Ihe DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

Dr. Dobyns Conducts |
Y. M. C. A. Campaign. ;:

Speaks to Numbers of Students
on Topics ef Personal Work,
Bible Study and Missions.

“t have three hobbies—Bible study,
personal work, and Foreign Missions,”
declared Dr. W. R. Dobyns, of St. Jos-
cph, Mo., in his sermon here last Sun-
day. For the past week Dr. Dobyns
has been conducting the Fall campaign
ut the Y. M. C. A., and his talks have
centered around these three topics.

The question of Bible study he has
discussed at morning prayers, and has
pointed out that this is the niost up-to-
date, most interesting book ever written.
Although it was never intended to teach,
science nor tu record history, still, says |
Ir. Dobyns, it. never makes a scientific |
statement but what it is crue, and many ;
of the recent discoveries of archeologists
have resulted from their tollowing the
directions contained therein. As to the
inspiration of the Book, there can be no
doubt, he says, if one will but give it a
thorough study. And the arrangement
ul the books, while’ ‘not inspired, were
shown to be Providential.

For the special evening services Dr.
Dobyns has laid strong emphasis on the
necessity fur personal Christian work.
In avseries ot forceful. earnest, taiks to]
a large number of the student budy he
has shown that the members of — the

church are a “cloud of witnesses” whose |

duty it is to give tesamony. And not
only that, bue with numerous telling
Hlustrations and practical suggestions he}
has shown how this testimony can and
should be given, and how that the great-
est work of the church is accomplished
through the personal contacto: man!
with man.

_ he third topic, that of foreign mis

sions, Dr. Dobyns reserved tor his ser-
mon on Sunday morning. In a clear,
interesting, masterful way he outlined
the work abroad and showed: the. very
great need for more laborers in the field.
This is not only a vast opportunity, he
said, but it is a responsibility. “Phen
with a most eloquent appeal ta the men
of the South, the sons ot noble sires who
have never vee been found wanting in
aime of need, he laid this responsibility
at the door of the students of Davidson
College, beseeching, them to meet it
squarely and fairly.

EguaJly beautiful and impressive was
Dr. Dobyns’ sermon in the evening on
‘Answered Prayer.” With — touching
lhustrations from the dealings of a lov-
ing parent with a child he shoived that
God always answers. the prayers of His
people, though sumetimes the answer is
deferred. Thus it was that Moses’
prayer to be allowed to cross over into
the promised land. though apparently
lnanswered, was but deferred until a
more suitable time. And fifteen hun-
dred years later—which after all is but
a day and a half according to the way
God reckons time—this praver was an-
swered at the scene of the Transfigura-
tion.

The meetings clesed with the service
Tuesday night. and those in charge are
well pleased with the results, feeling
that the message which Dr. Dobyns
brought will nor suon be forgotten.

X

GOLDEN ASSISTS |
IN MEETINGS.

The Davidson student bodv has been
glad to welcome W. S. Golden (713)
back on the Hill for a week. Golden

(Continued on page 4)

Harding.

Ihave revealed other parts, while the skull
itself was in a pertect state of preserva

TOWN ITEMS.
> * *

_ The White Drug Store has been com-
pleted and is now open to general trade.
This is the third drug store for David-
son. ‘The two stores that are being built
next to the White Drug Store are to be
used for a barber shop and a clothing

establishment.

“Mrs. M. G. Fulton,
away for some time, is
soon,

who has been
expected home

Among the Charlotte motorists who
toured up Thursday were Misses Har-
riet Orr, Sarah Mosely and Adelaide
Mosely, and Messrs. McAiister Carson.
I’. E. Jones and Woodrow MéKay.

4

Mr. FL. ‘Toney, of Columbia, 5. C..

was a visitor here Sunday.
. *

Mr. Clark Minter arrived here Sat-
urday, where he will be for some time,
before continuing his studies in chemis
try.

;

Dr. and Mrs. A. C. Brenizer. of
Charlotte, spent Sunday here with Dr.

DL MAS DISCOVERS
HUMANS SKULL.

A story. which has. been current
among Davidson students tor several
vears and which by some was considered.
only a myth or a tradition, was partially
verified Monday when W. A. Duos
descended to the base at the south col
umn oof Chambers and brought there:
irom A human skull.’

‘The descent, from the inner side of
one of the cylindrical columns of Chan
bers, which is about fifty teet high ana
about six feet in’ diameter, is a difh-
cult. teat. However, Dumas. with oa
rope fastened securely about his body
and with an. clectric searchlight: in’ his
hand, was safely let down by several Gt
his comrades, a thorough seareh for the
much talked-of skeleton was. made, and
a skull, the only pare of a skeleton that
was visible, was brought to the top.

The story, ax aften* related by the
students, is that a whole skeleton was
dropped into the column. ‘Phis version
of the story, however, must be erron
eous, because had a whole skeleton been
dropped into it, a thorough search would

tu et

tion.

That the skull was deposited there by
some student of the North Carolina
Medical College when that institution
was located at Davidson. there can be

but little doubt, but as to rhe exact time

and the circumstances nothing definite
is known. But no doubt there is some }
Davidson alumnus, now high up. in the
medical profession, who hoids the key to
the complete unraveling of the source of
this storv. Sr such there be he has an
opportunity to satiate the curiosity of
many Davidson students,

A close examination of the skull sews
thar it had been exhaustively studied in
the dissecting room. It had been divided
laterally into two nearly equal parts.
both parts showing visible evidences of
the dissecting knife. Its thickness would
indicate that it is # negro’s skull.

This story is made even more interest-
ing by reason of the fact that it is the
source of an excellent poem in last year's
anual entitled ‘Archibald Jones.” “The
skull which Dumas has found belongs
to the “Archibald Jones” of that poem.
It should be read the second time with
keener appreciation..

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 21, 1914.

BASKET-BALL.

With the completion of the changes
in the gymnasium, which give more floor
space and better opportunity for play, an
increased interest in basket-ball is notice-
able both in the teams and in the student
body generally. ‘The rivalry has become
keener and the rooting shows that the
old-time Davidson “pep” has again en-
tered into this branch of our college ac-
tivities also.

Practice began about two weeks ago
when captains and managers were select-
ed and calls were issued by the various
classes for candidates. “The regular
schedule opened on last Friday, October
10, when the Freshman and Junior
teams met. ‘Phe Fresh proved a surprise.
tor, with the score against them at the
beginning of the last half, they fought
steadily uphill and won out by a score of
43-15. This game was followed after
an interval of about half an hour by the
game between the Seniors and Sophs, in
which the former won casily 23-11. On
Monday the Fresh and Seniors mixed it
up fast ‘and furiously during the whole
of-their game. At the conclusion of the
first half the score stood 11-10 in tavor
of the Seniors. In-the second half, how-
ever, the Freshies duplicated their feat
ot Friday's gamé, and succeeded in over:
coming this lead and then forged ahead.
Vhe gare ended in another victory tor
them by a count of 23-14.

After half an hour's interval the Soph
Junior game took place. In his contest!
the Soplis gradually piled up a -comtort
able score until the last few minutes of
play. At this point the. juniors made a.
remarkable spurt’ and thitigs “began te
look dark for the Saphs. “Phe whistle
‘Slew however, before the Jong dead ot
the Sophs could be overcome, and ther
were returned the victors, che scare be
ing 28-24.

‘The standing as aoresulr at these
games is:
Freshmen 1.000,
Sophs sa0
Seniors 500
Juniors Lea ee 000
The full) schedule comprises twelve

games, the concluding one to be plaved
on November 6. “The results of these
first games have been decidedly favar
able to the Fresh quintet. for they have
the heaviest and tallest team in the con
test, and at present appear to have a
shade the better of the others. “Fhe Sen
ior team is well balanced, has plenty of
snap and spirit, and will, without doubt,
make things lively for the other contend
ers. “The Sophemores have a Tight team
as compared with the others, but thes
inake up for this in speed. “Phe nerson
nel of the Luniar team is practically: the
same as last vear’s 16 five, and they aure
avain putting up a.good article af basket
ball.

-tudging from the standard of play,
which has been set in the games alreads.
decided, the remaining ones cl) be well
worth seeing and will be hotly contested
throughout. It is ta be boped that the
students themselves will back — these
teams and help to build up sa goods
snapnv, fast, Varsity five io represent
Davidson in some inter-collegiate games
this Plies are already being
made for three or four games to be plac-
ed on the Hill and several at other col-
leges.

Seasan,

Good news, ves. a real surprise, will
he made known to everv Davidson stur
dent in a few davs. Watch Tare Dav.
IDSONIAN, second column.

Why not go to see the Citadel game?
This will most probably be the hardest
and ‘most evenly contested game played
in the South this Fall. “Phis is straight
talk.

NO 7

Citadel Meets Davidson;
Charlotte, October 24.

Citadel Reports a Strong Team
and Good Game Is Expected.
Davidson Confident.

It has been severai years since the
Citadel and Davidson have clashed to-
gether in foot ball, but for many years
these teams have been rivals. “The
Citadel this fall, so reports given on
good authority say, have one ot the best
teams which that institution has ever
put out, and that statement’ means a
great deal, for the Citadel has had some
strong teams in the last half-dozen years.
Je will be a hard tought ‘game from
start, to, finish. “Phe financing of the
game is in the hands of tie Charlotte
Athletic Association, which was formed
several weeks ago.

The probable Citadel line-up will be
as tolluws: Bolton, Leo: Jeffords, Lt.;
Alexander. lage: Tludgens, co: Seaffe,
rant Sheppard, rte: Gili a.e.5 Folger
(Capt). nhib.: Cogswell, Lh.; Switzer,
tho: Weeks, quarter, ‘Vhe particular
stirs at this -apprepgation are Weeks.
Folper, and Switzer, and to see them
play is worth traveling miles, and. the
price Ot admission itsell. Vo stop theny
the “Red and Black Machine” has
hard task. Booth, one ot the studenss
whe came ta Davidson trom tre Citidei,
says that the Citadel has a) wondertul
‘and powerful team.

DAVIDSON WALLOPS
WOFFORD 86 LO 0.

Davidson 86, Wofford 6. so the result

of last Saturday's game reads. “Phe
“Red and Black Machine” of Coach
betzer showed marked improvement

fover the previous Saturday with New
Sberry. | Going inta the pame with the
fold) Davidson fighting spirit, Davidson
took the Wafford team off its teet.
Vhoueh this is Wotterd first vear at
‘inter collegiate foot ball, vet for quite a
inumber of vears they have had class ‘toot
Thal. “Vheir team is a promusing one, tor

Although more or less “preen” and ines

perienced, the material looks good and
Hall mast) probably be developed — by
‘Head Coach McKay and his assistant,
“Bip” Malky ere the: season is over. ‘Vhe
~Davidsen team had little difieuley in
jscoring, and worked aman plas. “Phe
‘interference was of Superior hiss, and
mans long runs featured. the game.
(Wofford was slightly at a disadvantage
in having one or two disabled plavers.

| The lang drawn out) game, briefly,
went as follows: Davidson won the toss
and received the kick-off. Atter a’ play
or two Laird made the first real. gang
munning, for 25 yards around end, and
after several pains Wofford got the ball,
hut faded to gain even a vard on three
dawns, and the ball was in) Davidson's
hossession, ater a punt out at beunds.
Laird gained a. Walker 6, Laird §
vards. and then Walker scored the first
touchdown in 6 minutes of play. Ade-
iKinnon kicked goal. McKinnon kicks
aff, Melvin advanced 5 yards, and on
second pass, no one bemp present to re-
ceive the pass, Austin recovered and
scored the second: touchdown. MeKin
non kicked goal. After several advances
and gains Walker went through the line
ts vards fer the third touchdown, and
for third time McKinnon kicks goal.
Davidson 21, Wofford o.

‘The second quarter showed Davidson
in still better form. Beautiful ‘inter-
ference was given the runner on every
play, and many forward passes were

(Continued on page +)

See Moose, the Photographer, in Old Library Room! Here All the Week
