The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 14, 1914.

NO 6

Y. M. C. A. Conference'Book-Lovers’ Club Holds Marshals Elected by Two|Davidson Defeats New-

Held at Elon College

Many Students Present From Chief
Colleges of the State

On October 7-12, 1914. delegations
from all the North Carolina colleges
and preparatory schools met at Elon Col-
lege. N. C.. for conference concerning
Y. M. C. A. work. Delegations were
present from the dollowing institutions:
The University. A. & ML. “Vrtnity.
Wake Forest. Guilford. Elon, Catawba.
Davidson, Winterville. Bowie's Creck.
Whitsette, and’ Me, Pleasant. David-
son. vas represented by the following
men: W. G. Somerville. (C.F. Ran
kin. P. B. Price. ML. A. Bogys. J. G.
Patton, Jr. W. C. Copeland. D. MM.
MeGeachy, P. D. Patrick and W. A
Dumas.

Throughout the conference the fire
hour was given to the study ot
Weatherford’s book. “Introducing Men
to Christ.” “The rest of the morning
was given to discussion of various phase
otf Y. M,C. A. work. “PHe first hour
of the afternoon session was devoted te
a general method class. Dr. Horne’s
“Leadership of Bible Study
was used as a text. “Vhe topic was made
very interesting by Dr. W. A. Harper.
President of Elon College. The — re-
mainder of the session was devoted to
the comparison of methods in the North
Carolina colleges. At night, an address
was given bearing on the theme of the
day. “The meetings were presided over
by Mr. FE. G. Wilson. State Secretary.

‘The conference opened Wednesday
evening with an address by President
Poteat, of Wake Forest, on “Modern
Dav -Heroism."” “Phe subject: was one
which is of vital interest ta college men,

and in the development of it Dr. Poteat-

upheld his reputation as a speaker.
‘Thursday the discussion was on the
general themé of “Bible Study.” ht wa:
led by Mi. E.G. Wilsons Mer GC
Huntington. Secretary for the Curo-

linas: Aly. Brockman, General Seere: |

tary at the University of Virginia: and
Dr. W. A. Harper. Dr. WL PL. Law-
rence, Dean of Men at Elon. gave an
interesting address on “Phe Bible and
Literature.” At the eventing session Dr.
‘Thos. Amick, Professor of Mathematics
at Flas, ooke on Phe Bible in Mod
ern Life.”

Friday the general theme was “Mis 4

sions.” “Phe leaders were ATr. Frank
Graham, General Secretary at the Un
‘versity. of Narth Carolina: Mr. Chas.
G. Hounshell, ‘Vraveling Secretary of
the Student Volunteer Movement; and
Mr. Brockman. Dr. J. O. Atkinsoa:
pastor of the, Elon College church, talk-
ed on “The Biblical Department and
College Bible Study." At the evening
service Rev. C. G. Hounshell made a
telling appeal for volunteers to the tor-
eign field. It was followed by a meeting
of the Volunteer Band. in which three
men declared their intention of devoring
their lives to service in foreign fields.

The theme on Saturday was “Social
Service.” “This was ‘Weatherford
Dav.” Dr Wearhertord needs no *y-
troduction to the men at Davidson. He
took up the different phases and methods
of social problems! and stressed the negro
life in the South. He made a strong
appeal for our work at the Blue Ridy«
Summer School.
_ At the evening service Dr. Weather-
tord told of the condition and needs of
the Southern negro. His talk was a
revelation.

Sunday's topic was “Evangelism.”
The college courteously suspended Sun-

(Continued on page. +)

Dr.

Groups”

Interesting Meeting

With the return of Mrs. AL ML.
Young. the president, and of Mrs. FV.

W. Lingle. who have been away for the with the election ot marshalls.

Literary Societies

The regular meeting of both literary
societies Monday morning was taken up
In both

summer, interest was renewed in the isocieties many men were nominated tor
Book Lovers’ Cluh, which held its third, positions as ‘assistant marshals. but a
meeting of the vear at the home of the precedent was broken in the election ot
ichiet marshal. who comes trom the Fue

president last week.
Vhe line of study for the year

ix!}menean society this wear, in’ that onh

“Modern “Phought in Literature and one man, b. W. Price, was nominated.
Art.” and the topic of the Tast meeting} Mr. Price was nominated by J.P. Wil-

was “Vhe Best: Sellers.”

the discussion jliams. who gave three qualifications tor

centering around “Diana at the Green a.chiet marshal, that he should be a good
Vann.” CWhen ‘Thoughts Will Soar’ ladies’ man have a commanding persen-
“Devil's Garden.” and “When Ghostrality. and have executive ability. and

Meets Ghost.”

HIGH SCHOOL ELEVEN DI.
FEATS STATESVILLE,

showed how these qtialifications were
embodied in Mir. Price, “This nomina
lion was seconded by [. K. Hobson, and

‘there being no other nominees for the

office, Myr. Price was elected by accla

Coached only by themselves, but with: mation.

a--knowledge of teot ball imbibed
through living all their lives in’ a col-
lege town, the Davidson High School
hovs met Frank Brady's coached ‘High
School team at Statesville last Saturday

of 18 to 6.
Statesville’s team looked husky and
formidable. but a tew minutes ot play

idson “Rabbits.” A line buck and a 30
vard end run by Hutie Brown, after the
Statesville boys had been held for downs,
brought the first touchdown, Sam Brady
missed goal by. two. inches. “Phe next
two reuchdowns come ino the second
quarter, 10 and 20-vard = gains — being
made every time. Brads. never failed to
make a heavy gain thredgh the line.
while. Hotie and Douglass Browit shat
around ends. “Chick” Cathey caught
three gaod passes, one being tor a touch
down, “The dast touchdgwn was made
by bat.

In the second halt. the Staresvaillers
while on the defensive mostly. braced up.
and held two or three Gmes with the
ball on their 3 vard line. Cince thes
vot hold of the ball, and pulling bt
beety. ‘Eurner out ot the line aea the
backfield, shoved him down ‘the neld for
a score. He was the onty real ground
gainer for Statesville, though Bristol, at
quarter, was fast and heady.

“Pat Rabson. a coming Keesler, ran
the ream in fine shape. Cathey and
“Bobby Alexander were fast and ever
on the job at end. In the dine. Foster
in center, Carl Cather and Pratt at
guard, and: George Robson and. [oller.
tackles; all plaved well. The bach
fine work has already been mentioned.

Capt, Douglass Brown hopes ta ar-

at the college. and the “Rabbits” shouic
give the sub-subs a lively scrap.

TOWN VEEMS.,

Mr. and Mrs. Ld. Mitchell, 01 Ashe-
ville, have been visiting. their son tor the
past few days, who received an injury on
the athletic field last Saturday.

eo @« ¢

Among the Charlotte visitors who mo
tored up for the Newberry game were
Misses Ella Mosely, Annie “Vahaferro.
Aleen Burt. Abauail Alexander and
Elizabeth Alexander. Estier | Springs
and Agnes Blanding: Messrs. MeAlister
Carson, KE. Q. Pharr. Harvey Flowell,
Berriam Graham. Eli Springs and Geo,
Howell,

a « 7

Mr. F. W. Waketield. of Charlotte.

was a visitor here Sundav.
-” * *

Mrs. C. A. Monroe. of Hickory, N.
C.. is visiting Mrs. J. M. Douglas tor
the week.

and walked away with thent to the tune!

showed the superiority of the little Dav,

range a game soon with the fourth team

Nominations being in order tor assist-
ane marshals, W. G7. Morrison was
nominated by W. AL McIlwaine, who
enumerated his qualilications as a ladies’

man. one used taecdeporting himselt in]:

public, and a good worker in society.
This nomination was seconded by W..E.
Williams. Lex Klattz was next noni
nated by G. W. Gignilliat, J. oF. Faw
seeonding the nomination, bk. W. Price
nomianted F. EL. Smith, speaking ot him
asa South Carolina gentleman. W. ML
Shaw was next nominated by AL J.
Shirley. the nomination being seconded
by MEL G. Boswell) Wo Yo Savad nest)
nominated Rov Perry, 1. We Sane see
onding the nomination, Earl) Rowland
nominated We VL MedTlaaine, Co MM
Gibbs seconding the nomination and
adding a few more words of recommen
dation to the society an view of Air. Me-
Iwaine’s wark in the soctetv. fC.
Patton was nominated be Koy Perty.
AW. AL. Shaw. seconding tre nomination,
J. P. Withams then nominated 1... .\.
Alallen tn wards of high commendition
DD. PL MeReraver seconding the nomina
tion.

Messrs. Melhvaine. Morrison, Vhiedl-
en and Perry were elected by dhe first
ballot and adjourned to Colonel see
field’s, whither Alt. Price had alreads

j preceded them,

wice-president,

The society: then went inte the clee |

Y

tion of officers for the second tern.
Messrs. Altred Scarborough, WW. MM.
Shaw. Ce Mie Gibbs and dies Klatt,

were nominated tor president, but at lis
request Abr. Shaw's name was with
drawn, Abr. Searborough was elected
on the first ballat. and made oa short
speech in which. he expressed his desire
wo serve the suctete ta the best or tis
abiliiv. | Messrs. BTL South We. Gi.
Morrison, b. A. Viutlen, fp. PL Witham
and |. Gi. Patton werr neminated far
i Mr. Williams being,
elected ower Alb. Smith on the second
ballot. B. FL Hlagead. 1. Po MleBray
er, R. W. MeKay and D. W. Lane
were nominated for secretary. Afr. Nic
Kay's name. was withdrawn at his te
quest. however. Mr. Hagood was elect
ed by a majority on the first ballot. F.
W. Price and W. ob.) Williams were
nominated ror reviewer, MI. Price being
elected.

In the Philanthropic society, U.S.
Alexander nominated F. 1. Harkey tor
the position of marshal as a ladies’ man
and a conscientious worker. C. H.
Rowan seconded this nomination. “TV. 1D.
Sparrow was next nominated by J. U.
Carter, who refused to eulogize him op
the ground that he was not dead. “Vhis
nomination was seconded by W. C.
Rourke. oR. UV. Finles was then nomi-
nated by N. P. Farrior as a man who

always did his duty, H. W. Ormand sec-
(Continued on page 4)

berry 22 to 7

Newberry Fights Hard But Is Out-
played in Last Half

On last Saturday Davidson deteated
Newberry College in the second halt.
Reports sent out mom: Newherrs prev-
ious to the day ot the game had said
that they were coming up to take the
Preshytenian's “seaip’ bach with them.
Indeed, it was a team that had lets of
“pep.” and it was’ also a team of tine
inaterial. lust probably then average
weight would have overbalaneed that ot
Vhete. were several plavers
inthe Newbern tean who will compare
with any who have plaved against Dav-
idson in vears. One ot these was Capr.
MelLean, whoa twa seasons ago plaved.
with Brown t aversin. in Connecticut,
his home being tn Ohio: The. other star.,
was Ashbault. who weighs about 200.
with.evers Gbre muscle. and full of
He was inevery play, and was a
Vhis pair of New
herr ’s team plav a.class of ball that will
stand aut in any oontest.

In the first halt the “Red and Black
Machine” was not ored up, or probably
aospark plag. ar cay wheel was loose.
It was not unt the sécond half that
things bepan to work, and then thev
dav autchassed Newberry in both affens-
ive and defensive wok. “Phe inability
te ver started in the first halt was due to
three things. first. tt was most probably
a reaction from the drilliant yame plaved
d@amst Clemson the previous Saturday :
second, several at the regular line up

Davidson:

nerve,
power to the team,

avere out of the eames and third. New

herry's strength was a tremendous sur-
prise,

Inthe first quarter Newberry’s husky
teand started off with a hig rush as Clem
son had done The “Bleasites” had sev
eral strony, fast backs who skirted the
ends and ploughed the line for youd pains
iy the first few minutes of play. Near the
end ot the first quarter Swanton, New
berav's hig left half back. after a ‘beaut
tul dash for.2§ aards. crossed for the
first time this season Davidson's goal
line, Coal. was kicked registering 7
points for, the visitors, Fram that time
to ahe end ot the Grst bralt the ball sea
sawed, being ucar the middle ef the field
most at the time,  Newherrs ta the sec-
ond quarter worked ‘successtul -everal
fore ard vases and Line hucks.

The tables girned in the second hialf,
whee Davidson’. fighting spirit revived,
VicKinnon who had previously been an
the line with a sheht iniury, went in,
and an the nest play intercepted a for
ward pass and speeded for so vards for *
» tobchdewn. and kicked. voal. After
this the line strerethened, and time after
time threw Newherre for a Jess while
Watker. Laird. Black VicKinnon
were making consistent vains, Weth the
hall on the iorard McKinnon
made a heaurtal place kick. Soon after
Walker and Laird each made a touch:
down, bute noe goals were kicked. Fer
vers team sens new cunning ino perfect
order, and shawed their superiority over
Nevherry on every plav.

The bright and shining stars for New
herm were Cont Melean  Ashhaalt,
Svwearton and Baker. For Davidsan. es-
necially in the second half. Walker,
Keesler, McKinnon, Laird and Capt.
Howell nlaved a fine game.

The line-wp was as follows:

"(Continued on page 4)

and

line,

See W. C. Rourke, 67 Chambers, Before You Buy Your Pennants
