The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

Peace Contest Will
Be Held In December

Preliminaries For State Meet Will
Be Interesting.

A preliminary Peace Contest for those
who are competing for the honor of rep-
resenting Davidson at the State Peace
Contest will be held in Shearer Hall at
the first convenient date following Sen-
ior Speaking, probably Saturday night,
December 5. The State contest will be
held this vear some time in January, be-
fore the State Legislature, at Raleigh.
Because all efforts to bring about world-
wide peace have seemingly been stayed
by the present European war, the contest
this vear, as far as the variety and the
novelty of solutions which will be offer-
ed for the universal peace problem are
concerned, promises to be unusually in-
teresting.

“MRS. LINGLE’S RECEPTION.

On last Thursday afternoon between
the hours of 4 and 6, Mrs. Thos. W.
Lingle gave a delightful reception in
honor of a number of visiting guests.
The house was beautifully decorated in
chrvsanthemums and autumn leaves,
and everything for the occasion was in
perfect order. Delicious refreshments
avere served in the dining room.

The guests of honor in the receiving
line with Mrs. Lingle were: Mrs. Fd-
ward Kidder Graham and Mrs. Joseph
Hyde Pratt. of Chapel Hill; Mesdames
Lockwood Jones. James Eugene Reilley.
Charles C. Hook Gordon Finger, and
Miss Mary O. Graham, of Charlotte:
Mrs. B. F. Long, Mrs. Edward Land

and Miss Orr. of Staresvillé: Miss
Warburg. of Asheville: and = Mis:
Seuther. of St. Louis, Mo., sister of

Mrs. Lingle. A large number of ladies
from the town were present.

Presiding over the bunch howl were
Micses Hood and Payne. while in the
dining room Misses Hattie Thompson.
Maude Vinson and Tulia Tohnson serv-
~ ed coffee and chocolate. The reception
was one of the most delightful ever
given in Davidson.

TOWN ITEMS.

Miss Van Patton. of Portsmouth,
Va.. who has been visiting Miss Marv
Young for the past two wecks, returned
to her home Monday.

Mr. W. E. Crozier. of Baltimore.

was a visitor here Friday.
* * *

Rev. C. E. Raynal. of Statesville.
spent Monday in town, working in the

college librarv.
al *

Three of the young ladies of the
town who are off at college spent last
Sundav here: Misses Bonnie Shelton.
from Elizabeth: Misses Myrle Booe and
Sarah Wooten. from Queens College.

a . a

Guerdon Faster ics at home on a visit.
wv ar 4

Rev. Leenard Gill. Sunt. of Home
Missions of Mecklenburg —Presbvterv.
occupied the pulpit ar the Presbyterian
church Sunday in the absence of Dr.
Richards, who bas been away holding a
week of meetings.

Under th direction of Dr. Arbuckle. j

a live Bovs’ club has been organized at
one of the mills.

All town articles will be published if
‘phoned to Mr. McDonald. at the Pow-
er house.

McKinnon, full-back

Two of Fetzer’s Team Who Played Great Saturday Against U. of S. C.

The “Red and Black iviachine™ by
defeating the University of South Caro
lina 13 to 7 last Saturday in Columbia.
added another laurel to its long string
of victories.

‘The game was hard and furious
throughout. In the first half the Dav:
idson team did not play up to the form
that has been displayed in previous
games this fall, and not until the opening
of the third quarter did they get in their
regular stride. ‘he advance of the
offense in that period was terrific and
brilliant. and the “Gamecocks” seemed
helpless before: its advance.

On account of the game not being

started until 3:30, an overcast sky
Lhrought «carly darkness, and 1m the
fourth period, when it was an absolute

impossibility to follow either the ball or
the runners, the game was called with
six minutes to play, with Davidson in
possession of the ball. “Phe field) was
mostly sandy, and muddy in only a very
few spots.

The outstanding features of the game
were the brilliant plaving of Fetzer's
team in the third quarter when it struck
its “natural gait.” and the forward pass:
ing game of. the “Gamecocks” during
the entire game. Carolina tried twenty:
six passes, only cight of which succeed-
ed, totaling ninety-six. vards. Davidson
tried nine forward pasces, five of which
were successful.

For Davidson the defensive plaving

LEM -Yinnae and the offensive work of | line.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1914.

Davidson Defeats Gamecocks
In Close Contest on Wet Field

Carolina Scores on Long Pass in First Half But Presbyteriaus Come
Back With Smashing Offensive and Win 13 to 7.

Brack, Half back

The Gamecocks found the Davidson
line a stone wall, and the very few times
it was charged it was witi~ a loss to
Carolina. Carolina was outylassed in
every way and the Davidson team show
ed up far superior, especially in the third
quarter, when it came to itself.

Plaxico scored the lone touchdown for
Carolina after a forward — piss.
Walker scored first for Davidson in the
same manner, after the ball had been
marched up the field. After a> similar
journey, McKinnon carried the second
score over. In the first four minutes of
plav Davidson from go-vard line tried a
field goal, but the wind blew the ball
aside. In the second quarter, with ball
on Carolina's 3-vatd line and twa downs
to make a score, a touchdown — failed
Carolina was placed within striking, dis
tance of Davidson's goal by a punt by
McKinnon which went only to yards
before going out of bounds. The ball
was wet and hard to punt. “The pigskin
was taken on the following routes:

When the coin was flipped Captain
Howell won, and clected to kick off.
Carolina defended the eastern goal,

First Quarter: On the kick-off Mc-
Kinnon made a perfect) short on-side
kick which Black gathered in before it
touched the soil and ran te Carolina's
28 card line. McKinnon gains 4. Black
is thrown for loss of 2. From yo-vard |
line field goal by McKinnon is blown ;
to side hy wind. Carolina’s ball 20-yard
Forward nassing begins at once

the Walker brothers. Black and Laird | by Carolina. ’ Stoner to Plaxico fails;

were spectacular al times.

center. plaved a tine defensive game.

Captain Heorvell plaved a brilliant game. , 4:
I AY id ;
The whole team’ ed on 45-vard line.

and eq did Anderson.

White, atl arother jails: Hevward 4 through line:

Hevvard punts go. Keesler returned
McKinnon puats 4s. Brooker down
Brooker no gain:

nlayed wonderfelly in the third quarter.! Perry thrown for loss by McKinnon:

The defeneive work ot the backfield andi Hexward punts over goal line,
end broke un Seautiful forward passes:

time after time.

Far Carolina Stoney’. cvork an nassing .

He is ane ot

forward pases savas vrent.
Plexico

the hect nascers, in the South.

| Heyward and Hill starred.

David
Walker, C..

con's ball, 20-vard line.

skirts end for beautiful run for 15 gauy. |

McKinnon adds 5 more. Black through
tackle gains 1; then 7; but Davidson

(Continued on page 4)

Davidson Scrubs

NO. 11

Defeat Horner

Charlotte Boys Lose 12-0 In Muddy

Fight Saturday.

On a field ankle deep in mud and
bathed in water the Scrubs defeated
Horner Military Academy 12 to 0. For
four short quarters the teams floundered
in the ooze and in a pouring rain which
made spectacular plays impossible and
confined the gains almost entirely to line
plunges and short end runs. [Every stage
of the game was marred by frequent
fumbles owing to the slick ball.

One of the features of the game was
the “pep” of the Horner Lads, who in
spite of odds and unfavorable conditions.
played a hard game and twice held the
Scrubs on the five-yard line.

Davidson's two touchdowns came in
the first and third quarters... Each time
thev failed to kick goal.

For Davidson the work of Hill was
the outstanding feature, while for Horn-

er the plaving of Orr and Pressly was -

of the stellar. nature. Line-up:

Substitutions —Davidson : Williams for
Law, Julian for Adams. Uorner:
Nance for Stanland, Short for Nance,
Vauehn for Cherry.

Umpire, Dro CoM. Wander; Ref-
eree, FB. 1. Booe; Head-linesman, Ives.
‘Time of quarters, 5 8-5°8.

BASKET BALL.

‘The Tuniors defeated the Sophomores
last week by the score of 19 to 7. This
makes the third game that the Juniors
have won in succession. The Sophs did
not score wx goal except in: the last five

minutes of play, when thev took a de-

cided spurt, but were unable to score
over three field goals.

The Freshmen defeated the Sophs by
a s8-to 16 victory. “The feature of the
game was the plaving of Childs for the
Fresh, who made jo of their points.

The Seniors defeated the Freshmen
by the close score of 23 to 21. “The
game was one of the fastest of the ses-
sion, and in the Jast half it looked as if
the Fresh would tie the score, but the
referee's whistle ended the — struggle
when one goal would have tied.

The standing of the teams now is as
follaws:

Won, Lost. PLC.
Vresh .. 4 2 667
Senior . z 2 .600
Tuniars .. . 3 3 .500
Sophs .. ' 4 .200

DR. SMITH HERE SUNDAY.

On next Sunday, Dr. H. T.. Smith,
formerly president of Davidson. and
naw president of Washington and Lee
University. will be in) town, and will
address the student body. Vhe time far
the meeting will be announced — later.
Dr. Smith is affectionately remembered
by the members, of the present Senior
class who knew him. and is almost as
well known to many who have not seen
him because of his wonderful wark in
building up Davidson. He will no doubt
he heard by a large audience.

Have Ben-Vonde Dry Clean Your Suit for Sr. Speaking--Only $1. See 10 Ch.

Davidson. Position. lorner.
Pharr oo... cee. Cece ee eee eee. Or
Paisley ooo... dae Mann
Whitesides . 2... lt... .. ... Alexander
Watkins ........ Lew... . Council
Hughes ........ Teese Stantand
Sayad thee cee eee) Cherry
Smith... . ne Hines
Law oo ee he Bovlin
Hill 2.0.2... Ihe eee. Pressley, .
Critz .....5. a | Pe Gray
Adams. ......066 fib... Morrison
