The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

Prominent Davidson
Citizen Passes Away

Mr. J. B. Cornelius died Saturday,
October 24, at his home in Cornelius,
heing in his eighty-secand year. He has
been one of the most prominent men of
the county for the last fifty years, and
was highly respected by all the people
in the community.

Mr. Cornelius was born in 1833 on
his father's farm, Iredell County, some
ten miles from Davidson. His parents,
Jesse and Margaret, never moved from
the old -homestead, and in 1888, their
son, the deceased, began cotton manufac-

--euring at Cornelius with Mer. R. J.
Stough. Later Charles Johnson, join-
ing with these cwo,.made’a strong trio
who made this venture at a most oppor-
tune time, when milling was mast protit-
able. Mr. Cornelius has lived in Dav-
idson for a number of years and was
always a kind friend and neighbor, a
man of indominatable energy, of marked
intelligence, considering opportunities,
but always very regretful of an’ incom-
plete education.

He was a modest man. of strong con-
victions and tindoubted integrity. A de-
voted member of the Methodist church,
though liberal in his views toward other
denominations.

He was very liberal in his gifts to
‘institutions of his own Church, and his
views in this respect are expressed by
his following statement : “The institu.
tions’ in. my own Church need help—
the girls and women especially —educate
the women for mothers to make the
home for the men.” So ever teeling
the responsibility for the wealth God
had given him. he donated $10,000. to
the Children’s Home in \Vinston, $22.-
boo to the Davenport College in Lenoir.
later donating the remainder of his en
tire wealth to this latter institution.

Mr. -Cornelius was buried on Satur-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 28, 1914.

‘Davidson Defeats Citadel

NO 8

Red and Black Machine

In Gruelling Contest 16-0) Meets North Carolina

‘The _ strong Citadel eleven from Keesler returned punts in a spectacular
South Carolina, flushed with a string of manner.
early victories, and confident of success For Citadel, Weeks played almost the
after holding the University of Georgia entire game—punting, passing, running
tu two touchdowns, met the Davidson i with the ball and tackling, until he fell
Red and Black Machine in Charlotte|at the end of the game trom: sheer es:
last Saturday and was deteated by the haustion. His running mate, Folger.
decisive score of 16-0. was out ot the game, giving Weeks

Ihe game was the first staged by the} more than his share: but he played bril-
Charlotte Athletic Association, and was|liantly and gamely to the very
excellentl managed. Despite the soggy | Cogswell, James and Wallace, in the
condition ot the field, both teams put backfield, and Hudgins, Sheppard and
up a fast game. ‘The Citadel team. | Jeffors, in the line, plaved a good game.
although overpowered, tought gamely to|” First quarter: McKinnon kicked to
the sound of the last whistle. ‘Fhe most {the ten-vard line. Weeks returned ball
remarkable feature of the game, promi {fifteen vards. Citadel was forced to
nent also in the Clemson game was the ;kick. Davidson kicked back to Citadel's
csuperigr endurance of the Red andy thirty yard line. | After four minutes of
Bhicks over their opponents. ‘Vhey ap ‘play, on a fake kick tormation, lett halt-
peared as tréesh or even tresher, in the >back Weeeks got the ball and ‘on: slow
last quarter, than in the first. . work, in’ passing a forward pass, Wile

Davidson's two touchdowns came as[tackled and stumbled. White. tor
a result of a recovered. fumble. in. the Davidson, recovered the ball. cand with
first quarter and ot straight foot ball beautiful interference, ran twenty five
in the last quarter. McKinnon kicked vards for a touchdown, Davidson fail
a field goal in the second quarter. At ed to kick goal. After the next kick off
no time during the game was Davidson's Citadel advanced the ball twenty yards.
goal in danger. Vhe Citadel resorted in) but. was penalized, and wax forced ts
the last half ively te forward Kick again, Afrer twe plivs MeRKinton
pisses and punting. , kicked fifty five vards behind Citadel’:

For Davidson, MeKinnon’s playing voal line. “The ball was see sawed ane
was the stellar feature. “The big  tull
back was in every play. On defense,
lime after time. he broke through the
line, and on offense, he always carried
the ball tor long gains. ‘His punting
was superb and his kick trom placement
split the goal posts wide.

Walker, Laird. Black and Keesler
beach played a fine game inthe backheld
The whole line plaved brillianth . with
‘Crayton, Howell and White) starring.

1

alesse ce cane
Sede CHE

twenty yard line.
Second quarter:
possession of the ball and after a few
minutes af play, MeKinnon wrepned a
heautitul kick from placement for thirty
five cards.
the teature tackle afternoon,

of the

of six vards. [eowas a great play. Dav

(Continued on page 4)

day, at 3 p.m. at Mr. Zion M. Fb. |

A great host
attended this
all) business

church, Cornelius.
friends of the deceased
funeral, and from respect
establishments were closed. .

Rev. C. M. Pickens conducted the
services, and among — those attending
from a distance were Dr. J. Be Cravens,
President of Davenport: Mr. W. L.
Sherrill, of Davenport College; Rev.
(Mr. Marr. of ‘Trinity, and Rev. I.

Myres, of Mooresville. ali of whom
spoke appreciative words of the de-
ceased,

There were a great number of floral
offerings from the many triends.

TOWN ITEMS.

Mrs. Thos. L. Lingle. chairman of
the Social Service Department of the
North Carolina Federation of Women’s
Clubs, has returned after giving a num-
ber of talks throughout the State. Last
Tuesday afternoon Mrs. Lingle address
ed the Women’s Club of Charlotte, at
the home of Mrs. Eugene Reilley. in
Dilworth. On Wednesday. at the invi-
tation of the High Point Women’s Club,
she addressed a large gathering at the
Elks’ Hall, speaking on woman's share
in social service. Mrs. Lingle has. re-
cently been elected vice-chairman of the
same department of the General Federa-
tion of Women's Clubs. ‘Vhis organiza-
tion holds its next regular meeting at
Portland, Oregon.

**

The Davidson High School toot bail
squad is expecting to meet the High
School of Winston-Salem at that city on
Thanksgiving. —

Dr. J. P. Monroe, of Charlotte, was
a visitor here Thursday.

*

off

DAVIDSON. COLLEGE DAY. BASKET BALL.

Davidson College, Dav will be o'
served this vear oon “Vharsdas. Oe ober
2y. There will be no chapel exercises
before breakfast. Recitations will sus
pend at rhsoo a.m. and: at bb ses the ,
chapel bell will ring for the assembly of
the students in Shearer Hall,

The feature of the morning's prograni |
will be an address by Henry A. Shep
pard, MLA., LL.D. class of °62. and
now residing in Baltimore. His subject
will be Gen. D. H. Hill. who trem
1853-4 was professor of Mathemitics |
and: Philosophy, and from 1855-8 pro:
fessor of Mathematics and Civil Engin
cering at Davidson. His body lies in
he Davidson cemetery.

Dr. Sheppard is a distinguished mao lof font ball practice. ‘Vheir present team
of letters, being an authoritveon bang sh [is light and they have been plaving fast
and the author of. several books, one of | ball, the work of Reese and Nesbet being
them a life of Robert bk. ee. He is especially noticeable.
now preparing a work on Gen, D. A. In the Senior- Junior game the former
Hill.: won by the score af 21 too. Vhe game

In a letter Dr. Sheppard expressed [was featured by rough plaving on both
himselt as very anxious to see the college | sides, and it can be classed as foot ball
again, after not visiting it since August.{more than) basket ball, “The Seniors
1872. The college has undergone many have a well coached team and are play-
great changes since he entered in 1858. jing: fast ball: the work of McDonald at
forward is fast and snappy. “The Jun-
iors have so far had hard luck and have
not seemed té play up to their standard.
The season. however, ts only half over,
and the Tunior team is determined to

rand the Juniors and Seniors. Bath
games were plaved “Phursday, and every
one who witnessed the struggles can
testify that ther were “same scraps.”
In the Soph Fresh game the first vear
men won over their oppanents by the
iscore of 29 ta &.
‘have shown up better than anv of the
vother teams. They have the. heaviest
team and play well together, — Henge-
veld. Howell and Worth fave been
playing star ball, “Phe Sophs are vers
much handicapped. by nat having Sun-

Mrs. A. Bo Reese, Miss Margaret
Reese, Mrs. J. P. Patton and Mrs. C.
M. Carson motored up Wednesday from

Charlotte. - o- come back for the remainder of the

ceries. The work of Perv, Hovt and

Mr. Gus Leezer. of Mooresville,| Patton is very good. The standing of
spent Sunday here. the teams is as follows:

“7 * Won. Lost. P’e'tage.

‘The White Drug Company, whose] Fresh 2. 0.052 +. 3 ra) 1,000
new store has been just recently com-| Seniors 2 Ui 750
pleted. is now open and ready for busi-|Sophs .. . I 2 250
ness, with C. C. Goodrum as manager.| Juniors... oO 2 .000

last. | that it out for blood this year.

follows:

Spounds less thaw Carolina's, bur
have already shown by the games during
Suan after McKinnon made; the carly part of the season that they can
Hight like demons and are a stone wall
throwing the Citadel runner for a loss (when pushed on detense,

During the past week two games hie Davidson
been plaved, the Sophs and the Fresh.) trent stirrt

Vhas far the Keesh

merville. Laird, Critz and Ansley 00) heir fifteen-yard_ line.
the team, as they cannot play on account! pall jn the middle of the field in’ Ashe

Nest Saturday, October gt. at) Win-
ston-Salem, Davidson will tace the heavy
and powerful Gniversity ot North Caro-
lina eleven in the hardest: pame of the
season, tn playing North Carolina,
Davidson is going up against big odds.
North Carolina has the best) team) in
vears. Not only is it splendidly trained
by ane of the best coaching staffs in the
South, but it has shown by the scores it
has run up against opposing colleges,
‘The At-
tanta Constitution, in’ speaking ot Caro-
lina’s team, says: "Phey have a team
that looks far superior to any team that
has performed in Atlanta tor the last six
or seven years.”

In the Vanderbilt, game, no appreet-
able gains were made by the Comme-
dores thropgh the “Var Heels’ dine.
There are three “two bund red-pounders”
in the line. ‘Vandy, at centre, is a star,
hath on offensive and detensive. “The
hackfield, uhough very speedy. hardly
averages over §§0 pounds to the man.
Vavloe at halfback, and Parker at full-
back, show co the best advantage here,
both starring in offensive werk. “Payloc
is a pood sidestepper and fect runner. 7

Carolina's Hine up wall probably be as
Homewood. right end: Gay.
tieht guard:

rivht tickle; FL Jones,
left puard:

‘Vandy. center; Cowell,

the quarter ended with it on Davidson's! Ramsay, lett tackle; Winston, lett end;

Allen, quarter: ‘Pavloe. right half: Full

Davidson soon votter, lett half: Parker, full back.

fifteen
they

Davidson's line averages

Davidson's backfield average one han
dred and sixty five.

Carolina is aspiring tor the champion-
shin of the South, but all Davidson men
and supporters teel confident that when
David meets Goliath nest Saturday, the
machine will be in’ the fight
to finish.

ASHEVILLE SCHOOL WINS
FROM DAVIDSON SCRE BS

In a-tast, hard fought game in Ashe
ville last Saturday morning the David.
son Scrubs lost. ta the Asheville Schoo!
rztee. Davidson kicked off, Asheville
Feturaing to the thirty-yard line. A
line buck failed, then Asheville pulled
of a long forward pass jor the first
touchdown, but tailed to kick youl.
Davidson ‘received and was dosvned an
A pont put the

ville’s possession, and with a series of
end runs and another pass they advanced
to Davidson's eighteen: yard line. Gain
ing the ball an downs, Davidson kicked
out te the fifty-five yard line. Again
Asheville advanced ta the twenty-five
vard line, but Davidson held, End of
first quarter.
Davidson advanced the ball to the
forty-vard line, but failing to make dis-
tance the ball 4#ent over on downs and
Asheville rapidly carried it to David
con's five-vard ne. Vhen with a sue
cessful fake they hurled a man through.
the line far the second touchdown and
kicked geal. Davidson received and ran
the ball back ro the middle of the field.
where it rested at the end of the first
half. Score, Asheville 13, Davidson o.
In the second half Davidson came
back strong. ‘Thev received and — bv
many fierce cross bucks carried the ball
to Acsheville’s fifteen-yard line; but on

(Continued on page 4)
