—

4

VOL. 1

- The

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 13, 1914.

NO. 7

Alumni Reunions Com-/Town News of the/Future Development of'Base Ball Season Ends

mencement Feature.

Full and Interesting Pregram An-|Interesting Items.

ticipated fer Next |Week.

Among the prominent alumni who
are to be present at Commencement
are Dr. W. F. Faison (86), of Jersey
City, N. J.; Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D.,
Professor at Union Theological Semi-
nary; Rev. T. C. Whaling, D.D., Pres-
ident of Columbia Theological Semi-
nary; Hon. B. R. Lacy, of Raleigh, N.
C., who is State Treasurer of North
Carolina; Hon. Franklin McNeill, Cor-
poration Commissioner of North Caro-
lina for a number of years; Hon.
F; Stevenson, of Cheraw, S. C., and Mr.
H. A. Banks, who will accompany Sec-

Week.

Personal.

President Martin left Wednesdav for
Mount Ulla, where he made an address
at the commencement exercises of the
school. He also had a similar appoint-
men at Lexington, Fridav.

Dr. J. Moore McConnell delivered
an address at the closing exercises of the
Sanford High School last Tuesdav.

ry
The home of Mrs. wd&vinson has

.| recently been re-painted.
s * *

Mr. John McRae. of Charlotte, was

retary Daniels in the office of secretary.|a visitor here Thursday.

Rev. Palmer DuBose (’02), now on
a furlough from his mission work in
China, will also be present at Com-
mencement with his family. Mr. H. F.
Querv, President of the Class of 1909,
in a letter to Dr. Martin, has promised
be well represented,

that his class wil
at least twentv -of his class-mates having
already definitely informed him that
they are coming. Other classes will
also be represented, but nothing yet is
known definitely of the number.

Commencement will begin on Satur-
day, Mav 16, with the reunion of the
Literarv Societies. The Alumni orator
for the Philanthropic Society on_ this
occasion will be Rev. William E. Hill.
who graduated from Davidson about
ten vears ago, and is now pastor of th:
West End Presbyterian church, At
lanta. Ga. He is well known to the
students and facultv, having been «
prominent speaker at the seventy-fifth
anniversary of the College. Dr. Reed

Smith, Professor of English at the Uni- C

versity of South Carolina, wii! deliver
the Alumni oration in the Eumenean
Society. Dr. Smith, a prominent mem-
ber of the Class of 1a01, won t -
savist’s Medal in the Eumenean Society
in his Senior vear. After graduation
at Davidson. Dr. Smith finished his
covrce by taking a doctorate at Harvard

The Baccalaureate Sermon will be
preached bv Rev. Theron H. Rice, Pro-
fessor of English at Union Theologica!
Seminary and a prominent lecturer at
the summer conferences in Montreat.
With a man of such wide experience and
education to deliver the sermon, this is
expected to be one of the features of the

mmencement.

On Mondav the event of the dav will
be the Literarv Address delivered by
Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the
Navy. Mr. Daniels will be accom-
panied by his wife and his secretary,

Mr. F, W. Wakefield, of Charlotte.

was a visitor here Sundav.
* @ ©

Mr. Gus Leaser, of Mooresville.
spent a short while here Mondav.
** ©

The condition of Mrs. W. C. C.

Foster, who has been confined for the
past two weeks with a severe attack of
Lagrippe, has greatly improved.

* *¢ &

Miss Marv Young is‘ visiting friends
at Gastonia.

‘ *

There was an important meeting of

the Davidson School Board held last

Monday night, to taake plans for the

coming session.

e

. Misses Hood and Payne, _ together

with a few others, gave a picnic last

week which was greatly enjoved bv all.
* s ?

Miss Julia. Smith, of. Asheville, N.
‘., was a visitor for five days last week
at the home of Mr. L. R. Smith. While
here she spoke before the Ladie’s Mis-
onary Society, telling them of her
work in the mountains of Western
North Carolina. It was an interesting
talk, and thoroughly enjoved and ap-
preciated. wee ;

Mr. Allen Samuel Williams gave
two lectures before a small but appreci-
ative audience in Shearer Hall, Satur-
day and Monday nights. His subject
was. “The Truth About Snakes” and
“Adventures in the Tropics.” Mr.
Williams’ lectures were illustrated bv
stereopticon slides and live specimens.

DAVIDSON TO ENTER FLOAT
IN 20TH OF MAY PARADE.

Davidson College will be represented
in the celebration of the signing of the

Davidson.
'

Social and! Plans and Sites for New Buildings.

Landscape Gardner Coming.

Dr. Martin has had a blue print map
made of the College grounds showing
the location of the buildings, trees, etc..
and the different elevations and depres-
sions. Mr. Nolan, a landscape gard-
ener from New York, is coming down
in a short while to examine the College
grounds, and with the aid of this map.
to make certain suggestions about the
location of buildings, etc. Dr. Martin,
in’ this connection, said that the new
gymnasium would very probablv be be-
tween Chambers and the Athletic field,
and tennis courts would verv probably
be placed around it. If -anv new dor-
mitories are needed, they will be placed
to the east of Georgia dormitorv, in the
same row with Rumple. Watts and
Georgia. In case of the College ex-
panding to any great extent, Dr. Martin
said that buildings would be placed on
the road running “between Chambers
dormitory and the athletic field. Dr.
Martin is strongly in favor of a second

athletic field, a kind’of young men’s

play-ground, on which campus foot ball

and base ball’ may be played bv those’

who are not expert enough to go out
for the Varsitv, but who really need the
exercise more than those proficient in
the game. .

Dr. Martin has sent as an exhibit to
the General Assembly some copies of
THe Davinsonran, a map showing the
location of the twenty-four Davidson
men in Foreign Mission fields. and also
a blue-print map of the College grounds.

H. M. MARVIN AWARDED..
GRYPHON MEDAL.

The tnedal awarded each year by the
Order of the Gryphon to that member
of the Senior class who has done most
for the College, goes this vear to H. M.
Marvin? This honor does not depend
upon any one phase of College activity,
but is based upon excellence in studies.
athletics, society work, debating, and
various things wherein a man mav_ be
of service to his Alma Mater. When
all this is taken into consideration, the
award this vear seems most fitting, for
Marvin has represented the College in
two Inter-Collegiate debates, hesides he-
ing alternate on several others; he made
the honor roll for four years; he has
served most efficiently on the Student
Council; has. been an active worker in
the Fu Society, and has filled positions
on the executive committee of the Ath-
letic Association, his class and student

in Victory.

“Big” Mills of U. of S.C. is Driven
From the Bex.

On Thursday afternoon was witness-
ed the final game of the season, when
the “Red and Black Machine” wal-
loped the strong team from the U. of
S. C., triumphing over them 9 to 4.
‘Thus was the season closed in a glorious
victory.

The diamond was in the best condi-
tion of the year for a game, but at five
minutes of four, after both teams had
taken ‘their practice, dark clouds which
had been gradually approaching began
to pour down rain. It looked like the
game would have to be called off, but
by 5 o'clock the sun was again out, and
the game started one hour late. The
Gamecocks have always been friendly
but very keen rivals of Davidson, and
this adds much to the satisfaction over
the result of the final game.

For the last few vears it has been the
proud boast of “Big Mills that David-
son never had defeated Carolina when
he ‘was pitching, and moreover, that
thev never could. All before the game
he continued to tell evervone of his past. .
record and how he was going to repeat
it again that afternoon. But—in 1 1-3
innings he met his Waterloo, when the
Davidson sluggers, in a terrific batting
streak, drove the mighty Mills from
off the mound, getting 5 runs off of 5
clean hits—two triples, two doubles and .
a single. ‘Babe’ Adams was sent in to
his rescue, and pitched a fine game con-
sidering the fact that he had pitched a
1q-inning game the day before against
Guilford.

The scoring started off in the first
frame. Christenburvy was safe -on an
error, and was sacrificed to third by
Kluttz. Crayton then hit one to the
left field fenee for two bags. Brown
scored him with a triple, and “Dutch”
drove Brown in with a double. In the
second Somerville led off with a single,
was sacrificed hy Osteen and scored by
Christy on a_ three-bagger. Kluttz.
scored Christy on a sacrifice fly. Stough
scored one more in the third. Again in
the seventh the game was inched? Crav- °
ton got on first on an error; Stough
singled, and Elliott got a three-hagger,
scoring both and scoring himself when
a wild throw was made.

Due to the fact that the field was
very muddy, errors were very frequent.
Carolina scored four runs, and the ma-
jority of these were made after the ball
had been errored. Thev only registered
3 small singles off of Bill’s superb twirl-:
ing, and were at his mercy throughout
the game.

Mr. B. R. Lacy, an old Davidson man.| Mecklenburg Declaration of Independ- ; , .
Nothing is known of anv of the points/ence on the 20th of this month by en- body culations” we extend our hearty gee Rame was quick and snappy con-
Mr. Daniels yill bring out in his tering a float in the parade, which wi S. sidering the bad condition of the
speech, but judging by the man. we are/be the spectacular feature of the day. E. tinued o
certain the address will be good. ©. Pharr, who has charge of the prep.| HAY WINS FICTION MEDAL. (Continued on page 4)
On Monday night the Junior Ora-|arations, has secured a large covered van
torical Contest between the societies|and four-horse team. This will bel The results of the Fiction Contest/* * ‘(fe es
takes place. The representatives from|completely covered with red and black{declare the medal to have been won by . .
the Philanthropic Societv are J. E.jbunting, garlands and pennants. Sev-iF. J. Hay, Jr.. with his storv, “The * FOOT BALL SCHEDULE ‘*
Carter.N. §. Alexander and ]. W. S.Jeral members of the facultv, representa-j Hill Monarch.” Second place was given ° 1914. be
Gilchrist. The representatives from the|tives of the different classes, and mem-|to T. W. S. Gilchrist, with “My Star . —— . .
Eumenean Societv are F. W. Price, N.|bers of the Mecklenburg Club, will ride|of Hope.” & Sept. 26—(Horner at Davidson.) °
J. Tohnson and E. Rowland. in the float. The parade will form at Ott 3—Clemson at Davidson. :
' * . orehead street and will proceed up ct. 10—Newberry at_UVavidson.

On Tuesdav morning the | Tunior aotth von street. to. the Square,| ANNUAL STAFF APPOINTED. |» Oct. 17—Wofford at Davidson. *
men participate in this contest, three thence over the principal streets of . o Oct. 24—(U. of Fla., at Jackson- °
men Plected from the Senior speakers Charlotte. With all appointments now made, the : ville.) ; e
and three men having the highest stand- & There will be room for about twenty- Annual staff stands as fol ows: peaiter- : Oct. 31—U. of N. C., at Winston- :
ss : ve persons in the float, and anyone jin-cnier, . clilwaine; Business aiem. .
ing in their classes, The orem te wishing to ride in it should see E. Q.| Manager, J. F. Faw; Assistant Busi- : Nov. 7—Furman at Davidson. *

,selecte Senior speak sf. Pharr or J. E. Faw, at once. ness Manager, W. G. Morrison; Staff, : Nov. 14—U. of S. C. at Columbia. *
H. fay, C. rane in he the three ; ——__—__ live b 1 Ww. 5. Gilchrist. L. W, Klute, FW ; Nov. 26—Wake Forest at Char- ;

. ° ° . t costs some people a lot to live be-| Price, Earle Rowland, L. AA. ullen, otte.
men having the highest standing will be. cause their neighbors are afflicted with| 1. G. Patton. Tr.. J. L. Pavne; Art De-|® bd
(Continued on page 2) the borrowing habit. partment, J. eeee eee. “4

F. Good.

Subscribe Now for Next Year’s Davidsonian---$1.00
