VOL 2.

ve AVIDSON COLLEGE, D
Rally Meeting and Fresh‘Town News of

Reception Big Success.

Many Visitors Present. Stirring |Interesting items.

Talks and Addresses Made.

Following the custom of the college
or several years past the Y. M. C. A.
tendered the Freshmen a reception on
last Monday evening on the Library
lawn. Preceding the reception there
was a rally meeting in Shearer Hall.
Stirring talks. were made by some of the
students and faculty giving the new
men some idea uf the traditions and in-
stitutions of the college and introducing
them into the activities of the campus.

‘The address of welcome was delivered
hy Professor Currie, and was character-
“wed by cordiality and sound advice to
the new men. After welcoming — the

treshmen to the college. to the town, and |’

to the homes of the faculty. Professor
Currie touched on the various phases of
college life and cautioned all against the
danger of becoming one-sided by devor-
ing themselves to one thing too early.
He said that in view of present world
conditions the responsibility rested upon
the class of 1918 as never before to
make of themselves men, men who could
do the work if necessary of two or even
three men.

Following the address of welcome,
Alfred Scargorough, president of the
‘student body, explained briefly the hon-
or system and the democratic form of
self-government in vogue at Davidson.
After this Enoch Faw spoke of the pub-
lications of the college. saying that while
the Magazine was published by the lit-
crary societies, both. the newspaper and
the annual were dependent upon the
hearty support and co-operation — of
every member of the student body in
order to be a success.

“Chink” Wilkinson, in characteristic
style, spoke of the activities of the
campus, laying special stress on athletie:
and The Davidsonian. ‘The literary so-
cieties were next spoken of by Norman
Johnson, and his speech was a clear ex-
ample of the excellent training recéived
iy the organizations which. he repre-
sented,

Phe subject of “Pep™ was ably han-
dled by Ulman Alexander, and in i
short. snanpy talk he brought ginger in.
the meeting in a way which foretola
great things to be accomplished during
the vear.

No more able exponent of the subject
of athletics could be found on the Hill
than the next speaker on the program,
Lex Kluttz. whose subject was ‘“Ath-
letics—Bright Outlook.” He told of
the activity of the Alumni Association
and its excellent work in providing the
best coaching staff in the South. He
spoke of the need of the “New Davidson
Pep” founded upon the Davidson spirit.
which is famous especially throughout
the South and wherever Davidson men
are to be found. The matter of the
need for the hearty backing of the entire
student body was mentioned by him and
every man urged to buy a season ticket
at once and thus place the Association
upon a solid basis.

Professor Blythe. president of the
Alumni Athletic Association. spoke of
the support which the Alumni are ready
and anxious to extend to the college and
of the obligation which the student bodv
is under to show themselves worthy of
this interest.

“Chief” Mullen, in his usual happy
Manner introduced the faculty to the
new students in a wav which was not
only interesting to the men who have
Not yet become acquainted with the pro-

(Continued on page 4)

Week.

Personal.

The new drug. store that is being
built next to Armour Brothers is nearing
completion and will be opened to the
students within the next few days.

The enrollment of the locat graded
school, which opened ‘Tuesday, is about
160. Mr. Cummins, a graduate ot
Washington and Lee, is the new princi-
pal, and will be assisted by the same stati
as last year.

General Keesler, ot Greenwood,
Miss.. was one of the recent visitors.
toe
Mr. J. ‘V. Lucas, of Charlotte, was a
visitor here Friday.

Mr. John hk. Morehead, of Charlotte,
motored up Friday to witness foot ball
practice.

Mr. Lewis McDuffie, class of ‘13, of
Columbus, Ga., was a visitor here for
the past few days.

; .

Besides the return of our last year's
Co-Ed, the college rejoices to see that
our Co-E-ducational department has two
new students. “Vhey are heartily wel-
comed into our midst.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle has moved into
the Ellinwood home, next to Professor
Currie’s house.

Miss Myrtle Houston recurned on
Friday for a visit home.

Miss Maud Vinson's “Seminary” has
opened again with five young ladies in
attendance: Misses Catharine Worth,
Mary Parks Grev, Winnie Potts, Kirene
Hudson and Bertie Christenbury.

Miss Catharine Potts is recovering
rapidly now from a severe case of ty-
phoid fever.

Mr. Ed. Johnston (14). of the town,
will teach English this year in the Wash-
ington (N. C.) High School.

Mr. Andrews, the station agent, ha
bought the property adjoining Mrs.
Whitaker's home, and will move there.

oe &

David Worth, of the town, who has
been attending McCallie School, in
Chattanooga, has entéred college here
this year.

¢

Miss Pauline Seabrook is visiting her
cousin, Miss Mary Richards. She leaves
soon to enter Winthrop College.

Several town girls will go off to col-
lege this fall: Miss Mary Richards, to
Columbia Women's College; Miss Mil-
dred Johnson, to Converse; Misses Susie
Brady and Louise Campbell,.to the State
Normal in Greensboro; Miss Charlotte
Cranford, to Hendersonville; Misses
Myrtle and Floss Houston, to Asheville ;
Miss Frances Worth, to Winston-Salem;
Miss Bonnie Shelton will return to
Elizabeth College, in Charlotte.

J. Henry Smith, son of former Presi-
dent H. L. Smith, is visiting at the Rob-
son home. He is the same fun-loving
“Jammie,” but a much larger one now,
to his many friends in the town.

we

Dr. Richards returned last week from
a week's visit to Montreat.

oleted,

Bright Outlook.

Three Hundred.

September 3 brought a happy. jovial
bunch of old men back to the old college,
glad to be back “on the Hill," glad to
mect the fellows again. Along with the
old men came a promising bunch of
Freshmen, not so anxious to arrive, per-
haps, but with determination to make a
name for themselves here at Davidson.

The register shows a total enrollment
so far of 286 students; 110 of these are
Freshmen, 83 Sophs, 54--funiors, 36
Seniors, and 4 M.A. scudents. ‘his
number will be steadily. ‘increased. ‘as
Freshmen continue to come in, and sev-
eral old students are on the way, having
been delayed in Germany on account of
the European War.

Many improvements are noticeable on
the campus. ‘The campus is more beau-
tiful than ever before, new fixtures have
heen. added to Rumple Dormitory, Dr.

) Martin's hause is being remodeled, Dr.

TM. MeConnell’s house has been com-
Mr. and Mrs. Jackson have
moved into their new home, and the
Gemnasium will soon be improved.

Now that the men are becoming set-
fled, the varios collere vactivities are
opening with a rush. Bright prosnects
sre visible for athletics this vear. Coach
Fetzer is rapidly training. a promising
font hall squad. The tennis tournament
‘vill be held soon, and the fall) track
‘vork will soon be in full swing. The
Sook exchange rendered efficient service
enabling men to obtain second-hand
Sooks readily. ‘The Y. M. C. A. and
Niterarv societies will open their work
this week. and vreat things are expected.
The annual “Pep” meeting and Fresh
eeception, under the auspices of the Y.
M C. A... were held Monday night.

The outlook is indeed ‘bright: for the
nest successful year in the histery of the
rallece with such oa) Freshman clas
brimming with possibilities, and with the
old inen back, ready for work.

MEMBERSHIP RALLY
DAY NIGHT.

TTHURS

At 7:15 ‘Chursdav night: a. stirring
Membership Rally Meeting for the Y.
M,C. A. will be held) “There will be
1 few short and lively talks on the three-
fold motte of the Association, and the
relation of the ¥Y. M,C. A. to the Stu-
dent Body and the individual student.
All the old men and especially the new
men are invited and urged to attend the
meeting.

SENIORS ELECT OFFICERS.

At a meeting of the Senior class Mon-
dav so afrernnon. the follawing officers
were elected: President, Norman [ohn-
con; Vice-President, U. S. Alexander;
Secretary aed Vreaserer, W. M. Griffin:
Historian, C. M. Gibbs: Poet. J. W. S.
Gilchrist: Member Student Council, F.
W. Price: Class Mascot, Master Riggs
McConnell.

PAN-HELLENIC RESOLUTION.

At a recent meeting of the Pan
Hellenic Council the following resolu-
tion was unanimously adopted :

“Resolved: That no man shall be
initiated into anv fraternity before he has
successfully completed three-fifths of hi
required term's work during the specific
preceeding term.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., SEPTEMBER 9, 1914.

the College Opens With)Athletic Prospects Un-

NO 1

usually Bright.

Social and/Total Enrollment to Date Nearly | Excellent Coaching Staff Secured.

Other Athletic News.

Davidson has entered upon a new era
in athletics and the future is the bright-
est that we have had in years. “The foot
ball outlook is one which we can all feel
good over, and know that the team will
be one that will be a credit to the col
lege. Since the opening the old toot ball
men have been gradually returning.
Among them are Walker. Crayton,
Laird, Keesler, Watkins, McKay, Julian
and White, of last year’s Varsity squad.
Dr. Lingle's ship having returned, Me-
Kinnon and Anderson will be out in um
torm shortly, AL are glad to have back
two of year before last'’s Varsity men,
VanDevanter and = Pharr. Both will
greatly strengthen the seam. Captain
Howell will probably stay, but is unde-
cided at present. Christenbury will alse
probably be out. “The Freshmen ma
terial looks promising, and with the old
men we have to form a nucleus, the
coaches should develop a strong. team
fast.

Never before has Davidson had such
an array of coaches. ‘There is no doubt
of the fact that the staff on the field
Monday and ‘Tuesday afternoons cannot
be surpassed in the South. It would
have been impossible for the Alumni to
have secured any man in the United
States who would have fit so well inte
the place of athletic director and coach
as R. A. ‘Fetzer. Nelson Harris, of the
University of Virginia, is his most. ca-
pable assistant. Among the Alumni as-
sistants back are the following: Mr.
“Bil” McKay Fetzer is one of the most
capable coaches to be found anywhere,
and his presence on the staff for a few
days means a great deal to the team.
Among the others are Irving P. Gra-
ham, who has coached Riverside with
such success for the past two years; De-
Witt Kluttz; former Woodberry coach,
and now class coach at the University
of North Carolina. Dr. Hamilton Me-
Kay and D. A. Biggers are also out to
assist. Former Coach Simmons, now of
Charlotte, one of the best coaches David

son has ever had, has been asked, and

will most probably be up frequently te
assist. in. putting out a creditable team.
The college is glad to see them all, and
hopes many will follow in their lead.
The first big game will be with Clem-
son on our own ground, Last fall they
licked a game with us on their own
ground. This year Davidson must come
hack at them strong and hard. [t is
sure to be a hard fought contest when
the “Tigers” get here. The next big
game will be with the University of
North Carolina. A special train ~ has
been arranged to take the student body
to Winston-Salem, also a holiday will
most probably be given on that date, Oc-
tober 31. Let the byword be “On to
Winston. Victory for Davidson!"
North Carolina secured a scanty 6-0 vic-
tory over Davidson last season in the last
tee minutes of play on a disputed foul.
Thev have a strong team, no doubt, and
a high-priced coaching staff, but that old
“Pep” which has been revived here, like
Ranauo’s ghost. cannot be downed.
Newberry, Wofford and Furman. all
have unusually good prospects for this
fall, and indications are that these will
he hard. snappy games. The University
of South Carolina, and Wake Forest.
two of Davidson's old rivals, will have
«o he hotly fought.
- In regard to athletics, there is a new
feeling in the atmosphere. Yes! [t ix

(Continued on page 4)

See Wm. E. Williams before arranging for your washing
