The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON I. C., SEPTEMBER 16, 1914.

NO 2

Davidsonians Retur n'Bright Prospects for the|Town News of the|Foot Ball Squad Getting

From Abroad.

Exciting Times Experienced on Ac-
count of the War.

Five Davidson men, Messrs. Ander-
«wn, McKinnon. Shirley, Roddey and
Gignilliat, led by Dr. Lingle, sailed
trom New York. on aboard the ship
New York, on July 18, bound for a va-
ration trip abroad. After a bon voyage
she party landed at Southampton, Eng-
‘and, and from thence journeyed to old
Winchester, the old-time capital of Eng-
land. At this interesting old place was
wen one of the oldest and largest Ca-
thedals in the world built in the time of
the Romans. Perhaps the most interest-
ing thing about this old Cathedral is the
underground crypt there since the time
of the Druids. Here bubbles up a bold
spring, the water of which is used for
the purpose of baptism. In the crypt are
the tombs of earliese English kings, be-
tore the time of Christianity: In this
old Cathedral, Phillip of France and
Bloody Mary were marrigdy “As a strik-
ing. contrast to the solenfnity of this an-
cient pile, a gay and spirited modern
vame of cricket was in progress between
Eaton and Oxford. “he shouts of the
contestants echoing and. reverberanng
through the dark corridors of the old
Cathedral.

From Winchester the party hastened
to London, visiting Westminster: Abbey,
St. Pauls, ‘Phe Bank of England, the
‘Tower, etc. Much amusement was af-
iorded at Madam ‘Trousseau’s wax col-

lection when Shirley tried to buy his!

ticker trom a wax figure in appearance
exactly like the real ticket seller—so he
declares. Gignilliat was especially de-
lighted by a rousing Suffragette demon
“tration in “Vrafalgar Square, his com
rades with great difficulty restraining
hiny from making a speech, so enthused
was he.over the Pankhurst arguments.
After securing their bicycles. the party
spent ten enjovable days touring Eng-
land, making excursions ta many points
tif historical interest. At this time Mal-
colm Shirley must needs iourney over to
“Old Erin’ to visit his Trish “‘kith and
kin’? Here he fuond great excitement
and stirring patriotic demonstrations oc:
casioned by the Home Rule question.

After ten days the narty reunited, sail-
ed across the Channel, landing a’
Dieppe, France. Cvcling through Old
Normandy, often called “the most beau-
tiful country in the world, the party
visited many famous old castles and
ruins. From thence they journeyed to
the beautiful Tontainbleau; interesting
to all’ students of history as the place
where Napoleon abdicated. = Manv
things of interest were in the walls of
this old castle. such as Napoleon's bed-
room, containing the clothes worn by
the great Emperor, a lock of his hair.
and the priceless tapestry of those times.
Here were ceen also Marie Antoinette’s
room, and the rooms of the Papes.

Cycling on to Paris, the party found
that gavest of cities in holiday attire.
celebrating the French National holiday.
corresponding to our ‘Phanksgiving.
Nothing can surpass the gayety of Paris
on festive occasions. At every corner
one is stopped by merrv-go-rounds, Fer-
tis wheels, and gambling booths. Some-
une has said that ‘Paris begins to live
when night falls.” Then people who
have slept all day, rub their eyes, dress
in the height of fashion, and step out
upon the Promenade. to the lively tunes
furnished by the military bands, playing
all night long.

(Continued on page 4)

Annual.

Editor and Manager Needs Sup-
port of Every Student.

Except for the present financial de-
pression everywhere prevalent Quips and
Cranks tor 1915 has everything in its
favor to celebrate the twentieth anniver-
sary of Davidson annuals in proper style.
‘The staff has on it some of the most
original men in college, who are gen-
erally recognized for their ability in
writing, “Phere are also many men in
college. both old men and treshmen.
from whom the editor expects much help
and who have expressfd their ‘Willing-
ness to assist in every way possible.

The art staff has come back strong this
year. Russell Minter, Quips and Cranks’
mainstay’ for several vears, is taking his
MLA. and is better able than ever betore
to make the art department the best
feature ot the book. “1 P. Johnson and.
Giood are back, too. Both have done ex
cellent wark in previous years. |

‘The hearty support and co-operation
of the student body, both in subscribing
and contributing articles, poems or draw-
ings is.all that is necessary to insure the
complete success of Quips and Cranks
this year. Cash is coming hard with
everybody.! advertisers included. and
every cent will count more this vear thar
ever before. For this reason the man
ager is counting on the loyal support of
every man, and when he or his represen,
tative comes around tor their subserip
tion tet him have it with a tree hand.

Another way ot helping is by helpin:
to ger advertisements, “Phe manager. J
K. Enw. bas a proposition to otter anyon
who will help him in’ getting then
‘There is room for every man te have hi
share in keeping Quips and Cranks Une
best anaual in the State.

2

SOPHOMORE CLASS
TIONS.

ELEC

Wednesday evening, the ath. the Su
phomore class met in Shearer Hall tor
the election ot officers. “The officers
elected are all men ot ability and promi
nence, and the class is to be congratu
lated npon thet: choice, “Uhe ofticers at
as follows: President. A.B. Reese
Vice President, S. R. Keesler, [roe Ser
retarvs Preasurér, K.P. Nisbet: Cheer
Leadet, J. C. Raisley. C. b. Ranks
was nominated for Chaplain, and 1. W
Lane tor Mascot. No further nomina
tions were made for these offices. and the
anly nominees were considered elected.

JUNIORS ELECT OFFICERS.

At a meeting held Fridav night the
class of 1076 held: its. annual election of
officers, abd the following men_ were
chosen: President, J.P. Williams:
Vice-President, [2 M. McBryde: Secre-
tary-Treasurer, Roy Perry; Historian,
1D. Shaw.

AGERS ARE ELECTED.

At a meeting of the Athletic Associa-
tion after chapel Jast Fridav_ morning
"PD. Sparrow and L. A. Mullen were
elected assistant foot ball managers to
fill the vacancies occasioned by G.
Hicks’ retirement from school and by
W. G. Morrison's resignation on ac-
count of his connection with the annual
staf. R. G. Finley. who was recom-
mended together with Sparrow and
Mullen by the Executive Committee of
the Athletic Association, ran a close
race for the position.

ae

ASSISTANT FOOT BALL MAN |

Week.

Interesting Items.
Personal.

The new store that is to be occupied
by the White Drug Co., is nearing com
pletion, and will be opened within the
next few days.

Dr. J. M. McConnell left. Wednes
dav ‘or Washington on a brief business
trip.

’ ” t

President Martin lett Friday for
Montreat, where he will be with his
family for a few days.

. *

Mi. Richard Johnsen, of Norfolk,
Va. is here for some time visiting his
parents, Mr, and Mrs. J. H. Johnson.

‘ 4 8 &
| Mrs. Wilton Hudson, of Greenville.
|S. C., who has been visiting Mrs. J. ML.

Douglas for the past few days, lft
Fridav.
Mr. W. EL Crozier. of Baltimore.

was a visitor here “Vhursday.

* * 4
wr. Carl Estill, ot Attleboro, Mass.
was a visitor on the campus Friday.

e 4
Mi. W. HL. Rogers, class of “13. was
a visito® here for a tew days.

‘ .

Miss Cora Sloan is visiting her aant,
Mrs. ‘Thos... Lingle, ter a short while
berore poing to college this year at the
Sette Normal,

Le

Mr. Will Jetton moved into his new
drug. store during the past week, and ex
pects to have his stock complete within
the next few days.

MTULETIC. ASSOCIA
DAVIDSON.

ALL MINI
THON MEETS VI

a

| On last Saturday night the Exeeutive
Committee of the Alumni Athletic ls
feaciation fet in Coach Fetver’s
and discussed various questions ino re
gard to athletes aa Dawidson. The
members preseny were, Co ME Vavlor, of
Winston-Salem; Fo oL. Blythe, of Con
cord; Dr. HL W. MeKavy, of Charlotte;
iC. B. Bailey, of Davidson, together with
iCoach Fetzer and Manager Kluttz.

Many topics of athletics were discuss
ed for several hours, particularly that
of the teaising ot funds which the
Alumni Association needs. Several
thousand cards have been sent out, and
it was decided to immediately secure
some loyal enthusiastic alumni to travel
throughout the South to raise furids for
the Association. ‘“Vhis man is to trave
from city fo city, town to town, and
make a personal appeal to all alumni.

The question of a base ball coach was
taken up, but no one was definitely de-
cided upon. ‘This inatter will be taken
up and decided upon at the next meeting
which will be held very soon.

GAME SATURDAY. SEPT. 26.

roan

Manager Kluttz has been trying to
land a game for the Saturday before
Clemson, and is sure that there will be
one, but cannot state definitely with
what team it will be. Tt will most prob-
ably be Bingham, Catawba, Mt. Pleas-
ant. or Horner. ‘The season athletic
tickets will be good for this game. This
will be the first game, and evervone will
have a chance then to see the “Red and
Black Machine" work out for the first
time.

pn CT
— ar

Into Shape.

Social and|Coaches Working Hard to Get

Ready for Clemson.

Each afternoon the squad on the ath
letic field is settling down harder and
harder to work. “Vhe ‘raining ‘Fable
was started at Booe's last Saturday, the
pledge has been signed, regular. scrim
maging has started, and the foot ball
season is now on in dead earnest. At
present the squad looks pretty good and
much above the average, but there
should be more than fitty out on the
squad with an enrollment of over 325
Sewanee has as a rule a squad of 85,
with dess than 150 entollment. Tf any
one has not anything te wear out to prat
tice, let him see Manager Kluttz, and
he will be given something. “Phe team
needs every single-available oman out
regularly. No student must think that
because there are already several teame
out he cannot help some. “Phe coaches
are doly too glad ta sée new material on
the field. Tt you are not as large as
some others, come out and develop vour
self. No one who goes to the field with
nerve, Courage, pep, and a determination
to help out the team, will fail to anak
good sooner ear liter, if not this season,
possibly next.

It appears trom the way that Coact
Fetver and Harris are mixing up the
teams that evert one out will have to
work dor his position, “Vhe player who
will receive. a certificate “at-the end of
the senson tera block “D" or monogram

ED. CL awl well deserve to wear the
same. From the scrinmaaping it appears
thats the “old time fightiag spirit’ or
pep” has heen thoreughiy aroused,
apain.

Just a ward now to those who are not
out, and whe will not be out to try! foi
tihe squid. Lt yeu can't help to win the
‘wame by being in it, vau ean help the
team wonderfully by giving it vour toval
support, Uhis veu can do, first. bv he
Inge at every single pame this vear, Re
member this is Davidson's “came back ©
vear, and you are needed as never betare
to stand behind the (eam. Show your
willingness by purchasing a season ticket.
everyone awes it to the team to buy ene,
to-the Atheletic Assaciation, and to him
self. for the ticker will he eqaath to $8.00
in games on the Hall, and only cast vou
$s.oo, Tt is simply a business propos
tien, Some have bought their tickets
but the vast majority of the student bods
have not as vet.

Just one word of warning—remember
that though Davidson has an excellent
coaching: staff, they cannot be expected to
work miracles, for they have the work
of three seasons of coaching to undo,
The team will be one that will be 2
credit ta themselves and the college. no
one does doubt. During scrimmage each
afernoon evervone will do a great favor
hoth for the coaches and the team if he
will keen absolutely back of the side
lines. ‘Phe coaches and manager both
make this request of every student.

Every one of the last vear’s Varsity
men who will be back have arrived. A
were indeed glad to sce “Slim" Glover
hack on the scene, and alsa “Big” Me-
Kinnon. when he arrived Monday even-
ing. ‘Vhey will both add greatly to the
team as thes did last season.

‘The students have voted ten dollars
from the damage fee to pav for the plac-
ing of stepping stones across the street in
front of Mr. Schofield’s store, a much
needed and long looked for improve-
ment.

STROUSE & BRO.’S OPENING, No. 1 Ga., Sept. 19 and 21
