Successful Season

in Athlettes};

-By Successtul Coaching Win in All
Departments.

In the realm of athletics, this vear
Davidson has won for herself a name
that those who are in any way connected
with the college may be proud to claim.

FOOT BALL.

Under the excellent training and
coaching of Coach “Bob” Fetzer, aided
hy Assistant Coach Harris, a foot ball
team was put out that suffered defeat
only once during the season. The first
team to feel the heavy onslaught of the
Red and Black machine was the plucky
team from Piedmont, which was defeat-
ed by a score of 115 too. Next came
the ‘Tigers’ from Clemson. After
struggling for four quarters each side re-
tired without having scored. Newberry
College was defeated 22 to 7, while
Wofford allowed Davidson to pile up a
score of 88 while they crossed the Dav-
idson goal onlv once. At Charlotte,
Citadel Inst to Davidson by a score of
16 too. Then came the mighty strug-
gle with the Blue and ite eleven
from Chapel Hill, at Winston. For half
the game Carolina was held without
scoring, while Davidson gained a field
goal, but in the last half the University
put two men across the goal line and
secured a field goal, while the Davidson
team was held without further scoring.
Next came the game with the University
of South Carolina, in which the Red
and Black inachine won 13 to 7. Clus-
ing the season on Thanksgiving. David-
son won from Wake Forest by the close
score of 7 to 6. The total number of
points scored, against opponents was 264
to apponents’ 43.

VICTORIES IN BASE RALL.

The DAVIDSONIAN. May 5, 1915

e played and consequently the cup.
n_ basket ball the Freshmen showed
their superiority by winning out after a
ard struggle.

The track championship was won by
the Senior class.

FOOT BALL.
Davidson 11§ Piedmant .... 0
Davidson Oo Clemson ry)
Davidson 22 Newberry 7
Davidson $8) Woffurd 7
Davidson 10 Citadel .. 0V
Davidson ... 3 LL NL Go... 10
Davidson Tk Ce a OR
Davidson 7 Wake Forest. ©

207 43

HASE BALL.
Day idson 11) Elon ..... weed
Davidson .. + Weaver ..... 3
Davidson 7  Wottord .. 1
Davidson 2. 3 COU NL Ch oF
Davidson». 0 Q) Charlotte 2... 7
Davidson 7 Kichmond ~
Davidson 5 ‘Wofford 4
Davidson 2 Furman ..... 3
Davidson wm PaSC.. uv
Davidson q LSC. iP
Davidson . rw U.S CG .... 4
Davidson .. 1) Charlotte .... 0 4
Davidson oy UU. of Ga... 4
Davidson 2 Wake Forest . ©
Davidson 7 U.S CG...
Davidson 12. Wofford .... 2

106 )

(UMNI AND FRIENDS

TO Al
. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

‘The Davidson congegation has gener-
ously released me from duties of the pas-
torate, that 1 might give my time wholly
to the undertaking uf raising tunds tor
the Alumai Gymnasium.

My especial work is to try to line up
the classes to give at least 4500 cach, by
which they win places for their numerals
on the Founders Plate of the proposed
New Gymnasium, which is tuo stand

Vhe story in base ball this Spring is[midway between Chambers building and

almost the same. Coach “Bill” Fetzer
has lived up to his reputation as a base
hall) coach by putting out a winning
team. “The first game was a victory over

Flon College by a score of 11 to 1.
Then Weaver defeated the Red and
Black by a count of 8 to 5. Wofford

_ was next defeated, 7 to 1; Carolina wan
by the score of 7 to 3. Next came the
harlotte team of the Carolina League,
which was defeated to the tune of 9 to 7.
Richmond College lose to Davidson 7 tu
t; so did Wofford on her second game,
§ to 3. Furman defeated Davidson by
the close count of 3 and 2. Presbyterian
College of South Carolina lost 16 to o.
‘Then came two games with the South
Carolina “Gamecocks,” which were di-
vided evenly. Charlotte then took a
game by the count of 4 to 1, “he Uni-
versity of Georiga was defeated at Char-
lotte 9 toy. Next the series with South
Carolina was decided in favor of Dav-

idson by a score of 7 and a. Wake For-'scription sent in means one less man. forjon time.

est then took one 6 to 2. The season
ended Saturday with a victory over
Wofford, which was the third game
taken from them this year. During the
season Davidson won 10 out of 16
games.

BASKET BALL.

A basket ball team was put out that
won a name for itself also. Davidson
won from Statesville and also two out
of three games with Charlotte. She lost
one to Salishury and Greensboro, and
one to Charlotte.

TRACK.

Not quite so much interest has been
taken in track work, yet Davidson has
shown her ability by defeating South
Carolina by a score of 70 to 48 in a
recent meet. A return meet will be

iven to South Carolina here on the

ill, May 8.

TENNIS.

In tennis Davidson was not defeated
during the past year. She won both
singles and doubles from Erskine and

CLASS ATHLETICS.

‘jother

Sprunt Athletic Field.

If it were practicable to see all the
members ot the several classes, Iam sure
this would be no difhcult matter, tor the
plan appeals tu every loyal classman and
alumnus, and many classes would go far
beyond $500 in their gifts, But the
classes are scattered from Kennebec to
Kunson and from Canada tu Seuth
America, su that it is a practical impus
sibility ty see the individuals, and we
must rely, very largely, on currespond
ence tu reach them, and secure their
prornises. 4

We are hoping that the coming to you
of this issue of “Pate Davinsonian will
move you to fill in one of the promise
cards which will very soon reach you, i
they have not already done so, and mail
to the Financial Agent in the return en-

velope which is always sent with the [is Boing

cards,
Let every man remember that his sub-

Tlege. - (2) Will assure

A LETTER FROM DR. MARTIN.

To the Alumni:

The College now has the brightest
prospect that it has ever had for a gym-
niasium, and the success of the plans for
it depends on the loyalty and prompt
generosity of the Alumni. “

THE GREAT NEED.

We are now raising a tund of one
hundred thousand dollars to add to the
resources af the college. About twenty-
five thousand of this ts to be put into the
Gymnasium, for everyone who knows
the great need of our present gymnasium
knows that it is not adequate nor does
it fairly represent the standing of our
college.

The general Davidson Alumui have
never placed on the campus a concrete
testimonial of their recognition of the
services of the college to them and. of
their love and affection tor their Alma
Mater. Practically every college for
men in the South has such a testimonial
in the shape of a building.

PROMIMT ACTION NECESSARY.

1 do not believe Davidson men will
be backward in this any longer. Your
gifts will now do three things: (1) Give
a permanent worthy and usetul expres-
sion of your love and loyalty to the col-
a gymnasium
which alumai and undergraduates insist
is the most needed building. (3) Will
insure the securing ot the whole $100,-
ovo fund—two parties have offered
$55,000. We are past the $60,000
mark, and with the $25.000 from the
alumni the rest will come quickly,

We wish to lay the corner-stene at
Conmencement 1410, before the great-
est gathering ot atumni that the college
has ever witnessed. “Vo do this we must
have all pledges signed up and enough
moncy in hand to start the work.

SUCCESS IN SIGHT.

It will mean, I feel sure, that we will

succeed in this if as many as twenty

Classes will pledge $500 or more by May

25, 1915. Some ten classes have through
groups of their members, practically done
this, but we ought to have the pledges
signed in an official way to make the
matter binding.

INDIVIDL AL ALUMNI.

I am confident that there are invidiv
ual alumai financially able and sufh-
ciently interested to give personally $500
or $1,000 for this building, putting their
own name on the Founders’ Plate. It
would encourage us greatly it they
would: say su voluntarily.

WRITE DR. RICILARDS,.

Now let every alumnus write to Dr,
C. ML Richards, Davidson, N. GC, who
is financial agent tur this fund, and say
what he will do tor the cause. Dr. Rich-
ards is a member of the class of 1892,
and it goes without saying that his class
to rally to him and pledge their
quota by Commencement.

We must have our classes in line and
I know this is war time, but

the Agent to see. ‘That if every member |the offers have come, and ! confidently
of aclass promises what he can, the $500 believe that the old students are enough
for the class will be made up; and it interested to-zaise_the $25,000 for the

each of the classes sends this amount the
Gymnasium is assured and the College
has $75,000 more of interest bearing en-
dowment to increase her income and
make her more efficient in a day when
efficiency is the only guarantee of suc-
cess and the only justification of exist-
ence for a college.

Her Alumni are the glory of David-
son College. They have done much for
her. But there is no building on her
campus which they have put there.
There is nothing that symbolizes their
loyalty. There ought to be just such a
reminder of their love for the old Col-
lege as “The Alumni Gymnasium”
would at once become.

A subscription from any member of a
class can be used to secure other sub-
scriptions from that class. The com-

leted subscription from any class can
Ee used to influence the subscription of
classes. The point is clearly seen

Much interest was taken this Spring|—it is a subscription from you that we

in class athletics. In foot ball the cham-
pionship was not decided, but lay be-
tween the Junior and Sophomore classes.
In base ball the Sophomores won every

earnestly for as that which means
success to this latest undertaking of the
College. Cordially yours,

C. M. Rucitaarns.

gymnasium, that God's good people are
enough interested in the Christian edu-
cation of men and in the part this, col-
lege is doing to finish out the $100,000.

It will take only $15,000 more after
the gymnasium fund to finish up this
amount. And what a change it will
tnake.

Remember that every class or individ-
ual giving $500 or more has the class
numeral or the name placed on the
Founders’ Plate as one of the donors of
the gymnasium.

Failure will result if we put this off—
Success will result if we act now.

Wa. J. Martin,
President.

Invitations have been received from
the U. T. S., at Richmond, to the Com-
mencement to be held May 9-12. | It is
interesting to note that among the list of

raduates appear the names of eleven

avidson men, viz: . iJ
H. Bradv, C. B. Craig. T. K. Currie,
A. P. Dickson, M. S. Huske, H. M.
McDairmid. L.. RB . AM
Shields, T. D. Thomas, W. M. Wolfe.

Many Alumni
_ Organizations Formed

Large Support is Being Given by
These Organizations.

The year 1914-15 has been one ot
great activitv among the alumni of Dav-
idson. Beginning with Commencement
of last year, the Alumni Athletic Asso-
ciation was formed and definite plans
were made for the improvement of ath-
letic conditions. ft was through — the
work of this organization that the col-
lege was able to secure the very efficient
services of Coach “Bob” Fetzer, with
his assistant, Mr. Harris. Both of these
men put their, very best into training the
foot ball team last Fall and the result of
this training can be found in the results
of the season, as giver’ inthis issue. It
has been by far the best season for foot
ball that Davidson has had, and, for this
result, credit is due to the co-operation
of the alumni.

When Coach Fetzer found that it
would be impossible for him ‘to remain
at Davidsin during the Spring, on ac-
count of business plans which had de
veloped during the Fall, it was again
through the services of certain of the
alumni, co-operating with the — college,
that “Bi Fetzer, one ot the most
famous athletes that Davidson has ever
had, was secured ta coach during the
Spring. He came and with undevelop-
ed material, has turned out a winning
team for the college, which has piled one
victory high upon another. He has been
secured far another vear and he has al-
ready outlined several plans for the de-
velopment of athletics on the “HHH.

LOCAL ALUMND ASSOCIATIONS,

A number of local associations have
been formed in the various — cities
throughout the South and they report
that there has been a great deal of in
terest in their meetings. “Thev have
heen of great assistance in CO operating.
with the college in various matters. One
of the most helpful features, and one
which has been appreciated by every stu
dent, has been the assistance which these
lucal organizations have rendered the
various teams and representatives of the
call “p_in ghese cities.

QOae of the first cities tu organize an
asuciation was Greenville, S. C.. and
they have heen holding, monthly meer.
ines. which have been well attended.
Thev have had various aluranl who ‘were
visiting in the city to attend their meet-
ings and have taken an active interest
in all the student activities of the college.

Another association has been formed
in Atlanta, and their work can well: be
shown in the welcome which they gave

ALUMNAE ATULETIC ASSOCIATION,

to the debating team which visited At-
lanta this Spring and won from Emory.
Thev ‘tendered to the team a luncheon
in the Hotel Ansley and created such an
interest. in. the debate, that the large
auditorium at Agnes Scott, where the
debate was held, was filled to overflow
ing with friends of the college. On ac-
count of the loval support of this asso-
Ciation. a foot ball game with Georgia
Tech. has been scheduled for next Fall.
to be played in Atlanta, and it is also
planned to have various other events
staged in that city.

A number of the old men have also
grouped themselves together in| various
other places, among them being Wash
ington, D. C., where a strong organiza-
tion is promised, with President Wilson
as ane of the members.

In New York City, Davidson has a
large number of representatives, and un-
der the leadership of Professor Edgar
Dawson, of the Hunter College, of the
City of New York, it is planned to in-
crease the membership of the association
which has already been formed there.

Rev. M. B. McLauchlia, of Effiing-
ham, S. C., died on April 5, after an
operation, in Florence, S. Cc.

BACK TO THE OLD CAMPUS MAY 22-26
