The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. 3.

Tennis Tournament
Nearing ( Completion

the Finals Yet to Be Played.

The singles in the tennis tournament
have been delaved on account of rain,
but matches were played every afternoon
last week when it was not actually rain-
ing. The scores of the first round are
as follows:

Richardson defeated Douglas 11-9.
3-6, 6-3; Cunningham defeated Hol.
lister 6-1, 6-3; Saunders defeated Reese
4-6, 10-8, 6-2; Mitchell won from
Coachman by default; Finley. T.. de-
feated Mayfield 6-1. 6-0; Shaw defeated
Perry 63. 6-0; Hawkins won from
Watt by default; Fraser) won from
Moore by default; McKee won from
White by default: Kennedy defeated
Keesler 6-0. 3-6. 6-2: Thomas defeated
Hampton 6-4, 6-1, 6-0; Lott defeated
Kornegay 6-4, 10-8; Price defeated

Woods, F.. 6-4. 7-5; Finley, R. G.. won!

from Hall by default; Barnett defeated
Hudson 6-3, 6-0; Miller defeated
Brown 6-4, 6-8, 6-2; Roddy defeated
Howard 6-4, 6-4; completing the first
round.

In the second round Cunningham
won from Richardson by default; Saun-
ders defeated Mitchell 6-2, 5-7, 7-5:
Finley, T., defeated Shaw 6-1, 6-0;
Hawkins defeated Fraser 9-7, 7-9. 6-2;
Kennedy defeated McKee 6-3. 6-4:
Thomas defeated Lott 6-2, 6-1; Finley,
R. G., defeated Price 6-2, 6-2.

In the third round,.Saunders defeated
Cunningham 6-2, 10-8; Finley, T.. de-
feated Hawkins 6-0, 6-1; Kennedy de-
feated Thomas 2-6, 7-5. 6-3: Barnett
defeated Roddey 6-2, 6-2: Finley, R. G..,
defeated Barnett 6-3, 7-5.

In the semi-finals, Saunders defeated
T. A. Finley 6-8, 6-4, 6-4. 3-6. 10-8.

The winner of the R. G. Finley vs.
Kennedy match will play Saunders in
the finals.

DAVIDSON PLAYS ROANOKF
COLLEGE SATURDAY

Davidson goes to Winston-Salem Sat-
urday to match her strength against the
Roanoke College eleven. This is the
first time in the history of the college
athletics that these two colleges have
faced each other on the gridiron.

Roanoke has an unusually strong
team for a college of its size... Last year
thev tied V. P. I. 7-7, and this year they
held the heavy A. & M. team o to o.
Thev did not play last Saturday, so
should be in the best possible condition.

The Davidson team has felt the ef-
fects of the three heavy games at the
first of the season, but they, also, with
the excention of the light game Satur-
day. will have had a two weeks’ rest.
They have snent the last few days in
smoothing off any ragged edges that
showed in the previous games, and are
expected to be in excellent condition.

COMPARATIVE SCORES.

Below are given the results of games

played Saturday by teams that we have.

already played this season or are to play:
Washineton and Lee 12, V. P. I. 0
Wake Forest 0. A. & M. 7.
Clémson 0. Auburn 14.
U. of U. C. 0, Georgetown 38.
Georgia Tech 57. Transylvania o.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 20. 1915.

The Campaign a Suecess Under

Leadership of Chapman-Alexander

One Match in the the Semi-Finals and|Entire Student Body Attends the Services -- Splendid Enthusiasm

Aroused --- Many

The fall evangelistic campaign con-
ducted last week by Dr. Chapman, Mr.
Alexander, and their assistants, Mr.
Brown and Mr. Barraclotgh, was un-

doubtedly the most remarkable event in’

the history of Davidson within the mem-
ory of the students now on the Hill. Its
success was phenomenal, largely due to
the extensive preparation and to the em-
phasis placed on private interviews.

PREPARATION.

Since school opened in September
there has been a “floor praver meeting”
conducted on nearly every floor of every
dormitory at 10 o'clock each night. The
development of the spirit of prayer and
consecration has been extremely notice-
able as a result, so much so that the stu-
dent body has voted to continue these
prayer meetings throughout the vear.

In addition to this there was held
every morning just previous to chapel
service a morning watch prayer meet-
ings in the parlors of the library, to
which a number of men interested in the
work came.

Word has also come that daily prayer
meetings were held at Union Seminary
by the thirty-five Davidson men there
for the success of the mectings.

Letters to many Davidson supporters
and trustees were mailed from Dr. Mar
tin’s office requesting prayer for the suc-
cess of the meetings as well.

INTERVIEWS.

The personal interviews with — the
leaders of the meetings for all men who
wished to discuss the probiems of life
and its callings were a feature of the
campaign. The Bachelor’s Club, and
the Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Pi
Kappa Phi and Pi Kappa Alpha fra-
ternities generously donated the use of
their halls for this purpose, and the in-
terviews were accordingly held there.
The leaders holding them were Dr.
Chapman, Mr. Alexander. Mr. Brown,
Dr. Rolston, and “Tim” Pharr. In all
probably a total of about sfxty or more
of these interviews were held, and their
influence was very marked.

THE MEETINGS.

Because of the shortness of their stay,
the party had requested that no social
festivities be arranged in their honor, so
the entire time was spent in religious

J work.

On Monday night a preliminary pray-
er and: praise service was led by Mr.
Pharr to place the mef in the proper at-
titude of mind for the succeedings mect-
ings, and it was well attended.

Tuesday night Dr. Chapman held the
first service, and opened the series by a
striking sermon on ‘What Shall I Do
With Jesus?” The development was
based on emphasis on the several words
of the question: “What shall IT do?”
‘What shall J do?” and “What. shall 1
do with Jesus?” A number of men
stood for prayer in the meeting, and the
remarkable success of this as a first meet-
ing was commented on by both Dr.
Chapman and Mr. Alexander. The at-
tention was perfect.

The regular class periods were short-
ened ten minutes each on Wednesday
and Thursday, and chapel held at the

Interviews Held.

10:30 to 11:30 hour. On Wednesday

Chapman took as his text Isaiah
49:2: “And made me a polished shaft;
in his quiver hath he hid me.” Phese
words were spoken of Jesus, but are ap-
plicable to us as well. Tn comparison
with the arrow, we are unable to be
effective and powerful in ourselves, but
require a larger motive-power, a divine
power, behind us. We must be polished.
better to overcome obstacles and yo
straight and true to the mark. The
quiver was carried on the left side and,
and in placing us there God has placed
us next to His heart. [¢ was a sermon
purpose and life-work decision; — and
among other things Dr. Chapman. said
that a ditch-digger can be just as truly
laudable in his occupation as a‘ mission-
ary in his, bute the man with missionary
capabilities who becomes a ditch-digger
commits a sin.

Wednesday

afternoon a service was

held in the church, to which all the resi-

dents of surrounding communities were
cordially invited. Needless to sav stand
ing roam was at a premium and visitors
were present who had come many miles
or that service. The text was Peter's
question: “Lord, to whom | shall we
go?” Dr. Chapman discussing drifting
from the church hecause of intellectual
difficulties, because of suffering and sor
row, because of sin, because of neglect,
and because of failure ta observe daily
Bible reading and prayer. At the close
of the service a testimony was piven by
C. M. Fite, a former gambler of Char-
lotte, converted under Dr. Chapman] __
there. Mr. Fite's storv made a deep im-
pression on his hearers and. was after
ward widely discussed. He is naw de
voting his spare time (about three nights
a week, and Sunday) to the preaching of
the gospel in Mecklenburg Coutity, tak
ing with him three others of his own
crowd converted in the last six months.

Wednesday night Dr. Chapman spoke
from Hosea 8:7: “They have sown the
wind; they shall reap the whirlwind.”
Tt was a sermon on habit. In part Dr.
Chapman said, “Every man has the abil-
itv to sow. * * * He may sow to the
flesh or sow to the spirit. * * * Which
wav are you sowing?” One way is
easier than the other, but it leads to
death—the other leads to live everlast-
ing. Which will vou choose? At this
service manv of the men tonk a new
stand for Christ and several publicly
acknowledged Him as their Lord and
Master.

Thursday morning the text was from
Romans 10:9: “Tf thou shalt confess
with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ,
and shalt believe in thy heart that God
hath raised Him from the dead, thou
shalt be saved.” Confession is public
acknowledgement in addition to mere in-
tellectual assent. We must assent to
three things: (1) We are sinners; (2)
God has made provision for our escape
from the penalty of sin; (3) Christ
came, lived, suffered, and died that we
might have life. If you doubt the eff-
cacy of Christianity, think of some per-
son who has been changed bv it; would
anything else have done it? Come while

(Continued on paaqe 4)

No. 6.

|Wofford Is Defeated

By Score of 45-0

Game Featured by Long End Rans
and Forward Passes.

In a game which was rather slow on
account of the extreme heat, Davidson
on last Saturday defeated the Wofford
College eleven by the score of 45-0.

For Davidson the playing of Black,
Laird, C. Walker. Crouch and Me-
Alister was the feature, and for Wof-
ford that of Glenn, Osborne, Coving-
ton and Mims.

Davidson kicked te Wofford, defend-
ing the south goal. Failing to gain, Os-
borne punted to Keesler. Regular gains
by C. Walker, Laird and Black brought
the ball to the Wofford 5-yard line,
from which point Laird went through
the line for the first touchdown. Grey
kicked an casv goal.

During the remainder of the first
quarter and the whole of — the — second
quarter, Wofford, ‘although failing to
make gains either through the Davidson
line or by many attempted forward
passes, nevertheless put up a stubborn
defensive game. Whitesides made a fine
tackle after Laird had made a 25-yard
run from an intercepted forward pass.

At the beginning of the second half
Coach Fetzer sent in the second eleven.
Mixing line bucks with end runs the
second string squad were able to score
on Wofford in about the same time that
it required the Varsity to score, A well
executed forward pass, Lawson to Me-
Allister, behind the goal, accounted for
Davidson's second touchdown. Grey
failed to kick goal.

A forward pass, Osborne to Moore,

(Continued on page 4)

WAL KEE R ELECTE D CAPT AIN
THE OF FOO'P BALL TEAM

At a meeting of the “Wearers of the
1.” held in the drawine room of the
squad's private. car, while en route to
Atlanta to meet Georgia ‘VTech, C. TL.
Walker was clected captain of the Dav-
idson eleven te succeed “Big” McKin-
non. who failed to return to college this
year.

For two years Walker has heen one
of Davidson’s mainstays in’ the back-
field. Before coming to Davidson he
played a vear with the Clemson Tigers.
Tn all departments of the game he shows
up with the “goods,” and Davidsen is
fortunate in having a fighter of his cali-
bre to captain its eleven.

C. WALKER, CAPTAIN 1915-16.
