The DAVi

Vol. Il.

SONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 27, 1915.

No. 7.

Capt. J. W. Brown
Dies Suddenly

Prominent, Citizen Stricken Sun-
day Afternoon.

The whole community as well as a
large number of friends in other places
will be grieved by the sudden death, on
Sunday afternoon, the 24th, of Capt.
John D. Brown, one of the oldest citi-
zens of Davidson. Captain Brown was
born. in Robeson County on November
17, 1840, and was the son of Archibald
S. Brown, a lawyer of prominence in his
time. When nineteen years of age he
moved with his parents to Mecklenburg
County, and entered Davidson College
as a student, but the opening of the war
made it impossible for him to complete
his college course.. He joined the army
as a private in the company of Capt. W.
B. Lynch, and upon its disbanding he-
came a member of Company I, Fifth
North Carolina Gavalry. He served as
a private and as sergeant until 1863.
when he was elected third lieutenant of
Company C, Thirty-seventh Regiment.
In 1864 he was promoted to captain of

his conpany. Among the battles in
which he participated were those of
White Hall Bridge, Fredericksburg,

Chancellorsville, the Wilderness, Spott-
sylvania Court House, and the fighting
in the trenches in the vicinity of Peters-
burg. He was once wounded and twice
captured. At Spottsylvania he first fell
into the hands of the enemy, but was
exchanged sixty days later. Finally. on
the right of the line at Petersburg. a few
days before evacuation, he was mad
prisoner, and was carried to Johnson's
Island. Lake Erie, where he was held
until the following June.

After the war Captain Brown re-
turned to Mecklenburg County. where
he became a verv successful farmer, in-
creasing his land holdings to some seven
or eight farms, and running at the same
time a prosperous mercantile business in
Davidson, where he has lived ever since
the war.

Tn 1864 he was married to Miss
Marv Johnson. Six children survive
him—Mr. Owen N. Brown, a lawyer in
Brooklyn. N. Y.; Mr. Houston J.
Brown, of the present Brown-Knox
Mercantile Co., in Davidson; Mr. John
Brown, living in Graham, Va.; Mr.
Sam A. Brown, in business in Charlotte;
Mr. Archibald S. Brown, in Davidson:
and Miss Annie H. Brown, the only
daughter, living in Charlotte.

LOCAL CHAPTER OF
FRATERNITY HONORED

Quite an honor has come to the Dav-
idson Chapter of Beta Theta Pi Fra-
ternity in the appointment of L. A.
Mullen to cover the proceedings of the
annual convention of that Fraternity,
held in San Francisco during this last
summer.

Mr. Mullen was a delegate to this
convention, and it was during the trip
to San Francisco that the editor of their
Magazine requested that he keep a rec-
ord of the proceedings and include these
in an article to appear in the next issue
of the Magazine. Word has already
come from headquarters of the Fratern-
ity thanking Mr. Mullen for his excel-
lent work and as a concrete testimony of
their appreciation there was the phrase
included, “Enclosed please find check.”

Sophs Still Lead

Class Basket Ball

Have Not Yet Been Defeated---Mon-
day Games Well Fought.

The Sophomore basket ball team re-
tained their faultless record by defeating
the Freshman team Monday morning to
the tune of 39 to11. This is the Soph-
omore’s third victory, and so far they
have not lost a single game. Although
four men of last year’s Freshman team
are ineligible, having made the Varsity
trip, and two others did not return, this
year’s team, with D. Sprunt as captain
and Hengeveld as manager, and aug-
mented by King, is a very fast one and
is making a strong bid for the champion-
ship.

In the game Monday morning, Sprunt
and King starred for the Sophomores.
and Hall for the Freshmen. The game
was fast and hard throughout, and was
featured by the number of long shots.

The line-up was as follows:

Sophs (39) Position Fresh (11

Sprunt.... 0.0.0 0c cece ee eee Hall

King 20. 0... cee Nimmocks
Forwards

Mountcastle 2. 1.2.00... Williamson

Center
Worth. .... 00.0 0. ce eee Delaney
Therrell 20. 0. ee Burns
Guards ‘
Substitutions: © McAskill) for Wil

liamson; Alexander for DeTaney: Ports
for Alexander. Referee, Perry.
* . *

On Monday afternoon the Seniors de
feated the Juniors in a fast game by the
score of 20 to 12. The Junior team
fought well, but were finally beaten by
the team work of their opponents, and
the accurate shooting of Dumas. At the
end of the first half the score stood 14-6.
The whole game was” watched with
great interest by a large number of up
holders of both sides. Tt was one of the
hardest. contested games vet plaved.

The line-up was as follows:

Seniors (20) Pasiton — Juniors (12)

Perry 2. cece cece eens Nishit

Hoyt... 0... 0.0 eee eee Young
Forwards

Dumas... ............ » Henderson

Center

Fdgerton............ Keesler. W. P.

Patton... 0... ee eee ee Murray
Guards

Substitutions: Price for Henderson.

Referee, Childs.
The summary of the games is agfol
lows:

Won Lost Percentage
Sophs .. 3 re) 1,000
Tuniors ... I 2 333
Fresh .. .. I 2 333
Seniors ... I 2 333

ANNUAL MEETING OF
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The annual fall meeting of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Board of Trustees
of Davidson College was held in Char-
lotte last week. Dr. Martin and Mr.
Jackson attended the meeting, and their
reports as to the fine opening and pros-
perous condition of the college were very
satisfactory. Dr. W. L. Lingle, the
chairman, presided, and all the members.
with one exception, were present. Only
routine matters received the attention of
the committee, and no business of spe-
cial interest was transacted.

Sannders Wins Cham-

lRed and Black Defeats

pionship In Singles} Roanoke In Good Game

By Defeating R. G. Finley Monday |Forward Pass and End Runs Re-

-~-Match Was Well Fought.

The singles of the tennis tournament
were completed Monday afternoon when
Saunders defeated R. G. Finley 3-6, 6-3,
7-5. 6-0. The last match of the semi-
finals was played Saturday afternoon,
when R. G. Finley. won from Kennedy.
The ability of both players frequently
drew forth applause from the onlookers.

The final match, Finley vs. Saunders,
was fast and characterized by brilliant
playing on the part of both contestants.
Saunders by his victory has won the
right to represent Davidson in inter-col-
legiate tennis, and he is quite capable of
adding to the laurels which were won
for her last year. Saunders and Alford.
by playing a brilliant. steady game
through many hard fought matches, won
out for the honors and will represent
Davidson in the doubles.

The manager reports that he has ar-
ranged for a match with lMrskine College
on the Hill in the near future, and that
he is trying to land a game with Wake
Forest... As the tournament was so late
in its completion he was unable to ob
tain a match with Elon College this fall.
but one has been arranged with that col
leve ‘for next spring.

Y.M.C. A. MEETING.

The Y. M. C. A. meeting last “Phars
day evening was conducted by J. H.
Carson. ‘The music rendered by the Or-
chestra was highly apprectated by the
audience, which showed a significant in
crease in attendance.

Mr. Carson stated that he wanted
every fellow who would to testify of the
benefit, that he had derived) from the
Chapman-Alexander meeting. “Phe re
sponses which followed were many and
it was made manifest that the good
which the Chapman-Alexander parts
did lives after them. ‘Tie testimonies
in condensed and concise farm are as
follows: “The greatest danger to col
lege boys is to drift: notoriously good
natured fellows allow things to come
into mind and crowd religious things
out.” “Phe meeting impressed upon me
the fact that religion is the supreme
thing in life.’ “It was the best thing
for Davidson in the course of her his-
tory.” “Tt was a stimulus ro tive a posi-
tive Christian life.” “Tl realized that
prayer was the great help.” “TO was
brought from the gates of hell.” ‘“Noth-
ing has done more good for my life—it
has brought about a complete change.”
“T was impressed of our greater respon
sibility.” “Tt brought back the teach-
ines of my father and mother.” “In
religion there is a power.” “Tt brought
us all to a deeper realization of what
Christian religion really is.” “A stimu-
lus for better Y. M. C. A. attendance
has been created.” ‘T am going to do
more for Christ.” “There is a_ real
beauty in our singing when we sing
praises.” “IT was a ministerfal candidate
and was not converted until] the meet-
ine.” “The meeting has heen an in-
spiration for Bible study attendance.”
“Tt was the greatest mecting that has
ever come to Davidson.” “All of the
men on the campus are now bound to-
gether in a different sort of way.”

sult in Two Touchdowns.

Davidson tallied another victory Sat-
urday afternoon by defeating Roanoke
College 13 to 0. In the opening period
it looked as if everything was going
Roanoke's way and their superior weight
tald heavily on the Red and Black.
With apparent ease the Virginians ad-
vanced {he ball to Davidson's 5-yard
line. But the Tar Heel line braced and
spoiled a field goal for the Roanokers.

Resenting this onslaught the Red and
Black came back with all the spirit and
“pep” characteristic of Davidson, and
succeeded in placing the ball on Roan-
okv's 3-yard line, only to be sent 15
yards back on a penalty on the following
play.

In the second quarter the bali see-
sawed up and down the field. but was
finally pushed well into Davidson's ter-
ritory. A forward pass was intercepted
by Captain Walker, who with beautiful.
interference ran 70 vards before being .
downed. The half ended with the ball
in Davidson's possession. Score 0-0.

In the second half Davidson entered
with a rush, captured the ball from the
Virginians and raced to their g-yard line.
On the second down, 4 to go, Davidson
scared the first touchdown in a forward
pass aver the goal line. Grey failed to
kick goal,

The game from that time on was
Davidson's in’ all) departments. They
bucked the line. circled the ends, com-
pleted forward passes at will, and again
held on the ball en Roanoke’s 3-vard
line, but for holding were penalized 15
yards and the hall went over. Roanoke
punted out of danger.

In the last quarter by a beautiful: for-
ward pass, Lawson to Younger, and end
runs, Davidson crossed for tes second
touchdown, Lawson kicking goal.

Roanoke received and was held for
downs. Davidson by steady bucks and
end runs again crossed the line, but fum-
bled and Roanoke recovered. After a
few short gains the Virginians attempt-
ed to punt, but the kick was blocked and
Davidson recovered on the 15-yard line.
Place kick formation had been called
when the whistle blew, ending the strug
gle. Score, Davidson 13, Roanoke o.

For Davidson the work of White,
Savad and Younger was especially good.
Younger on the right wing was in all
parts of the game, snatching passes from
space at will and repeatedly breaking up
the Virginia interference and throwing
the runner for losses of 10 to 15 yards.
Black at right half also did stellar work.
He circled the ends without difficulty
and was the most consistent ground
gainer on the field. Captain Walker,
both in the backfield and Tater in’ the
line proved himself master of his po-

sition. Line-up:

Davidson (13) Position Roanoke (0)
Whie .. . oe eee eee ee O’F latherty
Center
Sayad .. 2 6... cee eee S. Bonham
Right Guard
Grey... 00... Lice eee neee Painter
Left Guard
T. White... 00... .. 0. cee eee Roe

Right Tackle .
(Continued on page 4)
