The DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., AUGUST 23, 1915.

ATHLETIC NEWS.

Mr. W. McK. Fetzer. our athletic
director, with his brother, Mr.
Robert A. Fetzer. has been conducting
a summer camp for boys. at Camp Sap-
phire, near Brevard. N. C.. will be in
Davidson by the opening to take charge
at once of the foot ball squad and get
them ready for the heavy schedule that
has been arranged for the coming season.
He will be assisted by Mr. Dewitt
Kluttz, widely known to Davidson
alumni as one of the best all-round ath-
letes we have ever turned out. For the
last two years Mr. Kluttz has been as-
sistant coach at the University ot North
Carolina, where he has been pursuing
the study of medicine. Mr. Kluttz is to
be assistant to -Mr. Fetzer for the entire
vear and look after basket ball. track
teams and other forms at athletics. In

addition to his coaching at the Univer-.
sity of North Carolina, Mr. Kluttz was}

for two vears a teacher in the Wuodber-
ty Forrest School, Virginia, and mater-
ially aided in putting out good teams for
the well known preparatory school.

Manager T.
ed an unusually attractive foot ball
schedule, including games with Wash-
ington and Lee. Clemson. Georgia Tech,
University of North Carolina, Univer-
sity of South Carolina, and Wake For-
est. Practically all members of last
year’s team will return and some very
promising young athletes are reported to
be coming in with the new class.

Mr. W. L. Boggs. who was compell-
ed to drop out of college two vears ago,
and who has for the past vear heen as-
sistant director in the Richmond Y. M.
C. A. gymnasium, will return to David-
son this vear and have charge of our
gymnasium classes. Mr. Boggs has met
with unusual success as a gymnasium di-
rector and we are quite fortunate to
secure his services for our gymnasium
work. The gymnasium is being worked
over and put in better shape than ever
for the basket ball teams and regular
gymnasium classes. Plans are being
made to lay the foundation for our new
gymnasium next spring.

Among the Davidson alumni who
have taken a prominent part in summer
base ball, we would mention: E. L.
Booe, who has been manager of the
Statesville club during the season: J. C.
Cashion, one of the Minneapolis club's
pitchers; W. T. Osteen and Lloyd
Christenburv, who have been starring on
the Morganton team; and Murphy Cur-
rie, who is a strong member of the pitch-
ing staff of the Durham aggregation.

The tennis courts on the college
grounds are being leveled up and resur-
faced and new back-stops put up. Thev
will be open to the use of all the stu-
dents and doubtless much pleasure will
be derived from this attractive sport
during the onen weather of our fall
months. As is known to our old stu-
dents. tennis can he played here every
month in the vear.

The golf course is heine mowed and
put in excellent shane for the opening of
college. The handicaps for the Autumn
Tournament will be hegun soon after
the students return. The puting greens
have been sprinkled with oil during the
summer and are in fine shape for play-
ing.

Mr. Lamont Fields, who was success-
fully operated on for appendicitis at the
Charlotte Sanitarium a week ago Sun-
day, returned to Davidson on Wednes-
day.

D. Sparraw has arrang-: !

TO THE DAVIDSON MEN.

The Y. M..C. A. takes this opportun-
ity to welcome to Davidson both the
old men and the new, and to ask the
earnest co-operation and hearty support
of each man in the work of the vear.
Too often we are prone to think of the
Y. M. C. A. as an organization which
trains the few men on the cabinet and
committees, but this should not be true.
A few men are unable to do the work
alone, and we, must have the active sup-
port of each member to make the As-
sociation the mighty force on the campus
which it should be.

In the battle on the foot ball field
only eleven men can take part, but in the
daily batele with the Devil here on the
campus each man may play a large part
with the help of his captain, Jesus
Christ. During this year let us hit the
line hard and gain ground toward the
goal of right living and true. service.
We all remember the coach's warning.
“Keep your eve on the ball.” May we
not lose sight of the ball by becoming
engrossed in the varied activities of stu-
dent life; but mav we ever strive to
make Jesus Christ a more living reality
on the campus.

Some of us plan when we have finish-
ed our education, to go as missionaries
to the Chinese, but fail to help — the
Freshman fooming next door who is
sadly in need of encouragement. Others
of us expect to be ministers of the gos-
pel in this country, but do not attempt
to reach the man in our class who is
without Christ. Then there are others
of us who expect to serve our Master in
other professions and in’ business. but
look on complacently while the souls of
men around us are starving. Will we
continue in this course? Will a man
who is a Christian see one of his fratern-
itv mates, to whom he is bound by the
closest ties, in need of spiritual help and
refuse to give it to him! Let us take as
our motto this year “Win the one next
to you.” ,

Yours in His service,
W. G. SomervILce.
President.

‘

TO THE CLASS OF 1919.

To an alumnus who has covered any
part of the rather extensive field from
which Davidson draws students, one
thing is particularly striking—the in-
tense devotion and loyalty that present
students and alumni exhibit for their
Alma Mater.

While travelling for the college this
summer, I chanced to meet most of the
Davidson students and alumni in eastern
North Carolina. Wherever and when-
ever I met one, whether classmate or
college mate, close friend or passing ac-
quaintance, there was always a bond of
sympathy between us as we shodk each
other’s hand. And what is the cause of
such a feeling? It is not a spirit that is
easily found. The cause first and last.
is Davidson itself, with all that it stands
for, its environment. its influences, and
its memories. So the men who enter
college this Fall are coming into the
happiest days of their lives, days in
which friendships are formed which are
life-lasting. days in which bonds are
made which bind them to the most loyal
alumni in the world. We welcome you
most heartily, class of 1919. into a pro-
gressive college, rich in splendid tradi-
tions.

J. Eowarp Jounson.

TO THE NEW MEN

TO THE NEW STUDENTS.

You. who are expecting to enter Dav-
idsbn College this next month for the
beginning of vour college course, will be
interested to hear that sour class prom-
ises to be a large one. We have accepted
more new applicants up. to date of Au-
gust 10, this year, than up to August 30,
in 1913 or 1914,

Let nothing interfere with your com-
ing. if you have been accepted. “Phe
college was never better equipped to
serve you and much has been done this
summer to improve the plant and make
it more efficient.

Be sure to come on time. Late en-
trance badly handicaps a student, and,
unless it is necessary. no one should fail
to be here to matriculate on the jist of
August, or the rst of September; better

yn “Tuesday the jist. as there will be
some conjestion on Wednesday the rst.
It is well to have a day to look about
vou, get your bearings and become set
tled.

The committees from the student or-
ganizations will meet vou at the trains
and help vou find vour quarters. “They
will direct you ta Mr. Jackson, our
Business Manager, who will see that
you get your room kev. Then you re-
port at the President's office for mat.
riculation. We shall all he glad to wel-
come you and have you share with us
all the advantages, opportunities | and
pleasures that’ the college offers. Come
prepared to do your best during the en
tire vear and to make the right start to
that end, and you will find that Faculty
and .old) students alike will appreciate
vour earnestness and honor vou for it..

Please understand that T shall. always
he glad to see vou and talk over with
vou anv problems of interest in) your
life. which you would like me to con
sider with vou. | am entirely at your
service. This is true of each member of
the Faculty as well.

Hoping and expecting to meet vou at
the opening, |.am, Sincerely vours,

W, J. Martin.
DR. ARBUCKLE’S RESIDENCE.

The college is just finishing a new
residence for Dr. Arbuckle, on Concord
avenue, between Dr. Lingle’s and Mr.
Jackson's. In architectural design this
home is a little different from anything
in Davidson. The outside is plastered
up to the second story and then shingled
the rest of the wav. his, together
with the extended caves and wide brick
porch, makes this from the outside one
of the most attractive’ homes in) David-
son. The interior is well arranged with
all conveniences.

OLD MEN RETURNING.

Their friends will he interested to
know that the following men who
dropped out of their classes a year or
more ago. will re- enter Davidson this
fall: J. P. McNeil. Tr.. 1. T. Gilles-
nie, Lex Klutz. L. H. Fikell. Robert DL.
Murray, and W. L. Boggs, Jr.

A letter fram Mr. A. W. White, who
has been travelling representative of the
college in western South Carolina, giv-
ing his impressions of the outlook for
Davidson, states that there will be a
good representation in the new class
from South Carolina and that the
alumni of the college in the state were
never more loyal in their support of
Davidson.

TO THE OLD STUDENTS.

The summer correspondence indicates
a good opening of college September 2,
in-so far as new students are concerned.
More applications have been accepted up
to this date, August to. than by the end
of August during the Last: three years.
‘Vhese new students are in vour territory
and some are possibly in your own im-
mediate neighborhood, and | suggest that
vou hunt them out and make yourself
known to then and assure them at a
hearty welcome at Davidson. With the
continued loval suppert of the college
students and alumni there is ne. reason
why our college should not be crowded
with the best. To think -it will be avell
filled this Fall provided two things hap-
pen: a

ist. “Phat you old) men return in’
large numbers as heretofore. | have heard
of but few that expect to drop out, aryl
] hope that a larger proportion thin
ever will return, ‘

2nd, “That applicants for the new
class continue to carall during August
as during the same month in) previous,
years. and that, as heretofore, practically
all. who have applied and been accepted,
present themselves for entrance the first
of September.

Many of the old men have written me
during the Summer about new students,
and To have appreciated their valuable ©
help. Now fetus all get to work, meet
those why are in our own neighborhood,
and tell them about the college. and sec
that they feel they will be welcomed.

A real effort generally, an the part of
the old students, made at once, will also
discaver many who have not yet decided
where they are going this Fall, and en-
list them for Davidson.

T expect the old men to retura in
large numbers, and to join the officers
and faculty in an carnest attempt. to
make this the hest year of the college.

T hope you have had a pleasant and
profitable summer. We will be glad to
welcome vou hack ta the campus.

Cordially yours,
W. J. Martin.

BOARDING HOUSFS.

» Miss Rosa Shoemaker; W. A. John-

son, manager; price, $10.00; capacity,
40.
Mrs. N. LL. Barnes; W. Witt,

manager; price. $9.50; capacity, 50.

Mrs. C. Campbell; 1, A. Mullen,
manager; price, $16.00; capacity, 24.

Mrs. J. K. Glasgow; F. J. McIntire,
manager; price, $12.00; capacity. 20.

Mrs. Martin H. Gantt; TT. R. Mc-
Neill, manager; price, $15.00; capacity,
25.

Mrs. M. A. Henderson; T. J. Mit-
chell, manager; price, $13.50; capacity,
30.

Mrs. A. C. Williamson; J. P. Wil-
liams, manager; price, $15.00; capacity,
20. ‘

Mrs. L. R. Brady: W. G. Morrison,
manager; price, $12.00; capacity, 40.

Mrs. N. Smith: C. FE. Rankin,
manager; price, $13.50; capacity, 20.

Mrs. J. A. McMillan: C. L.. Walker,
manager; price, $14.00; capacity, 30.

Mrs. L. R. Smith; F. H. Smith,
manager; price, $15.00; capacity, 20.

Mrs. Robson, Mrs. Vinson, and Mrs.
Paisley will open their homes as usual;
but as they were out of town fheir rates
could not be obtained.

The Fresh. Reception Committee, F. 8. Smith, Chairman., will be glad to help you in any way.
