The DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. SEPTEMBER 29, 1915.

‘Vol. 3.

Literary Society Plans
For the Coming Year

Enroliment the Largest Yet---Con-
tests for the Year Announced.

‘The Philanthropic Society, with an
enrollment of forty-one new members,
and the Eumenean Society, with an en-
rollment of thirty-one new members.
have begun what now promises to be a
most successful year of work. ‘The num-
ber of new men in both societies is seven-
ty-two, or approximately 4o per cent of
their total membership of 184. The
Phi. now has a total membership of 95;
the Fu. a total membership of 89. It is
worthy of note that 52 per cent of all
those who have matriculated in college
are members of literary societies.

‘DEBATING TEAMS.

Following a plan inaugurated last
year, Davidson will again put out two
Inter-Collegiate Debating “Teams. Both
debates will be held in the spring. A
contract for a debate with Emory has
been signed, but the other debate is still
open.

ANNUAL CONTESTS.

All of the Literary Society contests
for the ear will be held during the
spring term. These contests comprise
the Fresh-Soph debate, the Fresh-Soph
declamation contest, the Junior-Senior
debate and the Fiction and Essay con-
tests. In the Fresh-Soph declamation
contest preliminaries are held in cach
hall and the three best from cach society
are chosen for the final contest, the win
ner from each society being awarded a
mela. There are no preliminary contest,
in the Fresh-Soph debaters’ contest. and
the winner in each hall is awarded a
medal.

At Junior Speaking six commence-
ment orators, three from cach society, are
chosen to contest during commencement
week for a handsome gold medal known
as the Junior Orator’s Medal. The
Junior-Senior debate is primarily an in-
ter-society contest, but at the final con-
test in which three from each society
speak a medal is given, to the best de-
bater from each cociet Medals are
given jointly by the two societies for the
best article of fiction and the best essay.

THE COMING
CLEMSON GAME

On next Saturdav Davidson goes up
against the heavy Clemson team for the
second game of the season. Last year
the Red and Black machine plaved them
a tie game on the local field. This vear
Davidson plays them at Clemson.

Clemson is expecting to have an un-
usually strong team this year. Nearly
all of last vear’s line will be back in the
game this fall with the exception of
Schilleter at tackle. They are not so
fortunate in the back field. only two of
last year’s men. quarterback McMillan
and halfback Majors having returned,
James and fullback Webb being out.
They have several good men that were
ineligible last year and are expecting
some good material from the new men.

The Tigers expect to avenge last
vear’s tie, but the Red and Black team,
knowing that the game last year was vir-
tually a victory for them, are going to
put up an unusually strong fight.

The officials for the game have not
been chosen.

State Conference at Guilford

College Proves Great Success

No. 3.

|The Generals Score

Only Two Touchdowns

The Large Delegations and Splendid Speakers Insured Successful Light Red and Black Line Held Well
Session---Davidson Wins in Athletics.

The local delegation to the State Sru-
dent Y. M. C. A. Conference, at Guil-
ford College. which left Davidson at
12:50 p.m. Thursday, included the fol-
lowing twenty-seven) men:  W. Co
Rourk. J. G. Patton, Jr. S. B. Hay,
dr. W. OG. Somerville, R. H. Bennett.
W. A. fohnson, C. E. Rankin, G. B.
Hoyt. C. FL Monroe, J. 1. Knight. W.
H. Neal, ‘T. J. Mitchell, J. H. Meck.
TM. MecBrvde, J. W! Mann, A. B.
Reese, J. H. Carson. F. FE. Fowlkes, H.
A. Dishough, J. G. Conoly, W. N. Me-
hane, A. C. Fairley, M.S. Kennedy, Ft.
F. Mayfield. =. C. McCaskill, L. H.
Patterson, and W. A. Dumas, chairman.

Upon arrival ac Guilford the delega
tion was taken to the college in cars and
rooms were there assigned them.

THE CONFERENCES.

At 8 p. m. the opening session wis
held in the college auditorium in’ Me-
morial Hall, and was led by Mr. E.G.
Wilson.

After cordial speeches of welcome
from President Newlin and Mr. Far,
rell, Budd. president of the Guilford Y.
M. C. A.. and a short speech by Mr.
Wilson on the purposes of the confer-
ence, Dr. Poteat. of Wake Forest Col-
lege, made the opening address of the
session. In this address Dr. Poteat dis-
cussed the program of action proposed
by Christ, and developed the point that
Christ was more concerned with conduct
than opinions. .

At the second meeting on Friday
morning the study of Dr. W. D.
Weatherford’s book, “Introducing Men
to Christ,” was taken up, this study be-
ing led by Dr. Weatheford in person.

At g:15 the college chapel service
was held, and immediately following
this Dr. W. D. Weatherford addressed
the conference on the modern false con-
ceptions of the Bible and the purpose of
Bible study. Following this Mr. J. J.
King, secretary of the A. & M. Associa-
tion, discussed the courses of Hible study.
Mr. ‘F. C. Boushall, secretary of the
U. of N. C. Y. M. C. A., discussed
“Bible Study as a Working Force in
College Life.” In the afternoon session
Dr. Weatherford dealt with the subject
of the conduct of association meetings,
and Mr. Wilson outlined the proper or
ganization of our association's finances.
The training of men for the work was
then taken up by Dr. Weatherford.

“The Bible In Modern Life” was the
subject for the evening session, which
met at 7:30 p.m. Dr. Neal L. Ander-
son, of Winston-Salem, handled this
topic.

The conference was opened on Satur-
day morning with an address by Dr.
Weatherford on ‘Personal Relation-
ships.”” ‘The missionary department work
of the Y. M. C. A. was then presented
by Mr. R. W. Barnett, of Hang Chow,
China.

At the afternoon session the problems
which are to be met with in work in
country districts was discussed by Dr.
Weatherford, while college deputation
work was presented by Mr. Ramsour.
This session was closed with an address
by.Mr. Wilson on “Y. M. C. A. Work
as a Life Work.”

Ne

At the 7:30. p.m. session Mr. Bar
nett outlined the Yo ME C. AL work in
China.

On Sunday morning the regular les:
son ostudy in’ “Introducing Men te
Christ” was led by Dr. Weatherford.
Vhe conference then adjourned to join
the college students in their Sunday
School services. Dr. tharper, of Flen
College, made the address here, his sub
ject being “The Preparation of a Sun
dav School ‘Peacher.”

Mr. Ramsour, at the afternoon ses
sion, presented the Work of the Volun
teer Movement.

The conference was brought to a most
successful close at the evening church
services. at which Mr. Wilson took as
his subject, “The ‘Pre of Christ” and
outlined the requisites for a Christlike
life.

An impressive feature of the confer
ence was the forming of the Y. M.C. A.
circle and the singing of the association
song, clasing the conference.

In addition to the regular meetings of
the conference, group meetings af mem
hers of the Volunteer Bands, the Y. M.
C. A. Presidents, and the Bible Studs
teachers for specific study of problems of
this work were held at the conclusion of
each night session of the conference.
Various groups and delegation praver
meetings were also held at times.

At one of the meetings of the David
son delegation, “EP. J. Mitchell was eleer
ed delegation representative, with A. B.
Reese as alternate, to meet with the
other - representatives to arrange — plans
for next vear's conference and for the
Blue Ridge conference in June.

The complete plans for these will be
announced later. Invitations for the
1916 conference were tendered by Caro
lina, A. & M.. Wake Forest and Ca-
tawba.

OF all the delegations at the confer
ence Davidson's was the largest, with
twenty-seven men. “Trinity was next
with fifteen, and Wake Forest, Elon and
A. & M. each had twelve. Tn all. fif
teen colleges and preparatory schools of
the state were represented, at least 110
delegates being present.

CONFERENCE ATHLETICS.

An interesting phase of the conference
was the athletic program. At 4 p.m.
Friday afternoon, Wake Forest met
Davidson in a basket ball game, in which
Davidson was the easy winner. During
the first half the D. C. quintette were
unable to locate the basket, though thev
had the ball in their possession the ma
jority of the time. The whistle sounded
with the score 7 to 4 in Wake Forest’s
favor. Davidson started the second half
with a rush, and reversed the count, pil-
ing up an overwhelming 16 to 8 score.
Superior team work and passing made
the victory possible.

They were immediately challenged bv
Trinity, and the conference champion-
ship game was played on Saturday aft-
ernoon. Trinity put up a much harder
fight than Wake Forest had donc.
though they went down to defeat by a
larger score. 26 to 12. Davidson had
no trouble in finding the ring during

(Continued on page 4)

---Davidson “Pep” in Evidence.

Davidson opened its foot ball season
in Lexington, Vai, Saturday, September
28. holding the strong Blue and White
‘aggregation to a tg to o score, “The
game was not characterized by any sen-
cational plavs, but | Davidson's plucky
fight from che blowing of the first: whis-
tle to the last down was the outstanding
feature of the game, Although greatly
ougweighed., the Red and Black never
once ceased fighting, and in spite of the
odds against them plaved with a deter-
mination that brought praise from all
sides. Never once during the — entire
pane was time called for them.

This was the first game of the season

ie
for both teams.. Washington and lee
has an abundance of good material, and
Coach Eleack will doubtless develop a
team equal ino strength to his unbeaten
cleven of last season.

ln the opening quarter: Washington
and Lee defended the west goal By
steady line bucks but without sensational
gains the Generals marched up the field,
and the quarter ended with the ball on
Davidson's 1s -vard line,

The second quarter Washington and
Lee gained § vards on a series of line
bucks. In an attempted end run Fowle
threw Barrett in’ a pretty open tackle
for 5 yards. Vhe Generals failed in a
placement kick. the ball barely rolling
outside, Davidson's ball on the t-yard
line. Walker’s punt was blocked and
Young recovering crossed the line for
the first. tauchdown. Young kicked goal.

The third quarter passed with slow
gains through the line, and the ball was
in the hands of the Generals when the
whistle blew.

The fourth quarter marked Washing-
ton and Lee's sensational gains. Bar-
ret ran for a gain of 43 vards through
the ling, and “Cv” Young circled the
end for a gain of 22 more. On the fol-
lowine line buck Sorrell crossed the goal

for the second touchdown. Davidson
received the kick off and failine to gain
Walker punted. Sorrell fumbled the

punt and King recovered. Fowle gain-
ed 7 around left and the whistle blew.

For Davidson the work of Walker,
Laird and Black in the backfield, and
White, Younger and Walker, R.. in the
line was good. The whole team fought
during the entire period with the old-
time Davidson “pep” and showed no in-
timation at any time of letting up in the
struggle.

For Washington and Lee. Young,
Shultz and Sorrell did the stellar work.
Lineup:

Wk lL. Position, Danidcon,
Graham...... lefrend o 00... Walker
Shultz... 00... cleft tackle... MecKeithan
Rryan........ left guard... 0... Grev
Pierotti....... center ....... White
Dingwall... .. right guard... . Savad
Tonicn..... 2. right tackle .... Miller
Harris........ right end... . Younger
Cromwell. ... .quarterback .. . Keesler
Young........Jeft half... 0... Black
BRarrett....... right half... . Walker
Sorrell... ... . fullback 00... Laird

At a recent meeting, the Ministerial
Band elected R. H. Ratchford as vice-
nresident, to take the place of E. H.
Hamilton, who did not return to college.
