The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., APRIL 28, 1915.

NO. 28

Championship in Track |Play By Local Talent

Events Won Dy Seniors

Sehnsen, Sor the Janiors, Sets
New Recerd Fer the Mile.

In the annual Inter-class Field Day
events, which were held on Monday, the
Seniors were the easy champions, win-
ning a total of 48 points. The Fresh

Tuniors third with 19 points, and the
Sophs last with 6 points. The feature
of the meet was the running of the mile
race by W. A. Johnson, of the Junior
class, who broke the Davidson record by
1:3-§ seconds.

This meet served a twofold purpose.
Not only did it determine the — class
championship, but it also served as a pre-
liminary contest in which those who shall

Is Decided Success

“A College Town” Enjoyed by Large
and Appreciative Audience.

With comic situations and dramatic
moments following in rapid succession,
and with a thread of charming romance
running through the whole, “A College
Town,” presented by local talent, com-
pletely captivated the. large audience
which filled Shearer Hall last Saturday
night. L. A. Mullen, as Leviticus, the
servant of the college boys, and R. C.
Jones, as Professor. Popp, an antiquated,
enpecked professor of Bexley College.
were the male stars of the evening; while
Miss Irene Foreman, as the diligent and
exacting wife of Professor Popp, and

Miss Caroline Hood, as the bewitching | Milton in his

represent Davidson in the meet ‘with| Miss Charming, took the leading female

South Carolina were selected.
who won first places in the various
events will constitute the Varsity track
team.

Unless ‘something unforeseen

won second place with 26 points;

“These froles.

The scene is laid in a college town
just before Bexley’s annual Thanksgiving
game, Jim Cavendish, foot ball star, so-

takes |cietv leader, and most. beguiling flirt: in

place. the first meer with the University college, finds himself confronted with

of South Carolina will be held in Cn-
lumbia on next Saturday, Mav 1. and
the second at Davidson on Saturdiiv.
Mav 8.

Gilchrist has been clected captain and
Norman Johnson manager of the team

The various events the winners of
first, second and third places, and the
highest records are given below. First
place in each of the events counts <
points, second place 3 points. and third
place 1 point.

100) ~Yard Dash — 1st. Gilchrist
(Sen.), 10 1-5 seconds: 2nd. Morris
(Jun.) : 3rd. Mattison (Soph. ).

Running High Jump—uist. Norm -
Johnson (Sen.). 5 feet & inches: 2°!
Anderson (Sen.): 3rd. Gilchrist (Sen. :

440 Yard Dash — 1st, Crouch
(Fresh.), 56 2-5 seconds; 2nd, Matti-

son (Soph.): ard, Smith, D. P.
(Fresh. ).
220 Yard Hurdle—rst. Gilchrist

(Sen.), 29 3-8 seconds; 2nd. Johnson.
N. (Sen.) : 3rd. Keesler, §. R. (Soph.).

Hammer Throw — tst.. Anderson
(Sen.), 80 feet 3 inches: 2nd, Van De-
vanter (Sen.) : 2rd, Whitesides (Fresh. )

Mile Race—sc-, Tohnson W. A.
(Tun.), 4 minutes. §7 2-5 seconds (a
new record)! and, Finley (Fresh.):
Hunter (Fresh: }.

220 Yard Dash — ast. Gilchrist
(Sen.). 24 2-5 secands: and. Morrisén
(Jun.) ; 3rd. McNeill (Fresh.).

Pole Vault—tst. Perry (Jun.) 10
feet; 2nd, Lawson (Fresh.) ; 3rd. Boggs
(Fresh. ).

Shot Put—tst. Van Devanter (Sen.).
39 fect 2 inches: 2nd, Anderson (Sen.);
3rd, Whitesides (Fresh.).

120 Yard Hurdle— ist. Johnson. N.
(Sen.), 19 4-§ seconds: 2nd. Worth
(Fresh.) ; 3rd. Anderson (Sen.).

One-half Mile— st, Crouch (Fresh. ).
2 minutes 13 3-5 seconds; and. Johnson,
W. A. (Jun.): 3rd. Clark (Fresh. ).

Broad Jump—Gilchrist (Sen.) 17
feet 8 inches: 2nd. Hampton (Soph.);
3rd, Lawson (Fresh.).

Tudges—T. G. Patton, W. L. Law,
and F. H. Smith. Scorekeepers—Halli-
burton and Paislev.

At a recent meeting of the Eu. So-
ciety, P. B. Price. the recently elected
Treasurer for next vear, handed in his
resignation of the office. After the resig-
nation was accepted the election of a
new treasurer was held, resulting in the
selection of B. F. Hagood, who will
serve in that capacity for the coming
vear.

ard,

expulsion for the misdeeds ot an even-
ing’s hilarious intoxication. “To prove
an alibi he claims to have been with his
Aunt Jane, a wealthy relative from
Wall Street. In the meantime he meet<
Miss Charming, a fascinating young
belle from Dixte. and at once falls ‘in
love with her. But to save him from
the threatened expulsion, friends under-
take to impersonate Miss Cavendish. and
Jim's ingenuity is taxed to explain the
presence of three aunts instead of one.
He triumphs, however, with a ready
flow of names; but later announces that
the other two have returned home, leav-
ing only the wealthy Aunt Jane. Mrs.
Popp entertains in her honor, and dur-
ing the evening Major Kilpepper, brath-
cr of Mrs. Popp, proposes to the sep-
posed Aunt, hoping. thus to secure his
endowment in a chair of military science.
Also during the evening the real Mis
Cavendish arrives, to the confusion of
lim and the imposter, who is Jim's
friend. “Pad Cheseldine.

Major Kilpepper is furious when he
learns of the deception, but he is soon
aueted by Tad. who threatens to run
the story of his proposal. in the college
comic paper.

Peace havine been thus established,
all turn out the following dav for the
game. Maior Kilpepper. is closely at-
tentive to Aunt Jane. while Jim alse
hopes for success elsewhere than on the
foot ball field. After an qxciting gan
Bexley comes off victorious. with Tim
the hero of the day. ‘he Major and
Aun: fane follow happily along with
the departing crowd, but the blunderify
levricus, chances upon Jim and Mr

{Charming lingering behind. and in h>

(Continued on page 4)

CAMPFIRE GIRLS ‘TO
GIVE ENTERTAINMENT

Saturday night. May 1, at 8 p. m.,, in
Shearer Hall, the Campfire Girls will
give an entertainment, under the man-
agement of Miss Irene Foreman. The
voung ladies taking part are as follows:
Misses Elizabeth Grey, Marie ‘Fhomp-
son, Dorothy Finlavson. Sarah Lingle,
Eloise Martin, Willie Campbell, Willic
Henderson. Miss Mary Parkes Grey
will take part in the folk dances. A
genuine Maypole dance will be given,
and this is said to he quite an important
feature of the. entertainment. Beautiful
costumes have been secured for the mo-
tion songs and campfire ballads. Tickets
may be obtained from any of the above
mentioned young ladies.

|

Series of Lectures

By Dr. Van Noppen The

Georgia Deleated By
Red and Black

Contsibations of Reich Writers te|/Dunn Unable te Held Presbyte-
the World's Literature Outlined. | rians-—Hengevell Hitting Star.

Dr. L. C. Van Noppen, Queen Wil-
hemina lecturer at Columbia University,
lectured here four times last week. His
paper Monday night was a general dis-
cussion of the literature ot Hotland,
especially during the Renaissance period.

On Tuesday, Dr. Van Noppen gave
an interecting lecture to the English
classes of the college, Dr. Fulton having
dispensed with regular recitations tor
the purpese. At this time Dr. Van Nop-
pen discussed the relations between Miul-
ton and the Dutch poet. Vondel. He
argued in quite a convincing manner that
masterpiece, “Paradise
Lost.” had received aid in general plot
and language from Vondel.

In the third lecture. delivered “Tues
dav afternoon, the life and work of Von
del was discussed. Vondel’s introduction
of the modern principle of free will into
the old Greek drama with its idea ot an
overruling destiny was shown. Vondel

was pictured as a satirist and his true

field of work was given as the sublime.

He also sang of noble deeds. and of ordi- |

nary things.

The last lecture of the series was de-
livered ‘Fuesdav evening.
voted mainly to a discussion of Van
Eden, a modern Dutch poet, and his
work. Tt was shown that the old school
of writers had found the beautiful in the
true, whereas Van Eden and his follow-

lers found the true in the beautiful.

Immediately after the last address
Dr. Van Noppen was given an informal
reception hy the Blue Pencil Club. in the
Pi Kappa Phi hall, punch and. cakes be-
ing served.

INTERESTING LECTURE
BY W. Y. SAYAD

An interesting ‘and instructive illus-
trated lecture on Persia was given last
‘Thursday night by William Y. Savad.
one of the students. Being a native at
Persia, he spoke with authority, and gave
first-hand information, which added
greatly to the interest and benefit of the
lecture. A large and appreciative audi
ence was present.

Sayad first gave a bnef.sketch ‘of the
history ot his country as an introduction,
and then some important. information
concerning the geographical teatures ot
Persia. A number of fine views were
then shown of the princigial Persian
cities, follawed by an intensely interes:
ing account of the customs of the natives
and of the Muhammedans.  ‘Vhe differ
ent religions—Mohammedanism, Zoro
astrism, and Devil Worship, were touch
ed upon and their relative importance

‘ishown.

The latter part of the lecture was
taken up entirely with the story of Chris-
tian missions in Persia, their great work,
and the effects upon the people of that
land; a description of the missionary
educational work was given of different
schools and colleges.

In concluding, Sayad spoke of the
great demand for strong missionary lead-
ers in Persia. The natives were com-
petent of propagating and extending the
work, but they needed to be led and
guided by wise and able Christian lead-
ers from our Christian land. The ap-
peal for these leaders was forceful and
strong, showing the earnestness of the
speaker.

The lecture was indeed a splendid one,
enjoyed by all present.

It was de. fhit

With a crippled line-up and dark
prospects for winning the game with the
niversity of Georgia, the Red and
Black nine sprung a surprise on the
Crackers and defeated them by the over-
whelming score of 9 to 4, last Thursday,
April 21, on Wearn Field, in Charlotte.
“he game belonged to the Presbyterians
from the beginning. Christenbury, the
lead-off man, singled over the keystone
sack in the initial inning, was forced to
second when Wood walked, and scored
on Hengeveld’s single. Wood was fore-
‘ed out at second. Hengeveld registered
the second run of the inning on Dunn's
error af an infield hit. moon
The Crackers scored their first in the
third. Hitchcock drew a free pass to
first, was sacrificed around to third and
scored on a wild throw,
— Davidson came back in their half of
the same inning and counted two more.
Alford singled and was safe at third on
Holden's error of Hengeveld's — roller;
both tallied when Groome singled.
Georgia counted one in the fourth and
another in the fifth. These came as a re-
sult of two errors, a wild throw and a

it.

The Red and Black registered two in
the fourth, one in the fifth, and two
more in the seventh. All of these were
due to hitting with men on bases.

Lawson twirled a beautiful game for
the Presbyterians. He allowed — the
Crackers only three hits. and but-one of
these was what ore might call a clean
single. He was effective at all stages of
the game and especially with men on
hases. Five men hit line drives to Al-
ford before the mighty breaking curves
of his. He was also tolerablv tight with
free nasses to the initial sack. since only
twa Crackers had this honor placed upon
them. '

Dunn started on the rubber for the
Uoiversitv, but was unable to hold the
Davidcon shigeers dawn. Thev found
him for thirteen safties in seven innings,
and all came when needed. with men on
bases, McWhorter. a hrother to the
famous Boh McWhorter, releved him
in the cighth, and be hel-lthe hitters hit-
less for the one inning that he delivered
the horschide.

Hengeveld was the star with che stick
for the dav. He journeved to the plate
four times and secured three singles.

Scere by innings: kotor
Davidean 202 710 2& 91% 7
V of Ga. #-- oor ro Ot0O— + 3 §

Summary:  Two-base hit. Gronme:
hase on balls, off Lawson 2. off Dunn tr;
struck aut, by Lawson s, by Dunn g. by
McWhirter 2: wild pitches. Dunn: hit

(Continued on page 4)

| CALENDAR OF Events. bd
* e
” Wednesdav April 28—S. C. at *
* — Rock Hill. °
“ Thursdav, April 2a—Y. M. C. A.. *
* Blue Ridve Slides. bd
* Saturday, Mav 1—Wofford on the *
* Hill.

* ~~ Fatertainment bv Campfire Girls. *
* Track Meet with S. C. at Co ®
* — lumbia. . e
* Mondav, May 2—Flection of Stu- ®
* dent Council Members from ®
* ~~ Junior Class. e
* Tuesday, Mav 4—Senior Exams ®
* — Berin. e
e 2 e e es @ e eo e e e

Im] See the Campfire Girls, Shearer Hall, Saturday Night CI
