The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. Hl.

Sophs Still Lead
in Class Basket Ball

Freshmen Defeat Juniors.

Only two games of the class basket
ball series were played during the past
week. The first was played on Thurs
day between the Juniors and the Fresh-
men, the Freshmen winning by the score
of 23 to 20. The game was not espe-
cially fast, but was hard fought, and
several good. plays were uncorked.
Nimocks. for the Freshmen. and
Young and Nisbet, for the Juniors.
played especially good games.

The line-up was as follows:

Freshmen (23) Position Juniors (20)
Hall... 2.0.2.2. Forward .... . Young
Nimocks....... Forward ..... Nishet
Williamson.....Center....... Price
McAskill...... Guard 2.2... Murray
Potts.......... Guard...... Keesler

Substitution: Porter for Price.

Referee: Perry ('16).

The second game of the week was

played Monday afternoon by the Junior
and Senior teams, the Seniors winning
by the score of 23 to 22. The game was
close, although not very fast. During
the first part of the the game the Jun-
iors led, the score at the end of the first
half being 11-10; and in the second half
the Juniors had an apparently safe mar-
gin, but toward the latter part the Sen-
iors began pulling up, and in the last half
minute of play Perry. of the Seniors.
managed to make the deciding goal.

The line-up was as follows:

Seniors (23) Position Juniors (22)

Hoyt.......... Forward ..... Young

Perry... ....... Forward... .. Nishet

Dumas. ........ Center. ..... Porter

Fdgerton.......Guard .. 0... Keesler

Partton.........Guard . 2... Murrav
Referee: Reese ('17).

The respective standings of the teams

are as follows:

Won. Lost. Pet.
Sophs 4 1 800
Fresh 4 4 .500
Seniors 3 4 430
Juniors 3 4 430

after the speaking, there will be staged
an exhibition basket ball game between
the Sophs and Freshmen. This game
will be played in the Gymnasium at

4:30.

BASKET BALL TEAM
GOES TO STATESVILLE

A basket ball team composed of those
men who are not out for foot ball plaved
Statesville last Friday night on their
floor. It was a close and hard fought
game to the tune of 25 to 26, with the
outcome undecided to the very last. The
team from Davidson clearly outpassed the
Statesville team, but Were weak in shoot-
ing goals. after working the ball to their
basket. This was due to the lack of prac-
tice as they were onlv out a few nights.
Statesville has a crack team this year
composed of “Dummy” Newman, who
plaved base ball for them this summer.
and who played professional basket ball
in Ohio last winter: Kimball, of last
vear’s Trinity team; Brady. of Union
Seminary team: Gill, of A. & M. team;
and Guy. This team plays on the Dav-
idson floor December 7.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 24, 1915.

No. 11.

{Senior Speaking Begins |Reception and Concert Annual Davidson-Wake

On Friday Afternoon} To Be Given at Queens| Forest Game Tomorrow

In Very Close Contests Seniers and|Class of Speakers This Year Is|Invitation Received By the Student |The Teams Evenly Matched---Close

Larger Than Usual.

‘Thursday there will be no reci-
tations. Pravers as usual. Church
at to. Attendance not compulsory.

Friday —AlI] classes as usual.
Only those Seniors who speak
Thursday afternoon are excused
from classes from ti am (Friday).

Saturday—No classes, but pray-
ers as usual,

Friday, 2:30 p.m.—Speaking.

Friday, 4:30 p.m.—Gymn [cxhibit.

Friday, 8:00 p.m.—Speaking.

Friday. 9:30 p. m—Y. M,C. A. Re
ception,

Saturday, 10:30 a, m.—Speaking.

Saturday, 2:30 p. m.—Speaking.

Saturday, 4:30 p. w.—Basket ball.

Saturday, 8:00 p. m.—Lyceum.,

Saturday, 10:00 p. m.—Frraternity Re
ceptions.

Senior Speaking this year is to see the
largest number of speakers in recent
years, forty-eight. The present Senior
class has always been a strong one in lit-
erary and forensic lines, and their ora-
torical exercises ‘give promise of being
ahove the average. During tts four year
sojourn: at Davidson, this class has won
the majority of all medals to which it
was eligible, developing some of — the
strongest speakers in college.

The festivities of the occasion are like
wise to be unusual. The time-honored
Senior reception is to be omitted, since a
farewell reception is held at Commence-
ment, and its place is to be taken by a
house-warming in the new Y. M. C. A.
social center.

The last of the furniture for the
room, which is on the second floor of the
Y. M. C. A. building, has at last ar
rived and has heen installed. The re
cently organized Ladies’ Auxiliary, com
posed of the ladies of the town who are
‘interested in the Y. M,C. A. activities.
has very generously furnished curtains
for the room, and is planning to give it
as home-like an appeatance as possible.
Pennants and pictures are to be placed
on the walls, and a Victrola is to be add-
ed. The reception will be a formal one.
with the ladies of the Auxiliary and the
members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet in
the receiving line.

Friday afternoon will) witness the
usual Gym exhibit. ‘The team is com-
posed of those members of last year’s
team who have returned to school, and is
materially the same as last year. They
have been practicing for some time, and
a good exhibit is expected.

Saturday afternoon there will be an
exhibition game of basket hall between
two of the class teams. The proceeds
will go toward banqueting the two win-
ning teams of the class series.

That night there will be a Lyceum
attraction in the chapel, the first of the
season. The number is to he a musical
one by the Hampton Court Singers, with
a company of five, featuring a mixed
quartet.

The ladies who are expected to be in
attendance during the speaking are as
follows:

(Continued on page 4)

Body and Unanimously Accepted.

The crowning event of ‘Thanksgiving
Day in Charlotte for Davidson students
will be the concert given by the David-
son Orchestra and Glee Club at Queens
College that night. This concert will
he followed by a general reception ten
dered to the Davidson | students — by
Queens College.

Vhe Orchestra and Glee Club has
heen looking forward to this concert for
some time, and in anticipation of it has
been practicing daily for the past few
weeks. At the concert given on the Hill
Saturday night both organizations shaw
ed good training, and were appreciated
by an audience of -both students and
town people. Practice has been resum
ed this week and the leaders hope to be
able to give an exceptionally good en
tertainment in Charlotte.

The concert will begin at 8 o'clock
‘Thursday evening in the auditorium of
Queens College and will last ahout an
hour and a half. “The reception will fol
low immediately after. The | student
hady received an invitation to this. re
ception last week. and it was unanimous
ly accepted. Tt is expected that the stu
dents, remembering the hospitality of the
Queens College girls during the past, will
he present in goodly numbers as many
will be in Charlotte that day for the foot
hall game. The general admission to the
concert will be 50 cents.

Y.M.C. A. MEETING.

At the meeting of the Y. M. C. A.
last Thursday night, Mr. W. C. Smith
of Richmond, Va., was the speaker. He
gave an interesting talk, takin as his
subiect, “The One. ‘Talented Man.”

He pointed out that while some nay
think they are not as fortunate as other
men in the possession of talents, vet they,
of all men, should tink what they have
to God: No matter haw small or how
few they are, He can do miracles with
them.

Quoting Tohn R. Mort, the ‘Phe
greatest eracin lives of men will be dur
ing the next ten vears,.’ Mr. Smith
showed the need of men who have back

one to carry on this great work. All
are rich in talents, and when the final
reckoning time comes. each must give
hack his talents. and give a full account
of what he has done with them.

PLANS FOR FOOT BALL
SCHEDULE UNDER WAY

Negotiations are under way to have
an annual game with Clemson in Green
ville, S. C., about November 14 of each
vear. The alumni of both Clemson and
Davidson are numerous in and around
Greenville and a very attractive offer has
been made the association. In place of
the old contract to play Clemson on the
Hill every other year the association is
trving to get a reciprocating contract
with V. M.T. They will play us on the
Hill next vear and we will play them in
Lexington the following vear. [Ti has
been several years since Davidson has
had a contract with V. M. T., and a game
with them will prove to be a very in
teresting one.

Contest Is Expected.

Both the teams and the student bodies
of Davidson and Wake Forest are ready
tor the annual game in Charlotte tomor-
row afternoon,

For over eight years these two colleges
have met in) Charlotte, and for eight
years the Red and Black has come off
victorious. The game this year will be
of more interest than of any year prev-
ious. Last vear Wake Forest came near-
ev defeating the Red and Black than in
any game previous in the history of ath-
letics between the two institutions, los-
ing by the score of 6-7. ‘This year Wake
Forest has one of the best teams the col-
leve has ever put out, but about the same
thing can be said of Davidson,

If the comparative scores of the Caro-
lina game he taken into consideration the
two teams seem to be about evenly
mitched. North Carolina won from
Wake Forest 35-0 and from Davidson
41-6. Bur comparative scores cannot
alwavs be taken to represent the com-
parative strength.

The game this vear will be of special
interest as Wake Forest will have two of
Davidsons old stars lined up with her.
Witherington, more commonly known as
“Dutch.” will end his foor ball career at
Wake Forest with the game tomorrow,
Ditch was for two years one of David-
son’s mainstays in both offensive and de-
fensive work. Tn the game last vear he
was the best ground gainer the Yellow
Jackets had. This vear he is going bet-
ter than ever. ‘“Witherington's kicking
and ability to handle the opposing team's
punts,” writes a Wake Forest critic,
“amakes him a tower of strength for his
team.”

The other former Davidson watrior is
“Nasty” Howell, the ex-captain and star
tackle of the Red and Black for three
years,

Thursdav’s game will also be the last
for “Make” Billings, the Baptist’s quar-
ter, Billings is) plaving exceptionally
wood ball this year, ‘especially in broken
field running.

The list of eligible men was late in
arriving, but the probable line-up for
Wake Forest will be: Ends, Holding
and Harris: tackles, Moore and How-
ell; guards, Olive and Blackman: cen-
ter, Langston or Carter; quarter, Bil-
lings: full back, Witherington; half
hacks, Parker and Pace.

The Yellow Tackets held their last
scrimmage Saturday. The few remain-
ing days will be spent in signal practice
and light work.

The Davidson students will go down
on the reeular morning train, returning
on a special that will leave after the re-
ception that night. Round trip fare will
he 75 cents, and athletic tickets will be
good for the game.

ANNUAIL. PFACE CONTEST.

The annual Peace Contest which is
usually held one week after Senior
Sneaking, has. by the vate af the contest-
ants, been postponed till the first week
after Christmas. Anvone is cligible to
enter. The winner will renresent Dav
idsan in the annual State Contest which
will he held in cither Raleigh or Durham
early in February.
