The DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 17, 1915.

Vol. III.

Week of Prayer
For Young Men

Opportunity Given for Davidson
Students to Aid War Sufferers.

During this week. which is set apart
by the Student Y. M. C. A.’s as a week
of prayer for young men, it seems very
fitting that the men of Davidson make

a voluntary thank offering for the work:

of the Young Men's Christian Associa-
tion among the men under arms and
those in the hospitals and prisons of
Europe.

Mr. John R. Mott, Secretary of the
World’s Student Christian Federation,
makes the following appeal for this
thank offering on the part of the stu-
dents of this country: ‘The needs and
opportunities of our fellow students in
the Christian Student Movements of
Europe present an irresistible call to the
students and professors of America.
Never before has our help been so much

needed and probably never again in all:

the coming years will there be such a
demand made for our sympathy and
practical co-operation. It is an oppor-
tunity for us to show the reality of our
Christian faith and of our Christian
love. I confess at times with sinking of
heart that my solicitude in these days
is not for the students of the lands now
at war. They are stirred to the deepest
depths and are placing themselves with
all their power at the disposal of their
nations and in the service of their ideals.
Neither is my anxiety for the students
of the neutral countries near the war
theatre, for they have entered to a won-
derful degree into fellowship with the'r
fellow students in the countries at war
and are secking to help them. My fear
is for the students of America, lest in
this dark hour of the world’s need we
may be indifferent or callous to the
claims of our fellow students in Europe
and not enter sufficiently into fellowship
with their sufferings and into co-oper-
ative effort to enable them to meet their
opportunities. If thev are willing to
give their lives and all that they possess
for their ideals, should we not show a
like ability to denv ourselves for the sake
of rendering unselfish service?”

An opportunity will be given the
Davidson men on Thursday to make a
free-will offering to this great cause
which should appeal so strongly to each
man in the student body. Small en-
velopes will be placed in each room of
the dormitories and the men are asked
to place in them the amount of their
gift and drop the sealed envelope in
boxes which will be placed on the front
of each dormitory. It is not desired that
any names be put on the envelopes. It
would he far better for each man in the
student body to give a small amount
than for a number of men to give large
amounts and the others give nothing.
At the Y. M. C. A. meeting Thursdav
night the amount of the offering will
be announced. It is hoped that the Dav-
idson men will join heartily in a volun-
tary offering for such a worthy cause.

The friends of Miss Fanny McBride
will be interested to hear that she is get-
ting along well and is improving rap-
idly. She has been in the Presbyterian
Hospital of Charlotte, and it is hoped
that she will return to Davidson shortly.

Erskine and Davidson
Divide Tennis Mateh

/Former Wins Doubles After Hard
Fight But Loses Singles.

The tennis match between Davidson
and Erskine College was plaved here
last Wednesday and Thursday. In the
doubles, played Wednesday. Galloway
and Bowden, representing Erskine, car
ried off the honors by defeating Saund-
ers and Alford in one of the hardest
fought contests ever witnessed here. “The
former won the first two sets, but Saund-
ers and Alford made a great rally, and
won the. next two sets. From then on
it was mip and tuck, Davidson's repre-
sentatives keeping ahead until the very
last. To show how close the match was.
at one time the matter of one point
would. have decided it in our favor. But
it was destined not so ta be, and Gallo-
way and Bowden, by hard, consistent
playing, gradually pulled themselves up
and won the set and match.

In the singles. played Thursday, the
game took a different aspect, Saunders
defeating Galloway in straight — sets.
From the first Saunders clearly outplay-
ed his opponent. and at no time was he
in any great danger of defeat. Saunders
won the first set 6-1. But in the second
set he ran up against harder plaving.
and nearly every game ran into deuce.
Saunders finally won 6-4. In the third
set Galloway seemed to give down, and
Saunders won by 6-2.

Nevertheless the match as a_ whole
was hard. fought and interesting, and
was not nearly as one-sided as the score
seems to indicate.

Both matches were watched with in-
terest by large crowds of enthusiasts.

Schedule of Events
For Senior Speaking

Lyceum, Gym Exhibit, Y..M. C. A.
and Frat. Recitations.

Preparations for Senior Speaking have
been completed, and the schedule is as
follows: The first speeches will be de-
livered on the afternoon of Friday, No-
vember 26, and the exercises will con-
tinue that night and the next morning.
concluding on the afternoon of the 27th.
Friday afternoon the Gym team will
give an exhibition in Shearer Hall. That
night, after the speaking, the Y. M. C.
A. will hold a reception. Saturday night
the first Lyceum number of the season
will be given in Shearer Hall. This is
an unusually good attraction and is sure
to please every one. Fach of the five
performers is an artist, and no one
should miss this opportunity to hear the
old English Motion Songs. Saturday
night. after the Lyceum. comes the gen-
eral Fraternity reception.

The students and the community alike
extend their sympathy to Mrs. A. B.
Robson in the loss of her sister, Miss
Lula Baskerville. Though Miss Bas-
kerville has been ill for some time, news
of her death was received with deep re-
egret and surprise by her friends. Mrs.
Robson attended the funeral, near
Hampden-Sydney, Va.

Horner Again Loses
To Davidson Scrubs

Unable te Pierce Scrub Defense---
Hines Makes 70-Yard Run.

The Davidson Scrubs took the second
game with Horner on Friday by a score
of 42-7. The Horner Cadets played a
hard game, but were no match for the
Davidson Scrubs, who ripped open their
line and circled their ends at will. ‘he
Davidsonians ran ‘excellent interference
which the Horner boys seemed powerless
to stop. ‘Phe. Cadets were unable to
make any appreciable pains, registering
only two first downs. In the first two
minutes of the play King intercepted a
forward pass and ran 30 yards for a
touchdawn, The Cadets’ only ‘touch-
down came in the first quarter, when
Hines received the ball on the kick-off
and ran through the Scrubs for 70 yards
and a touchdown.

For Davidson, Ives. Crouch, Hill,
Fowle and Burns plaved a good game :
for Horner, Hines, Cleek and Weston
were the stars,

Vhe Davidsem Scrubs were weak on
kicking field goals, not being able to kick
a single ane out of seven attempts.

The line-up:

Davidson. Position. Tlorner.
Miller.......... | Onn .. Smith
Shaw..........0D9T 00. ..... Masses
Adams. ......... LG... 2... Redwyne
King... 2.0.0... LE... 2. Lyndsey
Paisley. ....... WRG... Bryan
Finley. ......... RT ,.. 2... Cherry
Law... 0.0... RE... .. Alexander
Ives.......... o .Q we eee. Woolcott
Fowle.......... RH......... Cheek
Burns. ......... LH... 0.0... Hines
Hill, Crouch. 0... FB... 02... Westen

Hon. W. J. Bryan
Delivers Address

Introduction By Dr. Martin---Dav-
idson Students Attend.

A rare opportunity of hearing one of
the greatest orators and statesmen of
America was taken advantage of by a
part of the student bedy when they went
to Charlotte Monday evening to hear
Hon. Wm. J. Bryan. — After fitting
words of introduction by President
Martin, of Davidson, Mr. Bryan pro-
ceeded, in a wasterly way, to unfold his
subject, ‘The European War and Its
Lessons For Us.”

In a brief, clear-cut manner he gave
his subject in outline: (1) ‘The War
As It Is, (2) The False Philosophy of
the War, (4) The Way or Road Out.
Among other. things he said: “If pre-
paredness would prevent war, then there
would be no war in Europe today. If
Europe had spent one-tenth as much in
promoting friendship as it has in war
there would have been no war. War is
caused by the false philosophy, ‘Might
makes right.’ The fears of those who
thought that he would criticise Wilson
were utterly dispelled when, amid ap-
plause, he said: “I join the American
people in thanking God that we have a
man in the White House who does not
want war and who is doing what he can
to prevent war.”

Red and Black Out

No. 10.

Played by Carolina

Superior Weight and Experience
Too Much for Davidson Line.

‘Through superior weight and experi-
ence and the sensational playing of Mc-
Donald, Carolina triumphed over the
Red and Black in the annual game in
Winston-Salem on Saturday by a score
of 41-6. The Davidson line was unable
to stap the rushes of the heavy Blue and
White, and their backs would get
through fer repeated gains time after
tine, “The old Davidson spirit and
“pep” were there, and the boys worked
steadily and hard throughout the entire
game, but to no avail.

The game opened with a rush, ‘Vandy,
of Carolina, kicking off to Black, who
returned 15 yards. After failure to gain
through the line the ball was punted 40
yards by R. Walker. Carolina alse
failed to gain and punted. A 30-yard
gain by Laird, a 15-yard pass. Lawson
to Younger, a 20-yard run by Long, of
Carolina, and an exchange of punts. re-
sulted in the placing of the ball near the
center of the field before the quarter
ended. Soon after the opening of the
second quarter successive line plunges by
McDonald and Reid, Carolina scored
her first touchdown and Tandy kicked
goal. A few minutes later Tandy tried
a drop kick from the Davidsan 40-yard
line but failed by scarcely a foot. Again
plunges and end runs by McDonald and
Reid resulted in a touchdown, — after
which Tandy kicked goal.

Grav kicked off to the Carolina 20-
yard line and the ball was returned 15
vards by Blades, substituting for Mc-
Donald. Failing to gain. Long punted
to the Davidson to-vard line and Fowle,
for Davidson, also punted, Carolina get-.
ting the ball on the 42 yard line. After
shart gains by Reid and Tayloc, Black
intercepted a forward pass and went to
the Carolina 45-vard line before being
dawned. The Blue and White line held
and Lawson was forced to kick. He
attempted.a drop kick, which was block-
ed hy Homewood, who went for a
touchdown: Tandy kicked goal. After
Gray had kicked to the 30-yard line a
forward pass, Long to Reid, netted Caro-
line 25 vards, but a little later Long
was forced to punt, the hall going over
the goal line. Tt was, then Davidson's
ball on her own 20-vard line. The half
ended after a 97-yard gain by Black.

Gray opened the second half with a
kick to the Carolina 20-yard line. After
making first down through = gains: by
Tavloe and McDonald, Carolina again
punted, and after no gain Davidson
punted also. McDonald and Parker
gained 2§ yards and Tandy again tried
another drop kick but failed. Davidson
punted out of danger to the so-vard line.
Here Long and McDonald executed a °
forward pass for a gain of 25 yards and
immediately after McDonald went over
for another touchdown, Tandy kicking
goal. Gray kicked off ta the Carolina
2s-vard line, and on their failure to
gain Tong punted 36 vards to Lawson,
who was downed by Ramsey. Failing to
gain, Walker punted 20 vards to Long,
who was dawned hy White. In quick
succession Parker. McDonald and Tay-
loe by repeated plunges gained a total of
30 yards before the quarter ended. At

(Continued on page 4)
