The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

Inspiring Sermons
Delivered Sunday

Dr. Leyburn and Dr. Wilson Ad-
dress Seniors and Y. M. C. A.

A few minutes before 11 o'clock Sun-
day morning the graduating class, in
caps and gowns. marched in procession
from Shearer Hall to the church for the
Baccalaureate Sermon. The sermon
was preached by Rev. E. R. Leyburn,
D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian
church of Durham. He was introduced
by Dr. C. M. Richasds, in a few fitting
words. Dr. E. P. Davis ((73). of Green-
ville, led in praver, after the reading of
the Scripture.

Dr. Levburn's text was Matt. 25:21:
“Well done thou good and_ faithful
servant.” The theme was “The Suc:
cessful Life, What It Is. and How It
Is to Be Attained ?” ;

All of us wish the highest possible
success in life. said Dr: Leyburn. We
may differ widely as to what constitutes
success and how it is to be attained, but
all desire success. Standing today at
the end of your college course, it is well,
young men, to pause and ask: What
then is success? What do we mean by
the successful life? This is the first
question to settle. .

Success in life does not necessarily
mean making money. I could name
scores of men and women who have
made the highest and truest success of
life, but who lived and died at last in
poverty. There are men who have made
money and have also made a complete
failure of life as God looks at it, and as
God reckons success and failure. Not
what we get, but what we become; not
what we have but what we are; not
‘what we lay up for ourselves but wha‘

-we lav out for God and our fellow
men: these are the things that really
count in life. ;

Neither does making a success in life
necessarily mean making a name_ for
one’s self. and getting the honors of the
world. Manv of the world’s greatest
and most truly successful men never
held a public office and never saw their
names in a newspaper or magazine.
suppose there is hardly a man in Amer-

ica who has had more printed about him
in the last ten years and whose photo-
graph has appeared oftener than Harry
Thaw, and vet I suppose there is hardly
another man on our continent who has
made a more complete and pitiable fail-
ure of his life than he.

Neither does making a success in life
mean the carrving out of the most cher-
ished plans of life, and reaching the goal
we have set for ourselves. Moses never
reached Canaan. General Lee had to
surrender at Appomattox. Tack Johnson
and Tess Willard have reached the goal
of their ambition, but they are not a
success in life, for their success depended
upon the nearness with which they ap-
proached the brute.

“Not failure but low aim is crime.”

What then is success? What is the
successful life? It means fulfilling per-
fectly God’s plan_and purpose for the
life. Being all God wants us to be,
doing all God wants us to do. Talents
have been committed to our keeping. At
the end of life's dav the reckoning will
come. Each will be rewarded, not in
proportion to what was given him in
the beginning. but in proportion to the
use he has made of it. ‘The man who
had received two talents received just as
great a reward as the man who was
given five talents. because they were
equally faithful. Many of the world’s
greatest men were men whom their fel-
Iews lonked upon as one talent men,
who bv their energy and zeal and en-

(Continued on page 4)

Reunion ol Socie-
ties Feature Monday

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 29, 1915.

ISeniors Hold Sway
in Tuesday Program

Edmunds Orator--Gym Exbibit and | Senior Orations in Morning---Class

Concert Other Events.

The program for the second day of
Commencement week. Mondav. the
24th, included the gymnasium exhibit
in the morning, the concert given by
the Davidson Orchestra: and Glee Club
in the afternoon, and the reunion of
the two literary societies at night.

The distinctive literary event of the
dav was the address before the Eumen-
ean and Philanthropic literary societies,
in Shearer Hall, by Prof. S. H. Ed-
munds, of Sumter, §. C., a loyal alum-
nus of the class of 1890. The subject
of his splendid practical address, deliv-
ered with ease and force, was ‘Some of
Life's Graces and Virtues.”

The first of these which he pictured
was “humor.” It has its place in every
normal and healthy life. Wit appeals
to the intellect, humor to the emotions.
Humor therefore never leaves a sting,
while wit often does. Sarcasm is a form
of wit, which from its derived meaning
shows its brutality, tearing the flesh.
Humor is a saving sense and therefore
a-needful quality in life. Professor Ed-
munds here told three stories of humor
to test the audience’s possession of this
saving sense.

Pathos is a virtue and grace allied
with humor. One who is truly humor-
ous always has a pathetic sense. There
is no grace that vields a larger practical
dividend than courtesv, the courtesy
which comes from a kindliness of heart
and manifests itself in graces of gen-
tility. Courtesy increases with great-
ness. Discourtesvy arises from three
things—-a false belief in the lack of
time. in the want of thought, and the
belief that courtesy means servility.
Courtesy is nobility.

The mad rush after the almighty dol-
lar and the consequent materialism has
given this age the air of irreverence.
It is the dutv of the school and the home
to cultivate reyerence. This can be done
by teaching a sense of reverence for
parents, sacred things, for women, for
one's superiors, for our bodies and
finally for God. ,

The history of the world has been a
series of quests, quests for power and
riches, honor and pleasure. The Holv
Grail tvpifies the religious quest, the
Holy Sepulchre. religious patriotism.
The greatest of all quests is the search
after the unattainable, infinite truth.
Finite truth, however, can be attained
and manifests itsel fin sincerity, honor
and civic righteousness,

The resultant of all these graces and
virtues is manhood. To sav that a man
is a manly man is the highest compli-
ment that can be paid a man, unless it
he to say that he is a gentleman. How
shall we attain these virtues? By grace
and by work. Work makes us victor-
ious. Labor, well directed, systematic
and conscientious alone surmounts all
difficulties, and makes a man a gentle-
man of graces and virtues.

REUNIONS HELD.

Immediately after Professor Ed-
mund's address the societies retired to
their respective halls, where the annual
reunions were held. In the Eumenean
society, the Valedictorv was delivered
bv Norman Johnson, of Atlanta, in an
eloquent and earnest manner. .
Patton, of the Junior class. responded
with well chosen words. and delivered
the diplomas of the societv to the foal-
lowing men: W. A. McIlwaine, C. M.
Gibbs. Norman Tohnson. Alfred Scar-
borough, M. A. Boggs, W. M Shaw,

(Continued on page 4)

Day Exercises Impressive.

Tuesday was filled almost to the last
minute with different events, the meet-
ing of the Board of ‘Trustees and the
Senior Orations in the morning, — the
meeting of the Alumni Association and
the Class Dav Exercises in the_after-
noon, and the Junior Oratorical Contest
followed by the Alumni Reception at
night. .

MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES.

At the meeting of the Board of Trus-
tees, Prof. W’.W Wood, B.A. and C.F.
of the University of Virginia, was elect-
ed to the chair of Associate Professor of
Applied Mathematics which will be left
vacant by Dr. Wunder next Fall. It
was decided to connect Shearer Hall
with the central heating plant and to
install steam heat in the chemical labor-
atory. A residence for Dr. Arbucxle
will be erected at once, and later, one
for Dr. Sentelle. It was also decided to
pav the expenses of the trustees attend-
ing future meetings. A_ special resolu-
tion was also passed endorsing. in hearty
terms THE Davinsonian, and a hearty
stamp .of approval was placed on the
campaign for $100,000 now going on,
of which $67,000 has already been
raised.

SENIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST.

This event opened the public program
for the day. Prof. M. G. Fulton pre-
sided. After the invocation by Dr. B.
F. Wilson, and orchestral music, J. W.
S. Gilchrist was introduced as the first
speaker, his subject being ‘‘Kipling's
Message.” In his speech he made a

reful analysis of the things for which
Kipling stands. H. B. Overcash, third
honor man, spoke next, on “Conserva-
tion of Our Natural Resources.” F.
W. Price, second honor man, made a
ringing speech on “The Man_ Behind
the Degree,” voicing an appeal for an
educational system that shall give to
everv man the proper development, min-
imizing no side of his life. Alfred
Scarborough made a forceful speech on
“Americanism,” pointing out the dang-
ers that beset it. and urging that it be
preserved inviolate. G. W. Gignilliat,
first honor man, had as his subject “The
Thief,” putting his oration in the form
of an address to a jury sitting in judg-
ment on a vouthful human wreck, cail-
ing attention to the causes of the youth’:
degredation. Norman Johnson — spoke
last on “America's New Slogan and
Mission,” making an eloquent presenta-
tion of America’s mission to show to the
nations the path of heroic peace.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF DISTINCTIONS AND
PRESENTATION OF TROPHIES
AND MEDALS.

Immediately after the Senior Orations
Dr. T. W. Lingle announced the dis-
tinctions in scholarship for the past year
and in the case of the Senior class, for
the four years: Mr. T. K. Currie then
presented the athletic trophies, the class
foot ball championship cup to the Junior
and Sophomore teams. who had tied for
the championship. The base ball cup
went to the Sophomore class,_and the
track cup to the Senior class, who had
won it twice before.

Dr. B. F. Wilson next presented the
medals, intercollegiate debater’s em-
blems, for the Clemson-Davidson de-
bate to U. S. Alexander and C. H.
Rowan; for the Emorv-Davidson de-
hate. to F. W. Price and F. H. Smith:
Fresh-Soph declaimer’s medals to L. A.
Chambliss (Eu.), and J. A. Thames

(Continued on page 4)

NO. 32

Wednesday Program
Furnishes Climax

Dr. H. L. Smith Speaks---Degrees
Conferred---Prizes Awarded.

The climax of the four-day program
of Davidson's seventy-cighth Commence-
ment. was reached in the Commencement
Dav Exercises on Wednesday morning,
Mav 26. Dr. W. L. Lingle, in behalf
of the Board of Trustees, reviewed in
glowing terms the work of the year com-
pleted, predicting larger and__ better
work; President W. J. Martin announc-
ed that the campaign for $100,000 ad-
ditional endowment: has resulted — in
pledges already secured amounting to
$66,000; thirtysfive Seniors _ received
diplomas for having successfully. com-
pleted their four years’ work; the day
was one to arotise the enthusiasm and
kindle the hopes of alumni, faculty, stu-
dents and friends.

The outstanding features of the for-
mal exercises of the day were the aca-
demié procession, the annual literary ad-
dress by Dr. Henry Louis Smith. Pres-
ident of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity; the presentation of medals, prizes
and diplomas, and the salutatory and
valedictory, by F. W. Price and G. W
Gignilliat, the second and first honor
men, respectively, of the graduating
class.

ACADEMIC PROCESSION.

At 10:30 a. m. the academic proces-
sion formed between the Library Build-
ing and Shearer Hall. First marched
the undergraduates, then the alumni in
order of classes, beginning with the ones
most recently graduated. These parted
into two rows just before Chambers,
through which the trustees, the graduat-
ing class, the speaker and president, and
faculty members passed. Fach of these
hudies was led by a marshall. The Sen-
iors were led by Chief Marshall F. W.
Price, and the Valedictorian, G. W.
Gignilliat. Riggs McConnell, the popu-
lar little mascot of the class, marched
with the graduates, in cap and gown.

DR. SMITH’S ADDRESS.

After music and invocation, the salu-
tatory was delivered by Price.
To the Davidson that was and is, and is
to be, he welcomed all.

It was wonderfully appropriate then
that the Annual Commencement address
should be delivered by Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, formerly President of Davidson
and now President of Washington and
Lee. The class of farg is the last class
which knew him as President of David-
son. As Dr. Smith expressed it, “It is
the dast class of my adoption at David-
son.

Dr, Smith was introduced by Dr.
Martin in words full of praise and feel-
ing, warm, hearty and generous, ring-
ing with the note of strong friendship.

(Continued on page 2)

* * * * * e * . 4

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
ENDORSES DAVIDSONIAN

The Board of Trustees at its
meeting Tuesdav morning, May
25. passed the following resolu-
tion: That after hearing with
interest a representative of THE
Davinsonian Staff. the Board
heartily commends the Davidson
students for their enterprise in
establishing and maintaining this
weekly.

This action is deeply appreci-
ated by the board of editors and
the students of Davidson.

eS eeeee es een ee eae e ey
o@ee@ep eee ees e eee en tes eae ¢

a . e .
