The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. HI.

Student Body Holds
An Important Meeting

Officers Elected and Other Matters
Taken Up.

At a meeting of the Student Bodv
Monday morning. the following officers
were elected for the year 1916-17:
President, A. B. Reese, Jr.. °173 Vice-
Presidents, J. M. Black, °18, and ,F. W.
Hengeveld. '18; Secretary and ‘Treasur-
er, J. W. McAlister, ’19.

In addition to electing officers, the
blanket fee and point system for David-
son were discussed and approved. By
an almost unanimous vote approval was
given to the proposed blanket fee system,
by which each student pays to the college
treasurer, along with other college fees.
the sum of six dollars and a quarter and
is thereby entitled to a season Athletic
Association ticket to games on the Hill,
to Y. M. C. A. membership, and to sub-
scriptions to the three college publica-
tions, THe Davinsoxniax, the Maga-
zine, and the Annual.

The report on the blanket fee system
was made by L. A, Mullen, chairman of
the committee which was appointed last
year to investigate the system as used at
other colleges and work out the details.
This committee voted unanimously to
recommend the change to the student
body on all of the items except the
Magazine, and that then a vote be taken
on the question of including it. After
some discussion the recommendation was
passed and by a separate vote the Maga-
zine was included in the fee.

Before this fee can be finally adopte !
and listed in the college catalog it must
be approved by the Board of ‘Trustees
of the college. The overwhelming vote
of the student body indicates their atti-
tude toward the matter and it is earn-
estly hoped that the Trustees will act
favorably.

At the same meeting of the student
body the question of instituting a point
system in the Davidson student body was
reported by T. D. Sparrow, as chairman
of a committee which had been appointed
to work up information and data on the
plan. According to this system each
holder of an office will be limited to a
certain number of units, each office being
rated at a number of units proportionate
to the work and responsibility. After
some discussion this new move was also
adopted by a large majority, and the
Student Council was given power to fix
the scale of units at which the officers
will be rated, subject to approval by the
student body.

This plan will eliminate the burden-
ing of a small group of men with the
bulk of the work and will more evenly
divide the offices among the students.

TENNIS MATCH WITH
ELON ON FRIDAY

Davidson will meet Elon College in a
tennis match Friday afternoon at 2:30.
Both doubles and singles will be played,
and the match should prove interesting
in every way. A return match will be
played at Elon May 12. The games
will be plaved on the championship
court, and it is hoped a large crowd will
attend. Davidson's team will be com-
posed of Saunders and T. A. Finley.

| Junior-Senior Debate

Held Last Night

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C., MAY 3, 1916.

No. 29

Minstrel Entertainment (Great Record Made

Given Monday Night

By Red and Black

Annual Contest Results In Victory|Large Crowd Enjoys Evening of | Seven Straight Victories Are Won

for the Philanthropic.

The Junior-Senior debate was held
last night in Shearer Hall and resulted
in victory for the Philanthropic Society.
The Eumenean Society, represented by
A. R. Craig, L. G. Edgerton and R.
Perry, upheld the affirmative side of the
question: ‘Resolved, That an amend-
ment should be made to the Federal Con-
stitution forbidding the sale of intoxicat-
ing liquors in the United States.” The
negative was defended by R. H. Ratch-
ford, H. W. Ormand and J. D. Mc-
Leod, representing the Philanthropic
Society.

The individual debater’s medal was
won.by L. G. Edgerton, in the Eumen-
ean Society, and R. H. Ratchford, of the
Philanthropic Society,

Craig opened the debate with a short
explanation ‘of the question and a historv
of National Prohibition. Edgerton fol-
lowing on the affirmative, argued that
since present methods have been ineffect-
ual in the.past, they will be ineffectual
in the future if no change is made.
Perry closed. the argument for the affir-
mative by showing what National Pro-
hibition would do for the country.

Ratchford, first for the negative.
argued that Prohibition is not a Na-
tional issue. The main point the next
speaker. H. W. Ormand, brought out
was that National Prohibition would be
ineffective in promoting real temperance.
He also argued that it would be detri-
mental to the cause of good government.
McLeod, the last speaker of the nega-
tive, closed their argument by pointing
out the defects in the present Federal
Constitution. He proposed other meth-
ods of governing the Prohibition ques-
tion.

TRACK MEET WITH CLEMSON

All forms of inter-collegiate athletics
will be brought to a close for the year
on Saturday afternoon, Mav 13th. when
the Clemson track team comes to David
son for a meet. The Tigers have been
doing good work on the cinder path this
vear and from all indications this rieet
will be hotly contested.

Davidson’s team is composed of the
following men: Perry. Morrison, Ives
M. McKinnon. D. G. Worth. G. S.
Crouch, Grev, Brand, A. G. Finley and
W. A. Johnson. This team should show
up better than in the former meets of the
season as the squad is working hard
every afternoon. Several other men are
making good on the track and doubtless
there will he a slight change in the team
to oppose Clemson.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF ANNUAL
ELECTED BY RISING SENIORS.

At a meeting of the Junior class on
Monday afternoon the editor-in-chief of
the Annual for the coming vear was
chosen. Andrew Brown being elected to
the office. In the election for members
of the student council which followed.
Keesler, Nisbet, Henderson, Price and
Savad were selected.

C. W. Angle, '18. spent the week-end
at his home, Greensboro, N. C.

Fun and Laughter.

A very highly appreciated feature of
amusement in lighter vein was given in
Shearer Hall Monday night to a capacity
audience by the Davidson College Min-
strel. The minstrel, was composed of
sixteen black-faced comedians, reinforced
by the Orchestra and Glee Club.

The comedians presented a flashy dis:
play of ties and an array of variegated
hose. They were seated in a semicircle
on the stage, and behind them sat the
Glee Club, while the Orchestra occu-
pied an elevated stage at the rear. The
music was good, consisting of everything
from “Yankee-Doodle™ and “Dixie” to
the latest rag of the day. The program
also included many of the latest jokes,
and clog dancing. One thrilling feature
was the negro crap game. W. H. Neal.
of the Orchestra and Glee Club, ren-
dered “Today,” which brought forth
loud applause. At the close of the first
act “Bob” Jones and “Chief” Mullen
gave a ridiculous  two-round — boxing

match. The oration of Law and the
dancing of Copeland created much
laughter.

A nice sum was netted from the door
receipts, which will go towards paving the
expenses of the Shakesnerean plays to be
given by the Senior class at commence
ment.

NEW PROFESSOR SECURED
FOR NEXT YEAR

The college has heen fortunate in
securing the services of Prof. §. Macon
Reed as an additional teacher, now, and
for some years past, headmaster of the
Donaldson Military School, of Favetre
ville, N. C.,.to begin work with David
son at the opening of the new college
year in September. He will teach pre-
paratory and Freshman Greek, Latin
and Math. Professor Reed is no novice
in teaching young men, but has behind
him a successful experience of fifteen
years in this work.

He is the second son of Rev. R.C.
Reed, D.D., professor in Columbia The-
ological Seminary, Columbia. S. C., and
is thirty-seven years of age. He was pre
pared for college at the University
School, Nashville. Tenn., and on) én
trance to Vanderbilt University won bv
competitive examination the $50 cash
prize for the best examination in Greek
and Latin. After three years of work
in the University he taught in Columbia.
S. C.. to which place his father had
moved. The next year, however, found
him hack at Vanderbilt studying in the
School of Civil Engineering. Since that
time he has been teaching continuously
in college and fitting school, with the
exception of two vears spent in West
Virginia as a practical engineer. At one
time he was Assistant Professor of
Mathematics in the University of South
Carolina, in which institution he receiv-
ed his degree of A.B.; Maxima cum
Laude. This summer Professor Reed
will spend in study at Columbia Uni-
versity, New York.

J. D. Sprunt, '18, left last week for
his home, Wilmington, N. C., to have
his tonsils removed.

On Trip.

ELON GAME.

Davidson again defeated Elon College
“Tuesday at Elon, the score being 4 to 2.
The game was fast. only one hour and
twelve minutes being consumed. Both
teams hit the ball consistently, but fast
fielding cut off many would-be hits.
‘Neither Currie nor Bailey had much on
the ball, for only one man was struck
out by each pitcher, The fielding of the
Elon team was ragged at times, errors
heing responsible for three of Davidson's
four runs, Elon earned both of their
two runs, three successive singles en-
abling them to push two runs across the
plate.

Score by innings: R. LE.
Davidson . O49 COO COO—4 4 3
Elon 002 000 000—2 7 3

TRINITY GAME,

Tn a contest of seven innings, short-
ened on account of the createning condi-
tion of the weather, Davidson shut out
Trinity at Durham Wednesday 7 to o in
the third and deciding game of the series.
Lawson pitched good ball for Davidson,
allowing seven hits, but keeping them
well scattered. He was given errorless
support by his team-mates. Mason, for
‘Trinity, was hit hard when hits meant
runs.

The Red and Black scored six runs in
the second inning on four errors, singles
by Black and Brown and an infield
out. The other came in the next frame
as a result of two errors and an infield
out. Alford led the hitting for David-

son, getting a double and a single out of

four trips to the plate. Love and Lange-
lv starred for Trinity, each getting three
singles.

Score by innings: R. HL OE.
Davidson . .. 061 G00 000—-7 4 O
‘Trinity . 090 ON QDO—O 7 4

WAKE FOREST GAME,

The Red and Black continued its win-
ning streak by defeating Wake Forest
Thursday 6 to 3 in the last game of the
season for the Baptists. Fllis’ offerings
failed to puzzle the Davidson hitters,

who found him for twelve hits in eight

innings. Hengeveld, for Davidson, al-
lowed seven hits in the first three in-
nings, but after that settled down to
steady work and refused to allow an-
other safety. Hengeveld’s stick work
was also largely responsible for his
team’s victory. His double in the eighth
started the rally which tied the score
and his single in the ninth, which al-
lowed Brown to count, put Davidson
one run ahead.

Wake Forest scored one in the first
when Roblev singled,.. went to second
when Carlyle was hit by a pitched ball,
and scored on Holding’s hit. thru the in-
field. ‘Two more runs came in the third
as a result of a two-base hit, an infield
hit and two clean singles. The Red and
Black registered two in the fourth on

two singles, a base on balls and a sacri- °

fice hit.

The score was evened up in the eighth.
Hengeveld hit to left for two bases. He
took third on Tohnson’s infield out and
scored when Black hit to Sams. David-

(Continued on page 4)
