The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IV.

Senior Oratoricals
Enjoyable Occasion

Many Interesting Features, Large
Number of Visitors.

The class of 1917 has transcribed its
Senior Oratorical exercises on the pages
of history—and, on the whole, right well
has she done it. Speeches, concerts, re-
ceptions, girls—all of these exist now
only in memory. The regular routine
of college duties has been resumed, to be
terminated soon by the Christmas holi-
days. .

Along with the variety of subjects of
the speeches went the variety of ways
in which they were treated—two facts
which combined to break the monotony
of the forty-seven speeches which were
delivered. The high praise accorded

Woodrow Wilson by a goodly number

of the speakers stdws the political af-
filiation of a majority of the class. The
European war and the political and
economic changes which must inevitably
follow it was discussed from various
viewpoints. The speeches, almost to a
unit, dealt with the live questions of the
day, while those finding their origin in
some belief or incident-of antiquity were
more neglected by the class of 1917 than
by some of the classes that have preceed-
ed it.

The names of the successful competi-
tors who will speak at Commencement
will be announced by the Faculty at a
later date.

The usual large number of visitors
were on the Hill for the occasion, in
cluding alumni and friends and relative
of the students,

In addition to the speaking, other at-
tractions were the Soph-Varsity basket-
ball game Saturday afternoon, the Or-
chestra and Glee Club concert Saturday
night, followed by the Faculty and Fra-
ternity receptions.

CONCERT

The concert given last Saturday
night by the Orchestra and Glee Cluh
was a climax to the series of entertain-
ments during Senior Speaking. Soon
after the concert began the auditorium
was filled almost to overflowing with an
attentive and = appreciative audience.
Fvervyone seemed to enter into the spirit
of the occasion, and the excellent music.
both instrumental and vocal, was met
with a readv response from the eager
listeners. The music of the Orchestra.
with a lively touch mingled now and
then with its soft, beautiful harmony,
was verv pleasing to the car. The Glee
Club, also, was applauded much and en-
cored several times, its most beautiful
selection being “Treland Must Be
Heaven, For My Mother Came From
There.” The Quartet brought down
the house with the song “Go To Sleep.”
and the three encores which followed.
Fowle, as usual. received loud anplause
as he finished his tenor solo, “T Love
You," and the encore. “Mighty Like a
Rose.” =Another feature solo was
“Traumeri,” and an encore rendered on
the violin bv Baker. The entire concert
was one filled with enjoyment and the
spirit of brightness.

FACULTY RECEPTION.

After the Orchestra and Glee Club
concert Saturday night the Faculty gave
a reception to the Seniors and their

(Continued on page 2)

Red and Black Closes Season

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. DECEMBER 6, 1916.

i.
‘\

with Defeat of Clemson Tigers

Davidson Plays High Class Ball and Defeats South Carolinians

with Ease.

The Game in Detail.

Davidson more than made up for the
tie scores of the two previous years with
Clemson by handing the Tigers an over-
whelming defeat in the Thanksgiving
game staged at Charlotte. It was Dav-
idson’s from the time that “Steve”
Walker received the opening kick-off
and ran §5§ vards thru the whole Clem-
son team, until the last whistle blew;
with Davidson in the possession of the
ball well in Clemson's territory. Five
touchdowns and three goals from touch-
down was the sum total score, and this
was probably lessened a good deal by the
frequent and heavy penalities inflicted
upon the Davidson team.

This game was a fitting climax to
the many wonderful games put up bv
the Red :and Black team this season.
The Davidson backs marched thru the
heavy Clemson line and around — the
Clemson ends for long gains. “The Dav-
idson line was almost impreenable, open-
ing up large holes on offensive and hold-
ing steadily and surely on defense.

The stars for Davidson were many.
in fact the whole team plaved at top
form and put up an exhibition that
would be a credit to any college, what
ever size. The detailed account will
give some idea of the game they put up
and how badly they outclassed the Clem-
son team in every particular,

The sad part ot Thursdav’s contest
from a Davidson standpoint is that some
of the mainstays of the wonderful 1916
team probably finished their Davidson
football career with this game. F-x-Cap-
tain “Steve” Walker will be incligible
next year, having received a “D" and
three stars. Cantain Ben. White, “Sam”
Keesler, “Billy” Sayad and Theron
White will be lost by graduation, altho
all have at least one more year of col-
lege football. The loss of these men
will be a great one to Davidson.

All of these men finished up their
careers in great style Thursdav. Captain
White put up a wonderful offensive and
defensive game at center. “Steve” Walk-

er put up without doubt the prettiest ex
hibition of his four years of brilliant
service, “Sam"' Keesler played his usual
steady and heady game at quarter.
“Billv” Sayad shared honors with Cap-
tain White in the line and proved hin
self 2 master of the game in every par-
ticular, and of his opponents. ‘Theron
White’ played one of his best pames in
the line also.

“Jack” Black and “Buck” Burns
were stellar factors in ‘Thursday's game.
Black scored three of the ‘team's touch-
downs, and pulled off a gain) whenever
called upon. “Buck” rammed the line
with his usual success, and his fierce
tackling was a feature. “Bob” Walker
and George King played great games at
end, Both were there when it came to
handling passes and sewing up tackles.
“Bob” held un the punting end in fine
style and outdistanced his opponents an
every exchange of ‘punts. “Bill? Law.
son's passing was one of the outstanding
features of the game and was largely in-
strumental in scoring two touchdowns.

For Clemson, Banks was the aut
standing star. He bore the brunt of the
defensive and offensive work of his team.

THE GAME IN DETAIL:
FIRST QUARTER.

Davidson elected to receive, defend-
ing north goal. C2 Walker received the
hall on his own §-vard line and returned
the ball by brilliant running 35 yards.
Ball on Clemson's go-yard line. Black
made 2. Black gained, but fumbled and
Banks recovered. Major punted 20
vards out of bounds. Burns made 1!
thru center, but Davidson penalized 15
vards for holding. R. Walker nunted
over goal line for touchback. | Wirtsell
punted 25 vards out of bounds. Burns
made 5, then followed with 4 more, and
Black on tackle play made 5 and first
down. C. Walker made 2, Clemson
penalized 5, off-side. Burns made 1.

No. 13

INews and Happenings

of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About
the Town People.

Dr. T. W. Lingle was the speaker of
the occasion at Winthrop Thanksgiving.
. +
Mrs. A. W. McAlister and daughter,
from Greensboro, spent the week-end at
Mrs. Worth’s.

Dr. and Mrs. Lingle go to Raleigh
‘Tuesday to attend the annual meeting
of the North Carolina Literary and His-
torical Association, While in) Raleigh
they will take p:rt in the reception given
to the association and Hon. W. H. Taft
in the handsome new building of the.
Raleigh Wornan's Club.

Miss Ruth Paterson, of Flora Mac-
donald College, Red Springs, N.C,
spent the week-end at her uncle's, ‘Dr.
TOW, Lingle.

Mrs. W. J. Roddy, of Rock Hill, §.
C., spent the week-end with Mrs. Vin-
son.

Prof. |. 1. Douglas spent the week-

end at Chester, $. C., on business.
' *

Dr. Sentelle’s house is nearing com-
pletion, and his sister, with her children,
will join him in the new home after the
holidays.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Miller, of Sher-
rill’s Ford, N. C., parents of J. W. and
R. C. Miller, were among Saturday's
visitors.

“ROB” WALKER, CAPTAIN-ELECT.

“Bob” has been elected captain of the
1917 team. He has played three years

at end and his playing has always been

Forward pass failed. Walker C: ran|steady and heady. He has always given

over left tackle for 12. Black made 2,
(Continued on page 6)

us of his best.
other victorious season in 1917.

May he lead us to an-
