Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, December 6, 1916

5

Does OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

Find you equipped
for the winter per or Jim Reynolds. In the game

claimed that he punted the ball eighty

with against the Auburn Freshman it is Lee (NC) —

THE ALL-STATE TEAM.

of

° ° ne ‘ 8 Lo. .
Senior Speaking h The Technique—Georgia Tech he a Below is given the selection for the
ave a man, Joe Guyon, in her backfield] ajlSeate football team, as picked by]
next year who weighs 196 pounds strip- Carey Dowd, sporting editor

; . the
ped and is faster on his feet than Strup-| Charlotte News: .

SECOND TEAM.
. .. King (D. C.)

U , End.
Shoes? ryards on the fly, | Ramsey (N. C.) .. Cooke (A. & M.)
e Winthrop Weekly kl

te Tackle.
News—Several| cad (D.C.) .. .. Harrell (N. C.)

members on the staff of the paper pub-

e e + . G @ d.
Quick Delivery lished by the students at Winthrop at- Tandy (N.C). ue Currie (N

tended the annual meeting of the S. C.

Our Specialty College Press Association held recently White (D.C.) ..

in Greenville. Fifty-four delegates at-

Cente

r.
.. Grimes (N

5 Guard
tended from the various colleges, and Tayloe (N.C).

.C.)
.C.)

JOHNSON & POTTS |iuring the days of the, conference the atic ee” (PO)
. numerous phases ollege newspap ;
Representatives work were taken up and fully discussed. R. Walker (D.C) McDougall (A&M)

* * *

ond.
r . - -

Gilmer-Moore Shoe C0.) rie red and Black—With the foot-| 4" Brocklin (A&M.) Keesler (D.C.)
weer . Quarterback.

Charlotte, N. C. ball season over attention is now being! 131...4 (D.C.) .. C. Walker (D. C.)

turned at the University of Georgia to

“24-hour delivery

game have been urged to come out and.

Lag ten

v

cane banner cack CRI ee

) has not yet been definitely arranged. but
Gents the trip will probably be taken up into
e ° Tennessee. Letters have also been writ-
Furnishings ten to the Universities of Virginia,
a North Carolina and South Carolina, to
re || Davidson, and also to many Y. M. C.
Just Received A. teams and city athletic associations.
A New Line of . * *
° e The Game Cock—Dr. James 1.
Woolen Shirts, Ties, Vance, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church in Nashville, “Fenn., will deliver
Socks, Arm Bands, a series of addresses at the University of
Pants Su orters South Carolina, December 5-7. The ad-
pp 9 dresses will be delivered under the aus-
Collars Ete pices of the Y. M. C. A., and it is very
’ ° fortunate in securing as able a man as
from Dr. Vance. . . .
The Florida Alligator—A plan is on
B 1 k B foot to establish a Training Detachment} !
e r O S. of the Medical Corps, U. S. A., at the
Charlotte, N. C. University of Florida. Students who
join such a detachment will be in  the|~
Call at 67 Chambers and Red Cross service for two years in time
look this line over of peace, and if war occurs, they will be
free to do as they please. One of the}:
SPRATT - - Agent most attractive features of this work is]:
the annual summer camp which intro
Charlotte Steam Laund duces the detachment to conditions such
ry as would be met with in time of service.
Oldest : Quickest : Best - * ¢

L The Tar Heel—Next year the annual|-
football game between North Carolina

AUNDRY collected every and Virginia will be played at Chapel
Monday and delivered [Hill and the year following at Char-
romptly. We will appre-__ |lottesville. Both universities have been
P poy PP desirous for some time of playing this

ciate YOUR BUSINESS. annual classic on their home fields, and

Sayad & Douglas, Agents now it has been arranged.
; 7 Chambers . ° °

The Agnostic—A party was given re-|:
cently at Agnes Scott to all students and
Save your members of the faculty from Virginia.
The decorations, olden time roaring fire.

Shoe Repair Wor k and refreshments all furthered the im- be
for th pression that they were in the “Old Do-|*,

or the minion.” After the refreshments were] .-;

served every one drew up around the|is

SHU-FIXERY fire and had a glorious time laughing.| 3
of CHARLOTTE. N. C. talking and singing Virginia songs. =
Johnson & Potts, Agts |News axp Haprenincs—__ |"
OF THE WEEK IN TOWN |:

27 Chambers and 2 Rumple a
Mrs. C. M. Richards entertained a A

Let number of the young ladies of the vil-|=

lage at dinner Saturday evening.

Tobe Johnson Dr. and Mrs. w. L Martin, and

daughter, Miss Eloise, motored to Char-] :

Press Your lotte Monday. . .

Clothes Miss Grace Lilly, of Winston-Salem,| E
spent the week-end with Mrs. W. J. E

Oldest man on the job Martin.
Six suits for $1.00 Miss Bonnie Shelton, from Q :

iss onnie elton, trom ueens, | @

L. B. PATTERSON, Representative spent the week-end in town. :

* e e

Fullback,

‘The Stetn-Rloch Co.. 1918

oe! basketball. All those interested in the Polger (N. C.) Halt. Lee (A..& M.)

a good team is expected. The schedule Burns (D. C.) .. ‘ "Tennant (N.C)

The Peace Contest, which was sched-
tiled to have been held Monday night,
Thas been postponed until a later date
fowing to unavoidable circumstances.

THE COLLEGE “FOLLOW-UP.”
“My ‘college certainly takes an inter- .

ést in its graduates,” said Jones to

mith.

“How’s that” asked Smith..

“Why, here I get a note from the

dean saying he will be glad to hear of

the death of any of the alumni.”

Instill in the minds of our young peo-
ple the necessity of building character
that will win the respect of all; this is
vastly more important than a great for-
tune.—Marshall Field.

The question for each man to settle
is not what he would do if he had
means, time, influence and educational
advantages, but what he will do with
the things he khas—Hamilton Wright
Mabie.

Fall Line of

Chase & Sanbow
Coffee and Tea

New Lot Men’s Shoes

Armour Bros.
Thompson

ATTENTION
COLLEGE BOYS

We will refund all Davidson College
students their railroad fare to Winston-
Salem, N. C. and return who make
purchases of $25.00 or more.

Fare one way on $15.00

L,
E
Cc

BOYLES BROS.

One of the Largest Clothiers in the Carolinas

REIDSVILLE, N. C.

WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

