The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IV.

Foot Ball Practice
Begins in Earnest

Many Are in Training for a
Season of Hard Work.

ception and

Davidson faces this year perhaps the; If the registration of new students at
hardest and most comprehensive football] Davidson, already greatly in excess of
schedule in her history. Beginning Sep-|the corresponding period last year,
tember 30th with the University of Vir-|augurs anything for the success of the
ginia, the conquerors of Yale, the games| session from an academic standpoint, this
scheduled are almost without exception| collegiate year will be the most success-
with colleges and universities of larger| ful in the history of the college, except-
enrollment and whose football teams|ing none. The total registration up to
rank as the leaders in Southern athletic| Saturday afternoon, September 16th.
circles. While it is by no means impos-| was 387, as compared with a registration
sible for the Red and Black to make aj of 340 on September 15th last year. In
success with such a schedule, it certainly | other words, there are 47 more students

means that this year must be marked by| in college now than there was at the cor-|

most loyal and determined effort on the} responding time last year.
part of the football squad and also the} The registration by classes is as fol-
interest and undivided backing and sup-|lows: Freshmen, 149; Sophomore, 109;
port of the whole student body. Junior, 70; Senior, 50: Post-graduates,
5. From these figures is gleaned the
fact that the number of upper-classmen
returning this vear is appreciably larger
than in previous vears, while the Fresh-
man class is approximately the same in
numbers as the new class of last session.
This is accounted for in part by the fact
that some new men, a part of whom
were deficient in entrance requirements.
were denied entrance because of a lack of
dormitory space.

For a number of vears the enrollment
has been in excess of 300. but never be
fore has it endangered the 400 mark.

‘When the first call for practice was
sent out by Coach Fetzer an unusually
large and somewhat promising squad re-
ported. Nine of last year’s letter men
were among those who answered the call.
and a goodly number of last year’s most
promising scrubs as well. The Fresh-
man class material is considered — by
Coach Fetzer to be above the average.
It is hoped they will become imbued
with the Davidson spirit from the start
and work hard, for not only will thee
be a great help to a winning team, but
will develop into the backbone of the

football team in seasons to come. .
357, that number being reached afte

The squad, under the efficient tutelage | the Christmas holidays. At present the

of Coach Fetzer, has heen rapidly get-| 400 mark lacks only 13 more matricula-
ting into shape. A scrimmage has been|tions for its realization, a goal which
held every dav for the past week and as} will probably be reached before the holi
a result improvement in all forms of play | davs.

has been ‘noticeable. ‘The hot weather]
has proved a deterrent to much hard
work so far, but it is hoped that this
week will show a change.in weather con-
ditions and that real hard work c
begin.

The team and students are glad and
fortunate in having “Bill” Fetzer again
this vear as coach. His never failing
interest and love for Davidson makes
him peculiarly desirable and acceptable
for the position he holds here.

The loss of Assistant Coach Kluttz body, explained the student council and
will be keenly felt in all branches of ath-| sudent government at Davidson, in
letics, especially in helping to develop] which he entreated the new men to live
new material. He was considered by up to the honor and high ideals that
Coach Fetzer to be one of the very best! characterizes the true Davidsonian.
athletics coaches in the South. The good} s T. Henderson, business manager of
wishes of the entire student body go the Annual, Quips, and Cranks. told
with him in his medical work at the] about all the publications of the David-
University of Pennsylvania. It is re- son student bodyv—THuer DAavIDSONIAN:
gretted that his successor has not been the Magazine, the Annual, and the
chosen, but the old Varsity men. led by! trandbook. He begged all the men to
Captain White and ex-Captain Walker. back the advertisers who make these pub-
are rendering efficient service in the] {ications possible.
training of the new men. J. P. Laird discussed Davidson ath-

As to the probable line-up for the first|letics, and told the prestige that a “D”
game Coach Fetzer states that it is en-| won at Davidson carries with it.
tirely too early to make any predictions,| W.H. Neal told of the importance
and he is not willing at this. time tojof the literary societies in college life,
make any statement or mention any/and outlined the work of the two liter-
names in connection with the different] arv societies at Davidson.
positions. This should be an added in-| TT. J. Mitchell discussed the Y. M.
centive for the new men to good work.|(C, A.. and urged all the men to join in
for at Davidson the football team is not making this year count more for Jesus
picked until the last possible moment.| Christ than any other year in the his-
and every man is given repeated chances! tory of Davidson College.
to show his ability. After the rally in Shearer Hall. a de-

The schedule for this year will be|lightful reception was held in the Li-
found at bottom of column three. brary, where the new men became ac-

THE FRESH RECEPTION
On Monday night. September ith,
the annual reception for the Freshman
an class was held in the library, preceded
” {bv a rally of the student body in Shearer
Hall.

talks for the benefit of the new men, re-

follows:

The high-water mark last session was

At the rally several men, representing
the various activities at Davidson, gave

garding their respective organizations, as

S. R. Keesler, president of the student

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. SEPTEMBER 20, 1916.

College Begins Year’s Work
With Successful Opening

Largest Enrollment of Students in History of College--Fresh Re-

Rally Held.

quainted with the faculty and the ladies
of Davidson. During the evening re-
freshments were served.

NOTICE.

The Pan-Hellenic Council wishes to
call attention to the following rules con-
cerning Freshmen:

1, Freshmen will not be permitted to
enter any fraternity hall during the fall
term, unless a lady is present in the hall.
except at Senior Speaking.

2. No man shall be initiated into any
fraternity before he has successfully com-
pleted three-fifths of his required work
during the preceding term. “The above
is not applicable to postponed examina-
tions. A man mav stand postponed ex-
aminations after Christmas and if said
examinations give a complete pass on
three-fifths of the preceding term's for-
merly incompleted work, he may be
initiated.

SOPHOMORE. CLASS
ELECTS OFFICERS

At a meeting of the Sophomore class
held Monday afternoon, the officers for
the ensuing vear were chosen. The clec-
tion resulted as follows: BR. R. Clark
president: R. C. Carter, vice-president:
F. A. Solomons, secretary and treasurer:
J. W. Tollingsworth, student council
man; W. B. Harwood, manager Soph
banquet: T.. C. McAskill, manager
basketball team.

A LYCEUM COURSE
TO BE PRESENTED

The Piedmont Lyceum Association, of
Charlotte, has arranged to present at
Davidson five Lyceum attractions this
year. The first of these will be — the
Meistersingers Male Quartette, who
will appear some time in October, one
of the best male quartettes on the plat-
form today. The other four numbers to
he given are The Doering Orchestral
Quintette, The Westminster Concert
Entertainers, The Croatian Tamburica
Orchestra, and the Lowry-Lawrence En-
tertainers. J. P. Laird will be the local
manager for these attractions, and the
five will be offered for $1.50.

* *.* * * * J * *

September 30—Davidson vs. Uni-
versity of Va., at Charlottesville.

October 7—Davidson vs. A. & M.,
at Charlotte, N. C.

October 14—Davidson vs. Georgia
Tech., at Atlanta, Ga.

October 21—Davidson vs. Citadel,
at Davidson.
October 28—Davidson vs. Roan-
oke College, at Roanoke, Va.
November 4—Davidson vs. Fur-
man, at Greenville, S. C.

November 11—Davidson vs. Uni-
versity of N. C., at Winston-
Salem, N. C.

November 18—Open.

November 20-—Davidson vs. Clem-

son, at Charlotte.

*
*
*
*
#*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* a * * * * ” ° * *

eae@ ee GO eS seeeantaneevne en ene

No. 2

[News and Happenings

of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About
the Town People.

Mrs. Archibald Currie had two visit-
ors with her for the Fresh Reception.
They were the Misses Fiphian, of Had-
donfield, N. J. Miss Isabel Fiphian is
still with Mrs. Currie.

*s * \

Miss Elizabeth Vardell, Mrs. W. J.
Martin's niece, of Red Springs, has been
the guest of her aunt for the past week.

a * *

The new members of the faculty have
found homes in town. Professor and
Mrs. Reed are occupying the Hudson
house. Professor and Mrs. Withers are
for the present with Miss Bona Potts.
‘Thev are unsettled as yet in regard to the
place that they will settle permanently.

a“ e

‘The work on the new residence in the
grove is progressing rapidly and at the
present rate of speed will be finished in
a short while.

The work being done oan the city .
strects is also being pushed taward com-
pletion. Although the work is not com-
plete to that point, vet the work has béen
carried up to S. C. Scofield’s store.

, :

‘The State Normal College at Greens-
horo claims the greatest number of the
voing ladies of the town this year.
Misses Marv Parks Grev, Charlotte
Cranford, Louise Campbell, and Susie
Brady will continue their studies in this
institution this vear. Converse College,
in Spartanhure, §. C., opens on the roth,
and Misses Mary Richards and Mildred
Tohnson will return, and Miss Kather-
ine Werth will accompany them to en-
ter upon the work as a new. student.
Misses Winifred and Katherine Potts
have entered Queens College, in Char-
lotte.

* ’ .

To the regret of her many Davidson
friends, Miss Neel, stenographer to
President Martin. will leave: within a
few days for Florida to resume her
former position. Miss Neal came to
Davidson last spring with the intention
of staying only a few months. During
this short stay she has won a large num-
ber of friends from both townspeople
and students.

r ° «

Miss Hattie Thompson, of Davidson,
is assisting Mr. Jackson in the office
work at the college this fall. ‘

SOPHS VICTORIOUS IN
GAME WITH FRESH

On Monday morning, September 11th
the Sophs defeated the Freshmen in the
annual Fresh-Soph baseball game by the
one-sided score of 10 to 5.

The game seemed as if it would be a
close call for the Sophs until the seventh
inning, when the Sophs piled up several
scores. R. C. Miller and Boswell, for
the Sophs, pitched good ball, while
Worth, for the Fresh, showed up well
in the same position. The batteries for
the Sophs were: R. C. Miller, Boswell
and Burns: for the Fresh: Worth,
Withers, Garrison and Sullivan.
