The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. It.

Splendid Sermons
Delivered Sunday

Dr. Sentelle and Dr. McClure Ad-
dress Seniors and Y. M. C. A.

BACCALAUREATE SERMON.

A few minutes before 11 0’clock Sun-
day morning forty-two Seniors in* cap
and gown marched from Shearer Hall
to the church, to the seats reserved for
them in front of the pulpit. After Scrip-
ture reading and the invocation by Rev.
A. W. Crawford. of Greensboro, Dr.
Richards introduced Dr. M. FE. Sentelle,
Professor of English Bible, Psychology
and Philosophy at Davidson. the speaker
of the morning, saying that no finer
tribute was ever paid to any man than
was being paid by the Senior class to
one who loved and taught them.

Dr, Sentelle spoke from the text,
“And she shall bring forth a son, and
thou shalt call his name Jesus: for He
shall save His people from their sins.”
In olden times all names had meanings.
just so “Jesus” meant salvation. Men
can help to alleviate the “poison at the
fountain head of life—sin.”” God's
process for saving man was a long one
and of a specific kind. Jesus did not
come into the world to save men from
poverty only, nor from temporal things.
but from those infections and barriers of
the inner life. Jesus saw that the chief
trouble of man was sin. There cannot
be Eden’s glory without Eden's sinless-
ness.

The work of man is altruistic benefi-
cence, analagous to that of the Son of
man. It is not those things which come
into one’s life which makes one good
but that which comes out. The flower
which absorbes all the sun rays which
touches it.is black and unsightly, but the
flower which. reflects and sends out all
its light rays is seen beautiful and pure.

Selfishness is that which makes a man
sordid and mean. The most miserable
man in all the world is he who feels
that what he gives is of no account and
is not appreciated. Man is great be-
cause he has given to the world some
invention which relieves suffering; the
patriot who suffers for his country is
great.

Men are entering upon a task far
more difficult than conquering natural
forces. This task is the accomplishment
of the obeissance of the potent social
forces. In this there is something to
test the mental and moral fibre. Men
who go into this work will find it difi-
cult. JT urge vou not to be content in
work of superficiality for man. but build
character. the lack of which causes suf-
fering. We. as Davidson men, must not
be content to bring fine things into life,
but that which is finest and best.

In the heart of man is the only place
where God does not reign and rule

supreme. He has possession of the forces
of nature. How is man to be brought
to God? God has ordained a God-or-

dained power, which is the vehicle of
personal life and witness. God does not
use superficial means. If there is any
real goodness in life it will transform the
sordid with which it comes in contact
into its own perfect beauty.

He concluded the discourse in that
strong personal appeal. In the world we
will find many who are weak and heavy
laden. We can do little to relieve him.

(Continued on page 4)

&

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C., JUNE 1, 1916.

President and Mrs. Wilson and Dr. Martin as they emerged from the Chambers Build

ing on their way to the Eumenean Society Hall.

The view of Mrs. Martin, at the

side of Mrs. Wilson, is obstructed.

President Woodrow Wilson
Visits His First Alma Mater

Distinguished Former Davidson Student Sees Bis Old Room and
Literary Society Ball.

Davidson, always proud of her alumni
‘and former students, is doubly proud of
one of her former students, Woodrow
Wilson. who is today of world-wide
fame because ‘of the admirable way in
which. he has directed the affairs of the
American nation during the past) two
vears of unprecedented crises. And this
pride for the President was never more
manifest or more in evidence on the pari
of students, faculty and townpeople than
when he paid his alma mater a visit, tho
brief, on the evening of the Twentieth

of May.

Not until the morning of the Twen-
tieth, when the celebration in Charlotte
was in full swing, was it known even to
Dr. Martin, the president of the college.
that Mr. Wilson had definitely decided
to visit Davidson while on his Charlotte
trip. The President’s refusing to allow
Dr. Martin to precede the Presidential
party to the college shows how very in-
formal Mr. and Mrs. Wilson desired
their visit to Davidson should be.

Despite all efforts to keep the Presi-
dent’s visit a secret, the news that he
would leave the crowds in Charlotte in
the afternoon and motor up to Davidson,
in some wav gained currency, and when
he arrived at Davidson quite a few from
the town and community were on hand
to greet. him.

The Presidential party. consisting of
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, Dr. and Mrs.
Martin, and secret service men, were
driven up the street facing the campus
and around the drive-way to the Cham-
bers building. Alighting from their car.
the President indicated to Dr. Martin
his desire to visit his old room, number
13 Chambers, now occupied by A. L.
Young and H. B. Craig, of Mecklen-
burg county. Altho “Tom” Wilson had
been away from Davidson forty-five
years, he showed no hesitancy in desig-
nating the location of his old room.
After viewing the room he remarked to
Mrs. Wilson and the other members of
the party that “it seemed very familiar.”

Pointing out of the window, he showed
the place where, while a student, he cut
the wood used in heating his room.

From his old room Mr. Wilson and
party went to the Eumenean Society
hall, of which he was a member. Of
the general appearance of the hall he re-
marked to Dr. Martin that “it was sub
stantially what it was when he knew if,
except that the seats were different.”
Being asked for a speech as he appeared
on the balcony facing the hall, the Pres-
ident said: “fT was just confessing to
Dr. Martin that this is one place that I
cannot make a speech. | have tried here
before.”

While the party was in the society
hall the students gave college yells for
the President and Mrs. Wilson.

The President's visit to Davidson, the
first ever paid the college by any Presi-
dent, is an event long to be remembered
by those who were privileged to see and
meet him on the campus. Mr. and Mrs.
Wilson, just before leaving, expressed to
Dr. and Mrs. Martin. whose guests
they were, their deep interest and pleas:
ure at being able to visit Davidson, the
President’s first alma mater.

The following is taken from an issue
of THe Davinsonian dated December
9, 1914:

“Davidson men are proud that their
college could with but one year’s training
place in the Presidential chair a man
who has left such a worthy record be-
hind him. The record he left here is no
less worthy than that of later years. The
old college records in the library show
the following grades:

“In the Fall: Excused absences, 2;
Logic and Rhetoric, 95; Greek, 87;
Latin, 90; Math., 74: Composition, 96;
Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100;
Average, 87.67 per cent.

“In the Spring: (On account of
sickness) Excused absences from prayers,
44; Excused absences from church, 3;

{was the successful contestant.

y was made by H. Morrison.

No. 32

Program Reaches
Climax Wednesday

Diplomas Given to Graduates.
Oratorical Contest.

SENIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST.

The annual contest between the Sen-
iors for the Senior Orator’s Medal was
held Wednesday morning between the
three men chosen last fall and the three
highest honor men. W. G. Morrison.
His’ sub-
ject was “The Defects in the’ Present
College Education.” ,

Morrison discussed briefly the pres-
cent ideas as to the trouble with our col-
leges. He pointed out that the unre-
stricted elective system was a menace to
a college. Also he suggested that a
bikiness and current event course be
added to the curriculum. He closed his _
‘speech with a plea for the democratic
spirit among faculty and students in the
college.

The opening speech of the morning
His saluta-
tory address was short and to the point.
He invited the audience to hear the other
speakers and also to enjoy the Faculty-
Senior base ball game scheduled for the
afternoon,

J.D. MeLeod, under the subject of
“A Retrospect.” reviewed the history of
Poetry, Oratory, Sculpture and Science.
He showed in each case where our
knowledge of cach subject was due di-
rectly to the Greeks.

J. M. McBryde outlined the Negro
problem in the South under the subject,
“The Aryan’s Birthright.” He showed
the increasing number of Negro farmers
and comparatively small increase — in
white farmers and then suggested race
segregation as the way to handle the
situation, ;

VLE. Smith spoke on “Rifts in. the
War Clouds.” His was a peace address.
After pointing out that all wars are fol-
lowed by peace, he showed how this great
conflict must necessarily be followed by
a convention for the establishment of
peace. He also suggested the United
States as the possible country to have
this convention.

R. Perry discussed the methods of
training in Germany and their results.
His subject was “The Weltpolitik of
Germany.” He showed how every Ger-
man had such a high respect and ex-
pected much from the fatherland and
how faithful they were to her. He then
said that there were thousands of Ger-
mans in this country that call for our
attention in preparedness.

DEGREES CONFERRED.

After the usual formal ceremonies the
degree of Bachelor of Science was con-
ferred upon twenty-two men, the can-
didates presented by Dr. T. W. Lingle:

M. R. Adams, Statesville, N.C.

R. H. Bennett, Trenton, Tenn.

J. H. Carson, Charlotte, N. C.

L. A. Crawford, Greensboro, N. C.

S. M. Crisp, Crisp, N. C.

L. G. Edgerton, Suffolk, Va.

(Continued on page 4)

Excused absences from recitations, 66;
English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94;
Composition, 95: Declamation, 92; De-
portment. 100; Average, 93.42 per cent;
Average for the year, 91.50 per cent.”
