WHEN YOU

TRADE WITH US
WE BOTH MAKE

Let your next

Shoes be

Gilmer-Moore’

Charlotte, N. C.

Call on our representative at
Davidson and be convinced

WE SELL

Schloss Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits
and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00

Styleplus, Guaranteed Suits and
Overcoats, $17

Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles
Ralston Health and ReynoldsShoes
Lion Shirts and Collars

See two special men’s union suits
at 98e. and $1.50

BELK

BROTHERS
Charlotte, N. C.

McClure

oe
oe

Agent
35 Chambers

Charlotte Steam Laundry

Oldest: Best

Launpry collected every
Monday and delivered
promptly. We will appre-
ciata YOUR BUSINESS.

Sayad & Douglas, Agents
7 Chambers

Quickest ;:

Fellows--
If you are getting up
a Feed--
Stop in and see

S. C. Scofield

Best line of Fruit. Candy.
Peanuts, Etc., in town

Let
Tobe Johnson

Press Your

Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. 0. PATTERSON, Representative

_ ‘The DAVIDSONIAN,

TO THE STUDENTS
OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

No activity governed by the Davidson
Student Body represents intellectual ef-
fort and culture so exclusively as the
Magazine. Three things, however, are
not inconsistent with interest and it is
the policy of the new management to
‘stimulate the subject matter of the Mag-
‘azine by adding interest to its contents.
The greatest problem of the editors is
the securing of fresh material.

willing to contribute to the Magazine.
But our policy aims to be different from
that of the Cosmopolitan; we wish to
have different writers appear in the dif-
ferent issues. Nothing kills interest quite
so quickly as lack of variety. We have
been trying to find a means for securing
enough money to enable us to offer a
small sum for stories and articles pub-
lished. Perhaps we may be able to do

There is
always a certain number of men who are

September 20, 1916

and take it down and pack it to move in
another hour.

The present daily .schedule calls for
eight hours drill and we must = make
three marches a week and one night
march every two weeks. In the last two
weeks we have been out for three nights

in heavy marching order, each man car-|.

rying and cooking all his own rations.
There are a number of Davidson
alumni thru the brigade and many of
them hold commissions, but not in pro-
portion to the men who have had any
military training. In the hospital corps
we have R. W. Porter. ‘57, and three
boys from the town of Davidson: Daug-
las Brown, Lamont Fields and Louis
Johnston, and there are not four finer
soldiers in the whole brigade. Brown.
Porter and Johnston expected to be in
college by this tmie, but the order releas-
ing college men bas been revoked. There
were a number of prospective students
for Davidson scattered through the brig

this yet. Next, we are trying to buildjade and I had some attractive football
up a circulation list which will add to; material in mind for Fetzer, but it has
the number of readers of the Magazinejall been called off. It is good to learn
and therefore to the honor of appearing that the athletic prospects are so promis-
in its table of contents. But we must ing in college. We have a team here of
demonstrate to our subscribers the value old college stars and would be glad to
of the Magazine before they will read it bring them up for a game if our move-
and thus the responsibility of increasing) ment to the border is held off much
the circulation falls back on the staff. longer.

Tt is our wish to as nearly as possible} Wishing each of you a year of great
‘make the staff a group of manuscript things and hoping that the Mevican
readers rather than of manuscript fur-|trouble will quiet down so that Tomas
nishers. In other words, we wish the;be back with you before the vear closes,
Magazine to be truly a publication of /T am, Cordially vours,
the students rather than of the — staff. Jxo. W. MacConrn kui.
The business of the staff should be to
read manuscript, furnished by other] BOARDING HOUSES
students. We wish to make the Maga- ADOPT CERTAIN RULES
zine a place where ambitious literary
students can find an opportunity for ap-} ||
pearing in print. Yet at the same time The managers of all the boarding
the standard of work must be high. houses on the Hill, after conferences
Therefore we make this proposition to with their respective landladies, have
the students: We will be glad to criti-{agreed upon and adopted the following
cize and help revise any story, poem, or tules to became effective October 1.
essay that comes to the editors. We want 1916. Tt was due to the increased cost
short stories, continued stories, plays.(of food stuffs and the lack of system in
poems, essays on any subject, but prefer- the managements that the following
ably on college subjects. However, we rules were adopted :
do not wish to limit the work. ‘TPhe} ot.) A man must remain ata house at
policy of the Magazine is to print any|least one month, unless leaving for an
interesting work which shows intellect-|athletic training table, and in that event
ual effort. will be charged board until he notifies

It is impossible to speak personally to|the manager of the change.
every man in college and we are forced] 2, Before leaving, a student must give
to adopt this impersonal means of com: 'at least one week's notification of the
munication, Tf any man who is inter- change.
ested in literary work of any kind will 3. No man will be received into a
come fo me, I will be glad to CrIUCIZE boarding house until he has made satis-
and help him with his work. “The staff factory arrangements with the manager
is searching for literary material and iSihe is leaving about payment.
anxious to sympathetically help improve
all that it can find.

Leorotp A. CHAMBLISS,
Editor, The Magazine.

In case of absence of any member
of a boarding house no man can take his
place without payment.

5. Returning alumni or guests must
pay board at rates agreed upon by the
Field Hospital No. 1, manager. _
Camp Glenn, N. C., Sept. 16, 1916. 6. Board is due and payable between
T am taking this opportunity thru the|the ist and roth of each month.
columns of THE Davinsonian to ex-| 7. No rebate will be given for absences
tend a welcome to the many new stu-|for less than ten days, When a man is
dents of whose arrival I have heard thru| absent ten days or more he will be cred-
the press notices, and also to welcome|ited with the period of absence in addi-
the older students with whom I have tional board.
been associated the past few years. Since ——_—_—_——_——_——-
Tune roth, T have been in service with SPECIAL ENGLISH CLASS.
the Field Hospital of the First N. C.
Rrigade. Our forces here consist of} Dr. Fulton has announced the names
three regiments of infantry, two troops of the men who have been selected to
of cavalry, a machine gun company. two'take the course in Special English dur-
companies of engineers, an ambulance ing the coming vear. The list is as fol-
company and a field hospital. The field lows: S. M. Criso, W. H. Neal, An-
hasnital has been acting as the camp hos- drew Brown, S. T. Henderson, L. A.
nital and handles all the sick in camp. Chambliss, FE. H. Hamilton and T. J.
The number of patients runs from so to Mitchell.
70 in the wards and the character of the —_—_——__—_—_—_————-
‘ervice is similar to that of a general; Freshman Class—‘‘A comedy of er-
hosnital, being both medical and surgical. rors.”
Our detachment consists of 67 men—! Sophomore Class—‘‘Much ado about
any of them students and some of nothing.”
avery conceivable walk in life, but in the} Junior Class—“‘As vou like it.”
main all are efficient. We can set up a! Senior Class—“All’s well that ends
hospital for 216 patients in one hour well.”

We Invite You to Call at
Our Store When in necd of

Regal SHoes
Gents’
Furnishings
and

Stylish Collars

Also good line of Scout
Shoes for everyday wear.

Make Our Store Headquarters

Armour Bros. &

Thompson
HOTEL STONEWALL

—Charlotte, N. C.—
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your

Shoe Repair Work

for the

SHU-FIXERY

of CHARLOTTE. N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts.

27 Chambers —and 2 Rumple

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White
Drug Company

Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM
& COMPANY

Best Line of
General

Merchandise

in Town

New Line of
Haberdashery and
Shoes

We appreciate your trade

