The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. HII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 29, 1916.

International Problems |News and Happenings ISophs Are Leading

Discussed In Lecture

Dr. Sioussatt the Speaker Here
Monday Night.

Dr. St. G. Sioussatt. professor of His-

tory at Vanderbilt University, after be-
ing fittingly introduced by R. H. Ratch-
ford, gave a lecture Monday night in
+the Eumenean Hall. on International-
ism. Speaking from the viewpoint of
history, he discussed some problems of
international relations which are of most
vital importance to our national life.

Dr. Sioussatt said that to him the
Pan-American Congress of December,
1915, which met at Washington, was a
peculiarly interesting occasion, for there
was a “visible evidence of effort being
made to establish closer relations _be-
tween nations of America. “The South
Americans are coming to us whether we
come to them or not.” He said further
that this congress was a political rather
than a scientific assembly. where many
things were discussed, but the issue of
paramount importance was that of in-
ternational relations.

Of the many things which are to re-
sult from the war, Dr, Sioussatt pre-
dicted that our international relations
would be stronger, provided that we
have a great international spirit. It
was then shown that this better spirit
could not be had unless the effort of
national life was put into it. As to the
rebuilding of Europe he stressed — the
point that we are not so much to care
for boundary lines as we are to care for
the great social reconstruction.

In conclusion he enumerated the cod:
of principles, given by Norman Angell
which should guide America in helping
to form the future governments of the
world.

Dr. Sioussatt lectured under the aus-
pices of the local International Polits
Club, this being the second of a series of
lectures on peace and international re-
lations.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEF. CLUB
TO TAKE ANOTHER TRIP

The Orchestra and Glee Club are
practicing daily in preparation for the
next trip which begins Monday night,
April 1oth. On that night they give a
concert at Queens College. Leaving
Charlotte Tuesday morning. thev will
give a concert at Bennettsville. S. C..
that evening. The next engagement is
in Favetteville, Wednesday. On the
following night they give a concert at
Flora McDonald College. Red Springs.
returning to Davidson on Friday night.

The men who will make the trip have
not as yet been selected, but probably
about eighteen members of the clubs
will be chosen.

SOPH BANOUET TO BE
HELD NEXT MONTH

R. B. McKee. manager of the Soph
Banquet. states that owing to a misun-
derstanding with the managers of the
Central Hotel the banquet will not be
held there. but will be at the Selwyn
Hotel. By getting the jitnevs to put on
some extra machines the fifty dollars

necessary for the special train will be|C.

saved. The banquet will be Mondav,
April tro.

Of the Week In Town

In Class Basket Ball

Social and Personal Items About|Five Games Have Been Played In

the Town People.

Mrs. Martin was sick with la grippe

the latter part of last week.
* “ :

Miss Cornelia Souther, of St. Louis.
accompanied by her little nephew.
Master E. -Pendleton ‘Tompkins, of
Roanoke, Va., is spending a few days
with her sister, Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

* mm *

A hard fought and very interesting
basket ball game between the Hunters-
ville High Schoot girls and the girls of
the local school was witnessed last. !ri-
‘day afternoon by a large crowd. “The
final score was 18 to 16 in favor of the
visitors.

Rev. J. C. Shive, the financial agent
of the college, was recently in Greens-
boro, Faison and other towns of the
state.

. ry

Mrs, W. F. Hall. of Statesville. spent
a few days last week with Dr. and Mrs.
Richards.

Mrs. Cheatam, of Brevard, spent it
short while with Miss Mamie Withers
last week.

The little daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Eustace Sloop, of Spruce Pine, is visiting
her cousins, Letitia and Lucile Currie.

Miss Graves, the physical director at
Queens College, spent the week-end with
Mrs. Paisley.

Mr. Johnson, an agent of the Amer-
ican ‘Tobacco Company in Asiatic ‘Fur
kev. is spending a few days with his
father and mother.

Miss Young, of Queens. spent a day

last week with Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle.
a *

Mrs. T. W. Lingle spent.a few hours
last week at the home of Dr. and Mrs.
Luther McKinnon, at Clinton, N.C.
Dr. McKinnon was president of David
son College during the years 1885-87.

cm cd

Misses Clara Armstrong, Ruth Line-
berger, Lyda Rankin, Messrs. A. C.
Lineberger. Tr.. and Walter M. Hall.
students of Belmont High School, spent
Monday in the college library gathering
material on the subject of preparedness.
which will be debated in the triangle
high school debates over the state Friday
the 31st. H. A. Query, ‘o9, superin-
tendent of schools, accompanied them.

JUDGES SELECTED FOR
ERSKINE DEBATFE.

The following judges have heen
chosen for the Davidson-Erskine debate:
Hon. J. H. Marion, attorney-at-law,
Chester, S. C.; Prof. R. C. Barts, Sup-
erintendent of Schools, Rock Hill, S.
C.; Prof. W. D. Muggins, Winthrop
College, Rock Hill, S. C.; Hon. E. R.
Preston, attorney-at-law, Charlotte, N.

The names of the Davidson-Emory
judges have not yet been learned.

Spring Series.

The spring season of class basket ball
was ushered in by a rough but exciting
game between the Fresh and Sophs. It
was anybody's game from. beginning to
end, but the Sophs rallied in the last few
minutes of play and won by the score of
10 to 7. Both teams guarded closely, but
were very weak in shooting goals. Me-
Alister, for the Fresh, ptaved an excel-
lent defensive game, with Nimmocks
leading on the offense. Kor the Sophs
Yherrel and Sprunt were in the game at
all times.

In a.fast and exciting game the fun-
iors were defeated by the Sophs to the
tune of 25 to 16, Some real basket ball
was uncorked and neither team resorted
to rough tactics. Nisbet and Murray
starred for the Juniors, “The latter se
cured two goals and held his man te one.
For the Sophs, Childs and Worth were
the luminaries,

In the third game of the series the
Juniors defeated the Fresh by the score
of 20 to 2. Both teams showed up well
both on offense and defense, and fought
desperately for every point. For the
Fresh, McAlister, Ports and Hall plaved
well. while Nisbet, White and Murray
starred for the Juniors,

The Fresh upset the dope in the next
game by defeating the strong Soph team
by the score of 20 to 8.) The Sophs were
clearly outplayed in’ every department.
which was partly due to the fact that
they played foot ball instead of basket

ball. Hall) and = McAskill, for the
Fresh, plaved excellent ball, the former
scoring five goals. For the Soplis.

Mountcastle played best.

In a close but hard fought game the
Sophs defeated the Juniors Friday night
by the score of 19 to ti. Nishet, Price
and Laird, for the Juniors, were in the
wane at all times, while Childs, Sprunt
and Worth starred for the Sophs. “Phe
standing of the teams to date follows:

WON. LOST. 1. CT.
Sophs . . rr ! 750
Juniors... 0.0.0. 008 2 333
Fresh 2. 2. 0. 0. eo 2 333

FINALS IN DECLAMATION
CONTEST ARE HELD

The finals of the Fresh-Soph Decla-
mation Contest were held last night in
Shearer Hall, at which time the winners
of the medals offered in’ the respective
societies were selected by a committee
from the faculty.

G. C. Bellingrath was the victor
among the Eumenean men, while the
Philanthropic medal goes to G. L.
Webher.

Three men from each society prev-
iously chosen by means of a preliminary
contest, delivered declamations — last
night. These were J. R. Woods. with
a selection from Dickens, “The Tale of
Two Cities:’ G. C.  Bellingrath.
““Toomb's Farewell to the Senate ;” and
E. A. Solomons, “Defense of J. E.
Cook.” from the Eumenean Society, and
W. B,. Knox, with the race scene from
“Ben Hur;” J. B. Mallard, “Seargent
Prentiss’ First Plea;” and G. L. Web-
ber, “Spartans and the Gladiators,”
from the Philanthropic Society.

No. 24

Base Ball Season Opens
With Easy Victory

Catawba Meets Defeat at Hands of
Lecal Team.

On Monday morning last a hopeful.
eager bunch of young gentlemen com-
prising the base ball nine of Catawba
College, came to town to cross bats with
the Davidson boys. But that evening
they took back with them memories of a
frightful afternoon spent on the dia-
mond, and a final 12 to 3 score chalked
up against them on the scoreboard, with
Davidson hanging to the long end.

It was in the fifth inning. ‘The score
at that time stood 3 to 1 in Davidson's
faver, and things all pointed to a close
scrap. Both pitchers were going: good,
though Davidson had managed to. touch
up Rowe for three safeties, while the
Catawba lads had found Lawson's slants
to their Lking only once. Well, in. this
memorable fifth, Jack Black led off, and
smacked his trusty war club against the
pill for a clean one-sack bingle. — Ben-
nie Brown, following, met the ball with
a savage poke which netted him two
sacks, landing Black on third, Captain
Alford next hit to a waiting Catawba
infielder, who shot the ball home to
head off the flving Black. Seeing that
he was cut off, fack stopped, and begati
to argue with the Catawba — catcher,
finally persuading hiny that he didn’t
want to make a put-out anyhow, so he

generously allowed Jack to score. His
team-mates then proceeded to present
Davidson with seven more runs. With

no one out, and Johnsen up for his sec-
ond try in the inning, Rowe was der-
ricked, and Wilson, who followed him,
succeeded in letting the Davidson lads
down without further damage in’ that
inning. and in fact, was stingy with hits
throughout the rest of the game. The
final score was 12 to 3, Davidson,

For Catawba. Whitner on third af-
forded two thrilling catches.of fouls. -F.
Fesperman had the greatest luck with”
the willow, and made two hits out of
four altempts, one of them a pretty two-
hagger.

For Davidson, Jack Black played a
pretty game on third. He accepted seven
straight chances without error, and it
was only on his eighth chance that he
spoiled his perfect record, a slightly low
throw to first doing the damage. Wood
and Johnson also played good ball, and
Younger made one: fine stab of a long
fly in left-field. With the stick, Johnson
and Wood led the Davidson batsmen.
Johnson made three singles in five times
out, two of them being beat out on in-
field taps. Wood made two clean hits,
one a double, in four tries.

Although there were several errors
chalked up against the plavers, they were
not glaring ones. Lawson pitched excel-
lent ball during the five innings in which
he worked, and had his opponents in
hand at all tinws. He allowed only one
hit during this time, although Catawba
made it count for their first run. Henge-
veld and Currie, who followed Lawson,
also pitched excellent ball, and were
seldom in hot water.

The game afforded to local fans their
first chance to see the 1916 Varsity in
action, and a good crowd turned out to
witness the game. The weather was not

(Continued on page 4)
