The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IV.

Annual Fall Campaign
Meets With Success

Services Conducted by Mr. Heun-
shell and Mr. Martin.

With one of the strongest appeals for
Foreign Missions ever hdard on the
Davidson campus, the Fall Campaign
was brought to a close last Sunday even-
ing by Mr. C. G. Hounshell. All thru-
out the meetings the attendance was fine,
the interest in the work increasing with
each service. These meetings were not
exactly on the order of an evangelistic
campaign, where one would expect a

more open portrayal of spiritual excite-|,

ment. Mr. Hounshell’s manner of de-
livery was always of a quiet, non-emo-
tional, yet impressive type, causing no
undue spiritual excitement, but enabling}
the truths to sink deep into every heart
with more lasting effect.

The campaign opened Friday morning
at 10:30 a. m., during the morning
chapel period. An hour of worship was
spent at that time. The afternoon hours
were taken up in student conferences,
held by Mr. Hounshell, Dr. Richards
and Mr. Morton. Then the evening
service followed at 7:15 o'clock. This
was the daily routine of the campaign.
Mr. Hounshell and his co-workers being
also in charge of the Sunday services.
During the service on Saturday morn-
ing, cards bearing the following inscrip-
tion were passed thru the crowd:

“It is my purpose, with the help of
God, to pay what it costs to be a sincere
follower of Jesus Christ.”

Over one hundred and fifty of these
were returned signed by the students
and this number out of a student body of
only four hundred. ‘Vhe effect of hav-
ing so many men on the campus leading
a Christian life cannot be overestimated.
At the evening service cards were alse
passed asking such questions as would
enable the Y. M. C. A. to learn more
of each man and thus promote more
active Christian work here. The re-
sponse to these was very good indeed.

Still another interesting and impres-
sive feature of the meetings, introduced
by Mr. Hounshell himself, were the aft-

Davidson

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., OCTOBER 4, 1916.

Shows Up Well

In Opening Game of Season

Red and Black Machine Makes Game Fight Against Virginia,
Losing By Close Score.

Davidson's first football game of the
season was played Saturday, when the
little Red and Black machine was de-
feated by the University of Virginia by
the relatively small score of 14 to o.
The score tells but a small part of the
story. After the first ten minutes of
play the Orange and Blue was unable to
make any appreciable headway hefore
the fight of the Davidson team. Several
times the ball was brought within strik-
ing distance of Virginia’s goal, but here
the difference in weight told and David-
son’s backs were unable to pierce the
Orange and Blue line.

Playing largely defensive. football in
the first half, the Red and Black warriors

WHITE, CAPTAI

N

“Steve” Walker played thru the game
with a bad ankle, while Grey and Pharr
had to stop on account of injuries.

For the Orange and Blue, Carring-

:
ton, Gooch and Ward stood out prom-
inently. Carrington’s punting was of
high order and he also contributed one
of the touchdowns.

It would be impossible to pick out any
une man as the Davidson star, as each
man fought for all that was in him.
“Tack” Black, who was saved until the
second half because he had not fully: re-
covered from an injury received early
in the season, broke through the line
time after time for repeated gains and at
one time carried the ball to Virginia’s
12-yard line. “Sam” Keesler also play
ed a strong, heady game, and was a
leading offensive factor. Flowers, play
ing his first collegiate game, made a very
favorable showing, and altho his first
punts were a little short, he soon settled
down to steady work. Captain White
was a tower of strength in the line, again

rd

BLACK, HALF- BACK

No. 4

[News and Happenings

Social and Personal items Abeut
the Town People.

Mrs. ‘F. W. Lingle left Monday tor
a visit to Raleigh.
ry *
Professor and Mrs. Withers hae
moved in the house next to the Hen-
derson Hotel...
. 4
Dr. Grey was recently confined to his
home on account of a slight illness, but

is now meeting his classes regularly,
i]

° *

The Civic League of Davidson will
hegin its activities tomorrow afternoon.
The subject of their meeting will be
“Home Efficiency,” and it is looked for-
ward to with much interest by the men-
bers. Mrs. J. M. McConnell is the
president of this live organization, and
Davidson can look forward to a series of
interesting activities, the nature of which
will be made public as soon as this or-

ganization gets back to business.
* * cd

Mrs. W. F. Hall, of Statesville, the
mother of W. F. Hall, Jr. '20, spent

the week-end with Mrs. Richards.

* * a

The Booklover's Club) met Friday
night, September 29th, with Mrs. Rich-
ards. A very interesting program fea-
tured the evening, the topic being ‘“Tol-
stoi.” Mrs. J. M. Douglas read “The
Message of Tolstoi,” the chief paper of
the evening, and Miss Shaw read a high-
ly interesting paper entitled “A Sketch
af the Life of ‘Volstoi.”” A social mect-
ing followed the regular program.

r th ¥

Of the Week in Town

Miss Lott, of Winston-Salem, the sis-
ter of TH. S. Late, '19, visited here a
few days age.

¥ .

A dinner party was piven last friday
night by Dr. and Mrs. Richards in
honor of the new members of the faculty
and their wives.

h

Rev. Mr. Erwin, pastor of the local

Methodist church, is conducting a meet-

er meetings held at the close of each|changed their style of play at the begin-
evening service. It was the privilege of|ning of the second half, and started a
every one to remain for these, where a|march up the field, keeping the ball in
more open service was held. The stu-| Virginia's territory at all times.
dents were here given an opportunity to| Virginia's first touchdown was largely
express their personal spiritual needs and] the result of an exchange of punts, which
workings. Then a few moments of sen-| brought the ball close to Davidson's
tence prayers followed. It is just such] goal line, where it was carried over by
meetings as these that draw the students} Carrington. It was only in this depart-
closer together in their personal rela-! ment of the game that Virginia was at
tions to furnish a still greater spiritual |all superior. Gooch’s run of thirty yards,
blessing. Another meeting similar to} which followed closely after the first
these was held Sunday afternoon just| touchdown, was the only long gain made
before the Student Volunteer movement.| by the Virginians. Both touchdowns
which was conducted by Mr. Hounshell) were made in the first few minutes of
himself, their General Traveling Secre-| play, and this may be attributed to the
tary. fact that Davidson could not settle down
The afternoon student conferences}at the start to the steady work which
were unusually well attended this year.) characterized their playing in the rest of
It is at these meetings that the more per-|the game.
sonal troubles and needs of the students The Davidson squad put up a fight
can be gone over and corrected. which the Student Body may well be

and again checking the Virginian’s ad-{ing near Salisbury.
vance. “Steve” Walker was a star on *
offense and defense, making repeated] Miss Baskerville has started a private
gains and breaking up many plays at{school this week at the residence of Mr.
end. “Bob” Walker, playing the othe: |C. L. Grey.

end, was much superior to anything that
Virginia could show, and his tackles .

were hard and sure, CALENDAR OF EVENTS.

The line-up was as follows:

~ a .

Virginia. Position. Davidson.| + Wednesday, Oct. 4th—
Hagan........ left end... B. Walker ‘Thursday, Oct. sth—7:15 p. m..
Ward........ left tackle 2... Finley Y. M. C.-A.. Shearer Hall.
Coleman. .... left guard... .... Grey? Friday, Oct, 6th—7:00 p.m.
Churchman... .centre ..... B. White “Pep” meeting, Shearer Hall.
McKay...... right guard .. not Sayad 9:00 p. m., Tnternational Polity
Blakey... ... .right tackle... T’. White Club.

Goodwin..... right end... .. Flowers! = Saturday, Oct. yth—3:00 p. m.,

J. White... .quarterback .. . . Keesler
Carrington... .left half... C. Walker! -

Davidson vs. A. & M.. Charlotte.
Sunday, Oct. 8th—9:45 a. m., Bi

Gooch....... right half... McAlister)* ble Classes; 4:30 p. m., Christian
Spar......... full back... 0... Laird Endeavor; 6:10 p. m.: Minister- *
Referee: McWhorter, Georgia; Um ial Band; 6:40 p. m., Volunteer

pire: Smith. Washington and Lee; Head]- Band. .

Another special feature of the cam-
paign was the singing conducted “by Mr.
H. F. Morton, graduate of the class of
1908, who fwr several years has been a
leader in the mountain mission work in
Albemarle Presbytery.

(Continued on page 6)

proud of and which will long be remem-
bered by the university's team. Coach
Evans was forced to use his first string
men thruout the game. In fact, the
Davidson team made more substitutions.
Injuries to prominent players handi-
capped the Davidson team immensely.

linesman: Leach, Tennessee; ‘Vime of
quarters: 12 and 10 minutes; Touch-
downs: Carrington and Gooch; Goals
from touchdowns: Carrington 2; Sub-
stitutions-—Virginia: Darwin for Hagar
(Continued on page 6)

Monday, Oct. 9th—8:45 a. m., Lit-
crary Societies; 7:00 p. m., Eu-
menean Freshman Society.

Tuesday, Oct. roth—

Wednesday, Oct. 11th—
*

ON TO CHARLOTTE SATURDAY
