The DAVIDSONIAN, May 10, 1916

For Sale -

SEABOARD MILEAGE BOOK

1000 Miles Intra-State Mileage, $15.00
DAVIDSON COLLEGE MAGAZINE J. G. Patton, Business Manager

ATTENTION! ALUMNI!

The committee on commencement
plans for the alumni call attention to the
fact that now is the time to write you
college day friends for an engagement or
the hill May 28th to 31st. You are re-
minded also that each one should notify
the entertainment committee as soon a>
possible that you are coming so that ar-
rangements may be made for your room.
It is expected that the students will move
out of one dormitory which will be used
as headquarters and bureau of informa-
tion for the alumni. Some one will be
on hand all the time at the “ask me”
booth and everything possible will be
done to make the old fellows feel at
home. The present Student Body. a
live bunch of fellows, promise, crossing
their fingers on it, that the alumni shall
not be “freshed.”

College ‘‘feeds” as in your day is still
a fad. The program this year include
a banquet for Tuesday evening at 6:30
p. m. (regular supper hour). The
Alumni Association meeting which ha:
customarily been held on ‘Tuesday aft-
ernoon at 3 o'clock will be held at this
banquet. Every alumnus on the hill
should let this hour have right of way
The secret has leaked out that a promin
ent caterer from Charlotte has been em
ployed to serve the banquet, and the in
formation is passed on so that dispepsiz
tablets may not be forgotten when the
grip is being packed. ‘The menw in-
dicates that fifty cents, which will be the
price of your ticket, will certainly buy
four bits’ worth. Remittance may be
made in the most convenient way either
by check or cuin and should be sent in
as soon as your plans for coming are
definite. Prof. Jno. LL. Douglas is chair-
man of the entertainment committee, and
will be glad to have you write him that
you will be here and have a part in mak
ing this a record commencement.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEF
CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS

The Orchestra and Glee Club have
elected the following officers for next
vear: F. H. Baker, director, and A. T.
Cashion, manager.

The prospects for a good organization
are very promising and the management
desires that every man be on the lookout
this summer for men of musical ability.
There is a splendid field for music here
and no reason why there should not be
a band as well as orchestsa. If the stu-
dents would show a little interest one
could be established in connection with
the proposed military training next year.

KEESLER ELECTED PRESIDENT

At a meeting of the student body last
Friday. S$. R. Keesler, '17, after a close
race with J. P, Laird, was elected presi-
dent of the student body for next year.
to take the place of A. B. Reese. Jr.
who resigned. According to the point
honor system which allows a man only
nine points at one time, Reese could not
hold the position of manager of the foot
ball team and president of the student
body.

‘Dr. W. J. Martin left Monday for
North Wilkesboro, where he will deliver
an address at commencement of the

North Wilkesboro High School.

A YEAR OF SPLENDID The LIFE of William Shakespeare

WORK BY Y,
A MASTERFUL PICTURE Wherein the Great Bard
“STRUTS and FRETS HIS HOUR UPON (¢he---FILM’

The story of his life. mellowed with romance and reflecting the spirit of
the greatest genius that ever builded with words.

This Picture Will Be Shown at Davidson

The time and place to be announced later.

M.C. A.

During the vear which is just closing
the Y. M. C. A. has had one of the best
vears of its work on the campus.
Under the leadership of W. G. Somer-
ville the association has accomplished
much in the influence which it has ex-
erted on the campus and the | service
which had been rendered both on the
campus and in the territory surrounding

the college.

Among the student body very effective

personal work has been prosecuted and
classes for study of the Bible and mis-

sion problems were well attended thru-
out the year. In work outside the bounds
of the campus night schools have’ been

conducted and Sunday schools establish-
ed and supplied with teachers. In ad-
dition a boy's club in the towrt has also
been conducted.

In the Fall Evangelistic Campaign.
which was led by Dr. Chapman and Mr.
Alexander, very effective work was done
among the students and the influence of
the meetings has been felt thruout the
year in the work of the Association.

The program of weekly meetings for
the year was made with a view to having
various subjects. presented which were
of benefit and profit, and these were pre-
sented by both students, faculty members
and prominent speakers from other
places. Early in the fall a Social Cen-
ter was opened where the boys could
feel free to “loaf” and read, and games
were also installed. In January, the
president. W. G. Somerville, found it
necessary to leave college, and the vice-
president, J. G. Patton, took up the
work and carried it forward for the
rest of the term,

THE ANNUAL.

Altho the work of preparing the
Annual for publication has unavoidably
been delayed, it is now being pushed for
ward rapidly, and in a very satisfactory
manner, as the proof which has been re
turned indicates. The 1916 volume of
“Quips and Cranks” represents a great
deal of thought and labor on the part of
the editor-in-chief and his associates, who
are confident of accomplishing their am-
bition, as expressed last fall, of publish-
ing the best Annual Davidson has ever
had. In addition to being larger than
ever before, it contains an entirely new
department, which will add greatly to its
value as a depicter of college life.

All of the regular departments have
been worked over carefully, the aim thru.
out being to show the college life not in
its somber colors, but in its lighter and
more attractive phases. Both the liter
ary and artistic staff have striven con
stantly for this end, and as the result of
their efforts every sign points to a vol-
ume which will be a source hoth of
pleasure and pride.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle attended an inter-
esting meeting of the State Chemical So-
ciety last week at A. & M. College, in
Raleigh. One of the interesting features
of the meeting was the pronosal of a
remedy for the distressing effect of cot:
ton seed meal on stock as a fond. A
good dye process. which mav do much
towards solving the dye trouble, discov-
ered by an American chemist, was also
discussed.

Benefit the Shakespearean Celebration of Senior Class at Commencement

SUBSCRIBE NOW

——DO YOU WANT

SIX-Page DAVIDSONIAN

NEXT YEAR FOR THE SAME PRICE?

If so, send in your
subscription at once

Put it off and you will neglect to do it

Subscribe NOW

And both of us will be benefited. Senda dollar at once to

J. C. PAISLEY, Circulation Mgr.

ARE YOU HOT?

COME TO

JETTON DRUG CO.

And Enjoy the BEST Line of Cold Drinks

Going. Ice Cream Cones a Specialty

THE BEST OF Service GUARANTEED
Forget Your Troubles

AT THE

PALACE THEATRE

And be one of the millions who enjoy Universal

Programs. Pastime ladled out from 7:15 to 12:00
for 10 Cents Per Fach

COMMENCEMENT COPYING

New Machine. Prompt Delivery and Extra Quality
R.H.STONE : : 2258. W. Ghambers

