The DAVIDSONIAN

a

Vol. IV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. OCTOBER 18, 1916.

Red and Black Defeated |Doubles In Tennis

by Strong Tech Eleven

Completed Last Week

Fighting Gamely, Opponents are|Championship Goes to Saunders

Held te Low Score.

Facing a team which is admittedly
one of the strongest in the South, and a
team which outweighed them manv
pounds to the man, the plucky and effi-
cient Red and Black warriors put up a
great fight at Atlanta Saturday against
Georgia Tech. and the latter team had
to be content with a 9 to o victory. And
this score tells but a small part of the
story, for twice the Davidson team had
the 2,000 Tech. supporters trembling in
fear of a score by the Red and Black.
Ta the first instance the ball was really
carried over the goal by the Red and
Black backs, but they were called back
by the claim that one of the Davidson
backs had started moving before the ball
was snapped, and Davidson was penal-
ized five yards. The second time that a
score was imminent came in the second
quarter, when Grey, standing on the
25-yard line, tried a drop kick which
missed the bar by an almost impercept-
ible margin.

Not dismayed a whit by the record
score which Georgia ‘ech had piled up
against Cumberland University the pre-
ceding week, or by the fact that they
were missing one or two regulars from
the line-up. the Davidson team went
into the game with a fighting spirit that
never died. ‘Time and again they check-
ed the wonderful Tech offense and they
clearly outplayed the Yellow Jackets in
every department of the game in the first
half. All thru this period Coach Heis-
man’s warriors were kept in fear and
trembling for the safety of their own
goal, and it was only thru the interfer-
ence of first mentioned Dame Fortune
that Davidson was deterred from scor-
ing twice.
only in the last half, when the difference
in weight was beginning to tell and
Strupper was playing such phenomenal
football, that Tech was able to push
across their lone touchdown, Tech was
continually being strengthened by fresh
men, while Davidson only made two
substitutions during the entire game.

The Red and Black team played to
the most advantage on defense, tackling
low and sure, and fighting every inch of
the way. The outstanding stars on the
defensive for Davidson were Captain
White and “Billy” Sayad. who formed
a great combination, breaking up many
of the advances by the dashing Tech
hack-field. ‘‘Sam” Keesler was again
the most consistent ground gainer for
the Red and Black, and his 35-vard run
in the first quarter was one of the feat-
ures of the game. Hugh Grey, who did
the punting for Davidson, made a great
part of the offensive gains. His punts
were well placed and averaged over 40
yards, ehsily outclassirge those of his
opponent.

The offensive playing of the Georgia
Tech team was spectacular at times.
with Strupper, Spence and Senter the
chief ground gainers. Strupper was in
a class by himself, and it is pretty cer-
tain that the ‘Tech team would not have
scored if it had not been for his brilliant
dashes. The heavy Tech line was al-

(Continued on page 6)

On the other hand, it was.

and Hawkins.

The annual Tennis Tournament was
held last week, the finals being played
Saturday afternoon before a large num-
ber of spectators. A. P. Saunders and
T. W. Hawkins, both of the Junior
class, were victors in the final contest,
winning over W. F. Hall and' T. H.
Spence, both of '20, 7-5, 6-1, 2-6, 6-3.

There were a large number of en-
trants in this annual event, and interest
and enthusiasm was manifested thruout
the tournament. The fine quality of
play displayed by the contestants was
much enoyed by the onlookers, and pros-
pects look bright for a successful year
in inter-collegiate matches. ‘These, how-
ever, have not vet been definitely secured,
tho M. S. Kennedy, manager of the ten-
nis team, hopes to secure several.

Those entering the doubles in the
tournament were Worth and Cunning-
ham vs. Price and FE. A. Woods; Askew
and Craig vs. Keesler and Lily; With-
ers and McAskill vs. Saunders and
Hawkins; Crawford and Roddey vs.
Kennedy and Reed; Mitchell and Lott
vs. Thomas and Flynn; Hall and Spence
vs. Woods and Woods: Douglas and
Faires vs. Jones and Inman. ‘Those in
the semi-finals were Price and Woods.
who were defeated by Saunders and
Hawkins, and Hall and Spence were the
victors over Jones and Inman. 3-6, 6-2.
6-1.

The singles tournament is being held
this week. ‘Those entering for this event
are as follows: Keesler, Shields, Worth,
Tones, Mitchell. J. B. Woods. Kennedy.
Withers, Crawford, FE. Lilly, Price.
Hawkins, Douglas, R. Howard. Reed.
H. Lilly, Craig, JT. R. Woods, Thomas,
Cunningham, Hall, Saunders, Menzies.
E. A. Woods, Lott, and Spence.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
MEETING SUNDAY

At the Christian Endeavor meeting
on Sunday afternoon, the topic ‘Public
Spirit” was discussed by. E. B. Wright,
the leader for this meeting. After this
the discussion was general by the mem-
bers of the society. Public spirit, the
various speakers sought to show, should
be made a constructive and not a de-
structive force. and each citizen should
use his best efforts to make it such.

of various songs.

victory.

@#*¢ 8 @ &@ @e eb © BO He 8B EF HF Fe HB eC

°
*
*

s *

It has been the source of much regret to Davidson men that there
is no song that can strictly be called the Davidson College Song. ‘he
need of such a sung was shown in Charlotte two weeks ago, when the
line of two hundred and fifty marched into the Square, singing snatches
Everybody wanted to sing, but there was no common
song. Of course there are a few “Dear Alma Mater” songs that the
Glee Club agonize creditably over, but what Davidson needs is a song
something like the Yale “Bula” or the ‘Washington & Lee Swing.. a
song that is full of spirit and pep, a song that stirs the blood, a song. of

So the Commissary offers a Gold Medal Tennis Racket to the com-
poser of the best “Davidson Song.” set to some comman swinging air, or
accompanied by notes. The decision wil] he left to the Blue Pencil
Club. The contest wil) be held open till the 15th of November.
student or alumnus is eligible to compete. The compositions may be sent
to the Editor of THe Davinsonian.

No. 6

Wilson-Bickett Club Class Basketball Opens
Holds First Meeting With Two Games

Bon. Theodere F. Kiuttz Speaker |Fresh Defeat Juniors, Sentors Win
of the Evening. Frem Sophs.

lt was with great interest and enjoy- FRESH-J UNIOR
ment that the students on Friday night] At 4:30 Friday afternoon the first
heard a real plea from an old campaign-|game of the class basketball series was
er in behalf of Democracy. §. T. Hen-|called. ‘This game was between the
derson, president of the recently organ-{| Fresh and Juniors, and was snappy and
ized Wilson-Bickett Democratic club,{ hotly contested thruout, the Fresh final-
introduced the speaker of the evening.|ly emerging from the fray as victors by
Hon. ‘Theodore F. Kluttz, of Salisbury.|the close score of 19 to 16.

After a few introductory remarks.| The first year men showed up excep-
Mr. Kluttz began his speech by saying,|tionally well and for their first game
“Some of you are too young to vote, but{exhibited remarkable team work. The
all are old enough to take an interest in| last year champions seemed to have an
the great national issues of the day.” In] off-day. but at times they showed last
speaking of the Democratic party, he}season form and then delighted the spec~
remarked: “It is the party that stands|tators with a bit of real baskethall.
for the rights of the many against the| “he stars of the game are indeed hard
oppression of ‘the few.” “T would have{to name. For the Freshmen, Hall and
vou line yourselves up with it because] Monroe showed up best, while Childs
it is the historical party, the party of[and ‘Vherrell played the best game for
Thomas Jefferson and Woodrow Wil-|the Juniors.

The following is the lineup:

son. It appeals to young men to give it

their allegiance.” Fresh. Position, Juniors.
Linked up with the strong appeal for] Werth .. Mountcastle

the Democratic party, the speaker did ao, center

not fail to pay a high tribute to Wood- McKlerkin .. Therrell

row -Wilson, its great leader. Among guard

bis many references to the President he Chalmers .. tees Boggs

said: “God sent Woodrow Wilson to guard

Davidson, this genuine sear of genuine Hall sores . Sprunt

learning, to give him the ground work forward .

in his education.” “T brings you — the Monroe .. Spon Childs

glad tidings that Woodraw Wilson is Cees forward .

going to he re-elected for a second term, Substituions—For — Juniors: — Sprunt

for Boggs, Hawkins for Sprant.

‘Time: 35 minutes. Referce: Reese.

SOPTE-SENTOR

In the second game of the class basket-
ball series played Monday afternoon the
Seniors defeated the Sophs by the close
score of 27 to 24. The game was a
hard fought one thruout and tt was hard

and that Davidson will not fail to have
its representative in’ the Presidential
chair.”

A good sized number heard the ad-
dress, and much enthusiasny was shown
by the numerous bursts of applause.

SOCIAL CENTER REOPENED.

last two minutes of play.
. The individual stars for the Seniors
Phe Y. M. C. A. Social Center.| were Henderson, Captain, Murray and
which occupies the upper floor of the old] Young, while Alexander and Andrews
gymnasium building, was opened to the} plaved unusually well for the Sophs.
students yesterday -morning. In this! ‘The line-up was as follows

room are a number of recent copies of | Sonjors. . Position. Sophy.
up-to-date magazines for the benefit of Young .. oe. _. McAskill
those students who like to read. “Phere right guard
is also a phonograph and records, and] Price , , sve ea ae. Davenport
several games are to be secured in a few left. guard
days. “The doors are open to all stu-| Henderson .. _ Potts

center
teoee ee ee ee Andrews
right guard
.. Alexander

dents between the hours of 8 a. m. and

It p.m, on all days except Saturday.| Murray ..

and on that doy it is open till 11:30 ,

p.m. Keesler Lees
left guard

|

PEACE CONTEST TO BF
HELD IN DECEMBER

At a recent meeting, the Debating
Council set December gth, the Monday
following Senior speaking, as a tentative
date for holding the lacal Peace Con-
test, at which time Davidson's represen-
tative in the State contest will be selected.

At this same meeting, the Council ap-
proved a contract signed for a debate
between Emory University and David-
son, to be held at Agnes-Scotr College.
Decatur, Ga. This is tre third debate
of this series, Davidson having won the

« |first and Emory the second. A debate

+ | with another institution is being consid-

» Jered, tho no contract has as yet been
signed.

Any

to tell which team would win until the -
