The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IV.

. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 7, 1917.

No. 2)

Base Ball Schedule
For 1917 Announced

Calls for Twenty Games
Leading Institotions

Below is given the comprehensive
baseball schedule for 1917 as announced
by Manager S. C. Harris. This sched-
ule, as will be seen, calls for twenty
games, and includes contests with lead-
ing colleges of North Carolina and Vir-
ginia:

March 27—Catawba at Davidson.

March 28—Oak Ridge at Davidson.

March 29—Oak Ridge at Davidson.

March 31—Charlotte Leaguers at
Davidson (pending).

April 2—Elon at Elon.

April 3—Trinity at Durham.

April 4—Carolina at Chapel Hill.

April 7—Charlotte Leaguers at Char-
lotte (pending).

Aprit 9—Elon at Greensboro.

April 11—Wake Forest at Davidson.

April 12—Trinity at Statesville.

April 13—Trinity at Davidson.

April 14—A. & M. at Gastonia.

April 16—Lenoir at Hickory.

April 23—Guilford at Greensboro.

April 24—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

April 25—Washington & Lee at Lex-
ington, Va.

April 26—Roanoke at Salem, Va.

Mav 1—Flon at Davidson.

May 4—Guilford at Davidson.

INTERESTING RELIC
FOUND BY WORKMEN

While digging for the foundation of
the water tank back of Chambers build-
ing, the workmen found a circular piece
of bronze with the following inscription

“Founded A. D. 1837. Mystic Seven
Fraternity. Wesleyan Universit,, Mid-
dleton, Conn. Davidson College. N.C.
Organized 1884.”

In the center is a seven pointed star,
surrounded by seven small stars.

The bronze was doubtless used for an

engraving plate. Baird’s Manual states
that this fraternity was one of ten chap-
ters, Davidson’s emblem being the
Sword and Shield. It adds: “The gov-
ernment in the fraternity was extremely
loose. The fraternal spirit, however.
was unusually strong, and the personnel
of the fraternity of an unusually high
character. The. practices were quaint
and interesting; much was made of the
number seven and of the primary col-
ors.”
In 1890 the chapters here and at the
University of North Carolina were
merged into the Beta Theta Pi Fratern-
ity.

METHODIST PREACHER
GOES TO CHARLOTTE

Owing to a number of changes made
necessary by death, Rev. L. B. Aber-
nethy, pastor of the local Methodist
Church, has been transferred to the pas-
torate of the Dilworth Church, Char-
lotte, and he will be succeeded here by
Rev. W. A. Tenkins.

The consecration meeting of the
Christian Endeavor was postponed from
last Sundav to next Sundav. The meet-
ine will be led hv D. W. Roberts. the
subject being ‘Personal Evangelism.”
Everybody is invited and urged to come.

Junior Oratorical Exercises

Proved an Enjoyable Occasion

With Despite Bad Weather, There Were Many Interesting Features and a

Large Number of Visitors.

* @ @ @© @ @ &
JUNIOR ORATORS.

* »

.

ra
*
*
* Tho announced before Junior
* Speaking that only four Junior
* Commencement Orators would be °
* chosen this year, the Faculty has
* since decided that six shall speak as
* in the past. The men selected are
* as follows:

* Phi. bai. -

* W.C. Cumming G. C. Bellingrath
* J. L. Fowle L. A. Chambliss

* J. A. Thames  W.G. Humphrey:
* * ‘ « . . .

The Junior Class Oratorical exer-
cises, beginning with the first speeches
Thursday night, and closing with the
receptions on Saturday, proved a very
pleasant and successful occasion, in spite
of the fact that Jupiter Pluvius tried to
throw a damper on the festivities. It
rained almost continually during the en-
tire time, and while this interferred to
some extent, it did not keep down the
gaiety.

The orations were uniformly good,
and many of them were of a high order.
All were. delivered well, and showed
great preparation, “Vhere was a wide
range of, subjects discussed, and many
interesting facts and points were brought
out, together with many bursts of clo
quence, or near-eloquence_at least. The
oratorical exercises wereell attended,
probably more so than in several years,
and seemed to be enjoved by all who
heard them.

It would be an endless task. to credit-
ably discuss the various speeches of the
sixty-odd participants. “There is scarcely
a country or race of people that was left
untouched, and scarcely.a phase of the
great war, both past and future aspects.
that was not discussed. Then, too, prob-
lems scientific, social, economic, politi-
cal and religious, were discussed at great
length. Many of the great men and the
“would-be-great” men of the world were
praised to the highest point, but, of
course, not criticised, for in some cases
that might have spoiled all the effect.
Poor old Latin and Greek even did not
escape criticism. One speaker praised
them up to the skies and said that it was
impossible to get the most out of life
without them. It is strange to say that
soon after the aforesaid speaker had
taken his seat, another got up and liter-
ally tore Latin, Greek and German into
pieces. This speaker seemed to get the
loudest applause.

In addition to the speaking, there
were other features added to make the
occasion an interesting and entertaining
one. These included the  baskethall
game Friday afternoon, between the
Varsity and the “All-Stars,” the Faculty
Reception Saturday afternoon, and the
Orchestra and Glee Club Concert and
Fraternity Receptions on Saturday night.

BASKETRALL GAME.

In a fast and interesting game, staged
on the local Y. M. C. A. court, the
Varsity defeated the “All-Stars” on last
Friday afternoon by a score of 28 to 22.
Much enthusiasm was shown by the
large audience of spectators, consisting

of “Manager” Laird and a half-dozen
“dead-heads.” “Eddie” Childs was the
mainstay of the Varsity in scoring, shoot-
ing six goals, Wood also played a good
game at forward. ‘“Jack" Black played
his “usual” fast zame at guard. Murray
scared the most points for the ‘All-
Stars.” making five goals. Vhe main
feature of the game was the fact that
no fouls were made on either side. “Phe
line-up was as follows:

Varsity: Wood and King, forwards;

Childs, center; Walker and Black.
guards, +
“All-Stars”: Murrav and Dean. Jtor-

wards: McAskill, center; McAlister
and Therrell, guards,

Summary: Field) goals, Childs 6.
Wood 5. King 4. Black 1. Murtay s.
Dean 3, McAskill 2. Vherrell t. Twen-
tyeminute halves. Referee, Alexander.
Final: Varsity, 28: “ATI-Stars.” 22.

FACULTY RECEPTION.

Saturday afternoon at § o'clock, a re-
ception was given by the Faculty in
honor of the Junior class, in the Library.
Among those receiving were Dr. and
Mrs. Martin, Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle,
Dr. and Mrs. Currie, Dr. and Mrs.
Grev. Prof. and Mrs. Reed, Dr. J. M.
McConnell, Dr. Lingle, and Prof. and
Mrs. Withers. About a hundred and
fifty guests, including the visiting girls
and Juniors, called during the afternoon.
Delicious punch and cakes were served,
and the visitors spent. a very enjoyable
hour.

CONCERT.

On Saturday night the concert by the
Orchestra and Glee Club was given in
Shearer Hall. It was attended by a
large number of visiting ladies and the
college students. The selections ‘from
the orchestra showed great improvement,
“Melody in F” being one of the num-
bers and especially good.  ‘“Mammy’s
Little Coal-black Rose” was sung in a
charming manner by the Glee Club.
“Tamie” Fowle's solo was “Love, Here
1s My Heart,” and it seemed to have
heen meant for some definite individual
in the audience. Every one enjoved it,
tho.

FRATERNITY RECEPTION,

As)usual, the fraternities united Sat-
urday night of Junior Sepaking in ten
dering a general reception to the large
number of young ladies attendant upon
the exercises. ‘Despite the unfavorable
weather conditions, from ten to twelve,
the couples made their rounds, being
welcomed at the several halls with
cheery fires, and overflowing — punch
bowls. To say the least, the occasion
was enjoved by all.

VISITORS.

Among the large number of lady vis-
iters who graced the occasion were:

Miss Alberta Farmer, Anderson §S.
C.; Miss Minerva Arrington, Mrs. Ar-
rington. Misces Merle Hudson, Ruth
Crowell Julia Hagood, — Elizabeth
Bruns. Mre. Bruns. Charlotte. N. C.;
Miss Elizabeth Grey, Miss Merle Booe.
Davidcon. N. C.; Miss Margaret

(Continued on page 4)

IBasket Ball: Season

Was a Great Suecess

Red and Black Quint Made a Good
Showing in State

‘The season just closed plainly shows
that basketball at Davidson has more
than made good as an intercollegiate
sport and can be classed “major” in
every sense of the word. The record of
this year's Red and Black five is one in
which any college might take pride—
thirteen victories out of a total of eigh-
teen games played.

The schedule included games with
all the leading colleges and Y. M. C.
A.’s of this State and Stetson Univer-
sity, of Florida. Of the colleges, Guil-
ford. Elon, Carolina, Wake Forest and
Stetson, all met defeat at the hands of
Davidson. Only two college defeats
were registered, one by Trinity at Dur-
ham, and the other by A. & M., at Ral-
cigh. These two games were lost dy
very close scores. A return game wats
scheduled with A. & M. at Charlotte.
but was cancelled at a late date by that
team. It was indeed unfortunate that
more games could not have been played
with these two championship claimers,
A. & M. and Trinitv. However, this
could not be, as the small gymnasium
made it impossible to stage the games
here, and it was also impossible to make
another trip in that section. Many
neutral critics have stated thru the
course of the season that Davidson pre-
sented the fastest team in the State. The
season as a whole was more than credit-
able and with the new gymnasium com:
pleted next year we may look forward
to an even better season.

The team’s work, despite many difi-
culties, has been especially commendable.
“AL” Reese finished four years of bril-.
liane service as a running guard. His
floor work was at all times brilliant and
his shooting of foul goals was spectacu-
lar and steady. “Al's” name has been
prominently connected with the present
status of basketball at Davidson, and in
losing: him Davidson probably loses the
hest all-round plaver she has ever had in
this branch of sport.

Captain Hengeveld at center proved
himself to be as excellent «a floor-leader
as he was a plaver. At all times steady,
“Dutch” put up the most brilliant game
af his career. His goal shooting stood
out prominently in every game.

“Eddie” Childs arid George King at
forwards showed up especially well thru-
out the season. Both light, they exhib-
ited an uncanny power at goal shooting
and passing. “Bob” Walker was a
mainstay at guard, his steady and hard
nlaving at all times making itself felt.
“At” Wood, at forward, altho handi-
capped a great deal by injuries, put up
his usual fast and scranpy game. Mur
rav, Dean and McAlister, substitutes.

‘deserve special mention, and thev look

good for next vear. Of this squad Reese
and Murray are the only ones lost bv
graduation, and with the good scrub
material, a winning team for next vear
is assured.

There was no service held in the Pres-
bvterian Church last Sunday night  be-
cause of the flonded condition of the cel-
lar, which made it impossible to heat the
building.
