‘The DAVIDSONIAN December 5, 1917

WAR IS PRINCIPAL THEME

(Continued from page 1)
CONCERT.
The concert given last Saturday! !
night by the Orchestra and Glee Club
was certainly no disappointment to the

large audience which gathered in Shearer

Hall. It was probably the best enter-
tainment that has been delivered by that
organization for some time.
chestra was not as large as previously,
due to so many of the members leaving
college, yet their music was of high or-
der and was a fine accompaniment to the
splendiid singing of the Glee Club. The
entertainment began with the “Marscil-
laise,” sung by the Glee Club, followed
by “Dixie,”
American flag. This called forth long
and vigorous applause. Instrumental
pieces by the Orchestra alternated with

solos, quartets, or choruses by the Glee
Club thruout the program. Vhe features

of the evening were the singing of Fowle,

and of the quartet; also the selections

rendered by the. mandolin quartet.
Fowle’s solo, “Thou Art Like Unto a
Lovely Flower,” was received with such
delight that he was called back twice,
giving as encores, “Joan of Arc” and
“AIl the World Will be Jealous of Me.”
The mandolin quartet was also. much

appeciated, playing a number of the
latest popular airs. The quartet.,
“Jamie” Fowle, ‘Johnnie’ Curry,
“Turk” Shaw and “Bessie” Shields,

brought down the house and were up-
roariously encored several times. “Turk”

seemed to be greatly ticked and enjoyed
himself as much as anyone else.
There” and “They God Wild, Simply
Wild, Over Me,” were the favorites.
The last number was “The Recessional,”
which was sung well by the Glee Club.
During intermission the football “Ds”
and “D.C.s” were awarded by Dr. Ar-
buckle, with appropriate speeches, to the
intense stage-fright of the recipients.
FRAT. RECEPTION.

From ten to twelve Saturday night the
fraternities held their general reception
in honor of the visiting young ladies.
Refreshments were served in the halls,
and the occasion was enjoyed by all.

VISITORS.

Among the visitors who were on the
Hill during Senior Speaking were the

following:
Misses Mary

zie, Salisbury, N. C.; Miss
Cunningham, Statesville,

Juanita Branch, Tampa,  Fla.;
Elizabeth Jones, Chattanooga, Tenn.;
Miss Maude Vinson, Davidson, N. C.;
‘Miss Katherine Bristond, Darlington, 5.
C.; Miss Hattie Dudley, Charlotte, N.
C.; Miss Margaret Brown, Clio, S. C.;
Miss Margaret Overton, Salisbury, N.
C.; Miss Ruth Blake, Greenville, S. C.;
Miss Gertrude Merrimon, Greensboro,
N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Schenck,
Greensboro, N. C.; Mr. John Schenck,
Clemson, S. C.; Miss Elizabeth Brown,
Ripley, Miss.; Misses Grace and Bess
Finley, Miss Ellen Robinson, North
Wilkesboro; Miss Adeline Worth, Wil-
mington, N. C.; Miss Katie Lee Mc-
Kinnon, Maxton, N. C.; Mrs. Angle,
Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Mary Shep-
herd. Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Faye
Blanton, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs.
Humphrey, Greenwood, Miss.; Miss
Virginia Atkins, Boydton, Va.; Miss
Rubyneal Thompson, Orlando, Fila.;
Miss Margaret Rucker, Charlotte, N.
C.; Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Aiken, Sr.,
Taurens; S. C.; Mr. Robert Aiken,
Taurens, S. C.; | Mr. J. H. Teague,
Taurens, S. C.; Mr. Calvin Teague,
Taurens, §. C.; Miss Elsie Moses, Win-
ston-Salem. N. C.; Miss Laura Done-

The Or-

with the display of a large

‘Over

Watson Vaughn, Jose-
phine Vaughin, Lynn Richardson and
Mary Ruth Angle, Greensboro, N. C.;
Misses Mary Hairston and Lucy Irvin,
Reidsville, N. C.; Miss Ellen McKen-
Beatrice
N. C.; Miss
Gertrude Wilson, Sumter, S. C.; Miss
Sue Northrop, Wilmington, N. C.; Miss
Miss

ling, Anderson, S. C.; W. C. McCall,
Roberdell. N. C.; Clara Stogner, Ro-
berdell, N. C.; J. A. Hodgin, Jr., and
Henry McNeill. Red Springs. N. C.;
Miss Berta Louise Willeford, Concord,
N. C.; W. B. Orgain, Greenshoro. N,
CG; Miss Mildred Brown, Charlotte,
N. C.; Miss Bessie Chalmers, Charlotte,
N. C.; A. R. Craig, Pendleton, S. C. x
J. M. Craig, Pendleton, §. C.

The Service for the
Discriminating

Student
| The Bén-Vonde Co.

The South's Largest
Exclusive

Dyers and Cleaners

| 18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

OW
LLAR
Q0F each 26,35" 35° -

REVIEW FOOTBALL SEASON

(Continued from page \)

score made against Tech in three years.
Davidson's loss to ‘Tech 10-32 ‘looked
good tucked in between the shutouts
Tech handed out to Penn and W. & L.
41 to 63—1o a big zero—." @ r 0 Ss.

The fast heavy team of Virginia Tech
nosed out a 13-7 victory over Davidson. ;
D. C. held a 7-6 lead until the last few
minutes of play, when luck came to V.
P. 1.’s aid and enabled them to score a
touchdown just before the last whistle.
According to V. P. I.’s paper, the ‘Vir-
ginia Tech": “Davidson gave Tech her
baptism of fire.” “In the first real
game of the season ‘Techs turned seeming
defeat intd glorious victory.”

J. A. THAMES, . .

BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Complete Line of

College Men’s Suits,/Brady Printing Co.

224 S. TRYON ST.

When Davidson met V. M. 1. in st ‘ Hf " th C ,
Charlotte, they met, for the first time atesville : 0 arolin
during the season, a team with “no ad- Overcoats, Hats and The Coll a
vantage in the waist-line.” A 23-7 vic- je Vollege

PRINTERS

you want Coed Printing and Quick
Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Represeatatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.

‘ory tells the story of how Davidson
tends to a team anything like her equal
in weight.

Furman lost to D. C. 28-7.

On November 10, Davidson met Au-
burn in Atlanta. ‘Davidson smashed
the grand old dope to everiasting smith-
ereens—outplaying and outthinking Au-
burn to the extent of 21-7. "Twas an
affair of beef versus brains—but David-
son had the brain.”

Wake Forest was “easy picking,” and
Wofford, tho fighting gamely, could not

Furnishing Goods at|!

Attractive Prices

DRY CLEANING

stop the “Wild Cats.” : : _ .
Clemson was the “Last Unfortunate” High Grade Laundering Official Fraternity

to meet Davidson. Coach Donahue, of Hats Cleaned & ler:

Clemson, was unable to serve “Davidson Reblocked Jewe ers.

scalps by the dozen—a la carte.” In- enlocke

stead Coach Fetrer' $ fighters Rave. Clem- Ith Ch \ tt La d

son a dose of “21-9 Soothing Syrup.’

(We hope ‘twill soothe). € UHarlOlle LaUNEPy /6i¢ crestnat si. Philadelphia
A clipping from the Atlanta Journal Oldest Largest Best

says of Davidson: “The team often loses

but is never defeated.” “ "Tis the fight-] A. S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers BOOST the ATHLETIC Association

ing team that when downed won't stay . .

down.” Morgan Blake of Atlanta, said, Laundry collected every TUESDAY night By Backing

“We desire here and now to claim the
lightweight championship of the world],
for the Davidson Wild Cats. No team
ever put together in these United States
of the same weight as Coach Fetzer’s
team could ever get the verdict over that |
flock of wild men from North Carolina.”
—And we believe Mr. Blake.

Various and sundry reasons have been
given for Davidson's successes. To save ;
time and trouble—the real reason for
our winning is named—Coach Bill Fet-
zer. Georgia Tech claims the best team |i
in the U.S. Davidson claims the best |
coach—and is prepared to back up her
claim. We firmly believe that if our
“Coach Bill’ had the material, coupled
with the financial backing necessary, he
could turn out a machine that would
almost tear up the Hindenburg line, and
make end runs to Berlin. We give due
credit to our Red and Black fighters —
hut we give more credit to our Red and

The Commissary

Onion Theological g|Fall Line of Athletic Goods, Felt
Seminary 3|Goods, and other College Supplies

RICHMOND, VA. LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

For information, address:

W.W. Moore, D.D.,LLD. %
Principal

Chero-Cola

Made at the cleanest
shop in North

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White
Drug Company

Special Attention te Davidson Men

Bi thinker—"Coach Fetzer, Here’s Carolina
_  * . MP VEMENT You are cordially invited

Davidson ... 6 Naw see 7 A BIG RO to inspect our Sremises

avidson.... 3 A &E......
Davidon. 13 Georgin' Tech, 32} Doing more Work || chero-cola Botting Company |
Davidson.... 7 V. PLT. .... 13 and 10 N. Chareh St. CHARLOTTE, N
Davidson. wee 33 y. M.I..... 7 Better Work i

avidson.... 2 urman.. 7 Facu - Students
Davidson. we. 2] Auburn.... 7 The New Steam Press at the Old ty
Davidson.... 73 Wwete Forest. 7 Stan 4 Have You A ny Type
Davidson.... 62 offord . . ro) -
Davidson.... 21 Clemson . 9 Tobe Johnson writing to Be Done?
Davidson... .254 Opponents . .116 17 Years at the Same Place/See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
