4 . Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, February 7, 1917

RED AND BLACK TEAM Franks . “Oe . .. .- Hengeveld ,
omit om wares) It wate! | Preseriptions Compounded
Marin... CO Ree] SommaryFid gs Henge by Registered Pharmacists
Patton .. .. . Gu ar ds. ++ ++ Walker Holding 3, Franks 2, Thompson 1. Senin. complete line of up-to-date J

Foul goals: Franks 1 out of 6, Reese 2
out of 4. Referee: Clay (Durham).
Time of halves : 20 minutes.

ANNUAL SOPH BANQUET

(Continued from page 1) D . C
oratorical presentation, which all en- V
joyed, and a toast to the old class. The A ID SON O L LE G E
representative and president of the

Freshman class, L. L. McAlister, ex- DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

pressed his shyness at being among so
many upper classmen, but made a splen-

did speech. J. R. Woods, as president
of the Junior class, expressed his thanks
for the honor of this invitation. At I 1Orolu h
the close W. B. Harwood, manager,

thanked the class for the co-operation

which it gave him in arranging the ban- (

quet. Dr. J. W. McConnell, to the

regret of the class, found it impossible ourses

to attend the banquet.

LECTURER COMING SOON.

Fountain. . . We want to serve you.

The Rexall Store WHITE DRUG CO.

CAROLINA GAME.

In a fast and snappy game featured
by a whirlwind finish, Davidson defeat-
ed North Carolina 36 to 31. The
White and Blue five were swamped by
the perfect team work of the visitors,
and with better shooting Davidson's
score would have undoubtedly been
larger. Reese and Hengeveld for Dav-
idson, and Shephard for Carolina play-
ed pretty games, Hengeveld caging
seven field goals. Reese played a great
defensive, and working with Hengeveld
did much towards keeping the ball in
Davidson's possession for two-thirds of
the playing time.

With two minutes to play and the
score 32 to 24 Carolina spurted, and
Davidson followed with an extra spurt.
which gave them the game. The speedy
passing and shooting kept the spectators
on their feet during almost the entre
last half. The line-up follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. CAROLINA. .
Kine ene .. Shepard] Mr, Alfred NoCkandler, of the) WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES
Childs .. .. “Forward . +. Granding Single Tax Service League. of New
ards. ; York. is expected here for an illus ;

Hengeveld (C) Center 1. ++ McDuffie | trated stereoptican lecture at some date

enter. after February 12. Mr. Chandler is °
Walker .. .. «2 «2... C, Tennent) connected with the College Departmen: We Excell in SER V ICE
Reese .. .. ‘Guards. R. Tenne+*| of this organization. The subject af hi:

wu Ss.

lecture will be an explanation of the
Sinele Tax with special regard to its
relation to industrial and social welfare

The single tax proposes that all land
he taxed to its full amount of economic
rent. The idea is to exempt industries
from taxation and that all public reve-
nues are to be received from land: hence
the name “single tax.” This will he of
educational value to all and to students
af economics it will be snecially interest-
ing. This lecture will be given in
Shearer Hall and the date will be an-
nounced later. ,

GYM PLANS ACCEPTED

Field goals: King (5). Childs (2).
Hengeveld (7), Reese (1), Shenard
(7), Granding (4). Perry (1). Fouls
called, 13. Foul shots: Reese (6),
McDuffie (3). Referee: Clay, Dur-
ham Y. M. C. A.

A. & M. GAMB.

In another game featured by a close
score and hard fight, Davidson lost to
A. & M. 32 to 26 last Saturday: With
three minutes to plav the score stond 26
all, and then A. & M. spurted and
nosed out a victory. The work of Rip-
ple featured for the Aggies, and King
was Davidson’s best star. Both c« ms
fave a pretty exhibition and maintained
unusual speed thruout the contest.

You like to trade with a Drug Store where
you get just what you want-—where you are
served in the right way. We are: particular
about our service, and a courteous, respectful
and obliging manner is always proffered you.

Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here

: JETTON DRUG COMPANY $:

: On Tuesday, January 30, the com-

The line-up: mittee appointed to consider plans for The J A I b- BROWN CO
A. & M. POSITION. DAVIDSON. : e
Riool Ki the new gymnasium to be constructed
Cline, Pett ne ne ne ee ne es Childs at Davidson College. met in Charlotte. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ae “1 Dr. Martin oresented the plans for the ¢
D Forwards. W ld vronosed building as recently drawn up Soriety Brand Clothes
ucey .. “Center. engeveld) in New York; they were promptly ac-
Lewi enter. Rees cented and he was authorized to call for Kuapp-Helt fiats
Walker sete te ee ne ee "Walker bids for the immediate construction of
or ane ee oe oe Walle the gym. HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MAN-

HATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

Summarv—Suhs: Dean for Walker. a. ; ,
McDoueal for Ducey, Van Brocklvn| — J- P. Williams, °16, was a visitor to

¢ ing—Fi {the Hill for a few hours on last Satur- . :
Cor tere Tee Tine |dav. Since his eraduaton “Shor” HOTEL STONEWALL|Javidson Pressing Club

Ripple 7. Cline 4. Lewis 2, Tohnson 1.

King 5, Childs 3. Deans 2. Foul goals-|has been in the offices of the Bureau of

Lewis 4 out of 8 chances, Reese 4 out| Municipal Research in New York City]: —Charlotte, N. C.— 6 ulis Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
of 6 chances. Referee: Denmark. Time|and later in Rochester. N. Y. He re-| QTEL BUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.|] DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
of periods: 20 minutes. cently accepted the Secretaryship of the ALL WORK GUARANTEED

WAKE FOREST GAME. State Board of Charities for the State] HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C./

avids ’ 5 of Tennessee and will take tip his duties

a David on defeated Maegan ae he there at once. He will make Nashville HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N.C. oe »
being the first reverse the Baptists had his headquarters for several months and| HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va. Defy i ack F; re ost
suffered on their home floor since 1913. possibly a year. HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va with his chilly blasts and wees |
The game was brilliantly played and -_ , o_ . ° |
fiercely contested, and replete with spec-] At a recent meeting of the Senior J. P. SANDERS, President Spalding

tacular plays. Both teams showed ajclass it was decided to adopt and wear ,
strong defense, but Davidson uncorked|a small lapel button bearing the class

an offense that was too much for their| numeral. and done in class colors, as a U nited Motor Lines

opponents. King and Childs gave|means of class distinction. The button

trouble thruout the game and Reese andfis circular, and will be gold and blue. °

Walker held up the defense in fine _—_—a—_——— Regular Lines Eamablec writs tish

style. “Dutch” Hengeveld was the| Due to the very cold weather of last —_————S covers the. tor that

particular star. His floor work stood|Saturday and Mondav. no class football B turned up. Good

out prominently and he was especially| games were plaved. The series will be etween woreted. with s

dancerous near the basket. resumed Saturday if the weather per-| Charlotte and Statesville pocket on cach side,
The line-up follows: mits. . . o,, roy Price - $8.50

WARE FOREST. POSITION. DAVIDSON. —_—____. We cater to special trips for de ma

Holding .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Childs} Miss Callie _Christenbury, accom- students Omerm of course veend for on canlonve

Carlyle .. . . King] vanied by Miss Marion Mosely, of A. G. SPALDING & BROS. 1.

Forwards. Charlotte, spent the week-end at home.|L.@. Patterson, College Representative 74 N. Breed St. ATLANTA, GA.
