The DAVIDSONIAN December 5, 1917

SIXTH SUCESSIVE VICTORY

(Continued from page 4)

3 over left guard, and Clemson fumbled
on the next play, Davidson recovering.
Clemson was penalized 5 yards for kick-
ing on the decision awarding the ball to
Davidson, Spann hurled a pretty pass
to King for a 35-yard gain and touch-
down, Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 7;
Clemson, 7.

Grey kicked off to Banks on his 15-
yard line, Banks returning 30 yards.
Bartles made 2 around right end. Time
out for Davidson (McAlister). Bartles
made 3 over left guard, Armstrong 3
over right guard, and Bartles lost 7
yards around left end. Davidson’s ball.
Clemson penalized 5 yards. Flowers
made 10 yards thru right tackle. Burns
hit left guard for 4, McAlister made 1
around left end, and on an attempted
pass, Spann lost his footing, being
thrown for a 7-yard loss. A forward
pass was incomplete, and Clemson took
the ball. Armstrong made 1 thru left
guard, Bartles 4 around right end. Arm-
strong 2 over left tackle, and Thackston
punted 35 yards to Flowers. Time out
for Clemson (Gee). McAlister made 7
over right tackle. Spann 2 thru center.
Flowers 4 over left tackle. Time out
for Davidson (Shaw). A forward pass
was incomplete. Davidson penalized 15
yards. On an end around play, King
fumbled, Clemson recovering. Arm-
strong made 5 over right guard, Bartles
4 over right tackle, and Banks 2 over
right guard. Witzel hit center for 3,
Armstrong left tackle for 1, and time
was taken out for Davidson (Elliott).
Davidson was penalized 2 yards for tak-
ing time out too many times. Bartles
made 2 over left tackle, and a forward
pass was broken up.. Davidson's ball
on her own 12-yard line. Grey fum-
bled the pass from center, the bail roll-
ing over the line to the fence. Grey re-
covered and returned the ball almost to
the field, being thrown by Thackston for
a safety within 1 yard of the goal line.
Clemson, 9; Davidson, 7.

Ball scrimmaged on the 20-yard line.
Grey punted 60 yards to Banks, who
returned 2 yards. Time out for David-
son (Elliott). Romfelt substituted for
Elliott. Bartles made no gain around
left end. Time up for the quarter.
Score: Clemson, 9; Davidson, 7.

THIRD QUARTER.

Gee kicked off to Burns on the 15-
yard line, Burns returning 22 yards.
McAlister made 1 over right guard,
Flowers 3 over left tackle, and Flowers
lost 2 around right end. Grey punted
30 yards to Banks, who returned 5.
Armstrong made 1 thru right tackle, but
Bartles failed to gain around right end.
Time out for Davidson (McAlister).
Thackston punted 60 yards over the goal
line. Flowers made 2 over right guard,
the ball being scrimmaged from the 20-
yard line. Flowers made no gain over
left guard, and Grey punted 30 yards
out of bounds. Bartles made 2 thru
center, Banks 8 over left guard for first
down. Armstrong hit right guard for
2, left guard for 3, and Banks made 4
over right tackle. Armstrong failed to
make it first down and Davidson gained
the ball on the 31-yard line. A forward
pass, Spann to King, was good for 60
yards. With the ball on Clemson’s 10-
yard line, a forward pass was broken
up, Spann being thrown for a 9-yard
loss. A second pass was incomplete,
Flowers failed to gain around left end,
and on another pass, Armstrong inter-
cepted the ball, but fumbling on attempt-
ing to return it. Grey recovered and
ran 15 yards for a touchdown, kicking
goal also. Davidson, 14; Clemson, 9.

Grey kicked off to Thackston on the
25-yard line, return 10. Bartles made
s around right end, Armstrong 5 over
left guard. Banks made 1 over left
guard, Bartles 4 over left tackle, a for-
ward pass was broken up, and Thackston
punted 40 yards. Flowers made 9 yards

around right end, and Burns hit center
for 11. A forward pass to McAlister
gained 5. Time out for Davidson (Mc-
Alister). Flowers made no gain around
right end. Spann was thrown for a 6-
yard loss on a broken forward pass.
Flowers punted 30 yards, Banks return-
ing 15. Bartles made 9 over right guard,
but on the next play, Clemson fumbled
in the line and Davidson _ recovered.
Spann was thrown for a 6-yard loss on
an attempted forward pass. ‘Time out
for Davidson (McAlister). A forward
pass, Spann to Flowers, netted a 50-yard
touchdown. Grey kicked goal. David-
son, 21; Clemson, 9.

Grey kicked off to Banks, who return-
ed 10 yards. Banks made 1 around left
end, Armstrong 4 over right guard,
Armstrong hit right tackle for 5 yards.
Quarter up. Score: Davidson, 21;
Clemson, 9.

FOURTH QUARTER.

Banks made 2 over right guard, a for-
ward pass was incomplete, and Witzel
punted 35 yards to Flowers, who re-
turned 5. J. McAlister made 6 over
right tackle, Flowers 6 over left tackle.
Burns failed to gain through right guard,
Davidson was penalized 15 yards.
Flowers made 5§ around right end, and a
punt was blocked, Clemson recovering.
Bartles made 2 over right guard, Arm-
strong 3 over left guard, Banks 4 thru
right tackle, but on the fourth down,
with 1 yard to go, Davidson held, and
gained the ball on her own 2-yard line.
Flowers punted 30 yards to Banks, who
returned 3. Banks fumbled the ball on
the first play, King recovering. Flowers
went around left end for 45 yards, a pass
was incomplete, Flowers failed to gain
around right end, and two forward
passes failed, Clemson gaining the ball
on her own 20-yard line. Bartles made
1 over left guard, 2 around right end,
and a forward pass was intercepted by
Grey. A forward pass to Burns gained
28 yards, Davidson was penalized 10
yards, when a touchdown seemed immi-
nent. A forward pass was broken up,
Spann being thrown for a 5-yvard loss,
and Flowers lost 7 around left end, a
forward pass was incomplete. Flowers
punted 30 yards to Banks, who was
downed in his tracks. A forward pass
was incomplete, Banks lost 5 around left
end, Bartles made 5 around right end,
and Finley punted 45 yards to Flowers.
A forward pass was incomplete. Game
over. Davidson, 21; Clemson, 9.

The oytstanding stars of the game
were Banks and Bartles for Clemson and
Gee and Potts in the line, while Crouch,
Grey and McMaster handled the Red
and Black defense to a perfection, and
Flowers, McAlister and Burns starred
in the backfield. Spann was right there
as usual with his forward passing, and
despite the wet ball, he veraged well.

The line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON (21) POSITION. CLEMSON (9)
King (C).......LE..... Thackston
Shaw........... LT 2.0...

eee ee oe

Crouch, W.......C.........- Gee
McMaster...... RG..... Leightsey
Elliott.......... RT:..... Cannon
Richardson......RE......... Kay
Spann........... Q..... Witzel (C)
Flowers........ RH........ Banks
McAlister, J.....LH....... Bartles
Burns.......... FB..... Armstrong

Substitutions—Davidson: Romefert for
Elliott; Brady for Romefelt; L. Mc-
Alister for J. McAlister; J. McAlister
for L. McAlister. Clemson: Hart for
Cannon; Williams for Thackston; Bates
for Gilmer; Finley for Witzel.

Davidson scoring — Touchdowns:
Flowers. Grey, King. Goals from touch-
down, Grey 3. Clemson scoring—
Touchdiwn: Banks: goal from touch-
down, Witzel; safety, Grev. ‘Time. of
quarters, 13, 14, 10, 10. Referee, Ma-
jor (Auburn); umpire, Williams (Vir-
ginia): headlinesman, Pitts; timekeep-
ers, Edgerton (Davidson), Henry
(Clemson).

| Zhe Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street : Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and
Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats,
Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim
and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR [

Ved : : |

_ Lips

The Rexall Store WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough

Courses

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING

Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance

Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee

Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,CO0O

See us for your events. We carry a full line of

Stationary, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal

Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist.

Have you tried our drinks? Special service
given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ.THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441.2 20: 20: 8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

| Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to ‘“FEEDS.”’ L. A Elliott

Something good to eat ALL the time.

