The DAVIDSONIAN September 19, 1917 5

FORUM

THE ‘LITERARY SOCIETIES.

If you just want a definition of what
public speaking is, go to.some good text-
book on the subject and perhaps you will
find the following definition: “It ‘is

the art of clearly conveying your
thoughts to an audience.” Some think it
sonsists in a flowery display of words or
a burst of eloquence that will take the
audience by storm. A certain business
man struck the heart of the matter when
he said: “Tr isn’t oratory 1 want. but
just the ability to get up and say what
1! think when things are being discuss-
ed.” That is the sort of training the lit-
crary socicties are endeavoring to give
at Davidson. The day of the bombastic

This is well illustrated when someone in
the literary society attempts to “pull off”
eNtrancous matter that is several leaiues
trom the subject and yet sounds good
and lotid. He is usually applanded by
a low whistle of surprise or a call for
the dictionary. The speaker who pre-
sents the actual material on the subiect

is the one who commands your atten-|of vour college course. opportunity has
One listens al-{ knocked at vout door,

tien during the debate.
most instinctively ta such a speech. be-
cause so few of that kind are heard on
the foors of the society halls. This is
not a necessary state of affairs. but fre-
auently is the case. Neither is it an

indictment against these organizations. |

There is no use tn fault-finding un
less remedy can be suggested. At
least two methods of improvement are
here suggested that might be noted by
those interested in soeiety, work. ‘Phe
first is a more consistent study of defi-
nite themes. Tf .an oration is to be de-
livered then let that subiect possess the
timed for at least a short time.  Alex-
ander Stevens said that when he had
once decided on the subiect of his speech.
he would lav it on his desk directly be-
fore him and then force himself to be-
come obsessed with the topic from the
time of his decision until the time of the
delivery of his speech. When the speech
was deivered men called him a genius
but really the credit was due elsewhere.
Of course sometimes men’s minds are
engaged so exclusively by one subject
that the inevitable restlt—insanity fol-
lows. A state of morbidness then ex
ists. “This danger is however rarely en-
countered by the average worker in the
lierary societies at Davidson. He goes
to the other extreme and never lets anv
thing obsess his mind. and hence when
he gets up to speak the audience is ex
pected to give car to a flimsy jumble of
words that grates on the nervous sys-
tem. Ary from the audience of a word
beginning with b and ending with Il
truly expresses what has been said. Such
speaking is a disgrace and perhaps is the
main factor that brings public speaking
into disrepute in the eyes of certain men
an the campus. Let every man put a
definite amount of concentrated study an
every speech he attempts to deliver. It
is better to spend thirty minutes in real
hard consistent work on a theme.- than
to spend thirty days thinking only in
general terms of the question in hand.

The second method is a closer study
of human nature. At first thought this
seems rather vague and indefinite. Hu-
man nature that the sneaker has to deal
mainlv with is his audience. The direct
way in which this can be done is for
the speaker to picture himself, as nearly
as his imagination will allow, as a mem-
ber of his audience. The speaker who
weighs the effect his words will have
on his audience has the secret of com-
manding attention from his hearers. The
evangelist who knows what would ap-
peal to him as a hardened sinner. and
the business man who can make a propo-
sition sound reasonable to the most con-
servative of his class have a knowledge

a

tvpe of speaking is relegated to the past.; occupations, followed by “free board.”

|

rcame to rest—muest

iors too dignified to study, and countless
others, among them increased amount of
work—when such increased _ friction
comes, the momentum of customary
action, or habit (the almost impossible
to overcome) wins the day for your
studies. ,

It is hard to begin work now, wer it
is many times easier to begin now than
at any future time. Incentives are not

of human nature that is an invaluable
aid to the speaker.

The literary societies are splendid
laboratories for putting such principles
into practice and watching the results.
Their imperfections are many, but their
merits. can be easily found by the mar
who is really willing to do a little extra
work. Use a few hours of your loafing
time and test it out.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville : Worth Carolina
The College

PRINTERS

If you want Good Printing and Quick
Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it

R. W. cotsar.  |lacking. It used to be that Freshmen] * GILBERT & PATTERSON
were encouraged to sing solos (generally AT THE COMMISSARY
FOR FRESHMEN ONL. appropriating the words of the laundrs Are Our Representatives at the’College

list to sing) and sing these words to the
tune of the “Hickory stick.” altho pine
hoards were frequently used. too. How-
ever, there are no such drastic incen
lives now, and the nearest approach to it
is the Faculty Supervision Committee,
of which some Freshmen. and some up
perclassmen, arrive almost at the state
of charter membership. But’ there are
noble incentives to high standing in the
Freshman class: there is the satisfaction
ef feeling that vou can look back on
duty well done: if honor appeals to vou
the honor roll offers what vou want: it
means more to have vour name on the
honor roll than to sav. “LE could have
made it toa. Hf TP had tried.” Better it
is to to hard. and at the end say, if
nevessarv, “TL have failed,” than never to
have tred. Ver the Aanor roll is vet
It Remember the medal presented bi
the Afummi co the freshman who make
the highest grade in his class. 1 AVI
Chalmers 20. was the wiriner of (hic
first of thece medals: the second is vet
to he won: Freshman! what are vou go
ing to do about it?

Tv is said that a father once tank hi
san to a college in charge of a noted
educator, “The tather considered all the
courses, and remarked. ‘AIL these
rour-es are too long: | want a short dae
for amv son, something that will not
take up sa much of his time: can you

No, Freshman, the Bonehead isn't the
one who bones: He's the one who does:
n't: a word to the wise—better than
hour lectures to the other kind—On
which side of the fence are you, the in-
side, that circumscribes and limits your
life to one of uselessness, crosstic count:
ing, safe cracking, and simmlar “slacker”

DRINIC

Chero-Cola

THERES NONE SO GOOD

or rock-breaking, road building druglg-
cry?) Or are you on the outside, pre
panag for a life ot konorable. altruistic
work. with the ability to enjoy you
tasks and grasp the acthetics evidenced
in the physical, mental. meral and re
ligious worlds? Whether ever before

or not, certainly now, at the beginning

Made at the cleanest
shop in North
Carolina

You are cordially invited
(to Inspect Our premises

Chero- Cola Bottling Company
10.N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

What a pity
that he (uelike the Sophomores) is too
timid to knock at down and come. in re-
gardle-s of vour inclinations!

Did it ever. occur to vou that.it might
net completely despoil your “college
course” ofall its advantages if you be
gan your sojourn at college by studying
a little? In fact. if you adopted what
plan, vou might change vour idea re
garding the meaning ot “college course,”
and strike nearer to we real significance.

Why. get busy oow?) Why, next
vear vou will be a “bloody Soph.” cand
will be too busy taming the Freshmen to

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Cl ARLOTTE, NC
Lt Patierson, Representative

LISTEN-.--

Let me do your Ko-
dak Finishing Work.

S an : a “ing ven fou 7] he «a se . ey w bd m4
ys , the jolene ¥ ani v wil hae. ive him a shorter course?" “Yes, re Satisfaction guaran-
amo avbe ), ane t never Nav .
Jumion cmaybe) aad Jains plied the famous educator, “but von teed and the work
time for “anything” (in spite of the tact Lnaw that a gourd will grow in a sum t d hedul
that they find time to occupy a seat at ON a returned On schedule
: : mer, hut God takes a hundred vears to time

the table thrice daily!) ; but you say that
you are going to pet down to hard work
when your Senior year comes? Possibly.
but most Seniors, especially those whe
wait till their Senior year to begin, are
teo dignified to engave in such frivolous
encumbrances as studies, and at Com-
mencement “quituate.” freed from the
burden of paving their diploma fees.

It's hard to start to poing the wheels
that are to grind knowledge into these
seemingly impervious heads of ours--
Hard?) Yes, it’s the hard-earned dollar
that we appreciate, the hard nut that

make an oak.” Likewise, in college. it
takes time to achieve suceess in) some
ideals. Later vou will be held more in
respect by your peers: after three vears
with an average of 03. ar over, comes
membership in’ Mimir Societv: the
fourth year three students will hold first,
second and third honor places at com
mencement. Get oun momentum Jew,
avercome aff interfering friction, and
come out wath the flying colors of suc-
cess --isn’t it. worth the effort?
THES,

W. H. HARRELL
84 Chambers

ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON

INVITE YOU TO CALL
ON THEM FOR
Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis 0x-

fords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.00;
Silk Hose, 50c., and many other

contains the good kernel, the hard ; —
fought game that we like to win, Why LIST OF PERIODICALS things that you may need in the

clothing line.
See if we haven’t what you want.

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
By Backing
The Commissary

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt
Goods, and other College Supplies

LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

A BIG MPROVEMENT
Doing more Work

and
Better Work

The New Steam Press at the Old
Stand

Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

can’t we crack a few mental nuts (prob- FOUND IN READING ROOM

ems) and learn to enjoy winning a hard-
tought mental game, and — appreciate
what we have won?) The “knowledge
mill’ is like other machines: — friction
most be overcome, and momentum gain
ed before it will run to advantage. The
first movement is the hardest to make:
momentum soon comes in to lend a help:
ing hand. Physicists say (1 will -have ; Q
to quote them, since | have never tried} be increased in the near future to at
it. but anvway) physicists claim that iffleast twelve. Besides these the follow
a hody. free from frictional influences} (ng papers and magazines may be found:
and gravimetric pull, were set in motion QUARTERLIES. .

jn an open pass thru space, that it would]  Ovarterly Journal of Economics.
continue in motion, at the speed it had] South Adantic Quarterly.

at the start. But friction and gravita- Unpopular Review, The,

tion counteract motion, and the machines MONTHLLUES,

the mentzl world Advocate of Peace.

ohev the laws of of the physical, or, inf American Magazine, ‘The

other words. ought the furtherance of Atlantic Monthly.

mental training he stopt by the friction}! Atlantis.

of dificult studies, or by the gtavimetric Bookman, ‘Phe.

null of worthless distractions from the} Rook News Monthly, The.

duty at hand? No, the momentum| Century, The.

gained at the starting of the wheels| Current Opinion.

should be conserved. and increased by Evervbodv’s.

continued, faithful application to study-| Field and Stream.

ing. Then when the very rough places Forum, The.

come. such as Sophomores too busily en- Harner s Monthlv.

gaged taming the “Fresh.” the Juniors} Hibbert Journal, The.

too busy to do “anything,” and the Sen- (Continued on page 6)

‘Phe following list of reading: matte:
found in the reading reony of the library
is printed as information to the old and
new students and while it is not abo
utely accurate in details it can safely. be
relied upin in case any ane desides to con
sult a periodical. “There are at present
nine dailies taken and this number wali

