4
Regulations Adopted

By the Audit Board Plans for the annual deputation work

Managers of Student Activites to
Receive Salaries.

1. Monthly reports must be made by
managers and treasurers of organizations
included in the Blanket Fee plan. All
reports must be made on or before the
fifth of each month showing the condi-
tion of the organizations for the past
menth.

2. The audit board shall have power
to call for an audit at any time and shall
have access to the books of the organi-
zations. When a call for an audit is
made the following must be submitted :
Cash journal, individual ledger, bank
pass book, and vouchers or other forms
of receipt for all money expended.

3. Payment of fall term salari will
be made after the reports of Dectshber
ist have been received and the books for
the term verified and approved by the
board. In the spring the payments will
be made when books are surrendered and
accounts verified and approved.

4. All records and funds are to be
turned over to the treasurer of the col-
lege at the end of the school year in
May and kept by him to be turned over
to the incoming managers and treasur-
ers of organizations.

5. Pass books are to be surrendered
also and all bank balances to the credit
of organizations are to be held in the
bank for the incoming officers.

6. All accounts are to be opened with
the bank in the name of the organization
for which the manager or treasurer is
acting and not in his name as manager
or treasurer.

7. The audit board shall recommend
to the student body the names of stu-
dents who are to be voted on for places
on the coming year’s board, but this does
not exclude nominations from the floor
at the time of election.

8. The audit board shall formulate
rules necessary for the proper conduct of
the finances of the student organizations
under its supervision.

9. At the conclusion of each college

year the audit board shall make a con-
densed report of the finances of each of
the organizations to the student body
and publish the same in the college
paper.
10. The following scale of salaries
for those .managers and treasurers who
are responsible for the funds of the vari-
ous organizations is announced :

Treasurer of Eumenean Literary So-
ciety, $25.00 (fixed by society).

Treasurer of Philanthropic Literary
Society, $30.00 (fixed by society).

Business Manager Davidsonian, $50.

Business Manager Magazine, $20.

Treasurer Athletic Association, $75.

Business Manager Quips and Cranks
(Annual), $50.

Treasurer Y, M. C. A., $10.

The audit board is able to report that
the books of organizations have been
well kept, on the whole, altho there was
some confusion at first due to the fact
that this is the first year of the new sys-
tem, and a number of details had to be
arranged and adjusted. An itemized
statement of finances for each organiza-
tion will be made at the close of the year.

AS HE EXPERIENCED IT.

“Describe water, Johnny,” said the
teacher.

“Water,” explained Johnny, “is a
white fluid that turns black when you
put yoor hands in it.”—Ex.

I reach into the dark, .
Feel what I cannot see, and still faith
stands. —-Browning.

try. In this conference-he takes a part

ciation for Teachers of English. Not
only is Dr. Fulton known as a Profes-
sor of English and as an author of sev-
eral books, but he is also connected with
other associations for the more syste-

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB

same as the onc taken last year. Leav-
ing Davidson on Monday, the 26th, they
go first to Lenoir, then to Asheville,
where two performances are scheduled
then to Marion. A date in Hickory is
probable, but this has not been definitely
settled yet. They will arrive in David-
son on Thursday, the 29th of March.

You have done what you could. Some

he DAVIDSONIAN, March 21, 1917
CAMPUSSISMS. Dr. BR. o. McLaughlin

VOLUNTEERS BEGIN
DEPUTATION WORK

Judging from the looks of the new

grandstand being built on Sprunt Field DEN I IST

of the Volunteer Band have been com-| there will soon be no need to stand up ;

pleted. It has been the custom for alalong the sidelines. 413 Realty Building Charlotte, N. C.
* * *

number of years for various members
of the Volunteer Band, who so desire, to
visit churches in the vicinity of David-
son and speak in the interest of mis-
sions. This year the plans included
visits to nine churches by about a dozen
members of the band.

Harmony and Bethany churches, near
Statesville; Bethesda, Loray, Statesville
First, Little Joe’s Church at Barium
Spings, Prospect, Kannapolis and
Mooresville First are among the num-
ber that will be visited. Most of the
speeches were given on last Sunday, al-
tho several will not go out until later
in the year.

Those going last Sunday report in-
terest shown in the work which they
represented. The volunteers taking part
in this work are: Brand, Cumming
Rankin, Knight, Hobson, Price, Hamil-
ton, Roberts, Cousar and McClure.
Plans may be made in the future that
will include other members.

Spring must be here, for the shaved
heads have begun to shine forth. An-
other sign on the campus of the approach
of spring is the playing of the very fas-
cinating game of horseshoes.

* * *

Dr. Sentelle: Mr. Johnson, how
many wise men were there?

Johnson: Forty.

* *

A complete line
of Spring and
Summer woolens,
Feather weights
and Kool Kloths.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON

Representatives

*

J. F. George, 19, who has been very
sick with fever, is again able to be out.
* * *

D. S. Epps, '19, is back on the Hill
after a three weeks’ sickness.

* * *
During the past week L. L. Wilson, DRINA,

Good, Sullivan, Chambliss, Guy, “Red”

Smith I, “Red” Smith II and T. N. Chero-Cola
Morton have found it possible to leave J rere non 30 6000
the infirmary. The departure of these 5

men marks the total evacuation of the
infirmary by its inmates.
a om

_-

Madeat the cleanest
shop in North

Carolina

You are cordially invited
to inspect our premises

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Chareh St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. G. Goodman & Go.
Druggists : Mooresville, fi. 6.

Pay us a visit and we will
convince you of the quality
of our goods

FORD TRIP ticcnesviite
. « ANYWHERE—ANYTIME ..

CALL WHITE DRUG CO
-. MO STYLES...

*

PROF. FULTON TAKING
PART IN CONFERENCE

Everyone is glad to see “Dutch”
Hengeveld back on the Hill. He was
called home three weeks ago on account
of the illness of his parents, both of
whom are now much better. The base-
ball diamond, also, will be glad to see
this veteran twirler.

. A +

Dr. M. G. Fulton left Monday for
Macon, Ga., to attend the Southern
Conference for Education and Indus-

in the formation of a Southern Asso-

L. H. Patterson was recently sum-
moned to the bedside of his brother,
who is very ill.

SUGGESTIONS ON A LOST ART.

matic and efficient instruction in Eng-
lish. He is a member of the National
Council of English Teachers, and is the
Southern Field Agent of the Simplified
Spelling Board. Mrs. Fulton accom-
panied him to Macon.

HOW TO STUDY
1. “Yurn the picture of your girl tace
to the wail, .
2. dang your coat over all “works

3. Go to the movies first. You feel
relaxed and can sicep mucn better then.
4. Practice concentration by think-
ing what you would do with a miluon.
5. Keep a calendar above your desk.

One with the holidays in red ietters. The Wallace-Brongh Milly’. Co.

6. Start out studying the easiest ones| gaanonnces their
first. You won't quit as quick. their opening Tharsday
night and Friday March 22-23 at

7. When writing up notes condense
them as much as possible, so that the 9,
meaning is utterly intangible. M. H. Geodram & Co.'s store.

8. Never do at night what you can
do in the day time.

g. Postpone Physics and E. E. ex-
periments until Sunday afternoon. This
will relieve much of the tediousness,

10. Keep in condition by smoking be-
tween rounds.

11. Be sure and turn out the light
before going to bed.—Penn. State Froth.

PLANS ARE ANNOUNCED

The. Orchestra and Glee Club will
start on their next trip on the 26th of
March. This trip is practically the

BIG LINE SPRING SHOES

—_—_—__—— New Styles—Old Prices
LOOKING FORWARD.

Best Championship Tennis

Finish every day and be done with it.

bl —_ , ee TT Shoes........... 1.60
ae eyget them se soon se you|NEW EDITORS OF THE ,
can. Tomorrow is a new day. Begin DAVIDSONIAN ELECTED ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON
it well and serenely, and with too high .
a spirit to be cumbered with your old| On last Friday morning R. H. Stone| ——————$—_—
nonsense. is day is all that is good| was elected Editor-in-Chief of THE
and fair. It is too dear, with its hopes} DavipsonIAN for 1917-18 by the vote The Bank of Davidson
and invitations, to waste a moment on] of the student body. On Thursday DAVIDSON, N. C.
the yesterdays.—Emerson. morning the student body elected O. J.
_ Thies, Business Manager, and O. C. Dees Commercial Banking,
The following clipping from the} Williamson, Circulation Manager. Runs a Savings’ Departm’t.,

Chattanooga News of March 13th will
be read with interest here at Davidson:
“Among workers for the relief of flood
sufferers during the past week who are
receiving much praise for untiring effort
is young William Martin, of Davidson,
N. C., a student at McCallie School.
Many cases of suffering were alleviated
and many rescues accomplished by the
aid of this young man, who, it is stated,
worked day and night during the great-
est part of last week without stopping.
William Martin is the son of the Pres-
ident of Davidson College.”

In addition to these officers, the fol-
lowing men were elected by the staff at
its last meeting: E.G, Lilly, Managing
Editor; E. A. Woods, Assignment
Editor; W. T. Johnson, J. T. Maddry
and R. D. Hall, Assistant Managers.
L. M. Thomas and R. E. McClure
were elected as new members of the
staff.

Has Lock Boxes For Rent.

Your business is solicited

Joba L. Douglas, Pres... W. Thempeon, Cob.
4. Lee Slean, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cah.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White
Drug Company
Special Attention te Davidson Men

Dr. H. G. Cartledge spent a day on
the campus last week making plans for
his work here next year as Associate
Professor of Chemistry.
