The DAVIDSONIAN November 28, 1917

wr

Prepare for Senio
Speaking

GET THAT SUIT
DRY CLEANED

The Ben-Vonde Co.

CINCINNATI MAN jurd’s ball on own 20-yard line. Ellerbe MMIII
ADDRESSFS Y. M. C. A.}failed. around right end. Forward pass, CLARID'
Ellerbe to Keaton, cleared 5 yards. El-

Dr. ‘Fompkins, of Cincinnati, gave the|lerbe punted 30 yards. Ball fumbled by
address at the Y. M. C. A. on last}D. C. Wofford recovers. Wofford's \

)

ee we
en eee ene

Pat Davidson's 45-yard line. Car-
michael gained 1 yard over center. At- Z
tempted pass, Ellerbe to Burnett, inter- La
cepted by Shaw, who returned 8 yards.
Time out for Wofford. Burns hit center
for 4 yards and Spann made it first down
around right end. Spann failed to gain.

Thursday night. He presented three
main lines of thought.

In the first place, God's omnipotence
~—altho God is omnipotent He can do
nothing without man’s help. This limi-
tation must be placed upon God in or-
der to see His real power. His power

Ih

SOO S Sse DODO SOS TT HOOT TAN DT OOOE DS,

is proportional to the limitation placed| Flowers made 3 yards around left end. The South’s Largest
upon Him. As long as man sits with his} Davidson penalized 10 yards. Burns 20F aah 6r35° S65 Exclusive

could not gain around left end. L. Me-
Alister made g yards over tackle. Spann
thrown for 5-yard loss by Earle.  Flow-

ers failed in an attempt for a field goal.
Wofford brought the ball out to her 20- e ro S ;
yard line. Carmichael fumbled. Elerbe @|

punted 48 yards, Flowers received ; fair
catch. Davidson's ball on own 3u-sard _

line. Flowers made 5 yards around left CHARLOTTE. N. C. BOOKS.-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES
énd. McAlister made first down around ° >
right end. Flowers added 2 yards on a B k

jake end run. Burns hit left tackle for . roc mann S
firsts down. Forward pass, Spann to Complete Line of 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE. N. C.
King, incomplete. Wofford penalized
15 yards for holding. Burns made 2

vards th "r,  Sps leared rigt 9 : e ge
eal rm cone, Soa cae! "s""|College Men’s Suits,|Brady Printing Co.

down. ‘Time out for Davidson. Pass. . .
Spann to Richardson, incompleted. Pass. Ove rcoats H ats an d Statesville : Worth Carolina
9 . The College

Spann to King. gave Davidson her fourth
ownchdown. Grey kicked goal. Dav- PRINTERS

dson, 34; Wofford, o.. : .
Grey Kicked off 58 yards to Keaton, Fu r nishing Goods at|l you want Good Printing and Quick
vho returned 25 yards. First half over. Service —BRADY is the Man to Do It

Davidson, 34; Wofford, o. GIL@ERT & MADDREY

THIRD QUARTER. e e AT THE COMMISSARY

Wofford brought out Grey's kick-off rag ive rices Are Oar Representatives at the College

aver the goal line to her 20-yard line.

Carmichael gained 2 yards, but Wofford .

‘alled back and penalized 15 yards for The Hoover & Smith Co.
holding. ‘Carmichael gained 7 yards

around right end. Boyle added 2 more DRY CLEANING —_——

over left guard. Carmichael failed ts:

hands folded God can accomplish noth-
ing. Man must he a co-worker with
God.

What is the force of God in the life
of the average man? Some people con-
sider God as a very indefinite heing. far
remote from them and having no con-
cern about them. The force of Gad ina
man’s life is just what the individual
makes Him. Man with God’s help can
do anvthing. The power of God must
be great when He has all the planets
moving in such great harmony. Yet He
fashions the shape of every snowflake.
So he certainly must feel an interest in
man. A person who tries to guide his
life without God’s help is like a man
who tries to run a train without first
having taken lessons in engineering.
Man willbe brought to account for all
*hat is intrusted in his hands. It is hie
choice whether to guide it in the right di
rection or to wreck it. Which are you
doing?

Dyers and Cleaners

18, 20 and 22 W. Filth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. A. THAMES, . « Agent

SDT OR OSS ST OOOO See:

DAVIDSON HOLDS

(Continued from page \)
Forward pass. Spann to King, made 16
yards. Burns hit left tackle for 1 yard.
Forward pass, Spann to King, gives
Davidson first touchdown. Grey kicked
goal.

Grey kicked off over goal line. Wof-|yain over left guard. Ellerbe punted 4u i ; - .
tord’s ball on own 20 yard line. Car- ards to G. Crouch, who was downed “ High Grade Laundering Official Fraternity
michael made 2 yards over right guard|jis tracks. Crouch hit right guard for| Hats Cleaned & 1
and repeated for 6 vards, Vaughn went 3 vards. J. McAlister tore off 35 yards Reblocked Jewelers&
thru left guard for 1 yard. Carmichael around right end. L. McAlister ham- eblocke ~

failed thru right guard. D. C.'s ball
on Wofford’s 29-yard line. Burns
smashed thru left guard for 8 yards.
Flowers skirted right end for 12. Burns
went over right tackle for 2 yards. Bur-
nett threw Crouch for a 2-yard loss.
Davidson's ball on Wofford’s 9-yard line.
Pass, Spann to King. made touchdown.
Grey kicked goal. L. McAllister sub-
stituted for G. Crouch.

Grey kicked 50 yards to Vaughn, who
returned 20. Vaughn and Carmichael

mered left guard for two gains of 3

yards. G. Crouch carried the ball over The Charlotte Laundry 616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia

the line for a touchdown. Grey punted

out to Crouch. Wofford offside, ne Oldest Largest Best
kick. Grey punted out to J. McAlister. A.S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers BOOST the ATHLETIC Association

Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 41; Wof
ford, o. Laundry collected every TUESDAY night By Backing

Keaton received Grey's kick-off to
goal line and returned 22 yards. Keaton. = The Commissary
Union Theological || Full Une ot Athletic Goods, Felt

made 2 yards over left guard. Mc-
Master broke thru and threw Carmichael
for a loss of 4 yards.- Boyle gained |

failed to gain at right end. Fllerbe|yard over tackle. J. McAlister returned :

kicked 35 vards to Flowers, who re-]Ellerbe 30-yard punt 5 yards. David- Seminary Goods, and other College Supplies
turned 15. Burns tore. up the line for a]con’s ball on own 45-vard line. Massey

16-yard gain thru center. L. McAlister vained 10 yards, but Davidson penalized RICHMOND, VA. LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

followed for 6 yards. Flowers added 4
yards around left end for first down.
Spann hit center for § yards and Burns
cleared 15 vards over right tackle. Time
out for Wofford. McAlister made 5
yards around right end. Spann raced
around left end for a touchdown. Flow-
ers kicked out to Grey, who failed to
kick goal. Davidson. 20: Wofford, o.

Grey kicked 55 yards to Vaughn, who
returned 21 yards. Carmichael made 1
yard thru right guard. Wofford’s first
attempt at forward passing was inter-
cepted by Spann. Davidson’s ball on
Wofford's 30-yard line. . McAlister
made 6 yards around right end. Burns
ran over right tackle for 41 yards.
Flowers failed to gain. Davidson’s ball
on Wofford’s 12-vard line. Quarter up.
Davidson, 20; Wofford, o.

SECOND QUARTER.

Brady for McMaster. Burns smash-
ed thru center for an 8-vard gain. Mc-
Alister hit center for first down. Burns
made another yard thru center. Flowers
ran around left end for a touchdown.
Flowers kicked out to Burns. Grey
kicked goal. Davidson, 27: Wofford. o.

Grev kicked off over goal line. Wof-

1s yards for holding. Grey failed to
gain. 1. McAlister cleared left end - .
and had a clear field except for Fillerbe. For information, address:

who threw him after he had torn off 18 W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD.

yards. Carmichael intercepted pass, but

) ; RINK
was downed in his tracks. Carmichacl |f Principal [
— — rD-
5S

even a

failed to gain thru center. Time out for
Davidson. Keaton gained 2 yards over

left guard, Ellerbe made a first down

WY 7e205 wont sc coor
around right end. Carmichael made 15] _-When in Mooresville Visit— ;

vards on a fake play over right tackle. . . ae
Bovle made 2 vards thru cemter. Keaton The Miller-White Madea t
failed thru left tackle. D.C. penalize

5 yards. offside. Time out for David- Drug Company

son. Wofford’s ball on Davidson's 10:/Speecial Attention to Davidson Men shop in North
vard line. Carmichael hit right guard

for 3 yards. Time up. Quarter over. Carolina

Davidson, 41; Wofford, o. A BIG MPROVEMENT You are cordially invited

FOURTH QUARTER. . to inspect our premises
Carmichael failed twice thru center. Doing more Work Chero-Cola Bottling Company
Pass, Ellerbe to Boyle, failed. David- and 10.N. Chareh St, CHARLOTTE, N. C.
son brought the ball out to her 20-yard
line. Spann failed over right tackle. Better Work

Forward pass. Spann to King. made 24
vards. Pass, Spann to McAlister, gain- The New Steam Press at the Old

F

the cleanest

Faculty - Students

ed another 15 yards. Pass repeated to Stand Have You Any Type-

King for 10 more yards. Flowers added vriti
q around left end. Burnett threw J. Tobe Johnson writing to Be Done?

(Continued on page 6) 17 Years at the Same Place'See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
