Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, April 25, 1917

| Literary Societies |

SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, April 28th:
Resolved, That the United States
should permanently retain the Philip-
pines,

Phlanthropic—Affirmative: McClure,
Mann, Lacy and W, F. Hall. Nega-
rin: Finley, Hart, Reese and Berry-
ill, .

Philanthropic—Declamations: C. W.
Worth, T. C. Stone, Foscue, Fleming,
Roberts and Boney. Orations: Bullock,
Cumming and McDonald.

Eumenean — Affirmative: F. M.
Mitchell, A. Brown, Potts and Keesler.
Negative: T. J. Mitchell, N.S. Rich-
ards, G. M. Robson and Saunders.

Monday morning, April 3oth:

Eumenean — Declamations: Mc-
Cutcheon, McGirt, Potts and J. G.
Richards. Orations: Hobson, Hudson,
Humphrey and Jenkins.

The subject for debate in the Phi So
ciety last Saturday night was, “Resolved,
That the Number of Representatives to
Congress Should be Reduced.” Those
on the affirmative were Murray, Men-
zies, Currie and Ratchford. Those on
the negative were N. Y. Pharr, R. D.
Hall, Fowle and Reese.

The main features of this debate were
its indefiniteness and the lack of pep.
The principal points of the affirmative
were: (1) A small body is easier to
handle and there would be better chance
for debate; (2) By reducing the number
of representatives, the expense of the
government would be reduced; (3) By
having fewer representatives, each one
would have more individual responsibil-

ty.

The negative contended: (1) There
is no need of a change; (2) The people
would not be so well represented; (3)
A small body would be more easily dom-
inted by a few. The decision was in
favor of the negative.

In the regular Monday morning meet-
ing the following orations were given:
T. N. Morton, “The Prodigal Son;”
H. T. Lilly, “The Hayne-Webster De-
bate;’ Thames, “The American Sol-
dier;’ Mann, “Poverty and  Pauper-
ism;” and Williamson, “The Klu Klux
Klan.” R, W. Robinson gave a decla-
mation on “Patriotism and Educational
Service.” : —-

In the Eumenean Society last Satur-
day night, Hobson, Hamilton, Guy and
Keesler represented the affirmative, with
Flynn, Patterson, Liston and Love on
the negative. The affirmative contended
that the present body was too cumber-
some and that a reduction would make
for more efficient legislation. The
negative based its argument on the fact
that other nations have larger bodies and
that to reduce would be to make Con-
gress less representative. The judges’
decision was rendered in favor of the
affirmative.

On Monday morning the following
men gave declamations: Hollandsworth.
“The Married Man and the Button;”
Liston, “The Conqueror Worm.” - Ora-
tions were made by Hobson, ‘“Washing-
ton and Lee University ;” J. R. Woods,
“Sketches of China;” F. M. Mitchell,
“The Danish West Indies; and Kees-
ler, “A Comparison of American and
European Statesmen.”

The officers for the fall term were in-
augurated, and short speeches were made
by the outgoing and incoming presidents.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE
NEXT MONDAY NIGHT

The finals in the Junior-Senior debate
will be held Monday night, April 3oth,
at 7:20 o'clock. The query for debate
is: “Resolved, That a Pan-American
Alliance should take the place of the
Monroe Doctrine.” A. R. Craig, R.

W, Cousar and J. R. Woods, of the
Eumenean Society, will argue the afirm-
ative, while W. C. Cumming, J. L.
Fowle and G. F. Webber, of the Phil-
anthropic Society, will uphold the nega-
tive. The judges will be a committee of
Charlotte lawyers.

COMMENCEMENT PLANS
* CHANGED BY FACULTY

Because the country is in a state of
war and faces the strong probability of
participating to some extent at least in
the suffering and deprivation of the Eu-
ropean countries; and because our Pres-
ident and those with him in authority
have suggested the propriety of a quiet
life, omitting all unnecessary social func:
tions, and the practicing of a careful
economy; and because some of our own
students are enlisting for service during
war, the faculty of Davidson College
has decided to encourage a somewhat
simpler program than usual for Com-
mencement this year. All the forensic
exercises by the students in contests for
medals, the regular Sunday services of
baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A. sermons,
and the regular meetings of the Board of
Trustees and Alumni (including — the
Alumni lunch Tuesday afternoon) will
proceed as usual. No special orators
from a distance will speak, and all social
functions will be as simple and limited
as possible.

The final closing exercises of the Com-
mencement, consisting mainly of the
Senior speeches and award of diplomas,
will take place at noon ‘Tuesday; May
29th, and the college will then close its
eighty-first session.

The college will open as usual with
complete organization for the  eighty-
second session on the 6th of September
next.

From present prospects the entering
class of next fall will be fully as large
as last year. There has been no disor-
ganization of work this spring and the
college has proceeded with class work
and athletic and other student activities
as usual,

For those students who enlist and are
called to the colors before examinations,
arrangements have been made for full
credit for all satisfactory work of the
term. All Seniors called to service be-
fore examinations will be granted dip-
lomas, if in good standing when — so
called.

A number of our students will enlist
for Army or Navy service in one way
or another, but the larger number will
not be eligible and should not be called.
For this and other reasons we distinctly
favor the administration's method of
selective draft or conscription, and we
have urged every student to take up
some useful and productive form of serv-
ice during the vacation, with special em-
phasis laid on the matter of food pro-
duction instead of spending the summer
in unproductive work or idleness.

(Signed ) Wo. J. Martin,

President.

CONTENTS OF NEXT ISSUE
OF THE MAGAZINE

The editor of the Davidson College
Magazine announces that the next issue
will be out in about two weeks. The
following is the table of contents for
the issue:

Student Reading, a Study in Statistics.
L. M. Thomas; Some Smoke, M
Withers; Reminiscences of China, J. R.
Woods; Out of the Night; Terrell Guy;
Napoleon the Great, H. T. Lilly; Slips
and Slippers, William Love; The First
Draw, Benton Hale; It, L. A. Cham-
bliss; a Collection of Student Poetry by
Hamilton, Beall, Lilly, Cumming, Web-
ber, Andrews, Hart, Hunneycutt and
Currie.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

The Vanderbilt Hustler—Chaplain
Frazier, of the Navy, addressed the stu-
dents at Vanderbilt in chapel last week.
He has been sent to Nashville by the
Government as a recruiting officer. He
spoke on Admiral Dewey.

* ® *

Winthrop Weekly News—The stu-
dents te Winthrop College were honored
last week to hear an address by ex-Pres
ident Taft. Mr. Taft spoke on ‘World
Relations,” and emphasized our need for
preparedness.

e

The Hornet—Furman won the de-
bating championship when her represen-
tatives defeated both Wofford and Er-
skine in the annual triangular debate be-
tweén the three colleges. “Phe query
was, “Resolved, That a National Board
of Arbitration with compulsory powers
should be established to settle. all dis-
putes between employers and employees.”

e ® *

The Guilfordian—Vhe Quakers have
won nine straight baseball games, de-
feating such teams as Wake — Forest.
Winston-Salem League team, ‘Trinity,
Wofford and State College. According
tu one article the only reason Davidson
was not in that list was because David-
son was not played. Guilford has a
grand team, but there are nine reasons
at Davidson why it should stop its win-
ning streak.

e a

e ° e
The Agonistic—Agnes Scott is famed
for her beautiful May Day exercises,
and those this year will not be below the
standard, Preparations have been  be-
gun which insure a beautiful and im-
pressive day. ‘The queen of the cere-
monies has already been elected.
e e e

The Trinity Chronicle—Trinity Col-
lege has taken up military training with
a will and over two hundred students
reported for active drill. All students
taking the drill will be allowed to drop
a regular three-hour course and be cred-
ited with it. It is at present planned to
have cighteen hours of drilling a week.

r ° °

‘The Technique and Yellow Jacket—
“Vhoughts of those at Georgia ‘ech are
turning to their annual carnival, which
has been recognized by the students and
people of Atlanta as the pivot about
which Commencement swings. Plans
are being perfected and with the co-
operation of all those interested a suc-
cessful carnival is assured.

e ° .

College Topics—Vhe basketball team
of the University of Virginia cut short
its schedule of games on account of the
movement for preparedness. Several
companies drill daily on the athletic
field. ‘The Board of Visitors decided
that the spring term should close May
31st, and that there should be no

FACULTY REGULATIONS
CONCERNING ENLISTMENT

All Seniors, candidates for graduation,
who apply for enlistment either in the
Officers’ Training Corps for the war or
in the regular arms of service, will, if
summoned by the War Department be-
fore their regular examinations, be given
full and final credit for every ticket on
which at the time of summons they are
passing to the satisfaction of the profes-
sor. If this clears their record they will
be granted their diplomas at Commence-
ment. If behind on any ticket which
they are pursuing now or have pursued
in class, they will, on application to the
professor, be given an opportunity to
make it up after they are notified of ac-
ceptance by the War Department and
before they are summoned to report.
The same ruling will apply to under-
graduates in so far as finishing the work
of this year is concerned.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tena.

Offers a complete three year
Law Course

Write for Cetalogue

CHARLES H. WILBER, Secretary
Member of the Association of American Law Schools.

The Wallace-Brough Millinery
Company
have everything, the very new-
est and most attractive in the
Millinery Line.

For Sale

A SIX ROOM COTTAGE

On North Main St. joining
Mrs. Young’s.

Lot is 150 Front By 306 Feet Deep.
R. F. Andrews, Davidson, N.C.

BOOKS.-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit
orders for lubricating oils, greases and
paints. Salary or Commission. Address

finals.| LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

Montreat Summer School
Montreat, N.C.
Established and controlied by the Mountain Retreat Association

9... Third Annual Session. Six weeks beginning July 3rd.
Classes and private instruction in Ancient and Modern

Languages. History and Mathematics.
ed at most colleges and universities.

Certificate accept-
Also work of the

Grammar Grades and Kindergarten given. Send for an-

B.| nouncement.

Address Prot. Thos. W. Lingle, Director, Davidson, N. C,

Patronise Our Advertiser FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in

THE DAVIDSONIAN

If he hasn't it, Try the Other, Fellow. Tell him that he has something
that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
