2 The DAVIDSONIAN, December 5, 1917

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Students of Davidson College.

Base Hospital, Camp Jackson, S. C.
Editor Davidsonian:

Permit me to use your columns to con-
gratulate the college and the members
of the football team for their wonderful

A fine piece of humor which is appli-
cable to the modern draft-dodger is in
regard to merry Jack Falstaff. Prince
Hal said to Jack, “Why, thou owest
God a death.” Falstaff replied, “ Tis

erie Opening

R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief | not due yet: ] would be loath to pay season. All Davidson men in camp .
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor him before his day ‘ have followed the reports of the succes- Groceries, Candies
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor sive games with great enthusiasm and and Cigars

J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor AGAIN—THAT SPEECH. we wish we could have been on hand to

L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor! We wish that we could find the body| see the glorious finish. We are now an-||] In the Helper Building

Your Patronage Solicited

of old Protagoras in a mummified form|xious that each student engage earnestly

Tue Starr. . . “1 . 4

in one of the columns in front of old|and seriously in the military training of
L. M. Thomas, Jr. R. E. McClure | Chambers. It would be nice to gougge| fered this year at Davidson. You will J. F. CASHION & SON

J. B. Woods, Jr. A. P. Saunders | beneath the flesh wrappings and extri-|need it far more than you imagine.
J. B. Daffin J. R. Wood cate a piece of his old Grecian flesh| Every single one of you who is able
M which is centuries old. Then to make bodied and without dependents will be

ANAGEMENT. this air tight in a nifty- transparent, thin] in service some day and you may as well G

. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager| glass case which could be worn as a|begin your training right now and get ermany \

accustomed to discipline. When I tell
you that 80 per cent of the medical. of-
ficers here are over forty years old and
almost all of them with dependent fam-
ilies, and that we are out at daylight
these mornings at drill, you will under-
stand that the drill at college is mild.
The war will not be won by Liberty
Bonds, Red Cross and Y. M. C. A. or-
ganizations, though they are necessary
adjuncts to an army, but it will be won
with fighting men who are well trained.

It is an inspiration to see these fine|®

young line officers here from Davidson : Some e G ood
and other similar institutions and noth-/#
* Bargains *:"

ing gives me such pleasure as to have one| #
hail me as they march by. I had three|j
e
Florsheim
Shoes

of them for patients today—no serious|#
ailment—and it was like old times to/
At Last Season's Prices
General Line of Merchandse

have them under my care. I heard from{#
two more Davidson men “over there’ |#
BROWN-KNOX
MERCANTILE Co.

watch charm.

This done, we would like to give every
student one and everyone else (as far as
they would last), who will not try to
improve his speech. Then as you con-
continually looked at this we hope that
you would get that distinct, clear note
which this old rhetorician preached. The
| thing ringing thru all the ages from Pro-
W. | tagoras is the insistence for the correct-
ness of speech. ‘This might, as well as
being interestingly gruesome, serve’ as a
gentle reminder to charm the thought
when outward expression was being
given to the mind thru words. Wouldn’t
this be a good pre-New Year resolution
— insist that your lips give a pure expres-
sion of your mind ?

. Williamson Circulation Manager

Does not keep us from delivering

The Best Fresh Meat

Phone orders solicited

White’s Market

Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

. Stone...:... Assistant Managers

Reporters’ STaFr.

Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M.
Orgain.

Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr.,
M. Currie.

Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W.
Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm.
Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Ham-
ilton.

Additional Reporters are J. R. Boul-
ware, Jr., A. S. Potts, W. J. Knox and

B. W. Robefelt.

ATTENTION ! JUNIORS.

Did you listen to all the Senior
speeches? If you did, were you not im-
pressed with the number of mere chron-
icle-war speeches, or some other aspect
which was of a wholly narrative char-
acter? No doubt some of you will be
thinking of your Junior speech during
the holidays. In the name of Demos-
thenes please give some of your own
ideas and opinions and expressions—
something that you have thought about,
or something about which you can think
consistently, It is for your good that we
hope that Dr. Currie will refuse them
if they are narrative, rather than the
product of originality.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COL- :
LEGIATE YEAR. this week and they wanted to know when |#
I was coming along and they also wanted |
to know how military training was get-|&
ting on at Davidson. Al! of them de-|8
plored that they had no opportunity to
have a course in military training while] §
in college, for the training is so intensive |}
now that even a little previous knowl-|#
edge is of great value. With all good|§
wishes, I] am cordially vours,
Joun W. McConnett,
Capt. M. R. C.

Batered es second-class matter at the Postoffice,
Davideon. N. C.

eeene#e#e#e#+¢eee¢ @

° EDITORIAL °

eeee#ee#s¢e¢e6 eenoee

ETHICS OF THE SALUTE,

Those of ‘us who wear uniforms com-
plete, or partially, including the hat,
must adopt the forms of the salute. ‘The
hat is never supposed to be lifted in the
ordinary salute of respect. Instead, the
hand salute is given, which is just as re-
spectful as is the civilian salute.

Students have been saluting students.
Two enlisted men do not salute. You
did not raise the hat to them. When
you meet a professor you should simply
give the hand salute without making any
pretension to lift the hat. He should
consider this of just as great respect.
This same salute is used in greeting a
lady. It may seem unnatural, but we
should get the habit and soon it‘ will be-
come a reflex,

Tf the salute is to carry with it the
military esteem we must stop saluting
privates and reserve it for ladies and —
superior officers—the professors. Many of the students have contri-

buted to the columns of this paper and
. many have served faithfully as reporters

We are glad to have had the ladies On| for the past year. The Sstaff thanks
the Hill. We hope that they enjoyed |them all for their work and wishes them
their visit in proportion as their presence | 4 very pleasing vacation with a Merry
added grace and charm to the campus.| Christmas and Happy New Year.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle notifies us
that only domestic postage rates apply
to all mail sent to him. He also states
that his address,has been changed to
care Army and Navy Y. M. C. A.,

Paris, France.

FELLOWS!

Be Patriotic. Patronize
the Home Industry.

OUR WISH.

For every student we hope that he
will have the very best success during the
examinations :—that everything will con-
spire for making hundreds on every
ticket.

We take this final privilege for wish-
ing our many high school readers,
friends, college men, and = alumni a
Merry, Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year. May every pleasure and
success be with you,

Give your Shoe Work
to the

Davidson Shop

Work delivered within
two days

IEDMONT
: THEATRE :

NORTG TRYON ST. CBARLOTTE, N. C.

SMITH, Agent

Best Material,.Best Work, Best Price

Complete change of
program twice 2
week.

Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville

Ep. Davidson, N. C.,

1917-18.

Friday and Saturday: the best seller— -_
Luden’s Cough Drops. “SELF-CONTROL” IS TOPIC

YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED
FOR JOINT{MEETING | te

Gentlemen:--
If you are pleased,
tell others. If not, tell me.
M. E. Edwards,
22 Chambers Bldg.
Davidson Manager for
Dick’s Laundry Co.

Victo Hugho once said, “Imitate
Paris [formally], you will ruin your-] «geig-control” was the topic discussed
self. at the joint meeting of the Volunteer

TTT Band, the Ministerial Band and the
‘LAST ISSUE THIS YEAR. Christian Endeavor Society last Sunday

One of our cartoonists contributed a]night. The;leader, W. M. Currie, gave
unique sketch which is not printed this{a good talk on self-control with  sev-
week on account of lack of space. It]eral illustrations found in history. As
represents a student being chased by the] it was the regular time for the monthly
devil and death, each of which represent| consecration meeting, the secretary call-
examinations. The student is “balling|ed the roll of the Christian Endeavor
the jack”” in two ways—in tears and injSociety and each member answered with

tn nee Seite line you
eed
N »* 0c ing
SPALDI
No. M
speed. We—the editors—are human]a verse of Scripture. After making his BASKET BALL

and students too, and we are apt to run|‘alk the leader threw the meeting open Cntaleee on soqoent, _fect in every detail

so far that we cannot appear again in| for discussion and an unusual number of
print until January. good talks: were given. THE COMMISSA RY

A. G. SPALDING & BROS,, tac.
74.N. Broad St. =: = ATLANTA, GA,

‘ALL @

Patronize Our Advertisers.
Mention Tue Daviwsontan.
