Vol. V.

Davidson Loses
Hard-Fought Game

Winning Touchdown Scored Dur-
fag Last Seconds of Game.

In a hard fought game Davidson lost
to V. P. I. last Saturday by the score
of 13 to 7. From the very beginning
the game was excitirig, and not until th:
end was victory certain to either side.
In the fourth quarter with the score 7
to 6 in favor of Davidson, and but three
minutes to play, luck broke against Dav-
idson just as it has several times this
season. A Davidson player fumbled the
ball on his 15-yard line and Roden, of
V. P. I. recovered. But for this mishap
the result would no doubt have been
different.

The first half was hard fought, with
neither side being able to score. The
ball see-sawed up and down the field
with several exchange of punts, the
teams being about evenly matched.

In the third quarter, with the ball on
Davidson's 2§-vard tine, Peyton, V. P.
I.’s star drop-kicker, was substituted for
Benner, and kicked a field goal shortly
afterwards. A little later he duplicated
the play from the 45-yard line.

Davidson scored her only touchdown
late in fourth quarter on a long forward
pass from Flowers over*the goal line to
King. Grey kicked goal, making the
score 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson.

With three minutes to play, D. Roden
secured a fumble on Davidson's 16-yvar-t
line. Successive line bucks brought the
ball within a foot of the coveted goal
line. and on the last plunge, Godsey.
Tech's big fullback. carried the ball over
with a vicious plunge under the uprights
Captain Parrish kicked goal. The stars
for Tech were Currie, Younger and
Godsev. For Davidson Flowers featur-
ed thruout the game, while Burns’
and Shaw’s defensive work was of a high

order. Barring fumbling. the game was
a highclass exhibit. Line-up:
Hardwick .. .. .. .. .. .. King (C)
Left End
H. Parrish (C) .. .. .. .. Spann
Left Tackle
McNeil. .. 1... .. .. .. McMaster
Left Guard
Currie... .. .. .. .. .. .. B. Crouch
Center
Younger .. .. .. «2 .. Elliott
Right Tackle
Crisp... 1.0.2.0... 2. ... Grey
‘ Right Guard
Lester .. .. .. ..... .. .. Richardson
Left End
Lybrook .. .. ..*.. .. J. McAlister
Quarterback
Wiegel .. .. .. .. .. .. .. G. Crouch
Left Halfback
Benner .. .. Flowers

Right Halfback
Fullback
Svbstitutions—V. P. I.: Pevton. Mill-
er. D. Roden. Davidson: Milev, Rome-
felt. Clark, Harris. Spann, L. McAlister.
Touchdawns—Davidson: Spann; V.
P. I.: Godsey. Goals from touchdown:
Grey, H. Parrish. Field goals: Peyton
(2). Time of auarters: 12 minutes,
Referee: Marshal (Maine); umpire:
Williams (Virginia); headlinesman:
Miles (V. P. 1.): linesmen: C. Parrish
(V. P. 1.), and Clark (Davidson).

.. .. Burns

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. OCTOBER 24, 1917.

Governor Bickett

to Address Students

Will Be the Priacipal Speaker
Davidson Day.

The annual celebration of Davidson
College Day, on Thursday, October 25,
will be featured by an address by Gov.
T. W. Beckett. The subject’ of his ad-
dress has not been announced, but it is
vertain to be appropriate to the times.
Besides the presence of Governor Bick-
ett, it is hoped that Prof. J. H. Hill, of
Statesville, a graduate of the class of '54,
will be present. Professor Hill is the
oldest living graduate. of Davidson, so
far as the records show, and it will add

ito the interest of the occasion to have

him present.

The other exercisrs will be conducted
as usual. Dr. J. M. McConnell will
tell of changes among the alumni. Pro-
fessor Currie will report on deaths of
alumni during the past year. Another
speaker will outline the part Davidson
men are plaving in the war. The work
of distinguished alums will alsu be men-
tioned and the henar roll and punctual
ity roll will be read.

These exercises will be conducted in
Shearer Hall, beginning at 9:50 a. m.
An hour and forty minutes will be al-
lowed for the exercises, this time being
entten from the vacant period on the
Thursday schedule and by shortening
the other five periods ten minutes <ach
The students will be required to atiend
and the townpeople are invited.

HAWKINS AND HALL
ARE DOUBLES CHAMPIONS

JT. W. Hawkins and W. F. Hall de
feated J. H. Miller and W. M. Jones
winners of doubles in tennis tournament
an Thursday by the scores of 6-1, 7-5.
6-3. The match was featured hv the
spectacular smashing of Hawkins, who
kept his onponents on the defensive thru-
aut, and the offensive steadiness of Hall.
“ho played a strictly scientific game.
Miller and Jones played well, but were
-amoletely helpless before the teamwork
of the champions.

The winner of singles in the tennis
tournament mav select a partner and
challenge the winner of doubles (for
*he college championshin) ; Hall was
‘elected hy Hawkins. Davidson could
nat be represented by a better team than
this pair. It is hoped that the manage-
ment will secure several matches with
colleges of this State this season.

GUNS HAVE BEEN
ORDFRED FROM NEW YORK

Everyone is well pleased with the
progress the students are making in mili-
tary drill. They all seem to be interest-
ed in the work. The drill is much pre-
ferred to the old gvmn exercise.

Wooden guns for drill purposes have
been ordered from New York with
promises of immediate shipment by ex-
oress. These guns were included in
cost of uniform and will entail no ad-
ditional cost to the students.

The uniforms are exnected to arrive
same dav this weck and the arrival of
these and the ouns will mark the real
begnning of military training.

SONIAN |

No. 7

V.M. Lis Opponent —_[Dr. J. M. McConnell
Next Saturday; Lectures on the War

Large Number of Students Expect|txplains Clearly Why America
to See Game. (Has) Eotered the War. -

That well known and dangerous Red} Dr. J. Moore McConnell addressed
and Black squad goes to Charlotte Sat-| he entire student body Thursday morn:
~rday to meet the Cadets from Virginia! ng, speaking on “The Reasons Why
Military Institute. When the whistle} \merica Went Into the War.”
blows and the ball is kicked off, one off Dr. McConnell enumerated three rea-
‘he hardest fought games of the season] ons for which America is now in this
will begin. The Davidson team will be] -orld struggle. First. in defense of
‘auch lighter than their opponents, but} ‘nternational rights and laws. Germany.
their invincible courage and excellen*|he said, has repeatedly violated all in-
‘raining will fully make up for what! ernational rights. She has sunk ships.
*hey lack in weight. A large number of | remy and ncutral, without warning and _
‘tudents are expecting to go down to the] vithout provision for the crews and pas
game and you can look for lots of “pep"| envers. She has used liquid fire, as
and a hard battle. shiviating gases. and other inhuman

The fight that Davidson put up| vethads of warfare against her enemies.
against Georgia Tech ranks her as onc] Numerous times she has ordered that all
af the best teams in the South. The|orisoners be shot.

“Yellow Jackets” defeated the Univer-| Second, in defense of humanity. Dr.
sitv of Pennsylvania and Washington | McConnell sid, “Not even the unspeak-
and Lee by large scores, not permitting | ible ‘Turk has equalled the German in
‘heir opponents to score a single powt-| -ruclty.” Her sinking of neutral ships
However. Davidson scored ten points | yithout warning and without provision
making Tech work harder than she hac! tor the crew, her bombarding of school
Nad to work for a victory this season. |nouses, hotels and hospitals, her treat
"€ V. M. I. expects easy going Saturdav| nent of her prisoners and the Belgians,
he is hadlv mistaken. for Davidson is} ire all crimes against humanity.
raing to give her the fight of her life.

Third, we have gone into the war in

TOO defense of ourselves. ‘The sinking of
DR. W. W. MOORE WILL mir ships by Germany was the immediate
DELIVER OTTS LECTURES] -ause of our entering the war. Then,
; America saw that war was inevitable.

The college has secured Dr. W. W.|Officials of our War Department. pos
Moore, president of Union Seminary, to|sess facts showing that Germany intend
‘eliver the Ortts’ Lectures next year./ed to capture America. The United
This course of lectures will be given be-|States has gone into the struggle asking
fore the faculty and student body somejno territory, no indemnities. Her sole
time during the year 1918-19. Dr |nurpose is to dethrone from the German
Moore has not as yet announced his!Government a house in which she can
subject. place no trust.

The college received in 1893 a fund] We entered the war not only for our
from Dr. J. M. P. Otts, "59. the pro jcelyes, but. for humanity as well. And
ceeds of which were to be uséd in secur-fhy entering the war, Dr. McConnell
ing and publishing lectures delivered atlciid, “we are rendering for humanity
Davidson in defense of Christianity, STthe greatest deed that has ever been per
necially against those heresies directed | formed. His closing words were.
against the foundations of the Christian|“What greater love hath any man than
faith. . this, that he give his life for his friend;

Dr. Orts delivered the first course offexcept that he give it for his country, or
lectures himself. These were later pub: [f,, humanity.”
lished by Revell & Co.. under the title
“Unsettled Questions.” The second
course was given by Dr. John R. Dab-
nev a year before his death. and were
published under the title “The Atone-| Ht was with regret that the  town-
ment.” people and students of Davidson heard

During the 1904-05 session Dr. J. B [of the death of Mrs. C. Campbell last
Shearer delivered the third course. This |Sunday night, October 21, after a three
course was published by the Preshvte-|-lays’ illness. Mrs. Campbell was Miss
rian Committee of Publication, Rich-| Muse, of Carthage, N. C. After her
mond, under the title “Modern Mvsti-|husband’s death she moved to Davidson
cism; or the Covenants of the Spirit.” (and has kept a boarding house for stu
dents on North Main street for fifteen

DR. RICHARDS HOLDING vears or more. EF. R. Campbell and

. ; <j {relatives from Moore County arrived
SERVICES AT RETHEL Monday night and the burial took place

‘n the Davidson cemetery Tuesday
morning.

Mrs. Campbell is survived by two
children, E. R. Campbell, ’14. now with

MRS. C. CAMPBELL.

During this week Dr. Richards is con
ducting services at the Bethel Church
Beginning last Sunday afternoon he ha

been holding meetings twice a day, at
10 o'clock in the morning and at 7
in the evening. These services will be

concluded Saturday afternoon.

O. C. Williamson, ’18. and R. W

the Coast Artillery at Fort Caswell. and
Miss Louise Campbell, a Junior at the
State Normal College.

J. R. Minter, 13, M.A. ’15, who is

Robinson, 't9, spent Sunday at Steele|now a second liteutenant in the Marines,

Creek.

was on the Hill last week.
