PARTS OF ANNUAL
SENT TO PUBLISHERS

The work on the Annual is being rap-
idly rounded into form. All of the zinc
plates, a good proportion of the literary
work and some of the halftones have al-
ready been sent off to the hands of the
engraver and printer and the remainder
will be sent as soon as it is available. The
staff wishes to announce that a large pro-
portion of the students have handed in
drawings, snapshots and literary ma-
terial, and the aim shall be to make it as
representative as possible of the entire
student body. ‘The staff assures all that
the Annual will arrive on time. The en-
deavor has been to make the Annual
unique and distinctive this year and any
suggestion by any of the students will be
greatly appreciated. Considerable work
has been put on the athletic, fraternity
and humorous sections of the book, and
it is hoped that these sections will be
well received. The staff wishes to take
this opportunity to thank those who have
spent time and trouble in getting in the
material, and hopes that all will continué
to support their publication as they have
in the past. Because of strained condi-
tions this year in all of our colleges, this
support is particularly needed and ap-
preciated.

AMERICAN COLLEGE
MEN AND ‘THE WAR

“Tam not sorry, but proud that go per
cent of Harvard University has gone
into the war.” President Lowell ex-
pressed this feeling last night in speaking
of Harvard’s depleted fall registration.
His sentiment is no doubt shared by
many other college presidents all over
the country.

The loss of over half of the two upper
classes at Yale, Princeton and Harvard
is duplicated in many colleges. The pro-
fessional and graduate schools other than
engineering show even heavier _ losses.
The Harvard Law School and Graduate
School of Business Administration reg-
ister only 32 per cent and 34 per cent
respectively of their normal numbers.

On the other hand there is a larger
attendance at many military, engineering
and medical schools, as illustrated in an
increase of 8 per cent in the Harvard
Medical School.

The large number of Freshmen en-
tering the colleges of all sections shows
the willingness of men under 21 to be
drafted to go to college in accordance
with President Wilson’s expressed wish
in his letter of July 20th to the Secretary
of the Interior.

The often repeated criticism that col-
lege men have little sense of responsibil-
ity has been given the lie in the facts
shown by the present war. Of the 62,-
000 men in the officers’ training camps
held this summer a large percentage was
composed of college men. Of the men
at Fort Benjamin Harrison training to
become officers, 80 per cent were from
the colleges. At Williams Collegge 95
per cent of the student body was in mili-
tary training within two weeks after
war was declared. At one State Uni-
versity 1,950 men out of 3,600 left for
service before commencement, at another
1,000 out of 1,800 left, and in yet an-
other only 100 men remained out of 580.

The colleges have also given the best
brains of the faculty to the use of the
nation. President Garfield, of Williams,
heads the new Department of Fuel Ad-
ministration, while hundreds of profes-
sors are engaged in the work of various
boards which are conserving our national
resources,

Much physical equipment of many in-
stitutions is taken over by Uncle Sam.
Wofford College turned over its dormi-
tories to 200 Plattsburg officers pending
completion of the Spartanburg camp.
Harvard has given to 1,500 naval radio
students the exclusive use of six build-

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN February 6, 1918

ings, including the gymnasium and the
largest dining hall, and is soon to start
another government school—this time
for ensigns. The War Department or-
dered 550 picked men from the officers’
training camps of the country to report
to Cambridge to be instructed by the
French officers whom Harvard brought
over last spring to teach its own students.
This “Iron Battalion” went from Har-
vard to pass on to others the methods of
French warfare learned at Cambridge.
The important “ground school” for
aviators at Princeton has taken posses-
sion of several buildings and Brockow
athletic field.

Athletics of American colleges have
been made subservient to athletics of the
American army and navy. Driver, the
former star halfback at the University
of Virginia, is Director of Sports at
Camp Jackson, South Carolina. Football
Coach Bender, of the University of ‘Ten-
nessee, is making physically fit the sol-
diers at Greenville, S.C. Walter
Camp, Jr. .of Yale, directs athletics at
Camp Hancock, Ga. Eddie Mahan,
captain of Harvard’s champion football
team of 1915, is in charge of sports of
the sailors at Philadelphia. It was at
Princeton that former coaches gathered
last month at the meeting of Directors
of Camp and Cantonment Athletics of
the country. Every athlete who had won
his letter at Columbia has enlisted in
some form of government service. In
Canada and in many colleges of — the
States intercollegiate competition has
given way to interclass and interdepart-
ment contests. This allowed the vast
amount of energy and money formerly
devoted to the “big”? games, such as at-
tracted 82,000 spectators last fall to the
Yale Bowl, to be directed to many forms
of war activities. It also enables many
more individuals than formerly to de-

velop themselves as athletes, and helpscty
make “the real contribution t e na-
tional defence” which President Wilson

says will justify sports in war time.

Hundreds of college men have gone
into the Army Y. M. C. A., ambulance
and Red Cross work. Cornell's ambu-
ance corps of 32 men were the first
Americans to get into active service in
France after we entered the war.

The, Intercollegiate Intelligence Bu-
reau at Washington is a voluntary or-
ganization of college men which utilizes
the information secured through the re-
cent census taken by 200 different col-
leges. This plan enables various gov-
ernment departments to know who are
the available picked college men of the
country who are trained for various
kinds of special service. Already 2,500
men have been located for government
work through the agency of this Bureau.
There are 41 Southern colleges actively
co-opertating with the Bureau.

The service of college men of the
‘United States promises to be worthy of
the example sct by the great universities
of England, Canada and France. The
world will see that American college

men are ready to make the supreme sacri-

fice, and that those who are to do their
bit at home will be mindful of their ob-
ligation to those who have gone.

The words of Henry W. Grady at
the University of Virginia in 1889 are
today invested with new meaning. This
prophet of the New South spoke for the
nation when he said, “The university is
the training camp of the future; the
scholar the champion of the coming
years. Waterloo was won at Oxford.
Sedan at Berlin. Napoleon overran Eu-
rope with drum tap and bivouac. The
next Napoleon shall form his battalions
at the tap of the schoolhouse bell and his
captains shall come with cap and gown.”

The performance of a duty is never a
useless office, though we may not see the
consequences, or they may be quite dif-
ferent from what we expected or calcu-
lated on.

tba lesL de ie IE |

e-Brown Company

11, South Tryon Street : Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and
Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats,
Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim
and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

ee mp Tite a

CANDIES —-~arisriae
= ‘OUR LIPS OVER’

: at
Ihe Rexall Store WHITE DRUG Co.

American Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING

Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance

Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee

Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,C0O

See us for your events. We carry afull ne of

Stationary, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist.

Have you tried our drinks? Special service
given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.

m PHONES 441.2 203 702 8 N. TRYON ST.
: CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to ““FEEDS.”’ L. A Elliott

Something good to eat ALL the time.

