The DAVIDSONIAN April 24, 1918

LETTER FROM DR. LINGLE.

The following extract is from a letter
of Dr. T. W. Lingle’s, who has been in
the Y. M. C.. A. work in France for a
number of months. “lhe letter was to
one of his student friends, and his de-
scription of the artillery activities should
be of deep interest to all of us. He
Writes:

“Well, beginning March 12, the
Boches bombarded my corner of the
country every day for a week with their
long range guns, tho no shell fell right
in our camp. ‘They came very near on
three sides. When a big one exploded
anywhere within half a mile, it seemed
to be right outside the barrack, and the
screaming shrapnel seemed to be coming
thro our quarters. One night they be-
gan at nine and continued for an hour.
Night before last they began promptly
at eleven, just as I got into my cot. As
sleeping was not good, | decided to
count the shells, Most of them went
thagonally across a point to my front te
a point on my right, screaming as they
went. 1] counted exactly 50, of which
10. failed to explode. ‘Those that did
explode caused the hills to shake and re-
echo for some time. At midnight they
stopped. At dawn | was wakened by
the machine-gun fire of a hostile aviator
attacking a convey on a nearby road,
and then the anti-aircraft cannon that
volleyed forth at him. - 1 hope the fel-
lows with the machine guns may not
have occasion to visit this camp at night.

“PT have been in night bombardments
by aviators, under the fire of machine
guns, and under fire of the long range
yuns—all a number of times. 1 wonder
if this is the popular conception of Y.
M. C. A. work, among our — folks at
home? However, a kind Providence has
protected me so far, and [ hope [| may
long be permitted to serve the men of
France, who are fighting for us.

“This morning | was awakened by
heavy artillery on my right. Not five
seconds has it ceased during the day,
and up to this hour—i1 p. m—it is
illuminating the heavens, rattling every-
thing that is loose about my room, and
making night hideous. [ doubt if there
is much sleeping for me tonight.

“Last week | saw American troops
for the first time ‘in France—saw them
by the tens of thousands. ‘They looked
fine to me, and | am sure they will do
their part.

“Give my regards to all my friends.

“Cordially yours,
“Pros W. Lincee,

“Permanent address: Paris: Rue La-

fayette 13.”

FRESH-SOPH MAGAZINE OUT.

The Fresh-Soph number of the Da-
vidson College Magazine has at last
come from the press, and as a whole it
proves the ability of these two classes in
literary work. Many new names occur
in the list of those contributing poctry.
‘These men are to be commended for
their entrance into this field, which is
beyond doubt, the highest form of liter-
ary composition.

The material for the last number is
now being collected, and will go to press
about May 1. There is still room for
a few more good selections, so those who
are gifted along this line should come
forward and do their best for this the
last issue of the year. There will be a
special collection of student poetry
Every effort will be made to make this
the best number of the year.

SIGMA UPSILON INITIATES.

The following men have recently been
initiated into the Blue Pencil Chapter
of Sigma Upsilon: D. M. Chalmers,
E. Flinn, J. J. Love, Wm. Love, J. W.
McAlister and E. A. Woods.

FACULTY AND STUDENT

COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS], #

Dr. W. J. Martin will be one of the
speakers at the Union ‘Theological Semi-
nary commencement.

Prof. A. Currie’ will deliver the com-
mencement address at Marion City
Schools on May 15.

Dr. J. Mpore McConnell will deliver
the commencement address at Mitchell
College on May 14, and on May 15 will
address the ‘I'rained Nurses’ graduating
class of Chester Sanatorium.

W. C. Cumming, '18, will deliver the
literary address, and R. E. McClure,
"49, will address the Y. M. C. A, at
the Westminster School commencement.
May 12-14.

WILDCATS ARE SECOND

(Continued from page 1)
Crouch, Davidson, second; Rae, ‘Vech.
third. ‘Time, :53 1-5.

Mile Run—Brand, Davidson, won;

McCleskey, “Pech, second; — Parker.
‘Tech, third. “ime, 4:§0.
Discus — Gray, Davidson, = won;

Champion, ‘lech, second; Rodgers, Se-
wanee, third. Distance, 110 feet.

Broad  Jump—Holst, ‘Tech, won;
Hammond, Sewanee, second: McRae.
‘Tech, third: Distance, 20.5 feet.

DAVIDSON WINS TTS
SECOND DEBATE

(Continued from page 1)

would conform with our existing Gov-
ernment, and the fear of a polftical ma-
chine being recruited from among. the
railway employees was shown to — be
groundless. Men are efficient for two
reasons, it was asserted, to hold their
jobs, and from a feeling of responsibility
to the stockholders. Under Govern-
ment ownership both of these reasons
would have weight, especially the sec:
ond reason, when in place of four thou-
sand stockholders they would be respon
sible to one hundred million. Et was
granted that the Government would lose
twenty five million dollars thru general
business inefficiency and then to be lib
eral this estimate was doubled. Tt was
estimated on good authority that some
forty million dollars would be saved on
salaries, standardization of equipment.
etc., and then that as the Government
can borrow money ata smaller rate of
interest, the saving of one per cent in-
terest on all railroad bonds alone would
amount to ninety million dollars. “Thus
a saving of one hundred and thirty mil-
lion dollars would be effected. and Bel-
lingrath brought down the house by in
forming his opponents that the Govern-
ment could cover that fifty million dol-
lar deficit and still have enough to give
them eighty million dollars as pocket
change.

Mr. Ovens. before announcing the de-
cision of the judges, gave a cordial in-
vitation to all to attend the giant Pa-
triotic Music Festival to be held in
Charlotte the last night of April. He
very ably kept the audience and debaters
in suspense as to the result until the last
moment, when he awarded the decision
to Davidson. Pandemonium broke loose
and cheers were quickly given for Roan-
oke and Davidson, individually and col-
dectively.

The debate was late in starting owing
to the failure of two judges to arrive,
and at the last moment a third judge
had to be selected from the audience to
allow the debate to start. This delay
was regrettable but unavoidable and the
debate which followed proved to be well
worth the few extra minutes spent in
waiting and discussing the cause of the
trouble. Davidson has just cause to be
proud of her second Intercollegiate De-
bating Team. composed of R. W. Cousar
and G. C. Bellingrath, who so well up-
held all her former forensic reputations.

hele Beta aa i ltt oe

|The Tate-Brown Company

11 South Tryon Street =: Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and
Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats,
Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim
and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

| TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

CLM enn LM MD cM
Grom ten tp ae spencers:

BUIGTLSTECRSTUITERET CCE GR

Johnston-Belk Company

DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St. - - - - Statesville, N. C.

When yougvant the best values call at the store that sells
for CASH and for LESS. We carry a big line of Clothing,
Shoes, Hats and‘Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES 17

o— thames meen teers nomen

2 - Pao en Ot maep Peps a

American Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING

Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee

Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,C0O

RUTLEDGE
NORTON

Up-to-Date Barbers

<eweowomwns - _

Seocnwccecoccsd

We carry a complete line of

Men’s and Boys’ Clothing

Made in the best makes at prices to suit all.

We invite you to inspect the famous KUPPENHEIM-
|} ER CLOTHES, known the world over.

Pay cash and
save money. New showing of Stetson Hats, Manhattan

Taaoerweanonaees: =:

Shirts, and Interwoven Hose.

V. Wallace & Sons

31-33 West Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury and Greensboro F
