TEDAVL.

Vol. Vi.

Lieut. R.G. Dennard
Commands S. A. T. C.

a
Five Arey Ofticera Bere to Direct

Davideon’s Student Soldiers.

nel

As Davidaon Cullepe enters tite a ew
ova of her Ute thin dal whe fects that she
fe capoctally fovewnate: i haviiy beet
Hlouts RG Dennned aedaned ty her ts
the Ss ALT. Cy commemdant, Edentonant
Dennard w& an attloer of wide tert
and expoetenee and le alrendy ante
Wivweoly well led by every ria tt the
CH,

He te orlglnally from Atlanta, Gin
andl wien atudent nt Georgia Pech, He
cnrlintert thawe wed a half yenra age fy the
National Cid, CUTAN Infantey, but wie
later transferred to the aand Vivtantey,
AVith hie eomient he wre ordered ty te
Mertens border ty the (all uf "10, and
from then andl the tallowlag amet
tank poet de the campadaen of that region,

Lientenane Dennard te the whiner uf
Ave tedala, une fie nh shootin and
ane fut bel the beat delidart avn (ty nie
vealivent. About a yene tuto te wet bie
wormatanton, aad ativce then tt indaht: be
{interesting ty aute, he tae beet tran
ferred to stations anywhere from Morlda
to Annpen, New Menton Antonie theae
were ane with the gaye logiment, Ma:
elie Ghinmera, al one at the Ai &M,
Calloge of Haltahawnee, thi, where for
tee and a half months he served us pers
sonnel nfleer ane adjutnat,

Alding -Idleutenant Dennard are four
eecond Heutenantar  Tleut, Chas ML.
‘ander, from U, of Gait Vet, Alex,
NH, MeCormick, from N.C. 8.7 Lleut,
Harry GC. Doveraplke, fram Pont, State
nnd Tdeut. Pater G, Dwyer, front Syras
cust,

he people of Davidson are glad to
welcome there officers tu thelr inidet and
OO ...)

REID CRANFORD.

Reid Cranford, ex-'19, of the Mase
Corps, was severely wounded in action
in France, July 19, a telegram received
by his pnrents, Postmaster and Mrs, W.
M. Cranford, of Davidson, stated.

Cranford attended Davidson College
for two years, and was popular with al.
When he enlisted in the Marines he wns
working for the American Trust Com-
pany. Since thé first notice of his serious
condition he has not been heard from,
but all hope that news of his recovery
will arrive any time.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 2, 1918.

x- Freshman Reception

a@e 4
=
get )

LINUT, FRRASLY R, NROWN,

Lieut, Pressly 8, Brown, ‘07, of the
Medical Corps, waa the first officer from
Mecklenburg County to give his life for
the Allied. cause in france, He was 34
years of age, having been born in Sharon
‘Yownship, this county, in 1884. He is 9
son of Mrs. J. G. Brown, of Sharon.
His wife, who was Miss Donnie Cobb, is

they are assured of the wholchearted aup-
port and respect of every soldier-student
at Davidson College.

LECTURES PREPARE _ .
STUDENTS FOR SOLDIERS

When Davidson opened her fall term
on September 18, to shortly become an
Army post, she had not been notified by
the Government what courses would he
pursued by the S, A. T. C. students
which are in training here. In pur-
suance of her new program to effectually
prepare men for leadership in the army,
the college arranged for the ten days
prior to October 1 a series of lectures
by members of the faculty on useful
subjects.

Dr. McConnell has given in his sev-
eral lectures an account of the strategy
and battles of the grent war, Lieutenant
Dennard made several talks on military
subjects, Professor Currie has spoken
several time on “Law,” sketching the
various branches of Jaw, and showing to

now living in Morganton,

Lieutenant Brown practiced medicine
two years at Jackson Springs, and later
at Grahum, after attending Davidson
College, He entered the service laat De-
cember and sailed from Camp Merritt,
N. J., where he had been stationed,
about January 1 for France. .

portrayed jn English and American pa-
triotic literature, and emphasizing par-
ticularly the courage displayed by youth.
Dr. Harding gave in two lectures the
modern value of Homer's “Iliad” and
“Odessey.” Dr, Sentelle brought out in
a lecture a few points on the psychology

of “How to Study.” And, since French
is now invaluable to the soldier who is to
zo across, several periods were given to
Professor Garnand for lectures on “Con
versational French.”

PREACHERS REORGANIZE.

There was no regular program at the
Ministerial Band meeting Sunday even-
ing. The hour was given over to the
reorganization of the band, the fall term
officers being elected and matters con-
cerning the mectings discussed.

The following officers were elected:
President, A. R. Craig; Vice-President,
D. M. Chalmers (elected last spring) ;
Secretary, L. G. Calhoun. ;

The Band will hold its meeting im-

some extent the value of its knowledge|‘mediately following supper on Sunday

to those who are to enter the service.
Professor Fulten has given several lec-

evenings. All men who hope some day
to enter the ministry are urged to attend

tures on “The Heroism of War" as it is} these meetings.

No. 1

Y. MC. A.

Se mma’

New Men Are Welcomed and laiti-
ated luto the Davidson Spirit.

"The anaual Yo MLC. A. reception for
the Ereshinens was held last “Thursday
aight despite the unusual condition ex-
iting: at this time, It is the purpose of
thik petting together to reawaken the
“pep” of the ald men and create college
spirit in the new men, A rally was held
in Shearer Hall, at which time several
short talks were made in regard to the
different phases of college life. ‘The
nceting opened with some college yells,
led by D. ML, Chalmers, '20, after which
Conch Fetver gave an outline of the pros-
pects of athletics at Davidson for the
coming yenr, He impressed upon all
present the fact that a Davidson team
played fair and above board at all times.
He made it very plain that defeat was
no disgrace, but that underhand playing
war,

Next, the work of the College Y. M.
C, Ac was outlined for the benefit of the
new students so thar they might: under-
atand the nature of the work being done
by this organization, All new men were
urged to attend the Sunday Bible classes
and regular meetings of the “Y." He
also made the announcement that a Tut
would probably be established. by the
Army “¥" later on.

8. ‘T. McCloy spoke upon the im-
portance of the literary societies and ex-
‘ended an invitation to both ald and new
men to join one of the societies, FE. A,
Woods, '19, spoke on the work of The
Davidsonian, and wreed all the new men
to endeavor to make the Reporters’ Staff.

The last spenker of the evening was
Dr, H. B. Arbuckle, who gave the invi-
tation to the new men to come to see him
or any other member of the faculty about
any personal problems they might have.
He told the Freshmen that he knew the
Sophomore class was a fine bunch of fel-
lows who would take “a fatherly interest
in them.”

Alt those present then adjourned to
the gymnnsium, where refreshments
were served and all enjoyed an informal
hour together, meeting some of the fnc-
ulty and their wives and other towns-
people,

DAVIDSON ALUMNI
PATRONIZE A. U. U.

The American University Union, in
Paris, London and Rome, has been well
patronized this past year by Davidson
men. Registrations to June 28, 1918,
were as follows:

and Lt. W. ‘T. Bitzer, '14, 320 F. A.
(N, A.), A. P.O. 711, ALE. PC. C.
Davis, '14, Bat. F., sa Art., C. A. C.,
A. EF. Fy; and Lt. C. F. Harris, Chief
Ordnance Officer, Air Service, A. E. F.;
J. N. Hillhouse, '14, Photographic Sec-
tion, Signal Corps, A. P. O. 702, A. E.
F.; 1st Le. E. L. Hughes, 118th Inf,, A.
TE. F.; R. W. Miles, ‘11, ¥. M. C, A,
12 rue d’Aguesseau, Paris: rst Lt. J. S.
Moore, Co. B., sth N. G, Bn., A. E. F.;
ust. Lt, L. A. Mullen, '16, A. §. S. R.
C,, A. P. O. 724, A. FE. F.; T. S, Reid,
‘ho, Section 513 U.S, A. A. S., A. E.
F.; Sgt. R. B. Walker, ex-’18, Section
siZ3 U.S.A AS. AEF,

FELLOWS --- Patronize Our ADVERTISERS --- They Make THE DAVIDSONIAN Possible
