THEDA VI’

}

SONIAN

Vol. VI.

“Y” Recreation Room
Is Very Popular

Movie Machine Expected Soon. Screen
Is Ready.

At present the room on the right, in
the new Gymnasium is being used as the
“Y" recreation room. In this room Mr.
Moore has placed a number of yames
popular magazines and a victrola ma*
chine. There is also a table with writ-
ing material in this room which is at the
disposal Gf all the men in the unit. “Phe
small room adjoining this is being used
as a storcroom for athletic goods, ‘They
consist of basketballs, volleyballs, indoor
baseballs, etc.. and can be procured at
any time during the day,

_ Within the next few days Mr. Moore
will convert the recreation room into a
writing room, exclusively, and use the
large reom on the left of the hall, for
entertainment. He is expecting a piano,
also a number of chairs, from Atlanta.

Another phase of the “Y" program
which is of great interest to all the fel-
lows is the series of moving — picture
shows which will begin very soon.

The machine has been ‘shipped, but
owing to the congestion of all railroads,
it probably will be the last of the week
before all the apparatus arrives. “he
screen is ready, however, and benches
are being made, here on the campus.
They will fill the main floor of the gym.
and before many days the regular pro-
gram will be carried out cach week
which will consist of approximately two
features,

The Y. M. C.-A, services and lectures
of all description awill be held in this
auditorium when the piano comes and
all the benches have been made. Until
that time the services will be held in the
assembly room of Shearer Hall.

The “Y" has been a great pleasure
and stimulus to the men during the open-
ing days and everyone realizes that he is
fortunate in being able to enjoy — the
various phases of the “Y” wark, and to
come in contact with such a strong char-
acter as our secretary, Mr, Moore, who
is already well liked by every man on the
campus,

GLEE CLUB CONCERT WILL
BE GIVEN SATURDAY NIGHT

The Glee Club has been holding regu-
lar practice, and is getting in good shape.
Regular practices are heing held and
some good material has been discovered
in the Freshman class, and prospects are
much brighter than they were a few
weeks ago.

Several trips are being planned and it
will be worth while if every man who
can carry a tune in a basket to come out
and try for a place on the club.

A concert will be given in Shearer
Hall Saturday night at 8 o'clock. Sev-
eral new and original stunts will be
pulled off. and it will be worth every
man’s money to attend. It will help
make the club a success. Admission, 35
cents.

Lieutenant Candler was confined to
his room for a few days last week with
a slight attack of influenza.

Co. “C” Takes Snappy
Game From Co. “B”

Game Exciting Until Finish. Score
11 to 12.

The 8. A. T. C. and. student bods
were on last Saturday night treated with
two of the best basketball games of the
season. The outburst of vocal adjuration
and “pep” was not quite so marked as it
was in the games a week ago. but still
each) company made their presence
known and stood loyally behind their re
spective teams.

In the first contest Company C, con-
trary to expectations, defeated Company
B by the score of 12 to tt in a snappy
and hard fought game. Altho Conpainy
C was the lighter and more inexspert-
enced team, her team more than. offset
this difference by its splendid defeasive
game. Company B drew first blood
when Roberts, their star forward, caged
a beautiful field goal. From ther on it
was anybody's game right up unt’) the
last minute of plav. Chalmers. for Com-
pany C. was in the frav at all times.
and it was perhaps due to his snlendil
guarding that enabled his team to emerge
victorious. Ormand, playing weit fer
ward, plaved a good game and led ty
team in scoring, For Compony B tsb
erts plaved his usual good game and was
the prime factor in the totaling ef points
for his team. “ Billy’! Crouch, at center,
also showed up well. ,

CoB. * Position. Ca C,
Woods (1) .. .. 2... Breitenhirt (2)
Left forward ;

.. As. Ormand (3)
Right forward

Roberts (3) .. .. .. 2. 2+ Johnson

Center ,

Crouch (1) 2... 0.0.

Left guard

Cornelson

.. Sprunt
White vow ee ee ee Chalmers
Right guard
Substitutions: Co. B: MecKeithen;
Co. C: Brice and Cochran: foul goals:
Roerts. 15 Ormond, 2.

CO. A VERSUS CO, Db.

‘The second contest was between Com-
pany A and Company D and was also
full of interest and enthusiasm, as both
teams were out for revenge. “They had
met om two former occasions and each
team had won and lost a game. Both
teams were confident, but the Company
A men, with four straight victories tuck-
ed safely behind them. were not to be
denied. Altho Company D fought a
good, hard game, their best efforts could
not stop the “leaders” in their drive to
victory. The winners during the first
half showed a superiority in every branch
of the game, their defensive work being
especially good. During this period the
“Boy Scouts” could not negotiate a sin-
gle goal. and it looked like they had no
more chance of winning than the. famous
celluloid dog had of catching the weil
konwn asbestos cat in a chase thru pur-
patory.

But in the second half Company D
showed a complete reversal of form and
made a desperate attempt at a come-
back, outplaying their opponents. The
goal shooting and floor work of Daven-
port kept pace with. them. however.
Craig and Ormand played strong games
at forward. For the Company D ag-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 6, 1918.

No. 6

“Flu” Situation In Town (Rifles Were Issued

Continues to Improve

Epidemic Has Run Its Course. Mills

Resume Work.

That the influenza epidemic in’ the
town has receded is evidenced in’ the

fact that no new cases have been report
ed the past week. OF the few victims

at present there are only two which have;

developed into pneunionia as a result,
neither of these bemy very serious, “Vhe
crisis having been passed. without any
serious result, the outlook is se bright
that in a week, it is predicted, there will
not be a single case.

In the factory districts the situation ts
so much improved that the quarantine
has been lifted and the factories are rin
ning as smoothly as before, except: being
slightly handicapped awing to the few
convalescent employes. While the school
has not been re-opened as yet, it-is most
likely it will be in a day or two,

Also with the negroes is the danger
lessening, there being practically no cases
with them at the present time, altho at
the outset -of the epidemic, due to their
ignorance of modern sanitation -and care
of the hady, the disease was most prev-
alent in their section, And among these,
our antitheses in color, are several who
are very much opposed to being: icone
clastic. resorted to such methods as shak
ing a little sulphur into their shoes and
other ume proceedings at the suspi
cions of a cold, in the hope that the dis-
case could be avoided by such beliefs.

While the situation shows such a
marked tmprovement: and the epidemic
has almost run. its course, tt would, be
mast unwise to grow. tax in the care and
comfort of the hody while there is even
the faintest suspician of the disease,

Profound appreciation and all due
thankfulness should be accorded those
who have, at their own personal risk of
contagion, watched over and nursed the
victims and have cated for then with
deft acumen and unerring: skill.

Miss Kloise Martin spent | Sunday
with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. J.
Martin.

S. C. Harris. 18. spent a few hours
on'the Hill Sunday,

gregation Denny, playing at forward,
did the best work, Vhe guarding of
Price was also of high standard. Alex-
ander made the most spectacular shot at
the game when he made a backhand
throw on a dead run. After “Duke"
Harwell had shot his first and last goal
and the whistle had blown it was found
that the final count showed Company A
leading 19 to 13.

Co. A, Position. Co. dD.
A. P. Ormand .. Alexander
Left forward
ALR. Craig... 6. 0... .. Harwell
Right forward
Davenport .. Loe . Denny
Center
Sowell .. re .. Scott
Left forward
Finley rn Price
Right Guard

Substitutes: Co. A: Blue and Mon-
teat,

Friday Afternoon

Co. “D’” Will Not Get Them Yet.
Only 240 Received.

Friday noon excitement ran high when
Lieutenant Dennard announced — that
the rifles had come at last. He had net
seen them, and could not pive any deti-
nite details about them. but advised all
to suppl themselves with gasoline, three
in-one oil, old teuth brushes, old) raps,
and be aréived in old clothes, As soon
as dinner was over, there was amad run
tar the stores to pet the gil “hefore the
other fellow.” “Phe stores were flooded,
and every bottle oof three insone was
bought. Men came back lugging biz
hotiles of getsoline.  “Vooth brushes were
houghe at 25 and go vents apiece to be
later dipped in the oil,

There were only 240 rifles in all, so
Company D will have to go without, for
awhile at feast. However, the rifles
heing given Gut, the “Boy Scouts” had
the Lagh, Such a mistire oof guns,
grease and: bavonets has never before
been seen, “Phe villes were packed in
cosmic oil, and cosmic,oil, and more cos-
mic dil, ALL appreciated that fact, and.
agree that the packers did a“ pood” jab,
From 4 until 6, Companies AJ Band C
could be seen over the campus, “squirt:
ing” gasoline, plying their rags and tooth
brushes vigorously to pet off that. “in-
fernal” grease (we. mean cosmic oil),
and then shining: the mmetal up with the
three-in-one otf By that tine al fairly
decent ritle wais gotten out from the stick
of cosmic oil. ft proved to be a Russian
rifle: a dittle tall for the short end of the
campantes, but will suit our purpose
fully. “Phe Russian rifle is somewhat on
the order of the Springfield,

Work on the rifles continued up until
taps, and all were ready for inspection
Saturday morning. “Che companies pre-
sented & martial appearance, tho the
avay some of the men handled their pieces
was not exactly as the 1 DL. Ro pre-
scribes, .

The uniforms for the 8. ALT. C. have
heen ordered, but. so far, that is all, No
one knews when they will get here.
Thru the promptness of Mr. Jackson,
however, Company D is fully equipped.
Evervthing is regular army prescribed
stuff, the suits being really officers’ uni-

‘forms, discarded because of being a shade

too light. The “Boy Scouts” are satis-
fied with theni, tho.

CHURCH SERVICES RESUMED.

Due te the influenza epidemic — the
Chaurch has had its doors closed for some
time. Last Sunday morning, however,
the ringing of the bell announced that
once more the church doors were to be
opened and services resumed.

The bugle sounded immediately after
the bell had rung and the companies
were assembled and marched to the
church.

Dr. Richards chose his text from the
13th verse of the ath chapter of Philip-
pians: “T.can do all things = through
Christ which strengtheneth me.” In his
masterful way he depicted the courage
possessed by true Christians and — the
strength by which ‘they may withstand
hardships and sufferings.
