4

The DAVIDSONIAN, May 8, 1918

DAVIDSON WINS FROM
WOFFORD BY SCORE 4 TO 2

Captain Hengeveld, pitching his last
game of college baseball, twirled a beau-
tiful game against Wofford ‘Tuesday.
Up to the ninth only two hits, one of the
doubtful variety, were made off the big
“Wildcat” twirler. In the ninth, how-
ever, he eased up slightly and three hits
coupled with a wild throw by Sutton,
netted the visitors two runs.

The game started with a rush, when
Henry Spann, first man up, drove
Purdy’s second offering to deep left- cen-
ter for a home run. However, Purdy
tightened up and altho he was hit freely,
good fielding on the part of the Wof-
ford team kept down the score. David-
son scored again in the fourth. Henge-
veld singled, was sacrificed to second by
Sutton’s neat bunt and scored on Rich-
ards’ smashing single to right. David-
son’s third marker was the result of
singles by Sutton and Burns, in the sixth.
_In the seventh, “Yank” Boswell secured
his second hit ‘of the day and scored on
Spann's single.

The fielding of the Davidson team
was unusually fast. Two brilliant
double-plays broke up promising Wof-
ford rallies, The fielding of “Yank”
Boswell at short was without an error
and his batting was hard and timely.
Ratchford also put up a pretty fielding
game. Hengeveld, Spann and Boswell
featured in the hitting department.

For Wofford, Rivers caught a pretty
game and drove out a nice hit. Vaughan
played stellar ball at first. The score:

DAVIDSON. AB R H 0 A E
Spann,cf...... 4 1 2 1:0 0
King, 2b... .. .. 3 0 O 1 2 0
Miley, rf .. . 4001 00
Hengeveld, p.... 3 t 2 3 6 0
Sutton, tb .. ... 21 613 °979~8
Richards, If .. .. 4 0 ! 0 0 O
Burns, c .. 301600
Ratchford, 2b. 30003 0
Boswell, ss... 3 1224 0

Totals ........ 29 4 9 27 22 1!
MVOFFORD. AB R H POA E
Outz, If .. 4010000
Bozeman, 2b.... 4 0 0 2 4 0
Vaughan, 1b.... 4 1 112 2 «1
Wright, rf .. ... 3 1 ' 1 1:0
Carmichael, cf .. 4 9 0 1-1 0
Stewart, 3b... .. 4 0 1 1 1:0
Bailey, ss ..... 200000
Rivers, c 401 6000
Purdy, p 30005 0

Totals’.... 32 2 § 2414 1

Score by innings: R. H. E.
Wofford ......000 000 002—2 § 1
Davidson ..... 100 101 11x—-4 9 1

Summary—Two-base hits: Henge-

veld, Vaughan; home run: Spann; sacri-
fice hits: King, Sutton; stolen bases:
Burns, Boswell, Bailey; hit by pitcher:
by Purdy (Sutton) ; bases on balls: off
Hengeveld 4, off Purdy 2; struck out:
by Hengeveld 5, by Purdy 2; double
plays: Hengeveld to Sutton (2); um-
pires: Saunders and Bedient.

REVIEW OF 1917-18 AHTLETICS.

With the State track meet at Chapel
Hill, which the Davidson “Speed Ar-
tists” won rather easily, Davidson closed
her athletic calendar for the present
year.

In every branch of athletics, David-
son has more than held her own this
year. Despite the fact that so many of
our men failed to return, Coach Fetzer,
aided by the few hard-working Varsity
men who were left, has turned out teams
that have demanded attention thruout
eastern as well as southern athletic cir-
cles.

FOOTBALL.

The football season was highly satis-
factory to all. The Wildcats won six
out of ten games, and in the four defeats
they suffered, the opponents had to give

Ske OYE:
RG a ‘i oy

ane
o Bit I

BASEBALL TEAM—1918.

First row: A. L. Currie. Second row:
King. Third row: P. A. Sutton, J. E.
Clarke, J. R. Boswell. Fourth row: J.

H. M. Spann, A. C. Burns, G. M.
Cassell, F. W. Hengeveld, R. R.
B. Daffin, manager, J. H. Sample, W.

B. Sullivan, W. H. B. Sullivan, W. H. Miley. A. D. NlcArm, B. By Rarchior’s 2 Sens A. D. McArn, E. E. Ratchford, J. G. Richards.

all they had to win. ‘The Washington
Star says in regard to the Davidson-
Navy game, which was our first en-
counter: “Coach Dobie’s big, powerful
linemen’ and fast, aggressive backs failed
to measure up to our expectations when
they hit up against that scrappy bunch
from North Carolina.” True the Navy
won; but it was no walkover.

The A. & E. game was the big disap-
pointment of the year. The official score
was given out as 7-3 against us BUT—
well, the Jess said about the game, the
better. We'll take it as our part and
say nothing.

In a fight that was a typical * ‘light-
weight” versus “heavyweight” battle,
Georgia Tech’s big team was held to a
32-10 score~ That Tech was given a
sure enough scare, is no dream. At the
end of the first half, Heisman’s Golden
Tornado was leading by the small mar-
gin of three points. Superior weight
finally told on our lighter line, however,
and Tech scored 24 points in the last
half. They beat- our hunch by their

“hammer and tongs” drive, but they
couldn't break our spirit, and David-
son's battered line scrapped them for
every inch. Grey, King and Flowers
were hailed as all-Southern material be-
cause of their playing in this game.

The V. P. I. game was lost by a costly
fumble in the last two minutes of play.
Up to this time Davidson was leading
6-7.

Beginning with the V. M. lL. game,
the Presbyterians rolled up six straight
wins. V. M. L, Furman, Auburn,
Wake Forest, Wofford and Clemson
were all met and beaten by the “Wild-
cats.” The Auburn team was counted as
Georgia Tech’s chief contender for the
championship. They looked big enough,
and with Ducate, declared by some as
the South's greatest football player, they
seemed dangerous. The Presbyterians,
however, dazed the heavy Plainsmen
with their flying end runs and forward
passes to the extent of 21-7.

It would be a hard matter to choose
any particular stars from the team.
Every man gave all he had to the team,
and that is all anyone could do. King,
Flowers and Grey are all-Southern
choices, which fact describes their ability
sufficiently. Shaw and Elliot at tackles
are two of the best tackles in these parts.
McMaster and Richardson held up their
side of the line and were splendid run-
ning mates for Grey and King. Billy
Crouch, playing his first year with the
Varsity, was a peerless center. The
hackfield was beautifully balanced.
Flowers, George Crouch and McAlister
were there on end runs and receiving

forward passes, while Il they had to win. The Washington] forward passes, while “Buck” Burns Burns’
.ine smashing was a sight worth taking
a journey to see. Henry Spann’s ability
io general the team as well as his for-
ward passing stamped him as one of the
best quarterbacks in the South.

Shaw, King, Grey, Richardson and
George Crouch are lost by graduation.
We are losing some of our best. It will
he a loss—a heavy loss—but they have] h
given us their best efforts for the four
vcars they have been with us, and we ap-
preciate this fact. New stars will de-
velop as these oid ones drop out, and
these men are taking their places in Da-
vidson’s Hall of Fame along with
Klutz, Booe, Richardson and Graham.
The team that beat Auburn and played
the Navy and Tech to a standstill will
not be forgotten in a season.

ing the long period of time that elapsed
between the Virginia and Carolina trips,
was with Guilford in the new Davidson
zim. ‘The game, which was unusually
rough, was won easily by the “Wildcats”
by a 37-24 score.

With a team that was in poor condi-
tion, due to injuries and a long period of
idleness, the “Wildcats” made their
Carolina trip. In a slow and uninterest-
ing game, Guilford won over them by a
score of 22-16. Then a flash of early
season form revived, and Elon was de-
feated 29-23. In two games character-
ized by fast playing and the hard luck
of the Davidson team, Carolina and
Trinity beat us by the scores of 28-22
and 30-24 respectively.

The final game was played on the
home floor with Clemson. The Clemson
bunch were completely outclassed and
never threatened to take the lead. The
final score was 37 to 22 in Davidson’s
favor.

Hengeveld and King have. played
their last games. They have starred
every year they have played on the team,
and are two of the best basketball play-
ers that have ever worn the Red and
Blacy jerseys. Hengeveld retires with a
“D” and three stars, and King with a
“D” and two stars.

The position of left forward and run-
ning mate of George King was divided
between Flowers, W. M. Hall and
Davenport. “Dutch,” of course, played
his old center position thruout the year.
McAlister and McAskill took care of
the guard positions. McAlister, who
starred in every game by his bang-up
guarding as well as his fast floor work,

has been chosen to captain the team next
year. With three “D” men and several
“DC” men to build from, the “Wild-
cats” should produce a splendid team
next season.

Summary of past basketball season:

33—Davidson at Lexington vs. Wash- _
ington and Lee—20, ;

12—Davidson at Roanoke vs. V. M.
I.—29.

SUMMARY OF THE SEASON. 43—Davidson at Salem vs. Roanoke
Davidson... ... 6 Navy ..... 27/17.
Davidson. ..... 3 A&E. 7) 49—Davidson at Blacksburg vs. V.
Davidson. ..... 10 Ga. Tech.. 32| P. I.—z2o.
Davidson...... 9 VL PLL. 13} 55—Davidson at Winston vs. Win-
Davidson. ..... 23 *V. Mz I.. 7| ston “Y"—33.
Davidson. ..... 28 Furman . 7| 37-——-Davidson at Davidson vs. Guil-
Davidson...... 21 Auburn... - 7| ford—2q.
Davidson...... 73 W. Forest. 7| 16—Davidson at Guilford vs. Guil-
Davidson. ..... 62 Wofford .. oj} fard—22.
Davidson. ..... 21 Clemson . 9| 29—Davidson at Elon vs. Elon—23.
—_—— ——j| 22—Davidson at Chapel Hill vs. U.
Totals, D.C.... 254 Opponents. 116] N. C—28.
BASKETBALL 24-—Davidson at Durham vs. Trinity

When we returned only two Varsity
men, Davidson's chances in basketball
were conceded to be slim. Ex-Captain
Hengeveld and Captain King were the
men around whom it was necessary to
build a winning team. The fact that
three positions were to be filled is prob-
ably the secret of the winning team of
this year. None, with the exception of
King and Hengeveld, were sure of a po-
sition even up to the last games. Each
man had to fight hard to make his job.

As all preliminary games were can-
celled, the Presbyterians were forced to
start on their hardest trip, the trip thru
the Valley of Virginia, with an untried
team.

The Virginia trip resulted in victories
over Washington and Lee, V. P. L,
Roanoke College and Winston Y. M.
C. A. The only defeat was suffered at
the hands of V. M. I. on the tiny Y. M.
C. A. court in Roanoke. The “Wild-
cats” were unable to get in any of the
team work that won the other games
for them, because of the small court, and
Marshall’s and Leach’s long distance} v
shooting—which was almost comparable
to the German’s long range bombard-
ment of Paris. This was the feature for
V. ML I.

The only game that was* played dur-

—30.
Davidson, 320. Opponents, 246.
BASEBALL.

The past baseball season was lighter
than usual, due to cancellations and rain-
ed out games. Not a North Carolina
college was played except Lenoir. The
only games that were not cancelled
earlier in the season with North Caro-
lina colleges were A. & E. and Elon.
Both of these were rained out.

The first game, which was little more
than a practice affair, was with the team
of Company E, Seventh Infantry, Camp
Greene. This resulted in a defeat for
the Wildcats by a 7-1 score.

Then the Southern trip started with
Lenoir College on April 1. This game
was won rather handily by the score of
5-1. Clarke, making his debut, pitched
splendidly for Davidson. The Univer-
sity of South “Carolina was played on
the next two days. The “Gamecocks”
won the first 2-1 and the “Wildcats”
the second 5-3, Hengeveld and Currie
pitching. The University of Georgia
was next defeated easily, and the double-
header with Georgia Tech was divided.
An easy victory was won over Ogle-
thorpe. and Wofford beat the Presby-
terians in a poor exhibition, 8-1. The

(Continued on page 8)
