THEDAVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MAY 1, 1918.

Vol. V.

Students Organizing

a War Savings Unit,

Much Interest Manifest In War )Pitcher’s Battle is Terminated by

Savings Stamps

Dr. Raynall. pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church at. Statesville
delivered an interesting address to the
student body at the last period .on
Thursday, Dr. Ravnall was introdyiced
by Dr. Harding. who explained that
Dr. Ravnall was given his D.0. by Da-
vidson College. and ended with, a pun on
Dr. Raynall’s name.

‘Vhe main thought of Wr. Raynall’s
lecture was that this is a time ot actions.
not gt words.. His prtpese was tc ot
ganize a War Saving Laut at David
son College. Dr. Ravnall said thas, att-
er the war. those who will get the jobs
and the girls will be those with the brass
bultons: and it we who gre not in actua!
tighting want to “hold a hand. we piust
show ont receipts to: money loaned. to
the Government. Ile, urged the stu
dents to give up some ot their summer
lixuries and bay \War davings stamps
and to appoint theniselves comnittees 01

\Davidson Wins From

N. C..f battle between Hengeveld and Waring

Carolina in Eleventh

King’s Three-Bagger

Davidson won a hard- tought pitchers’

iwhen George King, star all-round ath-
Plete ot the Wialdeats, slapped a long
three-bagger to right field in the cleventh
and scored on Rohn wild heave over
third in an effort to head him off. The
game was full of thrills, and well play
ed. despite errors on the part of both
(i;amecocks and \Vildceats, which were
responsible tor most of the scoring.
Hengeveld. twirling tor the Preshy
terians. ‘had evervehing. and atter che
| second inning puched 10 innings with
{but sone hit being made ont him. He
opened badiv in the first, when Fvans
stuck a clean single to mght Geld te open
the inning. \Waring saertieed him to
<vcond, Clarke grounded out Henge
veld to Sutton. and ‘Seaborn’s double
land Bealls single scored Carolina's onh
fruns. Another single was made by
(Parker in the second inning. when

one to urge others to buy the stamps and { Hlengeveld tailed te cover lirst on anin

Bonds.

‘Fhe Commitee at the War Savmeps
Lnit ot Davidson College was organ
ized as follows: f. 1. Fowle, chairinan:
HV. Lally and W. f. Clark. members
in Watts: Ml. A. Siske and |G. Lally.
members in Georgia. b.. Vi. Carre aad
J. Ro Woods, menibers in Kumple: J.
WV. McAlister and J. A. Vhanies. col
lectors in North wing Chambers; C. AV.
Worth and 1. VL. Uhomas, collectors in
Seuth-wing Chambers: Rob. MeClure.
member to interview the Faculty. ‘The
committee reportéd aver 230) subscrip
Uons the tirst night. and is anxtows to
secure & subsenptcn trom every student
in college.

A REAL SACRIFICE.

{Ut only mea and women would make
the sactitices to buy War Savings Stamps
that children make, our State would
soon go ‘over the top. We have been
informed that in a school in one of the
eastern counties the bovs sel! their
hinches to make tnoney to ouv stamps.
When one remembers that a boy has

been defined as an ‘appetite with pants |

on” he appreciates the real sacritice the
boy ts making.

“You clever guys,
Who think you're wise.
Young tellows and old toes.
Be loval folks.
Cut out the smokes.
Buy Stamps instead ot stogies.
\. ME. Rouse.

FICTION CONTEST CLOSES.

interest has heen shown this
year in the “Fiction Contest.” which
closed last Saturday night. Many and
varied have been the subjects for stories
handed in to the committee, so all Jook
forward with interest to the results. The
committee was very fortunate in secur-
ing Dr. W. T. Myvers. Professor of
English at Converse College. to act as
judge, and his decision should be handed
in within the next week.

Much

field tap. and Faans wade anoathei
single to right in the fitth, but the acces
stiry pinch blows. were not tortheoring
to advance the nen. and the big Ditch
man sas sate. Etengevcld struck aut
nine nen and added « duudle himsel.

Waring. tur the Ciamecocks, was hard,
to tind. but when the Wildcat huts were
varnered. they appeared in flocks. and
bunched with errors, xcwed up ihe game.
IQavadson tought hatd .to overcome ihe
inital lead of the wasitors. but ut was
not until the third that a tun was made.
Burns fouled out to Seabotrn to open
the inning. Ratehtord. plaving his tirst
\-arsity game drove a sharp stagle to
right and a moment Iater stole second
-tanding. Boswell few out to Lvans.
Ratchtord scored when Clarke bungled
Spann s grounder to short. Spann stole
second, but wa. tegged out when he
overran the sack. Davidson's second
mirker came in the fiith.  Atter Sutton
had struck out. Richards, another
Varsity ivan, doubled to deep right cen
ter, Burns struck out. Ratchtord was
sate when Parker dropped the ball at
first, Richards scoring. but Seaborn
threw out Ratchford stealing. Spann
| opened the cleventh by grounding out.
Seahorn ta Parker. the catcher taking
his grounder in tront ot the plate. King.
who had gone hitless all day. picked out
la tast one and dropped deep alony the
right tield fine for a triple. and on the
r(lay in. Kohn presented the game to
the locals by heaving the bal! over
Evans head, to the tence, King scoring
| standing.

Both Hengeveld and Waring pitched
airtight ball. the big Dutchman having
a trifle the better of the argument after
the first trame. “Phe outstanding stars
for the visitors were Clarke. who despite
a couple of bad bobbles at short, accepted
some mighty hard chances cleanly. and
plaved a hard, scrappy game: Evans and
Seaborn were the leading hitters for
Carolina. Evans also accepting seven
chances faultlessly. For the Wildcats.
the leading luminaries were several new
men who were making their. first ap-

(Continued on page 6)

Hen

his alma mater tor several days — last
nweek,
Miss Bessie Chalmers was on the,

Seniors Win First

Place in Class Meet

Brand Scores Highest Number of
Points---Crouch is Second

Miss Dortha Gill, of Statesville, came
down for the game Saturday.

The Book Lovers’ Club met) Friday
atternoon with Mrs. Pb. Curric.
Professor Fulton read the paper ot the
attrrnoon on “Development i Russia.”

Miss Vinson, Alrs. Johoston, Mrs.
WOR. Grew. Miss Elizabeth Cres, Miss

Martha Miley. Miss Mary 9 Young,
Ales. J. We MacConacll Ali. and
Mes. V0 Carne, Abi. Stewart. Captain

lea and Protessur )yvereash attended
the musie testival in Clirrlotte Satwedin

Mes. FL. Sloop and children. at
Crossmore, spent the weck end with her
brether, lr. Viartin.

Mr. and Mrs. John [lil have gone
to Philadelphia for a uvo weeks’ visit to
ther seu, who has recenth been diratted
into the Natronal Arn

CAANIPUSESAIS.,

WoOP Rankin, Jr. was oa the [Hill
tor a tew hours-last Sunday.

I. Po Fhall, Cra. who has been at An
napolis stedving tor the Naval Acad
envy, has entered college t. await the
rests of his exaninations.

4. QO. Cobb, ‘12. of Winston Salen,
with Ro oOBL Crawtord; |r. and Forest
Wright, two prospective students from
the “Pwin City, visited the EEE ast
week,

Andrew Brown, 17. was a visitor at

Hill tora few hours Saturday:

AL 1. Edwards, ex-2t, has lef col
lege ta become a member of the Na
ional Army.

THR STUDENT CONFERENCE.

‘The Southern Student Conference at
Blue Ridge will open June 14 and con-
tinue for ten days. Et is hoped that [a
vidsun) wall be well represented at this
conterence, because it will probably be
the best in the history of Blue Ridge.
“Pwo thousand seven hundred and thirty
persons took the training at Blue Ridge
last year and every one was well pleased.

Among the forty leaders there this
summer will be Dr. O. F. Brown, of
Vanderbilt, University; Dr. . M. Po-
teat. of Furman University: Dr. H. H.
Horne. of the University of New York:
and Mr. Robert k. Speer. of New York
City.

_— eee

“Fanny” Hall says he is gomg to try
the plan of betting a girl he can kiss her
without touching her, as outlined in the
Magazine. But he says he'll only bet
“ewo-bits.” for it isn’t worth a dollar!

No. 29

News and Happenings
of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About
the Town People.

The annual field day exercises were
held on Sprant: Field fast | Mandity.
morning,  Crreat daterest in the events
wis imanitested by the entire’ student
body. cach class being represented in
practically every event. A total of forty
three men entered the mect and nay
hither-te unknown “stars” were discov:
cred. Vhe Senior class seored the high
est number of pornts, gu. thus winning
the meet,  Uhe Tuniors came next with
ds pants, the b-esh took third place,
scoring 42 potnts, and the Sophs brought
up the rear wath 10 points,

The only teesid broken was the shot
put. Grey broke lus former crecord of
38 feet by hurhne the 16 pound ball a
distance. at gy.o2 feet. Brand casily
captined first place ta che distance ruins
and also made the hiychest individual
score, which was 21 points, thus winning
the medal. Ci. S Crouch had the sec:
ond highest score with 18 points. “This
is the ts: time in’ daur years that
Crouch has, failed to make “the highest
COTO,

MecQueen, tor the Sophomores, — set
the pace in the high jump and pole vault.
taking first place in hoth events, “With
a few more bike hin the Sophomores
would have made a better showing.

Prizes were seenred by faculty men
bers and Davidsen firms for -the win-
ners of fist and second: places in cach
event, “The everts and the results were
as tullows:

too Yard Dash “Vhompson (Fresh J,
first: Crouch (Seniors), second; Grev
(Seniors), third. “Pime. 10 2-5 seconds,

80-yard Ron Brand (Juniors),
fest; Finley (Seniors), second; Knight
(Fresh), third. “Pime, 2, 10, 0-5.

High Junip—MeQueen (Soph), firsts.

Alexander (Juniors). second; Jones
Chuniors). third.  Ubeight, 5 feet, 4
inches.

220 Yard Dash—Crouch (Seniors).
first; Briee (lresh), second; — Finley

(Seniors), third. “Time, 24 4-5.
Mile Run Brand (Juniors), ‘first:
Knight (Fresh), second; Clark  (Se-

niors), third. ‘Fime, 5. 34. 35.

Broad Jump Murray (Fresh), first;
Alexander (Junior). second; Grey (Se
nior), third. Distance, 19.5 feet.

440-Yard Dash--Crouch (Seniors).
first: Brand (Juniors), second; Minlev
(Seniors), third, Vinie, 55. 3-5.

Discus—Cirey (Seniors), first; Fin
ley (Seniors), second; Beall) (i resh),
third. Distance, 114. 3 10 feet.

High = Turdles —Finley (Seniors).
first: McAskill (Juniors), second:
Brown (lresh), third. ‘Fime. 19 3-5.

‘Pwo-Mile Run—Brand (Juniors),
first; Koight (Fresh), second; Stone
(Juniors), third. “Vime, 12:16.

Low  Hurdles—Crouch (Seniors),
first; Brand (Juniors), second; Brown
(Fresh) third. ‘Vime, 28 1-5.

Shot Put—Grev (Seniors), — first:
Cox (Fresh), second: Romefelt: (Fresh)
third. Distance, 30.02 feet.

Pole Vault. — McQueen (Sophs),
first; Dodenhoff (Fresh), second; Tis-

(Continued on page 6)
