THEDAVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 24, 1918.

Davidson Wins Its Second Debate

Vol. V.

Wildeats Are Second
In Quadrar gle Meet

Georgia Tech Wins First Place
With Fifteen Men.

Georgia Tech won the the big quad-
rangular meet held in Atlanta last Sat-
urday. Davidson came in strong for
second place. doubling the score of Se-
wanee, which took third. © Davidson
showed up better than any of the other
teams. “in proportion to the number of
contestants. “Tech had fifteen’ men on
her team and Sewanee had nine, while
Davidson had only five and Mississippi
A. & M. had one. “Vech won first place
in seven events, five of which were taken
by Strupper, the individual star ot the
meet. Davidson took first place in’ five
events, and Mississippi got first place in
the pole vault. while Sewanee was found
lacking in first place hen. ‘Lech is con:
fident that she will triumph in the Bir-
mingham meet since she considers David-
son as her stfongest opponent of the
season.

‘The whole Davidson team showed up
well in the events which they entered.
Gray, proved that it takes something
more than talk to win the heavy weights,
and plucked the laurels from the alleged
Southern champion by taking first with
the discus and shot put. McQueen took
first place on the high jump in his ac-
customed way. <Tho Crouch was not
well at the time of the meet, and had to
contend with our strongest opponent, he
added four points to the score for the
Tigers. Brand and Finley had no
trouble in) shutting out the opponent:
in the distance runs. Brand took first
place in the mile, in-good time, whilc
Finley and Brand captured first and
second places in the half mile.

The events and the results were as
follows:

100-Yard Dash — Strupper, ‘Tech.
won: Rae, Tech, second; Hammond. Se-
wanee, third. Time. :10 2-5.

880-Yard Run—Finley,
won: Brand, Davidson, second;
ker, ‘Tech, third. ‘Time. 2:08.

High Jump—McQuceen, Davidson.
won: Pollard, ‘Tech; Blackwell, ‘Tech,
and Hammond. Sewanee, tied for -sec-
ond. Height, 5 feet 8 1-2 inches.

High Hurdles—Strupper, Tech, won;
Hammond, Sewanee, second: McClel-
lan, Tech. third. Time, 16 seconds.

220-Yard Dash — Strupper, Tech,
won; Holst. Tech. second ; Crouch, Da-
vidson, third. Time. 22 2-5.

Javelin Throw—McRae. Tech, won;
Hammond, Sewanee, second: Strupper,
Tech, third. Distance, 129 feet 4 inches.

Pole Vault—Worthington, Mississip-
pi, won; McRae, Tech, second; Estes.
Sewanee, and McQueen, Davidson, ‘tied
for third. Height, 10 feet 6 inches.
After winning at this mark, Worthing-
ton had the bar raised to 11 feet 2
inches. which he cleared handily.

Shot Put—Gray, Davidson, won;
Ellam. Sewanee, second; Hammond,
Sewanee. third. Distance, 37 fect 3
inches.

Low Hurdles—Strupper, Tech, won;
Holst, Tech, second; McClellan, Tech.
third. Time. 26.

440-Yard Dash—Battle, Tech, won;

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson,

Par-

“

By Defeating Roanoke College

Debating Team Wipes Out Defeat Administered by Roanoke Last Year
--Wins a Two to One Decision.

Phe second Intercollegiate Debate] He ended by showing how the Govern

held in Shearer Hall, Friday evening,}ment had made a success in other bust-
April 19, was won by Davidson from|ness enterprises such as the Panama
Rouanoke College. of Salem, Va. Prof.|Canal, the Post, Office, Panama Rail-
A. Currie presided over the debate, and | roads, and Federal Reserve Banks.
Mr. J. AJ McRae. Mr. David Ovens} Mr. Pflum, the last) speaker of the
and Rev. W. A. Jenkins — served
judges. In opening the exercises Pro-
fessor Currie welcomed the Roanoke de-
baters and wished the audience a pleasant
and profitable evening. Dr. M. E.
Sentelle pronounced the invocation. ‘Whe
judges’ decision was two for Davidson
and one for Roanoke.

The question debated was: “Resoly
ed, ‘Vhat the Federal Government
should permanently own and operate all
interstate railroads in) the United
States.” Davidson upheld the aflirma-
tive and Roanoke the negative. “The
Davidson speakers were R. W. Cousar
and G. C. Bellingrath, Speaking for
Roanoke were B.D. Painter and H. J.
Pthum,

R. W. Cousar opened the argument.
tHe showed that private ownership with
Government regulation has failed — be-
cause it is fundamentally wrong in
principle and it lacks uniformity. He
painted a gloomy picture for the rail-
roads under private ownership, and ar-
gued that there was no hope for the
future because of competition and anti
pooling laws, He stated that the rail-

as
policy politically to adopt | permanent
Government ownership,
number of railroad employees would
hold the balance of power and thus cre-
ate the temptation to curry favor with
them. “What business firm.” he cried,
“has over tive hundred men on its board
ot directors, but that is what we would
have under Government ownership with
Congress in’ direct: control of the rail-
roads?” In this vein he argued that: per
manent Government ownership would
he an unsound policy from a business
standpoint. Ia closing he showed vers
forcibly thar Government ownership had
tailed in other countries where tried, and
reached the conclusion that therefore it
would fail in the United States,

The rejoinders were spirited and to
the point. “Vhe negative atacked Gov-
ernment ownership as an untried ideal
theary and asserted that facts should be
considered. They quoted ex President
Taft. Mr. McAdoo and President Wil-
son himself as being apposed to perma
nent Government awnership. ‘The
affirmative attacked the argument that

roads were natural monopolies analog-[!" AS undemocratic, showing how it

ous to the circulatory system and argued (Continued an page 6)

that greater savings would be effeeted

under Gavernment manopolistic control, *
Mr. Painter in apening far the nega- EVENTS OF THE WEEK.

tive argued that permanent Government | - ‘

ownership and operation of interstate Thursday A pril 25.

raibvavs is dangerous in principle as ithe Afrernuon — Basehall: Davidson

would tend to make our Goverment! - vs. Elon (pending), Sprunt

autoer: tic and absolute and would — be Kield: game called 3230 p.m.

against all the democratic traditions of Nipht—Y. M. C. A. ‘Speaker,

our country. Our country has the most Norman fohnson, '15, from

miles of the finest tailroads in the world, L.T.S.

he declared. in shawing that our present], Friday, April 26. '

system of private awnership and epera- Afternoon Baseball: Elon. vs.

tion of the railroads bas been-and ts suc- Davidson (pending), States

cessful. “To substaniate this etatement ville, N.C.

further he showed by concrete instances Night—Fresh-Soph Declamation

that on the average freight and passenger Contest. Eumenean Society;

rates were cheaper. in the United States time, 8:00 o'clock. Lo

than in anv other country. He then ar- Saturday, April 27.

gued that our present system of Federal Afternoon— Baseball: University

regulation is able to cope with the rail-
way problem by. describing the powers of
the Interstate Commerce Commission
and showing that in at least two in-
stances it had over-ruled the decisions of
State regulation boards.

Closing for Davidson, Bellingrath ar-
gued that general efficiency could be
brought about under Government own-
ership by routing traffic with reference
solely to the needs. This would do away
with unnecessary passenger traffic, would
save freight cars and would tend to keep
an open track by eliminating competi-
tion with other railroads and with mer-
chant ships. He then very ably discussed
the financial conditions of the railroads,
showing that they were absolutely un-
able to obtain the capital to supply the
needed equipment, and that Government
ownership alone would supply this need.

of §. C. vs. Davidson, Sprunt
Field: game called 3:30.
Night—Societv; Important meet-
ing of the Book Lovers’ Club.
Sunday, April 28.
Morning—Sunday School and
Mission Study Class, 10 o'clock.
Night — Christian Fndeavor,
Ministerial, and Volunteer
Bands. Joint meeting address-
ed by Norman Johnson, '15.

‘ Monday, April 209. ,
~  Morning—RBattalion Dress Pa-
rade (competion for banner).

*  Afternoon—Field Day Exercises.

* Night—Junior-Senior Debate.

‘ | Tuesday, April x0.

*  Afternoon—Baseball: Davidson.
* vs, Wofford, Sprunt Field ;,

* time, 3:30 o'clock.
** 8 * © @ © © @ @ @

a

SONIAN

No. 28

Captain Allen Talks
to the Student Body

Speaks Vividly of Trench Lite---
Says We Must Sacrifice.

“This game of war is the greatest
game of all,” was explained by Captain
Allen, in the auditorium, Friday morn-
ing, during the third period. ‘The spedk-
er was a captain in the famous Princess
Pat Regiment, ot Canada, which saw,

evening, said that it would be an unwise] service in an earlier part of the fright-

ful drama. Captain Allen is one of the

as the large] few survivors of his decimated company.

Being wounded and unlit for service, he
is drilling the students at Carolina.

Vhe game was vividly portrayed by
personal reminiscences. Vhe fright when
first going into the trench was something
fearful, so great that one thinks that he .
in Never coming out. “Phe speaker ex-
plained a gas mask which he put on.
The yas attacks and preventions used
were discust in their horror, ‘To. the
audience he also explained the method of
shell gas and the liquid fiery darts of the
wicked.

Speaking af the yaod conditions of
the Gerniins he then said that the crucial
point of the war has been in the last
few weeks. tle was in a position to
know of the movements for the lav of
the country ald position of the cities
seemed perfectly familiar te him.

The man power situation was aptly
discust. Out of eight million popula-
tion Canada has cight hundred thousand
under arms. He spoke of the way in
which England was meeting this de-
mand. "Phe Germans will never be
overcome until we are willing to make a
wreater sacrifice.” In trench life there
is always something new. You do not
hecome exhausted with one phase of serv-
ice, He made a strong and urgent plea
for better drill in’ college.

‘There were unique descriptions and
charatterization of barrage fire, of trench
equipment, excess baggage, casualities,
British treatment of prisoners. of tank
procedure, how men go “over the top,”
pill boxes, how Germans get in trenches
and yet information, and of how nobody
likes the bayonet.

‘This was the most accurate and vivid
presentation of war in action that Da-
vidson students and tomwnspeople have
had the pleasure of hearing this year. It
was a source of regret that Captain Al-
len could not have given more details of
his truly colored experiences ‘over
there.”

DEATH OF MRS. ROBESON.

The sympathy of the entire student
body is extended to our beloved libra-
rian, Miss Cornelia Shaw, and her is-
ter, Miss Sarah Shaw, in the death of
their oldest sister, Mrs. Mary Shaw
Robeson. Word was received of her
sudden death in Greensboro, where she
had made her home, and Miss Cornelia
Shaw left Davidson, Friday morning, to
attend the funeral. Mrs. Robeson was
the widow of W. QO. Robeson. and was
heloved by her many friends in Greens-
boro. She is survived bv five children
and several brothers and sisters, among
whom two live in Davidson. Mrs.
Robeson was a sister of Mrs. Page, wife
of former Congressman R. N. Page.
