Ihe DAVIDSONIAN April 3, 1918 5

| Red Cross News I FORUM | DRY CLEANING |The Hoover & Smith Co.
High Grade Laundering

Fditor of the Forum,
The Davidsonian. Hats Cleaned &
ne Dear Sir: In a late copy of your Reblocked Official Fraternity

newspaper | note an article on “That
Horrid Bugle,” by a gentleman who The Charlotte Laundry Jewelers%
der for the month of March ith | EM himself “A Disciple of Morpheus.” Ola t La t B

arch met WIth) ty reply, | wish to say that while | have es rges est

The call for help to complete our or-

headquarters on the 27th. ‘The last
vsakis swack j : noe, ple getting up and working. Especially Laundry collected every TUESDAY night
week's work included the following: do I want it understood that | am in n0o| BOOST th ATHLETIC \ fi
e ssociation
bandages; wht ia ahen and a pair of socks} he used to get the men out to an early
& aso. morning drill. U think it is impugning|&
order to speed up future work on ban- a te wish deceit mat the said RICHMOND, VA.
dages. On account of difficulties of aan : Fall Line of Athletic Goods, Felt
for several days. However, the work Trusting that this explanation will : For information, address: | Goods, and other College Supplies,
letin boards for the news. Sieciy pentleman an claiming to be my Principal
At a recent meeting of representatives} . : "Estes,
is the largest in the county; that it is ° ‘ °
doing a greater amount of work; and The Miller-White Nook. sft ( Ct 00
DrugCompany | (Quilain-enwville
ville, except Salisbury. This should
make us feel a burden of responsibility
The whole community contributed to W
a huge basket of flowers which was sent No RROW Doing mre Work a ermal
to the hospital at Camp Greene on Sat- C
urday to be distributed among the sick O LLARS
Vie”
— CASCO-2¥/s in. CLYDE-2%in |The New Steam Press at the Old Tou tal ll
THE F LAG. Stand
Fellows!

ready response, and our goods were! had a pretty bad reputation for a sleepy] A. §. Petts, College Agent, 20 Chambers
30 sculletes; 50 abdominal bandages: wise opposed to Military Training at eee
Union Theological By Backing
The work room is to have two ban- my lovalty and patriotism to say that 1
. . have never instructed my disciples to
transportation our supplies are held up
. . . lieve a “4 j st 4 ’ ‘ ave
room will be opened again as soon as relieve any unjust calumny’ that mv ig W.W. Moore, D.D.,LLD. | LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO
peel, Morrnius Himsecr.
from all the Auviliaries of the Charlotte ORPHEUS TIMSE!
is the only work room doing surgical
Special Attention to Davidson Men ahe Ml Come Conn
as well as pride in our work, and be
s eo
Your flag and my flag. Brady Printing Co. Tobe Johnson

packed and delivered for shipment to head, I have never objected to other peo- 616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia
2§ T bandages; 120 5-yard gauze rolled Davidson, nor to any methods that may
dage rollers added to its equipment in], Seminary The Commissary
and the working force has had a holiday make any such protest as he has done.
supplies are received. Watch the bul- have attached to my name by the action }f
Chapter, it was found that our branch —When in Mooresville Visit— InManya Secluded
dressings. between Charlotte and Ashe-
grateful that we can serve in this way. A BIG IMPROVEMENT Take ke

ns
soldiers on Easter morning. FOR SPRING Better "Work dea

And how jt waves today. 17 Years at the Same Place

In your land and my land. .
And, half a world away. Statesville forth Carolina Drop in at the
e College >) : .
Rose red and blood red. PRINTERS G ry, R h Quality Store
he stripes forever gicam, ts urnishinges 9
Snow white and Soul white, If you want Good Printing and Quick| \‘9CN OS,
The good forefathers dream. Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it Fu mn itu re A | e tton Ss
Sky blue and true blue, S. M. GILBERT H hold F 7 h
Stars to gleam aright. AT THE COMMISSARY .
The gloried guidon of the day. fs Our Representatives at the College ouseno urnis

A shelter through the night.

ings, etc., go to

Your flag and my flag.
wR a Fin. n. cooonum a. co. stone

Your land and mv land,

Sacred within it’s folds. ‘ We can supply your wants

Your heart and my heart,
Beat quicker at the sight.

Sun kissed and wind tossed, . .
Red and Blue and White JACK TAR iii Let the Shu-Fixery Fix Em. C. McDonald

A NEW STYLE

The one Flag. the Great flag. FOR FALL AND WINTER
The Flag for me and you, 20c EACH
Glorified all else beside. oe 3 FOR 50c 12 FOR $2
@ a . Gown avn: . re
— Selected. Zon (ol/ars j
OLOEST BI IN AMERICA bd
AMERICA IS AHEAD, UNITED SHIRT 4 COLLARCO., TROY.N. ¥ For Fresh Meats Call WHITE'S, oN nels

BUT. NORTH CAROLINA

WW
i]
'
tY
ty
8,
ty
Ny
8
8!

——— a a nl
yyy rr Try itr i tlt ee i Lt er Tall ddd alee tee ihe oo

Ly

America is ahead of England in her
sales of War Savings Stamps, but North
Carolina is not yet at the top of the list
of the States. As a matter of fact. she
has been at the bottom, but we believe
when the next count is made, she will
be occupying a more respectable seat.

Special

BASE BALL
SHOE

Spring Shirts and Neckwear

Lion, Belk and Maryland Madras Shirts, 98c., $1.25, $1.50,

lead her cl De eae td collene ;
and it ke North Cantina 90 over the players. Seroney made of sclected Jeather. $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00. Silk Shirts, $6.00, 55.00, 53.95, $3.50 and
‘ Fil] sprin ing aty ic jexidie svlcs ee in
top” with her $50,000,000 is our purpose aes cote at ldine & B $2.95. Stetson, No Name and Belk Hats, new shapes and colors,
and motto. Make it yours’ palding & Dros. $2.50 to 36.00. Silk Neckwear, 25c., 50c., 75c. and 98c.

Se
\

There's one man on the campus who’s

wise—he carries an Ingersoll for the bell ;
time and a watch for the correct time. Mention THE Davipsontan.
—Ex. Patronize Our Adverttsers.

74 N. Broad St., Atlanta, Ga.

Belk Brothers : Charlotte |

