The DAVIDSONIAN. December 4, 1918 §

Mellon’s Clothes for
Young Men

are designed and tailored for us
by experts. Mellon quality is
the same now as before the war.

Knox and Stetson Hats. Exclusive
Haberdashery, Etc.

Mail orders have our prompt attention.

8-10 West 9 Charlotte,
Trade St. Mellon S$ N. C.

|| MR. RUTLAND CONDUCTS
With the Alumni REGULAR “Y” SERVICE

Mr. Rutland, our temporary “Y”
Mr. Duncan C. Buie, ex'62, the sec-| secretary, spoke at the regular Y. M.
ond of the noted Buie twins, whose pic-!C. A. meeting last Sunday night. Mr.
ture appeared in ‘he Davidsonian last] Rutland came here last Monday to fill
spring, died at his home near Lumber-| the place of Mr. Moore. He has already
ton, N. C.,. on November 30. His| made many friends, and is filling Mr.
brother, Duncan Alexander Buie. died| Moore's place very capably. ‘The serv-
October 3. The twins were born No-| ice Sunday night was well attended,
vember 12, 1833. They entered Da-|and Mr. Rutland held every one’s at-
vidson college in 1858, but withdrew] tention by his graphic experiences as a
in the spring of ’61 to enlist in the|“Y” secretary.
army. Throughout the Civil War both} He took as his text John 12:22;
brothers served ‘in the company known| "Sir, We Would See Jésus.” The op-
as the Scotch Grays. After the war] portunity for the “Y" comes as soon as
both settled near Lumberton, N. C.]a man enters camp—when he finds him-
They were known as Davidson's oldest] self among strange surroundings and
twin alumni. They were very loyal to] strange people. It is at this point that a
their Alma Mater. man says to himself, ‘1 don't give a ‘rip.’
——_—— I'm in the army now,” and takes — the
It is interesting to note that the ser-| downward path. And then it is that
mon of Dr. Walter W. .Moore, °78,) the “Y" comes in. ‘The comfortable
President af Union Seminary, on “’Vhe} huts, and the inspiring talks by “Y"
Value of the Church,” which was pub-| men have both saved many a man. ‘Then
lished by the National War Work] Mr. Rutland told of some of his experi-
Council, has reached ,its 150th thousand.| ences. He kept the whole audience
This: sermon, which is being given such | laughing over his boxing match with the

widespread circulation in pamphlet} 210-pound ‘Tennesseean, who was will- .

form, is regarded as one of the finest | ing to be knocked out that it might add] q™ |

pulpit efforts of modern times. to the “show.” And then he told about] f |
the aviator who took him up in’ his We Feature

ST. CECILIA DANCE machine. It is amen like that aviator,

AT , Mr. Rutland said. that the “¥" needs ll Mil ° . P lh .
A GREAT SUCCESS to touch most. After this war, they | A Z ttary ub ications
The St. Cecelia Club of Davidson will be leaders in their professions, “They ;
College pave their annual Thanksgiving have learned a-business thoroughly, and And carry the most complete line of
datice on last Tharsday evening at the are arse obey and he obeyed. | . .
: Manufs <’ Club. It is the hat is keeping these men k d G f
cracecderings the inclemency ‘of the from evil and showing Jesus and Chris- Boo S, Stationery an 1 ts
. tianity to them.

weather and the short time required to In North Carolina
plan the dance, it proved a great suc-

cess. ‘he music was furnished by _ “Now, Bertie, if you're very good I'll 9
Shuemaker's Orchestra of Columbia,} Ve you a penny.

S. C.. consisting of five pieces. Thru “I'm afraid 1 can’t afford to be good

the instrumentality of C. L. Hall and J. fer less'n two cents, gran’ma—not the 210 South Tryon St. ; CHARLOTT E, N.C

way prices is today.”—Life.

E. McQueen the music rendered was
excellent and full of “pep.”

The members of the club were all in
khaki while the ladies wore dresses of Columbia Theological

varied colors and styles, which presented

Mail Orders a Specialty

a gay looking throng on the. dance floor. Seminary nin carmen ee “To osrmaecoemocoweceeca
The evening passed hurriedly and as H H
the notes of “Home Sweet Rome” were Columbia, South Carolina H i
sounded in the éarly morning hours one H ee eye e 99 :
of the most enjoyable dances ever given For information and catalogues HI Militar ll tlers oa
by the club, ended. write the president : ; ti

a

ie

Among the attractive visitors’ were
Misses Mildred Patterson, Gladys
Palmer, Juliett Bristol, Dorothy Gill,
Ruth Gill, Elizabeth Bolles. Margaret
Spratt, Louise McQueen, Francis Me-
deris, Rogers Gibbon, Minerva Arring-| Are You Ready for the Season
ton, Helen Parker, Elsie Palmer,

Mamie and Glories Holt. White Mrs. With
J. L. Gill, of Statesville, and Miss

Lucy Oats. of Charlotte, chaperoned. HIGH CLASS SHOES?

Kuppenheimer Uniforms-—the Best Known.
Stetson Army-Hats. _Barnistee Puttees

Everything in the Military Line

At Reasonable Prices

Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

Also complete line of Men’s and Young Men's
SUITS and OVERCOATS, Ete.

aie OLICY BE CONTINUED A Complete i “WE SAVE YOU MONEY”
With the. demoilization of the S. A. Line of : V. WALLACE & SONS

T. C. there comes the question of what ene
will be done concerning insurance and Military Shoes

31-33 West Trade Street 2 3 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Liberty bonds. Nearly, every man in

the Davideon S. A. T. C. has been car- e M Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro ‘
tying $10,000 government war risk in- Gilm C } :
surance, which has cost him $6.40 a er - oore 0. |

month, If he allows his insurance to Hi 4G

drop now he will simply have lost about South Tryon Street aaa aaa saeaacaaaaacaaaaimasasaaaaaaaiaaaa
$12.80 Lieutenant Dennard advises

s .

every man to continue to carry this in- Charlotte, N. C.

surance, as it is cheaper than any other

life insurance. It can be carried unde e
ie insane eae tor ed cac{The Bank of Davidson) | SPALDING’S

five years after which it can be con- DAVIDSON, N. C. For Shoes
verted into)regular government insur- Caps, Belts
ance. erty Lond have been bought Does Commercial Banking, Foot Ball
iberty bonds, too, have been boug . » Equipment LN
on the allotment plan, paying $5 a month Rans a Savings Departm t, = Sweaters MARLEY 2% IN. DEVON 24% IN.
for cach $50 bond. These can probably Has Lock Boxes For Rent F oe Jerseys
be transferred to a bank and the pay- eASS—_———n_evwvw—— 2 And the implements for every
ment continued. However, the better Your business is solicited athletic gume, of course.
way is to pay up the balance due on Jobe L. Deugias, Pres., W.8. Thompson, Cab. A. G. SPALDING .& Bros.
them and receive the bonds. Then 4. Lee Stean, V-Pres. COI LAR
later, if some cash is needed, they can} W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier 74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga. CLUCTT, PEABODY @ CO., INC, MAKERS
be cashed in at some bank. a __

