THEDAVI

SONIAN

Vol. VI.

New Uniforms Caused
Many Ludicrous Sights

Amusing Situations When Soldiers
First Donned Their Uniforms.

“Ye who listen with credulity to the
whispers of fancy, and) pursue with
eagerness the phantoms of hope: who
expect that age will perform the promises
of youth, and that the deficiencies of the
present day will be supplied by the mor-
row:..... ‘hearken unto this’: the uni-
forms have come.”

On ‘Tuesday, the 19th, Davidson ex-
perienced another phase of her epochal
era in that her soldier-students under-
went the change which marked the end
of their civilian life for the present time:
civilian clothes were laid aside and stored
away with moth balls to be sent home
and—the army uniform was donned.

About 9 o'clock a detail was selected
to bring from the freiglit office severat
boxes. “There was but one thought: that
the uniforms were here at last. Day by
day they were looked for, and on the
preceding day when two boxes were
brought up, it was thought they had
come; but it proved to be mattress cov-
ers and barracks bags. When the detail
returned and numerous boxes were plac-
ed on the ground outside Headquarters,
a few curious and unbelievig ones stop-
ped on the way to classes, and had it
been an “off hour” guards would have
had to have been established ‘to handle
the crowd,

At drill formation that. afternoon,
Lieutenant Candler had the men form
in line in the order they were measured,
and the issuing began. After the issuing.
which lasted all the afternoon, each man
scampered jauntily to barracks to “put
it on.”

The first assembly in the new regalia
was a most propitious one, and yet the
array was quite a ludicrous affair. The
uniforms were “on,” but “how?” Who
knew whether or not the hooks on the
leggings should be in the rear, and who
of the erstwhile rookies knew the hat
brim should, be worn paralle’ to terra
firma, who, even of the wise ones, knew
the blouse was to be worn to mess? For
once all ex-Plattsburgers were in glory.
‘They were here. there and everywhere,
and by words of condescending endear-
ment and stentorian tones of admoni-
tion and even meaningless supercilious
commands, we were told specifically how
to wear the different articles of khaki
apparel.

Yet. “if we could see ourselves as
ithers see us.” It is wondered how many
mirrors were utilized this past week.
The Boy Scouts think us a veritable
farce and thev say: “It is to laugh.”
Company D is at last “coming into its
own” in watching us in our efforts at
soldierly appearance: they, to their
minds, are enjoying a huge joke, such as
was enjoyed by us when we witnessed
their first appearance in uniforms.

With the night and “call to quarters”
came the mounting up again of man’s in-
stinctive desire to dress. Every room
was patronized by brothers in arms.
Each man wanted to “swap” some ar-
ticle. ‘Who wants a number four
blouse for a number five?” “I'll give

(Conontinued on page 4)

tthe Army Y. M. C. A. could do.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 27, 1918.

No. 9

Oh, 1s nice to get upiin the morning — But it’s nicer ta lic in bed,

Mr. Moore Transferred
To Rochester Univ.

Changes Are Made In
S. A. T. C. Schedule

“Y” Secretary Leaves For Larger | Will Return to Academic Work After

Field—New Secretary Here.

Rev. James A. G. Moore, our “Y"
secretary, who has been with the David-
son S. A.V. C. since October 1, has ac-
cepted what he considers the calling to:
greater need than ours, and left us Sun-
day night to take up the “Y" work at
the University of Rochester, Rochester,
N. Y. ,

Especially since the 8. A. T. C. work
began there has been the need of some
organization on the campus of the Uni-
versity of Rochester to take hold of a
spiritual work there that none other than
In
looking out for a man who has in him-
self the high qualifications to assume as
“Y" secretary, the eyes of the committee
fell upon our man, Mr. Moore, who is
an alumnus of that university. Mr.
Moore gives the opportunities of a great-
er field of service as his sole reason for
leaving us.

Altho he has been at Davidson Col-
lege only a short time, every man on the
Hill has come to admire him, to make
him his close friend and confidante. It
is with deep regret to all that we see him
leave us after the formation of such close
friendship. And as he goes to assume
his new duties the earnest best wishes
of every Davidson student and professor
go with Mr. Moore, and we feel sure
that with his strong personality he will
come out on top in his new work.

A permanent “Y” secretary will be
sent to take Mr. Moore's place. Da-
vidson students have come to love the
Army Y. M. C. A. and appreciate its
value; and we are glad that Mr.
Moore's splendid work may be kept up.
we hope always. At present the ap-
pointee to this position has not been
selected. For the few weeks interim,
until December 15, Davidson has Mr.
Rutland. a “Y” secretary of sixteen
months’ experience in Camps Gordon

(Conontinued on page 4)

Christmas Vacation.

From now on the military schedule
has been so changed that drill will be
held only: on Mondays, ‘Tuesdays and
Vhursdays: and omilitary | instruction
periods will be changed from two. to one
hout a week. lt is the beginning of a
gradual change in the S. A. “T-C. to
meet peace conditions. Credit will be
given all men for their S. Ao’T. C. work.
and after Christmas men willbe allawed
to select subjects they want. ‘Vhe aca-
demic phase will return to pre-war col-
lege conditions, tho the military phase
will continue. °

Announcement has been made that
every S. A. T. C. man will be given a
five-day furlough Christmas; half a com-
pany from December 21 to 26, and the
other half from December 24 to 209.
It looks awfully short, but the mast will
be made of that short week. Phe method
of dividing the companies will be by the
individual men’s preference as far as
possible.

DAVIDSON-CLEMSON GAMF.
TO BE PLAYED AT CLEMSON

Much disappointment is felt on the
campus on account of the Clemson game
being plaved at Clemson College instead
of Charlotte. “Phis has alwavs been the
Turkey-dav feature for the Davidson
men, and will be seriously missed this
vear. However, the whole spirit of the
student body goes with our team into
South Carolina, and believing that we
will come out with the big end of the
score, as has been our:custom for the last
few vears.

Clemson has a good team this year,
and it will not be easy work for Da-
vidson to win, but with the fight, fight,
fight our team puts up. we feel confi-
dent that it will acquit itself admirably.

Davidson Held Heavy
Remounters to 0 and 0

Game Featured by Defensive Playing
of Davidson.

The Davidson Wildcats, on last: Sat-
urday, held the heavy Remount team
from Camp Cireene cto a scoreless tie.
Vhe das was perfect for tootball and a
large vrowd of service men turned out
to withess the strugyle.

The Wildcats, so far had been un:
heaten, and at first the odds seemed to
be ia the Collegians’ favor, but soon the
superior weiplit began to, tell, and by a
series of dine phingeS and end runs the
Remount team seemed to show goad
form, Davidson relied on tonward
passes and buck plavs, that were. as a
rule, ably evecuted, and proved that the
teany had been well coached.

Both goals snes were trequently. in
danger, but. the final “push needed to
put the ballvacross seemed to he lacking.
Onee, in the final moments of the game,
the Remounters had the ball three yards
front Davidson's poal, but here the Red
and Black machine showed their game-
nes and with two mighty onslaughts
repulsed the Remounters.

In'the first period Nicely kicked off
for Davidson, the Remounters recurn-
ing to the 2o-\ard line, “Vhe Sammies
were stopped, however, after reaching
Davidson g-yard line, “Vhe Wildcats
regained most of this ground, however,
only lose it again by fumbles, '

Duting the second quarter the ball
cee sawed back and forth, -the halt leav-
ing the ball in the center of the field.

During the third and fourth periods
the edge seemed to be toward Davidson,
with the exception of the latter part of
the last quarter, when the Remounters
came near putting the pig skin. across,
and would have succeeded had it not
been for the splendid defensive work of
the Wilcats. The game ended with the
ball in mid-field in Davidson's possession.
The line-up was as follows:
DAVIDSON (O) POSITION, REMOUNT(O)
White... ...0....01 .. Plasnig
McMaster.......1/0 2... McClelland
Brady...........LG........ Miller

Crouch. ........0- C....... Coyner
Robson. 20.6.0... RG... 0.8. . Scott
Fischel. .. 00.0... RT o...... Baker
Douglas. ........ RE... .. Griffith
Spann... 0.0. 068. QB....... Raney
MeAllister......LDHB........ Lan
Johnson. ....... RHB.... . Cowgill
Miley. .......... FB... ... Blaine

JACK PAISLEY’S PICTURE
PRESENTED TO COLLEGE

Mr. Paisley, of Gibsonville, N.C.
recently presented an almost _ life-size
picture of his san, Lt. J. C. Paisley, "17,
who was killed in action over there last
summer. The photograph is of head
and shoulders and is a very good like-
ness. Tt will be hung upstairs in’ the
Library along with other photographs
and remembrances of Davidson men who
died in the service.

Last Saturday Company C was again
vaccinated for small pox, as the first
vaccinations did not prove successful.

Hard luck, Company C.

LOOK OUT, CLEMSON!
