Vol. VI.

Davidson Takes State Championship |
Football from Carolina; Score 14-7

In Fast Game, Featured by Long Passes,
Wildcats Out-play Tarheels.

_ Before a comparatively small crowd.
Davidson defeated Carolina, Saturday,
14-7 ina game that will rival any of
the preceding games in fight, cleanness of
game and .beauty. ‘Vhose of us who
were lucky enough to get to Winston
will never forget that memorable oc-
casion. For the last eight vears, year
after year, with the exception of last
year, when the University did not put
out a team, Carolina has taken away the
bacon. In 1910, you will remember.
Davidson defeated Carolina 6-0 when
[.. Richardson recovered a fumble and
dashed 60-yards for a touchdown, Won
ona fluke, you say? Well, perhaps so.
but that game Saturday certainly was
not. It was a cleancut defeat, marked
by the tenacity and team-work of the
Wildcats,

In the first quarter Carolina started
off with a rush, and it looked for a while
that Carolina would have a walk-away.
Her quick get-off, and driving plays soon
placed the ball one foot from D. C.’s
goal line. Carolina had three downs to
put it across. “Then came in some of the
prettiest exhibitions of defensive foat-
ball seen on Prince Albert field in many
a year. Every time the ball was snapped.
Massey, Fischel and Crouch were right
in front of the play, and there it stopped.
After three line plunges, the ball went
over. No doubt but that if Carolina
had tried an end run she could have
made the necessary, foot, but at line
plunges she was stalled. Spann easily
passed the ball out of danger, ‘fhe other
feature of the game was the long run
around end by Johnson. This boy re-
ceived a short pass from Spann, and ran
80 yards with the ball, running out of
bounds on the 10-yard line. After an-
other pass had failed. Johnson went
around. end for touchdown.

Carolina's team showed up well at
first, in fact.clearly outclassed Davidson
in the first few minutes of play, but she
soon wore out. However, coming back
strong at the beginning of the ‘second
half, by a series of passes and line
plunges by Ferrington and Lowe, car-
ried the ball over, but at no other time
during ‘the game was D. C.'s goal in
danger.

The game by quarters was as follows:

Davidson kicks off to Carolina, Me-
Neely returning 25 yards. McNeely
fails to gain. Ferrington gains 8 yards
thru center: Pharr gains 3 yards thru
center. First down. Pharr gains 3
yards over left guard; McNeely gains 1
yard thru center; Lowe gains 18 yards
over right tackle: McNeely gains 2
yards over left tackle; Pharr fails to
gain around right end: Ferrington fails
to gain; McNeely fails to gain. Pass
broken up by White. Ball goes over.
Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 35-yard
line. Johnson punts to Carolina, Pharr
returning 2 yards. Ferrington gains 4
yards thru center; Pharr gains 4 yards
over right tackle; Ferrington gains 2
yards over center. First down. Mc-
Neely fails to gain. Carolina penalized

: STATE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS

Bayonet Course Is

Now Almost Completed

Wark on the bayonet course, has prog-
ressed very rapidly during the past week.
One entire afternoon was devated to
this work alone. while on cach afternoon
some work was done upon it. “Vhe first,
second and third line trenches have been
completed and the fodrth line trench is
being rushed to completion,

The first line trench, from which, the
boys will leave. is a simple standing
trench. Just outside of this trench will
be a line of wire entanglement. This
will most probably be barbed wire. As
soon as this line of obstruction is. over
come the second line trench, which is a
tranverse trench, will be encountered
Just bevoend the second line trench is a
line of dummies upon which the boys
will use their bavenets. When these
dummies have been bavoneted the men
fo on and cross over the third — line
trench. which is another simple trench.
On the parapet of this trench will prob
ably be dummies which must be over
come before an advance can be made.

About ten yards in advance of the
third line trench is the second line of
standing dummies. When the men have
completed this line they pass on and
jump across the fourth trench, This
trench is six feet in width and six in
depth. and furthermore. it will contain
several feet of water, so each man will
be untluckly who does not get across.

When the bavonet course is completed
it will be one of the best in any of the

S. A, T. C. colleges.

10 vards for holding. Pharr yained 1

‘yard thru center; Ferrington punts 4o

yards to Spann, who returns 25 vards.
Johnson gains 6 yards over center:
Spann gains t yard ‘over center: Massie
gains to vards over right tackle. First
down, Brown intercepts pass. Caro-
lina'’s ball on Davidson's 60-vard_ line.
Ferrington: gains 15) yards thru line:
Lowe gains 1 yard over, tackle; Ferring-
ton gains § vards thru center; Pharr
gains 4 vards over center... First down.
Ferrington gains 4 ‘yards thru center:
Pharr gains § yards over left. tackle:
Ferrington gains 2 yards. First. down.
Lowe gains 2 vards: Lowe lost 1 yard:
Ferrington failed to gain. Ball goes over.
Davidson's ball on own 15-sard_ line.
Spann gains § vards around left end.
Time out for Davidson. Johnson gains
t yard over right guard. Johnson punt-
ed yo yards and Pharr returns 10. Fer-
rington failed to gain over center; Lowe
gains 1 yard thru center. Davidson pen-
alized 5 vards, offside. Lowe gains 1
yard; Pharr gets 1 vard* over _ right
tackle. Quarter up. Score: 0-0.
SECOND QUARTER.

Carolina's ball on Davidson's 25-vard
line. Pharr gains 2 vards; Pharr gains
3 vards; Lowe failed to gain; Pharr
gains 1 yard over left guard; Pharr
gains 1 yard over center; Ferrington
failed to gain. Ball goes over. Da-

(Continued on page 6)

i

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 20, 1918.

No. 8

Davidson Leads All Colleges Per Capita
In Recent United War Work Campaign

Co. “D” Walked Over
Co. “C” In Football

e Winston-Salem wasn't the only place
where football was played Saturday.
While the Varsita was in action on tor
cign, but neuteal ground. there was a
“eivil war’ at bieame—Companies C and
1) were locked in a desperate’ football
match, ‘

At the beginning of the game — the
team of Company D. the heavier, show-
ed better form and gave the impression
that even if they couldn't beat C* in
haskethall, they could win fram them in
football; and the victory which they did
win satiated their desire for revenge.

The game was devoid of any sensa
tional plays, but, forgetting the looseness
of play. and lack of team work: on both
sides. it was a very delighthul affair.

Every man fought hard and evinced
at times the “de or die” spirit, soit
would he dificult to culogize each man
ceparately, | However, the line plunging
of Price and the end run of Alexander
for a touchdown for Company D, should
deserve mention, while the work — of
Company C's backfield, light tho it was,
quite redeemed their lost chances of
scoring,

D's second and last touchdawn came
in the third quarter when Ratchford
received a pass on 20-yard line and car-
ried ball around right end for touch
down: Denny kicked goal.

Final score: Company D 13, Com
pany Co,

The line-up was as follows:

“CC Pasttion, “pe”
Brvee, S. DL... LE 0. 0. Moore
Byrd... ee. LP oo... Summers
Graham. ....... LG 2.0... Jehnson
MePheeters RAL. Co... Duuper
Massie, OL FL... RG 2... Humphries
Kiver. oo... 0... RG... Brice, R. M.
Cochran. ........ RE. Ratehford WS.
Walker. ...0... QB..... » Denny
Ratchford. ..... LHB.... Alexander
Ormand. 2.02... RHB 2... 2. Price
Vanee........ . FBO... . Svotr

Substitutes: Knight for Johnson.

Referee: Phillips; Linemen: Garth

and) Harrell; ‘Time: “Fwelve minute
quarters,

DANCE SCHEDULED FOR
ERIGHTH DAY OF NEX’T WEEK

On the cighth day of next week Com-
panies A, B, C and D will gaily partici-
pate in a dance held in the gymn. “The
fair sex will be well represented from
the surrounding metropoli and there will
be no chaperone present. The gymn
floor will be waxed to perfection, and
old Davidson will see one of the finest
dances in its history.

Snence and R. T. B. UL E. Liston
will have charge of all arrangements,
and it is confidently believed that the
whole affair will be a complete success.
Owing to unavoidable interruptions no
such ceremonies could be fit into the
rigid schedule up to the present, but tse
camous wil) undergo a round of festivé
ties between now and Christmas.

Whirlwind Campaign Lasted One Hour.
$7,179.50 Raised.

Davidson went “over the top” in her
United War Wark  Canspaign, Last,
spring inthe Red) Cross Campaign the
college was assigned $2,000. | This.
amount was more than raised. “Vhes tall
Davidson was called on for twice this
amaunt Sg.000, When this allotment
was at first made known it met doubts
an the part ofa tew. “The amount seem
ed an cnormous sum for so collepe stur
dents to give. But) whatever doubts
uty have found existence on the campus
vanished when the spirit of the givers
and thetr donations were called forth
last Weilnesday night, November 13.
Vhe sum raised was nat $g.000, but $7,-
179.50.

Vhe United War Wark Campaign
here had tts hepinning Monday night,
November, rt, when the leaders and the
canvassing yroups came together to unite
and discuss plans.

Dr. Arbuckle, chairman of the college
campaign, presented forcefully the tre-
mendous inportance of the activities to
which the money was yy be given. ‘Then
Mr. Moore laid wae plans he had
made far the campaign, “The commit-
tees caught their spirit, and entered act-
ive discussion. Tt was suggested that
the committeemen sign their pledges be-
fore adjourning in drder to set the cam-
paign on foot. “Phis was done, and the
go members of these comuittees pledged
$1,200,

The general canvass was set for Wed
nesdav night. Alb four companies and
non-S. ALP. Co men gathered in Shearer
Hall to hear the objects of the campaign
discussed. “Vhe news of Davidson's al-
Jorment and of the amount already sub-
seribed by her committees had already
spread to every man. Brilliant reports
had been coming in from other colleges,
All had seen the Lighted blackboard and
chart in front of Watts’ dormitory and

Anew that events of tremendous impor-

tance were presaged to take place within
the next few haurs.

Dr. Arbuckle arose and addressed the
meeting, announcing Davidson's allot-
ment and presentings the tmportance: of
the present campaign. "Tr is true.” he
declared, “that peace is in sight, but our
soldiers wall need these war work activi-
ties all the greater.” The summary of
his talk was that this campaign is “the
greatest of them all.” He ended by
saving, “Why limit it to $y,0002”

Mr. Moore was called upon to out-
line and explain the plans by which this
money was to be raised. ‘Vhe plan
which was then brought forward was
one of company competition. ‘The com-
panies and non-S. A. ‘T. C. men were
ta represent the yreat Allied Powers.
Companies A, B, C and D were to rep-
resent France, Italy, Great Britain and
America, respectively. ‘Fhe non-S. A.
‘T. C. men were to represent the Amer-
ican home forces. Leaders McCloy,
Woods, Chalmers and Foreman were to
represent the military leaders of these
respective nations, and Leader McCas-

(Continued on page 6)
