Vol. V.

Lieutenant Harper

Initiates Novel Plan| -

Buys Liberty Bond for College
Publication.

Dr. Martin has received the tollowing
letter which explains itself:
Co. 18, sth Vr. Bn.
156 Depot Brigade.
Camp Jackson, §. C.,
April 4. 1918.
Dr. W. J. Martin,
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Dr. Martin:

You have in the blanket fee for the
college publications, athletic association.
etc,, what | consider a very good idea.
and [| want to add a little variation to it.

We in the service never know where
we will be or what will become of us a
vear or so from now, of, course. If 1
knew VT vould be in my home town then
I would be planning 10 use a good par
of my spare Ume there in talking the
good qualities of Davidson to prospective
students. Since it is uncertain whether
] will be able to carry out that tdea or
not, | want to do the next best thing,

fam sending you a check for onc
hundred dollars (S100.00) which vou
will invest in a Sso0 bond of the ‘Vhird
Liberty Loan. The income from this
bond is to be a blanket fee from = the
Lenoir High School. It will not include
the Athletic Association, but will be
divided between Tre Davinsontan,
the Davidson College Magazine. and
Quips and Cranks, in such proportion
as the president of the college may from
time to time decide to be just, provided
that the Lenoir High School shall hence
forth and forever receive the three pub-
lications above named.

The business manager of the college
will see personally at least once each
year that the High School above named
is receiving the three publications and
that no mistakes of address, mailing.
etc., have been made. They shall be
sent to the following address: Lenoir
High School, care of Senior Class, Le-
noir, N. C.

‘IT hope that in time the same thing
can be spread to other High Schools and
Preparatory Schools so that prespective
students may keep in touch with David:
son and the quality of the work done
there.

Tn accepting the enclosed check you
will, of course, agree to the above con-
ditions.

With best wishes to all connected
with the college, I remain,

Yours cordially,
(Signed) James C. Harper,
ist. Lt. Inf. N. A.

SPLENDID SPEAKERS
FOR COMMENCEMENT

Despite reports that Davidson’s com-
mencement would be a small affair—a
kind of “God bless you—may I never
see you again” performance, it is to be
noted that the usual ceremonies will be
observed.

The college has been very fortunate
in securing good speakers for commence-
ment this vear. The following is a list
of the speakers which have been secured :
Annual Literary Address, Congressman

(Continued on page 2)

Team Defeats University of Georgia and Orglethorpe.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 10, 1918.

Wild Cats’ Southern Trip
Brings Many Victories

Breaks Even

With University of S. C. and Georgia Techs:

The Davidson baseball team had a
very succes: ful trip through South Caro-
lina and Georgia last week. A large
per cent of the games ‘were won by the
“Wildcats” and-in. the two games that
were lost, thetr opponents had close
games, and hard. fights, before coming
out on top. In Atlanta especially were
the Presbyterians hailed as a real ball
team by the tans. Uhe Atlanta Journal
save: ‘Phe Davidson team js about the

generally satisfactory, and Coach Fetzer
will have ie working like a machine be
fore the scason becomes advanced, Cas-
sell, the Freshman third baseman, seems
to be especially promising.

Clarke and Currie ably assisted
Hfengeveld in the pitching department,
and “Buck” Burns handled the catching
end lke a big leaguer.

TIRST UNIVERSITY OF 8. C. GAME.

With both Waring and Ilengeveld

niftiest college team in these parts.”| pitehing air tight ball, the L.S of S

“hich shows that our team made a wery
good impression in the metropolis of the
South.

Captain Hengeveld avas the Itader ot and shoived good control,

. neced out a winner by the score of 2
toa. Waring preched a beautiful gam

r the Cramecocks. Ele fanned 14 men
[engeveld

his men on this irio -soealang both [i-ron the other hand. yielded one les hi

erally and tiguratively, Not only did

thar his opponent and struck out seven

the big Dutchman general the team int hue be showed a tendency to be wild a
fir-cclass stele. bui his individual clorts.( times.

whether pitching or plaving some other |
“osition, came near to being phenomina!.! the fourth inning.

Fach tcam scored an carned run in
Milex’s long. cripl

He batted tor an average ot abont ..450| followed by Baswell’s single scored Da

and was an iron man when it came to} vidson’s lone

pitching. ‘This is shown by the fact that

|

CAPTAIN HENGEVELD

he pitched three full games in four days,
including both games of Friday's double-
header with Georgia Tech, and relieving
Currie in the second Carolina game in
addition. Errors caused his defeat in
two of the prettiest pitched games on the
trip.

The team. as a whole, played a high

rade of baseball. The outfield, com-
posed of Flowers, Spann, Miley and
Hengeveld, showed up especially well.
Spann, the speed artist of the squad,
fielded like a veteran and ran wild on
the bases. Flowers’ bad knee, which
was hurt in the Lenoir game, slowed
him up slightly, but kept him out of only
one game.

Although the infield, which with one
exception, is made up of new men this
year, played fast ball at all times. There
were times, though, when it showed a
tendency to wobble at critical moments.
However, the inner field showed up as

pame 5 to 3.

taliv. Sumter Clarke
“Clamecack’s” captains and brother of
“Railroad.” brought home Seahorn, wh:
had siveled, with an infield out. “Phe
winning run was scored in the fifth on
an error, Hengeveld made three hits.

“The score: ne
Davidson .....000 100 Q00—1 6 3
U.S.C... ee. 000 110 GCOx—2 § 6

Batteries:  Hlengeveld and Burns.
Waring and = Seahorn. ‘Vime, 1:20.

Umpire, Clark.
SECOND U. S. C. GAME.

Davidson evened up the count with
the “Gamecocks” by winning the second
Carolina went into the
ninth taning with the big end of a 4 te 2
score. . With Wolfe going like a house
afire, and Davidson's weak end up, the
outlook was bright for the South Caco
linians. ‘Vhings soon happened, how
ever, that put a different face on mat
ters. “Vhe “Gamecocks’ ” followers say
their team) slumped—others say it was
merely a demonstration of “persevering
to the end” on the part of the Presby
terians. Whatever cause we decide up-
on, the result was three runs and the
old ball game.

Phe pitching of Currie and the bat
ting of Hengeveld and Cassell, featured
for Davidson, Seahorn and S. Clarke
were the stars for Carolina. The score:

CAROLINA AB R H PO Ak
Bowen, rf... .. .. § 0 O 1.00
Evans, 3b... 4 07 0 2:0
Seahorn,c .. .. .. 4 § 2 8 8 ot
S. Clarke. ss .. .. 4 1 3°25 8
Conrad, cf... .... 4 0 2 00 0
Baker, If .. -3 oF 100
Kohn, 2b... .. 301 3 3 2
Parker, ib......3 0 4112 011
Wolfe, p .. .... 4 0000 0
*Beall .. 1 ot 000
** Wessinger -' 00000
*'*Waring.....1 00 00 0

Total .. 36 3:12 27:13°«§

DAVIDSON ARB R H POA FE
Spann, cf .. .. .. 5 O TFT 100
King, ss... ....4 00 2 3°41

(Continued on page §)

No. 26

Dr. Vance Outlines
Moral Aims of War

Says America Must Put Her All In
This War.

‘Tuesday night Dr. James 1. Vance,
I.10.. made a stirring address in Shearer
Hall on the “Moral Aims of the War.”
Dr, Vance is a prominent minister of
Nashville, ‘Penn.. being pastor of the
Virst’ Presbyterian Church of that. city.
He is also chairman of the executive
omnutiee of the ederal Council of
Churches. and alo chairman of the Na-
tional War Work Council of the South-
em Presbyterian Church. ls tatensely
interesting address was enjoved by ail

¢ ent.

Dr. \ ance said that America ts in this

at backed by a. great moral purpose
ond that as Usis is trae she must not hesi-
ate to lav on the altar of her taith all
tat he is and has and hopes tor for
rersel{ an.l for other nations. 10 win the
“ua. Siaee chis qwar ha. great moral
vimis, it is mecessarv. the speaker said, to
now what ther are.

Anterica is fighting for a cafe world.
‘Ynly remember the things char the Hun
‘vas dene onlv think of Beletam, of
neutcal shioping and fives destroyed. of
te Lusit-aia when medals commem-
rating the event were truck off in
renmany, and the conflict proves to be

farce between two irreconcilable
heories af government, autoeracy and
lemacracy.

‘The war is based on the Christian
loctrine of the rights of the individual
and the value of the common min. Men
hall not be cogs in a governmental ma-
chine controlled. by a tyrannical enperor
hut the world shall be a place where’“2
man’s aman for a’ that.” He shall not
go back into the dungeon of feudalism
and serfdom. Te shall be free.

America fights for morality, a moral-
ity that preserves our character as a
nation and as citizens, a morality. that
insists that principle and not expediency
shall be the controlling feature. Amer-
icst’s aims demand a standard of morals
which savs that what is right) for man
as an individual is right for men as a
nation. The Hun and all who worship
the Hun's god must be given to under-
stand that the future world will not
tolerate double standards of morals.

Our nation fights for a league of na-
tions to make all this possible so that
war will) never more jeopardize the
world’s aims and ideals. World peace
and the establishment of a recognized
tribunal to settle international disputes
must be the outcome of this war.

In closing Dr. Vance said that if there
was ever a time when we could hang our
flag in our churches and let its folds
drape the cross, it is now, when America
is fighting “the good fight of faith.” Let

the flag summon us to undying patriot-

ism in the name of the God of battles.
Dr. Vance is touring the South on
his mission of spreading enthusiasm and
interest in this national enterprise. Da-
vidson was very fortunate to have him
here as a result of a cancelled date at
another one of his appointments.

F. Flinn, W. B. and G. S. Crouch at-
tended the Davidson games in Atlanta
last week.
