YAViDSONIAN

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. AUGUST 20, 1919.

No. |

Letter From “Y” President Greater Davidson Club Davidson Welcomes

Chalmers Writes of Some of the Things
the Association Plans for this
Coming Year.

Camp Sapphire.
Brevard, N. C..
August 4, 1919.
Dear Friends:

If you look at your calendar again,
you'll’ see that it isn’t very long until
we will be notifying all of our girls to
address us at Davidson, N. C. , (care
Davidson College), while we ourselves
enjoy the unexcelled climate of the
above mentioned college. Since the time
is so short we are ready and anxious
about everything that will affect our
student life this year. And so the Y.
M. C. A. takes advantage of this issue
of “The Davidsonian™ to acquaint you
with its aims and plans for the “good
year 1919-20.

We begin this year with several ad-
vantages we have never enjoyed before
and which will give us a “lead” over
previous years. For example, we will
have a general secretary this session who
bats a thousand the year round, | ex-
pect you have already gotten a_ letter
from him (he signs his name R. W.
Miles, Jr.) ‘Then here is the $3 per
capita fund that the student body has
voted for general “Y” work. They
realized that our association could not
expand without funds and every live
student wants the work to increase.
And, by the way, this money together
with the remainder of our $3000.00
budget will be in the hands of the “Y”
board of control composed of three fac-
ulty members and four students of test-
cd business ability. So we can count on
every dollar doing its maximum amount
of work.

Another advantage is the group of fel-
lows who attended the student: confer-
ence at Blue Ridge in June. Davidson
was represented by eight students, the
general secretary and his wife, one fac-
ulty representative, and three alumni.
‘Those who attended the conference will
be better prepared and more inspiring
workers, on account of the ten days on
the mountain side. Before we left we
decided upon fifty as a minimum dele-
gation for next summer, so be sure and
include this conference in your summer
schedule.

These then are come of the new tools
we use for the first time this year and
with them the Y. M. C. A. plans to ac-
ccmplish larger and more efficient ser-
vice. The usual Bible and mission study
groups will be reinforced by a course in
the study of college problems. This
year under the leadership of L. L. Mc-
Alister and L. G. Calhoun, we hope to
make the courses unusitgl by new and
more interesting subject matter and by
having 1oo per cent enrollement. The
plans. for receiving the new men have
been completed and also those for “Col-
lege Nite.” The Reception committee
is also planning work for the entire year
so “Doug” McArn wrote me. The Per-
sonal Work Committee is in touch with
a minister for our fall. services, whom I
would walk twenty miles barefooted to
hear. The Sunday School extension
work will continue with S. H. Askew
at the helm and some community work
will be started that will give a lot of fel-
lows something to do besides let the
trains through. The programs that
Dave Roberts has planned for our Sun-
day night meetings are great, the only
trouble being that there is but one Sun-
day ina week. Charley McCaskill pro-
mises to deliver our “Handbooks” com-
plete with a Student Directory by the
middle of September. We expect our
missionary to Korea, Wm. P. Parker,
to visit us this year, and we are going
to show him some time when he comes.

Fellows, I could use up a bottle of ink

Big Success

Secretary Reports Active Interest on
Members’ Part.

When the plan of the Greater David-
son Club was presented it sounded fine.
or in the parlance of the day, ‘‘it listened
well.” “Then we began to wonder how
it would work out. Whether the club
would start off with enthusiasm; cool
down to a languid existence and dic an
early death: or would it really amount
to something. Well, it has more than
amounted to something for it is a genu-
ine, well proven success beyond the high-
est hopes of its founders, It is a live.
well running organization, getting up
more steam every day.

Now, the above mentioned statements
are not mere idle fantasies of an idle
brain, for they are borne out by many
witnesses, In fact, we are beginning te
think ‘that everyhody knows about the
Greater Davidson Club and if) you
glance over the remaining paragraphs
you will become convinced that its fame
has spread far and wide.

The humble scribe of this article
ought to know; for all this summer long
he has been receiving letters from the
members hot on the trail of some pros-
pect and he has turned the names over
to the office for catalogues and the like,
and then frequently tried a long range
shot himself. So the secretary knows.

The fellows themselves often com-
ment on the club and its activities ; so the
student body knows. When you remem-
ber that the office force and faculty
know you can easily see that everyone
around .about and connected with the
college knows. | am = not. sure about
Enoch but the next time 1 see him I will
put the question. You see the college
knows.

There has been one man on the road
this summer where heretofore there have
always been four, and everywhere he
goes he writes back about the activities
of the Greater Davidson Club. So the
road man knows (although he goes mar-
ried this week and may forget) and of
course all Fresh know.

So when we get together in Septem-
ber don’t let us forget what we can and
have done but use this summer's
a foundation to build greater achieve-
ments for the G. D.C. “There will be
400 of us and we want to work for the
aim of the club. And that aim, fellow
members, is this, lest you forget: “A
Bigger‘and a Better Davidson,” through

“The preservation of the hest tradi-
tions and highest ideals of the college in
the past.

“Greater loyalty and co-operation of
the students in all college activities.

“The wider extension of the college's
influence by student and alumni effort.”

The secretary hopes you have had a
fine summer and looks forward with
pleasure to seeing you the first day of the
term,

telling you about things that are going
to happen at Davidson because of the Y.
M. C. A. indoor athletics, student Sun-
day School classes, monthly receptions.
a well equipped lounging room, etc., etc.
But isn’t this enough to win your sup-
port for the “Y" program? And do you
know that YOU are the Y. M.C. A.
Read again some of our plans for the
year. Think what they mean to you
and the other fellow. ‘Then resolve to
do your part “heartily as unto the Lord
and not unto men.”
Yours for a year of work and happi-
ness,
(Signed) Dwight M. Chalmers,
President.

Where you see no good, silence is
;
best—Anon.

work as,

Alumni Athletic
Association

Big Time Commence-
ment. Plan Great Things for Athletics.

New Coach at Opening

Major L. B. Crayton, Class '15, Suc- Qld Boys Have
ceeds Coach Fetzer. Football
Prospects Very Favorable.

= This past commencement there was :
Right after commencement the men goodly gathering of old men on the Hill
who remained at Davidson were dismay- and from all appearances they put ina
ed to learn that Coach “Bill had) re- Very happy time reminiscing, meeting old
signed and was going to North Carolina friends and planning how they could
A and Eto take charge of athletics best help the college.” “Their activities
there. “The news spread and it) wasn't wound up ua great style ata banquet
long before letters began coming in from vesday evening which was a big suc-
the fellows inquiring as to the mew © from a cylinary standpoint as well
coach. At first we couldn't answer but? being “a feast of reason and flaw of
now a coach has been signed whose ap- soul. lhere were several actions taken
pointment has been met with enthusiam there that will be of particular interest
by all who have heard about it. He is ' the undergraduates so we will outline

the man that Coach “Bill” recommend- them here.
ed to follow him and we are sure he will | “Phe business part af the meeting: was
make a worthy successor to our great opened by the reading at the minutes of
ceach who is leaving us. the previous year and then the old offi-
cers were re-elected for another term.

Maj. 1... B. Crayton of Charlotte, No" n

C., is the way he is knowa now but back Vhese are M r R. M. Miller. Jr. of
in his college days at D.C. he was “Pete” Charlotte, president; Rev. B. R. Lacy
Crayton of the class of 1945. Here are DD. of Atlanta, vice-president, and
it few things about him so that when you Mr. BL. Jackson, of Davidson, secre-
arrive on the Hill this September you |TY- rhe stssoctation took jiction rec:
will know him at least. by reputation, ommendiag. that the alumni support the
He was end on the football team and college weekly publication, he David-
first base on the nine, both positions be. SCO both " interest and subscriptions
ing played in a star manner by. him. and this is bearing fruit in ain increased
After he graduated in ‘15 he went to number of subscriptions on the part of
Fishburn school in Virginia and coached the alumni, according to the business
there for two years, ‘This school is fae M@nager, who dropped in to see us a few
mous in Virginia for ita athletic teams days ago.

and while there Cravton turned out | “Ehen they took action te link up the
championship clubs, It ts quite a coinei- tlumni more closely with the athletic in-
dence that he succeeded Coach “Bil! terests of the college. An athletic com-
there and is now following him at Da- mittee, was elected and empowered to go
ahead ‘in this work.s “The plan adopted
and put into operation was sanctioned by
Dr. Douglas, faculty athletic represen-
tative, and so far it has given promise
of great things, “although still very
young. ‘The plan is simply this, Every
alumnus who so desires to join’ the
Alumni Athletic. Association and pay at
least a minimum fee of five dollars a
year, “This will entitle him to a ticket
that will admit him to all Davidson con-
tests. For some alumni this will mean
that they will get at least: part of their
pmoney back in seeing games but the vast
majority rarely see a contest. “Vhrough
: ‘ this association we hope to add at least
of any college in the South but prospects a thousand dollars a year to our athletic
‘ok good for a winning team, or at treasury and this will enable us to bring
east. one thatcwill give al fighting ac- one more football game to the FEL every
count of itself in the hardest season any fall: ejeht or ten more basketball panes
Red and Black eleven faced, It is a lite in the winter and to have about a dozen
tle carly to predict exactly about the baseball games every spring on Sprunt
cleven but here are some of the men who field. ‘The undergraduate deserves — to
will be on Sprunt field when Coach cee his college team in action more fre-
Crayton. calls for practice. Captain quently and that is what we are trying
Spann will be at quarter and as it hos our best to do. “Phe secretary and treas-
been said, Spann is a team in himself te rer, R. W. Miles, has yotten out a cir-
start with. “Then McAlister and Mas- cular letter to the alumni but of course
sey of last year's back field will be here it ig impossible to reach them all, ‘These
again and will give a good account of letters are beginning to get results and
themselves. Pitts Douglas (the Giant every day now ten or fifteen” dollars
Killer) will be better than ever this year comes in for this work but we have a
and McMasters at tackle needs no in- Jong way to go for that thousand.
troduction. Sam Brady at guard will Bye it can he done and here is a wav
be the same old reliable Sam. Hammett that the members of the G. D.C. can
who played tackle on Clemson last year he of peal service to the student. body.
looks good tous and “Strong Man” You have brothers, friends and relatie

Romfelt, uy out of the service, will who are alumni. See them at once, talk
again: wear avidson colors. Some of this to them and urge them to subscribe
last year’s scrubs are out for the team yt Jeast five dollars to the association.
and ho mistake this season. Of these Send the money to the treasurer at Da-
McFadden, the two Mileys, Cornelson. yidson and he will at once forward a
LaFar and Harris are the most promis: jyembership card. So far the subscrip-
ing. Besides these men mentioned there tions have ranged from five to one hun-
are other fellows in school who have had dred dollars. You fellows can turn the
fpothall anne and out of one uN- trick and help in this matter so that our
red and seventy-five Freshmen we will teams will be better equipped and that
get a wealth of athletic material. So we will have more games right here on
rrospects look favorable and all of Us ¢his old Hill

want to back the team with all of our

interest and enthusiasm.

vidson.

When the war broke out in) 1917
Coach Crayton went into the service and
was first lieutenant in the Piedmont bat-
tery that was recruited in the country
near Davidson. So he went to France
as a First: Heutenant in’ the Thirtieth
Division, but his qualities as a leader
were so marked that he rapidly rose te
the rank of Major, being one of’ the
youngest majors in the A. FE. F. He re-
turned to this country in the spring and
will be here when college opens next
ironth.

We have about the hardest schedule

One other way you can help the -ath-
letic situation, Get in touch with your
home paper and sce if they will not run

She—Would you leave your home for our athletic stuff. If it is a live paper
me?” He—“T'd leave a baseball game thev will he glad to do so, for our news
in the ninth-inning with the score a tie.” is “live.” and some of the largest papers
Philadelphia Public Ledger. ‘in the South have said they will be glad

Football Schedule

Sept. 20—Davidson vs. Guilford at
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Sept, 27—Davidson vs. Wake Forest
at Wake Forest, N. C.

Oct. 4—Davidson vs.
_ Clemson, S$. C.

Oct. 11—Davidson vs.
and Lee at Lexington, Va.

Oct. 18—Davidson vs, University ot
South Carolina at Columbia, S. C.

Oct. 25—Davidson vs. V. M. L
Lexington, Va.

Nov. 1—Davidson vs. Georgia lech
at’ Atlanta, Ga.

November $8—Davidson North
Carolina A. & E, at Winston-Salem,
N.C.

Nov, 22—Davidson vs. Presbyterian
College of South Carolina at Davidson,
N.C.

Nov. 27—Dzirvidson vs. Furman at
Greenville. S.C.

Clemson at

Washington

at

Vs,

REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS

The Library, always well kept, will
look like a new building inside when the
boys return, “The walls have been kal-
semined and the tables freshened up.
New oscillating, desk fans will add to
the comfort of the fellows while they
peruse the magazines and daily papers.
New furniture has been purchased’ ior
Chambers building and new plumbing is
being provided for North Wing Cham-
hers, ‘The dormitory windows have been
washed and all Qoors scrubbed and all
rooms disinfected. ‘The plumbing has
been reset. and considerable improve-
ments made in the Chemical Laboratory.
The college house facing on Main street,
formerly occupied by Dr. J. L. Doug:
las, has been completely overhiuled. for
Colonel, Mueller. This now is one of
the most attractive homes in tewn.
Early in June the College purchased the
Alexander hause, next to Mr. Jackson's,
which is now being worked over for
Prof. and) Mrs. Woed. This house.
when completed, will) be modern and
comfortable in every respect. The Bank
of Davidson has purchased new office
furniture and is having the same install-
ed now. ‘This long needed improvement
will be appreciated by the boys.

TENT MEETING.

The most interesting event of -the
town life during the summer was the
union evangelistic meeting held the lat-
ter part of August in a tent pitched on
the tennis courts in the grove. Rev, L.
D. ‘Thompson, pastor of First Methodist
Church, Statesville, did the preaching
and Rev. Mr. Allen, Granite. Falls, N.
C., led the singing.

‘Tent prayer meetings were held for
a week hefore the meeting opened and a
census of the town, including, of course.
the mill villages, was taken to find out
just who were professing Christians and
personal workers were appointed to
urge these and all to attend and take
active part in the meetings. There are
90 who made profession of their faith in
Christ as their Saviour, Many others
reconsecrated themselves. It was a
preat meeting.

to run it. -“This year we want to let pco-
ple know that we are on the map. When
you find out about this please let the sec-
retary of the Greater Davidson Club
know in order that he can send them the
necessary “dope” from time to time.

We are planning a new era in athlet-
ics for Davidson and every fellow is in
it heart and soul. Don't forget to boost
this to your alumni friends and we will
have such funds to work with that we
will gladden Coach Crayton's heart and
show him we are right behind him from
the drop of the hat. Yours for a greater
Davidson.
