The DAVIDSONIAN. Sept. 17, 1919

vust Opened

WE HAVE JUST OPENED

A CLOTHING STORE

At 203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.

We wish to extend a special invitation to our friends and
customers of Davidson N.C. We carry a full stock of Suits,
Hats and Overcoats for men and young men, Serges, Worsted,

-Flannels, and other materials of equal value. Newest Styles
and Models, direct from manufacturer to wearer. Workman-
ship and colors guaranteed.

Out of the high rent district, other expenses small. So drop
in at your earliest convenience and be convinced that we can

save you from $10.00 to $15.00 on every suit.

Make our store headquarters while in Charlotte.

Lingle Clothing Company
203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N. CG.
B. A. Lingle Phone 3113 D. A. Presley

| ej
YOUNG WIFE'S FIRST LESSON
S and Character are Marked Features in Our

A Victrola In Your Home The newly a@arried man came home NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

fram his office happy. He was greeted
as newly married men are grected, with

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced a kiss, and this, in fashion of his kind. the eminence of elegance, and the tailoring is handled in so smart |
: he returned with interest. a manner as to insure absolute shape-permanance and grace in
by the Greatest Artists “Of. course we shall go out to din- fit and drape. h a
, , . . ser, darling,” he remarked. e welcome a visit to this young men’s section where the
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music “Yes, dearest,” replied the happy fall styles are displayed.
and Everything in Music young woman, “SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK”

“But one of these days we shall have

) a dinner here, darling, shall we not, of HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS
F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE | |r citer sli | THE TATE-BROWN CO.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C. am getting along famously - with my CHARLOTTE

cooking lessons.” )
it ee ce ter cnet meget semen taeenmeennnsemendt “And it will be such a change,” he

continued, “from the monotonous fare
of the restaurants.”
| There were more kisses. jesmerecs - -- pee ee awe —_—

“Did you take cooking lessons today,

“Who Builds Your \\ xi 8h ie wn
CHARLOTTELAUNDRY

There was pride in her tone as she
Oldest and best established laundry in the

replied. ‘““Teday, dearest, 1 learned
Carolinas, will again resume business on

Ci) th @ 99 how to boil water.”—Ohio Observer,
OLNESS —_
campus through its representatives, Cassell

IMORE WAR RISK INSURANCE
& McCaskill. They are carrying one of

Pry rririy

' GEMS.

An im portant question for every man ; A few of the inquiries received by the

Bureau of War Risk Insurance:

: 1 ot, This letter is written on a ocean
to decide. of love with every wave a kiss.
1 2. Dear President, please send me my
: money or my husband. Some one told
Let Tarymore help you. A full line me to write you and tell you my life's
. history.
| of all wool fabrics, latest models, all af [ 3. Tama poor widow woman and all
l have is in the front.

guaranteed. 1 4 Dear Mr. President, if you don't

send my money I will have to write to
| | Uncle Sam himself.
| 1 §. Is my son living or dead? If so,

Matthews & Wilson, |/">. ==.»

man holding down his old job might do
well to marry her, says the Rock Hill

Representatives 16 Chambers Record.

the best dry-cleaning establishments and are

in a position to give you the best of service.
Laundry will be called for and delivered the
same week. Satisfaction guaranteed. Your
patronage will be appreciated. f
“OLDEST, LARGEST, BEST

Cassell & McCaskill

The selfish person is the one who
wants the thing we want for ourselves.

Porro tyr rr I II PI III PI II III II a re

