4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

Pounded by Class of ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cente per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

rer rr rrr rrr rer errr rer rrr errr rrr rere ser err e ses Editor-in-Chief
besneneceeevecccenees

BF AR BBELE. ociiicclilocucccceceseevueueesereecubenereets Managing Editor
3. R BOULWARE, Jr SII daaignimont Editor
L. B. SCHENCK... -.ssccevseseresereeceereeetee

Fe a cece eeeseceeseenseeeeseeeeentes Batt

'e . ic OPPS EE TET SSCP ESEee rere ee eee eT eee eee eee ees Tixehan or
a MLL. MRS: Forum. Editor
& 4% Spence... .-.Campus Editor
L: ¢ CALHOUN if. C. A. Editor
ee DUN UITIIITINIIEENI IES 8 SUITE SIDI Social Editor
$M! GASTON ite. Literary Editor
K 7 SAS EW AINE Tee Teer Perr rer rr rre rer rr resi etree ress Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D. L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHBLU
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

W. W. MOORE

J. M, RICHARDS
J. Cc. WOOL

WwW. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP

R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

N. BOOKER
T. L. LISTON

BE.
R.
R. R. CRAIG

Cc. E, CUNNINGHAM
J. M. GILMER

J. P. PRICE

A. C, SUMMBRS

i : . H. Smith, D..H. Ogden, C. B. San-
Additonal reporters for this issue are: A. D. King, L. J. Bray, H

., A. P. Ormaad, W. A. Gamble, J. H. David.

ders, J. T. Wilkes, Jc., A. P. Orm Business Manager

i ... Assistant Manager

. Circulation Manager

Assistant Managers

see ooseces

eee e re eerecreescvceens

EDITORIAL

Unpardonable slackers, high dice for the man who crowns him first 2
The freshman who at the end of the third quarter put his colors in his

pocket.

The man who wanted to spot Davidson twenty-one and bet on State.

It is hard to believe there are any such men in college. May they repent
before they meet with their just reward.

Fifteen for Colonel Mueller. He has the Davidson pep through and through
and we're all behind him.

The difference between success and failure is one word, the difference be-
tween “what you can get out of college” and “what you can get out of af college.

We suggest that the band carry along those, elongated bass horns even if no-
body plays them. People will think they are just stopping for air anyhow.

Winston Bound

N to Winston-Salem, one hundred per cent strong. This game has always

been an annual event for Davidson and every student is expected to attend.

We lost last Saturday, but what of it? No team has ever put up a
gamer scrap against such heavy odds or shown a finer losing spirit.

Carolina can be beat. .V. M. I. has proved that beyond any doubt. Ac-
cording to comparative scores we are as good as they are, but win or lose, let’s
be there and put the hungs behind the team. You won’r be accommodating any-
body. Winston will show you a good time and when we win and the game goes
down in history, you'll be proud to say you were an eye-witness. Get the coin
somewhere ; borrow, beg, steal or save, but anyhow watch Davidson win!

Davidson Spirit

ATURDAY'S exhibition was the greatest demonstration of true school
S spirit seen at Davidson College since long before any of the present student
body first darkened its venerated doors. Starting with the parade, which
made a very creditable impression on the Queen City populace, the whole affair
was one. well backed up by the traditional Davidson pep.

As to the team, nothing else was expected, and a harder fight could not have
been possible. The rally against Georgia Tech was declared by some the most
spectacular evidence of gameness they had ever witnessed. Well, they should
have seen that touchdown in the fourth quarter. Putting across a sixty-yard
drive with the score thirty to nothing takes something just any team hasn't got.
That one quarter was worth three trips to Charlotte. to any man who had the
least bit of scrap in him at all.

And then the student body. It didn’t take any manhood to get out and yel
1 before the game started, anybody could do that. But when the score was get-
ting lopsided and everything looked bad, that’s when it counted. . Right up un-
til the last the band kept playing and the men kept yelling, showing what they
really had in them. Were you in it? [Ef not, be there Saturday and show Win-
ston-Salem and the whole South that your college has “got the stuff.”

Charlotte Wakes Up

E have often heard complaints about Charlotte support, but the time

W has now come to apologize. From a city the size of Charlotte little

could be expected that was not done for the complete success of the day.

For the week preceding the game the papers were generously giving the necessary
publicity, and helping most effectively to advertise the affair. .

The local organizations were also doing their part. They were planning for
the entertainment of the visitors and to those who were present it is needless to
say that their efforts met with great success. Especially appreciated was the re-
ception held at the Manufacturers Club.

The loyal supporters of Davidson, particularly the Queens College girls,
were heard from until the final whistle blew. This is the kind of support we need
and the kind we appreciate. Arrangements had also been made to have the avid
ator drop streamers over the field, but his machine was out of order and this part
of the program had to be dispensed with.

Yes, good citizens of Charlotte, apologies are in order. We had a good
time and thank you for it. ' ,

| OPEN FORUM |

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please

feel at liberty to do so. Let's have more
i discussion, pro or con, by the students

on college problems from now on.)

Wants Social Life Developed at
Davidson

Senior Speaking is approaching and

i i ici in.: fessors’ letters.
Sporting Editoraiwe who do not actively participate in:
Alumnt Ealtor|the event are supposed to enjoy it as ,cants were good students and had ad-

‘dances are enjoyed at other colleges.
‘However, in the whole college not one
man out of ten will have a girl on the

Hill, and to most of the men not in |cants had good characters and were good |

fraternitics this event will be little more
than a possible slackening up in the
regular routine to hear the orators of the
class of 1920 solve the problems of the
day. ’

We will have only ten days at home
Christmas and having had no, social life
for four months, we are going to get
vur fill of what is generally termed “a
good time,” but which is pretty hard on
us physically if not morally. We can-
not prevent the possible harm of these
ten.days, buc we might alleviate it by
making our college life more interesting
by an occasional break, with a social
function that all the students might be
able to take part in and not a limited.
number,

Is it as essential that a man be able
to be congenial with girls as it is for
girls to learn the same art with men?
If this part of a man's education is neg-
,lected—why has this neglect so long ex-
isted ?
‘present conditions is the expense to the
‘student who invites the girl.

In non-sectarian colleges dances add
|More attraction to the social periods, but
j1 fear such a thing is out of the ques-
licn in Davidson, which has never yet
departed from the strictest rules of the
‘Presbyterian Church. But would it be
-pessible to have one dance on the Hill
‘each term, if that dance was well con-
;ducted? The men who really want to
dance go to Charlotte, beyond the super-
[vision of the college.

It certainly seems like bad system for
a man to have to cut himself off en-
tirely from having a good time in civil-
ized country like this. When we were
training our men to fight we gave them
everything necessary to keep up their
morale, including a reasonable amount
of social life for every soldier from the
private to the highest officer. Here we
are training not to fight, but to live and
.0 teach others to live, but conditions per-
chaps unavoidable prevent the larger per-
‘centage of us from meeting and talking
to girls as well as overcoming bashful-
ness in a number of us. Let's hear more
discussion of this matter. Titus.

Rhodes Scholarship

May: I be permitted to write a few
words regarding Davidson College and
the Rhodes Scholarships? My proposi-
tion is that Davidson College has not
taken enough interest in its students in
regard to this matter. My proofs are
threefold.

First. W. P. Mills, of South Caro-
lina, and myself are the only represen-
tatives Davidson has sent during the 14
years of the scholarship. This, when,
Davidson is educating the highest type
of men of the South and giving them the
finest type of education in the country !

Secondly. When I applied 1 received
no advice and encouragement from the
faculty. I had to discover all I could
‘about the scholarships unaided by those
who should have had an interest in such
matter, Furthermore, when I had se-
cured the appointment the college was
so dilatory in sending my records that
U was, I think, the last American to ap-
ply for a college at Oxford. 1 had to
request the authorities of the University
to change my college after my assign-
ment as the first college in which I was
acepted was for many reasons undesir-
able.

Thirdly. As one of the committee to
select Rhodes scholars for Georgia, I
had ocasion to note the difference be-
tween the papers from Davidson and
those from other colleges.

The Davidson papers were the last to
arrive. They came in separate batches,
and the second batch: arrived after Oc-
tober 5. They were not sent to the sec-
retary whose name was plainly printed

One good reason for this with |

on the application. They had to be re-

turned because incomplete, and some of .

the committee did not see the Davidson

papers until the day before the date of .

selection.

Finally, the letters from the college
authorities have much weight with the
committee. Those from University of
Georgia, Emory et al, went into details.
Told what they knew of the men, were
explicit in regard to their leadership and
scholarship and athletic interest. Told
of their honors and what those honors
meant. Not so with the Davidson pro-
They said the appli-

mirable characters, and a few other
‘qualities.
All seventeen of the Georgia appli-

‘students, We wanted to know whercin
‘one man stood out above his fellows.

It is my opinion that Davidson for its
size develops more men of the Rhodes
‘Scholarship timber than any college or
‘university in America. It is my earnest
(desire that someone connected with the
‘college will take enough interest in its
‘promising students to put this matter
before them, and then to see that their
papers are as full and fair as those from
any other college. B. R. Lacy, Jr.

Our Flag

During 1916 and 1917 the imperial
German government refused to respect
:the “Stars and Stripes,” our American
flag, and sunk our ships bearing this
‘sacred emblem of our country. We went
to war, fought, bled and died that this
flag which upholds the ideals of a demo-
cratic country should not perish from
the earth. For the slightest insult to
the colors pro-Germans and Germans in
this country then were subject to mob
viclence and federal punishment. We
stood at attention listening to the Star-
Spangled Banner to honor its being
raised to float for us while we were serv-
,ing oun country and when the shadows
of evening were nearing we again stood
at attention while “to the colors” sound-
ed and “Old Glory” was lowered and
,folded for keeping at night.

Have we forgotten all this—the
things that have meant life and death
to us—the standard that meant demac-
racy or autocracy? We have certainly
forgotten something. Old Glory was
raised upon our flag ‘pole some two weeks
ago and has withstood the winds and
tains day and night every hour since.
This is not the only place that this oc-
,currence is present, but we find it in
our cities, on public buildings, etc. It is
generally agreed that we should not stop
eur work as civilians to salute the flag as
\*t is hoisted, or stand at attention as our
National Anthem is played, except in
audiences or public gatherings, but it is
agreed nationally that we respect our
flag and it certainly is disrespectful to
allow it to stay up over night and to be
water soaked and wrapped about the
staff, E, Pivratsus Unum.

1GRADED SCHOOL HONOR
; ROLL MONTH OF OCTQBER

—_

Second Grade—Meta Brown, Chris-

tine Mooney, Edith Robinson, Oscar
Crews, J. K. Justice. Cc

|_ Third Grade—Elizabeth Thompson,
jEdna Varnadore, Susie Jackson, Daisy
Caldwell, Leona Robinson, Sophie
Cathey.

Fourth Grade—James Caldwell, John
D. McConnell, Connie Cauthen.

Fifth Grade—Morris Sigmon.

Sixth Grade—Ursula Abbott, Mary
Hamilton, Kitty Martin, Graham John-
ston, Sidney Proctor.

Seventh Grade—Ruth Johnston, Sara
Barnette.

Eighth Grade—Sophia Richards.

Ninth Grade—Lera Hobbs,

Tenth Grade—Martha Hamilton,
Inez Christenbury, Mary Blythe.

Eleventh Grade—Sarah Hamilton,
Annie Lois Barnette.

BIBLE CLASSES
TAKE VACATION

Bible classes were held on a few floors
last Sunday morning but it was generally
understood that there would be no
meeting, on account of the fact that
jeverybody had been to the game and
was up late Saturday night.

Every floor will have a class next |college faculty,

Sunday at the regular hour and every-
body is urged to come out.

(Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading

college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish news that will intercst all who
are acquainted with college life. The
editor reserves the right, however, to
‘criticise, misquote or burn any and all
exchanges).

MERCER UNIVERSITY,

Mercer's -heroes who fought against
the Hun in France and the submarine
in the Atlantic have organized a club
to be known as the Overseas Club.

The purpose is to foster and promote
the interests of Mercer always; to up-
hold and maintain one hundred per cent
Americanism, to keep alive the memories
of our common experiences in the great .
war.—The Orange and Black.

MARYVILLE COLLEGE (TENN)

The Tar Heel Club of Maryville mec.
last weck for the purpose of reorgani-
zation. It is said that there is a lively
bunch from the Old North State on
she Hill this vear and they are planning
to have a gocd time from now on.—The
iHighland Echo.

CLEMSON.

—_—_—,

Last Saturday evening the Cosmopoli-
tan Club, composed of out-of-state men,
held a banquet at the Y. M. C. A.
cafeteria, which was the first of its kind
ito be given on the campus this year.——

‘The Tiger.
i

OGLETHORPE.

The mosquitoes have been raiding
some of the buildings, in fact such a
horde raided the hall last Sunday that
ithe studenis had to defend themselves
| with tennis raquets, umbrellas and ‘shoes.
‘One was even reported to have gone
into a trunk in search of heavy under-
; Wear on account of cold weather.—The

i

. Petrel,

RUTGERS COLLEGE (N. J.)

A campaign to revive college spirit is
,on at Rutgers and each class is required
ito report for cheering and singing.—The
Targum.

GA. TECH.

The cost of the trip to Pittsburgh for
the Tech band, which included thirty-
two men, was $2.200. This money was
raised by selling tags and donations from
outside sources.—The Technique.

i
:
!
t
t

| UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA.

The “Counsellors,” a club in the Law
Department, has made: its appearance
as one of the foremost clubs of the Uni-
versity. A Mathematics Club has also
been organized.—The Red and Black.

TRUE.

You can’t always judge a man by his
friends, but you can invariably judge
him by his lack of friends—Furman
Hornet.

{ .
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY.

The University is to be host to the
Southern Oratorical League next spring.
Representatives from Southern univer-
‘sities will be present to take part.—-The
| Kentucky Kernel.

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE (PA.)

Lafayette has sixteen new men on the
bringing new teaching
forces to practically every department in
the college—The Lafayette.
