The Why of the “Y”

As we go through college we usually
accept things as they are; arguing that
because a thing exists, therefore it
ought to exist. Do’ we ever stop and
ask ourselves. “Why do colleges have
literary societies?’ Why does David-
son engage in intercollegiate athletics?
Or what is the purpose of a college Y.
M. C. A.? There must be some rea-
son for the existence of every organiza-
tion, and the purpose of this article is to
partly account for the Young Men’s
Christian Association at Davidson Col-
lege.

"A student hardly arrives at Davidson
before he is confronted with a veritable
pandemonium of conflicting interests—
each claiming for supremacy in his life.
Scholarships, athletics, publications, fra-
ternities, and literary societies are
placed before him in their brightest col-
ors, and he must choose how he will
divide his.time between them, Each
one has its own particular advantages
and all fully repay a man for the effort
the expends upon them. And so a stu-
dent chooses his activities, and arranges
his schedule to accommodate them. But,
wait a minute——there is no place on,
this program for Bible and mission
study, for Christian service and personal
spiritual development. Ic is here that
the “Y” intervencs. {t recognizes that
the only sure basis of every activity is
vigorous Christian character, and it
avorks to supply this basis. Yes, it is
only by putting first things first that
men arrive at any real success, The
Y. M. CG. A. therefore ‘says to college
men, “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God
and His righteousness and all these
things shall be added unto you.”

Most men who arrive at Davidson
have already acquired a number of
friends and know the meaning and
value of true friendship. The college
“Y” secks the fullest development of
friendship between man and man and
between the several classes, at the same
time striving to promote brotherhood
among all men, But the “Y" has a
special friend around whom all its ac-
tivities move and whom it works to
bring every man into intimate contact
with. Most fellows have met Jesus
Christ before their college days -but very
few are’ personally intimate with Him.
They do not know the Christ who ac-
companies a man through every activ-
ity, athletics, class room work, public
speaking, and all. ‘There is no greater
tragedy in life than for a man to enter
upon his life’s work in God's world
and breathing His air, without the
close fellowship and guidance of Christ.
The Y. M. C. A. at Davidson would
be false to itself and to its purpose if it
did not in every way point to the One
who waits only for a man to open the
door before “He will come in unto him
and sup with him.”

The other purposes of the ¥Y. M. C.
A. are but offshoots of this higher ob-

ject and need only to be mentioned. of the band th

There are the Bible study groups under
student leaders, in which every man is
given an opportunity for the fullest de-
velopment. In the World Forum meet-
ings men learn the real meaning of
“Missionary” and get a right conception
of the great fields of opportunity now
presented in the world. The Y. M. C.

A. furnishes officers and teachers to six) DATA FROM

nearby Sunday Schools and also engages
in playground and social work. The

a
ce rr

‘Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, May 28, 1919

Volunteers Wide Awake
Plan for Next Year

‘The Volunteer Band almost surprised
its old members by
Spring. Last Fall, in common with all
other similar organizations, the Band
was necessarily inactive. But this
Spring, with C. A. Woods as president
and a live Secretary in Dave Roberts,
the Band made up for lost time.

Interest in various phases of work
was stirred up, and three or four dele-
gations were sent out. A record num-
ber of students went to the State Vol-
unteer Conference at Guilford College.
It was an inspiring convention, and
every delegate got a better idea of the
urgent need for missionaries that will
come in the next few years.

The billion dollars drive for missions
that is going to take place in the next
few months will put the various mis-

sion boards in a position to make alcu
ber of| these statements have been taken bac

But| later, and. we have noticed no discour-

much needed increase in the num
missionaries in the foreign field.
men and women must prepare for the
work; and it is one of the main pur-
poses of a volunteer band to present the
call to college students and keep their
goal before them. .

The Davidson Band has_ increased
from eight, at the beginning of the term,
to eighteen, who have signed the card,
and a number of others who have not
yet decided. The new president, Dave
Roberts, has already made plans for ex-
tension next year, and there is every
promise of Davidson's having one of the
most active and progressive bands in
the State.

MINISTERIAL BAND
SMALL BUT “PEPPY”

The Ministerial Band has during the
past term had a very successful year
It is true that the numbers ‘have not
been as large as they have

its growth this

ever happened out here.

jured.
in the pase| Press,

The Korean Revolution.
(Contined from Page 7)

things political, but we do ask you to
join with us in prayer for those of our

friends who are in jail awaiting trial at
this time, and for those who have en-
dured physical suffering. Pray that
whatever the outcome may be they may
only be strengthened in their faith and
trust in their Savior.

A word in closing about this as to
vur safety. While there has been one
case in which a foreigner was badly
bruised and beaten by the gendarmes,
and three or four cases in which ladies
have been insulted and pushed very

THE ROAD TO MASTERY.
‘ The road which leads to mastery, to
power in any line is not an easy one. It
is rough, rocky, thorny—a road lined
with difficulties which will test
-powers of will and persistence, but it
pays to travel it.

If you would feel the thrill of success

lin law, in music, in medicine, in art, in

science, in business, in agriculture, in in-
vention—in any calling, the thrill felt
by the conqueror, the man who has
reached his goal, this is the road you
must travel.

This is the only road which you can

roughly, there is absolutely no danger jjogk back upon with pride, the only road

to us, | think, and these were excep-
tional cases for which apology has been
given. Of course it is not advisable to
itinerate at the present time, and very
little has been attempted, though we
have gone out to the nearby churches.
While in some of the Japanese papers,
as I said, we missionaries have been ac-
sed as being at the bottom of all this,

tesy on the part of our Japanese friends,
nor have the Japanese people _ risen
against the Koreans—except possibly in
one or two instances, and it seems in
these cases that they were under police
orders, and were only aiding the police
in trying to keep order. It scems a
pity that the soldiers were called in, for
much -unnecessary cruelty followed, and
many innocent bystanders suffered as
much or more than those who were
guilty.

Last Wednesday there occurred one
of the most dteadful accidents that has
Dr. and Mrs.
Bell and Mr. Knox of Kwangju, and
Mr. P. S. Crane, of Mokpo, were going
from Seoul south in an automobile

owned by Dr. Bell, when they were
struck at a railway crossing, and Mrs.

Bell and Mr, Crane were _ instantly
killed, and Mr. Knox was badly in-
In a statement in today’s Seoul
Dr. Bell explains that they had

but this has been due to the unsettled|been on the alert all the moining for

conditions.

Nevertheless, under the leadership of
a capable president the band has had
¢ome very interesting and helpful meet-
ings regardless of the fact that every
one has been unusually busy this spring.
The attendance at the meetings has been
very good considering the fact that it

has been nearly impossible to arrange af

time so that there would be no conflicts.
‘The band has been very fortunate in
having some interesting talks by visit-
ors, among whom were representatives
from Columbia and Union Seminaries.
Mr. Miles, as in the other organizations
on the hill, has been a great help to
the Ministerial Band. Much credit is
duc him for helping the band in many
ways. As yet no definite plans have
been made for next year. It is hoped
that a program committee can be ar-
ranged and a live program gotten up.
This will mean more to the members
an anything else. As
there will be a large Freshman Class
next year the band should get back to
its old pre-war status in numbers. If
every one will only get back of the
band and do his part there will be no
doubt of a success for next year.

LIBRARY FOR
1918-19.

student body by popular subscription! Monthly, Weekly and Quarterly

also supports a missionary in Korea, who
is an alumnus of Davidson.

For next year the Y. M. C. A. will) Books purchased
have its head Robert W. Miles, Jr.. al Books donated and catalogued...
graduate of Davidson College and of Books donated and not catalogued
In the capacity of, Total number of books added...

Union Seminary.

Magazines taken ........... 74
Daily papers ..............0-5 12
sec e eens eeeee 252

180

40

472

General Secretary, he will supervise the] Books on hand, May 15, 1919. . .26,602

activities of the association, will expand) Direct users of the Library

332

its program and help the students solve| Circulation, for two weeks or less 6,972

their individual and group problem:.| Average number of books per user

But why continue this recital? Every
year the Y. M. C. A. finds more work
to do than it is able to handle, and
every year it is the means of leading and
training men in the Christ-like _ life,
and happy one.

BLAME LOCATED.

21
CORNELIA SHAW,
May 15, 1919. Librarian.

“Cheer up, man,” said Murphy to
Dooley. ‘“Yez look as if yez didn't have
a frind in the whole wurrld.’ “Oi
haven't neither.” Dooley groaned.
“G'wan,” cried Murphy heartily. “If

She—“I wonder why men lie so?” ‘lit ain't money yez want to borrow Oi’m
He—“Because their wives are so in-|as good a frind as ever yez had.”—Ex-

quisitive.” —Exchange.

change.

trains and had crossed the track several
times, but at this particular crossing he
was prevented from sceing the train by
a hood on the left of the auto. It seems
so terrible. Mrs. Bell was the sister of
Mr. Bull of Kunsen, and leaves tvo
children, about twelve and five, respect-
ively. Mrs. Crane is the daughter of
Mr. Rowland, and they had two little
babies, the oldest about three years old.
News from Seoul today that Mr. Knox
is much better, and Dr. Bell was practi-
cally unhurt, though the shock to him
was necessarily very great, and we fear
he cannot live lonz now. How our
hearts do go out in sympathy to the
afflicted families at this time! We can-
not understand why this should be al-
lowed to happen, but we know that
God's ways are not our ways, and we
can only turn to Him. At such times,
indeed, blessed is the man whose God is
the Lord.

1 took Jean down to Seoul last week
and had her tonsils and adenoids taken
out. She came out all right, and is do-
ing finely. We hope this means. more
freedom from colds in the future. We
have written for reservations on the S.
S. “Nanking,” leaving Yokohama on
June 19th, and hope to be in San Fran-
cisco seventeen days later. We will go
to see my wife's father, mother. and sis-
ter at Los Angeles, and hope to come
East later. We both want to do study-
ing while at home, but have not defi-
nite'y decided on our plans yet.

Do not forget to remember the work
here in your prayers. We do not forget
you there in the homeland. May God
bless the labor in which each of you is
engaged.

Sincerely your friend,

WM. P. PARKER.

BEST KIND OF PLAY IS WORK.

One of the best kinds of play is work.|-

Many of the elements of play enter into
work ‘if it is performed in the right
spirit. The most satisfying forms of play
are those in which interest is excited;
competition, with desire to succeed and
accomplish some definite end, makes the
game worth playing. Work is fatiguing
and distasteful when it is lacking in these
elements.

which ends in enduring satisfaction.

SOUR GRAPES.

Edith—“Jack told me I was so inter-
esting and so beautiful.”

Marie—“And yet you will trust your-
self for life with a man -who begins de-
ceiving you even during his courtship.” —
Toronto Telegram.

your

HONOR HOLL FOR SESSION
1918-19.

Post-Graduate — McCloy,
98.00; Craig, A. R., 96.67.

Senior—McKeithan, L. B., 97.20;
Woods, E. A., 97.00; Pharr. N. Y.,
96.80; Dunlap, W. T., 95.80; Lilly, E.
G., 95.20.

Junior—Chalmers, D. M.. 96.67;
Calhoun, L. G., 95.50; Askew, S. H.,
95-14.

Sophomores——Brown, C. K., 96.30;
Cumming, W. P., 95-84; Cassell, J. E.,
95.67.

Freshmen—Richards, J. M., 96.77;
Price, J. P., 95.85. °

J. M. Richards has highest grade in
Freshman Class and receives the Alumni
Medal.

s. T.,

A dime to many a young American
does not mean two nickles or 10 pen-
nies. Money to American youth has
value only in that it immediately buys
something. Money spent unwisely is
gone forever; money put in Thrift

Stamps and W. §. S. returns with more.

BOYS! Now that hot
weather is here, keep
cool by wearing Svzoors-
Schaefer Kool Kloths
made especially for you,
from the very latest
patterns.

We guarantee satisfaction on

every deal.

GILBERT & McARN

REPRESENTATIVES
No. 13 CHAMBERS

in religion.

college education?

be sent free.

Address:

After Vacation, What >
To College of Course!

are familiar with Davidson athletic record;
know of the success of her debating teams;
have heard of her beautiful campus;

have doubtless thought of the fact that ‘‘Pep’’
and unbounded college spirit, such as character-
izes Davidson students, can live only in whole-
some campus conditions.

are acquainted with Davidson alumni in places of
responsibility and trust in politics, in business, and

BUT do you know about the 20 courses Davidson offers; the
entrance requirements; the assignment of rooms; the cost of a

Catalogue containing this and other information will

DAVIDSON COLLEG, Davidson, N. C.

_ . -seuscpucetereameeeweeeeeeeees _secsese:. 065:

FOUR HUNDRED STUDENTS
