—

& & AdAad

JAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

WILDCATS GET NEW SUITS.

Last Thursday saw the Wildcats shed
their old skins and doll up in brand
new grey ones. Among those who were
fortunate in getting new suits were
Johnson, Ratchford, Boswell. Sample,
Cassell, Miller, Spann, Richards,
Miley, Clark, Currie, Murray.

These new suits have the insignia on
the sleeve and a stripe up the breeches
seams, which give them a very pleasing
effect.

New Era In Y. M. C. A.
Work Inaugurated

Every Effort Being Made to Secure
Permanent Secretary.

The “Y” vesper service last Sunday
was doubly interesting, as it included
not only the first meeting under the new
cabinet. but also an important talk by

Dr. Arbuckle.

Dr. Arbuckle, on getting a “Y”
tary here next year, ;

Dr. Arbuckle, who spoke first. said
that he was glad to hear that the stu-
dents had already expressed their desire
to have a “Y" secretary and that secre-
tary to be Mr. Miles. if possible. But
we cannot expect to get a secretary here
without having an organization of di-
rectors that would handle the financial
end of the Y, M. C. A. in a business-
like way. Vhis next year we will ‘have
unusually large expenses in order to get
the proper equipment. “Phe movie ma-
chine, the piano, and the reading reom
fiirniture will have to he bought if we
wish to! keep them, A board of direc-
tors is necessary to handle this. This
board of control, or board of directors,
is to be composed of two faculty mem-
bers who will hold their office two years,
and two faculty members elected for one

-year. From the student body, there will
be chosen two members from the rising
Senior class, to hold office for one. year,
and two members from the rising Junior
class, to hold office for two years.

The election of officers to these posi-
tions was held immediately after Dr.
Arbuckle’s talk. The following men
were elected: From the faculty, Dr.
Arbuckle and Coach Fetzer, for two
years; Professor Reed and Mr. Jack-
son, for one year; from the student
body, S. H. Askew and W. B. Sulli-
van, from the rising Senior class, and
J. R. Boulware and L. B. Schenck, from
the rising Junior class.

After the elections, Dwight Chal-
mers, the new Y. M. C. A. president,
addressed the Y. M. C. A. in behalf of
the new cabinet. Conditions in David-
con since nineteen-seventcen, said Chal-
mers, have been different from the pre-
ceding vears, especially last fall. The
work of the Y. M. C. A, has also been
affected along .with the college. But
it. has a splendid opportunity now be-
fore it in the building up of campus life
and ideals as the college returns to its
normal status. Just what, someone may
ask, is the sphere of usefulness of the
Y. M. C. A.? It gives personal in-
sniration and power. It is a school for
the study of social and missionary prob-
lems and the problems of life. It has

(Continued on page 6)

secre-

Glee Club Making
A Great “Rep”

Royally Entertained at Statesville and|Currie Also Pitched Fine Ball.

Hickory.
a

The Glee Club left Monday morn-
ing. March 30, for its second trip of
this term, giving a performance at
Mitchell College, in Statesville; Mon-
day night, and at Hickory the following
night.

Upon arriving at Statesville Monday
morning the members of the ctub were
placed itt various homes of the city to be
entertained by the young ladies, which
was most royally done, and, to say the
least. was greatly appreciated by the en-
tire club, A reception was given in the
afternoon to the members and a few re-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 9, 1919.

Burrow’s Delivery Too

Much For Wildcats
His
Support Poor.

Last Saturday afternoon the David-
son “Red Soxs” were defeated by the
delegation trom A. & FE., at Gastonia,
$too. The condition of the field made
it difficult to distinguish between a _base-
ball game and a mud battle. As the
score will indicate, the game was fea-
tured chiefly by a pitehers’ battle.
“Buck” Currie pitched a steady ganic,
allowing only four hits and walking
but two men.

Sad to relate, Burrows, the left-hand
ed twirler for A. & EL, obtained the
Wildcats’ “Angora” from the first. tn

turned overseas soldiers, by the girls} the third inning, Cassell singled, being

of the college, ‘This proved to be a
very enjoyable occasion for all.

After such a roval reception and en-
tertainment the boys felt that they must
make the concert go that night. and well
they did. ‘Fhe concert was one of the
hest given this year, Playing before a
good audience the Davidson boys — ac-
quitted themselves most admirably. ‘This
program was the same that was staged
on the last trip with the exception of
two or three new songs. “Mary.” °1U

the only hit for Davidson, stole second,
but perished there. ‘he fielding of the
Wildcats was very erratic, thus account
ing for the four-hit. four-run game of
the oppenents. .

Iw the first inning Burrows, for A.
& E.. doubled to left. field. owas ad-
vanced to third on an out, and scared
on at sacrifice fly, In the second inning,
with aman on third, a fly ball to right
field brought in the second run for A.
& FE. In the third and seventh innings.

Say She Does,” and ‘The Little Ships} sacrifice hits and errors on the part ot

Come Sailing Home,” seemed to be the
biggest chorus hits of the evening. Mc-
Queen staged a very amusing act with
his guitar and, a pair of attached pliers
in the stringed trio. “This, together with
Shields’ salo and Cathy's comedy sketch,
were not far behind in bringing down
the house, each calling for several en-
cores,

The second concert was given at
Hickory, in the High School audito-
rium, Tuesday night. Performing be-
fore a fairly good audience the boys up-
held their good “yep” by rendering a
very entertaining program. After the

‘concert a reception was given the mem-

hers of the club by the young people of
the town. This also proved to be a
delightful affair.

Those making the trip were: H. B.
Brown, C. R. Vance. VT. A. Freeman,
A. M. Inman, S. M. Gilbert. H. B.
Dendy, C. I. Mathews, J. H.  Me-
Keithen. B. FE. Shields, J. W. Phillips.

Davidson's infield gave them the last
two runs,

Score by innings: ROMS
Davidson .000 900 C00—-O 1
AJ& KL. .Itt O00" 1l0~0—4 gf

Batteries: Currie and Johnson, Bur-

rows and Johnson,

THE HILL.

Maj. Edgar CC. Haines, Medical
Corps, with his wife and baby, were vis-
itors of Colonel Mueller Sunday. Major
Haines was camp surgeon at) Camp
Greene. He left here Monday — for
Camp Dix, N. f. He has seen extensive
service on the Mesican border and in
the Philippines.

T. M. Hill, '16. and M. R. Adams,
16, of Statesville, were visitors on the

Hill Sunday.

VISTTORS ON

H.

I. Apperson, of Winston, and P.

G. D. Sample. D. P. McGeachy, M.] H. Brown, of Chadbourne, both ex-’24,
A. Thomas, Carl Cathey and J. J. Love.| spent the week-end on the Hill.

+ + + * t ry . Pa > a ra € 4
COMPLETE BASEBALL SCHEDULE.
” April 4~—Onak Ridge......... .. ee. At Home.
* April 5—A. & E........ bene eeees At Gastonia,
. April 14—Elon ..........00.008. At Home.
. April 15—Elon .2....00.000...6. .. At Home.
* April 17—Unv.. of Virginia........ At Charlotte.
. April 18—Trinity........ veeeeee- At Home.
April 21—Unv. of N.C............ At) Winston-Salem.
“ April 22—Flon 1.0.0.0... 000000 Ar Elon College.
. April 23—Elon ...... Leben ee eeee At Burlington.
id April 24—Trinity ...............At Durham.
April 25—A. & E. ...... Lene eeeee At Raleigh,
April 26—A. & E. ..............-At Raleigh.
“ April 28—Wake Forest ...........At Wake Forest.
April 29—Trinity ...............At Durham.
* May 6—Wake Forest ........ ..... At Charlotte.
° Mav 9—Unv. of 8. C. ............At Chester: *
. May to—Unv. of S. C.............At Home. ,
* * * * . . * * * * o * * * * *.

No. 23

1gtg CLASS BASE-
BALL SCHEDULE

April 21—Senior- Junior,
April 22—Fresh-Soph.

April 23—Senior fresh.
April 24—Junior-Soph,

April 25—Senior-Soph,
April 26—Junior- lresh.
April 28 Monday—T'wo leading

teams play championship game.

Hall and Flinn Win
Place on Debating Team

Woods Chosen as Alternate. Plenty of
Action and Life Displayed.

Vhe Favs and Phi's broke even in the
choice of the debating team at the finals
Monday might. FE. Flinn, Fin and R.
Q). Wall Phi, are the men who will
represent us against Mercer the end of
this month, bh. AL Woods, uz was
chosen as alternate, “Phe debate, wihase
subject was the Government control and
operation of railroads, showed splendid
preparation and was full of pep.
arguing on the negative, brought out
very forcibly the face that our Govern-
ment was not a business or financial con-
cern and that to fet them cantral, and
operate the railroads would be unsound
in poliev. He also pointed out that it
would increase the pork-barrel and make
the cailroads a political issue. On the
other hand, Flinn argued that) private
contral had ao hope ins the future on
accéunt- of. (1) legislation, (2) finances,
and (3) labor. He went oan to show
further that now was the best and most
practical time for: this measure te be
adopted. “The other stx speeches were
very pood, and any one of then would
have done credit to a Davidson debating
team. But since anly two could be
chosen, we are sure we will be well
represented at) Mercer.

A contract for a second debate with
Washington and Lee is beingg closed.
This will probably be held at) David-
son, or in Greensboro, °

WM]. S. HART EN PERTAENS
MOVIE FANS FRIDAY NIGHT

Despite the fact that Friday night was
a very disagreeable one, there was a large
crowd at the “movies.” The first three
reels were entirely educational, and the
last three featured William S. Hart and
Clara Williams in ‘Phe Reformation of
Cash Parrish.”

‘The operator, Rogers, is becoming
quite expert in the art of running the
machine and does as well as any profes-
sional,

The friends of Emery Flinn are _be-
. : vs
coming very much worried about him as
he is getting to be quite a night-hawk.

Why all the safety pins that now seem
to be in vogue in the Junior class ?

Mrs. Pierce, the grandmother of A.
P. and A. C.. Ormond, died ‘ThurSday
and was buried in the Davidson ceme-
tery.

' Fun is frolicksome as a calf, happy as
a bridegroom and silly as a lovesick boy.

¢

f
