The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of 14.
“The Livest Wire on the Hill.”

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C..

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
an mv
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT
wee vee - Editor-in-Chief

D. W. ROBERTS ............--: esses eee , h
J. E. CASSELL..... Lec cecaeceerceraes ceeeee ....++.Managing Editor
Jj. R. BOULWARE, Jr........... eee ee ee eeuees .. Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHEN CK ......06. tae eee Sporting Editors
; FA SKILL concn oc cccueseseutenres Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS ......... en rr Exchange Editor
T. H. SPENCE .........0055 eee cceneaes Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUR ..... nee liccccveeeee DNY. ML C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON ct cesceeeeee reese Seen ies ees Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR... see cena. acre Literary Editor
R. RO McILWAINE ..ccceccee cee e eects Official, Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD

R. T. L. LISTON J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHELL

R. R. CRAIG R. BITZER B. B. BREITENHIRT

C. E. CUNNINGHAM M. W. DORGETT M, R. DOUBLES

J. M. GILMER T. F. MARTIN  W. W. MOORE

J. P. PRICE J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHARDS

A. C. SUMMERS E. H. TUFTS J. Cc. WOOL

Additional Reporters for ‘This Issue Are:

E. N. BOOKER

Manning Sanders
Dow Mcllwaine
Clark Booth

Ormond, A. C.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

. Business Manager
Assistant Manager

C. J. MATTHEWS...
lr. H. WILSON

S

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

L. L. McAlister 2.0.0... 6 cece eee ee ees Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG .. ..... Sec e ee eee Assistant Managers
A. M. MITCHELL ........:...---

LS

Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts on account of sickness,
D. M. Chalmers has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro ‘Tem. As yet there is
no definite news as to when “Dave” will return.

“Wake Forest begins secret practice fur her game with Davidson.’’—Char-
lotte Observer. ‘The Baptists must indeed have a great school this year, as the
above sounds like Harvard-Yale “dope.” Go to it; we will be there Friday.

College life is very much like the hundred-yard dash, success depends chiefly
on the START we make.

There's no doubt about it, you’ve got a clean, spirited team, Guilford.

Who's coming forward with a new yell or that much-needed football
song?

Have you ever thought how the campus entrance would look if trash and
waste papers were lacking there?

The commissary has a supply of tennis balls. We wonder what they ex-

pect us to do with them?

A gentleman never swears—Lord Chesterfield.

HERE’S YOUR CHANGE.

% b oot

Many men have expressed a desire and willingness to help the David-
sonian, and have asked, “How to go about writing for it?” The modus oper-
andi is very simple; give your name to the Assignment Editor, J. R. Boulware.
Jr. No talent or experience is necessary, only a willingness to work. You will
then receive an assignment, asking you to interview Mr. So and So, or to write
up some particular event. Your work is graded by the staff, an accurate record
is kept of it, and in the spring the election to the Reporters Club is made. For
specified work in the Reporters Club, the Golden Quill is awarded,

GETTING ACQUAINTED.

Only half of our college adjustments were completed when we finished
mapping out our academic schedule. We may be able to predict with accuracy
when our next class meets, but can we name with equal accuracy the members
of our class? We may already know our professors by their names (and other-
wise) but how many fellows do we know by name (not to mention nickname) ?
A college graduate once gave this advice to freshmen: ‘Spend lots of time on
your college studies but spend as much more on your college students.”
We have been here three weeks and how many men do we really know?

There is a potential friendship in every passing grecting between students.
But does not friendship like many other things depend chiefly on ourselves?
Do we not receive exactly what we give? Is not the world a-whispering gal-
lery which returns a pleasant or harsh note, according to what we send forth?
If we frown does it not frown back? If we smile do not others smile back? If
you would have friends then open up and be friendly... When you shake hands,

The DAVIDSONIAN Sept. 24, 1919.

grasp the hand as though you were glad to see the owner of it, not as though
performing 4 perfunctory duty. Put your heart into your handshake. The se-
cret of getting next to people according to Marden is to make everybody you
meet feel that you are especially interested in him.

- Nowhere in the world is there a laboratory comparable to a college for
studying people. Nowhere else will we find equal opportunities for knowing
intimately so many men. Nowhere else will we find people so easy to know.
Nowhere else can as many common interests be found. Yes, fellows, our aca-
demic work is important but if it came to a choice we would choose the “book
of human nature” as more important.

OUR CAMPUS.

Everybody knows that we have the most beautiful campus in the South.
| ‘This is what other people say, and, to quote Coach Crayton, we admit it.

! We are proud of it, yet few of us wait to consider how much money
and care is spent each year in trying to keep it attractive. Mr. Jackson and
Mr. Hill work faithfully towards that end, but we do not meet them half way.
! ‘There are walks already made that will carry each student where he needs to
zo without starting a single new one, but in many cases we seem purposely to
avoid the gravel walks and trample the grass making a criss-cross of needless
paths, Of course these are promptly fertilized by Mr. Hill, but they are quick-
ly succeeded by similar eyesores. Having to drill on the campus is hard enough
on the grass, but following each other in short-cuts is much worse. This abuse

is more thoughtless than vicious, but the result is just the same.
To help keep beautiful what is our most distinctive physical possession,

will we not remember, then:

First: “To tack no signs on trees or light poles. ‘he bulletin boards are

ample for all kinds of notices.

oy a

Second: To play no games west of the front line of Chambers Building.

‘The space at the north end of Chambers was cleared of trees that there might

be space free of foliage for ball throwing, etc., and there is ample room be-
tween Chambers and the Gymnasium for exercise.

Third: To put all waste paper, cigarette boxes, etc., etc., in the trash

cans provided in each dormitory.

The west side of Rumple, in full view of

every visitor, has been this fall a dumping place for old papers, boxes, and simi-
lar trash. Other parts of the campus are treated in the same way.

Fellows, it is up to us.

OPEN FORUM

COMPARATIVE IMPRESSIONS.

(Editor's Note: There are at David-
son a number of men who came here

after two or three years spent at other,

colleges. It is our purpose to have them
tell us through the “Forum” how Da-
vidson’s customs and ideals compare
with those of the colleges they have for-
saken).

DAVIDSON VS. MILITARY
COLLEGE.

.

When a fellow finishes High Schoul
and plans to enter college, a great ques-
tion faces him, “What college shalt .1
choose?" Almost 200 men_ solve this

t problem cach year by coming to David-

son, which leads us to enquire. “Why do
they choose Davidson?” | As 1 attended
a military school, { wish to compare
Davidson with such a school.

If a man wishes to enter the army af-
ter college work -is completed let him go
to a military school, but if he wants to
be broadened so that he will be of great
service to his fellowmen, let him come
to Davidson. Here everything is demo-
cratic while at a military school the op-
posite is very largely true. There is a
sharp line drawn between the apper and
the freshman class and also between of-
ficers and privates. Military duties take
up most of a fellow's time, leaving very
little opportunity for studies and the
cultivation of friends. Freshmen are
very seldom allowed to room with upper
classmen and there is very little in com-
mon between the classes. At Davidson.
a freshman receives a cordial welcome
into the student life and is made to feel
absolutely at home. Another difference
is that at a military school the profes;
sors are looked upon as commissioned

officers, making it utterly impossible for |:

any social life to exist between profes-
sors and students, while at Davidson
there is a chance for every man to know
the professors not only in the classroom
but also in the home, where a student

is always welcome.
“MILITARY.”

INSPIRES CONFIDENCE.

In stating my opinion of the differ-
ences between Davidson and other col-
leges, one of which I have forsaken, I
beg to disagree with the gentleman
-whose article appeared in the last issue
‘of the Davidsonian. It falls under my
| observation that the spirit at Davidson
is not superior to the forsaken college,
only there is a difference in the trend.

I find that in other colleges the indi-
vidual has equally as good a chance as
he does here, for after all what you get
out of a thing is exactly what you put
into it. But here there is a determina-
ition which falls upon everyone that en-
ters within its walls, to put forth his

best and make his life count for most.
One is led to feel that whatever phase
of college activities he may enter, his
fellow-students are ready to uphold and
encourage him in his endeavor.

It is this brotherly spirit that extols
the name of Davidson in the hearts of
every loyal alumnus and student. And
may that feeling of brotherhood continue
to remain embedded in the life of every
loyal student! It is this and this alone
that will make Davidson ‘a Greater
Davidson.”

“NUMBER THREE.”

é

DAVIDSON DEMOCRATIC.

One of the first things to be consid-
ered in going from one college to an-
other is the kind of fellows you are to
associate with. Already the writer has
found here the friendliest, finest and
most congenial bunch of fellows that he
has ever met up with.

Although we have been here only a
few weeks, the air is so. full of good fel-
lowship and strong college spirit, that
it makes‘one feel as though he were an
old man,

The splendid religious surroundings,
so lacking in many colleges today, has
a great deal to do with the spirit of
democracy which is so prevalent here.
Nobody needs an introduction, every-
body speaks or knows everybody else,
which is one of the outstanding features
that puts Davidson ahead of most col-
leges.

There is plenty of “pep” to be found
on. all sides, whether in the classroom
or on the athletic field. The first word
on everyone's tongue seems to be “Da-
vidson,” all working toward the com-
mon end for a bigger and a better Da-

vidson.
“NUMBER FOUR.”

IMPRESSIONS OF A
GREATER DAVIDSON

The writer has been asked by an ac-
tive reporter:

“How does Davidson look after two
years’ absence?” My answer is, “Finer
than ever, but not good enough,” for
we are always looking for a “Bigger.
Better, Davidson.”

The student body this year is unques-
tionably the best we have ever had here,
and while we will have larger numbers
from year to year, we will never have
the present ‘condition where so many
men who have been away for one or
two years have returned to college to
finish their work. This gives us here,
even in the lower classes, men who have
been through the great war, men who
have filled positions of great responsi-
bility, who are already mature, and who
have had the opportunity of observing
other schools, and other lands before
taking up their work here. These men
will, give a tone and steadiness to the
student body which will make itself felt
throughout this year.

While I. have examined only about

fifty of the new men, I can safely say
that the new class is above the stand-
ard physically, probably the result of
‘interest in military drill in all ‘schools.
Davidson is unusually fortunate in hav-
ing a former major of the artillery for
athletic coach, and a lieutenant-colonel
who is a graduate of West Point at the
head of military training. All of these . -
things are for the better and in line
with our ideas for a Greater Davidson.

To one who has been away for some
time, Davidson appears striking in her
natural beauty of campus, but unfortu-
nately rather untidy and unkempt in the
appearance of buildings and class rooms.
The college needs and must have more
class rooms and of a more up-to-date
character. It does not compare favor-
ably with many other institutions in
this respect. Again we must have a
large dining hall, ‘The statements in
the catalogue in regard to the advan-
tages of private boarding houses over
the common dining hall were true when
written, but the same conditions no
longer remain. We must have a large
and modern dining hall, with proper
cooking equipment where the food is
properly couked and, served and such a
place can be made to pay a small profit
and at the same time lower the cost of’
-living. There will always be a number
of students who will desire to board ai
private homes and they can be actcom-
modated while the commons would take
care of the majority. The first money
availablle should be used for this pur-
pose, «

Again, | would like to see a certain
amount of shop work and manual train-
ing introduced here. ‘Fo train a student
to use his brain is well and good, but
from present economic conditions it
would appear that it is of equal import-
ance to be able to use the hands. This
course would not be a highly technical
course such as is given in our A. & M.
Colleges, but would be a course paral-
lel to one in Mechanical Drawing. The
writer feels sure that such a course
would have been of far greater value to
him than some of the courses he stud-
‘ied in college some years ago.

Let us look forward confidently to a
Greater Davidson, not Old Davidson,
but New Davidson. Not a college of
500 students but one of 1,000 or more.
Not a college that confines its clientele
to the Southern Presbyterian Church,
but an institution which while still un-
der the care of that church, will be so
advanced and so thorough and offer so
much, that it will draw students ia in-
creasing numbers from all parts of the
country.

DR. WILSON MacCONNELL.

GOLF CLUB WANTS NEW MEN.

_aewn ee

Again the golf enthusiasts will have
a chance to dig up the golf course, ac-
cording to an announcement of Dr. Ar-
buckle Monday morning. Several men
have been secured to fill up the holes
made by last year's aspirants, and the
golf course will be in shape the latter
part of the week. .It is hoped that a
large number of students will avail
themselves of the splendid opportunity
to learn golf, and join the club. The
fee charged is nominal, and gives every
student a chance to get a pleasant and
profitable form of exercise at minimum
cost.

R. O. T. C. SOON TO BE FULLY
EQUIPPED.

A shipment of 182 complete uniforms
is on the way for the R. O. T. C. ynit
and is expected any time.

As soon as these arrive, all men will
receive their complete equipment. All
four companies have been issued rifles.
Companies A and B have received their

full equipment, including the complete
field pack.

mw

*

Beginning Monday. September
15, the Book Room will be open
for one hour only each day, from

9 to 10 A. M.

The Treasurer's office wil be
open for business with the students
until 1 o’clock each day and closed
tor office work and routine matters
after that ‘hour;

F. L. JACKSON.

~@# © *# 2 @ @ we ©

*
e
»
s
*
.
*
*
*

*
*
*
*

ses: *@ @ @ @ ee Be S HG

.
