LITERARY NEWS

Phi. Society Elects Officers for
Next Term

The meeting of the Phi Society last

Saturday night was given over to the
election af officers for the coming term
and marshals for the year. Devotional
exercises were conducted by W. C. Neel.
In the absence of the regular secretary,
Sam Howie was appointed to act in his
stead. After the roll call, the society
proceeded into the election of officers
The following were elected to serve for
the incoming term L. G. Calhoun,
president; C. G. Long, vice-president ;
D. W. Lowrance, secretary;
Foscue, first critic: F. V. Long, second
critic; F. D, McLeod, first supervisor ;
C. W. Robinson, second supervisor.
Those selected for marshals were: D.
M. Chalmers, chief; C. G. Long, L. G.
Calhoun, G. D. Sample and W. C.
Neel.

C. K. Brown and W. W. Roberts,
having successfully completed their work
in the Junior society, were officially re-
ceived and welcomed into the Senior so-
ciety. Reports from the various stand-
ing committees were read. Society was
then adjourned to visit the Eus.

Daylight Saving Law Debated
in Eu. Society

The Eumencan Literary Society
its regular meeting on Saturday night,
November t. The attendance was fairly
good considering the weather.

The meeting was called to order by '
the vice-president, as the president was |
absent, and Mahood was asked to act as.

vice-president. .

Mr. P. Dz. Miller wa
ceived into the society, after which the.
new officers were asked to take charge of ;
the meeting. ‘Ihe president's inaugural ,
address was postponed on account of the
inclemency of the weather.

The question to be debated was:
“Resolved, That the daylight saving act
should be discontinued in the U. §. The
affirmative side was argued by Sanders,
Mitchell, and Matthews, C. J.; the
negative by Gunn. Ormond, A. P., and
Long. One member of the negative ar-
gued that the law should be repealed so
that farmers and their teams would not
be threatened with brain fever by work-
ing an extra hour at noon. The com-
mittee decided in favor of the affirm-
ative.

In view of the approaching contests a
majority of the members of the Phi So-
ciety thought it worth while to come
over and witness the last part of the
meeting.

McAlpine then delivered us a decla-
mation, “The Pursuit of Happiness.”
From the expression on his face at the

{

L, {city of men was almost as great.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Junior-Senior Preliminaries Are
Very Scantily Attended

Teams Chosen by Judges

The Eumenean Junior-Senior Debate

persons present. Indeed it was almost
a case of “reductus ad absurdum.” There
were three judges (there could be no
less), five debaters (to give the judges
some choice in picking the best four), one
officer, and one “audience” for the speak-
ers to address). As it was, they had to
say, “Gentleman of the house.” The
winners were Sullivan, Liston and A, P.
Ormond, with Mitchell as alternate.
The judges were Drs. Grey and Shew-'
make and Professor Reed.

In the Philanthropic Society the scar-
The
winners were J. M. Dunlap, C. G. Long
and C. K. Brown. The contest was
judged by Dr. Harding and Professors
Woods and Douglas.

FELLOWS, LEARN THESE!

Davidson.

O Davidson you are the best old college
in the East or West.

You play a fair game, you play a square |
game, and you win in every test.
And when that “Red and Black Ma-

shine” is out to fight and looking

mean,
| Then I am happy, as for you | sing:

Chorus

held O Davidson we will down them, down .

them ev'ry one,
Come, Davidson, we will conquer ’ere
the day is done,
Down (with Carolina)
(with N. C. State then)
(then with Clemson)
As thru their lines we run

«

Win for the honor of old Davidson. |

F |
s officially re- lo Davidson, you are more than worth Mr. J

all the colleges on earth.

You've got the stuff, men, and that’s
enough, then, for you'll win in
evrything,

You're next to none, and when I sce
you going on to victory,

Then 1 am happy, as for you | sing:
Chorus.

The Name of Old D.C.
(Tune: U.S. Marine Song)
We've a line that has no equal,
And the backfield can’t be beat.
We've a pair of ends that know their job
And they’re always on their feet.
First a tackle play; a wide end run,
Then our distance down the field.
We will fight, fight, fight for victory,
And the name of old D. C.

There's LaFar and Romefelt playing
guards,
Captain Spann now takes the ball,
And when Black, our half-back, hits the
line,
There will be no line at all.

time it is inferred that he has not yet | First a forward pass to George or Pitts,

overtaken it.

After transacting some business of|And we'll fight, fight.fight for victory,

minor importance the society was ad-
journed.

THRU KINDNES OF
OBSERVER DAVIDSON

Just a spurt and they are free,

|

And the name of old D. C. !

We're behind our team now, win or lose,
We are out to play the game.

Little Lacy breaks through every time;

VISITED BY AIRSHIP wiohney Johnston does the same.

Many individuals in the vicinity of

hen the whistle blows, when the play
has stopped,
When the dust clears you shall see,

Davidson are still nursing a sunburn on|That we've fought, fought, fought for

the roof of their mouth as the result of
witnessing an acrial performance Mon-
day evening by Lieut. Shealey, of the
A. E. F. Flying Corporation, now flying

victory,

And the name of old D. C..
A HALLOWE'EN SURPRISE.

under the auspices of the Charlotte Ob-|' Every fellow who is so fortunate as to

server.

The Observer sent Lieutenant Shealy
here with a Curtis biplane to pay their
respects to the students of Davidson.

An assembly of the students, faculty
and villagers thronged the athletic field
to await the arrival of the giant bird. It
hovered ‘inc sight at the ,appointed time
atid the pilot was greeted with cheers
from the crowd on the ground. , Lieuten-
ant Shealy circled over the village sev*
eral times in an effort to find a suitable
landing place. Unable to find ane, he
performed numerous stunts with his ma-
chine and turning, wended his way
through the..clouds ‘back zo the Queen
Cjty, leaving a throng of spectators on
the athletic field thrilled over the visit he
had paid them.

board at Mrs. Brady’s was most pleas-
antly surprised by her Hallowe'en party
last Friday evening. At first the dining
room was so dark that it seemed certain
supper was not to be until 6:30, but as
soon as all were ready, the doors were
opened and those having as much cour-
age as appetite led the way into that
mysterious darkness, lighted only by
fire-breathing ghosts and hissing snakes
of‘flame. But soon the fearful gloom of
an enchanted room gave way to such
contagious good cheer that everybody
was in harmony with those groaning
tables so bewitchingly decorated.

So here’s fifteen rahs for those ladies
who understand how fellows feel away
from home and know how to make them
at-home. three.times cach day. .

was held last Thursday night with very |day on account of his sister’s serious ill-
nearly the “irreduceable minimum” of | Ness.

Miss Virginia Henkel, of Statesville,
was here Monday.
e e

CAMPUSISMS.

D. M. Chalmers visited his home in

h h .|. Mr, and Mrs. D. W. McCullum, of
Charlotte for several days the past week |Sumter, 8. C,, visited Mr. Hugh Brad-

W. M. Hall was called home Tues- ley, '23, Wednesday evening.

LOCA LRED CROSS
CHAPTER REORGANIZED

e s

The student body was glad to see D.
Ww. Spencer an aH. E. Wyman return. ‘he reorganizing meeting of the local
to the hill after several weeks of absence, |Red Cross chapter Monday evening
during, which time both have recovered pear asset resolution That the

rom their accident.
r a ° . this community for one year,” also

M. R. Doubles and J. M. Gaston vis- “That the executive committee accept no
ited Statesville this mid-week on a “shop- | trained worker who is not a devout

: oo .
ping trip. | This encouraging local Program | is
Guy Jones has returned to his home in |part of the rorldwide lispeueable to bring
Chattanooga with his sister, Miss Eliza- lazes hich Oe Red Cee atl

beth Jo ‘past who has been visiting here hin armies during the war. The need

.. ‘for such a protection is great. As Dr.
....,|McConnell, with other local and for-
visited | cian medical authorities testify, physi-
cians and ordinary nurses cannot often
reach the causes of sickness in time to
prevent their consequences.

The proposed worker will have the
authority and the training to improve
. . sanitary conditions thruout the com-

Dr. J. M. Douglas left with the team! munity. She will also nurse individual
for Atlanta to see the Davidson-Tech patients who pay the Red Cross for her.
game. iservices, but who will not be neglected

bd . because of inability to do so. In addition

Miss Sarah Lingle, daughter of Dr. to this important phase of her work, she
T. W. Lingle, has returned. after sev- ,is to be a person capable of doing social
.eral days’ visit with her parents on the and religious work whenever she may
'hill, to Winston-Salem, where she is at-. have opportunity.

.tending Salem College. The churches of the community, the

bd bd bd ‘civic league, the mills, and all inter-
Dr. Richards returned to the campus ested individuals will have an oppor-
turday, after being absent for -several tunity to do their bit toward obtaining

°

* . @

e

James T. Maddrey, '17,
friends on the campus this week.
° i *

“Highpocket” Streibich spent Sunday
in the hospital, due to a sprained leg re-
ceived in a basketball game.

. * .

°

Sa

' days, such a worker. The local Red Cross
* . bd ‘ ‘has on hand over $600 with which to be-
| Mrs. C. P. Brown, Mrs. C. F. gin. To this will be added any volun-

| Brown, Miss Annie Parker Brown and tary subscriptions as much as may he
i Mr. Gallant; of Steele Creek, were vis- necessary of the so per cent of total en-
itors on the hill Saturday afternoon. ,rollment fees which is alloted to local
; * * Ad ‘activities. The other 50 per cent is to
. H. Brady, of Statesville, was; be used in fulfilling the world’s obliga-
tion ta care for the ruined health of
jthose who gave it all for the freedom
Mrs. Wearn, Miss Marjorie Wearn, of the world -

Miss Frances Pitt. Miss Ruth Cannon This week ending November 11,
and Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Barringer, of Armistice Day, is set apart as the time
Charlotte, were on the hill Monday. for all true Americans to again pledge

here on business this week.
e

their loyalty to the cause by responding
to the Third Roll Call of the American
Red Cross.

Town News

Mrs. Brown, of Steele Creek, the
mother of C. G. Brown, '21, and Mrs,
Brown, the mother of Robert Brown,
’23, visited their sons on Saturday.

° * *

Miss Wallace, Davidson's sole Co-Ed,
spent the week-end with Mrs. Douglas,
while Dr. Douglas was in Atlanta with
the team.

cd e e

Mr. and Mrs. Graham Gibson have
moved from the Shaw house, on the Con-
cord road, to their newly finished cot-
tage on Academy street,

. . *,

Mrs. Easley, of Virginia, who has
jbeen with Mrs. M. E. Manning for
some weeks, will return to her home
jthis week. She will be accompanied by
Miss Louise Manning, of Washington,
D. C., who has been spending her vaca-
tion at Davidson.

¢

* e

The Civic Club expects to have a
Rummage Sale about December 1. Mr.
Hager has kindly offered the use of his
laundry room in the Sloan building.
Mrs. Brady is chairman of this commit-
tee, and this insures its success.

« . *

S. T. McCloy, ‘18, was on the hill
Sunday: He gave a very enjoyable talk
at the Ministerial Band Sunday after-
ncon, “Ducky” enters Union Theologi-
cal Seminary this week.

4 Rat That Didn't Smell After Being
Dead for Three Months.

“IT swear it was dead at least three
months,” said James Sykes, Butcher,
Westfield, N. J. “We saw this rat
every day. Put a cake of RAT-SNAP
bchind a barrel. Months later my

wife asked about the rat. Remember-
ed the barrel, looked behind it. There
was the rat—dead, not the slightest
odor.” Three sizes. 25c, 50c, $1.00.
Sald and guaranteed by Mooney
Hardware Co. and White Drug Co.

ia
Por
i

‘

f

M

hy

‘Ny

4

fl
hh

bd

anne

cn

MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by
chance.

WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow.

pipes which are without. peers in all the world.
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF

ie aeiAcane ice a

evearaenearannpcerrmnnTtH¢

~

h

country. Every
year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis-

natural selection,

more and more men are smoking W DC Pipes. - This is not
It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value.
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make
Coupled with that is a
sclf-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion

And it has been

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

FINE. PIPES

