THEDAVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. JANUARY 15, 1919.

Y. M. C. A. Meeting

Vol. VI.

Football “D’s”
Are Awarded

Saturday morning amid the clapping
of hands. the stamping of feet. the cheer-
ing of the crowd and other outward
manifestations ot the student body's
pride in and honor for our Varsity fuot-
ball team, the letters were presented to
the successtul contestants in football
during the past season.

“Railroad” Clark, president of the
Athletic Assaciation, was master of cere-
monies. © As each boy stepped up to. re-

ceive the caveted “D" a storm af ap-
plause greeted him.
“‘khose receiving letters were: W. B.

Crouch, -G. M. Robson, C. B. Robson,
FL. White, L. 1. McAlister, Ho M.
Spann. J. C. MicMaster,.S. R. Brady.
H. H. Massey, LE. AL. Fisthel. W. 1.
Johnson and Pitts Douglas. . These men
were initiated into the Mystic “PD”
Club on Saturday night.

All Davidson men are proud ot the
record of the past season in tootball, and
we wish to congratulate those who re-
ceceived “D's.” one and all, in. winning
the highest honor conterred by the Da-
vidson Athletic Association,

The winners of “D, C." will be an-
nounced. in a later issue.

NO DEFINUPE PLANS FOR
R.O. TLC. UNPE YET MADE

In view of the fact that no informa-
tion has heen received by the college in
regard to the R. O.T. C. unit which is
to be established here this spring. it is
entirely impossible. to give the students
any light on the matter at the present
writing,

Until the officer who ts to be in charge
of the unit is designated and arrives to
assume his duties, nothing whatever can
be said relative to the working plans that
are to be formulated and carried out here
at Davidson.

As regards credit for the werk done
by those who enlist in the R. O. T. C..
the faculty has definitely agreed to give
full credit for this course just as any
other course, allowing the-student to sub-
stitute the military training for any re-
quired course he may so desire.

In the case of Freshmen and Sopho-
mores the training is compulsory, still the
opportunity is afforded them to drop one
of their required courses in favor of the
military training. For Juniors and Se-
niors the course is entirely elective, credit
for one period being given should they
so desire to take the training.

It is readily seen that altho at so late
a date military training is universally
placing itself in the college and is rapid-
lv becoming a most important feature in
the training of the college man. It is
needless to attempt to picture the need
and necessity for it.

Friends of Mrs. Mary C. Lawrason
will regret to hear of her death at Van-
couver. B. C.. on November 15, news of
which has just heen received here. Mrs.
Lawrason, with her daughter, Miss
Tennie Lawrason. spent a vear or two in
Davidson. in the home of Mr. L. R.
Smith, and her dignity and charm im-
pressed all who came in touch with her.

ee

Sunday Night

The Yo MLC. A. held its first meet
ing of the new. vear on dast Sunday even
ing, “Vhe work of the Yo Mb: C. AL was
presented to the students and they were
urged to take an active part in it.

KG. Lilly. president of the Student
Association, in a toreefal manner show
ed why it was the duty of every one to
share in the work.’ He showed the woo-
derful opportunities afforded too every-
ene and appealed to the students to take
advantage of them.

Emery Flynn then outlined the work
in the eight country Sundayeschoals run
by the Y. MLC. AL He tald how much
the people appreciated the work that the
Davidsan boys did in these schoals.
Miles closed the meeting with a short
talk on the social work which-he is plan-
ning.

Movies and Bible Classes.

Did you enjoy the movies Saturday
night? Our “Y" did that for us, and
they are going ta do a whole lot more
this spring. Bible classes will be held
every Sunday .morning at
Last Sunday only about 125 men were
enrolled owing to the confusion of starts
ing the regular college life again. “This
week the motto is te be “Have You
Joined?" and by next Sunday it.is hoped
thar every man in college will have
joined one of these classes: Read over
the list of classes and see which would
be the niost convenient ‘tor you to po to.
The schedule is as follows: Chambers,
north wing. first floor, S. M.. Gilbert.
roam 13; third floor, C. B Robson.
roow 72. Chambers, south wing, second
floor, D. ML. Chalmers, room 4g: third
floor, E. A. Woods, room 82. Georgia.
first floor, R. B. Cunningham, roam 10;
second floor, Emery Flynn, reom 13:
third floor, R. C. Garth. room 25.
Watts. first floor, R. R. Clark, room 8;
second floor, J. Hl. Miller, room 9; third

floor, E.G, Lilly, room 23. Rumple.
west. side, first. fluor, S. “TP. MeCloy,
room 19: third floor.A. D. MecArn,

room 29, Rumple, east side, first floor.
A. R. Craig. room 5; third floor, LG:
Calhoun, room 12.

Who ls Aly Neighbor?

Next Sunday at 6:30 Mr. Miles is to
speak on “Who is My Neighbor on Da-
vidson Campus?” There was a good at
tendance Jast Sunday, but no ene can af-
ford to miss next Sunday's service.

Sunday School Work.

It has been necessary to temporarily
discontinue the country Sunday school
work on account of the influenza epi-
demic in the rural districts, but ag soon
as conditions are sufficiently improved it
will be started again. ‘There are eight
of these schools, ranging from two to
twelve miles apart. Flynn in his talk
Sunday night brought out the fact that
Davidson was noted for its interest in
this work and we cannot afford to let it
drag. A large number of men volun-
teered to help-in this and other “Y”
work, but more men can be used on a
number of the committees. Anyone de-
siring to have a part in this work should
hand their name to E. G. Lilly at once
so he can assign them.

Have You Joined?

‘the next uve weeks.

Mr.

10 o'clock.)

Basket Ball Begins
Class Games This Week

Plenty of Material and Varsity Pros-
pects are Fine.

Basket ball) practice starts chis week
and the schedule tor class contests is: be
ing arranged so as tu he completed in
From the teas
which represent the several-ckisses Coach
Fetzer will pick the Varsity squad. Very
few of the old) Varsity men are back,
and there is an opportunity for evervone
who goes out. “There was a great deal
OF spirit manttested in Company games in
the days ot the So ALT. Cu. ane its is
expected that even a larger number ot
fellows will be out to Aelp take then
class team champions.

Chass athleties not only premotes
greater class spirit. which means so much
to the student, but itis one ot the best
avencies to keep up the old (Davidson
pep. and it gives those who are: inter,
ested a gaod chanee ta make the Varsity
squad later on.

During the next two weeks while the

t

class games will attract: most attention.’

Varsity practice will be held three times
a week at night.

A trip thru Virginia is bene planned
for the Varsity about the middle ot Febs
rudry.
hy Coach Fetzer.

-

PROSPECTS FOR CPHE ANNUAL.

The Senior class held a meeting Mon-
day morning and it was decided by all
means to get out an Annual and to leave
it to the discretion of the management
as to the cost, size, ete. “The printing
and binding is to ‘be done by the Benson
Company, of Nashville, whose represen-
tative was on the Hill Monday and it
was decided to get out a 200 page leath-
er bound book, and the quality of the
engraving is to be in ne way cut down.
fe is hoped that the Annual may be pot:
ten out by May 20, and they will
sell for $3 cach, credit being given for
the blanket fee payment.

It is requested that all who will try
out for the art staff and any one else
who can do anv work in any wav per-
dining to an Annual see the editor-in
chief as soon as possible, for it is very
necessary that all the proof go in ar the
earliest possible moment, With a little
co-operation on the part of the students
this year’s Annual will without doubt
do as much credit. to the school as its
predecessors,

FIRST MEETING OF

MINISTERIAL BAND

With about 30 members as a nucleus.
the Ministerial Band began its spring
term work in Shearer Hall last Sabbath.
The meeting was addressed by A. R.
Craig, on the “Life of Mark,” after
which D. W. Roberts made a few re-
marks. The president, W. M. Currie.
has returned, and under his leadership
the band looks forward to great things
this spring. All men who look forward
toa life-of service in the Gospel ministry
will find it worth. while to join this of-
ganization,

Other games are being arranged.

SONIAN

No. 11

Letter From Mr. Parker

Dear Fellow Workers: Since writing
last we have Tua ao siege ot influenza
here. also, just as Vou hive had in all
the rest af the world, We had to close
all the schools here tor about ten days,
as most of the pupils became sich. We
had no very. severe cases here in’ our
schools, the some died in the city, and
we consider ourselves mest fortune
When we hear the reports. from every-
where ele. almost. Personally Lo was
sick ine bed only one day, and) Mus.
.Parkér has escaped so tar. Jean has had
avecold tor some weeks, but it does not
seeny to be serious. God. has certainly
heen good tocus in every way. We start-
cd upschesl over a week ago now, and
all the boys are back wath very tew ex
ceptions, Some ot the teachers are still
sick, but we hepe to have thear back
soon, also, so.that we will be on our two
feet apain, Some ot the bovs went to
their homes while sick, bat nist ot thent
staved here, We have a good hospital
here, and they could get medical treat
ment in their reeutys, tho same ot them
had to enter the hospital itself for a lew
davs, Lbelieve. tt has titned very cold
new, and we think Chat this wil prevent
the -turther spread at the disease; and
for that reasan are glad to see the cold,
tho tuel iis so hard to get that there will
he wuch suffering this winter.
not been able to get our winter coal vet,
and are not sure that we can obtain
whit we want, the we can get seme coal
ol acvery poor grade. We may have to
use this altogether.

Last Monday Mr. Pak. a newly. or-
dained preacher, who praduated from
the Seminary last spring, defr tor China
to do missionary work. there. As you
know, the Korean Church has been do-
ing missionary work in China for several
vears now, the first missionaries beta
sent there in 1geg. | believe, “he work
has not been without its | déscourage-
ments, as one of the first missionaries
came back home sick ‘and died soon after
vetting back, and the other two left
about a vear ago fer other reasons, but
last vear-the Chuyeh sent two new men
with their families to the same field in
China where the church there had been
started. and this year these men called
for reinforcements, so Mr. Pak was sent
out. The church started by the first mis-
sionaries had some twenty members, and
these Chinese showed great love towards
the Koreans who were laboring among
them, and particularly were they teuch-
ed by the labors of the one whe got sick
and came home to die. “Vhese men work
in connection with the American” mis-
sionaries in China, but they have a field
of their own to work which is not being
touched by other evangelistic labors. ‘The
native church here in Korea supports
them, of course, “The Koreans have to
learn the Chinese language, and customs,
for quite a number of things are differ-
ent there, the of course, the East is the
Fast, and Koreans can understand Chi-
nese better than we can ever do. Re-
member this work in vour pravers, .and
especially remember Mr. Pak as he be-
gins his work there at this time.

You remember the two voung men of
whom 1 spoke to you last time. | have
since that time seen several times the one
who works in the post office. and he stil!

(Continued on page 4)

We have
