THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Devotional News

Gibson Shoe Repair Shop

Fellows, bring me your

old shoes; make them look | Splendid Work at Oak Grove|GLEE CLUB PROGRESSING;

new. Sunday School

: Maintained for Past Five Years by

FLOWERS _____ Davidson Student Body

. . Probably one of the most promising
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C. of the Sunday Schools conducted by the

Flowers for all occasions at pop- students of the Y. M. C. A. is the
ular prices. . school at Oak Grove. It has been main-

. . tained solely by the Y. M. C. A. mission
Orders taken for delivery in any board for about five years. It is located
city in the United States.

about two and one-half miles west of
DAVIDSON AGENCY —_—_Pavidson.
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

L. G. Calhoun, the superintendent,
GENTLEMEN

and his faithful staff of teachers have
been doing a splendid work. It is one of |
Send your next batch of
films to

the most interesting and fruitful fields
covered by the students. The attend-
ance every Sunday is between 30 and
45, including both children and parents.
Thru the generosity of the school trus-
tess, the school building is used. They
have a good organ there and the singing |
is unusually good for such ‘a mission
point. .

The community offers its support to
the Sunday School in many ways. How-
ever, due to the fact there is a Sunday
School at Mt. Mourn, just a mile away,
the attendance is not so large as in other
fields. A number of denominations are
represented and all work in perfect har-
many. The pupils are all very enthusi-
astic and the work is encouraging.

The present plan of the superintend-
ent is to have an outside speaker preach
or talk to them as often as possible, Dr.
Arbuckle having spoken this last month.
This school is but one example of the
wonderful work carried on by the stu-
dents of Davidson College.

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Charlotte, N.C.

EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt.

7 Romple

Better Service, Better
Work

Model Steam Laundry Co.,

Charlotte. Laundry called for
Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
Ne. $0 and 26 Chambers

SECOND FLOOR WATTS
LEADS IN PERCENTAGE
FOR BIBLE. CLASSES

Sunday morning failed to come up to
the desired standard caused by somebody
failing to do their part. “There was no
excuse for not being there Sunday, and
you would have been better off if you
had been there to help do your part in
this work. Don't slack on the job, but
he there Sunday and make your class the
hest on the hill. This is the record for
last Sunday morning:
Watts:

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY

: JEWELERS :

661 Chestaut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

No. Present. Pet,

9 | First oor... 0.0.0.0 92 80
Brown s Cafe Second floor .. .. .. .. 20 100
THE Third floor .. .. .. ... 18 90
SENSIBLE Total .. .. .. .. 2... $0 90
TO EAT Louisiana... .. 0.0.0... 16 80
Rumple:
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at East side... 0.0.0... 22 «92
’ West side... .. 1.6... 27 74
Brown's Cafe Total .. .. 6... we ee 49 7
AN AMERICAN PLACEFOR. = Chambers: —
AMERICAN PEOPLE North Wing ........ 40 78
South Wing .. .. .. .. 39 63
9 0) 79 7
Booe’s Market cers:
First floor... ........ 8 50
Second floor .. .. .. .. 12 90
Fresh Third floor ... 10 60
Meats Total .. .. .. «1... .. 30 66
Grand Total .. .. .. 224 76

“QUIPS AND CRANKS”
PHOTOGRAPHER HELD

At All Times
BUSY SESSION HERE
To get “shot’’ in a good cause is

GENTLEMEN
iworth while, Individually and tollec-

Wher in Need of Ton- tively the Davidson students gave evi-

dence last week of their belief in this. ,
A representative of the Shuford Studio,
of Gastonia, spent Thursday here taking

sorial Work, give

CALL FOR ASPIRANTS

The Glee Club is now holding two

meetings a week and much progress has
been shown. More men are urged to
try out for this organization as the

showing at Senior Speaking should be as |

good as possible.
“Buck” Currie has been elected as-

sistant manager and with his aid, Man- ;

eger Shields should have one of the best
quartets since the days of Jamie Fowle,
the Southern nightingale. The program
is being arranged for Speaking and soon
there will be nightly rehearsals,

Come out and trv for the Glee Club!

ENROLL IN THE RED CROSS:
PAY YOUR DOLLAR
BEFORE NOV. 11

Altho the war is over, the Red Cross
is still in action. It did a great good
during the war and it is still upholding
its reputation. It takes money co run it,
as it does everything else, so they are
calling upon every one to enlist in the
1920 roll call. Membership in the Red
Cross Association costs only one dollar.

The students will not be canvassed

for this, but instead one man from each
class has heen appointed to receive your |

dollar. These men are as
From the Senior class, §. H. Askew:
Junior class, J. R. Boulware, Jr,; Soph
class. C. E. Cunningham; Fresh class,
W. S. Buchanan. See these men and
give them your dollar before November
11, as the campaign closes at that time.

DAVIDSON BATTALIONS WILL
PARADE IN CHARLOTTF.

Saturday morning Colonel Mueller
inade a speech to the men in the R. O.
T. C. urging them to reconsider their
former vote not to go to Charlotte in
military formation for the game with N.
C. State. Colonel Mueller emphasized
the fact that it would be an excellent ad-
vertisement for the college, and also said
that when the people of Charlotte see us
march up West Trade and down South
Tryon with the band playing the bat-
talion marchirig like veterans they will
all root for Davidson, whether they had
intended to do so or not. After this ap-
peal the colonel asked those who wished
to show their loyalty for the college and
the team to hold up their hands. By a
large majority vote the Davidson Bat-
talion decided to go to Charlotte.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
The Sunday Schools not only main-

OUTLINED BY DR. LINGLE
The meeting held Sunday night at the
Presbyterian Church in the interest of
the Red Cross was attended by a large

ed by Rev. Mr. Woosley, pastor of the
First Methodist Church, after which Dr.
Lingle read a most appropriate Scripture
reading from the 25th chapter of Mat-
thew. Dr. Armond rendered a solo.
Dr. Arbuckle gave a short sketch of
the real aim of the Red Cross organiza-

that every person in Davidson would

us a trial tindividual pictures of the Juniors and
|Seniors, ‘and various group pictures, to
Norton Barber Shop  [Crani:.”
Nezt to Postoffice

A Nice Line of Pen-

nants, College Jew-
elry, Watches and
Alarm Clocks

W. S. HENDERSON,
The Jeweler

All but a few Juniors and Seniors soon join the chapter here. Dr. Lingle:

were taken. The photographer will be ‘made a fine talk on the history and work
here again after Christmas for one day of the Red Cross in previous wars and
lto take the pictures of those Juniors and jin the late world war, and told many
; Seniors who did not see him Thursday. thrilling experiences in which the neu-
‘This will be their last chance. Pictures trality of the Red Cross was not respect-
,of the basketball team, the glee club, led by the enemy. He stated his belief
.and the marshals, will also be taken at ithat in the future the neutrality of the
‘that time. Red Cross would be held sacred by all
Group pictures of the two Literary nations.

Societies, the Ministerial Band, the Vol-| Dr. Lingle closed this talk with the
unteer Band, the Georgia Club, the Ala- {familiar quotation which is the aim of
bama Club, the Mecklenburg County jthe Red Cross: ‘Inasmuch as ye have
Club, and the other organizations on |done it unto the least of these my breth-
the hill were made. ‘ren, ye have done it uno me.”

follows: :

tained their good record Sunday, but
‘also showed a slight increase, due chiefly ;
to the beautiful weather, it is supposed.
The attendance for last Sunday was. as
follows:
School. Members. Teachers.
Brawley .. 2. 6... 50 4
Caldwell .. 2. 0... 96 7
Cornelius... .. .. .. 68 7
Cowans .. .. .. .. 20 5
Mill .. .. 0. 1. 1. 56 4
Oak Grove .. .. .. 32 4
Shearer Chapel .. .. 58 8
Total .. .. .. .. 360 39
RED CROSS WORK

‘crowd. The opening prayer was offer- :

i

be for the 1920 annual, “Quips and tion in Davidson, expressing his belief

|

‘| ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS |

Ihave just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. °
Work guaranteed

GIVE ME A TRIAL
Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra.

Four Suits for $1.00 :
Harris Pressing Club i
SAM HARRIS, Prop. 4

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN

AS YOU PASS

Precxroe ||

$308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Train-
ing School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man.
When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to
“go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then
a course in our’ Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in
touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen
his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good.
Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

e
ry ‘
Southern Life and Trust Company. i
Greensboro, Wl. 6.

4

A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. i
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. 8. Gunter, Assistant Secretary. i

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced
eg

[town cmmassccccsewenswcccmnnenencecccesccascsnsscoces cnececereseseesesnaseenasssecesconce,

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS

That you can buy at the

: DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
4

Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Win-
dow Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and
Fixtures.

oer ecansoecex.

;
A
;

Prescriptions Compounded by
Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date
Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary
Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company

The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business and will give you a square deal. He represents
only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements.

He is also a Public Notary and at your service.
Athletic Sport is the royal read te geod

KEEP FIT health. We fursish every essential for

Football, Soccer, Basketball, Indoorball, Hockey Skating and
the Gym

Agents Wanted where we are not Represented ;

ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.

Athletic Outfitters. 26 East 42d St. New York City
Write for our new catalog.

