4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

Pounded by Class of ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATBS:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

BIW ccc cc cece scent erences cece setae saree nese eres esse ees ect ens Editor-in-Chief
5 EB CASSEL: eee cececcccerccereereesere Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Ir... .ccsccrccccsccsnscccvssccsessserssseeseccesssees Assignment Editor
L, B.S CK... cscceccceeccecsencones
8. H KEW.......
JT. GC. MCCABKILL.....ccercccccccsescccccsccrcsessavscscsvsssssssesereee eras
D. M
HA. | oe
T. H. SPENCD
L. G@. CALHOUN.
AL. WILSON. + seeceece se
JM. GASTWAINES..scccvccevscesveees IDI ITES Oiticial Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BN. BOOKBR WwW. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD

R. T. L. LISTON J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. CRAIG R. BITZBR B. B, BRBITPNHIRT
c. B, CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES

J. M. GILMER T. F. MARTIN Ww. W. MOORE

J. P. PRICE J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHARDS

E. H. TUFTS J. c. WOOL

issue: Bray. Wolfork, Brown, }., Fewell, E., Thames, Menniog.
H. H.., Davis, Fricker,

dditional ters for this
mond, A.C. Ormand, A. F.- King, Saatth,

eee cece mer em eee seen neers ee seass eres esrsanessesses

enay.

Prrrrrrrr rrr ree eee eee eee

Assistant Managers

EDITORIAL

Our aim: The best college weekly in the South. Are you doing your
part?

We suppose the Magazine, like all good college publications, will be out on
time.

It was left to the “Man who gets things done” to give us the game by de-
tails.

Remember: The team leaves Friday on the 7:11 and returns Monday on
the 2:58. They're not discouraged, were not either. Let's have one hundred

per cent out and prove it.

Start saving now and we'll all be in Charlotte on the 8th and Winston-
Salem on the 15th.

Dave Roberts.
HE news that Dave Roberts will not return and take up his position as
| editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian is received as a serious blow not only
to this paper but to the whole college. Last March when the new staff
and management assumed office progress was made by leaps and bounds. “The
size of each issue was increased beyond anything ever before attempted. A new
life had been put in the work. Back of this movement was the eversenthusias-
tic spirit of Dave. His whole thought was wrapped up in his work. He woke
up dreaming of a “Greater Davidsonian” and went through the day with the
thought still before him. Such pep wil always produce results and this was no
exception. Even this year while lying in bed recovering from an attack of fever
he frequently wrote, offering helpful suggestions and looking forward to the
time when he would again he with us. We hope that he will continue this pol-
icy and return next year to take up his work for the “Livest Wire.”
S serving of the highest praise, come the announcement from the faculty

that its members will not be given college credit as regular. R. O. T. C.
work. The reason for this action is given that the band, just as the Glee club
or Orchestra, is an outside activity. It is on this point that we take issue. The
band is essentially a part of the military department. It is an invaluable aid
in drilling and is a necessary feature of every good military unit.

Practice in the Glee club and Orchestra is optional. When a candidate
has to study he can cut practice and absence is marked against him. The mem-
bers of the Glee club and Orchestra make several trips each year, while no such
privileges are accorded to those working for the band. The presence of the
band Saturday in the review distinguished it from any similar performance we
have ever had. The regular college students turned out to watch it and the
men themselves seemed to take some pride in this parade. .

It is hoped that satisfactory arrangements can be made and the tuling of
the faculty can be so construed that the work of the band will in no way be
hindered. ‘The student body feels its need as is evidenced by the sacrifices they
made to provide the necessary financial support. With the approaching foothall
games its usefulness will be further increased. It has now become a reality and
a necessity and we hope that nothing wil be able to retard its splendid progress.
ee

DAVIDSON SOON TO the first time, the band gave a really

OUTRANK WEST POINT? |creditable performance.
The R. O. T. C. under the direction

of Lieutenant Colonel Muller, is mak-
ing rapid progress and is now considered
one of the most important factors in
the college.

Rev. McNeill Now in Oklahoma

Band Makes Debut.
IMULTANEOUS with the initial appearance at the band, which was de-

Can the Davidson fellows drill? Well
you should have seen them last Satur-
day. A and B companies, marching in
column of platoons to the strains of mar-
tial music from Davidson's new band,
swung past the reviewing stand with
lines as straight as arrows. Davidson’s
band made its debut on the parade
ground, and the R. O. T. C. paraded
for the first time this year.

The band as an innovation introduced
a new style of procedure in that it was
in two detachments. The first detach-
ment consisted of the entire band with
the exception of one musician, Gunn,
the younger, who was the whole second {he was chaplain with the infantry in the
detachment by himself. Appearing for|A. E. F.

Rev. Daniel A. McNeill, of Raeford,
N. C., is now pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church of Mangum, Okla.

Mr. McNeill left his work in the
Savannah Presbytery in September,
1917, to enter the service. For a year

[OPEN FORUM

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to
.contribute articles to the Forum, please
_feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more
discussion, pro or con, by the students
jon college problems from now on.)

Why?

I agree thoroughly with what Mili-
tary said in the Forum last week about
the R. O. ‘T. C., and now I would like

‘to analyze the reasons for the small

" amount of work which is given to the

military training outside of the regular

r drill and recitation periods.

Let us compare the R. O. T. C. with
any other subject on the hill. Take
Soph Math for instance. There are
three recitations a week. There has to
be an hour to an hour and a half spent
in preparing for classes. This makes a
total of seven and a half hours a week.
This alone can well be taken as the
average.

Now let us consider, on the other

hand, the R. O. ‘TT. C.. There are three 5 1g gen ident
Or hours of drill and two of recitations, that “Safety First’? is the best policy in

Besides, there must be at least two heurs

baggage to the hotel free of charge.
What more do you want? Then think
what a fine thing it will be to have the
parade before and after the game, when
headed by the band we will celebrate
the victory.

Witson MacConne i.

Safety Firat

“Oh—! Oh—! My eyes, come quick,
please! Please help me—my_ eyes,

h—!’ You who play with potassium
nitrate and red phosphorus beware lest
these words be yours.

Do you value those Gad-given instru-
‘ments, which will aid you in attaining
the heights of success which you long
|for? If you do, the accident which hap-
pened the other night should be suffi-
cient to show you that explosives are not
‘to be “monkeyed” with.

Our sympathy goes out to the young

men who were hurt, and we hope they |

will rapidly recover from their burns.
We are sorry that they had to be the
example, and we hope that no more les-
|sons of this kind will be necessary to
teach the coming generations of students

handling explosives. ;
Too much stress cannot be laid upon

‘spent in -preparation, if the suject is to; t :
be mastered in any acceptable way. This ithis subject of explosives as well as upon
makes a total of seven hours a week. the generation of offensvie gases such as

Now for this seven hours’ work we hydrogen sulphide and carbides in stu-—

|

o>
i

(0)
ws
EXCHANGE |
. COLUMN
| j
CC) ~ el

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

. (Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading
college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish news that will interest all who
are acquainted with college life. The
editor reserves the right, however, to
criticise, misquote or burn any and all
_ exchanges).

OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY.

The Oglethorpe Library has just re-
ceived a splendid collection of German
books, which amounts to nearly one
thousand volumes. This is the largest
number of books from an individual col-
lection ever presented to the school at
one time.—The Petrel.

If all the telephone wires in the Unit-

vet but half as much credit as we do
for the seven and a half hours spent on
Soph Math, when in the eyes of Govern-
ment the military training is just as im-
portant as the above mentioned subject.

There is another side of the question
which must be discussed. The college
has always required a man to take six
tickets his first two years, and then as
he gets into college life they realize he
is more pressed for time and so require
‘but five tickets his last two years. Wrth
the R. O. T. C., however, a man has
either to take up six tickets in addition
to his military training two years, which
is easy for “studs” but difficult for the
average man; or during his Junior or
Senior year he has the alternative of the
drill or an extra study cither of which is
anything but easy, since he usually has

dents’ rooms. These things are danger-
.ous, Leave them alone! R. W. D.

Davidson to Raise Budget for
Pictures

Contributions Solicited from Friends
to Run Cuts

The Davidsonian proposes to raise a
budget for the purpose of running a few
pictures in every issue. Cuts add great-
ly to the make-up of the paper and the
staff proposes in this way to make The
Davidsoaian more interesting. Many of
the old staff men and friends have sug-
gested this from time to time—they
have also certified their desire to con-
tribute to this fund. The staff has de-
cided to accept these contributions and

one or two subjects to take over again. |to ask that others that are interested to
Of course a man can carry an extra'please let us hear from you. The plan is.
ticket but his standard of work will cer-| this: we are inviting every student, friend
tainly be lowered. and alumni to send in their pledges in.

Now let us see what the result wil) ;amounts that they desire to give for the!
be if the cillege authorities persist ‘Metres of establishing this budget for
giving but one-half credit. Not much the running of cuts. It will not be nec-
‘interest will be taken in the R. O. T. C. /essary to send the money with the pledge,

ed States were rolled into one ball and
weighed, do you know the service
‘couldn't be much worse than it is now.

—Chara-De-Six,

| CARSON-NEWMAN COLLEGE.

The Tar Heel Club met a few days
ago and organized for the ensuing year.
i There being an unusually large number
of Tar Heels this term, they are al-
‘ready beginning to look forsward to the
annual reception, which is the most en-
joyable occasion of the year—The
Orange and Blue.

MILLSAPS COLLEGE.

Despite many obstacles in their way,
the girls scored a splendid triumph in
‘organizing the Y. W.
going to petition the faculty to be al-
owed to meet once a week during chapel
time——The Purple and White.

C. A. They are

UNIVERSITY OF S. CAROLINA.

The Engineering school at the Uni-

After the first two years most men will
drop it. Asa result all the money which
the Government is spending here will
practically be wasted. In return for all
its expense the Government expects to
get officers in the reserve corps who will
at a moment’s notice be ready to help
train soldiers. If, however, the men
only take the basic course, consisting of
the first two years, and fail to take the
advance course and become reserve ofh-
ers they are of no practical use to the
Government and so all the money being
expended is giving men a course of train-
ing which makes them of no practical
use to the Government in time of an
emergency.

We all take our hats off to Colonel
Mueller. If it was not for his undying
pep, the military training would be a
fizzle. Now, if we can, as “Military”
suggested, get the college authorities to
give a full ticket for the R. O. T. C., we
can, under the leadership of Colonel
Mueller, turn out reserve officers who
will be a credit to the college and to the
Government. ’22,

ON TO CHARLOTTE.

Allow me to suggest that Colonel
Mueller’s plan of having the student
battalion go to Charlotte in uniform for
the A. & E. game. be carried out by all
means. It will give tone and pep to
the day, it will give our alumni an op-
portunity to see our battalion, of which
we are proud. It would also be an ex-
ercise of manouvre in that it would
give the men practice in entraining and
detraining. To march up Trade and

Tryon streets headed by the band and ‘to perfection than anything that has been ‘and movies entertain

the colors will be a fine advertisement
for the game.
The mayor of Charlotte has given an

4

so after the game.
jhave a truck at the depot to take the

this may be sent later, but we are an-
xious to see how many, folks are inter-
ested in the proposition, so that we may
determine how much to expect for this
phase of work.

The Davidsonian has purchased a
camera outfit and all material necessary
to take and develop pictures. R.R. Mc-
Ilwaine, a student, has had a great deal
of experience in this line and has taken
all the pictures that have appeared in
our paper this year with possibly one or
two exceptions. We propose to run
pictures of our athletes, debating teams,
interesting visitors and any other pic-
ture that may be of interest. A good
many cartoons, drawn by some of the
students, will also add spice to our
pages,

A list of contributors and amounts
will be published each month. If you
are in favor of the scheme, say so. Help
us make The Davidsonian the best col-
ege paper in America. C. J. M.

GEE WHIZ! GHOSTS.

The fresh had about forgotten the
spirits and ghosts because of other usages

of their brain (?), but Friday night | whisper.

tended to remind them of their old
friends and their works. When Jack
Pickford came before the student
jbody in presenting “The Ghost House”
he surely made a hit with all present.
And you dumping expeditions had_bet-
ter go slow from now on, for everyone
has seen that ghosts are not invincible.
{The Atwell girl also helped by showing
that “if you are a spirit a little fire
won't hurt you.”

The picture undoubtedly came nearer

‘seen here this fall. And in sp far as
changing reels was concerned /it could
not have been excelled. The short

invitation to the student battalion to|time intervening between reels was all Tech
parade in the city; we will have a room |used, too, by songs and more singing. | :
he was Religious Secretary in the Army jat the Selwyn hotel for the men to|There was a slight difficulty expeieced EEE
Y. M. C. A., and then for another year |change their clothes if they desire to do ;by some in finding seats, which proves there next time and help every other
Further, we will |the popularity of the shows to be increas. fellow learn that new song, for it is a
Fellows, be sure tobe,

ing steadily.

versity is trying a new experiment. It
is the co-operative: plan which affords
students opportunity to pay own ex-
penses. Employment is secured outside
and students work two weeks in every
month. The school term is thus length-
ened to six years, but the practical
_knowledge thus obtained is worth much.
i—The Gamecock.

UNIVERSITY OF T.ENNESSEE.

The University is sending out what is
called the Y. M. C. A. “Deputation
Teams.” It is the purpose of these
teams to visit various preparatory an
high schools in East Tennessee and and
sent to the students in attendance the
\advantages of coming to college, and
jjust what and what not to expect there.
—Orange and White.

They were sitting in a secluded cor-
ner of the veranda. Suddenly he took
ther little hand in his. His voice was
choked with emotion as he said: “Do
you think you could love a man?”

“Yes,” she interrupted with a soft
“Bring on your man.”—Ex.

FURMAN UNIVERSITY.
The Glee club has been organized
and every indication points towards the
best Glee club that has ever existed at
Furman—Furman Hornet, *

BOSTON TECH.

. —_——

| Over 2.500 students attended the all-

technology smoker, . Wrestling, boxing

ed the throng. The :

main abject of the smoker was to ac-

quaint the freshmen with the customs
and traditions of the Inst‘tute-—The

beauty.
