4

OUR. ROLL OF HONOR.

(Continued from page \)
October, 1918. Lieutenant Montgom-
ery lived at Atlanta, Ga., prior to his
entry into the service.

In Atlanta he was well known, espe-
cially in the religious activities of his
church there.

Feeling that his country was calling
him, he entered the first Officers’ “Train-
ing Camp at Fort Oplethorpe, Ga.
where he received his commission, Short-
ly after being commissioned he receivec
overseas orders and gladly went to do
his “bit.”

T. N. Morton

‘Tazewell Norwell Morton graduated
with the class of "18 dast May 29. ‘PT.
N.,” just a few hours after receiving his
diploma in Shearer Biblical Hall, went
down to Charlotte and enlisted in the
Coast Artillery Service. He was assign-
ed to duty with Battery B oof the 52nd
Coast Artillery and was sent overseas
immediately. In the mid-fall of 1918 he
died of disease contracted after being
wounded. He was always exceedingly
pood natured and friendly and so gained
a host of real friends among his fellows.
fe was with much regret that the stu-
dent body heard of the death of one of
their own classmates. Morton's home
was in Oxford, N.C.

Lieut. Ervin D. Shaw

When the United States entered the
war one of the first: young men from
the State of South Carolina to answer
the call to the colors was Ervin D.
Shaw, ex-'15, of Sumter, $.-C. He went
to Columbus, Ohio, to prepare himself
for the Aviation Corps at) Ohio State
University. After finishing his course
there he entered the Aviation Corps of
the British Army with the rank of first
lieutenant. After getting: “across” he
was stationed at Oxford and in Scotland,
and up to the time of his death was with
the British Air Service.

On July g, 1918, while on a scouting
expedition alone, he was attacked by

three Hun machines, and though he put),

up a brave fight was overpowered, and
shot down. A comrade writing to his
mother and testifying to his absolute
fearlessness and coolness while in action,
says that when he “was ordered back of
the line fifteen miles on a very danger-
ous reconnaissance, he went back eigh-
teen or twenty miles to bring in a better
and more accurate report.”

Lieutenant Shaw was a Davidson

alumnus, and while we regret to hear

of the death of one of our number, it
makes us all feel proud of one who was
such a brave and gallant hero, giving
his life and paying the supreme sacrifice
for the country we all love.

Lieut. James M. Douglass

Tt was with deep regret that all Da-
vidson men heard of the death of Lieut.
James McCants Douglass, “10. On Oc-
tober 14, 1918, Lieutenant Douglass
was a victim of pneumonia following in-
fluenza. Lieutenant Douglass was bora
in Winnsboro, $, C., July 14, 1889. He
graduated from Davidson College with
the class of 1910, later entering the law
school at the University of South Caro-
lina. He was a member of the law firm
of Douglass & Douglass, at Winnsboro.
until he enlisted in the First Officers’
‘Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe. He
was commissioned a lieutenant and was
stationed at Camp Jackson until July 1.
when he was ordered to Fort Sill, Okla.,
to take a course in the School of Fire.
Since September he had been attached to
the 63rd Regiment of Field Artillery at
EI Paso, ‘Tex.

Lieutenant Douglass was admired and
beloved by all who knew him. He was
an active member of the Presbyterian
Church at Winnsboro, having been a
member of the board of deacons and also
president of the Senior Christian En-
deavor. He was scoutmaster of the

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1919
———————————————————————— eT _ een

Winnsboro Boy Scouts and exerted’ an
uplifting influence over all his boys.

Lieut. Pressly R. Brown

The friends of Lieut. Pressly R.
Brown, ex-'06, were sorry to carn of his
death in France. He was a student at
Davidson in the class of 1g06, altho he
did tiot graduate with his class, as he left
college at the close of his Junior year.

Lieutenant Brown was in the Medical
Corps of the Army, and was the first
officer from Mecklenburg County to give
his life for the Allied cause. He was 34
years of age, having been born in Sharon
‘Township, in Mecklenburg County, in
1884. He practiced medicine two years
at Jackson Springs, N. C., and later at
Graham, N.-C. He entered the service
in December, 1917, and was stationed at
Camp Merritt, N. J. “and. sailed for
France about January 1, 1918.

Lieut. John C. Paisley

Lieut. John Cannon Paisley, of Gib-
bonsville, N. C., graduated with the
class of 1917, and) was commissioned
first licutenant at the second Officers’
‘Training Camp at) Fort Oglethorpe,
Ga. He was later sent to France, and
gave his life for his country on. the aft
ernoon of June 21, while leading his
company in a desperate charge.

As a Davidson man he was loved by
all his fellow students. He was a leader
in the social and athletic life cof | the
campus.

Maj. W. G. Langwell, in a letter to
Lieutenant Paisley’s father, says: “Your
son was an excellent: soldier, a beloved
comrade, and a born Jeader. In his first
and only battle he led his men like a
veteran, was skillful, brave and success
ful. He pave his life in the performance
of his duty and | shall always feel that
his spirit ts with the regiment. ti: encour-
age the rest of us to ‘carry on.” He was
loved by his men, and associate officers.
His body was carried back and buried,
after a brief service, in the rear of his
command, while the German artillery
sounded the funeral march.”

Harry F. Shaw

Harry Faison Shaw, ex-8, was born
at Wilmington, N.C. He entered Da-
vidson College with the class of 1917.
but dropped out and returned with the
class of tgt8. He was popular among
his fellow students and tuok an active
part in’ student activities while on the
campus.

“He was a typical American and was
loved by all the officers and men who
were associated with him,” are the words
written to his mother on his death in the
U.S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, N.Y.
by a captain in the N. MLC.

Ensign Shaw died of broncho pneu-
tmonia on the afternoon of December -19
1918. He was a member of the U. S.
Naval Reserve Corps.

J. S. Bachman

News came last fall of the death of J.
S. Bachman, Jr. 18, who died of pneu-
monia in NorfdfkKPOctober 17, Joe was
one of those wie kyaduated in last year's
class, and this fall joined the Navy. He
was stationed at the Naval Training
School at Norfolk, where his death oc-
curred after a very short illness. His
remains were carried to Bristol, Tenn.,
for burial. Funeral services were con-
ducted at the home of his paents by Dr.
C. C. Carson, assisted by Rev. Robert L.
Bachman, Jr., a relative of the deceased.
Before burial his remains were covered
by the flag for which he died.

Joe is remembered by his friends for
his sunny disposition and loyalty. Joe
had a way of making everyone know
that he was a friend. He was a good
student and faithful in his duties. In
his death all have lost a true friend, and
the college a loyal alumnus.

Lieut. Samuel R. Keesler

Among the gold stars on Davidson's
service flag is one which stands in mem-

ory of Lieut. Samuet R. Keesler, Jr.,| Senior years, and graduated last

Aviation Section, A. FE. F., who gradu-
ated here with the class of 1917.

“Sam” Keesler will be remembered
by every Davidson man who was in col-
lege with him, and his name will be fa-
miliar to Davidson alumni in general.
He was known here as a leader in every
phase of college activity. He was known
thruout the South as one of the best
quarterbacks in intercollegiate football,
being the general of Coach Fetzer's “‘ma-
chine” for three of the most successful
years of its history, and this success was
duc largely to “Sim's” leadership on the
field. He was also a member of the
‘baseball team for two years,

It was characteristic of “Sam” that
he was among the first of Davidson's

jsuns to hear and answer the call of his
Ccountry,

Shortly before commencement
in 1917 he entered, the First Officers’
Training Camp at Furt Oglethorpe.
Ga., and was commissioned. a second
licutenant three months later. He was
assigned to duty with the 324th Infan-
try, Camp Jackson, S.C. It was also
characteristic of “Sam” that at the first
opportunity he chose service as an avi-
ator. He was transferred from Camp
Jackson to Fort Sill, Okla. where he
received the three months’ Ground
School course for acrial observer. From
Fort Sill he went to Mineola Field (N.
Y:), where he received further training
in aviation, From Mineola he was sent
to France, and after final training there
was assigned to the Aero Squadron duty,
with the long distance naval guns. In
letters o his parents in Greenwood,
Miss., he mentioned a number of flights
made into German territory, On Oc-
tober 10. 1918. he was reported missing
in action. From information available
it-is apparent that his plane was brought
down while in action behind the German
lines. According to a telegram from the
adjutant general to his father, he died
October 10, in a field hospital at La-
nituriere, due to wounds in abdomen and
breast, received during aerial combat.

We remember “Sam” Keesler here at
Davidson as a true type of gentleman,
scholar, athlete, friend—a man all the
way thru,

Donald M. Wearn

Donald M. ‘Wearn, ex-'19, entered
Davidson in September, 1915, and re-
mained thru the fall term of his Sopho-
more year... He died in October, 1918,
of pneumonia, follawing influenza, ina
Red Cross hospital in France.

Shortly after war was declared Don-
ald Wearn enlisted in the Army, and
was assigned to the Fifth Coast: Artil-
lery, at Fort Caswell, He was sent
overseas the latter part of May, 1917,
and served with the Anti-Air Craft Sec-
tion of the Army until stricken with in
fluenza,

‘Those who knew him here remember
him as a young man of excellent habits,
winning personality and bright. intellect.
Few were ahead of him in answering the
call of his country. We regret that he
was not with us longer. His spirit of
patriotism was very strong, and it sent
him into the service among the first of
our number. He gave his life for his
country, more than which no man can
do, a

Dean M. Orgain

News was received of the death of
Deane M. Orgain, ‘18, which occurred
Sunday, October 27, in the base hospital
at Norfolk, Va. Orgain had joined the
Navy late in July and had been stationed
at the Naval Training School at Nor-
folk. Some time later he was affected
with Spanish influenza, which developed
into pneumonia from which he died.
His home was in Danville, Va.

Deane came to Davidson as Sopho-
more in 1915, having spent the previous
year at Hampden-Sidney College. He
returned to Davidson for his Junior and

May
with the A.B, degree, proving himself
a guod student in his work.

During his three years on the David-
son Campus Deane’s earnestness, reliabil-
ity and high Christian spirit won him
many warm friends. One who knew
him intimately has said that he possessed
all the gentleness and the purity in mind
and speech of a woman, and was in all
his habits a consecrated Christian. He
took a leading part in the Ministerial
Band and religious work on the campus
and in country Sunday Schools, When
he graduated in May, Deane had the in-
tention of entering Union Seminary this
fall. but later, feeling it his duty, enlisted
in the Navy.

D. R. Poole

David Reid Poole, ex-'19, is, so far as
is known, the first Davidson man to lay
down his life in his country’s . service.
He was born near Mooresville, N. C.,
on November. 18, 1894, and spent his
south there and at Mt. Ulla, N.C.
When the class 6f ‘tg entered Davidson
College, Poole was among their num-
ber. He stayed in college until Septem-
ber, 1917, when he was drafted into
service and went to Camp Jackson, S.C.
Here he remained for three months un-
til, in December, during the meningitis
epidemic, he exposed himself to the dis-
vase by nursing a stricken comrade and
so was attacked by it. On December 15.
after a short illness, he died, his body be-
ing buried at Mooresville.

While at Davidson, Reid was a con-
scientious student and gave most of his
time to his books. However, he did not
fail to give evidence of his athletic
prowess by making the class football
team and in track and tennis, ‘He was
a candidate for the ministry, under the
care of Concord Presbytery, and the
church suffered ‘a great loss when he
was called to make the supreme sacri-
fice for his country.

Lieut. Frank H. Smith

On the sth of October, on the avia-
tion field at Fort Worth, Tex., Lieut.
Frank H. Smith, 16, was killed in an
aeroplane accident. Graduating at the
age of eighteen, Frank Smith was one
of the finest and smartest men that has
attended Davidson College. Dignified
of appearance, sterling of character, bril-
liant of intellect, generous of heart, a
splendid orator, a popular, all-round
man—those who knew him in col-
lege remember him, and with the deepest
of respect. ‘There was many an excla-
mation, of heartfelt regret that such a
splendid life should be snuffed out just
as. its time of usefulness to the world
had arrived.

Smith graduated at Davidson in '16
with first honors. He taught at McCal-
lie the next year, and enlisted in the
Aviation Corps about a year ago.

After special training at Georgia
Tech., he was sent to Taliaferro Field,
Fort Worth, Tex., where he flew for
four months.

Everyone who knew Lieutenant Smith
admired him and recognized him as a
great leader,

DR. W. B. ARROWOOD, ‘76.

The Rev. W. B. Arrowood, D.D., of
Sharon, S. C., an honor member of the
class of 1876, died on January 18, 1919.

He was the Salutatorian and was
honored and respected by his classmates
and the college as a whole.

Since the reunion in 1916 there have
been three deaths reported in the class.

DICK’S LAUNDRY
GREENSBORO, N. C.

G. W. BLACK, Agt.
Have your laundry Monday night

