Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919 7

HERE'S THE “DOPE” ABOUT
NEW COACH.

(Continued from page 1)

men. His success at Davidson is .as- THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

With such assurances as these coming
in from all sides and with the splendid
material which he hag_to work on, we
have-every reason to expect a team that
can trim anything in this part of the . .
country. ‘The attendance record has al- Something New in Davidson
ready been broken and now the athletic .
records are going to receive some serious
jolts.

FRESHMEN HONORED. FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN

(Continued from page 1)
ham, Nancy Shelton, Ruth Shelton, El-
len Victor, Virginia Staten, Virginia
Williamsen, Lillie Jenkins, Elizabeth
Dowd, Calvine Scott, Frances Worth, AS YOU PASS
| Catherine Worth, — Eloise Martin,
Mary Parks Grey, Elizabeth Grey.
| Miss Woods, Miss Barringer, Juliet

Bristol, Ann Bristol, Virginia Hinkel. so meefe

Miss Hicks, Helen Marsh, , Miriam
| Morris, Adelaide Harris, Lavinia Boy-

WPeaeceee. Lon te cena wwe eeeetewewene ren. nemmmanenresessTBESEETSsewcwescon 4
er, Mis. Morris, Mrs. Beyer, Dr. and I
Mrs, Lingle, Sarah Lingle, Sarah Wil-
kins, Miss Mellen, Miss Gene Mellon,
Miss Price, Misses Black, Lillian
Floyd. Virginia Staten, Dorothy Par-

ker. Miss Williams.
~~ Registered Pharmacists

THE BURDEN. BEARERS.

Prescriptions Compounded by

an easwcnwoocoweeee

You ‘tind them in college as you tind
them elsewhere. Without them student
activities would tall through, and so far
as these activities are concerned,’ the col-
lege die of inanition, ‘They are few; yet
their energies enter into every phase of
college life. Are students looking for
an editor, a manager, a booster? “They
turn to one of these. By most of the
students they are regarded as fortunate.
Sometimes, when they have worked hard

The Home Beautifier— and met with indifference, they think

— =e themselves unfortunate, And it, some-
MakeSO1d Furniture,Worn Floors, times happens that students who have
p ability but not interest or energy or en-
and Woodwork look like New again thusiasin, look upon then with green
The cost is small and the pleasure of doing the eyes of envy.
work yourself is great— You'll bedelighted with Now the burden bearer has his re-

the fine results obtained by using ward, net in’ the satisfaction which
PEF GEE comes trom the fact that he-is editor or ;
manager or chairman, though there is
some satisfaction in these things, but in {
the fact that he has started right. He

will net be long in college. Four years DAVIDSON COLL
gets him through. He is no flunker. EGE
Then he goes out in life, and life lasts

It Ie easily applied, dries quickly and adds to 4 ;
i at pretty long time, He goes out tratn-
the life and app co of Hors, furniture and ed. He has learned on the college pa-

woodwork. per more.than a smattering of journal- DAVI DSON, NORTH CAROLINA

We carry a complete line of up-to-date

Savings Division
Today Department i
Stationery. Drink at. our Sanitary

Fountain. We want to serve you

PTT LEP LEE PTSTAP CEC IEL STL ESULOUOEULLELO LECCE RSS RAPA LOR CULES ULEC LL Sem

White Drug Company

The Rexall Store

Pocasdocccdos secon cone Beas a SSeS OSS S STITT SE SSS:

Peo Geo RE-NU-LAC fs a Stain and Varnish ism. He has learned as manager more
combined—made especially for beautifying than a smattering of business methods.
homes. Try a can today. He has run into knotty problems and
colt Pet na Peo Geo RE-NU-LAC comes fn all sizes, from solved them. He has learned how to .
and Booklet, Sc cp. Made in 20 Natural Wood and lead men, ; ee
“The Mod Ecamel Colors, White, Gold and Silver. b He does not face the hard facts of
the business world with only academic
PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., MANUFACTURERS knowledge (though strange to say nine
LOUSVELE syseeronatee KENTUCKY' times out of ten he has more of that
es commodity than his less active brother) Thorough Courses Well-Equipped
= but with knowledge of business in the |; ,
= bargain. He looks the business world (\ .
in the face with some assurance. If 'f Laboratories
‘| . . there are desirable jobs hanging around, ;
SRV ieee I tat CR Mba citaon oo Une he is apt ‘to land one. He is the kind
of man business men want, |
More than that, he has made many
———— SS > —=y

friends, and friends not only cheer but
thy help. His teachers have watched — i¢-e-+--- caeececsneeee. sees a
him, have estimated his worth to the-
. college, and concluded that he will be
PRICE for price, grade for grade, of worth in life. And teachers get not

there is no better pipe made a few letters asking about this man and
thana WDC. You can get a pipe that. He has met the livest men in
with the familiar triangle trade- other colleges. He is remembered by
mark in any size and shape and them as a pushing fellow not afraid of
grade you want—and you will be work and responsibility. He belongs to
glad you did it. W DC Pipes are that fraternity of men who can do
American made and sold in the things.

But to come to the point. Men are
best shops at $6 down to 75 cents. needed to run college activities, to edit

the college paper, to write the articles, _
to manage the business of this and that -
enterprise. ‘he next year will see the ,
same demand. Get into the swim. Train

| yourself. Show yourself ready to as-

; sume responsibility. Fill the gaps made
vacant. It's a privilege and opportunity
—an opportunity not only to do your
bit for the college, but to train yourself
prusd ot tn any pe to be for life, to make the acquaintance of
Genuine French Briar, other men who are actively engaged in’
carefully selected een college work in other institutions, and
mounted with sterling to increase several fold your chance of
band and vuloanite bit ‘ success in that bigger life for which col-
lege is only the preparation.—Old Gold
vand Black.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced
$408,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Train-
ing School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man.
When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to
“go to it.” We vive him a preliminary correspondence course, and then
a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in
touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen
his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good
Drop us 4 line and ask us to give you full particulars. °

Southern Life and Trust Company

Greensbore, Wi. C.

A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.

‘WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer

R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

\[pessecaccsasansasssasascesccsessues cases seas sess seSSe ees aeaaeseeeeeTTeeese

