THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

popular as it seems at present, the Var-
sity should not be troubled by lack of
punters in the next few years.

PEANUT PARCHER

The Selwyn Hotel | '

' FIRE PROOF

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

A part of Sunday was spent by the
‘majority of the boys who were on the
hill in hearing and enabling others to
hear the rumor to* the effect that the
game with N.C, State was to be played
on the hill instead of at the Queen City.

Located in thc heart
of Charlotte, conven- | |
ient to railroad  sta- |
tions, street cars, busi- | |
ness and shopping cen-
ters. |
Table d’hote lunches,
12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO- | |
PEAN..

Rooms $1.50 and up;
with bath $2.00 and up.

Our system of artes:an
water flowing through the
building.

H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

' Our suggestion for a class ring: Two
horts and one long.
nd

YELLOW JACKETS WIN.

(Continued from pagg 1)
ed 50 yards to Spann, who recovered on
his own 17-yard line. McDonough

one goober to the student submitting the ston hit right tackle for two. Johnston
best critical essay on the subject: “Why punted 30 yards to Ferst, who returned
‘Hallowe'en was not celebrated at Da-,24. Tech's ball on Davidson's 35-yard
.vidson.”” These must all be handed in Jine.
‘to the ticket office of the athletic field — McDonough went over left tackle for
not later than Tuesday, November 4. three yards. Ferst hit the same spot for
three more, Guill fumbled and David-
Soph—‘I’m on for extemporaneous son recovered. Half, ended. Score:
debate tonight.” Tech 13, Davidson 0. -
Fresh Henry, '23—‘‘Have you gotten Third Quarter.
it up yet?” Johnston kicked to Huffines, who was

ed to gain, Ferst made four = thru left
tackle. McDonough failed to — gain.
Ferst punted 38 yards to Spann, who
downed in his tracks.

Wyman. of '23, ascertained the spon-
tanecus combustability of the comic sec-
tion of the Saturday afternoon edition of
the Sunday comic section of a current “aS
newspaper during one of his vacan
periods of Monday morning of this week. forward pass, Spann to Douglas, netted

three yards.
. . five. Johnston punted: 45 yards to Ferst.

If there is any person on the Hill who McDonough failed to gain. ‘Ferst_fail-
does not think that he could run the ed to gain. Ferst failed again. erst
Peanut Parcher far better than is being punted 33 yards to Johnston.
done at present, we would appreciate Johnston made four thru left tackle.
*he possession of his name.” McAlister made two at right tackle. On
an attempted pass Davidson fumbled,

No meeting of the student body was Tech recovered. McDonough made two
called for after chapel Monday morn. at left tackle. Ferst made nine and first
ing, but most of the students remained in down at left guard. Gaiver hit left
their seats for a few moments “from tackle for three. He fumbled but  re-
force of habit. covered. Ferst made two at left. tackle.

| A farward pass to Doyal netted seven
Woeful tales of the high cast of liv-

‘yards, Ferst made two at left tackle.
‘ing were hauled back by the delegation
which Davidson sent to the circus which
circled in our sister metropolis in the
,forenoon of this week. Even the price
‘of amusement scems to be on the incline,
according to Cop Johnston.

Attention, College |
Boys!

A new line of Stetson, No-
Name, Vanity and Belk Hats
at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00 and $7.00.

College boys’ skirt model
suits, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and
$39.50.

New Neckwear at 50c, $1.00
and $1.50.

Silk Halé-Hose in ali colors
at 59c, 85c and 90c.

‘more. Ferst made his third touchdowa
when he went around right end for
seven yards. Fincher kicked goal. Score:
‘Tech 20, Davidson o.

Shoe Repairing

Florida Davis, on being aroused from.
his slumbers to go to prayer meeting, |vidson fumbled but Spann recovered for
[rushed out into the hall and inquired of |, three-yard loss. Johnston punted 35
‘the first person he met: ‘Where's the ‘yards to Guill. McDonough fumbled
fire? but recovered.
left tackle.

Ferst kicked 35 yards to Spann, who
Score:

for three.
For neatness and dura-

bility send your shoes to

An exhibition “of wit sufficient” to;
cause the greatest geniuses (?) of pres-| fumbled and Tech recovered.
ent-day mirth to stink away impressed ‘Tech 20, Davidson o.
with their utter state of hopeless medio- | Fourth Quarter.
cricy was exhibited in 1 Rumple on the : .
last day of last week, where had gather- Gaiver made three at left tackle. Mc
ed from all corners of the campus, the
iflower of Davidson's bush pullers. Haw- :
kins, Martin and Liston all tied for sec- came spor ule. Johnston went tn ae
ond place in the contest which was held. fumbled but recovered. Johnston punt-
ed eight yards out of bounds.

“The colder it gets the more heat we! Ferst made 12 at right, tackle.
have,” observed Big Gunn as he placed. boro made eight at left tackle.
‘his hand on the radiator. ‘fumbled but recovered.

' oo left end for 11 yards and his

il Why don’t someone institute another touchdown. Guill kicked goal. Score:
\ get-rich-quick scheme by selling guide Tech 27, Davidson o. ;
| books . Charlotte to the fresh who are | Guill kicked off 40 yards to McAlister
4 Ke a tne k ld lwho returned 23. McAlister made four
ore okt af cwent cen each * oul d at at left tackle. A forward pass, Spann to
someone circum two score cart wheels ‘Douglas, went for nine. yards. Jobn-
+ ston made five thru center. Spann skirt-

The reason we ain't writing a rhyme ed right end for seven yards. McAlister

this number is cause we've got to take imade it first dows ne Ponwacd ue
time to slumber a little every other night Spann to Douglas gained three yards.

i| and if we happened to write poetry while Johnston hit center for five yards. John.
sleeping it might we be any better than ,ston repeated for one more. Tech penal-

1 $0 3 . ‘ized five yards, off-side. Johnston went

From all reports the record slide of rae tackle for three and hit the same

the Shu Fixery, Charlotte,
N. C.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents

$0 and 36 Chambers

Scar-
Ferst

we Tie So

| BradyPrinting Co.

Statesville, N. C.

: The College Printers

| If you want good printing

a and quick service, BRADY

‘Phillips in the Bingham game was sur- .
Is THE MAN TO DO ‘passed by that of a waiter in an Ashe- |. A forw ard pass, Spane ‘le pais ond
r IT ville hotel which was witnessed by the for it yards. Guill hit center for one
; jentire Scrub squad. All report a very Scarboro failed to gain. Ferst bucked

enjoyable meal. left tackle for five. Scarboro swept

around left end for 10 yards. Scarboro
ran §§ yards for touchdown around left
side of the line. Ferst missed goal.
Score: Tech 33, Davidson 0. Ferst
f kicked 35 yards to Spann and the game
ended.

“United we stand: divided we fall”
said one of the Springfields which com-
posed a stack on the drill field.

ORDERS SOLICITED

Red Smith was asked by a member o
the class of '23 what he had made on the

| AT THE COMMISSARY

; ’ 2 4 : Line-up:

“\|first month’s review in Fresh history. p: 7

416 Chambers H| Upon hearing Red’s reply the fresh re- ech Position. Davidson.

marked, “That does pretty well for a|Fincher......... LE....... Davis
fresh.” Doyal........... LT. . Romefelt

downed in his tracks. McDonough fail- |

Gaiver went thru center for two, Mce- ;
Donough crawled thru center for two

Gaiver made three at |

Donough failed to gain. ‘Tech fumbled, |
Davidson recovered. Murray made one ,

1f campus football continues to be as LeBey

_ Murray for McFadden, Werth for Mc-

The Peanut Parcher offers a prize of threw Johnston for five-yard loss. John- |

Murray fail- ;
1 ed to gain. Shepherd failed to gain. A’

Johnston hit center for '

ce eneeeaee LG...... Nimocks
Phillaps(Capt.)...C........ Brady
Dawling........ RG....... LaFar
Huffines.........RT..... McMaster
Staton.......... RE...... Douglas
Guill... ......... QB. . Spann (Capt.)
Ferst........... RH...... Murray
Gaiver.......... LH..... Johnston
McDonough... .. FB..... McAlister
Substitutions—Davidson: McFadden

for Murray, Shepherd for McAlister,

Alister, Tech: Granger for Fincher,
Amis for Phillips, Frye for Staton, Nes-
bit for Dowling, Webb for Doyal, Davis
for Nesbit, Smith for McDonough, Mc-
Ree for Huffines, Lyman for McRee,
Scarboro for Gaiver.

Work without intelligence is like a suit
without style, it may keep you warm, bat—

The blue sky is the limit.
Fly as high and as freely as fancy
dictates.

There are no hard of fast rules to

Tounchdowns: Ferst 4, Scarboro 1. hold you down this season in regard
Goals after touchdown: Fincher 2,||| what you shall wear.
Guill. A cheerful freedom is the last word

as to styles, trim, patterns and colors.
Our $35.00 suit takes the air readily
it’s a bird.

A step in time saves many a dime.
Prices are not coming doton—quite the
reverse,

Officials: Elcock (W. & L.), referee:
Major (Auburn), umpire; Lewis (Vir-
ginia), head linesman, Time of quar-
ters: 15 minutes.

INNIS

WITH

PLAY TE
Oo; 2

Spalding Tennis Equipment /

Balls, Rackets, Nets, White
Flannel Trousers, etc.

Fidlequinment for men and teomon, including
tenamcotning. Send fer catalog.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
THE COMMISSAR,

34S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, W.6.

Announcement....

Wy

E are pleased to announce

that, in addition to our -al-

Guill kicked off 35 yards to Murray, |
who returned 28. Spann hit right tackle ;
Murray failed to gain. Da-;

Ferst skirted |
fourth :

ready modern facilities, we have
secured the services of a Commer-
cial Artist in the person of Mr. J.
B. Mallard, and are prepared to fur-
nish promptly original sketches
and designs for all classes of com-
mercial work, such as trade marks,
monograms, book covers, signa-
tures, etc. Designs in one or more

colors.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention
. guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD |
PUBLISHING CO.

‘CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.

PHONE 643

