8 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 30, 1919

" ALUMNI NOTES. The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY ‘ 1
the Cam Union Theological
Heard on the pus (Continued from Page 4) OFFICIAL FRATERNITY

in France and was awarded the Croix
The aim of honor roll men: To get] de Guerre. ss J E W E L E R S 3
100 on their reports. OO RICHMOND, VA.

The aim of “us”: To get home be-| gye ° 661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
fore our reports Fifteenth Anniversary
* e a

b]
Hugh Hamilton introduced an inno- of 04 Z. K. JUSTICE For information, address
vation into the Phi Society by sending DENTIST

Seminary

absences to those who were present in- Lewisburg, W. Va., Apr. 26, '19 W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D
v , W. Va, . 26, "19. . . . » VD. D., . DW,

stead 6f absentees. Monitors please take Friends, Davidsonians, Classmates, lend Office Over Bank

notice. . me your ears: Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00 President

. . ‘Toot-toot! ding-a-ling! —honk-honk!
After sceing some of the hair-cuts giddap! and. also whatever may be the "
- wished off on certain of the. boys, we proper all-aboard for an air-bus! 2

humbly beg to suggest that local barbers What sounds are these? Why, to be .
After Vacation, What?

he forced for avenge certificates of Prof sure, the warnings for you to get ready
crency, Detore engaging ‘ ‘Tto re-une with THE CLASS at David-
To College, of Course!
are familiar with Davidson athletic record;

ities, + # son on May 27. Regardless of whether
you have to walk, ride or fly, you must
know of the success of her debating teams;
have heard of her beautiful] campus;

on account of reading our columns you he there for the yreat he Cha The Vif-
blame us. If we flunk on account of feu heel "hike of the line of 1904.
writing this line instead of studying, who tsa little difficult to realize, isn tit
; o{ that it has been almost fifteen years since

have doubtless thought of the fact that ‘‘Pep’’

and unbounded college spirit, such as character-

izes Davidson students, can live only in whole-

some campus conditions.

in the thunder are je Rong to blame: we passed out as a class from those his-
are acquainted with Davidson alumni in places of

toric halls?) And we have not had a
reunion since! How do the boys look

responsibility and trust in politics, in business, and
in religion.

Funny thing. If you flunk a review

Italy's action in the Peace Conference
reminds us of boyhood days when the
owner of the baseball necessities always
announced, “If you don’t let, me pitch
I'm gonner take my bat and ball and go
home.”

now, after all these years? Where have
they been and what have they been do-
ing?) How are the College and the pro-
fessors and all the Davidson folk? Don't
too you want to know? [ do, and so I hope
to meet you all on May 27.

Several other classes, among them ‘99,
09 and ‘14, are going to hold their re-
u : " ° ; unions on the same day, and ‘og must be
lish oa aap tect short poem in the Zug- there in full force to help boost the new-

Nicht lok «thousand eyes ly organized movement for a Greater

Bnet Nas 3 * yes, Davidson. Alma Mater and Auld Lang
Her father two. Syne call. Should old ; . b
Yet had he seen me yestereve ye Ca Oe old” Acquaintance be

, forgot?) The answer is no. ‘Therefore:

Ere fell the dew, , .
As I kissed her in the moonlight, Obey that impulse and write to me to-
day that you will be there. Remember
5 y

Under heaven's full view, the date, May 27, 1919. Bring the wife
I ld bably b itin this he da re, in ay . 9. ring the wt
a ee eee ey ng in and kiddies along (if any). If you

On hospital stationery.

Last week this paper published ‘“Ihe
most perfect short poem in the English],
language.” Please note our effort at the

’ BUT do you know about the 20 courses Davidson offers; the
entrance requirements; the assignment of rooms; the cost of a
college education?

Catalogue containing this and other information will be sent free.
Address:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. Davidson, N.C.

; have any suggestions regarding the re- z
+ * ©
We are supposed to get janitor service union, send them to me now. . BLUE RIDGE SCHOOL FOR BOYS
At present it is generally a case of a Sincerely and cordially yours, HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

Robert H. Adams.

man looking in your room, sometimes A select home school, on Accredited List, offering to a limited number

tearing up things a little, and then going} — f boys, f ; ; . a
out. If we are to have room inspection, | TWENTY-F VE OuR Go AL ube we rome Ae x years old, a more intensive system of training than
we ought to have white Inspectors, any- ° ° {deally located in healthful. invigorating climate, conducive to study.
ay. - . ach boy's personality carefully studied and directed by efficient teaching
yu ” of Davi _ (Continued from page 1) staff composed of virile, patriotic men with successful teaching careers.
he “returned heroes” 0 Davidson} Some of the many speakers and lead- A teacher for every seven or eight boys insures individual attention in
College. along with last year's Soph.-|/ ers of the Convention are: Mr. R. E. studies Boys taught HOW TO STUDY.

Math. Class, drilled on the Sprunt Field) Speer, Dr. H. H. Horne, Dr, Winfield Military deill, boy-ecout activities, and all branches of athletics directed and supervised »
Friday for the benefit of the Inspector.} Scott Hall, Dr. W. W. Alexander, Dr. able instructors. ,
* »- * ©. FE. Brown, Dr. E. M. Poteat, Dr. High moral tone; homelike. cultured environments, parentel discipline.
Teagne—Locking for iw volume nt rawin Mims. All of these are proted Total charges for session, Sept. 17 to June 6, $480. Summer Term, July Aug. 26.

ert Harte’s orks: here's that | lecturers and prominent men of the
book by Britenhirt?” country. For catalogue, address J. R. SANDIFER, Headmaster,
._* « The expenses of entertainment at HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

With the student body elections loom-| Blue Ridge are a $5.00 program fee to
ing up large on the horizon, free ‘“dopes”| he sent in advance, and $15.00 for board
are becoming very plentiful. and room for the ten days.

* e* ¢ There is no reason why a large num-

“Amo™ Love and Crowell: had on dis-] ber of Davidson men should not attend
play some very good openings for young|the Conference, and from all appear-
men. Amo will show you a sample if it] ances a great many are planning to go.

is so desired. F you want the best pipe
_ * 4 COL. AND MRS. MUELLER i] that can be made, you
Last Thursday one of the town boys HAVE RETURNED,| ' can get it ina W D C—up
was the discoverer of a very vicious type
of fowl (not a chicken) which, by an] Col. and Mrs. A. H. Mueller arrived to $6. Tf you want the nt
unexpected attack caused him to beat a|Saturday from Denver, Colorado, where 8 .
hasty retreat. they were called by the serious illness of as little as 75 cents will buy,
* * 8 Mrs. Meuller’s mother. The student you can get it ina W DC.
It is rumored that the class of Greek] body will be sorry to hear of the death American made, in all sizes
VI. will give an open air interpretation|of Mrs, Mueller's mother. Their sym- and styles, and sold at the
of the folk dances at an early date. Lead| pathy goes out to Col. Mueller and Mrs. best shops.
by Miss Priscilla Wilson and Eunuch| Mueller in their bereavement.
Pharr this should be a very enlightening
spectacle. Shiel HOW IT HAPPENED. Pi]
essie Shields and Co. journeyed to No
Huntersville Sunday to render two se-{ Once a year the newsboys of a certain pipe than this one. Gare
lections at three seeds per. for the C.| district of London are taken for an out- Freon ened senuine
E. Convention exercise. “Amo” Love] ing up the Thames by a gentleman of ring and vuleanite bit,
also gave some gratis information as to| the neighborhood, when they can bathe pen ad fitted and finished
the best mode of running the Christian] to their hearts’ content. .
Endeavor Society. As one little boy was getting into the : ‘WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
: water, a friend observed: “I say, Bill.) |} World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer

Thriftlessness is shiftlessness. Put] ain't yer dirty?”
those careless coins into Thrift Stamps] “Yes,” replied Bill; “I missed the
and those Thrift Stamps into W. S. S.| train larst year.”—Tid-Bits.

