onsider rr
dn

[IE DAV:

SONIAN

UN
eosters,
UN

FOR A GREATER DAV

IDSON

Vol. VII.

Junior-Senior Debate to be Held
This Month

The Junior-Senior debate will be
held this fall instead of in the spring, as
formerly. Upon investigation it was
found that nearly all the society con-
tests were scheduled for the spring”
term, so to equalize these contests it
was decided to change the date of the
Junior-Senior debate to November 1.
The question for debate this year is:
“Resolved, That the Labor Unions Are
Beneficial to the Laboring Class.” The!
preliminary debate is to be held October
28 and all members of the societies who ,
are Juniors or Seniors are urged to en-
ter.

Watch the Feathers Fly
Next Saturday
Wildcats With Blood in Their Eyes

to Meet Gamecocks on Lat-
ter’s Own Roost

i
‘

On next Saturday afternoon the
Wildcats will temporarily move to
Columbia to declare war on the Game-
cocks of the University of South Caro-
lina. This game will be of especial in-
terest to all Davidson and South Caro-
lina followers, as it is the first time that
the teams of these institutions have met
since 1915. In that year the Wildcats
were victerious by a score of 13 to 7.

Little is known as to the comparative
strength of the two teams, as they have
not played any games with the same op-
ponents thus far. The Gamecocks lost
their first game to the Presbyterian Col-,
lege of South Carolina by a single!
touchdown. Since that time, however,
they have shown a marked increase in
strength, both on the offensive and de-
fensive.

In last Saturday's struggle with the
University of Georgia they showed up,
particularly well, holding the Crackers
to a 14 to o score, The Georgians
scored in the first quarter and again in
the last few minutes of play. In the
second, third, and early part of the
fourth periods the Gamecocks worked
forward passes and end runs almost at
will. They several times carried the
ball to Georgia's 10-yard line but lacked |
the punch to take it across. The whole
team showed up to good advantage
against their heavier opponents.

The Wildcats, after winning from
Guilford and Wake Forest, have lost
games to Clemson and Washington and
Lee by 7 to 0 scores, and will be out
for blood next Saturday. A hard fought
game is expected.

The probable line-up of the two
teams is as follows:

|

Davidson, U. of S.C.
Miley......... L. E....... Moorman
Hammett...... L. T.....-.Goodman
Romefelt....... L. G........ Thomas
Brady.........2 Co vs..aee E. Smith
LaFar......... R. G....J. McMillan
McMaster..... R. T...M. McMillan
Douglas. .....- R. E.Brockington, (C)
Spann......... Q. B....... Timmons
Black........ L. H. B....... Skinner
Johnston...... R. H. B........ Smith
Shepherd or

Streibich....... F. B...... ee eee Allen

“Y" HAS TREAT IN STORE FOR
NEXT WEEK—DON'T
MISS IT.

The ‘“Y” has been very fortunate in
procuring a speaker for next Sunday’s
service. Dr. Arbuckle has kindly con-
sented to speak and will be gladly heard
by every one. The very fact that Dr.
Arbuckle is going to speak should be an
incentive to a one hundred per cent at-
tendance. Fellows, let's. make the at-|

w

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 15, 1919.

Seniors Show Superiority
in Securing Shekels

Last to Go, but First in Average in
Cotton-Picking Contest

The Seniors proved that although
they were last they were not least:
among the cotton pickers. They tore’
down the records of the other classes
and pyt the class of '20 on top both in
average and individual record.

On the morning of Friday, October :
10, the Seniors stepped down from their!
throne of accustomed dignity and |
launched out into the cotton fields with |
the determination to show up the other
classes, their results heing close to
their determination. Thirty-two men

1

t

No. 7

W. & L. Wins From Wildcats, 7 to 0
---Generals Good Ground Gainers

Plucky Fight Made Against Heavier Opponents—Black, S dH
Individual Stars for Devideon pann anes ammett

Washington and Lee wiped out last’ gain, Davidson attempted to punt. The
year’s defeat at the hands of Davidson punt was blocked, Davidson recovering
by trimming the Wildcats 7 to 0. ‘The! The Generals’ line held and ball went
kame was hard fought on both sides' over. The Blue and White machine
‘from start to finish.. Davidson's de- opened up a series of line plunges, and
fense gave way in the final quarter, how- carried the ball right down within five
ever, and the Generals by straight line, vards of the goal. Here they were pen-
t bucking scored the only touchdown of alized 10 yards for holding. Silverstien
the game, Matson carrying the ball over. | attempted a drop kick from the 1 S-vard

After the first half the Generals had ; line, and missed by inches. Davidson
their “Tar Heel opponents outclassed: secured the ball on their own 20-vard

were stationed at the Puser place and
twelve at Cathey’s. |

When 5:30 came, 39 taned and red-
faced Seniors plodded their weary way |
back to school, bringing with them both |
the class and individual record. The re-
sults of the 39 men being 3541.5
peunds, averaging 85.6 pounds per man,
which averaged over 12 pounds more per!
man than the other classes. This
brought the contest to a close and it
might well be added, it was a howling
success. All credit is due Col. Mueller
fer his most untiring efforts in carrying
the plans out.

The student body wishes to extend
their most hearty thanks ‘to the ladies
of the faculty for the bountiful and de-
licious donations of beverages, cakes,
doughnuts and sandwiches which they
sent ta the cotton pickers.

As prizes in the individual contest,
the White Drug Store and Jetton Drug
Store gave two soda tickets cach. Those
winning from each class are: W. C.
Neal, of the Senior class, with a total
of 212 pounds; N. P. Baber, of the
Junior class, with 126 pounds; G. N.
Neal, of the Sophomore class, with 260

in every stage of the game. “Phe Wild-
cat backfield was unable to gain through
ithe heavier line of W. & L. and was
| forced to resort to end runs. Forward
Passes were completely smothered by the
| Generals, when they would simply cut:
Douglas and Miley off their feet by!
their terrific defensive. Only one pass
(in eight tries was completed by the Red
and Black aggregation. On the other
chand Washington &
pulled off six or seven aerial attacks, the
ends getting around their opponents’
line in quick fashion. “The White and
Blue machine gained most of its ground
[through the line. ,Phe lighter line of
» Davidson could not hold up under the
constant hammering of the Generals’
offensive and although it did not at any
‘time except) once break, holes were
opened up inte it on nearly every line
play. Washington and Lee did very
i little paining around the ends.
Silverstien, the big Washington and
Lee fullback, did most of the ground
; gaining for the winners, He tore
Wildcats made such an enviable record. | through the line by his spectacular line
The team of that) year was famous } plunging, gaining from three to eight
throughout all Southern football for its yards on nearly every play. In the last

Spann, Leader of the Wild-
cats, Gri i
of the Gridiron

Is Recognized as One of the South’s
Best Quarters

Henry Spann, captain of this year's
football team, has shown himself to be
one of the best quarterbacks the South
has seen for many seasons. His reputa-
tion was established in 1917 when the

pyirds, D

Lee successfully) went over,

line, and advanced the ball to midfield.
The half, ended with the ball in Wash-
ington and Lee’s possession in midfield.

Davidson received the kick-off and
ran the ball back to the 30-yard line.
Phey failed to gain and were forced to.
punt. Washington and Lee ran the
punt back to midfield and began an
aertal attack which netted them 25
avidson's line held and the ball
Davidson gained a few
yards but failed to make first down,
Washington and Lee completed two
successful forward passes and advanced
.the ball to Davidson's three-vard line.
Matson carried the ball over for the
only touchdown on an off guard play.
Goal was kicked. Washington and L.ce
7: Davidson o. The ball ‘remained in
midfield during the remainder of the
quarter.

Ac the beginning of the fourth quar-
iter Davidson played hard for a spurt -
and then the line began to weaken.
Silverstien tore off five and six yards at
a time and finally advanced the ball to
_ Davidson's lo-yard line. Washington
>and Lee fumbled and recovered. Silver-
slien carried the ball to the two-vard

‘

pounds, Out of the Senior class, A. R.
Craig and J_-4-Flunter tied for second
place with 210 pounds apiece.

The amount and average of cach class
is as follows:

Freshman: 152 picking, 9.500 pounds,
average 62.5.

Sophomore: 94
peunds, average 63.3.
an fo Heine. 3.420 pounds, uses these talents most efficiently.

sore “Le ' As leader of the 1919 Wildcats he
won est picking, 3,766.5 pounds. will no doubt pilot them through a most

The total being: 339 men picking. successful season.

22.680.5 pounds, averaging approxi- TT
mately 70 pounds to the man, clearing Five New Men Allott
Berths in Report-

picking, 5,985

about $250.

Brass Band Begins to Beat: ers’ Club
---Government to Fur- All Reporters Receive Reward in th
nish Instruments eWay of fed

Initiation into the Davidsonian Re-
;perters’ Club on Thursday night, al-
(though omitted in last week's printed

Practice Already Begun With Limited
Number of Pieces—To Have
Twenty-Eight-Piece Band

—_— are putting the spark in the ‘“Livest
| Wire on the Hill.” The five candi{
' dates, who have proven themselves pro-
ificient and willing during the past year

lwere duly initiated and after a short
i and snappy business meeting, were the
cotton picking had been jn progress for | guests of the club at a feed. Those ta-
two days, Colonel Mueller received in-' ken in were E. N. Booker. R. T. L.
formation that the college would be fur- Liston, D. L. Mahood, J. M. Dunlap,
nished band instruments by the govern- and J. C. Wool.
ment. This eliminates the necessity for’ Initiation ceremonies were formally
the students using the proceeds from the opened when the candidates entered the
cotton picking for the band. ‘room as human wheelbarrows, a la
The band will consist of at least. squad formation. After unblinding.
twenty-cight pieces and probably more.! they looked at themselves in the black-
The organization will be attached to board and received an impression of
the R. O. T. C. and will have the fol-| what they looked like—poor ‘possum
lowing officers: One band leader, one} Next followed a short article by each.

Although the band has not been per-
manently organized, rapid progress has
been made toward that end. The in-
struments are now on the way and
should be here in a few days. After the

| calendar, was a big event to those who |

Four were on the national question of

tendance what it should be.

assistant band leader, one sergeant a

(Continued on Page 8) (Continued on Page 8)

mastery of the fordward passing style! minute of play he got loose, and ran go line and the whistle blew ending the
of game, and Spann was the-man be-' ’ ,
hind the ball, being able time after time
to hurl the ball with unerring accuracy
into the hands of one of his team-mates.
The Atlanta Journal has commented
frequently upon his phenomenal passing.

Spann is endowed with that grit,
nerve and aggressiveness such as charac-
terize the successful quarter, and he is
constantly evidencing the fact that he

yards before heing downed. ‘The whis-| game.

tle blew before play could be resumed — Final score: Washin
and Washington and Lee ,was robbed Davidson o.

of another probable touchdown, with’) — Line-up:

gton and Lee 7:-

only six yards to go. Silverstein: will) Davidson. Position, W.E&L
return to the University of Pennsylvania. Miley... 0... .. L. Eo... ee, Daves
ifrom all) accounts. ‘Turner Bethel.) Hammett. ..... L. Te... oe... Moore
Richmond lad, also played a remarkable} Davis... 2.2... wL. Gi... 0... Bailey
defensive ame, He has been out of the, Brady... 2.0... a kee ee eee Page
Generals’ line-up for the’ past year and! Romefelt.......R.G....... Stanford
this presence greatly strengthened the! McMaster... .. R. T....:..... Bethel
line. “Mac” Cogbill, former Randolph-| Douglas. ....... R. E......... Collins
Macon and Eastern Virginia star, ran Spann......... Q. B......... Coghill
, the team at quarter and his good judge- Streihich. .. 2... F. B...._. .Silverstien
‘ment undoubtedly figured largely in the; Johnson... ..... L. H.......... Raines
Blue and White victory. Black. ........ R. H........, Matson
j Jack Black and Johnny Johnson were! Substitutes: Washington and Lee

the outstanding players on the offense
for Davidson. ‘Their end runs contrib-
uted largely to the ground gained by
the Wildcats. Henry Spann continued
|his good management of the team, and College: timekeeper, Waters. W. & L
did well in piloting it as he did, being , ce a
| limited in the plays he could run against

the heavier Washington and Lee line. |
Hammett proved to be the outstanding
unit of the Davidson defense, and Mat-

Mattox for Daves; Davidson. Cassell
. for Streibich.

Officials: Referee, Walford, Western
Maryland ; umpire, Robinson, Richmond

Intellectual suicide is a negative rath-
er than a positive process,

‘son, the Generals’ right half, gained!" * * ‘eer awe # «
very little in over tackle plays. . .
| Washington and Lee received the ball { * CALENDAR. .
.in the first quarter and advanced the | * .
ball to Davidson's 30-yard line. Here! * Wednesday — “Davidsonians” ar- *
the Wildcat defense stiffened and the|* rive ? ? ? ? ? *
ball went over on downs. Davidson was! * Thursday Night, 7:30—Bible Class *
‘playing her best during the entire game'" — Leaders’ Meeting *
and by a series of end runs and over;* Friday Night, 8:00— Movies— *
tackle plays succeeded in advancing the!* Wallace Reid in “Nan of Music *
ball to Washington and Lee's to-yard;* = Mountain.” 4
line. The necessary punch was lacking! * Saturday—Davidson vs. University *
and Davidson lost her only chance toi* — of S. C.. at Columbia, S. C. .
score. The hall went over and Wash-|* Saturday Night—Literary Societies, *
ington and Lee being unable to advance,!* Sunday Morning, 10:00—Bible ®
punted to midfield, Davidson advanced|* | Classes—Chapter IV, *
the hall to the 30-yard line, and here} * Sunday Night. 7:30—“Y" Meet- *
lost it on downs. The quarter ‘ended|* —ing—Dr. Arbuckle Speaks.
with the ball in Washington and Lee’s|* Monday Night, 7:00—Junior ®
possession on their own 35-yard line. |* Literary Societies. bel
. Davidson held the Generals for downs | * *,
evr mes -~7T 8 @e e020 6 8

and the ball went over. Unable to

FIFTEEN For COL. MUELLER, the MAN WHO MAKES THINGS GO
