We Annour -e the Largest Enrollment in the History

417 nr
see) DL

E DAViDSONIAN

the College

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. SEPTEMBER 10, 1919.

Opening Address Delivered
By Dr. Wm. J. Martin

Numbers Alone is Not Success—Must Grow Not Only Bigger But Better.

Dr. Martin delivered in chapel Mon-
day morning the address which it is his
custom to make incidental to the open-
ing of the college year. ‘This address is
made on Monday, instead of the preced-
ing ‘Thursday, in order to save every
possible monyent of time when affairs
are in the congested state which regis-
tration always produces.

Dr. Martin read a part of the second
chapter of Philippians, taking as the
text of his address the fourth verse of
that chapter: ‘‘Lovk not every man on
his own things, but every man also on
the things of others.” He mentioned
with evident pleasure the fact that the
Greater Davidson Clib had reached its
objective—four hundred students. He
said that in the normal course of events
this must be followed by a still further
growth; because the present large fresh-
man class is a forecast of large sopho-
more, junior and senior classes. in the
future. He emphasized the fact that,
having fulfilled the first part of its motto
in making a bigger Davidson, the Great-
er Davidson Club and all other loyal
friends of the college must now join in
fulfilling the rest of the motto by mak-
ing a better Davidson.

He said that he believed that he was
able.to.return to his duties only as a re-
sult of answered prayer, and so felt that
his life was, in) anew and peculiar
sense, dedicated to the service of the
college. He spoke of the menacing un-
rest of the laboring classes in all parts
of the world, and said that this was only
to be quieted by the devoted service of
conscientious Christian men.

He urged the students of Davidson
College to “Jook not every man on his
own things. but every man also on the
things of others;:” to live a life of ser-
vice, not of selfishness; and thus to en-
rich the life of the college while they
were in it, and to make their lives a
ferce for good in the world.

College Opens With a
Rush; Great Year
Ahead.

Greater Davidson Club Goes “Over
the Top”; Largest Enrollment
in History of College. '

No longer is the four hundred of New
York unique. When Davidson College
opened up for the year nineteen hundred
and nineteen-twenty an assembly of
young men from all over the civilized
world and Florida had assembled at this
spot where learning is cherished. The
Greater Davidson Club has done its
work and done it well. At the time of
this writing four hundred and fourteen
of the young men of this land had signed
up for courses at this historic institution.
All the commodious cars which were
run by the Southern Railway on Tues-
day, Wednesday and Thursday of last
week were taxed to the utmost to care
for the inpouring crowds of young men
who have chosen this college to start
them off in life. Davidson, as a small
college, has had several alumni who
have taken a high rank in the affairs of
the state, the country and of the world.
When the United States wanted a pres-
ident they chose an alumnus of old Da-
vidson. When the whole world was in
a state of chaos it was a former student
of this place who pointed the way by
which men might escape from their con-
dition of wretchedness. It is little won-
der that in this age that tries the tem-
per of the souls and hearts of men, when
all the world is looking to the educated

men of the English-speaking countries of
the world to lead the way from the
shadow of the great war into a new era,
the young men of today have come to
the same institution which Woodrow
Wilson attended for preparation for
their life’s work.

The students, both new and old. as-
sembled for the first time at chapel on
‘Thursday morning. Dr, Martin began
the greatest year in the history of the
college with the reading of scripture and
prayer. He welcomed the students and
said no more and nothing else was nec-
essary. “The manner in which he spoke.
even more than what he said showed
that he had returned with a high heart
and with great hopes to guide the col-
lege through this year which promises so

“anuch even as ‘he had stood by it during

the dark days that proved the fore-run-
ner of this glorious year. :

Colonel Mueller called out all of the
men who were intending to take the R.
O. ‘PT. C. course this year and they met
on the athletic field ‘Thursday morning
immediately after chapel. ‘The appoint-
ments of officers for the current year
were announced and the would-be re-
servists were divided into two hattal-
ions of three companies each. ‘The com-
manding officer then explained the. aim
and plans of the organization in a few
well-selected words. Uniforms have
been issued to members of the upper
classes who took the military training
last year and who intend to follow in
their own footsteps again this year.

Mr. Jackson has been about the bus-
iest man on the hill ever since the first
freshman came in—almost two weeks
ago, The genial business manager seems
to be in his office at all times and yet if
there is anything to be done in any of
the dormitories he is always on hand to
see that it is done and in many cases to
do it himself.

The dormitories are full, Louisiana is
crowded, many of the boys are rooming
out in town, and yet accommodations
are being arranged for all the men who
come in.

The Greater Davidson Club set as its
goal four hundred men, ‘That mark
was passed several days ago and_ still
they are coming in. Why so
freshmen have come probably Mr. Miles
alone can tell; why so many of the old
men are back everyone who has ever
been to Davidson well knows.

And now it i> for the students to

put behind them the memuries of those |

incomparable summer nights when the
zephyrs whispered their tales of love to
the fairies who dwelt in the highest
boughs of the loftiest oaks and the thou-
sand fire flies flitted to and fro unnoticed
in the dell, for the forlorn Fresh of to-
day was then with the only one—for
him. But now is the day for work.
Though with sadness we say it, still we
admit that it is true to make the most
of the year we must make the work of
the year our chief concern. So it is for
us to look forward to the future with
hopeful hearts and endless enthusiasm.
forgetful of ourselves, if need be, that
Davidson College may go forward to
that wonderful work on which she has
so auspiciously entered.

The Davidsonian is an asset of the
College. It is valuable from the stand-
point of the College, the student body
and the Alumni. All of these interests
should take pride in its continued suc-
cess and see to it that its growth in-
creases from year to year.

many

Facts and Near-Facts
About Literary Societies

Discussion of Societies for the Benefit
of New Men.

Krom the standpoint of historic inter-
est, the literary societies at Davidson
should at once command the interest of
every new man on the Hill. Both the
Eumenean and the Philanthropic were
founded the same year as the Cotlege.
1837. They are thus the oldest student
organizations on the campus. And ‘Il
through their checkered career of cigyity-
three years, they have preserved their
ideals, integrity, and individuality.

Avery interesting piece of history
connected with the Philanthrapic Se-
ciety is the story of the chandelier in
the society hall. [t is said to have been
originally an ornament in one of | the
halls of the palace of? Napoleon at. Ver-
sailles. lt is said that under it the
Child of Destiny was married. When
Napoleon's Empire crumbled, Marshal
Ney, so the story goes, fled to America,
bringing with him this chandelier. Be-
coming, interested in the foundation of
Davidson College. he designed its seal
and contributed his historic chandelier
to one of its literary societies,

When Woodrow Wilson was a stu-
dent at Davidson, he was a member of
the Fumenearn Society; and, as its sec-
retary, made a: copy of its constitution
which is still: preserved in. the society
archives. “Vhus, in joining the Mume-
nean Society a man is following in the
footsteps of Woudrow Wilson, S. Hor-
ton Askew, and other distinguished men,

History is net the only claim, nor
even the principal one, of the literary
societies upon the interest of the stu-
dent. In a peculiar sense, their line of
work is one of great importance in the
intellectual life of the campus; theirs is
a considerable part in the development
of the mental faculties of the college
man. No man can afford to stay out of
literary ‘society work if he hopes for a
well-rounded development.

The marshals at junior and
speaking and = at conmnencement
elected by the literary sucieties. “Vhe
inter-collegiate debating teams, which
represent the college in’ the only con-
tests of brains in which the college takes
part, are chosen from literary society
men, cach speaker receiving a gold de-
bater's emblem. ‘Phere are held cach

senior
are

year three inter-society contests; — the
fresh-soph declamation — contest, — the

fresh-soph debate, and the junior-senior
debate, two medals being offered in each
contest. Mach society offers also an es-
say medal; and the societies jointly of-
fer the fiction medal and the junior ora-
tor’s medal. “Fhe Eumenean Society
offers an improvement medal in its
freshman society. All told, the literary
societies offer more medals than the ¢ol-
lege and all other organizations on the
Hill.

It is customary that men from North
Carolina shall join the
Society and: that men from. all other
States shall join the Eumeanean. Men
from the town of Davidson, realizing
its good standing, frequently break over
the custom and join the Eumenean So-
ciety.

Both societies extend a cordial wel-
come to all students of Davidson Col-
lege.

It is gratifying to all of the friends
of the College, and especially to the
Alumni, to note the lagge attendance
this year—the largest matriculation in
the history of the College.

This is no accident, but due largely
to the well earned and well known rep-
utation of the College for its thorough-
ness of instruction, strict discipline, abil-
ity of the faculty and characteristic en-
vironments thrown around the campus.

Philanthropic -

Freshmen Honored by
Splendid Recept‘on

New Men Cordially Entertained—Mov-
ies and Eats Play Large Part.

“Variety is the Spice ot Lite” and
that is what the freshman class of Da-
vidson enjoyed Monday night at the an-
nual fresh reception held in’ the gym-
nasium., With plenty of “pep” and bar-*
rels ot the old Red and Black spirit the
class of °23 was formally welcomed into
the Alma Mater.

The first-event of the occasion was is
set ot cheers and yells, led -by Hugh
Carey, class of ‘tz. hose old steel
beams in the top of the “gym” just nat=
urally shook wath the roar that went up.
Believe Steve! this was one time when
the fresh were heard as well as seen,
and it did the upperclassmen good to
see them enter with so much enthusi-
asin. .

“Bob™ Miles opened up tormalities
with a shore Gilk, introducing Henry
Spann, crack quarterback of the prid-
iron sqoad. ts he a team by himself?
PH say he is! Peary made a few en-
coursging remarks on the prospects of a
bang-up team, and introduced Coach
“Pete” Crayton, who is at the helm of
Wildcat athletics this year.

After a few complimentary remarks
in honor of Coach “Bill” Fetzer, who
has left Davidson and gone to A. & E.,
Coach Crayton made several remarks
which will certainly burn deep into the
heart of every one who heard him.
“Play the game for the game's sake—
play as you are coached and let the score
take care of itself." What did Coach
say about Davidson spirit in N. C.? He
sud: “We admit that we have the best
spirit and others acknowledge it.” And
tell a Davidson man that that ts not so
and you will have started the war all
over again.

Cassel, speaking: in behalf of the Da-
vidsonian, hit the keynote with a smash
when he said it was the “Live Wire of.
the Fill.” Mr. R. M. Miller, of Char-
Jotte, No C., president of the Alumni
Association, followed with a: short, talk
in which he said. that it is up to this,
the biggest student body Davidson has
ever known, to protect the honor that
the former pradaates wave to Davidson.
Colonel Muller, at the head of the R.
QO. PL C. training, welcomed the new
men into that organization warmly, and
promised faithfully that they would see
and hear of him again. “Be able to do
a thing, do it when you are told, and
then have the confidence that you can
do it again.” Such was an extract from
his short talk of welcome.

After these short talks, the social end
of the program was entered into. ‘The
faculty and their wives received — the
freshmen and visitors in the “Y" room,

Do those fresh like cream? ‘hey surely,

did make themselves perfectly at home
when it came to that part of the pro-
gram. But alas! “Teo much frolic, at-
tractive. maidens, ice cream, punch, and
then more punch, was one too many for
the “Little Brothers of Davidson,” and
Dr. Martin had to announce the hos-
pital hours the next morning in chapel.
yVhe evening's entertainment wound
up with a movie entitled “The Little
American,” with Mary Pickford  star-
ring. Little Mary had a wonderfully
inspiring effect on all present, and it
was all the old men could do to keep
the freshmen from “packing up their
troubles in their ald kit bag” and chang-
ing their occupation to that of a film
artist.
_ After the picture, concluding the pro-
gram, the receptions by the fraternities
was held in the respective halis.

Among those present were: Misses
Flizabeth Durham, Mary Stuart Alex-
ander, Elizabeth Miller, Corinne Gib-
bon, Julia Baxter Scott, DeWitt. Chat-

Continued on page 7

No. 2

Here’s the “Dopx
About New Coach

Pete Crayton Succeeds Fetzer as Coach
—A Man of Wide Experi-
ence and Ability.

.
‘ we.
neti, ©
i

| dil rs} wee

Outside of the regular class room
work the excellent athletic standard
which this Cullege has always maintain-
ed is probably the biggest feature of the
institution, The enviable reputation
which we-have so long enjoyed through-
out the South has been a drawing card
which no money could buy. Wherever
a Davidson team is playing: everybody
knows that a clean, hard fight ts being
put up, the kind that any college fan is
looking for. In building up this record
too much credit cannot be given to
Coach “Bill” Fetzer and his brothers
who went before him.

In view of this fact it is nor at all
unusual that the news of Coach Fet-
wer's resignation should be received with
some degree of anxiety. With the same
spirit which has always characterized
the Davidson teams the College ser out

to find a man to succeed Coach Fetzer.

Their splendid efforts were early re
warded and the one man who could
really take his place was secured.

Coach f.. B. Crayton, a resident of
(Charlotte, graduated in’ the class of
1015. During his four years’ stay at
Davidson he was known, and liked by
every student, “Pete,” as he was known
in those days, was the star end in, foot-
ball and played first base on the base-
ball nine. Some of the members of the
present senior-class will recall how of- .
ten the name of “Pete” Cravton was
mentioned to them by those who had
seen him in action, |

After leaving Davidson, Coach Cray-
ton succeeded Fetzer at Fishburne and
for two years turned out winning teams.
He also became very popular with the
men whom he was training. Soon af-
ter this country entered the’ war Coach
Crayton enlisted and was sent to the
first officers’ training camp. He was
commissioned in the artillery and help-
ed to organize the Piedmont Battery.

As a first’ lieutenant he went to
France and saw active service at St.
Mihiel and in the Argonne, besides other
important engagements, His promotion
was rapid and at the time of his dis-
charge he held the rank of major.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, who won the name
cf the “fighting parson,’ was chaplain
in his regiment and when told that
Craytoh was to coach the Davidson
teams, he remarked: “There is no bet-
ter man you could have found anywhere,
I have fought, slept, and lived with
“Pete” through the hardest kind of
fighting and | know him. He's all man
himself and knows how to handle other

Continued on page 7

WE HAVE OUR 400. LET’S HAVE PLENTY OF “PEP”
