Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Class of ’14 Reunion

Scheduled This May

President of Class Sounds the War-
whoop for Big Attendance.

‘Toronto, Canada, April 2, 1919.
Fellows of Fourteen: .

Although I have been in touch with
some of you recently ,it behooves me, as
alumni president of the class to address
this communication to all of you through
‘lhe Davidsonian.

May 25-28 is the time and Davidson
College is the place to which your at-
tention is invited. It is almost “Nuff-
sed,” but for fear something might have
distracted your mental machinery, I sug-
gest that you recall the fifth anniversary
of our graduation falling at the tine
specified, According to all of our rules,
regulation and precedents we are slated
to gather at Davidson for a grand cele-
bration, ’

Only two excuses will be accepted from
men not attending: First, distance; sec-
ond, dire calamity. [fa man is still in
France or some other distant part of the
world we shall hardly expect him to at-
tend. Or, if some extraordinary circum-
stances develop over which he has no
control, he might be allowed to report
“absent”

However, if you are a clergyman, ex-
plain the urgency of your contemplated
absence to the flack, get someone to fill
the pulpit and buy a ticket for Davidson.
An the event that you have become a phy-
sician, leave a generous’ supply of sugar-
coated pills with the chronic patients.
Should you be a lawyer, just postpone

a

PLAN NOW FOR COMMENCEMENT

Double Nines Coming
To Commencement

Banquet Scheduled for this Twenty
Year-Olds.

Gastonia, N. C., April 2, 1919.
To the Class of ’99 Everywhere:
Dear Classmates:

It will be twenty years in May since
we graduated from Davidson ‘College
and | am writing to know if you do
not think we ought to get together to
“talk it over.” McConnell says he will
arrange for a banquet for us. We will
draft Mapor (‘Pleas.”) Matheson as
toastmaster and Haney and Johnny
Ward will speak for us. Commencement
is from May 25th to 28th. We can meet
on Tuesday at noon. Bring the wives
and kiddies along. .We insist on this for
Henry Stokes and Luke Beall and “Kid”
Smith.

Yours for a reunion of the nines.

S. A. Robinson.

Davidson Men In the
Service of Our\Country

Civil War

In the Civil War 298 men were
known to have entered the service;
81 of these were graduates and 217 did
not receive a degree. These represented
a total matriculation of 1,039, and
classes from 1840 to 1869. Of this num-
ber 80 gave their lives and others died
after the war from wounds and diseases

that case until next court. Perchance
(and may the fates be kind to you!) you
are a “near benedict” and the nuptials

are scheduled for, say May 26th, have ; Nt ;
the date changed. You can commit mat-| © Cok Don Scott, “f the 120th Infantry, which paraded in Charlotte, N. Major Generals Ro I
rimony most any time, but this 1919} the class’ of nesday oF ast week, is anold Davidson man. He graduated with |, or i. METAS we eee sree eens

commencement will occur once only.| genes nett 07 an ‘, ‘i hough very young, was one of the most popular stu- Re one Toate bode eeeeeees 17.
Maybe you don't come under any of these} gents ort re schoo “5 ter his college career had ended, Colonel Scott went Asst aN die onels Genera Ro 1
heads—then be there anyhow. lniusual ne at Burlington, N. C., and his business life has been marked with Lie . iol enerals ...-... 2
We shall be the infant “seunioning” SUaAl Sur cess. , Mien olonels sce e wer nees 3
class and it is highly necessary that we At the time of America’s entrance into the war he went to the first |g, AJOTS eevee eens veeees oes soul
be there in full force with a lusty yell officers’ training camp at Oglethrope, Ga., where he was commissioned. Hav- Pavmaste short ss sre tseeseces 10
when the curtain rises for the festivities. ing had some previous military experience he rose very rapidly to the rank Corning testes rete teenies 1
A reserved seat is assured for ‘14, and of major. “Then he was made a Lieutenant Colonel and now is the com- Adutan uteee shores ences 4!
unless the planets stop abruptly, YOU manding officer of the 120th Infantry. + jutants ........ 0. eee eee we 5S
must make arrangements to attend. J his regiment was a part of the Thirticth Division, better known as Aide Ladd e eee bee eeees 38
gly yours, the “Old Hickory” division, which broke the Hindenburg line. Se es .. M stb eens teeeeees 2

Robert W. Guthrie. Sergeants AJOTS ... cece eee cee 4

. —_————— . ° AMS ores bee eee cee eee 10,
STUDENT BODY EXPRESSES COMMENCEMENT PROGRAMME. Chaplains sie Gongree 9
ENT BODY ont AT aTMENTL 0 em Te te Treasury ww. 2
COOPERATION WITH ALUMNI A. M_B Sunday, May 25th. In Confederate Treasury ........ 1

ae 11 A. M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. J. Ls i FIVATES 260. vee ee ee eee e eee 1
To the Alumni: ton, West Virginia. J. Layton Mauze, D. D., Hunting. Sundry positions of trust ........ 4

Now that the war is over let’s have
a regular alumni reunion. The student
body of Davidson College wishes to ex-
press its interest and hearty co-opera-
tion, in making this year's commence-| 10 A. M.—Class Day Exercises.
ment the very best ever. All alumni, we} + P. M.—Musical Entertainment by the Davidson College Glee Club
hope, will make every effort in their pow- 8 P. M.—Annual Reunion of the Eumcnean and Philanthropic Lite ry §
er to be here May 25 and we feel sure cieties, Tary 9o-
that all will be amply repaid by a visit Tuesday May 27th
to their Alma Mater. Remember, that! 9 A. M— : . ° °
the student body is looking for you and > \ Annual Gicctine of the Board of Trustees.

8 P. M.—Annual Sermon Before the Y. M. C. A., Dr. D. Clay Lilly, Wins-

ton-Salem, N. C. European War

In the European war, so far as we
can yet ascertain, 625 men were in serv-
ice, exclusive of the 223 in the S. A.
T. C. Of these there are the follow-
ing commissioned officers:

Brigadier Generals ............

Monday, May 26th.

1
Colonels .. 2... 0. 0... eeeeee
Lieutenant Colonels ..  ........ 2
Majors ...... 6. .... ceeeee ? 8

incurred in it.
. Rank as compiled from the Semi-
Col. Don E. Scott, Commander of the 120th Infantry Regiment—A Davidson Man |Centen Catalogue issued in 1891. “m

ill welcome you as best it can. Don’t te.

disappoint us. y Announcement of Distinctions. Captains ...... .... .....025. 25
(Signed) J. H. Miller, Jr. Presentatien of Prizes and Trophies First Lieutenants ...... .......

President Student Body. | 3 P. M.—Class Reunions. _ Second Lieutenants ............ 1

é r M.—Memorial Service in honor of Alumni who died in the world war. Ensigns .... 2.2. ..0. sesseeee 13

“What became of Piute Pete?” asked . M. Annual Meeting of Alumni Association. ° Nineteen have made the su i-

8:20 P , preme sacri

the visitor at Crimson Gulch. :30 P. M.—Oratorical Contest between Literary Societies. fice and nineteen others are known t

10 P. M.—General Reception of Student Organizations. have been wounded. Seven received med.

“He joined the army,” answered
Broncho Bob. ° Wednesday, May 28th.

“Thought he was too old to fight.” Commencement Day

“He was. But he was such a fighter} 11 A. M.—Annual Lit . :
that nobody dast tell him.”—Washing- fayette College. Address, Dr. J. H. McCracken, President of La-
ton Star. 12 M.—Graduating Exercises. Conferring of Degrees.

als for distinguished service,

CRITICISM.
woes your wife sing?”
t—that’s a matter of opinion.”—
Boston Transcript. sron opinron.

SUBSCRIPTION CAMPAIGN: Our Goal: Every
