DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Clase of '15
“Tho Livest Wire on the Hill”

The

“Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

..Eéltor-in-Chief

8 4 Fay RE ceseee eee! brereeeeenes Mienosing Editor
3. BR. BOULWARE, Jr......ccccesceccccecenssseacceseccnceneueuessnescee Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK......

KILL. oi cccsccccccccccacccevevs sess ssesssesesessersaerecesree gas Alumni Editor
b. Se teHAT ag III Exchange Faltor
4, SPENCE... ‘Campus Bditor
L. G. CALHOUN MC. A, Editor
K. Lu WILSON... .ccccscscscccccccccsnccesesceceensescnssseness ens eae resents Sociai Edito:
J. Me GASTON, Ir... ccccccesnccccccccccccenccnccrevscuccessnsseesens anaes Literary Editor
RK. R. JWAINEL sssssccccsvesscccresccerssenoncsccscssoeaereceres Gificial Photographer
C. H. LONG. uu... 22 en one new ene nen emcee cnen answer nneees ..--Acting Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

W. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD

J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHELL
R. BITZER B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES

T. F. MARTIN WwW. W. MOORE

J. W. PHILLIES J. M. RICHARDS
E. H. TUFTS 3. C. WOOL

BOOKER

L. LISTON
CRAIG
CUNNINGHAM
M. GILMER

J. P. PRICE

BN.
R. T.
R R.
cB.
J.

R. F. Davidson, F. -E. Manning, A. P. Ormand, C. Green, G. W

Additional Reporers; W. A. Gamble and W. J. Cooper.
-Business Manager

Mauze, M. P. Calhoun, J. C. Bailey,

GC. J. MATTHBWS.......ssccccccccevtccerssscescccssseoccsocsesesseees ‘Business Moneger
L E ORHIS TER. ePeTTT TTT TIT Terrier .Circulation Manager
Cc. LONG......cccsccccccccsccvsccccvecccones ‘Assistant Managers
A. Mi MITCHBLL,.......c-ccccccovcsccvosccvoes

EDITORIAL

An itemized Thanksgiving account. We are thankful:

That
That
That

That
tended.

That

That
has been

That
That
That

there are only eight more days of classes.

P. C. has not a good drop kicker.

“fire’ will be abundant Saturday.

the “Reds” have subsided and Christmas holidays are ex-

Senior Speaking comes only once in a lifetime.

the health of the student body has improved sifce sick call
doctored.

nobody has been killed in campus football.
chapel doesn’t meet at 5:00 a.m.

none of the faculty has expired.

LET US BE THANKFUL.

N the excitement over football games and in the pleasures of the
I holiday let us not forget the real purpose for which Thanksgiving
day was sct aside. Many of our national holidays have come to

mean little to us beyond the actual relief we get from the cessation
of the daily routine and in the accompanying festivities of the day.
Originally Thanksgiving was a religious day and was observed by suit-
able ceremonies. Today it is looked upon in a different light but its
true spirit should not be forgotten.

There are many things both nationally and locally for which ~we
should be truly thankful. Our nation has emerged from the war as the
leader in international affairs and facing a brighter future than any
other country on the globe. Our Southland has been especially blessed
in this era of prosperity and is preparing to take the influential position
which it has so long deserved.

In our own particular sphere we have every reason to feel grati-
fied. We are in the midst of the biggest and best year the college has
ever known. The enrollment has far surpassed that of any other year
and a progressive spirit has taken hold which promises to lead to big-
ger and better things.

In the pleasures of the holiday let us not forget to return thanks to
the “Giver of every good and perfect gift” for the many blessings which
we have enjoyed.

REMEMBER OTHERS.

HE Y. M. C. A. has for a long time endeavored to provide and
maintain a loafing room for the students. Last year another
attempt was made which so far has met with unusual success.

The “Y” has done its part nobly but the students have not done theirs.

In order for the room to fulfill the service for which it was in-
tended every man should consider the other fellow. Magazines and
college weeklies have been provided and it seems that when a student
has glanced over them he either walks away with the paper or renders
it useless for the man who is tofollow. Every week the Saturday
Evening Post is purloined by some industrious reader and the college
papers are invariably scattered around or torn completely up.

The piano and victrola have to be repaired on the average of once
a week. A letter has just been received from the piano dealer stating
that he finds the instrument has been seriously abused and that the
works have been injuriously tampered with. When a roll has been play-
ed instead of putting it back in the box and in its proper place it is
frequently left out on the piano and thrown over on the table.

The consequence is that the men who really want to use the room
for recreation purposes are deprived of their pleasure by the careless-
ness and utter thoughtlessness of a few of the students. The room is
yours but nat yours alone. Try to keep it so everybody can use it and
not make it a one-man proposition.

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please
feel at liberty to doso. Let’s have more
discussion, pro or con, by the students
on college problems from now on.)

Sick Call.

Before the Soph cotton picking
the faculty was too lenient with
sick call. After more than 100 boys
answered the sick call in one week,,

tor|they decided to make the law strict.

Now it is too strict. In order for
a man to get excused he must take
a room at the infirmary and pay
$1.25 per day to stay there. If he
feels that he is not sick enough to
stay at the infirmary he has to
either cut classes without excuse or
go on them in a very unprepared
and sick condition. Some [fellows
go to the infirmary feeling too bad
to go on classes or to study and yet
they do not feel like their condition
justifies staying there. They ‘will
naturally cut classes, stay in their
rooms and get a card to appear l.e-
fore the absence committee. .
There are a number of boys who
have classes at every hour the sick
call comes. When they answer sick
call, they must cut classes. If they
do not want to stay at the infirmary
they get unexcused absences.
There are a lots of fellows who feel
like they cannot pay the price un-
less they are sick enough to have a
nurse. The hospital is a lonesome
edifice and most boys feel like de-
manding pay for having to stay
there. We do not want to criticise
or condemn the faculty in regard to
the sick call, but every one will
agree that it is unjust to force a
man to stay in the infirmary before
he is excused. The doctor ought to
he able to know whether a boy is
sick or not. Sick call ought to be
held when it is accessible to all or
else excuse ought to be granted un-
der less strict conditions. When our
parents send us to college they
think us men enough to know what
to do and if a man is not excused
when he has to cut classes to meet
sick call, and does not stay in the
infirmary, it is very likely his pa-
rents will agree with him in his ac-
tions. Our parents have to pay our
expenses and they don’t want a
larger bill than necessary. We all
feel that a more thorough investi-
gation ought to be, made of the
matter. O. T.

The College Assistants.

It becomes more and more evi-
dent every day that the plight of
the college professor is not con-
fined to any one college or group of
colleges. The profession of teach-
ing in colleges in threatened all over
America. The reason for all this
can be reduced to one cause, name-
ly, the lack of funds to offer the
best men as an inducement to en-
ter or stay in the teaching profes-
sion.

Many of the colleges at present
are using a number of assistants in
carrying on regular class work that
demands a_ first-class professor to
present. These assistants are usu-
ally the best students in college, but
at that it is an injustice to students
who are after the best that can be
gotten from a college life. Assist-
ants are not live fountains from
which a super-abundance of knowl-
edge flows and a college teacher
should be just such a personage.
The older college professors who
are trying to keep up a high stand-
ard in their departments find it im-
possible with a staff of inadequate,
amateur assistants, though these
latter may be the best in college.

One of the greatest assets to a
country is its colleges. From them
the captains of industry, business,
and of all walks of life are drawn.
Action for relief of the professors
trying to carry on work that will
train these most needed chieftains
is worthy of the consideration of
the national government, and the
wealthy men who have at heart the
future of America. It is not a ques-
tion of “come over into Macedonia
and help us,” but an issue of awak-
ening the governmental authorities
and having the wealthy men touch

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1919

OPEN FORUM ||

Ei
Il

D)

—— es
EXCHANGE |
COLUMN |

| [—i‘(asé

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor's Note: “The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading
college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish news that will interest all who
are acquainted with college life. The
editor reserves the right, however, to
criticise, misquote or burn any and all
exchanges).

Fresh Challenge Sophs.

The Freshman Class of Columbia
University have challenged the Soph-
omore Class to an inter-class debate.
As yet, the Sophs have failed to answer
the challenge, and it looks like the new
men will be awarged the debate by de-
fault——The Columbia Spectator.

No Future for a Fourth.

A survey of the students of Agnes
Scott finds that one-fourth of the old
students have no plans laid for life
after graduation —The A gonistic.

Can't some of us help ‘em lay their
plans?

Wake Up, Davidson!

We are expecting the Carolina Glee
Club on November the twenty-first.
This anticipated evene will be in the
auditorium at eight o'clock. Get your
fifty cents ready immediately, because
you know nobody will want to miss this
treat—The Carolinian.

o

their purse for enough means to
“pull their own bacon out of the
fire."—Ex,

.

Delegates to Des Moines.

Trinity is arranging to send four
student delegates to the Volunteer Con-
ference in Des Moines. The Student
Body is to raise $75 towards the exq
penses of each delegate—The Trinity
Chronicle.

In Praise of “Buck” Flowers.

It’s not the fact that you win or lose
That counts at the end of the game,
But the way you fought and the price
you paid
That wins a way to fame.

It’s not the fact that we won the game
That brings us thoughtful hours,
But the price we paid for that victory,

For they injured halfback Flowers.

A mun broke loose with an open field;
He thought he was in luck.

A lonely man man stood ‘fore the goal,
But the lonely Jacket was “Buck.”

He braced himself to take the shock,
He swore he shouldn’t pass.

He drove straight at the flying man
And they’ fell in a tangled mass.

Our goal was safe, the runner stopped,
Our line was free from harm,
But the harm they did was worse than
this
For “Buck” had an injured arm.

We take our hats off to the man
Who played his best for Teck.
We're strong for you, “Buck” Flowers,
You're a worthy “Ramblin’ Reck!’
The Technique

Compulsory Chapel on Sunday.

The Philo LiLterary Society recently
debated the question of abolishing com-
pulsory Sundsy chapel. Although the
affirmative won, the negative put up
some strong arguments.—The Targam.

Engineering Branch of R. 0. T. C.

The University of Tennessee has se- --
cured an engineering corps of the R. O.
T. C. Students enrolling in this corps
will receive full instruction in the science
of constructive engineering —The Or-
ange and White.

1 2
* Mesh +

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tues- —;

|
day and Wednesday, Dec. Ist, 2d and 3d :

Orchestra, direction H. E. Lep-

isseceae

B. OVERTURE—Academy
pert.
F. PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
K_ Mortimer Gertrude
4 MAC RAE and CLEGG
il The Intruder and ‘“The Queen of the Wheel.”’
E WILBERT EMBS and HELEN ALTON
: Ina Dainty Diversion.
| I LIDA MAC MILLAN and BERT SNOW
in
“CONTRARY”
A Comedy Skit by Mack Esplan
T EDDIE FOYER
, The Man of a Thousand Poems.
| H_ HIRSCHOFF TROUPE
Of Gypsies.
presenting

“A NIGHT IN A GYPSY CAMP.”

Program Thursday, Friday and Saturday,

November 4th, 5th and 6th
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, direction H. E. Lep-

pert.
PATHE NEWS—-ROLIN COMEDY.
GUY WEADICK and FLORES LA DUE

“Baeee. | faceeseenrc tweet":

(The Guy that put the Punch in Cowpuncher. ld’
Champion Lady Fancy Roper.) ) World's

BERT HOWARD

The Unusual Comedian.

Harry-KEENE and WILLIAMS-Kate

Presenting a Comedy Skit

entitled

“A ROADSIDE FLIRTATION”
Note: Miss Williams’ Costumes exclusively by Woll-Worth.

O’ ROURKE and ADELPHI

Two Charming Misses in a Cycle of Melodies.

THREE BOBS
Jovial Jugglers

