6 The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

| ful harvest of immorality that is sure to
‘follow some of the -fashions of today?
; If not, To am sure you will join the

Proof conclusive that the doughboy crusaders that are lifting up their voices
thoroughly — enjoys straight-from-the against them, and both by word and
shoulder religion was the trend of a deed oppose them.—B. FE. P. P., Harris-
statement made today by Dr. Albert S. burg, Pa.
Hawkes, pastor oof a Worcester
(Mass.) Congregational church, just GOLF CLUB HAS AWAKENED.
returned from France. PLANS GREAT YEAR.

Dr. Hawkes’ assertion is based on __
the fact thatthe nine Y. M. C.A. huts Yes, there is a golf club at Davidson
in Camp Pontanazen. Brest, each with and everybody who is. interested in pol f-
a capacity ranging from 1,200 to 2,000, ing is urged to become a member. It
are crowded to the doors on Sundays is a club organized by the faculty and
during the religious services, students for the benefit of both. A

“T have seen these buildings so pack- membership fee of $5 is charged which
ed.” he said, “that men sat in the goes towards the upkeep of the course
rafters, windows—any place they could and as soon as anv help can be secured
secure standing or seating room;in fact, all nine holes of the course will be put

PROOF OF EFFECTIVE
RELIGIOUS WORK.

—

they have even crowded on the plat-
form.”

Dr. Hawkes was director of all musi-
cal programs connected with religious
services conducted by the Y. M. C. A.
at the big camp. When he began the
work of organization there were only
two pianists and a song leader, In two
months he had increased this staff to
thirty accomplished musicians, soloists,
and song leaders, this number increas-
ing with the demand.

In the huge auditorium, with a seat-
ing capacity alone of three thousand, he
declared that he has seen men who re-
mained after the mass sining to hear
the lecture, leave when the “movies”
began. ‘The singing was invariably
met with unbounded cathusiasm.

“Te was wonderful! An inspiration!
Imagine, if you can, more than three
thousand — full-toned, healthy, — male
voices ringing with the notes of a fa-
mous anthem. ‘They sang as they
fought—with every ounce of energy
their American souls possed.

“Popular songs started the program.
the words flashed .on the screen. The
singing service ended with hymns.

“The finest speakers obtainable in
France were next introduced. After
a short, snappy talk soldiers were given -
oppertunity to consult them. Hundreds
of men have availed themselves of this
opportunity—the last one — afforded
while in military service.”

He beleives that this type of welfare
work, about which little is known or
understood, is the most remarkablt and
thorough of any of che multiform ways ;
in which the “Y" served the A. FE. F.
The soldier loves to sing when proper
facilities and good Jeaders are afforded,
and he appreciates xcod speakers on re-
ligious tepics,

“The significance of our work was
twofold,” explained the pastor, “First,
it brought the Christian gospel before
the soldier in a practical, he-man_ fash-
ion. Secondly, it showed him at the
close of his military career that the
Y. M. C..A. stood for something else
besides canteens, recreational, and the
various other activities to which he was
accustomed at the front.”

PUBLIC MORALS AND
PUBLIC DRESS.

‘Writing recently in a national jour-

in first-class condition. If any of the
students who are interested in golfing
will see Dr. Arbuckle he will tell you
all about the club. A very extensive
program is being arranged with some
“eats” in view every now and then.
Even if you don't know how to play
golf spend a few dollars for clubs and
come out and learn how.

“GETTING” HIS AUDIENCE.

An evangelist who was conducting
nightly services announced that on the
fellowing evening he would speak on
the subject of “Liars.” He advised his
hearers to read in advance the seven-
teenth chapter of Mark.

“The next night he arose and said:
“Loam going to preach on ‘Liars’ to-
night and FT. would like to know haw
manv read the chapter I suggested.” A
hundred hands were upraised.

“New.” he said. “vou are the very
persons To want to talk tes—there isn't
any seventeenth chapter of Mark.”—
Boston ‘Transcript.

TRUE IT IS.

(From College Topics).

Isn't it peculiar that the average stu-
dent spends much money and time at
callege in order to obtain knowledge yet
rejoices over every cut of the professor
und never waits the required five min-
uies—

Knocks the institution, customs, and
professors while at the university and
when he goes away wants to fight any-
one who says that another place has bet-
ter sidewalks than en University ave-
nue.

Talks about what a shame it is. that
the lawn is ragged-looking while he cuts
across a corner of it,

The pecple in) many parts of the
United States are virtually in league
with the profiteers, according to Wil-
liam Mather Lewis, director of the
savings division of the treasury depart-
ment, who has just returned to Wash-
ington after visiting the various federal
reserve districts.

“A veritable orgy of extravagant
buying is going on,” he said. “The re-
action from the careful use of moneys
during war time is widespread and dis-
turbing. Retailers are securing goods

nal, a mother said,“"lhere is never go- from jobbers without arguing about
ing to be a winning fight against vice prices, if thev can only be assured of
in the United States of America until immediate delivery. They know their
women are face the fact that present custamers will scramble for the goods,
styles of dress, or tq speak more ac-' regardless of cost. Thus, with an ab-
curately, ‘undress,’ decreed largely by normal demand and a_ limited output,
men designers and manufacturers, are nothing else can be expected than high
absolutely inimicat to purity of thought prices. It is a natural, though deplor-

and action, It should not surprise us.
to find lax morals among our young
boys and girls, when mature women go}
to the extremes that yeorgette and sim- |
ilar fabrics have carried them.” '

The University of Illinois has pub-
lished a circular, entitled, “Fashion:
Its Use and Abuse.” Under the head .
“Decency” it says: “Decency is funda-
mental in dress. Waists so thin that aj
woman must shave in order to wear
them are not decent. Evening dress de-
scribed in our fashion magazines as not ;
having much above the waist and very |
little below are not rare. Why should
a woman desire to show her dress
shields and underwear to the public?” !
This circular says much more that is
plain truth. Why should skirts be
worn so tight and so devoid of under-
skirts that she reveals her figure in terri-
ble distinctness? Why should garments
be so thin as to reveal the bare body be-
neath or as to bring limbs distinctly in-
to outline when the wearer steps be-

able, that profiteers
abound.

“The people must return to the pol-
icy of careful buying and regular sav-
ine if they wish to help the situation.
The Treasury Department in order to
combat this artificial situation, is inten-
sifying and speeding up its thrift cam-
paign. Statements on the principles of
finance and the laws of investment and
budgetry are being brought to workers
in factories; to farmers; to business and
professional men, and members of wo-
men’s organizations by means af printed
publicity and the spoken word. A nation--
wide attack upon swindlers who are per-
suading people to dispose of their Lib- |
erty Bonds and War Savings Stamps is:
also, being inaugurated. :

“Through New England, savings and :
thrift organizations already are exerting
their combined efforts to combat in-
creased cost of the necessities of life.
Saving directors and hundreds of offi-
cers of savings societies are taking the

consequence

tween a man and the shining sun?
Christian mothers are you willing to
be in any degree responsible for the aw-

lead in disseminating information as to
| fair prices.
“In their communities they are aiding

PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL "

(CHARLOTTE'S SHOW PLACE)
THE BEST OF OPERATING ROOMS

70 Private Rooms, With and Without Baths: Seclusive Obstetrical
Department; Men's, Women’s and Children’s Wards; Well-
Equipped X-Ray, Bacteriological Laboratories and Hydrotherapy

A TWELVE
ACRE GROVE

the determination and publication af
fair prices and in curbing unjust profits.
They are following the plan of cam-
paign recently outlined by Governor
W. P. C. Harding’ of the Federal -Re-
serve Board, to promote regular and ef-
ficient work to increase production and
insure reasonable economics to devote
that production to necessities rather ex-
travagances “or luxuries.

“Steps are heing taken to insure sim-
ilar efforts throughout the other Federal
Reserve District.”

Do you know what I admire in the
world? It is the powerlessness of ma-
terial force. Sooner or later the sword
is conquered by the idea.—Napoleon

Bonaparte.
i)

Keep your fears. to yourself, but
share your courage with others.—R. L.
Stevenson.

C. F. Allen, ex-"19. was a visitor in
Davidson last week. He will soon re-
sume his studies at the Columbia ‘The-
ological Seminary.

prown’s Safe

THE
SENSIBLE
PLACE
TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at

Brown's Safe

AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR
AMERICAN PEOPLE

GENTLEMEN

When Need of Ton-
sorial Work, give

in

us a trial

Norton Barber Shop

Next to Postoffice

A Nice Line of Pen-
nants, College Jew-
elry, Watches and

Alarm Clocks

W. S. HENDERSON,
The Jeweler

Announcement...

E are pleased

to annoynce

that, in addition to our al-

ready modern facilities, we have

secured the services of a Commer-

cial Artist in the person of Mr. J.

B. Mallard, and are prepared to fur-

nish promptly original sketches

and designs for all classes of com-

mercial work, such as trade marks,

monograms, book covers ‘signa-

tures, etc. Designs in one or more

colors.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention

guaranteed.

‘PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.

PHONE 643

|
