4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Clessof 15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

On to Charlotte

EFEATED by Washington & Lee, Georgia Tech, we now face perhaps
the most interesting game of the state. On Saturday, November 8, Da-
vadsion will meet State College on Wearn Field, Charlotte. The David-

son College band, battalion and student body will be there 100 per cent. Our
spirit is the fighting spirit—it has been that all along. The teams that have won

|
’

from us have realized after the game, that they played a man’s sized game, and ;

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

had fought for every inch they won.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: By comparative scores, the above named colleges have won. Outweighed
ie Conte der copy: $126 the Collegiate eee many pounds to the man, our warriors have played gamely. The student body
"BH ABKBW.o.o. cece cc ccccesccnccdiccceccuecceeccesceneseaceneseneceas Eéltor-in-Chiet is proud of you. We are behind you one thousand per cent. The season is ‘not
J. BE. _CASBELL, «0. .0...seeceescnseccrssersscecntaessenescnn neces encase Managing Editor over, in fact the climax has not been reached. Are we down hearted? No.
J. RB. BOULWARE, Jr... cc cccccccceeeccccccneesessecscnsececcssevescteee Assignment Editor Fellow ith all th husi d vi ity. let’ to Charlot nd
L, B, BCHENCK............0006 Baltors ellows, with a e pep, enthusiasm and vivaci y, $ go to” arlotte and
HCE oc cccccccccecseeseenee eee IEEE Sporting . take the game Saturday; then the 15'h on to Winston and victory from the

$ & Mecasniia. 0 seteeesesereess Alusanll Balter University. Are we going to win? I'll say we are. Cc. J. M.

oo oe eer |

L ¢. CALHOUN... Batter ‘such a spirit would be in evidence at Da-
ft NOTON Srl Inn Literary Edltor OPEN FORUM | vidson. I hope that such men will never
Bh. MoILWAINE. on Official Photographer lmake a Davidson team, if they continue

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please

REPORTERS’ CLUB

MAHOOD

BN. BOOKER Ww. P. oN AP G D. iL. feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more
ae ON paaeetade bl ‘ ? : RHETT DNEIRT discussion, pro or con, by the students
c n CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES on college problems from now on.)
J. M. GILMER T. F. MARTIN Ww. iW. MOORE _
RICE J. W. PHILLIPS J. HARD: .
4G Bt BE. H. TUFTS J. Cc. WOOL The Importance of a Class Ring
—_—

Additional reporters: E. A. King, W-&. Gamble, ). P. Booth, W. C. Smith, 1 J, Brady, G. W

, H. H. Morris.
Pause, HH Moe idson, Cc. F.

College men may be picked from any
P.Cathoua, He | awd by watching their actions and
Business Manager manners; most college men, especially
Assistant Manager those of Davidson, are polite and gentle-
Cirowlation Manager manly in company either with ladies or
Assistant Managers Gentlemen. ‘hey wear an educated ap-
pearance and are pointed out by all men
as college graduates. Davidson men are
especially known by these characteristics.
Every college man should wear the
insignia of his college, so that men will
know where he spent the best four years
of his life seeking a liberal knowledge of
learning. This insignia should be either
on a ring or a pin. Davidson men have
‘no ring. Each class should have a stand-
ard ring. ‘This precedent has not been
set in the past. Why not let the pres-
ent Senior class adopt a ring that will be
a credit to the college and one that every-
body will take pleasure in wearing?
Why should we have a college ring?
Most colleges do have a class ring. The
ring helps to advertise the college. It
would help to draw men closer to their
alma mater after they left college. Every
time a fellow looked at his ring he
would think aBout old D, C. There is
not a doubt but that Davidson needs a
standard ring. Why not give the pres-
ent Senior class the privilege of making
a good selection of such a ring to be used
in the succeeding years by all D. C.
men? .

» Ce . A. P. Ormond, A. C. Ormond. J. C. Bailey,
Raseell, R. F, Dav ere jidmac, A. PF. Fricker, W. H. Hacrel.

pesoeee
ee eee eeeeceseceseorenes

reer rere es

A, M MITCHELL

| EDITORIAL |

“On to Charlotte” the 8th.

Keep saving and be in Winston on the 15th.

There was one hundred per cent down to see the team off last Friday night.
Let’s be there and go with them Saturday.

Would*it not have been appropriate for the band to have played ““March-
ing Thru Georgia” at the basketball game Friday night.

Things That Should Make Every Davidson Man Feel Proud

”

“The visitors fought clearly and gamely, going down in defeat without a
stain and upholding the best traditions of the institution whose reputation for
sportsmanship is unexcelled in the South.”—Atlanta Journal.

“The plucky preachers were outweighed and outplayed but they fought
furiously all the way—I have yet to see a Davidson team that didn’t.”—Sunday

American.

sp ees Long before 1 ever entered Davidson
“That desperate rally in the fourth quarter was the best exhibition of sports-' 1 had heard of the Davidson spirit. 1
manship I have ever seen.”"—Dr. B. R. Lacy, ‘06. did not grasp the full meaning of this
— until I became a student. During my
undergraduate days and since | have left
college 1 have learned to understand
that the spirit at Davidson is envied by

_ {students and alumni of other colleges

“I am gratified to see that the present generation is upholding the prehistoric {and universities. They will confe

traditions of the college."—D. M. Mclver, '88. you that they are not as loyal to their
college as Davidson men are; they will
tell you that somehow or other their
alumni and students will not co-operate
as Davidson men do; and 1 have heard
i ior | many times this remark from alumni o
to par with Junior other schools: “My goodness, if we
no doubt. [just had the pep and fight that Davidson
teams have we would be world ‘beaters.”
Davidson teams in the past have always
possessed this fighting spirit. I have
seen it in evidence many times on the
football field when they have lined up
against a team representing a school of
a thousand students, outweighed ten or
fifteen pounds to the man, and come out
of the game victorious, much to the sur-
prise of all outsiders, but not to the sur-
prise of all Davidson men who knew
that when a Davidson team takes the
field they are accompanied by the Da-
vidson spirit.

It hurts me to say that for the first
time since I can remember this spirit is
not universally in evidence. I wouldn't
believe things that I have heard lately

Davidson men are found everywhere. They have the same spirit, the spirit
that wins games.—Chas, Taylor, ‘09.

It’s Up to You

ENIORS, here-to-fore Senior speaking has not been >
S speaking. We all admit that it has not.
Where does the trouble lie? With us of the Senior class,

In other things the class has led. She is above the ordinary class in many ways,
why shouldn’t we go down in the annals of Davidson's history as standing for
the best in everything—to be satisfied with nothing less. We can do it. .

One of the many ways by which we may accomplish the above end is to
make our speaking the best. First, choose a good subject; second, spend some
time in writing it, and above all learn it.

Fellow-members of '20, it’s up to us to give the present student body a
really good speaking.

Speak

T has been a long-established custom on the Davidson campus to greet every-

I one with a cheery “Hello.” The importance of this simple custom cannot

be overestimated. From it is derived much of that fine quality—the David-
son spirit.

Yet quite a number of instances have been noted that freshmen—yes, even
upperclassmen, pass along the campus without showing the slightest recognition if they hadn't come from several au-
of other Davidson men. thoritative sources and I had found upon

Freshmen, don’t you feel good when someone greets you with a cordial and | personal investigation they were so.
hearty “Hello?” Then the least you can do its to return this greeting. Do|know for a fact that there are men who
you find it difficult to say “Hello” to your fellow-students? If so, resolve today |are disgruntled and sour because they
to force yourself to speak to everyone. You will be surprised at the rapidity /have not made the football team, men
with which the mere words change into expressions of genuine feeling and in-|who didn’t deserve a place because they
terest. wouldn’t work for it. Because they

You of the upper classes, have you done your share to promote this time- |didn’t work they didn’t make the team,
honored spirit of friendliness? When a freshman has murmured a half-audible|and because they didn't make the team
greeting, have you passed him by in silence, leaving him too discouraged to try |they quit coming out for practice. I
again? Remember this always, the freshmen follow the example of their upper-|say men, but I should say babies. They

asemen, be it for food or for evil. We are all friends on the campus, and |have wanted and expected something

to harbor such spirit as this; and 1 think
that the sooner these men leave David-
son the better off the college will be.
The biggest games of the season to
Davidson men are ‘yet to be played, the

State College and Carolina games. Let's '

get busy and win those games. Let every
man who ever kicked a football don his
football togs and go out and say: “I
am going out on the field to help. 1 may
not make the team, but | can help give
some other fellow practice who needs it

and who is on the team and who will '

help win these games for us." I believe
that if forty men who had never been on
the field before would do this that some

!star would be discovered or maybe sev-

eral stars who would help win these
games for us. I remember one man
who came out in the middle of the sea-
son at Davidson and who had never
played a football game before in his life.
Nobody thought that his appearance
would help any, but the call went out for
some new men and he answered the call.
He played in the last two games and
won the biggest game of the season by
catching a fumbled ball and side-step-
ing half the other team, raced some forty
yards for a touchdown. Was his com-
ing out worth while? Did he have the
Davidson spirit?
fellows to decide.
Yours for Davidson,
Alumnus, 1913.

Should the Band Receive Any
Credit?

%
“Every man should be rewarded ac-
cording to his labor.” How about our
band? Are they to be compensated for
their work, or is Davidson to take all
their work, time, trouble and_persever-
ance and merely say “Thank you?"
The old college now has a band to be
proud of. In a few weeks it has been
trained and drilled until it can put up a
creditable showing before anyone. The
writer heard the State College band at
the State College and Carolina game,
and is glad to say that our band would
compare very favorably with theirs.
td you ever stop to think just how
much a band means to a college in keep-
ing up the old pep? When was there
ever so much college spirit displayed here
as on Friday night when the team left?
The yells, the shouts and the band. Well,
it all was literally inspiring and the
cause of it all—the band. We have sent
teams off before, yes, to play Ga. Tech,

but we never had this kind of pep be- |
fore, unless we consider the A. and B..

game of basketball in the S. A. T. C.

Now why not give these men the
same credit toward graduation that the
other members of the R. O. T. C. get?
‘Why not remunerate them for their
toils? Surely they do as much work as
those drilling, and immeasurably more
for thé college. Take for example the
band leader. He gives at least ten hours
of work per week, besides his energy and
talent. Shall this perseverance and self-
sacrifice go unrewarded ?

The band’ makes its first official ap-
pearance—its debut—Saturday. Let's
all watch it, and stand behind it. “Long
Live the Band.”

Typo, '20.

A Warning

Someone with a poetical imagination
has said that “Music hath charms to
soothe the savage,” and no one doubts the
aesthetical value of music; but as the
wise old Solomon has said: “There is a
time for all things.”

We are grateful for the apparent pos-
sibilities of a real brass band this year—

should show a friendly spirit at all times. Get into the atmosphere of the Da-| without working for it, a Socialistic]a new feature in college life at David-

vidson spirit. Resolve today to greet every man you meet on the campus. principle. Mr. Editor, I never thought

son—but we do not need solos from its

I leave this for you

—
le=sil

.Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor's Note: ‘The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading
college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish news that will interest all who
‘are acquainted with college life. The
editor reserves the right, however, to
criticise, misquote or burn any and all
exchanges).

RUTGERS COLLEGE.

, The swimming pool has been opened
up and indications are that Rutgers will
chave the strongest team in the coming
tank contests. Plans are under way to
turn out a water-polo team which will
-be a new feature—The Targum.

EMORY AND HENRY.

Dr. John C. Orr is the new college
| chaplain. He is a native of Lee county,
| Virginia, and is a product of Vanderbilt

University. Dr. Orr is te teach Bible
at“both Emory and Henry and Martha
Washington.—The Weekly Bulletin.

‘UNIVERSITY OF S. CAROLINA.

Intelligence tests similar to those
given by the United States government
in examining men for the army are now
being given to the freshmen at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. This is given
to properly classify the students.—The
Gamecock.

FURMAN UNIVERSITY.

The students at Furman are debating
the question of having their mail deliy-
ered to their rooms. For a small sum
‘letter containers could be put upon every
,door in the dormitories, and then some
college student could be secured to as-
;sort and deliver the entire amount of
imail—The Furman Hornet.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.

After two days’ grace granted the
(Freshmen to learn their songs, they feel
‘confident of surviving the song test. The
vigilance committee will award cither
‘a green card, certifying that the exam
_has been passed, or the customary dose of
iodine will be put on their hands in case
‘of failure—Columbia Spectator.

UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSLE.

The university string orchestra ‘s to
;be organized soon and will only include
.ten members, ‘his is to be united with
jthe glee club in giving concerts.—
Orange and White.

, UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI.

The “Co-Eds” are to be congratulate.!
on being able to form a literary society
this year—The Mississippian.

WOMAN'S COLLEGE OF ALA.
A holiday announcement at W. C. A.
creates more excitement in the dining

room_ndw than ice cream, acording to
Wo-Co-Ala. News.

WINTHROP COLLEGE.

Recently the students challenged the
faculty for a game of hockey. However,
the student team met its match and the
score still stands 2 to 2—Winthrop
Weekly News.

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (TEXAS)

The students at Baylor have to pay
poll tax in order to be able to represent
the university in any athletic event, ac-
cording to the constitution of the Stu-
dent Self-Government Associstion.—
The Lariat,

aspiring members in th dormitories be-
tween the hours of 8 and 12 p.m. “A
hint to the wise is sufficient.” Y.
