REMAIN FOR FINALS

PUSH THE VICTORY LOAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

Davidson Defeats
Washington and Lee

Heated Debate Over Government
Ownership of R. Rs.

Dr. Arbuckle was the presiding officer
cf the debate between Washington and

Lee and Davidson. He paid a tribute to
the opposing team. We have met them
cn the football gridiron, baseball dia-
mond and basketball court but this is
the first time we have met them in 4
debate.

The, affirmative was upheld by two
gentlemen from Washington and Lee,
‘Phe first speaker, W. ‘TP. Rushton, ar-
gued that the very nature of the. rail-
roads demanded government ownership.
The commerce of our nation is in the
control of the railroads, and it is too
important for private ownership to con-
trol. “Phe very nation’s life depends on
the railroads, Vhe railroads were oper-
ated only where profit was forthcoming
and for that reason a large part of the
country is undeveloped -for the want of
rzilroads. “This would not be the case
under government ownership. Fifty per
cent of the railroads of the world, the
U.S. exclusive, are owned and con-
trolled by governments. ‘The rebate
system which is very unjust would be
eliminated under governnient owner-
ship. “The fault of this system is that it
tends to increase monupolies and to put
emall firms out of business.

The second gentleman of the affrm-
ative, Mr. G. P. Wilson, argued that
government ownership Would be advan-
tageous, first, from an economic stand-
point. The railroads would be unified,
thus destroying competition, consolidat-
ing terininals in large cities, making all
railroad equipment standard and correct-
ing the pass systen. It would prevent
strikes. Business would be stabilized.
because there would be no congestion of
trafic. Secondly, it would be advan-
tageous from a political standpoint. It
would eliminate the graph system and its
evils. The political influence of the
railréad corporations would be destroyed.

The negative was upheld by E. G.
Lily and W. M. Currie, representatives
of Davidson. Liston was alternate.
Lilly, the first speaker of the negative,
brought out three points: first, the gov-
ernment is not a good business organi-
zation. It is not the duty of the gov-
ernment to run the railroads but it has
for its duty the protection of life, liberty
and property. Secondly, government
ownership is politically dangerous. The
2,000,000 employes of the railroads hold
the balance of power. Third, govern-
ment ownership is wrong in principle.
It de:troys initiative and enterprise.

W. M. Currie, in continuing the ar-
gument, brought out forcibly, first, that
it has proved a failure in other countries.
France has a government very’much like
the United States. One-fifth of French
railroads are operated by the govern-
ment and this part lost money and the
other part made money. Belgium, Italy
and Germany were cited. Secondly, fair
rezulation and fair legislation will cor-
rect this end. When the government
tcok over the railroads, McAdoo ran it

(Continued on Page 8)

Our “Y” Secretary

Mr. “Bob” Miles

A Brief Sketch of His College and|Take Thirteen

Recent Activities.

—_r" =

oo

It was Richmond College's loss and
Davidson's gain when Robert W. Miles
entered in the fall of 1908 as sopho-
more. He was forward on the basket-
ball team during his three years and
captain in his senior year. He was also
president and marshal of the Mumenean
Literary Society while a senidy, Among
his other distinctions were the vice-
presidency of the Athletic Association,
and anembership on the first Student
Council. He assisted in the composi-
tion of the pre-ent constitution of the
student body.

On January 24, 1911, it was his mis-
fortune to have his leg broken in a
class football game. | This both pre-
vented him from graduating, and put
him in the hospital for a Jong time.

He taught High School for two years
after his recovery, and in 1914 entered
Union Theological Seminary. While
there he displayed a remarkable capacity
for work. He was superintendent of
a Sunday School, and of the Richmond
City Playgrounds, leader of a troop of
Boy Scouts, also, meanwhile carrying on
his studies at the Seminary and. as later
developments Icad us to believe, the
courtship of Miss Dorothy Moomaw, of
Roanoke, Va.

He went into Army Y. M. C. A. in
August, 1917, remaining at Camp Jack-
son until December. His marriage took
place on December 6th of that same
eventful year. He sailed for France De-
cember 29, where he spent six months
of service with the “doughboys.” He
was invalided home July 22, 1918.

He was convalescent until November.
After spending that month in Missis-
sippi in the interests of the War Work
Campaign, he came to Davidson. As
the “Y" secretary he has made campus
life much more interesting for the past
six months than it could possibly have
been without him. His plans for the
future will increase the attraction of a
course at Davidson in no small measure,
and the student body may well congrat-

(Continued on Page 8)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. MAY 7, 1919.

Trinity Wins

From Wildcats

Inning Game 2 to 1.
Clarke Twirls Fine Ball.

‘Trinity tcok advantage of Davidson's
unlucky number, the thirteenth inning.
to break the final clinch in the game at
Durham last Tuesday. “Che whole game
was “a great exhibition of the grand old
gatme as played by college boys.” Cavi-
nezs, of “Trinity, had a little the better
argument in the hard pitching duel.
striking out t3 batters in the 13 innings
and permitting cnly three clean hits.
Clarke, cpposine hin, pitched a hard
game. but was not at his best.

‘Trinity scored first in’ the second
when Carson singled snd stole second,
crossing the plate when Wannamaker
hit a long ene to left field. She scored
her sccond in the thirteenth when Wan
namaker singled on an easy prounder to
third baseman, who passed it up asa
fowl. “Phen Edens came along with hits
hefty smash between center and right
field and the game was ave-,

Davidson scored in the sixth.  Adiller
started the ball rolling with a. single.
Cassell hit to pitcher, wha threw wild
to second, Milier in the meantime pain
ing third. A moment later when Cavi-
ness threw one over the catcher le
ereseed the plate with the run that tic.
the game until the ill-omened thirteenth.

Bach team had ene or two chances to
win the game but failed to put them
ever, Davidson had a good chance in
the fifth, McArn. with one down,
walked. Sample hit to short, who threw
McArn out at.secand, Sample running
safe at first. Clarke came along with a
double, Sample being held at third, but
Spann’s straight to short closed the deal,
Again, Ratchford started the ninth and
was safe on first but hesitating too long
on a catcher's fumble, was thrown out
at second.

Vhe third inning showed an opening
for Trinity. Hathaway singled and was
sacrificed around to third but failed to
reach home. ‘Their next prospect came
in the sixth. Cole singled and went to
second on a fumble, which the fielder
dropped. “Fhen the third baseman
stopped a drive and doubled Cole off
cecond. Again, in the eighth, Caviness
made second on a fielder's error, South-
ard, running fer Cavine:s, was. sacri-
ficed, to third, but was nailed at the
plate trying to score on a flyout to left.

Further details may be obtained from
the box score:

Davidson. ABRH POAE
Spann, cf. .......€ 0 O 1 ft O
Miller, lf. .......6 810 5 0 1
Cassell, 3b. ...... 5 0 0 3 3 °0
Ratchford, 2b. ....:5 9 1 3 4 0
Johnson,c........ 5 0 © 7 1 0
Richards, rf. ..... 5 0 0 3 01
McArn, 1b. ...... 3 0 O1f 0 O
Samples. ....... 5 O 1 2 3 2
Clarke, p. ....... 5 0 1060

Totals ........45 1 3 3618 4
Trinity ABRH POAE
McArthur, cf..... 4 0 0 3 0 0
Hathaway, If. .... 5 0 1 4 0 0
Carver, 2b. ...... Oot 420

4
(Continued on page §)

|R. 0. T. C. Impressed

No. 27

Inspector Favorably

Davidson Battalion Rated High. News
About Summer Camps.

All Davidsonians will be gratified to
tearn that Colonel Conway, the district
inspector, has both officially and person-
ally notified Colonel Mueller that) he
was very much pleased with the showing
made by. the cadets of the Davidson Bat-
talion, Although Colonel Mueller him-
self was unable to be present at the in-
spection, Cadet Major Hall had such a
thorough program made out and this
was so well executed by the cadets that
the inspector was able to complete his
duties here within two hours instead of
remainiag a whole day as he had planned
to da, ,
Much to the delight of the students,
rain put a stop to drill for three days
after the visit of Colonel Conway. Dur-
ing that time, however, some very inter-
esting | announcements were — made.
Among these came definite information
about the summer trainings camp. For
this district, Camp. Lee, Virginia, is to
be the sphere of action for such mem-
bers of the RLO.T. C. as wish to take
the additional training. “The minimum
age required for attendance is 16 years.

Railroad fare at.the rate of 342 cents
‘crile will be furnished for the trip from
Davidson to Camp Lee and for the re-
trrn to the home of the student, pro-
vided that this point ts not at a greater
‘istance from the camp than Davidson
s. The camp proper will begin on the
ait of June and continue through the
ceend cay of August. There will be
no commutation for the work done dur-
ing this time, but students will be given
the. same credit. for it as for a year’s
training in an RO. T. C. unit. Hf
Congress pases a much hoped for bill
thee men will receive additional pay
fer their work next year.

The cadets will be interested to know
that Colonel Mueller has written to the
Committee cn Education and Special
‘Training to recommend that all) men
bers of the R. O. T. C. be paid a defi-
nite sum every month.. He believes that
cuch a policy will bring about a larger
attendance at the colleges of our coun-
try and at the same time will increase
interest in the drilling. He suggests
that all cadets taking the basic or first
two vears’ work shall receive $10 a
month. For these taking the advanced
courses, that is a third or fourth year of
R. O. ‘T. C. work, he would have the
following salaries paid: Majors and
captains, $20; lieutenants, $18; first ser-
peants, $16; sergeants, $15; corporals,
fig: privates, $12.

There has been an unaccountable de-
lay in the arrival of the long expected
rifles. These have been ordered from
the Augusta Arsenal and all possible
steps are being taken to expedite their
shipment. ‘The “pup” tents have _been
received and were issued during the lat-
ter part of last week.

The big yell at one of the recent hall
vames may be accounted for by the
‘tatement made by Jimmie McQueen:
“AIL freshmen who con't yell now will
yell later.”

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DEFEAT MERCER and W.G L.
