4

The DA VIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by tho Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Offico of Davidson as Mail Matter of tho Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Fivo Conts per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

PPOeTTTT STITT Tere) Editor-in-Chiot
cote cccvcncccees Managing Editor
Srvrreerer iri Assignment Editor

bec ccoccecccsoncerececs Alumni Editor
soe ekxchange Editor
ooo POTUM
o- Campus Editor
° Cc. A. Editor

eoges Social Editor
eee cccceceres ee cesesccceccccsccasssoscoerccessibtorary Editor
ene e cancer enccrereseeeseeceneoevecaces Official Photographer

| REPORTERS’ CLUB
B.iN. BOOKER ° W. P. CUMMING D, L. MAHOOD

PPS PP SROSpHem

R. T. L. LISTON J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHELL
R R. CRAIG R. BITZER B. B. BREITENHIRT
Cc. ‘BE, CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES
J. M0. GILMER T. F. MARTIN WwW. W. MOORE
J. P. PRICD J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHARDS

Cc. SUADIDRS E. H, TUFTS J. c WOOL

Additional reporters for this issue are: J. T. Wilkes, Jr.; A. C. Ormond, Jr.; J. W. Mauze,

[T. W. Ogden, A. P. Ormond, C. B. Sanders, A. D. King.

++. Business Manager
oreeee Assistant Manager
... Circulation Manager

Peer Prererr errr r reeset Assistant Manogors

W. A. Gamble, Jr.;

toeee

This being the last issue of. The Davidsonian before the holidays,
we hope to be the first to wish you a Merry Christmas and Happy
New Year. °

Whenever a good, hard rain is needed all that is necessary is to plan

a reception. |

A vote of thanks from the Senior class goes out to, the man who!
left the Bible stand on the chapel rostrum.

Dear Santa Claus: I have been a good little boy, please leave in:
my stocking my mid-term report. Yours hopefully, ‘
Upperclassmen:

SENIOR SPEAKING.

\ \ ] HEN the first speaker began to deliver his Senior speech Fri-
\/ day afternoon there were 22 persons in the audience. When the
last ‘speaker finished his, Saturday afternoon, there were 44. Be-
tween these two times the attendance ranged anywhere. from 20 up to
100 or perhaps more, but never enough to fill the last 12 rows in the
hall. And yet complaints have been heard that the speeches were not
‘up to standard and did not exhibit sufficient preparation.

The writing of a speech worthy of the occasion requires a great|
deal of thought and hard work. To the unaccustomed speaker it isi
the cause of much worry and anxiety. It detracts from the effective-|

‘ ness of his regular work and serves to demoralize him for wecks in ad-|
vance. All this could be overlooked if the good results would amply
justify it. |

Either the atidience is small because the speeches are uninterest-,
ing or the speeches are poor because the attendance is never large.
Doubtless the two work interchangably. Anyhow the result is the!
same, there is no incentive for the Seniors to take interest and conse-,
quently the outsiders feel the same way. At, the first two speakings
there was not even any musical program to break the monotony, noth-
ing but 12 consecutive speeches on various subjects, which as a whole
could hardly hold the attention and interest of the average listener.

We are not arguing in favor of abolishing Senior speaking entire-
ly, but the quality of the oratory and the outside interest manifested
can hardly justify the continuation of the custom as it now stands.
Either the program should be more attractive, or the speakers should
be required to do better, or the whole thing should be done away with.
Very few men will of their own accord put their best into a speech to
be delivered to a handful of people on the back row, and still fewer
people will, aside from a sense of duty, listen to 12 speeches without
any interruption. Some change is necessary and should be made before
the next oratorical exercises. .

\ THE APPROACHING CRISIS.

“HE most trying time of our whole collegiate year is now fast ap-
proaching. For some it will decide whether the term’s work will
be a success or. failure, whether the report sent out will be favor-

- able or will be a disappointment to the parents and folks at home. A
good term’s work can be seriously marred by the neglect of a few days,
or the failures of the past can bepartially.made up by a spurt of hard
work. It is for the good of every man that he should do his best during
this period. \

Very often when there is a day or two on which a man has no
exam the tendency is to loaf and while away the time. For a short di-
version this may be all right, but in seeking your recreation be care-
ful that it does not conflict with the vrork of others. Congregating in a
man’s room where he is trying to study is demoralizing and may be the
source of future trouble for him. The work of a whole term may have
been well covered and pretty well fixed in a man’s head but unless he
-collects the main ideas and learns the essentials accurately it will avail
him little in the crucial test.

In these important! days it would be a great thing if every one
could settle down, and put in some good, earnest work, at the same
time showing consideration for the other man who is also trying to do

|. is best. ,

‘surely

| OPEN FORUM |

(Editor's Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please
feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more
ediscussion, pro or con, by the students
‘on college problems from now on.)

. OUR CAMPUS.

4 .
Davidson men everywhere are
proud of their institution and the
things connected with it.
Editor C. man is deeply appreciative of -his
It is perhaps one of the
most beautiful in the South, and
so considering the small
amount of money expended on it.

There‘are very fey men on the
campus.at present who would wil-
fully, in the sight of Davidson’s
friends, do anything that would in-
jure the natural beauty of the
grounds in any way. Yet each dor-
mitory is doing things which do not
by any means help the general’ ap-
pearance of things.
able among them are the paths lead-
ing from Chambers to Elliott’s
store, Rumple to t:
the ground between Georgia and

campus.

Chambers.

There are possibly two causes for
this. The first is carelessness on our
part, and in the second place there

EDITORIAL is need of a regular walk. Thus the

. injury can be remedied.
purely carelessness, we might be
more thoughtful for the campus at
the time of the year is at its worst.
On the other hand we all realize
}that a straight line is the shortest
one between two points.

question is considered in this light,
an extra walk would solve the prob-

lem.

If you dre for Davidson and have
an idea on this question, give ex-
pression to it.

Fresh—“Gee,
with the ‘hen folks’ in the writing

line.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Backward turn backward, oh Time in
your flighe -

And show us a maiden dressed proper
and right.

We are so weary of the switch and the

; rat, .

‘Huge | puffs and Marcells and such
things as that,

Wads of jer hair in a horrible pile

Stacked on the head to
a mile.

Something is wrong with the girlies we
ear,

Oh, show us the maids as they used to
appear:

Give us the girls that we once knew of

Read the College Exchanges in the Library
ON WOMEN IN GENERAL.

the height of

Every D.
(The following bits of philosophy
are adopted from our Exchanges, )

BACKWARD TURN BACK-
WARD.

There are two kinds of dangerous

ore
women—blondes and brunettes. y

Whose curls did not come from a hair-

dressing store;
Maidens who dressed with a sensible
view,
Just as your mothers intended them to,
Give me a girl with a will of her own
Who does nor fall for each fad that
is known;
Feminine styles getting fiercer cach

1st Senior—“How is an elephant
‘ike a woman?”
2nd Senior—"“I don't know, I’m
sure.” .
1st Senior—"“They’re good to look
at but not to own.”

TACT.

In pompous tones he broached his love
Called her his “pet’? and “turtle dove.”
The maiden gasped, too hot to speak,
Then, scernfully, “I like your cheek!”
But I, who scarce knew how to talk,
Tust kissed her on the campus walk.
She blushed a bit, then, very meek,
She whispered, “My, I like your
cheek.”

Most notice-

year,
Oh, show us the girls as they used to
appear.

ee
Ce ees

Phi hall and

“Cold dear?”
““Bout to freeze.”
“Want my coat, dear?”
“Just the sleeves.”
—Highland Echo

If it is

Flattery is not the only thing that} Fair Visitor—‘“I have fallen in love
turns a woman's head. Peroxide is:

; so many times since I have been up
sometimes the cause.

here, that now I don’t know when I'm
in love.”

She—‘Do you like peaches?”
He—“Yes, let's get married.”

If the She—“If you insist upon knowing,

. . . F: are two reasons why I can’t
Cupid may pierce the heart with E you.”

rows, but it takes a girl to draw the} Jim—“And they are?”
deau, She—“Yourself and another fellow.”

Interested. /THESE GIRLS DEW BE FAST.

She has the cutest little way
Of telling you

The stupidest things

But

Who minds that?

The old boy who used to p'ead with
the girl’s father for hours at a time
row has a daughter who says: “Give it

I'm getting popular

ee Y

Soph—"Anybody can this near | gas. George; the old man is gaining on
Christmas.” us.” (Continued on page 10)
a LL a NTT,

lh

|

ft t
WE eae
rts

_ - wl th’
= alc LM nl
a ths

ON’T take a fellow’s pipe. ‘Take some other possession.

Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than ‘al
true if it’s a W DC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi-
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer 7

' and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack.

Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your
way to pipe-happiness.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK yo

WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS

‘ty HH

Hi r

Sl

