ax

Watts 24

Georgia 15

i, JAViJSONIAN =

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

VAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 6, 1919.

No. 10

Davidson College Day Will be Cel-
* ebrated in December

The anniversary of the signing of the
armistice, November 11, will not be
celebrated by a holiday at Davidson.
lt was commonly supposed that David-
son College Day would be held on this
date and that no classes would meet.
Davidson College Day, however, has
becn postponed until some time around
the first of December, when a holiday
will then be given, combining the Armis-
tice Day and Davidson College Day.
Arrangements are naw being made for
a good program. :

Wild Kittens Romp Bingham
for Victory.

Dick, Dantzler and Carter Starred—
Muddy Field Allowed Only
Two Touchdowns

Meow! Meow! Who said the Wild
Kittens couldn't fight? With the blood
of Bingham still on their claws, the
young cats returned home and report-
ed to their elders a 13 to o victory.

Invading foreign territory for the
first time, the Davidson Reserves gave
a good account of themselves by over-
coming the fast Bingham eleven on
Oates field, in Asheville. ‘The games
was hard fought from kick-off to last
down, though a muddy field caused a
good many costly fumbles for both sides,
Only twice did Bingham have the ball
in Davidson territory, and not once was
her gcal seriously threatened.

Qantzicr, for Davidson, pur the pig-
skin in action, kicking to Woodward,
who returned to yards. By line plunges
the ball was carried to the middle of the
tield, where it went ever on downs, Da
vidson, by a series of off-tackle plays,
carried the ball to Bingham’s 10-yard
line, but lost it there on a fumble. Be-
ing held for downs, Bingham attempted
a punt but tumbled the ball, which roll-
ed behind the goal line. Carter, of Da-
vidson, covered it for a touchdown.
Dantzler kicked goal. During the re-
mainder of the half the ball see-sawed
up and down the tield, the Wild Kit-
tens several times carrying the ball with-
in striking distance of their opponents’
geal, only to lose it on downs.

At the end of the first half ic began
to rain, pouring steadily throughout the
remainder of the game. Phillips demon-
strated his ability to keep going in spite
of the mud and once made a hook slide
of 15 yards.

Davidson scored again in the third
quarter by end runs and line plunges,
their opponents being unable to hold
them. Dantzler carried the ball, but
failed to kick goal. The muddy field
made forward passing impossible during
the last half,

Dick and Dantzler were the stellar
players in Davidson's backfield. Dick,
besides being a consistent ground gainer,
ran the team in great style. This plucky
little player broke his collar-bone during
the third quarter, but uttering no com- |
plaint, he played right on to the end of
the game. No one even suspected his
injury before the final whistle. Dantzler
never failed when called upon to gain
through the line. Carter played a good
game at tackle. He tore through the
line repeatedly and broke up the plays of
the Cadets,

(Continued on Page 8)

* #¢ «© © @¢ @ # #© #© @© # # &
bd FINAL STANDING OF *,
bd TEAMS. .
e *.
bd Won. Lost. *'
* Watts... ........ 5 o *!
© Georgia .......... 4 1 *,
© Rumple.......... 2 3 °,
* §. Wing Chambers... 2 3 *I
* N. Wing Chambers .. 2 3 *
* Louisiana .. .. .. ... 0 5 *
eeeees#s *# 8# @© @ © # @

Alumni Banquet Very En-
joyable Occasion

Atlanta Alumni Association Tends
Regular Banquet to Team

After eating and drinking diluted mud
all afternoon the Wildcat squad was
mighty glad to partake of sustenance a
little more palatable and nutritious.
The annual banquet given by the At-
lanta Alumni was held in the College
Grill at the Ansley “otel as soon after
the game as the pla™#-s could separate
themselves fron the Grant Field prop-
erty they carried away. If there was
any feeling on the part of the team that
the supporters of: Davidson were disap-
pointed with their showing it was im-
mediately dispelled. The occasion was
one for good fellowship, good time, and
good eats and the man who claims he
didn’t have a good time is cither con-
trary or a-professional grouch,

Responsibility for the affair can be
credited mainly to H. M. Askew, 1900,
who acted as business manager and high
financier. Mr. Caldwell and Mr. Perry
were also a great aid in) getting. the
alumni together. Suitable music furnish:
ed by an excellent orchestra added to
the pleasure of the occasion, As to the
menu, just ask somebody who is famil-
iar with restaurant parlance and who
can make people believe he has been to a
oanquct before, “Po the unsophisticated
c.tbe the firs: course closely resembled
cream tomato soup, but any — definite
statement to that effect is out of the
question, “The main item in. the next
round answered tu all. the requirements
of the best piece of beetsteak hes had ever
seen but on a printed score card would
probably lock something like ‘aura,
<oncarne,”” or words to that effect.

After the table was cleared of ail
edibles and some of the more. promis:
‘cuous had lighted cheir Saturday night
cigars, it was conclusively proven that
the precious art of linguistic excellence
which is so prevalent among the present
generation was handed down as one of
the perpetual traditions of the institu-
tion, Mr. W. G. Perry, 18905, was in-
troduced as toastmaster and presented
Dr. Ben R. Lacy as the speaker of the
evening. After declaring that the. stren-
uous rally in the fourth quarter was the
best exhibition of sportsmanship he had
ever seen, he argued that the bachelors
were supposed to do the speaking and
called on Mr. Scott Candler, Mr. Cand-
ler spoke of the team as a team of stu-
dents and gave this as their undying
spirit, ,

Coach Crayton then expressed — his
pleasure at knowing he had such loyal
support from the alumni and said he un-
derstood why the members of the team
always wanted to make the Aglanta trip.
Captain Spann regretted that the score
was so large but reaffirmed their de-
termination to win the next two games.
McMaster, Shepherd and Brady backed
him up in this statement. The last nam-
ed complained of all the old alumni
greeting him with, “Are you that little
Sam Brady that used to hang around the
college ?”

Dr. McGeachy had prepared very in-
teresting puns on every member of the
team. He explained that the reason the
Davidson team was Worth so much was
that it was the only one that had a Fairy
and a good Shepherd on it, and that the
line was a Spann too long. Mr. Cald-
wel was then called on and passed the
buck to Jimmie Winn, otherwise known
as Windy Jim. Mr. Charlie Taylor
said that he had been following and
backing the Davidson team for years and
that the scrap they put up Saturday was
as good as he had ever seen. Davidson
men are found everywhere and they all
have the same spirit, the spirit that wins
games.

(Continued on Page 8)

Thrilling Experience in
Russia Related by
“Y” Worker

Mr. A. M. Craig, Twenty Months as
“Y” Secretary in Russia, Ad-
dresses Y.-M. C. A.

Mr, A. M. Craig, of Winston-Salem,
who has returned to America after 20
months as a “Y" secretary in Russia,
spoke to the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday
night. He related his thrilling experi-
ences in Russia, and showed some of the
problems and opportunities which that
cduntry presented.

Mr. Craig went over to Russia with
the second group of “Y". secretaries, by
way of Siberia in the fall of 1917, arriv-
ing in Moscow in November.

At first the “Y” secretaries were look-
ed upon with suspicion, but when they
showed that they had no selfish motives
and were there to help Russia, they
were welcomed and shown every consid-
eration. “Phe Bolsheviki uprising started
fiye days after Mr. Crag reached Mos-
cow, It started in Kremlin, November
8.1917, on Friday, and by noon Sat-
urday it was raging fiercely around: the
“Y" headquarters, a miles and a halt
away. Kor a week no one in the house
could po out, and the rations of rice and
prunes became monotunous, to say the
least. Finally the Kerensky govern-
ment was overthrown, and the Bolshe-
viki taction held a vreat funeral in the
Red Square, ft was a ghastly spectacle
to see the dead bodies lowered into the
pigantié grave. ‘Phere was no service,
no priest, no religious ceremony with the
burial. | “The Bolshe: *1
takes no account of God. he covering
of the bodies was followed by a political
speech.

After a short stay in Archangel, at
which place Mir, Crag had been located,
he was sent South, Je was at this time
that the demobilization. or rather the

-demoratization of the Russian army was

taking place, “Phe Russian soldiers re-
tuscd te fight, and deseried their officers,
who were powerless to hald them, ‘These
bands of soldiers would board a train:
force the passengers out, and make the
engineer take them in any direction they
wished. “This became such # commen
occurrence that the following notice was
posted in the coaches: “Soldiers are re-
quested not to throw passengers out of
the train windows while it is in motion.”
The reason given was that the outside
world might think it strange.

People are apt to forget thar in the
beginning of the war Russia rose to her
task magnificently, that in spite of poor
leadership the soldiery fought bravely,
often brilliantly. Russia put out one of
the largest armies ever raised by any na-
tion, It is a country of tremendous pos-
sibilities. “he natural resources, as yet
barely touched, are boundless. ‘The peo-
ple are fettered by lack of education and
centuries of oppression. “They have abil-
ity, which if trained in the right direc-
tion, will be a wonderful power for
civilization. Guided by the baneful in-
fluences now working upon it, Russia
faces a future of despair. “The mass of
the Russian people regard America as an
ideal. If America lends a helping hand,
the majority of the people will respond.
Bolshevism holds only the power and
the monetary system. The greater part
of the population has not, as yet, been
ccnverted to its doctrines, America can
do much to help Russia to a sure and
safe foundation.

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA.

Georgia is honored by an invitation to
the Student Volunteer meeting to be held
in Des Moines, Iowa, December 31
through January 4. Eleven students anc

one professor will represent Georgia— eight. Tech fumbled, Gaiver recovered. ,*

The Red and Black.

poverninent’

Yellow Jackets Win

From Watersoaked

Wildcats $ on Sea of Mud, 33-0

Both Teams Crippled but Fight Hard—No-Injury Record—Spann, Johnson
and Douglas Stars—Rain Biggest Feature

Old jinx and Jupiter Pluv. are still
parking on the trail of the Wildcats.
On a field that more nearly resembled a
pond or lagoon than a football stadium,
the heavy ‘Tornado cleven registered 33
points while the Red and Black were
unable to-count, “The natatorium in
which the aquatic meet was held would
have been suitable for Wake Forest or
some other Baptist aggregation, but
worked to the disadvantage of the Pres-
byterians.

As usual, with such a heavy opponent,
Davidson was counting strongly on over-
head work, which was rendered impossi-
ble by the condition of the field and the
pigskin. Only three passes resulted fa-
vorably -for* the Wildcats, while Tech
completed only one for a considerable
gains Juse about time for the whistle
to blow starting the game. the clouds
opened up and fram then oan water was
one of the main features of the contest.

‘Tech opened with a rush, making twe
touchdowns in the first quarter, Straight
line plavs with occasional end runs were
responsible fur these scores, Ferst carry-
ing the ball across hoth times. “Vhe sec-
ond quarter went to Davidson.  Vhe
lackets were scarcely able ta make a
fest dawn during the period and were
torced to kiek time after time after be-
ing held for downs,

The third quarter started out) very
much as the second had, with Davidson
holding the wdvantage. Johnston was
antpunting his opponent and keeping the
ball in Vech's territory until a fumble
was taken advantage of by the Jackets
and they began anotlier drive for the
goal, “The fourth quarter was the most
interesting of the game. Although ‘lech
nade two touchdowns during the period,
Davidson put up her best offensive fight
and had her best chance of scoring, iy
making three successive first downs the
ball was brought bevand the 20-yard
line when the Vornado defense strength-
ened and held: for downs.

As all the players had been sufficiently
soustd in the mud to become. indistin-
iguishable and darkness was making mat-
ters worse, it was hard to tell who to
tackle. Searchlights were thrown on the
field but helped very little in finding the
ball, “Phe §s§-yard run by Searbore in
this quarter was easily the feature of the
game, His interference on the run awas
perfect and he deserves a great deal of
credit for the speed he developd under
such adverse conditions,

A remarkable thing about the game
was that time was not taken out for a
single injury and only one five-yard pen-
alty was imposed by the referee. On
several occasions time was called to re-
move some of the mud from the players’
eyes but with the exception of a slight
injury to McAlister the game had a
clean record in this respect.

Spann, Johnston and Douglas were ,
the hig stars for Davidson, Frank Ferst :
by making four touchdowns distinguish-
ed himself, while Scarboro with his spec-
tacular yun also deserves mast favorable
comment. Because it was next to im-
possible to tell who had the ball a de-
tailed account may credit the wrong
man with gains, in a few instances.

First Quarter.

Johnston kicked off 30 yards to Ferst,
who returned 10. McDonough made
three through right tackle. Ferst hit |
right guard for 10 yards. Gaiver made’
three thru center. Gaiver made five:
more in the same place. McDonough
made two over right tackle for _ first |
‘down. Ferst went around right end for |

.

McDonough made first down thru cen-1® * * © * © © © @ @ @ @

ter. Guill made seven thru right tackle
but fumbled. Davidson’s ball on her
own 25-yard line,

Spann fumbled but recovered. John-
ston punted 20 yards to Ferst, who let
it hit. McDonough hit left tackle for
five yards. Gaiver fumbled, Davidson
recovered. Spann made one around left. .
enc; Murray lost two at right end,
Johnston punted 30 yards te McDon-
ough.  MeDonough went thru left .
tackle for’ nine yards; Guill duplicated
for six more, Ferst bucked center for
nine yards and first down. Ferst made
four at left tackle. Guill ran over left
tackle for three. McDonough made one
at left tackle. Ferst hit left tackle for
six. Ferst went 19 yards around right
end for first touchdown. Fincher kicked
goal. Score: Tech 7, Davidson o.

Johnston kicked 35 yards to Gaiver,
who returned 10. McDonough bucked
left tackle for three. Gaiver made three
more at same place, Ferst made first
down over right tackle. Gaiver hit cen-
ter for two. Perst circled left end for
four, McDonough dove over — right
tackle for first down. Guill bucked cen-
ter for two. Gaiver hit the same spot
for five, McDonough made first down
at the same place. Ferst- circled right
end for two. McDonough bucked seven
vards over deft tackle. McDonough
made’ first down at center. Ferst ran
22 vards around left end for this second
tovchdowr. Fincher missed gual. Score:
Tech 13. Davidson o.

Second Quarter.

Grail kicked off go yards to Johnston,
who returned 22. McFadden failed to
wan ar right end. Johnston punted over
‘Veeh!s goal line, ‘Tech's ball on her 20-
yard line, McDonough made two at
right tackle. Ciaiver busted thru. left
tackle for three, Ferst made two. at cen-
ter. Gaiver made first dawn at the same
place. Gruill carried it over right tackle
for two, MeDonough made four thru
Jeft tackle. Gaiver failed to gain. Da-
vidson's ball. Forvard pass, Spann to
Douglas, incomplete.  Huftines threw .
Johnston for five-yard Joss. Johnston
kicks over ‘Ueeh's goal line. Tech's
ball on her own 20-vard line.

Ferst made one around right) end;
Guilt hit center for two. Ferst punted
ao yards to) Davidson. Spann was
thrown for one-vard loss. McFadden hit
center for three, Spann repeated for
three more, Forward pass, Spann to
Douglass, incomplete. Tech’s ball on
her 22-yard line. McDonough hit cen-
ter for nine, Guill made first down.
Gaiver went over right tackle for two
yards, Ferst failed to gain at right end.
Gaiver made one at center. Ferst punt-

(Continued on Page 5)

* ee *# @ @ «@
” CALENDAR. -
* °
* Wednesday — Davidsonians arrive, *
* — unquestionably, .
* Wednesday night—Second evange- *
* — istic service. .
.* Thursday night—Last of evangelis- *
* tic services. .
* Friday night—Movies. bd
* Saturday—The R. O. T. C. *
* marches up Trade street in Char- *
*° — Jotte. *
* Saturday afternoon—Football: Da- *
*  vidson vs. N. C. State at Wearn *
* — Field, Charlotte. .
* Sunday morning 10—Bible classes, *
* — chapter vii. .
* Sunday night—“Y” meeting. .
* Monday night—Freshman literary *
societies. bd
e

HURRAH! EVERYBODY'S OFF TO CHARLOTTE SATURDAY
