4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN| opin Form |

, H. A. Hill, Acting Editor. jf at =
| | EXCHANGE
A] COLUMN 11
——, pp ——4

Founded by Clase of '15
‘The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. (Editor's Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please
feel at liberty to do so. Let's have more
_{discussion, pro or con, by the students

on college problems from now on.)

Bntered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: :
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

D. W. ROBBRTS......00-seesrssesceccsseesccssevesvcsssecscesrsesseees ani eed T Read the College Exchanges in the Library
J. B. CASSELL... . "**yMignitent Ealtor; he Value of the R. O. T. C. am
iB BCRENCK ” . | (Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian”
B. HL. ABKEW.....-cccececesceceeee sreeerecseseeceesenenee ns Sporting Editors The question of “The Value of the | exchanges weekly with over fifty leading
J. ¢. McCASKILL...... veeecees rtsteseceeeeececeeeesee seas Alumnl Editor R. O. T. C. at Davidson” is a topic college publications. We shall strive
Ot SPoNGe IIE TCI! Gampas Balter ;much discussed. these days on the Hill. / through this column to reflect the best
L. G. CALHOUN. .....-esccsccceccecscescecvcsuesteveccscnsecsseneesees ¥. M. ¢. A; Balto’ Everyone interested has something to thoughts of the college world and to!
$a GABTON Sin occ cence. Literary Editor jsay on the matter. The whole student | publish news that will interest all who
J. M. GASTON. Jr... Oiviciay ery eater atter. — : . t

BR. R. MoILWAINE......cscscccsccccncccecncncnsssesessesecccescesas e! ere body can be divided into three classes, as|are acquainted with college life. The;

editor reserves the right, however, to,
criticise, misquote or burn any and all
exchanges).

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY. |
About sixteen men will represent the ;
University in collegiate contests this
coming year. From the candidates tak-
ing part in the preliminary trials, sixteen

to the final decision un the matter. First,
there are those who never can or will

get any benefit from the course, because
W. P. CUMMING . L, MAHOOD

"OM. MITCHELL fe dislike military training and refuse
. CRAIG. oN R *RIT2ER . B BRDITENHIRT f put anything into the work. Second,

REPORTERS’ CLUB

. R. DOUBLES there are those who have never had mili-

eRe ?. ¥ MARTIN. W. W. MO®RD tary training before or else those who

J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHARDS ‘like it, and put everything into their

BE. H. TUFTS J. Cc, WOOL work, regardless of the amount of

credit received. Third, there is that

class which is greatly in the minority,

Manager |who like military and want to take it

DININII eeees peclstant Manager because they realwe the beneficial effects

seeeeees Circulation Manager| 13+ can be derived from the R. O. T.

Assistant Managers/C course; but who do not feel it worth

their time to continue and receive only
half credit for it.

EDITORI AL ‘I| For the benefit of this last class some-

thing ought to be done by the Faculty

and college officials to make the course

(Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts, due to illness, S. H. | more jue, There are scores of

itor-in-eChi , rising Juniors who drop it after wo

Askew has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem ) year basic course, who would be of great

A man works thru long years to become a Senior and enjoy the same pleas- value to their country if they continued

ures and privileges as a Freshman. it. They are setting aside the very

thing which will teach them the princi-

’ few more ideal Chapels like we had Saturday ? ples of leadership, discipline, obedience
Why can’t we have a sialhiinabemeeiamneiinhai and mentality; all because too much
If you continue to apply yourself as you are at present, will you be better /time is required for the credit given. A

hen you graduate? If not, who is to blame? golden opportunity is being lost to learn
fitted to serve the world when you g these guutice of menhant

A complete analysis of the question
might be made by asking each party con-
cerned what they think of it. ’

1. What does the Government think
of it?

Realizing the need of men of char-

abili hip in the
CLASS DISTINCTION. acter and ability for leaders p in

There are some customs of the larger universities and colleges which Da- qtione of the Ti and international
vidson has no desire to imitate, but there are some that have proved their value has picked Davidson, among other col-
and the progressive spirit of the college demands their consideration. Out- leges, to train these men in, to fill the
standing among these is the substitution of class distinctions for organized haz- coming vacancies. The Government be-
ing. The latter. cmpraces sie Preys meetings, Fresh parades, and promis- tieves in i enough to make thousands of
cuous bestowal o . ars -

Public sentiment has long since placed its stamp of disapproval on these ance of a ROTC at ‘Davide
methods of drawing class lines. Even thosg who engage in them do so for the[ What does the Military Depart-
lack of a better way of showing their seniority. These methods having become ment think of it? .
old-fashioned and out of style, others must be sought. The Military Department believes it

One of the simplest ways of classifying a Freshman is by requiring him to|,, be a course that should occupy five
wear at all times a red and black cap, or one of any other color, provided they |hours of practical work and recitation
are uniform and distinctive. The success with which this system has met in and as much more time per week as is
other institutions is unquestioned. Gradually the Freshman becomes attached necessary to prepare the work
to his trade-mark and wears it as a matter of course. At the same time there is 3. What does the Faculty think of
being instilled within him the proper place which a new man should occupy. it?

This question has for a long time been the source of much argument and The Faculty believes it ‘to be equiv-
discussion. No one knew who should raise the issue and consequently no one alent to one-half of any course that is
acted. It was finally left to the Sophomore class to present the matter for defi- | offered and therefore offer one-half
nite action. By introducing resolution guaranteeing the cessation of organized credit towards graduation for it.
hazing and suggesting a suitable remed’ they have shown a very commendable 4. . What does the Corps think of it?
as well as progressive . i i iv-

What other colleges have done Davidson can do and more. We expect alent Sn time spent. mi fo be the equ ne
within a short time to see every Fresh nan with his proper mark of honor and for instance, Greek, Junior Chemistry,
thus pass another milepost in our onwa d progress. or two courses in History. In value it is

ee undoubtedly worth as much to a stu-
GET BUSY,WAR VETS. dgnt as the average course on the cir-

To the numerous organizations o1 the campus another should be added, |riculum and therefore full credit should

one which could be a wonderful power and influence in the lives of some men. |be given.
The gathering together of the men who have seen service either in this country Fellows, there is just one solution for
or with the A. E. F. and their organization as a working force could be easily /u. to follow. Go in to the work with
accomplished. The idea is spreading among the colleges. At two universities |, vim, put some D. C. pep in our drill
in this country there has been established a post of the American Legion. Oth- walk around with our heads up and
ers will probably be applying in the nea future. ears open, consider it as a real ticket

Great things are expected of the Anerican Legion. It has within its scope | and show the Faculty that is doing us
the livest talent of the nation. Becaus most of the men eligible are already as much good as any other course, and
members of the Legion at their homes i is not necessary to have an official post then in about January, ask for , full
established. Co-operation with the Legion, however, could be effectively ac- credit. Remember, we voted it in for a
complished and the principles for which they are working could be put before certain length of time, and if it’s to be
the local organization. a hindrance inste:

Already Dr. Lingle has endeavored to get together the men of the A. E. F., vote it ora of cay
but nothing definite has been done, It is left to some enterprising man to promote
the movement and establish such an organization at Davidson.

ters (or this issue are: G. W. Mauze, A. P. Ormand, E. Fewell, H. M. Morris, C. D.
Tule ee Fe. Menalog. J. P. Booth.

would very likely have to send to Char-|
lotte for an expert every time our sys-
tem happened to get out of fx. How!
would we know when to go to classes
while our bells were out of orue:? Petr-
haps with a bugle. but that wouid be
far more unreliable than any hel!

Also in a system of this sort there
would be the necessity of keeping cur |
tent in all buildings constantly, thus:
adding a very big lump to the expenses
of the college. There will always be an
element here whose idea of being funny
is to inconvenience others by finding
ways to make the electric bells ring at the
wrong time and for a long time if the
wires were crossed in a place hard to get
to quickly. This kind of trick would net
be easy to prevent for there would not:
be one but several bells to tinke- with.

Also our bell is the church bell, and if
we abolished its use the church would
have to adopt the new system or not at
all, and have you ever heard of an elec-
tric bell calling people to church? Per-
hap it is against the rules to ring it at
the wrong time, but when the team wins
a big game the old bell nearly always
helps us to arouse pep and its absence
would be missed very much.

The present system does pretty well
and the expense is very small as the
one who rings the bell is the only one
to be paid, but is not paid in money, but
in reduction of his college expenses.

Let us not think of giving up our old
friend who not only disturks our morn-
ing slumbers with its soft (?) -peals, but
also announces that we have lost our
last chance to get “shot” on class and
May now enjoy our rice and gravy plus
grits in peace,

(Signed )

MORE INTERESTED.

PERS

Charlotte will be under martial spell as never before when Colonel with
the R. O. T. C. and the band start up Trade street November 8.

The Commissary heartily endorses the wearing of Red and Black caps for
Freshmen.

WE are new to

America’s finest
while savings.

Does Not Approve of Electric Bell
System at Davidson.

WHERE IS THE POLITY CLUB? | benefit derived from it. However, due
I'S TIME FOR A RESUR- to the disturbed conditions of last year.| In the last edition of The Davidson-
RECTION. the Polity Club was crowded out and lian it was proposed to abolish cur an-
Back in the spring of 1916, while the| interest died down, indeed it was al-|cient and respected disturber of our
great war was raging in Europe, a Pol-| most forgotten. morning slumbers. The substitute pro-
ity Club was organized here at David-| Now that the war is over, leaving in|posed was the installing of an electric
son. This club had for its object the| its wake a vast number of international | bell system worked by a clock located
study and discussion of international | problems to be solved, would not a club|in the library, with bells scattered jn each
problems. Leaders of national move-jof this kind be a fine thing? Let u3lof the campus buildings.
ments were brought here from time to] bring it back to life and have a better] In thinking over the subject, heside.
time to deliver lectures. Thus a great} Polity Club than ever before at David-|the first expense of the clock and bell
deal of interest was aroused and much|son. * |system, which alone would be large, we

oe

will be chosen and organized into an
“Advanced Debate” class—The Ken-
tucky Kernel. ?

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has decid-
ed to give two script dances each month
with the consent of the Dean. A new
rule also has gone into effect recently,
which says that no one will be allowed
in the dance hall under the influence of
intoxicating liquors—-The Red and
Black.

TRINITY.
The R. O. T. C. has been organized

and contains four companies with a lit-
tle over fifty men in each. The estab-
lishment of a signal corps company will
be applied for at once. Major Crawford
hopes to organize a military band soon,
for which the Government will supply
the instruments.—The Trinity Chron-
icle.

UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI.

Plans are under way at the Univer-
sity for the establishment of student self-
government which is proposed for the
better co-operation between all classes.— °
The Mississippian,

RAT YELL.

Rah—Ma—Pa
Rah—Ma—Pa
Help—Exchange.

GEORGIA TECH.

The Freshmen at Tech are patiently
awaiting the arrival of their caps. It
is a gold cap bearing on the front a
white “F,” and is to be worn all the
time—The Technique.

UNIVERSITY OF N. CAROLINA.

A Graduate Club is the latest addi-
tion to the long list of organizations on
the Hill. Membership includes all grad-
uate students registered in the Univer-

sity.—The Tar Heel.

“The man who carries his troubles
around with him should see that there
is a hole in his pocket."—Exchange.

BOSTON TECH.

To date, the total enrollment is over
3,000 students. Many men have come
from other colleges, which explains the
cause of this overflow.—The Tech.

LAWRENCE COLLEGE.

The social committees of the Y. W.
and Y. M. C. A. aided the students to
become better acquainted with one an-
other by means of the all college walk
around held in the gymnasium last Fri-
day.—The Lawrentian,

ONAL

Mr. Yunefello

THIS IS “YOUR” CLOTHES
SHOP

Charlotte, but a

chain of 25 stores in other cities
enables us to furnish you with

clothes at worth-

WE EARNESTLY REQUEST
that you call and inspect our

“COLLEGE CUT. CLOTHES’
AT $30.00, $35,00, $40.00

ig so

24 W. Trade St. STORES EVERYWHERE

