THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919 . 8

Devotional News

Invitation to State Student ee a en made a short speech on

Volunteers to Hold the new system of representation, after :
Co nference Here which the meeting was adjourned.

. “Faithfulness Fine Foundation
Meeting to be Held Latter Part of for Firm Christianity”

fqsssessssesssscee.< oa ae _liacdas sa Benenewestaen » eceeaee}.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS °

Ihave just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street.
Work guaranteed

GIVE ME A TRIAL

Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra.
Four Suits for $1.00

Harris Pressing Club

SAM HARRIS, Prop. ;

For Big ~

Occasions |

Whenyoudontwanttostop

short of the very finest-gi

March — The Picked Men of —-
Other Colleges to Be Here So Says Coach Hart of Horner in
Address to Y. M. C. A.
A formal invitation to the North Car- Last Sunday Night
olina Student Volunteer Union for For-

‘eign Missions to hold their annual con- A rather difficult situation arose at THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

ference with us next Spring has been is- the “Y" service last Sunday night, when
sued. It is the custom of me sUnion to Captain Hart. who is coach at Horner
hold these conferences in February oF agititary Academy, in Charlotte, did not ! Something New in Davidson

(eceessasscscssscccsseccctesscsssssen

WHITE DRUG CO., Agents March of each year. In 1915 the con- .arrive in time for the service. Dwight

ference held its sessions at Queens and

joined with the Laymen's Convention at Chalmers, the “Y” president, met Dr. FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN

Charlotte in the night sessions. Since Sentelle a few minutes before the serv-

G ENTLEMEN that time it has met in Greensboro or ice, and explained to him the situation. | AS YOU PASS

Send your next batch of

vicinity.
Davidson has had the largest band in Although Dr. Sentelle had refused all

the State and has almost invaribly had former requests to speak at the “Y™

films to the largest representation at the confer. services, he agreed to speak if Captain |
CUSHMAN'S STUDIO} cneeriainint this body. Tt will Be lege” rather of Myint ne ene Gee asso SSS
chara t.c. | ur avai brining the tun, and mike DS ONE GRADUATE
EXPERT SERVICE Carolina to our campus, as in this way speak. He had just started when Cap- :
H. A.HIL Ag 7 Rample|°V"scaring’ eminent speakers ethers automobile scldet, cane tn, Dr. Sem itt

= unavailabe But it is hoped that the telle immediately introduced the new
ry olmeers Wil see fit to give the 1920 con- speaker, who then took charge of the
er ervice, @F ference to Davidson and it is certain that . a

Davidson will do her best to give the ‘™ecting. The student body hopes to
Work visitors a royal good time while here. hear Dr. Sentelle finish his talk at an

D. W. Roberts is vice-President of early date. .
Model St La Co. the Union and iH the past, Davidson nes After explaining the cause of his de-
el Steam Laundry Co., ten represented among the officers O¥ Jay Coach Hart expzessed his interest: in

Fr: Pri -R. . EL oF . . .
ean aed odsitiy Weaods, RE M ' Davidson College and his pleasure in

Charlotte. Laundry called for H. B. Arbuckle represents Davidson an speaking to Davidson students, “The sub-
ject of the talk was Faithfulness; faith-
fulness to your work, faithfulness to
| ‘The issuance of this invitation comes Your friendships, and faithfulness to

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents through the working of the Volunteer Christianity. “Phe man, the tem te
Band, but the whole student body has student body that can pull together and_

No. 30 and 26 Chambers indicated in orie wav or another: their be faithful to the end is on the road to |
approval and hearty cooperation, ‘The success. “Thru faithful work one can

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY faculty approves the invitation as well accomplish an otherwise insuperable

as do many of the towns people who task. Edison and _Padarewski stand
foremost in their callings among the men f
Ly

" heartily agreed to assist in any way pos- ,
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY isible. te up to the atudent body to of today. According to thetz own state- |

. 4
W E L E R S ee show their zeal. Davidson is on the ‘ments, they owe their accomplishments
“ J E . to faithfulness in their work. Ifa man fir7rrer*e*" ;

map in athletics. She puts our excel: has been faithful to his work, he has suc-; ft,
e
Make Your Stove and Furniture

lent debating teams. She should land
Look new with our Stains and Paints. Stove Pipe

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced
$308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Train-
ing School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man.
When an agent signs:a contract with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to
“go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then
a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in
touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen
his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good.
Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company

Greensboro, Nl. 6.
A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary. é

the present advisory committee of the *
Union.

Friday nights.

_i. Seat aeeeswaswwwsccsecsrase. |

Bpasteccswewwenn__-

H

661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. the 1920 Student Volunteer Conference ceeded.

and establish herself firmly in this field. | Again, a man should be faithful to
; his friendships. One is judged, and is

r Speak a good word for the Conference. , , :
rewn s ave often judged rightly, by the friends he :
“MINISTERIAL CANDIDATES keeps. Many men are ruined for life

a

4
a
‘

"
a
Hy
Ly
8
t
ie
ie
ie
N
4
4

THE a 0 eNEWE eG. because of bad friendships they form | . - . .
THE BLE | PLEDGE OREN! FWED ALLEG! K gehen they come to college, One ca Enamel, all kinds of Stains and White Enamels.
PLACE | 2 x: not be true to his friendships unless he,
TO EAT | OF SCRIPTURES. is careful in his choice of friends. DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
. ¥ inisteri : swept Finally, be faithful) to Christianity. | :
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at The Ministerial candidates have sae te does not need the individual half as |

adopted a series of resoliitiors pledging | ee ML:
’ ‘themselves to a stricter observance of the Much as he needs Christianity, for Chris-| [fs scccssenecee: perescseuceees
rown § are standards of the Scriptures, The matter, tHinity has stood and will stand. Seven
‘was first discussed two weeks ago whe Million men who fought and died in the

AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR “ Watts cession” “elwar tell us that. The only way of
AMERICAN PEOPLE te corer Watts  Devident Preebemscleansing and saving humanity is to ap

tery” that it appoint a committee to Ply the Principles af Christianity. The GC Wh B . L |
‘wor ‘ ; 4, great problems of the world will be me ul JS OUT
Booe "5 Ma rket work out some plan for accomplishing by men faithful to Christianity. Get 0

i . Th it i yas ° yo
this end. The committee appointed was hack to God and everything will right

Cummings, Bitzer and Neel. a
The we w itself. Leet this be the motto of every-

| The resolutions this committee dre et tn . @ 99?
A one who is faithful to God and himself:
Fresh ve eiee read by Cummings at the last I will be true, for there are those that Clo thes e

M meeting. The moderator, Neel, who | trust me:
eats [was also a member of the committee, . ,
‘added a few words of explanation. Then I would be pure, for there are those who ry
; ‘

_ Gamble, Clark, McGirt, Harrel, | - . a,
At All Times _Sialiingsworth, Winter and many others'! Would be strong for there is much to; ( An important question for every man

spoke in favor of the plan. The resolu- suffer;

‘tions, with a few verbal changes, were I would be brave, for there is much to} ,| to decide.
GENTLEMEN passed unanimously and stand as fol-i_ dare.

lows: I would be friend to all—the foe—the .
“a sot ° . rrenaless ;
Wher in Need of Ton- gout he wene sometine tne I would be giving, and forget the gift; Let Tarymore help you. A full line
° members of the Ministerial Band those |! would be humble, for 1 know my of all wool fabrics, latest models, all
guaranteed.

H i : “ean [iyi . weakness ;
sorial Work, give high standards of Christian living ex: I would look up—and laugh—and love

—and lift.

. ‘pected of candidates for the ministry,
us a trial !we of the committee recommend:
“1, That the band go on record as

‘condemning all flagrant violations of the SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
Norton Barber Shop standards of the Scriptures, such és pro- The Sunday School how! ; e
Next to Postoffice fane language or expressions, Sunday e Sunday Schools are showing up! FF M h CF W ]
studying, petty theft, obscene pictures, |well now and they are sustaining their | att eCWws 1 son,

modern dancing, gaming with cards,'good attendance. The attendance |

\A Nice Line of Pen- gambling, and drinking; or of student the past week was as follows:

istandards of action such as hazing, light Teachers. Members. ' Representatives 16 Chambers
nants, College J €w- _jstealing and cheating. ; Caldwell .. ... 8 70
“2, That the officers of the band be | Cornelius .. ... 7 67
elry, Watches and ‘given power to uphold these standards Brawley rar | 60 U
Al cl k -by private then public feprimand, b Shearer's ce nee 8 52 aS >
arm OcKS expulsion from the band or by notifi- | | rrr | ‘Oo ° e e
[exe of the candidate’s home Presby- Oak Grove cee 30 M ention t h e D av id son 1an
w.s. HENDERSON, tery. That th dia ledge th Cowan’s.. .. .. 5 20 h Y Pp t : . Ad .
° “¢. at the candidates pledge them, _ —_—
The Jeweler selves to uphold these standards in every Total... ...... 40 349 Ww en yOu ratronize ver tisers
