The DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1919

3

With the Alumni

M. A. Thompson, ex-'20, who was
wounded in the gallant charge of the
Marines at Chateau Thierry and after-
wards recounted this stirring charge be-
fore the Davidson S. A. T. C. unit in
September, is now in Boston receiving
treatment from a nerve specialist in the
hope of regaining use of his arm. He is
pursuing some studies at Harvard Uni-
versity, and hopes to come back and fin-
ish with his class. He writes: ‘Maybe
if 1 du not have to spend too much time
i the hospital 1 can join my old class
yet.”

*’Thomp” has the true Davidson spirit

and his classmates and friends will en-]
tertain the fond hope of having him with:

us in the near future.

REGISTRATIONS WITH
AM. UNIV. UNION IN PARIS

(From Nouv. 5 to Dec. 9, 1918)
Davidson College.

Currie, HE. Me. A., ‘16, ist Lt. Inf.
35th Division.

Gilchrist, John W. S.. ‘15, ast Lt.
Aerial Observer S. C. 1ogth Aero Sqdn.

Patterson, Leslie H., 18, Sergt. 3orst
Amer. Tank Center. care British ‘Tank
Hars. B. E. F.

Thompson, J. W.. ‘10. 3718t Inf. Sec-
teur Postal 229, Co. G.

Mullen, LeRoy A. ‘16, 1st Lt. Air
Service, Paris Hqrs. A. P. O. 702.

Rev. J. A. Carriker, "15, who was re-
cently discharged from the service, spent
Sunday on the campus. :

Before enlisting Mr. Carriker was
working in British Columbia. During
the summer he had at his bachelor quar-
ters a ten days’ visit from Dr. Grant,
the original Sky Pilot, described — by
Ralph Connor, which was spent in hunt-
‘ing and fishing.

Corporal J. N. Hillhouse, ex-"13, is
completing eighteen months of service
overseas in the photographic laboratory
of the Signal Corps. He writes from
Paris: “We hope to get through our
photographic work by next spring and
zo home. But we are busy now with all
the Kings and) Presidents and. things
coming into Paris almost daily.”

LETTER TO ALUMNI.

To the Alumni:

The annual fee of $100 for David-
son’s membership in the American Uni-
versity Union is now due and all in-
terested alumni are requested to forward
to Prof. A. Currie or myself their con-
tribution to this fund. Several wecks
ago a letter was sent to the alumni who
contributed last year to our membership
in the union, but up to date only threc
have responded. Please let us have good
contributions as soon as convenient. Re-
member that the services.of the Union
as a meeting place and rest center for
Davidson men when they go to Paris is
more needed at this time than when the
war was actually going on. We
received numerous letters last year tell-
ing how much pleasure our alumni got
out of the Union. Let us continue our
membership. We need $60 by next mail.
Can't you write us a check for $5.00,
or maybe $10.00?

Thanking you, I am

Sincerely,

J. M. McCown next.
COMEDY.

Tf there is anything funnier than a
200-pound girl being rowed around a
6x4 park lake by a dashing voung 120-
pound anaemic, show me!—Ex.

NOTICE TO ALUMNI.

It is requested and very vigorously
urged that the alumni of Davidson Col-
lege who have served in any capacity
with che American Expeditionary Force
and who have snap-shot photographs,
taken in France, forward copies of all
such photographs, together with — the
necessary explanatory information to be
used as captions, to othe Officer in
Charge. Pictorial Section, — Historical
Branch, War Plans Division, General
Staff. Army War College. Washington,
D.C.

These photographs are requested for
incorporation in the permanent pictorjal
files, which will serve as) the — official
photographic record and history of the
war,

C. EL. Weeks,
Colonel, General Staff.
Chief, Historical Branch, W.P.D.
By A. Goodrich,
Captain, U.S, A.. Pictorial, Section.

“«

WHY SHOULD YOU SWEAR?

it would look so nice in
\

1. Because
print.

2. Because it is such a conclusive
proof of taste and good breeding.

3. Because it is just what a man’s
mother enjoys having her son do.

4. Because it is such a help te man-
heod and virtue in many ways.

§. Because it is such a guod way of
increasing one's self-respect.

6. Because it is such an clegant way
of expressing one’s thoughts.

7. Because it is positive evidence: of
acquaintance with good literature.

8. Because it furnishes such: a. good
example and training for the boys,

gy. Because it is such a sure way of
miking one’s self agreeable to his
friends, _

10, Becayse it is such an infallible

way of improving one’s chances in the
hereafter.—Daily Kansan,

WOMEN'S RIGHTS.

A man can’t sell his house without his
wife's consent.

He must pay her bills, whatever they
miy be, or for what.

If he deserts her she can haul him
hack inte jail.

If she deserts him, he takes his medt
cine, saith the law.

If he jilts his sweetheart, she can pet
him for breach of promise.

If she deserts her lover, he gets the
horselaugh and snicker.

If he whips her, he gets the post; if
she hits him with a skillet, the reporters
write it humorously.

If he dies, she pets his estate; if she
dies, he gets the funeral bill and her
mother.

And still women keep kicking about
having some rights !—Ex

HOME, SWEFT HOME!
Mrs, Gaziny, the next morning: “I
don’t want to criticize you, Clarence:
As a hushand you average up pretty well.
I wouldn't criticize vou for the world.
But when a man comes home at 2 in the
morning with another man's hat on.
bursts into the front door singing ‘Hail.
Columbia,’ puts his shoes into the um-
brella jar, hangs his coat on the gas-rack
and goes to sleep on the bottom step. |
begin to feel that he is open to suspicion.
Clarence—open to suspicion !"—Ex.

A REGULAR KICK.

“Say, you! What you goin’ t’ do
about that leghorn hen you sold me for
a layer?”

“What's th’ matter wit’ her?"

“Nothin'’. only she don‘t lay none:
she’s learnin’ t’ crow. an’ she’s a darned

old suffragette !"—Ex.

THE PRESIDENT’S WELCOMELas well as others, must be conciliatory

ABROAD,

and open-minded, ‘The plain people in
the lands which the commissioners rep-

Every American, whatever his politi-] resent desire not only the consummation

cal affiliations, should be proud of the
way in which Mr. Wilson has thus far
carried himself in’ Europe and of the
depth and genuineness ot the popular
demonstrations in his honor, — His
speeches, pertinent to the various occa:
sions on which they were delivered, have
net only been phrased in the faultless
English of which he is g master, but they
have throbbed with genuine appreciation
of the warmth of feeling felt for Amer-
ica by those who. preeted him, “Vhey
have rurigg trie to the preat ideals which
he had already set torth in the state pa-
pers that had prepared the way tor’ his
cuming.

It is worth something at this junc
ture in human affairs to have the head
of the most powerful nation on earth go-
ing frome land to dand and speaking
words such as these: "There is only one
thing that can bind peoples together and
that is common devotion to the right.”
“Back of us is that imperative yearning
of the world to have all disturbing: ques-
tions quieted, to have all threats against
peace silenced, to have just men come to-
gether everywhere for a common ob-

ject.” Friendship’ is not a mere senti-
invent. Patriotism is not a mere senti-
ment, It is based upon a principle, up

on the principle that leads a man to
give more than he demands.” “Tbe
lieve as this war has drawn nations
temporarily together in’ a combination
af plivsical force, we shall now be drawn
together ina combination of moral force
thar is irresistible.> [It is moral force as
much as physical force that has defeated
the effort to subdue the world. Words
have cut as deep as swords.”

of a just and enduring peace, but the
substitution of a new international order
for the old-time balance of power.

We expect such an outcome from the
Paris conference and when it comes, we
trust that the reactionary elements in
the American Senate will find it prudent
to fall in with the desires of forward
looking, people the world over, It was
the Senate of the United States which,
by rejecting the treaties which John
Hay so caretully formulated, sent one of -
the noblest Secretaries of State which
America has ever had into his later vears
with a disappointed and sorrawing
heart. . We do not believe any such fate
is in store for President: Wilson.—Con-
pregationalist.

THE COLLEGE SPORT.

A stranger on any college campus will
behold a certain species roaming at large.
which, at first glance, is often taken tor
a pietuce, but it more closely examined
will reveal Life.

This particular individual nay be de-
seribed as tollows. -latest style hit, dorm
fitting suit and overcoat, cipstrette in one
corner of the*mouth, and usually con
spicnous horn rimmed glasses on his
nose. Ele is found ain every college and
university, and he is as liable to be a
senior as a treshman, the only difference
between the more advanced college sport
and the new one being that the former
ix beyond anv last hope of redemption.

He is entirely devoid ot any college
spirit, or any desire to mingle with the
“common herd” of students whe are do-

The soil of both America and Europe ing things in’ school athletics, politics,

is fallow for the dropping of seedlike

or any other activities, not to speak of

thoughts like these. “The man who sows studies,

them may come short of applying per
fectly the principles involved to all the
problems, domestic and foreign, with
which he has toe de. He may not al
ways act with absolute consistency. But
the world respects and honors a man
who sets forth in intelligible and appeal
ing language the great new objectives
toward which the nations must move if
our civilization ix ever to become really
Christion. “That is why the throngs ac-
Clainy Mr. Wilson as he passes up) the
Champs Elysees and along Pall Mall
and through the streets of Mianchester
and Carlisle, “They: see in him. same.
thing more than a graceful and polished
orator, an eminent scholar and teacher,
and a keen. alert American; they see. in
Mr. Wilson a man who was able to
bring Americans of varying shades of
opinion inte the war practically as one
mighty unit. “Chey see also in him one
whose cyes were never so fixed upon the
absolute necessity of a conclusive victory
that he could nat see and consecrate him-
self and his fellow countrymen to the
tusks of reconstruction.

It looks now as if his Scotch shrewd-
ness had served Mr. Wilson well in go
ing first to France and then to England.
Had he gone first to the latter country
and perfected his understanding with
Lloyd George, he might have been ac-
cused of trying to overweight the con-
ference with English and American in-
fluence, whereas by going first to the
Continent, he has shown an equal readi-
ness to hear what the leaders of French
and Italian opinion have to say on the
mooted question. [tis from them rather
than from Lloyd George that opposition
is likely to come to Mr. Wilson's belief
that all nations should be included in
the league and that the formation of
such a league should be one of the early
and major concerns of the peace confer-
ence.

But we do not expect to see dissension
at the peace table over the essential
items in Mr. Wilson's program. He,

This aoble man of ease is the college
sport. and his bearing. and attitude often
inspire the ‘casual observer to seize a
plank and pat hin on the head. Ex.

INCONSISPENCY,

When a maiden is young and you call
her a kitten,
She smiles at that;
But a few years later, is she tickled to
death when you
Call her a eat? Ken.

THE JEWELRY GIREE,

She has ruby lips, eyes that shine like
diamonds, pearly teeth and an emerald
disposition,

And her head—
rarest: ivory !—lex,

Ah! her head is the

RIGHT AGAIN,

Said the plumber to the iceman, in
August: “You robber!"

Said. the iceman to the plumber, in
January: ‘You thief!"-

Said the public: “Gentlemen,
agree with you both !?’—Ex.

we

Sergeant (drilling awkward squad )—
“Company! Attention company, lift up
vour left lez and hold it straight out in
front of you!” One of the squad held
up his right leg by mistake. This
brought his right-hand companion’s left
leg and his own right leg close together.
The officer, seeing this, exclaimed an-
grily, “And who is that fellow over
there holding up both legs ?”—Chicago
News:

“There we stood, the tiger and my-
self, in the thick of the jungle. face to
face!” “O Major, how perfectly fright-
ful it must have been for both of you!”
—Passing Show.
