| ON TO BLUE RIDGE |

di. ra

Vol. VI.

JUNIORS CHAMPS

JA ViDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 30, 1919.

No. 26

Both Debates Scheduled {Twenty-Five Our Goal [Wildcats Divide Honors |Davidson Represented

For Monday Night

Mercer Debated in Atlanta, While W,

& L. is Met Here.
Both Davidson's Intercollegiate de-
bates will be held next Monday night.
the fifth of May. R. D. Hall and Em-
ery Flinn will oppose Mercer Univer-
sity in Atlanta, while W.. M. Currie and
E. G. Lilly are battling with Wash-
ington and Lee on the Hill. “The At-
lanta debate will be beld in the Geor-
gia Tech Y. M. C. A. Auditorium.
Though the attractive Agnes Scott au-
ditorium could not be secured, it
hoped that a number of Agnes Scott
girls will be present. as well as Alumni
of Davidson and Mercer, ‘Tech stu-
dents, and visitors. A strong team will
represent Mercer, and a close contest
is expected. Dr. Lyons, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta,
will act as, presiding officer.

Fvery Davidson student should be
in Shearer Hall Monday night for the
Davidson- Washington and Lee debate.
Arrangements for the contest wdre
made tate in the season so that the
time of preparation has been much
shorter than usual. However., Currie
and Lilly have put a good month's work
into their speeches and give plromise
of putting up a snappy contest. Messrs.
G. P. Wilson and W. J. Rushton will
be the W. and L. speakers.

The subject in both debates will be
Resolved: ‘That the U. S. Govern-
ment should own and operate the Rail-
roads, a subject which practically every
college in the country is debating this
season. Davidson will defend the neg-
ative in both instances.

Here's to the success of both teams.
They deserve the heart. backing of
the whole student body.

is

GET THE SPIRIT! GO TO BLUE
RIDGE!.

Dr. Arbuckle. Mr. Miles, and the
Y. M. C. A. President are going. In
this last week six men in the student
body have decided to go. Our goal is
twenty-five men for Blue Ridge this
summer. No one who has been to a
Blue Ridge Conference has ever re-
gretted it. If you are interested, see
Mr. Miles or Chalmers about it.

SIGMA UPSILON
ELECTS OFFICERS.

At a meeting of the Sigma Upsilon
Wednesday night an interesting and
profitable discussion of the works and
characteristics of Bret Harte was led by
E. G. Lilly. Ata previous meeting facts
about his life were discussed. A great
deal of interest was taken in the discus-
sion as shown by the large number tak-
ing part. Love, Pharr, Woods, Hum-
phery and Chalmers brought out some
good points which threw a great deal of
light on the works of Bret Harte.

Officers for the coming year were el-
ected and these men will be installed at
the next meeting.

BLUE RIDGE

For Blue Ridge

Conference to be Held June 13 to 22.

Are You Going?

The Southern Conference, under the
general) management of the [nterna-
tional Committee of Y. MC. A, will
take place at Blue Ridge. 'N. C., from
June 13 through June 22.

The chief aim of the Conference is
to train the college men for greater
service in the war against immorality,
selfishness, and the lack of pood fel-
lowship in. student life.

Every active worker in the Y. M.
C. A. should. if possible, attend this
Conference, if the organization is to
develop as it should in the Colleges.

The Conference opens on the even-
ing of June 13 and the time will be

Lee Hall and

full until the closing meeting on the
22nd.

The daily program will be divided
into three parts. In the morning the
time will be spent in class work. The
afternoon will be spent in recreation of
every description, while lectures by
some of the leading men of America
will be given at night.

The class work will consist of the
study of the great Bible principles. of
the great world problems and a series
of addresses on Life Callings.

The recreation consists in mass
games under Physical Directors. ten-
nis, swimming, haseball, basket ball and
all the other popular games of the pres-
ent day. Some days, this time will be
spent on hikes to Mt. Mitchell and the
many other places of picturesque scen-
ery, in the neighboring country.

(Continued on Page 8)

Football Schedule for 1919

Swimming Pool at Blue Ridge

With A. & E. Team

First Contest Goes 13 es 13 lonings. Trinity
Wins 6-2.

The thirteenth inning may have been
unlucky inthe first part of the week but
a combination of Friday and the thir-
teenth proved too much for AL & Btn
this session they weakened long enough
for one tally to. come across, finishing
the third pitcher's battle of the week,
in which the Wildcats were enpaped.
“Railroad” Clarke was on ‘the mound
for Davidson and hurled his usual good
game, holding his opponents te only
eight safe swats in the thirteen) rounds.
He was given perfect: support ine the
field and was kept out of danger on sev-
eral occasions by fast work on the de-
fense. .

Spann started things off right by rob-

In Atlanta Track Meet

Indications Point Towards a Good
Showing By Team.

—_
“Barring accidents and luck breaking
our way, we hope to bring the bacon
back.” is what) Manger Murray says
thout the track meet Atlanta next
Saturday. Davidson has the best chance
she has ever had. ‘The records of the
field days and track meets held se) far
show that Davidson's track team is equal
to any in the South. Besides, with thir-
teen institutions represented, the points‘
are going to be scattered and so the
chances for us are all the better, Some
of the colleges whom Davidson will con-
test against are Vanderbilt, Sewanee,
Auburn, University of Alabama, Unie’
versity of Georgia, and Georgia ‘ech,

SERGEANTS HAVE ARRIVED
TO ASSIST IN WORK,

Sergeants B,J. O'Connell and Daniel
Carrol have arrived herve to act as assist-
ants tm Col, Mueller.

“Sergeant: O'Connell comes here with.
five years’ experience. tle was last. sta-
tioned at Camp Shelby, Hatteshurg. Mis-
sissippi, with Co. M. of the 2gth Infantry.

Sergeant Carrol tras had three years"
experience in the English arnw, one-half
vear inthe French army, and five vears’
previous experience in the U.S. army.
His last entistment was for the period
of one vear, bepinning the. middle. part
of this month. As Sergeant Carrol has
had officr experience before, bath in and
out of the army, he will probably be used
largely in office work here,

BATTALION INSPECTION
HELD LAST FRIDAY.

bing Burrus of a triple in the first in
ning. After this frame both sides had
little chance to score until the final act.
By means of errors and a free ticket the
bases -become choked with Spann at the
bat. He accidentally laid one in front
of the plate and before Murray realized
what had happened, McAro crossed the
rubber.

In their half of this session A. & E
staged a rally but it failed to material-
ize. With one down, Norwood was sent
in for Sipe and bingled. Burrus also
connected for a safety. Both runners
advanced on a passed ball. Clark set-
tled down and fanned Hudson. P.
Johnson: planted one in the center field
tarbucket and the game was over.

The pitching of Clark and Murray,
the hftting of the whole Red and Black
aggregation, and the grandstand stop by

(Continued on page §)

the district mili-
tary inspector, visited Davidson last: Fri-
day. ‘The inspection of the Battalion
was held Friday morning from 9:30 to
tr:o0, Coal. Conway inspected the Bat-
talion in practically every movement that
has been covered this spring and express-
ed his opinion that it was well drilled.

No definite news about R. O. “T. C.
summer camps could be obtained from
Col. Conway, as no appropriation has
yet been made for the, summer camps. It
is hoped, however, that something defi-
nite regarding these camps will be leara-
ed in the near future.

Lieut.-Col Conway,

DRS. MacCONNELL AND
LINGLE PO RETURN.

The student body will be glad to learn
that Dr. Lingle and Dr. J. W. Mac-

Connell will be back next year, after an

Sept. 20............. Guilford. .......... . Winston-Salem, N.C. Jabsence of two years. They will resume
Sept. 27 .........., Wake Forest................ Wake Forest, N. C. [their former work as Professors. Dr.
Oct. gov eee k eee eee Clemson. ...........4. .e eee Clemson, &. C. [Lingle will have charge of the French
Oct. it .....20.. Washington and Lee... . ic ec cee Lexington, Va. department, while Dr. MacConnell will
Oct. 18 «2.2... JUniv. of 8. C..e. eee cee eens Columbia, S. C. [have charge of the Biology department.
Oct. 25 see eee eee VOMLL......... saa Lexington, Va. At the same time we regret that Dr.
Nov. 1 ......0.. teen e sees Ga. Tech..... 0... 000.0... eee .. Atlanta, Ga. | Clayberg and Dr. Gamond are to leave
Nov. 8 ..... A. & BE. of N.C... ee. ... Raleigh, N. C. Jus, Although they have been with us
Nov. 15 veceeeeveeee Univ. of NG ccc .. Winston-Salem, N. C. [only a year, they have become well-liked
Nov. 21 .. Presbyterian College of S.C................... Davidson, N. C. [and popular on the campus.

Nov. ence eee eeee .....Furman...... . Greenville, S. C. ‘Page 8 Col 2

CONFERENCE JUNE

13-22
