WATCH FOR

Volunteer
’ JSSUE

Virginia

TRIP
CANCELLED

SONIAN

Vol. VII.

FOR A'GREATER DAVIDSON

.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. FEBRUARY 12. 1920.

No. 19

Clemson Conquerors in
Classy Contest

Game Hard Fought and Fast--Teams
About Evenly Matched

The Wildcats failed to shake the
hoa-de in the game. with the Clem-
son Tigers, and went down in de-
icat by the score of 28 to 26. The
game, was clean and some’ streaks of
iast play were noticeable at certain
stages of the game, especially at the
beginning of the second half, when
Davidsen opened up with a terrific
offerisive.

Hall, for Davidson, drew first
blood by scoring a goal from the
side line by a spectacular overhead

shot. Clemson ‘camé back strong
however, when Colbert scored a

long shot. The play was slow after
the first hali, but Clemson shot most

all of its attempts, especially the.

long shots in which Davidson was
not able to make any progress. Time
after time long attempts would roll
out of the basket for Robert's, Many
technical fouls on both sides slowed
the play considerably and poor pass-
ing did likewise. Clemson by the
foresaid long shots enabled to draw
away from the Jucal quint and the
end of the first hatf found the Tigers
leading. 17 10 9.

The, Wildcats opened up the
second half with a whirpvind attack

and swon were only one point behind

Clemson. Then the offensive crack-
ed, and, the remainder of the half
was played in a see-saw fashion,
first one side and then the other
scoring. Clemson hit a stride a few
minutes before the final whistle and
completély shut down dn the David-
son quint, keeping the ball under the
Tigers goal nearly the whole time.

Schenck, for the victors, featured
and his shooting and flaor work was
the deciding factor in the Tiger
victory. For the losers, Hal) and
Roberts played good while. Rome-
félt at center fought hard in the
final period. The defensive forma-
tion used: by Clemson at the tip-off
completely broke up most of the Red
aml Black plays.

The score:

Clemson Position Davidson
Schenck (7) Forward Roberts (12)
Colbert (17) Forward Hall (10)
Boggs (2) Center Stricheck
Cole Guard  Remefelt (4)
Black (2) Guard (Chalmers

Substitutes: Shepherd for Rome-
felt, Romefeit for Striebeck. Ref-
eree: Long, Charlotte “¥." Time-
keeper: Douglas. Scorer: Schenck.

MR. JACKSON EFFICIENT
BUSINESS MAN AND
PROFESSOR.

Is a Great Asset in the College’s
Administrative Work.

Mr. Frank Lee Jackson, our college
Treasirer and Business Manager.
was born in 1882. He was prepared
for college at the Gastonia, N. C.,
High School. He entered Davidson

(Continued on page 6)

“FLU” CAUSES SMALL
’ DAVIDSONIAN THIS WEEK

Due to their being so much sipk-
ness on the Hill as weil as to the ab-
sence of many others The Davidson-
ian Staff and Reporters were in a
very depleted condition when this
issue went to press.
above circumstances: it has been
found necessary to reduce the size
of the paper to six pages this week.
The students. are asked to bear with
the Staff while handicapped in this
‘manner.

SIT STEADY,

In view of the.

Juniors Announce Sub-
jects of Hoped-for
Masterful Orations

Large Class Necessitates Five Sec-
tions-—Subjects Cover the Seen
and Unseen, the Known

and the Unknown

‘Tu every Junior class at Davidson
there comes only too quickly -the
biggest day they have had in ‘their
college career, and now the class of
‘21 stands upow the brink of this
long anticipated vet undesired occa-
sion. Even now the casual observer
has cause to notice the approaching
storm by, the mutterirg of some whe
are already fortunate cnough — to
have learned their speeches. QOcca:
sionally is also to be heard the sound
as of a thunder clap as these soon-
to-be oraters rise to the dizzy
heights of some sublime climax be-
fure an imaginary audience, while
practicing the orations which they
hope will bring everlasting fame to
their names.

The class which will soon be so
conspicuously placed before the eves
of the public ts the Jargest seen in
action in Shearer chapel, and for this
reason there will be five sections of
12 speakers each.

The speeches, if subjects indicate,
anything, will be varied and inter-
esting, as they cover the seen-and
the unseen, the known and the un-
known, the hearable and the ---well,
it is to be ‘trusted that they will all
at least be sufficiently interesting .to
‘hold the attention of the audience.
Come early and avoid he rush,

Below is given the list af speak
ers and their subjects:

First Section.

E. M. Alexander, West, Miss.. An
International Trademark.

N,V. Baba, Uramia, Persia. The
Tragedy of Tragedies.

. J. G. Barnette, Davidson, N. C..
The Value of Athletics.

E. A. Beaty, Lancaster. .S. G:,
Verba In Ventos: .

J. R. Boulware, Jr. Eu. Laketand.-
Fla. The Salesmanship of Chemis-
try.
C.G. Brown, Phi., Charlotte, N. C.,
The Young Man of Today...

C.K. Brown, Phi,, Cleveland, .N.
C.. The Success. of Defeat.

KH. Brawn, Cleveland, N. C., The
troh Mule,

J. S. Brown, Jr., Phi. Henderson-
ville, N.C... The Southern High-
lander.

‘S.A. Durgess, Kingston, S. C.,
What Davidson Needs.

W. W. Carter, Mount Airy, N. C..
America’s Part in International Re-
construction.

J. FE. Cassell, Christiansburg. Va..
Was It Worth While?

Second Section.

H. 8. Culbreth, Parkton, N. C..
The Inventive Genius of America.

W.P. Cumming, Eu., Toyohashi,
Japan, Yamato No Miria.

A. L. Currie, Jr.. Phi. Fayette-
ville, N. C.. The Task of Young
America. :

J. M. Dunlap, Phi.. Charlotte, N.
C., The Unfinished Volume.

D. S. Epps, Kingstree, S. C.. Com-
pulsory Military Training.

D. S. Forgey, Morristown, T-enn.,
Freedom of. the Seas.

D. R. Freeman, Phi., Charlotte. N.
C., The Fountain of Youth. ;

A. F. Fricker, Phi,, Charlotte, N.
C.. Industrial Democracy.

W. C. Gaither, Newton, N. C., Dili-
gence.

(Continued on page 5)

FELLOWS. There’s NO CAUSE FOR A ‘FLU’ PANIC

FJ

MISS LAVINIA BOYER .
Sponsor of the Recent Davidsonian Banquet

A
Davidsonian Banquet at Selwyn Hotel Elegant

On last Thursday evening at 73300 S. 4. Robinson, Ro Wo Miles. J.
ofclock at the Selwyn Hotel, Char- Cassell, Fob. \
lotte, S.C the management: and /Caskill, [.. GG. Calhoun, T. Spence, J.
stalt'of The Davidsonian gave their! Boneman, Dwight Chalmers, J.
annual banquet fer the vear 1919 [Gasten, Carl’ Long, L.
Under the management pf C.J. Mat-[ bh.
thews. business. manager, and with} Wilson, Hon, Tob. Kirkpatrick, R. .
the wid of the staff, one of ylie most| ML Miller, Jr. Jasper Hatto, Mrs.
deightful and successful ‘banquets; ME. ‘
ever given by a Davidsen College; Gray. Mr. and Mrs. J. 1. Mallard. cided to postpone Gass foothall on-

organization was staged and car
ried out in every detail./

At 7:30 sharp the young men as-
sembled at the door of thé banquet
hall and as each young lady appear-
ed she was accompanied hy her es-
cort around the table to their re-
spective places. Then after the
blessing the guests were. seated
around the table, which had been
decorated for the occasion with bas-
kets of roses connected by long
chains of smilax and favors consist-
ing of menus of the banquet and in-
dividual boxes of mints, carrying out
the Ked and Black color scheme
throughout. The table was arrang-
ed in the shape of the letter “T.”
afd the staff and their guests were
seated on either side of the long
table. while at.the smaller table the
tuastmaster, Mr. Miles, and the
other speakers of the evening were
seated. :

Mayor McNinch was prevented
from attending on account of ill-
ness, but a note of congratulation
was received from him. Mr. Askew
was also unable to be there on ac-
count of illness. Those present
were: .

A. L. Wilson, A. M. Mitchell. J
McD. Richards, Carl Matthews, J.
W. Witherspoon, Hugh A. Query,

« Staff and Invited Guests Present—Interesting Speeches Made—Wilson
Boulevard Promised

Flu Far From Epidemic
Stage---No Need

to Fear

Disease Present Only in Mild Form—-
No More New Cases

Like a thunderbolt out of a clear
sky came the flu epidemic upon Da-
vidson fast Monday. Within the 24
hours after the first case there were
12+ victims at the infirmary, and
within 48 hours the infirmary was
full and Louisiana dormitory was
turned inte an emergency ward.
Ferty men had reported and were
found to have Spanish influenza be
fore the course of the epidemic was
abated. It ceased almost as soon as
it had started, for since last Friday
only three new cases-hiave been re-
ported, The type of inflaienza here
has proven to be very mild. Only

and the convalescent ward in Rum-
ple ts already beginning to fll up
with, those who are well but need
careful attention. The following
students have been the victims:
Buchanan, W.S.: Davidson, RIF:
Forgey, Di; Gibson, A. V.> Wooten,
I. A. Morris, Z. Al; Lowry, Thos, ;
Hhunter, J. Eo: Horton, T. 1.0: Har
rell, Wo: Askew. S. Hi: Whitesides,
Jo: Warnock, Ko: Wright, FJ:
Sample, G.D.: Booth, J. PL; Rateh-
ford, W.oS.: Thompson, CC. A.:
Dantzler, M.O.: Bethea, 1. Co; Mor-
ris, HEL: PlemingsG. D.; Simmons,
CL. Dick, Ro L.; MeCrummen, J.:
Thompson, B. C.; Welkinson, 1. Fl:

L. Vo: Farmer, G. D.: Wallace, R.:
Richards, |. Ms: Brady. S. W.
— the convalescent ward are Cave-

Affaie "081: Ronson. We sat
Class Football Postponed
---Will be Played

Later

_—_—,

Bad Weather and “Flu” Epidemic

Jackson, J. ©. Me-

M. ; -_
Ik. Schenck, Cause Athletic Association to
Hill, f.. L. McAlister, ‘T. HL Reach This Decision |

_ Ata mecting of the Athletic Ase 1
Rover, Mr. and Mrs, A.M. ciation last. Monday night it was de-

Mrs. J. 1. Caldwell, Miss Bert account of the bad weather and the
Willeford, Miss Lavinia Hover, Miss “flu” epidemic. The games will be
Adelaide Caldwell, Miss Leilia played in the latter part of March
Marsh, Miss Elizabeth Bruns, Miss and the first of April, so that, the
Elizabeth Brown, Miss Eloise Dox- basketball men can play. Practice
ey, Miss Magurete Anderson, Miss’ will begin about two weeks before
Sallie Schenck, ind Miss Hannah the gamds, so as to make sure that
Alsover. the men are in good physical condi-
-Mr. Miles, being toastmaster, on tion. °
every occasion proved himself fully | The games will be conducted un-
capable and became an inspiration der the general supervision of Coach
to the speakers whom he intraduced. Hengeveld, but each team will also
Mr. Jackson was the first speaker have from its class some varsity
of the occasion and emphasized very man as its especial coach. (No Var-
forcefully the need of a college pa- sity or D.C. men are allowed to
per to a college and how The Da- play). Such football material as the
vidsonian of this vear had come so association has on hand will be dis-
near filling this need. tributed equally between. the classes
Mr. Cassell spoke on “The Need§ and balls will be provided. Class
of The Davidsonian,” and Matthews football will cost the individuals less
on “The Future of The Davidson- this vear than ever before.
ian.” After this Mr. Miller, presi- | Most emphatically, class football
dent of the Davidson Alummi Assu- is not being called off. 1t has been
ciation, spoke on “The Importance postponed several times in preceding
of The Davidsonian. to the Alumni,” vears as. there has always been a
and since he believed that the alumni good deal of dissatisfaction about
of a college was its greatest asset, the date. Indeed, the association is
he contended that The Davidsonian working on a plan to have the sched-
could be of greatest service to col- ule moved permanently, either to
lege as a connecting link between March or December. Hut there has
the alma mater and the alumni. always been some kind of class foot-
«Mr. Hutto made some valuable ball. Class football was played a
suggestions as to the betterment of great while before intercollegiate
(Continued on page 6) athletics were permitted.

one student is ina serious condition.

Johnson, V.D.; Graham, Ho: White.

In

