4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920,

ed into a ward for the patients and

Open Forum

Before Condemning the R. O. T. C.'
—Read This.

Pounded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Fellow M 3 of the ROTC

Can it be that some of us expect
to kill out the R. O. T. C. by destroy-
ing the pep and spirit, in fact, all
esprit de corps and discipline itself!
Stop and think!

Entered at the Fost Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

oseee.-Relitor-in-Chief

CASSEL aa Menaging Editor . The majority of us are in the same
sereeee-Agsignment Editor hole, We didn’t happen to enter as
BIL se eeeecsaceceseeeeseess Alumni Ealtor Juniors and consequently our Gov-
reer errr eee eee ee soveeees xchange Editor - ‘
desecncccseeseeesosecs cosessccccocese FOFUM Edi ernment calls upon us in a very

Ea
-Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A Editor
. ...,8ocilal Editor
. oe .Literary Editor
che ceeee «.-+-Official Photographer

slight way to do our bit—just one
hour each day—and take the place
of those who gave up everything for
the defense of vur blessed country
in the hour of her need. None of us
can see much reason for it, but it
would be absurd to think of Con-
gress authorizing such an extensive
branch of the service if there were
not a very real need for some form
of protection until peace has actually
been established and this worldwide
spirit of restlessness among all
classes. has been subdued—all self-
ish considerations put aside, who

PSP PAROS hase

REPORTERS’ CLUB

W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHBLL
B. BRBITENHIRT

. BOOKER D.
A.
B.
M. R, DOUBLES
w
J.
J.

BN

R. T. L. LISTON

R. R. CRAIG

. EB. NNINGHAM
°F . W. MOORE
M. RICHARDS

c. WOOL

. GILMER
PRICE
, SUMMERS

3. M.
J.P.
A.C

Additional reporters for this iseue are: Fricker, A. F.; King, A. D.; Smith, H. H.; David-

; ; ing, F. Eo; 1 ..G.; Smith, W. C.; Orden, D. could better give up part of their

son, R. F.; Davis, J. H.; Denny. S._H.; Manning, F. E.; Long, C. G.; Smith, W g Pp p
’ ' G. Ws Sander, C. B.; Gambic, W. W.; Baiicy, J. C.; Beatty, E. ‘A. : a Dp r
eo MATOHEWS..-.c-ccsee : : sec accceseeene Business Manager time for this purpose than the col

..Agaistant Manager lege student, who must have some
Circulation Manager form of regular exercise! Haven't
Asalatant | Mannger’ we enough confidence in the demo-
~ cratic principles of our Government
tu know it will not continue any
militaristic policy any longer than
conditions demand it!

This point clearly understhood,
and next a very distinctly patriotic
duty devolves upon us to support
our organization. Under “B

T. H. WILSON.........
L. L. McALISTER..
A. M. MITCHELL
C. H. LONG

EDITORIAL

The only effect of Friday the thirteenth seen at Davidson was the
recovery of two of the members of the faculty from an attack of in-

Buck
fluenza.

Lee’s Boy Scout” regime, with toy
guns and Y. M. C. A. imitation
khaki, who would have thought of
old Davidson’s ever having such
complete equipment for this training
as the R. O. T.C. has given us. Jus-
tice demands that we make good
use of this property.

From another viewpoint, looking
out for number one: who with sane
judgment would prefer “physical
torture” two years running, accord-
ing to the old custom? As for that
extra half-credit—we are thankful,
,even if we do have special instruc-
‘tions about maps, Bolsheviki and
other subjects along with it . -

Those of us who have put into
practice Coach Fetzer’s advice to get

For the benefit of those who are perpetually asleep we can say that
the Volunteer Band is not a military nor a musical organization.

It is hard to realize that Davidson has become the “Convention

City of the Carolinas.”

WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.

N these days when the world is clamoring for the ratifying of the
I League of Nations and the formation of “entangling alliances” the
political principles of the father of this country seem to have become
too old for modern times. More and more the 22nd of February passes
practically unnoticed. It is true that his political advice can not be ap-
plicable when the conditions of the world have so radically changed.
The heritage, however, which he left can still he remembered and profit-
ably put to use. all we can out of our class work,
The noble character of George Washington, his glorivus example of especially to “spot the professors”
indomitable spirit, this is his gift to future generations. Had he never on everything they emphasize and
been the commander-in-chief of the American forces, had he never been take careful notes on the important
resent in the constitutional convention, or had he never been the Pres- details, can, swear that it’s good
ident of the new Republic, he would still be great. Probably his place dope. Why not apply the same:
would not be first in the light of secular history, nor would he rank principle to military? We have to;
foremost as a military genius, but in the hearts and minds of those who take it, why not take an interest in

again Rumple served as a convales-
cent ward. Of course the fellows
rooming in these places are glad to
give up their rooms for the sick.
Wouldn’t it be much better though
if there was a nice, large, up-to-date
hospital erected on the Davidson
Campus. Interested.

ALL COLLEGES
URGED TO REGISTER
DELEGATES PROMPTLY

(Continued from page 1)
had you must act and act immedi-

ately.
Annual Conference
State Volunteer Union of N. C.
Davidson College, March 12-14, 1920
Please enroll
as a Delegate from
Class
Signed Declaration Card__________-
Preferred Roommate
Regular or [Extra Delegate
(Fill out and mail before March
Ist, to Box 12, Davidson, N. C.)

GLEE CLUB PREPARING
EXCELLENT PROGRAM
FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING

The concert to be given by the
Glee Club this spring at Junior
Speaking will be one of the best
which has been given in some time.
The program rendered will in one
respect be different from those given
in the past, in that it will be entirely
new ; new pieces are being practiced
and the management assures a
splendid program.

A trip of several days, possibly a
week, is being planned for the carly
part of March. The colleges in the
eastern part of the state will be the
ones most probably visited.

R. R. ANNOUNCEMENT.

An announcement of interest to
all prospective delegates from col-
leges in’ central North Carolina
comes from the Division Passenger
Agent’s office in Charlotte. It is
not possible at this time to make a
definite statement, but there are
plans tnder way to provide a
through car from Greensboro and
return.

If run, this car will leave Greens-
boro on No. 21 and come via States-
ville, Friday, March 11, returning
via Statesville and thence on No 22
back to Greensboro on Monday, 15.
Jecause these trains carry extra
equipment. from Greensboro to

(Continued from page 1)

the conference is over that they will
then work for new volunteers and
will get them. We do not want any
to sign the Declaration Card under
any emotional feeling whatsoever.
The need for workers is so great
that we cannot afford to have any
one join our ranks who is not abso-
lutely sure of him or herself. Of
course we never know what may
happen to us or how God may wis
to change our plans and we are
ready at all times to accept Elis de-
cision.

Third. About the program, The

regular conference will begin on
Friday evening after the trains
reach Davidson College bringing
most of the delegates. If enough
delegates are there, a prayer serv-
ice will be held in the late after-
noon. ‘The last session will be on
Sunday evening, and no one will be
expected to leave until after this
last night service. It is to bring the
conference to a fitting close, we
hope, and should therefore mean
much more than the other meetings.
We are going to have some of the
‘following things: Addresses by re-
turned missionaries, discussioas of
missionary activities among stt-
dents, discussions or talks on the
surrendered life or perhaps better
the surrender of life. Probably there
will be some addresses on certain
phases of missionary work in cer-
tain countries. There will be held
_one or two separate meetings for
‘volunteers only and volunteers will
be given a chance to give reasons
why they are volunteers. Oppor-
tunities will be given for students tu
ask questions regarding missionary
work. We shall probably have ad-
dresses on themes leading to a devi-
nite decision. Very probably there
-will be some excellent leaders who
can help us by giving ways and
means to secure new volunteers.

Fourth. Some of the speakers are
Miss May Fleming, Dr. J. Lonell
Murray, and representatives from
all the various denominational
boards. Dr. Shepard, the negro

missionary from Africa, has been in-

vited to the conference for one ad-
dress, but he has not yet accepted.
There will also be Y. W. C. A. and
Y. M.C. A. representatives.

Fifth. Above all else this con-
ference must be one of seriousness.
I mean by that, that those who come
will please remember that this is a

conference for work and serious
thinking. If any frivolous minded
people are expecting to attend, we

have a true, noble, upright character he would still be a man whose mem-! it and make the most of the situa- Raleigh no special car will be run: wisn to say now that we cannot af-

tion!
Military training must not be con-

o

ory would be forever cherished. , ; _
As we approach the anniversary of his birth let us not think of him

except as mentioned above.
As yet these plans have not been

ord to have them. We want those
_who realize that this is a serious

. . . . . . . . t i 5
then as a military genius or as a political leader, but consider him in the, tinued unnecessarily, but why club complcted, but the Southern officials business and are ready to consider

light of what he really was, in the life in which he enjoyed most, a life: it in the head from behind! Give. have expressed their desire to aid to It 48 such.

of loving service and endless toil for his God, his country, and his fellow: R. O. T. C. a fair chance until its
men. three-year contract expires, and
then if it has fulfilled its purpose,
give it an honorable discharge.
“Common Sense.”

A SECRETARY FOR NEXT YEAR.

When we consider the great work done by Mr. Miles in his year
spent at Davidson we wonder how in times previous the college has
racked along without a Y. M. C. A. leader. The necessity for_a secre-
tary was first impressd on the students during the S. A. T. C., and if D
we can find no other good to credit to it we can not say that it was,
entirely useless. An experiment and a temporary arrangement was |
made whereby the secretary could be retained for another year. The
students very generously agreed to pay a sum of three dollars per man |
for the support of the association, provided the balance could be raised
by outside subscriptions.

This arrangement was temporary and was decided upon in order
that it could be successfully proved to the college authorities and the thing is on the go, why should
Board of Trustees that a secretary was necessary. More than one Pavidson not have a modern, up-to-
thousand dollars was contributed by a few faithful friends of the insti-
tution. Besides about five hundred dollars which has yet to be raised present is only a modern dwelling
to cover the Y. M. C. A. budget the students contributed the balance. _and has no appearance of a place for
Although successful, the system used was in every way unsatisfactory ‘a sick fellow. At the most it can ac-
and for various reasons can not be attempted another year. The friends commodate no more than fifteen to
of the college and the students themselves receive too many outside twenty patients. Under normal con-
calls, to depend upon them to supply this need. . ditions this may suffice, but in this

Our plea therefore is for a change of policy. We claim that the day conditions do not remain nor-
usefulness of a religious leader on the campus has been sufficiently dem- mal,
onstrated to the Board to warrant their taking over the entire salary — The situation here during the first
of the secretary. The balance of the budget can be supplied by a slight influenza epidemic showed clearly
increase in the blanket fee and by the receipts from the moving picture | the need of a large, modern, up-to-
shows. Any money raised from the student body should be collected date hospital. At that time old
at the beginning of the term and should not have to be canvassed for Chambers, with its poor arrange-
by fellow students, to whom the task of collecting money is the most’ ments, served as a ward for the
loathsome thing in the world. sick. Rumple was the convalescent

No member of the student body or the faculty would even con- ward. Thus the sick boys were toa
sider our going a year without a secretary, and yet this is the thing we certain extent mixed with the well,
face unless the authorities of the college come to the rescue. We hope’ which was anything but a good idea.
therefore that those who are in a position of power and influence will’ Again this year the need of a large
begin to work and plan to the end that the budget of the college for the hospital has been shown. Tho the

ear 1920-21 will carry the full salary of a man that is necessary to the! number of cases of influenza this
ife and welfare of the student body, a Y. M.C. A. secretary. year has been very small, yet the

The Need of a Hospital.

Last fall, on Davidson College’
ay, it was brought clearly before’
our minds that Davidson was in need
of many things. Some of these
were, a new dormitory, laundry,
swimming pool and several other
buildings. Plans are now being
made to mect these demands.

During this period when every-

date hospital. The hospital here at:

the comfort and convenience of the
delegates inthis way.

Rev. Z. V. Roberson, 14, of Rock-
ingham, N. C., has been called to the
pastorate of the church at Mt. Airy.
This pastorate was made vacant by
the removal of Rev. T. C. Bales to
Portsmouth, Va.

James P. Cobb, '12, is president of
the Cobb-Glass Company, brokers,
Durham, N. C.

I

a WDC Pipe full of your

seasoning will do to make it
Ask any good dealer to show
pick yours.

WORLD'S LARGEST ma

F you would know real smoke contentment,

know what a real French briar is,

Won. DEMUTH & CO.. new YORK

Sixth. At all times the Student
Volunteer Convention at Des Moines
will be discussed by those who were
there.

If I can be of any
ever to any of you,
ime.

help whatso-
u, please call upon
Most sincerely yours,
Janie Klutz.
ee
W. C. Bailey, ex-’11, is assistant
cashier of the Bailey Bank, Clinton,

, if AOE
li
iit

iy

; just you smoke
favorite tobacco. Then you'll
and what the Demuth
in sweet and mellow.
variety of shapes, then

break
you a

KERS OF FINE PIPES
