THED

Vin

a i

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

No. 11

DAVIDSON ELEVEN DOWNS TARHEELS BY LONE TOUCHDOWN
MEMORABLE EXERCISES MARK CELEBRATION OF ARMISTICE DAY

Loyalty

to Country and College

Emphasized in Celebration of Nov. 11

Speakers Hold Attention of Students i ram
He me "R. 0. T. C. Parades in the Afternoon

Morning Pro

On Thursday, November 11, the faculty and students observed Da-
vidson College Day and Armistice Day in a combined program. The
morning program was given to addresses which breathed loyalty to col-

lege and to country.
held.

The spirit of the day was beautifully
set forth in the devotionals conducted
by the pastor of the College Church, Dr.
C. M. Richards, at the opening of the
morning exercises.

The chief speaker at the exercises held
in the morning was Mr. F. B. McDowell,
of Charlotte, N. C., who graduated with
the class of 1869. His stories of the old
days, and his flashes of wit were delight-
ful. Mr McDowell presented to the col-
lege a pair of snuffers and a heavy china
cup and saucer as relics of those other
days.

President A. L. (“Buck”) Currie, of
the student body, spoke of the progress
of Davidson in numbers and equipment
in the past few years, and pointed for-
ward to “greater things than these” in
the days ahead.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the faculty, read
a brief summary prepared by Miss Shaw
on the part Davidson men took in the
war. There were 364 officers and 725
enlisted men in the army and 223 men in
the Student Army Training Corps.

Prof. A. Currie read a paper in which
he presented three of the many desir-
able characteristics found in Davidson
College students: a thorough and pro-
found scholarship, an educated business
sagacity, and an unselfish devotion to
the welfare of others. He cited one
alumnus who exemplifies each of the
characteristics named.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the faculty,
read the honor roll of “Our Davidson
Dead” while all present stood. He then
paid a beautiful tribute to those of Da-
vidson’s men who went “not with pomp,
but quietly and yet with buoyant spirits
as they looked forward to having a part
in the struggle for righteousness.”

The Davidson College R. O. T. C. Band,
which had -enlivened the program fro
time to time, closed the exercises wit
“The Star-Spangled Banner” and the
college song, “O Davidson.”

The R. O. T. C. celebrated Armistice
Day with a parade, a review, and a pre-
sentation of Victory medals.

The four companies of the battalion
came upon the parade ground in regular
order with the exception of C Company.
This company by taking first honors last
year was on the extreme left of the bat-
talion. From this position it moved out
in front of the other companies, then
marched to the armory to receive the
flag, from which place it escorted the
emblem back and presented it to the
battalion.

After the various formalities of the
parade were gone through the adjutant
called out in front of the battalion the
24 men who were to receive Victory
medals. The medals were pinned on the
men by Captain Hearn, commandant of
the R. O. T. C,. who also received one.

The Victory medal is given to all ex-
service men who desire pne and there
“were a good many others in the college
and town who were eligible but did not
care to have them presented in so for-

(Continued on page 8)

In the afternoon interesting military exercises were

Davidson, Yesterda
: and Today

Article 1. Buildings

Davidson so years ago! How many
have any idea of what the campus of
Old Davidson looked like at that time?
The purpose of this article shall be to
set forth facts about the Davidson of
yesterday—the Davidson of 50 years ago
—and the Davidson of today; together
with certain material concerning the in-
tervening period giving pictures of
campus life, student rules and regula-
tions, student publications, and any oth-
er obtainable information which may be
interesting to a reader of today. It is
planned to run this article in The David-
sonian in installments. This, the first
installment, deals with the appearance
of the campus 40 years ago and that of
today.

Forty years is a long time. Look
forward in your mind to the far distant
time when you shall be 40 years old, and
think of all your hopes for the inter-
vening years; and then look backward
in your memory to the long-ago time
when you were in childhood. Then com-
bine these two stretches of time into
one long period of succeeding years ex-
tending backward into the dim past, and
you obtain a faint idea of how long it
has been since the year 1880.

In 1880 there were only eight buildings
on the campus. Chief among these was
Chambers. The old chapel stood where
Shearer Hall now stands. Steward’s
Hall stood approximately where the
Library is now situated. Just in front
of the Library today there is an old wall

hich is a remnant of Steward’s Hall.
Oak Row, Elm Row, the Eumenean Hall,
and the Philanthropic Society Hall were
standing then as they are today. The
only other building on the campus was a
dormitory called Tammany, which was
located just south of Elm Row. The
main part of our present beautiful cam-
pus was a cotton patch under the care
of the present Mr. Helper’s father.
Where the church is now situated was
then planted in cotton, the field reach-
ing clear up to Chambers, and there
were only a very few trees on the cam-
pus. The whole place was surrounded
by a high board fence—possibly to keep
the Freshmen from getting lost.

In 1901 Tammany was torn down and
the Martin chemical laboratory erected.
In 1902 the old chapel was remodeled
into Shearer Hall. Rumple was built in
1903 and Watts in 1906. In 1909 Stew-
ard’s Hall was torn down to make room
for our present splendid library build-
ing. Georgia was completed in 1909 and
the library in 1910. The gymnasium was
completed in 1917. .

Through all these years Chambers has
stood, a monument to the good old days

(Continued on page 8)

Debaters Selected to
Meet Randolph-Macon

Brown and McKeithen Awarded
Places by Judges

On the evening of Tuesday, November
9. the final elimination for the Davidson-
Randolph-Macon debate took place in
Phi Hall. The query read, “Resolved,
That the Federal Government should
prohibit the immigration of Japanese
laborers. into the United States or its
territory, for a period of twenty years.”

The four who had stood the test of the
first elimination were A. M. Mitchell and
R. Bitzer, of the Eumencan, and C.: K.
Brown and J. H. McKeithen, of the
Philanthropic. McKeithen and Bitzer
represented the affirmative, while Brown
and Mitchell defended the negative. The
debate, on the whole, was a fine speci-
men of collegiate argument and any
that the judges might have selected
cold surely uphold the honor of David-
son with credit, both to the college and
to themselves. The rebuttals were very
heated and this consequently added
much to the interest of the debate.

The judges of this forensic fray were
Dr. Sentelle, Professor Currie and Dr.
Shewmake. The debaters they finally de-
cided upon were Brown and McKeithen
as principals, with Mitchell as alternate.
These will be the men who will uphold
Davidson in the Davidson-Randolph-
Macon debate to take place in Shearer
Hall on the evening of December 7.

—_—_p_—_____
THE TRIP TO WINSTON.

Davidson Sends Three Hundred
Rooters to Support the Team.

Three hundred enthusiastic and opti-
mistic football fans hurried aboard the
“Davidson Special” last Saturday morn-
ing, as the train drew up in front of the
station. It was a happy, whistling
crowd, made all the more so by the ideal
football weather, just cool enough to
make everyone feel good with plenty of
Wildcat pep.

The train reached Winston about
noon. Everybody enjoyed the trip
through the country. The trees were
beautiful, dressed in their fall colors, as
if some artist had dipped his brush in
the rainbow and transferred its varied
colors to their foliage. The brown fields
dotted here and there with bits of cotton
lent a background to the picture. But
soon these trees and fields with occa-
sionally a creek or brook were left be-
hind and hurry on with the train to the
city and the gridiron.

At 2:30 the stands were already begin-
ning to fill. In one, the wearers of the
Red and Black gathered, while across
the way were the hearty supporters
from the home of the Tar Baby. The
Davidson band was there to lend itself
to the occasion with true Davidson pep.
Will anyone who saw it ever forget the
great game? How the Wildcats fought
and fought until the victory was theirs.
How the crowd rushed on the field yelt-
ing and dancing with excitement and
joy. The whistle blew and the crowd
started for home. Every son of old Da-
vidson was happy because they had seen
a clean, scrappy game, and the best team
had won.

But we were about to forget the snake
dance through the streets of Winston
at night. Songs and yells were given as
(Continued on page 5)

 ,

Red and Black Machine Wins
from Carolina in Hard-Fought Game

Wildcats Show Superiority Over Ancient Enemies—
Shepard Sprints 25 Yards for Winning Touchdown

The University of North Carolina’s Blue and White bowed before
Davidson’s Red and Black, for the first time in ten years, on Prince Al-
bert field, Winston-Salem, last Saturday afternoon.

Dr. Metcalf Heard With
Pleasure at Davidson

Instructive Lectures Delivered by
Prominent Professor of English

Sunday Evening.

Dr. John Calvin Metcalf, of the De-
partment of English at the University
of Virginia, gave an address before the
students and townspeople on last Sun-
day night on the subject, “The Lessons
of the Parables.”

“The freshness of Christ’s parables
must have captured his hearers,” said
Dr. Metcalf, “as they dealt with the is-
sues of life and lifted them up to higher
planes of thinking.” Jesus did not talk
down to people, but always lifted them
up—some of his audience may have held
beliefs different from His, but He al-
ways held their attention. The keynote
words running through all the parables
are Love, Faith and Service. Each par-
able has one great central idea, and
practically everyone tells of the King-
dom of Heaven and how to get there.

Dr. Metcalf, speaking from a life of
rich experience and study, says that the
literature of the Bible is unsurpassed,
and that the best short stories to be
found anywhere are the parables of the
New Testament. The parable of “The
Lost Son,” containing only 500 words,
shorter than most of our short stories,
is neverthless a story of the highest
type, and its definiteness and form are
unexcelled. The parable is classified as
an anecdote told by a speaker to a group
which clarified points at issue to the
open-minded and conceals certain things
from others. According to a very apt
definition given by a child, a parable is
“an earthly story with a heavenly mean-
ing.” °

Considering next the kinds of parables
Dr. Metcalf made five main divisions.
His first division was those telling of
growth; second, those contrasting a per-
son or set with another person or set;
third, those showing individual vices and
virtues; fourth, those dealing with social
fellowship, and his last group was those
informing us of discipline and judgment.

Formalism, one of the most danger-
ous of all diseases to things of a relig-
ious, political or educational nature, was
causing the minds and hearts of his
hearers much distress, and the parables
were very efficacious in overcoming the
bad effects of this evil.

Many of these parables are statements
of great truths in a nut-shell—truth pre-
sented in a pictorial manner. Jesus Christ
was the most original teacher the world
has ever known, and was the author and
perfecter of the parable. The great
Master of Life was also a master of
literature, and these terse stories of His
appeal to us not only for their intrinsic
beauty as stories, but also as interpreta-
tions of the mind of our Savior.

(Continued on page 5)

They |*

Three thousand spectators witnessed
a game which gave the appearance of
ending in a scoreless tie, unt the
fourth period, when “Gig” Shepherd ran
25 yards around left end for a touch-
down, thereby winning the lasting honor
and praise not only of his fellow stu-
dents, but also of hundreds of local
friends and Davidson supporters who
absolutely over-ran the field in their
joyful celebration.

Carolina at once showed that she in-
tended to play a defensive game when
on receiving the ball in her territory for
the first time she punted back to Da-
vidson territory. From this first play
Carolina took no chances, but always re-
sorted to punting on the second or third
down, seemingly being afraid to risk
the Wildcats in her territory for any
length of time.

Davidson kicked off to Carolina from
the west end of the field. This quarter
was featured mostly by long and con-
tinuous 45-yard punts by Lowe, of Caro-
lina. Davidson on receiving the ball
tan Moore, Cassell and Poe for short
gains around end, and when they failed
to make first downs fell back on Shep-
herd’s 35-yard punts to place the ball in
Carolina's territory.

In the second quarter.

Carolina resorted to forward passes
and succeeded in getting the ball on the
20-yard line, where Lowe failed in at-
tempting a drop kick, the pigskin going
several feet to the left of the bar.

Neither Davidson nor Carolina were
able to gain any ground through the
line, both lines holding fast at all times.

The third period was probably fea-
tured by small gains for the Blue and
White through forward passes and kick-
ing, and for the Red and Black by
sweeping end runs.

In the fourth period, after Shepherd
had kicked 35 yards into Carolina's ter-
titory, Carolina’s attempted forward
pass was intercepted by Poe, who ad-
vanced the ball to the 25-yard line. On
the next play Shepherd, sweeping around
left end, ran 25 yards for a touchdown,
stiff-arming several of his opponents.

(Continued on page 2)

¢
*
*
* Thursday—3:o0 p. m., Scrubs vs. N.
*  C. State at Pinehurst.

* 8:00 p. m., Wildcats leave for Clin-
* ton, S.C.

* Friday—3:00 p. m., D. C. vs. P. C.

* x. @ * «@ * * * e e

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

* 6:45 p. m., Davidson Reporters’
* Club meeting.

* 8:00 p. m., Basketball, Seniors vs.
* Fresh.

* Saturday—6 :45 p. m., Senior Literary
* Societies.

* 7:30 and 8:30 p. m., Movies: “Male
* and Female.”

*

Sunday—10:00 a. m., Bible Classes.
6:15 p. m., “Y" Service.
* Monday—6:45 p. m., Junior Literary

Societies.
* ee

*
¢+eeeeseeeewmeeaeeene eae

s ese ¢h 6h

WE ARE PROUD OF YOU, WILDCATS
