LIFE INSURANCE--
A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School
\ for Agents ond muliiple line of insurance provides the

equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship

Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.
Christian Activities) 2=s7sis7sa&

place for the child. There is very little

danger in this though, for fast horses

and motor vehicles are practically un-

known. The Chinese are molded and

-CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR shown by the leaders, was very instruc-| ommended by Confucius holds sway so
SENDS REPRESENTATIVES tive. That evening after a delightful! extensively today. ;

TO COUNTY INSTITUTE | supper and social hour at the Church, the} In order that more present might un-

evening program was enjoyed. There|/derstand the work of the medical mis-

were two numbers on the program. First | sionary, Dr. McFadyen gave an outline Write to the
Bee Oe iedson enjoyed a moter trip | va? town a set of stereoptican slides | of the daily routine in one of the hos'| ¢ SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
orers of Davidso: on orld-Wide risti +|pitals. In the mornings a short c’ :
to Charlotte last Sunday. The reason| which served to stimulate the interest service is held for the regular patients. HOME OFPICE--GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

for such an event was the holding of the|of the Endeavorers in, not only thelin this way many hear the Gospel for | *S*eeeeeeececcocccscccccccocscooescescccsnccoosccoocccsacsosocceesscooosoososesccess

Christian Endeavor Institute at the | strengthening of their own societies, but|the first time. Next the various wards
Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church of ‘the spreading of the movement over the/are visited, after which comes the oper-
Charlotte. entire world. The second number was|ating hour. The majority of these are

This series of meetings was conducted |an address by Mr. Gates on “Service as|minor operations. The Chinese, like
by Mr. E. P. Gates, of Boston, General |a Doorway to Opportunity.” many other people are not naturally

q
‘

PIEDMONT THEATRE

Secretary of the United Society of Chris-| Next Sunday afternoon the Endeav-| grateful yet. N

tian Endeavor, and Mr. Chas. F. Evans,]orers are to have a missionary presenta- —__——. _—____

Southern States Secretary of the same|tion. Mr. W. M. Cumming, of Wilming-|“REHIND THE DOOR” e e e
organization. The institute included|ton, father of “Bill” Cumming of the HERE THURSDAY NIGHT High Class Moving Pp ictures

cenferences on the methods of organ-|class of 1918, through his interest in
izing and rebuilding Christian Endeavor | Christian Endeavor and in missions, has
Societies and also inspirational ad-| given the local society fifty dollars to be
dresses, Sunday afternoon a conference] given for equipment in one of the seven
on Junior and Intermediate work was|countries in which the Southern Pres-
held. The methods of work that could _byterian Church does mission work. The
be developed in these departments, as claims of these countries will be pre-
sented by séven Endeavorers, using a
touch of costume. Christian Endeavor

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY president, Frank Toney. will preside as

. Uncle Sam. The society will then vote
Full Line of Pennants on which country is to get the fifty dol-

W. Ss. HENDERSON, Jewerer lars. The college students and the

townspeople are cordially invited to be

The men screamed with horrow. For
behind the door they saw something that
robbed them of speech, a nameless ter-
ror that chilled their blood.

What was it? Well, that would be
telling. It’s all in the picture. “Behind
the Door” is the title. Maybe you read
it in Collier’s Weekly. Gouverneur Mor-
ris wrote it. If you did, you'll admit that
it was some story. Strong, dramatic, un-
usual, exciting.

Thomas H. Ince has produced it as a
Paramount-Artcraft Picture with Hobart

Charlotte, N. C.

etecescocoosoocooooososoecooosoos:

SoooooseooooooocorconsqooosooooooooooeooosoooSDoooeoosOoneoCoeRONSoOeNOOseSeOOe]let

A Perfect Home Piano

Our ‘‘Factory-to-Home

Davidson, N. C. present. Bosworth starring. Bosworth of “The|- Plan” offers very attract-
. —_—_D———_ Sea Wolf” and other masterful pictures. ° Ty
SERS FORMER DAVIDSON FOOT- “Behind the Door” is a story of the sea. Ive terms. Catalog on
LI A ‘ BALL STAR SPEAKS TO “Y” | Bosworth is the captain of the ship.
FORTS (3 It will keep you on the edge of your request
Dr. A. A. McFad: Missionary to} scat during the entire showing. And

A.G.Spalding & Bros. > y China, Brings Decuant of Work. you'll be as surprised as anyone at the|- Tuning Repairing Moving
carry acompletelineof *i;n amazing finish.
the season’s athletic paraphernalia. They are almost invariably touched by} Irvin Willat, who directed that thriller i
‘When using an implement bearing the their treatment in Christian hospitals|of thrillers, “The Grim Game,” directed CHAS. M. STIEFF e Inc. :
Spalding trade mark, you cannot question and seem to be ready always while in|“Behind the Door.” In the cast are Jane ESTABLISHED 18¢2

roan, a doe aie win, with the hospital to hear of Jesus.

guarantee of quality and _ satisfaction. The medical work offers a great op-
Catalogue mailed free on request. portunity for Christians to lead souls to
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.| | Christ.
. TEE COMMISSARY Almost unlimited opportunities for
service fall to the lot of the foreign mis-
sionary, and this’ work should be se-
riously considered by every Christian
young man and woman today. None are
too good for the work, for problems of
sufficient difficulty to test the ablest
intellect will be met with; none are too
, bad, for the transforming grace of Jesus

Novak, Wallace Beery, Jomes Gordon,
Dick Wain, and other Ince favorites.
It’s a big picture; one you don’t want
to miss at the gym Thursday night.
—_—___

M. D. MANNING, Manager
218 S. Tryon Street . . . . Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE |

ROBERT E. MELL, :
OF ROCK HILL, S. C., TO BE
HERE NEXT SUNDAY

The student who fails to be present at
the “Y” Vesper services Sunday night
will miss a treat. After several attempts
Mr. Robert E. Mell, Community Y. M. C.

Have those qld shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY

We Want Your Acconnt Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

for daily needs; and for those who fight
the good fight there is waitjug a crown
of righteousness.

quite certain, for Mr. Mell is a believer
in the strong, virile type of Christian
manhood, and what this means to any
young college man looking out upon the
unknown trials and temptations of his
future life.

The great work that the coming speak-
er is doing in Rock Hill among the boys
of that town speaks better than words
that Mr. Mell is not just a talker, but a
Inve, wide-awake Christian who makes
things hustle. It is impossible for one
to be in his presence without catching
some of his overflowing enthusiasm that
is so essential to a successful Christian
worker,

Mr. Mell is a graduate of Georgia
Tech and during his‘stay at that institu-
tion served an apprenticeship on the
Golden Tornado as a member of the
scrub team. The fact that he could
stand the awful pounding of that
famous machine and still come out of
the fray alive is evidence that he has got
that quality that goes to make the col-
lege man’s ideal of a good sport. .

The speaker will be remembered by
many of the present student body as the
song leader in the Fall Evangelistic serv-
ices of last Fall, and his part in the
singing Sunday night will be an added
feature to the service.

Anyone who wants to hear and get
something worth while for nothing can-
not afford to miss Mr. Mell.

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER A $1,000,000.00

Local agent
23 Watts

jChrist can make any willing person a|A Secretary of Rock Hill, S. C., has been ol Charlotte, N.C. :

power for righteousness; nor should the | secured to make an address to the Dav- ‘

har’ ° . ; wg cas . . R. A. DUNN. President ~T. . <
Charlotte, N. C hardships of the task be prohibitive, for|idson students. That he will have a D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President AW, STEWART eaat Cashier :
God in heaven will furnish the strength | forceful and direct message to impart is C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier $

5

a

a

D. W. ROBERTS

——

—__p—___..

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, a medical mis-
sionary to China, spoke before the Y. M.
C. A. Sunday evening concerning sev-
eral phases of the work in which he is
now engaged.

After reading from the Bible a short
description of the New Jerusalem, he
showed how this appealed to the Chinese
mind. It is a very common thing in
Oriental countries to see the little child-
ren playing in the streets, for the houses
are dark, and the work of the women
must be done in the narrow court-yards,
hence the street is practically the only

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President
The folloming departments are cepresented: The
College. ‘The ‘Depertment of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law. The Department of
Medicine. Tho Department of Engineering. The
Depertment of Education. The Summer Session.
Free tuition to Virginia etudente in the Academic
Departments. Loan funds evailable. All other
expenses reduced to a minimum.
For catalogue or information concerning the Uni-
ity of Virginia,
verey hee OO ORE REGISTRAR.

Ss. & W. CAFETERIA

Good Food Served Quickly
at Very Moderate Prices

20 West Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

peeerenne t ppeersenenete: peeeaeerenaeeraeeest }

eae et easee ee oe bene te hem:

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”

Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Per-
manent Disability, Old Age, Death.

Any disability one day or more---no limit. Full death benefits in
addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.

G. W. PATTERSON, Gea’l Agt.

Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company

1016 -15 Realty Bidg., Charlette, N.C.
Openings for Live men as agents

Mr. Snapshot Say: KODAK DEVELOPING

- For College Students Is Our Specialty on
Lightning, service makes distance .
prints represent the like rapid Pp ot cores ert. No extra chorge for. Bloeey Snish.

GOODHART-TOMPKINS CoO., - - Atlanta, Georgia |

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas

and Victor Records RIP PLANE aes a fs mR wa
‘We send records on approval. Write for special service plan FOR GLEE CLUB Equitable Life As ce Society of the U.S.

The Glee Club has settled down to
hard work in order to prepare for the
trip which it is to make about the first
of February. Very few of the dates
have been definitely set as yet, but the
manager states that programs will prob-
ably be given at Rock Hill, Spartanburg,
and Greenville of South Carolina, and at
Atlanta and Gainesville of Georgia. The
trip will cover a period of a week or
ten days. The large number of fifty or
sixty who first responded have been cut
down to thirty and it will be no small}
job to pick the best twenty from these
to make the trip.

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,

Sells all kinde of life insurance policies at lowest rates.
Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses
make the protection complete.

Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto.

Every young man should have a life insurance policy.
Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy.

How much have you got?
W. J. RODDY AA co., t Managers J.P. QUARLES, Manager

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents
only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements.
He is also a Public Notary and at your ,
— , service. a

