4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
30 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

6 H. ASKBW..........-..- ceeeeeeeeceencncescnsaeeeeescesceseeseeseeeenees Editor-in-Chief
J. EB. CABSBLL.......ccccecresecsccceves Oboe cece cenecececccccccceesceces Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARD, Jr......... oo eececenssccccccesscoccccsecserccesccsss Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK...... eerrr ere rere re rere rere rere

J. C. MeCASKILL........-- Oo eee reeeereesences were e ees cctcecnncsccees ooeoe- Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMBRS..........cceccsees pe ceeccccseccsceccccscoccscssekxchange Editor
EL A. HILL,.... ccc ccc cecececccecconce seeccecccercsccccccsesccccscccescsesKorum Editor
T. H. BSPENCD.........-cccccccceccevevccsccsccerecccerecsecocecssscecesse CBMpUS Editor

L. G. CALHOUN...... seoccoseeds M, C. A. Edltor

A. L. -WILSON.......
J, M. GABTON. Jr......sesssee . . ccceceseeseesitorary Editor
R. R. MOILWAIND.....-ccccccccscsccccccccccccccccccscsesceceseses Olticial Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D. L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BRBDITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

W. W. MOORB

J. M. RICHARDS

J. Cc. WOOL

WwW. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

BE. N. BOOKER

R. T. L. LISTON

R. R. CRAIG

Cc. B, CUNNINGHAM
J. M, GILMER

J. P. PRICE

Additional Reporters for this issue are: Ormand, A. I'.; Wildeman, C. F.; Gamble, W. A.;
McQuire, E. H.; Denny, S. H.; King, A. D.; Long, C. G.; Calhoun, M. P.; Thames, F. C.; Booth,

Jj. P.

Cc. J, MATTHDWS..... tee eeeeeecceenccsccoes dea eeeerovecececones oeeees- Business Manager

T. H. WILSON..... POOTSTTTETITISTTILISITETITITISTTTTET TTS eee Ter ere ee Assistant Manager
SPOTeSITETerrieeyT Terres ee sae decccccoccesccsceces Circulation Manager

Me MOIOn BLS citi iiictsittesssssessessecsfsemae Managers

| EDITORIAL

Take any man’s advice. Sometimes it is all he has to give and you

don’t have to use it.

It wouldn’t help the college much to have it published that a maga-
zine couldn’t be kept more than 15 minutes in the “Y” room, and yet
it’s so.

We hope that the man who swipes the lights will be the first to
break his neck in the dark.

If the basketball season gets rougher as it grows older the Colonel
had better turn his K. O. T. C. into an ambulance corps.

TAKING STOCK.

o& VERY prosperous and progressive business house in the country
A sets aside a certain part of each year for the taking of their an-
nual inventory. At this time they take an accurate account of
what they have in stock and compare it with their records of the pre-
vious year to determine their gain or loss during the fiscal year. Lach
account is carefully gone over and studied to find where the profits
were made and how the losses could be lessened or avoided.
If this system has proven not only profitable but necessary in the
commercial world we can also apply it with advantage in our individ-
ual life. Consider what you were worth last year, how much your out-

put was during the period and see if you are a better or a worse man| |

today. How valuable were you to the world in January, 1919, and what
can you do today? Has your education helped you, has your advance-
ment in age and experience increased your usefulness, in short, has your
progress been steadily toward your goal or has it left you further re-
moved from the realization of your ambitions?

These questions should be fairly and squarely answered. If your
advance has been satisfactory then start with a renewed vigor toward
the next mile-post. If you find that your losses outweighed your
gains, that your disbursements exceed your receipts, then begin to study
the reason why. You would think little of a merchant who saw he
was losing moncy and made no effort to correct the deficiency. You
would respect still less the man who saw clearly he was wasting time
and made no change in his plans. Take your inventory now and outline
a progressive and prosperous policy for the next fiscal period.

OLD DAVIDSON.

Time and time again you have heard an alumnus address a student
organization and tell of the things he did while at “Old Davidson.”
In publications the one epithet which is invariably used when making
reference to the college is the same, “Old Davidson.” 1t seems that
the only term of endearment that one can use in an effort to praise is
“old.” Yes, we are old, our customs and traditions are old, our build-
ings are also somewhat antiquated, but our spirit indeed has not reach-
ed a feeble old age.

We do not take offense at being called old, we are proud of the
long and useful life which the college has led. We do not, however,
wish to take on all which the term might imply. The spirit which
pervades the various activities of the college is an enterprising and pro-
gressive spirit working constantly for a bigger and better Davidson.
The value of some of the old customs and traditions has been proven
and they must be retained. But, to be satisfied with these would re-
sult in stagnation.

The share which we hope to get from the campaign now in ptog-
ress will bring new buildings and some new equipment into the col-
lege. The student body can be made as large as accommodations will
permit. Everything points toward bigger and better things, for we are
working not to abolish the “Old Davidson” but to keep “Old Davidson”
forever new.

Social Editor’

| went !

; And some of them chanced to be

-And when yur trying awful hard
|Some great big task to do,
You'll allus win the vict’ry,

Ef yu play the hull game through.

 EXCHPNGE

Free Verse on Big Eye and Little
Ewe.

Way back in days of old, for there

i Read the College Exchanges in the Library are no such
Creatures now-a-days, there was a
SONGS MERRY AND SAD. creature by the name
Gs |Of Big Eye. Little did he care for

i:His companion Little Ewe. There
was always something
That Big Eye had done but
With the strangers we meet and, Never was there a word spoken
the friends we greet | About Little Ewe.
How seldom we think that the sad-| Maybe Little Ewe had never had the
dest of days Chance to do the wonderful deeds
May encompass some soul whom| With which Big Eye had credited

we hail on the street, himself ; ;
Maybe he was not quite so

Wonderful as his great companion

Big Eye.

Whenever Big Eye began to tell

Of his wonderful exploits, all sat
around

And gazed in wonder at such

A great fellow, bit soon the air

Became so stifling with the

Hot air of Egotism that

Poor Little Ewe and the rest of the

Hearers had to abandon the

Boaster and

Return to the memories of their

Own unspoken deeds.

Far be it from us to place

A single stone in the

Advance of such a mighty man

As Eye, but let us one and all carry

Ourselves to the company of

Little Ewe, who will not say,

“fF did it all, listen ye,” but

Who with an arm of fellowship
about us

Say, “We did our duty, that is
enough.”

The Other Man's Hat.
In the hurry and bustle of life’s busy
ways,

Tho faces are cheerful and hand-
clasps are strong,

And smiles are so ready—there’s
nothing in that.

How little we know, as we’re pass-

ing along,

Of what’s going on ‘neath the

other man’s hat.

Our trials and griefs are so hard to
be borne,
Our worries are constantly drag-
ging us down; .
There are none who can possibly be
so forlorn;
Yet we mask with a smile when
we should wear a frown.

We envy our fellows so free from
all care,
They haven’t a trial, we’re sure
about that.
Perhaps we'd go crazy if we had to
bear
The trouble that lies ‘neath the
other man’s hat.

He asked her for a kiss—
She gave her permission.
When it went to press
It was quite an edition.

“Lives of Seniors all remind us,
We can make our lives ‘sublime,

And by asking foolish questions,
Take up recitation time.”

The Questioner.

| cannot read the old poems,
They’re parodied too well;

I fear those tomes once cherished
May soon no longer sell,

You spare not Keats nor Shelley,
Nor Browning’s cryptic rime ;

1 cannot read the old poems;
L hope | may some time.

I called the boy to my knee one day,
And 1 said: “You're just past
four,
Will you laugh in that same light-
hearted way
When you’re turned,
thirty more?”
Then | thought of a past 1’d fain
efase —
More clouded skies than blue—
And [| anxiously peered in his up-
turned face
For it seemed to say:
“Did you?”

say some

The Letters 1 Have Not Sent.

| have written them, keen and sar-
castic and long, ,
With righteously wrathful intent
Not a stroke undeserved or a cen-
sure too strong; °
And some, alas, some of them, I touched my lips to his tiny own
And I said to the boy: “Heigh ho!
Those lips are as sweet as the hay
_ new-mown;
Will you always keep them so?”
Then back from those years came a
takish song—
With a ribald jest or two—
And I gazed at the child who knew
. no wrong,
And 1 thought he asked:
“Did you?”

have written them, challenging,
eager to fight,
All hot with a merited ire;

kept overnight,
And mailed, the next day, in the
fire!

Ah, blessed the letters that happily
go
On errands of kindliness bent
But much of my peace and my for-
tune I owe
To the Ietters I never have sent.

More Truth Than Poetry.

I looked in his eyes, big brown, and
‘clear
And I cried, “Oh boy of mine,

Here’s to the fellow who kisses his
girl,
And kisses his girl alone;
For many a man is kissing another
man’s girl
When he thinks he is kissing his

own. =

Hank’s Philosophy.
I ain’t no college gradjiate, =
I hain’t got a degree; =
I never went to school enuf =

To larn my A-B-C.

I ain’t strong on book-larning.

There’s lots that I don’t know,

But I know that him whut’se would
succeed

Must stick tight to his row.

La

briar bowl break in

Yer row won’t be chopped clean o’
weeds ‘

Ef you stop to chase horn-toads;

You'll never do the big things,

Ef yu slight th’ little loads.

We.,DEMUTH

Mek men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking,
There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and
economy in a good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and
more, A special seasoning process makes the genuine French

sweet and mellow.
at your nearest dealer's, at your price,

&:CO..NEW YORK
WORLD's LARGEestTtmakers 7

lwin you keep them true in the af-
teryear? ;
Will you leave no heart to pine?”
Then out of the past come another’s
eyes—
Sad eyes of tear-dimmed blue—
Did he know they were not his
mother’s eyes?
’ For he answered me:
“Did you?”

Open Forum

A Plea for Boarding
House Mistresses

The night before Davidson Col-
i\lege Day someone at one of the
boarding houses asked the waiter
jat what time breakfast would be
| Served the next day. -Before he
could answer, shouts of “9:00, 9:00”
arose from the group of students
seated around the table. As a mat-
ter of fact breakfast was served at
the usual hour the next morning,
but this just shows the utter disre-
gard which is shown at the boarding
houses, for the convenience of the
boarding house mistresses.

The students also show great
thoughtlessness in the matter of
Sunday breakfast. The time for
Sunday breakfast is 8:30 o'clock,
but the boys that go to this meal
often do not get there till 9:00
o’clock or even later, thus making
this meal the most troublesome of
the week, when it should be the
easiest, as there are not many there.
This tardy way of doing makes it
very difficult to get the dinner ready
by 12 o'clock.

Think it over, schoolmates and
friends, and see if you can’t be a
little more considerate of the hard-
working women who are doing so
much for you.

CAPTAIN CHALMERS

(Continued from page 1)
player a hard tussle for guard. Last
year his faithful work was rewarded
by a place on the Varsity and his
first “D.” This year he was select-
ed to lead the Wildcats, and the
prospects are that this skillful play-
er will be the leader of a most suc-
cessful team.

In addition to being captain of
the basketball team he is president
of the College Y. M. C. Chal-
mers is a congenial, friendly chap,
and there is not a fellow on the cam-
pus who has not a warm spot in his
heart for Dwight.

As a brilliant student, debater and
basketball player he has made a
name that will not soon be forgot.

FLOWERS

‘Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.

| Flowers for all occasions at pop-
ular prices.

Orders taken for delivery in any
city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

Pick a good shape

OrFZPINE PIPES
