4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF "15 ;
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” ; | MATTERS OF REGRET.

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
eee eee
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Win or lose, the old pep for which
Davidson is so famous is always in
evidence. Those who were afraid
‘that the college was losing some of |
__ er iits old spirit should have heen with
i icati in the hands of the Managing Editor before the student body when they wel-

All Articles for Publicetion mived from an unknown source will not be published. 'comed the team hack from the Tech |

t

——= — ST ____Bditorein-Chief | 22™¢- and they pushed them on to
J. E, CASSELL .__------------------------n on orem nnn Managing Editor | Victory in the Wake Forest game
J. M. RICHARDS. -—-------------------—--------"Aiglant Managing Editor |last Saturday. Just let that person|
J.P. PRICE.....~------------=- nnn enna n anne nen nee enn nn nnn nnn Assignment Editor once hear the band start playin

M. R. DOUBLES.......-.--------------------------------20 220220" Athletic Editor '“Oid Davidson” and see that bunc

CJ: corcseee ~~ Een Editor lof five hunder men rise as one man
}: R BOULWARE nor *Forum Editor and with uncovered heads sing that
1. A DUNLAP auvavenecreweeeen --Campus Editor song that is so dear to the heart:
D. W. ROBERTS..-.--------------------------- -Y. M.C. A. Editor 'of every Davidson man, and he will
H. A. HILL...---_---------------------2----27-----" 77000 Editor ‘forget that he doubted that the PEP,
JM; GASTON, PR isnnvvanveneenoveorooo ficial Photographer “Was gone from the bunch of David-

son men.

And yet there were two things at
the game Saturday that those who
hold the interests of the college

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H.

BITZER, R. LONG, C. G. OGDEN, D. H. nearest to hear were sorry to see.
COOPER, W. J. MAHOOD. DL ORMAND, A. C. The first one was done by those
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E. MITCHELL, A.M. SUMMERS, A. C. who hadn't been here long enough

PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C. to know that. what they were do-
ing is tabooed by a Davidson crowd,

and that was yelling when the op-

DAVIDSON, R. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

C. J. MATTHEWS....-----------+----- ++ s-2recne rene cn necro Business Manager ponets were penalized, and that
. NASH . grumbling and howling at the
1's CURRY } oa reenn ace neanonenneenanennnnnnnsernnonenes Assistant Managers (ocision of the referce. Davidson
: —_——_— has always been noted for the fair
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: . and gentlemanly way in which they

C. H. LONG Jawan anne nnn nnn nena mewn nnn ene n nn nee nnn nnnnen cen ans Circulation Manager |treated their opponents and the way
IG wo Craironize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. in which they accepted the decision

of the referee. You Fresh, who for-
got this last Saturday, cut it out,
don’t forget.

The other thing was something
far more serious, it was the lan-
guage used in one of the yells. Now
to some this may seem a very small
thing, but to those who will think a
moment it will present a more se-
rious phase. The yell referred to
was the one in which 15 was given
to “the whole team.” Now in
some colleges and universities this
is looked for and expected, but it!
came as a shock to-hear a bunch of:
Davidson men give such a yell. It

h 5 wit hein ns ‘lar i unable {0 doesn't do a bit of good and a lot
make a first down, we held them to two with their regular line-up. On- of harm. [t doesn’t make a man

der such circumstances the comparison puts Davidson and Washington! ¢.¢] any better to be called a
& Lee on a par. fellow, if it does, something — is
(wrong with him. And it doesn’t
You are expected to be a gentleman on this campus just as much as make you feel that you are back-
HAS SHE AWAKENED? laws who hollered the words of
that yell, think it over and sec if
T ious day for the wearers of the Red and Black | YO" don't think it would do the col-
ATURDAY was a glorious day mac lege a lot of good and avoid a lot
Tr i , . i a Py 4
they were there. It has long been a matter of conjecture with us just | hat hae the only time that is has
why it was that Charlotte’s neighboring institution could never get the on the cars of many * vho heard it a
i ats y towns exhibit toward colleges located nea ca: any are ues
cordial welcome that so many te R cated neat iets think it over and cut it out,
a new spirit will from now on exist between the citizens of Charlotte : : he
and the students of this school. Although after the game the students Oe tning that will make a]
gathered in the heart of the business section of the cities to stage a § record. oO
demonstration for the hard fought victory, thereby holding up traffic
rollicking, high spirited schools boys in their town.
The Charlotte Athletic Association is in a large measure responsible
for this good will, as it is their avowed purpose from henceforth to sec
that Davidson comes into her own in the Queen City. There is no rea-
bright for better and closer relationship between those concerned. May
the Charlotte Association maintain the start it has made, and they can
rest assured that anything done for Davidson will not be lacking in ap-
preciation from her student body.

EDITORIAL

Once more the Red and Black took possession of the Queen City,’
and made it quite plain to the people of that good town that we have’
the proper school spirit.

Do not be just a “drifter” upon the sea of life. Set for yourself a
definite port, not letting the fickle winds of ease and comfort change:

your course.

No doubt the result of the Wake Forest game Saturday will make:
Coach Rafferty, of Washington & Lee, retract what he said about the:
quality of the Wildcats as compared with the Generals. While in the |
W. & L. game, on account of substitutes, the -[

WANTED: A WALK.

Every year regularly the David-
sonian comes out with the custom-
ary editorial or article protesting
against the marring and defacing of
the campus by the unsightly paths
cut across the grass. This especial-
ly refers to the short cut route used
between Rumple and the Literary |
Society Halls. This time, however,
tho there is the same cause for com-
Iplaint, this is not a protest, but al
Iplea that ‘we make the best of it
and if a path is going to be con-
tinually used there, as it is, to really
construct an honest-to-goodness
walk that will be a credit to the
campus instead of a scar. It is no
use to keep on requesting the Rum-
plites and other patronizers of this
air-line route to the business sec-
tion to refrain from walking there-
on, as it is obviously shorter, more
direct, and more convenient, and it
is consequently going to be used,
all prohibitions to the contray. If it
were not used from now on, it would
be quite a while before any grass
could be made to grow on it’s com-
pact surface, and it would continue’
to be a gash across that part of the
campus for many a day. Therefore
since it is one of the most heavily
used thouroughfares on the campus
and will continue to be so for all
time, why not improve it’s unsightly
appearance and incorporate it along
with the rest as a real walk with
all modern additions and improve-

you are in your home. fing the team any more when vou,
. hurl that epithet at them. You fel-
in Charlotte, and the people fat, city are to be complimented . : vatieede
S for the treatment afforded the Davidson’ students the short time Of harm if you cut that out entirely.
them. David has a fi 1 f My
° “ption ¢ s last week, however, makes us hope thz avicson has a line record tor al
The reception accorded us ope that that.is clean and true. so let’s don't
temporarily, yet the guardians of the peace let them do and say what
they pleased. This alone makes it apparent that they are glad to see the
son.in the world why a harmonious spirit should not exist between the
two, and with Charlotte meeting Davidson half way the future looks

A THOUSAND IS OUR GOAL.

A custom in vogue at some institutions is to adopt a school in a
foreign country, and by contributions of both money and teachers en-
deavor to make of it a college with similar aspirations and _ ideals.
While Davidson has never undertaken such a plan as this, yet she is
proud of the fact that one of her alumni, Mr. Wm. P. Parker, '11, is
giving his life in Christian service as instructor in mathematics at the
Presbyterian College, Pyengyang, Korea, being supported entirely by the
yearly contribution made by the student body for this purpose.

Although at times it seems that the call for money at college is
endless, it has always been a matter of pride that this appeal has been
supported wholeheartedly by the students. Realizing to the extent a
missionary is handicapped by the smallness of his salary, the manager
of the Parker Campaign Fund this year has set the goal of ONE THOU-
SAND DOLLARS. This means that each student will be called upon
to give two dollars and a half as his shgare, payable one-half December
and March. In some instances this will mean a denying of a few
things, but just think of the joy and happiness this recognition of his
services will bring to Mr. Parker. Is it not worth the sacrifice? Put

ourself in his place and see if you would not be grateful for a simi-
ar kindness. e who are here at Davidson enjoying its advantages and
opportunities are not aware of what it means to leave all to carry the
message of Light to heathen lands. Surely, we can deny ourselves this
much. Next Tuesday night you wil have your chance. Will you make
a little sacrifice in order to insure the success of the larger sacrifice of
Mr. Parker? _ " aly Qieg BI

_Assistant managers are appointed

ld greater solace bring. _
the Tt hand I held last night

The DAVID SONITAN) Open Forum | EXCH PHGEe No other hand into my soul

For the little

ler nag, Was four Aces and a King.

Noe) &,, ary —Cheer Up.
aN $1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

Read the exchanges in the “Y”

NEW INSTRUCTORS FOR
R. Cc.
Room.

For some time Captain Hearn has
been on the lookout for an officer
o1 two to add to the sergeants now
_supervising the work of our R. O.

The University of Alabama has
inaugurated a new method of elect-
ing managers. Under this method

the manager of cach team shall bel-p'¢ corps. Davidson has very
elected by a majority vote of the good prospects at present of ob-
members of the particular team. taining an infantry lieutenant,

The manager and the captain are
elected at the same time, and later
approved by the faculty committee.

whom the captain has picked as a
desirable man; and President Mar-
‘tin has heen able to get two senators
‘to aid him in influencing the war de-
on" partment to give us the lieutenant.

Sergeant Champs’ enlistment pe-
riod will soon expire, however, and
he now intends to leave. Even with
the services of the new lieutenant.
this loss will keep the number of
Captain Hearn’s assistants the same.
Tc meet this situation, another
sergeant has been picked, a man
who has formerly served under the

by the’ faculty committee

athletics.

In Washington and Lee's Ring-
Tum-Phi we read the following:
about the W. & 1..-Wake Forest
game: “Showing a complete rever-
sal of form over their ragged game
with Davidson last week, the Gen-
erals administered a thorough beat-

ing to Wake Forest, 27-0, Saturday captain and whose good. qualities
on Wilson Field.” Now really was,

: : ‘are well-known to him; and the
this such a complete reversal of machinery of the, government has
form? been put in motion to get him at
; Davidson also. The addition of

Simmons College is to have Stu- these two men to our R. O. T. C.
dent Self Government in the very; will put new life. and interest into
near future if the efforts being put the work, and help greatly the effi-
forth there are to be an index. The ciency of the corps.
proposed constitution which has .
been adopted unanimously by the
senior class is modeled closely after
similar constitutions oof — other
schools of the state. Very little op-
position to it has been encountered.
Special committees have been ap-|
pointed to look after the arrange-
ment of student government in the
virious dormitories.

$1.000 FOR PARKER FUND.

CHARLES RAY IN
“HOMER COMES HOME”

Charles Ray entertained the stu-
dent body and community in his lit-
tle town classic, “Homer Comes
Home,” at the “Y” movies Friday
night. Homer, who was a young
man of many ideas, was kicked from
one job to another and finally out of
itown because he tried to spring his
ideas at the wrong time. Hitting off
to the city, he lands in the office of
a wealthy manufacturer. After two
years of hard work and saving, he
hits upon the idea of starting a
branch factory in his home town.
His boss thinks it a joke and offers
Homer a vacation to see what he
can do with his idea. Homer ar-
> . ranges to arrive at his home on the

“Have you a warning signal onl special which stops only for impor-
the front of your car?” _ [tant personages., From the time he

“Ves: | have a little round thing steps off the special into the crowd
that says ‘Dodge Brothers. "—Ex. |of admiring townsmen he carries on
the bluff. winning the hearts of his
former employer, future father-in-
law and his townsmen. On the final
Methought me heart would break|/day when his last dollar is gone he

with joy, wins their interest in his new idea
— nes {vets them to subscribe to the
ments? It is folly to refuse to[ "ew factory. An_ interesting love
recognize its existence just because | StOTY Is woven into the plot and the
it is not included in the architectural} “illian_ who tries to thwart all his
designs of the campus in the office. | Plans is finally overcome and Homer
It is there and needs attention badly. | Wins his lady along with his big idea.
Even to the causal visitor riding
through the grounds it is a promi-
nent and ugly feature and it's trans-
formation into a good gravel walk
is the immediate need for a more
beautiful campus.

Don't fail to knock the college—
it needs knocking for vou are a part
of it.

Son—"Why do people say dame
gossip?”

Father—“Because they too polite
to leave off the ‘ec.’ "—Tattler.

Jack--Girls are prettier than men.
Jean—Why—naturally.
Jack —No; artificially —Widow.

Danger! Dodge!

Last night 1 held a little hand.
So dainty and so neat;

_$1.000 FOR PARKER FUND.

The High School and two graded
class rooms have been equipped with
new single desks which is a great

Wattite. improvement over the double desks.

Mo men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking.
There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and
economy in a good pip. WDC i

\ Pipes give you this, and
more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French
briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a good shape
at your nearest dealer’s, at your price.

Wa. DEM UTH, & CO. .NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGESTEMAKeRsMOrEPING PIPES

