4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of "15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

eoeeccece

joeesvcee

PMPPUROSPSeP

issue arc: King, A. D.; Mauze, G. WV. } Ormand, A. P.; Fraser,

H ; .H . DH
& i eee i vi. siley, J. Sims Guire, E Hs Osa See acwee Business Manager
T. H. WILSON.... istant Manager
L. L. McALISTER. irculation Manager
¢ Bo ONG oe Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

OFFICIAL REPORTS.

Weather Bureau: The periodical downpour will descend upon Da-
vidson on Saturday night.

Science Department: A flock of rare birds are expected soon to ap-
. pear on the cupola and the adjacent territory.

Flu has flew.

Health Department:

dicial Department: Everything from the fate of the Kaiser to the
next President of the United States will be definitely decided in Shear-

er Hall.

War Department: Presentation of regimental colors brings up the

morale of the army.
War next President we have some elections of our own which
should command our most careful consideration. March in this
college is not the month for inauguration but it is the month for some
of the numerous student elections. The first officer to be chosen this
year is the president of our Y. M. C. A., recognized by all the students
as a position most difficult to fill and most important to be filled cor-
ly.
rect Fortunate have we been in the selection which has been made for
the past few years. Experience therefore should teach us that the right
man can be found if the proper judgment be exercised. What, then, are
the qualifications which should guide us? The ideal is a man who pos-
sesses the rare combination of being a deeply consecrated Christian, a
capable leader, a convincing speaker, and a congenial companion. Piety,
power, popularity, and push should be his attributes.

The question has often been raised as to whether he should be a
ministerial student. Although the fact that a man has given himself to
the ministry is a fair indication of his consecration, it is not compulsory
that the Y president should have definitely made this decision. To be a
successful religious leader, however, a man must have a deep religious
fervor himself, and unless this is conspicuous he should not be consid-
ered.

Begin to think on this question and let your choice be made care-
fully and prayerfully, having in mind the importance of the position and
the necessity for securing the most capable leader. Elect a man who
can carry on the Y. M. C. A. work as it has been done in the past, who
can live as an example for his fellow-students, and who can safely lead
them in their Christian work.

HILE the people of this country are worrying over who shall be

on a more literary paper published monthly or quarterly. There is

a third class which divides its attention between a literary magazine
and a weekly newspaper, to which class Davidson belongs. This year
has seen the revival and growth of the Magazine to a place which it
has seldom occupied before. The type of literary work and the regu-
larity of publication has been far superior to that of any recent year.
The old students recognize this fact and appreciate the work of those
who can claim responsibility for this charge. . oo.

As outlined by our professor of English there is a sharp discrimi-
nation between the field of the Magazine and that of The Davidsonian.
The former exists for the purpose of developing literary talent, of cul-
tivating any latent power for writing which might exist among the stu-
dents. It would be a mistake in his opinion to put into it too much of

- current college topics or by inserting too many jokes for the purpose
of attracting the attention of the reader. The student body should be
raised to the level where it could appreciate the literary efforts, instead
of lowering the quality of the Magazine to make it more attractive. .

The opportunities for practice in writing as offered by the Magazine
could prove of invaluable aid to any one who has entertained ambitions
along those lines. The work can be helpfully criticised either by the

rofessor of English or by the members of the staff. The opinion and
judgment of the students could provide helpful suggestions for future
work. The power of writing interestingly and entertainingly is ines-
timably useful even if it is not taken up as a regular vocation.

For the purpose of stimulating interest in literary work there are
several handsome prizes annually given by various organizations on the
hill. The medal given by the Sigma Upsilon is for the man who has
done the best work for the Magazine during the current year. It is
given after the last issue has been published and it is not too late for
any one to compete. The two literary societies also have fiction con-
tests for which Magazine activities can be used. All these exist for the

urpose of encouraging literary work and should be taken advantage of
y the students both from a standpoint of personal gain and from the
desire to render effective service for the Davidson College Magazine.

Gone colleges center their attention on a weekly publication, others

‘“iianagiog alter| discipline; they remember the of-

:|ficers and some little pet phrases of
trieach; they remember pay day and
iter! the perfect nonchalance with which

tor! coin for luxuries hitherto undreamed
tor) of ; they

c . , °
Assistant Managers| quarantine which was imposed on

THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1920.

CONCERNING THE R. O. T. C.

For the third year Davidson has a
military course in her curriculum.
The first year even under the exist-
ing conditions of a world war it
amounted to practically nothing;
consisting of three hours of drill a
week, The second year our country
prepared to use her utmost re-
sources for the sake of victory, in-
duced all the students in the first
class colleges of America into the
S. A. T. C. Here the training was
much more intensive—military per-
fection being the goal instead of
achievements of scholarship. The
signing of the armistice ended the
war before the S. A. T. C. was of any
material service and its members
were soon all discharged.

After the Christmas holidays the
students of this college voted to
continue a mild form of military
training and so the R. O. T. C. was
established at Davidson. Drill was
scheduled for an hour a day, three
days a week, and the students re-
ceived a full terms credit that might
be substituted for any regular col-
lege ticket. As a matter of. fact
drill was conducted five days of the
week due to the fact. that it was not
begun till late in the term.

The man detailed by the govern-
ment as head of the department of
military science and tactics was
Col. A. H. Meuller, who has proven
to the satisfaction of practically
every man at Davidson that he is in
every way qualified to hold this

osition. The- Davidson College
and is in itself a positive proof of
this fact.

In this the third year of our mili-
tary career we have drilled our
three full hours a week having a
complete schedule, including such
particulars as, all ceremonies and
close order drill, extended order, in-
spections from rifle to full pack,
rifle drill, — bayonet training,
grenades, setting up exercises, etc.
In addition two hours each week of
class work has been required, this
includes work in map reading, in-
fantry drill regulations, minor tac-
tics, interior guard duty, orders and
messages, engineering and military
courtesy. In addition—extra work
is arraigned in the afternoons for
target practice, physical examina-
tions and field meets. A student be-

“SPIC AND SPAN.”

QOUey

, mh '
Nata Y

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

More than half the members of
our student body remember the life
in the S. A. T. C. They remember
the gruelling drill and the strict

JAZZY JOKES.

A moonlight night,
A maiden fair,
Alluring light
In golden hair.
A sly caress,
Two lips that cling
A whispered “Yes,”
A wedding ring.
—Mississippi Collegian.

they parted with their hard earned

remember the disastrous
“flu” epidemic and the rigid quaran-
tine enforced at that time; they re-
member that last night as in a fever
of excitement they waited for morn-
ing to come, and for that hour to ar-
rive when they would receive that
much coveted discharge, and last
and best they remember their joy-
ful departure on the 11:50 train.
These and many other things they
remember about their army life.
Nevertheless, they seem to have for-
gotten that other severer and closer

Fish—I have a friend who suffers

terribly from the heat.
Soph.—Where does he live?
Fish—He isn’t living.

When all the elephants were made
a lump of ivory was left over and
when all the hyneas were made a
face was left over; when all the
giraffes were made a pair of front
legs were left over. All these were
assembled and Ezra was the result.

them for failure to keep camp free
from litter and waste. And surely
they have forgotten how pretty and
attractive the grounds became be-
fore that quarantine was lifted.
Junior Speaking is upon us and:
Volunteer Conference is only two
weeks off. We should try to make
as good an appearance as possible
at such an occasion as this, when
there are so many visitors on the
hill. The college has just finished
the long postponed job of clearing
the campus from leaves. Surely
with such a start as this we can keep
jit clean for a few days. Whenever
you start to throw peanut hulls,
banana peels, cigarette stumps, etc.,
on the campus just think of the fol-
lowing rhyme and act accordingly :

Sweet young thing—Don’t the
logs kinder thrill you with their
tuneful whistle and mournful
whine ?

Freshie—Sure! Kinder reminds
me of a logarithm.—Exchange.

EARLY SPRING.

The farmer may talk of the blue-
birds ;

Of zephyrs the poets may sing;

But a tack upright,

On the floor at night,

Is the sure sign of an earl (Spring.

Sixty anxious Juniors looking for
their girls and friends,

The opinion formed by guests of the
speaking, depends

On whether we remember the trash
can,

And try to keep the campus “spic
and span.”

It seemed that when Rastus and’
Sam died they took different routes,
so when the latter got to heaven he
called Rastus on the telephone.

“Rastus,” he said, “how yo’ like

Triple X. ing absent from these duties re-|it down thar?”
—— ceives a class absence and in ad-| “Oh, boy! Dis am some place,”
Dear Mr. Common Sense: dition, whatever his excuse—he is) Teplied Rastus. “All we has ter do

is ter wear a red suit wid horns, an
ebery now and den shovel some coal
on de fire. We don’t work no more
dan two hours out of de twenty-
four down here, but tell me, Sam,
how it is wid you up yonder?”

“Mah, goodness! We has ter get
up at fo’ o'clock in de mornin’ and
gathah in de stahs; den we has ter
haul in de moon and hang out de sun.
Den we has ter roll de clouds aroun’
all day long.”

“But, Sam, how comes it yo’ has
ter work so hard?”

“Well, to tell de truf, Rastus, we’s
kin’ o’ short o’ help up here.” —Ex.

“When I told her I killed a Ger-
man with one hand, she grabbed it
and kissed it all over.”

“You're an idiot,”
“Why didn’t
Hun to death

required to make up all time he
misses by punishment tours.

For a years work in this course
the faculty offers one half of a
years credit. This they say is the
best inducement they can afford
without lowering the standards of
the college. Therefore, it would
seem that there is but one solution
for this condition. Is there any one,
at Davidson willing to suggest this
solution ? LXX.

At least a few of us have pref-
erence to the way in which we rid
ourselves of R. O. T. C. Our one
‘thought is that it must go.

You have indeed quite a nice plea
on patriotic grounds, but is it not
possible that this is mistaken ardor
on your part? The Faculty gives us
only one terms credit for a whole
years work in this subject. If they
considered R. O. T. C. service our
patriotic duty would they not sanc-
tion it with at least a full credit?
Should we not in every way try to
follow the lead of the Faculty? If
they accept military training only
half heartedly should we not con-
form?

Your next argument seems to be
that we should drill because we are
so well equipped. It is true that we
are well equipped, but are we child-
ren to spend our time playing soldier
because of the “cut little com ass,”
or “Oh, see my nice new whistle,”
or “Do come look at my really truly
army rifle.”

Just because you are ignorant do

you refuse to attend school or
study? If your appendix should
burst would you refuse an opera-
tion? Is it any better reasoning to
say: 1 Why not take an interest in
it and make the most of the situa-
tion,” and not make the most stren-
uous effort to remove the “situa-
tion.”
__ Drill would not be so unbearable
if it occupied only the prescribed
amount of time, but this is not the
case, we have begun to have our
drill period transferred to the after-
noon where it is terminated only by
the supper bell.

The Davidson students brought
R. O. T. C. here by their own vote.
Can we not send it away in the same
manner? It is at least worth a
trial.

CONSIDERATION.

Should a Davidson man venture to
criticize the Faculty, he is im-
mediately overwhelmed by multi-
tudinous disquisitions anent the
benevolent generosity of said Fac-
ulty. However, hearken to a little

(Continued on page 5)

said his pal.
ou tell her you bit the
?”_ Ex,

wdc Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s
Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The

WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in
sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band
and bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order—that’s what
we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer.

‘Wem. DEMUTH & CO., New vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS”OF FINE Pipes

its lil

Yours very truly,
Bloomin’ Idiot.

