THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

Athletic News

TONIA COUNTRY CLUB
GAS WINS GOLF MATCH

Davidson's Players Outclassed by
Players From Cotton Mill City.

On last Friday the second of our
golf matches was played, this one
with the Gastonia team. The four
players, escorted by Mr. Charlie
Grey, the president of the club at
Gastonia, arrived in the morning
and the match was begun early in
the afternoun. From the very first
it was evident that our opponents
were of excellent ability and that
we would have to extend ourselves
to keep abreast of them. The match
was played in two foursomes.
Messrs. Switzer, Lyle, Fricker and

Hawkins composed the first group, '
and Harrer, Walker, White, and Dr. |

Woods the second. The driving of
the men from Gastonia surpassed
ours, but we had the edge on them
in putting. Lyle and Harrer were
easily the two best players on the

thy Shepard 7; wild pitches, by Mur-
[ray 2; hit batsmen, by Murray 1; .

Shepard p ----- 30027 1
Richards cf ....4 01 1 90 0,
Wrenn c ------ 40°08 0 0
Cassell, E 3b --- 3 0.0 2 5 1!
Poe If ---------- 400000
McArn Ib ~----- 30091 2
Crawford rf _... 3 0 1 1 0 0'
30 0 42715 4

Score by innings R.H.E.
N. C. State -.020 000 000-2 7 1

Davidson ---.000 000 000—0 4 4

Summary—Two-base hits, Fau-
cett, Crawford: sacrifice hits, Gur-
ley ; base on balls, off Murray 3, off iN
Shepard 2; struck out, by Murray8,

stolen bases, Kirkpatrick, Murray,
Cassell, F.; left on bases, State 9,
Davidson 6; time of game, two

| hours, Umpire, Dehaney, Attend-
ance 1800.
FURMAN GAME.
The Wildcats added another

>
Wiis. ~ ww

Mecklenburg Chero-Cola Company

course, with the latter pulling down scalp to the string by taking Fur-
a slightly smaller score. The final; man into camp to the tune of 8 to 1.

score showed Gastonia eight or nine The game was slow and unexciting, |

up in both foursomes, giving themiwith few spectacular plays. Not-
the match. White did the best play- withstanding this disagreable fea-
ing for us; and the play was greatly ‘ture, the final result was in doubt

assisted by the able caddying of until Richards slammed out a triple

eight of our foremost golf appren-, in the seventh with the hassocks
tices in the fresh class. loaded, and put the game on ice.
Both teams registered in the first
stanza. Furman scoring once and
the Wildcats twice. From then on
until the sixth no runs were shoved
across, but in this frame the Pres-
byterians tallied once. The av-

CAROLINA AND
STATE COLLEGE

(Continued from page 1)

DIAMOND DUST

With the season about one-third
over, Davidson has won four and
lost two. The two games lost were
[against two of the strongest teams
that will be met this season. One
| game was lost by a one-run margin
and the other was lost by two runs.
So go GET ’EM, WILDCATS!

the twirling of both moundsmen,
Faucette’s winning clout and Nor-
wood’s sensatonal catch in the final
stanza. This catch probably saved
the game ior with two on and one
down in the ninth, Wrenn picked out
a good one. and sent it sailing to-
ward the right-center field fence.
Norwood by a hard sprint made a
spectacular one hand stab at thé
sphere and caught it on a dead run.
The two Red and White tallies
were scored as follows: Ervin lined
out to Ratchford. Norwood singled
and Murray followed suit. Wood
hit to short and Norwood was fore-
ed out at third. Faucett then hit to
the Chero Cola sign in left center
for a double, and scored two run-
ners, which put the game on ice.
Davidson’s best chances to score
came. in the fourth and ninth. In

alanche on the next inning was the Six games have been played for a
final scoring. Twice the South total of 54 innings. Davidson has
Carolina tads had beautiful’ chances scored 35 runs, against 15 for her
to score but the necessary hit was (opponents. Also, 54 hits have been
lacking. The bases were full in rolled up against 32 for her oppon-
both the third and sixth innings, but ents. WHAT MAKES 'EM WILD?
the third out was an easy one. Fur-
man had ten men left on bases while
the winners had four.

Just a little dope on the Wildca
twirling staff: >
' The playing of Speer for the Currie has won two and lost none.
losers stood out as a prominent fea- , “Buck” has pitched 18 innings, strik-
‘ture during the entire game, The jing out 11, walking 4, and hitting 1.
All-Southern quarter made three| Out of six trips to the plate he has
hits in five trips to the plate and put | connected for one safety.

up a wonderful brand of fielding,| Miley has won one and lost none.
making catches of the shoestring “Dill” finished up the Catawba game
variety. The playing of Shepard, after Shepard had won it and
and Richards featured for the win-, therefore has pitched a total of 12
‘ners, The former got three bingles/ innings. Old “Smiling Apple Plug
out of four tries and the latter made ' has struck out 9 and walked 2. Out

1a double and a triple in four at-,of two official trips to the plate he

tempts. ‘has failed to hit.

the former, Ratchford singled and
Shepard walked. Richard went:
out on strikes, but both runners ad-
vanced on a passed ball. The Red.
and Black hopes were shattered a
moment later however, when.
Wrenn forced Ratchford at the
plate and Cassell took the count on:
three good ones. In the ninth
Richards reached first just when
his outfield fly was misjudged.
Wrenn’s crash to center, as describ-
ed above, was caught by Norwood
after a hard try. Cassell was hit

Knight pitched a good game for

for the disastrous seventh, kept the
opponents hits well scattered. He
was given miserable support how-
ever, and this accounted lor several
of the Red and Black runs. Currie,
on the mound for the Wildcats, did
excellent hurling and worked out
of several bad holes. The big boy
caused ten of the opposing batters
to return to the bench via the strike
out route.

the Palmetto state lads, and except |

Shepard, pitcher and outfielder,
ihas won I and lost 2. “Shep” has
pitched 25 innings, striking out 21
and walking 66. He is running sec-
ond in the hitting, having swatted
out seven safeties in 20 tries, for an
average of .350.

|
. Ten of the Wildcat hits have been
| for extra bases. Those who have
secured hits good for three sacks
are Richards and Crawford. “John-

inie” has two to his credit, while

but Poe ended the game by fouling
off five good ones and then striking
out.

_A crowd of 1800 was out to see
Coach Fetzer's white stockings go
to victory over his former proteges
from Davidson. Plenty of noise
was heard from both sides. The Red

and Black supporters were found,

mainly, as usual back of the players’
dug-out in the right section of the
Stands.
the music and a loyal band of
Queens College was out with their

The Band was there with |

The scoring was as follows: Fur- | “Craw” has one. Seven two-bag-
man drew blood in the opening g's have been_made as follows:
frame when Speer dumped one| Richards (2), Cassell, E. McArn,
along first base line and beat it out ; Poe. Shepard, and Crawford.
by inches. He advanced to second
on a_passed ball and went to third
on Carter’s sacrifice. Nixon flew
jout but Cox doubled. Rhame ended

the inning with a pop fly to the in-|two are wielding “Old Betsy” above
field.. The Wildcats came back! the .300 mark. Six are hitting above
strong in this half however, and 200.

put a brace across. Cassell, F. flew
‘to center and Ratchford popped up:
to shortstop. Shepard lived on an

The clan is swatting the old pill
for an average of .241. Of the 12
who have participated so far, only

Individual standing, including the

yells for their brother Presbyte-; €Fror. stole second and scored on

rian college. The day turned out Richard's double. Wrenn knocked Player. AB, H Ave.
to be ideal for an exhibition of the |@ hot one to short and while he was/| Cassell, 3b -.._...-- 17° 6 .353
national pastime, but the diamond | booting it around, Richards came | Shepard, Pp --------- 20 7 .350
was a bit slow on account of the re-;#CT0Ss. No more scoring was done | Richards, cf ..._-- 21 6 276
cent rains and this caused a lag in! untl the sixth. In this frame, Shep- | Poe, If -----.-- 2 - e 15 4 266
the fielding. _ard singled. Richards flew out but! Cassell, F., ss ______- 21 5 238
The box score: j Wrenn knocked one to short. The| Ratchford, 2b _--_-- 23 5 «(1218
N. C. State ABRH POA F| ball got away from his and rolled|Crawford, rf -...__- 14 3 214
Faucette lb _.._.5 0 210 0 ake center field and Shepard scored Wrenn, c --.-------. 20 4 .200
Gurleyc _.-.--4 00810 by a piece of brilliant base-running.! McArn, Ib ___-_____ 18 +3 .166
ohnson 3b ---_ 4 0 1 1 2 | Lhe seventh produced five tallies | Currie, p -....-_-__- 6 1 166
boners rf... 300000 for the Wildcats. McArn led off| Miley, p -.--------- 2 0 .000
Kirkpatrick 1f 4 003 00 with a single to center and went to| Johnson, c --..-_--. 4 0 .000
Ervin ss __..... 00120 second on a sacrifice by Currie. Cas-
Norwood cf -...3 01101 sell, F. singled and Ratchford fol- Why can’t we back the team at
Murray p ---_- 412130 lowed suit filling the bases. Shep-! home the same way we do while it
Wood 2b _...... 411130 herd singled scoring McArn. Rich-|is performing away from home.
— — — _ _ __|ards then put the game on ice when | “COME ON, BLEACHERITES.”
33272711 1 with the count we and two he
Davidson A slammed the horsehide to the center! When a fellow needs a friend—is
Cassell, F ss __. R R H FO 3 E field fence for a triple scoring the} when a bounder takes a bad hop.
Ratchford 2b _-_3 0 1320 (Continued on page 7) (Continued on page 7)

iN. C. State game, finds the Wildcat
| pill tossers lined up as follows:

“7

—

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE

He represents only the best companies and has
He is also a Public Notary and at

He wants your business.
every facility for meeting your requirements.
your service

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced
by the Greatest Artists

Sheet Music

Panos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments,

and Everything in Music

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM

PC ADEM)

,
q 7
amy 1 Ci

Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.

Thursday, Friday, Saturday, April 15, 16, 17

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

Z
e

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

F.

HILL AND MAYO
Singing Comedy Couple

FOUR OF A KIND
A Winning Hand in England

PAUL McCARTHY AND ELSIE FAYE

In ‘‘Waiting for Someone’

NEAL ABEL
The Man With the Mobile Face

a

A VAUDEVILLE
SURPRISE

