4

The DAVIDSONIAN,

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mait Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Open Forum

“HUMOR VS. PROFANITY.”

The view of the writer in last week’s
Devidsonian that the use of profanity in
our college yells and songs indicates a
“sense of humor” was hardly shared by
the policeman who endeavored to make
our students—-Davidson students—stop
using profanity in the hearing’ of tlie
ladies and other citizens on the Char-

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

SSELL_..--------------eenennnnceenenenenen eee eee een nae Editor-in-Chief

j E hese Ne Seerereeerheekhkkkekke eee eee. Managing Editor !otte streets. It was hardly shared by
A. P. ORMOND.____------------- anne enn Assistant Managing Editor the godly founders of Davidson or their

"P. PRICE. _..---------nn nnn nneenneen nee nneennoeenccseeeen nnn. Assignment Editor successors, whose gifts and labors have
J. P. PRICE.....--.. ; i
M. R. DOUBLES wnonnnnannnanennnnaneananen ena nn eee como w mmm nnn n Athletic Editor given us the privileges we now enjoy
J. MeCASKILL v-sannassvvoaac22_DUITTTTIITTITIIIIIIIIITT change Editor 28, Davidson students
im R. BOULWARE...-.0-0-.2- ene e ee one eee Forum Editor! At acceptance of the standard for our
| M. DUNLAP...-W2W 2 --2--ceecncence sec seensu sas nneoesesoeneee Campus Editor |language as set out by last week's
J. M. DUNLAP..----.... i
D. W. ROBERTS....--.-------------------------------0-22----- Y. M. C. A. Editor writer would be a serious blow to the
H. A. HILL... -----a--------onsennno nnn enos ee L Social Editor : ideals for which Davidson stands. The
BR MelLWAIN Eason snann Ocal Photographer ideals of Davidson Colfege have not had

in the past, and do not have now, any

’ relations to profanity. The same is

REPORTERS CLUB true of Davidson ideals in athletics. -

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H. Profanity is not an essential to red-
BITZER, R. LONG, C. G. OGDEN, D. H. blooded scrapping. Cromwell's Iron-

ORMAND, A. C.
SUMMERS, A. C.
WOOL, J. C.

MAHOOD, D. L.

MAUZE, G. W.
MITCHELL, A. M.
PHILLIPS, J. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

COOPER, W. J.
CUNNUNGHAYM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

sides were brave and strong not only
because of their Christian faith, but also
because of their Christian practices.

Business Manager | Went through West Point without a

demerit, didn’t find profanity necessary

Assistant Managers 0 his bravery and wonderful general-
: ship.

| The use of profanity is regarded as an

Circulation Manager _indication of poverty in the command of

Weer ee cence enenee. Assistant Manager words. If we Davidson students have so

or they make the paper possible. few yells and songs that we must fill in

with profane ones, it will be a very sim-

ple matter to ask suggestions from the

students for additional songs and yells;

it will be a very simple matter to find

other words for the “Hail, Hait!” tune.

Cc. J. MATTHEWS.

E. A. NASH

J. S. CURRY

C. H. LONG.-

J.C. WOOL..---
Patronize our Advertisers,

EDITORIAL

We are wondering if our athletic “jinx” could be buried in Charlotte.
It now seems that the Queen City smiles upon the Red and Black as
much as could be desired.

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

gentleman never uses profanity. Pro-
fanity is the same whether it comes in

: . : its distastefulness from the gutter or
he busy routine of your every day ' p
Do not become so occupied with t Wed y ye Y | sugar-coated with melody and college

life that you will fail to,catch the ispiration of a future life of Breat, irit. We should have a number of

unselfish service.

Our hats are off to the Citadel team, for though outplayed, they never them fequently Priaciate: provanity ‘
once resorted to dirty or unfair tactics. Congratulations to the team'"° cepimg w ¢ Uiings Vavidso!

‘i 1 lay clean athletics stands for and Davidson students should
that can always play cles not be asked or encouraged to use it on

the blanket plan, either by supporting
such a song-as “Hail Hail!” as it is at
present worded or by a yell of “Fifteen”
‘or “Haka-a-raka” or anything else for
i“Whole —— Team.”

Fellows, let's keep our standards high.
Let the better clement in our student
bedy exert itself, kindly, but courageous-
ly and positively, and nip in the bud any
attempt to deprive our “Old Davidson"
of the high place in the religious, moral
and athletic world which ycars of splen-

Do not fool yourself by ever thinking that betting on your team is an
indication of your loyalty and support. It is due either to the love of
gambling, or to the selfish desire to gain “easy” money by winning.

D———_

OR the first time this year our Varsity eleven will be seen in

F action on the home grounds when they meet, University of
South Carolina here Saturday. All indications point to this be-

ing a hard fough game, and this being the case it is all the more pos-
sible that certain little things happening by chance might thoughtless-
ly be construed wrongly if the students are not on their guard. Always |
has it been said of Davidson by visiting teams that they were never
treated better at any school and it iour hope that during the Present; #0 “tent t went
ycar this can again be the case; therefore, we urge each student to ex- | did effort have given Mer Ieior, £8
tend every possible courtesy to the visitors while on our campus. At one txcelsior, 88.
of our neighboring colleges this fall, the students repeatedly gave ————____—_
cheers for their opponents when executing some skillful play, and surely BAND PERFORMS BEFORE
the fair spirit of Davidson is not one to be outdone in anything of a QUEENS COLLEGE STUDENTS
similar nature. Let it be said of the supporters of the Red and Black
that whether their team is winning or losing, they always recognize
and acknowledge those traits which are admirable in their opponents.

ARE YOU PROGRESSIVE?

We arc glad to know that the plan first advocated through our pub-
lication of having a ministrel to take the place of Senior Speaking is be-
ing materialized. We hope it will not be amiss to again urge that every
man in the student body who has any talent at all along this line make! ome people delight to hear.
haste to answer the call that has been issued in order that definite action | proceeded to Queens College,
may be taken. D. jthey were received with open arms, ears

and hearts?

The need is only too apparent for better social conditions on the! When one of the members alighted
campus. This is your chance. Do not let it stip by unheeded. Forget] from the street car a fair damsel rush-
the fact that it is not a Davidson custom to have a ministrel, and get!ec up, as tho to receive him, taking the
into the game. Let it be your desire*to make the first trial such a suc- |
cess that it will become an annual custom. This show together with dropped his instrument and prepared
concerts by the Band and Glee Club would give an opportunity for two| for the welcome but Lo! she passed him
or three days of innocent pleasure that would be beneficial in many | up and was in the arms of another—fair
ways. Why not start something new? Do not be content to remain] Queen.
in a rut. After some trouble he was restored to
consciousness and with just a shurt de-
lay the band was starting on the first of
the ten numbers of the concert.

The question is now being debated as to whether the North Carolina{ During the intermission the soloist.
game will be played in Charlotte or not. This change we believe| Houston White sang several lyrics in
would be welcomed by the majority of the students not only because | Spanish, accompanied by William P.
the Queen City has shown that it will support our team, but the saving| Nesbitt on the guitar.
in railroad fare if the game is not played in Winston-Salem, would| The program was brought to a close
amount to about fifteen hundred dollars for the student body. Under|with “O Davidson.” It was followed by
such circumstances a greater number of the boys will see this game, and|a reception which everyone fenjoyed.
this aspect is an important one as every supporter of the Wildcats will] But as everyone knows—there is an
be needed to help our team win from the Tar Heels. end to every “Perfect Day,” thus the
band took their departure giving “15”
for Queens.

After the members of that famous or-
ganization, namely the “Davidson Col-
lege Band.” had supped sumptuously at
one of the famous “Chop-Suey” houses
in the Metropotis of Charlotte, they met
,in the lobby of the Mecklenburg Hotel;
collected their instruments, which tho
they torture your sense of hearing—

sp
CHANGE CAROLINA GAME TO CHARLOTTE.

As far as the money making end of the game is concerned the Wake
Forest game in Charlotte netted the management about the same as —— D—_—_
the Carolina contest in Winston last fall. There can be no doubt but| Listen, Old Men! We are expecting
that the Blue and White eleven will be a bigger drawing card than the| you here Saturday and down on Sprunt
Baptists and the whole Queen City will turn out to see this classy|Field in the afternoon yelling for the
football scrap. With such an attendance the receipts will be far in ex-|old Red and Black like you used to do!
cess to anything that the Twin City could give. For these two striking | Don’t forget to be here, fellows, for we
reasons we would urge that all possible means be tried to change this|are going to have a great jubilee after

_ game to Charlotte. the game.

Robert E. Lee, the only man who ever *

It is further recognized that a true:

They then-
where

assurance literally, with open arms—he !

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1920.

EXCHPNGE

2 sin
aa yr

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

ODE TO AUTUMN.

The naked hills lie wanton to the
breeze;

The fields are nude, the groves un-
frocked;

Bare are the shimmying limbs of the
shameless trees.

What wonder if the corn is shocked?

—The Reveille.
— pp
“A garter’s not a cow,
Just ‘cause it’s round a calf.”
—The Crimson and White.
——p_—____

The Freshman class offers a reward of
13 cents for the apprehension of the guy
‘who started the rumor that said class
_has no spirit-——The Technique.

{ _ pe
“We won 7-0, by the grace of God and
sity = prayers."—A Georgia professor's
telegram to his wife after the Furman-
Georgia game.
‘ ——D

WHY WAIT?

The clock struck nine. I looked at Kate
Her lips were rosy red.

“At quarter after nine, I mean
To steal a kiss,” I said.

She cast a roguish glance at me,
And then she whispered low,
With quite her sweetest smile,
“The clock is fifteen minutes slow.”
—Sewanee Purple.
D——-_

A woman is as old as she looks—a

| The Old Gold and Black (Wofford).
———_D___.

Some More You Tell 'Ems.

You tell ‘em Near-Beer, you're so
gentle.

You tell ‘em Corkscrew, you're
crooked.

You tell ‘em Uniform, you don’t
have fits.

You tell ’em Absence Regulations,
you're hard.

You tell ’em Pipe, you’re strong
enough.

You tell ‘em football, you're used
to kicks, .

You tell ‘em Doggett, you’ve got
the bark.

You tell ‘em Tennis Racket,
you've got the guts.
D.
‘Tie Better Because It Came From His
Heart.

Law Prof.—“Mr. Vance, we will as-
sume that—that you have been accepted
by the only girl. Now, Mr. Vance,
; what legal officer would you sec first,
‘to get the legal touch?”

Charlie Vance—“I reckon it would be
best to see a Justice of the Peace first,
sir.” ‘

Fresh—“You were not
the debate, were you?”

Mitler—“No.”

* Fresh—"I didn’t think so.”

prepared on

|

| EXERCISING OLE TAURUS.
By “Bobbie.”

Did you ever
‘Wake up in the
Morning and you've
Got a dark brown
Taste in your mouth
| And even the gentle
Cleansing water from
The tank makes you
| Sore cause it wakes
| You up more and
{You don’t care whether
‘Davidson runs out

Of grits or not
‘So you go on to
| Breakfast and even
|The green campus looks
Like it had

Been painted blue
| And the bright
Sunshine rates a
Scorn from your
Highness and that
Pesky bell rings
Again for that

First class which
Takes the joy that
Remains in this
Terrible life and

On class you sit

In a trance

Thinking that its

All wrong Oswald
And then you

Hear. one of old

Man Fairfax Harrison’s
Coffeepots spread the
Glad tiding that

The nine o’clock
Train is “in the yard”
Put old man grouch
Says no mail

For you and then
You agree with

Him and swear that
It’s all wrong but
just for habits sake
You'll go down and
Dust out the box so
The check from home

. Tesge :
songs and yells and should practice man is not old until he stops looking — | Next month will

Receive the proper
Courtesy and when
Your peepers gaze in
Uncle Sam’s cell they
;See a wonderful
Pink envelope
That you’ve been
Longing for and then
Old Man Gloom is
Out of date and gets
- swift kick which
Kegisters Joy, Jo
On your face arnt y
Oh, boy don’t the
Sun shine brightly and
Don’t the birds sing
Sweeter than usual
And you’ve most forgot
tyt won't there be |
A_moon tonight
Oh, boy did you ever?
——

The following watched the team in
action Saturday: O. P. (Ophelia) Hart,
"19, who is teaching in Charlotte; T. H.
Spence, '20, who is teaching at Oak
Ridge; Lee Campbell, ex-'23, now at
Wake Forest; R. D. and F. P. Hall, ‘19,
both of Belmont, N. C.; Lacy McAlister
and A. L. Fosque, '20; T. H. Wilson, '20,
who is now in business with his father
in Gastonia; R. R. Clarke, ‘19, of Estell,

S.C.
D—___
Mr. C. H. Hamilton as elder of Gil-
wood Church, attended the Synod.

i

ATR

i

I

know what
seasoning will do to make it break

aWDC Pipe full

Ask any good
pick yours,

Wm. DEMUTH & Co..

WORLD'S LancestT m

dealer to show you a

F you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke

of your favorite tobacco,
a teal French briar is,

Then you’lb
and what the Demuth
im sweet and mellow.
variety of shapes, then

NEW YORK

AKERS OF FINE PIPES

