THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI. SOCIETY HOLDS BEST
MEETING OF THE YEAR

Mediocre Debate in Eu—Liston Se-
verely Criticises ers.

Phi Society.

Several great things happened on
the hill last Saturday night. The D.
C. team showed they were still wild
Wildcats, Mary Pickford appeared
as picturesque in Rags as she could
have in silks, the Band brought for-
ward a new air, and the negative
won in the Phi Society.

The meeting as a whole might be
characterized as the best of the
year. The speeches were well out-

lined, and full of life and pep. Sev-| $90,000 still to be raised!

could state positively just what they
jdid favor (and, indeed, it is doubt-
‘ful if all of them knew). All were
given credits, however.

Boulware then gave an excellent
‘oration on “Salesmanship,” which

;smacked very strongly of Junior
{Speaking efforts.

The critic, for
| some unknown reason, was moved
; to commend the speaker very high-
ly. The house was so startled that
‘all thought of further business was
_abandoned, and the meeting was ad-
journed.

MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN
APPROACHING FINAL STAGE

| Ninety Thousand Must be Raised in

10 Days to Reach Goal Set.

Only 10 more working days and
This was

eral successfully engineered bushes|the task which confronted the Mil-

were pulled in grand style.

lion Dollar Campaign Committee on

The speakers for the affirmative! the 20th day of this month. Whether

were: C. K. Brown, R. R. Deaver,

and T. H. Spence, Jr. Opposing these |

the $910,000 already pledged is to be
paid

gentlemen were: L. L. Wilson, E.' fund increased by some $540,000 de-

Booker and A. L. Currie. The
question for discussion was: “Re-
solved, that the classics should be
made elective in literary courses.” |
The decision was three in favor of;

pends on the success of their efforts
in these last few days.

The campaign for the advance-
ment of Christian Education in
North Carolina was begun last July.

the negative.

J. M. Gaston and C. N. Morrison}
delivered orations. Mr. Morrison
gave a very deep and rather philoso- |
phical oration, as may be gleaned |
from his subject: “Where the hen!
scratches, there the worm abides.”

The extemporancous debate on:
“Resolved, that the faculty should
allow the students more class and
chapel cuts,” was argued by M. Mc-
Leod and R. R. Deaver. McLeod,
while on the affirmative, evidently
thinks he has cnough cuts allowed
already, and Deaver heartily agreed
with him.

The president announced that!
there will be no meeting next Sat-
urday night, the class that is due to
come off then will perform the fol-
lowing week.

Eu Society.
The debate in the Saturday night

‘be raised first.

.day of March.

;paign, Mr. Melvin, the director of

At that time the Presbyterians of
the State were asked to contribute
the sum of $1,000,000 for this cause.
Of that amount Davidson was to re-
ceive 40 per cent, the. Presbyterian
Colleges for Women, 45 per cent,

and Davidson’s endowment |

SAY IT WITH
FLOWERS

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

MANY FAIR VISITORS

(Continued from page 1)
Miss Mary Bradham, New Bern,

N.C
Pi Kappa Alpha.

Misses Julia Sherill, Elizabeth!
Bowles, Virginia. Henkel, States-
ville, N.'C.; Margorie Wearn, Cor-
delia Wearn, Eunice Blue, Margaret |
Maxwell, Charlotte, N. C.; Caroline |

|

‘

| es
| THE RALEIGH:
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE

J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.

Richardson, Sumter, S. C.; Frances 221 W. Trade St. : Phone 3486
Meadows, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Jetton Drug Company, Agents |
Edith McBee, Danville, Va.; Louise’ ——_~———— — ‘

Haynesworth, Florence, S. C.; Viv-'
ian Nelson, Johnson City, Tenn.;
Martha Carr, Johnson City, Tenn. ;
Della Wicker, Laurinburg, N. C.;'
Mrs. C. H. Barringer, Charlotte, N.|
C.

|| The COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK

OF CHARLOITE, N. C.

Beta Theta Pi. ;
Misses Elizabeth McClure, Ches-' | Capital, Surplus and Reserves Over
ter, S. C.; Marjorie Callison,

' Charleston, S. C.; Mildred Barbour,
Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Brown,
Charlotte, N. C.; Kathryn Newson,
Charlotte, N. C.; Faith Price, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Sidney Caldwell, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Cathryn Scott, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Grey, David-
son, N. C.; Estelle Tomlinson, Jack-
sonville, Fla.; Cornelia Sample, Me-
bane, N. C.; Virginia Arther, Green-
ville, S. C.; Sarah Watt, Reidsville,
N. C.; Lelia Cox, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Sarah Wilkins, York, S. C.;
Helen Regan, Gastonia, N. C.;
Margret Overton, Salisbury, N. C.;
Gaither Pierson, Salisbury, N. C.;
Travis Salisbury, Salisbury, N. C.;

WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Robinson Shoe Company

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes
for the Young Men’s trade

Mail orders given special attention.

Mission High Schools 8 per cent, and
Union Theological Seminary 7 per
cent. In addition to the $400,000
Davidson was to receive from this
source, $100,000 was offered by the
Rockefeller Foundation, and $60,000
more by Mr. C. E. Graham, of
Greenville, S. C., on the condition
that the million dollar fund should
All the pledges
made were conditionad on the se-
curing of subscriptions. for the en-
tire amount by midnight of the first

Since the beginning of the cam-

the work, and his corps of assistants

Eumenean Society was very much! have been engaged in the systematic
of the ordinary type. All the speak- canvassing of the entire state. This
ers (except Mitchell, who was ap-,task was completed only a_ short
pointed extemporancously) showed time ago. During the short time re-

a certain amount of preparation, but !
there was little organization and
less effective delivery. Considering,
however, that the first four speakers ;
were Freshmen, the debate did very
well,

Davidson opened the debate for
the affirmative, arguing that many
men would be driven away from col-

” lege if the study of the classical lan-
guages were forced upon them. Sor-
trels followed with a good speech in
which he showed that the men
would not be able to learn the old

lapproached or have not made their

maining they are asking that all
who for any reason have not been

pledges, send in voluntary subscrip-
tions to aid in filling out the needed
amount.

On Sunday, February 29, the pas-
tors of churches all through the
state will be requested to make a
special plea for this cause. The con-
tributions made on that. day will
probably decide whether the cam-
paign is to be a success or a failure.
The committee believes that the

languages as casily as the modern| Presbyterians of the “Old North
ones, because they would not have|State* will go over the top on that
as much interest in them. Mitchell | occasion as they have so often done
then argued that the classical lan-|pefore.

guages were “not for the masses”

as they had no way to make them MANY MEDALS TO BE

useful.
The negative side was a bit weak, AWARDED THIS SPRING

especially as the first two speakers .
did not know their speeches and had| Quite a number of medals are to
to use their notes. Toney asserted| be awarded this spring to the win-
that technicians ought not to come|ners in the various society and class
to literary colleges in the first place,| contests as well as for work for the
and that therefore the classical lan-| Magazine.
guages ought not to be thrown| A medal is offered by each society
overboard on their account. Fewell|for the best essay. Another medal
claimed that the classical languages | is offered for the best piece of fiction
were essential parts of the prepara-| from either society, the medal to be
tion of professional men. Harrel| awarded some time in April.
then closed with easily the best de-|_ The winners in the Fresh-Soph de-
bate of the evening, in which he|bate will be given a medal. A lov-
showed that our whole civilization is | ing cup is also presented annually to
founded on the works of the an-/the society winning this debate. The
cients and that to root out the study | finals in this contest will take place
of their languages would be to ring|on the 20th of April. Another cov-
the death knell of all the culture,|eted medal is the one offered by the
and all the art, and all the refine-| Sigma Upsilon Fraternity for the
ment of our present-day civilization.| best work in the Magazine. The
All the gentlemen showed up well| work is to be judged as to quantity
in rebuttal, especially Toney, Sorrels|as_well as quality.
and Mitchell. The house voted in| Believing that orators are made,
favor of the affirmative, but the|not born, the Juniors are rapidly
judges gave the decision to the neg-| getting their speeches in shape for
ative. the 27th of this month. On that
The critic (who, by the way, is|date the six best speakers will be
R. T. L. Liston) then rose and vio-|chosen to compete for the Junior
lently denounced all the speakers|Orator’s Medal, awarded after the
for their signal failure to concoct a| finals in June.
set of issues to meet his fancy. Fur-| Considering the large number of
thermore, all the gentlemen, it seem-| medals given in the various con-
ed, had argued so vaguely that it|/tests there is a chance for every-
was doubted if any in the house | body.

Robinson Shoe Company

Gastonia, N. C.

Mrs. A. V. Harrell, Charlotte, N. C.;
Mrs. Grace Adams, Charlotte, N. C.
Kappa Alpha.

Misses Margret McAuley, Rock-
ingham, N. C.; Kathrine Gilmer,
Anderson, S. €.; Blanche Savage,
Rocky Mount, N. C.; Elizabeth Car-
rigan, Raleigh, N. C.; Ruby Spencer,
Gastonia, N. C.; Fannie Furlow, |
Charlotte, N. C.; Bennie Lee Up-
church, Raeford, N. C.;-Eunice Blue, |
Racford, N. C.; Beth Huntley, ;
Wadesboro, N. C.; Kathryn Worth, ;
Spartanburg, S. C.; Eloise Martin,
Davidson, N. C. Virginia Scott
Charlotte, N. C.:Miu De Pont Con-
yers, Asheville, N. C.; Eloise Doxie,
Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. EileenWagner
King, Bristol, Tenn.; Mrs. Victor

Bob Miles.
Bachelors’ Club.

Misses May Stuart, Charlotte, N.
C.; Mary Bridges, Charlotte, N. C.;
Margret Evans, Charlotte, N. C.
Lelia Graham Marsh, Charlotte, N
C.; Margret Anderson, Charlotte, N
C.; Sarah Lingle, Davidson, N. C.;
Marie Edgerton, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Pricilla Catchins, Rock Hill, S.
C.; Margret Patterson, Savannah,
Ga.; Mildred Smith, Statesville, N.
C.; Ressie Chalmers, Charlotte, N.
C.; Mrs. J. T. Chalmers, Charlotte,
N.C.; Mrs. J. J. Hill, Red Springs, '
N. C.; Miss Caroline Crisp, Lenoir,
N.C.; Miss Eunice McAdams, Salis- |
bury, N. C.; Miss Lavinia Boyer,
Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth
Burns, Charlotte, N. C:; Miss Mary
Potter, Newark, N. J.

|

\

CAMP SAPPHIRE

BREVARD, N. C.
W. McK. FETZER, Direcror

Athletic

Educational Military

Six years of success and continued growth. Beautiful lake, base-
ball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect tennis courts, canoe trips
to Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175.

For information and catalog address the Secretary,

MACON REED, Davipson, N. C., |
until June 1;-after this date, Brevard, N. C. |

’
*

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates.
Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses

make the protection complete.

Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s

motto.

Every young man should have a life insurance policy.
Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy.
How much have you got?

Misses Sara Jeffreys, Winston-
Salem, N. C.; Olivia Wilson, Winston

Salem, N. C.; Lucia Wilkinson, Manag ARLES Manag
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Cobb, W. J. RODDY & c0., ere J.P. QU , al
Durham, N. C.; Mary Knight, Sum- Rock Hill, S. C. Charlotte, N. C.

ter, S. C.; May Jesse, Greenville, S.
C.; Pauline Hood, Spartanburg, S.
C.; Mary Love Fraleigh, Spartan-
burg, S. C.; Alberta Farmer, Ander-
son, S. C.; Dau Darlington, Laurens,
S. C.; Virginia Grey, Laurens, S. C.;
Mildred Hull, Shelby, N. C.; Virginia
Mosely, Orangeburg, S. C.; Mar-
jorie Fish, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary
Cooke, Johnson City, Tenn.; Daph-
onie Wimbish, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Ruth Hunter, Prosperity, S. C.;
Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Davidson, N. !
C.; Miss Crem Prince, Laurinburg,
x. C.; Miss Ester Patrick, Milan,
enn.

PEPSI-COLA

Stimulating Exhiliarating

|

_ Other Visitors.

Misses Louise Manning, Davidson,
N. C.; Iva Caldwell, Mount Ulla, N.
C.; Helen Meroney, Statesville, N.
C.; Edith Brown, Charlotte, N. C.;
Blanche Wright, Goldsboro, N. C.;
Evelyn Sadler, Washington, N. C.;
Mr. J. B. Nelson, Lenoir, N. C.;
Messrs. John Caldwell, ex-'21, J. E.
McKeithen, ’18, Jeff Inman, 19,
James McQueen, ex-’20, W. A.
Edgerton, ex-’21, R. D. Hall, 19, R.
E. L. Brown, ex-'22, G. M. Car-
michael, ex-’22, W. P. Harris, ex-’20.
J. B. Mallard, ex-’18.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

.
’

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped

Laboratories

