>

DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

The

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J ----.----Editor-in-Chief
Jj. M. _ ------------Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND.....---.------------------------------Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE_....-..---.-----------~----------------------------Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES.-..-..-.-...-------------~-----~-----------------Athletic Editor
C.J. MATTHEWS..-.-.-...-----...--------.----------.-------------Alumni Editor
J. © McCASKIL
R. BOULWARE, JR.-...

J. M. DUNLAP....-....... -- -- i
D. W. ROBERTS....----...-~-~--------+--------+--------------¥. M,C. A. Edi
H. A. HILL.....-.-.---.---- oo ee enn no nnn nnn nnn nnn e ene i ~Social Editor
. M. GASTON, JR...------..--.-.-----------------~.--.----- 2-2-2 iterary Editor
k R. MCI WVAUNE oo a, Official Photographer

BAILEY, J. C.
BITZER, R.
RAY

B L. J.
COOPER, W. J.

CUMMING, W. P.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell,
J. A. ‘Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T.
Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M.
Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN...-..-...---------.---------------2-2------------ ‘Business Manager

EA. NASH fone nneeneceeeneeneneeneeeeeeneeenee Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
mene nnec ene nnn nnn meen wenn enn mene n nen ec eee ee nnn nn= Circulation Manager
S é ‘WOOL ewnnn nner - aon nnn nnn enone nn nnn nn nn nnn ene enna nee _-Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

A happy and prosperous vacation to everyone!

May the kind hand of Providence be ever near the newly graduated
to guide and prosper them in their various walks of life.

Did you let the past session get away before you made your start?
If so, be sure to pet the jump on the gun next fall.

Where are the Annuals? We are hoping that just once before the
Millenium the almost impossible will happen in the way of this publi-
cation coming out on time.

The same old Commencement! Those who remained had a pleas-
ant time, but there was something missing. Was that something YOU?

Remember four hundred and fifty students must be here this fall.
Get your man now.

While on the face of things our debating season was poor, yet all
our opponents write glowingly of our representatives putting up plucky
fights. Better luck next session!

Since golf players are now to be given the “D,” why doesn’t some
refractory member of Davidson College advocate the same reward for
horse-shoe and croquet players, not to mention the “bull artists?”

I and delightful things, but there is none which the student body
regrets so much as the departure of our “Y” Secretary, Bob Miles,
and his wife. .

During his stay of about 18 months which seems all too short he
has won for himself a place inthe hearts of all the students that is truly
to be prized. Returning to his Alma Mater just after the close of the
war when things were in such a chaotic state at college as elsewhere,
Mr. Miles has played a big part in holding the student body steady and
true in this crisis. Truly it can be said that he was a friend to every
student. His Christian presence had grown to be almost an essential
part of our campus life, and his cheerful smile and greetings something
that made the day seem all the brighter.

They came to us as strangers, but they have gone as dear friends
who have always had the best interest of the students and college at
heart. They will be sorely missed, and all we can do is to wish for them

an even greater success in their new work than has rewarded them
here.

A FAREWELL TO A FRIEND.

HE closing of this session has’ brought to an end many happy

TO ANOTHER DEPARTING WE BID GOOD-BYE.

Davidson this spring as to her losing some of her best men. Just be-
fore the closing of school came the word that Captain Mueller had
been ordered to Fort Oglethorpe and that he would not return this fall.
{ttis useless to say that every Davidson man will extremely regret this
joss.

“It never rains but it pours,” can most appropriately be “fast to

Due to our being a non-military school, not just any officer could
adjust himself to the customs of thjs institution, but in Captain Muel-
ler there was found the Davidson ideal. A man effervesing with en-
ergy, full of consideration for the students and an initiator in man
progressive movements, he could not help but gain for himself the ad-
miration, good-will and friendship of the whole college. -

In his going we are losing a progressive friend of the school and
one whose Place will be hard to fill. In parting we extent to Captain
Mueller and his esteemed wife our sincerest regrets that they will not
be with us this fall, and wish for them a successful and pleasant stay at
their new post. .

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 28, 1920.

Y. M. C, A. RECEPTION.

| Open Forum | Excupnee
cor

Every year there is appointed by
the President of the Y. it C. Ava
reception committee. The work of
this committee is primarily to meet
the new men at the train, and to as-
sist them in being matriculated. The
reception committe wishes to extend
to every new student a hearty re-
ception. But heretofore it seems
that all the old men except those on
the committee and a very, very few
others, do not feel the responsibility
of the new men coming in. Most

everyone on the hill goes down to-

meet every train coming in the first
few days. It is great the see the
old men back, and we should give
the ma warm reception; but let’s
don’t forgets the lonely Freshman
standing over there on the side of
the road by himself. Or that one
who for the first time in his life has
come to see a college campus. Eve:
old man on the hill should feel it
his personal duty to meet the new
men at the train and make them feel
the good old Davidson spirit the first
time they put a foot on our terri-
tory. They have chosen to come to
us in preference to other institutions
for various reasons and let’s show
them they have made the right de-
cision by coming. .

Not only at the train should we
give them a hearty reception, but
when we see them on the campus,
let’s give them a cordial “Hello,”
and make them feel they are wel-
come. As a rule the rising Sopho-
more class is just coming into its
own and the reaction caused from
the change is not always what it
should be. When we look back to
our first few days on the hill we re-
member more vividly and with great
favor the first man who gave us a
warm hand. Let’s be the first to let
the new incoming men know what
we are here for and what we expect
him to be by starting off right.

The fellow who can’t see anybody
but an old “buddy” when the term
begins to open hasn’t the spirit in
keeping with Davidson, and he
doesn’t rightfully deserve a place
among us. We are making a spe-
cial appeal to you old men to hurry
back a day early or when you do get
here to give the new man a cordial
reception. The regular formal re-
ception will be given at the begin-
ning of the term and we are going to
start the “new year’ out right.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

1922.

The “blanket fee” this year will
cover horse shoe pitching and cro-
quet. College letters are to be given
to the champions in ping-pong and
mumble-peg.

| Read the exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

MAINE STUDENTS GET
BEHIND HOOVER.

: ——_ .

Hoover sentiment at the Univer-
sity of Maine came to the front last
Tuesday in the formation of the
University of Maine Hoover, Club.
The club was formed for the purpose
of crystallizing sentiment favoring
Mr. Hoover's candidacy among the
students and the faculty of the Uni-
versity. The club has received the
official sanction of the National
Hoover Republican Club Headquart-
ers in New York City, who realize
the vital necessity of organizing the
overwhelming popular demand for

r. Hoover in such a manner to
impress the National Republican
Convention next June——The Maine
Campus.

PLAY THE GAME.

If you're feeling disgusted and
down-cast and blue
Keep a smile on your face just the

same ;

Forget all the trouble that’s worry-
ing you,

Play the game.

If you think you’ve done wrong,
then it’s right up to you

To shoulder and take all the blame,

Don’t give up! Be a man! There’s
just one thing to do:

Play the game.

If you’ve made a mistake, keep a
stiff upper lip,

Don’t let your head droop with

shame ;
If you flunked Life’s big Quiz, just
buck up! Take your zip!
Play the game!

COLLEGE RINGS HERE!
NOTE JUNIOR DIGNITY.

There was joy at the N. C. Col-
lege, rings had come. Now they
came to the Juniors that the col-
lege rings had come. The Juniors
have cast off their frivolous, light-
hearted ways and have taken on
those more stately and dignified. —
Carolinian. ;

Where are the D. C. rings?

- CHAPEL FOR MAINE SPIRIT

If there is any one place, any
definite spot which could be called
the birth place of the real Maine
spirit, then surely it must be the
chapel. It is the forum of our
school. Here takes place the inter-

—Technique.__

WHY THE LACK OF CO-OPERATION?

Every now and then in the course of human events things occur
that cannot be understood. It is upon one of these occurrences that
our hardihood prompts us to write because we believe that our stand

is justified.

Six years ago when The Davidsonian was begun the faculty saw fit
to place a dollar charge in the Blanket Fee to cover cost of same. Since
that time the paper has grown from a sixteen column publication to one

of forty or fi

, and in spite of this fourfold increase in size the faculty

has deemed it wise this year to grant a one-fourth increase in the Blan-
ket Fee when we asked for a hundred per cent. If to judge just by the
increased size of the paper, not taking into consideration the advance in
cost of paper and printing in the last six years, it is perfectly clear that
a four hundred per cent increase could have justly been asked. We can-
not think otherwise but that the faculty has acted too hastily in this
matter,

We have worked during the past year to make The Davidsonian a
leading college publication and in accomplishing this goal we have given
to Davidson College the best means of advertisement ever placed at
her disposal absolutely free of charge. We have not broken even on
the year from a financial standpoint, and the only panacea for this is
more income. It will be impossible to increase the number of ads, for
we have too many already, so the only thing to do is to ask for an in-
crease in the Blanket Fee. .

Golf, played by ony a few, gets seventy-five cents increase; The
Davidsonian, read by every student, gets twenty-five. Wherein is it
just? The students would willingly pay this additional charge if given
the chance, but they will not have the opportunity. Why, we fail to un-

lerstand.
_ _ Two courses are left open to us.
into its old rut of undeveloped power, or on the other hand to strive by
the means at our disposal to maintain the high standard attained this
year and even to push on further. We could be rank quitters, knockers,
instead of boosters, but our love for the old college is so great that we
will take the latter alternative in spite of the apparent lack of co-
operation from our superiors. ‘

One is to let the paper drop back

mingling of the members of every
class, fraternity and dormitory. It
is a common shrine, this chapel of
ours, a meeting place where the
every day occurrences are talked
over, new ideas brought up and the
real family affairs discussed—The
Maine Campus.

GRAND AND GLORIOUS FEEL-
ING.

When you cut class and the pro-
fessor fails to call the roll.

When you find a letter from “her”
instead of cobwebs in your box.

When spiders get stung by jack-
ets.
When you find a dime in last years
white ducks.

When your calico writes she will
be here for finals.

When the check rolls in.

When Mr. Dolly puts off a snap.

When something besides hash is
served at the messhall.

When hot water runs at 5 p. m.

—Yellow Jacket Weekly.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

Coach—Why don’t you play base-
ball?

Conscientious Objector—Because
you might want me to steal a base
and I am no thief—Pickled Peppers.

“The man who learns most be-
gins at the bottom.”

“How about. the fellow who is
learning to swim?”—The Emory
Wheel.

Just as the minister’s daughter
comes into the church with her new
sport, the pastor takes his text : “My
daughter hath a devil."—The Blue
Stocking.

I passed her yesterday morning;

Somehow it made my heart beat
faster;

I was filled with a new sensation

Of Joy, of Ambition, of Power,

Dame fortune smiled upon me

For I passed her again

This morning:

Again that same thrill—

I was happy all day

I know not why,

Tonight I ponder:

Was it Fate

Was it Luck?

Will I pass her again?

T doubt it:

—I never passed three quizzes in

succession—The Technique.

Bea Davidson Booster This Summer

SPRING FOOTBALL
PRACTICE BEING
HELD FOR FIRST TIME

For the first time in the history of
football at the University of Maine
we are holding spring training. It
was the opinion of Coaches Rider
and Baldwin that fundamentals of
football should receive more atten-
tion than it was possible to give the
time to last fall, as fundamentals
form the basis of a good team. Ow-
ing to the short period of practice
each night, during the football sea-
son, due to the fact that students
get out of class so late, it is impos-
sible to teach fundamentals as thor-
oughly as should be( and more time
has been necessarily put upon team
Play—The Maine Campus.

The college paper is a great inven-
tion—
The school gets all the fame,
The printer gets all the money
the editor gets all the blame.
—The Red and Black. ome

HARVARD UNIVERSITY TO
START CO-OP PLAN
Prof. Lytle, Formerly of T,
Asked to Organise. ech,

_ Harvard University has inves-
tigated the co-operative plan of en-
gineering education, and will put it
im operation the coming school year.

t will be of interest to friends of
Prof. C. W. Lytle, our former co-
ordinator, to know that Harvard
has requested him to obtain a leave
of absence from the Atlas Under-
wear Company, where he is em-
ployed, long enough to. organize and
put the course in operation in that
college.
