THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

Greenville Woman's College which rendered a very excellent program on the Hill last week.

Dr. Martin Outlines His) C**AT*

Dream of a Greater
Davidson

Equipment and Facalty to be Greatly

Dear Editor:

You ask me to give to your read-
ers my vision of The Future David-
son. I would be rash, indeed, to at-
tempt it, and did I declare the vision
of hope which my heart sees I
would doubtless be declared a rank
dreamer. But having hope so great-
ly stirred within me by the success
of the recent Campaign, whereby
over a half million dollars has been
pledged to the College, I can not re-
frain from an expression of some
immediate advancement which will
be made as soon as these pledges are
converted into cash.

And may I digress far enough to
express the wish that as many as
find it possible will pay their pledges
in full at once without waiting for
the three years to elapse. The Col-
lege can not go in debt and conse-
quently cannot provide the improve-
ments and enlargement so sorely
needed until the money is paid.

Within the next two years I ex-
pect to see a new domitory erecte
which will house at least one hun-

wm:

, |

Photo by Mcllwaine

DAVIDSON CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

iconsciously in the minds of the stu-
dents, which is indicating that our
spirit is not up to our previous mark.
This has been shown in the various
bolshevistic mutterings, lately ob-
vious, and in the lack of interest—
more in some school activities than
in others—which has been manifest-
ed. This lack seems to be derived
from the fact that students are more
and more placing personal interests
above the interests of the school; it
is “What do I get out of it?” not,
“Will it benefit the college.” Such
a condition will have to be remedied,
and a good beginning for the stu-
dent body would be to take more in-
terest in the Greater Davidson Club.

But an improvement in the spirit
of the school will not only help raise
the morals of the students, it will
help bring Davidson back to her for-
;mer place of prestige. The Jast
‘great athletic record made by us
was in 1917, and we must not let this

Though our apparent failure may

er Davidson Club is the one But we
must remember that the honor code
should apply elsewhere in our ac-
tivities as well as on the Hill. If dis-
grace comes to a man, he not only
feels it himself, but his college feels
it; for every man here is a Davidson
man, and the world will look on him
as such, and will characterize the
college by the man.

Thus, in these two things, the
Greater Davidson Club has a very
full program for the future—we
must return to our old Davidson
spirit, and change the attitude of
the college toward our code of
honor.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS HEAR .
CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR

Hon. Robert N. Page Makes Favor-
able Impression on Student Body
and Citizens.

Last Friday night the student
body and the voters of this section

record become too much a memory. had the privilege of hearing the Hon. er Hall.

Robert N. Page. Mr. Page is a can-

have. been due in some measure to/didate for Governor of North Caro-
the teams themselvés, it has been | tina. He has been a member of Con-
_due in great part to the fact that our gress from the Seventh District of

teams have not been sufficiently sup-
\ported. We haven’t had a “pep”
meeting this whole year. One of the

team returned from Washington and

}North Carolina for 14 years and has
jbeen prominent in political as well
as business circles tor a number of

d‘first things heard when the football years.

| After an introductory speech by

dred and fifteen students. One of , Lee last fall, was “Why did you let Dr. Lingle, Mr. Page spoke at length

our alumni,
New York, is drawing the plans. At
the same time a new and enlarged
Heating Plant will be erected, and
the Chambers Building thoroughly
renovated and heated with steam.
The order for the greatly needed
Laundry has been given, the con-
tracts for building and machinery
let.

During this time I expect to see
at least six additional professors ad-
ded to our faculty with homes suf-
ficient for their needs, and al! the de-
partments materially strengthened.

There are other things I expect to
see but I would rather see them
done than boast of them beforehand.

Within a very few years I hope to

“miracle of play that they did not
score many times, instead’ of just
once. It certainly must have been
cheering to the team to be blamed
for losing probably the hardest
fought game of the whole season.
Let us get back that old Davidson
spirit of backing our men—whether
_they be football players or intercol-
legiate debaters; for the very fact
that there are men back on the Hill
who are sticking with them is an in-
spiration in itself.

There are other activities which
‘need the interest which a better
spirit would bring; the literary soc-
ieties, the college publications, the
glee club. And the biggest task

see Davidson College thoroughly! which faces the Greater Davidson
furnished with all the buildings,’ Club now is the immediate and radi-
equipped and faculty to adequately cal improvement in that for which
care for and train five hundred men. Davidson is famous—her spirit.
Let no one be staggered when I say; Another point which is in dire
very calmly that this will require at need of improvement is the attitude
least one and a half million dollarsiof the student body toward our
additional added to the resources of ‘honor system. The student council-
the College. men should not be the only ones to
Whether this shall be done or not report the breaking of the code as
will depend first of all on God’s will seems to be the feeling now; and
and then on the foresight and liber-; the result is that there has been 4

ality of the Church, the friends of!
Christian Education, and the Sons of |
Old Davidson, past and present. |
I am, '
Sincerely yours, |
Wm. J. Martin,
President.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

If you would make your life easy,
make it hard.

gradual let down, and if a man is
not caught he is not disgraced. ,It
has not been so long since several

rominent members of the student

ody were detected cheating on re-
views or exams, and it didn’t take
the students long to ship them in
disgrace. It would be much better
for the college if such were more the
attitude now, and if there is an or-
ganization on the Hill which may

| help create that attitude, the Great-

Mr. R. F. Smallwood, of them get through,” when it was a on the needs of the state at’ this

itime and showed himself to be in fa-

vor of a business administration,
using the laws and methods of a suc-
{cessful business in expending the
people’s money supplied through
taxes, which he believes should be
governed by a uniform rate of tax-
ation with property assessed at its
true valuation.

He spoke strongly in favor of
strengthening the public school sys-
tem by training more teachers and
raising the present teachers’ salaries
in accordance with the other ad-
vances in wages.

He is in favor of an active bureau
of health and the establishing of a

Phonograph

We can save you money. Cash
or easy payments.

MAGNESS & SAIN

301 North Tryon St.

Get our prices.

CHARLOTTE,

aa 207 ?

Brown Brothers’
Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra
feature which will cause your college func-
tion to be gratefully remembered for years
afterwards.

BROWN’S (‘‘the orchestra of distinction’’ )
has achieved a tuneful individuality among
discriminating special leaders of eastern uni-
versities. For engagements, write

D. 8. BROWN.

|
!

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1824 Chestnut Strect
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

“Gig” Shepherd, who entertained
the audience during the brief lapse
of time between the hour set and
‘the actual commencement of the
‘program, dropped out of the game
when “J. Oscar” played his queens.

In addition to the selections by the
entire club, vocal and violin solos
iwere rendered by Misses Brown and

J. Oscar Miller and a club from | Johnston, respectively, which were
Greenville Woman’s College accord-, greeted with thunderous applause.
ed the students of Davidson an un-|‘The readings by Miss Barton were
usual opportunity to hear a musical |offered in a very striking manner.
entetrainment of rare excellence} The game closed with a long con-
when they appeared here in concert|tinued uproar of applause from the
last Wednesday night. appreciative audience.

{GREAT GATHERING GREETS
GREENVILLE GLEE GLUB

Present Excellent Program — Au-
dience Generous in its Applause.

A full hand of queens, with many
diamonds, a joker, a full house on
'the other side and the most exciting
igame of the season was on in Shear-

# %
:
é

7

~~.
aan

hospital in every county gf the state, '

so as to adequately take care of the
well-to-do who may need medical
attention as well as to provide ac-
commodations for the needy. He
says we should have good roads
even if we have to pay for them’
ourselves. But is not in favor of
building roads which would only be
of advantage to a few people, while:
others go unrepaired.

Mr. Page speaks of this time as a
period of reconstruction following
the war and as a means of settling!
the unrest of the industrial world
he advocates greater and freer edu-
cation and more unselfishness for the
people as a whole.

His speech was very forceful and.
without the usual slighting remarks |
about his adversaries which very:
oiten characterize a political speech. |

Before coming to Davidson he!
spoke in Mooresville, and left here|
to fill an engagement at Cornelius.

HON. ROBERT N. PAGE
