Joe | THEDA VI

Ree
EGINS

SONIAN

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. MARCH 4, 1920.

No. 22

JUNIOR SPEAKING JOYOUS AND JUBILANT JUBILEE

SOME SENIORS VIE WITH
JUNIORS AS ORATORS

On Wednesday night the Forensic
Exercises were opened by those Se-
niors who for one reason or another

had not made their Junior speeches. |
The speeches were not well prepared |
and there was evident relief on the:
the speakers’ part when the exer-| Dollar Campaign show $1,004,918

Million Dollar Campaign

Great Success

Million Mark Passed—Final Figures
Yet to be Heard From

The latest figures on the Million

cises came to an end. The speaking | has been subscribed, and still other

was, on account of the small audi-
ence present, held jn the Bible room
and for this reason, too, it was hard
for the speakers to get any interest
into what they were saying.

D. P. Douglass and J. M. Jamison

were perhaps the two best speakers. on the following basis:

contributions are to be heard from.
The amount already subscribed
makes sure the quotas originally al-
lotted to the Presbyterian schools
and colleges of North Carolina.
This money is to be apportioned

N. C. State Captures
Fought Game

Wildcats Start With Great Rush, but
Opponents Too Heavy for Them

State completely outweighed the
Red and Black on Saturday, and
when the Wildcats had been worn
out, forged ahead to victory, 37-19.
For the first 15 minutes it was nip
and tuck, Davidson having a lead of
from five to seven points for the
best part of the time, but time out
was called, and when the battle re-
commenced State gradually worked

Hard/ Juniors Acquit Themselves With

Honor---Would-be Orators Speak
for Once Without Manuscripts

Best Preparation Shown by Students for Many Speakings—Speeches Live
and Animated—“Reps” Announced

Thursday Night. ; Friday Night.

Junior Speaking started off witha] The speakers Friday evening
bang Thursday evening. The open-|Were either fortunate or unfortun-
ing speech by Sample was very typi-!ate. Unlike the rest, they had less
cal of the whole program: it showed! empty benches to speak to. The at-
good preparation and careful mem-|tentive crowd at one time passed
orizing, but the speaker seemed in| 200, which was the largest number

constant fear that he was standing|Ppresent at any one time. Now for

The remainder of the exercise took | Davidson College ---..---- ,000] into a lead which mounted to a score
on more or less the nature of a re-| Union Seminary .----.---- 70.000] of 19-11 at the end of the first half.
sponsive reading.. But by thus per-| Flora Macdonald College--- 200,000/ Ripple was the factor in this lead,
forming, one more obstacle was re- | Queens College ----------- 100,000 and “High-pockets” Streibech was
moved and a diploma seemed just, Peace Institute ~---------- 125,000] sent in to take care of the big for-
that much nearer being a reality. Mitchell College ...-..---- 50,000/ ward. Ripple got six goals in this

Elise High School .-..---- 16,000 period. For Davidson, Romefelt, at

Albemarle Institute --.-..- 16,000 | center, did the best shooting, caging

Baseball Breaks Into Lime-
light This Week

First Call Issued Monday—Material
Very Promising — Nine
Letter Men Back

Glade Valley High School-- 16,000)a pretty one from the center of the
Grove Institute 16,000 | floor just before the end of the half.
Westminster School 16,000] The last half began with another

In addition to her $400,000 from |rush, the Wildcats, somewhat rest-
the campaign, Davidson has good ed, rushing things considerably ; but
hopes of $100,000 from the General again the weight of State put in its
Education Board and has a promise appearance, in Deal the other for-
of $50,000 from an individual, so that ward, who also shot six goals the
she will come out of the campaign at, last half. Davidson’s first goal came
least $550,000 hetter off. | from Roberts, in the center of the

The Million Dollar Campaign in floor, and dictn’t even touch, the hodp.
North Carolina has been under way|!t was duriag this per-od that Hall's
since July 1, and has been under the ankle was sprained, and Ormond, A.
management of Dr. M. E. Melvin,
field representative of the Assem-
bly’s Committee of Church and
Christian Education. The campaign
was originally planned to cover 11
months, but was cut to eight
months, and the fact that it has suc-
ceeded in the shorter time is an ad-
ditional encouragement and an ad-
ditional credit to Dr. Melvin and his
helpers. This is the second big cam-

The crack of the bat sounded its
initial call this week to the scores of
candidates for the 1920 baseball
team. Again we find Sprunt field in
prominence and full of busy life.
With better weather in view prac-
tice will be begun in earnest in prep-
aration for the first game, which is
with Oak Ridge on the 24th of this
month, In view of the fact that this
date is less than a month away,
Coach Hengeveld is as anxious as
the players to get the old limbs loos-
ened up.

Last week saw many of the candi-

then substituted for Brice, and in a
'few minutes the game ended, 37-19
State.

This game was the hardest fought
and scrappiest seen on the home
floor this year, and was witnessed
by the largest crowd yet. For State,
Ripple and Cline did the best work,
jand for Davidson, Romefelt and
Brice. The line-up is as follows:

dates out tossing the ball around|paign that Dr. Melvin has “put|N.C. State. Position. _ Davidson.
even before the official call came, |over.” the other being one for $500,- | Ripple (16)----- RF _ ~ Roberts (7)
giving a little idea of the material|Q00 for Westminster College, inj Deal (14).------ | Hall;

Missouri, when over $600,000 was|Groome (2)_..-- C - - Romefelt (6)
raised. Gurley__--...--- RG ~~ - Brice (4)
Cline (5)------2- LG - - ~ Chalmers

Substitutions — State: Parks for
Cline, Williams for Ripple. David-
son: Striebech for Chalmers, Or-
mond (2) for Hall, Doubles for
Alton Packard to be Here March 13.! Brice. Referee: McAskill (David-

that is now on hand. Even with the
air still biting and the winds a little
cutting the fever is beginning to pull
our student body from cover out on
the diamond.

The prospects are extremely
bright and everyone is expecting the
Wildcats to have not only a fighting

LYCEUM _TO PRESENT
FAMOUS CARTOONIST

C., was sent in for him. Doubles was _

on the wrong foot. Barnette’s speech |
was also of this type. Beattie’s
speech was decidedly the hit of the
evening. The keen witticisms and
biting sarcasms in which — his
speech abounded attracted and fixed
the attention of the audience, while
the speaker very cleverly stripped
Junior Speaking of all its time-hon-
ored glory and held it up for ridi-

cule. His frequent use of campus
»hrases and his occasional! lapses
into the extemporancous added

greatly to the effect of his speech.
Boulware and McKeldin showed ex-
cellent preparation. C. K. Rrown’s
address showed beauty of expression
and delicate poctic phrascology far
in excess of the others.

An excellent musical selection was
then rendered by Freeman, Shields
and Buie. After this the program
was continued by E. Hl. Brown in an
ironical speech on “The Iron Mule”
(tractor). J. S. Brown then deliver-
eda very spirited address on “The
Southern Highlander.” Carter urg-
ed the necessity of early reconstruc-
tion ina very forceful oration. Cas-
sell closed the exercises with a
lengthy discussion of the coal strike
which seemed to interest the audi-
ence very much (probably because
it was the last). Many are hopeful
that our commencement guests will
be allowed the privilege of hearing
Beattie, but this is more doubtful.

Friday Afternoon.

The Friday afternoon section of
Junior Speaking had a very cosmo-
politian array of subjects. They
ranged all the way from “Yamato

but a winning nine. There are nine
letter men back this year who are all
determined to hold their own, and
they will have to work, as the new
ones are pushing hard on their heels.
Currie, Cassell, Johnson, Sample,
McArn, Sutton, Ratchford, Miley
and Richards were on the 1919 squad
and are out again. These men are
all good and with their ability an ex-
cellent team is sure to be developed.

Besides these nine, however, there
are 60 or more new men who are
just as determined and just as full of
scrap. Among these are pitchers,
infielders and outfielders, with even
general utility material.

The battery seems to be stronger
this year than for several seasons.
As for pitchers there are several
men out besides Miley and Currie,
the letter men. Those looking espe-
cially promising are Shepherd, Sor-
rells, Romefelt, Roberts and Justus.
Then besides Johnson, behind the
bat, there will be Wren, Sullivan and
others.

In all there are perhaps 75 who
have answered the call given by
Coach Hengeveld. Incidentally, both
he and the captain stated that they
could see no reason why Davidson
could not put out one of the best
teams in the state this year, and that
they really expected them to do it.

‘to the Volunteer Conference and the! State contest will be held on May 2

son) ; timekeeper: McFadden. Gall j
No Mirai” to “Our Next President.”

H. B. Culbreth opened up with
the subject, “The Inventive Genius
of Young America.” He was fol-
lowed by “Jap” from Japan, with the
ate in securing him at Davidson. His two State Prizes Offered—Final. M eet frst eosspone wnmlered
and humorous. and he is a recogniz- Winner Receives Fifty Dollars. whether it was a “cuss word" or not,’
ed genius with the crayons; he both. ; ; lethe Po ture, fiat CT mane
entertains and instructs and his au-' The national intercollegiate ora- | ¢ u vA ° Japan. Al c ask |
diences all over the country have/torical contest will be resumed this |! Choe, merica, lex “The Unfin,:
been the largest and most appreci-' year after a lapse of several years on| V#S Shown to complete © the Unhn-
ative that any entertainer has! account of the war. The subject of lag Ge ld “The Mz
drawn. Mr. Packard will be here on! the contest will be Peace. The con- | Ke aston Ick ‘ hes c f none
the night of the 13th of this month,-testants are to suggest a plan bY Next Pe sid oe" ‘ c a oded te L O.
and anyone who misses seeing his} which lasting international peace jy" ie Ww C Gaitt ec Pi a
cartoons and hearing what he has to; may be obtained. ; hat “Dili ye a ort elieves |
say will always regret it. This en-! The contest in this state is under ,t@t 1)! att in the. “Tedoer eat.
tertainment coming when it does, on/ the supervision of Mr. F. S. Blair. of | Democracy” " favored . by. NF

the 13th, will add in a large degree: Guilford College. The finals in che! Fricker. .

On the whole this section was well
above the ordinary. In spite of the

An entertainment by Alton Pack- TT
ard is the next number on our Ly-| NATIONAL ORATORICAL
ceum course. Mr. Packard is one of! CONTEST PRELIMINARIES
the leading cortoonists of the coun- TO BE HELD MARCH 10

try today and we are indeed fortun-

ished Volume” of J. M. Dunlap. J.,

enjoyment of the delegates; and in|at a place yet to be selected. The
order to give them all a chance to preliminaries will be held at David-
attend and insure them a good seat|son about March 30. All the con-
each, special rates will be made for; testants are limited to 13 minutes
them and a section of the seats re-, for their speech.
served. The first prize in the State con-
Many of us no doubt have heard|test is $75 and the second prize is
Mr. Packard once and so we at Jeast | $50, so outside of the honor of win-' prize. The first
know the entire success of his en-|ning such a contest there is also ational contest is $5 |
tertainments. All who have heardj| material reward to work for. After Any man can enter this contest |
him spread their knowledge around | the state contest the winner submits!and the more that enter the better
and let’s all turn out and enjoy our-|his speech to a committee and the! chance Davidson has of winning the
selves on the 13th. best speech is given the national|state and national prizes.

speakers got off their speeches with

selves.

prize in the na-

‘small attendance each and all the],

credit to both the college and them- .

* Movies, at 8:30 p. m., Margarete

those who like to speak to empty
benches (and as you know most
Juniors do), this was unfortunate.

Hill was the first speaker of the
evening. He made it plain that
White Coal was the kind to use.
Then “Molecule” Hodgin burst forth
with sudden oratory on the subject,
“The New Dawn.” He pictured it as
being very bright and prosperous.
“Dudley” Howell had his audience
baffled when the subject of his
speech was anounced, “Why not?”
But soon he relieved their spellbound
attention by saying, “Why not have
a business man for our next Presi-
dent.” King follows with a very in-
structive speech about Billy Sunday,
telling of his baseball career and
then of the great evangelistic work
that he is now doing. After this the
Longs had the floor, the first one
being C. G.. who probably gave the
hest advice of the evening, and that
was “Watch Your Step.” Then F.
V. said, “They Shall Not Pass.” He
showed that America had not yet
finished the job, bringing out our
duty to Armenia. The last of the
Longs was J. W., who showed that
the “Knowledge of Electricity” had
grown wonderfully but at that he
failed to tell what it was. The last -
speaker was Meng, who made a
strong appeal for those 12 million
Koreans. He appealed to America
to help her.

Saturday Morning.

The Old South and Its Wonderful
Achievements, As To _ Striking,
shows that The Sting of a Strike, Is
the Queerest Thing in the World,
In The Young Man of Today is
found The Fountain of Youth, and is
brought to the front by The Sun-
shine of Optimism in Perseverance.
Also that The Progress of Astron-
omy helps the Reconstruction,in Eu-
rope, but, Can She Come Back?
Ilowever, Is It Worth While? In
all this, though remember, Lest We
Forget, Lest We Forget. Such sub-
jects as these were the gist of the
Saturday morning speaking.

The exercises were opened by the

(Continued on page 8)

* [re Y ™ *
; CALENDAR.
*

Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.

Friday—Bible Class Teachers’
Meeting, 6:15 p. m.

Saturday Night—Literary Soci-
cties, 6:45. Debate on: ‘“Re-
solved That Policemen, Fire-
men, and Other City Em-
ployees be Prohibited by Law
From Striking.”

*
*
*
*

*

*
*
*
*
*
*

Clark, in The Crucible.
Sunday—Bible Classes, 10 a. m.,

“Y" service, 6:15 p. m.
Monday—Second section of the

Eumenean Literary Society.
* * * & #8 & & wR

wee HERE EEE HE

x

BOOST DAVIDSON, LIVE DAVIDSON AND BE DAVIDSON
