THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN| OpenForum |

The Livect Wire om ths Hill? CHANGE THE POINT SYSTEM.
Several years ago the point sys-

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. _ ig
i i h d Class. tem was put into effect at Davidson
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Secon lass and has so far very efficiently serv-
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: ‘ed its purpose. At the time it was
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. first outlined there was an allotment
made of the points which was con-
_Sidered a just and fair division to
suit the need of that day. Since that

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL. _-_-_-----------------------2-2-+-----22-222-----00 Editor-in-Chief ‘time the conditions on the campus |
J. M. RICHARDS._..----------------------------------5--=------ Managing Editor have undergone changes which’
A. B. ORMOND eet Assistant Maneging Editor Should warrant a corresponding’
i R. DOUBLES...---------.-.----2---2222222-2-2sa2nseennsoeneeee Athletic Editor change in the divisions of the hon-
C.J. MATTHEWS..__..-----------220-2c0-sncnscnsecosnsososccoccen Alumni Editor , ors of the college.

J. © McCASKILL..--.___.--------------------0-2--------2--2 === Exchange Editor Especially has this been found to
}.R BOUEWARE, J Ren-nonnconconcecorcencercerrer encore Or Editor De true since the military depart-
b W. ROBERTS. .--.-----------0--------ennnceneweceenenenee-e¥. M. C. A. Editor ment has become an active feature
HA. HILL. «0-222 ---Social Editor of the college work, Five years ago
J, M. GASTON, JR.--.------------------ “omar iteray Editor no one dreamed that there would
R. R. McILWAINE.--------------------------------+-------- Official Photographer ; oe he any military organization

,on the campus, and for that reason
No provision was made in the point
‘system for the leaders in that phase

REPORTERS’ CLUB

oI . P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD Par
E. x. BOOKER | Me fast A. M. MITCHELL of college activity. If we are to
C. E. CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT B. B. BRITENHIRT ask men to asstime added work and
J. M. GILMER J, W. PHILLIPS W. W. MOORE responsibility in this department,
. C. SUMMERS E. H. TUFTS J.C. WOOL then they should be limited in their

work along other lines.

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, It is the purpose of the point sys-
J#, idson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. nae :

Witkes De Ogden T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. tem to make a division of the out-

Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark. side duties so that no man will have

more work than he can successfully

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: carry on and at the same time give

A. G. OLTMAN...-----,---------------+ 2-202 n en ne nnn nn nn nnn nee Business Manager as many as possible an opportunity
E.A.NASH (ee Assistant Managers for an experience and training not
J. S. CURRY [ ~~ provided for in the regular curricu-
um. It is an injustice to a man to

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: give him more than he can do, and

C. H. LONG........---------.----------- 2-22 -e- wennnnn--- Circulation Manager likewise, it is .an injustice to his

’ C. WOOL.....---------------2--- one-one ene nce ee nee eee Assistant Manager
J.C Ww Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

| EDITORIAL |

If a man were to be judged by the way he keeps his pledge, how many
men of honor would be found on the baseball team?

classmates to be deprived of such
an advantage.

The college is growing rapidly,
providing more men to fill the posi-
tions of responsibility. It should
not be necessary with so large a
student body to overwork any stu-
dent. An expansion of the honor
system to fit the new conditions, es-
pecially in regard to the commis-
sioned officers in the R. O. T. C., has
become necessary. At this time
when our constitution is undergoing
other developments we have an op-
portunity to make this progressive
step and it is hoped that some action
will be taken at once. P.D

We hope since we now have our half millon that the Bird’s Eye.
View of Davidson College in the Bulletin will soon pass from its present
camouflaged state.

Judging from the way a few of the students speak on the campus
one might think that this was a deaf and dumb institute.

May the band blow unceasingly of the merits of Davidson on its

six day trip. FIRE PROTECTION.

On Friday evening of week before
last we heard “Fire,” but it wasn’t.
the usual cause. It was a chimney
burning out in the Phi Hall. It look-
ed like a real fire, but was only a
false alarm. The question was rais-

.ed what would we have done if it
ihad been a fire? Buckets and wash- ,

The biggest crowd at a college baseball game in the history of
Charlotte attended the N. C. State-Davidson contest last Saturday.

We wonder what will happen next!

If Charlotte would support Davidson like the Queens College stu-
dent body it would sure be a Red and Black city Out sisters were in
full force at the game and cheered gamely throughout the afternoon.
Then, as if they had not done enough for us, we were the guests pans would have been our equip-
of a splendid reception at their school. We appreciate this very much,! ent! We have a good tank and
Queens, and may the loyalty of these two institutions grow stronger hydrants at several stations on the
as time goes on. , campus, but they are of no worldly

—_——_ use except to bear the silver paint
AND THE NEW SHALL SERVE YOU. on them, unless we have hose to at-
tach to them. Yes, we have been

HE new staff has now been in service two weeks, and we trust i jortunate that not. ieee ha can re

that our initial efforts have not been unworthy of the past suc-, but per has ne te a , a ' re.

cess of our publication. We do ask your leniency, however, uns ek or wet ene ° a 4 be 0;

til the new men become thoroughly acquainted with their duties be-. sared? geta E Ph van an U € pre-.
fore you see fit to criticise us too harshly. By this we would not have ! pe » Fluribus Unum.

you understand that we do not want criticism, for we do, as construc- ;

tive criticism and advice will never be turned away unheeded. Thus |

we take this means of extending to our readers the opportunity of —

giving us their suggestions and advice in whatever way they believe’ A new organization has recently

will be for the betterment of our paper. . been formed on the hill which will

Perhaps our subscribers are thinking that we are dilatory in mak- be known as “The Diamond Club.’

ing known our plans and purposes for next year, but this is due to the | This club was formed on the 3rd

fact that we have been trying to complete them before making any an-/Of March, 1920. At present it is

nouncement, At this time we think that matters have reache the | holding its meetings in 48 Cham-

stage when we can set before you the things to which we will devote} bers. It is the plan of the organiza-

ourselves in the coming session. , tion to secure a hall on the first floor

Our goal is manifold, yet by no means unattainable.

NEW CLUB FORMED.

The one, of the Eu or Phi Society buildings.

great thing that we must do is to improve the quality of our articles ;. Ane college Is ao crowded for room
that is, to better the style of all write-ups so that they will be as inter- : ganiz not y
‘ ’ been able to rent a room. It is hoped

esting to our readers as possible. To this end we are going to bend all ‘ .
efforts. Also the departments into which our paper was divided by that hey will be able to have a reg:
the old staff will receive more attention than heretofore, for everyone lterm. The charter monbers are
will acknowledge that there is room for improvement. Last but by NO: Holmes, R. W.: Wyman, H. E-: Gil
means the most unimportant is the size of the publication. While! er J 'M. and H aner ‘BOM. Me.
most of our efforts will be expended on the quality of The Davidsonian, | Crary, J “a. and Summers, A c
yet the quantity of it will not be neglected in that beginning next fall have been initiated 0 AA Re
our regular issue shall be one of ten pages. This increase is but a; .
natural result of the era upon which our institution has now embarked. |
The old staff has bequeathed us a paper that has become immense-, GREEN CAPS OR

ly popular and more widely read than ever, and by aid of the plans set NO GREEN CAPS
forth above we will endeavor to the best of our ability to hand it over — . _—

to our successors a bigger and a better paper than as received by us.| The Executive Committee will in
Knowing that we cannot do this task alone, we do earnestly beseech | the near future offer an amendment
our readers that they co-eperate with us in every possible’ way to/or resolution or something to that |
make this goal possible. Remember, the new staff considers itself but | effect, which will provide, we under-
a servant to the students, alumni and friends of our school, and as such | stand, for exemption of all freshmen
we cannot think of any greater service than to devote our time and en- | of 21 years of age or above from
.ergy to an organization whereby we can work for the betterment of|the wearing of the green cap.— |
the reputation, success and honor of old Davidson. Crimson and White. |

ae}
NaN

Read the Exchanges in the “y” Dickinson was forced to cancel.
Room.

THE HONOR SYSTER
WHAT IT STANDS FOR

The Honor System is a form of
student government installed at
Tech by the Faculty, which places
every student on his honor to do
everything that is befitting to a gen-
tleman at all times. This system has
proven to be highly successful at
Tech, and each year it grows
stronger in its operation. New stu-
dents are made familiar with the

Honor System upon entering Tech.

and in most cases splendid adher-
ence to same is shown.

In assuming that every Tech stu-
dent is a gentleman two things dre
meant: first, a student’s conduct
must be that of a gentleman both
around and away from Tech; sec
ond, in all tests and examipations
there should be nothing done that
would be questionable to a gentle-
man’s honor.

In other words every Tech man’s
Honor Pledge is: | hereby certify
on my honor that I have’ neither
given nor received aid on this ex-
amination. A very good addition to
this pledge has heen suggested:
“Nor have !| witnessed any such vio-
lation.”

In case a man is suspected of vid-
lating the honor system he is given
a fair trial before an Honor Court,
made up entirely of the students and
is dealt with according to their de-
cision. In case a verdict of guilty is
handed in a dishonorable discharge
from college follows.—Technique.

TUDENT HONOR.

Whatever may be your private
opinion as to student honor, it is an
established fact that it is a highly
desired quality. Some people think
every time student honor is men-
tioned it means a great amount of
talk concerning cheating on exami-
nations. The student who cheats
on quiz or examination is a liability
to any class and the sooner he or

‘she leaves the campus the better,

for the other students. To the end
that student honor should include
such matters, we agree, but for it to
stop there would mean the loss of
momentum which should be applied
to many more phases of student life.
—Orange and White.

LAFAYETTE WINS DEBATE .
FROM DICKINSON

Lafayette’s negative team, com-
posed of Shotwell, ’20, MacWil-
iams, ‘22, and Chase, '22, met Dick-
inson’s affirmative team on Friday
night and defeated it by, a 2 to 1 de-
cision. The Dickinson team was
composed of Cadwell, leader, Ston-
er and Kinerman. Chaplin Carruth-
ers acted as chairman and the judges
were Rev. Donahue, Phillipsburg ;
Mr. Heiberger, president of the

' Easton Board of Trade, and Mr. C.
iK. Knight. The subject for debate
was: “Resolved, That labor through
: Tepresentatives of its own choice
‘should share in the management of
‘corporate industry."—The Lafay-
ette.

Davdson had made preparations
to debate Dickinson’s team when

t

“ALL STUDENT CLUB”
ORGANIZED

| In a very enthusiastic meeting in
;the chapel on Thursday, March 11,
; the students decided to form a club
iin which every student of the Uni-
versity will be an active member.
.Ths club has many purposes. The
most important of these are the
fosterng of a real spirit among the
‘students, and the bringing of the
students closer together as a body.
This club is a super-club over all
other student organizations and can
accomplish many. desirable .things.
The official name of the club is “The
All Students Club.” Mr. D. G. Stout
; was elected temporary chairman. A
| constitution and by-laws were pre-
sented and accepted with a few
small changes.—Orange and White.

FOOTBALL CHANGES
ARE PROPOSED

A proposal to change the rules of
football so the length of the game
will be regulated by the number of
plays instead of by time, will be
considered at the next meeting of
the football rules committee. The
plan, advanced by Harry R. Coffin,
a Harvard graduate, is said to have
the endorsement of Walter Camp,
Percy D. Haughton and others
prominent in the sport.

The object is to overcome the’
wide variation in the number of
plays in contests directed by dif-
ferent officials and to prevent a
team which is leading from delaying
in order to consume time. Mr. Cof-

fin advocates a 40-play period, with

‘tries for goal after touchdown, and
‘penalties for fouls not counted as
_plays.—Collegiate World.

(Continued on page 6)

$8

HY

ie

rs
oie
LDS 9

Vou smoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe,

because it’s a sweet, mellow smoke.

Follow the old

pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, or more WDC Pipes

on your rack. Smoke a cocl one every time.

know what a real smoke is.
you with several select shapes,

Then you'll

Any good dealer will furnish

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

