THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of 't5
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students ef Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATBS:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

8. HL

OSS PPTUTETITTTTITITITITTTTTITTSTTTI TT TTT r rr Managing Editor
i BOUL WARE, 3. Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK... ~-->-Athletic Filter
FG OMIM (2112s < Baltor
4% Grande... .*** Campus Dditor
L. @. CALHOUN ¥. ‘MC. A. Badltor
A, Li WILSON... cccccccscscsccsccasaceccccsccsceeneeeeceseeeeneenesen cages jai Editor
TZ. M. GABTON, Ir... sccccsvececcnvccesccssesscccccvsscsacsveresecerecuss Literary Baditor
BE. BR. McILWAIND....-..csccccccscssessescsccscscsccseeecs "Official, Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D, L. MAHOOD

B.

R. A. M. MITCHDLL

R B. B. BREITENHIRT

c. M. R. DOUBLES

J. WwW. W. MOORD

J.

A.

for this iesue are: King, A. D.; Manze, G. W.; Ormand, A, P.; Fraser,

a, fiditionsl Reporte nite, Hz Bailey, J. C.; McGuire, E. H-; Ogden, D. H. ; '
C.F) MATTEBIWA.......-cccscscscsccctosnscccssccetececccecseceseesees Business
T, EL. WILGON.......ccccccvccnscnsecsccnscvccccenesssssssssessesersecus Assistant Manager
L. L. McALISTER. Circulation Manager
A. M. MITCHELL... Assistant Managers
C. BH. LONG .uw. wn nnn oe nnn nnn nnn nne nen nen nw ne wn reece enn cee nneeeneeeeneon es Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL | |

Just one more week before the first ball game. Let’s get away to a
good start and have a perfect season.
PGR MF!

Have a little more patience, please, we have only one more issue
before you get a new staff.
—_— the
We hope the Volunteers enjoyed their visit here, fu: we certainly
did their presence.

If they can keep the Lyceum up to the standard of Saturday night

we vote for more Lyceums. .
rR BLE

REVERENCE IN CHURCH CONDUCT.
J than in some former years but although there is a slight im-
provement it is far below what it should be. Among the several

evils that are ; ; ‘
useless. Nowhere will you find such open and inexcusable irreverence

with nothing whatever to provoke it. For a Christian college with a
reputation such as the one which we now enjoy, our conduct in church
is nothing short of a disgraceful shame.

The fact that we are compelled to attend church services has help-
ed to bring on this habit of indifference. This, however, is a result but
not a satisfactory excuse. There is indeed no satisfactory excuse that
can be found for mis-conduct during our Sunday worship. We are not
Cradle Roll pupils, but are supposed to be men with whom the habit of
gentlemanly conduct has been fully cultivated. Neither are we heathen,
but professing Christians with whom respect and reverence for the
House of the Lord should be a natural but inviolable habit.

Certainly no one can complain of the length of our services. Or-

inarily we are out of church, through dinner, and back in our rooms
before the time for the benediction in the average church. Why is it
that we can listen to a professor lecture for fifty minutes without any
apparent fatigue or discomfort and then on the Sabbath are unable to
control ourselves during a twenty minute sermon. The trouble is not
with the preaching nor with the length of the service but is with our-
selves.

Imagine the feeling a visiting preacher must have when during the
course of his sermon he is repeatedly interrupted and annoyed by the
misconduct in the rear. Can he go away with the feeling that the student
body of Davidson is superior to that of any other college? Can he be-
lieve that the Christian atmosphere for which our campus has long
been noted, has not been somewhat exaggerated and over estimated?

The purpose of this discussion is not to bring up the issue of com-
pulsory church attendance, That is an entirely different question con-
certting which it is not within our bounds to express the real opinion
which -we might hold. Our appeal is to the student body of Davidson,
practically a Christian unit, to show the proper interest and reverence
for the church of Christ and for the message of His servant.

HE attention in Church this session has been somewhat better

LOOK AROUND FIRST.

> . ined
‘ YARIOUS things were learned from the delegates who were re-

cently in our midst, some“*things being subject for print and

others perhaps best left untold. One thing, however, was out-
standing, we have a better spirit and a deeper love for our college than
some of our rival institutions. Unless we are well acquainted with
several other colleges this opinion may not be so readily agreed with.
nevertheless the truth is that we have something with which all colleges
are not so generously blessed.

The feeling of dissatisfaction which seems to be spreading among
some of our neighboring colleges should never take root in Davidson.
We would not be considered as progressive if there were not some
changes for which we are strenuously contending but for the present
forget these minor irregularities and consider the big features and
advantages which this college affords.

Perhaps it sounds a little egotistical to claim that we have the best
college there is but since we believe it why not say it, for ourselves at
least? Other college men may not agree with us and would not be show-
ing the proper loyalty if they did. We do not even wish to make com-
parisons but only to_wait until we look around before becoming wor-
ried or dissatisfied. The old reliable testimony of the long list of grad-
uates will make any Davidson man feel proud and desire to further

ecular to Davidson this is one of the most offensive and

[_Open Forum _|

News About Our 1920 Annual.

It has been fully realized by the

Staff and management of the 1920
|Quips and Cranks that we entered
‘upon our duties this year with a
rather unusual condition of affairs
staring us in the face, due to the
fact that the 1919 annual was not
delivered.
’ Surely those of the 1919 annual
staff can hardly be critized too
harshly for this, for without a doubt
it has been proven that their in-
tentions were good. Mr. Gilbert
had the money on hand to pay for
the book and Mr. Love had his
| material sent in, but by some fault
of the express company or in some
‘other way this material was lost or
never reached the printers’ hand. To
make a long story short; it was
handicapped by a misfortune, due to
no one person.

Last fall Mr. Jackson and I wrote
last year’s Senior class asking for a
vote as to whether they wanted to
still try and publish their annual or
run their class in this year’s an-
nual. The majority voted on the
latter alternative, and their class
pictures will appear in the 1920
Book. Then the matter was put
before this year’s class and they
voted likewise.

The entire student body was
made to suffer in a financial way be-
cause of the failure of last year’s
annual to appear, and it is nothing
‘but fair that they know where this
money went. It is not the pur-
pose of any one connected with our
annual to use one cent of the money
; from any man in the student body
;in any way than that necessary to
publish the Book, and in order to
give the men who put their money
into our hands some light upon the
question “where has our mone
gone?” the management this
year will publish a complete financial
statement as soon as the annual this
jyear has been delivered, which will
be about May 15. This statement
will include the amount received
from the 1919 annual, Also cost of
production of 1920 Quips and Cranks
and money taken in and paid out
this year.

It is our purpose to relieve the
men of the student body of the idea
that by some means their money is
hitting a mysterious trail.

Harry B. Brown.

1 Wonder If We Could?

Were you ‘at chapel the other
morning? I got there just as they
started the doxology, and it sure
sounded good to hear the old music
again. Tremain,’Freeman, and the
rest of the five piece orchestra must
have “framed up” on us for they
were certainly giving us real music
that morning. I’ve forgotten who
was conducting the service but he
was thoughtful and read loud
enough for all to hear. But it isn’t
hard to hear now for you know we
are using the “daily readings ” of
the Sunday school iesson and most
of the fellows take this time to
study up on the lesson. Buck Currie
had selected “Beulah Land” for our!
hymn, and with the help of his!
quartette, we made the pink rafters |
ring. I couldn’t help but agree with |
David that “it is good to sing praises |
unto the our God, for it is pleasant,
and praise is comely.” If the “Lord’s’
Prayer” had been written for the
occasion it couldn’t have suited bet-
ter nor been more heartily used. No
wonder the breakfast tasted un._|
usually good that morning and
classes seemed a little more interest- ,
ing. I wonder if we could! !

Cc. L. M.

DR. ARBUCKLE ADDRESSES
THE CHARLOTTE Y. M. C. A.

Dr. Arbuckle made a very inter-
esting talk at the regular meeting
of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Sunday
afternoon. The subject of the talk,
“The Four Square Christian,” was
taken from Proverbs, in which Solo-
mon spoke of the wisdom of the ant,
the spider, the conies and the lo-

that spirit amongst us which we all feel whether we realize it or not,|custs. The talk was enjoyed by a

that Davidson has the spirit and has the proper stuff to back it up.

large number.

EXCHPHGS
Oy

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

Girls Can’t Powder Noses.

Shiny noses are to be the rule
rather than the exception at the
University of Denver. The dean of
women has ruled that girls shall not
use powder puffs in public. First,
because standing in front of the
mirrow wears out the rugs, and
second, because it is not dignified
for the girls to be seen by the men
powdering their noses. —Ex.

Why Is It?

An increase this year of less than
two per cent in enrollment in nine
strictly women’s colleges, but a gain
of twenty-two per cent in women
enrolled in co-educational institu-
tions is shown by a Boston Tran-
script writer. Smith college with
1998 students is the largest women’s
college in the world, with Wellesley
and Simmons second and third. But
the U. of California has 3983 co-eds,
North-western 2685, and Boston and
Wisconsin 2368 apiece —Lawrentian

Faculty Decides Question _
Of Service Men’s Numerals.

Diplomas of service men who have
missed a year or more of work at
the Institute will bear the numerals
of the recipient’s original class, ac-
cording to a decision reached by the
faculty Wednesday.

The ruling of the faculty provides
that all men who were in federal
service and have their discharge
papers, and who left the Institute in
good standing, shall, on graduating,
be recommended “as of” the class
with which they entered the Insti-
tute. The provisions are applicable
not only to the Class of 1918, but to
all men who failed to graduate with
their class because of military ser-
vice.

The faculty believes this action to
be favored by most of the men af-
fected—Mass-Tech.

University of Nebraska.

The students of the University of
Nebraska have added “coal mining”
to their curriculum. Nearly four
hundred of them have been working
in the mines of Nebraska and the
neighboring states, in order to re-
lieve the coal famine.—Ex.

(Co-Ed. Wins National Oratorical

Honors.

For the first time in American
college oratory a woman has won
an intercollegiate oratorical contest.
Twice before have women achieved
to national contests, but this is the
first time that one has actually
walked away with the honors. Miss
Margaret Garrison of Williamette
University, Oregon, was the victor

M

economy in a good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and
more, A special seasoning process makes the genuine French

briar bowl break in sweet and mellow.

'

Packard Presents Pleas-
‘ing Program

Large Audience of Students and Dele-
gates Delighted by Cartoons,
Songs and Jokes

Alton Packard furnished the best
Lyceum number given at Davidson
this year on last Saturday night. He
delighted his audience with a splen-
did exhibition of cartooning, snappy
songs, jokes and humorous lecture.

Packard’s series of cartoons de-
picting different types of American
men and women were especially well
received. The excellent color car-
toon “American Home Ideals” clos-
ed his program. The last number
was very impressive.

The songs given were mostly of
a dialectic type and judging them by
the encores they received were ex-
tremely popular. Mr. Packard was
very generous with his encores, one
of his songs, he said, contained 935
verses and he gave as many of them
as the audience wanted—'most all
of ‘em.

Taken as a whole Saturday night's
Lyceum was all right. Everybody
enjoyed it and Davidson would give
the ‘cartoonist a hearty welcome
were he to return.

—=—————————————

in National Oratorical Contest of
the Intercollegiate Prohibition As-
sociation. She won over 6 inter-
state winners, who had already been
victors over 1500 orators from 300
colleges. Miss Garrison won the
dicission by one point, and was
awarded a cash prize of $100.

R. O. T. C. Voted Down by Vandy
Students.

The students of Vanderbilt Uni-
versity voted practically unanimous-
ly to petition the faculty to either
abolish the R. O. T. C. or else make
it optional. There were only two
dissenting votes cast.—Vanderbilt
Hustler.

Winter Carnival at University of
Maine.

The faculty and students of the
University held a winter sports
carnival last week. There were ten
events including snowshoe races,
ski races and ski jumping.—Maine
Campus.

What Do Students Read.

Contrary to the general impres-
sion college students do not gather
all their literary knowledge from
“Snappy Stories” and “The Red
Book.” A survey has been made at
the University of Washington to
determine what magazines were
most popular. “Life” led with 82 p.
c. of the votes cast, and “The Amer-
ican” was second with 69 p. c. Prac-
tically every ballot contained the
name of a scientific, business or
political magazine.

C. B. Fetner, ex-’12, has been ap-
pointed deputy clerk of the U. S.
Court of the Western district of N.
C., with headquarters at Charlotte.

OST men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking.
There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and

Pick a good shape

at your nearest dealer's, at your price.

We.

WORL

DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

O'S LAROEST MAKERS ort ring PIPES
