Den’! Miss
the
Copperhead

THEDAVI.

SO

IAN

ATCH
ILDCATS

ALLOP
AKE FOREST

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VI.

Y SELECTS NEW
STUDENT BOD CURRIE

ONTHOSEN PRESIDENT

The Student Body at its annual
election, held last Monday, chose A.
L. Currie president for next year.
For this office there were three oth-
er nominees, over whom “Buck
took the decision on the second bal-
lot. L. W. Dick, from the rising
Junior class, was elected one of the

vice-presidents, while Cornelson and |

J. P. Price received an equal num-
ber of votes for the other vice-presi-
dency. W. S. Shepard took the of-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON N. C.. APRIL 15, 1920.

Big Hit

Excellent Program Enjoyed by Large

; Audience

t

(year was rendered Friday night by
the Mitchell College Glee Club.
Dressed in white, they presented an
irresistible picture and from the first
{the audience was captivated. Nearly

' One of the best and most enjoy-
able concerts given on the Hill this |

Mitchell Glee Club Makes Governor T. W. Bickett

Delivers Inspiring
Address

“Standard of a Man's Life” Subject
of Speech Before the Y. M. C. A.

Before an audience numbering
isome 500 people, Gov. Thomas W.
Bickett delivered an address last
| Sunday on the subject, “The Stand-
‘ard of a Man’s Life.” The meeting
/ was held in Shearer Hall and prac-

|

CAROLINA GAME.

In an interesting contest staged
at Cone Park, Greensboro, the Wild-
cats met their first defeat df the
season, the gods of luck being with
.the University of N.C. who wrest-

Carolina and State College Win by Close

Score---Furman Decisively Defeated
Shepard and Currie Pitch Great Ball—Team Shows Improvement in Batting

asurer.
Fee ne election. ane place immedi- to hear the concert and the lack o
ately after chapel Monday morning. ‘inspiration, caused by empty
benches, was not present.

Presi McAlister presided, and ;
the ie oess before Phe Student’ The program opened with a song
Nody was at once entered upon, by the whole Glee Club, followed by
Printed ballots giving the names of:a_ soprano solo by Miss Marion
the candidates were used, and each’ Moore. This number was especially
student was required to sign his bal- , good and was applauded long and
lot in accordance with the recently | vigorously. Following this Miss
adopted constitution. Clark gave a reading, a_ selection

pom Bulwer-Lytton's | an Last
e ° ays of Pompeii,” entitled “Glaucus
Splendid Banquet Enjoyed

by Sophomore Class

to the Lion.” Next on the program
was a solo, “Ye Banks and Braes,”
by Miss Bessie Smith. After this
came a piano solo by Miss Melissa
. Warlick, who rendered “Rigoletto,
Biggest Event of Soph Year Celebrated Paraphrase,” with fine tecnique and
in Fitting Style considering the length of the piece

and the fact that she did not have

Fridal night, April 9, was an im- her music in front of her, her per-
portant date in the history of the, formance was thought wonderful.
present Sophomore class. Shortly The Glee Club then sang a group of
before 7:30 the boys began to con- songs: Swing Song, The Mill, and
gregate in the lobby of the Selwyn Can’t Yo’ Heah Me Callin’. They
Hotel, and in a few minutes word were encored twice and for the first
came that dinner was served. Forty- one of the encores they made the
five members and guests of the strumming of the imaginary banjos
class of '22 immediately found their seem so realistic that the audience
way to seats at the long table in the , wanted them to repeat the selection.
rear part of the dining room, and, Varie No. 6, De Beriot, a violin
after a short invocation by Dr. J. solo, played by Miss Ruby John-
M. McConnell, all were seated. The son, met with much applause and
table was decorated in the class she was called back to play again.
colors, purple and gold, by Mr. A different piece, “The Waltz Song,”
Cecil H. Gilchrist and Miss Mildred full of runs and trills, was sung by
Barbour, both of Charlotte. The| Miss Bristol with ease and smooth-
first half-hour was quickly consum- ness that spoke of natural talent
ed in consuming the well-selected and long practice. The quartet,

ithe whole student body turned out
|

courses which were served.

Mr. Walter I. Knox, acting toast-
master for the occasion, then began
the more serious part of the enter-
tainment. A warm welcome was
extended to all the guests present,
and then the men pushed back their
chairs and prepared to listen to the
opening address by the logacious
Knox. “Mr. Toastmaster” excused
himself, however, saying that
George Cornelson had stolen his
notes. Mr. Cornelson was then call-
ed upon to speak, The advantages
enjoyed by and the opportunities
open to this class were forcibly pre-

sented, and everyone was urged to,

make the best of his time. The
necessity of cultivating a spirit of
unity in the class was shown, and
especially more united efforts in the
line of athletics. Mr, Cornelson was
followed by Mr. C. A. Dunn, of the
Davidson Band.

Frank Hall, President of the Sen-
ior class, then, in a few well-chosen
words, commended the excellent
spirit shown by the class of ’22, and
expressed a desire to see this spirit
pervade the entire student body and
to aid especially the Greater David-

composed of Misses Terry, Brady,
Smith and Smith, told us all about
Ithe Whip-po-Will. Following this
‘was a reading by Miss Deal, “How
the La Rue Stakes Were Lost.” This
was a fine number and one had only
to shut his eyes to picture the race
;and the brilliant finish, so well was
it given.

“Barcarolle” was sung by the Glee
Club, followed by “A Mitchell Col-
lege Song,” this concluding a very
delightful program. The personnel
of the club included eight sopranos,

six altos, two readers, a pianist and.

violinist. To the leader of the or-
ganization, Miss Amy Ward, be-

performance of her proteges.

BAND TAKES SIX-DAY TRIP.

The R.:O. T. C. Band is now on a
_trip thru South Carolina. The sched-
ule was not complete when they
‘left, but as nearly as could be learn-
ed, they plan to give concerts at
Rock Hill, on Monday; Fort Mill,

‘longs much of the credit for the fine :

° : ‘ed a victory from the Wildcat ag-
tically the entire student body as pregation by one lone tally, the fi-
iwell as a large portion of the towns- nal score being 3 to 2, |
people were present to hear the! “Havidson took the field with
tates’ chief executive. Following Shepard and Wrenn as the battery.
ja musical program, Governor Bick- Shepard was slow in finding the
ett was introduced by Mr. Miles. range and issued free passes to the
first two facing him, thus filling the

corners, The fourth man at bat
hit a grounder to Cassell, E.. who
forced out the runner in home, but
still left the hassocks crowded. The
next batsman up = rolled out a
grounder ‘to “Frog” Cassel who
caught another going for the plate.
At this time the Davidson support-
ers in the grandstand cheered lusti-
ly for the Wildcats for it seemed
that Shepard was working himself
out of a bad beginning. However,
the next man up was given free
transportation, forcing in the first
tally of the game. Shepard then
tightened up and made the next bat-
ter whiff at three.

Llewellyn, on the mound for U.
N.C. walked I’, Cassel, lead off man
for the Wildcats; Ratchford, next
up, rolled a grounder to the mound,
forcing Cassel out at second. Shep-
ard drove one out to center, advanc-
‘ing Ratchford to the second station.
Then Shepard was caught off first.
Richards struck out, ending the first
frame.

Carolina’s second score came in
the second inning. The first bats-
man for U. N.C. reached first on a
clean one to center. He advanced
to second on a wild pitch and then
stole third. The next batter hit to
center, scoring the second tally.
Shepard fielded = =McLean’s — hot
grounder to second, F. Cassel re-
. ceiving the throw and relaying it to

The governor opened his speech first, caught McLean hefore he
by stating that it gave him the reached the initial bag, thus making
greatest of pleasure to appear he- | the only double play of the day.
fore such a large body of college’ After this Shepard allowed no more
; boys, the coming citizens of the free passes and pitched an exceed-
| State and nation. The speaker said ingly good brand of ball. His work
,that he did not like to talk politics with the stick also featured.

;and would never do so if the repub- ‘The Wildcat’s first tally came in
‘licans would only behave. Politics the third session when E. Cassel
is no cure for the evils of the world, drove one to left field. Poe follow-
which are now to be seen in the ‘ed the good example with one in the
‘state of unrest, discontent, and dis- same direction. McArn drew a free
satisfaction existing everywhere. trip Alling the corners. Crawford
After naming over some fj grounded one to third, forcing Cas-
the many different ways which! sel out at home. Carolina’s catcher
have been suggested as a remedy! attempted to catch Crawford off
for this condition, Governor Bickett! first, but the first sacker evidently
said that there was but one sure not a Tar Baby product, allowed
way. That is for men to become the spheroid to triple thru his fin-
saturated and permeated with the gers, while Poe gleefully galloped
teachings of the Ten Command- across the plate with the Wildcat’s
ments qnd the Sermon on the! first marker.
Mount. Living up to such ideals Carolina’s concluding tally came
‘would again place the nations of.in the ninth when it seemed that

a]

the earth at peace within and with-.
out.

things would be tied up for a while, °

but luck broke against the Davidson

Milton ss .._ 2. 41101 0
Lowe Ib .2_.__ 302601
Llewellyn p ---- 4 0 2 6 5 2
30 3 62711 4

Davidson AB RH POAE
Cassel, F. ss _--. 4 1 1 3 3:0
Ratchford 2b -..5 0 2 3 1 0
Shepard p .----- 3 0 210 4 1
Richards ef .-.-. 300000
Wrenn ¢ ____-_- 401212
Cassel, E. 3h --2 3 0 2 160
Poe If .2 eee 412000
McArm Ib 2-2 1o008g: 00
Crawford rf --. 4 00000
‘ 3121027 15 3
Score by innings R.H.E.

U.N. C. ~---110 000 010—3
Davidson ~.-000 001 001—2

Summary—Two-base hits, Lowe,
Younce; sacrifice hit, Shepard:
stolen bases, McLean, Ratchford,
Poe: struck out, by Llewellyn 6:
by Shepard 10; bases on balls, off
Llewellyn 4; off Shepard 4; hit by
pitcher, Llewellyn 2, Shepherd,
Richards ; double plays, Shepherd to
I. Cassel to McArn; hits, oft
Llewellyn 10: off Shepard 6: wild
pitch, Shepard 2; left on bases, Car-
olina 6; Davidson 11; time of game,
two hours and 20 minutes, Umpire,
Carroll; Attendance 250.

N.C. STATE GAME.

The Wildcat nine fell before
Murray's benders on Saturday of
last week, and lost their second
game of the season. N. C. State
turned the trick in a close and ex-
citing game, by the score of 2 to 0.
With two on in the second inning,
‘Faucette connected onto one of
Shepard’s offerings and slammed
the ball to left-center for double,
driving in a brace of runs, cnough
i toowint,.

The game aws a pitcher’s duel be-
‘tween Murray of State, and Shep-
ard of Davidson. Both twirlers put
cut an excellent brand of stuff and
‘displayed a weird and varied assort-
»ment of benders. Honors were
;about even with a slight shade in
i favor of the Teck artist. He allow-
ed only four hits, one only going for
an extra base. The remainder were
kept well scattered. Seven hits were
‘gardened off of Shepard, but three
were of the fluke type. Bunched in
the second inning however, three of
them spelled defeat for the Wil-
mington lad. Murray sent 8 back
ito the bench via the strike out
route, while Shepard caused 7 to
whif, Murray walked 3, and Shep-
‘ard passed 2,

The features of the game, were

(Continued on page 2)

-_ =

* e *£ & kk

* WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE

+

* Thursday—Davidsonians arrive
7:00 STAFF MEETING.
Friday—7:15 Bible Class Lead-

¥

¥

on Tuesday; before the American ~ One manner in which a man can‘
‘Legion of Lancaster, on Wednes- keep tab on his standards of life is
day; Camden, on Thursday, and to follow the example set by large;
class, J. R. McKeldin, won the Chester on Friday. They will re-' mercantile establishments, in which
hearts of the Sophomore by saying | turn to the campus on Saturday. the rating department is called upon
that this was one of the best ban- There are about 25 men on the to find how good is the credit of a:
quets that he had ever attended, and | trip in all. Besides the regular band Prospective cutomer, by keeping a
that ’22 had really “put it over” ’21| members, there will be a quartet tating department in our own can
in this respect. ‘from the Glee Club, and of course, to tell us which things are worth’
“Rifle Rest” Clark then related a, Carl Cathey will go. There will while in our lives and which are not.
humorous story. After this F. M. also be a mandolin and guitar trio. _, The governor was of the opinion
Cassel, President of the Freshman Dunn is managing the party and: that a young man without a vision |
class was called on. “Frog” acquit-; making the necessary business ar- | Wa5 an object for pity. He said that
ed himself well, and was followed|rangements, while D. R. Freeman Practically everything accomplish-
(Continued on page 8) jis directing the musical side. an (Continued on page 8) |

son Club.
After a few words by Harold Mc-
Keithen the President of the Junior

contingent. ers’ Meeting.

a

Saunders, playing for U. N. C. * Saturday—3:30 Davidson vs
made a pair of brilliant catches, * Wake Forest, Sprunt Field. *
which robbed the Wildcats of more * 7:15 Literary Societies. 8:30 *
than one tally. E. Cassel’s work,;- “THE COPPERHEAD.”
with the stick featured, getting two * Sunday—10:00, Bible Classes.
hits our of three trips to the plate. * 6:00. Y. M.C. A. Meeting.

The box score: * Monday—7:15 Eu Society.

U.N. C. AB RH POA E,* Tuesday—3:30 Guilford vs *
Saunders cf --..2 0 0 2 1 0 * Davidson at Guilford. 7:15 *
McLean 2b .__. 300 62 0|* Fresh Soph Debate. Shearer *
Feimster 3b --..3 100 1 O!* Hall. .
Graham rf -__... 41020 0|* Wednesday—3:30 N. C. State *
Younce c --__... 401 2 1 0* vs Davidson at Raleigh. *
Wilson lf ------- 3003 0 1% * * 8 Bae eu OF « -

THROW AWAY Your HAMMER and Get a HORN. Bea BOOSTER
