THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

“

COME THE CHRISTIAN LEADERS OF T

.

can furnish, multiplies its value a hundred fold, and returns it to the Church in a life-giving
consecrated leadership.”--Dr. Henry Louis Smith.

’

A RECORD OF WHAT DAVIDSON HAS ACCOMPLISHED
WITH YOUR SUPPORT EVEN GREATER THINGS CAN BE DONE

FOOTBALL RECORD. gridiron has been due to the su-
perior coaching of Fetzer and Cray-

At the end of each year when we ton. The latter having resigned this
look back upon the history of the| year, it becomes necessary to pro-
gridiron season, it is with a feeling; vide another for the .approaching
of pride that we review the wonder-| season. Scarcely is there a more

by a 10 to 0 score, but were praised
highly by the big leaguers. A. &
I. then proceeded to romp off with
a 4 to 0 victory, closely followed by
Elon, who trounced the Presbyte-
rians 3 to 1. On the following day

27 4-5 seconds against the world’s
record of 23 3-5 seconds.

“Jim” McQueen, better known
than any of the above men to the

MEDITATIONS FOR THE NEW YEAR

May this day and all the days of the

present student body, holds the high| New Year bring to you and all those
jump record. “Jim” cleared the bar] who are dear to you the sunshine of

important office at Davidson, and it

the Wild Cats won their first game /at 5 feet 11 inches. The world's rec-' happiness —Richard Brooks.

ful record that Davidson has made. |
The name of the Wild Cats has be-!is sincerely hoped that the right
come a familiar term in football cir-} man can be found and will be secur-
cles. The Yellow Jackets of Tech| ed at any cost. Stars of all-Southern
have learned to fear them and the! and even of ‘all-American calibre
Tigers of Auburn have been forced| have been developed at Davidson.
to bite the dust before their terrific| Everywhere people know what to
onslaught. The “scrappiest bunch in| expect of a Davidson team and if we
the universe,” is the term applied by| are not to fall short of our expecta-
all sport writers. A brief review of! tions a man. of exceptional ability
the last few seasons will show that {must be given the leadership in ath-
the enviable reputation of the Red | letics.

and Black is well deserved.

In 1916, N.C. State, Clemson,
Roanoke College, and others, went
down. in defeat by a healthy margin,
while Ga. Tech., North Carolina, and | tivities at Davidson during the past

BASEBALL RECORD.

the University of Virginia were held: two years would indicate that ac-|

to a very close score.

‘cording to the dope, this should be
1917 was perhaps

the greatest a banner year for the Wild Cats.

by a 2 to 1 score. The U. of Va.
next fell before “Railroad” Clark's
benders and were shut out 5 to 0.
The Easter trip thru Carolina was
disappointing, the, team losing the
majority of its games by one run,
and all games going to extra in-
nings. N.C. won by a 4 to 3 score
in 15 innings. Elon next won by a
2 to 1 score in 13 innings. Trinity
was the next conqueror, the Meth-
odists coming out with the Jarge end
ofaGto2score. A. & F. put across
an 8 to 3 victory, and Trinity finish-

,in 12 innings.

Clark was the mainstay of the
pitching staff, with Currie and Miley
lalternating. Weak hitting account-

inches.
Wooten, ’96, was the first David-
son man to have the honor of hold-
ing two local records at the same
time. He holds the broad jump rec-
ord with a leap of 22’feet. This is
12 feet 7 1-4 inches behind the rec-
ord. His other record, the pole
vault, is 10 feet 10 inches. In this
event, he is 2 feet 4 1-2 inches be-
phind the world's record.
Brand, °19, hokls the Red
Black record for the 2 mile.

and
He

A brief summary of baschall ac-;¢d the. slaughter by winning 2 to L. completed this in 10 minutes and 10

;seconds flat. The world’s record is
19-minutes 17 1-5 seconds.

Grey, ‘18, better known to ws. as
“Hugh,” is the only other holder of

. . . . 7 * we a ”
year which a Davidson team has had After completing a very successful ed for the poor showing of the team. | two local records. “Wooley” push-

in several decades. The largest season in 1918, the Red and Black: The prospects are better this year, ed the 16 pound shot thru the air for | which I should

. . . <4! ‘, : ieta . vo The ,
score which had been made on Ga. fell into a slump last spring, and did and Davidson should turn out an-,@ distance of 38 feet. The world’s
Tech. for a period of four years was not finish the season quite so well. other of the old Wild Cat teams un- record is 51 feet, only 13 feet better.

chalked up against the greatest
team the Golden Tornado has ever of the Southern States, playing some
put out. Auburn, after tying one of of the biggest college teams of this
the leading teams in the Northwest,' region and came home with the
was defeated by a score of 21 to 7. bacon. Opening the season with Le-
Other notable victories included the noir, the team won in a walk by the
defeat of V. M. 1, Clemson, Wake! score of 5 to 1. Then the nine. left
Forest, Wofford and others. on its invasion of the South. In

The following fall, handicapped two games with U. of S.-C. the Wild
by the restrictions placed by the S.,Cats split even, losing by a 2 to 1

In 1918 the, Wild Cats made a tour

der Coach Ilengeveld.

TRACK RECORD.

With the nearing of track season,
eyes are turned to the promising
material that’ Davidson will have
back this year. Whether or not any

_of the college records will be broken

His second record is in the discus
throw. He tossed the plate for 111
feet. The world’s record is 146 feet
, 10 1-4 inches.

These are the only events in
which a record has been kept, of lo-
-cal cinder path activities. Most
notable among these, as can be seen,
are the records of Mattison in the
100, Huie in the hurdles, Wooten’s

A. T. C., only three college games count and winning 5 to 3. Univer-'! remains to be seen. In its history, records in the broad jump and pole

could be played, two of them result-! sity of Georgia was the next victim
ing in victories for Davidson, while! by an 8 to 3 score: Ga. Tech fell be-
the third was lost on a muddy field. fore Hengeveld’s benders by the
For the first time in several years, score of 7 to 1, but in an attempt to
North Carolina was numbered win a double header, “Dutch” lost

‘the Red and lack has turned out
{some stors on the cinder path and
_ their records will be hard to beat.

Jn the running events, Davidson
men have missed the world’s record

ivault, and Grey’s 16 pound shot put.
Mattison’s record in the century is
lespecially noteworthy, this being

‘only 1-5 second behind the world’s ,

,fecord.
No record ‘of the college has been

ord for this event is 6 feet 7 5-16.

To work to help and to be helped, to
flearn sympathy through suffering, to
‘learn faith by perplexity, to reach truth
through wonder—hehold! this is what it.
is to prosper, this is what it is to live —
Phillips Brooks.

Put out of your thought the past
whatever it may be; let. go even the
future with its golden dream and _ its
high ideal; and concentrate your soul
‘in this burning, present moment. For
the man who is true to the present is
true to his best; and the soul that wins
the ground immediately before it. makes
life a triumph.—Ozora Stearns Davis.
' Resolved, to live with all my might
iwhile | do live; resolved never to tose
one moment of time, but to improve it
in the most profitable way I possibly
‘can; resolved, never to do anything
despise or think meanly
of in. another; resolved, never to do
anything out of revenge; resolved, never
‘te do anything which | should be afraid
lta do if it were the last hour of my fife.

Jonathan Edwards

]
ry

waeedwatesccsscesced

Oteccc cnn cceensnsstcesescwewcsensccenceees

Brady Printing Co.

Statesville, N. C.

The College Printers

among those conquered. The other through errors on the part of the in- by fractions of a second. Mattison,
defeat was handed to Washington field by a 6 to 1 score. Oglethorpe '’I7, reeled off the 100 yard dash in
and Lee, the present champions of University bowed down to the Wild 9 4-5 seconds, only 1-5 second be-
the Southeast. Cats to the tune of 5to 2. This was hind the world’s record. Gilchrist,

In 1919, with very few of the old the first time Oglethorpe had played "15, made the 220 in 23 seconds flat.
stars back, but with promising ma- inter-collegiate ball, and they put! The world’s record for this even is
terial from the Freshman class, a. up a wonderful fight. After split-'21 1-5 seconds. In the quarter.
very satisfactory season was added ting even with Wofford, losing an Steele, '96, crossed the tape in 52 1-5
to the Wild Cats’ fame. Although 8 to 1 game, and winning a 4 to 2 seconds, exactly 5 4-5 seconds be-
not in every case were the scores one, Davidson ended the season by hind the world’s record. Stockhard,
favorable to Davidson, there was no triumphing over U. of S. C. by the ’05, ran the half in 1 minute and 59
cause for disparagement in any ;close score of 3 to 2, in 11 innings. seconds. This is only 6 4-5 seconds
game. Facing one of the hardest! This was Hengeveld’s last game, behind the fastest time made in this
schedules of any team in the South,! which ended when King drove a event by the world’s holder of the

broken in over two years now, and
this season’s athletes will have a
good opportunity to make a name.
for themselves. However, the above
records are on a favorable compari-
son with any college in Davidson’s
class, and the records are going to
be hard to lower.

(Debating Record will be found on
page 11)

lf you want good printing
and quick service, BRADY
IS THE MAN TO DO ;
IT.

rrrryryry rye rrr ttt eye er rrr yer ry yyy rere

Drawing the Line.
The Chairman—Don't you think, gen-
_tlemen, in view of the high cost of liv-

they met and defeated Wake For-, three-bagger to right, and scored on
est, Furman and Guilford by a mar- | an error.

gin of several touchdowns. The, The masterful pitching of Henge-
wonderful Washington and_ Lee, veld, Clark and Currie was respon-
eleven, champions of the South,| sible for many of the D. C. victories.

were held to a_ lone _ . touchdown,
while Georgia Tech, North Carolina
and the other opponents were shown
a characteristic Davidson scrap.

A great deal of the success on the

Currie returned for another year.
The 1919 season opened with a

game against the Phillies, in Char-

lotte. The Wild Cats were tamed

_record. The time of Brand, '19, for
the mile is 4 minutes 47 1-2 seconds.
The world’s record in this event is
4 minutes 12 3-5 seconds.

In the hurdles, Davidson records

not so good in the 220. Huie, '01, did
the former in 15 3-4 seconds, only 1
second behind the world’s record.
Thompson, '13, made the latter in

ing, we ought to increase our pastor's -

salary?
Vestryman—That's all right. But
don’t pay him for overtime on sermons.

Hengeveld graduated but Clark and| compare favorably in the 120, but |—Life.

The world acknowledges Christ's com-
ing by the changing date of each new
year.

ORDERS SOLICITED

ATTHECOMMISSARY

"Seweees. Sesnn.

re

16 Chambers

1
i}

|
