CLASS
BASKETBALL

° FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII.

CAPT. HEARN TO RECEIVE
PROMOTION SOON

Captain Hearn, commandant of the
R O. T. C. unit. has successfully passed
the examination for promotion and will
be given the rank of major as soon as
the first vacancy occurs.

The many friends that he has made
in his two months’ stay on the Hill will
be pleasantly surprised to learn of his
promotion. While all recognize his ca-
pabilities, they also know that promo-
tions at this stage are hard to get and
an officer must be of the first order to
he even considered.

The commission. when it comes, will
probabty date back to July 1 of this
year. The date is not certain, but the
promotion is almost certain, as the cap-
tain stands number 291 out of a list of
409 vacancies.

Through his experience at West Point
and in the world war Captain Hearn is
well qualified to hold down anv position
the government may entrust to him. The
students offer him alt the possible best
wishes and congratulate him on his good
tuck.

D.

Juniors and Seniors Open

Class Basketball

Strenuous Race Expected for Cham-
pionship Honors

The interclass basketball schedule will
get under way on Friday. As an opener
the yuntor-Senior battle on October 29
will be a corking good battle. The sched-
ule has been arranged and the teams
been at practice for some time. By the
time for the first whistle the contest-
ants should be in ship shape condition.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Wildcats Overcome Spiders
In Hard-Fought Game

Spratt Moore Hits Line for Only Touchdown of Con-

Hugh Grey Ably Fills Po-
‘sition of Head Coach

Most of the men playing on last year’s | Former Gridiron Star Returns to

teams are out againe but several rules
have been passed excluding a few stars.
No basketball “D" man can play nor a
football man on the present squad under
Coach Grey. Last year’s championship
was won by the Sophs and the present
Senior class was the runner up. The
game between these two classes this
week. then, should be most interesting.

From Friday the date for the games
run up to November 23. This gives a
well balanced schedule which will test
each team and at the same time give
them the desired advantages of a justly
long season.

Practice for the Freshmen has reveal-
ed several promising players among the
aspirants for positions. It wilf well be re-
membered, too, that the class of '23 put
out a creditable team last season. The
showing of these two teams will be
closely watched in their game on No-
vember 1. The schedule is as follows:

Junior-Senior—October 29.

Soph-Fresh—November 1.

Junior-Soph—November 3.

Senior-Fresh—November 5.

Junior-Fresh—November 8.

Soph-Senior—November 10.

Junior-Senior—November 12.

Soph-Fresh—November 13.

Junior-Soph—November 17.

Senior-Fresh—November 19.

Junior-Fresh—November 22.

Soph-Senior—November 23.
D—____.

Chapel has been held regularly at
Davidson for 84 years. From 1837-
1838 in dining room of Steward’s

Hall (just north of the present
library.)
1838-1860 in the “Old Chapel”

‘(the original Shearer Hall, which
faced south.)

1860 for a short. while in the
cammencement hall of Chambers.
From, then until 1902 in the “Old
Chapel.’

14902-1920 in Shearer Biblical Hall.

Guide Wildcats

Coach Grey has the absolute confi-
dence of every Davidson man, He has
won this by his own record and through
his success as a coach.

While a student here, “Wooley” won
many honors for himself. He won three
letters in both football and track. In
his senior year he was picked for a
guard position on the all-American
team, thus being the first Davidson man
to win this honor. In picking him for
all-Southern, ‘17, Jemison says: “At
right guard we have placed Grey, of
Davidson, in our opinion, the best de-
fensive player of the year, the best
guard of the season and on a par with
the other all-star linemen that we have
selected, a heavy chap, weighing 188
pounds, but as fast as most of the back-
field men; a man who can punt, buck,
back up the line, tackle fiercely, in brief,
everything that a good lineman should
be.” He was also the mainstay of the
track team and holds the college record
in two events.

In recognition of his untiring efforts
on the athletic field, in his junior year

the was elected vice-president of the

Athletic Association. In the following
year he was elected president of that
organization and gained new honors tor
himself and his alma mater.

After finishing his college course he
was called to be dirctor of athletics at
hailey Military Institute. Taking hold
of a bunch of raw, inexperienced boys,
he moulded them into the team that wun
the prep school championship of South
Carolina. He repeated this success last
year.

This year he took the leadership of
the Wildcats and has developed them
into a smooth running outfit tha: has
now struck its stride and is sweeping all
before it.

Through his ceaseless efforts and un-

1920 in the commencement hall|eseTved devotion to the Red and Black,

of Qhambers.

(Continued on page 8)

OX OR HARDING!

‘PROMINENT MAN OF LETTERS
TO ADDRESS STUDENTS

Professor Metcalf, of the University
of Virginia, Here Nov. 14-16.

Prof. J. C. Metcalf, instructor in Eng-
lish at the University of Virginia, will
be on the Hill from Sanday, November
14. 10 Tuesday, the 16th, inclusive. To
the men here who know Professor Met-
calf. he needs no introduction, bux for
the benefit of those who have nat en-
joyed that privilege, a few facts of inter-
est might be noted. Professor Metcaif
is considered one of the foremos: educa-
tors in America. Not only as a teacher,
but as a writer, does he rank high. Mose
students have studied his History «f
English Literature in high school, and
recognize iC to be a work both intercst-
ing and well written. In fact, he is noted
for his ability to make interesting what-
ever subject of handles.

Davidson men are especially fortunate
in that while here he will, address the
students on three occasions. On Sunday
night, when he will speak to the com-
bined “Y" and regular church service,
his subject will be “A Study in the
Parables,” which will be handled in both
the literary and religions manner. On
Monday night he will address an assem-
bly of students and townspeople in
Shearer Hall, and at the assembly
period Tuesday he will give a short talk
to the students, While he is here Pro-
fessor Metcalf will meet with the vari-
ous English classes to discuss points of
interest relative to their work.

The students should feel specially hon-
ored in having such a man as Professor
Metcalf among them, and it is expected
that he will be given a regular David-
son reception. It is up to the men to
turn out and greet him: assuredly it will
be worth their time.

More Facts About
Our College

The history of Davidson is one of
growth. Starting with a student body
of 66 and a relatively small faculty, she
has grown step by step to the grand old
college as it is known today, The pres-
ent students themselves have witnessed
large additions to the student body and
faculty, but the college has just begun
to wake up to the need of the times and
D. C. is expected to expand more in the
next 10 years than she has done in the
last go. Davidson was founded in 1836-
°37 with 66 students. The following is a
record of her growth since that time:

"40-’41—63;; decrease 4.5 per cent.

‘45-'46—80: increase 26.9 per cent.

*50-'51—61; decrease 23.7 per cent.

’55-'56--88 ; increase 44.2 per cent.

‘60-'61—87 ; decrease 1.1 per cent.

'65-'66—290; decrease 66.6 per cent.

*70-'71—112; increase 286.2 per cent.

'75-'76—88;; decrease 21.4 per cent.

‘B0-"81—117; increase 32.9 per cent.

(Continued on page 8)

eZ

* WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Friday—7:15 p. m., Movies: Douglas
McLean and Doris May in “Twen-
ty-three and a Half Hours Leave.”
8:45 p. m., Davidsonian Reporters’
meeting.

Friday—9g:00 p. m., Seniors vs. Ju-
niors.

Saturday—3:30 p. m., Wildcats vs.
The Citadel, Wearn Field, Char-
lotte.

Sunday—6:30 p. m. Dwight Chal-
mers Addresses “Y.”

Monday—7:15 p. m., Junior Literary
Societies.

Monday—8:00 p. m., St. Claire Sis-

ters, in Second Lyceum Number.
ee ee ee ee

«ee @ @ © © # ee oO Oe eee KE

* *# @*# #@© #® #© © #@ @ & @ © # eH *@

fof the most modern type.

test—Richmond Strong on Defensive

It was last Saturday in the capital of Virginia, that the Red and
Black Wildcat with one gentle swipe of his paw, tore the Spider web

and galla-vanted off with a 7 to 0 victory.

The Wildcat did -not dis-

play his usual ferociousness, but played tenderly with the Spider until

aroused by the strategy and traps of the web.

Then did he rear back

and bound around the edges of the web, and though not tearing it to
pieces, he disarranged to that extent, where the tiniest Wildcat slipped

through for the coveted victory.

M SELECTED.

TENNIS TE

After many sets of hard, brilliant ten-
nis, four men won their way to the semi-
finals and earned themselves a berth on
the team that is to represent the college
this fall. This quartet is composed of
tradley, Cunningham, A. C. Ormond. :
and To oM. Morris. Each of these men
has a hard serve and plays a consistent
game; they will be a hard nut to crack.
They are practicing every afternoon and
are getting into mid-season form,

The details of this fall's matches have.
not yet been definitely decided, but they
either will take a three-day trip or will
have some college here for a tourna-
ment.

R. 0. T. C. Receives

Additional Equipment

Davidson’s Battalion Now Prepared
for Major Operations

‘
H

The Rk. O. T. C. has received from the:
GS. D. at Atlanta a shipment of the |
auxiliary weapons of the infantry. With.
this new equipment Davidson can put!
in the field a war strength company al-
most completely equipped.

The most interesting weapon received -
was a Poole 37mm. rifle. This gun—the
deadly “one-pounder"—can he fired at
the rate of 20 accurate shots per min- |
ute. Ws accurate range is about one
mile. The 37mm. rifle is used in cither di-
rect or indirect fire with high explosive |
or solid shell. The trench mortar that !
was sent is of the well-known Stokes
type. Because of the high angle of the
fire its accurate range is only 300 yards. ,
Only high explosive shell is used.

|
i

The two Browning machine guns are
These guns
are capable of firing 2,000 placed shots
per minute. It is interesting to note
that the tripods of these guns were
inade by the “Crown Cork and Seal Co.”
A bit out of their regular line, it would
seem. The Browning automatics—of
which four were sent—fire “only” 500
shots per minute. But this seeming dis-
crepancy is overcome by their great
mobility, for a crew of two men can
carry one anywhere.

Uncle Sam did not sec fit to send any
ammunition. So for the present the bat-
talion will have to content itself with
the theoretical working of its new wea-

In the first half, while Old Sol looked
down with her autumn glare, and while
the worthy supporters of Richmond
cheered their team, this crimson and
ebony animal called the Davidson Wild-
cat. struck at the center of the Rich-
mond Spider web, but found it too close-
ly woven to make appreciable headway.
In the second half, though, with a gen-
tle, ah how tender and caressing a
stroke, did this Wildcat tear the outer
portion of the web to pieces and skirt
its ends at will and when within strik-
ing distance, “Midget Wildcat Moore”
killed the firmly entrenched Spider by
plunging over the line for a touchdown.

The game was the cleanest of the
year, there being only four penalties all
told. Davidson was set back five yards
twice for delaying the game, and holding
once cost her 1§ more, Richmond's only
penalty was five yards for offside. Both

teams played with every omnce of -fieht

they could muster, but it was clean and
legitimate scrapping.

Davidson opened up a line plunging

,game but. after they: had driven the

Spiders back for a couple downs, all
future aitempis to gain through the line
were futile. Time and again the Red
and Black hurled itself against the Rich-
mond line, but no substantial gains were
made. At the last of the first half, the
Red and Blac disclosed her weak spots
at the ends, and beginning the second
half with a series of end runs and for-
ward passes, the Wildcats pushed over
a score in five mindtes.

In the first quarter Richmond received
the kickoff, ran it to mid-field and kick-_
ed. This was the nearest she came to
the Wildcat goal during the entire quar-
ter. In the second quarter, Davidson,
inissed an casy chance to score when a
neat pass to Schenck placed the ball on
Richmond's 12 yard line. Three line
plays realized seven yards and Moore

; dropped back to the 26 yard line to at-

tempt a field goal. The ball was low by.
10 feet. The rest of the quarter found
the ball in mid field, neither side threat-
ening. In the second half, Davidson re-
ceived the kickoff and aided by a 28
yard skirt around end by Poe, soon sent
the ball across for a ‘touchdown. Brady
kicked goal. The rest of the game was

played in midfield, with one exception.

Karly in the third quarter when David-
son was forced to her own 12 yard line.

She soon got out of this predicament,
however.

The superb running of Shepherd, N.,
featured for the winners. He gained 142

yards during the game and pulled sev-

cral spectacular runs good for 15 yards,
Spratt Moore also exhibited some neat
broken ficld running, getting away once
for a neat 15 yard gain. McFaden had
the misfortune of being knocked out on
the fifth play after he had gained 22
yards on an end run, he hurt his ankle
in being tackled. Carter and Bethel, in
the Richmond line, and Zeigler, of their
backfield, starred.
First Quarter.

McFaden kicked to R. C. 18 yard line,
Broaddus returning to 42 yard line.
Snead got 4, Zeigler 2, Towill 2. Rich-
mond kicked to D. C. 13 yard line, Me-

(Continued on page 8)

pons, But it hopes that ere long G. S.
D. in its infinite wisdom will send in a
few blanks at least and then—a little
fun.

D——_—_—-_..

A group of young ladies tom Char.
lotte High School acco ed by Mrs.
P. S. Gilchrist, were spectators of the
game Saturday afternoon. The young
ladies were Misses Edith and Roberta
Walker, Maria and Augusta Rose, and

Martha Lee.

R. L. Dick, ex-'23, was a spectator of
the game Saturday.

WHICH WILLIT BE?
