THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

Devotional News |

‘INFLUENCE OF VOLUNTEER
CONFERENCE FELT

Several New Bible and Mission
Study Classes Organized.

During the Volunteer Convention
the Davidson men got a vision of
real service. They went away with
the determination to make things
go or know the reason why. They

A class to study negro problems is
to be organized in the near future. '
Tliese people are of great import-
ance to the south and it is necessary
that their problems be given due
consideration by every one. All stu-.
dents will be.given an opportunity to

join this class when it is organized.

FOWLE AND SUMMERVILLE
. CONDUCT INSPIRING SERVICE programs have been very busy try-

are going to create some real relig-;

ious enthusiasm. Three new Bible The Call of the Gospel Ministry Pre-

classes have been organized for the

Sunday morning meetings. Two of,

them are in Rumple. Bobby Long
has a class on the first floor east side,
and B. B. Brittenheit has one on the
second floor west side. J. M. Rich-
ards is to take charge of a new class
on the third floor of South Cham-
bers. L. P. Good is reorganizing the

town boys into a class which will |

meet at Mrs. Sloan’s. The attend-
ance of the Bible classes has been
low this spring, but it must rise be-
tween now and commencement. It
will not do this unless every fellow
does his part.

At the Friday night teachers
meeting a class was organized for
studying the minor prophets. The
purpose of the class is to have real
prayer meetings and to earnestly
study the books of the minor proph-
ets. Admission to this class is free
to all and every one who is really in-
terested is urged to attend. Mr.
Miles is to be the leader and the
class will meet at 7 p. m. on Tuesday
night. ;

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

,

sented—Large Number Make |
the Supreme Decision.

Had every Davidson alumnus at
Union Seminary given a hundred
dollars apiece, they could not have
done even a fraction as much good
for the old college as they did by
sending two of their number, Fowle
and Summerville, down to speak to
the student body.

As one man expressed it, “The
greatest spiritual awakening that
ever happened at Davidson College
happened Sunday night.” Coming
right after the Volunteer Confer-
ence, the visit of these two men was
providential.

Both men spoke at the “Y” serv-
ice, “Summertime” first and Jamie
next. What did they say? How did
they say it? Were the talks well
worked out? The answers to these
questions have been forgotten. All
that is remembered and the one fact
that impressed Itself on every man
present is that Jesus Christ is calling
for men to preach His Gospel to
those who have never heard of Him.
The whole world is calling. In:

|

which are held each Sunday after-:
noon. This committee was compos-
ed of C. A. McGirt, E. L. Hollings-,
worth and C, G. Long. An appeal

was made to the band to aid in the’

various ways possible in the Volun-

teer convention.
A Better Davidson is Our Goal.
Y. M. C. A. ANNOUNCES
PROGRAM OF
SUNDAY NIGHT SPEAKERS

The committee on the Y. M.C. A..

ing to get a good and helpful pro-
gram for this spring term. Mr. Mat-:
thews, the chairman, has secured,
the very best speakers possible for |
our Sunday evening service. Every
attempt possible is being made to
make the programs for each service
as attractive as possible. Also to be
both instructive and interesting.

The program is not as yet com-
pleted, but is as follows:

March 28—Lieut. Edward Rob-
erts, Wilmington, N. C.

April 4—Dr. B. O. Clark, Salis-
bury, N.C.

April 11—Gov. T. W. Bickett
(Pending). .

April 18—Dr. W. S. Wilson, Lin-
colnton, N. C. (Pending).

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
ELECTS OFFICERS

Officers for Next Six Months Chosen

On Sunday afternoon the Chris-
tian Endeavor Society in the local
church elected new officers. These
are: President, W. A. Gamble, Jr;
vice-president and corresponding
secretary, Miss Lois Barnett ; secre-
tary, Miss Newtie Deal; treasurer,

America alone 60,000,000 people are! Miss Jasamine Brown. The old and

W. G SUMMERVILLE SPEAKS "°t even connected with any church. new officers will meet next Sunday
TO JOINT MEETING OF MIN- China, Japan, India, Africa, Korea, to choose committees.

ISTERIAL AND VOLUNTEER Persia, and the other countries be- The topic for Sunday is “Life Les- |

BANDS. yond the seas are calling for somé.sons from the Book of Proverbs.”

one to tell them of Jesus Christ. The: The leader is D. H. Ogden. All stu- |

the Vol- Ministry—the foreign field needs’ dents are cordially invited to attend.

On last Sunday evening
unteer Band held a short but im-
portant meeting. After the devo-
tional exercises, which were led by
Chalmers, Hart spoke of what con-
stitutes a missionary call. He show-
ed the great need in the different
countries of the world today and
left this message, “When you are

--qualified, these needs are the calls.”
Ritzer then explained the Declara-
tion card--that it is not in any sense
a pledge, but rather the expression
of purpose, God willing it, to become
a foreign missionary. He closed by
showing some of the benefits which
come to those who sign this declara-
tion early in their preparation.

Immediately after this meeting a
joint meeting of the Ministerial and
Volunteer bands was addressed by
Summerville, a Davidson alumnus,
now studying at Union Theological
Seminary. Summerville first spoke
of the challenge and opportunities of
the ministry today. “The one thing
that can heal the broken heart of the
world is the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
As students for the ministry we face
today the greatest privileges and op-
portunities possible in this, the
greatest day in which a man could
live.”

He then showed that the needs of
today can be met if men will put
their lives wholly in Jesus’ control,
and urged that each one, to the full-
est of his ability, co-operate with
Christ to cleanse his life from all
that is holding him back.

men. en, who are men in every
sense of the word. Foursquare,
straightforward, courageous men.

After his talk, while the audience
quietly sang, “Just as I am,” Fowle
asked all those men who from now
on were going to give themselves
wholly to the Gospel ministry, to’
come forward. About a dozen re-
sponded to the call, five of whom
were Seniors. The invitation was
also given to those who were willing
to go to the foreign field. Several
had seen the need and answered the
call.

The meeting was closed with a
prayer by Dr. Richards, and the men
quietly filed out, too greatly im-
pressed, too deeply moved to speak.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR TO
HAVE TRI-COLOR CONTEST

The Christian Endeavor Society,
as one feature of its spring program:
is going to hold an efficiency contest.
There are to be three teams, headed
by J. P. Price, R. R. Craig, and D. H.
Ogden. This contest is to last for
five weeks, and is for the promotion
of participation in the meetings.
Every member is expected to wear
his team color, which will be either
red, white or blue.

The topic for next Sunday is, “A!
Trip Through Dixie,” and with Miss!
Sarah Hamilton leading the expedi-'
tion, we are sure of a fine tour

Come in and help us grow.

BIBLE CLASSES
GAINING SLOWLY

To hear that the Bible classes’
were fully attended Jast Sunday
would be too good to be true. How-,
ever, those coming out last Sunday
numbered 197, Each fellow should
do his bit to make the attendance on
his floor 100 per cent.

Bible Class Attendance.

Rumple—East Side, 21; West.
Side, 10.
Watts—First floor, 10; Second

floor, 19; Third floor, 18.
Georgia—First floor, 11; Second

floor, 11; Third floor, no class.
Chambers — North Wing: First.

floor, 9; Second floor, 8; Third floor,

8. South Wing: First floor, 7; Sec-

ond floor, 9; Third floor, 17.
Louisiana: No class. Town, 3.
Total, 161.

RESULTS OF MILLION
DOLLAR CAMPAIGN

(Continued from page 1)
Architect Robert F. Smallwood, ’06,
of New York. This building will be,
placed on the East side of Georgia
and on line with the other buildings
on Dormitory Row.

Announcement cannot be made
concerning additional residences for
professors, class-rooms, and various
other improvements until after the

A missionary class has been or- through this southland of ours.'™eeting of the Board of Trustees.

ganized as a result of the conven-
tion, to study missions. The subject
will be “The World Reconstruction
Papers,” a series of eight lessons on

Come and bring somebody with you.

MINISTERIAL BAND.

mission written since the war, by, In beginning the work for the rest |
expert authorities. The topics to be of the term plans were discussed as/

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

GLEE CLUB GETS TO
GOING ONCE MORE

At a meeting of the Glee Club last

studied are India, The Near East, to the way and manner of procedure’ Monday morning Charlie Vance was
China. Japan, Latin America, Ma- for the coming meetings of this elected leader for next year. The
lasia. Woman Life Christianity and spring. It was moved and carried club has started with much enthusi-
Democracy. This class will be very that the regular meetings of the asm and great things are being plan-
interesting as well as instructive.'Presbytery be suspended and only;ned. A trip is being arranged with
All who will are invited to attend the call meetings for the transaction of Queens, Mitchell, Flora Macdonald
meetings, which will be held every|business be held. It was suggested: and Salem. It is desired that every
Sunday at 1 o'clock in the parlor of|that a place be reserved on the pro-| person with musical talent come out:
the library. gram for the discussion of problems! and try for a place on the club.

After having gone through such} which come before the members in' Sac amneeeeD |
an inspiring convention as the one|the week’s course. It was also sug- When we look out over the:
just closed, it seems that every man|gested that certain members of the| campus and see the flower of south-
who has any Christianity about him|faculty be invited to address the|ern manhood strolling to and fro,
should want to learn of the needs of|band on different occasions. In ac-; with their arms around each other's:
his fellow man. The want must be{cordance with these desires the| waists, we can’t help asking our-
known before the supply can be]president appointed a committee to| selves the question: “Are they prac-.
given. Mission study is the answer.'arrange programs for the meetings |ticing for next summer?”

BASE BALL

» Gel Into the Game

with
Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats,
Balls, Etc.

OWSspoure tortthe eakieg?”

Myers Hardware
Company

Headquarters for
ALL KINDS OF
ATHLETIC GOODS

E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY.
RICHMOND, VA.
|
!
|
|
|

BradyPrinting Co.

Statesville, N. C.

Perfectly appointed buildings,

spacious grounds, well-balanced

‘curriculum, strong faculty. For

catalogue address

W.W. MeOnE, DB, L1D, Prien |] The College Printers

° If you want good printing

SAY IT WITH

FLOWERS and quick service, BRADY
— IS THE MAN TO DO
SCHOLTZ, the Florist IT.

Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

ORDERS SOLICITED

7m SSS

ATTHE COMMISSARY

| 16 Chambers
eerneerel SESESSSaTe = sy

ener ee

The Selwyn Hotel

FIRE PROOF

OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE

“The House of Service”
1. Free tuning for three years.
2. Free fire insurance while you
are paying. quaw
3. Exchange privilege.
Charlotte's Largest Store Of
Quality,Pianos and Organs

SSSOCCSSSOOCCSOOOECOCS

of Charlotte, conven-
ient to railroad sta-
tions, street cars, busi-
ness and shopping cen-
| ters,

Table d’hote funches,
12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO-
PEAN.

| Located in thc heart

“The World's Best Piano”
And other standard makes and the

incomparable : Rooms $1.50 and up;
AMPICO with bath $2.00 and up.
Reasonable terms of payment can
be wane sring snd Moving Our system of artes.san

water flowing through the
building.

H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

JOHN W. POST &-CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade Si.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport
lews, Va.

STITT IIIS IIIT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT iii TiTTiTTTriiiiiiTrirTTirrriir ties

soe .2SSee

ONE GRADUATE

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently
$308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Train-
ing School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man.
When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to
“go to it.” e give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then
a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in
touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen
his strong points, As a result, our Training School men are making good.
Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company

Greensbore, Nl. 6.
A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. |

produced

scSuenwsssonncosossene

R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

Be
