=e
t

! |
Prof. Kimball T | | Oak Ridge
Speaks Mere
am! THEDA VI. SONIAN |=.
FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON
Vol. VIL. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 18, 1920. No. 24

Lyceum to Present An-
other Treat Satur-
day Night
Edward Reno, Magician, Noted Pres-

todigitator, in Pleasing Perform-
ance of Matchless Magic.

Ticket holders for the Davidson '

Lyceum course on the Hill this year
are to have the treat of their lives
Saturday night, March 20, at 8:30
o'clock. _

Edward Reno, magician extraor-
dinary, has the distinction of being

the oldest active Redpath entertain-

er on the Redpath system today. For
over 20 years Mr. Reno has been
puzzling. and surprising delighted
audiences throughout the country in

his program of.magic and mystic-
isme, Followers of Sir Oliver Lodge |

will take keen delight in seeing their
et theories demonstrated by this
ightning-like man of mystery and

Ouiji boards will doubtless be on sale |

by some enterprising Davidsonites
after he has firmly convinced skep-
tics of the powers of darkness.

There is no doubt of the fact that
those desiring good seats will have
to come out early to avoid a rush for
the bald-headed row.

The management will attempt to
accommodate the crowd by drafting
the Y. M. C. A. benches, and Captain
Mueller’s chairs and seats will be
open in the order of “first come first
served.” .

For the benefit of those who pur-
chased season tickets and have lost
or misplaced them, the price of full
single admission will necessarily
have to be charged in exchange for
a refund slip which will in turn be
exchanged for 50 cents when such
tickets are presented to Mr. Oltman
or when check discounted for $1.75
in payment of the season ticket, is
produced.

An effort to obtain Mr. Read, who
was to have been here last month, is
being made, and very likely Mr.
Read will be able to fill his cancelled
engagements early in April. The
definite date of his appearing will be
announced as soon as matters have
been cleared up.

Saturday night’s performance will
begin sharply at 8:30 o’clock.

Let’s greet him with even a more
enthusiastic and. numerous crowd
than Mr. Packard had last Saturday
night.

J. E. CASSELL ELECTED

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Men Win Places on Staff.

At the annual election held last
Monday morning, J. E. Cassell was
elected editor-in-chief of The Da-
vidsonian for next year. C. H. Long
was elected circulation manager, and
A. G. Oltman, business manager.
At a previous meeting of the staff,
J. M. Richards was appointed man-
aging editor, and J. P. Price assign-
ment editor. M. R. Doubles was ap-
pointed on the staff as athletic edi-
tor. These men go into office on the
Ist of April and go out next year at
the same time. They are the most
important offices on the staff, and
the men picked have shown and will
show great interest in The David-
sonian and in making it the best col-
lege paper of the South.

Harry Caldwell, ’13, is now located
at Concord, N. C., as agent for
Chandler, Velie, and Cleveland cars.

T. K. Trotter, ’12, is scout master
in Camden, S. C., where he is prac-
tising law.

|

NEW OFFICERS OF THE N. C. VOLUNTEER UNION—Left to right: Mise Clara Henly, Secretary; Eugene Chesson,
Treasurer; Miss Sue Ervin, Vice-President; D. W. Roberts, President.

North Carolina Volunteer Union Holds Annual_Confer-
ence---High Standards Set for Work During New Year

Davidson Plays Host to Many Visitors-—Inspiring Meetings Held—Social Events Also Enjoyed—Over Sixty Fair, REVISED BASEBALL

ee,

Visitors on the Hill

the house, but consensus of opinion
was strongly in favor of mission

N. C. VOLUNTEER UNION.
study classes under group leaders.

Friday Night Session.
After a short intermission the bus-

The North Carolina State Volun-|iness session was continued in the
teer Conference opened last Friday | form of a review of good missionary
night with a downpour of rain cal-| books.
culated to dampen the spirits as well| Dr. Bedinger, a Presbyterian mis-
as the garments of any except the|sionary to Africa, and an old David-
indefatigable delegates. Most of|son man, then made what has been
the visitors reached Davidson on the| considered by many as easily the
eight o’clock train, and waded from|best speech of the Convention. His
the station to the church, where the] ringing challenge for men and wo-
Conference started at eight. men, doctors, teachers, and evangel-

Dave Roberts, ex-’20, vice-Presi-|ists alike, as well as industrial men
dent of the state Union, was acting| was impressive and thrilling to the
President in the absence of Miss|last degree. The speaker then ask-
Janie Klutz, of N. C. C. W. Miss|ed all who were interested in the
Helen Hardy, of the Methodist} work to follow him into the Sunday
Board, opened the meeting with|school room for further conferences,
scripture reading and prayer. Theljand fifty or sixty went with him,
address of welcome in behalf of the{|many of them deciding on the spot
students and townspeople was made|to go into the work.
by. Dr. Arbuckle, and Dr. Richards] The Volunteers then held a meet-
welcomed the delegates to thel/ing in which the various colleges
Davidson Church. Rev. J. F. Pres-|reported on their bands. Wake For-
ton, of Korea, made the address of|est, Trinity, Meredith, G. C. W., and
the evening, which consisted of an|N. C. College all reported large
interesting lecture on the stereopti-|active Volunteer Bands.
can views which were shown. Mr. Saturday Afternoon.
Preston spoke on the characteristics The afternoon session on Satur-
of the Koreans and their need for day was opened with a song service
the gospel. The slides varied from|and devotional exercises conducted
temple scenes, peoples, home life, hy Rev. R. W. Miles. The whole
and government buildings to the !afternoon was one of interest and
beautiful mountain scenery. The inspiration as was the entire con-
talk was one of unusual interest,, ference. The princi: al speaker on
and many of those present began to|the program was Miss Edith Haz-!
feel the “missionary germ” grow lett, Traveling Secretary of the
within them as they saw the vital| Student Volunteer Movement. Miss
needs of the Koreans. Hazlett’s remarks were centered

Saturday Morning. around two major themes, “Praying

The sessions Saturday morning and Giving.” After she had explain-|
were largely of a business nature.|ed the objects of the movement she:
Dr. Murray first discussed the pur-| took up her two themes showing the
pose of the convention and outlined| value and efficiency of prayer and
methods of conducting mission|the various methods of giving that
study on the campuses. Many ex-} will cause a growth in this particu-
cellent suggestions were made from|lar grace. Other remarks of the

afternoon were inspirational and in-
structive. At four thirty the ses-
sion adjourned to the Gym where a
group picture of the conference was
taken. This was followed by an
enjoyable reception given by the Y.
M.C. A.

Saturday Night.

Battalion Impresses In-
spector Very | Favorably

R. 0. T. C. Makes Creditable Show-

ing Before Government Inspector
~—Complimented for Mili-
tary Appearance and
Discipline

The district inspector noted and
appreciated the courtesy shown him
by all during his visit to the Da-
vidson R. O. T. C. Friday, March 12.
He was also favorably impressed by
the entire military performance
which certainly gave credit to the
disciplined interest of the members
and the efficiency of the training in
the R.O. T.C. He expressed his re-
gret that his visit was so short, but
expects to forward to the office here
extracts from his official report to
be made in Charleston soon.

Unfortunately no information is
at hand in regard to Davidson's
cligibility for further inspection in
the nationwide contest for the R. O.

iT. C. honor flag. If this district in-

spector’s recommendation is given,
the War Plans Division of general
staff will send a special inspector to
make a detailed and thorough in-
spection of men, arms and equip-
ment, which will decide upon the
merits of this unit for honorable
mention, or if it shows up as it
should for the honor flag. It is ex-
pected that the constitutional quali-
fication of having graduates of the
advanced course to enter reserve of-
ficers’ corps will be waived until
next year, when the course shall
have been given two years. This,
will give Davidson a fair opportun-
ity which must be used to win new
honors for “Old Davidson.”

EDULE ANNOUNCED

—_——.

| Sixteen Games Booked. _Six Teams

'
‘

to be Met on Sprunt Field.

The following is a revised sched-
ule, showing a few changes in the
schedule given out a weck or two
ago. There will be five games

The Saturday night session open-, (possibly six) on the Hill instead of

ed with devotional exercises con-
ducted by D. M. Chalmers, presi-
dent of the Davidson Y. M. C. A.
Chalmers after reading the well-
known description of the judgment
in the 25th chapter of : Matthew,

spoke of the characteristics of the!

Christian service ; that it is the little

acts that count, even a cup of cold.

water in Christ’s name, that tho you
do these things for your fellow men
you do them to Him if your heart
and motive is right, that true Christ-
ian service forgets itself and desires
no praise from men.

At the conclusion of this talk the
conference entered upon election of

‘

officers for the coming year 1920-21.:
The following were elected: Presi- |

dent, D. W. Roberts, Davidson; V-; Davidson

President, Miss Sue Erwin, North
Carolina College for Women; Sec-
retary, Miss Clara Henley, Guilford
College ; Treusurer, Eugene Chesson
Trinity; Editing Secretary, S. E.
Ayers, Wake Forest. Miss Alma
Chilton of Guilford College and J.
P. Price of Davidson were chosen to
represent the North Carolina Union
in the conference to be held in April
at New York.

Dr. Lucas, a returned missionary
who has served for more than four-
teen years in China gave the closing
address for the evening. Thruout
his talk Dr. Lucas impressed the
fact that China must be reckoned
with. He showed the immensity of
the country, and its wealth of natur-
al resources, its almost innumerable

seven as piven by the first schedule.
Another change is that no game will
be played with Wofford.

March 24-25, Oak Ridge at David-
son,

April 7, Carolina at Greensboro.

April 8, Furman at Davidson.

April 10, N. C. State at Charlotte.

April 16, Guilford at Davidson.

April 17, Wake Forest at David-
son.

April 20, Guilford at Guilford.

April 21, N. C, State at Raleigh.

April 22, Wake Forest at Wake
reApril 23, T

pri’ 23, Trinity at Durham.

April 24, Elon at Elon.

April 26, Elon at Davidson.

April 27, University of S. C. at

S (pending).

April 29, P. C. at Clinton.

April 30, Ga. Tech at Atlanta.

May 1, Ga. Tech. at Atlanta.

May 3, Furman at Greenville.
SSS SS

population, and the great awaken-
ing which is now taking place in
that country. Someday, le said,
“China will be one of the greatest
nations in the world, we will have
to reckon with her.” China is open
today as she never was before to
America and the Christian religion.
The opportunity faces America now,
if she fails how great and how dis-
astrous will be the results. Hut we
must not fail, let every one seek to.
know his or her part in this great

(Continued on page 8)

WHY NOT BE A GENTLEMAN IN CHURCH AS ELSEWHERE?
