GREATER DAVI
as

DR. DEVINE
Friday

DSONIAN

ISSUE

Plenty of Pep
at the

Banquel Tonight

FOR A

GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 25, 1920.

No. 25

SOPHOMORES SOON TO
MAKE MERRY AT BANQUET

The Sophomores Banquet to be
held on the fifth day of April will
far outshine any similar function
that has ever been held in this sec-
tion of the country. As the Pack-
ards and Pierce Arrows carry away
their loads of human freight on that,
long looked for day many will be!
heard to murmur “I wish I was a
So ” .

The banquet will be held in the
dining room of the Selwyn Hotel in
Charlotte and according to reports
from Manager Gilchrist it will be a
time that no Sophomore should miss.

Reno Entertaing Large.
Audience in Great
Style

Students and Town People Enjoy
Marvelous and Mystifying Per-
formance of Master
Magician

The world is outdone—all the
mysteries of the Pyramids, the wis-
dom of Athens, the cryptic _know-
ledge of the Key to All Dark Things,
the Occult Sciences of India—these
all have been surpassed. The fanci-
ful dreams of. the Mediaeval al-
chemist have been far exceeded by
the actual wonders of Reno the
magician. Midas’ golden touch en-
abled him to convert anything that
he touched into gold; but how much
more wonderful to be able to make a
dove out of thin air!

On Saturday night this wonderful
man did his wonders wonderously
for the benefit of the assembled
youth of this burg (the older per-
sons came to explain to the child-
ren). The result, as was to be ex-
pected, was a wondering bunch of
goo-goo-eyed lads strolling to their
rooms watching to be quite sure
they didn’t fail to gather any gold-
mines that might have grown, mush-
roomlike, under the stimulus of the
taint of mystery that was in the

very air. |

The members of the golf club
watched in stupefied amazement the
multiplying at the hands of this
super- necromancer of the balls used
in their favorite sport, reflecting up-
on the possibilities in an economic

_ way of the said multiplication. John
D. McConnell, when called upon to
assist in the performance, did so
with distinction, having been threat-
ened with condemnation to spend
six months in a pie factory with a
muzzle on if he failed. By request
the ring trick was repeated just as
had been performed on the preceed-
ing night in the Princess Theatre
in Mount Mourn, when many of the
students had seen it (this is the new-
est and finest of the many beautiful

lay-houses of that metropolis, hav-
ing recently been erected at a cost
of one million sheckles by the Union
Cost Company of Cornelius).

As have said many other scribes
in de-scribing other social functions
more exclusive (adv. price up to $5).
A good time was had by all.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.
GENTLEMEN, BEWARE!

The spring tournament will soon
begin and it is important that the
two tennis courts in.the rear of
Chambers be kept in as good condi-
tion as possible. Please do not play
on them without some type of rub-
ber soled shoes. T. H. S.

A scene from Davidson College Linke, showing critical moment at Home Sweet Home, or green number nine.

Vhato hy Meliwaine

Results of Milion-Dollr Greater Davidson Club Has Shown Its

Campaign to be Seen
At Once

Laundry, Enlarged Heating Plant and
Dining Hall to Be Ready Next
Fall—-Plans for New Dor-

mitory Are Made

As the students of Davidson are
well aware, the pledges made in the
recent campaign are payable in four
annual installments, and according-
ly the progress that the college will
be able to make in increasing its
buildings and equipment will depend
largely upon the promptness with
which these pledges are paid. The
authorities, however, have already
been at work, and several good
things are promised us for the im-
mediate future.

Probably the first new building
to be erected is the College Laundry.
The contract for this building has
been let, the machinery has been
purchased, and the Laundry will be
open for the coming September. It
is to be located in rear of the Geor-
gia dormitory, in, accordance with
the plans for the development of
grounds decided on several. years

ago. The building will be thirty by’

sixty feet, one story high, roof cov-
ered with composition shingles, and
cement ftoor.

A new and greatly enlarged heat-
ing-plant is to be provided by next
fall. Its capacity will be sufficient
to supply
the Chemical Laboratory as soon as
it is possible for the college to fit
these buildings for steam heat.

Plans are now being developed to
enlarge the dining hall of the Shu-
maker house to such proportions as
will accomodate approximately two
hundred students. The College pro-
poses to conduct a Commons there,
and to set a good table at the mini-
mum price. Detailed arrangements
have not yet been made, and further
announcements will be given later.

As soon as the funds are available
a dormitory of a capacity of one
hundred men will be built in ac-
cordance with the plans drawn by

(Continued on page 3)

Merits--- A Crowded School
Attests Its Efficiency

Has Been important Factor in the Great Success of This Session—Must Now
Turn Its Attention to the Work of Making a Better Davidson

Has Now Been in Operation a Year.| mer long living up to the club’s ef-
forts. There was only one man on

About this time last year the sug-| the road this vacation for the col-
| gestion was made that an organiza-jlege when heretofore there have
tion be perfected that would em-| generally been four. He frequently
| brace the student body and alumni] wrote to the office, “Everywhere |
and have as it’s objest the good of] go I hear of and see the results of
the college both as to quality and) the Greater Davidson Club.” All of
quantity if we may express it that] you are familar with the result of,
way. Plans soon followed the]our first offensive; how we passed!
original idea and before the spring] beyond the objective with room and:
{term was over the Greater Davidson|to spare. If you will drop in and ask
Club was organized and took as it’s} Mr. Jackson about the registration

1

| motto, “A Bigger and Better David-| this year you will find that it is over
son.” The president of the student/450; he is the only person who
body to hold the chair during his] knows exactly, because we are still’
iterm as student head and Mr. Miles getting new men.
‘was elected secretary of the club for] Briefly this is what we have donc ;:
{the year 19-20. but the end is not yet. With a year’s

The motto sets forth the aims of experience behind us let us consoli-

| the organization and this article will date our position and then press on -

‘deal briefly with the efforts put ‘for further conquests. However,
.forth to carry out the first phase,]we want to endeavor to get better,
:namely, a “Bigger” Davidson. Just|as we grow bigger for it would be!
.a word however, as to the member-| better to be small than to grow big!
‘ship of the club. All undergraduates] and not better.
_and alumni are members and one un-

{usual feature is that there is no fee;| TWO THINGS MUST BE
this we are confident is absolutely] DONE TO SECURE OUR GOAL

‘unique in the history of all clubs.
But we hope the club will be] The motto of the Greater David-.

orrison, Chambers, and unique in more ways than one. It is}son Club, is “A Bigger and a Better *

also hoped that it will bring closer|Davidson.” Until the new dormi-
co-operation between the “old Boys”|tory is erected it is out of the ques-
‘and the student body. tion to consider how Davidson may
_. Now as to the manner in which|be made bigger, so the Club must
the scheme worked. A student body | concern itself now with only the one
jof four hundred was set as the mark | issue : “How may Davidson be made
for this year and everyone set to] better?”

with enthusiasm and vim. When| Several months ago a_ certain
school closed last May each man|prominent gentlemen made a state-
left with the avowed purpose of in- ment, of which this is the substance:
teresting some man or men in “There are two institutions out-
Davidson College and landing them'standing for their spirit, Yale, and
if possible, It was not long before Davidson.” That is putting us in a
this interest began to show results.|pretty high class, and we admit that
The office was besieged with re-jthe spirit is good—but it ought to
quests for literature to be sent out}better. There seems to be an in-|

to prospective students and the of jfangible something circulating sub-,

fice force kept on the jump all sum- (Continued on page 9)

*

Greater Davidson Ban-
quet and Rally to be
Held Tonight

Old-Time Pep to Mark Get-Together
Feed in Gymnasium—Prominent
Alumni Speakers to
be Present

Seven o'clock on March 25! At
that hour 450 men will fall to at the
biggest banquet held at Davidson
for many years. For that is the
date of the Greater Davidson Ban-
quet in the gymnasium, arrange-
ments for which are well under way.
Perhaps one of the things that the
Davidson student body needs now
that it has become larger is a greater
spirit of fellowship between the in-

{dividuals that make up the student

body. Every fellow should feel that
he is one of the fellows that is help-
ing to make old Davidson measure
up to her regular standing of Chris-
tian fellowship and democracy. The
only way to make college life what
it should be is to get every fellow to
agree to some definite policy. If
each fellow thinks that a plan is
worth while then each fellow will
do his part to support this plan. The
purpose of the banquet is to discuss
the plans for next year, and boost
the different branches of college ac-
tivities.

There will be several short and in-
teresting talks from some promi-
nent alumni, among which will prob-
ably be talks by W. M. Fetzer, C. L.
Wilcox, W. S. Golden and R. W.
Miles. Those particularly interest-

ed in the Greater club hope that this _

banquet will be the inauguration of
an annual affair.

The social side of the banquet
should be one of the most important
features. It is expected that all the
students will get together and have
a good time, strengthening the bond
which makes every Davidsonian
proud of his atma mater. Come to-
night with plenty of the old David-
son “pep” and the expectation of
having a rare treat, for no one will
be disappointed.

Maj. William Lee Davidson has
been re-elected commander of the
Chester post. of the American Le-
gion.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

* * we e FF

* CALENDAR.
* Wednesday, March 25 — Oak
* Ridge vs. Davidson, Sprunt
Field, 3:30 p. m.

* Thursday, March 26—Oak Ridge
* vs. Davidson, Sprunt Field,
* 3:30 p. m.

* “Greater Davidson” Banquet,
* 7:00 p. m.

Friday, March 27—Bible Class
* Leaders’ Class, 7:00 p. m.

* Address by Dr. Devine, 7:15.

* Saturday, March 28—Movies:

* Dustin Farnum in “Captain |
* Courtesy.” 7:00 p. m.

* Literary Societies, 6:45 p. m.

* Sunday, March 29—Bible Classes
* 10:00 a. m. *
* “YY” Services 6:15 p. m. Meng *
* to speak on Korea. *
*

*

*

*

*

*

*x

*

Hee HEE ERE HR HEHEHE HR E D OH

Monday, March 30—Eu. Society *
6:45 p. m. . *
Tuesday, March 31—Devotional *
Class led by Mr. Miles, 7:00 *
x

p.m.
Wednesday, April 1—Intercol- *
Finals, 7:30 p. m *

legiate . '
x * * ek eR Re ek

*

The Aim of Every Loyal Davidson Student: A BETTER DAVIDSON
