THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

to be held weekly, and the subjects
studied lie in the fields of economics,
politics, religion, literature, and cur-
rent events. Dr. Lowell, president
{of the university, heartily endorses
the plan.

student body that added much to
the pleasure of Field Day.

It is a custom at several girls’ col-'
leges in the South to pay a yearly
visit to the campus of a neighboring
brother institution, and as this plan‘
has always worked most excellently |
‘wherever tried, we would advocate
“most earnestly that hereafter no |
Field Day be celebrated without the
presence of our sisters from Queens.
It will strengthen the ties that
should by all means exist between
these schools and’ cause the forma-
tion of friendships that will work for

ORE i.

Course Now Offered in Football and
Baseball.

OD

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

Scientific football and the art of

‘ . Alabama jinside baseball are included in the
The University of ‘catalogue of lecture subjects soon to

i tbe issued by the University Exten-
Chas. A. Bernier head coach of V. ion division of the University of

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

_, the betterment of both student P. [. has been chosen Director of S!00 tv!
J. E. CASSELL, ..-----------n-vsnnoncnncernocenecncnnsnooesoeony Baditor-in Chief bodies. In the opinion of some, the Athletics and Professor of Physical California. One may now take if
A.B ORMOND coo Kssisiant Managing Editor sttidents at Davidson do not have Education at the Univ. of Ala, His Course by mail and become one of
J.P. PRICE. ___ 0-22 2ooe enone nner ne eee ence Assignment Editor sufficient opportunity for the social first active work will be assistant the * rest dew lor ee ‘larly h
M. R. DOUBLES. _-_..--.----~--+-+22-22e een enn enn n nnn n anne nena ene Athletic Editor relations with young ladies that will coach of football next fall—The ¢ve™ Deen ere open, similarly re
C. J. MATTHEWS...-.----~--------------0--------2--- 222-20 -- 25g; Alumni Editor insure the development of the best Crimson White. may, by merely taking a course by
J.C McCASKILL . --- ------------nnennnennennnnnnn nn ne nano Exchange Editor manners and culture in young men -mail, break ‘into the national league.
JM, DUNDAP ee) occ TTT Sampus Editor along this one ling, and we. think V. M. 1.
D. W. ROBERTS..----------------------------------------+---- Y. M.C. A. Editor that this is a means of alleviating General Pershing has been invited
Tak +175 rT ge L Social Editor this difficulty to some extent. to deliver the commencement ad- ALL ROADS LEAD TO
BOR SeLWAIN Boonen Octal ‘Photographer Our only regret is that the dele- dress at V. M. 1. Though he has

.. C. SUMMERS

N
. iT.
E.
M

REPORTERS’ CLUB

W. P: CUMMING
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
PHILLIPS
TUFTS

; BOOKER
L. LISTON
CUNNINGHAM

GILMER J. W.
E. H.

D. L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BRITENHIRT
W._W. MOORE

J. C. WOOL

Additional Reporters for this issue: A. D. King, J. T. Wilkes, A. C. Ormond,
E. H. McGuire. CD. Fuller, R. R. Craig, G. W. Mauze, W. T. Elliott, M. P. Cal-

gation was so small, but this did not
detract from the enjoyment of the
occasion. We appreciated your visit,
Queens, and a cordial invitation is
extended that you will not be long
in coming again to our campus.

Open Forum

‘not yet responded to this invitation,
.it is generally supposed that he will
‘do so.

Yale University.

For the first time in history of
Yale University, students may now
be admitted without having studied
i Latin.—Yale Record.

houn, O. P. Hart, W. J. Cooper, J. C. Bailey, A. F. Fricker, W. A. Gamble, C. B. AS TO EATING. University of Texas.
Sanders. ; An aviation club is to be organized
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: Things that are announced in the at the University of Texas with all
G. OLTMAN Business Manager faculty’s program of proposed, men who were in any way connected CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A. G. OLTMAN ----oenenconennnnecononnncnsoncncnncnccrnscccces - changes usually have a way of hap-‘with the air service eligible for i .
é cUnny wee nece rene ene eee ee enn n nee nee ee nce e nee e nee n ee Assistant Managers pening in the dim and distant future. | membership. One of the students, April Sth, 6th, 7th and 8th
> ' And so, when the faculty let it be'a former lieutenant, is offering free
known that it advocated a public, tides toa certain number of students The Sensation of the Season
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: = mess hall, very little attention waslin his plane—The Daily Texan. “Blind Husbands”
C. H, LONG...._--------------------- +--+ 207+ ++ - 2222-22 ----- Circulation Manager aroused. Perhaps a few of the stu-
J. C. WOOL. ------ --- 2 none navn enema nnn n cane Assistant Manager. dents felt a vague feeling of regret! Centre College.

The first day of April and the first issue of the new staff, but we,come back next fall we shall find

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

| EDITORIAL

hope that there will be no linking of the two events together.

that possibly their children or grand-
children would be affected by: this.
proposal, but that was all. Now,

owever, there is a rumor going the
{rounds to the effect that when we

lone of the boarding houses enlarged |
to serve as a temporary mess hall

From all reports it seems that the student body was well nigh over- until the permanent one can be.

whelmed with holiday generosity ofthe Faculty for last week-end.

A

crected—and that puts an entirely,

surprising fact is that not a single student complained about the loss different face upon the matter.
from his studies.

Isn’t that “fighting spirit” of the Red and Black teams wonderful?
The come-back staged in the first Oak Ridge game is typical of all Da-
vidson teams.

Our advice to the students who can find nothing better to do than
annoy the band by flipping pebbles at them while playing is that they

find another diversion. Making mud pies would be better in connection.

with their childish tendencies, for this at least would not be disturbing
to others.

WAS IT A SUCCESS?

HOSE who attended the Greater Davidson Club Banquet Thurs- making their trips and last week:
day night were present at one of the biggest events in the history | several of our visitors admitted the
of the college; those who failed to avail themselves of this splen-isame_ thing.
did opportunity have lost something that they can never retrieve. The; that five hundred students could not
affair was a grand success in every sense of the word, and we take |be served with the same facility and
this liberty of expressing to the President of the club and his faithful thoroughness as thirty or forty can.

assistants the thanks of the students for giving us this treat. 5
The spirit of the meeting was that which is always characteristic {cllows a choice as to where they

of any gathering of Davidson men, for signs of good fellowship, ath- should eat. 2
letic enthusiasm and loyalty to the old Red and Black were quite in evi- lows here who stick to the same!

: The argument advanced in favor
of the change is that it will lower
the students’ expenses. The neigh- |
boring colleges most often cited se-
‘cures board at sixteen dollars a.
month, two dollars cheaper than’
our lowest-priced house.. So far, so
good. But there are other consid-
erations that should be taken into’
account.

For one thing, the standard of:
service would be lowered. There
can be no doubt as to this fact. Our
‘teams have found this to be true in’

2

It stands to reason

Then besides it would not give the

There are a few fel-

dence. It is yet too early to predict the good results that will be forth-i house year after year, but they are,

coming from this banquet, but we are consfident that they will be mani-_ in the minority. Variety is the spice:
fold, the effect of which will be the progress of our institution by leaps |of life. Cato or somebody said, and

and

bounds.

he was right. Some houses special-

No one who attended the banquet could possibly have left without|ize in grits and hominy while oth-
feeling that a new relation from now on would exist between the fac-!ers are noted for the superb zip
ulty and students. Every member of the faculty had his heart and soul courses, and so, when a fellow tires
in the occasion, and they gave evidence of the fact that they have the;of the one he can change houses. ;

interest of the student body and college at heart. It behooves us, there-. Hut the proposed
fore, that we consider carefully and well before we vent our maledic-, away with all this.

tions upon the heads of our instructors, for given the chance, they will
* meet us half way.

But the best has not yet been told.

The speeches of the evening

plan would do’

And finally, this change would not’
be quite fair to those who run the
-houses. There are in Davidson sev-

teemed with the spirit of loyalty and honor that has always made our etal good ladies who have looked
college an outstanding one, and it was gratifying to see that the present | after the boarding of the fellows for:
student body is not inferior to those of the past, as shown by the fact/quite a while—and they have done
that every man pledged himself to put the loyalty and honor of his|it well. Why, then, should they be:

school high upon a pedestal which will be for him his continual goal| deprived of their livelihood.

both

while in college and for after life.

The adoption of the revised

Student Self Government Constitution marks a new milepost in the ad-

vancement of Davidson.

The history of our school shows no failures

in what its student body has attempted, and this one cannot allow this

disgrace to fall upon it. The mark set is a high one, for we realize that
many defects in our Honor System must be eradicated. It is a big) Dr. Arbuckle visited Charlotte
job, but it can and must be done, otherwise we will be traitors to the | Saturday.
C Remember, a BETTER DAVIDSON is our

traditions to our school. t
goal, and to accomplish this every man must play his part and do his duty

as can only become a Davidson student.

LONG LIVE THE QUEENS!

AST week witnessed the occurrence of two new and unusual /lotte; to call the roll: Matthews, C.
events on the Hill which it is earnestly hoped will be made per-
manent customs of this institution.

The first one, the Greater} Burgess, S. A.; McArn, A. D.; Cor-
Davidson Club Banquet, has already been mentioned; the second was|nelson, G. H.; Farmer, G. D., and
the presence on the campus of a delegation from the Queens College | Hamrick, R. E.

ho wants the change, anyway ?
Marcus Porcius.

“CAMPUSISMS.”

|

Prof. J. L. Douglas paid a hurried
visit to Charlotte Friday evening.

Many men took advantage of the
half-holiday Saturday to visit Char-

J.: Howell, J. D.; Cavanaugh, J. A.;

The Socks and Buskin is the name
of a dramatic club recently’ organ-,
ized at Centre College. They will
give one or two musical comedies
during the spring and a play at Com-
mencement.—Centre College Cento.

University of Kentucky.

An interesting investigation is be-
ing conducted at Kentucky state.
From a questionair sent out by a,
Faculty Committee it was found
that 63 per cent of the students were |

earning at least a part of their ex- [

pense money during their college
course and that 2 per cent were
earning enough to pay their entire
expenses.—Kentucky Kernel.

“When you face your shadow you
have your back to the sun. Turn!
around to the sun and your shadow
will disappear.”

Harvard.

Harvard has replaced the “literary
society” by discussion groups. It is
thought that these will reach a
larger number of students, have a
greater range of interests, and be, in
short, more practical and beneficial
than the former societies. Ten
groups have been formed, each un-
der the leadership of a professor,
and students were requested to en-
roll under that professor whose sub-
ject interested him most. An under-
griduate secretary was appointed
for each group, and is to act as gen-
eral executive and to relieve the
leader of details. The meetings are

and mellow.

good dealer.

ANTES the thing with men. + Under the spell of
WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved.
The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet
It will not crack or bum through. The
WDC Triangle on the bow! is your

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW voRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

It You Miss This Wenderful
PHOTODRAMA

You Will Regret It But Once!
And That Will Be All The Time

Note the Date
April 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th

NEW INTERNATIONAL

DICTIONARIES are in use by business
men, engineers, ers, judges, archi-
tects, physicians, farmers, teachers, li-
brarians, clergymen, by successful
men and women the world over.

ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN?
The New Internctional isan all-knowing

teacher, auniversal question answercr.

400,000 Vocabulary Te 2700 Pa;
Mustrations, Colored Pests $0,000 eon
ical Subjects, 12,000 Blographical Entries,

Regular and India-Paper Editions.

Weite for 8per-
imen Pages, I-
lustrationy, ete,

ree, a act of
Pocket Maps if
you name this
Paper. .

guarantee, Ask any

