PRE-OPENING

SEPT. 7 & 8

THEDA

l.

ISSUE

ONIA

Vol. VIII.

President Martin Welcomes

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. AUGUST 18. 1920.

Davidson Spirit Rings True in Letter

The Old and New Men

To the Davidson Students :

A few words as to the coming
year will, I hope, be of interest to
you. °
A hearty welcome to the best the
college has to offer, awaits all, both
old and new studeéhts. I trust you
come in the spirit that will enable
each man to achieve the best results
from the year’s work.

We shall be crowded—it seems to
be Davidson's fate just now. We

Ware turning a distressingly large

number away, but we must not over-
crowd. Conditions this year will call
for the best in each one of you, but
with the old Davidson spirit behind
you and a manly determination on
the part of each man to do his best
and to see that every other man has
the fullest and freest opportunity to
do his best, we shall make it the
greatest year we have had and a
stepping stone to a higher and
greater life for the college.

We have not yet been able to do
all we wished and had in mind to
do; but we have done all we could
do under the circumstances to pre-
pare for the “Bigger and Better
Davidson.”

The new laundry promising a
greater convenience and a more hy-

‘gienic care of clothing will be ready

at the opening, so Mr. Jackson re-
ports.

Miss Shumaker’s Boarding House
1s being enlarged to éare for 150 to
200 men and the board will be given
at as low a price as possible for good
and wholesome fare. The college
will not conduct this or any board-
ing place, but owning the house we
have enlarged it and put it into the
hands of Miss Shumaker to give the
best board at the lowest possible
price.

It was found early last spring that
it would be impossible to build this
year the new domrmitory, which we
have all felt. the need for. The money
for this purpose, while pledged, had
not been collected; futhermore, if
we had the money in hand it would
have been impossible to build in
time for use this session.

So universally did it appear that
the old students were returning this
fall that it soon became evident that
either we must take half or less the
number of new men accepted last
year, which would have given us the
smallest Freshman Class in the last

-ten years, or we must provide

quarters for more students, and ac-
cept at least a total of 500. The
latter course was decided to be the
wisest. We are erecting 32 tem-
porary but quite comfortable rooms

_which will accomodate 64 or, more

students. These are so built that we
believe they will be the quietest
rooms on the campus. Four rooms
open on a common hall which has
toilet conveniences in one end. There
are four units of this kind adjoining
but not communicating and there

i —— eee

are two rows of these units. They
are in the grove just east of the
water tower,

Even with this it was found that
to house the 500 it called for quite
a number of rooms to have three
occupants. None of us like this
arrangement, but most high grade
and popular colleges are having just
now to suffer it.

We believe that Davidson men
will have backbone enough -to pre-
serve order and retain a student
atmosphere in their rooms. We are
counting on you to do this for your
own sake and in the interest of your
college. Is it not a fine thing that
so many from such a wide area want
ta come to Davidson? Let us all
strive earnestly to preserve those
high ideals and splendidly whole-
some conditions which have given
the college such a priceless reputa-
tion. You can do it even under the
crowded conditions and I 4elieve
you will. Just as soon as possible
we will build more dormitbdries,
class rooms and laboratories.

We will have three new teachers
this year, and Dr. J. W. MacConnell
again takes up his classes.

Dr. Frazer Hood comes to us from
Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois. He is a southern man who
taught in Tennessee until called into
war work. He is a graduate of
Southwestern Presbyterian Univer-
sity and Johns Hopkins University
and will teach two courses each in
Education and Psychology.

Prof. Edward J. Erwin is called
to the second chair of English and
will make a splendid running mate
for Dr. Shewmake. He has been for
some years Associate Professor of
English in the University of Missis-
sippi and for one year was head of
the department in the absence of the
senior professor. Mr. Erwin knows
Davidson, having there received the
Bachelor and Master’s degrees with
honor. He was, for two years, a
student in Columbia University,
New York, and this summer is at
the University of Chicago.

Dr. E. A. Byers comes to us to
teach German and Spanish. He re-
ceived his degrees from the Univer-
sity of Nebraska. If we are able to
judge from correspondence we shall
have in him a splendid teacher, a
kindred spirit and a helpful friend.

These all will throw their lives in-
to the college and join with the
faculty of longer tenure at David-
son to serve the students to the best
of their ability.

Never did the college face a
brighter future, never have we had
so large a faculty nor one better
equipped for service, and never have
we had so large a student body nor
a better one.

College opens September 9. Let
us all come to put every man his
shoulder to the wheel, to push the
old college onward and upward, and

Sn

d

Fane \ 1

58

J

Y. M. C. A. WILL BE
ON JOB EARLY.

Less than a month until Davidson
opens! The Y. M. C. A. is eargerly
looking forward to seeing the old
men again and to knowing the new
men. It is good to think of being
together on the campus—pretty as it
was when we left this Spring—to
renew old friendships and torm new
ones.

This year Davidson is preparing
for the largest enrollment in her
lustory. Not only is she preparing
for a “bigger Davidson” but for a
“better Davidson.” The Davidson
spirit, which after all is something
of the spirit of the Master, must
ever be cherished. In this the “Y”
would have its part. ' ‘s the pur-
pose of the “Y" tos  « ‘or Jesus
Christ on the campus— » introduce
men to Him and to streagthen those
who know Him. We would caution
the new men even before entering
to “stand fast in the faith, quit ye
like men, be strong.” It is an easy
matter in the busy routine and
crowded days of college life to
drift away if you neglect the Master
in your own life.

In the “Y” work.this year we will
greatly miss Mr. Miles as secretary.
Every effort has been made by the
Board of Control to secure just the
right man to take his place but so
far these efforts have been un-
successful. The Board has not
ceased its efforts however, and may
yet have a secretary to greet you on
your return to Davidson. In any
event we need not,be discouraged
for with the full co-.peration of the
men we have at Davidson, as well
as that of the faculty, the work of
the “Y” can and will go forward.
After all it is the spirit of the Mas-
ter that counts and in Him we are
trusting for a great year at David-

son.
Y. M.C. A.
LEWIS SCHENCK, Pres.

el

.

T. C. WINTER PASSES AWAY
SUDDENLY. r

Coliege office has been, notified
that T. C. Winter lied sufidenly at
his home in Savannah, August 11th.
This will come as a shock to the en-
tire student body and the sympathy
of his fellow students will go out to

the bereaved family. |
en ace

Davidson by gifts off money—large
and small—is the bj:st investment
they can possibly make.

Dr. Sentelle as Dean will take a
good deal of work off my hands. I
hope this will give me more time to
serve the students in other ways.
One result.I know it will have: I
shall have more time to give to the
individual student for conference
about his problems. I trust they
will use me freely.

In Davidson bonds,
Sincefely your friend,
Wn. J. Martin.

to prove to our ia that helping

os

From President of Student Body

New Men Will Be Quickly Intro-| ficult knots to untie and our chances
duced to College Spirit. will be greatly increased with an
early start.

From all reports, those men who| All of the football equipment has
are coming in tltls year to compose | been ordered and most of it has al-
the class of '24, are men who can be}ready. arrived. We _ have better
counted on to accomplish big things | equipment and much more of it than
and will doubtless reach and even|ever before. Arrangements have
surpass the standard already set for|been made for a training table and
them by the faculty, the student|so all that remains is for us to get
body and the College as a-whole. __ | back and get to work and I feel sure

But no matter how ‘bright their|that when the smoke has cleared
chances seem for a successful career |away we will not find ourselves at
in our midst, the co-operation of|the bottom of the list, by any means.
every upper-classmen in aiding them| With best wishes to you all,I am,
is absolutely essential to their wel- Sincerely yours,
fare. We must remember that for H. M. Grey.
the first few weeks in college, a

Freshman is a rank stranger in a/ TQ THE MEMBERS OF THE

very strange land. They know noth-
ing of the tasks they must perform ; GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB

they have never understood exactly . ——_——_—
what the words “College Spirit’| In the absence of a secretary, I
mean. In other words, they are just/am writing to let you know that our
as green as you were on first enter-|slogan “500 students for 1920-1921”
ing school away from home. is practically realized. Dr. Martin
These men must be made to feel|has written that 500 students have
at home. Each one must be made to| been entered for next year and that
feel as though he is a distinct unit|the college cannot take any more.
in the student body, and that he|The Greater Davidson Club does not
must lend some service and do some | claim all the credit for this large en-
good for the College in return forjrollment, but unquestionably you
what she will do for him. The respon-|have done your part and deserve
sibility of instituting such spirit in-] much credit. 1 am sending this
to the minds and hearts of the new|brief word to remind you that the
men rests almost entirely on the|motto of our Club includes not only :
upper-classmen. All of us have been|the plan to make Davidson bigger,
at Davidson long enough to know] but also to make it better. Now that
what “Davidson Spirit” has meant|we have helped to make the college
to us and to her. Every new man| bigger, let us stress the second part
needs your help in every way youjof our motto and do our best to
are possibly able to render him aid.|make it better. For Davidson not
So let’s get together, upper-class-|to grow better as it grows bigger
men, one and all, and further the} would be a serious misfortune. We
interests of our College in every way | must take a firmer stand than ever
possible by combining our every|for all those fine characteristics and
effort in soliciting the aid of the en-| traditions of our campus life which,
tire Freshman Class and making|taken together, make up what we
them realize the great responsibility |call the “Davidson Spirit.” These
placed upon them in reaching the|traditions (include honesty and
goal we all expect to attain. truthfulness in our class work ; fair
A. L. Currie, play and clean sportsmanship in all

President of Student Body. |athletic contests; friendliness and
democracy in all student relations

ATTENTION FOOTBALL MEN.

Dear Men:
In view of the fact that college
will not open until September 9, an
that our first game is a heavy one;
it has been deemed wise to call all
men who expect to go out for foot-|
ball, back for early season practice.
The first practice will begin on the
afternoon of September 1.
Forty-five of the old men have
agreed to return early and I hope
that as many of the new men as
pessible will endeavor to get in by
that time. Arrangements have been
made for rooms and board.
Uniforms will not be issued until
the third day of practice so bring
a baseball uniform or a track suit
along if you can get one.
With what information I have
everything looks pretty
goo

d resol

and activities; and that respect and
regard for the rights of others
which characterizes the conduct of
every Christian gentleman. In our
ution last spring we agreed to
practice these things in our contact
with each other and with the public.
Beginning with the day you leave
home to enter college, bear in mind
what we resolved to do and to be,
and let us live up to our resolution.
We have helped to make Davidson.
bigger, and now have a splendid op-
portunity to make it better. I be-
ieve you will embrace the opportu-
nity. With best wishes always, I
am,
Sincerely yours,
J. M. McConnell.

President Martin and his family
have been occupying their cottage

fair for ajat Montreat. Dr. Martin spent the
season, though it is impossible / month of June at his office in Da-

to make any definite statement this| vidson and has made frequent trips
far ahead. We have several dif-/back and forth since.

=.

START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT BY BEING ON TIME
