4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

Open Forum

WHY NOT?

“Hats off to Prof. Erwin. As the old
negro said, “He has done the undoable.”
Dut of chaos, he brought forth a minstrel
show that would do credit to a profes-
sional organization.

For a long time, the need of just such
an occasion each year has been felt.
When the announcement was made that

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 6
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
———
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
Lee eee eee ee

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

————————

i for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Arti fonday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
eS a

———
emaecnececeeenennceweewnenesecs Editor-in-Chief

} E. CASSELL ---------—--—~ — . ~-77-""Hanaging Editor Senior Speaking would be done away

AP. ORMOND... _.---+_---------~----2- === === Assistant Managing Editor with and that we would have a Senior

J. P. PRICE_...-- ea nennw nanan nnn nnn—n- n= Assi mment Editor Week all but the Seniors were sorry.
een can eaceencenneencenccecnennenneeneen= etic Editor :

MR DOUBLES nono Aluen itor | hen the “ire” come on the hill and to

7. Cc McCASKILL_.------------------~-------------------------- Exchange Editor eon the hill and to

take away one of these was a calamity.

eeccenne eeneswnsnoceseeree seenen=s, Forum Editor
, B BOUL WARE no Com us Editor | No one then believed that the proposed
D. W. ROBERTS.. S&S | A Editor Senior Week would amount to a row of
HL A. HI ope na nene enna nnn nnn = iE EGitor [pins But Prof. Erwin has shown them
ee Retry meena aa —_. Oficial Photographer | all that they were wrong.

Now that we have done this much, why
can’t we take one step more, why can’t
we form a Dramatic Club. The show
the other night made it clear that the

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H.

G.
BOER, W j MANHOOD, D. L- OoOEND, we talent is not lacking, all they need is
GHAM, CE. MAUZE UL, W- M. SUMMERS, A. C. leading and training.

Let this club give two plays each year,
one at Junior Speaking and one at
Commencement.

PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

DAVIDSON, R. F.

C. J. MATTHEWS....------------------- 27-2272 enn nnn Business Manager| In the first place, this would help to
liven up these two occasions. Junior
E, A. NASH } eecnecnene os — .----Assistant Managers | Speaking couldn’t be hurt with a little
J. S. CURRY added life, and as for commencement
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: anything would liven it, maybe by it a

C. H. LONG... + _~----Circulation Manager | few fellows could be induced to stay.
J. C Woo: -----Assistant Manager| And then, it would be a fine way for

) Fenn n nn ESEEINUN TOGNT SPINS
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. some of the fellows to give vent to their

theatrical instincts. There may be many
on the hill, who would be glad to give
most of their time to an enterprise of
this sort.
The powder is all ready, all that is
needed is for somebody to light the fuse.
P. J.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

AREPLY.

In reply to the gentleman last week on
changing the present fall term exam
dates, I would like to ask if this present
system is not really a privilege. Under
present conditions we enjoy getting
home and having a good time so much
that we don't worry about our reports

EDITORIAL

We are wondering if the functioning of the Audit Board and the
Point System has ceased to be. Th.re can be no doubt that these should
be put into proper execution again promptly.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

We wish you the best of luck, Seniors, in fooling the Faculty about
those coming exams.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

A HAPPY CHRISTMAS TO YOU.

“wa HIS issue marks our final effort for the fall term. We trust that
I we have served you well, for the Staff has been faithful in its ef-
forts to give you a Davidsonian equal to any college paper. As
this is our last chance to speak a word to you this fall, we wish to extend
to every student our very best wishes for a Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year. .
The time will soon arrive when school duties will be forgotten for
a while, and our attention will be turned to less serious and unimpor-
tant things. The feeling of freedom that results from this emancipa-
tion will almost engulf you, but with it all we would add a word of cau-
tion that you never once fail to remember that you are a true son of
Davidson. As such then conduct yourself throughout the Holidays in a
way that will only reflect credit and honor upon our institution. With
a high ideal of this nature, the coming vacation will hold forth its best
rewards of good times and pleasures. Again we wish you the happiest
of Holiday seasons. .
—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

AND THEY SHALL RECEIVE OUR PRAISE.

To our football team and Coach Grey this issue is dedicated. The
gridiron season of 1920 is now a thing of the past, but it is with a sense
of pride and admiration that we recall the work of our team and coach.
While some may say that our record is not a brilliant one, yet it is of
such a nature as to reflect. credit and honor upon this college. After all,
it is not the fumber of victories that really count, but it is the spirit that
characterizes the Red and Black players upon the field. Davidson’s
athletic reputation is not founded upon victorious teams. Such a foun-
dation is too unstable, for all teams have their off seasons. It is based
rather upon that clean playing and fighting spirit characteristic of the
Wildcat teams, and this being the case our football team of 1920 magnifi-
cently increased rather than detracted from Davidson’s fame in the
realm of sports. For this reason every student, alumnus and backer of
our college is proud of it. ;

Beginning the season with the hardest schedule that ever confront-
ed a Davidson football team, and handicapped by only one Varsity back-
field man around which to build an offence, Coach Grey responded
with everything in his power and succeeded nobly in his work. That the
student body believes in him is shown by phe fact that he is backed to
the limit by every man on the campus. While at other colleges rumors
are coming thick and fast that certain new coaches will be dismissed be-
cause their teams did not get more than an even break on the season,
it is with pleasure that we can state that Coach Grey has the whole-
hearted support of the student body. With better prospects for next
season, our confidence rests supreme that out football mentor will show

—_——

until they actually come. Besides this,
isn’t it better to have the thoughts of
exams off our minds instead of wonder-
ing whether we will stand a showing
when we return? Anticipation always
hurts worse than realization, especially
so with exams that we fear we won't
pass. Another statement he made sounds
extremely doubtful. Don’t we return
after Christmas rather the worse physi-
cally and mentally too than with rested
and refreshed minds? Don’t we come
nearest to being homesick and unsettled
mentally in the first week after our re-
turn from home than at any other time
in the year? Fellows, since the Czar
Absence Regulations have reduced our
privileges so much let us not make mat-
ters worse by trying to cram for exams
after we have had the time of our young
lives. This change might be compared
to following the Christmas dinner with
quinine tablets instead of after dinner
mints.
Titus.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

GROUCHES.

The editor of the Davidsonian in one
of the editorials in the last issues makes
reference to “grouches” on the campus.
Knowing the connection as we do we
would like to say that it is our belief
that the editor has made an error in his
designation.

A grouch is not one who in tlie per-
formance of his duty attempts to have
an explanation of some action which he
does not understand. That there are
grouches and sore-heads on the canipus
all will admit, some with and some with-
out cause. But this term should not be
applied to those who in an_ honest
endeavor to further the interests of cer-
tain college organizations and a closer
degree of harmony between factions re-
quests that the reasons for a supposed

Read the exchanges in the Library.

OVER THIRTY STUDENTS LEAVE
University of Mississippi

Ovér thirty students have left the Uni-
versity of Mississippi due to recent
trouble over fraternities and dances.
The Board of Trustees had drawn up a
questionnaire which they required every
fraternity man to sign by “high noon,”
Wednesday, November 10. This ques-
tionnaire was duly signed by some of
the students, most of whom belonged to
fraternities before coming to Ole Miss.
There were others, however, who were
consciously opposed to filling out the
questionnaire, and. to prevent trouble on
the campus, withdrew like men.

It had seemed that factionalism had
been killed and that strife between the
frat men and the anti-frat had come to
an end. The hole made in the ranks by
the departure of these men and those
who withdrew for other reasons is al-
ready noticed and their absence felt.

—From the Mississippian.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

The second edition of QUEENS BLUES
is a decided improvement over the first
edition. They have a real college news-
paper, and are to be congratulated on
their success in the journalistic field.

Another exchange that has made its
appearance on the Davidsonian list is
the SALEMITE. The Thanksgiving ex-
tra contains all of the college songs and

grievance be gone over so that both) yells.

sides may continue to work for the best
interests of the college.

It is the opinion of the writer that
most of the fellows do believe that
“things here on the campus are being
run on the level” until they have reason-
able proof to doubt that fact. However,
when we get the sworn statement of
those in a position to know that some-
thing is not being run on the level we

(Continued on page 5)

WYON'T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. i

Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of !
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than
true if it’s a W DC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi-

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

The Wampire Edition of the VAN-
DERBILT HUSTLER is the boldest we
have seen this year. With’ large five
column headline VANDERBILT-SEWA-
NEE GAME FRAMED UP it tapers
down to the double column headline
PROFESSOR CURRY IS CAUGHT
WASHING DIRTY COLORED WIN-

(Continued on page 5)

the gridiron fans of the South something new and startling in this
branch of athletics. 1g loet.
—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

IT 1S UP TO YOU.

The exam schedule is now out. You have no doubt already count-
ed the days until you leave. The excitement that surges over you when
you think of soon being at home perhaps gives you the thought that just
to get through those coming duties in any sort of slipshod fashion will
be sufficient. Do not fool yourself like this. The success of your work
this fall can either.be made or unmade in the short remaining three
weeks of this term. The feeling of satisfaction that is derived from
college work does not come to the student who just slips by in any sort
of way ; it comes only to that student who puts his best into his college
duties. It is such a student who enjoys and gets the most out of the
coming vacation. Which will you be? It is left entirely to you. No
one can make you put your best into your work. Surely, however, the
right thinking boy will not be guilty of shoddy work. Buck up and hit
the line hardest at this time, for now is your final opportunity to make

good..

Da io, suas

plied many. times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack.
Smoke a cool one every time, ahd you'll be well on your
way to pipe-happiness.

|

ii
We. DEMUTH & CO... NEW YORK i

WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS Mh
ian
rel

AW aya “RR i

