The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief

j. S___ Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND.-.----------------.---------------- == -Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE.....--------.--------------------------.+---------- ssignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES...--...._.-~-.~-2 2-2 o-oo enna Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHENL----..-~22------- --~ +--+ ne -ee. Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL..-.._.__..-.._.--...------------------- = += Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE..--.-_.-~...-.--.---. --------------------------- Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP. _.....-..--------------------- 22-22-22 === Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.....-.~.----------~------~--.---- +--+ -- ee Y, M.C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL..W_._...-..---------------~-~-~----- +--+ --- +--+ += Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.-------------------encenene nme cneneennnnnneeee ee Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE____----_----- oon Official Photographer |

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, R. LONG, C. G. L OGDEN, D. H.
COOPER, W. J. MAUZE, G. W. ORMAND, A. C.

CUNNUNGHAM, C. E. MITCHELL, A. M. SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

MAHOOD, D.

Open Forum

SENSE OF HUMOR.

Our friend of ’22 appeared with the

‘article on “Matters of Regret” in last |
| week's issue.
agree with him in reference to per- |

No doubt that most of us

sonal remarks to the opposing players,
but who can find fault with the yell
given for the whole —— team. This is
only used as a sense of humor and not
as a reflection on the team or the col-
lege, and every broad minded man looks
at it in this light. If this is to be stop-
ped, why not stop the band from play-
ing, “Hail, Hail, the Gangs All Here,”
and the students stop singing it. There
is no difference; one is just as pleasing
to the ear as the other, and the person
that objects to one should object to the
other. Ali of us know that when a band
of five hundred boys get loose after be-
ing in Davidson for six weeks, forget
themselves to a certain extent, but the
behavior at the game in Charlotte was
exceedingly good, and there is no kick
coming. Of course it is good to remind
us of our faults, but the fellow that re-
minds: us must practice what he
preaches. If the sentiment of the stu-
dents is to cut this yell out, then cut it

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
_Room.

A MODERN HOMER.

| When Homer smote his bloomin’ lyre
He smote his way to fame;

| Bat many million simple souls

Have never heard his name.

When Babe Ruth smites the bloomin’
ball,

And smites it o’er the fence,

His homer niakes the Grecian one

Resemble thirty cents.

—Chicago Tribune.
——_—__ D_—_ _-—_____

The Senior class of Howard College
has begun a movement for the adoption
of a standard ring to be worn by all
graduates of the institution.

The trustees of Howard favor the re-
moval of the college from its present
location to Woodlawn, and is putting on

C. J. MATTHEWS..--------------------- --------------------- Business Manager . . foot a campaign for a fund of $500,000

SH out, and along with it cut out our old for this purpose—From The Howard
a Assistant Managers jfavorite song. Then what will be used Crimson
J. S. CURRY when we are down but to sit up and D.

look like a bunch of sicks. "44. TT
ULATION DEPARTMENT:
GH LONG... penne nnn n nen enn = 2 -- =e Circulation Manager —_—_ pp A LATIN VERSE.
"WOOL 2 nnn nn nnn n-nonane nnn nnn e nee ene eee ssistant Manager ——

ue Woon atronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. SUBSTITUTE FOR Boyibus kissibus sweeti girlorum

EDITORIAL

The Spider’s web was a little bit stronger than we anticipated, as

the Wildcats were able to puncture it only once. This will do for the first ]ing. But we do not intend to argue in|

time, though.
ime r4

If the proposed plan to run individual pictures of the Freshmen and
Sophomores is carried through, no doubt some chance reader of the
1921 Annual will think that is an illustrated catalog of—, well, we will
not say what. D

It seems as if we will not get a half holiday for the Citadel game. Let’s
go anyhow by having a special train leave here after all classes are
over. We owe this much to the team.

Have you begun to put into practice some of those principles of real
Christian manhood as outlined by Dr. Weatherford?
HANDS OFF, PLEASE.

TTENTION has already been called to the fact that the Staff is
A very sorry some of the students take it upon themselves to ap-

propriate their copies of The Davidsonian before the Circulation
Manager 1s ready to dispose of same, yet we do not think it amiss to
put this in writing.

As already stated, we are glad that the boys are so anxious to receive
their paper, but at the same time we would remind them that it is an
inconvenience to us as well as a violation of the United States Govern-
ment postal regulations. These papers are handled through the mails,
and the postal authorities absolutely will not stand for any meddling of
this nature.

Just enough copies are ordered each week to cover the student body
and subscription list needs, and any promiscuous taking of the papers!
will naturally result in the forcing of someone to go without his issue.
Our subscription list must be protected, hence they come first and any
shortage will fall upon the students. We are sure that a little thought-
lessness was the cause of this incident, as we do not believe that any
Davidson man wants to inconvenience a fellow student. In the future,
men, we ask that you kindly give the Circulation Manager time to get
the paper out. He is doing his best although handicapped by the fact
that the addressograph plates have not been received, and this neces- |
sitates that you co-operate with him by being patient.

WE ARE HARD PUT.

At the beginning of this session certain plans were elaborated by
which it was shown that our publication was to be a ten page paper,
but as already observed, no doubt, this program was only adhered to for
the first two issues. Perhaps attention should have been called to this
long ago, yet an optimistic view of hoping to attain the goal has caus-
ed us to refrain from doing so. The reason is simply the lack of funds
sufficient to carry through without a heavy loss a ten page issue. The
cost of printing has advanced 30 per cent over last year, and this ad-
vance coupled with the additional cost of the extra two pages has made
it absolutely impossible to get out more than eight pages. We re-

gret this very much as two more pages of live news could easily be
filled each week.

_ Another effect of the adva
increased number of ads w

need expense of printing is to be seen in the

1 nu: ; € are compelled to run. The entire cost of

our publication practically has to be met by the revenues derived from
advertising. The income from the Blanket fee and subscriptions is negli-
gible, thus in order not to edit the Paper on a losing basis we are forced
to run about 40 per cent advertising matter. All other college publica-
tions have been compelled to resort to even a higher increase in their
advertising, so we trust that our position in this matter will be readil
y understood and appreciated.

In order to overcome the lack of space to some extent the St
after careful consideration of the matter, has decided to change the size
of the type, using a smaller print. By taking advantage of this we will
be able to increase the amount of news by ten per cent at least. Uncon-
trolable circumstances have /forced these changes upon us, and we
trust that our readers will bear with us in such matters. You may rest
assured that the Staff is bending every effort to make up in quality what
is lost in quantity, and in this way to maintain and even better the

_ standard of “The Livest Wire on the Hill.”

SENIOR SPEAKING

Social life at Davidson, as little as
there is of it, must now be more curtail-
ed by the elimination of Senior Speak-

favor of trying to revive this out-of-
date function.
thing that will appeal both to the stu-
dents and the general public as much
as the speakings were said to do in the
years gone by long before our day. Now
we suggest that a movement already on
foot to have a minstrel given by the
Senior class (its personnel composed en-
titely of Seniors), be encouraged as
much as possible. The plans, roughly
speaking, are: That we set apart two
nights with the preceding days, the first
night to be a stunt night in athletics,

J including jiu-jitsu, and this would be a

competition between the three lower
classes for prizes. To keep this first
night. from being too monotonous the
band and Glee club or both could give
a concert. On the second night the Se-
tiior class could present the minstrel.
But of course there could be several
variations of this schedule to suit the
tastes of the various Senior classes. For
instance, the first day might he taken as
a class day in athletics, as we already
have in the spring, but if we put these
plans into operation we could have the
affair come off at about the time Senior
Speaking came formerly, thus giving
us two class days in athletics, one in the
fatt and the other in the spring. On the
second afternoon there might be an in-
terclass baseball or football game.

The initial start won't be so hard, for
Professor Erwin has had a great deal of
experience along these lines and has
‘agreed to take charge of the minstrel,

Instead we want some- ,

Girlibus likibus, wanti somorum,

Pater puellatee, enter parlorum,

| Kickibus boyibus, exibus doorum,

Nighibus darkibus, noum lamporum,

_Climibus fencibus, breechibus torum.
———_p_—_____

The Centre College Cento is welcomed
into our exchanges. We watch with
-interest and admiration the success of
[the Centre football team, and besides
-having a good foothalt team they have
a good semi-monthly paper.

Plans for an additional endowment of
| $140,000 for Centre College are being
laid by Dr. Ganfield and his associates
among tlhe alumni.

Last spring a total of $557,000 for the
endowment of the college, was announc-
ed by Dr. Ganfield, with a goal of $600,-
-000. Of this sum, $300,000 is contingent
upon the raising of an additional $100.-
000 to round out the complete sum of
' $600,000, and it is the $100,000 which Dr.
:Ganfield now seeks to raise.

Db

VICE-PRES. CANDIDATE
SPEAKS FROM TRAIN

: Governor Coolidge, Republican candi-
jdate for Vice-President, accompanied by
Governor Lowden of Illinois, and Mor-
row of Kentucky, on his special train,
stopped at Davidson, fast Friday, on his
‘way to Charlotte, and spoke for a few
i minutes to the members of the faculty
and student body who had gathered at
the station to see him pass thru.
Governor Coolidge did not mention
politics in his short speech. He stated
that the assertion that a man’s happiest
idays were spent in college was not truce:
but that they came when a man was

. . 1. overcomin t y i
provided the faculty gives permission to He advis a a ne real problems of life.
. Se Ps
stage such an affair. But surely the! we students to prepare for

faculty would not deny us this since
they have removed a social function and
have provided no substitute, and besides '
it would be under faculty supervision |
and the faculty could eliminate any ob-
jectionable features.

We could give the money taken in to
the Y. M.C. A. for the publication of the
Handbook each year, thus providing the
college with a firstclass handbook.

So it is up to the class of ’2t to get
behind this project and make it one big
success, thus setting a precedent for an
annual affair. Besides this, the class of
‘21 would be making a distinct contribu-
tion to the life of the campus. Go to it.
Seniors, we are all behind you.

Secretary.
D———_____

Miss Mary Rosebro, Miss Carter, and
Mrs. C. S. Brown came over from Cleve-
land, N. C., for Saturday's game. Mrs.

aff| Brown is the mother of C.K. Brown,

president of the Cox-Roosevelt Club.
C. K. and E. H. Brown returned with
the party to Cleveland for a week-end
visit.

M. D. Field, who received an injury
as a result of Saturday's football game
is reported as getting along nicely,

the problems that would come after col-
lege days.

| e

i

Youu smoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe,

A because it’s a sweet, mellow
Pipe connoisseurs and have three, four,

on your rack. Smoke a cocl
know what a real smoke is.

you with several select shapes,
WM. DEMUTH & CO., NE

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS “OP

rea i
) se

i

as

LOOKING BACKWARD.
GLIMPSES OF DAVIDSON

| FIVE YEARS AGO

Football.

“The Yellow Jackets have to fight hard
to win. Superior weight of Tech team
‘tells in third quarter. Score: 21-7. Black
‘scored the touchdown and Grey kicked
goal for the Red and Black. For Da-
| vidson, the punting of C. Walker. the line
| plunging of Laird, Black and Keesler
; were the features.”

“At a meeting of the ‘wearers of the
D,’ held in the drawing room of the
squad's private car, while en route to
i Atlanta to meet Georgia Tech, C. L.
| Walker was elected captain of the 1915-
'46 eleven to succeed “Big” McKinnon,
;who failed to return to college.”

Tennis.

“The doubles of the annual tennis
tournament have been ‘completed. Fin-
iley and Finley, the expected champions,
were defeated by Barnett and Ken-
nedy.”

Evangelistic Campaign.

“The fall evangelistic campaign was
conducted by Dr. Chapman and Mr.
Alexander. Its success was phenome-
nal, largely due to the extensive prepa-
ration and to the emphisas placed on
private interviews.”

—————EE

MEN WANT:

Men who are not for sale.

Men who are honest to the core.

Men who know their message and tell
it. .
Men who know their duty and do it.
Men who know their place and fill it.
Men who will never swagger or flinch.
Men too large for certain limits and
too strong for sectarian bands.

Men whose consciences are as steady
jas the needle to the pole.

Men who are not too lazy to work,
and too proud to be poor.

Men who will stand for the right
though the heavens totter and the earth
reels.

Men who can tell the truth, and look
the world and the devil right in the eye.

Men who will condemn wrong in
friend or foe—in themselves as well as
others.

Men who can have courage without
whistling for it. and joy without shout-
ing for it.

Men through whom the current of
everlasting life runs still, and deep, and
strong.

These are men that achieve something
worth while and accomplish the grand-
est and noblest purposes of life.

D.
DO YOU WANT A GOOD 1921
QUIPS AND CRANKS?

We'll say we do. But—

We need the help of the entire student
body. We need:

Comic Sketches

Comic Snapshots

Bushes on any of the boys

Funny Short Stories

One-Act Tragedies (?)

Parodies on Poems

ANYTHING SNAPPY.

Give us your help by handing some-
thing in.

It is your duty.

Shall we have a good Annual?
up to YOU!

Sce “Bobbie” Long, No. 2 Rumple.

It’s

smoke. Follow the old
or more WDC Pipes f
one every time. Then you'll

Any good dealer will furnish

W YORK
FINE Pipes

