rr,

Pennants
College Belts,
Freshman Caps,
Tennis Rackets,
Golf Balls

and

.

Sweaters

are a few of the
items you can

buy

THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920.

‘duce and the Merchant Marine is OLTMAN AND FOSCUE
the only solution. SPEAKER AT POLITY CLUB
McIlwaine stated that the mod-
ern inventions of Americans made Despite the fact that college ac-
their ships so swift, they could tivities have heen greatly disturbed
charge more and get more trade lately, the Polity Club held a very
than foreign vessels. interesting and profitable meeting
The negative argued that the’ on last Tuesday night. Quite a good-
motive of increasing the Merchant ly number were present, including
Marine was a selfish one. The rich Dr. Lingle and Professor Shew-
men were trying to get richer at make, who are great benefactors to
the expense of the government and the club, taking great interest in
other people. They argued that it making the programs lively with
was not necessary and not profitable original suggestions. Both by care-
to increase the Merchant Marine at fully selected readings and by in-
this time. They argued that the U. formal discussions, information of
S. was trying to lord it over the worldwide importance and incal-
weaker nations by building so many culable value is brought before the
-ships. The government should pay club, in such a way as to be impres-
up her war debts before the people sive.
are taxed for anything else. P. D. The first reading of the evening
Miller proved himself to be the was a paper on Japan, by Oltman.
orator of the evening and he In dealing with this subject he rath-
brought down a storm of applause | er sympathized with this great pow-

LITERARY NEWS

‘EU’S DEBATE MERCHANT
MARINE QUESTION.
PHI’S ELECT OFFICERS

Miller the Orator of the Occasion.
' Foscue Elected President.

x * * * “ *

+
PROGRAMS

Phi Society, February 21.
Regular Debate _
Affirmative : Negative:
Brown, C. K. Brown, F.
Baldwin, J. Booker, E.
3ooth, N. R. Farmer, J.
EEntemporaneous Debate
Affirmative : Negative :

eee EHR HE RHE EEKRH ERR RE HRHE He HARE HHH SE

o2r

eee EERE HHH HER HHH HE RH EER RHR TE HE

Hall, R. L. Deaver, R. R. from the house. President McGirt | er, containing three-fourths o the
Declamation : Hodgin, C. E. made his inaugural address, in which! people of the world, and on whom
Oration : Gaston, J. M. -he stated that his platform was|the various nations of the world
Eumenean Society. efficiency. The House adjourned for, have been casting eyes of suspicion
Section 1. February 21. -the picture show. for years. Even though Japan is

_ Regular Debate . _ looking forward to unlimited ex-
Affirmative: Negative : RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS. pansion, is not this perfectly nat-

Toney, F. K.

Cooper, N.
J Hunter, J. E.

¢ WM, GOB ural for a nation so thickly popu-
sorrells, 43, 1.

lated, so limited by territorial

,* Carwille, P. B. Fewell, E.D. *, In October, 1920, one Rhodes pounds, and a nation so ambitious
'* Davidson, R. F. Harrell, Wa Scholar will be selected in each state. for a successful future? Has not
er ea 8 Bethea, r ‘p. #:0f the American Union to receive. America had the same spirit a ag-

ra : Jo ‘ . iveness,< a t shown

i three hundred pounds sterling an-:8Tessiveness,and has she no

Section 2. February 23. : pow gan iit by her actions in the past? Japan
| Regular Debate — -nually to enable him to pursue his has long heen the sleeping giant, but
| Affirmative : Negative: studies in the department of his now she is the youngest of democ-

Woolfork, §. T.
Miller,. D. = McL’n, J. CB.
Bailey, J. C. Moore, W. W.
Buchin W. S. Lydenst’r, R. EE.
Declamations :
Patter’n, T. H. Whitesides, J. S.
Orations: Sullivan, W. B.

Haney, J. E. ‘choice for three years at Oxford. racies. Can the American not ap-
«/ University. In each of 16 states, in-'preciate her position? k
* eluding North and South Carolina, Foscue, the second and last speak-

* Florida, Louisiana and West Vir-,° of the evening, had prepared a
* ginia, two scholars are to be chosen | VCTY WdUe paper showing the great

de
«! at the time just named. One of the | Patt the Balkan States have taken
in the world’s business, both an-

fo + 2 i . .
‘s+ fe ee Oe ; te an his from each of these w ir cient and modern, This was follow-
et | January and the other in October, ed by a brief discussion by Dr. Lin:
Phi Society 1921. ‘At those dates the scholars | gle, showing the singularity of those

{smal i “re i -
must be above 19 and under 25 years: small nations, who were in con

| The Phis held no regular debate of age. | tinual civil strife, yet who united un-

| Saturday night. The regular pro-
gram was suspended by motion, im
order to elect officers for the in-
‘coming term.

The first officer to be elected was
President. Foscuec, Wilson, and
Hunter were nominated, but Foscue

ibeat the others by a heavy majority
land therefore he gets to handle the
iGavel. J. A. Poteat fished out the
job of vice-President. McGeachy |
lWwill have the honor to call the roll’
‘and note the fact that, “Booker
Moves, Society Adjourn, Seconded
by Spence.” Q. H. Spence, Jr.. gets
ito “Cuss-Out” the speeches, speak-

AT THE
| COMMISSARY

The faculty of Davidson is au-
thorized to choose two men from
among those who may be interested,

whom it will endorse as applicants

for appointments in North Carolina,
and also two as applicants in cach
of the other states concerned. Both
upper classmen and recent alumni
are eligible for appointment. A man
may apply for appointment in North
Carolina where Davidson is located.
or in the state of his residence, if
his home is in another state, but he
may not apply in two states.

No examinations are held, the ap-
pointments being made on the basis

ers and Criticise the Conduct of the’ of testimonials and personal inter-

thall, Long, C. G.. was named | views with the applicants. The ap-

Respondent. The Seniors were! pointments in each state are made

called on to approach the President's by a committee composed of ex-

‘chair and vote for a Valedictorian. Rhodes Scholars residing in that

'D. M. Chalmers was elected. state, this committee requiring the
_ The President announced that the: applicants to come in person for the
,Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest | interview.

j would occur on Monday night, Feb.! An all-round man with qualities of
23. Much amusement was caused leadership is sought for appointment
by Spence’s Pronounced Prominence in each state. Stress is laid espe-
when the Second Supervisor got cially on “literary and scholastic at-
busy. He was fined on no tess than tainments, fondness for and success
four Counts -by “Sec” but he was) in outdoor sports, qualities of man-
all smiles when all fines were lifted | hood, moral force of character, and

iby a motion from Wilson . (Not ‘leadership in school and college life.”

ea pe | cm

der one cause in the late war. Much
to the regret of all, Askew, who was
to have spoken, was prevented by
illness. Three new members were
elected: C, J. Matthews, W. P.
Cumming, and J. M. Dunlap. The
Polity Club will hold its next regu-
lar meeting on Tuesday night, Feb-
ruary 24, and a large attendance is
expected. The program as arrang-
ed for that date is as follows: T. H.
Spence, “The Irish Question ;” R. FE.
McClure, “Fiume,” and C. A. Mc-
Girt. “Digest of Events.”

DISASTROUS COTTON
FIRE OCCURS MONDAY

A conflagration of no small conse-
quence occurred at Davidson Mon-
day when a quantity of cotton on
the platform at the depot was
burned.

: About f o'clock p. m. the depot
agent, while attending his duties, no-
ticed smoke arising from the east
side of the platform. Quickly in-
-vestigating, he discovered that sev-
,eral bales of cotton were burning,
and the the fire was spreading rap-
idly. Immediately the alarm was
spread, and soon a water hose was

Come in and

look them over

THE
COMMISSARY

“Friend”). Davidson men everywhere may secured. After much labor the fire
apply at any time for further infor-, was practically extinguished.
mation to Prof. Thos. W. Lingle,’ The property, consisting of about
who represents the Rhodes Scholar- 125 bales, was owned by Messrs.
ship interests at Davidson, and who}

is authorized both by

Eumenean Society.

The two sections of the Eu society
met in joint session Saturday night. t J
Officers for the Monday night sec-; Foundation and by the Davidson fac-
tion were elected and then the pro- ulty to assist in every possible way '
gram was carried out, Cummings any and all Davidson men who may
was elected vice-president, R. R. ' be interested in the Rhodes Scholar-

{Craig was elected reviewer and W. ships. All who care to apply for ap-'

W. Moore was the successful candi- pointment next fall should send in | P E P S |

date for secretary. their names to Professor Lingle be-
e e
Stimulating

The subject for debate was, re-, tween now and September 10, at
solved, that the Merchant Marine; which time the faculty will select
should be increased by the U. S.| from the whole list two men for
Askew, Ogden, and Mclllwaine,| endorsement as applicants for ap-|
representing the Saturday night pointment in North Carolina, and

, two for each of the other states con-

section of the society, upheld the, e :
affirmative. C. J. Matthews, D. L. cerned. The faculty will then assist ,

Mahood and P. D. Miller, represent- the selected men in every possible’
ing the Monday night section upheld manner to get formal applications, :
the negative. The decision was. testimonials, etc., into proper shape’
won by theJatter side. and into the hands of the respective
The affirmative argued that the state committees by October 1.
time was now opportune for in- | A Davidson alumnus has just been,
creasing:the Merchant Marine, un- appointed a Rhodes Scholar for Ar-|
der present conditions the Merchant | kansas. As two scholars are to be:
Marine could be profitably handled. | appointed next October in each of
Too much money and material; the Carolinas and the other states |
would be lost if the Merchant Marine | named above, there is at least a s

were abandoned at this time. The| showing for the appointment of sev-
affirmative also stated that the U.j eral Davidson men next time, if our
S. must have an out-let for her pro-| strongest, all-round men apply.

“WITH FIRE AND SWORD”
GIVES GRAPHIC
DESCRIPTION OF POLAND

Many Things of Interest About This
Country Narrated.

Not through the exacting and

tedious outlines of events do we
learn the history of a people, but by
the historic novel we learn the spirit
and course of nations. We would
pass lightly over English history if
we had not our Scott, Thackery, and
Dickens, to imprint indelibly on our
memories the deeds of past ages in
pleasing and interesting style. But
not in our own tongue alone must
we search for historical books. Po-
land, the land of misfortune, has
laid on the altar of human endeavor
some of the sublimest works of all
time.

|

In the art of war she raised up
a hero in Kosciszko, who so es-
poused the cause of freedom that he
crossed the seas to aid us in our war
for independence. In music she has
given us Chopin and Paderewski,
but in the field of literature she has
given us Henryk Sienkiewiez.

Who has not read Quo Vadis and
viewed with horror the persecutions
of the Christians; seen the insane
excesses of Nero; heard the whis-
pered words of love between Veni-
cius and Lygia; or beheld the ele-
gance of a degrade period in the
body of Petronius. Did not this
book lead you into the Roman home
and show you in a beautiful way the
age of Nero?

Sienkiewicz did not stop with one
great work, but gave us “With Fire
and Sword” to teach us the history
of Poland in the early seventeenth
century. At first sight this appears
to be hard reading on account of the
long Slivonic names, but one soon
forgets this difficulty in reading the
story.

Every student should read _ this
book, not only because of its good
story, but because it deals with peo-
ple and places little known and often
misrepresented. The recent war
brought to our ears the names of
Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, and the
Dnieper river. Let us know some-
thing about this section of the
world and learn through the easiest
and most interesting way—by read-
ing “With Fire and Sword.”

Goodrum and Brown. It is impos-
sible to estimate the loss at present,
though it covered possibly 25 per
cent of the actual value of the cot-
ton, and was only partially covered
by insurance. The origin of the fire
is unknown.

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.

Flowers for all occasions at pop-
ular prices.

_Orders taken for delivery in any
city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts

the Rhodes! OO

Drink

-COLA

Exhiliarating

ceereeeeesceeecececeemeememmnsammmmeccmmmmamas')
a ee
' DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped

l Laboratories y
