THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

readers on the hill and should not mis-

But modern science has blasted such | cculdn’t come expression, and my breath

Note.
By consulting the Almanac we find
that Christmas comes on December 25
this year.

Brady kicked goal.

_, Advice.
Mauze says: “Be careful where you
stretch.”

Advertising. .
C. J. Matthews got his name in the
Charlotte paper last Monday.

Take It From Us!

Worth, in an essay for English V,
asks the question: “Should undergrad-
uates marry?” We judge from this that
Bill must be contemplating a radical
step in the near future. If she is good
looking, smart and has a healthy young
fortune, we say, go to it Bill. Otherwise
~—Nix.

Brady kicked goal.

We may be fools, but we do know that
the sun don’t rise and set under a cer-
tain fresh cap.

Essay on Braine.

Brains are the soft whitish convoluted
mass occupying the cranial caviety of a
vertebrate. The quantity of brains de-
pends on the size of the hole. Brains
have numerous nicknames, aliases and
names of approbrium given both because
of similarity to other materials and be-
cause of like functions. Such appella-
tions as saw-dust, ivory, bone, wood and
wheels are peculiarly fitting and appro-
priate cognomens, calling to mind at
once the purposes for which they are
chiefly employed. '

The ancients, in their search for
knowledge and explanations, assumed
that in the great plan of nature all
things had a purpose, so when they
came to brains and could find no other
reasonable use, they decided that brains
must furnish the ‘3 in 1’ necessary to the
proper functioning of man’s winking ap-
paratus.

delightful deductions of Primeval Man.
Brains are now known to be useless to
man, in fact they are an impediment to
many. But why then are brains? Maybe
another theory of our primordial ances-
tors (one tong ago disproved) can give
us an answer.

Nature abhors a vacuum—hence brains.

Essay on Man.

Man, the genus homo, is the most ver-
satile of the Vertebrata. He is usually a
sucker, but he may be anything from a
lamb to a brute. He can be a poor fish,
a skunk, a hog or a jackass at will.

Woman, the genus womo, runs man a
close second. Her range is anywhere
from a cat or a chicken to an angel. But
whatever she is, she is very often a
goose. We hasten, however, to add,
“but not always,” for fear of diplomatic
complications.

It don’t never do to say all you think.

Brady failed to kick.

We sat down a while ago and tried to
think of something with a point to it.
We thought of pitchforks, hatpins, scis-

sors, tacks, et cetera, but there's nothing

funny about that.

Someone reports that Charlie McCas-
kill was holding hands with a lady on
the campus Monday afternoon. We move
he be excused from the Bug lab he cut.

Hammett kicks Brady.

Of course I know you, Mister Eris
Cassell, of the Macamac Co.

My eyes bulged forth like toy bal-
toons, my face registered a called for but

What Is Air?

Bez 1894 every chemist thought he knew what air is. “A
Db

mechanical mixture of moisture, nitrogen and oxygen, with

traces of hydrogen and carbon dioxide,” he would explain.
There was so much oxygen and nitrogen in a given sample that he
simply determined the amount of oxygen present and assumed the
rest to be nitrogen.

One great English chemist, Lord Rayleigh, found that the nitro-
gen obtained from the air was never so pure as that obtained from
some compound like ammonia. What was the “impurity”? In
co-operation with another prominent chemist, Sir William Ramsay,
it was discovered in an entirely new gas—“argon.” Later came the
discovery of other rare gases in the atmosphere. The air we breathe
contains about a dozen gases and gaseous compounds.

This study of the air is an example’ of research in pure science.
Rayleigh and Ramsay had no practical end in view—merely the dis-
covery of new facts.

A few years ago the Research Laboratories of the General Electric
Company began to study the destruction of filaments in exhausted
lamps in order to ascertain how this happened. It was a purely
scientific undertaking. It was found that the filament evaporated
—boiled away, like so much water.

Pressure will check boiling or evaporation. If the pressure within
a boiler is very high, it will take more heat than ordinarily to boil the
water. Would a gas under pressure prevent filaments from boiling
away? If so, what gas? It must be a gas that will not combine
chemically with the filament. The filament would burn in oxygen;
hydrogen would conduct the heat away too rapidly. Nitrogen is a
useful gas in this case. It does form a few compounds, however.
Better still is argon. It forms no compounds at all.

Thus the modern, efficient, gas-filled lamp appeared, and so argon,
which seemed the most useless gas in the world, found a practical
application.

Discover new facts, and their practical application will take care
of iteelf,

And the discovery of new facts is the primary purpose of the
Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company.

Sometimes years must elapse before the practical application of a
discovery becomes apparent, as in the case of argon; sometimes a
practical application follows from the mere answering of a “theoret-
ical’? question, as in the case of a gas-filled lamp. But no substantial
Progress can be made unless research is conducted for the purpose of

discovering new facts.

General@Electric
Geert Ofce §=COm any Schenectady, N.Y,

came in immodestly short pants.

“But, sir, I have never seen you be-
fore,” I managed to stammer.

“Oh yes,” he said, as he looked at me
with an expression like a dying calf, “I
met you fifteen years ago at a velocipede
tournament.”

“That,” said my companion as we sep-
arated, “is Mr. Rot, the memory expert.
He will show you many more wonder-
ful feats before the evening is over.”

And indeed he did. He remembered
from one telling the family history of all
present. He could say backwards and
forwards a list of a hundred numbers of
nine digits cach given at random from
the audience. He knew some billion
miscellaneous items of misinformation.

He then explained his feat. By apply-
ing simple rules anyone could do it. 1
bit.

The books finally came. I was just
passing my work so I dived in. After
digesting ten volumes I decided to go on
class and try it.

I astonished my professors by the
rapidity and range of my answers. I
told them the price of eggs in Siam and
the number of little fishes in the deep
blue sea. As I said, I was just passing
my work. Now I flunk.

What has become of that old-fashion-
ed slide they used to have at the movies,
“Ladies will remove their hats?”

With Whom?

We can’t pick up a paper these days
but what we see everything from clothes
pins to steam rollers quoted at “Popular
Prices.” We don't doubt but what these
prices are popular with somebody—but

with whom?

Modern.
Phineas T, Barnum was right—but
times have changed. Now there are two
born every minute.

This Week's Bone.
Morris, H. M., interviews Fricker of
the Polity Club about the Poultry Club.

Voice: Hock der Kaiser!
Bill Miley: Hock him for all T care—
you can’t get anything for him.

—A Merry Christmas and Heppy New Year—

A QUIET THANKSGIVING
SPENT ON THE HILL

ee

Thanksgiving was a very quiet day on
-the hill this year. Practically all the
boarding houses gave their Thanksgiv-
ing dinner on Wednesday and as a re-
sult a great many students left David-
son om the afternoon trains for a short
visit home or for a good time in Char-
lotte. As a consequence Thursday found
the campus almost deserted.

The church service, which was con-
ducted at 10 o'clock by Dr. Richards, was
attended by only a few students. A great
many of them had left earlier in the
morning for a day of hunting on the
land of some nearby acquaintance or
for a long hike into the country. Some
of the students, however, preferred to
sleep alt the morning.

The post office was visited quite fre-
quently after cach mail by those look-
ing for a box of eatables from the folks
at home or possibly for something that
“she” might have sent. Practically ev-
erybody got something and it certainly
is a wonder that the Infirmary wasn't
crowded to its fullest extent Friday
morning.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy Now Year—

THE FORUM

., (Continued from page 4)
begin to look for more evidence and a
means of righting the wrong, or at least
preventing its repetition. We all know
that Davidson College is not a paradise
for it is the work of human hands. It
should be our purpose to make it as
nearly so as we can.

If we find someone who thinks more
of personal glory than he does of col-
lege interests it is our duty to use every
means at our disposal to see that he does
not get that personal glory at the ex-
pense of worthier men.

It is not our purpose to make an un-
just criticism of the editor-in-chief of
the Davidsonian in the columns of his
paper, we do not say that this refers to
him. But it does refer to his position
in the editorial cited above. He should
“give the other ‘fellow credit for being
as honest” in his-convictions as he him-
self is and work for a reconciliation.

We believe that the editor-in-chief is
doing his best to make the Davidsonian
what it should be on the hill. But he
should remember that there are no mind

take a request for enlightenment as a
knock.

An Objector.
—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

EXCHANGES

(Continued from page 4)
DOW. Everything from niurder and

theft down to ‘playing hell’ is found in

this edition on the front page. If the
reader wishes to further investigate and
tead this remarkable paper he may find
it in the library.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Girl goes to dance and then goes home.
She puts on some more clothes and then
goes to bed.

—Headline in, Vanderbilt Hustler.
—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

A. AND M. STUDENTS HAVE CLEAN.
UP DAY ON THE CAMPUS,

Last Wednesday all academic and
military duties were suspended in order
to let the student's show by actual work
that they really wanted to see A. and M.
have a clean campus. The students in-
augurated the idea and convinced the
authorities that they were in earnest.

The boys pitched in to work and be-
fore long the campus had taken on a
hew appearance.

All slackers were given a form of pun-
ishment that. has heretofore been con-
fined to Freshmen.

~The College Reflector.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

STUDENTS TO ANSWER COST OF
EDUCATION FOR
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS

; A questionnaire, the purpose of which
1s to gather facts which will enable the
Department of Economics and Sociol-
Ogy to undertake a study of the cost of
living among the students of the Uni-
versity of Kentucky, has been prepared
by the department and will be given to
all students to fill out next week.
—The Kentucky Kernel.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Mr. Carl Cathey, '20, spent a few days

with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Albert
Cathey.

New Central '
Hotel

In the center of the the-
atre and shopping
district

Thoroughly modern and
up-to-date
Where Courtesy and
Service is the motto

Make your headquarters
with us when in
Charlotte

. Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Have that

OLD SUIT
or HAT
CLEANED
or DYED

They will look

new

The Ben Vonde Co.

The best Dyers in the
South

Agency At the Powerhouse

