THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

Christian

MILLER, SCHENCK AND
ROBERTS ADDRESS
VOLUNTEER BAND

Activities

isaid that volunteers, now, to succeed

must be men in every sense of the word.
As the world, and especially the heathen

| world is so rapidly developing, in a phy- Jesus

Much Interest Shown in Discussions sical way, and those who would influence

of Volunteer Ideals and
Purposes.

On last Sunday evening the Volunteer
Band held an interesting open meeting.

A good number were present to hear
questions of importance to every college
student discussed. Three short talks
formed the program. The call to a man’s
task, was discussed by P. D. Miller.
Lewis Schenck told of the development
and ideals of the Volunteer Movement.
D. W. Roberts spoke of the Value of a
Purpose.

The word “Volunteer” implies that
there is a task to be accomplished, and
there is a task before student volunteers
today. Showing that the problems fac-
ing the world were no easy ones. Miller

it must be able to enter the industrial
life; so today comes the special call for
professional and industrial men as mis-
sionaries. If you can raise more corn on
an acre than any other man, then there
is a place for you on the foreign field. In
India there is a great need and an earn-
est call for agricultural men. In China
the need for engineers and industrial
men is great. There is also the ever
open need for doctors, nurses and teach-
ers. Here is the way to the heart of
these people, and if we neglect to use it
the places will be filled with men who
are not Christians. Only disaster could
result from this. The Volunteer of to-
day has probably the greatest chance in
the world for service.

Schenck spoke briefly of the history
‘of the Volunteer Movement, founded in
1886 by Dr. R. P. Wilder, of Mt. Hermon,

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY | Mass. The motive of the movement is

Full Line of Pennants

four-fold: 1. To awaken and maintain
among Christian students an active in-
terest in missions. 2, To enroll a suffi-

W. S. HENDERSON, Jewerer| cient: number of properly qualified vol-

Davidson, N. C.

SPORTS

A.G.Spalding & Bros.
carry a complete line of

the season’s athletic parap

When using an implement bearing the
Spalding trade mark, you cannot question
the judgment of those who win with
them. The Spalding trade mark is a
guarantee of quality and satisfaction.
Catalogue mailed free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
TSE COMMISSARY

| SHU-FIXERY

Charlotte, N. C.

Local agent
D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.

EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President
The folloming departments ere represented: The
College. The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law. The Department of
Medicine. The Department of Engineering. The
Depertment of Education. The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia stadents in the Academic
Departments. Loan funds available. All other
expenses reduced to a minimum.

For catalogue or information concerning the Uni-
versity of Virginis, address

THE REGISTRAR.

unteers, to meet the successive demands
of the mission boards.
such intending missionaries in preparing
for their life’s work. 4. To lay an equal
responsibility on all students who are to
remain at home, that they may actively
promote the missionary enterprise by
intelligent advocacy, gifts and prayers.
In meeting these purpbses the move-
ment has grown rapidly during the past
thirty years, and today occupies an im-
portant and unique place in college life.

Roberts spoke of the value of a pur-
pose from the points of view of: Its
personal value, its benefit to others, and
its place in bringing in the kingdom of
God. Personally, a purpose makes us
stronger, and enables us to accomplish
more. There is much truth in the old
adage, “The world steps aside when a

jman who knows where he is going comes

by.” There is no other endurance like
that inspired by a dominating purpose.
Further, by definitely fixing our purpose
in life, we test it and see whether or not
it will stand. Its benefit to others, too,
is great, and it is largely thru a fixed
and definite purpose that men advance
the work of the kingdom of God. Then
will you not lend your life to the accom-
plishing of the greatest task in the
word? What’s God's plan for you?
What is your purpose in life?

After these talks the audience enjoy-
ed a violin solo, “Traumere,” given by
C E. Cunningham..

————— DP —_______
SUNDAY SCHOOL

ATTENDANCE
The “Y”" Sunday Schools report the

following attendance:
Cornelius6—s5 pupils, 5 teachers.
Caldwell—28 pupils, 5 teachers.
Oak Grove—26 pupils, 4 teachers.
Shearer—6o pupils, 5 teachers.
Mill—35 pupils, 3 teachers.
Brawleys—No report.

Mr, Snapshot Says: KODAK DEVELOPING

like rapidi

For College Students Ie Our Specialty

of service makes
Brephic art. No extra

distance no disadvantage. Our
for plossy finish.

* _- prints represent the highest in p' charge
| GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., - - Atlanta, Georgia \

We send records on approval.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,

Write for special service plan

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He represents
only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements.

He is also a Public Notary and at your

He wants your business.

3. To help all

“CONFESSION OF CHRIST”
SUBJECT OF
DR. RICHARDS’ SERMON

Sunday Morning Hears Reasons for
Acknowledgement of

Jesus Christ.
“Why should we confess the Lord
Christ?” That all-important

question for every human soul, was Dr.
Richards’ theme at the regular service
ou Sunday morning. The text, taken
from Mark 5:31, gives us the question
asked by Jesus to the lowly woman who
had touched the hem of His garment in
the hope that she might receive a bless-
ing: “Who touched Me?” This shows
us that every person for whom Jesus
has ever done anything is morally
bound to confess Him openly, and surely
we should, for Jesus himself bids us, and
promises us that if we confess Him here
before men He will confess us before
the Heavenly Father.

Taking up some of the reasons Dr.
Richards said, that an open acknowl-
edgment often has an important effect
on us and our associates here in this
life; many have been led to accept Him
because of the influence of some Chris-
tian friend. Then confession definitely
ccmmits one to Him as Lord and Mas-
ter, and this definite committal will al-
ways prove a great strengthening factor
in the Christian life, and also a power
for restraining us from the wrong.

Finally, all who have been benefited
by Him should certainly acknowledge
this benefaction, for it is reasonably due
Him.

And now, since these things are so,
why do men hesitate to acknowledge
Christ? To be sure, it is no easy thing
to come out and take one’s stand on the
side of right, and great moral courage
is required. This is probably the reason
why many fail to take the step. Again,
many men are unwilling to bind. them-
selves to try to do Christ's will con-
tinually, but surcly no one will contend
that one who is willing to accept the

benefits of Christianity should be
ashamed or afraid to openly follow
Christ. On the other hand, some pos-

sibily fear that their faulty living may
bring reproach upon the Church and the
Lord Jesus, but Christ is able to save us
from our sins as well as from Hell, and
we should believe that He can keep us
clean and help us live the true Christian
life.
D———____

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
KEEPING ALIVE

Institute, Early Morning Service,
and Missionary Presentation
Draw Interest.

“Variety is the spice of life,” the
Christian Endeavorers believe. One in-
teresting plan after another sérves to
keep the thermometer of interest at a
high mark. .

On Sunday the 21, a Christian Endeav-
or Institute will be held in Charlotte.
The General Secretaries of the South-
ern and National organizations will be
present for a series of helpful confer-
ences. A delegation of one or more
automobile loads will go from Davidson.
Several cars from Mooresville are com-
ing through Davidson and both delega-
tions will go from Davidson together.

At seven o'clock Thanksgiving morn-
ing the Davidson Endeavorers will hold
a thank service at the church. The un-
usual hour and the spirit of the day are
expected to contribute to a very inter-
esting service. A committee is busy in-
vestigating to see if onyone in Davidson
is in need of help toward a real Thanks-
giving observance, and the Endeavor-
ers will be asked to help meet any needs
that are found, bringing their gifts to
the early morning meeting.

On the last Sunday afternoon of the
month the Endeavorers are to have a
missionary presentation. Mr. W. M.
Cumming, of Wilmington, father of
“Bill” Cumming of the class of 1918,

through his.interest in Christian Endeav- |-

or and in missions, has given the local
society fifty dollars to be given for
equipment in one of the seven countries
in which the Southern Presbyterian
Church does mission work. The claims
of these countries will be presented by
seven Endeavorers, using a touch of
costume. Christian Endeavor president,
Frank Toney will preside as Uncle Sam.
the society will then vote on which coun-
try is to get the fifty dollars. The col-
lege students and the townspeople are
cordially invited to be present. It is
hoped that Mr. Cumming can be present
for the meeting.

LIFE INSURANGE--

Spe A PROFESSION
we ee” The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School
wHPASS) for Agents end raultiple line of insurance provides the

equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship

Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”

Write to the

SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

Seeeesesce:

PIEDMONT THEATRE

High Class Moving Pictures
Charlotte, N. C.

etocesesoooooossocooss
Pevecscosoacooocooooocccooososceso

A Perfect Home Piano

Our ‘‘Factory-to-Home

Plan” offers very attract-

ive terms. Catalog on
request

Repairing Moviag

CHAS. M. STIEFF. Inc.

ESTABLISHED 18e

M. D. MANNING, Manager
210 S. Tryon Suet . - . .

Tuning

NONE TOO SMALL NONE 100 LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
of Charlotte, N. C.

. A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President 1. W. STEWART,
Cc. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. 8. McPHEETERS: Arsiniact te ier

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER A $1,000,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA

Good Food Served Quickly
at Very Moderate Prices

20 West Trade St.

R. A. DUNN. President

Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”

Our.Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness,
manent Disability, Old Age, Death.

Any disability one day or more—-no limit. Full death b
addition---double for accidental death. Rates reatonebie’ in

G. W. PATTERSON, Gen'l Agt.

Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company

1016 -18 Realty Bldg, Charlette, N.C.
Openinge for Live men as agents

Dateeancartgnnnstanctencnezeneaeaearzeaeseneteanteaeeeaeuate tate tatubatetezs ate tatatetetetetetanetetetanetetets
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.

Selle all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates.
‘Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses
make the protection complete.
Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto.

Every young man should have a life insurance .
Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 Pet,

How much have you gol?
r J. ep
WRT Me

Total and Per.

lotte, N. C.

J.P. QUARLES, Manager

