ry

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
“The Livest Wire on‘the Hill*

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

icles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
Ar ettenday: Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Se) Editor-in-Chief
-£ CSE ROS nn deeeeeeneeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Managing Editor

AP ORMOND. santa Managing Editor
. P, PRICE____..-----.-—---.------------------~---------------Assignment Editor
kik DOUBLES .--Athletic Editor

.

oa------~--.--Alumni Editor
-----Exchange Editor
Forum Editor

Goce eeeesowen ee itor
oan ennnnnnnennnn nana nmn mann nnnn a lnwnnnnnnnnnnan-==-=--=-S0cial Editor

nenewnnewnwennenncennnnnaeneneerecceccececcenccee. Literary Editor
Official Photographer

CLUB
McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D H.
ORMAND, A. C.

REPORTERS’
BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A.
BITZER, R.
COOPER, W. J.
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

LONG, C. G.
MAHOOD, D, L.
MITCHELL, A.M, SUMMERS, A. C.

PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

C. J. MATTHEWS............---------- ------------ 20-25 see Business Manager
E. A. NASH eeeneennne. ---e0-------------------------- Assistant Managers
j. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: ; .
C. H. LONG......--. ~~~. nnn nnn nnn anno enn n eee Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL-..-...--..--..-~..--.-----.------~--------~---------Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, we did it! And too much cannot be said in praise of the en-
tire Wildcat team, for they fought with the characteristic fierceness
and determination of the animal from which they derive their naime.

D—_——___—_

We do not mind attending assembly lectures, but we do object to a
full day’s work being camouflaged 80 as to be called a holiday.

The game Saturday was a thriller in many ways, but one of the
outstanding features of the hard-fought battle was the clean, sports-
manship of both teams. Davidson lived up to her reputation of years in
this respect, and Carolina, although on the defensive the entire game,
never resorted to dirty tactics, showing themselves worthy of the ad-

iration of all.
m —_—____

In justice to the students who wore the Navy blue during the World
War, we would respectfully ask that the Chairman of the Armistice Day
exercises never again fail to give these men their proper recognition.
This organization supported the Flag in its sphere of service just as
much as the Army or the Y. M.C. A.

—____ pe
A combination of half-holidays for Davidson College Day and Arm-
istice Day respectively ought to give a whole holiday by our way of cal-
culation, but it seems that there was a mysterious subtraction which re-
sulted in a zero so far as aholiday was concerned.
—————_p—_____
HOW MUCH IS YOUR SUPPORT WORTH?
HE student body is to be commended on its recent action in which
I it has assumed the responsibility of giving to each football letter
man this fall a sweater and a gold football as a token of the es-
teem and admiration with which they are regarded. The students as a
whole have pledged themselves to raise five hundred dollars for this
purpose, but to succeed in doing sodepends on YOU as an individual
member of this body. —, .

You believe in your team; you will give them all kind of moral
backing; some of you will. even risk losing your board money by bet-
ting on their fighting and winning qualities ; but now the time has come
when the call is issued for each man to dig into his trousers and ex-
tract therefrom one dollar as his part in making this plan possible. Are
you going to give them this meager financial backing? Our belief is
that you will. This we write only to remind you that now is your time
to help in our glorious football season, and to urge your heart J CO-Op-
eration and support so that those men who sacrifice much can be ever-
lastingly assured that our college is proud of them and their record.

——__)D_-___
WE THANK YOU, WINSTON.

A short time ago an editorial appeared in our columns urging the
change of the annual Carolina game from Winston-Salem to Charlotte.
We were sincere in our belief at that time, but since our last. invasion
into the Twin City we must honestly confess that we are body and soul
for keeping this football classic in the same city where it was staged
Saturday. No town could have been more loyal to the Red and Black
than the people of Winston, as evidenced by the great number of en-
thusiastic Davidson supporters and their treatment of our students. To
state it briefly, Winston-Salem is a Davidson town.

We frankly admit that the handling of the crowd was inefficient, but
this is not to be charged against the Twin City, for the entire manage-
ment of the game was in the hands of the University authorities, and
they alone can be the object of the compliments or criticisms as the case
may be. That from henceforth on the game will be directed in a
straight, direct business-like way is assured from the fact that last
week the Winston-Salem Athletic Association was organized to bring
about this result. We are glad to hear this, and now it is up to us to
show them our appreciation by keeping this game in their city.

Aside from all this principal argument for not transfering this
me is the fact that it has proven to be a powerful drawing card for
ture Davidson students. From many sources in the last few days in-

formation has come to our hands directly that the showing made by the
Wildcat eleven has already influenced many boys who were on the fence
as to which college to enter to cast their lot with this institution. It is
a matter of common sense that it is not a wise policy to concentrate all
éur games in one locality, but to scatter them in several. cities in order

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1929.

MORE ON THE POINT SYSTEM.

In last week's issue in these columns
“E. Pluribus Unum” advocated a change
in the point system. This point system
was adopted many years ago with the
constitution of the student government.
Last year the students revised the con-
stitution, but no change was made in
the point system. These points were
rated for the student officers as they
were in 1915, and since then many new
offces have been created, and old ones
enlarged. If the constitution seemed in-
adequate, it would follow that the point
system is inadequate also.

Last year’s Handbook contained the
following:

“To prevent a small group of men
from holding all of the student offices
in Davidson, a point system has been
adopted. Under this one man can hold
only ten points at one time. The vari-
ous offices are graded as follows:

Student Body—President, 5; Vice-
President, 1; Secretary and Treasurer,
1; Student Council, 1.

Athletic Association — President, 2;
Vice-President, 1; Treasurer, 4.

Athletics—Captain, 1; Manager (base-
ball and football), 5; Assistant Manager,
2; Managers, Track, 3; Tennis, 2; Bas-
ketball, 4.

Y. M. C. A—President, 5; Cabinet, 1.

Davidsonian—Editor, 5; Business Man-
ager, 4; Managing Editor, 5; Assignment
Editor, 3; Circulation Manager, 3; Staff,
2.

Annual—Editor, 5; Manager, 5; Assist-
ant Manager, 2; Staff, 2.

Magazine—Editor, 4;
Staff, 2.

Literary Society—President, 1; Secre-
tary, 1; Treasurer, 2; Reviewer, 1; Mar-
shall, 1; Chief Marshall, 2. ‘

Class—President, 1; Historian, 1.

Debating Council—Chairman, 2; Mem-
ber, 1.” ;

Since the time of adoption of these
points many new organizations have ap-
peared on the campus. And in order to
carry on the purpose of the point sys-
tem—“to prevent a small group of men
from holding all the student officers”—
points should be credited to these new
offices. The question is, What offices
are important enough to warrant in-
cluding them in the point system and
what credit to give them?

Manager, 3;

San-Tar.

D——___.
DAMAGE COMMITTEE.

Before the war there was a committee
on the Hill known as the Damage Com-
mittee. The purpose of this committee
was to look out for damages done by the
students, and keep an accurate list of all
damages done. This list was turned
over to the treasurer and the amounts
were deducted from the individual's
damage account.

Since the days of the S. A. T. C. this
custom of having a damage committee
has been abandoned. At present these
are a few boys who totally disregard the
will of the college, and promiscuously
break up the college property. And
when it come to paying for the damages,
the combined loss is pooled and an equal
amount subtracted from cach student's
account. Would it not be better to re-
instate the committee and thereby put
a stop to some of this careless conduct
on the part of some of the boys. This

committee could look out for the dam-|.

age just as the supervision committee
looks out for the fresh. X. T. M.

D—___
PUNCTUALITY.

Did it ever occur to you that there ard
various things to be learned in college
except the texts assigned in class rooms?
‘One of these is punctuality. Is there any
tangible reason why a man cannot ad-
just his physical being to the duties of
the hour in order that he may arrive at
his destination on time instead of late?

pon CO
—  ——

that a greater number of High
School students may come direct
into contact with the famous David-
son spirit. Even in the future should
this game in question be somewhat
mismanaged, and this most positive-
ly will not be, we believe that the
last reason cited is sufficient to per-
mit Winston-Salem’s retaining this
contest. By doing this the Twin
City will become a more ardent.sup-
orter of Davidson as the’ years go
y, and her influence will grow in
power in that section of the State.

EXCHPNGE

WS

‘hw

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
oom.

QUEENS BLUES.

A brand new newspaper has made its
appearance among dur list of exchanges
and receives a most hearty welcome.
QUEENS BLUES is the name by which
our new exchange is known and is pub-
lished by the students of none other than
“our own” Queens College, in the neigh-
boring town of Charlotte. It is a four-
page four-column publication and is put
out semi-monthly.

SOCIETY DAY AT WAKE FOREST.

Wake Forest's seventh annual So-
ciety Day, celebrated on November 1,
featured beautiful girls, a large number
of visitors, and an enjoyable program.
The program in addition to the Junior-
Sophomore debate on the subject: Re-
solved, that Ireland should be granted
her independence, and four excellent
orations, included several social func-
tions. In connection with the Society
Day the Old Gold and Black of Wake
Forest says: “The sight of so many
couples at various places about the cam-
pus and grounds was very impressive.”

Dp...

PUBLIC SPEAKING CLASSES OR-
GANIZED AT BIRMINGHAM.
SOUTHERN COLLEGE.

Public speaking is now a recognized
department at Birmingham - Southern
College, a one-hour course raising the
number of hours required for a degree
te 64. To keep up to standard the col-
lege found it necessary to increase the

requirements.
es |
Thomas H. Spence, editor of The Oak

Leaf, and ex-chief peanut of The Da-
vidsonian Peanut Parcher, gives us the
following editorial in his usual poetic
style: ‘
“Many a man could do many a thing,
Could reach many a place on high,

‘And make him a name

Of honor and fame
Tf he had only the grit to try.”

D—_—___..

WO.-CO-ALA NEWS.

The Seniors of the Woman’s College
of Alabama are to give a vaudeville and
minstrel in the near future. The pros-
pect is promising, including the newest
fashions, songs, and surprise features
well worth the seeing.

a

Few of us have attained the distinc-
tion of facing audiences, but can you not
place yourself upon the platform and
speak your first ten minutes to your au-
dience without being interrupted some
six or seven times by delinquents ar-
riving late? °

We should certainly try to eliminate
these late arrivals, which must be very
annoying. It must make a very poor
impression on the speaker of our re-
spect for his efforts. We owe it to our
visitors, so let’s try to cultivate punc-
tuality. E. Pluribus Unum.

and mellow.

good dealer,

PIPE’S the thing with men.
WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved,
The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet

POMONA COLLEGE TO HAVE NEW
TRAINING QUARTERS,

A campaign waged by Alumni and
students is under way to raise $55,000 .
for the erection of new training quart-
ers for Pomona College, of Claremont,
California. The plans for the new build-
ing are already drawn and constitute
the first wing of a modern gymnasium
which is to be built later. When com-
plete the new gymnasium will be an
architectural feature which will ad-
equately fit in with the great campus
plans of the administration.

I watched her dress
And laughed at it,
For brevity’s
The soul of wit.
I used to think I knew I knew,

But now, I must confess
The more I know I know I know

I know I know the less.

—A Philosophy Student.
D—_—___

—Ex.

A COLLEGE BARBER'S YELL.
Cut his lip
Gash his jaw
Leave his face
Raw! Raw! Raw!
—Orange and Blue.
D—___

The total registration of Wake Forest
to date is 551, which is the largest en-
tollment ever at the College. Since this
number of students is about two hundred
more than the dormitory space is sup-
posed to accommodate it would seem
that the only thing to do would be to
build more dormitories.

LEX KLUTTZ TO TAKE UP
WORK IN SYRIA.

Former Baseball Star at Davidson
to be Athletic Instructor There.

Lex Kluttz, '15, of Chester, S. C, for-
mer service man, who is to be an in-
structor and athletic coach in the Syrian
Protestant College, Beirut, Syria, stop-
ped over on his way to his new work at
Coblenz, Germany, according to an item
in The Amarco News of September 20,
published at Coblenz daily and Sunday
in the interest of the American forces in
Germany. ’ .

Mr. Kluttz was a former religious
leader at Coblenz and the paper carries
an item on a talk he made, in addition
to the following clipping:

“Lex Kluttz, ex-sergeant, and one of
the fastest cinder track men of the 8th
infantry, who received his discharge in
the United States, after going to that
country with the A. F. G—Olympic
Games Team, has arrived in Coblenz for
three days’ visit before going to Beirut,
Syria, where he wilt accept a Position as
instructor and athletic coach in the
Syrian Protestant College.

“Last summer Kluttz was picked as
one of the few men of the American
forces who was fleet enough to make the
Olympic games. After qualifying for
the army tryouts in the United States, .
he was eliminated in the St. Louis meet
in both the 440 and 100 yards events.
After obtaining his discharge from the
army, he visited his home in Chester, S.
C, and has now come to Germany via
Italy, on his way to the near east.

“Kluttz came over the first time in
1917 and re-enlisted after the armistice.
He was sent to the 8th infantry and for
more than a year was in the office of
Senior Chaplain E. P. Easterbrook here.”

Under the spell of

Tt will not crack or burn: through. The
WDC Triangle on the bow! is your guarantee, Ask any

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF ‘FINE PIPES
