4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Clase.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

GB. H. ASKDW........csscccccvenceens veeccecces Mitor-insChief
J. B. CASSBLL.......... soeeseace

J. R. BOULWARE, Jr... .sseeeceee

3G. MeCABLELE. sso nen seeesssseesessueessseeesssAlumnl Balter
D. M. CHALMERS..... .-Exchange Editor
EL A. HILL..........06555 ..Forum Editor
T. H. BPENCE,......cccccccc ccc escscccsesnses esse easeeseeeanar sere essences Campus Editor
Li. G. CALHOUN....... cece cscccscecccccccccseeeseeserseessseessees oooe¥. M. C, A Editor
A. Li. WILSON... cece ccc c cee scrrenecenrenessceeessroseseeasssesesones ....Social Editor
J. M. GASTON. SIr.......sseceees soceee err. errr rrr rrr sac cecceces Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE........ deme ev ccceceeceesceces Oe eee eeecceeceesece Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D, L. MAHOOD

M. MITCHELL
B. BRBITENHIRT
R. DOUBLES

W. MOORE

M. RICHARDS

Cc. WOOL

WwW. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

A.
B.
M.
w.
J.
J.

Additional Reporters for this issue are: Ormand, A. P.; Wildeman, C. F.; Gamble, WL A:
McQuire, E. H.; Denny, S. H.; King, A. D.; Long, C. G.; Calhoun, M. 1%; Thames, F. C.; Hooth,
P :

é J. MATTHDWS........++-++ teeonee secececees Deo eaeceecccvcncecccces Business Manager
T. H. WILSON........... errr er ee Tere Tere re rere eer ere rere reser ears Assistant Manager

: POUTUVESTTCSTESESTSSTELST ELST SSeS TSS S eT eee Circulation Manager
% 1 MONCH OLS ULI Aalatane Managers

EDITORIAL

If the man who wrote “Carolina Sunshine” had been in Davidson
for the past two weeks we would soon have a new edition of “Throw
Out the Life-line,” “I'm Always Chasing Rainbows,” or perhaps “Sink
or Swim.”

The only mistake the Million Dollar Campaigners made was in not
leaving the whole thing to the Davidson student body. :

The “Y” has some new song books which are for the purpose of
singing from and not for election ballots or tapping someone off on the
bean.

The fellow who said, “There’s Nothing like a good cold shower these
mornings,” certainly knew what he was talking about.

Fill your head with trifles and you will not have room for the big

things.
F dom has a chance to see. There can be no complaint this. year of
having no games on the home court, for some of the liveliest
scraps of the season will be staged right here on our local floor.
man in college of course will be there and every one will be loyally
rooting for his team, no matter what the fortunes of the game might
be. These things go without saying, but there are certain rules of
courtesy and etiquette which in our enthusiasm should not be over-
looked. . .

In the game with North Carolina, of which we have every reason
to feel truly proud, there were some remarks passed and some yelling
done that could hardly reflect credit on our student body. As an in-
stance of this, the jeering when the opponents were attempting to shoot
a foul or had missed a foul was not the courtesy due to a visiting team.
Also such remarks as “kill him,” “hit him,” etc., are liable to create the
impression that the object which the players have in view is seeing how
many can be knocked out. ;

If we can’t best the best team they have without disposing of
their men, then they are welcome to the game. The players realize
this, and such jeers and taunts can not be appreciated by -them. | If a
team would come here and find a quiet, peaceful audience, which never
opened their mouths, they would be disappointed. The more the yell-
ing and the louder the yelling the better it is for you and the team, but
in giving vent to your enthusiasm and desire to win, pick the proper
time and be careful not to urge your team to do things that they them-
selves do not approve.

THE STRAIGHT AND NARROW PATH.

S regular as the years roll around there are certain questions that
have to be brought to the attention of the student body to secure
their co-operation, Conspictous among these is the cutting of

paths across the campus. The present Senior class can easily recollect
how in every year of their stay here steps have had to be taken to save
the looks of the campus, and perhaps every class as far back as 1837
has had to be reminded annually of the same thing.

In many respects this year has been an exception, but as regards
this item it has followed the usual course. Between Rumple and_ the
Phi hall, between Chambers and chapel, there is as usual a regular
highway. As an addition this year, between Elm Row and Abbott’s,
there has developed a veritable wagon road. The beauty of the cam-
pus is shamefully marred by these short cuts, and without necessitat-

BASKETBALL ETIQUETTE.

OUR basketball games in one week is a treat that Davidson sel-

ing the erection of fences, it could and should be voluntarily stopped by:

the students.

A little thing it is to cross the campus once, but when your whole
dormitory or your whole boarding house follows in your footsteps, it
amounts to a great deal. By actual calculation you will find that the
saving of time and steps is so small as to be negligible. Why not then
stick to the regular walk and for once suffer your footsteps to deviate
from the straight and narrow path! ;

A letter has just been received from one of the best friends the
college ever had which closes with a remark that should make an ap-
peal to every trespasses: “It makes those who love the campus heart-

every’

° . . . ° . . . ° . tlv
sick to see how it is being treated this year.” Certainly we can stop it Toronto air race that was recentl)
before further damage ts done and thus do our part for the mainten- held. A Columbia machine will

H ‘iful a campus as there is in the country. leave Roosevelt field at Mineola,
= “ as Deautifal & camp d Long Island, and fiy to the Harvard

stadium and return, while a Harvard
machine is covering the distance in
the opposite direction, from Cam-
bridge to Mineola and return. Yale’s
flier will either go from New York
to Mineola and return with a handi-
cap to make up for the difference in
distance, or will follow a three-

Open Forum G

Regarding Sunday Breakfast.

ee
oer

There is no doubt but that every
student on the campus has the ut-

d d for th cornered course wom New Haven to
most respect and regard for the . . bridge to Mineola.—Spectator.
ladies whe board the boys. Read the College Exchanges in the Library Cambridg: P

There Was an article in last week’s From N. CC. W.
Forum advocating getting to break-| Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
fast on time Sunday mornings. But m. Davidsonians.
think a moment. Why not do away “And we'll fight, fight, for old D. .
with Sunday breakfast altogether? Mississippi. Cc." Indeed we will. We know the

XXX appeals to the boys to make
it snappy so the ladies can get din-
ner ready by 12 o'clock. He says
that “this is the most troublesome
meal of the whole week—yet it is
attended by not over 20 per cent of
the student body! What does any-
body go tu breakfast on Sunday
morning for? Is it hunger—or just
conscientious scruples that demand
him to take everything he can get?

Dinner on Sunday is one hour and
40 minutes earlier than usual. There
is no chapel. Who wants to eat
breakfast at 8:30 or 9:00, and an-
other meal in three hours—or one
should say—who needs it?

This plan would be of immense re-
lief tu the boarding house matrons.
Under it they could take their much
deserved rest. They would have
ample time to prepare dinner by
12, and would not have the waste
left. over from breakfast, or the
worry of not having enough. The
waiters would have one morning off,
when they too could sleep until
time for Bible classes.

There is no doubt but that the
ladies would be glad to increase the
dinner by that amount of cost and
trouble which the breakfast would
have caused, thereby benefiting all
instead of planning for the “con-
scientious few.”

Is not this plan more economical,
will it not do the greatest good to
the largest number? Think seri-.
ously—then act. Give the boarding
house ladies their due, let the wait-

Davidsonians will, and we will, too.
The N. C. C. delegates surely will
boost Davidson at every possible
chance. They had a fine group of
delegates to Des Moines, and we are
sure that they are really representa-
tive of their college. From now on
let’s be “sure-nuff” pals.—Carolin-
ian.

Cigarettes Placed Under
Ban By The Faculty.

The committee appointed to make
suggestions relative to the matter
of cigarette smoking, begs leave to
report the following recommenda-
tions:

1. That the. Faculty of Mississippi
College puts itself on record as defi-
nitely opposed to the practice of
cigarette smoking.

2. That, beginning with the
present date, the faculty prohib-
it the smoking of cigarettes in the
lecture halls and on the college cam-
pus as well as on the streets of the
town and in all public places in the
town.

_ 3. That the Faculty refuse to
furnish any kind of financial assist-
‘ance or any form of unqualified
‘Tecommendation to any student who |
is a habitual user of tobacco in any .
form. ' Out of 63 colleges on one list, 22

4. That the Faculty inflict the have endowment campaigns on, and.
following penalties to cover viola- several others are waiting a later
itions of the above named regula- day. The total asked by the twenty-
‘tions: (a) For the first offense, 20 t° is $100,000,000.
demerits. which penalty shall be re-
ported immediately to the parent or
guardian of students involved; (b) —
For the second offense, probation Oglethorpe University has just

" with restrictions for 20 days.—Miss. completed the raising of $1,000,000
i Collegian. ‘endowment fund. The campaign be-
.gan eight years ago with subscrip-
Columbia. tions of $100 per year and has grown
Columbia, Harvard and Yale, will until the goal was recently passed
ers rest, and do the best thing for take part in a three-cornered air-| with several thousand dollars over.
the student body—do away with. plane race next spring. The contest !—The Petrel.
Sunday breakfasts. Typo. j will he modeled on the: New York-
—— Kentucky.
——————__.

. .
The Choice of a President. success shows a superb administra-
tive ability and an undaunted cour-

President Wilson has taught | age in the carrying ou
America one lesson—the choice of a’ popular task. ; . ber of subscriptions to the 1920 vol-
resident 1s of paramount tmpor- — Although his previous record is.ume. The first prize is $15, the
tance, and a matter of life-and-death - not generally known, Mr. Palmer second $10. and other rewards will

Utah.

At a large mass meeting a short
time ago the male students of the
University of Utah went on record
as being opposed to the use -of
tobacco on the campus. The meet-
ing was called as a result of a peti-
tion from some men who felt that to
take away the right of smoking on
the campus was wrong. The matter
was finally put to a vote and the
majority was decided against the
use of nicotine on the campus.

Georgia.

| The staff of the “Kentuckian is
. offering substantial prizes to the
t of this un- student who secure the largest num-

to every family. Previous to the) has demonstrated marked talent as;be announced later —Kentucky
administration of Mr. Wilson, the| Attorney General. With the aid of | Kernel , ,
average citizen considered it not | the Department of Justice he has! ,

only a profitable but a safe and wise] instituted a vigorous campaign South Carolina.

policy to let politicians take care of | against the underlying cause of our —_—

politics while he devoted his ener-! industrial troubles—Aliens—which | Dr. W. J. McGlothlin, president

gies to private affairs. The general has so far

been singularly success-'of Fur
é 8 - man removed ‘ -
interest shown all over the country | ful, 6 4 carth from: the vine Shovel

i 3 the « In all of his other activities j i

mm the approaching presidential elec-’ Mr. Palmer has shown himself t0| na domitory. The hailing: sts
tion demonstrates clearly that be an American of superior intelli- be the most commodious and
America intends to obliterate this ; pence, of great integrity, and of comfortable ever erected on the uni-
erroneous view. ‘faithfulness to his conviction. versity campus.—Furman Hornet

Men of public spirit and true per- ff the people of America adopt a! ,
ception are pressing to the front non-partisan attitude, then surely!
Lwith determination to let the people! both of these men will be dom)
choose instead of the national con-i nating figures in November, w
ventions, that have previously been’ the choice is actually made
ruled by professional office-seekers, W. W.C
consequently a great number of | _
, theories, concerning the qualifica- |
tions necessary for 2 successful
| President have been advanced. '

At present the trend seems to be
‘toward a business man for Presi-
dent. Ina period of such unsettled
circumstances, the popularity of
this movement is casily understood.
The people want a man of action—A
man capabable of comprehending in-
dustrial disputes and world politics.
Yet the people want a man who has
great administrative capacity and
the courage to uphold, unflinching-
ly,what he thinks is just and for the
best interests of the nation.

Two men in particular are unique-
ly qualified. according to the
above standard, for the critical posi-,
.tion of President—Herbert Hoover
and Mitchell Palmer.

The record of Mr. Hoover, as
Food administrator, is without
parallel in our history. No other
man has ever had such a tremendous
task thrust upon him. He had to so!
conserve and administer our food
supply as to feed practically all of
Europe. The story of his splendid|

The students of Lafayette Col-
‘lege have raised a sum of $5,000 to-
hen) wards a new gymnasium. This rep-
resents a per capita subscription of
| $33.—The Lafayette.

DC Pipes are certainly a man’s smoke. They bring
the smokejoy which every man seeks. It’s in the

W

mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman-

ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good
dealer’s, Smoke a cool one every time. °

We. DEMUTH & CO.. New vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKER S“OF FINE PIPES

