7 ;
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ':
“The Livest Wire on the H
Published Weeily by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before

12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
a OOOOOOOOOO—TTT ESSE leE lEellQSQNSSSSS
-E CASSELL. ....02 2 n onan nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn en nnn een nen eee Editor-in-Chief
RICHARDS..__.._-...-----------+------~--~-+=- anne ene e Managing Editor

A. ¥ ORMOND. ewewrennncnnceecencseennneucen Assistant Managing Editor
i,° weeenceeeennesseene. ssignment Editor
R. DOUBLES..-......----------------.----------------.--------Athletic Editor
C.J. nema. ------Alumni Editor
J. KIL! wavnenennnnnnnnnenenecennnnnn-oe---------- Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE, JR... w----2---Forum Editor
t. -..------Campus Editor
W. ROBERTS _____.-.---.--.-------2--neeneececeeee-e------¥ M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL. nn nn nee n-ne nn nnn een ne Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, ---~---Literary Editor
R. R. MocILW. Bn nnn nn nee nn anew on nn nena nn enn n nn ee nnn e =! Reid Photogeapte: | ———————————————

CLUB
McGUIRE, E. H.
McKEITHEN, J. H.

REPORTERS’

GAMBLE, W. A.
GILMER, J. M.

MITCHELL, A. M. TULLER, C

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G, OLTMAN......-.-.............-.-.--.--------------------Business Manager

E. A. NASH

MMING, W. P.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

ween necnnannnnncccnnenneccnecnencans----2----Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG. pence wccccn conn ewecccecensnssennenencnnnone Circulation Manager
j. C. WOOL..__....-..--------------------------2- === o ee oo Assistant Manager

aironize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL ..

Hurrah! Just 20 days until “we pack our grips and take a trip”
back to the “best old college in the East or West.”

Have you been talking Davidson this summer? While we do not
need any more students, since the maximum has been reached, let every-
body know just what kind of a school we have up there.

What do you think of five hundred for our student body? We must
now concentrate as never before on the “Better Davidson.”

Don’t make the mistake of entering college a week or so late this

fall. Be prompt, for a good start is half the cause of a successful year.
Congratulations to the new men who have chosen Davidson for

their college! You will never regret it, and you will be gladly received
into the Wildcat family.

You will be coming to a democratic campus, new men, so don't be
afraid to speak to the other fellows. The days will seem brighter and
happier if you do this.

Let's not forget that we owe the incoming class something. Be
their friend at all times, ready to help, advise and encourage at every
opportunity.

A NEW ERA IN ATHLETICS.

This Fall will mark the beginning of a new era in Red and Black
athletics. For the first time football practice will get under way before
college opens, and also a training table is being provided for every
branch of sports. We gladly take this opportunity to urge that all the
old football men as well as any new men of any experience at all be

‘ompt in answering Coach Grey’s call to report on September Ist.
Prospects were never brighter and with such a start in getting into
trim we should have no worry for the coming season. Then the train-
ing table is going to fill a need that has long been felt at our college,
for it is rather a difficult task for men to keep training, eating here and
there. Along this line we would most earnestly plead that every man
regard his pledge as a thing of highest honor, and- something that must
be kept at all hazards. There was something lacking in last year’s team
—what it was there is no use to mention—but this fall we cannot allow
a recurrence. Let us repeat, men, give due heed to Coach Grey’s call,
and report September Ist with the unconquerable purpose to give your-
self unselfishly to old Davidson and to do your best to put her name
high in the annals of football for the coming season. J.E.C.

TO OBEY AND SERVE.

Not many weeks will elapse before the opening of college will be
upon us, and we will find ourselves facing another year of either work
or play just as we choose to make it. It is to be hoped that the man
who takes the latter course will be far in the minority, and that he will
soon find that Davidson has no use for the sluggard.

In this connection the question can be asked what does it mean
to you to be a college man, and especially a student at Davidson Col-
lege? What: is it meaning ‘in your present life as well as how it is
going to affect your future? Do you think of college as a place only

or pleasure or a place for real work? Does it mean that college is a
place to get everything and to give nothing? Or does it mean that it is
the fitting school for a life of unselfish service ?

The hard-working, sensible student Teadily knows that college is
the training camp wherein he is fitting himself for a future life of serv-
ice to his féllowmen, yet many are the boys who deviate from this
correct path by thinking that school is a playground wherein he is the
one to served. The error of his choosing is plain and disastrous if
not remedied. It is this class 05 old as well as new men who should call
a halt and incorporate in themselves the truer and higher purpose.

Put away the idea that college is the place of no restrictions where
you are free to.do what you please just as a young colt in a boundless
pasture. Remember that your institution is connected to you in the
sition of in loco parentis, and that you owe true obedience to all her
rules and traditions. Without this obedience your career is doomed to
failure. Then to the student who thinks continually of himself and
nothing else, why not experience a change of heart? Determine that

THE DAVIDSONIAN, AUGUST 18, 1928.

uw put away the selfish way of living, and that you
will serve your fellow students and institution in every way possible,
though at times it may seem ever so humble. Unless such a change is
made you will awake to find that you have cheated yourself of many
advantages of college life which will be gone forever.

This year we are going to reach the high water mark in numbers,
and if five hundred students will enter, our college this fall imbued with
pee pares of obeying her regulations and traditions and placing her

and betterment first at all times, then indeed we have made a won-
ferful start on a real successful year of work. J. E.C.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.

this year will see
2 fello

September 25th—N. C. State, at...-.--.------.----..---- Raleigh, N. C.
October 2nd—Washington & Lee, at.......---------- Lexington, Va.--
October 9th—Georgia Tech, at...-----.--..--.--------..- Atlanta, Ga.
October 16th—Wake Forest, at-...--.--..---.--.....- Charlotte, N. C.
October 23rd—Richmond College, at.-.--.--.--.------- Richmond, Va.
October 30th—The Citadel, at-_-..---- --Charlotte, N. G
November 6th—University ‘of S. C., at--....--.----- ee Davidson, N. C.
November 13th—University of N. Cc, at weeeeeenne Winston-Salem, N. C.
November 19th—Presbyterian College of S. C., at-..------ Clinton, S. C.
November 25th—Furman University, at---...--...-~-- Greenville, S. C.

of work and the scientific spirit in
those studying in this department.

BIBLE AND PHILOSOPHY.

The Freshman Clas Class in Bible will
be divided into four sections and
taught 2 Drs. Richards and Sen-
telle. ophomore Bible will be
taught in two sections by Dr. Sen-
telle.

Dr. Frazer Hood will have charge
of all work in Psycholo The
usual course will be given in ‘Senior
Philosophy. The work for the first
term will be in Ethics, for the second
term in the History of Philosophy,
Hyde’s Fve Great Philosophies of
Life, Mecklin’s Social Ethics and
Cushman’s two volume History of
Philosophy will be used as texts.
Assignments in reading will be made
from Rand’s Classical Philosophers
and Moralists.

CHEMISTRY.

A few interesting changes will
be made in the Chemistry Depart-
ment this session. First, this is the
last session that a second course in
General Chemistry will be offered.
Henceforth B.S. "Freshmen will be
oflered a more thorough course in
Genera] Chemistty ; than has for)
some years been offered to Fresh-
men. This course will include two
periods of laboratory work, which
will make it the e uivalent of eight
Semester hours. This will satisf
the requirments of first-class medi-
cal colleges. In order to accomodate
the needs of this class, we expect to
construct a new balance room,
which will bé equipped with new
balances.

There will be two sections of this
class. One section will be composed
of students who have studied High
School Chemistry and of Soph-
omores and Juniors who take up
Chemistry for the first time at
Davidson.

It will be possible to study man
phases of General Chemistry in this
section, especially in the laboratory,
that will not be undertaken in the
other section, which will make those
who have studied Chemistry in the
High School feel that they are not
repe ating work already done.

his course is designed to give
students who have studied some
Chemistry a true appreciation of
the contents of this wonderful
science, especial! as it touches the
many practical things that are sug-
gested by the marvelous industrial
development of this day.

Second, the next course in Chem-
istry, which will be open to Soph
omores in the B.S, who have take’
Chemist: 1, and to students of
higher classes who have had one
year of General Chemistry, will be
devoted to both Qualitative and
Quantitative Analysis. This course
will not be called for this session, as
students of last year who took
Chemistry 1 will be given a chance
to study the old Chemistry 2, which
is advanced General Chemistry and
those who have taken the old Chem-
istry 2 will be ready to take Qualita-
tive Analysis. On consultation those
students who are preparing for
medicine in two years will be per-
mitted to pass from Chemistry 1 of
last year into Chemistry 3, which is
Qualitative Analysis and Organio

emistry.

Third, after this year the third
course in Chemistry will be Organic
Chemistry. A whole year will be
given to this, which will greatly in-

APPLIED MATHEMATICS.

The Department of Applied Math-
ematics offers three elective courses
which are open to students of the
Junior and Senior classes, and aims
to supply courses of a practical na-
ture, which will help the student to
apply the principles he has already
learned.

The course in Applied Math-
ematics I is designed to teach the
student the principles of Plane
Surveying and of Highway Location
and construction. The class is
divided into sections and each man
actually handles all the instruments
commonly used in surveying.

Three hours of class work and six
hours of field work sare required
throughout the session.

In Applied Mathematics II course
the student is taught to draw by
mechanical means, The elements of
Mechanical Drawing and of Descrip-
tive Geometry are studied, and each
man is required to make working
drawings of cOncrete objects at
intervals throughout the year.

The course aims to familiarize the
student with the different ways of
representing objects on paper, and
requires ten hours of work a week.

To those students who desire to
become familiar with the larger
stars and constellations a course in
Astronomy is offered. The class is
shown how to find the true North
and to determine Latitude and Time.

Three hours a week and occasion-
al night classes are required.

All classes will be taught by Prof.
Wood.

Outline of Courses

BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT .

The Biology courses are designed
to give a general knowledge of the
fundamental principles of biological
science, such as is needed in a gen-
eral education and by those expect-
ing to study medicine. Two new
courses have been added to the cur-
riculum. Biology III is an advanced
course in plant morphology and

«ysiclogy open to all students who
Kee completed Biology I. There
will be two lectures and six hours of
laboratory work each week. Biology
Vi is an advanced course in Histo

and Comparative Anatomy. Its
object is to acquaint the student
with the microscopic structure of
cells, tissues, and organs and to give
him training in histological tech-
nique. The relation of Histology to
Pathology and Anatomy is kept in
view. e pert of the course de-
voted to Comparative Anatomy is a
study of the higher vertebrates and
a complete dissection is made of
some mamalian types. There will
be three recitations and six hours of
laboratory work per week. New
tables are in the process of construc-
tion to accomodate thirty-six stu-
dents at one time. Each student will
be provided with ample materials
for dissection. Dissection instru-
ments and drawing paper are fur-
nished by the department at cost.
Four new microscopes have been
provided and demohstration slides
will be in daily use. [It is attempted
to make the student in his lab-
rforatory work see arid draw things
for himself, final object being not so
much to teach the facts of the
science as to inculcate: ndependence

crease the value of the course, par-
ticularly to medical students.

Fourth, for students who are mak-
ing Chemistry. a specialty, an ad-
vanced course in General Chemistry
and Physical Chemistry is provided
and also an advanced course in
Quantitative Analysis, which will in-
volve the determinations that are of
special value in industrial work.

This course as outlined offers
larger opportunities for the study of
Chemistry at Davidson and enables
pre-medical students to secure ad-
equate training in Chemistry.

Now that B.A. Freshmen can not
study Chemistry, it is most import-
ant that those who desire to include
it in their course should try to take
it in the Sophomore year. Only thus
will they be able to get in a second
year of Chemistry during their col-
lege course.

THE ENGLISH DEPARTMENT.

During the coming session, David-
son will have two full professors of
English, both of whom will devote
their entire teaching time to the
work of the department. English
1, repuired of all Freshmen, evil
meet three times a week instead of
twice, as formerly, and will include
not only the usua' study of composi-
tion and the analysis of selection
from contemporary American prose,
but also a survey of American itera-
ture. The class will be taught in
four sestions. In English 2, requir-
ed of all Sophomores, several hun-
dred pages of English poetry and
prose representing the various types
and periods will be read. The his-
tory of English literature will be
traced in its main outlines, and the
practical work in composition begun
in the Freshman year will be con-
tinued. This class will also be taught
in four sections, in order that each
student may receive a good deal of
personal attention from the profes-
sor.

The work of these two courses
will be equally divided between Dr.
Shewmake and Professor Erwin,
each of whom will have two sections
of Freshman English and two of
Sophomore.

wo elective courses will be offer-
ed. Dr. Shewmake will hape charge
of English 4, an advanced course in
American literature, with special at-
tention to Poe, Hawthorne, and
Emerson during the first term and to
later American writers during the
second term.

Professor Erwin will teach Eng-

.
>

lish 5, a course in advanced composi-.

tion thus explained in the new cata-
logue of the college: “The prin-
ciples of narration, of exposition,
and of argumentation are studied,
and these are applied not only in the
analysis of typical jshort stories,
essays, rations, and debates, but in
the writing of compositions in all
these forms. The course is particu-
larly recommended to students who
feel the need of training .in the prep-
aration of speeches and to those who
wish to write for publication.”
Courses in English usage, Old
English, Chaucer, the Elizatethan
drama, seventeenth-century English
literature, English prose of the
eighteenth and nineteen centuries,
and Victorian poetry have been
planned for the year 1921-1922.

LATIN.

All classes will be taught by Dr.
7 | Grey.
There will be three courses jsched-
njuled as Latin I, II and III. Latin I
will be taught in two sectiqns and
will embrace courses in Quintus Cur-
tius, Cicero’s De Senectute, and Livy
with a study of the grammar
through the case constructions and

weekly exercises in Latip prose
composition.
Latin II for Sophomores: Texts,

Livy and Horace, including a study
of the meters of Horace. The study
of the grammar will be continued
throughout the year along with
more advanced Latin prose composi-
tion.

Latin ITI, for students]who have ;

completed courses I and{[T, will in-
clude the translation offseveral of
the plays of Plautus ar Terrence
and thirteen satires Juvenal,
courses in prose compogtion and in
Latin literature.

All classes will recitethree times
a week.
