4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
to Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL... _...Editor-in-Chief

J. M. RICHARDS..-_........-...-.-------------- 2+ oon none e Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND... Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE.....-_--__.---_.--_--------~---+--~---.------- =~ --. Assignment Editor |
M. R. DOUBLES..._.......-..------------------------------- == ++ Athletic Editor
C.J. MATTHEWS..-....-- 22 enn enn een nnn nen ene n ene enn ne Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL..-.2 2 nnn nnn ne enn ee eee eee Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE...........---------. -------------------------+ = Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP....___...---_-.---~-..----------------------------- Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.............------~-----------+----------- 2 oe Y. M,C. A. Editor :
H. A. HILL. .W.....-..-.----..-----------.-- +--+ eons 7 Social Editor |
. M. GASTON, JR._.....----.------------~------------+---------- iterary tor |
k R. MeILWAINE wan nnnn nena nnn nw one ene n nee eee Official Photographer |

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, Ae A. McKEITHAN, J. H.
ep See Me, OGDEN, D. H.
COOPER, ° MAHOOD. DL ORMAND, A. C.
MITCHELL, A. M. SUMMERS, A. C..
PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C.

COOPER, W. J.
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Acting Business Manager

Assistant Managers

C. J. MATTHEWS.......------—-----------------------
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager |

E. A. NASH }
Assistant Manager

J. S. CURRY
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A wise old owl,
Lived in an oak,
The more he saw,
The less he spoke,
The less he spoke
The more he heard.
Why can’t we be
Like that old bird?’

J.

1
With the three hard games consigned to the past, the future looks |
good for victorious leaps of the Wildcats.

Just one-third of the student body at the Sunday night “Y" serv-
ices. Were you among the other two thirds?
“Roll old Wake Forest on the sod” is this Week’s campus war
cry.

The first month’s reviews are over. Are you satisfied with the start

you have made on your year’s work ?
A NEW CUSTOM.

T is a matter of common concurrence that the social life on this
I campus can hardly be termed as ideal in every respect inasmuch as
the opportunities are few and far between which are presented to
the students to realize the benefits that result from the association and
friendship of the fair ladies of our Southland. Until this year the ap-
pearance of our feminine friends have been limited to two. occasions,
namely, Senior and Junior Speakings, and this session there will be
only one, as Senior Speaking with its hardships for those concerned,
has sunk into oblivion. We do not advocate that a student should so
occupy himself with attention to the fair ones to the extent that his
college work falls into neglect, but we do believe that every man of
this institution should not be limited to one social event “in nine
months. A true college man is the well rounded man, not just an in-
tellectual or athletic giant. To attain this end then his social nature
must receive its training as well, or else that grace and poise in the
presence of ladies so characteristicof the Southern gentleman will be
lacking. lo

As the usual fall social function is to be no more, it has been sug-
gested that a new custom be originated in the way of an annual min-
strel to be given each year before Christmas. In order to complete a
program that will adequately take the place of Senior Speaking, it is
further suggested that a night be set aside for a concert by the band
as well as one for those students who wish to win fame in the halls of
oratory. The plan would give three night of varied and wholesome
pleasure which could be made the center of an uplifting social attrac-
tion.

The idea of an annual minstrel show while foreign to Davidson
campus, yet is one that is in vogue at a number of other institutions.
There is no doubt but that once begun this plan would become more and
more popular each year, as this would give an excellent opportunity for
the development of those talents along this line that are now unutiliz-
ed. For the various reasons already
much for this idea to be thought over
tice. It will mean another step forw
betterment of her social advantages.

AN OPPORTUNITY.

enumerated we would like very
and finally put into actual prac-
ard for Davidson, this time in the

Our publication has never deemed it wise to mak
tating to others as to how they should conduct and develop them
selves along spiritual lines. We have our ideas and beliefs concerning
the manner of living that is proper for a Christian, but at the same time
in accordance with our belief in the “doctrine of religious freedom” we |
refrain from airing them in this manner.

However, at this time we feel that it is our duty to say just a word
regarding the coming of Dr. Weatherford, who will conduct the fall
Evangelistic Service. He is a man of unusual ability as a forceful speak-
er, and this coupled with the fact that he knows college men and their
problems makes him ideal for this work. Dr. Weatherford is the found-
er of Blue Ridge, which is so well known to all students of Southern

e it a policy of dic-

HON. WILLIAM JENNINGS
BRYAN HEARD
AT GREENVILLE.

Delivers Address on Subject “Back
to God.”

colleges, and has just recently been
made president of the Y. M. C. A.
College at Nashville. The gripping,
earnest messages of this servant of
God together with J. L. Fowle, ’16,
to lead the singing will make. these
services outstanding in religious zeal
and earnestness.

Yet with all the talent and ability
of these gifted men, success will
not attend their effort unless YOU
are there at these services. Our
campus has an excellent tone, but
we are not blind to some defects

Under the auspices of Greenville
Woman’s College, Hon. W. J. Bry-
“y” an delivered an address at the First
Baptist Church, Monday evening,
the 27th. With his well-known
_oratorical skill, Mr. Bryan spoke on
.the subject, “Back to God.” <A half

Read the exchanges in the
Room.

if a body write a body,

that should be eradicated. With ev- jetting. od reply * ody. - hour before he was scheduled to
ery man attending these services| \2Y @ DOdy ask a body, speak, the commodious Sunday

Who the? What the? Why?

School auditorium of the First Bap-
—Furman Hornet.

tist Church was well filled. Prompt-
ly at 8:30 o’clock, Mr. Bryan ar-
If a fellow who loves a book is call- tived and as he stepped onto the

a book-worm, is a fellow who loves platform he was greeted with an ex-
to stay in bed a bed bug?—Ex. in tended ovation. Ex-Governor An-
Clemson Tiger. sel, whom Dr. Ramsay introduced
jas Greenville’s most distinguished

icitizen, presented Mr. Bryan.—Fur-

regularly the results will be of far-
reaching effect in putting our stu-
dent life on a higher plane of liv-
ing than ever before. Can YOU be
counted on to do your part? Will
you not see that the success of these
mectings is a subject of your per-
sonal prayers? With every man
working and praying as he should

‘there can be no doubt as to the up- MARYVILLE COLLEGE man Hornet.
‘lifting effects of the work of these BRASS BAND ——

men. This is your chance to do
something for a Better Davidson.
Will you measure up to the task ?

| Open Forum |

THAT OLD DAVIDSON “PEP.”

GUILFORD CLASS LAYS PLANS
FOR MEMORIAL.

Maryville College, of Maryville,
Tenn., has organized a 16 piece hand, ‘rhe class of 17, of Guilford Col-
a band as she expresses it with a lege, in a reunion held during Yearly
capital B.—Highland Echo. | Meeting, August 7, initiated the
| plan of raising a memorial fund to -

It is easy to live on love—between{be named for Ezra A. Moore. a
meals.—Highland Echo. member of the class who gave his

life while serving as a member of
Se TO the American Friends’ Reconstruc-
down we climb and give Charlotte; tion Force in France. This money
the best snake dance ever pulled at lis to be given to the college to be
Wearn Field. And then don’t for-!used in connection with the Biology
| zet after the scoring is over and the Department, a line of work in which
jlast “yell” is pulled everyone of us. Ezra was most  interested.—Guil-
—500 and nobody  absent,—will | fordian.
“Snake dance” up to Independence!
Square, and wake up the town!,

Did you hear about what a big
time we're going to pull off in the
Queen City on Saturday? Well, its
a short sweet little story like this:
There’s a tittle college down here
hear Raleigh—in a forest—oh!
Wake Forest, | believe, and ‘as I was
going to say before my geography
stopped me—they have a football
tcam that is looking out for one

PAN-HELLENIC RULING.

Ye ihe be Pe > :
“Red and Black” scalp to hang on Just, show em . phat Ole Davidson
their belts. Now that would look wait Whe ‘a i 5 Whe “The Pan-Hellenic Council has
good ina funny paper, but we don't, “UC? o said trafiic: iruled that a Freshman cannot be

‘traffic don’t matter when Davidson
comes to town and everybody will
enjoy it and won’t we have a grand
and glorious time?

Bear this in mind because that
“Snake dance” to the -Square will
be the big event before Keith's, and
everybody will knew the Wildcats '
went wild.

E. PLURIBUS UNUM.

| 0
;

initiated by a fraternity until he
has passed three-fifths of his terms
work, and that no Freshman will be
allowed in a Fraternity hall except
at Senior and Junior Speaking or
when there are ladies present.”

read the comic section, so it has to
go down in “Eddie” Brietz's sport
section of The Observer that the
Wildcats licked those Bad Baptists
to a very merry tune. Yes sir, that
will be the headline—“What makes
‘om Wild?”

Now after we see half of this
game and -have most yelled our
heads off for the “Red and Black,”

Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05, of Ham-
er, S.C, was on the Hill during the
past week.

eee TRS

Ki
!

iN

nl | a im “tl
ee"

in
: porta

ha

eG
il

nes =
i wh

| ~ cuttl
ce

“oft

Hit | ti
vt

p
ae!

ol

veo,
i
es

:

ae

ON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other Possession. hi
Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than
| true if it’s aW DC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi-
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack,
Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your Mal
way to pipe-happiness. ii

WM. DEMUTH & CO.. NEw vorK

/ WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS y
7
ye

Eg

iii ii

AT

