THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

‘HERE AND THERE
AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Congressman-elect Homer L. Lyon,
who will represent the Sixth District of
North Carolina in the next Congress,
has announced the appointment of John
Allen Thames, '18, as his private sec-
retary. Thames has been in Washington
since his discharge from the army, and
for the last eighteen months has been
secretary to Congressman Nicholls, of
South Carolina. Mr. Nicholls did not
ofter for re-election and will retire on
March 4 next, when Thames will assume
his duties with Mr. Lyon. He is also
studying law in Washington, and is now
in his second year at Georgetown Uni-
versity Law School. Last year he won
the prize that is offered each year to the
best debater in the law school.

Rev. J. E. Hemphill, ‘07, Superintendent
of Home Missions in Atlanta Presbytery,
has found it necessary to secure and use
an automobile truck in his distribution
of religious literature.

James Irwin Groome, ex-'18, is in busi-
ncss at High Point, N. C.

Carrol E. Patterson, ex-’20, has, since
his withdrawal from war service, located
at Los Angeles, California.

This space reserved

for the

Stonewall
Hotel

Charlotte, N. C.

CHARLOTTE
TRANSFER COMPANY

Phone 298

JAKE MARTIN, . Manager

Messrs. W. P. Cumming, '18, O. C. Wil-| DAVIDSON ALUMNI

hamson, 18, and E. H. Hamilton, '20, are
on the Editorial Staff of the Union
Seminary Review.

Rev. R. A. McLeod, ‘o9, of Manchester,
N. C., will be married on December the

first to Miss Lucy Worth Currie, sister

of A. L. Currie, ‘21.

‘George Howard, '12, of Tarboro, N. C.,
will be married to Miss Alelaide Van
Noppen, of Greensboro, N. C., on Decem-
ber first; the wedding to take place in
the First Presbyterian Church.

Latta Law, '16, is located in Cuba, his
address being Obisfeo 53, Havana.

D. M. L. McDonald, ’12, is in the office
directing the tuberculosis work at
Columbia, S. C., his health only permit-
ting him to work a part of the day.

Dr, J. Sam Mitchener, ‘og, is on the
staff of the State Board of Health pub-
lications at Raleigh, N. C. A _ poster
prepared by Dr. Michener was repro-
duced in the Survey (New York) of last
week.

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, who with
Mrs. McFadyen and the children are at
home from China for their second fur-
lough, spent the week-end at Davidson
and made two strong addresses. They
are in charge of a hospital at Hsuchoufu,
China.

p———__

DR. McFADYEN DOING IM-
PORTANT WORK FOR CHINA

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, a visitor and
speaker on the hill last Sunday, is an
alumnus of whom Davidson may be

m | justly proud. He was one of the leading
|athletes in his class, easily making the

football, basketball and tennis teams.
He was one of the main bulwarks of the
football team at the time when inter-col-
legiate football was beginning, making
his place easily every year. He was also
a famous track man, winning three first
places (pole vault, hundred yards, and
hammer throw) and two seconds in a
single meet (his Junior year.)

He graduated in 1899 from the school
of medicine which was incorporated in
Davidson at that time, and took various
post-graduate courses until 1904 when he
went out to China under the Southern
Presbyterian mission board.

He has been stationed in Huchoufu, the
northermost of our stations, where he
has been able, with the help of his wife
and one trained nurse, to build up one of

the most efficient of all our hospitals in.

foriegn lands. His patients number
about 15,000 every year.

Dr. McFadyen is of especial interest

s|to Davidson men because he is support-

ed in his work by the local church.
a » ee
DAVIDSON STUDENT

BEREAVED BY
DEATH OF FATHER

H. C. McCallum, Jr., ‘23, of White
Springs, Fla., was called home suddenly
last Wednesday on account of his fath-
er’s death. The whole student body
sympathizes with “Mac” over his great
loss, and everyone hopes that he will
soon return to take up his college course.

The following alumni saw the scrubs
in action at Pinehurst last week:

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99; A. A.
Campbell, ex-'22; Ernest Campbell,
ex-'19; E. T. McKeithen, ex-’06; Rev.
Alexander, '13; J. E. McKeithen, '18; J. G.
Sloan, ex-'22; “Bing” Davis, ex’22, and
Crisp, ex'23, both of them playing on
the State team.

J. M. Keith,.J. E. Weldon and J. H.
McKeithen also saw the game.
D—-___

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Peeler, the father
and mother of “Fresh” Peeler, and his
sister, Mrs. R. L. Miller and her hus-
band were on the hill Saturday for a
short visit.

TAKES HIGH RANK
IN EDUCATIONAL WORK

Dr. E. B. McGilvary Has Contribut- Bobby Long ha

ed Much to the Cause of Higher
Learning.

Evander Bradley McGilvary, '84, was
born in Bangkok, Siam, on July 19, 1864.
He was the son of Rev. Daniel and Mrs.
Sophia R. McGilvary, pioneer mission-
aries to the Siamese. He lived in that
country, where he received his prepara-
tory training, until he reached his teens.
Then he came to the United States and
entered Davidson College in’ 1881, grad-
uating from that institution in 1884 as
one of the leading men of his class.

After his graduation from Davidson,

he entered Princeton University, from)

which institution he received his Mas-
ter's degree in 1888. He was a fellow of
Princeton Theological Seminary 1889 and
1890. He received his Ph.D., from Uni-
versity of California in 1897.

Dr. McGilvary, on June 16 married
Elizabeth Allen Paton. He became
translator for Presbyterian Foreign Mis-
sions in Siam from 1891 to 1894. He was
Graduate Student-Instructor and As-
sistant Professor of University of Cal-
ifornja 1894 to 1899. Sage Professor of
Ethics at Cornell University 1899 to
1905. He has been Professor and Chair-
man of the Department of Philosophy at
University of Wisconsin since 1905.

Mr. McGilvary is a member of the Amer-
ican Philosophy Association (Pres. ‘12
and '13) and of the Western Philosophy
Association (Pres. ‘14 and ‘ts). He
translated Matthew, Luke, John, and
The Acts into the Lao dialect in 1892.
He is a contributor to New International

Encyclopedia, International Year Book,’

Mind, Philosophical Review, Psycholog-
ical and Scientific Methods, and many
other great books in this line.

In the line of Education, Davidson
claims Evander Bradley McGilvary as
one of her most noted sons, for he is no
mean power in the educational world.
His present address is Arlington Place,
Madison, Wisconsin.

D-————__
COULD YOU USE $25.00?

Davidson Students Eligible for Es-
say Contest on Money Making
in College.

The closing date for Arthur Murray's
Essay Contest has been postponed to
December 20. This will give students
more time to compete for the $75 in
prizes offered for the best s00 word
composition on “Five Ways of Earning
Money at College.”

Anyone may enter. The prizes will be

Lawarded for the best ideas rather than

on the use of good English. If a con-
testant writes a 100 per cent essay, as
far as composition is concerned, and
spends his time telling how to be a
first-class writer, his chances of win-
ning a prize are not overly bright.

Eight przies are being offered by Ar-
thur Murray, who earned $15,000 a year
while working his way through Georgia
Tech by teaching dancing. Mr. Mur-
ray is especially anxious to hear from
students who are now earning money at
college. Manuscripts should be sent to
him at 143 East 39th Street, New York,
N. Y.

Already a number of rather unique ex-
periences are told in the essays. One
fellow in Texas brought a number of
cows to the college and made money
selling milk to the students. Another
relates that he raised white mice in the
basement of his boarding house.

In writing the essay, the contestant
should give at least two original ways of
making money. The other three methods
may be based on the experiences of oth-
ers. Twenty-five dollars will be given
for the first prize; seven other prizes,
scaling down to $5 are offered. The win-
ning essays will be published in one of
the leading national magazines.

muter’s tickets to Winston-Salem.
Aleo Expected.

THE PEANUT PARCHER.

(Continued from page 4)

Expected. It is surprising, the number of the fel-
It is rumored about the campus that/lows who wish to spend Thanksgiving

is enquired of the South-/at “home,” in Charlotte, in Winston, in
ern if they will issue week-end com-} Rock Hill and in Greensboro.

Carolina-Virginia Football Game
Thanksgiving Day

. November 25
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

Will Operate Extra Sleeping Care and Day Coaches From
Charlotte Winston-Salem Salisbury
Hickory Greensboro High Point ,

Special Train From Charlotte, November 24, 1920.

Schedule: Arrives Charlottesville

Leave Charlotte 535 pm 4:12 a. m. Nov. 25
eave Concor 100 pm : :

Leave Salisbury 8:sopm Returning Special
Leave Lexington 9:23pm train leaves

Leave Thomasville 9:40pm Charlottesville

Leave High Point 9:54PM 1:25 a. m. Nov. 26

Leave Greensboro 10:30 p

Sleeping cars may be occupied until 7:30 a. m., Charlottesville, No-
vember 25.

Sleeping cars open for occupancy 9:00 p. m., Charlottesville, November 25.

MAKE YOUR RESERVATION NOW

Call on nearest agent for information concerning fares, sleeping car
rates and schedules or address

R. H. GRAHAM, D. P. A,, Charlotte, N. C.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

Phone 3626

213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

Robinson Shoe Company

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes
for the Young Men’s Trade

MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION

Robinson Shoe Company |

Gastonia, N. C.

qeesoccccecesceccoccoccosoosesccessocecceevescocsecsevcosscesceccescosscceccacsonces

December Columbia
Records Now On
Sale Here

Get the latest
in music while
it is the latest.
To make a good
recordgreatplay
it on a Colum-
bia Grafonola.

W. T. McCOY & CO., - Charlotte, N.C.

SOOCCSSOOC CSO DEDOLOOROO RCO C OCC OOOO COORROO RRR O CROC COC OOCCCOCOROEOCOES
SOHCooCESeOEDOCEOOEdODDOSEEOOOSEOOEECOCOOCOOOCCOCOOOSOCCCCOSCOCCOOCCCCSS
