THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

. Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL........-----22---------+-------- nnn nnn n-ne one Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS..-...-..------+----------------- 22 0----2------ Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND..-..-.---. eewananne-------------------Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE.--..-----------------------.-----------------------Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES........------------------ 2-2 one nen een een en-- Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN--______--__.----.- --------------------------<--Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL.._....------------ 22 = --- 22 nnn nne none nen nnn ae Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE...__-_-_.-----.--£---  -----~------------------- <==. Forum Editor
J: M. DUNLAP....__._--------~--------------+--------2<-- -----Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.....-..---------------------0-- Y. M._C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL......-----.-----.----------- 775ocial Editor

. M. | : enn En en iterary Editor
Fe MWA E_____-.--- 2 as een eaweanenaee-a-------Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, R. LONG, C. G. OGDEN, D H.

COOPER, W. J. ME GW. ORMAND, A. C.
CUNNUNGHAM, C.E. MITCHBLL, A.M. SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W.. | WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: .
C. J. MATTHEWS...------------------- ~------------------=- Business Manager
E. A. NASH mwccececccaccennacesecna cecece--- ..---------Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: . ;
C. H. LONG_____.---~---------.-------2 200 -n oo oe - oe ne == Circulation Manager
J. C WOOL.-_..-.--------------. -----------....---Assistant Manager

Patronize our ‘Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We are glad to see that the R.O. T. C. is becoming a useful as well
as ornamental organization. They are to be congratulated upon the
efficient handling of the large crowd at Saturday’s game.

D——-—_—_—-

On to Winston is the campus slogan for this week. Let each mem-
ber of the student body be there if he has to save, skimp and borrow
to do it. The team needs this moral backing for its fifth straight vic-

tory.
THE BEST WAY OUT .”

that is now being waged in the Open Forum relative to the harm

of certain college yells recently used at our athletic games. We be-

lieve that this matter has been “aired” sufficiently by those of both sides

and that nothing will be gained bya continuance of this “give and

take” policy. Hence this issue will mark the close of this contention,

and we have taken upon ourselves the high privilege of having the last
word.

Frankly we cannot find ourselves in complete harmony with every-
thing that has been said either for or against these yells and songs, but
upon this one point we are emphatically agreed that it is not compatible
with Davidson ideals to use that one yell which carries with it the ex-
pression: “the whole —— team.” Perhaps some are not able to distin-

ish between this and a certain song that is so familiar to us, yet to the
fellow who will actually think this out we believe that he will soon come
to see and know that such a yell is not worthy of a Davidson student
body, as its tendency is toward the profaning rather than the maintain-
ing of the fair name of our school. —

Space does not permit for a detailed argument in this matter, yet
we would insist that the use of the aforesaid yell be discontinued. This
type of cheering cannot possibly do any good, and it will do harm to
the reputation of our college. Under such circumstances, let it be re-
solved that from henceforth only that kind of yelling will be counte
nanced that will indicate that true, clean and fair spirit that has always
been the dominating feature of our campus life. ;

D—___—_

WHAT'S THE REASON?

Recently several of the student body meetings have witnessed a
’ type of action entirely uncalled for This has been the leaving of assem-
bly hall on the part of some students during the addresses of men in-
vited to speak to the students. Such occurances not only embarrass ‘the
speaker, but still worse the impression of Davidson created thereby is
far from being an excellent one. Within our knowledge such a disregard
of courtesy has not been manifested on our campus for years, and sure-
ly this is not the time to begin such a practice. .

We must confess that we fail to see a logical reason for such pro-
miscuous leaving, and our only solution of the matter is that this is due
ta one of the following several reasons. In the first place it may be due
to thoughtlessness on the part of the men doing such a thing. It is to be
trusted that this is not intentional. If it is check yourself immediately.
In the second place it may be due to some students thinking that these
men have no real message for them. They were never more mistaken
in their lives, and they are losing a valuable chance to learn and acquire
something really worth while. Finally, to an outsider it would appear
that it is due to a gross lack of proper courtesy. If this is the case, it
certainly reflects most shamefully upon the home training, and for boys
coming from the best families in the South to be guilty of such action,
it is something that is simply amazing.

After sober judgment we can think of only the reasons enumerated
above, and have written plainly concerning them. To the students who
have been discrediting our school, for this is what it amounts to, the
plea is made that you face the matter squarely and judge for yourself
the reason of your action. Ask yourself the question, if such occurances
are due to your not being capable of thinking clearly as to what is best
for you; or is it that you are so egotistical that you think these visitors
cannot tell you anything; or is it that you are simply lacking in those
elements of courtesy worthy of a gentleman. This ts written straight
to the point, but if the cap fits then wear it. Yet with it all, the re-
quest is made in all earnestness that hereafter such acts will not be in-
dulged in by any student, nor that the student body will tolerate this
action that is so unjust to the standards of our school.

I T has been a matter of much interest to us to watch the discussion

found themselves engulfed in a cloud of

Open rum S smoke. Investigation proved that a fire

| Fo | EXCHPNGe had started downstairs, probably from a
eX? short circuit in the electrict wires.

THE POINT SYSTEM. (sit) Pau 4 A The only injuries received was a

Z I smashed finger resulting from an auto-

, Nei! : mobile jack with which one of the noble
d Mh Chl ll i student fire-fighters was trying to break

a hole in the floor.

The present point system of honors
was inaugurated quite a few years ago
and like many other things has not been
revised with the growth of Davidson. Read the exchanges in the “Y”
This has been discussed among many Room. Mutual.
members of the student body and based ’ .

on these conversations the following “Dear Mary,” wrote the young man
revision, which seems to be logical in Fire in University Hall Causes who had been turned down the night be-

comparison with the other college Excitement. ‘fore, and craved vengeance, “Last night
honors rating points, is offered, R. O. . : . . 1 proposed to you, but really have for-
T. C. major 5 points; captains 1 point;|_ A fire in Madison Hall, University of gotten whether you said yes or no.
band leader, 3 points. Virginia Friday morning caused no lit-| these little things slip one’s mind so.”
Y. M.C. A. treasurers, 3 points; board| le excitement among the students asleep) «near will,” she wrote back, “I was so
of control, 1 point; Glee Club leader,|i" the building. Only one student was/ 124 to get your letter. I remember hav-
3 points; manager, 2 points; assistant able to sleep entirely through the fire; ing said no to someone last night, but
manager, 1 point. and thought they were joking when the/i.34q forgotten to whom. These little
This is a proposition that should be other students told him that the building things certainly do.”—Americah Legion

given consideration. These jobs have had been afire. . . “ Weekly.
either been created or enlarged until] The College Topics editors were “run-

a revision is absolutely necessary. These | "8 the dog” of the paper about 2:15
men are due this consideration, and|Friday morning when. they suddenly
don’t forget that the men in college that
really are of value to their school are
the men who get out and do things.
These men who rate the jobs mentioned
are doing something for your college
and deserve this honor that the student
body can give them..
Shall we give them credit?
E. Pluribus Unum.

—___p —___
GET BUSY.

A Tuscalo girl is suing her employer
for $5,000 damages on account of a most
peculiar accident which occurred in the
worthy, but it would be well to keep a|home where she is employed as a domes-
closer watch on some of them. tic. She was taking her bath by the

A second way is through the students |kitchen range and she stepped out of
themselves. When as large a body as|the washpan, slipped on a cake of soap
this is gathered together there is bound|on the floor and sat down on the stove.
to be some sneak thief. Let us be on the| When she arose she was branded “Ma-
alert and the first one that is caught | jestic.”—Villa Grove (Ilt.) News.
make an example of him by tarring and
feathering him. This is a barbarous Pants are made for men and not for
action, but it will be an effective ex- women. Women are made for men and
ample. not for pants. When a man pants for
A third way is through the town boys/a woman and a woman pants for a man,
and agents. They roam through the|that makes a pair of pants. Even a dog
buildings at will when they really are|pants. Pants are like molasses. They
not allowed to. No one is allowed in|are thinner in hot weather and thicker
the buildings but the janitors. The next] in cold. There has been much discus:
suspicious character you see on your) sion as to whether pants are singular or
floor and stop him and ask him his bus-| plural. Seems to us that when men wear
iness and if he cannot explain his prey pants it is plural and when they don’t
ence satisfactorily advise him never wear pants it is singular. If you want
return. Put a little point to this advice|to make pants last, make the coat first.
by kicking him down about three flights| - Richmond Collegi
of stairs. ™~ egian.

Fellows, it is very inconvenient to lock
your door all the time and the quicker
we get rid of this undesirable element
and make things safe for democracy
the better it will be for all concerned. Will They Ever Learn?
Everybody on the hop now and lets find} Very Green Rat—“When they speak of
the guilty parties and deal summarily |a broken field run, do they mean the run
with them. S. C. A. [was made over plowed ground?”

Fellows, why stand we here idle? The
most unusual amount of stealing in the
history of the college is going on at our
very doors.

Amounts ranging all the way from
one to fifty dollars have been taken
from the pockets of men while they were
out taking exercise. This is not true of
any spccial floor, but has occurred in ev-
ery dormitory with alarming frequency.
Even articles of clothing, such as hats,
shoes, and raincoats have disappeared in
such a way as to leave no doubt that
they were deliberately stolen.

There are just three ways that these
thefts could occur, and we should have
no difficulty in cutting these down if
every one will get busy.

The first way is through the janitors.
They are all for the most part trust-

You can lead a student to lectures but
you can’t make him think.

vil

1 I
lyf Ey
My

HAT man doesn’t like his pipe? There's nothing whets
your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around.
iy Because you know that in it ie the only real smoke satisfaction.
Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it isa WD C, because in
WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine
: French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process,
' Then, too, W DC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are
pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree with us that our °
craftamen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that
are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be
sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against
cracking or burning through.

Wno. DEMUTH & CO.. NEw vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

1 tg
