The Selwyn Hotel

FIRE PROOF

Located in thc heart
of Charlotte, conven-
ient to railroad sta-
tions, street cars, busi-
ness and shopping cen-
ters.

Table d’hote lunches,
12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO-
PEAN.

Rooms $1.50 and up:
with bath $2.00 and up.

Our system of artes:an
water flowing through the
building.

H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Walker’s Drug Store

———

The Service Store

Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

NEW INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARIES are in use by business

men, engineers, bankers, judges. archi-
tects, physicians, farmers, teachers. li-
brarians, clergymen, by successful
men and women theworld over.

ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN?
The New International is an all-knowing
teacher, auniversal question answerer.

400,000 Vocabulary Terms, 2700 Pages. 6000 §
(ustrations. Colored Plates. 30,000 Geograph-
ical Subjects. 12,000 Blographical Entries.

Regular and Indla-Paper Editions.
° .

Write for 8pee-
imen Pages, H-
Bf iustrations,cte,
Free, o act of
Pocket Mops if
you namo this

X ORO OX OK SX OLMAK X EXER XU

!

BradyPrinting Co.

Statesville, N. C.

The College Printers

PITTI IIT tr rir rei tii tii iti cid

Wy See eee © | CSS SDSS SOO BOSSES ES

If you want good printing
and quick service, BRADY
Is THE MAN TO DO
IT.

Merri iitiitgitir iii iit iit iiii iti tit gti

ORDERS SOLICITED

se

A TTHE COMMISSARY

16 Chambers

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

NOTHING SPECIAL SPECIAL.

We wish to remind all contribut-
‘ors to this department (including A.
.G. Oltman) that we are running a
| Peanut, not a Chestnut, Parcher.

Why can’t someone endow a Jan-
itorship ?

| Fresh Thompson, to Sergeant in

Armory—“! want some chevrons.”
Sergeant. to Fresh Thompson in

,Armory—“What iz your rank?”

Fresh Thompson—“Front.”

Absence card day was celebrated
, Monday by about 95 per cent of the
«students (5 per cent being off the
hill for the week-end). The color
scheme was carried, or rather sent,
out by Chalmers and Cummings in
Postal Card White and in the ma-
‘jority of the cases “Meet Commit-
tee” Blue.

| Representative Honor Card as
‘handed in by Senior Class: “Can-
,didate for class basket-hall; tennis
| racket stringers club; chief fine-pay-
,er of Phi society; attended “Y” (2
times); punctuality roll (for meet-
ling absence committee) ; coal-steal-
-ers club (2 yrs); member of- Fresh
‘class (1 yr.) rooter at foot-ball
games ; tank painters union; name in
Peanut VParcher; guest of (dis)
‘honor at student council meeting”
(2 times).

1 A most enjoyable meeting of the
‘Senior class was held after chapel
| Monday morning. After a brief
‘business meeting, which consisted
_of trying to find out who had called
‘the meeting, a delightful three
'course luncheon was dished up by
| Miss Alina Wilson and Mr. Fill Up
Hart. John D. Wiley, Bob Allison
‘and others present report a large
‘time.

We've got a good one on Mr. Cas-
sell, but its no use, since all this stuff
has to go thru his hands and we
i have no desire for any of our efforts
.to “reach the waste basket.” (Apol-
 ogies to Christian Observer).

__ The crops in this section were vis-
‘ited by a refreshing rain last Fri-
day.

A. P, Ormand claims that last
week’s Peanut Parcher did not con-

tain enough references to persons which dominated the convention

on the Hill.

A. P. Ormand attended chapel
Monday. ‘

Alabama Club takes up practice
of calling members by first names,
but are dismayed when they are con-
fronted by R. T. L.’s trio and are
unable to decide which one to use.
A vote will be taken on the question
at the next meeting of the organi-
zation.

Most of Jim Boulware’s David-
sonian paper has disappeared but he
doesn’t know it yet.

“Why should a fellow be crazy
about a girl?”—Alabamian.
“Ain't women good

though?”—Zeb Morris.

looking,

We know some fellows who pull
mail every morning——around the
first of the month.

Skeeter Meacham has a scheme
to put the art stores out of busi-
ness. He announces that he secures
his pictures by buying ten-cent

|
. sheet music and framing the covers.|ed together, would be longer than|

As Friend Wilson remarked, once’ since the birth of Christ to the pres-
upon a time, “You can't down ent day. In Africa alone there are
Brains.” 80,000,000 pagans, and thousands of
miles of land over which the name
Weather Forecast: February 27, of Christ has never been heard. An
28, 29 will be wet and rainy. Pay African chief, after sending for a
no attention to regular observer... number of times for a teacher, came
The above forecast is more reliable once more to plead with the mis-
than even Old Blum’s Almanac. sionaries. He said, “If you don’t
send us a teacher now, we will tell
More enjoyable receptions than God on you.” How many Davidson
that one held in the Library base- men will have to face such an ac-
ment Monday afternoon have been cusation. Richards gave Eddy's test
attended by local society fiends. of a Christian’s character: (1) “Are
you pure? (2) Are you honest: (3)
Capt. C. K. Brown, of the D. C. Are you surrendered? (4) Are you
. Engineers, surveyed Georgia’s front ready to lead a sacrificial life ?” clos-
‘yard last week. ing with the call, “Let us get off the
sidelines of criticism and into the
Probably being inspired by the game of service.”
Aequeous rain which was operating The message of Chalmers closed
without, Friday’s public speaking the program. “The thing that has
class with one accord rose to “Sink impressed me,” he said, “is that we
or Swim.” here in America have no copyright
on the heroism and honor in the
“To be taken only before meals,” world.”"He showed that in the world
read the directions. war other races did fully as much
“Thank goodness they're not giv- service as the Anglo-Saxon, To
ing me anything to eat,” remarked every American soldier lost there
the patient. “were two African soldiers lost. In-
dia lost over 1,000,000 men. | It is
A general epidemic of borrowing not the color or race that is the true
hit the Hill last Thursday and Fri-; test. The one great test is service.
day. The photographer was here. Ile quoted Eddy’s statement, that
Boney is reported to have been seen. this was the largest and most open-
beating it from Chambers to Geor- minded convention that the move-
gia with a stiff collar but—we'll ment had ever had, but that in deep,
know if it’s true when the Annuals consecrated lives it was an absolute
get here. failure. The great secret of Mott's
life and power is prayer. R. EF.
“We haven't had a strike in this! Speer said that he had read the New
‘town yet,” boasted the Booster, but Testament thru 1,000 times. So, if
just then the clock contradicted him, any one would find success in his
life it must be thru consecration to
It’s all right to tell a girl.she is Him who gave all for us.
interesting, but it is better to have!
“never loved at all” than to inform
a young Jady that she is amusing.

THEY WIN IN A WALK
We have caught the stride with a heavy line
of medium weight suite for young men built
on the new athletic measurements.
Sults as full of pep asthe pepper box—siagle
or double breasted.
Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or
checks. Come in and you'll see we have
done it brown. ‘

34S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

In case you have been wondering
About the lack of song

In this issue of the paper.
Then, Son, wander right along.

DES MOINES DELEGATES |

(Continued from page 1)
service in the coliseum.  Lesides
these were the various prayer
groups which met from time to
time. On the first afternoon Mott
and Speer made the opening ad-
dresses of the convention, That
night an illustrated lecture on the
countries of the world was given by
Hill, and Sherwood [eddy spoke on
the Near East. On the first morning
session the time was given to re-
viewing the religious agencies in
America, That afternoon calls from
the different races of the world were
given and Dr. Jas. 1. Vance ad-
dressed the evening session. On the.
second day the various religions of
the world were reviewed. Mott told
‘of the accomplishments and work of
the Volunteer Movement... The eve-
ning service was addressed by Speer.
On the third day representatives of
the volunteer unions of China, Japan
and Mexico were heard. On the

fourth day [eddy gave a stirring call
for volunteers, and the speeches of
J. R. Mott and R. E. Speer closed
the convention. To Litzer the spirit

twas that of prayer, and its watch-
word, “Pray as if everything de-
pended upon God; work as if every-
thing depended upon you.”

Richards then gave his message
from the conference. The thing that
had impressed him most, he said,
was the immensity and challenge of
the task of evangelizing the world.
Over the platform hung the motto
of the Volunteer Movement—“The
Evangelization of the World in This
Generation.” But to show the great-
ness of this task, Richards gave ay
few illustrations. If the hall at:
which the meetings of the conven-'
tion were held, seating 10,000, were |
filled every day with 10,000 of those |
who had not known the Gospel, it
would take 365 years to seat them’
all. There are over  1,000,000,000
souls that have never heard of
Christ. To take the Gospel to this
immense number at the present is
the task of a force of 10,000 mis-
sionaries. If each of the mission-
aries were allowed one minute, add-
ed together, their time would make
about one week; while if each soul
that has not heard the Gospel be’
allowed one minute, the time, add-

WE print the Davidson College
Magazine, the Davidsonian, and
many other GOOD publications.
The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this
magazine to describe them---but we have room for

your work. Give us a trial.

paveemneommeefe

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention

guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643

