THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

AVIDSONIAN

Founded by Clase of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

The D

ee

Published Weekly by the Students of Davideon College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class. :

SUBSCRIPTION RATBS:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

. Editor-in-Chief

BH. ASKEW... 0c. ccescccsccccncescseeceessn sen soessoessseecsasenn canes wz

BILL... csc ccsccccccvecceccverassccresccesssssasscsscccssssses naging Editor
Fee CRSP AREL Irciiiuuisssesesessuencecesecsecce SIN Assignment Editor ,
ee SOBABEILL.... denne nec leneccceeesecceeeeseeeneeeeese eens ee ee ens Alumnt Edttor |
D. M. CHALMERS Exchange Editor
EL A, BILL... ccc ccc cs rerccccseccvcvcivcsccccoee ...Forum Editor
T. H. GPENCD......:scccccsccocccecccccsceseses Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN C. A. Editor
A Le WILSON, occ ccccccccccncncccesssssenene esse en eeee eee ee eee eee eens eee 5 cial Eattor
JM GABTON, ‘St..essssscevesssvsssecessnsnssessnsenerseneesssees segs ticks ey once
Cc. H. LONG.........------ veenn nnn nnnnnnnnrnntcccccc acc nececencceecea-ne---Acting Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Ww. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD |
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGOETT
T. F. MARTIN
3. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

Ww. W. MOORE

J. M. RICHARDS
J. Cc. WOOL

N.
T. L. LISTON

R. CRAIG

B. CUNNINGHAM
M.
P.
¢c.

Additional reporters for this iesue are:

J. T. Wilkes, Jr.; A. C. Ormond, Jr.; J. w. Mauze, |
. Gamble, Jr.; D. 1. Ogden, A. P. Ormond, C. B. Sanders, A. D. Kin:

EDITORIAL |

The “Million Dollar Issue’—For some reason the management
likes the name.

Alumni, if you do sign a pledge, and you will, sign the pledge on
page 9—Give The Davidsonian credit.

THE MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN ISSUE.

EALIZING the importance of making the MILLION DOL-
LAR CAMPAIGN a great success, The Davidson‘an wishes to
take this time to call the attention of the Alumni and
friends to the fact that there is a great deal of work to be
done yet. On January | there had been $650,000 raised, the
campaign closes March 1, $350,000 more must be raised or the larger
part of what has already been done will be lost.

We have named this number the “MILLION DOLLAR CAM-
PAIGN ISSUE” and in this we have tried to call to the attention of the
Alumni a few of the reasons why they should come to the aid of their
Alma Mater now, as never before. '

You will find on the Alumni page:
the pledge card which we ask that you will carefully read, fill out for as
large amount as possible and mail to the college. The students are be-
hind the movement and are pledging themselves to the limit—we know
that the Alumni will do as much. C. J. M.

Five New Year Resolutions Every Student Should Make and Keep.

1. Whereas our purpose in being here is to learn we will avail
ourselves of every opportunity offered.

2. We will regularly attend all classes and college exercises.
3. We will prepare our daily recitations.

4. We will attend all Bible class and Y meetings.

5. We will not neglect our outside opportunities.

Five New Year Resolutions Some Students Need Not Make.
1. Whereas our purpose in being here is to have a good time, we
will avail ourselves of every opportunity offered.
2. Our face shall be familiar to the absence committee.
3. When studies beckon we will be previously engaged.
4. We will take our weekly privilege to Charlotte.
5. We will attend classes as a funeral and enjoy them as much.

my O the men who are now attending Davidson it is useless to
7A enumerate the various needs of the college. Every day they
SOR sec them and every day they are impressed with the fact that
eae money could not be spent in a better way. As they go
2s through the halls of Chambers and see the need of repairs
and improvements, as they visit the gymnasium and are hampered by
lack of equipment in the taking of their daily exercise, as they work in
the laboratories and class rooms and find there the need of adequate:
facilities,( and finally as they come to their crowded rooms at night
and endeavor to study with their two room mates who perhaps have an
easy day before them and are inclined to be loquacious, they know that.
if the college is to progress some radical changes must be made. They’
also know that for these improvements to be ample, sufficient means.
must be provided. ;

In the past few years various campaigns have been conducted at
the college, all of which have resulted in the attainment of the goal and,
in most cases the surpassing of the minimum mark set. + Last year
during the throes of the S.A. T. C., within two hours more than $8,000 »
was raised for the united war work fund. This was done by a stu-
dent body of little over 300. This year with a registration of almost
450 we are going to do greater things. We are going to put across the |
greatest drive the college has ever seen. Not for others this time, but
for ourselves.

Throughout this state a stupendously large fund is being raised for ,
Presbyterian schools and colleges. Men and women who have never,
attended or received any direct benefit from these institutions have sac-_
rificed to the utmost that the work of Christian education might be
enhanced. If those who are not directly benefited are doing their share |
how much more can they expect of us, the recipients of their generos-
ity? No man who has attended a college is a creditor to it, he owes a
debt both to the institution and to those who have made his education
possible. It cost the college, it cost somebody, more than he put into it.

The campaign which will be put on at Davidson is simple. It will
occupy only a few hours, but in this time every man must do his part.

a

\ A fa
hee
“y

~
*

The amount to be raised may seem at first large, but considering the

time
one.

in which it can be paid there is no hardship to be worked. on any

The inspiration which success among the students would cause in
the general campaign can not be estimated. To know that those whom
they are helping are also helping themselves will strengthen the sub-

scriptions more than anything else.

In such a crisis the students have

never failed to do their duty. Prepare then for the biggest thing that
Davidson has ever pulled off and do your part to assure its success.

(30)

(ge
L 4
BITS OF COLLEGE
PHILOSOPHY

is
Read the College Exchanges in the Library
Gleaned From the College Press.

As

Mighty few men have sprained,

their wrists in their eagerness to
turn over new leaves.

Don’t kid yourself you've got a

business longer than you have.

Be sure the money you've invest-,

ed in books pays you dividends.

What’s the use of a six-cylinder
mind that ain’t hittin’ on but three?

_ The college boy is hard to find

Who hates a “sport” and loves a
“grind.”
Don’t get homesick ; perhaps you
weren’t half as valuable there as you
thought you were.

Some men give according to their
means, others according to their
meanness.

Going to the bad is a poor way of
proving that you are a good fellow.

Thermometers are not the only
things without brains that are grad-
uated.

The Lord hates a quitter—
But He doesn’t hate him, son,
When the quitter’s quitting some-
thing
He shouldn’t have begun.

_. There are a lot of profs here we'd
like to say things about, but, gee,
we've got classes under ’em.

You can drive a fool to talk but
you can’t make him think.

Just as the average man reaches
for farhe his pipe goes out.

You can’t judge what a man gets
out of college by the amount of
money he spends.

‘Movies to be Shown Again During

good line; the prof’s been in the:

Spring Term.

The movie shows for the present

;term will begin Thursday night at 7
‘o'clock in the gymnasium. The pic-

ture for this week is “The Man
From Painted Post.” Dug Fair-
banks is the star of the picture and
a fine show is expected. Those in
charge have not received a synopsis
of the story but it is recommended
as a good picture. The pictures this
spring will be run and managed in
the same way that they were last
fall. A number of good plays will
be shown and it is hoped that all
the students will enjoy this form of
amusement:

In order not to conflict with the
basketball game Friday night the
picture this week will be on Thurs-
day night.

a
——

Wilson Highway to Be
Connecting Link Be-
tween Charlotte

and Davidson

Plans Under Way for Much-Needed
Road to the Queen City

The recent move to construct a
30-foot hard surface road from
Charlotte to Davidson has met with
hearty enthusiasm in the Davidson
student body. The very poor condi-
tion which the road is now in is no
doubt partly responsible for the in-
frequency of visits to the city. Da-
vidson and Charlotte are mutually
assets to each other and a good road
connecting them would benefit both
places.

When Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick came
to Davidson speaking in the recent
congressional campaign he had to
come over the road in its present
bad condition. When he arrived at
Davidson he had already made up
his mind to promote a good road be-
tween the College and Charlotte.
Mr. Hoey made the trip a few days
later and came to the same con-
clusion—that a good road at this
point was a necessity.

Aside from the consideration that
a good road would bring money to
Charlotte — Davidson students
spending about $400,000 a year—is
the consideration that Davidson
would become accessible to the peo-
ple of Charlotte. Numerous people
who would like to visit, Davidson be-
cause of friends here or because it is
a point of interest are prevented
from doing so because of the condi-
tion of the road.

G. D. Elliott, ex-’20, and J. A.
Shaw, 718, are studying medicine at
the University of North Carolina.
Mr. Shaw was on the Hill for a few ©
days this week. Shaw and Elliott
will be recalled as the star tackles
on the famous Wild Cat machine of

| APES

wrt man doesn’t like his pipe? There's nothing whets
your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around.

Because you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction.
Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it isa WDC, because in
WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine
French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process.
Then, too, W DC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are m
pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree with us that our a
craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that
are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be !
sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against
cracking or burning through.

Woe. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES :

