THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1920.

DAVIDS

The

NIAN

Founded by Class of ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

ASKEW.

aeees Editor-in-Chief

E dese nee e hehe e eee n ene e senses esses eserreener nee ees ees seses Managing Editor
‘a FR BOUL WAR SE ccc cc ccccesevencn snes ence rere ees sense eee esas sees Assignment Editor
x & SC ORSKIL Eities . Bohense Eaitor

cha:

E A. Say LMEns ..Forum Editor
T. H. SP! ...-Campus Editor
L. o. -¥. M. C. A. Editor
B. Li WILSON... .. cc ccc cece ence sence ene sa snr er eee ee eee seense eee tetsenns Social Editor
J. M. GASTON. Ir... ccc cece cece wees cece renee re reese esses sere reece teesenas Literary Editor
R. BR. McILAWAINE..... ccc ccc ccc ence cs eetaracnctrccroee de cnccccevee Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WwW. P. CUMMING D.
J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHBLL
R. BITZER B. B. BRBEITE
M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES
T, F. MARTIN WwW. W. MOORE
J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHA
E. H. TUFTS J. C. WOOL

. BOOKER L. MAHOOD
. L. LISTON,
R. CRAIG

Cc.

BN
R. T.
R.
. BE. CUNNINGHAM
M.
P.
cS

J. M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE

A. C. SUMMERS.

Additional-reporters for this issue are: Fricker, A. F.: King, A. D.; Smith, i. iL; David-
i «

~- . FE; . 3. Wes Denny, S711; Manning, F. E.; Long, C. G.; Smith, W. C.: Ogden, 2»
“— Hy Mause, OW: s'Sander, “C. Wa Gamble, W.W.; itailey, J.C; Beatty, EA. :

C. 3, MATTHBWS.......--c ccc cccsecscees deeb eee ceeeesecseeeeeeeeeenee Business Manager

T, H. WILSON......... cece cece cece ee cec nese ee eeeeceseee ence ceaeres .... Assistant Manager

ae eeeeee reer rer eres secseceess Circulation Manager

7% i MOACHDLL. seeee Vacs eeee meee seeeeeee PESTO eErTTeeeLeeeTererrrey Assistant Managers

Cc. H. LONG - . Assistant: Manager

EDITORIAL

Information from Louisiana Emergency Hospital Ward says that As-
kew will write another editoral on how to remain immune from the
“flu” as soon as he recovers from his present iffdispdsition due to this
‘disease.

Laugh and keep healthy is a wise saying, so why the necessity of
cancelling the Lyceum number forSshis week?

THE CHARLOTTE SPIRIT.

was complaining about the Charlotte attitude towards the college. It

seemed like the newspapers, were not interested in anything that Da-
vidson tried to do--their athletic games staged were unattended, in brief
Charlotte appeared to the students to be utterly indifferent and cold
towards Davidson, Such an aceusation cannot be made tiow. Char-
lotte’s newspapers and Charlotte’s citizens have more than made up for
past neglect. A real spirit of fellowship and appreciation has develop-
ed on the part of Charlotte for Davidson, which is logically and actually
-Charlotte’s college. Those attending the State College-Davidson foot-
ball game last fall will testify readily to the cordial reception and sup-
port Charlotte showed for Davidson. Those attending the recent David-
sonian banquet can justly praise Charlotte’s newspapers for their pub-
licity and support and Charlotte’s leading citizens. for their kind rema
rks and pledged support.

It would be hard to say what caused this change—it isn’t really nec-
essary. We. know that there is a great change caming over the two
places—it may be that Davidson has shown that they wanted to be av-
ticed and that they were relying on Charlotte for support. Whatever
the cause is, let it continue until Charlotte will be 100 per cent David-
son, and Davidson will be almost a Charlotte institution. We are in-
deed grateful to Charlotte for all that she has done. In return we will
play all the athletic games there we can and make ourselves conspic-
uous for Charlotte at every opportunity.

I: has not been many months age since the Davidson student body.

CUTS.

The past season for class and chapel cuts closed January 20 and we
are now on the first month of the new season. Husband your cuts even
if you are not trying to make the honor roll. You are making a mis-
take in cutting classes this early in the long, hard days that lic ahead
of you in the lazy, dreamy days ofSpring. And then when you miss a
chapel you are breaking away from the healthy routine of three meals
a day and regular hours. When you miss a class, excused or unexcuse
d, you are missing something for which you pay not in money alone but
in time necessary to make up‘the information lost. Lastly, it may affect
your grade in that study, because no professor is willing to give as good
a mark to one who is not regular'in attendance.

The heights by students reached and kept

Were not attained by cutting class,

But made while their companions slept

Who had a struggle just to pass.

A NEW DISEASE COMING.

Another epidemic, more fatal to college grades and college success,
has reached Davidson today and may prove''very harmful. later in the
Spring. The most disastrous part about it is that it captures men with
strong constitutions as well as the weak ones. It is very dangerous.

The desire to be out in the open when the flowers begin to bloom
and the trees begin to bud and when nature puts on new colors and
new life, to ke out of the dark and gloomy study rooms into the luring
sunshine is almost irresistible. -It is like unto sitting on the front porch
in the moonlight, when another is there. ™~,

You remember Tennyson said, in, Locksley Hali: “In the Spring a
Young Man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” So you see we
are warning you ahead of the time of another danger. Fellows, beware
of Spring fever and its accompaniments !

Good Advice.

“Take plenty of exercise, cat plen-
ty of good, wholesome food, wear
proper, clothing, keep your feet’ dry
and you need not be afraid of catch-
ing influenza!’ Is not this quota-
tion familiar to everyone these
days? Common sense always pays:
in questions of sanitation, take the
doctor’s advice! It would be indeed
foolish to omit all precautions after
the spread of the local “infectious
cold” has been stopped and thus fall
an easy prey to more hostile germs
collected from all sections by the
fellows who have gone home.

But how many fellows really take
regular exercise? Even if you re-
spect the “integrity” of all your

bones and the wisdom of the doc-!

tor’s advice tuo much to help make
a record for your class.in football,
remember liis advice about .keeping
your feet warm and don’t get cold
feet on wlVexercise! Take a regular
hike around the track or a game on
the tennis court, both seasons will
soon be open.
and retiring to try a boxing bout!
The only prerequisite for a basket-
ball game is a pair of rtibber-soled
shoes. (Just remember that U. S.
As“hardboys” are neither rubber-
soled nor heeled). How about-it
“Brass.”

Sunday Athletics?

Say, fellows, of course the whole
student body was “sorry” there
were no religious meetings Sunday,
but how many agree that a little
football practice is a fit: suibstitu-
tion?

Of course every fellow has. his
own ideas about his duties and privi-
leges as a Christian. Although no
system of hypocrisy. is to be advo-
cated, it is for outside reasons that
this practice is to be most reason-
ably opposed. In America the ma-
jority cules. Approximately 99.9

Don’t be too madest |.

per cent of the fellows here are
embers of the Presbyterian
church. Furthermore, the Presby-
terian church endows. this institu-
tion and actually gives each fellow
over 50 per cent of the advantages
he gets here. It is needless to state
the principles for which both these
institutions have stood since their
founding until this day. Then do
you think any fellow on the hill
would willingly misrepresent that
“old Davidson spirit” as even ap-
pearing to encourage Sunday ath-
letics by indulging in them on the
campus! Surely not, if he thinks
what he is doing ! “CE. S.”

What Is the Difference?

This is one of those cases of six
of une and half a dozen of the other.
We were to have a basketball game
in the local gymn last. Tuesday
night, but our far-seeing executives
saw fit to have the Elon team re-
main from our floor in order that
our skirts might remain, unspotted
from the “flu” epidemic. But—did
we hear a warning against attending
chapel in a body the following morn-
ings or was there a ban put on an
hour's lecture to the battalion?

No !—this: was not deemed wise.
We ask you a fair-minded question :
Which would be the most harmful—
listening to a lecture or to stand in
a well ventilated gymnasium and
cheer your own Red and Black ma-
chine on to add more victories to our
credit ? : ;

It-~wvas suggested some time ago
that a ‘public bulletin board would
serve in the place of chapel and

A.G.Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts

would not this be.a good time to
give it an initial tryout.
But—what is the difference - be-
tween six of one and half a dozen
of the other?. .
E. Pluribus Unum.

Sunday Breakfast on Deck Again.

In The Davidsonian for January
29, 1920, Typo brought forward a
proposal: regarding Sunday bréak-
fast which [ am sure met the em-
phatic approval of the student body
as,a whole. No doubt the ladies
would be “more .than glad” to put
the cost of this meal into. the Sat-
urday supper or the Sunday dinner. -
It seems to me that the only thing
necessary to put this plan thru is
for the student body to have a meet-
ing and vote on it. Mr. President, it
is up to you to call this meeting and
it is up to us to abolish once and for
all this Sunday breakfast which

thenefits only the conscientious (?)

few and which is the cause of so
much worry and trouble to the
hoarding house keepers.

Triplex.

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.

_ Flowers for all occasions at pop-
ilar prices.

Orders. taken for delivery in anv
city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY

alk

ial

sett AER RAB.

ATE
[i ma l el _m i

club.

It’s as sweet and

a |

DM

= Se

tl

|

INE cases out of ten, the man
who oncé smokes a W DC Pipe Fj
becomes a life member of the W DC
He can’t help it, because a
WD C is certainly a man’s size smoke.

mellow as carefully

sclected French briar and expert sea-
soning can make it. Not only material

et]
iit i
te

ae

a

We. DEMUTH & CO.. New York

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

of the first water, but craftsmanship of
the highest order, and designs that are
most pleasing—all combine to make the
WDC Pipe a smoke of peace, content-
ment and satisfaction.
Any good dealer will confirm this.

A man’s smoke.

yt igflhen  SHHT

H
{!
