Speak
Up
Soph

THEDA

VI

aliantly
anquish
irginians

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.

No. 3

Brother Mark is Welcome
Week-End Visitor
on Hill

Anglican Monk Helps Students in
Addresses and Conferences

The Y. M. C. considers itself indeed
fortunate in having been able to secure
such a man as Brother Mark to be with
us for four days. Brother Mark, who.is
a student of the General Theological
Seminary of New York, is a member of
the Pastoral Order of the Holy Ghost,
and is attached to the Christ Church of
Chattanooga, Tenn. In order to become
a member of this order an oath of pov-
erty, chastity, and obedience must be
taken.

The wearing of a long gray robe,
which is required of all members of the
order to which he belongs, does not de-
tract in the least from his personality
or usefulness. His life, which seems to
be burning with true consecration and
love for Christ, furnishes an excellent
example of the power of a spirit-filled
life. His winning personality and his
loyal devotion to Christ make him a
powerful factor for good among all with
whom he comes in contact.

His text Sunday morning was taken
from Psalm 119:73, and the sermon was
powerful and appealing.

In addressing the Volunteer and Min-
isterial Bands the fact that unless we
are doing personal work here, where
circumstances are favorable, then we
cannot expect to make successful min-
isters or missionaries, was forcefully
brought out. We must make sure of
our calling through prayer to God.

The central theme of the address be-
fore the Y. M. C. A. was “full devotion
to Christ.” Religion was defined as “a
consuming devotion to the highest and
best we know.” As Christian workers
we cannot lead others to a higher plane
than we ourselves have reached. The
proof of our love for Christ is proven by
our actions in striving to win others.

In addition to hearing Brother Mark
speak, over fifty men have been bene-
fited by having personal interviews with
him.

We feel that his efforts at Davidson
have not been spent in vain, but that
we have been blessed by his being with
us. During his stay here he has proven
to be “the friend of every one of us,” as
Dwight Chalmers introduced him on
Sunday night.

D
WORK ON QUIPS AND CRANKS
BEGINS WITH PHOTO-TAKING

Work has started on the best annual

DR. BROWN, OF TRINITY, TO
LECTURE HERE ON*FOLKLORE

At 7:30 p. m., Monday, September 27th,
in Shearer Hall, Prof. Frank Brown,
Ph.D., head of the English Department
of Trinity College, will give a popular
lecture on North Carolina’ Folklore,
Folk-song, and Ballad. Mrs. H. N.,
Pharr, of Charlotte, who is regarded as
having One of the finest voices in the
Carolinas, will sing some of the songs.
Professor Brown was the founder ten
years ago of the North Carolina Folk-
lore Society, and has been its secretary-
treasurer from the beginning, as well
as chairman of the committee that ar,
ranges the programs of its annual met-
ings. Professor Brown spent large
part of the past: summer tramping
through a number of our western coun-
ties in search of new material, and was
rewarded by some rich “finds.”

Personally, Professor Brown
genial, cultured gentleman with a fine
sense of humor, and has had large ex-
perience with students, All members of
the and citizens of the com-
munity are cordially invited to attend
the lecture and give Professor Brown a
hearty weleome on his first visit to Da-
vidson,

a

1S ¢

college

The faculty committee on lectures and
public functions has also arranged for
an address by President Henry Louis

nith about*the middle of October, who

‘tell us of his experience, observa-
t + and impressions abroad this sum-
m where he was for nine days the
guest of the British government.

poe p UNDER Ere

Le Cercle Francais Hears

Address by Ex-President

Last Year’s First Honor Man Spends
Day on Campus Last Week

——

On Thursday afternoon of last week
C, K. Brown, who was president of Le
Cercle. Francais last year, visited his
alma mater while en route to the Uni-
versity of Virginia, and made an inter-
esting talk to members of the local chap-
ter, in Dr. Lingle’s class room. Profes-
sor Fleagle was present at special invi-
tation. Phases of French manners. and
customs as observed by the: speaker while
in France during the past summer were
interestingly presented. C. K, also gave
the members an insight into French uni-
versity methods and an account of his
studies and trip.

It is interesting to note that, while
studying at a government university in
Basancon, C. K. upheld his reputation

Scrubs Show Up Well in

Scrimmage with Varsity

First Team Wears Down Scrubs in

Second Half: Teams Look Good

The Davidson “Wildcats” played their
first game of the present season on last
Friday, The first string Varsity men
locked horns with the “All-American,”
formerly . playing, under the © title’
“Serubs,” and a right royal battle en-
sued,

During the first half these two teams
For the first
ballechanged hands
Near the end
of the first quarter the Varsity got the
ball on their own 45 vard line and start-
ed to drive down the field.
contributions were
who stepped off 10 end,
Bethea, who pushed his way
through tackle for 10 yards,

battled to a scoreless tie.
few minutes the
several times in mid-field.

The largest
by Schenck,
around

made
yards
and by

The second quarter opened with the
ballon the All-Americans’ five-yard line.
After two unsuccessful attempts, Bethea
carried the pigskin over only to be eall-
ed back because his team was off-side.
In three more tries the ball was again
carried to the three-yard line, where a
pass to Black was blocked by De Ar-
non. This gave the ball to the All-
Americans on their own 20-yard mark,
and neither goal line
threatened thereafter.

Was seriously
In the second half the first string men
awoke to the fact that it takes touch-
downs to win games. As a result, this
portion of play saw them step over their
opponents’ last white line three times.
The third quarter saw a new team on
the field. The third team, commonly
called the “Squirts,” were anxious to try
their hand with the Varsity. Twice the
oval came to rest behind the uprights
in this period. The first team accom-
plished this once assisted. greatly by the
breaks of the game, —-It-was made when
Long’s twisting spirial got away from
Smith and Lake flopped on it behind the
line. Marker number two was hung up
by Bethea on straight running plays.

The final qfarter saw the All-Amer-
icans back for another chance with many
new faces in their line-up, and in that
of the Varsity. In this period Hendrix
broke loose on a wide end run and was
never headed in his wild gallop until
the ball kissed the dirt under the goal
posts. His run was of about 35 yards
and was the longest of the day.

The afternoon’s play was marred by
the many fumbles. The Varsity looked
mighty sweet but there is still some
polishing up to be done before they will

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS OPEN
FOR SOUTHERN COLLEGE MEN

Rhodes Scholars will be appointed by
32 states, including Tennessee, Virginia,
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, and Mis-
sissippi, December 3d, to take up resi-
dence at Oxford University in October,
loz2, All applications, testimonials, ref-
erences, ete, must be in the hands
the respective state committees before
October 2oth. It is practically useless
for undergraduates to apply for appoint-
ment, Young alumni under 25 years of
age, who are doing graduate or profes-
sional study, or are cngaged in teaching
or are pursuing other intellectual pur-
suits, are the most likely candidates.
Judging from. past observation, we
should say that an athletic reeord and
gifts for social leadership, along with

of

scholastic and literary attainments, are
essential to appointment. ‘The seliolar-
ships pay 350 pounds sterling annually
and the appointment is for three years.
Minost any line of study may be pur-
sued with advantage.

Any alumni identified with any of the
above named states who wish to apply,
should communicate at once with Prof,
Thos, W. Lingle, who will aid¢them in
any possible way.

iD)

Among the alumni who were on the

Hill for the first few days of the term

were Jim Boulware, ‘21, Johnny Jame-
son, “20, 7D. Re Freeman, ‘21,0 Birehie
Romefelt, ‘21, and “Pee-Wee Rateh-

Hoetdl, ode,

Good Phos Anewngea
for Next Two Y
Meetings

Dr. Graham of Chapel Hill and Bell-
ingrath and Hamilton Coming

Dr. Frank Graham, of
of North Carolina, will
M. C. Avon the relation
student to his studies.
professor of history at
has had great experience
university. work. He is
also one of the prominent Y. M. C. A.
workers of the state and was conspic-
tous among the college professors at
Blue Ridge.

The following Sunday two old David-
son men, George Bellingrath and EK: H.
Hamilton, will give an illustrated lecture
on present-day conditions throughout
the world, The Des Moines delegates
will remember these slides as *those
shown on the opening night of the great
Volunteer Convention.

Next Sunday
the University
speak to the Y.
of the college
Dr. Graham is
Chapel Hill and
in college aid

Students and Townspeople
Enjoy Chautauqua
Program

Radcliffe Entertainers Bring Worth-
while Attractions Here

| Davidson students and townspeople
have again had the privilege of having
a chautauqua in theirs midst with its
program of helpful addresses and en-
joyable music. The Radelitfe entertain-
the first three days of the
week here and good programs were pre-
sented.

ers spent

Monday Afternoon.

The program Monday afternoon was
indicative of the superior class of en-
tertainment furnished the Radelitf
chautauqua.

The consisted of a varied
musical program rendered by the Cole-
man Coneert company,

by
prelude

This musical or-
ganization is composed of three artists,
Mr. Coleman, director, flutist, and cor-
netist; Miss ‘Vera Clayton, soloist; aud
Miss Alexa Whitmire, and
piinist. The numbers were
well received by the audience, consist-

violinist
‘rendered

ing of classical, popular, and patriotic
selections.

The feature of the program was the
lecture by Dr. J. William’ ‘Terry, well
known platform speaker. Te chose as
his subject “The Value of An Individual.”

) The address foreefully outlined the
greatness of man as compared with the
Massive mountains, the boundless sea,
and other wondrous creations of the

Master Hand.
lininded

Dr. Terry constantly re-

his hearers of man's
from the Creator and: issued a
strong appeal for whole hearted sery-
jice to community, state, nation, self, and
God.

endow-
ments

L

| The program Monday evening was ex-
jeremely interesting and was attended
jby a large and enthusiastic crowd.

| The speaker of the evening was Dr. I,
| William Terry who delivered a very in-
structive and entertaining lecture on
}“Our Political Ideal.” In this lecture he
} brought forth as our political ideal the
| superiority of the individual to any gov-
jernmental institution, . and that the
}greatest political enemy of the Amer-
ican’ government the public indif-
| fe rence to it. The citizens of our coun-
jtry must love democracy or the long
| sought for political ideal will never be

reached.

1s

The feature of the evening’s program
|was the musical numbers presented by
j}the Coleman Concert Company.
| “Will ’o-the-Wisp” and a_ selection
jfrom the light opera “Katinka” were
| beautifully rendered by Miss Clayton,

P : “ for scholarship which he established at] be ready to take on Virginia. sellingrath was : Airy ents
A tee aes ipecee a Davidson, for at the end of a short six| In the Varsity backfield Bethea and] one of our star ANAL and founder of eprtralto, eM a ate Hae rie tea
ish” looking fellows headed toward No. weeks of study, he was presented with Seti gained the most tertitory, while Be Hue cane ali Pee thy Three ipa fil = ee “hea
9 Georgia, with freshly washed collars | 4 diploma for work which regularly re- MeAlster showed special aptitude in ee fee babies MEAL “Wei the first ait Ha Ne ne
and: newly ‘starched faces, They weret duires three whole months, - recovering fumbles. Long, when called penadlia ik author of our college song Fe ae a eee a g pas oe
all making the first step toward gracing D upon, sent his punts spiraling far down| O Davidson. ite Mr St PRR EER "sit ne
the 1922 issue of Quips and Cranks with the field, LaFar and Davis, eyre the D Sea Satay ee eee
their smiling countenances. Si ma U silon Pla f packbone: ot the line, = D ] ti f D. id eet eae ee ngs ©)
Mr. May, of the White Studios, of New § P pe: OF) For the All-Americans, Mallory did] Melegation trom Vavidson
York, is here making the pictures, and Y f G A ty the stellar work in the line, while hon- Did W I] S ree ee ery pra art
judging from his excellent work of last | ear 0 reat ctivi ors were about evenly divided among I e. at ummer a CALENDAR 2 :
year, everyone will be given justice—| their backs, Moore, Brown, Ervin and Camp * 4 Hi
and in many cases more than justice. |To Promote Circulating Library and DeArmon Cra wigtd WES TU MORE COUs * Thursday—7 :30 p. m.: Phi Society *
Editor Shaw and Manager Knox are Novel by Members sistent ground gainer for the Squirts, As riiraday is an rH IE See ee
making an early start on the Annual) while McLaurin backed up the line like| More Than Forty Men Take the Mili- 7 Bede so Ses ee eta re
this year, and as an-early start means | The members of the Sigma Upsilon Seer ete: D tary Training at Camp Knox ¥ Saturday—3 130 a ae Wildcats ry *
= ae sn ciek here’s hoping we geil be oa) TENGEN, wei : Es last DHeMh chonshi@RiceuamUninnkmieos eT ; : Univ. of Virginia, Charlottesville. *
> px | ay nig t in the . A. hall. They ane logical Seminary, spent Sunday with Dr. Ready on the firing line! L-o-a-d!}* Saturday—7:30 p. m.: Movie: “The *
D | making extensive plans for the coming SetaFS MRE NAn GE Remember that, ye Camp Knox men?|* Woman That God Changed.” id
Rey. R. W. Miles, ’11, better known year. They are going to get a number Be : Also, “Mr. Knight will take the prone|* Sunday—to a.‘m.: Volunteer Band. *
as “Bob,” was very. successful as as-| of new books, just published, and form ——| position.” Every one of us after wel* Sunday—1 :30 p. m.: Ministerial zs
sistant pastor. of First Presbyterian a circulating library among the mem- by the local chapter in the next few} had washed’ the dust from behind our|* Band. *
Church of Greensboro, N. C., during the| bers. The study for the coming year] weeks. As they did last year, the mem-}ears, found that we had)a mighty good|* Sunday—6:15 p.m.: “Y” Meeting. %
summer and now is pastor of the Pres- | will be chiefly on the modern novel. At|bers are going to write a continued] time, despite the hard work. We did|* Monday—7:30 p. m.: Address by *
byterian Church of Auburn, Ala. We!the next two meetings, however, there} novel, each member writing one chapter.| work hard, and there were very few]* Professor Frank Brown, of Trinity, *
hope for Mr. Miles the same success | will be a discussion of Dante and his] As is generally the case, a large amount “gold-brickers,” but every one ate al* Shearer Hall. ise
with the men of A. P. I. as he had with! works. A number of Sigma Upsilon men| if ice cream and cake brought the mect- mighty hearty meal when they came in|* Wednesday—o p. m.: Bible Classes. *
the Davidson men. from other colleges will be entertained ing to a climax and close. (Continued on page 4) ee eee er er eee ee DEEL Tess J
eo : :
P GIVE THE BUNCH A GREAT SEND-OFF! rf
