Speaking of Sports

Exit Basketball.

The 1921 basketball season is history
now. The last games of the indoor
pastime have been played and eyes are
now being turned to baseball.
Wildcatse———
Dayidson.------- 509 Opponents---.459
Wildeate——

A few interesting facts on the season:
The largest score rolled up on the Wild-
cats was at Virginia. The University
lads romped off with a 47 to 23 victory.

Davidson's highest game score was
against the Charlotte “Y,” when the
Trianglers were defeated by a 55 to 11
count.

Our game average was 32 points,
against an average of 28 for our op-
ponents.

Bill Roberts, crack forward, scored
over half as many points as our op-
ponents. He wound up the season with
241 to his credit.
Wildcats

State Championship.

University of North Carolina.

Trinity College,

Davidson College.

Elon College.

Wake Forest, Guilford and N. C. State
bunched for fifth place.

‘Wildcatsp-———

This Year's Basketball “D” Men.
G. W. Miley, manager.

L. B. Schenck, captain and guard.
W. W. Roberts, forward

John Schenck, forward.

B. W. Romefelt, center.

C. M. Davis, center and guard.
C. R. Crawford, guard
‘Wildcate———

These days find the diamond down at
Sprunt Field as lively as an animated
ant-hill, The tossers of the old apple
are limbering up in grand shape and are
gradually working out those kinks de-
veloped during the fall and winter.
‘Wildcate———.

Of course predictions are not in or-
der yet but the seven veterans from last
year’s team are having their hands full
to hold on to their positions. The new
material is showing up to a big advant-
age.

‘Wildcate——_.

Coach Hengeveld has the following in-
fielders hopping around the hassocks:
Cassell, last year’s third .baseman;
Ratchford, veteran second sacker; Neal,
Barnette, Erwin, M., Hodgins, Richards,
and Brown. All are showing flashes of
form and a good infield is assured.
Wildcats .

The battery is well supplied and is the
strongest department on the squad. Sim
Wrenn and Cop Johnson are taking care
of the receiving end, while Captain Bill
Miley, Buck Currie and Shepard are go-
ing true to form in the box.

Wildcats .

With only Crawford, of last season, in
the outfield, this is the place where
Dutch’s attention is directed. Shepard
will probably alternate in the outfield
when not twirling, as last year. Other
aspirants include Miley, G., Brown, Free-
man, and Erwin, L.
‘Wildcats

On the cinder path, things are moving
right along, and “Wooley” has his men
swinging into mid-season gait in great
style. The coming week will find these

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 192

BASKETBALL TEAM.

(Continued from page 1)

cat” spirit was instilled into the team
and at the beginning of the second half
showed flashes of their regular
form and tied the score in short order.
it was either
game, first one scoring and then the
By close guarding the Wofford
team was prevented from scoring in the
last few minutes and Davidson wound
up the collegiate season with a victory.

Hecklin and Lindsey did the best work
for Wofford each collecting 14 points.
Hecklin was especially conspicious for
his floor work; one time dribbling near-
ly the full length of the floor and caging
All of the Presbyterian’s op-
ponents were proficient in throwing the
bali through the ring from near the
center of the floor, only a few of their
points being made by short shots.

Robérts and Crawford were the main-
stays of the offensive, each ranging the
floor and shooting many difficult shots.
Crawford made several pretty goals dur-
ing the last half that helped materially
in the total score.

CHARLOTTE HIGH SCHOOL
WINS FROM BELMONT
IN SLOW CONTEST

Elimination Game for State Cham-
pionship Played on Davidson
urt.

36-17 in favor of Charlotte. That was
the answer to the question as fo which
had the best quintet, Belmont or Char-
lotte. Both squads arrived on the “Hill”
early Friday afternoon accompanied by
hordes of rooters, male and female, the
element of “fire” seemingly in the ma-
jority. And who says all the good look-
ing girls come from California? It’s a
sure bet he wasn’t at the game Friday.

P. C. Henderson announced before the
game that it was a sure victory for Char-
lotte, and for once “P. C.” was right.
From the initial tossup the conflict was
all in favor of the lads from the “Queen
City ;” McMillan, who was the star of
the opening period, shooting four goals
in rapid succession.
not Charlotte’s without a fight though,
for “Prep” Hall’s proteges had lots of
“pep” and did not die without a struggle.
The first half ended 20-9 in favor of the
five from the “Center of the Carolinas.”

The second stanza was a walkaway
for Charlotte except for a few minutes
when Belmont displayed a bit of class.

The Charlotte team made several sub-
stitutions in this half. The final score

The victory was

Schenck, J. (0) Heckllin (14)

Davis (8) wecncnnnnneesenenenee Alverson

. sch » Ly wna ene illingh 6
The game, in itself rather rough and Schenck, L ’ Dillingham (6)

slow, was enlivened throughout by the
rooting from the sidelines. The line-up:
Charlotte (36)

Crawford (11)

Belmont (17)

Referee: Faul, Charlotte Y. M. C. A.
Growner (11)

Winston “Y” Game.

The Davidson Varsity five successfully
completed their basketball season last
Friday night by defeating the fast Win-
ston “Y” team by a score of 34 to 25 on
the collegians court.

The Wildcats
when Crawford turned the ball loose for
two clean shots and succeeded in net-
ting four points before the “Y” bunch
could get started.

The Twin City basketers soon over-
came this lead by good passing and ac-
curate shots and the remainder of the
first period proved to be a healthy
tussle for the lead, neither side being
able to better the other by very many

McMillan (16)

Substitutions : Eddy (2) for Milstead ;
Carmichael for Howell; Stowe for El-
lingham. Referee: Marsh.

WILDKITTENS WIN
EASY VICTORY FROM
MOORESVILLE HIGH

The Wildkittens added another vic-
tory to their growing string last week
when they romped over Mooresville Hi
to the merry tune of 65-20. The game
was played on Mooresville’s floor and it
was the first defeat they have suffered
there this year. The Kittens had things
their own way from the beginning and
the result of the contest was never in

The first half was marked by good
team work by both clubs and it was only
strong offensive
Davidson succeeded .in teading at the
end of this period by a score of 16-14.

The Red and Black machine came back
strong in the second half and by quick
passing and fast team work succeeded
in overcoming their opponents defensive
work and placed another
their credit by a final score of 34-25.

The final outcome of the game was
not sure until the last whistle, both
showing speed and good head
work throughout the game.

Crawford was the mainstay of the
Wildcats, covering the floor with good
form and shooting tong shots with great

The Kittens were used to romping
around a large floor and during the first
half Ormond and McDonald couldn't get
away from their guards. Mauze was the
star point getter for the Presbyterians
in this half, collecting 16 out of their 24
points. In the second half the forwards
broke away and looped the ball through
the basket at will.

Ormond ran wild in the second half
and showed the best form of the season.
In this half he succeeded in gathering
Mauze and McDonald were
right behind him with 18 and 16 points
respectively. Price and King kept the
Mooresville score down.

The playing of Schenck at guard and
Davis at center is also worthy of note.
For the “Trianglars” Martin played a
good game in netting 11 points on the
offensive and on the defensive in inter-

DAVIDSON COMES THIRD. |THE PARABLE OF THE SHEEP.

(Continued from page 1)
while on the Virginia trip, greatly handi-
capped Romeo, but he put up a game
fight regardless.
Nappy Davis, the first freshman to

make his letter in years, donated 24

points. Nappy alternated at guard and
center and showed up to a big advantage
in both positions.

Louis Schenck, held down the other
guard position. Louis continued to
play his same old airtight defensive
game and both as a player and. captain,
used good common judgment in hand-
ling the team.

Total summary of points scored:

Roberts, forward, 241.

J. Schenck, forward, 104.

Crawford, guard, 80.

Romefelt, center, 50.

Davis, center, 24.

Ormand, sub, 4.

Shepherd, sub, 4.

McConnell, sub, 2.

Total, 509.

The race for state championship
honors in basketball among the seven
colleges this year, has proven very close
and interesting. The two chief contend-
ers have been the University and Trinity.
After eliminating the other five colleges
by undisputable victories, these two
locked horns twice, each winning one
game. The general sentiment throws
the weight on the side of the University,
and these two comparative scores prob-
ably indicate their superiority:

University 23, Trinity 2s.

University 41, Trinity 19.

Third place goes to Davidson, undis-
puted by reason of their advantage over
Elon of 2 points in two games; over
Guilford of 35 points in two games; over
N. C. State of 21 points in two games;
and over Wake Forest, altho this team
was not played, by reason of Elon’s
clearly outranking Wake Forest.

Fourth place probably falls to Elon,
who in two games with Wake Forest,
have a two point advantage; over Guil-
ford by a 33 to 14 victory and over N. C.
State by a 20 to 12 victory.

The other three teams seem closely
bunched, with the odds favoring Wake
Forest who decisively defeated Guilford
by a 41 to 14 count, and who split two
games with N. C. State, each contest
ending in a 20 to 10 score. N. C. State.
by reason of these two last mentioned
scores cannot be eliminated, and seems
to share honors with Wake Forest. But
Guilford even tho defeated by Wake
Forest in a 41 to 14 contest, clearly out-
ranked N. C. State by reason of two
victories over the Technicians. So there,
you are—figure if out to your best ad-
vantage.

—_—_$__)D—__

The Honor System continues to be
the subject of discussion in American
colleges. It has recently been adopted
in the Military Department of Colorado
Agricultural College by the students of
Qhio State University, Gustavus-Adol-
phus College, Minnesota, and Valparaiso
University, Indiania. Other student
bodies having the same under considera-
tion are Bethany College, West Virginia,
Coe College, Iowa, University of Mich-
igan and Oklahoma Agricultural and
Mechanical College.

Misses ‘Mary and Lizzie Young have

A certain shepherd had seventy sheep.
And he loved them well, and cared for
them. And their every want was his
constamt care.

Now five were wise, and five were
foolish, and they which were neither
were normal sheep.

And the foolish said unto their breth-
ren, He whom thou callest shepherd, the
same is unjust. For when we might
feed where we would, he curbeth us:
yea, he curbeth our desire. The pasture
where he maketh us feed is old; and the
grass is no longer sweet. Would that.
we might be rid of this hard master!

Now, by chance, the fold where tne
sheep were was nigh unto the edge of
a precipice. And the precipice was an
hundred cubits high. And below was
the sea. And the color of the sea’ was
like unto that of tender grass in the
spring-time.

Now when the time of shearing was
come, behold, the shepherd rose up
early in the morning. And when he had
eaten and drunk, he took his shears in
his hand, and came nigh unto the fold
where his sheep were.

And the sheep lifted up their eyes and
beheld the shepherd while he was yet
a great way off.

Then the foolish said unto them that
were with them, Lo! here cometh that
one to torment us. Verily he will kill
our joy. See ye thru this chink in the
wall how fresh is the grass below.
Haste! Let us betake ourselves thither
while he is yet afar off.

And when they had said this, the
foolish ones girt their loins, and did leap
the wall which was about the fold.

Then when they which were wise did
see these things, they lifted their voices,
saying, "Tis not good that we shonld do
this thing. For the shepherd cometh
not to torment us, but to do us good.
And yon grass is not what it seems. But
we are sheep, and must walk as our
fathers have walked before us. .

And, girding themselves, they leapt
the wall. And the fish of the sea did
make merry with their flesh, and sport
with their carcasses.

Then, when the shepherd was come, he
diligently searched for his flock.
But when he found it not, he sent out
absence cards. —CYCLOPS.
Dp——___

“Why do you turn out for every road
hog that comes along?” said the missus,
rather crossly. “The right of way is
ours, isn’t it?”

“Oh, undoubtedly !” answered he, calm-
ly. “As for our turning out, the reason
is plainly suggested in this epitaph which
appeared in a newspaper recently:
“Here lies the body of William Jay
Who died maintaining his right of way;
He was right, dead right, as he sped

along,
But he’s just as dead as if he’d been
wrong.”—Boston Transcript.

Foretaste.

“Yes, my doctor has put me on a diet.
It’s just an hour until my dinner time
and I’m as hungry as a wolf.”

“How long have you been on a diet?”

“I start with my next meal."—Birming-’
ham Age-Herald.

D—____
The latest on C. J. is that while up

men entering into the heavy grind.

D——_____ fering with the Wildcats passing. returned home after a most delightful|with an airman he tried to Jew him
“SNUB NOT.” “SAY IT WITH FLOWERS.” Clay at forward scored eight points | Visit to' New Orleans. down.
* Jand Alten played a fast game at center. sg eee SSeS SEES REESE EERE S SSS SSES Soe e ea esas esere eee
If you wish to be thoroughly hated, if| If you consider her a wise girl, say it] Summary:

you wish to be remembered for evil, if | with sage. Davidson (34) Winston “Y” (25)
you wish to be a social blight, if you] If you think her cold, say it with|Roberts (12) ---.---.....__. Clay (8) oves ats
wish to drive from you all confidence, all sme drops and freesias. L. F.
affection, all sympathy, if you wish to you desire to marry her, say it with | Schenck, J. (2).-----.---. _-- . :
lose the key to the ‘hearts of others, |@ Poppy. viens says r@ . Terrell (2) Anything you want in baseball gloves and bets. Our gloves run from
then cultivate the art of snubbing. If| If you know she has a sweet tooth, |Davis (8) ----.----------....-. Allen (4) $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to $3.50 each. Give us

your order.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.

you wish to get confidence and to give |8ay it with candytuft.
confidence, if you desire that some few| If she impresses you as a sad girl, say | Schenck, L, -...__-... Martin (11)

should affectionately remember you |it with rue. LG
‘when you are gone, if you wish to be de-] If she is of a happy,joyous nature, say {Crawford (12) -....-.---.----.-_- Jones EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
‘livered from the curse of a solitary ex-|it with gladioli, RG.

\istence—Snub not.—Claudius Clear, in| If she seems a prunes-and-prisms sort} No substitutions. Referee: Chalmers
ithe British Weekly. of girl, say it with primula. (Davidson.)

5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon) Phone 8248

boo
