THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

HERE AND THRERE
AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Dr. W. R. Withers, '83, professor of
chemistry at State College, is president
of the department of higher education
of the State Teachers’ Assembly. He is
algo a member of the legislative commit-
tee of that body.

Dr. Wm. A. Price, ‘09, is in Mexico
doing: geological work, for a South
American Corporation. He is so far in
the interior that mail is received only by
special messenger.

The friends of Rev. Don. W. Richard-
son, ‘ot, of China, will sympathize with
him in the death of his only son. The
little boy suffered a slight accident
while riding a bicycle; blood poisoning
developing three weeks later. !

W. H. Harrell, '20, attender the Stu- |
dent Volunteer Conference at Durham.
He is now teaching school in Chincapin,
N.C.

F. L. Knight, ex-’19, was elected vice- |
president of the Student Volunteer |
Union of Virginia for the next year. The;
conference this year was held at Salem,!
Virginia, on February 18th-2oth inclusive.
O. C. Williamson, ‘18, is the retiring vice-:
president. Knight is now taking his
medical work at University of Virginia
and his local volunteer band has ex-
tended the invitation to the union to
meet at the university next year.

.

L. H.. Patterson, ex-'18, is now work-
ing for the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond. He travels for this banking
institution and has his headquarters in |
the Capital City.

F. E. Fowlkes, ex-'18, is now head of
the science department of the John
Marshall High School, in Richmond,
which is one of the largest in the south.
He has prepared laboratory manuals for
the use of his classes. In addition to
this he has been highly honored by mem-
bers of his profession in that he is vice-
president of the State ScienceDepart-
ment, whose aim is the betterment and
spread of the teaching of science in the
high schools and colleges thréughout
the state of Virginia. Dr. Loving, of
Richmond University is president. Aliso,
Fowlkes is president of the Secondary
‘Teachers Association —the membership
of which is composed of all the high
school teachers of the city.

D—_—__———_-
ORATORY OF NON-SOCIETY
MEN CONGRESSIONAL IN
ELOQUENCE.

What’s that? Oh, no, they haven't
turned Shearer chapel into Congres-
sional Hall—that is only some of those
poor Juniors getting over their agony.
And many and varied were the ways in
which they got over it.

Knox orated so strongly on the im-
portance of the “motor truck” that ev-
ery one present decided to buy one and
go into Cornelson’s “Diversified Agri-
culture,” in Dogget’s “Model Town,” way

back in the “Hidden Territory” of Tufts,

where Wright's “Negro Problem” didn’t
figure on account of Wyman’s “Purifica-
tion of Water.”

About this time, however, everyone
found out that Johnston’s “Education”
applied to the “Mountaineer,” of Grove’s
would give them Holmes’ “Caste,” and
thus enable them to establish a “Jeffer-
sonian Democracy” as advocated by La
Far—bringing about a greater “Immigra-
tion” than that told of by Bethea for
Bailey’s “Business Possibilities for 1g21"
sure looked good.

Horton then answered Doubles
“Why?” by saying that the “Modern
Dance” caused us to “Prepare for the
Crisis” mentioned by Clyburn in order
that we might not be Booth’s “People
without a nation.”

John Curry was sorry he asked “What
Next?” for no sooner had he finished
than Sam Story jumped up and yelled
“The Baseball Scandal,” and proceeded
to denounce it in such fiery eloquence
that the entire audience (5 people), de-
cided that they would never again match
each other for the nickel to put in
church for fear that Sam would catch
them and make their sin his subject for
another flow of silver tongued oratory.

——_——___)-—_—______

George N. Neal spent the week-end

at Steele Creek with his parents.

Alumni News

times too feeble to engage in regular
work. .

In 1880 he married Miss Mary E. Craig,
of Selma, Ala. From this union came
six children who have rendered useful
service throughout that state. In his
social relations he was genial and com-
panionable, entering with hearty sym-
pathy into the joys and sorrows of
Served Many Years at Professor at others and ready to greet with a bright

Tuskegee Institute. smile and kindly word everyone he met.
As a preacher he was clear, logical,
forcible and carnest. i

REV. R. B. McALPINE, *70,
DIES AT AGE OF 73 YEARS

The Christian Observer recently an- —___D—___- ‘ Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N.C
nounced the death of Rev. R. B. Mc- ; ne 1 IN. U.
\Alpine, '70, who was born in Coosa VISITORS ON THE HILL. |
county, Ala. January 25, 1848. In his

Mrs. Robert N. Page, of Southern

early years. his parents moved to Arkan-
sas, where he received his early training.
At the age of 17 he entered Davidson
College for the purpose of studying law.
While he was at Davidson, however, he| Miss Lucy Bacon of Boston has been/
began to feel it his duty to enter the] visiting Mrs. Martin since Monday. ,
ministry so after completing his course !
here he went to Columbia Seminary. He Rey. S. M. Erickson, of Tokamatsu
remained there from 1871 to 1873. After Japan, spent a few days with Rev. J W.
his seminary work he took special jfoore last week. = 7
courses’ at University of Virginia and '
Princeton Seminary. Messrs. Frank, Dave, and Walter Hall
Rev. McAlpine was ordained in Ala- were on the hill for a few hours Friday'
bama in 1877 and held the pastorate at night. ‘
Uniontown and Dayton until 1879. He |
then accepted a call to Goldsboro, N. C., George Crouch, ‘18, was a visitor on

where he remained for three years, go- the hill the past week. | Ww
ing Trom there to Columbus, Miss., here Courtesy and

wheré he preached five years. While he Randolph Scott and Vaughn Hawkins | Service is the motto
was there the church membership was of Charlotte, were on the hill for the
doubled and a handsome new building game Friday night.

erected. He went from Mississippi to| .
Alabama where he held a position in! Miss Whitely of Greensboro, was a
a Tuscaloosa Institution, training. ne- visitor last Saturday night.

gro men to preach.the Gospel. At this
time his health gave away and he. was | Misses Victor, Cuthberson, Anderson,
forced to take a long rest. He was in and Carrie Spring, of Charlotte were
declining health a number of years; at here to sce the game last Friday.

New Central
Hotel

Pines made a short visit to the Misses«
Shaw a few days ago.

In the center of the the-
atre and shopping
district

Thoroughly modern and
up-to-date

Make your headquarters
with us when in
Charlotte

Frank Gregson, Mgr.

fl Il, |

ae

CoN
XN

{th

Check up all that
Camels offer you!

NY one of Camels many points of absolute superiority
makes them a delight to the most fastidious ciga-
rette smoker! But, consider all that Camels pass you:—

Unequalled quality——the wonderful Camel blend of
choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos—a flavor as
distinctive and refreshing as it is appetizing — smooth
mellow mildness never before attained in a cigarette—
freedom from any unpleasant cigaretty odor!

And, when you compare Camels with any cigarette in
the world at any price, you will note that Camels never
tire your taste, no matter how liberally you smoke!,

Say it with Flowers |

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS |

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS
DELIVERED

Have that

OLD SUIT
or HAT

CLEANED
or DYED

| They will look

new

The Ben Vonde Co.

The best Dyers in the
South

Agency At the Powerhouse

Cluete Peabody & Ca, Inc..Troy, NY.

Camele are eold
everywhere in scien-
tiftoally esaled pack-
ages of 20 cigaretice
for 20 cents.

R. J. REYNOLDS
TOBACCO Co,
Winston-Salem, N.C,
