With the exit of the football season, all
attention is now being turned to bas-
ketball. Gymnasiums all over the South
are the scenes of heated action in this
branch of athletics. College and Y. M.
C. A, teams are being rounded into shape
and indeed not a few have already play-
ed several games.

—D—-

At Davidson things have taken on a
definite form and with the Varsity squad
picked, there is quite a fight being waged
for berths on the team.

—D—.

Coach Hengeveld, former star basket
tosser of three years ago, as well as
twirler on the baseball team, has the
squad in hand and is fast rounding out a
team which should be one of the best in
years. “Coach” has a varied selection of
plays and is drilling the men for two
and a half hours every night, in the finer
points of the game. Besides Coach Grey
there is also one D. M. Chalmers, last
year’s captain and crack guard, who is
helping to train especially the guards.

—_D—.

The first game comes next Tuesday
with the Charlotte “Y” in the Charlotte
Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. A large dele-
gation from the student body will go
down with the team, and a hot fight is
jooked forward to, this being the open-
ing game for the Wildcats.

—D——

Just in this connection, we might men-
tion the fact that the Queen City “y”
bowed in defeat last week to the Win-
ston-Salem “Y” by the close score of 32
to 26. The Twin City has a scrapping
aggregation composed of some of the
most famous Southern collegiate stars.

3 ee
Mercer trimmed the quint from Geor-

gia Tech by the narrow margin of one h

point, winning in a 20 to 19 contest.
—D—_

Trinity, 40; Un. of S. C.,, 12.

U.N. C.,, 34; Un. of S.C, 15.

N. C. State, 25; Un. of S. S., 24.

Seems as if the Gamecocks hit a bad
beginning, on their invasion of the Tar
Heel State. Their opponents ran up a
total of 99 points against 51 for the Pal-
metto lads.

. —D—

The Clemson Tigers routed Wofford
37 to 24. Looks as if the Cadets have
another well oiled machine.

—D-—

Georgia took the measure of Furman
in a regular walk-away. The lads from
the Cracker State waded through the
Purple Hurricane’s defense, rolling up
69 points to their opponents’ 25.

—p—-_-

From down in Alligator land comes
“the news that one of our enemies, the
U. of Florida, was downed in a 36 to 18
contest by Stetson University.

Games This Week.

Saturday, 22nd—N. C. State vs. Trinity
at Durham.”

Tuesday, 25th—Davidson vs. Charlotte
“y” at Charlotte.

Wednesday, 26th—Un. of N. C. vs.
Trinity at Durham.

Thursday, 27th—N. C. State vs. Guil-
ford at Guilford.

‘We Want 300 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

CLASS FOOTBALL
BEGINS NEXT WEEK

Large Number of Men Trying for

, Positions on Various Teams.

Much interest is being developed on
-the Hill in the near approaching class
football games. These games will likely
‘Hegin within the next week and already
|a large number of men are out to defend
ithe honor of their various classes on
the gridiron.

A great deal of enthusiasm has been
hown in elections recently held and the
ollowing men have been selected to
ead their feams:

Senior: Carter, captain and manager.

Junior: McFadden, manager; Sum-
mers, captain.

Sophomore: S. M. Davis, manager;
Sorrells, captain.

Freshman: LaGare, manager; Fields,
captain.

Some of the class teams are handi-
capped Pecause of the rule making “D”
and “D. C.” men ineligible. However,
several men who have received Varsity
practice are showing up in fine shape. as
well as some “dark horses” who have
made their presence felt in practices.

As yet the Seniors have been unable
to hold a practice, but with the opening
up of the weather they promise a strong
comeback.

The Juniors are out in full force and
are whipping themselves into shape to
give the others a close run for honors.
Those who have reported for practice
and are showing up well are: L. Dick,
L. Erwin, Captain Summers, McLaugh-
lin, R. Knight, J. Knight, Black, Moore,
Harris, Story, Roddy, Bitzer, Sprunt, and
Dunlap.

The Sophs, true to their name, are out
for blood and are hard at work to make
speed overcome their lack of weight.
Adams, Captain  Sorrells, Dantzler,
Mauze, McCuen, Roberts, Lewis, Tucker,
Warren, Moore, Elliott, Allen, Baldwin,
and Wiley.

The Fresh have an unusually heavy
bunch and have a fine chance of winning
out, according to rumor. Those who are
out practicing are: Stockard, Hunter,
Oliver, Overton, Captain Fields, LaGare,
manager; Briggs, Morrow, Brown, Cox,
Clark, Booth, Carruthers, Chipman, De
Lorme, Fenton, Fleming, McCrary, Mc-
Junkin, McLain, Yonan, and Young.

We Want 0 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

NEW INSTRUCTORS ADDED
TO R. O. T. C. PERSONNEL

Sergeant Young, of the Fifth Division,
as arrived to assist in the R. O. T. C.
work. He will assist Mr. Ryan in drill-
ing the freshmen, as well as keep up the
rifle range and assist in the machine gun
instruction. Sergeant Young is a vet-
eran in the army, having had 14 years’
service, part of which has been in the
Philippines and China. He served 18
months in France and went through
most of the major operations without a
scratch, His native state is Kentucky,
the land of the blue grass.

Staff Sergeant McClellan, of the Six-
teenth Machine Gun Battalion of the
Sixth Division, at Camp Grant, II1, will
report this week for duty. He is said to
be a wizard at handling a machine gun.
He will act as supply sergeant and also
will have charge of the machine gun in-
struction.

Lieut. Murray H. Ellis, from the
Twelfth Calvary, at De! Rio, Tex., will
arrive this week. He will have charge of
the theoretical instruction of the fresh-
men.

The office hours for students will be
from 3 to § daily, except on Saturday, on
which day it will be from 11 to 12.

We Want 80 Students Next Yeer. Begin Now.

COACH GREY ENTERTAINS
FOOTBALL TEAM
AND MANAGERS AT BANQUET

On last Tuesday evening at 6:30 Coach
and Mrs. Hugh Grey entertained the
men who made their “D” in football this
year, at a banquet. It was a function
that will long be remembered by the
“Wearers of the D,” for according to
them they had turkey, more turkey, and
then to cap the climax of the feast, a lit-
tle more turkey. Aside from the turkey
part of the dinner there were cight other
courses, which received their full share
of attention.

Those enjoying the repast beside the
“PD” men were Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr.
H, B. Arbuckle, and “Buck” Curry.

After the banquet a general good time
and smoker was enjoyed and the guests
departed pronouncing it the best time
they had had since Pocahontas was a
papoose.

The only disappointment of the even-

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

ing was to “Doc” LaFar, who was not
allowed to deliver the speech which he
had so carefully prepared.

We Want S00 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

D. R. LAFAR ELECTED
CAPT. OF FOOTBALL TEAM

Romefelt Resigned on Account of
Probable Withdrawal From
College.

At a meeting of the 1920 football “D”
men, B. W. Romefelt, captain-elect of
the 1921 team, asked that another cap-
tain be elected in his place because of
the uncertainty of his return next year.
Asquiescing to his request, the team
elected D. R. LaFar, “Romeo's running
mate” at guard, to lead the team in next
year’s battles.

The whole school is sorry that Romeo
feels it necessary to decline the honor
offered him by the team but more sorry
to think that there is an uncertainty
about his returning next fall. If for-
tune does decree that he shall not return
to his alma mater, it will indeed be a
hard matter to find a man who could
fil! that position in the line which he has

i played so admirably.

Romeo's side-partner at guard, “Doc”
LaFar, is a player well fitted to take his
place. For two years “Doc” has filled
his position at guard with an ability
which none dispute. His strength and
headwork presage the taking of many
a scalp by Davidson's sturdy warriors in
the ensuing season.

We Want 80 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

TOWN HAPPENINGS.

Misses Mary O. Graham and M. V.
Davis, of Peace Institute, spent the
Christmas holidays with Professor and
Mrs. Currie.

Mrs. J. P. Paisley gave a very delight-
ful neighborhood party during the holi-
days.

Professor and Mrs. Currie gave a New
Years party to Miss Davis and Hugh
Grey.

Jack Black and his bride spent Christ-
mas holidays with his mother in Da-
vidson.

Mr. J. E. Johnston and Mrs. Fred
Hays have been spending the holidays
with their mother, Mrs. Lola Johnston.

The Sunday School Christmas tree on
Christmas eve was attended by a large
crowd. Everyone was happy and enjoy-
ed themselves to the fullest extent.

George and Charles Robson spent the
Christmas holidays with their mother.

Misses Elizabeth and Gordon Basker-
ville spent the holidays with Mrs. Rob-
son.

JANUARY 21, 1921.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,.

LIFE INSURANCE-
A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School
for Agents end multiple line of insurance provides the
equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship
Our Motto: “The largest service to the 'argest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY

HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N.C, CAPITAL--ONE MILLION DOLLARS
OOSSSOSESOSSESSDOSOS CO ORCOSSSOSHORDO OO ODOROS OEE CSCODOCCOORSHCERSORCONOOSOSeCCCCeS

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE :

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank .
+ Of Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President A. T. SUMMEY,
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President iw. STEWART tient Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cesbier

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER A $1,000,000.00

.
eeoccessoccconscoocooosesoocoeoosoeoSoooesooeecosoEoooooseseeoncooeoonooeooeesoeee:

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter gar-
ments more skilfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Socle-
ty Brand Clothes, Debbs and Dunlap Nats; French, Shriner and
Uraer Shoes; Manhatten Shirts; Mark Cross Cleves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the
duced by the Greatest Artists

‘Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instrument,
Music and Everything in Music » Sheet

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

world pro-

