6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDB® BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

-Editor-in-Chief

. M. = paket
\. A. L -~Managing Editor . Ss.
H. H. SMITH. .. Managing Editor +o ’
R. F. DAVID: -Assignment Editor . SPRUNT-. 1
A. C. ORMOND.. Athletic Editor . H. OGDEN, JR. --Literary Editor
A. C, - --Alumni_ Editor W._J. COOPER..--..-.-.-..---Publicity Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...---.-.- Exchange Editor
5)
REPORTERS’ CLUB

BITZER, R., Pres. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.

BRADFORD, W. Z. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H.

BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.

BROWN, W. P. IVES, J.C. SMITH, R. H.

CALHOUN, M. P. TONES, R, TULLER, C. D.

COX, W. M. ES, R. R. WALTHALL, D. B.

BURNS L. D. <NOX, W. T. WILDMAN, A. C.

ELLI » W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C, F.

MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

.-Business Manager

Ti CLAWOOL2ess co toaee
L, A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. a ---Circulation Manager Assi: in Circulati aN :
H. K. RUSSELL and C. D. TULLER * S. C. FAIN P, C, HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advértisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,

And, departing, leave behind us.
Footprints on the sands of time.”

D

“*

The unusual kindness of the weather man for the last month has de-
prived Davidson students of their favorite winter sport — grumbling
about the rain. : ———

D

The futile attempt of a large group of students and workmen to pull
down one of the lofty arches still standing in the ruins of Chambers on
Thursday afternoon showed just how strongly the splendid old building
was constructed.

D

The article in last week’s paper on the action of the Senior Class
in endeavoring to help athletics at Davidson was a decided misrepresen-
tation of the facts. Such a plan as the one described would be entirely
out of accord with the policy of clean athletics. which always has and,
we believe, always will prevail here. The mistake was due to a misun-
derstanding on the part of the reporter and a true account of the affair
will be found in another part of this paper. :

D.

A number of friends outside the student body have contributed ar-
ticles to make this issue a success, and while we cannot name
them all-here we;wish to thank each one for his interest and kindness.

D

THE WOODROW WILSON ISSUE.

T is always a difficult thing to write a satisfactory article about a
great man. In the present case the task seems well nigh impossi-
ble. So many fine things have already been said and written about

the life of Mr. Wilson that any words of praise we might write would
seem weak and inadequate by comparison, His deeds speak for them-
selves and no eulogy of ours could raise him higher in the estimation of
his admirers. He has well earned the place which he holds as probably
the. most loved man in the world today. A

It is as a small token of our love and admiration that the staff has
decided to dedicate this issue of the Davidsonian to this most distin-
guished son of Davidson—for we believe that Mr. Wilson’s year on this
campus gives the college a right to claim him as a son. Never before has
a Davidsonian been issued in honor of any one man, and it is only right
that this week’s paper should be the largest we have ever published. If
it reflects even in a small degree thefeeling of the college for the man

whose name it bears, the staff will feel well satisfied at the result of |

their efforts.
D.

1

GREETINGS.

The fall term is almost ended and a few more days will see the
campus almost entirely deserted. What seemed like an interminable
length of time in September has passed almost like a few days, and our
term’s work is nearly completed. Ss it has been well done while
some has been far from the success Which we would have wished, but
there are very few who are not glad to see it ended.

The staff and reporters of the Davidsonian are rio exception to the
rule in this respect, and it is with something of a feelin of relief that
‘we send this issue to press. It will be the last to appear before the
holidays, and we take this opportunity of wishing our readers a very
Merry Christmas. May the New Year find us ready to return to the
campus determined that our work this spring shall be of'a higher order
than ever before.

With Other Colleges

|UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND CON-
| FERS DEGREE ON MARSHAL FOCH.
| eae PAD 3
| University of Richmond, Va—At a
| University Convocation in honor of Mar-
ishal Foch the degree of Doctor of Laws
| was conferred on the World War Gen-
jeralissimo by the University of Rich-
|mond in brief but impressive ceremonies
here today. The honor was mutual; the
| University of Richmond being the only
| Southern university to have the privi-
|lege of having the distinguished French-
|man as an honorary alumnus and the
| Marshal being the first person to re-
lceive a degre of any kind from the uni-

orlversity other than at commencement
y

Approximately three thousand persons
}assembled on the fan-shaped West Lawn
lof the university campus while on a
| raised platform two hundred specially
|invited guests, including the Marshal
jand his party and other city and state
| dignitaries, viewed the exercises. The
jattractive English collegiate gothic li-
brary building gave a fitting background |
|to the scene, |

A. W. Patterson, president of the Board |
jof Trustees, in a short speech lauded the
idol of France and recommended him to
President F, W. Boatwright for the de-
| gree and then the president spoke briefly
lin French the following:

“Ferdinand Foch, member
French Academy, Marshal of
Commander-in-Chief of the Allied
Armies in the World War, immortal
leader to whom was committed the fate
of the world and who delivered us from
the enemy, glorious here without fear
and without reproach, honored by the
civilized world and beloved of all Amer-
icans:

“By authority of the Commonwealth
of Virginia and of the trustees of this
University, I declare you Doctor of
Laws of the University of Richmond.”

At the conclusion of the ceremonies
“La Marseillaise’ was sung in the na-
tive tongue by a vespered choir from
Westhampton College, the woman’s col-
lege of the University.

D
MR. RICHARD WYCHE VISITOR AT
SALEM COLLEGE.

Winston-Salem, N. C., Dec. 19.—Salem
College was honored Monday night, No-
vember 18, by a visit from Mr. Richard
Wyche, lionorary president of the Na-
tional Story-Tellers’ League. He spoke
in Memorial Hall to an attentive and
ciithusiastic audience on “Personal
Reminiscences of Joel Chandler Harris.”
This was interspersed with Uncle Remus
stories.

He told of Mr. Harris’ birth, boyhood
and early struggles against circum-
stances, his courtship and marriage, and
inspiration to write the negro folk lore
in dialect and also of his world renown
because of the immortal “Uncle Remus”
stories.

It was with regret that the audience
dispersed after having been so charm-
ingly entertained by one so well versed
in the art of entertaining.

D
MANAGING EDITOR’S THREE
INCHES.

of the
France,

This section of the paper makes its
| bow this week. In these three inches |
|

there will be discussed from week to!

week various matters that it is hoped
| will be of interest and help particularly

| to Davidsonian reporters. Some of these
jwill be: abbreviations,

quotations, a few printers’ usages, and
1

punctuation,

whatever it is considered will promote
the journalistic knowledge and practical
efficiency of men writing for the paper.

There will also be announced each

week beginning after Christmas the
article in the previous week’s paper
which in the opinion of the Managing
Fditor or the Reporters’ Club was con-
sidered the best one in that issue, to-
gether with the name of the reporter.

Any suggestions will be cordially wel-
comed.

On the suggestion board in the make-
up room of the N. C. C. W. Carolinian
there are shown three C’s for news
requisites: . Correct, Concise, Current.
Observing these three C’s will improve
the quality of articles for the papér.

| Not a hero in the game

Open Forum

| _ YES, A BURNING SHAME.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. (article came forth in the Open Forum

Under the ‘heading “A Burning Shame”
land under the signature “Chemical,” an

last week with which I wish to take
Opinions on Wilson. | strenuous issuc. I grant that it was a
“What I think many Americans fail; burning shame; a burning shame that
to see.is the great, the almost immeasur- |the Forum Editor should have let such
able service President Wilson has ren-/an article get into the paper; a burning
dered to the morality of the world.” |shame that even granting all the article
—Review of Reviews. | claims to be true, which we do not, that
|we should have on the campus a man
“Mr. Wilson lit a flame that ran) who waits till a man is down and then
around the world. America has been! hits him—a man who doesn't possess the
the promise of hope tothe down-trodden | first instincts of sportsmanship; a burn-
and the despairing. Mr. Wilson’s ideal-| ing shame that the Davidsonian had al-
ism, sniffed at and laughed at when to|lowed ‘such an article to go far and
men of stunted vision it was the dream! wide, which has in it a few kernels of
of a visionary, is now recognized as the truth, but which for the most part grows
wotds of a prophet inspired.” | out of the fertile imagination of Chem-
—Review of Reviews. | ical.
| He starts off by harping on our “very
|short-sighted policy” in regard to fire-
College Topics, University of. Virginia, figting apparatus. We grant that we
to erect a bronze tablet as a suitable) could and should have had better fight-
memorial in the room occupied by Wood-! ing apparatus—for we certainly have
row Wilson, when he was a student at/tearned our lesson through experi-
the university, —S.1.N. A. Jence. And yet it was not the fault
| of the college authorities that there was
“In virtue of the mandate of a great) yot sufficient pressure in the water
people; in virtue, top, of his own char-| mains that night to throw a stream to
acter; he has at more than one juncture! the top of Chambers building. The
been in very truth the arbiter of the drought and the scarcity of water all
destiny of the world.” over this part of the country was the
—The Peace President. | main cause for this. Just this year the
; | college has spent considerable money
“And Wilson’s administration has been| to install pumps which were guaranteed
notable. Its achievements, in enumera-| to keep the tank full—but what can
tion and importance have never been! man do against nature, the pumps. can-
surpassed,” —Carter Glass. [not pump unless there is water to be
Perhaps Chemical, with his

,

“There is a plan on foot according to

| pumped.

“Not until he had led a peaceful peo-| sparkling brilliance, might tell us how
ple to war and filled men with the ardor | to get water out of wells that, on ac-
of his own conviction, not until his pa-| count of the drought, have only a lim-
tience, his unyielding courage, his large! jted supply. The chemical machine
perception of essentials and general | vhich was purchased this fall would have
principles, the passion and the power of | heen cnough to put the fire out if it
his speech, had filled the world with his | jad reached the spot on time, but after
fame, did we begin to see the measure the flames had made the headway they
of the man.” had, an up-to-date city apparatus would
have had a difficult time overcoming
them. Yes, we needed a more elaborate
fire-fighting apparatus, but it is doubt-
ful whether that would have saved the
building.

And then, the writer makes this state-
ment, “Our growth has been a super-
ficial one of late.” He brings up the
fact that to all appearances the only
growth has been in quantity, and that
the quality had been ignored. He in-
sinuates that the Freshmen this year are
not as well prepared as those of former
years, and yet I have a statement from
the president of the college that this
year’s class is the best prepared class
that ever entered Davidson, that with
opened when the convocation in con-|the exception of three or four men who
trol of the Rhodes Scholarship at Ox-| wanted special work before taking up
ford decided that a knowledge of the! the ministry, every man in’ the class pre-
Greek language would not be consider- | sented his 15 credits as entrance require-
ed a requisite to obtain the eciroiaral piiinents: Once more, Chemical spoke
a decision which sums up the growing| whereof he did not know.
twentieth century interest in the practi-| What’s more, the writer insinuates
cal and in present day affairs. \that the increase in numbers is due en-

It makes possible the achievement by tirely to a desire on the part of the fac-
Tech men of the highest honor which | ulty and trustees to have more men in
may be accorded to an American stu- the college for the mere purpose of
dent.—S. I. N. A. : |greater quantity. He seems to forget

entirely that the pressure from outside
THE SCRUB. ‘| has been enormous, that the demands of

Or a winner of the fame; | the young men of the Church for a
But yet a hero hidden from the Met Sousaey WEL) ANCES bya boutar rai 3
Of admiring multicidee: | naturally being loyal Presbyterians, t bey

Wihtoseuenthtninetiemmacd: | want to come to Davidson. ae the sor
Can only praise the hero in the fight. ee cs aU UUW chal Uer ve a i Ben!
Jeyful in the victory’s heat, | have been crowded, over owing, wi

Sharing every sad defeat, icc ar are Pe ci

Thile ‘ get in. avidson ? 5
Mae ABE ere team whe Rants with the increase in numbers has come

ease in prices. It was impossi-

If need be when sounds the call lee Par; ip Beaten RIS inatatinie
For his service and his optimistic vim! | z ; 2
Scrubs, we’re with you in te fight! = Dutathe-aitum tion necste-pe eeaee i

You're not hidden from our sight, sult was the barracks. They pure e
And we'll back you to the limit every Iptcae things in scollege rouse, they

aren’t ideal, but they were put in for an

year Fi

5 cy and,they have served their

Then when football season’s done ha tam ee Geen Sian ever nee
And the battle’s lost or won, bY rae
pected.

You'll know we've backed you always ‘
: % There are many of us who think that

—New York Times.

“He is remarkably warm-hearted, even
emotional, and I have never come in
contact with a man who has more gen-
uine kindness and courtesy in his own
home.”

—Prof. Wm. E. Dodd.

“He is brave, straight, clean, loyal to
truth-and—to- principle;—with—-record
cloudless, and a career so distinguished
and so rich in ripened usefulness as to
invite to emulation wherever high
ideals are cherished.”

—Charlotte Observer.

A great opportunity for Tech men was

with a cheer. —Ex.
the number should be limited to 500, that
IRREPARABLE LOSS. the present number is sufficient. But
“Anybody hurt in the wreck?” there are also those who want the col-
“One gentleman, I believe.” lege to continue to grow and grow un-
“Bones broken?” til it develops into a large Southern
“I think it was his heart. He sat| Presbyterian University. We all have

our personal opinions, but we should
also have the utmost-respect for those

down by a leaking suit case and shed
tears."—Ex.

r
