4

The DAVIDSONIAN] Open Form |

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
to Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

i lication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
Lenni te eee atticiee neceived from an unknown source will not be published.

J. M. Richards_.-_........---.--.-.----..-.-------.--...---.-.---.-Editor-in-Chief
W. A. Gamble, Jr..---------..---....---.--.--~---...--------- +. Managing Editor
H. H. Smith._-......._.-~--.----------- +--+. Assistant Managing Editor
R. F. Davidson_.--.-- 1. eon nen eee nee e eee een een en ee, Assignment Editor
A. C. Ormond.....----.---------------2---nennnnnen nen ne econ nen nen- Athletic Editor
A. C. Summefs._...----------- nnn nnn nn nnn n nnn nnn n ne nnn ene eee ee Alumni Editor
J. H. McKeithen........2.2 ~~~ enn nnn e none ne Exchange Editor
J. P. Price_......-..-._.._..-----.---------- f nnnn nen en ee nneneeenecce= Forum Editor
M. R. Doubles.............-.-...-------.------ 2-2 nee eee Campus Editor
J.C. Bailey, Jr... n-ne anne nnn o nnn en owen sew ennenn nee neee---¥. M. C. A. Editor
J Sprunt..._ 222 n nn nen nnn nen nn nnn e ene eee Social Editor
D. H. Ogden, Jr...-...--- 0 - nee ee en enn n enna nen nn enone nan ceecnenes Literary Editor
W. J. Cooper_-.-.----.-----.-..------.---------------------------- Publicity Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Mitchell, A. M.

Cunningham, C. E. Long, C. G. Morris, H. M.

Jones, J. R. Mahood, D. L. Phillips, J. W.

King, A. D. Mauze, G. W. Tuller, C. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

eee www emo nen mse ewcoceccors eoceewewennwreewesone

J. S. CURRY Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

J. C WOOL.......... ----Circilation Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Success comes to the man who gives more than he receives,”
D—_—__

The Wofford game last Monday might well have been termed “A
Comedy of Errors” from the number of miscues charged to both teams.

D————_

Every man who can possibly make the trip should be in Charlotte
next Saturday to back the Wildcats against N. C. State. Let’s show
the Queen City that we are still on the map.

D-——___

With only six weeks of class work left before the beginning of
final examinations, it behooves us all to get down to real work.

—__D-—____ 4

In behalf of the Student Body we wish to thank Columbia Seminary
for the interest manifested in our welfare by the sending of their splen-
did quartette and speakers. They brought a message which will not
soon be forgotten by anyone who attended the “Y” service Sunday
night.

—___ op
FOR THE LACK OF THOUGHT

osition was placed before the Student Body under the terms of

which Easter Monday was promised as a holiday, if enough men
were willing to agree to return from Winston-Salem on the special
train to be operated on the night of that date. In response to this call
one hundred and three men signed their names to the petition, and thus
signified their intention of making use of this opportunity. Accepting
this promise in good faith, the faculty granted the holiday, and the spec-
ial train was secured. When the time came for the train to leave Win-
ston-Salem, however, eighty-one of these signers failed to show up,
and the Athletic Association was left to bear a loss of almost two hun-
dred dollars.

Had there been only a few men to fail in keeping their promise,
such an occurrence might have been excused. There are many unfore-
seen incidents which might at the last moment have prevented some
student, who had honestly intended going, from making the trip. That
such could have been the case with eighty per cent of those who plan-
ned to go, however, is an inconceivable occurrence. A great majority
of those who failed to keep the agreement must either have had no in-
tention of living up to it, or did not consider the keeping of their word
as of sufficient importance to warrant their going to any inconvenience
whatever.

Whether these men realized it or not, their action amounted to lit-
tle more than the stealing of this amount from their more honest fel-
low students, who refused to sign an agreement which they could not
keep. The Davidson Athletic Association could ill afford the loss
brought upon it, and this shortage can only mean that the students will
be deprived ofsseeing at least two games which would otherwise have
been Frought to the campus next year. Thus the many must suffer for
the sins of the few.

We do not believe that such a number of Davidson students would
deliberately be guilty of an act of this nature, for surely there is some-
thing fundamentally wrong with the principles of a man who can prac-
tice such a deception. Rather, we are inclined to the opinion that the

' indident was caused by a lack of thought on the part of these students,
And yt such carelessness is in itself almost criminal, and cannot be ex-

_ cused as such. We believe that the men who signed the petition should
‘be called on to make good this loss to the amount of their railroad |
fare, and that the Student Body should take adequate steps to protect
itself from such an occurrence in the future.

4

Cosi days before the Davidson-Carolina basketball Game, a ptop-

. THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1921.

WANTED: A YELL.

The need has long been felt at David-
son for a real good, distinctive college
yell. The game last Monday certainly
showed that the old spirit was present,
everybody was yelling as loud as he
could; yet, at times there was a feeling
that the’ yells we have aren’t enough.

When Buck hit his two-bagger, when
Brown made his third hit, when Hunter
fanned his seventh man, Haka-raka, the
Locomotive, the Sky-rocket, didn't seem
to quite express all we felt. We wanted
something bigger and better, something
that we wouldn’t use just on any oc-
casion, but one that when we did yell it
or hear it would make those little shiv-
ers run up and down our backs. A yell
that could well stand by the side of
“O Davidson.” ,

Why can’t we have such a yell? There
are bound to be some men in this stu-
dent body who could make up one if
they were just pushed to do it. Why
couldn't the Athletic Association or the
Davidsonian get back of this? Why
couldn't some prizes be offered as an
incentive to this work?

Right now the very yell we want is
lying in the brain of some man on the
campus and it’s up to somebody to get
it out. Who's going to do it?

Rube.

HOW IT LOOKS

From infancy, if Presbyterians, we
have been attending church services.
Up to the time that we were 15 or more
our fathers and mothers took good care
of us in the old family pew. But then we
had to go through the “gang spirit per-
iod,” and at this time the “Old Folks”
let us sit on the back seat with Jim and
Dick. Yes, it did feel big, if that’s what
you are thinking. But don't think for a
minute that Dad and his standards of
Church-respecting-sentiments were ab-
sent from our minds. We knew just
what do do and when to do the things
Mother cherished: for a merciless con-
science pierced us through if we didn’t.
Even that big-looking dime, that could
have filled one of a hundred wants,
slipped in the collection-plate.

But it is not collection especially ‘that
needs doctoring here at Davidson, as the
Lord knows our several abilities in that
respect. We need to be reminded that
we do break the laws of blessed child-
hood—the laws that are sacred, ever, to
these is formulated thus, “Children are
to be SEEN, and not HEARD.” We are
the children of God, Jesus Christ is of
Captain, the Pastor is His Reflector.
When the Pastor speaks, it means that
we are in the presence of the Most High.
Then, “let the words of our mouth and
the meditations of our hearts be ac-
ceptable.” Talking-in-church violates
the second part of the law, and sleeping,
the second half of the prayer. How can
we meditate upon the Word, as it is
spoken, when asleep?

Now a second law is that of hospital-
ity. In the warm summer afternoons,
when all enjoyed the cool of the porch,
don’t you remember what happened
when a friend came in: Yes, certainly,
he took your chair and you sat on the
railing. That is hospitality. But the
church is home, too, it is home in the
better sense of the word. Then all with-
in its walls are friends—no, more—broth-
ers. Well, what right have we to de-
prive our brothers of the refreshing
Word-of-God by talking and sleeping on
the shoulders of the good-natured? We
do not entertain a very wholesome de-
gree of hospitality, it would seem.

The title of this article, “How It
Looks,” calls for a very strong and al-
most unkind generalization. Those of
us who are guilty of the afore-mention-
ed bad habits, must come under one or
both of two kinds of unfortunates. The
first is the type which simply failed to
get good home training, and the second
is the type which falls short of maturity.
That we cast no reflections on the good
folks at home, let us gird ourselves with
the trusty apron-strings. A dangling
apron-string is as hard to get rid of, in
after life, as is our shadow, at the set-
ting of sun. Let the first type pick out a
gentleman by whom a new code of
habit may be formed. W. L.

pD———_

Dr. and Mrs. Martin-leave soon for a
visit to their son in Columbus, Ohio.

EXCHPHGE

GORE g
Max

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The Flunker.

The funker is an expensive proposi-
tion, to his parents, to the university
and to himself. He causes discontent
and dissatisfaction in the group or or-
ganization of which he is a member and
moreover, seriously injures his own
standing at the university and his rep-
utation at home. After all flunking is
too expensive a proposition for students
to undertake. The gain does not in the
least cover the cost and the credits are
all on the debit side of the ledger. Stu-
dents who flunked or barely slipped by
last term still have time time to come to
the front and to make a creditable show-
ing. There is no excuse for flunking.—
Exchange.

College Park. Mar. 29.—The largest
squad of recruits for the track team in
the history of the University of Mary-
land turned out today for practice.
Brewer, captain of the team and star of
last season, who was injured in football
last year, will not be in shape to run.
Smith, the former Deleware and Penn
State track man has charge of the squad.

Charles Paddock, University of South-
ern California and Olympic star, clip-
ped two-fifths of a second off the world’s
record for the 220-yard dash Saturday,
in a regular mect against the University
of California at Berkeley. Four watches
caught his speed at 20 4-5 seconds and
one at 20 3-5. Paddock earlier in the day
won the 100-yard dash, his time in that
event equaling the world’s record of
9 3-5 seconds.

News Item—There was considerable
scandal in our town Saturady night
when P. A. Cash, our focal butcher, was
found in an ice box with a lot of un-
dressed chickens—Rutgers Neilson.

Princeton Adops Senior Council Control
Project.

The senior council, elected by the un-
dergraduates, will hereafter pass upon
Princeton's morals and be empowered to
deal with students who “tend to lower
the moral tone and the good name of
Princeton,” university authorities an-
nounced. The action is a step in the
evolution of the Princeton honor sys-
tem, which has been in effect since 1893.
Power is vested in the senior council to
investigate cases against fellow students
and to recommend dismissal from the
university by faculty committee, with-

g sonecoecoocvocsososoossesccscososocesoscconessonenosooooocensccoseosonncooosooeee:

BELK BROS.
Are selling
Clothes

for
Young Men

Titi yyy
-

00 0000000200000606 dbecccodvecondssoncceseoenseessooceceesoece

at
Pre-War Prices

BELK BROS.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

r

out submitting the evidence upon which
the recommendation was based.
GES
DRAMATIC CLUB STA
DELIGHTFUL BANQUET

New Officers Elected—Outdoor At-
traction for Commencement
Planned.

One of the most enjoyable banquets
of the season was that held by the
Davidson College Dramatic Club last
Friday night at the home of Mrs. L.
Brady. .

The club went into business session
at nine o'clock, presided over by presi-
dent F. N. Thompson. The following
men were elected to handle the.affairs of
the organization for the coming year:
President, E. A. Nash; Secretary-Treas-
urer, J. S. Curry; Property man, W. B.
Carer.

It was decided that as a final effort for
the year an out-door attraction will be
put on during commencement. A com-
mittee to work out plans for such an at-
traction was appointed by the presiding
president, a definite report to be ren-
dered in the near future.

During the social feature of the even-
ing, short, informal dinner speeches
were made by Professors Frazer Houd
and E. J. Erwin, and leading members of
the club.

As a token of the esteem and apprecia-
tion of the untiring efforts of Professor
Erwin in making the Club a success dur-
ing the past year, he was presented with
a handsome mahogony library table, by
the members of the club.

The Dramatic Clu? although one of
the youngest of the college organiza-
tions, has become an important factor
in our college activities, and it is with
interest that the entire student body
watches its growth.

D——___

POLITY CLUB ELECTS
OFFICERS FOR
COMING YEAR

———eae

New Members to be Chosen at Next
Meeti

——

The new Polity Club officers were
elected at the regular meeting March
29th. The following men were chosen to
lead the club in its program for the
coming year: A. C. Summers, president;
T. M. Lowry, vice-president: J. R. Jones,
secretary and treasurer.

In connection with the regular pro-
gram Mitchell gave a short talk on
“Current Events” dealing with things of
national and international importance.
Another feature of the evening was a
speech by the president-elect in which
he reviewed the past year’s work and
outlined the work for the coming year,
stating the policy and object of the club.
The election of new members to the club
at the next meeting was announced.
