THE

ONE GAME WON ‘ Freeman, If 22000..022--- 3 11000
AND TWO LOST | fiodgin, ab 00020
Wrenn, c 3 0 O10 1 0
(Continued from page 2) Currie, p .-- 1000080
Bill Miley opened the fifth with a hot! Miley, p ..-.. 200041
hit to right. But the Methodist mine 7 ™ 7
ister in that garden flagged it down like go 2 42711 :
a Blue Sunday cop and threw Bill out at! CITADEL ABR H POA E
first by ten yards. Later in the same | Simmons, 2b. -..-----4 3 2 2°3~«0
frame Ratchford met one on the nose! Scovil. © eee ee 5 OO 9 9 00
and it lit a rag for lands far distant.! Kolock, ef -.. 40300
Hut the Fates sent along a gust of wind Rogers, tb wef O T10 0 1
and the ball didn’t quite get over the Frost, 3b ---..-_-. _.4 00310
wire on the right field fence. Ft boune- O'Shaughnessy, ss ..----4 t IT T 2 0
ed back almost into the infield’s hands Fxum. Mi -... 4 0043 10
aial by some iast honi work Pee-Wee, Priggs. If -- 4 12200
reached first sately. Pretty lucky. ’Pollock, p -. 4000350
Freeman, pinch-hitting for Brown in 1 foe vm ee ee eee
the ninth, failed to strike out as he was = Total -.... 37 3 10 27 12

supposed to do and sent a grass-cutter, Citadel .. -een-lO0I 100 .200~-5

to left center that looked like three Dividson 2242000 000 020-2
bases. Mut Breeman only got 40 frst Summary: Two-base hits--O'Shaugh-
on.ir, Two innings before Carson had nessy, Rriggs: Base on balls—Miley;
hit Co the same spat for a threerquartets Struck out -by Pollock 3: by Currie 4;
Urip. . sas _. hy Miley a; Double play Cassell to
Shepard. playing third for the frst’ patchiord: Left on bases-+Citadel 5;
Ume hobbled the first two chanees he payidson 2; Kirst on errors-—Citadel >:
had but atrer that he settled down and time 1435; Umpire Pharr.
played a steady game. Ry beautiiul, D

pees he got two men at tirst with jnst -
about it frog’s har to spare. LIBRARY NEWS.

DAVIDSON ABR HPOA F Among the new books recently added

“8

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921.

| ANNUAL WILL APPEAR IN
| ABOUT THREE WEEKS

The 1921 Quips and Cranks, which will
-undoubtedly be one of the most attac-
‘tive issues ever scen on the hill, will be
ready for delivery on or before the toth
of May. This book is composed of 308
_pages and will be bound in stiff fab-
rikoid. The first section, 24 pages, is set
_up in sepia on cameo ivory paper and
‘makes a splendid lead for the first part
_of the book.

The Senior section is splendidly plan-
‘ned. Their pictures are paneled on
Chamber's columns and the way the art
work is done in this section is one of the,
many examples of high toned artistry.

The individual pictures for the Sophs
also show up exceptionally well, and as

> . . . .
this issue is the first to give so much

. Space to the Sophs the following issues
wili, in all probability, have like sections,
for it adds much to the appearance of
the book.

The R. 0. T. C. section, 16 pages, is a
hook in itself. The officers’ individual -
Photos and the characteristic views of
the companies contribute no small part
_ toward making this one of the best sec-
tions of the book. -

Auhleties, also,
_the makeup of the book, for this sec-
;tion contains photos of men who have

Strect.” by Lewis. “The Lafayette Fly-, made athletic history here at Davidson.

The “Wildeat Weekly.” edited by Rod
Shaw, is one of the most amusing, ex-
citing. and interesting newspapers in ex-
But besides all these there are,
numerous advertisements mingted with
These advertisers are the
triends of the men here and should by
all means be patronized,

In short the management of this year’s

best, if not the best, annual that any
Senior class has ever produced. The
men that have worked on this issue have
given their time and their efforts to
make this issue a success and the stu-

dents should support them by support--

ing the annual and by patronizing the
advertisers in it.

D.

Capt. L. A. Wetherby, recently detailed
to the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit to aid
Major Hearn, is a native of the State of
Washington. He is a graduate of the
University of that State, in the Law
Department. Soon after his graduation
he enlisted in the U. S. Army, where ine
has been serving tne government m
various capacities ever since. He spent
most of his time during the war as an
instructor in the camps on the Pacitic
Coast. Since the war he has been de-
tailed to the RK. O. T. C. being wid:
several units in the South, among them
the Citadel, Birmingham High School.
and Union University, located at Jach-
son, Tenn. Captain Wetherby and kis
wife are cordially welcomed to David-
$on.

DAVIDSON RACKET WIELDERS
WIN FROM LENOIR.

Cunningham, Ormond, Morris and
Gaither Make First Tennis Trip.

Last Wednesday the Davidson tennis
team, composed of Cunningham, Or-
nond, Morris, and Gaither, left for Hick-
ory to play the Lenoir College tennis
team. The matches were played Wed-
nesday afternoon on the college courts
amid beautiful surroundings (you know
l.enoir is co-ed) and the Davidson team
never played better. Six matches were
played in all. First. the two doubles and
then iour singles, Although the Lenoir
team put up a hard fight Davidson took
both of the doubles matches and all four
singles.

The team stayed at the colllege Wed-
nesday night and came back to David-
son the next morning. All the team
praised the good sportsmanship and the
spirit of the Lenoir students.

D

I. W. De Arcmon and A. L. Currie spent
the weck-end in Charlotte.

He wants your business.

have quite a big part in J. B, Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He represents

only the best companies and has every

facility for meeting your requirements.

He is also a Public

Notary and at your

Rarehvora. ah “4 . 5 ' ' Ute the library is the popular novel “Main

al . Oh . cote =

prowe. ho ear : > ing Corps” is the title of a very instruc.

Treoman, § or S o lve book hy Hall and Nordhoff, which

Crawiord. i a ot ° ° ° , bas just been added,

ohspara. 3b — 8 00 8 ° o' Other additions to the shelves are 12] istance,
Wrenn, ¢ . _..3 0 1 8 o 1 tHMeresting books on missions and two 3
Milev, li --- .3 00100 volumes each of the following books:|the jokes.
Hunter, poo. ee 3 0 0 OF ° “The First World War, by Colone! Rep-

, . ae ee ce ington; “The Mediaeval Mind.” by Tay-
Totals... _..30 0 62511 g lor, and “Theodore Roosevelt and His
TRINITY ABR OH POA E. Time.” by Rishor:

MeAuthur, ci w.200000
Sy ikes, ef ~.38 00000
Curson, ¢ —-- wg O fF ODO
Neal. ab 200 2 3 0
Ormond, 21 -.4 0 0 TF 4:0
Cole, ri ...- 4 1 20 1 06
Jlathaway, li . 2 t 0300
Jolmson, tb aueof tT TI3 1 0
leave; ab weg 1 TY 120
MASON, |}? we ed O DT YF 20
Totals ee wee 32 4 6 27 13 «0

x Batted for Hrown m ure ninth,

Summary. Two-base hits Simpson,
Cole, Johnson; Threeshase hits. Carsont
Srolon hases Cole, Hathaway: Sacrifice
hits Neal, Hathaway, Shepard: Double
plays Simpson, lane and Johnsoni Or-
mond, Neal and Johuson; Eaened run -
Trinity 1 Rase on balls off Ihmter 34
Struck om bv Fhinter S: by Simpson
s: Time 1 hour 40 minutes: Uinpices -
Hack and Joyner.

Citadel Game

The Citadel. of Charleston. S. C. took
the long end of a 5 ro 2 with the David:
son nine last Saturday by bunching hits,
and by robbing their opponents of sey-
eral runs by their spectacolar fielding ;
The Wildeats pounded the olfcrings of
Poluel: for many long drives, but ume
aiter time the ball would fall into the
hands of a waiting Kulldng at the foot
of the fenee.

While Rollock was holding the Pres-
byterians to four lone hits, two of them
in the cigth, the South Carolinians
pounded Currie for several hits and two
runs in the three innings he worked and
continued their hitting rampage at the
expense of Miley who finished the game.

The Citadel holds a warm spot in the
heart of every Davidson man because of
their good sportsmanship and ‘do or
die” spirit. The wearers of the bluc anil
white showed themselves to be true
gentlemen where with bared heads they
stood while the band played ‘O David-
son.

Bunched hits netted the Citadel runs
in the first, third, and fourth inning. Two
more runs were added in the seventh
on clean hits, combined with errors in
the Davidson infield. Several Citadel
runners were cut off at the plate during
the game.

The Presbyterians took a liking to
Pollock's offerings in the eighth frame
and only pretty fielding ‘pulled him ,
through Cassell and Freeman singled.
Hodgin bounced to Pollock and each
runner moved up a peg when he was
thrown out at first. Cassell scored on

Wrenn’s roller and Freeman came home
when Rogers threw wild to third. This
ended the scoring for the Presbyterians.

DAVIDSON

oon on ™

Quips and Cranks has put out one of the}

You tell ’em, Camels,
you’ve got the quality!

OU get to smoking Camels because you

appreciate their fine, refreshing flavor!
And, you like them better all the time because
they never tire your taste!

Camels quality makes Camels so appetiz-
ing, so continuously delightful. And, Camels
expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Do-
mestic tobaccos gives them that wonderful
mellow mildness!

And, man alive, how you will prefer Camels
to either kind of tobacco smoked straight!

You have only to compare Camels with any
cigarette in the world at any price to know
personally that Camels are a revelation!

When you flash a deck of
Camels you tell the world
you’re smoke-wise!

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically
sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

servicc.

