THE

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921.

ooo eo

Diamond Dust

Don't knock the team. Ii they run in-
to a streak of hard tuck remember that
they are trying to do their best and that
is all that can be expected of anyone.

—Wildcatse—

Citadel has a well-balanced team, as
evidenced by their playing the other day.
One think that the hoys from Citadel did
that is commendable is that they stood
in honor of “O, Davidson.”

—Wildcats—

Elsewhere on this page are the batting
averages. In perusing the figures it will
be seen that some are batting the size of
their hat, some a little bit higher, about
the size of their shoes, while others are
batting as high as their laundry num-
hers.

—Wildcats—

Pee-Wee Katchford can rob a man «i
a hit and then laugh about it. In the
game against Citadel he canght a line
drive about two feet off the gronnd and
to the leit of him. Ft was a carch thar
would have done credit to some big-time
players.

—Wildcats—

The worst deteat that has been heard
of lately was the one handed on t the
Carolina track team hy the Virginia
cinder path experts, They beat Carolina
117 to 9, winning every first plaee.

—Wildcata—-

Georgia has won 15 games and tied
two games out of the 17 plaved tb’.
season,

—Wildcats—

Last weck a contest was anmounce:l
for the purpose of getting a mew yell 1°
help make a “Bigger and Better David-
son.” A prize of Sto was otfered for the
best yell and the second prize consists
of $3. So iar there has been no interest
taken in this contest. The need for such
a yell is evident. Ecllows, turn in a con-
triburion and take a chance on the prize
Back up your cheer leader and give him
something to work with. Finally, help
the teams to put all they have in the
fight by giving them the right kind of
support irom the side lines.

—Wildcats—

Why is it that the games that the
Wildeats play get a good write-up in one
of the Charlotte papers and in the other
one the account of the game, if won by
Davidson, is a small paragraph. and if
lost, big headlines aeross the top of the
sheet to that effect. Never yet has this
paper given the Wildcat teams a decent
write-up, or rather given them a fair
showing. The good playing of the on-
ponents and the errors made by Da-
vidson are the features of the storv. It
would seem to be to the interest of thar
paper to at least give this college a good
write-up, for Davidson is the only col-
lege that is instrumental in bringing
games to the Queen City.

: p——--_
SOPHS DEFEAT SENIORS
IN CLASS BASEBALL

The thump of bludgeons and the howl
of happy rooters resounded at Sprunt
Field last Friday. The occasion was the
plaving of a practice game in which the
Sophs swamped the dignified but hard-
fighting Seniors to the tune of 7 to 3.

Three grenadiers, one famous and the
other two not unfamous, were the duly
aceredited heroes of the atfray. Captain
McKay, of the Sophs, was placed in the
Hall of Fame by his stellar catch over
second base of a line drive off the bat of
Lord Culbreth in the ninth. Aside from
B rnamental three-bagger
in the fourth and Ground-hog Miller's
triple in the sixth, Love lifted a sky-
scraper to Pitts Dougles, left field, in
the second, and to Charlie Vance, center
field, in the fifth. Ordinary baseball
players would have become wearied
waiting for them to come down and
gone home, forgetting all about the mat-
ter. Not so with the two veterans, how-
ever. They knew there was a_ bal!
somewhere abuve in the blue ether that
would be along after a while, so they
4 ped out and snared it when it ap-

} McCutchen was walked in the
ent to third when Dick Rich-

one of Romeo's 8 b
it a mighty drive to right.
&@ single until Bob

Athletic News

i sat down to think the phenomenon over.
‘Then it was good for two bases. Al-
ithough Love and Blue flied out to Pitts,
McCutchen languished still on third,
| Mickey, coaching him, was making im-
| ploring gestures and whistling "The
Maiden's Prayer,” but McCutchen, wao
| was bustiy engaged in trying to set Ten-
Inysonis “Fhe Brook to music of his
own composition, died there when Sor-
‘rells hit to Milky who threw him out at
v first.
"Bill Roberjg pitched a two-hit gasme
, oT Soe ation on the receiving
fend caught a neat game. Matthews,
‘Komeielt and Walker pitched for the
losing side and Walker, Brady and
‘Brown caught.
. |
BATTING AND FIcLDING
| AVERAGES THRU SATURDAY

Batting Averages.

Krecman . . “y * i " sr SH ree and Jertw Benton, and the hirting of
katehford B 6 1 18 4 2 aM Moore were the features irom the win-
[trown .. 2310 15 ; 2 ning side: Through errors “Speck” Me-
_ te 1 bo So Los Counell made the only home run.
Currie ook dro po te The rame closed with the score 0 to 3.
- : : _ with three errors for the victors and 13
Johnson 2b RR Oe the Insers
Crawtord ..- 8207 Voth oF 0 we . “D
Cassen 2.002 820 ff TE 1B gr
Shepard = 44 § 9 14 6 4.208 ONE GAME WON
Tarnette 2. TL of ot 3 AND TWO LOST
Hodgan ak o fa 7; a To 0K . 7 t
Neal & a 1 1 @ 0 4125 (Continued irom page 1)
Wrenn aro t 8 8 OU OK avain when Freeman knocked a line
Erviy ..---.. 3 0 8 & 6 © .000 drive over second: Pat however, was
[Tranter & 1 0 09 0 0 «00 caught m home, thus ruining a chance |
: soe > tor a sceond eounter.
Totals VOR AP TOR Tp UTS 200 Blom’. lone tally came in the second
Fielding Averages. inning. With Clark on second, Harker
— PO A E TC Ave. knocked a three base hit to deep cen-
Currie O Ig 9 19 1000 ter held, bringing Clark home.
Hrown .. 10 2 0 121.000, Davidsonis secom! run came in the
itunter seen 9 5 9 § LOO Seventh when Hodgin went to first on a
UES eee -- @ Tt 0 1 £000 hall anutted by Underwood and then
rawford ....-24.. 130 4 2119 O85 stole second. He came home with the
Fenn... m 19 214) US winning run when Currie singled.
) ome - 3 19 1 24 u38” The features of che game were threc
Parnette - AX 0G 4 40 050 double plays and a sensational catch hv
Katchtord “X44 0 7X 024 Beown, of Elon. In the fonreth inning
Hodgin -.....--...- 1f 5 2 20 WO Larker eanght a bunt fly and threw to
Cassell seeccewsense 20 34 9 60 470° Newman for the first double, The next
wath we--- --.---- 13 13 ot 30 HOP inning Caseell to Ratchford tera
Jolinson -- + 8 3 18 Avvciond evened things up. The star play
Freeman - 8 3 1 # 730 came in the seventh with Currie, Miley
Neal ._ _... 4 2 4° 8 500 and Katchford on base and one ont. sore
“sss =: Brown at bat, the infield playing close.
Totals -.......--.-.255 180 30 480 023-and the onttield deep; things looked
Freeman ig the leading Wildcat swat-.pnod for a hit. Crack! the ball sailed to
smith with the splendid average of 400. center tield for apparently a sate hit.
Ratchford is leading the regulars with bunt just as the grandstand leaped to
the mark of 334. Pee-Wee has also their feet, Hrown, G. caught the ball!
made the largest number of hits, 16, andi with one hand and doubled to second

has pilfered the largest number of sacks.

‘together with a fourth who is yet to be

“was not supported by his infield. “Rciv™

picked,

One of the most interesting matches
so far was that between Brice and Gracy
in which they played the 18 holes to a
tie.

—_——- 1)

SENIORS LOSE TO FRESH
IN INTERESTING CONTEST

The Fresh baseball team, under th
leadership of John Briggs as captain,
won its first game irom the Seniors on
last Monday. The battery for the losers
vas Carl Matthews and Siem Brady, cap-
tain of the Senior team. Carl pitched a
strong game, striking out 14 men, but

McCorkle was the best bet in the in-
teld, while Henry Culbreth was heavy
hitrer for the Seniors, Chartie Vance
starred by picking a fly off the center
ticld fenee in the first inning.

For the Freshmen, Rriges pitched a
tine game, but was relieved by Spratt
Moore in the seventh inning. Spratt
struck out three nen while Briggs had
only two to his eredit. The pegging of
Gentry, the fiolding of “Nappy” Davis

The game throughout was tight. Both‘

3 The second-sacker has received free teams played exceptional ball, both out-|
transportation five times, but has re-} fields and inticlds putting up air-tight
turned to the bench via the Steike-out Lail, Katehford was the bright star for
route 8 times. . 1 Davidson, handling 9 ont of rt chances.
Granford aie leading the Tun-getters Marlotre for Elon showed up particu.’
with seven markers. He is tied withs larly well. playing his position admir-
Shepard for long hitting honors, with ably. Box score:

ive extra bases. Pot is also showing BION. ARHPOA
the way for the regulars in the tield with Newnan, 1b -8 211 3
an average of .o8s. Wrenn follows him Brown, G.. ef . . 4 03 1
closely with .984. »Jchnson, 2h .. -3 Jog
Cassell is the leading sacritice hitter.i Marlotte, $s ; cae f D2 2
with 4 to his credit. “Abriuon, rf. 2020
Brown is in the midst of a bad battini’ Underwood. c -4 0200
stump, having gone hitless in his last 15 Clark. We. -4 1 4 0
trips to the platter, Ratchford is making ; Cheek, ab -0 4 0 0
a drive for premier hit-maunfacturer of ! Stoner, ab -3 001
Coach Hengeveld's charges In six games | Rarker, p - woe 4 Ete
he raised his average from .200 to 341. ae ee
but fell back to .333 on Saturday. | Totals — 220.2222 leek. 33 O23 13

D- _ |

GOLF TOURNAMENT DRAWS .

SCORE OF ENTHUSIASTS

At the call for followers of that small
elusive pill better known as a golf hall,
about 20 men responded, all eager to
win either the club or some balls. For
the past weck the course has seen a
lively time.

Houston White was put in charge of
the tournament and he has kept things
going as well as keeping his end of his
matches well in hand. He is well pleas-
ed with the wa ythings are turning out
and expresses his belief that Davidson’s
golf team will make a good showing in
the matches that are scheduled for ‘this
spring. A match has been arranged with
Salisbury for next Monday or Tuesday.
The only men who have played as
ny as two matches and remain unde-
feated are White, Brice and Gracy.

re are several who have entered but
have not played off their matches. The
team will consist of the above three men,

DAVIDSON. ABH PO A! Trinity via the shutout route 4-0. Five
Ratchford, 2b .---. _--. 4 3 2 7\/errors were chalked up against the
Brown, C, ri -.--------.. ----- 4 3 2 7|Wildcats and they affected the result
Cassell, $9 -- _. 4 0 2 6|materially. Hunter, starting his firse col-

. .-. 4 01 Illege game. pitched a fine game for the
Freeman, cf _ _...-- 3 I oO 0] Presbyterians, in spite of poor support
Wrenn, ¢- .4 1 6 Ifirom his mates, and deserved to win,
Hadgin, ab - -3 0 © 21 Timmy Simpson was on the mound for
Currie, He eee 3 Y O O)}Trinity and had two things, a dip irom
Miley, op eee 3 2 1 3/W-.S Hi that won him a lot of applause,

€ ——-——Jand a first mortgage on Old Man Luck,

Totals -.---------+-------- 32 11 20 27) that won hima ball game. The Wildcats

Score by innings: hit him hard and ojten, but the ball
Elon .-..--.> --U10 000 000-1! would either go straight to some fielder,
Davidson _-- 2-100 000° OIX--2\ er hit the fence and bounce back to

Summary: Runs scored-—Clark, Katch- | them.
ford, Hodgin; Errors — Underwood.| The Presbyterians had their pet
Cheek (3), Ratchford (2), Hodgin;|theory of predestination demonstrated
Three-base hit-—-Barker; Base on balls—|to them to their full satisiaction—or
Miley 3, Barker 1; Struck out—by, MMissyprather dissatisiaction. The Eates had

dccreed that Davidson was to lose the
game. and altho the Wildeats fought un-
tT! three were out in the ninth, the
hits -Brown, Stoner; Stolen bases—|argument might as well have ended right
Freeman, Hodgin. Marlotte; Left on]|there. For instance: In the fourth,
bases-Elon 7; Davidson 6; First on! Cray ouneed a liner against the
errors Davidson 3; Time—1:30; Umpire} right field wall so hard that it bent one
Blackburn. of the boards donble. but didn’t quite
Trinity Game. break it. The force of the recoil was

With the jinx still camping on her Strong enough to throw back nearly to

.. . . i t 49 a -
nail. Davidson journeyed up to the the intield and Pat got only one base
trhacco city last Kriday, and lost to;

> Parker 2; Double plays—Barker to
Newman; Cassell to Ratchford to Craw-
ford; GO. Brown to Marlotte; Satrifice

(Continued on page §)

SCOSSOSROAOSS TOES TEEOHSHSEOEEOOSOROHEENODSSSOOAOSOHDERAGHOSEOSESAOREASOHEODESEECOD

BELK BROS.

Are selling
Clothes

for

Young Men
at
Pre-War Prices

BELK BROS.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

POT Iii ii ririririiitiiiitiririiiiiiitiiiti ty

SOCOAEIASWHSESO OOD E CHOOSER OOOO SHE COSHH OSOOEOOEOOOSELEOOEEOEHOOHOOH OOOOH OOSEO OOOOH SODETOOHOSSORESSOOOHOCOSEOOES

[PeSecowownsasecnosnessssscsss. Tritt iti reir i itt tttittt  rtrrr e iT rt reer rt ooanes

Gloves Bats

Our g oves run from

Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to $3.50 each. Give us

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats.
$2.50 to $12.

your order.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.

EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)

5 W. Fourth St. Phone 3248

powers

b pacesescsscccscssesssacscccccecccoe's|

(Z

