a

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

Alumni News

DR. MOORE DESCRIBES
DAVIDSON IN EARLY 70s

Tells of the Condition of Athletics
at That Period.

Dr. W. W. Moore, while on the hill a
few days ago, in an interview with a
Davidsonian reporter, gave a descrip-
tion of Davidson as it was when he at-
tended the institution.

In 1874, the year of Dr. Moore's en-
trance here, the University of North
Carolina was closed on account of some
political mix up. Hence the student
body of Davidson, as the leading college
of the state, was swelled to the unusual
number of a hundred and forty. Sixty
men composed the Freshman class; how-
ever, Dr. Moore relates, only 12 “came
under the pole” at graduation time. The
faculty was then composed of seven pro-
fessors, among whom were Colonel Mar-
tm, father of Dr. W. J. Martin; Dr.
Hepburn, later president, and Dr. Thorn-
ton, now professor of applied mathe-
matics at the University of Virginia.

The athleti¢ equipment of Davidson.
according ao Dr. Moore, was made up of
a baseball diamond at the south end of
Chambers, a horizontal bar, and the
south wall of Chambers, made use of in
a game called ball-alley, very much like
our present game of hand ball. Their
rather limited equipment led to the use
of the first floor hall of Chambers build-
ing as a recreation center. A favorite
sport was the driving of a wooden ball
with shimmey sticks along this hall. On
one occasion the wooden ball struck a
student on the car, and his death re-
sulted.

A high plank fence surrounded the en-
tire campus, and was crossed by a style
just behind the Eu Society hall. It was
over this style that the boys climbed on
their way to Helper’s Store (the fore-
runner of Jew Elliott’s). Of course the
trees on the college grounds were young
at this time and there was nd means of

lighting the campus when old Sol laid

off the job. :

Since Dr. Moore’s college days the
entire plan of the college grounds has
changed. Instead of the chapel being
the center and the entrance to the
campus being at the south, all improve-
ments and buildings at present are
grouped around Chambers and the en-
trance to the campus is from the west.

p————

HERE AND THERE
AMONG OUR ALUMNI

The entire community was deeply sad-
dened when the announcement of the
death of Mr. Dozier A, Lynch, ‘10, which
occurred at Edgefield, N. C., on March
oth, was heard.

Mr. Lynch was born February 9, 1889,
and graduated from Davidson College
in 1910 with high honors. After leaving
Davidson he entered the law department
of the University of North Carolina and
at the close of his Junior year there he
decided to take the Senior year in law
at the University of South Carolina.
While in his Senior year at South Caro-
lina he accepted a position as private
secretary to Judge Woods. Mr. Lynch
was known*as a very diligent student,
being especially noted as an orator.

Early in the spring of 1912 Mr. Lynch
became a victim of tuberculosis and
spent three years in a private sanitarium
in Asheville and later went to Fort
Stanton, New Mexico, where he has
since resided. Two weeks ago Mr. Lynch
went to Edgefield from Fort Stanton to
visit his mother and died there at about
12 o'clock on March oth.

Mr. Lynch’s many friends who were
students with him will be shocked to
hear of his death, especialy since caused
by tuberculosis, for he had such a strong
constitution while at Davidson.

Our warmest sympathy goes out to
those who survive him—his mother, Mrs.
Kate Lynch; and his two brothers, W. C.
Lynch, of Edgefield, and W. E. Lynch,
of Rowland, N. C,, in their bereavement.

——_ )P -—_—_—__

More than 60 Davidson men were rec-
ognized among the delegates at the Lay-
‘men’s Convention in Greenville fast
week, among them being Lacy McAllis-
|ter, 20, and R. C, Long, a brother of C.
.G. and F. V. Long.

Among the Davidson alumni living at
\Greenville and especially interested in
the success of the convention were: H.
T. Mills, '06; J. W. McNeill, '04; L. A.

ills, ’07; R. I. McDavid, '06; W. R.

Lu ee =:

Cely, ‘07; “Steve” Walker, '17; Jack

Black, '20; and F. K. Spratt, 'o4.

Sam Burney Hay, ‘16, is a student at
Columbia Seminary.

John Blanton Belk, ex-’17, was a mem-
ber of the Columbia Seminary Quartet
which added so much to the pleasure of
the Laymen’s Conference at Greenville.

W. A. Goodman, ‘97, spent the week-
end at Davidson, coming especially to
hear the lectures by Dr. Moore. John
M. Wolfe, '97, was here also. He is now
in the offices of the Southern Power
Company, in Salisbury.

Dr. Martin, having been sick for sev-

jeral days, went to the hospital in Salis-

bury last Sunday.

J. Edwin Sanders, '20, is now teaching
school in British Columbia. His pres-
ent address is 1597 N. Hampshire Road,
Oak Bay, Victoria, B. C.

B. F. Quigg, ‘o9, is now superintendent
of the schools of the city of Rome, Ga.

James Stough, ex-'18, former Davidson
star, who managed the Cornelius team
in the County league last year, has sign-
ed with Little Rock and left Charlotte
last week to report for spring training.
He wilt play either first base or one of
the outfield positions. .

Camel Cigarettes

DR. EGBERT W. SMITH A
DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS

Is Now Secretary of Foreign Mis-
sions in Southern Presbyterian
Church.

Egbert Watson Smith, '82, was born at
Greensboro, N. C., January 15, 1862. His
parents were Rev. J. Henry and Mary
Kelly Smith: He received his A.B. at
Davidson College in 1882 and graduated
at Union Theological Seminary in ‘86,
only six years later. Davidson honored
him with the D.D. degree.

Dr. Smith married Miss Mary Wallace,
of Franklin, Tenn., April 15, 1891. He
was ordained into the Presbyterian min-
istry in '86 and became superintendent
of evangelical work in the N. C. Synod
in ‘91. He was called to the pastorate of
the First Church in Greensboro in ‘93.
which position he occupied 12 years.
After leaving Greensboro he went to
Louisvilte, Ky., and was the pastor of
the Second Presbyterian Church of that
city for a period of five years. In to11
Dr. Smith was called by the General
Assembly to take charge of the Secre-
taryship of Foreign Missions of his
Church, and which position he still
holds.

In all the positions Dr. Smith has held
he has served faithfully and well. In
toor he published his book, “The Creed
of Presbyterians,” which has attained a
widespread popularity among the
churchmen of this country.

Dr. Smith is one of the most illus-
trious of all Davidson's alumni, and we
are watching eagerly for further
achievements resulting from this great
man’s efforts.

Dr. Smith has two brothers, both |

alumni of Davidson, that are equally
prominent in the religious and literary
world. They are Dr. C. Alphonso Smith,
head of the English Department at An-
napolis, and Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ex-
president of Davidson, and now serving
in that capacity at Washington and Lee.

White’s Meat Market
BEST_FRESH MEATS
DELIVERED

Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N.C.

New Central
Hotel

In the center of the the-
atre and shopping

Thoroughly modern and
up-to-date
Where Courtesy and
Service is the motto

Make your headquarters

with us when in
Charlotte

Frank Gregson, Mge.

are such a revelation in quality!

OMPARE Camels with any cigarette in the world at any
price and you will realize how unusual and delightful they

really are. And then, too, you will better understand why Camels
are universally smoked throughout the nation!

Camels were created to be the finest cigarette ever made both
as to quality and the enjoyment they provide. They were made
to excel in refreshing flavor and wonderful mellow mildness any
cigarette you ever smoked—and they do! Your taste will

prove that! -

You'll keenly appreciate the smooth, much-desired delightful-
ness that comes to you from Camels expert blend of choice Turk-
ish and choice Domestic tobaccos — and — Camels freedom from
unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste and unpleasant cigaretty odor!

And, it’s real satisfaction to be able to smoke Camels as lib-
erally as you like because they never tire your taste!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Have that

OLD SUIT
or HAT

CLEANED
or DYED

They will look

new

‘The Ben Vonde Co.

The best Dyers in the
South

Agency At the Powerhouse

Camels are sold every-
where in scientifically
sealed packages of 20
cigarettes for 20 cents.

