4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

*

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Ss.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Cla

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

=

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

ALY n i
----Athletic, Editor
- --Alumni Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN.

REPORTERS’

Literary Editor

H OGDEN, Jk
j, J. yh Lede Publicity Editor

W. J. COOPER.
Exchange ‘Editor

CLUB
W., V.-Pres.

MAUZE, G.
MOORE, W. H.

BITZER, R., Pres.
BRADFORD, W. Z.

aiZ HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W.P. IVES, J.’C. SMITH, R. i.
CALHOUN, M. P. ONES, J. R. TULLER,
COX, W. M. ONES, R. R: WALTHALL, D. B
Aa at Se ae EAC, TA. WILDMAN, C.F
ELLIOTT, W. T. EACY Te Ay i ‘CF.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

Vin Cos WOOLSieccccassnonce Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Anei,

M. R. DOUBLES..--.....Circulation Manager Circulati Department:
. K. ELL and C, D. TULLER S. C. FAIN P, C. HENDERSON
pie Sy INT, Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE .

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, no one will deny that there was fire on the campus this Senior
Week, anyway.

D

There is nothing like trouble to show how many friends a person
or a college has. Davidson wishes to thank the Charlotte Fire Depart-
ment for the prompt steps it took to help us on Monday morning,

D

The Wildcat Minstrel fully came up to the expectations of all who
saw it, and Professor Erwin with his taff of assistants are due a hearty
vote of thanks for the splendid entertainment they presented.

-D

Since examinations do not come until after Christmas this year the
class football games will be held before the holidays, and some royal
battles are expected on Sprunt eae within the near future.

And by the way, had you realized that Christmas is hardly three

weeks off? ‘

D ~
THE BURNING OF CHAMBERS.

N the great blaze of last Monday morning there fell perhaps the
l hardest, and certainly the most unexpected blow which could have
come to Davidson College. For nearly three-quarters of a cen-
tury that massive pile of brick and stone known as the Chambers
building had rearedits lofty cupola toward heaven, and by reason of
its imposing size and exterior had laid hold on the imagination of all who
beheld it) Large enough to care for a small college in itself, it stood as
a noble monument to the man whose name it bore and whose generagity
made possible its construction,
Generation after generation of students had come to abide for a few
years within its historic walls and then to pass on into the world be-
yond, and with the passing of every class new traditions had gathered
round the great building until the very soul of the college seemed em-
bodied in it. The rugged strength and quiet grandeur of the edifice
seemed to symbolize the things for which the-college stood, and it was
largely in its symbolic meaning that hundreds of alumni and students
had come to love it.

To us its burning meant more than the loss of property valued at!

$250,000, for we believe that the money for a new and modern building
will quickly be supplied by the friends of the college. The building with
its four stately columns and its storied cupola had come to be areal
friend to us, and at its loss we mourn almost as truly as if a living
Ariend had passed from our midst. For the old Chambers can never be
fully restored. :
And yet Davidson has not suffered an irreparable loss. The ob-
ject about which so many of our traditions had clustered is gone; but
Ahe traditions themselves still remain and will not die. The yassage of
tlhe familiar old landmark only places on us as students of Davidson a
heavier responsibility in seeing that the customs and spirit of our col-
lege are kept alive, and handed down intact to the classes which come
‘after us.
, Dre ddartin.has already, sounded the keynote of confidence and op-

can be*depended* on ‘to do all that«ts humanly possible to put the college
back on its,9, cipgting The real responsibility cannot rest entirely with
them, however, 4otno ‘matter how splendid a structure may be raised in
tthe place of the old Chambers, their work willbe in vain if the student
ody does not remaingrué tO tHE EGals which shave been set for us in
past years. ;

., Already it has manifested,the true spirit of Joyalty and has settled
down jto, work under, new. and. trying conditions with stich zeal that even
‘now, only, two days after the, fire, the current of college'life seems almost

undisturbed. It is in the remaining days of the year, however, when
‘the exe gnety and inspiration: of ‘the, moment Have passe sthat, the real
» test will come: Let uS steadfastly determine that if our efforts can make

Gt “86, A“bigger and a better Davidson shall

arise out of the’ashes and
ruins that were:dnce: Ghambers.: Pee RTE

a
™

---Editor-in-Chief . P. PRICE.
i Edit 8} RRY ampus Editor
erence Editor . C. BAILEY, JR -Y. M,C. A. Editor |
ignment Editor . SP. T. --Social Editor

Open Forum

HONOR TO WHOM

HONOR IS DUE
e

The women of Davidson are the
best people on earth. No preacher
with all his goodness, no doctor with
all his service to men, no college pro-
fessor with all his desire to instruct
the future leaders of church and
state, can compare with them.

Since way back in the dim past
they and their mothers have been
serving the generations of: college
men who have come and gone, There
j|has never been a. great commence-
|ment, or even a smaller one, never a
{successful -Senior week, nor a de-
lightful Junior Speaking which they
have not made possible.

On many of these occasions some
,of them have not been seen, and to
our shame, it must be said, not even)
appreciated. More than one of them
stayed at home last Saturday night, |
missing the minstrel and the recep-
tion, in order to prepare for Sunday
and our guests.

What would we do without these
good women who are willing, nay,
even glad to entertain us and our|
guests, who when the call is made
for rooms, on the various occasions
of rejoicing, offer us more than we!
jneed, who entertain our guests as!
| their own and give them the best the |
land affords,

When this article was begun it
|was intended to end-here. But-since!
i then trouble has come upon us. |
Just aftenall the pleasures of Senior
: even before all the be-|
loved ones had departed, old Cham-|
jbers was burned, One hundred and|
(thirty-three men were left without |
| rooms,

Long ere the fire died down alle
began to come in from “those who|
serve” and again “Old Davidson” |
found herself indebted to them Be)
yond measure.

For this last. and greatest service |
every man in college is grateful to|
you, women of Davidson! For en-!
tertaining our sweethearts we thank |
you; for adopting our fellows we|
love you! C. W. J.

iT

|

RED AND BLACK. |
Ss

We have had Red and Black rib-|
ron, Red and Black pennants, Red}
and Black pillow tops. These we}
have had for some time. But the|
latest thing out is a Red and Black |
dress hat. How do you think that |
will look? I can tell you, they look |
fine. The hats are of medium brown
color, young men’s model, English
style, the Berg brand, “quality with-
out extravagance.” Ed Mellon had
them designed especially for David-
son men,

These hats are lined with Red and
Black crepe de chine and have
small touch of Red and Black on the
bow of the band.
the best colors in the world to show,
vet not enough to be conspicuous.
This is the hat we have wished for
often; just the thing you will want
to wear around home during the
holidays.

There is one of these hats now en
display at No. 3 La. Come around
jand see how you like it.
jyour order now or you can get one
jat Ed, Mellons on your next visit to
| Charlotte. ( Adv.)

|

| Queens Blues Is Bringing Noted

Musician to College.

Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 25 (Queens)
—Harry Mercer, a wonderful tenor,

|
cember. Mr. Mercer comes under
the auspices of the Queens Blues.

accompanist and also a violinist. Mr.
Mercer is now with the Redpath

considers herself very fortunate in

tertain at the college.

Guests at the Infirmary during
the past week were: J. S. Gracy,
B. F. Hastie, R. K. Shaw, J. R. Max-
well, H. L. Johnson, H. M. White,
C. C. Cantrell, and Bill Ramseur.

a
é

Just enough of!

I can take!

“ : Las | will give a concert at Queens in De-|
timism for every Davidson man, and the Faculty and Board of Trustees

He will have with him a very capable |

Chautauqua and Queens considers |

being able to get such artists to en-!

With Other Colleges

N. C. College for Women Sees
“Beyond the Horizon.”
Greensboro, N. €., Nov. 26.—Eu-
igene O’Neill’s famous play, “Be-
jyond the Horizon,” was presented
in the auditorium of the North Caro-
|lina College for Women last Tues-

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The Cold Diggers. day night by the Shakespeare Play-

Two little worms were digging house Company, of New York, under
away. They were digging in dead the direction of Frank McEntee. The
earnest. Poor Ernest! — Purple|character portrayals and dramatic

Cow. |interpretation of this great tragedy

—— |of environment was_ exceptionally
Antedated. |fine. The Shakespeare Playhouse
Teacher—You dirty boy, you. Why | Company was the tihrd number of
don’t you wash your face? I can) the college entertainment course.
see what you had for breakfast this |
morning.
sob—What was it?
Teacher—Eggs.
sob—Wrong.
day.—Iix,

| War Debt Debate Held at N. C. Col-
lege for Women.

| Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 26—The
Dikean Literary Society of the
|North Carolina College for Women
/gained first chance at the third cup
|offered by R. C. Brenau, of Greens-
|boro, when they defeated the Cor-
inelians with the affirmative of the
/question, “Resolved, That the war
debts of 1914 and 1918 be cancelled.”
Having won the second cup for three
consecutive victories in debate, the
Dikens are entitled by their victory
last Wednesday night to meet the
Adelphians in the spring debate. The
speakers for the Dikeans were
Blanche Henley, of Goldsboro, and
Mabel Stamper, of Leaksville. Iola
Parker, of Rocky Mount, and_Daisy
Hunter, of Turkey, N. C., upheld the
negative of the question for the Cor-
nelians.

|
|
That was yester-

Football Players Better Students at
Colorado “U”.

Figures made public by the Regis-
trar’s office of the University of Col-
orado show that the football men, as
a whole, average higher in scholar- |
ship than men who do not go out for|
athletics. The men of the entire!
school average 74.87, while the let-|
ter man averaged 77.32 for the year |
1920-21. |

John—Your mouth and mine are
about the same shape.

She—You mean to suggest—

He—That’s about the size of it.

|

Strenuous Life.
Student enters.
Takes seat.
Answers roll (for himself).
Answers roll (far cutting brother),
Opens notebook.
Looks at girl.

N. C. College for Women Lecture
Course Begins.
Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 17.—The
first lectures in the winter lecture
jand concert course of ‘the North
Carolina College for Women were

Looks at Prof. delivered November 11th and12th by
Takes notes. Dr. Dallas Lore Sharpe, head of the
Looks at girl. Department of English of Boston
Closes notebook. University and a noted essayist. Dr.
Looks at girl. | Sharpe spoke Friday evening in the
Looks at Prof, college auditorium on “The Magical
Looks at girl. ;Chance,” speaking again Saturday

Opens notebook,
Sell rings.
Closes notebook.
Leaves. |
Outside (Say, Bill, isn’t this class |
awful! !’”) —Atheneum,

jat noon on “Education for Democ-
|racy” and in the afternoon on. “Edu-
;cation for Authority.”

Elon Hears Rev. Mr. Minton.
Elon College, N. C., Nov. 14—The

: : lRev. Mr. W. P. Minton, Foreign Mis-
Several new forms. of athletics | ion Secretary of the American
have appeared lately in the various) Christian Convention, has been here
colleges of the country, Boston, ¢,, several days in the interest of

Tech has organized interclass tug-
of-war teams and_ intercollegiate |
teams for fencing, A schedule of
matches in the latter sport has been
arranged with Harvard, Yale, and
Dartmouth.” Trinity College if of-
fering a course in scientific wrest-
ling. Leland Stanford University |
has organized a number of polo
teams which are to engage in con-
tests for the championship of that,
university in the near future. A
tentative schedule with other col-
leges is being arranged also. At
lowa State College horseshoe pitch-
ing is becoming a favorite sport. A
meet has been planned with Drake
and other colleges.

Foreign Missions. He delivered a
powerful sermon to the student body
last Sunday morning and on Sunday
evening he gave an illustrated lec-
ture on his toufrs in Japan last year.
| He also held a conference with the
Student Volunteer organization of
this institution. In speaking of the
Christian Mission work in Japan,
Mr. Minton declared that he felt
that the work was progressing very
satisfactorily and that Christian in-
|fluence was being felt even in po-
litical circles in that country.

| panne
South Atlantic Y. W. C. A. Secretary

Visits Queens.

pendent Charlotte N. C., Nov. 15 (Queens)
Must Have Been Another. Miss Katherine Lumpkin, Y: W. C.
A pretty young lady stepped up A. Secretary in the South Atlantic
to a counter in a music store where field, spent the week-end at Queens.
the new clerk was arranging some|On Saturday SUSDINE she conducted
songs. As he turned to wait upon @" old-fashioned sing,” which was
‘her she said in her sweetest 1 thoroughly enjoyed by every one
most appealing tones: jpresent. Her talk at the vesper
Gites were aaa service on Sunday Was very impres-
Moonlight?” | Sive and helpful. She came to
“No, ma’am,” said he in confusion, @teens from Winthrop and is plan-
as his face reddened, “it—it must/"ing to visit other colleges in the
have been the man at the other South.
jcounter, I’ve only been here a week!
and don’t remember ever seeing you
before.”—Ex.

anc

Me in the

Celebration in Honor of Queens
Student President.

—- Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 25 (Queens)
“Mamma, am I descended from a}—On Monday, November 21st, Miss
| monkey ?” |Rena Blanton, the Student Govern-
“I don’t know, my son,” his mother|ment President, Was initiated into
replied, “I never knew any of your | the Kappa Omicron Honorary So-
father’s people.”—Ex, iciety. After the initiation a banquet
—. |was given in her honor at the Brown
Cruel Heart! | Betty Tea Room, after which the
She—“I got my complexion from|members attended a lecture on art
my father.” igiven by Joseph Pennel, under the
He—“He must be a druggist.”—/auspices of the Woman’s Club of
Ex. : Charlotte.

