FE Ormond-_----- _

Bibteinilw.

|
J
2

4

The DAVIDSONIAN

. Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

NI

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

*

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

7 Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be it the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 nvon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

.-- Editor-in-Chief

- «4 =. ..Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Ass nment Editor
..---Atnletic Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

J. M. Richards .
W. A. Gamble, Jr...
H OW. Smith

kK. F, Davidson--

-—

H. McKeithen..-

_ BP. Price... - - ...korum Editor
{. Rk. Doubles- - -. Campus Editor
: tr. YM CLA. Editor
r Sprunt._- .. . Social Editor

.--Lirerary Editor
Publicity Hditor

D. MW. Ogden, Ir..---
W. J. Cooper .

PORTERS’

Fle ton, W. OM.
he SIC
Jone.) RB
hing, \ D
Luwov, TN
Lone, C G
Mahood, 2. 1.
Mate OTT

Ci,U B
ALanse, te LA
Motehell WooM
Morris, FEM.
Phaitip. AWW,
‘TImller, C D.
Wall all DR
Wridima., \ ¢
Wilda. CT,

RE
Thitzer, R.

Hradiord, WZ.
Calhoun, M. P.

ton, WOM

. vnaglas yb.
Dliott, WoT
Fewell, kd.

Crac.. JS.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

hes. CURRY . “+: Nusines> Manager
bh. T. Waolialh —_. \ 1 Ro we, Manager
W. 5. Shepard Yt Buamne - Manner
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL... wee eee cee ee ..-. Circulation Manager
HW. WK. Kissell . Not Careulaven Manages
C bz. Taller Lee wae Asst. Cirenlation Mamasner
Assistants in Circulation Dept.
S C kan I. C Henderson Watt Metain Ko. Price
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.
“The soul of all improvement is the imyrovement of the soul.”
D
This weck marks the last issue of The Davidsonian before Com-
mencement. We wish the entire student body success with examina

tions, aud urge that you all stay for the graduating exercises.

We are hoping to see more of our Wumni here ior Commencement
this year than ever before, There is no other way of keeping in touch
with your .\lma Mater so eftectiye us an occasional visit to her cam-
pus.
uD

li we must lose bascball games. may it always be to a team i
the one which represented Citadel here last Monday. The Cadets put
up a classy brand of baseball throughout the game and yet displayed the
kind of sportsmanship that is hard to equal. They were the first visit-
ing players who have been big enough to stand during the playing of
“QO! Davidson!” This courtesy was appreciated and will not soon be

forgotten by any Davidson man.
I er Davidson Club came into existence on our campus, Its mems
bership included every student of the college and it adopted as its
motto the well known slogan, “.\ Bigger and a Detter Davidson,” The

ke

A BETTER_DAVIDSON.

WO years ago this spring the organization known as the Great-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921.

| Open Forum

FRESHMAN EMANCIPATION.

When our coach sugeested last iall
that the whole student body provide
sweaters for the football ceam as a
willing gift) instead of requiring the
hreshmen to give them, he therchy gave
caprossion to one of a series of ideas
which should take hold on every col
lege man, ideas based on the principle
that overv man in college should be
considered us a reat prurt of the college
and thet uc ont set of men should be
made the Jart of every unkind of ar-
rogant whim of anothor set

We are told that having is not uexrly
so had at Davidson as. n ased to he,
and we are willing co believe 1. ]i-it is
becoming toss or an cvil it must be duc
t> a growing realization that it is au
improper practice. Then, why tot
aholish it altogether? Why not ren
ognize that a Ereshman is a hinnan be
ing and trot him sor Why nor fully
emancipate hin? Domination over
kreshinen i: an indication of smalliress
of cahbre Frequently die Freshman is
a hotter mim moralls and intelleemally

sand a cleaner man phy acaliv than the

vpper Classman who tere Ge the upper
men clanusy to show hiwr what cot.
less Toe th, and onto in the world awe
Irrun the omrem hat protect. thy xo
wan ons hts nave wons the
fae Tirav wanld crrarks mitthae the
Weees chy pam The write, dere wert
adware jotting Treshmen in aff ot
tay? tenor and respon ability, thoueh
trrequcith there are kreshmen capabl
enhoxal cCevier, at opening all ormaniza
or ote Hom, ton dae arvocate a rar
<tor tmt attitude fowaml the new men
+ dey Cette qh ran campus,

Teoma over Fre heen oo: ost
alm ine and ambrotherh. Heating the
Tre learn av reqninns: bint m de things
jit fecan y he is airard an the + ystem
neat he vec]. will brine down won him
Piatighnenk are distavur ti he reruses f,
nat Mie wax one Davids man shontd
trent sacothes and should he bencarl the
pPerlicipatwm af nen whe claim te we of
a toe Usat Davidian stands for beciere
Au werkt The Rroxliacn prio inst as
nach tor his veat'’s work as any other
nme and rrequvently more because the
pprerpuules Co make money are large
Ly lemcd to lim The Feeshman's prob
lem. ave geeater than any other man be
vauve he is iust learning college ways of
stndy ard lite and is awav from home
probably for the tirst time in his life,

Domination over Freshmen is injur-
‘ions. not physically here but to the
things the nian should come here to ac
‘complish. Freshman class work is with+
out question hard to nearly eyery man,
When he is disturbed in the evening and
night by beatings and prayer meetings.
when he is required to run errand after
ercand his time is taken from what his
parents are paving their money for him
to get. The Freshmen on our campus
are not given as fair a chance to make
goad as we uppereclassmen should help
them to have; Davidson has a distres-
singly large percentage of men to drop
Jout after starting here and a large part
of the trouble is due to the men not
being able to get started right.

_ Domination over the Freshmen is not
, the proper way to make a man of him

ale

per cla

first part of this purpose at least has been attained. Whether we have, (the noble PUFDOSE | which the upper:
realized the second is a matter for discussion. Of the fact that we have cassmen see the corleae auhoi reasons
taken great steps forward in some pticulars there can be no doubt, buts pe Grechne tne college ame orities an
have we not lagged behind in others, and if so where should the blame! Oi: res ect Pee i an upper.
be placed? This is a question which should receive the earnest atten-:°28S™a0 really thinks enough of a

tion of every man in college.

A year of eollege work has slipped by as ii it were only a few days.
For some of us it is the last to be spent at Davidson: for the rest there
remain one, two, or three years of life on the old campus. It is to this
latter class especially, that this editorial is directed, for it is you who
will make the history of Davidson during the next few years. Whether
we realize it or not, cach one of us has an important role to play in the
life of the college. Davidson must either be better or worse for our
sojourn here.

There are some who will argue that this is not a true statement
that the course of affairs here is determined by a few promient students

.

This, however, is not the case. However big a man or a body of men
may be, they can accomplish nothing without your support A leader
must have followers before he can accomplish anything. The at-

titude of the student body is almost always reflected in the actions of
its officers.

Last Sunday night witnessed the inauguration of a new
and cabinet of the Y.M.C. A. Within the next few days the newly
elected student body president and student council will take the oath of
office.. That these men are capable of leading us toward the attain-
ment of A Better Davidson has already been shown, else you would not
have selected them as your officers. The question is are they to have
their hands tied by a lack of support. or is the student body going to
back them im their efforts for the right. Is Davidson to be better or
worse next tr? The responsibility lies with you. What are you go-
ing to do about it?

president

yVreshman to want to help make’a man
:of him (and plenty of Freshmen need
‘such help), he can do this in many bet:
_ter and more lasting ways. He can make
‘him a better man physically by taking
thim for a run to the gullies or around
ithe track or teaching him tennis or tak-
ting him out for football or baseball or
to the gym. If he desires to make him a
better man morally and spiritually he
ean take him to the Sunday morning
Bible class or to the “¥” Service or to
the many other religious services avail-
able, and teaching him the errors of
improper conduct. If he desires to make
him a better man intellectually he can
show him how to study some of the col-
lege subjects and help to create proper
conditions for studying. If he desires
to increase his college spirit he can
show him what a real man Davidson
makes and can explain the principles for
which Davidson stands before the world.

The rising Soph class last spring took
action that they would refrain from haz-
ing. A number did refrain but another

(Continued on page 5)

|

SOUTHERN INTERCOLLEGIATE
NEWSPAPER ASS’N. FORMED

Representing their respective news-
preoens,.dolegares irom the leading col-
leges of the xouth convened last weck-
eid at Kicimemd. Va, and organized the
Sonthern =‘ Intercollegiate Newspaper
Jssociation. The convention was held
under the auspices of the "Callegiate.”
which w the weekly edition of the Uni-
versity ot Kiehmond. The “Davidson-
noi” was represented by Doubles.

Yhe ohject of the assuciation 4
draw the collegiate newspapers into
cJoser touch with cach other, and to
consene cach vear to discuss the prob-
loms which face the promotion of college
journahsm The northeastern colleves
have had such an organization for some
aime and it has proven a big asset. This
ty the frst attempt to organize colleges
throughout the south, and trom the en
thitstastic beginning. prospects for a
glowing suceess along journalistic lines
ave indeed bright

The tirst event of the opening day.
Fridw, 224. was the cleetion of a tem-
porary chaicman. Mr. Leck. Echtor.in-
Ciner ot the ‘Collegiate’ of Universi
a! Kichinond, was cleored. Mr Leek was
the prime tactor m gerting the delegates
trem all over the south together. undor
tive atlepices of his paper. Mr. Winn, of
Ure © OP, pnblication wis elected
clark of che convention.

fi fToarwmeht ot the Uniersity ut
Pichsiond delivered the andecs, of wel
cone ant sects responded tg lie Mr. Par
elro of din “Lopes.” the Uneversiy ot
Norminin periodical The commitues-
UrrOsHIy ty carry ont the work of the
eamendon weer thet appointed Mii
Cotton ot Ichay Plopiians wo aomintcd
tigirman of the cométee on orvauiwzas
for Mir. Doubles, of Davidson was ap
poor cd arin Ae PPeseeemenittec cn
Honda rions

My Inte Stewart Bryan, srererarv of
Qe Nmeriean) Newspaper Pohblshers
Msonclaltion defivered the openme ad
dios, at the convention Fhs talk een
tcred around the taci that the news
paper was the ereatest source of pats
hetiy in the world, aid the editors of
tera pridlications heid the reins ot
febire sontiment in their bands

Following this addross, there wasea
round table discussion convornme the
business departments of colfcre news
papers. For an hour, such discussions
as the securing of advertisentents, the
oxtension of cirenlation., the orraniza
fon of business departments, cte., were
indulged in bv the delegates.

The worming session adjonmed. ani
the delegates amlted across the spacious
Umversity of Richmond campus and
euided their steps toward the West
hampton Woman's College, where a re
freshing huncheon was served by the
stndents of that insctution.

During the afternoon, an automobite
tour of Richmond was taken. Chief
aniong the incidents on this, was the in
spection of a press in action. The dele:
rates had the pleasure of watehing the
Tunes-Dispatch run off its afternoon
edition.

Even though the Gods of Aqua threat
ened to pour forth in all their violence,
the several scores of delegates assem:
bled around the festive board Friday
night at the bangnet. After a delightiul
pursuit of the delicious food. those pres-
ent had the pleasure of hearing two
most efficient journalists and speakers
Dr. John W. Cunliite, direetor of the
Columbia School of Journalism. pre-
sented journatism irom its theoretical
viewpoint Following him was Dr
Douglas Freeman. editor of: the News-
Leader, and premier journalist and
orator in the Stare of Virginia. He
dealt with the practical side of journal-
ism, and expressed his view that the eol.
lege newspapers were bringing up the
type of editors that the city newspaper}
has long needed, :

The second day's program opened a:
Spirited talk by Frank M. Dobson, noted ;
coach of the University af Richmond.:
> Coach Dobson praised the work of the:
college publications and told how they. |
tand only they, were responsible for put-
iting the college athletic teams into the:
;Prominet place which they should holdi
lin sportdom. He also cautioned sport
‘writers, that before attempting to write-
up a contest of any kind, they should
know the inside working of that sport. |

This day’s round table discussion
dealt with the paper. editorially and
technically. Problems concerning the
style of editorials, the type of headlines,
the heading of departments, advantage
of cuts, ets. were discussed in detail.

(Continued on page s)

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Why Not Think?
Iris a Tittle thing te do.
dust vo think.
Anyone, no matter who,
Oughe to think.
Jake a litle time each day
Krom the minntes thrown away,
Spare wt rrom your work or play,
Stop and think!
Yon will ond the nen who fail
Do not think!
Men who tind themselves in jail
Do not think.
Ilalt the trouble that we sees
Trouble brewed for yon and me.
Probably would never be,
li we'd think!
Shall we journey hit coremis-.
Or shall we think?
Thetis nat co along by gues<,
Trut rather to ourselves coniess.
ft wonld help ns more on less
ft we'd dank TR.
Versa und Yule nee tea dealare a
jeer ammpae Jone wimugh te perniit
awe tm ten at Cranvon aud [lue
place: te inert a consburation fron the
hogh ic Eeaceusiwes oof Oxtord and
Cumbridae tee bengweed Cricket
Chub, Trowel. Gada Qand s. leo de
lerenne of Fin umal, par-ident of the

at

vtercaltoanda: Jenne Vee. ration and
eh Grmneon leader, eal captain the
Amencuti beam

Vhe ba ctu! rams: of Wasa. Uni

weTsity, Ingan, has arranged the great:
est taur of \imeican moversizies that a
lapioiose rome lis oyer taken Vhe rein
will aresve an San lrausisen on April
awht and rour tke comntr, meatine both
Warvard aud Yale At present the squid
% wetung inte shape in Tlawait

ft Naremia Dare with eves of Moun.
tan Dew and bear of Galden Glory
should pia Three Feathets im her har,
and Four Roses in ber belt. and shonbl
run like Whire Lightnine down throngh
the hold of Golden River rve to get a
Glue kilbon for ker Old kentucky Corn,
would Dudweiser? Kh. W. ‘20. N.C 0

The Press Congress of the World js to
mect in Honotulu October 4-13. met. The
ecstors of the provinee are showing
nuch interest in it. W. I. Farrington,
‘ut, oF the Honolutu: Star Bulletin is
chairman of the general congress com-
mittee on pregeam and enrertainment.

Gleeful Co-Eds Seek to Vamp Poor
Fresh.

A new thing will soon appear “under
the Chanel Hill sun? as the girls, or in
ether words the Co-Fus of this institu.
lion are going to organize a glee club.
The initial members met last Tuesday
night. April sth, for the purpose of or
ranizing the club The idea is to get to-
gether and learn some short conrses
and to make at least one public appear-
ance this year, After the organization
has heen completed as tar as possible
and some practice has bocn had the club
plans to endeavor to entertain the
Breshinen, i. e. gentlemen of the first
year class, in chapel some lazy spring
morning when the student committee in
charge of chapel arrangements finds
that convenient.

li vow don’t feel just tight.

Té you can't sleep at night.

Hf you moan and sigh.

If your throat is dry,

Ti yon can't smoke or drink,

li your grub tastes like ink.

li your heart doesnit beat.

Ti you've got cold feet,

Tf your head's in a whirl.—-

Why don't you marry the girl?

—Tiger.

Only one per cent of American men

{are college graduates, yet from this one

ber cent have come 55 per cent of our
Presidengs ; 69 per cent of the justices of
our Supreme Court: 54 per cent our
Vice-Presidents: 62 per cent of our Sec.
retaries of State; something like 90 per
cent of our ministers, and most of our
scientists, philosophers, and statesmen.
So in all nations. it is the highly trained
men who really shape the destines of
nations, because they point the way in
which the people follow.

—The New Era.
