MR. J. M. WILLIAMSON,
OF GRAHAM, DEAD

Davidson Man Long Prominent in
Cotton Mill Industry of This State.

A message received recently announc-
ed the death of Mr. James N. William-
son, Sr., well known citizen of Graham,
Alamance county. Mr. Williamson was
an only brother of the late Mr. T. F.
Williamson, of Winston-Salem, and an
uncle of Mesdames Martin D. Wood
and Walter R. Leake and Mr. R. L.
Williamson, of Winston-Salem; Mrs.
John C. Anderson, of Bristol, Tenn., and
Mr. Charles H. Williamson, of Charlotte.

Mr. Williamson was one of the most
prominent and best loved citizens of
‘Alamance county. As a boy of. tender
years he bore arms in the Confederate
army, serving faithfully and gallantly as
a soldier and an officer. Following the
war he began the manufacture of cotton
and during his life was associated with
many of the leading textite manufactur-
ers of the state and nation. While he
was never known in public affairs he
was keenly interested in all matters
affecting the progress of his home com-
munity and county and in the state at
large, and by efficient and careful man-
agement of his business rendered a real
service to his state in the development
of its resources.

The deceased was 79 years old. He
was born at Locust Hill, in Caswell
county, March 8, 1842. His father,
Thomas Williamson, was a large planta-
tion owner and operator and prominent
merchant of his day. He received his
early education principally from his
mother, of Scotch-Irish descent, maiden
name Frances Panel Banks Farish. He
prepared for college at the school con-
ducted by Alexander Wilson, in Ala-
mance, then one of the best schools of
its kind in the state. From there he en-
tered Davidson College.

In May 1861, he enlisted as a private in
Co. A, 3d Regiment N. C. Volunteers, the
first company from Caswell county. He
was wounded while attached to Pender’s
Brigade at Chancellorsville, and also at
Gettysburg and at the Wilderness being
promoted to first lieutenant after that
battle. He was in the trenches with Lee
at Petersburg and was captain of his
company when parolled at Appomattox.

Captain Williamson returned home
and applied himself to restoring his
father's farm. He later married Miss
Holt, of Graham, and at the suggestion
of her father, Mr. E. M. Holt, they mov-
ed to Graham and became interested in
cotton manufacture with M. E. Holt’s
Sons, operators of the Alamance Cotton
Mills. While continuing his farming
activities he contributed materially to
the development of textiles in the state.
Other mills established at intervals and
in which he has retained a large interest
are the Carolina Mills, at Haw River, the
Ossipee Cotton Mills in Alamance, con-
ducted by James N. Williamson & Sons;
and the Pilot Cotton Mills at Raleigh.

—____ pp —__
ALUMNI ON HILL.

In addition to the many “fires” and
other visitors on the hill for Junior
Speaking we were glad to have with us
quite a few of our alumni, among whom
were the following:

D. R. Alexander.

C. H. Barringer, ex-’23, of Charlotte.

N. Ed. Bradshaw, ex-’19, of Concord.

Frank L. Brown.

W. L. Campbell, ex-'23, of Norwood.

Ted Cashion, ‘17, of Davidson.

Geo. S. Crouch, '18, of Charlotte.

Cecil (Pat) Gilchrist, ex-'22, of Char-
lotte.

W. Frank Hall, ’20, of Statesville.

R. Dave Hall, '19, of Belmont.

W. M. Hall, ‘19, of Belmont.

‘which he has spent it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

HERE AND THERE
AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Rev. A. A. McGeachy, ‘91, pastor of the
Second Presbyterian Church of Char-
lotte, and Alexander Martin, D.D., ’95,
pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presby-.
terian Church of Rock Hill, were on the
program of the Deacons’ Convention of
Kings Mountain Presbytery, held last
week in Gastonia.

H. T. Mills, ‘06, is in charge of regis-
tration of the Laymen’s Convention at
Greenville, S. C.

C. L. Crane, ‘07, has recently returned
from Africa an furlough.

manufacturer of Greenville, S. C. and
founder of the J. D. Woodside Student
Loan Fund at Davidson, has recently
founded several scholarships at the
Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

Cc. C. Beam, ‘o9, has recently been em-
ployed by the First Presbyterian Church
in Charlotte as church secretary.
D—————

WM. FRANKLIN CARTER

HAS TAKEN PROMINENT
PLACE IN NORTH CAROLINA

J. D. Woodside, ’98. a prominent cotton

Graduating in the Class of '76; He||
Began the Practice of Law in '79
—Has Sent Four Sons to David-
son.

William Franklin Carter, '76, was born
in Rockingham County, N. C., in 1857.
He entered Davidson College in 1872 and
received his A.B. degree in 1876 at the
early age of 19.

The fall after leaving Davidson he was
honored by being elected principal of
the Male Academy at Wentworth, N. C.
His predecessors in this office were men
of such distinction as Gov. A. M. Scales
and Judge W.'N. Mebane. At the end
of his first year he was re-elected as
principal, but gave up the position in
order to study law, in which he had be-
come very much interested while attend-
ing court. .

During the winter of 1878 he went to
Mt. Airy, ever since his home, and took
a law course under Judge Jesse F.
Graves. He acted as tutor to the
Judge’s children, being well qualified
for the position. This arrangement con-
tinued until January, 1879, when he was
awarded a license to practice law.

He hung out his shingle in Mt. Airy
and began his professional career there.
Clients came slowly at first, as is always
the case with young lawyers. The strug-
gle has continued through 35 years, and
by unceasing toil and diligent applica-
tion he has attained marked distinction
in his profession.

Mr. Carter was mayor of his city for
four years and chairman of the Board
of School Commissioners for 14 years.

In December, 1884, he married Miss
Annie Hollingsworth, youngest daugh-
ter of Dr. Joseph Hollingsworth, a most
eminent physician. There has been born
to them eight children. Three of his]:
sons have completed their courses at
Davidson and one is a student there
now; so he has done his full duty to his
alma mater.

Mr. Carter united with the church 35
years ago and was made elder soon aft-
erward. Twenty-eight years ago he was
made superintendent of the Sunday
School. ;

Davidson is proud of this alumnus
whose life has been an honor to his
profession and to the community in

——_— DJ
Child study from the standpoint of the

GEORGE WATTS DEAD.

Vice-President Board of Trus-
tees and Largest North
Carolina Tax Payer.

George Washington Watts. 70,
North Carolina's largest tax payer,

died at his home in Durham at.

10:15 o'clock Monday.

His death was due to cancer of
the stomach. Although not unex-
pected, Mr. Watt’s death came as
a distinct shock to the people of
North Carolina. who for several
weeks have watched with intense
interest every cffort of specialists,
surgeons and physicians to save
his life.

The deceased has been in ill
health for the past two years.
Early last year he went to a hos-
pital in Baltimore in the hope of
permanent recovery. Several oper-
ations were performed upon him.

In mid-summer he returned to
his home from Baltimore greatly
improved. Physicians advised
him to take a trip abroad.
Accepting the advice, Mr. Watts
traveled for two months in Eu-
rope, spending a majority of the
time in the orient, where he has
invested more than $1,000,000 in
foreign missionary work. Return-
ing late in 19%0 to his home.
Mr. Watts seemed to be enjoying
better health.

It was for less than two weeks,
however, his illness returned upon
him with renewed effectiveness,
and although medical men made
every known attempt to restore
him to health, he slowly succumb-
ed. For several weeks the deceas-
ed has been kept alive through the
use of blood transfusion opera-
tions; the physicians were plan-
ning for another operation. Mr.
Watts déed, however, before the
operation could be undertaken.

He has ever been a faithful
friend to Davidson College and
other needy educational institu-
tions. It was largely through his
efforts that Union Theological
Seminary was moved to Richmond
and so thoroughly equipped.
Mr. Watts has given more to Da-
vidson than any other one man.
Besides his frequent contributions
here he gave Watts dormitory not
many years ago, and a_ hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) recent-
ly in the educational campaign for
schools and colleges of the State.

Through the death of Mr. Watts
North Carolina loses her largest
individual tax payer and wealth-
iest citizen. Although the value of
his estate is not definitely known,
it is known that far years he has
been by far the largest tax payer
in Durham, a city of big corpora-
tions; he is rated third largest tax
payer, only two large tobacco cor-
porations being listed ahead of
him.

The funeral was held at the resi-
dence on Duke street Wednesday
afternoon.

Dr. David H. Scanlon, pastor of
the Durham First Presbyterian
Church, assisted by Dr. W. W.
Moore, of the Union Theological
Seminary, and Dr. E. R. Leyburn,
of Rome, Ga., a former pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of
Durham, having charge. Interment
was in Maplewood cemetery.

Mr. Watts is survived by his
wife and one daughter, Mrs. John
Sprunt Hill, of Durham.

THE ANTI-ALCOHOL

JOHN MAXWELL HARDEN
SITUATION IN EUROPE

DIES OF PNEUMONIA

Young Davidson Alumnus Is Mourn-
ed by Many Friends Here and
ere.

College “Dry” Returns After Tour-
ing Universities of Europe Eight
Months and Reports Increasing
Activity on the Part of Students
in the Anti-Alcohol Movement.

John Maxwell (Jack) Harden, ‘10, died
at his home in Rome, Ga., on Sunday,
February 2oth, after a two weeks’ illness
of pneumonia. Jack came to Davidson
from Abbeville, S. C., in the fall of 1906.
He was prominent in the literary and
athletic life of the college during his
four years’ stay. He was an editor of
both the Magazine and Quips and
Cranks, and was the author of numer-
ous stories and poems. He was a mem-
ber of his class team in football, base-
ball_ and basketball.

After ' graduating with honors, he
taught school for one year in Selma, Ala.
The following two years he spent as in-
structor in the Peacock-Fleet School in
Atlanta. In the fall of 1913 he went to
Rome, where for five years he was ath-
letic director and instructor in the Dar-
lington School for Boys. He was then
promoted to the position of head imas-
ter of this school. After serving for
two years in this capacity he resigned to
enter business, and at the time of his
death he was the traveling representa-
tive of the Fulton Supply Company, of
Atlanta.

In t915 he married Miss Margaret
Evans, of Abbeville. S.C. He is surviv-
ed by his wife and two small children.
The body was taken to Abbeville for in-
terment.

Jack Harden was known and loved -by
everyone in Rome. His life there, as
elsewhere, has been devoted to service
to his fellowman, and Rome has suf-
fered a distinct loss in his death. He
was an earnest Christian, and though
only 32 years of age, had already been
ordained an elder in the First Presby-
terian Church. He was also a Rotarian,
and was prominent in social and civic
affairs in Rome.

————— DD —_—______

TOWN NEWS.

“European opihion is one of great sur-
prise concerning America’s attitude
toward ptohibition. The majority can-
not grasp it.” Thus Mr. Harry S. War-
ner, General Secretary of the Intercol-
legiate Prohibition Association, summar-
ized the European attitude upon his very
recent arrival in the United States. Mr.
Warner has just returned from an eight
months’ tour of ten European countries
where he studied the alcohol situation,
and visited the various university stu-
dent anti-alcohol organizations.

Every country visited has one or more
student niovements directed against al-
cohol. These are increasing in mem-
bership and some are making large prog-
ress towards arousing public opinion in
the matter. Some of these organiza-
tions lay the emphasis on creating a
student social life of a thoroughly en-
joyable sort which shall be free from
drinking customs and traditions. Others
merely encourage the matter of personal
abstinence. A third classification of such
student bodies are those who study the
problem in its broad economic and so-
cial aspects with a view of getting a
comprehensive understanding of the
question. A few such groups take part
in active propaganda and political move-
ments for legal prohibition.

That the students were eager to get
at the facts of the matter was indi-
cated, according to Mr. Warner, by a
meeting at King’s College. There the
Students who had “ragged” “Pussyfoot”
Johnson, were anxious to make amends
and in a prohibition debate gave close
attention, took part in a general discus-
sion, and were insistent for an Amer-
ican speaker.

When questioned regarding his own
kidnapping at Sheffield University, Mr.
Warner laughed and said it was a very
enjoyable student prank.

In interviewing the leaders of Euro-
pean industries and intellectual improve-
ments, Mr. Warner declared that the
great opinion was that if America en-
forced prohibition for a period of three
years, it would have a dynamic influence
toward furthering the progress of the
prohibition movement throughout that
continent. e

D——____

“The closing of saloons is sendiag
many young’ people to college.” Thus
declared William Jennings Bryan in a
recent interview with a reporter for the
Ohio State University Lantern. “Five
years ago we spent three times as much
money on intoxicating liquors as we did
on education. A part of that money at
least has been diverted to educational
channels. Five years ago less than ten
per cent of all the pupils in the com-
mon grades entered high school, and not
over two per cent ever went to college.
If only four per cent now go to college,
we can see why the university halls are
filled to overflowing.”

“Remedies never come until after the
disease,” declared Mr. Bryan in regard
to the inability of educational institu-
tions to handle properly the vast num-
bers which come to them. “We may feel
sure that thinking people will not see
our colleges and universities decline for
lack of funds or on account of antiquat-
ed systems of education. One proposed
remedy is the establishment of junior
colleges to take care of those just start-
ing to college. Another is the extension
of high school to make it cover the first
two years of the college course. There

Miss Julia Johnson gave an informal
tea last Wednesday afternoon in honor
of her sister-in-law, Mrs. Patrick John-
son. Mrs. Johnson leaves in a few weeks
to join her husband in Turkey.

Mrs. L. B. McCoy, of Charlotte, spent
the weck-end with Misses Mary and Liz-
zie Young.

Miss Kalista Hood spent the week-end
with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Hood.

Mrs. John Moore and Miss Cornelia
Shaw left Tuesday morning for Green-
ville to attend the Laymen’s Missionary
Convention.

‘Miss Maftha Hamilton, of Davidson,
was elected on March 3d as Secretary
of the Y. W. C. A. at North Carolina Col-
lege for Women, Greensboro.

D———__
NOT SUCH A LARGE PLACE.

It seemed that when Rastus and Sam
ched they took different routes, so when
the latter got to heaven he called Ras-
tus on the ‘phone.

“Rastus,” he said, “how do yo’ like it
down thar?”

“Oh, boy! Dis here am some place.”
replied Rastus. “All we has ter do is to
wear a red suit wid horns, an’ every now
an’ den shovel some coal on de fire. We
don't work no more dan two hours out
ob de twenty-four down here. But tell
me, Sam, how is it with you up yonder?”

“Mah goodness! We has to git up at
fo’ o'clock in de mownin' an’ gatah in de
stahs; den we has to haul in de moon

J. R. Jones, ex-'17, of Sanford.
R. C. Klontz, of Columbia Seminary.

. “Jimmie” McQueen, ex-’20, of Dillon.
E. P. Nesbett, ‘17, of Charlotte.
“Friend” Wilson, ‘20, of Gastonia.

J. G. Sloan, ex-'22, of Aberdeen.
“Prep” Hall, '20, was on the Hill last
week with his basketeers.

is a growing tendency in favor of the
extension of high school work in this
manner, and, if it is adopted, twice the
present number of students can finish
their education at college without mak-
ing the colleges any larger than they
are today.”

Students at Baylor University, Texas,
cannot have a vote in the Student Gov-
ernment Association unless they pay a
poll tax and have receipt to show. The
income thus derived is spent in booster
activities carried on by the Student As-
sociation.

mother is the subject of a course of-
fered by the State College for Women
of Texas. The course consists of lec-
tures, library readings and psychologi-
cal laboratory work, intended to fit the
young woman to be mistrees of a home
and mother of a family. .

and hang out de sun. Den we has ter
roll de clouds aroun’ all day long.”
“But, Sam, how comes it yo’ has ter
work so hard?”
“Well, to tell de truf, Rastus, we’s kin’
o° short of help up here.”—Ex.

