THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

HERE AND THERE
AMONG THE ALUMNI

F. S. Justice, ex-'23, is located in the
drug business with his father in Hender-
sonville, N. C.

Bingham McKee, '18, is still at Bing-
ham’s School, in Asheville.

A. C. Wood, '20, better known as “At”
to baseball and basketball enthusiasts, is
now in the lumber business at Asheville,
N.C.

It was with great happiness and pride
that news was recently received that
Jamie Fowle, '18, had been awarded the
Hoge Scholarship at Union Theological
Seminary. This is the highest honor
given a candidate for degree at Union.

Roy Perry, ’16, who is now working
with Parks-Cramer Company, in Char-
lotte, was on the hill last week. He has
a baby girl three weeks old, of which he
is very proud.

A. J. McCuen, ex-'22, is now teaching
school at Mint Hill, N. C.

R. D. (Dove) Hall, 18, was a welcom-
ed visitor on the hill last week.

Mr. Murray, father of A. J. Murray,
‘24, spent the week-end with his son.

Dr. James P. Matheson, '99, who spent
a year in France with the Base Hospital
No. 6, will revisit France this summer
to see how the country has progressed
in its reconstruction work. Dr. Mathe-
son was a major in the Medical Depart-
ment. ”

Rev. B. Frank Pim, '14, of Jonesboro,
Ga., with Mrs. Pim, spent Wednesday at
Davidson.

M. R. Long, ex-’10, is making during
the current month an exhibition of 33
oil paintings and pastels at Raleigh, N.
C. The exhibition is under the auspices
of the Art Department of the Women’s
Club.

Rev. Thos. H. Watkins, ’98, is Synodi-
cal Evangelist in Arkansas.

Messrs. Graham McDonald, '18; M. A.
Siske, ’20, and G. F. Weber, ex-'18, are
combining work with the Goodrich Com-
pany and studies at the University of
Akron, Ohio. Mr. Weber entered a Se-
nior oratorical contest recently, winning
the honors and $40 in gold.

Carl Cathey, ‘20, who is engaged in
bridge construction work in Robeson
County, spent the week-end at David-
‘son with his parents.
p————__

GUILFORD COLLEGE
BEGINS CONTESTS
AMONG COUNTY CLUBS

(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Guilford College, Feb. 5-—-The continu-
ation committee of the County Clubs
met Saturday morning, February sth, in
the office of President Binford to dis-
cuss the awarding of prizes to the win-
ners in the contest among the students
for the one who writes the best repre-
sentative story of the good qualities of
Guilford. The first prize is to be ten
dollars. The second, five dollars. The
ten one dollar prizes will be given for
the next best stories. The County Club
which has the highest percentage of
papers will receive five dollars. These
papers are to be in the president’s office
by 9 o'clock February 21st. This com-
mittee decided that to carry on the work
more efficiently among the different
county clubs it would be best to organ-
ize a federation of the clubs with two
representatives from each county club.

During the past semester the college
purchased a moving picture machine,
also a stereopticon. These machines add
a great deal to the regular Lyceum
Course given each year.

a
a

..|DR. WM. ALPHONSO WITHERS. | DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB

'

a
DAVIDSON HEARS WITH
REGRET OF
DR. HEPBURN’S DEATH

Was First Professor and Then Pres-
ident of This Institution in the ‘70's.

me

Press dispatches told this, week of the
death on Monday, February toth,°at his
home in Ohio, of Rev. Dr. A. D. Hep-
burn, for a number of years first a pro-
fessor and then president of Davidson
College, both of which offices he filled
with marked distinction and acceptabil-
ity to students and trustees alike.

Dr. Hepburn was born in 1830 and
was therefore in his 91st year. For some
time past his eyesight had been very
poor, but -his mind, it appears, remained
clear practically to the end.

His life and work at Davidson is re-
called here very viyidly and most pleas-
anly by the older members of the pres-
ent faculty and by the people of David-
son, the latter knowing him best pos-
sibly in an official capacity as preacher
in the college chapel or church.

He came to Davidson as Professor of
Rhetoric and Logic in 1874 and contin-
ued his work as professor through ‘8s.
He was elected to the presidency in ‘77.

His work as a teacher and preacher
was marked by fine scholarship and all
the other graces that naturally accom-
pany this in a person of refined and cul-
tured tastes and earnest Christian char-
acter.

He was a man that left his impress
upon all who came within the fange of
his influence and was regarded by his
students as the very prince of teachers
and lecturers.

He was the author of a Rhetoric and
illustrated in his lectures, in his ser-
mons and in all of his literary work how
admirably fitted he was for its com-
position and for the exposition in the
class room and on the platform of its
rules. ;

Dr. Hepburn is survived by his wife,
who was a daughter of the late Dr. Mc-
Guffie, of the University of Virginia; by
his only daughter, Miss Etta Hepburn,
and by his son, Dr. Charles M. Hepburn,
who is a man of note both as an author
and lecturer in law and in matters of
public polity.

—_—__—_ D—_____
PLANS FOR GREATER
TECH UNDER WAY

Pians are now well under way for the
Great Tech Campaign (Ga.) to be con-
ducted April 20th to 30th, and encourag-
ing reports of progress are received al-
most daily. Last week pledges of a
million and a half dollars were announc-
ed toward a five million dollar goal
which has been set. Business men of
New York, headed by Ivy Lee, have
agreed to provide a million dollars if
Georgia will raise the remainder—The
Technique.

“God must love flunkers—He made so
many of them."—Ex.

| Has Held Many Positions of Honor

in Both Educational and Business
Activities.

The subject of this sketch was born
at River View (near Davidson), N. C.,
May 31, 1864. He was the. son of Wil-
liam B. and Sarah L. Withers, and spent
most of the earlier years of his life in
this vicinity with them. In 1879, when
but 15 years old, he entered Davidson
College, from which institution he grad-
uated with the A.B. degree in 1883. Two
years later he received his M.A. degree
from Davidson, and was a fellow in
chemistry ‘at Cornell University, 1889-90.

On June 11, 1886, he married: Elizabeth
Daniel, of Raleigh, N. C. She died Au-
gust ‘20, 1905, and he was married the
second time to Miss Pescud, of the same
city, July 29, 1909. He was assistant
chemist, 1884-88, chemist since 1897, and
acting director, 1897-99, at N. C. Agri-
cultural Experiment Station. He was
Professor of Chemistry, 1889, vice-pres-
ident, 1916, and director summer school
1917, at N. C. State College of Agricul-
ture and Enginecring.

Dr. Withers has not only been a leader
in the educational world, so to speak,
but has always been at the forefront in
all business activities of the Capital City
and of the whole State. He has been
first vice-president City Bank of Ral-
eigh since 1917; State Chemist of N. C.
1897-98; a member of the executive com-
mittee National Pure Food and Drug
Congress of 1898, and of N. C. Agricul-
tural Society 1898. He was author of N.
C. pure food law 1899, and chairman of
committee on pure food legislation of
American Agricultural Colleges and Ex-
periment Stations from 1899 to 1903. He
was president of N. C. Section of Amer-
ican Chemical Society 1901-02. He is a
member of the Society of Chemical In-
dustry, N. C. Academic Sciences, N. C.
Literary and Historical Society, Chi Phi,
Sigmaxi, and Alpha Chi Sigma fra-
ternities.

He was a director in Chamber of Com-
merce, Raleigh, N. C., 1915-18, Y¥. M. C. A.
of that city 1914, a member of N. C.
Council of Defence 1917, a member of
the executive committce of local chap-
ter American Red Cross. Dr. Withers is
a Democrat, Rotary (President 1917-18),
Presbyterian, member of N.C. S. S. As-
sociation 1914, Grand Commander K. T.
of N. C. 1896, Grand High Priest R. A.
M. 1897.

These are just a few of the many
honors and positions that this great
alumnus of Davidson has attained. He
is one of our best, and his Alma Mater
is proud of him. .Davidson wishes she
had many more such characters to call
son.

D—_—

RECEPTION GIVEN
DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB

(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)
Queens College (Submitted by Queens
Blues)—The Davidson Glee Club is to
give a concert at Queens on Monday
night, February 14th. After the pro-
gram a reception will be given in Bur-
well Hall to the members of the club.

Student government is pending at
Queens. The question is now in the
hands of a faculty-student committee
elected by the student body. As this is
felt to be a progressive step for the
college, the entire student body is an-
xiously awaiting the report of the com-
mittee.

Miss Elizabeth Bailey, of Crossnore,
N. C, gave an interesting talk at Queens
on Tuesday night, February 8th. She
pictured the illiterate condition of the
people in the mountains of North Caro-
lina and asked that old clothes be sent
to Crossnore. ‘These will be sold and
the proceeds used to carry on the edu-
cational work in that section.

PERFORMS AT SALEM
Salemite Moves Into New Quarters.

(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Salem College, Feb. 21—The Easter
spirit is being keenly felt at Salem in
the form of “Lenten Organ Recitals”
given each Thursday afternoon in Me-
morial Hall by Dean Shirley. and as-
sistants. It has long been the custom to
have these recitals, and they are looked
forward to each year by people of the
entire community as well as many who
come from nearby towns.

“The Salemite” has recently caught
the spirit of spring as well as the “wan-
der lust.” Consequently “it” has wan-
dered in to new quarters which have
been cleaned, pressed, and dyed in honor
of their new occupants and are now
ready for use. Amid such cleanly in-
spiring surroundings we expect great
achievements on the part 4 the literary
editors—so keep your eyes open and
follow closely the contents of the
“Salemite !”

Quite a treat to the people of Win-
ston-Salem and to Salem girls was the
concert given by the Davidosn College
Glee Club on Tuesday night, February
15th. The numbers were well selected
and showed good training combined
with remarkable talent. The program
was nothing if not varied, ranging from
“near classical” musical selections to the
jazziest of modern jazz; from acrobatic
exhibitons to the most comical minstrel
act. The Junior class, which was in-
strumental in getting the Glee Club to
visit Salem, feels fully repaid and
wishes to extend to the boys a cordial
invitation to return next year.

pp —____—
SCREEN VERSION OF

“THE JUCKLINS”
SEEN HERE LAST SATURDAY

Last year the students of Davidson
had the pleasure of hearing the novelist,
Opie Reed, deliver a lecture at Shearer
Hall. Mr. Reed was then lecturing for
the Redpath Lyceum Course. Last Sat-
urday night we had the pleasure of see-
ing one of Mr. Reed's novels pictured on
the screen.

The play begins by showing the mod-
est abode of the Jucklins, situated in
—— County, N.C. Mr. Jucklin, whose
favorite pastime is “fighting roosters,”
much to the disgust of Mrs. Jucklin, is
an “honest to goodness” North Caro-
linian. His daughter, Guinea, is engaged
to a member of one of the richest fam-
ilies in the Carolinas, the Langsfords.
Alf, the son, is in love with Millie, also
a Langsford, but due td his station in
life he seems to have no chance. Millie
is also engaged to Dan Stuart, another
“hound,” against her wishes.

The appearance of Monte Blue as Bill
Hawes, a teacher from Alabama, causes
much excitement in scholastic affairs.
Suffice it is to say that the school has
had but four teachers in four months
and hopes to get rid of the new teacher
as quickly. However, he conquers the
boys in many encounters and his life is
threatened. Guinea, endangering her
life, brings the sheriff and they capture
the Ames family, who were bent on kill-
ing the new teacher.

Dan Stuart has insulted Millie Langs-
ford in Alf’s presence. Alf, vowing ven-
geance, kills him and is put in prison.
The coroner's inquest proves that Dan
died from heart failure. Due to this
Langsford breaks his engagement with
Guinea, much to her happiness.

Millie, who was always in love with
Alf, surrenders to him, and Guinea “tees
to the arms” of the school teacher. Mr
Jucklin pits his roosters in a “fight to
the death” and buries them in Mrs. Juck-
lin’s best lace curtains.

——_ D—__—__—_.

J. D. Coxe, ex-'23, of Red Springs.

spent the week-end on the hill.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Louis Price, of West Virginia.
has been visiting her daughter, Mrs. W.
W. Wood.

Miss Sarah Jones, from Winthrop Col- |
lege, has been visiting Dr. and Mrs. J.
M. McConnell.

Ladies of the faculty entertained on
Tuesday evening after the band concert
in honor of the band. Dr. Wilson Me-
Connell was the representative of the
faculty, while Major Hearn represented
the R. O. T. C.

Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood spent the
week-end with relatives in Salisbury.

Miss Margaret Overton, of Salisbury,
was a visitor on the hill last week-end.

Misses Elizabeth McLure, Polly Dun-
lap, Louise McFadden and Grace James,
from Winthrop College, were guests of
Prof. J. L. Douglas last week.

J. D. Coxe, ex-'23, of Red Springs, N.
C., was a visitor on the hill for several
days last week.

Cart Cathey, ‘20, is spending a few
days at Davidson, visiting his parents.

The college was represented at the In-
firmary last week by McCallum, A. S.;
Bradley, H. S.; Hersey, R. J.; McCloy,
J. D.: Lake, W. J.; Gentry, E. T., and
Gaston, J. M.

Dunbar Ogden spent the week-end in
Charlotte with friends and had an oper-
ation performed on his shoulder. Other
visitors to the metropolic were J. C.
Wool, Grady Brown and Z. V. Brad-
ford.

F. W. Smith, '22, spent several days
in Davidson, returning to his home in
Mooresville Saturday afternoon. He
promises us another visit soon.

Taflor, J. P.; Nash, E. A. and Davis,
S. M., spent the week-end in Winston-
Salem, Nash and Taylor visiting their

parents, Davis visiting some friends.
a

EXCHANGES

(Continued from page 4)
tional Chicken Fanciers Convention. We
aren't acquainted with the object of this
organization, but if they deal with the
kind of chickens we have in mind, we
certainly would like to rate in on that
judging contest —Old Gold and Black.

The old-fashioned girt used to stay at
home when she had nothing to wear.—
Ex.

How doth the gentle laundress,
Search out the weakest points,
And always scrape the buttons off,
At the most strategic points.
—Ex.

WOTTA BREAK, WOTTA BREAK!

Jinks and Jenks met for the first time
in years. After falling upon each other’s
necks and chorusing the usual “Howzza-
boys?” Jinks undertook to be polite and
conversational.

“And how.” he inquired with a show
of interest, “is Mrs. Jenks standing the
heat?”

Jenks regarded him suspiciously.

“How'd you know she was dead?” he
demanded.—Am. Legion Weekly.

“ Chrvgssaerneuenalfinajunjuarisigue -
jack” is Eskimo for “I love you,” and at
the same time is a reasonable explana-
tion of why the Arctic nights have to be
so long.—Ex. .

“How cheering it is to see a $4 pair
of shoes marked down 'from $20 to

$17.98.”
