2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

Athletic News Large Squad of Track

Men Now Practic-
Speaking of Sports [°F EXsy vicrory OVER

LARGE NUMBER OF MEN [ree of excellence. Their Tuneful syn-

— ‘copations, pleasing harmonies and side
(Continued from page 1) ibursting comedy sketches all found their
things begin to move as smoothly as' appropriate appreciation in the hearts
they have started. Crawford and Shep-| of the ardent listeners.
ard, two of last year’s fielders are out| Kig “Jap,” the Jazz orchestra, the
and will be found fighting hard for their] andolin and guitar equally did their
respective fields. part in bringing the performance over

ing Hard
Many Promising New Men Furnishing

OCAL SCH eae " The infielders have just been called out |i, well rounded style. The entire pro-
Revenge is Sweet: 55 to 11. L HIGH COL Keen Competition for Six of and there has not been time to see WhO! gram was full of the uld Davidson pep
The Wildcats literally ran around the| Op Saturday, the 26th, the Davidson Last Year’s Veterans will most likely land berths around the|and melody. After the concert, the club

diamond. However, Eris Cassell will be | wended their way back to “the hill.”
fighting all opposition around the hot
corner. “Frog” Cassell, who so ably held
the short-stop position will not be here Extablished 1678
this spring, thereby leaving “Mac” Er-
win and “Billy” Hodgin strong contend- A. Bl. Felting Mannfactering
ers for this opening. “Pee-Wee” Ratch-
ford has already stated that the man Jewelry Co.
who beats him out of the mid-way posi-
tion is going to work mighty hard. Mensfacturers
“Doug” MgArn who ran wild around the|] Greek Letter Frateralty Jewelry
initial sack last season departed with
the good ship ‘20, but John Barnette 213 N. Liberty Strest
who was another star on the Cornelius
nine last summer will probably succeed
“Doug.”

From the men who are back this year,
and the men who are here for the first
time Davidson is hoping to put out a

team that will .bring home the bacon.; Th § | H ]
With Coach Hengeveld as coach, and the | e e wyn ote
co-operation of every man on the hill: FIRE PROOF

there’s no reason why this year’s nine

should not be a winner. Located’ in the heart

Triangle, cut through it, and in fact./High School girls went into action
romped all over it, trimming the Char- against the strong Greensboro team.
lotte “Y” quint by a merry tune of the/Greensboro’s 30-22 victory over Char-
above: score. lotte the night before was but,one in a
—Wildcats— long, unbroken string of successes.

The avalanche of counters complete-| After a few minutes of nip and tuck
ly smothered the Queen City lads, and|play Miss Irving drew first blood for
wiped out the lingering memory of that|Greengboro, when she caged the only
32 to 24 defeat some six weeks ago. field goal of the quarter. Both sides

—Wildcats— made a foul goal and the score was

The best that the visiting forwards|3-! at the end of the period. In the
could do, under Schenck’s and Craw- second round Miss Stinett got her bear-
ford’s guarding, was to ring up a goal|ing and caged the ball four times, three
apiece while Howell at center caged of them within the short space of two
two. minutes. The half ended with the score

—Wildcate— 12-2 in favor of the visitors. ;

Roberts again figured prominently in Greensboro came on the floor in the
the scoring, running up a total of 32 second half with several changes in their
points. He completely’ran away from line-up but this did not seem to impair
the two guards put on him. their wonderful team work, for though
Davidson fought hard they were clearly
outclassed during this period. Greens-
boro seemed to shoot almost at will
despite the desperate guarding of the

Of course everyone knows a Wildcat
can fight but did you ever hear of one
running? Well, they can. If you want
proof, journey out to Sprunt Field some
afternoon and you will be thoroughly
convinced. The big oval encircling the
“Cat's playground” is getting some good
pounding from the members of the
Wildcat chapter of the B. V. D. frater-
nity,

The track has been put in good con-
dition and the only thing it needs is
pounding, and it is getting plenty of
that. With the weather getting warm
agair, “the knights of the cinder cir-
cuit” are out in full force and the pros-
pects are. bright for having the best
team that Davidson ever put out.

“Wooly” Grey is coaching the team
and has already demonstrated that he
knows his job. Coach still holds the
records for the shot and discus, and for
many seasons he was the mainstay of

BALTIMORE, MD. -

—Wildcats—
Tonight finds the team in Charlotte
where they will engage the Wofford five

from Spartanburg. The lads from the Davidson girls. Th ° : the team. Leonard Dick is the‘ captain D

y . : . The closing whistle blew ‘ - -
Palmetto State will hos out to pie put with Davidson still apparently not dis-}Of this year’s team and altho he re- HIPPLE CONCERT CO. of Charlotte, conven
the defeat registere against them last 1 astened by the overwhelming odds. fused the reporter an interview, the (Continued from from page 1) jent to railroad sta-
year on their home floor, and a hot game The final score was 37-3. broad smile that he wears fully indicates

their esprit de corps was very noticeable. tions, street Cars, busi-

Every member of the company seemed : _
to be on the alert at all times to support ness and shopping cen

the others. No less pleasing was the ters.

admixture of a few vocal imitations, here ’
and there—they were especially helpful Table d hote lunches,

in the rendition of Pryor’s “The Whist- | 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO-

ler and His Dog.” “The Hunting Scene,” PEAN.

a dashing bit of musical description, was | Rooms $1.50 and up;
given with feeling and joyous spon- .
taniety. The famous “Light Cavalry with bath $2.00 and up.

Overture” of von Suppe’, the standard Our system of artesian

may be expected.
, —Wildcats—

The best comparative score would be
that of the University of Florida.
Whereas we romped off with a 45 to 26!
victory over the far-south lads; Wofford
bowed down to them by a 45 to 35
score.

that he is satisfied with the material on
hand.

Six letter men have returned and
Coach will use them for a nucleus
around which to build his team. They
are: Captain Dick, who steps the mid-
dle distances; Gentry, who takes his
time in the high and broad jumps; Mc-
Leod, who throws the shot and discus
away; and Worth, Sprunt, and Fricker,
the tireless trio who gallop around the
oval four or eight times at a stretch. From

The two outstanding features of the
game were almost perfect work of the
Greensboro guards who prevented Dav-
idson from ringing a single field goal,
and the wonderful goal shooting of Miss
Stinett who during the contest tallied
27 points.

The whole Davidson team did their
best crippled as they were by the ab-
sence of Miss Potts from the line-up.
Miss Moore put up the best game for
the home team. The line-up follows:

—Wildcats—
Saturday finds a curious combination
on the hill. Women, Tigers,—and as the
occasion is Junior Speaking—there will

probably be plenty of rain. : this it will be seen that there is a plenti- “American Patrol” of Meacham and the water flowing through the
—Wildcats— F Johacon & ee Greens oa ful supply of distance men while the pleasing Songs of the Sunny South’ of building.
Clemson invades our den and a merry|F Hobbs (3) ------------ F. Stinett (27) |SPrints and hurdles will have ‘to be|/@™P¢ ‘itio. ov Th wold tp y ite “Ser.
tussle will ensue when the Tigers and|cC, Moote _....------------- C. Whiteley | t@ken_ care of by new men. But these ry na Tatil ce "i to ° fi te H. C. Larzelere Prop.
Wildcats meet. Johnnie Schenck, for-|G Grey __-_---------------- G. Forsythe |Should be found among last year’s /enace © i * hone ol od ute, ’
mer Clemson captain, will be in action|G Mooney -------------------- G. Clapp | Scrubs and the young flock of Freshmen | trombone anh xy te one please behind
against his old team-mates. Substitutions — Greensboro: Meyers |Who are out. To show that they were not benin '

the times the Hipples presented a saxo-
phone quartette. To judge by the ap-
plause, it made the hit of the evening.
The quartette featured “The Bullfrog

—Wildcate—
The girls game between the local high
and the Greensboro proved quite inter-
esting. Altho outclassed, the Davidson

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”

S Double Coarantee, Pree Tuning ~ ses Pisa x

The most promising men for the
sprints are Denniston, Steed, Erwin, Mc-
Gukin and Gordon. Denniston has had
to go slow on account of a bad foot,

for Forsythe; Johnson (4) for Irving;
Fluhearty (2) for Whiteley. Davidson:
Shelton for Johnson. Time: four 71-2
minute quarters. Referee: Doubles.

i i lues” and Mr. Hipple on the bass saxo- Write f
team put up a game fight to the end. A D while Erwin has been held up on account B rite lor
certain Miss Stinett, in scoring 27 points HOW TO PREPARE of a bad ankle; but both these men are phone featured the eee out ara a Catalogue,
for her team, was the outstanding star FOR THE INSPECTOR’S expected to:burn up the track when popular expression he “went South. Terms
of the game. VISIT NEXT WEEK |they_once get started. In the 440 and| Undoubteduly the closing number was ;

—Wildcate—

“Eye like an eagle, big boy”—“shove it
over"—“hit the dust”—and other popular
phrases of the national pastime, are be-
ing heard these days on Sprunt Field,
where Coach Hengeveld has his pro-
teges limbering up.

—Wildcate—

With eight veterans back this year,
baseball prospects are as bright as could
be hoped for. Of the catchers, Wrenn
and Johnson are both back, and with
the twirlers we see that Captain “Bill”
Miley, “Buck” Currie, and Shepard have
all returned. Only two infielders have
showed up, E. Cassell and Ratchford.
Crawford is the only regular outfielder
to return.

880 Dick, Galloway and De Lorme are the weakest of the entire program. And
running neck and neck and it is still a then it was not the music that offended

toss up as to who will win out. but the crude and unnecessary display
Two of the letter men in the mile are ot the American flag. The senseless

handicapped by injuries, Worth has a practice of displaying the flag during the

bad knee and the old “Charlie hoss” is closing number does not honor the flag

still bothering Sprunt. But these may and audiences are tired of it. It served

disappear when warm weather gets here. only to counter a wholly favorable im-

Galloway and Roberts seem to have the [Pression

i i . .

inside track on the other contestants in ——_)D-—_

this event. Davis in the hurdles and Mc- APPRECIATIVE AUDIENCE

Cackill and Cornellson in the jumps GREETS GLEE CLUE L

seem to have the edge on their contest- AT MOORESVILLE

ants. . The 18 jolly, mirth-loving sons of

There is an abundance of weight men.|Tjimotheus once more donned their
In addition to McLeod, “Big” Knight, “stiff-bosoms” and made their departure
Brice and Doc La Far are sending the|for Mooresville last Friday evening
shot and discus wide and far. There are], tg Smiley, via Mt. Mourne. The club

The inspector will be here Thursday,
March toth. It is desirable that we make
upon him the best impression possible.
We need have no fear that he can find
any fault with the systems of admin-
istration and instruction. The only pos-
sible danger lies in what he may think
of us, ourselves, and of how we receive
the instruction, and conduct ourselves in
general. He will note our general ap-
pearance, our conduct at drill and off
duty, and our entire attitude, which will
be shown by everything that we do.
Any number of seemingly little things,
such as, untidiness of dress, failure to
salute, inattention at drill, or dirty

“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
equipment, may make an impression

Aad other standard makes aod the

—Wildgats— that cannot be effaced by some of the|several other men who are showing real ljeft the college at seven-thirty and ar- iacomparable
Track practice has started in earnest | other greater things in which we may/|ctass in this department. rived at the high school where the con- AMPICO
now and Prospects are bright for an- really excel. Ina word, it is the little a | cert was given, to find the auditorium Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
ger championship. “svad. Tn fh things that coun, both in eopearane| Too wae of equipment do well ed wih enthusiastic admirers of} Pama na
promising. He is in great trim and| The following points should be noted, not delay getting it from the storeroom, The bo - te ew in fine tice aft - POST & CO.
promises to be a good man. Dick and|and careful attention given to observ-|if it is there. vnded tr’ ven the very Hoabe Wererooms

_ their extended trip, and from the very
The Mitchell Bush has made its third | first chord till the last note of Of David-
appearance. . son, they performed with a marked de-

209-211 W. Trade St., Chaslotte, N. C.

De Lorme are holding up the work in & Stores alsoat Norfolk and Newport News, Vs.

the middle distances. Galloway, a
promising lad from Georgia, is wading
into the distances in grand order.
Knight is tossing the weights close to
the record marks already and promises
to break one or two records before the"
season is over. Green is holding down
things in the high jump and pole vault.
—Wildcate—

Basketball schedule for the next few
days:

Thursday, March 3—Davidson vs.
Wofford at Charlotte.

Friday March 4—N. C. State vs. Wake
Forest at Raleigh.

Saturday March s—University of N.
C. vs University of Va., at Raleigh.

Wednesday, March g—N. C. State “vs.
Trinity, at Raleigh.

—__

Dry leaders of Holland have an-
aounced that they will make a deter-
mined effort to secure the adoption of a
focal option bill in the next session of
the Netherlands parliament.

—___ D_—____
“What a happy world this would be if
everybody were cheerful.” .

ing them:

1. Uniform in best possible condition
and pressed; shoes shined ; leggings neat-
ly wrapped; cap correctly shaped; in-
signia properly attached (R. O. T. C.
patches sewed on.)

2. Face shaved and hair cut.

3. All equipment clean; webb equip-
ment properly adjusted.

4. Precise saluting, and military bear-
ing on all occasions. We must look the
part.

5. Order and attentiveness at drill.

6. Promptness and decision in an-
swering any questions the inspector or
instructor may ask. Bear in mind that
it is better to give a wrong answer as
if you meant it than to hesitate or say
you do not know.

Let each man in the Corps consider it
his special duty to “shoot” the inspector.
And let us determine that we will show
the best that is in us.

In order that uniforms may be put in
shape, the uniforms will not be required
at either drill or class after today, Wed-
nesday, March 2d., until next Wednes-
day, March oth. During that time have
your uniforms cleaned and pressed.

anteieie
