The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
. “The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
ea
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

; SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

eee
——_———————————

i Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Articles tiny. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

eee ————S—=—=_—=
--Editor-in-Chief

j. a SASS ARDS ——— re sccony Managing Editor

sistant Managing Editor

aca “Atsgmment Edie
et

. Bee _---Alumni Editor

ceececcccaccwacenees scocccenreseseneccsocennnnnns. ‘orum Editor

J. y OUNLA — ——5--Campus Editor
------¥, M. itor

BL X Sala 7 zoocial Editor
wonnacn iterary Editor

ey | Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Ogden, D. H.
Ormond, A. C.
Phillips, J. W.
Sprunt, J.
Summers, A. C.

Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.

King, A. D.
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G

Bailey, J. C.

Bitzer, R.

Cooper, W. J.

Cunniggham, C. E.
av) , RF.

Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Lowrance, D. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS...------------------- ecececceeceeeee-se--- Business Manager

E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

_...-Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: / ,
Cc. H. LON _ - Circulation Manager
j.c. WOOL ____ = oo none nnnennnnnoe——----nnnnn nena --------=---- Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.”
D———_

NEW STUDENT, who enrolled here after leaving another school,
was heard to remark that the only big trouble with Davidson
was that you could not make others believe how good she is.
That is what we call true Davidson loyalty and spirit. And it is just
this that the members of the Greater Davidson Club must have in order
to make our schoo! bigger and better. Put your shoulders to the wheel,

‘men, and make things move.

_D———_—.

The aftermath of rains and snows is a dreaded thing on our cam-
pus due to lack of substantial walks. Cement, or even gravel, walks
would add much to the beauty of our campus as well as to the conven-
ience of the students. Of course it is absurd to think of a complete sys-
tem of walks being laid at one time, but by adding a little year to
year it could be gradually accomplished.

We sometimes wonder what some students consider the ultimate

urpose of an educational institution. Judging from a certain increas-

ing class it would seem that they believe college to be a camouflaged

recreational establishment. Our suggestion to these is that they should

change their attitude, for college was not founded for a winter resort.
D———_

The last three games indicate that our quint is gaining in offensive
strength in every contest. We are proud of our fighting five, but there
is danger in too many overwhelming victories. Self confidence can
easily be the disastrous ruin of anyteam. |

And at last the Glee Club is really materializing into a live organ-
ization. Much credit is due to Mrs. Frazer Hood for her faithful and
efficient assistance. There is no reason why Davidson should not put
out as good a musical organization of this kind as any other college in
the State. Men with any talent at all should lend their aid as a real
Glee Club is good advertisement for any school.

D————_T

How would the students like Sunday afternoon concerts this

spring by our band? ' i
. .D——————

The recent snow has apparently awakened a spirit in our students
of breaking window panes. If the money required to remedy these
damages were used for famine relief, many pains of the starving could
be alleviated. The Superintendent of the College grounds has just in-
formed us that over five hundred dollars will be needed this year to
cover only the damages of this nature. Where is the Damage Com-
mittee? It is outrageous that such a practice as this should be coun-
ternanced, It is not only a waste of money, but not fair that all have
to suffer the loss caused by the perverted sense of fun of a few.

BACK TO THE OLD WAY.

It is not our desire to be Bolshevistic in our attitude toward the
finer arts, but we do believe that the time has come when the ban
should be put on all the student musicians, especially those would -be
muscians, who make it their habitto practice after eight o'clock at
night. For some reason this clause was omitted in the revision of the
Student Body Constitution last spring. This, however, should be no
check on a provision again being made to cover this matter.

We personally know of many boys on the campus who are com-
plaining that so much noise and confusion (they include the musical
renditions in this classification) is detrimental to efficient study. That
they are right in their contention is plainly seen by all reasonable
thinking men. The remedy’ is just as plain. Definite action should
be taken by the Student Council to relieve the campus of this nui-
sance. Such proceedings will mean an amendment to the Constitution,
but if brought before the student body it would be overwhelmingly
ified:

EXEMPTION FOR ALL?

When Dr. Martin read the honor roll
it seemed that the regulation for ex-
emption of Juniors and Seniors from
term examination if they made above
85 on their daily and review grade, had
increased the number on the honor roll.
This exemption from term examination
has raised the grades of Juniors and
Seniors, would it not help the grade of
‘the whole student body?

This is not intended to lower the
average required for exemption but does
favor the application to the whole stu-
dent body. The figures in last week's
Davidsonian show that the general
average of the fraternities was 78. The
fraternities are not below the average
in scholastic standing. By making this
application, to be benefited by it the
average standing would have to be
raised. That is to say the average stu-
dent would have to put out more work
than he has been doing, but would he
not gladly do it for the reward. Too
many are contented with simply a pass,
would they not work harder for a high-
er goal with a reward. Something in
reach of every student and in finding he
can make this average strive for the
honor roll thé nearer €o perfection.

Cc. F.

—We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921-—

A WORD FROM AN ALUMNUS.

To whom it may interest: students,
faculty, trustees, or mere alumni.

I am following the advice of a wise
father to an aspiring lover: “My son,
do not express yourself until you can
hold in no longer.”

It was not with a feeling purely of
pride that we heard last fall of the rec-
ord-breaking attendance at Davidson.
Nor does the slogan

We Want 500 Students Next Year.
Begin Now.

appeal to us as it once might have. Five
years ago our slogan was: A Bigger
and A Better Davidson, but the time
has now come, we feel, when, for a few
years, the first half had better be left
off. °

But, it will be urged, the larger the
college, the greater its renown, the
wider its influence, the more real and
extensive its service. Yet this is not
altogether true. What reputation David-
son has came not because of her size,
but because of the quality of her
scholarship and sportsmanship, and the
spirit that pervades her campus. The
institutions in the United States that
enjoy the most enviable reputations
and exert the greatest influence, are
not the largest. Can you reckon the
influence of the colleges of North and
South Carolina from the numbers of
students that attend them?

What is the measure of the service
of a college? Is it not her effect upon
the average student's mind and char-
acter plus the influence of that student
on his home community times the num-
ber of students at the college. Now it
would be fine to increase the numerical
factor, but we must be careful lest in
so doing we diminish the other less
tangible elements.

Consider what Davidson will have to
pay for continued increase in numbers.
It is a common complaint at present
that the Davidson spirit is not what it
used to be. How can it be the same
with four and a half hundred men on
the campus.as it was with only three
hundred? Men cannot know each other
so well. In place of the unity there
comes the tendency to clique forma-
tion. There passes away that intimate
contact between the faculty members
and the student. Indeed it has so far
passed already that ‘many students, who
have never felt the wholesome influence
of such a relationship, scoff at it. And
unless some new source of material
wealth is discovered, Davidson's equip-
ment is apt to remain on the ragged
edge of inadequacy. .

Since leaving Davidson, two years
have been spent at each of two large in-
stitutions. (It is not a large experience
to draw conclusions from, altho as
large, probably as that of many readers
of this article.) And we must confess
that we have found nothing in them
that we could wish for Davidson, which
can be in any way attributed to the
size of the university—not even strong
athletic teams. On the other hand
many disadvantages of large size have

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1921.

| Open Forum |

EXCHPNGE
DOR 2
Oe

7
Read the exchanges in the Library.

VANDERBILT ALUMNUS TO LEC-
- TURE TO STUDENTS ON RELI-
GIOUS WORK.

Fletcher Brockman, International Sec-
retary of the Y. M. C. A, and one of
Vanderbilt's well-known alumni, will
speak to the students of Vanderbilt in
the university chapel Monday under the
auspices of the local Y. M. C. A. Mr.
Brockman will lecture on all phases of
religious work.

° —The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Gs

College Girl (home on vacation)—“Oh,
father, why didn’t you tell me you had
those benches painted? Frank and I
sat down on one and Frank got paint
on his trousers.”

—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

They say the Emory boys are wrink-
ling their noble brows because the Mar-
tha girls are wearing silk hose and
pumps out in the snow. The mystery
is: Where do their minds run? Why
can't they meet our eyes with smiles
and not be so downcast?

~Martha’s Mirror.

Washington and Lee observed Foun-
der’s day in commemoration of General
Robert E. Lee. Exercises were held in
the chapel on Wednesday morning, Jan-
uary toth, the speaker being Dr. S. C.
Mitchell, head of the department of his-
tory at the University of Richmond.

In a short introductory speech, Presi-
dent Smith gave a few interesting facts
concerning General Lee’s connection
with this institution, and spoke of his
sacrifice in giving his service to Wash-
ington College when he could have had
a princely salary with idleness and
luxury elsewhere.

Robert E. Lee rode into Lexington on
a borrowed horse with forty dollars of
borrowed money in his pocket, ta take

been strongly impressed upon us. Mere
size is spectacular, but intrinsically it
is of little value.

We could wish to see Davidson for
the next two or three or four years
limit the size of her student body to
four hundred. We believe that if she
made this fact known, she would here-
after be able to choose the best of an
increasing number of applicants. We
believe that many of the purposeless
and unhelpful students that infest ev-
ery student body would be eliminated,
and their places taken by others more
worthy. We believe that the quality of
the average student would be bettered,
and that the true Davidson spirit would
be more powerfully felt. We believe
that more than forty per cent of the
Freshmen would graduate, and that the
individual training of those graduates
would be better. And we believe that

in the aggregate Davidson would in-
crease to no smatt extent her service to
the South, and to the world.
Phil Price, '17.
Baltimore, Md. °
—=—We Want 10 Clase Reunions in 182]-—

up his work as president of Washington
College for a salary of $1,500 a year.
—The Ring-tum Phi.

Austin College is hoping to endow
itself with oil. A big gusher, flowing
about 3000 barrels daily, has been
brought in at a distance of about six
miles from a tract of land owned by
the college and it is hoped that this will
inerease the value of the land enough
to secure a suitable endowment fund for
the college —Kangaroo.

All fraternities at the University of
Arkansas have decided to give up their
formal dances during the current ses-
sion on account of the bad financial con-
ditions prevailing in the South at pres-
ent.—U. of Arkansas Weekly.

It has been definitely announced that
Tulane University will not have a Var-
sity baseball team this year—Hulla-
baloo.

“A San Francisco ‘man brought suit
for divorce, objecting to his wife bring-
ing a pet lion to bed.” Gee! Some hus-
bands are certainly finicky !—Helena
Independent. . .

Here lies in peace Sylvester Stew.
He learned to make his own home brew.
—Ex.

It was a beautiful moonlight night,
and they were taking a stroll along the
beach. She: “Does the moon affect
the tide?”

He: “No, dearest, only the untied.”—
Exchange.

Dormitory Regulations.

Students wishing to do a little driving
will find a hammer and nails in the
closet. .

If your light goes out, take a feather
from your pillow, that’s light enough.

If you are fond of athletics, lift the
matress, and see the bed spring.

If you get hungry try a roll in bed.

If you want a janitor wring the towel.

If you want to write a letter you'll
find a sheet on the bed.

Don’t worry about paying your room
rent. The dormitory is supported by
the foundation —Ex,

The Doggone Truth.

I’ve been a good fellow

Earned all I spent;
Paid all I borrowed;

Lost all I lent.
I once loved a woman,

That came to an end;
Get a good dog boys,

He's always your friend.

—Red and Black.

Mese Hall Repartee.

Hollingsworth: Will you pass the
catsup?
Windham: I don’t see any cats but

here are some delicious dogs.
——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 182i-——

Who'd a Thunk It?
Fresh Bible students are told that in
all probability the golden candlesticks
were made of solid silver.

A fresh says that the Soph class had
better give Dick Richards a guard as
Dick might be permanently injured by
himself and comrades who are skilled in
slinging a wicked snowball.

S|

vite

IF you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke

a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco.

Then you'll

know what a real French briar is, and what the Demuth

seasoning will do to make it
- Ask any good dealer to show
a pick yours.

break in sweet and mellow.
you a variety of shapes, then

We. DEMUTH & CO... NEW YORK

j WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES }
