THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

Speaking of Sports

. Play Ball.

Hold tight buddie—the Wildcats open
up this afternoon on the Univ. of N. Y.
nine. Let’s make it one continual stretch
of ye old Red and Black pep. Go get
’em Wildcats!

—Back the Wildcat Special—

That’s just it—back the WILCDAT
SPECIAL. On to Winston and help lick
Carolina Easter Monday. Everybody
shell out and lend a hand toward trailing
the Blue and White in the dust, and
then for the old shirt-tail parade around
the Square Monday night,

—While the Band Playe—
“Heil, Hail, the gang’s----

Football—

Davidson, 7; Carolina, 0.
Basketball—

Carolina, 37; Davidson, 20.
Baseball—

What's your answer, Wildcats?
—Back the Wildcat Special—

Clemsofi Tigers open up today also,
crossing bats with the Univ. of Georgia
aggregation on the Cadets’ home ground.
The Cadets, who appear on the Wildcat
card late in April, are reported as hav-
ing a strong squad, especially is the
pitching staff well rounded out. The
outfield is the only department to be
filled, caused by vacancies from gradu-
ation last year.

—Back the Wildcat Special—

Next week finds college baseball in
full swing down in Dixie, and the sched-
ule of the teams whom Davidson will
meet later is as follows:

Thursday, March 24th— .

Davidson vs. Univ. of N. Y., at David-

son.

Clemson vs. Univ. of Geo., at Clemson.
Friday, March 25th— .

Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson.

Clemson vs. Univ. of Geo., at Clemson.

Trinity vs. Guilford, at Durham.

N. C. State vs. Univ. of N. Y., at Ral-

eigh.
Saturday, March 26th—

Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson.
Monday, March 28th—

Davidson vs. Univ. of N. C., at Win-

ston.

N. C. State vs. Wake Forest, at Ral-

eigh.
Wednesday, March 30th—
Univ. of S. C. vs. Yale, at Macon, Ga.
Trinity vs. Guilford, at Durham.
—Back the Wildcat Special—
—On to Winston—
—Down Carolinae—

Track practice is in full swing now-a-
days and next week finds the first inter-
collegiate meet in this State. The rival
cinder path artists of Wake Forest and
N. C. State toe the scratch Monday in
Raleigh.

Prospects at Davidson are brighten-
ing and the men are just about in shape
for the opening meet.

—Back the Wildcat Special—

Two weeks ago, reasons and data were
published on this page to the effect that
this year’s Davidson basketball team was
rated as third in the State college cir-
cles. Of course reasons were not given
in detail. Notwithstanding this, in the
“Gold and Black" of Wake Forest, March
18th issue, there appears an article
which not only disputes this inference,
but which goes so far as to eliminate
Davidson entirely from the race and to
leave the matter a tie between Wake
Forest and Elon.

It is not the policy of this college pa-
per to criticize articles in its brother
collegiate weeklies, but at this time, in
justice to Davidson College, its 1920
quint and to the student body of Da-
vidgon and other colleges, this depart-
ment wishes to reinforce the argument
stated two weeks ago and to protest to
the stand taken by Wake Forest athletic
circles.

. The “Gold and Black” quotes that “Da-
vidson is to be eliminated because she
only met four other state colleges.” The
same paper criticizes the system of judg-
ing by points and states that “a victory
iwon by one point is just as much victory
‘as one won by twenty points.” How
jabout it—is it?

There are seven teams in the race for
istate collegiate honors. Davidson met
\four, not meeting Wake Forest or Trin-
ity. Arguing from Wake Forest's own
standpoint, that college itself would also

e eliminated on the same grounds, as
she failed to play either Davidson or

arolina.

’

L

Athletic News

{CAPTAIN AND MANAGER
FOR 1922 BASKETBALL
SEASON ELECTED

At a meeting composed of only bas-
-ketball letter men, C. R. Crawford, crack

If there is to be any picking done atl guard on this year’s quintet, was elected
all it must be from a standpoint of com- the leader of next year’s five. The man-
parative scores. In the issue of two agement of the team fell to the lot of
weeks ago it was clearly pointed out in Leonard Dick by the popular vote of the
several instances where the results| Athletic Association. All are pleased

would enable Davidson to claim the
honor. If, however, more facts are nec-.
essary, here they are—look at them and
judge for yourself:

Davidson, 45; N. C. State, 13. i

Davidson, 28; N. C. State, 29.

From these two scores our advocates
of the point victory system, would sug-
gest that N. C. State’s 1 point victory
balances exactly Davidson’s 32 point vic-
tory. It clearly does NOT; and whereas

with the results, for they recognize that

no better fitted men could be secured for

the positions.

Crawford has proven time and time;
again that he is capable of the honor |

conferred upon him. During the last
half of the season he was a bulwark of
strength on the defense and his ability
to cover the floor for an open shot was
remarkable. Though this is his first
season on the Varsity, yet he plays a

BELK BROS.

Are selling
Easter Clothes
for

this comparison is not only thrown aside,

Davidson has such odds over N. C. State,
the best the lads from Wake Forest
could be satisfied with was a 20 to 10
victory and a loss by the same score.

Davidson, §1; Guilford, 14.

Wake Forest, 41; Guilford, 14.

Both games played on the victors’ season will be a success from a financial

home floors, and Davidson has a 10 point | standpoint, as Dick is welt adapted to
vantage, but by the protestor’s system,|money matters.
M Under Crawford’s leadership and
but the team which has the advantage is | Dick’s management there is no .reason
somehow lost sight of entirely. Quite! why Davidson shouldn't put out a win-
complicated indeed. ‘ ning basketball team next year.

And to go even outside of the State,

the Univ. of Virginia in defeating Wake FRENCH LECTURER HEARD
Forest 35 to 13, trebled the score against BY LARGE AUDIENCE

them while against Davidson the lads
M. Emile Villemin Gives Splendid

from the Old Dominion won in a 47 to 25
contest, just doubling the score. Talk Illustrated by Stereopticon
Views.

Also against Washington and Lee, the
Wake Forest aggregation bowed in a 26
to 14 defeat, while the Generals were] Monsieur Emile Villeman, official lec-
fortunate enough to win a 31 to 28 con-|turer of the Federation de L’Alliance
test from Davidson in a final minute | Francaise aux Atats Unis et au Canada,
rally. gave an illustrated lecture in Shearer

But why worry. Elon even entered aityant fast Friday evening on subject
protest against the Univ. of N. C. being }«yzont Saint-Michel.” One of the large-
the champions because the Rah-Rah' est tecture: audiences in several years
lads, even though they defeated Elon 37 was there to hear him.

to 12, did not meet the losers in a re-| © K, Brown, president of Le Cercle
turn game on the latter’s home floor. |Francaise de Davidson under whose
—-Wildcats Forever — auspices the lecture was given, intro-

steady and cool game and should make
the Wildcats a capable leader.

The responsibility of management
was placed upon Dick as he is a man of
idiscreet judgment. There is no doubt in
‘the minds of the students but that the

o

So much for basketball. That will duced the speaker in the French lan-
make good history, however—but what guage.
about the game Easter Monday: Monsicur Villemin used his native

—Down With Caroliha—

tongue entirely. After laini th
—Back the Wildcat Special— 8 ¥ ee one

location of Saint-Michel, he showed
———.- w= _ [some pictures of the island and the sea
BACK THE WILDCAT SPECIAL. ' bottom around. It is there that the tides
are so comparable to the Newfoundland
The special leaves there at 10 p. m.,itides in this hemisphere and the quick-
plenty of time for a show and possibly | sand of the sea bottom is so treacherous.
a big parade. Let's wake’ em up! Don't One of the most dramatic parts of his
say “Good-Bye” Monday, say “Come|speech was where he described a man
On.” Can Davidson take them in? Ask|losing his life in the quicksands.
any or all of the baseball squad. The second part of his lecture was
The big town will be in readiness for jlargely a description of the cathedral
the baseball classic of the year. Old and houses of the island. Many beau-
Davidson after three games on the hill | tiful slides showing the different types
will be primed for hitting Carolina, and{of architecture of the different cen-
though that bunch isn’t saying much,/turies, were shown on the screen. Col-
don’t think it's because they aren't doing umns of all periods are found on this
anything. They have a scrappy bunch, | wonder spot of France.
but they'll mect a scrappier crew.! Monsieur Villermin was a man of a
"Member that football game last fall? | most pleasing personality and held the
Suppose their baseball team can do any |attention of his audience in a most ex-
better? Come on now, two hundred and traordinary manner, even those not
fifty in a big “NO.” familar with the French language. His
Easter Monday the Wildcat baseball clear annunciation and mannerisms aid-
contingent leaves for Winston-Salem.jed his hearers a great deal in following
The faculty has done its part nobly. The|the thread of his temarks. Much in-
petition for a holiday is stamped with a|terest was aroused in the French lan-

big “YES.” It’s now up to two hundred |
and fifty sons of Davidson to get right, |
get a ticket, get aboard and get Caro-.
lina's scalp. Trains leave at 6:13 a. m.,!
getting there at 9 o'clock, and 12:23 a.|
m., arriving at 3 o'clock. The big part of |
rooters will leave early and look over |
the Twin City at leisure before going:
out to the game at 2:45 p. m. The
Kiwanis Club of Winston has charge of
the game, so rest assured that things
will be attended to in a proper manner.

SCORE R. O. T. C. RIFLE TEAM.

el oe

TEltEl gels
Student nae eles Ee 3
galalea het! &
Finch, W. M. -.--.-- 46 48 45 44 183
Martindale, G. B. ---. 42 48 44 45 179
Romefelt, B. W. ..-. 44 48 43 42 177
Cohran, R. M. --.--- 44 46 44 43° 1977
Fewell, Ed. -...-.-.. 43 48 42 42 175
McCutchen, J. ..-... 43 44 43 44 174
Price, Paul ---------. 41 42 44 44 171
Fraser, T, L, -----. 42 45 41 42 170
Summers, A. C. ...---. 49 45 40 42 167
Moore, W. W. ----- 37 43 41 43 164
Total ~.---.--_---422 457 427 431 1737

Mrs. Catherine Vickery, of Rochester,
N. Y., and Miss Mamie Helen Oetzel, of
Union, S. C., will he guests of the Misses
Scofield for the Easter holidays.

guage by this splendid lecture.
D————__

DAVIDSON BASEBALL SEASON

(Continued from page 1)
best of Carolina's history. His biggest

problem has been’ the large number of | Was at a premium. Among the notable |Mask is perh
firstclass infield material he has on hand | Persons seen in the audience were Count |those of Du

and how he can place them best. Ac-

cording to all reports from the Tarheel | Brown. Among thosé indulging in the |Necklace, The
camp, a winning combination is expected |terpsichorean art besides Cop and T. B., Rouge,
-|and they are determined to wipe out the

sting of the gridiron defeat at the hands
of the Wildcats on that same field at
Winston tast fall. A large number of
the student bodies of both institutions
will journey over with their teams and
the game will be the center of a gala
occasion. The Tarheels will meet the
New York contingent on Wednesday
and the results of the comparative scores
will furnish a little ground for predic-
tions the following Monday. It will
throw some light on the nature of the
Blue and White aggregation, but no mat-
ter what it shows, Coach Hengeveld’s
charges are going to show them a real
ball club and are determined to cop the
first stepping stone toward the State
championship.

Some who say they. understood the
lecture Friday night are strong com-
petitors for the dog?

BELK

RUMPLE THE SCENE OF

BRILLIANT SOCIAL EVENT

Large Number of Students Enjoy
Demonstration of the Terpsi-
chorean Art.

An old-fashioned, breakdown dance
was held in front of Rumple dormitory
Friday night from ten o’clock till eleven-
thirty. Beaucoup jazz was furnished by
Arthur V. Gibson assisted slightly by
Bill Hodges and Sheriff Hall. The fun
began soon after Gibson sat down on
the steps and commenced to play his
fiddle. Cop Johnson just couldn't make
his legs behave, so those two suit-cases
of his commenced to kick up an awful
dust to the tune of “Mississippi Sawyer”
(words and music by Arthur von Gib-
son). Bill Hodges brought out an old
mandolin considerably out of tune and
joined in the music. Then Sheriff Hall,
hearing all the noise, came down to
make an investigation, but as long as
nobody was drunk and no lights were
being shot out, he thought he'd let the
fun go on, so he pulled out a harmonica
and joined the orchestra. T. B. Cly-
burn had been sitting away down there
in the barracks studying polit, but when
he heard the serene strains of “Mis-
sissippi Sawyer” ascending into the air
from the fiddle of the original Gibson,
there was no longer room enough for
him on that coal-box where he had been
sitting. He too was soon in action
opposite Cop.

By this time a crowd had gathered
around, and after the exhibition of Cop
,and T. B., others joined in and gave an
exhibition of a real old-fashioned coun-
try break-down including the square
dance and twistification. About half the
student body were gathered around to
witness the exhibitionand standing
room in the front windows of Rumple

| Jones, Major Rogers, and Monsieur C. K.

were Doc La Far, Rod Shaw, M. Erwin,
McGill, M. McLeod, and McCain. Re-
freshments consisted of sky-juice, serv-
ed in paper sacks by occupants of third
floor Rumple.
—_____)__-—_____

Watch the would-be tennis players

rush for the new courts!

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Young Men
at
Pre~War Prices

BROS. |

DAVIDSON McDOWELL DOUG.
LASS, MINISTER AND
EDUCATOR.

Is Now President of South Carolina
Presbyterian College.

Davidson McDowell! Douglass, '95, was
born at Blackstock, S. C., June 20, 1869.
His parents were Rev. James Douglas
and Mrs. Margaret Douglas. Entering
Davidson at the age of 21 he received
his A.B. degree in 1895. Pursuing his
education further, he went to Louisville
Theological Seminary, and in 1899 receiv-
ed his B.D. degree from Columbia
Theological Seminary. Dr. Douglas
studied at Princeton from 1899 to 1900
and at Johns Hopkins from 1904 to 1906.

In September 1903 Dr. Douglas mar-
ried Miss Lydia Welch of Pittsburgh.
He was ordained to the Presbyterian
ministry in 1900 and held the pastorship
of the Brevard and Davidson River
churches for four years. In 1904 he was
called to the Maryland Avenue Church
in Baltimore where he remained for
seven years. When the Presbyterian
College of South Carolina was founded
in 1911 Dr. Douglas was called to’be its
first president and is now holding that
position.

Two of Dr. Douglas’ brothers, Drs. J.
M. and J. L. are prominent members of
the Davidson faculty, while another
brother Robert is a lawyer of Chester,
S.C. He also has two sisters: Miss Kate
Douglas who is teaching in the David-
son school and Miss Margaret Douglas
who is a missionary.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Among the books added to the library
the last week were eight by the three
standard authors, Wells, Galsworthy,
and Dumas. The Man In The fron
aps the best known of
mas, but his others are
| Memoirs of a Physician, The Queen's
Chevalier of Maison
Ange Pitou and The Black
| Tulip. Galsworthy is represented by his
Man of Property, while Wells’ book is
Century of French Fiction.

D——_—_____

C. T. Overton, J. B. Sizer, Ed Hamerick,

and Brown Hamer motored over to

Salisbury Friday and spent Friday night *
there.

—_

Anything you want in baseball
$2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at

your order.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.

EVERYTHING FOR
5 W. Fourth St.

J

(Just off Tryon)

gloves and bats.

Our gl
from 30 cents to pei thir-Fakae

$8.50 each. Give us

THE OUTDOOR MAN
Phone $248

|
