THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921. 3
T
Doctors Martin and Hood attended a
. 0 C meeting in Greensboro last week, called
CHRIS | IAN AC | I VV I TIES With ther olleges by the State Department of Education. Have those old shoes made
The purpose of the meeting was two- new by the
)ELON COLLEGE OFFICIALLY fold: the presidents of the colleges to
ADOPTS NEW SONG} discuss the demonstration question,
BIBLE CLASS ATTENDANCE SS common to all the colleges in the state, SHU-FIXERY
The fellow who wins is the one IS SMALLER THAN USUAL (By N. C. P. A.) in regards to entrance requirements and Charl
who can‘ come back after every z Elon, N. C, Oct. 3—At a meeting of} scholarships; the professors of educa- arlotte, N. C.
blow—the man who can stand the The attendance at the mid-week Bible the students of Elon College last Friday] tion to receive instruction in their new
punishment and come up smiling classes fell off some last week, there be- evening a song, the words of which} work as high school inspectors. Dr. Local agent
everytime—the one who increases ing a total attendance of only 253 against’ were written by Mr. S. M. Lynam, al Hood is high school inspector of Meck-
his determination as the resistance 205 week before last. That is only 50 member of the Sophomore class,.was|!enburg, Iredell and Cabarrus counties. JEW Phillips 75 Chambers
to his purpose increases and holds per cent attendance. Some floors are presented to the students and unani- mee :
on to his invincible faith in him- reporting 100 per cent. What's the mat- mously adopted by them as the official :
self and the ultimate success of his ter with your floor? Can’t you bring it ‘college song. The words express in| James Black went to Lewisburg, W. c-3
efforts. up next time? The attendance on the) beautiful terms the Elon spirit, athletic,| Va. last week to see his brother Wil-
! ’ .
The power of will and even tem- different floors was as follows: co-educational and otherwise, and is| iam, who was hurt in a football game. 4
perament which are szereises Led bol Whites, 8. suitable to be sung, not only at athletic Get. Your
der the most trying conditions La., 10. “egames, but on more solemn occasions. | if
often measure the difference be- Ga. 1, 18. The song will be set to musie and pub-
tween success and failure. faa, 2, 126 lished in sheet form in the near future. STATI ON E RY ( lothes
When you are fighting the bat- W., 1,13. The words are as follows: ‘ P
tles of life and business, it is not W. 2, 14. Under 'Neath Maroon and Gold. iy a ane complete line
eas . ’ * . i
alone the natural opposition you W. 3, 14. Never college gave to mankind Perey a, oad e a Nn (2
are struggling with—but SELF, the E. Rumple 1, 8. Fairer women, braver men; sie gna nae fainete eae ‘
one individual you must be able to E, Rumple 2, 9. Never did there hearts beat truer Highland Linen writing ae x ;
CONQUER and dictate to at all KE. Rumple 3, 7. Than did hearts of Elon, when paper 1 he South S largest
times. : W. Rumple, 1, 0. On the field for college glory Exclusive Cleaners
f | \ > : 4keaners
W. Rumple 2, 11. * | Fellows that are clean and bold W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler 3 | Dve :
W. Rumple 3, 0. Give their best and fight their hardest DAVIBSEN Re c and Dyers
OO OEEAIE AY GN SUNDAY 4 A, z a ie Het i ath aan on and G ad. ‘i L See their agent:
oe Dabve S 4) 9- rough the four long years of college,
N. Barracks 1, 10. Through the brighter, darker days, y W. Yonan 12 Chambers
Dt, E,W. Sykes, president of Coker| N. Barracks 2, 10. Men and women work together SHOES FURNISHINGS
College, will be the speaker at the “Y” N. Chambers 1, 14. Learning cach some gentler ways We are ready in this :
service on Sunday evening. Dr. Sykes N. Chambers 2, I. Learning too, of love's’ best meaning, line The Ben Vonde Co.
comes to Davidson recommended as a N. Chambers 3, 18, As the years of life unfold, Army Shoes Dress Shoes
man’s man, A graduate of Wake Forest, 5. Chambers J, 10, Till, perchance, two lives be blended and Tennis Shoes The best Dyers in the
where he played varsity football four 5. Chambers Qety Under ‘neath Maroon and Gold, We also h di f
years, he served his Alma Mater for] 5. Chambers 3, 13. ; : G w FURNISHINGS HC South
several years as dean; then, entering D. When the snows of many winters
politics, he was state representative MINISTERIAL BAND'\HEARS Leave their whiteness in our hair, Knox & Barnette ibicaain an
from Anson County for two sessions, un- STIRRING TALK BY McGUKIN We will sit and talk together
til he left the legislature to‘take up his c And she'll be so young and fair | D
duties at Coker. Yo the eyes that learned to love her NEW YORK CAFE s 2
AAT . canal $ An unusually good meeting of the In the days then growing old, 1S1it ur
Leonard Dick is to be given the credit ; ; : ¢ ee Ua '
for Nia bp ie Pe Davidson and| Ministerial Band was held in Shearer That we'll whisper, “Lo! | found you We serve the best and Freshest
ilietwo Mica te: Sa the: Davivde Hall Sunday: afternoon at one-thirty. Under ‘neath Maroon and Gold.” Meats on the Market. Fountain
SOnsWakewbenese “gale dn Charlotte ‘iI i oer sea) Was very interesting as —Sion M. Lynam. 66 L Oo Oo K U S r@) Vv E R a)
Saturday. well as instructive. —— D MAIN STREET MOORSVILLE, N. C.
Dr. Sykes is described by one of his]! B. MeGukin gave a very impressive N, ©, C, W. CELEBRATES 7 | :
friends as “a man whose personality |t#!k on the field. He took his text from FOUNDERS’ DAY Sa it with Flowers | All the latest drinks served
grips you.” Not a preacher but a Chris- ey GG ay John asad ent SS J ; by expert fountain men
‘ Vy ‘ Wo 1864, a year centered around the comparison of the ae IN (el (en 7 1 nin . . |
Cee ey meee ieas 2 Sa ani business man and the preacher, He F (By NI a Sob SD j ; SC H O L I Z, the Florist
young man sees them—Dr. Sykes is sti ral IMG Geile snussente lng divandlive Mcutebbtenty SE Ch, Colt Gh (Chcieib) | Aieils
young—gives, him the power to make a]™#@e Mis talk: practicable by showing Dre Clase Ie Ataddery, cOneRN One Charlotte, N. C. Ages
etronle talk each one of us that there was a field ‘shots ate , eet aya reNiee) N ally Holli eine |
; ‘ : for every one of God’s children” He Secretary of the Board of | Missions. waite DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS unnally, Hollingsworth
Davidson men are more than fortun- 7H q ‘ , : ., otate Baptist Convention, made — the }
< ; ‘ "4 left with cach fellow something that we ~. i i :
ind
ate in having Dr. Sykes as a guest Sun- Willinap. eoonntoreet Pounders’ Day address at the North \ Ht
day, and are expected to give him a ~ : Carolina’ College for Women, Wednes- ids | . . nae
ys Me cUpeMERTdE ; ; : ary Gi E s
true Davidson Welcome. The MiB ULL then EDU the day, October sth, speaking on “the} FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES Mary sarden Candie
. meeting over to the business part of hw wl hw Ceillyze Werneun Gi) dana
1 p the program. Mr. Patterson made the
i am. Mr, Ps : ni Me Uplift.”
NOTES ON BIBLE STUDY motion that the band should HONS in Dressedin wilite, as is the custome the | U I ‘ryon Drug
ean eee SCOT ae thousand students formed a double col-
Outline of Acts through ninth chapter. | insignia on it. is motion was carried |), ferting=intoc tie auditontint Cc
First Section—Chapter 1, 6:7; Church a aa ea ay a through which the faculty and guests VAPO Rus O.
Established in Jerusalem, F) iso eC GcUUle Was La JOULL A eo lmcnal ClAts following by falling pe | na
th Acta Hilts sOonnectng link with ed with the Mizpah benediction, tia RANE : Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly | 200 N. ‘Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.
Luke. ; ; D. As part of the morning exercises, (¢]¢- | [tA |S y
2, Acts 1:13-26—Picture of the little] INFIRMARY OVERFLOWING grams from alumnae all over the world
company before Pentecost. AFTER OPENING REVIEWS were read.

3. Acts 2:1-41—The Gift of the Holy
Spirit. :

4. Acts 2:42-47—The Character of the
New Community.

5. Acts 3:1-4:35—The Church Refuses
the Sanhedrin and Sets Up An Indepen-
dent Spiritual Guidance.

6. Acts 4:36-5:16—The Church is Holy
cand Sacred.

7. Acts 5:17-42—The Church is Divine-
ly Endowed and Encouraged.

8. Acts 6;1-7—The Church Overcomes
Internal Difficulties.

Second Section—Chapter 6:8; 9:43—
The Witnesses Move Out of Jerusalem
Towards Foreigners.

1, Acts 6:8-15—Stephen Preaches to
Grecian Jews. :

Acts 7:1-60—Stephen’s Apology
and Death.

2

3. » Acts 8:1-40—Philip Preaches in
Samaria.

4. Acts 9:1-31—Conversion of Saul.

5. Acts 9:32+43—As the Gospel Grows

Broader, Miracles Grow Greater.
(To be continued.)

-

Our first wave of reviews left only
disaster in its path as it swept un-
mercifully over us last week. We wish
to congratulate those who were fortu-
nate enough not to get “shot,” though
we know the number is small. The
heaviest casualties were in
Bible and physics, which completely ex-

reported

ploded the idea held by many that
physics was a “crip.”
However, there’s always somthing

to be glad for in the darkest hour, but
what can it be this time? Those of us
who have been going-to the post office
twice a day only to find the dust getting
thicker in our boxes, may rest assured
that there will be a thick letter in there
in a day or two. Just write back and
tell him the first month’s marks are al-
ways low because we haven't gotten
straightened out in our work, but that
you will do better next time. You still
have a chance to make good if you will
buckle right down to work. Better luck
next month, fellows!

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports

Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors
and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are
the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson.

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

A. L. Faul, Mgr.

You know them.

Phone 902

In the afternoon the regular meeting
of the Alumnae Association was held in
the Hut, and in the evening the faculty-
students reception was given in the so-
ciety halls.

re anise ])) Se
POLITY CLUB COMMITTEES
NAMED FOR YEAR’S WORK

One of the most interesting and edu-
cational features of the college life, out-
side Of class work, is the Polity Club
which meets at intervals of about three
weeks, and/(discusses the current events
of the day, along with other very inter-
esting subjects. This club does not con-
sist of the student body as a whole, but
only a few Juniors and Seniors who are
especially interested in political science
and economics. Mr. A. C. Summers is
proving himself a worthy president of
this organization.

A meeting held the night of September
27th was the first meeting this year.
However, it was a regular business meet-
‘ing and little time was to be had for dis-
/cussion of events. President Summers
jappointed the following committees:
Program Committee, J. H. McKeithen
and L. A. Taylor; Membership Commit-

| tee, W. R. Booth, J. S. Curry and E, B.
;McGukin; Absence Committee, J. R.
| Jones and T. A. Lacy. The most impor-
jtant of the current events were read!
and after a short, but very interesting |
| discussion, the club adjourned to meet
jagain October roth.

D

| Dr. Thos.-W. Lingle, accompanied by
Fred Smith and George Neal, visited the
community of Steele Creek Sunday.

This Space Reserved for

Piedmont Theatre

GOOD FOOD SE
AT VERY MOD

20 W. TRADE

\

S. & W. CAFETERIA

4j

RVED QUICKLY
ERATE PRICES

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

2)

I. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. €., Writes Insurance

He wants your busi

ness. He represents

only the best companies and has every

facility for meeting your requirements.

He is also a Public

service.

Notary and at your
