THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

—
—

ATHLETIC NEWS

EXHIBITION GOLF MATCH
PLAYED ON LOCAL LINKS

An exhibition match to promote the
playing of golf at Davidson, was played

On the Gridiron

LEXINGTON HIGH LOSES
TO D. C. SCRUBS 7-0

The Davidson Scrubs added another
to their long string of victories when
they defeated Lexington High School
last Friday afternoon 7-0. As the score
indicates, the game was unusually close.
The Lexington team was_ greatly
strengthened. by the playing of Ripple
and Ezerhaf€ in the line, while Grissen
led the offensive with several nice runs.
Ripple and Ebenhart are old N. C. State
stars. Grissen was a letter man at Guil-
ford for four years. He saved the Hi
team several times«by his punts.

The Scrubs played the usual clean and
aggressive game on the offensive while
even, the ‘mighty Ripple could not open
holes in the defense.

The only tally came in the last period
when McComb made a nice run through
the entire Lexington team for 25 yards
and a touchdown. Several blue sweat-
ers were left on the ground when they
tried to check the “Rough Red.” After
this counter the Wildcats received the
kick-off and were marchnig down the
field for another score when the whistle
stopped them on the 3o-yard line.

At the first kick-off Regen kicked to
Grissom who returned five yards. The
Scrubs held for downs. Grissom kicked
to Overton who returned three. The
ball went back and forth the eiftire
quarter, neither side threatening to
score. The quarter ended with the ball
in possession of L. H. S. on D. C.’s 40-
yard line.

The second quarter was a repetition
of the first, ending with the Wildcats
in possession of the ball on their 30-yard
line.

At the beginning of the second half
Grissom kicked off to Roddey, who re-
turned about five yards, The third
quarter was again a seesaw, neither side
having the advantage. At the end of
this period the ball was D. C.’s on Lex-
ington’s 40-yard line. It was’ near the
end of this frame that McComb, sub for
Woods, got loose for his touchdown.

For Lexington, Grissom was the out-
standing star, making most of their
gains, while Smith played a. good end.
It is hard to pick individual stars for the
Wildcats, the entire team played con-
sistent ball with team-work and inter-
ference the outstanding features: But
Young and Regan were the most con-
spicious in the, line, while Raker and
Ballard made steady gains in the back-
field and McComb starred in the brief
period that he was in the game.

Line-up:

Lexington Position Davidson
Peacock --------- RNS cee Roddey
Ripple#2-..--5<-.- 1. er Regen
Eberhart --------- RGE eee es Lowry

* Farabee paid Oy Briggs
Eberhart --------- | Ef @ Fears reas Lewis
Lafabre Sos Young
Smith Gussccscce LE sccssasssdcs Phillips
Leonard____--_--- (0 be gee aeeee Overton
Grissom_--.------ | Dee ae aia ep Woods
Boe eS eee S RHL----------. Ballard
epi oe enntees REUSE Heo eee oe Raker.

Substitutions: Davidson, Smith for

Ballard, McComb for Woods, Ford for

mtg Robbins for Smith.

~“

Still hilarious over fast Saturday’s vic-
tory over N. C. State, the-Wildcats will

embark Saturday on the Winston Spe-
cial, with hopes that will not be awn

ed until Carolina is scalped and the “tar’y McFadden __ SEBEs .- Hill fore. j

extricated from the Tar Heels. With a|Shepherd _ SEBS 22s Park

3-3 score with N. C. State, Davidson|Schenck —_. uIOBestigiaes Faucette| Webb, of Louisville, Ky., who at one
stock has soared and “when that Red! Referee: “Rip” Major. Umpire: Mur-|time was pastor of the Presbyterian
and Black machine is out to fight and]rill, Headlinesman: Henderson. Time-| Church of Davidson. The other books
lcoking mean “on the 12th, the odds will| keeper: Part, Time of periods: 12:12:-|are works of fiction by prominent au-
be even, and if stock continues to soar,|12:12, Substitutions: Davidson: Allen| thors. “The new books are:

the odds will be with the Wildcat team.

N. C. State beat Carolina 7-0, but Car-
-olina. since then has defeated V. M. I.
“20-0 and> ‘University “of Maryland 13-6,
thus: strengthening confidence in them-
“we and: giving a much more favor-
eek ‘Tar. Heel. aggregation.
better team than State,

'was’a few itiches short.

rig warriors. scrap as|

Loam

on the Davidson golf course Friday af-
ternoon of last week. Those playing in
the foursome hailed from Charlotte and
are as follows: Mr. Goebel, professional
at the Charlotte Country Club and
known as the “Long Driver ;” Mr. Lax-
ton, amateur champion of the state; Mr.
Brem and Mr. Porter.

The match was a success in every way.
There were about a hundred students
out to watch the game and they saw
some excellent playing during the after-
noon. There will probably be more golf-
ers on the course this week than there
has been in the past, due to the excellent
golf they have seen.

The features were the long drives and
low scoring of Mr. Goebel and the con-
sistent playing of Mr. Brem. The other
two members of the foursome played
good golf and were only a few strokes
behind the leaders.

Mr. Goebel was the outstanding play-
er of the foursome, making a 35. This
score ties the record of the course. Only
one hole was played badly and if this
had been better the record would have
been lowered by several strokes, as it is
Mr. Goebel’s playing was nothing short
of spectacular.

The individual scores. are as follows:
Goebel 40 and 35; Laxton 41 and 40;
Brem 38 and 42; Porter 42 and 42.

D
CURTIS ORMOND LOSES
TO BRADLEY IN TENNIS

they did last Saturday the outcome will
never be in doubt. Against Carolina’s
inassive Tarheels, Davidson will put her
fighting Wildcats; against Carolinian
weight, the Red and Black will put Dav-
idsonian speed; and against Carolina’s
famous |Lowe and ‘speedy “Johnnie”
Johnson, Davidson will put her miracle
men, “Spratt” Moore and John Schenck.
Go get ’em Wildcats!
, 1D.

STATE AND WILDCATS
STRUGGLE TO 3-3 TIE

(Continued from page 1)
the dashing runs of Schenck presented a
combination that State couldn’t stop.

If figures are taken as a basis; David-
son outplayed State in every phase of
the game. Davidson made 147 yards
from scrimmage for 11 first downs,
while State made 127 yards for nine first
downs. Each team attempted fifteen
passes, the Wildcats nabbing nine for a
gain of an-even 100 yards,. which the
Wolfpack completed six. for a gain of
46 yards. McFadden bested Faucett in
kickoffs and showed the way to Park in
punting.

The game in detail:

First Quarter.

McFadden fizzled his kickoff and Eller-
be received it. He immediately fumbled
when Clark hit him like a ton of brick,
La Far recovering. An exchange of
punts was followed by a sensational
pass on the fourth down. McFadden to
Schenck, netting 25 yards. Moore
sliced 10 yards and a first down off right
end. After making a first down on
passes State lost the ball on downs.
Several line plays, a 15-yard pass to
Schenck and a nifty punt by McFadden
put the ball on State’s 20-yard line as
the quarter ended.

Last Thursday afternoon Hugh Brad-
ley defeated Curtic Ormond in the finals
of the Fall Tennis Tournament, thus
winning for the fall ‘the championship
of Davidson. Because of the R. O. T. C.
drill only a few witnessed the sensational
play of the two men who remained from
a field of 32.

Displaying a brand of ‘unbeatable ten-
nis, Bradley took three straight sets;
6-1, 6-1, 6-0. He followed his hard and
well-placed service to the net and sharp-
ly volleyed to uncovered points of the
court Ormond’s returns. Bradley’s drives
were the feature shots. Ormond elected
to play a back court game, seldom try-
ing for the net, but he was.unable to
get his drives past Bradley or his lobs
over him.

The match was harder fought than the
rather one-sided score would suggest.
The champion was simply at his best
form,

Second Quarter.

State punted, Moore making a nice re-
turn to State’s 48-yard line. Moore then
skipped through the line for 21 yards
and several ‘line plays carried the ball to}
the 10-yard mark. Shepherd then drop-|
ped back to the 25-yard mark and used!
his enlightened toe to advantage, plac-
ing the ball squarely between the up-
rights. The rest of the quarter was oc-
cupied in exchanges of passes.

Third Quarter.

Faucette kicked off and McFadden
was soon forced to punt. State then
started a drive for a touchdown but it
ended abruptly: when Faucette fumbled,
Schenck recovering. An exchange of
punts kept the ball in midfield: until the
period’ ended with Schenck intercepting
a pass.

D.

GREAT PEP MEETING HELD
PRECEDING STATE GAME

The livest, loudest, pep-meeting of the
year was held in Shearer Hall Friday
night in anticipation of the N, C. State
game at Charlotte’ the following’ day.
There was a larger number of boys there
than_usual, and all of them were armed
with paddles and sticks with which they
ruthlessly tormented the backs of the
seats. There was a loud deafening roar
of paddles, yelling, whistling, and stamp-
ing that preluded, and filled up the in-
tervals between the yells. Story, Price,
and Knox, after they had given.a few of
the regular yells and had sung “O
Davidson, put their heads together and
thought up two new ones. One, O D-a-
v-i-d-son, repeated three times with the
first two syllables of the word drawn
;out and the last one stressed, followed
| by team repeated three ‘times in quick
| succession. A second yell was given by
having one side of the room yell Hi

Fourth Quarter.

McFadden punted, Davidson recover-
ing when Moore intercepted a pass. The
Wildcats soon had the ball in position
for.a try at goal but Shepherd’s attempt
State marched
straight down the 25-yard line then
Faucette kicked a neat field goal, ticing
the score. With but five minutes. of
time left the Wildcats made their final
stab for victory, Receiving the kick-off
a series of passes 800n had the ball on
State’s 5-yard line. Running plays fail-
ing, Shepherd dropped back to the 20-
yard mark for a third try at a place
kick. But a State linesman broke thru
and the attempt was unsuccessful. The
game ended with tHe ball in State’s pos-
session in her own territory.

Davidson (3) Position N. C. State (3)/|

y . |
ae Taeiee = ioe Gera: tee Wild, the other, Hi Cats, then the whole
ae make RG CELTS age ae room came in on Hi, Hi, Hi, Wildcats,
Field... ie ee v Peat Wildcats, Wildcats. The bep stirred up
Brice ae SEL ty Ellerbel the student body at this meeting and
Divic, SoM a LT... aN a apa to the team by the former’s

cheering, was, no doubt, a great factor

C. in making the team fight as never be-

Davis,
Moore

“Blood and Sand,” Ibanez; “Galusha
the Magnificent,” Lincoln; “The Brim-
ming Cup,” Canfield; “Qld Plantation
Days,” Rutledge; “Chair on the Boule-
vard,” Merrick; and “While Paris Laugh-
ed,” Merrick.

for Brice; Sorreils for Clark; Black for
Faison; State: Baker for Ellerbe; John-

son for Hill; Strong for Holland.
D.

LIBRARY N NEWS.

The ‘Libracy paca acquired several new
books during the past two weeks. Among

Mrs, E. F. Shewtake and children are
them are papers of the late Dr. Re A. ae.

visiting: relatives in’ Gastonia

LITERARY NEWS

NEW LITERARY SOCIETY
FORMED MONDAY NIGHT

The Eumenean Literary Society at its
last meeting concluded a most heated
discussion on the matter of forming a
new society by passing resolutions in
which it assumed a friendly attitude to-
ward any new society that might. be or-
ganized, and voted its good will to ‘such
of its members as might desire to with-
draw for the purpose of entering the
new society.

It should be understood, however, that
the Eumenean Literary Society is neither
sponsoring nor organizing a new soci-
cty but simply assuming a friendly at-
titude and expressing a wish to co-
operate with any new society that may
be formed. This new society, if or-
ganized, will not be a part of the Eu-
menean Literary Society but a separate
and distinct organization.

Honorable discharges, together with a
full transfer of credits from the Eumen-
can Society, will be given to those men
who may wish to become members of
the new society. The new society will
also be allowed the use of the Eumen-
ean Hall‘until some permanent .arrange-
ments in regard to a regular place of
meeting can be made.

The debate for the evening was called
off in order to allow more time for the
discussion of the formation of a new
society. Declamations by W. M. Heston,
A. C. Wildman, and K. E. Luckie com-
prised the only part of the regular pro-
gram. These declamations were well
delivered and were thoroughly enjoyed
by the audience.

Those intérested in the formation ofa
new society met in the Eumenean Hall
Monday night and decided to form a
new organization. Tentative officers
were elected: President, J. P. Price; Sec-
retary, W. Arnett Gamble; Secretary, M.
R. Doubles. It was decided to meet on
Thursday nights at nine-thirty, the meet-
ings to be held for the present in the
Eumenean society hall.

D.

PHILANTHROPICS CHOOSE
THIS YEAR’S MARSHALLS

A short, but well prepared program in
the Phi Society last Thursday night was
followed by the election of Marshalls
for this year and the discussion of a
plan for forming a new society; the
latter submitted by Taylor,

The question for debate as announced
by the President was: Resolved: That in
the recently averted railway strike the
employees were not justified. Baldwin
and J. P. Booth upheld the affirmative,
claiming that the strike would not have
been justified from a legal standpoint,
from an economic standpoint, nor from
a moral standpoint. For the negative F.
S. Johnston and E. D. Brown defended
the threatened move of the employées
on the grounds that the railways were
run economically enough at present and
any move in this direction ought not to
hit the employees first, and that more
system in railway management would
remedy the situation. The decision was
two for the affirmative.

In the extemporaneous debate R. H.
Brown attempted to prove that a course
in music should be established at David-
son, But the arguments of McGeachy
prevailed over the oratory of Brown and
the decision of the judges was two for
the negative.

This closed the regular program of the
evening and the Marshalls for this year
were elected. T. A. Freeman was elece-
ed Chief Marshall,
shalls elected were J. F. Clarke, J. H.
McKeithen, L. A, Wooten, and J. W.
Baldwin.

L. A. Taylor,-chairman of the Commit-
tee on Division read the Agreement of

and the other Mar-

Division which was accepted by the
society. Wool, Wooten, and Burney,
miembers of the Committee on Division,
urged that the men back with all their.
energy either society they entered. This
committee was continued as an Equali-
zation Board to keep the division as
nearly equal as possible and at the same
time not have any man dissatisfied.
T).

FRATERNITIES INITIATE

FIVE ADDITIONAL MEN

Since the opening of school five men
have been, initiated into the different
fraternities on the hill.

R. C. Brake and F. K. Toney have been
initiated by Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

J. D. Steed has been initiated by Kappa
Alpha.

B. M. Hamer has been initiated by
Kappa Sigma.

R. W. Holmes has been initiated by
Beta Theta Pi.

H. F. Northrop has been pledged by Pi
Kappa Alpha.

D.

NOVELTY FOUR BEGINS
THE LYCEUM SCHEDULE

The Novelty Four presented the first
number of the Redpath Lyceum course
last Tuesday evening in Shearer Hall.
A splendid program was presented, con-
sisting of orchestral and individual in-
strumental numbers, quartet numbers
and readings.

The program began with an overture
of exceptional quality and feeling. This
was followed by various numbers which
made the Novelty Four live up to their
name, for anything was performed from
the making of a rag picture to a one-
arm recital.

Van O. Browne was easily the favorite
of the four, being a wonderful imperson-
ator and a gifted artist in music. He was
especially entertaining, when as Shylock,
he played in the first scene of the fourth
act of Shakespeare’s popular play, “The
Merchant of Venice.” As a Hindu prince,
he was able, beyond any doubt, to do
miracles, through his magic prowess.
Resides his ability as an impersonator,
Browne was gifted in the use of the
accordion, with which he played several
popular pieces. a

The quartette numbers were full of
both humor and classics Among the
numbers rendered were: Carry Me Back
to Old Virginny, Nellie Gray, Home
Sweet Home, and a recital with words
‘by Kipling. The program was closed by
an orchestral number of the latest and
“jazziest” jazz, with the use of the saxo-
phone, piccolo, violin and’ piano. The
unique costumes used were a feature of
the entertainment.

; D.
GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON
‘ INITIATES THREE MEN

The Gamma Sigma: Epsilon Chemical
Fraternity initiated three new members
last Friday night. They were: L. A.
Wooten, ’22; W. S. Buchanan, ’23; and
J. B. Sloan, ’23. The initiation was a
live one, followed by an informal feed.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is an honorary
chemical fraternity, only students who
have shown an interest in the subject
and made a grade of 85 or more for four
consecutive terms are eligible for mem-
bership.

The work on the hall is about com-
pleted. The interior has been painted,
the curtains hung, and furniture put in,
and a library will soon be added.

D.

S. D. Brice, ex-21, is playing end on
the Selma, Ala., Y. M. C.. A. football
team. Last fall he was a star forward
on their basketball team which was
recognized as one of the best in the
State.

Rackets

where in

5 W. Fourth Se $

Restrun

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers any-
the country. We can give you quick and
guaranteed service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.

EVERYTHING FOR THE a ook MAN
(Just off Tryon)

” Phone $248

=
