4

The D

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must bein the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

-Editor-in-Chief

AVIDSONIAN) Open Forum

Forum Editor |

. M. RICHARDS. . P. PI di
\. m: i MBLE, JR fanaging Editor j: S. CL Ka YOU e BHI
Kok DAWID : ,  SpRUN ocial’ Editor |
KG: ORMON ), H. ocDI terary Editor |
‘A, C) Summers__- -Alumni_ Editor W. J. COOPE ublicity Editor
fe See TMcKEITHEN....--.-.-Exchange E
REPORTERS’ CLUB
TZER, R., Prés. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, Wz, HESTON, “W. M. SH M, See.-Treas,
CALHOUN, M, P. We JC yy:
( i MACK AS » DB.
MAHOOD, D. I A.C.
MAUZE, E. } (O11,

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

Business Manager
SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

: } o ..-.-Circulation Manager Assi in Circulati Department:
Me RUSSELL and GoD. PULLER S. CURAING = DC, HENDERSON
re Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. Ly PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL:

“The secret of success is doing common things uncommonly well.”
i

LEAT)

Davidson’s famous fighting spirit was very much in evidence in
Charlottesville last Saturday, and, though fighting a loosing battle, the
Wildcats put up an exhibition of pluck and gameness of which no David-
son man need be ashamed.

1D.

A few years ago even the rashest student would hardly have dared

predict that Davidson would ever have a wireless station on her campus, | S'S'18 1 hen, and only then, can ee |
or.

Now that the establishment of such a station is a certainty, one wonders
what will come next.
D
With feature moving picttne shows appearing in the college gym-
nasium the same weck that they are drawing capacity crowds in Char-
lotte, Davidson is taking quite a rise in the cinema world, and the Y. M.
C, Avis to be-congratulated on securing such a class of entertainment.

D

It is not often that the student body has the opportunity of hearing

two speakers of such merit as Professor Graham and Dr. Brown on con’
secutive nights, and those who failed to hear them suffered a genuine
loss,

s .

i D
With our first reviews beginning this week, college life becomes a
grim reality once more,

D

HELP MAKE THE WILDCATS WILDER.
battle royal between the opposing sons of Calvin is sure to ensue.

strated in last Saturday’s game. Whether or not the students of 1921
ys §

will give such a team the support which it so richly deserves has not yet

been shown.

We believe that there is not a man on the campus of Davidson who

is not squarely behind his team and coach and who would not do alt in|
his power to help them. There is no better way of showing this interest |
in the power of the student body than well organized cheering at games.
It is hard for a team to play its best when the bleachers are silent and |
lifeless. It is still harder to stop a team which hears its supporters cheer- |
ing every play, and calling for its best endeavors. Let every true son of |
Davidson be on hand Friday, ready to follow his cheer leader and by his |
yelling to help make the Wildcats wilder than ever, :
; ! - D
A WORD TO OUR ALUMNI.

|
|

|

ct of promoting the

The Davidsonian is printed with the sole obje
Among the many tasks which fall |

best interests of Davidson College.
to us in the

important than that of keeping our alumni in touch with their alma |
mater.

Toward that end we have been working, and if we did not believe |
that we were succeeding to some extent we would not ask you to support |
us. by your subscriptions. .Of the-fact-that there is much room for im:
provement, however, we are keenly sensible, and it is to ask your aid in
making these improvements that this editorial is written. If you have
a suggestion for the paper which you feel will be helpful or an item of;
news which will be of interest to other alumni, send it in and it will be!
used. We believe that you can, if you will, help make The Davidsonian |
a better paper, and we are counting on you as loyal graduates to give us
this assistance. The publication is not only ours; it is yours. Help us
make it a success.

RIDAY afternoon affords the first opportunity for the student body
at large to see the Wildcats in action. In the eleven from Presbyte-
rian College, Davidson will mect a rival worthy of her steel, and a
The
fact that the Red and Black machine of 1921 has the fighting spirit which’
will make it reflect nothing but honor on its college was amply demon- |

I

:

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921.

—

|A GENTLEMAN’S AGREEMENT.

If Professor Graham did nothing else
jin his recent visit to the campus, he at
least made every man who heard him
|) speak, stop and think, a feat that is cer-

——} tainly hard to accomplish ‘in this day of him the day is too short, and the shadow

multitudinous college activities.

| To say that a man who does not put
out his best in his studies is untrue. to
himself, to his country, and to his God,
is certainly a broad statement, and yet
}it is true, every word. of it. And, judg-
ing by this statement, there are about
o8 per cent traitors and slackers on this
campus.

What is the reason for this lack
study nowdays. “Never let your studies
interfere with your ‘college course,”
seems to have become the motto of all
j today, to a greater or less extent.

ol

The reasons are many, and the writer
is not trying to point out all of them

in this short article, but will only men-!

tion one that is very evident to even
the casual onlooker, That is the fact
that a man has not the proper place t6
do the right kind of studying, Not that
jhe hasn't a table to put his book on, a
‘chair to sit on, and a light to help his
but is entirely too much
}going on around him for him tordo any
real concentrating. Too much noise in
his own room, in the room next to him,
lin the dormitory across the way. If
jhe wants to do real hard work, he must
| do it, in a great many cases, in spite of

eves; there

re ‘ *
jhis environment and not because of it. |

| What is the remedy? As we see it,
| there is one. That is that every man
jon the campus enter into a gentleman's
| Agreement to observe the hours from
) 8:00 till 12:00 in the evening sacred to
| study, That during that time, he re-
Ha fii from visiting anyone who is try
ling to get up his lessons for the next
}day, that he cut out all noises that will
| bother others, and that’ most of all he
{himself spend most of that time work-
jing his own brain and @etting it in the

best running condition possible by exer- |

lave a new interest in the matter
| study, can we shoot the professors more

regularly, can we give the honor roll a

ed lists,
The cause—the remedy
| going to do?

what are you
Py;
D

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Kathryn Worth left last week to
jassume her duties as- English teacher in
Charleston, W. Va.

Miss Frances, Worth will spend the
winter in Richmond, Va., at the Assem-
bly’s Training School.

|

‘end in Charlotte as the guests of friends
whom they knew in India.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin attended — the
meeting. of the Concord Presbytery at
| Valdese last week and from there went
to Hendersonville to spend the week-
lend, :

Mrs, C. G. Vardell and Miss Mamie

Steele, of Red Springs, were visitors in|

| town over Sunday.

Mrs. Lola Johnston has given up her
| position as teacher of the sixth grade. |
Her place will be taken. by Miss Rich- |

ardson, of Mocksville.

Knowledge’s Boundaries.
I know the name of every town in these
United States,
I remember names and faces, I am al-
ways sure of dates,

I still can recollect the taste of Harvey's |

Finest Blend, —
spout the Canterbury Tales
Shakespeare without end.

and

I have the kind of mind you thought was |

David Roth’s alone—

pursuit of this ideal, perhaps none is more difficult nor more | 2¥t ! can't think of the number when T)

want to telephone.

I can whistle a cadenza that I heard a
year ago,

There isn’t a philosopher
work T don’t know,

I know the names of birds and trees and
animals and herbs,

I_am_a-shark at German nouns, a won-
der at French verbs.

whose life

| I know the kings of Saxony and such-|

like/ useless bull—

few more members to add to its deplet- |

Dr, and Mrs, Porter spent the weck- |

A DAY'S WORK AND A DAY’S WAGE. |

Two men, two days’ work, two spirits
in working, two kinds of wages! One
man works as “an hireling,” toiling me-|
chanically and only for his “dollar,” |
longing for the “shadow” and the flung-
down tools. The other, a man, not a
machine, interested, animated, inspired, |
works as artist, idealist, enthusiast. For

of the setting sun comes all too soon.

“John Jones, what do you get out of
‘a day's work?”

“A dollar or two, curse it! Hard work
and poor pay!” |

“John Wesley, thou ‘busiest man in
England, what do you get out of your
18 hour day’s work?” |

| “Everything, bless God! Joy, strength, |
inspiration, divine reward—everything!
Glorious work and big pay!”

It’s all in the way you look at it.

I. Life is a day's work. It is “a day’s |
work,” for every man must work. That
is the inflexible law of the universe.
Christ said: “My Father worketh hith- |

Perto and T work.” The angels
ceaselessly. The living creatures “rest
Jnot day nor night.”” Man must work on
earth and in heaven he must. serve. Work
is the law of being, the condition of
health, the privilege of power, the joy of
life. And even those who foolishly seek
to escape working work the hardest of
“all, and suffer the uttermost of weari-
ness,

Each man must work; the question is |

serve

J whether he will work as “an hireling” or |

work as a hero, whether his work shalt |
be drudgery or shall be delight. And it
rests with him to decide,

Il. For his dayjs work of life tvery
man “receiveth wages.” Yes; no man
works in God's world and gets no pay!
Nor less than he And the pay
| is to “every man according as his work.”
Wages are absolutely adjusted to work.
There are no favorites and no preju-
“soft snaps with big pay” for
some, nor “hard berths with poor pick-
ings” for others.

earns,

dices; no

On superficial view this statement may
not seem to be true; but it is true, and
absolutely. Money isn't the only wage,
nor the best. Longfellow didn't get as
much gold as Jay Gould; but he drew
Digger “wages.” Paul of the mighty
| soul didn’t make as much money as mod-
ern millionaire, but he was better paid
got more out of life. “Every man shall
receive his own reward, according to his
}own labor.”
| I. Every man chooses his own day's
| work in life and so determines what his
own wages shall be. And that, whether
the be millionaire or bootblack.

“Two
women shall be grinding at the mill;”
set at the same task grows into
spiritual glory, the other shrivels into a
starving soul. “Both choose. Two men
shall sit side by side at the directors’
table of the greatest steel company in
| the world; one is a close follower of
Jesus, the other a purse-proud material-
ist. Each chooses his own way and his
pay. Their life surroundings are
similar; their chosen “day's work” and
|“day’s wages” in life are absolute con-
traries,

one

own

Elijah was an idealist because he chose
to be; Ahab was a materialist at his
own choice; and both received their ap-
| propriate “wages” in this world—and
no doubt in the other!

IV. What, then, to us is the measure
}of Labor Day?

1, That labor is the common heritage
of man, but may be a slavery or a splen-
dor according to our spirit.
|; 2 That life itself is just a “day’s
work,” with “a day’s wages.” That the
}main question is, how we look at our
| work; what we see in it; what we put
into it; what are our ideals, aspirations,
| enthusiasms ; in other words, .what
“wages” we ask for our life’s day’s work
| —the pay of “an hireling” who works for
dollars only, or the pay of a hero who
works for the Highest? '

3. And that all life is worthy which is
wrought for noble ends, be the sphere
of service high or low.

Browning pictures Theocrite, bending
at his bench pounding shoes and singing
| the while, “Praise God!’—Theocrite is
| carried away to Rome; and then at God's
| behest the great archangel Gabriel
| “spreads his wings and sinks to earth,”
| takes upon him the form of Theocrite,
jand in his lonely cell pounds shoes and
| sings, “Praise God!” As well content is
he, since he does God's will, to toil at a
cobbler’s bench as to stand with splen-
| did seeming in the sun. And his “wages”
are the same iin either sphere.

With this conviction “life becomes

But I never know which door to push,| great; labor becomes holy, being done

and which I-cugkt-to pull. —Ex;

for God. Spiendid inspirations fill even

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

“PEP.”
(By Grace G. Bostwick.)

Vigor, vitality, vim and punch—

That's pep. °
The coutage to act on a sudden hunch—

That's pep.
The nerve to tackle the hardest thing,
With feet that climb, and hands that

cling,

And a heart that never forgets to sing.

That's pep.

Sand and grit in a concrete base—
That's pep.

Friendly smile on an honest face—
That’s pep.

The spirit that helps when another's
down,

That knows how to scatter the darkest
frown,

That loves its neighbor and loves its
town.

That's pep.

To say “I will,” for you know you can—
That's pep.
To look for the best in every man—
That's pep.
To meet each thundering knockout blow
And come back with a laugh, because
you knoWy,
You'll get the best of the whole darn
show,
That's pep.
The Football World

SStuELA | p yas

There is a lurking suspicion in the
minds of many modest men and women
that somehow God made a little mistake
when He fashioned them, They think
that the Almighty justified Himself
when He made geniuses, and heroes, and
all carth’s greatest and most talented
sons, but they do not see just why God
made so many commonplace people like
themselves. But God made no blunder.
There could be no geniuses if there were
no common people to look after them
and help them. The blade of grass is
just as useful in its sphere as the pine
or the palm. The infinite ‘and the in-
finitesimal.are alike part of the divine
plan, And it is folly for us to under-
rate ourselves and to wish that God had
made us something other than we are,
and it is worse folly to try to copy some.
of clse...God, who made us, made us
wisely, and He meant us to fill our own
special niche, and, in doing that, we
shall find our greatest satisfaction and
our highest usefulness. If the world had
not needed just the service we can ren-
der, we should not be here, and God
expects that cach man will do his own
work.—The Christian Guardian,

“What is the reason,” began the irri-
tated traveler from the North, “that the
trains in this part of the country are
always behind time? I have never seen
one yet that ran according to its ched-
ule,”

“That, suh,” said the dignified Missis-
sippian, “is a matter easily explained.
It is due to Southern chivalry, suh.”

“Southern chivalry! Where does that
come in?”

“You .see, suh, the trains are always
late in this country because they wait
for the ladies, bless them !"—Harper's
Magazine.

“Tips, tips, nozzing but tips!” cried
the Frenchman on his first visit to New
York, “First ze vaiter, zen ze maid, zen
ze portair!”

‘He was about fed up. In one place,
where he went to wash his hands, he
saw the sign, “Please tip the basin.”

“I vill not do eet!” he fumed, “I will
go dirtee first, yes.”—Harper’s Magazine.
——==a"amaBan»>=>_—SX¥X——
the humblest .sphere with divine mean-
ing; and as we go out into fields of lowly
service where the spiritual grain is white
unto the harvest we-are thrilled by the
wondrous words of Christ, “He that
reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth
fruit into life eternal!”

“And they that be teachers shall shine
as the brightness of the firmament; and
they that turn many to righteousness
as the stars for ever and eyer.”—Rev.
Robert C. Hallock, D.D. in The Ex-
positor. :

