4 e

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘1s
« “The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Ciass.

7 SUBSCRIPTION RATES >

to Cents per Copy; $2.00. the Collegiate Year.

eee ee ,
All Arti be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
Ail Articles for Paptictes received from an unknown source will not be published.

we wa
J. M. Richards_..----~--~---------------- -------------neeeeeeeenee EWjtor-in-Chief

panne cnc ew nnn eee cewwnsweensnnnnnnn neues Managing Editor
1 cy samp ea waneennmewer nen -se enon nnnn- Assistant Managing Editor

H wnecemacececes cnneennnneeeneccccoee -Assignment Editor
Fe One ETT Aietie: Editor

enacncenoe eo ceneecenneeno-a------------Alumni Editor
f McKelthen. won nwnnonceecnennnenennnancannnaneneccceecene-- Exchange Editor
Price von enna serencceneeenenennenenascasacceeneccenennceeFOrUm Editor

>

=H.
. P.

tome Set

wececcesaccoc-anee---------------~------Campus Editor

c baile oe SY. M,C. A. Editor
prunt. eee pannnnnennnewececelonnenen-------------Social Editor
fen, Jro-.-------- ee, fon nn nnn nnn n-ne nen ew enna ..<Literary Editor

i. Choper Fi alicity Editor

E

oe Sot
unm

Pa)

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Mahood, D. L. Mitchell, W. M.
Mauze, G. W. Morris, H. M.
> Fewell, Ed. Phillips, -J. W.
Gracy, J. S. Tuller, C. D.
Heston, W. M. Mauze, E. H.
Ives, J. C. Walthall, D. B.
Lacy, T. A. Wildman, A. C.
Cox, W. M. Wildman, C. F.

Bitzer, R.
Cunningham, C. E.
Jones, J. R.

King, A. D. ’
Bradford, W. Z.
Cathoun, M. P.
Elliott, W. T.
Long, C. G.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

J. S. CURRY -..-~------------------20-- oanennono anne Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

iate P: Association to our campus. We know that their stay will

eth pleasant and profitable for us, and we trust that it may prove so
— — DJ —__..

Spring football practice is a new thing at Davidson, but the results

t institution here. From the looks of things on Sprunt

Field last Saturday, there, should be no lack of material for next fall’s

NEEDED, A YELL.

U NDER another department of this week’s paper there appears the

Davidson student. If you have not read this article, turn to the
athletic columns on page two and see for yourself what terms are laid
to every red-blooded man in the student body.

We are all proud of our Davidson spirit, that indefinable some-
lieve that it cannot be surpassed or even qualled in any other college
on earth—and yet in one respect we hayé fallen far behind our sister in-
reasons for this defect is the absence of any distinctive and snappy Da-
vidson yells.
sult was “O Davidson,” that tune which brings every Davidson man to
his feet with fresh enthusiasm and courage, and which compares fa-
bit of music proves that we have the necessary ability in our student
body. The question is, have we enough love of our college to get down

D-—____
WHY NOT?
to present their Varsity football players with sweaters, That these men
are worthy of such recognition, and far more too, for their work, no
grudges them this token of his esteem.
Yet why should the men of our other teams receive no honor?

J. C woo Circulation Manager

We are glad to welcome the delegates of the North Carolina Col-
for them. .
of this spring's work would seem to foretell that it will henceforth be
Wildcat eleven.

offer of certain prizes for the best new yells submitted by any

down. Such a contest affords not only an opportunity, but a challenge
thing that draws us together in a commonjlove of our college. We be-
stitutions. We refer to the cheering at our games. One of the main

Several years ago the call was issued for a college.song. The re-
vorably with ‘any college song in the country. The composing of such a
and rack our brains for the needed yells,

For some years it has been customary for the students of Davidson
one would think of denying, and there is not a man in college who
They too are giving their best for us, and we cannot fail to recognize

their efforts. Why should we not also provide both basketball and base-.

ball teams with sweaters ? .

It has been suggested that the students voluntarily agree to pay ad-
mission to one game of each sport held on the hill. Twenty-five cents a
man from each of our four hundred and fifty students would more
than buy sweaters for every letter man. It would be easy to start with
this spring by charging for admission to our last game with N. C. State.
Surely there is no one who would refuse to give a quarter for this pur-
pose, and we believe that the student body will gladly agree to such a
plan.

—=——==__—————>————————EEEoIUCLLL====____

Officials of Vassar College tonight an-
mounced that the registration list for
the class entering in September, 19235,
has been closed, four years and seven
‘months in advance of entrance Vassar
admits about 230 students as Freshmen

éach year, and already soo have regu-
larly applied for admission in 1925. There
are at present about 5,000 names on the
advance enrollment lists, including chit-
‘dren registered by their parents at birth.
—Mt. Holyoke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1921.

Open Forum

+

BACK CHEER LEADER.

Why is it that the Davidson student
body taking them as a whole do not
support the athletic teams as they
should, with special reference to cheer-
ing at contests?

We have the hardest fighting teams
of any college that we meet. We have
the best teams for the size student body
in the whole country, and as to the
spirit of our athletic teams and student
body I only need to quote the words
of one of the best known coaches in the
state: “I would rather for my sons to
have the ‘Davidson Spirit than the com-
bined knowledge of the faculty of the
University of North Carolina.”

Our teams are always fighting against
odds and it is only the fight and spirit
of Ole Davidson that carries them on to
victories over teams that have twi.: our
number to pick from as well as n :mer-
ous coaches and coatly equipment.

For a long time we have suffered for
the lack of a competent cheer leader.
We can complain of that no ‘longer, as
we now have'a man that will work and
put everything that he has into the job
just as any true Davidson man will.

Now are we, the student body of Da-
vidson College, going to lie down on the
job or are we going to back him to a
man?

Some of the upper classmen, in fact a
great many of them, seem to have the
idea that when a “pep” mecting is called
it is only meant for Freshmen. It is not
meant for Freshmen any more than it is
meant for upper classmen, and that

means you

If you are too good, or think you arz,
to get down and yell when a good play
is made or when the team is needing
every bit of strength and energy it has
along with your support, then you are
not a fit representative of a Davidson
student body and this is not the place
for you. Davidson doesn’t need you, and
the best thing to do is leave. What we
need is a student body of red blooded
American boys that are willing to sup-
port her teams win or lose, and not a
bunch of modern lounge lizards that are
willing to brag on a team when she wins
and call it OURS, and then when it loses
go off and run the coach, players, and
the whole college in the ground, saying
this is the sorriest place in- the world,
the rottenest team I have ever seen, anc
so on, till a good night of study is lost.

Now fellows let's get behind our teams
and show them that we are willing to
help in every way, for we are. At a
baseball game let's all sit together ant
when Sam calls for a yell, let's give it
with every ounce of strength just as
those fellows out there on the field are
doing. . .

Don't be a slacker! If you aren't a
good enough man to make a Varsity
team, then show everybody that you are
the best supporter that that team has
and in this way show that you are proud
of your team (for it is a team to be
proud of) and willing to back it to the
last out.

Fellows, we lack material here for cur
teams, but what we lack in men’ let's
make up in spirit.

Altogether—everybody—all the time
pull for our team just as hard when ir

loses as when it wins. D**.
. ep
onASS TEAMS PRIMING
FOR SPRING BATTLES

Who's going to be the champs in the
1gat class baseball series? The Juniors
tan off with the basketball honors but
from all appearances they will have to
do some steady work if they expect to
be victorious in baseball also. The
Fresh and Sophs expect to show alt
comers a lively time and the Seniors
(though seriously interested in diplomas
at this time) are expected to be out in
full force.

At separate meetings during the latter
part of last week the classes elected the
managers and captains for the coming
class baseball series. The Freshmen
and Senior classes failed to elect cap-
tains—leaving that to the judgement of
the team. The elections were as fol-
lows: Manager Senior team, Sam
Brady; Junior team, George Cornelson;
Soph team, Bascom Sorrells ; Fresh team,
A. M. Hitlhouse. Frank McLeod and
“Mickey” McKay were elected captains
of the Junior and Soph classes, respec-
tively.

As yet no schedule has been arranged.

A 2
Vy

WS;
ca
=p

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

LOVELY SCENE.

We stood at the bars as the sun went
down,

Beneath the hilis on a summer day.

Her eyes were big, and tender, and

brown,
Her breath as sweet as the new-mown
hay. U

Far from the west the faint sunshine

Glanced sparkling off her golden hair,

Those calm deep eyes avere turned on
mine,

And a look of contentment rested there.

I see her bathed in the sunlight flood,

I see her standing peacefully now.

Peacefully standing and chewing her
cud,

As I rubbed her ecars—that Jersey Cow.

—Ex.
D——___

COLLEGE LIBRARIES.

In the libraries of all the universities,
colleges, and technical schools of the
country there are 20,234,734 volumes.
Higher institutions in New York lead
with 2,470,185. States following closely
in order are Massachusetts, 2,168,323;
IHinois, 1,603,670; Pennsylvania, 1,382,-
418; Ohio, 1,248,190; and Connecticut,
1,205,300.

D—____..

THE LOVERS’ LAMENT.

Be she went?’ Am she gone?

Are she left I all alone?

Ot cruel fate, you is unkind

To take she fore and leave I hind!

She must surely come to me;
For I cannot go to she.

What has went and parted we?
Alack! It cannot was!
Dp———_——___
LIFE.

. Firet Episode
How do you do? Glad to meet you!
Second Episode
Isn't the moon bright
Third Episode
Smack!
Fourth Episode
Honor and obey’
Fifth Episode
Da: Da: Da:
Sixth Episode
Where in sam hill’s dinner?—Ex.

Students registering in the new course
given in aviation at the University of
Illinois, must first gain their parents’
consent. The. University has taken such
action to safeguard itself against .com-
plications in case of accident.

In May the University of Virginia will
celebrate the centennial of its founda-
tion and hopes to receive at that time
$3,000,000 as a birthday gift from its
alumni and friends.
pD—_____
REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS

OFFICERS AND NEW MEM.
BERS FOR COMING YEAR

At the regular meeting of the Re-
porters’ Club on April 8th the officers of
the club were elected for the coming
year. The nominees for president were
men of the rising Senior class, being, in
order, Bitzer, Cunningham, and Lacy.
After counting the vote Bitzer was
found to have been elected to pilot the
Reporters’ Club during the coming year.
The election for vice-president was then
gone into and G. W. Mauze was chosen
to fill this position. H. M. Morris was
elected secretary-treasurer. x.

Each year a list is submitted by the
Davidsonian staff of such students regu-
larly reporting for the Davidsonian dur-
ing the year drawing to a close as have
made a record of not less than 95 per
cent in faithfulness in turning in write-
ups on assignments given and not less
than 90 per cent in punctuality in turn-
ing in write-ups by the time specified;
also a list composed of men regularly
reporting for the Davidsonian and who
have fulfilled the above requirements,
made up of not more than one sugges-
tion from each member of the Reporters’
Club. From these lists Reporters’ Club
members are chosen.

In accordance with the above require-

N.C. C. P. A. NEWS SERVICE

STUDENT GOVERNMENT GROWING
POPULAR IN N. C. COLLEGES.

ANNUAL SPRING CARNIVAL AT
QUEENS.

Queens College, April 16th—The an-
nual Queens Carnival opened Saturday
afternoon with a parade in town, fea-
turing “wild women,” caged animals,
freaks of nature, Japanese girls, tight
rope walkers, wild and wooly Western-
ers, ets. At 8:15 the carnival opened
with a minstrel given in the auditorium.
The mid-way was opened after the min-
stret with galaxy of side shows to amuse
the crowd A French tea room, a Japa-
nese tea room, peanut and popcorn vend-
ers, candy girls, and hot-dog stands fur-
nished the “eats” for the occasion.
D——____

CAROLINA PLAYMAKERS TO
PRESENT NEW PLAYS

Chapel Hill, April &8—The sixth series
of original one-act plays is now being
worked up by the Carolina Playmakers.
The offering this time wilt consist of
one tragedy and two comedies. The per-
formance is scheduled for April 29th and
3oth, and later a state trip will be taken.
D—___

N. E. INTERCOLLEGIATE SWIM.
MING ASSOCIATION ORGANIZED

Boston—Organization of a New Eng-
land, Intercollegiate Swimming Associa-
tion was ‘announced today. Amherst,
Brown, Dartmouth, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology and Boston Univer-
sity have already subscribed to it and
Harvard, Williams and Wesleyan are
understood to be ready to join at a final
organization meeting here next Satur-
day.—Yale News.

D——__
DEFEAT OF CAROLINA IS
MARKED BY GREAT PARADE

“Fresh out, Fresh out” was the cry
from one end .of the campus to the
other, when about 7:00 o'clock Tuesday
evening the joyous news of our victory
over Carolina reached here.

Just as Arebus spread. his wings of
darkness o'er the universe, the upper
classmen had organized ‘themselves and
under the leadership of “Bolivion Bult
Bumper Story,” started on their roundup
of Freshmen, with the famous cry of
“Fresh Out” heard so many times by us

, | in former years with horror. The shiv-

ering, timid, pusilanimous Freshmen
were soon driven from their r 8
{where when found they seemed tobe
engrossed in studies) to the campus
where they were formed in line for a
snake dance, music being furnished by
their voices, tin pans, and other “Schwi-
nette” instruments. .

With Story leading the grand march,
they were drawn up in front of Dr.
Woods’ home to hear his dope on base-
ball. When he made his appearance he
was grected with cheers. After his
speech Story leaped upon the porch and
in a stgunch “mezzo-contralto” voice led_
the crowd in a cheer for “Billy.” A simi.’
lar program was carried out at the
homes of Drs. Sentelle, Douglas, Shew-
make, J. M. McConnell and Currie. At
Dr. Grey’s yard there was a series of
speeches. Coach Grey made a good talk,
then Dr. Harding, and as he was finish-
ing his speech Dr. J. W. McConnell was
tackled on the sidewalk and made a hu-
morous speech throwing bouquets at Dr.
Harding. Dr. Hunt was not at home,
much to our sorrow; then after other
minor, interesting features the Fresh-
men returned to their rooms with a last-
ing impression of the spirit of “Old Da-.
vidson.”

iY
ments the following students were elect-
ed at the last meeting of the Club:
Mauze, E. H.; Gracy, J. S.; Witdman, A.
C.; Fewell, E.; Bradfard, W. Z.; Elliot, ~
W. T., Walthall, D. B.; Ives, J. C; Cal-
houn, M. P.; Wildman, C. F.; Heston,
W. M.; Cox, W. M. -

Under the direction of the new presi- |
dent and his assistants the club should

make even more lively the “Livest Wire
on the Hill.”

————— J
TOWN NEWS.
Mrs. Ervin, who has been critically
ilt with pnewmonia, is steadily improving.
Mr. F. L. Jackson spent a part of last
week in Lumberton, N. C

Miss Sarah Lingle spent the week-end
at home.
