Watch
Wilson
Issue

Out For
Class
Football

SONIAN

FO

A. BETTER DAV

—

IDSON

Vol. IX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. DECEMBER 9, 1921.

No. 14

John B. Ratto Delights in
Fine Impersonations ‘

Second Lyceum Attraction is High-
ly Pleasing to All in Attendance.

SENIOR CLASS LAUNCHES
PLAN TO HELP
ATHLETICS

Old Newspaper Tells of
Chambers in Early Days

The Senior Class on Monday morning
voted to establish a permanent alumni
loan fund in order to enable athletes

Interesting Description Given by
Rev. Dr. McNeill in Year 1858.

O ADDITIONAL LITERARY
SOCIETIES COMMENCE
WORK

TW

Students Preparing For
Class Football Classic

Plans which have been in the course of Tay ee en
formation for some time at Davidson Members of Wildcat Gridiron Squad
hipping Classmate Into Shape

have finally materialized and two new

,to attend school here who would other-
wise be unable to-do so,
Coach Grey put the proposition be-

John B. Ratto, impersonator, presented
an excellent piogram jn the second

The following extract written by one

of the editors of the North Carolina

literary societies have been formed, with
the purpose of extetiding to every man
in college the opportunity for training

Although the regular football season
is over, the ardent devotes of the grid-

number of the Redpath Lyceum Course
Friday night in Shearer Hall.

The program was varied with plenty,
of life and fun. At no time during the
entertainment was there a lull and the
audience kept guessing
might be the next performance. |

Mr. Ratto started the program with |
a humorous and tongue-twisting mono-
logue of an Irishman who wanted to go
to Morrow today. Following this bit of
fun was an impersonation of an “ole,
timey” country-man, which was especi-}
ally good. The next character was a very)
strict and religious old» minister who!
went to a footbalk game in which his
son played. This impersonation proved |
beyond any doubt that preachers are |
just'as human as anyone clse. |

Probably the best character portrayed
was that of a poor prisoner who had,
just returned from the penetentiary and
was arrested again. In his plea to the |
judge for justice, of the ladies |
were seen to bring out their handker-!
chiefs, so perfect was the impersonation. |

Another character presented |
was that of an Italian, which showed |
the customs and habits of that race.

The last number was a series of his-|
toric characters, including King Peter, |
of Servia, ex-President © Poincaire, of |
France, King Albert, of Belgium, Lidyd |
George, ex-President Roosevelt, General |
Foch, General Pershing, Woodrow Wil-|
son and Uncle Sam. These impersona-|
tions were exceptionally and,
showed that Jno. B. Ratto is a genius in!
his art. |

|

what.

was

some

good

good

D.
ROCK HILL “Y” SECRETARY

SPEAKS HERE NEXT

SUNDAY.
Robert E. Mell, the Y. M. C. A. sec-!

retary at Rock Hill, will speak at the).

service next Sunday night. He is!
an enthusiastic member of the Pocket |
Testament League and may speak on
that subject.

Mr. Mell graduated from Georgia |
Tech, and shortly after joined the}
Aviation Corps of the army, in which he|
served as an observer during the World|
War. For the last four years he has |
been the secretary at Rock Hill.!
Older students may remember that Mr.
Mell led the singing several years ago
when Dr. A. S. Johnson, of Charlotte,
held protracted meetings here.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

lcontribute

jabled to come to Davidson by borrowing

jalumni, athletic teams can be put on the

la strong appeal to the men to cease

Presbyterian (of which the Presbyterian
Standard is the successor) of Fayette-
ville, N. C., February 1838, written by

fore the class and every man voted to
ten dollars a year
consecutive years after graduation. An
eflort will be made to have 1,500 alumni
make the same contribution which will

for five

De
one of the students, will be of interest
at this time:

pal rie “That which attracts the visitor's
in five years make a total of $75,000, ' _
, Fi ears ay Notice now more than anything else is

A Davidson Alumni Association will ry ; tr :
i ; ; the edifice (Chambers Building) whieh

be formed with an alumni secretary. . ; , F
is now in the Process of construction,

located here at the college, whose duty
will be to keep in close touch with the
alumni by sending them monthly bul-
letins or letters,

If this plan is fully carried out there
will be many athletes who will be en-

five feet high and ready for the floor.
“When the building is finished it will
be one of the largest, handsomest, and
most in the land,
the politeness of Mr. Schotield the con-

convenient Through
tractor, we learned the dimensions and
The center ‘building is 80 by 170
feet, including portico, which is 30 by 8o.

money from this fund who would other-
have to institution
where. he would be paid for playing col-
Davidson has

plans,

Wise gone some

i The columns of the portico are 4s feet
lege football or baseball. I ; #8

; Rae j high and © feet in diameter. The two

never made a practice of this. With the | f ; }
. : ; “wings mre 107.0 in length, go feet in

hearty backing and co-operation of-the —. Fe ; A ‘ ee
width. Three stories high, 35 feet. The

center building is 55 feet high. The first

field which will give the old school a
in athletics throughout the
South that will be even greater than in

va story of the latter has 6 large recitation
position
rooms, the second story has the chapel

; and library rooms. The chapel is 8o
former years. ‘ ;
=D feet square. In the two wings are to
‘ ; ; ; be 60 double rooms a5 by 18.6. The cor-
Mrs. Hugh Grey and sister, Miss Clara): Savannah : ;
5 ‘ , ; ridor through the wings is 8 feet wide
Bake, left last week for Greenwood, oy ;
Cc and through the center building is 20

feet.

“According to the contract, the build-
ing is to be finished by July, 's0 and the
the
ready for occupation by students next
January. The whole cost will be $80,000."
ST) eee

Prof. Wm. L. Porter Makes
Fine “Y” Address

Subject of “The Path of Life”
Helpfully Discussed Last

contractor hopes to have

Sunday. Polity Club Discusses
With Prof. Wm. L. Porter as the Digarmament Conference

speaker, the “Y" service of Jast Sunday
proved to rank among the best of the
year. When Dr. Fraser of Queens Col-|
lege could not come because of illness

Wallace Moore and Russell Read
Papers—Open Meeting Planned
For December 13th.

in his family, Professor Porter willing-
ly agreed to take his place. Basing his!
talk on the words “Thou wilt show me
the path of life,” Professor. Porter made

The Polity Club held its regular meet
ing in the History room Tuesday even-

ing, November 2oth. Two papers were

ee : read and discussed: “The Armaments |
drifting aimlessly and to form some... ; Re ‘
wae u , mS : Conference and How it Affects Great
definite purpose in life. Then it was!) .. eae le
ty ; Britian,” by H. K. Russell and “The
shown how to go about finding that pur-

|/Armaments Conference and How it Af-

pose. le i ;
I fects Japan,” by Wallace Moore.

All people are anxious to know what
the future holds in store for them, How-
ever, their many efforts to read ahead
are without avail, unless they have a de-
pendable guide. In the adventure of life
we can have that guide if we will only
believe “Thou wilt show me the path of
life.”

It has been the of the) wa é :
world over and over again’ that those | for Japan’s suspicion that she is being
who seek a crown of success by way of discriminated against _in_the-§-5-3 ratio
the primrose path of pleasure always 29d in the United States immigration
meet with death. It is certain that all laws. Then in a masterly way he discus-
self-directed lives lead’ downward, while sed the issues which Japan has at stake
all God-directed lives lead upward. jin the conference.

But with science,
many other things beckoning a man,
how is he to know which one to follow?
The correct decision may be arrived at

In the first paper, Russell showed that
‘Great Britian must depend her
jnavy for her support; her .ery life it-
lself depends upon the position which
she now holds as mistress of the sea.

upon

and geographic conditions, from person-

experience al observation, and, concrete reasons

and so}
“program committee announced the pro-
)gram for the next meeting, “A Miniature
Armaments Conference.” England,
by answering these questions: What am) France, Italy, Japan, China, and the U.
I able to do? What do I want to do?|5. will be represented: Each representa-
and, what should I do? Look at the tive will introduce his diplomats with a
need and God will point out the path | brief word of introduction, giving their
to follow. | Present position in their respective coun-

God has a plan for your life. The|tries and what they have done hereto-
question is whether or not you wilk find|fore to merit their seats at the con-
that plan. THOU WILT SHOW me the| ference. He will then give the outstand-

business,

The foundations of granite are already |

wings |

aes en
| Moore, in his paper gave the economical |

After a discussion of these papers, the,

along literary lines. Committees have [TOM SPert WALL TEM Bon ee Mis
Pecnwanpaimredeto scien aiaiicenronnliG nities to see the wearers of the pigskin
organizations, and constitutions and by- OL For class football is on tap.
laws are being drawn up. Vhe cleated shoes, headgears and other

i ; ; sridiron garments are making df:
One society will be composed of men ® B ts are making one last

‘ i date ‘ . star before ‘tiring i favor { basket-
frotie the State at North Carolin: wlio a Hy yefore retiring in favor of basket
rall,

Last year, owing to the unfavorable
Weather, but one class game was play-

desire to enter into the work of public
speaking, The officers elected for this
society are: W. OM. MeLeod, president;
K.P. Brown, viee-president: W. Z. Brad-
ford, secretary; L. 2. Burney, treasurer: :
Ay Dagdoty ist orities We Dy Ieiinte: schedule can be run off. Although the

ed. This year with the permission of

the weathersman it is hoped that a full
Isecond critic; i C, Douglas, first super dates have not been definitely arranged,
visor; G. M. Morrow second supervisor, |! 'S probable that the first game will be
played Monday.

principally of men who hail from states) Much will added to this
other thay North Carolina, The officers) Year's campaign because of the equality

The other society will be composed

interest he

ares J.P. Price, presidents W. A. Gamble, Of the teams. Coach Grey's announce-
vice-president; W. M. Cox, seeretary;| Ment that several men in addition to
J] C. Bailey, first critic. Other officers those who won the coveted “D" will be

have not been clucted: ineligible, seems to have placed all the

The formation of these two organiza- | teams on about the same level.

upon decided La Par will manage the affairs of the
vanee step in the literary work of the Senior team and with the abundance of
that

great success,

tions is looked as oa ad

college, and) indications they material on hand, is sure to turn out a
will made Many) good team. The other letter
men who have heretofore been entirely also assist in getting the
fout of literary society4 work have placed) dition, Sam Davis as manager and Jim

are

be a will

squad in’ con-

men

their names upon the rosters of the! Allen as captain will have quite a task in
ipiloting the Juniors to the championship
Warbor, but they feel confident that they

hew organizations,

Alumni Reepeiation For
Athletics Inaugurated

Definite Plans Made at Annual
Meeting of Charlotte Chapter.

can add the football, championship to
that of basketball, already won. “Doe”
De Armon will manage the Soph team
and with the aid of the class’ five letter
men to put out strong tean.
The Freshman cleven is generally con-

is sure a
ceded to have the inside track in the
Jim Hendrix who will handle the

of the year a

|
| aps race,

| At the anntal meeting of the Char- atfairs

Hlette Chapter of the Alumni Association, wealth of material at his disposal and
held last Friday night in Charlotte, alis sure to put out a team that will bear
|movement was launched for the organi- watching,

lyation of a general Alumni Athletic As-|

sociation having as its purpose the Pro- ji, tryout for the coveted places on the
ALSO teams and the spirit of rivalry and class
CMSUINE feeling: will run high,
he played before the Christmas holidays

first men has

Many men in cach class are expected
moting of athletics at Davidson,
the clection of officers for the i All games are to:
year was held, resulting in the following |

men being chosen, M. Brevard Me-| jf possible and the championship will
Dowell as president, to succeed Dr, Rei soon be decided, Each team will play
IH Lafferty, who served as toastmaster | iy ree ganies; ’

jat the dinner and Dr. Oren Moore as! pte ee
vice-president. Dr. W. J. Martin spoke | :

on “The Relation of the Alumni to the) Miss Margaret Adams, a popular

College.” In the course if his speech he | teacher us ues city school, SERRATE
Halll (lice oft ine con- | £0, Rock Till W ednesday for an oper-
j ditions at the school and how the faculty | #00" for appendicitis, Miss SH

) Potts is substituting for her in the fifth

alumnt congested

Madge

land students were handicapped as a re-}
jsult of the loss of Chambers building, | Brade.
But he concluded his talk with a brighter |
|picture, that out of the ruins of old | *

| Chambers would grow a better building. | *

co o 1 4 * *

WHAT'S DOING.

*

| Doctor Martin’s address was followed) + Thursday—7 45 p.m., Phi and
by short speeches from members of thes Iu Societies.

| faculty and prominent alumni, who gave | + 8:00 p. m., New Literary Soci-
expressions of loyalty to Davidson and) eties. 5

jan increasing need for better co-opera-)%* Gaturday—Z:15 p. m., Alice

‘tion among the alumni in securing more, x
athletes, better equipment, and increased *
jendowment for the institution. Among) »:
| those who spoke were Dr. W. J. Martin, | *
|Trof. W. W. Wood, Dr. J. M. Douglass,
| Coach Grey, Mr. R. A. Dunn, of Char-
lotte, Mr. R.JM. Miller, Jr., Dr. Oren
Moore, Dr. John Peter Monroe, Dr.
Hamilton McKay, and Dr. A. A, Me-
Geachy,. of the Second Presbyterian
Church, Charlotte.

After the speeches the Wildcat quartet
added much ‘to the pleasure of the occas-

Brady, in “Little Italy.”
Sunday—10:00 a. m., Volunteer
Band,

1:00 p. m., Christian Endeavor
Training Class.

1:30 p. m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p. m., Doctor Hood's Bible
Class.

4:30 p. m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p. m., “Y” Service.
Monday—7 :00 p. m., Bible Class
Leaders’ Meeting.
Tuesday—6:45 p. m., Fresh Eu

*

RRR MRE HH HH RN He ele Ke MK Re KR KR KR KR &

*
*
*
Ba
a
*
*
*
+
4

*
*
*
x

path of life. The singing of “Drifting”|ing problems of his country, how they|sion by rendering several pleasing selec- Society.
- by Sorrels, Buchanan, Crane, and AlI-| wish them settled and what effect the] tions. : : Wednesday—9 :00 p. m., Bible
A fortnight of work, then | ison added to the effectiveness of the| Proposed limitation of armaments pro-| The chapter had as its special guests Classes. ~
Santa Claus! service. The meeting was lead by J.| gram will have upon his country. Rea-|of the evening, this year’s football let- Thursday — New ‘Davidsonians
Sprunt. Allison, as long leader, was as|S0ns will be given for the approval or/ter men. At this time the election of Arrive,
efficient as ever, (Continued on page 3) (Continued on page 3) ace, Saeed, eens, eee, Sere, Shears, foes
,

Bs

HOW MUCH DO YOU STUDY?

ie
