THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron | -

Ga. Tech repeated last year’s perfor-
mance by taking the long end of a 42-0
game from the Old North State Baptists.
We're willing to bet, or wager, they
won’t repeat last year’s score at the
Wildcat’s expense.

—P. C. Tomorrow—

Our Turkey Day opponents, Furman,
got a running start by trimming the
Seceders 42-7. In the last three years
they have rolled up a total of 126 points
against Erskine’s seven.

—Wildcats— ;

Wake Forest is without their line
plunging and pill booting wonder, Ra+
benhorst. Heckman, their star end of
last year, has been shifted to the pilot’s
position in the backfield.

—Wildcats—

“Runt” Faucette, of State, seems to
have fully recovered from a broken
ankle sustained during baseball season,
for in the game against Randolph-Ma-
con he went in in the last two minutes
and scored a touch down.

—Wildcats—

The Flying Squadron from V. M. I. has
lost some of its wings. The best they
could do last Saturday was a 13-0 score
over Roanoke.

—P. C. vs. D.C.

Carolina and Wake Forest mix on
Saturday. Coach Bill Fetzer’s pigskin
handlers have always been among the
best in the South and Saturday’s game
will give football fans a line on his
eleven. We're for you Coach Bill ex-
cept on November 12th,

—Pep Tomorrow—

P. C. has had all the breaks of the
game for the last two years. Against
them tomorrow will be the old Wild-
cat fighting spirit plus a year’s pang for
revenge. Lookout Blue Stockings.

% —Revenge Is Sweet— .

Class basketball starts inside of two
weeks. Get out and work for your
class for the series promises to be close.

—Wildcats—

The fall tennis tournament is to be
run off in the near future. The courts
have been put in shape and prospects
are bright for a winning team this
year.

—Wildcats—

Following are the games to be play-
ed on October Ist.

Ga. Tech vs. Oglethorpe, at Atlanta.

Centre vs. Clemson, at Danville.

S. C. vs. Erskine, at Columbia.

Va. vs. George Washington.

W. and L. vs. Randolph Macon.

Furman vs. Newberry.

V. M. I. vs. Hampden-Sidney.

D.

VA. DEFEATS WILDCATS

(Continued from page 1)
the Davidson backs frequentiy tore
through the heavy Virginia line for long
gains. Bethea and Moore were espe-
cially adept in this smashing style of
play.

In spite of their defeat, the Red and
Black colors wére never lowered, and
their clean, plucky spirit coupled with
a Wildcat’s fight and gameness made a
marked impression on the’ spectators.

Virginia. Position. Davidson.
Davis__- BBsce Faison
ShackJeford______ OS hee ates -----Davis
MON WiGKss se ises ca Ge sseasoee LaFar (C)
Hankins___ Brice
Hallbses cose eR Gi ens Hunter
Clark___ sooo Clarke
Michie meer Ud) Schenck
Witt----- QB Moore
Rinehant(G)essccsluhacacacsecaaae Bethea
Oppelman-_-__-___.RH__________ Sheppard
Maphis-_-_----___- EB W.s<sse<s==<5-= Long

Score by quarters: Totals.
Davidson ~------_---.__. 0 0 0 Oo
Mitgintals so 2 82s se 7 7 0 14—28

Summary: Touchdowns — Virginia,
Rinehart, Foster, Harris, Stephenson,

Goals from touchdown—Hall (3), Harris
(1). Substitutes: For Virginia—Die-
trick for Michie; Foster for Witt; Hub-
bard for Oppleman; Michie for Dietrick;
Oppleman for Hubbard; Blackford for
Clark; Ward for Fenwick; Hubbard for
Oppleman; Harris for Maphis; Robert-
son for Hankins; Campbell for Michie;
Zundel for Davis ; Winston for Shackle-
ford; Carrington for Foster; Roney for
Blackford; Luke..for . Hall; Hennessey

for Ward; Stephenson for Zundel; Dunn
for Harris; Weaver for Winston. Da-
vidson—Fields- for Brice; Homer for
Hunter; McAllister for Sheppard; Allen
for Homer; Sorrells for LaFar. Referee
Gooch (Virginia). Umpire—Harrison
(Washington and Lee). Head Linesman
—Heywood (South Carolina). Time of
quarters—12 and 10 minutes.

D.

PROSPECTS BRIGHT FOR
WIN OVER BLUESTOCKINGS

With such a slogan as “Revenge is
Sweet,” the Wildcats will enter the
game tomorrow with a do-or-die spirit
and a determination to keép the| Blue
Stockings from spilling the dope for the
third successive year. The team is far
from being disheartened by their defeat
at the hands of Virginia for the Old
Dominion is recognized to have an
eleven that will carve a name for itself
in the annals of Southern football.
Since Saturday, Coach Grey has had sev-
cral days of practice in which to work
cn the weak points of the team and the
Red and Black machine should have ev-
ery cog in working order when it trots
on the field to meet the Presbyterians
from Clinton, In addition the team
gained a wealth of experience from the
game Saturday while the Blue-stock-
ings will make their debut with the
game on Sprunt Field tomorrow,

Down at Clinton, prospects are far
from dazzling. Coach Johnson has but
five of last year’s veterans again in har-
ness—three in the line and two in the
backfield—in opposition to our seven
letter men. Since the first call for can-
didates, however, he has been hard at
work stopping up the more or less ser-
ious gaps in his cleven, and the South
Carolinian’s will arrive on the Hill in-
spired by their success of the past two
years and with hopes .of turning the
trick again. Go get ’em, Wildcats, we’re
all behind you.

D.

SOPHS DEFEAT FRESHIES
IN ANNUAL BASEBALL GAME

The Sophomores defeated the Fresh-
men in their annual baseball game Sat-
urday afternoon to the merry:tune of 6
to 2. A large crowd of fans turned out
to see the classic game of the year and
were furnished with an excellent ex-
hibition of the national pastime. The
game, as usual, was hotly contested, but
the superior intellectual powers of the
“Terrible Sophs” proved the winning
factor. The “bugs” in the stands re-
ceived plenty of thrills throughout the
contest by the spectacular fielding and
heavy hitting of both clubs.

The Soph = stands went wild as
Boushee, their star southpaw ‘climbed
the mound. His fast one looked good,
and-all seemed rosy for a victory, as
the first two Fresh up were easy, but the
upper classmen had not heard of the
fame of “Babe” Maxwell, and as the
Wilmington lad grooved a fast one this
young Fresh leaned on it for the circuit.
“Boush” tightened up at this point and
by the aid of pretty fielding held the
Fresh helpless until the ninth when they
pushed over. their other tally. Pinch
Hitter Matthews got life in an outfield-
er’s error, and scored when Goode
knocked one for a country mile. Keels,
the lanky catcher caught two men at
the plate in this inning,

“Red” McPherson held the Sophs in
check until the lucky seventh when they
pushed over five tallies. Fenton started
the fireworks by knocking the ball. to
the race track which was good for all
four sacks and four more if he had
wanted them. Keels then scored Her-
sey and Boushee who had singled, with
a screaming triple to right. Hixon, the
S. C. wonder singled, stole second and
scored-on-€urdt's hit to center. This
ended the Soph’s scoring in this period,
but they tallied in the next frame when
Babe Hersey smashed a fast one to left
scoring Smith who had singled. Her-
sey, Overton and Curdts were the field-
ing wonders of the Sophs, while Pleas-
ents and Mallory looked good in the
field for the Fresh. Keels and Morrison
both caught good games.

D

N. W. Shepherd, ex-’23, has returned
to Davidson for a short- visit. He has
been pitching for the Little Rock club
of the Southern League during the past
summer,

SUCCESSFUL CHAUTAUQUA

(Continued from page 1)

The ever-increasing communication and
transportation of the United States
binds the people into a single social body
and makes them inter-dependent. A
spirit of “each for all and all for each”
is the only one-which can give harmony
of life, Dr. Gilver told his audience.

Miss Fitzpatrick, “the Kentucky song
bird,” gave a number of popular as well
as classic selections, the best of which
was “I Love You.”

Mr. Plumstead and Moomaw were de-
cidedly the most gifted performers on
the program. The impersonations of a
country choir singer, a broken-down ac-
tor, and a mischievous youngster, by Mr.
Plumstead, and a series of highly ap-
plauded accordion numbers by Mr. Mon-
maw proved to be the feature acts of the
evening,

Wednesday After

The Wednesday afternoon program of
the Radqailffe Chautauqua presented the
tocaliat, Ness Shepherd, the “American's
All” detachment from Camp Dix, and the
lecturer, Dr. Culp. Miss Shepherd sang
with rather pleasing effect several selec-
tions, the most. interesting of which
were “It’s Just Her Way,” and “A Re-
vised Edition of ‘Old Uncle Ned.’”

The “Americans All” detachment, un-
der the command of Lieutenant Kelly,
furnished the most enjoyable feature of
the program. As Lieutenat Kelly an-
vounced, these men were just ordinary
soldier-pupils from the government
school for illiterates at Camp Dix. The
detachment of eight, including four for-
cign-born Americans, executed various
drills and combinations with unparal-
leled quickness and dispatch. ‘They en-
gaged in group singing and one render-
ed several solos in a pleasing manner.
Several also made speeches, giving their
life history. It was an impressive mo-
ment, that, when a big Finn told of how
he had come to this country a penniless,
ignorant immigrant, and how the army
had transformed him into a real Amer-
ican,

The lecture of Dr. Culp, entitled “Put-
ting the Community Program Into Ef-
fect,” dealt with a subject which is vital |
to our nation today. He represented in
a new and forceful manner the old ideals
of co-operation and team work, with-
out which, he said, no community or
group could execute its greatest possi-
bilities. ;

Wednesday Night.

The closing night of the Chautauqua
was by far the most entertaining as weil
as the most instructive of the perform-
ances presented by the Radcliffe Chau-
tauqua during their three-day visit in
Davidson, .

Dr. Culp, of Cleveland, O., sounded the
keynote of the evening in an appealing
and inspiring lecture on “America’s In-
dustrial Ideal.” Dr. Culp very effectively
compared the America of bygone days
when “service” was the motto of manu-
facture to the America of today where}
greed and self have set in and service
is lost in the mad rush after gain. Amer-
ica’s industrial ideal is service and every
American must strive to bring this goal
nearer for with the ends of the world
looking to her today she must not fail
but must see that this ideat materializes.

Miss Shepherd, at the piano, presented
several very clever and amusing num-
hers which met with protracted ap-
plause. |

The feature of the evening was the}
demonstration staged by eight dough- |
boys under the leadership of Lieutenant |
Kelly. These soldiers were from the!
Army Educational Center for illiterate |
soldiers and beneath the surface of their
entertainment was a vein of seriousness
showing the value of this feature of the
service to the uneducated soldier.

Major Hearn’s army was put to scorn
by their snappy drills and the speed
with which they donned their blouses
excited even the admiration of Mr.
Ryan. They brought a most delightful

evening to a successful close with many |.

jokes and songs, most of which our ex-
service men recognized as originating
over-seas,

Guarantors for Next Year.

It is now certain that the Radcliffe
Chautauqua, which was so thoroughly en-
joyed during the past week, will be back
next year. A contract has been signed
by 20 prominent men of the community
which guarantees the Chautauqua man-
agement a specified sum to return next
year.

The following men signed the con-|_

tract: H.B. Arbuckle, W. H. Thompson,
S J. Christenbury, C. H. Hamilton,--C.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI SOCIETY DEBATE ON
VALUES OF AERIAL DEFENSE

The meeting of the Phi Society last
Thursday ‘night was both lively and in-
teresting, for each man on the program
seemed interit on doing his full part to
make the meeting a success.

The critic announced the subject for
debate as: “Resolved, that the Air Serv-
ice should supplant the Navy in the Na-
tion’s first line of defence.” Under the
leadership of J. W. Baldwin the affirma-
tive showed by the results of recent ex-
periments and the opinions of experts
that the Air Service could supplant the
Navy, and that latter is a tremendous
financial burden. The negative pointed
out the fact that our first line of defense
is not restricted to our coast line, and
that the Air Service could never be more
than supplementary to the Navy. The
decision was. rendered unanimously for
the affirmative.

In the extemporaneous debate Gibson
proved that Robinson, his opponent, was
wrong, and that tradition and common
sense’ combined to condemn any split-
ting of the societies.

J. R. Jones gave an interesting oration
on “The World Disarmament Confer-
ence and its meaning.”

The society reinstated C, G. Brown,
D. P. McGeachy, and R. P. Brown. M.
B. Foil was received into the society as
a new member,

After a rather warm discussion on the
advisability of splitting into two soci-
eties the meeting adjourned to recon-
sider this matter next week.

D.
EUMENEANS HAVE JOLLIEST
INITIATION IN MANY YEARS

On last Saturday night at 7:30 o’clock
the Eumenean Literary Society held its
annual initiation of Freshmen into the
full membership and privileges of the
society,

The initiation ceremony was conduct-
ed with due pomp and dignity by “June-
bug” Price and not one of the Fresh-
men could complain that he was neglect-
ed in the course of the evening.

Thé aspirants tothe honor attached
to membership in the society made their
appearance in the hall with their pants
turned wrong-side-out and their shoes
tied around fheir necks, leaving their

————_——_—————
—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_———_—_—_—_—_—_——

M. Stiles, C. V. Potts, M. H. Goodrum,
T. E. Lothery, A. R. Proctor, J. S. Stuart,
J.,R. Caldwell, J. F. Carter. T. M. Grif-
fith, H. G. Torrence, J, J. Withers, J. W.
MacConnell, J. M. Douglas, C. D. Rey-
nolds, C. E. Fidle, H. B. Elliott.

pedal extremities devoid of any cover-
ing, with the exception of. those few
who boasted of socks. This later de-
ficiency might be attributed to the self-
evident fact that our laundry is func-
tioning along its usual grounds.

After the Freshmen were marshalled
into the hall that popular ditty, known
as “How Green I Am,” was rendered by
all.

Several ludicious performances were
then pulled off in grand style but one of
the most ridiculous was the shredded
wheat eating contest. In the strictest
sense of the word this was rather erron-
eously stated as the competitive part of
the event was done away with when
Jimmy Milhour got into action. Three
bites and one swallow sufficed him and
his biscuit was no more, the entire oper-
ation lasting for the space of about two
seconds. ,

The most entertaining part of the
¢vening’s program was then announced
as a debate: “Resolved, That ‘Nunkle’
McIlwaine is better looking than ‘June-
bug’ Price.” The affirmative side of
this argument was upheld in eloquent -
style by Fresh Price, while Fresh Mc-
Ilwaine exerted his powers and influence
on behalf of the negative.

The judges were unanimous in their
decision, which was heartily in favor of
the affirmative, much to the confusion
and embarrassment of “J. P.”

This concluded the lighter part of the
program. The new men were then duly
sworn in and ice cream and cake was
served’in abundance, after which the
meeting broke up, and thus ended prob-
ably the most successful initiation th t
has ever been conducted in the Ei
menean Hall.

D.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS GUESTS
OF DR. AND MRS. LINGLE

On last Friday night at the home of
Dr. T. W. Lingle Le Cercle Francaise
held its weekly meeting.

The attendance was good and all
signs seem to point to a very successful
year. No special program was carried
out but plans for the coming year were
fully discussed, This year’s work prom-
ises to be especially helpful to the mem-
bers.

After the business was finished Mrs.
Lingle sprung a most pleasant surprise
by serving the members delicious re-
freshments.

The meetings hereafter will be held
the second Friday of each: month and
all members are urged to come and help
in making this the most successful year
that the French circle has ever had.

STATIONERY |

A full and complete line
of Eaton, Crane and Pike
Co’s. Linen Lawn and
Highland Linen writing

paper :
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler Local agent
DAVIDSON, N. C. J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

Have those old shoes made
new by the:

SHU-FIXERY

Charlotte, N. C.

This Space Reserved for
Wrigley Chewing Gum Co.

5 W. Fourth St.

Sweaters —

For college men:. We have them,
and nobbiest models you can find.

low, right in line with our low prices on all sporting goods.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.

EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)

fellows—some of the nicest
Our prices on sweaters are

Phone 3248

