THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

States for 1922 are four billions of dol-
lars according to Secretary of the
Treasury Houston White.”

You Tell "Em, Sister.
In Psychology we learn that memory |
is a faculty.
Won't it be nice when Faculty is a
memory ?—Wo-Co-Ala News.

Resolved:

We are going to quit knocking the

laundry. The laundry: is so considerate !

that it won't even knock the spots in!

our clothes and we think it the part of!
good sports to lay off.

Do Say. }
Now You're Talking. Temper Him. “I lay down the Law,” said Frank as
They call it Junior Speaking—but it’s] There are a lot of hard Freshmenjhe stretched himself out on the bed.”
mostly whispering. about, but none harder than Steele.
As Clear As Mud.
“Schoolboy Is Stabbed.” Listen. The man had just informed the Pull-
Headline Washington Evening Star. Bride to Hubby—“Cuss all you want to]man Agent that he wanted a Pullman
But if a student gets ‘shot’ here he] but never say darn.” berth.
doesn’t even get a Davidsonian write- “Upper or lower?” asked the agent.
up. We Can't Get Along Without— “What's the difference?” asked the
those who say, “I had a good joke for{man.
Weather Forecast. you, but I've forgotten what is was.” “A difference of 50 cents in this case”
Unprecedented downpour predicted replied the agent. “The tower is higher
for Davidson and vicinity on Friday, Tune Up. than the upper. The higher price is for
Saturday, and Sunday. . Life is a sweet old song—if. you don’t the lower. If you want the lower, you'll
get off key. have. to go higher. We sell the upper
And speaking of Junior Speaking— lower than the lower. In other words,
that’s a good excuse for taking a bath. It’s Spring. Young man watch for|the higher the lower. Most people don’t
: your Fancy. like the upper, although it is lower on
Accept Our Compliments. . account . of being higher. When you
James Boulware sure has an exquisite R. O. T. C. Special. occupy an upper you have to get up to
taste for poetry. Pick up the marbles,, Attention! Present Arms! Fall-In!}go to bed and get down when you get up.
Jim, you win. Sounds good, doesn’t it? Wonder if| You can have the lower if you pay high-
it will work? er. The upper is lower than the lower
OF Course. / because it is higher. If you are willing
Headlines—“Poultry Raising Attracts This Week's Bone. to go higher, it will be lower.”
Youths.” Fresh Carr in Eumenean Society] But the poor man had fainted.—Char-
You bet your life it does. I“The required revenues of the United {lotte Observer.

HE air is composed of molecules. They constantly
bombard you from all sides. A thousand taps by a
thousand knuckles will close a barn door. The taps

as a whole constitute a push. So the constant bombardment

of the air molecules constitutes a push. At sea-level the air

molecules push against every square inch of you with a

total pressure of nearly fifteen pounds.

Pressure, then, is merely a matter of bombarding mole-
cules. .

When you boil water you make its molecules fly off.
The water molecules collide with the air molecules. It takes
a higher temperature to boil water at sea-level than on Pike’s
Peak. Why? Because there are more bombarding molecules
at sea-level—more pressure.

Take away all the air pressure and you have a perfect
vacuum. A perfect vacuum has never been created. In the
best vacuum obtainable there are still over two billion mole-
cules of air per cubic centimeter, or about as many as there
are people on the whole earth.

Heat a substance in a vacuum and’ you may discover -
properties not revealed under ordinary pressure. A new
field for scientific exploration is opened.

Into this field the Research Laboratories of the General
Electric Company have penetrated. Thus one of the chem-
ists in the Research Laboratories studied the disintegration
of heated metals in highly exhausted bulbs. What happened
to the glowing filament of a lamp, for example? The glass
blackened. But why? He discovered that the metal dis-
tilled in the vacuum depositing on the glass.

This was research in pure science — research in what
may be called the chemistry and physics of high vacua. It
was undertaken to answer a question. It ended in the dis-
covery of a method of filling lamp bulbs with an inert gas
under pressure so that the filament would not evaporate so
readily. Thus the efficient gas-filled lamp of today grew out
of a purely scientific inquiry.

So, unforeseen, practical benefits often result when
research is broadly applied.

General@Electric

General Office Com any Schenectady, N.Y.

ee eesti ppenesete:
.

For Nearly a Century

Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men
for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, with a mem-
bership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was
never more complete and efficient than at present.
Many improvements to the plant is contemplated for the
near future.

For information address, The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

Hee te EL ALE Lt A

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N

‘CAMP SAPPHIRE S8&VARD.N.c.

A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS

All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating,
mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent
table. An experienced Councillor for every

six boys.
Give your boy a Chance. Make his summer profitable
W. McK. FETZER, - - Director

RRRRRRRRRRARRRKURKURARARURNY,

Chapel Hill, N. C.

J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director
Davidson, N. C.

WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG
NUNN ENENURNENNNRENRR

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter gar-

ments more skilfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Socie-
ty Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and
Uraer Shoes; Manhatian Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

CHARLOTTE

f PROGRAM

L\ L\ |) f
@ .

_ YER ba.
= : _ a
Thursday. Friday and Saturday, March 3rd, 4th and 5th
B OVERTURE
e

Academy Orchestra
Direction Ghartes H. Shonland

F PATHE NEWS
° ROLIN COMEDY
K JESS AND DELL
“The Human Puppets’ Present a Unique Novel Oddity
E MANUEL ROMAINE’S
‘THAT TRIO,”’’ Vaudeville’s Sweetest Singers
I BILLY LYTELLE AND GIRLS
With Mabel Dillon in a Novelty Musical Review
| T BERT STODDARD
‘*The Forgetful Teacher”

ANITA DIAZ MONKEYS

( H : Darwinian Demonstratogs of Fun ll
eeee— te a a :
