THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER:24, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

M. RICHARDS...-......... Editor-in-Chief . 'P. PRICE Forum Editor

¥. A. GAMBLE, JR..-......Managing Editor tS CURR Vseesa cesses secon Campus Editor
H. H. SMITH........Asst. Managing Editor . C. BAILEY, JR.. -Y. M. C, A. Editor
R. F, DAVIDSON ignment Editor . SPRUNT. -Social Editor
A. C. ORMON "Athletic Editor . H. OGDEN, JR. --Literary Editor
A. C. SUMME -Alumni Editor W. J. COOPER..... -Publicity Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...-.---.- Exchange Editor
’
REPORTERS’ CLUB
TZER, R., Pres. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE; G. W., V.-Pres
ADFORD, W. Z. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W, H.
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. ORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. IVES, J.'C. MITH, R. H.
CALHOUN, M. P. ONES, J. R. TULLER, C. D.
COX, W. M. ONES, Rk. R: WALTHALL, D, B.
ELKINS, L. D. NOX, W. 1. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F.
MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

hisossdaassocss Business Manager

- C, L.
L, A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S, SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Hi RUSSELL and GoD. TULLER eg, Chageents im Circulation, Departments
. K an . D. y . C, . C, ER
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE oN
- Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

In view of the fact that many of the students will be off the hill on
Thanksgiving Day, this week’s issue of The Davidsonian is appearing
one day early. ;

D:

Thus far Davidson has won three games, tied three, and lost three.
The tie will be broken in Greenville tomorrow when we are expecting
the Wildcats to make the Purple Hurricane dook like a sweet-evening
breeze.

D
The reason for that dreamy look which so many Seniors are wear-
ing around the campus this week will probably be made evident when the
two-fifty train rolls in Friday.

D

THE SPIRIT OF. THANKSGIVING.

HANKSGIVING; What does the name mean to us? To the aver-

I age man the day seems to mean only a holiady, a big dinner, a foot-

: ball game, or perhaps a hunting trip. The thought of any deeper
significance in the occasion does not once occur to his mind, so engross-
ed is he in the pursuit of these pleasures. Yet surely this is not as it
should be.

From the day when the Pilgrim Fathers first celebrated Thanks-
giving on the coasts of New England until President Harding issued the
Thanksgiving Proclamation for 1921, the celebration has had a deeper
and nobler meaning. That meaning is well expressed in the name of
the day itself. It is a time for a na ional and individual giving of thanks
to the Giver of every good and perfect gift for the blessings which He
has bestowed on us during the year just past.

We shall not endeavor to mention any list of the things for which
we should be thankful. Such a list 4s we might print here would of ne-
cessity be incomplete, and besides the things which-occur to every indi-
vidual are not the same. Surely there is no one of us who has not much

for which to be grateful, however, and the day should mean much to us*

all, Let us celebrate it in the real spirit of Thanksgiving.
D.

A WORD OF APPRECIATION.

In the issue of The Outlook dated September 21, there appeared un-
der the title “Mine Own People” a prize article by a Southern woman
attacking Southern men. The writer, a Miss Marshall, speaks of the
Southerner’s selfishness, intemperance, and hot temper. “The Southern-
er still to a large extent regards a woman as a servant or a beautiful
toy,” she says, and goes on to state that he considers a good mind as a
liability ina woman. She characterizes him as proud of his temper and
even goes so far as to say that “the Southerner of Anglo-Saxon descent
is a brute,” taking her own life and experience with her father and
brother as a basis for this arraignment of an entire section.

_ In the same publication for October 12 there was published a letter
written in answer to this article, and headed “A Northern Woman De-
fends Southern Men.” Miss Mary G. Ellinwood, who for some years
past has been a resident of Davidson and who is well known to a large
number of friends here, was its writer and in it she clearly refutes Miss
Marshall’s charges:. Beginning with the statement that she has spent
over thirty years in the South, being intimately associated with families
from Virginia to Florida, she goes on to show the utter falsehood of such
a belief about the South. “Never have I known a single instance of the
subservience of women to men,” she says, and concludes with the ap-
propriate comer that “it is a comfort to’ know that Miss Marshall’s
. Own People’ are not representative of the majori i Z
ilies, either North or South.” ee om

The Davidsonian wishes to take advantage of this opportunity to
express its father tardy thanks to Miss Ellinwood for her splendid de-
4ence of Southern manhood. It gives us especial pleasure that the
writer ‘of such an article should be a resident of Davidson, where
more than five hundred young men from prac ically every state in the

uth are assembled.

! 3

ARTHUR LEE GASTON WORTHY
SON OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Arthur Lee Gaston, 1896, lawyer and
legislator, was born in Chester, g. C.,
August 14, 1876. He is the son _ of
Thomas Chalmers and Adelaide (Lee)
Gaston. He is descended from a long
line of distinguished ancestors, both
American and European, the first known
of whom was John Gaston, Grand Duke
of Tuscany, cousin to Louis the XII of
France, who, on account-.of his Huguenot
affiliations, was banished from his coun-
try, and subsequently took up his resi-
dence in Scotland.

Arthur Lee Gaston received his pre-
paratory education in the graded schools
of Chester, and was graduated from Da-
vidson, with the degree of A.B., in 1896.
He took up the study of law at the Uni-
versity of Virginia in the following
academic year, pursuing at the same time
advanced courses in: logic, philosophy,
history and English literature.

He completed his legal studies in the
office of Judge George W. Gage, was
admitted to the bar in December, 1897,
and rose rapidly to conspicuous rank in
his profession. ’

In 1900 he was elected a member of the
South Carolina House of Representa-
tives, and was re-elected in 1902, and
again in 1904, and served continuously as
a member of the judiciary committee of
that body. He was also chairman of the
dispensary committee, and member of
the dispensary investigating committee,
He is vice-president and one) of the in-
corporators of the Commercial Bank, of
Chester; solicitor and one of the incor-
porators of the Chester Building and
Loan Association; vice-president of the
Patterson Public Library Association;
and first secretary and treasurer of the

Commercial and Manufacturers’ Club.
During the Spanish-American war he
served from May to November, 1898, as
first lieutenant of Company D, First
South Carolina Volunteer Infantry.

On December 3, 1902. Mr. Gaston mar-
ried Miss Virginia Aiken, daughter of
the late David Aiken, of Greenwood, S.
C., and granddaughter of Congressman
Aiken, deceased. They have one living
child, David Aiken Gaston.

D Q
DEATHS.

Rev. Calvin Lewis Stewart, 1877, died
November 9, 1921, at P@izer, S.C. He
was pastor of the Williamston, Pelzer
and Lickville churches. After leaving
Davidson, Mr. Stewart went to the Co-
lumbia Theological Seminary, of Colum-
bia, S.C. He graduated there in 1880 and
was licensed to preach in the same year.

MARRIAGES.
C. A. McArthur, ex-1919, of St. Pauls,
N. C., was recently married to Miss Nora
L. Pope, of Lumberton, N. C.

Harry P. Murray, ex-’20, was married
on Wednesday, November 23, to Miss
Lilian Powell, daughter 8f Mr. and Mrs.
M. P. Powell, of Pulaski, Tenn.

HERE~AND THERE
AMONG THE ALUMNI
Reese Jenkitis; '17, is a Senior at Co-
lumbia Senimary this year.

Capt. Reid R. MorriSon, ’o2, was in
Davidson on business last week.

Frank Price, ’16, is a Senior at Yale
Divinity: School and a personal friend of
Dr. H. B. Wright, who was on the cam-
pus last week

Charlotte has elected an’ ex-Davidson
man as mayor, Hon. J. O. Walker, ex-’o1.

Some of the alumni who attended the
Elon game last Saturday were: J. L.
Limburger, ’91, of Lincolnton, N. C.;
Joe Johnston, ’o1, of Lincolnton; Mc-
Alister Carson, ’13, of Charlotte; L. H.
Wilkinson, '13, of Charlotte; W. W.
Flowe, ’95, of Concord, N. C.; J. P. Tay-
lor, ’21, of Winston-Salem; C. K. Brown,
’21, Cleveland, N. C.

Da
SENIOR SPEAKING TO HOLD
ATTENTION FOR WEEK END

(Continued from page 1)
production and a high-class performance
may be expected. The personnel is: D.

R. LaFar, interlocutor; W. M. Bogart, :
E. T. Woolfolk, A. V. Gibson and R. K.|B

Shaw, end men. The quartette and A. C.

Brown will give a farce chautauqua pro-|&

gram. There will appear three other
similar acts and a grand finale.

MISS HELEN GIBBS HOSTESS
TO “B” COMPANY SATURDAY

Miss Helen Gibbs, sponsor of the hon-
or Company B, was hostess to the com-
pany at a delightful entertainment in
her home last Saturday evening. The
occasion was in celebration of the com-
pany’s winning the honor flag in the
Armistice Day Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps demonstration for having the
most original and best executed stunt.

Miss Gibbs’ home was beautifully dec-
orated in colors of the company, black
and gold. The color scheme was clev-
erly carried out, large streamers. of black
and gold radiated ffom the chandeliers,
little black and gold favors were dis-
tributed and large bowls of yellow
chrysanthemums were used to carry out
the color scheme in a most effective
way.

Delicious punch was served from
three large punch bowls. Everyone en-
joyed it so much that the whole com-
pany agreed that hereafter they would
have more punch ahd snap in their drill.
Neapolitan ice cream and golden choco-
late cake were also enjoyed by all.

The band furnished music for the oc-
casion, livening things up with profes-
sional jazz and contributing in general
to the spirit of mirth and gaiety that
reigned supreme.

Among the charming young ladies
present were the Misses Gibbs, Miss Or-
rie Steele, Miss Jean Martin, Miss Ka-
lista Hood, Miss Nina Holt White, Miss
Sophia Richards, Miss Eloise Martin,
Miss Dorothy Finlayson, and others.

It was simply one of those delightfully
informal affairs where everybody
knows everybody elst and all have a
good time. It will long be remembered
as one of the brightest spots in the life
of B Company. The whole company
agreed that such a sponsor as theirs was
indeed worth working hard for and that
their efforts to win the honor flag were
more than repaid.

D

LV

The enrollment at L. S. U. this year
is expected to be more than 1,100 when
it comes to completion for the entire
year. The Freshman class is the largest

in history. Six new additions have been
made to the faculty—The Reveille.

It :
Wakes You
Up

Cattel

- Delicious and Refreshing

Charlotte Coca-Cola
Bottling Works

In the center of the the-
atre and shopping
district .
Thoroughly modern and
up-to-date
Where Courtesy and
Service is the motto
Make your headquarters :
with us when in
Charlotte

Frank Gretson, Mgr.

WRIGLEYS

The students and alumni of the Uni-
versity of Georgia have begun a drive
for a million dollars, the purpose in view
being the erection of a million dollar
memorial to the Georgia men who lost
their lives in the war—The Red and
Black.

White’s Meat Market

BEST FRESH MEATS
DELIVERED

Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

The Home of Comfort-
able Hair Cuts and
Shaves

We want your business and you need
our service

RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS

I've got all the supplies
for them

FRUITS CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES

“an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing
Jewelry Co.

Manafacturers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Cluett,Peabody & Co.Inc.Troy. NY.

Have those old shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY

Charlotte, N. C.

Local agent

J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

“After Every Meal”

