THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

WILLIAM F. STEVENSON IS
CAPABLE AND HONORED MAN

Honorable William Francis Stevenson,
1885, was born in Loray, Iredell County,
North Carolina, on the 23d of November,
1861. He is the-son of William: Sydney
and Elizabeth (McFarlan )Stevensog In
1865_he received his A.B. degree from
Davidson and went into the study of
law. He read law under Gen. W. L. T.
Prince and R. T. Caston, of Cheraw, S.
C. On November 13, 1888, he married
Miss Mary Elizabeth Prince, the daugh-
ter of General Prince, his law teacher.
In 1887 he was admitted to the South
Carolina bar and began practice at Ches-
terfield. He was general counsel for the
State Dispensary Commission and direct-
ed the litigation through the Supreme
Court of the United States in winding
up the South Carolina State Dispensary.
He was a member of the Democratic
Executive Committee of Chestefield
County from 1888 to 1914, and chairman
of it from 1896 to 1902,. He has been a
member of the Democratic State Exec-
utive Committee of South Carolina. since
1901. He was mayor of Cheraw from
1895-06. He was a member of the South
Carolina House of Representatives,
1896-1903, and 1910-14. He was speaker
of the house from 1901-03. He has rep-
resented the fifth district of South
Carolina since 1917 in the 65th and 66th
Congresses.

The degree of LL.D. was conferred up-
on Mr. Stevenson at the commencement
of Davidson College in 1921.

D

REV. W. W. RATCHFORD WAS
MAN HELD IN HIGH ESTEEM
eo

Rey. W. W. Ratchford, ex-1860, the
oldest minister in the Synod of Sotth
Carolina, died October 26th at his home
near Lancaster, in the manse of the Tir-
zah Church, where he had served as pas-
tor for almost 3o years. He was born
,) Gaston County, North Carolina, May
28, 1831. He was a graduate of Erskine
College and: studied theology privately.
He was ordained June 2, 1860, by the
Presbytery of Yorkville. He served a
number of churches in North Carolina,
but his longest pastorate was with Tir-
zah and Waxhaw chutches. Although
for many years he had been a member
of the Presbytery of Bethel, in the Synod
of South Carolina, the church of which
he shad longest been pastor was just
over the line in North Carolina. Mr.
Ratchford served as chaplain in the
Confederate Army, and was perhaps the
oldest pastor in active service in the
entire Southern ‘Presbyterian Church,
and perhaps in any Protestant Church
in the United States. Many men of his
age continue preaching, but there is no
recorded instance of a man 90 years of
age who served as regularly installed
pastor of a church. He was like a fath-
er to the members of his churches and
to the people of the community where
he lived. The affection of his people for
him was a beautiful tribute to the un-
selfishness of his service,

D.
ALUMNI AT GAME.

Of the many alumni who attended the
Czrolina game last Saturday, the follow-
ing names were obtained: Locke White,
13; J. D. Watt, ’19; Jimmie Stockard,
ex-’24; Lorraine Dodson, ex-’22; Jim
Madrey, ex-'19; Rip Bernhardt, ex-’23;
Frog Casell, ex-’23; A. G, Oltman, ’19;
S.C. Williams, ’05; Jas. K. Fostet, ex-'19;
G. W. Coan, ’11; W. B. Taylor, ’08; C,
M. Taylor, ’08; Arch Taylor, "11; J. P.
Taylor, Jr., ’20; E. T. McKeithen, '06; J.
E. Carter, ’15; J. H. Carter, ’o9; H. A.
Caldwell, '14; J. Lee Sloan, 84; W. W.
Flowe, ’95; Geo. Bitzer, '18; Lump Rich-
ardson, ’14; Charlie Angle; A. M. Inman,
19; Harry Sample, ’19; Z. B. Roberson,
14; E. H. Harrison, ’97; Coach R. A. Fet-
zer, ‘07; Dr. R. M. King, 'oo; I. P. Gra-
ham, '08; ‘Coit Robinson, "10; Lawrence
Wilkinson; M. R. Watt; J. B. Pharr; Bill
Pharr; C. K. Brown, ’21; John Watson
Moore; J. C. Harper; Allison James; W.
D. Johnson; R. H. Stone; J. E. McKeith-
‘en; Joe Johnston; R..D. Hall; W. M.
_ Hall; J. W. McAlister; Lacy McAlister,
.20; W.'S. Overton; Fred Anderson; R.

G Garth; W. B. Hodges; R. D. Alex-
ander; D, S. Forgey; J, C. McDonald;
Geo. -N. Adams; W.-S, Alexander, and
_Bill Miley.

SSEeeEnot Ts

HERE AND THERE ,
AMONG THE ALUMNI

The pastoral relation between Rev. C.
G. Lynch, '12, and St. Paul’s Church,
Charlotte, was recently severed at a
ineeting of the Mecklenburg Presbytery.
Mr. Lynch has gone to Wilmore, Ky.

Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ’11, was elected
moderator of the Pee Dee Presbytery at
a recent meeting in Dillon, S. C.

Jamie Fowle, ’18, has been:ordained to
the ministry of the Gospel. The ordi-
nation took place in Washington, N. C,,
last week.

Rev. C. B. Craig has been elected a
trustee of Flora Macdonald College.

Capt. John Calvin Dye, ex-1906, was a
visitor in Davidson last week. Captain
Dye has spent thé last two years in
Hawaii in the government service. Dur-
ng the war Dr. Dye trained at Fort Ogle-
thorpe and was transferred to the avia-
tion section at Garden City. Later he
was sent to the Small Arms Training
School at Camp Dodge, Iowa. He served
on the examining board there and was
then transferred to the Base Hospital at
Camp Dodge. He was promoted to the
rank of captain June, 1919, at Camp Sher-
man, in Chillicothe, Ohio.

Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D.D., 1904, has
been called to the pastorate of the First
Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky.
This is one of the leading Southern
churches.and has a wide influence in re-
ligious affairs.

Rev. Alden S. Anderson, 1913, is the
principal of the Westminster School, a
school for boys, in Rutherfordton, N. C.

W. C. D. Kerr, ex-1915, is teaching
French in Columbia University, New
York.

Rev. E. C. Murray, Jr., 1914, has moved
from St. Pauls, N. C, to Zitacauro,
Michoacan, Mexico.

Rev. H. R. Overcash, 1893, has moved
from Lake City to Leesburg, Fla.

Rev. J. G. Patton, Jr., 1916, has moved
from Ashland, Va., to Lawrenceville, Ga.

J. D. McCloy, ex-1922, is at Pough-
keepsie, New York, taking a higher
course in accounting.

John Watson Moore, 1912, has been
recently made an elder in the First Pres-
byterian Church of Winston-Salem, N. C.

Jimmie Harper, 1915, is working with
the Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., of
Winston-Salem. This institution is the
oldest and the strongest bank and trust
company in North Carolina. Jimmie has
a new six cylinder Packard roadster, the
first of its kind in North Carolina.

MARRIAGE NOTICES.

Mr. and Mrs. James Douglas Neill re-
quest the honor of your presence at the
marriage of their daughter, Katherine
Douglas, to Mr. Lewis Robert McDuffie,
1913, on Tuesday, the twenty-second of
November, at the First Presbyterian
Church, Columbus, Ga.

Mr, and Mrs. C. C. Wilkinson-announce
the marriage of their daughter, Martha
Lois, to. Mr. Robert Dawson Hughes,
1916, of Cédar Grove, North Carolina, on
Tuesday, October twenty-fifth, at Hills-
boro, N. C.

Frederick N. Thompson, 1921, married
Miss Mildred Walser, of Lexington,
North Carolina, on Thursday, November
tenth. The wedding was held at the
First Presbyterian Church of Lexington,
and of the ten men who took part eight
were from Davidson. Those who took
part were: D. S. Forgey, 1921; A. L.
Wilson, 1920; Ira Brinkley, 1920; Wood-
row McKay, 1912; J. S. Curry, 1922; R. K.
Shaw, 1922, and G. H. Cornelson, 1922.

bp Ee

Lp.

Stetson Brogues ;

ARMISTICE DAY

(Continued from page 1)
At 12 o'clock the call of a bugle was

heard and the entire assembly stood for
two minutes of silent prayer for our
dead heroes, after which The. Star-
Spangled Banner was played by the
band.

The next speaker of the morning was
Prof. J. L. Douglas, who spoke of our
alumni who have recently crossed “The
Great Divide.” Foremost among these
was Maj. J. Z. W. F. Harper, of Lenoir,
N..C. When the War .Between the
States broke out, Major Harper enlisted
as a private, but owing to his efficiency
and gallant conduct he soon rose to the
rank of major. After the war he settled
in Lenoir and became one of her fore-
most citizens. He founded the Bank of
Lenoir and also the Library of Lenoir.
Among his other honors are to be num-
bered membership in the State Legis-
leture and his office as trustee of Da-
vidson.

Dr. W. J. McKay, of Sumter, S. C., was
another of Davidson’s worthy alumni.
When in school he was the winner of
the debater’s medal and was valedic-
torian of his class. He was president of
the Board of Trustees and was one of
the leaders of the Presbyterian Church
in South Carolina. His death was a loss
not only to South Carolina, but also to
her sister state, North Carolina.

The chief speaker of the celebration
was Dr. B. R. Lacy, ’06, a graduate of
Davidson, Union Seminary, and Oxford
University. To some he is better known
as “The Fighting Parson,” that name
having been applied to him for heroic
service “over there.”

After a few humorous introductory
remarks he made the statement, “Armis-
tice Day will in the future be remem-
bered as one of the most blessed days
the world has ever seen, or as one of
the most tragic days the world has ever
known. It will be remembered for its
great joy or for its despair.”

One of the most pathetic of his per-
sonal experiences while in France, which
were related, was that of assisting in
the burial of two soldiers from Lenoir,
N. C,, one of whom had in his pocket a
note from his mother which read, “In
all thy ways acknowledge Him and He
shall direct thy paths.”

In answer to the question as to why
the American soldiers were so eager and
determined to bring the great conflict
to a speedy close, in spite of their ex-
treme weariness, he stated that it was
their longing desire to return home.
They fought not because of something
pushing and forcing them on, but be-
cause of something. pulling them.

But what does all this mean to us?
“It means,” said Dr. Lacy, “that while
men gather in Washington to work on
disarmament plans there must be be-
hind them ourselves in a more intense
spirit of peace than we ever had of war.
We must see to it that there goes out
of the hearts of men that lust which
impels them to war.”

Several alarming incidents were re-.
lated, which showed how war ruins na-
tions, not only financially, but  spirit-
ually, and how it corrupts art and
morals.

“They that take the sword shall perish
by the sword.” War, the great destroy-
er, must be destroyed. Christ must be
enthroned if war is to be dethroned.

Following the address, Professor Er-
win, while all stood in reverence, read
the names of those Davidson students
who sacrificed their lives on the altar
of freedom during the late war.

It was moved and seconded that a tele-
gram be sent to the honored alumnus
of Davidson, _ex-President Woodrow
Wilson, expressing our sympathy, love,
confidence, admiration and apprecia-
tion of him for his great services to hu-
manity. : : 0

Prayer by Dr. Moore, of Japan, and
“Oo Davidson”, by the band, concluded
the celebration until|the afternoon, when
a splendid military exhibition was given.

The Armistice Day demonstration
given by the Reserve Officers Training
Corps Battdlion was one without paral-
lel in the annals of the college. It was
spectacular and little short of brilliant.

Promptly at 2:45 o'clock, headed by
the band, the battalion marched on the
field to the strains of martial music and
formed in company front, each company
being led on the field by a beautifully
decorated car bearing thé sponsor of the
company land her escort. The battalion

standing at present arms was then pre-

sented by Major Phillips to Miss Steele,
as goddess of America, the battalion
sponsor. Each car remained in front
of its respective company until the com-
pany marched out on the field to give
its stunt, the car then drove out to take
its place in line beside the car contain-
ing the battalion sponsor.

Company A, with Captain Richards
commanding, marched to the area in
front of the grandstand and was pre-
sented by its captain to the sponsor,
Miss Sophie Richards, after which it
proceeded with its stunt. The manual
of arms was executed, the company as
a whole commanding, and also a num-
ber of squad movements. The move-
ments were clearcut, and presented a
fine spectacle to the large audience. The
company was loudly applauded as it
marched back to resume its place.

Company B, Captain Lowry command-
ing, gave the most unique performance
oi the day, after which the company
was presented to its. sponsor, Miss
Helen Gibbs. The platoons, after chang-
ing direction in column of squads,
marched by the flank then to the rear
and resumed thit places in column of
squads. A line of the cadets wound in
and out till they had every one guessing
and then suddenly a large B was. seen
to be formed by them. This received
the. hearty applause of the entire audi-
ence and was the most original single
phase of the performance.

The stunt given by Company C was
a difficult as well‘as an unusual one in
that there were no commands given
during the entire performance. Even
the presentation of the company by Cap-
tain McIlwaine to Miss Dorothy Fin-
layson, sponsor, was done without com-
mand. The entire silent manual and a
number. of squad movements and dress-
ings were gone through with without
command, being done accurately and in
splendid cadence.

Captain Miller, commanding Company
D. presented it to its sponser, Miss
Eloise Martin. The company then
executed at the command of the captain
the manual of arms. After this the
company took distance and went
through a drill with rifles in cadence to
the music of the band. This stunt show-
ed up splendidly and was applauded
well.

Following the stunts of the companies,
Dr. J. M. McConnell held the audience
in suspence for some moments and then
announced the decision of the judges,
Company B winning first place and the
honor flag, with company D coming in
for second place. !

Mr. Jackson in, an appropriate and
brief speech presented the honor flag
to the winning company. The sponsor
will have the privilege of keeping this
flag in her home.

Dr. J. W. McConnell made a few well
chosen remarks.to the audience on cour-
tesy to the flag.

Retreat was then sounded and fol-
lowed by battalion parade, which con-
cluded the exercises of the day.

A large amount of the credit for the
success of the demonstration goes to
the attractive sponsors, who in pretty
costumes, representing the various god-
desses, did so much to make the exer-
cises a success.

The cars bearing the sponsors of the
different companies were beautifully
decorated and added a great deal to the
demonstration. The battalion car, bear-
ing the sponsor, Miss Steele, as goddess
of America, was decorated in red, white
and blue, the national colors being
splendidly worked in, in the scheme’ ©)
decoration. The car of Company A,
hearing its sponsor, Miss Richards, as
goddess of North Carolina, was deco-
rated in white and green, pine boughts
being used-to heighten the effect of the
color scheme and to suggest North Caro-
lina.

The pumpkin, always characteristic of
harvest time, was used very effectively
in the scheme of decoration of the car
of Company B, whose sponsor, Miss
Gibbs, was goddess of the Harvest.

Beautiful autumnal leaves of red and
yellow and large white and yellow
chrysanthemums decorated the car
bearing Miss Finlayson as: goddess of
Autumn, sponsor of Company C.’

The car of Company D, with Miss
Martin, the sponsor, as goddess of
Dixie, was completely covered with snow
white cotton and was beautiful as well
as unique. j

The demonstration showed to all who
saw it what a fine military organization

-Davidson-has. It.was.indicative of tire-|_

less and careful work on the -part of
both officers and men. It was a fitting
memorial, a splendid tribute, a great
success, and deserves none but the

highest of praise.
T).

“Frog” Cassell, ’23, who is coaching
the Wilmington H. S. football team,
spent Sunday on the Hill.

White’s Meat Market

BEST FRESH MEATS
DELIVERED

Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

The Home of Comfort-
able Hair Cuts and
haves
We want your business and you need
our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS

I've got all the supplies
for them

FRUITS CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES

'“an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing
Jewelry Co.

Manafactarers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD. 0

Have those old shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.

Local agent
J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

WRIGLEYS

