4

i

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief f: f Rice. Forum Editor

M. + as
. A. GAMBLE, JR.-.------- Managing Editor . 8 em -.Campus Editor
H. H. CA es Managing Editor . C. BAILEY, M.C. Editor
R. F. .--Assignment Editor - SPRUNT. -Social Editor
A. C. ORMOND... Athletic Editor . H. OGD iterary Editor
A. C. SUMMERS...-.-- --Alumni_ Editor . Jee Ly Publicity Editor
H. McKEITHEN-..-------- Exchange Editor
)
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BITZER, R., Pres. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
RADFORD, W. Z. HESTON; W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
“SALHOUN, M. P. IVES, J._C. PHILLIPS, J. W.
COX, W. M. ONES, J. R. TULLER, C. D.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E. uACY, T, A. WALTHALL, D. B,
ELLIOTT, ue, MAHOOD, D. L. WILDMAN, A. C.
FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

-Business Manager

EPARD Asst. Business Managers

Je Ce WOOD csasestoccee
L. A. TAYLOR, E, T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SII

: CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES...--.----Circulation M Assistants in Circulati Depar :
. K. RUSSELL and C, D, TULLER S.C, FAIN P. C. HENDERSON
ama Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE :

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A good reputation is hardsto earn and still harder to keep, A bad
reputation is easy to earn and keeps itself.”
D
The blue stockinged warriors from P. C. put up a great fight Fri-
day afternoon, winning the hearty respect of all who saw the game.
D-

Dae

The posting of the guards between the halves of the afore-mention-
ed contest occasioned a good deal of amusement in the grandstand but
accomplished its purpose all the same, and the, Athletic Association
owes these R. O. T. C. cadets a vote of thanks for the efficient way in
which they kept the crowd off the field.

’ D

The assembling of the Golden Tornado in Atlanta may--be like the |

gathering of a’storm but the Wildcats are not afraid of bad weather.
D
The student body is glad to welcome Captain George as the atest
addition to the list of our R. O. T.C. instructors.
: D ¢
Every day the student body is delayed in chapel by the reading of
numerous notices about articlés lost or found, Would it not be a wise
idea to establish some one place onthe campus where all articles found
could be left, and thus do away with this needless waste of time!
D.
THINK IT OVER.

T one time last year it was proposed that the student body should
A nowt and enforce certain rules with regard to a universal study

period. According to this plan certain hours were to be laid aside
ach night during which all visiting and unnecessary noises on the
campus were to be discontinued, and every student would have the op-
portunity of engaging in real anduninterrupted study.

The wisdom of such a rule is easily apparent. Probably there is
not a man on the campus who has not been disturbed in his preparation
of classes by the visit of some idle friend who dropped in to spend & so-
ciable hour of conversation, or who has not in his own moments of
leisure disturbed the other fellow in turn. ‘It is hard to continue one’s
study on such occasions without seeming to be unfriendly and incurring
the dislike of some one whose friendship at other times may be ex-
tremely desirable. And yet to cease studying during his visit means
a certain failure on the next day’s recitations or perhaps on a review.
Seemingly the easiest and surest solution of the difficulty lies in the
taking of some action by the student body as a whole.

For some reason the adoption of the proposed plan was’ not carried
through last year, The school year of 1921-22 is hardly begun as yet,
however, and it is not too late for us to obtain the benefits of a study
period for our work this term. Let every student think it over and
decide whether such.a rule would not at least be worth trying, so that
he may be ready to vote on the suggestion should the occasion arise,

T).

THE OPEN FORUM.

As the official newspaper of Davidson College The Davidsonian is
striving to represent the life of the students, and to express the ideas
and wishes of the entire student body. To fully accomplish this aim
however, is a difficult task for a staff of editors and reporters which
constitute only a small part of our total number of students. It was to
meet this difficulty that the department of the paper known as the
Open Forum was first instituted several years ago.

This department is the personal property of every man in college.
Through it you can put your idea and plans before your fellows with-
out fear of exposure or derision. If something is not going as it should
on the campus and you know the remedy or if you know of some new
institution which would be of benefit to the college, let it be known
through the Forum. Any unobjectionable article may obtain a place in
the paper by being first handed to Julian Price, the head of this de-
partment. ;

The Forum is yours. Do not hesitate to use it for any constructive

‘criticism or helpful suggestion. By doing so you may be the means of

starting some movement which will be of great benefit to your college.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

Open Forum

| DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MAGAZINE TO HAVE

LOST AND FOUND.

We have prayers every morning at
9:25. Prayers? you say. Well, may be
you are right; may be it should have
another name,

“Mr. John Smith,” reads the announce-
ment, “has lost an eversharp pencil—it
is gold, and has the initials J. S. engrav-
ed upon it—I take it that these letters
stand for the name, John Smith. The
owner will appreciate its return to 25
Georgia.” Five hundred men sit breath-
less with interest. Later on—‘Found: a
gold eversharp pencil, with initials J. S.
The owner can get it upon application to
R. Jones.—I suppose this must be the
| pencil that Mr. Smith lost, and he may
procure it by going to Mr. Jones.” The
tenseness is over, the lost is found, the
audience relapses to normal again.
| Fellows, this is all very interesting,
but what about the class meeting that
has to be postponed because the bell for
| the next period is already ringing? What
about those that must be cut short,
| without transacting any business, for
| the same reason? Did you ever stop to
| figure out just what a college man’s time
jis really worth? If he throws away a

{dollar every time he cuts a class it}

stands to reason that he loses half that
'much for equivalent preparation time
wasted,

And who wants to sit there and listen
to it, anyway, when it could be done so
much more scientifically and without
| wasting the time of the unconcerned?
|We could ¢tablish a lost and found
bureau at the gmn, on first floor of
|Chambers, Shearer Hall, or any place
|where the finder could deposit his find
land the loser‘describe his loss. Any-
body would take charge of this a few
minutes each day for the generous con-
sideration of all uncalled for articles.
| Tf this seems too hazardous, why not
|put a public bulletin board in front of
| Phi Hall or some other public place, and
|permit yourself to read at leisure such
excerpts as are of interest.

“Such notices have been read in chapel
for over fifty years,” you say. Then for
the sake of posterity, let’s venture this
rash step. Ashurbanipal.

D
STOP! LOOK! LISTEN!

The Atlanta Journal says that David-
son has lost her pep, and that “She ain’t
what she use to be.” Have they got ¢he
right. dope? Davidson’s record so far
this season has shown that the team is
all right but how about her student
body? Let's get out Friday night and
show them that they missed their guess.

The team leaves Friday for Atlanta
for what will probably be her hardest
game. Everybody be out and show them
we're behind them; kick over the old
pepper can and give the Red and Black
fighters a real send off; a little reminder
that we’re with them, win or lose. Scat-
ter some of the pep which the student
body undoubtedly has and for which the
college is rightly famous, all over town.
Kick the old pepper box sky high and
distribute that gentle condiment all the
way to Atlanta. Bill.

D
SHEARER HALL SCENE OF
ROLLICKING PEP MEETING

(Continued from page 1)

used to be,” the pep meeting in Shearer
Chapel on last Thursday night was a
HOWLING success! It was howl from
beginning to end. Paddles, sticks, in-
struments (musical or otherwise),
benches and voices all “harmonized” to
make the proceeding prominent as the
peppiest pep: meeting pulled lately.

Under the able leadership of Cheer
Leader Samuel Story and his efficient
aides, Walter Knox and J. P. Price,
freshmen were taught what their lungs
were made for. Beginning with the stir-
ring strains of “O Davidson,” through
the list of yells to the popular and pleas-
ing lines of “Hail, hail, the gangs all
here,” freshies and uppreclassmen ac-
quitted themselves in such a way as to
do honor to the inhabitants of the Malay
peninsular on seeing their first tub race.
The Glee Club was called upon the stage
to assist the Wildcat lung-trainers in
making yelling machines out of naturally
quiet and unassuming freshmen. They
aided materially, too, in getting the
Wildcat Male Orchestra ready to “Pluck
P. C’s Plumes.”

MANY NEW FEATURES

This year “The Davidson College
| Magazine” is planning many. changes and
| improvements in its make up. The same
;general form and design of last year
| will be used, but many innovations are

| to be introduced. Bob McLeod says that
jhe intends to enlarge the joke depart- |
|ment and transform it into a miniature |
lcopy of “Life.” The exchange depart- |
|ment, under the direction of Jimmy}
| Sprunt, will adopt a new policy for the
coming year. Instead of the thonthly,|
criticisms that have heretofore been run,
he intends to run a series of the best
articles that can be selected from the
various contemporary mazagines. In
this way he should give the very quin-
tessence of Southern collegiate litera-
ture,

Bill Cooper has several short stories
on tap, while R. R. McIlwaine has pre-
pared a number of pithy essays. One
unusual feature will be an article in
every issue on some modern work of |
fiction or poem. Distinguished alumni |
will also contribute to the magazine and
furnish students with a clear and con-
cise conception of the bearing one’s col-
lege years has on his after life.

Despite the extensive plans that have
been outlined above, the need of new
material is felt and it is sincerely hoped
that whoever may have any literary tal-
ent will aid in making this the biggest
and best year the magazine has ever ex-
perienced. George Cornelson and Dan-
ner Mahood are counting on everyone
to lend a helping hand.

WHEN A FELLOW
NEEDS A FRIEND

|

Did you ever walk up to the ticket
window. of the movie with your best girl
and discover that you had left your
purse, with all the money you had, on
the dresser?

Then a fellow needs a friend.

Did you ever have a friend ask you
to help him select a new hat or new
suit? This is a compliment, but at the
same time it places you in an embarrass-
ing position. Recently in Charlotte one
of my best friends asked me to help him
select his new fall hat. Believe me, then
I needed a friend. I felt. that my chum’s
confidence in me was at stake.

We walked around to Ed. Mellon’s to
look over his line. Imagine the relief
when we were taken in hand by a cour-
teous salesman who had made a scienti-
fic study of the art of helping a fellow
select a hat or new suit. I breathed a
sigh of relief. When in need we had
found a friend indeed. Everything in the
Jdatest styles of hats was displayed while
an expert tried one hat after another un-
til he found a hat of just the right hue,
the exact size and style to reflect the in-
dividual’s personality.

You need not look all over town for
some friend to help you select your new
fall hat. Go to Ed. Mellon’s, where you
can get the free advise of an expert on
matters of dress, where they have sales-
men who do infinitely more than take
your money and wrap up what you hap-
péned to find in their stock.

The styles in hats have changed—are
new—are different and improved. The
styles are beautiful—far more fascinat-
ang and becoming. And to see and to
know and to Have the most beautiful
styled hat shown anywhere, you need
only to pay Ed, Mellon’s a visit.

“On Trade near Tryon.”—Adv.

D.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON
HAS FIRST MEETING OF YEAR

(Continued from page 1)
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, O. J. Thies, C. E.
Cunningham, J. P. Price, T. M. Lowry,
P. H. McAlpine, and M. R. Doubles.

In the course of the meeting plans for
assisting Freshmen taking chemistry, for
Securing a speaker for the student body,
and for furnishing their hall, were dis-
cussed. During the year the fraternity
plans to have a man on “the hill” to give
a talk to the whole student body, which
will be of interest to every one,

L. P. Good, A.B. and M.A., of the class
of ’19, and one of the founders of the
local chapter, was on the hill, and spoke
to the members on the national work of
the fraternity, on ways by which more
work could be accomplished, and on the
future of the organization.

Every man in the local chapter is’
working to make this the banner year

for Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

DON’T MISREPRESENT.
By Leonard Smoot.
Oh, it may be that the school is not so
pleasing,
t may be that the teachers play the
fool;
But please don’t let your conscience get
the better,
And go about the town and knock the
school.
You know we misrepresent so often
Things we never know have come to
pass at all.
Then we cannot take the blackness off
the matter;
So why draw away from things and let

Andi

them fall?

We can do a noble deed by standing
under

Something that looks as tho it cannot
stand.

Then get up and put your shoulder to
that something,
For it may be your own dear native
land.
D.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS OPEN
FOR SOUTHERN COLLEGE MEN

Rhodes scholars will be appointed by
32 states, including Tennessee, Virginia,
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, and Mis-
sissippi, December 3d, to take up resi-
dence at Oxford University in October,
1922. All applications, testimonials, ref-
crences, etc., must be in the hands of the
respective state committees before Oc-
tcber 2oth. It is practically useless for
undergraduates to’ apply for appoint-
ment. Young alumni under 25 years of
age, who are doing graduate or profes-
sional study, or are engaged in teaching
or are pursuing ‘other intellectual pur-
suits, are the most likely candidates.
Judging. from past observation, we
should say that an athletic record and
gifts for social leadership, along with
scholastic and literary attainments, are
essential to appointment. The scholar-
ships pay 350 pounds sterling annually
and the appointment is for three years.
Almost any ,line of study may be pur-

sued with advantage.—Ex.
T).

D

Pride always goes before a good old

fashioned licking.

It is not the guns or armament or the
more they can pay f

It’s the close co-operation that makes
them win the day.

It is not the individual or the army as a
whole,

But the everlasting team work of every
bloomin’ soul—Maroon and Gold.

T).

THE GIRL QUESTION.

I call on Ruth because she has a piano
with lots of new music which I enjoy
playing.

I call*on Emily because her father
tells me funny stories.

I call on Henrietta because I am kept
warm—by the glow of her hearth.

I call on Evelyn because I like the
brand of cigarettes her brother smokes.

I call on Flora because I like to hear
her dad and mother argue.

I call on Mary because she always
asks me to stay for dinner.

I call on Lillian because I love daven-
ports. ,

But I’m looking for a girl—she doesn’t
need to have a piano, a hearth, a daven-
port, or even a mother and father, as
long as she plays papa to me and com-
forts.me while I am longing for my old
girl back home—Pennsylvania Punch
Bowl.

D.

Northwestern. University has passed a
rule similar to the one passed at Val-
paraiso University at the first of the
basketball season. The rule prohibits
co-eds from having dates\at the games.
The reason given for the edict was that
men are too interested in their guests to
cheer for their team—The Torch.

D.

The Columbia University baseball
team will play the Waesda University
team of Tokio, Japan, in New York this
spring.—Utah Chronicle.

