b>

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF "1g
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Ciass.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
to Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before

12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL...___.. wewenenn ee nen nnn wen nna---. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS. weeweenannanencnewcenecenenna----n-e: --Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND-.. --------------Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE. _.__....---~--- 222 nnnnnw-e--- =e enone ee. ssignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES._.._.._.....----------------~-----~--------------Athletie Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...._._-.-.. --Alumni Editor
J. C McCASKILL.............. Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE-..---.... _ Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP---_..-......... Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS._._.......--. M,C. A, Editor
H. A. HILL-...-_....-....----. ------Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR._.-~~- 02-2 e no nn non n-ne ee == == + Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE...........

peewee weer ena--o-naeeene=-----Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A. C.
Cooper, W. J. Long, C. G Phitlips, J. W.
: E Mahood, D. L. Sprunt, J

Cunningham, C. E. Mauze, G. W. p' J.
Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D.
Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Cc. J. MATTHEWS..........-~--~----~-- -222--22--2--e-ee--ee Business Manager

1s CURRY wewewecnncneennnnccnccccccenn- nono nee. a -A ssistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: .
» LONG....nW nnn nn nnn nn nnn enna nn nnnnmneecccecee+-e-------Circulation Manager
J. CG WOOL... 2 nnn enn en ence enn n ee. ---Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“No gift is more precious than good advice.”
—_—_p—

The Durham Y’s scoring machine seemed to have the force of an
Alpine avalanche, but beneath it all could be seen the old fighting
spirit of the Red and Black quint.

We wonder when the “debuttoner” at the laundry is going to break
down. . If it doesn’t soon happen, we are going to be in a terrible fix.
Perhaps there is some connection between this and The Needle Craft

Magazine in the library.
: 4 ry Dp

“The exemption rule from examinations seems to have worked won-
ders for the Senior Class. Would not other classes be affected in the

same way?

Dr. Thompson has come and gone, leaving behind an inspiration for
service that should mean much to our students, It is our plain duty
that we do not allow the passing of time to deaden the jnfluence of his

messages upon our lives.
D—_—_.

Editor Grant of the Tar Heel has begun the discussion of a pro-
posed College Press Association for this State. We have already been
in correspondence with him, aiding in whatever way we could. We
would like to urge that every college publication in our State back the
‘suggestion, for an efficient organization like this for it will mean much
to the various college papers and magazines.

—_—_—_—_)D—_—___

Since the last issue of our publication the students themselves
We take this op-
portunity for the college to thank the men for their consideration in
this matter. It is gratifying to see how the students are respecting

have taken definite action to protect our campus.

the wishes of the college authorities.

The Greater Davidson Club has taken an early start to secure the
maximum five hundred students for next year. We would like to em-
phasize again that while we do not want over this number in our
school, yet we do want to grow to the extent that we can pick our men.
For this reason do not be lax about turning in the names of prospec-

tive students who have the earmarks of Davidson men.
——_)D}—____
SHALL WE HEED THE CRY.

Today the world is experiencing three great famines; one in China,
one in. Central Europe and one in Armenia. As a result there is now rest-
ing upon America a great responsibility in this crisis, and the American
college student must shoulder his part of the burden. We realize only
too well the numerous calls for money that are made upon our stu-
dents, yet with it all the amount that is spent in satisfying our wants

ave no
hesitancy in making the plea that Davidson College contribute her

and desires is not curtailed one bit. For this reason we

portion to the sum needed.

Information has come to our college that other institutions
throughout our country are keenly alive to the situation, and are an-
swering in a way that is truly worthy of the liberality of our nation.
The opportunity to
contribute to any of these famine districts will be given next Tuesday.
To the call for help from the starving millions in China, to the plea for
urope and to the cry of thou-

ussia we are confident that
our students will give heed. While all the trouble seems so far away,
yet this does not diminish the horror of the calamity, nor does it les-
son our duty to these far away peoples. Surely the heart of. any real
from being touched by the infirmities of those less

Davidson must not lag behind in this movement.

food from the students of Central
sands of dying children in Armenia and

man cannot hel
fortunate than himself.
Eight hundred dollars has been set as the minimum goal

great; the request is small. Will you do your part?

for our
endeavors. This means about two dollars per man, and we ask that|-
every student face his duty fairly at this, time. The opportunity is

DERBY AND CANE
FOR THE SENIOR!

Last year we made the Freshmen
wear caps and the faculty gave the
Seniors the privilege of getting out of
examinations if they made a grade ex-
ceeding 85. Now, since the latter
gentlemen have this privilege, we pro-
pose that they dress so that you can
point to a man across the campus and
tell the admiring Freshman that the
handsome fellow in the derby hat and
carrying a cane is one of the privileged
men who have stayed in college four
long years. He is due two stripes for
his service in Davidson’s army and ten
gold medals for serving so heroically
and patiently Czar Absence Regulations.
Just picture to yourself Jas. Richmond
B., Gitney or John McNeely Dunlap,
walking down main street in a derby
and carrying a cane. Again, a Senior
would never have to look all over the
campus for a paddle if a Freshman of-
fended his royal dignity. And speaking
of protection, did you ever think that
a derby has been known to save men's
lives and a cane can serve as a club if
someone tried to rob a Senior of his
boundless wealth. Fellows, why can't
we start a custom which will really
make it much easier to recognize the
most privileged students at Davidson?

Hanlet.

—40e for the Famine Sufferers—

A PROTEST.

In preparatory schools the theory of
“Might makes right” actually becomes
a fact frequently. When a majority of
students in these schools get together
they make the others do things the lat-
ter do not want to do in every case.
But Davidson is not a preparatory
school and the rule of the mob should
have no place here no matter what men
constitute the organization that intro-
duces such a principle. We root our-
selves hoarse for our teams and tax
ourselves to reward the best men on
those teams. But is it fair that each in-
dividual in the student body should be
compelled to do more for these men
than what he would do for them when
there is no compulsion? Does college
spirit include this theory, that a man
must root for an organization in the col-
lege with which he is not directly con-
nected? We, as individuals and as a
student body are willing to do all with-
in our power for our letter men bde-
cause we feel that they deserve all we
are able to do for them. But we don’t
believe in. incorporating among our
customs the principle that one organiza-
tion will compell the other students to
do anything that organization wants.
We did this without resistance and
cheerfully in all but a very few in-
stances, but does this organization in-
tend to repeat this practice each time it
initiates new men? Is this practice fair
to the men who support the letter men
as far as they are able?

Horace.
—teee for the Famine Sufferers—

MAJ. T. C. HEARN.

(Continued from page 1)

After further training in France, while
it was stationed near Chaumont, and a
short stay in a quiet sector in the Vos-
ges, the Sixteenth, still under Major
Hearn, was sent to the Argonne. The
Sixteenth fought in the horror that was
the Argonne until the Armistice of No-
vember 11, 1918 After the Armistice
Major Hearn spent a short furlough on
the Rhine in Germany: “A great week
—a most beautiful country.”

In June, 1919, the Sixteenth sailed
from Brest for Hoboken and from Ho-
boken it went immediately to its home
camp, Camp Grant, III.

Through the efforts of Major James,
an old Davidson man, and the active
help of President Wilson, Dr. Martin
was enabled to secure Major Hearn for
the post he now holds. In his short
stay here he has shown himself to be a
man of resourcefulness, firmness and
tact. It is confidently predicted that un-
der his leadership the Davidson unit of
the Infantry R. O. T. C. will do even
better work than it has in the past.

——¢00 for the Famine Sufferers—
“Why, gentlemen,” thundered a Parlia-
mentary candidate, “my opponent hasn’t
a leg to stand on.”
“All the more reason why he should

have a seat,” came a voice from the
rear.—Ex.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 28, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

or s w.
Oe ane a
Read the exchanges in the Library.

STUDENT AUTOS
PUT UNDER BAN

Davidson Faculty Rules That They
interfere With Proper College
or’

Student automobiles have been put
under the ban at Davidson College.
(Pause here for much wailing among
the society buds who like the odor of
burning gasoline.)

They interferred with the discipline,
disrupted academic records, stirred up
too much dust on the highway between
Davidson and Charlotte, and ate into
father’s purse. Besides it didn’t look
exactly right for the students to whirr
around in good looking benzine buggies
while the professors strode along afoot
or peddled a bicycle.

With the onrush of modern ideas,
some of the progressive students of the
Presbyterian institution felt that auto-
mobiles were necessary to promote
their full health and happiness—and
social position. The first automobile
caused a ripple. Solemn-thinking
“Profs” took a long look when it went
by and they pondered on its influence

famong the s00 red-blooded Americans.

Among the students there was a sort
of stampede in the direction of gas-pro-
pelling vehicles, the lack of finances, a
customary “lack” among college stu-
dents, halting the stampede in the main
before it got fairly started. But some
of the “studes” are favorably blessed
with favorably blessed “dads” and some
of these “dads” either. couldn’t see the

‘harm or had lost their grip on the

youngsters.

Presently, there came rumblings of
plans for the addition of. more auto-
mobiles to enliven the life of the old
school which speaks of President Wil-
son as “a former student.” The faculty
members wrinkled their brows, put
their heads together, rubbed their hands
and took on a general pensive air.

“A-hem,” said one of the professors, a
parenthetical prelude which every col-
lege student who has gone beyond the
hazing year in an American institution
can interpret a block away as being a
dangerous and significant omen.

“A-hem, there has come to the atten-
tion of a number of the members of this
faculty that there is an appreciable ten-
dency on the part of our students to
show an eagerness for the ownership of
an automobile,” or words to that end.
“Tam sure that I represent the sentiment
of this body when I say that we must
take cognizance of this tendency and
disabuse the minds of our students in
the matter. I therefore move that this
faculty go on record as opposing the
introduction of automobiles into our
student body.”

“Carried unanimously,” said the pre-
siding officer.

Later the want ad column of Char-
lotte newspapers carried advertisements
of an automobile for sale. There is a

story behind the selling of this auto--

mobile. You have just read the story.
—The Charlotte News.

—000 for the Famine Sufferere—

rrr

gS

Lafayette College Raises Scholastic
_ ¢ Standards.

The faculty of Lafayette College has
passed a new rule, to go into effect next
year, which states that no man can re-
ceive a diploma whose average grade
for the four years is not 75 or better.
In other words a man must have the
equivalent of at least fifty percent C
grades in his courses to graduate.

The aim of this rule is to keep men of
some ability from going through col-
lege and just barely passing.

—The Lafayette.

Best Student at Oglethorpe to Receive
Signal Honor.

Sweaters being the coat of arms of
Oglethorpe will be awarded a limited
number of students, selected by the
faculty. To be eligible for a sweater, a
student must average 85 in all of his
work, must be an active worker in some
form of student activity and of good
moral character.

—The Petrel.

Harrell—"Kink, they tell me that you
are really married.”

King—“Yes, I have got the ring and
the preacher. All that I need is the
girl.”

o

—The Virginia Tech.

Clemson Kitchen and Commissary
Destroyed by Flames.
Flames, about two o’clock on the
morning of the 18th, destroyed the
kitchen and commissary of Clemson
College. The dogged work of the stu-
dents prevented the entire barracks
from being consumed by the flames.
The loss was entirely covered by in-
surance, and it is atiticipated that even
a better structure than the former one

will be erected.
—The Tiger.

Wake Forest to Celebrate Anniversary
of Two Literary Societies.

February 11th is the date set for the
celebration of the anniversary of the
two literary societies, an event which
is looked forward to with much inter-
est, not only by the Wake Forest stu-
dents but also by the fair inmates of
several near-by institutions.

On this occasion the societies put for-
ward their best products of forensic
ability, and exert themselves to provide
a most enjoyable form of social enter-
tainment.

—~Old Gold and Black.

——t000 for the Famine Suffererse——

MARKED SUCCESS.

(Continued from page 2)
byterian Church, was on the hill during
the conferences, and was tireless in his
efforts to make the undertaking a com-
plete success. He is to sail this fall for
Southern Brazil to engage in missionary
work there. Mr. Lane has made many
friends at Davidson, and his work will
be watched with great interest. The at-
tendance at the several services was
probably the largest that we have ever
had at similar religious gatherings, and
it seems to be the consensus of public
opinion that in every way this has been
one of the best series of services ever
held at Davidson.

——6000 for the Famine Sufferers——

Customer: Bowl of oyster soup, two
scrambled eggs, coffee and brown bread.

Ex S. A. T. C.: Marines in the mud,
two squads, deploy ’m, cup of reveille
and colored shock troops.—Rutgers Tar-
gum.

OU'LL cmoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe, |
because it’s a swect, mellow smoke. Follow the old
Pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, or more W D C Pipes

on your track. Smoke a cocl one every time.

Then you'll

know what a real smoke is. Any good dealer will furnish

you with several select shapes.

Woe. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

