‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

.

|

FIGHTING WOFFORD TEAM.

(Continued from page 1)

On the Gridiron

: all the limelights.
The Scrubs showed just how good they

were Saturday against Wofford.
; —WILDCATS—

Tech is going to run a special train to! (.gé' game, labbed. passes. fora net gain
New York.
engine with Tech colors, Gold and White.| some 17 yards through the line. His in-
Plans are now under way to get the|torference like that of Shepherd and
government to run a troop train from! tendrix was little short of sensational.
Atlanta to New York, and treat the big) Without detracting from the glory of
city with a parade of Tech students the backs, the main factor in the Wild-
down Broadway.

—WILDCATS—
Dope.

“N.C. State 7; North Carolina o.
North Carolina 20; Wake Forest o.
Wake Forest 10; Davidson 7.

You can’t always believe the forecast.
Figures showed that we were only about
two touchdowns better than Wofford.
The stuff were about
as many touchdowns better as we want-
ed to make.
—WILDCATS—
hopes that those 13 touch-
Saturday will not act as a

between wampus~ cats and  whang-

cats play was the drive of the linemen.
Although outweighed, they were always
‘in control of affairs in their territory.
‘Doc La Far was the master of cere-
monies and he pulled down any number
of aspiring Terriers.

up to their eyebrows.

The one best bet was, Car=
michael’s returning of kickoffs. The big
hoy was heavy and fast and the Pres-
byterians had trouble in stopping him.
But this was the only department in
which Wofford excelled. Aside from
the fine work of Carmichael, the bang-
up game of Stevenson and Shumpet in
the line featured for the Palmetto team.

visitor's

real showed. we

°
Everyone
downs last

jinx.

—WILDCATS—

Some time early in November, Col- Davidson Wofford
umbia Theological Seminary and Union] [first Downs --------- 34 2
Seminary will engage in a battle royal] Average Kick-off —---- 49 25
on the Davidson coyrts. Arrangements Average Return ------ 18 21
are being made for the Davidson tennis Average Punt —------- 26 20
team to play at least one, and: probably Average Return ------ 2 0
beth, of these teams. Passes Attempted —2-- .0 7

—WILDCATS— Passes Completed -.-- 6 2

Basketball Percentages Through Last .|/assts Intercepted --. 2 I

Friday. Yards Gained:
Won Lost Per- From Scrimmage -----587 57
; centage }0n Passes ------------ 168 4
Sophomores ------2 oO 1000 Returning Kick-off ~~~ 53 236
SOMOnsyessuawoeces I I 500 Returning Punts ----- 2 oO
Att) On sueeeeenaeneee I “2 333 Intercepted Passes --- 21 5
Breshijse cs ess I 2 333 —- oa
. —WILDCATS— 853 3o2
Yatus: Lost—.scslc ee 11 9

Rutgers’ coach said that the Tech team
was even better than the last
Saturday indicates.

Individual Gains from Scrimmage:

Boone Attempts Yards.» Averages

es McFadden _---- 6 2 4
—WILDC ATS— Rethea 11 3
The Richmond Spiders lost to Hamp-| Moore 160 10
den-Sidney by a score of 7 to 5. Schenck -<--.-- vA 72 10
—WILDCATS— WAVISi eer 1 5 5
The team leaves tomorrow night. Let's Shepherd apie 9 80 x
. ’ + ; rw 2
give ’em a good send off. We have con- Erwin SCRE 6 130
fidence in them so let's show it. Hendrix ------- 3 ¢ 14
WILDCATS (CheMwaioyntl 3 17 6
me pune LGtigy eee ee 2 16 8
The schedule this week shows the be-
acy ; BiOWN estcccosce 08 24 8
ginning of the really big games of the
On Passes:

year. After a* few weeks of practice
games, the teams of the big universities
are matching up with others their own
size and weight.
—WILDCATS—
Davidson. made the third highest
score run up by any team last Saturday.

Schenck, 38.
Black, 25.
Lake, 15.
Erwin, 80.

thrown by McFadden gained
53 yards, while Crawford’s passes gained

Passes

‘ as 105.
Cincinnati beat Kenutcky Weslyn 115-0. Tinesupi
Centre walloped Transylvania 98-0. Davidaon: Position: Wofford:
; —WILDCATS a 4 Davis cca eee |) Deere ee aes Davis
oe is the schedule for this Date aceE ee Phe eee Ott
week: i 5 >
(og SW, s2sscsa BGSeics ore Player
Beans Thursday October 27th. : BRiGer eee ares G22 Schumpert
U. S. C. vs. Clemson, at Columbia. lentape oR Chee Benner
Saturday October 29th. act Stauencan

Georgia vs. Auburn, at Columbus.
Furman vs. Citadel, at Greenville.

But Moore and Erwin did not absorb}
Hendrix, Shepherd,
Schenck and Crawford were all crosses | Jackson. |

ky 3 | Davis: rie re 5°
| doodies, Crawford playing his first col- | Davis; Davis for Richards; Allen for

They expect to paint the| oj 105 yards and in addition he tore off

LITERARY NEWS

| Black . RE svc Rivers|

Schenck ~--------- OBressse2 Thompson

McFadden -.------ 1b} 5 a bresapa nee, Gibson

Mb0re cei cat ccs RH se Carmichael

Beta oes seus aoe beakcuscubes Sanders

Score by quarters:

[Davidson ea phe samara EU FRESHMEN SOCIETY
| Wofford -.--

The Freshman Eumenean Society held
jits best meeting of the year last Tues-
day evening at 7:15. An interesting dis-
| cussion was waged on the question, “Re-
solved, That colleges in North Carolina
| should have supervision of high schools
| within a radius of one hundred miles of
them.” McLean and Freeland spoke on
the affirmative, and McSwain, Earnest

Length of quarters—15 minutes.
Officials: | Referee—Major, Clemson.
| Umpire—Long, N. C. Head linesman—

Substitutions—Davidson: Richards for
| Davis; Davis for Allen; Hamer for Long;

Long for Hamer; Sorrell for Brice;
Brice for Sorrell; Hunter for Clarke;

Black for Lake; Hendrix for Schenck ;| © Martin and Gallant completed the
Schenck for Hendrix; Crawford fOr |toeeuat

McFadden; McFadden for Crawford; McSwain, the first speaker on the
Erwin for Moore; Moore for Erwin;|"¢gative, spoke without the aid of notes
| Shepherd for Bethea; Bethea for Shep- | and his speech ranked second only to
herd; Long for McFadden; Brown for|that of his colleague, Earnest, who de-
Bethea; Mallory for Black; Boggs for|tivered the best speech of the evening
| Brown. Wofford: Carmichael for San-| Poth sides advanced good arguments,

students do not receive the best course
CblemantigmR vere of preparation for college, and that un-
D. ee a sel eaa plan this evil would
| »e alleviated. The negative advanced
THE GAME PLAY BY PLAY jthe argument that this plan would en-
jtangle the state schools and colleges
| Davidson to defend the north) with those under private or denomina-
|goal and Wofford elected to receive. tional control and make a much more
| McFadden kicked-off 50 yards to Car-| complicated and less efficient system of
inichael who returned 33 yards. LaFar! education,
topped Sanders without a gain, Car-| The house decided unanin
tiichael made § at left tackle and Gib-| yor of the negative, but the judges ren-
added 1 at right guard. Gibson/ dered their decision two to one in favor
laHnted 40. yards to Moore who return-| of the affirmative.
ed 12 yards to the 22-yard line. McFad-| Martin-gave-a-rendering-of-“The -Suc=
jden 4 around right end, Bethea through | cess of the Democratic Party During the
Heft tackle for 4, and Moore made first War,” which was followed by Gallant’s

for Ott; Sanders for Carmichael, E.;

chose

s

1ously in fa-

|
;son

down off right tackle. Schenck fumbled delivery of Patrick Henry’s famous
|hut recovered for a 2-yard loss. Me-) speech,
| Fadden around left end for 4 yards, then | D

| he punted 30 yards to Thompson. Clark!
jand Davis threw Gibson and Carmichael DIVI
tor 1 yard losses. Gibson's pass to Car- |
jmichael was incomplete. Schenck block- |
ed Gibson's punt and recovered on Wof-| Last Thursday night at ten o'clock
38-yard line. Moore made 14,|the members of the Phi Society held a
|Shumpert threw Moore for a 5 yard/smoker-for the purpose of discussing
Davis dropped McFadden’s pass. and deciding whether to divide the so-
|; McFadden punted to the 20-yard line.} ciety\or not. After an extended and
| Thompson lost 1. A pass, Thompson to| heated ‘discussion a vote was taken
| Davis, gained 3. Long got Gibson a | which showed there were 39 for division
vard behind the line. Gibson punted 30! and 27 against it.
j}vards to Moore who returned 12, Ball Promptly at the appointed time the
37-yard line. McFadden hit left] hall was crowded with enthusiastic sup-
anile for 4. Moore went around right} porters of division\and non-division.
lend for 3 and over center for 8. Schenck} After’ a very satisfactory repast the
| made 12 at left end, McKadden made 3,] question of division was ‘taken up. For
| Moore made 5 and then one foot. On|non-division McKeithen was the first to
| fourth with two feet to go,)speak. He first made a general report
| Schenck carried the* ball over. Schenck! of the condition of the society and then
| kicked goal. D. C. 7; Wofford o. stated his reasons against making a new
| McFadden kicked off 45 yards tojsociety. He showed that the difficulties
| Thompson who returned to the 3o-yard/in forming a new society on account of
Carmichael made 5 around right] funds, etc., would not warrant this ac-

CUSSED AT PHI SMOKER

| ford’s

| toss,

|
;on

down

Ine.

Glare ctor ti aiter latacrer Black: | 2" Lake opposed them. Declamations |

SION: OF SOCIETY IS DIS-|

the society into sections, each having
separate meeting hours.

J. C. Bailey, representative from the
Eu Society, explained, however, that the
society ‘divided into sections had met
with a miserable failure in the Eu So-
ciety.

Favoring the formation of a distinct
society were Burney-and Baldwin, who
argued that a “house divided’ against it-
self will fall.”

To this assertion Clark made a timely
reply which brought the house to’ its
feet.

After opinions from different members
were heard a vote was taken and the
| divisionists were found to be successful.
lA committee to be appointed by the
president of the society, with himself-as
chairman, will decide on some plan of

Davis, Hamer,| ers; Mozingo for’ Gibson; Porter for | the chief argument of the affirmative Ben lala
; :
| Clark and Hunter were also in the game | Bennett; Kingman for Thompson; Moore | !g that under the present system many |

D

| PHI FRESHMAN SOCIETY
. The curtain was raised at the Fresh
| Phi meeting revealing the stage all set
|for a hard fight on the question of
whether the Ku Klux Klan was an asset
jor a liability to the nation.
| Brown gave the affirmative a strong
| lead in showing that the Klan was tak-
|ing the law into its own hands and
| pointing out instances to back up his
statements. He gave a careful outline
|of his.speech and then followed it out
| well, presenting a strong argument.

Holtshouser- came back with a well
| built debate, soaring to the dizziést
[heights of oratory and clinching his
| points in thunderous tones. He told the
purpose of the Klan, told of the splen-
did service that the Klan had rendered
| in the past and of its untarnished record.

The next supporter of the affirmative,

Black, brought out a number of good
points, among which were the Klan be-
ing a refuge to which criminals might re»
treat and cover their crimes under the
|folds of a Ku Klux robe. He also
brought up a number of crimes com-
mitted by Klansmen in the past.

Singletery rallied to the aid of the
negative and brought forward some
strong argument in its favor. He show-
| ed that since there was no one else to do
it, the Klansmen were not outlaws when
they justly. punished the depredations of
| the carpet-baggers and negroes in, thé
|immediate post-war period. In conclud-
‘ing his speech he brought to light the
| political and social aid rendered the state
by the Klan and said that it was only
|due to their vicious ignorance that the
enemies of the Klan were attacking it.

Lewis, the last speaker of the affirm-
ative, told of the secret-and underhand

: (Continued on page 3)

end and then repeated for first down.|tion. McKeithen’s plan was to divide
Gibson fumbled and C, M, Davis re-
covered on the 43-yard line. Bethea

made 5 and Moore added 2 before the
quarter ended. Ball Wofford’s 38-

on A
yard line.

Rackets

We have one of the be
where in the country.
guaranteed service.

Second Quarter.

McFadden's pass to Schenck gained
17. Moore around left end for 7 yards.
McFadden made Moore made one
foot and first down. Moore went thru

right guard for another first down.
3ethea made 1. Moore circled right end.
(Continued on page 6) 5 W. Fourth St. (Just

st tennis racket restringers any-
We can give you quick and
Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.

EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN

Restrung

off Tryon) Phone $248

Harvard vs. Centre, at Cambridge.

Kentucky vs. Sewanee, at Louisville.

North Carolina vs. Maryland, at Col-
lege Park. :

N. C. State vs.
leigh,

Ga. Tech vs. Penn State, at New York.

Princeton vs. Virginia, at Princeton.

Wake Guilford, at Wake
Forest.

W. and L. vs. V. P. L, at Lynchburg.

Vanderbilt vs. Tennessee, at Nashville.

D. ;
MARSHALS AND SECOND
TERM OFFICERS
ELECTED BY EUMENEANS

V. M. L, at West Ra-

Forest vs.

At the regular meeting of the Eu So-
ciety last Thursday officers were elected
for the second term. P. A Miller was
elected president; D. H. Ogden, vice-}.
president; A. M. Hillhouse, secretary,
and J. M. Richards, reviewer. Patterson
is to retain the office of treasurer
throughout the year. The marshals for
Senior Speaking were also chosen: Those
selected were: J. C. Bailey, A. C. Sum-
mers, H. H. Smith, and J. P. Price:

THE NOVELTY FOUR.

This organization is just what the
name implies, a “Novelty” company.
Selections of great variety are given

company.

wa ye nor one . ‘

in a manner at once artistic aud en-
tertaining. Vim and life abound, and
the audiences are always enthusiastic
in their praise of this. splendid Lyceum

Instrumental music predominates,
but male quartet numbers and read-

Alex Taylor Al
Prices Right

Bill Go

PRARRAMPLRERARANNARRRRNS

What about that fall suit that

Strouse & Com
Baltimore

pany
ings also find’ place in their programs,

The orchestral numbers are rendered
with spirit and snap while the indi-
vidual instrumental work is excellent.
Violin, cornet ° and piano solos are
features of the program.

The Novelty Four is a company
which has made for itself an excep-
tionally excellent record on the Ly-
ceum platform. ‘ -

Van O. Browne is the manager and
feature artist of the company.

Standa

The Davidson

ena ae wae

Satisfaction Guaranteed

University Boot Shop Shoes for Every Occasion

season? It’s not.

Printing and Engraving of Every Kind

Full line of Fine Stationery---Plain, College Seal, Fraternity |
“If we haven't got what you want, we'll get it on short notice”

College Commissary

ee ee

GOLF - BASKETBALL - TENN

COME IN AND LOOK OVER THE LINE
Tennis Rackets restrung quickly

IS

1-Wool Sweaters.

odman’s

you failed to order ear]
too late yet for us.

Schloss Bros. & Company

Baltimore

ice in the

td Prices

Cor c perp rpg peer ge g yg ee

