Speaking of Sports

stiff opposition, upon opening up this

branch of sport, and as a consequence

dropped two matches; one to Washing-

ton and Lee, and a second to V. M. I.
—Wildcate—

Results from the R. O. T.C. Rifle Range
are encouraging and bring out the fact
that we have some pretty good “gun-
men” in college. Finch, W. M., led the
team with a total of 183 out of a possible
200 at close range in four positions. His
48 out of 50, kneeling, featured. Martin-
dale ran second with 179, and also scored
48 in the same event.

—Wildecats— ry

Interest in tennis is reviving again,
now that the spring weather has made it
possible for the racket-artists to work
up a good sweat.. Work on the courts
is well under way and. the end of the
week should find about a dozen ready
for use.

—Wildcate—

Followers of the little white pill better
recognized as the golf ball, are out on
the links these balmy spring afterndons,
getting rid of some of the kinks in their
arms, and the golf course is a scene of
activity these days. ,

—Wildcate—

The two girls’ basketball games dur-
ing the past week stirred up quite a lit-
tle interest on the hill. Mooresville
High trimmed the charges from Ashe-
ville by a 17 to 12 count. The lassies
from the Blue Ridge fought hard, but the
breaks were against them and they lost
a bitterly contested game.

The Greensboro maids took the meas-
ure of the Mooresville team, with the
Western championship at stake, on Sat-
urday night, by outplaying their heavier
opponents in every stage of the game.
Captain Erwin’s cohorts played consis-
tently, and were greatly aided by the
stellar work of Miss Forsyth at guard.

—Wildcats—

If you are fond of athletics, after read-
ing this column, lift up your bed mat-
tress and see the bed spritg.

. —Wildcatse—

On dort se faire connaitre aux
nouvelles concernant I’arriver demain
du M. Emite Villemin—. Venez l’ecouter
et soyez-vous bien amusesune fois.

—Wildcate—

Things are getting ripe around cam-
pus centers nowadays for that outbreak
of pep and spirit which will burst forth
next week-end, when the Wildcat base-
ball season opens. Two games with Oak
Ridge and one against the University of
New York.

—Wildcate—

Things are being boiled down con-
siderably on Sprunt Field and Coach has
his men putting in the final licks befere
the opening of the season. Jobs are by
no means cinched and a hard fight is
ensuing for berths on the nine.

—Wildcats—

The track artists are working out hard

under the_direction of Coach Grey and
- last week participated in a cross-country
run.

—Wildcats—

College baseball opens up next week
in the South and eager eyes aré being
turned toward the minyte when the
“Ump” will yeil out “Play Ball!”

—Wildcate— .

University of N. C. in Winston on
Easter Monday. Let's get right, Wild-
cats. Remember fellows—

The event—Davidson vs. U. N. C.

The time—Easter Monday.

The place—Winston-Salem, N. C.
Back the Special Train proposition.
—Wildcatse—
—_—_)DJ—_____

DAVIDSON BAND LEAVES
FOR THREE DAY TRIP

The Davidson College Wildcat band
left this morning on*a three-day trip
through the western part of the state.
The places to be visited are, Montreat
Nofmal- School, Asheville Normal Schoo!
and Lincolnton. .

An excellent program of 14 selections
has been well arranged by Director
Freeman. The Saxaphone Quartette has
been tuned up to the nth power, white
Bill Beck has Miss Lassus Trombone all
dressed up in the latest spring styles
for solo work.

The band will return Saturday night
through the country via Fords and the
bumpless highway. between, Jaybirds-
ville and Lineolnton.

Athletic News

The wrestling team ran into rather

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

DR. W. W. MOORE

(Continued from page 1)
morning, at the chapel hour, in Shearer
Halt. To give Dr. Moore time for his
address the chapel period was lengthen-
WILDKITTENS UNTAMABLE ed about an hour. The regular devo-

AGAINST WINSTON HIGH [tional exercises were conducted by Dr.
Moore, who read the 19th Psalm as the
morning lesson. Dr. Moore was then
formally introduced by Dr. Lingle, of the
faculty. In answer to the applause that
The fighting “Wildkittens” annexed| greeted his rising to speak, Dr.- Moore

McConnell and Toney Star for
Davidson.

Winston High School team into their|have been chosen to appear before the
lair with a score of 41 to 34. The game | Davidson student body to lecture on the
was exciting and spectacular through- | Christian faith.
out, both the “Hi” team and the Scrubs} Without further delay he launched
playing a rough game, each side strain-| into a discussion of Christ as the Im-
ing and putting all it had in it every! pregnable Center of the Christian faith
minute of the game. The game was/with the narration of the famous Sand
played before a large crowd that ap-|Bag Battery incident of the battle of
preciated the desperate battle and every|Inkerman. It will be remembered that
goal by cither side brought forth un-/at the battle of Inkerman, one of the
restrained cheers. most famous of the Crimean war, untold
The Scrubs got the jump on their op-| hundreds of lives were sacrificed “by
ponents and during the first half start-| both sides, to obtain and hold the Sand
ed piling up the score at an alarming Bag Battery, which, in the light of later
rate, until at the end of the first period developments, was of little or no tacti-
the scoreboard showed that the “Wild-|cal value. So it is with the defenders of
kittens” had 22 markers to their credit] the Christian faith, they spend much
while their opponents had been able to|time in the capture and defense of “Sand
garner only ten tallies. Bag Batteries"—points of Biblical state-
In the last half the battle was closer,iment that are unimportant. . The Bible
Winston coming from behind and out-/is not a text for the teaching of natural
scoring the Scrubs, but the big lead gain- science, its text is not incorrupt, its
ed in the first half was not to be denied language is that of the common people
and the final score showed the Presbyte- | of its day, it does not pretend to antici-
tians leading by seven points. This | pate science—hence many statements
desperate last minute rally of the High! that are seemingly false and which give
School lads was very .spectacular and great comfort to the skeptics and athe-
they dropped the sphere through theists. The capture of some of the posi-
ting enough times to make the score|tions of the Apologists has not changed
look respectable. anything for none of the essentials of
McConnell played the best game for Christianity are dependent on them.
Davidson, tossing the ball into the bas-|Rather their capture has been bene-
ket no less than nine times during the|ficial for it has caused the church to
fracas. Toney, at center, played a good | fall back on Christ—the Impregnable.
game finding the basket four times. Repeating I Timothy 3:16 (Revised
The whole Winston-Salem team played| Version): “Without controversy, great
good ball, showing better form than they/is the Mystery of Godliness, HE WHO
had displayed all season. Scheidt lead was manifested in the flesh, justified in
the team in scoring with. five field goals. the spirit,” etc. Dr. Moore proceeded
Davis, the diminutive guard, delivered to explain it: “The mystery of Godli-
the goods getting two field goals and|ness is not an abstract. doctrine but a

.

seven fouls. ;berson—a confessedly unique manifesta-
Summary: tion of moral beauty and spiritual pow-
Davidson Winston-Salem |er.” The perfection of Christ's human-
McDonald (6) -....---_._..-_.. Wilson | ity is the proof of His divinity and is
attested by His own consciousness of

McConnell (19) ~._--.___.. Sonnelly (7)|freedom from sin. He was justified in
His own moral nature. His véry mis-

Toney (8) .--.2-----..-. 22. Scheidt (10)| sion implies His sinlessness,\for he did
. “always those things that please the
D'’Armond (4) -......-.--- Johnston (4) | Father,” although He freely offered sal-

vation to others He was never concern-
ed about Himself’; He never confessed a
fault; never prayed for pardon. .
“The better a man is, the more keenly
e feels his moral unworthiness; yet
here we have the most sensitive con-
science ever. known calmly asserting His
spotless purity. The only possible ex-
planation of such a claim by such a per-
son is that it was true.” Furthermore
Christ is the only sinless man, which
one fact places Him in a separate class,
alone. He is perfect, and the only per-
fect example of the human race; through
the courts|the centuries the world has failed to
‘Ww net posts | produce His equal, yet man is a creature
ew nets are that ever advances. We must agree with
Gladstone that “Christianity is Christ,”
‘and Christ is impregnable.
Facts of Christ's Character.
Sunday morning, in the village church,

King (4) ----.-.....-..2...... Davis (11)
L. G.
Substitutions: Winston, Logan for
Johnston; Johnston. for Logan; Cofer!h
for Wilson. .

7D——__—_—_
TENNIS ENTHUSIASTS
WORKING ON COURTS

Within the last week, work on the col-
lege tennis courts has gotten well under
way and already two courts are in ex-
cellent condition and are being used.
New wire has-been put up,
cleaned and leveled off. Ne
have been placed and the n
already here ready for use.

In the past, tennis has proven a very
popular sport at Davidson, but die to
the scarcity of courts a number of men
were prevented from taking part. Now | before students, faculty and villagers,
that the courts have been fixed up, it is| Dr. Moore spoke on “The Embodied
hoped that the students will take real Ideal.” - Beginning with a description of
pride in them, and not go on the courts | Christ's lowly birth and simple life as a
with any kind of shoe cxcept the reg-| plain every-day Galilean he carried Him
ulation tennis shoe. If possible also through the three eventful years of His

wear the regulation tennis uniform of public ministry and ended with a graphic
white trousers and shirt. You wouldn't .

think of playing basketball in a foot-
ball uniform. Why play tennis in any-
thing but the regulation white trousers
and shirt?

From now on let's give tennis its prop-
er place at Davidson. By co-operation
and respecting a few simple rules we
can keep the courts in good shape and
enjoy one of the finest sports -in the
world. :

D—__.

Among the visitors from Greensboro
for the basketball game Saturday were:
Messrs. William York, Edgar Woods,
19; Misses Mary Poole, Carlotta John-
son, Nellie Irvin, Maude Forsyth Elsie
Flubarty, Margaret Myers, Helen Clapp,.
Doris Stennett, and Catherine Arm-

strong.

Among the visitors from Asheville,
playing basketball fiere Wednesday
were: Misses Eleanor Varnicenan, -Eliz-
abeth Simpson, Elizabeth Booton, Carrie
L. Taylor, Gertrude Neely, Annie Mae
Alexander, and Augusta Baonett.

picture—that beggars description—of the
scene on Olivet. Seemingly He was
doomed to oblivion. Yet today the sign
of His’ cross and not the eagle of Rome
stands as the symbol of world unity. By
His advent the world orients itself. His
life has inspired countless hymns of
praise, numberless works of art, books
without number have been written about
Him and He Himself gave to the world
much of its meagre knowledge on sev-
eral sociological and psycological ques-
tions. The religion of Christ has been

i

another game when they took the strong | expressed himself as being delighted to|the most potent influence in the purify-

ing and elevating of the world and it is
all due to His character.

The symmetry of His character is no-
table, “the even proportion and perfect
balance of all His qualities.” His char-
acter is free from’ the limitations of His
age; it is universal, “embodying the ideal
of all ages, nations and temperaments.”
Furthermore Christ made m: super-
natural claims for Himself that no mere
man could ever make. *

It is true that it is easier to consider
Christ as a mere man rather than as
both divine and human. But it is not
always the easiest hypothesis that is
true; as witness, the complexity of the
universally accepted Copernican theory
of the universe as over against the sim-
plicity of the discarded Ptolemaic. Even
so “the hjghes conception of Jesus is
necessary to explain the tidal move-
ments of thought and feeling and the
change of spiritual climate wherever His
religion goes.” “The higher conception
of Christ is vitalizing, the lower dead-
ening,” as witness the flourishing condi-
tion of the orthodox churches which is
in’ such strong contrast to the slothful
decadence of the Unitarians.

The natural and logical conclusion is
“that Jesus Christ was a divine being—
that the Christian ideal was embodied
in a persons who was God as well as
man. It can never be outgrown or super-
seded.”

Comments on Modern Scepticism.

Sunday night, again speaking in the
village church, Christ was further dis-
cussed as “The Moral Power of His-
tory.” Although seemingly doomed to
inevitable oblivion, Christ became the
leader of all the real progress of the
race. He-alone has succeeded in estab-
lishing a world-wide and eternal king-
dom—succeeded where Constantine and
Charlemagne and Napoleon failed.

The principles that gave His religion

pre-eminence were: love, brotherhood,

service. Over against them is the appeal

of the modern philosophies, as an ex-|%

ample that of Nietzsche, to self-interest,

with a super-man “developed by enslav-|&

ing and crushing the weak. He is not
subject to the laws of morality.” In fact
a very barbarian. There is but one in-
fallible test for all philosophies, their
effects. Germany accepted the doctrines
of Nietzsche with open arms and today
Germany is crushed, and despised of all
the world.

The appeal of Nietzshe to the young, &%

man lies in his glorification of power.
He has sought to charge that Christian-

your order.

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bets.
$2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 90 cents to

CAROLINA SPORTING G

EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN.’

ity is anaemié and incomptatible with
the manly virtues. But he is wrong, for
“Jesus was the embodiment of power as

l as love.” “His ability to create
great men proves Him divine; no other
hero of history has this power. His re-
ligion only is the religion of great per-
sonality.” To prove it it is- only neces-
sary to call the roll of the really great of
history: Paul, Huss, Luther, Knox, the
Covenanters, Washington, Lee and Foch.

Conclusion.

The key of the situation is Christ. He
is the impregnable center, He is the
embodiment of the ideals of the world,
He is the great moral power of ‘history.
He is the keystone of the arch, the so-
lution of the problem of humanity.

MRR:

| Kodak Finishing |

EIGHT-HOUR. SERVICE

PRICES
Vest Pocket 4c
2 1433 14 Sc
2 1-224 1-2 6c
41-436 1-2 6c
Developing any size roll 10c

We use glossy paper unless other-
wise requ . :
with order or work will be ¢

Cash
E mailed C. O. D. 3
Send negative for sample print :

Charlotte Photo Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

arhehetateteetata

aaa

LORIILIENLIT III

. Double Gearsater, free Toning Pien

Wiiite for
‘atalogue,
Prices and
Terms

a

‘THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”

And other standard makes aad the
iacomparable

AMPICO
® Reasonable terme of paymentcan bearranged §

Teniog, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.

Gnabe W,
209-211 W. Trade &t., Chaslotte, N.C,
& Stores alsoat Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Aetetwieieieie

Bat

Our g'oves run from
$3.50 each. Give us

OODS CO.

.

Phone 3248

