‘ ©

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIA

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

N

‘FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
of the Second Cla

ss.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter
Soe OU NSCRIBNION RATS!
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

les for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor befor

All Artic

e

12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Forum Editor
ampus Editor
A.

. _Editor- in-Chief
Managing Editor
Managing Editor

~ RICHARDS...
R

I As o tor
R -Assignment Editor : Social Editor
A. .-Athletic Editor ) ue aiterary Editor
A. ---Alumni Editor WwW. BR -.....-........ Publicity Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN.---.-----Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
: S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.

f » W. Z. 7. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sce.-Treas.
CALHOUN, M. P. 5 . W.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E tT. AL , 2B
ELLIOTT, W. t. *MAHOOD, D. L ,

FEWELL, ED, MAUZE, E. If
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. Cc. WOOL 5 Business Manager '
, KE. ‘T. WOOLFOLK and W. S, SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
\ . DOUBLES Circulation Manager _ Assistants in Circulation Dcpartm:nt:
i x RUSSELL and C, D. TULLER 5S. VAIN ‘ B.C, HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers We McCAIN RK. LL, PRICK

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

"Tis a wise freshman that knows his own fresh cap.
anys

every man in the student body should be on hand to help give the
team a good send off when it leaves to invade the Old Dominion tomor-
row night. Don’t be a slacker, .

—D)

If an early start is any sign of success, this year’s Quips and Cranks
should be a world-beater. The editors have started carly and the
photographie work has been practically completed almost: before we
realized that college had opened. f

——_—_—_—-|)

¢
The fact that there have been more than forty members of the

freshman class to volunteer as Davidsonian reporters speaks well for}

the spirit of that class.

Ea) fy ome

The change of time for Bible classes from Sunday morning until
Wednesday might seems to be a weleome one, and there is no good
reason why every man in college should not support the “Y” by attend-
ing one. ‘

—I)

Patronize our advertisers:

-D
THE COLLEGE EOY’S J

OB.

NOR what purpose does a boy many go to one of our higher in-
k stitutions of learning? Ti question which would seem to be
easy of solution, and the most of us would readily answer that he
goes to improve his mind and prepare himself for success in later life
hy his studies there. Such an answer would undoubtedly be correct as
to the purpose for which a man should attend college, but a glance at
the campuses of today would cause serious doubt as to how many col-
lege students really entertain sucha purpose.

The modern student seems to consider his books as a matter of see-

ondary importance, which should occupy but tittle of his time and)

thought. They are necessary evils, with which he must maintain a
speaking acquaintance in order that by hasty cramming he may
squeeze by on his examinations, and in the course of four years win a
diploma, but which furnish him with no real cause for concern, ‘The
diploma is his sole object and the acquisition of any learning in the
process of obtaining it matters little: His only fear is that his studies
may somehow interfere with his enjoyment of college life.

The blame for this attitude toward his work may be at least par-
tially attributed to the changes which have taken place in college life
within the last twenty years. New activities have come. to oceupy a
large share in the work of the student. Intercollegiate athletics, work
on the student publications, Y. M.C. A. activities, and social organiza-
tions furnish good and seemingly necessary reasons for neglecting his
scholastic work. And surely no one would deny the value of these
activities. Fach has a peculiar merit of its own and contributes some-
what to the making of a better and abler man, yet each if induleed in
to excess may prove of far greater harm than ‘benefit. The prob!
is to assign to each one of them its proper place in college life and
proper share of the student’s tire.

sn

No open minded person would urge that a boy bind himself down
to a ceaseless grind of study. To do so would serve only to produce
a mind developed out of all proportion to the physical being and the
social instincts. The fact remains, however, that studies should take
precedence over all other college activities. The benefits derived from
the latter are many, but they are not such as can be had only at college
Life offers other opportunities equally advantageous for experience in
these lines, but at no other time will such an opportunity come for the
study of books as is found in coilege. It is for this pursuit of learning
that the colleges were established and this pursuit constitutes the real
task of the college hoy.

| The college boy who neglects his studies for other affairs can he
considered as nothing less than dishonest—dishonest to his parents ja
that he is spending their money for nothing; to his country in that he
is losing an opportunity for making himself a more useful citizer:: and
to himself in that he is taking four of what should be the most valuable
-years_of his life and literally throwing them away.

| pom

}

————

——

1

JA Open Forum

{IN RE: LITERARY SOCIETIES

Within the last two weeks there has
been considerable discussion as to the
desirability of establishing one or more
new literary societies at Davidson. In
some quarters the discussion has gone
so far that the proponents of one of the
new societies have selected a name for
their young hopeful. The advocates of
the new idea have marshalled a consid+
erable array of facts to’ support them
n their contention; facts that are ap-
parent to every observant man on the
hill, A brief summary of these facts
would informing and for brevity’s
sake will list them: (1) That the
present societies are unwieldly; (2)
That there is a lamentable lack of com-
petition between the existing societies ;
and (3) That the lack of real competi
tion for new men acts as a blighting in-
fluence from the very start, i.e, if you
are from Georgia and want to belong
to a literary society, you should join the
Eumenean, you have no choice.

It is a lamentable fact, however, that
having proceeded so admirably to a cer-

,

be
we

tain point, the advocates of the new so-
cieties are at a loss as to how to pro-
ceed; torn between conflicting councils
Wf surprising multiplicity and variation,
they are standing still. To a careful
jand impartial observer there are only
two courses of action open; either new
societies in fact as well as in name, or
co-ordinate branches or sections of the
existing societies, must be established.
The idea “associated” or “friendly”
sucieties is at once inconsistent and ab-

horrent,

Vo proceed with a discussion of the
first course of action as outlined above.
ft is appealing—to some. To it
‘will bring the honor of being remem-
bered as among the founders of a new
to others—or should we say
from others —it will take away the honor
of belonging to one of the historic so-
more of that anon, These

some

seciety;

cieties, but

;men are inconsistent, however, on one

they insist on retaining some con-
nection with the mother society; which
view is inconsistent with their sultiatied
jintentions and abhorrent to the existent
| It would seem that the only
‘honorable and at the same time con-
| sistent. course would be one somewhat as
outlined below. In brief: Such as think
there is need of societies new in name

| societies.

to withdraw from the old societies, form
lnew societies, that would be independ-
bent of all existing societies and all geo-
graphical lines, vote themselves such
| credits they may fit and then
proceed to compete with the old so-

as see
| cieties in all inter-society competitions.
| If they do not want to hold to the old
{names their endeavor becomes at once
personal and in no way an affair of the
| now existant the
old societies should not only proceed
to put
within their halls but should proceed
without delay along some such lines as
are laid down in the next paragraph.
To proceed with a discussion of the
| second and honorable course of action,

societies; wherefore

a stop to. seditious discussion

| The two societies now existent here date
i from the founding of the college. Tradi-
ltion they have and an honorable his-
tory. To them, in no slight degree,
clings that air of romance that we are

wont to associate with the historic past’

and that we sincerely revere in/our more
philosophical moments; in short
‘soul,” something that it takes
}years to acquire and is never acquired
by many similar institutions. Back in
the homes of many of their present

have_a™'

members hang yellowed parchments that’

jdectare that some father or grandfather
or uncle was a graduate of the Eume-
jncan or the Philanthropic. Perhaps it
does not always blaze with a consuming
passion, but the desire is there in every
{breast to emulate their forbears. The
| present societies owe a sacred debt to
| these men and to those that will come
after them to enable them to accom-
plish that end. There is only one way
in which they can discharge that obli-
gation and that is by the establishment
of co-ordinate sections or branches of
the existent societies.

The adoption of either of the above
courses of action would vitally affect the
student body. It is the duty and at the

use its tongue and its pen.

G. Q. III.

D. W. Roberts, '21, and W. H. Miley,
Jr., ’21, are members of the faculty in
Westminster Preparatory School, near
Rutherfordton, N. C.

they |

same time the privilege of that body to)

| CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIE

S

STUDENTS’ BIBLE CLASSES
HELD WEDNESDAY NIGHTS

This year Davidson has changed the
hour of meeting of its Bible classes from
Sunday morning to Wednesday night.
On this night at 9 o'clock the bell will
ring and on every hall in school the
students will gather for a few minutes
consecrated to the study of God’s Word
and for. discussions concerning the re-
ligious and moral problems that con-
front every man in school, whether he
be Freshman or Seniog. Topics that
vitally affect the spiritual growth and
development of all Davidson men and
which all have to face daily will be
treated in a Christian-like and practical
way.

The change in the time of the meet-
ings wasslargely due to the example set
hy Georgia Tech. Her Bible classes are
known all over the South for their high
percentage of attendance and genera!
efficiency, a large part of which is at-
tributed to the fact that their weekly
meetings are held at a convenient time.

Dr. J. L. Douglass has taken charge of
the teacher's class, composed of about
40 men, which meets, just prior to the

sregular classes on Wednesday evening.

This fall the Book of Acts is to be
studied, so every man has a text-book
which he is expected to use, and use
diligently. We hear of the “Davidsom
Spirit” on the athletic field and in other
phases of college life, so let’s put some
real life and vim in our Biblicak. study |
this year and push Davidson to the fore-
front in Southern Bible class circles.

D
RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOLS
HAVE GOOD
OPENING ATTENDANCE

Local Christian Endeavor Welcomes |
the New Students.

The Y. M. C. A. Rural Sunday Schools
started off with an unprecedented rush
this year, According to the attetidances
of the initial meetings the prospects are
for one of the most successful years in
their history at Davidson. These Stinday
Schools are run by the students under
the supervision of the “Y”" and any new
men who have had experience or wish to
take part in Sunday School work may
help by giving their names to any of
the superintendents named below.

The attendance and number of teach-
ers at the various Sunday Schools last
Sunday follow:

School and Supt. Pupils. T’ch’rs.
Oak Grove—Cooper -------- 25 4
Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson -- 40 6
Gonrelitis—Glank 22222022 —-— 63 7
Shearer—Mellwaine ~------ 35 2

Caldwell—Patterson No Report.

The Christian Endeavor Society gave
the college boys a very warm welcome
when they held a social in the Y. M. C.

A. Gym on Tuesday night, September
tath. The new Endeavorers present
were introduced, after which games

were played. Later in the evening de-
licious refreshments were served, About
35 persons were present.

pe eee) Yeisen mre

‘THREE SHIFTS IN STAFF OF
PAPER FOUND NECESSARY

Several shifts in the Davidsonian staff
have ‘taken place since the opening of
school, Johnnie Curry, who resigned
from his position as business manager,
now fills the chair of Peanut Parcher
editor, while Ray Doubles, who origina!-
ly held this latter office, is now the cir-
culation manager, and J. C. Wool holds
the business manager's place.

When Johnnie Curry found it neces-
sary for him to give up the handling of
the business end of The Davidsonian, al’
connected with the paper realized what
a loss this meant to the publication. A
;man has been found, however, who
{promises to do great things with the
| paper's finances. This is J: C. Wool, new
busines manager.

The election of Ray Doubles to fill the
position of circulation manager, Wool’s
former office, rendered the Peanut
Parcher vacant, and as a result Johnnie
Curry now edits that department.

D.

The motor car of today is a splendid

| example of scientific progress. And yet

|careless’ pedestrians are continually
| spoiling its delicate machinery with
small pieces of themselves—London
Opinion.

| ballot taken,

J.

OPENING VOLUNTEER BAND
DEPUTATION SUCCESSFUL

Ted Jones and Bill’ Beck returned
Monday morning from Derita, where
they went on a deputation for the Vol-
unteer Band. They report that this was
the best deputation they have ever
made as well as being also the first to
go out this year. These men spoke to
a hundred and fifty at: Mallard Creek
Sunday morning and a hundred and
twenty-five at Nevins, Sunday afternoon,
returning to Mallard Creek that night
to conduct a meeting of the young peo-
pic. Here the men suggested organiz-
ng a Christian Endeavor Society, which
met with a hearty response, and it is
p'anned to do this in the near future.
The deputations from the Volunteer
Band have atways found a hearty wel-
come everywhere, and it is planned by
the band to send out as many as pos-
sible this year,

RUSE AURA: p Vie nui sae
T. M. LOWRY ELECTED
NEW PRESIDENT

Everyone regrets the fact that Leon-
ard Dick was unable to return to col-
‘ege this year. His absence is keenly
felt on the campus by all of the old
men. Dick's failure to come back made
vacant the office of president of the
student body. At a meeting of the stu-
dent council the following men were
nominated for this office: J. C. Bailey,

M. Richards, J. M. McFadden, and
M. Lowry. :

Ata meeting of the student body held
on Wednesday of last week these nomi-
nations were approved and the first
In this first vote McFad-
den and Lowry received an equal num-
ber of votes, necessitating a second
ballot. In the second ballot Lowry re-
ceived the majority of votes and was
thereby elected to the office of presi-
lent of the student body,

We are sure “Bishop” will make us an
‘xcellent student body president, and it
hoped that every man, on. the hill
will lend him their loyal support.

Owing to the fact that “Bishop” Lowry
found it necessary to resign as presi-

It,

s

dent of the Senior class, in accepting the
office of president of the student body,
the Seniors called a meeting for the
purpose of . electing to
-ced him,

The following men were nominated
tor this office: W. 1. Knox, Johnnie Cur-
rie, J. K. Price, W. M. McLeod, and E.
b&. MeGukin. The result of the first ba'-
‘ot gave McLeod and McGukin the high-
est number. of votes. _A-second_ballot
was taken on Monday morning, electing
McGukin to this office.

MeGukin, or “Guke,” as he is known
to us, is a friend to everybody on the
campus. His ready smile always drives
away the blues, and we are all glad to
sce this honor conferred upon him,

D
DELEGATION FROM

someone suc-

DAVIDSON —
(Continued from page 1)

‘xcept one night; ask Sam Stony, or a

certain K. P., if he is still alive.

Major Hearn, Captain Ellis and Cap-
tain Wetherby were three of the most
popular officers in the whole camp, and
every Davidson man was proud to say,
fie is from my college. But they were
equally happy over the record made by
their protegees. Along military lines,
Davidson ranged fourth in our area, and
had one of the highest averages made.
Living up to her name, she had three
men on the ‘company baseball team;
Neel, Hursey. and Mauze; besides Me-
Gukin who was our track man, placing
nr the broad jump. In boxing, Roberts,
was one of the big stars of the camp.

Every time the general inspected bar-
racks, the Davidson quarters in charge
ot Lowry were given highest honors.
Because every fellow worked hard, they
made a record for all of the men in
coming

! f years to shoot at, and one
which is going to be hard to beat.
D.

“God hath not promised
Skies ever blue,

Flower-strewn pathways
Always for you.

God hath not promised
Sun without rain,

Joy without sorrow,
Peace without pain.

But He hath promised
Strength from above,

Unfailing sympathy,
Undying love.” ;

—Author Unknown.
