THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.

5

UNIVERSITY FRESHMEN

(Continued from page 1)

ef the field, but the last time the ball
rested on the two foot line when the
final whisle sounded. Lake
perfect pass from Crawford and romped
over the white line for the last touch-
down. The passing of Crawford was
nothing short of spectacular; time and
time again this athlete hurled the pig-
skin into the arms of a waiting end or
back. Crawford's passing was the pret-
tiest seen in many a moon. Moore ran
the team in excellent shape, while Raker
and Harris could be counted on for gains
any time. ‘McLaurin and Ballard showed
that they are promising backs. Lake
and Richards looked good on the wings
and very few Fresh ran around them.
The line was like a stone wall, Knight,
Hamer and Cox being the main supports.
Grey looked good in center position,
while Hodgin played a nice game at
guard.

received a

Norman Shepard, of the ’20 Davidson
Varsity, refereed the game and did a
nice job.of it.

Gastonia Game.

Last Friday morning the Scrubs jour-
neyed in automobiles to Gastonia, where
they battled with the proteges of Coach
Armstrong. The game at 4
o'clock at the Fair Grounds just outside
‘of the city.’ The speed and off-tackle
plays, mixed with well executed passes,
enabled the Scrubs to.walk away with
the large end of a 34-0 score.

started

After the first ten minutes of play,
Davidson in danger. The
High School lads started a great: offen-
sive after receiving the ball on the kick-
cff. Passes from Hord to Falls and Gar-
mise were very effective, but the Wild-
kittens rallied and took. the offensive;
Oevrton passing from behind his own
goal line, shot a beautiful pass to Moore,
which netted 30 yards. From this time
on the Scrubs were never in danger. The

Was never

over-anxious Scrubs were penalized sev-
eral times for offsides and holding, but
this only made the Wildkittens wilder.

The field was extremely “heavy” and
dusty, the dust rising from it as smoke
from a battleground. This prevented
much speed by either side; but the work
of Baber and Jacobs stood out for the
Gastonians, while the end runs of Me-
Comb, line plunging of Woods and pass-
ing of Overton stood out for the Scrubs.
The from Overton to
Phillips at critical times showed up ex-
ceedingly well.

After the game the members of the
squad were entertained in several homes.
After supper a reception was given at
the High School in honor of the visiting
team, which was enjoyed and appreciated
by all.

several passes

Gastonia (0). Position. Davidson (34)
NINithnVWavcencoucss RES oes Philips
Ratchford, B. ~--_- NL ctueskwaduue Regen

SADOT cieuucasseuua RGsiaaies Lowry (C)
RGam: cocewonne se ( oe iceey ene Pare Briggs
Johnson ~ Lewis
Ghikgeeseeceioies | Be rae Young
GannNIS6 cccccucuce Wiguweanawawwe Moore
Underwood, C. C.--QB_--------- Overton
HA leases eu sous RE vee acauaa Woods
Underwood,-C,.H,--LH-_--2-2_2__- Smith
Hande(@)rodangetues BBEseess McCombs

Score by periods:
GBstoninuntmliaavcsscubos 0 0.0
BY Wkel Cope Sha ghbeny es 7 014 7—34

Substitutions--Gastonia: Parker for C.
HW Underwood, C.: H. Underwood for
Parker, Rutter for Parker, C. B. Moore
for Baber, Baber for C. B. Moore, H.
Ratchford for C. E, Underwood, C. Mar-
shall for Grigg, Boyd for Johnson, Jacobs
for Garmise, Collecta for Jacobs, Glenn
for W. Smith, W. Smith for Glenn, Davis
for Glenn, Johnson for Boyd, Bigger for
Baber. Davidson: Robins for Overton,
Overton for Robins, Roddy for Moore,
Weeks for Young, Ford for Lewis.

Officials—Referee: Sims (U. N. CG);
umpire: Julian (Davidson); head lines-
man: Keenler (Tenn.)
12 minutes,

Time of periods:

o— 0}

In the September issue of The Ghar-|
anty News there is an article by Leopold |
A. Chambliss, 18, on the Literature of
Fiduciary Activities. The Guaranty
News is published by the Guaranty Club
of New York, which club is composed of
officers and clerks of the Guaranty Trust
Company of New York. Chambliss has
for some time been connected with this
firm and he seems to be making good
tGltics

SESE EAEENE py ENO

* Rev. J. W. Lafferty, 1883, has recently
removed to Rome, Ga., from Port Gib-
son, Miss.

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRARRRKK

STETSON SHOES

THE STETSON SHOPS, Inc.
NEW YORK CITY :

A full line of samples.

Not for two days, or three,

: but all the time.
x
:
ry

Here every week a verse of

J

)

“ Away we step with joy and

pep :

With ease and comfort too

For it’s good for one’s “sole”
to-take a stroll

On the road of ‘' THE STETSON
SHOE”. ;

W. J. COOPER

| soe

JAMES McCUTCHEN
2 WATTS

:

“The Stetson Road.” :
|

5

q

as

Why Is Iron Magnetic? a

horse-shoe magnet attracts a steel needle. But why? |

\ We don’t know exactly. We do know that electricity and mag-
netism are felated.

In dynamos and motors we apply electro-magnetic effects. All our
power-stations, lighting systems, electric traction and motor drives,
even the ignition systems of our automobiles, depend upon these

magnetic effects which we use and do not understand.

Perhaps if we understood them we could utilize them much more

efficiently. Perhaps we could discover combinations of metals more
magnetic than iron.

The Research Laboratories of the General Eiectric Cornpany investi-

gate magnetism by trying to find out more about electrons and their
arrangement in atoms.

X-rays have shown that each iron atom consists of electrons grouped
around a central nucleus—like planets around an infinitesimal sun.
X-rays enable us to some extent to see into the atom and may at last |
reveal to us what makes for magnetism.

This is research in pure science, and nothing else. Only thus can real
progress be made.

Studies of this kind are constantly resulting in minor improvements. |

But some day a discovery may be made which will enable a metallur- |
gist to work out the formula for a.magnetic alloy which has not yet been

cast, but which will surely have the properties required. Such a result
would be an achievement with tremendous possibilities. It would
i improve all electric generators, motors, and magnetic devices.

In the meantime the continual improvement in electrical machinery
proceeds, in lesser steps. These summed up, constitute the phenom-

enal progress experienced in the electrical art

five years.

General@Electric
any Schenectady, N. Y.

General Office

Com

during the past twenty-

95-453H

PPPPPPPEPPPPPPPPEPPPEPPPEPPPEPPPEPPEPEEPPPEEREREEEEVELELEULELEEEEUELUEREERS

Saunanannneananeaananannanannaananannaneananaacanaananna
am 1 1

0 Mn te

Real Cold Weather is Not Far Off
You Will Need a Warm, Stylish Overcoat

When you are ready you will find
it hete.

The man who knows where to go for
his clothes---who knows where he can
choose with confidence and assurance

that his purchase will be right, is head-
ed for this store.

Suits - Hats
Overcoats Shirts
Raincoats _Sox, Etc.

RARRRRRRRE

Make This Store Your Headquarters

BROWN'SS Inc.

34 South Tryon

The Home of Kuppenheimer Good Clothes

BARARARAAAAAARARAARAAAAARARAARRARARAL AARRRARAAAAAA

oe UM 1

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits

designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel
—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements: demanded by this store.

An Unusual Display at
$35 $40 - 845

Featuring the new 1-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college Clothes

' HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN CoO. :

A ‘Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the wor!d pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists ‘'

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE. Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

SUCCESS

Many college men are going into Life insurance as a profession and are making good,

The Southern Life and Trust Company is a Southern institution, operating in Southern
territory. :

The Multiple line of this Company will enable you to tie up
get you fitted into the line of work to which you will be best suited.

Write us.

Southern Life and Trust Company

A. W. McAlister, President Arthur Watt, Secretary
H. B. Gunter, Third Vice-President and Agency Manager

Capital $1,000,000.00

with a going concern and

RRRRRRRARRARURRLALLLLPEKRLKEKRALNREPRKRERRERERRRRRRRRRN

4

