THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

STROUSE & COMPANY

Of Baltimore will give their Spring display Friday and Saturday, 14th and 15th, showing a

| Good Suits for $25.00. Be sure to get measured on the above dates.' Suits can be delivered

complete line of “ALL-WOOL)” fabrics.

THE GREATEST REDUCTION IN PRICE IN YEARS

/

any time in Spring.

THE MACAMAC COMPANY

et

BASKETBALL PRACTICE
BEGINS.

(Continued from page 1)
gctting last year. Several of this year’s
Fresh team are among the candidates
also.

Altogether the prospects for a winning
team are very bright and it is with the
greatest hopes that we look forward to
a successful season on the indoor court.
D——_——.

LARGE ATTENDANCE AT
FIRST “Y” SERVICE OF YEAR

Dwight Chalmers Begins Work by
Delivering Thoughtful Speech.

Dwight Chalmers, the new Y. M. C.
A. Secretary gave the first talk of the
year at the “Y” service on Sunday night.
His principal themes were “Consecra-
tion” and “Sincerity to Purpose.” In an
‘informal manner he discussed his topics
with his audience and elaborated his
themes by many striking examples and
quotations.

He urged that we all have a “central
purpose in life which we stand for and
let every other purpose be tributary to
it.” As a helpful suggestion, as to what
the central purpose should be, “Conse-
cration to Christ” was given as a model
on which to work. “Trust God with.
everything,” Chalmers urged, “and each
new day will be a new victory for the
true Christian.”

The thought of sincerity to one’s fel-
low men was then eniphasized.

Too much credit cannot be given to
those ‘members of the College Band, who
kindly offer their services to the “Y”
every Sunday evening. Under the direc-
tion of D. R. Freeman and Huston
* White, they add greatly to the interest
and devotion of the services. This week
the Band Cornet Quartette played “Hark
the Herald Angels Sing,” with variations.
A vocal quartette sang a well known
evangelistic hymn.. One of the most
appreciative musical numbers was a
Saxiphone duet given by W. R. Booth
and Stuart Buchanan.

Dave Roberts conducted the meeting,
and as chairman of the Devotional Com-
mittee, promised many good speakers
‘this term,

D——_

Mrs. Agnes Douglass and Mrs. Grace
James spent the holidays with Dr. and
,. Mrs. J. M. Douglass.

Mf. Maicalm Rumple, of Cleveland, O.,
‘spent Christmas at Davidson.

| Misses Mary and Lizzie Young visited
ifriends in Concord during the holidays.

Mra. William Minter, of Austin, Tex.,
| was a visitor here to her son this week.

ee

“AT THE POWERHOUSE”

ly,

if

Re., Kore» unrd from the, wood |
Corkainly Abipped ow not Aippu that Ine. Bacow Amutid ane 1 jor
Ris shina panty wp Row Ginnie. a Rua NintReast Canny Casts St
Aunt yestorday. And a ruot dtartid fefore we Aquansd upto the
vemsow Atiak! ” Listen, ofc full pup, ay rales short!

Bhak Ninn, fead quide, while umpacting,
se op oat eat,
feand such) a fowl 00 th tle Ot set pt Nixon Awore dn Indian-
plir-Comuck! Just svoulant be pacified! Phar leew rovting for Chmabs,
Aunce November IVs. §
refresluma flasor, or mild Aw @ Ctgantlé aw Camely prnde!
(fete, ARak ww 0K. ow Rat). te rvour Juaw ow what dew Nixow
do but fof wid Rin Camoe and disappear. ants the depths of te Tught!

a>, (Uout Hue tis mouning There vay © Asar Auch As he swam Luter heard un

—

the wnild woods! St was Nixon Ayellung tite a doubledeckod. Full .Us000!
SE That fiid fad Crossed the Care, picred apy a Ail and feat itte a

D> Cittle way-bnex Atore. whee fie got die Goes out of fed. andmade tain
i Come aorace) wits aft ihe Romete, Re fad* Ths sede ANioked, Cite av

7 acey— but, Blhak always geto shat after! It
Ke tn, actos Od, hour were ad filed uate mien of Raman
Mividesss ond Camel Covtoitmont WEI! get game!

Peter-think of dutaing. upp 0» funeh, of ComeLesin the depths of haines domsest
Avo! Gs att At ww all ovir the W.S A! Low eur out of
fwd whew you Suro Camels! Ce, od Rub, Ive spote= as Te Cook puts it!

Back wm New Lov — welt — Sewn |!

Ses

How never wan Auch Auovtiineby or Cod

