oO

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

eee «a Er le ~ co =

SPECIAL OFFER

To those purchasing Suits at THE TRAYMORE TAILORING
COMPANY'S opening

HIGH PRICES CUT TO PIECES
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, 25th and 26th

THE MACAMAC COMPANY
AT THE POWERHOUSE

WAKE FOREST TO
HAVE SUMMER SCHOOL
Tennis Team Organized With J. C.
Kesler as President.
(By N. C. Collegiate Presse Service)

Wake Forest, Feb. 19—Following the
organization of a Wake Forest Tennis
Club, four new courts are being con-
structed on the track field which was
originally built for courts. All students
are eligible to membership of the club

- upon payment of the three dollar fee,
which entitles the payee to all privi-
leges of the club during his residence
at Wake Forest. J. C. Kesler was elect-
ed president of the club and J. L. Mem-
ory manager.

At a recent meeting of the faculty
committee on the Wake Forest Summer
School details apropos of that project
were worked out. Dr. William Louis
Poteat is president of the Summer
School; Prof. H. T. Hunter, director;
Mr. E. B. Earnshaw, registrar, and Miss
Campbell, of Meredith College, dean of
the women students. The school will
open June 14th and close July 27th. It
was decided that the faculty of the
Summer School would be chosen from
those of Wake Forest, Meredith, and
Oxford Colleges. Courses will be offer-
ed in about every college department,
and those which are required by the
State Board of Education for North
Carolina teachers, and also eleventh
grade work will be given so that high
school students will be able to remove
conditions for college entrance—Old
Gold and Black, Wake Forest College.

—_
TRINITY TO DEBATE RICH-
MOND AND SWATHMORE.
(By N. C. Collegiate Prest Service)

Trinity College, Feb. 17—At a recent
meeting of the Trinity College Inter-
Collegiate debaters and the faculty ad-

You’ve said it all
when you say “Camels!”

But—if you tried to tell the world what Camels have done
for you, you couldn’t find half enough glowing words in the
dictionary.

When you smoke Camels you get all the joy of Camels
remarkable blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic
tobaccos and you get Camels superb mellow mildness and
refreshing favor — the most appetizing, most satisfying you
ever puffed from any cigarette in the world at any price!

And, no matter how liberally you smoke, Camels never tire

A . . Camele are sold
visor it was decided that the team per- your taste! And, what’s more, they leave no unpleasant everywhere in scien-
sonnel arrangement for the forthcoming . ; tifically sealed pack-
debates is to be as follows: Trinity cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor! ages of 20 cigerettes
affirmative team against Richmond :

for 20 cents.
negative, at Richmond, March sth, and

Swarthmore negative at Swarthmore,
March 18th: H. E. Fisher (captain),
Samuel M. Holton, and Jay L. Jackson.
Trinity negative team against Richmond
affirmative, March sth, in Craven Me-
morial Hall: George D. Harmon (cap-
tain), Dwight Ware, and Claud Grigg;
Trinity negative team against Emory,
April 2d (tentative), John H. Small (cap-
tain), Henry Sprinkle, and Hugh Leffler.

Each of these teams will discuss the
same query, and definite announcements
as to the Harvard debate, the query and
dates for both the preliminary and the
final contests will be published as soon
as these arrangements are completed.—
Waltre W. Turrentine.

R, J. REYNOLDS
TOBACCO CO.

Winston-Salem, N. C.

