The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

i "SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

i icati t be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Articte® isay: Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

_---.-Editor-in-Chief

Je Ne RDS a Managing Editor
eS a _ As stant Managing Editor
, P. ORMOND. a a Assignment Editor
i Fa DOUBLES....------------ thletic Editor
ji’ McKEITHEN ---Alumni Editor
¥. © MeCASKILL---------- aanee Exchange Editor
ie OULWARE........-..- ..-Forum Editor
1h POUNLA aneenenenena --Campus Editor
b, W. ROBERTS. . M,C. A. Editor
By HI aaa .---Social Editor
ri GASTON, JR _--_-----.-esec-n-2cenennnnnneaeeene owen een Literary Editor

CLUB

Ogden, D. H.
Ormond, A. C.
Phillips, J. W.
Sprunt, J.
Summers, A. C.
Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C,

REPORTERS’
King, A. D.
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G
Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Lowrance, D. W.

Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.

Cooper, W. J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.
Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

lan

Busin‘ss Manager

C. J. MATTHEWS........--------------- ---------------------
E. A. NASH wenn ncnccnanaenecncenseesene------------.---Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

DEPARTMENT.
C. H. LONG eee ee eMENT: __Cireylation Manager
C. WOOL. ..-22---------22-n-o-n nn nen enn en nnn enn nn ene enn nne -Assistant Manager
J. Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

| EDITORIAL |

i zy inclinati Id expression of
Do not try to hide that lazy inclination under the o |
spring fever. *rhis is just a nice way of excusing yourself. Get to work

F it.
and forget about
All reports would indicate that our Wrestling Team gave a good ac-
count of itself considering the fact that they had not received any coach-
ing in this sport. We admire the gameness of the men who will tackle
teams who are under the care of professional instructors.

We are glad to learn that the aftermath of Junior Speaking was
much better than usual this year.

Do not forget that you are an active member of the Greater David-
son Club. Remember the goal for next year,

We are still in the nlarket for a holiday Raster Monday. Everybody
pull for this. ;

In a recent issue there was rua comment on the last issue of the
Magazine as being the “Mitchell Bush.” This should have appeared in
the Peanut Parcher, and not as a comment on this publication as ‘The
Davidsonian is not a “Kuockers Association.” No one can gainsay us
in the statement that the Magazine has made wonderful progress this

year.
THE PRESS ASSOCIATION CONTESTS.

HE North Carolina College Press Association recently formed at
Chapel Hill has laid special emphasis upon writing contests to be
held twice a year for magazine and newspaper publications. We

take this time to call to the attention of the students of Davidson that
this is an opportunity to serve their college ina way that will do much in
placing her name before the people of this State.

Space does not permit a detailed explanation of the tules of these

contests, only to say that any one working for either the Davidsonian or

the Magazine is eligible. The Magazine will be allowed three contest-

ants in short story, sketch, and verse respectively while this publication
will be allowed one, he to submit three articles; namely, feature story,
opinion, and straight news item. The reward to the winner will be a
full write-up of his college career in all the publications throughout the
State.

The editors of the Magazine and Davidsonian will be glad to assist
any mgn in entering these contests, and it is urged that many do so in
order for Davidson not to lag behind in a movement that is being en-
thusiastically received by the other, colleges of the State.

WHICH WAY SHALL IT BE?
‘HIS time of our school year marks an important period in the
] future of the various colleg2 activities on the Hill. By this we
mean that the middle of March sees the first student body elec-
tions of the leaders of the different 0 ganizations for the coming year,
and the choice of these men as to fitness for their special work is left to
the individual voters of our College.

It is easy enough to talk about voting for the best man, but when
it comes to actual practice, personal likes and dislikes, prejudices and
other things enter into such a degree it is difficult sometimes to cast
your ballot for the man whom you know to be the most capable. For
this reason we should be very careful in order that we may be fair not
only to ourselves, but to the candidates and our College.

The Y. M. C. A. and Davidsonian elections are to be conducted in a
day or so, and we would urge that in your choice of leaders for these
organizations that you be especially careful as to their ability and fit-
ness for the task that lies before them. Do not vote for a man just be-
cause he is your friend or a frat brother. Let your motives be higher
than this. Push aside any fraternity or non-fraternity spirit, personal
grudges and animosities. Rise above these so that the right man may
be selected for the right position, for only by so doing can we hope to

launch upon a successful year the organizations heretofore mentioned.
7

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

||__ Open Forum — |

WHO WILL TAKE CHARGE?

Lately we have been sending out dep-
jutations of students to present the cause
of missions to people out of college and
out of direct touch with this work. With-

'Davidson excellent advertisment while
presenting their own cause.

But, why would it not be well to
broaden out along this line and send out
deputations to present the cause of
Christian Education? There are strong
mmen in both the Junior and Senior
classes who would be glad to go to
the various city high schools and pre-
paratory schools throughout the state.
These men could address the Senior
classes of these schools, and have inter-
views with individual students, thus
picking out the men who will stizk at
Davidson and really be assets to the col-
lege. ;
| In some parts of this and neighboring
states Davidson is thought of only as a
school for training preachers. Buc they
miss the point and consequently there
are the parts of the country where we
fail to get men at all. Every year we
get “dead timber” that hang on for a
time and then drop out, leaving nothing
accomplished cither for themselves or
for the college. But by sending out stu-
dents to present Davidson to prospec-
tive college men we could eliminate
much of the dead timber at the start,
and give the men who will amount to
something their opportunity.

En Avant.

D:

R. 0. T. C. AREA INSPECTOR
VISITS DAVIDSON

| Especially Pleased With Work of
Advanced Class.

On Thursday, March toth, Col. Me-
Kinley inspected the Davidson R. O. T.
C. Unit. Colonel McKinley, who is sta-
tioned at Ft. McPherson, having charge
of all R. O. T. C. work in this corps
area is considered one of the best au-
thorities on junior military training in
our army. Though his inspection was
cuuducted along informal tines, from all
reports it made a favorable impression
upon him, While here, he looked over
the armory, rifle range, pistol range,
visited a class and viewed the drilling of
the various groups.

He considered the armory the best in
the area, the riflles being in excellent
condition and the equipment clean and
orderly. The rifle and pistol range he
also thought good, but mentioned the
fact that better results could be obtain-
ed if an inside gallery for use in winter
could be provided. While attending
Major Hearn’s advanced class he paid
the students a rare compliment saying,
“I don't believe I could do nearly as well
as you young men.” Major Hearn in-
troduced him to the members of the
class and according to the students the
Colonel is a splendid fellow. At drill
hour he watched the various classes at
work and while he made no official
statement as to how he would recom-
mend the battalion, it is evident that the
good work of men and officers was ap-
preciated.

Colonel McKintey expressed the wish
that one hundred men would enlist for
the summer camp at Oglethorpe so that
a Davidson company may be formed. He
commented favorably upon the spirit of
the men thinking, as did the previous
inspector, that it was the best he had
ever seen. Major Hearn has been work-
ing for a “Distinguished Rating” for
Davidson. As only four are awarded by
the War Department in thie-area, which
is composed of afi the southern states

sast of the Mississippi, it is an honor |:

worth working for. The official com-
munication from Colonel McKinley as
to the rating of the college is expected
soon,

Work for a better Unit at Davidson!
Dp——____

Prof. W. M. Pickens, of Salisbury High
School, and his five debaters, Fred
Burke, Robert Walker, Arnold Walser,
Jack Austin, and Samuel Tatum, spent
Saturday afternoon using the library in
Preparation for a debate against Con-
cord.

D——____.

Miss Mamie McElwee, of Statesville,
so pleasantly known to many of the
students, was one of last week's visitors.

_p__

Mrs. Fred J. Hay, of Kings Mountain,
N. C, is visiting her mother, Mrs. Lola
Johnston.

out a doubt these men are also giving

ah @
“s t

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

o>}

Lecture at Trinity.

Dr. Paul S. Reinsch, an authority on
political sciencé and at present employ-
ed as counsellor in Washington by the
Chinese government, has been secured
to deliver the first series of annual lec-
tures on “Citizenship” provided for by
an endowment lectureship in honor of
the late John McTyire Flowers. The
Jectures are-on March 29th, goth, and 31st.
Benjamin N. Duke, of New York and
Durham, provided the lecture series as
a memorial to the late Mr. Flowers sev-
eval years ago, but series by Dr. Reinsch
will mark their inauguration.

Trinity Chronical.

Junior Claes at Trinity Starts Plan for
Student Government.

Starting in a modest way one of the
most constructive movements that has
been set on foot in the college com-
munity in recont years, the Junior class
of Trinity College in a class meeting a
few days ago, launched the beginning of
a campaign for Student Government at
Trinity College. Every member of the
class realized the seriousness of the
movement that was being set on foot,
and opinion was given by various mem-
bers of the class in a serious manner.
The main point under discussion was the
best method of securing the beginnings
of a movement leading to the establish-
ment of Student Government.

—Trinity Chronicle.

We wonder why some of the college
politicians don’t adopt a platform of hot
water in the dormitories. There's no
doubt but that it would be a winning
plank in their platforms and we'd be
willing to throw our support in their
favor.

For Boys Only.
(Read backwards)—Didn’t you if girla
be wouldn't you, it réad would you knew:
we—The Georgetonian.

Coach Clay Trying to Perfect Bunting.

Coach Clay of Georgia Tech, claims a
new creation for the perfection of his
batting system. Between first and third
base he has a number of flags; around
hese fags small circles have been drawn.
The main idea is to be able to bunt the
ball, planting it in the correct ring. So
adept have some of the pill swatters
taken to this system that they close
their eyes and place the ball where they
want it. ,

A golf course around the infield—what
next ?—The. Technique.

~—_—_————

Southern Oratorical Contest Held at
Chapel Hill.

The annual contest of the Southern
Oratorical League was held at Chapel
Hill Friday night. There were repre-
sentatives from Johns Hopkins, the
Universities of Virginia, South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee,
Carolina, and the most of the prominent
colleges of the South—The Tar Heel.

OST men

economy in a good pipe. W

more. A special seasoning process makes the
briar bow! break in sweet and mellow.

Dr. Paul Reinsch Delivers Citizenship

North |

ee
WILDCAT WRESTLING TEAM

(Continued from page 1)
hold for over four minutes; by a quick
turn, winning in five minutes time.

In the 125 pound class Cromartie of
Davidson won great applause by bridg-
ing, but lost a decision to Cothran of
W. and L. after wrestling to a draw;
an extra six minutes deciding the match.
W. M. Davis of Davidson succumbed to
Southerland of W. and L. in the 135
pound class after four minutes and 45
seconds by a body hold and half-Nelson.

In the 145 pound class J. Schenck of
Davidson put up a good fight against
Hampton, W. and L.'s captain who won
a decision in one minute and 22 seconds.

Heizer of- Davidson won a decision
over Ogden thus making Davidson's
three points, in the 158 pound class.

In the 175 pound class, W. W. Carter of
| Pavigosn lost a fall to Asbury of W. and
L. by an arm lock, in two minutes and
30 seconds. .

Clark of Davidson lost a fall to Asbury
of W. and L. in the untimited class by a
body pin hold after two minutes and
45 seconds.

All of the Davidson men did very
credibly, considering their newness at
the game while, Asbury of W. and L.
accomplished the unusual in throwing
two opponents in succession in the same
evening.

V. M. I. Match.

Meeting a superior team both in train-
ing and in weight, the Wildcat wrestlers
were defeated by the grapplers of Vir-
ginia Military Institute in their gymna-
sium last Saturday night. The cadets
have been under the coaching of a pro-
fessional wrestler since tast November
and have had the experience of several
contests so far this season. Considering
the handicap they were under, the local
team put up a creditable fight against
their larger opponents. Each match was
interesting and a fight all the way thru.
All the Davidson men were thrown ex-
cept Cromartie, who defeated the V. M.
I. captain after a nine minute contest.

A summary of the contest is as fol-
lows:

115 pound class: Cummings, D. C., lost
to Venable, V. M. L, by a fall, body pin
hold, in three and one-half minutes.

125 pound class: Murrell, V. M. L, lost
to Cromartie, D. C., by decision in nine
minutes.

135 pound class Davis, W. M., D. C.,
lost to his opponent in nine minutes.

145 pound class: Parrott, V. M. L,
threw Schenck, D. C., in three and one-
half minutes.

158 pound class Heizer, D. C., was
thrown by Venable, S., V. M. L, in one
minute.

170 pound class: Carter, D. C., lost to
Venable, S.. V. M. I, in 14 minutes.

Heavyweight class: Clarke, D. C., was
thrown in two and one-half minutes.

Cromartie, the only successful David-
son entrant, was about evenly matched
with Murrell, the cadet captain, end won
by decision at the end of nine minutes
fast wrestling. Bill Davis put up a game ”
fight but the great strain was a little too
much and his system gave way at the
last minute causing him to lose the
match, In the 145 pound class, a good
match was staged between John Schenck
and Parrott of the cadets, the latter win-
ning. It was fast and interesting.

‘The most thrilling match of the con-
test was that in which “Nick” Carter
and Venable took part. Venable is the
best intercollegiate wrestler of his class

prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking,
There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and

DC Pipes give you this, and
genuine French

Pick a good shape

at your nearest dealer’s, at your price.

~

WORLD'S LaRGEST mA

Wem. DEMUTH. &_CO., NEW YORK

KERS OFCRINE PIPES
