THE DAVIDSONIAN,

APRIL 28, 1922.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Niches in the Wildcat
Hall of Fame

No. 4. George Millard King, '18.
D* Football D** Basketball D Track.

George King, of Bristol, Tenn., is one
of the few athletes who have won the
“Dp” in three branches of sport. George
played on the Wildcat’s left wing for
two years and captained the best grid
team which Davidson has ever turned
out; he played left forward for three
years in basketball; and in his senior
year he roamed around the hot corner
of the diamond.

In 1915 George won his “D.C.” and for
the next two years starred at left end.
He has the honor of being the only man
to cross Georgia Tech’s goal line during
the 1917 season. In the fourth quarter
of that memorable contest which the
Jackets finally won 32-10, George re-
ceived a 29-yard pass from Burns and
stepped off 25 yards to the goal line. His
defensive playing also puzzled the Tor-
nado and he threw Strupper for several

losses. The Washington Times, speak-
ing of his great work says: “King’s
work all season stamped him of All-

Southern material. Twenty-two years
cld he stands 5 fect 10 inches and weighs
150 pounds, Good at regular end work
King stands out-as a wonderful receiver
of forward passes, It was tltis skill that
enabled him to score against Georgia
Tech.” Along this same line George
scored a touchdown against V. P. I, V.
M. I, Auburn and -Clemson, with two
against Wake Forest, and four against
Wofford, Eleven touchdowns, ten via
forward pass route, is the ‘record which
he hung up for his successors to shoot
at.

In the: cage game King’s work was
nothing short of spectacular. His last
two seasons he ran his point total well
above the century mark and in one game
tossed in 15 field goals.

Although batting only .150 George
fielded like a big leaguer and hit in the
pinches. His three-ply swat in the Car-
olina game won an I1-inning pitchers’
battle for Dutch and his few hits came
at opportune times.

D.
ILL’S |
ALL U-LL

Attention! S.A. T. C.

Babe Ruth is one guy that’s sure of
getting a bonus, regardless of what Con-
gress does!

Wildcats!

Pat Crawford is still showing the way
to the other Wildcat timber-swingers.
The big Irishman has mauled out 20° hits
for a total of 31 bases, and has an aver-
age of .432. He also leads the regulars
in the field with an average of .987.

Queens!

It’s rumored that some of the’ ex-
pensive sex from the Queen City are
coming up Saturday with the avowed
intention of taming some Wildcats.
Hold ’em, gang!

Wildcats!

Coach Grey’s squad dropped another
meet last Saturday but we're willing to
bet our dormitory toothbrush that some-
one will have to step lively to head them
in the State meet on the 5th of May.

Wildcats!

Carolina managed to get a tie in foot-
ball last fall, to avoid Coach Dutch’s
Poison Squad in basketball, and to luck
a 2-0 win in baseball. But it’s a long
road that has no turning and the detour
signs point toward Winston-Salem for
Friday. The city made famous by Prince
Albert, Salem College, Carolina-David-
son games, and Gig Shepherd, should see
a display that would make Ann Penning-
ton singing jazz music, Babe Ruth hit-
ting home runs, Man o’War making a
driving finish, and the Six Brown Broth-
ers tickling the saxophones look look
like a side-show in the “Mighty Hoag.”
T).

<=

Another pleasing honor that has re-
cently come to. Dr. Thos. W. Lingle is a
“Victory Medal” received from France,
sent by the Minister of War of that
country.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
NAMES SHEPHERD PRESIDENT

The election of officers for the Atheltic
Association for 1922-23 was held Tues-
day, April 18th, W. S. Shepherd, G. B.
Sorrells, and G. W. Mauze were nomi-
nated for the presidency. Two ballots
were necessary and Shepherd was elec-
ted as the next president.

For vice-president, M. A. McBryde, M.
D. Field and C. M. Davis were nominated,
Field received the majority of the votes.
T. H. Koenig was elected secretary and
treasurer. Those nominated were Beall,
Koenig and Austin.

The out-going officers, under the lgad-
ership of McFadden, have managed the
affairs of the association in a very
capable and successful manner, and it is
certain that it is under excellent direc-
tion for the coming year, and that the
new officers will carry on the work with
the greatest earnestness and success.

D. ;
GEORGE MAUZE ELECTED TO
CAPTAIN 1923 BASKETEERS

At a recent meeting of the basketball
letter men George Mauze was elected
captain of the Wildcat five for the com-
ing season. A more fortunate selection
could not have been made for “War-
hoss” combines a winning personality
with that old fighting spirit that carries
a team on to victory.

From the time he entered college
Mauze’s name has been connected with

scasons he was the life of his class team
and last year by a. never-say-die spirit

‘led the Juniors to victory in the class

scries. From class to varsity was now

the season of '22 found him at the pivot
position on Coach Hengevéldt’s* “poison
squad,”

Here his fighting spirit was more in
evidence than ever and old “Warhoss”
could always be-heard urging the team
to fight and then fight some more. At
center he could always be counted on to
gct the Wildcat’s plays off in fine order
and his shooting was nothing short of
phenomenal. During the past season he
rang up a total of 146 points, more than
the forwards combined. Mauze received
no more than he deserved when he was
selected center on the All-State crew of
1022, Great things are expected of “War-
hoss” next year.

D
PLANS FOR FIELD DAY ARE

Large preparations are fast being
completed for the Field Day events
which are to take place here Saturday.
More than a hundred men from the va-
rious classes are getting themselves in
trim for the races, broad and high jump,
pole vault, discus, shot put, javelin
throw and other events. The number of
inen who are participating and the won-
derful spirit that they are putting into
the work shows that each class is’ con-
fident of winning first place in more than
one event. y

An invitation has been extended the
girls of Queens College, asking them to
enjoy the exercises of the day. If the
invitation is accepted, it will add a great
deal in making the day a large success,
and put much more “fire” into the oc-
casion, :

A few years ago Field Day was the
most
year at Davidson. At that time there was
no team selected in track to represent
the college in intercollegiate meets. After
teams were selected, Field Day dwindled
down, but recently it has crept back in-
to existence. It is earnestly desired to
make it all that it used to be and more.

T).

Movable schools for the children of
migratory laborers in the San Joaquin
Valley of California are conducted by
the State Board of Education. The
schools move from place to place with
the laborers as these keep up with the
harvest, :

D

“A college cannot make brains; it
merely trains them. It usually:makes a
mart man smarter, and a fool a bigger

fool.”

PRACTICALLY COMPLETED |

important athletic event of the}

| ANALYSIS OF YESTERDAY’S
RED AND BLUE CONTEST

|

| (Continued from page 1)
|close of the fighting; the Red forces |

LITERARY NEWS

‘were beating a strategic retreat; the |

| yor 1 | ip * * * * * * *

| Blue forces were organizing the newly le QUERY FOR DEBATE x

/ occupied terrain. Rs ha nh pr ;
Before any attempt is made to point) AY 4, 1922.

Resolved, that the principle involv- *
* ed in the Kansas law for the settle- *
* ment of industrial disputes should *
* be enacted into law by the United *

}cut the lost opportunities and mistakes |
| of yesterday, it might be well to sketch |
| the course of the several units engaged |

in the fighting (see map). i

“C” Brigade, under McIlwaine, operat- '* States Government. =f
‘ | * * * * * * * *
jing as the Blue left, advanced from their |
| positions south of the Concord Road in} D.
ja general northeastrly direction to at-| WAKE FOREST WINNER STATE

| tack the Red center and right. Passing} PEACE ORATORICAL CONTEST

lover the crest along the Grey’s Farm | pares alo

Road, they came under a withering ma-! Elon, Trinity, Davidson, Guilford, Car-
|chine gun fire and were roughly han- | olina, Others Listed by Judges.

| dled. However, by dint of hard fighting | patron en

they managed to cross Hoyt’s Creek and) -On Friday evening the 2'st of April, in
jadvance some distance up the farther/ihe Municipal Theatre at Burlington,
slope ere night fell. I Mr. J. S. Thomas, of Wake Forest was
| “B” Brigade, under Lowry, operating | awarded first place in the State Peace
las the Blue right, likewise advanced | Oratorical Contest, and with it the $75
| from positions south of Concord Road first place prize. Mr. R. O. Smith,’ of
and east of the positions occupied by | Elon secured second place and the $50
\“C.” “B” advanced against the Red cen-| prize, and Mr. N M., West, of Trinity
lter and left. Advancing through the) third place and the $25 prize.

wooded areas to the north of Concord — Payidson, represented by Arnett Gam-
Road in a general northeasterly direction | Je was awarded fourth place and Gam-
they emerged therefrom to encounter a; ble received 12 pairs of socks and three
deadly machine gun,fire from the Red) ties, Mr. Thomas English, of. Guilford,
left. After severe losses they gained | received six pairs of socks and three ties
the crest just north of the Grey’s, Farm! a¢ the fifth place prize and Mr. B. C.
| Road and, passing over it, were subject-| Brown, of Carolina received a dictionary
ied to a still heavier fire from almost the) as the sixth place prize. N. C. State's
entire Red line. Advancing with fixed | representative did not, arrive. The fourth,
bayonets, they crossed Hoyt’s Creek and) fifth, and sixth place awards were
| penetrated the woods just north of that | courtesies of manufacturing and other
| stream. {concerns of Burlington.

| “D” Brigade, under Miller, was held) The winning speech was “Racial As-

|in reserve by Phillips. Advancing from | pects of the Peace Problem.” Mr.

basketball, class and varsity. For three! south of Concord Road and from posi- | Thomas, a member of the Wake Forest |
H

' tions approximately in rear of “B,” it Glee Club, has a deep mellow voice and
advanced in a northeasterly direction | Gjear enunciation, advantages which in
| through the eastern edge of the wooded | the minds of the judges the other speak-
area that lies north of Concord Road | ors were unable to overcome. Mr.

hut a short step for the big center and} and south of Hamilton Creck. They | Smith, of Elon, spoke on “World Har-|

| were kept beyond the range of the en-/mony” and Mr. West, of Trinity, on
|emy’s observation, Late in the after-| “National Seclusion vs. International
| noon, debauching from the woods south-| Co-operation.” . The manuscripts of the
jeast of the junction of Hamilton Creck! fst and second place men will be sent
| with Hoyt's Creek, they attacked the!in for the national contest, in which
| Red left on the flank and rolled it back | the
| before them. |

The Red forces all retired in a north- |
| westerly direction to a line prepared in |
advance. The extent of their retire- |
ment is at yet unknown, Apparently it |
| was: carried out in excellent order. |
| In discussing the mistakes made in
| yesterday's fighting, let us remember )
| two things: (1) The Red commanders |
are not mentioned because of the fact
lthat accurate information as to the Red
movements has so far been unattainable.
| (2) It is easy to find mistakes after it
is all over—when one sits back at home
in a swivel chair far from the rush and
turmoil of the actual fighting. Today we
will discuss five major errors.

(1) “C” Brigade having advanced over
the Grey’s Farm Road crest encountered
such heavy fire that it was unable to
advance. It was held midway down the
slope, no attempt being made to advance
to the protection of the low bushes
along Hoyt’s Creek or to withdraw—back
of the crest.

(2) “B” Brigade advanced from the
woods just south of Hamilton Creek in
the open territory north of that stream
in such formation as to offer a most ex-
cellent target to the enemy. In conse-
quence of this they suffered severe

re is a prize of $50 offered.

The
THOMPSON
SHOE

Will last as long as your soul

BUILLE & McLEOD, Agts.

MILLS SHOE STORE

STATESVILLE, N. C.

matter who made it---come here.

better.

work,

select your spring clothes.

TATE-BROWN CO.

os
|

The judges were two ministers, two
real-estate men, and one lady, all of
Burlington. The speakers were name-
less orators until the contest was’ over,
afl being announced by number and sub-
ject until the awards were made.

The speakers were beautifully enter-
tained. The hospitality of the Burling-
ton people was splendid and the contest
will probably be held there again next
year.

. D
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

CLUB ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

The meeting of the International Rela-
tions Club on Tuesday night, April 18th,
was given over to the election of officers,
a feed, and the speeches of appreciation
by the officers-elect.

As soon as the members had assem-
bled in Dr. Sentelle’s class room, J. R.
Jones, the retiring secretary, passed
around apples, eskimo pies, sandwiches
and smokes. These refreshments being
disposed of, A. C. Summers called the
meeting to order and the election of
officers, the main purpose of the meet-
ing, was disposed of. H. K. Russell was
elected president, W. H. Sharpe, vice-
president, and J. H. Davis, secretary.
Each one of the newly elected officers
humbly expressed appreciation for the
honors bestowed upon them. . After
some discussion on a pin for the mem-
bers anda more elaborate initiation
ceremony the club adjourned.

We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are
In the cut of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat
the hang of the trousers, also the difference between hand tailoring and machine

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to

|

COLLAR |

FOR SPRING
l Cluett, Peabody & Co, Inc. |}

ARARRARARAARARARARARAARARARRULARRARALPERRARARRERM

oe
New Spring Clothes for College Men

If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no

ARRAN ARHE

Charlotte, N. C.

RARKRKARARARKRRRRKAE

|

|losses. It would seem that they should
have emerged from the wooded area: in
question nearer its western extremities
and then in a more extended formation.
Such an egress would have placed them
well under the protection of the Grey’s
Farm Road crest.

| (3) “D” Brigade having advanced over
the Grey’s Farm Road crest, was held
on the forward slope in the face of a
galling fire from which they lost heav-
ily. It would seem that they should
have been held in rear of the crest un-

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods.
& Ditson goods.

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

| SPORTING GOODS‘

We sell the Spalding, Reacheand Wright
We have the exclusive*tency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

A. L. Fael, Mgr.

Phone 902

til the enemy’s strength had been’ ascer-
tained or else should have been return-
ed there, the strength of his fire having
been ascertained.

(4) In the general advance the Blue
commander lost contact with his wings
—for long periods of time he did not
krow what his right and left were do-
ing. This was due to the haste with
which the wings moved to the attack.
It would seem that the advance should

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, Presideat
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President

have been halted—a very short time
would have sufficed—just south of the
Grey’s Farm Road and under the pro-
(Continued on page 6)

.

C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
CAPITAL, SURPLUS.

(Cer ce cyt {

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ETC. OVER $1.000,000.00

pao geeeeeeese te

NONE TOO LARGE

A..T. SUMMEY, Cashier .
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEET! » Assistant Cashier

CCC LCL CL CCL CCL
