THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

WILDCATS TRAVEL AREIAL ROUTE
(Continued from page 1)

doing some extra fine kicking. In the Blue

and White line, Captain Poindexter proved

to be the mainstay. He is big and is a hard

worker, many Wildcat plays coming to grief

_ because of him,

Davidson had one other good chance to
score, In the third quarter they got tne
ball on ‘their 41-yard line and by using
straight football entirely they carried the
oval to Carolina’s 17-yard line. But the
Blue and White stiffened their Getense a
the ball went over on downs.

FIRST QUARTER

Carolina won the toss and elected to re-
‘ceive, Davidson defending the west goal.
Shepherd kicked off 25 yards to Cochran who
attempted to pass the ball to a man behind
him. Spratt Moore intercepted the pass and
carried the ball to Carolina’s 35-yard line.
Shepherd made four yards in two plunges
at left tackle, but Poindexter stopped Meore
in a third attempt at the spot. Hendrix
then attempted a pass but it was grounded.

+

+

Leadership —

CHERO-COLA
‘GRAPE-MELO
ORANGE-MELO

ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, theFlorist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum

Norton Bros.

bers
Next to Postoffice

CThe Raleigh

221 West Trade Street

Charlotte's
Best Cafe

After Every

Carolina's ball on her 29-yard line. «. Merritt
hit right guard for three yards and McDon-
old added five through the same position.
Merritt ploughed center for six yards and
first down. McMasters stopped McGee, but
Johnson went through left tackle for an-
other first down. On a lateral pass Johnson
circled right end for four yards. Merritt
made six yards and first down in two tries at
center. Faison stopped Johnson at right end
but Davidson. was offside giving Carolina
first on the 30-yard line. Davis stopped
Johnson without a gain and Carolina was
penalized 15 yards for holding. + Johnson
made 20 yards when his interférence tackled
Faison, but. the ball was brought back to
Carolina's 43-yard line. McDonald made
five yards at left tackle. A pass, McDonald
to Motris, was grounded. McDonald punted
out of bounds on Davidson's 10-yard line.
Shepherd replied with a 50-yard punt to mid-
field. Carolina’s ball on 50-yard line. McGee
plunged through right tackle for nine yards
and Merritt made it first down with four at
center. Carolina was penalized five yards
for offside, but MeGee got it back by a
smash at right tackle. Merritt ticked off 10
yards and first down around right end and
added nine at center. McGee made five and
first down at center. Carolina's ball on 11-
yard line, Cox substituted for Clark. Faison
broke through and stopped Johnson without
a gain.’ ‘Time for Carolina, Johnson drove
off left tackle for 10 yards and first down.
On the next play Merritt hurdled the line
for the remaining yard and a touchdown,
Blount place-kicked goal. Carolina, 7; Da-
vidson, 0,

Shepherd kicked off 45 yards to Johnson
who returned 30 to the 43-yard line. Quar-
ter up. Carolina, 7; Davidson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER

Carolina’s ball on her 43-yard line. Me-
Gee made four yards over right guard be-
fore Cox stopped him. MeDonald skirted
left end for 12 yards and first down. Sorrells
stopped McGee at left guard, but Merritt
went around right end for five yards. On
the next play Merritt was caught holding
and Carolina was penalized to her 45-yard
line. A pass, MeDonald to Cochran, was
grounded and McDonald punted to Hendrix
on the six-yard line. The speedy quarter
returned the pigskin 23 yards to his own 29-
yard line. Shepherd and Moore made a first
down in two drives off left tackle. ~ Davidson
fumbled but recovered. Shepherd made
three yards in two attempts at left ‘tackle.
Shepherd punted but McIver was holding.

On his second attempt Shepherd punted out] a

of bounds on Carolina's 33-yard line. On a
lateral pass Johnson carried the pigskin 23
yards to Davidson's 44-yard line. First
down. Merritt made four at left end but a
pass, McDonald to Morris, lost a yard. Me-
Gee made three at center and Merritt two
at right tackle. Davidson's ball on her sw-
yard line. Shepherd made two yards on a
sweeping end run, Carolina penalized 15
yards for holding, giving Davidson the ball
on Carolina's 47-yard line and first down.
Hunt made two at right tackle, but a pass,

Hendrix to Davis, failed to gain, David-
son penalized 15 yards for holding, <A pass,
Shepherd to Davis, failed by inches. Shep-

herd punted out of bounds on Carolina’s 35-
yard line. McGee trickled around right end
for 26 yards and a first down. Long was
substituted for Cox. Johnson made four
yards at left end before McGee took another
28-yard trip around Davidson's left flank.
Time for Davidson. Merritt was stopped
without a gain at center by Brice. Mallory
went in for Nappy Davis. Johnson failed
to gain around Faison’s end. McGee went
over left end for a touchdown. Blount fail-

ed to place-kick goal. Carolina, 13; David-
son, 0.
Sparrow went in for McGee. Johnson

kicked off 40 yards to Hendrix who returned
10 yards to his 30-yard line. Hunt went out
of bounds but failed to gain at right end.
Shepherd shot a pass to Moore for-an 18-
yard gain. First down, A pass, Hendrix to
Hunt, was grounded. Shepherd and Hendrix
gained two yards on a pass. Merritt inter-
cepted one of Hendrix's passes on his 43-
yard line. Time out Carolina. A forward
pass, Merritt to Cochran, made 18 yards and
first down.. McDonald and Morris then
worked a pass for 10 yards, placing the ball
on Davidson's 23-yard line. Time out, Caro-
lina. Carolina penalized two yards for too
much time out. Sparrow dropped Wack to
his 38-yard line and booted a field goal.
Carolina, 16; Davidson, 0

Johnson kicked off 55 yards to Hunt who
returned 13 yards to his 18-yard line. Half
up. Carolina, 16; Davidson, 0.

SECOND HALF

Shepherd kicked off 50 yards to. Johnson
who ran the ball back to his 35-yard mark.
Randolph® plowed through center for 12
yards and a first down.
15 yards for holding. Johnson attempted an
end run but Carolina was again penalized 15
yards for holding. Merritt made five yards

around left end. Renee hit sibs mcle aie

ee ACs SOT Die eaten, te

Carolina penalized | }

for two yards. Sparrow punted out of
bounds on Davidson's 41-yard line. Moore
and Shepherd made first down in two smashes
at the right side of the line. Moore hit
right tackle for three yards and Shepherd
followed him at the same place with six.
Hunt made six and first down through left
tackle. Shepherd hit tackle twice and made
seven yards. Hunt added another first down.

Yavidson'’s ball on Carolina’s 21-yard line.
Time out for Carolina, Shepherd, Hunt and
Moore each tried to smash the line but their
efforts made only four yards. Moore at-
tempted a forward pass but it was grounded.
Ball goes over on 17-yard line. Randolph
made three at center. Merritt added five at
left tackle and Randolph made it first down
with six through right tackle. McDonald
attempted an end run but Carolina was pen-
aliezd 15 yards for holding. Carolina was
then penalized five yards for offside, ball on
ll-yard line. Bomar made three at left end
but Randolph failed at center. Sparrow
punted out of bounds on Davidson's 46-yard
line, ‘Time out for Davidson. Moore lost
five yards at right end and Randolph inter-
cepted a pass on Davidson's 48-yard line.
Bomar made five at right tackle, Merritt and
Randolph made seven and first down at cen-
ter. Sparrow smashed letf tackle for 12
yards and first down. Merritt plugged left
tackle for three, Randolph hit right tackle
for one and Merritt added five at the same
Bomar made first down with three at
center. Ball on 12-yard line. Merritt made
six yards in two tries at the line, Sparrow
found an opening for two at center and Ran-
dolph plunged through center for four yards
and a touchdown. Sparrow drop-kicked
goal. Carolina, 23; Davidson, 0.

Sparrow kicked off 50 yards to Moore,
who returned 15 yards to the 25-yard line.
Quarter up. Carolina, 23; Davidson, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER

Shepherd went through tackle for six
yards and Tlunt added one. Shepherd failed
at right end and punted to Sparrow on Caro-
lina’s 30-yard line, Sparrow returned 12
yards, Randolph, Bomar and Merritt could
make but four yards at center but Sparrow
punted out of bounds on Davidson's 29-yard
line. Moore made one at center, but Shep-
herd lost two at left tackle. Hendrix got
off a fine pass to Davis, gaining 32 yards and
putting the ball on Carolina’s 35-yard line.
Hendrix and Moore failed at passing, but
Faison nabbed one for 12 yards and another
first down, Hendrix and Moore again failed
but Nappy grabbed one of Jim’s tosses for
23-yard gain ad a touchdown,
drop-kick was blocked.
vidson, 6.

Shepherd kicked off 45 yards to Bomar
who returnéd to his 29-yard line. ‘Tenney
hit left tackle for two. Sparrow contributed
four and Bomar added one. Sparrow punted
50 yards to Hendrix who returned to his 31-
yard line. Melver intercepted a pass thrown
by Hendrix on Davidson’s 41-yard line. A
pass, Sparrow to ‘Tenney, gained one yard.
Carolina penalized 15 yards for-holding. A
pass was grounded and Sparrow punted to
Hendrix on the cight-yard line. Bomar made
a first down in two tries at the line. Bomar
made three through left tackle. A pass was
grounded but another, Sparrow to Shepherd
gained 19, Ball on Davidson's 11-yard line.
Tenney made four at left tackle. Sparrow
added two at the same place. ‘Tenney again
plugged left tackle for two. Sparrow hit
center for two yards, giving the ‘lar Heels
a lirst down by a scant three inches. Tenney
rammed his way through center for a
touchdown, Sparrow failed to drop-kick
goal. Carolina, 29; Davidson, 6.

Sparrow kicked off over the goal line.
Davidson’s ball on 20-yard line. Shepherd’s
pass to Faison was grounded and another
Waseintercepted by Whitley on Davidson’s
36-yard line. Sparrow’s first two passes
Were grounded and Shepherd intercepted his
third attempt on Davidson’s 30-yard line.
Hendrix's pass to Davis was intercepted by
Shepherd, Sparrow punted over the goal
line. Davidson's ball on her 20-yard line.
Hendrix threw two passes but they were
grounded, Time up. Carolina, 29; David-

spot.

Moore's
Carolina, 23; Da-

son, 6,

N. C, (29) DAVIDSON (6)
RO MOPHS  crisd.5 sins etatredenn ooh ae Faison
Left End
Matte wsiii:, von sean na ns McMaster
Left Tackle
Pritchard sis: ss: aeeoetieeny.« S. Davis
Left Guard
Blouintss:.stirsscrs sath eres ota aia Brice
Center
Poindexter. cect eee Sorrells
Right Guard
Mol veriicisia Aiken decelnan Gann Clarke
Right Tackle
Cochtant = i500: cepeteitees to C. M. Davis

Right End
MecDoniald: s:...;cevegp aces sebsntag Hendrix
Quarterback
Merritt ........ cxanaiieteniis's ie Shepherd
Left Half

THE: BANKS:
“Prices you carn afford to pay”

Gentlemen:

I'm not as young as I used to be
and I did not get a chance at the Army
in the last war but from what I've heard
O.D. breeches with spiral leggins are
a pretty scratchy proposition= or as
Tommy might say "Deucedly uncomfortable."

And so it occurred to me that you
ought to get one of our 0.D. trousers
for your R.0.T.C. classes and class

drills.

Likewise, they are regulation -
master surplus, it fact.

They are much more comfortable.

quarter-
The price is

very moderate, only $2.75.

And to complete your uniform you
will want a pair of good stout Munson

last shoes.

We have them from Hermann,

one of the best makers in the country...

Yours for Comfort,
Mr. Fidler,

Furnishings
Right Hole
McGee jimisecsscurauee cree: OCG Moore
Fullback
Score by periods: A C A D E M Y
North Carolina ............ 79 7 6—2
IDET ESNet: pouuauaoougdObUG 0 0 0 6—6
Bron
North Carolina scoring: | ‘Touchdowns,
Merritt, McGee, Randolph (substitute for

Johnson), Tenney (substitute for Randolph).
Points from touchdown, Blount and Spar-
row (substitute for McGee), one out of two
attempts each, using drop kicks; field goal,
Sparrow. Davidson scoring: ‘Touchdown,
C. M. Davis. Referee, Sampson (St. Al-
bans), Umpire, Perry (Sewannce). Head-
linesman, Izzard (Washington and Lee).
‘Time of periods, 15 minutes each.

——D

ROARING EXTRAVAGANZA
(Continued from Page 1)

Elkins, W. H. Crane,-E. A. West, L. B.
Finn, :
Nubian Slaves—W. S$. Buchanan, J. M.
Adams. :

Khediva, master of the revels....S. C. Fain
Sttitan of Sarawak ......s4y 5: O. J. Allison
atid eerie an ie eRe enT J. B. Bryan
Alvan Chi oraeteGi ie T. L. Fraser

Interlocuter Gettys Guille
Accompanist , F. Northrop

This stupednous show of minstrelsy will be
the crowning event of Senior Week, and
will treminate the gay celebration.

The Senior class is keeping the campus
completely in the dark as to other plans for
the week, but give assurance that the ’23
Senior Week will be unparalleled, unpreced-
ented and never to be forgotten.

ORE MUSCLES

Vacations are often
spoiled by soreness re-
sulting from outdoor
games. A good massage
with Vicks often gives
urprising relief,

VISKS |-

»

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly — q

VAUDEVILLE

CLAUDE LEE, Manager
Thursday 23rd =“ Friday ‘24th
Sauurdey 25th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director

Overture—"Three Dances From

Hey Vill’

PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA

Selection—‘‘Bombo”

Fox- gles ‘The prank Trot"

RAY G. HULING
Presents “The Clown Seal”
A Comedian From the Sea—The
Most Wonderful Trained Animal in
Captivity.

COFFMAN AND CARROL
In “Two Tones of Brown”

A Funny Blackface Act

“THE THREE RUBES”
(Bowers, Walter & Crocker)

Indescribably Funny

JOHNNY ECKERT AND
AL HARRISON

A Wireless Comedy

“Another Message”

. THE FOUR MADCAPS
Excellent Singing and Dancing
Gabe td Act

Make Your Seat Reservations Now

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
~ PIANOS

Parker-Gardner Co.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT

“16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

