THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

CAPTAIN McBRIDE

Davidson College is grieved to hear of the
death of an alumnus who has always held
his Alma Mater dear to him even though it
was some 64 years ago that he bade her doors
goodbye. Captain Malcolm H. McBride,
aged 88 years, is the person whose many
friends join with his Alma Mater to mourn
his death.

Captain McBride has always .ranked high

among his fellowmen as he did in college.
As captain of the “Scotch Boys” he was
known to have the best drilled company in
his regiment during the war. He was the
inventor of the popular McBride Cotton
Press, which has met with appreciative favor
throughout the South.

Having spent a great deal of his life in
this section of the country, Captain McBride

and Scotland counties, and aiso possessed a
number of governmental securities, ranking
him as one of the wealthiest men in the
county.

Captain McBride never married, but he
has a large and prominent family connection
in Scotland, Hoke, Robeson and Cumberland
counties, who have Davidson’s sincere feel-
ing of sympathy at the death of one so dear.
As a member of the Laurinburg Presby-
terian Church he did a God-blessed work in
charitable circles.

D-—

has accumulated a wealth of land in Robeson

Now is the time to subscribe.

VIEW OF CHAMBERS BUILDING
To be restored as a part of Greater Davidson

Which Type of Research
is of Greatest Value?

A stove burns too much coal. A man familiar with the princi-
ples of combustion and heat radiation makes experiments which
indicate desirable changes in design. That is research.

You want to make a ruby in a factory, a real ruby, indistin-
guishable by any test from the natural stone. You begin by
analyzing rubies chemically and physically. Then you,;make
rubies just as nature did. Your rubies are the result of research
—another type of research.

While melting up your chemicals and experimenting with high
temperatures, you begin to wonder how hot the earth must
have been millions of years ago, and what were the forces at play
that made this planet what it is. Your investigation leads you
far from rubies and causes you to formulate theories to explain
how the earth, how the whole solar system was created. That
would be research of a still different type.

Research of all three types is conducted in the laboratories of
the General Electric Company. But it is the third type—pio-
neesing into the unknown—that means most in the long run,
even though undertaken with no practical benefit: in view.

For example, the Research Laboratories of the General Elec-
tric Company are exploring matter with X-rays in order to dis-
cover not only how the atoms in different substances are
arranged but how the atoms themselves are built up. The more
you know about a substance, the more you can do with it.
This work may enable scientists to answer more definitely the
question: Why is iron magnetic? Then the electrical industry
will take a greater step forward than can be made in a century
of experimenting with existing electrical apparatus.

You can add wings and stories to an old house. But to build a
new house, you must ‘begin with the foundation.

General@Electric
omcee Company s--«.x:.

CLASS '22 GATHER AT
MONTREAT FOR REUNION

Montreat was made happy on. August 17
by the assembling of members of the class
of ‘22 for their first reunion. The evening
was rendered ideal by a sumptuous banquet
at the Montreat Hotel. The class was called
to order by President McGukin and Walter
Knox was chosen toastmaster. It is need-
less to say that there were some tate toasts

given. Also, plans were discussed of in-
terest to Davidsonians, and especially to
alumni.

Roll call showed the following present:
E. B. McGukin, R. Bitzer, W. I. Knox, J. I)
Knight, T. M. Lowry, P. D Miller, P. H.4

| McAlpine, D. P. McGeachy, R. R. Mcll-

waine, T. H. Patterson, J. M. Richards, J.
Sprunt, L. L. Wilkinson, J. C. Wool.
\ After a most enjoyable evening the mect-
ing drew to a close with songs of the class
and Alma Mater.

Regrets are hereby extended to those
members of the class who were unable to be
present.

D.
HERE AND THERE

J. M. Moore, '91, former president of
Mitchell College, is now assisting in the
$000,000 campaign for Davidson,

Rev. N. I’. Walker, '92, pastor of the First
Baptist Church at Danville, Ky.,  dis-
tinguished himself this summer by diving in
with all his clothes on, to rescue a drowning
hoy.

“Johnnie” Richards,
in Marion, S$, C.

’20, is keeping books

Dr. J. D. McDowell,
physician of York, S. C.,
at Blowing Rock.

04, a practicing
spent the summer

Kelly Walks In

A news item from Louisville, Ky., con-
tains the following item: “Among the new
men in Louisville Seminary is Mr. Kelly G.
Tucker, who walked from Boston to Louis-

/

fie

Make
November

18th

Another

Sapecccccccccccccacecccessscsceccccsscscocecesscececcos:

Davidson

Day

in

CHARLOTTE

Look Out

| —

jeovccocaccccsoseseseccscoscs
sc ccccsecsssessecscesesececccccccccs

ville to take courses in the Seminary and ] 7
University of Louisville. Mr, Tucker is 22 A W d
years old; his home is in Waco, ‘Texas, and gents ante
he has been in the East engaged in social To Represent
service work, Capt. Chas, F, Huhlein, chair- M chusetts Bonding and
man of the Board of Public Safety (ours) Insurance Com rtd
of Louisville, expressed his admiration of | Oc Accid ae y
Mr. Tucker and has welcomed him officially can “C ent an uaranty
to the city.” Mr. Tucker is well remem- ompany
hered on the campus and it is sincerely re- W. E. PRICE
gretted by the students who know him that General Agent
he is not to be with us this year to finish
with the class of '23. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
a |
ARTIFICIALLY BLEACHED
AN NOSOCA
eat Ree reeee
a |
Courteous Regards
For
the Needs of Every Customer
v

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

On the Square CHARLOTTE, N. C.
&

weather.

Not all athletic events scheduled can be played, but
the anticipated income can be guaranteed by

RAIN INSURANCE

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

SL NAY I ONES CP YS

i a
A dry season is always followed by a period of wet

