“ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS

DEBATE QUERY FOR MCH. 30.

Resolved, That the closed shop
in industry is justifiable.
Query for April 6th.
Resolved, That the bonus bill re-
cently passed by the House of Rep-
resentatives should be passed by
the Senate. ‘

SEVERAL BOOKS OF FICTION
ADDED TO LIBRARY SHELVES

During the last few days several new
books have been added to the library.
The majority of them are fiction, dealing
with the modern problems of every-day
life. Among these we find “The Man
in Gray,” by Thomas Dixon, a novel of
the South and of Robert E. Lee; “The
Empty Sack,” by Basil King, a dramatic
story of love and business; “The Wasted
Generation,” by Owen HEGEae and “If
Winter Comes,” by A. M. S. Hutchinson,
dealing with familiar probleme of mod-
ern times.

.D.

PLANS FOR WAKE FOREST
DEBATE NEARLY COMPLETE

The preparations for the Davidson-
Wake Forest debate are nearing com-
pletion. The debate is to be held on
April 7 at eight p. m., in the auditorium
of Queens College, in Charlotte.

The Davidson team, composed of Ed-
gar Houghton and J. C. Bailey, with Ar-
nett Gamble as alternate and manager,
is.to be opposed by L. E. Anderson and
A. L. Goodrich, with W. Bryan Booe as
alternate and manager.

The judges are to be chosen from a
list of men proposed by Davidson and
approved by Wake Forest. The man-
agers have already secured three judges
and two others will be settled upon in
the near future.

Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens,
has been secured to preside. Queens
girls have consented to be the marshals
of the occasion.

The subject for debate is one of vital
interest to the United States at the
present time: Resolved, That the Fed-
cral Government should own and oper-
ate the coal mines of the United States,
constitutionality waived.

D.
PHI SOCIETY STAGES MOCK

COLORED JUNIOR SPEAKING

The Phi Society on last Thursday
evening had a most unusual and interest-
ing program, The program was full of
“pep” and life from start to finish. Every
minute was full of new thrills and out-
bursts of applause were frequent. The
special program of the evening was “Ju-
nior Speaking of Biddle University.”

Biddle University wanting to have Ju-
nior speaking this year on the “Hill, ue
made application for the use of the so-
ciety hall for this elaborate occasion.
The question was put before the society
fcr action and after many speeches pro
and con it was decided to turn over the
hall to the speakers.

Doctor Biddle (Archie Freeman) offi-
cieted. .He thanked the members for
the kindness that had been shown them.
He expressed his sincere good pleasure
in having his students address such an
intelligent audience. After a few other
preliminary remarks. of gratitude, Doc-
tor Biddle introduced the first speaker of
the evening, Josiah Enoch Jeremiah (H.
K. Russell). The subject of Jeremiah
was “Evolution,” He went way back be-
fore Darwin in his hypothese and the-
cries. He proved without a doubt that
“man did spring from the monkey.”

The second speaker of the evening was
Rufus Blackman (W. P. Brown). His
speech was a little out of the ordinary,
even rivaling Shakespeare in literary
attainments.

Jeremiah Isaac Knight (J. I. Knight)
was the third speaker of the evening
Knight was a very appropriate name,
because no night was ever darker than
this speaker. “Woman and the great un-
known” was his subject. She was ana-
lyzed from A to Z in his speech. The
primary point he attempted to make
was—get a woman and stick to her thru
thick and thin. ce

tat

| stitution should be made by a two-thirds

Joseph Benjamin Abraham (A. V. Gib-
son) was the last speaker of the even-
ing. “The Stage Shall Be Reformed”
was his subject. There were two points

» Abraham’s speech that were of spe-|
cial interest: (1) The necessity of square |
dealing with the farmer; (2) Square deal-
ing with the labor in the labor question |
today.

Thus ended Junior Speaking of Biddle |
University which was a great success in|
every way.

D.

EUMENEANS DEBATE SUBJECT
RATIFYING
NEW AMENDMENTS |

The subject for debate was, Resolved, |
That ratification of amendments to the}
United States Constitution should be put}
to a direct popular vote of the people, |
a two-thirds majority being necessary to|
adopt an amendment. The gentlemen |
upholding the affirmative were: Moo-}
mawe H. O. Moss, and H. M. Morris. The}
negative was supported by P. M. Patter-|
son, Robins, and Luckie. All of the gen-|
tlemen showed good preparation. H. M. |
Morris, who volunteered to speak on the|
negative in place of an absent member,
was declared by the critic to be the best
speaker of the evening, despite the fact |
that he had no, previous preparation. |

The house voted’ in favor of the nega- |
tive on the merits of the question. The
judges by a two to one vote also decided
that the negative had presented the best
argument,

Following the debate came two excel-|
lent orations, by T. H. Patterson and!
W. T. Elliott.

Patterson spoke on his experiences at
the Volunteer Conference recently held
in Greensboro. He clearly outlined the
many advantages to be obtained from
such conference, and concluded his
oration by urging everyone to attend at
least one conference of this nature dur-
ing his college course.

Elliott, speaking on “Ideals,” traced
these from their very beginning to the
present day. He handled his “subject in
a masterful way, showing good prepara-
tion,

The program was brought to a close
after Purdy, Moffatt, and Freeland, had
all given éxcellent declamations.

.D.
PANDEINICS HEAR PLAN FOR

IMPROVING HONOR SYSTEM

a

The most striking item on the Pandei-
nic program of March 23 was an oration
by T. M. Lowry. His: subject was “Our
Campus.” Taking this term in its broad-
er sense, he spoke of the defects and
strong points of the honor system as it
tiow exists. He drew from this his main
point that only such things as lying,
cheating and stealing, things that have
to do with honor, should be included
under the honor system; and_ other
things, such as hazing and playing of
musical instruments, should be placed
under separate rules of conduct. This,
he said, would make the system much
easier and more practicable.

The query for debate was, Resolved,
That ratification of amendments to the
Federal Constitution should be made
only by a two-thirds vote of the people.
The affirmative was upheld by G. E.
Weeks and C. F. Wildman, and the nega-
tive by G. B. Roberts and J. R. Maxwell.

Current events were presented by E.
H. Mauze, touches of humor being
brought in to make them more enjoyable.

The regular critic being absent, D. R.
LaFar was appointed and performed his
duties as though long accustomed to the
job. ;
D.
METROPHILIANS HEAR TALKS

ON THE ORIGIN OF HUMANS

The regular standard program was
carried out in full at the last meeting of
the Metropolitan Society. A debate on
the subject, Resolved, That in the fu-
ture, amendments to the National Con-

vote of the people, was the first in or-
der. The affirmative was defended by
M. C. Dew, A. M. Hurd, and G Randolph
Uzzell. Yhose arguing that this power
should be left in the hands of Congress

were: Burdette Wolfe, J. D. Brown, and
J. L. Parks.
Aw -extemporaneous debate on the old

]
jand

much-debated Darwinian theory
came next. Fred Smith took the stand
that this theory was entirely wrong,
while P. C. Henderson tried to prove

that our forefathers were wont to swing)

from trees by their lower queues and to
throw cocoanuts at the passersby.

T. A. Lacy delivered a splendid oration. |

The attendance was almost one hundred |
per cent and this meeting was only a
link in a long chain of fine ones held by
|this lively society.

D.

1.OCAL FRATERNITIES ADD
ATTRACTIVENESS TO HALLS

Additional improvements have been
made on the fraternity halls of David-
son, Several weeks ago the Kappa. Al-
|pha and the Pi Kappa Alpha completed
various internal improvements for Ju-

!nior Speaking. Then the ‘nembers of |

Kappa Sigma, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and
| Bachelors’, continued the good work on
their halls.

The floors in each hall were scraped,
sand papered and varnished in prepara-
tion for the celebrations and festivities
f Junior Speaking. After much labor
{the appearance of all the halls has been
very much improved.

D.

JUNIORS STAGE GREATEST
SPEAKING OCCASION YET

al

(Continued from page 1)

that has been held for some time. Its
success was proved by the large number
who made the rounds of the halls. It
provided a change from the regular re-
ception in the gymnasium, and seemed
to be thoroughly enjoyed by all. This
was one of the most enjoyable events of
Junior Speaking, and it is hoped that it
will be incorporated as a regular part of
the celebrations.

Saturday Morning Speeches.
Saturday morning the first eight of the
Junior orators made their speeches in
Shearer Hall. The speeches showed
careful preparation and the deliverance

of the orators was unusually good.

FF, C. Thames, who spoke on “Arkan-
,” pointed out the fact that most peo-
ple have a misconception of Arkansas
and think it backward and undeveloped.
He told of its fit climate for different
crops, of its natural resources and then
told of the prosperity of the people as
a whole. ;

R. U. Woods, the subject of whose
speech was, “Even This Shall Pass
Away,” traced the rise and fall of sev-
cral nations of ancient greatness and
brought out in a clear, forceful manner
that. the security of nations lies in na-
tional character and ideals.

R. F. Davidson who spoke on “Safe-
guarding our Security,” told of the in-
crease of crime and clearly showed the
need for preventive rather than punitive
action. He also outlined a plan which
would far surpass the present system of
dealing with criminals.

gas

Z. A. Morris spoke on “The New Love”
between the nations and told of the
benefits that accompany it.

J. D. Bernhardt spoke on “Davidson’s
Annus Mirabilis.” He told of the, trials
Davidson has passed through and said
it was only necessary to stick by the
guns and Davidson’s “Annus Mirabilis”
would soon come.

M. P. Calhoun in a speech entitled,
“The Value of Obstacles,” showed clear-
ly that obstacles are helps, and except
for them there would be no real. work.
He pictured the lives of several great
men and the obstacles they overcame.

D. H. Ogden, who spoke on, “The Great
Fellowship,” showed the dependence of
world peace on the fellowship of Great
Britain and the United States. He
traced the growth of ‘the friendship be-
tween these two great powers and point-
ed out friendly deeds done by each to
the other. ;

J. A. Grey in “To the God of Greed,”
showed the danger of blindly going af-
ter wealth and sacrificing everything
else to this end. He’also told of wealth
in its relation to health and character.

Saturday Evening Speeches.

‘The second of the Junior oratorical
exercises was held Saturday night in
Shearer Hall. The event was well at-
tended and the audience had the priv-
ilege of hearing eight carefully prepared
and excellently delivered orations.

The exercise was opened by prayer by
Rev. R. C. Clontz, of Cornelius, after

(Continued on page 5)

ATHLETIC NEWS

SPLIT WITH OAK RIDGE IRON 3 Gee 5 1° 40 0
McLeod, rf ............ 662-0. 0-041
| (Continued from page 1) BiWitj Mi; ab. occccccee 5:00): 1-3) 2
MOGI] ID 2veccecuaves 4° 1% 1 1r O O}Sorrells,?p 2.2.2.2. 5 I It 030
| Shields, pradedaubeccses 40:-0 1 2 I) Mailsee, p o2o222 2c L..e 000000
m——-—- ¥—Btic@oc2s.-ccccusces=- 10-40. 0-0" 0.
Total: oss see seeees) B72 .46)g0:10) Tle ee eee
*—Batted for Covington in tenth. TOtals oe seese eke 37 12 14 27 12 5
x—Batted for Boushee in tenth. xBatted for Freeman in sixth.
Score by innings: Score by innings:
Oak Ridge csssccseuce 000 OO! 000 I—2|Oak Ridge -------------__. 100 QI2 000— 4
DGViGkON: “aaduacascaus 000 100 000 O—1/Dividson ----------------- 100 401 06x—12
Summary: Two base hits—Clayton.} Summary: Two base hits—Erwin, M.,
Stolen bases—McMillan 2, Clayton,|2, Erwin, L., Pritchett, Medlin. Three
Autry. Double Play—Clayton to Flowe|base hit—Flowe. Stolen bases—Brown,
| to McGill. Left on bases—Davidson 5,| Pritchett 2, McLeod, Erwin, M., Sorrels
Oak Ridge 6. First base on errors—|2. Sacrifice hits—Brown, Freeman, Size-
Davidson 1, Oak Ridge 2. Hit by pitcher|more. Sacrifice hit—McLeod. Double

—By Boushee, (Clayton). Struck out—

By Boushee 3, by Shields 2.. Time—tr :40.

Attendance—7oo. Umpire—Irby.
Second Oak Ridge Game.

Hard and timely hitting by the Wild-
cats coupled with seven errors by Oak
Ridge decided the second contest with
that Prep school nine in favor. of David-
son, 12-4. This was the first victory of
the season and it split the series with
the Oak Ridgers, each team taking one
game,

Potts, a Davidson boy, hurled the
sphere for Oak Ridge, and except for a
pair of bad innings, got by in great to the grand total of hits, each lashing
style. Davidson pumped out five hits, out three apiece. Freeman, McMillan
and a sacrifice fly in the fourth and at,and Pritchett followed closely with’ a
the end of that stanza had four counters Lrace of clouts apiece. Both of Captain
chalked up to their credit. Again in the! Freeman’s hits took him around to the
eighth inifing, when his support blew up,/hot corner. Every regular Red and
the old Red and Black Machine pushed| Black player got at least one hit.
six tallies by the fourth base on four] The Wildcat nine fielded superbly,
hits and four errors. cutting off many runs by the accuracy

Sorrells pitched a great game for,and cleanness with which they snatched
Davidson, allowing six hits and keeping up the sphere. McPherson, a freshman,
them well scattered. Coach Hengeveld) pitched his first game for Davidson, and
made several shifts in the lineup and,showed promise of becoming one of the
the new combination seemed to work, Premier box artists of the Carolinas. Al-
together like a well-oiled machine. Mc- | though hit hard at times, he kept the
Leod punched out a couple of pretty hits, hits well scattered and aided by his
and also crossed the plate twice. Erwin,;teammates in the field his first game goes
M., got two double sack drives and play} on the credit side of his record.
ed a good game at second. Crawford] Box score:

play—Potts to McGill, Walked—by Sor-

rells 1, by Potts 4. Struck out—by Sor-

rells 4, by Potts 3. Umpire—Irby.
Erskine Game.

The Wildcats collected 17 bingles, in-
cluding two doubles and four triples, off
of tHe redoubtable “Lefty” Beard, Er-
skine’s pitching ace. These hits produced
Ir runs, giving the game to Davidson
by a four-run margin,

The willow invasion of the Wildcats
started in the, first inning and continued
throughout the contest. ‘Crawford and
M. Erwin were the chief contributors

connected with three for base hits. Davidson: ab r hpoa e
Box Score: Brownenicsscoss cos ce (estes Fie te a)
Oak Ridge: abr hy pora e} Bnwinjels,) cf 222222 loco UG) oleeles Be1010)

Glayconies sins asesssees Beate Oms Tea dyenunce mang Dmasteeaunas SAG anutang ae

Sizemore, 3b --- 3.0 1 2 2 1,Crawford, tb -- a; § 2 {wi aw

Flowe, 2b ___- - 4 1 2 1 1 o0 MeMillan, c --- a GE Jo @)

Avtry, If —. 4°r 0 3 1 1 Pritchett, ss —- ee Crt eh)

Mattox, If - 2 0 0 1 0 ‘o McLeod, If ---- Bee? (Wenteat <() ()

King, rf —-- 20000 0 Erwin, M., 2b —- Ss aSh ata ugeasang)

Long, cf --- - 4 001 0 o McPherson, p -- ae 250 Os sty alee tO

McGill, 1b - -- 4 1 110 0 2 Moore, p -- - 0 0 0/0 0 0

Medlin, ¢ ----------..- BeO ea) 2 tN Brice asc ses eS reer 6 000

ROttS pose seas o eee ji Won A ow — a

Esa Sealy pape ese Motals) 2222222222222 40) It 127 19) 1
Motalsessscssess See 32 4 6 2413 7 xBatted for McPherson in the seventh.
Davidson: ab r hpo.a ec Erskine. ab r h paa_e

Brownlf 222.20 02220 32 Ae GG) 1 NOME, OF eee 6012 1

BitwitthbeaGies.scs.22 = Ak vn 4 0) @ UNE, 63 see At 2-35 20

Freeman, 3b ---------- 2 1 1 1 2 1 Thompson, rf -----.--- 5 or 100

Covington, 3b -------__ le 10. 0. ommeandyap. scenes eceleS 422040

GrawtOrdiDraccencccce § 2 310 1 1 Scoggins, Ib ---_---<-- Aa 2st 270-20

McMillan, ¢ -------___. §-2—2—-s-—-4-0 (Continued on page 3)

Union Theological Seminary

, Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D..,. Fresilent

Oldest Theological Seminary in the
Southern states.

Young as the youngest in its
progressive methods.

A Theological Seminary that makes preachers.

42% of present student body from
Davidson College.

Catalogue and information upon request.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright
& Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 K. Trade St. A. L. Faal, Mgr. Phene 902 ;

