Welcome,
Columbia
Students!

THEDAVI

Fifteen
For Our
Basketeers!

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10. 1922.

No. 19

Dr. Thornton Whaling Delivers Address
on the Making of Wilson

Heredity, Education, Reaction to Environment, and Divine Dynamism,
Presented as Influences Responsible for Wilson’s
Character and Power.

Last Monday morning during the assembly period Dr. Thornton
Whaling, formerly president of Columbia Theological Seminary, and at |
present the professor of theology at Louisville Theological Seminary of
J.ouisville, Ky., delivered an extremely entertaining talk upon a subject ;
that is of particular interest to Davidson students, “The Making of |

Pat Crawford Captain and
Guard on Wildcat |

1

Quintet

Fast Running Right Guard Is Play-|

ing a Great Game This Year.

Wildcat Five Defeats N. C. State in
Thrilling Game by 23-22 Score

Davidson Leads in First Half—Score in Second Half Swings From
Side to Side—Foul Throw Ties for State Just Before Whistle,
Another Wins for Locals.

Around these figures—Davidson 23, N. C. State 22—is woven the story
of Saturday’s game in which Coach Hengeveld'’s “Poison Squad” won its
third consecutive game of the season by fighting its way to one of the
most thrilling and exciting victories of the year, ;

The large crowd went wild when the
home team won, The game was a splen-

Woodrow Wilson.” |

Doctor Whaling, an old Davidson
alumnus, was intimately associated with
Mr. Wilson at Davidson and was one of
his closest boyhood friends.

Doctor Whaling opened his talk by
stating that the actual making of a man
may be taken up from four separate and
distinct viewpoints—first, his heredity;
second, his education; third, his reaction
to his environment; and, fourth, his di-
vine superhuman dynamism. He then
showed how these influences had work-
ed in Woodrow Wilson.

The Wilsons were of Scotch-Irish
descent and as a family they seem to
have inherited all the strong traits,
physical, intellectual, and moral, that)
have characterized this sturdy and stal-

Salisbury “Y” Secretary
Addresses Davidson Men

Christian Leadership Particularly
Among Boys is Strongly Urged.

Mr. E. M. Hoffman, of Salisbury, was |
the speaker at the “Y” service last Sun-/

day. He gave a stirring talk on the
question as to why Christian leaders |
are so scarce, |
Preceding Mr. Hoffman's address an \

impressive memorial service was held in
honor of Ralph the lately
deceased friend and fellow student of |
Davidson men. Murdock McLeod, in a’
few well chosen words, paid a beautiful |
tribute to him. |

Lancaster,

on Influence of Teachers

History Professor of Richmond Uni-
versity Delivers Strong Address.

Dealing with the teacher and his tre
mendous moulding influence upon both
individual and community life, Dr. S.C.
Mitchell, Professor of History at Rich
mond University, addressed a large and
attentive Shearer Hall
the evening of Saturday, February. qth.

audience in on

After an introduction by Doctor Lin-
gle, Doctor Mitehell first outlined: the
four. periods of leadership of education in
the South. Virginia ted,
then South Carolina, next Georgia, under

First, he said

Dr. S. C. Mitchell Speaks

Shad

did exhibition of the hardwood game as
it should be played and if possible was
even more exciting than the slim margin
of victory would indicate.

The game
teams in a deadlock, 22 to 22,

with tie
After a
short rest Captain George sent the teams

regular ended

together for five minutes more of squab-
ble. In this nighteap frame each team
two from the foul line.
Park, of State, missed both his tries, but
Captain the Wildeats,
}dropped the winning point through the
meshes,

chances

Crawford, of

Any attempt to name the stars of the

local cage artists would be a mere
enumeration of the five-man machine
that refused to accept defeat at the

haiids of the

wart people. Woodrow’s father, Rev. ihe oes |
; ees th college graduates are not

Dr. Joseph Ruggles Wilson, was of pure} ae ne a Ree i deaseit of |

Scotch-Irish descent, and was a strictly REL AR Raat Ns cate -

thod Galvinieie reeletenianeininelmen 0° fill the places of leadership in|
orthodox, Calvinistic Presbyteris -| |
: ‘ : | boys’ work and other forms of con-

ister, one of the most. brilliant and : ae
: ; ‘ 2 : | structive work. The speaker gave three
scholarly of his day. His grandfather if i j
peas ee ey pa {reasons for this: First, as a rule col-|
on his mothér’s side, Rev. Thomas}

' “ Way ‘lege men d6 not receive while in college
Woodrow, was a Scotch minister whose | f ‘ Nee |
fa vital conception of discipleship, the

yrofession was in keeping with the tra-| ‘ ; |
Lots fe rae Pita Hi | devotion of a life to a great purpose, and
ditions of his family, which family en-|

; ; i i ( jare unable to distinguish between nor-
ved kins U > Covenanters. ' Tea |
HedeRE La) ally Ute | mal and nominal Christians; second, col- }

The education of Woodrow Wilson | lege not appreciate the real |
was in line with his heredity. He delights social significance of Christian work; |
in saying that his own father M3 his) third, they are unwilling’ to pay the price |
first and greatest teacher. According to) of leadership, in time, effort, and char- |
his own account he actually discovered, | 4 cter,
while attending his father’s prayer meet- | TRECGRTFACE Wille Hie ahboesthectiree
ings, that he had a mind and could think | HOHUIREHIN ts Stor Ginieian jeatioeninin
UNE SOUL fOvenimieerk: |}were given as follows: First, a warm

He was a student for a year at Das lvoncention of Christian discipleship must
vidson, an institution which embodied | },, fdlh, aha nical Co avert (lags tae Ge
the essence of Scotch and Scotch-Irish | theory of Christ and more about Christ
culture which permeated his own | Himself, It is not what we believe, but
life. He came to Davidson in 1873, at] whom we believe, that counts. Second,
the age of 17 years, a singularly pure,!, constant vision of the social signifi-'
clean, and moral youth, embodying all of | cance of directed work is required. Our
the principles for which his father stood. duty to mankind is undone until the race,
He did not attempt to conceal the fact) jydustrial, and social problems confront-
that he was not a candidate for the/jng the world have been tackled. The
ministry. His speeches on thacampus character and morals of the youth of
and his debates in the literary society! America must be elevated by transform-
revealed the extraordinary psychological) ing their environment. Third, the price
adjustment of his mind. From the stand-| 45 jeadership must be willingly paid. A
point of the philosophy of adolescence leadorucannotilivenal celtecentenedetite:
there was no more important year in his/tj. must possess the moral excellence
life than the one which he spent at Da-| which he is trying to develop in others.
vidson, said the speaker. | Everybody has a certain degree of in-

When -asked by Doctor Whaling if he! quence ihe Aine
| Muence must be made a positive one.

In closing, an earnest appeal for Chris-
|tian leaders was made. Because college
|men represent the pick of youth the
world is looking to them to fill the
| places of Christian leadership, and unless
| they do it, no one will. It is their duty
Lto.go out into the world as witnesses of
lthe success of the American Christian
|cotlee,

| Mr. Hoffman, having engaged in boys’
| work in New York and: in Chicago, and
lalso having been a Y. M. C. A.’secretary
|}to China and Russia, was an authority on
| his subject. He is now serving as the
in M. C. A. secretary at Salisbury. By
jinfusing his pleasing personality into his
speech| he gripped the hearts of his au-
dience.

| The music as well handled by Shep-
|herd, McKeithen, and Nesbitt. Russell
[conducted the service.

men do

so

over certain people.

(Continued on page 4)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Welcome home, basketeers. you
did yourselves proud!

Farmers, Every man put
every ounce of fight and work that he

The Wildeats

again uncorked the well conecived and

the leadership of men dike Grady and
Hill, and finally North Carolina,. who
first championed the principle that the
common the average
Due to this governing principle
North Carolina still leads in Southern,
education,

possessed into the game,
school clevates
mind. deceptive type of passing that carries
the ball down the floor at a dizzy clip.
Few. long shots were attempted, reliance
being placed mainly in shots from close

Speaking next on the choosing of a
under the goal,

calling, Doctor Mitchell showed that. it
is a matter for cach man to decide for}
himself in the inmost recesses of his|en hand to witness the fracas that pro-
It is necessary for one to decide | vided many an opportunity for outburst

The largest crowd of the season was

heart.
upon his future career at a comparative- fof pent-up enthusiasm. Again and again
ly carly age in order that he may better | the crowd rocked the building with a
prepare himself for it during his schol-| burst of cheering as some player hit the
Moreover, he pointed out meshes for a brace of tallies.

astic years,

that it is of much more importance ‘al Coach Hengeveld's clan got busy soon

Pat Crawford, leader of the Wildcat
five, hails from Sumter, S. C., from*which
place he brought to Davidson an athletic

record worthy of a true son of the old}

college, He won a letter there for two
years in football, three in basketball and
four in baseball.’ Although never shin-
ing as a student, his marks show re-
markable application and perseverance
in one with so many outside attractions.

(Continued on page 2)

Ralph E. Lancaster, 1915,
Called by Death Saturday

Heart Trouble Cause of Sudden
Death to Winston-Salem Boy. -

Ralph Earle Lancaster, '25, of Winston-
Salem, died in the college infirmary last
Saturday morning, February 4th, from
an attack of heart trouble.

This quict, pleasant youth was-cut off
suddenly in the middle of his twenty-
second year and when he had just begun
to prepare himself for life-work,
which he wished to be that of a chemist.

His death came as a deep and sudden
shock to the whole student body. Fri-
day afternoon he was alive and well, but
before 1 o'clock Saturday morning he
was dead.

his

With four other boys Lancaster went
to Mooresville Friday night to see a bas-
ketball game between the Mooresville
and Winston-Salem girls’ teams. He
was taken ill at the game and went to
a doctor, who gave him some medicine.
As he seemed to be recovered the group
then went to a movie

decide on the spirit of your life work jafter the initial whistle and never let up
| than on the calling itself, emphasizing Suntil the timer’s stopwatch registered
the case of ideal Christian service ver- Davis start-
| ed the fireworks when he droped the ball
j through the goal on a beautifully ex-
jecuted play. The first half ended 10-5,
less the thought of Christian service has! with the Davidson quint sitting on top.
permeated it. The five-man defense put up by the locals

forty-five minutes of play.

sus mere success, A man may reach the
| . :
}h’ghest realms of success in his worldly

affairs yet it will count for naught un-

in this period proved almost impregnable.
The fun began in the second half when

Turning toward the profession of teach
ing, he showed how very fundamental it | :
is, Wlustrating the wonderful moulding the Raleigh lads started with a rush and
effect which teachers can exert by the soon had the score knotted. The teams
case of George Witt, who educated at | battled along until, with but a minute to

William and Mary University four of May, State was leading 21-20. But Mauze

the greatest men our nation has ever| dumped in a nice basket and the game
known: Jefferson, Marshall, Munroe and) appeared to be safe. Just as the timer
Clay. He told of the great influence | (Continued on page 4)

which Watt had on cach of these lives
and how through Marshail he gave to the

|

(Continued on page 4)

edad p Pench, Sores, Seed Peet oe cent facet Hecker Saeesey ater pat
world the principle that the court could . é
set aside the decree of the legislative | | WHAT'S DOING. :
body. ie TI ee eb RoBi Garg le
Speaking of public offices, he showed |, rr aheceeeetanes Wate cnc oe ay *
that there are three classes of men whol, Se Be *
occupy them—the politician, then the * vessaagififinn ee 9:00 p.m *
statesman, and finally and best of all,|, eniclite eget 5760 . an *
the publicist. He cited Woodrow Wilson * ents Feb we eres : *
as an example of the publicist and point-|, "Wildcats aire Pera ae : ‘
ed out that any man in any profession ‘ aie “Feb ESTE EE Band, *
could be a publicist, the type of man}, ae = Hee a
who Be * C. E. Training Class, 1:00 p. m. *
Finally Doctor Mitchell showed that | * Ministerial Band, 1:45 p. m. *
the greatest thing in the South is the|« “Y”" meeting, 6:15 p. m, hs
growth of community life. The old state + Monday, Feb. Taeesead ere OfeMissiones
of society was based on three elements * Sunike Claas. 9:30 p. m. *
—the home, the church, and the state.| » Waihvasihwe, Feb. 1s—Basketball: *
To these are being added that of com-]« rajheyny ex: Devideant *
munity life, toward which all progress!» Mission Study Classes, 9:00 pi m.
is headed. Therefore a man’s greatest], * %* * * x xk kk ko
chance of service to his country and es-
pecially to the South is as a high school] = =
principal in a small town where he can|life in all the various problems which
feel and aid the growth of community] face it today.

SD

300 AGAIN--QUALITY FIRST!

SD
