THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

The DAVIDSO

rth Carolina Collegiate Press Association
ag pot oy Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in-the-hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

---Editor-in-Chief
-Managing Editor
Managing Editor

---Forum Editor
.-Campus Editor
. M. C, A. Editor

‘Social’ Editor

bef gtREE 2
KF. DAVIDSO.

Aes wy PT Editor Literary Editor
thletic Editor ¥ ---Litera i
AE SOMMERS: “Alumni Editor BRS Gocosce ae Publicity Editor

J. H. McKEITHEN

REPORTERS’ CLUB

’ FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres
BRADFORD, Wit. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, Wet on
BROWN, C. ‘6 HESTON yuh M. eon Shh ec.-Treas |
BRO MOUNT Mt | RR: TULLER, C. D.
Coxe re JONES Te WALTHALL, D._B.
ELKINS, L, D. LACY, T._A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

.--Business Manager
IHEPARD
2

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

. C, WOO .
L. A. TAYLOR, E, T. wooLFOLR and Asst. Business Managers

H i 7 Assi: in Circulati Department:
i Py ; POSSELLS rome a iat Saad S. C. FAIN P. C. HENDERSON
mae Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advértisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The Wake Forest game on Saturday night will end the basketball
season for this year. Now for baseball.
D
WHO WON THE GAME?

It is not the custom of the Davidsonian to offer alibis for Davidson
defeats, nor do we ask that any one give us credit for victories which
we have not won. If we believe that our team has been outplayed we
do not hesitate to admit the fact, and to give our rivals credit for their
skill, In a case where a sports writer takes a clear cut Davidson victory,
however, and makes it appear in his newspaper story as a victory for
our opponents, we cannot refrain from voicing our protest. Of such a
nature was the recent account of the Davidson-Trinity basketball game
which appeared in the columns of the Charlotte Observer.

In the game under discussion the Wildcats were victors bya five
point margin, their success being in no respect due to a fluke. David-
son was as clearly the winner in this contest as Trinity had been in the
previous game between the institutions, which the’Methodists had won
hy six points. Instead of giving any credit to the. Wildcat Five, how-
ever, the sports writer of the Observer attempted to portray the game
as a Trinity victory, His only diffigulty seemed to lie in the fact that
the score was in favor of Davidson, and his article failed to satisfactor-
ily account for that fact. He described the Methodists as a crippled
team with two meh missing, and as handicapped by not knowing their
signals, and yet gives them credit for displaying superior training and
for outplaying Davidson. Every possible excuse was made for the de-
feated team, In concluding the article the statement was made that
Davidson’s five-point margin was accounted for by her five goals from
fouls. Immediately below comes the statemeént that Trinity scored
seven points by the same method. The influence seems to be that
Trinity’s seven points had no effect on the score but that Davidson’s
five accounted for the victory, {} {

The story was plainly unfair and prejudiced, if not unsportsman-
like throughout, and we cannot believe that it is in accord with the
Observer’s policy of printing only unbiased accounts of athletic con-
tests. The Trinity team was doubtless handicapped by the ineligibility
of two players and we sympathize with them in their misfortune. No
mention has been made, however, of the fact that one of Davidson's
star players of last year has been ineligible all year. on account of his
studies, and-failed to play in either Trinity game, nor has Davidson
tried to explain any of her defeats on this ground. As to the statement
that Trinity outplayed Davidson there are many spectators who take
issue with the Observer. The fact remains that the Wildcats were clear-
ly the winners, and should have been given credit for their victory.

D.

DAVIDSON’S NEW ATHLETIC POLICY.

In a rather inconspicuous place in last week’s Davidsonian there ap-
peared an article perhaps frought with greater possibilities for the suc-
“cess of Davidson’s athletic teams than any which has gone before it. It
was a statement of the new policy of the college in the matter of the
control of all forms of athletics here.

Hitherto the government in such matters has lain wholly with the
faculty; in the future the alumni too are to havea share in the de-
cisions. The entire athletic policy of the college will be under the con-
trol of a council composed of four representatives from the faculty and
three from the alumni, A special attempt “will be made to improve
Davidson’s teams by the securing of more funds, and the provision of
more coaches and better equipment for the players. At the same time
our ancient policy of offering athletics no financial inducements to at-
tend this college will be strictly adhered to.

The advantages of the new plan are easily apparent. Davidson
alumni have always been ardent supporters of their college and its
teams, but they have lacked anything to bring them into. vital contact
with their Alma Mater. The newly adopted arrangement will not only
give them renewed interest in athletics here, but through giving them a

share in the control of these. affairs will assure, the permanence of their

N I AN| Open Forum

*.support. It is the breaking of a new day for athletics at Davidson.

|

LET’S DO!

This season, fellows, we should, more
than ever lately, be proud of our bas-
ketball team. For the first time in sev-
eral years it has won most of its games
on foreign courts; and with its successes
here at home, we can justly claim a team

deserving to compete with Carolina for|

the state chg@impionship.

But have we ever thought what will
be the reward of our players for thus up-
holding the honor of old Davidson and
spreading» her-fame?
cient direction of Coach Grey and Coach
Hengeveld, our athletics are being put
on a new basis. Why can’t we show our
loyalty and appreciation, and take one
step forward ourselves!

Is it “exactly fair to the basketball
players if give sweaters to the other
teams and leave them out-entirely? Of
course, money is scarce and we are call-

j}ed upon often, but it seems that David-
}son men would be willing to back their

team to this extent, especially when we
consider what other schools do.

It has been suggested that we try the!

same scheme that was used to huy the
baseball sweaters last spring. If every-
body will pay a quarter to see the last
game, the money can be used to pay for
sweaters and we will never miss it. If
for our quarter we can see a victory

over Wake Forest, I know we will all|'

feel well repaid.
D

A WALKING SUGGESTION.

The Forum Editor made a statement
a while back that if anyone had-an idea
that they wanted expressed to do so
through its columns, Well, I haven’t a
suggestion of my own, but there is one
that I heard the other night that I would
like to pass on for what it is worth.

At one of the Literary Societies Thurs-
day night the statement was made by
one of the speakers that a good use to
put the old bricks of Chambers to would
be to build brick walks all over the cam-
pus. This seemed all right at the time,
but later it was brought out in a discus-
sion that nobody wanted brick walks
around here, that they wouldn’t be in
keeping with the rest of the campus.
Then another bright young fellow got
his thinking cap to working and brought
forth the proposition that all the bricks
be ground into small particles and that
walks be made out of this fine material.

Now I'm no civil engineer, not having
taken even Applied Math, but still this
seemed to me like a pretty sane and
comman sense plan, There are lots of
bricks from old Chambers which are
broken and cannot be used for any build-
ing purposes. Why not grind these up
and make good walks? They would
make firm, substantial, long-wearing,
and, above all, quick-drying walks. The
experiment might be tried on the Rum-
ple-Phi Society Hall path, and if it
worked there could be extended further,

You folks that have all the learning
and know about such things, tell us
whether this is a good plan, and if it
is, do all you canto see that this plan
is put across. Ego.

D.

UNIQUE BOOK CLUB FORMED
BY LADIES OF DAVIDSON

A unique Book Club unnamed as yet,
has recently been, formed at Davidson
among the ladies of the town. The
membership is to be limited to 13 active
members and*13 associate members, the
husbands of the active members being
taken in as associates.

Although a constitution and by-laws
have not yet been adopted, very inter-
esting and,attractive meetings are being
arranged. It is planned -to have one
meeting a month with only the active
members present and one meeting of
both active and associate members, the
latter being a general get-together pre-
ceded by a supper when feasible.

Each member is to bring one book per
year and exchange every month. By
this means books not otherwise obtain-
able will be secured. The present active
membership is as follows: Mrs. E. J. Er-
win, Mrs. R. W. Pettingill, Miss Mary
Monroe, Mrs. J. W. McConnell, - Miss
May Ellenwood, Mrs. F. K. Fleagle, Mrs.
T..G. Hearn, Mrs. W. G. Porter and Mrs.
Hurd.

Under—the —effi-,

With Other Colleges

| OLD D. C. MAN HEADS ELON “Y.”
|
|

Elon, N. C., Feb. 22—After the regular
| chapel service here this morning, a meet-
ling of the Y M. C. A. was called for the

purpose of electing officers for the next
| term. Loyd J. Bray, the vice-president
|for this session, was elected president
|for the coming year. P, D. Rudd was
| elected vice-president and M. Z. Rhodes,
|sccretary. The Y. M. C. A. has been an
active organization on the campus this
year and promises to hold its place dur-
ping the coming year,

D:

| THE “QUEENS” OF QUEENS STUDY
POLITICS.

Charlotte, N. C,, Feb. 22—Rena Blan-
ton, president of the Student Govern-
ment Association, and Margaret Ander-
son, prominent member of the Senior
class, attended the National League of
Women Voters’ Convention which met
in Greensboro February 15 and 16. Miss
Blanton was sent by the student body
and Miss Anderson by the college to
represent Queens. The delegates derived
much valuable knowledge concerning
woman's place in present-day affairs.

D
DR. VOIGHT AT LENOIR.

Hickory, N. C, Feb. 22—Lenoir Col-
lege was honored by a short visit from
Dr. Voight, dean of the Lutheran Theo-
logical Seminary, at Columbia, the first
of last week. While here Dr. Voight
delivered three addresses, Sunday morn-
ing to the Diakonian Club, at St. Andrews
congregation, and Monday morning to
the student body at the regular chapel
exercises,

D.
NEW DEAN’ AT MEREDITH.

Raleigh, N. C., Feb. 22—Miss Gertrude
Royster has been appointed Dean of
Women for the remainder of.the spring
semester. This position was left vacant
by the death of Miss Evelyn Campbell.
Miss Royster has been Director of Phy-
sical Education for several years, and
is ably qualified to fill the position she
now holds,

D
SHAKESPEARE READER AT ELON.

Elon, N..C.,, Feb. 22—C. E. W. Griffith,
celebrated American reader of the Chi-
cago Shakespeare Club, entertained here
last Wednesday, February 8. In the aft-
ernoon Mr. Griffith gave a skillful inter-
Pretation of Shakespeare’s famous trag-
edy, “Hamlet,” and in the evening prov-
ed himself equally skilled and talented
in comedy when he read, “As You Like
Tt” ;

The entertainments were given under
the auspices of the Music Lovers’ Club
of Elon College. It was the last of a
series of entertainments which have
been provided by the club this season.

: D.
QUEENS BLUES MOVES ’
INTO NEW QUARTERS

Charlotte, N. C, Feb. 22—The Queens
Biues staff will give a house warming in
their new office Saturday, February 18.
The staff is looking forward to the oc-
cupying of this new office with much
interest.

D
ODDS AND ENDS.

(Meredith)—Thirty-five Juniors and
Seniors were the guests of the State Col-
lege Agricultural men on Saturday even-
ing, February 11, at their annual recep-
tion. The boys made delightful hosts
and an unusually good time was enjoyed
by the Meredith guests

(Queens)—Robert H. Thompson, of
New York, memory expert, with two
friends visited Queens College last Wed-
nesday morning. Mr, Thompson spoke
on the value of developing an active and
retentive memory.

D.

The student body and townspeople are
interested in hearing that seven build-
ings of Southern College, at Clearwater,
Florida, were burned last week. Doctor
Hunt, former Biology professor here is

a member of the faculty of that institu-
tion.

1F YOu'L'

.
TELL ME
EX fu rein,

{
Read the Exchanges ta the “Y” Room.,

t

MYSELF.

I have to live with myself, and so

I want to fit myself to know.

I want to be able as days go by,
Always ,to look myself straight in the

Lhd Saray i :
I don’t want to stand; with the setting:
sun { )

And hate myself for the things P’ve done.

I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf

A lot of secrets about myself,

And fool mySelf, as I come and go,

Into thinking that nobody else will know

The kind of man I really am.

I don’t want to dress myself up in sham,

I want to go out with my head! erect, 3

I want to deserve all men’s respect;

Lut here in struggle for fame and pelf }

I want to be able to like mysetf,

I don’t want to look at myself and know

That I'm bluster and bluff and empty

show.

T never can hide myself from me;

I see what others may never see;

I know what others may never know

I never can fool myself, and so, }

Whatever happens, I want to be

Self-réspecting and éonscience free, ‘
: —Selected. ,

D

Princeton, N. J.—Power to expel stu-
dents without giving reasons to the fac-
ulty has been granted to the under-grad-
uate governing body of the University.
This body is composed of students elect-
ed by all the classes and may exercise
the right of dismissal oyer those whom”
they find guilty of not upholding the
good name and, traditions of Princeton,

D. :

I DON’T WANT TO BE BAD.

I don’t want to be bad,
But I sure would like
To “roll my own”
_An’ be a “vamp”
An’ “bob’ my hair.
I don’t want to be bad
But, ohy how. I-wish --
Some big, good-lookin’ man
Would grab me up in his arms
An’ say I was cute
An’, oh, so sensible
_ An’—but of course I don’t wanna be
bad.
: D. —
‘FIGURE IT OUT,”

How many apples did Adam and Eve
eat?

Some say Eve cight and Adam two--
—a total of ten onty.

Now we figure the thing out far dif-
ferently: .Eve eight and Adam eight
also—total 16,

We think the above figures are en-
tirely wrong:

If Eve eight and Adam 82, certainly
the total will be oo.

Scientific men, however, on the
strength of the theory that the ante-
diluvians were giants, reason some-
thing like this: Eve 81 and Adam 82—
total 163.

Wrong again. What could be clearer
than if Eve 81, Adam 812 which makes
803.—Ex.

! A i —D. ‘ 3
THE COLLEGE STAR.

His name appears on all the lists
Of those who vied in sports,

He shook a pair of wicked fists;
He starred on tennis courts;

His inshoot was a thing of dread
To each opposing batter,

Professors thought him tight of head,
But+do professors matter? t

At basketball” he: caged the! spheté
With'-siper-human''art; >’ 4

He vaulted high and fast and clear; .
And sped like any dart

Qn cinder paths until he won;
His fame is common knowledge.

His learning may be underdone,
But—rah, rah, rah for college!

—Ex.

D.

Mrs. Hurd gave a small “42” party’on
Washington’s;-birthday in her apart: _
ments at the McConnell home. ~~ ©
