THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

FAMOUS JOURNALIST IS
DISCUSSED AND STUDIED

Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity
met Thursday night in the S. A. E. hall.
After the business session the group entered
into a study of Henry Watterson, acclaimed
by many writers as the greatest of Ameri-
can journalists.

This study was conducted by Dunbar
Ogden. Articles of biographical nature were
read and many were the tributes paid to the
deceased writer. The articles had to do
largely with Mr. Watterson’s work as owner
and editor of the Courier-Journal of Louis-
ville.

Mr. Watterson’s ‘contributions to the
journalistic world were many and _ note-
worthy.

D.

HOME TALENT PLAYS TO
BE PRESENTED SOON

The ladies of the Davidson chapter of the
Red Cross will present two one-act plays at
Shearer Hall on December 9th, for the bene-
fit of the Red Cross Tuberculosis Fund. The
plays selected are two of the most popular of
their kind and are being presented allover
thé country by many amateur players. They
are “Joint Owners in Spain,” by Alice Brown
and “The Neighbors,” by Zona Gale.

The first of these plays has its scene laid
in an old Ladies’ Home where the matron
tries to prevent the trouble she is having
with the two worst inmates by placing them
in the same room. The scene of “The Neigh-
bors” is laid in a small village in which the
people are too much interested in. their own
sellish lives, until a complete change is
brought’ about by the situations of the plot.
The interest of both plays lies in the hu-
morous situations which occur.

The plays are being coached by Mrs. R.
H. Wagner, who has had experience in this
work, and there is every indication that the
affair will be a great success.

D.
PHI SOCIETY DEBATES
COLLEGE SHOP QUESTION

The Phi Society meeting last Thursday
night was handicapped by the absence of
an unusual number of its members. The
coaching classes and night reviews are large-
ly responsible for absences.

The debate on a system of general College
Shops for Davidson College, owned and ope-
rated by the Athletic Association, was
strongly and hotly contested. The affirmative
was represented by R. J. Smith and A. S.
Jones, while the negative was upheld by R.
D. White and R. M. McGirt. The vote of
the judges was in favor of the negative.

M. P. Calhoun gave an oration, choosing
“Time” as his subject. He forcefully showed
where a man loses time and gains time during
his college career, grasping opportunities
when they present themselves and making
opportunities where they are lacking.

The first critic, J. W. Baldwin, was absent
so S. R. Sloan was appointed to act as
critic.

EUMANEANS PLAN FOR
_REJUVENATION MEETING

The meeting of the Eumanean Literary
Society on November 16th was very poorly
attended. Of the 10 members present, there
were none on the program, so the house was
thrown open to various discussions,

Dunbar Ogden, newly-elected president of
the society, resigned the chairmanship of the
executive committee and appointed Layton
Fraser in his place.

The next thing discussed was some method
to obtain more interest in the weekly meet-
ings. The of the ab were dis-
tributed among those present, in order that
they might see those absent and endeavor to
revive the old Eu spirit that is held dear,
but latent, in the hearts of all its children.
__It was decided that the mecting of the 23rd
should be a rally meeting when all the mem-
bers would be present, much business taken
up, and a society emblem adopted.

; D.

. The Value of a Smile
Nobody ever added up,
The value of a smile;
We know how much a dollar’ 's worth,

e

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY
DEBATES FRESH FAGGING

The Metrophilian held their regular meet-
ing last Tuesday evening. The subject for
regular debate was, Resolved, That the fag-
ging of Freshmen at Davidson should be
stopped.

M. W., Trawick and Faggot were: appoint-
ed on the affirmative while N. McLeod and
Christenbury upheld the negative. The de-
bate was very good in view of the fact that
two of the speeches were impromptu.

The subject for extemporaneous debate
was, Resolved, That the dormitory super-
visor-should_criticise—the—janitors—only,—J.
\. Thompson upheld the affirmative against
C. E, Hodgin on the negative.

The judges decided three for ‘the nega-
tive.

J. D. Bernhart delivered a forceful ora-
tion on the R, O, T, €. at Davidson.

After a short business session, the meet-
ing adjourned,

D

ROMANTIC ROMEOS

HORSED IN THE
ATLANTA JOURNAL

All romance is not dead by a long shot
for there are two romantic young would-be
Romeos in the Freshman class who sought
adventure by writing to a young Atlanta lady
whose picture they saw in the Sunday edition
of she Journal. They claim innocence of
the matter but the evidence is all too plainly
there since their letters were published along
with a “sermon” by the lady herself on “The
Vanity of Men Who. Think That All Girls
Are Just Dying to Write to Them.” She
says: “They think they are irrestible.”

Letters from all over the United States
were put in print and Davidson should feel
proud that she was so well represented. It
seems that a picture of a good looking girl
affects all college men in the same way for
there were some from Notre Dame, Chicago
University, Carolina, Clemson and many
other schools.

Walter Scott’s headed the list of all that

were published and “Chick” Evans’ followed
about fifth, From this it would seem that
Scott has ‘a better line than Chick, but you
never can tell. Inthe interview which The
Journal had with Miss Dot Anderson, they
asked her for some samples of the many let-
ters which she received and these two boys
were lucky enough to be among those of the
“higher type.” y
Here are the two “lines:” judge them for
yourself; Scotts: My dearest Dot: Was
quite fascinated at your picture in the paper.
Were you at the Davidson-Tech game?
Wish | could have seen you then. I was
there. I played in the game, did you see
number two? You will have to excuse. all
this nerve but I just had to write. You
don’t mind do you? I think I have some
kinfolks in Atlanta and if I come down
Christmas, may I call you up?
Will you do me a great favor, tne greatest
possible, in my éstimation? Just write me
a letter will you? I have framed the pic-
ture of you but I certainly wish that I
might have a real one. Won't you send me
one? I have autographed photos of Gloria
Swanson, Nita Naldi and Agnes Ayres and
I want to put yours by their side. W. S.

Chick’s: Dearest Dot: I saw your pic-
ture in the Sunday paper. I’m a patron of
roller skating myself, but that isn’t what at-
tracted my attention to your picture. It was
that smile that makes you rate my greatest
affection and admiration. You don’t know
how lonesome it is up here and when I see
such a beautiful picture as yours I can’t get
it off my mind for days. Not that I want to,
but: you know what I mean. I know this is
rather informal and unconventional, but
couldn’t you drop a lonesome boy a line? I
think I’ll go to Tech next year and I would
like to be acquainted with some one before
I go. Won’t you introduce me to some of
them when I get there? No, I believe I’d
rather know just you and let the others go.

Is that enough for you! to know about

”

_ Although letters came from nearly every
college in the States, there were only six
which rated publishing. Two of these were
from Davidson. Maybe D. C. didn’t have 1
single. man on the all-American football
team, but she put two on the all-American
“bull-shooters,” which is something in it-
self. We should be proud of these mighty
pushers of the pen. It is said that the pen is’
mightier..than the. sword—doesn’t . this prove
it?

me? I’ve framed your picture. Couldn’t |
you send me a real one?
Yours in roller skating, Cc. E.

me

+++ +++ +

MINISTERIAL BAND HEAR
PATTERSON AND WOODS

wo Union Seminary students spoke to
the Ministerial students ‘at’ their regular
meeting. Mr. Patterson, in enlightening the
students as to what is in store for them at the
seminary, told the members what the semi-
nary is and what it does for the student, He
first quoted a few popular objections to a
seminary, especially those of.its being an in-
stitution where one’s views are narrowed,
and- where ideas and theology are crammed
into one to be later dryly handed out, and
also the objection of its not having a thor-
ough enough Bible course. To refute these,
he gave .# brief explanation of the courses
of instruction at the seminary. There are
four courses pursued for three years that
bear directly on the Bible; the study of the
English Bible, the study of Greek or the New
Testament, the study of Hebrew or the Old
Testament, and a study of Theology, which
is an attempt to understand the teachings o1
the Bible. Indirectly, but importantly bear-
ing on the ministerial profession are the two
courses, Church History and Religious Edu-
cation, Along with this theoretical work is
opportuhity in the summer to spend four
months in ministerial work, together with a
good deal of practical work in the city dur-
ing the winter. Such is what a seminary has
to offer to a student and is much better than
purely a Bible School training.
Mr. Woods explained what the seminary
means to its students. He told how Jesus
called the 12, trained them and sent them
out, and how the 12 learned principles and
methods of teaching from association with
Jesus. Then heshowed how the seminary
students are first called and how they are at

Davidson’s

Reputation

@It’s keeping is in our

hands.

@ Remember

when you write home, to

that fact
your girl, to your friends
in other schools—watch

for that little slip.

@ When you are away
from “The Hill’ remem-
_ber_that you are Old _
Davidson incarnate. Your -
deeds, your words, your
thoughts, are those of Old
Davidson—be sure that

you are proud of them.

the seminary learning of Jesus, his doctrines
and principles. “Our spiritual life becomes
mature at the seminary from contact wit
the faculty, students and a closer fellowship
with the Master.”

4 SEMINARY STUDENTS
TALK TO VOLUNTEERS

The Volunteer Band was addressed Sun-
day morning by four Union Seminary stu-
dents. Womeldorf, a graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee University, drawing his thoughts
from Acts 11:1-8, told how easy it is for the
Volunteers to give money and pray for the
foreign missions and disregard local prob-
lems. “Distance lends enchantment.” He
said that we are to begin right here on the
campus to stand for what is absolutely right.
“Do the fellows know by what we do and
how we act whether we are real Christians
or not? Do we ‘stoop to conquer?’” He
told them to stand firmly for Christ.’

Louis Schenck, an alumnus of Davidson,
emphasized consecration, “When we have
that deepest communion with Him, every-
thing else springs from it.2 John Knox,
Whitefield, Finney, Livington and .all -the
other great Christian spiritual powers were
great men in prayer. Schenck told of a man
after seeing Martin Luther spend a night in
prayer, tell some conspirators that he did not
think they could overcome his plans, Schenck
quoted men from the Bible who were pray-
erful and then pointed out their consequently
powerful lives.

Guy Weeks, the leader, then asked the
other two gentlemen if they had anything
they wished to add. Mr. Patterson, an
alumnus of Washintgon and Lee, remarked :
“There is nothing as great as taking the
gospel to foreign people, but a man must be
a spiritual power here or he will not become
one by changing climates.”

Mr. Woods, a graduate of Davidson, said
that we must consecrate our lives first, then
everything else will come. “If we are’not
whole-heartedly interested in the proposi-
tion ourselves, how can we interest others ?”

D.
1

MILTON AND GREEN
VISIT TROUTMAN

Last Sunday a deputation composed of
Ernest Milton, from the Christian Endeavor
training class, and J. L. Green, from the
Volunteer Band, visited Troutman. Both
made helpful and inspiring talks at a com-
bined meeting of the young people’s societies
of the town.

Milton gave a brief outline of the history
and principles of Christian Endeavor, em-
phasizing the fundamental principle of loy-
alty to Christ. By many illustrations, the
rewards of a life devoted ‘to Christian ideals
were presented.

Green’s appeal took the form of a call to
definite service in some kind of Christian
work. He brought out clearly the point that
only by adopting a plan for his life could a
man accomplish the most good for God and
humanity. Both talks deeply impressed the
"young people present.

On Monday the two men spoke at the
schoolhouse. Green talked of planning for a
college education, while yet in high school.
He stated that the best fields of service were
open to well-educatéd men alone.- Then the
challenge of the church was forcefully pre-
sented. Milton, following up Green’s talk,
explained the importance of having a specific
purpose in preparing for the future and what
a college education really means.

Next week deputations from the Christian
Endeavor training class will visit Kannapolis
and Barium Springs.

Y. M. C. A. BEGINS TO
SEND OUT DEPUTATIONS

One of the main/ features of the rengious
activities are the deputations sent out each

way and from all indications many deputa-
tions will be sent out this year.

Last Saturday afternoon Harry Russell,
Leroy Burney and Frank Johnson left for
‘the mission school at Glade Valley, under the
auspices of the Y. M. C. A. This schoo! is
under the care of the Southern Presbyterian
Church, and the fact that Frank Johnson is
an alumnus of this institution gives us an
idea of the fine work being carried on there.

This year the Y. M. C. A. has three main
goals toward which it is striving in its depu-
tation work. These are “High School Prob-
lems,” “College Problems” and “Vocational
Guidance.” All of these are subjects of vital
importance to the high school student.

Other deputations are sent out from time
to time by the Volunteer Band, Ministerial
Band and the Christian Endeavor training
class, It is the purpose of the Y. M. C. A,
however, that their deputations shall not
overlap those of the other organizations,
thus the work will be carried on in a more
extended field.

The Glade Valley deputation is the first
one sent out by the “Y” this year and marks
the beginning of what promises to be a great
year of work of this ‘nature.

D.

FACILITIES INCREASED
FOR WATER AND HEAT

Indications are that there will be more
than holidays to be thankful for Thanksgiv-
ing. An increased water supply is already
evident, and a look inside the new heating
plant enables one to believe that, as the con-
tractors state, the new system will be ready
for trial during the! ‘Thanksgiving holidays.

Within the last week two wells have been
cleaned out and put back into use—pump-
jacks with individual motcrs were installed
on each well, These two wells supply an ad-
ditional two gallons of water, per minute.

‘The new heating plant is beginning to take
on an aspect of reality. The two big, boilers
are fitted out, the stgam pumps have been
installed and the connections look like every
new device known has been attached. The
contractor states that final connections to the
radiator systems which are already installed
will be made at once and the boilers will be
fired up for testing the last of next week.

The ditches will remain cpen for some
time yet, however, as packing must be put
on the pipes after it is seen that the system
will not have to he altered. Possibly when
we return in the spring everything will have
been straightened out—and the place won't
he recognized.

PHYSICS DEPARTMENT IS
INCREASING EQUIPMENT

Davidson has always had a very excellent
Physics department but during thé, past few
months the efficiency of the laboratory has
been greatly augmented. This is due to,a
variety of new equipment. While in the pro-
cess of construction large, brick piers were .
set up under the floor for the purpose of
strengthening the building so that it might
easily bear the weight of the motors and
heavy machinery. Recently, electricians
placed a very flexible wiring system in the
building so that the students are now able
to use both a 220 and a 110 volt current,
transformed from a current of 2300.

Six new motors and generators have been
added to the equipment and also three motor-
generator sets. Large quantities of smaller
apparatus for the basic course, such as gal-
vanometers, ammeters volt-meters, watt-
meters, gold-leaf electroscopes, inclined
planes, Wheatstone bridges and electro-mag-
nets have also been received. All of these
models have been of the latest design. :

‘The Sophomores are now fully equipped
for a course in mechanics, heat, light, sound,
electricity and magnetism. The Juniors and
Seniors will soon have a modern X-Ray out-
fit. This department-is being well cared for
and. both Doctor Douglas and his corps’ of
assistants” are: “Sener severe “to” a-great

year to various-parts of the State. At rl
Present tirtje this work has just gotten under

.

year of instructive work,

\
