THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

Religions

Activities

ANNEX FOR CHURCH IS

UNDER CONSTRUCTION

The old men of Davidson coming back this
year have found among the other improve-
ments made during the summer that an ad-
dition is being made to the church. All of
them will remember the crowded condition
at church services last year, and the need
for it even then. With the assurance of a
larger student body for '22-’23 a committee
was apointed to decide on a remedy. They
were divided at first, some preferring a
balcony to an annex. However, the annex
was finally agreed upon, since the structure
of the church is not such that a balcony
could be easily installed.

Work was begun in time to have had it
finished by the time school opened this fall,
but the strike interfered with the shipments
of material. Work is progressing slowly,
and it will take some time to finish it.

} pote

Y. M. C. A. ISSUES HAND
BOOK OF INFORMATION

The Davidson College handbook was re-
ceived by the old and.néw men on their
arrival, The handbook this year has an
attractive red cover with a black D upon it.

All information necessary for the well
being of the new men is contained in this
little handbook. - The constitution printed
therein can be easily referred to and it is
mainly for the Freshmen, that they may
early become acquainted with the laws of
old Davidson.

The different college organizations are
given ample space for rosters.. Many
changes recently made in college activities,

necessary for every student to know, are
here printed.

. There are plenty of handbooks and every
student should now be in possession of one
of them.

Arnett Gamble is responsible for the suc-
cessful apearance of the handbook. He
was chosen by the College Y. M. C. A. to
edit*the manual, this being done during the
summer months.

D.

FOUR MISSION SUNDAY
SCHOOL LEADERS NAMED

Again the students of Davidson have taken
up the work of conducting Sunday Schools
at the different points nearby.

At the present time all Superintendents
and Teachers have not been named. A
partial list follows:

William T. Baker—Mill.

-M. P. Calhoun—Oak Grove.

H. Morris—Brawley’s

W. P. Brown—Cornelius,

All persons desiring to help in this work,
especially with the music, are requested to
notify Pat Crawford, Buck Currie or Harry
Russel.

D.

MINISTERIAL BAND PLAN
A GET-TOGETHER FEED

Bill Baker welcomed all the old and new
men and set forth the ideals of the Min-
isterial Band for the year in the first meeting
of the band, S@iday, at 1:45 p. m., in Shearer
Hall.

To promote fellowship amog the members
of the band Bill got a movement started to
learn each other’s first names, and announced

a feed for Saturday night. He stressed
prayer as the foundation of the success of
the band, and announced that a mid-week
prayer meeting, lasting for thirty minutes,
would be started, the prayers of which are
to be centered upon those in college who
have not decided upon a life work, and upon
the country in general, that more men go
into the ministry.

Baker also mentigned visiting the sick in
the infirmary, and making friends with the
new men on the compus as a few of the
activities of the band for this year.

The meeting closed with a signing of the
pledge cards by the old men and many new
ones also,

D.
1

MAC RICHARDS SPEAKS
TO MINISTERIAL BAND

The first meeting of the Student Volunteer
Band was held at 9 o’clock Sunday morn-
ing instead of at the regular hour of ten
o'clock, due to the seating arrangement that
had to be made at the church, Consequently
the attendance was small. However, the
meeting was a good one.

L. P. Burney led the meeting, and after
a few matters of business were dispensed
with by the president, Mac Richards, a
member of the class of ’22, spoke on the
responsibility and opportunities of the Band.
Mac brought out the need of Freshmen for
the right kind of friends, stating that a
student's ideals are formed largely during
his freshman year, and therefore the vol-
unteers should do special work among the
Freshmen,

Barney then talked a few minutes on the
various tasks that lie ahead for this year
and how best to accomplish them.

D.

Pride is a wonderful quality when it aids
us to conceal our hurts and prevents us from
hurting others.—Selected. i

Which Type of Research 3

is of Greatest Value?

A stove burns too much coal. A man familiar with the princi-
ples of combustion and heat radiation makes experiments which
indicate desirable changes in design. That is research.

You want to make a ruby in a factory, a real ruby, indistin-
guishable by any test from the natural stone. You begin by
analyzing rubies chemically and physically. Then you make
rubies just as nature did. Your rubies are the result of research
—another type of research.

While melting up your chemicals and experimenting with high
temperatures, you begin to wonder how hot the earth must
have been millions of years ago, and what were the forces at play
that made this planet what it is. Your investigation leads you
far from rubies and causes you to formulate theories to.explain
how the earth, how the whole solar system was created. That
would be research of a still different type.

Research of all three types is conducted in the laboratories of
the General Electric Company. But it is the third type—pio-
neering into the unknown—that means most in the long run,
even though undertaken with no:practical benefit in view.

For example, the Research Laboratories of the General Elec-
tric Company are exploring matter with X-rays in order to dis-
cover not only how the atoms in different substances are
arranged but how the atoms themselves are built up. The more
you know about a substance, the more you can do with it.
: This work may enable scientists to answer more definitely the
question: Why is iron magnetic? Then the electrical industry
will take a greater step forward than can be made in acentury ~
of experimenting with existing electrical apparatus.
You can add wings and stories to an old house. But to build a
-new house, you must begin with the foundation.

General@Electric

GRID GROWLS

With the falling of the leaves—the College
student invitably turn his mind football ward.

This year Old Davidson has the greatest
enrollment of students in her history. Out
of the multitude more than a Hundred have
answered to the call of the “pig skin” and
are now working faithfully under a hot
September sun to get in shape for the foot-
ball season which opens with Elon here on
Saturday.

Of course the varsity haven gets the first
consideration and by the way there is a
merry fight on for most of the eleven first
positions. Coach Grey has indeed a wealth
of material this year and no doubt the Wild-
cat Clan will be greater this year than for
many years past.

But what about these other four score and
ten men who work so hard, and are not
favored by being chosen for a position on
the varsity? These men are the losers, in
most every instance, but not so this year.
The scrubs’ work shall not be in vain. A
schedule has been arranged which ought to
satisfy any Wildkitten’s desire.

Besides having the usual games with the
freshmen teams of N. C, State and the
University, several other good trips, ranging
all the way from Wilmington to Columbia,
S. C., have been arranged. Games with
strong high school elevens of the state are
also pending.

Coach Grey was not able to put out a
freshman team this year, but the scrub
teams will no doubt be adorned with many
first year men.

The schedule as arranged by Manager
Hugh Smith is as follows:

University of §. C. at Columbia, S. C.

N. C) State at Pinehurst, N.C. .

University of N. C. at Pinehurst, N. C.

Clemson College at Clemson, §. C.

Wilmington Light Infantry at Wilming-
ton, N. C.

--———-D)
YOUNG PEOPLI?S CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 1)

young ladies and the lady teachers and coun-
cillors. ‘The gentlemen speakers and coun-
cilors and the young men in attendance oc-
cupied the Barracks and the large room at
the Gym.

Including the Davidson students there
were cighty-four young men in attendance,
twice as many as had been expected. There
were a hundred and fifty-nine young ladies
present. Besides these there were some
thirty-five or forty faculty members, coun-
cillors, and visitors present. Miss Shumaker’s
table accommodations were taxed but every-
one taken care of after several extensions
of the accommodations. Groupings by Pres-
byteries were arranged for the meal times
and many songs, yells, and jokes enlivened
these occasions.

The class work was handled in six groups:
Two Bible classes, under Dr. J. M. Wells
of Columbia Seminary and Mrs. S$. H. Askew

of Decatur, Ga.; a class on Stewardship,
under Rey, Danicl Iverson of Charlotte; one
on Tlome Missions, under Miss Eleanor

Berry of Atlanta; one on Foreign Missions,
under Miss Matthews of Korea and one on
Sunday School work, under Miss Virginia
Nourse of the Asseinbly’s ‘Training School
at Richmond, ‘Thése were all exceedingly
well conducted and interesting.

Dr. Samuel Glasgow of Knoxville, con-
ducted the vespers cach evening on the
campus-and-delivered. stirring messages at
these and the Sunday evening service. ‘The
evening services during the week were ad-
dressed, among others, by Dr. Walter Lingle,
Dr. Henry Sweets, and Rev. W. B. Guerrant
of Heidelberg, Kentucky. Mr. Frank Wil-
son, Christian Endeavor ficld secretary, spoke

one morning and conducted a general con-}

ference on Christian Endeavor methods.

Edwin (Bishop) McClure of the David-
son Class of 1920, as president of the State
Conference, conducted the daily conference
hours. Toward the close of the weck of
meetings Wilson (Coach) Moore, of the
Class of 1922, was elected the new president
of the state organization.

The concensus of opinion was that the
Davidson Conference was the best of those
that had been held, and it was decided to
hold the Conference at Davidson again next
summer.

dite |j) pala ae

The Freshmen

(Producing a complete rotation
grave of J. Greenleaf Whittier.)
Blessings on thee little chap
With your cuning little cap,
Freshman ‘green, with aching heart
Had to from thy mother part,
Saddly trudging on to class;
‘Chased by Sophomores off the grass—
You are better off then they—
You haven't léarned their blatant way!

in the

“BUCK” CURRIE SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

portant lessons which we as college men may
learn from a consideration of this book,”
said Buck. ‘“Mordecair’s question, ‘And who
knowest whether thou are come to the king-
dom for such a time as this,’ challenges the
manhood of every man.”
After giving a bricf resume of the first
four chapters of Esther, the speaker showed
wherein the tempations which came to Esther
are similar to ours today. The first of
Esther’s tempations was that of slothfulness.
About fifty per cent of the unsolved problems
of college life are due to slothfulness. Second
was the temptation of selfishness, Many sins
leap from the germ, selfishness. Too many
men are looking out for themselves only.
The man who really succeeds is the one who
looks out for others. Third is the tempta-
tion of doing the easiest thing—that of fol-
lowing the course of least resistance. Fol-
lowing the line of least resistance makes
crocked rivers and crooked men.
The entire talk was pervaded by a spirit
of directness and earnestness which was felt
by all in the audience,

The attendance was unusually good.

Ted Jones led the singing in an excellent
style. He also sang a solo.

The service was presided over by Pat
Crawford, president of the Y. M. C. A.

Kach student was requested to sign a slip
stating what Y. M. C. A. activities he wishes
to engage in during this year.

D.

SPECIAL COURSES OFFERED
(Continued from Page 1)

There were about twenty enrolled for the
summer courses.

The Synod of North Carolina out of
pity for these poor lonesome lads held a
Young People’s Conference here to keep
them from being too homesick. The Con-
ference furnished entertainment for one
week and helped Mr. Cranford’s business
for several more.

In about four weeks Professor L. M.
Currie and his fast working cohorts finished
up their course and left. About this time
the Physics class dwindled from three
members to one, and Sophomore French
started with three hopeful would-be lin-
guists.

The, departure of the Mathematics ‘class
cut the student body down to a_ baker's
dozen butefwo guitars, two banjos, a man-
dolin, and a mouth organ kept up sufficient
entertainment.

In addition to the daily and nightly con-
certs there were expeditions to Mooresville
and Charlotte. Some even ventured as far
as Shelby and Hendersonville. A search
for cats and rabbits helped the “bug class”
to while away the time.

Taken all in all it was a pleasant six
weeks although it was far from ,the “six
weeks houseparty without chaperones,” that
the name summer school suggests.
pyaar

My Roomie

It has been my misfortune to have been
endowed with a peculiarly contrary room-
mate,

He professes a great liking for my cigar-
ettes and consequently helps himself when-
ever he feels so inclined. He is also lately
consciousless when it comes todborrowing my
stationery. [le has the peculiarly irritating
habit of contradicting every statement that
Timake.

He has a way of borrowing large sums
at regular intervals, but for all of that T
also lately couldn't do without him. THe
wears the same size shirt that IT do,

° - I)

Boy’s Composition on Girls

Girls is the only folks that has their own
way every time. Girls is of several thousand
kinds, and sometimes one girl can be like
several thousand’ other girls if she wants
to do anything. Girls is alike one way, and
they are all like cats. If you rub ‘em. the
right way of the hair theyll purr and look
sweet at you, but if you rub ’em the wrong
way or step on their tails they'll claw you.
So long as you Iect a girl gave her own way
she’s nice and sweet, but just cross her and
she'll ‘spit at you worse nor a cat. Girls
is also like mules. If a girl don't want to
believe anything you can’t make her. If
she knows it’s so she won't say so, brother
George says he doesn't like big girls but he
does like little ones, and when 1 saw him
kissing Jennie Jones last Sunday, and told
him of what he’d said, he said he was a
biting her ‘cause he didn’t like her, I think
he hurt her, for she hollered and ruy, and
there was a big red spot all over both of
her two cheeks. This is all I know about
girls, and father says the less 1 know ‘about
them the better off I am.” iy

hc siaitntetaraaaaan a
