4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

rth Carolin Collegiate Press Association
we os Southern Collegiate Préss Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15 ;
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: oe
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

ann nen ae-a---Editor-in-Chief --Forum Editor
\ 7 GAMBLES JiR Managing Editor aenrteae etal
H. H. SMITH..-: Managing Editor -¥. M,C. A. Editor
Ke CANIS my anid Editor . ---Literary Editor
& © SOMMER Nlumni_ Editor PERG wcctevscucaiss Publicity Editor

-Alum O|
J. H. McKEITHEN

REPORTERS’ CLUB

b FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADEORD, Woz. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. I: ee
BROWN, C.'V. HESTON W. M. MORRIS, Hi, M. Scc.-Treas.
CALHOUN, M, P. ONES, KR. R TULLER, C 4
COX, W. M. KNOX, W. I. WALTHALL, D
ELKINS, L. D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

RB

. C, WOOL
L, A. TAYLOR, E, T. wooLFoLK and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

i i Assi n Circulati Depar :
ie tLe . C. FAIN P, C, HENDERSON
NO Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Who said the Wildcats weren’t wild?
D
Those students who still hold to the ground-hog theory of weather
prediction are having a hard time explaining the balmy days of the last
week-end.

: D
The results of the campaign for Hangchow College are very grati-
fying so far. Let’s carry it through to a still better conclusion,
D
“Don’t feel sorry for yourself. Feel sorry for the folks who live
with you.”

D
The musical clink of horseshoes and the thud of horsehide on
leather are common sounds on the campus these afternoons. Spring

must certainly be on the way.
D.

Do you ever stop to think that the man who hasn’t a definite pur-
pose in college is not very apt to have one in later life?
; D
Make good.

D.

For the second time in as many years Davidson has had the pleas-
ure of entertaining a delegation from Columbia Seminary, and we wish
to take this opportunity of expressing our appreciation of their interest.
The songs by the quartette were thoroughly enjoyed by all who heard
them sing, the services held by these men were indeed of an inspiring
nature, and the impression which they have left on the campus will be
felt for many a day to come. May we have the pleasure of. many
more such visits.

Don’t make excuses.

‘ D
“Success comes in cans. Failures in can’ts.”
D.

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BAND.

GREAT deal has been said in the columns of The Davidsonian
A about the Wildcats and their deeds of valor. Football, basket-

ball, baseball, and track have all come in for their share of pub-
licity, and the stars of each sport have been lauded in turn, Even the
lowly scrubs have received their just share of the praise, and comments
on the work of our cheer leaders have not been lacking. This has been
deservedly the case, and we do not feel that any less honor could right-
fully have been paid these men. There is one body of men which has
not received any recognition it has so richly merited, however, and it is
to draw. the student body’s attention to their services that this editor-
ial is written.

Do you ever stop to think what a difference it would make in the
spirit of our rooters, and the corresponding change in the morale of our
teams if the college band were not there? .No, because by the very faith-
fulness “with which it has played at all athletic contests it has made
its presence a matter of fact occurrence. The band is always on hand
to increase the pep of rooters and players alike by its rendition of the
college songs, and to entertain with other music at the times of least
excitement. It is largely through its endeavors that the-enthusiasm of
the’students is kept at the highest pitch on these occasions,

Such results were. not attained without effort. The average man
looks on without thinking of the long hours of practice spent by the
band members in preparation for this work, and of the effort required to
learn such music as is rendered. He does not think of the fact that
even while the game is going on the band is working while he is free
to watch every play that is made. Indeed, he seems to take it for
granted that the playing of a musical instrument is a gift acquired
without trouble and a natural pleasure to the musician. : :

A little thought should be enough to convince any one of the ab-
surdity of such a belief. These men are showing the real Davidson
spirit of unselfish service, and their- work demands Tecognition. Hats

Another complains that

off to the Wildcat Band!

on

Open Forum’

“WHY?”

This year there have béen more fail-
ures than in any previous year of the
college. Not just a few more. The aver-
age number has not been raised just a
little but there have been failures by
the wholesale, if you please.

Some men have failed in every ticket
they are carrying. Others have failed
in all but one, and many have failed in
half their tickets. Fellows, “these things
ought not so to be.”

It is true that more Freshmen than
upper-classmen failed, but are they al-
together to blame?

One man, a man who is making good
in his work, has said that the faculty
should have remembered that since
Chambers burned we have been crowded
to the extent of inconvenience, and
should have been more lenient with us.
things seem
harder "thin usual this year, instead of
casier. = ;

But can the faculty afford to lower the
standards just because we are crowded?
Are they to-blame for all the failures
or even for any of them?
not.

5
No, they are
Then why all these failures?

Only one answer can be made: a lack
of study on the part of the so-called
students.

But how is a man to study in a crowd-
ed dormitory? All the rooms in the
building are not crowded and where men
are studying they are: glad enough to
have another man join them. Then, too,
ithas been arranged that the class rooms
in Shearer Hall may be used as study
halls by those seeking a quiet place.

An allusion was made to the large
number of the new men who failed this
term. They looked to the upper-class-
men and patterned: after them in form-
ing their habits of study and leisure, and
from them they learned that wonderful
science of “bull artistry.”

Fellows, that is our besetting sin. Can
we estimate the amount of work which
might have been done in those hours
and evenings which we have spent at
this most pleasant pastime?

For our own and our neighbor's good,
let's eliminate some of this “bull” and
cither go to work carly every night, or
to bed—or “Minnies,” when we are not
studying. A. B. Artist.

Every individual who makes any
headway in his chosen field must
struggle against the current.

The fact that a man is a success
does not indicate that he has never
chanced to meet adverse condi-
tions, but that he met and
overcome ‘them numberless times
and is always ready for the com-
bat. is

The only people who do not en-
counter these difficulties in their
work are those who fail when
they reach them and drift and
drift along in the tide with the
debris.

has

We cannot train to overcome ad-
verse conditions by shying around
them. If we could there wouldn’t
be near as much room at the top
of the ladder—Selected.

TIME TO RECEIVE ANNUAL
DRAWS NEARER DAY BY DAY

The of the 1922 Quips and
Cranks have been working industriously
on the annual during the days since ex-
aminations. The typewritten copy work
is nearing completion and many other
details are being finished. The annual
will be here about the middle of May,
it is thought at present. All of the ma-
terial will be in the hands of the pub-
lishers, within the next few days.

W. I. Knox was in Greensboro and
Winston-Salem, and R. K. Shaw and R.
L. McLeod were in Charlotte during the
past week soliciting ads for the annual.

D.

Reports to the Association of Amer-
ican Colleges show that there has been
an-increase of 50 per cent in the salaries
of presidents and faculty members since
1913-1914.

editors

1p aan

LD.

The Chinese Students Christian Asso-
ciation in North Ameriéa has about 1,500
members. The student Y. M. C. A. in

China” has’/174 associations .and 19,000
members, -

| With Other Colleges

Panree Y. W. C. A. ENTERTAINS
WITH VALENTINE PARTY

| ee

| Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 15—The Y. W.
|C. A. entertained the student body at a
Valentine Party on Saturday evening,
| February 1th. Valentine decorations
were used and many novel games were
jplayed. The Y. W. C. A..always enter-
|tains the boarders several times each
| year and this was the annual Spring en-
| eertainent: The party was in every
| way a big success.

D.
LENOIR WILL DEBATE ELON.

Hickory, N. C,, Feb. 15—Lenoir Col-
| lege has entered the inter-collegiate de-
|bating field and is to meet Elon ‘about
| Easter. The speakers for Lenoir are:
Messrs. J. D. Tickle, J. L. Norris, E. R.
Lineberger, and H. J. Rhyne, of the
Chrestonian Society.

D
DR. WHALING AT QUEENS.

Charlotte, N. C, Feb. 15.—Rev. Dr.
Thornton Whaling, of Louisville Semi-
nary, will make several talks to the
student body this week. Dr. Whaling is
well known all over the South. He has
had wide experience as an educator,
first as professor Of Philosophy in the
Southwestern Presbyterian University,
then as professor of Theology in Colum-
bia Seminary. At present he is profes-
sor of Systematic Theology and Apolo-
getics at the Presbyterian Theologica’
Seminary at Louisville, Ky.

D
UNIQUE LECTURE AT MEREDITH.

Raleigh, N. C, Feb. 15.—Mr. C. C.
Gorst, eminent nature lover, lectured to
the Meredith faculty and students on
Saturday evening, February 4th, on the
subject of “Birds.” This was an espe-
cially interesting and unique lecture, Mr.
Gorst imitating perfectly the songs and
calls of many species of birds. He also
gave two very charming whistling solos.
D
ODDS AND ENDS.

Meredith—In order to replenish the Y.
W. C. A. treasury, an up-to-date tea
room has been opened in one of the “Y”

| rooms,

Meredith—A “Math” Club has recently
been! organized under the direction of
Prof. KE. F. Canady, head of the “Math”
Department. This is the third - club
formed this year for the purpose of giv-
ing the advanced students opportunity
todo profitable as well as interesting re-
search work, the others being a Chemis-
try Club and a Classical Club.

Meredith—The work on “The Oak
Leaves,” the Meredith annual, is rapidly
Nearing completion. It will go to the
press in a few days.

D.
INTERESTING DOPE ON STADIUMS.

American . universities which have
completed athletic stadiums within the
decade, or have provided for their con-
struction, include California, Ohio State,
Yale, Illinois, Stanford, Chicago, Wash-
ington, Princeton, Kansas, Pittsburgh,
and the City College of New York. Of
these, Yale’s stadium cost $400,000 and
Seats 70,000; Washington spent $600,000
and can seat 60,000; California is spend-
ing $900,000 to seat 60,000 ; Illinois is plan-
ning a combined stadium: and amphi-
theater to cost $2,500,000; and Ohio State
raised $1,250,000. No stadium yet com-
pleted has been large enough to meet
the immediate: demand for seats. These
facts, together with the recent discussion
by President Lowell, of Harvard Uni-
versity, on the relationship of inter-col-
legiate athletics to the university, indi-
cate two opposite trends which are like-
ly to clash in the future—(I. P. A. N.S.)

D.
WOULD IT WORK HERE?

In its successful campaign for a new
stadium, the University of California put
itself-in the situation, not of asking for
donations but of selling seats in the
stadium for the next ten years. The
unit of payment to the stadium fund was
$100, each cash payment purchasing $100
in scrip, redeemable’ in Stadium tickets
at-the rate of $10.00 for the next ten
years.—(I. P. A. N.S.)

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

THAT ALL-AMERICAN TEAM.

Our choice for the 1921 “All-American”
football eleven is:

L. E.—Tube ‘of Colgate.

L. T.—Stick of Williams.

L. G—Duell of Hamilton,

C.—Gang of Tufts.

R. G—Bust of Lafayette.

R. E.—Eyes of Brown.

R. T.—Graves of Washington and Jef-
ferson,

Q. B.—Tomb of George Washington.

L. H.—Hart of Maryland.

R. H.—Purchase of Louisiana.

I, B.—District of Columbia.

—Hamilton Life.
D

Every state in-the Union, Alaska, Ha-
waii, Porto Rico, the Philippine Islands,
and 42 foreign countries are represented
this year among Harvard’s 6,073 stu-
dents, according to figures made public
by the university.

D.
State College, Pa., Jan. 26.—Page the
oldest football rooter in captivity
He is Andy Lytle, retired farmer, who
has spent his entire life thus far on his
farm adjacent to State College. Andy is
82 years of age and is still going strong.
Always an ardent football fan, Andy
Started to follow the fortunes of the
Penn State eleven back in 1887, 34 years
ago, when the only trip was to Lewis-
burg, 50 miles away, where Bucknell was
played. He has made nearly all the trips
since that time, reaching the pinnacle in
1912, when he traveled over 6,000 miles
in following the team,
D.
DELIVER US—

From the Glad Girl Philosophy.

From birds who feel it necessary, every
time a victrola plays, to glide about the
room embracing some imaginary beauty.

From party calls by bootleggers.

From poems scattered through movie
magazines,

From cloth-top shoes. '

From conceited imbeciles who admire
the pathetic philosophy of “I am the
master of my fate.”

From pictures of bathing beauties.

From empty mail boxés, ;

From impromptu visits by ministers
and book agents.

From Great Goats who are continually
quoting from Fitzgerald, Service, and
Oscar Wilde,

From bills in general.

From women who recite poetry.

From women who can’t.

From scrawny women.

From fat women.

From beautiful women.

From all women.

From all mention of women.

From litanies such as this.

Ah, men!
—Yale Record.
D.
We laugh at the prof’s jokes,
No matter what they be,
Not because they’re funny jokes,
But out of policy.
—The Student.

Sing a sing of six-pence,
Have ambition or dic;

To try to grow a mustache,
Our daring young boys try.

When many weeks are over
And people have the stares,
For on the Youth’s upper lips
Are about seven sickly little hairs.
—Selected.

“Ever study a blotter?”
“No, foolish.”
“Very absorbing thing.”
—The Lawrentian.
D
The U. S. government maintains 135
schools in Alaska with an expenditure
of about a half million dollars and an
etrollment of 6,899.

TD.

R. C. Aiken, of the class of ’22, who has
been out of school for the past year on
account of ill health, has re-entered. for
the coming term.
