4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 715
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson Collége.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 ‘Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F, DAVIDSON........+.++ Editor-in-Chied H. H. SMITH............-.-.Forum Editor
L. D. ELKIN: ., First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN. +...Campus Editor
W. M. -Second Managing Editor . H. OGD. Y.M. . Editor
R. R. JONES... Assignment Editor Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE. Athletic Editor iterary Editor
Cc. F. WILDMA -Alumni_ Editor ...Press Editor
W. M. COX......-
9
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres. ONES, J. R. MOFFETT, A. N.
SMITH, 'R. H., Vice-Pres. TONES, K R. OORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. NOX, W. I. LOSS, H. M.
ALLISON, J. LACY, T. A. PRICE, H. B.
BITZER, R. McILWAINE, C. M. TULLER, oC. D.
CALHOUN, M. P. McIVER, D. D. WALTHALL, D. B.
BAT db Aen = HERRERA
FEW . . . H, »>A CG
nae WILLIAMS, J. M.

Special Reporters for this Iseue Are:

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

W. J. COOPER... ... Business Manager 2
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. Divig, G. BE. WEE: G. GUILLE........Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCCAIN........Circulatioh Manager S. C. FAIN.......

Assistants in Circulation Department
E. THROWER E. Cc. MOOMAW

..- Asst. Circulation Mgr.

R. B. LILES J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

It is with deep sorrow that we of the student body have learned of the
fecent bereavement of R. W. Graves and of L. D. Elkins, We know that the
hearts of everyone go out to these men in their misfortune. By this simple
word we wish to express to them, the one who has lost his father and the one
who has lost his brother, the sympathy of the entire student body.

D:

Wildcats, we are for you strong through thick and thin. If Davidson can’t
win every time, certainly our spirit need not fall. Success will seem even bet-
ter when it comes.

Once more tradition held true, and the terrible Sophs conquered the Fresh
in their annual fall baseball game. What Freshmen team will ever have the
courage to do their very best in such a situation?

D:

Now that we have become used to doing without rain, how are we ever
going to get accustomed once more to real Davidson weather. The months of
steady rain which we always have will give us so much water that we’ll all feel
like we are swimming.

D
In the interest of the management of the moving picture shows, in fact of
the student body itself, we want to say a word here’ against a habit that has
been recently growing up at the movies. This is the custom that men in the
gallery have of throwingslighted cigarette butts down upon those below. It is
hardly necessary to mention the evils that will.result from this, since we all
realize that it is being done thoughtlessly. However, everyone can readily see
the harm that will be done the basketball floor just as the season is starting.
This act, also, is really dangerous to the men upon whom these lighted
cigarettes fall. We certainly don’t want to bring troubles upon the men giving
us the movies, fellows, so let’s cut this out!
D.

DAVIDSON DAY IN CHARLLOTTE

‘AA LL who went down to Charlotte Monday have just the feelings that we

have, a most pleasant, profitable and. significant day. Those who failed to

get there for any. reason have missed a treat. From the time that the

train left Davidson at 7 that morning until the last car got back that evening,
every minute was filled with pleasure and enthusiasm.

There are no adequate words with which the men of Charlotte can be
thanked for what they did for us. Our appreciation has been expressed to
them already, but its effects will be lasting, plainly visible here in the years to
come, Indeed the thoughts that were expressed in the speeches that day cannot
fail to accomplish the result we all want, a closer co-operation between Char-
lotte and Davidson.

D.
A DISTINCTION WORTHWHILE

I) AVIDSON is a college that has qtite-a wide reputation, and especially
is she noted for the men of ability she sends each year from her doors into
practically all the fields of endeavor. To train men of this calibre, it is
evident that our curriculum has to be of a high standard, and the fact that this
is undoubtedly the case is a source of pride to us.
The Phi Beta Kappa Society, which recognizes and rewards outstanding ef-
_ forts of those working earnestly in their persuit of knowledge, is one in which
‘membership is highly prized all over the country. Certainly it is fitting that
men at Davidson should have the opportunity to gain access to membership in
this society. To make this possible, a determined effort has been made for a
number of years to bring a chapter here and now this effort has met with
| There is nothing that could give a man a greater incentive to work and try
- to excel in the studies than the prospect of: wearing. the Phi Beta Kappa key.
‘In afte r life it is ‘a thing that speaks for itself as practically nothing else can

aad of the society to Davidson, there should come, also, a
An scholastic effort, with every man striving to win a key. —

Thoughtlessness

For quite a while there has been a few
thoughtless boys at our weekly picture
shows, who think it is fumny to throw burn-
ing cigarette butts down from the gallery
on the heads of the audience below. In the
first place the Y. M. C. A. has requested that
there be no smoking at all in the gym during
the shows. There are always a large num-
her of ladies present who would rather that
you didn’t smoke there. Not one of us would
think of entering a public movie. theater with
a cigarette in his mouth. In the second
place our coaches have asked that no lighted
stubs be thrown on the basketball floor.
We have a good floor and should be proud
of it.

This is not an unreasonable request to
make of the student body. It is not an in-
fringement of your freedom or your per-
sonal rights. It is an appeal to your gen-
tlemanly instincts and your usual common
sense. DON QUIXOTE.

Wake Up

Where is that old Davidson spirit? that
never say quit spirt? the spirit that doesn't
get discouraged because we had a little hard
luck? Where is it? There seems to be a
lack of it just like there is a lack of water.
It. looks like the Davidson brand of pep was
built on water and now that it is running
a little short, the pep is also giving out.

What's the matter with everybody when
they are at a game? ‘There’s not as much
yelling there as the Georgia Club gave at
its feed the other night. Wake up! Show
a little life! If you think you haven't got a
team you haven’t got one. If the Davidson
student body wants to kill this year’s football
the best thing it can do is to keep’ up this air
uf pensive resignation that everybody as-
sumes when football is mentioned,

You have got a football team; you have a
team that you can make the best in the State
if you want to bad enough. But it is just as
much up to you to show a lot of pep as it is
to the team, and more so. No team is going
to fight when there is the measly spirit back-
ing it that was shown out here at the Elon
game. And what is worse the P. C. game
seems to have thrown cold chills over every
one to the extent that few have dared say
that it was just a spell of momentary hard
luck. Few consider that the team went down
to P. C. with the memory of the Elon game
in their minds; a game at which there was
no yelling, no pep, nothing. No, it isn’t the
Freshmen alone, it’s the upper classmen as
well; nobody opens his mouth. It’s like a
bunch of mutes at a game, but even mutes
would wave their hands or knock on the
seats, a

Wake up!—Show some life! Speak to
fellows when they pass you. “Have a good
word for a football man when he passes
yeu. Buck up your team. They have the
stuff in them and it is up to you to bring it
out. Don't mope around at a game or sit
tensely thrilled and softly murmur, “Press
forward Davidson.” Get out and yell till
your throat wears out and then keep on yell-
ing. It ayon't hurt if somebody stares at
you;—this means you, you upper classmen.
And as for the Fresh. You've come to col-
lege now. We've got a real school here
and real spirit too, and a d—n good team.
We've also got a vigilance committee which
is going to start working 24 hours a day
right now. You ought to yell to show that
you have the right stuff in you but if you
won't do that you had better yell because
the vigilance committee will get you if you
don't. ;

Show the team we're behind them and they
will do their hit.

An Appeal

You wearers of the royal toga, chosen
heads of Davidson activity, who are decom-
posing and passing into dust, turn over in
your spider-webbed. tomb of inactivity:
stretch your benumbed arms and give us one
long sepulchral cry. Let the students whom
you represent learn your whereabouts that
they might plant upon your barren graves a
lone forget-me-not.

The students of Davidson College are
about to lose a precious heirloom, something
handed down from student body to student
body in the past, that unconquerable thing
known as WILDCAT SPIRIT.

Will the leaders. of our campus activities
stand idly by and see a thing as noble as this
grand old institution of learning itself, pass
into oblivion? st

Where is that old spirit that held Wake
Forest on the last chalk line last year for
seven consecutive downs? Where is that
old fight that would not let the Tar Babies

cross our goal line? Where is the spirit that

Sate

EXCHANGES

The Way It Seemed to Her

A colored couple stood once again before
the probation officer.

“No, this,” the officer said to both, “seems
to be the case where there is nothing very
much the matter except that your tastes are
different. You, Sam, are much older than
your wife. It is a case of May married to
December.”

A slight pause, and then Eva, the wife,
was heard to remark ina tired voice: .

“I—I really don’t know what you means
by yer saying May is married to December.
If yer goin’ to talk that way, it seems to me
hit’s a case of Labor Day married to de Day
of Rest.”—Yellow Jaccket.

‘ Modern Art

“Here’s where I prove an artist
Without a brush,” he cried;
And drew a lovely maiden
Up closer to his side.
—American Legion Weekly.

Look Ahead

The future's all before you,
Look ahead ;

Let the past mistake’s not bore you,
Look ahead ;

Turn not backward eyes regretting;

Over what is done, vain fretting,

But your glare straightforward setting,
Look ahead.

Life’s of obstacles a jumble,
Look ahead;-—"
On which every step may stumble,
Look ahead ;
Tis a path you can’t go blindly,
With good luck to treat you kindly ;
Slips must always in your mind be,
Look ahead.

There’s no time for retrospection,

Look ahead;
If you do, fate makes detection,

Look ahead ;
When you've gained at what you're aiming,
Further progress keep of framing,
Make the future your own naming—

Look ahead!

—Baltimore American,
D.

BOOST

Boost your city, boost your friend;

Boost the lodge that you attend,

Boost the street on which you're dwelling
Boost the goods that you are selling,
Boost the people round about you,

They can get along without you,

But success will quicker find them

If they know that you're behind them.

Boost for every forward movement,
Boost for every new improvement,
Boost the man for whom you labor,
Boost the stranger and the neighbor,
Cease to be a chronic knocker,

Cease to be a progress blocker;

If you'd make your college better
Boost it to the final letter.

has heretofore made the campus hum with
activity ?

We can not say it is dead—a thing so im-
mortal! It lies dormant and no one seems
to be interested in its resurrection.

WAKE UP, YOU WHO ARE IN AU-
THORITY. There is no doubt but that you
will have a whole-hearted following, ‘The
new men, once they are properly enlightened
as to Davidson customs, will eagerly seek to
carry them out—but how few times they
have had the subject broached to them.

Not even a decent pep meeting has been
held. No one has appeared before a student
body meeting to praise the name of our Alma
Mater. How many—rather how few times
have the Freshmen heard the strain of “Col-
lege Ties,” or even “O Davidson!” How
meager have been their opportunities to prac-
tice the college yells.

“What is the trouble with Davidson?”
comes from the outside. Not until our lead-
ership steps from the rut and asserts itself
will we be able to send back “she’s all
right!”

Socrates held that an acknowledgment of
ignorance was the fundamental basis of the
acquirement of wisdom. By a direct appli-
cation of this bit of truth we might say that
an acknowledgement of a serious hitch in
Davidson activity, due to a lack of leader-
ship, is the first step toward the correction
of that evil. But that doesn’t get us far
enough. There must be some FIGHTING
and DIGGING, and active LEADERSHIP.

And the greatest of these is LEADER-

A STUDENT... -4-

COLLGE PHILOSOPHY—
GOOD AND OTHERWISE

The prophet of old proclaimed a wonder-
ful chemistry of life when he said: “A
merry heart doeth good like a medicine.”
And the great beauty of it is that it doeth
good not only for the self, but for the com-
panion, the friend and the neighbor.—
Technician.

Few girls can keep secrets; when they
learn that they have perfect figures they
dress in a manner that the world will get.
wise to their secrets.—Va. ‘Tech.

We often hear physicians say that women
have learned not to wear tight skirts Why
do they include the word tight?—Va. Tech.

The thing to remember is that the thought
is always parent to the act. There gets into
our lives by way of habit exactly what we
allow to get into them, and never more,
never less—Technician,

A female cynic is a college girl who hasn't
had any kisses.

Sometimes the girl who cannot be kissed
is the one whom someone always Kisses.

Boy (on train:) Buy Edgar A. Guest's
latest work, mister.

Man: I’m Edgar Guest himself.
Boy (unabashed): Then buy “Man in
Lower Ten.” You ain’t Mary Roberts

Rhinehart, are you?—The Salemite.

Electricity travels 11,600,000 miles a
minute. You would never guess, that it runs

the street cars—Maroon and Gold.
T).

CAMPUSISMS

Mrs. C. J. Freeland, of Crowley, spent
Friday here with her son, P. B. Freeland,
’25. She was on her way home from Ver-
mont where she has been visiting relatives.

The whole student body sympathizes with
Liston D. Elkin, '24, in his recent bereave-
ment, in the death of his 14-year-old brother,
which occurred at his home in Waycross,
Ga. He had been sick for a short time with
typhoid fever.

Among those spending the week-end off
the hill are Ted Koenig, John Ballard and
T. B. Brown, who took the foot-path to their
homes in Greensboro,

A MERRY DRAMA.

In Many Acts and Numberless
‘Scenes.

By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters: “Mack” Lennox, a rather
prominent senior; he prides himself on the
nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private
opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.

“Bill” Carroll, his room-mate and a no less
prominent junior; in matters of dress, his
taste is more conservative. and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage,
“Still water runs deep,” is applicable,

Act the Third
REFLECTION

Mack—Say, Bill, that was some trip those
Charlotte folks gave us.

Bill—Righto you are—sure was white of
them. Hope that they pull the same stunt
again next year.

Mack—Well, I won't be here, but for your
sake I hope they do. * * * * By the way,
Bill, think that I will write a note of thanks
to the owner of the car I went down in.
Better do the same.

Bill—Just like you—I sure will. Say
Mack—Did you get to look around the stores
much?

Mack—I did NOT, say if they didn't
have every minute in every hour crammed
I'll give “fifteen” for the new boarding house
rules. Figured that I would drift around to
Mellon’s and look at his fall suits but never
got a chance.

Bill—Me too, to that. Say what’s your
idea about buying clothes anyway?

Mack—Well to me the situation is just
about like this: The buying of a suit of
clothes is something of an investment—not
in a stock certificate. to be sure, but it’s an
investment and it should be an investment °
in good wear and good appearance. The
first cost will be a little more but—mark
what I say—cheap clothes are cheap in price
only. My motto is a good suit of good
make from a reputable dealer.

Bill—For instance: A good | Hart,
Schaffner & Marx mixture from a concern
like Ed Mellon. —

Mack—Exactly —(adv).

—€To~be-cohitinued néxt week.)
