4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. .

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Ww. Editor
Vv. A. GAMBLE, JR.-....... Managing Editor itor
H. i g 1 RO PTS MAUA iti} Editor ; jal
R. F. DAVIDSON. SL alias Heed as
i i i
x: & SOMME “Alumni Editor Editor

H. McKEITHEN.

REPORTERS’ CLUB

i b FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, we %. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C Vv, HESTON, W. M MORRIS, Hi. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. yay (eh RH.

. P. ONES, J. R. TULLER,. C. D.
coxa = e. [one hf R WALTHALL, D. B.
PDEs Bae Wk MEBMAN: t&
ELLIOTT, W. T.. LACY, TA 1 C.F,

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

t CraW OO Lassie ssiatuiccse Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD

sst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. DOUBLES...--.---- Circulation M Assi in Circulati Department:
LS) LL and C, D, TULLER * S.C. FAIN P. C. HENDERSON
tals Asst, Circulation Managers WATT ‘McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We hope it is not too late to wish all our readers a very happy New
Year.

b—_—_———-

Next Monday is to be dress-up day at Davidson as the photograph-
er will be here to take pictures of the student body on that date. Shaves
and hair-cuts are in order.

D

The popularity of Mr. Wilson is well attested by the fact that more
orders for copies of our Woodrow Wilson isstie poured in upon the man-
agement than it was able to fill, These requests came not only from
friends of the college, but from men and women who had no ties hold-
ing them to Davidson as well, Having read that the paper was to be
issued in honor of the great leader, they could not be satisfied without
possessing a copy of their own.

Nasal 0%

1D.
NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS

ERHAPS this subject may seem just a little out of date to most
Pp of our readers, “Two weeks ago,” you will say, “It woud have

been all right, but now. Oh, well, this is the time of year most of
us-are beginning to wonder just what_all: those good—resolutions—we
made on January Ist were anyway.” All very true, but since this is the
first paper we have issued in 1922, aid the subject a very good one, we
insist on our right, to make use of it. We shall limit ourselves to the
discussion of one resolution, however; that concerning attendance at the
weekly meetings of the Y. M. C. A.on Sunday nights.

This is the only religious meeting at Davidson which the student
body can claim as distinctively its own. Of course there are many other
gatherings of a religious nature on our campus, but nowhere else is there
an opportunity for the entire student body to Hold an assembly which is
strictly its own. Every effort has been made to rénder the programs for
these meetings attractive. Able speakers have been secured, and spe-
cial music together with the singing of gospel hymns are other espe-
cially enjoyable features, and yet the attendance is not what it should
be.

It is true that there has been agreat improvement over:the condi-
tions which prevailed in past years. Instead of a few score students
we now have from a half to two-thirds of the student body present, but
the showing is still poor by comparison with What it should be. Sucha
meeting as the one last Sunday when only 200 men turned out to hear
one of the best addresses of the year from our own secretary makes us
wonder, what is the matter. Why could not every one of us resolve to
become a regular attendant at these services, and see to it that. this
resolution, at least, is not broken?

D
THE FINAL CRAM.

Examinations are upon us. That dreaded period which seemed so
far off and unimportant in September is now close at hand and uppermost
in almost every mind. The schedule for all four classes has already
been posted and with this last uncertainty removed, the student body is
ready for one last desperate effort to fool the professors, and finish the
work of the first term with flyingcolors.

For the wise few who have studied hard all fall the approaching
crisis holds little to dread. Naturally they are somewhat uneasy lest
their grades fall a little lower than they might desire, but for them is no
real danger of failure. For others who have been less wise and less indus-
trious, however, the next few days will be of immense importance.
Upon their ability to grasp within a short period what they should have
learned in the months past will depend the success or failure of their
fall’s work. It should therefore be incumbent upon each individual to
see that so far as he is concerned every other man has ample opportunity
to do his studying. Simply because you have no desire to work your-
self, do not take it for granted that your neighbor has an equal inclina-
tion _to-idleness. The moments that mean so little to you may mean

the difference between passing andflunking to him. Give a little
thought to others.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The following exchanges may bring!
back to mind some of your thoughts and
actions during the holidays:

Propinquity.
He stood by her,
She stood by him;
His arm was long,
Her wattt.was slim;
You guess of course,
What happened then
(Girls will be girls,
Men will be men).
Since love is sweet,
And life is young;
What wonder they |
Together clung. |
And yet we hate to mar— |
They clung to straps |
In a crowded car. |
—Selected.

College Spirit.
Have you caught a new vision here?
Or has your sight not yet been clear?
It's natural to feel something new, |
A thing stirring up the best in you
That moulds character into the
brand
With a keener love and sympathy for
your fellow man,
Reach out for it and get into its breath-
ing,
worth the getting and
leaving
It’s the grand ole College Spirit you feel
Put willingness behind your motor and
it will turn the wheel. —Ex.
D
I DOUBT IT.

finest

It’s never the

When a pair of red lips are turned to
your own,

With no one to gossip about it.

Do you pray for endurance to let them
alone?

Maybe you do—but I doubt it.

When a sly little hand you're permitted
to seize,
With a velvety softness about,
Do you think you can drop it with never
“a squeeze?
Well, maybe you can—but I doubt it.

When a tapering waist is in reach of
your arm,

With a wonderful plumpness about it,

Do you argue the point twixt the good
and the harm?

Well, maybe you do—but I doubt it.

And if by these tricks you should cap-
ture a heart,
With a womanly sweetness about it,
Would you guard it and keep it-and
act the good part?
Well, maybe you will—but I doubt it.
—Ex.

D. °
MANAGING EDITOR’S FOUR INCHES

The last sentence in the article on}
Doctor Pettingill in the last issue was |
shown as the lead when the article came
from the reporter This was hardly a
good opening sentence for this write-up.

The latest edition of Woolley’s Hand-
book of Composition gives the follow-
ing rules regarding the use of quotation
marks, which may be helpful to our re-
porters: :

When a quotation mark and another
mark of punctuation both follow the
same word—

(a) A question or exclamation mark
should stand first if it applies to the
quotation and not to the sentence con-
taining the quotation.

Wrong: He said, “Are you hurt’?

Right: He said, “Are you hurt?”

(b) The quotation mark should stand
first if the question or exclamation mark
applies, not to the quotation, but to the
sentence containing the quotation.

Wrong: Did the letter say, “Come to-
night at ten?”

Right: Did the letter say, “Come to-
night at ten”?

(c) In either of the above cases no
comma or period should be used in ad-

question mark or exclamation mark.
(d) A period.or a comma should al-
ways precede the quotation mark.
(e) A semi-colon or a colon should

always follow the quotation mark.

dition to the quotation mark and the!

CHONG and MOEY

A Chinese Version of American
Sonss and Dances

WILD and HILLS

in ‘My Friend”

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville

PROGRAM

Thars. Fri., Sat., Jan. 12th, 13th, 14th

B. T
F. H

RRRRRRRRRRALRRARRARKLLLRELKRLARRRAERRRRRARRNNRRARRNNRE:

The Observer Printing House

Incorporated

Printing and Engraving

Observer Building

33 South Church
Street

K
E

WILL H. ARMSTRONG
Assisted by Maudie Smith
in The $100,000 Ankle’

nkle”

OVERTURE WRIGHT and DIETRICH

The Somewhat Different Singers”

BILLIE McKEE and CLARE GIRLS

“The Melodious Trio”

PATHE NEWS and COMEDY

B. R. Cates, N anager Charlotte, N. C.

boletetetatai irri rrr rrr rr rrr rrr rrrrrrrrr rrr rrr rrr

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken din-
ner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar
to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours: Breakfast 7:30 to 9
. Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8

every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a-complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles .

WHITE DRUG COMPANY:

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits

designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel
—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store.

An Unusual Display at =
$35 $40 $45

Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CoO.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet ”
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE

Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies.
They have an appeal which you
can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.

“A HOME COMPANY A HOME BUILDER

