‘ THE

DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16,

1922

ALUMNI NEWS

ABSENTEES TO THE
DAVIDSON ROLL CALL

Year after year vast streams of youth who
enter American colleges are checked in their
advance, so as to gather additional momen-
tum, and then burst into the full glory of
manhood and life. They live, a blessing to
God and humanity, and then are called to a
rich and deserving reward.

Davidson College has caught many a youth
from the whirlpool of life and has elevated
him to a higher plane where he may work
with his newly-acquired faculties unhindered.
Everywhere do we see these men, in the mis-
sionary field, the medical profession, the bust-
ness world, the scientific laboratory and so
on to the highest callings. But never once
have they committed themselves in a way
unbecoming of a Davidsonian or other than
a son of whom Davidson College is proud.

But there is a Master over all of them
who metes out to this or that one his portion
of life. And so we accept it as the best that
He has called to his fold some of our
brothers who have gone before us to break
away for us who must carry on—carry on to
the end for God, Davidson and humanity.

It is with a touch of sadness .that this list
of Davidson men who have died during the | ©
past year is published.

Capt. M. H. McBryde, A. B., ’58, died at
Laurenburg, N. C., during the past month,

R. H. Morrison, A. B., ‘68, died at his
country place near Davidson, August 7, 1922.

D, P. Hutchison, ’74, joined his brother
Davidsonians through death on April 25,
1922, at the age of 69 years. }

Rev. J. C. McMullen, ’73, departed from

‘us at his home in Winona, Miss., last April at
the age of 70 years.

Rey. Calvin Levers Stewart,
vember 9, 1921, at Pelzer, S. C.

John Pryor Lee entered with the class ot
1883, but did not graduate. He died Novem-
ber 11, 1921.

Brevard E, Harris, A. B., ’85, found his
reward in death at Concord, N. C., on May
20, 1922.

Dr. Leonard White, '87, departed on April
1, 1922, at the age of 52 years.

John M. McIntyre, A. B., 95, died during
the past year in Dallas, Texas.

P. A. Stough, A. B., ’96, joined his com-
rades on June 26, 1922, at Cornelius, N. C.

A. M. McClure, ’03, died last summer in
New York City where he was practicing law.

Walter Lee Campbell met with a fatal ac-
cident in Washington, D, C., causing an un-
timely death.

Harry H. Summerville, ’19, succumbed to
a disease contracted during his service in
France. His death occurred November 27,
1921, he being 27 years of age.

Hugh Cornelius, ’22, died after an acute
illness of eight weeks, on June 8, 1922, at a
hospital in Charlotte.

What we may say can add nothing to the
praise these men found in life nor the glory
found in death. To their families we extend
heartfelt sympathy for their bereavement.
And now Davidson alumni and students let
the death of our boys, yes verily, we are
proud to claim them as “our boys’—be an
impetus by which we may go through life
doing good and showering glory upon our
Alma Mater.

“From falling hands they have flung the
torch, :
. May it be ours to hold on high,”
3 Saearsietby Fy TERN

HERE AND THERE

John G. Choate, ex-’23, is studying decora-
tive art at Columbia University. His ad-
dress is 106 Hartley Hall, Columbia Univers
sity, New York City.

Thomas G. Hardie, ’80, is a cotton broker
in Charlotte, N. C.

Reed Smith, ’01, is professor of English
at the University of South Carolina.

Joel Smith Bailey, '03, is business manager
of a daily newspaper in Greenwood, S. C.

T. Peden Anderson, ’06, is a banker at
Westminster, S. C.

R. I. McDavid, ’05, is a 1 field engineer for
the Portland Cement Association, of
Chicago, Ill. His home address is Green-
ville, S. C.

R. B. Simmons, ’13, is farming at Sum-
merville, S. C. :

W. C. Sibley, '12, is office manager of the
Chesnee. Mills at Chesnee, S. C.

Rey. F. M. Bain, ’16, is located at Acco-
mac, Va.

Rev. Edgar David Kerr, ’04, is ssatonsor
of Hebrew and Cognate language at Colum-
bia Theological Seminury. His address is
1600 Blanding street, Columbia, S. C.

Henry A. Hill '12, is taking work at Co-
lumbia University and has classes in one oF
the New York City schools. He is living at
904 Lexington avenue.

jJ.R. Boulware, Jr, is instructor of science

77, died No-

and mathematics in Greenbriar Military
School at Lewisburg, W. Va.

Rev. Charles D. Holland, ’10, is pastor of
the Dickey Memorial Church and Rev. R. L.
Riddle, '11, is pastor of the Franklin Street
Church in Baltimore, Md. Reverend Hol-
land is living at Hillsdale in Baltimore.

Members of the faculty of Arkansas Col-
lege, Batesville, Arkansas, who are David-
son men are Rev. R. K. Timmons, ’04, dean;
D. M. Frierson, ’90, professor of matema-
tics; John B, Daffin, 18, professor of .chem-
istry; A. D. McArm, '20, professor of Latin.

Rev. Watson M. Fairley, '95, one of the
outstanding ministers of ‘Texas, is pastor of
the Westminster Church at El Paso.

Romeo Romefelt, ’21, was on the Hill
Sunday. He is working in Asheville, N. C.,
this year.

Rev. William H. Mills, is professor of
rural sociology at Clemson College.

Mr. H. B. Culbreth, '21, is working with
an insurance company in Chicago, I1l.

Rev. R. A. Brown, D. D., 92, was recent-
ly elected president of the Stillman Insti-
tute, of Tusca, Ala.

Mr. G. W. Miley, ’21,
business in Rock Hill, S.

Mr. Harry Sample, et is studying law at
Carolina.

Mr. Bill Shaw, ‘13, is coaching football at

Wilmington, N, C.-
L. C. Vass, 94, who was one of Da-
vidson’s iirst football players, later went as
a minister to Africa, He has recently re-
turned and become pastor of the Cartersville
Church in Georgia.

Mr. F. M. Castle, '23, is in the coal busi-
ness in West Virginia.

Rev. J. W. Stokes, '94, is pastor of the
College Park Presbyterian Church in At-
lanta, Ga.

92

“

a in the insurance

Rev.

Mr, J. E. Castle, '21, is teaching at Lenoir,
Ni C. :
Rev. T. 1H. Spence, 06, is pastor of Rocky

River Church in Cabarrus County, N. C.

Mr. John Brown Evans, ’08, is in the life
insurance business in St. Paul, N. C.

Rev. Hay Watson Smith, '90, is pastor of
the Second Presbyterian Church of Little
Rock, Ark,

Mr. J. M.
NG
Dr. J. S. Brown, ‘80, is practicing medi-
cine oe owns extensive ebbls orchards in
Hendersonville, N. C.

Mr. J. H. Dewey, '22, is principal of the
school in Hoboken, N. C.

Mr. M. C. Dew, ’22,
hank in Raeford, N. C.

Rev. L. A. MacLaurin, ’92, recently e-
came pastor of the Presbyterian Church of
Royland ,N. C

Rev. L. E. Wells, ’05, recently moved from
the Synod of N. C, to that of Florida,

Mr. Robert Murray, 18° ‘will graduate this
year usar the medical college of Maryland.

Dr. J. Hall, '05, after spending some
years in mines has returned to live in
his native home of Wilmington, N. C.

Mr. E. T. Huggins, ’95, is a successful
husiness man of Wilmington, N. C.

Mr. J. HoGentry, ’13, is professor of the
high school of Statesville, N. C.

Mr. H. W. Glasgow, ’02, owns and con-
ducts the University high school in Char-
lotte, N. Cn

Rev. V. L. Gaston, '93, is pastor of the
pak eia Church of Aberdeen, N. C.

Honorable W. IF. Stevenson, ’85, was re-
elected Congressman from the sixth district
of South Carolina in the recent election.

Rev. M. Mar Yosip, '11, is synodical evan-
gelist for the Synod of Arkansas.

Rey. H. D. Corbett, "13, was moderator of
the Bethel Presbytery of South Carolina at
its last meeting.

Rev. W. B.S. Chandler, 07, was modera-
tor and P. D. Patrick, ’15, temporary clerk
at the recent meeting of the Pee Dee Pres-
hytery of the Synod of South Carolina.

Several old Davidson men were seen at the
Davidson-Wofford game in Charlotte. Some
were past performers on the field and others
interested followers of the game. Those
present were R. D. Alexander, '19; A. S.
Cashion, ‘17, of Gastonia» Coit Robinson,
10, of Lowell; Mayor James O. Walker,
‘01; B. M. Romefelt, ’21, gf Asheville, N.
C.; G. D. Sparrow, ’16, of Charlotte; Dr.
Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte; Roy Perry;
H.. S. Alexander, 15; R. C. Goth; S. M.
Glove, 90; Dr. Nesbit Heath, '13; G. E.
Miley. '21; T. T. Allison, 1900; W. H. Neal,
17; R. R. McIlwaine; Mc. A. Carson, '13,
and Dr. J. R. Alexander, ’93.

D.

BIRTHS
Mr. J. M. Rumple, ex-’13, and Mrs. Rum-
ple, announce. the recent arrival of Jean
Irving. Mr. Rumple is living in, Columbus,
Ohio, jand is just recovering from a serious
operation.

Keith, ’22, is teaching at Vass,

is working in the

Born to Rev. '12, and Mrs. Jas. T, Pharr,
of Renick, W. Va., on July 9, 1922, a 10 1-2
pound boy, Jas. L. (Tim) Junior.

D.

CROSS-COUNTRY RUN
TO BE HELD DEC. 9TH

This year brings forth a new delight
within the realms of trackdom. U. N.C.
will hold an All-State, invitation cross coun-
try run at Chapel Hill December 9. Caro-
lina, State, Trinity, Elon and Davidson will
enter ‘teams.

Galloway, captain of this year's track
team, issued a call for tryouts some little
time ago and since then quite a little mob
has been going through the daily laps on
Sprunt Field.

Time trials will be held just before
lhanksgiving, and the triumphant three will
be chosen to represent Davidson, It is
hoped that December 9th will be one day on
which the Wildcats will be trailed.

Of the 16 men trying out for the team,
McBride and Galloway, veterans of the track
and Willford, Matthews and Gudgery new
aspirants, are showing up in good form. ‘The
balance of the bunch isn’t letting them get
by with any light workouts though, and
time and the trials alone can decide who will
make the trip.

The race will be three miles across coun-
try. Strict training has been pledged by the
men trying out, and they have all gone into
the affair to win if possible.

SSSI VLE p Vacate
WILDCATS TO FACE
(Continued from Page one)

there are many Davidson takers. ‘he Wild-

cats MAY be beaten Saturday but they will

never be outfought.

Bill Fetzer, the Carolina coach, played and
coached at Davidson for many years and. it
Was under his tutelage that Coach Hugh
arey reevived his training. As yet the Caro-
lina team with Metzer as its pilot has peen
unable to penetrate the Wildeat defense and
Saturday it will be given a third chance to
meet the Wildeat defense. Carolina has
rossed ‘the goal line of every team it. has
played this year, although the touchdown
igainst Yale was not allowed. This makes
the chances for upholding the scoreless ree-
ords of the past two years seem dark, but
the word impossible is not in the Wildeat
vocabulary. On the other hand, every team
except Trinity has scored on Carolina, Wake
Forest and Maryland by the field goal route
and all the°others by violating the ‘Tar Heel’s
goal line. Will Davidson, like Trinity, be
handed out a goose-egg? Red and Black sup-
porters believe and say emphatically “No,”
Many say that the Wildcats have no chance
against Carolina's heavier and’ more ex-
perienced team, but where there is fight there
is a chance, so the Red and’ Black has a big
chance for they will light from the word go
to the final whistle.

Fetzer’s fast Blue teant has a great ad-
vantage in weight over the Red and Black,
the difference being about six pounds per
man, Brice, at center, will be opposed by
Blount, who though lighter than his oppo-
nent, has the edge in experience and was
inentioned last year on the second All-State
team. Brice at his best has shown himself
to be the equal of any. who have faced him
and Blount will not be able to run over itm,

Sorrells at right guard, will face Captain
Pritchard, left guard and an almost unani-
mous selection for All-State honors last sea-
son. Pritchard is a hard charger and out-
weighs. Bascom by 15 pounds but Bascom
showed up well against Sherertz the 200-
pound V. P. I. guard, when outweighed 30
pounds, There is no harder fighter than Sor-
rells on the team and it would be no sur-
prise to see him more than hold his own
against the Carolina captain.

Sam Davis, at the other guard position,
will be outweighed more than 15 pounds by
Poindexter. Poindexter has been showing up
well this year and on account of his big ad-
vantage in weight seems to have the advan-
tage. Sam makes up for his lack of weight
hy his fight and is a hard man to beat.

Montague Clark has the edge in weight
over Matthews and shows up the better of the
two. Montague has speed, isa fierce charger
and a sure tackler and is good on blocking
punts. His work in the Wake Forest ganie
paved the way for Davidson's touchdown and
his blocking Heckman's kick saved the Wild-
cats from defeat.

Two Mc’s will mix things up at the other
tackle position where Mc Masters and Mclver
face each other. Mclver is the, best of the
Carolina tackles and will give any man a run
for his money at the position. While not a
flashy player, McMasters is a steady player
and can be depended upon to come across
with the goods.

*Lias Faison plays opposite Morris. ’Lias
is a defensive player of the highest type and
he can be counted on to stop many a Caro-
lina end run. When it comes to fierce tack-
ling and sure cutting Faison is all there and

he has an uncanny knack of sifting through
the interference and nailing the runner be-
hind the line of scrimmage.

Nappy Davis plays opposite Cochran who
ran Homewood ‘a close race for All-State
honors last season. Ip the V. P. I. game
the Gobblers were thrown for a net loss of
two yards around his flank, and in the Wof-
ford game he gained practically 150 yards on
passes, showing him to be both a defensive
and offensive end of the highest calibre.

Hendrix and McDonald will run the teams.
Monk i: a much more experienced player
than Jim and is a great runner as well as field
general, but Jim is an adept at ticking off
yardage around end and should give a good
account of himself. For pure speed there
are few backs who can’ surpass him, and
given the chance he can show a clean pair of
heels to anyone. “

The peerless Johnny Johnson will be at left
half while Gig Shepherd plays right half
for the Wildcats. If the Wildcats holds
Johnny a great part of their work ‘will be
done. Last year Johnson was Carolina ana
the year before Gig’s run beat the Tar Heels
so the work of these two backs will be
watched with a great deal of interest. Gig’s
showing has improved greatly in the list two
games and he will be at his best Saturday,

Hunt for Davidson and EF. Morris for
Carolina, play the other halves. Hoth of
these men are good line plungers and good
defensive backs. Popsy, playing his first
is showing up well and his powerful
drives make him the Wildcats’ best bet as a
‘ine plunger. Popsy. intercepted a pass in
the Wofford’ game and went half the dis-
tance of the field for a touchdown, Here's
hoping he pulls the same trick against the
Nar Heels.

Captain Spratt that 130-pound,
elusive, slippery, ‘twisting back, the hardest
man in the State to hold, will play at full:
During the first part of the season he was
not in good physical condition and rumors
hegan to float around that Spratt had lost his
stuff, but from the way things look at pres-
ent Spratt: will hit Carolina in his oldtime
form and it will take a miracle man to get
past him at the safety position, McGee is
playing the position for Carolina and has
heen delivering a fine brand of ball, but 1s
no match for the Wildcat captain, Spratt
worked wonders last year and prospects are
bright for him to repeat, and a touchdown or
so is not heyond the dream of Davidson sup-
porters,

In case

year,

Moore,

of injuries to these men, both
teams have a collection of substitutes only
slightly inferior to the first string men.
Their names and weights are given in the
columns of statistics of both teams,

Vor the 20th time ‘ar Heel and Wildcat
team face cach other on the gridiron. ‘The
University has annexed. 12 victories, David-
son, three, and four games resulted in score-
less ties. Despite the preponderance of Caro-
lina victories, the Unversity has only won
once in the past four years and is secking
revenge. The Wildcats are also out to atone
for the poor start this season and it will take
the hest Carolina has got to stop them IF
they can he stopped.

|
WOFFORD KASILY DEFEATED
(Continued from VPage 1)
down under them. Robinson and Captain
Davis also played well.
The line-up and summary :
DAVIDSON (34) WOFFORD (0)

Position
WaVvisieCmMy crcerrininrics Davis, ‘I’ (c)
Left End
MOMASters sii tiniaiiiie haiti Moore
Left Tackle
DAvissiSreMiic ivaialahaat sa aves cis Porter

Left Guard

7
Brice echo seek tiis sess. Rickard
Center
SOCPEIS GS. Cia Wises sees 5s cesses Player
Right Guard
Clarke ...... CERESRECEERUEINT 6 . Davis, W.
Right Tackle
Faison ..... BOUCHE CUUUUODUEA seeeeee Brown
Right End
HGHILIX i ieee eateseses ateyen Hoole
Guarterback
SHEPHATA Vii vse melkeeneet cs .... Roberts
eft Half
le (ii cl ear RRR RH Ir GCL Re RID Kingman
Right Half
WNIDOTE, CO) iss cares eee ay ane Robinson
Fullback
Score by periods :
IDAVIGBOR Piece haute 140 7 13—34
AWiOITOEU tr iicits i cesrarearepiaren 0000-0

‘Touchdowns—Hunt (2), Davis (2), Hen-
drix. Try for point—Moore (3) (drop-
kicks)—Shephard goal from placement. First
downs—Davidson 31; Wofford 4. Substi-
tutions—Davidson:- Regen for Davis, C. M.,
Crawford for Hunt, Cox for MeMasters,
Vields for Byice, Alexander for Sorrells,
Summers for Clarke, W. H. Moore for Fai-
son, Dick for Hendrix, Regen for Shephard,
DeArmon for Regen, McCombs for Moore,
Spratt, Covington for Crawford, Hodgin ‘for
Clarke. Wofford: Strickland for Moore,
Walker for Porter, D. Brown for Walker,
Hollis for Davis, Collins for Brown, Stokes
for Collins, Lessner for Stokes, Gross for
Roberts, Galt for Gross, Bailey for Robin-
son, Robinson for Bailey. ab
Albans).

Referee-—Sampson (St.
Umpire—MecDougal (N. C. State).

Linesman—Whitaker (N.C. State).
Time of quarters—15; 15; 15; 15.
FIRST QUARTER

Wofford won the toss and elected to de-
fend the west goal. Roberts kicked off 40
yards to Taison who returned to his 36-
yard line. Shephard plowed four yards
through left tackle. Shephard plunged
through the same spot for nine yards and
first down. Moore squirmed his way off
the same spot for seven pacers and Hunt
made it first down with four at right guard.
Sall on Wofford’s 39-yard line. Hendrix
slipped through left tackle and worked his
way to the four-yard line béTore being
forced out of bounds. Hunt smashed his
way to the one-foot mark through right
tickle. Moore failed to gain but Hunt car-
ried the hog’s hide over left tackle for Da-
vidson’s first touchdown. Moore drop-kicked
goal. Score—Davidson, 7; Wofford, 0.

Brice kicked off 30 yards to Brown who
was downed on the 31-yard line. Wofford
offside. Robertson circled left end for 21
yards and Wofford’s only first down in the
first half. Robertson hit center for two, put-
ting the ball on Davidson’s 49-yard line. He
gained one yard at the same place, but on
the next play Kingman fumbled and Hunt re-
covered, carrying the oval to Wofford’s 45-
yard line before being downed. Moore
circled right end for three, and then Hen-
drix made another 26-yard sprint through
left tackle for first down. The referee dis-
covered Hunt holding and moved the ball

(Continued on page cight)
COO 0000003000

If You Have Money, We

Want It.

If You Need Money,
Have It:

Morris Plan Bank

Wrnston-SALEM, N. C.

We

280 CI OO a 0 0 a

; DAVIDSON IS

Ic

THE CAMPAIGN for DAVIDSON IS NOW ON

RUNNING A CAMPAIGN
Home THAT HAS AN AIM FOR PROGRESS

We Can Sell You Insurance for Rain
That Pays Each Claim With Promptness

McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
. INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
| INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

FO CO 0)
———— — — —  — —— — —— ——— —————————— — — ————————————————————eemees

|
|

On the Square

Courteous Regards
For

the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

