w

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

FURMAN LOOMS DARK AS
TURKEY DAY OPPONENT

With the Carolina game as history, all the
eyes, grit and determination of the Wildcats
are turned in the direction of the Thanks-
giving struggle with Furman. Struggle is
right. It is the ambition of the, Davidson
supporters to wipe out the sting of the 28-0
defeat of last year and convert the Purple
Hurricane into a gentle, pink breeze, but it
will take a great deal of work on the part of
the coaches and team to overcome some of
the faults of the Carolina game, to accom-
plish the task.

In looking forward to that game two im-
portant facts are evident. ‘The first is that
the Davidson team to face the Hurricane is
better than the squad of ’21; and second,
Furman does not seem to be as good as she
was last year. Beside this fact, the Furman
coach and players seem to have set for them-
selves the example of other South Carolina
institutions and have trouble between thei-
selves, which resulted in the suspension of
two of her star backfield men, McCurry and
Dempsey. They were found missing in the
roll call for the South Carolina game and
remained off the squad for two weeks, Then
when Coach Bill Laval telegraphed in Trom
Columbia to reinstate the two players,. great
was the rejoicing in the Furman camp.

South Carolina romped over her Baptist
rivals to the tune of 27-6. The defeat was
partially administered by the second of the
two strong Gamecock elevens,

But these are just a very few of the
bright spots of encouragement for the Wild-
cats. When the manner in which Furman
defeated Florida, 7-6, early in the season is
considered, the way in which she trounced
Wofford, who had been waiting for them all
year, by a 41-0 score, while the Wildcats
dragged the old Gold and Black only by a
score of 34-0, it will be seen that Furman is
still represented by a team capable of with-
standing a strong opposition.

But as dope has been spilled all over the
gridiron again this year, it is hard to tell
how a game is going to turn out. Whatever
the resulting score may be next Thanksgiv-
ing a battle royal may be expected by both
teams. The Wildcats, outweighed, hope to
conquer by the old time fight and spirit, with
the co-operation of the student body.

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

Oo fo

CS

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” &

:
SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball
goods. We sell the Spalding,
Reach and Wright & Ditson
goods. We have the exclusive
agency for A. G. Spalding &
Bros

Rackets Restrang by an Expert

| Myers Hardware ‘and
Sporting <

«AL FAUL, Mer.
san

‘Test battle of the year,

CHONG’S LETTER

Davidson, N. C.
November 20, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Tar Heels showed themselves to be
one of the greatest teams in this neck of the
woods when they beat the Wildcats Satur-
day, 29-6. The Wildcats scored on ’em

though, and left Trinity the honor of being |’

the only team in the South which has been
unable to score on the Blue machine thts
season, That was one of the prettiest aerial
drives I have ever seen and it took a nifty
pair of ends and Jim Hendrix to pull the
trick. First, Jim shot a long pass to Nappy
and he trickled down the sidelines for 10 or
15 yards before he went out of bounds.
Then 'Lias grabbed the ball and carried it to
the 23-yard line. A third pass was incom-
plete but Nappy grabbed the next one on
the two-yard line and side-stepped two
would-be tacklers and ran over the last
chalk line for the Wildcats’ six points. It
was the greatest play of,the afternoon and
the crowd of 8,000 gave Nappy the ovation
he deserved. ‘The way he climbed into the
air after that ball was worth the price of
admission to see.

The score was 29-6, but the first downs
were closer than that, Carolina getting 21 to
the Wildcats’ 9, Each team got one first
down on a penalty. The Tar Heels had the
best interference seen around these parts in
many a day. The V. P. I. Gobblers had some
interference on their end runs, but the Wild-
cats were able to shift through and nail the
runner for losses time after time. The in-
terference Bill Fetzer had perfected Satur-
day was unbeatable and it's easy to see that
with even breaks Carolina would have whip-
ped Yale.

Red Edgerton was assisted from the ficld
Saturday by two policemen, Red, an assis-
tant on the coaching force, didn’t have on a
badge so two policemen decided to eject him
from the field. They refused to listen to
the coaches and dragged him out. It took
both of them to do it, and it was lucky for
them that they had four hands to Red’s
two, “cause if he had ever gotten one hand
loose there would have been at least one 200-
pound body flattened out on terra firma.
After an argument Red walked back in and
the two would-be heroes who had escorted
him to the gate had the pleasurable sensation
of looking like fools and having 8,000 people
see them in that light. Intelligence as: well
as brawn should be had in the police force.
They spent 10 minutes dragging a peaceable
and orderly man out of the park and then
let him walk back in again, while a bunch of
drunks in front of the Queens girls who were
cussing and raising sand were allowed to pull
all the rough stuff without so much as a wor
from the policemen. There were four or
five of them, though, and after the hard
time the cops had getting one sober man out
they must have decided that four drunks
were too many for them. It was pretty

@| sorry work, all the way around on ‘the part

of the supporters of the law and every Wild-
cat agrees that they deserve all the pannmg
they can get.

Furman made one more touchdown
against Wofford than the Wildcats did and
the game Turkey Day looms up as the great-
By comparative
scores the teams are evenly matched. South
Carolina frocked Furman, 27-7 and the Tar
Heels beat the Palmetto University by a
three-point margin, giving them a 23-point
lead over Furman. Carolina’s margin of
victory over us was 23 points, so from that
it looks like a tie verdict on Thanksgiving
but you never can tell!

Greenville will be the scene of a fight on
the 30th and a bunch of Wildcats will be
there to see the fun.

Frock Furman!!! CHONG.

D.

» Our last chance to make the worst sea-
son in Davidson gridiron history will come
with the Furman game. A bad season in
1919 was made much better by a 41-14 vic-
tory over the Hurricane, We have the ma-
‘terial to beat Furman. Why can’t we do it?

C. M. DAVIS—D

C, M. Davis, know to every one as Nappy,
hegan his college career with the class of ’24,
In his Freshman ‘year t was recognized that
he would be an invaluable addition to the
football squad, and if Davidson had not pos-
essed two all-State enus, Schenck and
Douglas, he would have occupied a berth
and made his letter that year,

Schenck and Douglas graduated in ’21, and
when the next scason rolled ’round Nappy
joomed up as the only logical man to fill one
of the gaps at end. It was without extra ef-
fort that he cinched this position and his sub-
sequent playing has obieNes him worthy of
the place.

He weighs a scant 155 pounds but an op-
ponent of 200-pound avoirdupois has no
matcrial effect upon Nappy’s onslaught. He
is the most consistent ground gainer at end
that has been seen at Davidson in some time.
Without casting any reflection on his defen-
sive game, it can he said that he is best on of-
fense. When a forward pass is anticipated
hy the Wildcat’s\opponent it is well for them
to keep an eye on Nappy. Many times he
has received the pigskin with waiting hands
and many yards have been credited to him
alone, which meant, or ultimately meant, a
touchdown. tI would be difficult to point out
a specific game in which Nappy has fea-
tured, for in every one he is there with all
the fight imaginable and gives his best from
the time the first whistle blows until the last
blast has sounded. However, the game with
Carolina last Saturday can be pointed to as
the brand of football Nappy plays.

Nappy has one more year at Davidson and
students hope that he will return for a M. A.
degree, since he is eligible for two more
years of football. It is the consensus of
opinion on the Hill that when-the time comes
for selecting all-State ends, Nappy will be
seriously considered to occupy one of the ex-
tremities on that mythical eleven.

D.

CLASS. BASKETBALL
|  Soph-Fresh

The Sophomores made it four straight and
practically cinched the class ' basketball
championship when they defeated the Fresh
on Friday night by the score of 27 to 9. They
have two more games td play, one against
the Juniors and one against the Seniors. If
they should lose both of these ‘games, it
would at most be a tie.

The game was clean and hard-fought

‘throughout, and was really closer than the

Se ne wept A -

It was an autumn evening,

‘The football game was done,

The undefeated college scribe

Was smiling at the sun.

“Although we lost the game,” said he,
“It was a moral victory.”

The wise eggs who wagered their
mazuma that Carolina would wallop the
Wildcats by five touchdowns are now break-
ing their legs rushing to the complaint de-
partment.

The Tar Heels looked like a cool million
last Saturday. A game Coach Bill’s pupils
and V. P. I. would be worth going over
miles of rocky road to see.

It's merely “one fool’s opinion on sports,”
but the Old Dominion team would carry our
rocks in that game.

Carolina’s next logical opponent is Bat-
tling Siki.

African Golluf

Try for a point.
crap shooters do it.

Football players and

Your're all wrong, Mary Jane. The Char-
lotte police force has to pass. an intelligence
test.

Famous Comebacks!
He hit me when I wasn’t looking.
Babe Adams.

Had a bad cold, couldn’t study.

Record of Past Games With
Furman

1902—D. C. 6—Furman, 0.
1915—D. C. 58—Furman, 13.
1916—D. C. 46—Furman, 14.
1917—D. C. 28—Furman, 7.
1919—D. C. 41—Furman, 14.
1920—D. C. 0—Furman, 7.
1921—D. C. 0O—Furman, 28.

score might indicate. ‘This was especially
true, since the Sophomores were without the
services of their trusty trio, Anderson, Mitch
ell and Staley. These positions were ably
supplied, however, by Brice, Boggs and
Oeland. Ed Morrison was the individual
star for the winners, playing an effective
game at guard and ringing up a total of six
field. goals. Brice also got his eye on the
basket and registered four counters. For the
Freshmen, Speir and Parker probably played
the best game, Speir registering four of his
team’s tiine pots.

The. game had not been announced at the
picture show, so there was but a small bunch
of rooters out to support the two teams. The
game did not start until 10:30, and the
Chambet of Commerce breakfast and dinner
began to tell heavily on those that had made
the trip to Charlotte that day.

The first half ended with the score 17 to 3
in favor of the Sophs, but the Fresh came
back stronger in the second half and held
their opponents to five field goals, while they
tung up three. This game gives the Sopho-
mores a total of 136 points to their’ oppo-
nents’ 35,

SOPHS (27) FRESH (9)
Position
BOGR85(5) vies seve decile sc « Coulton (2)
Forward
Oceland (2) ......5...cce cece Parker (2)
d Forward
BBEICOL(B) moles. ois able ae ee Mh ge Speir (4)
z Center
Morrison (12) ............0.. Caddell (1)
: Guard
Koenig (0) ......... BREA SR CEES Davis (U)
: Guard

‘Substitutions—Freshmen: Minter for
Davis, Davis for Minter, Minter for Davis.
Sophomores: Taylor for Oeland, Wharton
for ' Boggs, Price for Taylor. Referee—
Crawford. —

Sas

PST TE Sa eer se

Carter .......0005 LOOF4Se escaeengee End
Chewning ........ 194 59 .......... Quarter
POAC isi soubves 154549) is vss eeeen Half
WATERS ci cesses DSC VSN GOLiO Half
Dempsey ......... On) eB irninisnnconic Full
Harvey «.......0 WA) CT asGncoconun Tackle
Bland tisieiss caste 152050 evinces Guard
McCurry ......... LOSESOT, cere neers Quarter
Bigroey nin sia saavers Ee eran rk ei ingi tr) Half
GUTH icc. nt DRY ferric tion End
Howard ......... 1945562535 0s cack Tackle
Mattison ......... ERY atarinnino icc Guard
HOstetensainicenne 145 2 tents it Half
Pickleshimer ..... 184 OB os asiese cies Center
Weston .......... IVAN CV Aemracoating ads Full
Bee Gartetens casi 143250 6 cai es Quarter
Ste iia ct 19659. Oi cetencien Half
Settle. yeas ces U9 Ver oatierrienicic Guard
Simpson ......... TSZCSI Miner Half
MAavlotrncvecccanes LO ay iienenin Half

They got all the breaks,
Because!
Red Edgerton.

The Dame who was left waiting “at the
church” didn’t have a thing on that Carolina
bunch when Nappy Davis lit a rag after a
pass Saturday.

Jene Elliott says an apple a day will keep
the doctor away. We wonder what an
onion will do.

’ D:

The proofreader on a small Middle
Western daily was a woman of great
precision and extreme propriety. One
day a teporter succeeded in getting
into type an item about “Willie Brown,
the boy who was burned in the West
End by a live wire.’

On the following day the reporter
found on his desk a frigid note ask-
ing: “Which is the west enfl of a
boy ?” we Pa

Tt took only an instant to reply :
“The end the son sets on, of course.

We Will Be
Looking for
All the Boys

SATURDAY

Exclusive Men’s Shop
Make This Your

Headquarters

Tryon Street,

Charlotte, N. C.

Clothing and Fussiehiogs
for Young Wen

-

