4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Y orth Carolina Collegiate Press Association |
as otto Ne Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

icles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
nd ORGS, Artieles received from an unknown source will not be published.

—— Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH. ‘orum Editor
i D: WINS .-First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN. mee NG
W. M. HESTON.-.-.--Second Managing Editor D. H, OGDEN... mAh ye fle
S. GRACY-- ---Assignment Editor W. TT. ELLIOTT. --Social Ee )
k H. MAUZE ---Athletic this Ke Mt ORE D AEA Editor
i it SUA) RORD Yosece st se
Ui fer ec race Wit cate epeet is) Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
ZE : -R. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BROWN, CV." RR, SMITH, R.. H.
BROWN, W. P. NOX, W. I. TULLER, C. D.
CALHOUN, M., P. LACY, T._ A. WALTHALL, D, B.
FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. H. WILDMAN, A. C.
Additional Reporters
POMEROY, W. L. tS, R. NN. '
McILWAINE, C. M. TT, A. N. if |
WHARTON, D. B. ICE, HARRY. M. |
McIVER, D. D. AUSTIN, JACK. |
HOPKINS, P. A. SHARPE, W. H. |

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

W. J. COOPER. ....-....... Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H, DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

TAT SCAINGsceascaes Circulation Manager Assistants in Circulation Department: E
Wk WOSSELL and C.D. TULLER S.C. P. C. HENDERSON | -
ae Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Asst. Business Managers | ©

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922.

Opes Form

HUH UH

EDITOR’S NOTE.

While every man on the new
staff takes off his hat to the old
staff and realizes that they did a
great work for the college and for
the paper, we are not satisfied with
the condition of the paper as it
is now and earnestly desire to im-
prove it in every department. It
seems to us that the Open Forum
aas been somewhat neglected and
nas been relegated to a backseat

column is not an editorial column
for the Forum editor. It does not
exist as a means for one man to
air his views to the student body.
This column affords an opportu-
nity for every man in college to ex-
press .his opinions on any matter
of interest to the other students.
You don’t have to be a Dr. Frank
Crane to comment on the college
activities. If things are not run-
= ning to suit you Iet us know about
it.
Another function of this column
is to give you a chance to reply to
- the arguments of the other stu-
- dents. If any articles appear that
you don’t like and with which you
don’t agree, write a reply to it. We

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL |

A NEED FOR ACTION.

D sented Davidson have received a large amount of attention, All

means have been used to get more men and better men to con-
test for places, and the students have backed the teams in a most com-
mendable way. These are facts of which all are proud.

One branch of athketics, however, has not progréssed as it should.
Many of us remember when, three and four years ago, our track team
was one of the best in the State. With other colleges emphasizing track,
having separate coaches for it, and putting out excellent teams, there is
certainly no reason why our own team should be left behind,

At present, a big trouble seems to be lack of interest, both on the
part of the students and on the part of the coaches. This is unfortun-
ate when we have coaches who were fine track athletes when at college,
also some promising material for this year’s team. Perhaps an ap-

on the part of the students may be the cause of the relegation of
rack to a back seat by those in charge. Wherever the trouble lies, it
be r¥iffedied to great extent if action is taken on both sides.

and lose the chance of securing a number of good men for the team,

seems a pity. If the students are to blame for not showing the proper

interest in the occasion, its importance must be seen, and the Athletic

Association executives made to realize that we want it every year. This
stand can revive the old spirit, and give, track a great impetus.
D.

CO-OPERATE WITH US.

©

It would be impossible for the new staff to take charge of the David-
sonian and not say a word of commendation to those who have worked
so faithfully to make the past year’s paper a success. None are more
anxious than we are to have honor ard recognition bestowed where it is
due. This could not be more fittingly, given than. to the retiring mem-
bers of the staff of 1921-22 as was clearly shown in an article of last
week’s Open Forum, The amount of work that some of these men have
done for the Davidsonian and through the Davidsonian for Davidson, is
known by very few, and the rewards that crowned their efforts certainly
have seldom been in any way comparable with the work they have done.
No praise that is given them will be misplaced or undeserved.

We realize the responsibility and work that lies before us, new and
untried ; but we are undertaking it with a determination to succeed, and
a desire as this first issue goes to press to please, interest, and gain
the co-operation of our subscribers. Only thus can the standards that
have been set be maintained and a greater degree of success attained.
Kut we know that, backed by the students and the alumni, nothing can
prevent the continued prosperity and growth of the paper which will be
so earnestly striven for.

The Davidsonian has become a colle
here should justly be proud. We hope
feeling and will help to make it-even more interesting, representative,
and successful. The boosting and suggesting that any do will be great-
ly appreciated ; their knocking can only hinder and dispirit-without aid-
ing in any way. Won't each one of you think of this, and tell others what
you like and us what you don’t like! Only in this way can there be a
real co-operation here on the campus that will mean a step toward
progress,

What the Davidsonian might mean to the alumni and, the loyal sup-
port they could give it, cannot be stressed enough. We. are starting
our work with the idea of increasing’ especially the interest of the
alumni by printing more news about them and more items they like to
read. In return we want more of them to read this. Not only does
much happen to graduates that their old college-mates would jike to
know of, but by their hearing of the doings on the campus more than
by any other method can the close connection between Davidson and her
alumni be maintained. For the interests of the college therefore, and of
the-Davidsonian, we ask your co-operation and support.

ge paper of which every student
that everyone does have this

URING the past few years, the athletic teams that have repre-|_

=<-Hiéld Day was the event ifi the past that ushered in the track sea-
didn’t think-they-could make-the team, -were. still anys i
‘0 go orthis. To discard Field Day, remove Such an incentive,

want to get some discussion on
the topics of vital interest to all
_ of us. 6
Take a little time off and let us ©
know what you are thinking about.
Turn in any article which you may
write to number six Rumple.
You Tithe?
i NMA
‘THE HONOR SYSTEM.

We read in the Handbook under the
head of Honor System, that cach student
is on his honor to report to the Student
Council any violation of the student

body constitution that he may observe.

Yes, and we also find in the constitution
that no student shall refrain from re-
porting any violation of the Honor Sys-
tem which comes under his observation.
Has this been done for the last few years
here}: No; it certainly -hag,

man¥ of us have sala” or
boys say’thae’ we-woutdn’'t
body for cheating

at Me .
M den » We ha
begun to regard the councilmen as
detectives or policemen. We feel that
we are safe in doing most anything if
we can hide it from the Student Council.
Ouoting again from the constitution we
find it shall be the duy of the Student
Council to receive, prefer, and try any
charge against a student fpr violation
of any provisions of the constitution.
The council is not and was never intend-
ed to be a bunch of detectives. It was
instituted as a court to see that any stu-
dent charged with a breach of honor
should be cleared or dealt with properly.
It is now becoming a disagreeable posi-
tion to be a member of the council and
not an honor,

'Everyone hates to report a fellow-

over

student for a misdemeanor and in many

cases it seems almost impossible. But
if we are to have a healthy honor sys-

tem, a college which is a safe place to
send boys to, we must abide by our Con-
stitution and create a sentiment against

breaches of the Honor System.

The time is soon coming to elect a
Let us put men on this
and
whom we know will stand for the right.
Give us keen, clear-minded men who are
fearless in the performance of their
duty. Above all things don’t expect too
much of the Student Council unless you
are willing to back them and help them

tlew council.

council whom we trust, respect

do away with wrong on the campus.
; Xie Z
yp eats

1

Mrs. Montgomery, mother of Frank
Montgomery, ’25, and niece, Mrs. War-
wick, of Frankfort, Ky., spent the week-
end in Davidson on their way home from
Florida, where they have been spending

the winter.
D.

Dr. ‘C. M. Richards preached at the
First Presbyterian Church in Concord

last Sunday,

=
=
S
=I
=

With Other Colleges

Interesting Facts.

Princeton, N. J., Jan. 9—Freshmen at
Princeton consider a varsity letter more
desirable than a Phi Beta Kappa key,
according to a recent questionnaire that
was filled out. Ninety-nine men favored
the varsity letter while 64 expressed a
preference for the key.

Other facts brought out showed that
17 men had stopped smoking since en-
tering college while only two had ac-
quired the habit; 146 had kissed girls,
28 hadn’t; 99 approved of the modern

in the editorial section. The pur- 3] girl, 47 didn’t; 98 had taken a drink be-
pose of this department has been 3| fore coming to college against 68 who
somewhat misconstrued by the 2 hadn’t. The average number of girls
majority of the students. This 2 |written to by each man was 3.8.

The most desirable extra curriculum
office was editor-in-chief of the Prince-
tonian; chairman of the senior council
was second, and captain of the football
team, third.

D
NUMEROUS CHANGES MADE IN
NEW EDITION OF CATALOGUE

The Catalogue of Davidson College
tor 1922-23 has been published, setting
forth the attractions and elucidating up-
on the privileges of attending this in-
stitution, The greatest change in the
college next year will be the new dormi-
tories. These will be ready for occupy-
ancy by next September. They will
each house 115 students; they are to be
modern in all respects, similar in
arrangement to Georgia. The charge for
rooms in these dormitories will be $45 as
compared to $35 for Georgia, Watts, and
Rumple.

A new course of study is to be in-
troduced, After the student has com-
pleted the work required in his Fresh-

—|man and Sophomore years a group of

studjes in Commerce may be taken as a

major.\ There are now four groups:
Langue, History and Philosophy,
Scighcé, and Commerce. Students who

take A.B. 1 or A.B. 2 courses in their
Freshmen and Sophomore years may
major. in any one of the groups; those
who take a B.S. 1 must major in the
Science group, and those who take B.S. 2
must major in the Commerce or History
and Philosophy groups.

The term-hour point system will be in
{ull swing next year, making it necessary
to have 132 term hours and 200 points to
traduate. SDMBA Assess t

Tuition will bé faised from.$37.50 per
erg ‘te The ent{ve"teds wit be $140
Jindtead of iead this yedt, “8TH
N. “CBllege“willopen on September 12th
| ae APGAG G8 om yuki yen

pode

MUCH TALKED OF PICTURE
TO. BE SHOWN THIS WEEK

Bringing. into bold ‘review quaint
small-town character types’ familiar to
residents of interior towns throughout
the country, “Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford,” a Cosmopolitan production re-
leased by Paramount, and a picturization
cf George M. Cohan’s celebrated stage
success, will be the feature at the movies
Saturday night. .The humorous and
naive qualities of country folk are dis-
closed with great skill, yet without
occasioning the slightest offense.

J. Rufus Wallingford and “Blackie”
Daw his. partner, are getting ready to
swindle ‘a town. They pretend that they
are big manufacturers and that they in-
tend to put a big company there. The
townspeople are all for the idea and they
give the two crooks everything they
want on credit. The company is form-
ed and they are to manufacture carpet
tacks; the name of the company is “The
Universal Covered Carpet Tack Co.”

The crooks get a great deal of money
and are almost ready to skip but they
find that they have fallen in love with
two of the town girls. A large man-
ufacturer comes to see Wallingford and
offers to give him a million’ dollars for
his line of goods. Eddie Lamb, a young
fellow who was sent out as a salesman
to fool the people, comes back with an
order for more than an hundred thou-
sand gross of the new tacks. Walling-
ford and “Blackie” nearly collapse at
this news. At the close of the story
both the crooks are rich and influential
tien in the town, and have married, and

have happy homes.
To

“Can:a lover be called a suitor when
he don’t suit her?”

hat
re

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Dear Dad—I am asking you for some
cash sooner than I had hoped, but, you
see, several things have come up—books,
dues, laboratory fees, room rent, etc.
Please send me a check for $80.

Respectfully, your son,
LAMAR.

My dear son: I received your special
today and am enclosing the amount you
asked for. I was in college myself, you
see.

With love,
DAD.
P.S.—Is she good looking?

The Belles,
Hear the laughter of the belles!
City belles!
What a world of merriment its melo-
dy foretells!
Hear the chatter, chatter, chatter
In the city everywhere!
Making hearts go pit-a-patter—
Making old men stand and stare!
Stand and stare! stare! stare!
At the bobbed and curly hair
And the eyes! eyes! eyes!
Eyes that catch and hypnotize,
While within the hearts of tea hounds
thoughts of flirting really dwells, :
With the belles, belles, belles, belles!
With the smart and haughty, slightly
naughty belles!
The mobs and gobs o
belles!
Some belles!

f merry city

Hear the singing of the belles!
Country belles!
As their voice throughout the wood land
sinks and swells!
Clad in gingham quite appealing
To thewhodest rural lad;
While the rural moon is stealing
O’er the mountain tops, they’re kneeling,
While their rural bull is reeling,
Elucidating lover’s: feeling
To the maiden gingham clad,
And she says, “Aw, go ask dad!”
And the father, aggravated,
In a state intoxicated,
Kicks them off the farm unaided!
So it happens to many maidens who
far from the city dwells!
Those dear old belles, belles, belles!
The Slickum roping, sly eloping belles!
Rural belles! <4
(Whatch your laurels, Mr. Poe.)
—Technique.

Horse Sense.

“Yist-day,” says Uncle Zeke, “I drapped
foah cents on the floor and dey made a
big racket. Eef dey had been foah dolar
bills nobody would have heard ’em drap.
People is jest like money; dem dat makes
the most noise ain't allus of de mos’
account.”—Boys’ News.

Charley Paddock, the phenomenal
sprinter and holder of seven world’s
records, recently turned a cold shoulder
to promoters who offered him a $20,000
a year contract to turn professional and
run in Europe.

He says: “Professionalism in the true
sense of the word does not injure the
athlete or lower the standard of individ-
val achievements, but it certainly ruins
the spirit of amateur arthletics. Had I
accepted that professional offer I might
have been able to run just as well when
money was the object, but the pleasure
of running would be gone and the spirit
of amateurism and sportsmanship, which
is the prize of collegiate competition,
would be lost.

“I wouldn’t go across the street to see
a salaried college football team play a
game, though they were just as good as
amateur players.

“One team in that case is working for
money and the other fighting for a pur-
pose and an ideal, and that is what
makes teams.

“Professionalism, if allowed to con-
tinue in collegiate sport, will end by ruin-
ing the spirit of true competition.”

TD.

1)

Pre—What can we do tonight?
Med—Let’s go around to the cemetery
and dig up a couple of girls—Trinity

Chronicle. :
