4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Carolina Collegiate Press Association
wear i Spathern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF "15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson. College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by ded
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Forum Editor

..-Editor-in-Chief . P. PRICE, i
% GAM “Managing Editor }: S. CURRY {Campus Editor
H.W: f . Managing Editor {: C. BAILEY “ae A Halter |
Rk. EF. DAVIDSO. Assignment Editor . SPRUNT.. ceed) ae
mG ORuON DE Be Vt Editor W i. CSopnn J® RES Publicity Editor
Ae OE ei ee RI TREN side ‘exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
z 5 FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.

BRADFORD, Ww %. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. I. mae

BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.

BROWN, W. P. ONES, J. R: SMITH, aon

CALHOUN, M, P. ONES, R. R- PULLER. C.D.

SOX, W. M NOX, W. I. WALTHALL, | B

ELKINS, L..D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A.C.

ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILD. 1c. F,

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

JC, -WOOLsss os 2225255525 Business Manager ,
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. HEPARD Asst. Business Managers
re CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
i i H Circulati Depar 3
M. R. DOUBLES.....-.- Circulation Manager Assit in iedchove apehigtyad tes
; ,D. TULLER S. C, FAIN . C. HEND!
plug cue ring Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Once again the Wildcat debaters have been successful in their con-
test with Randolph-Macon, The four to one decision of the judges on
last Friday night is ample proof of the decisiveness of their victory, and
we wish to congratulate the members of our team on the way in which
they upheld the honor of Old Davidson.

D

Why is it that a man who will argue all afternoon before he, parts
with a quarter unnecessarily is never better pleased than when a profes-
sor cuts a class which he, the student, has paid for the privilege of at-
tending ? :

D
With the first game hardly two weeks off, the baseball squad has

some real work ahead of it in the next féw days.
D ;
DAVIDSON’S LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN.

W the collegiate year at Davidson—the Life Work Campaign of

the Y. M. C. A. The time has come when the call of the differ-
ent professions is to be presented to the attention of the students, and
when each one of us is called on todo some real thinking. No, subject
could be of greater importance to a man than this matter of the choice
of a vocation, and certainly there is nO one on the campus to whom it is
not a vital question. It is because oof the very universality of its appeal
that we are devoting so large an amount of space in this week’s paper to
the campaign,

No efforts have been spared by the Y. M.C. A. authorities to bring
to Davidson at this time a speaker who will be a real help to the stu-
dents and to. whom. they may talk freely about their problems. In Doc-
tor Vander Meulen they feel that they have secured a man who fulfills
all the requirements, and who will bring a--message of real: inspiration
to every student. Surely these meetings afford an opportunity which
none of us can afford to lose, and hold the possibility of great things for
the student body. Let us then make it a point to be present at every
meeting, lest, we miss the very thing of which we are most desirous.

D.

FOOD FOR SERIOUS THOUGHT.

If are now in the midst of one of the most important events of

Go to the Library and look over the bound copies of the Davidson-
ian for the past few years. You will find, if you examine closely, that
almost without exception at about this time of year there have appeared
editorials on the matter of the approaching student body elections. The

‘problems to be faced are practically the same in each succeeding year,
and one of those old editorials might apply to campus problems equally
as well now as when they came from the hands of their respective
authors. The subject has been worn rather threadbare as regards the
matter of use, but it is nevertheless of such importance that we can-

‘not refrain from the mention of it here.

Beginning with next Monday Morning w.
cral weeks to come with the selection of ne

_ these men wiltbe placed the responsibility of shaping the life of the cam-
“pus during the year to come, and in their hands will be placed the
power of making or breaking the several organizations of which they
will be the leaders. The manner in which they face the problems which
confront them will largely determine’ whether the various activities of
the campus are to remain in their Present conditions, take great steps
forward, or to lapse into absolute inaction. They will form the founda-
tion on which the whole structure of college life will be based.

The-men_for-offices of such importance should not~be selected on
the spur of the moment. They should rather be chosen as the result of
mature deliberation on the part of every student, and after considering
the candidates from all possible angles every student should make his
- own decision regardless of the opinion of, others. In our deliberations
cn the matter let us lay aside all likes
animosities, and then in all fairness let us vote for the men whom we

_ believe to be the best qualified for the responsibilities of leadership on
the Davidson campus. " by the exercise of such methods that

e shall be engaged for sev-
w student body officers. On

It is only
‘we can hope to select the right men.

| We believe that the Sophs realize most

and dislikes, friendships and||

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1921.

Open Forum

!

GET READY.

| Prospects for Junior Speaking are cer-|
| tainly looking bright. - Old '23 is taking |
|hold of things like a veteran and prom- |
ises.to give us the social event of a life-|
time—in fact they say that what's go-|
ing on this year about the 24th and 25th |
of March is going to make everybody sit |
up and take notice, even the old timers. |

But even with all the determination,
Sagacity, and capability of '23, they are |
|not going to be able to have the big |
time they are planning. without a lot!
of outside help from every man here. |
In the first place everybody must co-|
operate in seeing that there is plenty of
“fire” on the hill and that they are
|properly taken care of. This will mean
that all the fellows in town who can do}
;so will have to give up their rooms for
|those three days and will have to come

/over on the campus, and it. will also,
mean that those on the campus must)
not mind doubling for those three nights. |
{The Juniors have all their plans worked |
;out and all we have to: do is to follow |
| their lead and they guarantee that they |
| will take care of every girl that the fel-|
lows will invite.

In the second place, to make this go
we ought to all stay and enjoy it. There
is a certain bunch on the hill that like
to go home at this time every year. They
are not only missing a big time them-
selves but they are keeping the rest of
us from having just that much bigger
time, for the old saying still holds true
that “the more the-merrier.”

Pull hard, pull together, and pull with
23 and we will wake Davidson up two
weeks from Friday. A. D. F

D.

SQUARE DEAL.

If any one class on the hill has been
knocked this year it is the Sophomores.
We hear that part of them prefer to go
home rather than study, and that those
who stay do not try for the ‘high lights
in scholarship that other classes’ show.
We hear that they violate the rules of
the Student Government We hear that
they stamp their feet and are otherwise
rowdy in chapel.- This article is not to
excuse aty fault that the Sophs.-have.

of their weaknesses and that-for the
most part they do not approve of them.
Lut we do want to urge that it is time to
put on the’ soft pedal, 5;

Let us remember the good points about
the Sophs. Let’s remember the men in
the class who favor us with music in
yarious ways. Let us remember those
who were on our football team. Let us
remember the men interested in the dif-
ferent forms of our religious -work. Let
us remember those out for track and
baseball. Let us remember those who
average above 90 by a healthy margin.
Let us remember those earnest fellows
who plod al8ng doing their best. Let us
remember those interested in our publi-
cations. Let us remember those who
are being recognized as possible ma-
terial for student body leadets—i
days ahead, 2

Each man thinks his class is the best
and that is right, but we want to be
broad and while standing for what is
right in our class and the others let us
try to see the good in all and promote
among all our fellows that spirit which
makes Davidson student life so grand.

23.

Jumping around from one job to
another will ultimately drag any
man down to the bottom of the
ladder and make him a stepping
stone for the real stickers in the
game of life.

When you feel the fancied great-

er opportunities of other fields tug-
ging at your sleeve just hold a
short communion with yourself and
remember that it’s the man and
not the line which achieves suc-
cess,
You will then decide that there
is nothing better than the work
you are doing and that you make
your own opportunities by the
spirit you put into your task every
day of the year.

The fellow who attempts to
dodge this fact is only kicking
Progress in the shins.—Selected.

THREE YOUNG LADIES GIVE
* GOOD LYCEUM ATTRACTION

The program delivered by the Artists’
Trio Company last Monday night in
Shearer Hall was one of unusual novelty
and entertainment, and proved to be one
of the best of this year’s Lyceum offer-
ing. .

The company was composed of three
young ladies, Miss Corinne Jessop, read-
e1 and soprano; Miss Vera MacKelvie,
cartoonist and soprano; Miss Mary
Johnson, pianist and contralto.

The program was a novel comhination
of songs, readings, pianologues, and car-
toon work, and was so arranged as to
command the receptive attention of the
entire audience.

The readings of Miss Jessop were es-
pecially enjoyed, as were the drawings of
Miss MacKelvie. The party continued
en their tour from Davidson, going to
Cornelius for their next performance.

D.
WORK COMMENCING ON ONE
NEW FOUR-STORY DORMITORY

Work is beginning this week on the
new four-story dormitory that will be
ready for occupation by the beginning
of next session. The building is to be
completed by the 1oth or 15th of August.
Material is arriving every day to use on
the foundation. Tool houses have been
erected and a new electric-driven con-
crete mixer has been set up. A force of
laborers has been secured and more will
be added as needed. A car of crushed
stone and cement is being unloaded for
use in the concrete frame of the whole
structure.

1 NEUE py ene
LOCAL BETA THETA PI IS
HOST TO DISTRICT MEET

During the past week-end the local
chapter of the Beta:Theta Pi Fraternity
was the host of the annual District
Convention of that fraternity. The dis-
trict in which the Davidson chapter, Phi
Alpha, is included comprises also the
chapters at Washington. and Lee, Vir-
ginia and North Carolina: Each of these

chapters were represented by a dele-|

gation,

The meetings were for the most part
taken up with business relating to the
verious chapters. J. W. Stuart Gilchrist,
ts, of Charlotte, is district Chief, and as
such conducted all the sessions of the
convention. Business did not dominate
entirely, however, and both the visitors
and their hosts made it‘a most enjoyable
occasion for all. Other alumni who were
present included E. B. Nisbit, ’15, C. W.
Gilchrist, ex-’22, and W. P, Thompson,
"16, of Charlotte, and Capt. Reid Mor-
rison, ‘02, of Mooresville.

D.

WHAT’S WHAT

(Continued from page 1)
he seemed possessed with the eye of an
eagle and the slyness of a fox, adding
quite a few counters to the Wildcats’
total.
C. M. Davis, Left Guard
Nappy was unable to play in a large

the|Number of games this year on account

of scholastic difficulties and he was
missed greatly. However, he got into a
majority of the home games and slipped
a spike in the opponents’ cogs several
times by chalking up field goals. Nappy
played like a Kansas cyclone, busting up

dribbles and smearing passwork in great
fashion,

D. Mallory, Right Forward

Dan came to Davidson with the repu-
tation of being one of the best athletes
¢ver turned out by Charlotte Hi, and by
his work on the court this season he has
demonstrated that he has the makings
of a great basketball'man in him. Floor
work is his natural forte and he would
be worthy of honorable mention in any
company. He has also improved greatly

in his shooting and deposited several
baskets.

M. S. Beall, Right Forward

Mac is another Freshman who has
shown wonderful improvement. This
Peppery little forward is fast and handles
the ball cleverly, navigating his way
through gaurds nearly twice his size. He
attracted Coach Hengevyeld’s attention
early in the season by his quiek pivoting
and side-stepping, and under the tute-
lage of that able*instructor he has shown
temarkable development. With three
years ahead of “him, Beall should de-
velop into a great little forward.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Did You Ever?

Speaking of clothes—

Did your girl

Ever wear one dress

Until, when anyone

Said, “Can a leopard change

His spots?”

You always thought

OF her \

And voted, “No?”

And then

One day

When you had been

Looking for her

And finally

You spotted that dress

And dashed up

And called her
“Sweetie”

Or something soft like that,
And then the dress

Turned around

Her room-mate said

“You fresh thing!”

Didn’t you recall

Somethng about a wolf

In “sheep’s clothing?”

’ —Utah Hum-Bug.

Has It Ever Happened to You?
Broke, broke, broke,
By thy spendthrift ways, O Girl!
And I would that I had the dollars
It cost me to give you a whirl.

O, well for the billionaire’s boy
With his fleet of expensive cars!
Oh, well for the wealthy lad
Who smoked imported cigars!
Broke, broke, broke,
And royally trimmed by thee.
Now I surely hope that you stick with
him
And never come back to me!
—Dirge.

Swarthmore, Pa., Dec. 5.—During the
first week in December a drive was in-
stituted at Swarthmore, known as the
College Chest Drive, the purpose, of
which is to consolidate the students’ sub-
scriptions to the various causes which
are now claiming the attention of the
student body of almost every college in
the country. The students of Swarth-
more, like those of many other institu-
tions, have experienced the annoyance,
if it may be thus lightly termed, of dig-
ging down into their pockets at all to-
gether too frequent intervalseto support
the different relief organizations of the :
country. In order to avoid this annoy--
ance it has been decided to ask every
student to contribute from one to fifty
dollars to the “College Chest,” from
which will be distributed, according to
the judgment of those in charge, various
amounts for the support of the six or
more worthy organizations which would
otherwise canvass the student body for
the money. By the adoption of this sys-
tem Swarthmore:is going to ease the
minds of the students who have paid
their quota, and it will put the entire
matter on a more business-like basis.

The Mercer Cluster.

The Mercer “Special,” composed of
flatcars, tankcars, coalcars, and side-
door Pullman’s, furnished transporta-
tion for some 25 embryo “hoboes” on
their way to the Tech-Mercer basket-
ball game. In spite of the rain these
men enjoyed their trip to the Capital
city to see the muchly-talked-of game.
All of which goes to show that the
Mercer boys do have college spirit. And
the crowd wishes to thank the Emory
and Tech fellows for so kindly tendering
us a bunk for the night.—Ex.

“He who has a thousand friends,
Has not a friend to spare.
While he who has one enemy,
Shall meet him everywhere.”
—Emerson.

A man without a purpose is like a
vessel without a pilot. He drifts and
never arrives at the desired destination.
Every college man ought to have a pur-
pose in view, and as a college man that
purpose ought to be to get the most
there is to be had from a college career.

-—The Technique.
