4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

orth Carolina Collegiate Press Association
ag jh a Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Sécond Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

i . RRICHARDS..--...-....-Editor-in-Chief Forum Editor
\. me GaMBLE jR. ---Managing Editor Campus waiter
fl. H. Greens, Asst, Managing Editor s i‘ Editor
R. F, DAVIDSON.._......Assignment Editor ii jocial Eaitor
A. C. ‘ON: ot Athletic Editor -Literary Edi or
A. --Alumni_ Editor -Publicity itor

. H, McKEITHEN
REPORTERS’ CLUB

R., Pres. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W: 2. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. aa M. Scc.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. 6 IVES,’ J._C. SMITH, R. H.
CALHOUN, M. P. JONES, i R. Oe Cc. D.
COX, W. M. JONES, LR WALTHALL, Dy. B.
HEP ee ak MIEBUAN:
ELLIOTT, W. T. Aon eH. y i} ‘

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

} BRP eperesepye ny eee Business Manager

; ..C, WOO
L. A. TAYLOR, F. T. WOOLFOLR and W, 8: SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Veter Circulati Mana, Assi: in Circul: Depar! :
and C. D. TULLER pares S. C. FAIN P. C. HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Very few men have ever sprained their wrists in their cagerness to
turn over a new leaf,

ti

M. R. DOUBLES.
H. K. RUSSELL

D.

We imagine that if a vote could be taken at Davidson this week for
the most unpopular man of history, the decision would be unanimously
in favor of that unsung hero who first thought of examinations,

D: ‘
We wonder if the making of the Faculty picture last Monday might

not be termed as a howling success.
D.

In view of the fact that so many of the students have changed their
rooms since the burning of Chambers we are publishing this week a new
student directory which we hope will prove useful to all concerned.

= —--—]))----

If the Wildcats continue to play the brand of basketball which they

displayed last Saturday night they ought to run some one a mighty close

race for the state championship honors this year.
D
THE LITERARY SOCIETIES.
] have been handed down almost since the college began, but of
them all none has played a more important part.in the life of the
college than have the two literary societies. Organized almost as soon
as the college itself was founded, they have for more than three-quarters
of a century held a high place among the activities of the campus, and
more than a few orators of note have learned their first lessons'in public
speaking within the old society halls. +
Such was the love which the students at one time felt for these
organizations that a man who was not a society member was practically
ostracized by his fellows, and each society exercised practically the same
powers over its members as student government now holds. No other
phase of college life held quite so warm a place in the heart of a David-
son man as did his literary society. :
That time was not to last, however. As the college grew and other
student activities began to creep in, the societies began to lose their hold
on the campus. Little by little interest in this form of literary work
grew less, and little by little the number of society members dwindled un-
til in recent years their combined membership has been little more than
a third-of our total number of students, and, even then; the member-
ship of the societies has been so large that a member could hardly appear
on the program more than once or twice a year. :
Naturally such a condition tended to greatly impair the usefulness
of these organizations. Not only was there no incentive for more stu-
dents to’ enter the societies, but the members themselves were losing
many of the benefits which they should have received from their work,
and few of them took any real interest in it. This state of affairs was,
of-course, to be deplored, but no one seemed to be albsle to remedy it.
This year the first real steps toward improvement have been made.
Feeling that the only remedy for the trouble lay in an increase of the
number of societies, members: of both organizations proposed to with-
draw and organize anew with the consent of the mother societies. Such
a step would tend not only to increase the total number of society mem-

bers, but also to render their work more efficient, and it was decided on
without delay.

HERI are many institutions and traditions at Davidson which

The wisdom of this move was soon made apparent in the marked
increase of interest in literary society work and the new members
added to all four groups, The quality of the work now being done is
ample proof of the ‘fact that oratory can still-hold its place at Davidson,
and though there is still much room for improvement there is equal
reason for etcouragement. It is safe to say that for any man who really
throws himself into it, literary society work affords about the most val-
uable experience of any to be had in college life.. The ability to speak
can be acquired in no other way than by practice, and no better opportu-
nity for this can be found than that offered in this activity. The

thoughtful man will do well to pause and consider before passing up this
opportunity for’ self-improvement.

With Other Colleges

NOTED PIANIST APPEARS
AT ELON COLLEGE
Elon, N. C., Jan. 9.—In the first concert
given since her return from Europe, Miss
Frances Nash, noted pianist, ‘entertained
a large and appreciative audience here
last Friday evening. The musical pro-
gram was given under the auspices of
the Music Lovers’ Club of Elon College.
It was the third number of a series of
entertainments and concerts to be given
at Elon this season.
D.
CLEVER JAPANESE COMPANY
PLEASES N. C. C. W. STUDENTS
Greensboro, N. C., Jan. 13—The stu-
dents of the North Carolina College for
Women enjoyed last Thursday evening
in the college auditorium, The Program
of the Far East, presented by Mr. and
Mrs. Michitaro Ongawa, clever Japanese
entertainers who are making a tour of
this country under the management of
William B. Feakins, Inc., of New York.
The program, which sets forth Japa-
nese life and customs, consisted of talks,
stories, songs and dances to the accom-
paniment of Japanese musical instru-
ments, and a fashion show. A _ short
play, The Fox Woman, typical of mod-
ern Japanese dramatic art, concluded the
program,

D.
ELON COLLEGE LOSES ITS
DIRECTOR OF MUSIC
Elon, .N. C., Jan. 9.—Prof. Gilman F.
Alexander, who has been director of
music here for several years, has re-
signed his position in the department of
music in order to continue the study of
music in Philadelphia! Professor Alex-
ander is superseded as director of music
by Miss, Marion W. Corey, of Boston, a
graduate of Arthur J. Hubbard. In the
loss of Professor Alexander, Elon stu-
dents recognize and regret the loss of a
capable teacher and warm friend, but
confidence is expressed that his place
will be creditably filled by Miss Corey,
who comes with excellent recommenda-
tions.

.D
MANAGING EDITOR’S FOUR
INCHES.

A criticism of-our paper from outside
is that many of the news articles are not
written as news stories should be writ-
en, particularly in the manner of de-
veloping them. Some suggestions along
this line are given for our reporters.

The opening paragraph in a news story
is called the “lead.” There should be
put into the lead all the facts that a
reader who is in haste could wish to
know. These may be combined in a sin-
gle sentence, or better, in a group of
short sentences, of which the first states
the most important fact. The six ques-
tions that .the reporter should try to
answer are: When? Where? Who?
What? Why? and How? One should
not overdo the long running sentence
with its participial beginning. The
“Gbody” should develop all the points
summed up in the lead, in the order of
their importance, and should then add
any other details or facts that lend in-
terest.

The order of decreasing importance
should be observed throughout, both in
the lead and in the body of the story.
It is the simplest and easiest plan,’ and
will aid the reader and aid those who
make up the paper.

D.
DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR HAS
ARTICLE IN ARMY JOURNAL

In September the Military Department
held an essay contest in the Senior class
on the subject, “The Military History
and Policy of the U. S.” This contest
created much interest in the military
circles of Davidson. A committee com-
‘posed of Professors Hood, Erwin, and
Major Hearn .judged the essays. They
were graded on accuracy, knowledge of
the subject, presentation and expression.
There were a number of good papers
handed in ‘and it was difficult, indeed, for
the judges to decide which best con-
formed to the rules of the contest. —

\ After due consideration, it was decided
that Capt. J. M. Richards’ essay was the
best from all standpoints. Captain Mc-
Ilwaine’s was judged to. be the next: best.
The winning essay appeared in : The
Army and Navy Journal and received fa-
vorable comment by the editor. Also,

the article appears in the current issue

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The following article from the Macon
(Ga.) Telegraph wil be of interest to
the friends of our Managing Editor, who
is a brother of the Mercer student men-
tioned: J. H. M.

Robert Camble, Lanier High School
graduate and now the goal-shooting cen-
ter of the victorious Mercer basketball
tcam, was yesterday elected Master
Mercerian, the highest undergraduate
honor, leading all other candidates from
the senior class by the largest margin
ever accorded any student for this de-
gree. It was the first time a student of
Mercer University ever received the
honor over all other candidates on the
first ballot. He led the next candidate
by 151 votes.

He graduated from Lanier in 1917 and
was the first student to matriculate for
the Mercer School of Commerce, also
having that honor as the first matricu-
lant of the School of Journalism. He
has been the president of the School of
Commerce for four years and has also
led the School of Journalism since its in-
ception at Mercer University.

According to members of the faculty,
Gamble is the first student in many years
who stands high in scholarship and is
also active in athletic endeavors of the
college life. Basketball is his major
sport, and he won the game from Geor-
gia Tech last week by a flying field goal
in the last second of play, but he is also
active in class baseball, football and two
years ago was Mercer’s representative in
the S. I. A. A. tennis tournament.

Paying for Own Education.

“Bob,” as he is best known by the stu-
dent body of Mercer University and the
sporting fans of Macon, has made his
own way in the world since quite a lad
by means of his ability as an expert
stenographer and later as 4 newspaper
reporter. He is at present an associate
editor of the Mercer Cluster, and the
college correspondent of the Macon
Telegraph and Atlanta Journal.

His college and Macon friends declare
that he has well lived up to a quotation
in this year’s college annual:

“To what Mercer called him he has
yet to answer, ‘No.’”

The following is the sketch given ‘him
in the Mercer Cauldron, the college an-
nual:

Robert. M. Gamble, B. S. C., “Bob,”
Macon, Ga., April 6, 1900; S. A. E. Fra-
ternity, Phi Delta Society, charter mem-
ber of Quill Club.

1918-19: Sergeant, Mercer S. A. T. C.;
president School of Commerce; class
basketball; Glee Club; S. I A. A. tennis
tournament; chairman, commerce social
committee, four years.

1919-20: Varsity basketball; Glee Club;
circulation manager, Orange and Black;
Commerce representative students’ ad-
visory council; president Spanish Club;
vice-president School of Commerce; al-
ternate, Spring term debate; class base-
ball; manager tennis tournament,

1920-21: President, School of Com-
merce; manager Glee Club;. associate
editor Mercer Cluster; varsity basket-
ball; assistant manager basketball; pres-
ident Journalism class; Quill Club; class
baseball; Mercer correspondent Macon
Telegraph.
graph.

1921-22: President School of Com-
merce; associate editor Mercer Cluster;
chairman committee on constitution and
by-laws for Student. Tribunal; general
chairman campaign (successful) for 500
enrollment at Mercer, Fall 1921; presi-
dent Journalism class; vice-president se-
nior class and student body; varsity
basketball; historian Quill Club; Mercer
correspondent Macon Telegraph and At-
lanta Journal.

Student maxim: “Mercer first, al-
ways; Commerce second, but only to
Mercer.”

= ;

of the Infantry Journal... :

‘Captain Richards shows a knowledge
of his subject, and presents in a clear,
convincing manner what he believes. to
be a disastrous policy. for America—the
policy of unpreparedness. The writer
cites many instances from history where

this policy might have meant defeat... 4

—_
—_——— ——
a

Open Forum .

Start Thinking, '23!

No matter haw dbads thagst'laokafon”
short while, yet in,tipg.all will be bright
and merry onge, WAFER, So though cat

Present exams may, joam Jarge oni )the
horizon and seem to cast a gloomy spell

over everything, yet they too will pass
away in time, and we will soon forget all
about them—a few may not—and ‘the
campus will wake up and live again.

And as we look ahead,:the next big
event on the program is. jninfon: Spedl-
ing. Though it is oo fari ahead to. make
any definite plans—yebit‘is, toofar aireall
for the Juniors, aga class, bothvindivid-
ually and collectively, to get their brains
to work and do some gencral planning.
The class of ’22 certainly did themselves
proud in the occasion they pulled off last
year and left a record behind ‘that is
hard to beat. But the Juniors‘of this
year think themselyes equal in brain and
ability to those of fast: yaar,' andujustlty
so, but actions everspeakélotden: than
words, so they will have to ipriwe itito
the rest of the fellows) on the Hilk. They
will have problems to face, especially in
the matter of housing the visitors, that
were not so serious last year, but what
are difficulties for if they are not to
show what is really in a person.

So, ’23, let’s get our brains to work-
ing and show everybody thatsin spite of
difficulties, we can::ptit over the. best
Junior Speaking :that! this ‘old: hill ever
saw. ifs:

EAP ah yee hich |

“Buen principio, la mitad es hecha.”

Alumni, Take Note!
The Forum Editor:

You have had some good articles in
your department this year, and yet I
have noticed that only;once this; faJl have
you had any word, from jan, alumnus.
What is the matter?., Haye they lost, all
interest in the old ca}leges, I: know. this
can’t be the case, a Davidson man never
does that. Then, have they no ideas
that will help the old college,-or haven't
they seen anything lately that the col-
lege has done that they like? No, I still
don’t think that we have. hit the reason.
I think they don’t realize, that,your, de-
partment is open to,themjas; well as to
the men on,,the .campug and, thatjiany
article they send in, will; be; gladly, pning-
ed. And so I.am taking the -liberty to
appeal to all Alumni to. make use of this
column in the Davidsonian as much as
they can: Personally I enjoy. nothing
more than a little squib from some old
fellow with whom I used to run, but with
whom I have since lost,toych, givipfg.a
little word of advice .or praise..to his
younger brothers back on the; hill. I
know that it is.a]mgst impossible for you
to get these little articles unless:they are
sent to you, so I hope, that,we can all
co-operate with you.in making your
column the most helpful and interesting
in the paper. 4 fi

e

Hoping that I have not overstepped

my bounds, I remain,

Yours:ttuly}) fo otctiaedl

An:iQld :Rumpieite: '

Editor’s Note +The, appveutetteh, ae

hit the nail on the head. ‘This depart:

ment will do everything it can to co-

operate with the alumni in this matter.

Send in your article to the Forum Ed-

itor, The Davidsonian, and if it is
legible it will be printed.

THE SUCCESS FAMILY.

S14 ewe berg tn tes,

t

The father of Success is Work;

The mother of Success is Am-
bition. :

The oldest son is Common Sense;

Some of the other boys are Persez,,
verance, Honesty, Pherough;,.
ness, Foresight,;, Enthysiasm, .
and Co-operationg: { pyrsiharis

The oldest daughtér>is Chatacter;-

Some of her sisters are. Cheerful- °
ness, Loyalty, Courtesy; Care,
Economy, Sincerity and ‘Har-
mony; :

The baby is Opportunity.

Get well acquainted with the “old |
man” and you will be able to |
get along pretty well with the
rest of the family.

vate

