ROUNCE
RINITY

SONIAN|

D.C 7
VP 7

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 26, 1922

No. 6

MALCOLM LOCKHART SPEAKS
__TO-STUDENTS AT‘“Y” VESPER

Director of Campaign for Cham-
bers Speaks on Existing Cir-
cumstances Confronting
College Men

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of

the. Davidson Campaign Committee,
was the inspiring speaker at the Y. M.
C. A. meeting held in Shearer Hall
Sunday evening.
Harry Russell, “of the “Y” Cabinet,
presided over the meeting, while Buck
Currie led the singing. Cecil Dew and
Mill offered prayer for God’s blessings
on the meeting.

Bob Mcl.eod, Buck Currie, Vic
3rown and ‘Ted Jones made up the
quartette whose music the audience en-
joyed.

In beginning his address, Mr. Lock-
hart brought to the minds of his
hearers the fact that religious experi-
ences, as well as experiences of other
natures, are vital factors in the life of
man, He cited some of his own dif-
ficulties in earlier life, and pointed to
the Bible, the Holy Word of God, as
the answer to all the questions of life,
ot whatever nature they be.

At this point the speaker cited
Hebrews 11:14, “For as much then as
the children are partakers of flesh an
ilood, he also niniself likewise too«
part of the same; that through death
he might destroy him that had the
power of death, that is, the devil.” He
also cited Ezekiel 28:17, “Thine heart
was lifted up because of thy beauty,
thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by
reason of thy brightness: I will cast
thee to the ground, T will lay thee be-
fore kings, that they may behold thee.”

“The world,” said Mr. Lockhart,
“has got out of the atmosphere in
which it was created by God, This it
has been done under the leadership of
Satan. Woman believed the devil, and
man, through his love of the woman,
was led to disobey God.”

He spoke of the love story of Adam
and Eve as the greatest love story of
all time.

“By this. falling away of man God’s
“creation was blighted, and man was
withdrawn from fellowship with his
Maker. This was caused by man’s
lack of faith. Faith in Christ is a sav-
ing grace, whereby we receive and rest
upon Christ alone for our salvation,
as He is offered to us in the Gospel.

“This falling away of man called
for'a redeemer of man, to overcome
the power of Satan. It was for this
reason that Christ came into the world.
He lived a sinless life, so that, under
the law, he could not legally die. His
death upon the cross restored man to
fellowship with God.

“There is one way for us to get back
to fellowship with our Maker, and that
is through faith in Christ. Faith is
necessary in everything that is to be
accomplished. Faith in Christ is nec-
essary to gain eternal life.”

Mr. Lockhart is a man who has a
place in the heart of every student at
Davidson. His work in behalf of our
institution is among the greatest serv-
ice rendered by any man to our college.

D.

METHODIST PASTOR AWAY

Rey. R. L. Foster, of the Methodist
Church, has been absent this week at-
tending Conference. The members of
his church hope he will be returned to
this charge for another year.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE FOOTBALL SQUAD, 1922
First Row—Williams, Barron, Sappentfield, McDonald, Laird.
Second Row—Gentry, Sorrels, Fields, MacMaster, Shepherd, Captain Moore, Brice, Davis, Regan, Clarke, Long.
Third Row—Long, Vance, Mallory, Davis, Hendrix, Hunt, Crawford, Summers, Dick, Boggs, Coach Hugh Grey.
Fourth Row—Coach Murrill, Johnson, McCombs, Hastie, Rolson, White, Covington, Moore, Briggs, Cox, Alexander, Martin,
Fifth Row—Buck, Anderson, Morrow, Baker, [lunter, Patterson, Jones, Lamons, Long, ‘Thompson, Crayton, Gracy.
Sixth Row—Ballard, McMillen, Houghton, Cook, Long, Greene, Black, Alford, Hodgin,

Seventh Row---MeFall, Cox, Smith, Menzies, MeLaurin, Shepherd, DeArmond and Cox,

PLUCKY WILDCATS FIGHT VIRGINIA TECHMEN

TO A 7-7 DRAW AND UPHOLD THE TIME
- HONORED GLORY OF SPRUNT ATHLETIC FIELD

Coach Grey’s Fighting Felines Score Twc Touchdowns on V. P. I. Gobblers, but One Is Declared
Illegal by Referee Goss—Flake Laird Runs Seventy Yards for Sensational Tally — Hen-
dricks Runs Back Yards From Kick-Off Through Engineer’s Line — Biggest Throng Ever
Witnessed on Sprunt Field Sees Brilliant Wildcat Defense.

Before a madly cheering crowd of
3,000 people those scrapping Wildcats
came from behind against overwhelm-
ing odds and held the powerful Vir-
ginia Tech eleven to a 7-7 tie on Sprunt
Field last Saturday afternoon.

The spirit which prompted one of
the players when asked, “Can the
Wildcats do the impossible?” to reply.
“The word impossible is not in‘ the
Wildcat vocabulary,” was the spirit
which turned eleven men into eleven
snarling Wildcats who stood between
the Virginians and victory. To men-
tion the stars of the game would be to
mention all of the 15 Wildcats who
got in the game. It was a battle of
sheer grit and the Wildcats more than
held their own against the heavy Vir-
ginians. Never have harder tackling,
surer cutting, more dogged determi-
nation or a gamer defense been seen
on any football field’

Outweighed 14 pounds to the man
the Wildcats entered the game with
that never say die spirit which charac-
terizes all Davidson teams. Present-
ing one of the strongest line smashing
attacks of any Southern team. Time
after time the V. P. I. forwards would
smother the light Wildcat line and
their heavy backs would charge
through. Slowly but surely they would
march down within the shadow of the
goal posts and there the thin Red line
would brace and the ball would
change. hands. Four times the Wild-
cats, fighting with their backs to the

'
wall, held the Gobblers for downs,

In the first quarter the Wildcats
fought a losing battle, They held ‘Tech
for downs on the one-yard line and
punted out of danger but early in the
second quarter Wallace hit the line for
a one-foot gain-and the Gobblers’ only
touchdown, Rutherford drop kicked
goal.

Jim Hendrix returned the kick-off
43 yards but V. 2. 1. intereepted a pass
and started down the field. Then on
the 25-yard line Red Laird intercepted
a pass and aided by perfect interfer-
ence, raced 75 yards to a touchdown,
On the try for point Laird’s kick was
low but the ball hit Baker’s hand and
went over for the tying point. The
stands went wild and the latter part of
the quarter Davidson played V, P. I.
off its feet. A 25-yard pass to Davis
put the ball on the 10-yard line and on
the fourth down Laird went over on a
pass but the réferee ruled that he had
stepped out of bounds on the two-foot
line and it was V. P. I.’s ball. Tech
punted and again the Wildcats
marched down to the 20-yard line, but
a pass was intercepted on the 11-yard
line and after three plays the half was
up. :

In the third quarter the ball was
kept in midfield and Tech made one
first down. ‘Then in the final period
Tech’s weight told on the men who
had given all they had for Davidson
and they marched down the field. In-
side the 20-yard line the Wildcats

held and Martin punted 50 yards out
danger, Again the  Gobblers
marched down the field and again the
thin Red dine threw then back and
Martin punted onee more, ‘Then for
third time the ‘Techmen drove
down the field but a place kick failed
and it was Davidson’s ball.

Hunt gained three yards and the
game ended,

The 3,000 who had come to see the
team perform which held Centre so
well, had seen a physically inferior
team by pluck and gameness turn back
their opponents with! a 7-7 deadlock.

It was a great exhibition and the
alumni who saw the game will all say
proudly that the famous Davidson
spirit is still alive and that the Wild-
cats are and always will be fighters.

Faison and Davis on ends both
played wonderful games, while Clark
and McMasters at tackles, and Sorrels
and Davis at guards, bore the brunt. of
the Virginian’s line smashing attack
and held in the pinches. DeArmon

f
ot

hie

and Brice played great defensive
games, backing up the line. Shepherd

was forced out of the game in the first
period because of a game leg. ‘The
punting of Martin and Laird pulled
the Wildcats out of several bad holes.
Hendrix at quarter ran the team well
and made a spectacular 43-yard dash
through a broken field with practically
no interference. Laird’s great run
with the team’s interference gave the
(Continued on Page Five)

DAVIDSON STUDENTS EXCEED
QUOTA IN. CAMPUS CAMPAGN

$27,500 Is Subscribed by the
Faculty and Students for the
Replacement of Cham-
bers Building

With. the usual Davidson spirit, that
adinits of no defeat, the campus cam-
paign “went over.” Those of us who
had known Old Chambers as it stood a
year ago had, since the day of the fire,
been determined to put a new Cham-
bers, more magnificent and stately than
even the old, in its place. last Thurs-
day saw the fulfillment of that deter-
mination, when the student body went
over its $25,000 quota in a whirlwind
campaign. The holiday was not an
inducement—it . was merely — the
faculty’s means of expressing their
hearty support of the student body’s
efforts,

Mr, Malcolm Toekhart, director of
the campaign, believed in the old adage
that “a proposition that can be sold.at
home can be sold anywhere,” so he
came to’ Davidson to give the Davidson
nen a chance to show the country how
the thing ought to be done. The spirit
with which it was déne will be one of
the greatest helps in persuading others
to give aid to Davidson.

On October 4th a letter from the
campaign headquarters i& Charlotte
Was sent to every Davidson man, an-
nouncing the campaign, and simply
calling on the Davidson spirit. There
was*no need for more. On October
ISth the student body = met —im-
Pinediately after chapel services, -and
the plan of the campaign, and com-
mittees were announced. ‘There were
expressions f representatives of

from
the entire student body, from Seniors
to Freshmen, who voiced the spirt—
“Were going to do it.’ After the
dudent body meeting, the classes met
in different rooms in Shearer.[lall and
the campaign was for the most part,
put over right there, Of the three
upper classes, not a man failed to do
his part. Practically every bit of the
money pledged will be the result of
good hard work next summer, on the
part of every man in college. The
Seniors went over the top in 20
minutes; the Juniors followed in short
That night, at 9 o’clock, the
steering committee, appointed by the
committees from cach class, took hold
and every class except the Freshmen
went far over its quota, The quota
for the whole student body was $50 per
man, The Seniors, with 8&3 men,
averaged $57.83, a total of $4,800;
the Juniors, with 80 men, averaged
about $51.40; the Sophs, with 144
men, averaged $50.40. ‘The Freshmen
did not reach their quota, but made a
good showing, All of the faculty have
not vet been seen, but their subscrip-
tions will total approximately $5,000.

On Wednesday night when the cam-
paign had gone over, the committee
was unable to secure the key to the
big bell to announce the victory, so the
old bell at the commissary was used to
spread the glad news. Before chapel
Thursday morning, every one knew
that Davidson had again lived up to
her reputation.

Chapel on the morning of the 19th,
was a very different affair from that
which we usually sees Nearly every
member of the faculty was present, and
none of the student body seemed to
have any desire to be absent. The

(Continued on Page Eight)

WELL DONE WILDCATS—$27,000 FOR CHAMBERS.
