4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM.

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill’

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

i
EXCHANGE |

COLUMN

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication—must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
Editor-in-Chiet H. H. SMITH......eseeeee ees Forum Editor
First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN... ;+,Campus Editor
nd Managing Editor D, H. OGDEN. M. C. A. Editor
Assignment Editor W. 'T. ELLIOT ++-Social Editor
Athletic Editor H. M. MORRIS.. Literary Editor
i Editor W.. Z, BRADFORD -Press Editor

OXerrvereriereres Exchange Editor
PRESS. BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD.......-..e eee e ees Manager W. F. GALLOWAY.......Assistant Manager
enon MINTER, J.oN

MITH, C. F. BARRINGTON, J.C. MINTER, J. A, r

SYP LEB, Wp MeINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, BV. DD.
‘ BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

W. J. COOPER Business Manager ii ret

R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. FE. < 3. GU Eo ....4++++++-Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN......... Office Assistant

,UILLE
f. J. ROSCH........000-
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
Circulation Manager S$. C. FAIN

Assistants
FE. C.. MOOMAW

. Advertising Copy

WATT McCAIN........ Asst. Circulation Mgr.

R, B. LILES J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres. GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, H. B.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres. LAKE. TA. Jr. SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. McILWAINE, C. M. WALTHALL, D._B.
ALLISON, 0. J. McIVER, D. D. WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P. MAUZE, G W. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R. MOFFETT, A, N. WILLIAMS, J. M.
FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. II.

The play of Romeo and Juliet was presented in an interesting manner last
Saturday. The characters were well portrayed and true to life. Such a show
is a treat for Davidson and of a class that all who can should attend.

D
OUR MAIL CARED FOR

HE distance to the postoffice and the time wasted in going there and back

has long been causing dissatisfaction. ‘Those who have a letter or two

that they want mailed in time for a train and yet hate to lose the time for this

purpose alone have’ probably complained the most. Therefore all were glad to

hear last spring that a new postoffice would be built, and built so much nearer

the campus. However, an even better solution has been made for those who
simply want to mail letters.

This is in the form of a mail box, placed in front of dormitory row.
Several times a day, Baxter gathers all the letters from this box and carries
them to the postoffice. Everything that is put in this box about half an hour
before train time and before the office closes in the evening will be taken
down in time to get off. Those who are busy, and those who are lazy should
also be included, need no longer have ‘trouble in finding time or means by
which to mail their letters. Beyond doubt this is a very convenient and useful
improvement and will soon become extremely popular.

D

THREE“ISSUES OF A LIFE WORK

HE series of services held here by Dr. Walter L. Lingle which ended last]

Sunday was most inspiring. In each of these.he brought a message

that gave us something to think about. Possibly most of us are acquainted at

least’ to some extent with the Bible, but the splendid way in which he treated

the subjects he chose showed them to us in a new light. Whether he talked or

service, of personality, of Christ, or of money, he applied his thoughts so well

to our college interests and problems that. we were brought face to face with

facts that had not occurred to us before or that we hadn’t given the serious
consideration that we should.

The service which counted the most, however, and the one for which the
others served as a means by preparing our minds and hearts, and turning our
thoughts into proper channels, was at the closing meeting on Sunday evening.
Here the very vital problems of what we could and should do with our lives
was discussed. This is a matter that all of us have to think about in college.
The men in the lower classes, and even some in the upper classes, may feel
like putting off a decision and rather letting matters go as they are for the
time being, but sooner or later all must definitely decide what they will do.
Since this problem is one to be settled at college and one whose solution may
change our whole outlook on life, it is one that will stay constantly before us
until we do settle it.

When seriously considering the value of the right decision we all must
admit that we want to place our lives where they will count for the most. No
one claims that every man at Davidson should study for the ministry. If one
should decide to be a preacher when not called for that work, he makes almost
the mistake of one who decides not to preach when everything within him tells
him that he ts called. But as Doctor Lingle advises, we can give our lives to
Christ and let Him tell us where they can be of the most service, in what place
‘they will be spent with the greatest satisfaction for us, and do most for Him
and for our fellow men.

Besides the light that Doctor Lingle gave in his services to those who have
not yet decided upon their life work, the personal interviews he held were of
great benefit to them. These were also a help to those who have definite plans
for their future and enlightened them as to their opportunities. The entire
ies Of services and conferences was certainly beneficial to Davidson. Doctor
gle is due much thanks and appreciation on our part. Now that he has
however, we do not want to let what he has left with us fail to bring
nor do any want to take their minds off their life work decision until
‘feached a definite and satisfying conclusion.

AA nan SC SSC LAN

[ i [ ¢
Nothing on Venus
Senior—Nowadays clothes make
the woman.”
Fresh—‘‘However, Venus
success,”’—Silver and Gold

was a

First Englishman—“Charley did you
hear that joke about the Egyptian
guide who showed some tourists two
skulls of Cleopatra—one as_a girl and
one as a woman ?”’ ;

Second ditto—“‘No, let’s heart it.”—
Gargoyle.

Hle—This storm may put the light
out. Are you afraid?”

She—"Not if you take that
cigarette out of your mouth.”—College
Humor,

XN good name will wear out, a bad
name may be turned; a nick-name lasts

1) forever.—Exchange,

Love is like wine; it improves with
age.

Cross-eyed people necessarily look
crooked.

Never judge a woman by her tele-
phone voice.—Va, Tech.

“Polly Peaches shows poor taste in
always going out in a high wind.”

“Yes, but she shows good form,”

Tlopements are certainly becoming
the rage. Just this morning we read of
a horse running away with a young
widow.—Ex.

We wonder if the line a woman
slings her husband for a new dress
could be called a clothes line ?—Ex.

The World’s Great Need

A little more kindness and a little less
creed;

A little more giving and a little less
greed; ; 4

A little more smile and a little less
frown;

A little less kicking a man when he’s
down;

A little more “we” and a little less “T.”

A little more laughs and a little less
cry;

A little. more flowers on the pathway of
life;

And fewer on graves at the end of the
strife.—Selected.

T).

TENNIS TEAM WILL BE
PICKED IN TOURNAMENT

With the exception of the football
team which seems to be fighting an up-
hill battle, the main object of atten-
tion is the tennis tournament, being
played off at odd moments. Judging
by the slowness with which the. tour-
nament is being played off ‘odd
moments” seem to be a rare thing with
some of the entries,

Everybody remembers the good
team that represented Davidson on the
clay courts last. year, especially at the
State matches, This year Davidson is
confronted by a serious proposition.
Three of last year’s team, Ormond,
Cunningham and Wilkinson did not
return to Davidson this year. So this
leaves three important positions to be
filled.

The filling of these places is the
main object of the tournament. The

all probability be chosen. Next spring
another tournament of similar nature
will be held. The two of them should
bring to light some men handy with
the racket and good enough to defend
Davidson’s honor on the courts.

In the upper bracket Price has gone
to the finals by defeating Black, Wells,
Woods and Fraser. Fraser seemed to
be on the way to the championship by
defeating McBryde, Sinclair and Beall,
but he was forced onto the sidetrack
ry. Harry Price in a singular match.
Fraser won the first two sets, 6-1, 6-0.
Price came back strong and took the
next three to the tune of 6-4, 6-3, 6-4.

winner-and-the-two runners-up Will if |”

This is typical of Price’s game, to

HOW ABOUT THE
CAROLINA GAME?

It is well understood that Davidson’s
football season so far has been disap-
pointing. Save in two games our team
has failed to function properly or our
opponents have simply put it over on
us. Or it may be a jinx on our trail.
Choose which you will. We realize we
don’t like it and there are none who
feel this way over it more than the
players themselves. I for one feel sure
they are not laying down and it is up
to us for them to feel that we are not
either.

With the past behind us we have
one game of paramount interest and
importance-in—the near future. In
Carolina we find our chief opponent;
to beat her would mean more to us in
many respects than to win any other
game on our’schedule, including those
that are past. Every year we show
more fight in this game than in any
other. We have got to show that fight
this year for we meet in Carolina a
team that held Yale to three touch-
downs and made one itself. So the
chances of our winning are not to be
banked on, Our one dependence is in
the knowing that our team has showed
the real stuff this year and feeling that
it can do it again. Then a good game
with her will blot out much of the un-
favorable past. This game is the
climax of our football season. It is
our chance to redeem ourselves, to
show that our games with Tech and V.
I. 1. were not off days for those teams,
to make this State take our games with
Wake Forest and Trinity with a grain
of salt.

‘To do all this every man on the
squad will go his limit. Every true
son of Davidson should do no less.
With the game to be in Charlotte every
man here should by all means go, Bor-
row the money if you haven’t the stuff
to go on—it won't take much, Think
of it as an investment in the reputa-
tion of the college, as it surely is.

We fellows here have put up the
right spirit a few times this season.
But mostly we have yelled when we
won and whined when we lost. It
doesn’t take any spirit to do this: it is
only the natural inclination. Any baby
will laugh when he is pleased and
whine when things don’t suit him.
Can't we reasonably suppose that the
fellows on the team feel worse about it
than we do whether it’s their fault or
not? If we can’t support our team
LOSE or WIN and go to Charlotte
backing it to the man then our spirit is
indeed dead. B. W.

encourage his opponent at the begin-
ning and then pass around the defeat.

In the lower bracket, Trotter elimi-
nated Walthal and Elliott, Morris
eliminated McCutcheon and Moore,
Paul Price eleminated Wells and
Brown, and Lawson forfeited to
Staley. Staley and Murray were play-
ing their match with one set each and
three games each on the third set
when they had to stop on account of
darkness. The winner of this match
will play Trotter, and the winner of
that match plays the winner of the
Price-Morris match to see who goes to

the finals.
TD.

POPCORN INDUSTRY PUTS

IN SUDDEN APPEARANCE

What makes the Wildcats wild? The
honor lies between peanuts and pop-
corn. The popcorn industry seems to
have the ascendancy at the present
time by virtue of the installation of a
modern Peerless popcorn roaster, some
say for the roasting of popcorn, others
say in competition to the popular
Peaniit” Parcher. “Nevertheless, it is
here and occupies a prominent and
lucratiye position immediately in front
of Smiley’s Emporium,

To say that business is good for the
popcorn magnates is needless. Busi-
ness is booming as is evidenced by the
tie-up in sidewalk traffic whenever the
mail hounds press forward to Uncle
Sam’s stamp shop. Some even at-
tribute the V. P. I. game traffic to this
youthful industry, but it has been
proven that the innocent “popper” was
not a Davidsonian at the time men-
tioned. During loafing hours a crowd
can always be seen around the roaster,
some to invest their shekels, others

merely interested in the internal | I

‘ CAMPUSISMS

By O. J. ALLISON °
John D. Laws received a fractured

shoulder from a fall in front of
Rumple Rormitory. The water supply
is expected to increase now that John
D. is incapacitated for throwing it at

unsespecting pedestrians,

Messrs W. D. Northrop, M.
Yeargen, E. S. Faison, John D. Baker,
Albert Simpson and J. J. Appleby de-
cided last week that continuous study
was too strenuous on the constitution,
so they rested from their toil a few
days in the infirmary.

The inmates of East Dormitory have
gone to considerable trouble to beau-
tify the living room of that building. A
Victrola ‘has been purchased, and a
number of magazines are to be found
on the table.

In the Monroe High-Scrub game
last Friday Ted Covington unfortu-
nately had his shoulder knocked out of
place. Ted played a wonderful game
until his injury was received.

Henry Morris handed in a thesis on
English V the other day in which he
attempted to uphold the name of his
race. His subject was “The Jew.”

Izzy ‘Thames—“‘Oh boy, but I’d like
to be a census.”

Dave—“Why ?”

Izzy —"Decause it embraces 180,000
women.”

Some seem to think that a course in
spelling at Davidson would be a very
valuable asset.

Overheard at a basketball game:

First Girl—“Why did Nappy get put
out of the game?”

Second Girl—‘For holding.”

First Girl—“Oh isn’t that just like
Nappy ?”

It is probable that a pool room will
be started soon since a supply of cue
balls have put in an appearance in the
persons of Ernest Regen, Fresh Mur-
ray and Cackle Crow.’ Twick Bosticix
and Snag Bailey will probably join the
aforementioned trio, since they were
almost persuaded as The Davidsonian
goes to press.

When George Hodgin took Harry
Russell’s invitation to accompany him
to church lightly Sunday night, Harry
promptly picked George twp and car-
ried him on his back.

A question on the lips of many
nowadays is: “Why does Johnnie
Adams go to Huntersville so often ?”

_Pablo Price and Crown Prince
Young, as usual, spent Saturday night
in Charlotte.

Many “Juliets” will probably prot
by the play given Saturday night by
the Devereux Company. The Romeos
here are grateful to Mr. Devereux for
giving them a new line.

mechanism of so marvelous an inven-
tion, The Georgians even become
reminiscent and again pull that time
honored tale about the hot weather in -
Georgia, causing the corn to pop, and
the subsequent freezing to death of
the mule who thought it to be snow.

_ Anyway, this new addition to the
industrial boom now on at Davidson
has been established, so—turn the
crank, Mooney!

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

