THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

5

LITERARY NEWS _.

DAVIDSON SOON TO HEAR
GREAT WOMAN ORATOR

Davidson is to have a rare treat on De-
cember 12th when Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen,
America’s foremost woman orator, speaks in
Shearer Hall. Her address on Modern
Arabian Knights will undoubtedly be one of
the outstanding events of our fall semester.
Mrs. Owen is the daughter of William J.
Bryan, America’s great Commoner, She
has inherited much of her father’s talent and
her talk will be of interest to every student.
Mrs. Owen, with her husband, Major Regi-
nald Owen, of the British army, has trav-
eled extensively through England, Egypt, the
West Indies and America, also having made
a journey around the world. During the
war she served_in_important positions in-re-
lief work. Besides being a woman of un-
usual ability and broad experience, she has
been a distinct success as a lecturer. Her
command of the English language and her
direct and convincing delivery have acquired
for her nation-wide fame, and Doctor Lingle,
chairman of the college platform committee,
is to be congratulated in securing her to
speak to us.

WALLACE REID TO BE
SHOWN IN “CLARENCE”

Those who think they know Wallace Reid
may be a little disappointed in “Clarence.”
This production reveals an entirely new side
of Wallie. In this picture he plays the
shabby whimsical doughboy who comes into
a family and, with the aid of his saxophone,
sets everything aright. This is quite a de-
parture from the alert and immaculate Wal-
lie we are used to. Nearly everyone who
sees this picture will admit that it is an un-
usually clever piece of work. It is one of the
masterpieces of William De Mille. It is a
meticulously careful transcription of the play
of the same name by Booth ‘Tarkintgon. All
those who are familiar with contemporary
literature of the lighter sort will remember
that he is the author of “Penrod,” “Seven-
teen,” and other well known comical novels.
The play, “Clarence,” was said to be the
most comical play in New York last season.
The adaptation is by Clara Beranger. It has
been said that more can be learned about the
play from the screen version than from the
play itself. Mr. De Mille has provided
“Clarence” with an exceedingly charming
governess in the person of Agnes Ayers and
a most engaging Cora played by May Mc-
Avoy. The people who have been wishing
for a real good comedy Will be well pleased
with “Clarence.”

“Clarence” will be shown in Davidson Sat-
urday night, December 9th.

— =p
BOARDING HOUSE MENU
VARIED AND PLENTIFUL

With the passing of Thanksgiving and
Senior Week at Davidson, 31 turkeys passed
through the Valley of the Shadow of Death
and into the multitude of voids beyond. Each
boarding house spread before its patrons a
feed worthy in all respects’ of the name
Thanksgiving Dinner and brought to the
minds of those who remained on the hill
memories of a similar day at home. /

The menus were so elaborate and so long
that they could not be published, but in each
case the tables*were adorned with huge tur-
keys with dressing and cranberry sauce. Gar-
dens of celery and great tanks of salads were
consumed in short order, while the cakes if
broken and placed crumb by crumb, would
have made a solid line from Davidson to
Charlotte. _

Worthy of special mention was the dinner
given by the Misses Shewmakers to the 150
or more boarders who board at the Trough.
This boarding house claims the distinction of
having as guests on the momentus evening
three members of the faculty—Doctor Mar-
tin, Mr. Jackson and Professor Wagner.
Gamble acted as toastmaster and presented
the three gentlemen in order.

Doctor Martin in his discourse on the
course of food after being eaten, by means
of ‘obscure chemical terms, conclusivety
showed that Thanksgiving Turkey is the
cause of pleasure, discomfort, _and especially
action.

Mr. Jackson's joke was followed by two
splendid pastoral anecdotes by Professor
Wagner who closed the after dinner
speeches.

D.
PURPLE HURRICANE SUCCEEDS
(Continued from Page 1)

Nappy Davis, who ran across for a touch-
down: a

Davidson started off with a rush in the
opening period and made five first downs to
Furman’s one, keeping the ball in Furman
territory the whole period. During this
period: Gig passed:to Spratt for a gain of: 40

yards, placing the ball on Furman’s 20-yard
mark as the period closed. Just after the
second period opened, Gig dropped back to
the 30-yard line and sailed the ball over the
bar for the first three points.

Poteat returned Shepherd’s kick-off to the
41-yard line and from there the powerful
Furman backs hammered the Wildcat line
for 59 yards and a touchdown on 14' plays.
Dizzy McLeod failed on the extra point and
Furman led, 6-3. For the remainder of the
half the ball see-sawed up and down the
field and the period closed when Hendrix
received a punt on his own 16-yard line.

At the opening of the second half Shep-
herd kicked off to McCurry who returned 27
yards. The Wildcat line held against the
Purple backs and Poteat punted to Hendrix
on the 30-yard line. ‘Thesit was that an
end run, an off tackle play and a forward
pass netted a touchdown, Gig provided the
longest and prettiest play of the game when
he ticked off 45 yards around end, His stride
bafiled the Furman tacklers and he raced
down the field sidestepping and dodging until
McCurry brought him down.  MeCurry
managed to stop Gig but the Hurricane was
not strong enough to check the onward
march of the Red and Black and after Spratt
hit the line for two yards, Nappy carried
the ball across. Gig’s toe accounted for the
extra point and the score stood 10-6.

Shepherd kicked off again and the Fur-
man backs crashed down the field to the
26-yard line where the thin Red line held
firm and took the ball on downs. After run-
ning several plays, Shepherd punted half
the length of the field and it was Furman’s
hall on their 25-yard line. Again the Hur-
ricane marched down the field and in 13
plays carried the oval across for their sec-
ond counter. McLeod kicked goal and the
Purple led, 13-10.

‘There was no more scoring during the
game, the Wildcat aerial attack proving a
real menace to the Baptists, but an inter-
cepted pass saved them as the third period
closed. ‘They then hammered the Wildcat
line and marched down to the 11-yard mark,
only to lose the ball on downs. ‘Then it was
with but a few moments to play that the
Wildcats unloosed a bewildering end run-
ning and forward passing attack which car-
ried the ball into Furman territory as the
final whistle blew. During this advance Jim
Hendrix dropped back to hurl a forward
pass and after dodging several rushers, sce-
ing. no one open, shot around end for a 17-
yard gain. Then a pass to Nappy gained 13
yards as the game ended.

Besides the great credit which must go to
the six veterans who fought their last grid
battle ’Lias Faison’s work at end deserves
special mention. He boxed in his man un-
failingly and gave Gig the opportunity to
get away for his spectacular gains by his
stellar work. On the other end Nappy
starred as a receiver of passes, gaining 55
yards by the aerial route and carrying across
the Wildcat’s only touchdown. Both these
ends were responsible in large measure for
the fine showing of the team.

Jim Hendrix, at quarter, ran his team well
and aimed his attack at the vulnerable points
in the Furman defense with good results.
Red McComb starting his first game, showed
up well and played a great defensive game.
His interference helped Gig in his circling
the ends.

The line plunging of Dempsey and Poteat
was the main feature of the Baptist offense,
but it was Oliver McCurry who staved off
defeat for the Hurricane. Twice Gig Shep-
herd passed all but the safety man and once
tripped on his interference but on the other
occasion McCurry nailed him before he
could slip past.

In the line Puss Cox at guard and Dizzy
McLeod at tackle, were the stellar perform-
ers for Furman. They were adepts at open-
ing up holes and Playgd well on the defen-
sive. :

The line-up and summary:

FURMAN (13) DAVIDSON (10)
Position

Bradley .. .C..M. Davis

Left End
MSVeletalsists .. McMasters
Left Tackle
CORT eis cons cae iie sone sicetiee Oras “Davis

Left Guard

Burnett

Coleman ’.............seeceeeereeees Brice
Center

Buyck .........++0+ssse00 00+ + sbewe-Sorrels
Right Guard

McLeod ........... haileduicet s sieves Olatk
Right Tackle

Carter .. se eesecekecoceecseyecceseees Faison
Right End

McCurry .....00.e.eceeeeeececee Hendrix
Quarterback

Poteat 3s. ss ssessiecehieienie iuses Shepherd
Left Halfback '

Moore (c)

McComb

"Fullback

Furman scoring—Touchdowns, Dempsey,
Poteat. Goal after touchdown—McLeod.
Davidson scoring—Touchdown, C. M. Davis.
Goal after touchdown—Shepherd. Goal
from field from placement—Shepherd.

Substitutions—Furman: Dempsey for
Chewning. Davidson: Cox for Sorrells,
DeArmon for McComb, Long for Cox, Dick
for DeArmon, Mallory for Faison.

Referee—Stewart (Dartmouth). Umpire

—Sampson (St. Albans). Head linesman—
Black (Davidson) substituting for Mc-
Dougal (N. C. State).

D.

FORMER DAVIDSON MAN
(Continued from Page 1)
times, -Richards--had— many friends~ on- the
“Hill” He was a member of both the Min-
isterial and Volunteer bands and will go to
the mission fields when his education is com-
pleted.

Richards was a ‘Kappa Alpha and his all-
around ability is shown in the fact that he
was an O, D. K. and amimir, as well as
valedictorian of his class. [is literary work
brought him the position of editor-in-chief
of the Davidsonian,

Although “Mac” never won his “D"” he
worked hard in both baseball and foothall
and was always a familiar figure on Sprunt
Vield where his ceaseless pep did its bit to
help practices along.

D.
REVEREND McKINLEY MAKES
(Continued from Page 1)
edge of them, that they had been
Jesus.”

“Personality,” said Brother Mark, “is a
great gift, and a great responsibility. Your
personality compels people to think good or
had of you. Christ looked at the rich young
ruler, and THis personality won the man.
Christ won him because He loved him,

“Men take knowledge of us, whether or
not we have been with Him. It is easy to

with

determine whether we have been with Him.
We may not have great personalities, but
such as we have, we can use powerfully for
or against Him.

“He that receiveth you receiveth Me.
What kind of a person do people receive
when they receive you and me? Are we the
best real men we can be? Not unless we are
devoted to Him and not unless we are one
with Him, can we be such,

“One thing keeps us from being the best
possible men. ‘That one thing is sin. Sin is
the substitution of your own will for’ God’s
will. It is an irreligious lawlessness. Every
man has a good side, a Christian side. We
are apt to overlook this side in man. Over-
looking the Christian side of man is the re-
sult of sin. Selfishness is a consequence of
sinfulness.

“Weakness and slothfulness are two other
direct results of sin, We let Satain into our
lives, for he always attacks on the weak side,
the side weakened by sin. Feéhletiess paves
the way for Satan. And we fall away from
God, ’

’

“Sin spoils our lives.” ‘The speaker pre-
sented examples of drunkards, of men that
lived only for self, whose lives Were spoiled
hy their sins. He also showed that sin cru-
cifies. It crucifies the one committing the
sin, it crucifies our Lord, it crucifies the
man’s family, and it crucifies those with
whom he comes in contact.

“It renders us useless. By committing sin
we blunt ourselves. If there is something in
your life that spoils you, that crucifies Christ,
that renders you useless to Him, ‘Turn over
a new leaf.”

The speaker called attention to the woman
in scripture who wanted to be saved. She
went to Christ and He forgave her sins. She
was made whiter than snow. Men took
knowlewge of her that she had heen with
Jesus.

“You are here, toy “Prepare yourselves for 1
greater work,” Sid Brother Mark. | “The
spiritual side of your training is most im-
portant if you are to be truly educated. You
will go out from here and touch the lives of
others. Set yourself toward Jesus that men

may see that you have been with Him. Make
yourself such a man that when men receive
you, they receive the real Christ.”

The service was closed by another selec-
tion by the Queens Octet and a benediction
pronounced by Doctor Richards.

D.

SENIORS DELIVER ORATIONS

(Continued from Page 1)
would be affected and decay set in.

Speaking next on “The Orphans in the
Storm,” W. A. Gamble compared those .na-
tions indebted to the United States to the
two orphans of a recent photoplay, caught
in the storm of the French Revolution. He
questioned the ability of the European na-
tions’ to pay and support that party which
holds that the war debt should be cancelled.

“The Old Oak,” the next speech, by F.
S. Johnston, dealt with the influence’ of Cal-
vinism, upon present day religious conditions.
He told of its influence on religious doc-
trines and of their influence upon the world;
treating especially of the influence of Cal-
vinism upon the Presbyterian Church.

The last speaker was J. W. Baldwin,
whose subject was “The Life of the Na-
tion.” Tt was easy to tell that Haldwin must
have come from the farm as he dealt: with
the farmer and the farm as furnishing the
life of the people. With gradual migration
from the farm to the city he showed that the
inevitable result must be lack of production
of farm products and a consequent lack of
food.

D———.
MANY ENJOYABLE FEATURES
(Continued from page 1)

Brother Mark, addressed them. The Queens

College octet delivered two selections.

From beginning to end, Senior speaking
was a success. For some unknown reason,
Jupiter Pluvius always rules the heavens at

‘Ithis time, but the life of the party is not

affected. ‘The festivity is a happy medium
hetween business and pleasure, for it gives
ample time for the preparation and deliver-
ing of the required speeches, and at the same
time is one of the three times in the year
when good times predominate.

» PORTRAIT OF J. DALTON BY JOHN LONSDALE #
- The Quaker who made
hemistry
Chemistry a Sclence
AVENDISH had shown __poleon made his brother, Joseph,
4 that two volumesof hy- king of Spain. This was considered
drogenandoneofoxygen a political event of tremendous
SA always combine com- importance. But Joseph left no
pletely to form water and nothing lasting impression, while Dalton,
else. Proust, a Frenchman, had by his discovery, elevated chem-
proved that natural and artificial istry from a mass of unclassified
carbonates of copper are always observations and recipes into a
constant in composition. science.
“There must be some law in Modern scientists have gone bes
this,” reasoned Dalton (1766- yond Dalton. They have found
1844), the Quaker mathematician _ the atom to be composed of elec-
and school teacher. That law he trons, minute electrical particles.
proceeded to discover by weighing In the Research Laboratories of
and measuring. Hefoundthateach the General Electric Company
element has a combining weight much has been done to make this
of its own. To explain this, he theory practically applicable so
evolved his atomic theory—the that chemists can actually predict
atoms of each element are all the physical, chemical and elec- c
alike in size and weight; hence trical properties of compounds yet
a combination can occur only in undiscovered.
definite proportions. In a world of fleeting events
Dalton’s theory was published the spirit of science and research
in 1808. In that same year, Na- endures.
G ectri
eneral@Electric
General Office Company Schenectady, NY.
(eae 95-626-HD
& Se a ee eee as 2
