The DAVIDSONIAN

rth Carolina Collegiate Press Association
meecamker of Southuow CoMegate Pred Arcee

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” |

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

ti for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
pealte et a Aguciag received from an unknown source will not be published.

SON sccsscccstunes Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH....--.-.-.-.-.---..Forum Editor
DD. HERING -First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN.- Campus Editor
W. M 5 econd Managing Editor D. H, OGDE} # M._C. A. Editor
BOT Assignment Editor W. T. ELLIO’ ;Social Editor
I: He --Athletic Editor H. M. MORRIS. iterary Editor
BC. -.-Alumni Editor W. Z. BRADFORD. -Press Editor
er Wi Mie COXEE assess cuassccs. Exchange Editor y
’
REPORTERS’ CLUB.
a ETT, A. N,
BROWN, W. P., Pres. ONES, J. R. MOFFETT, A.
SMITH, R. H. Vice-Pres. ONES, R. R. fea tay Mil An
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. NOX, W. I. MOSS, . M.
ALLISON, O. J. LACY, T. A, PRICE, H, B.
BITZER, R. McILWAINE, C. M. TULLER, Cc. D.
CALHOUN, M. P. McIVER, D. D. WALTHAL | 4 D. B.
KARN yy a R. MAUZE, G. W. W. HARTON, D. B.
FEWELL, ED, WILDMAN, A. C,

RTERS: CURDTS, J. W.; POMEROY, W. L.; TROTLER, J. M.;
AUSTIN, J URIGGS, i PATTON, iF in’; McLEAN, G.; WEEKS, E. E.; SPRAGINS,
7. D.; CALHOUN, L.'E.; SHARPE, W. H.; PATTERSON, P.M.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

4 COOPBRisisicccsscce Business Manager

WwW. > :
JAMES ALLEN, J. H, DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
\TT McCAINa...---.-- Circulation Manager Assi in Circulation Department:
SICH HAINGaaeeL=: sat, Circulation Mgr. R. B. LILES FE, THROWER

E. C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

. EDITORIAL

Our’ victory over Wake Forest last Friday and previous defeat of
Randolph-Macon gives us a perfect record. What more could we ask of
Davidson debaters ! a

D
With mid-term tests behind us and only five more weeks until

exams, everyone should do some hard studying and make these last
weeks really count.

D
Aren’t some of us_about to forget that chapel is a devotional exer-
cise, not a place for/riotous assembling? A little more deference to the

speakers and a little less noise by the students would certainly be an im-
provement. :

D

We see by the press reports that some one has invented a serum
which will make a man tell the truth. Now, why doesn’t somebody.
come forward with an anti-toxin for the spring fever?

D
A BENEFICIAL CHANGE.

HERE is no surer way of success than to make careful plans in

advance. We have for the first time this spring a chance to

select our courses for the coming year exactly as they will be
taught. The catalogues that have been published heretofore contained
only the list of required and elective studies, and the courses a student
chose beforehand very likely would have to be changed later when he
got a copy of the schedule of recitations, Oo

In this year’s catalogue, however, all have noticed and had their at-
tention called to the new feature, a complete schedule of next year’s
recitations. After the faculty has completed this so early, no one should
fail to make use of the opportunity to plan for himself a more successful
year, and one in which he.is sure to have the courses he wants.

To know what is in the course we take up is a matter of great impor-
tance, and everyone has time now to talk over anything he is in doubt
about with the professor concerned, and not tely on information he
may have heard from someone else. During the present year, also, there
has been quite a pronounced tendency on the part of a large number to
drop courses and possibly try others in their places. As a usual thing
the substitute has not been as near what was wanted as the original
selection. It should be very beneficial to all who have done this to be
able to get straightened out now: for the coming year,

Another feature is the proposed switch to the honor system from
the ticket plan. ‘This change will be quite helpful to many men who
have been working with a number of lab-sciences, and none should fail to
study out carefully what is to be required in the future and how he can
best line up his work with the new requirements. For a long time
those taking the science courses have complained about the extra num-
ber of hours that they needed for their lab-work for which they. got no
additional credit. This change should be welcome to them.

It is possible, further, that some of the large number of failures this
year were due to courses being taken on the spur of the moment. All
chance of this can now be eliminated by the three classes that will be
back next year. Such an Opportunity as we now have should not be
overlooked by any. . Begin planning at once exactly what you need, and
find out what you will get in all the courses you plan to take. In this way
everyone will be able'to have a much more suitable and profitable year.

Another beneficial result will be seen in the size of the classes. At
present we have some that are so large one hardly receives the per-
sonal benefit that used to be had here. In other classes there are bare-
ly enough men to justify them. By the estimate in advance now being

_made of the number of men wanting each course, better arrangements
will be possible, which will bring an improvement we were beginning
to feel’a need for. Thus, while the courses picked out now can be
changed before ‘September~1, great care and thought will prove a de-
_ Sirable thing-in securing what you nced and want.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922,

Open Forum

CARELESS? WATCH YOUR STEP!

This spring there has been a vast
amount of talk about stealing going on
in the dormitories. Articles of every
description have been reported as miss-
ing. Sums of money of varying values
have been lost in mysterious way. In
fact many have found it unsafe to leave
anything. of value out from under lock
and key.

Fellows this ought not to be. None
cnjoys the fact that they can’t leave
their valuables in their rooms without
danger of their being taken. It was only
a few years ago since a man could leave
‘his money on his table and go out leay-
ing his door open without the slightest
thought of its being taken. Only since
the S. A. T. C. has there been this evil
on our campus. We have almost
gotten back to normal in all other
phases of our college life and it’s now
time that we put a stop to this nefarious
practice. If there’s anything men hate
it’s a thief. How many of us have said
that we wouldn’t stop a¥ anything if we
cculd only catch someone in our rooms
stealing ?_-

Many of us have aided these few men
amongst us who are on the wrong path.
Haven’t we all heard Freshmen tell of
taking someone else’s cap just because
they have missed their own or have
heard members of the R. O. T. C. brag
ct getting a cap from the boarding
house? Many others have grown ex-
ceedingly careless about returning’ bor-
rowed articles and even borrowing things
without securing the owner’s permis-
sion, Haven’t you accused somebody of
stealing some of your property and af-
terwards found that some of your friends
had it without your knowing it. Fellows,
this unbridled borrowing is an exceed-
ingly dangerous thing. Many men have

become so used to this habit that there

is not much difference between it and
stealing, What, difference does it make
to you if a man gets your property with
or without the intention ofereturning it,
if you don’t get it back?

Let's begin right now to break our-
selves of this loose habit of borrowing
promiscuously and to frown on this evil
of stealing on our campus. We can rid
ourselves of it if we only will. Get be-
hind the Student Council and help them
all you can to make Davidson a safe
place for everyone's property.

BOOSTER.
D.

WHY TAKE THE ADVANCE COURSE
R. O. T. C.?

It is not the purpose of this article to
tty to persuade its readers to sign up
for the Advanced Course, but merely to
Present in a sane common-sense way, a
few of the advantages of such a course
to which the Freshmen or Sophomores,
being compelled to take R. O. T. C., and
that without pay, naturally is not in+
clined to give proper consideration until
perhaps it is too late to take up the
course,

In the first place, the course itself be-
comes more a survey of matters of gen-
cral interest rather than a process of
having the basic principles of military
training drilled into one’s head and
shoulders. In the Advance Course the
future: officer is given the opportunity
of obtaining a broad view and practical
grasp of the principles which determine
‘a nation’s military policy by an interest-
ing survey of the military history of our
own and other leading nations and of
the influence of modern world problems.

Again the cadet officer has the train-
ing in practical leadership which not
only raises him from the rank of those
who are entirely the led but which also
will be a great practical help in obtain-
ing those qualities of leadership which
are necessary for success in any profes-
sion for success in any profession. Prac-
tical and psychological lectures on the
characteristics and qualifications of, a
leader give the student a clearer under-
standing of the basis upon which such
qualities must be developed.

The matter of college credit for work
done in this department is a matter
which deserves consideration, A full
three-hour credit is given for each year
of the Advance Course. The two classes
per week for which a reasonable amount
of preparation is. required cover in a

more or less casual way such subjects

With Other Colleges

Queens College, Apr. 12—One of the
most brilliant events of the college year
was the Sophomore-Senior Banquet
held in Pi Hall, Saturday night, April 1st.
A five course dinner was served by the
Queens Blues staff. The Hall was made
attractive by the use of Easter decora-
tions. In the center of the table was a
large Easter egg which on being broken
reminded one that it was also April-
Fool-Day because it was no egg at ‘all
but contained little bags of confetti.
Toasts were given between courses.

Following the banquet a Keith’s
Theater party was given.

Queens College, Apr. 12—The new
Queens Blues staff for the year 1922-23
has been elected. Those who will com-
pose the staff are: Lois Rogers, editor-
in-chief; Eloise Brady, associate editor;
Alethia Bracy, business manager; Miss
Florence Chubbuck, faculty advisor;
Carolyn Rogers, Annie Parks. Moore,
Meme Hampton and Agnes Efird, as-
sistant editors; Rutledge Dudley, ath-
letic editor; Margaret Bradford, news
cditor; Lorene Brown, around the cam-
pus; Nancy Monroe, music editor; Min-
nie B. Porter, alumnae editor; Jennie
Sue DeArmon, typist. Elsie Matthews,
jester; Virginia Hoover, blue triangle;
Emily Frazer, preparatory school editor;
Beulah Holmes and Alice Gibbon, adver-
tising managers; Cornelia Wearn and
Marie Bethune, circulation managers.

Queens College.—The student body of
Queens had the pleasure of hearing Mrs.
Blain, a returned missionary from China,
at vesper Sunday evening, Mrs. Blain
is a former graduate of this college and
for the past 25 years she has been a mis-
sionary to China.

Elon College, N. C., Apr. 12—Elon
opened a series of intercollegiate debate
contests last Friday evening by winning

two decisions over Guilford College
orators. The question discussefl was
resolved: That, the Treaty Making

Power of the United States should be
transferred to the Executive Department
of the Government (constitutionality
waived). On the home grounds Messrs.
R S. Helms and H. Lee Scott, supporting
the affirmative, won a unanimous de-
cision over Messrs. S. Gladstone Hodgin
and J. Spottiswood Taylor, Jr., of Guil-
ford. At Guilford, Messrs. Ralph Otis
Smith and Wm. Tate Scott, of Elon, sup-
porting the negative, won a two to one
decision over Messrs. L. Lyndon Wil-
liams and J. Curtis Newlin, of Guilford.
On April 12th, a dual contest will be
staged between Elon and Lenoir.

Elon College, N. C.,, Apr. 12—Hon. A.
Wayland Cooke, of Greensboro, N. Gs
gave a splendid address here last Sun-
day evening in the college auditorium ‘on
the “Usemul Christian.” Mr. Cooke came

j|under the auspices of the Religious
\ Activities Organization of Elon. As one

Cf>the most preminent lawyers and
Christian_citizens/in the State Mr. Cooke
received a hearty welcome to Elon. His
speech last evening proved to be force-
ful, pleasing and inspiring,

as Field Engineering, Military Law,
Machine Gun and Minor Tactics. Three
hours a week are given to actual drill-
ing and maneuvering in the Junior
course whereas the Seniors drill but
once a week giving the other two hours
to a more or less informal consideration
of the practical side of military policy
already spoken of and of sand table.and
terrain problems. :

In addition, however, to these con-
siderations of the practicability of the
courses given and in addition to the fact
that the entire course is exceedingly
light in comparison with any Junior or
Senior Lab course there is that $36.00
each quarter, two uniforms each year
and six weeks at one summer camp with
all expenses to, from and at camp paid
and $30.00 a month over and above to
have a good time on.

Perhaps few of us look much farther
ahead than our graduation day, but
there is an important consideration in
obtaining while in college that training
at the government’s expense which will
truly fit us to discharge the duties of
citizenship and leadership in a na-
tional emergency.

SECOND YEAR ADVANCED.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

In accordance with the age-old cus-
tom at A. & E,, all freshmen burned
their caps at.a huge bonfire on last Fri-
day night. The caps were thrown on
cne at a time, but the fresh were allow-
cd to keep the white “F.”

D.
We Don’t Know.

How much did Philadelphia, Pa.? j

How many eggs did New Orleans, La‘?

Whose grass did Hannibal, Mo.?

How much does Cleveland, O.?

How many classes did Jackson, Miss.?

What .made Chicago, IIl.?

Why did Poenix, Ariz.?

Who broke Athens, Ga.?

How often does Seattle, Wash.?

—Crimson & White.
D.
Vamps In Common.

“That's a vamp little chair you've got
there.”

“Whaddayamean?.”

“Why, it has bare legs, a low back,
and not much upholstery.”—Ex,

D

He (over the phone)—“Have you any-

thing on for tonight?” :

She—“Not a thing, come on over.’—
Wasp.

D.

The University of Alabama is holding
a beauty contest to decide who is the
prettiest co-ed and who is the ugliest
man. Miss Catherine Evans is leading
for the co-eds with 2,140 votes, and Ted
Snead for the handsome males, with 4,000
votes.

D.

Emory and Henry College, at Emory,
Va., have 16 dates for their Glee Club
during the remaining two months of the
spring term. Where are the Wildcat
songbirds ?

D

Earl Hayes, a student at William
Jewell College, was accidentally struck
on the temple and killed by a discus
thrown by one of his class.

D.

R. O. T. C. NOTES.

Probably few students realize that the
Davidson R. O. T. C. is merely a small
unit of the National R. O. T. C, organi-
zation embracing 227 colleges and 96,000
students throughout the land. These
figures include both Junior and Senior
units in a ratio of approximately one to
two.

Due to the fact that larger colleges
cften have several branches of the R. O.
T. C,, the total number of Senior units
is 234. In this group there are 100 units
of Infantry; 20 units each of Engineers,
Coast Artillery, Field Artillery, and
Medical Corps; 10 units each of Cavalry
and Signal Corps; and miscellaneous
other units.

An interesting fact is that 50 per cent
of the R. O. T. C. establishments are at
regular colleges and universities, where-
as there are fewer “military schools” in
the list than there are city high schools.

Students in India are joining with oth-
er national groups in passage of resolu-
tions condemning liquor shops and the
use of liquor. This is one phase of the
Gandhi movement, which maintains: that
beverage alcohol is sapping the vitality
of body, mind and soul of the Indian na-
tion. One unique fact is the system of
pickets under which volunteers stand
near liquor shops and in the name of
1eligion and country ask the ingoing
customer not to drink. If the customer
persits, the picket falls on his knees and
begs him not to drink. Some pickets
carry” bottles of milk and offer the
thirsty man free milk to drink. In some
places, the drinker is boycotted. The
movement is very successful in cutting
dewn drinking and in closing saloons.
Several of the independent states of
India have adopted prohibition in vary-
‘ing forms.

A young cadet was complaining of the
tight fit of his uniform.

“Why father,” he declared, “the col-
lar presses my Adam’s apple so hard I
can: taste cider.”
