2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
R. F. DAVIDSON.........0+ Editor-in-Chiei H, H. SMITH... 306.5.0+0868 Forum Editor
oy D. KINS. -First Managing Editor R. C, AIKEN.. ;..Campus Editor
» M. cond Managing Editor D. H. OGDEN. . C. A. Editor
R. R. . gnment Editor W. T. ELLIOT -Social Editor
iy H. +. Athletic itor H. M. MORRIS.. iterary Editor
oc Alumni Editor W. Z. BRADFORD.. Press Editor
MiBCOXKiasctesssesses Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres. ONES, J. R. MOFFETT, A, N.
SMITH, 'R. H., 'Vice-Pres. TONES, RR MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. <NOX, W. I. MOSS, H. M.
ALLISON, 0. LACY,' T. A, PRICE, H. B,
BITZER, R, McIL,WAINE, C. M LLER, C.D.
CALHOUN, M. P. cIVER, D. D. WALTHALL, D. B
BEER db.” MeCN
Dees WILLIAMS, J. M. ; :

Special Reporters for this Iseue Are:

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

W. ne COOPER.......ss50. Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE

CIRCULATION DEC ARTMEN?

Asst. Business Managers

WATT MCCAIN....... -Circulation Manager PAIN. cos ceceed \sst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants in Circulation Department :
R. B. LILES E. THROWER E. C. MOOMAW J. A THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for

they make the paper possible.

After beginning the year with ringing of our new bell by its donor,
himself, accompained by such an impressive ceremony, it does seem that a
most propitious start has been made, very fitting for the largest enrollment
that Davidson has ever had, and pointing to a banner year for 1922-23.

D.

1

The Wildcat team certainly looks good as the season is about to start.
The Elon game will give Coach Gray’s charges a chance to show what we
have in store for this year, and we all want to be on hand and help toward
a big victory.

D.

Hardly ever has as much been done for our team and for our athletics
as Coach Gray has been doing this summer, and the season can’t help reflecting
this work in renewed spirit and enthusiasm. Few of us realize how hard he
has worked for Davidson, but we all know what a successful season means
to every coach and every college. None can do less then, than get in behind
the team and support it with spirit through the whole year.

Last year the senior class was greatly in favor of being given an option
in church attendance, every man being on his honor to go to one of the
churches either in the morning or evening, ‘This fall for a. while we are
having a chance to try this plan out. Let’s see if we can’t make such a
success of it, seniors, that it will be adopted as a permanent thing.

i D.

VU

Already we have established one record this year, fellows.
have as many as 525 men registered at Davidson.
be a record in our studies.

Never before
The next thing ought to

D:
AN OCCASION HISTORIC.

INEYee within the memory of the present student body has the épening
of Davidson been anything like that witnessed here on the fourteenth
of September this year. We all realized that we were returning to a school
that was different, probably, in a number of ways from what it was formerly ;
yet, while we had heard of it indirectly, very few of us knew how well our
need for a new bell was to be met this fall. The generosity of Mr. McDowell
exceeded anything that we had even thought of here on the campus that we
were bemoaning last year the numerous substitutions that were tried to
replace the old bell‘of Chambers. We certainly now have one that will be
here until everyone of us have gone, and one that can and must be turned
over as a prided possession to those who later shall take our places.

In many ways, of course, Mr. McDowell has been thanked for his
gift. None of us could fail to be deeply interested in his talk to us and
touched by his lasting love for his Alma Mater which he has manifested
so plainly. But when his present was turned over by Dr. Martin to the
student body, through its president, we all ceased to be mere listeners and
became active participants in the ceremony. A privilege was given us, perhaps
a duty. But the way in which the student body regards this bell, and cares
for it, can we truly show how much we appreciate what we have been given.
Every time that its note sounds, we should be reminded of the great interest
that a friend to each one of us has taken-in—Davidson. It should cause us
tg try our best to make the. college one worthy of the interest of everyone
of its friends. aac

The promise of so much more in store for us which we heard on this
same occasion was a thing that could not help but be most pleasing. We
certainly want it known that the Davidson men who served their- country
and even died for her hold the very highest place in our regard and affection,
| and a memorial to. them is something everyone would like to have. The one
) that Dr. MacConnell plans will be thing outstanding and impressive. Let

us*hope that very soon this may become a reality, and the memorial tower
an be placed upon a New Chambers building in every way doing justice
2a clock upon it. a ea la i Bs

noewennno discounted “es -part of: the Glee €tub:-

Editor’s Note—This column is not nor is
it intended to be an editorial column. It is
meant for the students to use as a discussion
ground, where anyone in school may air his
views before the student body without giving
his name if he so desires. You men from
other schools and you freshmen tell us what
other schools have that you would like to
see here or tell how Davidson fails to come
up to your expectations. Bring your articles

‘|to the Forum editor.

The Old and the New

The opening of school this year marks a
new era in the history of Davidson College.
Never before has Davidson seen so many
new buildings, so many students and prob-
ably never before so many new faces among
the faculty in one year. Shall the spirit of
Davidson change? If so, how?

Why do so many boys want to come to
Davidson? Is it because Davidson is way
out in the country? Or because we have a
wonderful golf course and excellent tennis
courts? No it’s the reputation that David-
son has for instilling the right principles
and conceptions of life in its sons. It’s the
practical Christianity that manifests itself
in all of Davidson’s activities, her athletics,
her literary work and her wonderful fellow-
ship between her students. :

The old Davidson has a remarkable rep-
utation, but what about the new? Let's
catch the torch thrown by the men of old
Davidson and hold it high. Let’s promote a
strong spirit of fellowship on the campus.
Speak to every man you mect on the campus.
Know as many of the boys as possible.
Keep up our record of clean athletics. Be
honest.in your class work. If these things
are done then Davidson will rise to a larger
and greater service and men will become
more and more eager to enter its walls.

D

Student :

“Why do you stutter?”

“That's my p-p-p-eculiarity. [Everyone has
a p-p-peculiarity.”

“T have none.”

“1D-d-don't you s-tir your coffee with your
right hand?”

“Yes,”

“Well, that’s your p-p-peculiarity. M-most
folks use a s-spoon.”—The Rotunda.

He Won It

A schoolmaster once said to his pupils, to
the boy who would make the best piece of
composition in five minutes on “How’ to
Overcome Habit” he would give a prize.
When the five minutes had expired a lad of
nine years’ stood up and said:\ “Well, sir,
habit is hard to overcome. If youstake off
the first letter it does not change ‘abit.’
If you take off another letter, you still have
a ‘bit’ left. If you take off still another,
the whole of ‘it’ remains. If you take off
another it is ‘not totally used up, all of
which goes to show that if you want to get
rid of habit you must throw it off alto-
gether.” Result—He won it.

D.

R. O. T. C. BAND IS TO
BE REORGANIZED

With the starting of the year the R. O.
T. C. Band once more becomes a prom-
inent feature of college life. Since the
organization of this band in 1919 it has been
steadily growing so that-it has now grown
to be one of the outstanding features of the
R. O. T. C. unit.

Each year several trips are made by this
band, in adition to its attendance at a large
number of athletic contests,

Some fine material has already been found
in the freshman class and all indications
point to the best band in the history of the
R. O. T. C. unit.

Stewart Buchanan has been designated as
leader.

D.

GLEE CLUB TO START
NEW YEAR ACTIVITY

At an early date next week a call will be
made for all men, among both old and new
students to come to some designated place
and display their talent for singing, so that
Davidson can have a record breaking Glee
Club. Many old men who were members’ of

will form, the nucleus for the Club this year.
The.old men are looking forward to getting
to work on’ the new music and especially to
the pleasures the Club ‘affords. Men with
any: talent instrumental lines are ex-
pected to turn out for the orchestra,—as_it

the Club last year_have returned and_ they |

EXCHANGES

Habit at first is but a silken thread,

Fine as the light-winged gossamers that
sway

In the warm sunbeams of a summer’s day;

A shallow streamlet, rippling o'er its bed;

A tiny sapling, ere its roots are spread;

A yet unhardened thorn upon the spray;

A lion’s whelp that hath not scented prey;

A little smiling child obedient led.

Beware! That thread may bind thee as a
chain;

That streamlet gather to a fatal sea;

That sapling spread into a gnarled tree;

That thorn, grown hard, may wound and
give thee pain;

That playful whelp his murderous fangs
- reveal ;

That child, a giant, crush thee ‘neath his
heel.

—Selected.

A Difference In Falls

At home he was a hero,
He sure did knock ’em dead,
And when he came to college
He'd do the same, he said.

But when he came to college
His heart was filled with fear, ,
Instead of falling at his fect,
They fell upon his rear.
—Ex.

“Tt must be out of order,” said the absent
minded girl, as she attempted to fill her
eversharp pencil in the library ink well—
Sun Dial.

A real modest girl is one that will not
look at a battleship when it is stripped for
action.

Those who court in haste often hasten to
court.

A pretty girl jumps to the conclusion that
every man she meets wants to kiss her.
And the wonder of it is that she is right—
Va. Tech.

Like the alarm clock that goeth off at
seven.a, m., so is she who saith. “I told
you so!”

Old Shoes ~

How much a man is like old shoes!
For instance, both a soul may lose;
Both have been tanned; both are made tight!
By cobblers; both go left and right.
Both need a mate to be complete,
And both are made to go on feet.
They both need heeling, oft are sold,
And both in time are turned to mould.
With shoes, the last is first; with men
The first shall be last; and when
The shoes wear out, they’re mended new;
When men wear out. they’re mendead, too.
They both are trod upon, and both
Will tread on others, nothing’ loath.
Both have their ties, and both incline,
When polished, in the world to shine;
And both peg out—and would you chose
To be a man or be his shoes? _

—Bliss.

D.

_ Queer Things

The man who talks of supporting a wife
when she is working fourteen hours a day,
including Sunday.

The man who thinks his wife exists for
the comfort and convenience of his mother
and sisters.

The man who provides himself with a
family and trusts providence to provide the
family with a home and ‘something to cat.

The man who thinks that women are
angels.

' The man who can’t remember his wife’s
birthday.

The man who thinks a woman is “fixed
for the season” if she has a new gown.

The man who thinks a woman ought to
give up a $1,000 salary and work in his
kitchen for her board and a few clothes,
and be glad of the chance.

The man who labors under the delusion
that his wife’s money belongs to him.

The man who always leaves his wife at
home when he takes his summer vacation.

The man who thinks a sick wife would
feel better if.she would “just get up and
stir_aorund,”

D-—

Movable schools for the children of
migratory labors in the San Joaquin Valley
of California are conducted by the State
Board of Education. The schools move from
place to-.place—with the laborers as these

[keep up with the harvest.

BLACK AND RED WARRIORS
(Continued from Page 1)

team, one Georgia team, three from the
Palmetto State and five Tar Heel teams will
be the Wildcats’ opponents in 1922, :

Davidson opens at home Saturday against
Elon. Last season the score was 47-0 in the
Wildscats’ favor. Elon should be easy for
the Red and Black squad this year.

Next week the Wildcats invade South
Carolina to play P. C. Of the three games
between’ the institutions each has won by
a 7-0 score and the third resulted in a score-
less tie. The Wildcats hope to repeat their
victory of last year.

On October the 7th the Wildcats will be
the guests of the Golden Tornado in Atlanta.

Returning from Atlarita the Red and Black
worriors grapple with the Wake Forest
Baptists in Charlotte. The Baptists won last
year for the first time in the history of the
institutions by a 10-7 count. Although the
Presbyterians will again be outweighed they
are out for revenge and the followers of the
Old Gold and Black will have the battle of
the century on their hands.

On the 21st the Wildcats returns to his
lair to meet the boys from V. P. I. The
Tech men have last year’s team intact except
for “Hoss” Hess and Sprunt Field will
see a realscrap, as the Virginia lads are
out to capture South Atlantic honors.

On the 28th Trinity is the oponent but
the place is as yet undecided. The Meth-
odists have an experienced team and also a

}large number of high and prep school stars

who should deliver the goods, This is the
first game ever staged With the -followers
of Wesley and it should be one of the hard-
est games of the year.

‘The first game in November will be played
in Raleigh against State College. The Wild-
cats were held to a heart-breaking tie last
year when a field goal blocked in the last
minute of play and left the score knotted at
three all. Coach Hartsell has only five letter
men back but has a wealth of ‘material from
last year’s scrub and freshmen. ‘The Engi-
neers will be given a hard tussle.

On Armistice Day the Wofford Terriers
will be the attraction in Charlotte. Last year
the ‘Terriers were snowed under 87-0 but
Rip Major has taken charge and the score
will probobly be a little closer this fall.

A week later Coach Grey’s and Fetzer’s
proteges will be in' the limelight when they
meet on Wearn Field. Last year a scoreless
tie was the result with Johnny Johnson and
Spratt Moore playing the leading roles. It
was Gig Shepherd’s touchdown that won
the year before for the Red and Black. Gig
is in the game this year and going strong.

On Turkey Day the Wildcat Special goes
to Greenville to see the Purple Hurricane
perform. Save your shekels and see the
Wildcats in action against the once dreaded

Furman team. It'll be worth seeing.
D.

METROPHILIANS HAVE
FIRST BUSINESS SESSION

The opening meeting of the Metrophilian
Literary Society was held in the Phi Hall
at 8:30 p. m.

After the mecting had been called to order,
by President L,. P. Burney, devotional exer-
cises were conducted by J. D. Bernhardt.
The president then read the names of the
members of the Vigilance, Judicial, and
Absence Committees. Consideration of
methods for securing new members occupied
most of the remainder of the time. Whether
to co-operate with the Philanthropic Society
in this matter was the point at issue. Finally
it was decided the president should appoint
two captains who would choose teams work-
ing in competition to solicit new members.
The wining team will be treated to a feed
by the losers. The contest began Saturday
and continued four days. The president
announced his, selection of Bernharglt and,
Adams as captains.

After a short discussion about changing

the time of meeting, the society adjourned.
D—

COMMITTEES NAMED IN
THE EUMENEAN SOCIETY

A short but important meeting of the
Eumenean Literary Society was held last
Friday night in the Eu Hall, at which time
matters of business were discharged. The
president appointed the committees which
are to serve during the year. As to the
reception of. new men, the house voted to
receive as many new men as desired to be-
come members of the society and the next
regular meeting was set for their reception
and initiation.

This was the first meeting of the society
this year and the indications are in favor of
a very successful year for the Eumeneans.

Sag y Leon

The single man out of a job is to be pitied,

as he kas no wife to” suport him.
