THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

DAVIDSON STATIS CAROLINA STATISTICS
' First String Players First String Players
BASKETBALL No. Name Position Weight} No. Name Position Weight
Dearesie sre scare C. Davis ictt end ........ WOO Omsaivaians R. Morris left end ........ 173
12 ........MeMasters left tackle ...... 186} 11 .........Matthews left tackle ...... 169
I oeire wioun S .Davis left guard ...... NOS el 7s snes tse Pritchard left guard ...... 185
BU iui saasecirn BPiCS CONE 4 4 s6 6s 94d NOFA 4 sos ote vores Blount center .......... 162
WGSirrcpur etc Sorrells right guard ..... YA) be beavers rare Poindexter right guard ..... 183
MO ett sacisennien Clark right tackle ..... yt) CY Tea Fever errr 5 Melver right tackle ..... 181
tare ire ag IG Faison right end .......155}10 .......... Cochran right end . ..177
ber ee it nail Hendrix quarterback ..... LOB yeh etae MeDonald quarterback ....151
t Paine ce: Shepherd left half ........ 105; 9 ......05. I, Morris left half ........ 162
ePIC KER REO Hunt right half ....... OOH 2 as haaan Johnson right half ...... 161
Loe errerer han Moore fullback ........ 130! Seiaineten McGee fullback ........ 147
e Principal Substitutes Principal Substitutes
&, No, Name Position Weight | No Name Position Weight
ritebard— \ ects rs ease MATUD WOK. ces sya et ADU lcsoe ecient Randolph back .....:..... 172
The Mooresville girls have started a plan] presenting a solid front-—(row). No not oe RING eel Backs ets cee a EE aaa Gn hells Hees eet h eC 1
: ie : 1 Kees Sirens Pc Crawford back CQUHEID cos carve DATE Ws ACK crit vile et as 144
whereby they have agreed that the days on}in the Armistice celebration but at_ the 0 Dick quarterback .... 124] 2 4 Nareitc Wack: < cia euees 173
which they have a date they eat scarcely a] Greenwich Village Follies. Res eo aac Sent " i : eve Tene Wt Siheee lathe 134
thing. The next time you visit this met- — a ae eae Urs Me cede 102! = a Siete Saab eee ee peo tned ne seco 141
cua uy ey AACS IEC AB: TUN hee VIE GoeL cures Iversen Regen tack amd end. AS88)14 eee s eee Bell back sees sees hy
TIME vaere to explain how its all done by a gentle owist |p 1077777" Meine Gels eaweeieyteln eee
The Davidson College water supply offers] of i wrist. We deserve our share of praise 4 Abas aise: rabeinerery ‘Hite So ae 193 1x cae Shepard end a 130
‘ reat entertainment to anybody with suicidal | in the hone dry law. Pees a ann aaenY ; dicen a Ritatay ial | te sees ence hartt a happiest ena Cena Sp
gq Basket-ball Trunks ’ Wohin ate Bing a a aa a : pester (areata aia I Ong line TL RIOTIOD a oy cekerredy ene ie vevtsoueeaes ie
Shoes and Stockings. cent of our infirmary cases are due to the} While we are handing out the “fur line i eae enc \ ree ie fies eer eer aes aah is : ees NY ne Heh
inability of being able to use the soap in the} tea cup” to the water situation we may also secre i eat Ms dieik 173.405 N eer aient " i ae ne m ar cone 176
@ Sweat Shirts. manner prescribed by the National Laws of add, why is it that the laundry always takes \vera LABS weight die 168 es er mee Yi a : ee 3 Me Be Saeaes “5
NS A the Keep Clean Society. Ae in war so in the} the buttons off in the funniest places? They |), ABS AEA, tit BY SNCS ees rey Nee . eat sec Cee 188 14
@ Prices Right, Quality the Water situation, with a cessation of this val-[iust work down there with the Bir in, ne bee aie Hee SEL eee were eat peste el : ae SER eal i
Best. uable fluid we find startling changes in tne] “We've got to do it or bust!" AVEC AVGIELLE Meau rime ect a - Jere SEARS WOR sila igen ours
maps of the students. Caesar had his Brutus, —- - Davidsen Record : Carolina Record
Napoleon his Waterloo, but if we don’t soon} ‘The present quota of bald domes on the Pann Wp E Ha) 24 ae ie Senate) ay Pee crisis ir : bg Forest mer
e get water the old yroverb, “While there’s life campus shows us clearly why Webster put WUNTSOM cee ee eee é . a aro uit rc Re seer eee rene b
The Commissary there's soap,” wil border close to the nix’ the word “ege shape” in his dictionary. Davidson sees eees 0 Ga. Tech see eeeee 19 Citrine seteseees 20 Trinity sO CIOS 0
“Service for Our Mutual column, Let all the students rise and render -—- Be an sG0G0000% ; ¥ a eee Site 7 oe Siuletaatatian i S ie bGUau G %
Benefit.” the old ballad, led by Okey Allison, “Colum- AM Freshmen will be glad to dearn that an HW fe GUO DG0U ete 2 AU eee ny a sf sta ‘ Bere at §
enent, hus discovered America, George Washington} Doctor MeConnel is contemplating — the Davidson ..... ats 0 ' rinity” AE EGER 12] ¢ arolina Shona C4 M adn G GoGoouu :
washed it, and Davidson College is trying to} yearly initiation of the Hebrew Club in a Davidson RETR 0 N. C. StAtOISs 4 448s 15 Carolina PATE 19 Mulane Arad a 12
> \dry it’ —SELAT. few weeks. Any further knowledge will be DAVISON: 604556655 $4 Wofford ......... 0! Carolina DaVinci cil kad
| Os es Sd i, a huoneuemeee: _—— viven on the subject by capplying to “Gig” Davidson 78 Opponents iN 67l|Garolina 161 Mobos
tae de bas och Za rs nb [sy if pee

Stop in and.See
Us Saturday

MELLON’S

Pt lee Ll Ll

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
_ CHARLOTTE, N. C.-

it is rumored in
pateh” from Turkey
tion in the RL OL T.C.
Turkish army to cease

an “assinated press dis-
that the recent’ reduc-
corps at Davidson has

caused the all hostili-

Shepherd at DB. East: Dormitory.

FRESHMAN TEAM TIES

EGG. AND A WAITRESS
FALL FOR FAIR WALLACE

\nd there was in that country a band of

Channing Brown,’

MARRIAGES,

18, was recently matried
Miss Katherine Poe, of Rock Hill, S.C

18 4M teste iinee UATE ’ ; : fan
heey on the Bosporous, - Better wateh out WILMINGTON S PRIDE men and women making merry at the Sand Married
Major Cooper and Captsin Gamble. Even the The Davidson Wildkittens gave the deni-| till festival. Yea, they owere riotous in : oy ae Ree
slightest whisper of your reduction will cause | joys of the mud swamps dround Wilmington | their merriment, And, to, there was come Mr. Scum ee od Ceti) aohnston
the werld to engage in mortal combat that). trae representation of what is meant by }te Pinehurst that day the cubs from the far an :
4 alee + Ie fur 2 ven 9° eile ¢ . i ; x é PATS
will make the last | HELA] eta GL look Tike Al that famous Wildcat fight Saturday when | famed Wolfpack to do battle with the young Wise THT RIRMRHE Gemntall
. , 7 et °c av ¢ ; ; : ss “Uh ve he rf i
county fair fireworks display, they held their heavier and more experienced | Wildeats, Ni ; ; 3. 1922

-D y ner ; ara A ‘ ; Vild Friday evening, November 3, 1922

opponents, the Wilmington Light Infantry, to Now, verily did the Cubs and the Wile Greenville, N. C.
AY gy ; . > ee ct
Ora Dog License a scoreless tie in a game which came as’ the {eats yearn to strengthen their claws. Yea, ; :
Residence, W ashington, Nie;

Will some one kindly lend me the sum of
two bits in order that IT may shed my curly
black locks with Norton, the barber. My
locks are indeed a source of praise from the
girls and I really hate to part with them, Still
to retain my preesnt standing as ace high
with the fairer sex they must come off.
(Signed) BEN TEAM.

“Ikey” Morris’s theme in English 5 on
“The Jew” was the first of a series to be
given on “Get rich quick commissary.”

Davidson lives up to its past reputation by

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many: Acts and Numberless

Scenes
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters: “Mack” Lennox, a rather
prominent senior; he prides himself on the
nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private
opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.

“Bill” Carroll, his room-mate and no less
prominent junior; in matter of -dress, his
taste is more conservative and substantial ;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage,
“Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Ninth, :

Mack—How'’s this for a snappy poem?

Bill—Can the racket, I’ve listened to your
poems for the last month without protest,
BUT from now on, can ’em.

Mack—Yea, and why so?

Bill—Shut up.

Mack—Practice what you preach.

(A few minutes later).

Mack—Going to Charlotte
you?

Bill—Don’t ask foolish questions. Boy, I
wouldn’t miss that game, no sir, not me. Per-
sonally I crave to see the Wildcats claw ’em
up with my own eyes.

Mack—Ditto.

Bill—Ought to be good snappy weather
about then.

Mack—Even so and the thought comes to
me that means that I’ll have to buy mine-self
an overcoat or take the consequences.

Bill—Well, cast your eyes to the left and
you will see one of the snappy models that
Ed Mellon’s showing now. Peach, isn’t it?

Mack—Looks good, how about the make?

Bill—Couldn’t be better: Hart, Schaffner
and Marx and Hickey-Freeman.

Mack—It’s a go then, we'll drop in there
before the game.

Bill—Even so ’twill be.—(adv.)

(To be; continued next week)

Saturday aren't

climax to an Armistice Day celebration
which attracted thousands of people from all
pertions of Eastern North Carolina,

Doped to lose by three touchdowns, Coach
George's proteges showed the inhabitants of
Wilmington how the  serapping Wildcat
breed never takes anything for granted, but
instead sailed into the infantry crew during
the last half and upset the old dope pot in a
most convincing manner.

Twice theoFreshmen got the ball within
\W. L. V's five-yard line, but bad breaks and
lack of punch kept them from the much
coveted touchdown. Again, three drop kicks,
one by Laird and two by Johnson, missed
hy dnches,

During the first quarter the ball swayed
hack and forth in mid-field with neither side
having an advantage, but during the second
quarter W. L. I. opened up a series of for-
ward passes which swept the Kittens off their
feet. Approximately. 10 out of 13 passes
were successful in this quarter.

But the next half the Freshmen backfield
came back with a drive and determination
that swept the infantrymen off their feet and
before they knew what it was all about it
was Davidson's ball on their three-yard line.
Here the referce cost the Wildcats the game.
W. L. I. was penalized half the distance to
the goal for offsides hut instead of being Da-
vidson’s ball, first down, on the one-yard
line, as the rule hook plainly specifies, the
ball was given to W. L. I. who punted out of
danger. A drop kick by Laird missed by a
hair’s breadth.

Again the Wildcats, aided by brilliant end
runs Sappenfield and consistent line
plunging by MacMillan, Laird and Black,
carried the ball within striking distance of
their opponent's goal only to have a drop
kick blocked and scooped up by a W. L. I.
man who came pretty near getting loose for
a touchdown.

Another march down the field started and
the Freshmen had carried the ball from their
own 25-yard line to W. L. I’s 20-yard line
when the whistle called time.

In all it was the prettiest game the Fresh-
men have played this year and they displayed
to a marked degree that fight and drive
which was lacking earlier in the season. AlI-
though outweighed 10 pounds to the man,
they exhibited a spirit which had local en-
thusiasts yelling for them during the final
periods.

by

D.

Reverend Pharr is now pastor of the
Renick Presbyterian Church which is 144
years old, being the second oldest Presby-

terian Church in West Virginia.

they did fill the air with their shrieks.

And, in this band of mighty warriors,
whom men were wont to call Wildeats,
a man, strong and mighty. A comely youth,
yea, very good to look upon, Moore by name,
sometimes called Wallace.

Now, when the battle had ended and each
warrior did take his place in. the dining
room of the Carolina hotel, lo there appeared
a fair damsel—a waitress by occupation, And
great was her confusion when she gazed upon
the fair youth named Wallace. Yea,, even
in her embarrassment she did spill a plate of
eggs and bacon upon the coat of Wallace,
of the tribe of Moore, And great was the
shouts of laughter from the company of
diners,

3ut the fair Wallace did laugh too. Verily
did he pull off his coat, and lo he did have on
a silk shirt of gorgeous hue. Then did his
adversaries and members of his company
sce why he did laugh so heartily. Great was
his glory in the showing of his silk shirt.
Nevertheless he was greatly humbled when
the management did present him with a bill
for $2 for valet service and pressing said
suit upon which the fair damsel did spill
the egsg and bacon.

Waly

Compliments of

M. C. BRADLEY
BARBER SHOP
6 East Trade Street

J. IN PRESSLEY
: For Good Service

BARBER SHOP
{2 East Trade Street

CHARLOTTE
TRANSFER
COMPANY

PHONE 298

JAKE MARTIN,

Manager

NEXT DOOR TO WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

as

We carry:a big line of =~
PIPES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES and SODAS
Anything in the Smoking Line

H. & H. CIGAR CO.

32 South Tryon St.

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles

WHITE -DRUG COMPANY

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

