>

b.

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

f North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
ME aciee of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p:m; Monday; Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. M. .--Editor-in-Chief
\. A, ay -Managing Editor
H. H. DSO NT) DEE TN Buiter ae
r ecenenane. nmen - - edi
K€ ORMOND. Athletic Editor BH. OGDEN, Jit" Literary Editor
Oe] HER ATTEN rosatacs ‘Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Pres. FEWELL, ED. AUZE, G, W., V.-Pres.
BRADEORD, ae 2. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H
BROWN, C.'V. HESTON, W. M MORRIS, H, M. Sec.-Treas,
} ONES, J. R. S] RH.
CALHOUN, MP, JONES: i i TULLER, C.D.
COX, W. M. <NOX, W. L WALTHALL, D,_B.
ELKINS, L. D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W.: T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A isseertceccureccs Business Manager

. C. WO :
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLFoLy and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. DOUBLES..-.---- Circulation Manager A: is in Circulati Depar' ent:
e . D, TULLER S. C, FAIN P. C, HENDERSON
ie Ae Bee oe Plaration Managers WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Ten games won out of thirteen played is a record of which any
team may be proud. Hats off to the Wildcat five!
})——
The microbe of Love made its first stage appearance at Davidson
last Friday, This is not the first time that it has been in evidence on
the campus, however.

D

Members of the Davidson faculty and Y. M. C. A. spoke at seven
points around Davidson last Sunday, Salisbury, Concord, Charlotte,
Gastonia, Lincolnton, Sharon, and Caldwell being in the number. So far
as we can learn this is a new high water mark in the outside extension
of the Y. M. C. A, here.

: Db

The Davenport Weekly Record is the latest addition to the ranks

of college newspapers in North Carolina. We congratulate the students

of Davenport upon the initial appearance of their paper, and wish them

much success in continuing their publication.
D

yo ; Gell ‘
Now that spring has arrived, it is about time for some one to start
counting up the number of days till commencement, we suppose.
D

Have you noticed that worried look which so many of the Juniors

are wearing these days? “There’s a reason.”
. D
COLLEGE EDUCATION?

A to a recent discussion between the cashier of a bank aud a min-

ister of a small South Carolina town as to their respective ideals
for sons now in college. The minister’s wish was to have his boy stand
at the head of his class. The banker declared that he much preferred
hearing that his son had knocked ahome run with the bases full. This
difference of opinion’ led to’a somewhat heated argument as to the
place of athletics in the life of the modern educational institution, the
end coming with neither party convinced.

Mr. Julian Miller, of the Charlotte News, in one of his excellent edi-
torials has commented on the question in a very forceful and striking
manner, He takes the position that play holds an important place in
college life since it helps the institutions to accomplish the purpose for
which they were founded, the development of symmetrical manhood.
The college was not intended to train the intellects of men at the ex-
pense of their bodies and their social instincts, but to bring the three
into the close coordination which marks the perfect man. Mr. Miller
points out the fact that many men who have stood at the head of
their classes have entered the world without the social and physical
qualifications so necessary for success, while others who went into all
phases of college life and came out practical, well: rounded men aré now
standing at the very head of their professions. He closes with the
statement that “A college experience is the destiny-forming experience
of any boy, and the fellow who does not come away from classic halls
with more than a mere knowledge of the languages and a mastery of the
sciences has missed some of the larger and more essential things which
lay within his reach.”

In this statement Mr. Miller has unquestionably set forth a great
truth, for a mind developed out of all proportion to the other faculties
is a doubtful asset to any man. There are lessons to be learned on the
athletic field and in the various student activiti@s as well as in the class
room, and the wisdom to be acquired at college is by no means limited
to the number of studies listed in the curriculum of the institution. On
the other hand, there seems to be atendency in the modern college to
allow the student’s outside activities to take precedence over his liter-
ary work. Needless to say, this mistake is equally as great as the for-

WHAT CONSTITUTES A

CONSIDERABLE amount of newspaper publicity has been given

"mer, and probably much more common. With danger on either hand,

real safety seems to lie only in the middle ground of moderation, Even a
good thing when taken to excess may prove harmful. The’ truly well
rounded man is the one who does not let the body interfere with culti-
vation of the mind, or social instincts with either, but who by the health-
ful exercise of each develops all into one harmonious whole. The de-
velopment of such men should be the highest,aim of .every college.

= “s ‘

BY

| this week,

With Other Colleges |

FIRST YANKEE CLUB ADDED
TO CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS

Chapel Hill, Feb, 18—The first North-, gram noteworthy for the unusually good |
ern Club in the history of the University | preparation made by the debaters and/| Read the

was organized Thursday night, when 15!
boys from above the Mason-Dixon line,
banded themselves together at an in-
teresting meeting C. B. Colton, of Bos- |
ton, Mass., was elected president; O. W.
Freeman, West Orange, N. J., vice-pres-
ident; G. H. Jarvis, Boston, Mass., sec-
retary, and L. J. Brody, New Haven,
Conn,,.treasurer, Garland. Porter,-presi-
dent of the student body, was elected an
honorary member, and the meeting ad-
journed by singing Dixie to the tune of
Yankee Doodle.

State College, Feb. 21—The prospects
for the 1922 track team are very encour-
aging in view of the fact that over 80
men reported for practice on the track
There has been considerable |

| interest manifested already and Coaches,
| Taylor, Crowder and Dana are working

hard to make this year stand out in
track at N. C. State. The team is man-|
aged by H. J. Kinard and captained by
W. W. Blakeney. Many old men are on)
the track, including Homewood, Roberts, |
Poole, Close, Park, Groome, Corkill,|
Brackett and Randolph from Randolph- |
Macon Coll@ge. A new track one-fifth |
mile long has been constructed around |
Riddick field, which makes the practice
much better.

State College, Feb. 21.—Baseball prac-
tice has begun in earnest with about 50
candidates on the diamond, The pitch-
ing staff already reporting are: Curtis,
Allen, Floyd, Cline, Lassiter and Hill.
The receiving end is well represented in
Parsons, Johnson, and Faulkner.
old men are back this year and the out- |
look is very promising for a successful |
season for State. Manager R. L. Mills, |
Captain H. E, Norwood, and Coach Har-
ry Hartsell are very optimistic.

Queens College, Feb. 24.—Since Easter
comes at such a late date this year,
Queens is to have spring holidays. They
begin Thursday, March 16th, at 12
o'clock, and extend until Monday even-
ing, March 2oth. Everybody is planning
great things during this much appreciat-
ed vacation,

Elon College, N. C., Feb, 20.—Exten-
sive preparations are being made here
for a celebration on George eWashing-
ton’s birthday. All of the college dining
halls will be decorated for the occasion
and at 5 o'clock the Clio annual dinner
will be served by the Clio Literary So-
ciety At 8 p.m. the society will give its
annual entertainment in the college au-
ditorium, The entertainment this year
will be one of Harry Hamilton's plays,
entitled “For the Love of Johnny,” ;

D

JUNIORS IN R. O. T. C. HAVE
MOOT COURT FOR PRACTICE

The R. O. T. C. was’ startled into
activity last week by the filing of two
scrious charges against ‘one of the
Juniors, whose character would never
lead anyone to believe him capable of
such offenses. Although it was not a
pleasant task, the military authorities
were forced to organize a coyrt-martial
and started proceedings to judge wheth-
er Sergeant J. M. Bostick, alias John)
Walker, is guilty of having deserted |
and of having stolen a pistol. The court |
is composed entirely of Juniors, members |
ot Sergeanf Bostick’s own class, through |
which fact a fair and unprejudiced trial |
is assured. W. J. Cooper is president of |
the court. J. D. Bernhardt is acting as
Judge Advocate,-and A. V. Gibson as!
Assistant Judge Advocate. The defense
is represented by W. H. Moore as chief
council and D. W. Bethea as assistant
counsel.

C. A. Young, the law member, is fre-
quently called upon for explanations of
some of the objections raised by both
counsels, and, although his ability is
recognized, he seems stunned by the
responsibilities he has assumed, and once
or twice, when gently urged to hasten
his decision, has seemed to “forget his
dignity,” and has given such replies as—
“Aw, hold your ’taters.” Of course ev-
eryone sympathizes with him in his
hardships.

Many}.

PHILANTHROPICS HEAR OF
EXCELLENCIES OF BICKETT

The gavel of the Phi passed from

| Harold McKeithen into the hands of!
Joseph F, Clark last Thursday night. |

The inaugural ceremony followed a pro-

ior two instructive and inspiring ora-|

tions.

|
|
|

|

| Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

SMILE.

In the debate J. R. Jones and R. J.!

Smith for the affirmative won
cision over R. H, Fleming and B. G.
3rown, The query, “Resolved, That the
United States should prohibit immigra-

tion for two years,” is an old subject, yet!
it-is-a-subject that concerns all and will?

remain so for a long time to come. These
men showed that they had made care-
ful preparation on this subject but they
were somewhat lacking in pep.

An oration by C. W. Robinson follow-
ed the debate. His subject was, “The

Solar System,” and he gave an interest-|

ing account of one of thé theories of its
formation, '

“Which shall it be?—A NORTH CAR-
OLINIAN,” was Harold McKeithen’s
subject. He held the absolute attention
of his audience while he spoke of his
many attempts at a person for the sub-
jects of an oration on character. His
final choice was Thomas W. Bickett, of
North Carolina.

In the reports of the various offices
for the past term there was a universal
note of rejoicing in the way the Phi has
pulled through the difficulties and’ dis-
orders of the past term, which nec-
essarily came after the division of the
society. They all prophesied great things
in the future for the old Phi.

D

RAPID-FIRING EXHIBITS.

A challenge was received by the Pan-
deinics at their meeting of the 23d. This
challenge was issued by the Eu’s and
It
was, of course, promptly accepted and
one man ‘was chosen from each of the
upper classes to represent the society in
debate, they being J C. Bailey, Sorrells
and Walthall of the Sophomore class.
There is at every mecting some un-
expected event qn the program. At this
meeting, it was the rendeging of three
impromptu  fotty-five-second orations.
Wallace Moore spoke first and related
the alarming incident of the robin, the
mocking-bird and the hawk. Guy Weeks
then gave a brief resume of psychology
and philosophy. Rooster McFadden then
spoke on some means of ‘acquiring bet-
ter speaking ability while-in the society.
This oration evoked
during the meeting.
In the regular debate, Brown, McCal-
lum and W, T. Baker succeeded in proy-
ing over their opponents, D. W. Bethea
and Ray Carr, that the United States

was for an inter-society program.

some discussion

should suspend all immigration for a
period of two years. Each of the de-
baters brought out séveral forceful

arguments in a characteristic manner.

An oration was given by D R. LaFar,
in which he showed clearly the condi-
tion of industries, especially that of cot-
ton, in the South. S. F. Bryant gave a
patriotic declamation in an interesting
way. J. H. Grey then rendered-a-com-
plete summary of the high points in
current events.

D.

the students who went to
Charlotte Saturday to hear Sousa’s band

Among

Story, R. L. McLeod, R. U. Woods, REACH
Bailey, J. C. B. McLaughlin and M. W.
Doggett.
D. ee

W. J. Martin, Jr., is spending a-short
time with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. Mf.
Martin. Bill recuperating from a
siege of pneumonia contracted at N. C.

State College where he is a student.

is

LITERARY NEWS.

Debate Queries.

March 2d: “Resolved, That the
United States should maintain a

navy equal to the largest in the
world.”

March oth: “Resolved, That for
the economic welfare of the world
the reparation demands on Ger-
many should be adjusted by reduc-
tions or postponement or both.”

the de-!

It is said that it takes sixty-five
muscles of your face to make a frown,
and only thirteen muscles of the same
|face to smile. The way that some of us
walk about the campus, sit in class
rooms, and do our lessons is exactly con-
tiary to the way in which we wish things
to be. We are continually frowning be-
{cause we think that the teachers are
| making us “work overtime;” and while
we continue in this train of thought we
|are working overtime in the very think-
ing, because as we know by frowning
we work just five times harder than if
smile, Let’s smile more, fellows,
| “why work overtime?”—Technique.
| D

He sits apart;

| The dance goes on,

| we

He looks with saddened gaze

| Upon the merry throng.

| And why?

| Because he's

| Been betrayed

By the one he trusted—

His suspender

Button’s busted!

—Rensselear Polytechnic.

D

There is a plan on foot at the Univer-
sity of Virginia for the erection of a

‘|bronze tablet or other suitable memorial ,

PANDEINICS HAVE SPLENDID

at the room which was occupied by
Woodrow Wilson when he was a stu-
dent at the University—The Maine
Campus.

D.

THE APPLE OF HIS EYE.

| y
| A peach came walking down the street;

She was more than passing fair;
A smile, a nod, a half-closed eye,
And the peach became a pair.
—Mugwump.

D
TAR BABY ON SALE WITH
SOME MORE PLAGAIRISM
The “Tar Baby” made a belated ap-
pearance at Foister’s on Monday. The
issue shows little improvement and the
evidence of plagairism is clearly pres-
ent. One very happy feature is the de-
crease in the amount of advertising car-
ried,
D .
DROP THE HONOR SYSTEM.

Philadelphia, Feb. 13—The honor sys-
tem under which students of the Whar-
ton School of Finance at the University
of Pennsylvania have been accustomed
to taking all examinations, was suspend-
ed today by special faculty action.

Reports of repeated violations, com-
bined with the reticence of the Wharton
men to report violators to the Honor
Committee, was assigned as the reason
for the suspension of the traditional
| code, ~~
|Although abolition of the system has
| been threatened for the last two years,
|the announcement of the faculty action
by Dean. Emory R. Johnson, came_as a
surprise to the vast majority of under-
|graduates. The system is almost as old
jas the school, and although ,the subject

iwere: E. T. Gentry, M. W. McGill. § p:| of frequent modification and revisions,

|it has always been very popular among
the undergraduates.

The School of Finance was the only
department of the University of Penn-
sylvania wheré the honor system was
used.—N, Y. irinies:

- D.

At a meeting of the Alumnae Associa-
|tion of the North Carolina College for
Women on Founder’s Day, plans were
approved for the construction of an
alumnae building which will be a modern
structure of three stories, with adequate
facilities for lodging, club meetings,
meals, etc. Construction of the cafe-
teria will begin at once and the entire
Structure, estimated at a cost of $100,000,
is expected to be completed by com-
mencement.

D.
Me, TOO.

“Aw, git away, I’m saving my kisses.”
“If. that’s the case, I’d like to con-
tribute to your collection.”

