THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

CAMPUSISMS

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by _the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of I Davidson a as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per es) oe 50 the Cottegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in “the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
R. F. DAVIDSON seeeees Editor-in- Chiet H. H. tees .Forum Editor
L. D. ELKINS ‘First “Managing Editor R. Cc Campus Editor
W. M. HESTO Second Managing Editor D, H, C. A. Editor
R. R JONE: ...»-Assignment Editor Ww. 'T. by ed ‘ditor
E. H. MAUZE -Athletic Editor H. M. Antal) Editor
Cc. F. WILDMAN.. .-Alumni_ Editor W. Z Press Editor
Ww: SMACO KVR kore Heciarige’ Ed
PRESS SUNY
W. Z. BRADFORD........0 eee eens Manager F. GALLOWAY .......4 Assistant Manager
Atsitants
SMITH. C. F. BARRIN IN,. J. C. MINTER, J.
APPLEBY, i.M MeINTOSH, CLAUDE RALCHEORD, “BO. Db.
yt t tee) DEPARTMENT
wig COOPER..... see ees Business Manager
R. PRICE, J. D. nay ER. WE and W. G. GUILLE............64 Advertising Solicitors
Rastis S McCUTC Hin TCI) Office Assistant Bess ROSCii GUUUUUDUOGUURLY: Advertising Copy
CIRCULATION Dee ene
WATT McCAIN........ Circulation Manager MAING Ges secced Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Kialiuts
R, B. LILES E. C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON
9
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P.,. Pres. PRICE, IH. B.
Se R. H., Vice-Pres. SHARPE, W.’ Hs
OWN, C Sec-Treas. WALTH? ATE ph B.
ALLISON: 0. 5. WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, bot P. WILDMAN, ie ve
ARNEST, flab WILLIAMS, J.
: FARWELL.

The jinx that has pursued us ought to be cast off now. ‘The Wofford
game turned the trick and ushered in a winning streak that we don't want to
let escape us. The biggest game of the season comes Saturday, and as things
have turned out, winning it will bring more honor than ever before. Let’s all
get in a winning frame of mind, talk up the game, and when we go to Char-
lotte go with the determination not to leave a stone unturned that might help
bring a victory over Carolina.

D.
ARMISTICE DAY

INCE its institution as a Davidson custom in 1919, the Armistice Day cele-
bration has been steadily growing in interest and attraction. ‘The com-
mittee this year arranged a program that was excellent in every respect. What
we heard about our college, we knew to a large extent but we had not grouped
all her recent achievements together before nor realized the progress being
made,
died is also most fitting for this occasion. However, the best here was saved
for the last. None who heard Mr. Hamilton Holt speak could fail to think
how fortunate we were to have such a widely known man at Davidson. ‘The
pictures he drew for us from his experiences at home and abroad were as inter-
esting as they were instructive and inspiring. His whole talk was a treat that

everyone could and did eniey.
W HEN two short weeks have passed, Senior Week will be upon us. Com-
ing as it does right after Thanksgiving, the event should find us all in a
pleasant humor and anxious to enjoy the occasion. Without the co-operation
of everyone, whatever the Seniors may plan will not succeed as it should. As
things look at present, furthermore, this should be one of the best affairs of its
kind that has been held here. The exercises of the class will be as novel and
entertaining as was the carnival that was so successfully maneuvered last
Spring, All the Seniors will appear very different in their derbies, to say the
least, although it is perhaps somewhat dubious as to how much better their
appearance will be. This year’s minstrel also promises to be superior to any-
thing we have had.

With only few of us on the hill to see and enjoy it, this celebration will
lose its interest. It cannot really be a success. Everything will be done to help
entertain our guests, and everyone ought to try to have a girl up for the occa-
sion. The faculty has certainly granted a liberal holiday that should help make
this week-end pleasant. With Thanksgiving and Friday and Saturday off,
there is the possibility of an unsurpassed Senior Week. It will certainly bea
pity if instead of planning to enjoy one of Dav’dson’s few social events,
everyone makes rush to get away for these three days. If instead we will all
be here and help make this really interesting, it will do much toward putting

such events and establishing their place on our calendar.
D

A GAME IN GREENSBORO

T HIS season is the first in some time during which Davidson has played

one of her football games in Greensboro. That section of the State is
the home of quite a large number of,our alumni. It would certainly not do to
let their interest in the college grow cold, or their close touch with and support
of our teams cease. We lost to Trinity this year, but we had a large number
of supporters at the game, pulling hard for a Davidson victory. All these and
more want to see us come back next year and beat Trinity in Greensboro.

_ If this game could be made an annual affair there, it would be a fine move
on our part to do so. Every year more people would attend from the country
around, and enthusiasm would be worked up among them. We could plan for
it in advance here and make preparations that would give us a chance to

~ impress the town. Greensboro showed us this year how well she would sup-

port a game there, and we would make no financial.error by making that the
‘Place for our annual clash with Trinity. Considering the fact that such an
arrangement would bring so many desirable results with so few hindrances to
removed, why can’t it be done? If it is talked around and all favor it, we
inly should get this annual game scheduled.

SENIORS CELEBRATE SOON

The tribute paid every year to thé memory of our alumni who have

Win or Lose Our Team

Fellows, we have been somewhat disap-
pointed with the results of some of our
games this fall, It'is a rather bitter pill to
swallow to have some of the brethren of
other denominations to crow over us. Such
is life, however. So we must learn how to
takeelefeat as well as victory. This year we
have a good team. It happens that they
haven't won all the time but that wasn’t be-
‘cause they didn't try hard; ‘They have
fought hard as they could in every game and
they have been more disappointed than any
one of us at their defeats. The beauty of
football is the hard, gruelling fight from
start to finish. The team that stops tighting
becomes a joke. The team that fights as
hard as it can to the last whistle deserves
honor and glory even if the score is against
them. We all admire the man who keeps
fighting at any thing when the odds are
against him. Our team deserves more praise
and commendation because it has kept tight-
ing after losing several games than if they
had won every game. They need your sup-
port now more than ever. Let's get behind
them and root for them harder than ever.
Win or lose, our team, \ ROOTER.

Cheer Leaders

DAVIDSON SPIRIT is the one subject
of discussion that has lived through the years
and that has furnished a theme for Forum
articles and campus debeates siice tlie day of
ine foundation of the college. If any one
thing can he singled out as that thing to
whieh WILDCAT SPIRIT is to be most
attributed, that one thing is the CHEER
LEADER and his corps of assistants, [f-the
Cheer Leader is of the right calibre the pep
and enthusiasm is bound to follows

The Cheer Leader after a delayed. start,
has almost rounded pent up enthusiasm and
latent pep into a true WILDCAT SPIRIT
» but there is one thing that is lack-
ing in the formation of the cheer feading
That thing is the election of a suf-
ficient number of assistants. It is an Athletes
Association ruling that two assistants, aad it
would not be a bad idea to have that num-
bher increased, be elected each year from the
Junior class. The purpose of this provi-
sion is to train men for the next year as well
as to aid the officiattng Cheer Leader.

This article is not a knocker nor a criti-
cism of the present cheer leaders, but it is
an appeal and a demand that student regula-
tions be carried out in the election of the
aforementioned assistants, and at an early
date. This is a necessary step toward the
preservation and creation of next year’s
WILDCAT SPIRIT. Those of us who are
to be at Davidson for the next few years and
those of us who afe leaving this year to look
back on the GREATEST SPIRIT IN THE
WORLD want adequate and — properly
elected Assistant Cheer Leaders.

RAH! RAH!

this year

corps,

1D.

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

Davidson defeats Washington and fee, 20
to 0, in the first game of season. The Gen-
erals outweighed the Wildcats but were not
able to handle them. Johnson and Massey
showing up well, It was one of the greatest
games of the several seasons. Davidson's
goal line was in danger only twice.

The war work campaign will start today,
November 13, 1918. Davidson's last year
quota is doubled, $4,000 to be raised.

Lt. S. R. Keesler, Jr, ‘17, is reported
missing.. Lieutenant Keesler is from Green-
wood, Miss. He is in the aviation service
and has been missing since October 10th.
Lieutenant Keesler is well known in David-
son circles and known throughout the South
as one of the South’s best quarterbacks.

Davidson takes football championship
from Carolina, with a score of 14 to 7. Da-
vidson defeated Carolina in a game that will
rival any of the preceeding games in fight,
cleanliness and beauty. Those who went to
Winston will never forget that memorable
occasion.

Davidson College led all other colleges per
capita in the recent united war work cam-
paign. A whirlwind campaign lasted one
hour and $7,179.50 raised.

Guard honse-is, located in South wing of
Chambers. The people of Davidson are soon
to witness a new sight—a sentinel walking

post on D. C. campus.

.

~~
EXCHANGE

COLUMN

— =)

Its’ a wise child who goes out of the room
to laugh when the ‘old man mashes _ his
thumb. .

Clerk—"What hammock do

want?”

size you

Summer Girl—"Oh, a small hammock, just] °

big enough for one, but—er-strong enough
for two—Exchange. .

Rudolph — “Since you lost the bet, \
think | can claim the forfeit.”

Milda—"I really don’t know what
mean, and hesides someone might see us."—
The Technician,

you

Fools throw kisses;

Widow.

wise men deliver them
in person.

Father to Co-Ed (after examining his ex-
pense account-—-Do you think silk stockings
are absolutely necessary ?

Daughter—-Certainly—up
point. —The Humbug.

to a certain
Darling, can anything ever come between
us?
Eavedropper — (to
Penn State Froth.

“Siyy Pie
“Well, my son.”
“TL took a walk through the cemetery today
and read the inscriptions.”
“Well, what about it?”
“Where are all the Wicked people buried”
Syracuse Orange Peel.

‘There was a little girl
And she had a little curl
Right in the middle of her forehead.
And when she was good
She was very, very good,
But when she was bad—,
She was pop-u-l-a-r.—Ex,

Gladys—I am afraid you aren't as pretty
as nurse,

Mamma—What makes you think so?

Gladys—We've heen walking in the park a
whole hour, and not a single policeman has
said, “Hullo, baby, how's nurse ?”—Pearson’s
Weekly.

Drunken—'Where does Jim Murphy live?”

Friend—“Why, you're uy Murphy, old
top.”

mbrankenes" Deen it, I ow it, but where
does he live?” --Royal Gaboon.

The Wobbly One—
me f-fall?”

Officer—"Yes.”

The Wobbly One—“Had you ever sh-sheen
me before?”

Officer—‘No.” 5

The Wobbly One—“Then how d-did you
know it washz me?”—Ex,

“Offisher, did you she

1b), Purnefid_-My father was engaged to my
mother four years.

Effie Sawyer (absent mindedly)—Did he
ever marry her ?—The Twig.

The Scrub

Not so husky as the man
One step higher in the clan,
Or perhaps as good at bucking or as fagt;
But, as to grit and will,
He was even stronger still,
And for punch he had the varsity out-
classed.
Not a hero in the game,
But a scrub!
As a human punching bag
He would grin but never lag,
And as to giving up, he’d be the last!

He would watch the other play
In the glory of the day,
With a plea within his heart for them to
win
And he'd share the victor’s heat,
Right along with their defeat,
As he’d back them with his optimistic
vim!
But they do not shout his name,
He’s a scrub!
Yet he’s winning every game—
As a scrub!
Though he’s hidden from our sight,
Should we lose him in the fight,
Or let the jewels of his crown grow dim?
—The Technique.

himself )—Impossible f

By OKEY ALLISON
George Ragin spent the week-end with his
parents in Gastonia.

Wallace Moore on English V—"Professor,
how would you express the past tense of ‘He
Would it be, ‘He lied there ?’”

”

lies there?

“Ikey” Morris wrote an essay last week
for English on the subject: “The Habitually
Wonder where he got his dope?

Poor.”

It was impossible to get the names of all
the fair damsels who were on the Hill last
week, The Shelby-Monroe. game attracted
so many that to name them all would re-
quire a whole column.

Rev. W. A. Murray, 96, father of W. A.
Murray, Jr., '26, was an interested specta-
tor at the Shelby-Monroe game Friday. Mr. .
Murray held the college record for the mile
run until just a few years ago.

Pablo Price felt the need of sleep so badly
in church Sunday morning that he could
only be induced to arouse from his slumbers
by President Martin!

John Simpson claims to be a ladies man
now. He says Mrs. Smith writes him two
letters every week, and ‘he doesn’t have to
answer them at all.

—=

There's no doubt about it. Montague had
the fighting spirit Saturday.

Seniors forgot their dignity Saturday
night. At the Follies, bald head row was

well occupied by them. The line-up is as fol-
lows: Sloan, J. B.; Sorrels, G. B.; Syden-
stricker, R. B.; Morris, H. M.; Foil, M. B.;
Jooth, J. P., and Davis, J. H.

show ignorance by calling
See what Web-

Don't your
Greenwich “Greenwitch.”
ster says about it.

Brown seems to he the predominating color
among the student body this year, there being
12 representatives. White comes next, with
four, Black and Grey tie for third place with
tow each. Blue, Green and Scarlet each have
one representative.

Davidson has its share of nature, and the
out of doors—the Fields, Woods, Falls, Glen
and Bog. Animals and fowls of the air
come in for their part with Cranes, Crow,
Bird and Wolf. In this connection mention
is necessary of the Shepherds and the Hurd.

Misses Helen Ragen, Elizabeth Bowles
and Virginia Hinkle visited friends on the
campus Sunday.

D.

es
What’s Doing
THURSDAY
p. m.—Eumanean Society.
p. m. Phi Society.
FRIDAY
3p. m.—Davidson Freshmen vs.
Wofford Freshmen at Rock Hill, S,. C.
7:30 p. m.—Movies—“To Have and
To Hold.”
9 p.m.—Soph-Fersh bewetbullta game
SATURDAY

uN

y 11:50 a. m.—AIl aboard for Char-
lotte!

3 p. m.—Davidson vs. Carolina, in
Charlotte.

SUNDAY
10 a. m.—Volunteer Band.
11 a. m—Church services.
1 p. m—C. E. Training class.
1:45 p. m.—Ministerial Band.
3:50 p. m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p. m.—Vesper service.
TUESDAY
6:45 p. m.—Metrophilian Society.
7 p. m.—Pandeinic Society.
8 p. m.—Senior-Freshman_basket-
ball game. f
9 p. m.—Bible class leaders meet-
ing.
WEDNESDAY
7 p. m.—Eu Freshman Society.
9 p. m.—Bible classes.

Naughty! Naughty!
The sofa sagged in the center
The shades were pulled just so,
The family had retired,
The parlor light burned low,
There came a sound from the sofa
As the clock was striking two,
And the co-ed slammed her text- book
With a thankful, “Well, I’m through.”—
Beanpot. |

The flapper’s motto—“Save the surface and

you save all.”—Juanita Echo. ef
