2 THE

DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 2, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH Forum Editor

L. D. ELKINS First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN_ Campus Editor

W. M. HESTON._--_-_- Second Managing Editor D. H. OGDEN Y. M. C. A. Editor

J. S. GRACY Assignment Editor W. T. ELLIOTT -Social Editor

E. H. MAUZE Athletic Editor H. M. MORRIS Literary Editor

F, C. WILDMAN Alumni Editor W. Z. BRADFORD Press Editor
W. M. COX Exchange Editor

ar Ry

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres. JONES, J. R. MOFFETT, A. N.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres. JONES, R. R. MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas. KNOX, W. I. MOSS, H. M.
ALLISON, O. J. LACY, T. A PRICE, H. B

TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WHARTON, D. B

WILDMAN, A. C

McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
MAUZE, G. W.
SHARPE, W. H.

BITZER, R.
CALHOUN, M. P.
EARNEST, J. RB.
FEWELL, ED.

.
.

ADDITIONAL REPORTERS: CURDTS, J. W.; POMEROY, W. L.; TROTTER,, J. M.;
AUSTIN, J.; BRIGGS, J. R.; PATTON, J. H.; McLEAN, G.; WEEKS, E. E.; SPRAGINS,
T. D.; CALHOUN, L. E.; SHARPE, W. H.; PATTERSON, P. M.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

W. J. COOPER Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE Assistant Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

Assistants in Circulation Department:
Rk. B. LILES E. THROWER

WATT: McCAIN... _--.. Circulation Manager
‘f E. C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

S. C. FAIN Asst. Circulation Mgr.

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible
EDITORIAL

In two weeks we will find what we have wanted for years! Not
only will one new dormitory be added to the row, but now we will have
two more. West and East are buildings any college could be proud of.

D

This year the old traditions of Davidson, the democratic spirit of
the student body, must be kept alive by us as well if not better than in
the past. Every new man should make it his ambition to learn all the
upper-classmen. The old men can lend a helping hand, train the new
men and be their friends. Let’s all speak whenever we meet each other.

D

Coach Grey has certainly made a wonderful success in advancing
Davidson’s athletics. We will realize this particularly when we get back
and find a new athletic field being made ready for the freshman teams,
and coaches able to give us a winning football team. Everybody get
behind the team from the start.

&

D

Won’t our big new bell sound good! No more whistles and bugles
to disturb the peaceful campus, but areal bell again, four or five times the
size of the old one, to call us to classes.

oD .
Our Prospect This Year

Whether we return to Davidson after a vacation of three months
or enter for the first time to begin our new year’s work, a different and
better college will open its doors to us this fall. Two new and modern
dormitories cannot fail to attract the eye and gain the admiration of
each of us as we glance for the first time down dormitory row, and
make us feel that Davidson has received a new life for this year’s work.
Not even the fact that our cherished old Chambers building can no more
be the center of our campus life can now detract from the spirit of
progress which soon even in its place will have a new seat for the ad-
ministrative affairs of the college.

The spirit of unrest that came over all the students, especially last
spring, had numerous causes that were hardly preventable then. With
the opening of school this month practically all of these will have been
removed. Our new quarters will not be crowded at all; every room will
be more comfortable with only two occupants, and a much more stu-
dious atmosphere can be maintained in the rooms. Then, too, the en-
tire campus will seem large and more comfortable since we will have five
dormitories to live in, and not be crowded in three.

These conditions, therefore, should make an ideal foundation upon
which to start a profitable and successful year. In it much can be ac-
complished by all who really come to work, and we hope that every man
who registers will have such a determination. The new system of grad-
uation in which hours are counted anda greater degree of specialization
allowed, is another inducement to study. Here, especially, one should
realize that each year’s work is dependent upon the preceding and un-
less he masters his elementary courses, it will be impossible to major in
them with any degree of success or pleasure.

This leads us to say a word to the new men who have decided to
come to Davidson. Look over the entire four years of the course that
_ you intend to take and be certain that you know what you are getting.
Don’t be careless and start in a course that looks easy the first year. If
you do, it will very probably result iyour desiring to change or mix your
studies, too often leading to failure. Besides knowing what is in the cour
se you get, get a course you want. Then determine to take it all and
graduate at Davidson. We want those who enter as freshmen this fall
to stay four years, and not to drop out or change schools in one year or
two, finally ending by not acquiring the knowledge and the degree now
so coveted. And as the college is of the most value to the men who

stay their full four years, so these are the men who are of greatest value
to the college. R. F_ D.

FACULTY DOINGS |

(Continued from page 1)
and children have been in Davidson most

| of the summer.

Professor Wood and family are sum-
mering at Lewisburg, W. Va, Professor
Wood had a short stay in the hospital
but is reported as being on his feet again.

Dr. and Mrs. Harding have divided
their time between Charlotte, Davidson,
and Montreat.

Mr. Hengeveld’s vacation was spent
in Waycross, Ga. Mrs. Hengeveld has
been there all summer, and has been re-
cently seriously ill. This is the first op-
portunity the Davidsonian has had of in-
troducing little Miss Hengeveld who will
be a new . resident at Davidson’ this
winter.

Coach Grey’s addres changed daily for]

part of the summer, he being out on the
road in the interest of athletics and
athletic equipment. Mrs. Grey and H.
M. Junior have been at Greenwood, S.C.

Professor Thies has been studying in
Cornell University this summer, while
Mrs. Thies has been in Charlotte.

Prof. L. M. Currie has also been study- |

ing at Cornell, while Mrs. Currie has
visited home folks in Niagara Falls, N. Y.

Mr. Jackson has “been on the job” all
summer, with the exception of a few
days when he attended the Educational
Conference at Montreat. Mrs. Jackson
and children have spent the summer in
Davidson. ?

Miss Shaw, the librarian, is spending
the month of August at Balsam, N. C.

Miss Hattie Thompson, assistant to
the treasurer, spent her vacation at home
in Davidson.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson, secretary to

the dean and treasurer, spent several

weeks during July visiting friends and
relatives in Montreat and Lumberton,
N.C :

Miss Orrie Steele, secretary to the

president, spent her vacation in Cleve-|

land, Ohio, and on Cass Lake,
Detroit, Michigan.

Mrs. Robson has spent the months of
July and August in New York City.

Dr. C®M. Richards held several evan-
gelistic meetings in the early part of the
summer, and later joined his family for
his. vacation at. their cottage in Mon-

near

“treat. *

Major and Mrs. Hearn, and Thomas
G., Junior, were in Davidson for the first
part of the summer. When Major Hearn
went to camp Mrs. Hearn took advan-
tage of his absence to visit her parents,
Col. and Mrs. Jadwin, in Charleston,
S. GC. ’

Captains Ellis, Weatherby and George
attended camp and are back on duty
ready for another good year with us.

Mr. Ryan, Sergeants McLellan and
Marshall are back from camp and read
for school to open..:

Mrs. N. T. Smith will be supervisor of
the dormitories. To many of the
boys she needs no introduction. Her
presence in the dormitories will add a
touch of neatness and cleanliness to
dormitory life that has been heretofore
lacking and that will be genuinely ap-
preciated by the boys. Mrs. Smith serv-
ed during the war in Red Cross and Y.
M. C. A. work and made a reputation for
herself that has brought frequent calls
for after-war service of a similar nature.
She has had a position this summer in
New York City. Mrs. Smith’s experience
in working with young men will qualify
her in a particular manner for her serv-
ice at Davidson. Mrs. Smith has lived
in Davidson for a number of years. Her
refined personality and dignified manner
will win many friends for her on the
Davidson campus.

Mr. H. A. Murrill, Jr., whose coming
to Davidson was announced last spring,
will be on hand at the opening to assist
Coach Grey in putting out a winning
bunch of Wildcats. 2

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

September 23—Elon-Davidson College. |

September 290—South Carolina at Clin-
ton.

October 7—Georgia Tech at Atlanta.

October 14—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

October 21—V. P. I. at Davidson.

October 28—Trinity (place undecided.)

November 4—North Carolina State at
Raleigh.

November 11—Wofford at Charlotte.

November 30—Furman at Greenville.

Don’t forget to put a pair sheets in
your suitcase—your trunk is liable to
miscarry or be delayed.

COLLEGE AND TOWN IM-
PROVEMENT

The campus and streets of Davidson

have been alive with men and teams|

passing to and fro in the numerous jobs
of construction. :

The students will be interested first in
the new dormitories and the progress
that has been made in their erection.
West Building is completed with the ex-
ception of putting on the locks and set-
ting up the bathroom fixtures. The
plastering, plumbing, painting, etc., is be-
ing rushed with all possible haste in
East Building. It is still hoped that this
building will be ready to be occupied
when college opens. This is the best we
can hope for, however. These are quite
handsome buildings and afford every con-
veniences that student life could ask for.
Most of the furniture is on hand and
other is being received daily. The wood
work of the rooms is stained dark oak,
while the floors are finished with boiled
linseed oil flooded on. The _ corridor
floors are concrete and the stairsteps,

‘slate.

The Georgia, Watts, and Rumple build-
ings are being treated to a coat of cal-
cimine. Bookshelves have been built
in on each end of the study tables adding
a convenience heretofore lacking. It is

hoped to have the outside wood work of

Georgia, Watts, Rumple and the Library
painted before the students return. The
Chemistry building, and the residence
occupied by Dr. Harding, Dr. J. M. Mc-
Connell and Mr. Jackson have already
been painted.

The work on the new boiler room, sit-
uated east of the laundry, is well under
way. Two new 150 H.P. boilers have
been purchased and are on the ground.
Contract has been let and work will be-
gin within a few days toward laying the
steam mains to-the new dormitories, to
North and South dormitories, and to
the gymnasium. These buildings are all
to be connected with the new central
heating plant.

Excavation has been completed for
building an extension to the church. It
is hoped this will be completed within a
few weeks.

Of the Chambers’ debris nearly 350,000
brick have been cleaned, and three thou-

sand loads of brick bats and trash have}

been hauled away and placed in washed-
out alleys around town and in the big
gullies on the golf course.

Mr. J. Lee Sloan has erected two hand-
some store-rooms on Main Street, one
occupied now by Mr. Henderson, the
jeweler, and the other to be used as the
post office as soon as new fixtures, now
overdue, arrive.

Mr. J. V. Knox is building three store-
rooms between the telephone office and
Goodrum’s store. It is reported that
contract has recently been let for a
brick garage between Goodrum’s store
and the meat market, which will be used
for a Ford sales agency and to do gen-
eral repair work. “Smiley” has installed
new equipment in his restaurant. The
“New York Cafe” will occupy the build-
ing vacated by the jewelry store.

The concrete base and header for the
new hard surfaced road from Charlotte
to Davidson has been completed from
the town limits on the North to the
railroad under the pass below the oil
mill. It is expected that the Tarvia
binder will be finished by the time col-
lege opens.

BOARDING HOUSES

Managers, Capacity, and Price Per
Month

Miss Shumaker—W. A. Gamble and A.
C. Wiedman, 200, $17.00. _

Mrs. Marnes—so, $17.50. -

S. A. Thompson—J. D. Bernhardt, 85,
$20.00.

Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Wiliamson—W. T.
Elliott, 35, $20.00.

Mrs. L. R. Smith—Ed Fewell, 20, $25.00.

Mrs. L. B. Long—H. M. Morris, 30,
$25.00.

Mrs. Brady—

Mrs. White.

Mrs. Bramblet (Mrs. Henderson’s.)

Room Regulations
- Only two men to the room.

Only two lights of 50 watts each to a

room. -
Furniture must not be _ transferred
from one room to another.
No one will be allowed to change
room without first reporting to the of-
fice.

DIRECTORY OF THE OFFICERS
OF STUDENT ORGANIZA-
TIONS AT DAVIDSON
COLLEGE

1. General Secretary of Y. M. C. A,
A. L. Currie.

2.--President of Y. M. €, A, C. R.
Crawford. = .

3. President of Student Body, S.
Davis, Jr.

4. President of Athletic Association,
W. S. Shepard, Jr.

5. Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian,
R. F. Davidson. ;
6. Editor-in-Chief of The Magazine,
W. J. Cooper.

7. Editor-in-Chief
Cranks, W. S. Buchanan.

8. President of Senior Class, G. B.
Sorrells.

9. President of Junior Class, E. S.
Faison.

10. President of Sophomore Class,
McP. S. Beall.

Il, President of Freshman Class.
(Elected after Christmas.)

12. President of Eumenean Literary
Society, W. T. Elliott.

13. President of Pandeinic Literary
Society, W. A. Gamble, Jr.

14.. President of Metrophilian Literary
Society, L. P. Burney.

15. President of Philanthropic Lit-
erary Society, H. K. Russell.

16. Major of R. O. T. C., W. J. Cooper.

17. President of Volunteer Band, G.
E. Weeks.

18. President of Ministerial Band, W.
T. Baker.

19. President of Christian Endeavor
Training Class, J. L. McLean.

M.

of and

Quips

20. Captain of Football Team, J. S.
Moore.
21. Captain of Baseball Team, C. R.

Crawford.

22. Captain of Basketball Team, G. W.
Mauze.

23. Captain of Track Team—

24. Captain of Tennis Team, S. H.
Bradley.
25. Captain of Golf Team—

26. President of Dramatic Club, E. T.
Woolfolk, Jr. :

27. Band Leader—

28. Glee Club Leader, R. L. McLeod,
Jr.

BY THE WAY—
By the Mental Meanderer

The Main Street Open Forum was dis-
cussing men and measures and specu-
lating as to the whys and wherefore of
the success of some and the failure of
others. |

“Indecision,” said one member of the
group, “spoils more careers than any
other one thing. I’ve seen and you’ve
seen men who, because of their physical
and mental equipment and ambition
ought to have been successful men in
their particular lines. But they were
failures, very largely because of the
fact that they seemed to lack the power
of making a decision. In the matter of
even trivial things they wavered. Fear
of making a mistake was their great
bugbear, or perhaps fear of adverse
criticism from some sourse. They
couldn’t decide. And as a result when
great opportunities came along they fail-

ed to meet the test. The old saying that

‘he who hesitates is lost’ has a world of
truth in it.”

To all of which the Mental Meanderer
gave his hearty endorsement. He has
seen more than one illustration of this
very striking truth. On the other hand
we see men of very mediocree ability
push themselves to success because they
did not hesitate; they had the power to
make decisions when the time came.
They made mistakes, of course, as all of
us do. But they didn’t waver and vacil-
late and change their minds. They
adopted a course of action and then
bent every energy toward the accom-
plishment of the thing sought for. No
fear that a wrong decision had been
made was gnawing at their vitals.

If boys and girls’ just beginning to
prepare for life could have this lesson
indelibly stamped on their memories
how much failure, misery and distress
would they avoid in after life—Gastonia
Gazette.

PHILOSOPHY II
The course in Philosophy 2 is open to
Juniors and Seniors. Any Junior or Sen-
ior will have sufficient preparation for
the course if he has had Philosophy i or
is this. session taking Psychology 1.
