Do You Want
Hazing?

THE DAVID SONIAN

Down toWork
Basketeers!

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

—— |

4

Vol. X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 14, 1922

No. 12

EIGHT STALWART WILDCATS
FIGHT THEIR LAST BATTLE

Red and Black Scraps Valiantly,
But Closes Inauspicious
n

SHEPHERD WILL RETURN

V. P. I. Contest Written Lumi-

nously On Pages of David-
son Football History

The standard--excuse for sports writers
everywhere, in their attempt to explain a
poor season, is “the breaks were against us.”
The writer would like to be original bit the
facts prevent it.

The 1922 football season cannot by any
stretch of imagination be called successful.
Two victories, two ties and six defeats is
hardly up to the standard set by Davidson
teams of a few years ago. Material and
spirit seemed to be plentiful, but a cog was
slipping somewhere. Here’s hoping it's fixed
by next season.

Several games that should have been won
by the Wildcats were chalked up on the
wrong side of the ledger. Apparently Dame
Fortune would merely wave her hand,
something would happen and the Wildcat

pocketbooks would be a little flatter.’ And it
happened with montonous regularity
throughout the year. From the time that a
misplaced goal post gave a team a safety and
a one-point victory until the failure to make
first down by one-half an inch produced the
same result, the Wildcats were altogether
under a jinx.

The Red and Black played a superior
brand of ball in many games this season.
That valiant fight against V. P. I. will long
be remembered by those who saw it; the
scores in the Georgia Tech and Furman
games show the Wildcats could play good
football. But somehow the.games managed
to slip away one by one.

Eight Wildcats have completed their grid-
iron careers and will view the games from
the sidelines hereafter. Captain Moore,
Davis, McMasters, Sorrells, Brice, Martin,
Long and Dick have hung up their cleated
shoes for the last time. These veterans of
many gridiron campaigns will be sorely miss-
ed when the roll is called next fall.

The news that Gig Shepherd has an
nounced his intention of returning to col-
lege next fall has been the occasion of much
rejoicing among the Red and Black sup-

(Continued on page 4)
D.

WELL BALANCED SCHEDULE 10
CONFRONT 1923 GRID TEAM

Washington and Lee, Clemson
and Sewanee Are New
Teams On List

Manager Hugh Smith has been working
hard for some time arranging the schedule
for the 1923 football team. Although it is
as yet incomplete, several games have been
either definitely or tentatively decided upon.
Judging from these contests, the Wildcats
will be up against a hard but well-balanced
schedule next fall. wy

At—least-one- team that Davidson” played]

this year will not have a place on next year’s

schedule. It«has been definitely decided to

discontinue the annual game with Georgia

Tech. Many will regret the fact that this

action has been taken, for with the excep-

tion of the S. A. T. C. year, the Golden
(Contined on Page 6)

A DAY FOR OTHERS

There is one way to make a white
Christmas even though there may be
not a flake of snow in sight. Let the
whiteness be in your heart. Put aside
all thoughts of guile. Forget all the
big or little bitterness you may be en-
tertaining some some other person.
Cast out all envy, all covetousness,
all unkindness. Endeavor to harbor
in your heart only such thoughts and
feelings as the Nazarene knew when
he dwelt by Galilee. Cultivate human
brotherhood. Practice Christian
charity. Look beyond and above your
workaday horizon. Get out of your-
self. Get into the heart of others.—
Selected.

D.

NEW PROPOSAL AIMS DEATH
BLOW AT CUSTOM OF HAZING

Complete Abolition of Tradi-
tional Institution Is Préposed
By Prominent Students

To haze or not to haze—that is the ques-

tion? The student council is now taking
steps to decide whether the Freshmen will
be subject to hazing as has been practiced on
the Hill this year.
} Wazing has been very light compared to
former years, but an effort is being made
to wholly eliminate this means employed by
upper classmen in demonstrating their su-
periority over the lowly Freshmen, and in-
stitute a court of control in its place.

Last Friday morning, at a meeting of the
student body, Sam Davis, president of this
oragnization, and Bascomb Sorrells, presi-
dent of the Senior class, laid on the table
plans for the substitution of a court of
control for the vigilance committee. The
court of control, as offered by the student
council, will be composed of cight members--
four Seniors, two Juniors and two Sopho-
mores. These men are to be selected by the
president of the student body in conference
with the Senior members of the student
council. ‘There will be one judge who will

(Continued on Page 5)
T).

WILDGAT MINSTRELS RENDER
PETITION FOR TRIP ABROAD

Trip Planned to Advertise Da-
vidson Campaign Gaining
In Favor

The Wildcat Minstrels plan to take the
trips of the Glee Club, provided the faculty
gives its consent. Four trips, including Con-
verse and Peace, have been arranged by the
Glee Club, with others pending, and it is
hoped that the Minstrels can accompany
them.

Bob MacLeod, representing the Glee Club,
and Tubby Woolfolk, of the Dramatic Club,
will discuss the matter with Doctor Martin
on his return from New Orleans. Other
members of the faculty have been approach-
ed on the subject and they have expressed
their willingness to back the movement.
Professor Erwin will supervise the trips, and
will psobably accompany the Minstrels.

More than likely, the same cast, consist-
ing of 23 men who presented the minstrel
here, will make the trips. It is planned by
the management of the Minstrels to:take the
scenery belonging to the Dramatic Club.

It is hoped that the Minstrels will be per-
mitted to play five engagements. Practically

(Continued on page 4)

CHAMBERS CAMPAIGN ROUNDS
HALF WAY MARK 10 SUCCESS

Churches, Alumni and Friends
of Davidson Rally to
the Cause

OUTLOOK IS BRIGHT

Memorial Rooms Provided By
Special Donations—Tablets
Will Be Erected
By C. F. SMITH
According to a statement made by Mr.
Malcolm Lockhart, manager of the David-
son College campaign, on Monday of this
week, around $325,000 or over half of the
$600,000 needed for the replacing of the
Chambers building and increased endowment
(Contined on Page 6)

THREE-MILE CROSS-COUNTRY
WON EASILY BY STATE TEAM

Selser Runs Good Race, While
Galloway and McBryde are
Forced Out

The old jinx that has been tracking Da-
vidson athletics all this fall laid hold of the
cross-country team at Chapel Hill this week
and the Wildcats failed to furnish the three
men necessary to count in the three-mile run,
Selser finished in fifth place. but Galloway
and McBryde were troubled with bad sides.
McBryde having to:drop out. while Galloway
finished way down the list.

Ranson, of Carolina, won the event in the
remarkable time of 15 minutes and 42 sec-
onds, on a muddy course. Corkle, of State,
came in the second, and when two other State
men finished in third and fourth place State
won the run. Selser ran almost a dead heat
with Milstead, of Carolina, but nosed him
out in a sprint to the tape for fifth place.
Carolina won second place by finishing men
first, sixth and cighth. Davidson and Trinity
failed to finish three men, and Elon failed to
turn up at the last moment.

D:

What’s Doing

THURSDAY

1 p. m.—Eu Society. |
1 p. m.—Phi Society.
SATURDAY

7:30 p. m.—Movies—“The Impossi-
ble Mrs. Bellew’— a Paramount pic-
ture.

SUNDAY
10:00 a. m —Union Band—Dr.

Wells will speak.

1 p. m—C. E. Training Class.

3:30 p. m.—Sunday School.

6:15 p. m.—Vesper service — Dr.
Wells, president of Columbia Semi-
nary, will be the speaker.

i MONDAY

8:45 a. m—Student body votes on
constitutional amendments.
‘7? p. m.—Pandeinic Society.

TUESDAY
6:45 p. m.—Metrophilian Society.
9 p. m—Bible Class Leaders.
WEDNESDAY
1:30 p. m—Home, Sweet Home!

A DAY OF FUN

lf Christmas is peculiarly the fes-
tival of joy, the day when the glad
ness of the deliverance in which every
Christian believes is expressed, the
American people have certainly done
well in continuing the festival where
“its celebration is native to them, and
reviving it where it had become obso-
lete. The whole human race, and
particularly the youthful part of it,
is fairly entitled to a good deal of
merrymaking. © Wholesome fun helps
to form a well rounded character—
to build up a complete man or woman
—and to this extent is the handmaid-
en of religion itself.—Selected.

D

RED CROSS CHAPTER OFFERS
DRAMATICS BY LOCAL TALENT

Two One-Act Plays and Speech
By Tuberlosis Expert to
Stimulate Seal Sale

Two one-act plays, presented by. local
talent, pleased a good audience and cast a
few dollars into the coffers of the local Red
Cross chapter when “Joint Owners in Spain”
and “The Neighbors” were presented in
Shearer Hall auditorium last Saturday night
by the Davidson chapter of the Red Cross,
These plays were well enacted and the char-
acters showed up well under the direction of
Mrs. Russell H. Wagner.

The first play, “Joint Owners in Spain,”
in which the parts were ably taken by Misses
Johnsie Shelton, Ruth  Tfenderson, Mary
Black and Margaret Adams, depicted the
cramped room in a Spanish flat with two
cross old maids as roommates. It showed
the old women as they used a chalk line for
a partition between their rooms and, through

‘many difficulties, they finally became friends

going on a sleigh ride together.

The clasing play was “The Neighbors” in
which Mrs. Wagner was ‘Mrs. Abel,” Mrs.
Sam ‘Grandmother,” while
Miss Jean Martin took the part of ‘Inez

aes on Page 5)

Presson was

WILDCAT FORENSI ARTISTS
PREPARED FOR W.&L. CONTEST

Ogden and Gamble, With Whar-
ton As Alternate, Com-
pose Team

At Lexington, Va., on the evening of De-
cember 16, the Wildcat debating team, com-
posed of Arnett Gamble and Dunbar Ogden,
will lock horns with Washington and Lee
in the first debate between these institutions
since 1919, The question is, Resolved, That
the United States government should cancel
the debts made to her European allies since
April 6th, 1917. Davidson will uphold the
affirmative side of this debate.

The men who will strive to maintain Da-
vidson’s famous debating record are well
qualified for the task. This is Gamble’s third
year of intercollegiate debating and, in ad-
dition to this, he was Davidson’s representa-
tive in-the Peace contest of last year. Ogden’s
record also is worthy of note. He has won
practically every speaking contest which was
open to him in the past three years and was
also a member of one of last year’s debating
teams. The alternate, D. Benton Wharton,
has done excellent work in his society since
his arrival last year, and will be in charge

(Continued on Page 4)

FIVE VARSITY LETTER MEN
PROMISE A BANNER SEASON

Coaches Hengeveld and Grey
Have Wealth of Material
With Which to Work

SCHEDULE IS BALANCED

Captain Mauze Feels Confident
of a Red Letter Season for
the Poison Squad

The King is dead. Long live the King.
The curtain has fallen on the last act of the
football drama, and the calcium rays of the
spotlight are now focused on the new hero—
basketball, The cleated shoes, shoulder pads,
moleskins and other implements of the, pig-
skin game have but hung safely away in the
lockers, and the court game holds the center

of the stage.

The Red and Black seems destined to have
another banner year on the court, Irom last
year’s squad which made the best record ever
turned sin by a Davidson basketball team, five
letter men have returned. In addition there
is a wealth of material that has been devel-
oped hy serub and class ball. Although their
cligibility is as yet a doubtful matter, the
Freshman class has several stars of the first
water. ;

Warhoss Mauze, “the rangy lad from the
wilds of West Virginia,” is captain of the
quintet this year, Warhoss has developed a
great deal under the watchful eye of Coach
Dutch, and in addition to being the highest
scorer on last year’s team, he proved to be a
valuable floor man. Tle underwent an opera-
tion for appendicitis last summer, but judg-
ing from the manner in which he cavorts
around the floor, he has fully recovered. He
was selected for the all-State team last
spring, and is sure to be a tower of strength
at the pivot position this year.

Pat Crawford, another lad who has been
selected far the all-State team, will again
stem his stuff from the running guard posi-
tion. Pat was captain of last year’s Poison
Squad, and is a combination of carbolic acid,
argenic and T. N. T; He has been making
varsity trips sae three years and his ex-
perience, fight and ability are sure to make
him a big factor in again placing the Red
and Black in line for the State champion-
ship.

Nappy Davis, who has magnets in his fin-
gers to enable him to pull down unheard of
passes, has exchanged his cleated shoes for
a pair of the non¢skid variety. He is no less

(Continued on page 8)
T).

NEW FEATURES PLANNED FOR
PAGES OF 1923 YEAR BOOK

Question of Finances Is Staff’s
Most Serious Problem

According to the present plans the 1923
number of Quips and Cranks will be one of
the biggest and fullest annuals ever published
at Davidson, In an interview with a David-
sonian reporter, Business Manager R. L.
McLeod stated that the new annual will con-
tain three distinctly new features, namely, a
double color invocation, a scenic section,
and an enlarged sponsor section.

It has not yet been decided to whom the
annual will be dedicated nor have all the
sponsors been: selected. Practically all the
organizations on the hill will have a sponsor.

It was also stated by the business mana-
ger that so far only a very few advertise-
ments have been secured and hence the pub-

(Continued on Page 5)

AK Merry, Gappy Christmas!

