4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

lina Collegiate Press Association
ee oer Br Seutinea Collegiate Press Association.

| FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

..--Editor-in-Chief . P. PRICE Forum Editor
 & i Bianaging Baitor | 8. CURRY --;Campus Editor
H. H. Managing itor Cc ] Ha Eattor

. SPRUNT Social Edi
RE Assigeictic Editor D, H. OGDEN, jR- Literary Editor
™ cs -Alumni_ Editor Wi-J) (COORBRi-22. 22-225 coc2cce Press Editor

J. H. McKEITHEN.......---

Exchange Editor

CLUB

REPORTERS’

; FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BEDFORD, Ww %. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. 11,
BROWN, C. V. HESTON W. M. MORRI iti Sec.-Treas.

} ONES, J. R. 1» RH.

BROHOUN, M. P. Jones: Ri TULLER, C. YS
COX, W. M. NOX, W. I. WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D. LACY, T._A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. UZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

Manager

. C. WOOL -..-Busi ;
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLFoLk and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. DOUBLES....--.- Circulation Manager Assi in Circulati Department:
o . D. TULLER b (eh IN bP. C. HENDERSON
HOR Sead Re Circuletion Managers WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The signs of increased activity on the site of our proposed new
dormitories are bringing fresh encouragement to the student body.
There will be no lack of rooms next fall at any rate.

D
We learn from the press reports that some one has just invented a
serum which will make a man tell the truth, Now why doesn’t some-
body come forward with an antitoxitt for the spring fever?

7

CLASS SPIRIT.

HEE lesson brought out in last week’s Open Forum discussion un-

I der the title of “A Square Deal” is one which may well be taken

to heart by the entire student body. The writer, who signs him-

self ’23, takes up the cudgels in behalf of the much abused Sophomore

cless and speaks of the unjust treatment which it has received at the

hands of the other students, Admitting that the class is by no means

perfect, he points out the fact thatit is nevertheless possessed of many

virtues and that much of the criticism which has been directed against
it might much better have been left unspoken,

The point is in our opinion welltaken, for the instance mentioned
is one in which such criticism offered in the wrong spirit may very easily
do more harm than good. It may be true, and probably is, that the
Sophomores have deserved many of the reproaches which have been
heaped upon them, but it is also true that none of the other classes have
attained such a state of perfection as to be able to indulge in any slight-
ing remarks about them.

Class spirit and class rivalry unquestionably have an important part
to play. in the life of the college. Without them’athletics would languish,
many valuable institutions and customs of campus life would be neg-
lected, and the fellowship of the students would be less close. It is a
poor class whose members are not loyal to one another and filled with a
spirit of pride in their common aspirations and achievements, and it is a
poor man who would wish to change his class for another. When class
spirit reaches such a point that it can see only the good in its own class
and nothing but faults in the others, however, it has gone a bit too far
for the common good. Let us be more tolerant.

D.

A NEGLECTED ACTIVITY.

Davidson has already been engaged in one inter-collegiate debate
this year. In this contest her debaters were victorious over Randolph-
Macon by a four to one decision of the judges. Within a few weeks
another team is to meet the representatives of Wake Forest in a simi-
lar contest, and it is probable that before the end of the spring term still
another institution will be met in forensic struggle. Davidson debat-
ers have made and are making an enviable record for their college, but
in spite of this fact the vast majority of the students manifest little or
no interest in the efforts of their representatives. This is not as it should
be.

It is only natural that athleticsshould take first place in the
thoughts of the student body. There is something fascinating about
a contest in physical skill and endurance between two well trained
teams; something which appeals to man’s primeval instinct to match
his strength with that of another. It is this fact which gives athletics
the high place it holds in the colleges of today, and which will in all prob-
ability keep it there throughout the years to come. A successful ath-
lete earns by hard labor the support and admiration of his fellows, and
we would not, if we could, lessen his reward.

We do contend, however, that the man who represents an institution
in a contest of brains is also worthy of the honor which his college
mates can offer him. Is the ability to stand before a crowd and think
clearly and coolly less to be desired than physical prowess? Is it more
honorable to be a good broken field runner or an invincible pitcher
than to sway an entire audience bythe power of oratory? The latter
may be less spectacular, it is true, but it is none the less valuable for
that. The intercollegiate debater works just as hard for his college as
does the greatest athlete of them all, and should be given the recogni-
tion and praise which he so well deserves.

|

Open Forum}.

CAST THAT BALLOT!

—— |
We have in college more than four)
hundred and fifty men. Less than three}
|hundred and fifty of these voted in the
| first student’ body election of the spring.
|A hundred men or more did not show,
| cnough interest in one of the major}

— |activities of the campus to cast a vote

cne way or the other. How these might
have voted is not known, but the fact
that they did not vote cither way even
when two check marks and their signa-
ture was all that was necessary, is to
be regretted. |

A citizen who doesn’t care enough)
about how his community is run to vote,
is not worthy of citizenship in.the com-|
munity. The student who is not enough |
interested in his school activities to vote |
for the men suggested as leaders in the|
various college activities is not worthy |

|

| This is over! It is high time that a
|good percentage of our students waked
}up and observed what is going on around
|them., It is high time that this percent-
jage did some intelligent thinking for
themselves and then evidence this think-
ing in lending their efforts to the pro-
motion of the best interests of the cam-
pus life, \

It should not be possible at Davidson,
which has a reputation at least for
democracy, for any man to hold an of-
fice which is decided by student vote
unless he has more than half as many
votes as there are studénts in the col-
lege.

There will be several other elections
this spring. We have good men avail-
Let's consider who the best men
are and vote for them at all cost!

—46.

able.

D

DR. VANDER MEULEN HELPS
(Continued from page 1)

the attempt be made to fit round pegs

in square holes.

A tower is a place of refuge as well as
a thing of beauty. When trouble comes
if is a place to which we may retreat, as
was done in the olden days. Dr. Vander
Meulen told of the psychological truth
employed by salesmen who show their
article and ,its merits first and not let
the price be known until the last. And
so if one keeps his eye on the tower, its
necessity will become so evident and his
desire for it will become so great that
the price will become insignificant.

Dr. Vander Meulen’s addresses have
been a great deal of help in aiding stu-
dents to “find themselves” and to in-
telligently judge what they are best fit-
ted for. The keen interest that the ad-
dresses have aroused among the stu-
dents is evinced by the way they have
been attending the services.

Friday Night.

On Friday night, Dr. Vander Meulen
spoke on, “The Essentials of Leadership,”
his text being taken from Isa. 32:2.

In the man of the future, there will be
two sides which he must develop, in
order to be a leader, namely the physical
and moral. As was true in the time of
Isaiah, Dr. Vander Meulen showed that
today there are two main elements of
leadership: first, stay against drifts, and
second, refreshment from the heat of
the world.

There are many kinds of drifts which
may easily imperil the life of man. In
the first place, there are drifts of here-
dity. Every man -receives, to a certain
degree, a drift of some nature, through
heredity. The only way to overcome
this danger is to place it behind and hide
it forever. There’are many other drifts
that one can meet through environment.
Jesus, a man of stupendous bravery, was
censtatitly surrounded by drifts of en-
vironment, but He turned His back on
them,

In the second place, a true leader must
always be a refreshment. His life may
be compared to the different stages of
a river, which is always refreshing,
though there are many changes con-
stantly taking place.

A leader must be willing to talk Christ
in his busiest hours. He must be simple,
cheerful and happy in religion.

Sunday Night.

The culmination of the life work cam-
paign came Sunday night, when Dr. Van-
der Meulen spoke at the “Y” service on
the subject, The Attractiveness of the
Ministry.

of a place on the campus. |

{back .2.g2in—Adv.

| The service was opened with a live, |

enjoyable musical program, part of which
consisted of a duet by Allison and Buch-
anan and a quartet by Ted Jones, Bob}
McLeod, A. L. Currie, and D. P. er
Geachy. a |

Dr. Vander Meulen, after paying some!
marks of respect to Dwight Chalmers, |
the “Charmer,” delivered one of the most |
powerful addresses of his series. The}
attractiveness of the ministry was con-
sidered from three angles—the intel-
lectual attractions, the affectional at-
tractions, and the réwards. of service.

The opportunities for intellectual de-|
velopment of ministers and lawyers were
compared, In the ministry, by constant
application and concentration of thought
on the greatest truths of the universe, |
the mind reaches its highest stage of
devolopment.

The affection of others goes to the
ntinister perhaps more than to any other
person. The minister is considered a
true friend at baptism, marriage, death,
and in fact every stage of life.

In considering the rewards of service
|the speaker showed that the rewards of
|service as a minister excel those of any
lother vocation, By relating several per-
}scnal experiences it was shown that the
|iministry offers varied experiences of
levery kind. The minister, with high
idealism shining in his eyes and throb-
bing in his heart is the greatest uplifter
of humanity.

The theory that there are no laughs in
the ministry was completely exploded,
for the person who can really enjoy life
the most is the one who has an intense
purpose and is doing his duty to God.

Dr. Vander Meulen’s addresses were
a!l well colored with a keen sense of hu-
mor. By bringing in his clever little
“Side-lights” in the right proportion he
made his talks not only appealing and
effective but also attractive and ex-
tremely interesting. His capability in
dealing with the problem of life work
will make his influence at Davidson long
felt.

The hearty co-operation of practiaclly
every student and professor was shown.
A new high water mark was reached in
attendance at these services.

The Personal Interviews.

In his personal conferences, Dr, Van-
der Meulen drove home with the same
torcefulness and clarity which char-
acterized his public addresses, the ever-
lasting truths of consecration and serv-
ice regardless of vocation. By far the
greater portion of his stay here was
spent in unselfish and whole-hearted in-
terviews with men.

Beginning with the afternoon of his
arrival and continuing until half an hour
before his train was scheduled to leave,
Dr. Vander Meulen held more than one
hundred and fifteen personal confer-
ences, lasting from ten minutes to
an hour. Of the men who sought guid-
ance in choosing their vocation, 47 were
Seniors, 31 were Juniors, 13 were Sopho-
mores and 17 were Freshmen.

The time Dr. Vander Meulen unselfish-
ly gave to this work was in excess of 30
hours, or more than six times the hours
spent in public addresses. However, we
are certain that in these long hours of
personal, face-to-face, contact, many
men caught his spirit and found help and
inspiration that will abide with them long
after they have forgotten the subjects
of his addresses.

|

D
FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE

That’s what almost everybody does.
Very few of us do things which are
purely original. Some few have the
ability to start new things. The rest
of us must watch those few and ‘pick
out the good things they do and do them.

We are all creatures of suggestion,
and as such we can only decide what
suggestion we will accept and use. When
we see our neighbor study we may
study too. When we see him loaf we
are most sure to loaf with him.

The other day I went to Charlotte
with a friend who bought a suit of
clothes. I didn’t really need one but if
I had had the money I would have fol-
lowed his example.: When the other
fellow dresses up we want to dress up
too. i

Ed. Mellon’s are dressing up for us
this spring. They are putting in new
furniture and fixtures and are painting
up inside and out. Let us show that we
appreciate this example and dress up
too, When you go to Charlotte, go to
Mellons first. You probably won’t go
anywhere else. If you do you will go

EXCHENGE
amy

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

New York University has raised its
standards of admission so that the stu-

| dents who enter in the fall of 1924 must

have at least one year of college work
or its equivalent. In the fall of 1926 two
years of college work will be required.

According to the “Technique” Geor-
gia Tech has declared war on gambling
cn athletic contests The statement was
issued by Georgia Tech athletic authori-
ties and Coach Alexander.

The Chinese students of the various
institutions of learning in this country,
in connection with the Disarmament
Conference, have formed an alliance for
the purpose of advocating China’s cause.
A-weekly paper entitled the China Ad-
vocate is, being published by this or-
ganization, the purpose of which is to
put before the people true facts in re-
gard to the Far East.

D.

MEN DIFFER.

A fond father
Approached the president
Of a certain college,
And said,
“Your course of study
Is entirely too hard
For my Archibald,
And it takes too long,
So I want to know
If you can’t
Arrange it so
That he can take
A shorter, quicker course.”
The president replied,
“Why, certainly!
It all depends upon
What you wish
To make of him.
When God
Wants to make an oak
He takes a hundred years,
But he takes
Only two weeks
To make a squash.
Good day!”
D

The old man was sending his son to
college and it was a sad parting. “Boy,”
said the father, as he dried his tears on
his suspender buckles, “always spit on
the dice before you set them and when
you start to draw to an inside straight,
remember the mortgage on the farm,”

D
The Mercer Cluster.

Mississippi, Howard, Emory, and Fur-
man will be Mercer’s opponents in In-
ter-collegiate Debating this year. ;

The Emory Wheel.
Trinity, Millsaps, Mississippi U., Mer-
cer, and Rollins College are on Emory’s
Debating program.

D.
BOTHERATION.

The’ moon above,
Two hearts in love.
Adoration.

A whispered “Please!”
A gentle squeeze.
Approbation.

Sweet lifted lips,
Moments of bliss.
Osculation.

A footstep near
“Don’t hold me, Dear.”
Deviation,

Her Hila, then

Boot number ten.
D—nation.

D—

A word to the wise—
Princeton University students took an
active part in the New York City may-
oralty campaign just closed. Under the
auspices of the Princeton Speakers As-
sociation four speakers were sent to
New York City each day to speak for
coalition ¢andidates.
' 1 Wnobaes

—Zip.

Know Yourself and Your Work.
