THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

CARLISLE MOORE, ’15,
MARRIES MISS LAFAR

And once again, fate’s awful hand,
Has turned the tables on a man.

This time it-was_in the case of Mr, Car-
lisle Clark Moore, '15, of McConnellsville.
He has succumbed to the wiles of a charm-
ing young blonde, Miss Margaret Louise
LaFar, and from a journalistic reports, we
place not one particle of blame upon the said
Mr. Moore for his actions, Rather we offer
him the hearty congratulations of Davidson
faculty, students and alumni.

Upon his graduation from this college, the
gentleman left many marks of his activities
here. Always in the midst of campus activi-
ties, exhibiting an ever-present supply of
“pep” and as a member of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity, his name will remain on college
records many years. At the entrance of the
United States into the World War, he vol-
unteered for service, was accepted, and
served two years overseas. Returning to
the States he was attracted by the cotton
business, which was growing at that time,
and as a planter and broker he has attained
creditable success in that business.

And while our prophecy was mere witti-
cism, yet we do wish that fate might please
us all by a festive table where we might
offer-a toast to the glorious future of Mr.
and Mrs. Moore.

Former Davidson Man Leads
Kentucky Campaign ©

Doctor Gillespie, ’04, is the head of a com-
mission to raise a million dollars for educa-
tional work at Centre College, the Louis-
ville Seminary and other similar institutions.
The undertaking is ‘especially interesting be-
cause it is the first in which the Northern
and Southern branches have co-operated

* since their division in 1860. South Caro-
linians and Davidson men watch the pfog-
ress of the task with special interest, since
it is under the direction of a commission,
the chairman of which‘is the Rev. R. T. Gil-
lespie, D. D., ‘pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Louisville. Doctor Gilles-
pie graduated from Davidson and then Co-
lumbia Seminary and before going to Ken-
tucky was pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church ot Florence, S. C.

HERE AND THERE

Rev. M. R. Long, ex-’10, who recently re-
signed his marked successful work in art to
enter the ministry, has been called to the
pastorate of the Front Street Church in
Statesville.

John J, Adams, ’01, is a banker at Lau-
rens, S. C.

Rev. W. B. Jennings, D. D., ’80, is pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church at Ger-
mantown, Penn., his~ address being 6012
Green street.

Frank K. Spratt, ’04, is a wholesale gro-
cer at Greenville, S. C.

W. A. Withers, ’83, is professor of chem-
istry and vice-president of State College at
Raleigh, N. C.

T. B. Fraiser, ’81, of Sumter, S. C., is
associate justice of the Supreme Court of
South Carolina.

T. B. Finley, ’85, is judge of the 17th dis-
trict, Supreme Court, North Carolina, Judge
Finley’s home being at North Wilkesboro.

T. R. McNeil, ’16, a chemist, is located at
1015 Walnut avenue, Niagara Falls, New
York.

At the Princeton-Yale football game on
Saturday, November 18th, the, following
Davidson men held a reunion: W. M. Cur-

Rev. J. G. Patton, Jr., '16, is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church at Lawrenceville, Ga.

rie, "19; E. H. Hamilton, 17; James Fowle
and W. P. Cummins, ’21; Houston White,
21; J. M. Richards, '22; George M. Rob-
son, 719, and Hadley A. Hill, ’21.

W. J.. Hamilton, ex-’13, is as his friends
here will readily realize, an active business
man in Fayetteville, Ark,

Walter H. Vinson, ’89, is legal editor of
the West Publishing Company at St. Paul,
Minn.

Rev. A. W. White, ’80, now living at
McBee, S. C., has retired from work on ac-
count of ill health, after 37 years of active
service in the ministry.

Rev. W. R. Minter, D. D., '92, is pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church at Austin,
Texas.

Rev. and Mrs. Robert Murphy Williams
announce the marriage of their daughter,
Lewellyn, to Dr. John Daniel Rodinson, '08,
on the evening of December 14th, at the
Church of the Covenant, Greensboro, N. C.

Mrs. Shephard Nash» announced the mar-
riage of her daughter, Ann Maria, to Dr.
James Ralph Dunn, ’15, on Wednesday, No-
vember 22nd, Sumter, S. C.

A. F. Fricker, '21, is located at 411 Marl-
borough, Boston, Mass.

Coit M. Robinson is located at Lowell,
N.C.

Jim Pleasants, ex-’25, is attending Stetson
University in Florida.

F, J. Wright is at the University of Penn-
sylvania this year.

P. .H. McAlpine, ’22, has a position as
teacher in the schools of Senora, N. C.

N. B. Pearah, ’21, who will be remembered
at Davidson as N. B. Baba, is now attending
Yale.

E. M. Alexander is a progressive cotton
broker of Belzoni, Miss.

C. C, Garrett, '24, is taking a course at
Clemson this fall.

W. J. Lake has also made marked success
in the cotton business at Laurens, S. C.

W. D. Lawson has a splendid position in
Greenwood, Miss.

W. C. Hale, ex-’25, is taking a business
course in Knoxville, Tenn,

S. A. Wooten, '22, has taken up his resi-
dence in Ravensford, Va.

_C. E. Hughes, ’22, is teaching in Fountain
Inn, S. C.

Joe Rice, ex-'25, is among the students
taking engineering at Cornell, this year.

W. C. Crane, ’22, and Mrs, Crane are
taking courses at Union Seminary.

Dr. W. L. Howell, who attended David-
son as a medical student, is practicing medi-
cine at Ellerbe, N. C.

Rev. William C. Rourke, ’16, is pastor of
the Ellerbe Springs (N. C.) Presbyterian
Church.

H, H. Caldwell, '03, who is registrar at
Georgia Tech, informs his friends of the

[birth of a son, H.H., Jr.”

J.D. Prothro, ex-’25, is attending Georgia
Tech this year.

Rev. H. W. DuBose, D. D., of Louisburg,
Va., has signified his acceptance of a call
to the First Presbyterian Church, jof Spar-
tanburg,.S. C.

Mr. Voorhees Garth, a cotton broker, of
Charlotte, was on the campus this week.

I a

Rev. Alden S$. Anderson has _ recently
taken charge of the church at Badin, N. C.

John Gaston, '21, is teaching English and
Civics in Cramerton, N. C., this year.

D.

Davidson is perhaps as well represented at
the University of North Carolina this year
as has ever been the case. Davidson men,
almost all of them graduates of the old col-
lege, are endeavoring to uphold her name
and prestige at Chapel Hill in at least three
departments of the University. Harry Sam-
ple, '21, and Paul Jamison, '22, are studying
law, while Joe Story, ’21, “Sec” Lacy, '22,
and Elrod Boney, ’20, are among the 40 men
accepted for the first year medicine class,
Davidson has been so long and so well rep-
resented in this department that a specific
corner in the lecture room has been named
by one professor “the Davidson corner.” It
is rumored that Joe Story is showing the
way in this class to not a few of Carolina's
awn sons, C. K, Brown, ’21, is taking grad-
uate work in economies, in which depart-
ment he is a teaching fellow.

D
FINALS IN TENNIS
TOURNAMENT PLAYED

At last! ‘The finals in the tennis tourna-
ment have been played. Harry Price stands
out as winner of the challenge round tour-
nament. ‘The semi-finals were played Fri-
day, the 24th, resulting in the elimination
of Bill Murray by the scores of 6-4, 7-9,
6-4, 6-3.

The match abounded in thrills, and many
beautiful plays were made. Price led off
with the first set, but the second went to
Murray after a gruelling contest. Harry
came back strong in the next two sets, win-
ning easily. Price resorted to his usual
back court game; winning most of his points
on sideline placements.. Murray had a ten-
dency to ‘rush the net in the first two-sets,
but abandoned this policy in the last two in
order to combat Price's brand of tennis.
Murray has a better serve than Price, but
otherwise he was excelled in the points of
the game.

The four men winning out in the semi-
finals were. Price, Murray, Fraser and Mor-
ris, These, together with Bradley, last
year’s champion, will participate in a tourna-
ment in the spring to decide which four
will compose Davidson's team. At the same
time another tournament will be in progress
and any member of the second group is
privileged to challenge the fifth man of the
first group. Should the challenger defeat
the fifth man he will meet the fourth, and
so one until defeated. The tournament just
completed does not decide who will be mem-
bers of the team, but this will be decided
when ‘the spring tournaments are completed.

Davidson lost three men of her last year’s
tennis team, but this will not materially af-
fect Davidson’s chances of a state cham-
pionship team. ‘The material this year is ex-
ceptionally | good, and chances _ for first
honors are bright.

Davidson is extremely honored in having
Hugh Bradley as president of the North
Carolina Tennis Association. He announces
that the State meet would probably be held
at Durham, though the date has not been
set.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

& r | =x
If You Have Money, We |
Want It. ;
If You Need Money, We
Have It:
W. Z. BRADFORD Morris Plan Bank
Ms INST -S: “EM, ~&.
G 27 R LE Wrnston-SALEM, N, C.
8! Decoc= 000000

Ic || 8

2

Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance, we write
these lines and they cost money which is supplied through your bank
account,

Pid you ever think about making that account with which you pay all
bills, secure against FORGERY?

McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

LY CN YY YN YY DC
rn

Best baking results can only be obtained from the best
flour. NOSOCA: (Plain) and IREDELL (Self-Rising)

are supreme in quality, uniformly perfect the year round.

Sold in Davidson by Knox & Barnette Company

STATESVILLE FLOUR MILLS COMPANY

STATESVILLE, N. C.

|
:
|
:
:

_————————— ——————————————————— eee
ie pre Gee

What Are Your Banking Needs?

Do you need investment advice?

Are you interested to learn how we can serve you and
your family in matters of trust?

Would you like to open a savings or.a checking ac-
count ?

Are you thinking of insurance?

The Wachovia, Its Staff, and Its Officers
Are at Your Service.

The
WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.

NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh

Winston-Salem

Salisb
Asheville wh Point

High Point

i z
| SE ee ae ee oe PCE)
SSE

,

Courteous Regards
For

the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

On the Square CHARLOTTE, N. C.

