4 . :

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
J. M. RICHARDS...-..-.-.--- Editor-in-Chief J. P. PRICE
. A. GAMBLE, JR...-..---Managing Editor J. S. CURRY -.Camp edi
Ne it STH OO TY Mangini! Editor j: C, BAILEY, JR.--------- Y. MC. A. ead
k. F, DAVIDSON....._..-Assignment Editor - SPRUNT -Soci ites |
ity (ay Cire ang ae
. C. SUMME --AjJumni itor |
dae J. H. McKEITHEN.
REPORTERS’ CLUB
¥ u h FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G, W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, Wi. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H. 0
BROWN, C. V. HES , W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Scc.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. JONES. J. SMITH, R. HL.
CALHOUN, M, P, ONES, it, RK: TULLER, C.D.
COX, W. M. KNOX, W. 1. WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L, D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. ©.
ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C, F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

Tit GraWw OOlisssssseeteusecse Business Manager
L, A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Sesbuaee i ti M r Assi in Circulati Depar :
Ie ROSE and Cb TLE S.C. FAIN P, C, HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R, L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL *

Help the Greater Davidson Club to the achievement of its purpose,
A Better Davidson than ever next year.
D
With the temporary physics laboratory nearing completion and the
contract for our new dormitory already let, building operations are on a
decided boom at Davidson.

D
It is seldom that the student body has the privilege of hearing two
such lecturers as Doctor Mitchell and Doctor Whaling within two days,
‘and the addresses of both speakers were greatly enjoyed.

RALPH LANCASTER. od

Death is always a mysterious and fearsome thing to the human
mind, and from the time when that grim reaper first began his
depredations among the children of men until the present day, his
passing has never failed to leave sorrow and desolation in its wake,
Rich and poor, young and old, weak and strong, are all alike subject
to his attack, and there is no immunity from his ravages. All must
suffer alike,-and there is no home‘or community but has felt the
presence of this awful intruder. This week it has fallen to the lot
of Davidson College to be visited, and the blow that has descended
upon us is indeed a heavy one. ‘

The dread destroyer is never more terrible than when he strikes
down a young man, just ready to enter upon his life work, with all
the hopes and aspirations of youth still strong within him. Such a
one was Ralph Lancaster. Quiet and unassyming, yet friendly in
his attitude toward all, he went his way upon the campus molesting
no one. His readiness to lend a helping hand to those who needed
it was one of his most marked characteristics, and he was held in
the highest regard by those who had come to know him during his
short stay on the campus. To know this man, who in the words of
one of the Seniors might have been taken as a model Freshman, was
to like him, and the news of his death from heart failure on last Fri-
day night came as a severe shock not only to his intimate associates
but to the entire student body.. Seldom has the Davidson campus
been so saddened as by this loss of one of her choice young men.

Our deepest sympathy goes out to the family of the young man
in their sorrow and bereavement, and we'share in their grief, No
words can serve to lessen our common loss, and we can only take
comfort with them in the belief that Ralph is now safe with the
Saviour whom he had confessed,

A COWARDLY ACTION.

Davidson College has always been’ proud of the splendid young men
who make up her student bodies, and of the hig standards of conduct
which they have striven to maintain, and perhaps she is justly so today.
Certainly she has much of which to be proud. Occasionally, however,
something occurs which makes us wonder whether after all she has not
equally as much of which she should be ashamed.

Such an incident was the one which occurred in chapel last Saturday
morning. A few of the students have long been in the custom of scrap-
ing their feet when a rather long on unpleasant notice was given from
the platform. On this occasion, however, the scraping was so general
that the speaker actually could not be heard by the majority of the stu-
dents who were trying to pay attention.

Such conduct is in no way in accord with the spirit of Davidson
traditions and students. It is not only ungentlemanly and unsportsman-
like, but in the last analysis is absolutely cowardly. How many of the
men who scrape so loudly in chapel would do so if the professor whom
they annoy could see them? It is a safe guess that thefe are very few,
if any, who would be guilty of the action if they knew that even their
fellow students could see them. It is like nothing so much as striking a
man who cannot defend himself. If the men in question would only give
a little consideration to thesé facts we believe that this annoying practice

would-be discontinued. There can be no doubt but that this is the wish
of most of the student body.

| DR. THORNTON WHALING |

(Continued from page 1) |
jremembered Davidson well, Wilson said, |
“There is nothing I remember better—|
the students, the professors, the share
and the life there.” He also humorously |
remarked that he remembered chapel as |
being held seemingly about 4 a.m. |

He was next at Princeton as a student
for three years under the presidency of |
that grand old Scotch divine, Dr. James |
McCosh,

“Princeton,” stated Dr. Whaling, “is
Davidson enlarged, enriched, but with the
same philosophical, political, religious and
theological horizon. This is the place to
say that Scotch theology and life do not
have that narrow and illiberal puritani-
cal excommunication of all good worldly |
things which marked the extreme type
of iconoclastic British Puritanism.”

Wilson studied law for two years at
|that famous seat of culture and catholic-
jity, the University of Virginia, after

| which followed several years of speciali-
|zation in the study of the philosophy of
|society and the State at Johns Hopkins. |

But his character had received its set;
his intellectual and cultural tastes had
‘been fixed when he went to those ree
nowned schools at Charlottesville

and
Raltimore; and there is a singular and)
inner affinity between the heredity which |
on so many occasions he has gratefully |

/exact trouble.

Dots and Dashes

PRESIDENT MARTIN SPRAINS
BACK WHILE EXERCISING

Dr. W. J. Martin has been suifering |

very severely from an injury he sustain-
ed to his back about four weeks ago.
While taking setting-up exercises, he
tore loose a ligament in his back. The

injury became worse, so much so that

now Doctor Martin has been compelled
to remain in bed for over a week. He
has recently had his back X-rayed but it
scems that the X-ray does not show the

care of Doctor Brenizer, from Charlotte,
and Doctor Stokes, from Salisbury
The entire student body hopes that
Doctor Martin’s injury will not prove
scrious and that he will soon be with
them again.
D.
“500 Again—Quality First!”
D

DR. SENTELLE SUFFERS
FROM CASE OF LAGRIPPE

Doctor Sentelle was unable to meet
his classes last week on account of an
attack of Lagrippe. Last Tuesday morn-
ing he was seized by a spell of nausea,
and Doctor McConnell was immicdiately
summoned, He discovered that the 1!-

He has been under thei

acknowledged, and his training and edu-| ness was not of a serious nature, but
cation which in so many respects was}|ordered Doctor Sentelle to refrain from
almost identical with that which his | teaching the rest of the week and con-
forefathers received at St. Andrews or| fined him to his room Wednesday and

‘Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

MY AUTO ‘TIS OF THEE,

My auto ’tis of thee, short road to pov-
erty, of thee I chant. I blew a pile of
| dough on you three years ago; now you
refuse to go! or won’t or can’t. Through
town and country side you were my joy
and pride, ah happy day. I love-l the
gaudy hue, the nice white tires new, but
you’re down and out for true, in every
way. To thee, old rattlebox, came many
bumps and knocks; for thee I grieve.
Badly thy top is torn, frayed are thy
scats and worn; the whooping cough
|affects thy horn, I do believe. Thy per-
fume swells the breeze, while good folk
choke and wheeze as we pass by. I
paid for thee a price ’twould buy a man-
jsion twice; now everybody's yelling
“ice.” I wonder why? The motor has
the grip, thy spark plug has the pip, and
woe is thine. I, too, have suffered chills,
fatigue, and kindred ills, endeavoring to
pay my bills, since thou wert.mine. Gone
is my bank roll now, no more 'twould
choke the cow, as once before,
I had the mon, so help me, john—lI'd

Yet, if

; buy a car again and speed some more.—

Exchange.
D

| work, and the one which has made the

Glasgow or Edinburgh. Davidson and}
Princeton modelled after St. An-
drews, the oldest of the Scotch universi-
ties, and hence it is easily sscen that
Woodrow Wilson’s heredity and educa-
tion were not antagonistic, but co-part- |
ners well-mated and lovingly matched.

After finishing his education he prac-
ticed law for one year in partnership
with Edward T. Rennick, in Atlanta.
Upon finding the profession of law dis-
tasteful, he made his debut as a teacher,
passing in succession from Brwyn Mawr
to Wesleyan University and thence to
Princeton, where he remained for 20
years, the last eight in the capacity of
president.

During his term as president of Prince-
ton he was responsible for many im-
provements, but probably his greatest

are

most lasting impression on the environ-
ment and life of the students, was the
manner in which he broke down the
aristocratic spirit which dominated the
Princeton campus.

After he left Princeton he was elected
Governor of New Jersey and soon there-
after President of the United States.

Mr. Wilson is a very religious man and
during his administration he adhered to
three main beliefs: First, that God ad-
ministers to the world according to His
divine program; second, that he was
prepared for his office by God; and third,
that the doctrine of Jesus Christ should
be his “pole star” in thinking.

During the past two years he has kept
absolutely silent, standing steadfastly by
his principles, waiting for “the coming
of dawn.” His heart and mind are
solidly back of his policies, and, the
speaker said, he has never been a sub-
limer figure than during these years of
waiting, during these years of self-sacri-
fice and complete self-surrender. In the
years to come the world as a whole will
finally Fecognize him as having embodied
the highest policy ever maintained, that
of mobilizing the moral forces of’ the
world for the government of the’ world.

The world is either better or
worse each day as a result of your
work and influence.

If the world is benefited by the
service you render, you are bound
to be—there is no power that can
rob you of the good which comes
from the gootd you do—likewise,
none that can protect you from the
‘harm which comes from the harm
you do.

The world—your world—is not
measured by the reach of your arm
nor the horizon of your viston, but
by the never-ceasing influence of
your thoughts and acts.

These are always making ripples

_ on the surface of time, and those
ripples are eternally spreading be-
yond your most distant expecta-

. tions —Selected.

Thursday. . Since Thursday he has been
steadily gaining strength and is
has a health record

Until the recent ill-
ness he had not missed a class ‘on ac-
count of illness for some years.

D.
RALPH E. LANCASTER

Doctor Sentelle
which few surpass.

(Continued from page 1)

When they returned to Davidson about
12 o'clock, Lancaster did not feel well,
so he went to the college physician, Dr.
J. M. MacConnell, who examined him
and sent him to the infirmary. The boy
did not wish to go, for he seemed to
think nothing of the matter, as he had
had one or two attacks before.
doctor sent him on anyway. In less than
ten minutes after he had been put to
bed at the infirmary he had another at-
tack and died.

The report of his death was started
before breakfast and had spreal over
the whole student body by the time
breakfast was over. The news was all
too well confirmed at chapel, before any
announcement had been made, by Dr.
Harding’s prayer.

At the meeting of the student body
after chapel it was voted that a wreath
be sent and that the president write a
note to Ralph’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
D. R. Lancaster, of Winston-Salem, as a
feeble expression. of sorrow and sym-
pathy.

While affairs here appeared to run
their normal course, there was an under- |
current of serious and sad _ reflection.|
This was especially evident at the ea
morial service held Sunday night at the|
“Y” meeting. The crowd sat in deep |
silence while W. M. McLeod read a few,
verses of Seripture and told in simple, |
touching words of Ralph Lancaster's life!

*

now |
back in his normal condition of health.

But the;

As the parson launched into his
fourthly without closing the Bible on the
pulpit before him, thus indicating that
jthe end of his sermon was not in sigh‘,
a stranger, who had slipped into a back
pew shortly before, began to show signs
of restlessness. When the fifthly was
announced he leaned forward and whis-
| pered earnestly to a gray-haired lady in
| the pew ahead of him, “Pardon me,

‘madam, but how long has he been
| preaching?”
|

“I can’t exactly say,” she replied;

| “thirty or forty years, I think,”

| The stranger heaved a sigh, “All
| right, then, I'll stay; he must be nearly
| done.”—Orange and Blue.

| D.
OLD STORY.

Close he held her in the dark,
Neath the-trees that shade the park.
“Now you're all'mine,” with a sigh,
Said the spider to the fly.”
D.

One may easily decide what politicar
party prevails in the U. N. C. by redding
the letter of birthday wishes sent to ex-
President Woodrow Wilson. You may
be interested to know that John Purser

| was one of the committee of six, who

; Sent this earnest tribute of love and ap-
|preciation from the Dialectic Literary
| Society. The society received a reply
| from Wilson to their message, express-

ing warm appreciation of the cheer it
; gave him.

D

A contract has just been elosed with
Virginia Polytechnic Institute by the
University. of Pittsburgh for a dual track
ineet at Blacksburg, Va., Thursday, April
13th. The Panthers also have a dual
meet with the U. S. Naval Academy at

| Annapolis, Saturday, April 1sth—vVa.
among us. | Tech. r
D. | D
WILDCAT FIVE DEFEATS | ELECTRIC WOMAN.

(Continued from page 1) |
was raising his gun a Davidson man anal
feund holding. Captain Park of State)
shot the foul and an extra period was’
necessary.

In the appendix both teams fought |
hard but the guarding was so close that |
neither was able to score from the floor.
Captain Crawford, however, made one of
his tries from the 15-foot line good while
Park was unsuccessful in his two tries
and the game was history.

Summary:

Davidson (23) Position N.C. State (22)
Mallory (4) RAS222 ss Johnson (2)

Beall (4)----.---____ ) 6 Zaps Long (0)
Mauze (6)_---_____- C_....--.Groome (2)
Crawford (7) C --RG_-----_Park (14) C

Homewood (4)

Substitutes: Keeper for Long; Price
for Mallory.

Fouls: Mauze o out of 3; Crawford 3
out of 4; Park 6 out of 10.

Referee: George (Va.)

Timekeeper: Gray.

When she talks too long—interrupter.

If her way of ‘thinking is not yours—
converter,

If she is willing to come half way—
meter.

Jf she wants to go farthur—conductor.

If she wants to~ go still farther—dis-

patcher.
If she wants to be an angel—trans-
former. ‘
When she is sulky and will not speak—
exciter,

If she gets too excited—controller.
If she proves your fears are vrong—
compensator.

If she goes up in the air—condenser.

If she wants chocolates—feeder.

Tf she sings false—tuner.

If she is in the country—telegrapher.
—Exchange.

D. :

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with
Miss Ellenwood next Friday night. -Doc-
tor Shewmake will give a lecture on
“Dante.” f

