4

*

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

wa
EXCHANGE

COLUMN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

(oh

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............Editor-in-Chiel H. H. SMITH................Forum itor
i NS. .. First M it R. C. AIKEN. +...Campus Editor
Ri HESTON... Sccund Managing Editor.» B. i OGDEN, ¥. M'COA. Editor
R. R. JONES. Assi itor W. TT. E ir
EH Sie
A Ww. 5 sevecceceeecees «Exchange Editor
PRESS BUREAU

W. Z. BRADFORD..................Manager W. F. GALLOWAY.......Assistant Manager

Assistants
BARRINGTON, Mt Cc.
CLAUDE

MITH, C, F. MINTER, J. A,
PPLERY, J. M. McINTOSH, RATCHFORD, B. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

byob COOPER............ Business Manager

R. ay eR CEt H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE...
JAMES Mc! CHEN........ -Office Assistant E. J. ROSCH

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCCAIN........Circulation Manager S. C. FAIN......

Advertising Solicitors
Advertising Copy

.».-Asst. Circulation Mgr.

Assistants
R. B. LILES E. C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON
REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres. GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, H. B.

SMITH, 'R. H., ‘Vice-Pres. TARE Lda Je SHAREE, W. H.

BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. McILWAINE, C. M. WALTHALL, D. B
ALLISON, 0.'J. McIVER, D. D. WHARTON, D. B,
CALHOUN, M. P, MAUZE, GW. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R. MOFFETT, A._N. WILLIAMS, J. M.

EWELL, ED. MOORE, W. H.

Due to the activity of an enterprising person among us, we saw quite a
lot of the Queens’ girls on our two trips to Charlotte last week. Having the
Juniors and Seniors at our dinner on Friday added to the occasion immensely.
The song they sang made a big hit, too. At the game it was unfortunate that
their section was not saved in advance, but when all the Queens girls arrived,
they certainly made us feel like rooting harder. ‘The fact that they were root-
ing for us was indeed a compliment. We all hope that the pleasant occasion
may be soon repeated !

: D

MANY KINDNESSES TO US

HE Charlotte Chamber of Commerce has treated us royally this fall. In

addition to the fine banquet that we had given us there on Davidson
Day, two meals were served last Friday to the hundred canvassers who went
down to help raise the Charlotte campaign quota. ‘The breakfast that we had
was the best that could be desired on such an occasion, both in quality and
quantity. Every man there was glad he had gone down on the early train and
gotten his meal in Charlotte. :

Enough cannot be said about the dinner that was given us after we had
been out.campaigning all morning. All came in tired, and some a little dis-
couraged, -but that dinner which was set before us was in itself enough to
revive anyone’s spirits. When the guests who were there from Queens, and
the splendid songs by Mr. Bishop, are considered, it is easily seen that the
hour and a half there was the most pleasant spent by the Davidson canvassers.

D.
UNION SEMINARY VISITORS

S INCE almost half of the student body at Union Seminary is made up of
men from Davidson, and since so many of last year’s class went to
Union, there is naturally a kindred feeling between us. Whenever any of the
Seminary men are able to be on the Hill, we are more than glad to see them.

! When, however, we have some of her men to make talks to our college organi-
zations, it is a distinct pleasure and privilege. Such was the case last Saturday,
when-four-of the most prominent men ofthe Seminary were with us.

The Y. M. C. A. service that these men conducted was one of the best
that we have had. Men who-have fecently graduated from school always have
a better understanding of.and closer insight into our problems, and so can talk
to us in a way that older men cannot. Particularly inspiring too, is the exam-
ple of these Seminary men; the fact that they are giving their lives to Christ
means a great deal toward helping us do what we feel called upon to do. ‘The
visit these four men made to Davidson, we know, will be of lasting benefit.

D.

CAMPAIGNING IN CHARLOTTE
AST week, a hundred of the Davidson student body had an experience
that was unique to the great majority, if not all, of them. Having been
prepared in advance by several talks, so that each felt that he could convince
even the most hard-hearted that he should subscribe, to the fund being raised
to replace Chambers building, these hundred men went down to Charlotte. By
lot every pair of men had been given a district in which they were to canvass
all the people who worked there. ‘Two hundred dollars was the goal that each
team lightly aspired to. “i
When the campaigning was started at 9 o’clock that morning, after a
parade over the principal streets-of the city, headed by two mounted police
and one band, every one was determined to work unceasingly for the success
of our undertaking. Until 1 o’clock the business people of Charlotte were
' besieged in a most energetic way. But the hoped-for results were very slow’)
coming. After the hardest morning’s work that most of the canvassers had
one.in many a day, the totals at dinner showed that we had raised about
. During the evening the amount was increased. While we all “hoped
e money the experience of arguing and working for Davidson gave
earer insight into her needs and a greater desire to help fill them.

L

“Well of all the nerve,” she said slapping
his face when he kissed her.

“Well then,” he pouted, “if that’s the way
you feel about it, get off my lap.”—Selected.

| €

He—Please, just one little kiss.

She—No; if I give you one you'll want
more.

He—No, I want.

She—Then you don’t deserve one.—Bear

") Cat.

a

If you fool with a fool be sure you have
a fool to fool with—The Owl.

Be it ever so homely, there’s no face like
your own.—The X-Ray.

A wise man never blows his knows.—

The Flash Light.

Mother's Voice—Are you entertaining
“Cy 2”

Daughter’s—No, we're just talking. —The
Sagebrush. 6

My girl is so ignorant she thinks that a
football coach has four wheels—Ex.

Sixteen men on a full-back’s chest, Yo,
Hlo—and a bottle of iodine —Ex.

He—Dearest, you must marry me.

She—But have you seen my father?

Hle—Many times, but I love you in spite
of it.—Spectator.

Love and porous plaster, son,

Are very much alike;

It’s simple getting into one,

But getting out—good night—Crimson
White.

At last the impossible has been achieved.
A Southern team defeated an Eastern team
on an Eastern field. To Alabama goes this
distinction. Last Saturday they traveled to
Philadelphia to mect the University of Penn-
sylvania and though doped to lose by over
50 points to the conquerers of the Navy, they
defeated them, 9 to 7. Some mixup was the
result. ‘Tech beat ‘Bama, Bama beat Penn,
Penn heat the Navy and the Navy beat Tech.
Our hats go off to you, Alabama! We
knew that your great fighting spirit would
win out and uphold the honor of the South-
land.—The Technique.

She—I notice by this article that men grow
bald because of intense activity of the brain,

 He—Yes and I notice that women don’t

grow whiskers because of intense activity of
the chin.—Ex,

I used to think T knew I knew,
But now | must confess

The more | know I know I know

I know I know the less.

There’s the man I’m laying, for said the
hen, as the farmer entered the barn.—The
Musketeer.

The other day I went into
A fortune telling place,

A pretty girl’ she read my mind
And then she slapped my face.

“Twas the night before payday, and all
through my jeans, T hunted in vain for the
price of some beans. Not a quarter was
stirring, not even a jit; the kale was off
duty, milled edges had quit. Forward, turn
forward, O Time, in thy flight—make it to-
morrow just for tonight!”

He—Was it you I kissed in the library last
hight? =

She—About what time ?—Mugwump.

T).
STUDENTS AID IN DAVIDSON
(Continued from Page 1)

man twice, and by the time things were well
started, so expert were all of them in re-
butting argument that it took mighty good
proof of former subscriptions, etc., or else a
man, with a naturally inventive mind to get
by without subscribing. Those working in
the residence district, however, sometimes
bucked up against a cold stare from the lady
of the house, or the absence of those mo-
mentarily away from the house. In such
cases, as was natural, the most orderly re-
treat possible was e: ted. In most cases
though, those seen were very attentive and

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

Davidson won a one-sided but interesting
game on Sprunt Field Thursday, victimizing
the Wofford. Terriers, 62 to 0. After the
first 10 minutes there was no doubt as to the
outcome of the game:~’Twas only a ques-
tion of how large a score Davidson would
roll up and a question as to whether Wof-
ford would score at all. For Davidson, the
feature plays were a 35-yard run by J. Mc-
Alister, the line smashing of Burns, the work
around ends of Flowers and the Spann-King
combination for forward passes, ranging
from one to 40 yards. The kicking of Grey
was hard to beat, his kick-offs averaging 57
yards.

This week marks the time when the grave
and reverend Seniors shall march forth and
expatiate to the waiting world on the great
affairs of life. It marks the time when the
accumulation of four years of study and
meditation shall bear rich fruit in the out-
bursts of eloquences and in the flights of
oratory. Senior speaking has arrived.

The students of Davidson were delighted
to receive an invitation from the student body
of Queens College to their annual reception,
to be given Thanksgiving night.

The final game of the class basketball
series will be played this week between the
Juniors and Fresh. A hard scrap is. expect-
ed. A victory for the Juniors will give them
the championship and a clean slate.

usually favored the students with at least a
small contribution. :

Once or twice a very pugnacious attitude
was confronted, and some few used very ex-
plicit language in making it plain that their
sympathies were elsewhere than at Davidson.
In such cases, very little effort was wasted
in argument, for the mission was one of
peace. More often, the very opposite stand
was taken by those seen, some even solicit-
ing, themselves, among their acquaintances,
and making substantial contributions in that
way. As a whole, the city of Charlotte
was ready and willing to do anything sne
could. The students, when their efforts and
time were expended, were able to report that
a friendly and helpful attitude had made
things much easier for them.

At 1 o'clock the intensive campaign ended,
and from far and wide over the city the
workers gathered at the Chamber of Com-
merce hall for dinner. It was by no means
an unpopular time when that hour came,
even though some were not through can-
vassing. After the students had come in,
and the Queens girls had arrived, everyone
found his or her place at the tables, and
when grace was said, real business was be-
gun.

After the dinner, Mr. Lockhart called for
songs and yells from Davidson and follow-
ing that, some songs and a yell or so from
Queens. If Queens, individually, were to say
to Davidson the same thing that she says in
one of her yells, there would be, indeed,
great joy. When all were seated again, Mr.
Lockhart turned the affairs over to the
toastmaster, who proceeded to introduce the
speakers. Every one of them was full of
vim, and they, recalling the old days, when
many of them spent their school days at Da-
vidson, showed the absolute need for the
restoration of old Chambers, not only as a
building, but as the emblem of a progressive
Davidson. M

Doctor. McGeachy, Mr. Faison, Mr. Davis
and Mr. Moore, all old Davidson men, whose
sons and nephews are now here, or have been
here in the past year or two, showed the ofa
Davidson spirit in their every word. Doctor
Moore, especially, was sure of himself, as he
practically became a school boy again, and
spoke many a “full-humorous” word. After
many other speakers, including Doctor
Fraser, of Queens, who is always welcomed
by Davidson men, as “president of our sister
college,” Mr. Bishop, an alumnus of David-
son, who has attained fame as a vocal artist
of much ability, gave two selections. When
the speakers had finished, Mr. Lockhart
again took charge of the meeting and called
for the reports from each team. Totaling
them, it was found that between $6,000 and
$7,000 rewarded the morning’s work. ‘There
were one or two teams that could report
nothing, but all of them added, “as yet,” in-
dicating that they were not through. After
the total had been taken, a short snappy
campaign from those citizens present was
conducted by Mr.- Allison, resulting about
$3,000 in additional pledges.

D.

Kriss—She swears she’s never been kissed.
Kross—That’s enough to make anyone
eypate—Yale Record.

CAMPUSISMS

Many of the students spent ldst week-end
with their parents. Among them were R.
Falls, J. Hedrick, J. C. Leonard, A. S. Rob-
inson, N. E. Sappenfield, G. L. Uzzell, E. D.
Witherspoon, L. W. Dick, J. Earnhardt, iD;
Hanner, P. C. Henderson, W. H. Mattheson,
J. S. Moore, Z. A. and R. H. Morris, J. E.
Parker, M. R. Patrick, Waltef Scott, A. M.
Sinclair, R. L. Stowe, W. G. Thomas, W. E.
Young, J. C: McMasters and J. P. Hendrix,

It is rumored that the Freshmen are going
to stage a jubilee in celebration of the mail
box which was recently placed on the
campus. There is room for rejoicing no
doubt.

John Bryan’s dog evidently took Fresh
Murray for an escaped convict the other day.
If Murray hadn’t been such a good track
man, he might have suffered injuri¢s !

R. E. Sydenstricker, Harold Covington
and J. S. Bachman are in the infirmary,
having had their tonsils removed by Doctor
McConnell. .

George Dupuy’s latest prodigy is an edu-
cated fly. George has trained it to do a lot
of stunts, and now he is awaiting a reply to
his application for a position with Barnum
and Bailey.

In consideration of the amount of “pep”
generated by one person, it might be fitting
for Bascom) Sorrells to change his name to
Tabasco Sauce.

Bill Heston, while visiting friends in Char-
lotte last Sunday became rather flighty—at
any rate Bill took a flight in an aeroplane.
It only cost a dollar per minute, but he says
it was worth every cent of it.

Flipping cigarette butts from the balcony
during the movies seems to furnish amuse-
ment for a few. No doubt the people sitting
below would appreciate it if the smokers
would get a rattle or rubber doll with which
to amuse themselves. This stunt is liable
to cause some one to be seriously burned, and
besides it mars the floor of the gymnasium.

D
FOUR UNION SEMINARY MEN
(Continued from Page 1)
hands to us and says ‘Lovest thou Me? Feed
My sheep.’” See ‘

“Sergeant” Womeldorf was the next
speaker. He told of an experience he had
on the battlefield. When wounded and dying
men cried out, “Carry me in!”

“Christ calls to us today to carry the lost
in unto Him, to bring them to Him and re-
ceive salvation. Men, when they hear the
call, often make excuses for not going into
His service. ‘They sometimes say ‘I am not
suited for this work.’ That is the man God
wants—the man who will put himself in His
hands, and He will make him suitable for the
work.

“Another common excuse
prepared.’ Neither were the
Christ called them, but they spent time in
preparation. Give yourselves to the Master
and He will make you ready for His service. -

“If you think it is not a man’s job, think
of the Founder of the Faith. He turned the
world upside down as no man before or after
has done. Next to Him comes Paul, the
great apostle. He gave His life for you,
for me; what are we giving Him?”

Patterson spoke ‘on the subject, ‘Why I
am studying for the Ministry.” He gave
the reasons why he hesitated before going
into the ministry, and showed how he had
disposed of them.

“There is the voice of duty that came into
my life, calling me to the Master’s work.

“Again, the voice of reason came to me.
My reason was convinced, I saw that the
future world issues would be religious is-
Sues, Spiritual powers mean.the most to the
world. How could I lise to heed the
call?” :

Russell Wood, the last speaker, spoke on
ie text: “Lord, what wilt Thou have me to
do?’

He said “Every follower of Christ, when
considering his life work, his calling in life,
should say within himself; I can do some-
thing for God; what I can do, I ought to
do; what I ought to do, I will do. If you
want to know God’s will for your life, put
your life in His hands. God in your heart,
God in His word, and God in circumstances
will guide when you give Him complete
charge of your life.

“A call is a need and ability to heed the
call. The world is dying, the needs of the
world are great; the call comes to us to take
the word. ‘Go ye into all the world and
Preach the gospel to every creature. It is
a privilege and yet a great responsibility to
carry His word. Christ is counting on us;
the ministry is calling us to the. highest
duty. ‘If you love me, feed-mny Cs

is, ‘I am not
Apostles when
