THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1922.

JUNIORS STAGE GREATEST

Peanut Parcher SPEAKING OCCASION YET

(Continued from page 2)
which Doctor Lingle made a few intro-
ductory remarks and announced the
judges.

The first speaker was A. V. Gibson,
who spoke on “Secondary Education in
America.” He traced the rise of the
school system in America and showed
how Benjamin Franklin supported the
academy. :

W. P. Kimsey, in a well-rounded
speech entitled, “Mourning for Dead
Ideas,” showed how the modern person
is merely following in the footsteps of
his predecessor—walking along paths
that have already been cleared. If any
progress is to be made old ideas must be
forced into the background and a*bold
step must be taken into the open.

In a speech 'on “The Age of Interna-
tionalism,” H. H. Smith stated that na-
tions have at last begun to realize the
felly of devoting their attention to na-
‘tional superiority. A keen sense of in-
ternationalism gaining prevalence
throughout the world, It is only through
friendship and co-operation that com-
plete internationalism can be realized.

W. H. Moore, speaking upon, “A Call
to the. West,” told in an eloquent manner
how Japan ‘is calling to America for aid
in helping her to break the yoke of the
military party which is seriously hinder-
ing her development. A clear and urgent
call is being sent to the West begging
America to send men, women, and re-
sources to help Japan socially, econom-
ielly, politically, and spiritually.

W. A. Gamble presented in an instruc-
‘tive and eloquent manner the education-
al needs of America, His speech was
very appropriately entitled, “About
| Face,” because it is time for America to
take a radical step in the prevention of
itliteracy. Illiteracy statistics were given
and then Gamble proceeded to show how

Set To.
Well the fire is out and the cook’s
gone home.

The Finishing Touch.
All that P. D. needed at the carnival to
give him the finishing touches was a
chew of Brown’s Mule.

That’s Why.
It’s rumored that Enoch and his girl
quarreled. Maybe that’s the reason she
did not get up for Speaking.

The Solution.
If all the lazy men on Davidson campus
were lined up in a single line they would
stretch—

A Question of Time.
Monthly reviews are the shortest dis-
tance between two months.
The Same Boat.
Even the campus dogs enjoyed Speak-
ing.

is

Why?
It’s all over town—Confetti.

Non Plus
Every thing in the collection
Sunday was pennies.

plate

Appropo.
Wildman suited Wildman.

Help Him Out.
Cornelson is still looking for the hon-
est man. If anyone finds one please let
him know of his whereabouts.

Where Is He?

What happened to the old-fashioned |
boy that would loan you a five spot
when you were broke?

The creation of a national de-
partment of education was suggested as
perhaps the best plan to solve the prob-

uwdequate.
We Are Glad.
der the water supply lasted

peaking ul
In a well prepared speech entitled
{ As It Is. “Anglo-American Friendship,” G.  B.
COccasions may come and _ occasions Sorrells showed. how England and

may go but Junior Speaking will be
popular forever. contrast. During the World War both
the English and American soldiers Jaid
down their lives upop the altar of
Anglo-American friendship.

F, S. Johnston spoke upon “The Unflu-

I Challenge
Battling Ormond wishes to announce
through the columns of the Parcher that
he is in the market for challenges for

a bout with any man his size, weight, and, Manner he traced the rise of this in-

ence of Calvanism.” In an eloquent,

ment in competition for the orator’s
medal: W. A. Gamble, F. S. Johnston,
D. H. Ogden, and G. B. Sorrells, with W.
P. Kimsey as alternate.

Junior Class Carnival.

The carnival tendered Saturday night
by the Junior class was a complete suc-
cess, proving to be one of the most en-
joyable features of Junior week. This
was a new departure from the tried and
true custom of a formal reception and
was well received by both the students
and visitors.

Greeted at the entrace by a_ typical
carnival band, composed of Messrs.
Johnston, Hollingsworth, and Paton,
ave could not help but feel happy and
carefree. The capers of, the clowns as-
sisted further in turning the corners of
the mouth upward in laughter instead of
downward with grouchiness. The work
of these clowns, McLaren and Howell,
was equal to the stars of Ringling Broth-
ers, without a doubt.

In the first tent on the right, the Har-
mony Hounds performed in great style
on mandolin and guitar for the edifica-
tion of all, the numbers varying from
Ithe latest jazz to most difficult operas.
; This qifintet, of Phillips,
|Pernhardt, Elkins, Meyers and Ernest
ideserve.to be congratulated upon their
lexcellent performance; Mention should
jwlso be made here of the excellent, man-
jner in Which Bob McCuen acquitted him-
self as a barker. No wonder the Har-
{mony Hounds had such large audiences !
} In Dr. Duprez’s Museum, the freaks
land oddities of humanity in general
ibrought forth much mirth and laughter.
That Wildman, Luhulu®was surely wild.
[The sifecessors to the Siamese twins,
Melver Bros., Inc. astoundgd everyone
lby their striking resemblance to their
| predecessors. The fat lady and the
strong man, Trawick and Austin, surely
feame in for their share of applause.

composed

| Then across the alley Battling Bevo!
the present educational system is in-| presented in wonderful style, and didn't |

lfail to-draw the crowds to Professor
| Rathskeller's Emporium consisting of

| boxers, wrestlers, dancers, and what not,

| Leonidas and Loupolous, alias White and |
| Patterson, thrilled their audiences with

their wonderful interpretations of , the
Athenian art, while “Kid” McGovern and

America have more in common than in| “Lefty” Munroe—Young and Roberts—
| brought forth from the spectators gasps,
}of awe and admiration in their boxing |
Mile. Antoinette was there with!

|

| bouts.
herstoe dancing stunt too, It took con-
lvincing argument to the

ilookers that Boxy Bachman was not a

to prove on-

were selected to speak at commence-

color.

The Calamity.

The misfortune of the occasion was
that June Bug Price was unable to have
his Easter egg hunt as he had planned
for. The Monday rains interrupted.

Looking Forward.

Crown Prince Young’s. and Tommy
Bethea’s chariot races will be held com-
mencement. They were unable to get in
a date during Junior Speaking.

The Vogue.
Something popular this week—Sleep.

Duty.

Coach Moore was unable to take his
regular work out on the bars Saturday.
He promises to make up for his neglect
of duty this week.

Not a Sure Way.
One way to get a letter is to ask a
girl up for Speaking.

Music?
Heard on the campus during Speaking
—Discords. :

: The. Town. Clock.
John Bailey’s watch stopped Sunday
“Tight at eleven fifty, so of course he can-
not. be blamed for staying until a quar-
ter. to one. Notice-that hoarseness in

his voice on Monday?
D.

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle and Prof. F. K.
Fleagle attended the North Carolina
Modern Language Association meeting
in Greensboro last Tuesday. Professor
Fleagle gave an address in Spanish. Dr.
Lingle is vice-president of the associa-
tion, and one of its founders.

D.

Dr. J. P. Monroe, of Charlotte, attend-

ed all the baseball games on the hill last
, week, a

real sure-cnough student of Anna Pav-
fluence in American institutions. worl lowe Senor Lopez Rodrieguez, in other
|thirds of the ‘original 13 colonies were|words Bense Sloan, proved himself to be!
adherents of Calvanism and, therefore,}a real contortionist and won much ap-|
our constitution was modeled ‘after that|plause, as did also Prof. Lucius de Zert—|
{of the Presbyterian Church, In closing, | Dunbar Ogden—in his exhibition of
‘Johnston stated that America should feel acrobatic stunts.
honored to uphold the lofty ideals end Quite popular, too, were the fortune
}doctrines of Calvinism. |tellers, Princess Fatima «and Madame

J. W. Baldwin, speaking upon “A|Zera. Many mysteries were cleared |
Tribute to Her” recounted in high terms|away, and many hearts were thrilled by|
{the glories of North Carolina, rich in| promises of handsome lovers and beau-|
ther history, scenery, opportunities, and |tiful sweethearts who would make their |
\illustrious men, lappearance’ in the dim and distant |

The judges, ‘consisting of Dr. Frazer! future. |
‘Hood, chairman; Prof. J. L. Douglas, Dr.| The feature of the evening, however, |
T. W. Lingle, Dr. W. L. Porter, and Prof.| was Keith’s Hippodrome. From-~ tlie}

M. Currie, found it quite a different|opening overture by Purdy and}
proposition to select the four best men!White, to the closing number, the au-)
from the 16 who spoke. However, after} dience was highly entertained. The |
much deliberation the following men| (Continued on page 6)

ff

Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President

Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidsomhave been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of
the studeats from our controlling Synods attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's linest men have
finished their studies at this Schooi of the Ps: ophets.

Columbia Seminary invites did for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere.
Harmony and good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization.

The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida
are active and interested. We havea complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type
Student Body. — E
Fall term opens September 20, 1922.

Necessary expenses about $150.
holarships awarded to worthy students.
Send for latest catalogue.

Columbia

|

|

ARLOTTE, N. C.
NORTH CAROLINA |

R. S. GARMON & BRO. “

CONTRACTORS FOR

|
|
|

Sheet Metal Cornices, Skylights, Ventilators, Tin, Slate and
Tile Reofing

Galvanized Iron Cornices, Potts’ A. L. T. Tin Roof
Ventilator and All Galvanized Iron Work

REYNOLDS AND WHITE
A Refined Comedy and
Mu-ical Offering

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville

‘-PROGRAM

Thars. Fri., Sat., Mar. 30, 31, April 1

B.
F.

RMR MMMM HOON HII I HIT IL HILL HE MLA OL TOL OL NUT OL OL UL UE NR

The Observer Printing House

Incorporated

Printing and Engraving

Observer Building

33 SouthsChurch
Street

Fred ° Bert
MILLER & CHAPMAN
“Just a Little Different”

LINTON BROS.
Revue, The Spirit of the North

OVERTURE JACK LITTLE

PATHE NEWS AND

NOEL LESTER & CO.
HAROLD LLOYD

B Variety Surprise

fo = er | eee Sa a

Charlotte, N. C.

8 5 8 08 58 58 08 8G 50 a 8 8 08 8 08 08 08 08 08 58 50 8 Oe Oe 08 08 08 08 08 28 2 00 0 0 0 ak ae ee

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

Here-you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken din-
ner; vegetables and desserts cooked. with that delicious flavor, peculiar
to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours: Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
_ Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

B. R. Cates, ) anager

MMU

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture,

Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records ~
We send records on approval.

Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,

Mu nn

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and

Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

MRRARKNKKRKNKKRRERERKELERRERLNRE NER ERRERRPRRRRRRRERRERNs

& New Spring Clothes for College Meni

If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no
matter who made it---come here.

We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are x
better. In the cut of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat fd
the hang of the trousers, also the difference between hand tailoring and machine %
work, <

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to
select your spring clothes.

PSII III III iss jij i iii id

TATE-BROWN CO. Charlotte, N. C.

Bi ac sania are cau iiitinadinannbnnuiiuauninudcunuNidnned

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments: Sheet |
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE

Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies.
They have an appeal which you
can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
HOME-COMPANY. oem

REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE. BRANCH OFFICE Box 553 I. J. Spencer, Mgr.

A HOME BUILDER
y

