4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published “Weekly by ‘the Students of Davidson College | : : |

|

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class |

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
- 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

}and heavyset,

SAMUEL ROBERT BRADY

(Continued from page 2)

Davidson, and from the first gave good
promise of developing into a first-class fout-
ball player. Under the tutelage of Fetzer
and Crayton he became one of the most for-
midable centers in the state, his playing at
all times being marked with steady and ac-
curate passing, and with sure tackles. Low
he developed a drive that

lalways drove him into the enemy’s lines and

rarely ever did he miss a tackle. Romefelt,
Hammett, McMaster in the line, with Spana,
Jack Black and Johnston in the bckfield,

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
Pp. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. |

LISTON D. ELKINS..-----.--- Editor-in-Chief |
REGINALD L. PRICE------ Business Manager

Editorial Staff |
Cc. M. S. McILWAINE GF oes Editor

-Assistant Managing Editor a BRADFORD.
AR HAENG Managing Editor ;

Ww. Associate Editor
-Associate Editor

ihe A, LAKE.
{, B, PRICE

W._F. GALLOWAY._......--- Athletic Editor Ww. Cc -Associate Editor
J. M. SEL hy heaabars Tree Parcher Editor 0. J. ALLISO} aoe -Alumni_ Editor |

Business Staff |
P. J. STORY__.- Subscription 1. M. GARRISON. Assistant
won ney: el -Circulation Manager . S. McALPIN-- Service Manager |
My a MPSO Assistant Manager W. H. CROMWELL ---Bookkeeper
V. H. TANI Gekestuasoecauseeugeees sales Typist W. R. HOUGH..---.- pepavertisine

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN, Manager J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager
REPORTERS’ CLUB
MARSHALL, C. K. ‘ ae |

HURD, A. M., Pre MILLHOUS, J. F. . K.
WHARTON, dD. B., AY, -Pres, MILTON, W. E. ROGERS, G, D.
APPL7BY M. ONK, C, F. THOMPSON, J. B.
BOWIE, A. y. MORROW, G. M. SHAW, H. L.
GARRISON, J. M. O'CONNOR, ie P. STOREY, P, |
GIBBS. ta EOS J. WHITE, ‘H. M.
GREEN, J. L. PITTS, B. y! WILL IAMS, J. M.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H, RATCHFORD, B. U. SMITH, C. F.

EDITORIAL

COLLEGE MEN ON BROADWAY

CAST of seventy-five men and “artificial girls,” a private train of five |
cars and an orchestra of twenty musicians, will represent the Uni-
versity of Michigan Dramatic Club, the Mimes;at the Metropolitan)

Opera House, New York, December 18th.

The Mimes has gone into its dramatic program for the year with a|
rush, The production, Cotton Stockings, r¢presents a cash outlay of $75,- |
000. Lionel Ames, ’24, leading lady of the-musical extravaganza, is so
valuable in his dancing exhibitions that the Mimes has’ seen fit to insure
his legs and arms for $25,000. The book Cotton Stockings is a production |
of the Mimes. The music is original, and all the parts, great and small,
are taken by amateur undergraduates of Michigan.

The colleges are gaining recognition as leading entertainers of the}
nation. The Mimes, with its highly interesting musical nonsense, the |
Carolina Playmakers, with their original, plaintive folkplays, and other |
college organizations with original productions are worthy of the HEIN
commendation.

. Training in organizations of this type may be considered of feed
mable value. It is just as truly a part ofa college education as is the study
of the classics, or the geometric theorems. It is another step toward the
broadening of American education.

|

|
|

D
AN ADVERTISEMENT

The Glee Club will have returned, by the time the Davidsonian comes
from the press, from a trip through three of the most prosperous states
of the South. The college musicians have advertised Davidson wonder-
fully. They have done their work well, and in doing so have merited the
applause of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia.

The Glee Club will probably do more toward attracting students to
Davidson, and toward keeping the name of the Presbyterian college before
the people of the South, than any other agency in the field this year. Spe-
cial emphasis was laid at a luncheon given by the Davidson Alumni Asso-
ciation of Atlanta last week on the fact that Davidson College needs to|
shove herself more into the limelight, particularly in Georgia and Florida. |
The creditable showing made by the Glee Club during its recent tour
would indicate that no nates medium can be found than a well trained
musical club, The college authorities and the students who have backed |
the movement for a faiied club this year deserve the highest commenda- |
tion. They have done much to broadcast the name and fame of Davidson. |

D

The toast to V. M. I., appearing on the front page of the V. P. I.
paper last week, speaks well for the spirit of the Gobblers. The Techs
went down before the V. M. I. cadets in the annual football clash, but
when the smoke had cleared and the two teams had left the field, the
Gibblers colors were flying on a par with those of the Cadets. The spirit
of the losing team never fell, and the warm friendship that exists between
the two sce was not lessened by 2 jot or tittle.

V. P. 1, in her toast to V. M: I. displays the true spirit of intercol- |
legiate cae

D

The debating team that ‘will represent Davidson when the Wildcats
clash in forensic struggle with Washington and Lee Friday night in
Shearer Hall, represents every man on the Davidson campus. The least |
think that can be done for the varsity debaters is to back them with a one
hundred per cent. attendance Friday night.

Basketball will be coming to the front with the commencement of |

activities after the Christmas holidays. Again the spirit of Old Davidson
must assert itself. Every team turned out at Davidson is a Davidson
team, and every man at Davidson is a part of that team. If he is not doing
his part in uniform, his place is on the sideline and his duty is—Spirit !

entertainment committee reported that
arrangements for a feed on Saturday
night had been made. The deputation
committee announced that Hayden Holl-
-ingsworth, had. gone to. Shearer. chapel
to conduct a service there. A few songs

The expected speaker, Rev. Mr. Klontz,
of the Presbyterian Church at Cornelius,
was unable to meet with the Ministerial
Band on Sunday afternoon. The meet-

ing was short and informal. Reports

| Quips and

made a combination that had few equals for
driving power. In the historic season of
11917, when Washington and Lee was defeat-

‘ed 20-7, Sam proved himself a mainstay in
=} the line with his accurate passing ‘and good

tackling. In the defeat handed Carolina, an-
cient enemy of Davidson, his. work was
superb, notwithstanding the fact that the
team worked as a machine, well-oiled and
easy running.

The backfield men generally get most of
the credit in a game, but it is a well-known
fact and all backs themselves acknowledge
|that the game is won or lost on the line of
scrimmage. The linemen rarely ever get the
!commendation accorded the flashy backs, but
more than once Sam Brady received favor-

able notice from the press relative to his

steady and at time brilliant work. The ’20
Cranks says: “Shifted from

{guard to center to fill the vacancy left by

| Billy Crouch, he proved an able successor
jand a mainstay in the line. And always Brady
more than did his part.”

After graduation from Davidson he held

|a position for some length of time with the
| Southern Express Company, and later with

the oil mill of this place. His position with
the bank here was cut short by his untimely

{death, which happened on the 25th of June,
| from the
| dicitis.

results of an operation for appen-

WILDCAT GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1) ~
in Rome a special performance
given for the benefit of the students of
the Berry School.
given Saturday night at “Agnes Scott
College, Decatur, Ga., after which a radio
concert was given at WSB auditorium,
the Atlanta Journal building,

The Glee Club_was enthusiastically re-
ceived at every hand. In
Davidson Alumni Association
elaborate luncheon at the Hotel
in honor of the visiting musicians.

was

gave an
Ansley

Twenty-four college boys from North
Carolina came to Atlanta Saturday and

Janta music-lovers,”
stated Sunday morning, following the
Agnes Scott performance, which was
“given for the benefit of thousands of
unseen listeners.”

Gastonia, N. C., was the last stop on
the itinerary. The performance there
Monday night terminated the most suc-
cessful tour ever made by a Davidson
Glee Club. The trip from Gastonia to
Davidson was made Monday night,
automobiles.

“The success of the club is due to the
training we have received from Mrs.
Baker,” the sentiment of the entire
club. Ted Jones, president and leader,
is also accorded the warm praise of the
entire club for the interest and labor he
has contributed to make the concert tour
a success. C. V. Brown, business man-
ager, and J. H. Davis, advance manager,
ably performed the business duties con-

in

is

| nected with the trip.

The personnel of the club in full
follow:

Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, director.

W. T. Jones, president.

C. V. Brown, Jr., manager.
J. H. Davis, advance manager.
First Tenor—Watt McCain, W. A. Mc-

Cain, C. V. Brown, Jr., F. R. Hudson, B
T. Crayton.
Second Tenor—O. J. Allison, J. W.

Simpson, M. C. Davis, F. R. Montgomery,
J. S. McRae, W. H. Crane.

Bass—L. D. Elkins, G. R. Dupuy, J. L.
Green, J. R. Maxwell, T. C. Barr, B. F.
Earnest. ;

Accompanist—W. W. Purdy.

Quartet—Watt McCain, G. R.
W. Ted Jones, L. D. Elkins.

Symphony Orchestra—G. R. Dupuy, J.

Dupuy,

ton, J. H. Patton, J. S. McRae, W. H.

Crane, J. R. Earnest, W. W. Purdy, T. C.
Barr.

Earnest, W. H. Crane, B. F. Earnest.
Dixie Novelty Seven—G. R. Dupuf, J.

ton, M. C: Davis, J. R. Earmest, W. W.

from two committees were received. The and sentence prayers closed the meeting.

Purdy.

The fifth concert was | How tolsayiiheeAponistic

]
|
|
}

In_the_ fall of 1916. Sam Brady entered,

xc HPHOt

Basketball practice is now going on in
earnest. A squad of 25 men reported to
Coach Corboy Monday afternoon, and
cach man is determined towin a place on
the varsity. Captain Bob Brown, Alph
Brown, Mark McAdams, Ghee Fix and
Jesse Barker are the letter men who are
striving to win places on the team.
Many high school players are showing
up in fine style. Elon’s prospects for a
winning team are very bright. Hill,
Voliva and Norman, members of this
years’ Freshman class, are showing much
promise, and under the watchful eye of
Coach Corboy should develop quickly.—
Maroon and Gold.

No Man’s Land

All men laugh at, not with, a monkey.
Don't be a monkey.

FOR and not ON the world.

Build men and incidentally
fortunes.

Why. be The smallest, rag-
gedest black “wharf-rat on the Mobile
docks can spot you and beat you to a
frazzle.

Live

you build

profane?

Do not glory in brawn, Behold the ox.

It is casy to be facetitious; but it is

noble to be genuine.

You. may not see anything in Shakes-
peare’s plays. Perhaps it is not Shakes-
peare’s fault.

Some men cannot see the glory of the
Milky Way because of the White Way.

‘Firing Line.

The Tiger

Both Davidson and Clemson have re-

cently had the pleasure of hearing Mr.

'Skeyhill} the young Australian ex-soldier

! congratulate

Atlanta.

sang their way into the hearts of At-
the Atlanta Journal |

Atlanta the!

W. Simpson, Watt McCain, B. T. Cray-)

String Quartet—L. D. Elkins, J. R.

|

|

We
that
and

who spoke at Agnes Scott last year.
them, for we know
knows what to say,

Mr. Skeyhill

The honor system at Princeton is so
well developed. that students may even |
take their examination papers to their |
rooms and write out their answers in’
aboslute privacy —The Technique.

Spanish Drama |
Act I:
Act II:
Act IIT:

Bull, two toreadors.
Bull, one toreador.
Bull,
—Exchange.
We know of nothing that will show |
the rise that Wake Forest has taken!
since the advent of Gdrrity as well as|

man mark.—Old Gold and Black.

A stadium with a seating capacity of |
12,000 is now under construction at V. P. |
I. It will consist, when finished, of the}
usual quarter-mile track surrounding Bia
football field and baseball diamond, with |
concrete seats for the spectators, which
will slope up from the level of the field
to a height of 20 feet and rest on a
sloping embankment. An unique feature
will be a drive-way immediately behind
the bleachers from which spectators
seated in their cars can look down on!
the field over the heads of those in the
bleachers. It will be christened when!
V. P. I. meets in 1924.—Exchange.

The Duke brothers have donated $50,-
000 to Elon College for a science build-
ing as a memorial to their mother. It,
is to be called the Artelia Roney Duke)
Science Building in honor of Mrs, Duke, |
who was formerly an Alamance County |
daughter—Exchange. i

On account of the lack of winter sports,
the University of Florida is introducing |
several new games to its student body
this winter. Besides basketball, which
has been the only winter sport in the!
past. lacrosse field hockey, cage ball, and |
scrimmage ball will be played—Ex.

Dr. H. L. Smith has just returned from |

Richmond where he was one of the
guests and chief speakers of the con-.
vention for the centennial celebration of |
the promulgation of the Monroe Doc- |
trine.

H
shelves.

| Johnny Smith, president ;

| Did You Know That L

At one time Davidson boasted of a
“Boating Club?” The necessary aqua to
furnish support for the boats existed in
the form of an artificial lake of several
acres in extent called Lake Wiley, on
what is now part of the Golf Course.
But one spring the dam broke and the
lake quickly disappeared. The Davidson
College Magazine says of the misfortune:
“There is no dam by the lake site and no
lake by a dam site!” And the annual
for that year carries a pathetic poem
written on the college’s bereavement, one
stanza of which is:

“O Wiley dear, sweet Wiley fair
Of glassy bosom, say

How could you in your cold heart dare
To run from us away?”

One session the student body was so
large that, though they put four boys to
the room, it could not be accommodated
in the dormitories? Against all previous
expectations the student body took a
sudden jump to the record enrollment
of 67. Those students not fortunate
cnough to get rooms were allowed to
construct for themselves one-room
shacks out of such lumber as they could
find, with the additional privilege of sell-
ing these at the end of their collegg
course,

Manual labor was originally part of
the course of instruction? It was not
an elective course either. The students
cleared off the campus, cultivated the
college farm, ran a blacksmith shop, ete.

| But the ringing of the bell at any time

was a signal for the students to stop
and return to their rooms. One day
some students tied a pig to the bell rope
with enough corn to keep him contented
until they all got to the fields. After
the corn gave out,———

a

Chapel used to come before breakfast?
The first bell rang 15 minutes before sun-
rise? Is it any wonder, then, that one
night the bell tower was mysteriously
burned down and the bell carried off to
the woods?

It was a’ major from West Point that

| brought to Davidson the present system

of church and chapel attendance? But,

| he was an excellent instructor of Math-

ematics.

One time, over in chemical laboratory,

| the instructor, still a member of the fac-
ulty, became annoyed over some talking

in the room,
“Gentlemen!” he cried and smote the

| desk with the palm of his hand, four
an inverted comparison with the Ger-~*

bottles falling immediately from off their
“Do you know,”— and the win-
dow panes rattled as from an explosion

—“that it is those that make the most
noise that amount to the least in this
world!”

SANDLAPPERS PLAN FEED
AND IMPORTANT MEETING

The South Carolina Club will hold a
feed Tuesday, December 18th, in Phi
Hall to discuss the plans for getting high
school students of South Carolina inter-
ested in Davidson College.

At the last feed held earlier in the fall
it was decided by the members to have
another feed at a later date to discuss
the possibility of getting hight schol stu-
dents to come to Davidson. South Car-
olina has always been well represented
at Davidson College and it is the inten-
tion of the South Carolina Club that the
same grade of students continue to come
here from that state. During the Christ-
mas holidays the members of the club
will endeavor to line up the high school
student for Davidson.

When the business part of the mecting

|has been completed a feed will follow.
| A tempting feed is-promised by the com-

mittee. There will be a plenty of pea-
nuts for Rube Curdts who claims to be
“the pride” of Greenville.

The South Carolina Club, under the
leadership of Johnny Smith, has enjoyel
one of its most prosperous years. Every
South Carolinaian is striving to keep his
state well represented at Davidson.

The officers of the club this year are
Brown Mc-

Sunday morning Dr. Smith and Wil-| Callum, vice-president; Buck Shaw, sec-

liam J. Bryan took lunch with the Hon.
John Skelton Williams and that after-

W. Simpson, Watt McCain, B. T. Cray-| noon they took part in a gigantic parade

to the tomb of Monroe.—The Ring-tum
Phi.

~~:

retary and treasurer, and Rube Curdts,
janitor., With Johnny to lead us, and
Rube Curdts to eat peanuts and clean
‘up, the destinies of the club seem as-
sured of success.
