THE AVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923

Because of the interest evidenced by the
whole student body in Junior Speaking little
attention has been paid to the plans being
formulated for Commencement. As yet,
one or two of the speakers have not beez
secured, but otherwise the program is prac:
tically complete. ;

The Chief Marshal, L. P. Burney, work-
ing with the college authorities, invited the
Hon. William Jennings Bryan to make the
principal address, but Mr. Bryan has found
it impossible to accept. Dr. W. J. Martin
has written. to several prominent men,
among them being Hon. Jno. W. Davis,
former Ambassador to. England. None of
these, however, have replied.

As the program shows, examinations will
close on Saturday, June the second, and the
exercises will begin on the third. A novel
feature will be presented the night of the
fifth, which day will be devoted entirely to
Literary Society work. A joint meeting of
the four societies will be held in Shearer
Hall, at which time the Junior Oratorical
Medal will be awarded together with the
other society emblems and trophies. The
society diplomas will be delivered by a dis-
tinguished alumnus of one of the societies,
who will be selected later. The valedictor-
ian, who will come from the Senior class
has not yet.been chosen, nor has the Res-
pondent, who will come from the Junior
class. Probably on the evening of the figth,
the societies and the Senior Class will com-
bine in giving an outdoor reception.

The -program as it now stands, is as
follows:

June 2nd—Examinations close.

June 3rd—(11 A. M.) Baccalaureate Ser-
mon—Dr, J. M. Vander Meulen,

(8 P. M.) Annual Sermon before Y. M.
C. A—Dr. B. N. McLaughlin.

June 4th—(5 P. M.) Class Day Exercises.

(8 P. M.) Dramatic Club Play.

(10 P. M.) Book Burning.

June Sth—(9:30 A. M.) Meeting of Board
of Trustees,

(12:30 P. M.) Annual Literary Address
—Award of College Medals.

(1:30 P. M.) Alumni Luncheon and An-
nual Meeting of Alumni Association.

(5:00 P. Ml) Reception by Faculty.

(8:00 P. M.) Literary Society Exercises
(Junior Oratorical Contest, Award of Tro-
phies and Medals.)

June 6th—10:30 A. M.) Senior Oratorical
Contest, Graduation Exercises, Announce-
ments, Lowering of Class Flag, Singing of
Alma Mater.

D.
A PAGE OR TWO FROM
THE DIARY OF “SMUT”

6:15 A. M. Crawled out of my barrel
just east of the Commissary about ten min-
utes ago and found the morning to be unique
in that it was not raining! How all these
boys around here manage to sleep during
such a strange state of affairs is more than
I can imagine; it seems to me that the
absence of rain would be enough to wake
them up. That they are very much asleep
is evident from the noise of snoring that
greets the ear on all sides.

6:30. Huh! Not a scrap td be found
anywhere around the Trough. That means
that they are saving up for some hash.

7:15. Found out where Biddle goes for
his carly morning run. He goes out on the
golf course and hunts wild strawberries.

7:30. Just finished my tour of inspection
to see that all is ship-shape for the day on
the campus, I have nothing of interest to
report. The EU Hall burned down last
night, but that’s nothing unusual, although
this is the first time that this particular hall
has burned down.

7:35. The alarm clock chorus has com-
menced. It is exceptionally beautiful this
mornipg. The high soprano in Georgia is
once more on her job, and the second tenor
in Rumple, while more or less hectic due to
his fall out of a third story window yester-
day, still blends his voice most beautifully

_ with Big Ben, the bass, in East.

8:30. Believe I'll go to Chapel. Seems
like everybody. else is doing it.

8:45. I tried to make a few remarks
from the rostrum and as a result somebody

, hauled me off by the collar and kicked me
down the back stairs. I just wanted to an-

" fiounce to the students that it was my inten-
' “tion to handle their stick-chasing trade, the
‘test of ‘the dogs about here being dumb-
arely that’s nothing to be treated so

I was just trying to make my

!

red & group of sad-eyed
as I thought they must

SSEEESSESEEESEEEEISSSEEUEISS2U3$$82055$580201q00E:;g0004s8000% q000Eq00U08g02EsSEqNGSqqUESSSuUsSSEUISSIEGESsSeuEsIEStEsESuESESSEDESSoESSSENIEEO9S

SENIORS

Acree GREER EEG EEG ERE EE

Psychology class. I tried to cheer things
up a bit and got disrespectfully treated
again. Nobody seems to appreciate my
efforts! Still, Buddy Hines looked envious
when I was dragged out.

10:30. Holy smoke! The church just
burned down. This seems a trifle prema-
ture; thought that they were going to burn
it next week! They saved six hymn books
and the pillow Snag Bailey sleeps on.

11:00. Just won a debate with one of
the dogs of the Phi Society. The query
was, Resolved, That there are: too many
dogs about the Campus. I had the affirm-
ative and chased the negative down toward
the Trough. The last that I saw of him
was his speckled tail on the way through
the sausage grinder. Quite an appropriate
end.

11:45. The excitement’s all over. The
Greek class tried to sing “Aggravatin’ Papa”
in Greek to the tune of “A Hot Time In the
Old Town Tonight” and got it too hot
Just the east end of Shearer burned. They
saved the other end by tearing it down and
hauling it away.

12:30. Played a game of horse-shoes
with P. C. Henderson and beat him 11 to 3.
He out argued me three times.

1:15. Just woke up from my “siesta”.
Since I’ve started going on Spanish classes
I’ve gotten real Espanolish in my tastes.
2:15. The Library just got in a box of
1923 Russian novels. When they opened the
case they found the inside of the box
scorched and the covdrs of the books
blushing. After tearing out all the pages
except the title page they put the books
out on the shelves.

3:00. Went down to see the 2:58 come
in. There wasn't a thing good looking on
it so we let the engineer drag his ramblin;
wreck Mt. Mourne-ward. :
4:10. Just helped Major Cooper review
the Battalion. It was rotten. I tried to
show C Company how to do Column Left
but just as I did it they did Column Right
and I got all walked on. Made me real
sore,

5:00. Barracks burned down but Hough's
clarinet and Deck’s tin bugle were saved
so everybody was disappointed. Rotten
management, I’ll tell the world!

6:45. They had sausage at Trough, just
as I expected.

7:45. Gosh! Something I’ve eaten doesn't
agree with me! Feels like a Mexican revo-
lution inside.

8:30. OOOOOOOOOO!! I’m going to
see the doctor. That dog I had a debate
with is trying to get even with me!

TD.

Monkey Business

(A Parable)

Once upon a time, so my inainma told me,
Mr. and Mirs. Monkey had a little son and
they named him Jocko. Now Father and
Mother Monkey wanted their son to be a
smart monkey when he grew up, especially
about gathering cocoanuts, and often after
he had wrapped his tail around the limb, and
gone to sleep they talked over their hopes
for him.

Finally they heard of a,place where young
monkeys could go and learn how to do all
the things that monkeys do, so they sent
Jocko away so he could learn the best
ways of gathering cocoanuts and doing
other things. Little Jocko felt rather strange
when he first arrived and found a lot of
monkeys he had never seen before, some
older than he and some about his age. He
thought the older ones, who looked like they
had been there a good while, might have
been a little more friendly to him. He
thought they might have tried to help him
learn how to act and to overcome his “home-
sickness” but he told himself he would stay
on anyhow and learn to act and do every-
thing he could.

After he had been with this strange set
of monkeys for a while he heard some of
them say they were going to choose a cap-
tain monkey to direct them in anything they
were interested in. Then he heard argu-
ments in monkey language of what kind of a
monkey they should have for their captain.

Some wanted a big strong monkey, saying
he could by his strength show them how
to gather cocoanuts and how to make the
new monkeys which came there work for
them. But others said it would: be better
to find a captain who would show them in
an orderly, systematic way how to gather
cocoanuts and how to act toward the mon-
|keys which came to learn things there. And
there arose much strife over the matter and
all the monkeys were jabbering away about

Pt tng itt

NINTH ANNIVERSARY OF
LIVEST WIRE ON HILL

Nine ‘years ago the leaders of student life
at Davidson, feeling the need of a paper to
record college happenings, brought before
the Student Body their proposition, and on
the evening of March 18, 1914, the Student
Body, voted to publish a weekly paper.

The Davidsonian Hornet, Red and Black
and many other names were suggested but
The Davidsonian was the name adopted and
from its founding its work has been synon-
ymous with everything done for the better-
ment of Davidson.

On Appril 1, 1914, the first issue was pub-
lished. ‘This issue marks the two hundred
and seventy-fourth printing of the paper.
In its. original form The Davidsonian was a
four page four column sheet, and for five
years it remained in this’ form. In 1919 it
was enlarged to its present five column
form.

Frank W. Price of Nanking, China, was
the first editor-in-chief of the paper and one
of the leaders in the organization of the
paper. To him and to the other members
of the first staff belongs the credit for
organizing the “Livest Wire on the Hill.”

The original staff and the editors of The
Davidsonian are as follows:

BPW eRHCO cc ciace scent Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams............ Assistant Editor
Pe DR athick sriesies 5 siaies Business Manager
W. G. Somerville....... Assistant Manager
Staff
J. H. Carson Norman Johnson
J. E. Faw L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton
1915-16

J. P. Williams
Je He Carsonyiss cadisene

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

1916-17
Be cBicbrices sears Editor-in-Chief
Wie HO NEdl iiianitei 6 Business Manager
1917-18
R, Hy Stones... 6s se eanes ste Editor-in-Chief
(OF Ravi pp hounandandc Business Manager
1918-19
EB, Ay Woods... esiesaauns Editor-in-Chiez
MACE StOne sietincsues nee Business Manager
1919-20

D. W. Roberts and §. H. Askew......
Editors-in-Chief

C. J. Matthews.......... Business Manager
1920-21
Je BieCagsellieyi cnvsvceiat Editor-in-Chief
A. G, Oltinan and C. J. Matthews......
RIOT OU Le ICE Business Managers
1921-22
J. M. Richards............. Editor-in-Chief
Ne OF AWOON iss isiisieaes Business Manager
1922-23
R. F. Davidson............. Editor-in-Chief
W. J. Cooper.........43% Business Manager
1923-24
E,-D, Biking). ioccce sete Editor-in-Chief
Re Tebtices since cies *... Business Manager

it. The real young monkeys wanted the
strong monkey for their captain but the
older monkeys said they would be sorry if
they chose a captain like that, and advised
that the other kind of captain would be best.

Then came the day for choosing the
captain, They decided to each get-a cocoa-
nut and putit in a pile, those wanting the
big strong monkey putting their’s in one
pile and those wanting the wise monkey
putting their’s in another pile.

And then something sad happened. It
wasn’t such a surprise, of course, for mon-
keys think more of strength than of wisdom.
Sad to relate, the pile of cocoanuts for the
strong monkey was larger and he was de-
clared the captain. His friends shrieked
and yelled for they thought they had won a
great victory.

But things didn’t go well and some of the
monkeys got to be bad and the new monkeys
who came from time to time got to be bad
too. .Then even a lot of those who had
helped choose the captain wished they had
listened to the wiser monkeys, but they
could do nothing for the captain had been
chosen and they had to suffer for their fail-
ure to think and listen to good advice before
Placing their cocoanuts on the pile. Now
wasn’t that awful?

And my Mama says that that’s why people
like us are so much better than monkeys—
they think beforehand and pick good leaders
for what they have to do,

TD.

Shot
Dr. Sentelle (in Bible)—What is the

canon?
Fresh—Canon? er, a cannon is a hole
“Come, sir,” said> the teacher to. the
at the foot of the class, “how do you
The boy at the foot answered thoughtf
et on whether the word is appli
a

echetp even nae TRS RT NIA EAE IRI TPT IR SI Be So TN a na Pore ns

with brass poured all around it.
Bad
nounce ‘s-t-i-n-g-y?’
or a bee,

| NUT SUNDAES

Considering the amount of rain we have
had recently, a number of the students are
displaying a good bit of daring in wearing
their “please don’t rain” suits so promiscu-
ously. Among the students who are so bold
as to tempt old Jupe might be mentioned,
Covington, Bostick, Northrop, Rawson,
faylor and Baker.

Mr. M. T. Regen, of Franklinton, Tenn.,
visited his sons during the past week. Mr.
Regen’s visit was made necessary by the ill-
ness and the operation upon his son, C. D.,
for appendicitis,

Congressman Doughton of Washington,
D. C., spent a few days with his son, Claude
Doughton, during the past week.

Whoever said “In the Spring a young
man’s fancy suits and socks come into view”
certainly uttered a wise ‘saying.

The greeness of the grass must make the
Freshmen feel quite at home these days.

Snag Bailey is the latest pupil of Earl
Leiderman, the great physical culturist.
Snag hopes to prove to the student body ere
tong that he’s not dead from the neck down.

Alfred Moffett returned during the past
week from Dublin,,Ga., whence he was
called due to the illness of his mother.

Mr. Owens, who spoke at “Y” Sunday night
on seeing Piggy Martin remarked, “Oh yes,
you're Mr. Gallagher—you can’t disguise
that face of yours!”

Headlines that have so far escaped the
press:

Gamble takes up golf for pastime.

I went to East Tenn. State Normal last

year—Lamons,

Only made 98 on Latin—Brenner.

Chink Woods’ on returning from Char-
lotte, found painted on his door “Spark Plug,
Stable No. 2”. You know Chink’s out for
Track. Since the room has been labelled
thusly, Harold Covington is known as Mrs.
Spark Plug.

Ibsen’s plays are not permitted to be
played on the London stage, yet are played
at Davidson. My, London must be con-
servative.

Rosy Cheek Martin and Burke were
guests at N. C. C. W. in Greensboro the
past week-end,

SPEEDY CAR TAKES
UP ART OF FENCING

The college and its students are daily un-
dertaking more varied and awe-inspiring
activities. The latest, and the one which
requires unheard of skill, is fencing with the
foils. :

This new arrival in the sporting line is
ardently and somewhat ambitiously held up
by “Speedy” Carr, the owner of the magnifi-
cent equipment just installed at his expense.
The art of the foils is one which requires
the utmost rapidity of movement and endur-
ance, not to speak of the exceedingly intri-
cate technicalities which are only acquired
by consistent and faithful practice.

It is interesting to note that Mr. Carr
takes his training.so seriously that he is
said to have completely demolished the left-
handed foil while in supposedly mortal com-
bat with an unwary victim who did not
possess the grace of movement.and exquisite
technique so disastrously exhibited by him-
self.

Mr. Carr, in a recent statement, declared
his intention of fostering the new sport to
the limit, and further states that he will
shortly be able, after ‘intensive training, to
throw his cap into the ring and challenge
all comers, regardless of age, size, or com-
plexion.

D.

Spring Fever

How pleasant it is for a man to stretch
out on the grass in the shade. How easy it
is to learn to sleep on your classes and to
look out of the window. The professor is
just as languid as you are so’ he doesn’t
care much whether you listen: or not.

Let’s just remember in passing that this
is the important time of this Spring’s work.
You Seniors remember that your exams are
only six weeks off. Many of your dips
are still in the balance. It might me well
worth your time to think about this a littie.
To the others of the student body, let it be
an ever present thought that what you flunk
now will have to be taken over next Spring.

These are sad and solemn thoughts and
it is an abomination that we must be both
ered with them. It is a safe bet that if
you don’t buck up and overcome your natural
tendencies for rest_and quiet reflection now
you will be among that number who are
Sia the sad refrain, “It might have

"Kind. def.

sSSSEEESSSEEEESSSSSSEUESSSS59000SUEs1azisttonisssssssanssissieazsst

The Reel Stuff

_The Reel Stuff |

The show for next week will be “Missing
Millions”, starring Alice Brady, and will be
shown Monday night, April 2nd.

The picture is taken from a novel of the
same name by Jack Boyle, the author of
“The Face In The Fog” and other popular
novels, This novel ran in the “Red Book”,
which has a circulation of 750,000.

The hero and heroine are the two most
beloved characters of the underworld, Bos=
ton Blackie and Mary. Boston Blackie and
Mary try to revenge themselves against a
man who crooked Mary’s father out of a
large sum of money, so they steal $2,000,000
in gold nuggets out of a ship bound from
Alaska. When they find that an innocent
man_is suspected of the robbery they return
the money.

This is one of the best crook stories of
the year. “Alice Brady is pretty and viva-
cious and her acting in this picture is up to
her excellent standard.

Some of the pictures ‘that are booked for
the rest of the year are among the best
that have been produced in the histoty of
the motion picture industry. The following
are among them: “Robin Hood”, on April
28th; “The Pilgrim’, featuring Charles
Chaplin; “One Exciting Night”; “Mr. Bill-
ings Spends His Dime”, featuring Walter
Hiers; “The World’s Applause”, featuring
Bebe Daniels; “The White Flower”, feat-
uring Betty Compson. The management
this year is securing the best pictures, con-
sidered as a whole, that have ever been
shown at Davidson. The projection also
equals that at any good theatre.

ee

TRIBE OF CANINES
INVADE DAVIDSON

And lo, it came to pass in those days that
there was one, King Smut, who ruled over
the nation of the Canines, Now King Smut
was very powerful among his fellow men. -
Yea, he was respected and honored above
all peoples,

Now it came to pass that in those days
that the men of the land of Davidson (the
college of the prophets) did become very
wicked in the sight of all men. . Yea verily
they did even follow after strange gods and
gave themselves as a sacrifice to Jazz. .

And on the fifteenth day of the eleventh
month there apeared before Smut, king of
the Canines, one who said, “Oh King, thou
art all-powerful, and I know that thou canst
do all things. Lo, I have returned this day
from the land of the Davidsonians, and oh,
most powerful one, I pray thee that thou
wilt gather together thy captains and thy
young men and wilt go down and occupy for
thyself the land of the Davidsonians,

So it was that Smut gathered together his
ost and journed forth to the land of the
men of Davidson, a city large and prosper.
ous.

Now the men of the land, not ‘being
warned beforehand, gladly received into
their tents the hosts of the Canines. Yea,
they did even allow them free use of the
land.

And it came to pass that there was one
of the tribe of Georgia, a man of no meta
ability, whose name was Duck, which being
interpreted means Shepherd.

In that day when Duck saw King Smut he
had compassion on him and said, “Oh, King,
I know that thou dost know all things. That
which I have give I unto thee.” So it was
that King Smut abode with Duck, of the
tribe of Georgia, and their love surpassed
the love of women.

Verily I say unto thee that the hosts of
the Canines outnumbered the Davidsonians
so that there were no tents for the men of
the Canines to abide in. Now it came to
pass that as they journey through the land
that they came upon a temple of the David-
sonians which was called Shearer. In those
days the men of Davidson were wont to
gather in Shearer at the third hour to hear
the reading of the law. So jit came to pass
that when the Canines saw the temple they
abode in it.
Now the High Priest, haying had a vis-
ion, warned the people of Davidson and beg-
ged them to drive out the Canines.

When the people heard this they were
filled with great wrath and called upon their
leader, a man of virtue, even Sam, the son
of Davis, of the West tribe, to deliver them.
So it was that the battle waxed hot and
many were slain, yea, even one Wildman, of
the tribe of Rumple, but the Canines were .
victorious. Yea, verily, they did remain in
the land for it was a goodly land overflow-
ing with bones and biscuits,”

D—

“The Atom,”* sai i i

Fresh chemist ae tar Biotin 4

than your knowledge ‘of PP hat
