THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

fh here was direct and appealing and

BUCK CURRIE DELIVERS
INSPIRATIONAL TALK

The Y. M..C.. A. service held Sunday
evening was second to none this term in its
impressiveness. Buck Currie, the beloved
“Y” secretary, and a man who knows con-
ditions on the hill, addressed the meeting,
taking for his subject; “The Renewal of the
Contract Between God and Man.” He took
as his text Gen. 9:13, “I do set my bow in
the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a
covenant between me and the earth.”

“There are twelve major religions,” Buck
said, “eleven of which are unreal—but each
of which has some good points, The Chris-

+ tian religion is a combination of the good,
and an exclusion of the bad, of the other
religions.

“The book of Genesis tells the story of the
foundation of this great religion, and of the
relation of God and man. As man broke the
first covenant, God renewed it, and gave man
as a reminder the beautiful bow, which He
set in the sky.

“The sun is shining always; the bow is
always present. Yet we, being so close to
it, lose sight of its beauty. Just as a person
may behold the beauty of a forest from
afar, yet when he stands in the midst of that
forest lose sight of its beauty, so we, in the
midst of God’s blessings, sometimes lose
sight of Him. When you have a vision of
God, whether the vision appears beautiful or
not depends on your relation to Him.

“The scientific definition of the rainbow
causes it to lose its beauty, but the real
beauty, the real meaning given it by God,
was as a symbol, a sign, a token of Divine
Love. Unless we take the real significance
of the rainbow, the significance God gave it,
we cannot see its real beauty.

“Everything that is worth a great deal
comes into our lives through sorrow of some
kind. The rainbow came after the fall of
man to remind man of his sorrow. It was
taken and dedicated by God as a sign of
God’s covenant with man, as a symbol of
His Divine Love. :

“All nature is the sign of God’s hand in
the world. Looking on His works in their
real significance, we cannot forget Him.
The sacrament, baptism, the Bible, the house
of prayer, are God’s tokens of His care for
man,

“We see calamities, sorrows, destruction,
fires; they are the work of God’s hand, and
we must stand up under the calamities in-
sead of becoming discouraged.

“We do not see the workings of God's
bow in our own vision, but through the eyes
of faith, If we do not see His hand in the
works of man, our faith is blind. His love
is manifest in the work of man among his
fellow-men and in the hand-shake of man
with man, -

“The bow is a sign of God’s faithfulness

P

| No one who has heard him can fail to admit | the bright spot in an otherwise disastrous
| account of that appeals to other young men.
| N oone who has heard him can fail to admit
| that he is a most eloquent speaker. His first, Camp on the Christians’ court.

| campaign, for it was the first time in recent
\ any that ‘Davidson had taken Elon into

| Not to be downed by the frown of Dame

to His contract. If the contract is broken, his audience went away much helped by the | Fortune, Coach Grey’s warriors met Wake

it will be broken by man.

message which he brought. No one can

Forést at Davidson and staged a come-back,

“Christ, the perfect man, bore His cross to | afford to miss hearing him the second time. tasting sweet revenge for the defeat of the

the top of the hill only to surrender Himself |
to the death of the cross. Sin retreated from |
the light of righteousness. He left His |
peace with us. ‘My peace I give unto thee.’”
Pat, Crawford presided at the meeting,
while Vic Brown led the singing: Kretschmar
played the piano. White and Finn furnished

instrumental music.
T).

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE |
TO BE HELD AT STATE

The Seventh Annual Volunteer Confer-
ence will be held in Raleigh on March 9,
10 and 11. The meeting is expected to be
the most successful yet held.

A splendid program has been arranged for
the three days, and the very best of speakers
have been secured. They are Rev. Dr.
Wade C. Smith, of Greensboro; Dr. Claude
McLee, M. D., of the Episcopal Mission in
China; Mrs. Berring, Raptist Foreign Mis-
sion; Mr. Frank J. Gilliam, the head of all
missionary educational work in Africa;
Lyman Hooner, traveling secretary of the
Student Volunteer Movement; Virginia
Pritchard and Dr. C. G. Homshell, of the
Methodist Mission Board. All meetings will
be held at the N. C. State Y. M. C. A.
building. On Friday night a stereopticon
lecture will be given by Geo. C. Bellingrath,
of Union Seminary. On Saturday evening
a pageant entitled, “The Gift of Self,” will
be given by the Trinity Board. After the
pageant an entertainment will be given to
those attending the conference by the “Y”
cabinets of Meredith College and N. C. State.

The meetings will be presided over by
suy E, Weeks, of Davidson College, presi-
dent of the Student Volunteer. Every meet-
ing will be opened promptly and all doors
will be closed after the meeting starts.

Davidson has ten delegates to the con-
ference. They are: L. A, Guiton, G. E.
Weeks, A. P. Hudgins, D, B. Wharton,
W. T. Baker, A. M. McBryde, J. L. McLean,
J. H. Davis, D. B. Walthall and F. C,
Thames.

D
CHARLOTTE PASTOR TO
BE NEXT “Y” SPEAKER

Mr. W. B. Mclllwaine, pastor of the

D.

EMILIO BOSCH SPEAKS
TO VOLUNTEER BAND
After the songs and Scripture reading,
led by Green and McBride, Emilo Bosch
talked on Educational Missions in Cuba
before the Volunteer Band last Sunday.
He brought out the fact hat a missionary
must be a man. He is doing a man’s work,
and it is hard work, but it brings satisfaction.
Bosch told the story of Rev. John G. Hall,

was no longer a young man, and besides this
he worked under many difficulties—lack of
strength, inadequate funds, and the strong
opposition of the Catholic Church. How-
ever, he kept on at the work, and soon some
of the men of the city proposed that he teach
English to those who wished to learn it.
He started a school, consisting of himself as
teacher, and four boys and four girls as
pupils. Inside of two. years there were
eighty-six pupils and the school had to be
moved to more spacious quarters. Later,
Dr. Leslie Wharton, a Davidson man, took
charge of the school because Mr. Hall was
no longer able toteegduct the work.

Today there are seven hundred and fifty
pupils in the central schol at Cardenas, In
the same system, there are ten schools, hav-
ing a total enrollment of four thousand
pupils. Last year there were thirty-five
graduates. Eighty-nine teaches are employed,
forty-six of whom are native Cubans. The
Bible is taught in these scholos, and although
this is strongly opposed by the Catrolic
Church, pupils have to be turned away on
account of a lack of room. At the beginning
Mr. Hall received $250 a month to be spent
for the support of his school. Last year
$85,000 dollars was spent. for the whole

system.
D.

PROFESSOR WAGNER IS
MINISTERIAL SPEAKER

The Ministerial Band, at its meeting last
Sunday morning, heard an instructive and
interesting talk by Professor Wagner on the
subject, “The Importance of Public Speaking
to the Minister.” “The minister,” the speaker
said, “has advanced and aided the cause of

previous week. In this case the score was
a decisive one, 27 to 17. On the home court
|the Red and Black machine was running
‘smocthly, but down in the Palmetto State
| a cog slipped somehow and two games were
droppéd to Clemson and Wofford, the latter

.4 by a heart-rending score of 32 to 30.

About this time Pat Crawford began to
strut his stuff, and Furman was defeated by
39 to 34, a good finish for the South Carolina

|trip. But Warhoss Mauze was crippled in

| who went to Cardenas, Cuba, in 1898, He the Furman contest and his loss was irre-

parable to the Wildcats. Guifford and Elon

‘each carried away the big end of a score,

and the curtain dropped on Davidson’s cage
sport until 1924,

In reviewing the scores for the 17 games,
Captain Mauze is found at the top of the
list, with 146 markers to his credit out of
the 504 total. Captain George, early in his

asket-ball career, won the appellation of
“Warhoss” by his style of charging about
the floor, swooping down on the ball via
the aerial route, or diving under an opponent
to gain possession of the sphere. Mauze’s
ability to cover territory was astounding at
times, and his defensive work was no minor
part of the great game played by the Wild-
cat captain. Warhoss usually soared into the
air and turned the ball loose while several
feet above the floor—always good for two
counters. From the 15-foot line Captain
George also performed admirably.

Running neck and neck with Mauze in
scoring was Pat Crawford, with 144 points
in his favor. In view of the fact that Pat
played at guard’s position, his topping the
list in number of field goals is the more re-
markable. Crawford was easily the best
running guard seen on Davidson’s floor this
year, and ought to land a berth on the
mythical all-state five. Certainly it will be
a long time before D. C. finds another Pat
Crawford. He and Warhos will be losses
hard to replace on next year’s team.

Red Laird landed third place in the art of
dropping the pill through the leather. 110
counters were due to Red’s fast playing and
sure aim. Coming as a Freshman, Red has
decidedly made good this year, and will be
the only Freshman to receive the coveted
“D” in basket-ball this season. With three

Westminster Church in Charlotte, is the man Public speaking because the minister has had years ahead of him, great things can be

selected to speak to the Y. M. C. A. next
Sunday. Most of the students will re-
member Mr. Mclllwaine’s powerful talk on
“Jesus Before Pilate” earlier in the year.
At the University of Virginia, where Mr.
McIlwaine started his college career, he won
letters in track and baseball. Later he went
to Hampden-Sidney and Union Theological
Seminary, in Richmond. Before going to
Charlotte he held the pastorate of the Mizpah

Presbyterian Church in Richmond.

more opportunities for speaking, and has
had a better education than most men.

“The importance of having something to
say has a great deal to do with the success
of the minister. A century ago fluency of
speech would have deceived a large part of
the ‘people, but today only a few can be
fooled. Therefore, the minister should be
an an intelligent person, with perseverence.
The minister must be acquisitive, and should

expected of Laird.

At the other forward position, Staley and
Beall both did gr@at work, and not a few of
the season’s scores were made by these fast,
hard-playing Wildcats. Beall, a letter man
last year, kept up his good record this year.

| Staley rose to prominence this season and
|his playing was steady, consistent, often
| flashy. Both Mac and Staley could be de-
pended on to give the enemy everything they

| always be on the lookout for good examples had.

Figuring in terms of points doesn’t give
due credit to Sook Boggs, who stuck around
the enemy’s territory and messed up count-
less attempts to get at their goal. Sook
was airtight on defensive work, and his
services were invaluable to the Poison Squad.
Two more years of work with the Wildcats
ought to make Boggs a terror to any
opponents.

Nappy Davis, having won his letter at
guard last year, was given the more difficult
task this season of playing center, guard or
forward, wherever needed. At any one of
these positions he ran rings around his
opponent, specializing in dribbling the length
of the court through the whole defending
team. Nappy ought to step into Warhoss
Mauze’s shoes at the pivot position next year
without any trouble.

McConnell and Elkins rounded out the
Wildcat squad, Both did their part in
making the fighting felines the scrappers
that they were, the former at guard, the
latter at forward.

Summary of games played:

Played At Opponents
Charlotte ...Davidson, 36 Charlotte Y, 29
Davidson ... 4 38 Charlotte Y, 32
Davidson ... ie 21 +N. C. State, 8
Concord .... At 35 Concord Y, 28
Charlotte ... Md 27 Trinity, 39
Davidson ... iy 37. Wofford, 12
Davidson ... ee 37 Concord Y, 21
N. C. State.. Me 22 +N. C. State, 26
BON eects Uy 30 W. Forest, 29
Wake Forest My 24 Elon, 24
Guilford .... i 43 Guilford, 45
Davidson ... Md 27. W. Forest, 17
Clemson .... . 18 Clemson, 25
Wofford .... i! 30 Wofford, 32
Furman if 39 Furman, 34
Davidson ... i 15 Guilford, 23
Davidson ... ul 25 Elon, 39

Leadership—

CHERO-COLA
GRAPE-MELO
OQRANGE-MELO

ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

|and illustrations to bring before his congre-

gation. The minister must be experienced | (20000 ROSS
and must mix with the people at: social |

gatherings, because it is the ministers’ in-| Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

fluence that lifts up the social world.
“The minister must choose what is im-
JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

portant, and must arrange his sermon so as |
# |to influence his people as much as possible. |
HY | An authority has said that fifty per cent of
the efficiency of a sermon depends on its

SEA Stee ee The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presby-

crate ihehiond snare a aati baipadie terian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p. m., begin-

‘ing Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednes-

dey, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are

invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be

highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible

through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Char-

with and take part in things other than re-
leston, S.C.
SMYTH LECTURES

peresssssssscsccacsssssssssssssessssssssssssssssssescecesssssess aprecceessssss

BELK BROS. CO.

The Home of Better Values

CLOTHING DEPT.

Spring time is here and we are
ready with all the new. things in
young Men’s New. Spring Suits,
made in serges, the new checks
and stripes. Made in all the new-
est models and strictly hand-tail-
ored. - Specially priced at

$19.95, $25.00, $29.50 and

NEW SPRING TIES

New spring silk, ties made in
all the new shapes and patterns.

50c, 75c, 98c and $1.50

ligious affairs. No one has the opportunity
to do as much good as the minister, because
he can always get a hearing.”
| D.
5 WILDCATS QUINTET
(Continued from Page 1)
ten games played on foreign soil, only three

Big lot Collars, laundered or
soft, all new shapes.

$35.00 resulted in victories for Davidson. Starting
: Laundered Collars off with the old-time fighting spirt, the Red Wednesday, April 11th
: s|and Black machine invaded Charlotte and Q u
“CRIP ai AG H  brovighs backs ths bacon fromthe Via © AL Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

Atlanta, Ga. “‘Sermonic Sources”
Thursday, April 12th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

team. Concord “Y” came next and put up
a stiff opposition, but could not overcome
the ‘fast work of Captain Mauze and his

Weare showing a swell line of

Young Men’s Spring Felt Hats Soft Collars

in all the snappy colors and 25c, 35c and 48c_ scrapers. Jacksonville, Fla. “Passion in Preaching”
shapes at nates the tide turned. At Charlotte, | Friday, April 13th
$2.95, $3.95 and $4.95 Finity met and checked the triumphal march § Dr, W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian
MEN’S HOSIERY ee Segoe teeta we fave to hand it/§ Church, New Orleans, La. | ““The Man and His Message”

Monday, April 16th é
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
Jackson, Miss. “Regulative Ideas in Preaching”
Tuesday, Ape 17th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
Nashville, Tenn. *“Sermonizing” ~
Wednesday, apd 18th
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
Mobile, Ala. ‘The House in Which the Minister Lives”

_COLLEGE BOYS’ SHIRTS Wofford and Concord “Y” were easily
defeated on Davidson’s court, and -the star
of hope again burned brightly above the Red
| and Black banner. But a trip to four North
Carolina Colleges dashed such hopes on the
rocks of disappointment. On their tour
through the Tar Heel State the Wildcats’
field goals equaled or. surpassed their oppon-
ents’ scoring from the floor, but fouls were
frequent and costly—costly to the extent of
three games out of four. That fourth was

Men’s Fine Lisle Thread Sox,
all colors.

25¢ and 35c
Men’s Silk Sox, |

~ College Boys’ Shirts made
with or without collar, made in
the new checks and stripes, also

Pee Serta

