THE DAVIDSONIAN, /FEBRUARY/5; 3928

: : ’
Mel oft io bay ot ts avetb
isloob 2i it attozeionnes Ino

bolnozo1@ wove aton

yeh Vt

a2.

RELIGI

PTE A etal |) a:
BOGOR’ PORTER SPEAKS
KIT ON. DUT: }OF

A PASTOR
The Ministerial Band” ard’ the’ 'Volunter
fan ‘ two: motiths, whave had
“inio meetings, but, ‘on ‘account of special
hhusiness' tg be’ transs
Band, the two’ nds’ decided: to meet sepa-
tately fpr ‘Several ‘weeks. , The ‘Ministerial
Band wes fortunate in Having Doctor Porter
'Speakto ‘them. Sunday’ ‘morning, at its first

‘ i jay mo}
FT BODO o8 cir OF 9b PtOn
meé| ince ‘the bands

ing since /Separated, He pre-
sented an interesting ‘talk on the subject,
“Feeding my sheep,” which seemed to im-

He \men t pring
bree ali ts enalenetpreseat ope. ins

home to em a ez on of the im:
dorientotedesl ihe het abd gaining
themselves. . ’ ;

Doctor Polter’4 fiead ipolite ad obedience
to tcchinmandi Alitthis relation hettoid of
everal instances where “men had tried to
eep from entering the ministry when they
elt like it was their calling, and he pictured)
hem later coming back to thg work ae
God had chosen: a HhaNI@ IE Belalso
pictured some mer¥ who have entered the
ministry because they thought it was their)
¢alling, but who found success only after
they changed to something of a different
ature R Vey CS YCY ILI |
! Next. the. dpeaker histdeledthetmihistery’
work as being one of responsibility. He
showed_that the mjnisters’ work is not only
tat kind A ob fated ot i
sheep, but of feeding his sheep. Several
xamples were used llustrating the fact:

hat-man iet--for “siple; peoples has)
heahods Lat i Afted! pe gh 071 la
the quickest growth possible, and then the!
question: “How much more carefully should
the ministéi# Fj thédy-giéparéstlie food for
their sheep?” was asked.
speaker said, “Ministers warm over the food!
for their sheep.” ; |
| The Band was impressed by the vivid
picture wok the minister,.who.goes into his!
wotkj because sit) is/ishduty,, with Tove, re-
sponsibility, thoughtfulness and sincerity,
and. accomplishes wonderful. work. for_ his|
aster, “Jesus, Christ, - =

| D Rea |
CAPTAIN
TOV 7A PRRea pf ba
| Last Sufday the Volunteers secured
in Hearn'to' Speakon’ his’ itnpressions
pie War.

° Gastall aden

the most part is corrupt Spanish, but in so: le}
parts French is spoken. Most of the people
are ignorant and poor, They live in poverty-
stricken dirty, crowded towns. Their prin-
cipal pastime is cock fighting, with horse
racing and bull fighting a close second. He
said that they have no ambition, being an
uninterested, listless people, not caring much
what happens. :

He mentioned going to a little Catholic
church built in the sixteenth century. It
had hard concrete floors on which every one

“knelt. The American troops attended all
public meetings to prevent them from plan-
ning’ anything hostile. The priests are
slightly more refined than the rest of the
people, but they,do not live up to their vows.
and are immoral.

Most of the houses are made of sun-dried,
mud bricks, The army encamped under such
constructions in many instances.

The Mexicans had poor transportation for
their troops; the soldiers would ride in
‘wooden box cars, their families on top to
do their cooking, while they had their freight
strapped under the cars. Their ammunition
also was poor, many of the cartridges not
even fitting into the rifles they had.

“Thus if you were to live and work with
those people in Mexico south of El Paso,”
said the Captain, “you would find a desert
country, populated with ignorant; poor,
Suspicious people, believing in and controlled
by a run-down, decadent Church.”

————

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
WORK IS PRESENTED

--The Christian Endeavor Training .Class
had an interesting program presented to
them last Sunday in the form of an. execu-
tive committee meeting of the United Society
of Christian Endeavor. :

The meeting was called to order by Dr.
F. E. Clark, the one who founded Christian
Endeavor in Maine 42 years ago (W. W.
). He stated that it was very gratify:
they had all laid aside their voca-
had come to the called meeting of
“committee. © Prayer was offered. by a
er of the committee. The roll was
d' and although there were two who

La

|

&
tee

t

|

8
1

¢''transacted by the Volunteer

“Too often,” the]

that the language f r fs

Wete’ hide present they both sent their repre-
Seiitative to ‘answer to their tiames and ‘to
make their feports: :

Those present’ were E. P; Gates (Milton),
the general secretary of Christian’ Endeavor ;
C. FY 'Evans (Bowie), secretary for the all-
South Extension Committee; BD. ‘A? 'Poling
(Barr); asso¢iate president and’ citizenship
supt.; C. C) Hamilton’ (Bracey), field’ man-
ager, for the Christian Endeavor World} H.
B. Grose’ (O'Conner), vice-president and
Wm. ‘Shaw ‘(Deck), general’ secretary” for
the ‘World's Christian Endeavor Untions} R.
‘p\ “Anderson, the’ editorial secretary, sent his
representative | (Carr), who ‘reported ' for
him, and’ S.'B. Vandersalf, the alumni super-
intendent hy. his private secretary ‘(Gar-
rison). Nera

‘Att’'‘made ‘splendid’ ‘reports’ ‘and “Doctor
Clatk was more than pleased’ with the work
that, Christian’ Endeavor is doing all over the)
world.” ‘The other member of the’ class en-
joyed the meeting and were informed as’ to
the proceedure of an executive committee
meetiny. | (

‘The class frequently has such meetings and
they are interesting to all who are present.
The class is starting a course in expert en-
deavor, beginning with next Sunday. It
will run for approximately ten weeks, the
course requiring that much time for com-
pletion. It! especially wishes to get all who
may be’ interested’ in it enrolled so as to
have'as'‘many Christian Endeavore. Beastie
as possible when‘ the course is finished.’ If
you ‘tte interested he ‘sure to come to the
meeting next Sundey at 1:15 in’ ‘Shearer
Hall: gence Mb ees
im ib ci
What Do: You Bring Home?
One! mati goes’ out ‘'to ‘his’ work,’ comes
home ‘home with a’ pay’ énvelope—nothing
thore! sero tert ‘

Another mai) goes ‘out to his work, comes
back ‘with his’ wage—ard something ‘added
to his character. In the day’s' work he’ fotmd
a’ chatice ‘to grow—and ‘thereby he! has! paid
himself a dotible' wage. ' latte.
A’ little! tbre ‘skill; a’ greater’ dexérity, a

i| new’ atid better Way to do'the job, may 'séeth
|| Soiiéthing 6 his erriployer, ‘but! it ttearis ‘ih-
|| finitely “more to him. The tool which he
Sholds fn'his' hand iv ‘the ‘meds by Which’ he
‘shapes ef

inuséle,. is. | pat
sputs into his work today determines what hie
still | be: tomorrow. Selected.

oad dak Wat be

D.

ul. today ol) ly ( se
OFF WITH A, FLYING START H+
(Continued from: Page. :1)

Charlotte Y. M. C. A., Saturday night by
a score of 38 to 32, The victory was a
hard-earned one; the outcome was never cer-
tain unftf’the final whistle blew. Out to
avenge the defeat of two weeks ago, the
Charlotte team fought bravely, and in the
last half of the game showed a flash of bril-
liant playing which almost tied the /Score.
Under the leadership of Captain Warhoss
Mauze, however, Davidson rallied’ and put
over the winning points.

The game was a fast one from the first
toss-up. By speed and team-work, combined
with remarkable goal-shooting, Davidson ob-
tained a lead in a few minutes ofsplay, the
score standing 18 to 11 at the end of the first
half. Early in the second period Charlotte
Staged a rally, holding the Wildcats at one
time to a two-point lead, but Mauze, Craw-
ford and Laird pylled up the score with long
shots which brought a roar of applause from
the crowd of visitors, townspeople, and stu-
dents which packed the gymnasium.

Captain Mauze led his team in scoring, mak-
ing six field goals and two fouls, a total of
14 points. Crawford and Laird each scored
five field goals, Staley one, and Beall one.
Boggs fought like a tiger,at guard, prevent-
ing many a score which seemed inevitable.
Pat Crawford showed his old-time form,
making the spectators gasp as he tossed clean
goals from the center of the floor. Laird,
in his first year of college basket-ball, did
spectacular work at forward. Unfortunately,
personal fouls took him out of the game in
the second half. Beall, Staley, Mallery, and
Davis, all played a splendid game. Looks
like this Wildcat basketees are champion-
ship stuff!

For Charlotte, Moore led the scoring, get-
ting 14 points out of the visitors’ 32, The
“Y” team played a fast, clean game, the kind
any sportman would enjoy. The line-up:
DAVIDSON (38) CHARLOTTE (32)

Laird (10)......... Ricks Moore (14)
Staley (2).......... OS AGG Marsh (6)
Mauze (OV) sneer 6 OR aihaiant Yates (8)
Crawford (10)..... RiiGiesasieer Smith (4)

Boggs (0).../.....L. G...Cunningham (0)

Substitutes—Beall (2) for Staley, Mallery

“CONCORD GAME -:...-
dha night Conch

ngade flying trip to c
proceeded to usher i
with a (tthiling yi
ge “YY teage yf oncord

of the fas teams -inthe-State:- More

over the fast Con-

is well-nigh ‘unbeatable! on; their:ismall court.| 5

more -brilliant’7 games7> Nevertheless; ithe);
Wildcats were out! there {fighting full 40)
minutes before old Warhoss could lead his

tedm-mates: off: the floor with another, scalp/

full 20-minute period: to. get used to, the
small; court. It seemed almost impossible to
take 4 jshot at the basket before one, of the:
Concord athletes, could. intercept the,, ball.
‘Time; after ,time .a. chance, to ;score, was!
broken up in, this. manner. | When, the half)

.ended,,.. Davidson. was, leading ,by., the slim!

margin of one, point, the score), being 17
to 16.

! keeper

}) tacked

ocr 2 + points-

pa sna squad ; the Capitat=City Ba beruer
ord, -where. they legs“carried"hitn-all_over-the court and

month of February paw missed up many a play, |

than this, ‘they have developed a game which) gaokcegnfnedohtitvelf th \paitdi

On this particular night: the) fast Concordites! close shot all eventitig. »“Pat' looped thie’agate
excelled all) past’ pérformances iwith theif) through the hoop three times and made him-
brilliant; playing. ut! unfortunately for them,) se1p geefut “in! helping tb Hold the Statesthen
theie: opporients were putting mpi an even! ¢i(théee field! goala! fal! Anil) oh borg

| team, But! Wad losély Covered throughout the
| mele.

i

d iti

| guard position. {

at their belts. { poly otfh oak fl spaege \é Iyabyews went ramped Ae t

‘The first half began witha rush. Neither! bev (21) poral et i) ay

side was able to secure any decided advan-' Bea Me ty ttooe br Pant aiall iets Vray (9) mr es \ a. |
4 7 ; | Laird. (2)... Beebyeccasen Curtis (4)

fee: LEwanyi tienes Piekidean. masked «Aha Mae (115 20) olin! ‘Taber (2) T.

Concord: would) manage to SP i ucote, Crawford (6)... -R. G..... Johnson'(2) || vidson ynext~yeer. Two |

the: hasketiitopydtirtaoke the: Wildcats Mais! sy, icy acon “STE a hath ticle Te aegs ae ‘ i

| for Davis, Mallery for Staley, Dedmond for
| Wray, Duls for Dedmond.

two out of seven.

was par-excellence from]
’s stani point: Eleven” markers \
i hits tame}yover half his |

nd ‘more: thar whole team fr

His lai

P) > wt: ne ‘
ay ee Uw a) eee

1, Boggs- strutted their [s
‘da position - asd: Adoked.1
éspectively.
ite /and’ did
t's Well thatthe 'Parmers failed'ito'get a

' Curtis lodked Tike ‘the Uass of the’ Visiting

Jennette showed up good in’ the

things you! ido.

"Substitutions—Davis for Beall, Staley (2)

Fouls—Mauze, three out of four.’ Curtis,

ant tear beeen oe

Referee: Faul.”
Scorer: Mauze. —

The last half proved too close and: exciting

+

to allow gither. quint a moment's relaxation. |)

‘After 13 minutes of playing, the score-board|:

showed Concord in, the lead by four, points.)
This was the turning, point, howeyer, for
Davidson, At. this, stage, Staley put, the,
game on ice with four quick goals from the!
floor. Laird.and Crawford each contributed!
another goal, and the game Was won, 35-28. |
For, the losers, Long probably put up the!
best, game, although it would be hard to:
pick any ,individua] star, the honors being! ,
very, evenly divided. , McCaskill played, a /

I { A |
entire Davidson team was aboye reproach, |

great, ‘defensive game, The work, of t HI Bi aifol

= "Calleve'Tevieley,’ ;
Watches and Clocks
“Eversharp' Pencils Stationery

Turn in his name

BR ee he dane neenbeneteweesetetneent a6

1! Parker’ Fountain Pens: Dean’s office when re-
Peritants and Pillows’ ~.
Athletic Supplies $1. quested, “
: Bradley Sweaters
10W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler: : 5
DAVIDSON, N.C.) InsM eros wf

it) | te — Oty

and they will not suffer a single defeat this||
season, .if they. exhibit. the same, brand of|'
hasketbaf' in the future, talaga hecurate|
eye for: the basket accounted for 'six ‘field'|:
goals, whilé Staley, with his’ four’ fast 'o es, |
demonstrated his shooting’ ability ‘and future |
possibilities, ‘Crawford’ got! into ‘the’ game |

for the first. time and showed up well. __; it
DAVIDSON (35) CONCORD Y '(28))
Beall (2)........4. R. F......... Wolff (6)!
Laird (1)......... LEH) iy RP SH ASH H0 Dick (6)
Mauze (7).......... Crier Bell (4)
Crawford (4)...... R. G...... McCaskill (0)
Davis (0)..,....... L. G.........Long (12)

Substitutes—Mallory for Beall, Staley (8)
for Mallery, Boggs for Crawford.

For SHOE REPAIRING-See:-
See ee See eee
ov wtp Geta MUNSON ‘Shoei for: Drilhs wre f
{i fool gawisl rossetA of) oder COLL toy
Sport Shoes on display every We nes My to
Commissary... , ite Arak a

nesday at he
gioot tsewe
MILLS SHOE CO. Statesville'N.

rtool

ny
ss

%
C.

Bras

Fouls—Mauze, three out of four. Long,
four out of seven.
Referee: Faul.

Scorer: Boushee.

. N.C. STATE GAME

Chalk up another victory for Captain
Warhoss Mauze and his merry band of
Fighting Devils! Monday night before a
large crowd the Wildcats hung up their
fourth straight victory of the season in a
40-minute» round of caging exihibition, this
time by a 21-8 count. N. C. State playing
the loser’s role, put up a hard fight but
failed in their effort to stop the Red and
Black floor men,

The features of the game were the fast
floor work and close guarding of. both teams.
The fracas started with a rush and for the
first eight minutes both fives put up a brand
of the court game such as had never been
seen before in the alumni gym. Neither
side could score. Both teams played in the
same fashion—fast, snappy passing down the
floor, a miss at the basket, and then a
fighting five-man defense.

Pat Crawford finally cranked the scoring
machine with a dandy long shot and a mom-
ent later Captain Warhoss threw her into
high with another field goal. Crawford’s
second counter and Warhoss’ foul shot
brought the local machine to the seventh
mile-post, but someone Stepped on the wrong
pedal and the flivver coasted for the re-
mainder of the half. After fifteen minutes
work, Leeper broke State’s goose egg with
a field goal but the half ended 7-4, with the
Wildcats on the long end of the count. — |

State made only one field goal in the sec-
ond half, but it came in the opening moments
of the stanza and the count soon stood 7-6,
Davidson leading. The Fighting Devils then
got busy and for the rest of the evening

Columbia Theological Seminary

JOHN M. WELLS, President
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

-

We wish the Davidson students to note:

I]. That all candidates for the Ministry have a warm wel-
come at Columbia Seminary, but it has special claims upon
those coming from the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia
and Florida.

II. Columbia has a faculty of eight men, each a specialist
in his own department.

III. Columbia is a railway center, with lines branching out
in every direction, enabling the Seminary students to supply
vacant Churches over a very large territory, with a minimum
loss of time from the campus.

IV... The standard requirement for the B.D. Degree of this
Seminary is ds high as any in the United States. At the same
time, it, gives an excellent English Course, with graduating
certificates, to those students who are so recommended by
their Presbyteries.

V. Sufficient financial aid is rendered to all deserving
students through endowed and special scholarship.
Send for latest catalogiie.

HUGH R. MURCHISON; Executive Seoretary

Fee
SSS SERPS R SESE Eee eee eee eee eee eee eee
