DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Dabidsnn Obserher

Today—1 Page

Vol. 1. No. 6

DAVIDSON, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

SELF-DENIAL WEEK
OBSERVED LOCALLY

This week, February 11 to 18, is being ob-
served in all the circles of the Women’s
Auxiliary as a week of self-denial and prayer
for foreign missions. ,

Monday afternoon the special subject for
prayer was the Orient. At the regular
Wednesday night prayer meeting the sub-'
ject chosen was foreign missions, On
Thursday prayer for Africa, was observed |
in all the circles, |

Circle No. 1 had an all-day quilting Thurs- |
day and was joined at 4 p. m. by Circle No. |
4 for prayer service. Circle No. 3 met with |
Miss Maud Vinson. |

Friday afternoon.at the Civic League Hall
there will be a return of the foreign mis-
sion study book, “Sunrise: in Aztec Land.”
Latin-America will be the subject for special
prayer. At this meeting special music, a
recitation, and a pageant entitled ‘‘Mexico’s
Appeal,” will be given. A ‘self-denial offer-
ing is to be made for foreign missions at
this meeting and refreshments will be served
after the meeting. All the women of the
town are cordially invited to attend.

D
CROSSMORE, DEFEATS
DAVIDSON HIGH TEAM

On Tuesday, February 6, the basket-ball
team from Crossmore school trounced the
local high school by the score of 18 to 4.
Crossmore played good basket-ball, and out-
played their opponents at every stage of the
game. Davidson seemed to be off their feet,
and although they fought hard, were de-
cisively beaten. é

The first quarter soon showed the superi-
ority of the visiting team, which rolled up
ten points before Davidson got started. Del-
linger, for Crossmore, scored eight of these
points,

The second quarter was nearly a repetition
of the first. McConnell and Grey, of the
locals, each rung one, but in spite of the
fighting spirit of the Wildkittens, the half
ended with the score 16-4 in Crossmore’s|
favor.

The second half was one of the prettiest
exhibitions of high school basket-ball seen |
here this year. During the third quarter)
neither team scored, this was due to the ex-
cellent guarding of Grey and Thompson for |
the locals, and Taylor and Dellinger, for the |
visitors. |

The last period was as close as the pre-
ceding one, but Dellinger managed to slip |
through the Davidson guards and ring up|
one more goal to his team’s credit. The!
game ended with the score 18-4 in Cross-}
more’s favor. F. Dellinger, the lanky cen- |

| Mary D. Richmond, of Milton. He settled | A train of four cars, painted a battleship
as pastor of Black Walnut Church, in Hali-| gray, each car having a side door, and four
|fax County, Virginia, and during the Civil | small windows near the top, on each side—
| War was chaplain of the 45th North Caro- | many were the conjectures made by the vil-
|lina Regiment, under Col. Henry Morehead | lage “cracker barrel and mackerel kit” popu-
and Gen. Julius Daniel, 1862-65. He was lation, but no one was sure of his guess as to
captured by the Union army at Petersburg,| what was the mission of this strange and

Va., in April, 1865, where he had remained |
with a sick comrade after Appomattox, but |
he was paroled a few weeks later. At the
conclusion of the war Doctor Harding
taught school for seventeen months. Later
he served as pastor at Concord, Milton, the
Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte,
Graham, Augusta, Ky., and Farmville, Va.

Throughout his life, Doctor Harding was’
a devoted lover of books, and a profound
student of theology, philosophy and litera-
ture. He was a steady contributor to church
papers, although these writings have never
been collected and put into more permanent
form, as his friends wish. An address he
delivered at Union Theological Seminary
was printed in pamphlet form by the Phila-
delphia Presbyterian board under the title
of “The Manifestation of Christ to the Be-
liever.” He delivered special lectures before
general or special seminary and college audi-
ences on literay and other subjects.

The funeral services were conducted Sat-
urday evening at 4:30 o'clock from his home '
by Rev. Dr. C. M. Richards, assisted by
Rev. Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Dr. Thos, W.
Lingle. Both Doctor Richards and Doctor
Lingle made brief appreciative remarks
touching the character and life work of the
deceased. The pailbearers were the elder
members of the faculty and from the town,
Messrs. Cranford and Stirewalt.

Surviving are one son, Dr. C, R. Harding,
a member of the faculty of Davidson Col-
lege, and one daughter, Mrs. F. H. Whitaker.
His wife died in April, 1911.

At the funeral there were many friends
and relatives present from Charlotte, Con-
cord, Lenoir, Greensboro, Milton and else-
where. . Many beautiful wreathes from
friends, the faculty, students and the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity*were among the number |
that covered the grave. |

1D.

TOWN NEWS

Dr. W. J. Martin left Monday for a ten-|
days’ trip to New York City on college busi- |

ness.

Mrs, James Shumaker has been quite sick
with malaria for the past two weeks. |

Miss Mary Richards was at home from|‘

Mocksville the last ‘week-end. |

The older residents of Davidson who
remember Miss Lois Neil will be interested

ter of Crossmore, was the outstanding star! to learn that a library has been named in
of the game, scoring twelve of his team’s her honor in Deland, Florida. Miss Neil
points. Dick Grey played well for David-| spent all her childhood and youth in David-
son. |son. She and her mother have been residing

DAVIDSON, 17—TROUTMAN, 2

In a slow game last Friday, the Wild-
kittens defeated the team from Troutman |
high school by a score of 17 to 2. |

The game was slow and uninteresting from
the first, as everything pointed to an easy |
Davidson victory. The local boys showed
some good form in their passing and shoot-|
ing, while the. guarding of Thompson did
much to keep down the scoring of the visi-
tors.

|
|
D. |

DR. E. H. HARDING DIES _

AT HOME OF HIS SON

The many friends of Dr. Ephraim H, |
Harding were grieved to hear of his death |
on Friday of last week.

Doctor Harding was born at Oxford on!
November 3, 1832, the second son of Rev. |
Dr. N. H. Harding, who became pastor of |
the Milton Presbyterian Church in 1836. He |
grew up in Milton and married there, and |

in Florida during recent years.

Mrs. C. R. Harding has been quite sick
with la grippe for a number of days, but is
improving.

Mrs. B. W. Romefelt, of Asheville, spent
last week here with her parents, Dr. and
Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Major and Mrs. Hearn gave a delightful
Valentine party on February 14,

Capt. Sam Black of the Hi team is re-
covering after an operation on his tonsils
last week.

The Book Lover's Club had an. opening
meeting last Wednesday at Mrs. Lingle’s,
Dr, W. T. Grenfell, of Labrador, being the|
principal speaker. |

|

Little John Douglas is confined at his |

hostile train. However, as‘ the awe-struck
mob stood about the train, a long drawn-out,
grating creak was heard and all turned to-
ward it to see a door slide slowly open.
From the attitudes of the members of the
crowd it looked as if they wanted to run
but were uncertain in just what direction.
Fortunately at this moment a tall, lanky
raw-boned youth stood in the open doorway
and one of the bolder ones in the crowd
asking him, with Mid-Victorian deference,
what the mission of the strange train was
he slowly yawned and stretched, then said,
“We come to paint this here station ’o
yourn.” Whereupon a great sigh of relief
went up from the mob and it fell to gestur-
ing and jabbering excitedly.

Then followed the days when many and
varied buckets of paint were brought out
and ‘the “swish-swish” of the brushes could
he heard from morning till night as the
followers of Michael Angelo busily weilded
their brushes. The first coat having been
applied by the painters, signs were brought
from‘the depths of the cars and prominently
displayed, reading “Fresh Paint.” But un-
observants, not noticing this, the second coat
was applied in the form of the overcoat of
a freshman as he leaned against the station,
awaiting an incoming train. Then followed
a fourth and fifth coat and soon the ranks

,of the unfortunates who had unwittingly

leaned against the fresh paint included many
upper-classmen and grave and dignified
members of the faculty. There, were so
many of these that were wearing overcoats
of a sombre hue in front but having backs
of a gaudy yellow that passers-through
thought that Davidson had become a center
of style and the dictators had declared this
to be the latest style of fashionably dressed
gentlemen.

After it all though the station stood out
in its dull surroundings a glistening thing of

|heauty and it seemed to lift its head and
| declare itself .an aristocrat in plebean sur-

roundings. The villagers do no deny it this
pleasure and the whole town is proud of
the freshly painted station.

D.

SOMETHING FOR
NOTHING?

That is evidently what twelve illustrious
seniors thought last Wednesday when they
flocked to the Standard of the Standard
Education Society. Perhaps it was not the
fact that they hoped to receive something
free gratis which drew them, so much as the
one who was to do the giving, For verily,
verily, as Biblical Okey Allison is wont to
say, the company which in the midst of pres-
ent tightness and hard times, has started on
a campaign of generosity acted very wisely
when they sent one of the gentler sex to act
as their representative.

The future educators of the country met
in council and she of the glib tongue did
come among them. Frank Wildman claims
that he thought she was going to give away
pamphlets on how to flunk more students.
After the learned savants had gathered the
very demure young lady proceeded to pre-
sent her plan. Her first announcement was
full of hope for she claimed that she was
going to give each and every one present
there, a ten-volume reference work. Then
indeed was great rejoicing in the group,
which lasted until the wary Twick Bostick,
whose sinister purpose to teach no one Had
ever before been suspected, suspicioning that
there must be some strings tied to the propo-
sition, demanded if he would have to buy
anything. Twick’s forethought evidently
saved the crowd for it is said that Buddy

|home with the measles. |Hines and Johnny Adams were already
|matching to see which would sign first,

.[D.

often returned for visits. He was pastor of |
the Milton Church at three different times.

During his boyhood he was a student of
Caldwell’ Institute; at Hillsboro. For two
years he was-a_ student at Hampden—Sid-
ney College; entering the sophomore class
- $n 1852. He was a member of Zeta chapter
of Bets Theta Pi and represented the Phi
ciety at the 1854 commencement. His alma
upon him the honorary de-
r. of Divinity in 1879,
ng spent three years at
Seminary. He-_was.li-
e Presbytery in April,

dn July of the fol-

34 i!

\JAYBIRDSVILLE STATION
_RECENTLY PAINTED

The little town of Davidson was pursuing
unmolested its usual hum-drum, uneventful,
sleepy course when a stratige and hostile train
came puffing into town, with much snorting
and protesting, and at an hour when no
regular trains run. The fact that anything
so strange as a train coming in at an unusual
hour. was enough to -make the villagers gather
*round, but the strange appearance of the
train hastened the gathering of the curious
all the more, and soon a gapihg crowd had

Then the awful blow fell. That nice little
ten-volume, eighty-five dollar set had, not

NATIONALLY KNOWN ORATORS
(Continued from page 1)

\class is trying to inaugurate the custom of
having the members of the faculty wear the
|cap and gown. Some members of the faculty
|hold high degrees and it is felt that to have
| the faculty wear these symbols of honor will
|add to the impressiveness of the graduating
| ceremonies,

| The Class of ’23 has throughout its col-
|lege course put.on excellent programs in
| whatever of the public exercises it has had
|charge of, and the class can be counted on
|to make the Commencement Exercises a
| splendid climax to its fine list of accomp-
| lishments,

|
D.

| COLORED TROUPE FURNISHES
| (Continued from Page 1)

slavery. Special mention should be made
also of “Couldn’t Hear Nobody Pray,” and
“Ezekiel Saw the Wheel.” ‘

‘The orchestra was at its -best in “Carolina
in the Morning,” which brought a storm of
applause. It was simply jazz run riot. They
also gave several selections from the negro
musical comedy, “Shuffle Along.”
Like a Bubble,” by the former member of
the quintet mentioned above, was one of thejr
best numbers.

It would be hard to pick out any_special
/members of the quintet as being better than
the others. ‘They were all good but the two
extremes were perhaps the best of all. The
bass could go to the“Sub-cellar and the tenor
could get way-tip on top of the house. As
someone put it, “That bass can sing in my
quartet Any time he wants to.”

D.

STUDENT BODY VOTES TO UPHOLD
(Continued from Page 1)

add 25 cents to the regular campus fees to be
used for debating purposes.

At a meeting of the student body on Feb-
|ruary 4, both propositions were presented by
| Prof. A, Currie. He stated that in former
years Davidson College had been known all
over the South for its debating teams, and
{that in Atlanta, especially, it had made the
| reputation of having one of the best, if not
| the best, debating team in the United States.
| He also stated, that although forensic activi-
\ties had suffered a slump in the past few
| years, colleges and schools all over the coun-
try were reviving the debating team an
literary society. :

Davidson has two of the oldest literary
societies ,in the entire South, which have
turned out some of the nation’s leaders in
religious and political circles.
the athletic activities threatened to eclipse
the societies but in the last two years, the
Eus and the Phis have begotten the Pans
and the Metros, and the art of public speak-
ing is daily drilled into the freshmen by a
member of the faculty.

The enthusiastic support given the de-
baters bids well for a series of victories in
the spring, and there is no excuse for lack
of success in the years to come since de-
bating has become a collegg¢. activity, en-
couraged and supported by the faculty and
student body.

D:

DR. GRENFELL’S EXPERIENCES
(Continued from Page 1)

will give them an inexhaustible and nutrit-
ous food supply.

| So great has the reputation of the work
of Doctor Grenfell become that many vol-
unteers come to him every summer from the
colleges and universities of the United
States. These workers pay their own way
and help to care for the greatly increased
| work of the summer months. ‘There was
| one girls’ school which outfitted a motor boat
jand sent a score or more of girls to aid
Doctor Grenfell. Many of the volunteer as-
|sistants are Harvard and Princeton men.

| Doctor Grenfell has had many exciting

“Love is/

At one time],

experiences but only recounted one of them
to the audience. He told of how he fell into
the Arctic and clambered upon a small cake
of ice, together with two of his dogs. The
only way in which he was able to live was by
stabbing his dogs, clothing himself in their
furs and quenching his thirst by drinking
their blood. Finally, after making an im-
provised flag, he was séen and rescued.

Doctor Grenfell has also had many ex-
periences as an explorer. He says that there
are literally hundreds of miles which have
not yet been explored. He narrated a trip
of his own up an unkonwn river and told
of the many interesting things which he saw.
The principal-discovery was a waterfall sev-
eral times as high as Niagara. Doctor Gren-
fell is now working on a geodetic survey
for the British government.

Before starting his lecture proper, Doctor
Grenfell, who is a British subject, expressed
great regret that the United States failed to
join the League of Nations, which had its
conception in the mind of our President. He
said that it was the hope of the British
nation, and indeed of the whole world, that
this nation would soon see its way clear to
join the league and so insure the peace of
the world.

Doctor Grenfell was introduced by Doctor
Lingle, who paid a graceful tribute to the
work of this great missionary, explorer,
author, sea captain and scientist. In the last
few years Doctor Grenfell has received
great recognition and honor from various
governments and universities. He was ap-
pointed as a member of the Order of Saint
Michael and Saint George by the King of
England. He received the only honorary
M. D. ever granted by Oxford. He is a
member of all the important scientific soci-
eties of two continents and is the holder of
many honorary degrees. While here he auto-
graphed several of his own books which are
in the college library.

VICTROLAS

~New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home
Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

PUBLIC SALES

We have purchased 122,000 pair U.
S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 514
to 12 which was the entire surplus
stock of one of the largest U. S.
Government shoe contractors.

This shoe is guaranteed one hundred
per cent solid leather, color dark tan,
bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof.
The actual value of this shoe is $6.00.
Owing to this tremendous buy we can
offer same to the public at $2.95.

Send correct size. Pay postman on
delivery or send money order. If
shoes are not as represented we will
cheerfully refund your money
promptly upon request.

National Bay State
Shoe Company

296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N. Y.
sesessesensasesseseseseesestss

essssssscescssoonscaes

a string, but a big healthy cable, attached to|

it. After Twick’s question, the lady calmly |

for glibness, that each one who received the
set would have to sign up to purchase a semi-
annual supplement which was being sold at
the heart-rendingly low price of only forty-
nine dollars.

Even after this blow had passed and Dun-
bar Ogden had been restored to conscious-
ness after hitting the floor for a count of
ten, these future flunkers came very near

considerateness of one, the bell-ringer, were

-| they saved from financiat disaster.

stated, in a line which equalled Ikey Morris's |

giving in to her line and only through the

7 ‘

DAR Ce tee a

Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”

Electrik Maid Bake Shop

MOORESVILLE,

weet

Si tae
