THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923 : ?

ia as he is an athlete of world renown,
in addition to being a preacher. He was a
| star player on the Chicago Nationals in the
eighties and nineties, his call to the ministry
coming when he was still young. Since his
first day of preaching he has led untold mul-
i titudes to Christ.

GOOD PROGRAM HELD BY

C. E. TRAINING CLASS
| At the regular meeting of the C. KE. Train-
{ing Class last Sunday afternoon an interest-
ling program led by W. FE. Milton was given.

The above is an exact representation of the Davidson College Faculty in the days that “used to be,” and furnishes a.
contrast with the present faculty, and acomparison of the growth made by the college since that time, as shown by

the size of its corps of instructors.

“Tt

place to do big things.’—Billy Sunday.

S. & W.
CAFETERIAS

Good Home Caoking and
Courteous Service
Is Our Specialty

is not necessary to be in a big

Charlotte Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

EDUCATION MAKES
THE WORLD A
BETTER PLACE

TO LIVE IN---

SO DOES LIFE
INSURANCE

SOUTHERN LIFE
AND TRUST CO.

GREENSBORO, N. C.

A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mar.

Here and There

1862—\Maj. Thomas Wooten, a Confed-
erate veteran who served in Gen-
eral Lane's brigade of the Eight-
eenth North Carolina regiment in
the Civil War, died at his home in
Camden, S.C. on the morning of
the 26th of November.

He was 80
years old and is survived by six

+

children,

1g67—Key. J. bh. Purcell, pastor of the St.
Andrew's Presbyterian Church, at
Wilmington, N. C.,
his congregation that he has ac-
cepted the office of executive sec-
retary in the men’s work in the
Southern Presbyterian Church.

announced to

During the past week-end several
-alumni and old Davidson students were
present on the campus. Among them
were P, O, Bethea, ’22; G, E. Miley,
R. L. McLeod, ’23; A. H. Mebane, ex-'25;
S. M. Davis, ’23; J. M. Adams, ’23; B. M.
Hamer, '22; W. B Jennings, ex-'26; R. H.|
Smith,

950:

We were not able to get the names of
all the alumni and old men at the Da-
vidson-Trinity game, in Charlotte, on
Thanksgiving Day, but it was possible to

jot down the following names in the
rush: J. E. Welson, ex-’24; J. A. Me-
Crary, '22; T. N. Hunter, ex-’25; H. F.
Northrop, '23; J. Spratt Moore, ex-'24;

R. L. Black, '22; and D. R. LaFar, ’22.

Dr. E. F. Shewmake recently presented to
‘the Library a set of books entitled The His-
jtory of the University of Virginia. Philip
| Alexander Bruce, the author, has given in
| this five-volume set not only a history of the ,

University, but he has also given a very
{complete account of Thomas Jefferson’s ac-
| tivities as an educational reformer and pre- |
| moter of public instruction. He gave many :
jinteresting facts about the distinguished |
jalumni. Two of the most prominent of these |
| were Edgar Allen Poe and ex-Presiflent Wil- |
| son. Among the well-known instructors of |
this school were Gildersleeve, the Hellenist ; |
Sylvester, the Mathematician, and Rogers, the |
founder of Boston Tech. Both the unique |
plan of electing studies and the honor sys-

BILLY SUNDAY EVANGELIST
TO SPEAK IN CHARLOTE
“Billy Sunday is almost certain to be here
at least onee during his Charlotte revival, '
said Mr. Williams, secretary of the Davidson
College Y. M. C. A,,
cerning the probability of Mr. Sunday com-
ing to Davidson,
quest, asking for a visit from Billy Sunday,
and believe that he will come to Davidson

for two addresses, if not more.” :
Mr. Williams gave some further facts con-

when questioned con-

“LT have sent in our re-

nected with the evangelistic campaign which
will start on the 28th of December, that date
marking the arrival of Mr. Sunday and his
staff at Charlotte. A large tabernacle such
as is usually built wherever a Billy Sunday
revival is conducted, will be erected in Char-
lotte at the corner of Third and Tryon
streets. It will hold five or six thousand
people, providing room for all visitors that
are expected from surrounding towns.

It is not known who will conduct the sing-
ing, as Mr. Rodcheaver, Mr. Sunday’s leader
on most of his tours, is at present in Eu-
However, the public is assured that
there will be splendid music in addition to the

rope.

!sermons which have made the name of Billy

Sunday famous.
The combined Protestant Churches are
sponsoring the great religious revival, and

with Dr. A. S. Johnston in charge of the |

various committees, great headway is being
made in preparation for the meeting. Prayer
meetings are being held now to pray for the
successful course of the revival and the sal-
vation of thousands who are not yet Chris-
tians. Mr.’ F. W. Rabb is the manager for
Mr. Sunday. By his co-operation plans are
being perfected for the greatest religious
awakening this part of the state. has ever
known.

In spite of his sixty years, Billy Sunday
is still endowed with a youthful vigor and
vitality that enables him to deliver the ser-
mons that sink into the hearts of all who
hear him. In the book, Billy Sunday And
JF1is Message, the author says that Billy Sun-
day is a man made from the common clay
from which we were all created, but that he
had never in his life exhibited any show of
hypocrisy or self-conceit. He shows that
Mr. Sunday has led thousand to Christ by
a sheer force of dynamic personality plus an
appeal to the noblest emotions of man. In

{his private life Billy Sunday is an ideal

tem were well discussed. The author has in- | Christian, shunning all the unclean things of
deed produced a mirror of the inteflectual life, and being satisfied only with the noblest
and academic life of the South during the|and purest. ad

most pregnant periods of American history.

Mr. Sunday appeals to college men espe- |

{were heard from a deputation which went

First, after the opening devotions, there was
a short: business session in which reports

the week before to Shearer Chapel to the
C. KE. Society there. “The deputation was
composed of I. P. O'Connor, W. H. Lynch,
and R. G. Wilson, They reported a_ fine
prospeet for a live society at Shearer if the
young people can be thoroughly interested !
and put to work, Ernest Milton then took |
charge of the meeting and called on several |
of the members to give talks on different |
subjects such as they might be asked to dis- |
cuss while on a deputation. Those called on |
had had no time at all for preparation, but
all made splendid talks.

First, L.
dled in fine shape the need of co-operation in |
(7 ID, Next, W. W. Purdy, presi-
dent of the class, gave some good suggestions
aC. E. society can improve its |
R. B. Parker then discussed sev- |

L.. Dick was called on, who han- !
societies.

as to how
programs,
eral ways in which members can be induced
to take an active part in C. 1. work, B. U,
Ratchford was the last speaker. Tle men-
tioned a few ways to get the different com-
After a short
criticism by the leader and a few members,
he meeting was closed with the Mizpah bene-
diction,

mittces of a society to work,

In the lexicon of youth,
which Fate reserves for a
bright manhood, there’s just
one word to sum up the col-
lege student’s idea of dress!

Ease!

Hence the success of our
young men’s Fall and Win-
ter suits. Rather full backs
with perfectly soft fronts.
Trousers fairly wide. Good
selection from $35.00.

MELLON'S

VICTROLAS

New Records Weekly —
VICTOR ANv BRUNSWICK

GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES
AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS

PLAYER PIANO ROLLS

SHEET MUSIC

Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Ine.

CHARLOTTE

‘Fires occur in American homes at the rate of 359
each 24 hours---a fresh outbreak every four minutes.
At least three of every four need not start, for they are
due to carelessness and ignorance,---both correctible.”

The Independence Trust Company
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. ('13) :
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

a.

