aa

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

The ‘DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

@

~ Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill’

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

—s

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F, DN ABR PODS occas OD000 Editor-in-Chiet H. H. SMITH........... ++++.Forum Editor
L. D, ELKINS.. . First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN.. :;+,Campus Editor
W. M. HES Second Managing Editor D, H. OGDEN.. M A. itor
R. R, JONES. BSL ahi eh itor W. ‘Tt. ELLIOT Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE Athletic Editor H. M. MORRIS. iterary Editor
C. F. WILDMAN.............Alumni tor W. Z. BRADFORD... .-Press Editor
: WwW. M. C GUD GOBER OUL - Exchange Editor
PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD................4+ Manager fr, GALLOWAY.......4 Assistant Manager
Assis: hiss
SMITH. C. F. BARRINGTON, MINTER, J.
APPL EBY, J. M. McINTOSH, _CLAU U be R. \ICHFORD, “RB. Vv. iD.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER......... ... Business Manager
R, L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. . . WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE...........064 Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCU lien Ura aity Office Assistant a Js ROSCH AUD GUIOOOG Advertising. Copy
"CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN....... «Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....- Asst. Circulation Myr.
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres. McILW. panty i M. PRICE, RT

SMITH, R. Hi Vice-Pres. McIVER, SHARPE, W. H.

BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas. MAUZE, G. Ww WALTHALL, D. B

ALLISON, O. j. MOFFETT, A, N. WHARTON, D. B.

CALHOUN, M. P. MOORE, Ww. in WILDMAN, A. C.

EARNEST, J. R. PATTON, J. H. WHITE, H. M.

GALLOWAY, W. F. POMEROY, W. L. WILLIAMS, J. M.

LAKE, J. A. PRICE, H. B.

On account of the exams which will soon be here, it will be necessary
to omit two issues of THE Davipsontan. While the staff would like, if
possible, to publish both these issues, there is so very little news to be had
during exams, and so much more concentrated and continuous work required
of most of the members of the staff and reporters that it seems best to omit
these issues.

D:

The actions of the Court of Control these past few weeks certainly show
that they mean business. Never in its whole history did hazing do as much
toward cutting out jibing and improving conditions among the freshmen as
this court is doing. Their stand is one that should be admired by all of us,
and the attention they are giving this problem appears to be the means of
settling it in the best possible way.

D.

Exams mean a good deal to us. They count one-third of our grade for
the term. The schedule that the faculty has arranged gives practically every-
one a chance to have enough tinte to prepare their exams well. The hardship
that must necessarily be placed upon some with so many subjects to be taken
should only be an incentive to them to work the harder. This term is a good
one to begin lowering the number of failures which has run so high lately.

D.
A NOTE OF SADNESS
VERY man at Davidson has heard with the deepest feelings of sorrow
and sympathy of the recent bereavement of our ‘fellow student, J. M.
Polk. Especially was this tragic news of the death of both his parents a

shock to those of us who were here last year and heard with so much interest |
and pleasure the sermon that his father preached the Sunday that he was

here visiting his son, and the other talks that he made to groups of the students
on that day. In these columns we would like to express for the whole student
body, the sympathy that we all feel’for the sufferer, and our earnest hope that
he may again take his place among us and allow us to bear with him this mis-
fortune.

D.
THE CAMPUS

ATELY we have been getting more and more careless in our attitude
toward. keeping the campus looking as it should. Davidson has been
widely known because of the beautiful campus that she has, and the spring
is the time when this beauty is most pronounced. Possibly with Chambers in
ashes and the earth torn up around the two new dormitories, some of us are
prone to be less interested in.the appearance of the rest of the campus, and be
content to complain about how bad these things make it look. Now is the
very time, however when all should take just the opposite position and because

of these blemishes, we should strive to make everything else look better.

The thing that perhaps contributes most to a pretty campus is the grass
and with it the trees. In both of these particulars, we are very fortunate at
Davidson, Our trees are arranged quite artistically, and the grass that grows
here has been and could be extremely pretty. We, ourselves, are doing more
than anybody to keep it from growing as it should. Four years ago when the
present seniors came to Davidson, a great deal more thought was given the
grass, and hardly any of the short cuts which now seem so necessary to us
were used at all. No one suffered from the lack of these, however, and the
campus was much improved without them.

Recently we have all been requested to give some attention to this matter,
and the freshmen have been required by the Court of Control to observe the
rules which all of us should live up to. Posters, also, have been put up to
remind us of what we are doing, whenever we might carelessly or uncon-|
sciously start across a particularly exposed plot of grass. With all these facts |
in mind, can’t all of us, not the freshmen only, stick to the old and new walks |
which are certainly more numerous than ever before, and lead in every ditec- |

‘tion that we can possibly want to go, thus saving the grass from the aaniy |?
ugly blemishes that are now constantly appearing on it, and keeping our |
enn as Pretty as possible. i

Stop—Think and Study

It has been decreed by the powers that
be that our vast amount of ignorance shall
be brought to the forefront starting Saturday
a.m. Would that it were not so but alas it
is. Our exams*are upon us and most of us
are unprepared for them. Some are dis-
couraged and are ready to give up the ship.
Fellows, it’s not too late to buckle down and
pass our work, It makes one feel pretty bad
to glance through the big record book in the
Registrar's office and see the records of the
failures there. When we look at the record
of our four years in college written there in
black and white and stop and think that that
is what we will be remembered by when we
have left these halls, it makes us sad to find
how we have wasted these valuable years of
our youth. How much would we Sentors
give to erase some of those disreputable
marks from our record. It is too late for us
to do that now.

It is not too late for you Junior, Sophs,
and Freshmen to write records for your-
selves that you can be proud of when’ you
leave this college. It will only be a matter
of a few years before we will be forgotten
on this campus, even the faculty will have
only dim recollections of us. When anyone
writes back here for our record they will
turn to the thumb-marked pages of the old
record book and see by many of our names
“passed by re-examination.”

Think about these things when You are
getting ready for your examinations and try
al the harder, knowing that you are making
a record that will stand for or against you
as long as the college lasts.

LOOKINGs AHEAD,

Keep Off the Grass!

Doctor Martin has made the request that

~ students refrain from walking on the grass

and from making new paths across the cam-
pus in various places. In accordance with
this request the Court of Control has issued
orders that no Freshman be allowed to walk
on the grass at any time, and have requested
that the rest of the student body co-operate
with them in this respect.

These resolutions are very well, but there
is one thing that the Court of Control has
overlooked, ‘That thing is the R.O.T. C. The
R. O. T. C. drill and exercises are slowly but
surely treading down every blade of grass
on the most beautiftiil part of the campus.
During the winter months, the drill areas are
completely barren and during the summer
the growth is so slow and the appearance is
so ragged as to be noticed by a mere passer-
hy. For several years Davidson has_pos-
sessed one of the most beautiful campuses
in North Carolina. None can deny that it is
heing terribly mutilated and parts ‘of it are
even being destroyéd. Can the alumni, the
faculty, the student body, or any who are
interested in Davidson College, stand idly
yy and see the destruction of so cherished
spot?

On the other hand, we would not have
the R. O. T. C. driven from the campus re-
gardless of the suitability of other areas, but
we see no reason why a portion of the golf
links could not be used for this purpose.
Even the athletic field at certain seasons of
the year could be used with little or no dam-
age to itself, certainly providing a better
drill area than that now in use. Even if
both these two places prove inadequate, do
the benefits derived from the R. O. T. C
merit the destruction of our beautiful
campus, or should a field be provided for
drilling purposes ?

HALT.

D.

If the day looks kinder gloomy
And your chances kinder slim,
If the situation’s puzzling
And the prospects awful grim;
And perplexities keep pressing
Till all hope is nearly gone, ~
Just bristle up and grit your teeth
And keep on keeping on.—Exchange.

“Two negroes, Sam and Rastus, thought
their boss was keeping them past quitting

time, so they decided to buy a watch to-
gether. Sam was agreed upon to be the

timekeeper, neither negro, however, could
tell the time, but they were too proud to let
each other know this fact. The next after-
noon Rastus said to Sam:

“Say, niggah, wot time am it?’

Sam pulling out the watch and thrusting
it into Rastus’ face, said: “Dere it am.”

Rastus looked at the watch doubtfully,
| scratched his head and said: “Darn if it

in’t.”—Black and Blue Jay.

Hymn—“I wanta dance the worst way.”
Hur—“Well, we can go home.”—Log.

ww
EXCHANGE

COLUMN

€
Publisher—You say you have written a
book entitled “Why Boys Go to College.”
What do you know about it? You're no
college boy.
Fair Authoress—No,
‘chorus girl.

but I used to be a

Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never to the world has said
As he cracked his dome on the upper bed:
[Ysa Uh sr sdk ih el bal

—Exchange.

The Modern Girl’s Education Is Consid-
ered Finished When She Can Resist a Kiss
Just Long Enough Not to Miss It.—Black
and Blue.

She isn’t very pretty,

But she wears the sort of clothes
So that style and pep and grace and

What she has of beauty shows.

She isn't very witty,
But her drawly sort of voice
And inflection and expression
Make her bits of humor choice.

She isn’t quite a feather,
But she’s just chock full of pep;
And she'll follow close and tender
When you shake a snaky step.

She's tickle as the weather,
But she’s fickle, too in line,
So I love her when I'm with her
For when she’s with me she’s mine.
—Exchange.

Insane Man—"Bring me a piece of. toast.”

Attendant—“What do you want with a
piece of toast?”

Insane Man—*I’m a poached egg and I
want to sit down.”—Bearcat.

pemesiisiat .

“You wish to enter the diplomatic service.
Can you give any proof of discretion?”

“Yes, sir; I once entered a bathroom
when a lady was in the bawth.”

“Yes. What did you do?”
“T said, ‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ and with-
drew.” —Burr.

And when it rains, it rains alike

Upon the just and unjust fellah,
But more upon the just because

The unjust steals the just’s umbrella—
Phoenix.

Marie—‘Tlere’s joke that a Sunday
school teacher told me when we were walk-
ing home from church yesterday.”

Esther—“Be careful now until we get
past these little boys.”’—Gargoyle.

Myself
I have to live with myself, and so
T want to be fit“for myself to know.
I want to be able as the days go by
Always to look myself straight in the eye.
T don’t want to stand with the stting sun,
And hate myself for the things I’ve done.

I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf

A lot of secrets about myself,

And fool myself as I come and go

Into thinking that nobody else will know
What kind of a man Tam. —

I don’t want to dress myself up in sham.

I want to go out with my head erect,

I want to deserve all men’s respect ;

And here in the struggle for fame and pelf,
T want to be able to like myself.

I don’t want to look at myself and“know,
That I’m a bluff and bluster and show.

I never can hide myself from me.

I see what others may never see.

I know what others may never know

I never can fool myself, and so

Whatever happens I want to be

Self-respecting and conscience free.
—Spectator.

“What'll I send me brudder fer Christ-
mus ?”:
“Send him a pair o’ socks.”
“Naw, ’e’s got a pair o’ socks.’ ‘oaLog,”

Co-Ed—Say, I'd like to try that suit on in
the window.
| Clerk—Sorry, but you'll have to use the,
| dressing room.

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

Davidson Wins From Washing-
ton and

Davidson opened her 1918 season by win-
ning from Washington and Lee on their
home floor Friday night. The-final score
was Davidson 33, W. and L. 20. The Gen-
érals were expecting,a rather easy time, but
the Wildcats led by Hengeveld and King,
were too much for them. For such a defeat
on their home floor, W. and L. has no abili
to offer—the visitors just outplayed them.

No news was received from the V. M. I.
and B. M. I. games’ in time for publication,
but we are expecting the team to “keep up
the good work.”

Two Carloads of Coal Will Be
Secured

Despite all rumors to the contrary, there
will be no holidays for the .Davidson stu-
dents on account of scarcity of coal. Mr.
Jackson, when interviewed, blew up all hopes
by smiling and reading the following state-
ment from Clinchfield Fuel Company :

“We hope to get you out another car of
coal by tomorrow (January 18) or Saturday
at the outside, and it should reach you in
ample time for your requirements. We will
get out another car by the 24th at the out-
side, if something very serious does not
happen.”

Of course, with railroad traffic demoral-
ized, it is not certain when the car will reach
here, but alas! there is at least three week’s
supply on hand in the college bins, It has
been decided to discontinue heating the gym-
nasium as this is not absolutely necessary.

The outlook for the town is not so bright.

: There is very little coal in the yards and a

great many unfilled orders on the books.
Coal is being sold only in half ton lots or
less, as there is no certainty as to when
the next shipment will be here. The town
people are urged to co-operate with the
local dealers in every way.

D.
S. FAISON TO CAPTAIN
(Continued from Page 1)

‘Lias has developed into a powerful fight-
ing Wildcat. His grim doggedness on the
defense has been one of brightest spots in
the Wildcat game. Nothing more than his
fierce tackling and driving offense could be
responsible for the outcome of the V. P. I.
game of the present season.

Under the generalship of Faison the Wiid-
cats should fight a winning fight. The team
of 1923 should retrieve all lost ground, con-
quer new territory and make football history
‘for D.C, 2

i.

PERAEMEES toe Te
COACH HENGEVELD GROOMS
(Continued from Page 1)
form, but on the whole were not up to form,
the close score making it interesting for the
spectators. DeArmon, Elkins and McCon-
nell showed up well for the scrubs and gave
the regulars a hot battle for about 30
minutes. The ball was kept in scrub terri-
tory during the majority of the contest.

The schedule, while not a long one, will
tax the ability of the squad. The big game
of the season is the Trinity game in Char-
lotte on the 6th of February. Last year
after being nosed out at Durham on the
Methodist’s home floor, the Wildcats car-
ried off honors playing on a neutral floor in
Charlotte. Last year, in revenge for the
foothall defeat at the hands of the Old Gold
and Black, the Wildcats won every other
athletic contest with Wake Forest. This
season the tie rankles in the minds of the
Wildcats and they are out to repeat last
year’s performance..

Rumor had it that Heckman would not play
this year, but he played against William and
Mary and his close guarding accounted in
large measure for the Baptist’s victory.
Heckman’s presence on the basketball floor,
as on the gridiron, multiplies the strength of
the team and Wake Forest will have a hard
team to beat.

The Tar Heels once more steer clear of
the Wildcat’s claws. Because of their re-
fusal to play on a neutral floor or-on the
home and home plan no terms could be
agreed upon. The Carolinians have a strong
team this year, but it is hardly likely that
they will repeat their_last season’s victory at
the Southern tournament,

N. C. State is another formidable oppd-
nent. Last season the Wildcats nosed out
|two victories by scant margins. The State
games this year loom up as among the
|hardest.. The Elonites also give the David-
[son team a scrap, The game on their floor
| will be a hard one to cop.

As matters stand now, the Wildcats are
|Sstartin gon their greatest season backed by
|500 men who believe they can and will win.
