6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

Davidson Professor Trav-
els Through Romance
Countries of Old

~ World

Dr. W. R. Grey, Vice-President of
The College, Accompanied by
Mrs. Grey Tours Europe

Dr. W. R. Grey, professor of Latin
at Davidson College, has returned from
a trip to Europe, embracing an itiner-
ary of Great Britain, and several con-
tinental countries. During his stay of

nearly four and a half months in Eu- .

rope, Dr. Grey spent the major portion
of his time at Rome and several other
points in Italy, where he was engaged
in active ‘research work in the Latin
language and literature. He arrived in
the United States the first week of
September, and is now back at this in-
stitution where he will continue as
head of the Latin department.

Dr. Grey has many interesting inci-
dents to relate concerning his trip
through this section of Europe which
is rich in historical association and |
relics of the past. Although engaged |

in study most of the time, he made |

visits to nearly all the most interesting |
cities and towns in Italy. He was join- |
ed by Mrs. Grey in Rome, on the 10th |
of July, and after his work was finish-
ed at Rome, both he and Mrs. Grey
enjoyed several weeks of sightseeing in |
Switzerland, France and England. |

“One of the most interesting inci |
dents of my stay in Italy,” said Dr.
Grey, ‘was in the city of Pompeii, and
the excavations that have been going
on there for over a hundred years.” He
said that the excavations that have dis- |
closed so much of this remarkable an-
cient city are now in progress; about.
three-fifths of the city having been
excavated. The city was covered to a
depth of 20 feet by volcanic ashes, not
lava, which is the supposition of most
people. Dr, Grey added that this city, |
near the ever-smouldering Vesuvius,
was the home of 20,000 people at the |
time of its destruction (in 79 A. D.),!
about 2,000 of whom were killed.

He also told of trips to Naples, the’
Alpine mountains, the Sabian moun-
tains, where stand the remains of
Horace’s summer home, and other
places.. One place, Paestum, is the site
of three Greek temples, of which only
the columns remain, but still show the |
artistry of the earlier settlers. Astia,
another place visited by Dr.Grey, was |
the seaport of Rome, when the Eternal
City was in its glory, The Forum and |
the’ Coliseum “were among the most
wonderful ruins in Rome,” remarke: |
Dr. Grey. However, they do not sur- |
pass the new modern monument to
King Viétor Emmanuel, which cun- |
sumed 20 years in the building and is
one of the most beautiful structures in
the world. It stands on the hill for-
merly occupied by the old Roman tem- |
ple to Juno.” Venice, Milan, Bologna. |
and Pisa, were visited in turn by Ir. |
and Mrs, Grey on their return trip,
Venice, with its beautiful buildings and
the leaning tower at Pisa, were objects
of great interest.

On the return journey, Dr. and Mrs.
Grey spent a short while in Switzer- |
land and three weeks in Paris. From)
thence they went to England, where |
some time was spent in London and the |
Stratford country that was the home|
of Shakespare. |

Dr. Grey said that as a whole the’
political situation in Italy seems to je |
good since Mussolini has taken the
reins of government. “He is not so}
popular among the lower laboring
classes as he has done much to dispell |

the strikes and riots that were so com-|ent Senior and Junior classes.

mon fora while.”” He remarked on the

'the Christan Endeavor Expert Class | from minor ailments.

‘year,

jing last Sunday made a short and

jcome men that not only the Church,) make good as an athlete.
‘but Christ, will be glad to own as His.”’| field and Buck, from the Sc yphomore

complish much more this year, sitice | The camp was well cared for, being
so much new material is at hand. ‘much better than the one held the sum-
At the first meeting of the class each mer before. The general health was
old man told just what the class: last much better than heretofore. None of
year meant to him, Several other talks the Davidson representation was sick
tended to show the new men just what, except for two or three who suffered
Captain. Wain-
of Davidson College would really mean) bertz, who commands the special arms
to them if they went into the work company and who is a recent graduate
with heart and soul. The keynote of of Fort Benjamin special arms school,
‘the discussion of the evening was, "“You spoke very highly of the Davidson
will certainly get out of Christian En- men.
deavor much more than you ever put J. A. “Fats” Joyner was the only one
into it. However, the amount that you from Davidson that attended the Civil-
get out-of the class will entirely de- ians’ Military Training Camp. He took
pend on the amount that you put into | the Blue course which corresponds to
the class.” the Senior course of R. O. T. C. He
The class is much pleased with the was quite the “big noise” in all military
success of the numerous campaigns in! activities, acting as company command-
which she was engaged during the past er sometimes; as major of the battalion
Not only did the members in- once, and as a platoon officer the rest
crease their knowledge of Christian) of the time. While Joyner did not
Endeavor work but they were able to! show up so well in the gallery practice
reach out and reinforce many societies | here last winter he covered himself
in North Carolina, enabling them to go! with both mud and glory at the C. M.
over the top. /T. camp, having no trouble in qualify-
As for the coming year the class ing as an expert rifleman.
hopes to uphold the name which was) Joyner made an easy second place on
made for her last year, and to fight the the C. M. T. camp team representing
battles of today with a determination to the Fourth Corps area and as a result
win, and to make this year a record-' of this he was discharged two days
breaker, Although last year was such ahead of camp in order to get to Camp
a fine year, both as to the work on the | Perry, O., for the opening of the com-
campus and in other places which called | petition shooting. He will remain at
on the class for reinforcement, the Ex-/ Camp Perry until the close of the com-
pert Class-intends to go “over the top” | petition, September 25th. _ :
in many campaigns for Christian En-. “Fats” was discharged from the C.
deavor this year, M. T. camp, recommended for the
: \certificate of a second lieutenant and,
MINISTERIAL BAND RENEWS (to be commissioned as such as soon as
ACTIVITIES he reaches the required age.

Db. B. Walthall, president of the RED AND BLACK MACHINE
Ministerial Band, at its opening meet-
pointed talk, welcoming back the old (Continued from page 1)
members, and throwing wide the doors guards, who will have to bear the
to the Freshman members of the band, brunt of _the line rushes, will be
He urged upon his hearers more sin- che sen trom White, McCauley,
cerity and pointed out the fact that the,, Long, Smith, and Ford, while Briggs
ministerial students hold an important 18 giving: Fields a struggle for the
place in molding the religious atmos- pivot position,
phere of the campus. _The flanks are well taken care of,

Lee McLean pointed out what Captain ’Lias Faison, Nappy Davis,
should be the proper relation of the and Dan Mallory are all back trom
ministerial students among themselves. last year’s varsity, and Baker, cap-
He said the spirit of Christ, the spirit tain of last year’s Freshman eleven

‘of brotherly love should dominate the looks good for a couple of varsity

members of a band who are preparing games this year.
themselves for full-time Christian In the backfield things are round-
service, ing into Al shape. “Gig”? Shepard,
Hayden Hollingsworth gave an in- conqueror of Carolina, way back
spiring address on the relation of the yonder in ’20 is plunging through the
Ministerial Band to the campus and its scrubs like a torpedo, while Hunt,
immediate surroundings. Fle spoke of DeArmond, and Hendrix, are all
the ideals that ministerial candidates! hack at their old positions. Added
should set up, and pointed out that hav-| with these, Flake Laird and Wick
ing ideals and living up to them are [lack, of lasf year’s Freshman team,
two separate and entirely different are showing up well as back-field
things. men. Laird, although his work

‘A. M, Martin was the last speaker on! stood out in three varsity battles’

the program. He outlined in an inter-| last Fall, did not earn a letter, he is

,esting manner the relation of the Min-* hound to get into most of the games

isterial Band to the Church. In.part this Fall, His punting will be de-
he said; pended upon along with Shepard’s

“The Church back home is Idoking | to keep the pigskin out of the Wild-
to us as the ministers of tomorrow. The} cat’s back yard. Wick Black is re-
entire Church is expecting of us that) ceiving much comment: for his line
we develop into men able to take the plunging in recent scrimmages.
places of the ministers of today. It is} Built short and hard as a nail, Wick
our duty to prepare ourselves to be-| is made of the stuff that it takes to
Sappen-

A large number of new men were) class, are showing up in good form.
present who received a cordial welcome \Buck’s open field runs are attracting
to the band. They will be received in’ attention of the coaches.

a welcome feed to be held Saturday) Whether or not the eleven which
night after the show. twill be made up of selections’ from
; jthe above named men will be suc-
WILDCATS WIN HONORS icessful, no one will say. at this time.
AT MILITARY CAMPS The coaches are working out what

ee they hope to have; a speedy ma-

Ten boys represented Davidson Col- chine, built light but fast moving.
lege last summer at the R. O. T. C./When the first team starts play
camp held at Camp McClellan, near against Elon Saturday, the idea of
Anniston, Ala. The representation heating Elon so many tens of points
was evenly divided between the pres-| will not be the uppermost in the stu-
dents mind, The latter will have
All of the Davidson men had target | their eyes turned towards the open-

number of American tourists that were | practice with special arms and all of | ing of a new era in Davidson’s ath-
met in-the various countries of urope.|them succeedéd in qualifying. Three! letic history. Richardson Field will
According to Dr, Grey’s remarks, u-|of the ten took machine gun work andi.get its first baptism of athletic fire.

ropenan traveling seems to have been | qualified as experts.

revived to where it was before the) The Davidson rifle team showed up
World War. A _ very pleasant trip considerably better than the year be-
home is reported by both Dr. and Mrs. | fore, rating better than the universities

Grey. |against which they competed. They
\defeated State College by five places,
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR |making up for the defeat that David-

|COMMENCES ACTIVITY

The Christian Endeavor Expert
class of Davidson College has armed
itself with many new recruits, along

with the old men who. have re-enrlisted

in_the war-to make Christian Endeavor
‘go over the top this year. The class
was highly successful in its)many cam-
paigns last year, and is hoping to, ac-

son suffered at their hands in the gal-
lery practice last winter.

All the men from Davidson qualified
in the physical test and captured one
first place and other places in other
fvents which put Davidson ahead in
the university camp. As-prize for the
leading college Davidson’ was awarded
a cup which is given’ to the college
making the best record each year.

|This, along with the showing of
Monk Younger’s first Wildcat team,
will be watched with interest.
Whether the season will be success-
ful or otherwise, no one can say,
but hopes are running high. The
players are showing the old spirit
that our forerunners installed on the
campus. The new coach has the
ability. Success is due.
pected by both students and alumni.
Time can: only answer the many
queries.

Manager Bradford is to be con-
gratulated upon the schedule that he
has drawn up for the 1923 Davidson
football varsity. The program calls

It is ex-|

for ten games. Of these the Clem-

son and Citadel gridiron battles will

be renewed after a lapse of time.
'The Georgia Tech game is missing.

Other changes, minor ones, are al-

so noted on the card.

_As is the custom, Elon comes to
Davidson for the opening battle.
Last year the score ran “down” to
24 to nothing when the 1922 team
got off to a bad start. This year the
Christians seem to be shot to pieces.
Perry of the Elon backfield will not
be seen in the lineup according to ad-
vance information. He was a giant
_of the Elon athletic teams and will
be greatly missed. However, Elon
is depending upon new material and
some promising Freshmen to fill up
the holes. The game with Elon will
be Davidson’s first on the menu. No
walk-away is hoped for as much as
a good showing is expected.

The Wildcats on the week follow-
ing will venture down to Rock Hill,

'S. C., to avenge themselves on P. C.,

for the defeat last year at Clinton.
The South Carolina Presbyterians
have been training hard and appear
to have the idea that they can whip
Davidson again, A large attendance
is expected at Rock Hill for the
game.

V. P. 1. will be met at Blacksburg,

Va., this fall, thus carrying out the
plan of playing on the campus of
jone of the teams every other year.
'As usual, the Gobblers will have a
strong team. The contest will be
in the nature of an attempted re-
venge on the Wildcats by the Vir-
,ginia eleven that was held to a tie
on Sprunt Field last fall. Still more
‘interest will be turned towards the
game because of the fact that’ Coach
Younger Will be sending a team on
ithe V. P. I. field to beat the eleven
that he coached last year.

Citadel comes to Richardson field
for a game on October 13th. The
Bulldogs are also new-comers on
the local card. Their elevens have
been noted for swiftness and canny
ability to put up good fights. The

(game will be the second and last
campus game for Davidson — this
year,

On October 20th, Wake Forest
‘will be met at Wearn Field, Char-
lotte. The mighty Heckmen has
had his day and the Baptists must
find another man to fill his shoes.
Prospects are not so bright for
Wake Forest this fall on the grid-
iron,

Furman will be battled at Colum-
bia, S. C., October 4th, during the
South Carolina fair. Advanced
dope has it that Furman will be
about as strong as ever and the
Wildcats will have a hard battle
against them. It will be “Gig” Shep-
ard’s sole desire to beat the South
Carolina Baptists this year. He
came near doing it last season.

Then comes the N. C. State game
at Charlotte on November 3d. State
has lost several stars through grad-

uation and must build over a red and
white machine to keep the pace with
other Carolina elevens,

Clemson will be met at Clemson
this fall. Efforts of the Charlotte
legion men to have the game trans-
ferred to the Queen City failed.
Clemson and Davidson have not met
for several years on the gridiron,
The Tigers will give the Wildcats a
stiff battle, judging from the way
they have been holding the Praying
Colonels of Centre the past two
years.

The place for the Carolina-David-
son game has not been decided. The
date for the battle is the same as
last year, November 17th. The
game in Charlotte last fall was play-
ed before a big crowd and the same
city bids fair to get the game. Caro-

‘lina has a backfield as good as the
one she had in 1922, but is having
| trouble with the line.

Davidson will close ther season
|with Trinity at Charlotte. Furman
has been met in the’ past on the last
| Thursday in November but the ath-
letic officials have seen fit to play
jthe Methodists this year on Turkey
|'Day. To avenge the defeat handed
| them at Greensboro last year will be

the purpose of the Wildcats this fall.
Coach Steiner is hard at work shap-
ing a Blue and White eleven at Dur-
ham but the shortage of experienced
men may hinder his progress. This
game will close the gridiron season
with both institutions. By this time

the world will know what Coach
has done during his first three
months with Davidson as _ head
coach,

FRESHMAN CLASS

(Continued from page 1)

at length, but the most outstanding
of them might well go sojourned up-
on for a season. The fact is that
the aspect of the class is that of ex-
treme youth. A committee of the
most eminent psychiatrists, palm-
readers, oak-readers, osteopaths,
and geologists, which have been
baying on the trail of the final solu-
tion of the question, maintains that
the age. of the class has been mis-
calcuated by at least a millenium,
four score decades, six and twenty
years, and possibly some months,
not exceeding twelve. In fact the
members of said committee main-
tain that the class is yet in its in-
fancy, for as may be observed by
any student optimetrics, many of
them have not opened their eyes
yet, and many still swaddle their
clothes.

Another anomaly which staggers
the profound thinker on this sub-
ject, is that the class is both large
and small. ‘Twenty-four tens of

Freshmen make a large pile, and a

structure which includes in it the
Fourth Story is indeed lofty, and yet
on the whole there has never been
a smaller, more toothpickish, more
shuhite class since the days of Gulli-
ver, There should be hesitancy in
bringing forward the fact that three
members of the class wear short
pants, for that would be misleading.
Considering dimensions, at least 50
per cent of them should be compell-
ed to live and move and respire in
similar short pants.

There is little need to go into de-
tails concerning the loudness of the
Freshmen. Who has been on cam-
pus since the opening of college and
has not noticed their loudness of
mouth, headgear, and color? “Yet
for all their loudness they are noted
and distinguished for dumbness.
This last named characteristic has
been noticed in class and out, on so
many occasions, by so many people,
and under such a variety of condi-
tions, that it would be impossible to
set down the ten-thousandth part of
it, In fact if the dumbness of the
Freshman class, or its unparalled
ignorance which is equal and op-
posite thereto were to be portrayed
fairly, even only in minute part, the
reader would doubtless faint to the
earth in coils. An idea of some of
the milder instances of this manifes-
tation of ignorance may be had when
it is known that “new boys” have
wanted to know if they might not
have single rooms in the dormitories,
because of recent appendicitis oper-
ations and similar reasons. Others
have requested that faculty members
parade the halls of their sleeping
apartments, in order to insure quiet-
ness during the earlier part of the
night. Others were so ignorant that
they brought with them buckets,
dippers, washtubs, curling irons,
combination toothbrush and nail
files, nightcaps, and bed warmers.
Others wanted to know why there
were Freshman regulations, why
there weren’t movies every night,
why they charged admission to the
movies when they did have them,
why upperclassmen didn’t make it a
habit to pour water at meals, why,
if a parallelipiped was a piped with
parallel sides, a parallelogram was
not a gram with parallel sides, and
why — encyclopedias didn’t have
wheels ! :

Stated scientifically, the ignorance
of the fresh class approaches
“VERY” as a limit, and it is so ex-

tremely very that it is exceeding.

ls

SERVICE

______ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON
MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS

2nd Floor Knox Bldg.

SATISFACTION

