DAVIDSON —$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Babidson Obserber

Today—1 Page

Vol. I. No. 7

DAVIDSON, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

BONDS GIVE DAVIDSON
MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS

Davidson’s progressive spirit is clearly
shown in the step toward municipal advance-
ment she has taken in the past few months,
and without a doubt the town will soon
boast of a first class system of municipal
water works and improved streets.

It will be remembered that during the past
fall there was a near water panic, largely
caused by the inadequacy of the Davidson
College water works to supply sufficient
water to both the college and the town. At
that time the town called a bond election at
which bonds for $60,000 for municipal water
works, and $30,000 for street improvements
were provided. These bonds have gone
through the process of validation and are
now .ready for advertisement prior to bids
on them being accepted by City Clerk
Thompson on March 21.

As soon as money is realized on these
bonds, steps will be taken to let contracts to

cover the various proposed improvements.
TD.

Miss Martin Entertains

Miss Eloise Martin, of Converse College,
was the lovely host of a house party last
week-end. The Kappa Sigma fraternity
gave a social function Saturday in honor of
the guests. Among the guests were: Misses
Anna Law, Jean Dupre and Mary Oeland,
of Spartanburg, S. C., and Miss Lois Rogers
and Miss Margaret Jenkins of Shelby, S. C.
Other visitors were Messrs. Jones Yorke,
Sam Tolar and Louis Crisp, of State Col-
lege.

J. M. Rumple, ’12, arrived this week from
Columbus, O., with his wife and small
daughter, Jean. Mr. Rumple is on his way
to South America, where he will work for
the Gilchrist Company.

Mrs. I’. H. Whitaker left Thursday for
an extended visit in Greensboro. During
her absence Mrs. Schenk will be with Mrs.
Hugh Grey.

Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Barnes were visitors

at the home of their mother, Mrs. M. L.

Barnes, last Wednesday on their way home
from a visit in Texas,

Davidson people will be interested in hear-
ing that Miss Katheryn Worth is listed
among the honor pupils of journalism in
Columbia University of New York.

Wednesday, being St. Valentine’s Day,
caused many social functions, among them
being a unique party at the home of Captain

and Mrs. Ellis in honor of the “As You Like |

It” Club. The Young Ladies’ Club was de-
lightfully entertained by Miss Mary Black.

One of the most enjoyable and profitable |
meetings of the Book Lover’s Club was that |

held at the home of Miss Vinson on Wed- to their credit, while Davidson had annexed the first half, 15-13.

nesday afternoon. The main paper of the!
evening was read by Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle on
“Dutch Art.” Delicious

brought the meeting to a close.

Miss Velma Shambart, who is a teacher | individual star, scoring 12 of her team’s 19; them in like it was the easiest thing in the |

in the Charlotte schools, spent the week-end |
with her sister, Mrs. L. A. Weatherly.

J . P. Williams, 16, has accepted the pres-
idency of a school for girls at Lewisburg,

refreshments |

AMERICAN LEGIONAIRES

DEDICATE NEW HOME

In response to an invitation sent to the.

Davidson and Cornelius Legionaires and
their families, a large crowd gathered on
last Monday evening to the dedication of
the new home in the Knox Building of the
Davidson-Cornelius Post, No. 86, of .the
American Legion.

Following the dedication of the new and
spacious legion headquarters, an impressive
program was rendered. Besides a splendid
musical program, there were many intefest-
ing events presented.

Past Commander Morrow, of Mooresville,
installed new officers for the year 1923. ‘he
officers inducted into authority were: H. S.
Caldwell, commander; L. R. Christenbury,
vice-commander; Frazer Hood, chaplain; J.
B. Ryan, adjutant and finance officer; Dr.
John W. MacConnell, service officer; and
I’. F. Booe, sergeant-at-arms. After having
charged the officers as to their duties, Past
Commander Morrow charged the members
of the legion as to their duties as members
of that patriotic body..

Doctor Lockwood, of Charlotte, State
Commander of the American Legion, made
an address in which he spoke of the prin-
ciples for which the American Legion stands

‘The new rooms will make a comfortable
home for the club and is offering a profitable
pastime to its members through its ‘reading
room and many interesting indoor games.
The rooms are well furnished and make club
rooms of which any post of the American
Legion should be proud.

This post is planning a bright and pro-
gressive future in its new home.

D
DAVIDSON HIGH GIRLS
WIN FROM STATESVILLE

In one of the fastest and best girls basket-
ball games seen here this year, the Davidson
High girls team defeated the Statesville
team 30 to 19, last Friday, February 16.

Davidson obtained the lead early in the
first quarter and managed to hold it through
the game. The local team’s guards did ex-
cellent work, and the forwards took advan-
tage of every opening to cage the ball.

Statesville came back in the second quarter
and managed to keep Davidson from scoring

but one basket, but were unable to score’

themselves. The half ended with the score
10-3, in Davidson's favor.

The second half Jane Preston, who was
substituted for her sister June Preston,
seemed to find the basket and seemed to com-
pletely mystify the Davidson guards, but in

spite of her excellent shooting the quarter

ended with the score 19-11 in the local’s
favor.

The last quarter was somewhat a repeti- |
tion of the first.
| fought part of the game.
lead and trailed in at the finish with 19 points |

30.

| Adele Shelton starred for Davidson, scor- |
Charlotte |

ing 23 of her team’s points.
| Hunter also played a good game at center.
| For Statesville, Jane Preston was the

| Points.
D.

| D
| Mrs. J. M. Wharey is visiting hee daugh- |
iter, Mrs, W. R. Grey.

Both teams scoréd several |
points, and this was probably the hardest’
Statesville, how- |
;ever, was unable to overcome the eight-point |

‘FORD AND TRACTOR |
AGENCY ESTABLISHED

One of the latest additions to the list of
Davidson business firms is the Presson
| Motor Company. The new concern is located
on South Main Street, occupying a new
building opposite the Carter Motor Company.

The business is owned and personally con-
ducted by Mr. S. L. Presson. Mr. Presson is
the authorized Ford and Fordson sales and
service dealer of this district. Gas and oil
and a complete line of parts and accessories
are carried in stock.

Besides the manager, the working force
consists of two salesmen and threc first class
mechanics,

Mr. Presson stated that the business has
been prospering since its formal opening two
weeks ago. He reports that despite the bad
weather of the past weck, five cars and one
tractor were sold.

good and caged two baskets from the floor,
leading the Wildcat scorers.

Staley shot three goals during the con-
test and ran wild on the floor. ‘The pass-
work of the Poison Squad was perfected,
but the frequent fouls marred the contest
and slowed down the teams. One foul shot

* was attempted during each minute of the

game and this made steady play practically
impossible,

Stringlield, with 21 points, was high man
for the evening. His two field goals placed
the Baptists in the lead and his accuracy on
foul shots spelled the Wildcats defeat.

Summary: ~
DAVIDSON (24) WAKE FORSET (29)
Staley (6):.......4 R. F....Stringfield (21)
IeeV tel (C))Gocdcncen 1B ed Desist HNC Greason (4)
Mauze—-C10)--- Gets Carlyle (2)
Crawford (4)...... R. G Lake (0)
Borer (0) scares Li-Gorcivert Pagano (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: McConnell for
Laird; Davis for Boggs. Wake Forest:
Brewton for Carlyle; Heckman for Lake.

Foul Goals—Mauze, 6 out of 12; String-
field, 17 out of 23.

Referee: Groger (V. M. I.)

ELON GAME,

The bright spot in the Wildcat’s otherwise
unsuccessful trip through the State was the
clean-cut victory of the Poison Squad over
Elon, 30-24. ‘The Red and Black picked up
steam ‘a little to late in the Wake Forest
game, but against the Christians they had
everything oiled up from the start and pulled
off a bit of passing that simply bewildered |
the opposition.

The brilliant passing, coupled with the
machine-like accuracy of both quints, made |
| the earlier portions of the game of a variety
| that Elon will remember for some time. In|
i the latter phases, however, the open play was |
abandoned and the game grew rougher and
fiercer towards the end.

Fix, of Elon, started the scoring with a}
pretty goal, but the Wildcats soon took the
lead and lead the better of the argument in

Se cas amimicnciiaiamintmems

| It was in the beginning of the second peri-
od, however, that the Poison Squad got in|
their best work, and soon the scoreboard |
| showed the Wildcats leading by a dozen |
markers. Crawford and Mauze were rolling |

| world, but Elon called a halt to such pro-
“ceedings and, with their guards fighting like |
wildmen, the Christians began to regain their |
| losses, though they never again came close |
| enough to be dangerous. |

ATT arma w Tr ph

Va. Mr. Williams married Miss Irena Fore-| The Bible study class which has been meet- | Summary : H
man, sister of Professor J. K. Foreman. |ing at the manse each Tuesday morning| ELON (24) DAVIDSON (30)
closed its work for this year last Tuesday. [Fix (14)....ececees 1p Nagao .. Laird (6)

The layman’s convention in Charlotte this) The subject for study this year was’ the | Brown, R.......... ReGRGe meena Staley
week, and the woman's parallel convention gospel of Luke. It was studied according | Brown, A (4)....... Or: ..Mauze (10)
will attract a number of church people from|to the outlines sent out by the assembly | McAdams ......... L. G... . Boggs
Davidson. There will be several noted | training school. Perry (4)......... R. G.. i Ghawford (12)

speakers at both meetings.

The epidemic of measles in this community |
has seriously affected the attendance in the neyed: to Wake Forest and lost a 29-24 de-|

primary department of both the Methodist.
and Presbyterian Sunday schools.

Mr. Ralph Shumaker spent Thursday with |
his aunts, the Misses Shumaker, on his way
__to_Oteen,

| Miss Efizabeth Cranford was home last
week from the University of North Carolina.

All the prayer meetings during the week
prayer for foreign missions were well
At'the last. meeting Friday after-

T).
BAPTISTS, BITE DUST
(Continued from Page 6)

cision to the Baptist quint. The Wildcats |
| played the Baptists off their feet on the)
| floor, but Stringfield’s 17 foul shots out of |
23 attempts kept the Baptists in the running
and helped them to nose out the Fighting
Devils:

The Wildcats scored rhe field goals to the
Baptists’ six, but the 23 throws from the
charity line were too big a handicap for the
Poison Squad to overcome and the Old Gold
and Black won by a five-point decision.

The first period was close and fast and the
intermission found the Baptists leading by a
16-13 score.

The Poison Squad opened the second per-

with a rush and forged into the lead
19. At this point the Baptists gained the
lead on fouls-and were never headed again. —

Captain George made six of twelve-thots

Substitutions—Elon: Hroois (2) for A.
|Brown; Marlette for Perry. Davidson:
Beall (2) for Staley.

Referee: Mangum, Durham “Y.”

GUILFORD GAME

Winding up their road trip on Saturday
| afternoon, the Fighting Devils were nosed
out by the Frazier boys of Guilford, 45-43.

To the Frazier brothers goes all the credit |
for the Guilford victory, for between them
they made 41 points. |

The game was a seesaw affair in which |
neither side had any distinct advantage. The |
score was tied fourteen times during the
contest and at the end of the first period the
Wildcats were leading 29-27.

The lead seesawed back and forth until
with one minute left to play the count stood
‘43-43. J. G. Frazier red the sphere in
the corner of the court and with a backhand
toss shot it through the meshes and gave the
Quakers the game by two points.

made five foul shots good while Warhoss
|tossed in three and each team made 20
field goals, exactly one a minute. The total
of 88 points is the highest total score made
in a college game this season.

J. G. Frazier, with 25 points, won high
point honors for the evening. J. M. Frazier

land Red Laird each made eight baskets,,

while Warhoss and Pat made five shots good.

Only two or three short shots were made
during the whole contest and never have
more spectacular shots been crowded into a
small 40 minutes.

DAVIDSON (43) GUILFORD (45)

Beall (2)........ R. F..Frazier) J. W., (16)
Laird (16)....... L. F...Frazier, J. G. (25)
Mauze (16)......... Gu aiiain Mackey (2)
Crawford (10)..... R. G....... Thomas (0)
Boggs (0)......... Be Gis scae Ferrell (2)

Substitutions — Davidson: Staley for
Beall; Davis for Staley.

Foul Goals—Mauze, 3; J. G. Frazier, 5.
Dp.

STATESVILLE PASTOR SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

question as to whether we will conform to
the world for a short time and suffer for
longer times and greater punishment, or
whether we will reign with Him in eternity.
Today we are wrestling with nations, with
principalities. The faithful soldier of Jesus
Christ will endure and will gain the victory.

“We see churches fall away, we see men
being lost, because men, teachers of men,
forget God in their search for worldly
knowledge. The mantle of Elijah has de-
scended on the Southern college, on David-
son College, to carry on the work of the
Kingdom.

“A passionate suffering for a loving Savior
is the greatest passion of the human heart.
The miracle of miracles is that Christ came
down from His heavenly home to be human,
that His blood might be given for us. And
yet we lose sight of the suffering of Christ,
of the Christ in whom is power and holiness.

2!

us

OVNGCCANUNGNNEOGOOUOOUGENNNEOUOCUCEACEOGUUGUNOONEAHOUUAUIONNOOOUL

Monarch
Coffee

None Better at Any Price

MH

ire

AS

i

Full Line of
Heavy

and

Fancy

GROCERIES

H.M. Johnson

“He came in His holiness and gave His
allness for our nothingness. He is one per-
son, both God and man, God that He may
save man, and man that He may sympathize
with man. When He comes there will be
adoration and love to those of His people
who have been true to Him. Blessed and
Holy is he who believes on Him. Joy will
reign supreme, all suffering will be gone.”

The speaker concluded his sermon with a
beautiful poem which had for its teaching
the greatness of standing as a brave soldier
of Christ.

ElectricShoeShop

LET US REPAIR YOUR
SHOES

We Double Their Life
Davidson, N. C.

Presson Motor
Company

Authorized Ford Dealer

LINCOLN
FORD
FORDSON

DAVIDSON, N.C.

CROWELL PUBLISHING
COMPANY

The American Magazine
The Woman's Home

‘ Companion
Collier’s Weekly
Farm and Fireside

The Mentor

Davidson Representative
MISS DICTORIA WITHERS
Box 227
Davidson, N. C.

oonssaccccnccosccccccouscsccscccanconccsnacsasssscscseses .

)
seesscesccss:

TI is

Henderson Auto
Electric Co.

BATTERY REPAIRING ”
and

ACCESSORIES

Davidson, N. C.

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home

Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE; N. C.

“Taste the

~-Ft-wasa goal a minute game, The Quakers

Electrik Maid BREAD
| PIES---CAKES---BUNS

Electrik Maid Bake shop.

si tec N.C.

Dif ference”

