6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923
O D li COVINGTON RECEIVES a pass to Johnston for a 33 yard gain. Hoi- N. C. State (12) of Davidson (6)
e e Captain Hearn e Ivers | FIFTEEN YARD PASS | land carried the ball over on two line ; Position: :
The Wildcat Tribe 66? | —— bucks. Lassiter failed to kick goal. Wallis cicsc2ese28 naan nnna---=-=-=- Faison
Strong Talk at Y Vesper (Continued from page 1) Score: State 12, Davidson 0, Right End
| ee {had no other chances to score until the final| Lassiter kicked to the 5 yard line to | Logan a-------------- a2---- _-- Summers
Harry Lee Vance | Delivers Strong Plea for Mountain period, when they rushed the ball to the one- | Shepherd who passed the ball to Covington | Right Tackle ae
Harry Lee Vance came to Davidson! Orphanage and Mission Work yard line, only to be thrown back by the who shot tip the side Hi a a een a alee wanton Fate Gl ceeocens gz
from the neighboring town of Huntersville. ; ; : a " j Stone wall defense of the Techmen. 1 hen, eleiun dtl aloe to : ane BL bis leery 2 id Hide
Harry is 21 years old and weighs 167 pounds. | _ A direct, foreetul talk Was delivered he- jafter Elms had punted, came the Wildcat | Black made it Hbet Gown ae ee: aa he catty ieee ccnones fore Mepoee sass
Because of his being active and fast, he is | fore the Y. M. C. A. at its vesper service | score, After the kick-off the Wildcats made | half closed. Score: State 12, Davidson 0. lee ei e ee
making good at a guard position on the var- | !@st Sunday. Captain T. G. Hearn Wee Ui) Es last desperate attempt for victory, but Shepherd kicked off to Johnston who re- | 5¢We ce ena
sity this year. In the State game this past speaker. His subject was The Lee s McRae | Shuford intercepted a pass and the 8aMC |turned to the 38 yard line. Johnston and], 4 ne
week, Harry played left guard on the de- Tustitute, oF Banner EK, NOU oth jended with the ball in State’s possession, Lassiter made it first down on two off-tackle | ~°% ---------- tate Tacks teats
fense and right guard on the offense. If he | His talk was Ww unusual interest feasts of | For the Wolfpack, Johnston, Lassiter and plays. Holland fumbled and Davidson re- | ims ee Davis
keeps up his present stride he will receive a the fact that Edgar Tufts, of the class of | Holland were the outstanding. stars. Hen-{ covered in. midfield. Covington failed to | lms ----------- ce
“D" at the end of the season. 1922, has been in charge of this work since drjx, Covington and Shepherd were the! gain. A pass, Hendrix to Faison gained | ae < 4 iandeie
Harry came to Davidson, a graduate of Busdiele ay of his father last dllhs ___ bright lights in the Davidson backfield, while three yards. Faison gained 18 yards on aI ague ------ SS aaiGa
the Huntersville High School. There he Captain Hearn began by INANE vivid’ Boggs, Laird and Long starred in the line. | pass from Hendrix but fumbled and State || nston 8 hol seni ae Shepherd
was prominent in all form of athletics, In scription of the valley in which the school Jyayidson won the toss and chose the North |

his Senior year, 1922, he played both base-
hall and_ basketball.

He entered Davidson with the class of '26.
During his first year he took an active part
in football, and made the Fresh team. He
also took an active part in baseball, making
good in left field.

At present Harry is Handicapped by hav-
ing an injured ear. However, he is working
with renewed

energy and is holding his
place on the varsity.
Tom Baker

Tom Baker is known to every man in the
college. “He is the type that stands out easily
among his classmates. Since his first week
as a Freshman, Tom has occupied a peculiar
place in the campus activities.

Coming to Davidson from Georgia Mili-
tary Academy, Tom brought with him a most
enviable football record. At end he had
played splendid and consistent football
throughout his stay there. He was elected
captain of the team his last year at prep
school.

Tom» showed a great knowledge of the
game from the very start. Wher the
Freshman team was picked he easily secur-
ed a berth as end and proved his worth by
being elected captain of the Freshman team.
As captain he piloted the Wildkitten through

a successful season fighting for every foot. |

The present season has seen Tom flash
forth in his best form as a Wildcat pigskin
artist. Never wearing a headgear he is in
the thick of every play, gets his man when
the play depends upon him and receives for-
ward passes with uncanny skill. In the Cit-
adel game he showed up his best form and
received a long forward which a moment
later was turned into the only touchdown of
the game. .

In several other games Tom has showed
up splendidly, although he has a hard time
breaking into the game when such peerless
and experienced ends as Nappy Davis and
Captain Faison are in the game. Tom shows
that he is a true Wildcat, and will make
one of the best football players that David-
son ever turned out.

VOLUNTEER CONVENTION

_(Continued from page 1)

needs and possibilities of the situation in the
world today and*to consider the responsi-
bility of the Christian students of the United
States and Canada in the light of this situa-
tion. x

The speakers of the convention will be
men and women who are recognized as au-
thorities of the highest order in their res-
pective fields. The convention will be open-
cd with four addresses dealing with the four
great themes which are being discussed in
the colleges throughout the country this fall,
Modern Industrialism, International Prob-

lems and the Christian Way of Life, Racial

Relations and Christian Brotherhood, and |much like to have him return some time to
Present Day Social and Intellectual Unrest. |

Two sessions will be devoted to discus-
sions,

frow out of the addresses and the general

In these discussions the delegates
will think together on the problems which

is situated, surrounded by three beautiful

: goal. Lassiter kicked to Davidson's 15 yard
mountains,

line, Shepherd returning 16 to the 31. Shep-
In connection with the school is an or- herd ploughed through left tackle for 5 yards,
phanage, known as Grandfather's Orphanage Two drives by Black made it first down on
hecause of its situation almost in the shadow | the 44 yard line. Three plays gained 5 yards
of Grandfather's Mountain. The children and Shepherd punted 31 yards to Sprague,
there are bright and they work hard, but | who returned 5 to the 25 yard line, Lassiter
they are at a disadvantage, due to the lack made 7 yards on two plays. Johnston made
of equipment of the orphanage and that 1 over the line. [lms punted 36 yards. Dé
school. Both are in urgent need of equip- vidson failed to gain on three plays and Gig
ment and funds, since there is no endowment Shepherd punted 46 yards out of bounds on
fund from which to draw. The voluntary) State's 20 yard line, Lassiter made 4 on a
support of friends is depended upon entirely. fake. Johnston made 5 on the same play.
Captain Hearn told of the garden that Lassiter failed to gain and Elms punted to
cach orphanage boy and girl has, He midfield, Black hit right guard for 2 yards,
brought in several small features of interest, Running from spread formation, Shepherd
such as his story of the champion cow-milk- | circled right end for 12 yards and first down
er, who claims a record of forty-five seconds on-the 37 yard line. Three plays netted 3
for extracting a gallon of milk. yards. Shepherd's place kick from the 34
Many obstacles are working against Mr, | Yard line failed, State's ball on the 20 yard
| Tufts, but he is carrying on the work. with line, After three plays, Elms punted out of
an untiring zeal and determination, “He de- | Pewnds on his own 32. yard line. Hendrix
serves to be commended for the excellent Y#s smothered before he could get started,
spirit with which he has fought seemingly |" lost 5 yards. A pass, Hendrix to Black,
Unsurmotntable {netted 15 yards and a first down on the 17
Hearn) yard line, Two line plays netted 3 yards.
In emphasizing the great financiaKneed of | Qutrter up. Score: State 0, Davidson 0.
the school and orphanage, Captain Hearn) Hunt lost 2 yards around left end as the
suggested that cach student ask his parents | “uarter opened, Shepherd's place kick fail-
‘to send part of their Thanksgiving offering |¢d. State's ball on 20 yard line. Holland
to this work. The story of his recent visit |Made 6 on three plunges. Elms punted 29
to Banner Elk added froce to his appeal. yards to Davidson's 45 yard line. Shepherd
The symphony orchestra was a great as-| failed at guard. Davidson was penalized 15
set to the musical end of the program, C, V.| yards for holding. Black and Hunt made
Brown led the singing and introduced the | four yards. Shepherd punted 31 yards to
speaker to the audience. | Johnston who returned 19 yards. Johnston
|made 13 yards on two tackle plays for a first
down on Davidson's 33 yard line.
was penalized 5 yards for offside. A pass,
Lassiter-to Elms, netted 17 yards and a first
down on the 11 yard line. Two line bucks
and a pass, Lassiter to Elms, for 5 yards
put the ball on the 4 yard line. Holland
went oven for a touchdown. Lassiter’s drop
kick failed. State 6, Davidson 0.
Lassiter kicked the 10 yard line to Shep-
herd who returned 24 yards. Covington
made 3 yards on two end runs. Black hit
left guard for 3 yards. Shepherd punted 25
yards to Sprague who returned 5 yards.

obstacles,” said Captain

J. STITT WILSON

(Continued from page 1)
in Oxford, England, doing special research
| work, He was formerly mayor of Berkeley,
| California, He is a well-known American
jexponent of workable ideas about industry,
politics, and religion. He speaks from ex-
perience. “The California League for Rati-
| fication of the Peace Treaty and the League
of Nations selected Mr. Wilson as the one
| man qualified to answer Senator Johnson in
vhis attack upon the League .

Score:

i + + great mass | Johnson made 1 yard over right tackle. A
| Meeting... hundreds were turned away... pass, ‘Elms to Lassiter, netted 13 yards. A
| Heckled at first .. . the question was put to pass, Lassiter to Elms, netted 2 yards. Las-

| a vote and all but twenty voted to endorse

siter hit center for 4 yards.
| the covenant.” By all this we may judge

Lassiter shot

Davidson |

recovered on Davidson's 34 yard line. John-
ston and Lassiter made first down on two
plays. Davidson offside, making it
first down on Davidson's 47 yard line. Hol-
Hand, Johnston and Lassiter smashed through
| for another first down. Holland hit tackle
twice for 4 yards. Lassiter passed to Elms
| for 6 yards: and a first down on the 26 yard
jline. Holland carried it to the 14 yard line
lon two smashes, Lassiter hit the line for 2
yards. Sprague made 2 yards on a delayed
| buck, the only time he carried the ball during
| the entire game. A pass hit the goal posts
| Davidson's ball on the 20 yard line. Shep-
herd punted to Johnston on the 45 yard line
and Faison downed him in his tracks. Three
iplays failed to gain and Elms punted 15
jyards out of bounds. Shepherd hit right
i tackle for 4 yards. Black made first down
jon two rushes, Black hit the line for two
jyards. Two short passes to Black and
Shepherd netted 7 yards. Black made’ it
| first down on the 38 yard line. Hendrix
}made 2 yards around end as the period ended.
| Score: State 12, Davidson 0,

|

Was

Failing to gain, Shepherd punted out of
} bounds on State’s 2 yard line, Elms punted
| 23 yards to Shepherd who returned to the
/1¢ yard line. Hendrix circled end for 6
yards, Black made first down on the 5
yard line on three rushes. The State de-
fense stiffened and the fourth down found
‘the ball on the 1 yard line. State was off-
| side on the next play. Then Shepherd hit
\the line and the ball went over on the 1 foot
Ware A pass from behind the goal line
failed. Elms punted to the 37 yard line.
Holland intercepted a Davidson pass on his
39 yard mark. Elms punted to Covington
who returned 15 to midfield. A pass failed.
Hendrix shot a pass tovCox for 11 yards and
a first down. Covington received a 15 yard
pass from Hendrix and ran 25 yards for a
touchdown. The try for point failed.

Score: State 12, Davoidson 6.

Shepherd kicked to Shuford who returned
28 yards to his own 33 yard line. Four line
plays gave State a first down. Johnston hit
the line for 13 yards, Three plays failed
and Elms punted to Davidson’s 10 yard line.
Covington made 2 over tackle. Shuford in-
tercepted a pass on the 28 yard line. A line
play failed as the game ended. Score: State
12, Davidson 6.

The line-up and summary follow:

Holland

Lassiter

State
Davidson

Scoring: Touchdowns, Holland (State) 2;
| Covington (Davidson).

Substitutions: N. C. State: White for
Hendricks; C. Shuford for Holland. Dav-
jidson: Sappenfield for Hendrix; Hodgin
|for Summers; Covington for Sappenfield ;
Baker For Davis; Vance for Boggs; Davis
for Baker; Lindamood for Hodgin; Hen-
drix for Hunt; Cox for Fields; Baker for
Davis; Buck for Covington.

Officials: Referee, Major, Auburn. Um-
pire, Ixard, Washington and Lee. Head-
linesman, Hodgson, V. P. I..

Attendance, 4,000.

| Time of quarters.

14 minutes each.

|

| PRESIDENT MARTIN, SPEAKER
AT MEETING IN CHARLOTTE

(Continued from page 1)

As such, a sinner is lost and the words of the
prophet, “The soul that sinneth, it shall die,”
stare the sinful man in the face.

Without true and real repentence no man
has faith said Dr. Martin, at the same time
calling faith the “bedrock of salvation” and
saying that there is only One in whom a per-
son can have perfect faith. ‘There is no
name given by which we can be saved but
that of Jesus Christ. Faith in God doesn’t
save. He is the Father, our creator and
judge and has ordained it so fhat he Himself
is not the Savior. The Holy Spirit is not
the Savior, it is our guide. It is Jesus Christ,
the son of God who is our only Savior.
Christ is our all-sufficient, all-efficient Sav-
jor.

There must be more than the intellectual
acceptance of Christ as man’s Savior, said
Dr. Martin, quoting the Bible “By their
fruits shall ye know them.”

The Charlotte Observer is reporting the
meeting, indicates plainly that Dr. Martin's
speech was most favorably received and

thoroughly enjoyed.

jthe calibre of the man who will address the

student body next Friday.

It would be impossible to present the
statements of the many authorities all of
whom unite in praising him. “However, the
| following extracts will serve as examples of
their eulogistic remarks :

Dean Bechtel; Tulane University, New Or-
leans: “Upon those who were present and
had the opportunity of hearing these force-
ful talks, a tremendous impression was made.
Mr. Wilson's earnest and forceful presenta-
tion of the social message in eloquent lan-
guage cannot fail to bear remarkable fruit
in its effect upon students. I. should very

Tulane.”

President Bizzel, A. & M. College of
Texas: “He is one of the most impelling
and convincing speakers that has ever spoken
to our student body. He greatly interested

Purpose of the Convention. Group meetings | our people.”

will be arranged so as to enable the delegates} Extracts from a letter signed by thirteen

to become personally acquainted with the | leaders of the Cornell University Christian

speakers and leaders of the convention. | Association: ‘We owe you a very large
The Convention offers a unique oppor-|debt of gratitude here at Cornell.... You

tunity to meet men and women ‘from every |have been like one of our members all this

type of college and university of the United | week and like an elder brother to us, leading |

States and Canada, and to enter into fel-| out our thought and courage into the larger

Icwship with the student delegates and lead- |
ers fro mmany other countries. To students |
who are still undecided as to the work they
plan to do in life, the Convention offers an
Occasion to revaluate life plans and pur-
poses in the light of human needs and Chris-

jtian motives. A)
Davidson College is allowed to send six
delegates, as the enrollment of the student
body determines the sizeof the delegation’
to rep‘esent them, that is one delegate, for
every hundred students. © Also one member
pO the faculty, the pastor of the church and
MW. M. C. A. secretary are permitted to

issues of the Christian social order... .

“. .. We feel that you have deepened the
solidarity of men of good will here in the
University and that instead of a few scat-
tered individuals we now have the very real

maintain their interest and morale in the
cause of the oppressed everywhere.”
Jt_is..possible that another lecture Friday
morning may be arranged; according to*a
statement made by Secretary Williams, who
is in charge of Mr. Wilson’s visit. Even if
he does not speak in the morning, the even-
ing talk-is-assured. and-will be delivered at

7 :30°o'clock, in Shearer Hall.

Peon

beginning of a college group which: will |

|
|

|
|

“What a difference -
just a few cents make!

~ FATIMA

