TH

E DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Back Your
Class

Team

Y SPORTS.

S

V.P.I.
D. G.

7
O

V.P.t....25
Glemson . 6

Carolina Favored to Win On to Carolina!

In Saturday’s Battle

4 ° Wildcatville, Nov. 15, 1923.
Wildcats Journey to Chapel Hill iicaata Mansiotn bth

Doped to Lose By Good Margin Dear Joe,

Tho i have been in this institutin of learnin
for going on three years my spellin has not
improved one whit and all my brain power
is on the decline from tryin to figure out the
next Satday’s Wildcat grid score. From the
past results it seems kind of like the Red and

Carolina will once more face Davidson
with odds stacked up in her favor when the
Tar Heels meet the Wildcats in Chapel Hill
next Saturday. Dope on previous games
show that Carolina should win, they having
won 14 tilts, lost three and tied four of the

, : contests in the grand ole game this season
21 played with Davidson.

e ; i; but everybody up hear is true Wildcats and
Caralina has totaled 208 po Grins 10. believes that when Monk’s clan journeys up
Davidson's 42 markers. The four tie games , to the Hill in the text coupla daze, the Tar
were scoreless. Davidson's last victory Was | Heels'Il Fala (ike Gee CTRL TOR Ru Ener Tie
In-192) the score Wasi7to10) Carolina woh | Heel. 1 kinda got a hunch the same way.

lastiyear 22)t0 G) /°\1 would of wrote you sooner in the season
} but all my time was took up with traveling
all over the Carolinas 2 see the Davidson
jteam in action. I saw some mitey good
scraps and they says true Americans always
yells for the underdog which i did but if tt
hadn't of been for sum bad brakes of the
game I wouldn't always of true
American,

And now only the Carolina game and the

In these contests,

The Fetzerites have had a reasonably suc-
cessful season this year, winning from Wake
Forest, 22 to 0; Trinity, 14 to 6; N. C. State,
14 to 0; and South Carolina, 13 to 0. They
have lost to Yale, 53 to 0; Maryland, 14 to 0; ,
and V. M.1.,9 to 0. The Carolinians do not
seem to have the big scoring team this year
that they have heretofore turned out. In
the games to date, Carolina has scored 63 |
points, while her opponents have put across contest with Trinkity on turkey day is leit.
83 markers. | Samuel Summers the baby of the team and

Carolina defeated Wake Forest when it) Doc DeArmon would of helped out consid-
was yet a new machine, unaccustomed to} crable in the past 4 sessions if they had of
playing together and not in its stride. They heen in shape but when they git in against
managed to defeat Trinity after having saved | the final oppositions of the season they will

F be making up for lost time and should Strut
I their mess.

We have hooked up with all kinds of oppo-
sishun in the past four. After mixing it
Our Representative
on the Campus

been a

with the Demon Deacons from Hardshell-
ville, a regular Purpul Hurycane from the
Palmtoe state, a whole passel of Wolfs
(looked like hippopotamuses to yrs. truly)
from Rally, and a reely truly snarling Tyger,
a bunch of Tar Heels and just plan Blue
Devils without any fancy names added on
ought to seem pleasanter,

Alkali Jones and a few other Texans say
the thin Red line should ought to be in the
beStest shape of what its ever been in. Also,
| that if a Mason would put mortar in between
jall them hard-rock buddies and make it a
| stone wall, it couldn’t hold no better than
| it does now.
| Well, Joseph, now that Nota Dame has

been knocked for a row of knock-need
double-jointed ash cans, anything can happen
so we're pulling for the old Wildcat come-
| back to be well oiled and in good workin’
| order day after tomorow. Anyways the Hill
| will see a battle royal Sad day (far the Tar
| Heels.)

| Coach Younger is pointin’ for the Tar
| Heel game.and then he'll be ready to see the
| Blue Devils Thanksgiving. We would like
to cop both games, but in case we come out
short in the first contest we'll still be in Char-
lot 100 per cent to back the team against
Trinity, seein’ as how the faculty have grant-
|ed an extra, special, one whole day holiday
| on account of its bein Thanxgiving. Hooray
for Thanxgivin'!! I got four straights on
Thursday ! !

| Come down and look us over sometime
| kid. Yours, as ever,

| CHONG.

The Commissary

Myers Hardware &
Sporting Goods Co.

18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES

Davidson Representative

J. P. HENDRIX
302 West

| Miss May Ellinwood has returned to

her home in Davidson where she will
| spend the winter. Mrs. Ellinwood and
her mother spent the summer months in
| their summer home, in Cornwall, Conn.

| Prof. A. V. Goldiere was host to Mr.
jand Mrs. J. P. Williams, and Mr. and
| Mrs. K. J. Foreman last Friday night.
| The entertainment was of a musical
| nature.

| at
| the first-string men from the Yale melee.
Then the Tar Heels crushed the Farmers,
the conquerors of Davidson, They then de-
feated South Carolina, who P. C. defeated.
By double figuring, Carolina, through the
state scores, should be 21 points better than
Davidson, and according to South Carolina
scores, 3 points should cover the margin.
Very little advance dope can be secured as
to the individuals on the team. No weights
have yet been announced. It is certain though
that Carolina will have it on Davidson in
weight, experience, and playing grounds, and,

Samples now on
display

WE APPRECIATE
YOUR PATRONAGE

J. M. HENDRIX
AND COMPANY

| GREENSBORO

~ WORTH CAROLINA

scratch heavily to chalk up the big end of
the score on Davidson's tally boards.

Black woriors ain’t meant to win any more |

coupled with the fact that Monk McDonald
will be playing his last game against the
Presbyterians, the Wildcats will have to

CLASS BASKETBALL Pies faze)
STANDING Yard Lines
W. OL. Pet.
chi ttel gd Sete canes ene) 0 1,000 Tear thru the Tar Heels.
Sheed hae oer eo ape wou Second verse, same song :
Wiitebis Se | 500 Hard luck again.
Sophs -------.-: 0 3 000 This time at Clemson.

| Jimmy Hendrix asks us to have a special
\Freshmen Forge to Front
in Final Period to Win

He)
| Sophs Bow to Yearlings in Erratic
Game

ward. For further details ask Jimmy.

Its a hard lot of teams in his state—a
Wolfpack, Wildcats, Blue Devils, and Demon
to mention the Tar Heels,
make it rather hard for the Christians and
Quakers.

Deacons—not

Before a large and enthusiastic crowd, the
Freshmen. won their third game by defeating
| the Sophomores 3 to 19. The game was well
| played and fast, although it slowed up oc-
casionally on account of the numerous fouls,

The game started off as if it were going
to be all Soph. - Lawson and Cooke seemed
to be able to locate the basket just any time,
and before the Fresh could wake up the
score was 11 to 4 against them. After play-
ing about 10 minutes, the Fresh called time
out, and from that point the game was all
Fresh. Kiser and Groover, with some long
shots brought the score up to 13. At. the
end of the half the score was 14 to 13, in
favor of the Sophs. The passing of the
Fresh was brilliant and had the Sophs at
sea, and no one could fathom it to break
it up.

The second half was slowér than the first,

chiefly because of the number of fouls com-
mitted. The Freshmen scored’ 21 points ‘n
this period while the Sophs were able to run
up only 5. It appeared as if the Freshmen
could locate the basket with a fair degree of
accuracy while the Sophs, getting a good
tmhany more chances to score, threw them
away by long shots and poor judgment.
The Freshmen have the best passing team
of the classes and if anybody but the Se-
niors is going to win the championship, it
is most probable that it will be this class.
There were no individual stars for the Fresh-
men, while Cooke and Lawson played the
best game for the sophs. The score:

| However, Elon and Guilford have a merry
time when they get together. It 7-0
lon this time.

Was

It was rumored that the college was going

the 20,000 visitors. It turned out that
two-gallon jug—that happened to be empty—
Was cnough,

In fact, there was so much extra water
that it got in the way on the end runs at the
games.

Boys, we're going back to the days of the
old stage coach. A scrap at Durham a month
ago isn’t heard of in Davidson for a month.
It’s all wrong, Stevenson, Bell, and Marconi,
it’s all wrong.

We won't be able to go home Xmas if the
Wildcats don’t win at Chapel Hill. We have
a sister—and other things—there, and we'll
never hear the end of it.

All the dope is against the Wildcats, but
that. just makes it all the merrier. ;

For the first time in four years the Seniors

are leading something—if the Juniors
haven't beaten them by now.

The Davidson High School continues its

Sophs (19) Position. Fresh (34) | winning streak. It’s always right there with
Cooke (5) -- -- -- -- -- -- Anderson (8) ]a@ team in its class.
Colthane (2) -- -- -- -. -. -- Groover (9) pied

re Forwards ; : With a varsity, a scrub and a freshman
lhite (4) 25 28 ao Se Ge oe Faucette (5) team, it does look like somebody could have

Center : arranged a bigger game for the occasion.

PAWSON (O)naaresrsonsar c= co Soasars)
RatkGta. G1) i Sosa) i ee eh ee NG : va
ats ; Vinn Of course we didn't know about those
‘ Guards

2 faniG
Substitutions; Sophs—Oden, Moore (1), 20,000 people.

Hovis, Montgomery. Fresh—Simpson (2),

Geargia Tech, Georgia, Alabama, Vander-

Beall (2), Hunter, Farrell, Perry, Kiser.) . : , i
(2) . eres bs bilt, Center, W. & L., and Florida, are still
Referee: Rawson; Length of halves; 20]. ‘ i i
atin Seis OMaleiian | GineTaD tue the ring for the Southern championship.
Cacia : Oe prac) : It doesn’t look like anybody is going to come

out with a clean-cut lead.

D. C. HIGHWAY

Georgia will have the edge if she beats
| Alabama, Vandy and Center, but Georgia
jisn’t going to do that little thing.
been a great factor in the increased business | —
and trade activities in North Carolina. This} Dope from Wake Forest has it that the
road-building program called for about $52,-| Baptists are warming up. for basketball.
000,000, of which not a cent has been gained | That's the sport where the Wildcats are
by an increase in taxation, This sum is be- | likely to get a bit of revenge.
ing secured by taxes of automobiles and |
btrucks and a state levy on gasoline of about! It is with deep regret that we heard of the
three cents per gallon. This puts the burden | death of Goodykoontz's brother. It is an-
of payment on those who derive the most | other name added to the list of football vic-
benefit from the improved highways instead | time. Goodykoontz was missed from the
of burdening the people with excessive taxes. | Freshman squad in the S. C. battle this week.
This slight charge has been about offset in
nearly all cases by increased savings in gaso-
line and tires.

(Continued from page 1)

Professor Brown's dope on the laws of
probability was so satisfactory last week that
we challenge Bailey Groome to a little guess-
ing game on Saturday's scores.

At Greenville, S. C.: Furman, .41; New-
berry, 0.

At Clemson, S. C.:
, At Charlottesville,
Virginia, 7.

At Raleigh, N. C.:
State, 0.

At Elon,
Elon, 0.

At Chapel Hill, N. C.:
Gauss,

Other important games will be:

At Knoxville, Tenn.: V. M. I., 21; Ten-
nessee, 3.

At Nashville, Tenn. :
gia, 0. .

At Atlanta, Ga.: Tech, 21; Kentucky, 7.

At Columbia, S. C.: W. & L., 20; S. C,, 0.

At Auburn, Ala.: Center, 10; Auburn, 7.

Davidson has benefited materially by this
road. Many tourists come through the town
and many stop here. Especially does traffic
seem to be the heaviest on Sunday afternoons,
when hundreds of cars pass though bearing
people from Charlotte, Statesville, and other
places, who can make miles and miles in an
afternoon’s time.

During his stay in Davidson, Governor
Morrison was taken on a ride over a greater
part of this highway. He gave as his opin-
ion that “It certainly is some road. We
were making 50 miles an hour up the road
a-picce and someone passed us like we were
standing still.”

Clemson, 17; P. C., 0.
Vaii—V, Pr I; 14;

Maryland, 21; N. C.
N72 Gi3

Wake Forest, 28;

Davidson, ?; N.

BACHELORS WILL MERGE

(Continued from page 1)

Gamma Delta; J. L. Rendleman. About 60
or 70 Bachelor alumni and Fijis will be here.

Vandy, 10; Geor-

to fill the college-tank with coffee to serve;
a}

WILDCAT RESERVES RUN
OVER HIGH POINT A. C. 25-6

The Davidson Scrubs had no trouble in
defeating the High Point Athletic Associa-
tion in their first game of the season, at High
Point, on Monday, November 15th, by the
score of 25-6. In the first quarter the Scrubs,
| with the old Davidson fight, rolled up three
|touchdowns, making the score 18-0. Near
lthe end of the quarter High Point pushed a

tablet engraved for him in the hard luck | touchdown through center, after going 50

iyards by two long passes. This was the
only time Davidson was threatened at all.
| Straight football, consisting mostly of off-
tackle plays and end runs, was all the Scrubs
/needed; in fact, they did not punt once dur-
ling the game. The last touchdown came in
|the third quarter,
The line-up was as follows:
PRettebndisersws 22 pee eee BakGh

Lett racklG-o. (ce cece a ee ek eattenson
| Left Guards 2525, bse ee ee ee eeleewis
\CGHME o eG Ge ao as So Gs coe Ge NS
| Right Guard ~. -. -- -- -. -. -- McAulay
Right Tackle -. -. -. -- -. -- -- Anderson
Rightebndeec cs 22 os eee eS ee eee Cox
Quarterback -. -. -. -. -- -. -- Sappenfield
Right Halfback -- -. -- -. ~~ ~~ McComb
Lett Halfback =<. <2 <= 2. <<. <= 22 Buck
Rilibackhegive cs: 2k Serco oes ese eer unt

Miss Sophie Richards, of Converse
College, spent the week-end with her
parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.

(III III III III III III rrr yr)

Central Cafeteria

“On the Square”’

Best Place to Eat

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

Ceo

IN*FAVOR
THIS FALL

Short,threebutton,
half-belted ulsters
are to be greatly
favored this fall.
You’ll see many
of'them; but none
like the Society
Brand Hampton.

The difference is in
the cut. There’s an air
about this overcoat that
you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut;
every detail—the roll of
the lapel, the spacing of
the buttons, the placing
of the pockets-isexactly
right.

We havea wonderful
assortmentof fabrics for
your selection. Hea-
ther mixtures, colorful
overplaids—whatever
you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.
(CHARLOTTE

- BROWN. & McCLAIN
Local Agents —

oe eos
