THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923.

LITERARY NEWS |

DAVIDSON DEBATERS
WILL MEET TRINITY

The intercollegiate debate with Trinity
will take place on the evening of Friday,
April 27th, in Shearer Hall. The men who
will uphold the’ forerisic ‘record of Davidson
on this occasion are Liston Elkins, Albert
Hillhouse and Warren Cox, with Joe Bald-
win as alternate.

The subject for debate is: Resolved, That
the issuance of tax exempt securities should
be forbidden by an amendment to the Fed-
eral Constitution. Davidson will defend the
negative of this question. The subject is
one of the most interesting questions for
debate that could be secured, and the debate
on Friday night promises to be a good one
in every respect. ;

The team*has been working hard on the
debate ever since the preliminaries with the
assistance of Professor Wagner. The order
of the speakers will be: Elkins, Hillhouse,
Cox. The first two of the men are from
the Eumenean Society while Warren Cox
is a Pandeinic. All three of the men are
members of the Junior Class and have been
very prominent in debating activities in their
various societies. Cox and Elkins are pre-|
idents of their respective societies, and Hill-
house has also held several offices,

According to the record this is the first
time that Davidson has met Trinity on the
debating platform. For many years how-
ever, the rivals have faced each other in
various intercollegiate contests. This year
seems so far to have gone to Trinity in
most of the athletic events but the Wildcat
debating squadron has determined to secure
revenge next Friday night.

Trinity has sent successful jteams this
year against Swarthmore and the University
of New York.

D.

PANDEINICS INSTALL
NEXT YEAR'S OFFICERS

At the regular meeting of the Pandeinic
Society, last Tuesday, an interesting pro-
gram was enjoyed. The new oflicers were
installed and a ‘splendid address was given
by (Warren Cox, president for the next
term. The other officers installed were: V.
President, H. B. Price; Secretary, Forrest
Franklin; Critic, D. B. Walthall; Second
Critic, C. M. S. McIlwaine; Treasurer, A. P.
Hudgins; Sergeant-at-arms, L. L. Deck.

The men on for debate were Young and
Milton for the affirmative; Yeargen and
Bevo Davis ‘for the negative. The discus-
sion was good and the decision of the house
and the judges was in favor of the negative.

Arnett Gamble and Wallace Moore each
gave an extemporaneous oration. Gamble’s
topic was, “Why I know so much about
girls, and Moore spoke on a subject of like
nature. Both of these orations were ably
given and both speakers seemed to get their
facts from experience.

The declaimer for the evening was Mc-
-Carty who ably presented The Message to
Garcia, The program was closed with the
curent events given by Perrin Hudgins who
presented some very ‘interesting facts.

GAVEL AND FORUM
‘RECEIVE 3 NEW MEN

The initiation of Dr. J. M. McConnell, J.
C. Bailey and W. A. Gamble occupied the
entire time at the weekly meeting of the
Gavel and Forum, heid last Wednesday
evening in the Delta Theta Chi Hall. Doc-
tor McConnell and W. A. Gamble were
elected to active membership and J. C. Bai-
ley to honorary membership in the fraternity.

Doctor McConnell in addition to being
connected with the Foreign Relations Club
has taken a very active part in the student
activities of the college and is well worthy
of the honor bestowed upon him.

J. C. Bailey, a graduate of the class of
1922 is at present principal of the Davidson
High School. While at Davidson Bailey
was an intercollegiate debater and won high
honors as a man of exceptional ability.

Gamble has done much to distinguish him-
self along oratorical lines while at Davidson,
several intercollegiate debates being among
his achievements.

Gavel, and Forum now has as members
some of the leading men of forensic fame
on the campus. It is doing much to pro-
mote interest in this type of work here and
is a fraternity devoted especially to the up-
building of interest in the literary societies
and oratorical endeavor.

D.
Welt if it wasn't for: the music they
would have been arrested.”—Exchange.

a

SIGMA UPSILON WILL
HEAR PROF. LOMAX

The Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity
met Monday, April 9, at 9:30 P. M. in the
Beta Theta Pi hall. The program consisted
mostly of a study of dramatic literature.
Several very interesting plays were reviewed
by different members. The plays of the
Carolina Playmakers received more atten-
tion and discussion than any others.

D. H. Ogden gave an interesting and en-
lightening review of Peggy, one of the plays
of the Carolina Playmakers. H. M. Morris
gave a discussion on Dod Gast Ye Both, and
W. J. Cooper discussed The Last of the
Lowries. These plays were also written by
the Carolina Playmakers. After these in-
dividual discussions a general discussion was
held on the work of the dramatists at Caro-
lina, which brought out many very intet-
esting ideas.

All the above mentioned plays tend to
depict the life and traditions of the people
of North Carolina, and especially those of
the lower class. They display their hard-
ships and their slight chance for ever ris-
ing above their present lot. The character
of the old moonshiner in The Last of the
Lowries was especially interesting. Dr. J.
M. McConnell also gave a delightful review
of Beauty and the Jagobin by Booth Tar-
kington,

The fraternity decided to continue the
study of dramatic literature, laying especial
emphasis on the works of modern European
authors. The next meeting will be held
on April 24, and it was decided that the fra-
ternity would ask Professor Lomax of
Texas, who will be here on that date, to
speak to them. It was also decided that a
reception would be given in his honor at the
same time.

D.

LIVELY SPEECHES
FEATURE PROGRAM

J. D. Bernhardt and A. C. Ray featured
the last meeting of the Metrophilean Liter-
ary Society. The former, with an oration
of well selected words interspersed with
sound logic, showed clearly what the pre-
paration of a debate should accomplish, Ray,
with many timely and well chosen jokes,
rocked the meeting in storms of applause
and turned.a solemn assembly into a bedlam
of laughter. This number of the program
changed the-meeting from one of a mediocre
variety to one of interest. :

G. M. Hodgin on the affirmative of the
debate showed the needs of a new system
of National Defense, while N. C. McLeod
pointed out the advantages of the depart-
ment that was proposed. On the negative
T. A. Guiton showed the increased cost of
this new system, while his colleague, O, P.
Matthews, pointed out the advantages of the
old system over the new one proposed.

D.
PRESIDENT’S PORTRAIT
DONATED TO DAVIDSON

A portrait of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, pre-
sent head of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and former president of Davidson, has
been presented to the College by one of its
friends. This most welcome gift will take
its place beside the portraits of former
presidents in the reception room of the
Library. Doctor Smith was chief executive
of Davidson from 1901 to 1912 and while
he was here he won the hearts of students
and faculty alike. Before occupying the
chair of the president, he was professor of
Natural Philosophy under Doctor Shearer,
now deceased.

This spring, at the installation of the
Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Doc-,
tor Smith delivered the principal address of
the evening. On the following day he spoke
to the student body in chapel at which time
he commended them for the many advance-
ments that had been made since his depar-
ture and especially for steps towards the
abolition of hazing.

The entire student, Body wishes to express
its appreciation to the donor of this picture
for his most generous gift. It will always
be prized as one of the priceless treasures
of the College.

TD.

Polk—You sure are like a mandolin.

R. R. Jones—How’s zat?

‘Polk—Because. somebody’s always picking
on you.

Okey Allison—How do you like my voice
in comparison with Caruso?

She—His is good, but yours is better
still.

DR. J. M. MCCONNELL
HONORED BY SENIORS

Having subscribed over $5,000 to the
Davidson College Campaign Fund the senior
class has decided to dedicate their class
room in the new Chambers Building to Dr.
J. Mt McConnell as the most popular pro-
fessor in the senior class.

The right to dedicate a room in the new
Chambers is a privilege awarded with each
subscription to the campaign fund of $5,000
or over. The members of the class of 1923
raised this amount from their number during
the recent campaign in the student body for
funds.

Dr. McConnell who is professor of His-
tory was unanimously chosen by the class
as the one to whom their room should be
dedicated and a marble tablet will be placed
in the room in his honor. Dr. McConnell
has been one of the outstanding and popular
members of the faculty and it was largely
thru his efforts that the local chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa was recently secured.

D

TWELVE MEN ELECTED
TO REPORTERS’ CLUB

At a meeting of the Reporter’s Club, last
Friday night, twelve men were elected to
membership, due to their excellent work as
reporters during the past year. Six were
upperclassmen and six freshmen.

‘The men elected were: Jack Austin, A. Y.
Bowie, MeP. S. Beall, J. L. Green, A. M.
Hurd, J. A. MeMillan, C. F. Monk, W. FE.
Milton, G. D. Rogers, J. M. Selser, C.F.
Smith, and P. J. Story.

These men will be formally initiated into
the club at a feed to be held after the movies
Saturday night. The installation of newly
elected will held at that
time.

officers also be

cdc ee Be
Prominent Young Lawyer
Speaks at Vesper Service

(Continued from Page 1)

ing, After the reading of the Scripture,
Matthew 7: 20-28, Charlie Hodgin and Get-
tys Guille led in prayer. An added feature
to the meeting was a solo by Allison,

“Life is the biggest thing we are immedi-
ately concerned with,” began Mr. Bobbitt.
“The present age is in a hurry; man is the
center of every movement, and what really
counts in the world is the man, What is_the
foundation of man? The foundation upon
which a man builds his life is personal char-
acter,

“What is character?” asked Mr. Bobbitt.
He then gave various and sundry definitions
that had been given to character. ‘“Charac-

PROFESSOR LOMAX WILL
SPEAK ON NEGRO SONGS

On April 24th, in Shearer Hall, Prof.
John Lomax, prominent lecturer will speak
to the students of Davidson on Negro Spir-
itualists. Professor Lomax will be remem-
bered as the entertainer who appeared in
Shearer Hall last year, with a pleasing re-
pertory of cow boy songs. He is a prom-
inent author.

Negro Spirituals is a topic with which he
should be quite familiar, for he was born
in Goodman, Miss, in 1870, and has lived
in Austin, Texas all of his life. He is a
true Southerner, and is fully able to inter-
pret the negro.

Professor Lomax is an alumnus of several
universities. He took his M. A, at Harvard,
where he is a great favorite and makes
repeated lectures. He was also professor of
English at the University of Texas.

The students and community of David-
son are extremely fortunate in having an
opportunity to hear a man who is becoming
so popular and who is so much in demand
as an entertainer and lecurer,

peg vanlevs2} p yrs wean

Sophs Stage Brilliant Affair
In Queen City Monday

(Continued from Page 1)

Piggy and his theme was “Davidson.” He
urged the class as a whole to work for the
hetterment of Davidson, for the standing of
the college depends upon the
classes.

respective

The toastmaster then called upon Dr. W.
L.. Porter for a Diological address, but
Doctor Porter surprised every one by read-
ing a poem on the subject of Sophomores
which hit the nail on the head and provided
eniovment of all.

Captain Ellis also departed from his sub
ject, R. O. T. C., long enough to regale the
gathering with a short and spicy talk, the

_|worst feature being that it was too brief.

A bad haircut was the Captain’s theme dur-
ing a large portion of the speech,

Gig Shepherd, the president of the Ath-

letic Association, presented the class tro-
phies in football and baseball, the former
cup to Julian Briggs, captain of the Soph
football, and the baseball cup, to Ben Hastie,
acting as proxy for last spring’s baseball
captain.
}—Gig’s speech was interrupted by ‘Trawick
who lighted a cigar causing the speaker to
halt in confusion and the toastmaster to
remark that when Trawick and the cigar
were joined, one end shone as brightly as
the other.

ter is a quality that a man may have which
comes out in time of need, character may
be a consciousness of what is right or wrong,
or character may also be defined as moral
courage. A man who stands out in a com-
munity is one who can be depended upon,
and this also represents character. Charac-
ter that does and dares is indispensable, and
no matter how vicious the storm and tempest
that kind of character is able to withstand
the onslaught,” said Mr.’ Bobbitt.

“Another thing that is necessary in learn-
ing to live,” continued the speaker, “is a
plan of life. Before a life can amount to
anything it must be built upon a plan. The
best+plan that I can suggest is a plan of
service. By that I mean a person who has
ideals and follows those ideals. The central
force of a man’s life rests with his ideals,
his power to work, and the rendering of a
service,

“Personal character and a plan of life
are two thihgs that are necessary to the
material structure of man. Let us now look
at the quality of a life, what makes up a
life. For this, there is no analogy. It has
been said that all great men have possessed
the quality of sincerity and earnestness, and
this may suffice as a definition. As exam-
ples of lives of conviction, look at the lives
of Luther, Knox and Wesley. Earnestness
and truth are both blessed.

“By devoting ourselves wholeheartedly to
the three things that I have mentioned, i. e.,
personal character, a plan of life, and the
quality of your life,” continued the speaker,
“we will lead lives which will take us to a
plane of higher living. Some may think
that all I have said is only theoretical, and
nothing practical, but one- must think of the
possibilities of man. God and man both |

have a reality in life. We see our tasks as!
growing individuals, and that task is to

lead a Christ-life.” H
“The country is calling for men to match

her mountains and to match her plains,” said |
Mr. Bobbitt in conclusion, ‘and I believe |
that this body is called upon to. meet ay

challenge.” |

Sappentield, representing the Fresh, spoke

next expressing his enjoyment of the occa-
sion and said that since the Sophs had
trained the Fresh so well he would take his
seat. Piggy immediately replied that he
should thank the Board of Control for hav-
ing any seat left.

Johnny Smith, the Junior representative,
then told a joke, after which Bascom Sor-
rells, the Senior Class President, expressed
his appreciation of the work the class had
done in adopting the Court of Control.
Martin then announced the results of the
class elections: Chang McIlwaine, president ;
Bub Oeland, vice-president; and Zander Mc-
Alister, secretary and treasurer. Mac Beall,
the retiring president, and McIlwaine each
said a few words.

The class then sang the Class Song, writ-
ten by Purdy and Williams, to the tune of
College Ties, after which O! Davidson was
sung and the class yell given. The class
then adjourned to Keith’s where an enjoy-
able evening was spent. Piggy Martin and
Shorty Howell closing the program with a
special act.

The success of the program is due in
large measure to A. M. Martin, the toast-
master, who by his quick tongue and ready
wit made the program what it was.

McIlwaine, the director of the banquet,
and Oeland, the secretary and treasurer,
handled the business end while H. B. Pricey”
R. O. Sellars, J. A. Lake, W. C. Ramsey,
A. C. McIntyre, G. A. McLean, N. G. Pat-
terson, and M. S. Beall handled the difficult
job of collecting the money for the affair.

D
WHEREUPON
“Oh, my!" she exclaimed impatiently,

“we'll be sure to miss the first act. We've
eben waiting a good many minutes for that
mother of mine.”

“Hours, you should say,” he repiled rather
tartly.

“Ours?” she cried joyously.
this is sudden.”—E.rchange.
D

lresh—Ever hear the story about the
golden fleece?

Soph—No, do they bite?

“Oh’ George,
L

BETTER SERVICE

RALPH'S

BARBER SHOP
New Location
KNOX BUILDING

SSSSSSEIIT HESS See Sass

LTTE

lege cap that you can’t

of Williams’.

best.

| The Professor passed him
immediately

T was the first question in the course on Shav-
ing—‘‘Why is the handy cap nota handicap?”’
and thestudent replied, ‘‘Because it can’t get lost.’”

He referred, of course, to the Williams’
Hinged Cap which you see pictured here. This
invention puts an end for all time to the nuis-
ance of hunting for lost caps.
Williams’ cap is hinged on.

Williams’ Shaving Cream is as pleasantly
better as the new cap.
For Williams’ is the fast-
est beard softener know
and, in addition, it is of
distinct benefit to the
skin. Try giving your
face the wholesome care
It makes
you look and feel. your

As you see, the
It’s the only col-

.

lose.

Notice thehinged
cap. Youcan't
lose it—and the
tube hangs up!

n

