4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS...-.--..-- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE..---..Managing Editor

DAVIDSON EXHIBITS POWER-
FUL OFFENSIVE

(Continued from page 1)
drix shot a pass over the line to Wells, who

made 24 yards on the play. The same play.

5-yard line. Here the Carolina team held

|

gained 13 yards and placed the ball on the |

| Open Forum

Exchanges

| This department is conducted by the editor,
|for the benefit of those members of the stu-
dent body, or faculty, who desire to express

the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
that the column will be con-

| during th
Davidsonian sta

their opinions on any matter which might arise |

like a stone wall and Popsy Hunt was called | ducted for the betterment of compus life, and

The Technique, of Georgia Tech, ran an
editorial last week exhorting all Tech men
to turn from the “mental decay of profan-
ity.”—Flat Hat.

on. With Black holding the ball, Popsy
booted a placement from the 20-yard mark.

After the kickoff and an interchange of
punts, Carolina marched 68 yards to a touch-
doown, After Carolina kicked off came Da-
vidson’s third chance to score. Davidson
rushed the ball from the 15-yard line to the
43-yard mark and there the Tar Heels held.
On the third down Hunt kicked a high spiral
which fell dead on Carolina’s 5-yard line.

| vidson gaining 35 yards on the exchange.
|On the first play Davidson was penalized for

| holding and the ball was placed on the 40- |

! yard line. Davis received a pass for a 5-yard
|gain, but the next two were grounded. On
| the fourth down Black passed to Sappenfield,
{who shot down the sidelines 20 yards, but
|failed to make first down by a foot. The
| whistle blew for the half before another play
lcottld be run.

Fi A. LAKE... Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD.....-.-.-- Associate Editor
. B. PRICE..._-Assistant Managing Editor A, C. WILDMAN.... -Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY Athletic Editor W. M. COX A e Editor
J. M. SELSER-_-..- eanut Parcher Editor O. J. ALLISON.-.--.------.----Alumni Editor
Business Staff
Biel Pp STOR Yeccsssuscceutemacsuoss Subscription K. S. McALPIN-.-...---.--.-Service Manager
WATT McCAIN-_. -Circulation Manager -----Bookkeeper
J. A. THOMPSO Assistant Manager --Service Department |
W. H. LYNCH... 4 ee Wie RPSHOUG Hie eee Advertising

Lelachucavcscnca Ly Ptat
J. M. GARRISON... ------------Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WATT McCAIN, Manager

EDITORIAL

ON THE WAY OF LIFE

“Curve right” and “curve left” flash vividly before the autoist’s eye |
whenever he travels in North Carolina. In the development of the best |
highway system in America, the officials of North Carolina have not
neglected their duty in posting properly the routes of travel. These
“sharp curves ahead” signs are posted to protect the lives of hurrying
travelers.

“Danger—Railroad Crossing,” and “Danger—Crossroads” signs gov-
ern conflict between vehicles. “Road under repair—Detour” signs protect
the tourist from pitfalls and worn spots. Roads are marked, highways
and routes are numbered, distinations are emblazoned on direction arms—
to guide the cautious traveler.

The statesmen and legislators have done no mere for the highways of
North Carolina than the Creator has done for the road of life. Narrow
and long as it may be, the pathway that leads through the years is a well
posted one; torturous and winding though it be, there are directions
printed everywhere to guide the traveler safely to his destination.

The pious examples set by other men, the sad misfortunes and mis-
takes that befall the other fellow, the counsel and advice imparted by
those who have lived and learned—are they not sign posts on the way of
life, pointing out the pit-falls and treacherous spots where human life is
endangered ?

The highway signs of North Carolina are ignored by the general
traveling public, but for the benefit of those whose observing eye searches
for a guiding finger, the posting system is maintained.

The human mass that surges down that great highway whose mile-
Stones are centuries, is little observant of the danger signs posted for
them; yet this greatest of all posting systems is maintained in the strictest
faith. oa) @

Will you hear an appeal, men of Davidson, to follow the directions
posted along the way that every man must travel? At a time when you
are forming habits that you will follow the rest of your life, make a place
in your character for the observance of direction arms and detour signs.
Tae your eye on the pointers of life, and travel the treacherous highway
safely.

D
EDITOR DANIELS
“Will you please present my compliments to the members of your
Association with my thanks for tte honor they have done me by regarding
me as a young enough editor to attend convention and sit at their feet and
learn of them as well as talk with them.” These were the words of the
Hon. Josephus Daniels, to the President of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association. Mr. Daniels is regarded by the college editors of the
state as one of North Carolina’s most illustrious men, as one of the South’s
greatest editors, and as a brilliant thinker. “The Methodist Conference
at Elizabeth City is the only thing that prevents me joining with you in the
consideration of problems which interest all of us,” he said, in declining
the offer to speak at the Trinity convention last week.
D

_ We can cite one evidence at least that the college man of America is
Improving in gentlemanly qualities. Davidson men are giving up the
pleasure of smoking at the weekly movie show.

' D.

oe Ney ; F
The water situation is acute, yet it offers a splendid excuse for non-
performance of duty in a few alleged cases.

are two members of the Freshman class who
are showing excellent form. They are Jones
and Webb, both of whom promise to give a
good account of themselves in the trails

CROSS COUNTRY RUNNERS
SHOW SPLENDID FORM

For the past month each afternoon has

| At the opening of the third period the
| Wildcats made their fourth bid for victory.
| Hunt returned the kick-off to the 23-yard
|line and Wells and Black rushed it to mid-
| field. Hunt punted 49 yards out of bounds
on Carolina's 3-yard line. McDonald punt-
ed out of bounds on the 31-yard line, David-

WHARTON DS Vice-Pres, FRREN, J ie yh th, ia |son gaining 21 yards on the exchange. Three
AARON J tp Sec'y-Treas, MARSHALL c K. ROGERS, G, D. | plays made it first down on the 20-yard line.
BEALL, McP, Ss. MILTON, W. E. STORY, P. J. Three plays gained 9 yards and on the fourth
Boe AY MONK NORE, P. WILLTAMS, ‘a M. |down Carolina recovered a Davidson fumble |

on the 16-yard line. Carolina worked the
hall to midfield and after an interchange of
punts made their second score.:

In the final period Carolina again ad-
vanced’ the ball into Davidson territory, but
Faison intercepted a pass and ran 18 yards to
the 30-yard line. The game then resolved
itself into a punting duel with Buck and
Hunt having a slight edge on McDonald.
Buck punted to Shirley, who returned to the
26-yard line. Two penalties forced Carolina
back to the 5-yard line and McDonald punted
to the 40-yard mark. — Sappenfield passed to
Buck for a 25-yard gain. Two plays netted
no gain. Covington substituted for Hunt
and dodged through the line for 8 yards.
Wells made it first down on the 5-yard line,
Covington was thrown for a 2-yard loss as
the whistle blew. The game ended with the
balt in Davidson's possession on the 7-yard
line and three downs in which to put it
across.

Five Davidson regulars did not start the

center; DeArmon, fullback, and Shepherd,
halfback, were missing, from the Davidson
line-up. Tom Baker was also out of the
game. On the opening kick-off, Hodgin, the
Davidson left tackle, had his leg broken
above the ankle.

For Carolina, Bonner and McDonald were
the bright lights in the backfield, while Ford-
ham and Mclver broke through to throw the
Wildcat backs. Hendrix played a wonderful
game for Davidson. He ran his team like a
veteran, tore through tackle and around end
for long gains, and threw forward passes
with bullet-like accuracy. When his leg was
hurt, Sappenfield took his place at quarter.
and handled’ the team well, starring both on
the sending and receiving end of forward
passes. Wells was the chief gainer for the
Red and Black. . He circled the ends, bucked
the line, dug his way through tackle, and re-
ceived forward passes for a net gain of 77
yards. Boggs and Lindamood were the out-
standing stars in the line. They made the
majority of the tackles and few plays were
run over them.

The Red and Black Machine played the
best game of- the season. The interference
on the end runs and tackle plays paved the
way for the Wildcat gains. The Wildcat
line, shot to pieces by injuries, averaged
slightly over 155 pounds to the man.

The line-up and summary follows:

Carolina (14) (3) Davidson

that the students will express themselves freely

{and enter into open-hearted discussions
| campus problems. e names of the writers
| will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. All articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the
Monday.)

Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.

! Davidson men are known everywhere for
ltheir gentlemanly conduct and their respect
for the Church and interest in its services.
| However, there have been some things hap-
pening at Church during the Sunday morning

McDonald punted to the 22-yard line, Da- services for the past month or two that |

would certainly blot that reputation if they
| were widely known.

The things which I have observed and
| which I will now mention occurred in the
Sophomore section; whether or not the other
classes are guilty of them I do not know.

Every Sunday morning several students take |

| books, magazines, Sunday newspapers, comic
sheets, ctc., to Church and read them during
the services. Others amuse themselves dur-
jing the sermon by punching and slapping
those around them. And then, at the close
of the services when the audience rises for
the last hymn, many, usually those who are
guilty of the above, crowd into the aisle and
stand there talking, laughing, and jostling
| one another as though they were at a circus
‘or a football game. Then, as soon as the

benediction is pronounced, they rush down |

the aisle, pushing and shoving like cattle
|rushing out of a pen.

son?
{should see people. going to church with
novels,. magazines, and comic papers? And
what should we think of college men who
will strike and punch cach other
'Chureh services? Such conduct could pos-
sibly be overlooked in children of kinder-
)garten age, but among college men it shows,
to say the least, irreverence and very poor
taste. If we care nothing for the services,
and go only because we are compelled, we
|should at least have enough respect for the
| sanctity of the Church and enough common

|

courtesy not to disturb those around us who |

are trying to be attentive.

on |

during |

On the basis of schedules prepared by 200
students, Dartmouth College has worked out
lan estimate of the division: of time made by
| the average undergraduate at Dartmouth.

| The results show that he works nine hours
|a day and sleeps eight and a quarter hours.
| His itemized account of, time spent in recrea-
| tion shows a total of five and one-half hours
| daily, That leaves one hour and a quarter
unaccounted for, which probably can be added
to the total given under recreation —Yellow
| Jacket Weekly-Randolph-Macon.

The Department of Military Science and
Tactics has received a nicely illustrated pos-
| ter showing the advantages of a tour of serv-
fice in the United States Army; the induce-
|ments are considerable, to wit: “A bounty
lof twelve dollars, an annual and fully suffi-
jcient supply of good handsome clothing, a
daily allowance of a largé and ample ration
provision, together with sixty dollars a year
in gold and silver money.”

Lest there be such a stampede to embrace
‘this opportunity as would depopulate A. &
M. we hasten to explain that the poster is a
| facsimile of a recruiting poster of General
| Washington in 1776 and posted publicly in
Spotswood in Middlesex County, Virginia.
|The facsimile is posted on the bulletin board
in the cafeteria—The Reflector.

Fellows, is this conduct worthy of David- |
What would a stranger think if he)

Learn to govern—Temper, Tongue and
Conduct.

Learn to love—Courage, Gentleness and
, Affection.
Learn to avoid—Cruelty, Arrogance and
| Ingratitude. y

Learn to delight in—Frankness, Freedom
;and Beauty.

Learn to wish for—Health, Friends and a
| Cheerful Spirit.

Learn to respect—Honor,
Home.

Country and

|
|

—Yellow Jacket.

| In chapel Monday morning, Dean Brad-

These practices should receive the con-| shaw presented two issues to the student
|demnation of every right-thinking student, jody, one pleasant and the other unpleasant.
and if they continue, more vigorous meas-| fie urged that every man take some part in
{ures should be taken. Those students cer- ithe mass athletics that are now being con-

|tainly are not true to the Davidson Spirit, | ducted by the University. Since 95 per cent

seen the squad from which the men that will
represent Davidson in the annual cross-coun-
try meet will be chosen, holding their daily
practice. The men are getting in fine shape
and from the material on hand the prospects
look good.

“Led by Captain Striebich, the old men back
from. last- year are Selser, Williford, .Mc-
-Connell, Mathews, Rogers, and Adanis, all
of whom are remembered from their last
year’s records. In addition .to these there

|

which are to be run off just before Thanks-
giving. :

From the results of the trials the five men
who show up best will be chosen to make up
this year’s team. These five, including Cap-
tain Striebich, and with Manager McComb,
will make the trip to Raleigh, where they will
represent. Davidson in competition with the
major colleges of the state. Carolina, State,
Trinity and Wake Forest ‘will be their op-
ponents.

Right Halfback

Mortisy(G): cise ec Davis | Fullback
Left End Substitutions: Carolina, Devin for Ran-
Matthews) S223 Sse iim Hodgin |dolph, Street for Hawfield, Hawfield for |
Left Tackle Street, Blanton for Shirley, Underwood for
Pointdexter ~-____ ie eres Rs Vance | Devin, Devin for Underwood, Jackson for
Left Guard Fordham, Street for Hawfield, Shepherd for
MGI versnnes tee ee nerenn ern Tue W. Cox | Lineberger, Epstein for. Morris, Shirley for
Center Bonner. Davidson: Hunt for Buck, An-
ordhiam 2220 sean eas Boggs | derson for Hodgin, Patterson for Anderson,
Right Guard Sappenfield for Hendrix, Dearmon for Hunt,
Hawfield = {23> =sires stags Lindamood | Hendrix for Sappenfield, Hunt for Dear-
Right Tackle : mon, Anderson for Patterson, Long for
Shepard = Faison (C.) | Vance, Dearmon for Black, Covington for
Right End ; Buck, Long for Patterson, Lewis for Vance.
McDonald Hendrix! Score by periods: |
Quarterback Davidson esses Se 3 0 0 0-3
Bonner a en Wells‘ Necth: Carolina -.--..---.-.0 7 0 7—14
Left Halfback Referee, Gooch, Virginia; umpire, Izard,
Underwood Black | W. and L.; head linesman, Perry, Sewanee.

|and they should be made to realize that their
,conduct will no longer be tolerated.
|

’

game, Summers and Laird, tackles; Fields, |

INSTRUCTIVE TALK GIVEN BY
| PROFESSOR FLEAGLE

| The meeting held by the Ministerial Band
| last Sunday was exceptionally good. One of
| the main features of the musical program
|was the quartette composed of members of
|the band. Its success is due to the faithful
work of Piggy Martin, with Stewart and
J. A. and J. H. Calligan as his assistants.
| Professor Fleagle addressed the meeting,
using as his topic, The Social Program of
Christianity, “For the past twenty-five
years,” he said, ‘men have been studying so-
ciety, trying to change things for better.
Christianity is a distinctly underlying social
force.” His remarks were of a most prac-
tical and instructive nature. He said that
the development of society came either from
foresight and plans or in a rather hit-or-miss
| fashion.

by Christianity he named the home, the com-
munity and the state. Among the factors
named under these heads, Professor Fleagle
stated that the home assures stability and
makes love, the binding force; that the com-
munity stands for equal opportunities, and
that the state believes in maintaining Chris-
| tian principles in public life.

Randolph

As the three social institutions recognized |

| of college men become engaged in secretarial
| pursuits it is necessary that they be trained
ito take exercise after working hours, in order
that they may keep physically fit.

The unpleasant issue was that more care
be taken of the dormitory corridors and
window panes and that the throwing of paper
on the campus be avoided.—The Tar Heel.

|

|

Half a million copies of the Bible in the
Japanese language are now being printed in
the United States. They are for the earth-
quake sufferers and will be shipped to Japan
as soon as possible.—Purple and White.

Three Aggie teams playing a week ago
suffered a total of five yards in penalties in
their three games. The Freshmen got that
on off-side in the first play of their game.
That ought to be mighty near a record,
especially since one game was a hard fought
tie and another was a defeat by a very close
margin.—The Reflector.

As we have gathered in rich harvest fron
Thy fields,
As we have taken lovely fruits from bending
| trees, +
| So gather Thou, O God, Thanksgiving from
our hearts;
So take Thou gratitude from those on
- bended knees.
—The Yellow Jacket.

It is not the man who never fails, but the
man who rises after each failure, that wears
the crown of honor and success.—The Re-
flector.

HE LOVES SCREEN STARS

Within the past three years David Pow-
ell has been permitted to make love to the
following famous beauties: Mary Pickford,
Elsie Ferguson, Bebe Daniels, Nita Naldi,
Irene .Castle,) Mae Murray, Alice Brady,
Marguerite Courtot, Dorothy Dalton and
Gloria Swanson. Now he is doing likewise
with Alice Joyce in “The Green Goddess,’
the Distinctive Pictures Corporation’s won-
derful production of the play of the same
name which is to be shown at the Y. M. C.
A. Theatre Saturday. Se

He gets paid for doing it, but says if liv-
ing wasn’t so expensive in New York, he

Time of quarters 15 minues each.

would work for nothing.
