THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

Town News |

An entertainment in honor of the new,
faculty members and their families was,
given in the library Saturday night, |
October 20th at eight o’clock. Dr. T.
W. Lingle was the master = of. cere-!
monies. Dr. W. J. Martin first gave a
hearty welcome to the new faculty mem-
bers. Professor Porter, who made quite
an extensive tour in the West, gave a
short talk about his trip. Professor
Goldiere also made a talk about his}
trip to Cuba. Professor Blythe told of
his interesting travel in Spain.

Dr. Shaw, of Charlotte and Miss
Pierce, librarian of the Charlotte public
library, guests of Miss Cornelia Shaw,
were present at the faculty party.

Mr. James Grey, a Davidson alumnus,
and his bride were guests of Doctor and
Mrs. Grey last Sunday.

An event of interest will be the mar-
miage of Mr. James Blue and Miss
Mildred Hobbs at the Presbyterian
Church Thursday night, October the
twentieth,

Mrs Sallie Paisley motored over to
Statesville Sunday afternon,

Miss Kathryn Gillis, of Statesville,
spent the week-end with Miss Mary
Hamilton, of Davidson. |

Miss McQueen, of Wilmington, is vis- |
iting her niece, Mrs. F..L. Jackson, of
Davidson,

|

Miss Eloise Martin spent the week- |
end in Charlotte.

Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies, Jr., spent the
week-end in Charlotte.

Misses Maxwell and Stokes, of Penn-
sylvania, who have been the guests of
Mrs. M. H. Ellis, will return to their
homes Friday.

The Book-Lovers Club met at the
home of Mrs. T. W. Lingle on last Fri-
day evening. Interesting talks were
made by Dr. W. R. Grey and Professor
Blythe.

George Robson, former Davidson stu-
dent and son of Mrs. Alice Robson, in
charge of the infirmary, is leading his
class at the University of Pennsylvania
in scholastic work. He is studying med-
icine, and his grades are the highest in
his division, composed of two hundred
and fifty students,

Mrs. Archibald Currie, was in Wil-
mington a short time ago, attending a

meeting of the North Carolina Synodi-
cal,

Mrs. I. M. Clift, of Miami, Fla., will ar-
rive in Davidson some time this week
for a visit to Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Ar-
buckle.

Yes, we have good things
to eat

The Misses Schofield

FEEDS?

SEE

W. B. BARNETTE

AND CO.

We specialize in Shoes
and Hose for College Men

Announcing Our New

Location Near Post Office

NORTON 9 BARBER

SHOP

| til one o’cleck, at intervals of one hour, | down.

/him have been installed throughout the line.
| buildings.

dormitories, Watts, East and West.

BETTER FIRE PROTECTION |

WILDCATS BOW
ASSURED THE COLLEGE | —

re | (Continued from page 5)
Better fire protection for Davidson! mood, gained sixteen more and first down,
students and all campus buildings was| putting the ball on the 20 yard line. This
installed this week when the new sys-|was Davidson”’s chance to score, but Wake
tem of clock patrols was put into opera-| Forest intercepted a pass, bringing the ball
tion by Mr. VanSant, the local plant en- | to the 44 yard line. First down was made
gineer. land after the next play the quarter ended.
Four students have been employed to! Score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.
make regular trips through the buildings, Fourth Quarter: Wake Forest made first
of the campus every night. The watch-| down, but failing to make the required ten
men of the night are F. T. Franklin, O.) in four plays, the ball went over to David-
M. Brown, R. T. Kimzey, and F, H. Lind-| son. Gaining nine yards in three trials, Dav-
ley. These men began their work Mon-| idson chose to kick, Shepherd punting 45
day night. Every night, from nine un-| yards. Karleskint made 18 yards and first
| Rackley clipped off fifteen more
each buildings is visited and inspected. over left tackle for another first down, The
From two until six o’clock another watch | Baptists gained six more, but Black inter-
starts by a relief man. The system calls|cepted a pass on Davidson's 6. yard line.
for each watcher during five hours every | McComb carried the ball four consecutive
other night throughout the college year.| times, making first down. After two trials
Each v receive $12.50 per month for} Shepherd punted to Griffin, who fumbled,
his services. : | Faison recovering the ball on Wake Forest’s
Twenty stations with keys for the |40 yard line. In attempting a forward pass
; | Wake Forest intercepted it on her 34 yard
Wake Forest made first down on
ithree plays, and Rackley skirted left end for
22 yards more and first down. On the next
play the game ended.
Final score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

clock which the watchman carries with

The older buildings, Rumple,
Georgia, Louisiana and Concord, have
more patrol stations than the fire-proof

Parato (G6): cussusscutuesecucususs Davis
BIBLE CLASSES HELD IN EACH pijerhe 2.-----0-----s---- Lindamood
DORMITORY L. T. ;
_—_— VOhNSON: S282 Se See eieaeeass sears oese Long
Sunday morning the Bible discussion eG
groups held under the direction of the | Emerson ~------------------------- Fields
Y. M. C. A. were started. These classes | Cc.

are held on every floor of each dormitory | LEGA yeeaeouc cenanenaaeere aaceeose Boggs

with the exception of Rumple. Here the} R. G.
second and third floors on each side and! Moran ~--------------------------- Laird
the two first floors mect together. | R. T. ;

They are held for and by the students | Daniel LS SIS TABS AE Ss Faison (C)
every Sunday morning at ten o'clock. | R. E. F
It has been the custom in the last two Rackley ------------------------ Hendrix
years for them to be held on week nights, | : Q. B. :
but it was thought that a better attend- | Greason lt Shepherd
ance could be had on Sunday. | H. B.

; Giifliitpsesssssessoereae cer sstseeee= Black

An attendance committee has been ap- H. B.
pointed by Harry Price, which is help- | es steskint Bae ae DeAvnen
ing to enroll the students and will help | FB
in keeping up the attendance. So far). gy, pentodet oe Total
the figures as to the enrollment are not)”. i an
avaiite but a large number have signi- UNRUH eee Wy

: AWG HOrest cupscausuuscees 6 0 0 0—O

fied their intention to attend.

“The subject of the study is Student
Standards of Action and a text-book of |
that name is used. This is a general dis-
cussion of student problems as seen by
men who have finished college.

Professor Fleagle conducts a Leaders’
Training Class for the teachers every
Wednesday night at nine-thirty o’clock
in Shearer Hall.

Scoring : Touchdown, Greason Wake For-
est. ;
Substitutions: Davidson: Hodgin for
Laird; Hunt for DeArmon; Covington for
Hunt; DeArmon for Covington; Cox for
Boggs; Laird for Hodgin; Hodgin for
| Lindamood; McComb for DeArmon; Sap-
penfield for Hendrix; Sapp for McComb.
|Wake Forest: Armstrong for Griffin;
{Riley for Daniels; Jones for Johnson;

E.M, Regen, the Y. M. C. A. chairman | Griffin for Armstrong; Daniels for Riley;
of Bible study, has appointed a strong Green for Ellerbe; Ellington for Griffin;
group of leaders for this work. Follow- Sykes for Karleskint.
ing is the list: Officials: Izard, Washington and Lee,
East Dormitory: referee: Whitaker, N. C. State, umpire;
1. Major Clemson, headlinesman and time-

Ist floor—Smnith, J. e ety
keeper. Time of periods 15 minutes.
|

2nd tloor—Gibbs, L. B.

{CAMPUS LEADERS. SELECTED
BY OMICRON DELTA KAPPA |

(Continued from page 1)
of the Metrophilian Literary Society.
This fall he has won’ fame with his
“Ponzi” skill in handling the finances of
the football team. :

The leadership of this year’s baseball
team depends on Boushee. The past
three years have seen him hurling the
leather sphere from the mound, two years
as a scrub pitcher and the past year.as
the main stand-by of the varsity. His
berth on the Senior class basketball team
this year is practically assured which
will place two years of class basketball
to his credit. In addition to these ath-
letic attainments Boushee is rounding
his college career by a high scholastic
standing: :

W. F. Galloway ran the eight eighty
his Sophomore year in the fastest time
in the South, and by doing so won the
coveted D in track. Since then, how-
ever, Galloway has turned his efforts in-
to literary channels. As Editor of the
D. C. Magazine he has plans which. will
make it one of the best publications of
its kind in the South. He has also dis-
tinguished himself as a member of the
Dramatic Club and has maintained a
good scholastic average, being on the
honor roll the past year. He is a val-
uable Davidsonian man.

The success of the Quips and Cranks
of this year will rest on the shoulders
of W. M. Heston. But Bill has not con-
fined himself to the annual alone. For
‘the past two years he has served on the
Davidsonian staff. His literary and lin-
guistic abilities have made him a mem-
ber of Sigma Upsilon and president of
the Spanish Club but it is by his versatile
pen that he is best known, He designed
the decorations for the gymnasium at
the past Junior Speaking and his draw-
ings have been heading the different de-
partments of-Quips and Cranks for the
past two issues.

Old members of O. D., K. are:

Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. M. E. Sen-
telle, Dro W. R. Grey, A. L. Currie, Dr. W.
J. Martin, &. W. Hengeveldt, F. L. Jack-
son, Dr. J. M. Douglass, Dr. T. W. Lingle,
W. T. Jones, C. M. Davis, E. S. Faison,
A. M. Hillhouse, J. I. Smith, L. D Elkins.

“y” SPONCERS SUNDAY
‘ SCHOOLS IN COUNTRY

a manifestation of
renewed (interest in the “Y” Sunday
School work, Every Sunday afternoon
there are about 20 students who wend
their ways to their respective Sunday
Schools. In almost every Sunday School
there is an increase in attendance.
At Shearer Church last Sunday there
were 72 present which is an increase over
| the average attendance. The students
{who go to this Sunday School are: For-
| rest Franklin, Archey Ray, Dope Mathe-

There has been

son, Burns Gibbs, Blackey Rayburn,
Frederick Smith, J. W. Crinkley and:G.
M. Morrow. Franklin leads the singing.

Piggy Martin with the help of Mof-
fett and Harry Price ix,doing a good
work at the convict camp. Piggy reports
that there seems to be an awakening of
interest among men. The au-
dience is continually changing and that
makes it a difficult field to work in.

Tag Guiton is in charge of the group
which goes to Cornelius. Barr leads the
singing. The others who help Guiton
are Parker, Williford and McMillan.
Last Sunday there was an attendance of
87. The new church building will soon
be completed and that will make it pos-
sible to accomodate more pupils.

J. C* McJunkin is the student leader
at Hobson’s Chapel which was formerly
known as Brawley’s School House. Lay-
ton Greene leads the singing and teaches
one of the classes. There is an average
attendance of 65. However, 75 more
were present last Sunday.

The work at the mill chapel was well
attended last Sunday. Mr. Jackson has
charge of this work and Marion Mur-
ray is the student leader.

these

College men like to do
things on the run!

Not much time to do their
shopping---

There’s where we shine!

Weare ready at a moments
notice. Everything that’s
needed -- smart and correct
Fall suits, overcoats, shoes,
oxfords, hats and furnish-
ings.

MELLON’S

8-10 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

3rd floor—Oeland, R. W. |

4th floor—Lake, J. A.
West Dormitory:
Ist floor—Stith, M. C.
2nd floor—Brownh, C. V.
ard floor—Gracey, W. M.
4th floor—Laws, J. D.
Georgia Dormitory:
Ist floor—Gallent, J. B.
2nd floor—Phlegar, D. S. :
3rd floor—Walker, J. R. : Tralee
Watts:
Ist floor—Regen, E. K.
2nd floor—Patterson, N. G.
3rd _ floor—Price, H. B.
| 4th floor—Murray, M. J.
Rumple:
Ist floor—McBride, A. M. .
2nd and 3rd floors East—McLean, J. L.|
2nd and 3rd floors West—Hodgin, C. FE. |
North Barracks—White, H. M.
South Baracks—McJunkin, J. C. |
Louisiana—Hudgins, A. P.

|
|

SEVERAL MEN ON SICK LIST |
FOR PAST WEEK |

Malady finds an inhospitable host |
| when he knocks on a Sophomore’s door. |
| This was the only class not represented |
‘at the hospital last week.

Mason Field was there for a reason
known to all Davidson men. W. M.
| Hesten ‘the’ other Senior became so
| seriously ill that it was necessary to re-

move him to a Charlotte hospital. It is

Always Something Good
: Ea

t

‘o Eat
‘NEW YORK CAFE

ne

ja pleasure to announce that he is much
|improved. R. G. White was the Juniors’
representative. Freshmen W. J. Flem;
ing, G. N. Turner and L. P. Wilkinson
suffered abdominal pains. It seems that
their digestive organs were somewhat

DAVIDSON

overtaxed.

“What a difference
just afew cents make!

