6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

—

STUDENTS ARE ORGANIZED

—

The initiation was followed by the regular |

won by Gracey and Wharton over Singletary

Captain Weailis Abie Appointed Chief of | and McLeod; and by an unusually good ora-

College Fire Fire Department

tion delivered from Angus McBryde.
Immediately after the program a bountiful

The plans for tire tude student fire department | feed dazzled the new members, the pleasures
are fast nearing completion. Captain Weems ies which were shared by the old men.

is chief fire marshall, having as his assis- |
tants Lieutenant George, Mr. Van Sant and |

A. M. Hillhouse. Mr. Van Sant will have
charge of the equipment house.

The old power house has been remodelled
to house the new fire fighting apparatus.
The equipment will include a hose cart and
five hundred feet of hose, several ladders,
two of which will reach the top story of any
of the buildings on the campus, a chemical
cart with fifty feet of hose (this cart will
have a fifty gallon tank on it), several Py-
renes, a number of which will be mounted on
a cart so that they can be carried to the
upper floors, and one hundred heavy galvan-
ized iron buckets which will be kept full of
water at all times.

Mr. Van Sant states that most of this
equipment has arrived and that the chemical
apparatus which has not yet come is ex-
pected this week.

In addition to these preventatives another
important step is being taken to supply two
night watchmen. These watchmen, when on
duty, will have their headquarters in the
hew power house. The night will be di-
vided between them in such a way that one
will inspect every building on the campus
once every hour during his time of duty.
These men will carry a regular watchmin’s
clock with them which will be punched to
show at what hour a certain building was
last inspected. These men will also have a
key to the bell tower and one to the equip-
ment house. It shall be their duty in case
of fire to immediately sound the alarm and
to open the doors of the fire house.

In the building housing the equipment there

Various stunts in the initiation, including

several impromptu speeches, revealed much |

talent and promise in those who took part.

A flourishing Junior Society was organized
and Friday evening set as the date of their
meetings. In membership, this class more
than doubles that of last year; in future
promise it is certainly unsurpassed on the
hill.

Of interest is the fact that this society
represents the states of Virginia, West Vir-
ginia, Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and
both the Carolinas.

WHAT?’S THE MATTER WITH
THE POETICAL GENIUSES

Walthall Abandons Poetry and Pro-
duction Ceases

Why should the campus,
world be in such dreaded sympathy ?
should Jupiter and his spouse, Mnemosyne,
mourn that their beloved daughters, Thalia,
the muse of pastoral poetry, and Calliope,
the muse of heroic poetry, have hung their
heads in failure? Many have been those
who attempted to follow after them, breath-
ink forth their rhymes, sonnets and poems in
sweeter melodies than even the birds peal
forth on the morning air. The liquid notes
of the song birds are no longer made ex-
pressive so that they may be preserved and
handed down to future generations in the
form of poetry.
about to realize their highest ideal in Wal-
thall. Virgil travelled over the world and

yea, the entire,

Why |

The two poetic muses were |

gave his inspiration to us in the form of
verse and the muses were made glad. Shakes-
peare in his beautiful melodrama filled the
sweet sisters with joy. the most
representative poet of was aglow

will be a light burning all night. Under this
light there will be a switch which, when
turned on, will illumine the whole building
so that the apparatus can be gotten out
easily, There will be certain rules which

Tennyson,
his age,

must be obeyed when bringing the equip-
ment out for a fire. These will be demon-
strated at the several fire drills we shall
have throughout the year,

SMITH ELECTED CHIEF
MARSHALL BY EUMENEANS

The Eumenean Literary Society held a
very important meeting on Thursday even-
ing, October 4th. The most important busi-
ness_accomplished was the election of J. I.
Smith to the position of chief marshall for
the literary societies.

After the regular business of the meeting
was finished, 13 Freshmen and one upper
classman were clected to membershtip in
the society.

The initiation of the new members was
followed by a big feed which had been ar-
ranged by a committee consisting of R. R.
Jones and A, C. Wildman.

The names of the new members are:” L.
H. Leathers, B. C. Bell, P. B. Bost, G. Mc-
Millan, Jr., W. H. Dodge, T. G. McCutchen,
T. T. Jones, P. F. Jones, V. S. Broyles, W.
A. Christian, J. P. Gladney, J. K. Smith,
K. S. McAlpine, and F. K. Bell.

METROPHILIANS TAKE
FRESHMAN MEMBERS

By initiating probably the largest single
class of new men that any of the four so-
cieties has taken in since their reorganization
three years ago, the Metrophilians celebrated
their second regular meeting of the new
year. About 25 men were enrolled.

with that humanitarian enthusiasm and on |

fire with a feeling of love for his fellowman.
He gave his thoughts in form
Vachel Lindsay was about to write heroic
poetry when he told us of the Calliope and
the Gypsy Maid.

of

All these great poets: were representative
ones, and the poctic muses were proud of
them. But what appears to have been about
to be the culmination of all poetic endeavor
was the great works of Walthall. Hour
after hour he spent with the muses, dwelling
in their innermost beings and then being
aglow with that ardent inspiration made it

expressive in his marvelous little love lyrics. |

Glancing through his works the poem to
“Peggy on her Thirteenth Birthday” stands
out very prominently.

is called “To a Fairy.” Just call around and
have an interview with him about his won-
derful achievements as a poet.

But again, why should the muses be sad?
Why should the world mourn? It is all be-
cause Walthall has abandoned poetry and
the production of poetry has ceased. No

more shall the pages of the Magazine be |

adorned by lyrics from his famous pen.
Never again shall we see his drama _pre-
sented, as was Shakesperean drama in the
sixteenth century. The solution of the mys-
tery of “A. D. S.”
tempted for the writer heard from truthful
sources that A. D. S. too, had abandoned !
poetry and was directing his literary genius |
along other lines. What shall we do?

these gallant young poets to continue in the

beautiful work most fitted for them, and not |

SHIRTS
CAPS
HATS

HEADQUARTERS FOR
FLORSHEIM SHOES

SWEATERS OF ALL KINDS

FURNISHINGS FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

, ed DAVIDSON, N. C.

HANES

AND

TOPKIS
UNDERWEAR

verse, |

But his most recent ;
poem, later than the last edition of his works |

will no longer be at- |

The |
whole student body en masse should petition |

|

| poems to turn our thoughts away from the
heavines of college duties to a fairyland of
happiness and joy and bliss.

WILDCATS FIGHT V. P. I.

(Continued from page 1)

the line, and made it the impassable ob-
stacle that the Gobblers couldn’t pass.
Baker, Cox, Vance, Laird and Linda-
mood, though they weren’t in the game
for the whole game, made up for the
brevity of their periods of service by the
wildest of Wildcat fight, while they were
there. Vance and “Popsy” Hunt were
directly responsible for Sutton’s taking
his seat on the sideline.

Jim Hendrix piloted the team with the
sagacity of a veteran, and as usual was
responsible for many gains. “Gig” Shep-
herd, the old faithful, could be counted
on to clip off the desired number of yards

whenever called upon, and “Wick”
Black playing his own style of game,
was running in excellent form. “Doc”

DeArmon, the fair-haired full-back was
in the thick of it every time, and never
failed to get his man. “Flash” Coving-
ton, substituting for Hendrix suffered a
broken'nose, and only had a few min-
utes to play, but. during those few min-
utes, he lived up to his name, Hunt and
Sappenfield never missed a chance to let
themselves be heard from.

Tech Position — Davidson
GheGie lssoc sks Co eneeRe eee eae Davis
L. E.

BakGttcecus vue cosubeneeueccsuco Hodgin
Ib, “IN,

RGds be Secs os Ses aeeen See ae Long
L. G.

MOtail sescee soa, Soee eae ae Field
G;

FEIN MOCKeE ess ea Be Boggs
R. G,

Gra ati cesses oer wie ete Summers
R. T.

TAO Wee ee paar ee Faison
R. FE,

RODGRtS asesaue weno ore nee Hendrix
Q. B
Sutto nesses Se ee Black
L. H.
Buchatatveccosessserees seas Shepherd

R. H. :
DGIDARKG cass eioonea ce ope DeArmon
F. B.

Referee: Sampson, Stalbans; Umpire:
Izard, Washington and Lec; Headlines-
man: Moore, Virginia; Substitutes—
Davidson: Baker, Cox, Vance, Laird,
Lindamood, Covington, Hunt, Sappen-
field; Substitutes—Tech: Moss, Flory,
Rhodes, Leidrecht, Wetter, Pumphrey,
Beck; Touchdown: Moss; Try for Point:
Roberts, dropkick; Time of quarter

Four Thirteens.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
REPORTS

(Continued from page 1)

tioned the completion of New Watts, the
| grading that has been done, the progress
of work upon the new athletic field, the
| organization of the fire department, and
the addition of several new members to
the faculty. He stated that the building
|committee is hard at work upon plans
for the stadium, and he was optimistic
enough to say that it might be ready for
the Spring baseball games and track
contests.

The Executive Committee agreed to a
tentative arrangement whereby the pil-
jlars of Old Chambers will be preserved.
| They will stand just as they are and will
'be a memorial for years upon years to
come to the Old Chambers, which was
| built in 1854 and destroyed by fire in
| November, tg21.
| to be built a short distance behind thesé
| old pillars.
|
|tive Committee was that of fraternity

houses. The action taken was referred
| to the meeting of the Board of Trustees,
| which will be held in February. The

|

j issue is not the question of, whether

| fraternity houses shall be constructed |
or not, but it is a question as to where)!

they shall be built. In the light of cer-
tain information the Executive’ Commit-

the Board of Trustees, and have accord-
of the latter in February.

en for the publication’ of’ the Alumni
Catalogus, which is being edited by Dr.
T. W. Lingie. The material for this cat-
alogue, is about completed and
it should be issued within the next two
months. An order was also given for |
the publication of the war records of

t
let tears of mourning flow from all students
FOR FIRE FIRE PROTECTION | program, featured by a debate, which was | because of not having those most excellent | carefully prepared

Davidson students. Pete Peters, Julian Briggs; Sophomores:

Litch Hine, Frank Hudson.

SENIORS PLAN

The record has been |

by Miss Cornelia |
Shaw, librarian, and its appearnce should
follow immediately upon that of the
catalogue.

Members of the Executive Board pres- |
ent at the meeting were: Rev.

(Continued from page 1)
W. L.| have a feed on every alternate Saturday
Lingle, D.D., chairman, Richmond; S. A.| night at the different boarding houses.
Robinson, secretary, Gastonia; R. A.| There all business left over from the
Dunn, Charlotte; Rev. Byron Clark, D.| class meetings and the prospects for the

D., Salisbury; J. T. Allison, Concord,! future will be discussed.
and Smith Richardson, Greensboro. ! A committee from the class, with J.
—__—_—__—_ ‘IT. Smith, the chief marshal as chairman,
DAVIDSON DEBATERS | interviewed Doctor Martin concerning
3 i : | Senior Speaking. The president advised
(Continued from page 1)

Another bright finger of Prospectus |

‘the committees not to attempt the
| Speaking this year since the faculty was
pointing toward a good year for David-
son is the change in the financing of the

| bitterly opposed to it, and had granted
|only one day for Thanksgiving holidays.
meets. Before this year, the burden of! 116 stated also that, if any Seniors were
the intercollegiate meets has been Met | Panis to learn speaking, Profesor
by the literary societies. This year the | Dendy, of the Public Speaking Depart-
school is back of the debates and finan-| pent, would be glad to enlighten them
cing them by means of a blanket fee) oy the fine points of the art. On learn-
paid by the students upon registration. ling this) the Senior class decided! to for-
This should secure first class teams for get Senior Speaking and to turn all loose
Davidson opponents in the future. _ | talent to Stunt Night and their main ef-
The increased interest in‘ literary soci- | forts. to a bigger commencement,
eties on the Hill tends to add much to} Instead of donning the derbys and’
os Ege Decle Mos Use hi jWacht two! swinging the canes as most of the past
new societies organized within the past Senior classes have done to distinguish
few Mies students are reachec them, the class of °23 will distinguish
and develop for intercollegiate debating, themselves from the Sophomores and
teams. ; ; pee Juniors by wearing red and black camel
With the various influences pointing to
a successful year, Davidson expects

| cloth sporting sweaters.
bright year in the forensic art this year. Ibe

years,

=| Athetically, the Senior class has the
st prospects for championship teams
Spares they have had in their whole college

COURT OF CONTROL ‘course, At. all games, on and off the
(Continued from page 1) | Hill, which the student body attends,
interest. of the college. Very few Fresh- | the class intends to sit together and have
'elected a separate cheer leader for the

men have yet been reported for specific !
cases of jibing, but the majority have | Senior class. A. P. Hudgins has been
selected to fill this position.

heen reported for “freshness in general.”
George Hodgins has been selected as

Heretofore many Freshmen have
come to college, seen the hazing, and af-
|ter a few days, gone home again. Fewer
Freshmen have withdrawn thus far than
ever before, Those who may be doubt-
ful as to the good of.the Court of Con-

“Figures do not lie,” so the old saying |
goes. manager of the class basketball team.
Every man that played on the last year’s
Junior team will be back in harness and
rearing to go. ‘McLaurin, a member of
the Senior team last year, will aid them
on the floor.

The New Chambers is |

| ' The matter which occupied the great- |
|er part of the attention of the Execu-|

tee is asking for new instructions from}
ingly referred the matter to the meeting |

Of unusual interest was an order giv-

trol would do well to lay their own
opinions aside and judge from results.
Following is a list of the members of
the court. Seniors: Lee McLean, Nappy
Davis, Vic Brown, Gene Regen; Juniors:

Though this class is not as large as
the class of '22, it has planned to do big
things in its program this year. The
school is counting on them to put it all
across in fine style.

(no EXTRA CHARGE FOR NEAT GOLD POCKET-CLIP OR RING- END

Cr

Written with a
Parker by Princeton’s star
football kicker

Duofold ins pires
fluent Thinking

and lightens your college work—
unruly pens distract and discourage

1 BPs hamper your education — don’t en-

cumber your mind—by using an unruly -
fountain pen. Such pens are the reason the

classic Duofold was created.

Look at economy through the Future’s eye
—see that years after college days.are over
you'll beusing the handsome Duofold that you
buy today. For its balanced swing and super-
smooth point embody youth eternal.

This Chinese lacquer-red pen with smart
black tips is the countersign all the regular
4 fellows recognize. So don’t be induced to ac-
cept an inferior pen when Duofold will grade
up your taste as well as your work. While
you're at it, get the real thing.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN

Duofol
Same except for sise

ja Se. 6S Ducfeld ¢s
With ring for chatelaine

| WHITE DRUG CO.

| W. S. HENDERSON

\

=

