THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

SENIORS
CLASS

BASKETBALL
CHAMPS

SENIORS
CLASS

BASKETBALL
CHAMPS

Seniors Nose Out Juniors In Finale
Contest and Capture Class Bunting |

Juniors Lose Third Game of Season
by One Point Margin

In the last class basketball game of the
season the Senior team defeated the Junior
team by the score of 15 to 14. It was one of
the best games scen here in a long time on
account of fast team work and close
guarding of both teams. Each side was
supreme jn one half, but the Seniors had too
much of a start on the Juniors in the first
half for their opponents to catch up. There
was the largest crowd of the fall out and a
good deal of cheering was heard along the
sidelines as the two teams struggled for the
mastery. There comparatively few
fouls for this type of game where each
player was on edge and every one fighting
their hardest.

The game started off with a dash and
McLaurin dropped one through the ‘net for
the first counter. Paul Story then got over-
anxious and Brice dropped a free one
through the basket from the 17-foot line.
After two or three fouls had been committed
and play had’ gone rather languidly and Paul
Story got it back on the Juniors and brought

his score up to 3. He then proceeded to put

SPORTING
GOODS

Our Representative
on the Campus

its

were

The Commissary

Myers Hardware &
Sporting Goods Co.

18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

|

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES

Davidson Representative

J. P. HENDRIX
302 West

Samples now on
display

Z|
WE APPRECIATE
YOUR PATRONAGE

%

J. M. HENDRIX:
AND COMPANY

: GREENSBORO
ae CAROLINA

ee

two in succession through the loop and Ed)
Morrison followed it up with one from
about the middle of the court. Two more |
fouls by Story and a field goal by McBryde ,
brought the score to 11, where it remained |
for the rest of the half.

The second half was a repetition of the}
first, only the Juniors had the upper hand |
and the Seniors managed to score one more |
point in this half than the Juniors had been |
able to score in the first half, by which mar-
gin the Seniors finally won out. The most !
remarkable thing about this half was the
playing of Ed Brown, spectacular
work kept several of the Junior men from
scoring. The players of neither team seemed
to be able to hit their stride as they had ex-!
hibited for a time during the carly part of |
the season, |
The two bright spots in this game were |
the playing of Harry Price and Ed Brown. |
Both these men are picked for all-class |
births and they vindicated the choice of the |
pickers in choosing them.

This was the last game of the season and
with it there hung two matters: one was the
championship of the classes. If the Seniors
won then the season would stop right there,
but if the Juniors won, there would have to
be another game for the highest honors.
The score:

whose

Seniors (15) Position. Juniors (14)
Sonya (/) eres ceeueetesaes Morrison (3)
Mobariti= (4): 2 see ee es Brice (3)
Forwards
MoBryde (4) -2vz-ccelc.-.- McNair (3)
Center
IBS OWI 25222 oe ee eg Price (5)
Guftie cs 5osc Se sees Koenig
Guards
Substitute: Boushee for Story.

All-Class Team Selected
By Captains and Coaches

Elkins, a Unanimous choice for One
Forward Position

As the season is now on for every one in
these United States to be picking teams rep-
resentative of their section of the country,
we, the Davidsonian, will now endeavor to
pick a team from the four classes that par-
ticipated in the class basketball league that
has just come to a close.

For a better idea of a representative team,
the coaches and captains of the various teams
have been consulted. Their decisions have
been taken as votes and the different posi-
tions have been picked by these votes.

The season just past was not a runaway in
the slightest degree. There were only two
men who shown head and shoulders above
the rest, but not even these two were not
above some discussion by the pickers. These
two men both happen to be forwards and
captain of his respective team. Liston El-
kins, of the Seniors, and Ed Morrison, of
the Juniors, were these two men.

For the forward position there were four
men mentioned prominntly: Elkins and Bou-
she, of the Seniors; Morrison, of the Ju-
niors, and Huie, of the Sophs. Elkins and
Morrison are awarded the positions both on
account of their speed and their ability to
cover the floor, They also were the high
‘point men, Elkins getting 56 points for the
season and Morrison getting 48.

For center five men were mentioned: Huie,
Cooke, Fawcette, McNair, McBryde, of the
Sophs, Fresh, Juniors and Seniors, respec-
tively. Fawcette got the more votes and is
hence awarded that position on account of
his ability to cover the floor and drop the
oval through the basket. He was undoubt-
edly the individual star of the Fresh team.

For the position of guard there is a little
more competition. There were ‘six men
named, for guard, but the two that stand out
mostly for their work during the past season
were Price, of the Juniors, for running
guard, and Brown, Senior, at standing guard!
These two men were the best at guarding on
the floor, jand with-Morrison and Fawcette
to come down and help them, very few points
would be scored by their opponents.
“For utiiity-man there seems to be only one!
man favored by the pickers, and that man is

Six Meets Scheduled for Wildcat Mat

Heavy Season on Deck for Captain) may see it. The men will not be put on
Weems’ Grapplers—Two Vir- _ pledge until after the holidays.
ginia Trips on Schedule The Athletic Association, has two meets
—_—— contracted to be held here: February 9th,
Wrestling has begun. Prospects this year | Carolina, and February 23rd, Trinity. The
for a good team are excellent, on account of | Athletic Association has authorized four
the large number of men out. Captain | meets off the Hill, making possible and prob-
Weems is coach and says that a great deal of jable two Virginia trips. All that remains to
hard work must be done by each man before! be completed about these two’trips is the fix-
he will be in shape for a match. jing of the dates. The date for a meet with
The arrival of a new mat Saturday, 16| V- M. I., at Lexington, has already been set
feet square, is expected to relieve the crowd- | for the closing match of the season, March
ed condition, which has handicapped the men | Ist.
going out in the past. Since football season |
is over, quite a few of the football men are:
expected to come out. |

The probable schedule follows:

Feb. 9—Carolina, at Davidson.

Feb. 16—V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 18—U. of Va., at University, Va.
Feb. 23—Trinity, at Davidson.

Feb. 29—W. & L., at Lexington, Va.
March 1—V. M. L, at Lexington, Va.

Captain Weems has outlined a program, in|
which every man coming out will receive;
systematic training. He plans to hold an)
elimination contest some night before the
holidays. This contest will probably be held

after a picture show, so that the students |
p | Miss Margaret Sample returned to

— | Winston after spending the week-end
at least one vote for every position, and aj with her aunt, Mrs. H. B. Sample. Miss
good work for all. The team: | Sample is a student of Salem College.

OnWardsi esse sears Elkins, Morrison

(CUT Fawcette What ashame! They're out of my range,
Guards ose evokes ---- Brown, Price sighed the cook when she looked at the
WW tilityerse Ses ee ee ee Huie , burned biscuits.

GOT YOUR COPY YET?

Latest Magazines and Periodicals
DAVIDSON .RADE APPRECIATED
Cigars

Cigarettes Tobacco

CENTRAL and SELWYN
NEWSTANDS

Huie, captain of the Sophs, He was given

ES NTRAL HOTEL SELWYN HOTEL

. e >
| CLASS BASKETBALL STANDING Niches in the Wildcat
° Hall of Fame
Points Opp. Points
Field Foul Total Field Four Total W. L. Pet. SAMUEL ROBERT BRADY
Sthiotss.252520023 39 24142 AZ 9237 119) 5) 2 816 a
Nuers cc Goe gs Ao ey a 6S 500 Football D*
Stet) oc sen) Ne 17a 127, GSE lie eae 4 333 “... The good is often interred with their
Brash c22eu-cesaee 49 28 126 64 23 151 2 4 333 bones.”
Individual Points LANL “anyone Sul) ever knew 520)
Brady as a college man, who ever once pass-
Name Class Field Foul Total ed him and received a sunny smile, cr felt
BlkiiSaescsasscccssccescosaacche Senior 22 12 56 his sincere handclasp, will ever doubt his in-
Morrison —--- Junior 21 6 48 fluence is gone from the Davidson campus,
McNair ----- Junior 18 7 43 and the scenes he once loved. His death in
BOUSHCOmes= Souelacssusecesouous Senior 17 3 37 June of this year carried him away in the
Fawcette Fresh 14 9 37 full flower of young manhood, but though he
Lawson .-- Sophs 17 2 36 is gone his spirit still remains with these
HUG esate eel ec eoesacas Sophs 14 6 34 among whom he lived and loved.
Anderson ~-.-------------------- Fresh 12 3 27 Sam Brady was one of Davidson's great
Cooke ~------------------------- Sophs 10 5 25 football players, not winning his weil-merited
McBryde ~---------------------- Senior 10 5 25 praise by flashy and grandstand playing, but
Lindley ---- -- Junior 9 3 21 by hard and conscientious digging that kept
Grooever ~.--------------------- Fresh 6 5 17 him fighting until ,the last blast of the
Winn Fresh 7 1 15 whistle. If ever the morale of the team was
Brice -- Junior 6 2 M4 at a low ebb, his never-failing ood humor
Price ~------- Junior 6 2 14 and optimistic spirit always kept the fighting
Kiser --.----- Fresh 6 2 14 instinct going strong. No one knows just
Story -------~------------------ Senior 5 3 13 |} }how much a good morale is to 1 team, and
| McLaurin ---------------------- Senior 6 0 12 |] Jespecially to the teams that Davidson puts
| Beall ---------- Fresh 3 4 10 | | out, almost always outweighed by their op-
| Coltrane Soph 3 1 7 | ponents, and often playing against players of
Oden -----.--...-------_--------- Soph 3 0 6 more experience.
aa apres Genet Me 4 : (Continued on page 4)
Moora 2222 eG rues Soph 1 1 3 Posssesessssssesssssssossvessnnossnaeannees
| Pathick sets See eee ee Junior 1 1 3 | i
ee BEOWitessnecenens esoe cast aS Senior 0 2 Bl
fie eT : |]! Central Cafeteria

‘On the Square”’

Best Place to Eat

Try irrttirrtitiritiririiiIrrr trie

Corner Trade and Tryon ;
Central Hotel Building |
H

(III III Ir}

IN FAVOR
THIS FALL

Short,threebutton,
half-belted ulsters
are to be greatly
favored this fall.
You’ll see many
of them; but none
like the Society
Brand Hampton.

The difference is in
the cut. There’s an air
about this overcoat that
you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut;
every detail—the roll of
the lapel, the spacing of
the buttons, the placing
of the pockets-isexactly
right.

Wehaveawonderful
assortmentof fabrics for
your selection. Hea-
ther mixtures, colorful
overplaids—whatever
you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN
-Local Agents

