DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Bahidson Obserher

Today—1 Page

‘SOPHS HOLD BANQUET
IN CHARLOTTE MONDAY

The Sophomores will stage their class ban-
quet in Charlotte of next Monday night,
April 16. The committee in charge has ar-
ranged a very attractive program and the
members of the class are looking forward
to a most enjoyable evening.

As planned, the class will go to Charlotte
en masse on the 4:05 train and will give
the Queens the once-over. At 7:00 o'clock
that ‘night everyone will assemble at the
Chamber: of C ce for the grand old
pastime of eating. ul

The banquet will begin promptly, in order
that all the program can be carried out be-
fore time for the second show at Keith's.
Music will be furnished by the class quar-
tet, string instruments, and possibly an or-
chestra. Toasts will be proposed by mem-
bers of the class. The guests from the
faculty, Doctor Porter and Captain Ellis,
will be called on for speeches. These two
faculty members, the president of the stu-
dent body, and the presidents of the other
three classes, will all be guests of the Soph-
omores.

It is planned to run off the election of
class officers for the coming year at this
time.

After these events, the crowd will disband
to reassemble at Keith’s for the 9:00 o’clock
show, at which it is planned to have every-
one sit together. Rumor has it that certain

talented members of the class will stage a
special act during the performance.

After Keith’s, a tired but happy bunch
will wend their way back to college in auto-
Mobiles.

| OPPORTUNITY!

Splendid opening in one of
the most pleasant and beau-
tiful sections of the country.
Farm for sale adjoining
county, N. C.E TAOIN-A
Pinehurst. property, Moore
i County, N. C.! 171% acres,
10 acres peach trees, bal-
ance suitable for berries and
truck. Good buildings.
Market unlimited. .Price

$6'500.00

Inquire of

A. S. NEWCOMB & CO.

PINEHURST, N. C.

Henderson Auto
Electric Co.

BATTERY REPAIRING
and

ACCESSORIES

Davidson, N. C.

TOWN NEWS

Little Sonny Ellis, son of Capt. and Mrs.
Ellis, has been quite sick for several days.

Friends of Mrs. James Shumaker will be
glad to learn that she is back home again,
after undergoing an operation at the Mercy-
General Hospital in Charlotte.

Mr. G. B. Sorrells paid a business visit to
New York City last week.

Mrs. W. B. Romefelt of Asheville, was
a visitor last week, at the home of her par-
ents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

°

An old resident of Davidson, Mrs. W. B.
Mayhew, died in Pinesville, and was buried
last week in the Davidson cemetery.

Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Robinson of Cas-
tonia gave an elaborate buffet luncheon last
Monday at the Davidson-Carolina game.
The guests invited from Davidson were Dr.
and Mrs. W. J. Martin, Mr. and Mrs, F. L.
Jackson, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglass, Dr.
and Mrs. J. M. McConnell and Prof. and
Mrs. A. Currie.

The Civic League conducted a successful
rummage sail in one of the vacant stores
last Saturday.

Miss Helen Gibbs has returned from a
prolonged visit in South Carolina.

Misses Margaret Adams and Johnsie

Shelton have been quite ill recently.
Mrs. J.

F. Jamison of Charlotte spent

:|the week end with Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Lo-

thery.

Friends of Mr. and Mrs. A, C. White
will be sorry to hear that he is still quite
ill.

Miss Jean Martin spent last week in Win-
ston-Salem, as the guest of Miss Elizabeth
Norflect.

Davidson is very much interested in the
announcement of the engagement of Stew-
art Gilchrist, 17 of Charlotte and Miss Ellen
Victor of Charlotte. Mir, Gilchrist is a
loyal alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Victor
has been a popular visitor here.

At the April meeting of the Woman's
Auxiliary of the Presbyterian chureli last
week,, Dr. C. M. Richards installed the new
officers in a very beautiful and impressive
service. Mrs. W. A. Jetton was elected
delegate to the Presbyterial meting in
Statesville, and the work for the coming
yéar was mapped out.

Mrs. Jopp, and grandson “Bobbie” are
guests of Prof. and Mrs. I. M. Currie.

The Thelemite Book Club met Friday
evening at the home of Prof. and Mrs. E. J.
Erwin. The very pleasing program includ-
ed a talk on astronomy by Prof. W. W.
Wood, and music W4s furnished by a string
quartette from the College—Messers Elkins,
Earnest, Seago and Crane.

Mrs. L. M. Currie gave a large and de-
lightful tea Friday evening in honor of her
mother, Mrs. Jopp, of Niagara Falls, N. Y.

Miss Lizzie Young spent last week in
FConcord at the home of her uncle, Mr. J.
P. Allison. Mr. Allison is a member of
the college Executive Committee, and his
many friend regret that he has not been
very well during the past winter.

Among the visitors here the past week
end was Mac Richards, lately appointed
Rhodes scholar, now studying at Prince-

ton University. He was invited to make

W. B. Barnette & Co.
All kinds of Fancy and Heavy Groceries

Davidson, N. C.

a school address at Semora, Person county,
this heing the occasion of his visit to his
home. Chef McAlpine, '22, is principal at
Semora.

The Epworth Leaguers who attended the
Statesville District Institute in Mooresville
last week, were Misses Grace Goodrum, Sue
Moch, Madaline Cathey, and Mr. William
Cathey.

Rev. and Mrs. Frank Armstrong, and lit-
tle son, of Concord spent Monday with Mr.
and Mrs. M. H. Goodrum.

Mrs. A. L. Hobbs visited her mother,
Mrs. Curley, in Charlotte last week.

Mr. Hughey McConnell spent the week
end with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse
McConnell.

The officers and governors of the Men’s
Club held their regular meeting last Monday.
Next week a feed is planned, to be held at
the home of Mrs. Brady. The hotel ques-
tion will again be brought up.

The Woman's Auxiliary met at the church
last Thursday afternoon with Mr. R. H.
Henderson in charge of the program. In
addition to the study of Africa the new offi-
cers for the ensuing term were installed by
Doctor Richards. -The subject for the May

meeting will be a Mexican Fiesta.
D.

THE “QUEENS” INVADE
JAYBIRDSVILLE AGAIN

The Queen’s Dramatic Club will present
a three act comedy, The Romancers, at Dav-
idson on ‘Tuesday evening, April 17, for the
benefit of the Annual. The play is a light
comedy in which the love element is pre-
dominant, and love scenes combined with
several duels and sword play make the play
full of life and action. This marks the
second appearance of the Queen’s club on
the hill this season, the first being the oper-
etta Martha.

The cast of characters is as follows:

Personet, a lover.......... Cornelia Wearn
Stratforel, a bravado...... Buelah Holmes
Sergamin, father of Personet ........

Ry RES T LR Margaret Smart
Pasquinot, father of Sylvette..........

SiR UOT Elmina Howard
Blaise, a gardener.......... Perry Lee Bell
Sylvette, daughter of Pasquinot.......

Uy eH OROn sO GON Meme Hampton
Musicians....Margaret Raymond, Kathleen
MeArtor,
Swordsmen... Lucile Ewing, Perry Lee Bell,

Lois Rogers, Irene Gibson.

Katherine Stowe, Bessie Brake, Irene
Gibson.
GUa8tH aac ts Mildred Wenderson, Eloise

Brady, Agnes Efird.
Entertainers.. Misses McClure, Lois Rogers

Act |. The Wall.
Acr Il, Removal of the Wall.
Acr If. ‘The Wall again.

SSS UO RT Sere’ se

Wildcat Warriors Open
Diamond Season.and Conquer
South Carclina on Cinders

(Continued from Page 1)
walked and a bad throw to first advanced
both men. Curtis, hurling for State, was
equal to the occasion, and shut out two men
without allowing a score. ‘The Red and
Black nine had several other men on bases—
eight, all told—the oportunity of scoring did
not present itself again.

Nealy Hunter pitched a great game for
the Wildcats. While allowing eight hits, he
kept them scattered so that State did not
threaten to score except in the sixth and
eighth innings. Nealy got one of the three
hits marked up to Davidson's credit. Behind
the bat, Brice played a near perfect game,
completing a battery any team might be proud
of.

Capt. Pat Crawford strutted his usual
good form at the first sack, fielding every-
thing in his vicinity and never missing

al

Gifficult flies. Vatu. is credited wi-'1 one
of our three hits.

The fact that Davidson registered only one
|error proves that Hunter had perfect sup-
| port, without which his hurling such a mean
| pill would have been in vain.
| For the visitors Curtis pitched a splendid
| game, allowing only three hits. The score
| keeper marked down eleven strike-outs to
| the credit of the tall lad from N. C, State:
|The entire State club worked in machine-
| like unison, though a few errors crept in
|to mar their otherwise perfect work.
| THE GAME BY PLAYS

FIRST INNING—Starting off with an ag-
| gressive attack the visitors put two men on
| base in-a few minutes of play. Ruth, first
man up, walloped a single to left field.
Gladstone was safe on first when Hunter
made a wide throw to Crawford. David-
son's infield tightened up, however. John-
son was thrown out at first base, and a double
play, Olford to Crawford, shut out State’s
opportunity Py

Richards kuccked a long fly tc % ft field.
S. Olford struck out. Pat Crawford took
his base on balls, stole second and advanced
to third on a wild throw from Faulkner,
State’s catcher. F. Alford dro-e one to Short
| who handled it nicely. —

SECOND INNING--Redfearn earned a hit
through short stop and went to second on
a sacrifice by Faulkner. Lassiter’s fly was
tucked away by Wells in left field, and Rich-
ards sewed up a fly from Stout.

Brice bunted to Curtis and was thrown
out at first. Covington and Wells struck
out.

THIRD INNING—Curtis fanned. Ruth's
attempt was handled-by Richards to Craw-
ford and Gladstone struck out. The game
seemed to be resolving itself into a_pitch-
ers’ duel.

Vance struck out. Hunter drove a single
inside short, and Richards walked. Hunter
went to third and Richards to second, when
a peg to first went wild. Crawford struck

out.
FOURTH INNING—Three up, three
down, Again Johnson and Correll hit to

the infield and Redfearn drove a line drive
into Richards’ glove.

Frank Olford poped one out to Redfearn
at short. Brice was thrown out by Curtis.
Covington was struck by a pitched ball and
given his base, advanced to second when
Wells made first on Gladstone’s error, but
was thrown out attempting to reach third
sack.

FIFTH INNING—Faulkner hit a single
to right field, went to second on Lassiter’s
sacrifice, and to third as Stout was thrown
out at first. Curtis fanned.

Vance made a pretty hit to center field,
but died on first when Hunter, Richards and
Olford struck out.

SINTHE INNING— Ruth bunted, and was
safe on bad throw from Brice. Gladstone
was shut out. Johnson doubled to left field,
scoring Ruth, Correll slammed the pill out
into left field again, but was caught at sec-
ond, Redfearn made «first on fielder’s
choice. A peg from Richards to Crawford
took care of Faulkner at the initial sack.

Crawford and F. Olford popped up to the
infield and outfield respectively. Brice
walked and Covington failed to connect
| with the horsehide sphere.

SEVENTH INNING—Hunter set three
down in quick succession—Lassiter, Stout and
Curtis.

Wells made first on error by State's first
baseman. Vance fanned. Hunter popped
up to catcher. Richards walloped a_sin-
gle through short, but died on second when
S. Olford was caught at first.

EIGHTH INNING—State threatened
}again. Hits by Ruth and Gladstone followed

| by Johnson's sacrificé put N. C. in a scor-
Jing position. Hunter fielded Correll’s hit
| however, and threw Ruth out as he slid on-
{to the rubber. Wells snagged Redfearn’s
| long fly and the danger was past.

| Crawford, F. Alford and Brice were out
| by perfect infield work.

* NINTH INNING—Faulkner drove one to

Richards, who handled it nicely. Lassiter
registered a single to left field and Stout
walked, a double play by Olford, Richards
and Crawford, shut out State’s last oppor-
tunity.

Covington popped one up near first base.
Wells was safe on a wild throw from Red-
fearn. Boushee substituted for Hunter and
struck out. Wells was caught off first.

STATE ABRHSBSH POAE
Ruth, If. ........... 41200200
Gladstone, 2nd b...3 0 101 1 3 0
Johnson, rf.........8 0:1 01 1 0 0
Correll} cf: ......... 30110000
Redfearn, ss. ....... 40100111
Faulkner, c....... 3..—_0—1_0-1-12-1__1
Lassiter 1b. ........3 01019 0 2
WOUt Oat est reste 30000100
(ols), Govocuouocc 4000002 0

TOTALS .....30 1 8 1427 7 4

Two base hits. .Johnson; Left on bases—
8; Base on balls—3; Strike outs—by Curtis
11; by Hunter, 4. Time— 1 hr. 40 min.

1D), (C), ABRH SBSH POAE
Richards, 2b........3 0 1 103 5 0
Olford, S. ss........ 40000240
Crawford 1b........3 0 0 1 014 0 0
Olford, F. cf....... 40000000
Brides Cries 608 30000601
Covington, 2b......3 0000020
Wellsielt- its cscs 40000200
Vance ths ves. oes 30100000
Boushee ........66 10100040
Eiuniterenen nessa 30100040
TOTALS .31 0 3 2 02715 O
Score by Innings...123456789
Statesinei at cseeiian 00000 J 00 0—)
EAU. GooacovaGoud 0000000000
Carolina Game........ csecteceeeesee 500

A kindly curtain should be drawn over the
baseball game between Carolina and David-
son in Gastonia on Easter Monday. One
bad inning, in which the Wildcats looked
like a bunch of high school players, turned
what would have been a good game into
a comedy of errors. The final count was
12 to 5 with the Chapel Hill team on the
heavy end.

The second inning was the one which did
the dirty work. Five hits, two errors, two
wild pitches and a hit batsman resulted in
eight ‘runs being chased over the rubber.
The scorer called for an adding machine
to keep track of the tallys that trickled
across the home platter. Boushee went in
and finally retired the Tar Heels.

With the exception of that one disastrous
inning the game would have been a corker,
for during the rest of the contest the teams
battled on even terms. “More experienced”
tells the tale of Carolina’s superiority. -Prac-
tically every man on their team was a vet-
eran while’ Crawford was the only man on
the Davidson team who was not playing
his first college game in his position.

(Continued Next, Week)

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home
Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

peg. Coach Currie evidently used good
judgment in bringing Dick Richards in
from center field to second, for Dick play-
ed some real baseball around that corner
ef the dimond, Besides %.::. the club
in number of assists and getting several put-
outs, Richards connected up with one of
Curtis’ elusive curves for a hit. Ted Coving-
tom did spectacular work around third hase
and at short ston S. Olford scoxpet un
every.! ing that came his way.

In the outfield; Wells, F. Olford and Vance
covered? a lot of ground and soparet some

o

a

4

Electrik Maid BREAD

PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”

Electrik Maid Bake Shop

MOORESVILLE, 'N. C.

|

