4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association for the benefit of those members of the stu-

| thet body, or faculty, who desire to express

Open Forum

during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
| Davidsonian staff that the column will be con-
| ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
r freely
discussions on

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

that the students will express themselves
and enter into open-hearted i
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. All articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00
Monday.)

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

p. m,.

Rhea Fellows, it is all over but the SHOUTING.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 | Well we can't do much of that. But are we
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. down hearted? No! Our team has fought

LISTON D. ELKINS...

Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L, PRICE-- :

--Business Manager

|games and how we played them will show
us that. Football season is over. All we
can do now is talk over the past and look

Editorial Staff

C. M. S. McILWAINE...---- Managing Editor ‘forward to the future. We can't kick. Our

, A, LAKE._.-.-Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD.. -Associate Editor | teams have be ore irst whistle
ii. B. PRICE_...-Assistant Managing Editor A, C. WILDMAN..- -Associate Editor CuI have been there from the first whistle
W. F. GALLOWAY......------. Athletic Editor W. M. COX....--— Associate Pate to the last. Our coaches have trained a true
“LSE > er Edi + + ’

J. M. SELSER..---.-.- Peanut Parcher Editor O. J. ALLESON.-.--- -Alumay Ber pack of fighting Wildcats, but our pep hasn't
Bide ata a been what it should have been. Sit down

P. J. STORY ves-oaz-s---+Subscription K, S$, McALPIN..- Service Manager and think this over. Chew and digest it.
Tea trae Cisculasiok seta eer yh ve (oh MAD - Department Get in there and fight them, fellows; every
V. H. LYNCH ee ery ta W. R. HOUG ack --Advertising man behind the teams which represent not
J, M. GARRISON--. ----sra-snem-nenc> Collab — only our student body but that spirit that is

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT. a heritage from the past.
J. A. THOM PSON, Assistant Manager

CLUB

WATT McCAIN, Manager

REPORTERS’

What about basketball, wrestling, track,
tennis, baseball? All together fellows. Are
we downhearted? No!

i —Spirit.

HURD, A. M., Pres PITTS,
D RE

WHARTC . B., Vice-Pres. A
FATTON. J. H., Sec'y-Treas. ROGER 1G a :
PLEBY, ; SHAW, H. L.
BEALL, McP. S Srory, P. J. WHAT’S WRONG WITH ’27?
BOWIE,. A. WHITE, H, M. : ‘
GIBBS, L. B. WILLIAMS, J. M. On last Sunday night there were several

Freshmen who were on the train going from
Statesville, Evidently these men were feel-
ing friends, and wished to
show their spirit to the other passengers en

fine, all being

: the train, but it was not well received on the

mace part these other passengers. The con-

The Davidsonian this week is edited throughout, with the exception Of ductor continually asked them to be more

the editorial column, by the Managing Editor. That makes us think of the quiet, telling them that he had complaints
old maxim whose sense is that there is no position so important that it can) from passengers but they kept up their jolly-
not be filled well at all times. ity,

not listening to anything he said; in fact,
asking him what he had to do with what they
When they got off at Daviad-
son the passengers applauded because they

: D as

The Davidsonian Staff announces the appointment of J. M. Selser, of
Mountrie, Ga., as Editor of the Peanut Parcher. Selser fills the vacancy
caused by the resignation of W. M. Heston, who was foreed to retire from
the staff because of a recent illness.

were doing.

were about to get rid of them.
Does that
. ee 1p se Is the public

We observe that college newspapers are printed on sheets of varied to form a bad opinion of the student body
tints. We have seen exchanges this year in green, organge, blue, black, and the college because of a few men not
pink, red, purple, brown amd other colors, To date there has been no condueting themselves as they should whei
yellow sheet on our exchange table, however. College journalism has no they are before the publics Let's
yellow in it. the good name of our college and of our-

fj ss D is neces selves by playing the part of a gentleman an

Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C., has entered the field of college every place, These men most surely did net
journalism, The Johnstonian is the name of the new weekly publication realize just the position in which they were,
recently inaugurated by the Winthrop student body. It is named?in honor but we can not ever tell what someone will
of the President and founder of the institution, — ~ say about what we do, Remember this, fel-

pa pee ; lows; do your part toward keeping up the

The Davidsonian is not the only college weekly to publish special true Davidson spirit, and lets keep it the
Thanksgiving and Football editions. It seems that the special edition best anywhere in the South or the country
fever is contagious. The epidemic is sweeping the country, carrying @ywhere.
papers all over the nation in its wake. : :
Sine p peed

: THE ATHLETIC COACH

HUE and a cry has been lifted in condemnation of the athletic coach-

ing system throughout the United States. The commereialization

of college sports is suggested as the ultimate result of coached
teams, and a trembling finger of warning points to the death of college
spirit. “Give up your paid coaches, or give up athletics,” is the homiletic
advice of the self-appointed sports reformers,

Possibly these prophetic personages have played the game them-
selves; possibly they have seen service in a football uniform or a gym
shirt—but very probably they have never been in an athlete’s shoes, and
they know nothing of thé athlete’s position. It’s a “heads-I-win tails-vou-
lose” bet that these reformers of the sporting world have never quickened
their pace above the rapid motion of a chess game, and that they would
judge a gridiron to be a pressing club implement. ‘

What branch of reasoning could warrant the expulsion of coaching
staffs! Would it be reasonable to take the ieachers from the class rooms
of our colleges and universities. The game of studies is a contest, one
student matching wits with another fora place of supremacy in life, The des that Wildcat stock is strong. Abundant
game of football is a contest, one athlete matching strength and skill with Merial, and superior coaches, combined with
another for a place of supremacy in the sporting world. The student rep- the Wildeat fighting spirit is to he dreaded
resents himself, and his alma mater; the athlete is working for himself, bY 4! epponents,
and his college. The athlete—the student; each one works toward a shin- © Much speculation and interest has been
ing goal. “The coach—the professor; each one lends himself to guide his created by the announcement of the tentative
understudies to succéss. Tutoring is permissible in the one! It is per- schedule which includes a number of new

what does this mean?
| show the true Davidson spirit ?

Fellow Ss,

protect

An Observer.

PROSPECTS FOR GOOD QUINT
ARE BRIGHT

(Continued from page 1)

Head basketball. Last
Was a typical one with him. After
winning the championship of the Old) Do
minion, the fighting Teehnicians battled their
way to the third round in the Southern Con
ference Tournament, in Atlanta, numbering
among their the Vanderbilt
quintet. Assistant Coach Rawson, too, had
an enviable record; while at Georgia, he won

Was also Coach in

year

victims strong

undisputed possession of the position of win-
ning guard on the All-Southern quintet.

Even the most conservative fan acknowl-

missible in the two! but well known rivals. The schedule fol-
“But. it is a battle between coaches,” urges the would-be reformer, lows:
oT i. +4 . . ” ve .
The strength of our college teams cannot be determined by inter-col- January 14—Charlotte “Y"—Charlotte.

”

legiate matches. The best coach wins. January
And so he does! In the same sense that-the best college professor Statesville.

turns out the best students, the best coach turns out the best teams. [Tt January 19—Carolina—Charlotte,

is the natural thing to expect. Were it not for this fact, there would be no — February 3—Guilford—Davidson,

need for coaches; the Greek or Latin or Euglish teacher might serve as February 3—Trinity—Charlotte

athletic director. February 6—University of Florida—Da-
But it is not to be supposed that the success of a team lies wholly in vidson.

the hands of the coach. The athletes who play the game and who face the February 8—Hampden-Sidney—Davidson.

brunt of the opposing attach, when the fire is hot and when their leader is, February 9—Charlotte “Y"—Davidson.

one of their own-iumber, are the men upon whom the burden rests. It is February 1I—N. C. State—Davidson,

true that they have been tutored by a guiding hand, but is that to be scored | February 13—University of S. C.—David-

against the tutor! His work is indispensable, but we must give some’ son.

credit to the inherent ability and the possibilities of development of each | February 14—Wake Forest—Davidson.

player. February 16—Statesville Athletic Club—
It may be trug that college athletics are facing commercialization, but | Davidson. :

‘the reason must be assigned to something other than the charhinaisys>4 February 19—WakeF orest—Wake Forest.
tem. Perhaps it is the remuneration of athlétes, perhaps it is the meddling | February 20—N. C. State—Raleigh.
hand-of the outsider who would make a fortune out of the college teams, | February 21—Guilford—Guilford.
perhaps it is something else ; the trouble cannot be laid at the feet of the} February 27—Washington and
coaches. — i : | Charlotte. :

16—Statesville Athletic Club

Lee—

(This department is conducted by the editor, |

their opinions on any matter which might arise |

a good fight this season, a survey of the)

Fooball is the great college game of
America. Therefore, it is a genleman’s
game. Only gentlemen are supposed to play
it. As a gentleman’s game, it should be held
apart from those sports which have fallen

into disrepute because of their exploitation |

by professional players and gamblers, and
reserved for, the clean competition of gentle-
ment.—King College News.

“College teachers need to acquiré interest

in students rather than in subjects and _inter-
est in the problems of the community,” de-
clared Chancellor Samuel P. Capen, of the
University of Buffalo, at the annual convo-
cation of the University of the State of New
York.—Rich.-Col.
Arrangements have been made by Dr.
Jacobs for the Oglethorpe students to have
music during the lunch hour on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday and on other days
soup will be served to equalize the loss of the
Petrel’s band of musicians.—Petrel.

Should success in the end crown the per-
sistence of the enterprisers, the Honor Can-
teen may become an established institution
It may be the beginning of a tradition
of honor that will exalt our University to a
position it could not otherwise attain. It
may fail, and have to be abandoned on ac-
count of the dishonesty of the hundredth
man—Red and Black.

here.

College buildings are in many ways public
Visitors are continually passing
in and out of them, and what they see there
They
judge the students and incidentally the col-
lege, by the manner in which the buildings
kept.— Maroon and Gold.

buildings.

makes a deep impression on them,

The University of California has ‘suffered
a great loss from the recent Berkeley fire.
The homes of cighteen fraternities, sorori-
ties and clubs were cither totally or partially
destroyed. exchange.

The Furman Service Flag, along with the
names of the alumni who served in the war,
was displayed in the Library*on Armistice
Day.

stars,

This flag contains one hundred ninety
However, this is not the total number
of alumni who were in service. Then, too,
a number of these stars are gold, denoting

those who made the supreme sacrifice. Fur-
man may justly be proud of her’ service
flag.—The Hornet.

A college years may be compared to a
foot-ball game; it is divided into four quar-
ters, and the game is never won or lost in
the first quarter—so don't be discouraged if
your grades are not satisfactory at the end
half-semester, Accept failure
warning——as an incentive to harder work—
rather than let it put a damper on your en-
thusiasm. Your first failure dogs not signify
your inability to achieve real success in the
end.

this as a

Orange and Blue.

A little moonlight now and then
Marries of f the best of men.
Harvard Lampoon,

auy person who has represented other — col-
leges or universities in any sport cannot rep-
This rul-
ing is expected to greatly influence Cornell's
future athletics. — Exchange.

resent Cornell in that same sport.

A document unearthed by work-men at
the home of John Hunt, in Plain City, Ohio,
included an entry as to the college expenses
of Dr. Hunt when he was attending Brown
college in 1839, The items are: Tuition,
$12; room rent $3. The total expenses for
three months were only $27.21.—Greenville
News.

CIVIC CLUB LIBRARY

Through a book shower. given last week,
and gilts friends New York, 97
books have been added and a new impetus
has been given to the circulation of books
among the young people of the village.

At the Tuesday meeting Mrs. W. R. Grey
made a delightful talk on her experiences in
Europe during two months of last summer,
Mrs. Grey had a number of pictures illus-
trating and adding interest to all she had to
say. A large number of members and vis-
itors were present.

The following officers were elected for
1924:

President—Mrs. L. Brady.

* Vice-President—Mrs. Olin White.

Secretary—Mrs. Earl Lathery.

Treasurer—Mrs. J. R. Withers.

from in

Lost and Found

Lost—A_ small gold Waltham watch.
R. P. R. engraved on back. Please return, if
found, to W. Speight Adams.

Strayed—One hand-saw from 13 N. Bar-
racks. Please return and oblige. Claude
McIntosh.

Lost—Parker fountain pen. Left in R. O.
T. C. blouse pocket when traded in armory.

Please return to J. Clyde Barrington, 4S. B.

Lost—An annual, the Charlestonian. Please
return to Kuykendall, 114 West.

Found—Sunday afternoon, on’ Athletic
Field, a red, slip-over sweater. Owner can

get same at 15 N. B. C. L. Bragaw.

LIBRARY NEWS

During the past week there have been
added to the Library several new books
that are very valuable for reference work
and recreation. “The People of Pales-
tine,” by Elihu Grant, is a vivid and valu-
able description of the Bible lands to-
day.

“Men Who Are Making America,” by
B. C. Forbes, is a group of: scientific
studies which point out the real reasons
back of every success. The author has
led some of the most successful men in
the country into making very interesting
confessions.

Ernest Gruening has recently edited a
group of analyses or stories of the sep-
arate commonwealths the compose our
nation, The name of the book is “These
United States.”

“And Old Castle and Other Essays.”
by Prof. Caleb T. Winchester, is a truly
representative memorial volume of es-
says of Englishmen of notable memory
of the Elizabethan period.

A group of short stories by A. S..M.
Hutchinson, ineluding “The Eighth
Wonder,” the latest addition.” The
author is popularly known as a novelist,
and some of his best work is to be found
in this book. These stories are widely
varied in theme, but all contain the
Hutchinson characteristics of humor and
vivid, intense drama,

1s

Among some of the other new books
placed in the Library are: “Woodrow
Wilson's for the of Na-
tions,” in which Woodrow Wilson states
arguments for the League of Na-
tions; “New Lanterns In Old China,” a
collection of interesting stories of Chi-
nese life, by Theodora M. Inglis; “Son-
nets and Other Poems,” by Henry Aylett
Sampson; “Secing the Middle West,” by
John T. Faris; “Young India,” by Ma-
hatma Gandhi; and “The Older Univer-
sities of England.” an interesting  his-
torical account of the famous old univer-
sities of England, by Albert Mansbridge,
an English scholar and lecturer of some

Case League

his

note.

PASTORS WILL SPEAK AT
MINISTERIAL MEETINGS

The Ministerial Band has launched out
on a new career as to life and usefulness.
In accordance with plans made recently,
a minister from one of the neighboring
churches will the Band every
Sunday until Christmas. For the spring
work plans have not yet been perfected.

Rev. R. A. White, D.D., pastor of the
Mooresville, spoke on

address

First Church, at
Sunday, taking his subject from the first
chapter of Philippians: “For me to live
is Christ.” In delivering his theme Dr.
White made it his object to prove what
is already realized and acknowledged by
men preparing: for the ministry, that
unless Jesus Christ fill the main place
in one’s heart. and be the actuating mo-
tive of all his works, there is no real
life—only a form of existence.

“Though that is true of all men,” said
Dr. White. “especially does it apply to
ministerial candidates. They, planning
to devote their lives to the service of
man, require a stronger impulse toward
faithfulness and grace, than their lay
brothers, for it is true that a preacher
can lead only as far as he is able to go.”

In closing Dr. White stressed the need
of all men, namely, a great model or pat-
ern after which they may make their
lives.

Three victories and seven defeats, but
that doesn’t spell a fighting team—which
is what the Wildcats were from begin-
ning to end.

Be fair! Don’t judge Billy Sunday un-
| til you have heard him yourself. No re-
port, verbal or printed, can do ‘him
| perfect justice.
