4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22,

1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
2 , “The Livest Wire on the Hill’ iat
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson ro Mail Matter of the Second Class,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

“You Can’t Beat Brains”

Is that true, or can brains be beaten? We
don’t know what those juniors and seniors
who :are studying double personality and
other branches of ‘brainology would say
about it. We have our own idea about it,
however, and that idea is that the slogan is
correct and that you cannot beat brains,

For brains to conquer, however, they must
fateh be exercised and exercised forcefully and
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 persistently and courageously. Fach brain
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. must take its own exercise and not depend
= on the activity of other brains for ‘ts health

... Editor-in-Chiet

tr D. RAINS itst Managing Editor AIKEN + and usefulness,
We a a Mesa trey citiy: Editor Te Gon . Now, if you think this article is written
er oe EE pArnletic ditor H, Mm MORRIS (4. vecceedoos Sic Haitor to urge the men on the campus to study
bt bays CO stuchange Editor harder this term, you miss your guess. Its
oa -——-———_—_—_—_— Oo Sa cnnnten here ae —— object is, however, to urge them to use their
W.-Z:-BRADEORDrereerrecereerers Watagee = We GALLOWAY... Assistant Manager brains in a matter of vital importance to our
Assistants student life.

SMITIT. ¢. r iF BRT ON TE Se MAN ene ips, V.D. The matter is the way in which votes are
pat AURAL eiaicy tear cast for student officers. [lection time will
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT soon be here and every student-should—be-
Lares COP EERS and W'S. TOURED isi ici loing some individual and courageous think-

R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. E, WEEKS and W. G, GUILLE..........065 Advertising Solicitors doing some indivic urag
JAMES McCUTCHEN..... 44.5 Office Assistant, BY. ‘WOScil. PHT OTR Advertising Copy ing and be preparing for some intelligent and
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT courageous voting. Davidson student activ-
WATT McCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mgr. ities have been fortunate in the majority of
cases in the men elected to office here. There
REP Oo RTER S * CLUB have, however, been some shocking and dis-
an tressing imislits. All too often .we have
BRON RH Vice Pres, Met AIRE M. patton H. elected round pegs for square holes, some of
RRO RACY nee Treas, MAUZEL Nee WALTHALL yaa the round pegs being so small in diameter
CALHOUN, M, P. MOORE, W. H. WILDMAN, A. C. that they did not even touch the edges of
BARNEWAY, W. F A KOY WEL. WILLEAMS, 3. oM the square, not to mention the corners, No
LAKE, J. A. PRICE, H. B. particular names need to be called to make

one realize that this practice is still being fol-
lowed. i

The presidency of the Davidson student
body furnishes the greatest opportunity in
college circles in America and the same can
be said relatively of the other places of
leadership in student body life here. ‘lhe
only man who has a right to allow himself
to be voted on for one of these offices is one
capable to fill it. ‘That capability should in-
clude among its prime requisites, high ideals,
training that fits him for the place, and the
possession of a backbone. No man who is
not capable for the particular office for which
jhe is offered should be supported, no matter
how many letters, stars, “gold wheels” or
other shiny decoration he has associated with
his name, person, or apparel.

Unless we insist on such men for our
places of leadership the boasted democracy
‘of the Davidson campus will never be any-
thing but an empty boast.

Think it over, men, and then vote like you
think, not like someone else thinks. Brains
cannot be beaten; let’s use them!

Another call for candidates has been issued and a large group of pitchers
and catchers have answered it. I’rom these men must be selected suitable ones
to represent Davidson credibly on the diamond, and the better their ability,
the greater our chances of success in baseball. ‘The job of developing these
men is one that will tax the patience and skill of any coach. However, with
Jack Currie, our captain of ’20, at the helm, and with assistance, as we all
hope, from Coach Hengevelt, there should finally emerge some good pitchers
and catchers for this season. We are all backing you, Buck!

D:

A thing that we all need in keeping our rooms in the best order, and also
in keeping the campus looking neat at all times, is a waste-basket. Here we
can throw the paper and trash that otherwise litters our room or the campus
below our windows. Since the college isn’t furnishing these any more, it
certainly looks like a good proposition for some one else to take over. Cheap
waste-baskets should be very easily disposed of.

D

“Every day and in every way, the square in front of the Infirmary is
growing worse and worse.” We all know how bad this piece of ground has
looked lately, especially since the road construction work caused it to be so
torn up and filled with rubbish. The statement quoted above reminds us very
forcefully of the fact, and because it is college property and adjoining the

: HELMHOLTZ.
campus, should make everyone want to see steps taken to clean this plot up. D.
While we are working so hard to improve the looks of the campus proper, we,
also, want that part of it presentable. :
aie NUT SUNDAES .
Credit is certainly due Professor Erwin and the minstrel cast for the Misses Dot and Dash Dorough, Dot

successful way in which they put before the public the recent accomplish-
ments at Davidson along this line. From all reports, they played before appre-
ciative and well-filled houses at almost every town, and the final performance
was broadcast over the country by radio from Charlotte. Never before were
the strains of “O Davidson” heard so widely as on last Saturday night, and let

us hope that they may be so heard more often in the future.
T).

ATTEND Y. M. C. A.
The speaker at our Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday evening, Rev. Long |

of Statesville, certainly brought interestin high! b __ A young lady at G. W. C., in Greenville,
tae y brought us an interesting and highly profitable message |remarked to Fresh Finn that he seemed to
from the life if the Apostle Paul. Very seldom does anyone speak here who | think he was a lady-killer. An acknowledg-
has such a vocabulary and command of the English lenguage as he had. AN | ment of this fact by Finn brought this reply:
opportunity to hear such a talk comes only infrequently and all could ill afford |“The only thing that kills the ladies is the
to miss it. fact that you're around.”
Next Sunday Buck Currie is going to speak to us, and those who were | TheRaIeh ah
not out last Sunday want to join those who were, and all turn out to hear | of i . suet peat to ;
Buck’s talk, As our Y. M..C. A. secretary he is in close touch with all our fegistature sso, OMT Te noe
. pes ete cs vy, ye a legislature, a young lady pointed out War-
college problems, and both in that place and as baseball coach he is in close | hoss Mauze and asked his: name, stating that
touch with us personally. she thought he had a beautiful figure.

‘Shivers and Emily Harper, of Salem;
Misses Mildred Armstrong, Margaret War-
ren and Elizabeth Ragan, of Gastonia;
Misses Eloise Martin, Sarah DePass, Mary
Oeland, Margaret Law and Miss Wilkes, of
Converse; Misses Hamlin Landis and Lois
Rogers, of Charlotte, and Miss Margaret
| Jenkins, of Shelby, were guests of the Kap-
pa Sigma fraternity the past week-end.

while members

T.

NEW LABORATORY COURSE |
For some time plans have been on foot to give Davidson a new course in| jected. The man remarked that if they
laboratory work, but until this spring the course has never been put in our | thought they were in the proper place it was
curriculum. Since Dr. Frazer Hood has had charge of the psychology classes |. K., but that was the colored balcony.
here he has added business psychology, for the benefit of those who desire this | :
sort of preparation for business life, and now the course in experimental |
psychology that he has put in this spring makes this branch of instruction here |
compare very favorably with anything of this nature that can be gotten at
colleges as small as ours.
__—Recently_the apparatus for the laboratory work and_experiments_was
ordered, and its arrival is expected at any time. This set will equip the lab
‘very adequately, especially for the first time that the course has been offered,
and, of course, will be added to as opportunity or necessity arises. This new
lab isivery well situated in a room in the basement of the temporary building,
‘and here the apparatus will be set up when it arrives. This course is a very
ve one, and puts psychology here on an even footing with the other
énces, physics, chemistry and biology, in giving the student first hand
tion of the subject he is interested in. Its success from the beginning

a F Y
Also in Raleigh, Nappy and Pat took seats
in the balcony and when asked to leave ob-

When asked on English’ class recently what
the word “lethargy” meant, Wallace. Moore

; unless you know what it means.

Rogers, the young lad from Baltimore,
will no doubt take Flo Ziegfield’s place soon
since he is such a wonderful director of
minstrels, etc. :

John Bryan is planning to give a course in
carpentry, with especial attention to the art
of driving nails at an early date John drove
so many during the minstrel trip that he feels
well qualified to conduct this class.

It’s surprising the number of sprained ank-

wT

EXCHANGE ||| |
COLUMN ||)!!!

=

Mary G.—I heard the most_peculiar thing
the other day.

Martha Mc.—Tell it, Mary.

Mary G—A man and his wife both had
false teeth. ‘The wife was a great gossiper,
but he hardly ever opened his mouth, One
day, on the car, going to town, he nearly
talked his neighbors’ ears off and, do you
know, it was because he had gotten his
wife’s tecth instead of his own!

‘

‘wo rather unsteady gentlemen were
lodged in the same cell and, after the man-
ner_of companions in adversity, became
chummy.

“Wh-Wha’s shour name?” inquired one.

“Name's Pau,” replied the other.

“Paul? Paul? Oh, sure, Paul,” replied
the first, after searching some obscure cor-
ner Of his memory. “S-say, Paul, quesshun
I been wannin’ t’ ask you for long time. Did
you—didju ever get an answer to that letter
you wrote to the- Eph—Eph—to the Ephe-
sians.”

McNeil—What is the meaning of the word
‘necking’ ?
Dorsey—Necking is the art of collaring a

Wwoman, .

One day as I chanced to pass,
A beaver was damming a river;
And a man who had run out of gas
Was doing the same to his flivver.

Prof. Coolidge—Who made the first ni-
tride? :
Freshman—Paul Revere.

An exchange says that a certain Christian
layman has the following printed on the back
of his business card: ‘The man who swears
does ten things at once: (1) He breaks the
command of God; (2) he violates the law
of the land; (3) he transgresses the rules of
good manners; (4) he outrages decency; (5)
he insults good people; (6) he profanes
sacred things; (7) he shows bad bringing up;
(8) he dishonors his parents; (9) he does
what he is ashamed of; (10) he does what
he will regret.”—Louisiana Wildcat.

Kant—This place certainly turns out good
men.

Decartes—When did you graduate?

Kant—Didn’t graduate; they turged me
out,

Do you know that:

Puget Sound does not come from an
organ?

There is no wood in club sandwiches?

Rebecca did not go to the well with a base-
ball player when she went with a pitcher?

The Kentucky Derby is not a hat?

Sweet Young Thing (looking up from
| market reports her glance his happened on)
|—“Dad, did par go up any on the Exchange
today ?”

|Why' a Girl Closes Her Eyes
| When She’s Kissed

| Yes, it is perfectly true that a girl closes |
her eyes when she is kissed. Not being a
|girl, I can’t speak from experience, but I
have taken a peep now and then and sure
enough what people say is perfectly right.
| Why? That's really too easy to answer—
| about as easy as writing in Hebrew what the
| Sphinx is thinking in some other dead and
| forgotten language.
| Before a person can get very far along
| with an explanation, he must understand just

- | what a kiss really is. Now a kiss is only a

| spontaneous generation of the demonstration
jof the affection expressed in terms of two.
red lips pressed close together; a sublime

| being there are only two people in the world
and all the rest does not matter; a never-to |
be-forgotten_second_which-is-snatched-from-:
the very hands of time; and last, a kiss is|
love's expression that makes itself felt long |

les one sees these days. Wonder what's the |
catise? |

As The Davidsonian goes to press no new
developments along the Walthall-Galloway |
front have taken place. Walthall seem still

to be holding his own in silence.

‘after the kiss is only a memory of one

supreme moment when the entire Universe

| stood still and waited, and when old Father

Time showed signs of weakening, for once
allowing the seconds to pass by without
counting them. ‘That is a kiss.

Now since a kiss has been explained, it is
clear that’ there are many good reasons why
a girl should close her eyes when she is being
kissed. She closes her eyes in order to for-
get all except that one kiss; she closes her
eyes to forget that time is time; she wants
to shut out all material things and really live
for a moment if for no longer; she wants to
dream, for if she were to realize that the
kiss were really a fact, then she might have
heart failure from sheer happiness; she tries
to hide her eyes from her lover, for she
wishes to make him think that he alone is
being granted a great privilege; in short,
and in place of telling the thousand and one
other reason that might be advanced, a girl
closes her eyes when she is kissed because
for one sweet moment she desires to forget
that she is a mortal, desires to live above the
clouds for a lifetime in one short span of
seconds. ‘

Does that not explain why a girl closes her
eyes when she is kissed? If, kind reader,
you think that it does not, then just let me
know. From full experience—not being a
girl, you know—I will take you by the hand
and lead you among the paths that only a
favored few are allowed to tread.—Clemson
Tiger.

Little Mary had seen a baptism at church
on Sunday. Monday her mother finally
found her at the lower end of the garden
where she had dug a hole. She was holding
her pet pussy over the hole and pouring
water over its head while repeating the rit-
ual, “In the name of the Father and the Son
and in the hole he goes.” And in went the
cat.—The Tiger.

At Washington and Jefferson, the seniors
wear a small white ribbon on the coat lapel.
At Pitt cach class wears a distinctive button.
At the University of Tennessee, white sweat-
ers are worn. At Illinois, distinctive hats.
At the University of Pennsylvania, the
seniors wear their caps and gowns two weeks
previous to cemmencement. At Michigan,
seniors carry canes.—The Round Up.

A Good Sport
“He never believes he has played his best.
He never quits.
He has no alibi.
He smiles when he loses.
He is a quiet winner.
He plays fair."—The Tiger.

Ducks

(Composition written by a 12-year-old
boy.)

The duck is a low, heavy-set bird com-
posed mostly of meat, bill and feathers. His
head sets on one end, and he sets on the
other.

There ain't no between to his toes and he
carries a toy balloon in his stomach to keep
from sinking.

The ducks has only two legs and they are
set so far back on his running gear that they
come durn near missing his body.

Some ducks when they get big are called
drakes. Drakes don’t have to set to hatch,
just loaf, go swimming and eat. If 1 was
a duck I'd rather be a drake every time.

Ducks do not give milk but eggs, but as
for me give me liberty or give me death—
Exchange.

A pin is a sort of a funny thing,
Yet one is like the other—
They’re always pointed in one direction
Yet headed in another,
—Emory Wheel.

Fair Visitor—Is there any place aboard
that I can get a drink of water?

Gob—Certainly, miss. At the scuttle-butt,
on the starboard side of the gun deck, ‘mid-
ships, just for’rurd of the dynamo hatch.—
Exchange.

Old Lady—Here’s a penny, my poor man,
Tell me, how did you become so destitute?
Beggar—I was like you, mum—a-giving

| replied it was a kind of poetry. Don't laugh blissful ethereal moment when: for the time *W@Y vast sums to the poor and needy—

Weekly Telegraph.

Teacher—Johnny, what is three times
three?

Johnny—Nine.

Teacher—That’s pretty good, Johnny.
sonny rieiy good, it’s perfect—Se-
lected.

Two Jews were walking down the street
one winter day with their hands in their
pockets. “Vell, vhy don’t you say some-
thing,” said one. “Freeze your own hands,”
replied the other. : e
