_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

WILDCATS SUFFER REVERSAL
(Continued from Page 1)
for his great work under the basket the |
Tigers would have scored more often.
Colbert and Day also showed up well for
the Tigers while Mills played a great game
at guard. :

i

The line-up: we
DAVIDSON (18) CLEMSON (25)
Beall (2).......... RE iveteen Day (6)
Laird (2).......... es carcies Byran (14)
Mauze (8).......... ( OF Spar atic iL Garrison |
Crawford (6)......R. G....... Colbert (3) ,
Boggs .........+55- TRUG ass cssst tere Mills |

Substitutions—Davidson: Davis for Beall;
McConnell for Davis.

Fouls: Mauze, two out of five; Colbert,
five out of six.

Referee: May (Oregon Aggies).

Wofford Game

Two long shots from the middle of the
floor in the last minute of play gave the
Wofford Terriers a 32-30 decision over the
Wildcats in the second game of the trip.
Up to that time the battle had been nip-and-
tuck with the goddess of luck showing fav-
oritism to the South Carolinians.

Wofford offered a stronger line-up on
their home floor than they had used in the
previous game, Lindsey, the stellar Meth-
odist forward, who was sick when the Ter-
riers came north, was back in his place and
his points were way yonder beyond the
margin of victory. Wofford without Lindsey
was a different team. “t

The Wildcats started off with a rush and
caged a couple of shots before Wofford
knew the game had started. It looked like
the affair was going to be a repetition of the
first encounter at Davidson but the Terriers

close range he was a dead sure shot. David- . |
son steadily forged ahead until at the pistol | WTe cut off from the front stairs, so that| the study is made thorough and interesting.

and Black.

ing up counters for the Wildcats, with five
field goals and three good shots out of five
attempts from the 15-foot line—a total of |.
thirteen points.
and Davis, substituting at the pivot position,
scored two more.
forward, and at guard Boggs’ defensive
work was great.
covered the ball under Furman’s goal and
dribbled it out of danger.

eight personal fouls being called on both}

Warhoss was charging to go. He couldn’t
sit on the bench and see his team defeated,
so in the second half he trotted back onto
the floor and led the Wildcats’ attack. His
splendid work in this part of the game was
more remarkable in view of the fact that a
nerve was pressed between two bones of
his shoulder,
Fighting under such circumstances is dis-
playing the real Wildcat spirit!

It was in the second period that Pat Craw-
ford moved up from guard to forward and
wrought havoc in the ranks of Furman’s
defense. At his customary position of run-
ning guard, Pat covers the entire court and
tosses long shots with unerring accuracy; at

shot the score stood 39 to 34 for the Red|

causing excruciating pain. |

LINE COMPLETELY DESTROYS
(Continued from Page 1)

brought to an abrupt, but orderly close, and
the entire congregation rushed to the scene
of disaster.

The situation was taken in hand by the
officers of the military department, the col-
| lege authorities, and members of the student
|body. The first effort was to save Watts
itself, but few minutes were lost in this
fruitless endeavor, most of the energy being
spent in removing college and personal prop-
lerty. Practically everything of value was

rapidly on the third floor that the back rooms |

it was impossible to save the furniture and
many personal belongings. The extent of

Laird followed close to Crawford in mark-

Mauze added two markers |

Beall did good work at

Time after time Sook re-

For Furman, Dobson was high-point man,

with nine to his credit. The 34 points, how-|
ever, were pretty evenly distributed among |
five men, and this consistent goal-shooting, |
combined with good team work, made the |
victory a hard-earned one for Davidson. |

The game was an unusually clean one, only |

sides. All Davidson men report the Furman |
team as good sports and the entire college |

ait \ Ar ahd 4 i as splendid hosts. Line-up: |
soon got to seeing red, and from then on |
the points were hard fought. Wofford man- DAVIDSON (39) FURMAN (54) |
Laird (13)......... R. F......Andrews (5)

aged to forge ahead before the end of the |
LLL ((nsgouubucon LAR hatine Waters (4) |

half and the score stood 18 for Wofford, |
16 for David |Mauze (2).......... (COhiaieaiand Brock (8)
NER REIe Ak A-stanen Davide | Crawiotd: (22)'...R, G....601, Dobson (9) |
SMT ie eet Boges—(0) a Grete Carter (6)

son forged ahead and victory was in their
graps when Gentry, substituting for Lindsey,
caged one of those shots you see once in a
lifetime and the score was tied. A moment
before the whistle blew another rolled in on
a’ shot from the middle of the floor and
Wofford had won.

In spite of the fact that Davidson lost they
put up a better game than at either Clemson
or Furman, and with an even distribution
of the breaks the result would have been
different. Pat Crawford, playing at for-
ward, just for the sake of variety, was run-
ning wild and caged nine field goals. War-
hoss Mauze was a trifle off form and had a
hard time keeping his eye on the basket.

For Wofford Lindsey was the high point
man, with sixteen markers to his credit.
Evidently that wasn’t as good as he was due
to do because Gentry was substituted for
him in the second half. Gentry proved to
be hard to handle, but Boggs stuck pretty
close to him and the best he could do was

‘ to register two goals from the center of the

floor. Line-up follows:

DAVIDSON WOFFORD
Tardi(4) vices cca Be ices Lindsey (16)
Crawford (18)...... Bis scenes Collins (8)
Mauze (6).......... Giiiaieune Childs (0) |
Davis (0)........... Gries Dillingham (2) |
Boggs (0).......... Giniietan Rogers (2),

Staley (0) for Laird, McConnell (2) for
Davis, Gentry (4) for Lindsey, Lindsey for
Collins,. §

Fouls—Laird, two out of two; Mauze,
four out of nine; Lindsey, eight out of |
thirteen; Collins, two out of four.

Referee: Hanes. |

Half—Wofford, 18; Davidson College, 16.)

Furman Game

Pat Crawford was the outstanding figure
in the game which humbled the Purple Hur-
ricane last Friday night. Pat ran wild toss-|
ing the sphere into the basket from every |
conceivable position, bewildering Furman’s|
defense and awing her spectators, with one|
of the best exhibitions of basket-ball playing
they had ever witnessed. ‘The scorekeeper
put down eleven field goals to Pat’s credit.

Playing in hard luck on the South Caro-
lina trip, and remembering Furman's triumph
in the Thanksgiving gridiron battle, David-
son’s quintette ran onto the floor with a
determination to win or bust. From the first
jump the old fighting Wildcat spirit was dis-
played by five speedy, elusive, accurate-|
shooting cage men.

Captain Warhoss started off with his usual
pep, but within three minutes after the first

' whistle a bad fall resulting in a torn liga-
ment in his shoulder and the Wildcat center
was forced to the bench. Nappy Davis took

his place aad filled it well. Nappy’s' drib-
bling }@ feature of the first half. De-

it

Substitutes—Davis (2) for Mauze, Mauze’

for Davis, Simpson for Carter, Ques for
Simpson.

Fouls: Laird, three out of five; Andrews, |

one out of two; Dobson, one out of one.

Guilford Game

Playing without the services of the cap-

tain against one of the strongest teams in
the State was too much of a handicap for
the Fighting Devils, and Guilford copped a
23-15 verdict last Saturday. The game was
hard fought, even rough at times, but the up-
State crew showed uncanny ability to locate
the basket from the middle of the floor.
The Wildcats led at the end of the first half
10-9, but early in the second period Guilford
forged into the lead and thereafter they were
never headed. :

The game abounded in thrill; Crawford’s

wonderful playing, ‘the great game put up
by the Frazier boys, especially J. G.; Boggs’
ability to intercept passes—these are but a

few of the many exciting plays that kept

the spectatros on needle points throughout
the contest.

Pat Crawford looped the pill through the
elusive hoop from mid-floor for the first
points of the game. J. G. Frazier, who
handles the ball to perfection, then went on
a spree and rang up three fouls and a field
goal in rapid-fire order. Crawford and Laird |
put Davidson back in the lead with a field
goal apiece, but the Quakers found the hoop ,
twice. Pat and Red took their turn and a
brace of counters for each put the score at
10-9, the Wildcats on the long end.

The Guilford team guarded closely in the |

|second half and Davidson could register but | these lecture halls will stand as a memorial
two field goals, The visitors, however, lo-| of his life and spirit.

cated the basket and despite the great work |
of Boggs, the Quaker machine rang up ‘field
goals with relentless accuracy.

Pat Crawford was high-point man and the
outstanding player for Davidson. His four |
field goals, all from the middle of the court, |
were beautiful. The defensive work of
Boggs was another feature of the game. He)
prevented many scores by his ability to inter- |
cept passes.

J. G. Frazier was the brightest star for
Guilford. His dribbling was the best ever
seen on the local court, and his passing and
shooting were of high order. J. W. Frazier
also played a bang-up game. .A wonderful
one-arm shot from the sideline brought the
stubby forward a round of applause.

DAVIDSON (15) GUILFORD (23)

Staley (0)......... R. F..J. W. Frazier (6)
Laird (5).......... L. F...J. G. Frazier (9)
Davis (0)............ C........Mackie (0)
Crawford (8)..... RG... ae Ferrell (4)
Boggs (0).:.......L. G..... --Thomas (4)

Substitutes—Beall for Staley, Elkins for
Beall, McConnell | (2) for Laird.

Fouls: Laird,’ one out of two; J. G.
Frazier, three out of seven.

.. dReferee: Faul.

‘years,

|concomitant with achievement and _ attain-

personal losses has not been ascertained at
the time The Davidsonian goes to press.

Few Occupants

There were several seniors, privileged
from attending the morning church service,
in the building at the time the fire was dis-
covered. Men sleeping on the third floor |
were wakened in time to no more than dress |
scantily and escape with an arm full of pos-|
sessions. One man, entrapped by the flames, |
used a rope.to escape from a third floor |
window to safety. |

Had it not been for the few seniors who |
were on hands at the very beginning it is |
doubtless that little personal property could |
have been saved. ‘Two hours after fire was
discovered there were but the red brick walls |
and smouldering ashes left to mark the site |
of the building. The interior woodwork
burned with the rapidity of seasoned timber
and left the brick veneer, a smoking hull
that partly crumbled as it cooled.

Watts was erected in 1908, along the most |
modern lines of architecture known at that |
time. It was a three-story structure of |
twenty-five rooms, built to accommodate fifty
students. It was named for the late George |
W. Watts, of Durham, a staunch supporter |
of Davidson. |
The loss of Watts is partially covered by |

| insurance.

D.

TWO-THIRDS OF FUNDS
(Continued from Page 1)

mercial National Bank, of Charlotte, will be,
named the Bible hall. Davidson has no
warmer friend than Mr. Dunn, and his)
sagacity and business ability have meant}
much to the institution, as he has served
on its finance committee for the past thirty |
Mr. Dunn is an elder in the First
Church, of Charlotte.

As a memorial to Mr. Robert Morrison
Miller, chairman of present campaign and
ex-president of the Davidson Alumni Asso- |
ciation, one of the lecture halls is founded. |
During his administration as president of the
alumni association marked progress was
made in the spirit and organization, and it!
is gratifying to the alumni and all of his |
friends that he is thus memorialized. |

The third memorial room has been founded
in honor of Mr. C. W. Johnston, also a
member of the First Church, of Charlotte,
and devoted to his church and denomination
and that for which they stand. Mr. John-
ston feels that responsibility for service is

ment and this permanent memorial will testi-
fy to this attitude. :

Throughout the State, no name is better
known for Christian philanthropy than that
of the Sprunts, of Wilmington, and it will
be a genuine pleasure to the many friends
of Dr. James Sprunt to know that one of

As a memorial to Mr. R. L. Stowe, of
Belmont, the fifth room is endowed. He
has for years been interested in the Presby-
terian Church and all of its activity, and
other institutions than Davidson College have
been benefited through the benevolence of
the Stowes of Belmont.

Miss Virginia C. Gilmer, a beloved mem-
ber of the Woman’s Auxiliary of the First
| Presbyterian Church, of Greensboro, left a
legacy to the auxiliary upon her death
| recently, to be used for, the advancement of
| Christianity as seemed best to this body.
Members of the auxiliary added to the fund
and established. one of the rooms in the
new Chambers Hall to memorialize the giver
and carry out her wishes as seemed best in
their judgment.

In addition to the above, a prominent Pres-
byterian family, made up of the children and
grand-children of a beloved. deceased min-
ister of the church, have subscribed suffici-
ent funds to found a room to his memory,
but wish no announcement of the fact at
Present. The members of a young men’s
club in one of the churches are’ similarly
founding such a memorial to their minister,

removed from the rooms of the first two; ‘The first part of the study was taken up

floors, but the flames gained headway 80) in considering the striking contrasts which

WEEKLY BIBLE CLASSES
STUDYING AZTEC LAND

| The Bible classes are finding the study of
Mexico, the land of remarkable contrasts,
a most unique study. The first four chap-
ters of Sunrise in Aztec Land, have been
completed. Those who teach the classes are
fortunate in having the instruction of Doc-
tor Porter, who as one time was a missionary
to India. Although the attendance does not
reach the 100 per cent mark, many students
display unusual interest in the classes.

is made of a single chapter, and in this way

It has always been the purpose of the
into consideration the dawn of Christianity
and its early progress. Each week a study

Y. M. C. A, to make the Bible classes inter-
esting and attractive to every student. Each
year some one of the mission fields of the
Presbyterian church has been studied. This
year the study of the Christian work among
the Mexicans has been selected in order that
more knowledge may be had of the needs of
that field and in order to know more about
just what is being done in Mexico. Interpst
has been stimulated in this study by reason
of the fact that the attention of the United
States has been closely kept on Mexico dur-
ing the past few years. It is believed that
those who are not sharing the benefits de-
rived from the weekly Bible classes will
find it well worth their time to attend.

occur in Mexico, between the people as well
as in the topography of the country. Then a
detailed study was made of the pagan and
papal darkness which grips the largest part
of the nation. The last two lessons took

If you have to replenish

have on our shelves sheets,

white and colors.

ARROW.

standing.

TIMELY SUGGESTIONS

will find that the best is the cheapest in the long run. We

PEPERELL and other well-known makes. Turkish and
Huck Towels of standard quality.

Rugs and Chairs especially adapted for dormitory use.
Pajamas of the celebrated “RED CROSS” makes in

Athletic Underwear from B. V. D. at $1.50; S
PAX at $1:25 and HANES at $1.00.
Shirts and Collars from EARL & WILSON and

Socks in cotton, wool and silk from makers of known

MEN’S FURNISHING DEPARTMENT

The M. H. Goodrum & Co.

SOUTH MAIN STREET

your stock of bed linen you

pillow cases and spreads of

For SHOE RE
BLACK & KIMZY,
Get a MUNSON

Commissary.

MILLS SHOE CO.

PAIRING See
10 North Barracks
Shoe for Drill

Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the

Statesville, N. C.

ing

leston, S. C

e °

Atlanta, Ga.
Thursday,

Jacksonville, Fla.
Dr
Church, New Orleans, La.

Jackson, Miss.
Tuesday,

Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor

Nashville, Tenn.
Dr. Dunbar H.

with the request that this be not announced
until completed. Sar

Mobile, Ala.

Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

“Passion in Preaching”
Friday, April 13th

. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”

Wednesday, Bh a
len, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
. The House in Which the Minister Lives”

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presby-
terian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p. m., begin-
Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednes-
dey, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are
invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be
highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible
through the generosity of the ate Dr. Thomas Smyth of Char-

SMYTH LECTURES
Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“Sermonic Sources”

.

April 12th

“The Man’ and His Message”

il 17th .
irst Presbyterian Church,
Ty oi ee s"

18th

