4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mamber of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davi

dson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

p. m. Monday.

LISTON D.
REGINALD L, PRIC

' Editorial
C. M. S. McILWAINE..-

J. A. LAKE “ stant Managing Edi

H. B. PRICE A ant Managing

W. F. GALLOWAY. -----Athletic tor

W. M. I ON-_-----Peanut Parcher Editor

Business

J. R. ie .-Advertising

RK. OW, Advertising

¥} ‘ Subscription

Joo,

GARRISON

WATT McCAIN, Manager

ELKINS

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

ditor-in-Chief
siness Manager

Staff

.---Managing Editor

W. Z. BRADFORD. -Associate Editor
A. C. WILDMAN -Associate Editor
W. M. COX... -Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON-...--- ..-Alumni Editor
Staff

K. S. McALPIN Subscription
W. H. CROMWELI .Bookkeceper
A, M. HURD.-- Department
Suedansesese Ale S18 ti C Q

J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

GREEN,
HURD,

REPORTERS’ CLUB

GIBBS, L.

WHITE, UU, M.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITO

RIAL

AN OPPORTUNITY

TUNT NIGHT has made it bow to the students of Davidson, and the
success of the occasion warrants its perpetuation as an annual student

BY uly function,
deceased Senior Speaking.

Stunt night is well qualified to fll the place of the
It should be preserved as the biggest event of

the Fall calendar, and made a nucleus around which a week-end of social

activity can be builded.

At Davidson a man is trained for mental and physical prowess. The
courses of instruction, the publications, the literary organizations, occa-
sional lectures, sermons, the library, and campus expression all tend to
make of the Davidsonian an intellectual peer. The athletic teams, gym-

nasiums and R.

prowess,

O. ESC,

But
being?

strive toward the development of physical

What is done for the development of the Davidsonsian’s social

The Junior Speaking event in the Spring is the only social occasion
spared, since the abolition of Senior Speaking, [Essential in man’s prepara-
tion for life are those elements of social conduct. the development of which
the average man at Davidson is deprived. These things seem to be for-
gotten in Davidson’s rush for scholastic and athletic attainment, The need
is for a bigggpcial event during the early months of the college vear, and

Stunt Nighf Iffis offered a solution to the problem,

Fall! Junior Speaking in the Spring!

A Davidson graduate should be an all ‘round man. to take
in the ranks of the world, socially as well as intellectually.

D

THE GOLDEN QUILL

Stunt Night in the

Many things are done at Davidson without thought of reward. Stu-
dent body offices are commonly regarded as “thankless jobs,” and the men
who fill these positions must content themselves with the knowledge that
they are contributing a share in the maintenance of the college traditions

and standards.

The Davidsonian reporter is a vital necessity in carrying on the work
of the student body, and yet he receives a smaller sharé of glory for his
accomplishments than any worker in the college. He is working for the

honor of the Davidsonian and Davidson, and he is contented if the stu- |

dent life is brightened or enlivened by the influence of the paper.
_. The Reporters’ Club, realizing that the efforts of the college journal-
ist are not signally appreciated, and that his services to the college
underestimated, formulated a plan several years ago for bestowing a
trivial, yet distinctive honor upon those members of the club who rendered
meritorious service in the reportorial department of the Davidson. | This
plan is the annual award of GOLDEN QUILLS.

The GOLDEN QUILL is significant of work—hard work, service—
It is a frail means of recognizing

real service, and a love for Davidson.
this valuable service to Davidson.

D.

DAVIDSON BOOSTERS

The bold asseverations directed toward the R. O. T. C. band in the
columns of the OPEN FORUM last week, and the direct slur on the col-
lege spirit of the leader of the band, seem to be unfounded. The R, O. T.
C. band, though not organized primarily for the purpose of playing at
athletic contests, has shown its willingness to perform whenever possible

in support of the Davidson teams, and its spirit is above reproach.

At the Rock Hill game the band was the life and soul of the Davidson
pep; without it we would have made a poor show against the rooters from
Presbyterian College. No organization on the hill, not excepting the stu-
dent body in their pep meetings, devotes as much time toward organized
spirit and pep, as does the R.O. T.C. All the more credit is due the mem-_
bers of the band, when we consider that this display of spirit is entirely |6. Wise Mc

oe

_ voluntary, and that the time ‘spent in-practicing and playing for games is a| Vest.
clean cut addition to the practice periods required by the Military | A

Department.

The band is boosting Davidson! Boost the band!

are

; to help the band help the team, and thus
his place | do their share in maintaining the honor
jand glory of old Davidson.

Open Forum -}

|

(This department is conducted by the editor, |
for the benefit of those members of the stu- |
dent body, or faculty, who desire to express |
their opinions on any matter which might arise
during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the |
Javidsonian staff that the column will be con- |
ducted for the betterment of compus life, and |
that the students will express themselves freely |
nd enter into open-hearted’ discussions on |
ipus problems. The names of the writers
he withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. All articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. |
Monday.) |

A REPLY TO MR. “PEP” |
The Band of the Davidson Colege unit!
of the R. O. T.°C., as an organization, |
the individuals of the above mentioned |
band and the leader of the same wish to,
protest against the gentle mauling re-|
ceived in these columns last week.

We can see no reason why we should
receive so unjust and unfair criticism. |
In the first place, the article is so abnor-!
mal in its allegations, so choked with!
spleen and unfairness that a logical de-
fense is impossible. In the second place, |
it hard for a unit to defend itseli
properly against ambush. ~The band has
no apologies, few explanations and few
statements to make to Mr. “Pep.”

The RK. O. PT. C. Band is composed prin- |
cipally of raw material and having been}
organized barely a month ago to date.
could hardly be expected to make its
debut two weeks after organization. Mr.
Pep admits that the noises emanating
Hall regular intervals
sound as though they might be produced
by a band of some sort, but certainly
does not imply that they are very beau-

is

from Shearer at

tiful, according to his way of thinking.
Why is it that he would have such hor-
rible inflicted in the midst of a
football game? All things have a time
and a place. The band begs the follow-
ing trifles of those interested: that they
bear its existence until the proper time,
then examine it and offer criticism, with
the that the
structive; for no one appreciates being
“hounded.” Be

The banth and the band leader wish
the insinuation
garding school spirit and backbone. The
individual members of the band feel that
they offer fully as much devotion and
lovalty to their Alma Mater might
reasonably expected of student,
and their instrumental ef-

In addition to this, they do what
they can, and are mercilessly upbraided
for not doing more.

We can hardly see the connection be-
tween backbone and the business of play-
ing at a football game. .

To Mr. Pep, we wish to express our
heartfelt’ thanks for one clause, name-
ly: “When their mean
much.” Tt is a challenge to cach of us
to do our best.

noises

request criticism be con

to protest against re-

as
be a
over above

forts,

services so
It is a challenge to those
members of the student body who can,

JOS. RL EARNEST.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS COVER
VARIOUS TOPICS

The following books have been added to
the college library:

1. Black Owen by Gertrude Atherton,

This novel beautiful) Mary
Zatianny, a woman born’ ito one of New
Yorks families and who has lived the greater
part of her life in the diplomatic circles of
Europe.

2. The Middic of the Road by Phillip Gibbs.

This is the first representative novel of the
Europe of the 20thecentury, His absorbing
story moves“with vivid truthfulness in Eng-
land, Ireland, France, Germany and Soviet
Russia.

3. Scholarship and Service by Nicholas But-
ler,

concemms a

This volume constitutes an interpetation of
the modern university in terms of its ideals,
of its problems and of its councils. |
4. Legends and of Spain
Lewis Spence.

This book traces the origin of the Moors
and tells of Spanish Romances and humorous
stories and will interest everybody.

5. The Causes of the War of Independence
by Van Tyne.

This book is the result of twenty years
of investigation by the author who is head
of the history department of the University
of Michigan. To read this book for a his-
tory will be both illuminating and authori-
ative.

Romances by

rn From the East and From the

notable interpretation of the East to
| the West. It explains social, religious and
industrial differences. It points out the

7. Spain in Silhouette by Trowbridge Hall.
Hall gives in this book in his vivid and

eager fashion an account of his trip through

Spain.

8. The Liberal College by Alexander Meik-

lejehn.

A book full of a thorough and frank dis-
cussion of the fundamental problems of Col-
lege Education and the function which the
college should fulfill in American life and
thought.

PLANS TO MAKE GREATER
MAGAZINE MOVE RAPIDLY

At the beginning of this year The David-
son College Magazine staff decided to com-
bine The Davidson College Magazine with
the publication presented by the Junior Class
at last year's Junior Speaking, Cap and
Bells. ‘

The publication, which will retain the name
Thy Davidson College Magazine, goes to
press this week, and bids fair to be one of
the best put out by any college,

W. FP. Galloway is the Editor-in-chief and
A.M. Martin is Humorous Editor.

The plan this year is to have at least fif-
pages of Piggy
Martin requests that all good jokes be turned
in to him as soon as possible, The editorial
staff is endeavoring to avoid the use of ex-

teen original humor, and

change jokes,
Instead’ of two issues, as last year, there
are to be four, and cach one promises to be

the best yet. The magazine is to be larger

oth in size and number of pages than here-

tofore.

Financially, the magazine is in better con-
dition than ever before, this end being held
down by Allan M. Hurd, Business Manager,
and J. M. Selser who are working like tro-
jans for advertisements,
AESCULAPIAN CLUB PLANS

BUREAU OF INFORMATION

The Aeseculapian Club recently held a
meeting to perfeet plans for their operation
this year. Seventeen old men were present
at the meeting and the consideration of new
men occupied part of their time,

The club has some new plans on foot tor
this year’s work, and among them will be the
adoption of a bureau of information, which
will procure pamphlets and such literature
as will be of help to the pre-medical stu-
Any information can obtained
through this bureaw regarding the leading
medical the country, and cata-
logues of these institutions will be on hand
for reference,

dents. be

schools of

Officers for the coming year are: RR.
Jones, president; A. P. Hudgins, vice-presi-
dent; W. 1. Howell, secretary and R. HH,
Brown, treasurer,

CLASS BASKETBALL STARTS
WHEN COACHES ARE
APPOINTED

At last
started,

ball has
Practice has begun and everything
is progressing nicely, Coaches to direct each
team have been appointed by Coach Younger.
The Fresh team will be coached by Spec Me-
Connell; the Sophmores by McBeall; the
Junior by Tom Staley and the Seniors by
Elkins. A tentative schedule
practices has been announced as follows:

The Seniors from 3 to 4:30 P. M., the Fresh

from 4 to 6 P. M., the Junior from 8 to 9

P. M,, and the Sophs from 9 P, M, on,

The Senicrs look the best at present as
they have very nearly the same teain that
played for them last year. Elkins, McBryde,
Boushee, McLaurin, Price, MeMillan, Cur-
ric, Brown, Streibech and Story seem to be
their main men,

The Juniors, while not ‘having the team
that ran away with the championship last
year, promise to make some team fight if
they are going to take the honors away from
them this term. The men standing out most
prominently are: McNair, Gracey, Price,
Ocland, Wharton, Brice, Twist Mathews
and Piggy Martin. :

The Sophomores finishing on the bottom
last year are out for revenge. They will |
have many men that they did not have last |
year. The most likely looking men are: |
Davis, Huie, Lindley, Cooke, Blue, Lindley, |
A. C., Oden, Coltrane and Parker. |

The Freshmen has not organized yet but
will be up and doing things before many |
days have passed. They have not as yet |
clected a manager. The captains have not |
yet been elected, but the managers for the |
three upper classes are as follows: Seniors, |
Hodgin, G. M.; Juniors, Staley, T. F.; |
Sophmores, Davis, M. C. |

The playing suhedule witl begin the twenty- /
third of this month. Each team will play
six games, two games will be played each |
week, |

the class basket season

Liston for

| remedies for present conditions in the East | NEW TOWN WATER SYSTEM

lagainst European administration.

PROGRESSING RAPIDLY

The citizens of Davidson have long had
a very inadequate supply of water from the
college tank and other private sources, but
ever since the first pipes were laid under
Main street in the summer of 1922 work has
been going forward towards the completion
of a more modern and. efficient city water
system,

The new sytem will supply the entire
town with water, and will greatly reduce the
fire hazard both in the town and on the
campus. The city supply, however, will not
be available for the use of the college ex-
cept in emergencies, as the connection be-
tween the two systems is controlled by a
cut-off valve.

The central tank, now under construction,
will be located behind the cemetery, It will
be 110 feet in height and with a capacity of
100,000 gallons, while the college tank holds
only 80,000) gallons. The conerete
voir is back of Mr. Joe Gamble's residence,
near the grade crossing. This has a capacity
of 200,000 gallons and is equipped with both
gasoline and electrically driven pumps. The
wells are being sunk beyond the new under-
short out The
contractors have been having a great deal of
trouble with these wells, but they seem to be
in better shape now, and the rest of the
work is also nearing completion. As soon
as the wells are finished and conneeted with
the main line of pipe, the new system will
he ready for operation.

reser-

pass, a distance of town,

WILDKITTENS WIN HARD
SCRAP FROM CONCORD HIGH

The light-weight Davidson High School
eleven invaded Concord’s territory last Fri-
day and returned with a draw game to their
credit, 6 and 6,

Coached by W. TH. Moore, of the Class of
23 at Davidson College, Concord’s team is
recognized as one of the best in this section.
In the first half of the game they outplayed
Davidson, and scored touchdown
straight football. The period ended with
the ball on Davidson's 8-yard line, but with
cleven Wildkittens fighting madly.

Davidson came back with a rush in the see-
ond half and outplayed the home team.
covering the ball on his 30-yard line, Dick
Grey made a spectacular end run for 60
yerds and a touchdown, ending the scoring
for the day. Concord attempted a counter
attack, successfully completing several for-
ward passes, but the Wildkittens were fight-
ing ever yinch of ground, and their goal was
not threatened again.

The visitors made two first downs as com-
pared to Concord’s cight, and it must be said
in justice to the home team that they were
handicapped by loss of quarterback Riden-
hour, who broke a shoulder the previous
week while playing Charlotte High and is
out The final score shows
the old Davidson spirit of never-say-die, the
spirit which makes up in determination and
fight what is lacking in weight and exper-
jence.

Re-

for the season.

O. J. ALLISON ANNOUNCES
ANNUAL BUSINESS STAFF

O. J. Allison, business manager of the
Davidson Annual, announces the selection
of the following men who will assist him
this year: R. W. Oeland, T. B. Brown, A.
N. Moffatt, of the Junior class and E. P.
O'Connor the Sophomore class. The
work of these assistants will be of a clerical
nature. They will begin their campaign for
advertisemets next week. Mr. Allison’ will
make a most efficient business manager, hav-
ing already proven his ability by his wise
and scrupulous selection of assistants. With
such an excellent business department and an
equally worthy editing staff, the students
have every reason to believe that the best
Annual that has ever left Davidson College
will be sent forth this year. The Annual is
one of the main live wires of the College
and necessitates the loyal support of every
Davidsonian in making this year’s Annual
one that Davidson will be proud of, and one
that will win the respect and admiration of
all who read it.

of

JUNIOR CLASS ELECTS POET
AND HISTORIAN

The Junior class held a meeting last Mon-
day morning for the purpose of electing their
class historian and poet. Harry Price and
Wallace Purdy have served in the respective
capacities for the past two years, and recog-
nizing the ability and worth of these two
students, a motion was -made and. unani-
mously carried that these two be re-elected.
