THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

ah

\=

A WORD OF GREETING
FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE CLASS

Greetings to the Men of 1902:

I have been requested to send a
word of greeting to you through the
pages of the Davidsonian. Since
graduation day I have been too busy
to follow your personal fortunes very
closely; but I think, each and all of
you have won a place in life attended
with some degree of success.

If any of you have failed, try again;
if any of you are discouraged, hope
on; if any of you have turned back,
face about; if any of you have won
success, use it, not for personal grati-
fication, but for the larger things of
life. ~

You are in the prime and glory of
life. Now is the most miurtvelous
age of human history. Every door is
an open door. Men at heart are good.
The world fundamentally sound.
Every man gets from the world that
which he puts into the world. It de-
pends upon you as to whether the
voices that greet you speak in growls
of thunder or in sympathetic, encour-
aging terms of ministering angels.

It’s up to YOU!

1s

Yours,
SAM E, HODG ES.

THOMAS PAYNE BAGLEY
“Tom”

B.S.; Phi; Pi K. A.; Marshal, 98; See-
ond Supervisor, Vice-President and First
Critic of Society; Class Football; Class
Baseball; Captain Class Football, '99; Exec-
utive Committee Athletic Association; Busi-
ness Manager and member Mandolin and
Guitar Clubs, Secretary and Treasurer,
German Club.

After graduation, Mr. Bagley accepted a
position with the city schools in Wilmington,
N. C,, his home town, where he taught for
two years. He died in 1904, following a brief
illness.

WILLIAM RUSSELL CLEGG
“Pap”

B.S.; Phi; First Supervisor, Vice-Presi-
dent of Phi Society; Debater’s Medal; Com-
mencement Orator, '01; President Society;
Class Baseball; Class Football; Class His-
torian, '00-01; Varsity Football, 02; Editor
Quips and Cranks, ’02.

“After graduation, Mr. Clegg began work
in his home towh of Carthage, N. C., and
has remained there. At present he is at the
head of a large bank, and has other business
connections as well. He has succeeded in
life in a large way, and Davidson is proud
of his success.

ROBERT THORNWELL COIT.
“Bob”

A.B.; Phi; First Critic, Second Critic,
Vice-President, First Critic of Society ; Vice-

S. & W.
CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and
Courteous Service
Is Our Specialty

Charlotte Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

FEEDS?
W. B. BARNETTE

AND CO.
We specialize in Shoes

President Class '99-'00; Secretary Y. M. C.
A., '00-'01; Commencement Orator; Mar-
shal; Editor, Davidson College Magazine,

President Y. M..C. A.; Vice-President
Student Body; Library Committee.

Mr. Coit chose the mission field as his life
work, and upon completing his theological
course at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., he took up active work on the
mission field at Soonchun, Korea, where he
has brought honor to himself, his Alma
Mater, and his Class.
al

PALMER CLISBY DuBOSE
“Big Bow”

A.B.; Eu; Beta Theta Pi; Vice-President,
and Reviewer of Society; Commencement
Orator; Orator’s Medal; Class President,
‘98-099; Captain, Class’ Football; Library
Committee ; Editor Quips and Cranks, ‘02.

Mr. DuBose'’s parents were missionaries in
Soochow, China, and quite naturally, he de-
cided to follow in his father’s footsteps.
Upon completion of his studies at Davidson
he entered Union Seminary, and from there
sailed for China. He has proved his mettle
on the mission field, where he has achieved
great things.

RUFO McAMIS FITZPATRICK
“Fitz”

-A.B.; Phi; Kappa Sigma; Vice-President,
First Critic of Society; Marshal; Varsity
Football (3 years); Varsity Baseball (4
years); Varsity Track (3 years) ; Captain
Class Football, '98; Captain Varsity Foot-
ball, 00; Executive Committee; Secretary
and Vice-President, AthJetic Association ;
Editor Quips and Cranks, ‘98-02; Editor
Magazine, '00-'01; Class Historian, '96;
President Tennis Association. -

Mr. Fitzpatrick came to Davidson from
Asheville, N. C. Upon graduation from col-
lege he returned to Asheville and entered
business. He enlisted in the state militia in
1912, and served on the Mexican border. At

} and Hose-for 'College Men:

the outbreak of the war he was commissioned

Chief Marshal; Editor-in-Chief Magazine; |

We are happy indeed of the privilege of devoting the Alumni page of this issue of the David-
sonian entirely to the class of 1902. A summary of the graduates
follows on this and the next page

CLASS OF 1902

| Total number Graduates ~--------- 14
1 Ministers

| yon iy .
| Missionaries ..  -.-----_- 3
| Doctors 22sis2. 5 sees 2
| aWyGriecewe ot oe eo os 1
Civil Engineer -...-._____ 1
MRCAGHEH ss wes= ocr ns 1
| Business i es ee ee 2
{ >
Ratimet: 2222s ee ee 1

list Lieutenant. On August 5, 1917, he sailed
\for France, as Commander of Company B,
115th Machine Gun Battalion, 30th Division,
which position he held until October 10;
| 1918,
10, 1918, removed to an army hospital in
London, where he spent four months. Lieu-
tcnant Fitzpatrick was returned to the United
States in March, 1919. ‘In September, 1920,
he was commissioned Captain, which rank
ke hos at present. He is now doing R. CO
T. C. wok in Dallas, Tex. Captain Fitzput-
rick is cne of the outstanding men +f his
class.
PETER GAILLARD GOURDIN
“Pete”

B.S.; Eu; Sigma Epsilon; Secretary, Vice-
President of Society; Business Manager
Magazine; Class Track; Varsity Track; |_i-
brary Committee. ,

Mr. Gourdin chose Civil Engine:
his field of labor, and after several years’
preparation settled in Kingstree. S. C., his
native city. Mr. Gourdin is today ove of
the leading citizens of Kingstree, a loyal sen
fo* ‘Davidson, ‘whose fabors fase deen re-
warded with unusual success.

SAMUEL EDGAR HODGES
“Parson”
A.B.; Secretary, Supervisor, Vive-Presi-
dent of Society; Editor Magazine; Treas-

He was wounded in battle on October |

| VICTOR A‘ v BRUNSWICK

urer Y. M.. CC. A.; Vice-President Class,
98-99; Secretary Class, '99-’2), President
i Class, ‘01-02; Editor Quips and Cranks, ‘02;
| Class Baseball.

Mr. Hodges, as signified by iis nickname,
lentered the ministry, preparing himself ror
jthis work at Union Theological Seminary.
Since graduating from Seminary, Mr. Hudges
| has occupied several important pulpits, and is
at present doing a fine work as pastor of

on

CAPTAIN REID MORRISON
OUTSTANDING MAN OF ’02

Rufus Reid Morrison is one of the out-

=]standing members of the class of 1902, who

have placed themselves in a position to merit
the. praise of the world. Reid Morrison came
from Mooresville, N. C., to enter Davidson
College with the class of 1902, and before
its graduation, had well made his mark in it.
After graduation, he took up the profession
of medicine in Mooresville, for which he had
prepared himself while in college.

At the entrance of the United States into
the World War, Mr. Morrison organized, in
July, 1917, a company at Mooresville, N. C.,
which was afterwards inducted into the na-
tional army, August 5, 1917, as Battery G,
113th Field Artillery. Among the first to be
sent to France from Camp Sevier, Okla.,
Captain Morrison took part in all the im-
portant engagements of the American forces.
He sailed May 27, 1918, arrived in France,
and took up his training at Camp Coatqui-
dan; being sent a short time later to the
front, where he fought in the Toul offensive,
St. Mihiel offensive, Meuse-Argonne offen-
sive, Troyes defensive, and” the Woevre
He arrived in the United States
on March 19, 1919, and was discharged from
service March 28, 1919,

Prior to his enlistment into the Expedi-
tionary Forces, Captain Morrison had seen
service in the Mexican Border Patrol of 1916
asaan officer in the National Guard. He
had also been in the service for 10 years as
instructor in side arms in the national army.
Coming from a long line of warriors, it is
no wonder that Captain Morrison found his
calling partly as a fighter through ‘these
wars. His father was an officer under
Stonewall Jackson during the Civil War, and
among his ancestors, many names are put
down as officers under the famous generals
of the world.

It may be interesting to note that Reed
Morrison's grandfather was the first pres-
ident of: Davidson College, and the impetus
from which came the high standing of the
college today. The name of Morrison is
ever to be connected with the renown of Da-
vidson College.

offensive.

the First Presbyterian Church, Annisten,
Ala. His address is 216 East Tenth Strect,

“1 Anniston, Ala.

JOHN WILSON McCONNELL
“Mae”

B.S.; Eu; Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Secre-
tary society, 00; V.-Pres. Society, 01; Pres-
ident Society, 02; Reviewer Society, ‘01;
Chairman Executive Committee, '01-'02; De-
claimer’s Medal; Class Basketball Team;
Class Football Team; Manager Class Foot-
ball Team, '01; College Track Team (3
years) ; Manager College Track Team, '02;

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly —

GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMB.NES
AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PInNO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC

Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Ine.

CHARLOTTE

»

