8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

Ducks---Principal Theme of Interview
With World-Renowned Irwin S. Cobb

Davidson Editor and Glee Club
Leader Discuss Many Subjects
With Famous Entertainer—Cobb
Passes Through Charlotte Unsung

Irvin S. Cobb, writer and lecturer of na-
tional fame, lectures a heap and writes a
heap more, but in the mad rush and hurry of
modern life, and ‘midst the bothersome
clamor for Cobb entertainments and stories,
the great human philisopher sometimes finds
an outlet from a seeming labyrinth of tours
and speaking engagements and interviews.
Mr. Cobb has spent the past two months—

Sh—sh—This bit of information was given
confidentially to the Editor of The David-
sonian in a smoking car of the Piedmont
Limited, some two weeks ago, and is not for
the public ear. No one was about but Ted
Jones, president of Davidson's musical per-
formers, who were returning from a visit to
Atlanta, Mr. Cobb, prince of all entertainers,

and the busted college editor, returning from}

the city of skyscrapers and Agnes Scott.
What a heavenly opportunity for a press
reporter. Mr. Cobb and Mr. Jones were
discussing topics of the hour, ye editor was
nervously fingering his last thin dime, the

| Piedmont Limited was tearing through the
foothills that taper away from the Blue
_ Ridge, and the conversation drifted to Mr.
| Cobb himself. Sh—sh—it’s a strictly confi-

dential interview, and Mr. Cobb doesn’t want
i;his friends on Broadway to know what he’s
i been shooting these past two months.

Ducks! There you are. Ducks! On the
Gulf coast, out of New Orleans, where the
feathered quacks spend their winter vacation,
the human naturalist has been banging away.
“It’s the best shooting in the New World,”
he remarked, when questioned as to his luck.

The versatile speaker with the massive
chin and the piercing eye spoke of other
things than ducks, however. He alluded ap-
provingly to North Carolina, the “growing-
est state in the Union.” “Give a community
a good road, so that a man may meet his
friends, and give it a school house where its
children may be educated—then you have
progress and prosperity,” he said in discuss-
ing North Carolina’s progressive policies of
the past few years. The enterprise of her
people, her climate, her open doors to the
progress of the world, and her natural re-
sources are factors in the growth of North
Carolina, he added,

The conversation changed to college Glee
Clubs, to homesteading in Florida, and- then
to something else.

“Journalism is the most open of all profes- |
“The newspapers are!

sions,’ he opined.
always on the lookout for some person to say

something new, or say the old things in a)

new way.” It is Mr. Cobb’s opinion that a
young man or woman can fnake no mistake

by entering the field of journalism at the

present time, provided there is. some, inclina-
tion toward journalistic endeavor.

Mr. Cobb was questioned as to his views
with regard to the small colleges as compared
with the great universities. He replied
without a moment of hesitation, asserting
himself in favor of the small institutions
where individuality is developed and where

difficult task to lead him into a hunting
story.. When the Piedmont Limited passed
through Charlotte Monday afternoon, a week
ago, the popular entertainer was still talking
of hunting ducks, in all probability, entirely
ignorant of the fact that he was passing
through the home of the greatest “duck
lover” and “duck writer” in 48 states. Bailey
Groome missed the most glorious “duck
story” that ever floated through North Caro-
lina when the through train pulled out of
Charlotte. Mr. Cobb came, and went, un-
heralded and unsung by Mr. Groome, of duck
fame.

TENNIS COURTS TO BE RE-
PAIRED AND NEW COURTS
CONSTRUCTED

the dormant qualities of the college man are |

brought to the surface by special training and
personal contact with instructors and fellow
students. “The large universities have a
tendency to regiment its students through
their college career with little thought for
developing personality and individuality. The
small college is bound to come to the front.”

The tobacco fields of Tennessee and Ken-
tucky, and the rise of the tobacco industry
in Georgia and Florida, were subjects for
discussion, and finally the conversation drift-
ed back to the big duck shoot in Louisiana.
Mr. Cobb is an ardent huntsman, having
spent the best part of the past couple months
recreating in the duck marshes, so it was no

What a difference
\ just a few cents make!”

BILLY SUNDAY

The Charlotte Observer

aq

_SIX WEEKS FOR $1

Every sermon deliverd by the world’s greatest evangelist during the six weeks”
revival campaign he will open in Charlotte, December 30, will be printed in full in the
issue following its delivery.

Billy Sunday's thrilling phraseology, his gestures and platform antics, and the
manner in which his sermons are received by the thousands who will jam the specially
constructed tabernacle, will be duly recorded by an Observer staff reporter.

The fact that The Observer is a morning paper will enable it to give a more com-
plete report of the services‘than any other Charlotte newspaper.

In addition to the

let. d

Billy S

y reports, The Observer will carry every

piece of news developing in North and South Carolina, the local news handled by a
large corps of reporters, and the world news gleaned from a complete Associated Press

service, Features,

Te |

ial ar

I) sd

of general interest and an editorial page

second to none in the South, make up a paper that is more than desirable.

SPECIAL RATE OF ONE DOLLAR TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS
scien OR THE SIX WEEKS IF SENT IN. BEFORE DECEMBER 20.

Next spring, according to a statement made
by Mr. Van Sant, the college engineer, the
terrace below the present tennis court, upon
which the Freshman football team held prac-
tice, will be converted into four new courts
for the students. The completion of the
| Freshman grid field will leave this ground
free.

The surfacing of the upper courts will also
be worked over. The backstops, which are
badly in need-of repair, will be rewired and
set back to allow more playing space. At
present this lack of room in the back court
is a decided hindrance, All these improve-
ments will do much toward keeping. tennis
interest high and will help to put a winning
team in the field.

Two new courts are being built on the
vacant lot to the west of the Infirmary for
ithe “Faculty Tennis Club.” This organiza-
tion, formed lately among the younger mem-
bers of the faculty, will have the exclusive
use of these new courts. The college engi-

neer, Mr. Van Sant, who is in charge of:

the construction, promises the completion of
the finest kind of ‘playing surface within a
short time. The grounds are furnished the
club by the college.

A)

LIBRARY NEWS

Some Impressions of My Elders, by St.
| John G, Ervine, one of three new books at
the Library, is an edition of informal essays
\in which the author talks intimately of a
number of the foremost writers of England
‘and of Ireland whom he numbers among his
friends—Galsworthy, Shaw and Synge,
Wells, Yeats and Chesterton, Arnold Ben-
nett and George William Russell.

Mr. Ervine’s character sketches are witty
and penetrating and he throws new light on
the work of these men by his keen and sym-
pathetic criticism,

Human Nature in the Bible, by William |

Lyon Phelps, is a happy combination—a
book by an inspiring teacher of men, written
with sprightly humor, depicting the charac-
ters that to many of us are little more than
| names, just as if they were alive today in the
‘twentieth century, telling stories of the great-
est and most interesting book in the world.

Courage, by J. M. Barrie, is the rectorial
‘address delivered at St. Andrew's University,
| May 3, 1922,

| CALENDAR

Thursday, December 20:
1:30 p. m., Christmas Holidays be-
gin.
Thursday, January 3, 1924:
8:30 a. m., Chapel .
7:30 p. m., Eumenean Society. ”
7:30 p. m., Philanthropic Society.
| Sunday, January 6:
10:00 a. m., Bible classes.
| 1:15 p. m., Christian Endeavor.
2:00 p. m., Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m, Y. M. C. A.
Tuesday, January 8:
7:00 p. m., Pandeinic Society.
7:15 p. m., Metrophilian Society.

Proposed Holiday Trip
Cancelled by Glee Club

Tour Through Florida and Parts of
Georgia Put Off on Account of
Competition in Field

Due to the fact there was not time to make
out a satisfactory schedule, and also that the
Yale and Princeton Glee Clubs will make the
same trip, the proposed trip of the Davidson
College Glee Club through Florida and parts
of Georgia was cancelled. Manager C, V.
Brown regrets this action, but states that
the cancellation of the tour during the Christ-
mas holidays was found advisable in view of
conditions that were unavoidable.

The trip through the Carolinas and Georgia
the first week in December was a decided
success from every standpoint, and every
indication pointed towards an even more
successful tour during the holidays. At every
place in which the concerts were given, large
| and enthusiastic audiences were on hand, The
| College received an incalctilable amount of

the best kind of advertising from this trip,
and it was hoped by all concerned that a new
territory in the shape of Florida vould be,
traversed during the second trip. Under the
!tutelage of Mrs. Baker, of Charlotte, a
musician and choral instructor of note, the
| Glee Club proved themselves worthy of be-
ing known as one of the best musical or-
!ganizations in Dixie. A repertoire includ-
ing both instrumental and vocal music gained
‘the admiration and warm praise of every
audience played during their trip.

| The tentative schedule called for a fitst
| night performance at Charlotte on the even-
ing of the 20th, the date of the starting of
|the Christmas holidays, The remainder of
‘the trip was to have been as follows: Dé-
cember 21st, Columbia, S. C.; December 22d,
Savannah, Ga.; December 24th, Waycross,
Ga.; December 25th, Jacksonville, Fla.; De-
| vember 26th, Miami, Fla.; December 27th,
| Palm Beach, Fla.; December 28th, Daytona,
| Fla. ; December 29th Valdosta, Ga.; January
Ist, Atlanta, Ga. The trip would have been
/made with the Glee Club intact, including its
, three orchestras, except for’ two or three
| members who would have found it impossible
to go. i

To make up for this part of their year's
lactivities the club will petition the faculty
| for permission to tour the various colleges
and larger cities of Virginia some time dur-
ing the spring term,

“YOUNG CLOSES HONOR STORE
UNTIL AFTER THE
HOLIDAYS

Because C. A. Young, who has been man+
aging the Honor Store so well this year, has
left carly to spend the holidays at his home
in Sioux City, Iowa, the Honor Store was
closed on Saturday and will remain closed
till the end of the Christmas holidays.

; The store will be opened immediately after
the Christmas holidays.

|

Announcing Our New
Location Near Post Office

NORTON ? BARBER

SHOP

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS
— FOR RINT—

Masquerade Costumes - Party
Favors - Novelties - State your

wants. Mail orders given
prompt attention.

Southern Awning &DecoratingCo.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE
WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte
Ghatlotterss2s2s2- 2222 secs 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
| Hiuntersyille=2: 222. 22. 2222 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
| Gornelilisiess2 Ses Sb SSeS 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidsone sess cs2s SSks fees 8:30 11:30 2 :00 6:30
Mooresville ---. ---. ---. ---- 8:45 11:45 2:15 z 6:45
| Mroutmaisss! ssc soos; Sane 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
| Statesville: 2-2..- 22-2) S22. Las 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
| A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Leaves Statesville ‘
; A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville ---. ---. ~~ 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman -22- -2.- 22os 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville)2s. 2203 (2225 22 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidsonns=-2/s--<---225-s=S5 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Gorneliusie ce; 2255 52S eee 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville .. ..-. ---. ---- 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte-o. cuca acceso 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30
For Further Information See Driver

