Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

|

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: j
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7
. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

:00

EDITORIAL STAFF
D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
‘ W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.
S. McILWAINE, eat M’n'g’g Editor

L.

© a 4, ee Hale We MicCOXiresiecessseseeed Associate Editor
Fe TE ROOD, ee anaging or A. C. WILDMAN......... Associate Editor
WwW. F. GALLOWA eee ; i
W. Mt. HESTON oo Peanut: Parcher 3 At GARR 604... +. Associate Editor
Exchange Editor R. R. JONES....... .-Alumni Editor
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT |
a R. L. PRICE, Business Manager
‘WATT McCAIN......... Circulation Manager P. J. STORY.......-.6- Subscription Manager
ASSISTANTS

J. L. McLEAN W. H. CROMWELL

J. A. THOMPSON

G. A. McCLAIN

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WALTHALL, D. B., Pres, BROWN, W._P. MONK, C.F.
WHARTON, D. B., ices CALHOUN, M. P. POMEROY, W. L.
Pres. EARNEST, J. R. ROGERS, G. D.
PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas. TREEN, J. 1 SELSER, 7. M.
ALLISON, O, J. A.M. SME, be Te
AUSTIN, JAC McMILLAN, STORY, FT.
BEALL, McP, S. MILTON, W. E. WEIMER, ot. M.
BOWIE, A. Y. MOFFETT, A. N, WILLIAMS, JT. M.

MOORE, W. H.

It is with sincerity that the student body extends their sympathy to Alfred Moffett, |
who was called home last week at the death of his mother.

D
AN OPPORTUNITY

Junior peaking was an eye-opener, the Soph Banquet proved to be a success in every |
Tespect; now, the student eye is focused on Commencement. The Seniors have one |

OPEN FORUM

sSSSSSSSSERSSISERRS SES Tess ee ease st 333334 3]
After the three month’s trial agreed upon
when the idea was first proposed, the Court
of Control has been permanently installed
by hte student-body. Enough time has |
elapsed for a good working basis to be’!
determined, and meetings have been held |
every week. In every way it is working to |
measure up to the expectations of the three |
upper classes, and to show that it can do |
all that hazing did in the way of keeping up |
freshman pep, and a great deal more than
hazing could ever have done. |

A new court will be elected as soon as}
the student-council is elected. Frow now,
on, the Freshmen will be required to march!
to all baseball games in a group and sit to-|
gether. The present Court began work un- |
der a handicap, in that it started out in the
middle of the year, but next year the Fresh
will be started in the straight and narrow
path from the first. |

The fact remains, however, that the sup-
port of the entire student body is necessary
for complete success. There is no room
for those prophets of evil who predict that
the Court will become another Vigilance
Committee.
himself to abolish hazing, the old ideas of

controlling new men will have to be for-'

gotten‘in backing the Court. The new step
has the unqualified approval of the outside
world, and it is up to the men of Davidson
to show what real Davidson spirit is, and
to make it go.

The Senior class originated the idea, and
the three upper classes of next year have a
big job ahead of them. Let’s back them to
the limit!

“A PUSHER.”
D

Wildcat Nine Fronts Stiff
Bill During Next Week

(Continued from Page 1)

According to the dope sheet Clemson
should put it all over us, but as it has been |
said before, you never can tell.

Furman this year has about broken even

Since every man has pledged

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

< | i
if SSPELESEESUSSEESHEEISEUESEESESSSESSEESSESSSEMSBOS SUsSaiuanE cessssssstosoe™
EXCHANGE ‘To those who have entertained hopes of
N |leaving college early to farm, a dissappoint-

{ment is in store.
GOLUMN Last term the farmer boys were permit-
rw | ted to leave college early to farm because
\their country had just declared war and was
£ lin a state of turmoil and excitement, but
IS THERE ANYTHING YOU |now that conditions have become more nor-
CAN'T DO |mal and business has settled down the fac-
If you think you're outclassed lulty has decided that it is not worth while
You ire! lto break into the college term by permitting

\a part of the student body to go home before
| examinations.

You've got to think high to rise.
You've got to be sure of yourself before
You can win a prize.
Life’s battles don't always go
To the stronger or faster man

For sooner or later the man who wins
Is the fellow who thinks “HE CAN”.

—Exchange.

T).

The friends of Dr. J. M. McConnell will
| he glad to hear that another honor has been
conferred on him. He has been appointed
by Gov. T. W. Bickett as a delegate to the .
27th annual meeting of the American Aca-

—-— |demy of Political and Social sciences. The
BACKWARD, TURN BACKWARD conference meets in Philadelphia, April 26,
| Backward, turn backward, Oh Time in thy | 27, 1918.

flight, |
|And give us the girl with ankles in sight!
,The girl with the common-sense dresses |

knee-high— At the last meeting of the Y. M. C. A.

(That are lots nicer looking, and cheaper |Maj. McConnell, a former member of the
to buy!) Davidson College faculty and now a mem-
|ber of the hospital corps at Camp Jackson,

Not the girl of to-day, with her long flapping | Save a very interesting address to the Y. M.
gown, 'C. A. on the Y. M. C. A. work in the army
That looks like she’d torn the hall-curtain|camps. He showed how the Y. M. C. A.

DD.

MAJOR McCONNELL SPEAKS ON
ARMY Y. M. C: A.

down,

And wrapped it around her and hurriedly
fled,

| With her Venus-(?)-like figure to turn the
hoy’s head.

Yes, backward, turn backward, and give us
the miss
Who hasn't quite

dredth kiss ;
And if she did kiss—just one or two slips,
She at least didn’t transfer her red rosy
lips!

reached her nine-hun-

And when out walking with Jimmy, passing
numerous bands,
At least out in public could refrain swinging

chance left to them for covering themselves with glory, and it is reasonably certain |on the diamond. ‘The game scheduled with , hands!

that they will advantageously use this opportunity. Certainly they will if they employ | Furman here was cancelled on account of a |
the same tactics which made Junior Speaking last year such a successful event. ;wet field, so nothing can be derived from |

Commencement has never meant more to the three lower classes of Davidson than an that source. Clemson beat [T'urman three
early opportunity to go home, and due to the lack of interest shown by these classes, it | times, and by a good margin each time, but
has not even meant as much as it should to the Seniors.

Excepting no occasion during the college year, Commencement should be the biggest of her other South Carolina games. She
affair on the year’s calendar. ‘The class of ’23 set a precedent for future Junior classes; |lost to Trinity by the close score of 2-0
~will she do as much for future Senior Classes? ‘in a hard fought contest, and as Trinity is
|doped to have one of the strongest teams in|
|the state this year, look out Wildcats when

you meet the Purple Hurricane.
D.

T).

FALL IN

The leaders of campus activity for the next colloge year have been chosen, and |
they are beginning to set things in motion to make the ensuing year one of history.| Several Americans and an Englishman
During the next five weeks plans will be worked: out and policies will be moulded for | were touring in England and the Americans |
the new year’s work. These men, chosen by you for the place they can most ably fill,| were very much amused at a roadside sign |
are instruments in your hands, They are not chosen as monarchs of the student body, | reading: Three miles to Londan, if you can't |
but as. representatives of every man who calls Davidson his alma mater. It is the part/read ask the blacksmith.” When nearing
of every man on the Hill, then, to fall in line with the newly elected officers. The London the Englishman burst out laughing
work is just begun. Will you pledge yourself to back up the line, or will you stand | saying that he had just caught the joke.
idly by. and watch the game drag? | When asked what it was he replied, “Sup-
| pose the blacksmith wasn’t at home.’—Mug-

} pee

jon the other hand Furman has won most.

'Turn back, Father Tempus, turn back we

entreat,
From these long, floppy dresses, that tangle
the feet.
—Crimson-W hite.

Captain—What are you scratching your
head for, Rufus?

Colored Private—Aw, sah, I got arith-
metic bugs.

Captain—What are arithmetic bugs?

Private—Dey’s cooties.

Captain—Why do you call them arithmetic
bugs?

Private—’Cause dey add to misery, dey
subtract from mah pleasure, and divide mah
interest—E-xr.

MYSELF
Edgar A, Guest

The Anti-smoke League of Pittsburgh could find an extensive field for their endeavor
at Davidson during the Saturday night movie shows. \ |

|
|

of the thoughts on construction brought out: |
Rube Curdts ask that his room be padded |
and that the doors be fitted with felt door- |
knobs; Jew Fleming demands that shelves |
and counters shall be part of his new equip

RUBE CURDTS DEMANDS
PADDED CELL IN WATTS

Watts, one of the main buildings on Dor-
mitory Street, has recently been removed
to a new location immediately to the rear of
West. It is now number three Temporary
Alley. This marvelous feat has been ac-
complished by the Stiles Destruction com-
pany which‘ was ably assisted by the Linda-
mood-McComb wrecking concern.

A new Watts is to be erected on Dor-
mitory row and it is claimed that it will
far surpass old Watts in every way possible,
even in water throwing. It is to be at least
a ten-story building with elevators and all
other modern contrivances. Each suite of
three rooms is to have aprivate bath—At

stall; Speedy Carr wants his made into
conservatory; Stout Montgomery and Ar- |
buthnot are going to hang out together andj
they request that their room be made twice
the usual size; Johnny Simpson stated that
he would consider rooming there provided
the College would paper his walls with Coles
Phillips’ art; Scott and Finn want theirs to
be made sound proof (so does everybody |

ous other requests and suggestions but these|

are the outstanding ones. :

men; Montague Clark wants a cellar in his | ii

tlse for that matter). There were numer- | i!

And so the rush for rooms goes on while | ii

wumep.

R. C. Deal, 1900, is Superintendent of
Schools at Elizabethtown, N. C., in Bladen
County.

SUSEEREREEEESHEHIER ERE

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, APRIL 19th
7:15 P. M.—Eu. Society.
7:30 P. M.—Phi. Society.
FRIDAY, APRIL 20TH
3:30 P. M.—Dual Meet, Clemson vs. i
Davidson, Tennis ‘Tournament.
10:00 P. M.—Reporter’s Club.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21ST
3:30 P. M.—Elon vs. Davidson,
Baseball.
7:30 P. M.—“The Christian.”
SUNDAY, APRIL 22ND
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.

least that is what almost everyone thinks,
judging from the rush which is being made
on Mr. Jackson’s sanctum to obtain rooms

Mr. Jackson sits in his office and hears the | #

11:00 A. M. Church Services.
woeful tales of would-be Wattites. Here's | e uniahae

1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor
Class.

I have to live by myself and so
| T want to be fit for myself to know.
I want to be able, as days go by,

| Always to look myself straight in the eye;

| don’t want to stand, with the setting sun,
| And hate myself for things I’ve done.
{I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf

#| A lot of secrets about myself,
| And fool myself, as I come and go,

Into thinking that nobody else will know
The kind of a man I really am;

iI don’t want to dress up myself in sham.

| want to go wit hmy head erect,

| T want to deserve all men’s respect;

But here in the struggle for fame and self
I want to be able to like myself.

|T don’t want to look at myself and know

| That I'm bluster and bluff and empty show. |

can never hide myself from me;
|I see what others may never see;

| Uqep0ohdTB J 02cft7ESE7SE7SE7HT8A
I know what others may never know,
| I never can fool myself, and so,

Whatever happens, I want to be
Self-respecting and conscience-free.

|has grown from the ugly, ill-equipped build-
| ings to the splendid well-equipped buildings
now found in each cantonment. He declared
lthat the Y. M. C. A. and Red Cross now
‘approach 100% efficiency, and that no money
‘given them is wasted. He described the
Y. M. C. A. men and paid a high tribute to
the Christianity and to their ;helpfulness
and efficiency.
D.
JUNIOR SENIOR DEBATE

The intersociety debate between the Jun-
ior-Senior teams of the two literary soci-—
‘eties will be held on Monday night, April
29.

The subject for debate is: Resolved that
Congress shall enact legislation for the com-
|pulsory arbitration of all disputes between
| organized labor and corportaions, constitu-
\tionality waived.” The Phi team composed
lof Neel, cClure and Currie will uphold the
affirmative, while the negative will be de-
| fended by Orgain, Thomas and Potts of the
Eu society. The intersociety debating cup
which has been won for two years by the
Phi society will be the award of the winner
so a hotly contested debate is expected.

SUREEEEREEEESEESEREESEUEEEE HERE

The Reel Stuff

HHS
) attraction for this
week is The Christian, adapted from the
famous novel and play by Sir Hall Caine,
with Richard Dix, Mae Busch, Gareth
Hughes, ,Phyllis Haver,; Mahlon Hamilton.
It is diréctod by Maurice Tourneur. The
Christian is considered one of the really
big productions of the year.
The author gave his assistance to the di-
rector in securing the proper atmosphere
and in getting the consent of the London
lauthorities to photograph the mob scene in
| Trafalgar Square—the first time such a per-
‘mission has been granted. The story of
the Christian is well known to readers and
_frequenters of the theatre. It concerns the
‘efforts of John Storm, a Christian socialist
to live as Christ would live, and his strug-
{gle to free himself from his love for Glory
' Quayle.

| On April 28th Robin Hood will be shown
jat.Davidson. It is an Allan Dwan produc-
tion featuring Douglas Fairbanks, The pic-
ture follows closely the old popular ballads
of Robin Hood. Among the characters are
Robin Hood, Friar Tuck, Little John and
\the Sheriff of Nottingham. There are tour-
nament scenes and the seige of a castle.
Robin Hood is said by the foremost critics
to be the greatest production, of the year
jas well as one of the three greatest pictures
jever produced.

+ there.

Every day in every way the crowds get
bigger and bigger and Mr. Jackson has
threatened to call out Captain George’s gal-
lant warriors to aid him in holding back
the crowds. Everybody seems to have the
game idea at the same time for they all

” afrive at the same time in trying to get there

interest of all for if she be constructed | i
according to the desires of the future in-
habitants she will look like either a cork-
screw or a made-to-order house put together
by Heck McRainey.

it
:
to new Watts, may she be built for the best |

3:30 P. M.—Sunday School.
6:15 P. M—“Y” Service.
MONDAY, APRIL 23RD...
3:30 P. M.—Elon vs. Davidson, Base-
ball.
TUESAY, APRIL 24TH
7:30 P. M.—Pandeinic Society.

# 8:00 P. M.—Metrophilian Society.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25TH
Wofford vs. Davidson at Spartanburg,

S. C. |
9:00 P. M.—Bible Classes.

D—

The Davidsonian is a great invention
The school gets all the fame-

The printers get all the money
The editors get all the blame.

No matter how healthy a bow-legged girl
jenay-be:she's ‘always in poor. shape.

|

°

—Setected.

The first fellow boasts of a B. S, degree. |
The next one steps forth with a hard-earned |
M. E. ; | Guests of Queens Coll
Another one calmly displays LL.D., | - (Continued ae Page 1) re
While all I could: offer was R. O. T. C.| much good. The scope of the association's

, —Hullabaloo. | work has increased year by year. A cursory

——. | glance at the publications of the various col-

RECEIPE FOR A TOMBSTONE leges of the state indicates the marked im-

Take one reckless, natural born fool. Two| provement in subject matter and form of

or three drinks of bad liquor. Soak fool composition during the past few years.

well in liquor, place in the car and let him| Under the influence of this association all

go. After due time remove the wreckage, | the college newspapers are gaining a supre--

place in satin box, and garnish with flowers. | macy in their line that is not by
am) any similar publication in the country.

Collegiate Writers Meet As
