THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

“RELIGIOUS NEWS

VOLUNTEERS REPORT
ON STATE CONFERENCE

The Volunteers with M. R. ‘Calhoun as
leader, conducted the Union meeting of the
Volunteer and Ministerial bands last Sun-
day. The reports from the State Volunteer
Conference at Raleigh were delivered.

W. T. Baker discussed the opening
address delivered by Rev. Wade C. Smith,
“Living Unto Him’, We should sacrifice
everything, he said, to do what God most
wants us to do, and that is to tell people of
Christ. Half of the people of the world do

We will notetaoinetaointaoinnnaoinnnnu
not know the message of John 3:16. We
will not be successful in winning souls if
we go about it in a half-hearted way. Every
investment that we make in this work brings
in big returns in joy, now as well as here-
after. We must be willing to wear scars
and be proud of them if we are to be good
soldiers.”

D. B. Wharton gave the gist of the
address of Mrs. J.T. Anderson, a Meredith
graduate who is now a missionary to China.
Mrs. Anderson was a member of the Wake
County Volunteer Union and later of the
North Carolina State Union at the time of
its organization. She attended the World
Christian Student Conference in China last
year. In short, Mrs. Anderson said, “Christ
has a message which will affect all of our
relations. His Gospel is not one-sided.”

D. B. Walthall told what the Conference
meant to a non-volunteer. ‘The atmosphere
of the meetings, he said, “was decidedly spir-
itual.”. He emphasized the need of backing
for the missionaries. There is too much of
the idea that the Volunteers need not be
thought of any more after they are sent
out,

Perrin Hudgins gave the theme of the
conference, “Let Christ live. through you.”
If we are out to receive His power, we must
be tuned propcrly, and if we do not receive
the power, that is no proof that it is not
there. Bible reading, prayer, and faith are
the things that enable us to receive the
power.

G. E. Weeks commented on the good
spirit shown by N. C. State College and the
interest which the students there took in
the conference.

-INTERESTING SERMON
DELIVERED BY PASTOR

Drawing his thoughts from Isaiah: 40:31
last Sunday ‘morning Doctor Richards
preached an interesting sermon on the ne-
cessity of waiting on the Lord and in this
way having our strength renewed.

There are two ways to “wait on the
Lord”: one like Martin Luther, who said
that he had so much to do that he could
not afford to spend less than five hours a
day in prayer; or like John Wesley, who,
accomplishment is not learned in a day. His
was constantly praying—thanking God for
His mercies and praying for strength and
wisdom, etc. “The ideal method of ‘wait-
ing on the Lord’ is a combination of both.”

We obtain spiritual strength by “waiting
on the Lord” and we “mount up with wings
as eagles.” This results in living on the
mountain-tops, so to speak, spiritually, when
our spirits seem to be in the very presence
of God. Then “they shall run and not be
weary’—this is when misfortunes, trials,
and temptations come thick and much spir-

itual strength is required. If one has been
in the habit of waiting on the Lord, he shall

“run and not be weary.”

The verse used as a text is built up anti-
climactically. The hardest thing to do is ‘to,
“walk and not faint”. It is easier to rise to,
spiritual heights in times of crises, but the.|
hard things to stand are the little every day |
trials ‘Therefore the secret of success is |
to ‘wait on the Lord’ and ‘let your strength |
be renewed’ ”.

D.

DOCTOR FRASER NEXT |
“Y” VESPER SPEAKER

The Juniors, among their other plans for
Junior week, will have a special vesper
service Easter Sunday. The speaker, well-
known to most of the students, will be Dr.
William H. Frazer, president of Queens

College, while a quartet from either Queens
or Davidson will render special music.
Like last year’s Junior Speaking Y. M. C.
A. service, this one will be held out of doors.
A special orchestra will render different
selections. oa

It was with difficulty that Doctor Frazer
was secured as the speaker for this service
due to his many previous engagements. He |
is well-known to most Davidson students,
and is sure to impart a helpful message.

D.

VOLUNTEER SECRETARY |
ADDRESSES STUDENTS

Lyman Hoover, Traveling Secretary for
the Student Volunteer movement, visited
Davidson Sunday and Monday, March 18
and 19, and addressed the student body in!
chapel Monday. He first gave a brief sum-+
mary of the needs of foreign countries in
their heathendom for the Christian religion.
He spoke of the work of all churches in|
sending missionaries to these backward races |
and of the Volunteer Movement’s connection
with all the missionary endeavors of all |
bodies of protestant Christians. The Move- |
ment is mainly to band together all students |
who are planning for foreign service of aj|
religious nature. It seeks to give to thesc |
students a wider view of the whole field and |
to reach out and get interested in the work |
those who feel called to such work, and also |
those who wish to help in the work as they |
remain at home. |

The gripping part of the speaker's talk/|
came when in a simple, sincere he}
announced the purpose of himself and five |
others to go to an hitherto untouched region |
in far-away central China if God permits.

expert, a physician and nurse, an educator, |
an agriculturist, and two evangelists. They |
will not seek to force the western civiliza- |
tion upon the natives but will develop lead- |
ership among them so the work will be able
to continue when they push on further to
other untouched parts. They expect first
to go to Cairo, Egypt, to study the language
and to get a foundation upon which to build
a successful mission, It will be some’ years
yet before the mission will be started as
most of the group have further university
work to complete. Mr.-Hoover graduated
at Butler College, Indiana, and has been one
year to Yale Divinity School. Next fall he
will return to Yale for the remaining two
years of his course in the Divinity School.

MOORESVILLE CHILDREN
GIVEN PSYCHOLOGY TEST

The men in the Psychology 2 class,
accompanied by Doctor Hood, journeyed to
Mooresville on last. Wednesday morning in
order to yive and make some tests upon
the school children of that town

Those making the trip were, or were
supposed to have been, excused from their
mid-morning classes in order to be-able to
return in time for dinner. Automobiles were
the means of transportation, arranged for
Mr. “Chink” Woods, a prominent member
of the class,

According to reports the trip was entire-
ly successful and an enjoyable and profit-
able time was had by all.

D.

1.

~ Dr. Sentelle (in Bible)—What is the ca-
‘non? ‘
© Fresh—Canon? er, a cannon is a hole with
fase poured all around it.

Horse Shoe Tournament
To Be Big Attraction

At last all plans have been completed and
no event of importance will arise to eclipse
the long looked for horse shoe tournament
between By Jove Rogers and P. C. Hen-
derson. The time for the tournament has
been set for the Friday afternoon of Junior
Speaking week and will be a fitting climax
to one of the biggest days of the occasion.

The games will be divided into three sets,
each set being a best three out of five games.

P. C. has at last perfected his sfyle. He
guarantees a ringer at least every other
pitch. Many are placing their money and
tobacco tags on him.

By Jove, swears he can dnace a jig and
beat P. C. at the same time. He was beaten
the other day in a practice match, but in an
interview, gave out the information that he
has changed his style and promises to give
P. C. a hot time for the coveted title.

be able to put out these extra exertions and |

The Committee desires that the Dean or
other college executive in turn file all the
FOR SUCCESSFUL MEN applications received by him at the same
a time, together with a statement naming the
A larger attendance than usual was pre- | t2y9 men applying who in his opinion or the
| sent at the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday even- | opinion of the Faculty are the best qualified
ing to hear Mr. David Ovens, an outstand-! to receive the reward.
ing business and layman of Charlotte, who | “Applications must be filed with the Com-
based his talk for the evening on the state- | mittee by April 15, 1923, and should be
ment, Failure is a Crime Where There is @| addressed to Dr. Frank B. Jewett, Chair-
Capacity for Success. l'man, Charles A. Coffin Fellowship and Re-
Wallace Moore, of the Y. M. C. A. Cab- | search Committee, care of American Insti
inet, presided, and read the Scripture text! tute of Electrical Engineers, 33West 39th
for the evening, which was found in 1 Cor. | Street, New York, N. Y. The period
13, sie also -introduced the speaker as 4) allowed for filing applications has been ne-
business man, a successful man, but above! cessarily brief as the Foundation has been
all, an outstanding Christian. |only recently established. Modification in
Bascomb Sorrells had charge of the sing-| procedure may be made for future awards.
ing for the evening, and Purdy and White | “Those awarded fellowships will be no-
were at their acciistomed places. | tified of the fact by June Ist.”

Me; “Ovens said) “ih part); “Failite As @ The Fellowship and Research Committee

MR. DAVID OVENS CALLS

crime where there is the capcity for success. |

“Come, sir,” said: the teacher to the bey
at the foot o  fceht,lassshrdlushrdfucmfw
at the foot of the class, “how do ‘wow. pro-
nounce ‘s-t-i-n-g-y?’ ”

The boy at the foot answered thought-
fully, “It depends on whether the word is
applied to a human being or a bee.”—Kind
Words.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Today there are so many chances for being
worth while, that the one who neglects his
chance is committing a crime. God has

besides Dr. Jewett consists of Dr. John C.
| Merriam, representing National Academy of
| Sciences and Dr. Charles F. Scott, repre-
|senting Society for Promotion of Engin-

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies

jot power.

' from books will be of no use to you until

{cern is a big power for good.

|them better and more successful than ever

In the number there will be a language |*

given each his particular talents and there
is a place in the world for everyone's talent.
It is criminal to neglect your abilities, to
neglect your chance for making a success
and making your life worth while. 3
“The boy in college who doesn’t work,
doesn’t~ study, and who doesn’t apply his
talents, is not trying to make a success in
college. What will he do in life?
“Knowledge”, continued Mr. Ovens,

eering Education.

LOST

Watts fire, one brown cowhide handbag
containing books, letters (addressed to C. F.
Doughton), sweater, etc. Reward for re-
turn. C. F, Doughton, 204 East.

“is
Some of.the outstanding men in
brain capacity have been unsuccessful in life.
Knowledge is not power, but applied know-
ledge is power. The knowledge you gain

you put it into practice. Knowledge must
be made of use to the world to be powerful. .

“To make a success you must put all that
you have into your work, whatever it may
be.” Here the speaker illustrated his state-
ment by the story of the world’s most fam-
ous violinist, who, when she played, put her
self, her very soul, into the playing.

“God demands that you put the best that
you have into use. He calls for your en-
thusiasm. A really successful, growing con-
Perhaps such
a concern will soon be put into your hands.
With your advantages you ought to make

before. |

“To make a true success there is a pro- |
gram you must follow. Men have written
books on how to succeed in business, but
the only true way to success is found in the!
Bible. There is no other program for suc-
cess than that in God’s Word. |

“Self-sacrifice—putting all that you have |
in service of God and man, is the greatest
service a man can render. God calls for |
your best. Give Him the’ best that you
have.”

D.

CHARLES A. COFFIN |
FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED.

The Charles A. Coffin Foundation, estab- |
lished by the General Electric Company, |
which will award fellowships to college

EASTER
and othe roccasions

When Confections
Less Exquisite
Might Be A

Social Risk

Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Exclusive Agency

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
IN DAVIDSON

graduates for research work, has sent ap-
plication blanks to all colleges of the coun- |

a
try, which must be filled out and returned |

by April 15th.
Accompanying the blanks is the first an-
nouncement of the details of the awards as|
follows—
“The terms of the Charles A. Coffin Foun- |
dation, established by the General Electric |
Company, make provision for the award of
five thousand dollars annually for fellow- |
ships to graduates of the universities, col-|
leges and technical schools of the United |
States who have shown, by the character |
of their work, that they could, with advan- |
tage, undertake or continue research work |
in educational institutions either in this;
country or abroad. |
“The fields in which these fellowships are |
to be awarded are Electricity, Physics and
Physical Chemistry.
“The Committee desires

leston, S. C.

|
to make the!
awards to men who, without financial assist- |
ance, would be unable to devote themselves |
to research work. The fellowships will |
carry a minimum allowance of five hundred |
dollars. This allowance may be increased to
meet the special needs of applicants.to whom
the Committee desires to award the Fellow- |
ships.

“Candidates for the Charles A. Coffin Fel-
lowships should file applications on forms
provided for that purpose, and obtainable |
from the Chairman. Applications will be!
welcomed from seniors as well as gradu-
ates of universities, colleges and technical
schools, but any award to a senior will. be
conditioned upon his graduation. :

“The Committee requests that all applica-
tions first be sent to the Dean of the edu-
cational institution at which the applicant is,

Atlanta, Ga.
Thursday,

Jacksonville, Fla.

Church, New Orleans, La.

Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor
Jackson, Miss.

ville, Tenn.

Mobile, Ala. ‘The House

or has been, in attendance within the year.

Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian

f Monday, April 16th .

“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”
Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor F irst Presbyterian Church,

Wednesday,
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden Pastor Hart

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHIBON, Executive Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presby-
terian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p. m., begin-
ing Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednes-
dey, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are
invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be
highly appreciated‘and enjoyed. They are made possible
through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Char-

SMYTH LECTURES
Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“Sermonic Sources”

April 12th :

“Passion in Preaching”

“The Man and His Message”
First Presbyterian Church,

on:
Pe Ch

i urch,
Which the Minister Lives”
