THE

DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

Pi Delta Epsilon’s contest of 1921-22 was
won by William W. K. Freeman, of Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology. Second
prize was won by Shelby H. Atchley, of the

DEPUTATION PROGRAM
IS BEING ARRANGED

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. is entertaining
an ambitious deputation program for this
spring. Twenty-five or thirty deputations
have already been planned, and it is likely
that a few more will be added to the list
before the eleventh hour.

These deputations are composed of from
three to five men, and their special purpose
is to get in close touch with the boys of
high school age in the towns they are to
visit. In their meetings with the boys they
will not adopt any cut and dried program,
but, wil’ confine themselves to three general
topics, viz.: High school problems,; voca-
tional guidance and college problems, with
special emphasis on the Christian teaching
applicable to them.

Some of the deputations which have been
definitely planned for the coming month are:
First, to the Community Y. M. C. A. in
Concord, under the direction of J. C. Mc-
Caskill. ‘The members of the deputation
will be Leonard Dick, chairman, Wallace
Moore, Ted Jones and Bob Davidson.
Enough men will also go along with Ted
Jones to make a quartet, and George Mc-
Clain will go over for one talk on social
hygiene. Second, to Salem College, under
the auspices of the Y. W. C. A. at Winston-
Salem. .Wallace Moore, chairman, and Le-
roy Burney will have the unique privilege
of going on the only deputation to a wo-
man’s college. Third, to the High School in
Gastonia, under the direction of Tom Lowry,
March 3. Dunbar Ogden, chairman, Harry
Russell, and Leonard Dick, will compose the
members of this deputation, and Dunbar
Ogden will also fill the pulpit of the First
Presbyterian Church. Fourth, to the High
School in Lenoir, N. C., under the auspices
of J. E. Cassell, March 3. Bill Baker, the
chairman of the deputation will be accom-
panied by Bob Davidson and Pat Kimzey.
Fifth, to the Y. M. C. A. in Salisbury,
under the direction of Mr, Edwin M. Hoff-
man,

The members of this deputation will be
Hugh Smith, chairman, Pat Crawford, Bas-
comb Sorrells, and Buck Currie.

1D.

Y. M. C. A.. ARRANGING
INTERESTING PROGRAMS

Buck Currie is planning to have an inter-
esting and varied program in the future Y.
M. C. A. services this spring.

Between March 14 and 18, a series of life
service talks will be given by Dr. Melton
Clarke, a professor at Columbia Seminary.
These services will be held every evening,
and students will have opportunity to inter-
view him personally about any problems
they might have.

Easter Sunday will bring Doctor Fraser
of Queens College, to speak at the “Y” meet-
ing. There will be a girls’ quartette with
him from Queens,

Doctor Ronthaler, president of Salem Col-
lege, has agreed to be here Mother’s Day.

The second Sunday in April, the Y. M.
C.. A. will put on what they call visitors’
night. Every church within the radius of
20 miles will be invited to come that night
and see a part of the thing in action that
creates the atmosphere for which Davidson
is well known. Davidson is proud of her
“Y” services and she wants to show others
what they are.

Finally, Dr. D. N. McLaughlin, of Nor-
folk, Va., will be here to speak to the “Y”
at the last service during commencement.

Some of the engagements for “Y” speakers
have not yet been filled, but interesting and
capable speakers will be secured for them.

TD.

WHARTON AND PRICE.

COMPOSE DEPUTATION

A deputation composed of D. B, Wharton
and H. B. Price, was sent by the Volunteer

RG ferret cs 647

VOLUNTEERS DISCUSS

NEED OF FRIENSHIPS

W. R. Kretschmar was the leader of the
Volunteer Band meeting for this week.
After the devotional exercises, which con-
sisted of Scripture reading by the leader,
and ‘prayer, led by Angus McBryde, M. P.
Calhoun discussed the necessity of having
friends. The environment here at Davidson
is ideal for the formation of friendships.
Here one is associated with boys whom he
should count as friends, but when one gets
out on the foreign field he will not have such
good opportunities. Many of us do not now
realize the value of friends, but they are ab-
solutely indispensable to success, both while
one is in college and in later life.

A letter from Rev. Plumer Smith, a Da-
vidson man who is now a missionary in
Africa, was read. He told of’ his work
there, and sent out the call for more medical
missionaries for that field. At present he
is about one hundred and twenty miles from
a medical missionary, which makes the need
for more men urgent.

D.

LOCAL “Y” SECRETARY
TO CONDUCT VESPERS

The Davidson student body will hear one
of the best speakers engaged by the “Y”
this year, at the vesper service next Sunday,
Buck Currie, general secretary, will talk on
The Rainbow.

Buck graduated with the class of ’21.
While in college he won a “D” and three
stars as one of the best pitchers the baseball
team ever had. In his semor year, he was
president of the student body, and he filled
that office well ata most difficult time. Last
year he was principal of the Davidson high
school, a position many distinguished grad-
uates of the college have held.

Because he has been out of college only
one year, because he knows all of the stu-
dents personally, because he has made a
special study of the problems and tempta-
tions of students, Buck’s talk will be the
most intimate heart-to-heart .message the
students will have an opportunity to hear.
All who have heard his addresses at the
“Y” meetings, as well as those who have
talked with him’ personally, can understand
why it is urgent that every one be present
at the service next Sunday.

D.

DOCTOR FLEAGLE TALKS
TO MINISTERIAL BAND

The Ministerial Band was favored with
an interesting talk by Doctor Fleagle, on
Paul—his description and why he entered

‘|the ministry. There were two questions

brought before the members of the band.
First, what is there in the Christian religion
for the average everyday man? “For the
ordinary individual,” the speaker said, “noth-
ing equals the advantages that are offered in
Christianity. The average ‘individual finds
an explanation of where he came from and
where he is going. It offers a hope for
something better in the life to come, and
teaches of a higher being that has rule over
everything, giving a certain satisfaction that
He is the only one who can subdue the forces
of sin. Christianity is a common sense re-
ligion and must be used in every day life.

“As Paul was described in a letter written
by a man who had seen him, he was short,
bald-headed, had a large nose, and some-
times he looked like a man, while at other
times he looked like an angel. He was not
a strong, robust man, but well educated. He
was a native born Roman citizen, his parents
were wealthy, and he was trained at. Tarsus,
which town was noted for its wonderful
system of education at that time. Paul knew
Greek, Latin and Hebrew. Being a man of
culture, learning and high social standing,
he went into a great work that has but little
reward in this world.”

The second point was: “What is it that
draws men into the ministry?” A few men
enter the ministry just to have something to
do,-and- those who enter the ministry with
this in view never accomplish any great work
for the Master. “Some,” the speaker said,
“go into the ministry for an emotional effect ;
they are the ones who succeed only as evan-
gelists. Yet other go into the ministry from
a selfish standpoint, ‘and: feel that they are
only | preparing themselves for the life to
come. The. ones:.who. succeed “go in the
ministry with a sincere desire to be of service
to others and'to bring the message of Christ
.| to. those -who have not heard it.” s

PRELATMM.

University of Idaho; Ralph K. Chase, of

Union College and William J. Woods, of
MANY STUDENTS TEACH Hamilton College tied for third place.

IN SUNDAY SCHOOLS Pi Delta Epsilon’s medals, in gold, silver
‘ __|and bronze, are circular in shape, display the
For'a good many years the work done in’ antique ink-well, crossed quills and symbols
neighboring Sunday schools has formed one of the fraternity. The reverse side is en-
of the chief phases of the great work of the prayed with the winner’s name, date and de-
Y. M. C. A. This work, having had its | scription of the contest. Thus far, only four
beginning almost with the founding of the | medals are in existence.
college, has grown with it and to some ex- | Nn
tent has kept pace with the other agencies |
at Davidson for Christian leadership. Each |
year interest in Sunday school work has been
shown by the number of students who have |
taken part. For the most part this work |
has been done in the Sunday schools within
a radius of four miles of the college, how-
ever, in some cases it has extended an even

BAPTISTS BITE DUST
(Continued from Page 1)

To Pat Crawford go the honors of the
evening in every way. In the first period he
shot five goals from the floor and added one
| more in the last period, while numerous other

: heartbrakers refused to stay in the basket.
Chaneke iran His 12 points was the deciding factor in the

The number of those who are engaged contest.

regularly either in teaching, singing or fur-
leaks FP aley | ‘T, F. Staley was all over the floor at once
nishing music in these Sunday school ex- brealdne lay passed, ationtig goals, and fol’

ceeds 35. However there are others, who ‘ a
eer : if lowing the ball with uncanny ability. A col-
being interested in the work, attend regularly tision with Greason'put him out of the A

and fill vacancies made possible by another’s early in the second period and Mac Beall

tha SOUMUMIy IRE tees oe? be Sait filled his shoes well for the remainder of the
also carried on by some of the students in contest caging two field goals.
Captain Warhoss played a great game at

young peoples activities, including both the : ;
. ee center, and during his absence from the con-
Epworth League and the Christian Endeavor. test the Baptists staged a rally which le

One can see readily that this work has a two- tl Rake Gt sonnanlon Gants Fee
fold nature. It not only helps the student poe Fee OUT Orece
and trains him for better Christian leader- | ‘4"": ;

Boggs and Laird played a great game.

ship, but it also improves the Sunday schools
and young peoples societies, making them Nappy who took the place of George and
more interesting, active, and efficient. Sook showed up well at both positions.
Of the Sunday schools near Davidson, For the Baptists, Stringfield and Greason
there are more than 300 scholars taught by Cre the outstanding stars, the former cag-
ing seven of his teams points.

35 college men. These figures, though small, ss
represent what is being done in this depart- DAVIDSON (27) WAKE FOREST (17)

ment of activity, and they also show the Staley (4)......... R. F..... Stringfield (7)
interest that is being taken in the work, In Laird (6).....4.. L. Fieeeseees Greason (4)
addition to this it shows that other helpers Mauze (1).......... Corseceeee Carlyle (2)
are needed. This is a constant need, for Crawford (12)...+. R. Giese eens Lake (0)
there is always a place for college men in Boggs (0)......... Wi Ger aur Pagano (2)

Substitutions—Davidson: Beeall (4) for
Staley; Davis for Mauze; Mauze for Davis;
D Davis for Boggs. Wake Forest: Medlin

for Stringfield; Hawkins’ for Greason;

LOCAL PASTOR UGERS Brewton (2) for Carlyle; Johnston for

Lake.
CONFESSION OF FAITH "Foul Goals: Stringfield, 5 out of 9; Mauze,

Belief without confession was the theme 1 out of 3; Laird, 4 out of 6.

of Doctor Richard’s sermon at the Sunday| Referee: Faul.

night church service. He based his remarks Scorer: Mauze.

on a part of the twelfth chapter of John, | N. C. STATE GAME

where many of the chief rulers believed in} Opening up their four-game tour of the
Christ, but for fear of the Pharasees they | State the Wildcats met the State quint in
did not confess him. Many of us, the Raleigh on Wednesday night and were nosed
speaker said, are sincere and carnest believers! out in a well guarded contest 26-22. Foul
in Christ, yet are so retiring and modest or | shots proved the margin of victory for the
for fear of our fellowman, or that we are | Techmen as the field goals were even.

not sure that our belief will continue, do not | The Fighting Devils scored first when
make a public confession of our faith in him. | George tossed one in from the foul line, but
“No believer,”’said Doctor Richards, “will| the Wolfpack forged ahead and were leading
be satisfied until.he makes a public confession | at the intermission 11-7. The guarding was
of his faith in Christ. He will be so much | close in this period and the game was fairly
happier, will get much more joy and satis-| slow.

faction out of life if he lets the world know

the neighboring Sunday schools.

The Techmen swept the Wildcats off their
fee at the opening of the second stanza and
after eleven minutes were leading 18-9, At
this point the Wildcats came back with a
rush and turned the contest from a runaway
into a real scrap. The rally fell short four
points and the State quint won 26-22.

For the Wildcats, Staley played a great
game at forward, caging four field goals and
tearing up the opposition in general. The
Wildcat passing was poor but the Techmen
were given a run for their money. It was
the poorest exhibition of the trip on the part
of the Wildcats. é

Pat and George worked well together, as
usual.

At the start of the contest the Wildcats
were at sea on the court but in the final min-
utes gave a great exhibition of basket-ball,
but it came too late.

For the Engineers Leeper and Johnson
starred, accounting for 20 of their team’s
points. The red-headed guard with 14 points,
led the scoring and in all-round play was the
star of the evening.

Johnson’s six foul shots proved the de-
ciding factor of the fray. Line-up and sum-

mary:
DAVIDSON (22) N. C. STATE (26)

Staley (8).......- Ny Go00G00 +eeeDuls
Laird (2).......+.. ) bi Pygunuonod Curtis (4)
Mauze (8)......... C.......++-Leeper (6)
Crawford (4)..... R. G.......Johnson (14)
Boggs (0)....... .L. G.......Jeannette (0)

Substitutions — Davidson: Davis .for

Boggs; Beall for Laird; Elkins for Beall.
State: Wray (2) for Duls.

Foul Goals: Mauze, 2 out of 9; John-
son, 6 out of 15.

Referee: Knight (Durham “Y”).

FIRST WAKE FOREST GAME
From Raleigh the Fighting Devils jour-
(Continued on Page 8)

Leadership —

CHERO-COLA
GRAPE-MELO
ORANGE-MELO

ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

he is an earnest believer in Christ. He will
miss a glorious opportunity of service and
of witnessing for Christ if he fails to con-

fess Him.” .

D— eae H

EDITORIAL CONTEST IS_ |
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS .

Rules governing Pi Delta Epsilon’s annual
intercollegiate editorial contest have been ap-
proved by the fraternity’s grand council. The
unusual interest aroused by ‘the subject,
“Physical Development as a Requisite for the
College Degree,” has resulted in a deluge of
questions at the national headquarters.

For the information of every instructor in
English or rhetoric and the student body in
general, the contest rules are printed here-
with,

1, Contest will open January 29, 1923,
and will close February 28, 1923, at midnight.

2. Editorials submitted may not exceed

leston, S. C.

Atlanta, Ga

Jacksonville, Fla.

4. Write an assumed name in the upper
left hand corner of each sheet.

5. On the face of an envelope write this
assumed name, enclosing a sheet of paper on
which is written your own name, age, home
city, class and local college address and tele-
phone number. ris

6. Seal the envelope carefully dnd pin or
clip it to your editorial. _.

7. Then hand it to your instructor in
English or rhetoric or, if not

Church, New Orleans, La.

I
oe

Dr.
Jackso:

Nashville; Tenn,

Dr. Dunbar H.

highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible
ugh the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Char-

SMYTH LECTURES
Wednesday, April 11th

Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“Sermonic Sources”

Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“Passion in Preaching”
Friday, April 13th

Dr. W. McF. ‘Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian

500 words. Thursday,
3. Type or write legibly on one side of
sheet only,

Monday, April 16th
J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
Miss. . “Regulative Ideas in ing”
re Tuesday, 17th
: »Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

Open, Pastor Rt Presbyterian srian Church,

vile enn
“The House in Which the Minster Lives’

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

myth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presby-
terian Church in‘the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p. m., begin-
ing Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednes-
dey, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are
invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be

April 12th

“The Man and His Message’’

“Ses 0:

