THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

3

FOUR MEETS ON NEW
WRESTLING SCHEDULE

Wednesday, of last week, a call was_is-
sued for wrestlers. This call met with an
immediate and hearty response from those
interested in this sport. Practices have as-
sumed a definite form, and the team to rep-
resent Davidson this year is now fast be-
coming a reality instead of a mere sup-
position.

The college is indeed fortunate in securing
Harry Bangle, of Charlotte, to act in the
capacity of coach. Bangle coached the team
last year, and his efforts are worthy of com-
mendation. He was formerly a professional
wrestler, but is now a traveling salesman. He
spends his spare time engaged in this sport,
and is an ardent entt t of the grappling
game. He comes to Davidson once a week
and is enlightening new aspirants with the
technical points of wrestling, and is impart-
ing new tricks to all concerned. :

The matmen number about 25. Their in-
terest is keen and indications are that it will
be difficult to choose those men who will
occupy the seven berths that make up the
team. Five men of last year’s crew, Cro-
martie, Cochran, Kimsey, N. Patterson and
H. White, are on hand for all practices and
are ready to combat all neweemers. Whether
these men are able to keep their places on
the team is yet to be seen. Out of the wealth
of material on hand some splendid grapplers
are going to be developed, and the team this
year promises to be better than ever before.

The men who have been showing up ad-
vantageously have been classed into groups
according to their weight. Those above 175
pounds are classed as heavyweights. The
following are the weights and men under
each:

119—Selser and W. Cox.

129—Cromartie, G. McLean and Haney.

139—P. Patterson, Cochran and J.
Davis.

149—Kimsey and Hendrix,

162--N. Patterson.

172—H. White.

Heavyweights—Linderman,
Regen,

Cromartie is captain and manager of the
team. He is elated over the prospects, and
is directing his efforts toward arranging sev-
eral more matches, Negotiations with N.
C, State and V. P. I. are now pending, and
Davidson students hope that these negotia-
tions will materialize. The schedule this
year is quite a contrast to last year’s, for
Trinity was Davidson’s only opponent. ‘I'he
season’s schedule is as follows:

February 22—Carolina at Chapel Hill.

February 23—Trinity at Durham.

March 2—South Carolina at Davidson.

March 10—V. M. T. at Lexington.

It is a matter of sincere regret that three
of the four matches will be staged away
from Davidson, but should definite decisions
assuring matches with N. C. State and V.
P. I, be reached, one, or possibly both, might

he brought to the Hill.
p:

DIARY OF SCHOOL-BOUND
LAD DURING CHRISTMAS

December 20—Moved my belongings to
Rumple on the most: uncomfortable afternoon
ever witnessed by mortal man, sleet and rain
falling while a genuine north wind rushed
at one from every open space. I find that
about 20 others are staying so that it will not
be as lonesame as I feared. We are all to
eat at Mrs. Gibbs’ boarding house. Tonight
I won two and lost 14 games of checkers.

21, Thursday—Slept late. No French to-
day which made my soul exceedingly glad.
Got up in time for dinner and I am glad to

D.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY

7 p. m—Eumanean Society.
7 p. m.—Phi Society.

H,

Clark and

SATURDAY

7:15 p. m—Movies—Harold Lloyd
in “Doctor Jack.”

SUNDAY
10 a. m.—Union Band meeting.
11 a. m—Church services.
1:15 p, m—C. E. Training class.
3:30 p. m.—Sunday ‘school.~
6:15 p. m—Vesper service.
7 p. m.—Evening church service.

TUESDAY
6:45 p. m.—Metrophilian Society.
7 p. m.—Pandeinic Society.

WEDNESDAY
9 p. m—Bible classes.

PROMISING PROSPECTS
FOR 1923 TENNIS TEAM

Several racqueters have taken advantage
of the mild January weather following the
holidays to loosen up their arms and regain
their old form in tennis. Every afternoon
ardent advocates of the game are to be seen
developing serves, lawfords: and back-hands.

Tennis prospects for this year look
brighter than would be expected, after the
loss of three such consistent players as Cun-
ningham, Ormond and Wilkinson. This,
however, is largely due to the fact that Da-
vidson still has Hugh Bradley. Bradley, on
account of. a very heavy scientific course, is
unable to devote the time to practice, which
he might otherwise. But in spite of this fact.
some one will have to put forth a very high
brand of tennis to keep him from retaining
for two years his title of All-State inter-
collegiate champion. In addition to the four
men who reached the semi-finals last year,
Staley, Beall, Woods and others, show a
high grade of tennis and may be counted
upon as sharp contestants for the team this
spring.

No matches have been arranged for the
team as yet but plans are on foot for secur-
ing dual matches ‘with the leading teams of
the State. Entrance into the State tourna-
ment is also planned.

D.

FOURTH AREA CORPS
‘TO HOLD RIFLE MEET

The rifle shooting competition for the
championship of the fourth area corps will
serve as an added attraction to the R. O. T.
C. work at Davidson for the next few weeks.
Fifteen colleges that embrace R. O. ‘T. C.
training in their curriculm will compete for
the championship of this area and the win-
ning team will have faced a keen competi-
tion in the form of the select rifle shots
from these various institutions. It is being

urged at Davidson that an official college

recognition in the forni of some insignia be
awarded to the man or the two men that
make the highest average in the shooting.
The competing teams will consist of 10
men, each man being chosen for his ability
as a marksman. Each college in the fourth
area is allowed to enter as many teams as it
desires. A weekly shoot is held with the
small bore arms used in the indoor target
practice and the total score of the.team for
that week is sent in to the headquarters of
the fourth area corps. ‘hese scores are
tabulated and after six competitive shoots
dre held the team that has made the largest
aggregate score is announced the winner of
the area championship. The winner in this
competition will have a chance in the na-
tional trials which embrace the colleges from
the various corps areas of the United States.

find that homesickness has not yet dulled my
appetite. ‘Tonight I only lost three games of
checkers. My room-mate offered to teach
me chess and I_beat him the third game.

22—Woke in time for breakfast. Went to
Charlotte for the day. Found that 1 had
been invited out for dinner, but returned too
late to receive the invitation.

23—My room-mate received a box fsom
home today and I received two. Our souls
are delighting themselves in fatness. We had
movies tonight. The picture was Bebe
Daniels in “Singed Wings.” Bebe was good,
as usual.

Sunday, 24—Sletp well.

_ 25—Was invited to take dinner at the
home of my favorite Professor. Davidson is
not such a bad place after all. Tonight we
had Marion Davies in the “Young Diana.” It
did well enough.

26—Mrs. Smith inspected this morning.
She came into my room with what she called
“The last relic of barbarism.” It was a
small paddle that would not hurt an infant
of two months. ‘Tonight some were invited
to a party at the Black’s. I was not one of
the lucky ones. The ones who went re-
ported a fine time.

27—Got up. Ate. Went to bed.

28—Frank Toney has at last gotten out
of the Infirmary. Major Hearn and Cap-
tain Weatherby have also been celebranng
Christmas by having “flu.” Major Hearn’s
was the longest case of flu in Davidson. His
was something over six feet five.

29—Bad weather. It rained so hard that
Cromwell was actually obliged to go with-
out a date.

30—Invited out to dinner again. Also I
have received another box. That girl of
mine can just naturally make the best fudge
that was ever put in a pan.

31—A long day. .At 12 at night we rang
the bell and let out a whoop or two and went
to bed.

. January 1—Big di Alma R in
“Valley of Silent Men,” at night. The pic-
ture was nearly as poor as the book.

2—Last day to loaf. Well, it has not been
so bad after all.

hy,

NUT SUNDAES

O. J. ALLISON

The double quartet certainly adds much to
the singing in church on Sunday mornings.

Since paddles are taboo, the D. D. A. has
begun to function with machine-like regu
larity. If you desire membership apply to
Jack Austin.

Paraphrasing an old adage, Rube Curdts
remarked the other day: “A yeast cake a
day keeps the pimples away.”

Is it Cupid or just a passing fancy that
has affected a popular member of the Senior
class?

“Wait, wait, wait,” was the request made
by Paul Steele last Saturday night when
nocturnal prowlers entered his domicile.
They heeded not his plea and in a second’s
time he found his bed resting upon him.

Chink Woods sighed “day by day and in
every way I'm getting debter and debter,”
as he borrowed another dime from Twick
for cigarettes,

Here’s hoping that Pat Crawford's opera
tion won't disable him from making his
usual good showing in basketball.

The source of those strange noises you
have been hearing lately come from ‘Ted
Jones’ room where he is attempting to teach
a bunch of Freshmen how to harmonize.

Dick MeMillan said to Roddey Hough on
Psychology class as the latter seated him-
self beside Dick: “Hough, you're the near
est to nothing I've ever seen.”

Professor to Mr, ‘Toney from Arkansas:
“lve never chard even uneducated people
use that expression, have you Mr. ‘Toney 2”
ray

Christmas for some was so strenuous that
a few days of rest in the Infirmary were
necessary, ‘Those guilty of this charge are
J. C. Anderson, R! M. Segoe, W. P. Brown
and W. A. Gamble.

Mr. and Mrs, Lubboke and Miss Mildred
Lubbock spent a few hours on the Hill
Sunday visiting R. P. Brewn, 23,

Misses Helen and aKthryn Foil and Mr.
FE. C. Sutton motored over from Charlotte
Sunday afternoon to visit friends on the
campus,

D-
DEBUTTONER WORKING
PERFECTLY AT LAUNDRY

For lo! these many days no word has
heen spoken concerning that part of college
life which has to do with the neat and
dressed up appearance of so many parlor
athletes, namely, the laundry. — Helper’s
Home for Dilapidated Duds is now in its
third -year and going strong. As usual it
is handicapped immediately before and after
each holiday because of the natural tendency
of all patrons to save up all the soiled socks,
shirts and handkerchiefs. for two weeks prior
to each of the aforementioned dates and
dump them all at one time upon the inno-
cent and unsuspecting laundry.

The general equipment of the home has
been greatly augmented since its installation
in 1921 by several enlargements in the Ripper
and Mangling machine, and by a few extra
Stainers and Streakers, so ably described in
the Davidsonian in Sptember, 1921. In ad-
dition to the above mentioned improvements
one of the latest inventions in the laundry
line, known as the Socktwister, has been in-
stalled. The function of this new piece of
machinery is to insure the holes in socks
being thoroughly pressed out. :

The management has also considered seri-
ously the proposal to inaugurate a Search-
er’s Bureau whose principal duty shall be
to hunt through all laundry in the estab-
lishment at the time for any article desired
by any member of the Laundry Association.
It is thought that this innovation would soon
pay for itself. -

Being a laundry with a system all its own,
it is announced that in the future any article

_will be accepted, varying in range from

derbies to golf slippers, with the exception
of Henry White's shoes and Ford curtains.

D.

REPORTERS’ CLUB PLANS
TO INCREASE ITS WORK

The Reporters’ Club is planning to make
its weekly meetings more interesting and in-

structive this term than has been its custom

in the past. To the club’s regular program
of constructive criticism of the Davidsonian
is to be added the study of Ross's book on
Writing of News. It will not attempt to
have the whole club read the entire book but
each week one member will be responsible
for a certain portion of the work and with
thorough preparation he will bring some-
thing worth-while to the other members. In
this manner the whole club will be benefited
and the individual members,:as their time
comes to lead the discussion, will get even
more good from it.

With the study of this book and an open
discussion of it there will go along also a
study of specimens of good and poor news-
paper writing as found in both the David-
sonian and other papers. The desire of the
club is to put out the best college paper in
the South. To do this it fully realizes its
problem. As it co-operates with the staff
it feels that it has a big job confronting it
and one in which it must put forth every
effort if it is to succeed. tm! getting out a
good weekly, its primary aim is to make it
a success first of all as a newspaper. To do
this each person who is connected with its
publication must! be acquainted with the
fundamentals of journalism and this course
to be taken up is designed to be of much
help here.

-D.

FORENSIC FRATERNITY
RECENTLY ORGANIZED

An oratorical fraternity has recently been
organized at Davidson. This new organ-
ization called the “Gavel and
Forum.” The purpose of this organization

is to he

“~

is to promote interest in) public speaking
and literary society work on the campus.

The first meeting was held last Friday
night, January 12th, in the form of a ban-
quet at Mrs. Brady's. After a delightful
repast had been partaken of the chapter was
organized, officers were elected, a constitu-
tion was adopted, and plans were made for
the coming year.

This will undoubtedly fulfill a great need
felt by the literary activities of the campus
as there are fraternities on the hill for prac-
tically every other kind of student activity.
The charter hy — their
abilities have proven themselves worthy of
the establishment of such a fraternity.

No doubt this announcement will be greet-
ed with keen interest by many students, es-
pecially the members of literary societies.
Davidson has long been noted for the bril-
liant orators and pro-
duced, but they have never been recognized
in such a capacity up to this time. No doubt
this should go a long way towards arousing
a keener interest: in the art.

The following are charter members of
the Gavel and Forum: II. K. Russell, G. B.
Sorrels, J. D. Bernhardt, 1. P. Burney, J.
W. Baldwin, W. H. Moore, D. HH. Ogden,
Jr. W.T. Elliott and EF. S. Johnson. Pro-
fessors A. Currie, Porter and Wagner are
members from the faculty,

]).

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY
PLANNING EXPANSION

The Gamma Sigma Ipsilon honorary fra-
ternity for students in chemistry held its
semi-monthly meeting in the Chemistry
Laboratory on Friday evening, January 12th.
It was announced at this meeting that there
is going to be a new chapter of the frater-
nity installed at the Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity on January 29th. «The older students
of Davidson will recall that this fraternity
was founded here in the spring of 1920. It
now has chapters at the University of
Florida and North Carolina State College
and it is planning further expansion this
spring. Davidson is justified in being proud
of this, its own fraternity, which has pro-
gressed so well and has such a promising
future before it.

The latter part of the meeting was de-
voted to the reading, by Doctor Arbuckle
and Professor Thies, of papers on the
nitrates. ‘This was followed by a general
discussion of the subject by the other mem-
bers. The future programs of the meet-
ings include the discussion of chemistry as
applied to oils and leather.

D.

1:

STRANGE HAPPENINGS IN
SKY STARTLE STUDENTS

Whether the prophecies of Itihw, the
prophet are true or not, the Davidson obser-
vatory reports that certain ethereal pheno-
mena indicate that the end of time is near
at hand. It is a matter of no small con-
sideration to see Venus leading Diana a
chase at mid-day. Probably the learned as-
trologers are correct im believing that this is
a sure sign that everybody will pass exams
and no more gravy will be served at the
Trough. But the nature of the case has led

|

members forensic

speakers she has

some to believe that we will have concrete
walks by May and free picture shows every
Friday and Saturday night, and that all the
boarding houses will in the future order
their meats and beans from Sears and Roe-
buck. However; it only remains to be seen
what will happen to Fresh that walk on the
grass and Senior derbies when it snows.
And this sign surely ought to serve as a
warning to Captain George’s army to be
prepared for this year’s predicted war. At
all hazards, whether conditions improve, or
flappers go back to short dresses, students
should be serious and stop neglecting bull
sessions hy studying, for since “the memory
of man runneth not to the contrary,” this
strange phenomena has never before hap-
pened and it certainly has some foredoding
worthy of the best consideration,

D:

GOOD INTENTIONS BEAR
NO SCHOLASTIC WEIGHT

What a privilege the Seniors have! They
get out of their exams—if, yes if, (Seniors,
don't you wish “if” was not in the English
language ?), they make 85 for the term’s
average,

To have these Seniors
talk at the beginning of the year, one would
size their class up as a model, a number 1
class.

heard notorious

“Why of course | am going to get
out of my exams.” Certainly, September 23
each man in the class of 23 thought that,
without a doubt, HE would get out of HIS
eaxms, in fact, most of them had, deep
down in their cultured minds, the thought
of heading the Honor Roll.

Indeed, to..have glanced down the class
rolls, and noted the popularity of the
“Crips” among these ambitious Seniors, one
was almost. led to believe that all the I's
was NOT just idle talk.

But no such luck, these mighty men forgot
one little thing in their little plan, they over-
looked the fact that the old college had paid
professors to estimate their knowledge, they
made the mistake to think that their opinion
of their ability would go.

The Profs, by various and sundry means,
have proved to most of the Seniors that a
man is not always what he thinks he is
Others have heen convinced sthat the little
girl in Greenville, Rock Till or Greensboro
he bored with his presence the entire exam
period, and some have even -been brought to
helieve that the pursuit of learning is more
important than competing with rabbits in
track meets.

Good intentions are all right as far as they
g0, Seniors,

D.

HAROLD LLOYD IN
“DOCTOR JACK,” COMING

The picture for Saturday night is Harold
Lloyd in “Doctor Jack.” Tt is the story of a
country doctor who has earned nearly three
hundred dollars but has yet to collect it. The
girl in the picture is called the sick-well girl.
Her parents are wealthy and employ a spe-
cialist, who has hoodwinked the parents into
thinking she is sick to attend her. He has
kept the case three years and is getting a
good income out of it. The father's lawyer
meets Doctor Jack and decides that he is
the doctor for the “girl, Accordingly, he
introduces him to. the father and gets the
case for him. He of course effects an im-
mediate cure and the old specialist leaves
in disgrace.

A typical case of Doctor Jack’s is given
in the first of the picture. A child calls
him up and asks him to come out there, that
Mary has fallen in the well and is about to
drown, After running a good part of the
way out he finds that Mary is a rag doll.
Il¢ saves a boy from a whipping and makes
an old man forget his gout with a saxo-
phone. ‘

This pieture is Harold Lloyd's best and
full of laughter from beginning to end. It
is the biggest and most expensive production
he has ever made.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

PM —

Mauze, Crawford, Mallory,
Beall, Davis—Wildcats All.

