THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

Now that the holidays are over and there
is nothing but the memories left, maybe she

wouldn't tell you she loved you. But can
you remember any woman who (before you
fought) admitted that she did NOT really
love you?

All during the holidays students were
claiming to be killing themselves with study
—but so far the Davidsonian hasn't heen
overburdened with obituary notices.

Jack Austin reports that he carried one of
the fair things to ride this Christmas in his
car and when they got out in the country, he
tried to kiss her. She got sore and walked
back. Rather tough on “Bright Eyes” Austin
but he says he got back at her the next time
for he carried her out in a motor boat.

A girl's ‘No” often means “Yes,” but her
“Yes” never means “No.”
—o
Prof.—Nothing ever was, now is, or ever
will be that did not come from something
that was, now is, or will be.”
Vie Brown—“That explains the hole in
the doughnut.” p

wy

ys that a cheap car does not
a Rolls-Royce, but there is
more chance of it breaking down out on the
country roads.

The flapper s:
* look as keen as

e
For the benefit of all students who are
undecided as to their life work we offer the
following :

A Spirited Vocation

Each year a host of college grads go out
into the world to earn their living and make
their mark (as they say in Germany). But
this year another great field is open to the
college man. Bootlegging has attracted un-

told numbers of young men to serve beneath
its colors, the predominant color right at
present being amber brown, while most of
the serving is done in hotels. We look to
these men to uncork some wonderful results
when current matters now brewing have been
stilled.

On the first floor Rumple the other night
the question under discussion Was, the dates
with different girls during the holidays.
Upon naming one girl, one of the Senior
members of the bull session remarked “That
girl is dead from the neck up.” Immediately
a Freshman (whose name we are unable to
give at this writing as he is not able to re-
ceive visitors yet) remarked, “Well, what
do you care? Her neck is all right.”

A favorite expression around Davidson at
this time of the year: “Say, roomie, let me
see your account book will you? Father
wants me to send him an account of my
monthly expenditures.”

When the news is running low
Then it is the papers blow

And we become the passing show,
Then they show the college-man.
Poor college man.

Every southern school is&aiking
Rank with booze and opium smoking
So the critics are all croaking—
Croak about the college man

Poor college man.

Standards are the lowest yet,
All we do is drink and pet,
All our good points they forget, i.
But ne’er forget the college man—

&

Poor colleeg man.

“Wiggs” Bradford says it’s all a mistake—
another good resolution broken.

LOOK INTO THE FUTURE
(Continued from Page 1)
Carolinas and Virginia. Georgia ‘ech and
Wofford are gone from the 1923 schedule
and two old opponents, Citadel and Clemson,

take their places.

Never has there been keener rivalry be-
tween two teams than between the Clemson
Tigers’ and Davidson Wildcats, and the
scheduling of ‘this game marks the renewal
of a struggle as closely matched as it is
fiercely contested. Ignoring the S. A. ‘I’. C.
year the series stands a tie with each team
winning four..times and three resulting in
ties. During the S. A. ‘T. C. season the
Tigers won by a 7-0 count. This will be the
first contest between the two since 1919 and
will be played at Clemson with a return en-
gagement at Davidson the next year.

The Citadel game will be the Homecom-
ing Day attraction this fall. Citadel always
puts up a hard fight against the Wildcats
and several contests have ended in ties. ‘The
remaining teams on the schedule were played
last year, but the dates have heen switched
in many instances. :

Trinity takes Furman’s place as our
Turkey Day opponents and the scene of the
battle will be Charlotte. Furman will be
played at the State fair in Columbia, S. C.,
late in October. Since the game will not be
played at Greenville, the Wildcats may be
able to shake off the jinx of the past three
years and humble the Hurricane.

The scenes of the Carolina and State
clashes have not been decided but Winston-
Salem, Charlotte and Greensboro are being
strongly considered. With 10 letter men
back, the Wildcats are looking for a banner
season. e

Captain—Not elected.

Manager—A. M. Hillhouse.

Letter men returning—Shepherd, half;
Faison, end; Davis, C. M., end; Clarke,
tackle; Hendrix, quarter; Hunt, half; De-
Arinon, half; Mallory, end; Fields, center ;
Cox, tackle.

September 22—Elon at Davidson.

September 29—P. C. at (undecided).

October 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.

October 13—Citadel at Davidson.

October 20—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

October..24—Furman.at Columbia, S. C.

(State fair). i

November 3—N. C. State at (undecided).

November 10—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.

November 17—Carolina .at (undecided).

November 29—Trinity at Charlotte.

BASKETBALL

The Wildcat quint is rapidly rounding into
form for the opening game of the season
with Charlotte “Y”’ on the 16th of this
month, Last year and again this season the
schedule makers have been handicapped. by
examinations which come the last of Jan,
uary and seriously impair the length of the
season, A return to the old two-term sys-
tem with exams before. Christmas or an
adoption of the three-term session would do
away with this difficulty.

So far 14 games have been scheduled in
the Carolinas. A three-game North Caro-
lina trip, a three-game South Carolina trip
and two games in Charlotte make up the
out of town games and the reamining six are
scheduled for the Hill.

A contest with Carolina was not closed as
they were. not willing to play on the home
and home plan or on a neutral floor. ‘I'wo
games each are scheduled with Wake Forest,
Elon, State and Wofford. Last season the
Poison squad annexed both games from
Wake Forest, State and Wofford and split
with the Elon aggregation. ‘Trinity will be
met in Charlotte and one contest each will
be played with Furman and Clemson on the
South Carolina trip. Three games with Y.
NGA, complete the meagre
schedule.

There is a possibility that several more
games will be arranged by Manager Adams
for this year’s fast traveling five. State
championship honors are in sight and every
man on the squad is working hard to make
this the best basketball season in Davidson's
history.

Captain—G. W. Mauze.

Manager—-J. M. Adams.

Letter men back—Mauze, center; Craw-
ford, guard; C. M. Davis, guard; Beall, for-
ward; Mallory, forward. :

teams

January 16—Charlotte Y. M: C. A. -at:

Charlotte.

February 3—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at

Davidson.
February 5 or 7—N. C. State at Davidson.

February 6—Trinity at Charlotte.

February 8—Wofford at Davidson.

February 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.

February 15—Wake Forest at Wake
Forest.

February 16—Elon at Elon,

February 19 or 20—Wake Forest at Da-
vidson,

February 21—Clemson at Clemson.

February 22—Wofford at Spartanburg.

February 23—Furman at Greenville.

February 26—Sumter Y. M. C. A. at Da-
vidson,

March 3—Elon at Davidson.

BASEBALL
The Wildcat team must be thoroughly re-
constructed this season. One infielder, one
outfielder and three pitchers is the nucleus
around which this year’s team must be form-
ed. Pat Crawford at first, Brice in the

_outer gardens, and Boushee, McPherson and

Sorrells on the mound, are the only letter
men in harness, but there is much new ma-
terial in a well balanced aggregation.

For the first time in several years, a Vir-
ginia trip will be made. The University,
V. M. 1, and V. P. I. wilt’be met and the
Techmen have scheduled a return engage-
ment at Davidson. On the South Carolina
trip Clemson, Wofford and Furman will be
the Wildcats opponents and the Clemson
Tigers come up to Davidson for a game.
Last season the Wildcats lost two of three
to the South Carolina teams by small mar-
gins.

Two games each are scheduled with Elon,
State and Trinity, and the Wake Forest Bap-
tists come to Davidson for one contest, Tak-
ing everything into consideration, it is the
stiffest schedule the Wildcat nine has had ‘to
face in several years, and victory would rank
them high in the South Atlantic standing.

A¥rangements are being made for several
games with Southern teams, making North
Carolina trips, but Manager Elliott has. se-

Captain—C, R. Crawford.

Manager—W., T. Elliott.

Letter men back—Crawford, first base;
Brice, outfield; McPherson, pitcher; Sorrells,
pitcher; Boushee, pitcher.

March 30—Oak Ridge at Davidson.

March 31—Oak Ridge at Davidson.

April 2—Clemson at Davidson.

April 7—Trinity at Davidson.

April 9—N. C. State at Davidson.

April 14—Wake Forest at Davidson.

April 21—Elon at Davidson.

April 23—V., P. I. at Davidson.
April 25—Wofford at partanburg.
April 26-—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.

April 27—Furman at Greenville, S. C.

May 1—N. C. State at Raleigh.

May 2—Trinity at Durham.

May 3—Elon at Elon.

May 8—University of Virginia at Char-
lottesville. :
May 9—V. M. 1. at Lexington,

May 10—V. P, 1. at Blacksburg.

TRACK

The Red and Black track team with seven
letter men back, seems to be well up in the
running for honors this spring:
they captured third place in the State meet
and four of that team together with three
men from the year before are back on the
track, MeBryde, who did such excellent
work in the distance events his freshman
year, has been forced off the track and will
hot compete this season.

Two dual meets have been closed and one
more is pending, South Carolina and N.C.
State will be met on their fields and nego-

Last season

tiations are under way for a meet with
Trinity or Clemson here.

In addition to these meets the team will
enter the State meet again this year and it is
hoped that the monopoly which State and
Carolina have had in the last few years will
he broken,

Acting Manager—W. F. Galloway.

Letter men back—Galloway, half mile;
Dick, 220, 440, low hurdle; Striebich, pole
vault, high hurdles; Gentry, high jump,
broad jump, javelin; Gracey, pole vault, high
hurdles, broad jump, high jump; Koenig,
220, 440; McComb, javelin.

April 7—South Carolina at Columbia.

April 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.

April 21—Open date at Davidson.

May 3—State meet at Durham.

TENNIS

Of last year’s tennis team which won the
State championship, only one man remains—
S. H. Bradley. No schedule has been ar-

‘ranged, but several dual meets will be held

and a team will be entered in the State tour-
nament. Harry Price, the winner of the fall
tournament, has the brightest chance for the
second place, but there will bea great deal
of competition over the remaining places.

The spring tournament will decide the
personnel of the team which will represent
the college in the spring matches. Carolina
and Trinity both have strong teams and the
Wildcats need the best they can get to hold
their own this spring,

WRESTLING

Last season the Wildcat grapplers lost
their only mateh to Trinity by a score of 12
points to 10, With practically all the men
back, this year should prove a good season
for the matmen. ‘Three matches have been
arranged with V. M. 1, Trinity and South
Carolina and attempts are being made by
Manager Cromartie to arrange two more
matches with North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
and V. P. Tat Blacksburg. All men with
any knowledge of the sport are needed in the
turning out of the team.

Captain and Manager—A. D. Cromartie.
February 23—Trinity at Durham.

March 2—South Carolina at Davidson.

cured none to date, Captain —W. Fy Galloway, March 9—V, M. 1, at Lexington, Va.
é 5
¢ >
,
CRMLANGLIYS FIRST MODEL IN FLIGHT re

oS
<

men broke their necks
trying to fly. They had
not troubled to discover
what Solomon called “the way of
an eagle in the air.”

In 1891 came Samuel Pierpont
Langley, secretary of the Smith-

silver to gold.

sonian Institution. He wanted

facts. His first step was to whirl
flat surfaces in the air, to measure
the air pressures required to sus-

refused to encourage him further.
He died a disappointed man.

Langley’s scientific study which
ultimately gave us the airplane
seemed unimportant in 1896.
Whole newspaper pages were given
up to the sixteen-to-one ratio of

“Sixteen-to-one” is dead polit-
ically. Thousands of airplanes
cleave the air—airplane

built

tain these surfaces in motion and
to study the swirls and currents of
the air itself. Finally, in 1896, he
built a small steam-driven model
which flew three-quarters of a
mile.

With a Congressional appro-
priation of $50,000 Langley built
a large man-carrying machine. Be-
cause it was improperly launched,
it dropped into the Potomac River.
Years later, Glenn Curtiss flew it
at Hammondsport, New York.

Congress regarded Langley’s
attempt not as a scientific experi-
ment but as a sad fiasco and

}

General
General Office

Compan

with the knowledge that Langley
acquired.

In this work the Laboratories of
the General Electric Company
played their part. They aided in
developing the “supercharger,”
whereby an engine may be sup-
plied with the air that it needs for
combustion at altitudes of four
miles and more. Getting the facts
first, the Langley method, made
the achievement possible. :

What is expedient or important
today may be forgotten tomorrow.
The spirit of scientific research
and its achievements endure.

Electric

Sc! enectady, NY,

95-636D

