THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11,

1923

ALUMNI NEWS

Rev. H. F. Beaty, '03, has accepted a call
to the Cuban Mission in Ybor City, Tampa,
Fla. Mr. Beaty left Atkinson, N. C., where
he was pastor of the First. Presbyterian
Church, during the holidays to take charge
of his new work the first of the year. Mr.
Beaty was formerly a missionarg to Cuba,
being located at Placatus, so he should be
especially fitted for this new form of work.

Here and There
W. R. McCuen, ex-’23, is studying foreign
banking in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

H. A. Avery is living in Gastonia, N. C.

Locke White is with the Southern Pres-
byterian Mission in Nanking, China:

R. C. Drake, Jr., ex-'23, is working in
Rocky Mount, N. C.

J. E. Cassell, '20, a former baseball star,
and also a former editor of the Davidsonian,
is principal of the Lenoir High School. His
school has just moved into the most modern
and best-equipped building in the State.

Some idea of the size of the new building
may be gained by the fact that the stage of
the auditorium-is large enough to play bas-
ketball on, and it has been so designed that
this is possible, using the auditorium as the
stadium. There are dressing rooms under
the stage which are supplied with all modern
showers and dressing-room equipmeht.

The entire building is of fire-proof con-
struction and the plan is so designed that ad-
ditional sections may be added to keep pace
with the growth of the school, without spoil-
ing the design.

Mr. Cassell is coaching the athletic teams
of the High School during his spare time.

John M. Black, 18, Greenville; L. A. Wil-
kinson, ’13, Charlotte, and J. P. Grey, Cula-
mee, were on the campus attending the
alumni athletic council, Saturday.

W. H. Mills, 92, president of Clemson (S.
C.) College, was on the campus last week,

A. R. Christenbury, '17, fielder on the
Boston National League Baseball Club, is
spending a few months of the winter with his
parents, Dr, and Mrs, J. R. Christenbury.
He is receiving congratulations from his
friends in regard to his recent marriage,

Rev. T. K. Currie, '04, saperintendent of
Sunday School work in the Synod of Vir-
ginia, was visiting his ‘mother last week.

J. W. Currie, 03, lawyer at Raeford, N.
C., was visiting in Davidson during the past
few days.

Rev. J. L. Fowle, ’18, has been conducting
a week’s meeting at Brawley’s schoolhouse
near Mooresville. Doctor Fowle is remem-
bered by the older members of the student
body for the visit made by him and Mr.
Summerville year before last. Mr. Fowle
is now engaged in evangelistic work in Vir-
ginia.

Rev. J. W. Brown, ’12, is now located at
30 Boulevard Lascar Catargin, Buscaret,
Romania, in the service of the American

Y. M.C. A.

Mr. Clifton Murphy, ’13, is practicing law
in New York City, and is making his home
at 43 Exchange Place.

Mr. H. M. Spann, ’20, of football fame,
is with the R. J. Reynolds. ‘Tobacco Com-
pany, with headquarters in Washington,
N. C.

Woodrow Clarke, ’16, was on the Hill last
week,

———

Thomas J. Fetzer

Following’ an illness of several weeks,
Thomas J. Fetzer, ’79, died at his home in
Wadesboro on December 31, 1922, He had
been ill in the Presbyterian hospital of New
York City “for a month before going to
Wadesboro. Mr. Fetzer was a well known
business man, having held large interests in
New York and other northern points,

The deceased was a native of Concord,
North Carolina, moving later to Wadesboro,
where he resided for many years. He was
a man of an exceptionally high type of
character, a Southern gentleman of the old
regime, whose friends were numbered by
thousands throughout the South and whose
business career was highly regarded by his
associates. He was an elder in the First
Presbyterian Church of Wadesboro. |

Mr. Fetzer is survived by his wife, two
eosonsyMessrs:-f."f--and FG. Fetzer, and

three daughters, Mrs. James H. Clark, Mrs.
Fred Mills, of Wadesboro, and Miss Doro-
thy Fetzer, also of Wadesboro.

Interment was made at Eastview ceme-
tery, Wadesboro. Officiating were Rev.
John Jordan Douglas, pastor of the deceas-
ed, Rev. C. L. Jackson, D. D., and Rev. W.
R. Shelton, assisting. ~

es
Mr. Willis R. Booth, ex-’22, was married
Saturday, December 31st, to Miss Mar-
guerite Dunlivy, of Henryville, Ind. They
will make their home in Louisville, Ky.,
where Mr. Booth is attending the Louisville
Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

Invitations have been received to the wed-
ding of James Ralph Dunn, ’15, to Miss
Nash, of Sumter, S. C. Miss Nash is the
sister of Shepherd Nash, ’15.

A wedding of much interest among Da-
vidson students and citizens alike, was that
of Mr. Walter S. Henderson, class of 1912,
of Davidson, and Miss Florence Murphy, of
Atkinson, N. C., which took place in the
Presbyterian Church of Atkinson, December
28, at 5:30 p. m. The ceremony was per-
formed by Rev. H. IF, Beaty, pastor of the
bride, and Rev. W. P. M. Currie, of Wal-
lace.

Miss Murphy is a member of an old family
in the Cape Fear section of eastern North
Carolina. Her father, John A. Murphy, is
one of the most influential citizens and pro-
gressive farmers of Pender county. She was
educated at Queens College, Charlotte, where
she specialized in music and expression.

Mr. Henderson has lived in Davidson
practically his entire life. He was graduated
from Davidson with the class of 1912. Re-
turning to this city after the war, he has
since been engaged in the jewelry business.

Handsome engraved announcements read-
ing as follows, have been received in the
city:

Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Balsam
announce the marriage of their daughter
Ruth Alphonsine
to
Mr. Joseph Reece Morton
on Friday, twenty-ninth of December
nineteen hundred and twenty-two
Brooklyn, New York.

Mr. Morton finished at Davidson with the
class of 1920 and was well known among
the students. The bride and groom are
making their home in Greensboro, where Mr.
Morton is engaged in business. .

COMMENTARIES FROM
“ETIHW,” THE PROPHET

1—Now it came to pass in the days of
Samuel Davis, the king, in the time of the
latter rains, that Paul surnamed Freeland, of
the house of Georgia, of the family of the
first floor, sojourned in the land of the Bar-
tacks, and tarried long in the house of ‘Paul
the son of Patter and bulled with him.

2—When the night was far spent, and the
bullfight was daggone near over, Paul whose
surname was Freeland wotting that there was
naught more to expect, seeing as no meat
had been set before him, nor any oil poured
upon his head.

3—Neither had dancing damsels with tim-
brel and sackbut been called in to cheer him,
arose and fell upon the neck of Paul the son
of Patter, and wept hard upon his neck and
kissed him, and took his departure with
him.

4—And when Paul the Patterson saw that
the other Paul was completely departed, he
fell-upon his knees and praised the saints,
giving thanks that his life had once again
been spared, and layed himself down in pa-
jamas to sleep.

5—Then there cried unto him Bosche, the
industrious, saying,

6—Surely the enemy hath been delivered
into our hands, for there is a man without
in the snare, who hath even fallen into the
entrenchment prepared for the iniquitous, the
deadfall with grievous furnace pipes in the
midst thereof.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY

7 p. m.—Eumanean Society.

7 p. m.—Phi Society.
SATURDAY

7:15 p. m—Movie, “Kick In,” fea-

turing Bert Lytell, Betty Compson and
May McAvoy.

SUNDAY
10 a. m—Union Band meeting.
11 a. m.—Church services.
1:15 p. m—C. E. Training class.
3:30 p. m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p. m.—Vesper service.

TUESDAY
6:45 p. m.—Metrophilian Society.
7 p. m—Pandeinic Society.
WEDNESDAY
7 p. m.—Eu Freshman Society.
9 p. m.—Bible classes.

ras

7—And even as he spake, there was heard
from without a piteous cry for succor so that
though they were mighty men, and of great
valor, yet the hearts of them both were in-
clined toward their enemy.
8—And they forsook the weapons which
they had taken up, even the habergeons and
mavericks which were in their hands, and
hastened to save him.

9—Now when they saw that it was Free-
land who had fallen into the pit, because of
the great mud, and the darkness, and because
of his ignorance, they were astonished by the
space of six minutes.

10—Then were there spirits troubled and
they gat themselves grappling irons and flesh
hooks, and having undergirded him with
helps, they hoisted him from out the pit of
destruction and nourished him.

11—Paul whose surname was Freeland,
however, suffered much from hydrophobia
and indigestion of the brain for many min-
utes, for he had scorhed his fingernails se-
verely, and had sat him down with violence
from a great height.

12—Nevertheless, when his ghost was re-
stored to him, he vowed a great vow, that
because he had been delivered with so great
deliverance, after having bulled in the room
of one who had desired to study, that for
conscience sake, he would cat nothing save
food, drink nothing save liquid, till such
time as she should see fit, ‘

13—Now again, in the time of the latter
rains, in the time of the same durn king,
about the space of half an hour after that
Paul had been rescued, Mebane the Scat-
terbrain, likewise came to grief.

14—In the late watches of the night
Mebane strove with the spirit of distraction
and prevailed not against it, so that he was
constrained to stray abroad upon the face of
the campus.

15—Moreover the elements yet battled one
with the other, so that Mebane was befuz-
zled as to the way, and erred from the
straight and narrow path.

16—When Mebane therefore, arrived at
the crossing of the ditch, even the self-same
ditch that had caused Paul whose surname
is Freeland, to condescend to things of low
estate, as he essayed to cross to the side op-
posite him, which lieth over against the
hither bank, he fell from that which extended
across the ditch eastward, and brast his shin-
bone upon the pipes.

17—Great was the wrath of Mebane then,
and he strove mightily to exude from the pit,
but the sides were steep and he could not,
And the pipes were hot.

18—Mebane therefore was filled with ex-
ceeding great wrath, and cried aloud and cut
himself with stones, and cast earth into the
air, yet was not his.wrath abated.

19—Then he plucked great gobs of mud
from the sides of the pit, and brake them in
pieces, and cursed them, and reviled them,
and stamped the residue with the feet of
him and so he came toward home.

20—Mebane verily gat himself out of the
pit with violence, but of his shin he left much
therein, and in the morning moreover, of the
fragments they gathered up twelve baskets
full.

On the Square

Courteous Regards
For
the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

‘CHARLOTTE, N. C.

x

CHRISTMAS MIGRATIONS °
HASTENED BY FLU

In the second year of the reign of War-
ren, son of Harding, the king, there was a
college in the country of the North Caro-
linians, which was called Davidson.

And lo in those days the High Priest call-
ed together the Judges, which numbered
twenty and four, who after much chewing
of the rag, did issue a decree that the twen-
ticth day of the twelfth month snoutd be
declared throughout all the realm, to every
nation and every tongue, as the beginning of
the Feast of Christmas. It was also decreed
that no person, male or female, should jour-
ney forth until the day appointed.

Now it happened that in that twelfth
month that there was a great flood over ali
the land so that there arose a great pesti-
lence which caused the people of the land
to cough and to sneeze. Yea, verily, the peo™
ple did even cough in chapel, during the
second hour of the day, where they were
come together to hear the reading of the
law.

It came to pass in those days that the pes-
tilence waxed so great that many were wont
to procure hot water from one, a Greek of
Athens. Now the hot water did cause The
temperature of those persons to rise so that
the Learned One, .of much experience, fear-
ing the spread of the plague did send them
to their homes in great haste.

Yea, indeed, one John, surnamed Simpson,
a man of no mean ability, did become so
sorely afhicted that he did depart in his fiery
chariot for the city of
four hour's journey.

Certain ones of the tribe of Wildcats,
numbering twenty and two, who were ex-
ceedingly unfortunate during these days
were compelled to remain until the appointed
time.

And there was an inhabitant of the town,
an Ethiopian called Enoch. Now Enoch was
a great man among his people. Enoch arose
early in the morning and said to his son,
Hoojohn, “Son, my days are many and I
have worked hard all the days of my life.
While the inhabitants of the tents, Barracks,
East, West, Georgia, Watts and Rumple, are
gone on a great campaign against the fair
Happers, let us this once observe the Feast of
Christmas.” ’

So it was that the Hill rested the latter
part of the twelfth month in the second year
of the reign of Warren, son of Ilarding, the
King.

Greensboro about

>broa-0-—<

HEADQUARTERS
All ‘New

DANCE RECORDS|

Pianos and Players

Gibson Guitars and Mandolins

SHEET MUSIC

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"

ANDREWS
MUSIC STORE

211-213 N. TRYON ST.

If You Have Money, We
Want It.

If You Need Money, We
Have It:

Morris Plan Bank

WInston-SALEM, N. C.

5

account,

bills, secure against FORGERY?

Puswrswacncnen | rue | womens | es |

OO oo oo oO

Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance, we write
these lines and they cost money which is supplied through your bank

Did you ever think about making that account with which you pay all

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

eR eet |

What Are Your

count ?

Winston-Salem
Asheville

|
|
|
|
|

NONE TOO SMALL

R, A. DUNN, President
1D. H, ANDERSON, Vice-President
(. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

SESSESESSESERSEEESEERSEE ESS EESEs aia aeasaatests:

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC,, OVER $1,000,000.00.

Banking Needs?

Do you need investment advice?

Are you interested to learn how we can serve you and
your family in matters of trust?

Would you like to open a savings or a checking ac-

Are you thinking of insurance?

The Wachovia, Its Staff, and Its Officers
Are-at Your Service.

The ;
WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.

NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh

Salisbury
High Point

_ aSEE env E eEN neE erEe |

NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The. Commercial National Bank

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. T, SUMMEY, Cashier ‘
I, W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

SESDNESEESEESEESTESTERsaaseesestestae

