4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN 2a =,

NUT SUNDAES

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association | a a
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association. TI excHaNce |
evening, our Hi-Y work, the country Sunday

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest on the Hill” COLUMN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. ie af: | school, the mid-week Bible classes and many
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class, c——, — jother branches of activities on the campus

SUBSCRIPTION RATES | Most of this work is for our direct benefit
. but we h department of the “Y”,

10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year. The Village Flapper | but we have one dep

Under the swinging drug store sign,

| which is conducted for others. This is the
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 ‘The ‘village capper Gate ; | Mission Fund department.
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. \‘The flap; a clever kid is she,

‘aa ‘An rtunity
| The work of the Y. M. C. A. has many

|
| OPEN FORUM
|

phases at Davidson. We have our picture
| shows every week, our service on Sunday

Every year it has been the custom at Da-
vidson to raise a sum of money to send to

R. F. DAVIDSON............Editor-in-Chiet H. H. SMITH........ +.Forum Editor) Who never lacks her dates. ‘ sacs ;
I, D, ELKINS... Managing Editor RC. AIKEN. Campus Editor | |the support of some definite mission work
7M. STON. Second Managing Editor D. HH. OGD BN est . se Ihe : ae |In this way we have been able to help out
E RGNUr ES: itor H, M BRR yer ditor Laughing, smiling, oie: | the work of our church a great deal and we
F. W) Bal Editor We Sy BRADEORD. itor; All set for another bloke; ‘have felt that by denying ourselves some
Coc cccccccccecce x A 4 | :

= Each evening sees a man picked up, things that we have given large numbers of
PRESS BUREAU i Each morning sees him broke. | people opportunities for education and medi-

W. Z. BRADFORD.............s000. Manager W. F. GALLOWAY....... Assistant Manager | ear Avian

tants : : ; I
SMITH, C. F. BARRINGTON, hoSs MINTER, J. A. And so through ne M1) lightly gives, Our money went last year to the support
APPLEBY, J. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D. Many a happy shout; lof Hangchow College, an institution very
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT But yet the poor girl's never there i | similar in ideals to Davidson. We would like
W. J. COOPER......; MACHO CREE Tee Riveineiesieee When the diamond rings 8 ae Row!,| °° raise an amount of money this year that

» PULL Bes seececcveee vertisin olicitors . ‘sank Al A

FaMes MCCUTCHEN v,  Gace Amsstant ne BuJi ROSCH.... ccc. .c005 Advertising Copy unch Dow!l.' we will be proud of and let those people

know that we are in sympathy with their
work over there and that we think enough
of them to give them our financial support.
Vrey soon you will be given an opportu-
ty to contribute to this fund and it will be
more fully explained at that time. We would

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mgr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB

“The student must be affirmative. He must
be willing to throw his personality into the
i scales in behalf of those causes be believes ,
to be fine, And he must have enthusiasm. | ni
Whether they are for better congressmen |

McILWAINE, C. M. J
Bown RB Kn Yisenres, Mxuz ‘i é w PARTE B; B. or better babies, for fewer words or fewer | tike to have every man in school contribute
ALLISON, O. J. MOFFE'T, A._N. WHARTON, D. B. wars, for more interesting movies or more something to this cause. Be thinking about
CACROUN MAE: MOORE Ws Oa eas AS interesting men, he must support them with | 4); : f
BREN Rr ¢ R, ‘ PATTON, Be L eS M M i his { »_The Ned Student |this campaign and save up some money for
EAELOW , W. F. : POME 1 W. » J. M. all his force.”—The udent. lit
LAKE, J. A. E, i | oe
: A reminder.
i ; " The saddest words of tongue or pen |
Our basket-ball team this year is showing up fine again. All the men are D

May be, perhaps, “It might have been,”

working and the prospects look good for a successful season again. Let’s! But the sweetest words we know, by heck,
all get out and give the five all the support possible and pull for them to win Are only these: “Enclosed find check.”—
all the games that we have left on the excellent schedule that has been arranged Exchange.

for them.

T. .

‘LJ

Here lies the remains of Percival Sapp,
Who drove his car with a girl on his lap.

For a long time, there has been a movement on foot to adopt a standard | _Cardinal.

ring at Davidson, and finally it has come to «

successful termination. ‘The

|

ring that the Junior.Class selected, and which the whole student body backed | Roll, roll, roll,
them in, is one of the prettiest and at the same time, well-proportioned college |
rings that will be found in any college. Davidson can well be proud of it, and |
every alumnus treasure it after he has finished his course here.

1D.

Ly

Never before has a minstrel at Davidson been so successful, and never
before has one had an opportunity to present our school before the public, as

has the present cast under Prof. E. J. Erwin.

a distinction.

Such a thing brings us quite

TD.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
6 eles spring there has been some difficulty attached to the selection of —Farmer and Breeder.

proper and suitable dates for Junior Speaking. ‘The Juniors picked the

On the cold bare floor, O, Bones;
If you'll only do your job,
I'll have to make no loans.

Stop, stop, stop,
On the two and five, O, Dice; -
And then I'll feed on caviar,
Instead of beans and rice.—Exchange.

As the 6fd darkey said, “A chicken am de
mos useful animal dere am. Yo! can eat him
befoah he am bohn an’ after he am dead.”

“You laugh at the prohibition laws; the

PI DELTA EPSILON IS
OFFERING PRIZE MEDALS

Chicago, Ill. (Special) —Is the college
| graduate poorly equipped physically? Has
his bodily development been neglected be-
|cause of attention to mental development?
| Should a new standard of physical fitness be
| required of every student as a qualification
for a degree?

Every male undergraduate in the United
| States and Canada has been invited by Pi
Delta Epsilon, honorary collegiate journal-
ism fraternity, to answer these questions.

In announcing as the subject for Pi Delta
Epsilon’s 1923 Intercollegiate Editorial Con-
test: “Physical Development as a Requisite
for the College Degree,” Cecil P. Gordon, of
| Dartmouth College, general undergraduate
chairman, said:

“Last year hundreds of editorials were en-
| tered in our contest. Pi Delta Epsilon has
two qbjects: First, to interest American
college students in affairs affecting them all

week-end of March 16 and 17, which seemed very good until it was found | jibertine laughs at the marriage laws; the|as a group; and, second, to arouse a greater
that at this time the Y. M. C. A. already had an engagement made for con- | anarchist laughs at the property laws—watch interest in journalism in general and editorial
ducting its life-work campaign. Since these two would naturally conflict in| out or your son will laugh at all laws! Let’s| writing in particular. We confidently ex-

a number of ways, and since each should have ample tine, it was thought | Wit laughing at any law.’—Dan Morgan pect no less than 3,000 editorials.”
best to select another date for the social event, and the week-end of Easter |
was chosen. At this time, we are to have somewhat of a spring holiday, it
is undestood, and while there is some complaint being raised.about the pos-| Washington, It has never been at Washing- medals and ten bronze medals will be given.
sibility of our entertainment not being a success then, this should certainly not ton. ‘The government is where the people | Because of the nature of the subject chosen,

be the case.

Smith,

“The government of this country is not at

are. The court of last appeal is what the

| As in the past, Pi Delta Epsilon will award

| its coveted gold, silver and_bronze.médals 'to‘

prize winners, One gold medal, two silver

extensive publicity will be given by the

It was the lot of the Seniors last fall to have Senior Week under almost Pe°P!e think and feel, and that upon which Hi aopole Breas: in general/jand partied
identical circumstances, and all the same arguments were advanced against it.
However, we all realize what the few social functions that we have at David-| community, on the college campus, in the |
son mean to the life of the campus, and when such things as have come up church, in the polling place and in the place| Epsilon, has urged co-operation by college
this year, arise, it is just necessary to meet them squarely. and put our enter-|°f business, is an obligation that rests upon

they highly resolve. Therefore, the develop-

larly by sporting editors interested in inter-

|ment of this finer quality of soul in every collegaite athletics.

tainment over right inspite of them. This is the case now, and the com-|
mittee of the Junior Class in-charge of arrangements for this Speaking needs |
the support and backing of all its own class members, and of all the rest of us, |
too. With that they are going to be able to have a Speaking that will please |

us all.

us all.’—Dean Charles R. Brown, Yale.

Nothing is so useless as advice on how

‘to handle women—through the meshes.
Some things are simply inexplainable, and

among them is that 20 years from now the

Philip C.° Pack, grand editor of Pi Delta

faculties in making this subject compulsory
| with all students in English and rhetoric
lclasses, “In 1921-22,” he said, “many in-
| structors in these subjects required entry by
jevery student. Since the student is offered
|the additional incentive of participation in a
jcontest of national scope, instructors may

Nn | present crop of flappers will complain that| well expect very creditable work.”
a, |their daughters are immodest—through the| A letter received from the White House
MISSION STUDY. meshes, | from President Warren G. Harding, a mem-

URING the past year, there has been on the part of all the students a; Be patient—you probably get on some-| ber of Pi Delta Epsilon, indicates his thor-
lack of interest in weekly Bible classes that have been held on each floor | body’s nerves yourself.

of the dormitories.

Of course, there are a number of ways in which this |
might be explained, but it is impossible to find anything that could be called a through the meshes.

Everybody gets bumped now and then—

D.

satisfactory explanation. Davidson is a college where these Bible classes wiItpcaT MINSTRELS SCORED HIT

should receive a full measure of support, yet much to our shame, there have |
been many other colleges and universities who have outstripped us lately in

| (Continued from Page 1)
| They were encored heartily for their efforts.

attendance and successful classes. Such should not be.the case, and all should | Mr. Gallaher and Shean met with their usual

consider this matter and strive to find out what has been the cause of the success as was shown by the times they were |

Davidson students falling down where others have succeeded.

The-fault may have been with the teachers. Yet in practically every case,

they have striven to build up interest and attendance. It may have been with

the course given, or have laid in the fact that the ew dormitories have so | The

much larger floors, and lack of co-operation there may have hurt these classes

give

wet

Let’s all consider these classes as a pleasure
ing out regularly when. bell rings at 9:30

ny

every where. In any of these cases, it can certainly be remedied. Starting
last week, a new course in mission study has been put in. Dr. Porter is direct-
ing the teachers’ class, and every Wednesday night, they should all have some-
hi teresting given by him and also gotten from the book taken up,
all who will come. These classes never last long enough to be harm-
; man’s studying nor to tire him out, and particularly should the study
ico hold an attraction.

1

jcalled back to the stage. The act ended
| with the whole troupe singing “O Davidson.”
| A better minstrel has never been pre-
| sented to a Davidson College student body.
credit for this goes to Professor and
| Mrs. Erwin, who, by their untiring efforts
made the minstrel what it is. The student
body expresses their deep appreciation for
what they have done.

Wednesday ‘morning the Wildcat Minstrels
left Davidson to sojourn in a strange land.
Converse, G. W. C., Gastonia and Charlotte,
were to be visited by the troupe.

A special Pullman car has been chartered
by Manager Aiken and’ the minstrels will
travel jin state, as they gather the dust of
the Carolinas.

|

jough endorsement of the contest. As a
| former newspaper and college man, he is in
|whole-hearted sympathy with its object.
| Announcement of the contest rules will be
|made within the coming week.

| D—

| A STELLAR SCENE

| By the dreary River Styx sits an old man,

deep in meditation. Existence is wearisome
jand monotonous to Copernicus here in the
| borderland of Hades. No more can he con-
; template the heavenly bodies as they swing”
|in their majestic circles; for him there is
only an occasional black ripple upon the
glassy river, half lit by some flame in the
land behind him. No sound disturbs his|
melancholy save the quarreling monotone of
the waters in the reeds along the bank.

But, lo! A smile flits across his ashen
features; his weary eyes light with eager-|
ness. He rises to his feet and strains for-|
ward in an attitude of listening, |

“See it there?” he hears, “follow the edge |

“Sure, I see it now; you say it’s Venus? |

Signs of spring. Have you noticed them?

1. Frank Johnson and Fresh White in
track suits. . .

2. Renovated frenzy in horse-shoe pitch-
ing. ;

4, Miss Elenwood’s electric car.

4, Red McComb’s clean shirt. :

5. Sporty Alexander commences his usual
Cornelius expectations.

All freshmen were permitted to retire
from the Phi society 15 minutes early last
Thursday night, in order to attend the pep
meeting. Some 12 or 15 freshmen retired,
among them being Country Currie.

When Is a City Sweet Sixteen?

P. C. (one English) Charlotte is a beau-
tiful city nestled in the Piedmont region of

North Carolina. ;
Prof.—Mr. Henderson, when does a city

get too big to nestle?

Earnest requests that a little less noise be
made on third floor East, so that he can
accumulate sufficient sleep at night. He finds
it very annoying to be rudely awakened in
English class.

The friends of N. G. Patterson wish to
congratulate him upon the fine work done
during his presidency of the Eu society.

The greatest shock that has ever come to
the Davidson student body was felt a few
days ago, when it was reported that D. B.
Walthall and W. F. Galloway had fallen
out. It is welliknown that for the past
three years each has owed the inspiration
for his poetry to the other, and now that
they refuse to speak to each other, Ray
Carr may as well prepare to provide poems
for all occasions.

After the show last Saturday night, they
thought of settling their dispute as to
whether the feminist question originated
with the industrial revolution, or in the days
of Euripides, by a duel, but that was con-
sidered too prosaic a method. It is rumored

_that they will resort to a grits-eating con-

test to settle the question. If this plan is
resorted to, the friends of D, B. have noth-
ing to fear.

Among the week-end visitors on the cam-
pus were: Miss Mary Savage Gilliland,
Spartanburg, S. C.; Miss Lula Mae Smith,
Clarkston, N. C.; Misses Katie Bess and
Mary Anderson of Charlotte, and Mr. Karl
Deaton of Statesville, all of whom were vis-
itors of the Delta Theta Chi Fraternity.

T).

LD

Oh, What is so rare as a vacant night at
Davidson College? Thus the modern bard,
for ‘between first-night shows and a troupe
from Biddle University there is no time to
study from 7:30 to 10:30. Why, the only
thing needed is a few dozen curb-lights along
Dormitory Row, between East and Shearer
Hall and little old New York’s White Way
would be put so far in the shade that it would

|make the natives of ancient Babylon pull in

their necks.

There are only two thing that are quite
inconvenient about the whole matter. The
first is the filthy lucre one has to put out
in order to strut his stuff and the second is
that there should be a few dozen more com-
mittee meetings between 10:30 and 12:00.

One way to avoid the inconvenience of
having to roll the dough for all these hap-
penings and events would be to increase the
campus tax a couple of thousand dollars
and let students in free to all. these things

Our idea of a good week would be some-
thing like this:

Monday night—Basket-ball
dance.

Tuesday night—Dance.

Wednesday — Movies,
Swanson,

Thursday night—Lecture on the virtue of
not studying.

Friday night—Movies, featuring “Bebe
Daniels, and a dance.

Saturday night—Tiddley Winks tourna-
ment.

game and

featuring Gloria

| First time I ever saw a star in the daytime.”

: ‘Tis many a day since I have seeri such
interest displayed by mere man,” remarks
the old man to himself in happiness, deep and
profound. :

The conversation continues, - “Rube”
Curdts is heard to remark: “That ain't no
star, fool. There aren’t any stars in the
sky in the day-time!”

The old man falls. wearily to the gtound
and groans. He rends his robe in chagrin
and-disappointment and weeping, places ashes
upon his hoary head.

|
