”
-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY §8, 1923

OG Woe 88 on 0 CEE oo = nooo SS 9 A 8 DS 6

..

BUCK CURRIE SECURED
TO COACH BASEBALL

When the first call for baseball practice
is made A. L. Currie, former Wildcat star

and now “Y” secretary will be in charge of |’

the pastimers. Dr. J. M. Douglas has an-
nounced that Buck is the man to fill the-posi-
tion. .

For four years Buck has worked on the
mound for the Presbyterians and after his
graduation in 1921 he pitched for the Little
Rock Travellers along with two other Da-
vidson hurlers, Coach Hengeveld and Nor-
man Shepherd. In the spring of 1920 he led
the Wildcat team as captain and this season
he will again be at its head in a larger way.

The fall of 1922 Buck took up his work
as principal of the Davidson High School
and this year is general secretary of the
Y. M. C. A. at Dabidson, so for the past
six years he has been intimately connected
with student life on the campus.

Of last year’s team only five letter men
are back so Coach Currie will have the job
of rounding a new machine into shape. Cap-
tain Pat at first, Brice in the field and three
members of last year’s pitching staff are the
nucleus around which this year’s team must
be built, but the material is. available and
under Buck’s leadership the team will have
a successful season. The best schedule in
several years has been arranged with eight
games at home and ten on the road. A
game with Carolina has been scheduled for
April 2, but the place is undecided.

There is no doubt of Buck’s popularity
or ability, the two-essentials of real success
as a coach,

D.

TENNIS MANAGER PLANS
FOR SPRING TOURNAMENT

Rain and snow and rain again, and drizzle
drip and blow, and rain and snow and thaw
and slush, and some more rain and snow.
This is the present condition on the campus
now, but it will not last, and before long
the sun will shine forth and with it will
come the birds, and leaves and tennis sharks.
_ It is a little early to predict anything about
the personnel of this year’s tennis team, but
from the vast amount of material, a team
should be chosen of such a calibre that the
eagle of victory should again perch on the
back of the Wildcat, and the championship
of North Carolina should rest again with the
folds of the old Red and Black.

Manager Price is now in the act of making
out his schedule, and is in correspondence
with the authorities concerning the State
tournament at Durham this spring. He is
also arranging meets with the principal cel-
leges of this State.

Qoococ >

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
* United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

0c 000c > ¢

S002 SR eee
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball
goods, Wee sell the Spalding,
Reach and Wright & Ditson
goods, We have the exclusive
agency for A. G. Spalding &
Bros.

Rackets Restrung by an Expert

Myers Hardware and
Sporting Goods Co.
RAL RAUL, Mgr.

CHARLOTTE, N.C,

a

ATHLETICS

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT

HALL OF FAME

NORMAN BRUCE EDGERTON, '09
D** Football
D Baseball

Norman Bruce Edgerton of New Bern,
N. C., entered Davidson in thie fall of 1905,
and for four years he made himself famous
as a fighter and worker in the gridiron. Red
failed to make a letter his freshman year
but for the next three years as center, made
a name for himself in Wildcat grid annals.

Few centers have surpassed him and his
playing was a feature of every game. His
junior year he captained the Red and Black
and that season the Wildcats made one of
the best records in their history. Only five
college games were played, but the Wildcats
were victorious in three and only one was
lost. Virginia was tied-§-5, the only time
Davidson ever scored against her in football.
V. P. I. and Clemson both succumbed to
the attack of Red’s fighting team and then
A. & M. won 6-0 in a bitterly contested
affair, They were South-Atlantic cham-
pions, however, and the man who won the
game and gained the majority of the ground
was later declared ineligible. ‘The Red and
Black wound up the season in a blaze of
glory by defeating the fighting cadets from
V. M. I. 10-6,

His senior year Red managed the baseball
team. After graduating Red assisted in the
coaching department at Davidson and then
went to the College of Charleston. From
Charleston he went to the University of
South Carolina and made the Gamecocks a
leading factor in Carolina athletics. Only
two college teams have ever beaten the Wild-
cats on the gridiron at Davidson and Red's
palmetto team accomplished the feat in 1913.
Furman won in 1902 and together with the
University under Red Edgerton, stand out
as the only teams to turn the trick.

All the world loves a fighter, and for this
reason Red will always be welcome at Da-
vidson. As a member of the alumni coach-
ing staff he has been seen on the hill more
than once and is always ready to do all in
his power for Davidson.

1).

CONCORD AND MAIDEN
DEFEATED BY DAVIDSON

During the last week in January the local
High School opened its 1923 basket-ball
season with two victories to its credit. ‘The
first with Maiden High School, 32-11, and
the second with Concord High School whom
they trounced to the tune of 24-18,

In the first game with Maiden, neither
team showed very much form, and the game
was slow and uninteresting as a whole.
Maiden started. off the scoring with a

}|goal by Runer, but Davidson soon chalked

up six points and a safe lead which they
held the rest of the half which ended with
the score 19-6 in their favor. The second
half went very much as the first, Davidson
out-playing and out-guessing their less ex-
perienced opponents.

For Davidson, the shooting and floor work
of Johnson and Thompson were big factors
in the victory, while Heabern, at .center,
showed the best form for the visitors.

CONCORD GAME

In the second game with Concord, the con-
test was close and exciting from the tip-off.

Both teams played good basket-ball and
the outcome of the game was in doubt until
the final whistle blew.

Concord began the scoring in the first two
minutes of play by caging three points. Da-
vidson soon came from behind and scored
two field goals in close succession. ‘The
score see-sawed back and forth during the
first quarter, but a rally by Davidson gave
them a four-point lead at the end of the first
half.

The Concord team came back in the sec-
ond half and nearly tied the score, but the
guarding of Thompson and Grey seemed too
much for the visitors, and when the final
whistle blew, the score stood 24-18 in Da-
vidson’s favor.

The playing of Johnson at forward, who
scored 12 of his team’s points was nothing
short of sensational. Bohannon and McCon-
nell also played good basket-ball.

1D.
2B

FORMER DAVIDSON ATHLETE
(Continued from Page 1)

takes up the work and comes to Davidson
with three highly successful years of coach-
ing experience behind him. On the gridiron

he has coached the wing men and each

WRESTLING TEAM FAST
ROUNDING INTO SHAPE

Wrestling is well under way, coached by
Harry Bangle from Charlotte and led by
Captain Cromartie, Davidson's grapplers are
sure to be a stumbling block in Trinity’s’
way on the 23rd, and Carolina’s on the 24th
of this month, Coach Bangle has developed
many good wrestlers and in his day was for
four years the champion of the Navy. He
has yet to be thrown. |

At Trinity there is one man who wrestles
in three classes. He won the light-heavy
weight title in the Carolina Olympic last
year. Trinity has already defeated Carolina
and looms up as the strongest team in the
Old North State.

Carolina’s star is Poindexter, who won
the heavyweight title in the Carolina Olym-
pic. He. was thrown last summer at Mon-
treat by Lindawood, who is Davidson’s
heavyweight this year, having came here
from McCollie.

Both Trinity and Carolina are to be en-
countered on their mats and there is a real
stiff proposition for the Wildcats to face.
Davidson’s material is very good, having of
last year experience White, Patterson, Kim-
sey, Cochran and. Cromartie. In addition to
these is Selserfi‘of the Georgia Tech squad
of last year, and Harry Lindawood.

year a V. P. I. end has been selected on the

mythical South-Atlantic eleven, With both
Wildcat ends back under ‘the tutelage of
Younger, no team in the State should have

a better defensive or offensive ‘combination
on the flanks. This same pair of Wildcat
ends threw back the Tech runners for loss
after loss last fall and the strong showing
of the Red and Black against the Virginians
was due largely to their work.

The Wildcats, since the departure of Bill
Fetzer have often been critized for their
lack of aggressiveness, The defense has
been a stone wall, but the vital spark was
lacking on the offense. Younger, himself
one of the most aggressive players on the
gridiron, has’ the Phi of imparting the,
fight to his men and of drilling into them a
versatile and strong attack.

As a basket-ball coach, Younger turned
out a team which was regarded last year as |
the best claimant for South-Atlantic honors.
At the present time the interest in basket- |
ball is increasing. steadily and there has
never been more or better material. The
Wilcats this season are one of the most
formidable machines in the State and few
men will be lost by graduation,

Younger also,knows the diamond pastime
from the first word to the last, He appears |
in Davidson this spring as coach of the
Techmen and the Wildcats will have a hard
tussle to win.

All in all, no selection could have been)
more popular with the students and though
realizing the disadvantages under which a
coach labors during his first season, every,
Wildcat supporter is looking forward to the
coming season as a time for revenge for |
some if the defeats suffered lately. |

Coach Younger hails from Lynchburg, Va.|
From the Lynchburg High School he went)
to Fishburne where Bill Fetzer was coaching. |
When his coach came to Davidson in the}
fall of 1915 he followed him and made a)
remarkable athletic record during his first |
year, |

“Monk” is the only athlete who has ever |
succeeded in making a letter in four branches |
of sport at Davidson. His performance is|
all the more noteworthy because he accom- |
plished this feat during his freshman year. |
He played end on the football team, being
picked unanimously for an all-State berth
and prominently mentioned for all-South. |
Atlantic honors, He played guard on the,
basket-ball team and made his track mono-
gram by, winning the high jump.

The following year Younger went to V. P.
I. where he starred in football, basket-ball
and baseball. During his stay at Virginia
Tech he was considered one,of the best ends |
in the South. Walter Camp on seeing
Younger perform against Yale, came out on
the field and complimented him saying that |
Younger was the most aggressive end he
had ever seen play on a Southern team.

In 1917, Younger joined the University of |
Virginia Amublance Unit and saw 17 months |
service overseas, Returning in 1919, he be- |
came Athletic Director at Hampden-Sidney |
College and turned out some remarkably fine |
teams. a

The following year he was called to V. P.
I. to be an assistant on the gridiron and the

head coach of basket-ball and baseball.
In accepting the ‘position as head coach at

DH

Gr

wearing, just notice this:

long time.

On Your Way Throug
A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now

If they fit well at just three spote—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”’

GREENSBORO, N. C.

See how well

3

AIK

KExe=

Davidson, Coach Younger said: “I cannot
resist the call of my old Alma Mater, and
will report September 1 to give my best
in the upbuilding of the thin red line.”

STUDENTS CHECK FIRE
BY VALIANT EFFORTS

‘The Red Destroyer has once again knocked
at the town gates, this time in the partial
destruction of the home of Dr. J. M. Mc-
Connell. ‘The fire was discovered about 11
o'clock Monday morning and had gained
considerable headway in and around the fur-
nace chimney before the firefighters took a
hand. The alarm spread rapidly and quite
a number of students gathered to aid in the
saving of the contents of the house and to
endeavor to extinguish the blaze. Sete fe

The volunteer firemen within a short time
had every removable piece of furniture and
fixtures in the house rescued from the
threatening flames. Meanwhile a bucket line
had been formed and a hose from the nearby
mill connected up in an effort to control the
blaze. By means of tearing away the
shingles and placing wet blankets upon the
roof the flames were soon checked and what
promised to be quite a fire in its early
stages was confined to the roof and upper
part. of the house.

‘The damage consisted mainly of the de-
struction of the roof in the rear and of
water damage to a few rooms below. Just
how much the furniture was damaged in its
sudden removal is not know.

As is usual to such catastrophes many
heroes were brought to light and quite a
number of heroic acts took place during fire-
fighting, among which the most notable were
the removal in a decidedly careful and cau-
tious manner by Izzie Smith, the commis-
sarian, of a bottle of precious blackberry
wine, the wrenching away and subsquent
removal of radiators and the kitchen sink
by Lindermood, the rescue of a box of
oranges by Bevo Davis, and the now famous
trouser strength-test by Fresh Sinclair.

Soon after the extinguishing of the blaze
Doctor McConnell had repairers on the job
and temporary repairs were made in order
to prevent further water damage in case of
rain. The house is one of that number
owned by the college and the exact plans
in regard to final repairs are riot known just
at present. Doctor McConnell and his fam-
ily are temporarily staying at the home of
Doctor Martin. It is understood that the
loss was. fully covered by insurance.

Appreciation of the services that the stu-

|dents rendered in their efforts to save the
| house were tendered the student body' by

Doctor McConnell and Doctor Martin in
Chapel Tuesday morning. It is the general
opinion of all that what might have been a
serious fire was averted by the quick action

‘of the students.

‘GEORGIA CLUB ENJOYS

GET-TOGETHER MEETING

On Wednesday night, January 31, at the
Trough, 29 Georgia Crackers and two Tar
Heels seated themselves at one of the big-
gest and most attractive feeds ever held on
Davidson’s campus and the best get-together
feed ever enjoyed by the Georgia ‘Club.
The purpose of the feed and the business
meeting that followed was to lay plans for
the fulfillment of the club’s slogan: “One
hundred Crackers at Davidson in 1923-1924.”

After the luscious spread, which was pre-
pared by Miss Rosa Shumaker in her usual
fine style, the club welcomed Harry Fraser,
brother of Tom Fraser and a Davidson
alumnus, who expressed his pleasure of being
on the hill once more. He touched on his
college experiences on and off the hill. After
his address, the assemblage turned its atten-
tion to the sagacious humor of Simryl Bry-
ant, the silent wit of Piggy Martin, and the
originality of C. F. Wildman.

After such a rare combination of treats,
Toastmaster Arnett Gamble presented the
more serious side of the meeting. He pre-
sented Mr. Jackson, the college treasurer,
who told of the plans for the Davidson ad-
vertisement campaign to be waged during
the next few months.

The other Tar Heel, Buck Currie, then
told of the duties of the Davidson men in
helping to get a representative student body
and living up to the standards set by the
former Davidson students,

Harry Fraser then told of Chambers of
old and the need of a new and better Cham-
bers. He also told of the spirit if fellowship
that exists between the alumni of the Alma
Mater. Y

Bill Baker, president of the club, pre-
sented the campaign in Georgia, complying
with plans submitted by him, the club unani-
mously chose to select a Georgia alumnus to
act as State secretary for the movement to
bring more Georgia men to Davidson. His
duty would be to correspond with graduates
of the high schools of the State, whom the
club members will recommend.

Since we have moved into
our new store, 27 North
Tryon, you will find that we
have a more complete line
of Young Men’s Togs than

ever.

Be sure and make this
your headquarters while in

the city

Tryon Street,
Charlotte, N. C.

‘ie end Fusatehd
Clothing See

for Young

