THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF PHI BETA KAPPA
KEY VISITS GAMMA OF NORTH CAROLINA

Rev. O. N. Voorhees, D. D., Secre-
tary of United Chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa, Stops at Da-
vidson While on Tour
of Southern
Chapters.

Reverend Oscar M. Voorhees, D. D.,
of New York, secretary of the United
Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and editor
of The Phi Beta Kappa Key, visited
Davidson last Tuesday, April 24, to in-
spect the new Gamma Chapter of North
Carolina.

Mr. Voorhees is making a tour of the
chapters throughout the South Atlantic
States. His itinerary will include,
among various other universities and
colleges of note, the University of North
Carolina, the University of South Caro-
lina, the University of Georgia, Con-
verse, and Agnes Scott. He went from
Davidson to Atlanta, where he attended
an alumni meeting last Monday, April
30.

His address to the chapter was very
informal and lasted only a few minutes.
It, of course, pertained to the function-
ing of the new chapter and was of a
secret naturee. He was very favorably
impressed with its start and prophesied
great things for it.

Although Mr. Voorhees was here for
the short space of one afternoon, he was
deeply impressed by the college. He
was delighted with the Davidson spirit
and sympathized with the college for its
recent losses by fire. He thinks that
Davidson should be highly commended
for the manner in which she has re-
covered from this severe blow and he
is sure that it is the Davidson oneness
of purpose that is making her the com-
ing college of the South.

D—————.
FOUR MEN INITIATED
IN GAVEL AND FORUM

The following men have been elected
and initiated into the Gavel and Forum,
honorary forensic fraternity: A. M|.Hill-
house, L. D. Elkins, W. M. Cox and D. B.
Walthall. All four men have distin-
guished themselves at Davidson as de-
baters and orators.

The first three, Hillhouse, Elkins and
Cox composed the debating team which
defeated Trinity on April 27th in the
first intercollegiate debate ever held be-
tween Davidson and that college. The
last member of the quartet, D. B. Wal-
thall, although he has never been on the
debating team, has time and again dis-
tinguished himself in all branches of
literary society work.

Three of these men, Elkins, Cox and
Walthall won “Rep”s in the preliminary
contests held Junior Speaking and will
participate in the finals at Commence-
ment. The four men belong to literary
societies as follows: Elkins and Hillhouse,
Eumenean; Cox and Walthall, Pandeinic,

——D
GAMMA SIGMA EPILSON
ENTERTAINS VISITORS

Last Friday night at ten thirty, the
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Chemical Fra-
ternity, held their regular meeting. This
meeting was an open one and several stu-
dents of the Freshmen and Sophomore
classes, who are especially interested in
chemistry were invited to the meeting.
These were: J. L. Green and J. B. Gal-
lant of the Sophomore class, and H. S.
Shaw, S. R. Williamson, G. O. Parker,
D. Lamons, and J. M. Appleby of. the
Freshmen class.

Buchanan presided over the meeting.
R. R. Jones, a newly elected member of
the fraternity, read a humorous paper
on his impressions at his initiation. H.
H. Smith next, read a short paper on
The Discovery of the New Element, Haf-
nium. This paper was both interesting
and instructive. The next paper was
read by C. F. Wildman. His discussion
was The Atom. He showed the recent
- steps which have been made in counting
and photographing: atoms. He also set
forth a new theory on the creation of the
world. This paper was followed by live-
ly | discussion. After the program, an
* exceptionally good feed was enjoyed by
all. ; ;

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon fraternity
was organized at Davidson for the pur-
pose of stimulating interest in chemistry.
Since its organization three charters
have been granted: N. C. State, Uni-
versity of Florida, and Johns Hopkins.
A charter is soon to be granted to Au-
burn,

The faculty members of the fraternity
are: Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. O. J. Thies,
and Prof. S. M. Currie.

ee ee
REV. J. P. SMITH

TALKS ON BRAZIL

The Polity Club rendered a service to
the college in bringing here Rev. J. Porter
Smith, who has for many years been con-
nected with Christian Training Schools
in Brazil. He spoke to the student body
at Chapel, addressed Dr. McConnell’s
history class, spoke to the Volunteer Band
and lectured to a gathering of students in
the evening.

Brazil is very large, embracing 3,300,-
000 square miles, nearly half of the con-
tinent. She produces most of the world’s
tobacco, coffee, rubber and chocolate and
a/great part of the world’s cotton, sugar,
grain and meat. Her mineral wealth is
great. Gold, silver, diamonds, coal, iron,
copper and petroleum abound. Her for-
ests of cabinet-wood and other fine tim-
ber are untouched. She has the greatest
river on earth. The Amazon is navi-
gable by ocean steamers more than a
thousand miles inland.

The people of Brazil number more than
80,000,000. They fall into two classes
only, the upper, and the very low. Cus-
tom has prevented the development of a
middle class. Thus Brazil is robbed of
the strongest possible element in her pop-
ulation. Approximately 70% of the peo-
ple are wretchedly ignorant, because
schools are totally lacking in the interior
districts.

Educational freaks of custom have
made a man of even small learning, an
object of reveration among the ignorant
who swarm in the country. In Brazil,
while advantages can be had, a college
degree is much more easily earned than
in our country. Besides, a man who can
boast as much as a diligent high school
graduate here, is entitled to be called

“Doctor.”

This mistake has made abuses possible
and, indeed, almost unavoidable. Men
who can read, write and speak in public
can claim attention, and be elected to of-
fice. Thus, a group of inefficients and
grafters have seized the power. Of
course they administer affairs to suit
themselves.

The people cling tenaciously to their
ancient customs. They object bitterly
to northern ideas and changes. They
can accept improvements, and do so, but
they always object to the strange manner-
isms of Americans.

Formality is the rule, and courtesy the
established principle in Brazil. He who
would succeed there must reconsider his
manners, and perhaps, reconstruct them.

Brazil is a great country; she presents
great opportunities. for development.
The people, though their standards are
different, are eager and able to learn. The
pressing need is for men of Christian
character, and trained faculties, who can
and will put time, effort, and sympathy
into the task of making her what she can
be.

D.

PHYSICS FRAT. DISCUSSES
HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER

The regular bi-monthly meeting of
Sigma Pi Sigma, the Physics fraternity,
was held in the Physics Classroom on last
Monday night, April 22. Officers for
the ensuing year were installed. A pa-
per entitled, Hydro-electric Development
at Niagara Falls, was then read by N. R.
Currie. Prof. L. M. Currie then gave
some interesting points about Canadian
developments along this line.

The Radio outfit which was recently
installed by the fraternity is now in
complete working order and is giving the

4 dest of results.

SOCIETIES z

Query for Week.

Resolved, That the United States
should join the World Court as proposed
by President Harding to the Senate.

Pandeinic Society.

Affirmative: O. J. Allison and J. H.
Grey.

Negative: G. E. Weeks and W. H.
Moore.

The house and the judges decided in
favor of the affirmative.

It was announced that the Seniors of
the four literary societies had elected a
member of the Pandeinic Society, s-
comb Sorrells, to be valedictorian at the
joint commencement. meeting of the so-
cieties.

Eumenean Society.

Affirmative: P. M. Patterson and T. C.
Barr.

Negative: L. H. Briggs and F. R. Hud-
son.

The decision of the house on the merits
of the question was in favor of the affir-
mative, but the judges gave their decis-
ion for the negative.

An oration was given by W. J. Cooper
on the purpose of the Reserve Officers
Training Corps and the reasons that
every student should consider carefully
before he decides not to continue his R.
O. T. C. course.

Metrophilian Society.

The regular program of the society
was not given this week because of the
election of officers. The results of the
elections were as follows: President, W.
Z. Bradford, Vice-President, W. M.
Gracey, Secretary, H. C. Lawson, Treas-
urer, D. B. Wharton, First Critic, R. L.
Price, Second Critic, J. E. Singletary,
First Supervisor, R. B. Parker, Second
Supervisor, N. C. MacLeod, Debating
Council Representative, C, E. Hodgin.

GEESSESSUNES  p VEEP ESU

FROM THE PLATFORM

For fifteen years Davidson has been
represented in the forensic field. During
this decade and a half the Presbyterians
have annexed a total of twenty victories,
ten losses being credited to the other
side of the ledger.

Never has a Wildcat forensic team
suffered defeat on the local platform. In
1918 Roanoke College was defeated; in
1919 Washington and Lee tasted the same
bitter cup; in 1920 Randolph-Macon lost
by a 5-0 decision; and'last week the trio
from Trinity died fighting against the
Cox-Hillhouse-Elkins combination. the
judges’ decision favoring the Davidson-
ians by a 3-0 margin.

Professor Wagner, head of the public
speaking department, was the man be-
hind the fire works in last Friday night’s
contest. He has worked consistently
with the team and his contribution blos-
somed into fruit. Doctors Currie, Lingle
and J. M. McConnell were also interested
in the compilation of material for the
fray.

Plans are already being made for the
debating program for next year. Three
feature debates is the aim of ‘the Debat-
ing Council.

There is a possibility that the Fresh-
men will be given an opportunity to exer-
cise their grey matter and their lungs
next year. Agitation on the campus fa-
vors a freshman debating team, and sev-
eral intercollegiate contests, for the
training of varsity spéakers. :

The best wishes of Davidson go with
the Trinity men as they face the remain-
der of their debating schedule for the
year.

Pe EEESESENS » Yow eck aces

Speaking of the rage for golf, the Sil-
ent Partner expresses it well in poetry:
“Who’s the stranger, mother dear?

Look! he knows us! ain’t he queer?”
“Hush, my own! don’t talk so wild.

That’s your father, dearest child!”
“He’s my father! no such thing.

Father died you know, last spring!”
“Father didn’t die you dub!

Father joined a golfing club,

But they closed the club so he,

@as no place to go you see!

No place left for him to roam,

That is why he’s coming home.
Kiss him! he won’t bite you child

All these golfing guys look wild!”

TENTATIVE PLANS MADE
FOR COMMENCEMENT

With examinations only three weeks
off, commencement looms directly after
them. All plans are about complete.

The baccalaureate sermon is to be
preached by Rev. John M. Vander Muelen,
D. D., on Sunday morning, June 3. Dr.
Vander Muelen is the president of Louis-
ville Seminary, and is one of the most
prominent preachers in the South today.
Sunday night, Doctor McLauchlin will
preach the annual sermon before the Y.
M. C. A.

Monday afternoon the Senior Class day
exercises are to be held, and Monday
night the Dramatic Club will give two
one-act plays. Of these, one is: “Stur-
geon’s Head Inn.” The setting is in
North and South Carolina during the
Revolutionary War period. It was writ-
ten by W. J. Cooper, and consists of
three scenes—one act. The second play
was written by Doctor Erwin, and is
called. “Veterans.” Practice for both
plays commences this week. After the
presentation of the play on Monday
night, the annual “book-burning” will be
staged.

Tuesday, June 5, the Board of Trustees
will meet at nine-thirty. At twelve-
thirty, the Annual Literary Address will
be delivered. Tuesday night, the Junior
Oratorical Contest will be held. The
contest will be followed by joint Literary
Society Graduation exercises. The de-
bating medals and other trophies will be
delivered. This will be followed by a
moonlight reception on the campus.

Wednesday morning will complete the
commencement exercises. The Senior
Oratorical contest will be held. J. W.
Baldwin, and F, S. Johnston of the Phil-
anthropic Society, and W. H. Moore, and
W. A. Gamble, of the Pandeinic Society,
will be the speakers. The graduation ex-
ercises and presentation of Diplomas will
complete the program.

asaeaeeeses| ) ) meee

BASEBALL AS SHE IS: SPOKE

Who dares deny that baseball has a
particular argot all its own? Even with
the multitude of other sports that test
the sports writers vocabulary, he needs
must reserve his best supply for the all-
absorbing and national sport of baseball.
Here the titanic disjointing and decapi-
tating of the King’s English is at its
best. Every season brings on those who
believe that they can revolutionize the
baseball world with their own stock of
adjectives and such that put the descrip-
tion and power into the grand old game.

A good writer who knew nothing of
the game and less of those misapplied
metaphorisms we are wont to call ‘slang,’
would touch up an incident of the game
in this manner: The game between the
two opposing factions was extremely
close and both sides are cheering their
individual players. There were two out
when Jim Murphy took his stand and
missed the three balls that were thrown
to him which he was supposed to hit.
This action on the part of Mr. Murphy
lost the game.

Does the modernist sports pen pusher
describe his side of the game in such a4
manner? By no means. He would
probably hit it up like this: “In the ninth
stanza of the fray, ‘Steelarm’ Murphy
was at bat after Hobbs had singled to
first, next man grounding to third, doubl-
ing the outs. ‘Two outs’ warbled the
umpire and Steelarm grasped the old
willow and ambled out to the old gutta-
percha. The pitcher gathered in the ap-
ple and scaled the hillock out in the in-
ner garden. He wiggled his flipping fin
and let go one that was too wide. The
next pill hugged the plate and the tally
was one and. One more down the alley
and Steelarm manipulated his war club.
The third and last sailer was right down
the center and with a mighty clout,
Steelarm booted it out to the far pas-
ture. He cavorts around the flour sacks
till he came in home on the slide with
the pill at his heels. One score and the
battle was over.”

T).

Boys and girls may differ in some ways

+ but they certainty do correspond.

SOCIETIES WILL HAVE
JOINT, COMMENCEMENT

What promises to rival Junior speak-
ing, compressed into one gala night, is the
graduation exercises of the four literary
societies to be held Tuesday, June 5, the
third day of Commencement. On that
evening the societies will meet together
in the auditorium of Shearer Hall.

The exercises will be opened by the
Junior Oratorical Contest. Interest is
running high in this one contest alone,
and the preparation of the four contest-
ants promises an excellent set of speech-
es. Tradition has long led every Junior
to look forward to appearing on such a
program as orator from his society, and
the chosen men feel their responsibility
and privilege in upholding class and so-
ciety honor on that night. As determin-
ed by recent preliminary contests, the
orators will be: W. M. Cox, Pandeinic;
L. D. Elkins, Eumenean; D. B. Walthall,
Pandeinic; R. H. Smith, Eumenean.

Following these speeches, the program
will be given over to the presentation of
medals and diplomas. These medals are
individual trophies won by members of
the different societies in such contests
as the Fresh-Soph Declamation, Fresh-
Soph Debate, Junior-Senior Debate, and
Junior Oratorical Contests. They will
be presented by some alumnus of the
society, who will also present diplomas to
the graduating members. These grad-
uating members are such members as
have received twenty or more credits
by appearing upon the society programs.
The diplomas are rewards well worth
working for, and to the student of public
speaking and debating they represent a
high award.

The next number will be the most im-
pressive one on the program. The vale-
dictorian, chosen from the combined
membership of the four societies, will
deliver his address, concluding it with a
presentation of a gavel, tied with the col-
ors of the several societies, to a recipient
who will accept it with the duties and re-
sponsibilities it represents, in the name
of the four organizations. The vafedic-
torian for this occasion will be G. B. Sor-
rells, from the Pandeinic Society, and he
will present the emblem to J. I. Smith of
the Eumenean Society.

This will conclude the pre-arranged
program and the meeting will be thrown
open for talks and discussion by alumni
members, of whom quite a number are ex-
pected to be present.

Every alumnus should come prepared
on just a larger scale, and to get all the
to join in one of the old time bull sessions
on just a larger scale, and get all the
pleasure out of it possible.

Immediately following the exercises in
the Hall, the college and its visitors will
become the guests of the literary socie-
ties, who in unison with the Senior Class
will present a lawn entertainment. The
whole grounds will be ablaze with lights.

To be sure that the literary societies
can demonstrate to the students just what
success they can reach on occasions like
this, they are extending invitations, not
only to their own members to stay but
to every person in college, to every alum-
nus, and to every possible visitor, that
they may remember this night and at-
tend it ‘en masse.”

T).

SOME MACHINE

“IT watched a wonderful machine work
this morning.”

“And how does it work,” asked we.

“Well,” was the reply, “by means of a
pedal attachment, a fulcrumed lever con-
verts a vertical reciprocating motion
into a circular movement. The princi-
pal part of the machine is a huge disk
that revolves in a vertical plane. Power
is applied thru the axis of the disk and
work is done on the periphery and the
hardest substance, by mere impact may
be reduced to any shape.”

“What is this wonderfll machine?” we
asked.

“A grindstone,” was the reply.

——_D—____

“T'll bite, what is it?” said the mosqui-

to as he lit on the wax model.

