THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

sport is unknown to quite a few and interest-
ing to all.

from General Smuts, “Humanity has struck
its tents and once again is on the march.”

DOPE MAKES GENERAL .CON-
FLICTING ASSERTIONS

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON

Gamma Sigma Epilson, National
Honorary Chemical Fraternity, at its
regular meeting Friday night elected to
membership the following men: J. B.
Gallant, A. M. Sample, J. E. Single-
tary and J. N. Williams. The election
was held in the fraternity’s hall in the
Martin Chemical Laboratory Building.

To be elected into membership in
the Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a student
must have achieved eminence in the
chemical line of college activities, both
from a point of view of scholastic
grades and personal endeavor.

The following are the members of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon in the David-
son student body: G. M. Ford, Marion
Murray, R. R. Jones, W. M. Cox and
W. Z. Bradford, all members of the
Senior Class and F, C. Thames, a
postgraduate. Membership among the
faculty includes Dr. H. B. Arbuckle,
head of the Chemistry Department
and Mr. O. J. Thies, Jr., Instructor in
chemistry.

All county and town officials in Mecklen-
burg and Iredell Counties have been espe- |
cially invited and are expected to turn out
almost unanimously. The civic organizations
of a number of towns have been asked to ap- | have had brass enough to win from an up-
pear as such organizations and will do much | perclass basketball team. The fresh defeated
t« encourage support of the celebration. But | the Juniors last Friday night by the score of
chiefly, the public at large is urged to come | 26 to 25. This game will be remembered by
and’ from the interest already manifested it | those who saw it for some time on account of
is evident that the event will be a howling | its having three extra playig periods attach-
success.

Newspaper cditors all over the state are} There was’ more cheering going on by the
giving publicity freely, and the publicity com- | freshmen than has been seen in many a day.
mittee, with Mr. J. P. Williams as chairman, | The crowd mostly were: for the fresh any-
are almost assuring a success in the bountiful | way and the added volume of the whole
advertising they are affording the event.| freshman class made it sound like a foot-
Hand bills ar being distributed in a number | hall game.
of places, signs are appearing on the backs} At the end of the regular playing period,
of the numerous busses operating in this dig-| the score stood 23 to 23. Another playing
trict, and everybody is being told of the gala | period of five minutes was announced and so
day in some-way. Indications are that the | the two te
crowd cannot but gather, granting that the | would win, Beall shot a goal to start things
weather is fair. ,off with and then just before the whistle

Mr. Van Sant, as chairman of the grounds | pew, Pat McNair put one through the ring.
and decoration committee, promises to give) This made another period necessary so they
the affair a festival appearance in the various | played five more minutes. This time neither
decorations he is planning. Archways will! team scored so they played five more min-
be placed over the roads entering Davidson | utes, (
and general holiday decorations will be put |

FRESH NOSE OUT JUNIORS

For the first time in years the freshmen

ams proceeded to see which. one

‘aptain Fawcette put a free shot in

GOV. MORRISON TO ADDRESS
CROWD

(Continued from page 1) |
will be followed by a concert by a visiting |
band. The Fort Bragg Band has been invited |
to fill the second number on the program, but |
it is not definitely known whether they will |
be able to appear or not. Immediately after |
these concerts, the Davidson College R. O. |
T. C. unit will pass in review before Gov-
ernor Morrison and other notables of the
State.

Dinner on the grounds will be next in or-
der. Davidson College will honor at a spe-
cial luncheon the out-of-town guests and
speakers, and Davidson's spacious campus
will be thrown open for the visiting crowds
who will bring lunches and spread them in
picnic style. It is planned to serve coffee
free.

Immediately after dinner the speaking will
take place, as described above. The after-
noon will be thrown open to other events,
chiefly athletic. Dr. Arbuckle, Chairman of
the Athletic Committee, has about completed
plans for a football and polo game. His
first efforts were. to secure Charlotte and
Statesville high school teams for their an-
nual clash, but their schedule had already
been too definitely arranged. Present indi-
cations are that the local high school will
meet either the Greensboro, Hickory or Gas-
tonia high school team. The game should
be a good exhibition of football, for the local
outfit is playing a good brand of ball this
season,

The Athletic Committee plans as the clos-
ing event of the day a polo game. While
this feature cannot be defintely announced at
this writing, it is practically certain that the
game will be played a mile from Davidson,
on Captain Reid Moarrison’s farm. A good
game of this newly popular sport would be
the feature of the athletic program, as the

The Man

}tewn decorations, which. should be elaborate

from the 17 foot line and the game was won
for the fresh.

| The game was on the whole one of the
in their extent, as the Davidson business | fastest of the inter-class type that has ever
contributed freely to a decora- | teen seen here. The Freshmen wanted to
Concessions have already been | show the Juniors how good they were but

up. Mr. Ryan will have charge of the up-

houses have
‘ion fund,

let for a number of lunch and cold drink | the Juniors refused to be shown, and so a
booths. Davidson bids fair to resemble, ii

sete | fast, hard fought game proceeded to develop.

its festive costume,
the crowd that gathers should have no less | unpleasant, and that was the fact that no
fun than is possible before the sawdust | joss than four men were put out of the game
EBGIERD: Ae for personal fouls, Both sides played ex-
There is no way of estimating the crowd | cetfent ball and there was good team work

ed after the regular periods had finished. |

a gigantic circus, a1 | There was only one feature that proved to be |

}

| With the season a little over half through
| Davidson stands with a 50-50 basis of games
won and lost. The Wildcats have won three
and lost three. Elon, P. C. and Citadel fell.

Elon seems to have the best of the smaller
college teams in the state, having lost only
to Davidson in the first game of the season.

P. C. lost in one of the best games of the
year to the Wildcats, 3 to 0. ‘The Blue
| Stockings beat U. of S. C. 7 to 3. South
Carolina held Clemson to a 7 to 6 score.
| This gives Davidson a three-point margin
on Clemson. Although the Tech boys have
a much heavier club, the Wildcats are rely-
ing on that pld fighting spirit and their
strong defense to carry them over the South
! Carolinians.

| V. P. I. beat Davidson 7 to 0 on an inter- |

| cepted pass. It was a game featured by the
| great defensive work of the Wildcats. The
| Gobblers lost most of their feathers in this

V. P. I. defeated Maryland 16 to 7.
and beat Carolina the following Sat-
urday 14 to 0. This gives Davidson a 21-
| point margin over Carolina. Dope is often
|upset, however, and we are not relying on
that to beat Carolina.

| game.
| Maryl

Not wholly recovered from the terrible
| battle of the Saturday before with V. P. I.,
| Davidson played rather ragged football for
{three quarters of the game with Citadel,
| winning by a 7 to 0 score.. The South Caro-
'linians played a great game of football, giv-
ling the Davidson defense something to think
! about.

Then came the downfall of the Wildcats.
| Wake Forest won 6 to 0.. They deserved to
|win, as they gained three times as much
|ground as the Davidson warriors, The fea-
jtures of the game were the wonderful playing

that will gather, but with fair weather Da-
vidson will certainly be filled to the cver-
flowing. High Point, in a similar cele ration,
featuring a pageant and all-day and ali-nighit
celebration, attracted twenty thousand, ard
Davidson should have no less than half this
number. Verily, the keep-off-the-grass signs
will have to be removed and the city limits
extended.

Everything points to the most gigantic
celebration and to the “biggest” day cver
witnessed in the history of Ole Davidson.

TOM SKEYHILL

(Continued from page 7)
to learn how to co-operate with God and
bettér the world.” These are the kind of
scientists the world wants today.

“The fifth thought of the young men of
Europe is that of internationalism. They
believe that the new internationalism must” be
cultural rather than a legal, or political, in-
ternationalism. The internationalism must
grow out of the exchange of ideas, lectures,
literature and education. They also want an
internationalism that will be in accord with
true nationalism.”

In conclusion, Mr. Skeyhill said that in
these thoughts of the young men he finds a
new era bursting forth—a new renaissance.
In ending his speech, he used a quotation

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK |

Inthe 15th Row
Paid The

Same Price

HERE’S alwaysan
advantage in being
forehanded—

the man in the 15th row
atthe theatre paid the
same price for his ticket
as the man in the third—

foresight rewarded itself, that’

s all.

Same theory applies to an overcoat—there. aré a lot of

good reasons for buying yours

early.

The December price will be the same as the October price

—but the assortment will be

broken and the chance to get

exactly what you want will be less.

Today, our assortment of

Par-Kerry overcoats tailored at

Fashion Park is complete—exactly the model and fabric you

want is included.

7-7:

|and sending them back down the court.

| f ‘les s " 1 ”) ot’
all around. The Freshmen had a system of SER Sa rats et neva
passing that seemed to bewilder the Juniors, : y ne Witaga camer

lof Shepherd for Davidson, who time after

but they could not shoot goals after they had | |. i
F . time put the ball out of danger, averaging
carried the ball under the goal, while the |
r 40 yards.

; ; ; | well ove
Juniors seemingly could shoot any time they | Pena a 5
TER ae) The following Wednesday saw Furman
There were no outstanding players on eith- jad mates 3 CERI ITE SU; CO10 defeat to'Da
ab teain, ‘each ean atayihe enone dian The | Vidson. Just why they won is due to the
4 é t six first-stri
guards seemed to be the best men on both | fet Hi fabs eae Takei Deeks San a4
teams. Captain Morrison of the Juniors an Aig first haleahed ea decaean ee
played a splendid game, while Kiser for the Sin ll rm f (eh h F ie We
fresh was very good at breaking up passes | ive ee hath She Se ee Rte tene
| Faison played a great game on his end.
N. C. State and Davidson are rated about
jeven, although Tech has*a much heavier
Juniors (25) | team. Nothing but pure fight will win that
Patrick (1) | game,

The score:
Freshmen (26)
Sinipson (4)

R. F. | One way we are doped to beat Trinity 28
Beallit(4)oeces case aes Lindley (4) |
L. F. |
Fawcette (6) ~....----___-- McNair (12) |
, (C)
Witt (2) sos owns Morrison (5)
L. G.
G86 (6) sas 25 See et onli Price
R. G.

Substitutes :—Fresh: Groover for Kiser,
Kiser for Simpson, Anderson for Groover,
Simpson for Kiser, Groover for Beall. Jun-
iors: Brice for Patrick, Patrick for Brice,
Trotter for Lindley, Oeland for Patrick,
Lindley for Oeland, Matthews for Trotter,
Wharton for Morrison.

Weare showing a com
Suits, Hats and Furni
tive prices. Comeina

9
NEW-CONSTITURION CHOSEN LOC NOMEN SHAN

BY AESCULAPEAN CLUB

and Materials at

At the last meeting of the Aesculapian
Club, on October 25th, about 20 members
were present to hear a good program,
and to discuss matters of business. The
meeting was held in the biology labora-
tory, and was presided over by the pres-
ident, R. R. Jones. The election of a new
secretary in the place of Howell, who
has recently been compelled to withdraw
from college, was the first matter of
business to be taken up. J. E. Singletary
was unanimously chosen to fill the place.
The next matter of business was the re-
port of the constitutional committee who
are framing a new constitution for the
club. This was read and adopted.

After the business meeting, the club
was turned over to the chairman of the
program committee, A. P. Hudgins. The
first speaker was “Bevo” Davis, who
made an instructive and interesting talk
on the “Influence of Biology in Med-
icine.” “Bevo” spent the summer at the
University of Chicago, studying biology
with its relation to medicine, and so
could speak from first-hand information.

The next speaker was Appleby, on “In-
sulin, the new treatment for diabetes.
This substance was discovered by Dr.
Bantling, of Toronto University. Some
of its powers, and the nature of the dis-
ease were discussed.

Singletary closed the program with a
forceful. description “of cancer, and its
present-day treatment.

Besides the regular members, there
were several Freshmen present, all of

New Fall Hats in Sna
$2.95, $3.95,

collars.

Silk and Knit Ties, ne
colors.

MEN’S UN

Men’s medium weight

Men’s silk sox

whom were pre-medical students.

GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL

The Davidson College Glee Club
has been thoroughly organized for the
term’s work, and the program to be
used on the fall tour has been prac-
tically completed, according to Ted
Jones leader and president of the or-
ganization.

The club in its personnel includes
twenty-five men, as: follows:

First Tenors: Watt McCain, C. V.
Brown, W. A. McClain, B. T. Cray-
ton, H. M. Alexander and F. R. Hud-
son.

Second Tenors: O. J. Allison, J.
W. Simpson, F. R. Montgomery, W.
je H. Crane, M. C. Davis and J. D.
|S McRae.

First Bases:, W. Ted Jones, J. H.
Patton, A. M. Martin, J. R. Earnest,
D. G. Wilson and J. I. Groover.

Second Basés: L. D. Elkins, G. R.
Dupuy, J. L. Green, J. R. Maxwell,
T. C. Barr, B. F. Earnest.

Accompanist, W. W. Purdy.

The club will also carry an eleven
piece symphony orchestra, a six picce
jazz orchestra, and a five piece string
orchestra. The three orchestras have
played with the club for two years and
their contributions to the program of
the club will be valuable.

points and another way they are doped to
frock us 14 points. The Wildcats are aching
for revenge for last year’s defeat. It prom-
ises to be one of the hardest fought games
of the season.

Miss Nina Holt White, of Converse Col-
lege, spent several days with her mother,
Mrs. Olive White. Mrs. White has just
moved into her new home on Academy street.

WHEN ri MOORESVILLE
Visit

Geo.C. Goodman & Co.

Draggists

Soda Candy

Cigars
Student Supplies

Cigarettes

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

plete line College Boys’
shing Goods at attrac-
nd see what wonderful

values we have to offer.

D-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus and. Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50
NEW FELT HATS

$4.0

4.9

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

98c, $1.50,
MEN’S TIES

Shapes and Patterns
5, and $7.00

and $2.00

w shapes and beautiful

48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

DERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes

48c, 63c, 98c

unionsuits

‘98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors

25c and.35c
48c, 85c, $1.00

