e

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

aa Soomamud
rT

=

| | Saar comZoo
|

FLAKE LAIRD

A most vital cog in the Wildcat basket-
ball this year is Flake Laird. In games to
date, we find that his playing shows the
steady-fight that counts so much with a real
team like the Fighting Devils. He has cer-
tainly made opponents look to their laurels

during the present campaign.

Flake comes from Decatur, Ga., the home
He

of many a loyal son of Davidson.

prepped at the University school for boys,
in Atlanta, where he gained fame on grid-
iroh, cage court, and diamond. Being se-
lected for all-State and _all-South Atlantic
prep teams is indeed an honor, but honors
never affected Flake, for his playing was
always characterized by fight and enthusi-
asm. Not content with being all-State full-
back in football and all-South Atlantic for-
ward in basket-ball, Flake tackled baseball
and came out a sure enough, matter-of-fact,
pitcher and infielder.

Just as was expected, Red is living up to
his reputatiory and great things are ex-
pected of him during his college career.

D.

COLLEGE MAGAZINE HAS
SPECIAL NEW FEATURES

The inevitable has come to pass; at last
it has come. The first semester issue of the
Davidson College Magazine has appeared.
Its excellent short stories, its classic essays
and its pregnant humor are nectar and am-
brosia to the literary magnets of the hill.

It can be said in all truthfulness and with
sound judgment that this issue is the best
that has been published since the advent of
the members of the present student body.

The size of the pages has been reduced,
while the number of pages has been in-
creased. It has 44 pages, none of which are
advertising. It has a true literary appear-

THE

\

Central Cafeteria ..
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

Uccocecece0ec—000c— coc 0c0c— 000

SEGUE SEEEEREEESSSeEEEES
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” #

SPORTING GOODS

$ Basketball, Tennis, Baseball &

goods. We sell the Spalding, |
Reach and Wright & Ditson §
We have the exclusive §
agency for A. G. Spalding &
Bros.

B goods,

Rackets Restrung by an Expert

ATHLETICS

DIXIE DOPE

By W. F. GALAWAY

The past week was a busy one in North
Carolina basket-ball circles with the con-
tinued victories of Carolina and Wake For-
est setting the pace for the other State teams.
The Baptists were victorious in all three con-
tests last week, though none of them were
walkaways; Guilford falling. a victim, 32-22;
the Wildcats going under by the foul line
route, 29-24; and N. C. State furnishing the
entertainment in a corking week-end exhibi-
tion, ‘24-22. The three recent wins give
Wake Forest the count in 10 out of 12
collegiate games.

As an anti-climax to a successful trip
through North Carolina and Virginia, the
Trinity quint lost a second contest to Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill, 34-30. On the Virginia
trip six games were won out of seven played.
Davidson, Statesville Legion, V. P. I., Rich-
mond, Lynchburg College and Lynchburg
Elks coming out on the short ends, while
Virginia was the victor in a terrific battle by
a three-point margin. The V. P. I. contest
that the Methodist won, 34-33, was one of
the high-lights of the trip.

Davidson’s unlucky trip through the State
served to show the Wildcats all their weak-
nesses and get them tuned up for the games
still to come.

The week was one of upsets in the South.
Alabama, after winning 15 straight games,
was defeated by Tech 39-35, and by Birm-
ingham A. C, 28-20. ‘Tech, in turn, was
beaten by Chattanooga, 41-29, showing con-
clusively that Chattanooga will be a danger-
ous foe in the tournament.

Georgia had a couple of off nights but
managed to partly redeem themselves for
both mishaps. Auburn defeated the Bull
Dogs 45-16, but the next night Georgia jour-|
neyed to Atlanta and downed the A. A. C.
34-30. Later in the week Mercer defeated
Georgia 31-11, only to be nosed out the
following night 29-28 in a hear-raising game
that almost ended in a riot. Mercer and
Vanderbilt divided a couple of close ones
and separated with Mercer one point to the
good on the exchange but not at all sure
what will happen if they meet Vandy again
in Atlanta.

The victories of the Birmingham Athletic
Club over Auburn, Alabama: and Georgia
Tech seem to indicate that the Alabama City
has ousted Atlanta of her claim of previous
years to the best team in Dixie.

In South Carolina, Newberry is still on
top of the head. After losing to Furman in
a heart-breaking game and barely defeating
the rejuvenated Wofford Terriers in Spar-
tanburg 19-18, the Indians turned around and
ran away from Furman in a return game 28+
12, and the next night slaughtered P. C. .55-
14. When the Newberry second team was
sent in the score was 36-2,

South Carolina had a hard time in Vir-

S| ginia losing to W. and 1. 26-19, and to

V. M. I. 24-9. W. and L. later defeated
V. P. I. 29-28 The Takola quint, of Rich-
mond, defeated the Lynchburg Elks for the
State non-collegiate championship.

ance which the Davidson College Magazine
has heretofore’ lacked.

In the current issue of the magazine there
are seven poems, five stories, two essays and
the usual editorials; exchanges, etc. The

S| prose poems found in this issue are a new
mitype for the Davidson College Magazine.

There are contributions by a number of

et
a |

On Your Way Through |
A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now

-

MAT ENTHUSIASTS MEET
TRINITY AND CAROLINA
Captain Cromartie,

eral, or

conspicuously have been persistenly ‘at it
and under the coaching of Harry Bangle,
one-time professional wrestler, are ready

ponents,

weight and ability are: Lindamood, heavy-

129-pound class and Selser, 119-pound class.

job.
ful meets already this year, having defeated
Carolina by a good margin, and she is anxi-
ous to do better than beat Davidson by two
points as she did last year. Midget of
Trinity is their mainstay. Linddmood will
have a nice job on his hands when he steps
on the square with Midget.

After meeting Trinity in Durham Wednes-
day night, the team meets Carolina at Chapel
Hill Thursday night. If the Trinity meet
hasn’t cost too dearly, the Davidson group
of grapplers should be able to handle Caro-
lina the next night. The slogan seems to be
“Beat Trinity and have Carolina scared to
defeat.”

This year the mat aggregation is unusually
strong. All on the team, except Lindamood
and Selser, held places on the team last year
and showed up well. Lindamood is believed,
by all who have seen him work out, to be
able to take care of the man in his weight,
and in view of the fact that he meets Poin-
dexter at. Carolina, last year’s State cham-
pion, who he threw last summer, success is
predicted for him. Cromartie, though work-
ing in a weight above that in which he
wrestled last year, ‘shows lots of improve-
ment and can be expected to continue his

After the Trinity and Carolina contests

the wrestling team meets Virginia at.Lexing-
ton on March 9,

SCRUBS WINS DECISIVE

Last Thursday night on the gym floor the
scrubs proved themselves as capable material
trouncing the Charlotte “Y” employed
boys to the tune of 47 to 17. From the
very start, there was no doubt as to the out-
come of the fracas, but the Charlotte boys
were always scrapping and showed that they
were out to put forth their best.

In the first few minutes the scrubs slipped
away and gained a commanding lead which
they held throughout. Passing and shooting
was a high order and the small crowd that
witnessed the encounter were treated to some
Teal basket-ball. However, toward. the final
stages there was a letting down on the local’s
part that slowed things up considerably.

It would bevhard to picka single man who
excelled for the locals. DeArmon played a
good steady game at guard and Mitchell had
an exceptionally good eye for the basket,
garnering enough baskets to make him high
point man.
teamwork is the thing that ‘counts and team-
work it was that did count in the end. The
high point man for the losers was Hunter.
He caged several beauties from the foul
mark.

uled for the scrubs and they are expected

some victories,
lows:

Subs —. Sappenfield,
Parker.

Anderson,

ee

Under the leadership of the Little Gen-
Davidson’s
wrestling team left on Wednesday, February |
21, for meets with Trinity and Carolina. |
These matmen, though working rather in-|

——

wearing, just notice this:

If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

with a thousand holds for the first two op- |

Preliminaries were run off and the regu-|
lar team was chosen last Thursday. Those
rating places on the team by virtues of their |
weight; White, 175-pound class; Patterson,
N. G., 162-pound class; Kemjey, 149-pound
class, Cochran, 139-pound class; Cromartie,

With Trinity, the team faces about the
same proposition that it was confronted with

last year—to beat Trinity, which is no easy
Trinity has had two or three success-

record of not having been defeated by a fall. |

The Wildkittens realized that

It is rumored that several games are sched-

to keep pace with the varsity and run up
The line-up and score fol-

Davidson Scrubs

long time.

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”’

GREENSBORO, N. C.

See how well

Se

—

== dt

PROMINENT STUDENTS
“TAKE DEFINITE STEP

1. And it did come to pass that in the
second month even near unto the fifteenth
day that the scions of the Hebrew nation did
call a conclave of the forefathers.

2. An behold, it is written, there did pre-
sent themselves at the gate of the city even
a goodly number of Gentiles, seeking admis-
sion into the sanctuary of the Jewish nation.

3. Whereupon the forefathers did order
the«gates unloosed and the strangers be in-
vited to reside within in order that their
mission might be made known unto the
twelve tribes,

4. And the spokesman said unto them:

Behold we do come unto thee seeking ad-
| mission into thy club.
| 5. For, lo, these many days have we
\heard the passer-by: praise from the house-
tops the likely benefits of your tribe.

And the chief scribes and the patri-

hs did gather together and meditate what
these men of the

jarc
| should be done concerning
| Gentiles.

7. Whereupon the chief scribe spoke un-
|to the spokesman and said: Yea, verily for

the sum of ten pieces of silver wilt thy ad-

CONTEST IN FIRST TRY mission be considered.

| 8 And the Gentiles did receive the tidings
| with great joy and throwing of dust into
‘the air for they were jubilant. And it
jcame to pass that they did pay the silver
| with great thanksgiving and praise.

| 9. Hail, cried they, we are of the tribe
|of Hebrews. And they that were admitted
\did write their names in the sand, the same
being Not Rekless Currie, and Hip Move-
ment Morris.

10. And Rivers End Sydenstricker, and
Jag Breaker McCallum, and Great Bull Sor-
rells, and Gadabout Much Hodgin, and many
others of the Gentiles. And they did praise
the Hebrews. Selah!

previous years.

On Thursday night and also on Monday
night, Frank Toney has plans for a motion
picture. Baseball games will be played on
Friday and Saturday afternoons with Oak
Ridge. These games usher in the 1923 sea-
son for the Davidson nine.

The Dramatic Club is planning some in-
tertainment for Friday night and on Satur-
day night the junior class will have an en-
tertainment at the gym. On Friday morning
the speaking proper will be held in Shearer
hall.

This is a mere tentative program, but the
committee has, been putting forth a great
deal of effort and time to make the speaking
a success. They urge everyone who possibly
can to stay on the hill and promise each one
that does so a good time.

seccseceee Httie| Atego everyone is urged to invite a gi
' girl for
Ree Pepa the occasion. The girls really “make or

break” the speaking’s success after all. If

everyone will only co-operate with the com-

mittee the event this year will be bigger and

better than ever before. \
nH

co PLANS
SLIGHTLY ‘REARRANGED
If plans being formulated by the
class work out as hoped for, this 8
commencement will’ be one of the best Da-

Instead of the literary societies having
Monday night, as previously announced,
Monday’s program will consist of class day
exercises, conducted by seniors, beginning at
5:30, Monday afternoon. A play by the
Dramatic Club will be the main feature of
Monday evening.

Beginning.. Tuesday morning at 9.30, the
trustee’s annual meeting will be held, the
annual literary address coming at 12:15 p. m.
It is hoped that the Hon. W. J. Byran will
be able to accept the ‘invitation extended him
by the senior class, however, no definite
answer has been received as yet. The alumni
luncheon will come at 1:30, as previously
planned. At 5:30 p. m. the faculty will give
their reception.

Perhaps the best social feature of the en-
tire week will come Tuesday night, beginning
with the annual exercises of the literary
societies and closing with a lawn receptidn,
given jointly by the societies and senior
class. This is an entirely new arrangement
and from all indications will be the crown-
ing social event of commencement week.

The graduating exercises will come Wed-
nesday morning as planned. The seniors are
doing all in their power to give Davidson
one of the best commencements it has ever
experienced. A detailed program will ap-
pear in The Davidsonian at a later date.

T).

She—You raised your hat to that girl who
passed. You don’t even know her.

He—No, but my brother does and this is
his hat.

The Young
Man's Shop
We suggest
Collar Attached Shirts
for comfort and
durability.
Madras Stripe
and White

are the spicy leaders

