4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIA

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS. ....--Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L., PRICE-.-.-- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

C. M. S. McILWAINE_.-
ant Managing Editor

--Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD.
A. C. WILDMAN.

---Associate Editor

oF A. LAKE
{. B. PRIC

ee istant Managing Editor A .....-....-Associate Editor
W. F, GALLOWAY Athletic Editor Wiehe CONE cso Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON.-:_.-Peanut Parcher Editor O. J. ALLISON.-.--_-- Alumni Editor

Business Staff

J. R. BRIGGS. -_---.-.---_--.-------Advertising K. S. McALPIN -. Subscription

R. W. Ocland. Advertising W. H. CROMWELL. : ...Bookkeeper

Big mes LOR Vacchessses spies p ee -Subscription A. M. HURD.-......-.-. Service Department
J. M. GARRISON__._..-_--.-.--...-.-Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN, Manager J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager
REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., Pres. EARNEST, J. R. MONK, C. F.
WHARTON, D. B., Vice-Pres. GREEN, J. L. ROGERS, G._D.
PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas. HURD, A. M. SELSER, J. M.
ALLISON, O. J. MILTON, W. I ~ STORY, TP

ALL Be RY, VP. J.
BEA N. WHITE, Hl. M.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

. S: MOFFETT, A.
BOWIE, A. Y.

EDITORIAL

GREATER DAVIDSON

Bigger and Better Davidson” has been the slogan of the faculty, the

“A

Every succeeding year, since the adoption of the progressive program
of “bigger and better” expansion, a fuller realization of the plan has been
manifested.

That Davidson this year is bigger than it has: ever been in its collegiate
history is but a matter of record. The figures released from the registrar's
office show an enrollment of five hundred and seventy men, these figures
including registration through Saturday, September 15th, From the standpoint
of numbers Davidson is bigger than ever before.

But the slogan reads, “A Bigger’and Better Davidson.”

A more detailed inspection of registration data in the offices of adminis-
tration, and a prospectus of college activities for the year, is a convincing
argument that a “better Davidson” is to arise during the year 1923-24, and that
from this “bigness” and “betterment” will grow a truly “Greater Davidson.”

The new class enters into their college duties better prepared for the work
that lies before them, and with greater prospects for attaining success in
scholastic and campus activities than any class which ever entered Davidson.
This is the opinion of college officials who were engaged in the selection and
registration of students.

.The moral character and standing of each individual man was taken into
consideration, along. with the scholastic references from the high schools or
preparatory schools from which they came. The class of '27 may be regarded
as a survival of the fittest from a galaxy of applicants.

One of the most notable features of the movement for a “Greater David-
son” is the construction of the new Athletic Field. This field, which will con-
sist of a varsity gridiron, a.utility gridiron and a Freshman gridiron, a modern
cinder track, and a baseball diamond, equipped with adequate stands which will
be constructed of concrete, is the gift of loyal alumni who feel the urgent need
of better athletic equipment in order that the athletics of the college might keep
pace with the steady advancement of every other phase of college activity.

The improvements made on the campus during the past few months,
including the construction of new Watts to replace the old structure which was
destroyed by fire last year, and the improvement of the walks and lawns, should
mean much toward assuring a “Greater Davidson.”

The addition of eight men to the faculty and administration corps of the
college should contribute largely to the progressive program. These eight men
will fill the vacancies left by the resignation, last year, of two members of the
faculty, and positions created by the division of the work done by the college
officials.

Davidson, in some respects, is embarking upon a new athletic policy. With
.the arrival of three new coaches comes the decision to confine the members of
the Freshman class, entirely, to first year athletics, barring them altogether

from service on the varsity teams. A Freshman coach will have entiré charge |

of the new men, and an attractive schedule of games will be arranged for their
benefit. This means that Davidson is waking up to modern methods employed
by the leading institutions of the country in the training of prospective athletes.
It is truly a step toward a “Greater Davidson.”
of college athletics is a step for the betterment of the college as a whole, and
for the advancement of the college’s stand as an educational institution.

In the estimation of alumni and patrons of the college, the abolition of
hazing is the most important step taken in recent years for a “Greater David-
son.” The beginning of the year 1923-24 is one that marks an epoch in the
history of the institution. Never has a Freshman class been received into the

student body with the fraternal spirit and fellowship displayed toward the class |

of ’27. It is a spirit of which every student of Davidson should feel justly
proud, a spirit that is sweeping collegiate America. During the coming year

every Davidsonian will be put to the test in upholding the Court of Control and |

in standing behind the student body officers who have been selected to control
the reins of Freshman regulation. The student body this year will have the
privilege and honor of placing the anti-hazing progra mon a firm foundation
and of establishing, definitely, the biggest student body movement ever under-
taken for a “Greater Davidson.”

The campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers Hall and for an increase in
the endowment of the college, has passed the three-quarters mark, and it is
certain_now that this work for a “Greater Davidson” will be carried to com-
pletion. _ In addition to the financial support that is being attracted to Davidson
as a result of the campaign, the people of North Carolina have rallied with their
‘moral support, and Davidson is coming to occupy a place in the minds of the
people, even greater than she has held in the past.

. ‘Prospects for all student activities are bright. The publications are on a

lat the present time. Take a new interest in the old school, boost your own class,

} '
| firmer financial basis than in past years, and systematic endeavor has brought
|them to a place of undisputed merit that will be maintained unquestionably dur- |
ing the ensuing year. The Y. M. C. A. has entered into the year’s work with |
a vim that assures the student body of a year of real spiritual service.

With all these things in mind, there remains but one item which is neces-
sary for a “Greater Davidson” during the year 1923-24. That one item is “the
old Wildcat spirit.” We have every reason’to believe that this will be forth-
coming with the new system of selecting cheer leaders, inaugurated with the
beginning of this year. Stand behind the cheer leader and his assistants and
the stimulus will awaken any dormant pep that might not be manifesting itself

and remember that a “Greater Davidson” will never result without “Wildcat

| Random Bull-etts

By the Editor
“Those were some sessions,” we
heard an ex-Senior, who is visiting on
the campus, remark several days ago.
And if we remember correctly, said
Senior was correct. He was referring
to the every-night bull sessions which

student body and the supporters of Davidson for over five years. |

Any step for the betterment |

Spirit.”

“Greater Davidson” is ours for the asking.

wheel ! ‘

Put your shoulder to the

A new Atheltic Field—Three new coaches and the inauguration of first
‘year athletics—The rebuilding of Watts together with other campus improve-
ments—Best prospects in years for student activities—Abolition of hazing and
inauguration of the Court of Control—Best prepared Freshman Class in David-
son’s Historyv—A_ whirlwind campaign for new Chambers—The growth of
faculty and student body—A new spirit that will accompany the recently
adopted system of selecting cheer leaders—A Bigger, Better and Greater

| Davidson.”

1D.

HELLO FELLOWS

“Catch that speaking habit—Hello, Fellows!”

The Y. M. C. A. has done

its work, and splendidly, in impressing upon the new men of Davidson the spirit

‘of this friendly campus salutation.

3ut, the little phrase embodies more than a mere friendly salutation. The

same spirit that prompts one to say “hello fellows,” is the same spirit that has
made the little college of Davidson known over the nation as the only equal of

Princeton in morale and spirit.

In that little salutation is exemplified the spirit

of the college, and the new men can show their metal in no better way than to
fall into line with the custom which is as old as the college itself, and keep
“Gentlemen” on their tongue’s tip wherever they go about the campus and

town,
“Hello, Fellows,” is the most inex]
it is priceless.

most thoughtful expression of fraternal spirit.

yensive expression of pep and spirit, yet

It becomes second nature and is said without thinking, yet is the

It is light and happy, with a

ring of cheer, yet it is solemnly sacred to every man of Davidson.

“Catch that speaking habit—Hello,

Fellows.”
)

I

It would be hard to find a more pre

‘itable way of investing your time, new

men, than in literary society work. Speak to some society man at once—don't
wait to be approached, and secure a membership in one of the four societies,

).

| I
|

One of the biggest features of the work done by the Davidson College

'Y. M.C. A, is the weekly movie attract
lis probably the most neglected feature

|Y. M. C. A, to secure the best pictures

ion. The social welfare of the students |
of campus life and the efforts of the |

the silver screen affords are worthy of

ithe highest appreciation of the entire campus,

Open Forum

(This deartment is conducted by the editor,
for the benefit of those members of the stu-
dent body, or faculty, who desite to express
their opinions on any matter which might arise
during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
Davidsonian staff that the column will he con-
ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
that the students will express themselves freely
and, enter -into open-hearted discussions on
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from ‘publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. Al! articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m.
Monday.)

TO THE NEW MEN

You have come to a college that has
the reputation of being able to select
its new men, You have been chosen
'when hundreds of applicants were
turned away. Davidson College wants
only real men in the student body
and for that reason she is careful in
her choice of students.

When you come to Davidson it is
{taken for granted that you are a gen-
jtleman, and you are expected to con-
tinue as such. Davidson does not want
lany one who cannot live up to the
| standards that have been set by those
|who have gone before us. [very stu-
ident in college is under the pledge of
| student action to report to the Council
levery instance of conduct on the part
jof a student unbecoming to a gentle-
{man and a student of Davidson Col-
| lege.

Lf you do not know what is expected
|of you as a gentleman the following
jarticle from the Laws Governing the
| Student Body will help.

| Section 1. No student shall be guilty
lof stealing, lying, or living an immoral
life.

Sec. No student shall be guilty

?

on the Hill or representing the college
in any capacity when away from the
college.

Sec. 8. No student shall refrain
from reporting any violation of the
honor system which comes under his
observation,

Sec. 9. There shall be no playing of
musical instruments between the hours
of 8:00 and 11:00 p. m., except on
Saturday and Sunday nights.

Do your best to keep up Davidson's
reputation.

It might he wise for the old men to
take notice of these rules also.

“True Blue?”

PEP MEETINGS

The Wildcat Squad is once again
facing a season of hard battles for the
honor of our Alma Mater. And at the
same time we are all given an oppor-
tunity to co-operate with them, by en-
couraging them to their noblest ef-
forts through the interest we show in
them, and the amount of pep we can
work up and maintain throughout the
year.

The Board of Control has taken a
rforward step in the matter and has
|authorized a Freshman pep meeting
peach night at 7:00 o'clock, in order to
_quainted with real Davidson pep.
| At the first meeting Friday night
|they did remarkably well, and each
hight they are showing great improve-
jments, but the real pep is a process of
ja little time, and they need our help to
| get it.
| We are all well acquainted with
{what Davidson pep has meant in the
| face of heavy odds in the past. Only
last year the students as a body made
|two great victories possible by the

earn the yells and songs, and get ac-'

|of cheating, either on recitations, re-|amount of pep they showed and the
|views or examinations; or upon any|encouragement they gave the team.
other pledge work. | Remember the football game with V.
Sec. 38, No student shall be guilty | P,

of drinking alcoholic liquors, or having
|it in his possession on the campus.

Sec. 4. ‘No student shall be guilty of
engaging in any form of organized
| hazing whatever; any case arising be-
|tween individuals may be acted upon
|by the Student Council.
| Sec. 5. All students shall respect
college property, and shall not be guilty
of wilfully mutilating or destroying it
in any way. E

Sec. 6. “No student shall engage in
gambling.

Sec. 7. All students shall at all times
conduct themselves as a gentleman and
a student of Davidson College, while

I., and the game with Trinity, in
j baseball. Before the games the way
to victory seemed dark and uncertain.
Even the headlines read, Can Davidson
Do the Impossible? But we did. Call
it what you will, Davidson pep came to
the front and won.

It is vitally important that the new-
comers on Davidson’s campus be quick-
ly initiated into one of her most sacred
traditions, Davidson Spirit, and we as
older members of the student body
have a most obvious opportunity te
do so. :

‘Each night at 7:00 o’clock, and only
for a few minutes, we can meet with
the Freshmen and show them what we

were held on the third floor Watts, two
years ago, In the short space of one
night the denizens of the sky-loft
changed the map of the world, solved
the race problem of the ‘South, drew
up a set of working regulations for the
faculty and threashed out the age-old
controversy concerning the domesticity
of oysters.

Them were the days of Third Floor
Watts!

“If music be the soul of love,” put
on the soft pedal. Half the people of
the world are playing themselves to
death, The other half is off key.

“Traveling is a fool’s paradise,” said
Mr. Emerson, W.H. Matheson opines
that he must have spent the summer in
Hades. He didn’t venture from the
shades of Statesville the summer long.

One of the most mooted questions of
the age is, “What makes the wildcat
wild.” Here is the poet’s answer. It
was clipped from a recent issue of the
New York World.

|The wildcat is a wild gazish,
The wildest in the wildwood ¢
A nice, long tail is his one wish,
He's wanted it since childhood.
Now pipe that frowsy tuft of his
And you will know, my child,
The answer to that ancient quiz:
What makes the wildcat wild ?

Now that’s a stinging wallop on a
tender spot. The idea of referring to
the wildcat’s stub appendage as a
|“frowsy tuft.” It may be true that the
| wild feline’s envy of the tame cat’s
long and graceful tail is common
| knowledge, but permit us to say that
ithe poet has hitched an ant to a steam
‘roller, in his attempt to assign a reason
‘for the wild nature of thé wildcat.
Aside from the fact that he’s wild be-
‘cause he’s a wildcat, it is our honest
opinion that he has blood in his eves
‘for another reason. Maybe this will
throw some light on the subject :

The wildcat is a wild old top,
As wild as here | stand,
His tail’s as short as a diamond mop—
| Make a long one of it, if you can.
Now, listen, my friends, ’n I'll explain
This tale of his wildness and «fight-—
He's got his football moleskin on,
And he smells an Elonite.

FIRST Y. M. C. A. SERVICE

(Continued from page 1)

that year, after introduction, made a
short address. He spoke of his
pleasure at being back at his old
Alma Mater and especially at being
in his special capacity to serve her.
He pledged himself and the student
president and cabinet of the “Y” to
put forward every effort to bring out
the Christian influences at Davidson
and to serve the student and college
in every need or want. He gave
some wise suggestions in his address
on the duty of the men here to make
this year’s work be of great worth.
The duty to observe, to know men
and conditions, to compare these
with the best and to endeavor to
progress in every way was strongly
stressed. :

The quartet, composed of Watt
McCain, Count Davis, Duck Shep-
vherdyand Ted Jones, gave an appro-
|priate selection during the service
while Wallace Purdy acted as
pianist. ;

consider real pep, and help them to
|get it.

During the fall there will be pep
|meetings for the whole student ‘body,
and by giving them a 100 per cent at-
|tendance we can render a valuable
Service, and show our school patriot-
|1sm in a way equally as great as any.
| Attend the football practice, and help
| the team in training by a yell from the
[side lines, and when they play a game
vyell till it hurts. Remember that they

sees
risking a lot for our

jare fighting and
/enjoyment, and for the honor of Old
| Davidson,

i An Upper-Classman.
