4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

OQ

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association.
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON «+e... Editor-in-Chiet

H. H. SMITH.
E

D. ELKINS. irst Managing Editor R.

. M. HESTON Second Managing Editor D,

R. R. JONES... ..--Assignment Editor Ww.

H. MAUZE. .-Athletic Editor 1b
._F, WILDMAN viene ee Alama itor

PRESS BUREAU

W. Z. BRADFORD...........-++008 Manager W. F. GALLOWAY.......¢ :
Assistants
SMITH. C, BARRINGTON, J. C. MIN
APPLEBY, McINTOSH, CLAUDE RA

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

COOPER....... Business Manager
PRICE, J. H. E. WEEKS and W. J Ti etes SARL Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN Office Assistant OSC Pac emelnel Cay

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....- Asst. Circulation Mxr.
’
REPORTERS’ CLU
BROWN, W. P., Pres. McI LW Aad ng M. PRIC
SMITH, R. n Vice: Pres. McIVER, SH
TONY iN C. V., Sec.-Treas. W:
ALLIS oO. Ww
CALE Ww os
EAR? ie H. Ww
GALL POMEROY, W. I. A\Y
LAKE PRICE, H. B.

With the new year comes the 1923 basket-ball season. Particularly since
they made such a fine record for themselves last year, are we looking at our
Wildcat quintet this season with high hopes. As successful a year as the one
we had would be fine, but an even more successful one is the desire that comes
tousall. Practice is going on regularly and the squad is getting in trim. Let's
all get out and boost for a winning team.

D

Until we have to do without a good thing once or twice, we don’t realize
how good it is. This is certainly the case with the orchestra that has played
for us at the movies so fatthfully and efficiently during the fall. The music
has” always added to a marked extent to the enjoyment of the pictures, and
much praise is due the players, especially when we realize that they have to
go to a great deal of trouble and often miss seeing the picture which they are
as much interested in as we are. We all hope that nothing will prevent them
from continuing this spring the same entertaining playing thaf“they did last

fall.

OUR COACH
| he three years we have had a coach who was as much, if not more, inter-
that position. We all certainly appreciate what Coach Grey has done toward
building up a better athletic organization here, and the attention he has given
sincerely wish him a most prosperous future when he leaves Davidson.

D

UST before school closed for the Christmas holidays, we voted to give the
Court of Control a chance to take the place. of all hazing until April.
this much of an advanced step. So far there has not been an opportunity to
tell exactly how the Court will succeed. It does seem, however, to have
_ This’ situation puts upon all of us who are in favor of making this a
permanent change a large responsibility. We are certainly having our chance,
determined to do everything to make it a success. Their first move after they
were appointed showed that they meant business. We can’t afford to let any
says it. If just, strive to remedy the evil at once. Such action on our part

will help a great deal toward accomplishing our desired end.

EXAMS SOON
HE holidays are just over and none of us have forgotten entirely about
to have settled down and gone to work in earnest. Only about ten days remain
until exams come, and these spell success or failure to quite a number. With
able to do better work and accomplish more during this time than at any other.
There are numerous pleasures that we would let interfere with our
time of relaxation, but’this time is really the best to get rid of them._If we
definitely put these things aside now at the first of the year, they will gradually
to be doing.

There are a few also, who drop out each year after exams because of
hinder their work and have a bad influence on them, there is still a fine chance

D
terested in advancing Davidson’s athletics than any man who has held
to turning out teams that were truly Davidson in clean fighting spirit. We
, THE TEST
Quite a number seemed opposed to abolishing hazing, but were willing to take
adjusted things, even this soon, better than they were before:
as any who are against this may say. Further, the members of this Court are
criticism pass unnoticed. If it is unjust, we should prove that to whoever
D
the pleasure of being at home, but enough time has passed for everyone
a rest of two weeks from our school duties, we should all be refreshed and
studying and doing our work right. These probably tempt us more.after a
lose their danger and will not interfere with what we ought, and usually intend,
failure. For any who are talking or thinking of doing this, and letting that
to be saved from this mistake. Taking advantage of this time for hard work

Ebi res:
things off unnecessarily we
itor

do it. All should realize the value of study now, and not lose the oppor- |

Use Your Time

Time is something of which there is only
a limited amount. There is no limit to the
amount of money that we may make or
spend. and there is none to the:amount of air
and light that we have in this world—we
may use all of these that we want. But
there is a limit to time. There are only 24
hours in the day and 60 minutes in the hour.
No matter how much we may wish to have
more time to work or loaf, that is denied us.

Another thing about time is that it never
comes back again. We may lose a golf ball
one day and find it again the next, but not
so with time. .An hour wasted is gone for
good and there’s no recalling it. If we put
rob ourselves of
precious time. We have to do them when
we olight to berdoing something else.

Examinations come next week. We have
some time now but the night before the
exams there won't be much left. Now’s the
time to put out if you wish to do well on
your examinations: not the last 10 or 12
hours before the exam comes off.

In the last place, if you don’t care about
your own time, don’t rob the other man of
his. It’s as hard for him to study as it is for
you.

Think on these things.

A STARGAZER.

Do Take It

Just as evolution has been the dominant
subject of discussion between evolutionists
and non-evolutionists of late, it seems that
R. O. T. C. is a subject greatly argued by
Davidson military enthusiasts and non-mili-
tary enthusiasts. Both sides have some good
arguments, but too many of their arguments
go in one ear and out the other, or possibly
in one eye and out the other.

As a taker of the advanced R. O. T. C.
course let me state some of the chief direct
heneiits which I am securing from same,
uside from the pay and commission connect-
ed with it.

First is the general knowledge attained.
The advanced course does not, as many seem
to think, develop war lovers. Tt avounes
with much information not directly related
to warfare, which is almost essential to
every well educated man.

Second the direct contrast with the
inilitary professors afforded. Most other
classes are large, which prevents the accom-
plishment of the best work. Ina class of 40,
each student derives one-fortieth of the pro-
fessor’s-attention, but in an advanced R. O.
T. C. class a much larger proportion of the
professor's time is devoted to each individual.
For instance, the five Juniors taking R. O.
l. C. are divided into two “sections. Of
course this calls for more work than it
Would if the classes were larger, but good is
derived from anything in the same propor-
tion in which time is devoted to it.

Third: "is the development of leadership
derived from being placed in command of
men, which is a more valid element than
most students realize.

Aside from these many other advantages
could be enumerated along with some disad-
vantages too, it is true. In’ the opinion of
many the chief disadvantage seems to be that
it requires a little work at times, which
many do not intend to encounter.

1s

“PRO.”

D:

Figuratively Speaking
Driscoll (in Math class)—Now, do you
understand it?
Freshman—I understand all you told me,
excepting when them there roots come along
in geographical procession.

D.

GAMMA OF NORTH CAROLINA
(Continued from Page 1)

short time. Elections to membership among

alumni will be limited to those men who .

have heen out of college at least 15 years,
and also students from the Senior class. The
chapter is to be called, Gamma of North
Carolina Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.

The charter members of this chapter are
Dr. W. J. Martin’ Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Dr.
W. L. Porter and Prof. W. W. Wood. Dr.
W. J. Martin is president of the chapter and
Prof. W. W. Wood is seeretary and treas-
urer,

Phi Beta Kappa was founded December 5,
1776, at William and Mary College: Da-
vidson first petitioned in 1916 and the peti-
tion was granted at the last convention.
Charters will also be granted this year to

| other institutions and will be installed in the
order that the charters were granted :

Gettysburg College, Drake University,
Maine University, Davidson College, Oregon

| and Cornell.

jon this order:

we
EXCHANGE

| COLUMN
fcxmisy o,.
Climbing the Golden Stairs

Never mind the clouds, dear ;
Never mind the rain.

Trust in God and look ahead,
The sun will shine again.
Singing after sadness,
Goodhealth after pain;

Sow the seed and afterwhile
Comes the golden grain.

Never mind the wind,

Though it whistle loud and long.
Whistle up a tune yourself
And then break out in song.
Laugh away your troubles

And pray away your cares:
That’s the way, my sweetheart,
To climb the golden stairs.

€

She—Can you read lips?
He—Yes, by the touch system.—Ex.

Two Hebrew merchants met in the street.

“What's this I hear?” said one. ‘You
had a big fire at your place.”

“Oh, no,” said the other, “it isn’t going to
happen until next week. But how about

you? You're insured, too, aren’t you?”
“Yes, I carry both ‘fire and hail insur-
ance.”

“IT can understand being insured against
fire, but I didn’t know anybody could make
it hail.’—Literary Digest.

Dr. Perry—“According to Milton’s idea
of the Universe, where is hell, Godwin?”

Godwin, (awaking suddenly at the sound
of his name)—"Here, sir.”

“Papa.”

“Yes, Willie.”

“TL want a bicycle like Johnny's.”

Silence.

“Papa.”

“What?”

“I was home last night when you came in
and when nursie told you mother was out,
and | saw—

“Er—Willie, how much do bicyles cost
now ?”
Theres’ nothing like combining business

with pleasure,” said the tailor’s daughter as
she lovingly wrecked the crease in her lover's
trousers.

She—Are you single?

Hle—Do | look like twins ?—Cento.

You've all heard about the Jane who was
so dumb that she thought necking was a new
kind of ‘scarf, but did you hear of the guy
who thought the “Yanks” were a bunch of
dentists?—Tech News.

Stage Manager—Now,
ready; run up the curtain.

New Hand—Wot yer talkin’ about—run
up the curtain; think I’m a bloomin’ squir-
rel?—Nichols News.

then, we're all

“You Yanks,”
friend,
“Just make a fellow lawf.
At first you say you're on a boat
And then you shout, ‘We're off. "—Banter.

remarked my English

‘Grip—This breakfast food looks like saw-
dust.
Grab—Yes, it’s fine board we get here.

She—I can’t light this match, by shoe is
too small.

He—Scratch it on your er-—er—you better
let me strike it—Ex,

The Judge (to prisoner)—“When were
you born?”

Prisoner (sullenly)—‘Wot do you care?
You ain't going to give me nothing.”

Freshman
seats in L.”

Ticket “Seller—‘“Say, this ain't Hades.”—
Sandspur.

(at theater)—“Give me two

On Debating

“Student debaters are just beginning to
get warmed up for the season’s numerous
forays, and it therefore is seasonable for Dr.
H. A. Overstreet, of New, York College, to
make a few fitting remarks, The said re-
marks are printed in one of the news stands
numerous offerings, and the general tone is
Such contests, rather tha:

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

Coach Fetzer delightfully entertained the
famous football team at a dinner last Tues-
day evening. All the “D” men were present
except J. A. Shaw. Drs. Douglas and
Arbuckle* were also present. The team had
broken training and proceeded to enjoy the
delicious repast without restraint. All left
feeling that the season’s hardships had been

rewarded.

Basket-ball Schedule

January 17—Lynchburg Athletic Club at
Lynchburg.

January 18—W. and L. at Lexington.

January 19—V. M. I. at Roanoke.

January 21—Roanoke at Salem.

January 22—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.

February 1—Guilford at Davidson.
2—Guilford at Charlotte.
25—Guilford at Guilford.
26—Elon at Elon.

February 27—Carolina at Chapel Hill.

February 28—Trinity at Durham.

With King, Hengeveld and McAlister back
and several new men showing up well, the
prospects for a successful season are good.
‘The schedule is not completed, but the Vir-
ginia trip is settled. Games on the Hill with
Wake Forest ,Trinity and Carolina are pend-
ing. The team leaves Wednesday night for
the Virginia trip.

February
February
February

Dr. J. W. Bradley, of Suchien, China, will
speak at the “Y” meeting tomorrow night at
6:45. Doctor Bradley has charge of a large
hospital in China and tells of his experiences
in an interesting manner. ‘

The Freshman Improvement Medal in the
Eumenean Freshman Society has been
awarded to J. R. Boulware. At a meeting
held shortly before Christmas, the judges
decided on Boulware, not, however, until
after much deliberation,

——

The list of the names of the alumni and
students of Davidson who .have entered into
some branch of active service for their coun-
try has not yet been completed. We hear of
new names almost every day and the'men are
shifted so frequently that it is impossible to
have a correct statement of their locations.
Davidson is proud of these men and delights
to do honor to them but she is also proud of
those men who are working in their natural
spheres, and are preparing for whatever the
future may bring to them

Iix-Governor Patterson, of ‘Tennessee, and
Mr. Horton, of the State of Washington,
are to speak here under the auspices of the
Anti-Saloon League. It is hoped that this
campaign of the League will wake up our
officers and people to the necessity of law
enforcement. Superintendent Davis says
that in this state-wide campaign by national
speakers, it is the purpose to give our people
full information as to national prohibition
and how it can be accomplished.

|

schooling students to be truth seekers, train
them to become skillful liars; instead of con-
tending for a personal belief, the debaters
often.are required to strain in every con-
ceivable manner for a line of argument suf-
ficiently false to pull the wool over the eyes
of judges and—bring home the bacoa. Dr.
Overstreet likely would snort at the phrase-
ology of this digest, yet we believe we have
expressed his thought as “truthfully” as nec-
essary contraction and generalization will
permit.”

The above isan extract from a recent
editorial in the ‘Times-Picayune.

Just what Tulane’s debaters would say to
this indictment of all their kind would be
interesting to know. Of late there has been
criticism of the custom of giving debaters
letters, and it would seem to be adding a last
straw that another critic has now arisen who
brands them as liars. tI would not be sur-
prising to find that the next persecutor of
debaters will cause the Olive and Blue
orators to forsake the platform for their
fists.

The Times-Picayune continues :

“We would like to hear a debate between
Dr. Overstreet and some other learned edu-
cator, disagreeing with him, on the proposi-
tion: ‘Resolved, That college debates are
beneficial to students rather than harmful.’
It would open an interesting discussion of
this subject of ‘truth seeking. Dr. Over-
Street could tell us what devices the pro-

+, CeSS requires—specifically—that will develop

clear and logical thinking, which is’ so nec-
essary to ‘truth finding.’ Many will contend
that one: of these instrumentalities is the

‘debate,’ and that it is one of the very, best.”
i —Hullabaloo. CHa = ae

