THE

DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22,

1923

5

LITERARY NEWS _.

CLASS IN EXPERIMENTAL
PSYCHOLOGY INSTITUTED

A regular feature of the college work
after this year will be a laboratory course
in Psychology. It constitutes one semester's
work and is open to anyone who has had the
first half of -Phychology I or the equivalent.

The apparatus will be installed in the base-
ment of the physics building. Though it has
not arrived yet word has been received that
it is on the road and will be here shortly.
Some of the individual pieces of apparatus
are: <A tachistoscope for measuring atten-
tion range; a chronscope for measuring re-
action time; tuning forks to determine sound
discrimination, and a perimeter for slotting
the size and shape of the retina. Color
mixtures for the synthetic study of color
compositions have also been ordered.

A complete laboratory course for the test-
ing of skin and muscular sensations will be
shortly instituted. Experiments will be con-
ducted in higher thought as well as in the
emotions. The course will be given like the
courses in biology or chemistry, that is, with
regular afternoon laboratory periods.

lighteen men are taking the course this
semester. No doubt the number will be
greatly augmented next year for the course
will surely prove to be most interesting.

D
PANDEINIC SOCIETY
HAS VARIED PROGRAM

The Pandeinic Literary Society had a very
interesting meeting on February 13. ‘The
subject for debate was: Resolved, That the
Turks should be banished from civilized
Kurope. The affirmative was upheld by
Davis, J. H., and Curry. On the negative
were’ Regen, E., and Pitts. The house and
judges were both unanimously in favor of
the affirmative. .

Next was a declamation by W. C. Milton.
The subject was “Not Guilty.” The speaker
put much feeling into his delivery.

W. T. Baker carried the society off with
him to his beloved Hawaiian Islands during
his oration. He gave a resume of a trip
which he had taken through these island a
few years ago.

I. P. Burney, from the Metrophilian So-
ciety, presented tentative plans to the Pan-
deinic for literary society night during com-
mencement. After a great deal of discussion
both pro and con, these plans were accepted.

D. B. Walthall gave a short account of the
current events of the past few weeks.

D.

COMMENCEMENT PLAN
MEETS FAVOR OF PHIS

A proposition—not dedicated to the propo-
sition that all men were created equal—but
that the seniors and the four literary so-
cieties combine their social functions on the
night that the societies give their formal
reception during Commencement was put up
to the Phis by L. B. Burney last Thursday
night. The society as a whole approved of
the plan set forth and voted to back it with
all her resources and make it a success.

A new feature was added to the program—
current events, The need of this has been
felt for some time. H. M. Wells, the first
man to function on this phase of the pro-
gram, gave a carefully selected report on the
happenings of the past week,

The debate had to do with the justification
of the French in making the stringent de-
mands on the Germans for their fulfillment
of the Versailles Treaty and pay her indem-
nity. R. O. Sellars and A. B. Williford held
that the French are entirely justified. P. J.
Story and H. M. White, both appointed on
the negative, held it unjust. The decision
committee agreed with the affirmative,

J. E. Holtzhouser delivered a declamation
on the birth of Abraham Lincoln, setting
forth his achievements and soundness of
judgment with force and vim.

The oration by W. Glenn Houck, on the
causes of the French occupying German.ter-
ritory, gathered from lectures by Dr. J.
Moore McConnell in history, confirmed the
decision the judges made on the debate.

D

LITERARY FRATERNITY
DISCUSSES ORATORY

The Gavel and Forum Literary Fraternity
held its semi-monthly meeting, February 15,
in the Delta Theta Chi hall.

The chief event of the meeting was an ad-
dress by one of Davidson’s best speakers,
Prof. A. Currie. Professor Currie had’ as
his subject, “The Influence of Roman Ora-
tory on Present Day Speaking.” He care-
fufly traced the evolutionary steps of the
advance of oratory from the time of the
Roman republic to the present. At the pres-
ent time Professor Currie thinks that this
generation has a wrong idea of oratory, re-
garding it as mere sound of smooth language,

with little or no deep thought. What a
would-be orator needs is clear presentation
of a worth-while idea or thought, not vain or
meaningless imitations of so-called orators.

J. D. Bernhardt then held the attention of
the meeting by reading one of Webster's
famous orations. Then followed an open
discussion by all of the members.

The purpose of this fraternity is to arouse
more interest in literary work, to make public
speaking more prominent at Davidson, and
to give recognition to men interested in for-
ensic work. Steps are being taken to in-
corporate the local fraternity into a national
one.

D.

PHYSICS FRATERNITY
HEARS TWO REPORTS

The Sigma—Pi-Sigma—Physies Fraternity
held its regular meeting in the physic lecture
room, last Wednesday night at 8 p.m. After
the business before the society had been dis-
posed of two excellent papers were read.

The first, by Ray Carr, gave a few prac-

tion of a radio station. Prof, 1. M. Currie
read a paper on the “Future of Radio,” in
which he brought out many interesting facts
about the radio of today, and showed the
boundless opportunities in this field for its
development in the future.

After the reading of these two papers the
meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be on the night of Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 28.

D

POLITY CLUB TAKES IN
TWO NEW MEMBERS

The Polity Club met on Monday evening,
February 12, in Shearer hall. At this meet-
ing the club added two new members to the
roll: Tl. M. White and W. I. Gallaway.
The program, which was very interesting,
consisted in the reading of a thesis by each
of the new members.

H. M. White discussed the relation he-
tween America and China. He gave a very
interesting history of China and her relations
to the United States in the past, followed
by a more detailed account of the relations
existing between China and the United
States at the present. His thesis gave a keen
insight of China and her foreign policy. He
also dwelt at some length on the policy the
United States has adopted toward China.

W. IT’. Galloway discussed Smyrna and her
importance in world affairs. He began with
a history of Smyrna and her foreign affairs,
showing clearly the present relations between
Smyrna and the world at large. Then he
brought up the importance of this country,
showing that Smyrna is of greater import-
ance in world affairs today than is generally
thought.

It is also interesting to note that Mr. R. P.
Lane, European director of the Junior Red
Cross, will speak in Shearer hall on March
7. His subject will he on conditions abroad.
Mr. Lane was secured by the local chapter

of the International Relations Club.
D.

METROPHILIANS ELECT
SPRING TERM OFFICERS

The officers for the spring term of the
Metrophilian Literary Society were elected
on last Tuesday night. Pat Kimsey was
unanimously elected president; R. L. Price,
vice-president; L. P. Burney, first critic, G.
M. Morrow, second critic; W. M. Gracy,

and T. B, Thompson, second supervisor.

The members of the society feel that.they
have elected men who will ably carry on the
work which has been placed upon them.
‘These officers will be installed at the next
meeting.

After the election, the remainder of the
evening was given over to a smoker, which
was thoroughly enjoyed by all. There were
many speeches delivered, but the event of
the evening was a vocal solo by Mr. P. C.

Henderson.
TD.

SYMPATHY EXTENDED
TO UNCLE BAXTER

The members of the student body, as well
as the townspeople, were saddened last week
to hear of the death of Uncle Baxter’s
youngest daughter, who was 22 years of age.
She died on Saturday, February 10 and was
buried on the following Tuesday.

It is interesting to note that Uncle Baxter
has been connected with the college since |
his boyhood days. Uncle Baxter relates with
pleasant memories how he used to play about |
the large stones/ that had been hauled to}
build the old Chambers Building. The sym-
pathy: of the student body goes out to him

in his bereavement.

tical facts on the development and instaltay-

secretary; W. A. Patterson, first supervisor; °

THE REEL STUFF

This week's screen attraction will be
Thomas Meighan in “Back Home and
Broke.” The story is by George Ade, one

of the best known of American writers. He
is widely known as a humorist. “Back Home
and Broke” is Mr. Ade’s second screen story.
His first, “Our Leading Citizen,” was also
played by Thomas Meighan, and was an un-
questioned success.

“Back Home and Broke” is the story of
the struggles of a young man for success
after the death of the supposedly rich father
who left he and his mother penniless. After
going West he returns to the old home an
apparent failure and is ridiculed hy everyone.
It is his method of dealing with this situa-
tion that provokes the unlimited laughter
created by this picture.

Thomas Meighan was born in Pittsburgh,
Pa. He left college to go on the stage.
\fter about cight years on the stage he
joined the Paramount Company.

Mr. Meighan is supported in this picture
hy Lila Lee. Miss Lee was born in New
York. She went on the vaudeville stage as
a chy, and, became a screen actress with

“Famous Players in 1918 when she was only

sixteen,

The small town hero usually returns rich
and marries the banker's daughter, but you'll
see how Thomas Meighan came back in
“Back Home and Broke.”

Coles Phillips, the eminent artist whose
superb works of art are admired by every
college man, ‘has named Marion Davies as
one of the twelve most beautiful women in
\merica. .

The publishers of Charles Major's “When
Knighthood Was In llower” estimate that it
has been read in book form by 5,000,000
readers. It sold 200,000 copies the first year,
and the novel has ranked as a best seller
longer than any modern book of fiction.

Among the other rare antiques used in this
production is a statue of the Madonna carved
in the fifteenth century by Reinscheider, the
famous carver of that period. It is of
Spanish type, carved out of solid weod and
is valued at $6,000.

—D.

CINDER PACKERS ANTICIPATE
(Continued from Page 1)

The schedule is as follows:

South Carolina at Columbia........./ April 7
N, C, State at Rdleigh,...........%4 April 14
Clemson at Davidson..............4 April 21
Pending, aWay...c.ccce soccer e csv ed April 28
State Meet at Durham............5 04 May 5

Davidson's golf teameis also in the pro-
cess of formation and will be rounded into
shape within the next three weeks. All men
who believe they can qualify are requested
by Captain Bachman to hand in three signed
scores within next two weeks.

Arrangements for matches with Salisbury
and Gastonia will be made as soon as the
men whip themselves into form. Other
matches will be added to the schedule if
possible. It is also stated that Davidson
may enter a team in the Olympic meet at
Durham if her men show up well.

The golf course is in excellent condition,
due to the efforts and supervision of Doctor
Arbuckle. Golf interest is growing rapidly
at Davidson and the student body is expect-
ing a real Wildcat team this spring.

Tennis prospects are good and the team
is centering itself about Captain Bradley.
Last year’s Wildcat racketeers copped the
State championship, and no less is expected
of this year’s team. Manager Price is ar-
ranging the schedule of tournament and is
taking steps toward entering the State meet.
1D) eee

NEW PLANS WORKED OUT
(Continued from Page 1)
reception will take the nature of Oriental
mysticism and is to be a surprise to all.
However, it bids fair to excell anything of

vits kind ever staged on literary society night

before.

At the various meetings of the literary so-
cieties held last week, the chief marshal, L.
P. Burney, explained the plan. The whole
idea was immediately accepted and all the
societies voted to uphold the chief marshal
and his assistants in every way in order to
make the plan a, success.

The valedictorians of the various societies

will be selected within the next two weeks,

and preparation will be made for the exer-
cises. Repliers will come from members of
the junior class.
D.

WANDERING MINSTRELS RETURN

(Continued from Page 1) |
too, that the exceeding brilliancy of certain |
members of ’26 was exposed, when Seago |
and! Finn couldn’t catch the train because |
they failed to find the depot. ©” |

At Gastonia the Minstrel played before
the largest audience on the trip, and the most
enthusiastic. After their appearance, a re-
ception was tendered them, and both there
and in Greenville they were entertained in
private homes,

After the show in Charlotte, the Minstrels
went down to the radio broadcasting station
at the Andrews Music Store, and broad-
casted their main selections. While - still
sending, a telegram was received from Pitts-
burgh to the effect that people in the Smoky
City were hearing the program and enjoying
it immensely. After selection from
Gallagher and Shean, and during an orches-
tral piece, a call came for more of Woolfolk
and Martin’s act. Their radio program con-
sisted of a one and one-half hour concert, in-
cluding Woolfolk and Martin in end-man
dialogue, O. J. Allison singing “Love Sends
a Little Gift of Roses,” the quintet with
string instruments, the quartet in four selec-
tions, several pieces of Gallagher and Shean,
" and “O

one

“Bamboo Babies,” sung by all,
Davidson.”

The quartet, composed of Jones, Wilson,
Brown and MeLeod, deserves special men-
tion also. ‘They received encores at all ap-
pearances. Two of the number, Jones and
Brown, in the presentation of a colored ver-
of “Romeo and Juliet,” somewhat
changed Shakespeare's wording, but the ef-
fect was the same.

\fter the last in Charlotte, the
scenery was about as thoroughly fagged out
as the players. It had been nailed and re-
nailed until there was hardly room to nail
again. Tt was a tired crew that piled into
Davidson late Saturday night, but they left
a name worthy of themselves in their wake.
Proof of this lies in the fact that since they
have came home about a dozen requests for
hookings have came in from all parts of the
two Carolinas and from Georgia.

The Minstrel cast'was composed of R. L.
Mcl.eod, FE. T. Woolfolk, A. V. Gibson, A.
M. Martin, J. B. Sloan, W. T. Jones, C. V.
Brown, D. G. Wilson, G. D. Rogers, W. P.
Brown, C. D. Regen, W. I. Howell, A. M.

sion

stand,

_ Agents Wanted

To Represent

Massachusetts Bonding and
Insurance Company

Ocean Accident and Guaranty
Company
W. E. PRICE
General Agent

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

i

Hurd, J. R. Earnest, W. H. Crane, R. A. M.
Seago, L. B. Finn, W. McCain, W. S.
Buchanan, H. K. Russell, O. J. Allison, J. B.
Bryan, T. L. Fraser, Gettys Guille, H. F¥
Northrop, J. C. Simpson, G. R. Dupuy.

The management of the trip was ably
handled by R. C. Aiken.

eee es SOO0000C ]

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows

Athletic Supplies

Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ier
:

‘OT so many years ago
(when some of us
ourselvs wer under-

graduates) the collej student
was a hoodlum, Today he's as
conservativ as can be—but
with definite expression of
his individuality nonethe less.
Witness, John Ward Shoes.
They ar made to meet the
tastes of collej men: dignified,
but carrying a note of real
distinction,

The John Ward representativ
displays in

No. 4 Georgia Hall
February 22, 1923

hn Ward

en's Shoes
Borg Sader mare

121 Duane street - New York C:

process.

process.

care.

“Lava,” wrote the Freshman,
“is what you use to shave with”

ND perhaps the Freshman was not so far
wrong at that. He may have been think-
ing of lather that rolled down his cheeks,

dried on his face, and erupted his feelings in the’

Today, there is something better—Williams’
differs from any shaving lather you ever used.
For Williams’ Shaving Cream contains a certain
ingredient that is distinctly beneficial to the skin.
And Williams’ is easier to
shave with. It softens
whisker resistance with a
speed that takes all the
tedium out of the shaving
Get a tube of
Williams’ today and be-
gin enjoying its helpful

Notice the hinged
cap. You can't
lose it—und the
tube hangs up!

