THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

yawn

-—— see ——

Town News

Mrs. Lingle returned from St. Louis,
Mo., last Tuesday, where she was called
by the illness and death of her mother.

Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Andrews, of Salis-
bury were guests at the home of Dr.
Lingle for a short time last week. They
came to attend the Phi Beta Kappa
initiation ceremony.

Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of P. C.,
who came for the Phi Beta Kappa inia-
tion, was a guest of his brother, Prof.
J. L. Douglas.

Dr. Metcalf, of the University of Vir-
ginia, who delivered the Phi Beta Kap-
pa address last Friday, was a guest of
Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake.

The Book-Lovers’ Club will mect next
Friday afternoon with Mrs. C. M. Rich-
ards,

Mr. and Mrs. S. D. Gordon were guests
at the home of Mrs. Olin White dur-
ing Mr. Gordon’s series of lectures here.
They left last Friday for Fayetteville,
N. C.

Dr. W. J. Martin returned Saturday

from a business trip to Raleigh and
Richmond.
or<

The Thelemite Club met last Saturday
evening at the home of Dr. J. W. Mac-
Connell. An address by Prof. Fleagle
on “The Average American” was an en-
joyable feature of the evening.

Mrs. F, F, Ellinwood arrived from New
York Tuesday. Her grand-daughter,
Miss Jeanne Calhoun, of Cornwell, Conn.,
came with her.

Mrs. Doyle and daughter, Miss Anita
Doyle, returned to their:home in Balti-
more, after a very pleasant visit at Dr.
and Mrs, J. W. MacConnell’s last week.

Mrs. W. W. Wood and her sister, Miss
Jane Price, and Mrs, Paisley, spent the
week-end in Statesville, visiting their

relatives,
¢

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS

Miss Lera Hobbs, of Mitchell College,
spent the week-end at home.

Friends. of Miss Martha Thompson
will be glad to know that she has re-
covered from her illness, which has con-
fined her to her home for several weeks.

The Sutzus Club met with Mrs. L. M.
Black last Friday night. Refreshments
were served. The evening was enjoyed
by all present.

Several of the town people had the
pleasure of listening to the Davidson
Glee Club Concert, broadcasted from
Atlanta at about 11 o’clock Saturday.

Mr. and Mrs. Allison, of Concord,
spent last Friday with their neices,
Misses Mary and Lizzie Young.

Mr. and Mrs. John Ramsay, of Salis-
bury, spent Sunday in Davidson.

Mrs. Ida B, Fleming, of Concord, N. C,,
spent last week-end with Mrs. C. H.
Hamilton,

Mrs, F. Dendy entertained the Young
Matrons’ Club last Friday afternoon.

The entertainment of the evening was,

rook, A salad course was served.

Miss Jane Price, of Louisburg, W. Va.,
who was a guest of Mrs. W. W. Wood
for the last few weeks, will.return to
her home the last of this week.

Mrs. Hengeveld will leave Saturday
morning with her little daughter, Vir-
ginia, for her home in Waycross, Ga.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell left for Savan-
nah, Ga., o na hunting trip last week.
He will return Thursday,

Miss Charlotte Crawford spent the
week-end with her parents,

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Mebane motored
to Virginia for the Christmas holidays.

The Girl Scouts gave the play “Taming
of Horros” at Huntersville last week for

'S. D. GORDON ENDS SERIES OF |
"INTERESTING SPEECHES

| (Continued from page 1)

| play, comes in their associations with God. |
When people read the Bible, light does not |
| put spots on them but it shows them what |
|they are. That is why some people merely
like to be a “church member.” Above every-
| thing, be careful of the daliy life, for that
is the greatest preaching—the unconscious |
life being the most powerful.

The topic of the closing talk was ‘“Earth-
; quakes.” He began by saying that God's
| ideals have never been worked out, and in the
| end he showed that the earthquakes are aj
, warning to this effect. Scientists say that
| earthquakes are due to a force in the earth’s
|formation, and a bishop in London comes
, forward with the statement that they come
as a judgment for sin. Some people have
asked whether anything is said in the Bible
regarding earthquakes. Mr. Gordon answer-
ed affirmatively, showing there are records in
|the Bible of previous earthquakes, that a
|series of prophecies made have never taken
place, and that Jesus, in speaking to His
disciples spoke of certain things to happen
before a great crisis, and the earthquake was
one of them.

Everything comes from either God or the
devil, said the speaker. Both have controll-
ing purposes; with God it is love,.with the
devil, hate and selfishness. The recent carth-
| quake in Japan culminated in the sending of
cight billion dollars to the stricken Japanese,
an example of love and fellowship. Earth-
quakes are both a warning and a plea, a
warning to those people who merely keep a
watch as time passes, and a plea to God's
,own people to be true and live for Him. In
closing, Mr. Gordon said, “Earthquakes are
!a warning that a crisis is yet to come, when
this dispensation shall come to an end, and
Christ shall take affairs in His hands.”

DEBATERS READY

‘been laid out on the ground.

FRESH PROVIDE AMUSEMENT |

(Continued from page 1)

error “Nat,” better known as “Commandante |
Dick,” Faison’s chair was also removed, but |
this was remedied after much persuasion. |
The freshmen were given a choice of eating |
under the table or on “infinity.” The ma-
jority chose the former; but even these had |
to come up for air occasionally. |

The main part of the program of Sopho-|
more Day was carried out in the afternoon. |
Promptly at 3:00 o'clock, the entire fresh- |
man class assembled before their respective |
dormitories, and were marched by their |
Sophomore leader to the portion of the!
campus back of Phi Hall. A Jarge “26” had |

Deck took |
charge of the class and arranged the fresh- |
men so as to form a human “26.” Yells were |
given for the Sophomore class, and at the
first stroke of the college bell, the freshmen |
knelt down, placed their caps in front of
them, and at cach stroke of the bell, they)
“bowed to the dust,” and kissed the green
“EF” on their caps—twenty-six times. The |
noise made by the osculations of two hun- |
dred and fifty freshmen resembled a herd of |
cattle drawing their feet out of sticky mud. |
“Shorty” Love evidently feared contamina-
tion, for after each kiss he carefully brushed
his “F” off with a tooth brush.

When this act of submission was finished,
the freshmen from Georgia and Watts par- |
ticipated in a human wheelbarrow race, Con- |
trary to most rules of etiquette, the green |
lads were dressed in “full evening dress” or |
rather pajamas.

This race was followed by a paint fight |
between the Barracks and Rumple. Green |
paint served only to further prove the}
“greenness” of all freshmen. Each team
consisted of so many horses, and a rider for |
each, The Rumpleites were victorious and |
elected to fight it out among themselves. |

This fight lasted about ten minutes, after |
which the shirt fight between East and West
dormitory freshmen took place. The rules

‘were that a man was out of the fight as soon

(Continued from page 1)
| Genuine Wildcat fight is evident in the |
| statements of the debaters themselves. Stith |
| says: “We undoubtedly have the stronger

the benefit of the newly ?organized troop | side. With the student body behind us, if we

there.

don’t win, it will be our fault alone.” Hol- |
| ingsworth asserts: “Washington and Lee)

}as his shirt was torn completely off.

Less
than five minutes was sufficient for this to
be accomplished. Never have a bunch of
shirts been torn up so fast, not even at the
laundry.

The afternoon's program ended with a
parade through town. At the movies the

The Civic League had their annual| beat us soundly last year; and we haven't freshmen completed Sophomore Day by Ra
bazaar last Tuesday, which proved to be| forgotten it. I have this one thing to say|i"@ “How Green I Am,” and by giving

a great success.

on the eve of the meet: whatever the out-|
|come of the debate may be, I shall give my |
|

numerous yells, Such yelling had never been
heard since the days of Sam Story. “Fresh”
Love and Wall gave a barber shop farce, fol-

PLAN TO MAKE TRIP TO
GEORGIA BY AUTOMOBILE

Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the
college, is planning to take three of four
of the student body to Georgia in his
Willis-Knight.

While no absolutely definite plans have
been made, Mr. Hengeveld is counting on
taking with him K. S. McAlpin, A. M.
Hillhouse and A, M. Hurd. L. L. Elkins
will also join the party if the Glee Club
trip to Florida slfould fall through.

i

At present the party hopes to leave as
soon as the Christmas holidays start,
and pass through Columbia and. Augusta
on its way to Waycross. Definite plans
concerning the time of departure and
route to take will be made soon.

Mr, Hengeveld made the trip from
Waycross here this fall in about a day
and a half. He reports that the roads
were in excellent condition on his former
trip, and hopes they will be as fine this
trip.

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

‘‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see

ELKINS & PRICE

Davidsonian Office

Agents for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

Announcing Our New
Location Near Post Office

Mrs. Clyde Champe and her little| best for the honor of old Davidson.”
daughter, of Atlanta, are visiting Mrs. | If there is added to this spirit, the high-
Champe’s parents, Mr, and Mrs. S. J.|toned morale and stimulus which a capacity
Christenbury, laudience will inspire, Davidson bids more ;

aes |than fair to add another victory to her al-| Sophomore Day was pronounced a success

Miss Lillian Kelly, of Charlotte, and | ready illustrious galaxy of forensic laurels, | #"d will he held cach year, some time in the
Miss Irene Clark, of Mooresville were| | fall. The intention was to have it earlier
the guests of Miss Grace Goodrum, last | | this year, but weather conditions Prevented
week-end. | jit. This day will in no way interfere with
{the annual freshmen cap burning day, but
| will only be used as an alternative for haz-

— FOR RENT —

Masquerade Costumes - Party
Favors - Novelties - State your

|lowed by an ill-named comedy by Hodgkin
jand Craig, and two negro songs by the Kiser
| brothers.

NORTON 9 BARBER

SHOP

wants. Mail orders give
prompt attentien. a“ Always Something Good

to Eat

NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON

Southern Awning &DecoratingCo. ALUMNI NEWS

9 E. Fifth Se
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mrs. W. H. Wooten spent last week | (Continued from page 7)

with friends in Greensboro, N. C.

le
| He has accepted a call to the Claiborne | ™8-
Avenue Presbyterian Church. |

Rev. W. B. Knox has moved from}
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE North Fork, W. Va., to Statesville, N. Ga
WHITE BUS LINE The Alumni Editor wishes to pay aj
Leaves Charlotte word of tribute and praise to the At-|
Ghatlotte 22 = 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30 lanta Alumni Association for the splen-
Huntersville _. ---. -_.. -___ 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10 did reception and luncheon extended to
pense BS Seon eee 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25 the Glee Club at the Ansley Hotel on |
Moe te 2:18 Giay__| Saturday, December 8th.
Mroutmane. 020 = ee Tae 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15 The Alumni of Davidson, are loyal
Statesville;swe= 2a2. ek ae 9:30 12:30 3:05 7 :30 everywhere to Davidson men, but may Bid veering
A. M. A. M. P.M. P.M. we say here that the Atlanta Alumni are SORE emai Contes
Leaves Statesville super-loyal. You are to be congratulated bi actual benefit
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M. for your fine spirit and your love for skin,
Stotesville;osee ys a 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30 your Alma Mater.
PUPOULMANecccs. coe Sees Soe 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45 + -
NMooresvillene® aie, ne ears 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10 Every member of the Glee Club, and
: Davidsoneees) 22k ee 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25 the entire student body express to you
Cornelitisieccs 2202 Sav eee 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30 their appreciation for your kindness. * One, }
Huntersville -. --.. -.. ____ 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45 + ae
GCliarlotte:-:.5 2 oes eae 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30 Alumni Editor. e e
For Further Information See Driver $250 In Prizes
CALENDAR

This is the new Hinged Cap on Williams’ Shaving
Cream. Williams’ is the only shaving cream having
this convenience feature. We want you to tell us
how the cap appeals to you. So we make this offer :

Thursday, December 13—
7:30 p. m., Eumenean Society.
7:30 p. m., Phi Society.
Friday, December 14—

7:00 p. m., Lyceum Course.

8:00 p. m., Intercollegiate debate
between Davidson and Wash-
ington and Lee.

Saturday, December 15—

Bid Day.

Sunday, December 16—

10:00 a. m., Bible Classes.

1:15 a. m., Christian Endeavor.

2:00 p. m., Ministerial Band.

6:15 p. m., Y. M.C. A.
Tuesday, December 17—

7:00 p. m., Pandienic Society.

7:15 p. m., Metrophilian Society.
Wednesday, December 18—

7:30 p. mi, Prayer Meeting.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value
of the Williams’ Hinged Cap, we offer the following
prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes,
$25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5
each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eli-
gible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans
deemed worthy of prizes, the full of the prize
will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight
March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon
thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans
but write on one side of paper only, putting name,
address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address
letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co.,
Glastonbury, Conn.

SODA CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

201 North Tryon St.

