Boa
aptists

Ti: DA VID SONIAN

Good-bye
PADDLE

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

a

+5
Vol.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12; 1923 :

No. is

STUDENT BODY ABOLISHES ALL FORMS OF HAZING

JUNIOR SPEAKING GOES ON RECORD MOST
BRILLIANT AFFAIR STAGED AT DAVIDSON

Black Cat Cabaret Closes Period
of Gay Festivities

Gymnasium is Scene of Elabor-
ately Planned Fete Which
Served as Fitting Finale.

King Tut, of Luxor Valley fame, re-
nowned for the dazzling splendor and gaud
of his Egyptian court of antiquity, blinked
his eyes and shrunk into the shadows when
he beheld the ostentatious display of Junior
week,

Junior Speaking of 1923, just past, the
product of tireless effort and wonderful clas
spirit that speaks in no meager terms for
the class of ’24, goes down in Davidson an-
nals as the grandest social occasion ever
held in the little Presbyterian’ village.

The Maroon and Gold, in the form of a
huge flag bearing the numerals of the Junior
class, was raised Friday morning with ap-
propriate exercises, and justly proud did
it wave throughout the entire speaking oc-
casion.

If any one event of the week's calendar
could be singled out as THE successful
item of the festive affair, without any doubt

- the Black Cat Cabaret, held Saturday night,
would be the unanimous choice. It was the
glorious climax toward which every detail
pointed and for which many days of prepar-
ation were spent.

A mammoth electric sign in Maroon and
Gold, flashed out'a welcome from the bal-
cony of the gymnasium to the Black Cat Cab-
aret, imported from little old New York by
M. Flop Beaver.

FOUR JUNIOR ORATORS WILL
COMPETE AT COMMENCEMENT

Smith, Elkins, Cox and Walthall
Chosen from Field of Prom-
inent Society Orators. .

The event which names the social oc-
casion of the spring teok place on Friday
Those who
won the right to contest again at commence-
for the Junicr orator’s medal were

B. Walthall, R. H. Smith

morning of Junior Speaking.

ment
W. M. Cox, D.
and L. D. Elkins.

Preliminaries were prevoiusly held in each
of the literary societies in which two men
from each society were selected to repre-
sent their respective societies in this con-
test. The contest was held ate 10:30 A. M.
on Friday, March 30. Professor Wagner
presided and Dr. ‘T. W. Lingle pronounced
the invocation.

H. M. White, the first speaker took as his
subject The Individual Responsibility.. He
compared America today to Judah in the
times of Micah, showing that while Judah
was the most moral nation of its time it was
not excused from the curse of God, so while
America is not the worst nation today, it
will not be excused from its responsibility
as a nation. White also demonstrated that
the responsibility of the nation is the re-
sponsibility of each citizen of that nation.

C. E. Hodgin was the next speaker. His

(Continued on Page 5)

(Continued on Page 7)

Three One-Act

Plays By Dra-

matic Club Feature Speaking

Three one-act plays, J do, by E. .T. Wool-
folk, The Christian Slave, by H. K. Russell,
and Uncle Tommy's Harem, by W. F. Gal-
laway, were presented before a capagity
audience on Friday night of Junior Speaking
in Shearer Hall, .All three plays, written
and acted by the Davidson Dramatic Club,
met with an enthusiastic reception from
the mixed audience of visitors, townspeople
and students.

The first play, / Do, was a_ delightful
light comedy. Charles, played by E. T.
Woolfolk, was the leading character. As
he explained to Elizabeth, played by Jean
Martin, at the opening of the play, the girl
with. whom he had been in love, had jilted
him owing to a misuriderstanding. Peggy,
playéd by Mrs. Josephine Moore, thinking
that Charles had fallen for another girl, had
set a wild pace and had become engaged to
a silly young Englishman. At the wedding
ceremony, after Reggie, played by Flop
Beaver, had sworn eternal love, a fire had
broken out which prevented Reggie from
fulfilling her part int the ceremony.

At this juncture Reggie himself comes
in and shows to Archie, played by Neal
Jones, that he is not anxious for the cere-

mony to be completed. Soon he leaves and
in comes Peggy. who, supposedly, has been
sick since the fire. Charles re-enters here
and reveals to her Reggie’s sentiments. He
discovers that she is no more anxious to
complete the ceremony than Reggie, and
Elizabeth discovers that she did not>really
faint. ;

Again Reggie comes in and Peggie pro-
poses to go through the ceremony in prac-
tice. When she responds to the love and
obey clause she answers most emphatically
“T do not.” Consternation reigns, but soon
everyone is satisfied and Charles, being in-
nocent, as Peggie has discovered, answers
in a triumphant affirmative to the same
question

The whole play was unusually successful,
the audience fully appreciating both the ex-
cellent characterization of the play by the
author and the manner in which the actors
interpreted their various parts. The acting
of E. T/ Woolfolk was up to his usuai
standard and Flop Beaver easily usceeeded
with his character part. Nirs. Moore made
a charming heroine.

(Continued on Page 3)

Court of Control Adopted by
Overwhelming Majority.

Time-Honored Custom Displaced
After Three Months Trial
Under New Regime.

ISSUE HARD FOUGHT.

Minority Votes to Make Decision
of Majority Unanimous.

The student bedy of Davidson college
on Saturday? April 7th, voted ‘unanimously
to abolish every form of hazing. . The bal-
lot was taken at the close of a three months’
period during which hazing Was experiment-
ally abandoned and the court of control
adopted as a means of handling the fresh-
men class. As a result of the action the
student body was granted a holiday.

The vote was taken after a short discus-
sion, which was opened by a talk by Buck
Currie. Following his speech J. 1. Smith
read the report of the Court's meetings dur-

ing the time of its functioning and he was
succeeded by speakers from the three up-
per classes who gave their views on the
question.

The movement culminating in the final
abolition of all hazing originated among the
leaders of the student body in the, Senior
class. ‘Their plan of substituting the Court
of Control for the Vigilance Committee was
endorsed unanimously by their classmates
and when the plan was proposed to the stu-
dent body they approved it. for three
months’ trial, The election Saturday marked
the end of that period and the vote cast
showed the realization of the the student
body as a whole of the value of the system
which is free of hazing.

The Court of Control plan has been tried
at other institutions and was adopted by
the originators of the
thorough

abolition movement

investigation of its
The attitude of the

student hedy towards its record during the

miy after a

merits and demerits.
past three months show a realization of its
faults coupled with an apreciation of the
fact that it has functioned very
the circumstances

well under

(Continued on Page 3)

Davidsonian Staff

1923-24
This is the first issue of the Da-
vidsonian under the guiding hand of

the newly chosen staff. Liston El-
kins, editor-in-chief, announces his
staff as follows:

\W. Z. Bradford, managing editor; C.
M. S. Mellwaine and H. B. Price
assistant managing editors; W. F.
Gallaway, athletic editor; W. M. Hes-

ton, Peanut Parcher and Exchange
editor; W. M. Cox, A. C. Wildman

and J. A. Lake, associate editors; and
R. R. Jones, alumni editor.

The open Forum, formerly handled
by an individual editor, will now be
conducted directly-by the editor-in
chief.

R. L. Price, business manager, an-
nounces his staff as follows: Watt
McCain, circulation manager; P. J.
Story, subscription manager; G. A.
McClain, J. L. McLean, W. H. Crom-
well and J. A. Thompson, assistants.

CAPTAIN GALLOWAY PILOTS
RED AND BLACK TO VICTORY

Red and Black Speedsters Wipe
Out Last Season’s Defeat at
Hands of Sandlappers.

Davidson's cinder packers nosed out the
South Carolina the last
few events of a closely contested meet at
Columbia last Thursday, winning by a three
and third points margin. The final
score was 47 2-3 to 54 1-3 in favor of David-
A drizzling rain throughout slowed
up the meet considerably, but fairly good

University of in

one
son,

made in all events and the
enthusiasm of the small crowd attending was
aroused by the close score.

South Carolina took the lead in most of
the track with Davidson showing
best form in the ficld contests. Davidson
men, however were finishing’ second and
third in most of the run, while Davidson,
in the weight and field events, except broad
and high jéimps, was showing clean cut su-
periority.

The Wildcats placed first and second in the
three events, shot put, high hurdles and jav
elin, while South Carolina accomplished the
feat only once in the two mile run.

records were

events,

Hendrix showed good form in the dashes,
id start in the hun
for the
straight-away, was unable
Wallace's

second in both races

hut getting Away to a!
dred, and running the two-twenty
first
to

time onoa

overcome leads and finished

y, of Davidson, literally stratted
his stuff scoring 13 points for his team,
chalking up two firsts and a second) Gracey

the versatile athlete
on the field, placing in two weight events
and the high hurdles.

Streiheck, next to Gracey in pomts, scored

proved himself most

for Davidson, turning in nine marks for the

(Continued on Page 2)

WILDCAT WARRIORS OPEN
DIAMOND-SEASON AND CONQUER
SOUTH CAROLINA ON CINDERS

Split With Oak Ridge—Carolina
Loss and Great Contest With
State Open:Season.

\iter splitting a brace of games with Oak
Ridge in tht season's openers, Captain Pat °
led his fighting nine to Gastonia Easter Mon-
day to meet Coach Fetzer’s Tar Heels. But
for the second inning the Wildcats played
stellar ball and Carolina had to fight for
their 12 to 5 victory.

With Trinity college cancelling and Fur-
man rained out, the Wildeats were idle
Monday when the Techmen played on Sprunt
Field. larry Curtis and Neely Hunter
staged a great pitchers’ battle, with honors
about even, but an error followed by John-
son's double gave State the bnly run of the
game.

N.C. State Game

In one of the best exhibitions of base-
hall ever seen on Sprunt Field, Davidson's
fighting Wildcats on Monday afternoon
spilled the dope and held the conquering
N.C. State nine to a score of 1 to 0. The
weather was cool for baseball. Spectators
shivered in their seats, but not one could
tear himself away from the gripping battle
being staged on the diamond. From the toss-
ing of the first ball across the plate until
the Jast man wastout in the ninth inning,
the issue of the game hung as upon a thread.

State’s only run came in the sixth inning.
Ruth bunted, Brice made a wild throw over
the first baseman’s head, and Ruth advanced
to second when Gladstone was thrown out
at first. Red Johnson stepped to bat, slam-
med a two-bagger. into the left field fence,
Correll also connected up
with a single, but Nealy Hunter pulled out
of the hole without further scoring, State
threatened again in the eighth, but brilliant
work in the field prevented a score.

and scored Ruth,

Davidson's hest chance to score was in the
third inning when, with one man out, Hunter
singled through short-stop, Richards was

(Continued on page 8)

The elections for the past ten days of
A. M. Hillhouse as president of the stu-
dent, body; W. T. Jones as president of the
Y. M. C. A., and W. M. Heston as editor-
in-chief of the annual have seen three of
the most important campus positions cap-
ably filled for the coming year of 1923-'24.

In the student ‘body election Hillhouse
won out over E, S. Faison after the other
candidates, \V. M. Cox, R. R. Jones and J.
I. Smith had previously been eliminated.
J. P. Hendrix and M. S. Beall were elected
as the two vice-presidents from a field of
contestants composed of A. W. McAllister,
A. F, Milhouse, J. R. Briggs and H. B.
Price. Tom Baker was elected secretary
and treasurer over Alex McMillan, L. P.
Cox and N. E. Sappenfield.

Pilots Of Student Activities
Selecded For Ensuing Year

In the election of Y. M. C. A. 0..cers last
Thursday morning Jones was elected over
the other nominees composed of A, M. Me-
Bryde, J. L. Mclean, and W. M. Cox. Me-
Lean and Cox were eliminated on the first
ballot, Jones and McBryde running on the
second, the latter automatically getting vice-
Harry Price was elected as sec-
retary and treasurer over Mac Beall.

president.

The election of editor-in-chief of Quips
and Cranks was a class election in which the
Juniors chose Heston by a one vote mar-
gin over Watt McCain to produce the an-
nual next year. Other naminees were Chip-
man and Jones. R. H. Smith was elected
business manager over O. J. Allison, the
other assistant manager of this year.

HATS O

FF TO YOU ‘24!

ete revere
