-4 THE

DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON.........-...Editor-in-Chiel
D. . ani

OF
ditor

s

we
EXCHANGE

COLUMN
~w

Study Yourself |
To everyoman there comes a time when |
he stops and considers just what kind of a}
man he is. All of us would like to know |
what others think about us. This is an easy
thing to learn if we will only observe our!
fellowmen. We all know the men who are!

popular on the campus. They are men al-|

MANAGING EDITOR'S
SCRAP

It is a well recognized fact that no man is
free from mistakes. But still more universal
is the recognition that the printer seldom
misses an opportunity to make one. Next to
a managing editor and the Republican idea
of the Democratic platform, there is nothing
| in the world that is in itself so much a mis-
\take as a printer. .

The printer never misses the golden op-
portunity of making a mistake. If he can’t

ways before us. In every movement they |

’ A
are at the head. We have an unusual op-| A Woman's Question
portunity to study what things and char-| Do you know you have asked for the costli-
acteristics make a man a leader and popular. est thing

If we will only study the men who are} Ever made by the hand above—
doing things we will learst the formula of | A woman's heart, a woman's life,
success. When you see something in a man} And a woman's wonderful love?
that you like and admire try to cultivate it}
yourself. When you get discouraged and| Do you know you have asked for this price-
blue and think that there’s no use trying less thing
any more, go to someone that you know is} As a child might ask for a toy—
conquerer of himself and he can tell you| Demanding what others have died to win,
what to do, With the reckless dash of a boy?

It is an easy thing to drift along and to}
feel satisfied with ourselves, but it is hard | You have written my lesson of duty out,

i ih -First Managing Editor
. M. Second Managing itor
. R, .» Assignment itor itor
Athletic itor itor
- Alumni itor itor
0 BM. COX. cceccosecceee
oe PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD........+seseeeees Manager W. F. GALLOWAY... 605 Assistant Manager
BARRINGTON, 3 Cc. MINTER A.
MITH, C. F. y, ._C » J. A.
RTLEBY: J. M. McINTOSH, CL Aube NANCHEORD. B. V. D.
i BUSINESS DEPARTMENT |
R. L. PRICE, J. H, DAVIS @: & WEERS and W.'G, GUILE ee Advertising Soli sete |
7 i de a y le i. . is MULE Li Bes eccecescere vertisin : OIC:
FAMES McCUTCHEN Co oeveone Office ‘Assistant E. J. ROSCH......-esseeee Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mg

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres. McILWAINE, C. M. PRICE, R. L.
SMITH, 'R. H.,’ Vice-Pres. McIVER, D.- D. SHARBE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V:, Sec.-Treas. | MAUZE, G. W. WALTHALL, D._B.
ALLISON, 0. J. MOFFENT, A._N. WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, MP MOORE, W. H. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R. PATTON, J. H. WHITE, H. M.
GALLOWAY, W. F. POMEROY, W. L. WILLIAMS, J. M.
LAKE, J. A. PRICE, H.'B.

A new vision that was opened to all of us last week was South America.
Any who missed the lecture by Mr. Paul Vanorden Shaw, of Sao Paulo,
Brazil, lost an opportunity seldom afforded to learn of the progress and}
development of the continent in almost every line. In fact, such a glowing |
picture was painted for us that it would seem almost impossible to appreciate |
this new and growing country without a visit to it in person.

D.

lL

We would like to be able to’hear soon that every man passed all his work |
for the first semester of this year. However, since we almost fear that such |
a circumstance would cause a general state of alarm here, we must be content

r.
i

to admit that we are rank failures. If you; Manlike you have questioned me;

haven't any friends you may know that! Now stand at the bar of my woman's soul,
there is something the matter with you and Until I have questioned thee.

not that everybody is down on you. If you!

are not happy there is a skeleton in your You require your mutton shall alway be hot,
jcloset somewhere. Don’t blame others for Your socks and your shirts shall be whole;
|your misfortunes—blame yourself.

It is a fine thing for a man to get by
‘himself and think. The great trouble with
most of us today is that we don’t think.| You require a cook for your mutton and
Thinking requires effort and we don’t want! beef ;

|to work any more than is necessary. We are| I require a far better thing;

|mostly cowards. We are afraid to face|A seamstress you're wanting for stockings
|ourselves. We have to live with ourselves | and shirts—

all the time and so it’s to our interest to, I look for a man and a king.

make of ourselves the best possible company. |

As pure as heaven your soul.

what we will of our lives, “They them-| And a man that the maker God

selves are makers of themselves.” | Shall look upon as he did on the first,
The best textbooks that we have are the And say, “It is very good.”

lives of the men around us. We see all the

|principles of psychology and philosophy I am fair and young, but the rose will fade

worked out in the lives of the people living From my soft young cheeks some day—

with us, Observe the good and commendable! Will you love me then, ’mid the falling

things of the personalities with which you | leaves,

come in contact and strive to get these into) As you did ’mid the bloom of May?

your own life. By thought and observation

we can perform wonders with ourselves.
“As a man thinketh.”

Is your heart an ocean so strong and deep
I may launch my all on its tide?

to wish that all have gotten better grades than they deserved and are deter-|
mined to work harder this semester that they may improve on their record.

So) pape

The Second Chance

A loving woman finds heaven or hell,
On the day she is made a bride.

|] require your heart be true as God’s stars,

We can by discipline of our thoughts make| A king for a beautiful realm called Home, |

D Examinations! ‘They are over—for some; I require all things that ar d and true
| but alas, for others! What a sense of relief | Mt shinwe dis ‘at pees ce Oy d
COACH YOUNGER jto those who passed! But how does the, e on Y

If you give this all, I would stake my life

|faillre make you feel? Does it not CRUE TS be all you demand of me

NCE the resignation of Coach Grey last fall, all eyes have been eagerly | you to feel out of heart? The secon ex-|

I
S watching to see who would be found to take charge of athletics at David- | amination on a text is harder usually than|

Nac ‘ | fi If you can not do this, a laund id cook
son and mold our future on the gridiron, the diamond, the basket-ball floor |the first. Let us go back to the beginning, oon pie « See te

and the cinder path. A position of such importance to us and to the name
and fame of the college abroad, and one holding out so many opportunities
to the man who fills it, of influencing all who are under his direction and
guidance, naturally requires a great amount of care and judgment to be
properly filled. Yet now that the selection has been made, and the offer
accepted, we are all confident that it was done wisely, and that the man who
is coming here to take charge will handle matters in a way tending to enhance
the fame of Davidson.

Monk Younger comes to us with an enviable record, both as a college
athlete and as a coach. He is remembered and talked of still as the man who
made four letters at Davidson his first year here, and his prowess was more
notably demonstrated after he left Davidson and went to Virginia Polytechnic
Institute. Also, at that school for four years he has been employed as one of
their coaches, and has turned out some excellent men at end on their football
teams, which was the position he supervised, also some fine basket-ball teams
all of which were under his direction. V. P. I. gives up Younger with great
reluctance, but it is with greater joy and enthusiasm that Davidson will wel-
come him as our head coach next fall, and under his hand aspire to send
forth athletic teams that will spread her name far.

TD.

i

A LOAD LIFTED

NKNOWN, perhaps, to a number of our supporters, The Davidsonian

has for a large part of the time since its founding by the Class of 1915,

had a debt upon it. Particularly two and three years ago, an increase was
made in this debt, and while a number of efforts had been made to get it settled,
the present staff took over the management of the paper with a debt of prac-
tically eighteen hundred dollars on its hands. Of course, this was highly
detrimental to the best interests and ultimate success of the paper, and has
all along been a source of much concern, although perhaps to a large extent
the money was spent in a way that helped build up The Davidsonian to the
place that it now holds in the eyes of the college, the students and the alumni.
Since a number of attempts to pay off this debt have failed, we are even
more grateful and appreciate more than otherwise would have been done,
the action of the college, the faculty and the student body in giving us a
chance to accept a discount that had been offered and settle for once and all
_this account that-has-hung over and at times threatened the existence of the
paper. ‘We would like to take this opportunity to thank each and every one
who has helped us in this matter, and to promise that our actions in the
future will, as far as we are able to make them, do justice to the confidence
that has been placed in us. Further, with this load lifted) we can turn all
our attention to a better and more representative paper, and hope to accomplish

"a great deal in that direction.

and find the trouble;

Whose fault is it that you failed? Is it
your own, the professor's, the college’s, or
whose? What are we going to do about it,
sit down, and fold our hands and say: “He
did not want me to pass; so he made it hard,
and asked stuff not practicable at all—it’s
all his fault!”
| Did all the others fail, too? No, most of
them passed and more than passed. Where
does the trouble lie, then? It is within us.

mates who have passed their tickets. If we
do not use this opportunity, how can we
blame the other fellow? Let us give blame
|to whom blame is due.

to pass on these examinations on which we
have failed. When the time comes for our
second ones, let us not be caught napping,
but let us get busy and study long and hard
that these failures may be erased.

Only half of our work is done. Examina-
tions come again in the spring. Let us be
prepared. Yn
| D.
| PHI BETA KAPPA WILL TAKE
| (Continued from Page 1)

Dr. P. F. Henderson
Pfor. W. G. Perry.....
Dr. J..M. McConnell...

. 97
98
99

| Prof. Reid Smith. ...............00cce0s 01
| Dr. C. A. Cornelson.... - 04
| Prof. BisDieKertsveiicstcscl secs cccesca X
|Mr.'S. C. Williams...............ec005 05
Prot.ck, J eRrwitsevtecscsass sees siecs

| As an-honorary member, Dr. H. B. Ar-
| buckle, of Hampden-Sidney, has been sent an
| invitation to join.

The members in course are elected from
the upper quarter of the senior class, and,
each year, must not exceed an eighth of the
total number in the class. There is no set
grade in scholarship. However, the five men
who have already been elected averaged
above ninety. They are:

Davidson, R. F.; Gamble, W. A.; Guille,
W. G.; Ogden, D. H.; Smith, H. H.

At commencement another election will be
held, and several other men from the senior
class will be initiated.

Bug wait—is he to blame? |

We have the same advantages that our class- |

Yet, O ye of Davidson spirit, let us not}
lose heart. ‘There is still a chance for us|

| You can hire, with little to pay,

| But a woman’s heart and a woman's life
Are not to be won that way.”

| —Mrs. Browning.

|A man named Du Bose met a girl,

| Who lisped through her teeth of pure pearl.
“T’ll hug you or kiss you,” he swore with an
| oath,

| She lisped with surprise, “O, Mr. Du Both.” |

Whirlwind—Say, did you ever kiss a girl)
jin a quiet spot?

| Hurricane—Yes, but the spot was quiet |
jonly while I was kissing it.

|

It’s easy to yell like a madman, |

| When the team comes through like a shot ; |
But it takes all your stuff

| When the going is rough;

| So show all the spirit you've got. : |

| “There was a strange man here to see yal
| today, papa,” said little Ethel, on meeting
; her father in the hall,

“Did he have a bill?”

“No, pap; he just had a plain nose.”

“Vy don’t youse pull down the curtains |
when youse make love to your wife? I saw)
| youse last night.
| “Hal Ha! De joke’s on you. Oi wasn’t
home las’ night.”

}

Jupiter—Say, Poll, guess you had a swell |

196 time around at Venus’s the (other night, | were Misses Mary Lee Nichols,

didn’t you?
Apollo—Yep, nectar.

peri Baws |
|

What the Seaman Saw |
Church was over; the congregation filed |

| slowly out and gathered in little chattering

| groups. ‘

| Presently the minister came up and joined

|a select little party. He introduced an old

| sea captain to the leading light of the village,

}a wealthy Mr. Smith.

| . “You must have seen each other in church

| today,” said the beaming clergyman.

| “Sure,” said the old salt. “e was sleppin’

in the next bunk to me.”

| make then accidentally, he makes them on
|purpose. He counts that day lost during
| which he has not made a couple dozen glar-
ling errors. His eyes refuse to close at night
he has changed a “plea” to a “flea,”
or a “coat” to a “goat.” He has violated
the custom of his clan if he fails to turn “b”
upside down and make a “q” out of it, or
unless he changes “p” to “d.” He changes
plurals to singulars, and in his attempt to
make a glorious mistake by spelling “stellar”
with one “1,” overlooks the fact that it would
have been much more romantic to have made
George Mauze a “Stella guard.”

The sentimental bit of verse, “He kissed
|her under the silent star,” was once made
by the poetic printer to appear, “He kicked
her under the cellar stairs!” It is so easy
and amusing for the printer to change the
‘college “bell” to “pell,” “dell” to “tell,” or
|perhaps something else.

Just before exams, the students of David-
|son were surprised to see the cuss word
“gosh,” staring them in the face from the
{columns of the Davidsonian, when it should
have been nothing but a minor “gash.”

| The printer told a whopper when he said
| Walthall was writing a book review on
|“Bobbit and His Freedom.” The poet from
ithe Shenandoah thinks his efforts to write
reviews on both “Babbit” and “His Free-
dom” are little appreciated by the printer.
| They knocked the “mettle” out of us when
|they spelled it “metal.”

There is salvation for practically every
| person on the globe, but we fear there is an
|unavoidable, certain doom awaiting the
knight of the press.

| TD.

NUT SUNDAES

By O. J. ALLISON
During the warm days of last week Mason
Field was seen scampering over the campus
playing tag, or something like that with
Twitty, Snow Ball, and the other janitors.

|
|
|

Room No. 101 West .is hereafter to be
'known as the Pest House of Davidson.
| Another name sugested was “Home for Aged
land Infirm Musicians.”

The prize bone during exams goes to Bill
McClain of Sweetwater, Tenn. On Eco
exam when he read the question: “Is there
such a thing as an Economic Law?” he
ai that was the title of a book.

Attention, all ye would-be yodlers! Elliot
Haney is planning to give a course in yodling
to a limited number. See him at once if
you want to get in it—E. West Dormitory.

Bevo Davis is seeking information about
a lost crate of oranges. He attempted to

|carefilly conceal’*them but someone dis-

covered his hiding place and now Bevo wants
to know who got the oranges.

Information has just been received that
John Bachman has purchased a derby from
Sydenstricker,

The yells for Captain George last Satur-
day night caused a little confusion as to
which Captain George they were for.

P. C. Henderson now vies with Walthall
and Galloway in the realm of poetry. The
following is his first attempt:

I want to be a tough,
I want to smoke and chew;
I want to run around at nights
Like other fellows do.

This week-end found quite a number of
the fair sex on the Hill. Among others
Sarah Jami-
son, Jarie Gilmer and Grace Montgomery of
Charlotte, Misses Evelyn Goswick and
Elizabeth Norfleet of Winston-Salem, and
Miss Lila Henkel of Statesville.

Special mention in this column is necessary
of Blanco White’s new smoking jacket.
Have you seen it’ yet?

TD.

Anciano madre Hubbardo
Went a la cubardo

A toma su pobre doggo un bone,
Butta cuan ella got thera

El cubardo was bara

Y soel pobrs doggo doggone.
