’ it meant a hundred years ago, but, in spirit, it means much

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

Open Forum

Exchanges

Bull-ettes

(This deartment is conducted by the editor,
for the benefit of those members of the stu-
dent body, or faculty, who desire to express
their opinions on any matter which might arise
during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
Davideonian staff that the column will be con-
ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
that the students will express themselves freely
and enter into open-hearted discussions on
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. All articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.
| Monday.)

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p: m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS..--------- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L, PRICE-.----- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Cc. M. S. McILWAINE..----- Managing Editor , ; \
; Al DARBcc2c2 Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD...-.------ Associate Editor
H. B, PRICE.....Assistant Managing Editor A. C, WILDMAN-. -Associate Editor
W. F, GALLO = Athletic Editor V. M. COX....- -Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON...-.- Peanut Parcher Editor ORAATUISON Geeee ores sa ae ue, Alumni Editor
: Business Staff ee
PeRieBRIGGSsscevcsse ss cease ccsee es Advertising K. S. McALPIN Subscription
. W.. Ocland Advertising W. H. CRO _---------Bookkeeper
P. J. STORY .-Subscription A. M. HURD. _-Service Department
JioMisGARRISONe= <i sssbeccueecscouce Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT |
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WALTHALL, D. B., Pres. GIBBS, L. B.
a D, B., Vice-Pres. EN A

WATT McCAIN, Manager

PATTON, J. H., Sec'y-Treas. HURD Q » GD.
ALLISON, “0. J. MARSIHTA K. SELSER, J.'M.
*APPLEBY, J. M. MILHOU SHAW, if. 1.
BEALL, McP. S. MILTON STORY, P, J,
BOWIE, A. Y. MOFI . WHITE, Hy M.
EARNEST, J. 'R. MONK WILLIAMS, J. M.

VK, ( A
O'CONNOR, FE, P.

EDITORIAL

A REQUISITE FOR COLLEGE MEN

“The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility, vig-
orous action or operation; energy, active force.”

HESE are the words old Noah Webster used in’ his definition of

ACTIVITY. Back in 1828, when Doctor Webster first published his |

dictionary, ACTAVITY meant virtually the same thing that it means
today. This definition of a century ago still stands. If the old Doctor were
alive today and should he permitted to review and revise his etomological work,
he would probably make only one change in the above mentioned definition. It |
would not be the addition of superfluous words, or the subtraction of any |
part thereof. He would probably deviate from the ordinary channels of dic- |
tionaryography and deposit beneath each individual word of the definition a|
flock of the heaviest, blackest underscore lines he could find in his printery and |
terminate the whole works with a peg-leg exclamation mark. It is far from |
impossible to imagine the old gentleman adding a personal NB, admonishing |
the readers of his explanatory book to pay particular heed to the words under- |
scored, :

The definition has not changed. It means the same thing technically that |
more, This addi- |
tional meaning can not be conveyed by additional words—the underscores fill |
the bill. ACTIVITY is one of the greatest passages in Webster's book, and |
it merits daily reading,
ACTIVITY is a state or quality. It is a positive, real condition. A slothful |
person can not believe himself active, or make the next-door neighbor believe |
him active. It is an actual condition which must exist. It is a quality one must |
really possess.

Real ACTIVITY is vigorous. There must be vibration, tension, determi-
nation. Many a man.has worn himself into a nervous collapse: by vigorous
activity and strain, it is true, but many more have stagnated because of inac-
tivity. The man who trains himself to leap from the starting line at the crack
of the pistol learns to anticipate the start with a tingle of life. He lives with his
hopes at the point of tension and is prepared to get off with a start that will
carry him well into the race, while the man of indolence is leaving his mark,

ACTIVITY is essential. In an age characterized by individual initiative
and competitive enterprise, one’s ACTIVITY must necessarily be taxed to the
limit. Some people acquire wealth and happiness without the expense of work
and effort, it is true, but few and extraordinary they are. The laws of nature
are made for the ordinary, normal man, and if we scorn ACTIVITY because
some particular person has prospered without it, we must first assure ourselves
that we were created with special endowments and extraordinary faculties,
under the godmothership of Lady Luck. Even then the clock may strike the
twelfth hour when our attainment is at its highest pitch, and the beautiful Queen
of the Ball will have to fly back to her little attic home among the cinders, and
be content with her normal Cinderella self. God mothers fail even in the story
books, and surer is their failure in realistic life.

Combine an honest effort, a sincere desire, and intense ACTIVITY (and
the greatest of these is ACTIVITY )—there you have a formula that beats
godmothers all hollow. :

Vigorous ACTIVITY means attainment.
worse than inertness; it is discouraging in its nature and

push awhile.
D:
A DREAM COME TRUE

The solons of Davidson have roused themselves to answer a need which
has been pounding at their doors since the first structure was erected on the
Davidson campus. They have shaken off their slumber. They are accepting
the old maxim which places “preventative” and “cure” in the balance for’a
weighing, and which awards the blue ribbon to “prevention.”

Davidson is to be organized for protection against fire, and to systematize

the preventative work, a chief fire marshall, and assistants, are appointed..to

the work. The-students of the college are the firemen.
equipment has been secured.

__ The authorities of the college have answered the challenge presented to
. Will the students do their part ?

The proper

|

Half-hearted ACTIVITY is,
demoralizing in its |
effect. Push, and push hard, or move out of the way—someone else wants to

| A PLACE FOR WORK
|

| Are our literary societies decadent? Shall
|they, with their traditions and erstwhile
|power on the campus, become mere mem-
lorics, like rooming in Chambers and haz-
ling? These are questions which every stu-
dent interested in public speaking and literary
work should ask himself.

| At one time the socicties were the most
| powerful organizations on the hill, and there
|has always been a’ lively interest shown in
them until recently, but during the last three
years the interest in them has been on a
steady decline. Shall we allow this lack of
interest to continue? Can we, in honor, per-
mit the traditions and spirit of the societies,
so carefully fostered by our predecessors, to
pass away from our life on the campus?
Aside from the questions of honor and the
perpetuating of the customs of our fathers,
there is the undeniable fact that literary so-
ciety work, when entered into in the proper
spirit, is an invaluable aid to us after we go
out in the world. The ability to speak well
in public is a thing which every one of us
will have need of in our careers, and right
here in college is the best possible place to
learn, Shall we neglect this opportunity,
offered to us in the literary societies ?

The logical and practical way for us to
restore the interest in the societies is for the
old members to get down and work hard for
their societies, secure all possible new mem-
bers, and, most important of all, make the
meetings interesting. There can be no in-
| terest in a pepless program. Let’s work
j hard for our. societies, and soon there will
be no need to solicit members ; they will seek
admission. If we are able to achieve this
state of affairs, then the societies will revert
to their former position of interest and im-
portance among the college organizations.

"24.

BOOK LISTS

The literary minds seem to be turned more
than ever to formulating lists of “Books
Every American Should Read,” “Foremost

| Books of All Times,” etc. Pick up a late

issue of a current magazine and skim its
pages. and among the articles will be some
such formulation. Men and women in all
branches of life are making their lists, in-
dividually and as groups. College profes-
sors are listing the worn volume of their
libraries.

But what is it all about? Surely it is
not for mere comparison. It is to bring be-
| fore the minds of the people literary tastes.
In this age of promiscuous devouring, that
quantity. might not kill out quality, these
books are presented.

And yet are we, college men, availing our-
selves of our library, using these lists as a
guide 2

The excuse eternal comes—time! But we
should make reading a vital part of our liv-
ing and take time to live!

' We can find time for other things which
we consider important, But after all, far
greater than the actual fragment of knowl-
edge which we collect is the ability to learn
and above that the desire for it. There is
nothing that will keep the mind keener than

| the “good book habit.”

| Pick for yourself a creditable list and for-

| mulate a system by which you may follow it.

Don't just stop killing time—fill it use-
\ fully!

INDIVIDUAL PHOTOS MADE
FOR YEAR BOOK

Mr. O. May, a representative of the
White Studio of New York City, was in
Davidson from Monday morning until
| Thursday afternoon, taking pictures for
|Quips and Cranks. Mr. May is an ex-
|pert photograhpher of that studio, be-
ing interested particularly in theatrical
work. Individual pictures were taken of
members of the Senior and Junior
-classes.. Greup pictures of the varsity
and freshman football squads were al-
so taken. Mr. May will return in the
Spring to complete the photographic
work,

At the 1923 convention of Omicron Delta
Kappa, which was held at Richmond Uni-
versity, the fraternity voted to accept the in-
vitation of Zeta Circle, which is located at

Centre College, to make that place the scene | is sufficient:

of their fifth national convention. This bit

|
|
i
|
!
|

|

of good news is indeed fortunate, for it}
means that a representative group of college |

leaders will gather at Centre, a thing that
will not only benefit the local chapter.a great
geal, but will be a fine thing for the school |
at large.

Prof. James H. Hewlett, of the depart-
ment of English, was delegate from the local
chapter to the convention. »

Omicron Delta Kappa is the only national
organization that bases its existenec on the
recognition of campus leadership other than |
scholarship. Its ranks are made up of men
who have placed themselves at the head of
various branches of collegiate activity, and in
the schools wherein chapters are located it
covers a field entirely its own.

The various chapters are located as fol-
lows:

Alpha—Washington and Lee Univ.
Beta—Johns Hopkins Univ.
Gamma—University of Pittsburg.
Delta—Davidson College.
Epsilon—University of Richmond.
Zeta—Centre College. |
Eta—College of William and Mary. |
Theta—University of Akron.

|

In order that the student body in geteral |
may better understand the nature of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, we copy from the official
publication, The Circle, a section of an edi-
torial that throws some light on the works
of the association,

The requisites for membership in Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, are, first and foremost,
unquestionable character, and second, at- |
tainment of special distincition in at least
one of the following phases of collegiate ac-
tivity: Scholarship or marked proficiency in
one more collegiate departments; ath-
letics, both local and inter-collegiate; social
leadership, including conspicuous service to
the institution; literary societies and inter- |
collegiate contests; and publications. Since
these heads cover every form of campus
activity, any one who is a ‘leader is eligible;
and, since the membership is limited to three
per cent of the male matriculates in the in- |
stitution, a man to obtain membership must
be exceedingly prominent upon the campus
in at least one, and as it generally turns out
in two or more phases of college activities. |
The Omicron Delta Kappa key, therefore, |
signifies that its owner is a man of char- |
acter, possesses and has demonstrated quali- |
fications of ieadership, and has constantly
worked during his undergraduate life, for the |
best interests of his Alma Mater ; and unlike |
the emblem of a local organization, the sig-
nificance of the key is understood and appre-
ciated off its Gwn campus to an ever
increasing extent—Centre College Cento.

or

The Best Cosmetics

Many years ago an old New England lady
wrote out the following list of toilet articles
and advised all women to acquire and use
them:

First—Self-knowledge, a mirror showing
the form in the most perfect light.

Second—Innocence, a white paint beautiful
but easily soiled and requiring continual care
to preserve its luster.

Third—Modesty, a rouge giving a de-
lightful bloom to the cheeks.

Fourth—Contentment, an infallible beauti-
fier.

Fitth—Truth, a salve rendering the lips.
soft and delicious.

Sixth—Gentleness, a
sweetness to the voice.

Seventh—Good humor, a universal beauti-
fier.—Boston Transcript.

cordial imparting |

Through the efforts of Prof. nn, Gos-
nell, of the History Department of Furman
University, students of that institution, and
the citizens of Greenville will be brought
face to face this year with some of the prob- |
lems that confront the world today. A club |
called the International Relations Club has |
been organized on the campus to study such |
problems, and from time to time the Club |
will bring noted speakers from the national
organizations of similar clubs to Greenville
to discuss these problems before the Furman |
chapter, and all others who are interested. |

| lose nothing by, it.

The contest at Rock Hill was quite fire-ry.

Here’s an old one—But a word to the wise
“Some people sit and think;
others just sit.”

It hasn’t been so long since Davidson was
truly “full o° mud.”

The advertisers are not spending their
hard-earned shekels merely to support this
publication. Make it a point to see that they
The advertisers make it
possible for us to have a paper once a week.
Show your appreciation.

’Tis sad but true that some of the flower

/of Southern manhood come but for a four-

| worse it gets.

years’ loaf.

It is understood that the fence around the
new atheltic field is cyclone-proof—until a
cyclone hits it.
sight-seeing

The railroad removed the

platform at the station in order to make

those who ride feel above those who stare.

The further we go with this nonsense the
But, anyway, be thankful that
we didn’t use a whole column.

Bailey Groome pulls a lot of fish stories
(including write-ups)—but you can’t please
everybody.

Who Knows?

—That the first inter-collegiate football
games that a Davidson team took part in
were played in the fall of 1898 in Charlotte
against the U. of N. C. and the U. of S. C.
and that the score with Carolina was 12-0 in
favor of them, and with South Carolina the
game was a 0-0 tie.

—When the honor system was first estab-
lished,

—That at one time in Davidson history
every student who entered was. required to
sign a pledge that he would not take part in
hazing of any kind.

—That in Davidson’s early days the stu-
dents worked their way through school by
devoting pat of their time to working on a
farm owned by the school.

—That Davidson once had a preparatory
department in connection with its four-year
college course.

| —That the first commencement exercise was

held on the campus under a grove of trees
not far from where Shearer Hall now,

| stands,

EUMENEANS TAKE IN FIFTEEN
FRESHMEN

When the Eumenean society opened
her doors last Thursday evening to hold
the first meeting of the year 1923-24, a
group of new men entered with those

}old members who came back from last

year,

The initiation was held first, and then
after a warm welcome to the new men,
they, together with the old members,
took part in the interesting program
which followed.

The following list gives the names of
the Freshmen who entered:

Alexander, A. W.

Anderson, T. F,

Austin, H, M.

Taylor, W. F.

Winn, L. R.

Williams, C. W.

DeArmond, J. T.

Craig, J. O.

Ogden, W. C.

Woods, W. S.

Shelby, H. L.

Ernest, J. F.

Anderson, C. R.

Love, A. J.

Branch, H.

Among the speakers whom it was planned | national affairs abroad in the city, it was

to bring here are Senator Underwood, of ; felt on the university -cacapus that the citizens
Alabama; Congressman McSwain and ex-/of Greenville would appreciate an oppor-
Governor Ansel will also speak at one or/|tunity to hear authoritative discussions of
more open meetings. |these problems. For this reason the club

“4Zith such a widespread interest in inter- | was formed.—Furman Hornet.
