Dr. Henry Louis Smith
says he reads The David-
soni every week —as
regularly as The New
York Times.

TeDAVIDSONIAN

Coach Monk  Younger’s
visit on the Hill was too
late for a story The

‘Davidsonian this week,
pee will tell you about it
ater.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1923

No. 19

GAMMA CHAPTER PHI BETA KAPPA FRATERNITY

FORMALLY INSTAL

ED IN DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Charter Presented By President
Chase of University of North

Carolina
AN IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY

Doctor Henry Louis Smith De-
‘livers Oration to Distin-
guished Gathering
By D. B. WALTHALL
Ceremonies incident to the installation of
the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina of
the Phi Beta Kappa National Scholarship
Fraternity were held in Shearer Hall and
in the college library on the afternoon and
evening of Thursday, March Ist. This is
the greatest scholastic honor that could come
to any institution, ‘and it marks the com-
pletion of theefforts of Dr. J. M. McConnell
and the four charter members to secure the

charter grant.

A large number of distinguished alumni,
both of the fraternity and of the college,
were present for the occasion. At the after-
noon session Dr. H. W/ Chase, president of
the University of North Carolina, and rep-
resenting the United Chapters of Phi Beta
Kappa, presented the charter to Dr. W. J.
Martin, President of the college. At this
time alumni, honorary and student, members
were elected and initiated into the fraternity.

The public exercises of the occasion were
held in Shearer Hall at 8 p. m. The main
event of the evening was the delivery of the
Phi Beta Kappa adress by Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, former president of the college and
now president of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The subject of his speech was:
Our Christian Civilization in Peril — The
Educator to the Rescue. In adition to this,
Dr. J. M. McConnell, president of. the
Gamma Chapter, made a short speech on,
The Historic Settingvof Phi Beta Kappa.
Doctor‘Chase formally-presented the charter
to the college, and Prof. W. W. Wood, read
the list of the members who had been
initiated during the afternoon. Doctor
Martin, the presiding office, also made a few
introductory remarks concerning the sig-
nificance of Phi Beta Kappa.

A large number of noted educators, rep-
resenting the University of North Carolina,
Washington and Lee University, Trinity
College, University of Virginia, Converse
College, University of South Carolina, and

(Continued on page seven)

Forty Queens

Forty of the fairest from Queens
College will be on the hill Monday
night to present the Operetta Martha
to the Davidson student body. These
two score girls, which make up the
dramatic club of Queens College,
broadcasted several songs over the
radio from Andrew’s Music Store sev-
eral nights ago, and the entrance to
the store was jammed for over an
hour by messenger boys with tele-
grams requesting encores. The Char-
lotte police were called to disperse the
mob which was forming and escort
the chorus to the college.

The program includes several swinet
solos and skinflute duets, but the
most attractiye act is the esthetic
dancing. There will be several num-
bers of this type, all open to encores.

The Queens Dramatic Club is giv-
ing this performance under the
sponsorship of the 1923 Quips and
Cranks and under the especial direc-
tion of Bob McLeod.

TRUSTEES VOTE IMMEDIATE
RECONSTRUCTION OF WATTS

New Structure To Accommodate
One Hundred Student

IMPROVEMENTS PLANNED

Professors Reappointed for the

1923-24 Session of College

By_C. F. SMITH

The building of a new dormitory to re-
place the Watts building, recently’ destroyed
by fire, and the proposed start on the erec-
tion of the south wing of the new and hand-
some Chambers Hall within the next sixty
days, were the matters of outstanding inter-
est to the student body and the alumni that
were brought up at the mid-winter meeting
of the Board of ‘Trustees of Davidson
College which was held on February 28, in
thea dministrative offices of the college. The
meeting was called to as by the president
of the Board, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of
Richmond, Va., there being eighteen mem-
bers of the Board present. After a day’s
session, during which time many matters
and plans for the bettering of the college
were discussed, the meeting adjourned in
the late afternoon to meet again at
Commencement.

Of greatest interest to the students, per-
haps, is the replacing of Watts dormitory
by a new and complete building, with ac-
commodations for a htindred students, twice
as many as were provided for by the dormi-
tory that was destroyed on February 25th.
The Board authorized Doctor Martin and
the building and financial committees to
proceed at once with the construction of the
new building that will stand upon the site
of old Watts, and will be more in keeping
with the recent new buildings on the
campus, as it will be up to date in every detail
and absolutely fireproof. Work on the first
unit of the Chambers building, the south
wing, will begin this spring, and hopes are
entertained by the college authorities that
this part of the structure will be ready for
occupancy by the fall opening of the college.
The question of cost for both this and the
new dormitory will be left for decision in
the hands of the joint committee of build-
ing and finance.

The question of allowing Junior Speaking
to be held during Easter holidays was, by
action of the Board, referred to the faculty.
Tentative plans for this occasion point it
out to be one of the biggest and best ever
held at Davidson.

A number of items were presented to the
Board by Doctor Martin and were recom-
mended to be passed. Among these was the
publication of Miss Cornelia Shaw’s History
of Davidson College, which is at the pres-
ent in manuscript form and, according to
several competent judges, is an excellent
history of the college as well as a valuable
literary work. The Alumni Catalogue, now
practically ready for the printer, was also
ordered published. Alterations in the water
plant especially looking to a more steady and
dependable water supply for the college
were approved. Unification of the voltage
of the electric plant, by changing the sec-
tions now on 220 voltage to 110, was voted.
An annual fund was ordered set aside to
assist, from year to year, as many as three
professors who may wish to pursue ad-
vanced studies at some of the higher uni-
versities in a six wecks’ summer course.
The Treasurer was ordered to pay one-half

(Continued on page seven)

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH
IS PH BETA KAPPA ORATOR

~|Former Davidson Executive Pre- | -

sents Views on Current

World Problems

EDUCATOR TO RESCUE

Speaker Recalls Memories of
Many Happy Days Spent on
Davidson Campus

Dr. Henry Louis. Smith, President of
Washington and Lee University and former
president of Davidson, delivered the Phi
Beta Kappa address before a large audience
in Shearer Hall on the evening of Thursday,
March Ist. His subject was: Our Christian
Civilization in Peril—The Educator to the
Rescue. The speech, perhaps the most im-
pressive ever heard from a Davidson plat-
form, was a keen analysis of the dangers of
our civilization today and a forceful appli-
cation of the necessary remedy,

After a few introductory remarks con-
cerning the many happy memories which
were connected with his visit to his old
Alma Mater, Doctor Smith stated his subject
and proceeded to show how such a condi-
tion came about and how we could set to
work to remedy it.

“Civilization,” said Dr. Smith, “is the
organized dominance of our orderly spiritual
nature over our animal nature.” He com-
pared its progress to that of a ship sailing
against a severe hea’ wid. Never can it
make its way directly toward the port, but
it must shift and tack one way and then the
other. Tirst it bends its way so far from
the dead line that it seems as if it will never
reach port but is destined for the rocks. It
is then that we hear the creak of the rudder
chains and we know that the pilot has
turned the wheel in the other direction. Then
once more it crosses the dead line and goes
far to the other side. Time and again this
zig-zag process is repeated, but always, if
the pilot is watchful, it is nearer the ulti-
mate port. So it is with civilization, for we
always know that there is a sure and steady
pilot at the helm.

One of the greatest swings of progress
that the ship of human civilization has ever
made had its inception in the democratiza-
tion of religion which started some 500 years
ago, said Doctor Smith. This resulted, in
the seizing of the religious opportunities and
privileges hitherto held by few people. This
movement for democracy in religion was
followed by a similar movement in political
affairs which made itself manifest in the
diffusion among the people of the power
which the despot king or ruler had enjoyed
for centuries. These two movements have
been followed, in the last 200 years, by
similar movements along industrial and edu-
cational lines. The latest of these especially
has resulted in a wonder-working educational
revival.

This resistless, world-wide process of dif-
fusion steadily advanced human welfare so
long as the spread of power and liberty was
properly balanced by a similar spread of
enlightenment and morality, ’till democracy
became almost a religion. But a time came
when the explosive development of industry
and education was not accompanied by a
similar development of man’s moral and
religious nature.

This serious situation was accentuated by
the outbreak of the World War, which un-
loosed ali the passions of cruelty and gave
power to millions not yet ready for it. And
so the time has come when power has out-
run true enlightenment, and so our whole
civil structure is threatened by Bolshevism.
That means the giving of enormous power
to those who do not know how to use it.
This awful tendency is present, not only in

(Continued on Page 8)

ELON CONTEST MARKS TERMINATION OF CAGE
SEASON FOR COAGH GREY'S WILDCAT QUINTET

DIAMOND ARTISTS RAPIDLY
ROUNDING INTO CONDITION

Seventy Candidates Yet Remain
After First Cut by Coach

PROSPECTS PROMISING

Twenty-one Games are Sched-
uled by Manager Elliott

By J. M. SELSER

Ideal weather for the past several days
has permitted Davidson's Wildcats of the
diamond to put in full time toward getting
into shape for the twenty-one-game schedule
that Manager llliott has arranged for the
1923 season,

Coaches Buck Currie and Dutch Henge-
veld are working hard with what is left of
seventy candidates after the first cut last
Saturday. On account of the abundance of
material and keen competition for all berths
on the Red and Black nine, it is expected
that by the opening of the season here with
Oak Ridge Institute on March 30th, a nine
of no mean ability will be ready to answer
the umpire’s call to play ball.

Captain Pat Crawford, having just finished
a successful basket-ball season, is now de-
voting his attention to receiving and sending

t{at the initial bag and getting back to his

hatting form of previous seasons, Johnnie
Smith and Kugler are keeping Pat on his
mettle and are both ready to step in if
anything goes wrong with Pat. Mickey
McCoy is back at the keystone sack, with
Covington still making him work for his
position, New men are slated to take care
of the hot corner, and Sappenfield and Bach-
man are the worthy candidates. Simpson is
going good at short stop.

In the line of pitchers, Coach Currie has
about as many candidates as are allowed.
Three veterans of three years, Sorrills,
Hunter and Boushee, are back with the hopes
of again gracing the mound for Davidson.
Quite a number of new men with good prep
records, including Potts, Johnson, Alford,
Barnhart, Wells and Barron are out for the
pitching staff. In the receiving line Coach
Currie has Brice, utility back-stop of 1921,
Jim Hendrix, football star, Carson and
McDonald.

The outfield this year will be looked after
by Richards, Hastie and Marrow, of last
year’s team, and several new men. Boushee
and Alford, hurlers, might take care of
center field on their off days and show up
well in the hitting line. Vance, right-fielder
and heavy hitter, is showing up well in
practice.

Though Davidson hasn’t a number of
letter men back, there is an abundance of
material available, and Coach Currie is ex-
pecting to make trouble for all opposing
teams.

D.

Mr. H. B. Elliott to Leave

Samuel R, Brady has accepted a position
as assistant cashier in the Bank of David-
son, succeeding H. B. Elliott, who resigned
some days ago to accept a position with the
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Staunton,
Va. It is of interest to note that one of
the officers in this Staunton bank is Mr.
Caldwell, who is prominently connected with
the Laymen’s Missionary Movement, and who
was in Charlotte at the recent convention.

D—

Now is the time to subscribe.

|Wearers of Red anal Black Out-
score Opponents in Season’s

Grand Total
HAVE NINE CREDITED WINS

Pat Crawford and Captain Mauze
Go On Retired List in
Blaze of Glory
By J. L. GREEN

A retrospective glance at the 1923 basket-
hall season, just ended for the Wildcats,
shows a record of 9 victories out of 17 games
played, leaving 8 defeats by all opponents,
A more careful study of the dope, how-
ever, reveals the fact that Davidson scored
a total of 504 points against 463 by her
opponents. In view of this evidence and the
close scores by which several games were
lost, it seems the breaks were against the
Red and Black, z

On their own court, with backs to the wall
and claws bared, the Wildcats fought so
fiercely that only two teams carried away
victories from Davidson’s gym. ‘The bril-
liant little five from Guilford College was
the only team which won two games from
the Red and Black quintette during the
season, one at Guilford and one at Dxvidson.
bw wae ihe ohly other invader fortunate
an¥ih to get away with a game on’D, C.’s
court. In this instance the Wildcats were
handicapped by the crippled condition of
their captain and they failed to get into the
usual stride without his leadership.

Charlotte “Y,” Concord “Y;” N. C. State,
Wofford, Wake Forest—all of these came
and saw and* were conquered on the local
flocr. Backed by a loyal student body and
stimulated to superhuman effort by David-
son tradition, just as they checked V. P. L
on the gridiron and drew a tie against over-
whelming odds, so on the basket-ball court
the Wildcats received all comers, treated
them to a real exhibition of the cage sport,
and sent them away scalpless. And if
Captain Warhoss had not been on the bench
in the Guilford, and a large part of the Elno
game, there might have been a different
story to relate in those two cases.

Away from home, however, fortune failed
to smile on the Poison Squad, and out of

(Continued on Page 6)

What’s Doing

Thursday—7 :00 p. m.—Au. Society.
7:00 p. m.—Phi Society.
Friday—6:13 p. m.—Volunteers leave
for Raleigh.
8:05 p. m—Wrestling Team in-
vades Virginia.
10:00 p. m.—Reporters Club Meet-
ing.
Saturday—2:15 p. m. —
tions.
7:15 p. m. —- Harold Lloyd in
“Grandma’s Boy.” Also
Pathe Review. Free Show. |
Senior Class Smoker.
Sunday—10:00 a. m.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 a. m.—Ministerial Band.
1:15 p. m.—Christian Endeavor
‘Class.
3:30 p. m.—Sunday School.
6:15 p. m—“Y” Service.
Monday—4:05 p. m.—Volunteers re-
turn from State conference.
Tuesday—6:45 p.
Society.
7:15 p. m—Pandeinic Society.
Wednesday—9:0 p. m.—Bible Classes.

Re-examina-

m.—Metrophilian

PHI BETA KAPPA, WE WELCOME YOU!

We aie ah

FABER cee a
