\

6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923
4. Varsity athlete standing—the|and life-work. In the choosing of our] Self-sacrifice is higher than self-pres-
highest rating. life-work, the end is closely associ-|ervation.”
RELIGIOUS NEWS | For a rating of Excellent: ated with the aim. As the aim is, so VESPER SERVICE
{100 yard dash......... 11% seconds| will the end be. In choosing our life-| ‘The service Sunday evening came
mi fany| Broad jump ............... 18 feet | work let us consider three things. as a climax tothe entire conference.
NEW CHURCH ANNEX Siber,, We, IntAts COG Oe eee MAURIS! (is... ccc sce 5 feet; “If the end is to be bright and hap-| The speaker used as his text, “By faith
preachers today try to imitate Billy Sun- gn J P : i b e speake
IS FORMERLY OPENED day, but they are unable to imitate him be- Wiatlte ieee tivriciisss 5 feet, 10 inches| py, the aim must be bright. Choose Moses, when he was come to years,

The new annex to the Presbyterian
church was opened Sunday morning, and
the seats parceled out to members of the
Fresh and Soph classes. The seats are some
four or five inches higher than those in the
main body of the church, giving the ap-
pearance of a kind of a balcony. ;

The annex is furnishea with opera chairs
each row a step higher than the one in
front of it. The annex is separated from
the rest of the church by a low railing and
is approached by two short flights of stairs
fiom the front.

The front row is divided between the
“L's” of the Fresh Class and the “A’s” of
the Soph class, Arbuthnot and Austin shar-
ing two seats.

For some years the church has_ been
crowded and at the beginning of the pres-
ent session no seats were available for the
Senior class. On account of, the crowding
they were permitted to attend either the
evening or the morning service, as they de-
sired. Since the annex has opened there is
ample room for both students and towns-
people.

The annex is an extension thirty or forty
feet long built on the east end of the origi-
nal church, It is the second addition that
has been made to the church in recent years
the other one being on the north side, The
basement of the new addition is used for
Sunday School rooms.

T).

DR. CLARK SPEAKS
TO VOLUNTEER BAND

A union meeting of the Ministerial and
Volunteers Bands was held Sunday morn-
ing. The president of the Ministerial Band
presided. Doctor Clark addressed them at
this time. He chose for his subject The
Necessity of Presenting one’s Personality.

“It is easier to preach,” said the speaker,
“than it is to practice what you preach. It
is very depressing today where a pastor
preaches the truth and does not practice it
himself. The pastor has to contribute. per-
sonality, and contribute it fully and wholly.
When God calls a man, he wants his per-
sonality, It is a characteristic of the hu-
man being to take on from the outside, that
is, to adapt himself to the environment. It
is a natural thing, and in some way or an-

cause they cannot imitate his personality.”

The speaker impressed the members of |

the Bands by giving an experience of a
college professor, who was willing to let
anything go on in order to make friends
with the students. Later, he gave up teach-
ing, and desiring a pastorate, was called to
a certain town. The congregation of the
church had just about decided to call him,
but a shabbily dressed man came up before
the congregation at the meeting and told of
his experience with this man whom they
were about to call, and ‘said that the can-
didate was no more of a Christian than

|

he himself was. Of course, they did not
call him.

“Personality is what counts, and if one |
intends to be a successful minister, he must |
have a high personality. This is all that,
God asks for. The rest He does Himself, |
and through a man with a high personality
He can work wonders.”

DOCTOR CLARK SPEAKS
BEFORE ENDEAVORERS,

i}
|

On Sunday, March 11, several députa- |
tions were sent out by the Christian En-|
deavor training class, and last Sunday re-
ports were heard from those who went on
the deputations. Edmund O'Connell told
of his trip to Mooresville and his work
with the Juniors there. TT. C. Barr and}
W. A. Gamble reported on their trip to Gas- |
tonia. ‘

Following these reports Dr. Clark was
asked to make a few remarks on young
peoples’ work. He tated that a person]
has an opportunity for work with young,

standard of physical efficiency.

‘The scoring table for these events | the life which will be most profitable,
requires that no special track uni-|not only for the present, but for eter-
form or equipment such as spiked/nity, and choose the work that will
shoes may be used and that com-|give ‘you the greatest power to achieve
petitors must be clothed in regular, the greatest results.
field service uniforms. | FRIDAY EVENING

The day is coming when every | “Follow me and I will make you fish-
high school will have a minimum /|€rs of men,” was the text used when
physical requirement as a part of | Doctor Clark spoke on the Ministry
its curriculum and every college will sate Calling. : Seats
have a minimum physical entrance| “The ministry is no easy job ; it takes
requirement which will not be de-! he best that a man has. It is the great-
viated from except in special cases, | @St field of service, and brings the
In the near future the physical train- | greatest satisfaction to the worker.”
ing requirement of all colleges will} The speaker spoke of the great need
not only ascertain the number of | fT ministers of the gospel, bringing
hours of physical sulture exercise to Ut the fact that all the men being turn-
qualify for graduation, as it now is, ed out today by the Seminaries were
but the achievement of a minimum only sufficient to take the place of the
retiring pastors.

“Money is in no sense an aim of the
preacher, but his aim is the salvation
of humanity. It is he who helps the
| outcasts and those crushed by sin, and
‘leads them back to the Savior.

“The work is an inspiration to the

Life Service Conferences
Continued from Page 1
“Whom shall I send? ‘The call is
great. Strong, brave men are needed
to uphold the Word of God before preacher. People seek him, and God

marl, God wants a willing mars if uses him to make the world happy and
the man is willing, God will give him pect.” ‘

the power. The question for us to set-| SATURDAY MORNING

tle is, ‘Am I willing to do God’s will’ «The day will come in the life of

for my life? jall,”’ spoke Dr. Clark, “When we shall
“When the people of Christ’s church | estimate things in a new valve. There

put their lives into His hands then) vere some reasons why the early Chris-

people, no matter what his vocation may the hymn, ‘Like a Mighty Army Moves tians should not be ashamed, or afraid
be. The demand is being made more and the Church of God,’ will be true. \to follow Christ.

; 7 | But now there are
more for men who are trained in young THURSDAY CHAPEL, SERVICE ‘none. Christ has given us a reproach-
peoples’ work. Young people of the ado-| y P

r. tk k f i j - | 4
lescent age are the most willing to work) a ie me igi a cies Jo" less system of ethics and a character
and when they are past that age they are | M215 ‘Attempted Flight trom God, and’ such as has not been seen before. We
drawn away from Christian work by many : 2PPlied it to the Christian who tries to, are to be glad to have the name of

other things. Probably the reason for that| evade his God-given duties.

'Christian, rather than be ashamed.

is because there are so many blunderers and
ignorant persons of good intention who are}
trying to do young peoples’ work. As. it |
were, a shutter drops and the average |
young person forgets Christ. The best per-|

sons to .work with young people are the |

adolescents for they have just passed that
age.

R. OO. T. C. NEWS

In November, 1922, Hon. John
W. Weeks, the Secretary of War,
called a conference to meet in Wash-
ington, D. C., to consider how fede-
ral and non-federal agencies can op-
erate to realize more fully the pro-
visions of the National Defense Cct,
as amended June 4,-1920. ‘I'he con-
ference had. for its specific conside-
ration three large phases of this
tremendous national problem. The
phases with which this article is
concerned is Citizenship Training.
The conferences were divided into
three groups, or committees, and as-
signed one of the subjects for con-
sideration, study and recommenda-
tions,

Of the many significant recom-
mendations made by thecommittec
on citizenship training, that one
which makes reference to physical
training should ‘receive the early
recognition and support of every
high school and college of the land.

The committee agreed that a com-
prehensive, thoroughgoing program
of universal physical education is of
pressing and vital importance to-the
nation, and the state legislation for
the acquisition and conservatien of
national vigor by means of thorough
well-balanced programs of physical

‘ education is a fundametal necessity.
| The committee further agréed
that one of the best means: of at-
_ taining these objectives consists in
forn lating cound and generally
Pplicable specifications and stan-

dards of physical fitness. Such
specifications and standards furnish
the most practical means of stimul-|
ating youths to participate inactivi-
tiesthat make for physical efficiency.
They also provide objective tests
for measuring achievement. It is
both practicable and desirable to
set up specifications and standards
of physical achievements for boys
and girls on the basis of age, height
and weight.

It was recommended that the Na-
tional Amateur Federation of
America be asked to undertake to
define these specifications and stan-
dards, and to promote their use,

The following specifications and

standard ve been defined by this
organiz 3

1. Junigr high school-boys of 15
to 16 years:

For rating of excellent in physi-
cal efficiency:

100 yard dash........ 131% seconds
Broad jump ..... seeeeeses AB feet
High jump ......... 4 feet, 2 inches
Vault oven tcmes Sx OUOHE 5 feet

»

2. Senior high school youths of
17 and 18 years,

‘For rating of Excellent:
100 yard dash...........13 seconds

Broad jump ....... woeeeee At feet
High jump ........ 4 feet 4 inches
Vault ...... +++. feet, 2 inches

3. Colleges—men 19 to 20 years.

For rating of Excellent:
100 yard dash........12%§ seconds
Broad jump ........ . 15 feet
High jump .......:.4feet, 6 inches

eeeeee

Vault ..............5 feet 4 inches

| service of’ God and humanity.”

“The world is looking to Christians} SUNDAY MORNING

in the great time of need. It puts faith | In Doctor. Richard’s pulpit, Doctor

in Christianity when all else has failed. Clark took as-his text,. “Who then is

The world will follow a*man’ who is] Viiting to, consecrate himself this-day
giving only his | into the Lord?”

not satisfied with

money, but also invests his life in the! WW ieawa tans Somunite Hiexentine
| life to a definite choice, he is making

a choice. That which makes life beau-

tiful is not the necessities of life, but

\the over and above spirit.

“A man has not really lived until he

s found some object or some individ-

ual:for which he will lay down his life.

THURSDAY EVENING
The story of Joseph and Mary los-
ing Jesus in Jerusalem was the text
for the evening service. |
“As Jesus was separated from His} 14
parents whenthey took him to Jerusa-
ler, so it is possible for us to lose com-

refused to be called the son of Phara-
oh’s daughter, choosing rather to suf-
fer affliction with the people of God
than to enjoy the pleasure of sin for
awhile.”

Doctor Clark told of Moses’ world-
ly power which he turned aside, of his
decision when the time for decision ar-
rived. ‘God called Moses, but Moses
was the one who made the decision.
Moses made objections, but God show-
ed him that the seat of his inability was
within himself.

“You, even as Moses, stand as an
object of choice. No one else can de-
cide for you. When you, as Moses, ac-
cept God’s rod of power He will give
you power over the worldly rulers.”

At the conclusion of his touching
appeal, Doctor Clark asked for those
who, during the meeting, had deter-
mined to give their lives in His ser-
vice, and eight men, prominent in the
life of the College, arose to join the
ranks of those who had already ded-
cated their lives to His services.

The attendance at all of the meetings
was good, the Juniors receiving first
honors by having 330 present on Ju-
nior night, while the Sophomores were
a close second with 323.

During his trip to the Hill, Doctor
Clark’s time was filled, when not in
the pulpit, in personal
with those seeking his aid in the great
problem of life-work. On Sunday
he addressed a joint meeting of the
Ministerial and Volunteer bands, also
the Christian Endeavor Training Class,
and spoke at the Presbyterian Church
morning and night.

During the opening services, Mr.
Julian S. Carr of Mooresville was
present to lead the singing, and Okey
Allison took up the work Sunday.

Purdy, Northrup, White and Finn
furnished the instrumental music for
the services. The earnest work and
prayers of Buck Currie were a potent
factor in the success of the meeting.

All Davidson has come to know and
love Dr. Clark, and he will always re-

conferences

ceive a warm welcome on the Hill.

munication with Him. We will never
be lost after we oncebecome children
of God, but we may ofttimes lose com-
munion with Him.

“Many people lose communion with
God, and especially do boys when
thrown on their own resources. There
are certainely causes for man to lost
Communion with Him,

“We become busy about worldly
matters which crowd out our Chris-
tian activities. Neglect of prayer and |
Bible reading undermine our relation- |
ship with Him.

“A half dose of religion is just!
enough to make a man miserable. To-|
tal happiness is gained by swallowing |
the whole dose—becoming an out and |
out Christian.”

““As Joseph and Mary took it for;
granted that Jesus was with them, so}
people think that after they have join-|
ed the church they are through. Jesus)
died not that we might be saved from}
Hell; He died that we might be saved |
for service.” |

FRIDAY CHAPEL SERVICE

he Supreme Principles in Choos-
ing One’s Life Work, was the subject
on which Doctor Clark spoke Friday
morning. ;

“Before the age of twenty-five,” : ;
said the speaker, “the majority of
1ien have settled four questions of ut-
most importance in their lives: The

leston, S.C.

Atlanta, Ga.

Jacksonville, Fla.

Church, New Orleans, La.

Jackson, Miss.
Tuesday,

Nashville, Tenn.
WwW

questions of habits, marriage, religion,

SE ett eR IE REEDS FLEETS La eS Fale rR eS Ee

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
“*Regulative Ideas in Preaching”
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor

Fit Presbyterian Church,

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive, Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presby-
terian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p. m., begin-
ing Wednesday, April !1, and continuing through Wednes-
dey, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are
invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be
highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible
through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Char-

SMYTH LECTURES
- Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,
*“*Sermonic Sources”
Thursday, April 12th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church,

‘Passion in Preaching”

Street Presbyterian
“The Man and His Message”

17th

La
SRPSSESERSSSRS RECS SES SSeS ee ER SSeS eee eee eee eee

Sermonizing

