THE DAVIDSONIAN, GCTGBER 16, 1324

Bramble
Bushes

Notice!
A reward of a red-Aannel suit of under
Wear and a three-quart

ice-cream freezer,
model 1869, will be awarded to the person
giving information that will bring about the
capture, dead
Whose name

or unconscious, a desperads
2, 1;
Jones, alias Parson Jones, alias Hobo Jones.
This man escaped from Shearer Hall last
Monday morning at 8:55 a.m. When last
seen he was wearing a dark suit with acces-
sories te match. Beware of this man. He
is armed with a water-pistol and a penknife.
li you try to capture him be sure y
get the jump on him, and that you have
No
sibility is taken by the ones offering this re-
ward as this man is noted for being able to
get the jump on any man and tapping him on
the wrist-watch, seriously injuring said ar-
ticle.

is Jones, alias Casey

can

sign-

ed your. fire-insurance policy. respon-

As soon as the arrest is affected the
reward will sold te th
highest bidder on the day following. In case
this man is seen, wire headquarters at
This man is charged with hossing, bulling.
and heaving Trish confetti. ATL communica
tions must he sent to Cop RL. Johnston,
care of the Assinated Vest.

This is a fair description of the brute:
Height, 6 feet 9 inches; breadth, 2. feet 7
inches; width, 18 inches; left leg wooden;
both eyes g

above-named he

ONCE

iss; one arm cork; wears a wig:
solid brick from the ears up; chews Spark
Plug Twist: smokes Home Run cigarettes :
has a false set of teeth.
Headlight overalls.
and a penknife.

This man
Carries a water-pistol
The persons offering thi-
reward will not be responsible for any injury

Wears

received by anyone trying to affect a capture
unless he is wearing a water-proof sticker,
purchased from Spee MeConnell.

Picture Taking
Amoug the aetivities: that have filled: thi
preceding weeks of the new school year has
been the ever-favorite sport of “having the
Much
time, worry and care has been taken to make
this year’s pictures “as good looking as pos
sible.”

The Seniors, Juniors and fraternity: men
have bravely faced the ordeal thus far and
from ail reports there are only a few that
Tailed to up
group picture taken so far has been the foot-
ball team. However, after repairing dam
ages to his camera, the photographer prom-
ised to return soon for the seciety pictures
well the remaining class and other
group pictures

A problem that has been facing the Se
niors and Juniors for the past weeks has been
deciding which of the proofs look the home-
liest. After much painstaking delihe
and consideration the verdict has usually
heen that looks about bad as the
other and the great decision has generally

beauty struck” for the college annual,

come to standard, The onts

ats

as

one as
However,
laying jokes aside, from all reports, the pic-
tures promise to afford plenty in the way of
amusement to be looked forward to in this
year’s publication of the annual.

been decided by the toss of a coin.

Poems That Live
“Little domes of ivory,

Freckling’ in the sun
One on R. McConnell,

One on Williamson.”

(The above gem of thought, now memor
ized_ by every student of literature as soon as
he has attained a degree of intelligent rea
soning power that will enable him to realize
the sumblime beauty of the meter and theme,
comprises the cighty-ninth stanza of “The
Bald Headed Men's Lament.” by Dr. Anony-
mous, The Dr. Anonymous’ best
known werk, appeared first in pamphlet form
during the latter part of the year 1924, and
can now be found in its entirety in “Cen-
sored Readings in Davidson Literature.”

The author the
in explanation ;

poem,

gives us following notes

“Upon arising’ one morning and fecling
that a strange phenomenon must be mani-
testing itself, [ looked through the recently
washed pane of the dormitory window and
beheld the sun #ising above the distant water
tank,

“A short piece up the read were two odd
looking obijcets glittering resplendent in the
soft rays of the morning sun. How inspir-
ing the sight was to my poetic soul!

“IT rushed down ;to study the objects of
my admiration at closer range. An inspec-
tion of the curious refledtors proved that
they were the recently polished hat rests of
the lads mentioned in the poem.

“The soaring price of Stacomb prohibited
its use by them any longer and they found
it necessary to resort to Johnson’s Prepared
Wax. Purchasers of this wax are warned
in the instructions upon the can that satis-
factory ,zesults can be obtained only when

THREE HONORARY FRATS 2 Dr. H. B. Arbuckle Makes
Buda te Fine Talk to Volunteers
Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics i a ee } F

fraternity: Gamma. Sigma Epsilon, $ Cites Story of Gideon and His Band

honorary chemical fraternity, and as Examples of Faith in God
Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary speaking i : = ee:

fraternity, have elected new members The profram of the Volunteer Band wa:

to their various groups lately. act of unusual interest last) Sunday morning.

of the new men have shown a marked Dr. HB. Arbuckle was the speaker, His

proficiency in their various lines of en Message was to have faith in God and: te

deavor, and these elections are recog lean upon Him in times of doubt, as an ex

Hitions of their attainments. The ample ef which, he told the story of Gideon.

following are the names of the fra God called Gideon, who because he was in

ternities and the new men: doubt, put God to a test to find out if it

Si SITING were really God who called him, His test

Cc. S. Fure jive Was that of putting out a skein with wool,

M. M. Blunter and if it were full of dew in the mérning,

O.1.. Brenner while everything: near it was dry, then the

Ry \WaoGraves call was from God. But after it had hap

J.D. Young pened, he reasoned that nothing would take

F.C. Kugler dew like wool “Therefore he reversed the

Gaines Renin test. It was hard for Gideon to believe that

NweGi mnie sft God called him, Tor Ne wats the humblest man

Wh Nvnltdin of the humblest family in Tsracl but his

in i). (clive faith Wats strong, and he blew the trumpet.

WL Siadkih to which 32 thousand men responded. ust

; as IMs spirits were high at the response, God

Laie A Epsilon told him: that he had too many mento let

W. M. Gyicey ‘those go home who feared the Midianites.

Wi os SHINES He was left with only 10 thousand men, The

* Pete test of rinking at the stream eliminated all

Nene | arker of his men except three hundred. but his faith

B. U. Ratchford continued to the end. This faith led him te

eee drive the Midianites from their camp, and

to pursue them until his three hundred men
were faint,

Davidson to Meet Emory

On Home Floor This Year

Good Debates Are Being Planned by
Forensic Council—Prelims on
October 29th

The query for the first intercollegiate ch
hate the year Resolved, That the
Reid-Sterling Mdueational Bill Should he
enacted Inte Law by the Present Congress.

Davidson the University
team in their home territory at) Atlanta this
year,

nowhere does

faith as in the

that
for

The appleation was
there exist such a need
foreign fields, but whoever has the faith ot
Gideon, the faith to trust}in God at all times,
can accomplish limittess results in His name,

Harry Price led the meeting.
were offered by Regen and Miller.

| R.O. T. C. News

Prayers

ol Ist

mects lemory

This college has the affirmative side ihe 1k, (0),
the last Wednesday
though it was not perfect by
hie 1, WE Sy, HE Ae,
very well pleased with the showing made
Officers on duty at Davidson think that the

Cy held the first: parade oi
afternoon, Al
means,

of the question and can depend on the team
to fight hard to duplicate last year’s vietors
of a four to one decision,

The preliminaries for this debate will be
held Wednesday, October, 29th, and the tinal
fray will be staged December Sth.

year
any
and officers here were

Freshmen have developed remarkably ia
their one month's training. it is phinmed to
have a parade every Wednesday
On the campus, which members ot the stu

dent body and public in’ general are cor

Plans for a triahgular debate in the sprin

are being worked on by the Forensic Coun afternoon
cil, The council is also planning some Fresh
man debates. With three men of last year’s
team back, and some good material from
last year’s Freshman team, prospects for an-
other successful year are bright.

A summary of the debates for the year
1923-24 shows that Davidson defeated \Wash-
ington & Lee, and Emory, but lost to Trinity
In the Freshman triangular debate of last
year Davidson defeated Carolina by a: de-
cision of three to nothing, and lost to Wake
Forest by a vote of one to two.

dially invited to attend.

Last week the R. OO. T. C. organized at
special training platoon, “Poo this
have been assigned men who have not beer
able to develop sufficiently in their drill, or
who particularly need physical development.
The personnel of this platoon will be chang
ed from time to time and within aq month it
is planned to have only men in the platoon
For the firsi

differ
regular

platoon

that need physical development.
their of training will
slightly that the

After learning to drill correctly
more attention will be given to the physical
development of the men in the platoon, The
R. O. T. C. department is taking an espe
cial interest in this platoon and hopes t>
obtain results that will justify the organ
A’ special

With such a successful year immediately
behind us and with such likely material now
in college, this year’

month course

only from of

5 record) bids

fair to equal if not surpass that of last year.

C. E. Training Class Is
Active With Deputations

forensic platoc mm,

zation of this platoon cach year.

Several Members of Class Have = staff of instructors have been selected to

Been to Mooresville and Other supervise the training of this platoon, The

Places upper-classmen in charge are: First Lieu

es SAS aie ee : tenant, L. B. Huie; Sergeant, G. W. Smith;

The purpose of tore) (C:, IP, Training. is el Na dlceinit Corporals, Brands, «Sears, Sins,

TM Mele Gs Alaa understanding of the Womach, Lingle, Keerns, Lieutenant Huie
principles and practices of Christian En-

had the best driiled platoon in dast year’s R.
O. T. C. and he
platoon again this year with the men of th:

deavor, In view of this faet, it is the aim of
the class to have as many open discussions
(oy (Co, TP,

Sunday consisted of

hopes to have the besi

work as possible. The meeting last
series of
After the open-
ing prayer and song service, the

special training platoon,

For the first time in several years David
son College has the prospects of a good
band. Many Freshmen came to the aid of
Captain Ernest when he called tor yolun-
Among the number that came, muci:

a questions
and answers on that work.
president,
Ernest Milton, opened the meeting proper
with a short talk as to what the program
would be. He then proceeded to ask ques-
tions which were answered by the members,
all present taking part.

teers.
good material has been found, Captain fri.
est and Lieutenant Crayton
faithfully to develop the new material. Cap
tain Weems announces that he hopes to bor

are we ig

Problems that would
jarise on a deputation were given thorough
attention,

{
|

row Fort Bragg’s band leader for about a
month to help us in the training of our band,
his time to the band

The class this year intends to have a large
jnumber of deputations.
have been sent out.

Already, a number ; ;
eine He will devote all of

and its work. He comes io us being recon:
mended as one of the best band leaders in
the service. With his aid and the co-opera
tion df the officers in charge we hope to
have the best band that Davidson has ever

They are bringing back
favorable reports of work done.
made
Mooresville,

Covington
a report concerning a deputation to
which he, O'Connor ant
Fields went two Sundays ago. The class

has been working at Mooresville for the last

on

‘two or three years with good results. The sa os

| program of the C. FE. class last Sunday was ee ee : et
|for the new men especially as they will rep- The Praise-meeting of the Woman's
jresent the class at different times and places Auxiliary convened in the basement of

the church on Tuesday evening. Miss
Bessie Blakeney, a missionary to Japan,
gave a splendid lecture. A free-will of-
“fering of more than $150 was subscribed.

,and therefore must become acquainted with
H ; ; : 5
jthe problems which will arise on deputations.

ithe product “is applied to a more or les
smooth and solid surface. Hence the new
style of head undress, the - Bald Headed
Bob.” )

}

Miss Lois Barnette was. at home for
the week-end.

trumpet, saxaphone, clarinet, banjo, ana SAT U RDAY, THE 187 H ; |

piano, in. several popular pieces such ts) 3:30- Davidson a Lenoir-Rhyne.
“Somebody's Wrong,” “Down Home in 7 :30—Movies, Gym.

Pasadena,” and “Red Hot Mamma.” SUNDAY, THE 19TH:

| Although the plans for a full house failed 10 :00—Bible Class.

/to materialize, still there were about 300 1:15—C. FE. Training School.
ltickets sold, and the benefit was a decided 2:00—Ministerial Band.

isuccess. The Davidsonian Realized about 6:00—"Y" Service.

{$125 from it, and thus reduced its debt from TUESDAY, THE 21ST: —
1$325 to $200. Those who heard the concert *~ 7 :30—FanGdeinic “Literary Society. ‘
| will no doubt look forward to the second 7 :30—Metrophilian Literary Society.
visit. which the Biddle Quintet will make to 8 :30—Basketball, Junior vs. Senior.

The SHOPS for MEN

>

o

New
Slip-Over

Sweaters

$3.00

\
|
'

Listen fellows! Slip into this slip-over Sweater and
slip out of doors, and let the rest of the world go by!
Exactly like the illustration in solid colors of powder
blue, tan or gray, with contrasting colors. It

light cnough to be worn under or heavy

a coat
cnough to be worn as a sweater, Moderately priced,

She Greater BonMarché

The Shops For Men---Trade Street Entrance

Sunday School Work by

Students Gains Impetus

1s

DAVIDSON
FIVE YEARS AGO

Organization Perfected at Oak The student body has decided to ereet a
Grove—Many Students Attend

These Places

bronze tablet in honor of those who died in
Now for the donor of an attractive
set of gates at the entranee of the campus on
Which this tablet may be placed.

France,

The Sunday Sehool work, piloted hy

Spooty Motfett, seems te be growing rapid

The Greater Davidson Club has done its

Wy. Several new points around Dirvidson are , ; , ;
f i i work and done it well. At the time of this
being worked. bast Sunday one new Sun iti 4 of tl @ is thal
‘ ; — writing Ald oof the young men of this lane

day School was started at Oak Grove, Not :

had signed up for courses at this historic in-
All the commodious’ cars which
were run by the Southern Railway on Tues
day, Wednesday and Thursday of last week
were taxed to the utmost to care for the in
pouring crowds of young men who have
chosen this college to start them off in’ lik

only the students who go out ta teach every

Sunday are interested, but alsa in cach Sun SU
day School those attending shaw interest and
enthusiasm,

The students who went to Shearer Chapel
last Sunday were I Tbh, (GpIb, (Gr, Whe
Millan, PY Pe. Jones, RS. Lowranee, 1. Me

.
Wehe ’ ’ r , Ny : . 5 .

Cutchen, C. Patterson, G. Re Sims, and AL dor a number of years Davidson has been
2, a. kd . ’ ’ ow rr . -

C. Ray, “There were OO members present. without a hand. ‘There may have been a

the
he one of the features of the meeting. Gibbs

Lowranee led singing, which proved to

time when Davidson had one, but the present
student body does not remember it.
Mueller has put in a requisition to the War
Department a hand It
likely that this request. will be granted, but
if it isn’t there are cnough musicians here
to find a good leader among them,

Colonel
and Patterson remained until evening to help |
with the C.F. meeting.

Franklin, W. Purdy,
Yeargan, and Phillips attended
School at the Mill Chapel.
of the superintendent, Mranklin had charge. |
W. Purdy led the music, and the other stu-
There were

for leader, looks
Croxton,

Sunday

Forest

In the absence

In a somewhat one-sided, but nevertheless,
a hard-fought game, the Wildeats opened
their 1919) football season by defeating the

dents helped with the teaching.
about 30 present. It is interesting to note
that. the Sunday School has recently started

Due to the small size of the Sun

scrappy Guilford team 33 to 0.

a library.
day school, much good will no doubt come
There
has been a reorganization of the Christian
rhe 5 vidson,

an inerease over previous Sundays. vi i

Is there any fundamental difference in

torn to Mr. and M ts. Wa WS
William Woodhull, Whi, We

him as the youngest Freshman of this year’s

Wood,

HHMOUAC

a

,y i son,
from the circulation of these books.

class, and as already a reader of The Da-

Endeavor Society. attendance showed |

A new Sunday School was started at Oak
Grove last Sunday. M, ©. Lyerly, ©.
McCarty and A. N. Moffett will have charge

another fellow s

from

from
light

» | stealing information
Rk. '

paper and in’ stealing a whole

dormitory hall?

of the work in this Sunday School, There
Was no orggnization Tast Sunday, ats only Davidson wins third victory of the season
13 were present. The prospects are 00d.) ty, letiirardhiis (isnt 7 ten (O
however. Organization will take place next
Sunday. |
A regular meeting was held at the Convict | CALENDAR
Camp Jast Sunday afternoon at 3:30.) ERT
Pritchett was the speaker of the afternoon, THURSDAY, THE 16TH:
Voss Jed the singing, Others taking part ft—ahedh, “a 1D) (Coed, ae
were A, Y, Bowie, Paul Freeland and J. M. Rocke iil Suc.
Garrison. Magazines were distributed after 7:30—Eumenean Literary Society.

the service, 9 :00—Philanthropic Literary Se
ciety.
FRIDAY, THE 17TH:
7:15—Basketball, Fresh vs. Juniors.
8:30—Stunt Night, Shearer Hall.

JOHNSON SMITH QUINTETTE

(Continued from page 1)

| Davidson College this year.
£
