THEDAVI

Vol. XI

Maroon and Gold Entertains Thirty-Five |

Delegates at the State Press Association

Seventeen North Carolina College Publications Represented at Elon |
Conference

WALT FILLANS IS SPEAKER

Other Distinguished Men Give Pointers on College Publications in
Addresses

Thirty-five delegates representing 17 pub-
lications from leading institutions of learning
throughout the state were in attendance at
the eighth semi-annual convention of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association,
May, 1, 2 and 3, at Elon College.

Four delegates represented Davidson
periodicals. They were Liston Elkins, presi-
dent of the association; Chalmers McIlwaine,
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian; Kenneth
McAlpin, business manager of the Davidson-
ian; Linton Deck, member of Davidson Col-
lege Magazine staff.

The association in business session Satur-
day morning passed resolutions favoring the
giving of college credit for work done on
student publication. The growing popularity
of the publications as an incentive to literary
endeavor and creation, and the importance ef
the publications in student life, as evidenced
by recognition in a number of North Caro-
lina instiutions, where college credit is al-
lowed, was advanced as argument to support
the resolution, A resolution was also passed
favoring compulsory subscription to all stu-
dent publications, through term fees, on the
part of all students. The fee, according to
the measure adopted, would be paid at matri-
culation, This plan is in operation: in’ the
majority of North Carolina colleges.

The standardization of the column width.
for all member publications, was advocated.
to facilitate the sale of foreign advertising.
This width was set at 1214 pica ems.

Dean Louise Savage, of Elon College, wel-
comed the delegates, following the invocation
by Rev. S. M. Lynam, at the opening session
Thursday evening. The convention sessions
were held in the Society Hall of the new
Alamance building.

The principal addresses were delivered by
Walt Fillans, advertising expert of Greens-
boro; Prof. H. Babcock, of the English De-
partment of Elon; Doctor Harper, president
of Elon, and Rey. S. M. Lynam. ‘Mr. Fil
lans discussed the subject Points On Adver-
tising at the Thursday night session. Pro-
fessor Babcock, following a short address by

(Continued on page 8)

Student Gouna
Is Installed At
Tuesday Meeting

The new Student Council for the ensuing
year was duly inaugurated after the chapel
exercises Monday morning. The official
oath was given them by the retiring presi-
dent, Albert Hillhouse, in the presence of an
attentive student body. The members of
the council are: Hendrix, chairman; Beall,
Patton, Oeland, Briggs, Covington, Seniors ;
Baker, Sappenfield, Shaw, Hollingsworth,
Juniors; Covington, Pinkney, Christian, ;
Sophomores. The above named are signifi-
cant of ability and diligence to duty, there-
fore a most successful year is predicted.

After taking the oath the council was
charged by Mr. Williams, Y. M. C. A. sec-
retary, in a brief but impressive talk. He
stressed the importance of the responsibility
laid upon them and gave as reason for their
exerting every effort to uphold their position,
the duty they owed to the student body, to
the alumni, to the administration, and to;
themselves.

Concluding the installation, Jim Hendrix,
the incoming president of the student body,

‘made’ Several appropriaie remarks, especially
emphasizing the need of absolute co*opera-
tion on the part of the student body, and

strict observance to the constitution.

Operatic Airs Heard In
Recital of Concert Club

Carolina Concert Club Pleases
Davidson Audience With ©
Well Selected Program

A feast, for the lovers of music, was the
concert given by the Carolina Concert Club
in Shearer Hall, Friday evening, May 5th.
Appearing this night were some of the fore-
most vocal artists of the Carolinas, men and
women whose names have appeared as lead-
ers upon many concert programs. The con-
cert lasted for two hours, with 12 scheduled
numbers, and almost as many more encore
numbers.

The company carried a total of 17 persons,
12 men, five ladies, one being director. Mrs.
Coral Hayner Baker is director and pianist
of the club, and to her must go the major
part of just credit and praise which is due
the company. The program consisted of five
nuinbers by the men members of the club,
in’ chorus, two numbers, three
female solo numbers, as well as a quartet
number and a sextette rendering the Sextette
from Lucia.

male solo

The features of the evening were “Air de
Barber Seville;’ given by Mr. Will) Neal;
two songs, “Spring’s a Lovable Lady,” and
“Molly Darling,” both given by Scott Gib
tenor of the club, and the “Sextette
from Lucia.’ sung by Mesdames Sloan and

(Continued on page 6)

son,

Theta Upsilon Omega Is
Name of National Frat

Phi Alpha Pi Formerly Received
Charter Friday Night—Seventh
National Fraternity Here

The national induction ceremonies of
Theta Upsilon Omega Fraternity, a newly
crganized national fraternity, held
10 colleges throughout the including

Davidson College, at midnight, May 2.

were in

cast,

The local chapter.of this fraternity grew
out of a local organization known as Phi
Alpha Pi, organized two years ago on the
campus. At a meeting in New York City.
December 1, at which 80 local fraternities
were represented, 10 such bodies were select-
ed as a tentative organization, later to expand
into a more cosmopolitant organization. This
outgrowth from the Interlocal Fraternity
Conference was temporarily given the name
of Phi Kappa Pi, assuming the designation
of one of the 10 locals. At a conference |
held at Bucknell University, February 22,
of this year, plans of the organization were
completed, and from it merged a well-round-

‘ed national fraternity, Theta Upsilon Omega.

The local organization will be known as the
Kappa Alpha chapter of that fraternity.

The 10 chapters are located at Worcester |
Polytechnic Institute, Stevens Polytechnic |
Institute, Temple University, Bucknell Uni-
versity, Penn State, New Hampshire, Tili- |
nois, Westminster College, George Washing- |
ton University, and Davidson College. The |
age of these chapters range from three to}
70 years, and the alumni list carries many |
important names. Among them are the two!
most outstanding, Dr. Conway, president of |
Temple University, and noted for his lec-|
ture entitled .4cres of Diamonds, and Ad-
miral Sims, of the United States Navy, as |
well as several prominent judges of the mid- |

(Continued on page 6) \

DR. W. J: MARTIN
ELECTED TO
G. S. E.

At the recent meeting of the Gamma
Sigma Upsilon Chemical Fraternity,
Dr. W. J. Martin, President of David-
son College, was elected to honorary
membership in the fraternity.

Doctor Martin, before he
president of Davidson College, was
the head of the chemistry department.
He holds from Davidson,
Johns-Hopkins, and the University of
Virginia, and has done a great amount
ch work along chemical lines.
The fraternity feels especially honored
in having such a man counted among
its members.

became

degrees

Davidsonian Is
Voted the Best
Paper In State

At the eighth semi-annual convention of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Asso-
ciation, held at Elon College, May 1, 2 and 3,
The Davidsonian was voted the best college
paper in the state by the delegates from the
various: publications. The Trinity <lrehive
was selected as the best magazine.

The Exeeutive Committee of the Association
selected the three hest papers and the three
best magazines and cach delegation was al
lotted one vote for the best. The Davidson

ian, Trinity Chronicle and Tar Heel were

chosen as the three, leading papers of the
Association by the committee.

The Davidson College Magasine
among the three magazines selected, together
with the Trinity Archive and the Wake For
est Student. It is the policy of the Associa
tion cach spring to select the best publica
tions of the two types.

Wis

Zoth publications
which were selected received a majority on
the first vote.

Under the leadership of Liston Elkins.
The Davidsonian has had the best year in its
histor® ranking with the best college publi
in-the South. The
make-up of the paper is due to the co-opera
tion of the Presbyterian Standard Publishing
Company. which publishes the paper. Due to
the fact that the paper is printed in Charlotte,
20 miles away, proof cannot be read and
other difficulties in make-up and advertising
are encountered.

Despite these disadvantages, the work has
been systematized to such an extent that ony
once or twice during the entire year has the
paper come out late. The advent of the new
staff marks the beginning of the
decade of The Davidsonian’s history the first
10-year period ending when the 1923-24 stati
retired early in April.

cations well balanced

second

INFIRMARY NEWS

Only three men were confined to the
infirmary during the past week. P. B.
Freeland and Perry Priest had a case of
Flu and G. McMillan has a slight at-
tack of appendicitis.

EDITOR AND WRITER IS
SUNDAY “Y” SPEAKER

Rev. Wade C. Smith, pastor of the
Church - by - the - Side-of-the-Road, in
Greensboro, will speak at the “Y” serv-
ice Sunday. Mr. Smith has been in
the ministry only a few years, but in
that time he has become noted for his
service. He has been editor of The
Missionary Survey and Onward. He
also wrote the preface for the famous
Testament, Fishers of Men. Mr.
Smith is a man recognized for his
rate ability and wit have an cappropri-
ate message for the student body of
Davidson.

Price Wins State Tennis Championship In
Tournament at Greensboro Country Club

Davidson Net Star Keeps up Wildcat Record by Netting Championship
in State Meet

HARD FIGHT WITH SOLOMON

Carolina Man Sticks to Bitter End

With Harry Price But Routed in

Final Sets

Wildcat Nine Honored At
Feast By Gaston Alumni

Prominent Gaston County Alumni
Speak at Banguet Saturday
Clean Athletic Record Urged

The banquet tendered the Wildeat hase-
ball team Saturday evening by the Gaston
County Alumni happy
ending to the 1924 schedule. This affair, held
at the Gastonia Country Club, was an en
joyable one indeed to both the team and the
alumni and students gathered at the banquet
table.
pains to make the occasion one of henetit and
pleasure,

Association avas a

The live organization had spared ne

At 7:00 o'clock, the members of the team,
the coaches, several members of the student
body, and a darge number of loyal alumni o!
Gaston County, drove out to the clubhouse,
Hugh A.
Query, pr esident of the Association, acted us

where the feast had been spread.

toastmaster and called on prominent alumni
as well as members of the team, to mike
Clean Athletics

be the main theme of the addresses.

short) speeches, seemed ta
Bach
speaker added his bit to the general trend ot
talk, and gave his viewpoint on this side of
Davidson's work that it has always prided
itself upon. Applause followed cach specels,
especially when a point wits driven home,
relating to the betterment of the college aid
its ideals,

(Continued on page 5)

Charlotte Editor Makes

Impressive “Y” Address

Challenges Students to Develop In-
telligence to Accomplish Indi-
viduality

Challenges Faced by the College Men of
Today was the subject taken by Mr. Julian
Miller in his address before eo Vy why (Oy cay,
at the regular Vesper Service, Sunday even-
ing. Mr. Miller is news editor of the ( hiar-
lette News.

“No challenge came to the college men or
my day as comes to the present-day college
“The

civilization of today does not at all-measure

man,” began the speaker. material
up to all the calls for civilization.”

Mr. Miller reviewed the many mechanical
inventions and revolutions of -the age, and
brought out the fact that at present man has
more physieal power in his control whan ever
before.

“What I am interested
willing to let the young men of today go
out with all their renewed forces, is what
he will do with his increased powers. What
will the future do with its increased powers 7
What channels will this new power be exert
ed in?

“The challenges to the young college men
come under three main subjects. The first
is that of development of his personality.
The soulfulness of the nation is in danger of
being lost by the increasing prominence ot
machinery. The challenge to the men just;
coming into the use of their powers is
recover the power of personal expression.
Machines are being given the work to do,
und man is becoming subject to machinery.”

in, before I am

on the 16th,

The speaker brought out the statement, |
‘made by prominent men, that the public press

line steamer, the Mdeguolia.

Harry Price, Davidson's star tennis player
won the state tennis championship in’ the
North Carolina Intercollegiate Tennis Asse-
ciation tournament, played on the courts of
the Greensbore Country Club, last Saturday,
May 3. Inthe finals he defeated Abram
Solomon, representing — the
North Carolina, in a lengthy five-set fight,
4-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-0, 6-4.

Besides winning the state tithe, Price was
elected president of the North Carolina In-
tercollegiate Tennis Association, taking the

University of

place of retiring President Bruten, of Care-
lina, Solomon vice-president,
and Angulesto, Wake Forest Freshman star,
secretary-treasurer,

Staley, Beall and Trotter all defeated their
first Opponents in the first go-round, but met
in their In the
doubles Staley and Price went to the ‘semi-
finals, but were eliminated by Carolina.

was elected

defeats second matches,

Coming through to the finals, Price de
6-2; Whisnant,
of ‘Trinity, 6-2, 6-3, and Smith, of Carolina,
6-3, 8-6. The match Smith
one of the hardest in the upward elimb, and
Only

feated Smyre, of Lenoir, 6-1,

3-6, with W

foreed Price to show his best style.
his refusal te give up in the face of set potats
and his brilliant finish gave him the mateh,
Solomon took the first two sets, althourt
working hard all the time. Both were about
the same strength at) the beginning of the
tnateh, but a long match was apparent soon
after the

aiter winning

Tet-up
first two the
cause of his defeat. Price's greater endur-
while continually his
ponent’s backhand, brought him 12 games in

start. Solomon's natural

the sets

Was

ance, pounding op
succession, after dropping the first twe games
of the third set. In the fourth set Solomon
went almost entirely to pieces and could net
ol His,
back-court strokes fell short, while his vol

make any his strokes come right.
leys and overhead were anything but steady.

In the final set Solomon came back stron
and threatened) to the Price
started off with a two-game lead but Selo
all.

take mateh,
mon’s rally brought the score up to two
(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Parties
Plan Extensive
Journies Abroad

On June 1th, Miss Cornelia Shaw will
leave New York for Cherbourg, France, on
the Cunard liner Mauretania. Miss Shaw is
going with a party of North
The party is made up of 10 or 12 persons,
this number having been found by the tour-

Carolinians.

ing companies to be the most desirable size.
The party is going to take one of the Bab-
cock Tours.

The party expects to arrive at Cherbourg
The Mauretania is one ot the
fastest passenger ships afloat and at one time

made a record run from New York to Cher-

bourg in four days and 11 hours. The party
will spend about a month in Italy. Short
visits will be made in the countries of Hol-
land, Belgium and Switzerland. The trip
is planned so that the party will be in Paris
to attend the Olympic Games. The return

trip will be made about August 25, arriving
at New York on September Ist.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin, Miss Eloise
Martin and Miss Dickson Vardell, of Red
Springs. N. C., will sail on the United States
Miss Vardell is

of the nation has become subjected to the a niece of Mrs. Martin and is now social

mechanics of the profession. ‘
(Continued on page 3)

secretary of the First Presbyterian Church,
(Continued on page 6)
