THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

| 17—Rev. C. R. Jenkins, of Charleston, S.
po |C., has been preaching during the last few
'80—Dr. Beattie Jennings, pastor of the months in the mountains of North Carolina.
First Presbyterian Church of Germantown, | 1° will oa Ls Noe eee te Gore
Philadelphia, Pa. was a delegate to | pleted, as a missionary to Japan.

the |
meeting of the Federal Committee, at At- |
lanta, Ga. |

NOTES

‘24—J. B. Hunter was at home for Thanks-
| giving.

‘24—Reginald Price, former business man-
ager of the Davidsonian, is now a_ student
at Cornell.

MARRIAGES
Peden-Bryant
In a ceremony of distinct beauty, charm
and simplicity Miss Ernestine Nuttall Bry-

Grecian mythologies was next presented.
Pygmalion Up To Date depicted the wooing
of a wax figure of a man by young ladies
who let loose their most alluring wiles in or-
der to attract his attention. Miss Justus as
Pygmalion, acted the part of the immobile
wax figure to perfection, her male attire be-
jing faultless and complete. The freshy, the

Thompson, M. E. Weeks, L. Williamson, A.
M. Williams, M. Argo, A. Carr, A. Kinkles-
stein, G. Gee, H. Hamrick, C. King, N.
Lewis, H. Richardson, F, Smith, M. Van
Landingham, F. Arter, C. Bailey, R. Carpen-
ter, M. Hudson, M. Horton, M. E. Justus,
D. Mahaffey, C. Phillips, 1. Reams, H.
Smith, P. Early, M. Rankin, M. Horton, H.

tant, of Charlotte, and Dr. Jack Peden, of | power-puff girl, the booky girl, the flapper
Tulsa, Okla., were wedded last evening at | girl, and the summer girl all sung their love |
8:00 o'clock, at the executive mansion in| songs to the object of their admiration, but |

M. Smith, B. Glenn, FE. Dudley, E. Mears,

"98—Mr. C. T. Carr, Superintendent of | '23—F. C. (“Izzy”) Thames is professor S. Richards.

Young People’s Work in North Carolina, | of chemistry at Chicora College.

te er completed a session at Dr. B. R., a Raleigh, the bride being a niece of Gov. jin vain. Finally, the ‘Converse girl, repre) GLEE CLUB APPEARS HERE
acy’s church, in Atlanta, Ga. The following alumni were on the Hill] Cameron Morrison, Bishop Joseph Blount | sented by Miss Helen Richardson, broke |
last week-end: Willie P. Nesbit, ’20; J. R.| Cheshire officiated. down the bars of restraint, and the scene (Continued from page 1)

15—J. E. Faw, of the Southern Bell Tele- Maxwell, ’25, now principal of the high
phone ‘and Telegraph Company, formerly | School at Washington, N, C.; Dan Mallery,
stationed in Atlanta, Ga., is now in New | ¢x-'24-- Bob Stowe, '24; Davidson Hall, 19;

York City.

Dr. and Mrs. Peden left for a few days’
trip to New York, after which they will go
to Hot Springs, Va., for a month’s stay.

Mrs. Peden is the only daughter of the

ended with the embrace of the Converse girl
by Pygmalion,

The ensemble sang Dirte and the Converse
alma mater song in a grand and glorious

under the able leadership of Mrs, Coral
Baker, well-known Charlotte director; and
is said to be in well-nigh perfect condition,
Three performances, at Mooresville, Lenoir,

Broadway.

'24—A. M. McBryde and E. S. Faison are
at the University of Pennsylvania, studying
medicine.

18—Shelby T. McCly, after completing

his three years as a Rhodes Schol, is now |

Y. M. C. A. Secretary at Roberts College,
Constantinople. He writes: “The oriental
atmosphere is quite fascinating.
about 640 boys and 20 nationalities are rep-
resented,”

"11—Dr. Lester Morris is professor of
surgery in the University of Georgia. He is
the son of Rey. S. L. Morris, executive se-
retary of Home Missions of the Presbyte-
rian Church, :

18—Rev. W. C. Frierson pastor at
Blacky, Ky., where is located the Stewart
Robinson School, the second largest Presby-
terian school in the General Assembly.

1s

His address is Room 618, 195 Archie Keels, '24; Gig Shepherd, ‘24.

| DEATHS

} Rev. John Abner Harris died in his home
{in Green Mountain, N. C., November 8th,
| following a brief illness. He was a graduate
‘ot Davidson College, in the class of 1888. He
!was born in Iredell County, N. C., October
16, 1862.

Dr. J. H. Morrison, '75, and Rev. J. A.

| ned ; ; =
| Harris, 88, died during November.

We have |

Ex-'25—H. M. Moss, who is in business in
| Atlanta, Ga., paid the campus a visit last
| Wveek Mr. Moss is planning to re-enter col-
lege next fall.

‘24—R. E. Blue recently accepted a posi-
tion with the Charlotte National Bank.

Rev. C. L. Klontz, for seven or eight
years pastor of the Cornelius and Bethel
churches, recently resigned and has accepted
work secretary of Home Missions

as of

Wilmington’ Presbytery.

“BOY S$!’

When in Statesville why

not make headquarters

cov obo ooo

WALTER CU

LBRETH CO.

VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

Commercial

STATESVILLE, N. C.

We give you

PHONE 157

“She Notices the Cut”

That's why you should patronize the

NEXT DOOR TO POSTAL TELEGRAPH

HEADQUARTERS!!
FOR FINE AND MEDIUM FURNITURE

at Reasonable Prices

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.

Barber Shop

good quality

STATESVILLE, N. C.

i.

Those Frozen Eclairs!!

Um!

Um!

Where Do They Come From?

The Shelby Ice Cream Co.

STATESVILLE, N. C.

late Ernest B. Nuttall, of Rockingham, now
of Charlotte. She was educated at Queens
College, and is an exceptionally clever and
talented young woman. She have traveled
extensively in this country and in’ Europe
and is charming and vivacious and one of
Charlotte’s most popular members of society.

Dr. Peden is the only child of Mr. and
Mrs. A. S. Peden, of Fountain Inn, S. C.
He was graduated from Davidson College,
class of 1910, and from the University o

, Pennsylvania, and for the past three years
has been one of the most successful young
doctors in the state of Oklahoma. He was
overseas with a hospital unit during the
World War and is lieutenant commander in
Ithe reserve corps.
man of strong personality and is one of the
most popular young men in Tulsa. He is

theld in highest regard by countless friends |

jin the Carolinas.
| After the first of the year Dr, and Mrs.
) Peden will be at home in Tulsa, Okla.

McKay-Mountcastle
On the 20th of last month Mr. Woodrow

McKay, ‘15, was married to Miss Frances |

| Holt Mountcastle, of Lexington, one of the
|state’s most beautiful young girls.
| Kay at one time had two brothers at David-
| son. Mr. McKay is a brother of Mrs. Rob-

fert Glasgow, of Charlotte, and was formerly |
| one of Charlotte's most prominent young |
He is manager of the Ford agency in,

| men,
| Lexington and surrounding territory.

Mr. and Mrs. McKay are guests of Mr. |

| Henry Ford, at Wayside Inn, Sudbury, Mass.

Williams-Chitwood
Mr. and Mrs. Hampton Thomas
| wood announce the marriage of their daugh-
ter, Lois, to Rev. James Mack Williams, on
| Sunday, the 12th day of October, 1924.

| THE CONVERSE GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

| ;
most enjoyable that has appeared on a local

| stage in recent years.
The program was divided into four parts,

the grand finale ending with the singing of |

| Dixie and the Convers@ alma mater song.

| The glee club ensemble appeared on the stage |

at the drawing of the first curtain, and three
numbers were rendered, Also, two beauti-
ful solos were sung with great tenderness
and expression by Misses Justus and Rich-
ardson. The last two numbers were espe-
cially well received, To a Wild Rose and De
Gospel Train.

Dormitory Chap Suey was the title of the
second part, and it was given in a delight-
fully informal manner, the girls sitting in
semi-circles around the stage and taking part
in the chorus. Petite Peggy Thompson, the
(12-year-old violinist who accompanied the
| glee club, rendered two wonderfully executed
solos, and also played the obligato parts to
the songs and choruses.
eral plantation melodies which displayed to
|the fullest extent the splendid harmonious
voices comprising it. As an encore, they
| sang O Davidson.

The mandolin club was perhaps the most
enjoyable feature of the performance. Eight
young ladies gave a brilliant program of
| pieces on their instruments, and the piano
| accompaniment providing a rythm that fairly
|resounded throughout the hall. When Let
{Me Call You Sweetheart, was reached, the
| whole audience uttered low utterance of de-
light and contentment. Encore after encore
was called.

A burlesque on one of the characters of

A sextet sang sev-

Dr. Peden is a young |

Mrs. Mc- |

Chit- |

and Statesville, have won for the musicians
the members of the club started their way unbounded praise, and the club, this year,
almost immediately back to Spartanburg, in| promises to be one of the most complete and
big touring cars. Even though they were! powerful of the various collegiate musical
loath to go, the powers that be decreed that | organizations touring: the South.

the Davidson campus should not see the bevy The program for Tuesday evening will in-
of beauties for another 24 hours, clude a large list of popular choruses, a num-
ber of classical and popular solos, a variety
of novelty orchestrations by the seven-piece
jazz orchestra, and several offerings by the
hig symphony. ‘Tickets will go on sale ina
few days, and all students are urged to avail
themselves of the opportunity of hearing the
club before it leaves on its extensive tour

finish to the program. After the concert,

Miss Clara Baneroft was the capable di-
jreetor of the club, and the entire member-
ship reflected her thorough training. Almost
every seat in the house was taken, and the
Quips and Cranks, under whose auspices the |
performance was given, realized a neat sum
from the proceeds. : é ;

The personnel of the club was as follows: through the Carolinas and Georgia,
I, Anderson, B. Blanton, K. Blue, FE. Daug-
as, L. Graham, R. Lawrence, 1. Mattison,
K. Moody, A. M. Stewart, C.

Miss Lois’ Barnette is at home, ill with

Roberts, diphtheria.

| WARREN’S
of Philadelphia

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

Special Top Coats $25.00 Made To Order Suits $35.00

SHOWING 103 WEST
Monday, December 8th

JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
| Formerly of Guilford’s

EAT AT
THE ASTOR LUNCH

) SERVICE

aE |

THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase youa $250.00 personal
effects policy which protects you against fire and
theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis
Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal
property anywhere other than having it stored
in your own home.

| Write or see

dence Trust Company

Insurance Department
Charlotte, N. C.

Indepen

McAlister Carson, Manager ~
Phone 3940

