THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924

Campus Shieks and Yokels |

Bum Their Way to Charlotte

For the Great Clemson Game

Once more, on the Wildcat diary, we find

that a day, to which a double portion of space |:

has been allotted; a day that will be re-
membered for years to come as an’ epoch-
making and a record-breaking day; a day
that probably was looked forward to with a
greater degree of interest than any that has
gone before; has come and gone. This day,
in the minds of all true lovers of adventure
who now occupy a cell at the “Davidson
Deformity,” was truly a greater one than
our recent Hallowe'en, or our coming Val-
entine, or even our girls’ approaching birth-
day. To be sure, it mean more to some than
it did to others, whether according to their
degree of success in bumming a ride, or their
ability to shoot a hefty line to the fair
demoiselle who so faithfully yelled for our
heroes until she became slightly out of tune.
This notorious day was last Saturday, or the
day of the Clemson game in Charlotte.

The faculty, thanks to their ever-present
love, sympathy, and compassion, added to
the epoch-making factors of the day by
granting a change in. schedule that shortened
the day’s drudgery one hour. “But confident
that they had done their full duty and that
nothing more would be expected of them,
there was only one member who sacrificed his
accustomed pleasure of target practice.

The fact that no special train was run
necessitated the calling into service several
busses and cabs from the Queen City. Sevy-
eral of these “gold diggers” were waiting in
front of Rumple at the end of the fourth
hour, to:receive ambitious young men who
didn’t think that “much obliged” was suffi-
cient recompence for a ride to Charldtte.
~ Captain George's lads of the R. O. T. C.
Division, feeling very extravagant because
of the bonus which had just been promised
them, and feeling the necessity of their im-
mediate presence at the field, were the first
ones to jump at this proposition. Those who
preferred a more liberal policy began their
exit from the campus as early as the end of
the second hour. The latest report shows
that none of them had to walk the entire dis-
tance, but the tale told by the several corns
and. blisters is not to be entirely overlooked,

All those who were lucky enough to be
conveyed in private cars constitute a third
class. The outstanding members of this clags
are Messrs. Robt. D. Robertson and Harry
L. Estridge. These two gentlemen of leis-
ure made the entire student body sit up and
take notice. Several of the boys have been
able to’ secure private interviews with these
distinguished gentlemen with the hope of
discovering the secret of their prominence,
but, as yet, no satisfactory results have been
acquired. A committee, consisting of Harry
Price, Jimmy Hendrix and Fresh Ebney has
been appointed for further investigation of
the matter, but whatever truths may be dis-
covered, the committee has consented to
withhold the names of the young ladies in-
volved.

Another striking episode was the case of
R. L. Johnson and his extreme honesty.
Sometime during his servicé as a guard he
was approached by a ruddy-faced member of
the outside gang who attempted to bribe his
way over the fence with a drink of “moun-
tain dew.” It was a hard fight against temp-
tation, but our hero came out victorious, as
he always does, and refused to commit a dis-
honest act while away from his dear old col-
lege.
name upon his college, even at the expense
of several nights’ sleep and many hours of
worry, is nothing short of an act of valor,
and it has been whispered that he will be
presented with a chocolate-covered billiard
ball by Major Al Lake at the next “sham-
battle” practice.

None the less interesting is the experience
of our friend, Red Laird, who, feeling very
peptimistic over the game, wished to con-
tinue his fighting at the expense of his less
ill-disposed rival. Red. forgot that time
went by at a greater stride under certain
conditions than others, and his “weaker self”
felt that to call time on sg noble a character
would be a cowardly act, hence a third party
(not the gentle mother) was introduced up-
on the scene. On account of the extreme
delicacy of the matter, it will be necessary to
omit the most important details, but all who
are interested may call on Red in person and
learn the particulars. .

Only one more case of individual activi-
ties and then we will learn something of a
more general, nature. -.This és the <ase of
George Zimmerman, another guard who de-
serves mention. George took his “shieking
costume” along to don after the game. He

. carefully placed his soldier’s garb in his suit-

case and checked it at the “Y,” hoping to

Johnson’s refusal to reflect a bad|

DOINGS OF THE DAY

THURSDAY: ‘
6:45—Eumenean Literary. Society.
6:45—Philanthropic Literary Soc.
All Preparing to Frock Carolina.

SATURDAY:

3 :00—Davidson vs. Carolina,
7 :00—Movies.

SUNDAY:

10 :00—Bible Classes.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:00—"Y” Service.

MONDAY:
9:30 p. m.—Bible Classes Leaders’
Meeting.

TUESDAY:

6:45—Pandeinic Literary Society.

| 6:45—Metrophilian Literary Soc.

WEDNESDAY: H

| 9 :00—Junior Metrophilian Literary
Society. |

9 :30—Bible Classes.

call for it again about midnight. When a
|awoke from his pleasant slumbers on Sun- |
| day morning he realized that his suit-case had |
|not come home. Many of George's close
| friends were anxious to hear an explanation
|of this absent-minded act, hence the follow-
jing excuse, which scems to be very satisfac-
tory, was rendered. He said that his mem-
jory had not received as much training as
|some of the others of his acquaintance, since
|he didn’t memorize passages from Whiz
Bang every month. This question will doubt-
‘less be dropped without further comment.

Several of the football men were enter-
tained at parties, both social and otherwise.
Those who felt like seeing a good show vis-
jited some of the leading movies in Charlotte.
| All those who felt ill-disposed returned to
their nooks at an early hour; these were
;comparatively few. At present, there are
| still a few who have not answered to their
| ames, but it is thought that they are only
jlost for a short time, and that they will
soon return, bringing their empty pocketss
behind them.e

f

Supreme Court Judge Will
Talk to Y. M.C. A. Sunday

Judge T. B. Fraser of South Carolina
Supreme Court Secured as “Y”
Speaker

Through the efforts of the program com-
mittee of the Y. Mo C. A., Judge T. B.
Fraser, of the South Carolina Supreme
Court, has been secured to speak at the “Y”
vesper service next Sunday night. Judge
Fraser is the most popular member of the
South Carolina Supreme Court, and is known
as a very forceful speaker.

Judge Fraser has always been interested
in young men, especially college men. He
teaches a men’s Bible class in Sumter, S. C.»
and has shown an interest in all kinds of
work that concerns young men. He is one of
the well-known and respected citizens of the
state.

In the past the “Y” has secured some good
speakers, but with the reputation Judge
Fraser has and his love for college men, he
will doubtless draw an unusually large crowd.

ERRORS IN. DEBATING STORY
OF LAST WEEK CORRECTED

It was stated in the Davidsonian of
last week that the debate with Emory
last year was a triangular debate be-
tween Emory, Wake Forest, and David-
son, The result was a victory over
Emory and a defeat by Trinity.

There were several other errors made.
The debate is to be held in Atlanta on
December 5, not December 6.

The three speakers have all had pre-
vious experience in intercollegiate de-
bating. Hollingsworth, however, was on
the team which defeated Washington and
Lee, not Trinity, last year.

It might be added to what was said in
the article mentioned above that Whar-
‘ton was on the team which debated
Trinity in the spring. Williams was on
the Freshman team which defeated Caro-
lina in the triangular debate with Caro-
lina and Wake Forest.

Needless to say, these men are work-
ing hard to uphold Davidson’s excellent
debating record. -

The BON MARCHE SHOPS for MEN

“dress well and

Pd

New Slip-Over
Sweaters $3 to $7.50

---These smart new slip-over sweaters
are very popular among men who
succeed.’’
weight affairs in solid colors with
contrasting trimmings, at $3. Others

in fancy plaids and stripes, at $7.50.

j

The Shops for Men---Trade Street Entrance

Madras

sizes 13 1-2 to 17,

Light

Elano Oxford

---That solid white oxford shirt, with
collar attached, is the smartest shirt of
sport and business wear.

for Men offer them with barrel cuffs in

Shirts $2

The Shops

at this modest price.

Dr. H. W. White Lectures

About Demon Possession

Father of Former Davidsonian Tells

Psychology Class of Demonism
: in China

The members of Doctor Hood's class in |

Psychology were given the privilege of hear-
ing a talk last Saturday morning by Dr.
Hugh W. White, returned missionary from
China. While in China Doctor White made
a study of Psychology and has written a
hook, The Psychology of Demonology. We
spoke along this line Saturday morning.

Doctor White declared there are 100,000
people in China who are possessed with
demons just as there were people possessed
with demons in Palestine in the time of
Christ. One man he told about was just like
the man of Gadara, whom Christ cured. He
lived in the tombs, wore no clothing, and was
violent. Through prayer and teaching of
Christ this man has been healed, and is a
good Christian.

Some people have claimed that this was
merely a form of insanity, but Doctor White
showed that such was not the case. The
possession of demons is similar to dementia
praecox, where the person is perfeclty nor-
mal at times, then has attacks. It is also
similar to other forms of insanity, but phy-
sicians and the Chinese people themselves
say that is it demon possession. Demonism
works along lines of suggestion, and has said
to be auto-suggestion, but this theory has
been discarded.

However, auto-suggestion did furnish a
clue. There are two personalities, the nor-
mal person, and the demon. The patient at
times will be perfectly normal, then will be
seized by the demon, One thing has been
noticed to prove the true nature of the case,
and to assist in the cure. The mention of
tHe names of Jesus Christ cause a shudder of
fear. One old woman from the country who
had never heard of Christ was possessed
with a devil which made her speak of herself
in the third person, and want to get out of
“this Jesus place,” as the mission is called.
Through the teaching of Jesus Christ, and
through prayer, she has been healed. The
only cases where the missionaries have not
been able to effect cures have been where
the patient refused to give yp his idols.

Deméhnism is found in all heathen countries,
but is not found where Christianity has got-
ten-a-foothold. “It is wonderful,” said Doc-

| tor White, in closing “To believe that Jesus

Christ could, by speaking, cure persons pos-
sessed with demons, but it is still more won-
derful that He put into the minds of people
the way to rid themselves, and that they can
he healed today.”

Literary Societies

Eumanean Society

The weekly query was discussed in a very
interesting and instructive debate at the Fu-
menean Literary Society last week. W. HH.
Branch, substituting for an absentee on the
negative side, aided T. G. McCutchen in
securing a decision over W. C. Ogden. and
W. H. Lynch, of the affirmative. A’ sum-
mary of the most important recent current
events was given by Roseberry.

At this point the meeting was turned over
to the installation of the new officers. P.
B. Freeland, succeeding W. FE. Ramsay as
president, made an appropriate inaugural ad-
dress, briefly reviewing the past history of
the society. Tom Barr, retiring vice-presi-
dent, was succeeded by A. Y. Bowie; and
W. S. Woods, retiring secretary, by W. A.
Christian.

3efore adjournment two Juniors
clected as assistant marshals. Those chosen
were A, Y. Bowie and C. W. Bragaw.

were

points, the judges awarded the decision te
the negative by a vote of two to one,

Following the debate some very interesting
current events were given by Edgar. Com-
mittees were then appointed to take charge
the initiation of new men, which was
voted to be held at the next meeting. After
reports of the standing committees and the
disposal of all current business, the house
voted to adjourn,

Metrophilian Society

The Metrophilian Literary Society met last
Tuesday night with J. A. Thompson presid-
ing. Before beginning the program devo-
tional exercises were conducted by M. C.
McLeod.

The regular debate was won by J. E.
Singletary and R. M. Patterson over W. A.
Thomas and L, D, Wharton, of the affirma-
tive. The question debated was: Resolved,
That the super-power in the United States
should be controlled by the government.

As officers are to be elected at the next
meeting, notices will be sent out to all
members to insure a full attendance.

Miss Shaw has prepared a list of the books
in the College Library which are of most
interest to college men. Each week, one or
more sections of the list will be published in
The Davidsonian as a guide to the men who
like to do reading along these lines. The

Junior Eumanean Society
At the last mecting of the Junior Eur)
manean Literary Society the usual program |
of a debate and oration was rendered. The
query for debate was: Resolved, That |
super-power (water-power) should be con-|
trolled by the government, H
The affirmative side, consisting of H. F.
Peterson, Tom Tolbert and P. S, Tompkins, |
won the decision over the negative side, con- |
sisting of W. F. Stigler, F. C. Withers and |
J. J. Willard. The orations was given by
W. S. Sells.
Junior Metrophilian
After the devotional exercises, which were
conducted by C. McRae, a very spirited
debate was given at the regular meeting of
the Junior Metrophilian Literary Society on
last Wednesday evening. The query of the|
debate was: Resolved, That the government
should own all super-power of the United
States. The affirmative was ably upheld by
Gallant’and Hagood, while the negative side
was argued by Trabue and Smith. After
about 30 minutes of heated argument, in

which both sides brought out many strong

following gives the library number, title,
author, and date of publication of the books
on athletics:

790—Camp, Walter

C186 Book of Football_-------____ 1910
790—Camp, Walter
Cl86ar Athletes) vAll esos ee 1919

790—Clark, Ellery H.
C593 Track Athletics Up to Date--1920

790—Gill, Harry L,
G47 Track and Field Athletics----1922

790—Hamnnett, C. E.

H224 How To Be An Athlete___-_- 1923
790—Heisman, John W.

H473 Principles of Football_--____- 1921
790—Murphy, Michael C.

M978 Athletic Training...--.------- 1920
790—Roper, William W.

R78~ = Winning Football____--_____- 1920
796—Vardon, Harry

v29 Gist: ot: Golfoo2s2u2- 2 1922
