THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

The Frozen Faced Comedian
in Our

Hospitals

A Spectacular Seven-Reel

Comedy of a Kentucky
Feud a Hundred Years

Ago. Directed by
Buster
Keaton al
and Jack

Blystone

Movie Notes

Thomas Finch, 104 years old, who came 'nually. The general purpose of the association

to California during the first gold rush, saw |
his second railroad train at Truckee, Cal., |
recently, while Buster Keaton was making |
his Metro comedy, “Our Hospitality.” Finch |
saw his first railroad train in 1831. He has |
lived in the mountains for more than 60!
years.

Buster showed him his “Rocket” engine, |
of the primitive type used on American}
railroads about 1825. |

Finch looked long at the engine and
coaches. “So that’s the latest railroad ma-|
chinery,”’ he mused. “Well, it do beat all
what wonderful improvements human nature
is making. Things ain’t changed much since
I was a boy, howsoever. I remember trav-
elin’ over the B. & O. railroad on a train of
cars just like that back in 1831 when I was
about 12 years old.” }

Come and see an accurate description of
the historic “first trip” of the “Rocket,” the
‘fron monster” that revolutionized the trans-
portation system of America in 1830. You”'ll
laugh so hard you won't realize you're being
instructed,

yea n ' |
“The Eternal City” is coming next week. |
Don't fail to see it. £ |

The boys out in town who belong to the |
Hi-Y Club want to take a camping trip
soon, and the Y. M. C. A. is going to give
them a special show this week (Thursday
night at 7:30) in order that the receipts will
help defray the expenses. By a streak of |
good luck one of the most laughable com- |
edies of the season—Douglas McLean, in
“Going Up’—has been secured for the oc-
casion. There will also be a good two-reel
comedy in connection and everyone coming
out is sure of enjoying a good program.

Admission, 25 cents.

Thursday Night Show
The management takes this means of call-|
ing the students’ attention to the show to be |
held Thursday night, the proceeds to go to|
the local Hi-Y Club, which is doing a good |
work among the boys of the high school. |
The picture, “Going Up,” with Douglas Mc- |
Lean and Marjorie Daw starring, is a clean, |
wholesome comedy with the keenest of action |
and plot and not a dull foot of film. Many,
say that this is one of the best comedies of |
the season. It’s thrilling too, just wait un-|
til the airplane scenes where all kind of hair- |
raising stunts are pulled. |
In order that the literary society men may
see all the show, the first two reels will be
shown over after the main show, which will
begin at 7:30. The admission is two-bits. |
In connection there willbe a comedy, “No
Loafiing,” with “Poodles” Hanneford, the
famous Hippodrome star, as a headliner.

Misses Sarah Withers and Mary Grace
Prown leave Friday to spend a few days
with Mrs. Douglas Brown in Greens-
boro.

| head of the great Mississippi. It is not
\the lake that forms the river alone, but

f “Dr Martin ‘left Monday on a business

Niches in the Wildcat
Hall of Fame |

R. O. T.C. News

A. C. (Buck) Burns
58 D* 5’ 8”

Davidson has had some great fullbacks in
the past, but none greater than Buck Burns,
and although Sumter has sent some great !
athletes to Davidson, she has done no greater |
service than when she sent Alvin Caruthers
Burns. Buck entered school in 1915 and)

{immediately showed his excellence in the

game of “Hearts and Fists.” He made
scrub football his first year and then played
Varsity for two. In additions to his foot-
ball proclivities he played both baseball and
basketball. Burns was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity.

In commenting on Burns the Quips and
Cranks for 1918 says: “Buck made all-state
last year, this year mentioned all-
Southern, so next year, as captain, we will
expect him to make all-American. As a
line plunger he has no equal and no end has
yet been found who.could stand up under
his smashing interference. In the Navy
game his work stood out above all the rest,
and to him the credit for our showing in that
game is due.”

“The great fullback dashed around end and
completely Strupper.”"—Atlanta
Journal, Tech game.

Buck was truly a great player, playing in
the same backfield with Henry Spann, Jack
Black and Buck Flowers. In addition to be- |

Was

ran over

jing a fine athlete, Buck was and is, a true,

likeable gentleman. At present he is in the
hardware business in Sumter, S. C.

I. R. C. CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)
Many notable and able speakers followed |

him, and from the conference a permanent |

association was formed, embracing 10 South-
ern States with conferences to be held an-

is to bring closer together these groups of |
Southern students interested in world con- |
ditions into a yearly conference for the
purpose of studying and discussing those
problems most pertinent to our nation’s and |
the world’s welfare. |

A committee on constitution drew up a
report which was ratified by those present
and the organization thus formed was given |
the name of The Southern Students Asso-
ciation on International Relations. Officers |
for the coming year were elected as fol-|
lows: President, J. A. Gathings, Furman; |
lst vice-president, Miss Dorothy Keith,
Agnes Scott; 2nd vice-president, Miss Rhoda
Ellison, Randolph - Macon; corresponding
secretary, Miss Kate M. Betts, Winthrop;
recording secretary, M. B. Wallace, Wof-
ford; treasurer, Miss Nancy Day, G. W. C.

The meeting next year will be held at
Winthrop College. A debate between rep-
resentative schools in the association is a
feature of the program planned by the com-
mittee.

lll

MAN’S MEASURE IS INCOME—
GOD’S MEASURE IS OUTGO

Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union
Theological Seminary, spoke to the Min-
isterial Band last Sunday afternoon. Af-
ter the song service led by Joe Garrison, |
the Scripture lesson was read by Paul |
Freeland. The lesson was taken’ from|
Acts 20:28-35. |

Dr. Moore took as the basis of his talk |
the words of Paul: “It is more blessed |
to give than to receive.” He first told
of the beautiful Lake Itasca, in Minne-
sota, which is at the head of the Miss-
issippi River. This lake is fed by the
streams from the mountains, and in turn
waters the wheat fields, then forms the

the lake is made more beautiful and
more useful because of it. On the other
hand, ‘the Great Salt Lake of Utah, and
the Dead Sea have no outlets, but hold
all the water which flows into them. As
a consequence they are salty, there is
no life in them or on their banks. They
receive but do not give.

That it is more blessed to give than to
receive sounds paradoxical at first, but
it is true. Giving requires life and
action. One who receives is like a
bucket which does not need life to re-
ceive the things poured into it. The
strength of the human body is kept by
giving. If it were not for exercise the
body would become weak and useless.
The Bible gives proof that it is more
blessed to give than to receive in. the
words: “There is that scattereth yet in-
creaseth; there is that holdeth to meat
but is impoverished.”

trip to New York.

}held in Atlanta, February 29th.

}of the local unit.

COLONEL FALLS INSPECTS
LOCAL UNIT

The recent inspection by Col. Moore N.
Falls, R. O. T. C. officer Fourth Corps Area,

| was the most thorough the unit has had since

its organization. The work done to date
was investigated in minute detail, The hours
devoted to each subject, theoretical and prac-

|tical, with resulting grades by each student

per month, received his closest attention.
The grade that each student received during
the first semester formed another record that
was studied very closely. The Freshman
markmanship record, with an average ef
over 40 for every man in the class, was also
given very close study. :

Every section of class room work with the
exception of one only, was visited and in
doing this the Colonel was interested particu-
larly-in class room facilities—the number of
students in each section, and the preparation
of lessons. As it was impractical to have
outdoor drill (due to the melting snow), one
company drilled in the gymnasium to demon-
strate the degree of proficiency attained in
close order, squad, and platoon) drill, and
company calisthenics. “D" Company was
chosen for the gymnasium drill since the
first platoon in that company won out in
the platoon competion.

The Colonel's final comment on all that
he had observed was, “I am glad that I came
at just such a time as this, for if you are

this good under such weather conditions, I

know that you must be all right.” So it
seems that the Colonel was very much im-
pressed with our unit and from what was

/gathered from all his remarks, it is expected

that he will give a very favorable report.
Association of R. O. T. C. Colleges
A meeting of the Association of R. O. 1

C. Colleges of the Fourth Corps Area was

Davidson

| College was represented by Captain Weems,

The topic of most interest

to Davidson was the matter of commutation

of uniform for all classes in Senior Di-
.

visions, R. O. T. C. Beginning next year
Davidson will have Commutation of Uni-
forms for the Advance Course Students, and
within two years it is believed that there will
be a distinctive R. O. T. C. uniform for all
classes of the Division.

It is interesting to note that during the
past year the War Department received 58
applications for R. O. T. C. units which
could not be filled.

Dr. Harvey W. Cox, president of Emory
University, was elected president of the as-
sociation, and Dr. W. J. Martin,’ of David-
son, vice-president.

BARRAGE OF SNOW

(Continued from page 1)
meaux, since the ammunition was more suit-
able to the latter.

Immediately after the mid-day repast the
rapidly accumulating crowd of icemen gath-
ered in front of Miss Minnie’s Emporium
and snowed under the later Post Officers
who permeated the scenery around Captain
Cranford’s and Uncle Sam's shop. A few
scattering balls were thrown, but most were
reserved for later in the afternoon. After
the Greenies had been run to the dormitories,
they were ferreted out in rotation, begin-
ning with the Barracks and continuing up!
unto Rumple, the were
forced to run to escape the veritable ava-
lanches of glaceous substance that struck
them. Many chose to runthe line down the
row dormitories and the Sophs made
merry with the free targets and ammunition
while the arena held forth. Some of the
reluctant ones were haled forth and doused,
others seemed to revel in the cold stuff, All
in all it was a fine afternoon, until “Lias
Faison got smart with some of his brilliant,
raillery, and the bad boys knocked his door
down and put mean old snow down his neck.
He was going off, too, and all dressed up.

where new boys

of

YOUNG ROMEO CAPTURES
FAIR JULIET

The majority of the student body, and}
quite a number of alumni will be inter- |

James Polk, ex-'25. Polk will be remem-
bered as the queer talking boy from
New Jersey.

The marriage took place, in Atlanta,
1924. The
lady's name before her marriage to Mr.

Ga., on January 9, young

Polk was Miss Lula Belle Barnes.

Polk, in reporting this item of news
to a friend on the campus remarked that
nothing could beat married life. He

gave a vivid description of the fair
“Juliet,” and one part of the description

is especially striking—that giving the
height of his bride—four feet, five
inches. This is quite a contrast to the

height of the groom, it being something
like six feet two or more.

Although the news of this marriage is
somewhat of a surprise to some, it will
not be to those who knew Polk, for he
was and continues to be noted for doing
the unusual,

CAROLINA’S LEADING
CLEANERS and DYERS

“PARTICULAR WORK
FOR PARTICULAR
PEOPLE”

AMERICAN DRY
CLEANING CO.

1406-08 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

K. 8. McALPIN

College Representative
108 West

ested to learn of the recent marriage of!
j |

HUN dunia,

MICHAEL FARADAY
1791-1867

Apprenticetoan English book-
binder. Attracted the atten-
tion of Sir Humphrey Davy,
becoming his assistant. ‘‘The
greatest experimentalist of all
times,” says one biographer.
The electrical unit Farad was
named for him.

In 1880 the Edison
Electric Illuminating
Company, of New York
City, installed a genera-
tor of 1200 lamps cap-
acity, then considered
a giant. By continuous
experimentation and re-
search the General
Electric Company has
developed generators
900 times as powerful
as this wonder of forty
years ago.

“What's the use of it?”

Michael Faraday saw the real beginning

of the age of electricity nearly a century
ago when he thrust a bar magnet into a
coil of wire connected with a galvanometer
and made the needle swing.

Gladstone, watching Faraday at work in
his laboratory, asked, “What's the use of
it?’”” The experimenter jestingly replied,
“There is every probability that you will
soon be able to tax it.” The world-wide use
of electricity that has followed the Faraday
discovery abundantly justifies the retort

to Gladstone.
Faraday’s theory of lines

of force is con-

stantly applied in the Research Laboratories
of the General Electric Company in de-
vising new electrical apparatus of which
Faraday never dreamed. Every generator
and motor is an elaboration of the simple
instruments with which he first discovered

and explained induction.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

