6

THE DAVIDSONIAN,. FEBRUARY. 21,

1R2A.

DR. T. W. LINGLE’: TO MAKE
EXTENDED SUMMER TOUR

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, professor of
French at Davidson College, is planning a
tour of France and Switzerland during the
coming summer. This tour is personally con-
ducted by Dr. Lingle, who has conducted five
tours pervious to the one now proposed. He
is thoroughly familiar with French customs
and manners, as well as with the customs
of other European nations. Such experience
as Dr. Lingle has had will enable him to
select the points of most interest and value
to the students, and to point out the historic
spots with accuracy.

As planned now the party will leave New
York on June 17th on the French steamer,
“Roussillon,” landing at Bordeaux and Vigo.
From this point the party takes a trip to the
Basque coast and country, including San
Sebastian in Spain.

Returning to France, they visit Lourdes,
Pau Biarritz and tramp the high Pyrennes.
Next they traverse southern France on the
Rhone Valley, stopping at Toulouse and
Nimes. On this trip they also visit Cannes,
Monte Carlo, ‘the French Riviera to Nice.

The party then goes to Italy, where they
visit San Remo and Genoa.

Returning to France, they drive over the
famous Route des Alpes, also visiting Cham-
onix and Mer de Glace.

They next go to Switzerland, going to
Geneva, Lucerne, Basel, Montreux and In-
terlaken, :

Leaving Switzerland, they re-enter France
at Mulhouse and Belfort, Alsace to Strous-
burg, Nancy, St. Mihiel and Verdun, and
other famous battlefields. They visit Rheims,
thence to Paris for ten days, and on to
Lille, Calais and Dunkirk.

They visit Bruges and Ostend, in Belgium.

Taking steamer at Ostend, they cross the

WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT
YOUR POLICY?

Question: What procedure is
followed when the assured and the
company fail to agree on the amount
of the loss?

Answer: Submitted to appraisers.

W. E. PRICE

30 W. 5th St. Charlotte, N.C.

We Invite Your

Business

LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE
TRUST CO.

“ON THE SQUARE”

CHARLOTTE N. C.

English channel to London, and visit Cam- | 9; Carlyle 2 out of 3; Pagano 0 out of 1,
bridge. | Referee:. Bethel (W. & L.)

Recrossing the English channel from, Charlotte “Y” Game
Southampton, they sail from Le Havre on| Charlotte “Y” defeated the Wildcats the |
August 19th on the French steamer “La! second time this season when she turned |
Savoie,” arriving at New York on August | back the Davidson quintet on the local gym |
28th. llast Monday night by the score of 37-23. |

The cost of the trip is $860, including | The game was listless and uninteresting, void
transportation on land and sea; meals while of pep, with inaccurate shooting, and poor |
on the trip; admission to museums, fees to’ pass work. Both teams failed in their re-
guides, etc. peated attempts to cage points, Charlotte

Such a trip at such a moderate price, con-! making several long for counters,
ducted by one who is so familiar with the | however.
country and at the same time sympathetic,! The only feature of the game was the
is indeed a pleasure for anyone who wishes | shooting of Yates, pivot man for the Char-
to see places of interest. lotte team. He chalked’ up 18 of the Queen
| City’s counters, almost half the entire score.
| Staley, who has been playing such a brilliant
game for the Wildcats so far this season,
failed to make a single point, while the shoot-
ing of the team in general was poor. Laird
and Sapp vied for honors on field goals,
both making four apiece, but “Red’’ made
two points by foul goals. Sapp only played |
part of the game.

The scoring at the beginning was all on
Charlotte’s side, they making five points be-
fore Laird was able to make one point by a
foul throw. The Wildcats came up until |
the score stood 8 and 8, but they failed to
take the lead and at no time during the con-
test did they have it. The half ended 14 to
12 in favor of Charlotte, Laird having scored
cight of Davidson’s markers in this half.

Davidson failed to stage her usual come-
back in the second half, and Charlotte varied
between an eight or ten point lead until the
last few minutes of play, when they made
a couple of loops for a final difference of

shots

RED AND BLACK QUINT

(Continued from page 1)
game was one of those rare nip and tuck
always exciting games with the teams never
far separated. Three minutes from the close
the visitors shot two field goals m_ rapid
succession, coming to within four points of
tying the score, but a Davidson rally netted
a goal and strong defense which put a safe
lead which was held to the end. The end of
the first half showed the Wildcats leading
16-15, having held the lead from after the
first couple of minutes and holding it
throughout the second half of play. Score:

S. Carolina
Wright (14)

Davidson Position.

Staley (13)

aitdeGl0) cc caueceneeneenoe. Lillard (5)
Left forward
Davis: (8) s2sse SSeS ceases ice Swink (10)

Center

McConnell (4) —----- Nee ee McSwain 14 points, with the score standing 37-23.
Right guard | Playing against the Wildcats were two
BOR RS es tree ILS Abrams | former Davidson men. John Schenck, grad- |
Left guard !uate of the class of ’21, was pitted against |
Substitutions—Davidson: None. South Laird, while Alex McMillan, ex:'26, was)

playing a forward position, with Boggs as
an opponent. Together they made five points
for Charlotte.

Immediately after the game the Wildcats
left for their only road trip, where they were

Carolina: Long for Abrams; Abrams for
Lillard ; Gasque for McSwain. Fouls: Davis
0 out of 1; Staley 2 out of 6; Laird 1 out |
of 3; Wright 4 out of 9; Lillard 1 out of 3. |

SS RECHT GALL to meet Wake Forest, Guilford and State.
Wake Forest Game | Davidson has registered a win over both |
The third collegiate game lost by the | Guilford and State, but Wake Forest de- |
Wildcats this season went to Wake Forest! feated the team here last week. The men
last Thursday night, the score being 32-22, making the trip were: Davis (Capt.), Sta- |
The game was one in which Referee Bethel ley, Laird, Boggs, Sapp, McConnell, Mal-|
called fouls frequently, honors for fouling lory and Beal.
being about evenly divided. Davidson had) Davidson (23)
12 called on her quint, and 11 were called on Staley
the Baptists. As a culmination of these |
frequent fouls, each team had a man put) Laird (10)
out, Captain Davis being sent to the side-
lines, as well as Modlin, for Wake Forest.

Charlotte “Y” (37)
OOo ane ao Ree ees Nieman (10) |
Right forward |
weunasessebese. McMillan (3)
Left forward |
Yates (18) |

Pos.

'Davis (4)

Davidson did not have the fighting spirit | Center |
she showed the night before when she had) McConnell (1) ~~-------------- Smith (2) |
defeated South Carolina in one of the most | Right guard |
brilliantly played games played this season.) Boggs ----.----------------- Schenck (2) |

Staley’s eye was not focused on the basket,
and he was not able to make a field goal.

» The first half of the game ended with a
10-point lead for Wake Forest, 23-13, and
the game ended with the same margin of
points in the Baptists’ favor. The Wildcats
did not show any tendency to overcome the
lead, and Wake Forest maintained it through-
out.

Laird and Greason shared honors evenly,
| both making nine points. The Wake Forest
team all shot the sphere, their scoring being
almost evenly divided among the entire team.

Davidson (22) Position. W. Forest (32) |
Staley (2) Madlin (7)

Left guard
Substitutions—Sapp (8) for McConnell ; |
McConnell for Sapp; Sapp for Davis; Leep- |
er (2) for McMillan; McMillan for
Schenck. Fouls: Staley 0 out of 1; Laird |
2 out of 3; McConnell 1 out of 2; Sapp 0}
out of 2; Nieman 2 out of 3; McMillan 1 |
out of 3; Smith 0 out of 1; Schenck O° out
of 1. Referee: Hengeveld.

|

|
|CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR HOLDs|
ENJOYABLE. SOCIAL |
THURSDAY |

The Senior Christian Endeavor held a)
social last Thursday night. There were |
‘ about 20 of the Tnembers present. Miss |
Greason (9) |. ' SUR |

Ellen Black, chairman of the social. com- |
=) | mittee, had charge of the social. The en- |
Emerson (6) ‘ ; ; ‘Nira

tertainment of the evening was begun a

“ }a game which enabled each person present to
Carlyle (4) heteas Unni

any member whom they had not met |
before, and following this were various oth- |
‘er forms of entertainment. In the midst of |
|much merriment, refreshments were served |
which consisted of fruits and candies. These |
were arranged very attractively, and appeal-

Laird (9)

Left for sen é
Davis

(4)

| Right guard
BGggse()}) 2 eee eee
| Left guard

| Substitutes—Mallery (1) for Davis; Sapp
| (2) for McConnell; Green for Madlin.

| McConnell (3)

Pagano (6)

of 2; Greason 1 out of 1; Emerson 2 out of |

with a short prayer.

Sunday night an interesting program was

| splendid as well as a patriotic affair.

Fouls: Sts ; Lai ; ; a
| at 2 tal ee ie x erie ’ \ed both to the eye and taste. Following’ this |
ier Boevs Wotob 3: Madlin 1 ou | there was a short ‘devotional exercise, and |

the society disbanded until Sunday night, |

Town News

Mr. W. C. McLaughlin, of Hangchow,
China, while in town for a couple of days
last week, stayed with Dr. and Mrs. Harding.

The Thelemite Book Club will meet on
next Friday with Miss Mary Young. Dr.
Hood will address them on a subject con-
nected with Psychology.

Mrs. Weldon Schenck and son, Fairchild,
have taken apartments at Mrs. Paisley’s for
the spring.

Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum was hostess to the
Young Matron’s Club on Friday of last
week, Mrs. Malcolm Rumple, recently re-
turned from Buenos Aires, was a guest of
the club.

Mrs. George Woolsey, of New York City,
has returned home after a visit with rela-
tives in Davidson.

Mrs. Henry Louis Smith, of Lexington,
Va., and Mrs. Frank Brown, of Salisbury,

were visiting in town for a few days last
week,

Mrs. J. Moore McConnell is planning a
colonial tea for the Davidson Civic League, |
to be held on the evening of February 26th, |
in the College gymnasium, as a Washington’s |
birthday function. It is expected to be a}
The |
proceeds will go to the fund for the build‘ng
of the League’s new club house. |

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Dice will arrive in
Davidson this week to visit their cousin, Mrs. |
White. |

Mrs. Shewmake, of Williamsburg, Va., Hs!
now the guest of her son, Dr. E. F. Shew-
make.

Mr. Bob King, who is conducting a series |
of meetings on the campus, is the guest of |
Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle. |

berecorrmrrorr meres |

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained |
Friday afternoon by Mrs. Hamilton, Miss |
Shaw and Mrs. Withers. The topic of spe- |
cial interest on this occasion was the study |
of Gothic Architecture. |

The last meeting of the Mission Study
Classes was held in the Davidson Presbyte-
rian Church last Wednesday evening. At
the conclusion of the regular class work an
enjoyable social was held and light refresh-
ments served. Members of Mrs, Archibald
Currie’s class of about 40 young people were
guests at a very delightful supper at 6:00
o'clock of the same evening.

Dr. Egbert Smith is now giving the Smyth
lecture course at the Columbia Theological
Seminary. The'subject of this year’s. Smyth
lectures is that of foreign missions.

SHOWING AT
DAVIDSON
MONDAY, MARCH 17th

GLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

(

The DINNER SUIT

“DEBONAIR, comfortable,
tailored with the care that in-
sures both smartness steed
from materials approved by ex-
clasiva tel es comstatextends
to the price.

DINNER SUIT
(Shawl collar or notch)

$39.50

d and sold exclusively by
NATLUXENBERG«Bros.

New address

N. W. Cor. 13th St.
New York City

Manufs

B41 Broadway
Stuyvesant 9898

Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent
free on request.

CENTRAL
MILLER’S PR

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

and

Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest
.

HAT SHOP
ESSING CLUB

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

‘A cap as good as the cream”

High praise for Williams Shaving Cream is contained in
this suggested slogan for the Hinge-Cap. Yet truly, the
combination of faster beard-softening, elimination of razor
friction through lubrication of the skin, and the extra-
ordinary care of the skin which Williams gives, has never
been equalled by any other shavingcream. And Williams
is a pure product, absolutely without coloring matter!
Begin on a tube—compare it in every way.

e e
$250 in Prizes

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the
Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize
$100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes,
$10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each.
graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit
identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of
the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight
March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon there-
after as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write
on one side of paper only, putting name, address, college and
class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor,

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE [held ante peapege eer 2 He
WHITE BUS LINE | Program. e subject was “Sin,” and the
{scripture lesson was found in John. The
Leaves Charlotte | subject was discussed from all standpoints, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
Gharinde: A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M. and all were urged to check up upon them- |
Sagem nnn BH tah Eile ce fet here they she
Carmelust a ee ee 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:28 program was cut short in order for the}
Davidson --.. ---. --- bees 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30 executive committee to meet. The society |
Mooreryille oon aes 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45 was dismissed with the Mibpah. Due to}
Statevitie GEE Goa cia ce ae eee Ay gue lack of time the meeting of the executive
a aaa aes eae ea fete; ‘ll : ; : committee was postponed until Monday |
ves esville ~ night.
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M. ieee :
pupreeville a4 10 i 4 He 4:30 Miss Margaret Adams entertained the |
routman : 3 ; 4:45 Sutzer club last Tuesday evening. Pink and |
peeeuile Sins is ny aie on0 white ice cream was served as refreshments.
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5130 Mrs. H. B. Elliott was a guest of the aft-
Be arsri 6 on an So 3 i 5:45 ernoon. : :
Be: : : i 4: 6:30 .¢.
For Further Information See Driver * Miss Mary Owen Graham has been visit-
ing Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie.

Any undergraduate or

