4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE-_.-.------..-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-..-.—- Business Manager
Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH. Managing Editor
WiehigMIBTON Ss cccciccsecseuere. Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK..._-- --Assistant Managing Editor
A. F, SIMPSON_- ---Peanut Parcher Editor
ij A. LAKE.. --«---Associate Editor
1. B. PRICE. --Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW... Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS ---Alumni Editor
L. D. WHA -Athletic Editor
Business Staff
J, A, THOMPSON, ----------Circulation Manager
rc. cSWA .-Subscription Manager
Gears NSLWResssscccaucsncuuesrducsecunonoceutens Bookkeeper
Naor Service Manager

Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. J. E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEB - FE. P. O'CONNOR
H. M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON BR. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON EK. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH J.

B. THOMPSON
;. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

‘-EDITORIAL

WILDCAT SPIRIT

P. F. JONE:
W. H. LYNCH

The Wildeat spirit has come*to the front
once more, and in last Saturday's game with
the Wolfpack has gained recognition from the
sporting world of the Carolinas. Any team
which with six minutes to play can overcome a
seven-point lead to tie a twenty pounds heavier
team must be endowed with an indomitable
lighting spirit. The fighting spirit has not been
lacking in past years, but this season Davidson
has developed the needed punch in addition.

The Raleigh News and Observer in com-
menting on the hattle says:

Davidson's performance Friday in stopping N.

C. State 10-10 at Pinehurst would be considered

farther much of an upset coming from any other

team than the Wildcats.

But that is just the
Presbyterians’ style.

They want to win football
games and they play with that end in view with
the result that they usually do win and are sel-
dom beaten,

Larger colleges in the State would do well to
emulate the Wildeat spirit in this respect.

The Wildcat spirit is evervwhere regarded as
the outstanding factor in the plucky exhibitions
which Davidson teams have always made.
Never has a Davidson team considered the
game over until the final whistle, and it is this
fact which has kept the ight Davidson teams in
the running.

To no one belongs more credit for this sea-
son’s success than to Coaches Monk’ Younger
and Tex Tilson. Out of light, inexperienced
material, they have molded a Red and Black
machine which is the best which has represent-
ed the college in several years. The fight and

| German, the Turk, and the Bulgar.

enthusiasm which is manifest on the campus is |

a direct*tribute to the good work of the foot-
hall mentors, and a proof that the Wildcat
spirit is not an intangible thing, but a spirit
which finds expression in all of the varied ac-
tivities of college life.

The Wildeat spirit is in evidence on the
campus in other ways than athletics. The foot-
hall team is the medium by which the spirit is
shown to the outside world. It is a reflection
of the spirit evidenced in campus life—not only
a fighting spirit, but a spirit of harmony and
co-operation, that friendly spirit which unifies
campus life and makes Davidson what it is.

The spirit of perfect co-ordination has as
much to do with making a football team as the
fighting spirit which holds hack the enemy, for
without the former a smashing offense would
he impossible and the latter is necessary in the
formation of an airtight defense. The Wild-
cats this year have both, and it is this combina-
tion which makes the Wildcat spirit.

The unity of the student body, and friendli-
ness between every one has always marked Da-
vidson life. The close connection between all
the members of the student hody is what has
kept the Davidson spirit alive. This is the true
hasis of the Davidson spirit.

Whatever the activity may be, whether ath-
letics, debating, writing for the college publi-
cations, or the daily grind of class work, he
who puts all he has into the matter in hand is
the man who is living up to the ideals of the
Wildeat: spirit, and the man who will succeed
in the game of life. 2

We students of Davidson are proud of our
foothall team; we are proud of the coaches who
make it possible; we are proud of the Davidson

ideals-which-rule-in- our -hearts. and make_the
school what it is. Whatever the line of activity
or whatever the line of work in which we are
engaged let us remember that
When the one great Scorer comes to write against
your name,
He writes not how you won or lost, but how you
played the game.
It is the spirit and not the result that counts.

ARMISTICE DAY

Next Tuesday the whole civilized world
unites in celebrating the end of the most ter-
rible conflict ever waged in the history of
man. Six years ago the guns were still
booming and Allies and Hun were still en-
gaged in the fight to determine whether
freedom or tyranny should prevail.

Then came the eleventh of November, a
day which the world can never forget, when
after more than fifty months of continuous
fighting the white flag was hoisted and the
carnage ceased,—the eleventh of November,
1918, the preatest day in the progress of
freedom and democracy since that July day
one hundred and forty-two years before,
when a band of patriots signed the Jeffer-
sonian document which gave our country its
independence, and the world a statement of
democratic freedom.

One sunny July day ten years ago, an Aus-
trian prince was assassinated, and with this
as a pretext, the world was plunged into the
bloodiest and most cruel war ever known.
With an efficiency which proclaimed care-
fully laid preparations, Germany and Aus-
tria flung their armies into Belgium and
France, Russia and Servia, intending and ex-
pecting to sweep all before them in their
victorious march—and they almost succeed-
ed.

With the College Editors

Chaff

PUTTING A KICK IN AMUSEMENTS — B C

When men are rightly occupied, their amusement
grows out of their’ work, as the color petals out of a
fruitful fower; when they are faithfully helpful and
compassionate, all their emotions are steady, deep,
perpetual and vivifying to the soul as is the natural
pulse to the body.

In the above we have a very brief summary of Rus-

| kin’s attitude toward amusement and work which is

quite as true of today as then.
What the writer has to say in this regard may seem

| perhaps a bit rambling and disconnected but it is a lit-

| they can enjoy is food that is highly spiced.

tle known fact that there are a lot of people in this
age who by the time they have reached middle age
have so mistreated their stomachs that all of the food
In
other words, they have eaten so carelessly that it takes
a dash of cayenne pepper to spur their sense of taste
to appreciation,

Many of us are the same way abqut amusements.
Bridge is an excellent game that requires skill and

| concentration and offers an opportunity for sociability,

Belgium, England, France, Japan, Servia,

end Russia were arrayed against the forces
of the Kaiser Wilhelm and the [mporer
Franz-Joseph in a desperate fight for the
preservation of the autonomy of themselves
and other nations. The five European na-
tions had warded off the first rush of the
Hun, but their lands were still overrun and
their homes menaced by the Austrian, the
Italy,
who had remained neutral, cast in her lot
with the Allies,

Still the conflict raged-and the Central
Powers kept the offensive. .They turned
their attentions. toward neutrals and non-
combatants and with their nefarious sub-
marine warfare killed thousands of innocent
women and children, Fora time the United
States hesitated. There was a division of
sentiment which could not be overlooked,
But there was a limit beyond which the
Germans could not pass with impunity. They
passed it; and on the sixth of April, 1917,
America declared war. Smaller powers fol-
lowed and twenty-three nations and states
were arrayed, if not actively at Teast in

name, against the “mailed fist” of the
Kaiser.
The conflict seemed never-ending. Mil-

lions of lives were sacrificed on both sides
but peace seemed impossible, Fighting side-
by-side with their allies who had held out
for three years against the attacks of the
enemy, the doughboys relentlessly thrust
back the Hun in the Argonne, at Chateau-
Thierry, at Belleau Wood, and along the
whole front.

The Germans were weakening.
weapons which had made the war the most
cruel in history were being used against
them with telling effect. They were being

| pushed steadily back toward their own bord-
| er, and they were ready for peace. They

signed the Armistice, and a world which for
four long years had been plunged into the
depths of sorrow and hatred became sud-
denly gay—hysterical with joy.

A step toward making the world “safe
for democracy” had been taken. Mothers
and sweethearts would see their loved ones

| once more—all who had not already gone

into the great beyond. The men who had
fought in all the mud and muck of the
trenches had the assurance that they would
see home again—all but those whose homes
and loved ones had been wiped out by some
German bomb or shell. It was a day of joy,
tinged with the greatest sorrow the world
has ever known,

The Hun was beaten, but at what a cost.
There are some who say that the war should
have gone on until the Allies should have
marched triumphant through the gates of
Berlin. But these fail to take into consider-
ation that human life is the most valuable
thing in the world. The fact that even one
son was saved to his mother, more than
overbalances the prestige which an entrance
into Berlin would have given the Allies, or
the humiliation of the Germans which the
world longed to see.

Although it is a day of happiness, sorrow
claims a large share in the remembrance of
Armistice Day.) The metwory: Gi ‘ie “vead
who-fought for our freedom is ever with us.
To us.at Davidson, there comes a closer bond
for twenty of Davidson’s sons made the su-
preme sacrifice during the great struggle.

but there are people who play so much that these two
factors lose their edge, and in order to keep up a
jaded interest in the game a little money is placed on
the outcome, It is only an admission that the mind is
losing Some of its keenness.

Humor gets up against the same proposition. The
time of good, wholesome jokes is getting dimmer
with the passing days. We do not get enough kick
out of the kind of thing that ‘Mark Twain immortal-
ized. We want the dash of the risque before we can
appreciate humor. It much easier to add the
spices than to spend time in adding the cleverness.
Just another indication that the speeding up process is
getting the best of our better selves.

Perhaps the worst thing about the social gambling
is that it is an admission that we are getting fagged
in the game of life before the whistle is blown for
the first quarter to end.—The Emory Wheel.

is so

THE DEBATING TEAMS —

For several years the debating teams of Vanderbilt

| have occupied an unenviable position, which their suc-

cesses have done little to change. They are tolerated,
but not supported by the student body. A handful of
students has only slightly augmented the extra-campus
audiences when the debates, both local and intercol-
legiate, were held ‘on the campus itself. Not infre-
quently the judges have seemed a considerable minority
of those in attendance.

It would be litthe wonder if beth literary societies

and the debating council withered in such am atmos-

Their |

phere. It is much to their credit that they have con-
tinued at all, and an unusual distinction that they have
made appreciable progress during the interval. Last
year, indeed, Vanderbilt conducted the largest program
of debates in her history. Upwards of 75 men partici-
pated in the preliminary try-outs (there are over 1,400
enrolled in the University). Debates were held with
Tulane and ‘Texas in the Triangular League, and with
Kentucky, Tennessee, Sewanee and Alabama in’ the
Pentangular League.

More significant of this progress, however, was the
inauguration of debates with Sewanee,
Cumberland and Union in 33 of the best high and
Quoting Mr. A. W. Taylor,
debate manager of last year, we find that “in all more
than 5,000-high school boys and girls heard Vanderbilt
debaters.”

extension

prep schools in the state.

These debates proved a decidedly effective
method of introducing Vanderbilt to the high school
students of Tennessee.

While the program for the present year has not been
completed, notice has been given that the extension de-
bates will be extended to include twice the number of
last yar. This will be in addition to the regular de-
bate program with Southern colleges, and the value to
Vanderbilt will be increased proportionately.

It is hoped that by calling attention to the significant
work being done by the debating societies, some meas-

“ure of recognition by the students will be granted them.

They are certainly deserving of the courtesy of having
at least a fair student representation at the local
debates—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Over seven hundred fought under the flag—
half of them officers, and half enlisted men,

| all soldiers of their country.

| a result of the war, but to it may be traced ©

| lege Day.

Reaction from evil and cruelty is not an
instantaneous things. Since the Armistice
there have been international troubles, and
the world has been in a state of unrest as

the beginnings of peace and prosperity, and
for that reason we remember it as one of the
truly great days of history. j

To those connected with Davidson there
is a more local meaning connected with the
eleventh of November. It is Davidson Col-
For eighty-seven years David-
son has existed and prospered. There may
have been periods of retardation, but they
are past. Today Davidson stands where she
has never stood before. Her halls are crowd-
ed with students, her upright spirit and tra-
ditions still live in the heart of her every
son,

At Davidson, Armistice and Davidson Col-
fege Bay will always mean: first, a tribute
to those who fought to maintain our free-
dom, and next, a memorial tothe glorious
record which lies behind the College, and a
pledge to her future greatness,

There once was a funny old geezer .
Whose name was Tiglath-pik ser.

He was so full of bull

That his friends called him Put.

Of the Hebrews he was the squeezer.

There was an old man from Tarentum,
He had some false teeth but he bent ’em
When asked what the cost

Of what he had lost ’

He said he didn’t know for he'd rant ‘em

There once was a famous Amoeba
Who desired to get him a Sheba. +
She took all his gold

And turned him down cold.

But you ain’t alone, ole Amoeba.

Davidson College,
Davidson, N. C
Nov. 42, 1.
Mr. Chester Gump,
Australia,
Care Uncle Bim.
Dear Chester:

It seems a very long time since I have se
and it has been quite a while indeed. You
know how much I enjoy reading your letters
Sunday and just think, Chester, you are goi
come back soon and bring to all the little be
this country anything they want.

But I must tell you something about m
since you have been gone. You know when
left we were both going to the Toonerville
School. I have finished there now and Pap:
me to this place. Some of the boys call it
bird’sville but they ought not to do that bec
Woodrow Washington and George Wilson
went here. There is a Wilson boy here now '
don't believe he is any kin to George bec
George never told a lie and the other night :
mean boys turned me and my bed over it d
hurt the bed but it did hurt my knee. Theny
T go back in bed they came and poured cold vy
all over me.

Chester when you come back through Lo
don't forget to stop at Mr. W. G. Shields on
Street and get a tissue paper raincoat. 1
want it for myself but a McMillan boy told 1
T didn’t write you and tell you to get me one
he would turn me up. I don’t know, wh.
means by turning me up but he had a mean
and I am afraid of him. And, Chester, p>
bring some of the national food of Austra
T can show those cooks down at the Troug
there is something else that will do to eat b.
grits. Whatever you do, don't forget to
William B. (Billy) Rice the boy who writ
the typewriter, a new face, He needs one a
ly bad but don’t tell him T said so because
an upperclassman, :

Chester, please don’t forget these things.

Your friend,
PEE WEE McCRAV

BOARDING HOUSE BLUES
(Apologies to Nappy Davis)
I
When I sit down to the table
And I'm as hungry as can be,
And try to eat what T ain't able
To, T say—-sez I to me:
If I ever get to heaven
In the sweet old bye and bye;
In ten years or maybe seven,
T will laugh so much I'll ery.
. Chorus
I've got’ those dog-goned boarding-house
Some blues.
I eat red catsup, white beans, brown: brea
gravy,
But I have the blues so bad that I most go c
Oh, those Saturday night, Sunday
Morning, all the time blues.
; 2
For I will never have to chew
On tough mule or eat ham
Until my jaws ache through and through—
What I crave now is fresh cooked lamb.
I won’t have to eat those prunes
Nor try to swallow gobs of rice
Mornings, nights, and also noons,
No keep from going to paradise.
: 3
When I see that bow! of grits
As I flop down to my seat—
There in front of me it sits—
I swear no more of them I'll eat.
For it seems that I must eat
Whate’er I find before my plate;
Just eat, and eat, and eat, and eat,
Until I get the tummyache.
4
They call bread the staff of life
Which we poor birds must lean upon,
But I call it the cause of strife
At our joint—it is so bum.
If I can live on through this year
And still come in out of the rain,
The first of June I'll give a cheer
And fifteen rahs for “home again!”
wR
Now friend, I’m not a pessimist,
T like the place where I eat fine.
The only trouble with me is this—
T have those blues most all the time.
