6

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

| _ Literary Societies

Pandeinic

In accordance- with the plan proposed by
Professor Dendy and accepted by the literary
societies for the spring term, E. K. Regen
called for the order of the day and the reso-
lution, That the body concur in the action of
France in the occupying of the Rhur dis-
trict, was read.

P. M. Dulin, the first speaker of the even-
ing, favored the bill. J. M. Garrison, the
second speaker, opposed the bill. S. W.

SERIES OF SERVICES

(Continued from. page 1)

| to be lost, but the way in which he
| spends it.

» His closing thought was that God calls
men to every walk of life and that the

service man renders is his only true
wealth.

| Tuesday Night

| “Judes Iscariot, which also betrayed

| him,” was the subject of Doctor King’s!
| Tuesday evening sermon,
| Jesus, who knew all, and could not)
| make a mistake must have selected Judas |
{in order that he might serve as a warn-!

7
| world represent an attempt by man to!
| bridge the gulf between him and the|
Infinite.

“Since man has a soul, since that soul
is a lost soul and since there is a way to
save that soul, then is anything else in
the world worthwhile besides the im-|
mediate and sure salvation of that soul?”

In answering this question Doctor.
King said, “There is nothing eternal that
human except the soul. Since this
soul is eternal and we have only the

1s

| short time alotted’ to us here to pre-

pare for its state for all cternity we can
readily realize that its salvation is of
supreme importance. If for no other

Moore then spoke in favor of the bill. D.| ing to all the world of what sin can do| Treason we should realize its importance

B. Walthall made the last speech of the
evening, speaking for the bill.

to a man. For three years Judas lived)

in intimate companionship with the Son

from the price paid for its salvation.
God came down and lived among men,

G. M. Ford moved that the resolution be| of God. It was this same companionship | finally died the most shameful of earth-

adopted by the house. A vote was taken and
the motion was carried by an 18-2 decision.

The bill for the next mecting was pro-
posed by Slaymaker and seconded by Regen.
The meeting was then adjourned.

Philanthropic

At the last meeting of the Philanthropic
Literary Society the regular program was
dispensed with in order that the members
might be able to attend the evening sermon
of Dr. Bob King, at Shearer Hall. How-
ever, R. H. Brown delivered an oration on
Denby’s Resignation and R. H. Smith gave
one on Honor, These required only a few
minutes land the society then adjourned.

The Open Forum Plan as adopted by the
societies has not yet gone into effect in the
Philanthropic. They will try it for the first
time at the beginning of the next society
term,

Metrophilian

On account of the revival meeting by Doc-
tor King the Metrophilian Literary Society
held a very brief session. The devotional
was led by A. M. McBryde. The query for
debate was Resolved, That Secretary Denby
should resign his position as Secretary of the
Navy as proposed by the Senate. The
affirmative was upheld by J. H. Caligan, and
the negative was represented by Fraley. The
decision was in favor of the negative. M.
W. Trawick gave an oration on the recent
article To the Student Body.

HENRY OLDYS TELLS OF
FRANCE

(Continued from page 1)

Les Miserables has its setting amid the
confused conditions which existed fol-
lowing the French Revolution and the
Napoleanic War. Jean le Jean, the prin-
cipal character, is convicted of the theft |
of a loaf of bread and sentenced to serve |
a term of 19 years in the prison of
Paris. The bread had been taken to
ward off starvation.

Embittered by his long period of un-
just imprisonment, John becomes a con-
firmed criminal upon his release. His
life is changed, however, through the
kind treatment of an old bishop. The}
ex-convict discovers the secret of making |

a kind of imitation jewelry and reaps a|

fortune from .it. He is later elected
mayor of his town. f°

| that made the “Beloved Disciple” of one
lof the “Sons of Thunder;” it was this
|same companionship that made out of
| Simon, the rough Gallilean fisherman,
Peter, the foundation on which God |
built His church. But it was in this same
{companionship that Judas worked
his eternal damnation.

Dr. King closed by asking, “What is
{the pet sin to which you are holding?
|Christ died to remove your sins; by
clinging to one sin you make His death
of no avail and sell Him again as surely
as did Judas. There are but two ways;
the way of Jesus which leads to salvation
and the way of Judas° which leads to
suicide, to self-damnation, which will
you take?”

out

Wednesday Morning
In the chapel service Wednesday morn- |
ing Doctor King spoke on the Universal
Brotherhood of Christians in Christ, tak-
ing as his scripture reading the oth to
14th verses of Matthew, the Lord’s
prayer. '
He opened his talk by saying that a
Christian has the most wonderful priv-
ileges in the world. The greatest is that
of having the right to call God, “Father.”
By simple acceptance of Christ, the son,
as our Elder Brother, we are at once}
adopted into the family of God and have
a right to his fatherly love and protec-
tion.
He then gave an illustration of a/|
young immigrant seeking admission to)
this country. He was an ideal immigrant |
but there was one thing lacking. He |
did not have the amount of money that |
the immigration laws require that an}
immigrant have before he be admitted)
to this country. He turned around to a6
back to his ship when a man, his broth-|

}er, who had been living in America some |

years, ran up to the immigration officer
and said “I’ll give him the money neces- |
sary.” All the requirements were met |
and the young man was admitted to his!
chosen land. But he was admitted by |
that which was given him by his broth- |
er. Dr. King then pointed out that it is |
just so with man. No sinner can enter}
Heaven, but Christ, our Elder Brother, |
if we accept Him, has, by His death, re-
moved our sins and made us fit to en-

| Christ’s greatest enemy, were called in,

| the speaker brought home to his hearers

ly deaths that man’s soul might not be)
lost. Can we treat lightly and as of,
small moment that which must have
taxed even the omnipotence of the Omni-
potent, the salvation of our soul?”

Thursday Morning

What think ye of Christ? was the text |
used by Doctor King Thursday morning. |
The sermon was in the form of a trial
in which witnesses, both from the num-
bers of Christ's enemies and His friends
were called to the stand. |
Christ, as the accused, occupied bt
prisoner’s box, and the witnesses were
summoned into court. First the enemies
of Christ were called in to give their
testimony. But not one of them said
they found any guilt in Him. Caiaphas,
who proposed the death of Christ, said,
“It is expedient for us that one man
should die for the whole people, that the
whole nation perish not,” thus showing
that Christ must die, the innocent for
the sins of the world. The men who ar-
rested Jesus, the Centurion whose sol-
diers pierced Jesus’ side as He hung on
the cross, Pontius Pilate, before whom
Jesus was tried, Judas Iscariot who be-
trayed Christ, and the Devil himself,

|
|

but none could give any reason why
Christ was worthy of death on His own
behalf.

Then the friends of Christ, Peter,
James, John the beloved disciple, and
Paul were called in, They gave testi-
mony for Christ, not only with words
but by lives in His service. ;By every
witness, either gmong friend or foe,
Jesus was vindicated of any wrong-do-
ing under the law.

“Will you accept Him, will you take
that Great and Innocent One from the
Cross where He died for you, or will you
leave Him there, where He may be the}
subject of reprodch by men? What}
think ye of Christ?” |

Thursday Evening |

Using as his Scripture for the evening

the words of Christ, There is no difference

the fact that all out of Christ are lost,
and that none of their morality is able
to save them.

“God can see things in you that neither
you nor any qther man can discern. I

|cannot tell you what is in you, but He

can. I cannot commission you to go out
and preach the Gospel for Him; but God
who sees you can. What does He see in
you? Does He see a doctor, a lawyer, a
minister of the Gospel? God sees the
truth. ‘He saw a man.”

Friday Evening

The final service of the Life Work
Campaign was held Friday evening,
when approximately four hundred stu-
dents heard Doctor King im Shearer
Hall. His theme for the evening was
Fitting Into God’s Plan.

“God has a great structure in the
world, and He has a place in it for every
brick, for every piece of clay. He look-
ed down into the twentieth century and
said. ‘I will need some lawyers to uphold

| justice in the land, I will need some doc-

tors to minister to the bodies of men,

,I will need some farmers to till the soil,
‘and I will need ministers to carry My

word to those in darkness.

The speaker reiterated his statement
that he could not tell a man what his
life-work was to be, but urged that

God he allowed to direct the destines, |
“Let God!

the life work, of each one.
tell you what He has for you in His
plan, and then have the determination to
carry out God’s will. Success in life is
finding God’s will for your life, and car-
rying out His will.”

Doctor King called on the members of |

the Columbia quartette, Messrs. McInnis,
Piehopff, Dendy, and Ellis, and Mr.
Buhler, the leader of the song service,
to tell of the pay they had received in
determining their life’s work along the
lines Christ had revealed to them as His
plan. Following this
ice, Doctor King asked for those who
would give their lives to His direction
and accept His plan for them. The en-
tire audience came forward, presenting
a fitting climax to the series of meetings.

“Y” SECURES NOTED MEN

(Continued from page 1)
upper classes. He visited Davidson both
year before last and last year. He de-
livered the baccalaureate sermon at
Commencement last spring. Dr. Vander
Meulen is always welcomed to Davidson.

Rey. Franklin McCoy is from Cross-
nore, N. C. He has been offered a large
sum for lecutring and impersonation
work, but he refused it to stay at Cross-
nore. He is just now returning from a
northern trip and the “Y” is fortunate
in securing him as he is passing through
Davidson,

Among the other speakers who have
been invited are Bascomb Sorrels, pres-
ident of the class of 1923, and Rev. W. C.
McLaughlin, missionary to China, who
visited here a few weeks ago.

A special service for Easter Sunday is
being planned.

impressive serv-|

SHOWING AT
DAVIDSON
MONDAY, MARCH 17th

TLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT

DEBONAIR, comfortable,
tailored wit aber that in-

DINNER SUIT
(Shawl collar or notch)

$39.50

d and sold ly by
NATLUXENBERG&Bros.

New address

N. W. Cor. 13th St.
New York City

Manufs Nea ef

841 Broadwa:

Stuyvesant 9898

Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent
free on request.

CENTRAL

and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

HAT SHOP

| “One sin, persisted in, can keep you out
|

ter. |of Heaven as well as the commission of

. 7 . My .
A police officer from Paris makes his

way to the town where John is residing
in peace and forces -him to flee. John
rescues the small orphan daughter of a
friend and goes again to Paris, taking
with him the 600,000 francs that he had
—~carned.

The remainder of the story deals with
the numerous escapes of John and his
daughter from Javairre, the police officer
who places duty above everything else
in life. The girl finally marries a young
army officer and John, dying a natural
death, is buried in.a cemetery
Paris. :

A very entertaining feature of the

. evening was the talk which Mr. Oldys
made in explanation of the lantern
slides that were shown by P. D. Price.
These pictures portrayed a number of
the scenes of the novel as well as several
of the home and neighborhood wherein
Hugo wrote the book.

Mr. Oldys paused between his relation
of the first and second parts of Les
Miserables to offer an account of the
history of the Paris of Hugo’s day. At
this time a picture of the grave of La-
fayette, with the wreath on it placed
there by Mr. Wilson on his visit to
France, was shown. A very fine eulogy
was. given the war president by Mr.
Oldy’s.

The lecturer proved himself an ex-
cellent narrator. Although he did not
have sufficient time to enlarge upon the
plot he rendered a profitable evening’s
entertainment for his audience. ~

near

Judge and Mrs. Charles Dice: 6f Lewis-
burg, W. Va., who are on their way home
from a visit to St. Petersburg, Fla., spent
Tesday of last. week-in--Dayidaon:as-the
guests of Mrs. Olin White.

|

Another great privilege of the Chris-|

tian, Dr. King pointed out, was that of |
having ready access to the father to ask
Him for what we need.. And if we fall |
in sin we have the blessed privilege of |
making Christ, the Son, our intercessor |
before the Throne. |
f Wednesday Night

. Wednesday evening Dr. King spoke on
The Soul’s Salvation. He took as his text |
Mark 8:36, “For what shall it profit a/|
man if he shall gain the whole world and |
lose his own soul?” |

His talk opened with the following
proposition: “If a man has a soul, if that |
soul is a lost soul, and if there is a way
to save that lost soul, then there is

except the salvation of that soul.”
tion, Doctor King proved, first from the

tures, that man has a soul. There are
no people in the world today, no- matter
how ignorant or savage that do not be-
lieve-in the soul, and in the continuance
of life after death.

“Is man’s soul a lost soul?” Ever since
Adam sought to hide himself in the gar-
den the sense of sin has been inherent
in the nature of man: We have all sin-
ned, and since God has said that he
who sinneth shall surely die, man’s soul
is irrevocably lost unless some way has
been provided for that soul’s salvation.

“Is there a way?” Ever since the be-
ginning of his existence man has been
asking this and has tried every way to
find a satisfactory answer to this burn-
ing question. If one wishes to see how
Satisfactory these attempts have been
let-him look-at the many-religions of the
world. All of the many religions of the

| sin,

nothing else in the world worth while |
Taking the first part of the proposi-.

world about and then from the Scrip- |

all the sins of the world. This does not
mean that man must live a sinless life.
No man but One ever did that. But it
does mean that man must renounce all
his sins, and not all but one, and must
accept Christ. |

“Rejection of Christ is the greatest |
Every day you hold back from Him |
you are committing a crime worse than |
stealth, for you are holding back what |
Christ has bought with His blood. You!
are committing a crime worse than mur- |
der, for your rejection, your life with- |

‘out Christ, is daily influencing others. |

You may come to Him later, but what |

about the others who may be lost for- |

ever through your influence on their |

lives? Their blood will be on your)

jhands.” “Will you longer reject Him?” |
Friday Morning

Matthew 9:9 He Saw a Man, was the |
subject treated in the Friday morning |
| exercises. These words were from the.call |
j of Matthew to be one of Christ’s im-

mediate followers, and were taken to
bring to the minds of the hearers what
| Christ might see in each of them.
| “Matthew was.a Publican, a cheater,
swindler, and hardened sinner. Man’
looking upon him, saw nothing good, but |
God looked into him and saw a man, |
and called him who called many to re-|
pentance.

“A Jew killed an Egyptian and buried
him in the sand. He was a fugitive from
justice. But God found Moses and,made
him the deliverer of His people from
bondage.”

Similar cases in which God called
David and Saul from lives of sin and
made them the man after God’s own
heart and-the great missionary to the
Gentiles, were cited.

|
,

You won’t fumble this cap!

Professional jugglers could handle the old-
style shaving cream caps and never once drop
one down the drain or under the bath tub.
But for most of us, this new Williams Hinge-
Cap puts an end to an ancient nuisance.

Williams Shaving Cream is just as much
pleasanter to use as is the Hinge-Cap. It
softens the beard with uncanny ’speed. The
thicker lather holds the moisture in against
the skin where it is needed. This lather lu-
bricates the skin, too, so that painful razor
friction is eliminated. And when your shave
is done, that famous ingredient in Williams
which helps the skin, leaves your face cool,
soothed and refreshed. No coloring matter
is used in Williams — it is a pure, natural-
white shaving cream.

illiams |
Shaving Cream

