4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
sociation
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of: Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class 3

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents, per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.
KENNETH S. McALPIN.---.-.---Busi

Editor
Editor

Editor
Editor

-----Associate
-Associate
Associate

~-Alumni

Editor
Editor
Editor

ramm=>n<o

EDITORIAL

J. S. McNAIR

Death, the grim reaper, moyes on relent-
lessly taking his toll from every class and
age and leaving in his wake mourners weep-
ing for their loved ones who will never re-
turn, Each of us has the realization that
we must someday face Death—and yet to
you Death seems but a vision which passes
it by and faces only those who have finish-
ed their allotted term of “threescore years
and ten.”

But Death is no respector of persons, and

Editor |

Editor |

}; Circulation Manager
» C. McSWAIN.-. -Subscription Manager
Cc. R. HUNTER... .--.------ Bookkeeper
My bet GARRISON... ---Service Manager |
APH DY NGHesss2ce esse Typist
' REPORTERS’ CLUB
1. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. i E. MOORE
i M. APPLEBY =. P. O'CONNOR
1. M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. : B..Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON EF. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH 1: B. THOMPSON
P. F, JONE: .. D. ‘(WHARTON
W. H. LY W. S. WOODS

HOMECOMING DAY

November 15 will be a great day in David-
son history. That afternoon Carolina plays
on Richardson field, the first time the Tar
Heels have ever played on Davidson ground.
But more than that it will be Homecoming
Day, a day when all loyal alumni want to turn
their steps toward the old campus and get
back on “the hill” once more.

The college has changed. Every place
changes. But Davidson is still Davidson, the
place where each of her sons spent some of
the happiest days of his life. New dormi-
tories have been built, new customs have
been instituted, new faces appear on the
campus each year, but the traditions of

Wildcat spirit and Davidson honor still re-

main as the most priceless possession of us,
her students.

Memories of scenes and incidents may
fade and die out but the spirit still calls her
sons back, irresistibly, and they flock back
once more, still jealous of her traditions and
praying that old Davidson may never lower
her high standards of honor.

Always it is the same. Rumors of the

|.
|

| the suspicion.

| , . .
tractor, and there’s hay-seed in your hair.

Chaff

UNPOPULAR SONGS

Timidly I knocked on the portal of the Jazzum Song
Company, with a clenched fist. In my well-worn
carpet-bag I carried manuscripts for several song hits
which I desired to see in print and to hear on tongue,
and for this reason I awaited on the uotside: A gruff
voice told me to come in and I opened the door to mect
a starry-eyed stenographer who, told me that her boss
was in his sanctum. I skipped in.

Briefly, I proposed to the song baron my plans for
jazzing my way to fame and fortune; briefly he shot
back: “You're from the sticks,” he said. I told him
I was proud of it, and asked him why he divulged
“Why, it’s simple,” he “your
hand is horny where you've been cranking the family
But that
ain't there or here, read out your first song and we'll
sce how she goes.”

Thus, I read out my first composition entitled
Dreaming. I struck my most dignified position and

said,

| with a dreamy, romantic voice warbled it:

disrupting of Davidson traditions seep out; |

stories that things are not what they used to
be are circulated; the alumnus is given a

vague uneasy feeling that there is something |

lacking in the new Davidson College. Then
he returns and sees the same high ideals,
the same friendly camaraderie between the
men on the campus.

Come back alumni, and see the changes
which have taken place, the improvements
which have been made. Learn to
Davidson once more. And however far you
may have to travel, and however it may in-
convenience you, you will feel repaid when

' you see the fighting Wildcats take the field

and stand with bared head as you sing,

Down Carolina

As through their line we run
Win for the honor

Of old Davidson.

THE LAST FOUR

With the season of 1924 more than half

| gone, the Wildcats face their hardest test in

the last four games on the schedule. Three

' of these four contests have a direct bearing

youth as well as age falls before his inevit- |

able scythe.
is cut short. The death of J. S. McNair is
one of those inexplicable visitations of God’s
hand which has brought grief to the entire
student body.

After a short illness of ten days, Jack
quietly passed away, leaving behind a place
in the hearts of his friends which can never
be filled. For over two years he had lived
on the campus, a friend to all with whom he
came in contact ;.a student who realized to
the fullest extent the value of the college
course and who made the highest use of all
his oppottunities ; an example of right liv-
ing and unassuming worth.’

His death came as a shock to the entire
student body. Their sympathy goes out to
his family in their bereavement. Jack is
gone, but his influence remains and his mem-
ory will be held dear on the campus.

THE FINAL RESULTS

HIE Life Work Conference led by Dr.
Talliaferro Thompson, of the Union
Theological Seminary at Richmond,
has just closed. His words have made an
impression on our souls—there is no ques-

Where it is least expected life |

tion about that. He is a wonderful speaker |

with a profound knowledge of psychology

and philosophy and an unswervi elief in | * ; eats
pice Bee an unswerving belief in | is definitely eliminated as a contender, hav-

the teachings of Jesus Christ.

Tous, during the meetings just past, he has |

talked with a knowledge of the problems
which confront college men. He has talked
sympathetically, for he was once a student
here, and his words have not been wasted.

The question which arises is, “Will the
effects of the conference be lasting?” If
not, then what good will the meetings ac-
complish? There is but one way to make a
success out of life—to face all problems
squarely and decide for the right. That is

the thought which has been brought out in | Goschuntankiallaths wav

the services. If, after listening to these
words, we are unwilling to face the facts
squarely and act according to our convic-
tions as to what we ought to do, the meet-
ings have failed in their purpose for us.

_Will the meetings have a lasting effect
on us?

|

on the state championship race, and the re-

maining contest is with the Clemson Tigers,
one of the strongest South Carolina teams.

The Wildcat string of victories was broken
by the Purple Hurricane at the South Caro-
lina State Fair last week. .Five wins in a
row is the best the Red and Black machine
has done in many a year. Now that the line
of successive victories has been cut short,
the team can turn its attention wholly to
the game before it without the strain of
having a perfect record to uphold.

The loss of the Furman game has not iow-
ered the morale of the team or of the stu-
dent body.
was a blocked punt in the early minutes of
play. After the two teams battled on even
terms throughout the game, with Wildcats
having a little the best of the argument in
ground gained.

At the present writing Wake Forest and
Davidson are the only two Carolina teams
undefeated with the state. Each has lost
one game to an out of state team but Wake
Forest has the advantage in that they have
one. major state victory over Carolina to
their credit.. Davidson has yet to play a
major state team, and the outcome of the

know |

When I sit by the firelight at evening,
With my pipe sending wreathes in the air,
A fair vision floats ever before me,
And I long for my sweetheart so fair.
Yet, I know there's no use of pining,
When her love notes I read as of yore;
And a voice tells she’s somewhere declining
Another as she did me before.

The head of the Jazzum Company groaned audibly,
but I continued.
: Cuorus:

In the heart of a long evening hour
I dream of her once more again,
But to think, I'd stoop to drink
If she'd ever cause me any pain—

“Stop, right there,” said the boss, “that ditty is en-

| tirely too melodramatic, and too high flown for the

| thing with a snap and rattle to it.

After all, the deciding factor |

games with State, Carolina, and Trinity will |

make or break the Wildcat in the champion- |

ship race.

The Demon Deacons meet the same three
teams so an accurate line on the strength of
the two elevens can be obtained. Although
Davidson and Wake Forest are the only

| undefeated state teams the others cannot

| be definitely considered out of the running. : : ;
y § | sexes, big and little, something red-hot you know,

Zach of the other three major teams plays
all four of the Big Five in the state. Trinity

ing lost to State and Carolina, but she may
knock either Wake Forest or Davidson out
of the running. State has-one victory and
one loss with Davidson, and Wake Forest
to meet in the near future. Carolina has

| one loss and two wins with only the David-

son game remaining among her intra-state

|-contests.

State, Carolina, and Trinity—and the odds

| are against Davidson’s light weights in

every game. Every man in the student body
is behind the team to the limit, backing
The game with
State tomorrow will be a test of the old
Wildcat spirit—and whatever the outcome
the Younger machine will be in the game
from whistle to whistle. If we give the
team the backing it deserves, it will do the
rest and “win for the honor of old David-
son,”
|

sentiments of our people. What they want is some-
Now what else
have ya’ got?”

“Well,” says I, “this here ballad which I will now
proceed to bawl out. is designed to catch the elusive
public fancy. Not much sense to it, but that's all
right. A jazzy tune will start this ball a-rolling right
now. The shicks and tea-hounds ought to take to it
good, as it sounds grand, done to a sexaphone accom-
paniment. Here she flies :”

Nothing could be finer, than to be a diamond miner

And to have a lot of jewelry at your call.

Just to dig a ton or two, of diamonds big and blue,

And perhaps a pile of gold, and that ain't all,

Then to strut up the street, handing all you mect

Al stony stare that makes them all repeat,

A diamond's just a stone after all,

“Yes,” said Jazzum, “a diamond's a stone they all
are after. But they ain't enough pep in that hokum.
Ain’t you got a little Mammy stuff? You know, the
kind that tells about your Mammy down in Alabammy
and that kind of stuff. It always makes a hit with
the Southerners, you know, then, the sentiments are
pretty good, too, What ya’ got in that line?”

I assumed a pose suggestive of a romantic lover and
of a billy--goat be-whiskered Southern Colonel and
spat out the following with a war-like demeanor.
“This ought to make a salty cracker shed tears,”
said I,

Down where the bees are bussing, .

Down where the moon shines low,

Down where I've got so many cousins,
That's where I love to go.
For I'm getting mighty hungry

For an old-fashioned feed.

And in my dreams I see my sweetheart mammy,

That's all my poor heart needs.

Cuorus:
Way—way down in Alabammy,
Kindly let me be.
T see my sweetheart Mammy,
Underneath the apple tree,
And I don't crave to do no reaming,

All T wanna do is rest.

You can talk about your flappers and Shebas,

But I like Mammy the best.

“Them’s fine words,” said Jazzum, “but they ain't
no, pep much; too much sentiment is all right in its
place, but we want something that'll appeal to both

something they can all dance by, grandpa and little
sister.”

“How's this?” I said:

Her lips tell me yes—yes, and her eyes say no-no-no,
Now how can I tell which one lies, is what I'd like to
know.

“Stop, stop!" he shouted, “no goo-goo-googly eyes,
for me.”

So I started off again with my worse one, as I
thought. It was written in desperation, on the chorus :
Super-heated mamma, ice-cold papa.

And that's just what I mean;

Don’t tell me that it ain't proper,

And soak it right down in your bean.

I get the rass if I jass on my saxaphone.

But sweetie Mamma likes to hear me moan,
So lickety split and a coupla cheers,

Tf I cawt get Scotch, I take near-beer.
Super-heated Mamma, don’t you try to par-boil me.

‘Old Jazzum was weii-nigh breathless as 1 read it,
so I continued : 3
You can talk about your music of a jassy kind,

But your sweet papa, he ain't blind.

|

He may be spoony, but he’s noot loony,

And let me tell ypu, he’s as_cold as can be.

“Let me have that for five hundred dollars, will
you?” He was terribly anxious, so just for accom-
modation’s sake, I sold it to him. C.F. S.

With the College Editors

TOO MUCH CAKE

In an address which has been published in pam-
phlet form by the Columbia University Christian
Association, Dean Hawkes wields a penetrating
scalpel over the younger generation. Departing
from the approved manner of our elders who utter:
scathing pooh poohs and raise their hands to the
shuddering heavens whenever the behavior of
their posterity is mentioned, the Dean in a spirit
of kindliness and quiet sincerity seeks to de-
termine our essential. Where others have with
compressed nostrils, sought to wean us from
our flesh pots, the Dean expresses confidence in
us and regards us with sympathetic understand-
ing.

The characteristic of the day is to the mind of
Dean Hawkes an emphasis on individuality and
a corresponding tendency to break with tradition
in every way. This individuality is achieved at
the expense of unity, form and order. To the
utter neglect of the whole, the effort of the day
bends itself to the cultivation of the part, and a
vast lack of coordination is the result. ‘his state
of affairs is most conspicuous in the modern arts.
“Much of our modern music does not pretend to
get anywhere. One sound follows another and
the entire succession is intended only to express
in a charming manner the phantasy of the com-
poser.”

The student of today is lost in this mazy tangle
of “uncoordinated motions and restless activities.”
No guiding purpose rules, and he wanders as the
winds list or, as Aldous Huxley expresses it he is
wafted swooning over “billows of molasses” he
knows not whither. So much for the Dean’s
analysis; but certain conclusions relating to
Columbia may be drawn therefrom.

This chaotic attitude towards things and this
affection for the dismembered rather than the
coherent is quite apparent, we take it, in the
capriciousness which regulates the choice of
studies in the college. Without definite object in
view, the candidates for the bachelor’s degree
demonstrate a pronounced partiality for the
eclectic. A conglomeration of unrelated courses
is the rule, and the result is a weird smattering
which calls to mind the ingredients of the witches’
cauldron. But without an end in view, the broth
just misses the admired thick and slab consist-
ency. One graduates with a rudimentary ac-
quaintance with many things and a thorough
knowledge of nothing in particular. The result
is, of course, acute indigestion.

Our mania, for ramification has a sorry @ppor-
tunity to follow its primrose path of dalliance in
Columbia. The curriculum of the college admits
freely of this random activity. Instead of a solid
basis of required work and advanced specializa-
tion, the student is free to fulfill the impulse of
the younger generation after his first year. There
is much cake and an absence of bread and butter
in the curriculum, The younger generation ap-
pears incompetent to pick the bread from the
bewildering banquet offered. The remedy seems
to lie in a return to the old in education which
provided {a thorough grounding in the classics
and basis studies and later a vigorous specializa-
tion. It is only then that one is in a position to
choose the cake——Columbia. Spectator.

CAMPUS OPINION CONDEMNS
DRINKING

At the last meeting of the Alumni Association
of the University of Florida, resolutions were
passed approving President Murphree’s stand on
the eighteenth amendment and condemning the
use of alcoholic drinks by the student body. In
accordance with this resolution notice was served
in the university catalog “that the drinking of
alcoholic beverages by students is prohibited and
that those unwilling to comply should attend
some other institution.” Nothwithstanding this
excessively broad hint, there are a few—a very
few—who have chosen to ignore it and, seeming-
ly, are attempting to ride rough-shod over the
rules and regulations of our institution.

Such men are rapidly making their presence ob-

noxious and their room desirable. The school
authorities have decreed that all drinking of al-
coholic beverages at the U. of F. shall stop, and
they have behind them the powerful force of
campus opinion and the active co-operation of the
Florida Alumni.
‘Especially noteworthy, is the stand taken by
the fraternities. Nearly every one of them has
outlawed drinking; some of them have not stop-
ped with dismissing the violators from member-
ship, but have proceeded to report them to uni-
versity authorities. It is a praiseworthy stand,
and one that will go far towards arresting public
opposition to fraternal organizations.

In late years, much hostility has developed
against college fraternities, due chiefly to an
erroneous belief that they condone violations of
the eighteenth amendment. The positive uncom-
promising attitude which fraternities at Florida
have taken, should go far towards re-establishing
them in the confidence of the citizens of our
State—Florida Alligator.
