4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

Tie Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.-—...---.-----Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN....--.---Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Mics MUM ssnessauscacdescesusaessescaseaet Managing
he TONS cc cccccccesesecs, Assistant Managing
RiGMONRouuiiesoscesccanencces Assistant Managing
Peanut Parcher
i j

Editor
Editor
Editor

Seaseauseeuee Associate Editor
Corcepmrerrrstrererrrtrvag saris: Associate Editor
Seaususiscaccasssscrcasudecusecouee Alumni Editor

L.

Business Staff
Se igis | Circulation Manager

T. C. McSWAIN --Subscription Manager
GeRMHUN DBRS -cserstrsscctel ec eee seenueestee Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON..-.........-.-- ----Service Manager
Wee Hie DY NCHS. cc ciessecccecscoeccess

M. GARRISON

P, GLADNEY
HOLLINGSWORTH

ONES

H.
NETT McMILLAN
MOORE

. MURCHISON

". P, O'CONNOR

NG B. PARKER

». K. REG
J. B. THOMPSON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

With the 1920 football season a matter of
history, the next thing on the schedule is
the Christmas holidays. Here’s hoping
Davidson men will score as many points
during the ten days as the football team
scored this In some respects,
though, its lots harder to come out on. top
in the holiday game,

CL. AW
W. H. BRANCH ¢
V. S. BROYLES J.
¢
I

D. M. CALHOUN

season,

D
The Davidson debaters meet stiff opposi-
tion in Atlanta this week when they meet
the strong trio from Emory University, Hol-
lingsworth has already been on one winning
Davidson team, and hopes to make it two
straight in the town which his name made
famous. Wharton has also represented Da-
vidson before and Williams was a member
of the Freshman team which beat Carolina
last spring. A Senior, a Junior, anda Sopho-

more make up the trio.

D

Davidson will be represented in Georgia |

in another way next week when the Glee
Club makes its annual fall Southern tour.
The Glee Club this year will have to travel
to beat the record of last year’s club which
sang before more than twenty-five thou-
sand people. The club lost many good
musicians, but the vocal end has been re-
inforced by new material, and if anything
is a little better than last year, ae

The 1925 Quips and Cranks is sailing along
under full steam again, despite the iceberg
in the form of over half a thousand dollars
deficit left by last year’s business manage-
ment, which almost put it out of commis-
sion at the start of her journey. The hole
in her hull has been patched up by Lake and
Milhous, and a better than the ordinary an-
nuat should be the result. The staff is to
be commended on the way they met the
emergency which faced them.

Da

After the Davidson-Emory debate, the
Junior-Senior debate between the represen-
tatives of the four literary societies is the
next literary event of. importance. Next
Wednesday the Pandeinics meet the Metro-
philians, and the Eumaneans and Philan-
thropics lock horns. The’ winners of these
two debates will meet in finals the follow-
ing week.

da addition ta thie, the preliminaries of the
Senior Oratorical Contest will be held on

the, sixteenth. Business is picking up bef
the holidays. oo

Editor |
Editor |

~| WILDCAT GLEE CLUB TO TOUR DIXIE

. 9

e
a

Twenty-six versatile young musicians, who compose the popular chorus of the Glee Club this year. They will be
heard for the first time by students on next Tuesday evening, when they appear in Shearer Hall previous to their’ de-
parture on their annual southern tour through the Carolinas and Georgia. The club has played in Lenoir, Mooresville,
and Statesville already this year; and indications are that the youthful singers are in for a successful Season.

The Varsity and Freshman squads are
busy limbering up for the indoor pastime of
basketball. Beall, Boggs, Laird, McConnell,
and Staley of last year’s quint are back in
harness and prospects look bright. Oeland
has made out a comprehensive schedule for
Captain Bogg’s Wildcat five, which includes

| a Virginia trip, a game with Georgia Tech

| ed on first and second picks.

und games with the leading state elevens.
Coach Younger has the nucleus for another
fighting Wildcat quint, and if any one can
make a team out of them, he can.

D

The entire student body joins with Miss
Orrie Steele in her bereavement at the death
of her sister, Miss Mamie Steele, who died
at her home in Red Springs, last week. Miss

Steele was known to many here, who loved

her for her long and untiring work in be-
half-of Flora Macdonald College. She was

greatly beloved there, and her presence will

be missed by those who have known her,
and felt her influence.
D.
GOODBYE, FOOTBALL
HE curtain has been rung down on
another season of football. The grid
togs have been packed away until
they will be dragged out again in the spring
{or early practice. Our minds turn to other
things, but the memory of this season as
the year that the Wildcats came back, will
be long remembered.

To no one thing can the successful season
be attributed as to the absolute harmony
which existed-between coaches and players,
a harmony of*teamwork which molded the
Davidson eleven into a Red and Black ma-
chine. In the words of Floyd Simmons, for-
mer Davidson coach, “ ‘the little red electric’
came back.”

In the selection of mythical All-State
elevens, there is one Davidson man, who be-
cause of his indomitable courage, his fight-
ing qualities, his gameness, and his unstop-
able aggressiveness, has been mentioned on
practically every selection. To Tom Baker,
the lightest tackle in the state, goes tne
honor of being the gamest fighter. In him
the fighting Wildcat qualities find their
highest form of expression. He is in the
words. of Simmons, “a red-headed, fire-eat-
ing, wildcat.”

The Wildcats have the lightest line in the
state by many pounds, but two members of
the thin Red line have been mentioned most
prominently for All-State honors. Baker is
one of the two; the other is Harry Vance.
Vance has the uncanny knack of breaking
through the line at psychological moments
and throwing the runner for a loss. He 1s
one of the steadiest players in the game, and
tor sheer plugging away, has no equal.

Hendrix, Sappenfield, Davis, Black and
McConnell are others prominently mention-
Hendrix is
one of the best broken-field runners in the
state; Sappenfield has few equals as a field
general; Davis ranks high among the ends;
Black is one of the most dependable full-
backs who ever bucked a line; McConnell is
the most accurate passing center in the
state. |

But after all, the team-work brought the
results, and to the fighting Red and Black
machine of 1924 goes the honor of putting
Davidson back on the map in Carolina foot-
hall circles.

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

DO DAVIDSON STUDENTS PLAY FAIR?

The above question could be changed to: Will

men return good for. good? This has been a
question much debated and answered by some in
the affirmative. Personally I have found most
men to respond in a fair way if treated squarely.
If somebody seems to be doing wrong, test your
own self and see if something is not wrong with
Get the plank

out of your own eye and then you can see how

you instead of the other pers®n.

to get the speck out of somebody else’s eye.
I think they
Indeed,

But are Davidson students fair?
are the fairest group of men anywhere.
they go further than being fair, by contending
with practically worthless things which other stu-
dent bodies would not tolerate for a minute. We
talk with
meetings they are cither compelled to attend or

about the disfavor among students

else go to of their own free will and harshly

criticize the poor students. Let us look at our-

selves and see if there is not something wrong
with us. It takes real Stoicism to sit through some
of our meetings! Are we really giving men some-
thing when they come to the meetings, or are
simply words thrown out from the mouth of an
inefficient speaker, disgusting the hearer with
things he once held sacred? The students have
been criticized for their lack of courtesy and
justly, but are they wholly to blame? Can we
justly and wholly condemn men for complaining
about having to go to certain meetings or fail-
ing to go to those they are not compelled to
attend? Let us just try once and see if men
won’t respond when given real solutions to their
needs instead of wornout dogmas and over-used
phrases lacking in meaning.

The poor students are criticized for going to
Charlotte or some other place and “raising cain.”
Someone will get up and exhort us just before
the Christmas holidays to be real Davidson men
while we are away. Has Davidson such a low
ideal that men are not always the same under all
conditions? What else can be expected when
they have to sit around with folded hands or else
content themselves with reading? Cannot some
sensible, clean entertainment be allowed that will
counteract the numerous “petting parties” so pre-
valent on the campus?

How about the heads of the organizations
working on thesmelves a little and then see how
the members of the student body come around.
T will prophesy packed houses. According to the
“Chesterfield” ad such popularity must be de-
served! Of course there are some men that
would not come to meetings if dollar bills were
served for refreshments; they are so nearsighted.
Anyway, please give us a chance to show you
what we will do.

T. C. BARR.

ANNOUNCEMENT
For the best letter on “How to Get a Head” in
college, this magazine will pay the princely sum
of three bales of Russian rubles, or 37 cents.
Only bona-fide students are permitted to/ enter
this great contest. The judges will be Stanislaus
Zybezscno, Jack Dempsy, and Eddie Polo.

Do your Christmas Shopping Early.

The American Magazine
HOW GREAT MEN GET AHEAD

P, Aloystus McGlook was» born back in the far
hills of Georgia where the light of progress never
shines. Even as a lad he displayed many of the
characteristics which were to distinguish his
later life. The marks of success were branded
upon him early in life. Most of the marks were
around his neck and cars where the noble wash-
rag shirks its duty.

McGlook was country-bred at heart, but he
yearned for the tinsel and the bright lights of the
Big City. He lived so far back that he thought

Eddie Polo was a game and that face paint was
used by aged spinsters. His section of the coun-
try has always been a little slow; they arrested a
man down there just a few weeks back on the
charge of being a Yankee spy. But-be that as it
nray, P, Aloystus was astute and high-minded.
He hada right to be as his illustrious father,
Caleb Otey McGlook, who had held the office of
deputy constable for two terms, was so high-
minded that he used headache pills to cure his
corns.

P. Aloystus was somewhat disappointed that
Mr. Hylan did not come down to meet him when
he reached New Amsterdam. He had always
heard that the people up there were so friendly,
too, But right away he looked for a gold brick
to buy or something by which he could make a
big haul and retire to the sticks, a rich and opu-
lent plutocrat. His first venture was in the oil
business. He tried the customary lines of cylind-
er, olive, castor, hair, and cod-liver oil, but his
fingers became slippery in the attempt and he lost
the few piasters that he otherwise might have
accumulated.

But such a dauntless and persevering character
as Mr. McGlook was not to be foundered by such
trifles. He took a maik order course on astron-
omy and found a vaudeville star, who overlook-
ing his homely freckled map and his snaggled
molar organs, married him for love and love
alone. She found little else. The staunch and
faithful personality of Aloystus had not the moral
courage to divorce his wife, so she divorced him
by their mutual consent.

He dabbled in stocks and bonds, at which he
found himself only fairly successful. A venture
in the manufacture of non-skid sock supporters
for college men, brought him only enough jack
to pay the ninth installment of his last year’s
buzz cart. He was thoroughly despondent.

One day he met his former spouse on the street
and they had a number of cross words. An idea
immediately popped into the emptiness of his
cranial territory. Rushing to his domicile, he
fervidly set himself about the completion of his
coup d’etat. The next day, a new variety of
cross-word puzzlés came into existence, and the
fortune of P. Aloystus McGlook was assurred.

SIMPLE SAM’S SOB STORY

Sam Summers sizzled savory sausages stren-
ously so Saturday should see Sammy’s simoleon
supply safe. Sam saved scrupulously—so soft
seemed Sammy’s situation, Sam sported splendi-
ferous socks.

Sylph-like Sylvia scanned Sam’s strongbox,
sporty socks, sturdy Strongfort system. She saw
some sense set sidewise Sammie’s stocky summit.
Sylvia’s slushy sobbing secures Sam’s _ satisfac-
tion, simple Sammy succumbs so sweetly. She
steals Sammy’s savings.

Sylvia slips safely, singing sundry slapstick
stuff. Sam sets strong stepe ’s’ no sign sylph-like
Sylvia sees Sammy. Stalwart Sammy sobs.
