gu

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...-.----.---- Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN....--.--- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

W. _E. MILTON -Assistant Managing Editor
Cc. F. MONK -Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. § -Peanut. Parcher Editor
}, AS BISA Pieter es tas cucs ccs Lopee ban UPaaTT Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE i

--Associate Editor
.-Associate Editor

os A, THOMPSON. a “fet ete Manager

» C. MceSWAIN Subscription Manager
{ M. GARRISON .-Service Manager
Wi SO GYAN OH St is Ses os Sees a nee ae Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB

L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN

A. Y, BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. i FE, MOORE

J. M. APPLEBY “, P. O'CONNOR
H, M, AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH B, Y, PITTS

W._T. COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON FE. K. REGE

A. H, HOLLINGSWORTH I: B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONE « D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

This issue marks the final appearance of
the Davidsonian for the scholastic year 1923-
24. Thirty-one issues have been published
during the past year, and next year an effort
will be made to edit one during each of the
thirty-six weeks of school.

D

Money talks in the publication of the
Davidsonian, and the new business manager
has his ears wide open so as to catch éven
the faintest murmur, His work has at last
begun, and from now until next June the
destinies of the paper lie in his hands. He
starts his term without the handicap with
which former managers have been burdened.

The Class of ’25 safely weathered the
financial storms of Junior Speaking and
emerged with a balance of eleven dollars in
the treasury. Piggy Martin calculated the
expenses and Zander McAlister with the
aid of Bub Oeland collected the cash. A
deficitless Speaking is an achievement of
which the members of ’25 may well be proud.

The 1924 Quips and Cranks will come off
of the press in the next few days. The
staff of this year’s annual has had a hard
road to travel. A nine hundred dollar debt
from the previous year had to be paid, and
a change in editors during the middle of
the year was necessitated by the sickness of

the editor. Despite all this, the annual will
be out on time.

One of the best advertising mediums of
the college this year has been the Glee Club.
_The Club has given concerts before au-
diences in the Carolinas and Georgia, and
during its fall and spring trips has played
before more than 25,000. spectators. The
program which they have presented includes
chorus selections, string quartet, quartet
selections, solos, jazz and symphony or-
chestra selections, and several novelties.

The Y. M. C. A., Ministerial Band, Vol-
unteer Band, and Near East Relief Commit-
tee of the College have also given the Col-
lege a big boost before audiences all over the
state. These three organizations have sent
deputations to high schools and churches in
every part of the state, fromthe east coast
to the Blue Ridge mountains. The members
of these deputations have carried, wherever

they have gone, the spirit and ideals of
Davidson. :

——D.

Work on the South wing of Chambers
building is progressing slowly but surely.
Sometime next fall the first section of the
new Chambers will be ready for use and
classes will be held in it. Nearly three years
have elapsed since the November night when
Chambers burned. Since that time three
dormitories housing double the number of
boys. who roomed in Chambers have been
built, and soon the new Chambers will be a
reality.

The campus of Davidson College is noted
for its natural beauty. Few artificial

----Alumni Editor |

changes have had to be made, but i nthe last
few years due to the continual construction
work on the campus, the grass has been
destroyed in a great many places, and the
beauty of the campus has been lessened.
During the past year a concerted campaign
for the improvement of the campus has) béen
carried on and much has been accomplished.
There yet remains a great deal to be done
and it is up to us to co-operate with the
authorities to make our campus more pre-
sentable.

Day after tomorrow the Seniors start on
their examinations. This marks the final
days of four years work. For the last time
the men of ’24 will havea chance to shoot
their professors. For a large number who
are exempt from examinations the end
cothes tomorrow, but the others have still a
little way to go. It is their final test. On
the work of the next few days depends the
success of four years of college life. We
wish the men of ’24 every success, both dur-

ing the test of the next few days and in their |

post-college life.
D

Carolina has annexed the State Champion-
ships in football, basketball, and track. N.
C, State has the inside track in the race for
baseball honors. Trinity, though deféated
by the Wildcats on the mat, has an even
claim with Carolina for the wrestler’scrown.
On the tennis courts the Carolina doubles

team carried off the honors, but a Davidson |

man, Harry Price, wins the honor of being
the premier tennis player of the state. In
winning the singles championship Price
showed a wonderful fighting heart. Beaten
in the first two sets, 4-6, 5-7, he came back
in the next two and tied his finals match
with Solomon of Carolina by winning 6-2,
6-0. Then in the final set Solomon took the
lead 4-3 but Price after his game comeback
was not to be beaten and took the next three
games and the match. Price clinched his
right to the title by defeating Solomon again
in a dual meet with Carolina,

ON TO BLUE RIDGE

O the student of Davidson the Young

I People’s Conference at Blue Ridge,

June 17-26, offers a great opportunity.
The summer vacation offers a great many
opportunites to every student of today. In-
stead of a period when the student tries to
forget and unlearn all that he has acquired
during the school year, the summer vacation
should be a practical training school where
he puts into practice the ideas of correct
living which he has learned.

Last year seven Davidson students attend-
ed the Blue Ridge Conference. There they
discussed the problems of Christian living
with the leaders of religious thought of
today. Each derived from the association
and companionship, a clearer insight into
practical Christianity. They were given the
facts, and given an opportunity to face them
squarely, They not only learned from these
world leaders, but also from association with
men from other colleges.

This same opportunity is open to us again
this year One hundred and fifty schools
and colleges from ten states have signified
their intention of sending delegates to the
conference. Davidson is included in the
number. It is up to each of us individually
whether we will take advantage of this Op-
portunity or not. We. should at least think
twice about the Blue Ridge Conference be-
fore making our definite summer plans.

DEBATING

Our debating teams have had a successful
year, winning two out of three varsity en-
gagements and splitting even on the two
freshman debates held. Washington and
Lee and Emory lost to the Red and Black
speakers while Trinity won a decision from
Davidson. In the freshman debates ‘the
Wildcats won from Carolina and lost to
Wake Forest in a triangle debate. The
team which lost to Wake Forest was the
only one of the negative teams to receive a
single vote of the judges.

The student body has given the debating
teams better support than has been accorded
speakers in years. A capacity audience list-
ened to the Washington and Lee debate, and
a large number of students went to Queens

for the Emory debate. In former years the’

debating teams have been financed by the
literary societies of the college, but now
debating has become a student body ac-
tivity. The students voted an addition to
the blanket fee to cover the cost of debates.
Great interest has been shown in the de-
bate preliminaries. All of the preliminary
contests for places on the teams were hotly
contested. One fact, however, is noticeable:
Not a single man has gone out for more
than one debate. ‘Formerly the debating
council adopted the unwritten rule that no
man should hold a place on more than one
debating team a year, but their opinion has
changed’ Every” teanx is open to “anyone,
whether he has debated previously or not.
In many schools the policy is adopted, of
picking a good team and ietting it debate
two or more schols on the same subject.

Such a policy is beneficial to the school,
for experience is a great teacher and a team
is usually better in its second engagement
than in its first. This year we lose five men
of the eight who represented us on the plat-
form. New material is needed to fill their
places. It is up to us to keep debating on
the same high plane which it has occupied
during the past year.

Chaff

VACATION

And now, summer is almost here with us. From
all reports of the trusty Swamp Root Almanac
and all local prognosticators of weather signs,
this coming season is going to be one of hot days,
hot times, and hot tempers. Indeed, we believe in
cur trusty almanac to such an extent, that we
forecast to a certainty the exact shade and color
of the weather on any prescribed day one may
mention. This should be of great help to our
readers and they may avail themselves of the

service by writing and enclosing a self-addressed '

and compressed envelope which will be answered
free gratis for nothing.

We have gone to a great expense in collecting
cata for our readers who may be touristically in-
clined, and we are hereby giving a few hints for
routes that will lead to vacation happiness.

Places mentioned below will prove of double-
barrelled interest to all those with trips in view:

Atlantic City—This is a far-famed watering
and likkering place noted for its waves, perma-
nent and otherwise. One piece bathing suits are
in. vogue this year, with plenty of sand in abund-
ance, Boats are rented with a crusing radius
of three miles, cheaply. Stop at the Hokum
Hotel, Scandinavian plan, and enjoy the sea
breezes and mosquitos.

Hollywood—This Mecca of frantic film fans is
one of the jewels of our Western coast. Stars
shine here day and night, and photographs are
made free of charge. Parking facilities are un-
limited and all unnecessary scandal is eliminated.
See the Ferocious and Fierce Film Flappers in
their native habitat. Aeroplanes parked free of
charge. Cars extra.

Yellowstone Park—No need to bring your Black-
stone with you to argue with the guides, they’re
all foreign born and think a tip is an insult. Set
your watch by Old Faithful Geyser, and put off
your annual bath until you reach the Hot Springs.
Fish for sardines in the hotel sinks and get back
to nature in the wild and wooly way. “Dress
suits rented for all Indian ceremonials, and baby
parades held cach month, the winners getting
huge U-totem poles as prizes.

The Grand Canyon—Revel in the pure and un-
adulterated ozone of the Canyon, with its pris-
matic and effervescent cascades effuging their
silvery sheen over the heterogeneous and multi-
hued wind carved caverns. Banish the perplex-
ing problems of urban solicitudes and vibrate
with the synchronized vocal emanations of the
lordly stag and the golden eagle that thrusts his
pinions into the: cthereal blue to soar over un-
chartered and primeval wildernesses that protect
their virgin fastnesses from human eyes. Good
red likker only four berries per gal.

Salt Lake City—The old maid’s paradise on
earth. Take your choice and avoid the rush boys.
Dive for pearls in the Salt Lake, and salt your
sugar right along. ~All cow-punchers are expect-
ed to watch and not scar the ball room floors
with their shooting. Free parking service for
tourists; plain and fancy baggage smashing at
cheap rates. Stock up with water here before
going to Hollywood, as there is none at that
place.

New York City—A nice hick town for Apple-
Knockers. Avoid gold brick agents and don’t buy
the Woolworth building. See Ellis Island and
hear Long Island Sound. . If suffering from
insommnia, be sure to ride the elevated. Read
Homer and see Babe Ruth knock a few for pas-
time. Be sure to see the house where the first
saxaphone was made, and also visit the big in-
sane asylum next door. If your name is Smith,
go up to Albany and shake hands with Al, he
likes it. It is best to wear a red bandana around
one’s neck to keep the dust from the neck. Be
especially watchful and don’t sunburn your ton-
sils looking up at the high buildings.

Davidson—It is best not to come to this place
if suffering from nervous diseases, as the noises
of the city are mighty trying. Many points of
scenic interest are at this quaint little city nest-
led at the foot of the Blue Ridge. Tread the con-
crete walks and recline beneath the shade of the
drug store sign. Visit Main Street at night and
see the gay white way at its worst. Notice the
neatly uniformed police force and street cleaners,
also the beautiful stores and antique shops. See

.the city zoo and aquarium. Leave all husband-

seeking daughters behind.
For Those Who Remain at Home

In event that you do not get to go on a vaca-
tion, the following suggestions may be of bene-
fit. The recipe will be found to be nearly as good
as the real thing. No guarantee is attached to
this offer but it is hoped that it will pJease all
concerned.

No.1. Scatter hay on a medium sized tin room,
and pitch your tent there. Mix thoroughly sev-
eral handfuls of areorted bugs and beetles, shake

a jar of mosquitos around, and turn. two dogs
anda cat loose on the tin. Wait until a nice
sized rain starts, then try to light a fire by the
friction method. Crawl in the tent while wet and
go ‘to sleep. Result: The good old-fashioned
camping spirit. :

No. 2. Roll the family flivver into the dusty
road. Resolve to stay there a week and fish for
gold fish in the fish bowl. Eat only the fish
caught and sleep on the springs; get water there
too. No cussing aloud. '

No. 3. Embark in a tin tub on the stock pond,
freighted with poles, lines, bait, etc. Using a
pocket handkerchief for a sail, cruise around in
the sun all day without a hat, and chase away
the pigs from the shallow water. This is nearly
equivalant to a cruise on the Great Lakes.

NEW VERSE TO COLLEGE SONG IS
SUGGESTED
0, DAVIDSON

The present words of O! Davidson are suited espe-
cially to athletic contests. The following words have
been suggested to be used on other occasions :

Oh, Davidson, we will be true,

Your spirit thrills us thru: and thru.
We love you ever,
Desert you never

For you are a great old school.

And going forth on every side,

Old Davidson, you'll be our pride,

For we will conquer as for you we sing:

Oh Davidson, you will find us
Ever true to be.
Oh Davidson, something binds us
Ever close to thee.
Fight on forever
From dawn to set of sun
Strong in the spirit of
Old Davidson.
W. F. Gallaway, Jr., ’14.

With Other Editors

THE SOCIAL CENTER

Probably the biggest project attempted by stu-
dents of the University of Richmond for several
years is the proposed student social center com-
partment to be established in the Roger Millhiser
Memorial Gymnasium. Rooms nicely furnished
with pictures on the walls and plenty comfortable
furniture, a supply of stationery, a collection of
magazines and college exchanges and access to a
telephone, comprise a few of the advantages of-
fered by such an arrangement. The importance of
having some sort of social centér building for
students on every university campus is universally
recognized. Young men are inclined to flock to-
gether like sheep and thrive best when an op-
portunity is offered to do so.

At this institution there seems to be little hope
tor the erection of a complete social center build-
ing in the near future. Officials recognize the
need, but believe that congested dormitory con-
ditions should be given consideration first. For
this reason it is not likely that students now
attending the University may expect to enjoy
privileges to be offered by a social center building
unless they take the initiative in the establish-
ment of some place that will amply answer tne
present needs. From all appearances it seems
best to promote the idea proposed and adopted
at a recent meeting of the student body.

The idea of arranging social center rooms in
the gymnasium was approved and endorsed by
officials and the Board of Trustees of the Univer-
sity. The Board of Trustees even went so far
as to offer to meet the students dollar for dollar
up to the amount of five hundred dollars for this
project. The social center committee, which is
composed of students representing the four
classes, decided that it would not be asking too
much for each member of the student body and
faculty to contribute and give their full support
to a project which will be worth at least several
times its cost. The faculty have paid their share
in full.

This undertaking is purely a student proposi-
tion. It has ben started and the active campaign
this week has placed the final goal almost in
reach, but it is important that each student should
take some part.in the establishment of this rec-
ognized undertaking. Every young man at Rich-
mond College should feel a desire to sacrifice
some pleasures in order to make his contribution.
The spirit should be established here that exists
at many other institutions—the one that makes
the students feel obliged to put something into the
university This social center proposal offers an
excellent opportunity for the establishment of
such a school spirit and attitude.

Fraternities, organizations and various clubs on
the campus could undertake nothing better at the
present time than to take hold of the social cen-
ter project and assist in making it an immediate
success.

Why not make the enterprise one in which
every student can feel that he sacrificed some-
thing in order to take part? To support a move-
ment of this kind may involve a deprivation of a
few pleasures temporarily, but the returns in
value to the social life of the campus cannot be
measured in terms of dollars and cents.—Rich-
mond Collegian. |

