THEDAVI

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1924

No. 10

Wildcats Hold Carolina to Two Field Goals

Greensboro College

and Converse Glee

Clubs Will Give Concerts in Shearer

Annual to Benefit by the Two Per-
formances Given by Girls

REPRESENT TWO STATES

- Both Organizations Are Well Train-
ed and Will Give Worth-
While Programs

The Glee Club of the Greensboro College
for Women will appear before a Davidson
audience this evening for the first time.

Under the auspices of the annual, Ouips
and Cranks, this talented musical organiza-
tion of young ladies from the Greensboro
College is to give a varied program of in-
strumental and vocal numbers in Shearer
Hall at 8:00 o'clock.

Coming here from Charlotte, where they
staged an entertainment last evening, they
expect to arrive in Davidson this afternoon
at 3:00 o'clock. The party, composed of 30
members, is Foing to be entertained by the
ladies of Davidson and will spend the night
here,

Advance sale of the tickets is reported
good, All proceeds from the concert will
be turned over to the Quips and Cranks.
Tickets, at $1.00, 75c, and 50c, have been on
sale in the White Drug Store during the
past week. Those who have failed to get
tickets may do so at Shearer Hall this even-
ing.

This the first of a series of trips
through North Carolina that the Greensboro
College Glee Club will make during the
present year, They have planned a_well-
balanced and peppy program. In addition
to the usual choruses, solos, and string and
jazz orchestra selections the Greensboro girls
will introduce several new and original fea-y
tures,

is

On Tuesday evening, November 25th, the
Converse College Glee Club will give a pro-
gram in Shearer Hall. The club consists of
40 members who come highly recommended
as to their ability to sing and entertain au-
diences that care for music in the forms of

(Continued on page 6)

Fall Golf Tournaments
Attract Much Attention

Dozens of Pill Chasers Flock on the
Greens Every Pretty Afternoon

Davidson's Fall Golf Tournament is now
under way, several matches having been al-
ready played. This year the entrants were
divided into two flights according to the
qualifying scores turned in previous to the
Start of the tournament. Those turning in a
score better than 45 were placed in the first
flight, while those having scores above 45
are in the second flight. Eight men qualified
for the first flight and 22 for the second.

No scores are yet available from men in
the second flight but in the first three matches
have been ‘completed. Trotter and Earn-
hardt were among the first to play, Trotter
winning. Sid Jones won from Boyce Mar-
tin, and Milhous was victor in the game with
Walker. Milhous then played Sid Jones and
won, which places him in position as one of
the players for the semi-finals.

Malloy and Reeves are yet to play, but the
winner will play Trotter. for a place in the
semi-finals.

Men to compose the. regular golf team are
to be picked in a slightly different fashion
this year, the details of which have not been
completely worked out. _Much* more’ inter-'
est is being taken in golf this fall than be-
fore and more men are entered in the tourna-
ment than were last year. Due to work on
the course it is in better condition than for-
merly and thus attracts men top lay.

Interest Arouses
In the Societies
As Contest Nears

Interest in the four literary societies has
been continually rising within the last. few
weeks. With the election of new officers and
the beginning of new terms, enthusiasm and
“pep” in the work has increased. During
the fall only one contest was held, the try-
outs for the intercollegiate debating team,
in which the four societies divided honors,
each furnishing one man—Wharton (Metro.),
Williams (u.), Hollingsworth (Pan.), and
Ratchford, alternat® (Phi.).
fore the societies now lie numerous contests.
The first will be the Junior-Senior debate,
the preliminaries of which will be held dur-
ing the last of this month, and the finals on
December 10th. Next will come the Senior
oratorical contest. The preliminaries for
this will be held) on December 12th and the
finals at commencement. After Exams there
will be a triangular Freshman debate  be-
tween Davidson, Carolina and Wake Forest,
There will be two three-man teams from
here. The exact dates for the preliminaries
will be announced later. Much interest was
taken in this debate last year and our team
won over Carolina bya unanimous decision.
The Fresh-Soph debates will not be until
next spring. The Juniors have not yet de-
cided on the date for their speeches. Last

(Continued on page 8)

However, be-

College Loses Beloved
Trustee Through Death

Has Alwayso Been Interested in
Davidson Students—Member
of Executive Committee

In the death of Mr. John Phifer Allison,
of Concord, N. C., on Tuesday, November
11th, Davidson has lost true and faithful
friend.

Mr, Allison was born in Concord, August
22, 1848. He came of a family that took a
prominent part in the Revdlutionary assem-
blies of the state and United States Congress.
While considerably hampered in his youth by
a delicate physique,*he later gained strength
and lived a busy and useful life.

Finishing the Concord schools, -he attend-
ed Bingham’s Military School, and after-
wards entered the Mercantile College, in

Baltimore, Md., where he graduated in 1867.
Returning home he began merchandising in
1869 with his father. He made a signal suc-
cess at this work, and.though 76 years old
at his death was still active in the business
world and a booster of civic improvements.
He always had the interests of Davidson at
heart.

He was elected to the Board of Trustees
in 1912 and from that time until his death
served on the Executive Committee. At the
time of his death he was actively assisting
some of the boys in their work at Davidson,
a conclusive proof of his faith in, and loyalty
to, the young men of Davidson College.

The heartfelt sympathy of the student
body, faculty and trustees goes out to the
bereaved family. The faculty sent floral
offerings.

Among those attending the funeral from
Davidson were Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey,
Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, Dr. and Mrs.
J. M. Douglas, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. C. R.
Harding, Dr. and Mrs, C. M. Richards, Pro-
fessor and Mes E. §.- Erwin, and Professor
and Mrs. A. Currie.

Mr. Allison was an uncle of the Misses
Young, of Davidson, and a cousin‘of Profes-
sor and Mrs. Erwin. He has a host of
friends in Davidson and Concord.

Dramatic Club Gives
Three One-Act Plays
Written by Students

All Three Plays Were Cleverly En-
acted—Full House Greets
the Performers

The three one-act plays presented by the
Davidson Dramatic Club on last Saturday

Shearer Hall was filled almost to its
capacity with visitors and students. On ae-
count of the regular Saturday night movie,
the plays were postponed until a late hour,
bu this apparently did not interfere with the
attendance.

cess,

The first play, Understudyiny Launeelot,
Was written by Wood Brown. The scene
was laid ina Southern Railway Pullman, be-
tween Hickory and Statesville. It was just
pened to be two Davidson boys returning
from their At Hick-
ory, a young lady, accompanied by her fath-
er, boarded the train, Al, the hero of the
play, found himself accidentally seated he-
side the young lady, who ‘proves to he the
one whom he holds dear to his heart. A
period of 30 minutes followed, during which
the two engaged in confidential conversation,
while the father and the other member of
the party were in the smoker arguing over
the morals of the younger generation,

vacation on the train,

After this period the lights suddenly went
out and the train was wrecked. In the ex-
citement it was proven that the young are
those who maintain a level head, while the
old are frightened out of their wits. The
scene ended in the dark with the acceptance
of the hero by the heroine.

The second play, Ellen, by D. M. Currie
and Prof. KE. J. Erwin, took in a mountain
cottage. It happened that Charlie Williams,
| the lover of Ellen, wanting her father out of
this way, attended a camp meeting and said
he had obtained religion, As a result of this
|he reported several of his friends, including
Ellen's father, to the officers for bootleg
ging. Although leit and without
‘hite to cat, Ellen refused to marry the man
who was a traitor to her father.

The third play, Blue Blood, was written
by C.F. Smith. The setting was in a news-
| paper office in Elliston, Miss. Paul Court-
ney, manager of the newspaper, fell in love
with his society editor, pretty young
Northerner. — His aunt, prejudiced
against the North since the war, greatly ob-
|jected to her nephew's affection for his em-
The latter though, by her presence
of mind, saved Paul from a serious contro-

alone a

a
aged

| ployee,
|
versy with an enemy of his, thus winning
the good will of the aunt and also her con-
to the wedding. Andy, the
|janitor, added humor to the play.

This year Professor Erwin, director of the

(Continued on page 6)

sent colored

“p

ALL-CLASS BASKETBALL
TEAM

The following all-class basketball
team will of course not bring. satis-
faction to all-who take notice, but un-
doubtedly represents the best in the
tournament.
be on one team where there is only a
shadow of difference between him and
one on another.

In some cases men may

First Team. Second Team.

Faucette -- -. -. _. -. __ -_ Trotter
Right forward

Huie ~~ __ -_ -_ -_ __ Lawson(Caut.)
Left guard

Anderson =. -. 2. _. -. -_ -- Cooke

Center =

Price (Capt.) -- _~ ~~ Goodykoontz
Right guard

Simpson ~~ __ -.... -. -_ _.. Keerans

Left guard a

night, November 15th, were a decided suc- |

after the Christmas holidays and there hap-!

|

Fails to Cross the

The Shaw Concert
Company Delights

|

Davidson Audience

The second number of the Piedmont Ly-
jccum, sponsored by the Junior Class, was
|presented in Shearer Hall, Monday night,
| November 17th, The members of the Shaw
Concert Company, by whom the perform-
ance was presented, were headed by Mrs.
Frances 1. Shaw, pianist. Four versatile
young men musicians assisted her,

The Shaw Coneert Company, regarded as
one of the best numbers on Lyceum circuits,
ipresented a varied and interesting program,
consisting of brass, piano, violin and xylo-
phone solos, brass duets and trios, inter-
spersed with voeal trios; making in all one
of the most enjoyable and profitable enter-
tainments here, ach
an artist on one or more instruments and
showing the perfection of competent diree-
tion, this group of musicians played them-
selves into the hearts of the hearers, who,
with reluctance, bade them good-bye after
the closing number,

ever presented one

Mrs. Shaw is fully competent to direct
such a company. A_ talented musician, ex
cellent: soloist’ and perfect accompanist, she
deserves a large portion of credit for such a
splendid performance, She has been on cir
cuits for the past six years, being associated

(Continued on page 6)

Identity of Christ Is
Theme of Judge Frazer

Supreme Court Judge of South
Carolina Discussed the Legal
Aspect of Christ

Judge T, B. Fraser, of the Supreme Court

South Carolina, spoke to an attentive
audience at the Y. M. C. A. meeting: last
Sunday. Judge Fraser graduated from Da
vidson in 1881, and since then has been a
loyal alumnus.

of

He has been signally hon-
ored in receiving the highest honor confer-
able upon a member of the legal profession
in South Carolina, a seat on the Supreme
Court bench of the state.

Judge Fraser, in a unique approach from
a strictly legal viewpoint, proved conclusive-
ly to his hearers from circumstantial evi-
dence alone that Christ was the promised
Messiah,

“Jesus Christ is the Messiah and did rise
from the dead,” began the speaker. That
He is the Messiah must be proven by  cir-
cumstantial evidence. There is circumstan-
tial evidence that proves much and there is
circumstantial evidence that proves nothing.

“Two small boys were talking.
describing a rabbit he had seen, as having
large cars, large eyes, a brownish color, and
a little jump as he ran. ‘I saw that same

One was

Circumstantial evidence may prove nothing.

“On the other hand, if one were trying to
find a man, knowing that he had red hair, a
mole on his left check, a scar under his right
ear, and the little finger cut off of his right
hand, there would not be one chance in a
million that there could be found two men
answering this description. Circumstantial
evidence may prove very conclusively, if the
circumstances are numerous and strong
enough.”

The speaker based his arguments on the
prophecies. in the Old Testament, prophesied
from one thousand to four hundred years
before the birth of Christ., No one ventures
to deny. that these were not written long be-
fore the time of Christ.

(Continued on page 3)

rabbit last week," responded the other boy. |

Heavy and Experienced Tar Heel Team

Dayidson Goal Line

Thin Red Line Holds Stiff Defense
All Through Game

HACKNEY DROP-KICKS

| Largest Crowd Ever On Davidson .
' Athletic Field Watches Team
Uphold Reputation

Carolina won 6-0; but six thousand five
hundred saw the thin red line hold off the
smashing Tar Heel backs for 57 minutes and
keep their goal line inviolate, of to lose in
the final moments when Bunn Hackney made
two drop-kicks good for the only counters
of the game, Tt was Home-Coming Day on

Richardson Field, and the crowd which pack-
ed the stands saw the gamest defense ever
staged on a Carolina gridiron,

Undaunted by the six-point lead, the Wild-
cats sent the stands into a frenzy with a
perfect aerial attack which netted 55° yards
as the final whistle blew. It was a fitting
climax to a great game, Outweighed 18
| pounds in the line, the Wildeats were unable
to stop the march of the Carolina baeks in
midfield, but inside the danger zone the Tar
HHeels were thrown for losses and foreed to
kick,

Four drop-kicks failed, but the Carolina
team was not to be denied, and with Devin
and Merritt leading the attack marched to
the 10-yard dine. The Wildeat
j stopped the onward march, but Hackney's toe
gave the Tar Heels a three-point lead. After
Robinson intercepted a pass the thin red line
held Carolina a sixth time and Hackney was
called on again to add the final three points,
| With less than a minute to play the Wildeats
made 55 yards only to be halted by the time-

forwards

keeper.

| Davidson won the toss and kicked to Caro-
lina. After an inter¢hange of punts the Tar
|} Heels marched down the field to a first down
on Davidson's four-yard line. The Red and
Black forwards threw Merritt and Under-
wood for losses on the next plays, and on
the third down Captain Davis picked up

(Continued on page 6)

Basketball Gets Early |
Impetus on Local Court

Nine Tried Men Start Early Practice
For Coming Season—Three
Letter Men

Nine men, tried and true, who had been
chosen by Coach Monk to compose his ten-
tative squad, were present at the first var-
sity basketball practice of the year on last
Thursday night. The squad at present
composed of T. F. Staley, Beall, Spee Me-
Connel, all of last year’s varsity; Litch Huie,
of the varsity squad, and Cooke, Anderson,
Faucette, Keerans, Goodykoontz, all of
whom basketball Regular
practice began this week.

Each of the above named men is of super-
varsity
his ability either in varsity struggles or in

is

are class stars.

lative calibre, having demonstrated
| the class tournaments.

| . Mac Beall is three-year jletter man; Staley,
| who is a Senior, has won the monogram for
| two years; Spec McConnell has also played
varsity basketball for three years.

Huie has been the individual star of the
'26 team since his first year; Cooke won
distinction for stellar playing on the Junior
team at the center position. ;

Tom Anderson, captain and star of -the
Soph -teamt, is one af the most brilliane bas-
keteers in the Wildcat lair. He rolled up a
total! number of points this year far in ex-
cess of his nearest rival, scoring the record
total of 26 points in one game. His team-

(Continued on page 8)

