* quarter and the other in the final period |

usually beats*Trinity, mot such a large

6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

y

WILDCATS HOLD CAROLINA

(Continued from page 1) i
Bonner’s fumble and ran to the 20-yard line
before being forced out of bounds. It was
only by the narrowest margin that he was |
stopped. !

After a punting exchange the Fetzer ma-
chine worked its way within kicking dis-
tance, but Vance blocked Hackney’s kick
and recovered for Davidson. Great punting
by Laird featured the remainder of the half.
Merritt and Devin were the bright lights for |
Carolina. The half ended with the ball in
Davidson's possession on her own 25-yard
line.

Hendrix made a beautiful 25-yard return
of Merritt's kick-off to start the half. Laird
punted 45 yards and the Tar Heel backs
started their drive down the field, but the
Wildcats held and the ball went over on the
12-yard line. Laird punted 40 yards and
Carolina drove down the field again, Again
the Tar Heels tried a kick but Devin failed.
Just before the quarter was up Hackney
failed on another kick. Laird punted 45
yards to Devin and Captain Nappy, who was
playing the game of his life, downed him in
his tracks.

Boggs recovered a fumbled punt, but was!
tackled before he could regain his feet. For
10 minutes the ball seesawed back and forth
and then Hackney failed on another drop-
kick. Then it was that the Tar Heels drove
down the field and Hackney accounted for
the six points.

Robinson played a wonderful game at cen-
ter and was the outstanding cause of the
Wildcat defeat. Devin and Merrit were the
bright lights in the Carolina backfield, and
Hackney’s toe did the scoring.

The plucky Wildcat defense won the ad-
miration of the stands; although within the
20-yard mark cight times, Carolina was un-
able to pierce the Davidson defense for a
touchdown. The work of Vance and Laird
was the outstanding feature of the line play.
Time after time these two seeped through
the interference to nail the Carolina backs.
Captain Nappy Davis, on end, played the
greatest game of his career, making sensa-
tional tackles and starring on the receiving
end of passes. Tom Baker, whose fight |
against odds has been outstanding this sea-
son, was hurt on the first play, but stayed in
until the final minutes.

Sappenfield was the star of the backfield,
His tackling was accurate and he saved the
Wildcats several times from being scored
on, by his shoestring tackles. His passes to
Leggette and Davis in the final minute were
perfect. It was 11 fighting Wildcats who
guarded the goal line so well, and to the
fighting spirit of the Red and Black machine
is due the splendid showing.

Varsity to Close Great
Season in Trinity Game

Neither Team in Action Saturday as_
Coaches Prime for Grand Finale |

When Davidson and Trinity clash on/|
Hanes Field in Durham on Turkey Day, |
Trinity will have played eight games and|
Davidson nine. Trinity hs broken even |
having won four and lost four, while on |
the other hand Davidson has won six, |
tied one, and lost two. |

Trinity opened her football season by |
losing to State,,14-0 in Raleigh, Septem- |
ber 27th. Completely outplaying the}
Wolf Pack in the first half it looked like |
a Trinity victory, but the Methodists lost |

At two-sixteen, while the crowd
Was jaming its way through the gates
of Richardson Field, the Carolina
squad came on the field, followed a

few second tater by the Davidson
team, The Davidson band played
“Hark, the Sound of Tar Heel
Voices,” the University alma mater,

while the stands stood. Soon after-
wards the Davidson students sang
“O Davidson,” led by the band. The
two teams were warming up.

Captain Davis and Matthews were
called for the toss-up, Davidson kick-
ing from the south goal. At two-
twenty-eight the two elevens lined up
for the kick-off.

Black kicked to Hogan on 20-yard
line who was tackled by Baker after
return of six’ yards. On this. play
Baker was injured, but played re-
mainder of game. Bonner squeezed
yard off right tackle. Merritt
kicked forty-four yards, ball going
out of bounds on Davidson 29-yard
line. Black hit center for one yard
and Laird pynted against strong wind
to fifty yard line. Bonner ran out of
bounds for two yard gain. Devin
drove through center for five yards
and Bonner was stopped by McComb
around left end after making five
yards and first down, Ball on David-
son 4I-yard line. Carolina was off-
side. Devin raced around left end for
six yards. Merritt made sixteen at
same place. First down on Davidson's
twenty-four yard line. Devin went
three yards over center. Captain
Davis caught Merritt from behind for
no gain but Davidson was off-side.
Carolina had first down on Davidson
sixteen yard line. Devin drove for
four yards aroundright end. Merritt
took one over center. Merritt doubled
for two over tackle and on next play
took ball for first down on Davidson
four-yard line. Flake Laird stopped
Underwood for no gain. Merritt was
thrown for one yard loss. On next
play Bonner fumbled and Captain
Nappy grabbed up ball and raced
down west sideline to Davidson 20-
yard line.

one

Black failed to gain on tackle play.
Carolina penalized for fifteen yards.
After losing two yards around end,
Wells drove for seven off left tackle.
Black made first down when he drove
for nine yards through guard. Robin-
son threw Wells for two yard loss.
Jackson tackled Black after he had
gained two through center. Sappen-
field-McComb pass gained four yards.
Fourth down and six to go, so Laird
punted over goal line.

On first play Merritt kicked
forty-eight yards to Davidson. Black
drove through center for three yards.
Hendrix made two on cut-back play.
Laird punted to Carolina 29-yard line.
No return.

Second Quarter
Merritt barely made one around left
end. Merritt punted, Epstein ground-
ing the ball as it rolled to Davidson
20-yard line.

penalized fifteen yards. Laird punted

On first play Davidson:

Vance leaping over interference to
tackle after five yard return. Devin
plowed through the line for four yards.
Hendrix hit Underwood for one-yard
loss. Hendrix again tackied- Under-
wood for barely one yard gain, Mar-
ritt punted, Captain Davis returning
bounding ball for five yards to David-
son 15-yard line. After Hendrix had
lost one yard, Laird punted on forty-
one yards, Bonner returning: six as
Captain Davis tackled.

After Devin hit tackle for five, Da-
vidson called time out. Merritt
squeezed one yard out of Davidson
line. Hackney, coming in a sub, shot
perfect pass for Bonner for ten yard
gain. Davidson line strengthened as
Merritt made only one and Devin got
off for only two around right end.
3onner grabs pass as it falls from
Captain Davis, for no gain. Hackney’s
drop-kick blocked and Vance recovers
on Davidson 25-yard line.

Wells ‘made two on fake play but
Carolina line threw Hendrix on wide
end-run_ for yard Laird
kicked fifty-four yards to Bonner who
recovered on own 17-yard line. Sap-
penfield returned Merritt’s punt five
yards to Carolina forty-yard line,
Davidson gaining thirty-six yards on
this exchange with winds against Car-
olina this period.

Hendrix drove through center for
six yards and Covington lost five yards
around right end. Hendrix strained
to get wild pass. Sappenfield’s pass
intercepted by Matthews on Carolina

one loss.

33-yard line. Devin hit center for
three yards. Carolina gets first
down as Davidson was off-side. Mer-

ritt ran around end for four yards.
Carolina penalized fifteen yards. Bon-
ner drove over tackle for ten yards.
Merritt fumbled own attempted punt,
but recovers. Merritt punted 35 yards,
no return. Whistle for half blew.
Davidsou first and ten on own own
thirty-yard line.
Third Quarter

Merritt kicked to Sappenfield on
Davidson 5-yard line, who started
around left end, handed ball to Hen-
drix who reversed field for 25 yards.
Wells carried ball out-of-bounds for
one yard gain. Carolina stopped Hen-
drix for slight loss around end, Laird
punted 43 yards to Devin,returning
fifteen. Merritt made eighteen yards
around left end. Devin went around
other flank for five. Laird stopped
Underwood for one yard gain. Jack-
son recovered Devin’s fumble in mad
scramble. Vance threw Bonner for
no gain. Devin went around right end
for seven yards and Merritt made
first down over center.

Bonner let Hackney’s pass slip out
of fingers. Laird hit Devin for one
yard loss and Vance threw Bonner
four yards behind crimmage line. Ball
goes over to Davidson as Hackney-
Merritt pass fails to make yardage.
Laird lifts punt for fifty yards, Baker
tackling Devin after 7-yard return.
Merritt ran over tackle for 13 yards.
Hackney fails to gain. Bonner car-

to Bonner on Davidson 45-yard line,’

ried ball five yards to fifteen marker.
Laird again stopped Hackney for no

HOW TAR HEELS CLASHED WITH WILDCATS |

gain. Hendrix picked up Devin’s wild
drop-kick and goes to ten-yard line.
Laird pnted to Hackney who return-
ed 11 yards to Davidson 34-yard line.
Fordham made three. Pass grounded.
Devin gained three over tackle. Ball
on 20-yard line. Hackney’s drop-kick
slipped through both teams and hits
goal posts only thre feet above the
ground. Wells failed to gain. Black
made three. Laird punted forty-three
yards, Captain Davis tackling Devin in
tracks,

Fourth Quarter

3all on Carolina 36-yard line. Mer-
ritt kicked, Sappenfield returning fif-
teen yards to 30-yard line. Black lost
one as he took ball out of bounds.
Wells skirted left flank for gain of
two. Laird punted to Carolina 42-
yard line, no return. Merritt lost one
as he tried Laird’s tackle. Carolina
off-side. Merritt punted ball out of
bounds on Davidson 4-yard line.
Laird kicked to Hackney, Boggs
picking up fumble and all but geeting
loose for touchdown. Davidson pen-
alized fifteen yards. Laird punts out
of bounds on Davidson 40-yard line.
Merritt drove for five yards off-right
tackle. Hackney side-stepped for fif-
teen yards on cut-back play. Hack-
ney made only one over line. Devin
fails to gain as both teams off-side.
Merritt took four off-tackle. Pass
grounded. Ball on 14-yard line.
Hackney’s drop-kick goes wild.
Hendrix went over center for one
and Black plowed for ten yards at
same place. Black took four more
yards. Hendriv gained three on
guard-play. Laird punted 32 yards
against wind, Devin returning 13.
Davidson line hold to one-yard gain.
Carolina started drive that brought
victory at this point. Devin raced
for 23 yards on tackle play. Merritt
made eleven and another first down,
Dill hit center for five yards and Mer-
ritt goes through tackle for another
first odwn. Ball on Davidson 12-yard
line. Devin made five and cut-back
play and Merritt fails to gain on re-
verse, Devin made it fourth and four
yards to go, ball on six yard line.

Hackney kicked field goal that bare-
ly cleared cross-bar. Score Carolina
3, Davidson o.

Merritt kicked over Davidson goal.
Sappenfield to Black pass ‘gained six
yards. Robinson intercepted David-
son pass on 33-yard line. Merritt
drove off-tackle for five yards. Hack-
ney shot pass to Devin, gained ten.
Merritt again made five. Pass ground-
ed. Tom Baker threw Devin for no
gain, Carolina off-side on this play.
Hackney drop-kicked again, ball on
fifteen yard line.

Merritt kicked into spectators back
of end-zone. Sappenfield passed down
east side line to Leggette for gain of
thirty yards. Davidson penalized five
yards. Captain: Davis grabbed 23-
yard pass off the ground. Game end-
ed after Sappenfield made brilliant
run down side line after fumble. Ball
on Carolina 33-yard line. Score, Car-
olina 6. Davidson o.

prayers by Steele, Rose and Hodgkin. Then
three scripture lessons on subjects each be-
ginning with the letter “P” followed, given
by Phillips, Davis and Purdy. The subjects
were Praise, Prayer, and Power.

The third or last part of the program was
made up of three short talks. Poole’s was
on-The Why. and How of C, E. Publicity.
‘Milton, who spoke on Agents for Christ,
| made some thought-inspiring suggestions.
In Various Ways of Advertising C. E., J.
Garrison told of several attractive and strik-
ing ways of advertising Christian Endeavor.

OU hav to kno collej men

and what they want before

ou can bild shoes to suit them.

e new John Ward Fall Styles

fit their needs with the same

snug satisfaction that the shoes
wil fit their feet.

On Display By
Mr. A. M. Shimmon

at Honor Store
November 26 and 28

ohn’

els es
INCORPORATAD —~ ARO. U.8. PAT. OFDD

Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark

and Philadelphia “S Address for Mail

Orders, 121 Duane st., New York City

their drive in the third quarter and al-| of playing straight football she resorted

lowed Al Johnson to cross their goal |
line twice. The following Saturday Guil- |
tord fell before the Blue Devils in Dur- |
ham. She had the advantage during the |
entire game and completely outplayed
her opponents to a 33-6 victory. |

Carolina, the next opponent, was |
credited with a 6-0 victory due only to!
two drop kicks, one by Devin in the third

by Sparrow. Although loser Trinity
claims a moral victory for this game. In-
cidentally it might be said that this was
the first game between the schools that
Carolina has failed to score a touch-
down.

Invading the “Old Dominion” a week |
later she evened up her standing by tak-
ing one from Richmond College in Rich-
mond. Pftaying straight football for four
quarters the Blue Devils annexed a 14-0
victory. However, Virginia retaliated the
following Saturday when William and
Mary uncorked a dazzling forward pass
attack to trounce her N. C. rivals 21-3.
This came as a surprise both to the root-
ers and dope fiends. Although Virginia

score was expected.
Playing the next game in ‘her own back
yard she was easily able to roll up a

54-0 score over the lighter Elon eleven.

to passes over fifteen of which were com-
pleted for substantial gains and were
responsible for a goodly number of the
points scored.

Armistice Day spelled defeat for the
Blue’Devils at the hands of Wake Forest,
when the Demon Deacons completely

jerushed them under a 32-0 avalanche.

However the score in no way told the
relative strength of two teams. Trinity
lost all chances for championship honors
by losing this game while Wake Forest
more firmly established herself as being
in line for that honor. Last Saturday
she again evened up her schedule by de-
feating Wofford 12-0. This made her
win four of the eight games played; the
one lost being State, Carolina, William
and Mary, and Wake Forest.

Carolina could do nothing with their line,
winning by two field goals. Nor could
the Tar Heels move the forwards on
Richardson field within the Red and
Black ten yard line.

Last week Mrs. Fleagle gave a party for
the ladies of Davidson whose birthdays fall
in November. Her guests were Miss Mary
Richards,” Mrs. C. S. Goodrum, Miss Flor-
ence Barnes, and Mrs. Porter.

Cross Country Team to
Run Against Baptists

A cross-country run has been arranged

for December 6th between the Davidson
and Wake Forest cinder teams.
will be one of three miles and will take
place in Wake Forest.

The run!

so that when practice begins in earnest
the long weeks of loosening up stiff
muscles will be eliminated and real work

_ begun at once.

TRAINING CLASS MAKES
STUDY OF ADVERTISING

The C. E. Training Class held one of the

A definite line cannot be had on the most interesting and unique programs of
team as yet for no trials for speed and | the year on last Sunday. The subject of the
time have been held, the squad merely meeting was The Advertising of Christian

doing the distance to build up form and Endeavor.

endurance. The team of five will prob-
ably be picked early next week by Coach

“Tex” Tilson when time trials will be presented in three parts.

held for all candidates. Webb, Williford,
and Gudger are expected to form a
nucleus and several freshmen are show-
ing up exceptionally well.

No information is available on the
team that will bear the colors of Wake
Forest. However it is reasonable to state
that it will live up to the reputations
gained by the other Baptist teams and
will give the Red and Black runners a
merry race. -

This is the first and only event of its
kind that Davidson participates in this
fall although a large squad is turning
out daily for practice. Trail starts and
sprints and various events are being held

|

The class was divided into three
parts, each part forming the side of a tri-
angle, and each phase of the program was
Pritchett led the

meeting. Three songs were followed by

© Hart Schaffner & Marx

Young Men Tell Us
We’ve Scored A
Bullseye

There’s just the right
swing of youthfulness

-in these new clothes

of ours. ‘They say the

styles are flawless,
there’s vigor, life,
ZIP in them.

Mellon’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

_The Most Convenient For
Davidson Men

