6.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1924

RED AND BLACK SPORTS

Wildcats Lose Two Hardfought Games
To Wake Forest and State On The Road

State Wins Twelve Inning Contest
on Riddick Field—Wake Forest
Swamps Wildcats

The Wildcats lost an 8-0 decision to Wake
Forest in the first game of their two-day
trip, but gave the Techmen a hard fight be-
fore losing 2-1 in 12 innings.

Wake Forest Game

The Davidson nine continued their losing
streak by dropping a 8-0 loss to Wake For-
est, April 17th, on the Baptists’ home field.

The Wildcat batsmen were not able to con- |

nect with their opponents’ offerings, getting |
but three hits. The Wake Forest boys, how- |
ever, met Boushee's benders hard and often |
and piled up 7 of their 8 tallies in two in-
nings. |

The Baptists were out for blood and until |
after the third the Wildcats were unable to!
stop the onslaught. In the opening frame |
two runs were chalked up for Wake Forest |
when Simmons singled, Greason sacrificed,
Armstrong singled, stole second, Arnette
doubled, and Simmons and Armstrong
scored, x

Wake Forest ran wild in the third and/
drove Boushee from the mound. Two walks,
Arnette’s second double, Edward's bingle,
and a home run by Martin accounted for five
tallies. The Presbyterians tightened down)
behind McPherson and let the Baptists have |
but one more run, that in the fifth when |
Edwards whanged a triple into left and!

romped home on Daniels’ ballooner to center. |

Frank Alford got a three-bagger in the |
second, but he died on the keystone sack. |
This was the only real hit that left the Red
and Black hickories during the whole game. |
The change from the home field did not help
the Wildcats to find their stride—it affected |
their eyes, for 10 men struck out in the five |
innings twirled by Jones and six in the fonr |
by Sorrell.
The line-up and summary follow:

DAVIDSON AB RHPOA E,
Simpson, 2h -.----_____- 4004 4 2|
Covington, 3b ----_--____ 30011 0}
Shetty, I) 400901]
Alionderivcss 2: gosk eo dh) il)
Uae), @) eae ae 30141 1|
Ali ordjies( casos ue ou 400 3 2 0)
AVANCG; arf) secs ew 40109 0
Marrow, cf ~.----...-..- 3001 0 9)
Boushee, p --------_-~_- 0001
002190
00000
cores [ame cet I poset Hy comes oe GEES |
Motalsgeecees 2 32 0 3 27 10 5|
W. FOREST AB R HPOA E)
Simmons, If -~--.-_+____ 51120 0}
Greason, 2b Weak ye 7} 1|
Booleyvof = St: case 10 2 0 0}
Armstrong, 3b ---______-_ 32°10) 1 1)
Arnette, ss Lele Oneal
Edwards, rf it 74 i)
Martin, c-1b 0111 10
Danielflb; 25222222 00100
Jones, p —--- 0200 0
Hood, ¢ ---- OM § i @
Sortellisp ests oes 00100
otal s vee sresta eta 35 8 10.24 5 3
Score by innings: R,
Davidson: 22s-22252000 20 000 000 000--0
Wake Forest ~-_-._-_______ 205 010 00x—S$
Summary—Two-base hits: Arnette Ge

three-base hits: F. Alford, Edwards; home
run: Martin; sacrifice hits: Greason, Poole,
Martin; base on balls: Boushee 3 in 3 in-
nings, McPherson 1 in 5% innings, Jones 1
in 5, Sorrell 1 in 4; struck out: by Jones 10,
Sorrell 6, Foushee 1; stolen bases: Greason,
Armstrong; hits off Boushee 6 in 3 innings,
McPherson 4 in 5% innings, Jones 2 in, 5,
Sorrell 1 in 4; winning pitcher: Jones ; losing
pitcher : Boushee; time: 1:30; umpires : Cad-
den and Holding; attendance: 1,000.

State Game

Coach Monk's tossers lost a. hard fought
12-inning contest to the N. C. State nine,
April 18th, by a 2-1 count. The Red and
Black tossers made a strong bid for victory
in the eleventh, but Johnny Smith was called
out on a perfectly executed squeeze play, and
the Techmen won out in the twelfth.

State drew first blood when Johnson walk-
ed in the second, took another base on a sac-
‘rifice, and scored as Holland doubled to right.
Gilbert smashed a hot one through the in-
field, but Vance scooped’ it up and threw io
home, where Holland was caught out by
several feet.

The Red ,and-Black pulled a rally. the
ninth’ and duplicated the series of plays

which had accounted for State’s single tally.
Allen passed Boushee, who advanced to sec-
ond on Laird’s sacrifice; Kimbrough, playing
for Simpson at second, speared a Sharp single
into center and brought Boushee home.

The Wildcats set out to corner the contest
in the eleventh. Johnny Smith, after being
given a base, was worked around to the
third sack. :

Vance again saved the D. C. bacon in the
second half of the ninth. One down; Shu-
ford singled, and Al Johnson zoomed a liner
to right that seemed as if it would never
stop rising. Harry Vance at the crack of
the bat had started for the fence. The ball
came down in the extreme corner ofthe field
and came down in Harry’s trusty mit. Shu-

ford, having seen what looked a sure homer |

sale off into the atmosphere, had already
crossed the plate. Vance's Brow doubled
him at second.

State ended the fray in the twelfth. Glad-
stone and Johnston singled. Johnson filled
the sacks when he beat out his bunt. Las-
siter slashed one into left and brought over
the needed marker.

The line-ups and summary:

DAVIDSON AB RHPOAE
| Simpson, 2b ~_-_-_-____ 400220
Kimbrough, 2b _---______ 2011090
Matronyalt; eas 5 lees ees 601400
Covington, 3b _._-__-___ OM) Bi wb
Wanceanfrssevc Soca § WM it it QW
I, ANN, Oe 401720
Sie Altordyassiweae sees JO it i 2 0
Ueromithyal bese ne sae ee 5 0 015 1
| Boushee, cf ~.-_-_______ QO dW ib
aid) see ce eee 302040
MOtAIS yoke Soe eee 42 1 9 33 16 0
STATE AB H RPOA

C. Shuford, cf -..-_--_- 3 WM th i 0)
Gladstone, 2b lil Wf 2 fy)
Johnston, rf 0120 0!
Johnston, If It Qi ) @)
Lassiter, 1b 0215 0 1
Holland, 3b Ole 2) sl
Gilbert, ss ---__ 01130
P, Smith, ¢ _-___- 00220
W. Shuford, c —-- 00010
MTU op see es esis 00020
Allene prereset estes 00040

DOtals esc G eae ss 36 2 9 3617 2

Score by innings: R.
Davidson seats es 000 000 001 000--1
Statevs sess sce aa 010 000 000 001—2

Summary—Two-base hits: Covington 2,
F, Alford, Holland; sacrifice hits : Boushce,
Laird, Gladstone, Lassiter 2; double plays:
Vance to J. Smith; base on balls: off Laird
2, off Hill 1, off Allen 3; struck out: Ly
Laird 2, by Hill 2, by Allen 4; winning
pitcher: Hill; hit by pitcher: Vance by
Allen; hits off Hill: 2 in 4 innings, off
Allen 7 in 8 innings; left on bases: David-
son 10, State 3; time: 2:15; umpire: Mr,
Siner. :

VOLUNTEER BAND HEARS
THREE SPEAKERS SUNDAY

D. Benton Wharton, Tom Barr and Jack
Miller made short, forceful, practical talks
to the Volunteer Band on Sunday morning,
at the usual meeting of the Volunteers.
Wharton, speaking first on having a purpose
and sticking to it, brought out in an original
way the thought that only so far as we have
in us something of Christ can we ever do
any good in the world. Education and
theory have their place, but they are useless
without the life behind it. Others will
learn of Christ more from what they see of
Christ in us than any other way.

Jack Miller, speaking second, “took the
parable of the talents, and following it
through showed clearly its application to
campus life. Barr, speaking last, spoke of
how the watchword of the Volunteer Union
could be carried out on the campus, the
watchword being The evangelization of the
world in this generation. He suggested sev-
eral practical and important ways, among
which were the doing of little things that
we are called on to perform, having a spirit
of co-operation instead of that of criticism
with regard to conditions on the campus, and,
most of all, spending time in prayer and
cultivating that, the most important as well
as most neglected part of a man’s life.

McAlpine presided and the meeting proved
to Gz-one of the most interesting held this
year. :

| Off the athletic field Sorrells was also one
I. | of

| Goodykoontz,

Niches in the Wildcat
Hall of Fame

| GEORGE BASCOMB (LEFTY)
SORRELLS
| D* Football D* Baseball
| Just as one can nowhere find a higher peak
of Davidson fight and spirit than that which
on a November day of 1922 held the leading
claimant for South Atlantic honors, V. P. f,
to a tie, just so in that game George Bas-
cum Sorrells showed to all football fans that
he was the cornerstone of that spirit. The
score was tied at 7-7; Virginia Tech was
| Pushing toward the Davidson goal; after
| four pile-driving plunges’ the ball passed over
|to the Red and Black squad on the one-yard
|line and it was only then that Bascom allow-
led his broken fingers to be bound up.
| Bascomb began his football career at Dua-
| vidson by captaining his class team, and
|from there to a place on the Scrubs and
He was
equally at home at the guard position, and
in 1922 he played regularly at that position.
In summing up his playing, the 1923 Quips
jand Cranks says: “He was a quick, low
charger and smeared many a play before it
,could gain momentum.” His speciality was
on the defense, but often Bascomb was a
part of the team that moved some strong
opponent out of the way for the drive of

; then in 1921 he was found at tackle.
|

>| the backfield.

Following his line of development in foot-
ball, Sorrells in baseball from the
Scrubs and captaincy of his class team to
the position of Varsity pitcher in the spring
of 1922, His mighty build combined with
his left-handed twists often proved the de-
feat of another team and the battery, Sorrells
| and Brice, worked just as well together in
i baseball as the team Sorrells and Brice did
in football. Bascomb was especially strong
in the pinches and his ability to tighten up
was perhaps his biggest asset.

rose

23's strongest men, being president of the

| Senior class, active in literary society work
}and a well-known orator.

George Bascomb Sorrells cut a wide path

lin his college course, but none never cut
| their’s deeper.

LIBRARY NEWS

Among the new books recently added to
the Library are the following biographies :
‘asus, an able study of his life, ideals,
and place in history, by Dr. Preserved Smith,
professor of History in Cornell University.
Henry Ford, an interesting biography of
the great manufacturer and business man,
by Rev. William L. Stidger.

The Religious Experience of John Hum-
phrey Noyes, by George Wallingford Noyes.
This book is interesting as a character study,
besides being valuable as a record of the
founding of a religious enterprise which
once attained great prominence.

My Musical Life, a volume of collections
by Walter Damrosch ;Fifty Years a Journal-
ist, an unusual and striking book by Melville
E, Stone, former general manager of the
Associated Press; Far Off Things, by Ar-
thur Machen. The New York Tribune says
that this book is “A moving and delicious and
superb rendering of the life of a remarkable
man and a great prose artist.” Garibaldi and
the Making of Italy, an historical biography
by G. M. Trevelyan; Grover Cleveland, the
Man and the Statesman, by McElroy. This
life-story of President Cleveland is in two
volumes, and has both a literary and an his-
torical value.

FRESHMAN CINDER SQUAD
PREPARING FOR MEET

The work of the Freshmen that. are out
for track was held up considerably last Week,
but with the coming of clear weather this
week they have had several good work-outs,
and are in fairly good condition. There are
quite a few men out, and some fine material
has shown up in several events. The Fresh-
men should account well for themselves in
the meets that are to be held.

While no meets have been officially sched-
uled thus far, plans are being made for meets
with Charlotte, Winston-Salem and possibly
Greensboro, All of the schools have good
teams, and close meets are anticipated. Win-
ston-Salem has written Coach Younger for
a meet and it only remains to arrange a date.
The meet will more than likely be held at
Davidson.

Among the promising candidates that have
been working for the last few days are:
Henderson, Brand, Farns-
worth, Inman, Lincoln, Bohannon, Craig,
Fleming, Webb, besides others.

Freshmen Prepare For
Four-Game State Tour

Carolina, Wake Forest, N. C. State,
and Trinity Will Furnish
Opposition

The Wildkitten nine under Coach Raw-
son is now ready to face the real test of
the season as they go on their trip to
meet four real fresh teams: Carolina,
Wake Forest, N. C. State and Trinity.

The Wildkittens have been having good
work-outs and aside from a few errors
they have shown some real ability on the
diamond.

The first game of the series will be at
Chapel Hill where the Fresh team will
meet the Tar Heel Fresh who have
easily beaten Trinity 6-2.

On Saturday the Wildkittens will vie
with the Methodist yearlings at Wake
Forest. So far the Wake Forest Fresh
have only played High Schools, winning
from Wendell, 22-0 and Henderson, 5-0
but losing to Cary by the close score, 1-0.
In the Cary game, Person pitching for
Wake Forest, fanned 16 men. The Fresh
will face a strong pitcher if Person plays
Saturday. ‘ "

The Wildkittens will meet N. C. State
at Raleigh on Monday, 28th. The only
dope about the State Fresh tossers is a
victory over Trinity, 9-6.

The last game of the series is with
the Trinity Freshmen at Durham, on
the 29th. So far as comparative scores
go the Davidson Freshmen should come
out on top in this game as the Methodist
pitching staff seems to be weak.

BE A NEWSPAPER CORRE-
SPONDENT with the Heacock
Plan and earn a good income while
learning; we show you how; begin
actual work at once; all or spare
time; experience unnecessary; no
canvassing; send for particulars.
Newswriters Training Bureau, Buf-
falo, N. Y.

LOST AND FOUND

WILL WHOEVER HAS DAYTON
steel racket with letters H. M. A. and
L. H. S. on heel please return it to Watts’
Hall; single room, second floor ?

I can furnish you with com-

plete Radio Sets and Parts
Radiola and other
Reliable Sets

Complete outfits installed on

short notice
Work guaranteed
$29.50 to $500.00
F. J. BENDER

E. CENTER AVE. MOORESVILLE, N. C.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES
Talk No. 2

JUST BUSINESS

BEFORE September, 1922

theonly real good clothes
you young men could buy
were made to order by tailors
of reputation. They did not
care whether you paid them
in three months or six, and
they knew some of their cus-
tomers would never payatall.

CAN you blame them for
the extra $20 you had to
pay on each suit or overcoat?

WE sell on a cash basis only.

(No. 2 of a series of talks with
tips for men who dress well.)

To take care ofour growing trade, we have
been compelled to open branches at

177 Broadway
' New York City

863 Broad Street
Newark, N. J.

Home store, as always,

841 Broadway
New York City

NAT LUXENBERG «& Bros.

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

that’s an improvement.

jee

This cap stays put!

Other caps get lost but the new Williams

Hinge-Cap stays where you want it.

Like the cap, the shaving cream in the
Williams tube is a big improvement, too. For
Williams lather is heavier and faster-working.
It holds the water in, so that your beard is |
softened sooner. And the lather lubricates. The
razor fairly glides over your skin! Because of a
soothing ingredient in Williams you can shave
daily yet always have a smooth and well-cared-
for face. Williams is pure, natural-white cream.
Absolutely without coloring matter. Buy it, try
it—with the new Hinge-Cap!

_ Williams
aving Cream

Truly,

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
