2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924
WELCOME SUPPORT
THE MONK
FETZERS AND TEX
Seni int Smothered
eniors Quint Smothere The Kick-Off STANDING CLASS BASKET.
Fs BALL TOURNAMENT
Under Powerful Attack
Sophomore Five Continues March By Don Wharton cai ue ae a
to Victory Over Other Quints, aa : sen caneees 5
Winning 46-10 Today a son of Davidson returns to his Seniors --------- 2 3 .400
—_ alma mater. Great as have been the athletic Juniors es ae | 2 333
With Captain Anderson on the warpath heroes of Davidson, the name of William | Rreshi: scosusasncs ts) 3 .000
again the Soph steam-roller buried the Se- | McK. Fetzer stands among the foremost.
nior basketball quint under an avalanche of As a good player, as a successful coach, but
brilliant basketing last Tuesday night, to ever as a son of Davidson he brings his
the count of 46-10—the most crushing defeat | North Carolina University team back to
of the present season. By this victory the | Play the best Davidson team of years. Bob OUGHS
Sophs ran their total to five straight wins | Fetzer, his brother, and a Davidson athlete, |
and no losses. ‘is associated with him. Every fewhoursswallow
Before the Seniors could organize their ——__— : slowly a quarter of a
defense their opponents had gained a safe Their return is unique, history-making. teaspoonful of Vicks. Also

lead which was never threatened. In the
second half the '27 hoys launched the most
dazzling offensive of the year and literally
swept all opposition.

Every man on the Soph aggregationsplay-
ed a fast game; Anderson, Faucette and
Goodykoontz all basketed brilliantly.

Seniors (10) Position Sophs (46)
Lindley (2) -- -- -- -- -- -- Faucette (14)
Right forward
Mathews (0) -- -- -- -- -- Simpson (4)
Left forward
Trotter (2) -- -. -- -- -- Anderson (16)
Center
PriC61(6) eatkur Ga se eer coves wNcerans (0)
Right guard
Wharton (0)-- -- ~~ ~~ Goodykoontz (12)
Left guard

Substitutions—Seniors: Holshouser, Joe
Matthews. Sophs: Kaiser, W. W., and

Kaiser, G. Referee: Hewlett; timekeeper :
J. McConnell.

That year the Davidson team, although
losing, opened up an offensive that carried
the ball down the field from the Wildcat
29-yard line, a pass Hendrix-to-Davis car-
rying the ball over,

[III ITI rrrry

Central Cafeteria

“On the Square”’

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

Coot tt rr tr Ir tr ttt ee

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

Try itt ttt titi irriitrritir ry}

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Sr rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrirrrirrrirrrr |

Spalding : Reach -

; Goldsmith Goods
i Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

18 East Trade Street :

For the first time a Carolina football team |
plays on Davidson soil. In the near 30 years
of football contests Charlotte has seen this
game 10 times, Winston-Salem seven, Wil-
mington and Greensboro once.

Last year the Davidson team went down
to Chapel Hill and though doped to lose by
a great score, outplayed the Tar Heels but
lost 14-3.

HARRY VANCE Eee
Saturday Coach Younger’s machine rang
up the first Davidson victory over the Clem-
son Tigers since 1917, Not strange to say,
that year was one of Fetzers at Davidson.

Veterna Guard whose work in Clemson
game attracted State-wide
attention

Wrestlers Ainawer Call
Issued by Capt. Weems

Pupil and teacher meet also today on Rich-
ardson, for it was under the Fetzers that
Monk Younger got his first collegiate coach-
ing, winning four letters his Freshman year
at Davidson.

About Thirty Matmen Began First
Practice in Gym Monday—More

Fresh Needed But two different systems meet this after-

——- noon when the Younger-Tilson machine with

its) Virginia Tech.-Penn.

The wrestling season has opened up in
full sway, the first practice being held last
Monday afternoon at the gym. About 25 or
30 men have reported for the practice and
have already begun working hard for a berth
on this year’s team. Captain Weems, the
Wildcat wrestling coach, is busily getting
the men in good physical shape for the fast
approaching season, which will begin in
only a month’s time, with the first match
being held with the team at Concord “Y,”
December 12th. The wrestlers are working
very earnestly, realizing that it will require

State attack runs
into the Tar Heels. i

To Monk Younger and Tex Tilson is due
the credit for all that Davidson has done
this year for when they arrived here. it
1923 the hopes of Davidson had reached near
despair, Out of the gloom they have brought
forth a fighting team and a winning team.

While Davidson tied the record of six
games won in one season last week, the

Carolina team led by Merritt sent the Flying

a lot of hard and intensive training to pre- | Squadron back into the Virginia hinterland
pare them for the coming season, which has | with their season marred with another 3-0
several big matches on the schedule. Quite | defeat. The dope was once again upturned.
a number of the best wrestlers are now | —_——

practicing with the football squad, and so; Bunn Hackney, former Durham High
will not be able to report for mat practice | School star, accounted for the winning field
until the football season is over. But with | goal with a 20-yard drop-kick from an angle
the daily grind of football practice they will | of 30 degrees.

be in fine physical shape for the wrestling |

peers | The Clemson contest saw not only four
Captain Weems seems fairly optimistic | Wildcat warriors rise to great heights—
over the prospects for this year’s team, and | Hendrix and Vance, Sappenfield and Baker—
is very pleased with the first practice, with | but it saw that a Davidson machine, in spite
the one exception regarding the small num-|of the absence of several regulars, could
ber of Freshmen that have turned out for | “carry on.”
wrestling. Only a very few Freshmen have |

gone down to the gym and reported:for prac-| Three times getting off for more than 15
tice, and Captain Weems says that he is| yards and punting like a regular, was only a
very disappointed at the present little in-! part of Popsy Hunt's work. Captain Davis,
terest that the Freshmen are taking in| after Hunt had been injured, was called back
wrestling. He asserts that there should be|to punt, and for the first time since high
at least 15 Freshmen, if not more, out for | school days the booting department was in
wrestling. It is the only sport which the | his hands.

Freshmen can make their Varsity letter, and, | peste

with many berths on the team left vacant by} Much could be written of the work of
last year graduates and a few who have Boggs at guard as he dug through into the
withdrawn from college, there is an excel-| Clemson backfield; of Black at fullback as
lent chance for Freshmen to make the team.| he bucked the ball for what remained to be

Many are needed in each weight class, but | gained of the first down. His defensive work

especially in the heavy-weight one, which re- | was good.

quires 180 pounds, or preferably an even | peerinesec
heavier man. Any man with this weight! November the 8th will go down in North
will have an excellent chance to make the | Carolina sporting history as a day when
canny and is urged to report immediately to| three Tar Heel elevens sent invading South-
; Captain Weems. : {ern Conference teams back in defeat as

Wrestling is a comparatively new sport Carolina, State and Davidson won over V.
|M. L, V. P. I, and Clemson.

Hunt is the only other Davidson player
who was in that game. Last year he put up
a wonderful game down at Chapel Hill. He
has been steadily improving the past few
contests of this season.

: Wright & Ditson

has been showing up splendidly, .comparing
favorably with the best teams in the South
Atlantic States. But the future of wrestling
depends, to a great extent, on this year’s

here at Davidson, but for the past few years 2

Freshman class.

TOM BAKER

Entire Charlotte crowd Rose to cheer
his wonderful playing at tackle
Saturday

Tennis Match Here Won
by Charlotte All-Stars

Former Davidson Men Win Three
Matches to Davidson’s Two—
Price Goes Good

The Davidson tennis team went down be-
fore the superior play of the invading rack-
eteers from the Charlotte Country Club, here
on the Hill, November 7th, The Wildcats
won three matches to the Queen City’s four.
Two matches were unfinished on account of
darkness. Harry Price, Davidson’s lead
man and holder of the Carolina intercol-
legiate title, easily defeated Tom Hawkins,
the Charlotte champion, 6-2, 6-1, in the
feature match of the meet. Price, combined
with Beall, also won the lead doubles, playing
Hawkins and Henderson to a 6-3, 6-3 loss.
MacPherson Beall, in the hardest-fought
match of the afternoon, defeated Bob Cun-
ningham, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4.

The Charlotte team won the rest of the
matches completed. The Davidson reserve
players lacked the punch to win after get-
ting a lead. Tom Staley was absent from
the Varsity four and this threw more than
the usual amount of play on the reserve men.
Bill Yates, of Charlotte, defeated Jim Trot-
ter, of Davidson, 5-7, 6-1, 6-1. A. J. Hen-
derson defeated Bob Crosland (D), 6-4, 6-3.
McClintoch (C), defeated McCutchen (D),
6-4, 5-7, 6-2; and McClintock and Gilchrist
(C), defeated McCutchen and Brown (D),
4-6, 6-3, 7-5.

Parker (D) and Gilchrist (C) had each
won a set when stopped by darkness. Trot-
ter and Crosland (D), playing Cunningham
and Yates (C), also were unable to finish.

This was a return match, the one the
week before having resulted in an uncom-
pleted tie. All the members of the Charlotte
team are former Davidson men with the ex-
ception of Yates, so that the victory was in
some ways a Wildcat win.

Of the Carolina team that plays this aft-
ernoon there remain four men of the famous
“wonder team” of 1922 which went through
a hard Southern schedule undefeated and
played Yale off her feet in the Bowl. Those
are Captain Matthews, McIver, Merritt and
Sparrow.

melt a little in a spoon
or a tin cup and inhale
the vapors arising.

ICKS

VarpoRus

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

The Old S tand

CIGARS
SANDWICHES

CIGARETTES
CANDIES

Appreciative Service

W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet
DRY!
E. A. FRY

The Mender of Shoes

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description
“‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see
C. M. S. McIlwaine

14 Ga,

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Coa

Henderson’s Auto
Electric Company

“U-DRIVE’MS”

Wholesale.

When You Need Candy
See Us

baer | bc Be

26 28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -”

