THEDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 21,

19,

Life Work Campaign Begun Sunday,
Marks Week of Inspirational
: Sermons by Rev. King

Davidson Graduate Wins Heart of
Men in First Talk at “Y” Vespe
Services

| :
Rawson’s Yearling Quint
rl

_ Breaks Even on Journey
COLUMBIA QUARTET SINGS Fresh Reat
Bob King Holds Chapel Service in CHI ron

lina Fresh:
Addition to Regular Evening Carolina Freshmen
Service

Monday afternoon «after
and been scratched in the four games of the
trip. Following a very successful stay at
home, the Junior Wildcats split even on their

The Y. M. C. A. Vesper service Sunday
evening marked the beginning of the Life
Work Campaign which will close Friday
night.
is Synodical Evangelist of Georgia, is con-
ducting the services. During his first day
at Davidson he endeared himself to all with
whom he came in contact, and a full house
greeted him at the opening service of the
campaign, v

“preps” and N. C. State Fresh and losing to
the Trinity and Carolina teams.

ity and came from behind, overcame a 15 to
12 lead and emerged victorious to the tune

“But wait for the promise of the Father,”
Acts 1:4, was the text chosen by the evange-
list in his sermon on “Why Have a Re-
vival?”

each team did stellar work. The Freshmen
|ond period. Anderson and Faweett starred
“Just as my father hath sent me, so Tjin this game, the former accounting for 12
send you.’ Why did Christ come into the | of Davidson’s markers, while the latter
world?) Why did the Father send Him? dropped the inflated sphere through the laced
‘For God so loved the world, that He sent | ring for five field goals.
His only begotten Son, that whosoever be-| In the game at Durham on Thursday night
lieveth on Him should not perish, but have | the Davidson Fresh showed a complete re-
everlasting life. For God sent not His Son! versal of form, while the Trinity Fresh
into the world to condemn the world, but | wiped out the stain of their 24 to 12 defeat at
that the world through Him might be saved! | the Davidson gym. The game was a poor
Except for the fact that we do not have! exhibition of basketball, with
the power of redemption, our mission js the
same as that of Christ: to bring the world

lar work for his team.
to the Saviour, to God.

for the wheel of the team and caged several
“I do not for one minute belittle the work | long shots and followed others up for mark-
of philanthropy being done by the church, ers. For Davidson, the whole team was off
but the real purpose of God’s people is to, form, Simpson, at left guard, showed a
save souls. But we must wait on the spirit. | good brand of defensive play and did much
“Jesus said ‘wait’ to the ministers who had | towards keeping the score from being larger
received the best training of any ministers in than it was. Winn did some good work when
the world. They had been at the feet of |he was put in as a substitute. He caged two
Christ for three and a half years, but He | pretty shots. The final score was 28 to 15,
told them to wait, They were not ready | with Davidson on the light side of the hal-
to go out until the Spirit had come upon lance,
them,
(Continued on page 3)

Omicron Delta Kappa To
Meet at Centre College

R. R. James Davidson Delegate to
Fifth Convention of Fraternity

{to 21. That the game was close is shown
by the 11 to 10 score at the end of the first
|period. Carolina held the lead. The Caro-
jlina captain was the star of the fray and
| played a fine game. Hewlitt, captain of the
| Presbyterians, played a steady game and bids
highest for the star for the losers, Sapp
| joined the team at Carolina,

The Kittens seemed to have come back into
| their own in the game at Raleigh, in which
| (Continued on page 2)

The fifth national convention of Omicron
Delta Kappa will be held. in Danville, Ky.,
on February 22nd and 23rd. The Zeta Cir- |
cle of this society at Center College is to be
the host at this convention. Delegates are
expected from the nine different circles in|
addition to the visiting alumni members and
the grand officers. Davidson College is
sending R. R. Jones as the representative of
the Delta Circle. |

At this convention many important mat-
ters will be brought up for consideration,
namely: the extension program and policy
during the coining year, the proposed changes
in the constitution, the petitions fer charters
from several colleges, and in addition there
will come up the reports of the different
delegates on the activities of their respective
circles.

The Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity is
a national.honorary society, composed of men
belonging to the Junior and Senior classes
in the schools where the circie is located.
The student membership embraces the lead-
ers in every field of college activity. It was
founded to fill the need existing on the
campus of bringing the faculty and students
into closer harmony with each other. The
meetings are mainly discussion groups be-
tween the faculty and students in which eve ry
Phase of student life is considered for the
Purpose of improving its morale and zencral
conditions,

MEETING OF TRUSTEES

Forty-seven Davidson trustess from
the Presbyteries of North Carolina,
Georgia and Florida and six from the
Alumni Association will assemble on

the 27th of February for their regular

mid-year meeting. On Thursday, the
28, Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., president
of the board of trustees, will call the
meeting to order.

The board will have before it at this
time several important matters Dertain-
ing both to the administration of the
college and to student affairs. These
include discussion of the remodeling
of Rumple Dormitory and the solution

of the fraternity house problem. Since
most of the members of the board are
men of affairs, their stay at Davidson
will be merely that necessary for the
carrying on of the business of:the col-- =
lege, the great majority of them teav-
ing before Friday night.

|
|

|
|

| scones

——|vidson by storm

The Wildkittens returned to their lair last | John Baker,
having seratched | the other first-nighters, applauded enough to

Rev, Robert (Bob) King, ‘97, who trip last week, winning from the Oak Ridge |

In the Oak Ridge game the Davidson |
Freshmen showed the dash and passing abil- |
of 35 to 23.” This was a game in= which |

proved their superiority, however, in the sec- |

Captain |
| Rhodes, center, of Trinity, doing the stel- |
He was a good hub |

The Wildkittens exhibited a similar brand |
' of basketball at Chapel Hill against the Blue esas
and White Fresh and lost by a score of 30)

Vthe council-will at that time <decide to create

|mirthful menu of song and story,
jlesque play, The Pot Boilers, proved a suc-
jeess from every standpoint, to both pro-
|

| tronic and vocal ability possessed hy the

Oak Ridge and State Queens left no doubt in the minds of all

Queens Dramatic
Performance Is
‘Howling Success

The merry maids from Queens took Da-
with their
A bur-

Friday night

jducers and consumers. The mixture of his-

|

Wildeats that they are the premier enter-
|tainers of this neck of the woods,

) The bald-head row, containing Red Laird,
Twist Matthews and a few of

make up for the rest of the large crowd
Which was by no means silent. Under the
sponsorship of the staff of the Quips and
Cranks, the financial proceeds were enough
to warrant financial from all
cerned,

A five-piece orchestra, The Frisky Vive,
sent forth its alluring strains upon the night
air to the syncopated patting of the Shiek’s
feet on the time-honored boards of Shearer
chapel. Solos and chorus features by the
singers proved the best heard here in some
time, Smilin’ Thru and Dream Daddy re-
ceived the most vociferous applause from
every After all said talked
about, this affair was most enjoyable, and
all students hope to see them before long,
}once more again,

smiles con-

one, is and

Red and Black Quint Noses Out
South Carolina, But Loses

Wilson’s Peace Plan Is

Praised by Dr. Goevernitz

Address by German Economist
Sheds Light on Present-Day
European Conditions

Professor Schulze Gogvernitz, of Frieburg
University, at Baden, Germany, spoke to a
large number of students and townspeople in
Shearer Hall last Tuesday night on the sub-
ject of the Versailles Treaty. Dr. T. W.
Lingle introduced the speaker with a few
remarks concerning the part that) Professor
Schulze had played and
playing in German affairs.

Goevernitz Wis

The speaker opened his lecture by saying
that he was a member of the Conservative
party in Germany which was opposed to the
Militaristic party and as such he had always
admired Woodrow Wilson and
him one of the world's greatest statesmen,
Thus, he said, it gave him great pleasure to
visit the college that Wilson had attended
in his youth.

considered

He then announced the subject of his lee
ture as Why the World Missed the Peace
That Wilson Planned, We hegan by saying
that no one was satisfied with the peace con-

Doctor Lingle Tells of
Phi Betta Kappa In
The Southern States

Eighteen of Ninety-Nine Chapters
Located in Southern States

Phi Beta Kappa, founded at William and
Mary College, December 5, 1776, the
oldest of all Greek letter fraternities in the
United States, and the model and inspiration
of all that have followed. For many decades
now it has stood primarily for scholarship,
and for friendship based on mental congen-
iality. It little in common at present
with modern Greek letter fraternities that
very largely for social purposes. — Its
secrets are so few in number ‘that they car

is

has

scarcely be said to possess any real. signifi-
cance, From the days‘of John Marshall and
Danicl Webster to the present hour, justices
of the supreme court, Presidents the
| United States, statesmen, scientists, and
scholars of the highest rank, have consid-
ered themselves honored in being elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

There are now 99 chapters of this ven-
erable fraternity in as many colleges and
universities, presumably the — institutions
ranking highest from the scholastic stand-
point. Of these 99, there are exactly 18
located in the 17 states from Delaware and
Missouri on the north to Florida and Texas
in the south. They are located in the fol-

ot

ditions existing at present and that nearly
every nation now feels that Wilson's plan of
peace would have been much better. Iengland
finds the great market of central Europe
destroyed and the balance of power, her
policy for a century, overthrown. France
fears constantly for her security, and, be-
cause of her singularity of population, finds
it most difficult to recuperate her losses,
both finaneial and) physical. The United
States is coming t6 view her policy of iso
lation as selfish and is slowly swinging back
to the ideals of Wilson.

Wilson's plans were fora peace without
victors, for a peace that would end war hy
removing its causes. The major points laid
down by him in the carly years of the war
were:

First, freedom of the seas in peace as well
as in war, This was the cause for the entry
of both Russia and the United States into
the war.

Second, equal rights for all nations, espe-
cially regarding traffic on the sea,
tion favoredby lowered tariff cither by oth-
er nations or by its own colonies.
Goevernitz pointed out that here was one of
the direct causes of the war, Germany re-
sented the favor shown by Moroccan mar-

Professor

(Continued on page 5)

FRESHMAN DEBATE

Last Wednesday, February 20th,

lowing colleges and universities: Johns Hop-
kins and Goucher, in Maryland; at William)
and Mary, University pf Virginia, Wash-
ington and Lee, and Randolph-Macon in|
Lynchburg (with a branch chapter at Ash- |
land) in Virginia; at the University, Trinity, |
jand Davidson, in North Carolina; at Van- |
}derbilt, in Tennessee; at the State Univer- |
sity and Washington University, in Mis- |
souri; at Tulane University, in Louisiana; |
at the State Universities of West Virginia, |
Georgia, Alabama, Oklahoma, and Texas. |
The following States have no chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa: Delaware, South Carolina, |
Florida, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Arkan- |
sas,

No more new chapters will be created un-
til the next triennial meeting of the National
Council of the United Chapters of Phi Beta
Kappa, which will be held in September,
1925. The writer risks the prediction that

two or three new chapters at colleges within
the bounds of these 17 states—colleges that

(Continued on page 5)

marked the try-outs for the Fresh
Triangular Debate.
discussion was, Resolved, That the
Philippine Islands should. be given
their immediate and complete inde-
pendence, The preliminaries were held
in the Eu. Hall. The following men
entered the try-outs: L.. D. Wharton,
A. C. Slaymaker, H. M. Austin, W.
T. Covington, Q. C. Rice, C. W. Wil-
liams, D. H. Stewart, J: P. Gladney,
Landon Williams, T. E. Gregg, L. M.
McCutchen, D. M. Currie, Malcolm
McQueen, Harllee Branch, W. S.
Woods, Ray Erwin.

The six winners will be formed into
two teams, and on April 11th these
two picked teams will debate the
Carolina and Wake Forest Freshmen.
Davidson's affirmative team will stay
here and meet Carolina. Wake For- -
est's affirmative team will meet .Da-
vidson’s negative at Wake Forest on
the same night.

The subject for

Next Two Contests

_Wake Forest Wins From Younger’s
Men in Fiercely Fought Battle
on Home Floor

McCONNELL PLAYS WELL
Charlotte “Y” Takes Wildcats into
Camp for Second Time During
Season

The Davidson quintet, after showing a
flashy brand of basketball ino a win’ over
South Carolina last’ Wednesday night, lock-
ed horns with the Wake Forest: contenders
the following night, and were defeated. On
Monday night the Wildeats were again de-
feated by the Charlotte and
immediately after left for their only road

aggregation,

trip of the season,
South Carolina Game

The Wildeats unleashed the most powerful
attack so far exhibited hy them, on February
13th, outplaying the University of South
Carolina 35 to 29, and winning their second
home game of the week. Both teams were
jin form and the play was fast and furious
{throughout. The guarding was excellent
and both teams elected to pass and dribble in
past the first defense attempting. to get close
to the basket. Few long shots were tried
though some such shots hit the mark un-
erringly, The work of the stationary guards
showed up well, breaking up many close-in
passes,

For Davidson, Staley and Laird were in
the thick of the play every moment and con-
tributed 23) points between them. Nappy
Davis showed up better at center than in any
game far, well McConnell, who
played the whole game in fine style as run-
Boggs was the ever-dependable
His dribbling, at
the court, hard

so as as
ning guard.
stationary guard,
for the leneth of
breaks up.

Swink, center for S.C.
ward, Wright, were the outstanding point-
gatherers the with MeSwain
and Abrams steady on the defense. The
(Continued on page 6)

State Y.M. C A. Council

ae .
| Discusses “Y’” Problems

times
Was 10

and the fast

for visitors,

No na- |

|Men From Several State Colleges
Hold Two-Day Conference in
Charlotte

The annual meeting of the State Y. M. C.
1A. was held in Charlotte on Thursday and
, Friday of last week. Many things of im-
portance callege life discussed.
There were more than a hundred delegates
present of and several
‘colleges, and many experts in “Y" work made
addresses and led the discussions.

The proposition of most interest to stu-
dents was that to reorganize the state stu-
| dent council. This matter was brought up
lin a special student conference held after
the regular sessions on Friday afternoon,
and attended by some 17 represéntatives from
| State College, 14 from Davidson, 12 from
| Carolina, four from Trinity, and four from
Biddle University. This conference was led
jby J. W. Bergthold, Soythern student sec-
retary. Talks’ were made by Dr. A. G. Stu-
der, general secretary of the Detroit rUVillse
J. T. Ferperman, state boys’ work secretary,
and by E. S. King, secretary of the State
College “Y.” Action on the state council
was left to a committee which will bring it
up at the Blue Ridge Conference during June
17th-26th. The plan is that a state student
council shall be organized which will act as
a clearing house for alt business, movements,
or projects that concern ail the college “Y’s”
in the state, and help the different college
organizations to keep in closer contact with

(Continued on page 7) !

to were

from. scores towns

