THE PAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

‘Carolina Netmen Appear Polity Club Links With
On Courts Here Saturday Southern Organization

May Decide Superiority of Two

| GREENSBORO VISITED BY

DAVIDSON DEPUTATION
D. B. Wharton and A. H. Hollingsworth
conducted the regular night services at
— | the Church by the Side of the Road, Rev.
Is Charter Member of Association— | Face i ates erga church in
H H | Gsreensboro, N. C., last Sunday.
ibis fi Lt let Their text dealt with “Life Dedica-
uae eae |tion.” The appeal was directed chiefly
At its final session for the year. on last; to the young people of the congregation
Friday night the Davidson chapter of the| but there were many older folks present
| International Relations Clubs ratified the) too. Although the weather was very un-
The Wildcat has demonstrated its ability constitution of the Southern Students’ Asso- | tavorable a good number turned out to
‘against Carolina, playing her to a tie on ciation on International Relations, thereby | hear the Davidson men,
Carolina courts on May 5. To win, David- | automatically becoming a charter member of , great need for men and women to enter

json must fight, for on Carolina’s team is the association. Christian service at the present time
while Hollingsworth followed with an

Solomon, who was runner-up in the state} This

Teams—Even So Far

On Saturday Davidson again tackles Caro- |
lina, This time the contest will be in tennis
and Davidson's chances are more than equal
in the matches which are to come.

new association was formally in-

Arriving at Lee Hall, the Central Building of the Blue Ridge Confer-
ence Ground—Headquarters of the Southern Student Conference, |
Blue Ridge, June 17-26, 1924

| finals, along with Smith, Fuller and Whit- |
faker, all of whom are real tennis players. |
To oppose these men Davidson presents three |
men who have taken Carolina’s measure in
| the singles and on the home court she should
be able to win one of the doubles, there
sending Carolina back in defeat.
Price and Staley, in their doubles with the
| Winston-Salem pair, went down in defeut

by

Blue Ridge Offers
' Many Attractions
To Its Visitors

Situated in the picturesque mountains of
Western North Carolina, within sight and

hiking distance of some of the world's most
famous scenery, the Blue Ridge Association
grounds offer an ideal location for the annual
Southern Students’ Conference of the Y. M.
C. A. The rough, rugged ‘mountains, the
beautiful valleys, the glorious sunsets, the
deep solitudes of the towering forests, the
clear streams of icy water and misty falls,
all combine to make this an ideal environment
for a gathering of hundreds of young people,
from three-score Southern colleges, students
seeking God in the great out-of-doors.
Every. day hikes and mountain climbs are
organized; parties set out to reach the sum-
mit of Mount Mitchell, the highest peak east
of the Rockies; others to Klingman'’s Dome,
nearly as high; Chimney Rock, a great freak
of nature rises within the vicinity. Often
parties go out just as dusk is falling, climb
some peak, build a camp fire and after sev-
eral hours of talk, wrap up in blankets for
a night beneath the skies, rising in the morn-
ing for a sight of the sun emerging from
behind the distant hills. Added to these
grandeurs is the variety and tpye of the flora
—a challenge to every lover of nature,
Notwithstanding this wonderful array of
naturally attractive recreational advantages,
the conference has secured the services of a

after playing brilliant tennis, winning 19
| games and losing 21. If they can continue
e e
this good work on Saturday the chances are
Four Winds of ee, Carolina will lose at least one of the
e
doubles matches.
Catch Davidson tu ents This is to be the last chance at Carolina
° A ithis year and it is up to the student body to
Cross-Country Trips—Hike Into Haateianieaan
Canada and Voyages Planned |

(Sa |
Dr. Lingle’s tour of Europe, and several | EARLY FOOTBALL PRACTICE
other trips this summer will scatter Davidson | STARTS FIRST SEPTEMBER
men over quite a large area, Besides these, | ——
there are several men that are going to Eu- |
rope by various means, largely by positions
on ships.

Early football practice will begin next
fall on September 1, with about 40 men to
get down to work and make a real Wildcat

To date Dr. Lingle has four men from squad. Both coaches will be here to whip
Davidson who are certain of making the trip, them into shape. Coach Monk predicts a
This party will leave New York some time | good workout and a successful season; the
wbout the middle of June and will spend the , Prospects more than doubles that of last fall
entire summer in touring the continent. The as there were two letter men back for the
men going on this trip are A. T. Rowe, J. &./ line this year, while next fall there will be
Millner, C. W. Williams, and FE. E. Lingle. six letter men to fight for the tackle and

There are two trips being planned for the guard positions, beside new material. Cap-
cross-continent tour this year. One party tain Davis and Baker will be here to uphold
will be made up of J. I. Smith, J. W. Andev- the ends. With the exception of Shepherd
son, J. H. Patton, and R. W. Oeland. They | the whole back field is expected back.

plan to leave Chattanooga on Friday, June | t

Regular workout will be begun at the star
13, in a Ford, and follow the southern route. | and the squads will have several scrimmages
Their trip will take them through Atlanta, before school opens. With the new field in
Louisiana, Dallas, into Mexico for a short shape there will be ample room for the teams
distance, and to California on the outward | to go through thorough practice. To add io
trip. After visiting Oregon, Washington, | the comfort of the men the two top floors
and going over to Vancouver, B. C., they of East have been secured for football men
will return via Salt Lake City, Denver, only, which will increase the morale of the
Omaha, Kansas City, and St. Louis. ! team,

J. B. Hunter and J. W. DeArmon are also) The men who are expected up for carly
planning somewhat the trip. Both practice are: Hendrix, Black, Wells, Sapp,
parties are going in Fords and plan to get Sappenfield, Covington, Hunt, Buck, Leg-
back to the East about the end of August.! gette, Allen, Goodykoontz, Johnston, Farrell,
There are other parties that are talking plans Woodham, for back field; Captain Davis,
but as yet they have come to nothing definite. Baker, Cox, O'Neal, Crayton, Covington,

same

augurated at a conference recently held in
| Greenville, S. C., at which the leading col-
| leges and universities of the South were rep-

appeal to the young people to accept the
challenge offered by their Lord. Lacy
McAlister, '20, presided over the meeting.

W. M. Heston and Rk. L. Price have their

coach from one of the Southern colleges to

plan and direct all athletic contests and to in-!

sure the best use of every one’s time along
this line. Tournaments are held in tennis.
basketball and baseball. A swimming meet
is held, along with a wrestling meet and a
track meet. All contests are intercollegiate
and the teams are made up to represent the
colleges from which the students come. De-
spite the small delegation from Davidson
last year, the Red and Black teams showed
up well, with the tennis team reaching the
semi-finals and Norman Patterson winning
out in the middle-weight wrestling and almost
throwing the veteran Poindexter in the
heavier class. The entire afternoon, from
2:30 till. supper, is given over to athletics,
but often the tennis courts and swimming
pool is alive with young people when the
sun is scarcely up.

“The, popularity of the after-supper half-
hour sohg-fest last year assures its having a
permanent place on the program again this
year.” At this time all the students gather
for a “College Sing” and the whole place is
enlivened with college songs from all over
the South.

Dramatics are very popular and the girls
from the Southern colleges usually put on
some play, while the boys entertain with a
black-face minstrel.

If one should go to Blue Ridge for fun,
and pleasure, and athletics, he would get all
he wants, but there are many other advant-
ages of great importance in the spiritual de-
velopment as well as in the physical
development.

Miss Elizabeth Grey, who at present is
in training for a nurse, at Johns Hopkins
Hospital of New York, will spend a few
days with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W.
R. Grey. Miss Grey expects to graduate
in the near future.

Dr. F. P. Price, father of Harry Price,
will bein Davidson the first of next
week. Dr. Price is one of the leading
missionaries of the Southern Presbyte-
ria Church in China.

plans made for a hoboing trip to Canada and

back this summer. Leaving Davidson im-

burg, Erie, and to the Niagara Falls. From
thence they go to New York and back prob-
ably to Martinstown, Maryland, via Phita-
delphia. This trip will take about a month
and will be done entirely by “bumming”
rides,

E,
Europe, going right after commencement.
He has a position on a ship.

S. Faison is also expecting to go to

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY MEN
HAVE MUCH TALK AND EATS

On Friday night, may 9, the Gamma
Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held
its annual open meeting in its hall in the
Chemical building. To this meeting were
invited those students of chemistry who
have shown most interest in that sub-
ject.

The program was of great interest to
all chemistry students. After the close
of the regular business meeting Prof. O.
J. Thies, Jr., gave a talk on the original
research work that he is doing toward a
M.A. degree at Cornell.

Next some facts were given by mem-
bers of the fraternity concerning David-
son graduates that have made successes
in Chemistry since leaving here.

F. C. Thames then spoke on the work
that he has done during the past year
toward his M.A. degree. Thames has
been attempting to isolate the curative
compound of paper oil.

The product derived from coal were
then discussed by J. M. Williams, who
showed the great number of compounds
that may be obtained from this unex-
pected source.

The last number on the program was a
most interesting talk by Br. H. B. Ar-
buckle, who gave an account of the work
he had done that led to his establish-
ment of the atomic weight of the metal

Cadmium while doing research work at

Pinkney, Bohannon, for end; Boggs, Sum-
mers, Potts, Anderson, Patterson, Linda-|
mood, Lincoln, Varnedoe, Laird, Briggs, |

|mediately after commencement, they will go Vance, McAlpin, Brand, Minter, Hudgin, |
jto Washington, then cut off towards Pitts-| Deck, Lewis, Christian, McAulay, Green, |

Mitchell, for line.

Relatives of Davidson’s
FarAwayLadsCome Home

Rice, McIlwaine, Price and White
Will See Parents and Others

Several of the missionaries’ sons who
are now at Davidson College will have
| some members of their family with them
|this summer. Henry White, W. B. Rice,
and the McIlwaine brothers will have
their parents over here this summer and
Harry Price’s father is already in this
| country.
| Rev. P. F. Price, of China who was on
the hill last Monday and Tuesday has
‘come over to be present at the General
Assembly and will be in America until
August.

Rey. W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, of Japan,
brother of the MclIlwaine’s now at
Davidson has also returned to attend
‘the General Assembly and will be at
Davidson this coming commencement and
will return to Japan in July.

Rey. H. W. White and family, of China,
;are now in America on furlough and
; will be here at commencement. From
|here they will go to Montreat for the
| summer.
| Mrs. M. B. Rice will arrive in America
jfrom China July 1 and will spend the
remainder of the summer at Montreat.
| Dr. and Mrs. W. B. McIlwaine will also
jarrive on July 1 from Japan and will go
to Montreat for the remainder of the
summer.

Johns Hopkins University for his Ph.D.
degree.

After partaking of a most enjoyable
feed the meeting adjourned.

The only other deputation Sunday was
sent to Shearer Chapel. Joe Garrison
managed this one.

|resented, The originators of the association
| stated as its prime purpose: “To more
|closely unite those Southern students who
| were vitally interested in International Re- |
jlations.” J. H. Davis and J. L. McLean
| represented the local club. The conference

LUXENBERG CLOTHES

| signally honored Mr. Davis and his college Talk No. 4
| when it adopted bodily as the regular con-
| stitution for the new association the tenta- QUESTIONS

| tive constitution which he presented.

| The local club is rated among the strong -
i}

}est and most aggressive in the entire South.
To the college itself it has rendered valuable
service in presenting gratis to the student
body at frequent intervals lecturers nationally
noted as keen students of international af-
fairs,

It may seem amusing, but new ac-
quaintances ask us questions like
these:

“Will these suits shrink?”
‘Are they all wool?”

“Will the color run?”
“How can you fellows sell

a good suit for $37.50 when
we.have to pay $60 to $70 for
this grade elsewhere?”’

RAWSON REPORTS ABBEVILLE

Why shouldn’t we be able to give
TO PILOT LEAGUE TEAM

a good suit for the price, when
we sell on acash basis only, with-
out any charge accounts, no del-
iveries, no bad debts, or sundry
expenses?

Coach Rawson, the able mentor of the |
| Wildkittens, left last week for Abbeville, |
|S. C., where he will act as player-manager.
| With several years of experience behind him
{in the leagues in this part of the country, |
| Rawson will be ably suited for piloting this |
|team. He is also a player of no mean abil-
jity, and will in all probability hold down the
| receiving end of the battery.

Flake Laird, Davidson's mainstay in
| pitching for the past season, is also going to
| the South Carolina town. Besides taking
|his share of the pitching, he will act as gen-
jeral utility man, a position that he will fill
very well. Laird does not report until after
commencement.

(No. 4 of a series of talks with
tips for men who dress well.)

To take care ofour growing trade, we have
been compelled to cpen branches at

863 Broad Street
Newark, N. J.

Home sfore, as always,

841 Broadway
New York City

NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dyeing Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best

8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

Pressing

|

A Class Distinction

The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams
Shaving Cream and of Williams only.
You'll notice three things about Williams
every time you shave. 1. Williams lather
| is heavier and holds the moisture in against

the beard. Quicker and more thorough
softening takes place. 2. Williams lather lubri-
cates your skin — your razor actually seems to
“glide” the hairs off. 3. Williams lather leaves
the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter
how frequently you shave, your face stays cool,
smooth and comfortable.

You'll enjoy every shave with Williams. It is
a pure, natural-white cream without any artificial
coloring whatsoever.

Williams
Shaving Cream

The Williams Hinge-
Cap is “on even when
it’s off.” You can’t
lose it, and the tube
hangs up!

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
