THE DAVIE SONIAN

EMORY TRINITY
AT AT
QUEENS DURHAM
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
— SST =
Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 3, 1924 No. 24

Monk Younger’s Tossers Win Oak Ridge Series

Dr. Vander Meulen Makes

“Y” Service Impressive

Discusses Life Work and Problems|

—Touching Man‘s Relation to His
Fellowman and God

BUCK CURRIE LEADS
Quartette Gives Selection—Two

Other Men of the Hill From
Louisville Seminary

The Y. M.-C. A. vesper service of Sun-
day evening, March 30th, was in charge of
a gospel team sent out from the Louisville
Theological Seminary. Mr. Williams, local
secretary, introduced an old Davidson man,
Buck Currie, who last year was the “Y”
secretary at Davidson, and the remainder of
the meeting was put in his charge. A notable
item upon the musical program was a song
by the quartet, composed of Currie, McCain,
Vic Brown, and Elkins, all of whom were
Buck’s last year’s mates in many beautiful
quartet songs appearing upon the “Y” pro-
grams,

; Currie, in a short account, told the history
of the acquaintance of Dr. Vander Meulen,
the principal speaker of the evening, with
the Davidson student body. He also called
upon Tink Taylor, a Davidson alumnus and
a member of the gospel team, who stood up
for the inspection of the audience. Frank
Caldwell, the third member of the team, was
not present at this time, but later entered
the meeting.

Launching into his talk of the evening, Dr.
Vander Meulen took as his text a passage
from John 1:23: “He said, I am the voice
of one crying in the wilderness, make straight
the way of the Lord, as said the prophet
Isaiah.” His theme was a discussion of a
life’s work, in the development of which he
said that two questions were facing young
people today. The ‘first is, “Do you know
yourself ;” the second, “What is your ac-
count of yourself?” John knew their an-
swers as far as his own life was concerned,
and he was able to say who he was and what
he was about, in answer to the questions of
those attracted by his crude actions. Some
men, he said, do not try to answer such
questions. Further, “some men live life like
it were a romance of one world, but it turns
out to be a short comedy in this world, and a
long tragedy in the hereafter world. A man
must find out what he is before he makes a

(Continued on page 5)

Week-End Party Promises
Hilarious Time For All

Reception for Visitors in Fraternity
Halls—Baseball Game and Movies
Are Features

Friday, Saturday and Sunday of this week
mark the first Non-Fraternity Week-End
ever attempted by the students of Davidson
College. Sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic
Council, this occasion so promises of success
that indications are that it will be made a
permanent institution on the Hill. Both the
fraternity men and those unconnected with
fraternities are doing everything to work
with the Council for the success of the
event. j

Plans have been made to entertain about
a hundred girls on the Hill this week-end,
‘the fraternities throwing open their halls to
the non-fraternity men and their guests dur-
ing the entire three days. All non-faternity
men will have open use of the halls of their
hosts. All faculty rules governing fraterni-
ties will be enforced throughout the occasion.

(Continued on page 6)

Johnson C. Smith
Quint Will Sing
For Davidsonian

One of the most unique and interest-
ing entertainments afforded the student
boy this term will be the concert given
by the Johnston C. Smith Quintet and
Orchestra in Shearer Hall, Friday night,
immediately following the Spanish de-
bate.

These colored singers, already popular
with Davidson audiences, have promised
a program which will be interesting as
well as instructive to every student. The
old negro spirituals which are passing
away with the old traditions and lore of
plantation life will be presented by these
vocal artists. They have had a long
period of preparation and study of this
particular type of song, and there is no
organization in the country more capable
of depicting the spiritualistic music of
the “darkey.”

The entertainment will not be confined
to this type altogether, however. <A
variety of popular and secular numbers
will be presented. The orchestra, well
remembered from their concert, last fall,
will be in their glory for the occasion.

It was with difficulty that the pro-

(Continued on page 3)

Spanish Debate Reature
Of Year’s Forensic Art

First Debate in Foreign Language
to be Held in the Carolinas—
Three Prominent Judges

At 8:00 o'clock Friday, April 4th, in
Shearer Hall, there will be a Spanish de-
bate between Davidson and the University of
North Carolina. As far as is known at Da-
vidson, this will be the first intercollegiate
debate ever held in a foreign language in
the United States. The question is: Re-
solved, That Spain should grant autonomy
to Cataloria. Davidson has the affirmative
side and will be represented by P. F. Causey,
A. T. Rowe, Jr., and J. B. Gallant. Each
speaker will be allowed ten minutes, and
there will be only one rebuttal of three min-
utes for each side. Causey, the first speaker,
will have the rebuttal for Davidson.

The question is one that has Spain all
upset at the present time. Catalonia is
strongly industrial and objects to rule from
Madrid. The Catalonians are of a different
race and speak a different language from
the Spaniards, so the situation is a very
disagreeable one. On the solution of this

(Continued on page 5)

DAVIDSON STAFF

C. M. S. McIlwaine, newly-elected
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, an-

nounces the appointment of the follow- $ |
ing staff: |
Business Manager----K. S. McAlpin
Managing Editor C.F. Smith e,
Asst. Man'g. Editor---.W. £. Milton 8!

Asst. Man’g. Editor C. ¥, Monk |

f Athletic Editor_....--._J. M. Selser
Peanut Parcher Editor-A. F. Simpson
Associate Editor_____---__ T. A. Lake

* Associate Editor________ B. Price
H. L. Shaw
G. D. Rogers

Circulation Manager---. A. Thompson

Associate Editor

Alunini Editor

| Lingle, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Mr. F. L. Jack- |

Two Seniors, Eight Jun- Piggy Martin
iors Extended Bids By | Arranges For
Omicron Delta Kappa’ Junior Week

D. J. Chipman, Annual Editor and) Plans are practically completed for Junior |

E. K. Regen, Head of Court of
Control Chosen

LEADERS IN ACTIVITIES committee with him.
baseball games, Dramatic Club performances,
promenades, girls and more girls. A Pathe
, News comeraman will be on the campus to
shoot scenes during the festivities.

Beall, Boggs, Briggs, Covington,
Hendrix, Lake, McIlwaine, and
Price are Juniors

| The Junior Speaking proper will take place
{in Shearer Hall, Friday night, April 18th.
The preliminaries for these speeches will be

During the past week Omicron Delta
Kappa has extended invitations to eight
men in the Junior Class and to two men
in the present Senior Class. The list in-| | a rmemere : ;
cludes D. J. Chipman, '24; E. M. Regen, | W¢ck: and those winning in each society will
24, and M. S. Beall, R. E. Boggs, J. R. | Speak on the 18th. Following these speeches,
Briggs, J. M. C. Covington, J. P. Hen. | the GleesClub will give a performance,
drix, J. A. Lake, C. M. S. McIlwaine, and |“ :
H. B. Price, of the class of '25. [club this season.

Each ofl thesonmen hascattained:dis-| Junior Week will start with a movie at
tinction in some phase of campus activ- | the college gym’on Wednesday night. Most
ity and has well merited the honor that of the “Fire” will arrive Thursday. Their
las been bestowed him, But in addition | #!tival will be celebrated by the presenta-
to any achievement that any “one of tion of three plays, by the Dramatic Club,
them might have accomplished they have! Which is supervised by Prof. E. J. Erwin,
shown that not only are they leaders, is under the leadership of Ted Jones.
perhaps, in certain lines of endeavor but | (Continued on page 5)
that they have rounded out their college| = - .
life. In their studies’ they have made a ‘s
creditable showing and they are “ot | Al Lake Elected Editor
backward in mixing with the men, not)
only of their class, but of every class on|
the campus. They are men of varied)

talents and a versatile turn of mind. | Rising Senior Class Honors This
Every year Omicron Delta Kappa in-| Year’s Literary Editor, T. S.

vités into its membership students who, Brown, Business Manager
have served well or who are destined to ——

serve in positions with which they are; At a recent election held by the staff of
entrusted. Judging from the past years | Quips and Cranks, the editor-in-chief elected
no set of strict qualifications can be to| was J. A. Lake, of the rising Senior class.
determine the membership of this body, | The newly-elected editor-in-chief is admirably

yet it can be seen that its personnel is fitted for the position which has been be-|

made up of men of influence. stowed upon him, as he has been associated
Let credit be given where credit is due! with the Annual for three years in different
and to D. J. Chipman is due a great deal | capacitics. As literary editor for the present
of the success of the 1924 Quips and year he has contributed much to the success
Cranks,. Regen as head of the Court of!of the forthcoming volume of Quips and
Control has proved that that body can| Cranks. Being so intimately associated with
adequately control the freshman class.|the Annual, he will make a tremendous suc-
Some acknowledgement of the services |cesg of next year’s Quips and Cranks, judg-
they have rendered should be made be-|ing from past accomplishments.
fore they leave in June. At the same time T. B. Brown was clected
To enumerate further on the Juniors|as business manager for next year. He has
initiated would be more or less of .a|also had much experience in the past on the
prophecy, yet these men have gained the| staff of the Quips and Cranks. These two
confidence of their fellow students in the! offices were the only ones filled by the Quips
three years they have been on the hill | and Cranks elections, as the others are all
to the extent that they have been re- filled by the editor-in-chief and the business
quested to handle the helms of many of ; manager, and these two men have not ap-
the most important branches of campus} pointed the other members of the staff.
activity next year.

The members at present of the David-
son College Circle of Omicron Delta
Kappa include: Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr.
M. E. Sentelle, Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. J. M.
McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards, D. T. W.

Y. M. C. A. CABINET

Harry Price, president of the Y. M.
C. A., announces the following cabinet
for next year:

son, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Mr. W. L. Personal Work R. W. Ocland

Younger, W. Z. Bradford, A. .M. Hill- “Y" Meetings----------A. M. Martin
house, E. S. Faison, E. E. Boushee, J. 1} Deputations---------- D. B. Wharton
Smith, L. D. Elkins, J. R. Walker, W. T. Entertainment._.-----_--- M. S. Beall
Jones, W. F. Gallaway, W. M. Heston, C. Selfshelpssse20 50222 = T. F. Staley

M. Davis, R. R. Jones. | Handbook-------------C. S. Furches
(a |$ Mission Fund_----------- J. R. Briggs
INFIRMARY INMATES je Sunday Schools_- -A. M. Moffett

1$ Community Work-------- L. B. Gibbs

Inmates of the infirmary during the | Bible Study----------- - W. C, Ramsey
past week were: J. H. Kimbrough, S. A.| Mission Study_----------- J. D. Laws

Attendance and Records

A. H. Hollingsworth
Pending
Pending

Alford, John Crinkley, O. M. Farns-|
worth, R. F. Thompson, E. L. Morrison,
Ted Jones, W. B. Mattison, W. F. Gal-
laway, Roy Hunter, Vardell Williamson,
M. M. Hunter.

Boys: Worksiscee 2 aes
Morning Watch

Speaking, which is only two weeks off. “The |
best ever” is the motto of the Junior Week |
Chairman, Piggy Martin, and those on the |
The week will be in- |
ltermingled with a grand riot of track meets, |

held Tuesday and Thursday nights of this |

hich will eclipse all others given by the

Of Next Year’s Annual

First Contest Results
In Eleven-Inning Battle
Boushee and Laird Twirl for David-

son—Game Slow and Errors
Frequently Made

DAVIDSON WINS SECOND

Potts and McPherson Were on
Mound for Wildcats—Alford
Poles Out First Homer

Coach Younger’s diamond squad christen-
ed the new Richardson baseball field last
| Friday afternoon hy battling Oak Ridge
jthrough 11 innings to a tie of Sand 5. The
ifield was slow, and rain threatened to stop
the game in the first few imnings.

The hitting was scattered, each side net-

ting seven good ones, honors being equally
divided between Smith and Captain Boushee,
| Wildeat southpaw.
Davidson started the scoring in the second
jinning, after both sides had drawn a cipher
jin the initial inning. With two men down,
/Boushee made first sack on Jones’ error,
}went to second and third on infield errors,
hand scored when Covington singled.

Oak Ridge came back in the third and
,scored three tallies with only one hit. Smith
was on first by Sappenfield’s error, © Dean
sacrificed, Tomko took a base on balls, and
Clayton brought in two runs by a long single
jto right field, which Vance fumbled,  Clay-
ton scored on Johnson's sacrifice fly.

In the same inning Davidson duplicated
lwith one hit and three runs. Kelly Johnson
‘took his base on balls, lingered on the paths
| while two men were put out, and advanced
\to third when Marrow’s infield offering was
muffed by Dean, Johnny Smith then stepped
up and smashed a three-bagger over the
‘center fielders’ head, scoring Johnson and
, Marrow. Smith tallied when Frank Alford
grounded one to Smith and the latter failed
jto handle it.

Smith tied the score again for Oak Ridge
in the fifth period, making the circuit on
‘two errors and a sacrifice to the outfield.

In the eighth Davidson nosed ahead again
by one run, Vance’s single scoring Marrow.
In the ninth, however, Oak Ridge netted
a double by Dean, who scored on a bad
throw' to the home plate.

The two extra innings were largely
pitchers’ duel between Smith arid Laird.
“Red” Laird went in at the beginning of

(Continued on page 6)

Julian Briggs President
Of Next Year’s Seniors

Popular Member of Class of ’25 is
Elected at Recent Meeting—A.

In the election held during the past week
in which officers of the Senior class for next
year were clected, the following men were
chosen: Julian R. Briggs, president; A. M.
‘Martin, vice-president, and W. M. Gracey,
secretary and treasurer. Members of the
Student Council elected were Bub Ocland,
Ted Covington, Mac Beall, Jim Patton and
Chong McIlwaine. Harry B. Price and W.
W. Purdy were respectively re-elected his-
jtorian and poet.

The class has been efficiently led during
| the past year by C. M. S. Mellwaine, presi-
dent; R. W. Oeland, vice-president, and A.
W. McAllister, secretary and treasurer.
| The new officers will take office the latter
part of the month, They are a group who
should prove competent in directing the in-
lterests of the class of ‘25 during their final

FU

YOUTH-JOLLITY-SPEA

ye ee

[KING
