THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 2, 1924

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern

Rates
$1.00 and £2.00

5th and College Streets
Charlotte

Feeds! Feeds!
Feeds!

Let Me Supply Your Feeds

H. M. Johnston

Phone 20

Porter—"This train goes to Syracuse
all points west.”

Old Lady—"Well,

I want to go to Buifalo,

jand T don't care which way it points.”

Ike Sellars says that one day Goat Lewis

| stuck his fingers in the family horse's mouth

to see how many teeth it had: then the horse

closed its mouth to see how many fingers
Goat had.

“TE don't care much for a dark horse,”
gargled Bill Glenn, “but Uni strong for the

WRIGLEYS

After every =)

A pleasant
end agreeable
sweet and a
l-a-s-t-i-n-g
benefit as

Makes the
mext cigar
taste better.

Sealed in
its Purity

Package

WRIGLEY S

2 SPEARMINT
ener i <1 GUM 7 =

When in Ch«rlotte take your
meals at the

S&W Cafeteria

ERVICE
ATISFACTION

That’s what we give

Cleaning
and

Pressing

Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers
National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

$$

4% paid on Savings Accounts
and Certificates of
Deposit

Scofield Tea Room: |)
- Home Cooking |

|

Good Eats All the Time;

Wanted to be

Checking Accounts Invited ||,

white mule.”

‘locter
vaccinated where

nid said she

it

A flapper went to a
wouldn't

and!

“Ever hear the of the Golden

Fleece ?”
“No, do they bite?”

story

One of well-known professors
playing his first game of golf. fle
mightily and happened to drive the ball about
half a mile.

“Now where
citedly,

our Wits

do Torun?” he velled ex-

Our Latest Song Hit
Hobo's | Mother's | Lament,”
Is My Wandering Willie

“The
“Where

Tonight.”

Soph—I heard Ben Franklin complain-

‘ing the other day that he had lost his

appetite.

fa cloud,

j yelled to him to come get on his rubbers, so
| Ben had to drop the key and run,

fof the wire,
‘up like
sWung |

Ben Franklin Benefactor
of the Davidson Students

Efforts of Great Statesman and In-
ventor Combine to Illumine

Study Halls

hundred Ben
Franklin braved the elements on a dark and
stormy night, put on his yellow slicker and

©. T. C. cap and waded. out into the

Some several years age

R.

Ride in Buicks and
Hudsons

Attractive Rates for Long
or Short Trips

See

BEN BEAL

PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

His idea of a good time was to fly
and it didn’t matter whether it was

storm,
a kite

rainy or not; old Ben had to have a good
time. Tying his Phi Beta key to the end of
the string he gradually let the kite go higher
and higher until it stopped in the middle of
staged a Dempsey-Willard with) a
bolt of lightning, and Ben, on the other end
received a shock and the key lit
a crown of glory,

“Whatll 1 Do?”

The spaks were
playing, when Ben's wife
While his
feet were soaking in hot mustard water, Ben
Was thinking. Next morning he told Thomas
Alva what he had discovered. ‘Tom put
old hairpin in bottle full of
pulled all the and put some of Ben's
electricity in first cleetric light
Was invented,

an
an empty air,
air out
and thus the
in

And now let us see what effect these

ventions are to have on future generations.

AM institutions of higher learning were soon

The
Raleigh Cafe

Always has something good
for the Davidson Boys.
It isa pleasure to
serve those high
tone fellows

aris

221 West Trade St.

Manhattan Shirts

[oer

The Globe Clothing Co:

DAVIDSON

We are receiving daily
shipments of

FALL AND WINTER CLOTHES

Latest Styles

Selz Six $ Shoes

Db soossescscsesssssassscssssssseccn.

Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos
and Pianola
Reproducing

Pianos
A)

Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

show. He gave it to her with a spoon. Fresh—Yec, Ben has lost his and found equipped with these powerful new lights and d
pasture a horse's. thus in the carly part of the 20th century
iebmulkisssnour teats nwiuasweutlmet Davidson was completely outfitted with the
ities Mertens eee eee It has been told around the campus that new dark chasers, “A wonderful system, it F ll h (C 1
ae Neale wes: STs He! We last Monday a certain professor had a hat will last for years.” was what was said at OlOW t S rOWwCc
Pip oul te BAS DUD SS a . Ube UR UTE cit royal in his class room, and the seo was first, and it fier With ne repairs up until the 1 > ay
He Ca flowed on. Can ttathing ston 29 to O in favor of said professor, He did ny The present cane like those of Abide by the Rules
A Me herged. f ; ; all the shooting. bygone days, is composed of two minor sys of the Majority
“Nothing,” she replied. “ies hay fever, Se eer Retires :
but go on with the treatment.” AE the stiesat atu DT ; ‘ of Davidson
| A certain professor called upon Wiek Phe direet system is very efficient. Simply
5 Black in class the other day, and then Upon Press the button, wait five minutes, then eall Men
Norwood “Sam, you musust marry that Miss White, and when he had received the the commissary to turn on the lights. “They
girl. Why, everybody in tow 1 isisses her.’ opinions of both members of the class, he Will come on presently, Aha.” you sity, and i
BUNDEEE “Why should 1 kick? This said, “Now, we have the Black and White settle down to your Cosmopolitan, Just as
town ain't so big.” oft SE you arrive at the hottest part, the S0-watt
_ pias Mazda throws a one-hoss shay stunt and im
Tom Baker—" Did you know tt there Believe It Or Not mediately il chorus ol “Light,” “Go te
are four rows on the Hill this year ? : thunder, West.” and other choice phrases fill Cy
“Conductor” Briges—"VIl bite. Whe are aan ae Sellars, ee i rae the air. In the olden days the boys were J O H N S O N S
they ?” bol) ONKOL Get) Ce NUN one such jokers. “They merely laughed and yell
Tomeat—" Alvin Rowe, Carter Rewe, Dor Stud Sellars—"The Rocky Mountains. ed: Tmt wits Moses when the Tights BARBER SHOP
mitory Row, and Jethro.” : ie SARS tad: ; 6 went out?” then dit a candle and) resumed Two Doors Below Book Store
aca Charlig’s Battle Cry "Go get em, Wild iit studies ¢Benpus do (tuelts
Charlie says: “It's tough to pay 50 cents Sats. The dircet system cant hold a candle to
for steak, but when you don't a's even Lee the indirect. This system gets the snake's
tougher,” ° ear muffs for being complex. Anything may
vpgereee = t Tennis Tournament for happen and so the stude is kept in’ suspense Charlotte
Someone said he wouldn't be a widow's continually, The first: indication of trouble
second husband. Personally, we'd rather he Students Starts Tuesday is a gradual fading of the beauty of the
her second husband than her first. light. Slowly it loses its brilliance and takes Transfer Company
a fon the color of an old brick. Then it stays
Geo, Ragan (struggling across the campus Contenders for V Varsity Will Seek at red heat for a few minutes, gives a last
with a law book )—"Gee, but Ive got a heavy Places in Court Play Next flutter and goes out. Htomay come on again
Y Peril 2 : Few Weeks ee & fe vena & PHONE 298
course this year. within half an hour if all conditions are ta
= ; ; ete a vorable, Personally 1 think this is all don
Ikey’s short story: “A BC D goldfish.” A tens tournament, open to a AVIESON For some good purpose and is really bene al an Oy
soiemiareaers students with the exception of the four mem A a is the inne hese te shan BAGGAGE
“What's the excitement on the campus 7” bers of last year’s varsity team, began Tues ficial because: Ist, It gives the vietim au! AND TAXI
asked Skit. “Is it a Fresh parade, or has day and will continue two or three weeks chatice to get to the window and) exercise
Fresh Frantz stopped talking 2” until a winner is chosen and the four high his lungs. This is very good for one after SERVICE
Flagman  Briggs—"Neither one, Skit, Men selected. Thistournament was planned a hard ten minutes of study, 2nd, I en
Yeargen is twenty-one today, andthey are by Mac Beall, manager of the varsity team. riches the vocabulary,  Statisties. show teil
trying to put shoes on him.” Since the weather has been bad and little if the lights go off four times in the course | JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
see ecaa interest has been shown in tennis thus far. of an evening an intelligent: Freshman, wy
Three Davidson hoys were cating in an | enly 30 men are entered. However, at Iasi, (Continued on page 6)
Asheville restaurant. They ordered ham 30 more are expected, d ce
sandwiches. Just as they started tocat a Quite a number of the men entered have Ooo z aH
mouse beneath the counter squeaked. One} been playing tennis regularly since school H
of the boys opened his sandwich quickly. ! started and many fast matches will be play- H
“Ain't in mine.” he announced, cheerfully.[ed. Among the old men who are showing WHITE DRUG COMPANY H
— good form are Hugh Wells, MeCuteheon, U H
Abie Schniggiefritz (in butcher shop) Wood, Brown and Parker.” There are also a Dealers In
“Gimme a pound of dot salmon.” few Freshmen who play exceptionally well.
sutcher—"That’s not®salmon, that’s hi im. When the tournament is over the four high Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Abie—"Who asked you vot it vas? men will challenge the four letter men in Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
a = tennis for places on this year’s varsity team. H
“Didja hear about the cruel New York Eleven tennis courts are now in good con- i
police ?" | dition. _Most-of the-eredit-for this goes-to PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
“No, What did they doz” I Mac Beall, who with a few others has done
“Cut off a burglar’s retreat.” ene for the tennis situation at Davidson, ———— —————— ————EEEE aSsssss5 — woeessssssssseee eorr'y
[aan anserewenessnseesssennwassnnnssssaaasanen: == cx +
Victrolas ! Furniture, Rugs

Draperies and
Interior Decorations

We Make Designs and Erect
Draperies and Carpets for
Homes, Lodge Rooms
Society Halls, Etc.

