4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

+ FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
Y the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
CHALMERS M. S. McILWA
KENNETH S. McALPI

sew on cnensccees Editor
Business Manager

Editorial Staff
weeneuedsccas Managing
-Assistant Managing
-Assistant Managing
--Peanut. Parcher
-Associate
Associate
Associate
--Alumni Editor
-Athletic Editor

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

Staff

---Circulation Manager

Subscription Manager
.-.---Bookkeeper

rvice Manager

-Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R, H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Scc.-Treas : E. MOORE
J, M. APPLEB ‘. P, O'CONNOR
H, M. AUS' R ER
W. H. BRANCE

B. PARK

Y. PITTS

. RATCHFORD
. REGE

J. B. THOMPSON

lL. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

THE COLLEGE BAND
URING the past few years Davidson
has had a college band which fune-
tioned well enough, but lacked the
advantages of specialized instruction, The
band has always worked hard but received
little recognition,

This year Captain G. H. Weems, Com-
mandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit is
determined to have the best colege band in
the State, and is leaving no stone unturned
in the accomplishment — of his purpose.
Mhrough the co-operation of General A, J.
Bowley, Commander of Fort Brage, War-
rant Officer TE. J. Lacock, leader of the Fort
Brage band will devote thirty dvs of his
leave to the instruction of the Davidson Col-
lege band.

With this specialized instruction, the pros-
pects are good of having the best band in
Davidson history. J. R. Ernest, captain of
the band has developed the organization of
the band which now numbers about thirty
men in its membership. :

\ first-class band means much, and the
boys are working overtime that they may
get the benefit of the best instruction which
this section of the country can afford,

GET BEHIND THE WILDCATS

The fighting Wildcats have won their
fourth straight victory of the season but six
gruelling battles stare them in the face.
Outweighed in the past four engagements,
the Wildcats meet more beef and brawn in
the coming games.

Right in succession the Red and Black
Machine fights against six teams which out-
weigh it from twelve to thirty pounds per
man. That fact means that every man on
the team will have to assimilate a terrific
amount of punishment.

The very fact that a man plays on a Wild-
cat team stamps him as a fighter—one who
is always scrapping, even against over-
whelming odds. But a fighter needs to be
in the best physical and mental condition to
be at his best.

Coaches Monk and Tex are taking care of
the physical welfare of the squad, and of
the mental also to a large degree. But the
attitude and backing of the student body
has an undoubted effect on the morale of
the team.

The influence of the student body is felt,
not only in the cheering at the games, but
in many other ways. The response to the
calls for work on the athletic field has an
unquestionable effect on. the mental plane
of the team. It is hard for the men’ who
work between two and three hours on the
gridiron every day for three months to feel
that the students are back of them when a
call for work on the athletic field brings out
a mere handful of boys.

If the students are not willing to work an
hour or two to help make conditions hetter
for the team! can the team believe that the
student body is one hundred per cent back
of them? Rooting is a most important
thing and necessary to the morale of every
team, but the real test of spirit comes when

““thext. is work to be done. -The motto of
“Let the other féllow do it” will not work.
The team is out on the field every after-

J. M. GARRISON

A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
P. F. JONE: ’

W. H. LYNCH

noon one hundred per cent strong. Let’s
back Coaches Monk and Tex and show the
team that we are all behind them.

Chaff

Open Forum

With the College Editors

HARD WORK

Meditation and day-dreaming is necessary
in every person’s life. There should be a
certain amount of time set apart each week
for this. We must be able to picture the
things we are striving for in our minds be-
fore we can attain them, Most of us while
in high school set our aim in life very high.
College students as a rule are the pick of
the young people in the community from
which they came and have a purpose in life.
We picture the time when we will hold a
prominent place in the progress of the
world, But let us remember that dreams
and pictures do not complete the task. They
must be backed with hard, sincere work.

There are no short cuts to success. No
doubt we all would like to drift into the
beautiful harbor of success; but when we
drift, we are likely to go some place other
than where we intended to go. The canoe
that is rowed is the one that lands safely.
Students might be divided into three classes.
Some people seem to possess the art of
handshaking, substituting that for hard
work, We can hear other students say,
“Well, | suppose [ will get by” that’s all d
care for, They do just get by too and when
you hear from them out in life they are
usually still “getting by.” Others say, “1
have a goal in life that | am striving to
reach.” fn most cases the striving ones will.
succeed,

Those that try the hard work way make
our leaders, We do not mean that anyone
should kill himself at work or make life a
drudgery by it, but that he should be con-
stantly going upward step by step. Success
is not reached in a single act. It is a pro-
cess of continual growth, Each day should
be filled with constant effort. Our trouble
is'that we are often side-tracked by the un-
important things. We use our time in such
a way that it is wasted. Time is valuable
and a person is fortunate when he learns
just how to use every minute of it. Frank-
lin said, “Tf you love life then do not squand-
er time because that is what life is made of.”
Put the first things in life first and the
second things second but make every hour
count, :

Idison’s life in some respects is a failure
but he has succeeded in the world of inven-
tion. THe has changed the world by his con-
tributions. How did he do it? Did he do it
by handshaking people, cheating his way
through, or by doing just enough work to
get by. No, -he now even in his old age,
often forgets to-go to his meals because of
hard consecrated work, He says that prac-
tically all of his success has come as a. re-
sult of hard work rather thay, natural skill.

Have you a high standard in life? [f not,
spend hours alone in meditation and prayer
and get a vision of your task. When you
have received the vision, strive toward. it
by hard consecrated effort. No doubt many
will not be able to reach what they are
striving for, The aim may be too high to
be reached but with a high aim the success
will be greater than with low aim. If you
desire to make any contributions to the
world’s progress, matriculate in the Uni-
versity of Hard Work,

So much there is that we should do,
And your place and mine own never fill.
As we observe those by their skill
Who rise to fame are very few.
—Orange and Blue
Carson-Newman College.

KEEP IN THE GAME

Who was it said that the man who hasn't
anything to boast of but his illustrious an-
cestors is like unto a potato? ‘the only good
belonging to him is underground,

Whether you handle a pick or wheelbar-
row ora set of boks here in college, you have
got to work, for to achieve what the world
dubs success a man must attend strictly to
business and keep a little in advance of the
times.,

Just as you take time to sit on the side-
line you begin to worry about yourself and
your possessions; so the only way to keep
an open mind is to keep busy, and then, be-
sides, there is a satisfaction that grows with
each achievement. When you are kept busy
enough you have no time to watch for
slights and chills from cold shoulders. Just
as long as you can make the days produce
something that helps the world there is
something that keeps adding joy to your
life and years to your future. The best of
all ways to keep abreast of the times is to
start something!

_ cessful conclusion. That’s about all there
| is/in life for any of us—Emory Wheel.

|
oa |

Grasp an idea and work it out. ta.a suc-..

*hash-houses

WHY DAVIDSON STUDENTS
COMPLAIN

Perhaps a better and more comprehensive title
to this detailed piece of composition would. be,
“Why don't they complain more?” At any rate,
it is a self-evident fact that the charges of this
institution have just grounds for complaint, as
did the imbiber of the delicious Java, when he
found a handful of sediment in the bottom of
his cup. That these very same grounds have not
been washed away by the torrential rains of the
past few weeks is due no doubt to the beneficient
«provision of an all-wise providence which decreed
that students of old Davidson must have some
bases for their arguments.

It is perhaps a wise provision of nature that
some days and moments itf and around this hal-
lowed spot seem so faultless, so devoid of en-
tangling alliances of cosmopolitan things, and so
free from worry, that it is with a vain effort that
we attempt to complain. There is simply nothing
of which or for which to complain. On the other
hand, it will do well to remember that those days
and nights when—but let us not dwell upon mat-
ters of a lugubrious nature just now.

Pertaining to prehistoric occurences, we can, by
delving into vast volumes dealing with the prim-
itive cra of the college, find countless accounts of
mutterings, sundry and otherwise, on the parts
of those who were fortunate to attend this place.
Harking back even unto 1837 A.D., we can find
numerous accounts of complaints against the
high price of that well-know beverage, coal-oil.
This article was a very useful piece of furniture
back in the ante-bellum days when mid-night
burning of the oil was quite the vogue. Some-
times its price would ascend to the peerless
heights of nine cents per gallon and this would
cause many scathing epithets to be heaped upon
the heads of the unsuspecting oil barons.

It was rumored around the campus of that day
and time that a movement was on foot, or in
hand, to purchase a whale on the co-operative
plan so that cach and every student might have
an ample supply of sperm oil with which to light
the scenes of their bull sessions. lit has never
been found out whether or not the companion of
Jonah was actually purchased.

All this goes to show that afflictions have been
cur common lot, however, and the fact that the
Davidson student has not absolutely revolted,
speaks well for the virile, two-fisted, blue-blood-
ed, Anglo-Saxon stock from which this college
has drawn most of its trade. This reference to
stock does not imply that live stock or stock
holders were part and parcel of our life here,
quite the opposite indeed. aWhen the stars fell
with a mighty bang back in the “ "30's" or “‘4o's”
somewhere, and caused most of the population to
seck their Bibles and prayer books,, did the stu-

dents of Davidson complain? — They did not.
Their minds were too much: taken up with
thoughts of seeking the tall timber: where the
wrath of the sidercal universe would not be

wreaked upon their tender craniums. When the
war between the States came on, did our boys
revolt at the thought of missing classes on ac-
count of the pesky Yankee varmints who persist-
ed in shooting up half the country? Most of
them spiked their guns and hit off to where For-
rest and Lee were waiting for them with open
arms , and the mama's boys who were left here,
moulded bullets and tore up their shirts for band-
ages during their odd minutes off from classes.
Even when Win. J. Bryan was advocating his
free-silver policy and announced that he would
make Davidson on his itinerary, the hardy stu-
dents leaped with unbounded joy at the news.

This was due to the report that several dumbell,

yokels got out, to the effect that the free silver
clause in Bill Bryan’s platform meant that he was
distributing shiny dimes and quarters to each
and every person who fell under the sway of his
argentiferous-toned mouthings.

It must be admitted that the scholars, in spite
of their saintly demeanor, voiced a few protests
every now and then when matters took a too
sudden turn for the worse. For instance, when
the cook at one of the largest and most favorable
cooked up three boxes of carpet
tacks with the hash, thinking that he had used
pepper, the boldest of the victims voiced an in-
dignant protest that sounded like the mutterings
of Asrom’s crowd when they felt the. effect of
daylight savings time in the arid wastes of the
desert, Again, when one of the college presidents
absent-mindly announced that the day would be
a holiday, all the students grasped opportunity
by the horns and tail and took an all-day trip to
Mt. Mourne, Cornelius and other distant points.
When they came back, they found that the an-
nouncement was an oversight and their grades
had been lowered by twenty-five in every subject.
It is said that one fellow came near ta flunking
that year, too,

But in our day and time it is different. The
old boys who are now our distinguished ancestors
never had to put up with flappers, bobbed hair,
horseless carriages, muddy walks and all such
nuisances. Girls of long ago did not flap, or at
least didn't do so in public. Hair was worn long,
and the speediest vehicle in these parts was the
red and white buggy owned by one of the pro-
fessors, who used to promenade up and down
main street, pulled by a broken-winded mare
that stopped every two blocks to recuperate from
her strenuous exertions. Boys back in those
days went barefooted between Sundays so it
didn't make very much difference about mud. We
have to stand for the women in street cars and
sit for them while they are getting their locks
abbreviated in our pet tonsorial parlor. A pack-
age that is entrusted to the care of Uncle Sam’s
gray-ctlad mail carriers comes to us three weeks
later than it was sent. Our special delivery let-
ters are slower coming than the German payments
on our allied debts. One fellow received a pair
of baby shoes the other day that had been or-
dered for him 17 years ago. Congested mails was
the reason ascribed for the speedy service.

Like the twinkling stars (not of the Broadway
variety) the lights in the dormitories come and
go. The Mazdas vacillate and oscillate at all
hours of the night, thereby throwing a consider-
able amount of strain upon the optical organs of
the weary students. The only good resulting
from this peculiar brand of monkey-shines on
the part of the-static juice is to inculcate a new
line of choice epithets in the vocabularies of the
“denizens of the dormitories. One of the chief
causes of complaint is that no studying can be
accomplished during the intervals of darkness.

This

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

A LOST ART
Consider, if you please, the old and familiar
This

was the rule by which most of our fathers’ pri-

phrase, “reading, writing and arithmetic.”
mary education was measured. By observation,
inexperienced though it may be, they were well
old

found wanting. Examing this phrase a little more

measured by this rule and have not been

closely and see if the rule holds as good at the
Using the word WRITING for
example, it would seem, judging from the various

present time,

forms and styles of handwriting of the majority

of young people today, handwriting is becoming,

if not already, a lost art, which can be of no
¥reater asset to a young man or young woman,
throughout their college life.

Bringing the subject still closer home, and using
Davidson College as an example, how many men
of the faculty and student body can write a full
page of letter-head: s#ze paper, and make it pre-
sentable? Davidson College claims to be an in-
stitution of higher learning and so it is, but
judging from some of the specimens of hand-
writing of some men who have gone out from its
class rooms and noting typical examples of pen-
manship of cach class at the present time, it
would appear that we are sorely in ned of an
addition of the copy-book, writing course and
writing instructor to teach the majority of men,
here in Davidson, HOW TO WRITE.

There are a number of men in college who
can write a respectable hand and is presentable
anywhere, but the majority of men and students
at Davidson could casily be out-classed in this
line by a grammar school or high school pupil.
been attributed partly to

deficiency has

the fact that some courses require strict note
taking and the students have become careless in
this way.

Whatever the conditions may be here at David-
and elsewhere, the art handwriting is
certainly on the decline and is badly in need of
revival, It is to be hoped that all who read this
little criticism will accept it and soon come to
the realization of the fact that to write well, is
worth while and an asset, and the lost art can

J. HP.

son of

be revived.

In behalf of the Student Body The David-

sonian wélcomes President W. J. Martin
back to the campus. For twelve years

Doctor Martin has bene pilot of the institu-
tion—a twelve years of unparalleled ad-
vancement along every line.

For six weeks Doctor Martin has fought
a winning fight against a serious attack of
pneumonia and has now recovered sufti-
ciently to come home once more. The
Davidsonian extends its best wishes and
hopes for a complete recovery in the near
future.

That of course, is detrimental to the mental wel-
fare of the future politicians, ministers, presi-
dents, and lawyers of the United States.

And as for Davidson mud, let bad enough alone!
That particular feature of our campus life has
caused more grumblings, mutterings and dis-
gruntled expressions that all the reviews and ex-
aminations strung together, Then too, the David-
son student body has a faculty and board of high
moguls who were never young themselves and
can never understand the inner workings of an
undergraduate’s heart. They cannot see just why
the typical Davidsonian would like to kick his
heels to the syncopated blues of a jazz band or
have two holidays per week, or have special trains
furnished free gratis for nothing, providing spe-
cial accommodations for all football games play-
ed away from the hill. They have the campus
giaded instead of providing walks and force us
to undergo divers lectures and talks that are
branded as essential to the making of a genuine
collegian, And they wonder ‘why the average
student, whatever he may be and look like, com-
plains at all.

But to dive right down to the bottom of this
bottomless pool of unsound thought, one might
discover the hidden fount of the complaints that
permeate the life on this campus. It is simply
this, every student of physies or law, or any such
art or science, knows that matter cannot be con-
sumed, whatever goes up must come down and
whatever goes in must come out. Thus, our
handsome young man on the campus, being fed
on the manna of class room proceedings and va-
rious other methods of scholastic instillation of
knowledge, proceeds to get full every once in a
while, or frequently as the case may be. Then
he pops off his surplus steam and energy in the
iorm of meaningless and vague complaints against
everything in general and nothing in. particular.
By doing so he harms no one, accomplishes no
good and is happy in the meanwhile. Why both-
er him. ets
