THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

WILSON—PROPHET OF
MILLENIUM

By Chas. O. Jones, D.D.

Human greatness is personal influence
while living and larger influence after death.
This definition declares the five greatest
Americans—Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln,
Lee, Wilson. Washington was the father of
the first great, enduring free nation; Jeffer-
son the author of the declaration that all
men are free and equal m relation to civic
rights; Lincoln the preserver of the Union
on the basis that it could not exist half free
and half slave; Lee the exemplar of highest
moral excellence; Wilson the first to project
the possibility of a human world of free na-
tionalities, each under its own government,
the weak as independent and unafraid as the
strong, all living in international concord—
and this should end war.

The Hebrew prophets foretold this in
mystic language. — The angels sang it at
Bethlehem. A_ tired, war-desolated world

longed for it. A few preachers and states-
men. thought that such world-peace might
come just before the end of terrestial his-
tory. Most of such voices were timid and
sectional.

It remained for the son of a Presbyterian
preacher, satirically called “the schoolmas-
ter,” to grasp the idea, construct it into a
workable plan, and broadcast it around the
world. No man was ever better prepared for
this daring adventure in altruistic statesman-
ship. Washington had no scholastic train-
ing. Jefferson had a superb education in
books and experience for administrative func-
tions. Lincoln was born in a log cabin and
self-taught. Lee's culture was largely in
one field. Wilson ‘excelled them all in
severity of collegiate, study, intellectual en-
largement in a teacher's chair, wideness of
reading, toil of authorship, and the power
of intensive and extensive thinking. He said
that he had “a one-track. mind.” It was a
trunk line and ran full-fledged to the right-
cous aspiration of every people.

These five greatest men are the children
of Providence, Each grew as opportunity
opened its gates until all became colossal—
human Himalayas! The test of greatness is
to fill your sphere; grow as it expands;
touch every point in the circumference,
whether the radius be short or long.

Washington and Lee were aristocrats, not
selfish and inert, but workers and servants
of the people. Jefferson, Lineoln and Wil-
son are the greatest Democrats of the age.
The first, although born to wealth and to
the seats of the mighty, proposed to Virginia
a legislative “system by which every fiber
will be eradicated of ancient or future aris-
tocracy.” He affirmed that “the will of the
majority is the natural law of every society,
and the only sure guardian of the rights of
man.” No wonder that he thundered in the
opening of the Declaration of Independence :
“We hold that all men are created free and
equal!” Lincoln had a belief in people which
was almost a passion, and as he said in the
Gettysburg address: “Government should
be of the people, by the people, and for the
people!” Wilson was Jefferson and Lincoln
combined. He had their composite clear-
ness of thought, courage of conviction, posi-
tiveness that all peoples should be free, and
Stonewall Jackson’s heroism in trumpeting
his conclusions and hopes from the housctops
to the world. What words are these! True
democracy embodies “the principles and pol-
icies of forward-looking men everywhere,
of every modern nation, of every enlightened
community. They are the principles of man-
kind, and must prevail!”

An Epochal Proposition

Wilson's’ life preparation brought him to
his famous address before Congress, in Jan-
uary, 1917. He declaréd that the only hope
of mankind was in a League of Nations.
This «revolutionary proposition shook the
world as a political and moral earthquake.
As a prophet—both teacher and seer—Wilson
asserted four propositions: A league of all
nations for universal peace. Small nations
protected in autonomy and development. The
people their own rulers through representa-
tive government. The United States in the
place of moral leadership to bear its full
part of responsibility, duty and helpfulness.
These propositions accepted would constitute
the Monroe Doctrine of the world and for-
ever end war.

It is suggestive to note the comments on
this address. New York Times: “By one
bold stroke President Wilson removes the
obstacles to world peace guaranteed by the
world.” ~ Courier-Journal, whose editor
wrote in personal antagonism to Wilson:
“It is indeed staggering—this formal actual
proposal of a transcendental dreamer for
the instant, practical establishment by force
of the millennium of mankind and The
Courier-Journal has not the heart at the mo-

ment of first impressions to proceed into an
analysis of its fatal inconsistencies, fantastic
illusions, and limitless possibilities for mis- |
fortune and mischief.” Lincoln’s “common |
people” were not influenced either by praise |
or censure. These were the sufferers. The!
bleeding, staggering world hailed Wilson |
as the Messiah of a new hope, and clung to}
him as a mountain of strength that could)
not be shaken by the tempests of war. To
this day the bedouin, the Chinaman, the Afri-

can,’the Russian—unlettered peasants and). .

savages—talk of Wilson as a civic Redeem-
er! His fame is the widest of any man
that ever lived; for press, wires, wireless
and radio have carried his name to remotest
bounds.—Wesleyan Christian Advocate.

THE RADIO

The Accomac, Va., Peninsula

Enterprise.)

(From

It is hard to realize that the radio, no
longer a novelty to the general public,
More

is less than two years old. ac-

curately speaking, only scientists and ad- |
vanced experimenters had any familiar-
ity with it; it was still in the experi-
mental stage, and a thing of uncanny,
incredulous mystery to the average man
It still

uncanny and mysterious to the great ma-

and woman, two years ago. is
jority, of course, but they are no long-
er incredulous, but with amazing rapid-
ity its use has spread over the country,
and no section is too isolated to know it.
That is the greatest wonder and benev-
olence of the radio—that it can put lone-
liest farm house or pioneer’s cabin in in-
timate touch with the outside world; that
it can bring music, speeches, market re-
ports and an endless variety of enter-
tainment and instruction to anybody,
anywhere, who possesses a receiving set.
It is not surprising, therefore, that more
than 2,000,000 American are al-
ready equipped with receiving sets, cost-
ing anywhere from $10 to $400 apiece.
And with some 450 radio broadcasting |
stations scattered over the country, of
which about 50 may be classed as super- |
broadcasters, the most distant and least
costly of the receiving within
range of several broadcasting stations.
What a blessing the radio is to lonely

homes

sets is

people, sick people and invalids. Many |
a bed-ridden “shut-in'’s”’ hard lot is
alleviated and_ made bearable by the!

friendly radio; many a lonely farmer’s
wife, far from neighbors and isolated by
distance from participation in healthy
relaxation, finds solace in the family
radio set, which brings to her as well as.
to her city cousin, fine music, inspiring
sermons, discourses by world statesmen,
and all manner of instructive and enter-
taining programs.

There is now no earthly limit to the
possibilities of radio communication, On|
Christmas Eve the ship of Captain Mc- |
Millan the Polar explorer, lay frozen in
the Artic night a few hundred miles from
the North Pole. Yet his sister talked
with him from Chicago by radio and the
whole ship’s crew spent a delightful even-
ing listening to familiar songs sung in}
Chicago. This year we have a presi- |
dential campaign and it will be unique |
as the first in history when the candi-|
dates were able to talk, not to a few |
hundred thousands at one time, but to 2,- |
000,000 American homes simultaneously. |
The old “spell binding” cross-country |
style of campaigning will go into the dis-
card. Thus radio revolutionizes political |
methods and opens up limitless possibil-_
ities for “reaching the people.”

The future of radio is beyond concep- |
tion. That it will prove one of the great- |
est blessings of the age may be believed. |
It will bring the advantages of civiliza-
tion and culture to the uttermost parts |
of the earth. It will abolish the frontiers |
and the desolate abodes of barbarism.
It annihilates time, distance and all the

|
|
|

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE |
WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte
A. M. A. M. P. M. P.M.
Charlotte:=222 ase. ze Ss & 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
= 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45. 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman — 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15.
Statesville “=== ©222 2225 228 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
: Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
8:15, 10:15 2:15 4:45
8:45_ 10:40 2:45 §:10
WAISON | oso ooo ooo ei 9:00" *° 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius -... ---. -., 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
9 v1 2 3:20 5:45
10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30
For:Further Information See Driver

|

lits

| be independent, and fair to all interests.

other barriers to communication. It
should go a long way toward promoting
that era of peace, good will and the
brotherhood of man which has ever been
the dream of idealists. It has already
made audible the’ voices of microscopic |
creatures invisible to the naked eye. In|
the words of that immortal message : |
“What great things hath God wrought.” |

INCIDENT OF WILSON’S VISIT
TO DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“An interesting Woodrow Wilson in-

cident has just been recalled, in con-
nection with Mr. Wilson's visit to David-
son College in 1916,” writes a Davidson
man,

“One of the first things the President
wanted to do after reaching the campus |
was to go to his old room, No. 13, Cham- |

bers building. No official plans had been |

made for his visit and no one knew just |
what he would want to do. Someone)
had jokingly told the student, whose
room it was that year, that he had better
be getting ready for a visit from the
President of the United States, but he
replied that he guessed it was his room
and he would do what he wanted with
it. Consequently when Mr, Wilson ar- |
rived on the campus, this student was
in his room in the midst of a good nap.
When it was seen where Mr. and Mrs.
Wilson were going, and when they were
almost at the door, some students rushed
into the room and hurriedly awakened
occupant. The rapidly growing
crowd outside were greatly astonished to

}see a scantily clad and half asleep young |

man jump wildly out of the window of
the famous room No, 13 and make off
across the campus.

Mr. Wilson stepped into the room just |
a moment later and seeing the disorder- |

led bed, explanations were in order and

he was told of what had happened. We}
thought it» a great joke and laughed}
heartily. He said he would like to meet |
the young man, but he was far away.”

—Reprint from Charlotte Observer.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE
NEWSPAPER

(From The Spartanburg Herald)

In few processes is the spread of the
spirit of tolerance and_ service hetter |
illustrated than in the evolution of the}
newspaper. The modern newspaper
not many generations old. Its develop-
ment has been marvelous, of course, in
the last 50 years, due to inventions-and
improvements entering into the mechan-
ical end of the business, such as the]
printing press and the typesetting mach- |

is

ine, but the greater change has been in
the point of view, the ideals of the pro-
fession. The newspaper’s genesis was |
the pamphlet. The pamphlet became the)
organ and from the personal or political |
organ the modern newspaper came into!
being.

As strange as it may seem to us today,
“news” was not the idea in the early
days. Opinion, point of view, was the
big feature. The editorial page is all
there is left of that in the newspaper of
today. It remains and still gives char-
acter and expression to the newspaper,
but editorials occupy a very small part of
the space in the modern paper.

The “Elder Bennett,” as he is known
in newspaper parlance, the father of the|
late James Gordon Bennett, owner of |
The New York Herald, is credited with |
being the man who put “news” in news-
papers. It occurred to him that people
might be interested in what was going
on about them—and more interested in
reading about those things that they |
knew most about. So he began to put|
“news” in The New York Herald and all
the others had to follow.

But the changed point of view is most
interesting. Today a newspaper is a
public service institution. Its ideal is to

On that basis it has become an institu-
tion. We know within our own part of
the country newspapers more than a
hundred years old. They have had their
ups and downs, changes of management
and ownership, but they are still the
newspapers of those cities. They have
carried the burdens, fought the battles
and advanced the interests of their peo-
ple through generations, and are still
fighting for those things believed to be
for the common good. Newspaper or-
gans have come and gone, but those that
caught the vision and: kept the faith’ re-
main. The modern newspaper strives to
be fair and independent, interesting and

| fice is at Chattanooga, Tenn.
| ly resigned as pastor of the Loray Pres-

helpful.

Alumni News

There has recently been published by
the Presbyterian Standard Publishing

|Co., of Charlotte, N. C., a booklet en-

titled “War Record of Davidson College.

nelia Shaw, the college librarian, and
contains,a complete record of the David-
son students
service during the war period from 1917
to 1918, The data was secured by the
compiler from newspapers, magazines
and extensive correspondence.
tents is as follows:

1, Foreword. (Which tells of the war

| history of the college, including the or-

ganization of the S. A. T. C. and the

epidemic of influenza.)

2. Poem—“Our Dead.”

3. Memorial Service (May 27, 1010).

4. Rank of Davidson in Great War.
<5. The Faculty in the Great War.

6 Davidson Alumni Who Died in

Service. (This contains a photograph
anda short service sketch of each of the
20 Davidson men who made the supreme
sacrifice).

7. Service Register. (Which is the
roster of all Davidson men who served
during the war, giving the war record
of each.)

The booklet is highly interesting and
contains a vast amount of valuable in-
formation,

The young people will be especially in-
terested in learning that Rev. R. C. Long
has become asistant secretary of the
General Assembly’s Committee, His of-
He recent-

byterian Church of Gastonia. He is suc-
ceeded by Rev. J.T. C'Vim") Pharr,
Edgar Tuft, '22, was a visitor in David-
last week... He stopped over as he
was on his way to Wilmington, He
now in charge of the responsible work
which his father so successfully conduct-
ed at Banner Elk,

son

is

Rev. J. EK. Purcell has been elected as
secretary of the Young Men's Work, of
the Southern Presbyterian Church.

The con- |

| This booklet was compiled by Miss Cor-|

and alumni who were in|

\
|

Back the

Life Service
Campaign

» of consideration.

In the mind .of every serious
thinking college man there arises a
question—‘What am I going to do
after graduatio1 This question
presents a serious crisis. It de-
mands a definite decision.

In an unusual degree the Life
Insurance business combines the
opportunity for conspicuous bus-
iness success with the opportunity
for real social service. Here is a
profession that is eminently worthy

Write to us for particulars

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.

. Changed From
SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.

Greensboro, N. C.

A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

>

VICTROLAS

New Records Weekly —
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK

GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES
AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS

PLAYER PIANO ROLLS

SHEET MUSIC

Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS

MUSIC STORE, Ine.

CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-

Mr. Stitt at

Have You a Policy That Protects
You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which pro-
tects you against such checks given in
! exchanging in good faith merchandise or
merchandise and money, such check be-
ing drawn on a bank in the city in which
your place of business is located.

The prices for this protection are $25 or
$40. Ask for further ‘information.

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

> Shadependence Trust Co.
Phone 3490

Call

