6.

THE DAVIDSONIAR, MARCH 20, 1924

asm which spoke well for the musical talent
j;of the men who compose these groups.

e
Glee Club Entertains
; b
To A Queen $s Taste |,;,,. practically all of which were used on
—— fee South ' Carolina-Georgia trip. The ar-

Reception Tendered Musicians After | rangements were good, and the foursome was
Concert |in tip-top form.
pel Sere The doors of the receptiva hails were

The Davidson musicians, en masse, per-| thrown open to the entire Davidson delega-
formed for the Queens in Charlotte last Sat-| tion, following the concert.
urday night, playing with a vim and
enthusiasm that brought back memories of
the Southern jaunt of last Fall.

The choruses and vocal numbers were
well received and the young ladies were par-
ticularly generous with their applause. The
crowning event of the evening’s entertain-
ment was the Jazz Orchestra’s triumphant

Mrs. Walter Henderson entertained
the Young Matron’s Club Friday after-
noon at a St. Patrick’s party. The home
was appropriately decorated in a color
scheme of green. Rook was played at
several tables. Green ice cream and cake
with green icing was served as refresh-

march into the hearts of the entire Queens | Ments.

audience. The syncopators were called back

time and time again to play “just one more.” Misses Smith and McDowell from
The symphony orchestra and the mandolin | Charlotte visited the Misses Young last

guitar trio were received with an enthusi-! week.

FOR SALE

UP-TO-DATE MEAT MARKET
With Well Established and Growing Trade

All Equipment New
Forced to Sell Account Il] Health

G. E. BRANTLEY Davidson, N. C.

igo ie ie

Me Se
ete’

SESSSPESEEECEGES

See this Exhibit

of correctly designed men’s clothing care-
fully tailored in the English fashion from
listinctive imported and domestic fabrics.

~,READY TO WEAR»
Exhibiting at

PARRLOR OF WEST
MARCH 20 AND 21

Brisk Brothers

40 WEST 50th STREET, NEW YORK
See also THE KENWORTHY, a conservative Scotch shoe for men

a

&
he
&
&
&
+
+
&
+
+

aaa a aaa aa Sa aeaseSeSaSTETeSe ETE SESESSESSTSSSESEeEee

For Women Only!

Do You Like To Have
A BIG TIME?

If you do, we can interest you in a sure fire proposition

Here It Is!

Beginning with April 16th and running (not walking) through
the 2Ist there will be held at Davidson College, Davidson,
N. C., one of those aforesaid occcasions.

If It’s Fun To Do, We'll Do It!

This being Leap Year, it is very easy to get in on this prop-
osition. Just sign the coupon and mail to our representative.
Everything will then be done to prepare for your entertain-
ment while you are in our midst.

Come One, Come All!

This may sound like a wildcat proposition but it is

a gilt-edged security thet a grand time will be had
by all.

|

|

|

|

|

1

| (Name of our representative)

You may expect me sometime Wednesday, April 16th.
all. be so glad to come. Yours for a big time,

(No aliases accepted) |
}

| The quartet sang a total of seven sclec-;
|

| met. Men and women are needed who will | disputes, was discussed last Thursday by the

| pouring out their lives in the home mission |

| what the world calls a bigger service.
| said that Christ needs men who are willing
|

|to serve and obey.

| army was not always the ablest man.
{most desirable men were those who were

| have met a real need.”

-| women who have been lifted from the depths

| poems that was well in keeping with the |
| aims set forward for the magazine at the | You'll enjoy every shave with Williams.
| Cpening of the year. | a pure, natural-white cream without any artificial

| Simpson, J. L. Green, W. H. Sharpe, W.|

ve W.-F: Galloway, editor-in-chief, states

‘Somerville Tells Of | siteravy Soeitties

Home » Mission Needs

Tells of His Experiences in Virginia
Field

The new parliamentary form of procedure
that has been adopted in all the societies has
csi, gotten off to a flying start. All of the so-

Rev. Walter G. Somerville, of Hillsville, |cieties are extending cordial invitations to
Va., talked at the “Y” meeting Suaday even- Non-literary society men to attend their
ing on Home Mission Work. We began hy | Meetings, feeling that they have something
isaying that there is a temptation for college Worth while to offer that will interest even
men to feel that their hands are tied while the least concerned.

;in college and that they do not have a pari Pandeinic

in the work of God until they go out into) The meeting of the Pandeinic Literary So-
life. He pointed out the nesl for students ciety last Tuesday night was one of the best
{to begin working for God white in college. |since the Parliamentary plan was instituted.

Mr. Somerville first presented the ned of | The subject discussed was, Resolved, That
home mission work. He said, “There ave) the issuing of Federal injunctions in labor
sections in West Virginia where there are | disputes be forbidden by Congress. The
four times as many unreached souls as there | speakers for the bill were G. M. Eddington
are in like sections of Belgian Congo. In| and Deck. Those speaking against the bill
Arkansas there are a million souls who are were H. L. Currie and G. M. Foard.
unreached.” ‘ A. H. Hollingsworth, leader of the Tories,

He told that in Carroll County, Virginia,|in a very forceful speech urged that his
there were 17,000 souls who were unreached partisans support their party to the fullest.
with the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. Tle) The enthusiasm of the society in the par-
said that there were sections in this county liamentary plan is shown by the number of
more needy than Hillsyille and the surround- men who wish to take the floor and express
ing country where the Allen men closed the | their views on the subject under discussion.
courts several years ago. It is generally conceded that the new plan

He said, “The greatest need of home mis- Will be of great benefit to the society.
sions is in our great cities. ‘There are thou- Eumenean
sands of people in the city who never darken) The question, Resolved, That Congress
the doors of a church.” should pass a bill prohibiting the courts from

He then showed how this need is to be) issuing injunctions in connection with labor

lift up Jesus Christ. |new method recently adopted by the society.

He told a story of a banquet given in New| The discussion was kept going mainly by
York for two hundred young men and women | Rogers and Brown for the affirmative, and
who were ready to sail for the for-! Hopkins and Laws, for the negative. The

| ¢ign field. One man in commenting on the house voted in favor of the negative at they

fine spirit of these young people made the | close of the discussion.
remark, “Did you ever stop to think that we ‘ +
Philanthropic

export the best?” eG ; . ;
‘ ; The r | ne
Mr. Somerville went on to show that the | py ai piss Os (lee a oleiltey Ba
best are needed for the home field as well as | 4, eal ye aad eet AD
for the foreign. He said, “We need men Biaae si te mee Aa . pies!
like Edward Guerrant, who gave ‘his life in | Ratchford J Gal vi Ta ears M.
the Kentucky mountains, and Edgar Tufts, | Ss ‘ith + ute PATTON, ane Mpa n'
who spent a quarter of a century in thie | orory A John Crinkley as alternate. Fol-
mission work of western North Carolina. We | all this debate there was a general dis-
need e Men like. Geahiin® Cainpball aio. ta (ooo mon the Bok Peace Plan by the mem-
Dope ccna can ae ampoes, WhO 18 bers of the house, which resulted in the

burying his life in the colored mission of : i ;

AGG jhouse almost unanimously voting down the
ae : | moti 9 » bj ¢ > s rps 2
“God give us more men like these who are | ptlon thee therbill ibe adopted as read, “The
|Speakers were then criticized by J. L. Mc-

es

field.” | Lean, the reviewer, and those who had taken
: e r : ‘part in y ebate were > o y
Mr. Somerville said that the curse of the |? the debate were recommended for

Metrophilian

At the last meeting of the Metrophilian
Literary Society, the installation of officers,
which was to take place, was postponed on
account of the absence of the president, due
to an injury. C. E. Hodgin gave an oration,
the subject of which was The Road to Na-
tional Saféty. Announcement was made of
the men who are to participate in the Fresh-
Soph debate as representatives of that so-
ciety. They are: R. B. Parker, E. T. Pullen,
C. A. McIntosh, and N. C. McLeod, alternate.

Mrs. Kenneth Foreman spent the week-
end in Charlotte as the guest of Mrs.
O. J. Thies.

SHOWING AT

DAVIDSON
PARLOR O¥ WEST

MONDAY, APRIL 14

SLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN .
a
Al
\
|

The DINNER SUIT

DEBONAIR, comfortable,
tailored with the care that i

approved b:
clusive use. "The comfortextends
to the price.

DINNER SUIT
(Shawl collar or notch)

$39.50

Manufactured and sold exclusively by

NATLUXENBERG«&Bros.
New address

N. W. Cor. 13th Se.
New York City

B41 Broadway
Stuyvesant 9898

Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent
free on request.

van | credits.
home mission work has been that young men |

have been using it for a stepping stone to

He

CENTRAL

He continued, “The soldier that I liked
best to have under me when .I was in the
The

willing to obey. God wants men who will Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
obey Him.” | Shoe Shine In Connection
He showed that the reward of this work |
was not money but the joy of seeing men | Largest Oldest Best
and women turn from a life of sin to a bet- 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

ter life. He said, “There is no greater joy

and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

HAT SHOP

than to know by the grace of God that you

He gave several instances of men. and

of sin unto lives of useful Christian service.

Lee McLean presided at the meeting. Mr. |
Williams introduced the speaker. The au- |
dience was Jed in prayer by Norman Patter-
son. C. V. Brown led the singing and Wal-
lace Purdy played the piano.

Shaving Cream

THIRD ISSUE OF MAGAZINE |
COMES OFF OF PRESS |

—— softening takes place.
The Davidson College Magazine ap-|

peared for the third time during the!
present school year on March 12th. The}
issue of the magazine carried a well-
chosen assortment of stories, essays and|

“glide” the hairs off. 3.
smooth and comfortable.

The list of contributors contained Al} coloring whatsoever.

Williams |
Shaving Cream

The Williams Hinge-

|
*. Galloway, W. C. Ogden, B. Y. Pitts, |

f
Paul M. Patterson, J. H. Caligan, W. S.}
Woods, H. L. Shelby, D. B. Wharton and
E. P. O'Connor. The stories by Simpson |
and Ogden, the sonnets of Galloway, and |
the essay by Sharpe deserve mention as |
the pick of the works appearing in the |
issue.
Besides the department of more “classi-
cal” works, there was the humorous de-
partment, Cap and Bells, of which A. M.

is “on even when
Martin is editor. Here appeared the Cee os Ld 3
choice and spice of college wit, and its it’s off.” You can’t
contributors are not mentioned because lose it, and the tube

they all appear anonymous.
hangs up!
that the fourth issue of the magazine will :
go to press soon, and all who are expect-
ing to hand articles in for it, must do so
at an early date. :

A Class Distinction

The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams

You'll notice three things about Williams
every time you shave.
is heavier and holds the moisture in against
the beard. Quicker and more thorough
2.
cates your skin — your razor actually seems to

the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter
how frequently you shave, your face stays cool,

and of Williams only.

1, Williams lather

Williams lather lubri-

Williams lather leaves

It is

