4 | Q

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 21, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D._ELKINS-.-.--..-.--~.---Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L, PRICE_----------.-- Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M.S. McILWAINE........-......2---—-- Managing

Editor
A. LAKE... Assistant Managing

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

--Associate
--Associate
Associate
Alumni

~-----.---.--.Subscription
rculation Manager
-Assistant Manager
.-..-Typist
ri .-Assistant

Service Manager
--Bookkeeper
Advertising

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT OMOGAIN tsitivetince ese tap speeccoespos Manager
J) (Al THOMPSON! 2 eee ananeaanncany\wyin tan OEMANaeet

REPORTERS’ CLUB

IRD, A. M,, Pres. MORROW, G. M.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres. O'CONNOR, E, P.
APPLEBY, J. M. PARKER, R. 8.
BOWIE, A. Y, PATTON, J. H.
GARRISON, J. M. PITTS, BY.
GIBBS, L. B. RATCHFORD, B. U.

REEN, J. L, EGEN, E. K.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H. ROGERS, G, D
MARSHALL, C. K. THOMPSON, J. B
MOLHOUSE, J. F SHAW, H. I
MILTON, W, SMITH, C. F
MOORE, ‘J. 1

STORY, P, J.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

The wrestlers had a close rub in Virginia,
but they suffered nothing worse than mat
burns. A victory over the Virginia Fechs is
not to be scorned.

MONK, C.F.

DC
Flowers would have been much more ’at-
tractive than paper airships as tributes to
the Queens College Glee Club, The sailing
of paper and the unconventional vocal ap-
lause which came from the small audience is
not altogether approprite to a Davidson au-
dience.
DC

The Life Work Conference conducted by
Dr. Bob King, a staunch son of Davidson, is
one of the brightest spots in the spring cal-
endar, Davidson welcomes Doctor King, a
man who appeals to men, and whose words
sink deep into the heart.

DC

What is the sentiment ofthe student body
with regard to the appropriation of the stu-
dent store funds? Should this money be
devoted to the upbuilding of the publica-
tions? If you think the Davidsonian, the
Davidson College Magazine, and Quips and
Cranks deserve this student aid, say as much
to members of the student council, operators
of the store.

DC

Today is none too soon to start thinking
about Spring elections! Will you take a
few moments to consider a man’s qualifica-
tions for office before you cast your vote, or
is it your policy to vote for the mot popular
man! Start thinking now about the men
who can best shape the destinies of David-
son for the next year.

DC
A WILSON MEMORIAL

The movement inaugurated by prominent
citizens of North Carolina for the building
‘of a Woodrow Wilson monument on the
campus of Davidson College should become
popular throughout all of North Carolina.
There is little doubt that the citizenship of
the state will cheerfully contribute the
twenty-five thousand dollars, the amount
suggested by the originator of the move-
ment, and that a memorial will be erected
somewhere in the state.

Davidson has been pointed out as the
logical place, because of the fact that Mr.
Wilson was more closely identified with
Davidson College than any other institution
in the state. It is entirely fitting that some
lasting tribute be raised for America’s
greatest statesman on the campus: where he
began the education which was destined to
make of him one of the greatest scholars of
his age.

The students of Davidson appreciate the
efforts of Mr. Wilson’s friends and admirers
ute, locate.the prepesed. monument om the

Davidson campus. It. would be an honor to

avidson as well as to the Champion of

World Peace. :

Open Forum

(This department is. conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems, The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

THE RIGHT SPIRIT

That indefinable thing, college spirit, is the key-
stone around which the life of the college student
is built. We have long prided ourselves here at
Davidson on “the Davidson spirit” which involves
the ideals of loyalty to Davidson and courtesy to
others. Now, the question confronts us, “Are
we living up to the ideals embodied in ‘the David-

PE

son spirit?

Now, as never before, the question is being”

raised —and justly—as to whether the Wildcat
spirit is deteriorating.

The conduct of Davidson students at games has
caused grave doubts to arise in the minds of
visitors as to the highness of Davidson ideals and
the limits of Davidson courtesy.

No man likes to be accused of disloyalty to his
college, but he is disloyal when as a spectator at
an athletic contest he applauds or jeers the
decision of the officials. We certainly think little
of a man who applauds during a football game,
when the other team is penalized; or who hisses
the referee when his own team is penalized. And
yet during the past football season, the warning
“sh * which would spread over the stands to
drown out the few shouts of applause when the
opposing team was _ penalized proof that
Davidson courtesy was not hundred per

was
one

“cent strong.

There should have been no need for that re-
straining “sh " T’saw the Davidson-Carolina
game at Chapel Hill and when Dayidson was
penalized a hush fell on the stands, which was not
broken until play was resumed.

In every branch of sport, the showing of ap-
proval or disapproval toward the referee's de-
cisions is looked upon with disfavor by every-
one. The game with Wake Forest last Thursday
night was marred by the hoots and jeers of the
students who were dissatisfied with the dicisions
of the referee. Some of us were even so dis-
courteous as not to quiet down while Wake
Forest was shooting fouls, an inexcusable breach
of courtesy.

The referee, the Wake Forest players and also
our own players were not given a square deal. It
was a game of many fouls on both sides but some
of us were so bind as to see only the fouls made
by Wake Forest. When fouls were called on us,
we did not even allow the Baptist players a fair
chance to cage the shots. We refused to quiet
down to give the visiting team a fifty-fifty chance.

Some of our-players made the statement after
the game,—and I agree with them,—that it was
one of the most fairly refereed contests ever play-
ed on the gym floor. The jeering of the unthink-
ing students did not help them to play better, it
rather hurt them. :

Another courtsy which is the right of every
visiting team, is that we refrain from “personal
rooting.” Personal rooting has no place in the
intercollegiate athletics. Every man on visiting
teams should be respected, Jeering an opposing
player, because of some physical characteristic,
for awkwardness or some mannerism, or for any
other reason, is the lowest violation of the sports-
man’s code.

Whatever we may do, let us respect the oppos-
ing players. In the Florida game, a substitute
who entered during the final minutes was booed
through he remainder of the game.

In the wrestling match with Carolina, Poin-
dexter was treated with the utmost discourtesy.
His every action was hooted and jeered by our
students. In the Wake Forest game, men who
were put out on personal fouls were booed.

Is this the Davidson spirit of courtesy to
others? Cannot we at least come up to the levels
of-courtesy-set-by other colleges ?

Another question of courtesy comes up—
courtesy to visitors. At the game between
Mooresville High School and the Freshman team,
a High School student who paid his two bits ad-
mission entered the building and walked across
the corner of the floor to a seat. As he stepped on
the floor yells greeted him and continued until he
was safely seated.

How would we feel if we should go up to
Mooresville and be booed when going to see a
game? What kind of an impression will such
treatment leave as to Davidson men? Will the
high school boys want_to enter a school where
such discourtesy is shown to visitors?

Between the halves of the Wake Forest game.
several visitors stepped on the floor to shake
hands with the Wake Forest subs who were shoot-

ing goals. They were promptly hissed off the
floor.
Such have been the examples of Davidson

courtesy (?) which we have shown visitors on
the hill at the games. Such has been the poor
spirit which we have shown to referees and visit-
ing officials.

Impressions are easily formed but:tkey are hard
to break. Should we not take more care of our
conduct so as to produce a better impression on
visitors. If we can’t be gentlemen at all times let

us at least be gentlemen before others.
A little more courtesy would be well. worth
while.

CHONG.

ON THE WARPATH

On first reading our friend Galloway's article
in these columns last week we agreed with him
to some extent but after several days of listening
to campus talk and thinking ourselves, if our fel-
low classmate will grant the writer ability to
claim to use that faculty, we are compelled to take
issue with him on several points.

His intentions were undoubtedly of the best
many of his premises were true but his conclu-
sions were false. To say that the Davidson Col-
lege student body does not use its head in chapel
is one thing but to follow that with the wholesale
denunciation that we are hopelessly unprepared
to meet the problems of life is another.

Every man has his place in life. Some are
born to be literary geniuses while others have
more material, and may I say more. practical
minds. To the former “dadism” is bread and but-
ter, 20th century paintings are divine, “Madame
Bavary” is the last word but because the latter
are not frenzied on the same subjects is no proof
that they will be a burden upon the common-
wealth for life. Does a man’s interest in “ego”
or “bug” make him totally “unfit for the prob-
lems of life?” Yet our classmate seems to draw
that conclusion. How prone we are to enlarge
our own fields of endeavor, at the same time
minimizing others.

Has our friend the right to take a few external
impressions and draw such condemnation from
them? Of course a certain small percent of the
student body lives as he has portrayed but can
he logically apply the same accusation in an
article entitled “To the Davidson Student Body"?

Why so pessimistic? © The world has gone on
with success for lo, these many years and_ will
continue to progress with the educated men at
the helm in spite of the hectic doctrine decried in
every age by some groups of radicals that “times
ain't what they used to be” and “the young ‘uns
have gone to the dogs.” For my part I rejoice in
the belief that the Davidson College student, and
by that term T mean the student body as judged
by the majority, beneath his thin layer of in-
difference really faces problems, really thinks of
his. life career and really will in the course of
time “carry on” in the vast arena of life where
his forefathers have fought—and won.

Is our impressions really so “rotten”? A very vile
term my friend to fling at over 500men. If it is the
case we have the public buffaloed. How can men
of influence, prominent speakers of character
stand before us and make statements to the con-
trary? Are they pure liars or just deceived?
With the percent’of religious men on the cam-
pus that are now here can they emit such a stink
as to be described as “rotten”? But granting for
the sake of argument that our impression at
times is not the best does such a thing prove the
character ofthe men beneath? Woodrow Wil-
son personally was not liked; even his warmest
admirers say he left a poor impression at times
but what of the man himself?

He asks us what we came to college for? Some
few, as he states, don't know, but the majority do
know why, and the reason is other than that of
our friend and critic. His ambition is a literary
career, high and noble of course, but some of us
common folks live for other reasons. Lessons
are foremost but even a literary genius without
horse sense is surely “unfit for the problems of
life.” There are other things besides books, para-
mount among these are associations with our fel-
low students. It enables one to “rub elbows with
the world.” Does he ever hear other opinions be-
sides his own—mostly radical misconceptions
formed from an idealistic Utopia? The bull ses-
sions on which he reflects are other besides pure-
ly athletic in nature. May the patron saint of
this venerable institution pity him if after four
years within her walls that is the only kind in
which he has engaged.

Davidson College is “narrow and blindly con-
servative.” This is one way of expressing it; if
he wishes to put the college’s stand in those
terms far be it from me to object. Thank God
that in this day and time of chaos, discontent and
radicalism, particularly among the college stu-
dents of America, there is one institution that
can still hold its head above the rabble and with
skirts unspotted by the world remain fast in the
doctrines and principles of our Church and of our
God. Thank God again that our religion is -not
weak and blind as he intimates but instead can
stand on its feet in the open air. It is standing
here in that manner today and will continue to
do so in spite of his declaration that we Scotch-
Irish Presbyterians are narrow and blindly con-
servative.

The recent action of the two upper classes
answers decidedly in the negative the question,
“Do you accept authority blindly?” Whether the
classes were right or wrong does not enter here but
we might at this time change the wording of his
distinction between a wise man and a fool into
saying that the former weighs facts is blinded
by his-own narrow, personal, petty views and
saying that the former weighs facts and recog-
nizes the truth, while the latter while attempting

«ta_weigh-facts is blinded by his own narrow,, per-

sonal, petty views and prejudices into accepting
the false—believing it true.
(Continued on page 5)

Chaff

THE RABBIT’S FOOT

(With apologies to Vachel Lindsey)
The people roared loud,
The peoplé roared louder,
The people roared loudest
Hurray! hurray! hurray!
Into thé ring stepped Battling McClesky, the Irish
champion out for blood, :
Then came Jackson, theyblack-skined challenger,
and to the champion came in a flood,
“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, Mumbo Jumbo
will hoodoo you, will hoodoo you——”

Jackson and McClesky,

Jackson and McClesky,

Jackson and McClesky,

Boom! boom! boom!

As the bout opened the champion trembled, for
he saw there hung from the challenger’s
belt, :

A furry rabbit’s foot, mysterious emblem, and
once again those strains he felt—

“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, and all of the
other gods of the Congo,

Mumbo Jumbo will hoodoo you—”

The rounds reeled by,

The rounds reeled by,

The rounds reeled by,

Biff! biff! biff!

The champ grew dazed, and his senses reeled, for
he could not find his target,

And Jackson floored him in the ninth and he went
to the mat like a bullet,

For “Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, and all of
the other gods of the Congo,

Mumbo Jumbo will hoodoo you, Mumbo Jum-
bo will hoodoo you—”

“One"—boomed the referee,

“T'wo'"—boomed the referee,

“Three’—boomed the referee,

Zoom! zoom! zoom!

Still on the canvass, under the arclights, Battling
McClesky caressed the cold mat,

Over him stood his dark skinned opponent, while
through his brain flashed the same old re-
frain,

“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, Mumbo Jum-

*” bo will hoodoo you, will hoodoo you—”

“Four’—barked the referee,

“Five’—barked the referee,

“Six’—barked the referee,

Bow! wow! wow!

Then with a groan the old Itish champion,
writhed on the mat in a frenzy of pain,

Turned and looked into the face of the referee,
forgetting the curse of the old refrain,

“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, Mumbo Jum-
bo will hoodoo you, will hoodoo you—” -

‘“Seven"—snapped the referee,

“Eight"—snapped the referee,

“Nine’—snapped the referee,

Yip! yip! yee!

Swiftly jumped up the groggy champion, and into
a clinch the battlers flew.

“Break’—the champion reeled—but the gong
stopped the black—and in his corner he
heard anew,

“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, Mumbo Jum-
bo will hoodoo you, will hoodoo you—”

The seconds flashed past,

The seconds flashed past,

The seconds flashed past,

Clang, clang, clang

Back in the ring for the final round, the champ

played safe as the black man charged.

Then McClesky cried aloud for joy, for Jackson’s
rabbit foot lay on the floor,

And no longer did he hear the refrain—*Mumbo
Jumbo will hoodoo you, will hoodoo—”

The champ socked hard

The champ socked harder

The champ socked hardest,

Biff! bam! bim! '

Down to the mat went the terrified Jackson,
down to the mat for the count of’ ten.
McClesky was filled with hysterical laughter, and
cried aloud from the slaughter pen—
“Mumbo Jumbo, god of the Congo, Mumbo Jum-

bo will hoodoo you, will hoodoo you—NOT !”
For gone is the power of the Mumbo Jumbo,
Gone is the power of the Mumbo Jumbo
And all the other gods of the Congo—

Boom-lay, boom-lay, boom-lay, boom!”
S. A. D.

Could Vachel himself or the immortal D. A. S.
of Davidson fame, surpass the above production?
Vachel might but D. A. S. is left hopelessly in the
shade by S. A. D.

Charlie’s rabbit foot is still in good working
order. What won the Trinity game last year was
Charlie sittin’ on terra firma waving his old rab-
bit foot, tied with Red and Black ribbon between
the prongs of a rusty-~horse shoe, and yelling:
“Take yo’ time, Mister Booshay, take yo’ time!”

LUNE A. TICK.
e ‘

v
