THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

The Fighting Wildcats

CHARLES N. (NAPPY) DAVIS
D***Football D***Basketball
“Cap'n Nappy” holds a unique position in
the Davidson Hall of Fame, in that he has
won four major letters and has captained
the squads of two major sports. Nappy made
his letter in basketball his first year at Da-
vidson and continued to make it until he
had played his full four years. He ended his
brilliant basketball career last season by
leading the Davidson quintet through a series
of victories. Nappy's position on the bas-
ketball team was center; although when
placed at guard, he shone as brilliantly as at
center. The Davidson five of this year will
feel keenly the loss of such a man as Nappy.
End was the place on the football team
so amply filled by the 155 pounds of Nappy.
He led the team most successfully through
an éxtremely tough season this past fall.
In all the games Nappy was: in the midst;
not only leading the ferocious Wildcats but
fighting fiercer than ever did the namesake
of the eleven. Nappy was a very consistent
defensive player but he was more valuable
on the offense. Many times during the pist
season Nappy brought the crowds to their |
feet as he caught a seemingly impossible pass. |
His work in this respect was especially
notable in the P, C., Carolina State |
games. |

and

Nappy has gained recognition and admira-
tion not only on the athletic field but also
on the campus. He is a member of che Da-
vidson Chapter of Kappa Sigma, and also a
member of Omricon Delta Mappa, an hon-
orary fraternity. In the selection of the

best all-round athlete, to whom the Norris
athletic trophy was to be presented, Nappy
was among the three highest. In the losing
of Captain Davis, Davidson College loses
not -only one of its best athletes but also one
of its finest comrades, and one who was the
friend of every man on the Hill.

RALPH E. (SOOKS) BOGGS

D*Football D*Basketball

|
“Sook” was formerly a resident of Spar-

tanburg, S. C.. but now claims ‘the city of
Birmingham, Ala., as his home.
ceeds Nappy Davis
basketball team; and is possessed with the
same old Wildcat fighting spirit which Nap-
py always displayed. He holds down the
position of guard to the “Queen's taste,”
few men, indeed, being able to penetzate his
splendid defense. Last he the
Wildcat'’s brightest star, and was mentioned
for a berth on the all-State team. Probably
no man in the entire state can hold down his
position more effectively than Boggs. As
captain, he will lead his men against some
of the best teams of the South Atlantic; and
under his excellent leadership the Wildcats
hope to go forward to a successful reason.
“Sook” most ver-
satile athletes, havng played the last two
football seasons at varsity guard on the foot-
ball team. With a height of only five feet
eight inches, and weighing only 160, he has

He suc-

season Wels

is one of Davidson's

Jalways held his own against his much heavier

opponents. Last year “Sook” was one of the
three highest contestants for the Norris
trophy cup which is presented every year
to the most versatile athlete on the campus.
Boggs is a Beta Theta Pi, and, in addition,
is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa
frathernity, which is composed of the lead-
ers of the campus activities.

as captain of this year’s |

Golden Rule Presented
By Frontis in “Y” Talk

Forcefully Urges Future Citizens to
Consider Cause in Politics and
Business

Doctor Frontis, a prominent dentist of
| Mooresville, spoke forcefully at the weekly
| Vesper Service of the Y, M. C. A. here Sun-
day evening as he developed the theme of the
|Golden Rule.

featured by the observance of the Golden

Coming at the close of a day

Rule dinner by the entire student body of
Davidson College, the address was doubly
appropriate.

| “Whatsoever ye would that men should do
| unto you. do ye even so to them,” was prac-
tically shown to be a part of every man’s
life, though he be in business, large or small,
of poltics, local, national or international.

An important part of the speech was de-
voted to the application of the Golden Rule
to the international problems as well as the
hig business interests of the United States.
He showed how it would safeguard the world
against war, racial strife, dishonesty in busi-
harsh feeling em-
ployer and employee and would foster correct
attitude between the youth and aged of the
world.

ness relations, between

A. N. Moffett presided, reading the serip
ture and introducing the speaker of the even
ing, while Carr led the singing. An enter
taining violin solo was given by Lowranee.
Chester Monk and) Paul Patterson led in
prayer.

i Golden Rule Sunday.

| tions,

TRAINING CLASS HEARS
TALKS FROM FIVE BOYS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
held its regular meeting last Sunday in
Shearer Chapel. After singing several songs,
which were led by R. B. Parker, W. FE. Mil-
ton, president of the class, took charge of
the business. W. HH. Lynch reported a repu-

tation to Cornelius. Proposed visits were
suggested to Mooresville. Cornelius and
Charlotte.

Duke was the leader for the afternoon,

The subject was The Golden Rule. Several
followed. Harmon on
Kirkland gave a short
talk on Harvest Blessings. Pritchett spoke
on The Many Blessings Here in Davidson

Next Sunday the subject will be Deputa-
The various members
will prepare talks that they can give before
their home societies while they are home for
Christmas.

speeches spoke

of the class

JUNIOR MANAGERS TO HELP
—OELAND ELECTED
MONDAY
At a recent meeting of the Athletic Coun-
cil the selections for the three men who are
to assist Bub Ocland in managing the 1924-25
basketball team. were made.
with the new custom of electing such men
the council had to use its own judgment as
to the relative ability of the eligible men in
With this aim in view they

In accordance

the Junior class.
selected for the positions Joe Garrison, HH,
C. Lawson and Christenbury. All these men
have shown that to whichever one of them
the nomination should fall next year it will

be in safe hands for a successtul season,

new low prices on all Ford cars.

THE UNIVERSAL CAR

PRI

CES

REDUCED

Effective December 2, the Ford Motor Company announces

A reduction of Twenty

Five Dollars on the Fordor Sedan and lower prices on all
other types make Ford cars even greater values than ever
before.

Motor Company.

NEW

RUNABOUT ---------
TOURING CAR ----------

COURB Bees cccnetaceseae

TUDOR SEDAN

PRICES

----------- $260.00
290.00
520.00
580.00

FORDOR SEDAN

660.00

CHASSIS -----

225.00

TRUCK CHASSIS

365.00

ALL PRICES F. 0. B. DETROIT
These are the lowest prices ever offered in the history of the Ford

car transportation.

Foret Motor Compan:

Detroit

They create a new standard of value for motor

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZ3ev FORD DEALER

Literary Societies

Eumenean
At the last regular meeting of the Eu-
menean Society, W. W. Purdy gave a very
interesting oration on Simple Explanation of

Common Weather Proverbs. P, F. Jones
recounted as current events some of the

world’s latest events. “The regular question
jfor debate was, Resolved, That a two-thirds
vote of a jury constitute a verdict in criminal
On the affirmative, Anderson and
Smith were opposed by Hopkins and Rogers,
of the negative. Ramsey, Hopkins, Jones,
Moffet, and Rogers, discussed the question
from the floor, and arising from this discus-
the following motion proposed,
That ninety-nine guilty persons should go
free rather than one innocent: person be pun-
ished. The motion failed to carry. On the
merits of the question the house voted for the
negative, The judges, Barr, Lyneh and
Bragaw, cast their votes for the negative.

CUSCS,

sion was

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society met at
the accustomed hour on last Tuesday even-
ing. At this meeting the Junior Metrophil-
ian Society, which is composed of Freshmen,
Was taken into the Senior society. The new
men will increase the society roll approxi-
mately 33° 1-3 per cent,

The debate of the evening was between
three representatives of the Senior society
and a corresponding number from the Ju-
hior

Society. The affirmative team was
composed of Pullen, Patterson and Parker,
ot the older men; while arguing for the

negative were MeRae, Martin and Bradford,
The query was, Nesolied, That the tienticth
amendinent, as passed by Congress, should
States,

he ratified by the The Seniors were

awarded the decision by a vote of 4 to 1,

Gracey, the newly elected president of the
society, occupied the chair for the first time.
Atter clearing up old and new business, a
Motion for adjournment was carried by the
house,

Junior Eumenean
Because of repair work in progress in the
Kumenrenin hallothe Junior Society met in the
Phi Hall, December 2nd, and enjoyed a tine
the
meeting to order, Seeretary Christian read

program, President Freeland called
the minutes of the last meeting, which were
approved, and If, A, Hopkins conducted the
devotional exercises, The query for debate
Was, Nesolved, That a three-fourths vote of
a jury should canstitute a verdict ina crimi-
nal case. The affirmative was upheld by J.
M. Murchison, Jr., and R.A. Duke, and the
negative by B.C. Debele and W. K. Gwin.
The judges. D. TH. Howard, Carl O'Shick,
and J. D. Gwin, rendered a 2-1 decision in
The house also voted
Two fine
declamations were given by C. G, Davidson
and Tyree Dillard. R. M. Engle presented
to the society the current events of the past

‘favor of the negative.

in favor of the negative. very

few days,

TWO DEPUTATIONS FROM
HILL DURING LAST WEEK

There were only two deputations sent out
during the past week,
Franklin went
Mount Zion Chureh at
day. He chose for his subject The Mruits of
the Spirit,
anee, and said that a fairly good meeting was
held.

The Methodist Church at Huntersville had
L.. B. Gibbs and Herman Patterson for their
speakers. Patterson chose for his subject
The Power, of Prayer, while Gibbs spoke
on Disciples of Christ. The Methodist church
is small, but the speakers reported a very
good attendance,

Forrest to speak in the

Cornelius last Sun-

He reported a very good attend-

DR. T. W. LINGLE LECTURES
ON SWITZERLAND

This evening Dr. Thomas W. Lingle
will give an illustrated lecture on Switzer
jland, at the high school auditorium.
Fifty-five pictures will be shown, and
Doctor Lingle, because of his. frequent
| Visits to the “Playground of the World,”
and his accurate knowledge of its his-
tory, is peculiary fitted to explain and
interpret them: There will be a nominal
| charge for admission, the proceeds of
| which will go to the Davidson Civic
Club.

* A jomhb ineeunge a latdeke ciecles-of the
Woman's Auxiliary will be held in the
basement of the church on Thursday af-
ternoon. At that time there will be a
Christmas party. ;

