THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

ramble
ushes

- Duke Deceives Davidson

One of the most heinous crimes of the
year has been perpetrated against the|
Davidson student body by a notorious |
Senior. The plot was perfected by a
sometime stud and member of the stu!
dent body. Speedy Walthall is alleged
to have committed many misdemeanors
in the accomplishment of his purpose to!
compete for and win the first prize at
the Peace Oratorical contest held at Dur-
ham last week. These allegations* are!
supported by prima facie evidence. The
evidence as prepared by the prosecuting
attorney is set forth below. The defend-
ant has not been able to get an attorney
to defend him. It is said that Hoo John
and Jethro have already declined to take
the case, it is thought that P. C. Hender-
son is seriously considering defending
him.

On the morning of April 17th Speedy
Walthall, hereinafter known as the de-
fendant, read in a journal from a neigh-
boring city of the Peace Oratorical Con-
test, which was to be held on the 25th in
the city of Durham. On the morning of
the 23rd the defendant announced in
chapel that the preliminaries for the
contest would be held that night. In the
meantime the defendant had already pre-
pared and memorized his speech. The
other contestants in the preliminaries
had only eight hours in which to prepare.

The defendant had already sent in his
name as the Davidson entrant.

The defendant after announcing the
preliminaries went out straightway and
picked the judges.

After he had been picked for the con-
test the defendant borrowed a swallow
tail and put it, together with his tooch-
brush and a box of shoe polish in the
old carpet bag.

The next morning he set out to
to Durham of bull fame.

bumb

When he arrived at the place of the
forensic fray he was informed that he
would have to pay a ten dollar fee in
order to enter the contest. He replied
that if they would credit him for two

» hours he would pay it out of the money
he would reccive for first prize.

The defendant won neither first,
second or third place. As there were
only six speakers the judges did not
bother to classify the other three, but
since one of the other two was a blind ,
man and the other a Hindoo it is cer-|
tain that he got sixth place.

The trial will take place sometime in
the next few days, the prosecution will
be in the name of the student body of
Davidson College. Speedy is supposed
to speak to the young ladies of a near-
by woman’s college. The prosecution is
‘taking steps to keep him from going as
it is certain that it would result in the!
disillusionment of the young ladies as to)

the type of the flower of Southern young |
manhood.

Goat Gets Giddy

Among the names of the greatest in-
ventors of the day will be found the
name, Goat T. Lewis. This illustrious
student of Davidson has invented a|
vehicle which is a cross between a 1903
model Ford and a buggy. It is known
as the Horseless Wagon. This vehicle
has caused much comment and laughter
because it is the only one of its kind in
captivity. The inventor is justly proud
of the production of his master mind.
His associates in the construction of this
new wonder of the age are Worthless
the Williams and Abie Kugler, both mas-
ter MECCANO constructors.

The inventor shows a great amount of
ingenuity in his mechanism because the
front seat of this carriage is the exact
model of a 1925 Sport seat, while the
back seat is of the bygone buggy type.
In explanation of this odd feature the
master reminds his listeners that many
suitors for fair maidens’ hands have
girls of the modern, or flapper type,
while others have the old fashioned girl
as their opinion of the only one, while
many who court two ladies at the same
time have one of each type. The inven-
tor says that each type of a girl prefers
her type of carriage for riding, hence the
new invention. A man who is not able
to own two types of vehicles at the same
time‘has solved his problem at once when
he buys a car of this type.

Orders for the 1925 modef-are being re-
ceived by the inventor on a two weeks’
delivery, An exact model of the new
¢ar_can be seen at any time in front of

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
SESSION 1923-24

Second Semester

MAY | FRESHMAN |SOPHOMORE TUNIOR| 2 ae
Thur A. M. No classes No classes No classes
22 : P. M. {Bible 1 Bible 2 Applied Math. 1 and 2
Astronomy—Geology
Fri A. M. Spanish 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3 and 4 Be
23 “P.M. |French 1 French 2 French 3, Psychology
Philosophy 1 or 2
A.M. |Latin1 — Latin 2 Law—Education 2.
P.M. |Math. 1 Math. 2 Math. 3 and 4, Pol. Science
Sat. Education 1
oy Christian Evidences or
\Church History
Tues, | A.M. [Biology1 Biology 2 — _ __ [Biology 3 and 4
27 P.M. |Phys. and Hyg. 5 e \Psychology 1 and 2
Wed. AMec |e Economics 1, 2 and 3
28 SP e\iee REO Min CMlunn RRO MEG r2eun RE OMIMaGechanded
A.M. |Chemistry 1 [Chemistry 2 (Chemistry 3, 4, 5 6 and 7
Tut pM le Litory 1 = | leronyeroma =
a f | History 4 and 5
~ | A.M. {German 1 German 2 PalGermansss 22s
Fri. Greek 1 Greek 2 Greck 3, 5 and 6
ou | P. M. |Pub. Speaking | saieneae lPolit. Sc. 7, Accounting
sos PAGMGs |e = Physics 1 «| Physies 2, 3 and 4
Sat. | Pub. Speaking oe
31 P.M. |Englisht {English 20 English 30r 4
English 5 or 6

Demon Dope Drives

Since the popularity contest has begun,
Dope Matheson has been spending his
spare time in taking all the physical ex-
ercise that he can in order that he can
be elected the “Ugliest Man” on the day
that the ballots will be marked.

If you will wander out to the athletic
field about six o'clock one of these fine
mornings you will Dope trotting
gracefully around the cinder path, with
a look of determination, mixed with a
longing forthe ringing of the breakfast
bell spread all over his matchless coun-
tenance,

see

The Dope is wishing for the election
day to hurry on, as his room-mate, who
has to accompany him to the track each
morning, has threatened te quit. The
Dope knows that if he loses his trainer
he will lose the votes.

Each afternon finds the said Dope in
the wrestling room of the gym, trying
to learn the seeret of building up a
manly physique, under the competent
coaching of Professor Hippo the Houck.
The Dope says that he firmly believes
that the Woolworth Wrestling Class is
aiding him more than his trips around
the cinder path.

Although it is a secret, the cat is be-
ing let out of the bag, and it is being
told around the campus that the Dope is
building up his physique because he is
going to be married as soon as he can
lind the unlucky lady. He says that he
is going to start out on a shicking ex-
pedition about the tenth of June, and is
going to use the Cave-Man Method of
Approved Love-Making. The Dope is

BAPTISTS BEAT KITTENS IN
SCRAPPY ROAD GAME

As the Davidsonian went to press the

box score of the Davidson Fresh-Wakce |

| Eu News

Forest Fresh game had not been receiv-
ed, but a short summary of the game
was received Monday morning.

The Davidson Wildkittens were out-
played in a hard-fought game on the
Wake Forest diamond on last Saturday
afternoon, The score was 6 to 1, in favor
of the home team. The Wildkittens
were held to three hits, while the Wake
Forest men were able to put across nine |
hits during the nine innings. Sparrow,
of Davidson, made two of Davidson's |
three hits. The feature of the game was |
the ability of the Wake Forest men to,
put across hits that ‘meant runs when
the opportunities presented themselves.

The following is the score by innings:

RHE
Wake Forest Fresh ~---------___ 6 9 3
IDEM Te Ga ey Terai?

Literary Societies

At the Phi meeting, a bill was introduced |
that North Carolina should pass a workmen's |
compensation law. This bill was voted on |
and passed without any discussion. H. M. |
White then introduced a bill that the State |
of North Carolina should build a railroad
from Micaville to Charlotte. A discussion |
followed, by H. M. White, E. D. Brown, J. |
FE. Holshouser, and A. B. Williford. The |
bill was then voted on, but failed to pass.

Walthall Speaks At State
| Peace Oratorical Meet
———aes

‘Chosen as Davidson’s Representa-
tive and Goes to Raleigh

|
The preliminary for the annual Peace ora- |

torical contest for North Carolina, held |
Wednesday, April 23rd, in Shearer Hall, for |
the purpose of selecting a representative |
| from Davidson, was won by D, B. Walthall, |
|with H. L. Shaw as alternate. The follow- |
ing men spoke: Walthall, Shaw, Wharton, |
| Hollingsworth, McInnis, Jim Carr, Harry |
| Price, Al Simpson, and Ray. |

| H. T. Wright, representative of Wake!
| Forest, won the first prize at the State meet |
Friday night. The second prize went to M. |
|A. James, of Carolina, and G. V. Allen, of |
| Trinity, won third prize. -State’s representa-
tive was S, K. Marathe, a native Hindoo of |
Poona, India. Elon’s representative was S. |
M. Lyman, and D. B. Walthall spoke for |
Davidson. |

The subject of the winner's oration was |
A Vital League, in which Mr. Wright spoke |
in favor of the League of Nations. In ad-
dition to a prize of $75, Mr. Wright will
compete in the national contest to be held at
Antioch College, Ohio, later in the spring.

Prof. F. S. Blair, of Guilford College,
secretary of the North Carolina Peace So-
ciety, and Prof. Holand Horton, of the de-
| partment of education at Trinity, had charge
o fthe contest.
of the annual contests.

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Lit-
erary Socicty the clection of officers for the
fall term was held in place of the regular
meeting. The officers who will be in charge
in the fall are as follows: W. C. Ramsey,
president; T. C. Barr, vice-president; W. S.
Woods, secretary; N. G. Patterson, review-
er; A. N. Moffett, treasurer, and N. G. Pat-
terson, forensic councilman,

Under the leadership and direction of these
men it is expected that the work will be car-
ried on from the first of the fall term with
much zeal, and that the standards set by the
new and the retiring officers will be main-

Professor Blair is manager

tained,

THE INFIRMARY NEWS

The men confined to the Infirmary during
the week of the Easter holidays were: Chong
MclIlwaine, Archie Keels, Lewis Glenn, and
J. H. Hall.
troubles and are all out now with the excep-

These men had only minor

tion of Archie Keels.

The case of D. C. Ewing, however, has
been more serious. While home for the
Easter holidays he was taken with an acute
attack of appendicitis. Before he could be
rushed to a hospital his appendix burst and
gangrene sct in. He was operated on Mon-
day afternoon, April 21st, at Long's Hos-
pital, in Greensboro. Since that time he has
been in a serious condition, but it is thought
now that he will pull through all right. It 1s
doubtful whether he will be able to return to
school this year.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES
Talk No. 3

CONFIDENCE

Certain things we tell every cus-
tomer BEFORE he makes his first
purchase.

1, That the woolens we use are the
sort that you will find in suits
priced $20 higher elsewhere.

. That we guarantee ‘‘well made”
clothes (not custom made).

That without complete satisfac-
tion no sale is concluded. We
will refund the purchase price if
you are not entirely satisfied. | ;
Fromthemanycustomers we have
made, it would seem that the
LUXENBERG label plus money
in his pocket is a sufficient induce-
ment for any man to buy clothes

in the LUXENBERG way.

(No. 3 of a series of talks with
tips for men who dress well.)

To take care ofour growing trade, we have
been compelled to open branches at

863 Broad Street
Newark, N. J.

Home store, as always,

841 Broadway
New York City

wat LUXENBERG & Bros.

CENTRAL

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest

HAT SHOP

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

| distinct blonde like himself, be able to meeting for this week will be an election of

very particular in the one to whom he is| Two new bills were then introduced for dis-
to be wed. He says that she must be a cussion at the next regular meeting. The

the parlor of West.

run a Ford, and to milk a cow. The
names of any likely candidates will be
gratefully received by the above men-
tioned,

DIXIE JAZZ BOYS DELIGHT
CROWDS ON CONCERT TOUR

(Continued from page 1)
ovation and encored them many times.
They were on the program four times
but had to give four or five pieces at
cach appearance. Ted Jones and Watt
McCain rendered solos, A popular fea-
ture of the program was Liston Elkins
and Joe Ernest with their comic songs
and guitar accompainnment. The string
orchestra was also encored several times.

Piggy Martin enthusiastically received
when he gave his lecture on Evolution,
and was forced to return to the stage
and preach his sermon on the Prodigal
Daughter. His text for this was taken
from Revolutions 17:76. He appeared
in his usual negro costume.

The fact that ten men put on such a
complete and versatile program, lasting
two hours, speaks highly for the spirit
and team organization of the Glee Club.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss
Mamie Withers last Friday afternoon.
The afternoon was spent in reviewing the
year’s work, which has been a study of
Architecture. The work for the past
year has proved one of the most profit-
able, and most interesting years in the
history of the club.

officers for the first term next year.

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian
Society last week was featured by a spirited
debate on the bill, Resolved, That the United
States Congress should pass a bill excluding
all Japanese from America. D. B. Whar-
ton called for the order of the day and sup-
ported the affirmative side of the question.
A. C. Ray led the debate of the negative.
These were followed by several speakers on
each side, after which the bill was voted
upon by the house and passed by a -unani-
mous vote.

It was decided by the society to contribute
$25 toward the settlement of the intercol-
legiate debating debt.

It was announced that election of officers
for the spring term would be held at the
next meeting.

Pandeinic Literary Society

The Pandeinic Literary Society met on
Tuesday evening, April 22nd. After the
meeting was called to order by the president
a passage of scripture was read and Hudgins
led the house in prayer.

A. H. Hollingsworth presented a bill that
the society should adopt the old plan of
meeting for two terms and the new plan the
last term. It was the understanding that if
the bill passed the house a conimittee would

Deck and S. W. Moore spoke in favor’ of-
the bill. After a full discussion of the bill
it was passed.

The society voted to pay $25 for inter-

be appointed to work out the details., B bred big ne

“It’s on even when it’s off”

(Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize?
If not, what better one can you suggest? Read our offer)

ILLIAMS is a wonderfully
* popular shaving cream. Here’s
why:— It’s heavier, faster - working
lather, the way it lubricates the path
of the razor and eliminates painful fric-
tion, the soothing ingredient which
keeps the skin so smooth and cool even
in daily shaving—these are qualities
men like! .They also like its purity—
no artificial coloring. With the new
Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more
friends than ever before. See if you
ever used a shaving cream as good.

Williams
Shaving Cream

$250 in Prizes

For the best sentenceof ten
words or less on the value
ofthe Williams Hinge-Cap,
we offer the following
Ist prize, $100; 2nd
; two 3rd prizes,
each; two 4th prizes,$10
each; six 5th prizes,$5 each.
Any undergraduate or
raduate student is eligi-
le. Iftwo or more persons

deemed worthy of prizes,
the full amount of the prize
will be awarded to each.
Contest closes at mid-
night Masch 14, 1924. Win-
ners will be announced
as soon thereafter as
possible. Submit any
number of slogans but
write on one side of paper
only, putting name, ad-
dress, college and class at
top ofeach sheet. Address
letters. 23 -Cazis<¢ Zditar,
The J. B. Williams Co.,
Glastonbury, Conn.

collegiate debating expenses.

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
