DAVID SONIAR

~ TreDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 17, 1924

No. 26

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DOWN EMORY STARS AT QUEENS

Davidson Honor Man Wins
Listeners In “Y’” Service

Holder of College’s Highest Schol-
arship Honor Speaks Twice on
Sunday

MISSIONARY FROM CHINA

Interesting Habits of Orientals
Shown in Addresses Dealing
With Chinese

Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, honor man of the
cass of 1907, was speaker at the Y. M. C. A.
vesper service Sunday evening. Mr. Mc-
Laughlin is a missionary, with headquarters
at Suchien, China, and is in America on
furlough.

China’s New Leadership was the subject
chosen by Mr. McLaughlin in his address
before the Y. M. C. A. Acts 4:7-14 was the
scripture for the eevning.

“The leadership of China has been in the
past, is in the present, and will be in the
future a student leadership,” begun Mr, Mc-
Laughlin. “In the past there have been three
great religions around which the other les-
ser religions of that nation were formed.

“The first of these religions was that of
Taoism, and around this were founded other
forms and beliefs. In the time of Taoism the
worshippers were of three kinds. The vast
majority of them were worshippers of ev-
erything; everything was deified. Another
group was the worshippers of nothing, the
out and out atheists, and the third group
composed’ of those who worship God.”

The speaker told of seeing thousands of
people bow down to images of grasshoppers.

“Then came Confucius, the smartest man,
and the man who had the greatest effect on
China of any mortal man. He gave to them
a system of ethics which was far from per-
fect. The influence of Confucian ethics was
seen in the breaking down of moral laws.”

Dr. McLaughlin cited an incident of a'man
betting his wife and losing her to another
man, but because the loser was of a higher
social class than the winner, the wife was
finally brought back to her first husband.
Such practices were the outcome of the Con-
fucian system of ethics.

“The third great religion in the past of
China is that of Buddhism,” continued the
speaker, and in treating of Buddhism he cited

(Continued on page 6)

Sunday Service To Have
Installation of Officers

Young Ladies From Queens and
Symphony Orchestra Will Make
Program Attractive

The Y Service for Junior Week, Sunday,
will have several attractive features, Three
or possibly four girls from Queens will
combine with the Davidson College quartet
to render at least six selections of special
music. Considerable preparation is being
made for this part of the program.

The installation of officers for the coming
year will also be a feature. Ted Jones, as
retiring president, will give a short message
to the student body from his experience with
the Y. M. C. A. work this year. Harry
Price will then say a few words as incoming
president. The charge to the new officers
and the new cabinet will be given by Mr.
Jackson.

The entire symphony orchestra will prob-
ably be present to assist in the singing, which
will lend much to the meeting. Ted Jones
and the outgoing cabinet unite in urging a
large attendance at this the last meeting cf
the year under the old regime.

Glee Club To
Warble Sweet
Songs of Love

Not the least attractive feature of Junior
Week is the entertainment to be given to-
morrow (Friday) night, in Shearer Hall,
by the Glee Club and Dramatic Club com-
bination of mirth, melody and motion, This
marks the first real appearance of the Da-
vidson College Glee Club on their home
grounds, most of their talents and fragrance
having been wasted on the desert air of other
portions of North Carolina, South Carolina
and Georgia.

A prelude by the Symphony Orchestra will
start the program at 8 :00 o'clock, and lasting
for 15 minutes will give way to a one-act
play, The Ghost Story. This play has been
especially well gotten up by an excellent
cast, including three girls from Charlotte,
Misses Charlotte Milstead, Mary Mills Ham
and Mildred Cave. Following the play the
Glee Club and the Dixieland Novelty Seven
will hold full sway until the rafters of the
historic Shearer will syncopate in measured
cadence with the gay melody of the colleg-
jans,

The Glee Club has had a successful sea-
son this term, meeting with immediate suc-
cess at every place played. Critics in
Georgia and the Carolinas haye been loud
in their praise of the distinctive work of the

LISTON D. ELKINS

The retiring editor-in-chief of the David-
sonian has left a record of which to be proud,
to mark his four years at Davidson. Under
his able direction, the Davidsonian has risen
to where it is now one of the livest college
weeklies in the South. Liston Elkins has
excelled not only in journalistic lines, as he
has taken part in two inter-collegiate de-

Davidson artists, whose success is due to the bates, both of them proving a victory for
careful training of Mrs. Baker, from Char-| Davidson, but also in literary and athletic

lotte, and to the fact that each and every activities.

member of the club has taken a personal

pride in the organization. Piggy Martin

has furnished more than enough humor for
(Continued on page 6)

Swatters of Horsehide
Continue Losing Streak

Drop Three Straight Games to Trin-
ity, Guilford, and State—New
Faces in Line-up

After losing to Trinity in Greensboro 5-0,
the Wildcats met the Guilford and State
nines on the home diamond by scores of 4-0
and 10-1.

The game with Wake Forest last Friday
was rained out. Against State the Wildcats
broke their string of 36 scoreless innings
when Simpson drove Sion Alford across the
plate for the lone tally.

Trinity Game

The Trinity Blue Devil nine registered a
5-0 victory over the Wildcat aggregation at
Cone Park,.in Greensboro, Tuesday, April
8th. Jess Sanderson ,twirling for the Meth-
odists, gave up only five scattered bingles,
while Boushee and Laird were found for 11
safeties.

Scoring for the Blue Devils started in the
first frame when Smith opened with a clean
single to left, was advanced on Towe's sacri-
fice, got to third on Turner's single, and tal-
lied when Turner was thrown out at the key-
stone.

The third inning proved fatal to the Wild-
cats. Again Smith opened with a single to
center, Towe sent him to third on another
safety, and Smith counted on Alford’s bad
throw in. Towe crossed the plate a moment
later when S. Alford threw wild to first.
Spikes singled to center, Turner tallied and
Spikes took second on the throw. Boushee
left the mound and Laird turned a double
play on the third play, retiring the side with-
out further scoring. The final run of the
game was made by Spikes in the seventh
stanza.

Several times the Wildcats looked good for

(Continued on page 8)

He has made an impression upon
the campus life by his manifold activities
that will prove ineffaceable, and his mark in
life is certatn to be one of which he can
well be proud.

Six Speakers Compete
In Junior Oratoricals

Contestants Will Speak for Junior
Medal Tonight

The Junior oratorical contest will be held
Thursday night, April 17th. The speakers
that won places were J. M. Carr, L. B. Gibbs,
A. C. Ray, Fred Hopkins, D. B. Wharton,
and A. M. Martin.

Jim Carr will speak on Internationalism.
He predicts Internationalism by conciliation
and arbitration rather than by war.

L. B. Gibbs will have as his subject
Noblesse Oblige, which deals with the white
man’s duty to the negro. $

Archie Ray's subject, The Passing of the
Catiphate, will give a resume of the con-
tributions of the leading nations of the world
as contrasted to the contributions of Turkey
in the past and in the future.

Fred Hopkins will speak on Brotherhood.
In this he will outline a social program for
the church, and show the need for more so-
cial work, i) ee

(Continued on page 2)

1924-25 ANNUAL STAFF

Albert Lake, newly-elected Editor-
in-chief of next year’s annual, Quips
and Cranks, announces his working
staff for the coming term:

Literary Editor A. F. Simpson
Athletic Editor---C. M. S. McIlwaine
Gossiper Editor

Asst. Lit. Editor-_----_- E. A, O'Neal
Atty ditoriesste ae me Pending
Asst: Art Editor_---- G. R. Shaddock
Calendar Editor__-_---- J. R. Earnest

Business Manager------- T. B. Brown

Festival and
Roman Circus
F eature Week

The long looked for has arrived, Spring
holidays and Junior Speaking are here. Pig-
gy Martin and his committee are through
with their plans. Now for their execution.

Junior Week started last night with the
Harold Lloyd comedy Why Worry, at the
gym. It was a good send-off for the occa-
sion, imparting in all the spirit of jollity
which will reign throughout the week-end.

The feature of the program tonight is the
Junior Oratorical contest in which the win-
ners of the try-outs last week will contend
for class honors in oratory,

Friday afternoon will usher in the first
athletics on the bill. The Wildkitten tossers
cross bats with Shelby High, on Richardson
Field, on that day. The night program, For-
mal Night, will be featured by a play, The
Ghost Story, given by the Dramatic Club,
with the assistance of three Charlotte girls.

Saturday morning will feature the step-
ping of the inter-class cinder stars, when a
track meet between the classes will be held.
In the afternoon the Freshmen will meet
Charlotte High, on Richardson Field. Fol-
lowing the game, an outdoor festival and
promenade will be held. It. is hoped that a
Pathe News representative will be present to
film the festival for reproduction here at a
later date.

Saturday night will be the crowning event
of the week. The gym will be the location
of scenes in “ye olden dayes” of Rome, Those
riotous days will be lived over once more,
never to be forgotten by those present.

(Continued on page 8)

Davidson Admitted i
Federation of Colleges
Problems of Student Government

Interests Students at State
University

Davidson College was admitted to mem-
bership in the Southern Federation of Col-
lege Students at its third annual convention
held at the University of North Carolina,
April 10-12, The representatives from Da-
vidson were A, M. Hillhouse and J. M. Hen-
drix, president and president-elect of the
student body. Maryland and Mississippi were
also received ‘into membership along with
Davidson. About 35 delegates were present
at this convention, representing 20 schools
in nine different states.

The convention was opened Thursday
morning with an addres of welcome by Pres-
ident Chase, of Carolina. The various com-
mittees were then appointed; Jim Hendrix
-was appointed chairman of the Problems
committee. Thursday evening was taken up
| Principally with a discussion on college pub-
| lications, led by Reed Kitchens, president of
{the Publications Union of Carolina. This
| discussion included the questions of financing
{college publications, and of giving credit in
! English for work done on such. The dele-
| gates were entertained with a banquet at the
| Presbyterian church’ Thursday night.
| Friday's session was devoted to a discus-
| sion of the vital problems concerning Under-
Vretiats Government, including Student Gov-
ernment, Honor System, Drinking Problem,
Dances, Moral Conduct, and an organization
to meet visiting athletic teams. It was voted

school.
A number of delegates requested that the
Federation send delegates to their schools to
(Continued on page 3) :

in favor of placing the drinking problem in |
the hands of the Student Council of each
lever, Harry's steadiness failed to cope with

Fiery Arguments of Wild-
cats Win Over Georgians
Elkins, Cox, and Story in Best Fo
of Year Give Georgia Creches
Battle of Forensic Art
RUHR QUESTION IS DEBATED

Maxwell is Star of the Emory De-
baters in Contest Held Last
Friday .

Davidson College won her second inter-
collegiate debating match for the scholastic
year last Friday evening, when she defeated
a team from Emory University, in the audi-
torium at Queens College. The decision of
the judges was 4 to 1, The subject discussed
was, Resolved That France Is Justified In
Her Occupation of the Ruhr, Davidson up-
held the affirmative side of the argument.

P, J. Story, L. D. Elkins and W. M. Cox
represented Davidson's team, and J. Q. Max-
well, M. Rose and H. M. Bullock were lined
up for Emory. The judges in the debate
were Walter Clark, Jr.. Wade H. Williams,
Bailey T, Groome, and Joseph S. McRae, all
of Charlotte, and John G. Wray, of Gastonia.

Paul Story opened the debate for David-
son and the affirmative, giving a brief his-
tory of the question and presenting the isues
of the debate. He proved that France was
legally justified in her occupation of the
Ruhr, stating that the Treaty of Versailles
gave her the legal right, as well as did the
League of Nations. He gave quotations
disclosing that Germany was in default, and
with the Versailles Treaty showed that this
was voluntary default, automatically giving
France the right to occupy the Ruhr, “From
a matter-of-fact standpoint, and from a spe-
cific and technical point of view, France is
legally justified in her action,” he averred.

J. Q. Maxwell opened for Emory, and he
is conceded to have been the best speaker for
the Methodists, displaying a knowledge of
his speech and better speaking ability. He
proved that France was acting illegally, and
he defied the affirmative to show that Ger-
many had even been declared in voluntary
default.

Before Liston Elkins began his main speech
he read an order of the reparations commis-
sion which declared that Germany was in
voluntary default, and authorizing France

(Continued on page 6)

Colgate Tennis Sharks
Win Over Red and Black

Easterners’ Flashy Play Proves Un-
daing of Wildcats Monday—
Price Plays Well

The Colgate University tennis team de-
feated Davidson's racketeers, Monday after-
noon, 4-2; dropping but one singles match
and splitting the doubles. The match was

featured by Harry Price’s nervy stand
against the terrific onslaught of R. T.
“Trend” Young, Colgate’s lead man. The

New Yorkers’ splendid team play against
Price and Staley in the No. 1 doubles also

| provided thrills for the spectators.

Price sprang a surprise in his match
against-R. T. Young, who is a comer in Ju-
nior ranks back East. Harry played his ground
strokes too short in the first set and Young's
forehand swept him to a loss, 6-3. He came
back decisively in the second go and by skill-
ful fore-court work ran it out at 4-6. How-

the speedy serve and the heavily-topped drive
that Young was putting over and the Col-
(Continued on page 3)

THRICE WELCOME, VISITORS TO JUNIOR SPEAKING
