THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924 3
|r
| |FOUR VOLUMES ARE ADDED! @]2]5====ee=Eeeeem
|» TO SHELVES OF LIBRARY WRIGLEYS
’ e \
Have you paid | Several new and interesting books have
recently been obtained for the library. Of i
your subscrip- these the most interesting is probably Japan Take it home to
In World Politics, by K. K. Kawakami, the kids.
® | whose loyalty to the United States has led °
tion to | him to an investigation of Japan’s attitude Have a packet in
to America. He explains the causes of your pocket for an
Th Japan's friendship for America being impair- ever-ready treat.
e ‘ed and shows how unreal they are. He then | sae
é x examines the reasons leading toward a re- A delicious confec-
Davidsonian stored friendship between the two nations tion and an aid to
and finds them advanced by every mutual the teeth, appetite,
agreement, digestion.
? Albert Leon Guerard’s French Civilization |
gives a rapid and brilliant survey of French
Norton: What kinda hair cut yer! life size model of a tramp and it wouldn't civilization from its origin to the close of
e want, sir? work. the middle ages.
Freshman: One with a hole in it like One of the most interesting pictures of |
most of the profs are wearing these days. |ry]] many a quart of purest gasoline the war is given in Friends of France. It
VAUDEVILLE — The dark, unmeasured tanks of service , portrays the field service of the American |
Iklestown, Friday Nite. stations bear, Ambulance as described by its members. The
MUSICAL COMEDY | My dear boy Okey: : While many a motorist is stalled to cuss field of service of the Silly arate
PICTURES i es tee a ae S unseen, is the most adventurous part played by
| a sending ah check for five dollars, And waste his anger on the midnight air, Americans in the great struggle and these
| but forget to put it in de letter. eee stories of actual experiences by its members _ WJ7//ae
Abie say tell you his papa has sold de ; ; F ; f . are very inspiring.
— horse what can run de mile in de short Dick MeMillan is especially fond of Another notable addition is the Letters
distance. If you pass all de voik papa ‘“S#? Years, as they Be him Ne and: Journals of Thomas Wentworth Higgin-
: want you to come home to help wid de day to brag about Dick McMillan, son, an incomparable picture of America’s Charlotte
fire sale ve vill have atter our next fire. NNT literary, political and social life through a
Your papa, “Firpo” Allison, alias our own beloved period of more than half a century. Transfer Company
HEPA CANLIGon, Okey, got in bad down at Charlotte the PHONE 298:
; other day!~He is not nearly so mean as | |
ne ; re see! Ren i | BE A NEWSPAPER CORRES-
vee 1e looks but the Charlotte Police evident- | 4 5
THEATRE For Sale: One dozen decks of playing ly do not know this. They arrested him PONDENT with the Heacock Plan BAGGAGE
cards and twelve sets of poker chips. | for carrying conéealed weapons just be- and ehNTN t good mcome while learn- AN D TAXI
! Count Sill, cause he walked down the ‘street with IN&s we show you how ; begin actual 1D a
: Hisehste in tieockae | work at once; all or spare time ; ex- SERVICE
rae MGstwannery FecicraKd fe cee perience unnecessary; no canvass- |
_—., | Stout Montgomery registered a de ing; send for particulars. News- JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
= AIA victory for Davidson last week Crown Prince Young caught a bad writers Training Burean, Buffalo, |
winning the opening bout with ease. He cold the other day. He couldn't figure N.Y. |
was wrestling Temptation.on the square. where he caught it until he remembered (en eoaete ee en
, se, that he got his feet wet two weeks ago. H
The Merriest Place Take your choice of the following CAP- —— | College Jewelry
in Charlotte | tions: No, Gertrude, that gurgling sound lO H
sules. that’s giving you that piggely-wiggly feel- An W h d Cl k H
Fresh Ss. ing down your spinal column isn’t what Gf 9 ward atc es an OGKS H
and Bells. you think it is. Shortie Howell’s not that | ens é i A H
’ Handi Ss. kind, he’s only trying to sing to— Stedily i ret Eversharp Pencils Stationery H
J O H N S O N S —tain George. C7 Bet) Ge Parker F in P. H
eS auees each succeeding year arker Fountain Fens SH
College Barbers—Let Us Prove It ail Prof: What is Ohms law. plainly indicate the uni- .,

BARBER SHOP

RONCHITIS

Apply Vicks at bedtime,
rubbing it well in. Then
spread on thickly and
cover with hot flannel.
Arrange bed-clothes so
vapors will be inhaled.

Vicks

APORUB

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearlw

National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

$

4% paid on Savings Accounts
and Certificates of
Deposit

Checking Accounts Invited

The

Raleigh Cafe

‘S

221 West Trade St.

tinum Boggs: Je t’ adore!
Fair One: Shut it yourself,
ain't tied. —Virginia Reel,

your hand

Sparrow is a funny bird,

Wm. Crane’s another one,

And if these are, think of this,—
So must be A, Robinson.

Red McPherson: T pass.
Prof.: No you don't, you flunk.

Funny think ‘bout E. T. Bucks,
He gets his
“ducks.”

smokes by — shooting

A SEARCH FOR IDEALISM IN
THE COLLEGE WORLD

Men live on dreams and rise only in pro-

For poor dead Jones I've this inscrip- | Portion to their ideals. Last month marked

tion:

the passing of the world’s greatest dreamer,

His druggist filled the wrong preserip- Woodrow Wilson, because he endeavored to

tion,

Teacher: Give me a sentence with the
word disguise.

|
| Low-Pockets : Havin’ any girls up for
Junior Speakin’?

Rube: Three; my girl and a couple
other nice girls.

| Piggy: Say, are y’ goin’ to see Scar-
jemodelie Saturday night?

ls

| don’t think [ shall, y’ see I’ve ben there
| several times in my travels and I don't

| Paul Story evidently belives in a safe
|and sane fourth of July. At least, that
lhe takes the precaution to invite nine
| o'clock home-like girls on the hill, was
; demonstrated conclusively when his fair
| damsel dozed off at nine on the dot last
| Saturday night notwithstanding the fact
that she and Paul were indulging in the
picture show.

One-Act Play

| gone—See that sign there: “These chairs
and tables are for our guests”—need um
in my room. (Exit.)—Curtain.

Puzzie Over This

“Reg” Price, prominent young invent-
or, anounces his first failure. He made a

3evo Davis. (who travels a lét): No, 1!

|
|

put his dreams into action, became one of
the world’s immortals. “The men striving
for Utopia are the men who vault a@ver the
heads of their fellows and lead mankind a
step nearer the Master.

“Striving to better, oft we mar what's well,”
are never the ones to leave their names a
shining light to posterity nor their “foot-
prints on the sands of time.” Growth is a
necessity, not a desired attribute. Conse-
quently build on your dreams. To set one’s
heart upon a lofty purpose and then attain
it is the highest accomplishment of the hu-
man soul,

Men in
ideals!

college, students, cherish lofty
If you have a secret desire to be a
great athlete; dream of yourself as one.

; 5 .. | Picture yourself leading your team on to
believe that it would interest me a bit. B 3 :

victory. Then, after having seen yourself
as such, go out upon. the athletic field and
work with your vision ever in mind. When
failures and disappointments come, the ideal
that you have set will be of immeasurable
value to you. If you wish to be a leader in
college activities, first of all, see yourself as
such, . By a year of dreaming and constant
work you will some day find yourself the

| president of your student body or of your
IY. M. C. A. Set for yourself the high ideal

of being of service to your fellow-man and |
pray for strength to render that service.

Time: Saturday night. T ; lendid I asia Bale

: 0 set a splendid goal and then fail to

Always has something good | Place: New Central Hotel, Charlotte, reach e is uae A Sa: a failure. Try
for the Davidson Boys. | Characters: Fresh Sapp and Hewett. yet once more, believing with Dr. Johnson

our own advantage and to our school’s. By
striving to reach an ideal, Wilson won the

| highest regard a citizen of America ever |
| did, and you, too, by building on your mind’s |

imagination, may, nay, will, lead your school
and your college mates on to heights “hith- |
erto undreamed of.” |
H. L. SHAW, Jr. <|

versity man’s approval of

John Ward Men’s Shoes.

A variety of lasts, patterns

and lethers to'meet every

need wil be shown by
A: M. Shimmon at

DAVIDSON
MONDAY, FEB. 11 AND
PARLOR WEST
TUESDAY, FEB. 12

Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark
and Philadelphia ~ Address for Mail
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON

DOES IT RIGHT

: , by >
7 Little Boy: Yesterday when I was Lite is ever-a changes. Those who, agree: thenew CLEANING AND
= | fightin’ dis guy’s brother comes up and]. Sane : ) ee Nii cee Tree BRANROSS oes =
Merchants & Farmers Tnhenelonehe law, ing with the Duke of Albany when he says, $9 PRESSING

Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos
and Pianola
Reproducing
Pianos

Player Piano Rolls

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and
Interior Decorations

We Make Designs and Erect
Draperies and Carpets for
Homes, Lodge Rooms
Society Halls, Ete.

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It isa leasure to (Fresh Sapp makes wild break for]that “To have attempted. much is always ar :
serve hee high door). laudable, even when the enterprise is above | PR ESCRI PTIONS COM PO U N DED BY
| Hewett: What's the rush—where ya|the strength of him that undertaketh it.” -
tone fellows leaile Finally then, college men, let us not REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
| Sapp: Git a dray ’fore all the stuff’s|Strangle our dreams. May we use thein to |

We carry a complete line of Candies
Stationery and Toilet Articles

“WHITE DRUG COMPANY

