THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

CONSISTENT PLAYING
——— 7-0 victory over the Clemson Tigers.
(Continued from page 1)
victory for Davidson. In this game he and
Vance alone featured for the Wildcats, both
tearing the visiting line into shreds with

their vicious charges.

ter as Hendrix almost alone rushed the ball
down the field and crossed the goal line on a
perfect pass from Sappenfield.

For four times the Davidson
strengthened within the shadows of its own
goal to hurl back the powerful attack of the
University team only to go down to a 6-0
defeat as Hackney kicked two field goals in
the final two minutes of play. .Playing be-

Davidson won the fifth straight game of
the season on October 18th when the Lenoir
team—heavier by 15 pounds to the man—
were given a 45-0 rout on Richardson Field.
Coming to Davidson with half the state pre-
dicting Davidson's home record to be marred,
the Lenoir squad found themselves outplayed
from the first few minutes of the game.
Coach Younger used a multitude of substi-
tutes, all showing up on par with the varsity.

saw a game in western North Carolina, the
Davidson team put up a great fight as for
four quarters it held the fast and heavy Tar

Heels scoreless. The Homecoming crowd '

The first defeat of the season came when,
in the first moments of play, Tilghman, of
Furman University, picked up a blocked punt
and raced across the Davidson goal line,
scoring the first touchdown against the Red
and Black team. The Wildcat team out-
played the Purple Hurricane for the re-
mainder of the contest but were never able
to score, losing 6-0.

With State leading 10-3 and less than four
minutes to play, the Davidson team uncork-
ed a perfect aerial attack that swept down
Pinehurst field yards and tied the
score in one of the most thrilling comebacks
of North Carolina collegiate sports history,
Outweighed 22 pounds to the man on the
line, the Wildcat cleven fought gamely for
three and a half quarters to hold the Wolf-
pack, Sappenfield shifting his attack in the
final moments to the Hendrix and
Black did the receiving. Again Baker played
great ball, his work going down under punts
alone saving Davidson from defeat. Laird's
field goal and try-for-point were the clinch-
ing plays of the game.

With Vance and Baker playing their great-
est defensive games and Hendrix leading the
attack, the Red and Black machine marched

a fight as ever staged on a North Carolina
gridiro.

The 1924 season came to a close as Hen-
drix broke loose time after time in the most
thrilling game of the season to defeat Trin-
ity 21-13 on Hanes Field, in) Durham.
Vance's work at guard was one of the beau-
ties of the game as he came crashing through
to smear the Methodist backs
line of scrimmage.

Davidson scored 126 points to opponents’

38, the Red and Black goal line being crossed
only three times during the while
five field goals were sent over the Wildcats’
heads. N. C. State and Trinity were the only
teams able to score touchdowns from scrim-
mage, each getting one. Davidson scored 17
touchdowns, two fields goals, 14 try-for-
points, while making four points on oppo-
nents’ safeties. |
Averaging only 156 pounds for the eleven
men and with a line of only 160 pounds, the
Davidson team fought throughout the season
against* odds of between 15 and 20 pounds |
to the man on the line. With a low, vicious |
charge, hard and fast, the little Wildcat for-
wards repeatedly took their opponents off
thir feet. Vance and Baker, both promi-
nently mentioned for all-state honors, led the
) Red and Black line, while Captain Davis and
{Boggs played steady games throughout the
‘season, At times others of the linemen broke
into the limelight.
j In the backfield, Hendrix, playing his last
year for Davidson, showed greatest form, his
superb side-stepping and dodging placing |
him in the forefront of North Carolina as
offensive back. Sappenfield was unanimous-
ly selected as quarter on the second all-state
team, as he directed the attack with a cool
head. Black was most reliable man on the
team, playing perfect defensive game and at
all times showing wonderful drive.

72

for
season,

air as

| This is a continuation of the list of books
‘compiled by Miss Shaw for special readiig

on college life. a)
College Publications, Work On
808.01 Bleyer, Willard G,, 1913
B64 Newspaper Writing and Editing.
808.01 Given, John L., |
G53 Making a Newspaper. 1914

808.01 Ralph, Julian,

| R16 Making of a Journalist. 1903

808.01 Ross,:Charles G., |

R82 Writing of News. 1911,
Oe couannst & Mhre 808.01 Shuman, Edwin D., |

$56 Practical Journalism.

808.01 Stevenson, Robert Louis,

St. 94 Learning to Write.
Debating and Public Speaking

808.5 Baker, George P.,

B165 Forms of Public Address.

808.5 Beveridge, Albert J.,

B571 Art of Public Speaking.

808.5 Brink, Charles Mills,

G75 Making an Oration.

808.01 Denney, Joseph V.,

D41 Argumentation and Debate.

808.5 Hollister, R. D. T.,

H744 Speechmaking.

808.5 Mosher, Joseph A.,

M91 Essentials of Effective Gesture.

808.5 Mosher, Joseph A.,

Me Essentials of Extempore Speaking. |

808.5 Phillips, Arthur Edward,

P558 Effective Speaking.

808.5 Winans, James, A.,

Young Men Tell.Us
We’ve Scored a
Bullseye

There’s just the right
swing of youthfulness
in these new clothes
of ours. They say the
styles are flawless,
there’s vigor, life, ZIP
in them.

Mellon’s

W75 Public Speaking 1922
808.5 Winter, Irvah Lester,
W278 Public Speaking. 1923

Q. C. Rice offers as. his. latest song hit:
“Typewriting Mamma, Don’t Try to Tabu-
late Me.”

Cy

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For
Davidson Men

down Wearn Field the following week for a |
The |
winning touchdown came in the second quar- |

eleven |

fore 7,000 fans, the largest crowd that ever |

saw the Red and Black team bow in as game |

behind the |

| bre.

!catcher on the

|
1919 | pired,

1920 | Fort

1917 | the margin of one lone touchdown.

COACH CLARENCE RAWSON

Rawson Great Athlete
at Georgia University

Davidson Fresh Coach Once All-
Southern Basketball Man—Won
Stars in Three Sports

Davidson supporters woyld probably step
into a hornets’ nest if they claimed an undis-

puted title to state Freshman grid honors,.|

but few would dare contradict them if they
boasted the All-State Freshman mentor, For
Coach Clarence Rawson has made a record

in his two years’ stay at Davidson that indis-

putably proclaims him of championship calt- |
He has proved himself a master artist |
not only in the football realm but on the
diamond and basketball court as well.
Rawson joined the Wildcat coaching staff |
in the fall of 1923, coming from Thomasville
(Georgia) High. He had behind him a bril- |
liant record as a college athlete and as a
prep school mentor. While a student at the
University of Georgia, he had been varsity
in both basketball and baseball. He
won the monogram in basketball four years
straight in which sport his stellar playing

star

gained him the position of guard on the All- |

Southern quint. As a diamond artist his rec-
ord is fully as ‘enviable. After being varsity
Georgia nine for three years,
he became first string catcher for the At-
lanta Crackers in the Southern League. He
soon left the Crackers, however, to become

head coach at the famous Georgia Military

| College—one of the leading prep’ schools of

the South. There he turned out state cham-
pion football and basketball aggregations in
six months.

Before his first year at G. M. C.
Rawson answered the call to colors.
While i in the service he was a member of the
Hancock all-star football machine.

| Among the other members of this team were
| two All-American backfield men along with
1901 other famous ex-university prodigies.

Just before coming to the Wildcat lair

1924' Rawson won distinction as head coach at
| Thomasville High.

1913)
| Rawson has won recognition throughout the

1910 | Carolinas as a premier coach in the the three
|major sports—football, basketball and base-

1920 hall.

1916 |son Freshman football team has lost only

Since becoming Davidson's Fresh mentor

During the past two years the David-

lone game to a Tar Heel cleven and that by

In ad-
‘dition to its Tar Heel victims, the Wildkit-

| ten, squad has repeatedly crushed some of the
| Strongest of the South Carolina Freshman
| aggregations.

In his one season with the
basketteers, Rawson developed a quint which
laid claim to state honors and was not dis-
puted.
ed five men to the Wildcat basketball varsity |
squad for 1925, two of whom have already |
gained recognition as the equals of any man |
on the varsity.

Rawson’s proteges were handicapped in
their baseball aspirations by a much-cur- |
tailed schedule. However, their showing in

their three college ARS was highly | son 7.

creditable.

His two-year record as Freshman mentor
in the Wildcat lair fully justifies the state-
ment that there is no more versatile and able
than

Freshman coach in the Carolinas

{Clarence Rawson.

Try this hot one on your radiator:

dumb looking scoundrel to me.”

had ex- |

Wildkitten |

This same aggregation has contribut- |

“You
may be somebody’s darling, but you’ re a

7

FIGHTING WILDCATS COME
BACK

| lost two on an end run which placed the ball
in kicking position. Caldwell kicked a goal
_—_—— |from placement, putting the Blue Devils six
(Continued from page 1) points ahead. Score: Trinity 13, David-
but he shot a long pass to Covington, who | son 7.
;tan to the two-yard line before being down-| Lagerstadt returned Blacks’
led. Jim Hendrix then carried the ball over | yards to the 20-yard line.
for his second touchdown of the day. The
score was tied 13-13 when the teams lined | son’s 45-yard line. Laird kicked out of
up for the try for point. Pandemonium bounds on Trinity's 30-yard mark and Trin-
broke loose as Laird sent the Wildcats into | ity made first down. Sappenfield returned
the lead with a goal from placement. | Lagerstadt’s punt 10 yards to the ‘35-yard
The final touchdown followed in quick or-| line. The Wildcats could not gain and Laird
der. On the second play after the kick-off | punted 25 yards to Trinity’s 45-yard line.
| Trinity fumbled and Laird recovered on the! The Wildcat forwards stopped Lagerstadt
| 22-yard line. The Trinity line crumbled, and | and he punted 55 yards over the goal line.
pi five plays the little Red machine carried | Hendrix made one yard as the quarter ended.
the ball across for the third time. Jim Hen-| Then it was that the Wildcats opened up
idrix and Wick Black carried the ball al-!their offensive which netted two touchdowns
| ternately, and on the final plunge Wick | jand the game.
| crossed the goal line with yards to spare.| For the Blue Devils, Lagerstadt was the
| Laird again kicked goal and the score stood | outstanding star. He made practically all
| 21- -13. lof Trinity's gains, and gave the Wildcats
| The Blue Devils opened up a feverish for- | trouble during the first three quarters. Cald-
| ward passing attack, but Hendrix intercepted | well’s toe was responsible for seven of the
|a pass and the Wildcats started another drive | Methodist’s points. Gregg, at tackle, played
| into Trinity territory which was halted when | a stellar game in the line, and proved a hard
| Trinity recovered a fumble. Again the Blue/man to take out. Fumbles cost the Blue
Devils opened up, but Lagerstadt, who dur- | Devils heavily, inability to hold the ball giv-
‘ing the first periods had been a human bat-| ing the Wildcats several scoring chances.
tering ram, had shot his bolt, and the Jones; Captain Nappy Davis led his team to vic-
machine was doomed. Popsy Hunt inter-| tory for the last time, and wound up a bril-
cepted a pass on the five-yard line and ran |liant four-year career on left end. Jim Hen-
20 yards before being downed. Hendrix car- | drix, who also donned his moleskins for the
ried the ball to midfield on three rushes as | last time, was the center of the Wildcat of-
the game closed. lfensive, his broken-field running and _ line-
With seven games won and one fought to| plunging aiding in the Wildcat triumph.
‘a draw out of 10 starts, the Wildcats who | Wick lack, the same old steady, reliable
jleft Hanes Field had stamped themselves as | fullback, always there with the needed yard,
‘the greatest Wildcat eleven since the wonder | and one of the best defensive backs in the
team of 17 which scored on Tech and beat | state, scored the last touchdown for the Red
Auburn, winning six out of 10 games on the| | and Black machine.
hardest schedule a Davidosn team has ever |
jundertaken, Eight fighting Wildcats played | on the receiving end of forward passes, Red's
their last game under the Red and Black: ! work leading up to the pass which Ted car-
Captain Nappy Davis, Jim Hendrix, Popsy | ried over 30 yards to the two-yard line.
Hunt, Sook Boggs, Sam Summers, Bill Mc-| Sappenfield gave a well-nigh perfect ¢xhibi-
Aulay, Red McComb, and Phil Cox. | tion of generalship, running his team with
Wildcats and Blue Devils took the field at snap and precision.
|2:30 for the game which would make or! Vance, at guard, played a great game,
| break the season for each of them. A loyal | throwing Lagerstadt behind the line several
|band of 100 Davidson students, backed by!times, and breaking up Trinity plays
!more than half the crowd of four thousand | throughout the game. His ‘collarbone was
| spectators, sang O! Dazwidson as Black kick-| broken in the final minutes and Boggs, who
,ed to the 30-yard line. Lagerstadt made first | had wrenched his knee early in the game,
own, after which Trinity was forced to kick.| went back in limping. Joe McConnell’s
The wind+was against Leggette and Trinity | pass-work was flawless, as usual, and Tom
received his punt on Davidson's 43-yard line. | Baker, though unable to use one arm, made
After a first down Lagerstadt’s place-kick | many tackles and was in every play. Laird
failed and it was Davidson's ball on the 10-| played a great game at tackle, and while his
yard line, Lagerstadt returned Leggette’s | puriting was erratic, he was credited with
|punt to Davidson's 45-yard line. After an! several for 50 yards. Every Wildcat did
interchange of punts Trinity started an ad-|his part and to mention the stars would be to
vance fron’ the 43-yard line, with Lager-| name the men who played.
stadt leading the attack, which netted three -

kick-off five
Davidson held and
Lagerstadt kicked out of bounds on David-

|
|

Red McComb and Ted Covington starred

first downs, and placed the ball on the 10- | EXCHANGES

| yard line as the quarter closed.

| Johnston and Lagerstadt made six ya | : ; “ ey
J Bers Mean yards The National University of Mexico

on three downs, and Johnson bucked the ball
}over on the fourth down, Caldwell kicked |
goal, and the score stood, Trinity 7, Davidson |
‘0. Caldwell kicked over the goal line and}
the ball was put in play on the 20-yard mark.
| Jim Hendrix made first down on two plays.

Laird punted 50 yards to Lagerstadt, who! . :
J : ‘ : ' g 5 1 s hardly excelled
returned 20 yards to his own 40-yard line. Pact atiae the JB CUya Eun heae x

: 4 Re ee anywhere and a reat’ variety of
Davidson recovered a fumble in midfield, and | » 3 : Be 1
; : |courses are offered. The university al-
Black and Hendrix made first down on the | so includes many sightseeing trips to the
37-yard line. On the second play Jim Hen- |” : eS 2 ;
ni i : | students, to the various places of interest
drix broke away for 36 yards and a touch- |

down, It was a wonderful run, The flashy ORAL NISS:
Wildcat half started around right end be-
hind perfect interference. Cutting in he
dashed down the sidelines for 10 yards, only |

|which since 1921 is maintaining a sum-
jmer school for students and’ teachers of
the United States, announces that pros-
|pects are most favorable for a record-
|breaking attendance the next summer.
It’s immense popularity is due to the

The girl students at Cardiff College

jhave enjoyed their first smoker. Only
girls more than five fect, four inches tall

to be confronted by two Methodist tacklers. jaan admitted. All wore men’s clothes.
As they lunged for him he stopped dead, and | None of the girls smoked pipes or chew-
pivoting to the left raced for a touchdown. | Rdttahacco!
Laird’s toe tied the score, 7-7. It
prettiest broken-field run of the
| Carolina football circles, and one of
‘ever made. The stands gave
ovation as he
kick-off.

Caldwell kieked to Hendrix on the 15-yard |
line. Laird punted 50 yards, and Pinckney
tackled Lagerstadt in his tracks. Trinity |
drove the ball to Davidson's 27-yard line.! hal] fan at the University of Oklahoma,
Caldwell dropped back to the 35-yard mark! js determined not to miss a play in
jand kicked a placement from a difficult | the game so he has purchased two
angle, the ball going over with yards to! ‘tickets, one at each end of the field so
spare. It was still rising when it crossed the he can keep up with the team as it ad-
‘bar. Score: Trinity 10, Davidson 7. | vances up or down the gridiron.

Wells received the kick-off on the 10-yard | Seater eee
| line, and on a criss-cross Hendrix raced to! Plans are under way at Trinity Col-
\the 45-yard line, being downed by the last | tege for the erection of a huge concrete
Trinity man. The half was up before a play \stadium, to. be the second largest in the
| could be run, Score: Trinity 10, David-! South. The Plans are yet pre-mature
but the school has already begun the
| Black kicked off to the five-yard line to undertaking by the purchase of a seven-
Lagerstadt, who fumbled on the 17-yard line,|acre tract of land for the stadium.
McConnell recovering for Davidson. . Three — |
plays gained seven yards, and Laird missed] The North Carolina State Apple Judg-
a place-kick by a narrow margin. On the|ing Team won third place in the Inter-
Second glay Lagerstadt raced 45 yards-to_Da- collegiate Apnle Judging: Covtest held at
vidson’s .35-yard line. Lagerstadt. made it] Atlantic City, November 13th. This is
first down on the 25-yard mark. Lagerstadt|the first Apple Judging team that has
drove to the nine-yard line on two plays. | ever represented State,’ and they are
Lagerstadt made four on two bucks and then| justly proud of their showing:

was: the
year in!
the best
Hendrix
walked to midfield

Statistics show that there are 618 uni-
versities, colleges, and profession schools
{schools in the United States. Of these,
| 50 are in New York State, 48 in Pennsyl-
/vania, and 4o in Ohio, while Texas, the
largest state has 20.

an
for the

They have discovered the prize foot-

