4

THE DAVIDSUNIAN; ‘NOVEMBEKTS: t9za ~*~

-

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Cla

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._.....----..-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-.....—- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

ion on campus problems. The names of the writers |

will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

“O DAVIDSON!”

Year before last, special wording for our col-
lege song, “O! Davidson!” was arranged for a
special occasion; namely, the installation of Phi
Beta Kappa at Davidson, This

| used, however, only that once and probably no

Editor |

cone remembers the words which were used.

be handed in to the Editor |

| environment.

wording was |

The song is worded only for athletic contests, ,
and then for football only, and is therefore not

suited for all occasions unless modified. A friend

this summer, having heardithe music first, seem- |
ed rather disappointed when she found this out; |

she thought ‘that it should be arranged to suit
every need.
Toward the latter part of last year, new words

| in the form of an additional verse and chorus

Cc. F.
W. E. Editor
Cc. F. Editor
A. F. és Editor
i A. LA Editor |
- B. PRICEs=2=.-: As Editor
Hab RSHAW Ai isis Se es eae Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS.. ----Alumni Editor |
15 Di WHARTON sarcicusehiciacceds --Athletic Editor
Business Staff
q: ‘AS THOMPSON scsgr eis eo eee Circulation Manager
» C. McSWAIN. -Subscription Manager
Cc. R. HUNTER. -.-----Bookkeeper
. M. GARRISO -Service Manager
Fae Flt YIN CH ese eo Ce a SO TEN Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB
lL. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. {; *. MOORE
F M, APPLEBY ¢. P, O'CONNOR
; M, AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GA SON E, K, REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH J. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JON L. D, WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WOODS

WELCOME HOME

HIS week the student body has the

honor of welcoming back Davidson’s

old sons on the greatest day which
the college has seen for many a year. No-
vember fifteenth, to which Davidson’s sons
have been*tooking forward with hearts full
of anticipation, is almost with us.

Already we can visualize the spectacle of
the first Carolina game on the Hill, the most
colorful contest of the 1924 grid season in
the Carolinas, for around it centers more
interest than has been bestowed on any
other game. Carolina and State played be-
fore the crowds at the State Fair, but the
game was drab and mediocre. Wake Forest,
State and Trinity have staged some gripping
battles, hut none about which a spell has
been woven like that which clings to Satur-
day’s contest.

The glamor which surrounds the Red and
Black machine, which Coach Younger has
lifted from the depths of mediocrity into
the position it now occupies, fascinates Da-
vidson followers and their opponents. For
coupled with the rise of the Wildcat eleven
are the traditions that Davidson always
fights at her best against Carolina and that
she has remained undefeated at home for
more than ten years. These factors make

the Wildcat-Tar Heel clash the big game of °

the year.

Saturday we welcome you, her sons, back
to her halls, to cheer once more for the team
which is never beaten but always fights to
the last. You may feel that time has irre-
vocably changed the old campus but we
know you will feel that the only change time
has made in the Davidson spirit has been to
revive it more fully in the hearts of all her
sons.

We welcome you back home and hope that
while you are here you will feel at home in
every way. Loyalty has always been a
sacred thing to a Davidson man, and we all,
students and alumnus, will unite in loyally
backing the team which will fight to beat
Carolina Saturday and keep up the defeat-

less record at home for the past ten years.
Welcome home! :

BUMMING

Courtesy riding, or bumming as it is com-
monly known at Davidson has been decried
of late in editorials in the leading papers of
the State. The danger of picking up a
stranger on the road has been shown in
numerous instances during the past few
months.

The most widely known case is the Mc-
Leary incident which took place just a few
miles across the South Carolina line earlier
in the summer. Two men whom Major Mc-
Leary picked’up as a matter of courtesy,
murdered him for-the few dollars which he
had with him at the time.

While the majority of persons who pick
up rides from passing motorists are not of
the type who would commit murder, the
occurrence of such happenings as the Mc-
Leary outrage and others of a slightly less

sensational nature has: tuened:matazixts 3.

everywhere against those who want a lift.
The sentiment of car owners, who formerly,
were glad to pick up anyone, is rapidly

|

were suggested by a member of the Senior Class,
one of the best poets Davidson has had in some
years. The athletic element is not cut out en-
tirely, but it embodies the elements of spirit and
loyalty to our Alma Mater.

The music is beautiful; the original wording is
pretty; the suggested wording is too.

we must scratch beneath the surface of that
sententious little precept or maxim. Too long the
truth that underlies that adage has gone un-
heeded. But it must be realized. To put it sim-
ply, athletics deserve serious consideration by
the college, which realizes that its responsibility
lies in the production of real men, men who are
able to meet and cope with the problem of life
with steady hand and unflinching courage.

The mind can be developed, it can be filled to
overflowing with a wealth and abundance of
knowledge—but it won’t function in an unhealthy
The body, God’s greatest blessing
to mankind must be considered too. Develop-
ment of the mind at the sacrifice of the body
gains nothing.

Mind you, we do not urge the consideration of
athletics at the loss of mind cultivation. There
is a happy medium. But, somehow, that seems
to have been only too recently realized.

Medical authorities agree on the vast benefit
of athletics to the individual, yet there’s a much
broader field for consideration. There’s the asset
to the college, but here’s where we encounter no
little opposition. Here we find those who con-
tend that a winning athletic team is a distraction
to a college rather than an asset. But, facts are
facts.

In the present day, what colleges are more
widely known? The answer is easy! Certainly,

| in this day of advertisement and publicity, it’s

IT do not |

know whether there is any way in which this |

could be adopted or not. But, should there be,
why not add this verse and chorus and have a
college song suited to all occasions.

C. L. B.

ATHLETICS—THEIR PLACE IN THE
MODERN CURRICULUM

It is with a feeling of pride that Davidson stu- |
dents, alumni and friends review the record made |

by the Wildcat gridiron warriors during the pres-
ent season, That valiant little squad of Red and
Black athletes have shown to the world that the
athletic prowess that was once Davidson’s had
not been lost forever. Fighting an up-hill battle
all through the season, against odds that would
have discouraged the most optimistic, they have
carried their banner high. Only once have they
tasted the bitter dregs of defeat, and then only at
the hands of a heavier and more experienced
cleven, They have fought well, they have won
a well-deserved glory; but far better than that
they have opened the eyes of some to the fact
that athletics deserve and must be given their
place in the modern college curriculum,

Some great philosopher has seen that the cause
of too many human catasthrophes lies in the ex-
istence of an over-developed mind in an under-
developed body, and he has prescribed for us
the simple remedy, “A healthy mind in a healthy
body.” To get to the theme of this little discourse

picion toward the “Knights of the High-
way.” ;
College students have not been behind in
joining the army of bummers, and the rides
which they have picked up may well be call-
ed innumerable.

Now that motorists are |

waking up to the menace which lurks along |

the highways in the person of bummers,
the man who asks for a ride is regarded as
a potential thief or murderer—and not with-
out some just cause.

The day of bumming has passed, in the
opinion of leaders of society, and promis-
cuous requests for rides by college students

reflect adversely both on the student and on |

the college. At Davidson, passing motorists

have probably taken more boys to Charlotte | quite a number of literary sparks beginning to

than the bus lines and railroads combined |

since the new road was opened up last
spring.

Expressions of disfavor and criticism of
the practice have been heard on every hand
and the State press has realized the im-
portance of the situation.

The fact that many boys believed they |

could catch rides last Saturday is the reason

that no special was run Saturday*to Char- |
lotte for the Clemson game. The train gave | students, and to leave the Magazine next year
lower. rates than the buses but because of |

the bummers bus rates had to be paid. There |

is no doubt that the failure to run a special
to Charlotte is a blow to college spirit, for
few things can compare with the unified
spirit evident on specials at former games.

Thus bumming has disadvantages both to
the bummers and to the person who picks
him up. The coaches felt last spring that
the ease with which the boys could catch
rides to Charlotte hurt spring football prac-
tice immeasurably. There is a’ difference,
it is true; between asking.a man who is get-
ing into his car for a lift, and hailing a pass-
ing car, but the principle.is just the same.

There may be times when bumming is im-
perative, but the man who rides on others
svst for the pleasure of gaining free trans-
portation is'a social parasite. Let us think
whether courtesy-riding should be practiced
except in cases of necessity.

| ton, essay department.

not the college with the losing team or the uni-
versity with no inter-collegiate athletics at all.
It’s the school with the athletic team that forges
steadily ahead in the eyes of the observers.

The next supposition is natural. To what col-
leges do the most desirable men—not necessarily
uthletes—go? Of course, to those colleges of
which they have read and heard the most.

A new era has come at Davidson, the awaken-
ing has followed, the torch has been lighted; and
the flame that has been kindled is not one that
soon will die!

A DAVIDSON ANTHOLOGY

The Davidson College Magasine is pursuing a
policy this year that is both commendable and
reproachable. Those who have high hopes of
having their literary efforts. published in the
Magazine this year will no doubt be grieved to
hear that there will be but one hundred-page
issue this year instead of four fifty-page issues
as has been the policy in the past. On the other
hand, a shout of approval will come from those
who are interested in the financial welfare of col-
lege activities, especially of publications. At the
beginning of the year the new staff of the Mag-
azine found itself with a considerable debt on its
hands left over from last year. As the other pub-
lications were in a similar plight of worse degree,
the staff decided not to call upon the student
body for an extra assessment. Furthermore, they
decided to leave the field of entertainments and
advertisements more free for the Annual and
Davidsonian, This leaves the Magazine no finan-
cial source except the blanket fee upon which to

; : : | draw during the fall term, but by Christmas the
changing to an attitude of distrust and sus- |

Magazine debt will automatically be paid off by
this fund from the blanket fee.

Yet the Magazine is not completely falling down
as.a literary force on the campus. The one large
issue which will be published in the early spring
will be in the nature of an anthology of David-
son College literature for this year. The field
from which the material will be chosen will be
considerably larger than that available for or-
dinary issues of the Magazine. Consequenty, it
will be more of a distinction for a writer to have
his articles published in this issue, and the literary
quality of the Magazine ought to be higher than
ever before. Every aspirant for representation
in the Anthology Issue of the Magazine this year
ought to begin work early and write as good as
possible and as muah as possible, as there are

burst into flame on the campus this year. The
heads of the departments of the Magazine are:
R. W. Walker, humorous; A. F. Simpson, short
story; E. P. O’Connor, poetry; and D. B. Whar-
Material should be turn-
ed in to them. :

By publishing this anthology the Magazine
hopes to keep up a high standard for Davidson
College literature, to overcome a financial deficit
without an extra strain upon finances of the

with an open road financially and with a high
literary standard to live up to.

—Confidential Guide—
More or Less Serious :
Examinations, quizzes, girls, monthly reports,
motor trouble.
Comedy and things Like That
Jim Patton trying to play his: trombone in a
telephone booth. Abie’s Irish Rose Blows Her
Nose—(a running drama and quite wheezy).
Eye and Ear Entertainment
Queens, N. C. C. W., G..C€., Salem, etc. (to be re-
viewed later). D
‘is setae il,
Lest We Forget
“Mrs. ‘Professur—O ‘Henry, dear, the baby cut
two new teeth this morning!
A. M. Professor—That’s what you get for let-
ting him play with a knife.

Chaff
Life

(In which Chaff does its best to take off our
national weekly, which is read and appreciated
by all collegians.) :

“While there is Life there’s Strife’
Life Lines

If the vocation of a telephone girl is a calling,
is that of a professor’s a profession?

A prof asked us who was the mother of in-
vention and we told him. But we didn’t know the
father; it was a Mr. Ree.

My girl is only a farmer’s daughter, but. she
knows her okra.

Abie—“Vas you superstitious, Ikie?”
Ikie—“No, Abie, I think nothing of sleeping
thirteen in a bed.”

Life wants to know what has become of all the
Literary Digest straw votes. ‘Farmer Ciderbucket
lows that they hev been used to stuff some of the
poli-ticks. ‘

f Pungent Paragraphs

Limberger, hydrogen sulphide, garlic, socks,
glue factories, coal tar, departed cats, gas works,
cabbage.

Aged butter, fish, feet, beer kegs and onions.

Iwon’t—What’s in a name?
Doit—There’s a lot in Lancelot.

Ding—What’s that bell ringing for?
Dong—Someone is pulling the rope.

; Mrs. Pep’s Diary

November. 15th—Up betimes, and didst go down
to the hick village of Davidson where I saw a
game of ball between the first mentioned place
and Carolina. Of special interest was the ador-
able chapeau worn by one of the feminine root-
ers, green ostrich feathers with monkey fur. The
score of the game escaped my memory. I counted
seventy-one buttons on a woman’s dress front.

Surmised that several of the youth were af-
flicted with St. Vitus dance until someone told me
that they were cheer leaders. Poor boys. After
the game, I golfed two rounds and tead in a
down-town tea-parlor. Owing to a. headache,
abed at twelve p. m.

She’s only a@ moonshiner’s daughter, but I love her
still.

Our New Cross-Word Puzzle

Acrostic--crisscross—Ben Turpin—crosscoun-
try —St. Andrew’s — recross — German War
Cross — Crossing the bar.

All you have to do is to cross out all the
words, add a few X’s and other crosses. Don’t
get cross over it, and send your answer to Life
before July 37, 1934. First prize, a cross-cut saw.

Famous Banks

Mounte
er
em ment
“First National”.
note

Joe Garrison’s

Ben Franklin has published his latest song -hit,
a bass drum solo entitled, “Ice-cold papa, don’t
you try to ‘frigerate me.’”

—Crosby

Skippy
The above picture, taken on a snowy morning,
shows Skippy just after he had taken a bath and
fallen into a barrel of white wash.

THE FLOOD
A One-Act Play by Polo Negro

(The curtain rises showing the imperial Russian
place before the warsky. Two courtiers, Gens. Kachi-
moff and Gusslewhisky are conspiring together).

Kachimoff—Aha; here comes the czar with his
wifesky.

Guzzlewhisky—By my last flash of vodka, he does.
But my trusty pea-gun will shoot him deadsky: Enter
the Csar and Csarina and several little Csardines).

Czar—'’Pon my word, and it’s my bally comrades,
doncha know.

Kachimoff—Now’s the time, Guzzle, fire your shot
to save the people.

(The Czar looks mean, as a flea from a hot dog
bites- him). é

Guzzlewhisky—Hark! the Czar has a cloudy coun-
tenance, and I’m afraid he is going to reign. Let’s
movesky. (They leave and the Czar reigns).

Finis.

Cue—My uncfe is a cabinet member?

Clucks—Honest? an BER

Cue—No. I just said he was a cabinet member.
