THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

5

The Reel Stuff

The picture at the Gym Saturday night |
will be “The Love Piker,” with Anita Stew- |

art. Here is the story:

|

Hope Warner, speeding along in her ex-|
pensive roadster, becomes aware that she is |
being pursued and drives at a more reckless |
pace. |

At a sharp turn in the road, Hope finds |
herself face to face with a traffic officer. |
Indignant that anyone should stop her—she |
considers herself a very superior person— |
she is about to protest when the other car |

comes tearing up and Martin Van Huisen, |

~the young fellow driving, hands her a sable |

scarf, explaining that it had fallen from her |
car some 20 miles back. |

Court proceedings, next morning, divulge |
the fact that Hope is the daughter of Mar-|
tin’s employer. They are fined twenty dol- |
lars each for speeding and Hope is forced to
accept a loan from Martin.

Hope is interested in Martin. She per-
suades her father to take her to the building
being constructed under Martin's supervision.
Hope saunters off on the scaffolding despite
Martin’s warning to be careful. When she
realizes her perilous position she almost top-
ples off, but Martin rushes to catch her.
Hope and Martin become good friends.

It is not long before Hope announces
that she is engaged to Martin Van Husien.
This news upsets her mother. Hope's loyalty
to Martin is put to a test when he brings her |
to meet his father, Peter Van Husien, who
lives in the tenement district. Prosperity
had come to Martin after the death of his
mother, so he never had the courage to up-
root his father from the old home. Later
when invitations to their wedding are being
sent out, Hope tears up the invitation intend-
ed for Martin's father. |

When her wedding day arrives her con-
science keeps troubling her about the lonely
old man who has not been asked to attend
his son’s wedding. By the time she is dress- |
ed she can endure it no longer. She slips
into a waiting care’and hurries to Peter. Of |
course the old man is pleased to learn his)
son is not ashamed of him, for Hope con-_|
fesses her action.

DR. W. D. MELTON TO BE
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER

President of South Carolina Secured
for Annual Literary Address on
June 3rd

Dr. W. D. Melton, president of the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, has been secured
to make the annual commencement literary |
address in Shearer Hall, Tuesday, June 3rd,
at 12:15 p.m. Dr. Melton is widely known
as a speaker, and Davidson is fortunate in|
securing him for this occasion.

Dr. Melton is a native of Chester, S. C,,|
and for many years was located in Columbia, |
where he was a very successful practicing |
attorney. He is widely interested in all
public affairs, educational and church work.

When the trustees of the University of
South Carolina found it necessary to choose |
a new president for that institution they
selected Dr. Melton, believing that because
of his character and persistent influence he
would be able to carry out an administration
of progress and development, supported by
the people and the state government. Al-
though he has been in office only three years,
the university has already shown a marked
increase in attendance and numerous new
buildings are in the course of construction
or are being planned.

SUNDAY ATTENDANCE AT
» RURAL CHURCHES GOOD |

At the rural Sunday Schools for April 6th |
the attendance and interest was good.

Seven students from the college helped in
teaching classes at Shearer. The attend-
ance was 62. After Sunday School, Rev. F.'
A. Barnes preached on the text, Forgive Us
Our Debts As We Forgive Our Debtors.
G. R. Simms and L. B. Gibbs stayed over
for the Christian Endeavor service at night.

There were 87 present at the Cornelius |
Sunday School. Three new officers were}
installed at the church service. Dr. M. E.
Sentelle aided in the installation.

Four men from the student body attended
the service at the convict camp. A. N. Mof-
fett talked on the subject, The Samaritan
Woman at the Well. There were 52 pres-
ent.

Dr. Arbuckle took A. C. Slaymaker and}
W. A. Christian to Hobson’s Chapel. The
attendance was 30. There was another serv-
ice after Sunday School at which Dr. Ar-
buckle made a talk.

» ~ At-the Mill Chapel, W.. W. Purdy, Claud

McIntosh and M. C. Yeargen taught classes.
There were 28 present. Miss Ellen Black
favored the meeting with a solo.

| Forest there. The affirmative has written

| weeks ago were initiated. They were: W.
|S. Woods, W. T. Covington, W. H. Lynch,

jmade by President Hurd, K. S. McAlpine,
jand the new editor, “Chong” McIlwaine.

|success of the Davidsonian.

|not only the “‘livest wire on the Hill,” but
\the best college paper in the South.

| teams in the East, surpassed only by Harvard

FOR FORTHCOMING |
DEBATES

One Team to Meet Carolina Fresh |
Here While Other Clashes With
Wake Forest

|

The Freshman intercollegiate debating |
team has been steadily improving for the
past few weeks under the coaching of Pro-
fessors Dendy and Brown. A practice de-
bate between the affirmative team, composed
of Branch, C. Williams and Stewart, and
the negative, composed of L. Williams,
Wharton and Erwin, was held last Tuesday
night for the purpose of getting the point
of the opposition before each team. This. has
proved a great help to the teams.

On April 15th, the final debate will take
place. The affirmative team, remaining at
home, will meet Carolina in Shearer Hall,
while the negative team will meet Wake

Carolina for an exchange of issues, and it is
hoped that they will consent, as this is the
only way to definitely insure a clash of argu-
ment.

The query to be discussed, Resolved That
the Philippine Islands should be given their
complete and immediate independence, is one
of importance to the nation at the present |
time. The Filipinos are loudly clamoring for |
freedom and the United States must take |
some definite stand on the independence |
question, The “Woods-Forbes Report” has |
in the last few years, brought the topic |
squarely before the American public and it |
has been a prominent and popular subject for |
debate. The Freshmen have spent much time |
in preparation and their backers are expect- |
ing a nice array of scalps to hang from the
Fresh wigwam.

NINE FRESHMEN INITIATED)
AT REPORTERS’ CLUB FEED |
|

Austin, Branch, Covington, Jones, |
Lynch, McIlwaine, McMillan,
Wharton, and Woods Taken in

At the regular meeting of the Reporters’
Club at the gymnasium last Friday night the
nine men who were elected to the club two

L. D. Wharton, R. H. Mellwaine, P. F.
Jones, W. H. Branch, G. MeMillan, Jr., and
H. C. ‘Austin.

After the initiation was over a feed was
| spread, and for over an hour everyone was
| busy. The committee in charge had pre-
|pared a variety of choice sandwiches and
fruits, and the ice cream which was served
topped off the menu.

After the repast was over speeches were

Hurd talked especially to the new men who
had been just taken in ,telling them that they
must do all within their power to aid in the

Chong Mcllwaine, in his talk, expressed
his thanks to each man who had helped him
during the past year and asked for the sup-
port of the Reporters’ Club during the com-
ing year in helping to make the Davidsonian

K. S. McAlpin told of the needs of the
Davidsonian. He said that we need adver-
tisers to help run our paper, and that if _we
expect to get more of them we must patronize
them. “The more fellows on the Hill who
patronize those who advertise in our paper,
the more advertising we will get,” said Mc-
Alpin.

After the speeches, the new members were
sworn in and the meeting was adjourned.

RACQUETEERS WILL MEET
COLGATE HERE MONDAY

On Monday, April 14th, the Wildcat ten-
nis team will meet the tennis team of Col-
gate University. The matches will be played
here on the home courts. Last year Col-
gate’s team was rated among the five biggest

and Yale. An admission of 15 cents will be
charged.

On Thursday, April 10th, the Fresh team
will play the Varsity. McCutchen, Moose
and Beall have been chosen to represent the
Fresh team.

The second round of the tournament has
‘not been run off yet on account of the in-
clemency of the weather. It is hoped that it
will soon be finished. The courts have not
been in good shape on account of the bad
weather and are likely to be cut up if they
are played on before they are entirely dry.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS
- OUT MANY DEPUTATIONS

The Ministerial Band Quartette has gone

| FROSH IN FINAL PRACTICE |0n Sunday, March 30th, they conducted
services in Mooresville.
| were most cordial and made each member of
| the quartette have a fine time.

The people there

On the same Sunday, A. Y. Bowie and
Ronald Wilson took charge of the service at

China Grove, one of Dr. E. D. Brown’s|enjoyed his “Y” meeting as much as Da-

churches. vidson enjoyed the corresponding one here.

Last Sunday evening Harry Price and the
quartette conducted the Y. W.:C, A. service ‘ . ‘ f h
at Queens, two of the number making short|ation an informal reception after the
talks. Fromi all accounts, the Queens girls} service.

The “Y” cabinet at Queens gave the dele-

“What a whale of a difference

just

ake!”

a few cents 1

—all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette
and — FATIMA, the most skillful
blend in cigarette history.

on several deputations in the last few weeks.

AN,

EX AHIBITION
af

CLO TrES

and

HABERDASHERY

At School

Monday and Tuesday |
April 14-15

GEO. O’DONALD, Rep.

FINCHLEY HAS LSTABLISHLED A
FRESH AND TASTI:MUL STAND-
ARD OF ATTIRE, WHICH TS REC.
OGNIZED AND ACCEPTED BY

COLLEGE MEN, JACKETS OF NEW
SUITS ARE FULL-BODIED AND
THE TROUSERS OF CORRECT
COLLEGIATE WIDTH. FABRICS ;
ARE IMPRESSIVE IN THEIR

DISTINCTION AND QUALITY.

READY - TO- PUT-ON
AND
‘TAILORED TO MEASURE

Finchley Haberdashery,
selected abroad, has uncom-
mon character and value,

iF

(Clk ARNY

5 West 46th. Street

