\

‘4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association }

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF °15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered’ at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year |

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._....-.--..-- Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-.-..... Business Manager

*

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

I. Circulation Manager
Dee Oe MOS WAINE so. tessa ccs Ses nae Subscription Manager
. M. GARRISON. vice Manager
DYN GCHeraeaseeeen ees Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, ‘Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. J. E. MOORE
F M. APPLEBY E. P. O'CONNOR
. M. AUSTIN R, B. PARK’
W. H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON =, K, REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH t: B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES « D, WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WOODS
THE ANNUAL

HI 1925 Quips and Cranks is getting
off to an early start this fall despite
the handicap which it suffered when
the business manager did not return. The
loss of time until a new manager was select-
ed seems to have affected the schedule very
little. :
By the end of this week the majority of
student photographs will have b%en com-
pleted. The work of organizing material is
already well under way. The results so far
have shown the wisdom of the Senior Class
in electing Lake and Milhous to the posi-
tions of editor and business manager.

ON TO ASHEVILLE

Saturday the Red and ‘Black machine
meets one of its bitterest foes in the first
real test of the 1924 football season. The
Presbyterian College of South Carolina is
an opponent of the highest calibre. Their
gridiron teams fight hard and clean from
the opening kick-off.tothe final blast of the
referee’s whistle.

The Student Body has petitioned the fac-
ulty to allow a special train to be run to
Asheville. Every Davidson man knows from
past experience that every P. C. game is a
real battle. Never has the margin of dif-
ference between the teams been over seven
points. The team needs and has support of
every man. Whether the petition is grant-
ed or not Coach Monk’s fighting Wildcats go
to Asheville knowing that every son of
Davidson is behind them, and with that
spirit to spur them on, nothing is impossible.

THE COURT OF CONTROL

By its quick and decisive action toward
the Freshmen who violated the Freshman
regulations during the past week the Court
of Control showed that it means to enforce
strictly all of the rules.

When hazing was abolished nearly two
years ago the Court of Control was sub-

| over the crumbled heap that once

Editor

| a true son of Davidson.

+ —old Chambers was gone.

stituted for the “board of, control” which ”

had been in force since the early davs of the
college. 1
men who took the wrong view of college
life, and who did not live up to the ideals of
Davidson men. They also imposed certain
restrictions on the first-year men and in-
flicted penalties for their violation.
Sometimes in the past it has.seemed to
some of the students that the court was un-
willing to inflict any penalty except in ex-
treme cases. This hurt the influence of the
court among the students, who felt that the

This court took in hand all Fresh- |

revival of hazing would be a much better |

solution of the problem than to have a court
which was too lenient. :
Fortunately, an outbreak against the new

|:\.System.did not come, and the abolishment

eee)

or frazing-seems to-be permanent. The new
‘court has it in its power to tear down or

! build up the system. By its prompt action

it has established itself on a surer footing

and has gained the respect of the entire Stu-
dent Body,

HOMECOMING DAY

Two years ago the custom of Homecom-
ing Day was instituted at Davidson. Home-
coming Day was a day on which alumni of
Davidson were to gather from far and near
to revisit their Alma Mater, to see once
more the scenes on the campus, and the
familiar halls in which they spent some of
the happiest years of their life. It was a
day for the reviving of old memories.

To many that first Homecoming Day was
a time of sadness. They came back to live
over again their college days but the place
was not the same. It lacked the final touch
Only the four
columns remained like sentinels watching
was
Chambers.

New dormitories had been erected, it is
true, but Chambers with all its wealth of
tradition had gone never to return. Never
to return as it was in years gone by, because
new Chambers will not be used as a dor-
mitory.

Then the alumni drifted out to the field to
see the Wildcats battle V. P. 1, a team which
held the Praying Colonels from Centre to a
10-6 score the week before. For nine years
the-Wildcats had never been beaten on the
home lot. Way back in 1902 Furman won a
6-0-decision at Davidson and then in 1913
South Carolina won a 10-0 battle, the last
time the Wildcats had been scored on at
home.

That game will never be forgotten by any
who saw it. The spirit which prompted one
of the players before the game to say, “The
word impossible is not in the Wildcat vocab-
ulary,” was too much for the Virginians and
they had to be content with a 7-7 tie.

Chambers was no more, but the fighting
Wildcat spirit was still alive and the first
Homecoming Day battle will always be re-
membered as the greatest exhibition of
sheer spirit ever seen on a Davidson grid
iron,

Last year no major game was played at
home, but the Wildcats won a 7-0 victory
over Citadel, at the annual celebration. This
year Homecoming Day takes on a bigger
meaning. Tor the first time in over twenty-
five years of rivalry on the gridiron, David-
son meets a Carolina team on her home
grounds. On November 15th, Carolina and
Davidson will lock horns in the Homecom-
ing Day contest.

It will be the twenty-third battle between
the two teams.
played the University has won fifteen,
Davidson has won three and four have ended
in scoreless ties. Carolina has an over-
whelming lead in games won but only three
times during the twenty-two years has the
margin of difference been over two touch-
downs.

But in addition to the Carolina game
Homecoming Day presents a special appeal
to every alumnus. In the place of old
Chambers a new building is rising. One
wing is on thé way toward completion. The
spirit which fought V. P. T. to a standstill
will still be in evidence against Carolina and
in place of the ashes of Chambers will be
the beginnings of one of the finest college
administrative buildings in the South.

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those. members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any, matter which
might arise during the Geng He ear. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

DAVIDSON SPIRIT

The stock of the old Wildcat spirit is rising
fast. Seldom have Davidson rooters shown a
finer spirit than during the Elon fray last Satur-
day. But the test of whether the spirit is lasting
or not is yet to come. It’s easy to yell for the old
team when it is winning, but when it is losing
and playing an uphill game is when the true test
comes,

It is said of the Wildcat that it fights best when
it is on its back because then it has four claws
to fight with instead of two.

There are statements thrown
Davidson teams which would discourage any
team without the stuff to hold up under it. It is
said that Dayidson’s team is light. It is said that
Davitlson can never put out great teams because
she refuses to keep pace with other schools who
to resort to commercialism rather than
school spirit to draw athletes to their institutjons.

But what about the team that two years ago
held the wonder V. P. I. team to a.tie, 7-7? What
about the team which the year before held Caro-
lina scoreless in their own back yard? What
about the 1917 team which Spalding’s rule-book

in the faces of

have

called the “featherweight champion of the world?”

Of the twenty-two games |

Let us make Homecoming Day, November |

15, a milestone in Davidson history. It will
be a day when Davidson will be the Mecca
of every Davidson man with the spirit and
ideals of Davidson in his heart; and when
we who are now in her halls, will welcome
every one of her-sons back home again with
open arms.

THE FOUNDATION OF DAVIDSON’S
HONOR SYSTEM

Honor is the one essential of every David-
son man. Without honor a man cannot be
The Davidson code
is embodied in the honor system as express-
ed in the constitution of the Student Body.

Article IV of the constitution comprises
the honor system. Every man in the stu-
dent body is honor bound to refrain from
cheating, stealing, and perjury. Cheating in-
cludes not only cheating on examinations
but also on review, or any other pledged
work,

The last section of the article, however,
is the foundation on which the whole code
of honor stands. It reads as follows: Every
student shall be honor-bound to report all vio-
lations of the honor system which come under
his observation. Failure to do so shall be re-
garded as a violation ofthe honor system.

By the amendment of the constitution in
the spring this last section was added, thus
putting down in black and white the whole
core of the system. Unless this last section
is carried out.the spirit.of the first section
remains unfulfilled.

To some the will of the Student Body
may seem too severe in regard to the failure
to report any violations which may come

; son.

| habit it will injure him for life.

There is nothing which will count more than that
old fight which this year’s team is more than
willing to give every minute ofplay if the stu-
dent body will back it to the last whistle, every
upperclassman as well as every Freshman, dur-
ing the middle of a game as well as at the first.
And then the team will add new glory to the
lair of the “never-say-die” Wildcats.

Davidson Spirit.

BOOST OUR STORE

Reports from the Student Store indicate that
business has been good on some days, and on
others—not so good. This is to be expected in
any mercantile enterprise due to several reasons,
mainly, demand and competition. The daily de-
mand of this student body may vary but the
Student Store stands ready to supply that de-
mand, whatever it may be. The result of com-
petition is up to you.

‘the managers, Goat Lewis and Sellars, are
striving to meet the needs and desires of cach
student and are working hard to make the store
what you want it to be.. The store has an in-
creasing stock of goods which will satisfy gen-
eral needs. It is located in a place which is con-
venient to the largest number of students.

Boost the Student Store! It's yours. You are
the owners and benefactors as well as the ctis-
tomers. Boost it! This is your enterprise or-
ganized for the express purpose of financially
aiding your student organizations. Boost it! It
will need your help and patronage to make it
successful to the extent for which it is meant.
Boost it!

—Lineup.

under his observation. If the matter is
viewed from an impartial angle, however, it
will be seen that the rule is both necessary
and just. ;

It is hard for us to lose faith in any of our
fellowmen, That is what happens when we
see a man cheating. But what if we allow
that. man who has dragged the honor of
Davidson in the dust to remain among us,
classed by all as a representative of David-
If we fail to report him we are hurting
him, ourselves, and the school.

We are hurting him, primarily, by allow-
ing him to continue in his habits of dishonor.
It may perhaps be the first time he has ever
cheated, but if it is allowed to become a
In practical-
ly every activity it is true that it is not what
we get caught doing that hurts us so much
as what we do without getting caught. By
not reporting a man we may do him an
irreparable injury.

We are hurting ourselves by not report-
ing him because of the weakening of our
moral stamina. There is no question that it
takes stamina to report a fellow student but
a man who does not have the.moral strength
to do a hard thing is not fit for the responsi-
bilities of manhood. Failure to report a
man is weakness just as surely as cheating.
30th exhibit the failing of being able. to
stand the gaff.

Lastly, it is unfair to the school to allow
a cheat, thief, or liar to remain a member of
the student body. No argument on this
point is necessary.

We have made the honor system, and we
would hate to live without it. The thought
of a school’ without.an heeer sxstem.Js .in-
tolerant to all of us. If we wish to keep our
system on the high plane which it has. al-
ways occupied we must live up to the Stu-
dent Body constitution.

BOOK REVIEW

(Davidson College Catalog—Presbyterian Stand-

ard Publishing Co. Given away gratis).

For a high school graduate just stepping out on
the terra firma with a diploma and a breastful of
medals on his person, the Davidson, College cat-
alog will prove a password to the higher realms
of thought and collegiate action. Between its
dusky covers there are exactly 168 pages of logic,
philosophy, and good practical advice whose
worth has been proved by nigh on to a hundred.
years of continuous running, during which time
not a single article has been returned on account
of dissatisfaction.

A historical sketch of this venerable institu-
tion opens the story with a zip and rush that
fairly takes one off his pedal organs. This tells
of, the founding of the institution by the sturdy
Scotch-Irish who were driven from their native
heather and flax fields on account of so many tag
days and the high price of shamrocks. Next
comes the list of high moguls whose degrees look
for all the world like a battery of high-tension
centrigrade thermometers. The members, ex of-
ficio and otherwise, of the various committees
hold a strategic position on this flank of the book.

The general admission and reserved seats of
the entrance to the college are contained in the
next few pages which often prove the waterloo of
the invading hosts of new youths who loose their
rustic fragrance on the desert air of the campus.
All one has to do is to peruse these few pages
carefully and he can find out exactly how to gain
access to this fountain of knowledge. All he
needs then is a few paltry dollars, a burning de-
sire for higher education, and a hearty dislike
for muddy walks. With these few requisites he
can pass through Davidson like a sliver of okra
down the ailmentary canal.

The courses of study are put down just as
painlessly as possible and camouflaged under a
barrage of technical, literary and nondescript
terms that bewilder the newcomer until he thinks
that a diploma will be as hard to get as a boot-
legger’s license. One can find quite a nice array
of choice subjects from which to pick his tortuous
way through the mill of education. History, bu-
gology, capus course, German, Geology and all
such sciences have their representatives in these
pagés. If a man does not, like one subject he can
take another, only the college taxes him $2.50 for
each change from better to worse or. vice versa.

Absence regulations and sundry hardships of
like nature fill up an exalted position in one of
the most prominent parts of the books and the
penalties are appended thereunto. Perhaps the
most fluid and literary writing appears in the
fine description of the campus and its building.
This was evidently written by a landscape gard-
ner, a lawyer, and a veteran politician working in
conjunction with each other. From the mag-
nificent description, one can gain a view of the
surroundings that the eye cannot hope to equal.
In verbosity and fluency, this piece of exposition
is the hippo’s bootees, vugularly speaking.

One of the most interesting phases of this great
little book is the estimate of expenses that is so
nicely described and handled. Everything is fig-
ured out a fine point and one can tell to a mill
what he will spend. However for the convenience
of new boys, it might be said that it’s best to add
five hundred dollars for incidentals and such.

* *

MONTGOMERY WARD

*

(Montgomery Ward and Company, New York—
Price, one postage stamp).

A questionnaire recently sent out to represen-
tative flappers, colelge students, blacksmiths, boot-
leggers and other citizens, revealed the fact that
among the ten books chosen by them which they
would use for a stay on a desert island, the Mont-
gomery Ward catalog headed the list. This shows
the high esteem in which this fine book is held by
the public.

It fills an all-round need in every household, for
all, from the baby to grandpa can enjoy its pages
with a maximum of ease and rapidity. It contains
something of interest to every prospective bride
as well as to the silo builder and the boy who
wants a new marble. This year’s catalog is un-
usually interesting to young and old alike.

Skipping over the front section of the book,
which is no-man’s land, with its pink illustrations
showing up well, we pass on the candy section
which will doubtless attract the eyes of all chil-
dren. Running on through the array of artic
overshoes, .gumdrops, harrows and _ non-skid
hosiery, we come to the book department where
one may revel in the cuts of volumes of Pilgrim’s
Progress and Guides to Easy Manners. On, page
796, number 1239X, there is a handsome demount-
able talking machine with cut glass trimmings .
which is as cheap as one can make it himself.

After glancing through the book, one may
readily see that it is a work of art.. The green
index pages in the middle offer a striking contrast
to the other pages. It is handsomely bound in
nice paper binding with fashionable cover and
back. ~ Cc. F. S.
