4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

The Davidsonian

~Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weckly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of |

the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAIN
KENNETH S, McALPIN-----

aoe Editor
Busin

Editorial Staff

--Alumni Editor

Business Staff

FcAY THOMPSON. -----------------Circulation Manager

T. _C. McSWAIN Subscription Manager
{;,Mi GARRISON Service Manager

LYNCH Typist

L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. J, FE, MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY KE. P, O'CONNOR
H, M. AUSTIN RK. B. PARKER

B. Y. PITTS

W. H. BRANCH BLY.
. B. U. RATCHFORD

J. M. GARRISON FE. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH J. B. THOMPSON
P. F, JONES L.. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

MOTHER’S DAY

Sunday is Mother’s Day. This is a day of
days, set aside out of the ceaseless rush of
days and seasons for a distinct remembrance
in honor to our mothers. It is a day in
Which we pay homage to those who are our
dearest earthly heritage, and who sum up
those ideals that are the finest and greatest
in our lives. Motherhood is a shrine at
Which we lay our hearts’ truest and noblest
love, our earthly hopes and ambitions, and

the trophies that we have accumulated
through the love and prayers of our
mothers.

_ It is with a heart and soul full of love and
joy that we observe this day. None other
can compare with it, for no other day has so
full a significance and meaning, With ador-
ation for those who gave us life we pay tri-
bute. Ina sense, we cannot repay the debt
of love we owe, we can only show the love
that swells up-in our hearts in a small way.
The carols of the birds in the newly-ver-
dured trees and the flowers that have opened
their smiling faces to greet a glad new
world all join with us and worship.

_A mother’s love is the purest and most
divine love in the world. It knows no sur-
cease nor doubts when the whole universe
turns against us, and when the cries of men
ring loud in our ears. Through terrors and
fears it carries on its message of hope to
the one whom it has nurtured from its first
venture into human life. Through dark
days when all have deserted and all doubt,
the wonderful love of a mother never falters.
Trials and tribulations serve only to renew
its intensity. Sorrows that must come into
our lives serve only to make the bonds more
durable and lasting. Through the dark val-
ley of the shadow of death our mothers
walked that we might have life; through
days of care and toil they steadfastly made
their way that their ambitions might be
ours. A love that knows no end, and a hope
that knows no fulfillment except that we
fulfill it. Truly, this love shall not go un-
rewarded. During the days when we lisped
in childish numbers it followed us, and even
today it hovers over our beings with a stead-
fast light that never fails. Through days of
temptations when our spirits are prone to
falter, and grow weary of the way, the
spirit of the mother that is far away per-
meates our consciousness, and it cannot be
denied. A mother’s love follows when all
hope has fled, on the way to the death chair
fit stays, and when the spirit is gone, the love
lingers, and lingers on.

The men whose names go down on the
burnished scrolls of the illustrious are those
who were influenced most by their mothers.

- They were led to sublime heights because
of the ambition that was instilled into their
breasts by the gentle spirit that longed for
her son to succeed. The Man of Galilee was
assuredly led and guided by the touch of a
mother’s hand, just as by a divine spirit. The
songs that were crooned to him in the velvet
darkness of an oriental night conveyed to

(Continued on page 8)

' Proposed Amendments To The Constitution of
The Student Government of Davidson College

Clearer Interpretation of Honor System, Publication’s Union, and Student Store Are
Subjects of Proposed Additions to the Constitution—Matter Will be
Voted on in Ten Days

|
|
|

Saturday morning, May 3rd, Albert Hillhouse,
retiring president of the student body, and Jim
Hendrix, the newly elected executive, read before
the students certain revisions to the student body
constitution which the old and new student coun-
cils recommended at a recent meeting.

Hendrix, Hillhouse and Mellwaine were ap-
pointed the council recommend certain
changes in the constitution, and to draw up new
articles to govern the management of the publi-
cations and ofthe student store. A more definite
conception of the Honor System is given by the
revised constitution which will be voted on by the
student body ten days after being laid) on the
table.

The following are the proposed changes in the
constitution :

Articles [ and Ill are to remain unchanged.

Article II

Sec. I. The words printed in black face type
shall be added to this section making it read as
follows:

“It shall be the duty of the Student Body to
elect Student Body officers and to strive at all
time to uphold and preserve the Honor’ System
and all other provisions of the Constitution in
every department of college life.”

See. 2. The words printed in black face type
shall be added to this section making it read as
follows:

“It shall be the duty of the President of the Stu-
dent Body to call meetings of the Student Body

by to

« when such meetings are to its best interest, to

report any violations of the Honor System or any
other provision of the Constitution which come
under his observation, and to preside at these

mectings, to call meetings of the Council and toy

preside when such meetings are in session; to
appoint necessary committees; and to at all
times strive toward the improvement of condi-
tions upon: the campus.”

The other sections of this article shall remain
unchanged. The above changes are to be made
in order to make these sections conform to the
changes made in Articles IV and V.

The proposed changes in Articles IV and V are
to make clear the distinction between the Honor
System and the ofher provisions of the Student
Government.

For instance, under the present Constitution a
man is as much on his honor not to play a
musical instrument at night as he is not to cheat
on examinations, and is honor-bound to report
violations of both, making no distinction between
them,

Under the proposed changes, cheating, stealing,
perjury, and failure to report these offences are
regarded as equal offences and are placed under
the Honor System in Article 1V; all other viola-
tions are not regarded as a part of the Honor
System, but as a breaking of the Student Body
laws which are enumerated in Article V.

These changes make failure to report,a viola-
tion of the Honor System (Article IV) an offence
equal to the violation itself, for by not reporting
violations of the Honor System a man is aiding
and abetting the violator, and is, fostering a spirit
of dishonor at Davidson.

Article IV.

Sec. 1. The sections of this Article shall con-
stitute the Honor System. :

Sec, 2, Every student shall be honor-bound to
refrain from cheating, either on recitation, re-
views, examination, or any other pledge work.

Sec. 3. Every student shall be honor-bound to
refrain from stealing.

Sec. 4. Every student shall be h

d to

of 7:30 p. m. and 7:30 a. m., except on Saturday
and Sunday nights.

Sec. 9. No student shall solicit advertisements
for any publications other than the Davidsonian,
the Davidson College Magazine, the Annual, and
the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, unless authorized by
the Publications Board.

Sec. 10. It shall be the duty of every student to
report all violations of the sections of this
Article which der his observation.

Since the present Article IV is divided into two
Articles the numbers of the subsequent articles
are to be moved up one,

Article VI

Article VI shall consist of Article five of the

present Constitution unchanged.
Article VII

The present Article VI shall be omitted from
the Constitution and in its place shall be sub-
stituted the following article. The purpose
this article is to insure better financial manage-
ment for the student publications.

Sec. 1. There shall be chosen annually a body
to be known as the Publications Board. This
board. shall have complete supervision over the
financial administration of the three student pub-
lications, The Davidsonian, The Davidson College
Magazine, and the Annual.

Sec. 2. This board shall be composed of five
members, three students elected by the Student
Body and two Faculty members appointed by the
College Administration. The three student mem-
bers shall be elected from six nominees—the staff
of each publication nominating two of this num-
her. The president of this board shall be one of
the student members and shall be elected at the
first regular meeting of the board.

Sec. 3. The Business Managers of the above
named publications shall be appointed by and
shall be directly responsible to, the Publications
Board. Recommendations for the Business Man-
ager of each publication shall be submitted to
the Board by the staff of that publication.

(Explanation: It shall be understood that the
board shall accept the Business Managers already
elected for next year but that these managers
shall be responsible to the board as stated in’this
article.)

Sec. 4. The board shall have the power to re-
move from office any Business Manager who is
plan for student examination goes further than
found to be i petent or undesirable.

Sec. 5. This board shall meet at least once
every month. The Business Manager of each pub-
lication shall be required to submit a complete

of

.financial report at each regular meeting of the

board..

Article VIII
Article VIIT shall consist of present article VII.
Article IX
Article IX shall consist of the present Article
VIII with the words in bold face type added, This
change is made so that the Honor System and all
other regulations may be brought to the attention
of the Student body at the opening of school.
Sec. 1. Article IT, Article IV, and Article V of
this Constitution shall be read with appropriate
explanations before the entire Student Body at
a meeting held not later than one week after the
opening of school for the fall term of each college
year. :
Article X
Article X shall consist of the present Article IX
with certain gramatical corrections and the in-
sertion ofthe following sentence in Section 2.
No member of the Student Council shall be a
ber of the Court of Control. This provision

refrain from perjury.

Sec. 5. Every student shall be honor-bound to
report all violations of the Honor System which
come under his observation.
shall be regarded as a violation of the Honor
System.

Article V

Sections 9 and 10 are added as additional regula-
tions of the Student Government. Section 9 is
added to protect for the student publications
alone the advertising which makes them possible.
And to prevent the soliciting of advertising by
individuals for their personal gain.

Sec. 1. No student shall be guilty of lying.

Sec: 2. No student shall be guilty of drinking
alcoholic liquors or having same in his possession
on the campus.

Sec. 3. No student shall be guilty of gambling.

Sec. 4. No student shall be guilty of leading an
immoral life.

Sec. 5. No student shall be guilty of engaging °
in any form of hazing whatsoever.

Sec. 6. All students shall respect college prop-
erty, and no student shall be guilty of wilfully
multilating it or destroying it in any way.

Sec. 7. All students shall at all times conduct
themselves as becomes gentlemen and students of
Davidson College, while ‘on the Hilf or represent-
ing the collegé in any capacity while away from
the college. va

Sec. 8. There shall be no playing of musical in-
struments or unnecessary noise between the hours

Failure to do so |

was originally in the section but was omitted
through a typographical error in the publication
of the Handbook.

Article XI

The following new Article is to provide for the
management of the Student Body Store:

Sec. 1. There shall be chosen annually a Board
of Directors to supervise the operation of the
Student Body Store, and to have complete con-
trol over the funds accruing therefrom.

Sec. 2. This Board shall be composed of five
members: two students—one to be elected by the
incoming Student Council—the President of the
Student Body to serve as the other; one faculty
member chosen by the outgoing Board of Direc-
tors; and one Faculty member and one student
chosen by the athletic council. (Explanation:
Representatives from Athletic Council because
plan is to combine Commissary with the present
store. Commissary is controlled at present by
the Athletic Council.)

Sec. 3. The President of the Board shall be a
student member, and the Treasurer shall be a
Faculty member—these to be elected at the first
regular meeting of the Board.

Sec. 4. The managing staff of the store shall be
appointed by, and shall be directly responsible to
the Board of Directors. “5 eating Yeh

Sec. 5.. The Board shall have the power to re-
move from office any member of the managing
staff who is found to be i petent «
desirable.

or un-

|
|

Sec. 6. This Board shall meet at least once
every month. The manager ofthe store shall be
required to submit a complete financial report,
and to deposit the monthly net profits with the
Treasurer, at each regular meeting of the Board.

Chaff

HAMLET AND EGGLET
mellow mellerdrammer of Ye Olden Dayes
Merrie Englande, in two mellifluous
Acts, with one actress.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Hamlet—deposed king of Denmark with a fried
character,

Egglet—a hard-boiled one who wields a wicked
spit.

Omelet—daughter of the king, with a scrambled
disposition.

Eggnogg—the king’s fool; always sociable.
Count de Paris—a Knight the Garter,
king’s chief supporter. ee
Kitchen Scullions, Rolay Cake Eaters and others.
ACT I

(The King's royal kitchen where Egalet the cook ts
industriously concocting a broth for the king. The
‘ hitchen scullions are dressing two fat oxen for the
banquél table, while the handsome young face of Ega-
let smileth not. They gather together and sing:
We love our sovereign lord and king
And fight to save his banners,
But cook we must, in him we trust
To furnish the bananas.
The grape fruit season’s over now,
And good hen fruit is scarce—
(Their merriment is broken in upon by the king,
who is highly wroth, and his trusty Count de Paris.

A in

of and

zl
‘The king advances).

KING: What ho, the watch! To rout, these knaves
who defileth my hash emporium with their brawling.
Even my trusty Magnavox maketh not such unseemly
noise. Zounds! Ho! and is this arrogant young
scoundrel who brews the broth, the youth that seeketh
the harid of my daughter? That an offspring of mine
should sink to such likings pleaseth me notly. Come,
my brave Count de Paris, and gaze upon the knave.
What sayest thou churlish son of a bootlegger ?

EGGLET: Odsfish! my lord, and thou scareth me
unto the dance of St. Vitus. Only this sovereign—
Thy daughter, Omelet, is all the world to me and I
would to the altar with her. My means are small but
I meaneth well. What sayeth thou, most garrulous
monarch?

KING (with anger in his heart and his feet in his
boots): Knave, never bespeak thyself such of a noble
scion of the house of Hamlet. Get thee hence, vile
creature.

COUNT DE PARIS: King, thou forgetteth thy-

self. Remembercth not that this hash hound distilleth
the rare vintage that thou approved so muchly. Let
him marry thy daughter, the buxom Omelet.

KING: I rescind my vow, and sayeth this. Let

the lad present before me a new dish, such as has never
been set before a king, and I resign the apple of my

| optical organs to his protecting care and custody.

(Exeunt the king and his supporters).

EGGLET (in pensive melancholy, he scratches his
cranium with an unused battle axe): The only
solution and means that I perceiveth is to procure the
great egg that Goodman Robin de Oeuf has at his inn.
He sayeth that it is a relic of the stone age, and it is
big enough to make a human stone blind, Zounds!
At once varlets, procure the great egg from Robin
and for the table let us fix it.

OMELET (beckoning to Egglet from a_ distant
hall, whom, as she him kisses his outstretched hand,
sticky with dough): Aha, my Lord of the Culinary,
thou hast enough dough for me. Marry we must, is it
not so? (Exeunt, et cetera).

II.

(The royal dining hall of King Hamlet, who is not
stopping to soliloquise. The festive board resounds
under the smack of lips and gurgling of coco-colas.
A fanfare of trumpets and a huge egg, the sise of a
young elephant, is brought forth by the retainers of
the kitchen, on a pure aluminum platter. It ts set be-
fore the king).

KING: Zooms! What an egg. Truly it seemeth
enough even for my trusty knights-at-arms here,
Count de Paris, and Count de Change.

OMELET: By my troth and bobbed locks, it
maketh a show. If it pleases my venerable parent,
the arms of Egglet are only for me. (She sighs).

KING: Fast, ye varlets, open up the egg that we
may eat. (The henchmen come forward and attack
the proposcd meal with javelins and electric drills.
A stirring is scen inside the egg). What knaves, bend
to your work. Yeave ho, my hearties. (Another
crack, the shell flies open and a young Pterodactyl
blinks its eyes, crawls forth and stretches its wings.
The heat of the King’s words has hatched it from its
confinement of a million years. It advances upon the
king, hooks its talons in the bald head and flies away
to a distant park).

OMELET (weeping) : How annoying. There goeth
papa on another wild goose chase. Who will have me
now? :

EGGLET: I be the lucky fellow to claim you’ by
right of conquest. ’Twas I who brought the egg.
Shall we marry and repair to my apartments in the
suburbs where the chariot traffic is not so heavy? Yes?
-OMFIET: Egg-zactly, my dear Egglet, let us to
the altar, where we may get the halter. (£mbraces,
etc., as courtiers and courtly hangers-on vent approval
with hussas. Eggnogg starts a joyous song).

END
