FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON _

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 2, 1924

WILDCATS LICK BLUESTOCKINGS BY SCORE 15-3

Some Wonderful Examples of Faith in
Africans Cited by Rev. R. F. Bedinger

Missionary Who Has Served in Dark Continent for Thirteen Years
Makes Appeal for Medical Missionaries in Four Talks to

JIM HENDRIX

Hendrix and Sappenfield Break Through
South Carolinians Lines for Long Gains

Davidson Comes Back Strong in Second Quarter and Speedy Backs
Dart Through Opponents for Touchdown—Red and Black
Students Attend Game in Body and

Davidson Students—Big Attendance at Vesper Services’

Rev. R. F. Bedinger, missionary to Africa, !
delivered a forceful and impressive mes-
sage before a large number of students at
the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday
evening. . ;

A graduate of Hampden-Sidney in the
class of 1907, Mr. Bedinger has been at)
work in Africa for 13 years, and his ad- |
dress consisted of incidents which during |
his work have impressed upon him the great |
power of God as shown among the people of |
Africa. |

“If I were to take a text this evening,” |
began the missionary, “I would take the}
words of that old song, ‘There js power,
power, wonder-working power, in the blood
of the Lamb,’” |

Three stories of his experience, each car- |
rying with it the great impressive fact of |
the power of the Blood, were related by Mr. |
Bedinger,

“The first story is that of a little girl,
three or four years of age, the daughter of
a young minister at Nitoko, a point far out
in the mission field. The child Was seen
playing around ‘her ‘father's study one morn-
ing, but after a while she disappeared, The
father thought she had gone to her mother,
but soon the mother came in without the
child, neither parent knowing where the lit-
tle one had gone,

“The father began a hunt nearby for the
child, finally going out among the higher
8rass and even into the neighboring forests.
The mother, in agony over the loss of her
babe, was in a tantrum. All day the father
searched, but in vain,

“That night there was a storm, a great
torrent such as can only occur’ on the plains
of Africa. The baby was still lost. Cer-
tainly, if the wild animals had not devoured
it before, the infant would be drowned. All
night the torrent raged.

“Early the next morning the father re-
sumed the search, while the mother again
went into a tantrum, throwing herself on the
ground and pulling out her hair. The father
returned about 9:00 o'clock in the morning
without the baby.

“A chief of the village came and said he
wanted to find the baby by means of witch-
craft, calling upon the witch doctor. The

Stunt Night Will
be Hilarious Time
for all Students

Extensive plans are already being made to

father forbade any such action, But the
chief went ahead and performed the cere-
monies during the remainder of the morning. |
“While the performance was at its height
the Christian superintendent of the section
came into the village, and demanded of the
young minister an account for the conduct of
the village. The minister assured him that
(Continued on page 8)

Stephen Leacock Proves
Prowess as Entertainer

Canadian Humorist Lectures Before
Crowd of Davidsonians

INTERNATIONAL JOSHER

|His Lecture on “Frienzied F iction” | =

Convulses Audience in Shearer
Hall—Critic of Fiction |
Everyone who attended the lecture given
by Stephen Leacock in Shearer Hall last |
Tuesday afternoon felt more than fully re-!
paid for their time and the small admission |
fee that was charged.
This Canadian has been referred to time |
and again as the “great international josher, |
He has been making Americans laugh at
Canadians, and Canadians laugh at “Amer-
icans, and both of them laugh at themselves
for the past 10 years since he left his chair
of political economy at McGill University,
Canada’s leading institution of learning.

|

|

The subject of Leacock’s lecture was
“Frenzied Fiction,’ and during the entire |
program the audience was entertained to a
high degree by the satirical guns that were
turned loose upon people all overthe earth, |
especially the English “Tommy.” Bits of
humor cropped out all during the lecture.
keeping the audience laughing and smiling
during the whole time. The lecture, as well
as most interesting, was both beneficial and
instructive, and taught the hearers many
things that they did not know before.

Leacock has spent several years in Eng-
land and the British possessions, studying the |
lives and customs of the people, and all
through his lecture he pulls off bits of humor
that are typical of the Englishman and his
associates. During his travels he took down
information for books which he hoped to
write, and which later on came from the
printer to entertain the large number of peo-
ple to whom it was impossible for him to lec-
ture to.

Among his best works are: “Behind the ;
Beyond,” “Further Foolishness,”

1

“Nonsense !

en Upper Classmen Urged to Go

two intercollegiate debates for the new men. |

repeated: gains.

Improvements on Campus
Assuming Complete Form

| Summer and Fall Activities Tend to
| Modernize Buildings on the Hill

CHAMBERS SHAPES UP

| Work on New Chambers and Other
Buildings Combine Beauty and
Safety on Campus

Whose repeated long runs brought |
defeat to Presbyterian College

First Debate is to be
With Emory December 5| i RR cea presented Hee a He
face to the students returning this year anc

|the promise of an ideal college to the men
lentering on their first year's experience here.
| Notable among the additions to last year's
picture are the progress on the new Cham
{hers building, repainting of the interior of
| Shearer Hall, remodeling of Rumple,

- Out for Prelims Which Will
Be October 20

The Forensic Council, with D. B. Whar
Through the summer, work on the south
wing of Chambers progressed steadily, The
excavations of last spring are the founda-
| tions now of a partially completed structure,
Debating division and the Polity division, wie Wien will upon its completion be the four
; hundred thousand dollar administration

| building. The two lower stories, except for
interior finishing, have been completed. The
i third story is in the process of construction,
The Debating division has now arranged | and the

a debate with Emory University,
on the 5th of December.
composed of three

|
; * |
ton as its president, has already been at work |
The |
Council is composed of two divisions, the

and has made plans for a big year.

former having charge of the intercollegiate
debates and the latter charge of the inter-
society debates.

whole is due for occupaney by Oc-
at Emory,| tober Ist; however, the hopes of the stu-
The team will be | dents are placed on February Ist, the begin-
men who will be chosen | ning of the second semester. The structure
at the preliminaries to be held on October | is of brickand stone, in keeping with the
20th. Davidson is to select the query and | architecture of the three newer dormitories,
Emory to choose the sides. The query has | and is soon to be followed by a central por-
already been submitted to Emory and by now | tion housing an auditorium with a seating
the material is in the library and ready for | capacity of 1,500, and a north wing similar
use, All upperclassmen are urged to go! in construction to the south wing.

out for this debate. In the spring there will |
be two more intercollegiate debates to be ar-
ranged later. :

Rumple has been so improved as to lower
lthe fire hazard for those rooming there.
| Sections of the middle rooms on the second
The Polity division is planning to have the | and third floors have been cut away to form
usual Fresh-Soph debates and probably oth-| halls leading to fire escapes. The
ers to be announced later. |shaky banisters on these floors have been
MhenG@ouncilealeomntende: touavenent or | rePlaced by substantial walls, which not only
anyone falling through them, but

| prevent

jalso decrease the draft which might abet a

The Freshman debate last year was a great | p
=) ‘ 5 | fire breaking out on these floors.

success and the men of '28 will be given a|

once

Fire escapes have been attached to both

make the Stunt Night this year the hest|Novels,) “Literary Lapses,” “Essays and
ever. Piggy Martin has already begun work-| Literary Studies,” and others. The above-
ing on the program and expectsto he issuing | mentioned volumes ‘are full of the author's
Parts to different men within a few days. | satire ad wit that have won such a name
The Stunt Night this year will }e on the| for him all over the world, In these volumes
same line as last year, and everyone that ex-| there is humor of all kinds, and jokes and
pects to attend will be entertained royally | humorous stories given to the world at the
for the better part of two hours. {expense of nearly every nation on the globe,

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS
FIVE NEW MEMBERS

The following men were elected to
membership: in the Sigma Upsilon

chance to show their ability. |

| sides, and the rear of Rumple. Shearer has
| fire escapes on the north and south sides,
|The Armory remodeled up-stairs for class
| rooms, also has a fire escape on the south
side, The rear of Georgia has been remade
into a serviceable escape system. Temporary,
| which now houses Biology, as well as Physics
Laboratories, has had the inside stairs re-

Any men who can act the part of black- |
faced comedians, Irish and Jewish comel-
ians, jigg dancers, singers, and ‘anyone who
can play any kind of musical instrument,
from a Jews’ harp to a base drum, is asked
to see Martin, Woodrow Wilson, or Joe
Earnest at once, as the program is to be
completed at an early date, and those desir-
ing t6 participate in the entertainment must
report at once.

The Stunt Night this year will be held on
the 18th of October in Shearer Hall. _ This
is the night before the Lenoir! game, and: it}
is thought that there will be a good crowd of
old grads and friends on the hill to make
the affair a success.

|

especially the Canadian, the American, and
the Englishman.

The author’s latest book is ‘Across the
Footlights.” In this volume is brought out
tales of the theatre and the stage as they
used to be, and is full of jokes, witty stories,
and puns which happened and could have
happened to those connected’ with the stage. !

Mr. Leacock spoke in Charlotte last Tues-
day evening, entertaining his audience as
usual, and winning favor and comment from’
those of the Queen City that heard him as
he-has-done from aif who have heard him.

Only a limited number of lectures: are
given by the author each winter, and David-

(Continued on page 7) |

literary fraternity at the regular meet-
ing held Wednesday night.. Four of
the newly elected members are from
the Senior class and one from the Ju-
nior class. Each ofthe men chosen
-has shown marked ability in one or
more lines of literary endeavor while
at Davidson.
Class of 1925:
J. R. Earnest
H. B. Price
J. B. Gallent.
R. W. Walker
Class of 1926:
C. F. Smith. }

arranged and a fire escape attached.

The once dark interior of Shearer is now
one of ivory whiteness. The effect is strik-
ing and the improvement very noticeable.

With the forward call of progress, Da-
vidson is rapidly falling in line with the
‘bettering of her present equipment and the
acquirement of new and better facilities.

Dr. C. M. Richards spent Sunday in
~~ Salisbury, N. C.. His pulpit was occupied
by Dr. Robert Bedinger, of Africa, who
delivered two excellent sermons. Dr.
Bedinger also made a very interesting
talk at the “Y” Sunday afternoon.

Cheer Team to Victory

Davidson came back in the second half at Asheville Saturday to over-
whelm the Presbyterian College of South Ca
drix swept around the Bluestocking ends and smashed through the line for
It was Hendrix's 32-vard run in the third quarter that lead

to the Sappenticld-Davis pass and touchdown, and it was his 45-yard twisting
| drive through the entire P, C. team that took the heart out of the South
Carolinians as the score leapt to 15-3,

rolina team 15-3, as Jim Hen-

Only in the first part of the gam
e did the P. C. squad have a chance
against Younger and ‘Tilson’s Red an
d Black machine, After a long punt
struck Sappentfield attempting to play i
t dead and was recovered by a Presby-
terian forward, the South Carolinian
s made 11 unsuccessful attempts to put
the ball over. \ place-kick was the on
lv way to a score,

With good line interference Sappentield
drove Hendrix, Sapp and Black down the
field first the
half ending too soon for a score.

Davidson took the ball from. kick-off
the second half straight into P. C. territory,
Lepgeette and Warner punts
evenly, Sam Summers tore into a Southern
punt and narrowly missed making a touch-
down by inches as Warner dived under him

for four consecutive downs,

in

exchanged

for a safety.

When Davidson got the ball Hendrix step-
ped off for 32 yards around left end, plac-
ing the ball on the thirty-fifth Presbyterian
marker, Captain Davis took Sappentield’s
20-yard pass away from three Bluestocking
backs and raced down the line to the
half-yard mark. Black bucked the ballover
on next play and kicked goal, Score 9-3,

After an exchange of punts Jim Hendrix
smashed the Presbyterian left. tackle and
twisted through the entire backfield for 45
yards and touchdown, Attempt to kick went
wild.

Twice following the Wildcats were de-
prived of touchdowns by penalties, Lincoln
having the ball back of Presbyterian goal
line once and Sappenficld running a punt
back 35 yards. The game ended with the
ball in Davidson's possession on P. C.’s four-

side

yard line, second down.

The Davidson backfield showed great spe:d
and drive while the first
downs, aW three of P. C.’s coming through

(Continued on page 6)

line allowed no

Sweet Singers Are
Selected for Glee
Club Organization

Preparations are now in full swing for
the year’s Glee Club, and from all indica-
tions a champion club is inevitable. The
main basis for this statement lies in the
fact that Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, to whom
last year’s marked success has been rightly
attributed, is again going to direct the sing-
ers in their efforts. Mrs. Baker
knowledged as one of the foremost musical
directors in the South, and Davidson is in-
deed lucky to secure her services in training
the club.

On last Wednesday night 75 boys were
present forthe first tryouts and from these
40 were selected on the ensuing Friday night.
Those at present on the club are: First
tenors, McClain, Howard, Singletary, Lock-
hart, Gray, J. S., Williams, Rogers, Cray-
ton, Russel, Stewart, and Kiser. Second
tenors, Dougias, Brown, Franklin,..}Vilson,
Montgomery, McRae, Hudson,  Allison,:
Purdy and Hamilton. First bass, Law-
rence, Currie, Wilson, Earnest, Count Davis,

(Continued on page 7)

is ac-
