4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

The Davidsonian.

|

|

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press pI
Association |

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15 |
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

_...Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

LISTON _D._ELKINS
REGINALD L. PRICE

Editorial Staff
C. M.S, McILWAINE_-._--.---..---------.-Managing Editor
. A, LAKE... Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
-.-..---Athletic Editor
-Peanut Parcher Editor
..----Associate Editor
ssociate Editor
..----Associate Editor
ee Alumni Editor

--....--..- Subscription
-Circulation Manager

J. A. TT .-Assistant Manager
W.T. .Y'} 1... . Geacs ...-Typist
J. M. GARRISON.......... ; Assistant
k, S. McALPIN...<:.. Service Manager
W. Ht CROMWELL _.....-Bookkeeper

ase _.Advertising |

HOUGH_._.-

REPORTERS’
HHURD, A. M,, Pres.

CLUB
O'CONNOR, F.

WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres. PARKER, R, B.
APPLEB . M. IN, J. H.
BOWIE MY § he

GARRISON,
GIBRS. L, B
GREEN, J. .
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. II.
MILHOUS, J. F.
MILTON, W
MOORE, J.
NK

j. M.

a
WILLIAMS, J. M.
WILSON, D. G.

EDITORIAL

The most original paragrapher today is
that one who can get away with a day's
work and never mention Tea-pot Dome or
Sinclair oil stock. Even the collegiate
editors are oiling their weekly paragraphics.

pa a) pea

Watered stock is branded by the econom-
ists as a terrible evil, but over-capitilization |
in the business world is hardly more serious |
than over-organization on a college campus,

D
A VIRTUE

HAT is a man without a character?

When one loses his good name, he

: has lost the respect and the admira-
tion of friends as well as enemies. Where is
the man to hold him in estimation? Shakes-

peare spoke of character inthe following
words:

MORROW, G. M.

“Who steals my purse, steals trash; ’tis
a something, nothing.
Twas mine, ’tis his, and has been slave to

thousands ;
3ut he who filches from me my good name,
Robs me of that which not enriches him,
And makes me poor indeed.”

A man’s character is the glory of his life,
and it constitutes a rank in itself. Society
would have no honest opinions if there were |
no honest members of it. What kind of men
exercise the best power in government and |
leadership? The answer is clear—men of
character! Everything should give place to
character. Intellect, even, is of lessor im-
portance. There is a great deal to admire in
intellcet; but, if we can not place whole-
hearted trust in a person, regardless of his
education, something is wanting.

The astute Benjamin Franklin attributed
his success in public life, not to his talents
or oratorical powers—for these were but |
secondary—but to his integrity of char-
acter. His friends, knowing him to be a man
of sense, industry, high ideals, and an open
heart, placed their entire confidence in him.
_ One of the most marked tests of character
is the manner in which we conduct ourselves
towards others. Gentleness is to be admired
in all things. “He who bears himself like a
gentleman, is worthy to have been born a |
gentleman.” Is it necesary to possess riches |

|
|

in order to be a gentleman? No! The poor
man is rich if he be honest, truthful, upright,
polite, temperate, courageous, self-respect-
ing and self-helping. “On his unembar-
rassed brow nature will write, ‘Gentleman.’ ”
Noble action crowns itself with lasting
“Tautels; and riches can not be regarded.as 2
requisite for noble actions. The laurels of
character are bestowed with no regard for
race, kin or station in life. The honor is

within the reach of us all.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the

benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,:

who desire to express their opinions on any, matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of

the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor

of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

ATHLETICS

What about them? Are Davidson men losing
interest in athletics? Davidson men, what are
you doing with athletics! You have a
spirit. You had a prestige. The prestige is gone.
The spirit is going. What are you going to do
about it? Are you going to cut the Wildcat’s
throat? You might well sit around in a
half-hearted, lethargi€al manner and moan and
knock and do nothing.

We are on the ragged edge. We have slumped
and are sliding fast toward a sure mediocrity in
everything athletic if we don't wake up. Every
man of us who has any ability at all ought to get

your

as

out and back the team—not by just rooting, buts,

by going out and making it so hot for the men
who make the team that they will have to be
Teams can't be made without mate-
Our athletes are not
And he

darn good,
rial and lots of training.
working: ask Coach; he will tell you so,
ought to know.

Coach Tex Tilson came back from Virginia af-
ter much persuasion to give all He had toward
developing men for football next fall. His and
Coach Monk's hopes were to develop prospects
by a two-months’ period of spring practice. It
has failed lack of support. Whose fault?
Ours! Eighty-two men reported for the first
practice, but in two weeks the number had slump-
ed off to slightly than two? full teams.
Think of it! Now Coach Tex has a hard time get-
ting enough men on the field to form a line and
backfield, What is wrong?
Or, are Davidson men just lazy?

Track shackled at. first bad weather has
gotten off to a bad start, but not on account of
the weather alone, The men are not out train-
There are too many who would rather fol-
low a golf ball over a cow pasture for exercise.
Material has to be developed. We have a track
schedule that no one can laugh at. It is hard.
And yet there are men who won't put their share
into it.

Baseball?—Here again is mediocre interest at
the very time we need enthusiasm.
barely over two full teams out. But this is not
so bad as the other sports. Would you blame our
coaches? for being discouraged? They perhaps
don’t show it, for they are a game group and are
doing their best. We are not backing them, that
is the trouble! Davidson men you are not taking
the personal interest in athletics you should and
athletics here will never be what they should be
until you get off the dime and work.

An Observer.

AN ORIENTAL LETTER

The following letter from Davidson's mission-
ary to Korea is self-explanatory. William P.
Parker is teaching Davidson ideals in the Orient.

Pyengyang, Chosen, Korea, Feb. 22, 1924.
Dear Davidson Boys:

How wonderfully God has blessed the meetings
we have just finished in our little chapel. You
remember that last time I wrote I spoke of tliis
work in which Mr. Hamilton and I are especially
engaged, and what-I said of having special serv-
ices. We had thought of having the services the
last-of December or the first of January, as I
wrote at that time, but everything seemed to
point to the time of the Korean New Year as the
best opportunity to reach the people, so we
finally fixed on this date, which was February 5th
according to our Calendar.. So, on February 6th
we began a Women’s Bible Class in the chapel,
and had meetings every night, especially for the
women, though the men were invited, too. After
one week of these special meetings in connection
with the class, we began revival. meetings for all,
so in all we had two weeks. of services, closing
the night of the 20th.

Those who studied in the class went out each
afternoon after four, when their studies closed,
and preached to the people, each house in the
village being visited at least three times. When
the revival services proper began there had been
already about 65 who had accepted Christ. With
the second week we began a Bible class for men,
and the men went out in the same manner as the
women the week before, and each home was
visited again and again. In all the conversions
were 132! The little village has not but about
100 houses in it, so you can see that this was a
marvelous showing, and only the working of
God’s spirit could bring this about; He did use
the speakers in a very special way.

The services were conducted during the latter
week by the college preaching band, and these
boys who gave talks were deeply spiritual them-
selves, and the results showed that their mes-
sages were very real to those who heard. On
only one night, as I remember it, did anyone go
away without accepting Christ. On that night
a woman scoffed, and would not decide, and a
man said that he would have to think the matter
over but that he could not decide then, as he
wanted to be very sure that he would not back-
slide. After the meeting, Mr. Hamilton and I

for

more

Does no one care?

by

ing.

There are

talked to this man, and found that he had been a
baptized believer years ago under Dr. Swallen,
but had since then fallen into sin. He said he
wanted to bring his wife and children into the
church, and would see us about) the matter the
next day, and in spite of all we said, put the mat-
ter off. Thank God he was given further oppor-
tunity, and the next day he really did accept and
attended the meetings regularly thereafter.

Of course, we realize that all of those who pro-
fessed Christ may not have been in earnest, and
some, perhaps, maysturn back to their old ways,
but God has wonderfully shown His power here,
and may all whom He has called be faithful unto
Him till death. As you know, we do not receive
these new believers as members yet, nor are they
baptized till they have gone through a course
of study and understand thoroughly what it is
they are to believe. It usually takes two or three
years for a new believer to become a regular
member of the church, for these peop& come out
of rank heathenism, and know nothing at all of
the doctrines ofthe religion of Jesus Christ. May
God guide us in the teaching of these people dur-
ing the coming months and years, and may THe
keep them as His very own,

The problem now is just that; how are we go-
In the first
place, the building we have is so small that tt
even the
much less the men, and some 130 children who
We have decided
to have three Sunday Schools, and that will hetp,
but even so the crowd is too great.
think by using two adjacent dwellings we may te
thle to do passable work, and since we have had
to use these buildings right along, one for tive
girls and one for the boys, we shall continue to do
Our little chapel is only about the size of an
ordinary room at home, if as large, and consis?s
merely of two wings forming an L, one wing be-
ing about six by twenty feet, the other about six

ing to teach and keep these people?

will not accommodate women alone,

gather every Sunday to study,

However, we

sO,

. by twelve. So you-see when we get 100 people in

the rooms are full, and we have over 100 women,
about men, and 150 children to study
every Sunday. Vast Sunday we simply could not
get the women in, but as [ said, by using the two
adjacent dwelling houses, we hope to at least get
them in this coming Sabbath.

Our urgent need is for a new building, and as
these people are all extremely poor, how we can
get the money is a big question. We believe in
self-suppport, but there is always a limit to what
a people can do; even to build the little chapel
they have was hard. Pray for us in this work,
for these new believers, and for the problems that
ar’ vet to be settled. We are indeed most grate-
ful to God for a part in this great revival, and
praise His holy name for it all.

We have had a good year so far in all our work,
but the mild winter, or the much wind, has caused’
much sickness both among the Koreans and the
foreigners. Since so many were homeless and in
dire need this winter on account of the floods last
summer, it is providential that the weather has
been mild, but there is always more sickness
when this is the case. Our own children have

50

some

* been sick a great deal, and this same thing is true

of the other children of the compound. They all
seem to be better at present, and we hope the
worst is over with.

I just want to tell you two incidents connected
with children, one with the foreigners, the other
of the Koreans, The other day, I had occasion
to go over to the foreign school which Jean at-
tends together with the other children of the
station and some 15 boarders from other stations
in Korea. It was recess and the smaller ones were
out playing. Directly one of them began to cry
at something that had gone wrong. Well, I have
been at school in America, and I know what cry-
ing brings: teasing, and ridicule, if nothing more.
The contrast to this was so great that I could not
help commenting on it at the time, and could not
but be proud of our missionary children. When
the little girl in distress began to cry, another
threw her arms around her neck and wanted to
know what was the matter, another rushed up to
help untangle a cord that ‘had become twisted
around the little one in distress, and all were so
evidently deeply hurt, that it was touching to see
them. I know when missionary children go home
they sometimes have the reputation of being—
well, not the best in the world—but really as a
whole they are very exceptional, even if I do say
“so as shouldn't.”

The other incident is not one that can be told
of one case only, for there are many such things
happening all the time. The other night at the
service, in order to keep better tab on the new be-
lievers, we asked who had brought them to the
meeting. One woman said, “My little girl brought
me. She just kept asking me to come till I had to
listen.” The same thing had happened a few
Sundays ago, and as I say, is no rare occurrence.
So you see some of the results of our heathen
Sunday Schools; when these children get into the
school and come to know Christ themselves they
desire to have their parents also, and there is
nothing too hard for them to do. Much of our
success in these meetings was due to the little
Sunday School that has bene held in this village,
into which the heathen children have been led in
great numbers. Pray for this work all over
Korea, for there are thousands of these children
whose parents do not yet believe. ree

With every assurance of deep interest in all
your work, and very.best wishes, I am,

Yours in His Service,
Wn. P. Parker.

|

| thanked him and. started off.

Chaff

THE OLD HOME TOWN

Most all have felt the throb of city streets
Infuse itself intotheir minds; the taste
Of glamor; life raised to a fever heat
By constant bustle, roar and rattle, waste
Of sweat drawn money—for a tinsel foil,
Of means ill-gotten from another’s toil.

But dreams of childhod days come back again—
The summer winds and moonlight nights are
there.
The hum of bees, long lazy days, andthen—
A sweetened memory of laughing hair
And rougish eyes from one you called your own.
The years have passed—your love dreams all have
flown.
The old home
brings; ;
Of childish joys. of happiness and bliss;
The first sweetheart—the notes of birds in Spring

town. What pleasant dreams it

When thoughts of young men turn to their
fair miss.
Ah! those were days of true contentment, Strife

Had never forced itself into your life.

How sweet are thoughts of vesteryear, the friends
We used to know seemed to us kind and true,
The old familiar scenes that mem’ry lends
Brings tender visions in our hearts renew.
We feel a stirring in our hearts to go
Back to the old home town we used to know.

A face comes fleeting back, through all the years;
A mother's face which only time can prize.
We yet remember the last sad sight, the tears;
We still can see the lovelight in her eyes.
The light that shone for years still shines to-
night .
From out the window with its candle bright.

The Old Home Town is calling, soft and low
Come half-forgotten voices from the past—
The lure of youthful sports from long ago.
We come to see the one clear path at last.
Clear comes the call, we cannot turn it down,
The best of places is the Old Home Town,

SMALL TOWN NEWS

Hank Hokum, the popular tonsorial artist, who
is deft with his blades, gives as his opinion that
the oil doings up at Washington is the slickest
thing going now. ° :

Roy Razzybury, our handsome Bow Brummel
Blacksmith says that the balloon tires has every-
one up in the air.

Miss Susie Sizzler has ordered a brand new
case of hairnets for the coming courting season,
and being as this is leap-year.

“Git fer home Bruno,” has become just as pop-
ular lately as “Iskabibble” ever was in its hey-
day. The Old Home Town still continues to be
the mecca for all rich plutocrats that come back
to their native haunts and dazzle the yokels with
their opulence, when they left under the ban and
curse, that “he never will be no count, and he’s
a-liable to end up in the pen-e-tentiary.

The old villege apothecary shop has turned in-
to a glittering show of shiny white marble and
soda fountains. The old boys that used to hang
around the livery stable and warble “Sweet
Adeline” to the mournful plunking of the ‘git-tar’
are all now automobile mechanics, have families
and play Mah Jong. The village blacksmith has
made a complete metamorphosis into an’ up-to-
date garage with a full line of radio parts. The
little girl with great dark eyes and black hair
that used to be the belle of the town is now a
leading jurist and head ofthe Sunday School
League.

(Of course the Old Home Town has nothing to
do with oil except that used as laxative and lub-
ricants, but we could not resist taking a shot at
the popular theme of the present time.)

SUGGESTIONS FOR A NEW YELL

“What's the matter with Dougheny?
He’s OIL right.
What's th® matter with Dougheny?
He’s OIL right.
We'll drink to his wealth in ‘jOILity;’
He mops up the lucre with OIL wells three,
What's the matter with Dougheny?
He’s OIL right.”

I inquired the way to the house ofthe Home
Town centenarian, Finding him behind the house
skipping the ropes with the children, I asked him
to what he attributed his longevity.

“Wall,” he said, in a drawling voice, “I haint
a man of many words, but I allers prides myseli
by saying that I have allers taken my own sweet
time, drunk all the likker I wanted, smoked since
I wuz six, and ain’t tuck an order from no female
woman yet. An’ whut’s more I never intent to.”

Satisfied by this very plausible statement, I
I had not gor far
from him when he called me back and said, “Wall,
there’s just one more thing that I can figger on
that’s put me where I am at now, I wuz born a
fur piece back.”
