THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

LOST

A Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen. Name |
on side. Please return to 15 North Barracks. |

|
Mrs. Fraser Hood and her sister-in-law,
Gather arouid> pang, afid let's give 15 | Mrs. Wagner, left on Tuesday for Water

Eat Bea ae | Valley, Miss., where Mrs. Hood will spend
Stoans for the guy who said we'd have con- |Decembef. Dr. Hood and his daughter,

valk 6
crete walks by 1924. {Miss Kallista, will visit there during the

Yellow Cabs
Are Good Cabs

Just Phone

Town News

penta
Miss Mary King Daniel, of New York
| City, who has been a guest at Dr. Grey's
|home, returned on Monday to New York.

| The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs.
|Hood on Friday. Dr. Richards made the
speech of the evening.

The Thelmites will meet with Mrs. Porter
jon Friday. The speakers will be Mrs. Er-

!win, Mrs. Martin, Miss Steele and Mrs.

Any Hour of the 24 ae
Charlotte to Davidson 8)

or | Mrs. Erwin has been ill for several days,

Davidson to Charlotte [eae is improving.

YOU’LL FIND THEM
ALWAYS ON THE JOB

Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.

Look For Our Private Phone

in Brown’s

Ted Muchachas has* been carried to the
j hospital for an operation.

Mrs. J. Moore McConnell gave a “taffy
pull” on Thursday evening.

Master Courtney MacConnell gave a “tafty
party” on Saturday cevning.

Miss Helen Johnston, who has been quite
ill, is improving rapidly.

Rev. Dr. Morris, who spoke twice on last
Sabbath, was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C.
M. Richards.

We Invite Your

Business

The ladies of the town held their Bazaar
on Tuesday

for

Mrs. Archibald Currie has been ill
several days.

LARGE OR SMALL

Miss Dorothy Rowland, of Rocky Mount, |
N. C,, has been viisting her sister, Mrs. D.

| DAVIDSON FRIENDS MOURN
| DEATH OF MISS M. STEELE

Early last Saturday morning Miss Mamie
| Steele died at Flora Macdonald College, Red

| Springs, N. C. She was the sister of Miss |

Orrie Steele, secretary to Dr. Martin, and
| she occupied a similar position at Flora Mac-
donald College.
Flora Macdonald for a number of years, and
/was an important member ofthe administra-
tive force. Miss Orrie Steele was called
Wednesday morning to the bedside of her
sister, whose health had been failing since
last summer. The interment was at Rock
Hill, S. C., Sunday.

Miss Steele had visited in Davidson and
had a number of friends among the people
here.

LOCAL MARINE IN ACTIVE
SERVICE IN NICARAGUA

Washington, November.—Among the U. S.
‘Marines recently assigned to duty in Central
America is Loyd Livingston Lowrence, of
Davidson, N. C., who is now a member of
the American Legation Guard at Managua,
Nicaragua, according to the official records
at Marine Corps Headquarters here..

Loyd, who is a son of Mr, Henry C, Low-
rence, of Davidson, joined the Marine Corps
at Charlotte last August. He has recently
j been stationed at Paris Island, S. C., and will
probably, remain in Nicaragua for a year or
‘longer before returning to the United States.

A small guard of U. S. Marines has been
maintained in ~Nicaragua since 1912, when
they occupied that country to restore order
during a revolution, Although they are far
from home, the Marines find many ways to
entertain themselves. The country abounds
in game, and hunting is one of their favorite
pastimes. No doubt Lowrence will havé
many interesting adventures to recount when
jhe returns home.

|| BIG BUSINESS THE THEME

Ta)

(Continuedfrom page 2)

She had been in the work at |

|B. Van Sant {have found the“Messiah, which is, being in-
| | terpreted, the Christ. And he brought him

INDEPENDENCE |] ws. . B. Elliott returned to Fort De ae eee
| fiance, Va. on Monday, with her mother, |~ “What did Andrew do?
TRUST CO.

| Mrs. Gordon, for a short visit. brother to Christ, then slipping back, sub-
; merged his own personality in bringing his

| brother into contact with the personality of

| Christ.”

| The speaker then pointed out who this

| Jesus is—the man into whose presence An-

| drew had brought his borther, and in whose

”

| The ladies of the church are busily pre-

“ON THE SQUARE” eee for a Christmas program,

Last weck the Rotary Club from Moores-
iville met in the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. p A ;
| Dr. MacConnell had charge of arranging for |COMPany he had left him, Christ was pic-

He brought his |

‘Ancient Rules of Campus
Sport Brought to Light

President U. Foolem Toiled Dili-
gently and Conscientiously on
| Unfolding Rules

After weeks of gruesome toil and diligent
research work, the All-American Intercol-
legiate Campus Football Association has
drawn up the following rules for the purpose
of eliminating the difficulties which so often
arise in playing the college boys’ favorite
sport—campus football. It it the unex-
‘pressed desires of President U. Foolem, of
the aforementioned A, A. I, C. C. A., that
every campus football enthusiast of Davidson
acquire a set of these rules and keep same
carefully filed away for future use. They
‘are as follows:

Rule 1, Only college students (no profs,
| janitors, or co-eds) shall be eligible for this
game, known as campus football.

Clause 1. All members of the Vion
Tamer’s Club, Yellow Dog Association, and
the K. K. K. shall also be excluded.

Rule 2. The game shall in no wise be
played at any place other than/the college
campus,

Rule 3. Each side shall/consist of two
divisions known the “prow” and the
“stern,” or the “offense? and the “defense.”

Clause 1, In-no case shall the number in
the prow excced thé number in the opening
| stern, or vice versa.

Clause 2, There shall be no limit to the
jnumber of players so long as the law of
definite préportions is observed.

Claus¢ 3. Neither shall there be any ob-
ject to the game other than exercise.

Rule 4, In all cases of dispute the quar-
fterback of Ahe losing side shall act as judge,
and his decision shall be based on the size
jand disposition of his opponents.

Rule 5. Any player catching the ball on
jthe fourth bounce ‘shall be penalized four
| yards in the direction that the ball was roll-
jing,
| Rule 6, Any player wishing to intercept a
| pass must make known his intentions before
| the ball is snapped.

Clause 1. Failure to comply with this
regulation will be penalized by exchanging
| goals,
| Clause 2. Failure to intercept a pass after
| announcing his intention, the offender will be
| placed opposite the largest player of the op-
| posing side,
| Rule 7. This game shall not be played
after dark, on Sunday, Christmas, or on the

aes of any player on either side.

as

Literary Societies

METROPHILIAN

The officers elected at a recent mecting of
the Metrophilian Society were installed at
the regular meeting last Tuésday night. The
weekly debate was also held, the query for
which was: Resolved, That America should
help Germany at the’ present time, Guiton
and Stewart upheld/the affirmative and were
opposed by Gracey and Pullen. The judges
voted two to oné in favor of the affirmative.
Following a general discusson of the ques-
tion, reports/of last term’s work were given
by the first and second critics, the treasurer,
and the/vice-president.

The/officers installed at this meeting were:
F. M. Gracey, presideyt; M. C. McLeod,
vice-president; W. T. Covington, secre-
tary; A. C. Ray, first critic; R. B. Parker,
second critic; G. R. Sims, first supervisor;
Jack Hand, second supervisor; A. C. Ray,
first marshall; E. T, Pullen, second marshall.

PANDEINIC

The query, Resolved, That America should
aid Germany at the present time, was dis-
cussed at the last meeting of the Pandeinic
Literary Society by DeWitt Hancock, who
upheld the affirmative, and J. B. Webb, of
the negative. The decision was awarded the
affirmative. An oration by C. F. Monk on
«ls the Candle Light concluded the brief but«
interesting program, which was cut short on
account of a conflicting entertainment. The
critic’s repoft was given by F, T. Franklin.

Freshmen at Hampden-Sidney are re-
quired to carry matches for the use of
the upper classmen. Any freshmen fail-

ing to do this must carry a large block
of wood for a week.

Need Money?

Reey |guests from Davidson, Among those pres-|tuted first as Deity—God Incarnate—one |

CHARLOTTE Nee jent were Captain and Mrs. R. D, Dougherty | Petson with two natures. Christ was a ae w NRW TnAGe Caan cuntiee

and Miss Hattie Thompson. Mrs, Dough- | wlio had power which could not be ap-
erty sang to Miss Hattie’s accompaniment. broached by any other ued AiG oe
| In the second place, He died as an atoning

WE have a plan where-

by college men can real-

«

At a meeting of the Ministerial Band last Ze anincome while going

| ce . ope c e . ° .
YN == = as = sh | sacrifice. His crucifixion Was a part of the | Sunday afternoon there was election of offi- to school and at the same
Divine plan of His coming into the world. jcers for the coming term. The following ‘ fecal l
T ILORE He could not have been crucified if it had | were elected: J. M. Carr, president; L. L. time secure protessiona
A D AT FASHION PARK not been planned for Him to die for the sins,! Deck, vice-president; R. S, Wilson, secre- training which may be
of the world. tary. °
a ; : ee
Ke Then He arose, and today He reigns with) A, N, Moffett, retiring president of the used later in establishing
My God. . He stands today with power ready to, Ministerial Band, had charge of the meeting. ‘
| |help those in trouble who call on Him. He} After the singing of several songs, J. M. ) professionally - owned
| is the risen, powerful Lord of the world) Murchison and J. J. Ricks led the house in and profitable business.
| today. |prayer. G. F. Houck read the scripture les-
An interesting incident was narrated in| son, which was found in John 15. This was
son, as S, as : 0
bts ;Which a young minister, who had planned a followed by sentence prayers by all the mem- A University of North
LM deep, well-arranged sermon showing the | bers of the band. Carolina man qualified
fl marks of a trained mind, but a sermon! The election of officers followed. For
H which would cause the people to see the | president, J. M. Carr, P, B. Freeland and A. for our $100,000 club
preacher rather than Christ, tore up the ser-| M, Martin, were nominated ; Carr was elect-
mon and preached, instead, of the Nazarene ed, For vice-president, L. L. Deck, C. F. last year. You, too, can
nt with such effect that the people could see | Mank, and A. B. Williford, were nominated ; make money as our rep-
L /only Christ. He had submerged his own Deck was elected. For secretary, Jack Hand, : hile ¢
Ky personality in bringing the people into con-| R, §, Wilson, C. W. Williams, and C. J. resentative while in
tact with Him, = ane : Hansel, were nominated ; Wilson was elected. college
The only real minister is Christ. Paul) ‘The installation service will be held De-
boasted that he was the minister of Christ.) cember 7th. At. this meeting there will be
IM) = He had the message—the message of Christ, a written report read by the chairmen of the
and he was the messenger of Christ.” various committees. There were 30 mem-
ls “Never was there a greater misconception | hers of the band present last Sunday. A full
1 than that coming to Christ is something for | attendance is expected for the installation
the dying hour.” It is the greatest step in a! service.
eebercss a person’s life, and not to be left to the dying | LIFE INSURANCE co.
FASHION PARK WN hour. Trinity College claims to have intro- Greensboro, N. C.

He. takes human life, remolds and reshapes
it—redeems life. Men come through Him to
| God—their lives are renewed. It is a work
which science, art, and all forms of learning
| cannot do. He is the only One who can
U make life anew.

N. G. Patterson presided, Bub Oeland and
Roland Parker led in prayer, and W. P. Nes-
bitt rendered a cornet solo during the service.

duced football in the South, by defeat-
ing Carolina 17-0 in 1887. This game is
| supposed to have been the first real in-
| ter-collegiate football game played south
lof the Potomac river.

H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

i t ~.
For the average party the average man requires two rather im-

portant items---an invitation and a Tuxedo. We can supply the
latter at a moment’s notice, and you are invited to see it whenever

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dyeing

you feel the urge. Evening clothes from the Fashion Park design-
ing rooms meet all the social and quality requirements.

WE RENT TUXEDOS AND FULL DRESS SUITS —

The championship “hobo” of Mercer
University is R. E. Walker, who recently
“bummed” from Chicago to Georgia in
four days and only spent five cents while
en route. Walker left Georgia in June
to go West to work in the wheat fields,
‘after working through the whole harvest
season Walker made the trip back safely.
Most of his riding was done on freight
cars.

_ Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

Pree

