|

c

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year __ ;

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.....-........Editor
KENNETH S, McALPIN. Business M

Editorial Staff

Assistant Managing Editor
-Peanut Parcher Editor
-A iate Editor
--Associate
Associate
--Alumni
---Athletic Editor

Fool baiec eal he)
cee

Editor

rom >aga

D.
D.

Business Staff

Subscription Manager
Bookkeeper
Service Manager
Typist

J. M. GARRISON
. P. GLADNEY

D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. J 0
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSO P, F, JONES
. M. APPLEBY J.D. LAWS
1. M. AUSTIN W. WH. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW. R. HH. McILWAINE
W. HH. BRANCH GARNETT McMILLAN
V. S. BROYLES J. E, MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN . C, MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON - FE. P, O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS R. B.

; OK

« REC
J.B. THOMPSO
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

COURTESY

Courtesy is defined as general and habitual
politeness. By definition, therefore, cour-
tesy is characteristic of every gentleman.
True courtesy, however, is something more
than mere politeness ; it embodies the spirit
of chivalry which grew up during the middle
ages. Chivalry came to be an elaborate
ceremonial with very little of its original
spirit inculeated into it, but the spirit lives
on today, expressing itself in true ex urtesy.

Courtesy is regarded as an essential at
Davidson, and discourteous conduct — is
frowned on by everyone. When the David-
son hand played “Hark, the Sound of Tar
Heel Voices,” the University alma mater,
at the Carolina game, they “exhibited true
courtesy to a visiting team, a courtesy which
was remarked by Carolina alumni. Athletic
courtesy is more casy to regulate than other
forms of gentlemanly conduct, because of
the fact that-the students realize that upon
their courtesy” and sportsmanship will be
formed the judgment of the outside world.

To reflect credit on the institution of
which we are members should, by no means
he the only incentive to courteous conduct.
We should take into consideration also the
effect on our own individual characters.
Both of these motives should prompt us to
practice courtesy at all times. Upon our
hehavior at. public functions depends both
our own good name, and the good name of
Davidson College. :

Last week when the Greensboro College

Glee Club gave a performance in Shearer
Nall, the mood and behavior of the audience
was such as to give to an outsider an untrue
impression of Davidson courtesy. The con-
duct! of the students was.such’as to lower
the impressions of the gentlemanliness of
Davidson students. Proper courtesy was
not shown to the ladies who performed, and
the scene at the close came near to being
an exhibition of rowdyism.:

While college students everywhere are
notoriously free with remarks at picture
shows and entertainments, there are times

when even college students should conform.

to the dictates of common courtesy and
good breeding. Allowances can be made
for the freedom at the movies, but we must
be careful about the impressions which visit-
ing entertainers carry back with them from
our campus. The discourtesy to outsiders
cannot be swept aside with the old excuse
that it is due to the irrespressible good
spirits of youth. Discourtesy anywhere
mune be faced squarely and regarded as
such,

It is our responsibility to see that no other
visitors carry away memories such as the
singers carried back the other night. We
do not believe that Davidson students are
intentionally discourteous; we believe that
thoughtlessness was largely responsible for
the behavior of the audience. But whatever
the cause for any discourtesy, it cannot be
excused. The facts remain.  .

The Davidson spirit embodies in it the
elements of giving the best that is in us to
our college, and the keeping the good name
of that college unsullied by showing the best

Managing Editor |
Assistant Managing Editor |

Editor |
Editor |

----Circulation Manager |

| that is in us to others. Upon us depends our

| own reputation and that of Davidson Col-

| lege. Let us keep them both up to the
standard which Davidson has always set.

THANKSGIVING

| ODAY, the last Thursday in Novem-
ber, is a day set apart throughout our

nation as a day of thanksgiving, a day |

on which to review and acknowledge the
| mercies which God has bestowed. upon us
during the year just past. We look upon
Thanksgiving Day, in some measure, as a
strictly American institution, although his-
| tory shows that from the earliest times man
| has set apart certain days on which to thank
some-higher power, either for general good
or for some special dispensation which he
received,

The ancient Jews kept the Feast of In-
gathering when for seven days they held
elaborate ceremonies celebrating the har-

them.
grain and abundance of fruit, was to them
the symbol of all which they received, and
| they acknowledged the goodness of a higher

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any. matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. ie names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

COACH MONK REQUESTS!

Coach Monk Younger wishes to engage the co-
operation of the.entire student body in prevent-
ing any basketball playing on the court in the

| Alumni Gymnasium while street shoes are being

worn,
This request is nothing beyond a plea for fair
play to the varsity basketball team. All who are in

| any way familiar with the indoor court game

vest, and acknowledging God’s goodness to |
The harvest, which its showers of |

realize the impossibility of good basketball upon
a court dented and scratched beyond all smooth-
ness. The Davidson team will be placed at a

| distinct disadvantage when playing away from
| home should they have to practice on such a

| court.

power by a week of thanksgiving, a week |

in which the thank offering played an im-
portant part. !

The Greeks and Roman’s, also, with their |

conception of a pantheon of deities, recog-
nized that the goods which they derived
/ came from some higher power, and gave
[Ahanks to the gods, holding festivals to
mollify their wrath and keep them well dis-
posed toward their earthly followers. The
Greeks held a nine-day feast to Demeter, the
goddess of the corn fields and harvest, offer-
ing fruits, wine, honey, and milk at her altar.
The Roman-Cereliawas-afeast dedicated to
Ceres, the counterpart of the Greek
Demeter. Both of these pagan feasts of
thanksgiving degenerated into heathen or-
gies of uncontrolled sensuousness, the orig-
inal purpose being subordinated to the pleas-
| ure of the revellers.
On down through the
thanksgiving continued, some sects modi-
fying the general rule by fasting during the
periods of thanksgiving. The Ineglish Har-
vest Home was a day very much like the
ancient Jewish feasts, with the additional
feature of sports on the common added, The
harvest was a time of gayety, for it repre-
sented the fulfillment of the work of a whole
year. The English. fell-into the habit of
holding days of thanksgiving in commem-
“oration of every happening of note, which
iffected the life of the nation. The defeat
of the Spanish Armanda was celebrated by
such a day; the recovery of King George
| from his insanity was the cause of another
| holiday, The desire for holidays made days
of thanksgiving a common occurence, Sim-
ilar days were observed in France and Ger-
| many, but they never degenerated to the
| level of the holidays in England.
| The first thanksgiving in America was
held on the shoes of Newfoundland in 1578.

centuries, feats of

swept beach and gave thanks to7God for his
goodness and mercy. In 1607 the Popham
‘Colony who settled at Sagadahoc, Maine,
held services of thanksgiving. The first real
Thanksgiving Day observed in America,
however, was the celebration made by the
Pilgrim fathers.

December 13, 1621 was the day appointed
by Governor Bradford of the Plymouth Col-
only for giving thanks to God, and on that

day the dwindling band of settlers held the

end courage characterized the setting apart
of a day for thanksgiving. In the light of

giving seems a piece of bitter irony. Famine
and disease during that first winter had
| Swept away half of those who had establish-
ed the colony. The end of the first year
found the colony diminished by half, with
small prospects. of successful colonization.

| common sense,

Everyone also realizes the impossibility
of a court in anything better than the worst con-
dition as long as the present custom of street-
shoe basketball continues.

Coach Younger says that each individual should
refrain from this and also should try to build up
a college sentiment against it.

Coach Monk also wishes to ask all tennis play-
ing in the gymnasium to cease. This request
arises from the fact that the great number’ of
broken window panes—broken by tennis balls—
have been replaced.

The above two requests are nothing more than
To comply with them is simply
supporting the Davidson coaches and the David-
son teams.

L. D. W., Jr.

fecling of pleasure over the fact that an

cxtra day of rest has been included in the

|

An English clergyman stood on the wind-.,

| most completed another season.
| first American Thanksgiving Day. Bravery |

history the appointing of that first Thanks- |

week; one more day when the body may
rest.

The thank offering which was a feature of
the Jewish feast is another phase of the
Thanksgiving season which we are prone to
neglect. While thanking God for-his mer-
cies to us, we should remember those with
whom life has not dealt so gently. The help-
ing of the needy at Thanksgiving is a con-
crete test of our thankfulness, and one
which we should not overlook,

The past year has been a red letter year
in Davidson histéry. The campaign for the
rebuilding of Chambers was brought to a
successful conclusion; the enrollment was
the greatest in her history; the morale of
the College has been raised to a point which
it has seldom reached in former years; the
development of a well-organized plan of
athletics has been begun; and old Davidson
has a wider sphere of influence than ever
hefore.

Today is a day of real thanksgiving; God
has been good to us. May we in a spirit of
humbleness offer thanks to Him, and _ re-
membering the achievements of the past,
look forward to a still greater year of serv-
ice for Davidson in every line.

THE GRAND FINALE

Both the Varsity and Freshman football
teams have made records this year of which
we are proud. The fighting team has al-
Today the
curtain falls on football; it is the last act,
the Davidson-Trinity game.-Upon this game
depends our standing in the 1924 scramble
for state grid honors,

The Red and Black machine goes into its
final game with a record of six victories, two
defeats, and one tie game. Coach Youriger’s

, Warriors have scored one hundred and five

| Prospects for the ensuing winter were none |

Yet in the face of all the dis-
which must have weighed

too bright.
couragement

tor his good tess.

Tt was such a spirit which kept alive the
| Spirit of freedom, and made the beginnings
of our United States of America. Thanks-
giving under such circumstances seems next
to impossible to us, and yet the sincerity
which characterized their worship could weil
be copied.by us in our comparative opulence
and wealth. Theirs was the spirit which
could take encouragement from seeming
sethacks, and make of obstacles stepping
stones to success.

As in the festivals of the Romans and
| Greeks, the tendency with us is to overlook
the purpose of Thanksgiving Day in the en-
| joyment of the physical pleasures which it

brings. To'many, Thanksgiving Day-means

a holiday with turkey and cranberry sauce

at dinner. The idea of worship does not

enter into the consciousness of many, The

only thankfulness in the hearts of some is a

points while their opponents were making
twenty-five. Only twice in nine games has
their goal line been crossed. Four field goals
make up the extra points. But all this
record is behind us. The game today will

| tell the story, for the present is what counts.

heavily on tnem, they gave thanks to God |

Never has a scrappier bunch of Wildcats
represented Davidson than this year’s team.
Under Coaches Younger and Tilson they
have molded into a Red and Black machine
composed of eleven well-oiled and smooth-
working cogs. The men turned over by

; Coach Rawson from last year’s freshman

squad have had a large share in the season’s
success,

Next year another well-trained team will
be turned over to the Varsity squad. The
Freshman team, despite their crushing de-
*eat by Furman, have had a successful year,
winning six games. For-the second straight
year we have had winning Fresh teams. To
Coach Rawson belongs the credit. |

Coach Monk has made wonderful head-
way against odds in the short time he has
been Athletic Director. Abiv assisted ‘by
Coach Tilson in the line, and Coach Rawson
with the Freshmen, he has built a team
which can truly be called a Younger team.
We have faith in our coaches, we have faith

|

THE FIRST THANKSGIVING

The whole tribe of the Chocoloco Indians had
just come back from the happy hunting grounds
in the Socku valley, and all of them were in high
spirits. Chief Koolumoff was sitting in’ his fliv-
ver out on the boulevard smoking an El Ropa
and reading the latest edition of the Smart Set
Magazine. He was right in the middle of a
thriller about a beautiful young lady who had
just fled from the dance in terror of her life.
Her escort had become drunk and had mistaken
her for the waitress, terriifying her and causing
her to flee for her life. She had fled down the
street in the darkness and had stumbled over a
flea which hopped up, making such a noise that
it almost petrified her.

Just at this point the three rear tires blew out,
scaring the poor flivver so badly that it imme-
diately took to the old barn in haste. Chief
Koolumoff was so surprised and dumbfounded
that he could hardly keep his wits about him, but
when he at last came back to normal and found
that he was unhurt, he locked the steering wheel,
dumped an extra bucket of oats and two extra
bundles of fodder in the trough, and put the old
laprobe over the hood, he hung up the bridle,
turned off the light and started to the wigwam.

Upon his arrival at the kitchen door, his squaw,
old Minnihehaw, turned on the faithful vacuum
cleaner, drawing the old chief close enough in
order to enable her to dash a hot bowl of chop
suey all over the front of his vest, at the same
time wanting to know why he had not cut the
stovewood before he left, and what he meant by
going to work without leaving her enough money
to pay the butcher and the ice man.

All of this was too much for the bewildered
old white-man scalper, and in a fit of fury he
grabbed up the telephone and threw it at his
beloved, striking her on the fifth rib, instantly
killing her. When the chief saw that she was
dead he took down his bow, sliarpened his arrows
on the old grindstone, filled his steamheated
perculator, put on his patent leather dancing
pumps, called the police, cranked up his faith-
ful old Fierce Sparrow, called to his old pointer,
and started off into highway number 26.

When all of his tribe saw that their chief was
leaving they immediately followed, making a
stream of cars, of all makes, ranging from the
old ex-cart up to the Twin Liberty. After a
chase of about fifty miles the pursuers came up-
on old Koolumoff. sitting under the shade of a
road roller, smoking his old El Ropa. As soon as
the tribe had collected around their leader he
ordered that his wigwam be set in the shade of
the blackberry patch on the left of the road,
and that his people encamp themselves around
them.

In less than three days everything was straight-
ened out and all the tribe was living peaceably.
Upon inquiry Chief Koolumoff was informed that
the national treasury was totally defunct. When
he learned this, the chief got his set of jimmies
and his bag of dynamite and set out for the great
metropolis, otherwise known as Sedberry’s Cross-
ing. Going to the City Bank and Farmer's Loan
and Trust Company, Koolumoff’ made a haul
which took three red-men to transport to the
waiting wheelbarrow.

Arriving back at camp unharmed, the chief pro-
claimed a day to set aside in Thanksgiving. The
day was to be divided into two parts, the first
half of the day to spent in thanksgiving, and the
last half to be spent in giving thanks.

THINGS THAT DAVIDSON STUDENTS
SHOULD BE THANKFUL FOR

Cuts that are most graciously donated by the
professors.

Boardinghouse steak. =.

Empty post office boxes.

Holidays, such as Thanksgiving.

Dad, the check writer.

Boxes of eats from home.

Bull sessions.

Things They Are Ungrateful For

Cuts not donated by the professors.

Boardinghouse steak.

Empty post office boxes.

Only one holiday at Thanksgiving.

That check that did not come.

Boxes of eats without fried chicken.

Bull sessions in our rooms.

If you are riding three or four crips and are
having it pretty easy, just be thankful that you
are not taking Greek Two, Chemistry Three C,
Mathematics Two, Philosophy Six, Physiology
and Hygiene Four.

G. McM., Jr.

in the men who are fighting for Davidson’s
honor, and whatever the outcome of today’s

“game, we will stiff back them to the limit.

The curtain is falling on Davidson’s 1924
football schedule, but the curtain has just
risen on the biggest success®in Davidson’s
athletic history. May the curtain never fall.
