6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

aun a

Statistics on Location

of Fraternity

Chapters in Ranking Colleges Given

Doctor Lingle Gives Facts on Loca-
tion of Chapters of Fraternities
Represented Here

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, professor of Mod-
ern Languages, has taken great interest in
the development of fraternity life at Da-
vidson. It is partly through his influence
and work that the faculty has begun to take
action on the fraternity house proposition.
The following article that he has written
gives, in a concise form, the facts about the
placement of chapters by various fraternities
represented here:

Among the questions of interest that may
be asked regarding a national fraternity is
the following: In what kind of institutions
are its several chapters located? Each fra-
ternity is presumably interested in having
its chapters established in institutions that
rank high scholastically. Among the “stand-
ardizing agencies” most widely recognized,
that pass upon the scholastic standing of
colleges, we can do no better than to select
the Association of American Universities,
and the United Chapters of Phi Geta Kappa,
note the institutions included in each list,
and see to what extent each national fratern-
ity is represented by chapters at colleges on
one of these lists.

The membership of the Association of
American Universities is composed of 25
leading universities of the United States,
while eight more universities seem eligible
to*membership. Add to this number 15 high
grade schools of technology and agriculture
(none in the South), which rank high
scholastically, and 119 colleges, making a
total of 167 institutions whose graduates are
admitted unconditionally to graduate work
in all the universities, and to graduate pro-
fessional schools. Schools of technology
and agriculture are to a large extent trade
and vocational schools, serving a most valu-
able purpose, but seldom ranking high from
the scholastic standpoint. Hence they are
not numerous in this list. Among the 167
institutions just referred to are 20 exclusive-
ly for-women. The list of 167 colleges and
universities, known as the “Approved List,”
is the one that is used at Oxford University
by the authorities in dealing with Rhodes
Scholars from the United States. Those
scholars who are graduates of institutions on

the approved list are admitted to certuin
advanced standing, examinations, and piivi-
leges that are denied to our Rhodes ‘Schol-
ars who are not graduates of colleges on
the approved list. For these and other rea-

large percentage of the chapters of a mi-
tional fraternity should be located in col-
leges on the approved list.

A careful study shows the following facts
regarding national fraternities having (or

Sigma Alpha Epsilon has a total of 94

on the approved list.

Kappa Sigma has a total of 92 chapters,
of which 66 (72%) are in colleges on the
approved list.

Beta Theta Pi has 83 chapters in the
United States, of which 69 (83%) are in
colleges on the approved list.

Phi Gamma Delta has 65 chapters, with

Pi Kappa Alpha has 60 chapters, with 38
(63%) in colleges on the approved list.

Kappa Alpha has 54 chapters, with 28
(52%) in colleges on the approved list. |

Pi Kappa Phi has 24 chapters, with 13
(54%) in colleges on the approved list.

The United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa |
is the great American scholarship fraternity, |
with chapters located in ‘99 institutions, of |
which six are exclusively for women. The
very purpose of this organization would be
defeated, did it not locate its chapters ex- |
clusivély in institutions that stand highest |
scholastically (exclusively of a few high- |
grade schools of technology, in which Phi |
Beta Kappa yields to a corresponding fra- |
ternity for men of attainments in the;
sciences). An astonishing observation, how- |
ever, is that chapters of Phi Beta Kappa
have been established in four colleges (two
in New York and tow in Pennsylvania) that
are not on the more extensive approved list
mentioned above. It seems very probable
that some one has erred to this extent. Con-
sidering this exclusive list of -Phi Beta
Kappa colleges, we find that of the 94 chap-
ters of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 48 (51%) are
located in Phi Beta Kappa colleges. Of the
92 chapters of Kappa Sigma, 50 (54%) are
in colleges on this list. Beta Theta Pi has

83 chapters (exclusive of Canada)), with

MILLER’S p

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

RESSING CLUB

~~, Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

This progressive age con-
stantly discovers a better
way of doing things --- al-
ways improves --- develops
processes that excel.
Our tailors at Fashior Park,
for instance, have develop-
ed the Turole tailoring
{ treatment---a method of
making “soft” clothing pos-
sessing all the fine lines that
well groomed men demand.

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things

_ EFIRD’S

Turole is pliant---has easy,
comfortable lines ---con-
forms to the wearer’s action
or inaction—is thoroughly
distinguished.

The Turole tailoring treat-
ment is available in a series
of interesting styles devel-
opments---we’re making a
special exhibit of them
now.

DI II III rrr rrr

sons it would seem highly desirable that a!

soon to have) chapters at Davidson College: |

chapters, of which 65 (69%) are in ~olleges |

58 (89%) in colleges on the approved list. |

|60 (71%) in colleges on this list. Phi Gam-|
;ma Delta has 65 chapters, with 48 (74%) in |
; colleges on this list._Pi-Kappa_Alpha_has }
60 chapters, with 30 (50%) in colleges on |
|this list. Kappa Alpha has 54 chapters, with
'20 (37% )in colleges on this list. Pi Kappa |
Phi has 24 chapters, with 12 (50%) in col-|
leges on this list.

With these two lists of colleges before us, |

| or any other grouping of colleges on the basis

of scholastic standing, it is clear that two of
| the fraternities represented at Davidson have
manifested a far more exclusive tendency
than the others, as regards the scholastic
standing of the colleges in which they lo-
cate. Very few of their chapters are ‘lo-
| cated in schools of technology or in colleges |
|that do not stand in the forefront scholasti-
| cally. Three of the fraternities are very |
}numerous in the South, where the number |
of high grade colleges is still relatively
small, but steadily increasing. The alumni |
}of these three are met with frequently in|
all sections of this part of the country. The |
jother two fraternities seem to be great |
|democratic organizations, located in a great |
variety of institutions in all parts of the |

ous in every section of the United States.
After all, the authorities at Davidson Col-
lege are interested primarily in the mental, |
moral, social and physical development and |
leadership of individuals of the local groups, |
and that local group will always command

jthe highest esteem, regardless of national |

affiliation, whose members prove them- |

selves to be leaders on this campus, in the

things for which Davidson College stands.
Jan. 5, 1923. Thos. W. Lingle.

HOBOING FAVORITE SPORT |

(Continued from "page 1)

He got to that place in three days and from
there back in five. One long ride netted him
two hundred miles, but at times his lengthy
underpinning was called on to travel miles
before a ride could be secured. He tells of
interesting and weird adventures on_ his |
solitary trek through the red hills of Geor- |
gia, once sleeping in a church, thinking it’ was |
a school, and of a fitful slumber in a box
car that looked inviting after a hard day’s
ride,

Forrest Franklin and Fred Smith hiked
down to Franklin's home in Lithonia, Ga.,
and made excellent time going and coming.
They left Davidson as soon as possible
Thursday afternoon, December 20th, and
reached Atlanta by late Saturday afternoon.
These two sturdy lads carried rolled blan-
kets purely for the psychological effect, and
had not a bit of trouble in getting rides that
carried them over the distance in a hurry.
One lonesome individual, seeking a compan-
ion, carried them from Anderson, S. C., to
Atlanta, and on the return trip they were
picked up by a traveling salesman and trans-
ported from Stone Mountain, Ga., to Green-
ville. They spent four nights on the road
and lived high all the way.

While at Lithonia, they hiked over to
Stone Mountain and viewed the wonderful
memorial that is now being carved by Gut-
zon Borglum, and which is destined to be-
come the most stupendous sculptural work
ever made by man. It was well worth the
labor expended to walk to the top and see
the colossal mound of granite being cut into
in order to preserve the ideals for which the
Southland fought and bled.

Several less lengthy hikes were made by
other fellows, radiating out from Davidson
to places within a radius of a hundred miles.
All of them are enthusiastic over the hiking
idea which is prevalent in many colleges over
the country and which is both beneficial and
healthful. The men hiking found that most
people are glad to give them rides if they
look presentable and are willing to put
themselves out for them if of a kindly na-
ture. With the constant flow of tourists
passing along the highways, it is not diffi-
cult to get rides that stretch into the hun-
dreds of miles.

CHRISTMAS FOUND MANY
PROFESSORS AT HOME

With only a few exceptions all the
professors enjoyed a quiet and pleasant
vacation in Davidson during the holi-
days.

Prof. A. Currie and Dr. J. W. McCon-
nell spent some time in Jacksonville, N.
C., as guests of Dr. E. L. Cox. Both had
quite a delightful time hunting ducks
and quail and enjoyed some of the large
Neuse river oysters.

Captain George spent the holidays in
Virginia and reports much more en-
joyable weather than Davidson has seen
during the past few days.

Sergeant Ryan visited relatives in
Worcester, Mass. where he had the
pleasure of meeting about 200 members
of the Reserve Corps there.

Dr. C. R. Harding traveled North

three days where he attended a meeting
of the American Philological Associa-
tion. From there he rode over to New
York City for a sight-seeing trip of sev-
eral days.

FIVE DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND
KAPPA ALPHA CONVENTION

The Kappa Alpha Fraternity held its
thirty-second biennial convention at Wash-
ington, D. C., December 27th through the
29th. The New Washington Hotel served
as headquarters for the convention and the

‘regular meetings were held in the Hall of

Nations of this hotel.

Three hundred members of the fraternity
were present, representing the 54 active
chapters and 38 alumni chapters. The meet-
ings occupied much of the time of the dele-

}gates and much important legislation was

passed regarding the future policies of the
fraternity. It was decided to begin work
at once on the campaign to raise half a mil-
lion dollars for the erection of a memorial
building at Richmond,. Va. This building,
when completed, will be unique among the

| country, and whose alumni are very numer- | fraternal shrines of the world.

On the morning of December 28th the
fraternity had a special audience with Pres-
ident Coolidge, and each member had the
privilege of meeting him personally. This
audience was arranged by Col. John Temple
Graves, the noted lecturer. That evening a
dance was given at the Washington Hotel
by the Alpha Nu Chapter of George Wash-
ington University, assisted by neighboring
chapters. The Hall of Nations was beauti-
fully decorated in crimson and gold, the
fraternity colors. Music was furnished by
two splendid orchestras and the occasion was
greatly enjoyed by the visiting brothers.
The Davidson Chapter of the fraternity
was represented by Charlie McCrary, the
official delegate; Dr. Frazer Hood, Pat Mc-
Nair, Warren and Philip Cox.

DAVIDSON QUARTET BILL BE
CARRIED ON DEPUTATION

The Y. M. C. A. deputation team for
the week-end of January 11-13 will visit
Lexington, N. C. The deputation, which
is composed of leaders in different col-
lege activities, consists of the following
men; Albert Hillhouse, chairman, Jim
Hendrix, and Harry Price. The David-
son College quartet will accomapny the
deputation and provide music at the dif-
ferent meetings. It is also likely that
some from the quartet will speak. This
quartet is composed of the following
men: Ted Jones, Watt McCain, George
Dupuy and Liston Elkins.

On Sunday morning the deputation
will visit the various Sunday Schools of
Lexington. Short talks will be made at
each, That afternoon it is proposed to
have a theatre meeting for the entire
town. In the evening the Davidson men
will be with the young pcople’s societies.
Monday morning the final meeting will
be held with the students of Lexington
High School.

The deputation and quarters will make

the trip from Davidson Saturday after-
ffoon in cars sent over from Lexington.
While in Lexington they--willbe the
guests of the leading citizens. The re-
turn trip to Davidson will be made Mon-
day.

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT
DEBONAIR, comfortable,
cases Goth purartnens dal veer
from Ca Garon by ex:

clusive use. The fort exte:
to the price.

DINNER SUIT
(Shawl collar or notch)

$39.50
AM. '? d and sold fos ose ly by
NATLUXENBERG«&Bros.
New address
841 Broadwa: N. W. Cor. 13th St.
Stuyvesant New York City

Our style-memo. book will be sent free, on request

Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

——
_—

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

‘‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see

ELKINS & PRICE

Davidsonian Office
Agents for °

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

—
——

—

No other shaving
cream has it

the valueofthe Williams’ Hinged Cap, we of-
fer thefollowing prizes: istprize$100;2ndprize

each;sixSthprizes,$5 each. Any undergraduate

describing the hinged
Cap that can’t get lost.
Can you give it to us?
Perhapsyou shavewith
Williams’and knowhow
gentle and soothing its
quick-working lather is to
the skin. Perhaps you
9/ haven't begun to use Wil-
liams’ yet. Whichever the
case, we'll pay real money
for your ideas.

$250 in prizes

For the best sentence often words orless on

twothird prizes, $2Seach;two4th prizes,$10

stopping at Princeton University for

sons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of
erases the full amountof the prize willbe awacas

0 each,
1924. Winners will be announced as soon there-
after as possible. Submit any number of slogans
but write on one side of paper »Putt’
address, college and class at top ofeach
dress letters to Co:
Co.,Glastonbury,Conn. mit

Iftwoormoreper-
Contest closes at midnight March 14,

ont. ing name,
sheet. Ad-

mtest Editor, The J. B. Williams

