- months,

THEDAVI

BB

Vol. XI

FOR A BETTER

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DA

AVID

SON

VIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 7, 1924

No. 17

Twelve Thousand Pledges Put Campaign
For Rebuilding Chambers Over the Top |

Lockhart Announces Completion of |
Campaign in Carolinas and |
Georgia

CONTRACT TOBELET |

South Wing of Chambers to be
Rebuilt First—Architect
Makes Plans

The Davidson College campaign for $600, -
000 has been completed, and the contract for
the building of the south wing of the new
Chambers building will soon be given to the
contractors. Mr. Malcolm Lickhart, who
directed the campaign for the college at the |
request of the Committee of Christian Edu- |
cation of the Southern Presbyterian Church, |
has recently given out the results of this cam-
paign which has been conducted in North
Carolina and Georgia during the past 18

The total amount subscribed is $675,000,
including $75,000 which was given by the
General Education Board. The remaining
$600,000 was subscribed approximately as
follows: $110,000 by the people of Georgia ;
100,000 by the citizens of Charlotte and
Mecklenburg county ; $125,000 by the alumni, |
and $265,000 by the people of North Caro- |
lina, of which $25,000 was subscribed by the
faculty and student body of the college.

The number of persons who signed sub-
scriptions to the campaign exceeded 12,000,
This large response to the appeal of the col-
lege authorities is a great tribute to David- |
son College and is evidence of the high re-
gard which the people of the Southern Pres-
byterian Church have for the college and
what it stands for.

The funds collected in the campaign will
be used for two purposes, $200,000 will be
added to the endowment fund and $400,000

(Continued on page 8)

Y.M.C.A. Makes Plans

For Spring Term Work
Life Work Conference to be Held|

February 17-22—Deputations |
Planned |

Parra yg i}
The Life Work and Evangelistic Cam- |
paign which will begin Sunday, February |
17th, and continue through the 22nd, will be |
conducted this year by Rev. Robert (“Bob”)
King, an old Davidson man, who is now
Synodical Evangelist for the Synod of Geor-
gia. Plans are being made to have the Co-
lumbia Quartet.

Mr. James Somerville, who has just re-
turned from two years in Russia, will speak
about the conditions of European students,
at the Y. M. C. A. meeting next Sunday.
Mr. Somerville is representing the World's
Student Federation.

|

Some idea of the condition of the stu-
dents in Russia can be gained from the fol-
lowing extract from a letter: “Last winter
Professors, as well as students in Russia,
sold or bartered every saleable thing they
Possessed for food, clothing, lodging or fire- |
wood. There are hundreds of thousands of |
students who are bearing the discomforts of
insufficient food, clothing that is a mass of |
rags, and unspeakable living conditions in
order that they may go on with their edu- |
cation. When one student was asked, ‘Why |

Mirth Menu Will

Be Served Girls
Junior Speaking

Nevt stop is Junior Speaking! With
exams past, all eyes now turn forward: to
the next event of the year, really, to the
event of the year. The committee, backed
by the whole Junior class and every student
who has ever experienced or heard of the
joys of Junior Week, has just two more
months to develop and put through the plans
that have been outlined for the occasion,
But the work is not for the committe only.
The success of Speaking depends largely
upon the presence of girls, and more females.
So, “in writing, mention Junior Speaking.”
If the girls are here, the Junior class guar-
antees that they will be entertained; that
everybody will be happy and have the best
time of their lives. Agreed!

Of course there will be some athletic num-
hers on the program. There will be one,
maybe two, between the

baseball games

Fresh and one of the best college freshman |

or prep school nines in the state. The ath-
letic association is making plans to hold an
inter-class. track meet, which will be the
first in the last four years. This will renew
what used to be one of the brilliant events of
the athletic year, The Junior committee is
co-operating with the track authorities to
make this event a whang!

If your girl likes entertainment, let her
look over this menu, The Dramatic Club is
responsible for one night’s amusement, and
the Dramatic Club is not in the habit of
failing. It will be
there in force. The Glee Club, now famous
by its recent successes, has bid for the spot-
light for one evening. "Nough said. As for
Junior Orations, dn especial effort is being
made this year for quality, rather than quan-
tity of speakers. The best orators will be
picked regardless of their literary society
affiliations, and only the four best will be
heard. They will be worth hearing.

Now on Saturday night of the week will
take place the event of events. The Junior
class will then put on their feature spec-
tacle: one that will rouse old Nero from his
mausoleum, and’ make P. T, Barnum weep
for joy. Seats will be reserved for the first
few thousand. Besides these things the

(Continued on page 7)

Does she like music ?

WOODROW WILSON ’
: Davidson’s Most Distinguished Son

‘
|

ee
Woodrow Wilson Always

| Friendly ’ to Davidson

son Half Century Ago

| ROOMED IN CHAMBERS

| joe eee

| Visited Alma Mater for Last Time
in 1916

| Woodrow Wilson, whose death February
3rd saddened the entire world, began his col
{lege eer at Davidson, in the fall of 1873,
lA half-century ago, Thomas Wilson, as he
was then known, went about
duties, entering into every activity of college
life.

Karly in October he joined the Eumenean
Literary Society and spoke for the first time
on the negative side of the debate, Resolved,
That republicanism is a better form of povy-
ernment than a limited monarehy. During
the remainder of the year Wilson took an
active part in the work of the society, ap-
pearing on the program as afMorator and de-
bater, and also to read compositions.

While at Davidson, Woodrow Wilson
roomed on the first floor of the old Cham-
bers building. Like the other students, he
had his own woodpile, where he chopped and
split his fuel for the winter months; he
pumped his own water and cleaned his room.

The tradition has grown up that he was
suspended from college. This is due to the

(Continued on page 5)

his college

|

| Former President, Student at David- |

Queen’s Prexy Is
| Vesper Speaker
| On Sunday Night

, Dr. W. TL Frazer, President
| College, was the speaker at the regular ves-
| per service of the Y. M,C. A. Sunday, Feb-
truary 3rd. Mr. Williams, General Seeretary
of the “Y," introduced Doetor Frazer as a
man well known at Davidson and one always
heartily weleomed both for those he repre-
sents and for the message he brings. His
|Message this time was no exception to the
‘high nature of those he accustomed to
j bring. aes

of Queens

1s

He dealt with the call of higher things,
the call of the world and of humanity, which
}comes to every man and which must be cor-
| reetly answered and heeded if that life is
{to count to the fullest. Using the illustra-
{tion from Davd's life, when he wished for
ithe water from the well at) Bethlehem, he
j Showed how this was the selfish call to the
It was the
heeded his

Hlower side of a man's nature.

selfish desire. And his men

“wishes and brought him the water, but David

rose to his full height of manhood when he
| refused to drink the water, for it was “the
{blood of their lives,” but instead poured: it
jout as an offering before his God.
So it was that David reached
took hold of those things which satisfy the
'soul-nature, that eternal part of a man, What
he had he used for the larger self,
the better, To each of us come both calls.
Which will Which will
heed?) “Use these if you wish yourself min-
istered to: use these others if you wish to
minister to God and to the world in need
and to the self you are going to become,
Both ways are insistent and only the strong
man, the man trusting in the power and
might, of God himself can be sure of fol-
lowing that which is right.”

out and

i le che se

we choose ? we

But ever to those who are trusting and
following there can be heard the still small
voice, “the overtone of God,” calling every
one from the narrow to the broad, from the
little to the large, from the selfish to the
sincere way which brings life-eternal. And
blessed are those who heed.

Victor Brown led the singing and Mr.
Williams introduced the speaker of the
evening.

Davidson College

Church Scene

of Memorial

Service In Honor of World’s Greatest Citizen

|Members of College Faculty Pay Tribute to Wilson as Acthor
Repudiated, Persecuted, Wilson Followed H

The Sunday night service at the Presby-

Wilson,
just before noon that morning.

who died
Different
speakers were called upon to give short talks
upon different phases of the life of Mr. Wil-
son, though each one was to give just that
phasé of the life which appealed most strong-
ly to him,

ex-President Woodrow

Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a brief survey

| Prof. A. Currie pictured Woodrow Wilsoa

man who pointed out to the world the way
it had always wished to go in. Then he was
|the torch-bearer who blazed new trails and

climbed high pinnacles to give to mankind a}
|glimpse of a life beyond the stars which it |

|might hope some day to attain.
Dr. J. W. MacConnell spoke of Wilsca as
|the commander-in-chief of the U. S. Army.

, Executive and Statesman—Misunderstood,
is Convictions to the End

}nature of the man. He also pointed ont the

lterian Church was a service in memory of 4s the organizer of the world’s thought, the | human side which brought so much criticism

upon him. Though his faults were evident
and his shortcomings many, he was a man
to be remembered in spite of them and an
American worthy of going down in histery
as a statesman who spent his life in 1 strug-
| gle after better things.

| President W. J. Martin, of Davidso. Col-
| lege, closed the service with a short sketch

don’t you drop it all and work with your |
hands, which will at least bring you enough | of the life of this great American who ws
to eat?’ he replied, ‘I would rather dic of | born in Staunton, Va., in 1856, the son of a
starvation within sight of the university than | Presbyterian minister, Later he went to
give up my hope of an education.’” | Davidson College for a part of one term,

Mr. Somerville will be able to give in-|then to Princeton, University of Virginia,
tensely interesting facts from first-hand | and Johns Hopkins. He distinguished him-
knowledge. self as President of Princeton, Governor of

The leaders of the “Y’ ’have been busy| New Jersey and as twice President of the
‘since:the holidays arranging plans fer depu-| United States. Finally, as a champion’ of
tation work this spring. Many churches are| the world organized for peace, he received
eager to. secure these deputations composed | his service stripes and in that struggle he

(Continued on page 7) gave up his life.

|It was as a man who could sce far beyond | of some of the characteristics uf Woodrow
the ordinary man’s vision and could direct a| Wilson. He was a man whom we shall re-
nation with a clever insight into its nature | member as one of fight and determination,
and mental bearing toward the war that Wil-| He was a man of faith striving to put
son is to be especially remembered. | Christianity into the actual life of the politi-

The Rev. Mr. Foster, of the Methodist/}cal world. Dr. Martin spoke of Mr. Wil-
Church, spoke of Woodrow Wilson as the!son’s trip to Davidson College and of his
man of ideals, the man of vision, the man| affection toward the institution. In’ the
of dreams whom the world aceded. Mr.j|heart of every Davidson man there should

Wilson: believed in his “dream and fought
courageously to make them real and to him
all honor is due for that fight

Dr. C. R. Harding told of the religious

be admiration and respect for this Great
American and, more sincere strivings after
such a life as he lived in his own state, in
his nation and before the whole world.

Wildcat Quint Splits Pre-Exam Season;
Opens Month With Brace of Victories

Tar Heel Quint Wins Decision Over
Wildcats on Queen City Floor

BOGGS GUARDS WELL

Statesville, Belmont, and Guilford
Fall Before Coach Younger’s
Five
Splitting a brace of games just before
exams began, winning from the Statesville
Athletic Association and bowing to Carolina,
the Wildeat quint opened up in their first
two games after the exams, and defeated the
Belmont American Legion and Guilford Col-

lege.

Statesville Game

The Davidson Wildeats, with
spirit thoroughly aroused by theedefeat of
three nights previous, ran up to Statesville on
January 17th) and
from the Athletic Association team of that
city. The score was 36 to 14, leaving no
doubt as to the superiority of the Red and
Black quintet.

fighting

brought home a_ sealp

From the start there was no doubt in the
minds of spectators as to what the outcome
would be, Coach Monk's cohorts, by smooth
teamwork and accurate goal shooting, got
away to an carly lead, cand the first balf
ended with Davidson 10 points ahead.

In the second frame it) was’ easy going.
The Wildeats had hit their stride, and the
score went up by leaps and bounds. — States-
ville’ scored 4 points in this period, while
Davidson rolled up 16 more.

Staley led the scoring for Davidson, loop-
ing the basket for 5 field goals, while Red
Laird ran a close second with 3 field goals
and 3 fouls, a total’of 9 counters. “Sook”
Boges played airtight ball at guard, and got
down, the floor for 3 perfect shots, tying
Laird’s score by the addition of 3 free goals.

(Continued on page 3)

Billy Sunday Will Speak
Before Student Audience

Noted Evangelist to Preach in Pres-
byteri Church Friday

~

Prepartions for tHe coming of Billy Sun-
day, world famous evangelist, to Davidson
on Friday morning, are complete, and col-
lege authorities, who invited Mr. Sunday to
speak in Davidson, are confident that great
benefits will be reaped from his address to
the students and townspeople.

The widely known evangelist is about to
complete a six weeks’ revival in Charlotte,
and he readily accepted the invitation to
speak to the students of Davidson College.
During the several weeks that Mr. Sunday
has been preaching in @haFlotte he has at-
tracted record-breaking “treads from all
sections of the state. During the early part
of his revival services, many students regu-
larly attended his meetings; but the incon-
venience and lack of transportation to Char-
lotte has made it practically impossible for
Davidson men to hear him recently.

Mr. Sunday will speak in the Davidson
Presbyterian Church, and, since his visit is
primarily in acceptance of the college's invi-
tation, special reservations have been made
for seating the hundreds of students who
will hear him, Only 350 townspeople will be
seated at the meeting, and cards for admis-
sion will be distributed at Henderson's Jew-
elry Store on Friday morning.

The exact text of Mr. Sunday’s address to
the students has not been announced, but his
sermon is sure to be one full of fire and in-
terest. Regular class work will be dispensed
with during the meeting, and all students will
be expected to attend the services. David-
son is especially fortunate in securing Mr.
Sunday to speak, as invitations from various
organizations have .been extended to him

during his stay in Charlotte.
