THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Historical Convention

Attended by Educators

American Historical Convention in
Richmond Attended by
Dr. T. W. Lingle

STELLAR ATTRACTIONS AT
DAVIDSON IN FEW WEEKS

The booking agency for pictures at

Four Classes Busily at

Work on Special Plans

Davidson stated Monday that they had | Seniors Contemplate Novel Gift But
secured another good show for the stu- |

dent patrons. It is a feature production
called “Tongues of Flame,”

and was re- |

Find Big Problems Facing Them

A new year has come again,

R. O. T. C. News

Col.
the

for the Christmas holidays.
but like |spent the holidays at his home in Dick-

Axton, of Washington, D. C., was |
guest of Capt.

Richard Daughtery,
Capt. Weems

| ‘
coming months.

This will certainly put
pep into spectators as well as players
and will help give Davidson the success
in basketball that she had in football.

A notice has been received that Col.
Frank C. Bolles from Washington will
arrive to inspect the Davidson College
military unit on February 4.

The thirty-ninth annual meeting of the|!eased a short while ago. The plot is Pat and Mike, the old resolutions have!son, Tenn. ae peel in a tak actaa 2
American - Historical Association was|taken from the continued story of the not been up and new ones are scarcely eae a” rae pcre 5 Fenty
held in Richmond, December 27 to 31.]same name by Peter.Clarke MacFarlane, | in order as yet. However, the classes Capt. George was at home in Char. Y's!t the unit so :
Delegates attended from leading colleges| which first appeared in successive issues are trying to get into the stride once lottesville, Va. to enjoy the Yuletide —e ee
and universities throughout the United|of Hearst’s International, and has since more, committees being busy with plans holidays. Tilson, captain of the Washington and Lee
States and England. The Jefferson|been published in book form. “Tongues for the ensuing five months. football team last fall and brother of it
Hotel was the headquarters for the con-|of Flame,” starring Thomas Meighan,| The Seniors are looking here and there, ihe “millieaey departiient of Davidian | vidson’s Tex Tilson, was among the tackles

promises an excellent evening’s enter-
tainment,

trying to decide what the college needs
most that will both benefit it and be
within shouting distance of their pock-
Someone has suggested a swimming
pool to hold the constant downpour of
rain, a newly invented storm dispeller ‘ r
2 as I ‘er the best possible service at the bas-

or some more sidewalks. .

i i ‘ ketball games to be played during the

The Juniors, as ever, are busy with en- iy
tertainments. They have given students
much enjoyment as promoters of the

, vention.

Dr T. W. Lingle. professor of French
at Davidson, attended the convention.
While interested primarily in languages,
Dr. Lingle is also a student of history,
having taught that subject in other in-
stitutions,

The convention was presided over by
Charles M. Andrews, of Yale University,
who was elected president of the asso-

mentioned for the all-American football team

College is starting the new year with i ps
emt act Us s by Walter Camp.

two objects in view. First, to get the
unit in shape for inspectors who are to
visit the college in the next few weeks;
second, to get the band in shape to rend-

Two other pictures, not definitely
hooked but practically certain of com-
ing here, are of the same high order.
The first is Zane Grey’s latest novel,
“The Thundering Herd,” which was pub-
lished a short time ago in the Ladies’
Home Journal. It is a tale of the hunt

ets, The wrestling squad has the most ambitious

schedule of the school, meeting North Caro-
lina State, Virginia Tech, Carolina and the
Navy, besides several “Y" matches.

ciation during the course of the meet-
ing. Papers were read by the delegates,
relating to all fields of history and his-
torical research.

During his stay in Richmond Dr.
Lingle was the guest of many friends in
that, city, and also attended some of the
sessions of the National Convention of
the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

Ministerial Candidates
Busy During Holidays
Ministerial Band Does Fine Work in

Churches During Christmas
Holidays

The Christmas holidays did not stop the
activities of the Ministerial Band as would
be supposed, but only served to stimulate
them. A few weeks before Christmas let-
ters were sent to the churches in the boys’
home towns with the request that the mem-
bers of the band be allowed to speak in at
least one of the church meetings during their
stay.

At the meeting last Sunday evening each
boy reported where he had spoken and how
many times. All except two had spoken at
least once and some as many as four times.
Hayden Hollingseworth spoke in one of At-
lanta’s leading churches before a large au-
dience. Don Stewart spent the holidays at
Statesville and took complete charge of the
young people’s work there. He not only did
this during the holidays, but has done so
regularly during the fall. Viernes spent the
holidays at Wilmington and spoke at a young
people’s meeting. He did it so well that the
pastor asked him to make the same talk be-
fore the congregation. Jim Carr spoke in
his home church three times. A neighboring
pastor asked him to make a talk in his
church, which he did. Six boys at Parkton,
N. C,,\took entire charge of a night service.
The band was well pleased with the report
as given.

SODA =:

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Ine.

201 North Tryon St.

for buffalo in the days when great herds
still roamed the prairies, of the fine, clean
love of a rough plainsman for a beau-
tiful girl. A thrilling train of incidents—
a buffalo hunt , an Indian’ fight, an en-
counter with robbers, the girl’s abduction
—culminated in—but see Jack Holt and
Lois Wilson yourself,

The other picture which the writer has
not seen is a starring vehicle for Viola
Dana called “Along Came Ruth.” Ad-
vance press notices and posters however,
seem to indicate that this is one of the
greatest of Viola’s great creations.

The agency is being somewhat restrict-
ed in its efforts to book pictures very
far in advance due to the fact that-it is

‘necessary for each production to pass a

board of review composed of various
ladies of the town. But they are bend-
ing every effort towards giving David-
son the very best of the new pictures,
and in the opinion of the majority they
have been very successful.

FIRST OF MAY TO SEE NEW
CHAMBERS COMPLETED
(Continued from page 1)
building of the other

Chambers this fall.

two wings of New

When finished this building is to contain a
north and a south wing, cach comprised of
class rooms and laboratories, and a central
part made up of the auditorium,
hall, and banquet room, Accommodations
for 500 or 600 persons will be available in
this dining hall and the large auditorium will
seat from 1,500 to 1,800 in an audience.
of the second and third floors in this wing
will be taken up by the auditorium orchestra
and balcony.

Containing all of the class rooms, offices,

and a spacious auditorium this three-storied |

modern building will centralize the work of
the college, according to Doctor Martin. He

expects it on completion to be one of the
finest buildings of its kind in the South.

CIGARS

{pe

I

NONE TOO SMALL

We Want Ycur Account Regardless of Its Size

NONE TOO LARGE

reception |

All|

Lyceum courses, the last of which will
come next month, .Soon after that will
be staged Junior Speaking with plenty

of “fire’ to make things frolicsome.
Plans are rapidly being worked out for
“the best Junior Speaking that David-
son ever had.” “Joyous Spirits for

Junior Speaking” is their motto.

A spring long to be remembered, is the
plan of the Sophomore class. The an-
nual banquet in the old stamping ground,
Charlotte, comes first. The exact date
has not been set but it will not be very

long off since examination’ will whet
their appetites to an unbearable keen-
ness. As to Soph day, no- plans have

made but theamatter is under considera-
tion,

The Freshmen have not formulated any
plans, not having organized. When that
important matter is completed, they will
probably make definite plans for the re-
mainder of the year. The way will soon
be opened for them to show their mettle.

DR. HOOD IMPRESSES
(Continued from page 1)

they who do not work shall not cat, was
cited,

which takes the
an independent living, and more than enough
to live on, is represented in intellectual sup-
port—gaining not enough intellectual knowl
edge to stay in college, but more than enough.
receive from the earth.

This corresponds to the food. the tree must

That in college place of

The tree also needs food from the air; so
the man needs to take in the intellectual at-
mosphere, The man who is lacking in the
intellectual side of his life is lacking in life.
| Religion and the church of today: call for
| great intellectual leadership. This leadership
, will come through hard thinking.

The speaker spoke of the statement made

by college men that their science cannot be!

made to correspond with their religious be-
liefs as an exaggerated assumption. The
| person who makes such an assumption knows
very little of cither subject.

= ‘ 3 ned|
Then something must come into the life

from the outside. As the sun is to the tree,
so God is to man. “Man cannot live by
bread alone, but by every word that. proceed-
eth out of the mouth of ‘God.” We must
have the moisture from the soil, the carbon
| dioxide from the air, but above all we must
have the sunlight to play upon them. Unless
we can walk with Him, and talk with Him,
we are not living life at its best. Life is not
jits best until the eternal is real in our lives.

“Religion has been defined as such a per-
| ception of God that there is a change in the

life and character,” and the speaker empha-

| sized the fact that a perception of God comes |
through one’s own knowledge of Him—
knowledge gained for oneself.

The sunlight gets into the tree through a
medium which scientists call ether. God gets
|into the life of man through Jesus Christ
the medium through which the world sees
| God.

| “And he shall be like a tree planted by

|the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his

fruit in his season; his leaf aso shall not
| wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall pros- |
per.”

In conclusion the speaker spoke of the
God-centered life, comparing it to great

SHOWING 103 WEST
Monday, January 12th

WARREN'S

of Philadelphia

Tailors for College Men

Special Top Coats $25.00 Made To Order Suits $35.00

JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.

EAT AT
THE ASTOR LUNCH

SERVICE

cia

THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase youa $250.00 personal
effects policy which protects you against fire and

theft on all of your wearing apparel,

Racquet,

Tennis

Golf Clubs and all other personal

property anywhere other than having it stored
In your own home. ;

| Write or see

Independence Trust Company

McAlister Carson, Manager

Insurance Department

Charlotte, N. C.

Phone 3940

BELK BROS.

CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For

Young Men’s College Suits

Special Values Being Offered in
Wide Bottom Pants

In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

symphony orchestra which, when all centered ,
jin the life of the director gave forth beau-
| tiful music. So will our lives when they are |
centered in the great Leader.

A. M. Martin presided,
speaker and reading the scripture.

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

introducing the |
Roland |

Parker led the singing. Wallace Purdy. was | Th N S ] B ll Bott Pa ts
R. A. DUNN, President I. W. ST id ffi ti
, Cw. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J.B. See a pianist, and John McRae rendered a violin | e ew e e om nh
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier solo, “In the Garden.” Harry Prite. and} as = I my oo ad
| Hayden Hollingsworth led in prayer during’ a © in fight; Sediam and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
“ the opening éxercises. Dr. Hood offered a :

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00 prayer at the conclusion of his address, and |
the Lord’s Prayer was repeated in concert in

: - |

closing.

Trade With Us and Save Money

