4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College ce

Entered at the Post Office of D: vidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Cla

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH...--------.--- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H.

L. D. -Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. J Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. ee --Athletic Editor
R. B. Associate Editor
A. Y. Associate Editor
A. H. -Associate Editor
GARN Humorous Editor

----Alumni Editor
Soae Exchange Editor

1] =e
|| AZ
3
@

ix
H

Business Staff

H., D, BURKE Business M

W. H. LYNCH —._-_-..---.-----Assistant Rusiness Manager
V. S. BROYLES ____- _Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER. -----.-Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON Supscription Manager
E. L. DOUGLASS. -Assistant

JULIAN LAKE
M. T

(oats epartment
» CRAWFORD_. ¢

ssistant

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. nF F, HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES. Vice-Pres. . MARTIN

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. McILWAINE

W. H. ALLISON J. P. McKNIGHT

H. M. AUSTIN J. E. MOORE

F. K. BELL FE. K. REGEN

Cc. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY

D, M. CALHOUN J. B. THOMPSON

W. T. COVINGTON J. B. WEBB

W. T. 1S J. G. WHARTON

E. L. DOUGLASS RB. WILSON 5
F, T. FRANKLIN C. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL
WORLD AFFAIRS

III recent vote onthe subject of the
World Court has caused the thought

|

Managing Editor |

of this campus to be broadened. By |

some,of the intelligent talk about the ad-
visibility or inadvisability of the United
States entering this Court, we gather that
campus thought is not entirely confined to
football, fraternities, shows and studies.

This is encouraging. When any organi-
zation of civilized beings confine their
thoughts within the bounds of their own
daily experiences and mode of living, then
their mental conceptions are weakened,
their ideas are stagnant. A physical languor
and moral turpitude often follow mental
laziness.

Too often the discussions of groups begin
nowhere and end up at the same place. . In
class-rooms there is the tendency to dally
with large, questions that require a little
original research, and to substitute ready-
made formulas and expositions of others.
It is always easier to follow along in the
beaten path that others have trod down be-
fore us. The test of one’s ambition is often
whether or not he is willing to go over and
beyond the question, to throw new light on
it by observations of his, own.

Perhaps five hundred words would ade-
quately provide for most of the conversa-
tions that students engage in. Sports, mag-
azines, girls, dates, coaches, professors—all
of them come in for a share of talk. Most
of it is small talk, Anything that makes for
a betterment of this is worthy of laudation.

The plunge into the world of business af-
ter graduation often makes the college grad-
uate gasp withthe immensity of it all. He
looks back upon his sojourn in college as a

pleasant oasis amidst a desert of idleness.,!

or of work. He wonders why he did not
make some attempt to fathom the deep un-
dercurrents of thought that makes business
and commerce, religion and science possible,
His college life seems tame when he real-
izes that his is merely a smattering of an
education, a broad generalization of a host
of facts more or less assimilated.

Thus, we maintain that any movement
that tends to make one think along broader
lines is in itself commendable. Debates in
literary societies, discussions in the Inter-
national Relations Club, and Y. M. C. A.
group discussions all have their merit in
making the student mind jump the track of
the ordinary, humdrum line of thought omu
something broader.

We shall find it soon enough when we leave
college, because things that interest the
world at large are those that bring most to
bear upon small matters with which we
might have to deal. It is hard to realize the
extent to which affairs that concern the
principalities of Europe, the coal miners of
Great Britain, the fruit growers of the

western coast, or the small town merchant
in the South, concern every one of us. The
sooner we are able to realize that we have
our own little part to play in the drama that
is played all around us, the better citizens
we will be.

D
STATISTICS

The little pamphlet gotten out by the
college just recently is a vest-pocket novel
itself. It is worthy of anyone’s time who
cares to read the most interesting statistics
regarding the growth and present standing
of the college and the student body.

By a comparison of the figures of those
ten years ago, we find that the enrollment
has about doubled. Twenty-one states and
two foreign countries are represented.
Eleven churches are included in the mem-
bership of the student body. And a striking
point is, that of the whole enrollment, but
twelve men, or less than two per cent of
the student body are not menybers of any
church, That should be encouraging to any
church school.

The Sophomore and Freshman classes
have by far the larger bulk of the enroll-
ment. The present Junior class is the small-
est of a number of years, The Senior class
contains a larger membership than of any
previous graduating class. Four co-eds this
year, <A little falling off in this important
department.

Those who decry the lack of interest and
appreciation in the classical courses should
take heart at the sight of the figures that
tell of the 309 students that have elected to
take the liberal arts course.

It is with something of disappointment
that we look at the averages of the fra-
ternities and of the other groups indicated.
The figures show that all the fraternities
except one made a considerably less aver-
age in scholarship than the student body as
a whole, The average ofthe football, bas-
ketball and baseball squads were not much
helow the student body-average.,

But the crux of the whole situation lies in
the table showing the professions and lines
of service that the students intend to enter
in after life. Business, the ministry, and
medicine are the most popular branches of
service as indicated by the list. Over a
hundred men have chosen other lines and
two hundred and thirty-six men have not
yet decided what they want to do, There
is a problem. Z

When will they decide? Will it be after
sad experience has shown them that every
one must fill some place, no matter how
small? Are their ambitions, their hopes and
fears as great as those who know today
what the future will hold for them?

Someone has said that the college stu-
dent does not look forward to any work less
than that of a white collar job—a position
where he may retain his tailored appearance
and his manicure. He never thinks of the
more menial service, or working in the mire,
sweaty and tired. Of serving years in some
lowly task that promises little at the end.

If those that are undecided are thinking of
future service, what is it? Have they any
intelligent plan or are they merely drifting
along withthe crowd. Those statistics are
worth pondering over.

Figures don’t lie.

Open Forum

MORE TRUTH THAN BULL .

The student who does not like to indulge in bull
sessions at times, and who is not glad to have his
friends drop in for such sessions, is at least un-
usual if there is nothing wrong with his make-
up. Bull sessions are fine things—they are a real
part of college life, and the contacts. formed in
them are often helpful.

But, as for all other things that are of no harm
in themselves,.there is a time to bull and a time to
stop bulling. One of those times to stop bulling
is when we are in a friend’s room and we see that
he is trying to study.

There are few, if any, who wish to offend a
friend by absolutely ignoring his presence or by
giving him a cold shoulder when he comes into
their room. Most of us would get shot on our
tickets’the next day or stay up until two o’clock
studying to avoid such. And there are doubtless
some who do this very thing.

It is just a case of thoughtlessness in most
cases—if we have a light day tomorrow and no
outside work to do, we go to the room of friends,
never realizing that the following day may be
Siety hard way and they may be over their heads
in back work, parallel, or outside work.

Fellows, we are all forgetful of the other fel-
low at times—even our best friends are sometimes
the objects of our forgetfulness. Put ourselves
in the place of the one who wants to work, and
when he reminds us that he has two reviews and
four tickets to get for the next day cut out the bull
and let him get to work.

—HARD HEARTED.

With Other Colleges |

GRANGE’S PROFESSIONALISM

Harold “Red” Grange has the sporting world
very much upset by his action in going into pro-
fessional football. He has had much
criticism because he simply takes an advantage
of a rare opportunityto make a fortune by min-
imum ‘effort and at the same time with a great
amount of pleasure. The chief criticism comes
from the standpoint that collegiate football will
suffer a great harm through his personal action.
There are also those who would criticise him very
much more if he turned down so easy a method of
making his future assured and comfortable. It is
about an even toss.

One cannot put very much blame on him for the
desire to make his money as easily as possible,
and by the development ofthe talent he has. On
the other hand, while he may give profession foot-
ball quite an impetus and advance it further by
his participation than it might otherwise be able
to go in several years’ time, the obvious fact re-
mains that professionalism is a mere matter of
time in football, whether or no Grange had de-
cided differently. The game is too attractive and
too easy to make money out of not to fall a victim
sooner or later. As a result, there are predictions
that football will soon be on a par with baseball.
Coaches of the big teams are frankly worrying over
the situation, yet they see no effective means of
combating the evil

While not putting any particular blame on
Grange for his actions, one cannot help but feel
gratified that some other, perhaps less well-known
players, have turned down rather flattering offers.
Southern ranks were not depleted to any great
extent, a fact which perhaps signifies that the
South will not have this problem of professional-
ism to face for some years yet. It may be lack
of progress; if so, then we may well feel proud of
our backwardness,

—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Minor Chords

MARY
In the cold dark winter evenings
As the dusk begins to fall,
And the shades of night start creeping
Bringing darkness over all

Silence brings in starry teilight
As my thoughts begin to stray
Backward, ever straying backward

To a home that's far away.

As I gaze into the firelight
Fancy paints a gorgeous scene
Of my kings, of knights and ladies,
But I behold a single queen.

Maybe she is sitting, thinking,
In the firelight’s golden glow;
Thinking, or perhaps she’s dreaming—
Dreaming dreams of long ago.

Whene’er I’m feeling sad and weary,
And my thoughts bring me dismay,
I let my thoughts drift back to Mary—
At once my cares all fly away.
—G. McM., Jr.

DISAPPOINTMENT
I wanted to hold her hand,
She gave me her mitten instead;
T argued—she queenly, and ever serenely
Refused to heeed my command:
To force I resorted-—she only retorted,
“No! No! Don’t you dare pull my hair!
I would have persisted, but teacher insisted—
When she was a rosy,
A cute little posy
And I was a six year old.

—F, T. F.

A POEM
T hope I shall die as the maples do,
In robes of red and bronse and golden hue.

When I die may it be in the autumn of life

With yearning for the other world; when there is no
knife :

Of hopeless, aged winter in my soul.

With spring comes rebirth, and I shall be whole.

“It is not death to sleep the winter through.

I hope I shall die as the maples do.
—B. F. M.

Miss Ima Crook, formerly chief
of the Emporium Hotel absconded with twenty
thousand berzies. the other.day. A full descrip-
tion of her been sent to the chief of police and to
the sheriff at Miami.

cigar lighter

Silas J. Flinger, the wizard inventor of Goulash,
Iowa, has announced his latest invention. He has
crossed the radio bug with the honey bee, and
now, instead of having a bee in his bonnet, he has"
a ready-made radio set up there to broadcast the
latest buzz from Bugdom.

adverse —

TONIGHT

By Art Fizzbrain

The All-American selections are cooling in the
ashes now. Not once did they make mention of
F. Ball, High Point man, of North Carolina;
Harry Knecke, leading cutter of the New York
Barber’s College; Imzo Happie, best passer of the
International Correspondence Schools who got
fifteen letters ‘there last year; nor of J. Henry
Beefem, chief rubber atthe Mt. Mourne Nurses’
School.

In considering such choices from a _ possible
field that includes the whole country, we would
like to put in as our favorite, the Stringem Sport-
ing Goods Co. They have made the best tackles
in the entire country and their punts are superb.
Their passes are good anywhere and they are
death on kicking.

This Florida craze seems to last. But when all
the soft soap is taken away and the bubble bursts,
there will be more distracted mourners coming
home via the tin can route than leave one of Jack
Dempsey’s pink teas which he calls prize fights.
Florida, the land of realtors, alligators, subdi-
visions, grape-fruit, oranges and realtors.

This country should take steps to protect itself
from foreign invasion by air. From good au-
thority, this writer has discovered that spies in
the pay of a foreign commonwealth have been
dropping down literature on certain college cam-
puses.

This freely-disposed propaganda is said to be
insidious advertisements for a dancing academy
located up North somewhere. We still believe in
the integrity of the Great American Boy, how-
ever,

Will Rogers is saidto be the only man in the
world who can throw, shoot, rope and smoke the
bull, If he would make a peaceful visit to some
of these collegiate hash foundries, he could be
taught to eat it also, in the same peaceful man-
ner.

“Have you a little flivver in. your home?” says.
Henry Ford. “At least four out of every five
have them. Eventually, why, not now?” This
timely and wise gesture has caused the few thou-
sand left who do not have this helpful household
necessity to consider buying one forthe kiddies if
nothing else.

These charming little infernal mechanisms of
Henry Ford have become’a good deal quieter in
the last few years. It is thought that this result
has been brought about by the removing of the
brass band from the radiator, also by the gift of

the numerous rattles to an orphanage.

Only fourteen more days to do your Christmas
shopping. Perhaps one of the most humorous
ironies in life is to see daughter take father to
the store to select his own Christmas present and
to see him when he gets the bill for the same. Do
your Christmas shopping now!

Mistletoe is getting more plentiful every year
says Otto Wood, the holly bandit. No wonder.
The young men of this ptesent generation have
no more need or use for mistletoe than they have
for a chaperone. Desire under the ellums—but
mistletoe grows only on oak trees.

That was indeed a wise move that the author-
ities at Bryn Mawr made. When they told the
girls that they could smoke, it was just about like
telling a Georgian that he could own a houn’ dog
and cuss, or tell the sun that it could rise every
morning. The only thing needed to set this off
is to tell the dear little girls that they can think of
their sweethearts every afternoon between the
hours of four and five.

Before long airplans will be buzzing around in
the air like flies do now. Everyone will have one,
every girl her parachute, and they say that one
manufacturer will do like Ford has threatened to
do, paint his products yellow so he can sell them
in bunches like bananas. :

The sea-going bootlegger is different from the
track star with a twisted knee. One is a rum
runner and the other is bum runner. In this age
of jazz, buttermilk and flappers, the bootlegger
has to know his stuff to sell it. One bootlegger
who didn’t know his stuff drank from the wrong
bottle and has been staggering around like a fall-
ing leaf for several months.
