THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1925

HUNGRY ??

Home Cooked. Those tasty

eats and delicious Punch

Columbia Theological
Seminary

for feeds and _parties cotaiabia: a
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s A .
TEA es ce First Year Eleven SPORTOGRAPHS Seniors Seem Leaders agai sataeubeeliod

By Ernest Milton Centennial in Atlanta
*

Rounding Into Shape

As Basketball Begins

Junior Class, Winner of Title Last
Year—Loses More Good Men—

Sophs Strong

Columbia Seminary offers:
Scholarly Instruction
Practical Training
Spiritual Environment
Helpful Contacts
Missionary Zeal :
Evangelistic Fervor
Sympathetic Co-operation
Wholesome Food
Comfortable Dormitories
Reasonable Expenses
Ideal Climate
Atmosphere of Southern
Culture
Correspondence Solicited

Anybody who loves a football scrap will
be at the game with Wofford here Saturday.
It’s going to be a good one. Everybody al-
ready knows that. If it is as good as it was
last year it will be a scorcher—from a foot-
ball and temperature standpoint combined.

Freshman Squad Has Some Flashy
Men—Coach Not Optimistic Over
Team Prospects

Fresh Country Vegetables

Staple and Fancy Groceries

With the beginning of the second week of
Freshman football practice, Coach Monk
Mattox has been putting his Kittens through
their first scrimmages. At present, little can
be determined about the prospects of the
team.

Class basketball is one of the sports in
which each student and every class as a whole
takes great’ interest. Keener competition
could not be found or exhibited than that |
which promises to be this year, although
there is a close race every year. If one}
should ask a member of the Senior class just |
|what the pfospects of his class were, he)
would say that the Seniors are. going to be!
the probable winners.

Fellows, see us for replenishing

your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

Davidson, N. C. Coach Mattox is conservative in his opin-
S ions.

We won easily from Elon, but V. M. I.
didn’t win so easily from Wofford. That
says that Wofford is good. Our win over
Elon would indicate that we have a fairly
| good team. With two teams of such rating
However, he does state that he has! matched against each other, there naturally
some fast men and although the team will | follows the conclusion that a good game will |
be lighter than last year’s Fresh team, he) be played. |
hopes to develop a driving team that will | |
make up in speed what it lacks in weight.

In the first encounters that the Fresh had

(III ry

| College Jewelry
H

Watches and Clocks

In fact, the class of ’26 does have a bright | ¥
| | outlook for they have every member of last |
| To lose Sappenfield was i blow to the team | year’s team back. Huie, fast center and |
|—a hard blow. The only view to take, as We! amber of last yeat’s varsity squad, 4s bacte|

on the job, with John Cook and Buster Law- |

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

ak Sa ed ia hed sre appeared | see it, is to accept it as a thing that was to|
weak in holding the plunges of the varsity ‘ : tease 5 | 5
be, and since it has happened it is best for son, good forwards, on hand and looking | _
good, and Parker and Oden as strudy guards. |

Eversharp Pencils Stationery

i rent i ah rea be ace a Ae | us to get down to hard work and not let our |
tributed to the unorganized condition of the 5 iminis | ; .
| hopes be diminished. | Besides these, the Seniors have J. E. Moore,
Thompson, “Buck” Shaw, Sloan, S: W.

team as it had only started practice and no}
specialized teamwork had been developed. | i
That’s hard to do, but the team is going | Moore and Coltrane.
at it hard, and it is up to the student body| Last year’s champions, the present Junior
to back them up. | class, are determined to bring the crown in

Parker Fountain Pens

Open Now for Service

The regular lineup that will compose the |
first team can not be determined yet. The
| following is a list of the men who have been

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies

Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Piri rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rir rr rrr rt

rrr)

Post rt rrr rrr rrr |

The Tate-Brown

Company

CLOTHING
FURNISHINGS
HATS, SHOES

| showing up exceptionally well: Ends: Pow-
{ell, McClure and Monk; tackles; Ritchie
land Leftride. LeFever has been shifted from
| center to guard, where he is going strong, as
}are Johnson, a local boy-. Homegrcen and
Woodward. A real battle is taking place for
{center, where Kerr and Vaughn are having
| it nip and tuck.

As quarterback, Flinn has been given first
| choice, with Williams running him a close
|race. Sam Black, brother of the Wildcat
| varsity captain, and Smith, are both driving
| hard in the fullback position. Among the
,halfbacks, Kell and James are showing up
' exceptionally well. Both of them are good
; punters and are probably the best that the
Fresh have. James is showing real speed,
and besides being a good punter should make
an excellent runner. Other halves showing
good form are: Myers, Covington,’ King,
Winebury and Carr. Five other aspirants
for berths that deserve mention are: Craw-
ford, Gant, McGill, McConnell, and Vance.

The first game the Freshmen have will be
against the High Point College eleven on Oc-
tober 9. Gruelling drills on signals and hard
scrimmaging will be the order of the day
for the Fresh from now on and when the
time comes for that game to start there
should be eleven hard Fresh ready to scrap

MODERNLY EQUIPPED

“FRED’S” RECREATION H ALL

| BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (up stairs)

| Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

MORALLY CONDUCTED

It was said before the game that the Elon
fray would give the coaches an opportunity
to find out the strength of his team. We
wonder if it did. Only four different plays
were run; nothing new was tried, so you
couldn’t see anything but straight football.

The plucky Elonites were going strong
just at the close of the game Saturday, and
it seemed as if the Wildcats in there at the
time were wondering what it was all about.
The Christians comupleted several short
passes and a pretty one for 18 yards.

Jim Hendrix is going to play quarterback.
If he generals the team to victories, that is
all we can ask; We believe that he can do it.
He has a splendid knowledge of football,
having played three years now, and under
the critical eye of Coach Monk will de-
velop into a splendid pilot.

Dick Grey “kinder” stepped off a few
yards Saturday when he clipped off a total
of 136 yards in three runs.’ Made us think
of the races of Jim Hendrix last year in
Asheville, Winston-Salem, Charlotte and
Durham, particularly. If Jim has too big a
task at quarter to carry the ball so much,

SIE |

Bob Crosland won the championship title |

of the city of Charlotte this summer, and

with his lean, lanky form ought to be able

to lambast a few tennis spheres for Davidson

this year. We congratulate Bob, for he had
some good opponents.

again this year. However, the Juniors have
lost some good men whose places will be
difficult to fill) Tom Anderson: and Andy
Hewlett, who made the varsity team last
season, are not cligible for class games.
Neither Faucette nor Kiser are back this
year, and those are heavy losses.

Those remaining of last year’s champion;
team are: Simpson, Keerans, Calhoun,
Goodykoontz, and Womack. There will be
others who will be out when practice starts.
The present Junior class team caused trouble
its first year, and caused more trouble than
any of the other teams could stand last year,
and it is going to cause a lot this year.

The Soph class can be counted on for a
strong team. They put up some strong com-
petition last year as Freshmen and are going
to be on the job again this season. It would
be hard to say who is going to be on the
team but the following will be out, scrapping
for a berth: Millner, Weld, Mills, Taylor,
Ben Wilson, McCaulay, Withers and sev-
eral others.

The Freshman class
horse. Their strength
actly prophesied as the
is safe to say that they will be in the thick
of the fight. At any rate, no team is going
to have a cinch in any of the games.

is always the dark
can not be as ex-
other classes, but it

HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD
THINGS TO EAT

CASHION CAFE

Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

00 A.

In College Display Room every Friday
10: M. to 4:00 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co.

Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

Made Expressly for the and fight in the manner peculiar to their | then Dick will be called upon more. i =
species. ———
College Man If a captain of a team is supposed to be , EAT AT
i a pile-driver, then the Wildcats selected the J
GAMES SATURDAY right man when they chose Wick Black. He THE ASTOR LUNCH
FIRST FALL didn’t go but 55 yards in 12 plays. Further- SERVICE
aaa State more, those were through the line, and still
SHOWING arolina vs. Wake Forest. furthermore, he ran 12 out of 14 consecutive
N. C. State vs, Richmond (Friday). attacks.
Duke vs. Guilford. Sree :
SEPT. 24th BY Our Other Opponents Just now little is being said about the THE BEST OF COOKING
Hampden-Sidney vs. Virginia. Freshman team, but they are trudging away Charlotte, N. C.
Presbyterian vs. Clemson. down on Sprunt Field and will have their
— Furman vs. Newberry. day. Several nice scraps are in progress out —s
; ae Big Southern there for positions.
ra. Tech, vs. Oglethorpe. Ee, ; ;
KEERANS & KING i} Gone \cts® Some ofthe tis boys are fiberng op ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
W. & L. vs. Pitt, these sweltering days. They soon limber |
Agents. In Phi Hall V. P; I. vs, Roanoke, down, too. Remmber, three new men are to| Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it
V. M.I.vs. E.&H be placed on the varsity tennis team this |
: is | with you as you go

ROUND SANE EY

Mooresville Ice Cream Company ssi Wholesale

Incorporated Grey 148 Sea

ies : ci Whe, You Need Candy
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM pcan 3 See Us
: Hendrix 11

Brick ---Eskimo Pi Wells —2 1 —
tick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies we a aa , 26.28 S. College St
Davidson, N. C. feces 4 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

