4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press —
Association |

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH
HAROLD D. BURKE

denksishoacss Editor-in-Chief
.--------Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Qa

---------------Managing Editor
L, WHARTON... -Assistant Managing Editor
P. ES. -Assistant Managing Editor
W. .---Athletic Editor
2 -Associate Editor
0.43 . ..-Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLIN F -.-Associate Editor
GARNETT aS _Humoroys Editor
J. B. WEBB é Alumni Editor
F. K. BELL.-- Exchange Editor
Business Staff
H. D. BURKE...----.-- Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH.....-- Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER-- .-.-Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON. -. Supscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON._-. Subscription Manager
C. W. WILLIAMS. --Solicitor
Vacs OYLES Solicitor
E. L. DOUGLASS -.-Assistant
JULIAN LAKE. e Department
Reporters’ Club
. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres. B. MARTIN
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN J. FE. MOORE
F. K. BELL FE. K. REGEN
Cc. L. BRAGAW H. ELBY
D. M. CALHOUN J. B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON J. .B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS J. G. WHARTON
FE. L. DOUGLASS Rh. WILSON
F. T, FRANKLIN C. WITHERS
S. GORDON W. S. WOODS

=

EDITORIAL

We admit that the paper is a little off color
as a whole, but we hope that the student
body will read the same with rose-tinted
glasses.

—_—______—_)D-—____—___ {
The Old Reliable presents the freshman
issue with the hopes that the upperclass-
men will be lenient and let their little friends
enjoy the reading of it in peace.

Yes, and they’re going to make the fur
fly off Furman when they calm down that
terrible purple hurricane to the consistency
of a peaceful zephyr Saturday |

Mrs. Smith’s letter to the students of this
issue is worthy of thought. The parlors in
the three dormitories referred to, have been
for the most part a minus quantity among
the students for whose use they were in-
tended, They could, by judicious use and
care, be made, to serve the purpose of a
hostess house, or a fraternity room for those
who like such a place. As they now stand,
they represent a waste of money.

—D

Nick Sappenfield has been bearing up
bravely these dreary weeks that he has been
confined in the sanatorium in Charlotte. No
doubt he misses the active life of the campus
in which he took so prominent a part. He
would appreciate any yisit on the part of
a Davidson student, or a letter or post card
telling him that you miss him. Such an act
would be mighty little, but we believe that
it would make him feel mighty good. Do
it now.

D

Saturday will be the time for another
demonstration of that famous old-time pep.
We will stack up against formidable Bap-
tists from Furman who are known to be
real fighters. The rooting spirit displayed
at the Wake Forest fracas was a part and
not a small one of the final outcome of that
memorable conflict. Monk and his aides,
Professor Wachter and the rest of the old
guard will be there to yell. Lift up your
chest and let the old anthems roll. :

Well, according to last reports, the Wild-
cat is still craving a decent cage. Don’t you
suppose that the old boy is getting lone-
some for a real football game. He has a
hard time of it; the only pleasure that he
gets out of life is observing the pretty girls
who still like to see him. He needs a first-
class cage in the middle of the campus and
a_free..trip. to Charlotte and. Chapel Hill
where he can sit in majesty before the ad-
miring throngs and cream for Davidson. He
doesn’t need a fancy bungalow or love-nest
to keep his tootsies warm but an ordinary
dwelling ‘where all can behold him in his
feline splendor. :

HALLOWE’EN

For the past many years it has been a
hoary and-time-honored tradition that a lit-
tle devilment be raised on the last night in
October when witches ride and the goose
hangs high. Unfortunately this time of
high spirits has resulted in a little unseem-
ly decoration about the campus that is of-
fensive to the best tastes of those who are
fastidious.

This refers to the long, white streamers
that have drooped so noticeably from the
trees at any and all parts of this campus.
Surely this is a little bit crude and time-
worn to say the least. It is offensive to
good taste and out of regard to the good
women of the town, it should be dispensed
with. Try something different, but lay off
the pre-Yuletide decoration of these beau-
tiful trees of ours.

Many women have to come on the campus
for various purposes and it is not fair to
them that they should havesto witness such
puerile makeshifts of Hallowe’en sports.

Think this over, fellows and see whether
you yourself can’t do a little toward ridding
Davidson of this nuisance.
tp)

FRESHMEN

Freshmen reading this issue of The David-
sonian will do well to try to visualize the
four years of college life that lies before
them. To them those years will seem long,
as they are only on the bottom rungs of the
ladder, But ask any Senior, and he will tell
you that the past few years spent at David-
son has been short indeed. ‘

It is a sad fact that one rarely appreciates
opportunities and privileges until he has
passed them, What a tremendous power it
would be for us if we could realize the im-
portance of grasping an opportunity while
it is still young, .

The men of the class of ’29 have these
years ahead of them to use for their profit
or disadvantage. For it is a disadvantage
for one to drift aimlessly through college,
with no definite purpose in mind, seeking
the path of least resistance, and putting all
thoughts of the future aside,

The men who succeed are those who care-
fully map out a definite program of work
and play; a studied plan of progress which
can be engaged upon with profit to him that
is concerned,

Certain hours for study, recreation and
exercise each day, and a definite plan for
the future and concentration, will make the
life of any freshman what his parents would
like it to be. ;

Minor Chords

THOSE FRESHMEN
The freshmen are a homely lot
Of birds that never know just what
It is to rock the boats.
They're needed in this college game;
They always get the kicks and blame—
The freshmen are the goats.

In days of old they strutted bold

With peg-top pants to ward off cold,
And mufflers at their throats

They pressed the Juniors’ Sunday suits

“Ind blacked the kingly Seniors’ boots—
The freshmen were the goats.

And if they acted like some cranks

The Sophs would deftly wield their planks
«Ind cause some mournful notes.

In Latin class they fain would shout,

“We're shot, professor, please look out!”
The freshmen were the goats.

The upper-classmen need some friends
On whom their happiness depends,
«Ind rare good times denotes.
“Ind knowing well the scrapes they had,
For kindly fate's decree they're glad
That freshmen are the goats.
—Frederick Smith.

Open Forum

CAMPUS SPORTS ‘

The Davidsonian contained last week an edi-
torial advocating some form of intra-mural sports
on the campus. The article has called forth some
discussion on the subject, all that has come to
the ears of the writer being whose-heartedly in
favor of the sports.

Everybody is willing to admit that physical ex-
ercise every day is essential to the best health
and a great help to study—those who make it a
habit to visit the gym or engage in’ regular ex-

.ercise, as well as thos who do not will admit that

much.

Also from th verbal encounters that are almost
nightly occurences between the dormitories, it
seems entirely feasible that the students in each
of the larger dormitories at any rate can get up
enough. dormitory spirit to put on some spirited

contests in soccer, football, volley ball, or other |

sports.

We are all in favor of some form of sports of
this nature—but what are we going to do about
it? Teams and games and heated contests do
not grow up of their own accord.

A representative of the Davidsonian called on
Captain Elkins of the R. O. T. C. Department dur-
ing the week, not for the purpose of asking him
about intra-mural sports but for other informa-
tion. The Captain however, expressed to the re-
‘porter his hearty approval of the sentiment ex-
pressed in the Davidsonian of last week, which
sentiment was seconded by the entire personnel
of the local army instructors.

Captain Elkins not only expressed his approval
of the plan, but offered his services to act as in-
structor in the games, Now we have at least one
coach, and doubtless others will offer their sery-
ices.

Here we are—all need exercise, few get it: all
want exercise, few care enough about it to go to
the gym or take setting up drill in their rooms.
All like to play, and competitive sport is every-
where acknowledged as one of the best kinds of
sports. Every dormitory believes that it has the
best men on the campus, and they are ready to
prove it. Now Captain Elkins has offered to help
as instructor in the games. Why can’t we have
dormitory games on the campus, let everybody
profit and let the best
mitory prove that it is best—not in a bull session,
but in a real Wildcat scrap?

by good exercise, dor-

MRS. SMITH WRITES

Anent the article, by Brutus, in last week's

Davidsonian. I think it but fair to say a few
words in defense of the college, as regards the
conditions existing here at present, relative to a
place in which non-frat students can receive their
relatives and friends.

Attached to each of the three new dormitories,
is a parlor, reception room, or whatever you may
choose to designate it, neatly furnished and very
comfortable, which is at the disposal of any stu-
dent desiring to use it in which to receive his rel-
atives. Dr. Martin went to considerable pains to
persuade the Board of Trustees to give us these
especial rooms forthis purpose. Of course they
can, and should be used for other purposes too.

T have my office in the parlor of Watts and the
room is certainly very comfortable and not so
unattractive that any student need hesitate to
bring his people there. In fact, they do come fre-
quently and we are always glad to have them.
So after all we are not absolutely destitute along
this line. Now, when it comes to your “girl
fricnds,”"—that is a different proposition, and no
one wishes more than Ido, that you had a hostess
house in which to receive them, and with a hos-
tess all your very own. IT can easily understand
what it would mean to you. For years I’ve been
wishing for this very thing for Davidson.

But in the absence of your “Matron,” she not
being present to speak for herself, I must say,
whoever she may be, you have proposed to give
her a pretty hefty commission—unwittingly of
course,

MRS. N. T. SMITH,

Supervisor Dormitories.

THAT OLD SPIRIT

Somebody has said that Davidson would not be
Davidson if it were not for a small group of
individuals continually grumbling over the pass-
ing of the wildcat spirit. Those fellows are la-
Ways saying, “why during my Freshman yéar
there was twice as much spirit as there is now.”
Maybe the fellows that say this think it to be
true because in most every man’s college career
the things that happen during his first year are
stamped more indelibly upon his mind than the
things which occur later on. Or maybe it is true
to some extent that the Davidson spirit is just
not what it used to be. But we believe and as
we think, justly, that the spirit of the wildcat is
growing every day.

Then Davidson spirit is a stable thing.
When our football team carrying the ball
straight down the field, we yell and when the odds
are going against us the cheering is all the more
forceful.

too,

is

But we must not allow our spirit to center en-
tirely on the football team. We have other teams
and we have the men who represent us in de-
bates. It is just as much our duty to cheer them
on to victory as it is yell ourselves hoarse when
the football team makes a touchdown.

The four years that we spend here are short
ones and ones in which we have an opportunity to
make a-name for ourselves. Are we going to sit
in sessions until midnight and allow every oppor-
tunity to slip through our fingers? Are we going
to be content with just our studies and take no
part..in pther activities.
amount and character of work that he is able to
do. How much are you worth?

J. Z. Mc.

Wildcats lick the Stamps.

A man is valued by the .

STATISTICS THAT FRESHMEN
ONLY SHOULD READ

The King of England very rarely drives a Ford
roadster to church,

If all the fish in the ocean did not learn to swim
in early infancy they would probably drown.

Of all the famous players that the
United States or South Carolina has ever known,
not one has been found who can fill simultaneously
the position of pitcher and catcher.

No one has ever been accused of thinking that
a man named Isador Cohen was an Irishman,
If the books who
glasses were piled in a single stack they would

baseball

all written by men wear
probably topple over.

If all the corner-stones of the government build-
ings in Washington were hurled from the star-
board side of a flat boat they would sink.

If the main springs were removed from all the
watches made in Switzerland and placed end to
end, the watches would not run.

{f all the eggs layed duringthe summer of 1912
were collected together in one pile in the Metro-
politain Opera House, they would probably smell
bad.

Drugstore cowboy says, “To be popular a girl

must powder her face and neck.”

Freshman—*Pardon could tell me
roughly what time it is?’
Kuykendall—"Yes; you blankety-blank @ & !

!!2 !!, it’s nearly two o'clock.”

mie,

you

A RUNNING PLAY

Time—Sunday afternoon,

Place—Highway.

Characters—A Freshman; an autoist.

Freshman walking along highway, and autoist
driving along.

Autoist—"Tired walking?

Fresh—“Yes sir”

Autoist—“Then try running awhile.”

Car speeds on to Charlotte.

News Item—Garters and suspenders will not be
worn on the campus this winter.

Daily Health Hint—A man larger than you is
never a liar, he is mistaken,

When a boy making fifteen a week decides to
get married, either he is in love or her old man has
plenty of jack.

FAMOUS BATS
Baseball

Brick
George

A Fable: Once upon. a time there wasa college
boy who received a check from home and re-
turned it, saying he had enough.

Correct this sentence: “Now gentlemen, I shall
cut the next six classes because I really think you
need a rest.”

WEEKLY QUIZZES

Problems that twist the brains. All Freshmen
who cannot solve at least forty per cent of these
problems should give up all hope of making the
Phi Beta Kappa.

1. A Ford has run dry three hundred yards
from a creek. The only vessel obtainable is a
tomato can with a two inch split in the bottom.
How many trips must be made before the rad-
iator is filled?

2. You sit at a table in the restaurant with
three very beautiful girls. You do not know the
girls. You order a slice of mincemeat pie, and
ask for your check. The waiter brings one check
including the meal that the girls have just Finish-
ed. (A) How can you save your pocket-book
from being wrecked, (B) how can you date up all
three girls without hurting anyone’s feelings?

3. If you have four straight tickets and a test
the next day, there is a bridge game in your room,
you have two dollars andthere’s a big dance in
Charlotte, and you have a date in Concord, what
do you do?

4. You are dining with your girl’s family. You
reach across the table for a piece of celery, and
your left hand spills a cup of coffee in papa’s lap;

‘you-jump up te.bes .dic_pardon and tip the gravy

in mama’s lap.
eat the celery?

Editor’s Note: The answers to the above will
be sent to anyone who will write, enclosing self-
addressed, stamped envelope.

Should you or should you not

KABLE.
