4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._...-----.-.-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN. Business M

Editorial Staff
F. SMITH.
BMI TON 2es2 ccc ceccneoncest Assistant Managing Editor
-Assistant Managing Editor

Cc.
Ww.

Managing Editor |

Sessncasusescncseseseee Peanut Parcher Editor |

EFFICIENCY AND INDIVIDUALISM

N this modern age, effeciency has become

the keynote to which every man must

respond, and with which every man must
keep in tune. Society has become a highly-
organized unit, a machine into which each
man fits like a cog, working not as a private
entity, but as a mere part of the machinery
of society, sacrificing his individuality to a
greater or less degree to the whims and
caprices of a society which is ever demand-
ing more and more of the time and life of its
members,

Efficiency is the ruler of the age, a ruler
who relentlessly absorbs its subjects into
itself, making them living exponents of its
law. Centuries ago the belief in individual -
ism changed to nationalism, and now the
trend is toward an internationalism of out-
look on life with its varied problems. But
neither nationalism or internationalism is
antagonistic to the development of the in-
dividual.

The crux of the whole situation lies in our
relation to efficiency. Efficiency should be
our servant and not our master. As a
servant efficiency is of great value to us in

the development of our individual abilities

H. B. PRICE. og Associate Editor
Wiehe BRANCHES Se eee eee Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW.. SesceuA e Editor
G. D. ROGERS. -Alumni Editor
LDE WHARTON scéubucwustacenesscoascssiee Athletic Editor |

Business Staff

J. A. THOMPSON.
T. C, MeSWAIN.

Subscription Manager

CMRPHUNDDRitec coos ee Bookk
J. M. GARRISON. Service M
W. H. LYNCH.

Typist

Reporters’ Club
B. GIBBS, President J. M. GARRISON

c

D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. J. P. GLADNEY

A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON P. F. JONES

jj M,. APPLEBY J. D. LAW;

H. M. AUSTIN W. _H. LYNCH

C, L. BRAGAW. R. H. McILWAINE

V. S. BROYLES GARNETT McMILLAN
D, M. CALHOUN J. E. MOORE

W. T. COVINGTON C, C. MURCHISON

W. T. DAVIS R. B. KE.

C, M. EDDINGTON E. K. REGEN

F, T. FRANKLIN : J. B. THOMPSON

L. L. DEC W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Examinations—with all that they mean—-
begin a week from today. ‘

D

The past week has seen Wildcat athletic

stock rise still higher with the double vic-
tory over the Duke quint.
D
_ No better axamples of the Wildcat fight-
ing spirit can be cited than the last victory
over Trinity and the first win over
Duke, In each case a fighting Red and
Black team came back and won in the face
of seemingly overwhelming defeat.

On the gridiron Trinity led 12-7 at the end
of the third quarter but the final whistle
found them trailing 13-21. On the hard-
wood floor, With but eight minutes of play
remaining Duke led 25-13 but 14 Davidson
points reversed the lead, and the Wildcats
won 27-25. It was one of the greatest come-
backs ever staged by a Wildcat team.

D
_The Wildcats are pointing now for the
Carolina game at Chapel Hill Saturday.
That constitutes the most important game
on the Wildcat schedule. A win would leave
the Wildcats in the race for State honors
while a loss would make Carolina and Wake
Forest the chief contenders for the honor.

D:

Tonight the orators of the Senior Class
speak to determine which four men shall
have the right to speak commencement for
the Oratorical medal. A large number are

competing and the occasion should be an
interesting one. d

——___pD_.

The Davidsonian has at last succumbed to
the crass-word puzzle craze and prints one
in its colums this-week for the first time.

We believe The DavidsonYan is one of the |

first college papers in the country, and cer-
tainly the first in the South to join the ranks.
Fred Smith, managing editor of the paper,
1s responsible for this weck’s puzzler.
D
The P. C. Student Body believes in a last
taste of freedom. Certain amendments to
the constitution were passed before Christ-
mas, to go into effect immediately,
the return from the holidays it was found
that many of the present councilmen object-
ed to taking their new oath. It was then de-
cited that the amendments should not go in-
to effect until the election of the new coun-
cilmen in May.

The Blue Stocking, the college weekly, in |

conumenting upon the action says:
_ “The compromise may be translated, “riot
three days more of grace,” but four months
More of liquor. :
That’s the spirits, boys.”

and talents. As a master, or even as a
fetish, it becomes an altar upon which we

| Sacrifice our lives, with their wealth of in-

sibel Circulation Manager |

dividuality and distinctiveness.

We admire distinctiveness in our possess-
ions, in the make of car which we drive, in
the house which we live in. We shrink

from the rows upon rows of houses in the |

factory district, alike in every detail, and
yet in our own lives most of us submerge

tution, and then criticizes Mr. Duke for im-
posing the conditions under which the he-
quest was made, evidently failing to grasp
the true conditions and situation under
which the bequest was made. The editorial
follows:

“Not very long since we sat at the feet of
one of the South’s most able Christian
speakers, and heard him expound on this
subject: “What’s Your Name?” in which
he showed that in the old days, more so than
now, everything was in a name, and men
were given names to signify some inherent
characteristic.

“It is sad to relate that times do change
in some respects, and in many cases today
the name means too little. Yet how many
of us are willing to assume a new name, and
live under it the remainder of our lives?
Only the opposite sex are practically unani-
mously in favor of this, and because of an
ordinance, holy in God’s sight. The basis
of this change is love, and certainly money
plays a small part in all cases of change of
name; yet, there are some who would not

|
|
|

only sell their name, but like Esau, their

birthright as well.
“Recently the Board of Trustees of what

| was Trinity College, North Carolina, by a

our individuality completely in a pitiful de- |

sire to conform to the dictates of custom

| and fashion, °

| is efficiency.

| South and of the entire nation

| heard on every hand,

Efficiency can either make or break us.
If we control it, we may use it in the fur-

| thering of our visions ‘and dreams; if it

controls us, we may develop into mere ma-
chines, forgetful of ourselves, working only
for a material goal money, power—forget-
ful of the greater things which make up life
and constitute the true test of success.

The greatest thing in life is not the ac-
quisition of wealth or power, but the de-
velopment of the individual so that he may
best serve society, and in so doing acquire

| happiness, that will-of-the-wisp which ever

flits beyond the reach of the man whose god

Happiness is the goal toward which, at
some time or other in their lives, all men
strive, but which few achieve. It is a vague
something which comes indirectly to those
who are brave enough to hold on to their
idealism and individuality in the face of a
materialistic world which goes on its effi-
cient way unable to know the joys which it
is missing,

Never should the false gods of efficiency
be alowed to overwhelm and subdue the
divine spark of individuality which rests in
every man. When man’s efficiency blots
out his individuality he ceases to be a man
and becomes a mere automaton,

With efficiency as our master or fetish,
we fail; with efficiency as our slave, we can
achieve success, * ~

MORE ABOUT DUKE

The conditions under which Trinity Col-
lege changed its name to Duke University
have excited much comment, both favorable
and unfavorable, from the press of the
. These com-
ments are not confined to the daily press or
to the religious leaders concerned, but are
he Two college weeklies,
The Hornet of Furman University and The
Hampden-Sidney Tiger, in their issues of
January 9 commented editorially on the sub-
ject. :

Both papers were emphatic in their state-

| ment that such a change in name could not

but upon |

take place at. their respective institutions,
but their views in regard to the change
which was made were radically different.

The Hornet, after giving reasons to prove
that Furman would never change its name
to acquire such a gift, merely states that
such a course was entirely justified in the
case of Trinity:

“However, in the case of Trinity College
it is different. Trinity was named for no
particular person, and while that school has
tradition behind it, change of its name will
not affect the traditions of the institution.
Furthermore Mr. Duke has been one of the

| greatest benefactors of Trinity, now Duke

University, and it is altogether proper that

| the man who has done so much for the
| North Carolina school should be honored in

such a manner.”

The Hampden-Sidney Tiger, on the other
hand takes a strangely antagonistic viewto-
ward thé* change of name at the Methodist
institution. In an editorial entitled What's
In a Name? it first scores the Trustees of
Trinity for changing the name of the insti-

unanimous vote, changed the name of that
institution to Duke University—to honor the
father of a millionaire who in turn would
pour out his millions of dollars, acquired
honestly, no doubt, but by the toil and sweat
of other men, on the institution under the
condition that the name would thus be
changed.

“Well, what’s ina name, anyway? What’s
in that name? Trinity? ‘They say that the
name Trinity didn’t mean anything much,
anyhow. No? Only the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost. Of course, they don’t mean
much in this day and time to the intellect-
ually proud, Then this must be a sign of
the times,
institutions of the South losing their spirit-

| ualism, to be replaced by materialism.

“What would be our price to present-day
millionaires for replacing the name Hamp-
den-Sidney by their title? Certainly, this
name carries none of the meaning that the
one mentioned above carries, but what
meaning it does carry in Liberty (after the
patriots for whom it is named), not to men-
tion those things so cherished by us on ac-
count of history, is a bulwark against such

a transaction, and Hampden-Sidney, in our |

We regret to see the educational |

eves, would best remain poor and struggling |

all the days to eternity than to sell her birth-
right for a “mess of pottage.”

“Mr. Duke has doubtless succeeded in an
undertaking that would have pleased his
earthly father, but whether or not he has
pleased his heavenly Father is a question.”

In writing the scathing article quoted
above, several salient points in the case were
entirely overlooked. For many years Mr.
Duke has been the benefactor or Trinity Col-

lege. Already, he has given millions for the |

needs and uses of the school. Now. Mr.
Duke wishes to establish a lasting memorial
in memory of his father, Washington L.
Duke,

As to the nature of this memorial, he de- |

cides upon no inanimate monument, but up:
on a University, with its educational ad-
vantages to the youth of the section, iis
great possibilities of service, and with its
work of aiding in placing the South en an
educational parity with the other sections.of
the country, All this he decides upon as a
memorial to the father whom he loved and
honored so highly.

Naturally, his mind turns toward Trinity |

with which both he and his father before
have been s6 intimately connected.” There
stands already a monument to the gener-
osity of his father. If Trinity wished it, it
would be far easier to transform it into a
great university than to build one out of
nothing, but Mr. Duke was not ready to be
dictatorial, nor could he be.

When the bequest was made, Mr. Duke

| merely announced his intention of setting

aside $5,000,000 for the founding of a uni-

| versity to be named in memory of his father.

undertaking that would have pleased his |

This university was to be established some-
where in North Carolina. To Trinity Col-

lege, already closely connected with the |

Duke family, he gave the option of changing

its name and receiving the $6,000,000. He |

left the matter entirely in the hands of the
governing board of the college.

Is there anything in such an action to |

justify anyone in the statement that
“Mr. Duke has doubtless succeeded in an

| earthly father, but whether or not he has

pleased-his heavenly Father is a question.”
Does the acceptance of this gift mean, as
The Tiger seems to. imply, that the Metho-
“dist institution has lost its spiritualism at
one fell stroke, and lapsed into a state of
sordid materialism? Can it be said that
by this action*of the Board of Trustees, it
sold its birthright for a mess of pottage?

Chaff

EXAMINATIONS

Questions

Since there are only a few more days left be-
fore exams begin the Chaffer wishes to be of as
much resistance as possible to all concerned;
therefore he has decided to publish the Applied
Math questions, as will be given on the fatal day.
They run as follows (answers below):

I. If it takes a wooden-legged jackass forty-
seven seconds flat ta make a mile on a slippery
pavement, how much will it cost to erect a me-
morial to the Royal Order of the Knights of the
Watermelon Patch?

2, Provided there are only one million, two
hundred and eighty-six thousand, nine hundred
and forty-eight gallons of water in Lake Erie,
and it is now about fourteen minutes after nine,
‘what is the price of hundred pound blocks of ice
in Alaska?

3. If it takes a yard of thread to sew a button
on a crap-shooter’s overcoat, how many suits of
clothes are there in an elephant’s trunk?

4. A is forty-seven yards from B. B picks up
a piece of Irish confetti and hurls same at A,
striking him on the Boneypart, knocking him
out. From all possible angles, what would be the
price of cotton by the bale on a warm frosty
morning in New Dumberland?

5. If a bow-legged bluejay swims thirteen
miles in a day, how many fools are there in this
world?

Answers

i, It depends upon the condition of the patch.
‘2, The same as the distance from you to the
next fellow.

3. That would be telling.

4. Ask Dad. He knows.

5. One more than you think there are.

Impressions of a big city by one who has never
been there:

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
By Ed. U. Cation

Charlotte, N. C—The home of J. B. Duke, who
has a big water squirter in his front yard, The
home of the Halambra Theatre, where bull, calves,
and chickens abound. Tryon Street—where you
never get to try on nothing; you don’t even try.
Union depot, only there’s no union, for the trains
run twenty-four hours a day. Trade Street, but
they never trade it off. Central hotel—but you
don’t recognize it because there are no telephone
operators there. Mint Street, where not even
grass can grow. It can’t get up through the con-
crete. Presbyterian Standard Publishing Com-
pany, without a church anywhere near it. Bon
Marche, where everything is just as Marche as
any other place, and where the salesgirls all look
alike.

They have a Queen’s College, a King’s Business
College, but no Princess Theatre.

A revolving fragment of the Paleozoic era col-
lects no substantial amount of cryptogrameous

vegetation (a rolling stone gathers no moss).
G. McM.

Much thought must be exercised before
an opinion is expressed, one way or the
other, as to the wisdom and good judgment
of the Board of Trustees in their action. A
great responsibility was placed on that body.
They had to decide whether they should
change their name and receive an outright
gift of $6,000,000 and an annual income of
$500,000, or whether they should hold their
name and lose the gift, with all the good
which that money is potentially able to ac-
complish.

Who can say that they sold their birth-
right by changing the name and accepting
the gift? Certainly, it is not for us to criti-
cize or judge. By its incorporation as Duke
University, the institution has widened its
scope.of service, and bids fair to become one
of the greatest educational institutions in
the country.

We do not believe that Davidson, any
more than Furman or Hampden-Sidney,
would have changed her name to receive
such a gift, but all such beliefs will ever
remata-ia the realm, of conjecture. We are
certainly not in a position to criticize Trin-
ity for their action. The Trustees thought
the matter out to a unanimous conclusion,
and acted on their judgbent. A great future
lies ahead for Duke University.
