THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26,1925” :

]
in session here yesterday. The list gives FRESH CLASS DRESSES UP
JONES, 24, WRITES the names, addresses and classes of the Wh K: 9 SPRING ATHLETIC FIELD Librar News
AGAIN iS various alumni and follows : 0 hows : ae : — : y
; Synod of North Carolina Phe Freshman class has again been
To the Men of ‘24, Rev, H. N. MeDiarmid, ‘rt. Kinstons pyar in yond: Davidentia seruly teain uae to veel on the AUG Lu 334 iamielhy Rredericks
Fellows : Rey. J. N. H. Summerell, '73, New Bern; beat the Morganton Deaf Mutes 11-0? Mean Me) CAE MENA URANO Mele (a L.o8 New Opportunities for the
Three short months and the first Mr. Ruffner. Campbell, °47, Asheville: ues eS Hite cin PEL pesdinaaee Ministry hog
meeting of our class, within a year, Rey. Byron Clark, ‘00, Salisbury; Rey. FE That a sintul Senior pitched horseshoes ee Baie us SORA. ips shy 202.1 Robertson, A. T.
will be called to order. Make the D. Brown, '03, China Grove; Rey. A. AL, 2) Sundkwy Gir We andl ciated tf al Hee en on the field during the Rog Glory of the Ministry 1Olt
attendance full. Let's get together McLean, ‘06, Lenoir; Mr. J. C. Harper, ankle the followin ayer RAE TE Suse ligating Hanke Tees et 170 Gorvin, EK. B. (and Wheatley,
and talk over the past year; a 15, Lenoir; Mr. G. W. Hall, ‘05, Hickory; é Serene as ae SUL le We \\eea\)
great year for old Davidson in Rev. C. M. Richards, ‘02, Davidson; Mr. es Dee BOIIE al Wie a USGRUEIE Onl cos Occupations, 1906
more ways than one. Athletics Mr. AL. James, ‘06, Laurinburg; Rey, BE. Phat in toro the Student Body in gen- ed AME and daily a few Freshmen are oe Nhlon, ipradladidk {h.
have been a great success, the en- L.. Siler, ‘87, Maxton: Mr. J. W. Me eral celebrated Washington's Birthday seen with rakes or shovels repairing the Ve ROR A Woeation ‘tai
dowment has ben materially in- Lauchlin, ‘71, Raeford; Rey. W. A. Mur- by setting shot? Aids Pe TOU Cet iy Os te . Swain, George Fillmore
creased, and the spirit of the old ray, ‘06, Shelby; Mr. S. A. Robinson, ‘ou. rain, Others may be seen drawing the o ae ae ; : Gril
Pa cenImCETA SIRE KGL Ta: Gastonia; Rey Ay A. MuGedchy: ‘oh Asche OHEIAT olan (Ot uneaeniile roller around the track, ironing it out} So7t ey Man anc \ os
able than cevr. Charlotte; Mr. J. W. Pharr. "80, Char- sium) provided for a swimming pool, LOTUS USSU ULB ; a6 eS me
Drop that work and catch the lotte; Mr. H. N. Pharr, ’87,.° Charlottes which was omitted on account of lack.. AN Festive TEAR ST OI EG CES se eal Ee OS el | ike 1.
train for Davidson. You will see Rev. ©. BE. Hodgin, ‘04, Greensboro; Rey oof funds when the building was) con- PAU LR the work dane and Sites ie ; aN a Ee ee 1022
more old friends there than you ‘Dp. I. Craig, Tk, Reidsville: Mr. Don FE structed, ‘ are already beginning To Improve dh ape isin, s : O22
: i i is : Hens ce fade PS ernonocee a. pes tan pearance, 340 Baldwin, Simeon TE,
ever will see again. The Class of Scott, 07, Graham; Mr. T. DD. Dupiy, ‘or, j 5:
1925 has planned a commencement Greensboro; Rev. W. M. Baker, ‘oo, Mt. } ; Gu aes SUN oe) UES DEL ae palled oF daily.) Bike ells ND GES EE
iets c F 5 reat Fyre ; ny. Ngesaa : Phat in the pood old days the Hu Soci- the work should be tinished in fine shape 1920
which means an enjoyable time for Olive; Rev. J. O. Mann, ‘06, Wilmington ; : cen 3 j :
everyone; we should be there to @| Mr. J. Edward Johnston, ‘14, Winston- ae es be we na oT before all the Hreshinen have their tart 971 Wright, Henry Parks.
help send them off. And, then, salem; Rev. J. H. Carter, ‘oo, Elkins Mr. SURE TE Ta ate from femuate society” Vat the work, Wos! Young man and Teach-
there are a few ideas which some YT. A. Finley, 17, North: Wilkesboro, he a A ae Pa a ing, My}
of the men want to present for or- 3 Synod of Georgia ee eee HIGH SCHOOLS INVITED - =
ganization in the future, and for Mr. George Seott Candler, ‘o7, Decatur: - State championships will be decided by the
keeping in better touch with old Rev. A. Ray Howland, ‘1s, Atlanta; Mo. Mhat on October a7, toes, WS. Ditmas (Continued from page 1) results of this contest,
EL NAGE Lehi a ; H. 1. Smith, '88 Dalton; Rev. Carl Barth, with the wad of a elke int flashlight €X" during the day will be furnished to contest Coach Rawson is planning to enter a
Ride the Southern to Jaybirds- ‘oS, Macon; Mr. W. A. Watt, ‘or, Thomas plored the south pillar of Old ( hambers ants free ot charge. OA lack of sutfieient | freshman team in the relay and field events
ville on June first.” ville; Rey. LG. Henderson, ‘o2, Albany; t0 verify: the old story that WE ve ARENT G quarters has made it impossible for the eal fof the day, and prospects seem bright for the
Randolph Jones, Jr. Rev. No 1. Anderson, °55, Savannah. a human skeleton and that he found onty lege officials to undertake the provision of | Wildkittens, ‘Phe entrance list closes on
Synod of Florida the skull? sleeping accommodations for the many com | Mareh 7th, and many high schools are hurry:
| Rev. We J. Garrison, ‘o8 St, Peters- petitors, ine to vet in their entrance blanks. The new
ALUMNI NOTES ‘burg. That in tor the listorie entrance to No entrance tee will he charged for en [track and jumping pits on Richardson Kield,
‘o7—W, P. Noy Aone Wenn ae ay ene geen Old Chamb rs was used for a scene in tering teams in the carnival and the meet }with new developments that Me ns ane
Wile durinertienvene: Hu waesan: eccKiG ‘i Ss : ce Ree O2, Richmond, Va ao omeovie and Mat several students ap will he held solely tor the purpose of en fmade, will ne ideally Se for as Ht 2
in the interest of his firm. D. L. Flacic ve ran a Richardson, 0, Greenshon, peared as extras? couraging competition among — secondary and Coach Tilson ts Pa 0 a
and Son, coal exporters : ne aa Thornton \ hating, v7 Louis schools, and to give high school track ath Jing a large crowd o! track enthusiasts o
Ee ville. Wy. Mr. W. 1. Bailey, ‘06. Green- Hie tn Whar eons tice contin ie letes the benefit of additional experience, Nowhand for the big carnival.
——_— ood, S sae 5 aA ie TE: ' ‘ £ {) : ue % J
02—C. L, Grey, president of the Grav Lae me Bae aa sae ee vembers of the iu Society all members
Hosiery Mills in Hendersonville, N.C. Rock Hill, S.C os = "were required to wear. black erepe on
stopped over on his return from. the their deft arms and to abstain from music E N 9 S
Men of the Chureh Conference in Greens- and all jolly crowds for a week 2 W A R R
ae JUNIORS’ INTEREST RISES
‘oo—W. TT. Thompson, professor at aa That "O Davidson” which we know so Of Philadelphia
Union Seminary, will take entire charge (Continued from Page 1) wellinade its first appearance at a band
of the Young People’s Work in the) season, will be found one of the most charm- concert in Shearer Hall, May 4. toi? JACK CUNNINGHAM Representative
Christian Observer. ing and beautiful pictures ever witnessed on
a SS the campus. That seven or cight vears ago the stu- $ I
10—E, A. Woods, Jr, is supply pastor) The program for Sunday will be a special dents were seated by classes at. the Showing a Complete Line of Woolens
at the First Church in Greensboro dur- “Y” service, to which all the visiting girls hoarding houses?
ing Dr. Myers’ trip to Palestine. will be specially invited, and a service will he | Suits $35.00 Up. Top Coats $25.00 Up
i held in keeping with the occasion, Vhat in i807 the favorite resort of the .
‘16—N. P. Farrior has resigned his field Monday marks the close of Junior Speak- boys was the “Piscaterial Parlor’ run by = : e H
in Mexico because the high altitude has ing. There will be two dances this day in Mr, Holland Helper in the Thompson Beautiful assortment Neckwear in popular colors
sreatly impaire Seon Paice fre | Charlotte, one in the afternoon and the see- Store2 i
Se ree He “ie : esenth ond Monday night. “With these will) close : Remember the time and place---
'21—R. C. Clontz, of Wilmington, visit- the holidays and closed in such a way to ‘That the following definitions appear-
ed the hill on his return tame e Men's | leave with the students and their visitors a er in the Magazine for January, 191g? MONDAY, MARCH 9th 103 WEST
Convention in Greensboro. | pleasant and oft-recalled memory of the five “A smile is ‘a daugh with the noise left z
om days of Junior Speaking of 19235. out.” x
‘22—D. P. McGeachy sang with the Two features of the holidays have been “Nothing: A footless sock without al) g=
Union Seminary quartet at Greensboro | Strongly emphasized by the Junior class. Jeg.”
during the convention. | First there will be a host of girls on the = a: EAT AT
fcampus the like of which has never been DAVIDSONIAN WILL BENEFIT :
'23—Lex W. Kluttz is the state director S¢¢™ The number of students and fraterni THE ASTOR LUNCH
of the Near East Relief at Columbia. S. ¢._ | tes has increased since the last Speaking (Continued from page 1)
_ ee consequent increase in’ the number Wipe out the deficit which the publication in- SERVICE
Addresses Changed of girls here, The fraternities will hold a leurred last year, A splIndid cause anf a splen
oe ; reception for their visitors after the carnival ,- eure ; f ' ew sd
ae Bs ene have received let- Saturday night. The second feature will be ee etek en a Ayer ee rl 4 ue |
ters trom the following Alumni the pastja Junior Speaking Magazine gotten out by "et esau e ua eV CADAUONIZOUALY,
week: ee Junior are eerie miei in pee Ene Oe ree uclent badly, : THE BEST OF COOKING
'75—Rev. R. S. Burwell, Hopewell, N.C. | ing with the atmosphere of the days. Fred- wane te NAG oe TCacn yds Mgrely a0th Charlotte, N. C.
‘07—W. P. Anderson, Secretary David-| crick Smith is to be editor of this publica Se
son College Alumni Association of New | tion, and he will have a competent: board of —_
York; No. I, Broadway, NYY; assistants. 2 ™
‘oo—Rev. J. S. Cooper, Durham, N. C. While these plans are yet to be placed in oe CALENDAR i] H
‘1o—Emmett G. Routt, 162 Columbia | their final state, the above is a fair report | Vhursday— ee H
Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y, ot what the Easter holidays will hold for the Eumencan Society 6:45. H !
‘21—Attorney J. H. Sample, Asheville, boys and their friends. It might be well to Philantropic Society 6:45. H H
N.C. j /urge the sending of invitations to the event | Basketball, Wake Forest vs. D.C. H O H
'22—S. D. Story, Secretary and Treas-| now, because it is only a matter of weeks __, (Charlotte). 8:00. H 9 H
urer, Asheboro, N. C. now until April will be upon us. The Junior Friday— ener is H 4:00 oO clock Sunday afternoon the H
’23—L. W. Dick, Jr.. Woodberry For-/class is interested in the sharing of the oc-) : Baskethall, Guilford vs. D. C.,8:00 H e ° H
est School, Virginia. : | casion by every student and are making sure ! Saturday— H most dangerous hour in America H
'23—R. F. Davidson, McCaulay School,| that it will be an event that all the college | Basketball, Wake Forest vs. D. H H
Chattanooga, Tenn. | will enter into with pleasure. C., 8:00. ‘oi W H y 9 H
’23—W. A. Gamble, Union Theological Movcs: | ; a :
Seminary, Richmond, Va. _ PEABODY COLLEGE GUESTS } ‘Su"day— H
‘24H. G. Fenton, French Camp, Miss. | — | US atten Us aH H
‘26—T. B. Fidler, Beresford, Fla. three days, during which time-numerous re- C. E. Training Class, LEMS: H McAlister Carson Manager (13) H
ceptions ‘of various kinds were held. The Ministerial Bandy 2:00. . NB
ALUMNI TRUSTEES academic processions of the Peabody stu- | “Y" Service, 6:15. Insurance Department
; ee dents and faculty were very beautifut-and ex- | Tuesday—- eae Independence Trust Company
The following is a list of names of|ceptionally well designed. A large part of | Metrophilian Society, 6:45. Charlotte, N.C.
alumni now members of the Board of|the time was taken up in speeches made by | Pandeinic Society, 6:45.
Trustees of Davidson College which met | some of the invited guests” a0: |

