6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

Dramatic Club to Stage |

BLUE RIDGE SWIMMING POOL*

Plays at Commencement '

|
Three One-Act Plays Scheduled for |
Presentation During |
Commencement |

Beare |

On Monday night of Commencement week |
the Dramatic Club will present three original |
one-act plays by Davidson students.

These plays, by three members of the
class of 26, have been gone over carefully
by Professor Erwin and considered by him
excellent enough to be presented by the
Dramatic Club at Commencement.

The play, “On With the Show,” by Fred
Smith, was given at a private rehearsal be-
fore the Dramatic Club and an audience of
about 100 persons and received much favor-
able comment by. all present. “The Twain
Meet,” by Hayden Hollingsworth, and
“Holly Too,” by Paul Freeland, have not had
a showing, but at the rehearsals the judges |
commended the actors upon their ability to so!
well portray the characters. |

The plays, with their characters, are as |
follows:

MOLLY TOO

By Paul Freeland
Molly bilercsecuccssesesn ee Letitia Currie
Ratvablleteoccsssccasanes Mary Thompson |
Hampibiletccsoccacennasnee Ben Ratchford |
SelnacWlet wcsvececacausas Johnsie Shelton
Lem Dancy -- ---Paul Freeland |
TomvAllén cess ccssessuL.3 D. G. Wilson |
Scene—A mountain home.

ON WITH THE SHOW
By Fred Smith

Socooen ate Clanton Williams
tits oS sega Simril Bryant

Compilation of statistics by the Biology

lub of 400 questionnaires filled out by stu-
dents of Davidson College show that in the
minds of the students here “moral character”
is the leading requisite for a prospective wife.
The students also. indicated that the “ideal
family” consisted of three children, the aver-
age family consisting of 2.5 boys and 1.8

Smiley, a clown
Toto, a clown

BdiaWihitlowscsas-sccncecuses Chester Monk | girls,

Ringmaster 22220 cc cosets Philip Cox} The Biology Club recently delivered ques-

Louise, a bare-back rider ~---42--------- |tionnaires to the Davidson students, similar
Se eae coeiecnvassos Mrs. F. G. Hengeveld | to those given out at the University of Mis-

 Caltheteewsanseecsessuaes Mattie Maclemore | sissippi and other schools. The question-

Scene—Dressing room of Whitlow's Great | naires were designed to determine the per-
National Circus, | centage of students who prefer to marry, the
THE TWAIN MEET | average size of the family desired, the objec-
By Hayden Hollingsworth | tions to marriage and the average kind of

Mr. Gregory —-----.--...-- Benton Wharton nue desired by the students. ¢
Mr. Armstrong Arthur Martin | Hadi fe cent chs the lt) png
Lat Wang jout the questionnaires signified their inten-

Beer tions to marry when circumstances permitted: |
Martha Gregory Nina Holt White |. ae stances p ‘
Scene—The living room jn Mr. Gregory

,.| Nineteen of the 400 students stated that their
home,

Si. . : oye .
| views concerning the desirability of matri-

|mony have changed since entering Davidson
| College.- The degree of change varied from
| only a slight change to a definite one in favor
| of matrimony. Only one student signified

(Continued from page 1) that he had decided not to marry since en-
| tering Davidson.

sent the following one-act plays: ‘“The} Fi ‘ 5

Twain Meet,” by A. H. Hollingsworth: | The questionnaires were filled out by mem-
“Molly, Too,” by Paul B, Freeland; and bers of all classes at Davidson, 170 Freshmen
“On With the Show,” by C. F. Smith. The_| handing them in, while 90 came from the

SEN IORS ARE INTERESTED

exercises for Monday will close with the | Sophomore class, 75 from the Junior and 65 |

general fraternity receptions which will be from the Senior class. The average age of |
held at 10 o'clock | these men was 19.2 years,

Biology Club Compiles Interesting Facts
of Student Views on Matrimony and Wives

Banquet Held for
Sophs son Tuesday

The class of '27 met at the Maxwell
Chambers Hotel on last Tuesday nigt for
an hour or two of feasting and entertain-
ment as well as for other matters. Bill Cov-
ington, the retiring president of the class,
carried out a short and peppy program before

Jim Pinckney was inaugurated as the new!

president.

The Kiser
Sophomore class, gave two or three enter-
taining selections, only to be called back for
as many more. ‘Warhoss” Hudgins, with
his harmonica quartet and silver-toned Ha-
waiian harp, rendered his famous diddy,
“Bloody War.” Don Wharton, who was
athletic editor of The Davidsonian this past
year, then enumerated the many accomplish-
ments of the class of ’27, making special
mention of those earning places on the
various varsity athletic teams.

The class also had several matters of busi-
ness to discuss, foremost of which was the
plans.for the day when the Freshmen would
be allowed to take off their caps.
tian, who is chairman of the committee for
the plans for Soph Day, assured the class
that the Freshmen would be properly and
ably handled on that day.

Covington gave a review of what the class
had been doing and for what it had stood be-

| fore turning over the meeting to Pinckney, | Once every four years, to enable every class
‘ lear fine “4 ; Watt | the new president. Pinckney then spoke to | to hear her once.
The Board of Trustees will mect at 9:30). Following “moral character” which led the | Pp y po! |

-|ers and each has been on like deputations at |

Brothers, the pride of the}

Chris- |

|

‘Students go to Concord |
- for Final ‘Y’ Deputation

Branch, Barr, Williams and Moore |
i to Speak at Concord High
School

The last deputation of the year will be the >
one which gocs to the Concord High School
Saturday and Sunday of this week. Concord

; has been wanting a group of Davidson men
{to talk before her high schohol and Hi Y
Club for some time and it was at the request |
| of Wallace Moore, a former Davidson man
| who is now teaching in the high school there,
| that it was decided to send the deputation at |
| this time. |
| . The boys who will bring the talks to both
|high school and Hi Y club are Harllee |
| Branch, Tom Barr, Jim Moore, and Clancy !
| Williams. These men are all veteran speak- |

ustoneof many! The others
ar fully as desirabl — foot-
wear for any requirement, any
occasion, & reasonably priced.
You ar cordially invited to

come and look ’em over!

On Display By

Mr. A. M. Shimmon
at Honor Store
May 19 and 30

ons thoes

INCORPORATED e—? REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

Orders, 191

|some former time.

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. has been pe-
| culiarly interested in the high schools and |
| Hi Y clubs in the surrounding country this |
| year and has done some very fine work in|
| helping these organizations. It has been the
policy of the “Y” to send men on these |
deputations who represent the various phases

Brooklyn, Newark
‘Address for Mail
tt, New York City

|of college life here at Davidson; for in-
| stance one athlete, one interested in debate,
| another in journalistic work and others who
j are well acquainted with the curriculum.

STRIKING MESSAGE BROUGHT
| ————

Champion Electric
Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town

Shoes Repaired While
U Wait

W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

| (Continued from page 1)
| places. What a wonderful confidence is

| mother’s love. She expects each of you to)
| lead the true Christ-like life. It is the hold-!
| ing power of a mother’s love that guides you

in all your hours of temptation.

“Write regularly to your mothers, your
| letters are her treasures. Even now she is
| waiting for that Mother's Day message. Tell
her that you love her, she knows it, but tell
her again. Tell her that you are striving
to build up your character into whatever she
wants you to be. You once depended on her,
now she depends on you. Don’t disappoint
her. Be as faithful to her as she has been
to you.

“This Mother's Day is a wonderful ex-
pression of filial love. There are some sons
here to whom mother is only a rich and
sacred memory. Your mother believes that
Davidson College is a safe college for her
son because it is a Christian college. Do
your part to make it a safe place for every
mother’s son. ‘Honor thy father and thy
| mother that the days may be long in the
| land that the Lord thy God giveth thee.’ ”
| The “Y” was extremely fortunate in ob-
| taining such a speaker as Mrs.’ Robson on

such an occasion, since no one knows the
| boys as she does. Mrs, Robson only speaks

Variety is the Keynote in

MEN’S CRAVATS FOR
SPRING

Every wanted silk is here,
patterned with taste and indi-
viduality in the manner favored
The
colorings are of exceptional

beauty---colors that add _ that

by well-dressed men.

final touch which is so essen-

tial to the correctly dressed
The vespers were opened by a song service 8

if te ; y dialities 3 ; ; ive | the class of those things for which Davidson | i ;
Tuesday morning. One of the major events| list of desirable qualities in the prospective | gs ic y And as wide a selec-

man.

of»Commencement will be the annual literary | wife, oan “disposition” and “health? with
address by Dr. J. R. McCain, president of | “isposition leading by aoe SD
Agnes Scott College, at 12:15. Dr. McCain) Anterest we religion, ppatueal aid eel)
is a graduate of Erskine College and has re-| ability, ‘education and “willingness to rear |
ceived post-graduate degrees from Mercer | * family’ ware the Suly corner qualities i
University, the University of Chicago, and | find their way into the first seven desired.
Columbia University. He is the founder of | The placing of “health third, and the high
the Darlington School, at Rome, Ga., and has | ™2t"8 os ORT ae pa EEE shy
been associated with Agnes Scott College | show that the Davidson students are follow-

had always stood and of the important part | led by S. F. Bryant. This was followed by
the Junior class of next year would have to| Prayers by Jim Appleby and W. L. Lyerly.
play in keeping Davidson what she is and) ©. F. Monk read the 13th chapter of I Cor-
making her better. inthians for the scripture lesson, substituting
| the word “mother” for every place the word
| “charity” occurred which made the reading
| very beautiful and impressive. D. G. Wilson
| sang a solo, “Mother o’ Mine,” after which
| Mr. J. P. Williams introduced the speaker,

DRAMATIC CLUB WILL

(Continued from page 1)
by all bonafide members. It is believed that

since 1915 in the capacity of registrar, pro-
fessor of Economics, vice-president, and
president.

The annual alumni luncheon will be held
at 1:30 o'clock, and will be followed by a
meeting of the Alumni Association. A re-
ception by the Faculty will be held at 5:00
p.m. Then at 8:00 o'clock will come the ex-
ercises of the literary societies, at which time
the society diplomas, tropies and medals will
be awarded. As a part of this exercise the
finals of the. Senior Oratorical Contest will
be held, the speakers being D. B. Wharton,
F, A. Hopkins, A. C. Ray, and H. B. Price.
At 10:30 the presentation of the Senior Class
Feature will take place, which will close the
exercises for Tuesday. All details of this
feature will be kept secret until it is present-
ed, but something interesting is doubtless in
store. Piggy Martin is chairman of the com-
mittee in chatge of this part of the program.

The climax and final event-of the week
will be the graduation exercises at 10:30
Wednesday morning, when 82 Seniors will
receive their Jongcoveted diplomas, and the
collegemedals will be awarded. The regular
valedietorian and salutatorian have not been
announced yet, but there is little doubt as to
who the yaledictorian, will be. The lowering
of the class flag as the graduates sing ‘“Col-
lege Ties” will bring to a dramatic close the
89th Commencement of Davidson College,
and at the same time Davidson will send out
a splendid bunch of men fully capable: of
upholding her established reputation as a
Producer of great men.

| ing the general trend toward eugenicist ideas.
| Surprising to many was the announcement
j that “family connections” was rated higher
than “beauty,” these two coming eighth and
ninth on the list. Following closély behind
these was “housekeeping ability.”

The comparative low place that “social
ability” was given seemed to indicate that
the social butterfly or flapper is not particu-
larly desirable for a leading characteristic of
a prospective wife.

One of the biggest surprises revealed was
that “wealth” was placed fifteenth in the list,
showing that theoretically a man loves a girl
and not her money. However, the husbands
must consider themselves quite expert finan-
ciers, the “business ability” of the wives be-

The following is the composite rating of
the 400 questionnaires, the qualities indicated
being the 19 that were placed on the blank
forms to be numbered in the order of pref-
erence by the individual student:

Moral character.

Disposition.

Health.

Interest in religion.

Natural and mental ability. _.
Education.

Willingness to rear a family.
Family connections.

Beauty.

Housekeeping ability.

SP MPNAMSA?AWN HE

i"

ing placed even nearer the bottom of the list. ,

this will promote the best interest of is

club, and will make for a keener rivalry
among those new men who desire to display
their histronic ability.

Smith stated that he would endeavor to}

make the Davidson Dramatic club an or-
ganization of more importance than it has
been. He said that he thought that this

college has just as good material as the!

University of North Carolina, whose or-
ganization, the Carolina Playmakers, have
won nation-wide fame for their excellent
portrayal of family life in the Carolinas.
Plans are being made to have the Dramatic
club take a tour of the state, with a pro-
gram of original plays, such as were present-
ed this year. The Playmakers have met
with a signal success on the many trips that
they have taken.

Smith has written three of the five plays
that have been presented this year, includ-
ing a farce given at the Junior Speaking
entertainment. He has taken a lively inter-
est both in the writing and acting of the
plays that have been put on before Davidson
audiences, Deck has appeared in several
plays, his characterization of comedy and old
men part being especially good.

_ Ambition.
Social ability.
Fondness of sports.
Wealth.
Mutual intellectual interests.
Business ability. ;
Native state or section of the country.

-_
_

Artistic or social ability.

Attitude on woman suffrage.

|

| CALENDAR
ean
THURSDAY
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary So-
| ciety.
SATURDAY

“CAP DAY.”
Senior Examinations begin.
7 :30—Movies in Gym,
SUNDAY
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—"Y" Vesper Service.
TUESDAY
7 :15—Pandeinic Literary Society.
7 :15—Metrophilian Literary Society.

tion as is to be found in the

city---from both foreign and

domestic looms.

Foulards Suskanas

Poplins Crepes

Moires

4

Basket Weaves

Repps

Knits

$1.00 to $3.50

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For
Davidson Men

+
