THE DAYVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

| interesting, and highly suitable, as.Prag-
|matism is perhaps the chief movement in
present day Philosophy.

Missionary Study Classes Pragmatism Made Topic

Town News Successfully Concluded at Philosophy Meeting

Wildcat Hall of Fame

On Monday evening Miss Marjorie J. W. STUART GILCHRIST D*** | Number of Subjects Discussed— Various Aspects of Theory Consid- Since 1868
Reed. was hostess to twelve young] J. W. Stuart Gilchrist is the worthy Regen in Charge of Group | ered—Papers Read by Houston THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES
gentlemen and eleven young ladies of|occupant of a niche in the Wildcat hall | Next Year and Wharton

the high school set. of fame. |

The Philosophy Club held its regular
bi-monthly meeting Thursday night, |
April 23rd, in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall.
The subject of discussion for the night
was Pragmatism.

The program included an analysis of
John Dewey's Pragmatic philosophy,
with its relation to the theory of know]-

He excelled in many branches of cam-| The annual series of Discussion Groups
pus activity but especially in track. He|held by the Y. M. C. A. closed dast week |
was for four years a member of the after a two months’ period of successful
varsity track team and for two years, | study of the theme Missions, The attendance
manager and captain, four years leader | at these meetings held on each hall on Wed-
of his class track team, and for a time | nesday nights has been fair, averaging ap-
the holder of the college record for the | proximately 200 each night.
220-yard dash. He showed up well in| In the opinion of those in charge, these

GOOD SHOES
STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants
to be well shod all the
time.

Good weather or bad, for

The ladies of the auxiliary of the
Presbyterian Church held their annual
birthday celebration on Thursday last.
The ‘offering of nearly one hundred dol-
lars, wil go to the Charlotte Kemper
school in Brazil, The auxiliary was ad-
dressed by two personal friends of Miss

Kemper, Mrs. Lingle of Davidson, and] other branches of athletics also; gym | groups had a marked effect on the drive for | edge, and also its value as a test of stunts or classes, there’s
Mrs. Thompson of Atlanta. team, three years; class football, Basket-j the Hangchow fund, which recently went) truth. This was given excellent atten- ho feeling quite so satis-
ball, and baseball, three years each. He | over the top. A general atfitude of serious-| tion in a paper

prepared by C. E.

factory as the feeling that
“T look all right.”

Gilmer-Moore Shoes as-
sure you of that feeling.
Always good looking, al-

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss
Mamie Withers on Friday afternoon.
Miss Maude Vinson read a splendid paper
on Queen Victoria.

was secretary and treasurer of the “D”| ness toward missions seems to preyail-on the

| Houston.
ry |
club for two years. j campus as a result.

Following this, and after some discus-
by the club, D. B. Wharton read,
another paper on Pragmatism, in which
certain values and shortcomings of this

He was also a mem-
her of the executive committee of the! These groups were supervised by leaders
athletic council. |who led the discussion, though cach man

Not only in athletics was he an out-/ present was at liberty to take part at any

sion

Mrs. W. N. Mebane entertained at tea | standing figure but he also played atime he desired. Dr. C. M. Richards, Pro- | tendency in modern philosophy were re- ways stylish.
on Wednesday afternoon, in honor. of|Prominent part in literary and oratori- | fessors Foreman, Fleagle and Wachter, and | yjewed., ; GILMER-MOORE co
her grandmother, Mrs. Killian. When|cal work of the campus. He was on/ Mr. J. P. Williams vialsts with the leaders in) Phe subject under discussion was both | z
the cake was served, the pink candles|The Magazine staff and Quips and | advance and each one of these men gave the CHARLOTTE

Cranks staff for several years; a mem- leaders instruction in one of the topics to!
ber and office holder of the Phi Society, | be taken up later in the classes.

member of the Blue Pencil Club, and| Some of the subjects discussed were: “The |
student councilman, and a Gryphon (An, Trend of Missions in America ;” “Our (Da-
organization for the promotion of good | Vidson’s) Responsibility ;” “The Spread of |

revealed the fact that this was a birthday
celebration,

FRESHMEN MAKE AN EVEN

LUGGAGE

Among those who attended the meet-

(Continued from
ings of the Academy of Science, in Ra-

page 2)

t feeling between the classes and the up-| Christianity is the Only Thing that will White, wf -------------- Beaches) |
leigh last week were Drs, J, M. Douglas, building of a better college spirit.) maintain World Peace ;” “What has Chris-| Kidd, If ---------------- Dele 70: 308 10) 10)
and the retiring president, H, B; Ar- : E : | tianity accomplished where it has been given | Brantley, ¢ sesso oc2- Chit se of} 2) ir]
buckle, Professor Porter, Messrs. Thies Sie la fair trial;’ and “Qualifications of a Mis- | Bigger, Deaawounouseesaes Orel ole Gy Tat
and Mebane, Paul Patterson and James| UNIVERSITY TRACKMEN WIN | sionary.” e LPN Ro eer ere EN
Appleby were student representatives. —— | Next year, this branch of the work of the| Totals --------------- 41 13 14 27 10 4|
Sueeeque ie (Continued from page 1) )Y. M. C. A, will be in charge of E, K.| DAVIDSON FRESH AB RH PO A E}
Miss May Ellenwood has returned to] 9; highly interested spectators This | Regen, who has shown himself a capable | Harrison, rf --------_-- 3.0 0 2 0 0;
New York after a stay of several weeks aks Davideonn final meet of a Pe | worker this year in leading a group. | Kugler, SS ------------- 4023 °5 oO
in Davidson. fuleseason | Bee tb -- 5 1 310 O-1 r
Se 9, ‘ : i SNEG: LE | Johnson, cf ----- mG OF 2 i Ol €
Rey. Mr. Clegg, pastor of the Metho- f a catia of the various events | Gees poe SUIS | Maulden, p-rf --4 90220 1|
dist Church, has been quite ill for sev- Caen fedesieont Ta, | (Continued from page 1) | Dulen, BU veeces A Ow @ 1 &)
eral days. Too-yard dash—Time, 9.9 seconds; Mc- | Magazine by C. Monk. Mr. Sz Tallis, | Bdgat, © ccccle = or o Oo}
: fee Std Pherson, Carolina, and Byrum, State, tied | 5 yi cules et anata Mie | eA ttay, Byes : Tey ‘ 3 0! One question that always
Mr. and Mrs. Maynard, of Waycross, for first; Rackley, Wake Forest, third; J. M. Saunders, of the University of North | Vick, If ---------------- 3 Oe © 4 arises in the mind of every
Ga., are visiting Mr. and Mrs, Henge-|Giersch, Carolina, fourth; Tucker, State, | Carolina, president of the Association, in his | MOON) aoo ee eee cee 0 0000 0| serious thinking college man
veld. fifth. address urged the publications to expand!Oden, p ------.------_-- 1-0 0 0 0 0; : i
120 high hurdles—Time, 15.3 seconds; |their scope and to print news of state and|xC, Cathey ------ pacwos 1 otr000 is, “What am I going to-do
Moore, Carolina, first; Clarke, State, sec-| national interest. He felt that the local|xxMcGeachy ----------- 10 000 0O| after: graduation or during
ond; Daniel, Wake Forest, third; Mc-]items were being over-emphasized in the | 5 SSS Se | vacation?” This is an im-
Yellow Cabs Pherson, Carolina, fourth; Yarborough, | college press. leclOtal Seen ununc sein oe 39 312 2710 4) portant question, worthy of

Are Good Cabs

Just Phone

Any Hour of the 24

Charlotte to Davidson
or
Davidson to Charlotte

YOU’LL FIND THEM
ALWAYS ON THE JOB

Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.

Look For Our Private Phone

in Brown’s

We Invite Your

Business

LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE
TRUST CO.

“ON THE SQUARE”

Carolina, fifth.

One mile run—Time, 4 minutes, 27 sec-
onds; Bell, Carolina, first; M: D. Ranson,
Carolina, second; Buchanan, Carolina,
third; P. J. Ranson, Carolina, fourth;
Wright, State, fifth.

440-yard* run—Time, 52 seconds; Ed-
wards, Carolina, first; Watt, Carolina,
second; Sides, State, third; Sherman,
State, fourth; Hackney, Carolina, fifth.
220-yard dash—Time, 22 .second; By-
rum, State, first; Goodykoontz, Davidson,
second; McPherson, Carolina, third;
Rackley, Wake Forest, fourth; Tucker,
State, fifth.

220 low hurdles—Time, 24.4 seconds;
Moore, Carolina, first; Giersch, Carolina,
second; Daniel, Wake Forest, third;
Huggins, Carolina, fourth; Clarke, State,
fifth.

880-yard run—Purser, Carolina, first;
Redmon, Duke, second; Goodwin, Caro-
lina, third; Daniels, Carolina, fourth;
Lambeth, Carolina, fifth.

Pole vault—Height, 11 feet; Pridgen,
State, first; McFayden, Carolnia, and An-
derson, Davidson, tied for second; Cor-
bett, Carolina; Roberts, Duke, and
Parrish, Wake Forest, tied for fourth.
High jump—Height, 5 fect 9 inches;
Calhoun, Davidson, and Matthews, State,
tied for first; Beverly, Duke, third; Am-
brose, Carolina, fourth; Morris, State,
fifth.
Shot

put—Distance, 41 feet, 11 1-2
inches; Ripple, State, first; Fordham,
Carolina, second; Williams, Carolina,
third; Caldwell, Duke, fourth; Jenkins,
Carolina, fifth.

Discus throw—111 feet 7 1-2 inches;
Fordham, Carolina, first; Lamb, State,
second; Black, State, third; Cook, State,
fourth; Umberger, Duke, fifth

| Javelin throw—Fordham, Carolina,
Arett distance, 163 feet, 11 1-2 inches;
| Ripple, State, second; McComb, David-
json, third; Jenkins, Carolina, fourth;
peasbee: Carolina, fifth.

| Broad jump—Distance 21 feet, 4 inches;
Ambrose, Carolina, first; Daniel; Wake
Forest, second; Woodard, Carolina, and
McMillan, Davidson, tied for third; Prid-
gen, State, fifth.

In the open discussion, which followed, |
problems of circulation, financing, reporting |
and faculty supervision were dealt with, the |
latter problem receiving the most attention.

Mr, J. A. Parham delivered an address on |
“College Students and the Newspaper.” |
“Newspaper work is the most thrilling busi-
ness in the world,” he said. He emphasized
that it was real hard work which had as its
aim getting the new things first and present-
ing them so as to. please the majority of the
public. In his closing remarks Mr. Parham
advised the editors to watch the daily. papers
constantly and to keep up with the latest
things in journalism,

On Saturday morning the following offi-
cers, were elected: EE. G. Moore, of State
College, president; W. E. Milton, of David-
son, first vice-president; Miss Eleanor Ven-
jneman, of N, C. C. W., second vice-presi-
jdent; Miss Ruth Efird, of Salem College,
secretary, and Miss Dixie Hines, of Greens-
boro College, treasurer,

In the selecting of the best college news-
paper’ and magazine, Which is done at each
convention, The Davidsonian was chosen the
best newspaper in the state, and the Archive,
of Duke University, as the best magazine.
The same choice was made at the convention
at Guilford last fall.
|, The invitation of the University of North
Carolina to entertain the Association next
November was accepted.

The executive committee in its report rec-
ommended that The Carolina Magazine, of
the University of North Carolina, be rein-
stated into full membership in the Associa-
tion and that a certain part of the income of
the Association be given the publication en-
tertaining the convention to help defray the
expenses. Both of these recommendations
met the approval of the delegates.

The resolutions committee presented two
resolutions which wre adopted by the con-
vention. The first was that the convention
go on record as being opposed to faculty cen-
sorship of the college press. The second was
an appreciation of the hospitality of the Da-
vidson publications in entertaining the con-
vention.

The treasurer’s report showed the Associa-
tion on a sound financial basis.

The address of the morning was delivered
by Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Education

x Hit for Vick in nifith.

xx Batted for Oden in ninth.

Summary: Two-base hits, C. Cathey, |
Three-base hits, White; home runs, Me- |
Dowal, Kengall; sacrifice hits, none;
stolen bases, Bigger, Kidd, Maulden;
double plays, Kugler to McAulay to Ar-
rowood; base on balls, off Bigger 1, off
Poole 2, off Maulden o, off Oden 0; hits,
off Bigger 12 in 9 innings with 3 runs, off
Maulden 7 with 4 runs in 61-3 innings,
off Poole two with 5 runs in o innings,
off Oden 5 with 4 runs in 22-3 innings;
losing pitcher, Maulden; umpire, Henge-
veld; time, 2.05.

°

and Psychology at Davidson College. His
subject was “The Psychology of the News
Item,” and he dealt with this from the stand-
point of both the reporter and the reader. |
Items relating to the family, inventions, com- |
petitions, pride, self-assertion, sociability, and |
acquisition, arouse the most interest in the |
reader, he stated. He pointed out the im-!
portance of the first sentence in an article
calling it the index Where the reader should
get his information, the body being the place
for details, He stated that the item should be
clear, intelligent and above all should convey
the right impression.

The Davidsonian, official organ of the!
Davidson student body, received a big ma-
.jority of the votes cast; and was declared |
the best college paper in North Carolina.
This is the second time in two years that |
this honor has been accorded The Davidson- |
tan. The Duke University Archive was |
chosen as the best magazine.

|

serious consideration.

In a very definite way the
life insurance business offers

ou the opportunity for suc-
iat In no field is there a
greater chance for the college
man.

Write torus for particulars.

LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.

A. W. McALISTER
PRESIDENT

H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

CENTRAL

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest

HAT SHOP

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

mber Mother With Candy

White Dru
Company
