THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

Baker and Sappenfield
Go to Annual Conclave

New Chambers Building

of Federated Colleges

Two Student Body Officers at |
Florida Convention—Baker |
Speaks on Athletics

N. E. Sappenfield and T. S. Baker, |
President and Vice-President of the|
Student Body, attended the annual con- |
vention of the Southern Federation of |
College Students held at the University |

of Florida on Thursday, Friday and Sat- |

urday of last’ week in Gainesville, Fla.
All of the leading colleges and univer-
sities of the South are represented
this association.

in
The Federation was formed with the
intention of following a definite program
taking up the many and varied problems
which arise in every college, to find out
how these problems are handled at other
schools, and to generally foster better
and closer feeling among the schools of
the South. Each year a schedule of the
most important problems of the past
year is mapped out and followed. Every
representative brings up the problems
most prominent in his particular school
and the other problems most prominent
in his particular school and the other
delegates tell how this problem is met
and controlled at their schools. In this
way an insight of the control and goy-
ernment of other schools is obtained that
could be had in no other way. Baker
spoke to the convention Saturday morn-
ing on the subject of “Athletics.” In his
talk he denounced the evil of paid col-!
lege athletics.

|

These problems cover every phase of
college and university life and the dis-
cussions cover such problems as Student
Government, Athletics, Religious Life on
the Campus, The Control of the Fresh-
man, The Honor System, The Promotion
of School Spirit, Student Publications,
Social Side of College Life and all other
Propositions of interest to
everywhere.

students

Davidson entered the Federation last
year and at last year’s convention, which
was held at the University of North Car-
olina, was represented by A. M. Hill-
hous, President of last year’s student
body and J. M. Hendrix, President of
the student body this year.

During the past year the Federation
was headed by Tom Baklentine, of the
University of Kentucky. C. F, Hoey of
N. C. State was vice-president and V, V
Morton of V. P. T. was secretary-treas-
urer, As the delegates to this year’s con-
vention have not returned the officers |
for the coming year and a full report on
the meeting cannot be obtained.

Sappenfield and Baker left for the con-
vention on Wednesday of last week and

are expected back either Tuesday or
Wednesday of this week.

WILDCAT ORATORS VICTORS

(Continued from page 1)

B. U. Ratchford ably maintained that the
court should not have this power for a num-
ber of potent reasons. His argument was a
vital factor in his team’s victory.

D. D. Edmunds’ of P. C., continued his
first colleague’s assault on the affirmative’s |
plan and strikingly pointed out various de- |
fects in the affirmative thesis.

.H. L. Shaw, in his customary brilliant
style, skilfully showed the practicableness

of the affirmative proposition and concluded |
the main arguments for the Wildcats with |
a powerful resume of the affirmative’s points |

of proof;

J. D. McInnis, with telling force, pointed
out further dangers in the opponents’ propo-
sition and ended the negative proof with an
able summary of his team’s arguments.

* The rejoinders for both teams were sharp, |

pithy and keen. Each speaker in turn caught
the interest and sympathy of the audience.
Both teams exhibited the same admirable
fight so characteristic of the athletic heroes
of both institutions. Probably a more thor-
ough knowledge of the subject and a more
subtle coherent system of argument won the
decisive triumph for the Wildcats.

This victory gives the Wildcats an even
break in the forensic platform of the yéar,
the Davidson ‘debaters having bowed to
Emory during the past fall. A keen inter-
est is being manifested in the outcome of
the Wake Forest-Davidson struggle next
Friday evening when these two teams meet
at Queens College, in Charlotte, as it will
break this tie and will settle in one way or
the other, at least for a year, the friendly
rivalry between these two institutions,

{closed this humorous part of the talk

‘ter his last talk.

This picture shows how the New Chambers willlook when completed. The southern unit (right wing) 4s now under

French Author Talks to

Foreign Languages Class |

|
Students in Advanced French Heard
Noted Professor and Author
On Monday

The Davidson students of advanced
French’ had the opportunity of hearing
a noted author and instructor, Prof. A.
Vermont, a native Frenchman and teach-
er of French at Converse College, Spar
tanburg, give an interesting lecture in
his native tongue last Monday in Dr.
W. L. Lingle’s classroom. Prof. Ver- ;
mont -spoke three times to well filled
rooms w

The speaker is the author of two of
the best known textbooks of beginners’
French in circulation, “La Belle France”
and “Uax Etats Unis,” both of which |
are used at Davidson for first year stu-
dents. |

Prof. Vermont was introduced by Dr. |
Lingle in a short talk in French and the
Converse professor then spoke for 4o
minutes, including topics of a wide range |
of interest to the Students and profes-
sors. In the beginning of his talk he
told of the political divisions of France,
and spoke to some extent of the wealth
and of the present debts of his native
land. Prof. Vermont -won the admira-_
tion of the audience when he touched |
upon the social life in France and of the |
conditions in the home of a young lady
when a “jeune homme” called. The fair
damsel was always ably assisted in en- |
tertaining her “beau” by all the members
of the family. He said that under no
conditions was a young man allowed to
have an automobile for his own use, and

hy saying that he was much in favor of
the American way of filling “dates.”

Davidson College and the head of the
French department here came into much
praise by the speaker in his conclusion,
which was in English.

He stated that he had for a long time
wanted to’pay Davidson a visit and at
last this desire had been realized. He
claimed for Davidson that it was one of
the outstanding schools of America and
that a school was measured by the men
it graduated and that it was here that
Davidson excelled.

Prof. Vermont, traveling by motor, re-
turned to Spartanburg immediately af-

STUDENTS GO OVER TOP

| (Continued from page 1)

merve. Mr. Malcolm Lackhart, chairman of
the drive, concluded the talks‘ for Queens.
Speaking for the Hangchow fund, Hayden
Hollingsworth outlined the plans for using
{the money that was to be subscribed. Julian
| Briggs, student chairman of the Hangchow
| fund, also talked briefly on the subject. Jim
| Milhous, student chairman for the Queens
campaign, concluded the talks.

Many prominent Charlotte business men
| aided in the room-to-room canvass the two
|nights. These men were also prominent in
the headquarters work for funds in the
campaign. These men worked at the same
time the students were soliciting for the
Hangchow fund.

Some of the students who took an active
part in the room-to-room canvass were:

Jim Hendrix, Jim Apleby, Buck Shaw, W.
T. Covington, W. A. Christian, Harllee
Branch, W. R. Sparrow, Ernest Milton, Bob
McMillan, John Melton, Chang McIlwaine,
W..S. Woods, B. J. Alderman, Malcolm

|

Lockhart, Jr., Charles McIntyre, Willard
Keerans, and Colin Murchison.
“Jokes about old maids are in poor

form.”

;academic coWlege buildings in the south-
'ern states, will be started as soon as the

‘the magnificent new project.

construction. More than 11,000 people have contributed towards erection of this building

‘South Wing of the New
Chambers Building Now
Being Rushed to Finish

New Building Will Supply Long-
Felt Need for More Classroom

Space

After months of untiring labor, the
builders have almost completed the first
unit, or the south wing, of the new
Chambers Building. Construction work
on the entire building, which when com-
pletgd will be one of the most complete

3oard of Trustees sees fit to let con-
tracts for the remaining two units of

“At the present time, the finishing
touches are being added to the new south
wing; and college officials are hopeful
that at the next meeting of the Board
of Trustees in June, official sanction will
be given for the completion of the en-
tire building. If this is granted, work
will begin immediately on the north

staffs of The Davidsonia and the Davidson
College Magasine as hosts.

Continuing the meeting Saturday morning,
the delegates will complete the business of
the convention. The election of officers for
the coming term, a consideration of the appli-
cation made by the Rutherford College pub-
lication, The Chowamon, for membership;
and the selection of the leading college news-
paper and the leading college magazine are
especially important matters to be handled.
The past year The Davidsonian was awarded
the distinction of being the leading college |
newspaper in the association, and the Archive |
of Trinity College, the best magazine. |

The second address of the convention will |
be made Saturday morning at 11:30 by Dr. |
Fraser Hood, Professor of Education and
Psychology at Davidson College. He speaks |
on The Psychology of the News Item.” Dr.
Hood is one of the foremost psychologists |
in the country. He is also a lecturer, au-
thor, and director of various psychological
researches. He excells in fields other than |
education well. In the application of |
psychological methods to specialized inter- |
ests, he finds his particular field! The results
of his studies of journalistic psychology will
be revealed in this address.

as

wing and central portion, whch wlll con-
tain a modern auditorium, executive of- |
fices, professors studies, and class rooms.
The new auditorium, up-to-date in every’)
detail of the equipment, will remedy a
need that has long been felt at Davidson. |

The present wing, completion of which |
bas been delayed by inclement. weather |
and certain unavoidable delays, will be |
veady for occupancy by the beginning of |
the fall term. It is three stories in|
heighth, and contains twenty classrooms,
ten professors’ studies, and ten rooms to
be used as administration offices.

|

The south wing is complete now with |

the exception of a few finishing touches, |
that will be placed by the contractors |
within the next months. Following com. |
pletion of the actual construction work, |
the college officials will probably begin |
work on beautifying the surrounding |
grounds. The building will be thrown |
open for inspection by visitors during |
commencement, although the adminis- |
tration offices will not be moved from}
the present quarters until after the close |
of school. |
The beginning of the fall term will find |
the south wing fully completed and
equipped, and all administrative offices
and classrooms centered within its walls.

DELEGATES GATHER HERE

(Continued from page 1)

Friday morning at 9:00, President J. M.
Saunders, editor of the Tar Heel, will call
the meeting to order. J. M. Hendrix, as
president of the Student Body of Davidson,
will welcome the delegates, as will C. F. |
Smith, editor of The Davidsonian, and C. F. '
Monk, editor of the Davidson College Maga-
sine, in behalf of their respective publica-
tions. President J. M. Saunders will make |
the response and ‘will address the convention |
on the aims and purposes of the organization. |
Reports from the member publications will |
follow.

After a brief recess the meeting: will re-
convene at 11:30 a. m. to hear Mr. J. A.
Parham speak on “College Students and the
Newspaper.’ Mr. Parham, the managing
editor of the Charlotte Observer, is out-
standing among the journalists of this sec-
tion and as a keen observer of the
newspaper's extensive work will bring to the
members of the association enlightenment on
the perplexing phases of this subject.

The remainder of the first day will include
a baseball game on Richardson field in the
afternoon and an entertainment by the com-
bined Spanish Clubs of Queens and David-
son Colleges in the evening. As a climax in
the evening a banquet will be given at 9:30

“Well, the old maids usually are.”

at the Maxwell Chambers. Hotel, with the

The conclusion of the convention will come |
with a luncheon given by the Reporters’ Club |
at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.
music will enliven the gathering.

Special

The N. C. Press Association has grown |
rapidly since its organization in 1921. Its |
membership now numbers:21 publications in
16 colleges of North Carolina, The present |
Officers “are: J. M. Saunders, president, |
Carolina; Ruth Hoyle, -secretary, Greens-
boro; Agnes Efird, treasurer, Queens. |

The following are members of the asso-|
ciation: The Salemite, Salem College; The
Davidsonian, and The’ Davidson College
Magazine, Davidson; The Tar Heel, Uni-
versity of North Carolina; The Guilfordian,
Guilford College; The Trinity Chronicle,
Duke University; The Technician, North
Carolina State College; The Twig, and The
Acorn, Meredith College; The Carolinian,
and The Corroddi, North Carolina College
for Women; The Blues, Queens College ;

even a college laundry with-
out being laid up for repairs.

They’re cut amply full t

| Daverport Weekly, Davenport College; The

Message, Greensboro College; The Archive,
Duke University; Old Gold and Black, and
The Wake Forest Student, Wake Forest
| College; The Pine Needles, Flora Macdon-
jald College; The Lenoirian, Lenoir-Rhyne
| College; The Maroon and Gold, Elon Col-
lege.

At the time the paper went to press the
following had announced their intention of
attending: The Salemite, Misses May Hair-
ston and Ruth Efird; The Carolinian, Misses
Sam Davis’ and Eleanor Vannerman; The
| Chronicle, Messrs. R. E. Long and F. H.
Shinn; The Twig, Misses Dorothy McBrayer
‘and Lorene Warrick; The Lenoirian, Messrs.
| Jacob A. Seaboch and W. Edgar Mauney;
The Blues, Misses Ruth Starnes and Ila
Hoover; The Acorn, Misses Katie Dial,
Elaine Goode, and Margaret Wheeler; The
| Maroon and Gold, Mr. A. Richardson; The
! Davidson College Magazine, Messrs. C. F.
| Monk and R. B, Parker; The Davidsonian,
| Mesers. C. F. Smith, Harllee Branch, and
H. D. Burke.

Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld has returned
| home after a visit to her parents in Way-
| cross, Ga.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GOOD SHOES
STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants
to be well shod all the
time.

Good weather or bad, for
stunts or classes, there’s
no feeling quite so satis-
factory as the feeling that
“T look all right.”
Gilmer-Moore Shoes as-
sure you of that feeling.
Always good looking, al-
ways stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO.

CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

Champion Electric
Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town

Shoes Repaired While
U Wait

W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

SHIRTS OF
English
Broadcloth
$1.75

These are mighty
fine shirts, fellows
---made of excel-
lent quality Eng-

lish Broadcloth;
and they’ll stand
many a trip to

r)

Oo

insure comfort; and they’re

well made.

Made of white

only with or without collars.
WE PROMPTLY FILL ALL MAIL ORDERS

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For

Davidson’ Men

