FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

MARCH 26, 1925

No. 23

NICK SAPPENF

Fred Smith is Elected
Editor-in-Chief of the

Davidsonian by Students

Milton and Monk Two Opponents in
Race for Editorship

Is WELL QUALIFIED
Smith Has Had Experience in Jour-

nalistic Work—Auther of
Several One-Act Plays

C. F. Smith, the present managing editor
of The Davidsonian, was elected editor for
next year on the first ballot in the election
held Friday morning. W. E. Milton and
C. F. Monk, both assistant managing
tors, were the other contestants in the
torial race.

edi-
edi-
The election returns were
nounced by the present head of the paper,
C. M. S. Mcllwaine, between parts of the
Rudyard Kipling Recital given Friday night,
by Prof. Carl Wachter, for the benefit of
The Davidsonian,

All three men have been working steadily
on the paper since they entered college and
have risen steadily in the ranks until they
were chosen, from all the men in their class,
as the most competent for heading the
Livest Wire on the Hill. Any one of them
would have well filled the position for which
they were running.

The new staff will be appointed within the
next week by the editor-elect on the recom-
mendations of the old staff. :

Three years ago C. F. Smith came to Da-
vidson from Trenton, Tenn., and immedi-
ately began to work on The Davidsonian.
For about two months in his Freshman year,
he helped the press bureau and was then
promoted to doing regular reportorial work.
Before the end of the spring term, as a

(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Freshmen Win
Invitation Track Meet

Charlotte High, Runners-up—Lead
Big Field of Entries by Sub-
stantial Margin

The Davidson Freshmen won the high
school track carnival on Richardson field
Saturday afternoon by a narrow margin of
three points, Charlotte High running a close
second. The results are: Davidson 43,
Charlotte 40, Winston-Salem 17, Salisbury
13, Statesville 13, Greensboro 10, and Ox-
ford 7.

Incidentally the silver loving cup goes to
Charlotte as it was offered to the high school
making the largest number of points. The
outcome was undecided until the final event,
the relay, and it was in this that Currie, of
Davidson, again came out in the final lap,
winning the meet by the close score.

Currie was by far the most outstanding
runner of the day, winning the 100 and 220-
yard dashes, and in the final lap of the relay
he made a beautiful spurt and crossed the
line with a good lead: His time in the 100-
yard dash was 10 1-5 seconds. Fisher, of
Salisbury, was also in the limelight with his
distance running, winning the 880-yard and
the mile runs. He also shortened Davidson's
lead when he took the stick on the final lap
of the mile relay.

The pole vault attracted much attention as
Duncan, of Statesville, and McGeachy, of
Davidson, battled for first place, but the men
were to@ evenly.. matched, and the result was
a tie.

Charlotte showed best of the high schools
in almost every event, showing that they had
some good track men. Nesbitt and McMil-
lan, former Charlotte boys, showed up well
in the meet.

(Continued on page 7)

Tennis Tournament to
Select Members of Team

Plans for Successful Season Become
a Reality as Team Rounds
Into Form

The annual spring «tennis tournament
is now well under way with nearly half
of the matches played, and the rest to
be played off as soon as possible.

Davidson, this year, has been partic-
jularly fortunate in her athletics, having
}won well over three-fourths of all her
varsity games in every and, at
| present, we see no reason why the base-
| ball and track teams should not uphold
{this enviable record, And in’ tennis?
)Could it be possible that with a team

sport,

| composed of such stars as Price, Beall,
| Trotter and Staley, that this record be
broken? We say, “with such a team
composed of Price, Beall, Trotter and
|Staley.” At it seems that said
}team will have to play some wonderfully
|good tennis if they expect to eliminate
lsuch hands at the game as Mae Lock-
jhart, Crosland, Jimmy Wharton, Dick

Carr and others.

| The Freshman class has furnished a val-
juable list of athletes to Davidson this
{vear, and to tennis goes the honor of
|having drawn several of the best players
in the State. It is true that all four of
the regular team will receive their sheep-
|skins this year, and thus leave a gap in
our '26 varsity team, but we are assured
jof having an excellent team next year,
| that will, in no wise, let State
eae out of Davidson’s hands,

| The ‘tennis team has an
|schedule this spring, they leave the 27th
| of April on their northern trip, when
such representative teams as Maryland,
Annapolis, Virginia and others will be
played. Arrangements are being made
for a meet here with Duke University
the Monday following their return from
the northern trip.

present

honors

The State tournament will be held at
Chapel Hill this spring, the second week
in May, and, unless something unex-
pected turns up, the Davidson team will
uphold their previous records for fast and
winning matches.

visiting friends in Charlottesville, Va.,

Davidson this week.

BASKETBALL MEN GET
THEIR “D’S”

the basketball
team were awarded letters at a recent
meeting of the Athletic Council. The
members of the squad reeciving the
coveted “D" for their fine work
the cage team during the past season,
include :

Seven) members of

on

“Sook” Boggs, captain. 9
Flake Laird, captain-eleet.

Tom Anderson,

“Spee” MacConnell .

Tom Staley.

Mace. Beall.

Andy Hewlett.

Bub Oeland, manager,

Over Twenty Men
On Honor Roll As
Result of Labor

A checking of the grades for the first
semester of this year discloses the fact that
both the number of those making the honor
roll and the general average of the student
body show a decided increase over the cor-
responding figures for the 1923-24) term.
Twenty-three students made the honor roll.
The average of the entire student body was
83.69, per cent. This shows an advantage of
1.43 points over the same average for last
year’s fall term.
average ever made was in 1884-85,
of 84.88 was reached at that: time.

As usual the figures show the Senior class

An apex

| taking the lead with the under classes fol-

excellent ; lowing in their respective order,

Mrs. Moore McConnell who has been |

accompanied by her aunt will return to!

With 10
on the honor roll and several others
missing it by just a fraction of a point, the
class of '25 sets a precedent in its class aver-
age. The nearest approach to its mark was
made by last year’s class with its average of
87.82.

Here are the class averages for the first
semester of the 1924-25 session:

men

Senions Glass: sees ssoo eee ee 90.68
Junior Class ------ _-86.40
Sophomore Class ~--------------- 80.04
Breshmans Glass: 22 2 eae 77.64

While these class averages, with the ex-
ception of that for the Senior class, break
no records, they are in every instance better
than last year’s.

Of the 23 men on the honor roll Gne was
an M.A,, 10 were Seniors, nine Juniors, one
Sophomore, and three Freshmen.

(Continued on page 5)

These

The highest student body’

Phi Beta Kappa Elected

IELD ELECTED PRESIDENT OF STUDENT BODY

Highest Student Honor

Four Prominent Seniors; Goes to Football Star
Furches, Price, Wharton and Ram- In a Thrilling Election

sey Are Honored by Election to
Highest Fraternity
At a recent meeting of the Davidson chap-
ter of the Phi Beta Kappa, four new mem. |
from. the
This makes a total of seven members from

bers were elected Senior class.

the Senior class, three having been initiated |

last fall. Phi Beta Kappa is the highest
scholastic honorary fraternity in the country,
and those clected to membership are given
the honor as a recognition of their faithful
endeavor in scholastic lines.

Those elected into membership were D. B.
Wharton, H. B. Price, W. C. Ramsey and
C.S. Furches. Those cleeted earlier in the
year were M. W. Trawick, W. W. Puedy
and A, T. Rowe, Jr. All of these men have
a high scholastic standing as well.as a ree-
ord in connection with college activities.

D. B. Wharton is the outstanding debater |

of the Senior class, having served on the

regular intercollegiate debates for two suc. |

cessive years. As president of the Forensic
Council he has accomplished much in the way
of developing literary work at Davidson, He
is also a member of the Sigma Upsilon hon-
orary fraternity.

H. B. Price comes from a family of stu-
dents. Several of his brothers have attended
Davidson and all of them have made a high
record, Harry is president of the Y. M. C,
A., a member of the Philosophy club and en-
gaged in numerous college activities. In ad-
dition to this he has made a letter in tennis,
being one of the best tennis players in’ the
state,

W. C. Ramsey is a captain in the R. O. 7
C, and is head of the Court of Control, He
has applied himself with diligence to very
endeavor and has proved himself a capable
leader.

C. S. Furches has shown his ability in
class room work, and Vy faithfulness to duty
has made an enviable record. He was editor
of the “Y" handbook for 1924, By con-
scientious work he made himself eligible for
the honor conferred on him.

Phi Beta Kappa is distinctly a scholastic
fraternity, yet it encourages activity in vari-
ous departments of college life. All the men
elected are recognized as leaders in class
wotk as well as in the various phases of col-
lege activity.

Ten upper-classmen at the University

of Mississippi were recently expelled for
participation in a hair cutting party at
which Freshmen were the victims.

YOUTHFUL JOLLITY

Eighty-five Sophomores journeyed down
to the Queen City Thursday night and made
a big celebration of their halfway mark in
the college course. The banquet was at the
Chamber of Commerce. The hall was beau-
tifully and artistically decorated in the class
colors, gold and white, and with class pen-
nants and banners.

An excellent four-course dinner had been
prepared by the experienced chefs of the
Chamber of Commerce; and it was generally
agreed that ‘they knew their stuff.”

Harllee Branch, toastmaster, called on
Professor Foreman for the invocation, and
then the boys were busy for a few moments
with the first course. The program was
full of good talks, toasts, impromptu
speeches, and mixed in all were some good
jokes. Professor Brown spoke on “Loga-
leitims and Some Sophomore Attitudes ;”

PERVADES ATMOSPHERE OF QUEEN
CITY AS SOPHS CELEBRATE WITH JOVIAL BANQUET

Professor Foreman, the faculty advisor of
the class, gave a very inspiring talk on “The
Land of the Future.” R. S. Wilson made a
splendid speech that was both humorous and
serious; and Don Stewart gave an interest-
ing talk on “The Sand Glass of Time.” Other
guests to speak to the class were Dr. C. R.
Harding, Capt. Julian H. George, J. P. Hen-
drix, president of the student body, W. L.
Younger and S. D. Tilson, Davidson coaches,
and the presidents of the three other classes,
Julian Briggs, Senior; Buck Shaw, Junior;
and J. S. Foster, Freshman.

Music: was ‘furnished by members of the
class. The class quartet gave two numbers
that were greatly enjoyed. Those composing
the quartet are Bill Green, Clancy Williams,
Bill Christian, and D. M. Calhoun. Wil-
liam Rice and Hodgkin performed on the
ivory keys, the former furnishing the classi-
cal, and the latter the jazz. The Harmonica

Club rendered two or three numbers.

Toasts were made “To Davidson,” by J.
W. Keerans; “Twenty-Seven,” by J. P.
Pinkney; “Faculty,” by R. L. Mitchell, and
“Sweethearts,” by C. L. Norwood; all were
very good, but the last was particularly en-
joyed.

After the speeches and food were disposed
of the class went ensemble to the New
Broadway Theatre for the vaudeville. After
some delay, on account of the crowd, and
much merry-making, the class was admitted
to the show, which had an entertaining pro-
gram.

Tired and happy Sophomores pulled into |
the old college at all hours of the morning.
The campus had an entirely different view
from that of last year, very few rooms being
disturbed in their absence. And so ended
the most successful Sophomore banquet ever
held.

Four Men Nominated for Presidency
of Student Body

SAPPENFIELD POPULAR

Pinkney and Covington Chosen Vice-
Presidents—Melton Secretary
and Treasurer

In a run-over election, held last Thursday
morning, N. EE. Sappentield secured a ma-
jority of the votes cast, and was duly de-
}clared elected to the presidency of the stu-
dent body for the years 1925-26, James F.
Pinkney and W, TV. Covington, members of
the rising Junior class, were victorious in
the race for the vice-presideney,

The student
Tuesday morning, Mareh 16, with four men
on the ballot for the presidency, These men,
nominated by the Student Council, were: N.
Ik. Sappentield, T. S. Baker, I. K. Regen,
land Hl. S. Shaw. The first ballot: failed to
produce a winning candidate, but the list was
{narrowed down to the two leaders, Sappen-
field and Baker, Sappentield led the field on
the first ballot with 194 votes, and Baker fol
A
}was necessary, and it was in this race that
| Sappentield forged to the front with a total
of 266 votes, while Baker only increased his
original number to 188.

The race for the vice-presidency was
equally exciting. Four men, J. fF. Pinkney,
iW. T. Covington, W. A. Christian, and J.
|W. Keerans, were nominated by the Coun-
jeil; but the first ballot resulted in no ma-
jority for either of the candidates. The run-
over, in which Pinkney and Covington and

(Continued on page 7)

hody elections started on

slowed close behind with 152, run-over

Prof. Wachter Plesses i |
Large Crowd | in Concert

Masterful Interpretation of Kipling
Given—Mrs. Baker and Mr.

Neal Assist
Prof. Carl Wachter, assisted by Mr. Will
Neal and Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, of

Charlotte, presented in’ Shearer Hall, Fri-
day evening, March 20, a most successful re-
cital of the works of Rudyard Kipling. The
program was of two parts, each consisting
of six poems of Kipling, some of which had
been set to music.

Professor Wachter, since coming to Da-
vidson, has identified himself closely with
every movement and activity of the student
body, and his most evident showing of this
association came in this recial, the proceeds
of which are to go to The Davidsonian, He
is connected with the Public Speaking de-
partment and in that capacity has assisted
many boys in the: preparation of debates and
orations. He has gained for himself, both at
Davidson and away, little credit as a
speaker, reader and poet. His popularity and
force with the students needed no further
proof than the enthusiasm with which he
was received when first he came upon the
stage.

Mr. Neal and Mrs. Baker needed no in-
troduction to Davidson students. Both have
appeared in the past on the platform of
Shearer Hall as members of the Carolina
Concert Club, Mr. Neal has a remarkably
fine barytone voice and his rendering ‘of
Fussy Wussy, Mandalay and The Reces-
sional as solos won for him the appreciation
of every student in his audience. Besides
these songs he sang others as encores and in
response to the requests of some of his
hearers.

no

(Continued on page 7)
