THE DAVIDSONIAN, ocr OBER 15, 1925

Spirited Dicaion of
Church Problem by
Students on Wednesday

Professors Fleagle and Foreman Are
Leaders of Wednesday Night
Discussion Group—Enthusiastic

Meeting

“Modern Thought and Davidson Tradi-
tions” was the subject for discussion at the
first of a series of campus problems discus-
sion groups held Wednesday evening, Octo-
ber 7, at 9:00 o'clock. Under this topic the
main sub-topic was the question of com-
pulsory church attendance, which is of vital
interest to the students at this time. A very
spirited discussion took place place in which
both sides were defended; the majority of
opinion. was, however, against compulsion.
At 10 o'clock, the time of closing, the stu-
dents were enthusiastically trying to reach
some conclusion and were anxious to con-
tinue.

The topic discussed last Wednesday was,
“O What Does a True Colleges Success
Consist?” The question dwelt on most was,
Is popularity worth seeking ?

In order to provide for the students who
want to join in on these discussions two
groups have been formed, Professors Fleagle |
and Foreman each to have charge of one!
group. All the students whose names begin
with the letters from A to K met with
Professor Foreman in his class room in
Shearer the first night, and the rest of the
students with Professor Fleague in the
chapel. The next night this was reversed,

By this plan the students will be able to get | Queens; Louise Watson, New Orleans, | Black (c) --
| La.; Edith Dudley, Charlotte.

the different viewpoints of the two leaders.

The week before the groups started 30)
representative men of the student body were |
assembled to choose six topics which they |
considered the most vital and important, |
from the viewpoint of the students, to be
discussed one each week of the six weeks
the discussions are to be held. After careful
consideration six were chosen and one will
be announced a few days before each group
meeting,

R. B. Parker, who has charge of the
Bible study of the Y. M. C. A. for this year,
has adopted this plan. In the two previous
years the groups have been held on each
floor of the dormitories with a student leader.
The plan of having only two large groups
with a faculty member as leader adds the
advantage of a greater exchange of ideas.

Professors Fleagle and Foreman are two
of the most popular men on the faculty and

have won the confidence of the students. |

They have an unusual ability of seeing
things from the students’ viewpoint as well
as from their own. These qualifications
make them well suited for the position of

leaders of these groups. The discussions are |

carried on in the most informal manner pos-
sible with the leader introducing the subject

Practice on Mats

Will | Begin Early

|

Heretofore Davidson has waited until
after Christmas to start wrestling practice,
but this year Captain Weems, the wrestling
coach, hopes to start as soon after Thanks-
giving as possible. By beginning this early
,it is hoped that the team will be better than
in former years.

Plans are now under way to put down
the’ wrestling mats. They will occupy the
same room as last year. There will be two
large mats as before.

The team this year will probably meet,
among others, the Concord Y. M. C. A,,|
Carolina, North Carolina State, Duke Uni-
versity, the University of Virginia, and the
U. S. Naval Academy Plebes. However, the
schedule has not.yet been definitely arranged.

The nucleus for the team this year is
smaller than in former years. Among the
old men who are back are Frierson, Cox,
Barrington, and Vance. It is hoped that

|many from the Freshman class will try out!

for the team this year. There will be about
four positions to be filled.

Fraternity Guests

McConnelf=___---__ DWeLeeeslee Manning |

Vi aiCemar ers 1 Dy RES ep S Bielli

EOMithbowsteconucs lbGeescceseeuece Fuqua |

The following young ladies were fraternity GE pees Ge ee Dallas
guest last week-end: Tefever..... EL oWatord
Pyramid Club: Misses Louise Harry, Ritchie--.____ ----Dimarco |

Queens; Charlotte Guy, Charlotte; Althea |
Backinstow, Philadelphia, Penn.; Pete Reid,

Anita Wharton, Queens; Dolly Moore, |

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Clara Davis’
Parter, Charlotte; Elizabeth Wilson, Greens- |
boro, N. C.; Helen Delaney, Charlotte;
Nancy Little, Greensboro, |

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Mabel Rankin,
Gastonia; Virginia Hardee, Norfolk, Va.; |
Nancy Donnelly, Charlotte; Isabel Pharr, |

Charlotte; Elizabeth “Fowler, Charlotte;
Katherine Wooten, Charlotte; Dorothy
Aiken, Charlotte; Craigie Pegram, Char- |

lotte; Charlotte Crewes, Greenville, S. C.; |
Jule Fowler, Statesville; Elsie Fountaine, |
Tarboro, N. C.; Virginia Armstrong, Gas-
tonia; Elizabeth Lewis, Tarboro, N. C. |
Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Carolyn |
Booth, Queens; Elizabeth Moretz, Hickory;
Annie Barton McFall, Queens; Frances |
Steele, Queens; Mabel Huston McFall,
Queens; Bradley Thompson, Bluefield, W.
Va.; Catherine Fraser, Charlotte; Adde
Glasgow, Charlotte; Judy Wilkes, Charlotte; |
Alice Cilley, Hickory; Louise Garibaldi, |
Charlotte; Mary Stuart Menzies, Hickory ; |
Evelyn Martin, Queens; Katherine Brown, |
| Queens.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Nell Marsh,
Charlotte; Rachel Witherington, Greens-
| boro; Frances Moore, Rock Hill; Mildred

| the fighting Davidson team before them when
Janes’ punt was blocked in the fourth quar-
ter. A brilliant march down the field from
the 35-yard line brought the second Panther
touchdown.

| Although James figured prominently in
the plays that preceded each of the Panther
drives for touchdowns, he ° figured more
prominently when his long, spiralling punts
brought the Davidson team out of danger.
Oiten his opposing punter would take the

| wind to his advantages for an unusually long

kick, but James with or against the brisk
breeze was good for 40 and 45 yards time,
after time. He was easily“the star of the
' Davidson team, just as Panqua was of his
eleven,

Riggs McConnell on the end of the Da- |}
vidson line played a consistently good game
as defensive end, while Monk did well till he
went out with an injured rib. Wenburg show-
ed. promise of genius as a quarter once when |
he gained 70 yards by puntng on the second |

down even though against the then peut

wind,

On the line Vance showed good work, but
though fighting valiantly at times, the Wild-
kittens could not stand the pace set by the
heavier Panther forwards.

Line-up and summary :

Davidson (0) High Point (14)

Position,

Monk-___----
Wenburg

----Peterson
biuawaweenn Gleason

Hedick
Pankau

Substitutions—Davidson: Myers for Kell;

PaMes=os cee cose ae es

Kink for Myers; McClure for Mank; Leit- |

wick for Vance; Homegreen for Smith.
High Point: Heath for Hedrick; Rogers for
Heath; Johnson for Peterson; Ferree for
Fuqua; Hauser for Dallas; Hamlet for
Warford; Wright for Hamlet; Finch for
Rogers; Peterson for Johnson; Foust for
Finch; Hedrick for Foust; Heath for He-
drick; Wright for Diamarco; Ridge for
Fuqua; Hill for Johnson; Dimarco for
Finch; Hauser for Dallas. Umpire: Me-
Intosh (Massachusetts Aggie); headlines-
man: Caldwell (Davidson); timekeeper:
Marlette (Elon).

Sold in 102 Countries !

Waln-Cver

“The largest-selling trade-marked style
shoes in the world’’

BIDS EXTENDED TO THREE

(Continued from page 1)

|a member of the Eumenean Literary Society
| and an inter-collegiate debater. He was a
;member of the team in the Wake Forest de-
bate last year. Harllee has also been a very
valuable man on the Davidsonian. He is
now managing editor of that publication.
These men have been signally honored be-
| cause of the fact that Alpha Phi Epsilon had
| so much good material to pick from and also
| because this is the only fraternity of its kind
fon the hill. The purpose of this organiza-
{tion is to honor leaders in forensic endeavor.

For dress, campus, golf and formal
wear *
$7, $7.50, $8, $8.50
Sole Agents

SULLIVAN BROS., 204 West

Samples showing today---and every
day! Factory service
Glee Clubbers, may we furnish your
shoes? Drop in, look them over

eee

; |
pee Bess Kennedy, Oxford, N.° C.;) Kell----------_____ LB eens Method ey WALTER CULBRETH CO.

|| We are always glad to have the Davidson

| boys come to see us when in Statesville

| VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

and trying to encourage the members of his| Morrison, Greensboro; Mary Mills Ham, |
group to express their thoughts. He does | Charlotte; Nina Shaddock, Converse; Alice |
not take either side but endeavors to answer | Barbee, High Point; Lib Hayden, High,
any questions that may come up. | Point; Bertie Fowler, Lexington; Katherine |
| Menzies, Hickory; Charlotte Milstead, Char-
lotte; Josephine Thompson, Greensboro; |

| Adelaide Harris, Concord; Ruth Cannon, |

ORPHANAGE HEAD SPEAKER

In an isolated region, almost inaccessible
in winter, this 6500 h.p. hydro-electric
plant located on the Deerfield River in New
England, starts, protects, and stops itself.

(Continued from page 1)

to try themselves, so they remain on the
side-line achieving nothing.

“The fact that in all the world no two
thumb prints are alike, argues that no two
persons are alike; and from the fact that no
two persons are alike, we may reason that
every man is endowed to do some particular
work better than another can do it.” “The
Pretty side of life lies in the finding of one’s
work and in the positive doing of it.” “The
unpleasant side of life lies in refusing to take
the opportunities that one has.” “Suppose
Paul had never gone into Macedonia.” “Eu-
rope would no doubt have never had its
Christian religion. for years to come.”

“Be eager to take advantage of your op-
portunities,” counselled the speaker. ‘“Na-
ture and God don’t have to hurry.”

Mr. Johnston urged his hearers to start

preparing for their professions now. “For,” |

said he, “preparation determines success in a
crisis.” “Get yourself a job and see how
much over and above the amount required
you can put into it.” It is those who do
this who really achieve success.”

“Generally speaking,” Mr. Johnston de-
clared, “there is nothing to all this talk about
a man’s reaching the top through pull. Men
are at the top because they worked for it and
deserve to be there.”

“Fall in love with your work, cultivate the

| Concord.

| Kappa Alpha: Misses Alice Gibbons, |
'Charlotte; Lucy Heath, Charlotte; Jean |

Craig, Queens; Winifred Pegram, Charlotte; |
| Ruth Hardin, Charlotte; Frances Coleman, |
| Winston. |

| Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Elizabeth |
| Newell, Greensboro; Wilmer Cook, Wil-|
|mington; Margaret Caldwell, Wilmington; |
| Virginia Reed, Concord; Jennie Brown,
| Concord; Margaret Smith, Charlotte; Elsie |
Brown, Charlotte; Nannie Craver, Char- |
\lotte; Alice Dunklee, Winston-Salem; Mary |
Leake Neave, Salisbury; Jean Martin, Da-
vidson; Margaret Witherspoon, Salisbury ;
Faith Dudley, Charlotte; Mary Speir, Char- |
\lotte; Zoro Foy, Reidsville; Elizabeth |
| Clarke, Charlotte.

The General Electric Company
| has developed generating and
5 transmitting equipment step
(Continued from page 1) by step with the demand for

with some neat gains via the air. His efforts clectric power. Already electric-
came too late, for by that time High Point Hye o20ig70 aon BGR
| was leading 14-0. miles, And G-E engineers, ever
| High Point scored in the first quarter looking forward, are now
| when Hedick had punted the ball out on the experimenting with voltages
| Wildkittens’ four-yard line. James, plucky exceeding a million.
| Davidson back, went back of his goal line to
| punt, sending the ball out on his own 30-yard
| line as a heavy wind swept straight into his
face. :
Then the Panthers came to life and the
| Davidson defense crumbled before Panqua’s

| WILDKITTENS DEFEATED

_ A new series of G-E advertise-
ments showing what electricity
is doing in many fields will be
sent on request. Ask for
booklet GEK-1.

A Self-Starting Power Plant

Dawn—the slumbering city awakens and calls for
clectric current. Many miles away the call is
answered. A penstock opens automatically, releas-
ing impounded waters; a water turbine goes to
work, driving a generator; and electric current is
soon flowing through wires over the many miles to
the city. This plant starts and runs itself.

Power plants with automatic control are now
installed on isolated mountain streams. Starting
and stopping, generating to a set capacity, shut-
ting down for hot bearings end windings, gauging
available water supply, they run themselves with

uncanny precision.

Thus another milestone has been reached in the
generation of electric power. And with present-day
achievements in power transmission, electricity
generated anywhere may be applied everywhere.

The non-technical graduate need not know where
electricity comes from—nor even how it works.
But he should know what electricity can do for
him no matter what vocation he selects.

divine magic of enthusiasm, and whatever | fast plunges, the quarter gun firing with the
you do, do it whole-heartedly. “Give your-| ball within one yard of the last line. Panqua
self to the job,” was the speaker’s closing | went over on the first play of the next period.
counsel, Once again the High Point eleven swept

GENERAL ELECTRIC

SCHENECTADY,

COMPANY,

' GENERAL ELECTRIC

3-10DH

NEW YORK
