2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1,

1925

Twenty - Five, Last Class to
Old Chambers Only Name

to Remaining Students

History-Making Fire Occurred
During Freshman Year of
Graduating Class

NOVEMBER 28, 1921

Four Massive Columns All That
Remain of Old Historic
Building

The last class to know old Chambers, th:
class of 1925, is passing out from the halls
of Davidson, leaving behind those té whom
Chambers means four, weather-beaten col-
umns, and beyond that only a name. Four
years ago, two hundred and four Freshmen,
the largest class enrolled up to’ that time.
entered college. As the class leaves collegi
after. four years, eighty-three receive their
diplomas.

Many of the Freshmen roomed in the old
building, and spent a good part of their time
carrying up coal for their own use, and alse
for the use of innumerable upper classmen,
who in their day had performed the sam:
task for those who had been before them
The large, high ceilinged rooms were cach
heated by one small grate which devoured
coal,

For two and a half months the Freshmen
knew Chambers. ‘Many of them took [Eng
lish under Doctor Shewmake, or Mathe un
der Doctor Douglas or Professor Wood in
the large classrooms on the ground floor.
Still studied Doctor
Douglass and spent many hours working ex
periments in his laboratory.

others Physics under
Profssor Cur
fe also had a classroom in the old building,
hut
classes,

no Freshmen were members of his

In their spare time they climbed the steps
into the cupola, and from that vantage point
were able to see the country from Moores-
ville to Huntersville, or else crawled out un-
der the rafters of the central building to the
ledge beyond to see the picture of Woodrow

Wilson, which Manning, a student several

years before, had drawn in charcoal on thes

front gable.

Others ventured down into the columns,
and were told over and over again the story
of the skeleton which reposed at the bottom
of one of the pillars; or listened to the more |
plausible story of the freight train carrying
tobacco which was wrecked a little way up
the railroad: Of how the boys raided the |
derailed cars, and gained a few months’ sup-
ply of tobacco, and of how, learning of the
impending visit of a government inspector,
they disposed of the stolen property by
throwing it down one of the Chambers col-
umns. This story was revived especially
after the fire when the columns smoked for
several days, the one which smoked for over
a week being regarded as the one into which
the tobacco was thrown.

The Fire

November 28, 1921, is a memorable day
in Davidson history. A little after 4:30 on
that Monday morning the alarm was given,
when flames were seen shooting out of the
cupola. It was then too late to save the
building for the dry seasoned pine was burn-
ing like tinder, and the stairway to the cupola
acted as a flue. The central building was
soon a mass of flames, and from it the fire
spread to the wings, which burned
rapidly. ‘4

By 8:00 o'clock the whole building was
gutted, with only the brick walls and the
columns left standing. By quick work the
boys managed to save the majority of their
belongings, but several who had gone home
and locked their doors, and others who
roomed at the end of the hall next to the
central section where the fire was hottest,
failed to save their personal effects.

The blaze was seen for miles around, but
help was not obtainable in time from Moores-
ville and Charlotte because of the bad con-
dition of the roads, the Mooresville truck
getting to the fire after it had eaten its way
into both wings, and word being sent to the
Charlotte fire department that there was no
use to attempt the trip.

also

Know Old Chambers

One hundred and thirty-five boys were
reoming in the building at the time of the
blaze.

They occupied the wings, and in the

main building were the physies laboratories,

ve classrooms, the museum and old library, |

and the commencement hall. The toss
estimated at $250,000, of whieh $100,000
covered by insurance.:

No one was seriously injured in’ the

Was
Wits

fire,
though one bey, in trying to get a fire en-
gine down the steps was pinned by it, and
while pinned, severely burned before anyone
could him. Another,
table out of a third
balance and fell to the ground, but escaped

with only a sprained angle.

reach in throwing a

floor window, lost his

The usual funny

situations came up: one boy threw his bed |

out of the window, where it was hopelessly
twisted by the fall, and carried his mattress
down carefully; another picked up his suit-
case, threw his toothbrush and a shirt into it.
and without fastening it ran down the steps,
losing the contents of the suitcase as well as
six suits of clothes which he had left hang-

‘ing up in his closet.

Crowded Conditions

The morning of the fire, President Martin
called the student body together and plans
were immediately made for housing the
roomless boys. For the rest of the year boys
were crowded three and even four in a room,
But the executive committee of the trustees
was not idle, and within the week had made
plans for the rebuilding of Chambers and for
the erection of new dormitories to handle the
overflow of students.

Before the burning of Chambers the col-
lege was crowded, and after the fire lucky
was the boy who had only one room-mate.
Without co-operation between the faculty
and students it would have been impossible to
organize and get ,back to the routine of
class work inside of two days.

Walls and Columns Left

Practically all of the walls-of the building
were left standing, showing the quality of
the brick work. It was feared, however, that
some of the walls were dangerous, and an
attempt was made to pull them down, A rope
was thrown over the front arch of brick, but
j even with 80 to 100 boys pulling in unison,
|the wall still held firm for some time. One
| member of the class had his leg broken while
| pulling. He caught hold too near the build-
ing, and when those behind him pulled, they
\lifted him 15 feet off of the groun& and in
coming down he broke his leg.

Finally dynamite had to be used, and the
| walls were blown down, the lower walls to
| the wings being left standing until the next
summer, when all the brick were removed.
Now, all that remains are the four columns
which remain just as they were on the day
of the fire. The heat crumbled the rock
| badly near the base of one column but the
| other three are in almost perfect condition.

Right: Old College Li-
brary in Chambers. After
the fibrary was built in 1916
it was used as a museum
until the building was burn-
ed in November, 1921.

Left: Campus scene look-

umns of Chambers.

ing across toward. the col- -

Old
Chambers
a
Quarter

of a °
Century
Ago

| Over Sixty Years Old
} On January 6, 1860, classes were held for
the first time in the newly completed Cham-
thers building, and for over 61 years, classes
were held in the building, and college boys
At the time of building
;it was considered one of the finest college
buildings in the South, and from the point of
view of architectural beauty it held such a
place until it was burned.

lived in the wings.

with the difficulties in’ the
construction of the building, Miss Cornelia
Shaw, Librarian, in her /listory of Davidson
College, says:

In connection

s soon as the Chambers legacy became
able, came the erection of the most im-
posing and perhaps the largest college struc-
ture in the state. The building was erected
by J. N. Scofield, of Davidson. The nearest
railroad at that time was 20 miles away. This
fact made the collection stone, mortar,
and timber a great undertaking. The foun-
dation and pillar stones were quarried at
Mount Mourne, at Leap, on the
| Concord road, and in the Rocky River com-
munity. The lime was mined at Little
Mountain, across the Catawba River. The
j heavy timbers cut at Huntersville,
| while the planed lumber, coming from South
| Carolina, was shipped to Charlotte by train
and hauled by teams to Davidson. The
bricks were made of clay on the college land
and were burned where the railroad water
tank now stands. :

avail

of

Lover's

were

“The length of the building is 279 feet, and
its height, where crowned by the cupola, is
95 feet. The splendid columns which make
the building distinctive in Southern college
architecture, are 45 feet high, over 21 feet

in circumference, and over six feet in dia-
meter, The building 72. sleeping
rooms, five class rooms, three laboratories,
the beautiful hall, and the
room long used as the library and which now
the neglected museum, — It
faces the west and the village, and its front

contains
commencement

houses much

walls are ivy covered, Sixty years ot usag
have added to the dignity of the stately edi
fice which bears its giver’s name.”

Low Cost
that the
Over 60 years later, when it

The records show building cost
only $81,000.
was burned, the
than three times that sum.

ment

loss was estimated at more
The stone pave-
under the portico was presented by
Rey. J. W. Davis, of China, who  superin-
tended. the work of paving. The original
walnut doors, a gift from the class of 1907,
unde? the leadership of Fred Leroy Blythe,
now professor of Spanish in the college.
Center of Traditions

Around Chambers center the traditions of
Davidson. Many famous men have roomed
within its walls, among them Woodrow Wil-
son, one of the greatest men the world has
ever known, the founder of the League of
Nations, and the man who guided the United
States through the greatest war the world
has ever known.

While at Davidson, Wilson roomed in
number eight, on the first floor of the north
wing, facing the front campus. There he
lived and studied, chopping his own wood,
drawing his water and trimming his lamps,
as did the rest of the students in that period.

When the old building burned, Wilson’s |

room was the last to go, The south wing
caught first, and as the fire burned its way

‘| lenburg

| from the third to the first floor, the north
wing caught, and gradually burned to the
ifirst floor, When the flames came to Wil-
'son’s room, they passed by, and the rooms
on both sides were blazing before. the destruc-
Then, his
went, too, and there the flames ended their
work,

tion of his room began, room

During his presidency, when Wilson was
jin Charlotte at the celebration of the Meck-

Declaration Independence, hy
drove up to Davidson, and went once more

OL

he scenes of his college days, entering
| the room where he spent a year of his life.

Chambers was ideally suited Water
fights, and in her halls were started some of
the hardest fought battles in history. The
practice has not died down, and today along
Dormitory Row, the paper sacks still fly,
drenching whoever happens to be in their
path,

jover t

for

Setback Only Temporary

While conditions on the campus were bad
during the rest of the school year, provisions
were made immediately for remedying them,
and now three new dormitories have been
erected to take the place of the two wings of
Chambers, and Watts, which was burned a
year later. These dormitories, East, West,
and Watts, house 350 boys, as compared to
the old accommodations for 180. :

In addition, one wing of the new Cham-
bers has practically been completed, and other
campus improvements have been made. All
in all, the class of '25 leaves Davidson with
the feeling that it is a better place than. when
they first entered, but deep in their hearts
will always remain fond memories of old
Chambers and the days that used to be.

