JUNIOR-SPEAKING

Tu

EDAVI

|

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C

-» APRIL 9, 1925

SSUE

IAN

No. 25

Junior Speaking Plans Assure Fun and

Jollity During Spring Holiday Period

Joyous Festivities Begin With
Motion Picture at Gymnasium
Thursday Evening

MANY VISITORS COMING

Humorous Publication in Form of
Magazine Will be Distributed to
Guests

Junior Speaking, with the usual festivities
and merry-making, starts at high-noon
Thursday, although the major activities inci-
dent to the occasion will not commence until
Thursday evening when the students and
their young lady guests will gather, in the
gymnasium to witness one of the newest
photoplay releases. The exact title of the
picture has not been announced, but  ar-
rangements have been made with distributors
to secure an entertaining and appropriate
screen attraction.

From the opening scene in the first reel of
the special movie, until Sunday evening when
an unusual “Y” service will be held, the
week-end will be replete with unparalleled
amusement.
working under the leadership of D. G. Wil-
son, has planned for a full schedule of
events, and students are assured of the great-
est “Speaking” ever staged.

The premier fete of the class of '26 is
marked by Junior Speaking, and the Juniors
have combined efforts to bring it to a success-
ful conclusion. No details have been over-
looked by the class, in their effort to give
students an extraordinarily enjoyable time.

Special athletic contests have been ar-
ranged, and a stupendous carnival and min-
strel has been scheduled for the occasion.
These features will be augmented by. glee
club and dramatic club performances, as
special added attractions.

(Continued on page 2)

The Junior Class committee, |

Members of Next
Year’s Magazine
Staff Appointed

Editor-elect C. F. Monk, of the Magazine,
announces the staff which will assist him in
producing the Magazine next year.

E, P. O'Connor, who was poetry editor
this year, will retain this position next year
and will also be assistant editor. He has
shown his ability as a poet on several occa:
sions. One of his poems was printed in the
latest issue of the Future, an anthology of
the best college poetry of the year. He has
also written a number of poems for the
Magazine.

The Essay department will be edited by R.
B. Parker. Parker has distinguished him-
self on the Hill in literary circles since his
Freshman year. As a reward he was re-
cently elected to Sigma Upsilon, the highest
literary honor which can come to a man on
the Davidson campus. His activities have
not been confined to writing, but he has made
himself known in forensic circles, and was
also recently elected president of the Senior
class for next year. ‘

Another man who has shown genius is
S. W. Brown, who will handle the Short
Story department. Brown was recently elect-
ed to’ Sigma Upsilon. He has written a

Magazine in the past two years.

W. C. Ogden, who has written several
short stories, will edit ‘the Cap and Bells
department. His humorous and ghost stories
have caused considerable comment on the
campus.

T. C. Barr, who has turned out a number
of essays and short stories, and who has

(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Nosed Out by State and Elon
On Many Errors and Faculty Teamwork

Errors Prove Costly to Wildcats and
They Lose Two More Uninter-
esting Games

The Wildcat baseball team met defeat

twice during the past week, first at the hands |
of the N. C. State nine and later by Elon. |

N. S. State turned back Davidson to the
score of 10 to 8. Elon scored her defeat to
the tune of a 6 to 2 score. Both of the
games were played in unusually inclement
weather for baseball. The Wildcat nine did
not seem to show much improvement over
Previous games. Errors and ragged playing
was prevalent in both games.

The first game was a ragged affair on both
sides, although State showed up better than
the Wildcats. The final score was 10 to 8,
with State sitting on the heavy end.
weather was extremely rough and this was
probably the cause of many errors by both
teams.

Davidson began the game well, a homer by
Vance bringing in two runs with him. The
Techmen came back in the fourth and sprang
into the lead when six counters were scored.
A rally was made by the Wildcats in the
fifth, but they failed to tie the score. In the
ninth three hits brought in two runs for the
Presbyteriansut this also failed to event
the count. .

Vance was the outstanding star of the

(Continued on page 7)

The)

Davidson Players Score

Hit by Lively Program

| Mrs. Fred Hengeveld Stars in
Laughter-Provoking Comedy
Drama in Shearer Hall

“The Flapper Grandmother,” featuring
|local talent in the roles of Bingville’s select
|citizenry, scored a big hit with the large
jaudience of students and townspeople who
| flocked to Shearer Hall to witness the stu-
;pendous production. Chorus girlies and flap-
|pers galore were the big features of the
| performance, in which Mrs. Fred Henge-
|veld, as Lena Springgins, was the distinct
| star.

The curtain rose on an empty stage, onto
which Jimmy Swift, dapper young ruralist,
| personified by “Piggy” Martin, made
| his entrance. From this moment on the pro-
duction kept the audience in the toils of
laughter and amusement. “Piggy” and Mrs.
Hengeveld occupied the stage for several
minutes in rip-roaring comic skit, scheduled
as a curtain-raiser, in which they portrayed
to the satisfaction of all spectators the initial
drive of a young country girl in an auto-
mobile.

soon

The curtain dropped after this skit, only
to be raised on a far-different setting, that

(Continued on page 8)

5 ° |
number of essays and short stories for the

written for The Davidsonian, will head the |

|

|

| Chalmers M. S. Mcllwaine, prominent
| member of the Senior class and retiring
| completed with the last issue, one of the
|most successful administrations ever en-
joyed by an editor of the publication.

Success Marked Efforts

| of Mellwaine as Editor

Chong Mcllwaine Retires From
| Editorship of Davidsonian
| After Successful Career

| Chalmers M. S. Mellwaine—more popu-
lon the Davidson campus—concluded with the
|last issue of The Daz
|cessful editorship. His natural journalistic
jability, coupled with his untiring efforts,
|gave to the publication during the past year,

‘onian a most suc-

known. The new staff, in taking over active
“Chong” for the fine precepts he has left,
and for the extraordinary policy and lofty
ideals that he has maintained for the publi-
cation during the past year.

“Chong” took over the reins of The Da-
| vidsonian at the end of last year, having been
elected by an /overwhelming vote of his
| fellow-students to the coveted position of
editor-in-chief ; and since that time he has
given unstintingly of his best efforts for the
| good of the publication. His administration

has been successful in more ways than one. |

Throughout the editorship he has maintained
a high standard of news-value and make-up
for the paper; and,much of the praise that
|The Davidsonian has been accorded during
the past few months by other college publi-
cations are due in no small measure to the
work of McIlwaine.
(Continued on page 6)

JUNIOR SPEAKING
CALENDAR —

The program for Junior. Speaking
as tentatively arranged is as. follows:
April 9—Movie the

Thursday, in

Gymnasium.

Friday, April 10—Finals
Junior Oratoricals. Baseball,
Fresh vs. Rockingham High.
Club and Orchestra Recital.

Saturday, April 11—Baseball, D. C.
Fresh vs. Duke Fresh. Carnival and
Minstrel.

in the
DEG;
Glee

Sunday, April 12--Special “Y”
Service for Visitors and Students.

Monday, April 13—Baseball, D. C.
vs. Carolina, at Salisbury.

oom Baker Heads
| Athletic Council

| Omicron Delta Kappa Initiates Campus

Leaders and Alumni at Public Meeting

for Coming Year

At the student body election for officers
for the Athletic Association, held last week,
Tom Baker was elected president; Joe Me-
Connell and Jim) Pinkney, vice-presidents ;
and Hugh Arrowood, secretary-treasurer,

Baker won, in the second run-off, over
Laird, Vance and Black. Tom is one of the
Most popular members of the student body
and has been constantly interested in’ ath-
letics while at Davidson, He is an invalu-

|editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, ‘tinal

larly known as “Chong” by his many friends |

one of the most capable leaders it has ever | , i |
‘against opposing players nearly twice as large

able man on the footha]l team, a letter man,
jand characterized by.sport writers as “that
}red headed, fire-eating Wildcat.”
Pinkney and McConnell are both football
;men, having won their letters last fall. Me-
| Connell played center, while Pinkney held
|down one of the wings. Both are popular
; members of the present Sophomore class.
Arrowood, of the present Freshman class,
won in the seeretary-treasurer race over Me-
Millan and Melton, Since coming to David-
son, Arrowood has taken an active. interest

lin both football and baseball. He won. his

Thirty-One Associate Members
Chosen from Prominent Alumni
and Friends

JOHN R. TODD SPEAKS

Big Public Initiation Ends With De-
lightful Banquet for New
Members at Hotel

On Friday night of last week the Delta
Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa Society held
semi-annual initiation, The important
factor in connection with the occasion was

Its

the initiation of 31 associate members chosen
from the alumni who were at Davidson prior
to the installation of this circle in 1916. The
active circle honored itself in selecting these
men whose names are still remembered for
their enviable record made while here.

The private initiation was held at 7:00 p.m.
in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall, and
at 8:00 o'clock the new circle proceeded to
Shearer Hall, where the public exercises
were held, after which an enjoyable banquet
Was given at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel.

The program in Shearer Hall was opened
with an invocation by Rev. Mr Pharr, of

Gastonia. Next Dr. J. M. MeConnell gave

/D. C. as a member of the Freshman football
squad and is showing up fine in’ baseball
practice, There is little doubt that he will
imake a regular berth on the varsity squad
| next fall,

Tom Baker won a place on the all-state
jteam last fall by his fighting qualities, that
| has made him one of the most valuable foot-
ball players that Davidson has ever had.
Playing the game always fair and square, his
rstubborn aggressiveness has been the marvel
Bucking up

jot all who have seen him,

charge of the paper, feel deeply grateful to, # himself, he has always given a good ac-

count of himself,

a brief but comprehensive history/ of O, D.
K,, setting forth the principles andvideals of
the organization as: loyalty, service, and
leadership. Following this J. A. Lake read
the list of associate and H. B.
Price read the list of student initiates.

) ©.M.S. Mellwaine, president of the local
circle, presided throughout the evening.

| The speaker of the evening, Mr. John R.
) Todd, of New York City, was introduced by
{Dr. W. J. Martin, who in forceful terms
Icited the exceptional privilege of those pres-
ent in having Mr. Todd to address them on
this oceasion,

(Continued on page 6)

initiates,

Wofford Runners Bow to Wildcat Squad

_as Downpour Slows Up Time in Sprints

New Fraternity Founded
___ by Biological Students
Nine Students and Two Instructors

Honored With Membership in
New Scientific Club

interested in biological work organized and
formed what known the Biological
club. This society was begun to meet the
| long felt. need at Davidson for some honor-
ary club in connection with the biological
‘department, The other scientific courses each
have had an honorary fraternity for several
years to which students showing marked
interest and ability alohg that particular line
jare extended bids. The Biological club will |
operate in a-somewhat similar manner.

| The student charter members are: J. M.
[c: Covington, L. FE. Calhoun, J. P. Hendrix,
A. C. Lawson, F. H. Lindley, M. E. Miller,
W. E. Miller, P. M. Patterson, and M. M.
Teague. Professors C. C. Zeliff and W. L.
Porter compose the faculty membership.
Doctor Porter is head of the biology depart-
ment with Professor Zeliff as his assistant.

At a recent meeting Calhour> was elected
president; Patterson, vice-president, and
Covington, secretary and treasurer, These

(Continued on page 2)

Is as

Continuous Showers Dampen
Ardour of Spectators as Events
Run Off

The Davidson track team its first
track meet in two, years Saturday afternoon
when the Wofford Terriers were easily de-
feated by a 87-39 score. The meet was held

Won

eS ,on Richardson Field with intermittent: driz-
Six wecks ago several students especially |

zles of rain keeping down both the spirit of
the crowd and any exceptional records from
being made, Davidson started off by win-
nig a good majority of the points in othe
high jump and shot put-and kept up the pace
throughout until the
Visitors were out of the running.

the entire afternoon,

Harry Goodykoontz, Wildeat dash man,
proved to be the only exciting. feature of the
meet as he started off the track events with
a first place in the hundred, got another first
in the two-twenty, and in the final run of the
afternoon was the first to break the tape in
the four-forty. By winning 15 points Goody
was high point man for the second time this
season,

Captain Gracey, after a rather poor start
the week before, began his climb back to a
leading position by placing next to Goody-
koontz with 13 points, coming out first in
the high hurdles, javelin throw, tieing for
second in the pole vault and taking third in
the shot put.

(Continued on page 6)

~ ELC

OME.

FART VistwT o Ra
