THE DAVIDSONIAN, . SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

GRID TEAM BUILT AROUND
TWELVE ’24 LETTER MEN

(Continued from page 2)
some strong opposition from Allen and’ Nis-
bet. Other men who look good in the back-
field are the three letter men above and Har-
rison, McCalgan, Melton, and Overton.

The entire season’s schedule can be di-
vided into classes—that of the really big
games, and that of the smaller teams. Some
of the smaller teams played will be difficult
games, though. Elon, Wofford, Guilford,
Hampden-Sidney and Presbyterian College
of South Carolina are of the latter class,
with Wake Forest, Furman, Carolina, State
and Duke in the former group. t

Davidson won from Wofford on a blocked
punt last year and was lucky to do that—the
plucky Methodists from South Carolina bat-
tling hard. Then P. C. had Davidson 3 to 0
in the first half, and the outlook was gloomy
at the end of the second period. These teams
are to be reckoned with, even though from
smaller institutions.

The other games are going to be more
difficult ones. Furman has a wealth of ma-
terial from last year’s freshman team, even
though it is reported that they lost many
men. Wake Forest lost three all-state men,
and only two. big men in the line returned,
but she has a perfect backfield, the same she
used for two years, except Joe Armstrong.

State lost most of the’men in her line, but
have many hefty boys to replace them. Duke
is suffering at present, the failure of Leger-
stadt to return being the most significant
blow. Carolina did not lose many of her
men this year, and this game, at Chapel Hill,
will “be one of the most difficult of the
season,

There is a difficult path for the Wildcats
to ascend, and to conquer a big majority of
her opponents this year will be another splen-
did record. The Elon fracas starts the ball
rolling next Saturday,

EIGHT ADDITIONAL
INSTRUCTORS

(Continued from Page 1)
assistant professor in Greek, from the David-
son High School, of which he Was principal.
Mr. Bailey graduated from Davidson and is
capable in every way of inculcating into Da-
vidson men the Principles for which Davidson
Stands,

|
Mr. Beatty enters upon his duties as an/
assistant professor in the English depart- |
ment with every prospect for success, Heé}
received his training for A.B. degree at |
Davidson. After this he entered upon his
studies at the University of South Carolina
in pursuit of a Master's degree, which in the
course of a year he obtained. Mr. Beatty
then entered Columbia Seminary and there
obtained the Bachelor of Divinity degree.

Finishing at Columbia, he accepted the po-
sition of assistant Professor of English at
the University of Tennessee, and after hav-
4ng remained there for one year comes. to
Davidson as instructor in English.

Mr. Davis comes back to his
as instructor in the advanced courses in
Biology after spending the past year in post-
graduate work at the University of Chicago.
Professor Davis was a member of the class
of 23, returning to obtain a Master’s degree.

alma mater

Mr. Davis is admirably fitted for his Position
and promises to greatly strengthen the Bi-
ology department.

As the head of the German department
Davidson called Professor Vowles, a grad-
uate of Fargo College, in North Dakota, of
the years lying

the class of 1906, During

between that date and 1910 he was a Rhodes |
Scholar from North Dakota, getting while |
at Oxford the degree of B.A. and M.A. in|
German. From 1910 until 1922 Mr. Vowles |
taught at Fargo College, being the dean of |
the college for the last six years of this|
time. The school year '22-'23 was spent as |
assistant to the president of North Dakota. |
From the summer of 1923 until his coming |
to Davidson, Mr. Vowles was Senior Fel- |
low in Indo-European Comparative Philogy |
at the University of Chicago. During this |
time he was an assistant in the department of |
German. Mr. Vowles has published two well |
known books in the Norwegian language, |
books which have gained him some renown |
in the educational subjects. Professor |
Vowles is a wide traveled, having visited |
most of the countries of Northern Europe. |
He also holds the honorary degree of Doc-
tor of Literature given him by his alma
mater, Fargo College, in 1919.

Professor Fulcher, now assistant profes-
sor in Physics, comes to Davidson from the
University of Virginia. Mr. Fulcher spent
his first two years of college life at William
and Mary and then changing to the Univer-
sity of Virginia, where he received the de- |
gree of Bachelor and Master of Science.
The Bachelor degree was in Math, while the
Master degree was in Physics. For some
time he was an instructor in Math at the
East Raeford State Teachers’ College of
Virginia. Professor Fulcher is a member
of O. D. K. at the University of Virginia.

The R. O. T. C. department of Davidson
shows three new faces, this in the form of
Captain Elkin, Lieutenant Becket and Ser-
geant Burton. Captain Elkin comes to Da-
vidson from the Infantry School at Fort
Benning, Ga., having spent four years there.
He was in charge of all recreation of the
camp during this time. He was editor of the
Infantry School News and the camp paper. |
Captain Elkin has been designated as Corp
Area Publicity Officer and is in charge of
all summer camp publicity in this corp area.
Captain Elkin is to coach the boxing team

here this year and a great deal of interest |

will probably center around this sport.

Liutenant Becket entered the army in 1918, |
In,

being a member of the 24th Infantry.
1920 he was at the Infantry School at Fort
Benning, Ga. From here he was transferred
to Fort Bliss, Tex. The Philippines next

claimed him and from there he was trans- |
indeed |

ferred to Davidson. Davidson is
lucky to have two such officers to assist in
the R. O. T. C. department which has been

so greatly improved under the able. direction

of Captains Weems and Doughtery.

Sergeant Burton comes here with a splen- |

did record for service behind him. At Camp
McClellan he was provost sergeant, his job
being to direct the policing of the entire

camp. |

|
Although Europe is separated by sev- |

eral thousand ‘miles of water it claimed

its share of the professors. . Dr. Lingle |

went to France to do research work, |

while Dr. Shewmake of the English de- |
partment spent most of his time in Eng- |

land. Dr. C. R. Harding was in Greece
gathering material for his classes; and |
Professor Goldiere conducted a party of |
students and sight-seers through France |
and other countries of Europe. Miss
Steele spent most of her vacation touring
the continent.

|

Dr. Erwin divided his time between |
Davidson, where he supervised the com- |
pletion of his new home, and his old home
at Morganton.

-° WOOL i

$100000
REWARD

To an

one who will
prove that anything stat-
ed in this ad is misrepre-

sented or untrue.

SUIT TAILORED TO MEASURE [iq |
FOR ONLY $ A = |

YOUR OPPORTUNITY

To purchase direct from the manufac-
turer a fine quality suit made of pure

tailored to your measure, serge or worsted. Latest
models. Single or double-breasted foy ONLY
Send No Money---Write for our Special Offer. Perfect Fit
and Satisfaction guaranteed y

wool valued at $50.00. “S41 hand-

Six Pair Ladies’ light
or heavy full fash-
ioned pure-SILK
HOSE valued at $10,
for only

$1.00

Guaranteed Perfect
and Finest Quality

RY tw ~ SPECIAL OFFER-

$10.00 VALUE PURE SILK HOSE FOR ONLY $1.00

Gentlemen’s

Eyyelys Tals Men’s

ight or heavy pure

SILK HOSE valued
at $10, for only

$1.00
SEND NO MONEY

Write us at once for
full bargain offer to

THE ALLIED SALES CO., 150 NASSAU ST., NEW YORK, N. Y.

Y Cabinet to Formulate

More Extensive Program

Life Service Campaign in October—
Innovation in Distribution of
Handbooks

The “Y” Cabinet will mect some time the
latter part of this week to formulate addi-
tional plans for the year. The meeting will
be in the form of an overnight retreat, all
the members of the cabinet spending the
night outdoors together. At this time all the
Prospective plans for the year will be dis- |
cussed. Speakers have been secured for |
several weeks in advance and the vesper |
services are expected to be better than ever.

Preparations are being made for the fall |

been held and the present cabinet is making |

rl oe
| plans for an even better one to be held this ganization,
| year. The speaker has not been decided upon | have dedicated their lives to the service

but probably will be selected in the next |
few days. Plans are being made for a more |
extensive program in all departments for |
this year and it is believed that. this year |
will be one of the most successful the “Y"!

‘has ever had.

The cabinet began the year by having the
“Y" handbooks mailed to all the freshmen!
three weeks before school opened. This. en- |
abled the freshmen to become better ac-
quainted with Davidson, its men and its tra- |
ditions. This is the first time that this has?
been done and proved beneficial to the new
men by giving them an insight into the col- |
lege activities before they reached Davidson. |

The following is this year's cabinet: 1!
M. Appleby, Boys’ Work; F. T. Franklin,
Community Work; Av Y. Bowie, Deputa-|
tion; W. A. Christian, Attendance; W. T.!

Covington, Personal Work; L. L. Deck,
Handbook; G. M. Eddington, Sunday
Schools; J. M. Garrison, Weekly Meetings ;
W. E. Milton, Self-Help; R. B. Parker,
Bible Study; E. K. Régan, Mission Study ;
H. L. Shaw, Mission Band; D. G. Wilson,
Entertainment.

Volunteer Band to Meet

Sunday Morning in Gym.

Missionaries-to be Extend Invita-
tion to Men Interested in
Foreign Field

On account of conflicting engagements, the
Volunteer Band was not able to hold a meet-
ing Sunday morning, and the first regular

| Meetings to be held during the latter part of | meeting of the year will come on this Sunday
| October. These meetings have been a great | at 10 a. m. in the “Y” reception room in the
| Success the last few years that they have | gymnasium,

The Volunteer Union is a nation-wide or-

of
Christ in foreign fields.
vided and sub-divided into states, districts,
etc.,
the one)jat Davidson is numbered. The of-

composed of those persons who |

ficers of the local band are: G. M. Edding-
ton, president; J. A. McAlpine, vice-presi-
dent; and W. B. Rice, corresponding secre-
tary.

Everyone is cordially invited to attend the
mecting Sunday morning. Whether Senior,
Junior, Sophomore, or Freshman, if a man
is interested in foreign missions, he should
come to the Volunteer Band and get in touch
with those who have that as their life-goal.
Those who have not decided on a vocation
may be helped in doing so by attending these
meetings. But it is especially to be desired
that those freshmen who are going to foreign
fields come to the band. They should not
wait for a personal invitation, for they would
certainly get one were it known that this
was their life work. It is sincerely hoped
that they will come and make themselves at
home.

“Shorty” Williams former “Y” secre-
tary here after a summer at camp Caro-
lina has taken up his duties at the Uni-
versity of the City of New York. Public
Speaking Professor Wachter and Mrs)

This union is di-| Robson, head of the college infirmary
| .

| were at Montreat. Prof. O. J. Thies com-
on down to the local bands, among which | pleted work on his master’s degree at

Cornell,

’

PIANOS

SS

APPROPRIATE FURNISHINGS
for

FRATERNITY HOUSES
RADIOS

Peoples Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C. :

VICTROLAS

7 itt GAN ET 7
| | Mt

iii ;
ie calla

vel

Mh

Among the largest one-man shovels in the world is this
electric giant engaged in open-pit: mining on the
hern Minnesota. It picks up eight

Mesabi Range in nort
cubic yards of iron ore at a gulp,
@ waiting car.

mi > |
177 |e
M\

IM

li] »
i

which it dumps into

A day’s work in a minute -

Mesabi Range, renowned iron ore deposit, is yield-
ing its mineral wealth at the rate of 16 tons for every

In every branch of mining
operations G-E equipment ig
very much in evidence. And
there are engineers of the
General Electric Company
especially assigned to mining
problems and requirements,
just as there are others special-

-izing in all major applications
of electricity.

A new series of G-E advertise-
ments showing what electricity
is doing in many fields will be
sent on request. Ask for book.
let GEK-1

GENERAL

GENERAL ELECTRIC

bite of an electric scoop.

Aman with a shovel would work a whole day to mine
and load eight cubic yards of iron ore which this
300-ton electric giant moves in one minute.

Of course, all mining is not done on the surface. But
there are many mines in which electricity has changed
our Conception of mining operations. Wires, pene-
trating even to the deepest shafts and galleries, have
brought light, power, ventilation and added safety to
those who must work in the very bowels of the earth.
Electricity’s contribution to imme may be of partic-
ular interest to the student of mining engineering, but
it is of general interest to all college men as still another
example of how electricity is simplifying the world’s

work,

COMPANY,

ELECTRIC

SCHENECTADY,

NEW YORK
