“a

: THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of |
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH.

HAROLD D. BURKE_....-.-.---.---.----- Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

WoH BRAN GH occssteocc eeu iccseaucsiesss Managing Editor

L. D. WHARTON.
P. F, JONES.__.

Editor
Editor |

--Assistant Managing
Assistant Managing

:
‘
:
‘
‘
'
:
i
:
H
‘
‘
‘
‘
H
‘
is]
a
=
°
3

W. E. MILTO. ------Athletic Editor |
R. B. PARKER. --Associate Editor |
A. Y. BOWIE... oh .-Associate Editor |
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH. --Associate Editor
Es PEAO}CON NORS2 252 ceces socescaceahucssownece Alumni Editor
H, D. Business Manager |
W. H. LYNCH -Assistant Business Manager |
H. Y. AL --.-Circulation Manager |
J. M. GARR Subscription Manager
Col, WW -Solicitor
V. S. BROYL -Solicitor
EF, L.. DOUGLA ---..-Assistant |
JULIAN LAKE... ce Department |
|

Reporters’ Club

L. B, GIBBS, President } M. GARRISON |

D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. . P, GLADNEY |

A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. A. H._ HOLLINGSWORTH |

C. R. ANDE IN P, F. Meters |

iF M. APPLEBY . D, LAWS |
. M. AUSTIN . H. LYNCH |

C, L. BRAGAW R. H. McILWAINE |

V. S. BROYLES J. E. MOORE

D. M. CALHOUN Cc, C. MURCHISON

W. T. COVINGTON E. P. O'CONNOR

W. T. DAVIS R. B. PARKER

G. M. EDDINGTON E, K. REGEN

F. T. FRANKLIN i THOMPSON

L, L. DECK . S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Welcome to our college, N.C. C. P. A.
D——

A smiling sun, balmy breezes, fragrant
perfume of flowers, pretty girls—what more
could a hard-working student ask?

A certain professor arrived at his class ten
minutes late the other day. When asked our
opinion of such conduct, we said that he
was in a class by himself,

pS Sp yea

We are glad to hear that our friend the
Wildcat is to have a handsome new home
near the gymnasium. This palatial resi-
dence will be built from the remnants of the
well-house that has sheltered so many stu-
dents while they sipped of the waters that
flowed icily upwards. Congratulations, Mr.
Wildcat.

D

A contributor sent us a lot of jokes with
the request that they be published. As far
as they went, they all right, but they were
all of the Piggly Wiggly variety—you have
to find your own point. * ae
D:

The excellent speech delivered by Senator
Heflin on Monday night was one that cap-
tivated the attention and emotion of one
who loves the Southland. His flowery and
easy language had something in it of Goy-
ernor Bob Taylor and Henry Grady. It was
truly inspiring to listen to ‘such a man who
loves the South, its traditions, it glory, and
the hopes of,an even brighter future, ©

Sunday week is Mother’s
the time to think of that little mother back
home who loves you. Write her a long let-
ter such as you would write to a sweetheart,
and she’ll love you all the more. Sweet.
hearts there are by the score, but there is
only one mother, and you can never have
another like her. Remember to send her a
note of love on Mother’s Day.

D )

Those students who have spent many
hours studying French enjoyed a rare treat |
Monday when they had an opportunity to |
hear Professor A. Vermont, the author of |
La Belle France, speaking in the original and |
unadulterated tongue made famous by Joan
of Arc, Napoleon, Carpentier, et al. Almost
all the students who listened to the two ad-
dresses were able to understand practically
all the address, as the speaker spoke in a
slow and distinct Yolce,

“Only -a-very-few-more-weeks-now, Have
you thought how wearing it is to try to ac-
cumulate the knowledge that you were sup-
posed to acquire in a term, in only a few
short hours? Cramming is done at ‘the ex-

Day. Now is

pense of pushing something else out of the

JOURNALISM

ODAY marks the first day of the State

Collegiate Press Association, which

will be on the campus until Saturday.
Editors and business managers from the
publications of the various colleges of the
state will gain much helpful information
while here.

The collegiate publication is assuming a
place of more and more importance. It has
made itself a real power in the line of con-
structive things and all things pertaining to
the progress of the institution. As an ad-
vertiser of the wares of the college, it has
few rivals, being surpassed in our estima-
tion, only by the football team. It faith-
fully chronicles the news and activities of
the college and expects nothing in return.

The publication of any college can be of
inestimable value to the institution. It can
help the students to establish a new and bet-
ter line of thought, or it can blaze forward
paths that stretch far ahead into the dis-
tance. During times when spirits are at a
lew ebb, the paper can keep on plugging
away, talking of the old pep whether it sees
any in view or not.

Those who direct the affairs of college
newspapers receive mighty little credit for
the consistent hard work that they put
forth. It is not an easy job, for personal
feelings are not to be considered in the
work; it has to come out at a stated time,
and there’s hard work: to be done.

It is our sincere belief that the college
should take more interest in the newspapers
and magazines published by the students.
College authorities often fail to realize how
much it means to the institution to have a
live, throbbing news organ in their midst.

There is an‘ ever-increasing number of
men and women who are intending to make
journalism their life work. A course of
study properly arranged, would do a great
deal towards arousing latent interest in
journalistic work, and furthering the inter-
est of those who write daily.

Davidson should, by all means, have a
course in journalism, There are at present
about twenty young men in this institution
who are going into journalism permanently,
and who want to take some course in writ-
ing each year, Under the present plan, the
Writing course in English is given only on
alternate years, :

It is to be hoped that next year the col-
lege authorities will see fit to recognize this
highly important field of work, and thereby
provide an attractive course for those who
desire journalistic training.

See
PICTURE SHOWS:

Probably all have noticed the flow of stu-
dent patrons of the cinema towards the
theatres in Charlotte, Mooresville, and other
nearby places. We believe that this is
caused by the quality of the pictures that
have been shown at the gym for the past
few weeks. At the Saturday night show,
there was only a handful of people there.

Several have stated that the reason that
they leave the hill on Saturday night is be-
cause they do not know half the time what
the pictures will be, and the other half of the
time, it isn’t of any-account. Others state
that the screen used at the gym, or else the
machine, produces a picture that is strain-
ing on the eyes,

Surely Davidson can afford to put on a
real picture every week, for the benefit of
the students. They, have supported the pic-
tures loyally, but they want at least to know
what the name of the picture is before they
see it. A little music would also help out
wonderfully sespecially during the tedium of

ome of the pictures that have been shown
ately,

jp)

The editorial published elsewhere on this
page is indeed a worthy suggestion. Mr,
Allen, evidently sees the need for a more
wide-spread diffusion of news among the
various colleges of the state. Such a news
service, if properly conducted will do much
to prevent petty animosities, unkind feeling,
and will bring about a closer co-operation
among the colleges. It will promote a live-
lier interest among the students, and will
Serve in many ways to make the publica-
tions more entertaining and readable.

Four Queens College girls will conduct
the vesper services of the Y. M. C. A. next
Sunday afternoon. Those who have these
meetings in charge are especially anxious
that a full attendance be present Sunday.
Out of respect for our sister college in Char-
lotte, every man should turn out and hear a
novel and beneficial program.

brain that has a legitimate right to be there.
It_is_here_todayand-gone_tomorrow. By
getting down toa little extra studying every
day, we can all be sitting pretty when the
exam .period comes along, and be able to

snap our fingers with disdain in the face of
any textbook.

With the College Editors

Chaff

SUGGESTIONS TO N.C. C. P. A.

Inter-collegiate athletic contests, debates, glec
club concerts, college newspaper conventions, and
other inter-collegiate gatherings are linking the
various colleges in North Carolina closer together
and are making all college students become more
and more interested in the news from the neigh-
boring colleges. Much of this news may be found
in the daily newspapers, but it could be better
handled in the college newspapers.

At present few college newspapers in the state
print much news from the other colleges, and the
news that is printed is merely something warmed
over after having been served a time or two by
the Associated Press. It would be a very simple
matter for the newspapers to make an arrange-
ment whereby this news could be served fresh
from the oven.

We intend to suggest a North Carolina College
News Service to the delegates at the next N. C
C, P. A. convention, to be held at-Davidson Col-
lege about May 1. All that would be necessary
would be an agreement among the editors to ex-
change news stories. One reporter on the staff
of cach paper could be given the job of writing
two short, but “live”, news stories each week and
mailing them out to the other members of the
News Service. In this way every paper would re-
ceive, in return for the two stories mailed out, at
least a dozen stories from the other colleges.
These could be cut and used in any way con-
venient. Feature stories, cuts, perhaps “columns”,
and carious other features could also be ex-
changed, In fact, a regular college syndicate
could be set up with only a very slight, if anv,
additional cost to the various college newspapers.

Such a system would not only be very con-
venient for the college editors, it would also aid
greatly in bringing about better relations between
the various colleges served by the News Service.
Most misunderstandings, petty jealousies, and
unsympathetic attitudes are the result of the
students of the various colleges not being well
acquainted with each other, not being ,able to
see things from the other's point of view.

We think there are marvelous possibilities in
this suggestion. We have talked it over with
editors from several college newspapers and all
were very favorably impressed. with the idea.
We await with anticipation the action taken by
the N.C. C. C. P. A—G. W. Allen, Trinity Chron-
icle,

There’s much of truth in the good old proverb
that whatever is worth doing at all is worth do-
ing well, even though we are at times inclined to
doubt its veracity when we find ourselves con-
fronted with an almost impossible amount of
work to be accomplished in short order, Slip-
shod, haphazard methods never pay even in the
most unimportant of activities; careful, thought-
ful preparation counts in the end for more than

one thing and the values are lasting ones. --
Salemite.

Minor Chords

Much interest has been evidenced in this
column of poetry, and the editors feel that
it fulfills a need that has heretofore been
lacking. A bit of verse is relished by every-
one, and for this reason there will appear a
poem in this column each week. Anyone
who feels the lure of Springtime’s balmy air,
or the call of the poetic muse is hereby en-
joined to write as fancy dictates, and let the
readers of The Davidsonian share with him
that exalted feeling.

The poem this week is in memory of
Mother's Day, which comes on the tenth of
May.

TO MOTHER
T miss you, oh so much, when I'm alone
And tired and weary of the toil of day.
The night seems long without your sqweet caress
To steal the tears of sorrow all away.

When things go wrong and those around me
doubt,
T long for just a word of solace sweet
To send me fighting, onward to the fray
With joyful soul that knows no stern defeat.

I wonder if you're near me when I dream
Of childish days when earth was fairyland,
And I a carefree boy who knew the love
That lingered in the touch of your dear hand.

How much of love you hold, no one can know;
How much of tender sacrifice and pain.
God grant me strength to keep my steps aright
And let my tender love for you remain.
C.F. S.

$5,000 IN PRIZES FOR COLLEGE ORATORS

Invitations, have just been issued for a National
Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest on thé Consti-
tution, with $5,000 in cash prizes. Any non-de-
gree-holding student in any institution of higher
learning in this country.is_eligible. The orations
must be original, must not require more than ten
minutes for delivery and must be on The Consti-
tuition, or the relationship thereto of Washington,
Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison, Marshall, Web-
ster or Lincoln.—Florida Alligator.

(Headline in P. C. Paper)
BE A BLUE STOCKING SUPPORTER
Well, that’s something with a snap to it. We
wonder whether they prefer the non-metallic
kind, Ivory, or simple elastic.

A Cat has nine lives, but a frog croaks every
night.

Dick Littlejohn is an excellent dancer; that is
all except his two feet. He's so stingy that he
goes around a corner in his flivver on only two
wheels so he can save his tires.

Many a man isn’t really alive until his motor
goes dead.

Stout Montgomery, who is a patron of the fine
arts, was talking with his crony, Sid Jones about
the merits of the different shows.

“Sid, my boy,” he said, “I think that What Price
Glory is the king of ‘em all.”

“Yep,” said Sir Sid, “but I prefer the Follies
because they're way ahead of the rest. In fact
they outstrip all others.”

Our Weekly Song Skit
Composed by Frank Hudgins who is preparing
himself for the denistry. It is intended to be sung
in drawing rooms only. Here it is:

“THE YANKS ARE COMING.”

Frank Hudson’s Latest
We will all join in that quaint Mother Goose
rhyme which goes:
Ashes to ashes,
Stick to sticks,
Tf you court a girl now,
You've gotta have a Super-Six.

Spike McGee is an auto man right. He says
that he'd rather have a little miss in his front
seat any time than to have one in his engine.

Waiting for a Ring—(Etc.)
N. C. C. P. A.—You’re a real dumbbell.
N. C. C. W.—You’re a Liberty Bell yourself.
—How’s that?
—Oh, you are half cracked.

Papa Goose Rhymes
Little Bill Kiser
Sat on a geyser
Eating his oats and hay,
When up came a torrent
Without poor Bill’s warrant
And he hasn't come down till this day.

Whew!!

Poor Fresh Hood
Went to the woods,
For he feared his lessons he'd flunk.
And he saw a black kitty
Which he thought very pretty,
But it ran him clear home—the mean skunk,

Owed To Doc Brown

Hickory, Dickory, Doc,
A mouse ran up his sock,
So Doc went down

To get in town’

A tested mousetrap stock.

Add Book of Synonyms: The prof came in the
room shivering like a Ford fender.

Attention, Investors

Logan Lovelace is the foremost inventive genius
at this honorable institution of learning. During
the cool spell of this week, he has perfected a de-
vice which he intends to commercialize next win-
ter, as he believes that it will be a boon to human-
ity. He calls it The Lovelace Dog Warmer. It
is nothing more or less than an electrical appar-
atus designed to do away with cold feet even on
the coldest nights. Mr. Lovelace is quite proud of
the newest product of his brain, and we wish him
unlimited success in his new work, for he says
that he intends to market it at once.

The machine is a dandy little contrivance around
the house, weighing when full-equipped, only six
tons. Appliances extra, but one can do the work
with just the initial set. The whole things works
by electrical power, a motor being included. There
are six speeds forward and three reverse. The
feet are inserted into the main entrance, and when
the machine is started, a warm and comfortable
feeling comes over the coldest pair of dogs that
ever parked themselves under a table. Price
complete, is only $25,347.25 F. O. B. Davidson.

It works fine except for one or two minor de-
tails which will be smoothed out this week. On
Monday night, Mr. Lovelace was giving it a work-
out, and somehow during the night, the machine
slipped into reverse gear. Instead of warming
his feet it started cooling them, and before he
could wake up well, the room felt like a refrigera-
tor and he felt like an overgrown icicle. He says
that he prefers hot dogs to cold feet any day
(or night).
