THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

7 )
Among the young ladies who were |
home during the holidays were Misses ’ E: h ‘
Sara and Martha Hamilton, Sara and Town News XC, anges
Lois Barnette and Loretta and Edith
Mooney. ; i ;
| The Booklovers Club met with Mrs.) <A school for cheer leaders boasting an en-

Yellow Cabs
Are Good Cabs

Just Phone

24

Any Hour of the 24

Charlotte to Davidson
or
Davidson to Charlotte

YOU'LL FIND THEM
ALWAYS ON THE JOB

Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.

Look For Our Private Phone
in Brown’s

*

One question that always
arises in the mind of every
serious thinking college man
is, “What am I going to do
after graduation or during
vacation?” This is an im-
portant question, worthy of
serious consideration.

In a very definite way the
life insurance business offers
you the opportunity for suc-
cess. Inno field is there a
greater chance for the college
man.

Write to us for particulars.

IPOH ACU TA MO CARON

[THE PILOT

Shewmake on Friday.
was the speaker.

Dr. J. M. Douglas

Dr. Martin has been absent on a trip
| which took him to New York, Chicago
and points intermediate.

Mrs. Ellenwood has returned to David-
son and is stopping with Mrs. Paisley.

Miss Margaret Douglas, who is home
on furlough, has recently returned
from a speaking tour in New Orleans
and adjacent points.

Miss Mary Black is home again, much
improved after a stay in the hospital in
Statesville.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin was hostess to the
Thelemites Club on Friday night.

Prof. and Mrs, F. K. Fleagle have had
as their Mr. and Mrs. Guy C
Allen and son of Greenwood, S. C.

guests,

Mrs. Wilson MacConnell has had as
her guest for several days, Miss Tsabel
Alhee, of Boston, Mass.

Miss Nan Wood, of Charlottesville, Va.
has been the guest of Mrs. Moore Me-
Connell,

Mrs. W. W. Hunter has been called to
New York by the illness of her brother.

MISS ELOISE MARTIN
ANNOUNCES ENGAGEMENT
WHS, WY Ih, a
large number of friends on Saturday af-
ternoon, April

Martin was at home to

1th, formally announe-
ing the engagement of her daughter,
Eloise to Mr. Armand London (Buck)
Currie; the marriage to take place early
in September.

_ Buck Currie is well-known to all Da-
| vidson students who have been here two
or three years and to a great many more,
| In his college days Buck was a main-
stay the

on Varsity nine. Following
; Sraduation, he taught for a year, as
| principal of the Davidson schol. The

|Next year, Buck was summoned to pilot
jaffairs of the Y. M. C. A. He and Pat
| Crawford worked together, then turned

lthe Y

From

over to their successors.

suck went to the
Seminary at Louisville, where he is fin-
lishing his second year.

| Miss received her education
| with Davidson schols and Converse Col-
\lege. At present she resides with her
| parents in Davidson and holds a teach-

| ing position in the public schools of the
| village.

Davidson

Martin

| The Davidsonian, and all Davidsonians

|
congratulate Buck and wish for him and

his bdire-to-be, all the happiness that

rollment of 20 is being conducted at the
University of Vermont, for the purpose of
providing the institution with capable cheer
‘leaders, A green V within a green circle on
a white swéater is awarded to these men by
the action of the Athletic Council—Old Gold
‘and Black. ,

This summer, the University of South
Carolina will conduct a language summer
‘course in France. It will be the first of its
| kind in this state. The preliminary courses,
covering pronunciation, diction, etc., will be
offered at the University of Poitiers from
July 15 to August 7. The finishing course
will begin on August 10 and last through |
August 22 and is to be held at Sorbonne Col-
lege of the University of Paris. Credits for
work done in this foreign summer school of
the University will be given on same basis
as in regular summer school work.—P. C,
Bluestocking.

va

Out of 4,790 students at the Texas Uni-
versity, only 12 are foreign students.—Crim-
son-White,

A Bachelor Club on the University of
Arizona campus has a membership of 259,
As a punishment for “queening,”

ot

a member
the club is forced to wear a “mother
Hubbard” on the campus for an entire day.
—Crimson-White,

Statistics
Pennsylvania

show that the University of
has the largest number of
graduates under the national colors, Of the |
136 commissioned officers who are graduates |
of the University, nearly 60 per cent hold
commissions above the rank of captain—
Richmond Collegian.

Four Left
One is. one-fifth of

cnough,

five. That's simple
Take one away from five and you
have four leit, That too is simple. There is
a rule which states, “If you get started the
rest will come easy.” Well, the Crimson and |
Gray baseball team has started. They have
subtracted the “big” one (N. C. State) from |
the “big five,” the rest, Carolina, Wake For- |
est, Duke and Davidson, ought to come easy. |
—Guilfordian,

BAND ENGAGED FOR AUTO
RACES AT NEW SPEEDWAY |
——. |

/College Musicians Selected by Offi- |
cials to Play at Charlotte Course |
Se.

The Davidson College Band will go to the |
Charlotte Speedway on Monday, May 11, to)
{assist in. the musical entertainment for the |
Memorial Day races. This is the second set |
of races to be held in the newly built speed |
oval, |

The band has been selected as one of the |
hest musical organizations in the vicinity of
Charlotte. Plans have not been definitely de- |
cided upon as yet and it is uncertain whether |
the band will play as an individual unit or |
in co-operation with a band from Charlotte. |

A tf Lb AN FT A

the style center of the South---
the store of the Southern colleges
SHOWING THEIR LINE
OF LATE SPRING AND
EARLY .SUMMER COL-
LEGE CLOTHING, FUR-

NISHINGS, HATS. AND
SHOES

_Lobby, West

Monday and Tuesday

April 27-28

| they themselves can wish. ' The most probable outcome is that the band
| will play in front of grandstand B and be- AS THEY ARE W I it Y
Witen: the: Davdeon: eel fore the races will march in front of the ———— e nvite our
sae ie ae ae ea Nd real grandstands on the track. | AN8} WBE 1eXC I, ’
eee ee ‘ a rom their state tour) BT. Crayton, in charge of the band, an-| RaiptGH > 1 500 UuUSINESS
YW ave only three remainit zames t a 3 : “re Hie Gee atl Share Setar cl amnengiy lacs a ss
LIFE INSURANCE CO, (complete thee eee maining games t0 nounees that the present plans are for the $ Vanes 2» 1379
| , bela ctesparetll ets igh, states hand to be carried to and from Charlotte in| Simns 18 = 311
Greensboro, N. C. and Wake Forest Fresh. The team, which a large safety bus, but this has ‘not’ been | Brent ie 6 8 308 R SMALL
; Dh ee : echo safety bus, s has ; | 5 Alford _. 2 ‘ 4
ars ene 14 wet, left on the Past) decided upon definitely. This is the fourth | eae 8 3 286 LARGE O
A. W. McALISTER ria ante begin an ambitious schedule for! trip that the band has made this year, the | Covin ee 23 6 261
PRESIDENT eee i Bue ie y resh Geen Oi Duke others being with athletic organizations. The | F Nite ee | "8 2 330 | 5
: bran University of N.C, N, C. State, band has improved lately and should make Wells eee 20 4 200
H. B. GUNTER late ; ake ae ane were afl to ee an excellent showing at the races. | Wrenn 20 4 200
Vice-Pres, and Agency Mgr. e tour ending with the game with tate | = -- sod
; P , Woodham ------- 28 5 179 5
Cor tee i Daviian trash wit) MCALPINE, LEADS MEETING {ic eo NEEBENDENCE
> A avids fresn willl §$§ QE VUOLIINTEER RANT (| nl wncecscscee nt
have four days of rest, and then Lowell High | OF VOLUNTEER BAND |g Laird ---------_- oe ih ies TRUST CO.
EEE if z 5 rcr| D ; BI eee ee A
saa aa will be Played a return game at! At the regular weekly mecting of the Vol- | Pla h 5 0 000
: naan ane high school was narrowly de- | unter Band Sunday morning an interesting | Kugter Bao ae 2 0 ‘000
COSTUMES Svcttocd rn ost 5 The team! program was given, Jim McAlpine led the Mee ce fi oe “ON THE SQUARE”
of “owell High is coached by Doc DeArmon, | meeting, and after the usual business was qiemernere 1 0 000
: and apparently his team will again throw a| gone through the floor was given to Mr.| Ea poses i 0 000
Wigs and Make-up for Scare into the Fresh team. : Williams, the local secretary of the “Y.” | lack: <== = = === ‘ ce
poe Fresh will play their return game at The subject was “Tolerance.” It was Foe 50 “220
‘ avidson on May 2, and although it is prac- b h hat this subject ; : 227 :
School and Colle e Plays ; i rought out that this subject is one of which
4 p (‘4 y' pet en ae ae aes a vee, ae every person interested in religion and its E N.C
an ageants » yet nothing definite 1s known of their! advancement in the countries of the world ; : CHARLOTT $ 5 (0;
: strength since the D. C. Fresh have yet to should have a*knowledge. The question was Wake Forest beat ‘Duke University
' play them. Faeedj Untinow heat toihe tolerant withith Thursday 4 to 3 although Dempster al-
Special Rental Rates ) Gale

VAN HORN # SON
921 Walnut St.
y PHILA., PENNA.

nae

Wake Forest Fresh wind up the season for
the Davidson Fresh with a return game here
May 9.

Alford’s play on short this year had
been characterized by over anxiety. He
seemed to have lost some of his nerve
Glenn cracked out one hit, Younger plac-
ing him as lead-off man, shifting Wood-
ham down to third place.

-| ant, every child being tolerant until the sur-

with whom we come in contact. Mr. Wil-
liams stressed the point that especially
should those who expected to go to the for-
eign field learn-to be-kindly and patient with
the natives there. An excellent example is
the fact that all persons, on birth, are toler-

roundings change and mold its character.
After a prayer by L. B. Gibbs the meet-
ing was. adjourned.

lowed the Baptists only six hits and al-
though he hit two’singles and one triple.
The Baptists won out by frequent bob-
bles on the part of the Duke crew.

Hampton, another sophomore, got his
first taste of varsity ball Thursday after-
noon when he went in as a relief for
Flake. Hampton also got a hit in his
one time at bat.

Last year it was the two Alford broth-
ers who turned the tide of victory to
Davidson against Carolina. With Frank
out gn account of mumps it looks as if
the family will have to depend on Sion
for honors Monday afternoon. He is
just getting into the proper shape. Coach
Younger had him playing center field
with little Bobbie Glenn on short.

