6

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 10, 1925

Wachter Scores Big Success in Second
Kipling Recital Before Local Audience

Ministerial Band
Hears “Sock” Gibbs

The second appearance of Prof. Carl
Wachter in a recital of Kipling’s poems,
given in Shearer Hall, on Tuesday evening,
was greeted by an overflowing audience of
students and townspeople. For over an hour,
this master interpreter of the stirring poems
of the great English writer, held the undi-
vided attention of those who listened.

The “D” Club, under whose auspices this
entertainment was given, benefited to the
extent of more than a hundred dollars. This
is to be used as a fund with which to pay for
the new home of Felix, the college mascot,
and to provide for his maintenance.

Professor Wachter was introduced by Jim
Hendrix, in a very glowing and compli-
mentary speech. The speaker related in

afternoon in Shearer Hall.

Hollingsworth led in prayers.

lowed with prayer.

L. B. (Sock) Gibbs, ’25, now studying at
the Seminary, who spoke quite appealingly
on this subject of “Prayer.” In part he
said: “The motive of prayer is not getting
things we want, but of coming into com-
well chosen words the appreciation of ial iillen with God. We must not pray as
“D” club for this kindness on the part of | hypocrites—their reward is the approval of
Professor Wachter, and told also of the}men; but if we pray in accordance with
estimation in which he is held on the campus. | Christ’s teaching, we get another reward.
The program was made up of selected | Prayer should be earnest and not repetition
poems from Kipling, and two baritone solos,|in so many ‘words. Too much does the
the whole being a delightful treat for those Lord’s Prayer come from our lips and not
who love the rugged and virile poetry of | our hearts. Christ teaches us to be persist-
Kipling, the whimsical charm of his East ent in prayer. We should pray unceasingly
Indian veres, and the grandeur of his longer | for things which we believe to be in accord-
poems. lance with God's will. Others will sce the
In an informal and unconventional man- ‘result of secret prayer in our lives, which is
ner, Professor Wachter, briefly told of the|a reward. We must realize that Christ is
program while seated in a large rocker on| the center of things, and we must put Him
the well-appointed stage. He drew the im-| really in the center of things. Do not skim
mediate attention and interest of the au-| the surface for then we will not get the
dience by his sketch of the poems which he | power which is in prayer.”
was to rea. By this explanation of the pur-| As this was the time for the new officers
pose and style of the selections, the audience | to be installed, the reports of the outgoing
was able to grasp more closely the fullness chairmen were heard. Don Stewart, for the
of them. He spoke in a very touching way Deputation Committee, reported that depu-
of the illness of the poet, who now lies’ tations had been sent, along with quartette,
seriously ill at his home in England. to Bethpage, Kannapolis, Shearer, Gillwood,
The first selection, Gunga Din, was given Hopewell, Hobson’s Church, and two to
with all the fire and animation of the old Mooresville. Williford, for the Devotional
British soldier who originally told it. The Committee, reported that morning watches
young British soldier, was read with all the and Bible work had been carried on. Mur-
unconscious humor and bravado of the old | chison, in charge of the Records, remarked
guard. The audience rocked with laughter | upon the attendance. Goodykoontz, report-
during the rendition of this favorite. ing for the Program Committee, reviewed
Masefield’s Cape Horn Gospel, telling all! the speakers which the Band had heard.
the trials of the crew on their voyage, was| Davies, reporting for the Friendship Com-
received with cheers. The interpretation of mittee, said that two feeds had taken place.
the old salt was excellent. A poem, given, President Bowie, in handing over the reins
as an encore, telling of the world’s creation | of office to A. B. Williford, reviewed past
| work ,and as a charge to the incoming of fi-
|cers, ead Paul’s charge to Timothy, from

|

Professional Notices

|

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST

|
|
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
|

PHONES: Office, 5050
Residence, 1937.J

CHARLOTTE, N. C. ||

Telephones 12 South Tryon Street

Office $171 Res. 3419-W Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE |

CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.

Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson

DENTIST

oa re = -

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted

F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST

24 South Tryon St.
Up Stairs
Telephone 3528

N.C.

CHARLOTTE, N, C.

PHONE 24 ANY

Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM

Mooresville, N. C.

II Tim, 2:3-15. D, H. Stewart is the newly
elected vice-president and L. K. Pritchett
the newly elected secretary,

President Williford then named the fol-
lowing committees, after which the mecting
was dismissed with a song and prayer:

Program—D, H. Stewart, chairman, and
J. M. Murchison and T. ‘Preer.

Devotional—A. Y. Bowie, chairman, and
H.G. Goodykoontz and C, F. McRae.

Deputation—C. G. Davis, chairman, and
P. J: Garrison.

Music—W. H. Allison, chairman, and J.
H. Caligan and C. K. Poole.

Statistics—L. K. Deck, chairman, and A,
B. Claytor and W. K. Pritchett.

jas seen by a Trenchman, was a scream
| throughout.

Professor Wachter lapsed into
|a Pierre of the Parisian boulevards in his
| Shoulder shrugging and grimacing, depicting
the exsitable Frenchie.

| In every one of these poems, Professor
| Wachter’s interpretation of the spirit and
l tone was superb. His rendition of “If,” in
|the manner of a father speaking to his son,
| was truly touching and inspiring. The Dedi-
jcation to the Barrack Room Ballads was
given with all the fervor and vigor of Kip-
‘ling himself,

The two solos, The Gypsy Trail, and On
the Road to Mandalay, were well received,
jalthough the singer’s range was not so good
jas when reading. The dialect was true to
|life in both selections. (Cy, 19, 3,

? HOUR OF THE 24
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. Arbuckle Attends
_ Meeting in Chattanooga

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, the president of the
mn’s organizations of Concord Presbytery,
| recently attended the meeting of the men
‘officially connected with the Southern Prs-

byterian Church. This meeting was held in

devise means to relieve this stress. The
the leading and best informed men of the
Church. Such men as Dr. Lilly, Dr. M. E.
Melvin, Dr. “Revis, Dr. Homer MeMilian,
and Dr. Mauze, appeared on the pregram.
One of the most inspiring and he!pful of the
addresses was the one deliverel by Dr.
Lovejoy, of the M. FE. Church, North. His
subject was Stewardship, and was very help-
ful to those present. The census of
opinion was that the financial condition could
be relieved by raising the budget. The
budget to be raised is $1,750,000. Dr, Ar-
buckle reports a very enjoyable and helpful
trip and hopes to see the financia! condition
of the Church soon relieved.

DOCTOR EDWARD MACK

|

(Continued from page 1)

first, education of the young men. of the
colony, and second, to preserve and promote
learning and truth among the Indians. The |

|out the years.

“A sacrifice has to be made to get an
l education,” stated Dr. Mack. “In Great
| Britain it takes $30,000 to educate a young
man from the time he enters Eton until he
} graduates from Cambridge. The cost of an
education in one of the big universities in|
this country has been estimated at $1,500 a/|
jyear. Not every American father or boy is |
willing to sacrifice it, and happy are those
|who do, for no investment will make a)
richer yield. The great men in life are the
ones that have sacrificed in college.” Here |
Dr. Mack cited the experiences of a certain |
wealthy man of the mid-east, who had the
opportunity to go to college, but elected a}
| business course at Poughkeepsie. He has |
made a success in the business world, but he
realizes that he is not able to compete with |
the people that his rank calls for him to
associate with, for they are on a higher in-
tellectual plane. |

“College is the best place to drift along
and loaf. It is a good place to drift with |
the stream. How easy it is to go along the
line where there is no resistance, but in after |
years the thought is different, and to make
a success the helm must be set into the|
winds, and kept there, in order to make the |
voyage of knowledge and make the port of |
service. There is no thought of criticism
against the modern colleges, but every man |
who enters college places on his soul the |
beauty of election. Now, when a young man |
comes here, there are many ways to go. The |
parting has grown into a multitudinous di- |
vision. Of the men that come to college |
and elect easy courses, only ~one in ten has |
the same chance for success in life as the |
one who labors through the difficult fields.
It is something for the man to have the de-'
termination to become something through his
hard labors. .

“To quote Webster: ‘Training in certain |
subjects of general culture and after that
general and progressive election.’ This is |
the making of men. To sce beyond. the |
easy and popular out into the hills where |
men ask much of them is the great thing. |
Sacrifice in education does not end with}
college days. Learning means hard labor.

“It is a great thing to be a poor man, for
they are wonderfully free. The greatest
achievement in Korea is the translation of
the Bible into Korean. The nation will re-!
joice in the newness of light. May the great
God give you a spirit of sacrifice! Learning |
is sacrificial.” |

BIGGEST CAROLINA PAPER

| (Continued from page 1)
| honors under the Fetzers, Davidson products. |
| In selecting the Wildcat leader The News |
jand Observer said, “Coach Monk Younger, |
|of Davidson, is chosen for the 1925 season.
With these eleven men and Younger to
coach them, no college could ask very much
more to give it gridiron power and au-
tumnal publicity.

HE DESERVED IT

“How did you get that
medal?”
“Heroism, lady; I took it away from

Carnegie

a guy twice my size.”

Literary Societies in
Final Forensic Battle

The finals in the Junior-Senior debates
will be held December 21 between the teams
of the Pandeinic and Philanthropic Literary
Societies, on the question, “Resolved, That
the Sterling-Reed educational bill should be

The Band held its regular meeting Sunday , Chattanooga. Among the men present were | enacted into law.”
Caligan led the Secretaries of Stewardship, Superintendents | J
opening song, after’which’ Monk, Brack and of Missions, Members of Executive Commit- | the 25th of November, the Metrophilian and
Aiter an- tee and Leaders of Men’s Organizations, The | Eumenean teams lost to the Pandeinic and
other song Bowie read the scripture lesson. purpose of the meeting was to investigate | Philanthropic teams respectively, on the ques-
Matt. 6:5-15. McRae, Deck and Miller ful- the financial condition of the Church and) tion, “Resolved, That

In the preliminaries, which were held on

the United States
should enter the Permanent Court of Inter-

The talk for the afternoon was made by program included messages from some otf | national Justice.”

The members of the Philanthropic team
are: A. B. Williford, C. G. Davis, and J.
C. Barrington. The members of the Pan-
deinic team are: W. E. Milton, L. M. Mc-
Cutchen, and G. M. Eddington.

In the past it has been the custom to give
one medal to the best debater in each of the
societies, but the custom has been changed
and only one medal will be given to the best
debater of the four societies. This causes
the medal to be more coveted, and. makes it
mean more to the winner,

Both of the affirmatives won in the pre-
liminaries. In the new question, the Pan-
deinic has the affirmative, and the Philan-
thropic the negative. Both teams have begun
work on their respective sides and the finals
give promise of being one of the most
heated discussions that the forensic: council
has sponsored,

-Endeavorers Have

lsociety has maintained its integrity through- |

Lengthy Meeting

The subject of discussion at the last
meeting of C. E. Training Class was in
the form of a debate. The subject sof
the query was: “Resolved: The Dixie
Endeavor Magazine is Better for the
Work of a Society Than the’ Christian
Endeavor World. The affirmative was
upheld by Davis and Covington and the
speakers forthe negative were Steele and
Graham. | Both sides brought out some
points in favor of their papers and all
seemed interested. The lack of time
hindered a very lengthy discussion and
after due consideration the judges hand-
ed down a decision in favor of the neg-

ative.

The meeting opened by the singing of
a few familiar songs led by Lynch after
which three members led in prayer. At
this point Covington took charge and
called for the reading of the Scripture.
Garrison favored the class with a solo.
Next in order was the appointing of the
judges and officers ofthe debate.

At the close of the debate Covington
urged every member to take renewed
interest in the class and be present for the
two remainding classes before the holi-
days. The meeting was dismissed with
the Mizpah Benediction.

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A
GOOD SHOW AT THE

VICTORY
THEATRE

MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.

Weekly Programme

Wed., Dec. 9---Lost, a Wife,
with Adolph Menjou.

Thurs. and Fri., 10th and 11th
---“Romola,” with Lillian and
Dorothy Gish.

Sat., Dec. 12---‘The Shock
Punch,” with Richard Dix.

Mon. and Tues., Dec. 14 and
15---“Chickie,” with Dorothy
Mackaill Bosworth, Myrtle
Steadman, Bowers, Brockwell.

Wed., Dec. 16---“Secret of
Black Canyon,” with Dick Hat-

ton.

Coming---“Never the Twain

Shall Meet.” by
ee

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE

HINES
CO-OPERATION

We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers
to do the rest

The Sanitary Cafe

Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

———.

PIEDMONT HAT CLEANERS
Shoe Shine Parlor

Pressing Club

Have your old hats cleaned and reblocked $.50.

SAVE MONEY

No. 27 S. Tryon St.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Phone 3818

SHEET

ANDREW

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

OLDEST IN THE STATE

MUSIC

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

