4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

The Davidsonian |

|
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press |
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press |
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH..----.-.---------------- Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE...--..-.-.-.---.-.-----Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF |
Wi cHioB RAN GHizc2 te cutee vs aeaceuceeeue. Managing Editor |
ssistant Managing Editor

P. F. JONES... -Assistant Managing Editor |
W. E. MILTON -Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER Associate Editor
A, Ya BOW se ceccsscuss Associate Editor

sociate Editor
--Alumni Editor

A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH-
By Bs OICONNORE 22222 oe

Business Staff

H. D. BU ....Business Manager

W. H. LYN ant Business Manager |
H. Y. .-Circulation Manager |
J. M. Subscription Manager |
c. W. -----Solicitor |
V. S. BROY Solicitor |
BL. J .--Assistant |
JULIAN LAKE. -.--.-...----------..--..-Service Department |

Reporters’ Club

CL. B, GIBBS, President } M. GARRISON

0. G. SON, Vice-Pres. . P, GLADNEY

A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH

C. R. ANDERSON P, F. vane |

ii M. APPLEB i D. LAWS |
. M. AUSTIN WV. H. LYNCH

Cc. L. BRAGA R. H. McILWAINE |

Vv. S. BROYLES J. E, MOORE |

D. M. CALHO C. C. MURCHISON

W. T. COVINGTON FE. P. O'CONNOR

W. T. DAVIS R. B. PARKER

G. M. EDDINGTON FE. K. REGEN

F. T. FRANKLIN J. B. THOMPSON

L. L. DECK V

V. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Junior Speaking is all over now—all but |
|
|
|

the fond memories.
Sone Sea) yeaa

Those who know say that the recent en-
tertainment given by the Junior Class was
the best ever, and that the class as a whole
deserves commendation for the splendid pro-
gram which they gave to the fair visitors on
the campus.

Sete SD) te

Our young friend, the wildcat, looked
from behind the bars of his cage at thé
assemblage in the gym and wondered in his
own feline way what it was all about. Per-
haps he sighed just a little catlike sigh for
the freedom of his native hills where he
used to roam. Wouldn’t our mascot look
fine in a nice comfortable cage out on the
campus where all might see him, and where
the cat himself might see the things that go
on from day to day?

D

We wonder how many of the courses that
were arranged in the schedules for next
year during the last week or two, were put
down because they are easy, and how many
were entered because they really meant
something. It is a lamentable but true fact
that many students take certain studies and
courses simply because they represent a few
units that are required for graduation and
a diploma. It is not too late now to change
some of those “crips” into studies that will
take hard work and will give back much in
return,

D:

On the last day of this month and the first
two days of May, The North Carolina Col-
legiate Press Association holds its semi-an-
nual meeting here at Davidson: * The meet-
ing held at Greensboro College for Women
last fall was a howling success, and we hope
that we can show the visiting journalists
from all over the state, as good a time as
was shown at the meeting in Greensboro.
The student body and the editors of The
Davidsonian believe that this paper will re-
peat its triumph of last year and will be
acknowledged again as the best college
newspaper in North Carolina.

It is a pleasure to walk through the new
Chambers building and notice the spacious
class-rooms and the well-arranged offices

‘that make up the southern wing. It will be
a thing of beauty and durability when com-
pleted and something of which the student
body can well be proud. The rooms are well
lighted and are large enough to accommo-
date all classes. We predict that the boys
will take a greater pride in the new build-
ing than in some of the sadly dilapidated

ones that it has been our lot to be in.

VACATIONS—THEN WHAT?

HERE are only six short weeks left

I in the session of school which we
: started after the mid-year examina-
tions,

After those six weeks there are three
months of vacation; a vacation from the
cares of class-rooms and ardous studies. By
some that time will be spent profitably and
carefully, and others will take it only as a
period of pleasure between two dreaded
periods of study and mental effort. :

To some, the summer vacation will mean
no more than a continual round of good
times and pleasure. They will fail to realize
that only two or three summer vacations at
the most will find them through with college
and ready to embark upon the careers for
them.

Others will be brought face to face with
the problem of securing work that will yield
a remuneration sufficient to allow them to
return to the hill next year. It is a case of
no work, no school, ta them. They realize
the seriousness of college life, because they
are the ones that are backing themselves
with funds so that another year of study

| might be had.

We can make this summer vacation what
we will. We can prepare ourselves for
future vocations by reading and study. We
can observe and discover facts for ourselves,
and when September brings with it the
opening of college we will have sharper
minds with which to work.

Many a fellow takes his final examination
in May, closes his books with a bang and
vows that he never wishes to have to think
of any studying until he comes back in the
fall.

He thinks that he can have knowledge
poured into his brain like water into a
bucket, at regular intervals, and that it will
remain there whether he gives it one serious
thought or no. When the time comes when
he must show what he has learned ,he won-
ders why the nice facts and figures that he
learned in college did not cling to him.

When we leaves the hill with a diploma

grasped proudly in our hand, will be the |

time for a full exercise of our knowledge.
Perhaps we will wonder why we didn’t
specialize in some -particular subject, or at
least learn enough about it so that we might
tell it to all the world.

nee Dees
MEMORIES

“You left me alone, but still you're my
own, in my beautiful memories.” So sang
the poet to the heart of the bereaved.

This is no mere prisoner’s philosophy, but
solid fact.
ought to penetrate any mind. The pessimis-
tic attitude is tolerated only by those who
do not realize that it is the part of manly
men ta keep the mental processes clear.

These memories are part and parcel with
ourselves. We prune and increase them
according to the original plan of our na-
tures, and, in time, we have made, not only
a personality, but a character. The stuff
that dreams are made of is capable of tak-
ing to itself a hardness which exceeds that
of granite. When it has thus solidified it
bears the impression, clear. and lasting, of
every memory which we have nourished.

The conclusion is plain. Be these mem-
ories tender, or merely sentimental or of
solid achievement, or of regret, be they of
the beautiful or of the sordid, they have all
alike taken their places in our characters.

Memory can be trained and directed.
When care is taken’ the garden of memory
becomes a store-house of treasures which
can be drawn from as life would tempt as
to smugness, despondency or recklessness.
Yes, memory and spirit together make char-
acter and its counterpart—personality.

F. F,

D
SPEAKING OF WRITING

Students of Davidson College have shown
a liking for journalistic, and more strictly
literary writing. Through the medium of
The Davidsonian, The Davidson College
Magazine and Quips and Cranks, this taste
for writing has been fostered until many
have developed their talent for writing to a
point where they yearn to enter the fields of
professional authorship, where money and
fame can be gained. :

The college publications have done a great
deal in helping with this work, but the work
is essentially of a practical nature. What
this college needs is a chair of journalism or
of written English. With this addition to
the English department, a new field could be
opened up to those who want to learn the
theory. and technique of effective writing.

Juniors and Sophomores of this year have
nothing to look forward to next year in this
way of a course that will add to their knowl-
edge of writing. Juniors who finish the
English V. course this year, and who wish
to develop into successful writers, have no
alternative other than to take a course or
two in the Elizabethan drama, or in Ameri-

The electric shock of this truth -

Exchanges

Chaff

DO PARENTS WANT THEIR CHILDREN TO
BE ATHLETES?

By “Hurry Up” Yost

Boys and their parents should remember that
there is not so much difference between original
ability as there is in the effort made to develop
it. It isn’t what nature gives you—provided she
doesn’t actually handicap you—that determines
how far you will go in athletics; it is what you do
with yourself. The well-developed athlete is the
man who while a boy, engaged in the right kind
and amount of physical exercise.The Emory
Wheel. ‘

STUDENTS HERE FORM SOCIETY FOR
GREATER EMORY LAST MONDAY

Will Secure Most Promising Material for
Freshman Class Next Year

As an important step toward marshalling the
forces of all loyal Emory men in the great for-
ward movement for their alma mater, the Greater
Emory Students’ Association was tentatively or-
ganized Monday morning at an enthusiastic mect-
ing attended by a number of student body lead-
ers. H. Conrad Blackwell was elected temporary
chairman and Wirt Cate was appointed acting
secretary.—The Emory Wheel.

The State of Kansas has passed a law that it’s
no longer illegal for anyone to smoke. Now their
flappers and shieks will no longer go to bed feel-
ing bad about breaking the law—or be scared
about running excess.—The Cadet.

CLASS FOR STAMMERERS FORMED

University of Southern California—A class

meets on the campus every day for the cure of |

stammering students.
ed to date in the course but no credit is given to-
ward a degree.—Oklahoma Daily.

AS FATE DECREES

Walter Camp, who kept himself fit, and taught
the rest of us how to do so, dies suddenly at the

comparatively youthful age of 66, while Chauncey |

Depew, who has eaten three generations of diners-
out into their graves, is still hale and hearty at
90. The moral of which is—there isn’t any. Keep-
ing fit is good, so are the pleasures of life. Some
people can survive a hundred years of either.
Some can’t.—Emory Wheel.

can poetry. Obviously, these are not par-
ticularly alluring to one who craves to put
down his thoughts on paper, and thus de-
velop a most necessary adjunct to a com-
plete education.

All men who go into any kind of business
need a thorough knowledge of effective and
convincing English. There is no better way
of acquiring it than by writing. Ministers
need to know how to write lucid and appeal-
ing sermons. Lawyers, unless they can
draw up a brief that will carry a measure
of persuasion, cannot get very far in their
profession. In fact, the demands of this
present-day life of ours show us that we
need a thorough knowledge of writing,
whatever may be the line of endeavor we
may decide to enter.

As shown by the large list of men who
are on the reportorial staff of The Davidson,
and those who edit the other publications,
there is a large number of men who are
keenly interested in writing. A number are
interested in the writing of dramatic pro-
ductions.

Should their talent be allowed to lie dor-
mant a year, because we have no-course in
the catalog that will give them a chance to
exercise their inherent and natural ability
to write?

ee pe
SPRINGTIME
There is a freshness and buoyancy in the
now that makes a fellow’s footsteps light,
and his heart lighter. He feels the fires of
ambition kindled more strongly within his

_breast, and a vague longing and uneasiness

arises in him,

Tis Spring—that glorious season of the
year when all nature is in her most bene-
ficient and kindly mood. One cannot help
but be inspired by the beautiful sight of
green, growing things that are a part of
God’s wonderful!.creation. We notice as
never before the beauty of the out-of-dors

around us. We vaguely wish for relief from‘

irksome confinement so that we may flee
away on fanciful wings to a delightful land
of make-believe where we can put aside the
things of care and sorrow, and rejoice -in
fairyland.

Springtime and youth are synonymous.
As young men we stand on the threshold
of life, ready to be pushed into the steady
current, just as a ripened fruit is plucked
from a tree, The world is ours, Springtime
is here, winter far away, and care and sor-
row unknown,

Two students have enroll- |

WHO'LL IT BE?

Much to the disappointment of those destined
and hand picked by Dame Luck to fill the rapidly
depleted ranks of the Mump family, the germs so
thoroughly sown by the gentle zephyers some
time ago have failed to develop and grow into
the full blown adult cases. Still these tiny elusive
joy spreading agencies lie hidden waiting the
knock of opportunity to show themselves in some
concrete and perceptible form.

Who are the fortunate men who have been
selected by Fate to occupy the beds so lately de-
serted hy the famous of the school? If not the
most talented and gifted of the sons of the old
college at least they were swell headed. Or,
rather, swell jawed to be exact.

Mump germs are supposed to develop into
mature specimens within three weeks after they
are spread abroad. The entire student body has
been terribly dissappointed that the Easter bun-
ny failed to show up with his selected and assort-
ed cases of mumps.

Be not impatient though, little ones. Those
sleek smooth mugs which now innocently pro-
tude beneath their masters’ life-sustaining intake
shall shortly attain that degree of notoriety of-
fered only to the great. Like the classical balloon
they may become ever larger and larger until
their honored possessor fairly sails away into the
limitless spaces of thyroid expansion.

The last batch of the Mump family lanquished
on their beds of suffering unheralded and unsung.
These now-to-bes are not to be so. neglected.
The Davidsonian, in accordance with its policy of
awarding the accomplishments of the great and
the near great, plans a stupendous and worth-
while prize award ‘to the student showing the
largest jaws within a set time. He who exhibits
the best rounded largest, most attractive, rud-
diest, grizzliest, and, at the same time, most pain-
ful enlargement of the ventral aural region shall
receive, absolutely free of all charges and obliga-
tions, a brand new unused copy of last week’s
Davidson. Unlike the rules governing the ma-
jority of such contests, those dealing with this
one provide that this valuable gift shall remain
in the winner’s family and be handed down to his
heirs through all generations. Not for one year
shall they possess it, but during the entire dura-
tion of his life and of the lives of those who shall
display it in their art galleries as a proof of their
illustrious ancestor's splendid prowess.

Tn determining the lucky one the judges shalt
take into consideration all the above mentioned
points of interest. In order to overcome and
thwart any attempt of false deception on the
part of the contestant each one is to be firmly
jabbed in the part of his oral anatomy under
consideration. The man producing ‘the most
audible and pathetic groan is to be selected as
having the best developed case as far as the
nervous reaction is concerned.

Daily observations and recordings of the prog-
ress of each individual will be poblished in a
specially arranged Infirmary Bulletin. Every
entry is to be entitled to his private nurse at the
expense of the college medical department. If
the assistant to the patient is unsatisfactory more
suitable one will cheerfully be called into service.

We suggest, in an impersonal way you under-
stand, that all who are contemplating their en-
trance into this novel contest enroll in M.U.M.P.
fraternity at once. This is strictly an honorary
organization and the better qualified a prospect is
the warmer is the reception accorded him by the
charter members. The enrollment of the club,
really comprising a waiting list appended to that
of the few original members, is not in any way
limited or restricted. The motto (in Latin) is:
“Comeus oneus, comeus allus.” And, by way of
parenthesis, we would like to insert an editorial
to the effect of expressing our personal and pri-
vate opinion that a more inclusive’ and yet more
aesthetically beautiful employment of that classi-
cal tongue has never been made than the one it
is now put to.

Realizing that the inexperienced may have a
few moot points they wish to have cleared up
respecting the acquirement and culture of mumps,
the ex-inhabitants of the palatial residence for
the aristocrats of mumpdom have founded a col-
lege with a competent corps of instructors. The
space here is too little and insignificant to do
justice to the members, or component parts, as
they might properly be called; and so we shall re-
fer you to the recently published catastrophe of
that nationally known assembly of inflammatory
authorities. Although their past glory and dis- |
tinction is undoubtedly no longer existent, these
former confinees of the local prescription publish-
ing house are still somewhat chick and have
again adopted‘the crude and abomniable practice

“ofvpartating of <italistic necessities other than

eggs.
P. F, J.

—D——
“In England,” says a member of the Cambridge
debating team, “you go to the university to de-

velop yourself, while in America you go to dis-
tinguish yourself.”
