THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

7

ALUMNI NOTE

|
Rev. J. T. Pharr, ’12, and Rev. C. M. N.. McDonald, ‘12, is at the head of

Clontz, '18, have recently conducted a/the Community Chest Collections in Co-
very successful series of evangelistic serv- | lumbia, S. C.
ices in The Immanuel Presbyterian
Church in Wilmington, N. C.

“Tim” Pharr is the pastor of the Im-
manuel Church and Ralph Clontz is the
evangelist for Wilmington Presbytery.

L. B. Gibbs, °25, is at present a member
the Junior class at Columbia Sem-
inary.

of

Leighton Choate, '16, will be married
to Miss Ruth Crowell, daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Andrew Johnson Crowell, on
Wednesday, November 18th.

J. B. Sloan, '23, a student at Columbia
Theological Seminary, is recovering from |
an operation for appendicitis. \

a

DETAILED STORY OF GAME | cighteen yard line Hendrix made six
PLAYED ON WEARN FIELD around left end. Grey made six more on
‘same play. This was second first down
for Wildcats. Leggette slipped through
leenter for five yards and touchdown.
Roberts spoiled Laird’s place-kick.
kickoff

son 25 yard line, returning thirteen yards.

By Don Wharton

First Quarter

Leggette received on David-

Grey kicked off to Palmer on Hamp-
den-Sidney’s twelve yard line, who. re-

turned twelve yards. Brisner punted He then made three as he went out of
forty yards. Leggette made three yards bounds. Davidson was offside. Legegette
over right tackle and then two over, kicked a long low punt to Hampden-
center. Grey punted thirty-two yards, Sidney. Arrowood making a great tackle
the Davidson ends downing Brinser in as he hit Brinser for a loss. Ball on
his tracks. Edmunds made three over Hampden-Sidney 22 yard line. Palmer
center. Brinser punted thirty-three made six over right tackle; then two
yards., Grey returned ten to the fifty over center. Edmunds made first down
yard line. Grey got off a quick punt for over center. Two of Brinson’s Passes
forty-nine yards, Pinkney covering on failed. He punted forty yards, Grey re-

Hampden-Sidney’s one yard line. Bin- turning fifteen,
ser punted to fifty yard yard line andjover center. was spilled for
Grey returned eighteen After gain around right end. Pass to Pinkney
Grey failed to gain over center, Legette | from Grey was spoiled by Tiger backs.
made three over right tackle. Grey to|]Grey punted to Tiger
Black netted vards around
right end, the Davidson captain catching
the ball after a Tiger back had imetert|
it, With the ball on Hampden-Sidney’s

Leggette made three

Grey no
yards,

20 yard line, both
Laird and Baker tackling in tracks, Ed-
munds made three yards over left tackle
and ‘then first
around the right side of the line.

WE WISH TO ANNOUNCE

pass eleven

down
Pal-

Brinser scored a

|
|
|

i"

lias

There will be a demonstra-
tion of the new Ortho-
phonic Victrola Thursday
evening at 7:45 o’clock at
theS. A. E. Chapter House,
Davidson, North Carolina,
by the music department of

PARKER-GARDNER
COMPANY.

Everybody is invited to at-

tend this demonstration.
Nothing you may _ have
ever heard in the past is
anything like it.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Parker-Gardner Company

‘mer made ten yards in next three plays
Quarter: Davidson 6,
first down David-,

} !
over right guard. |
Hampden-Sidney 0;
H.-S. 2.
Second Quarter
Hampden-Sidney’s ball, first down on |
own forty yard line. Davidson line held |
Palmer for 2 yards in two plays. Brin-
son punted 32 yards to Grey who re-
turned 10 yards. Davidson end ‘was in
motion, penalty five yards. Black made
Pass to Hendrix from

son,

two over tackle.
Grey failed.
side on north side of field. Tigers failed
to gain on an end run, Hampden-Sidney
off side.
ter and Palmer barely one over right
guard, Edmunds to Atkins made
23 yards, ball now on Davidson 42-yard

Pass,

line.

Tigers failed to gain as carried ball out-
side, Pass to Atkins from Edmunds made
te vards. Tigers were throwing ball over
center of line and running towards side-
Black stopped back for no gain.
Pinkney intercepted pass on™ Wavidson
2» yard line, falling forward two yards..
Levette made one over right tackle. Dick

lines,

Grey punted for seventy-one yards over
goal line.

Pinkney threw Palmer for slight
gain, Mitehell, Charlotte boy, stopped
Palmer for 2 vard gain. Mitehell rushed
Brinser’s punt which went out on Hamp-

a

den-Sidney 48 vard line. Hendrix drove
around left end for five yards.
Captain Dudley
stopped Captain Black over right guard,
Coach Allen,
game, to try a drop-kick from the

made three over center,

Younger sent in hero of
last
forty-four vard line, Kiek went to right
of goal posts, a little low. ‘Viger ball on
enty vard line,

Atkins slipped for six yards off left end,
Black

Bin-

Palmer made two over center

backing up line with great power.

ser punted 36 vards, Grey returningy six
to Davidson six yards. Davidson was
Wi-side On first: plav. Worden threw
Grey for two yard loss. Hendrix caught

a fifteen pass around left end, placing
ballon Hampden-Sidney’s forty yard line
Harrison shot off right tackle for five
vards and then ‘oif left tackle for three
Captain Black made one over center
Harrison made cight and first down in

anick play over lefttackle. Grey carried

all 3 vards‘off right tackle. Tlendrix made

one around right end. A pass from Black
failed. Davidson made first down on pass
tao Pinkney. Tlarrison was thrown fora
Hendrix made

Pass to Jim TWendrix

loss on fifteen yard line,
five off left tackle.
failed as he went high in the air to get
it. Laird’s place kick was wild. Lyons
made two vards ever center as half end-

ed,

Seore, Davidson 6, Hampden-Sidney

first downs Davidson five, TL-S. 5.
Third Quarter

Legeette returned kiekoff 23 vards to
Davidson's 43-vard line. Legette drove
through left tackle for three; Hendrix re-
peated for same gain. Grey's pass was
grounded. Grey punted 30 yards, Brin-

returning three. Palmer made
left tackle. Pass
to Atkins gained cighteen yards, placing
ball on HWampden-Sidney's qo-yard line.
Brinser’s pass failed.
over right tackle. Pass failed and Brin-
soer punted to Grey, who returned the

ser one

over from Edmunds

Brinser gained four

hall nine yards to Davidson's 29-yard
line. Roberts stopped Hendrix for no
gain around left end. Grey punted so

yards, Brinser returning cight.
stopped Palmer

Melton
for gain. Palmer
caught a pass from Binser for four yards.
Atkins Brinser punted 46
yards, Grey returning sixteen to David-
son's 36-yard line, but Davidson was pen-
alized five yards, and ball given to Hamp-
den-Sidney on own 33-yard line. Atkins
made a great driving end run for twenty
yards around the left his line.
Davidson again off-side. Palmer
made three over center, carrying ball to
Davidson's 33-yard line,
first down.

no

missed one,

side of

Was

Edmunds made
srinser piled through right
tackle for four and then for two. Pal-
mer made first down through the center
of; the line. McConnell stopped Palmer
on next play for small gain. Atkins
whisked around left end for five yards.
' Palmer made two as he carried ball out-
side. Brinser-Atkins pass good for five
yards and first down on Davidson's six-
jyard line. Edmunds made three over
|center. Nisbet and Laws stopped Palmer
{for no gaia: Atkins made two over cen-
|ter. Davidson stiffeXed, but ball went
}over by few inches, Atkins carrying it, |
| Tom Baker saved the day for the Wild-
late by, blocking the place kick. Score,
Davidson 6; Hampden-Sidney 6.
Black returned kick-off eighteen yards |
to Davidson’s 38-yard line. Nisbet shot |
(Continued on page 8) |

Grey punted 30 yards out- |

Edmunds made one over cen- |

MeCombs

Attractive Speakers to
Appear Before Y.M.C.A.

Students to Benefit by Hearing
Some of Foremost Speakers in
South in Coming Vesper

Services

The Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College
has been unusually successful this year.
The which this organization
has been making thus far, and the in-

progress

At Westhampton College classes are

conducted in Student Government for

the benefit of the Freshmen. They are

conducted by members of the Student

Council and upperclassmen. Instruction
is given regarding the rules and regula-
tions of the college to supplement the in-
formation given in the Handbook of the
Student Government. All Freshmen and
new men are reqhired to meet regularly

with the classes.—Yellow Jacket.

terest which has been shown to make »)
this progress possible, in a large part é
can be attributed to the quality of the C ll S ry
speakers who have been coming to de- 0 ege tatione
liver addresses at the “Y" Vesper services. =
J. M. Garrison has been wide awake on ; ‘
the job and not only has he gotten ca- Attention of Davidson
pable speakers thus far but he has some ° $
of the very best scheduled for every Sun- students Is directed to
day evening for the rest of the year. \ the special prices now
On next Sunday, Dr. C, W. Somerville $
will address the students. Dr. Somerville | effective oe our college
Was pastor of the Westminster Presby- stationery
terian Chureh of Memphis, Tenn. where |
he is both well-known and loved by the |
people there. This year, he is professor 100 CALLING CARDS FOR
of Bible in Queens College, Charlotte
Rev. Edgar Wood will meet with the | FIFTY CENTS
M. CG. AL on the third Sunday. of |
this month. Rev. Mr. Wood is now pas- | 100 LETTERHEADS AND EN-
tor of the First Presbyterian Chureh of |
Salisbury where he has shown his VELOPES, ONE DOLLAR
nee as oa real man and Christian re)
Worker, Co]
Dr. Joseph Ro Sevier is another man B & R. STATIONERY C0.
ar comes 1. Pui) : ‘ollege with the 4 BETHESDA, ILL.
Mehest of reeommendations He has L
shown himself to be a leader amonye men |S
and it is with pleasure that the students
learn of his coming. Te is president ot |
the Passifern School at Hendersonville, 1 1
NLC, and will be at Davidson on the last Mooresville Enterprise
Sunday of this month, | ee NG
For the first “Y" serviee in Decomber, | MOORBSVILE)) Nr ©
Rev. George FL Rogers will come to ad- : A Ey EET P ~day
dress the students. Rev. Mr. Rogers is Printed NOY Thursday.
pastor of the St. Peters Episcopal Chureh Job printing in all commer-
of Charlotte. The students feel that he @ cial lines.
is their neighbor and will be more than er 5: 1 eee
glad to have him with them, Advertising rates anc Laer)
ie eae ; on work furnished on appli-
Phe last "WY" serviee before Christmas Maas
Will be a@ musical program altogether and cation.
there will be variety in that.
P .
LET US FIX YOU FOR THAT HUNT
We have a good line of shotguns to sell or to rent. Rates $1.00
per day. Also dependable shells
Ie MOORESVILLE BICYCLE SHOP, Mooresville, N. C.
\e —y
Q seeosesceee
: NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President I, W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asat. Trust Officer
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President T.S.McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at
your best at all times. LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.
Next to Postal Telegraph P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr:
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
. e 4
Prompt attention to orders for
fine Ice Cream
| STATESVILLE, N. C.
visicalacael

