6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

Famous Student of Political Science

Miss Sarah Wambaugh Delivers |
Learned Address Before At-
tentive Audience in
Shearer Hall

“The Making of a New World,” was
the subject of the address delivered last
Monday night by Miss Sarah Wambaugh
to an unusually large and interested au-
dience at Shearer Hall. Miss Wam-|
baugh dwelt chiefly on the organization
and work of the League of Nations and
some of the great international problems
that have confronted that body.

The speaker is quite an authority on
Political Science and has gained inter-
national prominence by her interest in
and constant efforts in behalf of plans
for world, peace. She is a member of
the Secretariat of the League of Nations,
three sessions of which she has attended.
This has given her an opportunity of
coming in contact with the leading: dip-
jomats from all over the world, and of
becoming intimately acquainted with
the problems of the different nations.

Miss Wambaugh began by presenting a
graphic picture of the delegates in as-
sembly. They are seated downstairs in
alphabetical order, the visitors and spec
tators looking from the gallery.
Fifty-five nations, with the recent admis-
sion of the free-state Ireland, are mem-
bers of this league, and send delegates
each year to Geneva, Switzerland, where
the league convenes every September.
Miss Wambaugh stated that Labor Day
was not nearly so important to the Amer-,,
ican people as the same day was to the
peoples of Europe, because they thought
of that day as the time when the League
would meet again.

on

A very interesting part of the address
was the description of the different em-
bassies and the characters in each.
Among these were Macdonald, head of
the English delegation, Heriot, head of
the French delegation, Benetzch, head of
the Czecho-Slovakian delegation, and
many others prominent in international
affairs. Benetzch, the last named, was
probably more responsible than any oth-
er one individual for the accomplish-
ments and results of the last session.

English and French were the official
languages of the assembly. After each
speech was made it was translated into
the other tongues.  Treland adopted |
French as its official language in prefer-
ence to English.

In formulating the points to the Pro-
tocol disarmament and arbitration were
the chief points considered, It was
agreed that any nation that refused to!
abide by the decision of the league would
automatically become the aggressor,
England and France favored granting
the league obligatory jurisdiction in all
legal matters and also wanted compul- |
Sory arbitration, Another point spon- |
sored by a good many countries was the |
right to make partial treaties among |
themselves. There was considerable dis-

Davidson Faculty Will
be Increased to Care
for Large | Enrollment

Professors Lilly and Arrowood Ac-
cept Offers and Will Arrive
For Fall Term

Davidson College will have next year
two new professors in addition to the
assistant professors whose names have

‘already been given in a previous issue of
‘the Davidsonian. In the English depart-

ment Prof. Henry T. Lilly has been call-
ed to one of the chairs and he has ac-
cepted. He is an A. B. graduate of the
class of 1918 and was a very prominent
member of the student body. He has
received the Master of Arts degree from
Princeton University and has also studied
a year cach in Vienna and Oxford, Eng-
land. He will have had _ five
teaching experience, the last two years
in the Presbyterian College of South
Carolina.

To fill the Chair of Religious Educa-
tion and Sociology, Rev. Charles Flinn
Arrowood has been called. Dr, Arrowood
is also an old Davidson man, graduating

years 0

with the A, B. degree in the class of
1909. He has also received the B. A.
degree from Union Theological Sem-

inary, Richmond; A. M. from Rice In-
stitute, Houston, Texas; and Ph.D. from
Cum Laude University of Chicago. He

has taught in public schools and Elise! banquet is being planned.

High School in North Carolina. For sev-
eral years he was a pastor in Texas and
taught part time in Rice Institute during
two of these years. He was professor in
Southwestern Presbyterian College three
years and is again teaching in Rice In-
stitute. Dr. Arrowood comes to David-
son well equipped for good work. Bot!
he and Professor Lilly are sons of the
Presbyterian manse and come of the
soundest of orthodox parentage.

A SAD MISTAKE

A young soldier had been brought up
for insubordination. The Court Martial
was about to begin. The old Colonel in
charge of the court was not a West
Point product, but a graduate of an R.
(0), 10, C,,

“Be seated, gentlemen,
Colonel. :

He looked at the boy before him, a
handsome youth, whose clean cut, smil-

school.

”

thundered the

Extensive Plans Made
Addresses Large Davidson Audience |

for Entertainment of
N. C. Press Association

Dr. Frazer Hood to Deliver One of
the Principal Addresses to
College Writers

When Thursday, Friday and- Saturday,
April 30, May 1 and 2, roll around, Davidson
will be the host for the annual convention of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Asso-

‘ciation.

Practically every college publication in the
state, of every nature, will send a represen-
tative to this convention. Those planning the
entertainment are expecting between 35 and

/ 40 delegates.

One question which will come up for dis-
cussion during the business sessions will be
the admission of the Chowanian, a publica-

\tion coming from Murfreesboro, N. C., into

' the association.

Dr. Fraser Hood, of the Davidson fac-
ulty, has been asked to make a talk on some
phase of psychology in its relation to jour-
nalism. Dr, Hood has not as yet announced
his subject, but no matter what subject he
speaks on, the convention is sure to enjoy a
treat. The program committee, of which
Ernest Milton, of Davidson, is the conven-
tion-college representative, is also planning
to have a speaker from Charlotte to address
the delegates.

Plans for the entertainment of the guests
are well under way and it will be done to
make the convention's visit to Davidson one

On
Thursday night, April 30, there will be an
informal reception, and for Friday night a
Efforts are also
being made to arrange a baseball game for
Friday afternoon,

of pleasure as well as one of benefit.

At this convention a vote will be taken as
to the best college paper published in North
At Elon last year The Davidson-
ian won this honor by an overwhelming vote,
and as the paper has improved under able
leadership this year, it stands an excellent
chance to receive this honor when the bal-
lots are cast again here at Davidson the first |
day of May.

Carolina.

Concluding the convention there will) be
an election of offcers for the ensuing year.

DRAMATIC CLUB PLANS
PRESENTATION OF PLAYS

|

The Davidson Dramatic Club, planning |
a series of monthly meetings at which |
one or more original one-act plays will |
be presented, is inaugurating a new sys- |
tem of dramatic development among the |
students. The plays will be produced |

/ginning to bud, even as do the leaflets

jthat the winter referred to by A. S. M.

Junior Speakin
Ushers in Malady
of Dream Fevers

With the advent of the Junior Speak-

ing siesta comes dreams on the part of

several of. the Davidson — students:
Dreams, not mental hallucinations, but
dreams to carry the heart into fond re-
pose. Most of the boys affected by this
far-away and ethereal repose find at the
tnd of their dreams the identical end.
Peering into the veil of the future even
farther than the eye can see he sees in
the distant thoughts of summer and the
summer time.

Sam Summers, the tiny tot from Ma-
rion Junction in the Alabama state, is
chief of these day-dreamers. Since he
has been exposed to the course in sub-
conscious psychology, he has not had an
easy moment. Dreaming of the days of
long ago when he used to feel so big and
rough. When he thinks of how he has
changed, he can not help dreaming of
times when he can revert once more to
the surroundings, of his childhood and
become his dear one’s little Percival once
more.

Another addict of the dreaming craze
is Semryl Bryant, midget but powerful
cheer-leader of Davidson College. His
case is a peculiar one involving many
and simultaneous psychological precepts
and has so far been unsolved, even by
experts. The chief symptom in his case
is a constant reverie in which a coy little
blonde demands a commandeering role
and draws Sem nearer and nearer to his
diploma, that is, as far as thoughts can
draw him.

Forrest Franklin is dreaming of the path
in which he homeward wends his weary
way at the end of collegiate activities
with the sighing belief that his dreams
will be long in their realization. Soon,
however, commencement will catch him
with his longings too acutely realized
and his song will turn to the long and
sweetly melodious ballad, “Oh horsie,
jump that first stump, my turn will come
next.”

Junior Speaking draws to a realiza-
tion of the entire student body the fact

Hutchinson has come and spring is but
a little distance ahead, Plans are be-
on the trees, and within the next six
weeks Davidson men will be smilingly
and sighingly turning their weary foot-
steps homeward to rest in ease and
plenty away from the gruesome toil of
regular classes and extortionate lessons
including reviews, once Junior Speaking

ing features made a deep impression on and presented before audiences, com-!j, past,

jall who knew him or even saw him.

“What school are you from?” asked the
colonel,

The boy told him.

“Ah,” replied the colonel, “Iam a grad-
uate of the dear old place myself. And
tell me is the old prof who shot so many |

boys still teaching?”

“No,” replied the boy, “he died last written by C. F. Smith, is entitled, “One| tne fe

year,”
A pleased smile crept across the col-

posed of interested persons, and from}
the list of plays presented at the month- |
ly meeting will be picked the best plays |
for presentation at the commencement
festivities,

The first of the plays to be presented,
under the new system, will be offered on
the evening of March 27th. The play,

|
|
with the Show;” and is one of the best
pieces of dramatic writing that Smith

agreement over this point, France par-/onel’s face. At last the ambition of years has done this year. Full of cemedy and)

ticularly objecting to it.

However, the had been achieved. And yet he was not’ pathos combined, the play will keep the

? yey) nN ; -|
Protocol was finally brought as near as,as happy as he should have been. Why audience swayed between emotions of |

Possible to satisfying all parties con-|should others have to suffer as he had joy and sorrow.

cerned, and was ratified by a unanimous |
vote of the delegates. Unfortunately for |

done?

He thought of the R. O. T. C. The

The cast, chosen for the presentation
of the play, is as follows:

the world, this Protocol has not yet gone |long made up drills. The parades. The Smiley Jackson, a clown

into effect, the British government hav-
ing never ratified it. Baldwin, the pres- |
ent premier, deems it inadvisable to fol- |
low the policy of his predecessor, Mac-,
donald,

Miss Wambaugh paid a tribute to the |
work of the league and expressed her
firm conviction that it would live. She
regretted that the United States was not
a member, and that our newspapers did
not publish fair accounts of the work of |
the league. The only other nations not |

belonging to. the league are E uador,|as your names are called.” That was a
q ’ |

Turkey, Germany, and

Russia. The

|target pits. Then he though of his old

company. As a freshman and a sopho-
more he had been its pride. He could
go from right shoulder to port with only
one mistake, from port to order with on-
ly two and he could almost do at ease
perfectly. And he had hated it. The
boy hated it too. Ah he would let him
off. Hé had only “horsed” the top ser-
geant. The colonel thought of the top
sergeant in his company, who shouted
“Right shoulder arms and come to order
hardboiled Junior.

The colonel’s name

C. W. Williams |
S. F. Bryant

| Toto, a clown
Ed. Whitlow
‘ Ringmaster
Louise, a bareback rider
Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld
Jean, Smiley's daughter
} wz Mattie Maclemore
All persons interested in writing, stag-
|ing or acting in plays are invited to be

| present.

Young women at Newcomb College in

speaker said she feared that the other |began with Z, which at that time was at| New. Orleans, according to a writer in
races of the world felt that the Anglo-|the last of the alphabet and the colonel | Collier’s Weekly, were put through an

Saxon race was sticking together for |

selfish motives, and that the world was| Then the boy spoke. “I had a brother | Thereupon they challenged the faculty ua
gradually drifting back to that state of | that must have been in school with you. |# similar test, and it/proved to be sweet

had to wait.

jintelligence test and came off badly.

: : ° | : ; | y
race separation which existed prior to | His name was Jones and he called the | CVense.

the World War. H

By an overwhelming majority the stu-
dents of Amherst College endorsed a
resolution asking the authorities to
abolish compulsory chapel attendance.

The Oxford debating team after tour-
ing the United States, took in the Uni-
versity of Hawaii before proceeding to
Australia and New Zealand.

|
I}

roll in company A.”

“I remember Jones well,” said the
colonel. “Six months in the guard
house!”

At Northwestern University a group
of Co-eds desiring to be different have

formed a club with the following motto:

degenerating into childish games.

“Liberty or Death, Preferably Death.”
They believe that love and marriage are

| Some of the answers from a group of
|23 professors were:
| Al Jolson is a wrestling champion.
| Filet Mignon is an opera by Puccini.
Brilliantine is a preparation that ladies
put into their eyes to make them shine.
Grover Cleveland Bergdoll was
World War hero.
Maraschino was prime minister of Rus-
sia before the war.

—The Brackety Ack.

a

C. F. Monk |
L. P. Cox |

Junior Speaking is just around the
corner, Every Wildcat is purring for
the chance to realize his few hours of
freedom really appreciable hours
and will anticipate the time when liberty

as

is extended for more than five days. And. !

as usual, they will be ready at the end
of that time to come back and tell all of
llows hello. Ain't it fine to be
thinking of going home? Surely
Dreaming Fever an ever
maladay when the sap begins to rise and

is

spring clothes the world in garments of

rich green.

The Fighting Wildcats

WILLIAM MINOR GRACEY
Track **

| When that little Tennessee town, Cov-
| ington, by the Mississippi, sent to Da-
|vidson her son and idol, “Bo-Peep”
Gracey she wasn’t aware that this lad
| was destined to carve his.name in the
| Wildcat Hall of Fame. But such is life!
|“Bo-Peep” is here—but be it regretfully
|added—for his last year.

| ¥ea! When Fresh Gracey walked out
fon the track for the first time as green
jand simple looking as the rest of them,

jan
\little did he dream that he would one
|

the ;
college |

day be captain of Davidson’s Varsity
team—nor did he know that he would
ever make the varsity. But he did—and
that—his Freshman year. He had made
a record for himself in High School, but,
now, behold! he is hailed as the best all-
round track man Davidson College has
ever called her son.

Gracey is a track team in himself. He
throws the javelin, he puts the shot. He
jumps the bar, and he vaults the pole.
And he excels in all. But in high hurdles
he is best. He held the state record for
two years, and would probably hold it
still had not Fate pointed at him her
crooked phalanges. The witnesses of the
State Olympic meet in Durham last year
will not soon forget this Wildcat, who
had lost his right shoe before he had
reached the second hurdle, but who
finished that race with one foot bare,
and hardly one foot behind the winner.
Nor will his opponents in the V. P. I.
meet last year forget the lad who won
threé first places, a second, and a tie for
second, «carrying off the honors of the
contest with twenty points.

But “Bo-Peep” is more than a great
athlete. He has just finished serving a
term as president of the Metrophilian
Literary Society. He is treasurer of the
Senior Class, he an Omicron Delta
Kappa and a member of the Pi Kappa
Phi Fraternity. Great things are
pected of “Bo-Peep” this season.

1s

ex-

Minnesota University now publishes
the largest university newspaper in the
world, according to reports from that in-
stitution, their publication having the
largest circulation, greatest amount of
college reading and most substantial ad-
vertising of any college daily newspaper
on the globe.

III III III IIT}

This is a terrible supposi-

tion, but just suppose that
you were to be married to-
night and, when you awoke
this morning, found that
all of your clothing had

been stolen.

You could just walk into
our store and get re-trous-
seaued in a little of no
time---suits, shoes, hats,

shirts, ties, sox, pajamas
and even the luggage to

carry it in---and when the
preacher arrived you'd be
“all set” for the weddin’.

Of course, you’re not go-
ing to be married tonight,
but this just shows you
how complete our stock
of men’s things is---and
how quick the service.

|

_| NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For
Davidson Men

