THE DAV

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. CG MAY 7; 1925

University Trackmen Win State Honors
As Three Southern Records Are Broken |

‘Mrs. Robson Will
- Address Students
at Y.M.C.A. Meet

Mrs. A. B. who well
i} known by the student body, will speak at
the Y service on next Sunday, evening,

The annual statewide track meet was) May loth. Mrs. Robson has arranged
held at the University of North Carolina | lher talk around the general topic
last Friday and Saturday. Carolina ran |“ Mother’s Day.” A. M, Martin is trying
away with the honors getting 108 1- 2) to arrange special musical program in
points and capturing first place for the | addition to Mrs. Robson’s talk. Mrs.
fourth consecutive year. State proved | Robson has been a true and patient
to be a poor runner-up with 55; and Da-; Mother for the boys who have been

Carolina Runs Away | With Meet for
Fourth Consecutive Year

WILDCATS ARE THIRD

Calhoun Shares First Honors in
High Jump With Matthews
of State

Robson, is so

of

vidson came in third totaling only 19 1-2/0 Unfortunate as to be sick during their |

counters, Wake Forest and Duke trailed | Stay at Davidson. She always greets you
the field making 16 and 11 points respec- with a smile, and it’s a smile that makes
tively. Three state records fell before | | you feel good. The Student body is very

the most brilliant array of college track | anxious to hear Mrs. Robson, as

she

and field men yet assembled in North | Will only consent’to speak every four |

Carolina, thus allowing each college stu-

Calhoun was the only Davidson entry | dent the opportunity of hearing her, so
to take a first place and he was forced to |the Y is fortunate indeed in having the
share his honor with Matthews, State’s Opportunity to get Mrs, Robson, for the
star high jumper. The Wildcats had! Mother’s Day program.
six men to reach the finals and every| - Mr. J. P. Williams, Secretary of the
one of them succeeded in placing in one | Y, will speak on May 17th at the Y ves-
event. Goodykoontz, Davidson’s best|per. Mr. Williams is leaving Davidson,
bet in the dashes, came in second to !and will follow another work for next
Byrum in the 220-yard dash, and An-' year. Under his guidance the Y
derson out-vaulted all the entries with
the exception of one man, “Red” Mc-
Comb hurled the javelin over 150 feet to |
get third place in this event, while Mc-
Millan won a third in the broad jump
and McConnell was circling the track
twice on the 880 and crossing the line
in fourth place.

The meet was run off before a group

(Continued on page 8)

| years;

proven to be a real Christian gentleman
and a fine straight-forward friend, to
all those -who have called upon him, to
help in solving their problems.
liams has not announced his subject for
the Y service, but it is well known that
it will be a message from his heart. The
Davidson men are always ready to turn
(Continued on page 5)

Spanish Night Feraches Students With
Amusing Round of Unique Entertainment |

Increased Faculty Will
be Used Here Next Year

New Instructors Will be Added to
Faculty Next Term Says
Announcement

No longer may the time-honored bull
hold full sway over his Davidson strong-
hold. After having been tortured by the
darts of the picadors and having made
a gallant fight against the flashy meta-
dor, he succumbed after a plucky and
prolonged struggle last Friday night.
The first bull fight held on the Hill was
a decided success from every angle. The
program was arranged and produced by
the combined Spanish Club of Queens
and Davidson. All of the plays given
were spoken in Spanish, like wise the
popular songs that were rendered by
the chorus.

Announcement has been made by Dr.
W. J. Martin that two instructors will
be added to the faculty next year. Mr.
H. E. Fulcher comes as to
| Doctor Douglas in the Physics départ-
ment and Prof.
chosen

Guy R. Vowles has been
to succeed Professor Clarke of

The program opened with a Spanish ¢, German department. Mr. M. C. S.

selection by the symphony orchestra, Nefita, Je, has bean aaamed ag a ai
“ : my : ran svat ‘ s : ‘ =
La Golandrina” and the Spanish at- stitute for Doctor Hood, who has been
mosphere was reproduced throughout

granted leave of absence for next year.

Mr. H. E.‘ Fulcher is a Bachelor and
Master of Physics in the University of
Virginia where he received part of his
training. The rest he got at William and
Mary. He has taught and served as
principal in the public schools of Vir-
ginia and comes highly reo&mmended by
the department of Physics at the Uni-
versity.

the remainder of the performance.

This was followed by a Spanish. farce,
“Juan Rana Comilon.” Before the play
began Professor Fleagle gave a short
resume in English to aid those in the

_ audience who did not speak Spanish.
J. R. Talley was especially good in his
interpretation of the Spanish glutton.
Miss Frances Johnson also was a star
in this playlet.

The next selection was from the
chorus, “La Terruca.” This preceded a
farce presented by the Spanish Club from
Queens. Miss West, head of the Span-
ish department at Queens, starred in
this. She was ably assisted by six oth-
er young ladies from Queens. Another
selection from the chorus followed this,
“Leonese Song.”

Another farce, “Los Bunuelos” was
next presented. The cast was comp»
posed of members of the local Club. Af-
ter this the chorus sang, “Cancion de la
Manana.” Popular songs, translated in-

(Continued on page 5)

Professor Vowles was graduated with
the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1906

institution in North Dakota.
to 1910 he was a Rhodes Scholar at Ox-
ford, England, where he acquired the
Bachelor of Arts degree in 1910 in the
“Honor School of Modern Languages
in German. In 1914 he received the Mas-

tution. The following year he spent in
Germany among carefully chosen fam-
ilies.

and was Dean of that
(Continued on page 3)

this |
year, has done a great work. He has |

Mr. Wil- |

DAVIDSONIAN CHOSEN
AS BEST COLLEGE
PAPER

For
The
by

the’second consecutive time,
Davidsonian
the
Press

chosen
North Carolina Collegiate
Association as the

has been
best col-
This

the
news

lege newspaper in the State.
honor up

was conferred

in

on
its
its editorial policy, and its
general make-up.

The editors feel, that in
measure their time and effort spent
in the publishing of this paper has
not been unrewarded. The student
body has stood behind the paper at
all times and have always shown a
lively interest in it. The alumni
have not been unconscious of the
fact that The Davidsonian has been
ever behind the college, working
for its advancement, smiling inthe: ,
face of defeat, and pulling for the
best interests of the student body.

paper recognition

stories,

some

The newly-electd staff hope to
continue the good work that has

been done during the past two
years, and to establish a new
record of which the college will

have good reason to be proud, On-
ly, by the co-operation of the fac-
ulty and of the student body can_
the paper continue the high stand-
ard that has been set; to do this
will be the aim of the present
board during the ensuing year,

Davidson Students Plan
to See European States
Numerous Shiau and Faculty

Members Will Leave for
Europe in June

The coming summer months will find

; several members of the Davidson faculty

| sor Goldiere

from Fargo College, a Congregational '
From 1907 |

" New

ter of Arts degree from the same insti-'

|

institution for | tact.

in France and other
neighboring countries across the Atlan-
tic. To some the trip will be a novel ex.
perience but to Dr. Lingle and Profes-
the trip will be less new as
they have been over before. Dr. Lingle
makes his seventeenth trip this sum-
mer while Professor Goldiere obtained
his former experience when.he went over
in the service of his country.

Dr. Lingle leaves New York in com-
pany with Dr. Shewmake on June 13th
on board the Leviathan, Dr. Shewmake,

land student body

who is making his initial voyage, will
spend six weeks or more in England

studying at the University of London and
the library of the British Museum. He
will then spend a short time in a tour
of Europe. Dr. Lingle will spend six
weeks at the Sourbonne studying in the
Biblioteque Nationale, which is the
largest national library in the world. Af-
ter this period of study Dr. Lingle an-
ticipates visiting with French friends of
war times who reside in different parts
of France. He also expects to see some-
thing of Jules DuFour, Davidson, ’90,
who is professor of English in the Col-
lege de Geneve (Geneva) which was
founded by John Calvin in 1536.

Miss Orrie Steele will also sail on the
Leviathan with a tourist party under a
professor of Winthrop College. This
party .will make a general sightseeing
tour of Europe.

Dr. C. R. Harding will sail on the
Homeric of the White Star line, leaving
York, June 6,
American University professors. Dr.
Harding in the interest of the Greek lan- |
guage will spend a large part of the}
summer in Greece and Italy seeing old |

From IgII to 1922 he was profes- | historic sights and learning something |

sor of German in Fargo College College) epout the people through personal con-/ wear paper caps of Napoleonic shape for

time in | several days before the initiation.
\ (Continued on page 6)

After spending . some
(Continued on page 3)

| —

| Discuss Proteins

with a group of |

North Carolina Collegiate Editors Held
Successful Convention Here Last Week

Press Association “Delégates Hear

Davidson Chemists Fine se eabare Doctor Frazer

at State College) pavipsontan HonoRED

The North Carolina Academy

Carolina University will Entertain
Science held its annual meeting at North Association at its Next Semi-
Carolina State College on Friday and Annual Conclave
Saturday last week. The meeting —-
was held jointly with the North Carolina The ninth semi-annual meeting
the American Chemical and} North Carolina Collegiate Press Associa-
societies. The presidential ltjon was held at Davidson College, April 30
address was delivered by Doctor Ar-Jand May 1 and 2. Thirty-one delegates rep-
buckle, of Davidson College, president | resenting the different North Carolina col-
(of the executive committee, Over one }jege publications were the guests of The
hundred scientists present and | Dapidsonian and the Davidson College Mag-
many interesting on certain} azine during these three days. The program
i phases of scientific were pre-lof the convention included two business ses-
| sented, sions convening at 9:00 a.m. and two ad-

Doctor 11:30 m, on both
| Professor Thies, presented his fourth | Friday and-Saturday;—Phe-first address was
|paper on variations of proteins in corn.| given by Mr. J. A. Parham, the managing
| Their work for the past year has estab- editor of The Charlotte Observer, and the
intened the fact that fertilizer has no ef- second by Dr, Frazer Hood, professor
fect on the value proteins in corn. } Psychology and Education at Davidson Col-
"Doctor Vilbrandt, Professor of Indus-|lege. In addition to these regular sessions
trial Chemistry at the University of |there were numerous social occasions, includ-
North Carolina presented a on ]ing a reception at the home of Dr. and Mrs,
evaluation lubricating oils, wherein] H, B. Arbuckle, on Thursday evening, a
the established the fact that these pbhanquet given by The Davidsonian and the
are incapable of serving all purposes that | Davidson College Magazine, Friday even-
they are applied, especiafly in the pres-|ing, and a luncheon with the Reporters’ Club
ence of intense heat. has host on Saturday.

Other interesting papers on Chemistry,! The convention officially opened at 9 00

|
well Biology and Mathematics | o'clock Friday morning with a business meet-
were presented, but the subject of Evolu-

ling held in the Eumenean Literary Society

tion was avoided. Doctor Arbuckle was |hall. The Association was welcomed in be-

to the executive committee. |half of the Davidson students by J, U. Hen-

of the next regular meeting |drix, in behalf of The Davidsonian by (6105

Smith, and in behalf of the Davidson College
(Continued on page 8)

of

of

of the

division of
Mathematic

were
papers
research
Arbuckle, in collaboration with

dresses beginning at a

ot

of

paper
of

oils

as as

reelected

The place

will probably be Winston-Salem.
(Continued on page 5)

Wildcat Debaters Take Thrilling Match
From Wake Forest Orators in Charlotte

Thirteen Men Initiated —
by the Reporters Club

Five Upperclassmen Among
Initiates Into Davidsonian Re-
porters Club—Initiation is

Fighting = with Coemeaieniatic Wildeat
| spirit, the Davidson forensic trio downed the
plucky debaters from Wake Forest in
| spirited contest last Friday
Queens College auditorium,
Roland Parker, Yancey Bowie, and Don
Wharton upholding the negative of the query

a

on night in

Exciting | Resolved, That Congress should be empower-

a ed to override by two-thirds vote decisions

Immediately after the movie Satur- of te Supreme Court 7 which declare acts of
day night, May 2 the recently elected | Congress unconstitutional,” were ably op-
members of the Reporters’ Club were | posed by O. L. Norment, C, R. Holmes, and
initiated into its membership at. the |J- J. Tarlton, of Wake Forest.
gym. The men who went through the; Norment opened the argument for the at-

initiation assert that its memory will re- | firmative and forcefully attacked the ultra-
main in their minds for many a year at _ conservatism the Supreme Court after
the least, and miaintain that the rituals ‘defining the issues of the debate.

and ceremonies of the event were
cellently performed—perhaps a trifle too
well performed.

of
ex- Roland Parker was at his best in a well-
| planned and strikingly delivered opening
speech in which he met squarely the charge

The initiation began a little after 9:30|in regard to the necessity of the change. He
and was completed at 11:40, according to : showed that the change was unnecessary on
the shouts and yells which were con-/ account of the character and record of the
tinually heard from the basement of the | court, the present restrictions, the court's at-
gym. The old members enjoyed the titude toward Congressional legislation, and
ceremony extremely well; but while oth- the fact that the people did not wish to dele-
er yells were heard occasionally, one | gate the proposed powers to Congress.

could hardly say that they were screams} (© R, Holmes ably defended the affirma-

of enjoyment. tive arguments by pointing oft that the
The new members were exactly13 in| change would not remove any great powers
number. They apparently were aware | from the court, that it was not radical, and

{that such a numbr was unlucky, but, of | would not call for great changes in the gov-
course were unable to remedy it. Of ernment.
‘the 13.men whé were initiated, five were! Yancey Bowie in his characteristically ef-
/upper classmen: Kenneth Bell, Wade Al- | fective style clearly and concisely developed
lison, W. S. Gordon, J. B. Webb, and/the negative scheme of proof by showing
H. L. Shelby. The remaining eight were | the disrupting effect on the American gov-
freshmen: Boyce Martin, Caldwell With-|crnment that would follow the proposed
ers, Walter Anderson, ©. L. Douglass, | change.
\J. F. Hollingsworth, J. P. McKnight,, J. J. Tarlton coli the affirmative’s
Ben Wilson, and J. G. Wharton. constructive argument by pointing out the
All the above. men were compelled to | merits of the proposed plan in a well-thought
Var speech,
Don Wharton impressed the audience ‘with

The
| (Gontinued on page 5)
