THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925 x

Staple and Fancy Groceriés

Quantity
Quality
Service

H. M. JOHNSTON

Phone 20

Sweet Young Thing—"I'd like to buy a
petticoat.”

Floor Walker—"“Antique department
on third floor, Miss.”

Bohannon—"When you were in Enu-
rope, Joe, did you go up the Rhine?”

McConnell—“Sure. Fine view from the
top too,”

“T call my girl ‘Grapefruit.’”
“Why?”
Wrigley’s increases the “Because every time [ squeeze her she
fiswicticalivacand relieves hits me in the eye.”
that “stuffed” feeling. Clears
the throat, steadies nerves The bootleggers
and sweetens the breath.
Cleans teeth too.

“Niggah, how come you takin’ dat

F58
“Costs little-helps much” 5 ‘

‘ é razor to de dance?
“Dis is gwine to be a cuttin’ dance.”
Little Spee MeConnell’s weekly bed-
time story:

One upon a time there was a girl, she

was the only daughter of the village dog-
e 7 . e

When in Charlotte take your catcher, One day a slick city fellow

came in town, and took her to dinner at

meals at the a cafe. While there, he committed a ter-

3 rible error; he fed the dog-catcher's
S & WwW Cafeteria daughter on raw meat. She immediately

national anthem is
“Coming thru with the Rye.”

became sick—had a terrible attack of
— hydrophobia. The next day she died.
The city fellow should have fed her on

Merchants & Farmers liver—for raw meat makes dog-people
National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. BLANK VERSE

“The wind is blowing through the trees;

$$8 i The old gray mare is on her knees;

I feel quite like a piece of cheese—

I have a cold, and cannot sneeze.

FAMOUS HEARTS

Havenarssticses Poveeeeee

Siuyersscawsuuses trouble,

4% paid on Savings Accounts Giiiekengo ie ed
and Certificates Clee ol eee broken.

Depesite All|) cece y.

Checking Accounts Invited ||) = =------------- BLCEHUIODE:

Those Frozen Eclairs!!
Um! Um!
Where Do They Come From?

The Selby Ice Cream Co.

STATESVILLE, N. C.

Cerro

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.

Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C
“Not Cheap Furniture, but
Good Furniture Cheap”

We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50c each

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Dealerstin

Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies

PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

| sae : EAK AT
Fraternities to Build , PA'GLDER BOYS’ CONFERENCE
Own Houses Near Hill Dr. C. M. Richards .and Harry Price

| were speakers at a County Older Boys’
\Conference held at Rutherfordton Fri-
day, Saturday and Sunday. About two
hundred boys were present at the confer-
ence, which began with a banquet Fri-
(day night.

Board of Trustees Revise House
Rules—Present Halls to be
Vacated

The Davidson fraternities are to have
homes of their own, This statement is :
one which embodies a forward move-| Dr. Richards spoke twice, addressing
ment on the campus at Davidson. For | the boys Saturday afternoon and mak-
several years the chapters here have ing the final address on Sunday after-
been hoping for favorable action from) Noon. On Saturday morning Harry
the trustees. The first ray of hope ap-, Price made a talk on The High Way and the
|peared last commencement when per- | Low Way,
mission was given to the chapters to —
build, but under such adverse conditions On Monday, Mrs. Avery Hobbs was called
Ithat the fraternities deemed it best to! to Charlotte to attend the funeral of her
wait until the Board of Trustees should! mother. Her friends extend sympathy in this
relent a little more. At their last meet-| s0 great bereavement.
ing, during the closing days of February,
“That that is comma is semicolon that they gave the subject their attention and

that is not comma is not semicolon that) presented to the chapters at Davidson N 9 S
te atton Ale net} ark.” .
is it comma is it not question mark. plans whereby house dreams might come

true.

The famous word quip: “That that is
is that that is not is not that is it is it
not,”

should read:

Heard at the asylum: Under the new plan, the trustees sug- Barber Shop
Where you going? gest that the fraternities build on a
Down to the river to sleep, selected piece of college land, paying to
Sounds tishy—where you going to sleep the college a nominal rental. On the The Best
down there? collection of fifty per cent of the money,

i
Inthe river bed. work is to go forward to competion, the, in | Oo W n

What are you goingto use for cover? college Jending the remaining portion. | ON-
Sheets of water. This proposed home is to be of three | A eT Cour

Has the bed of the river got any Teoms and a kitchenette afd not to ex- |

springs ? ceed five thousand dollars in cost. This |
No, but there's plenty of current in at Plan was given as merely the preferred |

to make it light—-the river's a good place schedule of operations by the trustees. || EMPLOYMENT FOR STUDENTS

to sleep in. Should this meet with the disapproval | puyg 1s YOUR OPPORTUNITY
Can | bank on that? of the interested parties, the trustees If you intend to work during tbe reise
Lama SAAIE-OAE-AP : | ssted i i rove f of ing it will pay you to investigate
Yes, you can't get around it )suaaested aiid apptoved of the followin) mseeet SC ROE oui vera ices te
Well I've got to run on. | live down plan for a home: religious can To a ae ete ceanioved
by the lake myself—drop in some times.) Phe chapter desiring to do so may Lav aRTneSHInaVernG further worries concern-
rent, buy or build a house with dormi-}] ing finances for the next pl A EY
meres | ° ° ires ou oO a
Collegiate Definiti tory space for the entire chapter, ex Hie esinerihepportunity of earning, ‘several
bit beach etal at cluding freshmen. Dining facilities are MEGA Cate LD Dalit Cie $1,000.00
nny g , : . e rese M
Freshmen are small bodies of humanity to be supplied for the whole chapter. | last summer. Ne oe ae Ge Lae Uo
entirely surrounded by ignorance. Vhis house is to be under the supervision aA hf R treats Pe ered
Sophomores are slight swellings, Jut- of a matron who must be approved by ! Universal Book and Bible House
ting into seas of sophistication, the Executive Committee of Davidson College Departmen

t
hiladelphia, Pa.

Juniors are beings, not large enough to College. 1010 Arch Street P|

obtain seniority, bounded on two sides Some of the halls, at present occupied
by fire-water, on one side by U-Drive by a number of the fraternities, must be

[

- * . rT 1 ’ ae; . . . e

Bat and on the other side by a Dum- | vacated hy September 1, 1925-so it is! to The Ralei h
petit expected that when school reopens nest

Co-eds are the archipelogos of college fall some of the Mratennities awill be oes
Insignificant bodies, known as the re cupying homes of their own, realizing a Cs}
sult of strange discoveries by men. ldranins cohGars ‘

A Refined Dining Room

The Faculty—but why go on, | MOFFETT TELLS OF TASK OF for Particular
Father—"How are you getting on in) CHOOSING LIFE’S WORK
| aa

school now?” |
4 . LS rt . To're sary -— , :
Young Son— Fine, We're learning) ‘The Volunteer Band held its regular
words of four cylinders now.”

jmecting last Sunday morning in the
lgymnasium, The meeting opened with
Tcallla short song service, after which Mof-
money ‘John,’ I'm not familiar enough |fett and Eddington led? the house in
with it to call it ‘Jack.’” |

Average Student—"I’m so broke

| ;
}prayer. Regen conducted the devotion- |

Ee C al exercises. ) Stre:
If the college charged tuition by mak- Spoofy Moffett was the speaker el 221 West Trade Street

guys would go thru college and make | the problem of choosing a life work

4 ter: .
correetly. He presented the. difficulties
aro lin the choice of life work. “The only
Christenbury says he only likes two

: way to know what is right,” says the
kinds of women—those who bob their

} ) speaker, “is to go to our God and ask Ch ] tt
hair and those who don't. | ar 0 e

His guidance and direction, Try to find

out what He would have us do and then

Fire is pleasing, prepare ourselves for the work.” Transfer Company

I TERE adore mine; , After Moffett’s talk, the business of

R-ighto, brother, but the band was taken up, after which a

E-gad they shoot a line. song was rendered, The band was dis- PHONE 298

missed with prayer by Tom Barr.
We call ‘em “fire” when they're able ——

to boast of eighteen Junes; why don't The Book Lovers Club held their reg- BAGGAGE

we call the one of forty Septembers-~ ular meeting last Friday evening at the

“Ewhers”? home of Mrs. J. R. Withers. Dr. Frazer | AND TAXI

eae Hood gave a very delightful lecture on!

Monkey's are graceful; how can a fel- William James, after which a splendid | SERVICE

law go to a dance and believe in evolu-| George Washington program was carried !

ing a man pay for what he learned, some ‘the morning. He chose as his theme, | Charlotte
|
|

money,

tion? out. The guests of the evening were:!
associate members of the club;-Dr. and |

Methods to prevent so much flunking: Mrs. C. R. Harding,, Mr. and Mrs. Yates,|

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

1. Don't have exams. Mr. Bailey, and Mrs. Quellin.
2. Lower the passing mark.
3. Don't have exams.
4. Leave off Greek, Latin and Math, : :
5. Don’t have exams. Victrolas Furniture, Rugs
6. Tave the Profs. spot the students: Victor Records Draperies and
7. Add laundry number and size of = z
shoe to grade. Steinway Pianos

; Interior Decorations
8. Don't have exams.

| Player Pianos

At Davidson—1925 and Pianola
ob psy Satisfy,” he said as ie pumined| Reproducing We Make ‘Designs and Erect
a cigarette, lit it, and blew out the | i Agee
smoke. | Pianos ‘| Draperies and Carpets for
At Converse—1925 - Homes, Lodge Rooms
“They Satisfy,” she said as she threw | 0
down a College Humor and Whiz Bang | Player Piano Rolls Society Halls, Etc.

and blew out the candle.

At Cornelius—1925 q
“They Satisfy,” he said as he picked up Parker-Gardner Company
a can of Mellen’s food and a bottle of CH RL TEE; N. Cc:

Castoria and blew in his last cent to

pay for them. L

