THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER I,

19Z5

FOR A GOOD JOB
SEE US

E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP

Davidson, N. C,

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW

SNe

Many Improvements |
on College Golf Course

Efforts of Dr. Arbuckle Responsible
For Fine Course—Weather |
Slows up Work |

Wildcat Hall of Fame

“BUCK” FLOWERS
D Football

The Scotch game has already taken hold | sHetanralWOtmol eae aebrestimant

He had
of quite a number of the fellows this year | played some football at prep and high school,
and every one seems to be enjoying it.

This | but it was under Coach Bill Fetzer that he
year this section of the country has been | tearned the rudiments of the game that was
without rains all the summer and this has} jater to make him a place on the mythical
greatly hindered the work on the golf course. | AlieSouthiert:

However, recent rains have made it possible |
to improve it some, and continued improve-
ments will be made as the weather will per-
mit. The greens have been cleared of all
obstructions and the tees have been laid and
the top surface is in place. When this is
finished the course will contain nine holes
and will be in the best of shape.

There is especially one member of the fac-
ulty that has always taken a great interest in
our golf course, and it is entirely due to him
that Davidson students now have the privi-
lege of playing on one of the best nine-hole
golf courses in the South.

He came only one year to Davidson,

of his Soph year. While here he set a rec-
ord for Freshmen that few have ever equaled
and none have surpassed. He was a star
| back on that famous team of 1917, the one
| which Morgan Blake called the “Lightweight
Champions of the World.”

| It was he who scored the first points on
Tech's wonder team of the same year, a field
goal from Tech’s own 28-yard line. This
was indeed a feat when such men as Strup-
per, Guyon, Fincher, Hill, and Harlan, were
endeavoring to block that kick. His brilliant

A. R. (Buck) Flowers came to Davidson

| changing to Georgia Tech at the beginning |

THE VICTORY THEATRE

MOORESVILLE

Archie Reeves, a former Davidson stu-
dent, now at Georgia Tech, holds the record
for the course, having made it in 31 strokes,
but the performance of “Buster” Gray, of the
class of ’25, at the fifth hole, “outshines” that
of Reeves, and now the only remaining mem-
ory we have of Buster is covered by the
green of hole five.

‘Back in 1914, after the water had all been
drained off and a fertile meadow appeared,
a golf course: movement was started by Dr.
Arbuckle, and due to him it has grown into
what it is now.

PROGRAMME

>

Oct. 7-8 --- Constance Tal-
madge in “Her Night of Ro-

mance.”

Mrs. Martha Hamilton gave a party
Thursday evening, September 24th, in
honor of Miss Ellen Black. Miss Black
returned Monday to her training course
in the Presbyterian Hospital, New York
City.

Oct. 9-10---Douglas Fairbanks
in “Thief of Bagdad.”

Miss Mary Richards spent the week-
end with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M.
Richards. Miss Richards is a teacher in
the High School of Mebane, N. C.

Oct. 12-13 --- “Tongues of
Flame,” a wonderful picture.

Also Pathe News No. 76

COMPARE THE SCORES
Oct. 14-15---“‘One Night in

Rome.” 1908—Davidson 31, Wake Forest

1910—Davidson 32, Wake Forest

1912—Davidson 13, Wake Forest
1913—Davidson 6, Wake Forest
1914—Davidson 7, Wake Forest
1915—Davidson 21, Wake Forest
1917—Davidson 72, Wake Forest
1919—Davidson 21, Wake Forest
1920—Davidson 27, Wake Forest
1921—Davidson 7, Wake Forest
'1922—Davidson 6, Wake Forest
1923—Davidson 0, Wake Forest
1924—No Game.

1925—Davidson ?, Wake Forest ?

Oct. 16-17---“Stop Flisting,””
a refreshing, vivacious, whole-
some comedy.

Comedy or Pathe News reels
are run with all pictures.

-_
Qaoaonreonrnroaaon co &

WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE OF

Shirts, Hosiery, Pajamas and Shoes, every-

thing for Men’s Wear
COME IN AND GIVE US A TRIAL

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

(DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE

MAKE GOODMAN'S

YOUR HEADQUARTERS

_ ALWAYS A GOOD LINE OF STATIONERY

broken field running was noticed by the
coaches of the teams Davidson played that
| fall, and time and again he was called on to
try for point after touchdown.

During that year Davidson conquered such
teams as Furman, Auburn, V. M. I., and}
Clemson. In all of these games and others
Buck Flowers shone as a (star of the first
magnitude. Ariother remarkable fact was |
that although. Flowers carried the ball more
than any other player on Davidson's team, he |
played the entiré\.season Without a single
injury. |

“Buck” earned@his_place in the ‘Wildcat
Hall of Fame” and thoughvhe left Davidson,
it was here that he first gained recognition.
His deeds performed here will be handed |
| down as those of a great man on a_ great
team.

‘MANHOOD THEME OF

FORCEFUL TALK

|
- |

| (Continued from page 1)

|crucil test—the reserves that decide the way
| the battle shall go.” |
; In a striking manner he Bishop pictured |
ja group of boys discussing the selection of a|
|leader. The boys discussed the various at-
tributes of leadership to be found in those to |
be considered, and in each case was presented
|some short-coming in character that elimi-
|nated those under discussion, one after the
lother, fromthe honored place. Finally one
| was chosen as leader, the choice resting on}
|his character of true, faithful, sympathetic |
qualities.

“As campus leaders are selected in that
way, in life in the small, so are community
leaders in the later life chosen according to
character.

The tragedy of lives without the highest
attributes of character was brought before
the minds of the students in a manner which
impressed upon them the importance of those
highest traits.

Edgar Allen Poe, the great intellect, the
wonderful poet, was considered. Selections
from_“The Raven” and “The Bells” were
|réad, showing the unsurpassed ability of the
| poet in the field of expression. Then the
tragedy of his life, as expressed in the word
“nevermore” was made more vivid by con-
trast with the greatness of the poet. ‘Byron
also in the field of literature was pictured as
a great poet whose life was made into a
tragedy because of his character.

In the realm of power, Napoleon and
Washington were contrasted, the former
showing a life of selfishness and personal
greed for power, and deserting his forces
when they were hard-pressed, while Wash-
ington at Valley Forge endured all the hard-
ships that his men were forced to undergo,
with no thought of personal comfort or well-
being.

The picture of the duel between Hamilton
and Burr, resulting in the death of Hamilton,
and Burr's later days spent in sorrow because
of his deed of*murder, was presented.

“The way to a true, strong character,”
concluded the doctor, “is long and hard—an
uphill pull. But the result is glorious vic-
tory. Travel it, boys, at any cost.”

Much was added to the impressiveness of
the message by the personal feeling of at-
tachment which Dr. Rondthaler made with
his audience. At the close of the service he
shook the hands of the entire audience, and
though a man far along in years, his clasp
showed the strength and virility of youth.

Glen Eddington presided, reading the
scripture for the evening. Dr. J. M. Mc-
Connell introduced the speaker. Joe Mc-
Connell and Ernest Milton were called on to
lead in prayer, and T. T. Jones, C. J. Al-
bright, and Proctor Thompson rendered spe-

her opponents’ eight-yard line when the final
whistle blew. The Cornelians resorted to
trick plays and forward passes in the last
period in the vain hope that they might score.
The local boys have a fairly good team
| which should develop into a powerful efeven.
| Last Friday they played straight and steady
| football relying on a continuous pounding to
! win,

Davidson High Football

_ Team Defeats Cornelius

Continuous Pounding and Flashy
Runs Win for Plucky Little
Eleven

Playing a brand of football as steady as
effective, the Davidson High School opened |
its football season by conquering Cornelius |
Friday afternoon at Cornelius. The score |
was 7 to 0. It was a good contest from start | ._ ;
to, finish, and although the Davidsonians | North Main Street.
scored their lone touchdown in the second |
quarter, the spectators were held in suspense | During the summer Mr. T. E, Lothery
constantly as to know how the game would | built a new home on South Main Street
finally end. |next to the Phi Gam Hall.

The second. quarter saw the local boys |
begin to march down the field, which ended |

only when Williams carried the oval over the | NC
SELLERS Kitchen

last white line.
Cabinet the best

Mr. L. B. Crayton, popular manager of
the Ford agency here, has recently mov-
ed into one of the new bungalows on

In the second half Cornelius tightened up
and their offense became more effective. One
gain after another carried the ball to David- |
son's four-yard line. Here the town boys |
made a determined stand, and their line held |

| for four downs. Cornelius had the ball on |

i servant you can put

HOW THEY STAND

By scoring three touchdowns against
Guilford, and following these up by
sending the extra point sailing be-
tween the goal posts each time, Cald-
well, Duke University’s star fullback,
hopped into the lead in point of scor-
ing for North Carolina football clevens
last week.

Caldwell is far out in front, with a $|
total of 21 points.

in your Kitchen...’

SOLD IN STATESVILLE BY

Nicholson Furniture Co.

cial music, Billy Rice was pianist.

Records of Tar Heel scorers follow:
Touch- Field Try for | DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
: : downs. Goals. Pt. Total DENTIST
Caldwell, State --- 3 0 Ge Zl |
Overton, Dav. ---- 1 0 1 ) 311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
Bohannon, Dav.--- 1 0 O 6 §/] PHONES: Office, £050 CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Chakales, W.F.-. 1 0 °0 6 8) Residence, 1937.
Black, Dav. ------ 10) 20 6) 45)
McComb, Dav. --- 1 0 0 6 |
Grey, Dav, ------- 10) 0 Cre)
W. Shuford, State 1 ) W © FELLOWS
Jennette, State --. 1 0 0 6 |
Bt) , State. 1 0 |
Seas: ey 4 ; : |} We are always ready to serve
Tuttle, Duke —---- 1 0 «60 rail those delicious meals.
Settle, Duke ----- 1 0 0 6 | Come in any time
Laird, Day, ------ 0 0 4 4 |
Johnston, State --- 0 0 1 1 | The New York Cafe
Bynum, State ---. 0 0 1 1
ee ee ely eel |
This cca 15 0 10 100 §| Charatan Ne:
|

PHONE 24 ANY ? HOUR OF THE 24

Charlotte, N. C.

Barra

YELLOW CAB CO.

QUALITY SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE

CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES

Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it
with you as you go

e Display Room every Friday
:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

In Colle
1

GET IT AT
_ MILLER DRUG COMPANY

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

WHERE ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE MEET
