4A
(44

FOR TWO YEARS ADJUDGED THE BEST COLLEGJE NEWSPAPER IN NORTH CAROLINA

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N, C., SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

Previous Enrollment

Davidson Commences Ninetieth Session |

Over Two Hundred Men Seeking
Enrollment Are Turned Away

LARGE FRESH CLASS

Senior Class is Largest in History—
But Juniors Lose Many Men

This year’s enrollment of 628 breaks even
the great enrollment record of last year by
10. Of this large number only four are
co-eds and 10 are men who have been out of
school for a while. There are still seven
more men who have made satisfactory ar-
rangements with the treasurer but who have
not as yet registered properly. Consequently
the number may increase to 635,

This.number is in no way near the number

who applied for entrance to the institution.
Approximately 225 men who applied for ad-
mission to the freshman class were turned
away for lack of class room.

In spite of the present crowded conditions
all of those upper classmen who were in
doubt as to their chance to enroll, were all
admitted and duly enrolled.

Because an unusually large percentage of
the Sophomore class returned this year the
number of the yearling class decreased from
last year, numbering only 235 as compared
with the record of 252 for the preceding year.
Of the 235 only 225 are wearers of the cap
with the green “F” because three of their
number belong to the fair sex and seven are
members of the class of ’28,

Of the 223 who are on the register’s books
as Sophomores 34 are of the Junior class
who have failed in part to complete the full
amount of work required of them.

(Continued on page 2)

Records Broken As_

|

New Students Are _
Entertained With |
Reception at Gym.

* The men of the class of ’29 were given
their official welcome to Davidson at the tra-
ditional freshman reception held in their
honor the gymnasium last Monday night.
All the men of this class assembled in Shear-
er Hall shortly after dark, and after some
few instructions given by the “Y” officials
they marched to the place of festivities in a
body.

They were grected there by a detailed
group of upper classmen who served as a
reception committee. The receiving line was
composed of the faculty and their wives and!
other town folk interested in the college.

everal booths were at advantageous places
around the big floor, where ices and cakes
and candies could be had for the asking. The
“Y” cabinet had charge of the cevning, being
ably assisted by a number of other men.
Quite a number of attractive town girls
served at the various booths.

After this rather informal part the
program chairs were arranged for the talks
which followed. Dr. W. J. Martin, repre-
senting the college in an official capacity,
made an interesting talk to the freshmen.
He sounded a friendly note to the new men,
urging them to pay serious attention to the
educational values of ¢ollege life, at the same
time joining in all the outside activities that
they could. Dr. Arbuckle, who spoke for the
“Y,” effectively endeavored to make the
'men feel at home in their new surroundings.

(Continued on page 7)

of

Y.M. C. A. Arranges For Noted Speakers |
To Address Students at Vesper Services

Series of Attractive Programs. Are
Scheduled for Sunday Night
Assemblies

After starting off the school year of 1925-
26 with a most successful and inspiring serv-
ice in Shearer Hall on last Sunday evening
at 6:15 o'clock, at which time Hayden Hol-
lingsworth, president of the “Y” at Davidson,
and Albert Hillhouse, president of the Stu-
dent Body in ’24, and now local secretary of
the “Y,” delivered two fine addresses to the
students, who had turned out enmasse to
hear them, the “Y” got off.to a fine start
which the entire cabinet will endeavor to up-
hold throughout the year.

The series of programs which the Y. M.
C. A. will “put on” this year could find no
better man to give the opening address than
Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Dr.
Johnson made one of the first addresses to
the students last year and needs no introduc-
tion to the upper classmen. Before coming
to Charlotte, Dr. Johnson made his home in
Birmingham, where he held an. important
pastorate. Dr. Johnson will make a very
interesting talk and one that no Davidson
man can afford to miss.

One of the most interesting characters in
the state and perhaps in the south is Bishop
Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem. The Bishop
is a high official in the Moravian Church
and highly thought of throughout the entire
country. Bishop Rondthaler’s son is presi-
dent of Salem College and is also a noted
lecturer and speaker. Bishop Rondthaler
will speak on the night of September 27.

Dr. Oren Moore, a prominent phsician and
surgeon of Charlotte, N. C., will give a lec-
ture on the Sunday night following Bishop
Rondthaler’s talk. Dr. Moore has spoken
before the “Y” on several former occasions
and is no stranger to the Davidson campus.

(Continued on page 7)

,college audiences have been booked.

Juniors Plan For
Lyceum Offerings

The Junior speaking committee of the
class of '27 following the announcement of
ithe series of lyceum numbers booked for
\the year has begun an intense drive toward
,the sale of season tickets to every man in
| the student body. The successful completion
}of this entertainment course would insure
{the financial success of Junior Week and
| with that purpose in viw Juniors have set to
work;

The four companies engaged through the
well known Piedmont Bureau of Asheville |
,to appear at Davidson will each present an
evening’s entertainment of the highest class.
,Two of the groups are scheduled for this |
| fall and the remaining two will come to the
‘campus in the spring.

Programs of classical and popular music
having proven most popular in the past with |
Each
| company of artists will be of a different type.
Lockhart and His Scotch Lassies will bring
,the ever popular songs of the Highlands and
Lowlands. The Jane Case Company arc,

NEW GRID CAPTAIN

Wildcats Will Open
Against

Eight Additional
Instructors Join
Davidson Faculty

|

{| As Davidson its for its
|ninetieth session on Thursday, September 10,
it welcome to its faculty eight new faces—-
Professors Noble, Bailey, Beatty, Fulcher,
, Davis, and Vowles, and Captain Elkin and
| Lieutenant Becket, of the R, O. T. C. de-
| partment.

opened doors

Professor Noble comes to Davidson with
‘a preparation for his position equalled by
‘few in any line of endeavor. He attended
ithe University of North Carolina for three
fand one-half years, receiving there the degree
of Bachelor of Arts. After spending the
next half year in New York he attended
Harvard. In his three years there he re-
ceived the degrees of Master of Hducation
and Doctor of Education, the latter degree

being the equivalent of a Ph.D., as Harvard |

potent ies ,does not give a Ph.D) in Education, While
Wick” Black, dashing full-back, whe | in Harvard, Mr. Noble held the honored po-

iden? chosen > Garth) the 1925 Wildcat | sit), of president of the student body in the
eleven at a meeting of letter-men on graduate school of education, He was also
Tuesday...

three years. As a final honor he was. in-
vited to join Phi Delta Kappa, the country’s

most honored fraternity in education, Fer

e e
Wick Black Will Lead )
O 2 ithe past for summers he has been professor
Davidson Wildcats on of Education and Psychology in the summer
© je e 3 e Tenens haat sn ae
Gridiron This Season school of the University of North Carolina.

The last summer was spent in Europe visiting
the schools France and Germany and
England.
Professor Baily comes to Davidson as
(Continued on page 5)

of

William M. (Wick) Black, powerful full-
back on the Davidson varsity for the past
two seasons, was tlected captain of the 1925
football cleven at a meeting of the football

* ¢ ¢ * '
a member of the education school cabinet for |

1925 Grid Season

Elon Christians This Saturday

Coach Younger Drives His Charges
Through Gruelling Practices

INTEREST RUNS HIGH

Elon to Bring Strong Team for
Opening set a Richardson
ie

Saturday at 3:00 o'clock the 1925 football
season of North Carolina will be opened on
Richardson Field by the annual Davidson-
Elon game, the two teams having both fin-
ished nearly three weeks of grinding practice
in the hottest weather of many seasons.

Coach Frank Corboy is coming to David-
son with a team of Christians whom he is
reported as saying “Will make themselves
felt against the Wildcats.” For the past
four years the Elon team has been journey-
ing down to Richardson Field to cut the Da-
vidson margin of victory of the preceding
year by one or more touchdowns, Last year
the Christians, aided by thunderstorms and
ja field of mud, held the Davidson team to a
meager victory of 14 points. The preceding
| year the score was 19-0, while in 1924 David-
}son won 24-0, in 1923 34-0, and in 1921 48-0.
Much has been written about the strength
of the Wildcats with the 12 letter men back
on the field, cight of whom are regulars.
Much has been expected from the eight
varsity men, the four letter men, the promis-
ing subs and the sturdy ex-freshmen, Little
has been heard of the few letter men re-
turning to Elon and little can be said for
their record of the preceding season. But
much can be found about the freshmen that
are entering the portals of the Christian Col-

(Continued on page 8)

letter men in the Kappa Alpha Fraternity
hall Tuesday morning. The election came to
fill the vacancy left by the failure of Cap-
tain-clect “Sook” Boggs to return to. the
college.

In his three years at Davidson Black has
established an enviable record on the grid-
iron, playing on, the 1922 freshman team, the
first yearling eleven to represent Davidson
College. Wick stepped into the varsity
ranks in the first game of his Sophomore
year, since which he has played in every
varsity encounter. He has established the
record "of never having hadotime. called for Student body in general mourns the loss of
him, and substitution has come only when One of its most popular members, Norman
the score was such as to warrant no serious King Barton, who was drowned near his
objection to the weakening of the team, home in Johnson City, Tenn., during the

Black comes from one of the leading foot- | Summer vacation. Barton, with a crowd of
ball familics of the state, and one that has ffiends, was hiking through the woods
meant much to athletics at Davidson, Two Searching for a shady neek in which to stop
brothers, “Slink” and Jack, played on other @d enjoy a noon-day lunch, It became
Wildcat clevens, Jack Black playing with Necessary to cross a river, and it was in doing
fame throughout the whole south. At the 50 that Barton lost his life.
present time another brother, Sam, is trying
out for the freshman team.

Popular Davidson

Student Drowned

The Junior class in. particular and the

He and another boy were at the rear of
the party, and started across the river and

Black, so assert the townspeople, is the Started across the river some distance behind

first Davidson boy to ever head a Davidson the other hikers. A little distance from the |

Considering the many valuyghle bank, Barton’s strength failed him and he
began to sink. His friend made a desperate

cleven.
players that the college village has sent to

the varsity ranks, it scems fitting that one effort to rescue the drowning boy, but to no |
should be selected to head the team. Black avail. The current and the depth of the |

is surely one of the best. water made it impossible for Barton to be

South Wing of New Chambers Structure
Provides New Class-Room Facilities

New Building and its Furnishings
Are Realization of Long-Felt
Need

The completion of the south wing of the
New Chambers building, for so long only a
dream, has indeed become a reality. For
many months, in fact, nearly four years, the

students have gone from one end of the cam-

pus to the other, in all kinds of weather, to
classes in temporary class rooms, rushing
lfrom old Shearer to far away “Concord,”

|
lonly to find their professor giving them cuts

jon that day.
| This new building and its furnishings are
|modern in every respect and is a splendid
j asset to the plant of Davidson College. Prac-
|tically every professor has not only his
| class room but also a private office, which is
ja splendid improvement. The hardwood
floors in every room and all the halls make
ithe building not only beautiful but provide a

dragged to safety. Barton was believed to floor that will last for years. The woodwork

While several hundred members of the have been an excellent swimmer, and the | is finished ina beautiful and lasting Bahar
Wildcat family were roaming throughout only cause. for his drowning, that has been finish which also contributes to the beauty
all parts of the civilized South, Florida, advanced, is that his heart became weakened | of the building.

listed for an “original and unique program
of songs and sketches.” The Adams Welsh | caged lair at the old homestead awaiting Went down due to this fact.

Quartet in classic, popular and humorous | the return of his loved ones in the fall. Barton was a member of the class of '27,
offerings is the third troupe contracted to Little did he realize as he leisurely and had endeared himself to all the students
appear on the rostrum of Shearer. The Sctics | jounged frone daz to day in the caaishade.| by his friendly personality. and his sincere
concludes with a Russian quartet which’ of g sheltering oak, drinking water cooled | interest in everything in which his fellow-
makes its pb pearance in its own peculiar by sympathetic hands and eating spring | students were concerned. It has been said
songs and recitations. chicken ‘served in courses, the danger | that Barton was planning to enter Carnegie

The special season ticket now on sale gives’ which threatened several of his kinsmen, | Tech this fall to pursue a course in advanced
the four numbers at the price of three, a dis-| or the licentiousness and vice in which | engineering, but the truth of this statement
count of 25 per cent. Each performance, others participated. The cat has been|is not known. He was a quiet and unassum-
alone will cost 50 cents for admission and| greatly revived and envigorated by the|ing fellow, and stood well both in scholar-
the season ticket sells for one dollar and a|return of life ta-the campus, and he is ship and outside activities. He was a thor-
half. During the past week about one-third| only awaiting the opportunity to growl ough Christian gentleman, and his loss brings
of the desired amount was obtained in the| at the Tigers, claw: the Bull-Dogs, and deep sorrow to the hearts of his many

(Continued on page 3) | to scratch the horns off the Blue Devils. | friends on the campus.

| the head of the family calmly sat in his | 4Pon entering the water and that Barton |

On the first floor the administrative of-
|fices, formerly in the library, are located.
The vaults, lavatories and a book room are
also located on this floor. The second and
third floors are composed entirely class rooms
and the offices of the professors. The en-
tire furnishings of.the new building are new
and of the finest quality and design, thus
adding much to the comfort and the con-
venience of the professors and students.

There are 20 class rooms in this wing,
eight of which are memorial rooms. The
offices of Dr. Martin and-Mr. Jackson are
also memorial rooms. The building also con-
tains 10 offices for the professors and 10
administrative offices.

