THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

eee

DOCTORS McALLISTER AND
ANDERSON SPEAK
TO CLASS

(Continued from page 1)

ular pastors of that city, and by his
personality and chaaracter has endeated
himself not only to the members of his
own congregation, but also many others
in the city. He is especially liked as an
orator and preacher, and his address be-
fore the Y. M. C. A. Sunday night at
8:00 p. m. was one of the most inspiring
of those to be delivered this commence-
ment.

Rev. James Gray McAllister, who is to
deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon, is a
grduate of Hampden-Sidney College, in
the class of 1894, and is one of the honor
graduates from that institution. He at-
tended Union Theological Seminary, and
graduated from there in 1901; he was
the first holder of the Hoge Fellowship.
the highest honor given to a member of
each Senior Class at the seminary. In
the year 1906 he received +his D.D. de-
gree from two institutions, Washington
and Jefferson College, and also Centre
College. After finishing his work as a
student at Union he remained as a Pro-
fessor, from 1902-1905. He was elected
President of his alma mater, Hampden-
Sidney and remained its head for four
years, from 1905-1908. At present he is
a professor in Kentucky Theological
Seminary, Louisville, Ky., but has re-
cently accepted a request from Union
Theological Seminary ‘to become a pro-
fessor there. Dr. McAllister is well
known as an orator, and is one of the
most popular speakers at Montreat ev-"
ery summer. Within the last two years
he has made an extended trip to the
orient, spending a considerable time in
the Holy Land. His interesting articles
on this trip were published this past win-
ter in the Christian Observer. So pop-
ular have they proved that he has made
plans to publish them in book form.
Those who have heard him say that he is
a very interesting and forceful speaker,
and it is expected that he will present a
splendid Baccalaureate Sermon.

Rev. Neal Larkin “Anderson, D.D., is a
graduate of Davidson, in the class of
1885. While in college here he was a
member of the Eumenean Literary Soci-
ety. He is more than a mere graduate
son of Davidson, as his father was a
Professor in this institution from 1866-
1874. His father was Prof. J. M. Ander-
son, and while,here he and his family
lived in the building now called “Louis-
jana.” Dr. Anderson attended Prince-
ton Theological Seminary, and was a
member of the class of 1887. Since tak-
ing his theological course he has re-
ceived his Doctor of Divinity degree from
Davidson. He has had several important
pastorates, among them Birmingham
and Winston-Salem. As has already been
stated he is now pastor of the Inde-
pendent Church in Savannah, Ga. This
church is not connected with the South-
ern Presbyterian Assembly, but secures
its pastors from it. It was in this church
that the father df Woodrow Wilson was
pastor, during the boyhood of that future
famous sén of Daivdson. Dr. Anderson
was for a time President of the Texas
Theological Seminary, Austin, Tex. He
is now one of the Trustees of Davidson

ian to Maintain Standard of Best
State College Paper.

in the printing of the paper. Only once

printers could not be blamed for that, as the

copy was lost in the mail and was, there-
fore, a day late getting to the publishers.

For the second successive year The David-

1 sonian was voted the best college paper in the

state by the delegates of the North Carolina

at Davidson the last of April and the first
of May. The make-up of the paper prob-
ably was the most important factor in the de-
cision of the delegates. The type of news
stories and the number of news stories, ex-
ceeding that of any college paper in the state,
also elicited favorable comment, but it was

oo

College, and has long been a loyal son to |
his alma mater.

Because of the worth and ability of

these two men, those who were privileged
to hear them on the opening day of Com-
mencement were richly rwarded for their
attendance on both of these meetings.

Old Chambers Bell
Replaced by Hon. —
Brevard McDowell, —

The old college bell: which had rung its
diverse summons to fifteen generations of '
students, tolled for the last time on the carly .
morning of November 18, 1921. The fire |
partly melted the bell, and the fall caused the |
rest to be broken into bits.

For a time following the incineration -of
Chambers, the shricks of a steam whistle at-
tached to the roof of the Commissary sum-
moned students to classes. This, however, so
often got out of order that it was found
necessary to substitute a train engine bell.
‘This worked admirably for a time, but the
‘need of a larger and better bell was strongly
felt.

Hon. Brevard McDowell, of Charlotte,
saw the need and donated to Davidson the
splendid bell which it now possesses. The
gift was presented in an impressive ceremony
on the morning of September 14, 1922, as a
memorial to the Davidosn heroes who died
during the war. At this ceremony, Dr. J.
W. McConnell introduced Mr. McDowell,
one-time mayor of Charlotte. The Hon.
Breyard McDowell responded, stating his
gladness in making the gift. Dr. Martin
accepted the donation in behalf of the ad-
ministration, and Sam Davis, in behalf of
the student body of the college.

The honor of first ringing the bell was re-

|

The ceremony will linger in the minds of the
classes of °23, '24, '25, and ’26.

The new bell hangs in a temporary tower
north of the armory until a permanent place
is provided for it in the new Chambers build-
ing.

Second. X-Ray Picture
in Country
Chambers Physics Lab.

: The second x-ray picture ever made in
. the United States was made at David-
She—“What a pity it is that handsome

served for the donor. At the last note of |men are always conceited.” son in the old physics sore tory on ane
the bell, cheer after cheer rang from the} Joe McConnell—“Not always, little girl.| first floor of the old Chambers building
students for Mr. McDowell and the bell.{I'’m not.”

The success of The Davidsonian during
the past year is in no small measure due to
the efficient co-operation and services of the
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company

during the term of the staff which finished its
work with the first issue in April did the
paper fail to come out on time, and the

Collegiate Press Association which convened |

said Dr. R. H. Lafferty, Charlotte x-ray
!

Success of Paper During Year Due to
Efficiency of Presbyterian Standard

Their Co-operation Helps Davidson-

ithe balanced make-up of the paper which
was espccially noticed.

The instructions concerning make-up were

closely followed by the printers, ?and in the
case of shorter news items which were sent
in as fillers, they were always placed to
; good advantage. . ;

The material for the paper is turned in.to

the editors on Monday, and that night the pa-
per is edited. Tucsday morning the copy is
mailed to the Presbyterian Standard, and on
Thursday afternoon the! paper is delivered
at Davidson. Due to the poor schedule of
mail trains it is hard to get late news into the
paper, but repeatedly, during the past year,
so efficient has been the service of the
i Standard that reports of happenings Tuesday.
and Tuesday evening have appeared in the
Thursday number.

Despite the many handicaps duc to the
difficulty of getting copy to the printers, and
the fact that once the material! is out of their
hands, the editors cannot make changes, as
they could if the. paper were printed in the
jsame town, except under special circum-
stances, no criticism can be made of the way
in which the Standard has handled their end
of the job,

Considering the difficulties, the retiring
staff is especially proud of the record which
the paper has made, and hopes that the fu-.
ture editors and business managers of the
paper may carry to still greater. success, the
paper which for 11 years has served the
students of Davidson College, and her alumni
and friends.

:

Reception Given to

Alumni by Faculty

The Davidson College faculty wil! give
their annual reception for the Alumni and
the parents and friends of the graduat-
ing class tomorrow afternoon from five
to six on the campus between Elm row
and the old Y. M. C. A, building.

Punch and cakes will be served on
tables set on the campus by the faculty
reception committee, and everyone is
cordially invited to attend the occasion.

Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle is chairman of the
committee, and has complete charge of
all the arrangements. Mrs. J. M.
Douglas, Mrs. Agnes Brown, Mrs, E. J.
Erwin, Mrs. O. J. Thies, Prof. A: V.
Goldieu, and Prof. A. Currie make up the
committee.

Preparations have been made for five
hundred of the visitors, who will be
guests of the faculty at this time.

Top: Eu and Phi Halls with Shearer Hall in background. Center: Old Dormitory Row, left to right,
Rumple, Watts, Georgia. Bottom: The Walk from the columns of Chambers to Main Street.

specialist, in speaking before the biology

Taken in classes of the Central High School, Char-

eo

fotte, on May 8.
The picture was taken by a group of
students among: whom was Osmond L.
Barringer, of Charlotte, on January 12,
1895. The first to be made in this coun-
try was taken on January 5, 1895, just a
week prior to the picture made at David- |
son.
