THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON

A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE :

What has gone on before: Dan Druff,'
the hero, is commissioned by John Dough, his
boss, to go with Gabriel Snubbers on the
Yacht Flat Iron to tropical shores. Dan is
to get the secret plans of a toothpick process.
Weona Snubbers, the old man’s daughter, |
accompanies the expedition. Dan falls in
love with her immediately. As he boards
the ship he receives a note warning him to
abandon the trip or be in periol of his life.

Now let us proceed :

Dan read the\message quickly and looked |
up to see who had given it to him, but the |
messenger had gone. What more could a)
red-blooded he-man want than an ocean trip,
a beautiful girl along, and a little tinge of |
danger to keep him from going to sleep?
He put the note into his pocket and retired |
to his cabin to dress for breakfast. He took
his tux out. of his brief case, and put on his |
step-easy shoes, meanwhile thinking of his |
unseen enemy.

He went to breakfast with Weona on his
arm; she was rather heavy, so he was glad
when they reached the table and sat down.

“Will you please pass the gravy 2" rasped
a wheezing, whining voice.

Dan started at the sound of that voice,
but he didn't go far. Where had he heard
that voice before? Ah! Now he remem-
bers; it was the man who had been thrown |
out of the picture show for reading the sub- |
titles aloud.
count, but Dan knew he was no count. |
Here was a man to be watched; Dan made |
a tiote of it on his cuff.

As he was writing this note, Count Emout |
let his hand slip and splashed the gravy all|
over Dan's coat. Little did this worry Dan, |
for had he not water-proofed his suit last |
week? But this incident served to show Dan
that the count was his true enemy.

After a delightful breakfast of grape-
fruit, grape-nuts, and grape juice, Dan went
out and had a brisk game of tennis with
Weona; he let her beat six sets and called
it love on his part. Then he explored the
yacht, he found himself in Gabriel’s room.
He wanted to get the lay of the land, so he
slipped around and investigated in all the
corners. He finally saw some blue, paper
protruding from the hanging lamp; these
were the valuable blueprints. He heard a
slight noise and turning quickly saw Count
Emout at the desk searching for cigars. Dan
put more notes on his cuff and left the room.
He thought the present hiding place of the
plans would be safer than any other.

By evening the little “Flat Iron” was
thousands of miles from land. A saffron
hued moon veiled by the silvery mist—no,
that was the next night. Anyway the boat
was sailing along on a smooth sea; the
pretty dogfish would jump out of the water
and bark for bon bons every now and then.
At supper time or dinner time the boat passed
close to the Pajama Islands and slowed
down in order to let the guests see the na-
tives do the Charleston; one old tribe leader
was especially good on the saxaphone and
gave encore after encore. All the guests
threw pennies to the performers and watched
them diving after them in a hundred fect of
water.

That night it was dark, terribly dark.
Even the yacht was dark; the current was
off so the whole boat was in darkness. The

jand located himself.
|} southeast direction.

Yet the other guests called him| '

poker players had to strip to make it light
enough to play. Dan was walking the deck |
attempting to think about something. He |
knew this was a good thing, because in school
his psychology professor had made him take |
walks and try to think. Down at the Star- |
board side of the boat he saw a form hold- |
ing on the flag pole. He struck a match |
and looked at his watch; it was quarter |
past thirteen bells; he made a note of this!
strange co-incident on his cuff He then |
crept down the sidewalk, or deck, to investi- |
gate this form; as he got closer he recog- |
nized that it was a woman; still closer he |
saw that it was Weona. He touched her |
softly, and in that tone of voice he learned |
in his-dramatic club, said, “Weona !* |

“I knew you would come to me,” she evi- |
dently knew her part too. “I am so glad to!
get away from those boring people, espe-}
cially Count Emout; he gives me a pain.’ |
Dan offered her an aspirin. “But you are |
different from the rest; I cansee from look- |
ing into your eyes that you have the same
desire to live that I have, ‘instead of just
existing like the rest.” She heaved 4 treat
sigh over the railing.

The boat was making ninety knots an hour,
but at this instant a huge scissors fish cut
one of the knots, and started a slow sinking
of the ship. Suddenly the little crait gave
a shudder like one affected with the shimmies.
Weona grabbed Dan around the neck. “What
is that terrible noise,” she shrieked.

“That's my heart,” said Dan, attempting
to he witty although he knew the boat was
sinking. He reached through the window and
grabbed his brief case under one arm, and
taking Weona under the other, jumped over-
board into the storm-tossed, gnashing, heiv-
ing, drunken waters. Whispering words of
encouragement into the ears of his beloved
he took his compass out of his brie? case

Then he set our
At dawn he was. still
swimming; strong though he was, he was
beginning to tire of his burden. He could
not hold out any longer, he felt. Suddenly
he felt his muscles give way and he could
not make another stroke; he felt himself
going down.

(Continued next week)
Copyrighted by Mobull Syndicate.

in

AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT

(Continued from page 1)
of the party from benig thrown under
the
completely demolished.

A special memorial service for Frank
was held just before the usual “Y" ves-
pers on Sunday evening, and at this time
Hayden Hollingsworth, president of the
Y. M. C. A. paid a high tribute to the
fine life that Hudson had lived during his
three years at Davidson. Students and
faculty members alike bowed their heads
in tribute to the student, whose work and
influence on the Davidson campus had
been a living example of Christian serv-
ice,

Frank had taken a leading part in va-
rious campus activities, and would have
graduated in June. He was chairman of
the student Court of Control, and was
Business Manager of the Glee Club, hav-
ing been a member of that organization
for the past three years. He was also a
member of the.Sigma Alpha Epsilon fa-
ternity.

UNIQUE INITIATION

(Continued from page 1)
of several slides of Argentine. A speaker
will be present to explain the pictures and
tell of their value. This should prove an
educational and interesting program for both
the Spanish students andother members of
the student body.

sar also.. The top of the car was

Doctor Lingle to Lead Football Squad Banqueted by Professor

International Relations
Club Meeting on Friday

Davidson Professor Will Speak in
Open Meeting on Foreign Policy
of United States

There will be an open meeting of the In-
ternational Relations Club on Friday even-
ing, November 20th, at 7:30 o'clock, “in
Shearer Hall, Dr. T. W. Lingle will ad-
dress the club on the present international
policy of the United States with special em-
phasis on the World Court. This is a ques-
tion of vital importance throughout the
nation at the present time as it is to be
decided at the next meeting of the Senate
whether or not the United States shall be-
come a member of the World Court. Stu-
dent thought and opinion are necessary to
make this meeting a success as well as to
make our contribution toward the thought
and feeling on this matter throughout. the
United States.

Dr. Lingle is quite an authority on inter-
national matters. He has made quite a num
ber of trips to Europe in recent years which
Will enable him to add a more practical and
personal touch to his address.

Both students and townspeople are  cor-
dially urged and invited to attend this meet
ing as the guests of the 1. R. Club,

There has been much interest shown this
year in the organization of state clubs at
Davidson, A feeling of patriotism and fel-
lowship has been created by the close con-
nection that from the same state
have in one of these clubs, The latest addi-
tion to the clubs already formed is that of
Florida. As yet this new club has not really
begun to form any definite plans by which
it may work.
eral mornings immediately after chapel, but
nothing very definite has been decided on,
However, at its last meeting Frank W. Al-

icllows

ford was elected president, and plans for a,

feed, to be held in the near future, were
discussed. No-particular date was set, how-
ever, but it is thought that interest in the
organization can be created by a meeting such
as that proposed.

While this new club is a little late in get-
ting started, all its members are enthusiastic
and they will be heard from in the future. At
present there are about 25 enrolled in the
new club,

Meetings have been held sev- |

INISTERIAL BAND HEARS
ADDRESS BY HILLHOUSE

M

Also Plans to Help Mooresville Pas-
tor on Religious Survey of

District
A. M. Hillhouse, secretary of the Y. M.
C. A., spoke to the Ministerial Band, in

Shearer Hall, Sunday afternoon, His topic
was “The Importance of Having An Aim In
Preaching.”

At this meeting plans were made to send
a delegation into the vicinity around Moores-
ville for the purpose of assisting the Moores-
ville pastor in his work. They are to make
a religious survey of the district of Moores-
ville. The delegation will work in connection
with the Y. M,C, A. Two or more Sunday
afternoons will be devoted to this work.

The election of officers will take place next
Sunday, and the new officers. will be installed
the first Sunday in December,

The attendance so far this year has been
greater than that of the past two or three
years; this has been very gratifying to those
in charge,

DUKE BLUE DEVILS

(Continued from page 1)

ter when, the Wildeats, lead by Hendrix,
came back with end
runs and brilliant forward passes to be
ahead, 14 to 13, at the end of the third
period, Another touchdown was made
in the last playing period of the 1924
season by consistent ground gaining on
the part of Davidson's stellar backs.

Due to the fact that the date set for
the game is a holiday a large crowd is
sure to be on hand for the season's last

strong sweeping

The excellent showing that Da-
made offensively last Saturday
and the marked improvement that Duke
has demonstrated lately indicate that the
will and should be a
good exhibition of football.

game,
vidson

contest be close,

ORATORICAL CONTEST
(Continued from page 1)
and should be strong é¢ontestants for the
| medal,
Prof. Carl Wachter, professor of public
speaking and, debate, is to have general

in the near future, a meeting of all men

erie of the contest and will call,

| interested,

Wachter at Local Hotel Tuesday Night

The entire football squad, including the
serubs, together with the coaches and Dr.
J. M. Douglas, the graduate manager, were
the guests of Prof. Carl Wachter at a ban-
quet given by him last Tuesday evening at
the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.

At the pep meeting preceding the Carolia
game Professor Wachter had promised to
give a banquet to the team which won the
Victory on Emerson field. “I am keeping
my promise,” he said to his guests. “This
banquet is to the team which outplayed and
outfought the team which fortunate
enough to win. It is a pleasure for me to
look into the faces of the men, who, working
together, have made the 1925 Davidson foot-
ball team the ‘Light-weight Champions of the
South.” Indeed it is a question in my mind,”
he continued, “whether any team in- the
country of equal- poundage can defeat the
fighting Wildcats.”

Wachter then introduced Dr.
Douglas, who voiced his gratification of the
the team throughout
the season, his pleasure at being asked to

Was

Professor
splendid) showing of

attend the banquet, and his convictions as to
the character value of college athletics.

Coach Monk Younger then called
upon to speak. His remarks were brief and
roundly applauded. He thanked Professor
Wachter for his efforts in behalf of the team
and for the sumptuous repast of which they
had just partaken, and complimented the en-
tire squad on the co-operation and loyalty
they had given the coaches,

Was

Coach Tex Tilson, on being introduced,
said he was no orator and would not attempt
to make a speech, but that, before sitting
down he wanted to thank Professor Wach-
ter for the banquet and express his pleasure
at the success of the team, not for anything
he or Monk had done, but for the hard work
and co-operation of every man on the team
and the work of the scrubs must not be for-
gotten,

Captain Wick Black and Jim Hendrix, the
outstanding star of the Carolina game, were
also called upon the speak, and— responded
briefly.

After a few closing remarks by Professor
Wachter, the banquet ended with the sing-
ing of “O' Davidson.”

Universities and colleges must be wick-
ed places: Boys and girls under sixteen
are not admitted.

Into.the making of this one
izeti expert tob

Turkish and domestic tobeccos. "The most skilful bt

cigarette goes

Waren it’s Thanksgiving—and the teams
are drawn up for battle on the gridiron—when the first
touchdown goes over and the grandstands rock with frenzy

—have a Camel!

WHEN the rival bands are playing to make
your blood tingle. And the cheers and answer-
ing songs sweep back and forth between the
opposing thousands of rooters. When, follow-
ing that tense hush, a swift player darts out
from the flashing formations on the gridiron
and races across the goal for the first touchdown
—oh, man, or superman, when the taste of joy
is too keen to endure—have a Camel!

For Camel is the boon companion of your
joys. Roam as far as you will from the prosaic
things of every day, Camel will be the truest
smoke friend you ever had. Not a tired taste,
not a cigaretty after-taste, not a regret in a
million Camels! Just full and fragrant smoke
contentment, just added zest in living.

So when your own college’s team tears
through for its first smashing goal this Thanks-
giving Day—when life seems fullest of the
frenzy of happiness—joyfully apply the fire
and taste the smoke that’s loved by millions.

Have a Camel!

all of the ability of the world’s lergest
men. Nothing Sle good ie Camels. The choicest

ers. The most

one tke

kage. No other cigarette made is like Camels, No finer ci jarette can
ee ee choice af expcricnced

Our hi;
know Come! quality,
them. We invite you to compere Camels
with any cigarette meade at any price.

these wish, if you do not yet

ts thet you

R J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
