Merry
Christmas

1H

EDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 17, 1925

Happy
New Year

No. 14

Twenty-one Varsity Players Are Given

Letters as Reward fo

Nine Men Recsive Le Letters for First |
Time While Twelve Others
Get Stars

At a recent meeting of the Athletic
Council, twenty-one letters were awarded
to the gridiron stars of the 1925
The number of letters is unusually large

for the Davidson team, but this is due to

season.

the fact that such strong teams were met |

during the season that many substitutes
were needed. Nine of the letters were
awarded for the first time, and twelve stars
were given to the veterans who had serv-
ed for more than one year on the Wild-
cat team.

The third star was added to
stellation of Jim Hendrix, star quarter of
the Wildcat team, while the second star
was given to~five members who have

played for ONT and made their let- |

ters for three yea

A player must participate in at least |
twenty quarters of the regular scheduled |
games in order to be eligible to wear |
the “D”. After this, his name must be
voted on by the council and even though
he has played in the required number of
games, it is possible that he will not be
awarded his letter. This makes com-
petition for berths and letters very keen
and inspires the men to put out their all
for the team.

The nine men awarded their letters in
football for the first time are: H..M.
Arrowood, Shelby; C. F. Ritchie, of Con-
cord; J. Grey, of Huntersville; J. W.
Melton, of Decatur, Ga.; R. Grey, of Da-
vidson; W. O. Nisbet, of Charlotte; A. J.
Hewlette, of Wilmington; C. W. Harri-

(Continued on page 2)

the con- |

r Work This Season

Students Refuse

to Accept Monk’s
Offer tc to Resign

Last Friday morning, C. F. Monk, editor-
in-chief of the Davidson College Magazine,
tendered his resignation from his
to the student body. Mr. Monk. gave as his
jreaso for resigning, the criticism of the
{recent issue of the magazine. He first re-
quested the faculty to give him their ap-
|proval of his resignation, and then presented
his case to the student body.

After a motion from the floor and much
discussion pro and con,, the student body
{voted almost unanimously to refuse to accept
the resignation of the editor, The students
gave him at the same time a vote of confi-
}dence and approval.

From the status of present conditions, and
ifrom the concensus of opinion of the stu-
dent body, it seems that there will
|more issues of the magazine this year, unless
ja new staff and editorial board is formed at
‘once. Last year only one copy of the maga-
izine appeared, due to the financial condition
jof the periodical. The plans for this year
were that there would be
Christmas and three after the holidays.

The yote: of the student body in refusing
to accept the resignation of the editor clearly
demonstrates the degree of confidence in
which the students hold his views and at-
titude,

Monk in presenting his resignation urged
the acceptance of his resignation for the best
interests of the magazine. Monk is one of
the most popular men in the student body,
being cheer leaders and member of the Omi-

(Continued on page 3)

position

be no

one issue before

Scholarly Article by Local Professor
Wins Place in the Johns Hopkins Review

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake Contributes
Interesting Article to Journal
of Famous University

An article appearing in the current issue
of the John Hopkins Journal is of note-
worthy interest to Davidson students and
professors. The subject of the article is:
“Laws of Pronunciation in Eastern Vir-
ginia.” It was written by Dr. Edwin F.
Shewmake, professor of English here. A
brief summary of the article is as follows:

There are in eastern Virginia two dialect
pronunciations to which little attention has
been paid. According to modern dictionaries
ou in about, house, and out, is pronounced
like the ou or ow in crowd, how, loud. But
reasonably careful attention to the pronun-
ciation of these six words by a native of that
part of Virginia lying east of the Blue Ridge
mountains known as eastern Virginia and
embracing the Piedmont and Tidewater sec-
tions, will reveal a marked difference be-
tween the ou sounds of the first group
(about, house, out) and that of the second
(crowd, how, loud).

The so-called standard pronunciation of
the diphthongal ou is approximately that of
a as in father plus that of oo in pool; but
the dialectic pronunciation heard in eastern
Virginia is approximately that of u as in
but plus the same sound used in the stand-
ard pronunciation for the second part of the
diphthong. The standard is perhaps more

theoretical than actual, for there is room for!

a number of slightly different Sounds rang-
ing between that of a in father and that of
us as in but as the first element of the
diphthong.

According to their pronunciation of such
words as about, house, aunt, crowd, how, and
loud, American speakers of English may be

(Continued on page 8)

Seniors Hold First
of Class_ Smokers

The first of a proposed series of class
smokers was held by the Senior class last
Wednesday night at the Maxwell Chambers
Hotel. The class assembled at 8:30 o'clock
and proceeded without formality into a very
successful get-together meeting.

L. B. Huie, who was in charge of the
smoker, presided and announced the program
which was impromptu throughout. Several
of the Seniors, among who were Red Laird,
Bill Mattison, and Buck Shaw, gave humor-
ous talks, which were enthusiastically re-
ceived. Then the speakers turned to a more
serious vein. Roland Parker, president of
the class, made a short talk in which he re-
minded the members of the Class of '26 that
their time here is fast growing shorter, and
advised that they make use of every oppor-
tunity to strengthen their class associations
and friendships.

Buck Shaw, Jim Appleby, and Hayden
Hollingsworth called on for short
talks, and responded in their respective or-
der, reviewing the history and attainments
of the class, asking for the greatest amount
of class spirit, and giving suggestions for
the further work of the class.

were

After the speeches a colored male quar-
tette entertained for awhile with negro
spirituals and jokes. Then the meeting was
turned over to the president and a short
business meeting was held. Various sug-
gestions for future class-activities were dis-
cussed at length, and tentative plans made,
but these will not be announced at the
present.

Huie. was reappointed to have charge of
(Continued on page 2)

NEW WILDCAT CAPTAIN

Lucien Wells is Chosen
to Lead Davidson Team

During Season of 1926

Star of Many Wildcat Battles
Chosen by Team-mates as Their
Captain

The election of Lucian Wells to captain
of the 1926 football team marks an event of
great interest not only to the students but
to the alumni and others interested in Da-
vidson’s athletic endeavors, On last Sat-
urday morning the football team met for the
election of a captain to succeed Wick Black,
worthy leader during the past year.

On the first ballot, Lucian Wells and Joe
McConnell led the ballots. A vote between
Wells and McConnell was then held. The
count was a close one as both of these men
were outstanding men of the team and both
of them popuar as well. The result of this
election was not announced until Saturday
night, at the banquet given by the Davidson
alumni of Gastonia. At that time Wells was
notified of his election.

Wells is a member of the class of '26 and
is one of its most popular members. This
past year marked his third year as a mem-
ber of the varsity football team at Davidson
and he has been an outstanding player. He
will be especially remembered for his play-
ing against Carolina year before last.

His game against Wake Forest this year
in which he crashed through the Demon-
Deacon line for the Wildcat tally, was one
of the best seen in the state this year.
Wells is also a letter-man in baseball:

The football season next year is looked
forward to with anticipation now that it has
a popular captain in Wells.. He is a clean
and a square player who plays hard at all
times.

The election of Wells as captain will give
the Wildcats two captains on next year’s
Wildcat varsity, since Black will return next
year also,

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Football Team is Honored at
Banquet Given by Loyal Gaston Alumni

Homeward Routes
Hold Fascination

At Holiday Time nent ae 7:00 fdladis

giving, and

or in’ other

The time for rejoicing, gift
anticipation Santa Claus,

words, the Yuletide season is here; as is its
custom to appear about this time every year.
With the various units known

of

its coming

Gastonia High eeisel Girls Serve
Grid Heroes With Dainty Dishes

Saturday
to sump-

last
down

75 people
sat
tuously spread tables at the Gastonia High
School cafeteria, the occasion being the an-
nual banquet given for the Davidson Wild-
cats by the Gaston County Alumni
tion of Davidson College. At this time the
Gastonia High School football team,

Approximately

Associa-

state

collectively as the student body of Davidson | champions, were also guests of the alumni

begin their plans for the holiday pilgrimage. association in that county, as well as

The destination of the several pilgrims are
seattered and their widely divergent,
but no more so divergent than the means of
travel to be employed. The majority of
the will ride the trains,

ways

Ix Ws

a few
friends of the institution.

The occasion was one of merriment, feast-
Particular emphasis was
there were

ing and rejoicing.

placed upon the latter, since as-

judging the ! sembled, as expressed by many of the speak-

iron horse a more effective and practical ers, the best high school football team in

or the uncer-
merey

Push-Its”
have

steed than either “U-
tain vehicles which might
the poor bummers.

on

But all are not of the same mind. Captain

Deck, whose sonorous voice will also serve

for the vehicle's horn, expects to travel in| Hugh Query,

style, among the downy cushions of a Ford.

North Carolina, and one of the best college

teams in the state, congratulatory remarks

being given to both teams frequently.

Nor does this party alone expect to enjoy |

this mode of travel.
radiate in all directions from this fair city,

Following the delicious four-course dinner,
served by some of the high school girls, Mr.
editor of The Gastonia Ga-
zette and an enthusiastic alumnus of David-

son, acting as toastmaster, made a few intro-

Fords are expected to ductory remarks in which he stated that the

evening tended to prove a disappointment to

carrying the flower of Davidson's young man- him, since it had been his plan to have three

hood in their interior,
vidson’s mud on their exterior,
most parts of the earth.
Bumming, too,
transportation,
every driver,
ister, on the highways within a reasonable
radius of Davidson, will, on that momentous

is a favored method of

and the cream of Da-. speakers on hand,
to the utter-| vices stated that it was impossible for any

but that last-minute ad-

fone of them to be there.

No set program was followed out, but Mr,

It is a safe prediction that | Query began calling upon speakers who gave
be he bootlegger, cop, or min-| talks that had the semblance of

prepared
It was an entirely informal affair,
in which

speeches,
no. stiltedness about the occasion,

date, be accosted by some son or sons of this | the various ones called upon expressed their

institution in search of a ride.
While the great majority
(Continued on page 5)

of those pil-

{sentiments in whatever

words they chose to

| use.

|

(Continued on page 7)

Robert Franklin Davidson Wins Rhodes
Scholarship for Excellence in Studies

Davidson Delegate
at Princeton Meet

Princeton University was host to the Na-
tional Collegiate Court Conference on the
With and 12th of December. Delegates rep-
resenting a large number of colleges and
universities over the country gathered to dis-
cuss the World Court problem which has
been before the students of the higher isti-
tutions of learning for the past six wecks.
This meeting was for the purpose of crys-
talizing student opinion. Some of the most
noted authorities o1f international questions,
such as Van Dyke and Fosdick, were present
to address the conference and to discuss the
issues with the delegates.

Davidson College, with the other North
Carolina schools, favored entrance into the
Court according to a vote taken several days
ago.
of the different schools found that the
census of opinion was for the Court.

con

James Sprunt, of the class of '22, was the
Davidson representative at the conference.

Former Davidson Student Wins
Signal Honor Over Four Hun-
dred Other Candidates

The annual’ election of Rhodes Scholars,

held recently in Swarthmore, Pa.,
the naming of 32 out of a list of 420 can-
didates. On this list of 32 appears the name
of Robert Franklin Davidson,
f ’23,
This new honor, great as it is,
prise to his classmates and those who knew
of his brilliant and energetic work on the
campus. The following appears in the Quips
and Cranks of '23 and sums up his character
and accomplishments while at Davidson :

“Dignified and unassuming but with a per-
petual smile which makes a friend of every-
one he meets, Bob climbed steadily upward
on the ladder of prominence. With four years

resulted in

of the class
oO

is no sur-

on the honor

The conference by comparing the votes |

While a student here he was an outstanding |

man and the college authorities considered
him well qualified to act for his alma
mater in this capacity. He is now a grad-
uate student at Princeton.

The student body officers carefully con-
sidered the advisability of sending a repre-
sentative from the student body. Since the
problem 46 be discussed at the conference
had been so widely discussed on the campus,
in the literary societies and in the various
student body meetings, all concerned were
anxious to see a student go to Princeton.
There was a wealth of material from which
to choose delegates and all was favorable

(Continued on page 6)

roll, finishing as valedictoriait
of the class of '23, Bob holds a record sel-
dom equalled by any student. But in the
position of editor-in-chief of The Davidson-
ian he has served the college at the most
difficult post on our campus, and the quality
of the publication has borne evidence of
Bob's editorial ability and untiring energy.
D. C. is loathe to part company with a man
of the calibre of Bob Davidson and we're
hoping he'll decide to take his M.A. here.
With the record which he carries it is super-
fluous to predict a brilliant future for this
outstanding figure of the class of ’23."" While
on the campus Bob was actively associated
with- 16 different student activities and his

{many friends feel that the Rhodes Scholar-

ship was never more worthily awarded than
to him.

Under-the Rhodes will, each state in the
union elects two students to Oxford two
years out of evey three. Each of these

(Continued on page 3)
