THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

The Davidsonian |

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S, McILWAINE._.----..----. Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-..-.---Business Manager

Editorial Staff
GeFicS MID So casecs rrr ae cence Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. -Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK.... Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON -Peanut Parcher Editor
HicBipBRI GReevesccclsudecnes eee eae Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCIIL... --.----Associate Editor
H. ol; SHAW... - Associate :Fditor
G. D. ROGERS... ---Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON....- -Athletic Editor

Business Staff

H. D, BURKEF.-.-.-..- ..-.-Advertising
Tis Ar THOMPSONS: eeu ei cece coe Circulation Manager
H. Y, ALEXANDER WoW Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN- --Subscription Manager
Cc. R. HUNTER... Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON --Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH_- ~-----.~--Correspondent

Reporters’ Club

L. B. GIBBS, President J. M. GARRISON

D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. J. P. GLADNEY

A. Y. BOWIE, See.-Treas. A. H.. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON P. F. JONES

jj M. APPLEBY J. D. LAWS

1. M. AUSTIN W. _H. LYNCH

Cc. L. BRAGAW R. H, McILWAINE

V. S. BROYLES GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M, CALHOUN J. E. MOORE

W. T. COVINGTON Cc. C. MURCHISON

W. T. DAVIS R. B. PARKER

C. M. EDDINGTON FE. K. REGEN

F, T. FRANKLIN J. B. THOMPSON

L. L. DECK W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

an entertainment to completely clear off the
rest of last year’s debt. The nature of the
entertainment will be made known next
week,

The Wildcat five is off on the first Virginia
trip a Davidson basketball team has taken
in five seasons, The switch from South
Carolina to Virginia was complete, and not
a team from the Palmetto state will be met

Beginning with the Georgia Tech game
Tuesday night, the team plays nine games in
twelve days—a pretty stiff schedule for any
quint. Such a schedule tests the reserve
strength of any team,

D

The first week in March will be a busy
one for the budding speakers of the college.
Two college and: two freshman debating
teams will be selected in preliminaries to be
held the lost of the week. In addition, the
Junior speakers will be getting under way
in competition for the contest which will be
held at Junior Speaking.

Things are beginning to brighten up on
the campus again, and in a week or two,
unmistakable signs of spring will be here.
The aim of the students should be to help
Nature along as far as possible, and keep
the campus in a respectable condition, The
campus and lawn between the dormitories
can not look its best if we persist in throw-
ing papers and scraps out of the windows.
The looks of our college depend as much on
us as on Nature. We should co-operate
with the authorities in making the college a
better place in which to live, both physically
and aesthetically. ‘ :

——D:

The Junior Class is planning a Junior
Speaking which will be a credit to the class
of 26. They have been handicapped to some
extent by the late change in the dates ‘of the
spring holidays.
finally decided upon are April 9-13. The
Juniors are not ready to announce their com-

Open Forum

With the College Editors

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

A LITTLE SUPPORT, PLEASE!

That defeat is no disgrace has been proven a
thousand times upon the athletic fields of the
nation; scores of times’ Wildcat teams bowing to
superior forces have brought back to the college
undieing fame and glory. ty

In the beginning let it be understood that

, there is no desire to throw any reflection upon

the Davidson wrestlers, Giving all that they have,
fighting to the last second, they have won well
the quotation of Kipling—“hold on until there’s
nothing in you, but the will that says ‘Hold on!”

Nor have we any complaint for our coach.
Captain Weems has experience, knowledge of the
game, personality and everything desired to make
a leader of men,

HTowever it must be admitted that something is
wrong,

Up at Navy they have over three hundred men
out for the Grecian sport; down here just a hand-
ful.

Within the Davidson student body there are
men—good men—who would make excellent
wrestlers, They are not interested; they don’t go
out; they think it’s not worth their while.

Is it their fault entirely? Ts not the lack of
interest, support, enthusiasm among the students
as a whole prohibitive to the development of this
sport to its normal degree.

Saturday night the Carolina match will ring out
the '25 season for Davidson. However there’s an-
other year coming. Win or lose, we should begin
to develop that spirit which will next year place
scores of men upon the mats, that spirit which
envelops our football squad, which guides them
on to victory.

DON WHARTON.

capes ; j ; | means a great deal in the character of the
On March 20 The Davidsonian will present |

student body,
EY p yo

Mr, Maleolm Lockhart, who directed the
Davidson campaign for six hundred thou-

| sand dollars to rebuild Chambers, is now
| directing a three hundred thousand dollar
campaign for Davidson’s sister institution

The dates. which were | raising of this money. Something must be

| cost of the sweaters.

| in Charlotte, Queens College. ,

Queens College has an ideal location in
the Oucen City of the Carolinas, but like
Davidson has long felt the need of a greater
endowment. A three hundred thousand dol-

| lar endowment fund would put the college in

a position to be of greater service, and
would elevate it to the front rank of South-
ern girls’ colleges.

Davidson wishes Queens the greatest
measure of success in her undertaking, and
feels sure that under the direction of Mr.
Lockhart, the drive can be put across.

RNS p yotie etal

The Freshman Class has been slow, this
year, to recognize its responsibility in the
matter of raising money for footbail sweat-
ers.

sefore the election of officers just after
the Christmas holidays, the class was neces-
sarily directed largely from the outside by
the Court of Control, :

Then, the class was larger than it now is,
and the collection of one dollar from each
member would have more than covered the
Now, however, even
if all who are still enrolled pay up, small
extra assessment will have to be made to
cover the difference.

As the matter now standy, a fourth of the
money must still be raised!) The “D” Club,
the Court of Control, and the upper classes
are all interested in seeing that the class
Taise every penny of this money. It is a
custom of long standing that the Freshmen
should do this and those who are interested
hate to see some action taken to force the

| done, however,

plete plans, but the work is going forward |

just the same.
——D
Spring elections to determine those who
will lead the student body during the coming
year are not far off. Now is the time to be-
gin thinking of who will be the best man for

the -best.- For the first time the Freshmen
will have a voice in the student body. Their
vote will have a large influénce on the out-
come for they comprise more than a third
of the students. Every man should think
before voting for the result of the elections

| successfully,
|.chosen to lead the class.

It is up to the class itself, now that it has
become an organized body, to develop some
initiative and see that the matter is put over
The ‘class officers have been
They must take

| the initiative and help build up a strong
| class spirit.
each position—for each of us should vote for-,

The Court of Control is no longer the of-

| ficers ofthe class. It is now merely an ad-

visory and regulatory body. It would be a
pity if the Freshman Class should show it-
self incapable of self-government.

This matter is their first test. What will
the outcome be.

| the college curriculum upside down.

: WHY IS A COLLEGE?

Stephen Leacock, in the ‘McGill Daily,” lends
his talents to a description of the modern at-
titude toward university training, with the result
that we see him taking definite issue with the
thousands of “students” who seek only that know}!-
edge that can be applied directly in an obvious
way and attempt to turn their college into an
apprentice shop.

Leacock is one who would see the development
of character and vision, human understanding and
moral restraint placed above the mechanical and
standardizing processes of vocational guidance.

To quote Leacock:

“Centuries ago, when there first were colleges,
they were founded mainly to prepare people to
die. This was then the most important business:
in life. Later on the idea changed; the college
Was to prepare people to live. In our immediate
present (our little second of eternity) the idea
has changed again. The college is supposed to
prepare to make their living. The college is pre-
sumed to be a place where a student is trained to
make money. You put the fees in a slot and you
draw out a salary.

“It is this fact which is sending the tidal wave
of students to the colleges and which is turning
There is an

| inereasing demand for what are called ‘practical’

studics. The student doesn’t want to know any-
thing. He wants to be taught to do something.

Instead of the search after Truth—which has

proved unfindable—there is substituted the de-

| mand for an aptitude, for “knowing how.”

“Hence the flood of vague and futile studies,

/ each alluringly connected with the making of

money, decoying the student from the purpose of
education, and defrauding him.

“What really counts for practical success in_-

life is a trained mind, clear thought and the
capacity of sustained concentration. These things
are best acquired when we are not thinking about
them at all. Like most of the ‘practical value’ of
education they come to us as backgrounds and
incidentally. :

“Hence it is that many of the things at college
that seem the most unworldly are indirectly the

| most useful."—The Austin Kangaroo.

; of the neighborhood?

THE “GOOD FELLOW”
Said President Farrand to Cornell Freshmen
at the opening of the college year: :
“There is no virtue whatever in being a ‘rough-

| neck.’ What men most admire, in college as well

as afterwards, is a gentleman, Any seeming ad-
miration for rough qualities in a man is not
genuine.”

What small boy hxsn’t idealized the “bad egg”
Who among us does not

| remember when, as a little boy, he built up his

ideals around the “best scrapper in school” and
stood in awe when said “Mickey McGuire” was
near?

Fortunately this admiration for assertion of
the primitive combative instinct disappears for
most of us at an carly age. But for others, pos-
sibly more aggressively “built,” it becomes a firm-
ly developed and active principle, which when
dragged into college is nothing short of dis-
gusting.

Yet we find it, here, there and everywhere, with
a literal stress on the “here.” In college it {s
modified more or less, and we see the grammar

school bully in the fle of the “good fellow,” fond- |

ly displaying his

love for “wine, women and |

song” and ever ready to be the life of the crowd. |

Unfortunately these creatures attend the dances
and other social gatherings of their fellows, and
their ball-room appearance is characterized by a
familiar “hip-pocket-bulge.” Some girls, out of
peculiar “sympathy” display no outward dislike

for the odious “hootch atmosphere” while ‘others |

have no reason for such a display.

The “good fellow” of the type described, when
morals are suggested to him, will sweep away
the subject with a sneer, a wave of the hand, and
a half-muttered reference to being “Sunday
Schoolish” or some such ridiculous “blah” which
bears no relation whatever to the question of com-
mon decency.

When boisterousness, drunkenness, and rough-

| Ness become the standards of social popularity in

our colleges, then has the sad time arrived when
that host of trouble-making, be-spectacled pests

known as reformers, find opportunity to step |

forth i ntarnished glory and point an accusing
finger at higher education—The Rice Owl.

“LEADERS WHO ARE FOLLOWERS”

Much talk is heard today about the number of
students who are careless about their morals and
personal habits, who do too much, drinking.
Rumors are prevalent koncerning the “wet”
parties and wild times of the student community.
Much of this is of course unjustified, but there
are a significant few who indsige in practices
which are a disgrace to the generation. | In this
minority are the many would-be college leaders
either as active participants or as conformists.

Organizations of students whose purpose it
should be to foster a better sort of law-abiding
spirit are often most prominent in the promotion

THE LAY OF THE CROSS CROSS-
WORDER

Ave! Blithe sprite of mystic squares

That coins paroles, 1 wit not where
I've yielded to the lure

With choice vocab

And gift of gab,
I eschew any cure.

I now can emulate the bards
Who with their ilk chant runes of swards,
And put cross-worders on their guards
To catch a nouvocau word.

My speech is freer

Than any rhea,
Or any nomadic Kurd.

I rack my brains nor take the pains
No more to greet the rustic swains,
Or chat with doltish oafs or janes
In comfort, peace and rest

Because I know

Enough to show
My skill among the best.

The vista vile of letter file
Or any genus of that pile
Intrigues me not. I know my “ile”:
And know old Webster’s works:
A ring-tailed gnu,
A Latin Shrew
Or belled and towered kirk.

I now define with tones supine
A Grecian mount or Attic vine,
Or beasts that thrive on turpentine,
With supercilious mien.
Egad! Gazooks!
My coufs, and ems, I ween.

I scan the lettered lexicon
And find new things beneath the sun—
Archaic quip of Celtic pun—
And halberd means a mace
And that, I trow,
Is just enow
To fill this empty space.

3ut Zounds! Eheu! This sure won’t do.
I've struck a snag that can’t come through;
My mood has changed from bright to blue,
I'm robbed of all my ease.

But then I say,

“Why, here’s Roget”
In hoe signo vinces.

(Note: The above is to be taken with a grain
of a four letter word meaning the side-kick of
pepper.)

No, Tillie, Ben Turpin got that way long before
cross-word puzzles ever came out.

Our idea as to the origin of cross-word puzzles

that they started at the Tower of Babel.
Think of being there and hearing cussing in
ninety-nine divers tongues! Sapristo! Iska-
bibble! Carramba! L’enfer! Ponto! Nell’s bells!
Hoch der kaiser! Alaganzam! Sckrbstwky! This
last is a mixture of Chinese and Russian),

is

She—“*What’s the French word for “woman” in
Latin?”

He—“Look in any dictionary—you'll always find
woman below man,”

Deacon Jones was laying the new carpet while
his worthy spouse occupied herself with the latest
cross-word out of the Tickerville Tri-weekly Tid-
ings. The deacon got along pretty well until his
hammer slipped an dthe heavy instrument hit his
thumb a.hefty whack.

s !IXX||??! bring me that arnica quick,”
he bellowed.

“Just a minute,” said Mrs. Jones, “I was look-
ing everywhere for a three letter word meaning
an obstruction in a river, and you said it three
times in one breath.”

Gobeas:

of practices which are questionable in character
and at times definitely, reprehensible.

The “leaders” are followers of the mob and ex-
hibit either an astonishing lack of responsibility
or an unforgivable misunderstanding of their
mission in life, If they have designs on campus
political jobs their actions can be justified by their
fear of public opinion; if they are Juniors they are
afraid that those whose influence is essential to
their advancement will think they lack courage.
In those, however, who have already attained
their ambitions, the conformist attitude is incom-
prehensible. They live down to the level instead
of attempting in their own way to raise the gen- |
eral level of intelligence. © a oe SES TES
Until prominent stud

ts and their influential
organizations take a stand for what they know
in their innermost selves to be right, the excessive
breaking of the law in university communities will
never be eliminated to any great extent. — The
Michigan Daily.

