6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

Stronghold of Noblemen of the Wash
House Cleft in Twain by Static Wave

Big Crowd of Men
Out for Regular
Baseball Drills

Considering the many diversions at this
[time of year, with basketball, spring football
and track, the first call to the diamond was
| quite a success on last Friday afternoon.

One of the most seriou serious reversals mew |
to the world at large occurred at Davidson's
expert de-buttoner plant very close on to the
last day in the second month of 1925.

A representative of the Livest Wireless on

_ the Hill interviewed the foreman of the |
laundry and gathered a story somewhat as
follows, making it brief and as it is not.

On or about the tenth hour of the day,
from the center of midnight, there fell upon
said renovating plant a complete reversal of

policy. As customary, the pitchers and catchers
“What really happened,” said Mr. Helper have been putting in pre-season work, and
when seen by the wireless representative, | Should be in good shape when the fielders

have been chosen to back up the batteries.
There were several of last year’s nine and

“was that the third phase had a desiregto |

become first, and without advising ‘the!

“4 Py PA ehiCg
switchboard of its reversal of conditions, it | !¢W-comers to make the first day’s practice.
immediately superseded the first phase, the) And the number has been increasing daily
result being a vicissitude throughout the With regular practice.

system.” With eight letter men as a nucleus, and

Charlotte Alumni Hosts
to Football Letter Men.

Gold F sGtbally Prac Presented to Players |
—Closer Relationship Suggested
by Major James :

The members of the varsity footbail
squad were honor guests at the annual,
dinner given by the Mecklenburg Alumni |
Association of Davidson College in Char- |
lotte last Thursday night. Gold footballs |
were presented to the team by the asso- |
ciation at the dinner. Approximately 100}
Davidson students and alumni were pres-
ent at the banquet and.enjoyed the good
fellowship for about two hours. The!
basketball team was to have been honor
guests with the football squad at the
dinner, but Coach Younger decided it
was best to give the boys their frugal
fare and take them to the auditorium

‘Benefactor of Davidson

| Duke motored down from Charlotte.

Visits and Makes Tour
of Inspection of Hill

J. B. Duke, Fineness, | in Premier
Visit Gives Views Regarding
Davidson Plant

Mr. J. B. Duke, noted financier and re- |
cent benefactor of Davidson, made a brief
visit to the campus last Thursday. “Mr.
The
visit of Mr. Duke to Davidson was extreme-
ly brief, only several hours, due to Mr.
Duke's many urgent duties elsewhere. Mr.
Duke's visit was unknown to the majority of
the students until he had left.

A party composed of Mr. Duke, Mrs. Mc-
Ilwaine and Dr. Hardin made a tour of the’
campus. The different buildings were point-
ed out to Mr. Duke and the future plans ex-!

It seems that the trouble arose in the elee-
tric department. The volts being retarded
placed the blame on watts and immediately
attempted to kilowatts. When the watts
saw the vicious intention of the volts they
at once turned in a riot call to Delta connec-
tion. Authorities at delta connection climh-
ed on the induction motor
the current.

and shunted on
Arriving at the scene of action
they saw the great menace to society repre-
sented in the revolting volts and immediately
blew their fuses into ten thousand amperes.

Applying electromotive
generated volts, it was
torques had ceased to beat. No inquest was
deemed advisable. Ohms were collected
among armatures residing at delta connee-
tion and the recording wattmeter took com-
plete charge of the would-be killowatters,
laying them to rest in the
coils,

When the magnetic field was cleared of
the expired volts it was found that the de-
buttoner machine had thrown its entire con-
tents into the lap of the mangle. Eye-wit-
nesses claim that the salvage of the buttons
alone will more than replace the volts, as
well as covering all funds expended by the
recording wattmeter. Stud Trawick is said
to have recovered a complete set of B. V. D.
buttons, lost three years ago.

force to the de-
found that their

stationary

fied buttons will he sold at auction to coyer
damages.

Another pitable scene, that

the flux of the magneto so that its efficiency |

Was cut in half, was the great load of help-
less socks that was thrown into the heartless
interior of the extractor. It is said that not
a sock came out alive, even the holes were
completely liquidated. ‘

Out of the 622 1-2 shirts that were waiting
to have their necks shrunk, only 79 2-3 were
leit to tell the
thrown 60 feet, landing flat of their back,
completely torn in two.

The entire list of sheets and handkerchiefs
was turned inside out by the sudden reversal.
A squad of R. O. T. C,, standing inspection |
for well-sewed-on buttons at the time of |
the catastrophe was thrown into a panic and
immediately beat a retreat.

tale. A suit of pajamas was |

It is by military |

authorities that these shirts will each get!

fourteen years at Atlanta Federal Prison.

They will be tried under the 95th A, W. for |

conduct unbecoming a shirt parade.
Mr. Helper assured the interviewing rep-

field |

All unidenti- |

disassembled |

several good prospects from last year’s Fresh
team,and some stars of past years returning
to school, the outlook for ‘this season's nine
promising. Captain Covington will
doubt keep the third sack warm again this
year; while Sion Alford will find some com-
petition in Bob Glenn for short-stop. As yet
no one has shown up to contend with “Pee-
wee"

is no

Simpson at second base.

At first, Frank Alford, Abe Kugler and
Kelley Woodham, captain) of last year's
Fresh team, are showing up well. Among

those expected to show up in the outfield are:
Vance, Wells and Davis. To twirl the horse-
hide are Laird, Oden and Huie, with Kiser
and Hampton coming from the 1924 Fresh
team. Kimbrough, a prospective pitcher of
last year, will probably work in the outfield
this year. “Sim Wrenn, who caught
“Buck” Currie, Neely Hunter, Normand
| Shepherd and Bill Miley in '21, is back this
year and is expected to keep his former “rep”
at backstop. Summers, Black and Hunter
are also out as candidates for the position of
catcher.

‘were

FORENSIC COUNCIL

(Continued from page 1)
If, in the finals, a change in sides is neces-
sary for one of the teams, this shall be ar-
ranged by ‘the Forensic Council. The medal-
list will be chosen from the winning team in
| the final debate.

The Freshman Deelaimer’s contest will
jhe held May 13. Each society is entitled to
} two representatives in the finals. These
| eight men. must be chosen before May 6.

All Freshman members of the societies are |
Veliaiiie for these teams, \

The Essayist’s contest, which has been
allowed to lapse by some of the societies, will
falso be an inter-society affair. The mem-
bers of any of the four classes may enter
this contest. The only restrictions are that
the essays submitted must be between 1,200

and 3,000 words in length and must be hand-

ed to cither Gibbs, Freeland, Ratchford, or
Parker, before May 1.
A faculty committee will adjudge~ the

winner,
The dates announced for these various con-

tests can be changed oyly at the discretion of
the Forensiv Council, and the society whose

'Pete Clayton, former football star and @ visit to the home of Dr. Harding.
aera: Dian Shortly afterward the party returned to
aera Charlotte. Mr. Duke promised that he

on the campus.

|sion of the program the diners adjourned |

resentative that the damage had been com-| representatives have not been chosen or who
pletely restored, new parts for the different | are unprepared on the scheduled dates will
phases installed, and things are now going Jin all probability forfeit their rights as con-
at their usual rate of efficiency. Patrons | testants.
may expect the usual quality of work on!

shirts and all other flat work.

QUEENS WILL FLOCK HERE

TRUSTEES BOARD DECIDE

(Continued from page 1) (Continued from page 1) *
pleted a year’s post-graduate work in the everyone may come prepared to enjoy a well-
University of Chicago this spring. All are! spent evening. The boys all remember with

Davidson graduates. , delight the silver-throated girls who visited

plained to him. This was Mr. Duke’s first
visit to the college, and he seemed very
greatly interested and impressed by the work
being done here. This trip was made pri-
marily by Mr. Duke for the purpose of ac-
quainting himself better with the plant here.
The party drove down Dormitory Row, by
the athletic field, and the gym. Mr. Duke |
seemed immensely pleased with the progress

early for practice, as they were scheduled
to play Wake Forest that night.

Dr. Oren Moore, retiring president of
the association,
proved to be
Hamilton

toastmaster and
a most efficient one. Dr.

McKay presented the foot-
behalf of the Alumni Associa-
tion, and Jim Hendrix accepted them for

Was

halls on

the squad with an appropriate speech, ™4de on New Chambers as the Party view-
Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager of ed the recently constructed wing of the
athletics at Davidson, made a brief talk, | building.

After viewing the campus Mr. Duke made

this being followed by at
a brief

a short talk by

Major A. L.
co-operation

James spoke on the need
between Charlotte and
Davidson College and made several sug-
gestions that effect. Among those
suggestions was that of having two ban-
quets a year in Charlotte, at which the
Charlotte alumni would hosts. He
suggested that the entertainment be for
the freshman and for the
ciass, taking in those who who were just
entering the institution, and those Who)
about to leave it after four years |

would make another visit as soon as circum-

ot stances permitted him to do so.

to

WILLIAM AND MARY

(Continued from page 1)
tionary days were visited, some of them
being Jamestown, Williamsburg and York-
town.

One feature of the convention was the
plan for a program of national extension,
At present there are 12 colleges and uni-
i versities where the campus leaders are re-
{warded by membership in Omicron Delta
| Kappa, the leading honorary fraternity with
| the sole exception of Phi Beta Kappa.

Omicron Delta Kappa is founded on a
different basis from Phi Beta Kappa. While
| Phi Beta Kappa honors excellence in other
| activities, scholarship is a big factor. To be
elected to Omicron Delta Kappa a man has
| to excel in one line of activity, and be a lead-

er generally of thought and activity on the
support of | | campus.

At the conclu- |

he

class senior

The Queens College orchestra enter-
tained the diners with a variety of selc- |
tions, winning hearty applause and ad-
miration, The association adopted

resolution thanking Mr. James B. Duke |
for his recent gift to Davidson, which |
will benefit the $40,000,000 endow- |
ment fund created hy the tobacco mag- |
nate, Another resolution — extended
thanks to the sporting editors of the two|
Charlotte papers for their
athletic at the college.

by

|
|

in a Body to the city auditorium for the| I. R. C. SENDS PARKER AND |
Davidson-Wake Forest basketball game | GUDGER |
which was won by. the latter by the, serena
score of 35-20. | (Continued from page 1)

The following men received the gold | dent, Miss Thelma Peterson,
miniature footballs from the association : | first vice-president,
C, M. Davis, captain; R. E. Boggs, cap-, | Clemson ; second vice-president, R. B. Park-
tain-elect; T, S. Baker; all-state end, E.| er, of Davidson; corresponding secretary,
H. Bohannon, J. F. Pinckney, S. W. Sum- | Miss Elsie Buckner, of Brenau; recording
mers, S. I. Laird, J. W. Anderson, H. L.’ secretary, Miss Hazel Cubberley, of Ran-
Vance, W. A. MeAulay, J. H. McConnell, dolph-Macon; treasurer, E. A. Harkom, of
N. E. Sappenfield, J. P. Hendrix, W. M.> Wofford.
Black, D. M. McComb, J. C. Hunt, J. M.. The conference went on record as being
Covington, W. H. Leggette, L. W. Wells | overwhelmingly in fayor of the League of
and A. W. McAlister, manager. Nations and the World Court.

Both Duke University and Brenau College
extended bids for next year’s convention, and
| by vote of the con vention Brenau’s invita-
tion was accepted.

of Brenau;
G. W. Gegneleat, of

|
'
|
!
|
|

DAVIDSON TO LOCK HORNS
WITH HICKORY HIGH TEAM

Next Saturday, March 7, the Wildcat |
eleven will go up against the Hickory team
in the first game with an outsider, since the |

Mrs. W. R. Grey left for Asheville last!
| Wednesday to see to her new grandson,
| B. W. Romefelt, Jr.

‘beginning of the spring practice.

HOW THEY STAND

School Won Lost Pct.
Carolina Joll62 7 oO 1,000
Davidson ~-----. 4 3 572
Wake Forest ----4 5 444
Staten eer ese ee 2 3 .400
DUK eeesecc sees I 6 +143

Miss. Eloise Martin is visiting friends
in Columbia, S. C. During her absence
Mrs. Harriot Elliot has been teaching
Miss Martin’s grade pupils.

Champion Electric
Shoe Fixery

Best Shoe Shop in Town

Shoes Repaired While
U Wait

W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Have you hooked
yours yet? ~~
Hundreds of young

fellows have already
“got theirs.”

But that’s no sign there’s
not hundreds---yes, thous-

ands of them---left. And

more coming in every day.

Better drop in and pick
out yours now so you'll
get the full season’s bene-
fit out of it.

“AN ASSURANCE )
OF CORRECTNESS"

OI III III III III II III III III III rrr rrr ttt ttt itititititititititttitititttitttititittt1t1111144
a a

Although Hickory is but a high cheer
they are perfectly capable of giving most any |
team a good fight. They were, without ay

JUST THE THINGS FOR

Hobnailed Shoes, Army Breeches, Sox,
Cotton or Wool Shirts

Army Salvage Company
‘Statesville, N. C.

WE AR-.--

Two appointments to full Professorships the college earlier in the season, and since doubt, the best prep team in the State last | H A R D
were made, but names are withheld until it is | this contingent is from Queens, great things | fall and are still in good trim, regardless of | | eco
known whether the appointees will accept. | are expected. The admission will be 50) the fact that they have lost two of their |
One is in English for the session of 1926- 27, | cents. i best men—Baldwin and Greene. |
and the other in religious education’ and F
social ‘science. Dr. Frazer Hood was given '
leave of absence for study and travel in ’ HOW THE SCORED
tke Ne oo ph Names Pos. Games Field Fouls Points
host to the faculty members. and trustees at oe 93 33 i 96 AY)
dinner from 1:30 to 2:30. This is the first at 7 BS. We,
time in the history of the college that the as 69 25 . 4! 163
officers and instructors were thus enabled to ae 48 9 a Os 105
get together for such a social hour. cee 10 fae) 2

In the afternoon following the final ses- Beall -------------+-------= f 2i 19 12 “ 25 50
sion of the board the visitors and a number Hewlett ------------------+ f 12 II 6“ 9 28
of the faculty witnessed the regular Wed- Faucette na nnnn nana n---=--- f 3 5 0 I 10
nesday afternoon parade of the Davidson Huie - c II 2 3 is 8 7
College R. O. T. C. As a special feature of | § Hudgins ------------------- "1 2 oes 4

‘the ‘military ceremonies Capt. “George . H. Simpren -—.. 5 t o“ 0 2
Weems and the officers of the battalian se- Goodykoontz ------------_- I 0 o“ oO o
lected the best trained squad from the*fgur| § Sappenfield ------------__- g I “~° ok 0
companies in competitive drill and awarded pe : a mi Tae Te
medals to the winners. Davidson a 22 331 130 in 277 792

The thext stated meeting of ihe cenlleee Opponents ------_--_.-------_--_- 22 252 94 “ 254 598 >
authorities will be held in June.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For
Davidson Mex

