4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925 —

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Fntered at the Post Office’ of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class '

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._....-......-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN.......—- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

c. F. SMITH. Managing Editor
Wi EVa@MILTON 2 2sic este sce Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK.... -Assistant Managing Editor
Ay Ee SIMPSON. 22... ciccasscccceusecs Peanut Parcher Editor
Editor

Associate Editor

A Editor

pe epee pete er ney Alumni Editor
Gesvedsecnuetaseceessatc ads sce Athletic Editor

Business Staff

Hi DBURKEG= 2 oes ence Advertising
. A. THOMPSON... Circulation M
.» Y. ALEXANDER_-_-_--. Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN......-.--- Subscription M
Cc. R. HUNTER Bookkeep
J. M. GARRISON. vice Manag
W. H. LYNCH ate Correspond
Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President } M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. . P. GLADNEY
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON P, F. vanes
ii M. APPLEBY J.D.
. M. AUSTIN W. _H. LYNCH
Cc. L. BRAGA R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN Cc. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON FE. P. O'CONNOR |
W. T. DAVIS R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON FE. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DEC W. S. WOODS
|

EDITORIAL

THE END OF THE ROAD

ITH this issue the 1924-25 Davidsonian

staff comes to the end of its road. For

one year it has been our pleasure to put
into tangible form the life on the campus, to
present the happenings of the school year.

Athletics, debating, studies, lectures, elec-
tions, and all the numerous activities of college
life have had their place in the news columns. |
In addition to the serious side of college life we
have given a place in the paper to the humorous
and more personal side of life on the compus.

If there are any, and there may be a few, who
feel that a blot has been cast upon their life by |
mention in the Peanut Parcher or Chaff, we are
sorry. We have tried to give publicity where
publicity is due. The friends of those who
may have been over-mentioned in the above
named departments have been more than kind
in bringing to the attention of the editors inci-
dents suitable for their columns.

In other departments there may he organiza-
tions or individuals who feel that they have
been slighted or that due importance has not
heen given them in the placing of articles. Edi-
tors are not infallible, and we know that mis-—
takes have been made. Other things than im-
portance sometimes have to be taken into con-
sideration in the arrangement and make-up of
the paper, and we have consciously slighted no
one.

If for these or any other reason any one feels
that an injustice has been done we are sorry—
but we have no apologies to make. .We hope
that we have fulfilled satisfactorily the trust
which the student body has placed in us. If |
not, we have tried our hardest, and that is all
that could be expected of us.

It is with regret that we give up the reins of |
government to. the incoming staff, a regret, |
however, tinged with the brightest hopes of suc- |
cess for the new editors and managers. Many

of us, who have worked together during the |

past year, will continue the work next year in
positions of greater responsibility. Several,

who feel that their field of usefulness is greater |

in other channels, sever their nominal connec-
tion with the paper to work on the Quips and
Cranks and Magazine, and in other forms of
student activity. We.say nominal connection
‘for we believe that every man who has been

~connected with the paper will always have its |

best interests at heart. , :
There is still a third class, who in vacating

their places on the staff are taking their first |

f-step towarfadmg out of the picture of student

life. To these men the years of work on the |

paper has been a pleasant experience. They
have been years of opportunity for -service.
._ And in future years the experience will be of
value to those who were engaged in it, in pro-
portion as service to their fellow students and
to the college was their aim.

| whole,

y
' should have done, it is all over now. The
product stands as the measure of our success
or failure. We have tried to keep The David-
sonian up to the standard set for it by its found-
ers, that of being The Livest Wire on the Hill.

So it is with regret and hope that we turn
| over the paper to our successors. Life must
' go on. We know the infusion of new blood

will make for a better and more serviceable
Davidsonian,

THE NEWCOMERS

We welcome you with open arms. To you }

we entrust the ideals of service and honor which
the spirit of Davidson gives to The Davidson-
ian. Every paper has its ideals, and we hope
that in the future you may raise these ideals
and make them your guide in the management
of the paper,

Experience is a great asset. You, who as-
sume your responsibilties, have had it in some
measure, and we feel sure that by your work

The Davidsonian will be a bigger and better |

paper during the coming year. We are happy
in the fact that, barring unforseen accidents,
we can turn over to you the paper clear of en-
cumbrances.

Work will he required, and more than that
a spirit of co-operation between the business
and the editorial staff; between the editorial

staff and the reporters’ club. There is only one |
common ground upon which co-operation is ,

possible—the best interests of Davidson—and

| we feel sure that you have them at heart. Luck

to vou!

THE MODERN TREND

There appeared in last week’s Chaff several

| paragraphs which may reflect wrongly the spirit |

of the campus. Chaff is not a portrayer of

fact, but merely a space reserved for the ebul-
Rarely has |

litions of brainstormy students.
anything objetcionable appeared in its columns,

and we are sorry that last week's column con- |

tained anything of a questionable nature.

To the outsider, knowing nothing of the bunk |

which weekly fills the column, there might have

heen given a false picture of Davidson as a_

He may have regarded it as a satire |

upon existing conditions. Such is not the case. |

It was merely, as Chaff has always claimed to
he, the product of a wandering brain. A vivid
imagination coupled with the tenets of modern
thought did the trick.

There is no question about it; times have
changed. Boys and girls walk over the campus |
holding hands, which as we have often been |

are acquiring the art of cigarette smoking,
Women, from a plane above men, are rapidly
bringing themselves to an equal plane. Cer-
tainly there is no more moral objection to a
woman smoking than to a man. We hope,
however, that women won't take up cigarette
smoking on the streets, and that they'll keep off
of cigars and pipes.

_ reminded, just wasn’t done in the old days. Girls |

There is certainly a golden mean. We cer- |

tainly must respect the woman we love.

Cigar- |

ette smoking is certainly not a criterion by |
which to judge, but merely an illustration of the |

trend of today. We believe in freedom, but
freedom from restraint suddenly acquired is
likely to lead to Bolshevism. Moderation is in
order, Look at their faces and judge for
yourself.

SHADOWS

Honors should be striven for.
not worth the effort why should they be recog-

|

If they were |

nized? In every phase of college life there is |
recognition for the man who distinguishes him-

self. Scholarship, athletics, debating, leader-
ship, literary activities and other phases of ac-
tivity all have their reward in the offices which
they bring as well as in the various honor so-
cieties for distinction in special branches.

To be elected to an office, a man must have |

the confidence of the organization which he is
to lead and serve; to make the Honor Roll, a

man must put in the hard study which means |
for him the mastery of the subject and knowl- |

edge; to make the debating team, a man must

learn how to speak and think clearly ; to make

his mark in literary work ,a man must by con-

stant practice improve his style and master the

subject in hand; to make an athletic team, a

man must give the best that is in him and work,
_ not for himself—that comes incidentally in
| every activity—but for the coach, the team, and
the school ; and so on through every activity of
college life.

To those who succeed there comes honor, the
public recognition of work well done. But to
some, the honor does not come.
in reach and then slips out of their grasp. The
failure to secure it comes as a bitter disappoint-
{ ment. Then is the time that tests a man’s soul.
But after all, what are honors? They are
| merely the shadow of reality. The reality con-
| sists inthe work and the character and person-
| ality developed by that work. Hard work on
| the athletic field, service to the college/and the

student body through work in the various ac-
| tivities is what counts.

T
|

Whatever else we may have wanted to do or |

It seems with- |

* will ever be remembered.
“once over, can never come again, but the

It is true, that public recognition counts, but
personality and character can win without the
recognition. In life as in college it may be for
some that recognition will not come, but the
world is wide and there is a chance for all.

The fault in many cases lies in the perspec-
tive.
attain the reality; others attain neither. Some
strive for the reality and gain the shadows
along with the reality; others fail to get the
shadows.

While the attainment of honors is pleasant,
it is the development of character which counts.
Some walk in the sun and have a shadow; oth-
ers walk under cloudy skies and have no
shadow. * But.to the man without true char-
acter there can be no real shadow, for there
must be some reality ‘to cast a shadow.

College is the training ground for life, and
to him who puts his best into it there comes

the reality of true character developed by hard |

work, It is much more pleasant when the sun
shines, but we can still live and be men without
it. But, after all, shadows are only shadows.

THE FUTURE

The future holds in store for us what we put
into it. Every man is free to choose for him-
self.
choosing. It trains men in the higher things
of life, in the things which make life more than
a mere existence,

The work of college is to train men in |

Appreciation of the best in life is what the |

college can give to each of us.
how few take advantage of the opportunity. If
we fail to find that life is not more than ex-
istence we fail in our aim, and*he who suc-

How many or |

ceeds may measure his success by what he gets |
out of life. Paradoxical as this may seem, this |
comes in proportion as a man puts his whole |

self into life—the service of God and his fel-
law man.

Doctor Pratt has’ just concluded his meetings |

in regard to life work. He has shown man’s

proper relationship to God in regard to the ,

choice of a life work.

But whatever others |

may say or advise, the ultimate choice is left |

up to us.
future.

It is the greatest responsibility which
we have.

JUNIOR WEEK

One more week to go, until the school bells
stop tolling for five days, a period of recreation
much looked forward to by the students.

The class of '26 takes the stage for the big-
gest social event of their college course. Noth-
ing but gaiety and mirth can be expected at such
a time, and the program mapped out will in-
sure this.

If the weather man is auspicious—when has
a Junior Speaking been known without rain—

We, by our decisions, determine our |

all will be well. The class of '26 eagerly states |

that the jinx has been broken and that five days

of unalloyed happiness will result. We hope so. |

Go to it, Juniors,

DIAMOND DUST

The Wildcat ball team made an inauspicious
start against the Oak Ridge club, and then to

make matters worse, one of the players con- |

tracted the mumps.
cessful season are certainly not very bright.

The prospect for a suc- |

Whatever the team may or may not be, how- |
ever, they are due 100 per cent support from |

the student body. They are our team. If we
can do any better than they we ought to be out
there doing it instead of talking about it.

The team is fighting against big odds and |
with the backing of the student body and that |
old Davidson spirit they can come through. We |

don’t mean by “come through” that they will
be a wonder team, winning all their games, but
we mean that they will form a team, a fighting
team, a team of which Davidson will be proud
and which we will be proud to call our own.
Support that team.

MR. JOHN R. TODD

At the public ceremony of Omicron Delta
Kappa, Mr. John R. Todd, of New York, will
make the address. Mr. Todd spoke here last
year to a full audience, and those who heard
him will, no doubt, wish to hear him again.

!

Some men strive for the shadows and |

Chaff

YOU know

MY BUDDY is

ONE Smart guy.

I AND HIM went

ONE DAY OUT for a
WALK TO FIND some
DATES WHO could appreciate
OUR SHIEKISH ways, but we
COULD NOT find any to
SUIT US. SO my buddy
SAYS TO me, he says,
“LET’S GO in and

GET A DRINK—”

MY BUDDY is a

SMART GUY he is.

“OF SODA WATER.”

OH! I said all right.

WELL NEITHER I nor him
HAS ANY JACK with us or else
WHERE. BUT my buddy claims
TO HAVE a swell idea.

SO WE go inside.

HE SAYS to the

GUY, he says,

“GIMME TWO cigars.”
THAT ‘WHICH is done then.
THEN HE SAYS, “NO, I believe
I'LL swap these cigars for a
COUPLE OF drinks instead.”
WHICH IS done then.

AND WE start out,

AND THE guy

SAYS, “Pay me for

THE DRINKS,” he says.

MY BUDDY then he says,

“IT GAVE YOU the cigars for
THE DRINKS, didn’t I.”
“WELL PAY for the —
CIGARS then.”

“OH, I GAVE you

BACK the cigars, so

WE AR EVEN, we are even.”
MY BUDDY IS ONE smart guy.

A stroll over the campus as done by the “DAY BY
DAY” journalist :

Springtime. Trees putting out everywhere. Crowds
of college youths. Flap-legged trousers, and gay
sweaters. Horse-shoe pitching teams; mighty tame.
Water thrown from dormitory upon astonished Fresh-
man. The barracks need a new coat of paint. I notice
that Thomson automobile has been removed. Jethro
running from an occupant of East. New Chambers
Building. Bus for Charlotte. Boys going to spend
the old man’s money. Ice-cream cones and chocolate
bars. Merry horsing among a group of students.
Aroma of cheese sandwiches. Mail time. Letters
from the girl; letters from home, letters with money,
and letters without money. A clothing agent. Three
professors in conversation. Wonder what the English
lesson is for tomorrow. “The supper!bell. Streams of
boys from the buldings. And so the walk is ended.

A POEM

(Written by Spider Webb the morning after the Soph
banquet)

An eight letter word meaning tomcat,
Who put soap in my shoe?

Three rousing cheers for Abe Lincoln,
Razor blades, red ink and glue. a
The mink is a fish eating animal.
And movies cost ten cents each;
She had brown eyes like an angel,
You can have all I can't reach.

Frogs go round and round in the likker,
Exactly how loud is a shout?
If cigars cost 5 cents each
What makes the lights go out?
F. K. B.

| ODE ON THE MISREPRESENTATIONS

He is one of the thirty-six alumni and friends |
of the college who will be initiated at that time.
No speaker could give a more forceful address |

on such an occasion than Mr. Todd.
come him as a true friend of Davidson.

We wel-

Tuesday, March 17, the Seniors met at an
enjoyable smoker, which called back mem-

ories of the Soph Banquet two years before. |

Every two weeks from now till the end of
their college life the Seniors will’ meet to
senew the associations“which four years of
fellowship have strengthened. As Com-
mencement draws nearer the ties of friend-
ship are strengthened, and in later years
College days,

Faeeapipe formed there will live on through
ife.

|
}
|
'
|
|
|
|
|

RECOLLECTED FROM EARLY
CHILDHOOD

An eight letter word meaning polecat,
Who put soap in my shoe?

Three rousing cheers of Abe Lincoln,
Razor blades, red ink, and glue.

The mink is a fish-eating animal,
Movies cost 15c each;

She had brown eyes like an angel,
You can have all I cannot reach.

Frogs swim round in the likker,
Exactly how loud is shout?

If cigars only cost 5c each
What makes the lights go out?

F. K. B.

“What yo’ got in that little black bag?”

“Them’s my instruments. I’m a veterinary.”

“Quit yo’ kiddin’, man. Yo’ ain’t never been in
no wah!” i
