TieDAV I SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 1, 1925

No. 3

WIN OVER WOFFORD PRECEDES CLASH WITH BAPTISTS

Garrity and Younger Training Elevens
for Big Battle in Charlotte Saturday

Wake Forest Gets Off With Decisive Victory Over Carolina—Wildcat |
Forwards Outweighed Over Ten Pounds Each—Baptists Have
Wonder Backs—Both Teams Fast

The eyes of North Carolina football fans are centered this week upon Coach Hank
Garrity and Coach Monk Younger as each primes his eleven for the classic of the

day Saturday.
between Carolina's youthful coaches.

The clash on Wearn Field in Charlotte is the second gridiron battle
But the battle will be quite a different thing from

the last between Davidson and Wake Forest. Those were the days of weakness among
both Baptists and Presbyterians, and the 6-0 victory that Wake Forest rang up in 1923

brought little honor to the Baptist team.

However, this year it is another story.
Having smashed the championship hopes of
the Tar Heels for the second consecutive
‘year, the Wake Forest crew is ‘sailing
through North Carolina for another cham-
pionship. Coach Garrity has sent the vet-
eran Fetzers to the shelf as football coaches,
and the people of the state are today watch-
ing him and Younger.

Coach Garrity showed the world that he
can refill great gaping holes in his line with-
out injuring his team, for last year his vic-
tory over Carolina was by only a single
point, while this year a touchdown was the
margin, In Riley and Daniels he has two
aggressive ends, while Emmerson at center
and Ellerbe at tackle are among the state’s
foremost linesmen.

However, it’s not his line that will receive
the attention, nor will it draw the crowd.
In the “four horsemen” Coach Garrity has a
crew that will bear more watching than any
backfield in the South Atlantic States, for
Rackley, Greason, Ober and Karleskint are
wonders for speed and drive, while it was
Chackles, long famous on the Asheville High
team, who scored against Carolina,

Monk Younger is strengthening his team
for the Wake Forest clash by sending Brassy
Baker back to tackle, where he won his
berth on the All-State team last year, while
Red Grey goes to right guard. The change
is necessitated by the injury of Red Ander-
son, who has been showing up unusually well
at tackle.

The Wake Forest team has not suffered a

(Continued on page 3)

Six Fraternities
Perfect Definite
Plans for Houses

With the serving of notice to those fra-
ternties, which are now occupying halls in
Oak and Elm Rows, by the college, that
after the first of the year the college would
need these two buildings for other purposes,

. active plans have been started towards the
building of individual fraternity houses.

These four fraternities, Beta Theta Pi,
Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, and Pi Kappa
Alpha, have adopted the small house
plan which the Board of Trustees has recom-
mended to the fraternities on the Hill. This
provides for the building of houses together
on Concord street, near the athletic field, and
the forming of a Fraternity Row. In this
way the fraternity life of the college would
become centered together, and a greater feel-
ing of unity and co-operation would be
created in these groups.

By adopting the small house plan it means
that the fraternities will build only a small
house with no-sccjitig accommodations. The
houses will consist only of a large reception
hall, lounging room, kitchenette and meeting
room. The members will not room in their
houses but remain in the dormitories on the
campus.

Two fraternities, the Phi Gamma Delta
and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, are now oc-

(Continued on page 3)

|
|
|
|

HONORARY FRATERNITY
COUNSELORS

The following are the 10 fraterni-
ties invited to join the newly organized
council of honorary fraternities :

A. H. Hollingsworth
Rk. B. Parker
J. J. Earnhardt-Gamma Sigma Epsilon
B. E. Miller Biology Club

C.F. Smith Delta Pi Kappa

ee BicMborGsccucancupcs aus I. R. Club
Cry Houtoneso2oe Philosophy Club
L. B. Huie-------Scabbard and Blade
R. W. Graves_------Sigma Pi Sigma
S. W. Brown------2-- Sigma Upsilon

Quips and Cranks Staff
Plans Larger ' Year Book

George Shaddock Chosen to Succeed
Kenneth Harris as Head of Art
Department

H. L. Shaw, the editor-in-chief of the 1926
Quips and Cranks, announces that the entire
staff is already hard at work, and expects to
put out an annual that will surpass any ever
published at Davidson. The new year book

will be essentially the same in size, but will '

be superior in material; also, a radical change
will be made in the cover. Professor Er-
win's old class room in Eu Hall has been
turned over to the staff to be used as head-
quarters for material. All the work possible
will be done here.

It is the desire of the staff to make this
book one that is more distinctive, that is a
truer characterization of the college life at
Davidson, rather than a portrayal of college
life in general. It is to be a printed repro-
duction of the Wildcat spirit as it is seen in
the different student activities. It is to be the
culmination of the year’s work of The Da-
vidsonian in that it will be the greatest shock
from the “livest wire on the hill.”

(Continued on page 5)

RACKLEY, WAKE FOREST

Not a small part of the great success of
the Wake Forest eleven has been due to
the wonderful generalship of Rackley,
as well as his swift dashes around the
ends.

‘jindebted for the organization of this council.

|
‘Honorary Fraternities _

Organize Council for |
Control of Activities

New Council to Eliminate Former
Conflicts in Bidding Among
Honorary Organizations

The Honorary Fraternity Council, an or-
ganization in which the honorary fraternities
on the Hill each have a representative, was
formed last week. This council is the same
to the honorary fraternitics as the Pan-Hel-
lenic Council is to the social fraternities,
Each honorary fraternity that has been in-’
vited to be a member of the council has
selected a man to be their representative.
This man can represent only one organiza-
tion.

The main purposes of the council are to
formulate a practical meeting schedule for
all the organizations; heretofore several of
the meeting have conflictd and a man weho
has been a member of several of the fra-
ternities has been unable to attend all the
meetings. A regular bid day will also be de-
cided upon and no fraternity will be allowed
to bid before this day. A regular place for
meetings will also be decided upon, and all
matters that concern the honorary fraterni-
ties mutually will be considered,

Davidson College has long felt the need
of an organization such as this, but all at-
tempt to create this council before have
failed. R. B. Parker, R. W. Graves, and L.
B. Huie are the men to whom the campus is

From the first, the hearticst endorsement of
all concerned has been received. All the or-
ganizations that have been invited to join
have accepted. Representation on the coun-
cil is limited to those organizations which
have been asked to join by special invitation.

The council plans to show deference to
the Student Council, Davidsonian Staff, and
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, since these organiza-
tions, not coming strictly under the head of
honorary fraternities, are prominent on the
campus. This council by virtue of its posi-
tion will rapidly become a powerful force on
the Hill. It is quite an honor..both for an
organization and an individual to have a posi-
tion on this council.

The following are the fraternities invited
to join and their representatives: Alpha Phi
Epsilon, Roland Parker; Gamma Sigma Ep-
silon, J. J. Earnhardt; Biology Club, M. E.
Miller; Delta Pi Kappa, C. F. Smith; In-
ternational Relations @lub, J. E. Moore;
Omicron Delta Kappa,. A. H. Hollingsworth;
Philosophy Ciub, C. £. Houston; Scabbard
and Blade, L. B. Huie; Sigma Pi Sigma,
R. W. Graves; Sigma Upsilon, S. W.
Browne.

Mrs. B. W. Romefelt and little son are
the guests of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey

Jim Hendrix led the Wavidson Wildcats
Terriers.

Again generaliship won a football game.

with Dick Grey besting Fulk, of Wofford,
for a break and when the break came he
in all, Hendrix played the game more like
signals.

One Hundred Candidates|

Try Out for Glee Club

Extensive Southern Tour Planned
for Singers in Addition to Special
Entertainments

One hundred men, forty upperclassmen
and sixty Freshmen, including nineteen of
last year, tried out for the Glee Club on
Wednesday evening, September 23. Mrs, R.
H. Daughterity, assisted by D. G. Wilson,
C. Barr, took charge of the try-out. From
were retained as likely material. This num-
ber is to be reduced within the week to 40,
the quota of members set for the coming
season, The club will be slightly larger
than it has been in the past, only 32 having
made the trips in 1924-25. Regular practice
will begin about the first of October.

Mrs. Coral Baker will again direct the
chorus. Mrs. Baker, who is from Charlotte,
has contributed greatly to the success of the
organization for the past two years, and the
officers feel that they are fortunate in secur-
ing her services. T. C. Barr will have charge

(Continued on page 5)

HENDRIX, DAVIDSON

The game Saturday will be a great duel
between the two quarters, and according
to the Work of Hendrix against Wofford,

for a few days.

the duel will be a brainy one.

president of the club; Frank Hudson and T. |

the 100 aspirants for a place in the club 46}

Hendrix Scores Lone Touchdown in 7-0
Victory Over Fighting Terrier Eleven

Wildcat Machine Smashes Wofford Defense After McConnell Recovers
Fumble—Terriers Sweep Field Twice But Passes Intercepted
—Grey Stars With Vance and Richie

Sweeping around the Wofford right end for a touchdown in the second quarter,

to their cighth consecutive victory over the

The two teams had exchanged nine punts
by a few yards each kick, Hendricx played
played it for a touchdown and victory. All
a seasoned quarter than a halfback calling

Makes Mistake

Deep in their own territory in the first
half the Wofford quarter made the fatal
| mistake of calling for a lateral pass, which
going wild was scrambled for in vain till
Joe McConnell covered it on the Wofford
25-yard line. Then Hendrix gathered his
lteam for the final plunge to victory. Black
|made a scanty yard over center, but Grey
clipped off 14 on a reverse play. Then Black
{hit the line again for a short gain. The
| master stroke came when Hendrix faked the
same reverse but instead drove through the
center of the line for eight yards and first
down on Wofford's one-yard line.

The great defensive team that Rip Major
has built came to life, stopped the next two
| plunges, but was swept off its feet when
Hendrix raced around the end for the win-
ning touchdown.

One of the most beautiful plays of the game
had preceded all’ this, when Dick Grey, at-
tempting to punt, missed the pass, raced back
to get the ball and booted it for 53 yards up
the field. Later on in the game Grey pulled
a hair-raising play when he snatched a
Wofford pass off the hands of several Ter-
riers and Wildcats. He caught a pass, he
steadily booted the ball for long punts, he
raced the ends, and once he stood alone be-
tween Wofford and a touchdown. Grey,
with Hendrix, vied for honors in the back-
field.

Following the Davidson touchdown Wof-
ford made a grand plunge down the field,

(Continued on page 8)

Manhood Theme
of Forceful Talk
by Famous Orator

Bishop Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem,
noted divine of the Moravian Church, deliv-
ered a highly inspirational address before
300 students and townspeople at the Y. M.
C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. “Char-
acter and Manhood” was the theme treated
and the thoughts expressed by the speaker
made a profound impression on his hearers
as evidenced by the rapt attention
throughout.

In his introductory remarks Dr. Rond-
thaler referred to the search for immortal
life that had been conducted by DeSoto in
former days, saying that he found nearest
approach to such life in contact with young
men.

“Character is the sum of the ethical traits
that go to make up the moral personality.
As such it is synonymous with life itself, for
life is expressed in character.”

Was

Character was represented as.the circle of
dite, with the virtues that go {o make up the
character being points on the circumference
of the circle, the crown virtue of character
occupying the center of the circl.

“Manhood,” continued the speaker,” is the
last reserve-of character that one brings into
the battle of life. It is like the great reserve
of an army always held in waiting for the

(Continued on page 6)

