THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

ALUMNI NEWS.

| R.O. T. C. News

Literary Societies

NOTES : |
AES EEBISS: | DAVIDSON
‘o—Major A. L. James, of Charlotte, | FIVE YEARS AGO

was on the Hill Saturday afternoon. |
Major James, whose signed editorials |
have been head with a great deal of in-
terest, is a graduate of West Point. He

This week five years ago the Wildcat
guint had just returned from a trip

served in France during the World War liber de eit Carolina, Protea from
{the University and Wofford, and losing

and wa&s cited for bravery by General toP.C ic
; re : {to P. C. anc emson.
Pershing, the King of Belgium and the
President of France. Tait; ki 1 all tl
; rey | Junior speaking was over and all the
16—T. C. Sparrow was up for the game “fire” . : 1 eA A | ‘dli d
4 ¥ i ny al e one home. A h ine read,
Saturday night. He is a physician in ,, ae. ; ae Star
Charlotte Juniors acquit themselves with honor,
au ‘ : ‘ would-be orators speak for once with-
15—J. M. Van Devanter, who is now | j at
a faery ; .. | Out manuscripts.” The paper also com-
at Tucson, Ariz. is much improved in i
fealth ‘mented that it was one of the best
ieee 7% ; ; speaking in many a year. On an inside
16—-H. H. Wilcox is now in Nf os f le en t : t
; net yage were four large pictures represent-
surance business in Elberton, Ga. ! 5 tl Halt | ri rs ai
Ves a7 pare cealth | ve causes of the Junior Speaking
17—E. P. Nisbet was on the Hill Sat- & ee A 5 ue . us
Grilae _heart-aches. The issue was not stinting
vias ‘ ‘in its praise of the success of the big
23—P. B. Guthery farce : oe
i r social event.
game Saturday night.
'22—M. C. Dew, of Charlotte visited his
brother here during the week-end,

in-

the

was up for the

The million dollar campaign had just
closed with great success. Already the
| ° .
grand sum of $1,004,018 had been raised

Marriages | 5 .
j i aes jand all of the reports had not come in.
11—Dr. R. C. Sample, of Henderson-
,;Of that amount $400,000 was to go to

ville, and Miss Laura Candler, of Max- | : :
; : y ee Davidson College and the rest to be
ton, were married on February 2tst. The | :
ven : ae proportioned among ten other colleges
couple left immediately for Florida, Doc- |
c i ay) ee and prep schools.
tor Sample is a rising young physician.

The prospects for a good baseball team
were very good. There were nine letter
j}men back and about 75 other candidates.
| Coach Hengeveld was-busy getting a line
on his men,

TWO DEPUTATIONS PROVE
BENEFICIAL TO BOYS

S’x Davidson Students Make
Speeches in Two Neighboring
Cities

——- program as was carried out at Moores-
Two important and profitable deputa-| ville. Both made several speeches at the
tions were held during the past two) schools and churches of Newton.

weeks. One team consisting of J. As:
McAlpine, D, H. Stewart and J. M. Ap-| DOCTOR YATES SPEAKS TO
pleby -went to Mooresville, the deputa- | MINISTERIAL BAND

tion lasting throughout Friday, Satur-
day and Sunday. At the high school au-| Dr. O. I. Yates, for many years a mis-
ditorium they took part in the chapel! sionary to China, spoke to the Minis-
exercises on Friday morning. Piggy! terial Band at their meeting Sunday in
Martin’s quartet, consisting of Wilson, | Shearer Hall. Dr. Yates is at present in
Lockhart, Lowrance and Martin was al-| this country on an extended furlough.
so present and took part in the exercises.; The speaker based his talks on three
The quartet, however, came pack after | questions, which the president of the col-
the chapel was over. vu

| lege he had attended as a young man

On Saturday afternoon, the members) had brought out in an address before the
went on a hike with the HiY boys. They| college Ministerial Band.
reported that the Mooresville lads have a! tions
commendable organization. Sunday} candidates were:
morning each of them held a class at} with Jesus?
different churches. Sunday afternoon} work? Where shall we carry on our
marked the final and climatic meeting, |life’s work? Briefly passing over the
in which A. H. Hollingsworth was the| first and second questions, he based his
speaker. At this meeting Martin's quar- | talk mainly on the third question,
tet was again present to assist in the)“Where shall we carry on
program. | work

A week prior to the Mooresville depu- '
tation, C. F. Smith and S. F. Bryant went |
to Newton. This also lasted three days, |
Smith and Bryant carrying on the same

These ques-
vitally concerning all ministerial
What shall we do
What shall be our life

o”

Mrs. Lewis Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va..
was a guest at the home of her daughter,
Mrs. W. W. Woods, last week.

SODA : CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH -

Lyneh’s Pharmacy, Ine.

201 North Tryon St.

rrr III III III III

Co

Prorat rrr rrr rrr ttt tt rt ttt ttre rer rr rrr |

NONE T00 SMALL NONE T00 LARGE

We Want Y.ur Account Regardless of Its Size

ging squad,

our life's |

orchestra

Last Wednesday was the day set for
competitive squad drill in the R. O. T. C.
battalion.

Pandeinic
After the usual preliminaries, a bill was
During the forenoon squads! presented—That Congress should be empow-

iselected by the platoon were given an ered to override by a two-thirds vote de-
fopportunity to drill certain prescribed cisions of the Supreme Court which declare

movements in preparation for competi- acts of
tion in the afternoon.

Congress unconstitutional, J. R.
The best squad Falls and W. B. Price upheld the affirmative
from cach company was selected during , against 1. M. McCutchen, J. M. Garrison,
the morning drill and these squads com-'J. E. Moore and G, H. Zimmerman for the
peted for honors during the afternoon negative. The bill was defeated. Another
period. The corporals of the squad in bill was presented—That the North Carolina
each company were: Co, A, Covington; Legistature should adopt the port terminals
Co. B, Jack Hand; Co. C, Joe McConnell; bill.
Co. D, W. B. Kiser.

: Eumenean
In the afternoon the best squad from

The last meeting of the Eumenean Society
each company competed for battalion yas opened with the usual reading of the
honors, The competition was very close, ninutes and the roll call. President Purdy
the decision finally being awarded to the then gave the floor to H. L. Shaw, Jr. in
squad representing Company D, W.

zs regard to the use of the hall for Junior
Kiser corporal.

Covington’s squad was Speaking purposes. The matter was tabled
Probably the closest company until the next meeting.

competition between Corporal ‘The program of the evening started with
Kiser’s squad and that of Corporal W. 5. a debate whose query read, Resolved, That
Woods, sboth in) company D. It was jhe United States should inerease her naval
necessary for the judges to carry this | forces, W. 1. Lingle and C, R. Rowe de-

second,

Was

competition over until the afternoon pated on the atfirmatice and R. A. Duke
period to decide the winner.¢ and C. FB. Smith upheld the negative. The
Following the competitive drill) the yote was two to one for the negative.

battalion staged a special ceremony at The society applauded A. M. Martin ex-
which medals were presented to the win- tensively on his oration Money and Its
A medal was also presented [alucs. J. M. Murchison gave a declama-
to T. G. Purcell who led the firing in the tion and the meeting was closed with current
Freshman class last year. Harry Vanee events by Ff. D, Daniels.

was presented with a medal for winning :

Metrophilian

the light heavy-weight wrestling cham- is ; i ;
Ihe following officers were installed at

pionship in the R.O. T. C. training camp f fa ier
the meeting the Metrophilian Society

at Camp McClellan, Ala. last: summer, ee ; ACR :
After the presentation of the medals, the last Tuesday night: x) C. nay, president;
S. Christenberry, vice-president; G. Kk.

Sims, seeretary; D. B. Wharton, critic; W.
L. Albright and M. G, Lyerly, supervisors.

On the debate for the night J. G. Hand
and M. G. Lyerly upheld the bill, Resolved,
That the United States should inerease her
naval forces, while J. Z. MeDaniels and J.
M. Andrew took the opposite side. ‘The
affirmative won the decision of the judges.

ot

battalion was reviewed by the winners
of these medals. Many of the board of
trustees the afternoon
drill and all seemed highly pleased with
the showing made by the battalon,

also” witnessed

Captain Daugherity is in charge of the
rifle team which is now competing with
other institutions of the South. In the

Professor Wachter was present and gave a
short and illuminating talk on Vital Think-
ing Through Muscles.

Philanthropic

The newly elected officers of the Philan-
thropic Literary Society were installed at the
meeting last Thursday night. The main
feature of the ceremony was the inaugural
address by F. E. Calhoun, the new president.
The other officers installed were A. B. Willi-
ford, vice-president; C. G. Davis, secretary ;
J. E. Holshouser, critic; D. M. Calhoun and
E. E. Lingle, supervisors.

The program for the evening consisted of
an oration and the regular weekly debate, the
subject of which was Resolved, That the
United States should increase her naval
forces. A, B. Williford and E. E. Lingle,
of the negative, defeated C. W. Crinkley and
W. S. Gordon, of the affirmative. W. L.
Baker gave an interesting oration on Charac-
ter Building.

Your teacher will tell you,
a clean shaven face in over-
alls looks better than need-
ing a shave in full dress.

The Ingersoll

Razor Strop
gives you 300 shaves from

one blade.

Ask the clerks at

White Drug Co.

to tell you how to
look pleasant

first match the standing of the scores |
did not appear to be very good, but it is
believed that after the team gets under
way they will make a better showing.

Captain George is working every after-
/noon getting the rifle and pistol ranges.
|in condition for spring firing. He expects
{to have the Freshmen firing on the out-

EAT AT

THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE

|door range sometime in March. The
| Sophomores will have a course in Pistol-
| firing sometime during March also.

|GLEE CLUB SCORES HIT

THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

IN NEARBY AUDITORIUM

The Davidson song birds winged their
| flight over to Cornelius last Saturday
night and entertained the populace of

that thriving metropolis with a very
interesting performance at the high
school auditorium. There were about

j two hundred people-were-present and
Fevery one enjoyed the program.

Ed. Wilson, as he always does, made
a hit with audience by singing his selec-
tion of popular songs. The Kiser broth-
ers also met with the approval of the
audience judging from the signs of im-
mense applause. They entertained the
people for quite a while with their
original black face act. The clog dance
staged by the Kiser twins met with much
approval not only with the audience but
with the glee club itself, as one of the
pair whistled while the other did some

SUNDAY

4:00 o'clock of the afternoon
the most dangerous hour
in America

Are you, too fully prepared?
for the answer

McAlister Carson, Manager (13)

Charlotte. N. C.

Watch future issues

old-time country clog dancing. The jazz

dedicated Tessie to the chief
of police of that city, who favored them
with his presence.

On March tith the Glee Club is plan-
ning to make a trip to Lexington, N. C.
The entire performance will be under
the auspices of Watt McCain, a former
student ef Davidson, who graduated in.
the class of ’24.

VOLUNTEER BAND

The Volunteer Band held its weeklv

BELK BROS.

CHAR LO T 7-4

Headquarters For

Young Men’s College Suits

R. A. DUNN, President
< C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President .

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,2

meeting last Sunday morning at 10:15
o'clock in the “Y” reading room of the
evmnasium. The devotional part of the
meeting was led by Burns Gibbs, the
| President of the band.

Archie Ray and Ben Wharton, who
were delegates to the Volunteer Con-
vention at Chanel Hill. were the speak-
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer lers of the morning; and their talks were
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier ‘in the nature of a report on the Con-

e5 | vention. : |
| '

I. W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office

|
000.00 | Mrs. A. A McGeachy, of Charlotte, |

Special Values Being Offered in
Wide Bottom Pants

In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell Bottom Pants

In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money

| spent Wednesday with her parents Dr.|
| and Mrs. C. R. Harding. |

