THE DAVIDSONIAN,, APRIL 30, 1925.

©

ENNIS
EAM
RIUMPHS

ES—WE’LL
HAVE
OUNGER

“On the Square”’

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The TATE-
BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

**COLLEGE!”

That's what the new Soctety

Brand Boulevard says to you
College clothes are not

Col-

lege men wear what they

like other clothes.

like and if Fifth Avenue
doesn’t like it, so much
the worse for Fifth Ave-
nue. Society Brand make
clothes. for college men.
That’s why they make
the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner
and Urner Oxfords

Manhattan Shirts

Spalding : Rea

Wildkittens Beat State

Freshmen in Earlier
on Tour

The Davidson .Wildkittens returned to the
campus late Saturday night after a four-day
trip over the state, winning one contest and
losing two, the fourth one with Duke Uni-
versity being rained out. The Davidson
Freshmen were able to win the last game
from State Yearlings, dropping the other
two to the Carolina and Wake Forest Fresh-
men. This was a total of 11 games for this
season, of which the Freshmen have won
seven,

Carolina Freshmen were met first, and
the young Tar Heels won a 9-1 victory, due
principally to the large number of errors
made by the Davidson Freshmen, The
Carolinians made only eight hits off Poole,
none of them for an extra base, which would
ordinarily mean a tight game, with the Wild-
kittens getting five bingles, one of them a
two-bagger by Maulden, the only extra base
hit of the game. Maulden was the star of
the Davidson team that day, getting three
hits and a walk out of four times up. Deal
and Young, for Carolina, both were credited
with two bingles.

CAROLINA FRESH

ABR HPOA E

Men yvebreece see sue see 4+ be. 6 2 1
DEA etitiancvecda shaun 88 BBW
YOUNG sil Discourses aes 43260 0
Machicpict; 22222cesee2 ce Chat jt (I
\UAL E005) by oD eaptesetope a eres 401200
Wiébbrobsesesseer no See 408314 16-2.0
Batty eSGecee cose e see oO W 2 6. Il
MUtphiyjeG sesso ones cece 4-1 4-6-1 1
(ChENET, 1) eae 41.020) 15-0
otal Sexes eee 2s 225587. 19048927. 20d
DAVIDSON FRESH ABR HPOAE
Nohnsonwclesesssessane es 500201
NUP IGE USS conse ele SO 0 ae
Arrowood, 1b il i) 7 sl
MulenyGhy 22 ss a 00110
Matildenjuri: 2222220525 303 001
Poole, p ------ 000 0 0
McGeachey, c 00501
Bd Wwardsyltessasean se. 2eee 01600
McAulay, 2b ) O G i 2
Ota Se os OS, 36 1 524 5 8

Summary—Two-base hit: Maulden; sacri-
fice hit: Machie; stolen bases: Deal, Webb;
bases on balls: off Graham 1, off Poole 1;
struck out: by Graham 8, by Poole 4; um-
pire: Sides.

Wake Forest Freshmen was the second
team encountered on the trip, and they took
the Wildkittens into camp with ‘a 7 to 2 vic-
tory, this game being another in which er-
rors were frequent by the Davidson
Freshmen, there being a total of seven. How-
ever, Oden was touched for 11 hits, while
the Wake Forest pitcher, James, held the
Wildcats to only five, the number they had
made the day before. Dulen and Edgar
made two bingles each, while the fifth hit
by Davidson was a home run by Johnson.
Phelps and Clayton, for Wake Forest, made
three each, Clayton getting a two-bagger and
a triple.

An interesting fact in this game is that
there were 21 assists by the Wake Forest
Freshmen for the 27. The Wilkittens evi-
dently were laying down easy rollers, the
first baseman getting 16 putouts. In addi-
tion to Clayton's excellent hitting he made
eight assists at shortstop.

,W. FOREST FRESH ABR HPOAE
Joyner, 3b 30003 0
| James, p --------- Gee aliale 3310
Chahles, 2b - Sole lp 2e 5220)
Clayton, ss 5 3 3 3.8 0
Baticompictessaseeeae sans 512000

\ (Continued on page 5)

Wright & Ditson

Goldsmith Goods

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

18 East Trade Street

in Closing Game of Trip
Carolina and Wake rier Gang |

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

We can breathe better now since Coach
Monk Younger has signed a two-year con-
tract. For a while we were beginning to
think that we would be minus his services
next year.

His decision to come back not only brings

forth an ovation from the student body, but
‘from the Davidson alumni and friends, as
| well as the football fans.
! It’s only human nature to boost the team
that is fighting against odds, and fans will
be delighted to know that Davidson will have
a similar team on the field this year.

That is, they will have the same tactics
and principles inculcated into their playing.
And the team will have a coach to play for
whom they like. :

It’s not merely the team that likes Coach
Monk, but the student body as a whole. We
cannot help but admire his cleanness in ath-
letics, and as long as he is at Davidson that
is the only type of playing that can be ex-
pected.

We wish we knew tonight (Monday)
whether Coach Tilson will sign up. We hope
he will, since this: pair has worked together
so effectively during the past two seasons.

It’s not coaches fault that we haven’t been
winning baseball games. We won from
Guilford, even though it did look as if we
were about to lose it for a while, when we
had the edge on them 1 to 5. They came
back strong and made six runs,

All Davidson teams have been fairly suc-
cessful this year except the baseball. The
tennis team came in late Saturday night with
four victories and one defeat out of five
hard matches,

University of Maryland, Navy, University
of Virginia, Union Seminary and Winston-
Salem Country Club are five good teams, and
to have been as successful is a credit to the
team,

Staley did not lose a single match. It's
true that Harry Price lost some matches, but
it must be remembered that every team pitted

| their best against’ Harry, and he had a hard
time all the way through, while the others
| had easier men,

Davidson vs. Davidson would have been a
better title for the Union Seminary match,
since three of those against the Wildcats
| graduated from here.

Two champions in Hugh Bradley and Her-
ry Price were matched against each other,
and the champion of three states, Bradley,
won.

Roy, of Clemson, can certainly leave a trail
of dust. The 440-yard dash was a beautiful
run,

John Currie says the 440-yard dash isn't
in his line, but we think that with some train-
ing it would be conspiciously in his line. He
certainly “caught air” on the 100-yard dash
when he made it in 9 9-10 seconds.

The varsity track, freshmen track and var-
sity tennis teams all make a journey to
Chapel Hill next week for the state meet.
We can rely upon them to give their best.

Carolina has made a remarkable record in
track this season, but with all the schools of
North Carolina bringing in their men, she
| will have a tough time of it then.

Johnson used the willow effectively in the
state trip, getting three out of three one day,
|two of them being triples, and getting a
home run the day before. Maulden also
imade three out of three in the Carolina
|game, the Wildcats
that day.

| Playing such teams as they did brought
| down their batting averages, but even at that
\five regulars: Poole, McGeachy, Johnson,
Maulden and Edgar are hitting over .300.
And two of these are pitchers.

getting only five hits

first; Anderson (Davidson), Blakely (Clem-

Clemson Tigers Pile Up (i) “ree @°
1-mile run—R. E. Sease (Clemson) first;

e e 'e |
Points In Wildcat Meet .)"" (Clemson), McConnell (Davidson).

Wildcats Take Only Three Places— Time 4:46 2-5.

* ; 440-yard dash—Roy (Clemson) _ first;

Cs) ie Stars
| R y and Currie S Brand (Davidson) second; - Goodykoontz
The Clemson Tigers overcame the Wild- | (Davidson). Time 51 3-5.

| cats on Richardson field Saturday by the score Pole vault—Henderson (Clemson) ‘first;
| of 81-45. Clemson gained a large margin | Anderson (Davidson), Cartee (Clemson).
by taking all first places in the track events | Height 10:10.

and by holding the Wildcats to only three! Shot put—Finkles (Clemson) first; Boggs

first places in the field events. | (Davidson), Long (Davidson). Distance
Mase, Finklea, and Robinson, tied for | 38:9,
high point honors for Clemson with 10! High jump—Calhoun (Davidson) _ first;

| points apiece. Anderson was high point man | King (Clemson), Cartee (Clemson). Height

for the Wldcats with 9 points, and Goody- 15:8, ;
koontz followed with 7. Discus throw—Finklea (Clemson) first;
Cartee, of Clemson, after having dis_Pennate (Clemson), Bohannon (Davidson).
qualified himself in the pole vault at 10] Distance 113 feet.
feet 4 inches, broke the Tigers’ record of ; Broad jump—McMillan (Davidson) first;
11 feet by clearing 11 feet 1 inch, | Dupree (Clemson), King (Clemson). Dis-
Davidson entered some of her Wildkittens | tance 20 feet 9 inches.
in the mect unofficially so as to get a line| Javelin throv—McComb (Davidson) first;
on them for next year, Currie was the Dupree (Clemson), Gracey (Davidson).
star Of this group. He came in first in the | Distance 155 feet 1-4 inch.
100-yard dash in 9:9-10 seconds. In the |
For Dental Gold, Plat-

440 he came in second only to the breaker of | CAS
inum, Silver, Diamonds»

the Southern title. Penn also made a good
magneto points, false teeth, jewelry, any

showing by coming in a very short distance |
behind Williford in the two-mile run. Mel-| valuables. Mail today. Cash by return
mail,

ton was entered in both the 440-yard dash, |
Hoke S. & R. Co., Otsego, Mich.

the high jump and the broad jump, but came |
out better in the latter in which he jumped |

18 feet 3 inches, The Freshmen who were
entered were Currie, Melton, Penn, McMil-| RONCH ITIS
lan and Nisbet. |

The spectators had a chance'to see Roy, | Apply Vicks at bedtime
of Clemson, perform. He broke the south- | rubbing it well in. Then
ern record for the 440-yard dash the week | spread on thickly and
before. This is only his second year on the | cover with hot flannel.
cinder path, so the Tigers will again have a) Arrange bed-clothes so
sure winner in him next year. Mase per- vapors will be inhaled.

formed well for the Tigers on the hurdles, |

and Robinson gained his points via |

dashes. McCombs, McMillan and eet | 5 6

got first places for Davidson. | P
The weather was the hottest of the sea- VarpoRus

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

son and a good many of the participants |
seemed to be affected by it. The track gave
them some trouble also, due to the lack of
rain.

The Tigers were without a doubt the
fastest team that the Wildcats have met.
The Davidson team started the season with
V. P.I., then came Wofford, following them
the Gamecocks, and last week the Tigers.
Both of the teams enter their respective
state meets this coming week-end. Furman
is expected to be the main contender with
Clemson for the South Carolina honors.

The summary follows:

|

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

”?

100-yard dash—Robinson (Clemson) first; \ “<Jam-Up
Goodykoontz (Davidson), Mitchell (Clem-
son). Time 10 flat.

880-yard run—Newman (Clemson) first; } SERVIC E
Cannon (Clemson), McConnell (Davidson). | see
Time 2:02 1-5. | |]

120-yard high hurdles—Mase (Clemson) | *
first; Anderson (Davidson), Gracey (David- | C. M. S. McIlwaine
son)). Time 16 4-5.

2-mile run—Hart (Clemson) first; E. C.: 14 Ga.
Sease (Clemson), Williford (Davidson). |
Time 10:46 2-5, |

220-yard dash—Robinson (Clemson) first; | Agent for

Goodykoontz OE Nault) Brand (David- | Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

son). Time 22 4-5,
220-yard low hurdles-——-Mase (Clemson) '

All kinds of accessory clothing
shown every Friday in the lobby
of West Dormitory by

Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

_ Wholesale

Whe: You Need Candy
See Us

~ 26-28 S. College St
_ CHARLOTTE, N. C.

