THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Exhibits at Carolinas
Exposition are Viewed
by Many Davidson Men

Special Interest Centers About Ex-
hibit of North Carolina State
College

Thousands who have seen the Carolinas
Exposition, which has been in Charlotte
since September 21st, pronounce the exhibits
more choice than those of any of the previous
years, and many who have seen the fabric
shows in New York say that the Carolinas
Exposition is far head of them.

A large exhibition hall is filled from end
to end with brilliant displays of cotton, linen,
silk, and fiber silk materials. The variety of
style and color is equal to that of a Parisian
salon of fashion. Several fashion shows
have been conducted by the leading business
firms of Charlotte, using as their models
some of the most popular young people of
that city. The state textile department from
N. C. State College has an excellent display
in designs and workmanship which denotes
much skill and genius.

Many Davidson students have been at-
tracted to Charlotte by the exposition and
most especially by the appearance of Miss
Lois Wilson, popular screen star, on last
Friday and Saturday. Mis Wilson appeared
at the concert last Friday night and later at
the ball given in her honor. She was pre-
sented to the enhusiastic crowd of admirers
which formed her audience, by ex-Governor
‘Morrison, after which she made a brief talk,
relating how she had declined the invitation
before she had learned where the exposition
was to be held. Upon learning that it was
to be in Charlotte she had changed her at-
titude to one of eggerness. Miss Wilson
added that she was always ready to visit: any
place south of the Mason and Dixon line, for
she herself was a true Southerner.

The spacious music room of the exposition
building was filled to capacity, with several
hundred men, women and children standing in
the aisles, doors and other available spaces,
all anxious to catch a glimpse of the popular
and charming actress. The men were eager
to see her just for the sake of seeing, but
the ladies had a deeper intent in mind. No
sooner had she stepped from behind the cur-
tain than scores of the latter sex sprang
from their seats in a frantic effort to see the
style, color, material and length of the gown
‘worn by the famous star.

While this scene was taking place in the
auditorium, several hefty policemen were
‘contending with the large crowd of visitors
below. Some had come for miles for the
purpose of viewing the heroine of the screen,
only to find that they had been too long on
the road and that the doors were all closed
to further entrance. Various ejaculations
from irritated grown-ups, cries of “I’ve lost
my mamma” from children, and winsome
flirtations from presuming “Misses,” were
all to no avail in gaining entrance to the
much coveted upper floor.

Miss Wilson appeared at the 5:00 o'clock
show at the Imperial on Saturday afternoon,
after which she left for the Long Island
studios, where she is at work on her new
picture, “Irish Luck.”

QUIPS AND CRANKS STAFF

(Continued from page 1)

E. K. Regen has been added to the staff as
the photographic editor. He will have charge
of taking the pictures of individuals and of
the campus that are to appear in the annual,
The staff has experienced a great loss in
that Kenneth Harris has left to attend an
art school in the North. Kenneth had charge
of the art department last year, and did such
excellent work that his place will be hard to
fill. However, George Shaddock, who ‘has
charge this year, expects to uncover some
good material among the members of the
new class.

The “Quips and Cranks” is the book pub-
lished annually by the’ Senior class. It con-
tains information about the classes, fraterni-
ties, athletics, musical and literary organiza-
tions, and various other matters of interest
in connection with college life. Any sugges-
tions or aid from the student body will be
appreciated, as the book is a student publica-
tion, and should be representative of the
whole college.

Business Manager Deck sends out a call
to the men of the new class. . Any that have
Sge2re time and are willing to help, can do so
in the new office as solicitors or filers. The
same companies will have charge of the pub-
lication this year as last. The Benson Com-
pany, of Nashville, will print and bind the
book; Jahn and Ollier, of Chicago, will do
the engravink; the White Studios, of New
York, will make the class pictures; and the
Molloy Company will furnish the covers.

‘Magazine Editors _

Plan First Issue

Plans for the coming year for the David- |
‘son College Magazine were announced this |
week by. Editor-in-chief C. F. Monk. Al-!
though the staff of the magazine has not had |
time to fully organize their several depart- |
| ments it is an assured fact that this repre- |
sentation of the literary talent of the David- |
‘son student body is going to have one of its
most successful. years. Last year the An- |
thology issue was the only attempt of the,
writers of the school, but plans have thus far |
'been formulated to place before the public
this season four issues that will in every way
fill the need that so many of the students |

have felt. |

The heads of the different departments as.
j announced are: R. B. Parker, in charge of |
all the essays; Wood Brown, chief of the
short story section; J. H. Caligan, who has
j had several of his poems printed in repre- |
| sentative nation-wide periodicals, as the
eects, editor ;.and Warren Ogden is to con-
| duct the Caps and Bells section of the maga-
|zine. Ogden promises to place before the
readers a high type of wit.
| Interviewing these department heads one
|note of appeal was sounded by-all. They re-
quest the student body to place in their
hands just as soon as possible such material |
that they have on hand. Tentative plans as
stated by the editor-in-chief include the is- |
suing of the first copy of the magazine about |
| Thanksgiving day, and then to put out three |
| issues after Christmas. The issues that are |
to appear after the holidays will have a spe- |
cialty. That is, one number will be devoted |
to poetry, one to essays and the other to short |
| stories. Humor is to be placed in proportion |
|in all of the issues.
Calligan, in stating the plans for his de- |
| partment, said as most college poetry is |
| short and catching to the eye, that magazines |
|are sometimes judged by the poems that are |
published. He wants the men to get away |
| from the catalogue style of writing and to be
| original in every possible way. In this sec-
tion no certain school of poctry is to be)
| stressed, but lyrical poems, due to their last- |
| ing value, will be in more demand. |

As to the talent among the essayist here at |
Davidson, Parker stated that it is of the very
best. Some of the essays that were in the
issue of the magazine of last year were bril-
liant in both style and subject matter, and as
most of the authors of these are still in
school the prospects in this field are almost
unlimited,
pected to have material in are: Don Whar-
ton, “Buck” Shaw, S. W. Brown, T. C, Barr,
W. S. Woods and R. W. Graves.

Wood Brown stated that in his, the short
story department, it was impossible to pre-
dict as to what sort of stories he would
have to offer for it is necessary to wait for
| the men to turn in their material. However,
in most of the college magazines it is the
| tendency of the day to get away from the
action story and bear more heavily on the
psycological type. The followers of Poe,
or rather the writers of the “horrow” style
of stories are gradually passing out.

Warren Ogden wants to do away with as
much as possible with the two-line type of
joke and to stop making the humorous de-
partment merely a reprint of;College Humor
and other such magazines.

As to the material that is desired, humor-
ous poetry, short stories, and funny sketches
are to be in great demand.

The assistants in the various departments
that’ have been selected are Fred Smith, in
the poetry section; Hayden Hollingsworth,
to help Parker; and H. C. Lawson is the
assistant short story editor. The staff of the
Magazine is very interested in their work and
want to place before the students the best
that is possible, but they are powerless to do |
a thing unless the men of the school back |
them up to the fullest degree.

HAMILTON BOULWARE ILL

Friends on the Hill of Hamilton Boulware,
otherwise known to his friends as “Ham,”
will be glad to know that he is getting along
nicely from a recent operation for appendi-
cities at City Hospital, in his home town,
Lakeland, Fla. Ham was taken ill about two
weeks ago, and, upon the advice of the col-
lege physician, he immediately: left. for his
home, and there he entered the hospital.
Under the influence of the balmy Florida air,
a quick recovery is assured Ham, and he will
be gladly welcomed back to the Hill by his
many friends.

Buy a box of coughdrops before going to
Charlotte, for if you yell as much as you
ought to do, they’ll come in handy. We're
going to be behind the team, and no matter
whether they are defeated or not, we will

! see that no separation set in.

Among the men that are ex-|

know that they did their best.

Sappenfield Gradually
Recovering from Hurts
Received in Elon Game

Popular Quarterback Will be
Allowed to Receive Visitors
in a Few Days

The latest reports concerning the condition
of “Nick” Sappenfield, Wildcat quarterback,
who suffered a compound fracture of the
bone in his left leg in the Elon game, indi-
cate that he is getting on as well as can be

expected at this time. His injury causes

|him little pain, and he seems to be in good

spirits.
The injury proved to be more serious than
it was at first thought, and it was unt until

| last Saturday that the bone was permanently

set. This delay was necessary in order to
guard against infection of the wound and to
The condition
of his leg remained favorable on Monday
and the plaster cast was applied, so it is
hoped that the worst is over now and it will
only be a matter of time until “Nick” can be
back upon the campus.

A large number of students have called to
see him while in Charlotte, but have not
been permitted to see him on account of his
nervous condition. His family are with him,
and a few visitors have been admitted from
time to time. Dr. Martin went in to see
him last Thursday and gave a favorable re-
port of his condition to the student body at
chapel Friday morning. It is thought that he
will be able to receive visitors in a few days.

He is attended by two able physicians, one
of whom, Dr, Gibbons, is a Davidson grad-
uate. Both physicians have shown special
interest in the case.

Automobile Crash
Leads to Arrests

Much excitement was created here late
Saturday afternoon after the Wofford game
when two automobiles collided in a disas-
trous accident on the main street of David-
son. A Ford roadster, occupied by Bob
Wall, his brother, and Fred Miller, of
Mooresville, struck a Ford touring care in
which were Marvin Reed, Urey and Brown.
The accident occurred in front of the resi-
dence of Mrs. S. A. Thompson, on Main
street. The roadster was entirely at fault,
according to witnesses, and was approaching
from the-north on the wrong side of the
road, It struck the touring care, which had
pulled as far to the left side of the road as
the stone wall on the campus would permit.
The touring car was thrown acress the dash
by the force of the impact. Soon after the
crash a large crowd gathered at the scene of
the accident.

None of the occupants were seriously hurt,
although two were thrown from the car by
the force of the crash. The driver of the
roadster, who was supposedly at fault, was
incarcerated in the jail at Charlotte on’ the
charge of driving a car on the state highway
while intoxicated. It is said that Bob Wall,
the driver, is already under suspended sen-
tence for a similar accident in Iredell county.

FAMOUS DOWNS
Hand me

Hits teecsss

eepeecedcteusee but, never out.
wecuueS eae with Wake Forest
GOliiPicvewscswsendadatecusius,
Goce asa Ses Ss town.
IGOCK 1G) cuasduumoueucnnunsy
IROUGhaeceteuuoskabceecccunun

ONE HUNDRED CANDIDATES

(Continued from page 1)

of the symphony orchestra, with P. B. Fry
as pianist, and B, T. Crayton and M. C.
Davis will jointly lead the jazz orchestra,
with J. G. Johnson as pianist. Special stress
will be laid on the jazz orchestra and the
prospects point toward an unusually good
one.

The program this season will be a little
shorter than heretofore and an effort will
be made to put more life and pep into it.
It will intlude choruses, solos, selections by
the jazz and symphony orchestra and songs
by two quartets.’ “The first of these quartets
will probably be composed of Lockhart, Wil-
son, Lowrance and Calhoun, and the second’
of Greene, McClain, Foster and Barr.

A 10 days’ trip through South Carolina and
Georgia is planned to begin the last of Feb-
ruary. Dates have been written for and if
the manager, Frank Hudson, is successful
the Glee Club will give entertainments in the

, following towns, on this trip:

Gastonia, N.
C., Spartanburg, S.-C., Greenville, S. C., or
Gainesville, Ga., Decatur, Ga., Atlanta, Ga.,
| Milledgeville, Ga., Augusta, Ga., Columbia,
S. C., and Rock Hill, S.C.

In addition to this main trip the club will
probably take week-end trips to Queens Col-
lege, Salem College and to nearby towns.
| The Glee Club plans to sponsor two en-
terprises besides the regular program: Stunt
' Night and a mandolin and guitar club. Stunt
Night has in former years been probably the
best patronized and most popular entertain-
;ment given before the students, It will in-
jclude music of all kinds, | plays, and four
| stunts, one given by each class.

| ss THE STAFF OF LIFE

| “Bread! Bread! Bread!” cried the
| hero, and the curtain came down with a
| roll.

Since its inception the Gen-
eral Electric Company has
pioneered in the various
fields of applied electricity.
Today G-E engineers are
co-operating with various
State agricultural commit-
tees in the study of farm
and rural electrification.
These committees include
members of the agricultural
college faculties.

A new series of G-E adver-

Aisements showing what
electricity is doing in many
fields will be sent on request.
Ask for Booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECT

SCHENECTAD LY,

GENERAL

ELECTRIC

When rural service lines bring electricity to the farmer’s door, many

of his labor troubles are at an end. Motors, large and small, will do
the many chores of farm and farm house for a few cents per day.

The Farm

Electrical

Of the six and a half million farm homes in
this country, only halfa million have electricity.

Still, the advantages of electricity are widely
known. But there is more to farm electrifica-
tion than the installation of motors, lights and
heaters. Current must be brought to the farm,

and that means many

miles of transmission

line, supporting poles, transformers, and ad-
equate generating equipment.

Slowly but surely the electrification of Amer-
ican farms is taking place. As farmers learn
how to use electricity, rural service lines reach

out farther and farther

Six million farms to be

into open country.

electrified! Here is a

vast and virgin field for the application of
electricity, with countless opportunities for
colleze-trained men in the technical and com-
mercial phases of this undertaking. And for
the agricultural college student and others
planning a future life in rural sections, it means
a better, bigger, happier life-time now in the
makin;

eg.

COMPANY,

RIC
