THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

— ae
The TATE-

BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

*“COLLEGE!”

That's what the new Society

Brand Boulevard says to you

College clothes are not
Coe
lege men wear what they
like and if Fifth Avenue

doesn’t like it, so much

like other clothes.

the worse for Fifth Ave-
nue. Society Brand make
clothes for college men.
That’s why they make
the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner
and Urner Oxfords

Manhattan Shirts

ee eee ATHLETICS THIS AND
The Varsity Track Team will stage their NEXT WEEK
first home meet of the season with the Wof-
ford track team Saturday afternoon on Rich-
ardson Field. According to reports Wofford
has one of the best teams in the history of
the school, and the Wildcats are working |
hard to make a good showing against the
visitors,

Coach Tilson is much encouraged by the,
good showing the team made at V. P. I.,/
although losing the meet, they took seven)
first places out of 14, and he expects his
charges to hit their best stride against the
Terriers. The team will be somewhat handi-
capped by the loss of the services of Red
Anderson, who has the mumps. Anderson |
won the high hurdles at Blacksburg and was
one of the high scorers. It is hoped that
Alf Brand will be able to take part in the
dashes by the time of the meet, so that the
Wildcats will be in the peak of condition,
excepting the loss of Anderson.

Wofford will probably send about a dozen

Varsity Baseball
March 31—N. C. State here.
April 3—Elon here.
April 9—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 10—Wake Forest at Wake
Forest.

Fresh Baseball
April 10—Rockingham Highs here.
April 11—Duke Fresh here.
Varsity Track
April 4—Wofford here.
April 11—South Carolina at Colum-
bia.

The Fresh and Varsity baseball and track
outfits took just the opposite start in their
initial encounters, for while the Varsity fell
by two disastrous scores, the Yearlings won
both of their clashes. However, there is
quite a bit of difference in the opposition
men, all of whom are expected to make that the two squads had to meet on the track
things interesting, and it would not be sur- andealso-onethe- baseballediamonds

prising if some of the school records were
lowered. The meet will begin promptly at

It looks like that Davidson stock is tumb-
2:30.

ling more and more on the diamond. Noth-
ing extra to start with, then two defeats by
PROF. WACHTER GIVES the Cadets, then Frank Alford off the team
BASKETBALL BANQUET with a case of mumps, and to climax it all
: Captain Teddy Covington injured (tempo-
The basketball squad was entertained by | Tarily) Monday afternoon.
Professor Wachter at a banquet last Tuesday ae
night at the Charlotte Chamber of Com- | But the way a Wildcat team finishes the
merce, All members of the team who made Season can never be judged by the initial
the trips were present. game. For instance, last fall the gridiron

Besides the team and Professor Wachter | Sduad beat Elon by the slimmest score in the
there were present Dr. J. M. Douglas, of the history of football between the two schools.
Athletic Association; C. M. S. McIlwaine, Yet what a finish on Thanksgiving Day!
editor of The Davidsonian, and Coaches) The return of the track team from Blacks-
Monk Younger, Tex Tilson and Rawson. burg brings a little tale about one of its

The menu was a little out of the ordinary,| Young stars. It seems that Bluefield, W. Va,,
having broiled tenderloin steak as the piece getting wind of the great work of its son,
de resistance. | Harry Goodykoontz, planned to give him the

Following the banquet there was an in-| Usual reception that heroes are wont to re-
formal discussion as to the best means of Ceive. Looking around over the town they
promoting athletics, maintaining the stand- | could find nothing more appropriate than the
ards of the past, and pushing forward greater ‘high school that he and Feet had attended.
accomplishments in the future.

Professor Wachter said, “The mental However, there was some missing link in
gymnast uses his muscles to serve his brain, their plans, or anyway when Goodykoontz
while the athlete uses his brain to serve his | Teached the old home town the school had al-
muscle. We are coming more and more to ready vanished in smoke and flames and his
realize,” he said, “that scholars need to keep reception was called off.
their muscles in trim and their bodies in RSE,
prime condition, and also, what is equally! One man made a favorable start when
important, athletes must train their brains to Lefty Oden fanned the first batter to face
be truly successful. Davidson is a great, him in a varsity game.
training camp, and every man in the student eae
body should keep himself fit in every way, Anyway Goody sure had a big day as he
and consecrate all that he has and is to Da- took first place in the two-twenty and four-
vidson. Their slogan should be, ‘The best | forty and second in the hundred. Not so bad
that we've got for Davidson.’ ” for the first varsity meet he had entered (the
State Olympic last year was open to fresh).

Miss Marian Daniels a student at ees

Agnes Scott College, and the sister of And eevryone is hoping that the same con-
Frank Daniels, a Freshman, is spend- ditions will prevail this year for the David-
ing the spring holidays at the home of son Yearlings have some material that will
Mrs. J. M. McConnell. go good in that or any other meet. John
Currie in the dashes, McMillan and Nesbit
in the middle distances, and Melton and Mc-
|Geachy in the field events, would make a
very valuable addition.

On These Cold Days---

GOOD, HOT
SANDWICHES

They Satisfy the Appetite

The loss of Red Anderson will strike the
track squad pretty hard. He made his letter
last spring, but was just beginning to hit
| his stride when the mumps hit him.

Calhoun took a first place in the high jump
| jin his first meet, and Joe McConnell got a
W. G SHIELDS | base on balls his first trip to the plate. Last

Ly rm | year Joe slammed out a homer against the
| | State Freshmen. Here’s to one against the

3 “Equipmen

Spalding : Reach

t for Every Sport”

| Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

18 East Trade Street

| State Varsity. bs
|

Although the start on the diamond was
| pretty weak, we are right here to say that
| when the final game is chalked up with the
| Duke nine there will be quite a different class
* ; ; of ball players from what appeared Friday
: Wright & Ditson eee.

Coach Younger has the habit of getting
something out of nothing, of changing gloom
to sunshine. And he does it in such a quiet
and unassuming manner that one doesn’t
know it has been done until “all of a sudden”
a big change has come over his teams.

EESSSSDS SS SSSD SSDS SCE

|
|
| ing Attack of Rawson’s Men

|

| On last Thursday afternoon the Davidson
| Fresh baseball team administered an over-
| whelming defeat to Denver. The final score
| was 11 to 0, and the outcome was never in
|doubt from the start. Although clearly
outplayed in every department of the game,
the Denver boys fought all through the
| game and their courage and pep never fal-
tered. The game was marred by costly
‘fumbles and imperfect plays that would nét
be made later in the season.

This was the first game for the Freshmen,
and they showed up rather well at this stage
of the season. However, if the Fresh expect
to cop the state championship they will have
to do a lot of hard work. The outstanding
feature of the game was the batting of H.
Johnson for Davidson. He got three clean ,
hits out of as many trips to the platter, one |
of them being a home run and another a!
triple. The work of the Davidson pitchers ,
was very good, the three used only giving |
up two hits. Arrowood and Kugler fielded,
the ball nicely. For Denver, Drummond was |
probably the outstanding player of the game. |

Box score follows with summary:

DENVER H POA E}
W. Sigman, cf 020 0;
D. Sigman, 2b OR le 2 0!
Long, c 06 2 0
Howard, ss (it 1|
G. Sigman, 3b 12 0 1
Drummond, p WA Be)
Munday, 1b ---------__- 0701
Proctoneti: saseccssuccce 020 0
(Chororelxoyp), he 3 0100
Mec ice 30 0 224 6 31
DAV. FRESH ABR HPOA E|
Grey reba ee es 8 20 6 25
MCAIAye cb) sansseeueee AWM Wt st il
t 0) 8 2

1000 0|

01000

Johnson, cf 38310 9
Maulden, rf 2100 0!
Edwards, If 1.2 1 0 0,
Wilson, c 01100)
McNeil, c 0041 1]
McColgan, 1b --------__- 3.0 012 1 0|
Crosland, Ib ~---__-______ i @ a i i @)
Oden pre ih) W OH it «|
Ge@athey; p 2-2 Lele EO 1 0|
W. Cathey, p .----_____ 100020

CLAW THE

TERRIERS

WILDCATS
Wofford Terriers Meet Snort Flashes |Freshman Crack Season |!*#": 1° 9 9 9 8
Central Cafeteria {| Track Squad Saturday Oe _ With Smashing Victory Oni Wig ie ae
“On the Square” Wildcats Weakened by Loss of Red Danvaribeyai Pani eer Gir ince ORR

Summary — Two-base hit: Drummond;
three-base hits: Maulden, Johnson; home
run: Johnson; sacrifice hits: Kugler, John-

son; stolen bases: Arrowood, Maulden, Ed-

wards, Kugler; double plays: McColgan
(unassisted), Kugler to McAulay to McCol-
gan; struck out: by Drummond 8, by C.
Cathey 2, by Leight 3; bases on balls: off
Drummond 2, 0:,W. Cathey 1.

That's the story that’s being told over in
East, and for that reason it must be true.

get INGS:

For all insect bites, red
bug, chigger, bee, wasp,
mosquito, etc., apply wet
baking soda or household
ammonia, followed by
cooling applications of —

ICKS

VapoRusB

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

|

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

“*Jam-Up’ >

SERVICE

see
C. M. S. McIlwaine

14 Ga.

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing
shown every Friday in the lobby

of West Dormitory by

Joe Harrison Clothing Company

APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

Wholesale

. When You Need Candy
See Us

26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

