4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 26, 1925

The Davidsonian

. Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._...-.-.....-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..........Business Manager

Editorial Staff

M ing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
-Assistant Managing Editor
----Peanut Parcher Editor
---Associate Editor

W. HW. iy Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW._.. -Associate Fditor
G. D. ROGERS... --Alumni Editor

L. D. WHARTON... --Athletic Editor

Business Staff

H. D. BURKE_...-__. ......---Advertising
J, A. THOMPSO ---Circulation Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER_- . Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C.. McSWAIN ---Subscription Manager

C. R. HUNTER...
J. M. GARRISON...
W. WH. LYNCH.

Souda eaeene Bookkeeper
----.----Service Manager
.._ Correspondent

Reporters’ Club

L. B. GIBBS, President J. M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. J. P. GLADNEY

A. Y. BOWIF, Sec.-Treas. A, H.. HOLLINGSWORTH

C. R. ANDERSON Pr. F. JONES %

. M. APPLEBY J, D, LAWS

1, M. AUSTIN W. H. LYNCH

C, L, BRAGAW R. H. McILWAINE,

V. S. BROYLES GARNETT McMILLAN

D. M. CALHOUN J. E. MOORE

W. T. COVINGTON C. C. MURCHISON

W. T. DAVIS R. B. PARKER

C. M. EDDINGTON FE. K. REGEN

F, T, FRANKLIN J. B. THOMPSON

L. L. DECK W. S. WOODS
ELECTIONS

HE time draws near when the present
Junior class will have its representa-
tives brought forth to fill the places
Which will soon be vacated by the members
cf the class of ’25, Athletics, scholastic ac-
tivities and religious work all call for com-

petent leaders, who are filled with a zeal |

for service and with a determination to fur-
ther the ideals and progress of that particu-
lar activity.

When the men are nominated and the

ri a pray . aoe io Was J y Ss a¢ Sd i > » res 1
votes: cast, it is to be hoped that each mang3W este the most pleasant time of the year in

will give his support to the one whom he
honestly feels is the most competent in
every respect to hold the office. Personal
feelings are to be discarded in favor of the
interest of the college as a whole, politics
should not be allowed to enter into the elec-
tion of a man whose office means much.
The Freshmen, who are not as familiar with
the members of the Junior class as the oth-
ers, should strive to support the man who is
worthy of the plaée and who can fill it bet-
ter than anyone else. They should find out
about a man if they do not know him per-
sonally, and not depend upon mere hearsay
as to whether a man is capable or not.

C.F. S,

The Wildcat five chalked up four victories
on their five game trip through Virginia. It
is the most successful trip a Davidson has-
ketball team has taken in recent years.

poe pace ee
The Wildcats have been gaining momen-

tum but the pace of nine games in twelve
days may be too hard for them. Whatever

happens, Wake Forest is in for two fierce

battles.
SESS p eee
The last three games will determine

whether the Wildcats will rank second or
fourth in the race for State honors.

D
The Board of Trustees holds its annual

meeting here this week. Many important |

decisions will be made at this time as to the
use for which the Duke bequest will be util-
ized. It will be a pleasant change, to turn
from the problem of raising more money for

the needs of the college<and: consid thes

uses to which available funds can be aplied.
The meeting will be one of the most import-
ant in recent years: -
: D—— ;

The “flu” epidemic has hit the campus
again and fifteen boys are in the infirmary.

T
| Apparently, the worst is over, and in a few |
| days the boys will once more be able to re- |
sume college duties.
sees p pera

By winning over Carolina Saturday night,
the wrestling team put themselves in the
front rank in State circles. Both Carolina
and State have fallen before the Red and
Black mat men.

SENSIS py See

Gloves and bats are much in demand these
days, and within another week the diamond
candidates will be taking their first drills
and workouts. “Then, of course, rain will
follow and proceedings will be slowed up for
a couple of weeks. It’s all in the game.

atiuce este] p jae er iad

The first monthly reviews may be one
cause for the “flu” cases at the infirmary.
It is hard to face them once more. .
D
LOOKING AHEAD

The four years that a man spends in col-
lege look long to him before he actually
embarks upon the journey of higher educa-
tion, and at times during his college career,
the goal seems dim in the distance. But any
old graduate who has traversed the road
knows that it is only a lull between youth
and manhood, and the while spent within
the cloistered retreats of learning seem
short indeed.

The average college man looks upon his
time in college as an end within itself and
not as a means towards effecting an end.
Diversions are multitudinous, and studies
seem unimportant when ranked alongside
other activities. Four years appear to the
one entering college, as enough time to suc-
cessfully learn everything worth knowing:
the sad discovery is often made after grad-
uation that only a shallow and superficial
knowledge is gained from careless study ani
| application,

Probably students fall down most in pick-
ing out a definite mark at which to aim.
| And especially is this true in regard to sum-
mer vacations. To many these months of
summer come as a period of utter relaxa-
tion and rest from all mental and physical
effort.- Perhaps it is fortunate that the ma-
jority feel the urge to engage themselves in
some useful occupation that will at one time
prove a source of pleasure and profit. The
three summers that a man spends during his

, college course often determine his future
calling, or may change his outlook upon life. |
To use these summer months wisely and
well is as important as tending to the duties
| of the class room during the winter months.

Very few of us escape the urge to busy
ourselves in some task even though it be.of |
little consequence. Those who desire. to |

sloth are not concerned so much with what
they get out of college studies, as the good
time they manage to have.

With summer only a few short months
away, the problem of deciding what to do in
this tinie comes up again. The question oi
remuneration often overshadows that ° of
good to be derived from the position. It is
hard to choose between a job that offers
high pay but with little incentive in it for
original thought, and a job that has little to |
offer in the way of pay, but with needed ex- |
perience to be gained. But ‘it is in this last
that we can help ourselves the most. A
summer of practical work in the field of |
study in which one has secured theoretical
information, is of untold value. The would-
be preacher can secure more real experience
that will serve him in good stead later on,
from a summer’s work as a preacher, pas:
tor’s assistant, missionary worker or the |
| like, than he can get froma year’s study at’
| # seminary. For the young man who is ¢on-
| templating journalism as a life’s work, a |
| dependable position on a live newspaper fur-

nishes a laboratory in which he can test out

those rules and ideas which he has gotten |
from a study of books. |

And so it is with every profession. And
| those who have not decided upon a vocation
in life, the vacation time comes as a period
of thought in which matters may be weigh
ed, and problems studied: Different jobs
| can be tried until one gives a foretaste of
_ Something that is to the liking of that in-

dividual. A small job picked up may lead to_
a development ni that line until it is decided
| upon for a life’s work.

The time is not far off when another set
| of examinations will be over and a summer |
| vacation ahead. «It will be up to us whether
| we shall return here next fall with a realiza- |
42p. of something worthy accomplished and |
problems faced, or of three month’s of jaded |
pleasure and wasted time.

C.F.S.

|

With the College Editors

Chaff

THE HONOR SYSTEM

One thing that impressed me in the recent dis-
cussion of the Honor System was that no one
doubted its merits, nor Oglethorpe’s need of it,
but based their opposition entirely upon the belief
that it would not succeed here.

They are right and wrong. It will not succeed
so long as it isn’t given a trial; whereas, on the
other hand, should it be tried there is at least
the possibility that it would work acceptably, and
the certainty that it would aid to some extent in
eleminating the abhorrent evil against which it
would be striving. sf

Also, there is no single student in school who
is so unprincipled as not to deplore the state of
affairs as they now exist. Even those who speak
most bitterly against the proposed system» were
equally earnest in their denunciation of the prac-
tice which has caused its need. They spoke, as
they said, and believed, as much in the- interest
of their school as those who championed the cause
of the system, but there is one point in connection
with their stand that I do not believe they have
considered, In talking against the Honor System
they can by no manner of twisted reasoning, con-
vince even themselves that they are helping to
eliminate the evil, whereas, if the Honor System
should be installed even if it worked with grave
imperfection, it would at least be a contending
foree—something actively and continuously fight-
ing against it.

Whether it passes or not, there is sure to be a
large number of students voting against it. In
doing so, they will be voting dutifully or selfishly,
they will be actuated cither by a clear, unbiased
conception of what is best for the college and
students or by the selfish, unmanly desire co
avoid the responsibility of duty, or by the still
less admirable fear of feeling ts teeth.

For those with wisdom, courage and honor
enough to vote for what is right, rather than
casy and pleasant, T have a profound admiration.

And such is my confidence in the natural good
character of Oglethorpe’s students, that I believe
that if they do give expression to their better
impulse the movement will sueceed—E, M.¢ in
The Petrel.
STUDY

Despite the fact that most people go to college

ostensibly for the purpose of laying the founda-

tion for an education, they yet decry that motive in
the repugnance with which they view its essence
—study. This is, indeed, most natural, for few
things can equal the dullness of study untouched
by other features. .But just there lies the funda-

| mental error from which few emerge duringtheir

college days or even‘later. Everything connected
with a college course—whether it be language,
mathematics, history, literature, science, law, or
what not—is automatically study, pure study, pure

| study with no tinge of natural interest, and is

immediately relegated to the category
compulsory and therefore undesirable.
As long as this traditional attitude, almost uni-
versal, grips the student, his college course is de-
feated. In the first place, a utilitarian motive,
scarcely connected with
diploma, should+serve to tear the delusion from
one’s eyes. Even from a_ practical viewpoint,
knowledge within reasonable limits seldom goes
long uncalled for. A lawyer whose son now at-
tends the University emphatically declares that
one of his profession must know something from
every branch of knowledge. Scarcely a case
comes to him but necessitates information upon
a different matter. The lawyer is but examplary.

The doctor, the engineer, and others are equally
concerned,

of the

But it is not necessary to go so far as the future
for an animation to know and—what is infinitely
more vital to enjoy! One is a human being al-
Ways, moving passively and actively through life,
as much while one is in college as before and af-
ter; and with what is knowledge concerned if not
with life! Literature is but a written account of
life. That part called History deals specifically
with those who have actually lived and with what
they did. Poetry, fiction, dramas for the most

| part give their personages no names of actual

existence nor their settings authenticity of actual
occurange, but that is far from signifying that
they cannot be attached to human life throughout
all the ages. One cannot tell when he opens a
book but that he may find himself mirrored there.

Of actual interest is science, for it deals with
the physical elements that compose and make life
possible, and the law of cause and effect. To the
imaginative, it offers a fertile field, for science
must arrive at its truths or convictions through

| a beginning of imagination, often with a fallacy.

Metaphysics, the higher science, which goes
beyond and muses upon what science takes for
granted in building, its laws, offers a method of
training to develsg an acute and logical miad.
The fact that it can never arrive at a certain

| ultimate by no means detracts from its value here.

The obvious secret ofall is that each part con-
tributes to the art of living. Whatever else we

|
|

Yes, John, I’ve made my semi-annual trips for | do not know, we may at least take for granted
26 years straight now and the dear old alma | that we are living, and it behooves us to make

mater hasn’t changed at bit—P. F, J. that life as joyfully full ad is consistent with its

the formality of the |

LAY OF A HEAVY MAN

Up from his bathrobed lair sprang he,
Remaining flower of chivalry.

“By my tobacco quid,” quoth he,

This doggone match depends on me.”

“Sir Harry, hold these Chesterfields, us

Lest they should bend when yon man yields
To my great skill on this fair field.”

And forthwith to the contest wheeled.

Glaring hard at the referee

He sez: “Don't try to two time me,
For Sammy Summers here you see,
Toughest man in old Georgee.”

The midman jumps from off the field,
And, lo, the battling warriors wield
Their awful mitts to break the shield;
sut neither makes the other yield.

Then fair Sammy grabs his man,
As does a fish the pelican.

Gobbles him up within his hands,
And cries: “The battle has began.”

The heroe’s mighty grip now shuts

All the wind from the matman’s guts.
And as the other edgeward cuts.

Back with his prey our Sammy struts.

Egads, what a bloody scrap ensues!

The cheerers quake in their very shoes.
Up, up! To flee from Sammy’s abuse, -
But poor crushed victim can't get loose.

For seconds—yea, and minutes too,
The mat is dusted by these two.
Sam tries half Nelson’s for to do,
But, or—we leave the rest to you.

Putfing and huffing, our worthy pair,
Get to gasping now for air.

And a weeping Freshman on his chair,
Almost wants to really swear,

But hark ye all—my tale is spun;

mm course our doughty hero won,

Where is the man—please bring us one—
That can our wrestlin’ Sammy stun?

OUR WEEKLY LINE

Which reminds us—“In the spring a young
man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.”
We just wished to remind you, dear youths.
Don't, we beseech you, let a perfectly good old-
fashioned custom go to waste and obliviate it-
self the desert air. Hang’ the moderns—
hurrah for the old timers! So say we. Let’s go!
The staff of the mail dispensary has only a Ilmited
supply of stamps on hand, Get yours now. Don’t
wait! It's to your own interest to write imme-
diately. And remember: “A line a day keeps
Mary gay.” Then too: “If spring is come, is sum-
far behind?” Certainly not. So, old top-
“Keep the home fire yearning” till her boy
comes home.

upon

mer
per:

Oh Alfred! Tscen the funniest thing this after-

noon, Yaus. No. You can’t guess in a million
years. It was so funny and I was so shocked. I

was at Davidson College and the whole big foot-
ball team come in smoking cigarettes. And, oh,
who would uv thought it! I’m so mortified! John
William Crinkley, poor boy, staggered across the
old campus smoking a nasty vile cigarette. Moral:
You never can tell.

Presbyterian and progress

Both begin with “P.”

But uncle we'll just have to ‘fess
They seem to disagree.

(At Davidson.)

The Seniors have only a little longer on the ;
hill. Commencement, which four years ago was
the goal of our college life looms on the horizon.

As we look back over the four years which we
have spent here together we realize what a great
thing college is and how much it means to us.
The associations, the work, the play, all inter-
mingled into four years of wonderful pleasure
and richness.

There may be many things which we will re-
gret—God pity the man who has no regrets—but
despite our mistakes and faults, our years to-
gether, we feel helpless, it is true, but ready to go
out into the world, made better and stronger by
our four years at Davidson. And on through life
the friendships made in college will continue to
be the brightest spots in life—a life which we
hetieve has great things in store for us.

healthy subsistencé. The courses that the stu-
dent labels as study and treats as such often con-
tain much that would delight him if only he ap-
proached them in an attitude of natural curiosity.
—The Crimson-White (University of Alabama).

