BLUE RIDGE ENTER
CONFERENCE H E EIONS
FORABETTER DAVIDSON  }  ——
Vol. XII i: 7 oa. aa oe Now

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. MAY 14, 1925

Newly Elected Student
Officers Take Oath of
Office Friday Morning

Hendrix Briefly Address Students
SAPPENFIELD SPEAKS
New Student Councilmen Take Over

Control of Government Follow-
ing Installation

The Student Council and Student Body |
officers for 1925-26 were installed at a spe- |
cial meeting of the student body, held after |
chapel Friday morning. J. P. Hendrix, re- |
tiring president, requested the members |
elected to the Student Council for next year |
to take seats on the platform. He then read
the oath of office, prescribed by the constitu-
tion. The student councilmen, with risht
hands raised, repeated the oath after him.

After the Student Council had been sworn
in, Hendrix addressed the students ina few
well worded sentences. He talked 6f the
thing, which he said made Davidson stand
out in the collegiate world, its Honor Sys-|
tem. Other colleges are taking notice of
our marked success with our system of seli-|
government and are trying to learn mere
about it, he stated. He pictured the David-
son student’s priceless heritage in his col-
lege and its traditions and expressed his feel-
ing of sadness in leaving the institution for
the last time as a student.

A great volume of applause from the stu-
dents at the end of his talk showed their
esteem for this man, and their approval of
his words,

A great burst of applause grected N. E,
Sappenfield, the new president, as he came
into office. In his short talk he stressed the
dependence of the officers on the co- opera-
tion of the studnts. He pointed out ne
merits of the student government, and i
challenge to every man to uphold the con-
stitution.
dent body the best that the new officers were
capable of in performing their duties and in
Promoting the interests of Davidson.

The aie are the officers for next |
year: . E. Sappenfield, president; J. F.|
Pinkney al W. T. Covington, Jr., vice- pres-

(Continued on page 8)

State Title in Doubles |
Goes to Wildcat Netmen

Price and McCutchen Defeat Caro-
lina Team in State Championship |
Match

|

Harry Price and Lathan McCutchen, rep-|
resenting Davidson in the state tennis tourna-
ment, last week won the
championship in doubles. Price and Mc-
Cutchen, Davidson, defeated Solomon and
Fuller, Carolina, in one of the hardest fought |

intercollegiate |

and most exciting matches ever seen at |
Chapel Hill,
The final score was, 4-6; 6- -4; “11-9; 6-4. |

As shown by the score, the teams were nearly
evently matched and Practically every game}
was deuced over and over. ‘Although the
team work of both teams was excellent. the |
Davidson players were a bit steadier in their
play, and this, coupled with McCutchen’s ter-|
rific service and hard overhead drives were
too much for the Carolina boys. |

In the singles Davidson was not so for-|
tunate. Monday the preliminaries were play- |
ed off and all four of Davidson’s representa: |
tives came through. On Tuesday*McCutchen
and Beall were defeated by Whisnant and
Burns, Carolina. Tom Staley, Davidson, was |
defeated by Solomon, Carolina, in the semi-
finals. The thrill of the afternoon came |
when Whitaker, of Carolina, who, after los- |
ing his first set to Price, Davidson, twice |
singles champion of the state, came back
and won his next two sets 6-2, 6-2. Price
played a beautiful game, but was unable .to

(Continued on page 7)

| Davidson.

|ment will be provided for the

In closing he pledged to the stu-|’

| lecturer.

Frosh to Perform
in Annual Day of |
Fun Before Sophs

Saturday, the 16th, Soph day!
Fear and trepidation! These

Cap day!
words are

| synonymous for those ill-fated beings who

have had the honor of donning, and now
doffing, the little red and black headgears |
so familiar to everyone on the campus,

Soph day is a time-honored tradition at
On that day the Freshman has |
all eyes focused on him, A Soph has but to|
speak and a trembling Freshman does his |
bidding, humble servants of that great and |

all-powerful group of he-men known at
large as Sophomores. |
Saturday, the 16th, is the day set aside |

for this ceremony. Ordinarily Soph day is)
held earlier in the year, but this year it has |
been decided to combine Soph day and Cap |
day. Then, on this eventful occasion, not |
only do the Freshies get rid of their caps but
undergo strenuous treatment at the hands of |
their “elder brothers.” |

Various regulations have been drawn up
and will be fully explained to the ’28’ers be- |
fore the sixteenth dawns. Special entertain- |
“wearers of |
the cap” on Saturday afternoon,

Saturday night, at the gym, during the |
show, there will be many opportunities for |
the Freshmen to shine, At this time the up-
perclassmen will sit in judgment and the ;
best performance put on by any group of ;
Freshmen will be awarded special prizes, ac-
cording to their individual merits\perhaps |
they will be allowed to come first in those |
mysterious rites which have to be gone |
through with by the fireside on the athletic |
field after the show. At this time the ob- |
noxious caps will be consigned to the fiery |
elements for eternity.

» Seniors Are Interested
in. Graduation Schedule

Plans Are Completed for Best Com- |
mencement in Many Years

Tomorrow being the last day of classes for

| Seniors, all interest ip becoming centered on |

Commencement, whith is little more than two
weeks off. The Senior class has put forth
every effort to make the 89th Commencement
}of Davidson College one which will stand

| out in the minds of those present for years

tocome. The invitations were received from
ithe printers and: distributed last week, and
| with them was released a commencement pro-
gram which promises to be unusually inter-
esting and impressive.

The Commencement exercises will begin
on Sunday morning, May 31, at 11 o'clock,

when Rev. J. G. McAllister, D.D., will
preach the baccalaureate sermon. Dr. Mc-
| Allister is now the professor of Bible and

Theology at the Louisville Theological Semi-
nary. He received his education at Hamp-
den-Sidney College and Union Theological
| Seminary, and since his graduation he has
served both of these institutions, the former
as president, and the latter
“Who's Who" speaks of
| known theologian,

as a professor,
him a well-
educator and conference

as

Rey. Neal Anderson, D.D., will deliver the
anmial sermon before the Y. M. C. A., Sun- |
day night at 8:00 o'clock. Dr. Anderson is

pastor of the Independent Presbyterian
| Church of Savannah, Ga.
On Monday afternoon, June 1, Miss,

Goudyloch Erwin, the class mascot, will en-
tertain the Senior class at a lawn party. Fol-
lowing this, at 5:30, the class exercises will
take place. At this time the class day vale-
dictorian, D. B. Wharton; the salutatorian, |
A. F. Simpson; and the class orator, A. M.| |
Martin, will deliver their respective ad-|
dresses. W. W. Purdy, the class poet, will |
give the class poem, and the class gift will
also be presented at this time.
At 8:00 p. m. the Dramatic club will pre- |
(Continued on page 6)

BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE

The Robert E. Lee Hall, at Blue Ridge,
where the meetings of the Annual Student
| Conference will be held from June 16-25.
| The hall, and its surrounding grounds form
a spot of picturesque beauty.

Davidson 1 Will Send Men
to Blue Ridge Conclave

Student Gahbbrence
Mountains to be Held in June

The Y. M. C. A. Conference for College
Men will be held at Blue Ridge, June 16-25, |
this year, when 500 college men, representa- |
tive leaders the Southern colleges and
| universities, are expected to gather for
‘eight-day conclave.

The speakers that have been secured for |
the conference this year include
religious, political and economic thought of
the times.

Dr. John R, Mott has for 10 years been
General Secretary of the North American
Y. M. C. A,, and is now Seeretary of the
National Council. He has visited in a num-
ber of foreign countries, and has come in in-
timate contact with students of the world.
He was one of the outstanding speakers at
the International Volunteer Conference in
Indianapolis in 1923.
living message to
Ridge.

Dr. Robert FE.

(Continued on page 8)

of

leaders in

the delegates at Blue

Speer, of New York, is an

DAVIDSONIAN ENDS TEN
YEARS OF SERVICE

With this, the last issue of the year
for The Davidsonian, the 10
years of faithful service comes as a
mile-stone along the road to success.
The paper was founded by the class of
1915, and it has lived up to its repu-
tation as being the livest wire on the
hill,

Starting a four-column
sheet of four pages, the paper has
grown in size and statue, along with
the growth in news and cditorial com-
ment. It has ever kept up with its
policy of being for the best interest of
the college and the student body.

end of

as small,

The recognition of being for two
years the best college newspaper in
the state has been extremely helpful
to the editors and those who:have had
the interest of the paper at heart. It
will be the policy of the present staff
to keep The Davidsonian on the same
high plane that it has always been, and
make it known as the very best paper
in the South.

in Carolina |

an}

Dr. Mott will bring a |

‘Dramatic Club to
| Promote Interest

in Amateur Plays

Frederick Shilton eae was elected president of |
the Davidson Dramatic Club the
year at a meeting held in Shearer Chapel last
Friday morning, Linton Deck
| as business manager, this being the first time
that the organization has had a supervisor
, of the financial department. Pigey Martin
lis the retiring president,
| Plans are being made for the most. suc-
cessful year in 1925-26 that the organization
!has ever had.
have evidenced a lively interest in the pro-
duction and writing of plays this year, and
it is believed that an even larger number will

for next

fall. Prof. Edward J. Erwin has rendered
efficient service as director of the Dramatic
club this year, and it has been due to his

achieved a measure of success,

Five original plays have
staged this year, and two more will be pre-
sented during Commencement week, One
of the plays, “On With the Show,” was pre-
sented at a private performance — several
| weeks ago, but it will be presented again
during Commencement. Some 30 or more
| men have taken part in the various produc-
| tions put on this year, exclusive of several
;young ladies of the town who have kindly
_ | given their talent to the production of the
| plays.

It is planned to make the membership in
the club more exclusive next year; that
to require a certain amount of work before
|election to the organization. Also, it
| planned to have some sort of recognition in

one-act

1s,

Is

\ the sha

(Continued on page 6)

‘Currie Wins New Praise

at Big Greensboro Méet

| Davidson Star Pauel) World Record
for Hundred Yard Dash in
Greensboro

John Currie, all-time premier Davidson

dash man, continued his course toward track |

fame Saturday afternoon when he pli tceu|
second in the hundred and two-twenty yi urd |
dashes at Greensboro as Jack Scholtz broke |
the world’s record in the former event. Run-
ning just behind the Olympic champion,
Scholtz, as he lowered the world’s record for
the hundred to 9 d¢2 seconds and as he struck }
off the furlong in 21 flat, Currie showed that

and varsity athletes,
the United States and the
The races were at an invitation track

best runners of
world,
meet.

Currie started off his track carer at Da-

vidson by winning first place in the hundred, |

220 and 440 dashes, as the Davidson

at the track meet here in March. Later on

John won first in the hundred and 220 at |

Chapel Hill over all the freshman athletes
of the North Carolina college and universi-
ties.

His biggest. step into fame came at the
varsity meet with Clemson: College,
Richardson Field when Currie,. running un-
| officially, came out ahead of all the Davidson

on

and Clemson dash men with a speed of. 9 9-10 |

| seconds, later on placing second in the 220
| dash,
At Greensboro Currie was running on a
hard clay track, which Scholtz said was the |
| best for speed he had ever encountered in
| his track experiences.

-

| The Freshman tennis team is going well,
| and just at this time is on a state jaunt.
Price, Trotter, Staley anl Beall all graduate
this year, and somebody is goin to take their
places. That means that somebody is going
to practice all the time this summer and try
| to make that team next year.

was elected |

A large number of students |

{answer the first call of the footlights next |

expert direction that the organization has |

|
been |

pe of a pin of some kind, to be worn |

he was not only in the class with freshman |
but in the class of the}

Fresh |
won over all the North Caralina high schools |

|Davidson Bows to Duke
_ After Thrilling Rally

in the Seventh Inning

Wildcats Are Nosed Out After
Thirteen Innigs of, Play

LAST GAME OF YEAR

‘Duke Gets Off to Eerly Lead But
Davidson Stages Great
Come-Back

In a thrilling battle at Monroe last Satur-
day afternoon, the Wildcats closed their 1925
| baseball season by losing to the Duke Blue

Devils by the score 9-8. The game was fea-
}tured throughout by pretty work both
teams,

Duke started the scoring in the first in-
ning, running up a four-run lead, which the
Wildcats were unable to overcome until the
seventh inning. Davidson scored first in the
second. With the bases full and one out
Davis was hit by a batted ball and Glenit
| was caught off second so that only one mark-
}ed was run up, The Wildcats scored again
in the fourth by free passes and a_ wild
throw; and finally tied the score in the
seventh by sending two men across the plate.

In the twelfth each team scored again,
Duke by a three-base clout, followed by an
infield out; and Davidson by Alford's single
and a double by Covington,

The winning run was made in the first of
the thirteenth when with two out,
singled to left field and made third when
Wrenn tried to catch him stealing second
and “pegged” wild. He scored when Saunders
singled to right.

The feature of the game was s.Gloni s beau-
tiful catch of Thompson's hit in the eighth,

[Wat Johnsgn-en third Thompson hit what
\ cin one over Glenn's

on

Green

appeared 0 be
head but Avitta nhighty leap this doughty
warrior LO RaN. down with a one-hand
stab that brought the stands to their feet in
| applause.

Several double plays were made by each
team which cut somewhat.

down the score

} In every instance two bases were occupied.
| Laird, hero of Friday's eleven-inning battle
|} with Wake Forest, was sent in in the seventh
lto’save the game and by good headwork when
| (Continued on page 8)

| ———

Striking Message Brought
'toStudents s by Mrs. Robson

|Mrs. Robson Thrills “Audience With
| Beautiful Mother’s Day Address

Mrs. A. 3B: aia who has been in
| charge of the Davidson infirmary for nearly
a score of years and a mother to every Da-
vidson man, spoke at vespers last) Sunday

jafternoon, Mrs. Robson spoke on the theme
}of Mothers, the oceasion being Mother's
Day.

The speaker began by telling to
“An angel came down
from heaven,” “and when ready to
return, wished’ to take a true remembrance of
its trip. A beautiful bouquet first met his
eye, and thinking this the beautiful
thing he could carry back, he plucked them.
| Next he saw a child, in its sweet simplicity
playing. Nothing could be more ‘beautiful
| than this, the angel thought. But then he
} saw a mother’s love, gushing over the child
/in a never-ceasing stream. So the angel
| took all three and started back to heaven.
But when he had reached there, the flowers
had wilted, the child’s happy smile had
faded, but the mother’s love was as strong
and as gure2s xen Jt was the only thing
that could endure both in heaven and earth.

“Mother's spirit never fails. She counts
sacrifice a privilege. She expects and knows
her son to be the very best in the world.
Every day is Mother’s Day. Even now we
feel the invisible presence of the hundreds
of mothers whose sons are present here.
Their prayers are descending in all these

(Continued on page 6)

a story
\ illustrate her theme.
she said,

most

