EDAVI

FOR A BETTER

TH

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1925

DAVIDSON

No.1 17

State Y.M. C. A. Worker
Speaks of Workability
of Christian Religion

INTENSELY GI GRIPPING .

Brings Home Practical Side of Reli- |
gion to Students—Introduced
by Mr. Williams

For vesper services last Sabbath evening
the "Y"
speaker one of the best known workers in the
state Y, C. Av work. Mr. J. Wilson
Smith, of Charlotte,
sion of the workability of the Christian re-
ligion in individual lives. Mr. Smith is the
state “Y" secretary and prominent in Y. M.
C. A. activities among the men and young
men of this entire section,

Mr, Williams in introducing the speaker |
recited an anecdote which involved the con- |

versation between two men who were once |

looking upon Niagara falls. One of
men expressed his belief that the falls rep-
resented the greatest source «
whole country. His companion, disagreeing,
replied: “No, it isn't; manhood is the great-
est power in this or any nation.” Mr, Wil-
liams pointed out that Mr. Smith has been
and is devoting his time and ability to the
building up of a strong Christian manhood
in the South.

power in the

Taking as an antithetical basis or theme
for his talk an article by Rupert Hughes
appearing in a recent issue of a largely cir-
culated magazine, Mr. Smith gave his own
reasons for disapproving of that article.
Hughes’ article was written to show wherein
the Christian religion has
the world’s problems.

failed to solve

Mr. Smith stated that, since he. wasn't a
theologian he would not attempt to refute |
Hughes’ assertions, but from his own Chris-
tian experiences would offer his method of |
solving the problem,

“Christianity is the only solid, substantial, |
and satisfying way of solving our problems,” | F

he declared. “Christianity alone can give us |
satisfaction when we are in such a mood as
was Robert Burns «when
Doon,’ ”

“Harry Lauder is not a great entertainer
in the true sense of the word.
an exceptional voice. But his heart is big,”
continued the speaker. And then he related |
how Lauder was too weak of heart and |
lacking in will power to notify his wife when |
their son was killed in France.

he

Nor has he

his heavy sorrow in a saloon, but on the way
(Continued on page 8)

Volunteer Conference

At Carolina Next Week

Record-Breaking Att Attendance is Ex-
pected at the Fourteenth Annual
Conclave

From all reports the fourteenth annual | decision of the judges in a literary contest |

conference of the North Carolina Volunteer

Union, to be held at Chapel Hill, February |

20, 21 and 22, will be one of the best in the
history of the organization. It commences
Friday evening and lasts through Sunday
evening. The conference was invited
Chapel Hill by the University “Y” and they
are putting forth every effort to make the
meeting a marked success.

get-together” and on account of the interest-
ing program that has been arranged, a rec-
ord-breaking conference in every respect is
expected.

The spiritual side will be stressed at the
conference more than anything else, conse-
cration and prayer being the keynotes. In
order to accomplish most and obtain the
-best reswts. the state officers are anxious to
have a creditable delegation from. each col-
lege. Each institution is allowed several
delegates. The local band, under the lead-

(Continued om page 6)

‘Next Year to See

, next

meeting committee secured as the |

gave a concise descus- |

|

Change in Faculty —

Davidson and the Durham

Elks Split Pair of Games

Says the Catalogue pea and Black Cagers Drop Game

|
The 1925-26 Davidse College Catalogue, |
| which is now in the process of printing, ate
nounces several changes in the faculty
Dr.
back but will pursue studies in psychology in |
Europe. After his leave of absence he ex- |
pects to again take up his former work here.
Tt has not been announced who will fill the
chair of psychology and education left vacant
by Dr. Hood.

Prof. W. N. Mebane, who has been as-
sistant professor in Physies for the last two
years, will be assistant in Mathematics next
}year. He will take the place of Prof. C.
| Brown, who will do post-graduate work at

|
for |
year,

K,

| the University of North Carolina,

The great | the Pandeinic and the Philanthropic.
comedian was about to seek a haven from! Me

to.

As this is the |
only time of the year the volunteers have a|

Prof. L. M. Currie will return this fall as |
assistant in Physics. He formerly held this |
position here, but for the last two years has

these j been studying at Cornell University, where he pes

will receive his Ph.D, degree this spring.
| Mr. J. H. Davis, who was instructor
| Biology last year and who is now
post-graduaté work in science at the
versity of Chicago, will again be assistant to |
| Dr. Porter. é

One new professor will be Added to the
faculty. Mr. J. C. Bailey, who is now super-
jintendent of the Davidson High Sehools, will
be assistant to Dr. M. E. Sentelle gin Bible,
and to Dr. C. R. Harding in Greek. Mr.

(Continued on page 6)

in|
taking
Uni- |

|
|

Societies to Alter Old
System of Prize Awards

[eet Efforts of I of Forensic Coun-
cil New Plan for Awarding
| Medals Instituted

oy

Some time ago it was announced by the |
orensic Council that a new system. of |
| awarding prizes and medals in the literary
| socicties had been formulated by that body |

Wrote “Bonie! and submitted to the societies for their ap- |

| proval. It felt that something was

needed to stimulate interest in the contests

| staged by the literary societies cach year, and
|to attach more value to a prize won in such |
a contest.

Was

This new system has been approved by
three of the four societies—the Eumenean, |
The
trophilian society is to act “on it at its
|next meeting. It is believed by many that
they, too, will accept the proposed change.

The changes proposed are for the purpose
lee attaching more value to the prizes to be
|competed for, and thereby stimulating more
interest. Instead of competing only against
the members of his own society, a member
[aust match his ability against that of men
|from the other three societies as well. This
‘will give him more competition and thereby
|make his achievement greater in winning. |
| Thus it will mean more for a man to win the

than heretofore.

The Fresh-Soph declamation contest will
‘be abolished and only Freshmen will compete |
|for a declamation medal to be given to the
best declaimer in the Freshman class.

In the Fresh-Soph and Junjor-Senior de-
| bates, only one medal will be given. This
| will go to the best speaker in the finals, re-
gardless of his team. _To win this medal a
man.must not only be a good speaker, but
must be able to work well with others.

The Junior orator’s medal will be given
as in the past, six contestants being chosen
in a general contest, and the winner of the
medal being selected from this number when
the finals are held at Junior Speaking.

Writing is considered just as much a part
of literary work as speaking, and so an Es-
sayist’s medal will also be, awarded. _The
award .is to. he made by“a comifittee com-
posed of members of the faculty. This is a
new feature, such an award having been

(Continued on page 8) :

{would be hard to excel,
time

| maintaining
‘throughout the game.

| minutes.
| customary spurts,

i best

| the visitors L.
| game.

in Durham by 49-33
ALL PERFORM WELL

Frazer Hood will not be | Team Comes Back Strong | in Friday

Night Game With 44-33 Score

Showing an attack, the strength of which
the Davidson Wild-
Durham Elks ina
February 6, At no
Davidson
lead) and

margin

overwhelmed the
fast contest on Friday,
during the
danger of defeat,
at

cats

contest was in
taking an carly

least a 10-point

The game was fast and furious and at no

time did the interest of the spectators lag. |

At times fouls marred the play but) these
were overlooked as the

lively. ‘
When the first half was over the score
stood 20 to 10 in the faver of Davidson.

The second half started with a rush and for
a time promised to be a bit closer as both
teams were scoring equally for the first five
Then Davids6n, of her
started a drive which net-
ted 14 points before Durham could
score, and from this time on there was little
doubt as to the final outcome,

For Davidson, Staley played one
games. Anderson the same dee |
pendable player, while Beall and Me¢ ‘onnell |
never faltered. Boggs’ game would
been hard to have been improved upon,

with one

was
have

Mangum played the steadiest
The line-up was as follows:
Davidson (44) Position. Durham Elks (23)
DAI eo ce cone ee on STATI ia (a)
Right forward

action beeame more |

again |

his |

lor |

Wildcat Matmen Win i

Match With State But
Nearing Holidays Drop One to the Navy

The plans of the conimittee which is work: | Belepeene Throws His Man at State
jing on “Junior Speaking.” are beginning to] to Help Davidson Win 11-16
itake on a more definite All members BE ey
are working hard, and their aim is to make NAVY IS HARD FOE
this “Speaking” the Ba
‘Powerful Middie 1 Team Wins Every

Match from Wildcats Who Fight

Hard

\Juniors Becoming |
Enthused Over the |

. |
form,

Hest yet.
The program, as outlined, is about as fol
On Thursday night there will be
picture, The Junior
speak on Friday morning.
will ‘be
Glee Club has agreed to give
{their performances
inter-class track meet
Saturday and
baseball Saturday
night is the time
feature,

lows: a
will
Friday afternoon

The

moving orators
The Davidson wrestling squad. split even
of omits Eastern trip as the Wildeats won 11 to
An 6 from North Carolina State and lost on Sat-
ofgurday night,
of Naval Academy team by

victory over the

taken up by a baseball game.

another
on night,
the
another
afternoon,

the

Friday
will be two days later, to the powerful
The
Techmen marked the open-
ing of Davidson's inter-collegiate season on
the mat, though having two matches

| previously from the Coneord “Y" team,

event

. : yy) *¢\9%e?
morning, game a 27-0 score,
Saturday

exclusive Junior

on
for
won
The main event, of course,
jnight performance. As yet,
ment has been made as to the
entertainment,

is the Saturday
No announce
nature of the
a unique

Thursday night the Wildeat grapplers won
out in the Frank Thompson Gymnasium in
Raleigh with Frierson throwing his man by

but it is to be one,

and is occupying the attention of every mem- # fall, Bil Cox and Captain Patterson win-
her of the committee. The other part of the Ming on time and two matches drawing,
program has been definitely decided upon, St#tte won the other two events.

jand this event will claim their almost un- The summary follows :

divided attention from now
persons are being consulted, and the work is
progressing favorably,

One of the the week will he |
the magazine, which will appear with an
Bach

on, Capable) 117) pounds—Frierson (Davidson) threw
Crawford (State) in six minutes.

129 pounds—Sherman (State) won on time
Barrington (Davidson).

139 pounds—Bill Cox (Davidson) won on
time over Thomas (State) ).

149) pounds—Captain Hicks

features of over

abundance of news, fiction and jokes.

(Continued on page 8) (State) and

| L. P. Cox (Davidson) drew.

159 pounds—Captain Patterson (David-
| . : son) won over Harrill (State) on time,
Saturday Night Will Be | Light heavyweight—Nicholson (State)

and Vanee (Davidson) drew,
Heavy weight—Lambe (State) won from
Captain Patterson (Davidson) on time,

Gala Time for Students

| Wrestling Match, Ba Basketball Game

Staley (19) cose se ss ae re oes ROG andbhres Movie All Come Two nights later the Wildcats proved to be
Left forward | To ether no match for the experienced Navy crew,

ANUGtsOn (1G) co oa o= eeeee =e NU WON wee = who waded through them for three falls and

Center Saturday night promises to be one of the Meith WUE ;

McConnell (2) Seem eT eee I. Mangum (13) | gala oceasions of the new year as the Wild. | . rhe oe HESI the Pieaane ue
Right guard y jcats stage two athletic meets and the picture | NGA th real fight, according to speciitl

BorrsxGG) (2) ener cnc eo con 1); Mangum | how promoters give a free show to com- newspaper dispatches, Fighting through the
Left guard {plete the round of happiness, Meeting the | regular 10-minute period Heli y eA CTY,
Sugstitutions—For Davidson: Beall (8) | Virginia Tech grapplers in. the first home the Frierson (Davidson) and Slaven CNavy)

for Laird;
McConnell;

Huie for Anderson; Simpson for

Faucette Beall; Beall
Faucette; Hudgins for Huie; McConnell
for Huie; MeConnell for Simpson, For
Durham Elks: Lougee (5) for
Boling for Perry; Perry for Boling ; Boling
for Starling. Sipley (Bueknell).

for

Refer

On Tuesday night of last week the Wild-
cats met the Durham Elk team, and
caught the little end of a 49 to 33° score.
The whole Elk team was in fine form,
shot goals from all angles. They were in-
vincible, but the Wildcats stayed with them
to the final whistle, and fought as only a

fast

Wildcat team knows how to fight. At the |
(Continued on page 5)
BASEBALL PRACTICE
STARTS IN RAIN
With intermittent showers of rain
falling all Monday afternoon, the

pitchers and catchers of the school an-
swered the call of Coach Younger for
the first practice the
“Dutch” Hengeveld, former Davidson
athlete and coach, will have charge of
the few weeks of extra work that the
Davidson coaches are planning to run
the batteries through. Coach Henge-
veld played several summers with the
Little Rock, Ark., baseba!l club of the
Southern League. He has coached
many Davidson teams to success.

With Flake Laird out with the
basketball team, only Hampton from
last year’s Fresh nine and Oden and
Kimbrough are out for the pitcher’s
position. Wick. Black. along. with
Frank Alford, are at the receiving
end.

of season,

for |

Mangum; |

and

match was extended to two extra periods,

collegiate meet of the season, preceded by | i par ‘
| Covel Younger’s basketball Raat with the Slaven finally winning out with only 20 sec-
| ae ; ; s’ advantage.
{Belmont Abbey team, and then Rupert onds udvantag :
lHughes® tatest novell Glaxeuse Me,” dsethe Kirst one man and then the other was on

tile (oft i THEnt : et ste. top. It was a close shave and only the
0 : . af 1) . eat: °

After winniig from the Carolina Techmen | hairbreadth decision brought defeat to the
nati fi a a Wildcat.
and. losing in a disastrous match with the ;

a The other matches were rather one-sided

great Naval Academy the Wildeats
returned under Captain Patterson's leader-
ship for a week of hard training in prepara-
tion for Saturday's meet.

The V. P. 1. team, always strong, is. un-
usuatly powerful this year, starting off Sat-)
urday week with a walloping victory over the

Cavaliers from the University Virginia,
| 18-3. The Virginia team was able to will

| only one match frem Tech and that by a de-
|

team, , ‘ ;
with the Navy always on the big end of the

(Continued on page 5)

Sonkormores Plan Gala
Event for for Queen City

of

Plans indicate Suicccastal Banquet

9 A
jcision in the unlimited class. The Gobblers this Year—Branch is Toast-
| took three matches by falls and one by time master
| decision, ; = : :
Captain Rouzie of the 135-pound class is The attention of the entire Sophomore

class is now béing centered on arrangements
for the annual class banquet... Plans began

}one of the best wrestlers in the Old Do-
}minion and his match promises to be a real

fight. to take a definite form when President Bill
| Coach Younger will turn his Wildcats | Covington called a meeting of the class Mon-
loost upon the Belmont Abbey basketball day morning and the real steps decided on

quint in an effort to prevent the Davidson to be taken in arranging for this important
boys from going stale before the hard grind | event. The meeting was filled with enthusi-
that will face them during the last 11 days | @sm and the work was carried through with
of February . | a rush,

The game will mark the beginning of the | When the question arose as to when the
night’s entertainment. Reports are that | banquet would be held, there was much dis-
Marvin Ritch will bring over a strong ag- | cussion, It was finally decided that the sec-
gregation to fight the Wildcats, and a good ond week in March would best suit the class
game will no doubt come off. |and as it is too far off to set a definite date,

Manager Little john, in announcing that | it was. moved and carried that the setting of
the show Saturday night would be given| the exact date be left in the hands of the
“gratis” to the student body, said that he| committee to be appointed by the president
highly recommended it to those who wanted | tO arrange for the banquet.
to experience a thrilling: «ime %s ‘the cfesiig {| A real discussion.arose upon the. question
feature of. the week’s work. of deciding for the place of the banquet.

With Conrad Nagal, Norman Shearer, | After some discussion it was found that the
Renee Adoree, and John Boles playing to-| majority were determined that this event

(Continued on page 2) (Continued on page 8)

