THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON

A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE

Dan Druff is aboard the Flat Iron, private {the three unfortunates were forced to accom-

yacht of old Gabriel Snubbers, seeking to |
get hold of secret plans for John Dough. |
He finds he has a secret enemy aboard, |
and alsofinds himself — entranced
Weona Snubbers. The second night out Dan |
is conversing with Weona on the deck when |
the ship gives a lurch and. begins to sink. |
With Weona in his arms he jumps overh« ard |
and swims. His strength begins to — fail |
and he feels himself sinking—sinking. |

by |

Installment Three
As Dan began to sink he thought, strange- |
ly, not of the precious bundle of unconscious |
woman in his arms, but of two dollar |
debt of his friend and brother in the Beta}
Upsilon Sheepa Lambda fraternity back in
college. Thus he was troubled by his con-
science. Suddenly there in the dark waters
his foot struck something hard; he tried with
his other foot—bottom!! Unbelievable
though it was he had come to land. He
staggered on and fell face down-
ward on the beach, unconscious. He
awakened by the bright sun in his eves next
he looked
a broad expanse of beach, and evidently an
island; dense woods towards the center of
the Weona
awakening.

forward
Was
in astonishment

day; around

island. showed — singns of

@ Sweetheart,” she murmured, and opened
het eyes, She was. still pretty even though |
the natural wave in her hair had been
eliminated by combat with the wave of the
ocean, Dan explained to her briefly the
situation that theiy were in.

“Ooh, a desert island; just like in’ the
movies; I'm thrilled speechless——-." and she
chattered on until Dan suggested that they
take their bearing. They walked on down
the beach, and saw there sitting on a log and
calmly smoking a pipe, old Gabriel himself,
He was the only one of the crew in evidence.
From the ill-fated ship only three had been
saved, and even their safety might He just
temporary, Dan saw the blue-prints pro- |
truding from the end of Gabriel's suitcase
and knew all was well.

Dan took his waffle-iron from his brief
case, and soon they had a nice hot breakfast
of fried oysters, shrimp, and fresh-water
trout. After breakfast they explored the
island keeping close together for protection |
against a probable unseen enemy. By noon
they were well into the interior, so they |
lunched on fruit salad, dexterously hashed |
by Weona from pineapples, bananas, peanuts, |
oranges, and sugar-cane. They found no}
sign of human life in their travels, but met |
many interesting animals and birds on the!
way in their native habitat—a raindear cite |
dashed wildly across the pampas hotly pur- |
sued by a monkey with a coconut in one!
hand and a set of harness in the other, They |
also saw, in the course of the day, the won- |
derful ikmix discovered by Boon McNutt,
the hefty halitosis, the antidote, the spiro-
gyra, the camel, the chesterfield, and the
two-humped whoofel-beast.

Near dark they returned to the beach and
cooked their supper. The next thought was
a safe place to spend the night; so Dan took
a cross-cut saw from his brief case, and soon
had fairly good log built
barber-pole palms.

Gabriel retired early, but Dan and Weona

a cabin from

! noon,

were sitting in the porch swing; the Victrola
in the house was playing “I Love You.” It
was a beautiful night; the full round moon!
made a silvery shimmering path across the,
waters to the shore. Far off in the distance |
could be heard the plaintive, crooning lullaby
of the mother elephant singing her babe to
rest. Weona leaned closer to Dan—her soft!
hair brushed his face, and she sighed. Dan}
thought it was time for him to say some-,
thing, so he took his hands out of his pockets |
and began:
“On such a night as this—,”he quoted.
“Yes, yes! go on!” she breathed excitedly.
“Aw, I forget the rest of it, but most!
. anything could happen.”

pany the savages some twenty miles into
the forest. The tribesmen were all power-
ful brutes, and Dan, even with his Lieder-
man-built, physique found it futile to resist.
Soon they arrived at the village of the
natives.

They all gathered in the public square,
and held a public ping-pong, -or conference
about the victims. Dan noticed meanwhile
that they had a very poor traffic system;
they parked their little ricochets with no
regard to right or left. and several had left
the motor running. Dan grew tired of the
long discussion and spoke to the chief in
all the languages that he knew. First he
tried English, and then United States, and
Spanish, and and) Honololu, and
SouthCarolinian, and Utopian. The chief
continued in ignorance; a happy thought
struck Dan, he addressed him in Greek and
got a response. This must be a remnant of
the expedition that had come to corner the
banana market, back in the dark ages.

The chief told Dan that he was struck by
the beauty of Weona and wanted her for
his queen, and the two men could go, Ii
they didn't to this they would be
electrocuted, the girl taken anyway.
Dan and Gabriel conferred and asked for
time to consider the situation.

“No matter what Miss
Weona becomes my queen tomorrow at high
What ho! the guard! these
person up in the tower until morning.”

(To be continued next week)

Copywrited by the Mobull

Swiss,

agree
and

your decision,

Lock

Syndicate.

Dartmouth Editor
Praises Davidson

The Darmuth College newspaper in’ the
issue of Saturday, November 14th, devoted a
large amount of space to the notable activ-
ities that have been going on at Davidson
College. The editor of the Dartmouth paper,
with the exception of an error in location,
does Davidson a large amount of ¢éredit in
his resume of recent happenings. All of the
incidents quoted were taken from The
Davidsonian, which the Dartmouth editor
describes as a “most estimablejournal.”

His first article was practically a dupli-
cation of an editorial appearing recently
in The Davidsonian, which critisized certain
freshmen who were attempting to lead or-
ganized cheering for their class basket-ball
team. The Dartmouth editor pointed out
that the upper-class-men were largely to
blame for their lack of spirit shown by the
freshmen, The upper-class-men depend

largely on the freshmen for: the organized

Cheering, and yet prevent them from cheer-
ing for their class team.

The next account in the Dartmouth paper
was an article concerning the Norris Ath-
letic Trophy. This commended the grad-
uates of Davidson for continuing to show
an active spirit in their alma mater and
providing an impetus for more spirit among
the underclassmen now at college. The last
two accounts were of football games. The
first, a clipping from the account of the
State game which told of the defeat of the
heavier Wolfpack eleven by the much small-
er Wildcats. The last article tells of the
defeat handed the Duke freshmen by the
Wildkittens.

The editor gives as his reason for devoting
this space in the Dartmouth paper to these
articles, the fact that Dartmouth is always
interested in undergraduate activities in
other colleges and that Davidson College is
a fair example of a school extremely inter-
ested in these affairs.

TURKEY TO EAT

(Continued from page 1)

Talk by Doctor Lingle
Precedes Straw Ballot
On World Court Issues

International Relations Club
Sponsors Vote on Vital Issue

STUDENTS INTERESTED

Doctor Lingle Traces History of
Question in Highly Interesting
Manner—Large Audience
Present

On last Friday evening at 8 p. m., the Inter-
national Relations Club held a meeting in
Shearer Hall which the student
body was invited. The purpose of the meet-
ing was to inform the students of the organi-
zation and functions the World Court
as it stands today, so that they may vote
intelligently on the question as to whether
America should neter the world Court when
the straw vote on that question is held.
The Club’ selected Dr. T. W.
the situation before the
He opened his discussion by stating

to entire

ot

Lingle to
students.
that
the question as to whether the World Court
The

to

discuss

is needed has been definitely decided,

only thing that America
decide is, “What will be America’s relation
to the World Court?” further,
the speaker developed his talk under three

remains for

Proceeding

main heads. The first, the circumstances
that made the Court possible,
He stated that such a court was not

Universal dominion
by one nation was the type of power pre-
ferred,

needed in ancient times,

However, after the disintegration
of Europe, the modern state emerged. Then
began a period of International anarchy,
which still exists. Then, for the first time,
were international laws
needed.

and relationships
Nations have become neighbors and
are closely related to one another,

Having shown how the way was paved
for the founding of the World Court, he
started on his second main point; the organ-
ization of the World Court.
pointed out how
grew gradually.
and finally international organizations, na-
tions were drown closer and closer together,
He cited the Red
international organization,
Russia called the first
be held in the Hague. At this meeting the
International Court of Arbitration was or-

The speaker
internatinoal relationship

sy treaties, ambassadors,

Cross as powerful

a
Then

ganized and is still functioning and giving
At. that the
States’ delegates wanted to establish a-Court.
However, under President
ship, the League of Nations was established
only to be rejected by the United States.

good results. time

The League felt that a World Court was |

needed to render important decisions, when
the League could not be convened. So a
permanent. Court the
Judges chosen.

The lecturer began his third main point.
“America’s relation to the Court?” Almost
all the nations of the World belong to the
court. America considered an outsider
hy the powers of the earth. He sfated that
the expense of belonging to the Court was
very little, being only a fraction of what
the United States is spending in her arma-
ments. Continuing, he said that the Ameri-
can leaders were willing, for the nation to
join, with certain amendments.

Naming these, Dr. Lingle concluded his
lecture, with the statement, “That if the
, United States was not the Court,
certainly must be against it, and as long as
‘we are not a member of the Court and’ on
the outside, it will be considered that
are against the Court.”

was established and

1s

tor

we

1899,

Peace Conference to’

United *

Wilson's leader-,

it

After the main speaker of the evening had |
finished his talk which was enjoyed by a!

large crowd, a public discussion period was
conducted by Professor Davis. Professor
Davis, a former President of the Interna-

tional Relations Club, used the round table |

‘discussion method with great effect and by
. . . - 4
a strict comparative valuation of the ar-

guments for and against the league, forcibly |

, demonstrated the superiority of the affirma- |

Weona turned her beautiful face up to his) he lamented, “that which seemed so near at’ tiye position. The four proposals that were
—an exquisite oriental carving it appeared, | hand, but yet is so far away, was that| undr discussion follow:

cameo-like in the soft light. He felt a sud-
den desire arise within him; he could restrain
himself no longer,—so he went in the house
and sneaked one of Gabriel's cigars, and
satisfied that longing for a smoke.
Suddenly there was a wild whoop; war-
like cries rent the air, and then sub-leased
it to the.terrible tumult of the. tom-tom.
They were surrounded by a tribe of natives,
the carnivorous Oskywow-wow savages.
Two braves appeared with the struggling
Gabriel who was trying in vain to keep his
pink pajamas. Dan halted the proceeding
and presented his card to the chief. He
being hostile to some degree, had not at-
tended college, so he could not read. And

Thanksgiving turkey dinner.”

The Radicals were ably represented in the
famous shiek and songster, David Prome-
theus Westbrook. The latter offered in-
falljble argument in favor of “Chicken Day”
by asserting that it was a rare opporttnity to
be able to associate with members of the
fairer sex, a situation, which within itself,
is very detrimental to best etiquette. So
eloquent ahd earnest was his plea that his
most dangerous opponent, already mention-
ed, stood up; and facing the speaker, uttered
these words: “David, my boy, I believe
you've uttered an eyeful at that. Let your
stomach be your guide and Turkey, and your
eyes your judge on Chicken.”

| 1. United States participating in the

World Court under the Harding-Hughes
|plan. The United States is not to be con-
' bound to advisory opinions not voluntarily
| submitted by the United States.

2. United States participation under the
“Harmony Plan” of thirty peace Jeaders.
| United States to join the Court under the
Harding-Hughes plan but to withdraw after
five years unless international law has been
codified, outlawing war and giving the Court
jurisdiction.

3. United States participation under the
Borah plan. The United States not to join
the Court untol international law has been
codified outlawing war, and the Court given

te
jurisdiction; the United States not to be +
thereby connected with the League of
Nations. WILDCATS

4. United States remaining out of the
World Court altogether. Have those old shoes rebuilt. Serv

ee ice is our watchword.
ELECTION OF HARRY VANCE
peo seas E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
(Continued from page 1)

point of his-football career was probably in Representatives
the Clemson game of last year, when he STEVE WALL and J. D. LAW
literally smeared the South Carolina Tigers
all over Wearn Field. This fall he has|'® “F
played a consistently brilliant game at guard, *
having been mentioned as a star of practi- rau tae
cally every contest of the fall. When ‘n Mooresville

Wrestling in the heavy-weight class, Vance
won a majority of his matches. tn baseball ake

visit

he seemed to come into his own again. Play-
ing center field, he was one of the most fear- |
ed batters in the college ranks. * At the end |
of the season his batting average was well |
over the 400 mark. He garnered among his |
many hits three home runs, one of them, in
the Guilford game, coming when the bases

were loaded,

Mack & Tkall

for your

While Vanee has not been able to win a-
letter in track, he is one of the best broad
Jumpers in’ school.
during the greater) part
Harry could not enter many meets and did
not haye time to practice regularly, but he
showed that he could jump when called upon
to take part.

As baseball interfered, |

High Grade Candy

Cigarettes and Fruit

of track season,

+

~The Hotel Charlotte

A Good Hotel in a Good Town!

Also, fellows, you’ll find our
‘Restaurant and Coffee Shop
just right to serve you in
every particular

TUXEDOS
$45.00

New Tuxedos
Kimball make.

lutely correct.

WE RENT TUXEDOS

of the famous Kincaid-

Faultlessly tailored---abso-

MEN’S
SECTION

STREET
FLOOR

