4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association ‘

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as\Mail~Matter of
the Second Class

t

{ .' SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published

HARLLEE- BRANCH, JR....................- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES......-------.-..-.- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W._L. LINGLE -_.- --.-----------Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS -Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY. -Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN. Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY-..-- -Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN. .--.----Alumni Editor
W. _S. GORDON._-_.- ..-Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES..-- SUababsdccurigzoae Feature Editor
T. T. JONES....-...2---.--2-2--..-..--... Inquiring Reporter
BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Rusiness Manager

M_P. CRAWFORD

Assistant Business Manager
tA, i LAKE.

ssistant Business Manager
. A. McALPINE. --Subscription Manager
V. L. ALRRIGHT_. .-Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY._-_..---_.---2..-..-...Service Manager

Reporters’ Club :

Cc. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW
TYREF DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

‘All power to the Davidson debaters who
last week decisively won from the represen-
tatives of George Washington University
and V. P. I. in two of the most interesting
debates in which our teams have particpated
in many years. With this victorious start,
and the finest debating schedule in many
years arranged by our Forensic Council, stu-
dent interest in the forensic arts should
mount high this year,

D

If only Al. G. Fields, Eddie Primrose,
Neil O’Brien and the rest of the famous stars
and producers of minstrels in our country
during the past decade could drop down to
Jaybirdsville Saturday night for the Junior
Blackface Stunt, they’d get some valuable
tips on how the thing ought to be done. At
least that’s what the Juniors are saying,

D:
THANKS TO THE UNKNOWN

There is a thrill of mystery, a flurry of
optimistic anticipation, and a sincere feeling
of gratitude prevalent on our campus, fol-
lowing the announcement that some “mys-
terious benefactor” has donated a hundred
thousand dollars to Davidson- College, to be
used in the construction of the New Cham-
bers Building, completion of which has been
delayed due to lack of funds with which to
carry on the building operations.

A few: more months and giant scaffolds
will rise toward the sky, an actual indication *
that, at last, the center and northern wings
are to be added to the new plant. No longer
will the solitary south wing, pitiful in its
isolated grandeur, flaunt its challenge to
alumni and friends of the college. A kindly
benefactor, seemingly modest to an extreme,
has answered that challenge, and “with the
receipt of his donation construction on the
remainder of the new building is assured.

College authorities, at the request of the
donor, guard closely his name. Information
from the administrative offices is meagre—
but sufficient to substantiate the rumor that
a gift of one hundred thousand dollars has
been received, and that in all probability the
entire amount will be used in the replace-
ment of Old Chambers Building, destroyed
by fire in 1921, |

Delayed payments on pledges, made in the -
campaign to raise funds for the new build-
ing, had caused the more-pessimistic of us
to lose heart. It seemed that work on the
new building was destined to drag along over
a period of many years, due to the failure of
subscribers to meet the cqnditions of their
pledges. Only the faith of our college offi-

. gials kept us Foi losing hope entirely. And
now their faith has been justified.

Perhaps this latest benefactor of the col-
lege is an alumnus of the institution. If so,
he has made a big payment on the debt of

gratitude that all graduates owe their alma

mater. Perhaps, he is only a friend—inter-
ested in the work that Davidson is attempt-
ing to do. If so, what a wonderful invest-
ment he has made.

Somehow the tinge of mystery which veils
this most recent gift to the college adds to
our enthusiasm and pleasure over this mani-
festation of generosity and interest. Of
course, we are curious enough to ‘find out
just who is this generous philanthropist —
we'd like to walk up to him collectively and
individually and shake his hand, and thank
him for enabling our college to go on with a
project, the successful completion of which
‘is near and dear to every student.

' But, he refuses to permit the authorities
to divulge his name. His reasons for this
are unquestionably wise. In the absence of
knowledge concerning his identity, we strike
out boldly in the dark to express our grat-
itude. Perhaps the God who moved him to
make this generous gift will like wise con-
vey our thanks to him.

|

STRAW-BALLOTING THE BIBLE

Little purpose can be served by the pro-
posed ‘religious poll’ to be taken through the
newspapers of the country by the Interna-
tional Advertising for the Federal Council
of Churches. The proposal, even though
made with the best of intentions, bears too
much the appearance of,a publicity stunt;
it smacks not so much of the Church as of
the press-agent. According to its sponsors,
the poll is designed to show the extent of
religious’ sentiment in the nation, and thus
furnish a basis for a vast advertising cam-
paign to be undertaken later. But its bene-
fits under this heading are at best doubtful,
and its flaws are of such a nature as to make
the plan seem highly ill-advised.

Newspaper straw-ballots—and essentially
that is what the present scheme resolves it-
self into—have heen notoriously futile and
inaccurate, They cannot be said to measure,
or even reflect, the true sentiment of the
communities in which they are taken. . Be-
cause of their very futility, the number of
intelligent persons who participate is rela-
tively small.

But there are many surprisingly active
minority groups to whom the straw-ballot.
furnishes a grand opportunity. Through it
they attempt to show a tremendous senti-
ment in favor of their own particular line.
While the great majority of citizens remain
passively positive in their qpinions, aroused
to action only by some pai moral issue,
these busy minorities welcome every straw-

_ ballot with enthusiasm. It is to them that
the present stunt will appeal most heartily,
and not to the thinking people of the nation,
whose opinions are of greatest value. Such
a straw-ballot as that intended, instead of
determining the status of religion in Amer-
ica, will serve largely as a medium for little
bands of atheists and non-believers to mag-
nify theimown theories into mattefs of vast
importance.

If the sole aim of the ‘religious poll’ were
to stimulate discussion on religious matters,
it might be justified. But rather than that,
the intention is ‘to find out how many per-
sons in this country believe in God.’ And
the results are to be utilized as material for
a general campaign of publicity and pro-
paganda,

The combination of religion and modern
advertising is one that must, be effected
skillfully if at all. Religion is personal, in-
dividualistic. Its spirit comes from within.
It cannot be ‘sold’ to the people, as cans of
beans or special brands of cigarets are sold.

—Dearborn Independent.

SAVE A LIFE

As the holiday season draws near, the eyes of
the nation are directed toward the attractive dis-
plays in the shop windows of the cities while the
rural citizens are eagerly scanning the pages of
‘the mail order catalogue. We, as students, are
looking forward to the days when we shall be
liberated for a short time to enjoy the hospitality
of our homes.

But in the anticipation of our fondest pleasures
we should not lose sight of the sad fact that there
are thousands for whom the festive season will
give no respite in their grim struggle with the
spectre of Death. There will be no armistice for
them in their battle with the awful White Plague.
It is to these, our fellow citizens, that we should
turn our eyes in sympathy. :

An avenue is provided whereby we may render
assistance where it is most truly needed in pur-
chase of Christmas seals. The national, state and
local tuberculosis associations of the United
States co-operate in the distribution of funds to
their proper sources and are closely united in the

of this country.

: preneey
It is not only the patriotic duty of every citizen
to aid in this noble undertaking by purchasing

these stamps, but it is their distinct privilege. Soon

- humane effort to stamp the loathed disease out |

Christmas Greetings

hristmas marks the coming into the world of a new force whose be-

neficence has never ceased; a force so human and compassionate that
little children sing of it with joy; and yet a force so Godlike that angels
sounded its marching music to this world. The fires that burn on happy
hearthstones are its altar-fires; the cherishirg of children’s joys its alms; the
loyalties of friendship its shining ritual, and ils sacraments are Christmas
cheer, Christmas charity, Christmas hope.

LEVON
Members of the Davidsonian Staff

take this opportunity to express their
sincerest wishes for a

Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year

To the Students, Alumni and Friends
of Davidson College

May the true spirit of this joyful season be manifested

in you, and may your thoughts dwell on the

real significance of the occasion

e
—

we

Annual Santy Letter

State Champions, North Carolina,
Three Days till the 21rst
Dearest Santy Clause,

I know it’s a misery to stop over in this here
state when the golden spires of South Carolina
are almost in sight; but just scribble under your
red derby ‘the fact that we still have some of the
good old Christmas spirits-too. You see the Santy
Clause League of Davidson College, which is com-
posed of a handsome pack of angelic little fel-
lows, has elected m¢ order man; me bein such a
good young chappie and deservin of con-
sideration.

For brevity—and also to be short—I itemize a
part of the youthful desires as thusly:

Fats Laws — a bed with present dimensions but
with steps to, and braces under, the upper
deck. I sorta like to sleep high up thataway.

| James Pinkney—a one year’s subscription to The

Daily Sugar Packet; which same publication
is put up daily by Miss Sweet Mamma.

Hermit Alexander—a new camera; the wildcat
totally destroyed my old one when I sneaked
into the animules cage to snap its picture.
Also I would like one of thosestoys called a
Buying Public.

Nick Carter—please, oh please, bring me a case
of Millenium Moustache Encourager — that
boon for prospective false-faces. If not, you
might drop off a couple Gillettes and a carton
of blades. ‘ ;

Rumple Dormitory — we of this histrionic pile
would multitudinously crave a universal
sprinkling system—one sprinkler to one room.
This perhaps might relieve the congested
fortnightly: shower bath condition.

Well, Santy, these are only a few; but I’m
down now to my last two cent stamp and this in-
considerate post office refuses to take much of
a letter for two cents anymore. The enclosed
picture, which Charlie Ritch has begged me to
send you as evidence. of his bein almost a big boy
this year, weights this packet down a bunch.

Notice, Dear Santy, that I have been very un-
selfish for my own self. Would you maybe leave
me one present though? I would so awfully
much like a good big green trash can with one re-
movable lid. It would be so nice on the porch of
Rumple.

Your admiring little friend,
William T. Covington.

the Nineteenth Annual Christmas Seal Sale will
be launched and the students of this institution
will be asked to do their part in insuring the suc-
cess of this campaign. Several booths will be dis-
tributed over the town and the race with Death
will have begun anew.

Will we buy our quota of these seals? The af-
firmative reply, is dependent upon the action the
student body chooses to take in regard to this en-
terprise. In past years the response of the men
has been most gratifying to the state headquart-
ers and has been in accord With the ideals of t#
institution.” The call has come again. Shall we
heed it?

To obtain the best results locally it is neces-
sary that we understand that the seal, which we
purchase with our carefully hoarded penny, is
merely symbolic of our contribution to worthy
charity. If we hesitate to measure the value re-
ceived in the customary dollars and cents we
should probably remark an economic deficiency.
Our donation, slight though it may be, may help

Collegiate Chatter

STARE DECISIS *

Bobby Jones, simultaneous open golf champion
of Great Britain and America, whose achievements
on the greens and fairways have won. him a place
in the popular Hall of Fame, has laid aside the
brassie and niblick, to enter the Lamar School of
Law at Emory University. After a glorious career
on the links, and a brief but successful “shot” at
the real estate game, Bobby has decided to try his
hand at law. And he’s in dead earnest about it,
according to the Emory Wheel, which quotes the
golden boy of golf as having said: “It’s all a mat-
ter of work with me. It takes hard work to at-
tain anything that’s worthwhile, and that’s what
I'm out for.” If Bobby’s decision will help to
carry over into the legal profession the same
ideals of good sportsmanship and fair play on the
golf courses of two continents, in the parlance of
the lawyers, stare decisist

Up in Smoke
Students at Howard College must forego their
biological interests for a time at least since a
fire, doing damage tothe extent of $27,000, de-
stroyed their museum and eighty high-powered
misroscopes.

More Canes

Co-eds in the Law School at Tulane University
have joined with the men students and have
adopted canes as a senior insignia. The canes are
of a standard make, and are carried by women
and--men alike. “Wonder if they will wear
derbies too,” inquires’ the Wesleyan College
Watchtower, “Fancy the girls then!’

Burbank’s Proteges

“By the wish of Luther Burbank, who died last
spring, Stanford University will continue the
plant experimentation begun by the horticultural
wizard,” says The New Student. The $1,000,000
necessary for carrying on this work at the Se-
bastopol farm, north of San Francisco, will be
raised by the Sebastopol Chamber of Commerce.
Mrs. Burbank has offered the University addition-
al lands, from the prchards of the great Burbank,
which will constitute a gift of $50,000.

,

Time to Retird

When the great symphony orchestra of the
Howard Theater in Atlanta stépped in the midst
of a selection from “Faust” last Saturday night,
and broke into the refrain of “Ramblin’ Wreck,”
a theater-full of Atlantans turned their heads to
watch more than a thousand yelling Tech boys
march into the theater and down the aisle, clad
only in night-shirts and other evening wear. It
was a celebration in honor of the Yellow Jackets’
victory over Tulane, and the great crowd of pa-
trons at the Howard fell into the spirit of the af-
fair, and a great pep meeting followed. .A dis-
patch appearing in the South Carolina Gamecock
Says that many of the boys were garbed in neg-
ligee, while-some™ are said to have been. wearing
little more than their birthday clothes, and a
Savage coat of red ink. It was a great event for
the Tech boys and all Atlanta.

to restore some unfortunate child to health, a
child, who, unable to defend himself, was born
into the world inflicted with this terrible malady.
Buy Christmas seals and SAVE A LIFE.
—Auburn Plainsman.
