4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

-The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
F Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College —

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All: Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
anaging Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
aived from an, unknown source will not be published.

esse Editor-in-Chief

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.
-Business Manager

VERNON S. BROYLES...

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wi Li DIN GSH pale dabse cates cose cebeehausis Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN......-.-.--.-.- Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS. “ae ......-Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB. -Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY-...-- ..-..-Alumni Editor
Di Mi CATH GUNE eer eee Exchange Editor
Hiv SHUM UNOiwocdissantuacaducdnuousaue Humorous Editor
D. M,- CADHOUN.....- SacapeacessenctelUniny Huitor
W. S. GORDON__-------- _....----------Assignment Editor
PF —JON BS oon cn ner aaca car gre ew wnn nnn ------Feattire Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
FE. 1.-DOUGHASS. ...-=--=---=- Assistant Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD-- _....-Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAK _.....Assistant Business Manager

I _....-.-..---Subscription Manager
_Circulation Manager
_....-Service Manager

W. L. ALBRIGHT........-
R. S. ABERNETHY...

Reporters’ Club
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN

C, C, MURCHISON
H, M. AUSTIN

W. T. COVINGTON lr. T. JONES

W. T. DAVIS R. H. McILWAINE
JOHN MORIARTY J. P. McKNIGHT
B. FPF. McOUEEN A. M. SPARROW
C. R. LAKE J. G. WHARTON
R. R. KANE B. WILSON

| EDITORIAL

It’s all right to profit by your mistakes,
but it’s cheaper sometimes to profit by the
mistakes of others,

4

D
The younger generation’s main fault is,
it has learned things too readily from the
older.

D
Among the things that this. summer
taught us is not to smell a flower while a
bee is smelling it.

D

Jamie Kuykendall and Fletcher Adams,
new managers of the Student Store, deserve
praise for the fine way in which they have
equipped their little shop this fall. We-be-
lieve it to be as adequately equipped as any
college store in this section, and it is prov-
ing a dispensary not only of service but al-
so of satisfaction. Students should remem-
ber that the store is theirs, and that its
profits go into the coffers of student. or-
ganizations. The fine equipment, the ex-
cellent service, and the ultimate aim of the
Student Store all commend to us its slogan
—"Tt’s Yours, Why Not Patronise It?”

D

While trouble may be only a bubble, don’t
forget that bubbles sometimes get soap in
your éyes.

UP FROM PERDITION

Following his examination for ordination
as a minister of the Baptist Church some
months ago, Hillyer Hawthorne Straton,
twenty-one-year-old son of the. Rey. Dr.
John Roach Straton, gave this observation
to reporters: “I believe the world is going
plum to Hell. T believe that it is bad, and

_ always has been bad, and it’s going to’ get
worse,”

What a gloomy outlook for a young man
—just out of the seminary, and ready for a
life of service to mankind! ae

No worse, however, than the, outlook of
Wilfred O. Cross, a last June graduate of
the University of Chicago, who has charged
American college students with increasing
immorality in a recent article in a widely-
circulated church paper. Cross is decidedly
pessimistic concerning the’ outcome of pres-
ent tendencies among American undergrad-
uates, most of whom, he believes, will grad-
uate from college educated only to drag the
world down into the depths ‘of perdition
which young Straton declares to be our ul-
timate destination,

Dean C. S. Bougher, dean at the Univer-
sity of Chicago, replies to the charges made
by Cross as follows: “No sweeping indict-
ment against the modern undergradtes is
warranted, It is my personal reaction that
the generation now is, if anything, cleaner
than 10 or 20 years ago. We are not the
least worried. We think we understand
what the conditions are, and we realize that
while they are not ideal, they are generally
healthy.”

_ The pessimistic outlook of these two
young college graduates seems to be char-
acteristic of the line of thought of those

who become too deeply religious at twenty-.
one. Getting sour at the world before one

has seen more than twenty-one years of it
seems to have become a new privilege of
youth. There remains, however, in older
heads, we rejoice to say, some doubt about
the world’s headlong plunge into perdition,
and we are glad that their optimism will not
be blurred by these latest surveys of im-

| vai
| pressionable youth.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES
Honorary fraternities, formerly symbols
of achievement and of service, are .in emi-
nent danger of losing ‘their usefulness!
That, perhaps, may seem a bold indictment
to ‘bring against these groups, and yet a
searching inquiry into the records of the
| honorary fraternities for the past two years,
| with a few exceptions, will reveal the truth
| of such a statement.
What sort of men compose the honorary
fraternities at Davidson ‘today? The man
| whose record warrants his election to the
| ranks of the select? Sometimes yes, but,
| equally as often, na, The honorary fra-
| ternity has in a number of instances enter-
ed into a contemptible realn’ of favoritism,
| from which it must be rescued quickly or be
| lost forever as an agency dedicated to the
| upbuilding of the college.

' Too many men get into honorary fra-
ternities because they are friendly with the
men who compose the particular group
which has extended to them a bid. Like so
many positions on the glee club, on the
staff of college publications, and on the
board of managers of college teams, mem-
bership in the honorary, fraternities are

| rapidly becoming more a matter of pref-
erence and partiality than of performance.

| Friendships on the campus are becoming the
determining factor in the choice of too
| many honorary fraternity members,
With what result is this tendency oper-
ating? The président of the honorary fra-
) ternity council last year spoke of the out-
| come of such a tendency in a lengthy dis-
| cussion, which was never generally read. It
is causing the honorary fraternity groups
to become filled to capacity with “honor-
| seekers,” men who once they have been
| initiated never bother to attend the meet-
|
|

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

ings or to aid in the furtherance of the
ideals of the groups to which they have
) been admitted.
When friendships determine the member-
ship of the honorary fraternities, the same
| men will be seen to compose practically all
the honorary groups. Is that true at David-
son? Look over the list. Do not the same
men that compose one honorary fraternity,
with few exceptions, compose the member-
ship of one or more of the other honorary
groups? This fact so crowds a single group
of men, with honor and responsibility that,
even though they cared to do so, they could
not devote the proper interest or attentiofi
to any one of the frat@rnities without neg-
lecting the interests of a similar group to
which they also belong.

|

|
| It would not be wise to say that a man dt
Davidson makes an honorary fraternity
simply because of friendships. That would
| be untrue.» A man must have some qualifi-
;) cations with which his election can be ex-
| cused. But, too often the attributes of the
| chosen member are subordinate tq those of
another, who unfortunately does not pos-
| sess the necessary “pull” that would secure’
| for him an honor that he rightfully deserves.
| If the menibership of a number of our
honorary fraternities is any indication
of Davidson’s leadership potentialities, then
our student-body and our senior class, iw
| particular, are in general a mass of unin-
dustrious and untalented fellows! It might
seem unwise at this time to call attention to
a vice which undeniably exists on our cam-
| pus, but when the vice is so general as to
| threaten the destruction of democracy and
| ambition among the students, it is time
| someone began to scratch beneath the sur-
| face in an effort to discover what good rea-
son there is for such partiality !:

REAL ESTATE OR RELIGION—
WHICH?

That which man spent years of energy
and millions of dollars in constructing God
has destroyed in the twinkling of an eye.
The city of Miami, whose phenomenai
growth and unprecedented prosperity fur-
nished the chief topic of American conver-
sation a few months ago, stands today a
sickening reminder to the world that God
is a force with whom the world must reck-
on, and that in the midst of industrial pros-

_perity and commercial progress He must
' not be forgotten.

Miami and its populace was no more un-
godly than a multitude of other American
cities, and it would be absurd for: us to
point to the present desolation and de-
struction of that city as the result of un-
godliness alone. But, Miami had been built
with rapidity, trusting too much, perhaps,

9

|
|

on the power and ingenuity of mankind, and_|_

[WHO'S WHO AT DAVIDSON

JAMES FAULKNER PINKNEY
| Canon City, Col.
President of the Student Body
Beckley, West Virginia,
claims Jim as “her son,”
and Jim modestly permits
Beckley thus to boast.
The fall of 1923 witnessed
Pinkney’s matriculation
at Davidson, and . the
passing years have wit-
nessed his remarkable
achievements. Jim re-
mained more or less ob-
scurely in the  back-
ground for his first few
months at Davidson, and
Was known during his freshman Vear only as a
| substitute lineman on the freshman football squad.
| Then some statistical fiend got up a questionnaire
| to determine the most handsome man and Jim
| stepped quickly into prominence. His progress
from that time has been unprecedented, and his
achievements are spectacular.
| Today he looks back upon three years of con-
tinuous success, both on the gridiron, the cinder-
path and in. student activities. Among his many
honors are listed the Presidency of the Student
30dy, which position he now holds; the Secre-
taryship of the Student Body, the Presidencycof
the Junior Class, the Vice-Presidency of the
Student Body, the Vice-Presidency of the Ath-
letic Association, two years service on the Stu-
dent Council, of which he is now the head; mem-
bership on the “Y” Board of Control, and numer-
| ous positions of honor in literary societies and
other student organizations. His college career
has been one of well rounded activity, and when
he graduates in June, he will leave behind him in
Davidson an enviable record as an athlete and as
aman, Jim is a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity.

much to be desired as all, a place

WILLIAM ARMISTEAD CHRISTIAN, JR.
Mobile, Ala.
President of the Y. M. C. A,

“Bill” Christian came
to. Davidson from Ala-
bama just about the time
that Billy Sword’s “Ala-
bama Bound” was taking
the country by storm.”
Bill scored as much of a
hit as that song, and was’
perhaps the first man in
the class of ’27 to gain
prominence. His  elec- |
tion to the presidency of
his class during his
freshman year was a
tribute to his popularity and a fine indication of
the high esteem in which he is held not alone by
his classmates, but the members of the student
body in general. ,

No member of the present senior class is more
modest or more active, and Bill’s achievements
will remain as a lasting tribute to his manly
qualities. His interest in religious activities and
his sterling qualities of Christan-living have won
for him the position of the “Y” presidency, which
is second only to the position of student body
presidency in its importance and its influence.
Other of Bill’s accomplishments include the win-

ning of a freshman scholarship medal, member-

ship on the student council for three years, sec-
retaryship of the athletic association, membership
on the varsity football squad, student secretary-
ship of the “Y”, membership in the international
relations club, the “Y” cabinet, and what. is as
on the honor
roll for three consecutive years. No finer per-
sonality, no cleaner man, no more conscientious
worker, no finer friend can be found. Bill is a
real four-square fellow. Christian isa member of
the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

The Inquiring Reporter

With the College Editors

On the twentieth of August ground was broken
for the stadium on the Richardson field, and now
| it is nearing completion. What do you think of
| its relation to the athletics of the college?
| Coach Tilson: The new stadium will. be a
| great asset to athletics wher it is completed, and

will help accommodate the crowds at the Caro-

lina game.
Goodykoontz: I feel,
' that it is a great step, and it should be a begin-
ning of bigger and better athletics at Davidson.
Mr. Foard, Construction Engineer: Well, young
man, it’s just about done, we hope to start the
pouring in a few days, and I’m sure it will be
ready for use before the Home-Coming Day..
Howard Arbuckle, Jr.: It is good enough, as
| far as it goes, but the example set by Mr. Rich-
ardson should be followed by more of the alumni.
I think it will help draw crowds here for the
games, and establish the precedent of having the
big games played here, instead of in nearby towns
as in the past.

Don Wharton: So much has been said about

the stadium, that I'm only waiting to see how it

‘

|

as everyone else does,

|

‘sits.”
Jim Farrell: Hot stuffy and a good beginning
of greater things.

reckoning too little on the power of God.
Commercialism had become the cry of the
_ hour, and in the midst of beautiful-riviera’s
and, magnificent office-buildings,* Miami’s
churches were too often cast into the back-
ground. It was real estate not religion that
had attracted the great hordes of dollar-
mongers to Florida during previous months,
and it is not impossible that they had built
their cities and developed their sub-divisions
largely on commercial ideals alone. 9
This mighty catastrophe, which has taken
its toll of human life, and has left thousands
without homes, should be a constant re-
minder to us all that he who builds his house
on sand builds unwisely and challenges the
power of God. America stands in sorrow-
ful contemplation of a wreckage of homes
and earthly possessions the like of which
| has never been known to our country.

“op

jut the wreckage will be cleared away,”
| says the “Charlotte Observer, “and Florida
| will build even more beautiful than ever.”
| May this period of reconstruction in Florida
be likewise a period of reconstruction
throughout the whole world!

Woman: “How did you get that Carnegie Medal ?”
Tramp: “Heroism, lady. I took it away from a
guy that was twice my size.”

Grocer: “Have you forgotten that five dollars that
you owe me?”

Student: “Not yet; give me time.” _

“Fresh Out”

Freshmen at our companion college, P. C. of
S. C., have just completed a lively week of enter-
tainment at the hands of the “bloody” sophomores,
according to press diispatches appearing in the
Blue Stocking, lively student publication .at the
Presbyterian College. The issuance of freshman
regulations, commanding the first-year men to
carry matches at all times for the convenience of
their elders, to wear a broad green band on their
arms as a “rat” insignia, and to perform other
acts of obedience, was followed by a general
freshman reception at which time the trembling
fresh were made to run through a long gauntlet
of upperclassmen who had lined up and down the
sides of Clinton’s main street. A “Rat Trial,”
which must have been both amusing and impres-
sive, marked the culmination of the week’s ac-
tivities. This bit of diversion at the hands of
freshmen and sophomores undoubtedly helped to
relieve the tension, that has been-eminent at P. C.
since the announcement that their beloved presi-
dent, Dr. Douglas, has been offered the presi-
dency of the University of South Carolina.

D

“Honor-Bound”

A new feature of the matriculation at Roanoke
€ollege this year was the signing of an Honor
Pledge by every member of the student-body,
says the Brackety-Ack, official organ of the Roa-
noke student body.’ The pledge was. an embodi-

ment of the principles of the Roanoke Honor

Code, and will serve to correct misconceptions on
the part ofthe students concerning the new honor
system. A copy of the signed pledge was fur-
nished to each student as he registered,

D

““Transcontinental Tour’

The Hornet, weekly newspaper’ at Furman Uni-
versity, tells of an interesting journey of 1,400
miles, which was made by two Furman grid can-
didates returning to the college for early foot-
ball practice. The two men, O. W. Pipkins and
J.C. Hurt, Jr., left their homes in far-away Okla-
homa in a “striped-down” Ford, and made their
almost transcontinental journey in four days.
They arrived in Greenville, S. C., with their
“rattler” loaded down with extra equipment and
necessary repair implements. The Ford, which
cost the two adventurers only twenty-five green-
backs, was sold at auction on the Furman cam-
pus, and went to an admiring buyer at the great
“sacrifice price*-of thirty dollars, the extra five
dollars being declared a payment for the unique
history that the little flivver now boasts for it-
self.

First Maid: “How did you like working for that
college professor?”

Second Menial: “Aw, it was a rotten job. He was
all the time fussing with his wife, and they kept me

busy-running-from-the-keyhole-to-the-dietronary
