THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

Professor Expresses Views of

Faculty ( On R.O.T.C. Unit Here

I have never heard a member: of the Ds
ulty indicate that in his opinion the R. O.
T. C.- should be discontinued at Lear
College; nor do T know of any one who
would be likely to express such a judgment
at this time. I have heard several members
express themselves as approving, but wish-
ing that certain changes could be made.
Others have indicated unqualified approval.
In any group of 30 or more thinking men
there is likely to be some difference of opin-
ion as to ways, means, and methods, even
when all agree on the general principle. It
is true in this case.

Here and elsewhere the question is raised
as to the propriety of maintaining a unit of
the R. O. T. C. at a church college or any
other college, when there is a universal long-
ing for world peace in this country, and the
permanent abolition of war. I would reply
that permanent world peace is not in sight,
and so far as we can see now, in spite of our
hopes and prayers, the future bears a close
resemblance to the past. Our national gov-
ernment pursues the policy of reasonable pre-
paredness, and calls upon all good citizens to
co-operate in any reasonable manner. At
most, a college, by maintaining an R, O. T.
C. unit, is making some slight preparation
for a possible national emergency which
involve us all. If an accident occurred to
me personally, | hope that it will not be nee-
essary to send too far or wait too long for
some one who can render at least some slight
degree of first aid. That is all we are try-
ing to do in that direction at Davidson, with
some financial encouragement from our goy-
ernment.

Does the R. O. T. C.
war?

foster the spirit of
I cannot sce that members of the R.
O. T. C. have any more of the war spirit
than private citizens of Davidson @nd neigh-
boring towns. When I discover such a spirit
I shall be in favor of discontinuing the unit.

Every college such as Davidson must have
a system of physical education that will reach
every member of the student body. No per-
fect system has yet been devised anywhere.
In colleges that have a system of physical
coaches, with compulsory exercises, so far as
my knowledge goes, there is more objection
and criticism on the part of the students than
there is of the R. O. T. C. idea at Davidson.
The R. O. T. C. gets all students of the lower
classes out for a certain amount of physical
exercise and instruction as to their physical
well-being, and in this is certainly surpasses
any other system of physical training yet de-
vised at Davidson. The man who under-
takes to introduce a substitute that equals the
R. O. T. C. in this particular will have a
difficult task.

The democratic spirit developed¢by the or-
ganization seems to me a very fine thing to
have on the college campus. Every member
ot the student body receives consideration, is

Debaters Selected For
P. C. Forensic Contest

Stewart, Pullen, aad McCutcheon
Chosen—Davidson in World
Court Debate

Shortly before the Easter holidays the
preliminaries were held for the
bating team to go against Presbyterian Col-
lege. Davidson has the affirmative side of
the query: Resolved, That the United States
should enter the World Court.

varsity de-

There were 11 men in the tryout; those
winning the coveted places on the team were :
D. H. Stewart, FE. T. Pullen and T. G. Me-
Cutehen, with W. A. Christian as alternate.

Don Stewart was on the freshman team
three years ago that defeated the freshman
team of the University of North Carolina.
He has been prominent in literary society
work, and was a strong contender for the
Junior Oratorical medal. He is a Metro
philian.

kK. T. Pullen is one of the most forceful
speakers of the campus, and has been active
in literary work since has been in Davidson
Coflege. Pullen is president of the Metro
philian Society.

Gordon MeCutchen is a consistent worker
in all liters
of the outstanding contributors to the maga-
zine. He is a member of the Eumenean Lit
erary Society.

ry work of the campus, being one

W. A. Christian has been alternate on two
varsity debating teams this year. He is a
member of, and has held various offices in
the Eu Society. He is a leader in campus
activities, and was recently clected as presi
dent of the Y. M. C. A. for next year, All
four of these men are members of the Alpha
Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity.

The question will be debated on April 27th
in the auditorium of Winthrop College, Rock
Hill, S.C. The men trying out for places
on the team besides those making — places
were: C, G, Davis, J. P. MeKnight, A. B.
Williford, Tyree Dillard, Wit) Hancock, F.
D. Daniel, L. K. Pritchett. J.
Lawdon Williams.

C. Barrington,

cording to his aptitude in this particular line,
It is a great thing to have each student, even
the timid one, in a co- operative undertaking,
working side by side in the Open with his
fellow students.

The R. O, T. C. has given no small impetus
to interest in music on the campus. Every
‘one who can play a wind instrument of any
kind is encouraged to compete for a position
in the band, and liberal opportunity is given
_for practice with musical instruments which
are much in demand on all kinds of public
occasions,

engaged in team work with his fellows, and,

eventually has opportunity for leadership ac-

Anything in the

Line of

Hardware
Groceries
Dry Goods
Millinery

woocece

Notions

Rugs

Furniture

college life and work.

Davidson College has been very fortunate
from the beginning in the kind of men sent
tous by the U. S. Government. These army
officers, as a rule, have been men of a fine
type, as is the case today, entering into the
spirit of the campus in a very wholesome
way and making a valuable contribution to
the life of the college. We would miss them
seriously, were they to leave us.

Certain suggestions have been made by
members of the faculty, as to a few. desirable
jchanges. We feel that there is great need
| for suitable grounds for the activities of the
AR (0), Ih, (e,,
! seem to be the place for it, and serious ques-
tion can be raised as to the propriety of using
Richardson Field for this purpose. Here is a
problem the college and the R. O. T. C. will
have to work out in the near future.

The central campus does not

There is a feeling in the faculty that more
“stress should be laid upon the intellectual
side of the work of the R. O. T. C., notably
in the upper classes, than we understand to
be the case at present. As one who special-
ized in history during his university career,
the writer is well aware that military history
is a great phase of the subject, involving
geography. on a great scale, biography,
sciences of several kinds, legislation, diplo-
macy, governmental organization, etc. I am
not sure to what extent it may be practicable
to stress in a greater degree the intellectual
side of the work, but I am convinced that
Lthere is a large intellectual field awaiting cul-
| tivation by an R. O. T. C. unit, involving
much material that is valuable to the student
interested in broad liberal culture. }

I am convinced that all members of the
faculty’are keenly appreciative of the strong
| points of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, and of
| the efforts of all parties concerned, and we
| shall watch with interest any progress re-
corded in this, just as in all other phases of
A bese es

C/nusual Fexcellence
Never happens by Chance

(ESPECIALLY THREE TIMES Ij A ROW)

HE fact that we have again been
awarded the contract for the hand-
some 500-page year book of the United
States Military Academy evidences an
organization and service that can work
with you equally well.
Our personnel are all college men who know and
appreciate your particular ideas and problems.

We will appreciate an opportunity to work with
you.

A $25,000 Government contract---a solid
carload shipment of handsome books---
placed with this company tn the face of
severe Northern competition.

The
QUEEN.CITY PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C,

f Wren i it’s the night of
the season’s most festive dance—
and Mimi, herself, has consented
to go—when in a last moment
before starting you thank
your good fortune

—have a Camel!

WHEN the night of the
famous prom has come
—and you contemplate
your luck and your
greatness — have a
Camel!

For Camel adds of its
own romance to every
memorable event. Camels
never tire the taste, never
i leave a cigaretty after-
i iT 4 yr i taste. When you light a

Ur al Camel, you may know
you are smoking the
world’s mellowest
cigarette.

So this night, as you
fare boldly forth to
society’s smartest and
gayest affair—learn then
how sympathetic, how
really fine and friendly a
cigarette can be.

Have a Camel!

; “RRA

Our highest wish. if you do

not yet know Camel qual-

ity, is that you try them.
€ invite you to compare

Camels with any cigarette
made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco

Company

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability
of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men.
Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish
and Domestic tobaccos. The most ‘skilfut blending. The
most scientific package. No other cigarette made is like
Camels. No better cigarette can be made. Camels are the
overwhelming choice of experienced smokers.

© 1926

