THEDAVI

>

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 25, 1926

ONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

No. 20

Davidion Quint Returns to Hill After
‘Losing to Carolina, State and Duke

Duke Evens Score for Davidson’s
Early-Season Win

STATE 35—Davidson 19

Davidson and Duke Play Extra
Period As Methodists Win 32-30

Coach Monk Younger brought his defeated
band of Wildcats back to the Hill Wednes-
day afternoon following three successive
losses to the crack basketball quints of North
Carolina University, North Carolina State.
and Duke University.

The team left Saturday morning for Ral-
cight, where it was handed a 35-19 score by
the fast Tech quint that night, State winning
for the second time of the season over the
Wildcats. Duke was, able to nose out by one
field goal in an extra-period game Monday
night,

The expected victory of the
championship team of the University of
North Carolina became a slaughter of the
Wildcats as the Davidson team went down
53-18 in the Tin Can at Chapel Hill Tuesday
night. :

This brought to an end the Wildcat games
away from home, and closed the second -un-
successful trip for Davidson; Through
South Carolina the Davidson quint had roam-
ed to win from Furman University and lose
by one and two point margins respectively to
Wofford and Clemson Colleges. Only ‘one
game remains for the Wildcats, that with.the
wonder team from Citadel here Saturday
night. :

The three games, as recorded by the North
Carolina papers, with slight changes, follow:

The Tar Heels turned loose an irresistable
attack in the last half of the game with
Davidson Tuesday night and swamped _ the
Wildcats under a 53 to 18 score.

Celebrating their final game on the tin can
court before their departure for Atlanta and
the Southern Conference tournament the
Carolina quint piled up their biggest score of
the season.

The two teams passed the ball around for

(Continued on page 7)

Southern

LAST GAME SATURDAY

Saturday night the varsity Wildcats
close their season by meeting the strong
Citadel quintet. The Cadets boast ot
an exceptionally strong team this year ;
being one of the strongest combina-
tions in the S. I. A. A, and having
been defeated by but one South Caro-
lina team.

In Weeks and Douglas the, Wildcats
meet a fast pair of forwards; Weeks
named several all-
Southern teams last year, and both
having attracted much attention by
their spectacular playing this year.

having been on

Sigma Pi Sigma to
Bring Lafferty to
Talk of X-Ray

on X-ray, will give a lecture on his experi-
ences with X-rays at 7:30 o'clock Tuesday
evening, Mareh 2nd, in Shearer Hall. He
will be here under the auspices of the Sigma
{Pi Sigma honorary physics fraternity, and
will speak especially to the members of that

fraternity, Realizing that this will be one of ©

ithe most interesting lectures of the year, the

Sigma Pi Sigmas have been good cnough to
throw the meeting open to all, and to have
Dr. Lafferty speak in Shearer Hall. every
one is invited, and an interesting hour is-
promised to any who care to attend.

Dr. Lafferty graduated from Davidson in
1899, While here, he was an assistant in
physics. For several years he attended the
North Carolita Medical College. After he
had practiced medicine for several years and

had become established as a physician, he
taught at the North Carolina Medical College
until it united with the Richmond Medical
School at Richmond, Virginia. Then he
was made head of the X-ray department of
| (Continued on page 3)

Glorious F. estivity in Charlotte as

Sophomores Observe Annual Banquet

‘

The Sophomore Clas held its annual bon-'

quet last Saturday evening at the Charlotte
Chamber of Commerce. The banquet, which
is the climax of the Sophomore year, proved
to be a success throughout. Caldwell With-
ers, acting as toastmaster, presented a varied
program whith featured the occasion, The
Chamber of Commerce chefs served a de-
licious banquet which, coupled with the pro-
gram, made the event one of hilarity and
mirth throughout. ‘

The Grand Entre took place at 6:30, and
after the invocation by Professor Foreman
and a few remarks by the toastmaster, din-
ner was served. The menu was attractive,
ranging from oyster cocktail to pie a la
mode with all of the accompanying embel-
lishments. The dining hall had been beau-
tifully decorated with gold and blue stream-
ers and class numerals. During the latter
part of the meal three toasts were presented,
by Witt Hancock, Boyce Martin, and W. L.
Lingle, to the three most prominent women
of the day: the Holeproof ; Hosiery Girl,
Maggie, and Prudence Church.

Following this the toastmaster took the
floor and introduced Bob McMillan as the
first speaker of the evening. In a few brief
words he stated his appreciation of being in-
vited to the banquet and that he wished
that he might be back at Davidson with the
class.

Olin Nisbet, the class president, gave a
short talk, giving a brief history of the class
and expressing the desire that it might be as

successful in the future as it has been in

the past.

At this point Coach Tilson was called on
for an impromptu speech. The class
twenty-eight, he said, had more successful
athletes than any other class in school, How-

of

ever, he said, there are many undeveloped
athletes in the class and he urged more of
the members to go out for the varsity teams.

A. M. Hillhouse, the Y. M. C, A, secretary
at Davidson, gave what was perhaps the
most appreciated talk of the evening. He
chose for his subject, “Not Ice Cream Nor
Jersey Milk.” He did not know what he
could talk about, he said, but he did know
that the two things mentioned in the subject
were ones which he could not talk about.
In his youth he had had a perfect knowledge
of Jersey milk to such an extent that he
considered paradise as a “place flowing with
Jersey milk and Georgia honey with strects
‘of golden butter and houses of cream
cheese.” After endeavoring for ten minutes
jto find something which he could talk about,
he decided that it was an impossibility, and
‘brought his speech to a close with a short
elegy to those who have recently: left the
ranks of the class.

Joe Ellis, a Charlotte boy, was to have
given at this point what was termed as the
Paris’ Island Marine Wiggle. Due to un-
avoidable circumstances he was unable to.
attend, however.

a

Bob Miller gave a talk on class activities
(Continued on page 3)

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, a widely-known expert,

Glee Club Adds Short
Play by Fred Smith to

Program Before Leaving

Club Left on Annual Tour Tuesday
—Will Return in Ten Days

JUNIOR SMOKER SOON

; The Junior class will have its first
Davidson

Tuesday morning the College
Club started on its annual Southern
tour, and before returning to Davidson will
give concerts in Spartanburg, Beaufort or
Toccoa, Atlanta, Deeatur, and
Charlotte, as previously announced in’ their
schedule.

The club will enjoy the privilege of broad-
casting from Station WSB, of the Atlanta
Journal, while in Atlanta,

A novel feature added the
Glee Club in its incorporation of the Dra-
matic Club for its Southern tour, This lat
ter club will fill a long-felt: need of some
form of entertainment between acts of. the

social meeting of the year Thursday

night, Mareh 4th.

Glee
This gathering will
be in the nature of a smoker and will
Greenville, in all probability be held at the Max-
well-Chambers Hotel. The purpose of
the smoker, as announced by leading
members of the class, is to get the men
together socially before Junior Speak-
ing and to discuss plans already made
and formulate additional
Mack Austin is in charge of the pro-
gram,

has been to

to ones,

Glee Club, and will entertain the audiences by
a one-act farce entitled Radio Activity, writ-
ten by Frederick Smith YThe scene of this
play is in the broadcasting station FOB De

ueens Players to
Appear in Shearer
on First of March

Queens College Dramatic Club

troit, and a lively program is given from this
station.
play is as follows:
RADIO ACTIVITY
By Frederick Smith

The personnel and program of the

The Queens College Dramatic Club will

Fred Smith. appear in Shearer Hall on’ Monday, Mareh

teller

Gabriel Snubbers, announcer

Miss Iva Static, bed-time story

' Dillard Ist. The Davidson students will be especially
Nee eat ; ‘ : . dueky in having this oppdrtunity to see this
Isaae Smigglebeison, Seoteh philanthropist llth ;

Bill Green,
Cy Perkins,
Swain.
Brutus Q, Jones Ceolored)
Algernon Hooteh

The title of the play will be “Mr. Bob.”
The play is a laugh-a-minute
comedy with the characters of almost equal
importance, “There will be an additional at
traction in the fact that the “men are girls.”

The Gast is: haan Wey see

Philip Roysén -Ama Johnson,

Noel Walker.
Ethel Braswell,
Pauline Owen,

band master Gordon Me

hip-rowring,
Dick Flinn,

John Foster.

AlliiuiiicAsdociation to
Aid College Activities

Dr. Rowan Writes Letter to Alumni
Asking for Funds

Robert Brown
Jenkins

Xebecea Luke

Katherine Rogers—Minnie Silverstein.
Marion Bryant—Sarah Ross,

Patty-- Dolly Moore.

The Davidson students are especially lucky

Dr. Jesse C. Rowan, president of the Day 7
Phe Queens

idson College Alumni Association, has just
recently mailed out letters to all the alumni

in securing this performance,
College Dramatic Club is widely known over
the Carolinas and will doubtless be well at-

of the college asking’ for donations to what
tended.

he terms “The Loyalty fund.” In the letter
he states that all contributions to this fund
will be distributed among each of three needs,
one-third. to go to each cause.

One of the greatest needs of the college is
an alumni secretary; another need is provid-
ing for the professors an opportunity to
travel, and a third need is a greater pro- “Ships” was the subject of Dr, Dunbar HH.
vision for athletics. These, he says, are the Qyden's address before the: students at the
three causes to which the alumni are asked to WA MOU AW vesner ccnvice Sundis cvcnint
contribute. :

The idea originated at a meeting of the
alumni Day last October
30th, and has just been put into a definite text on which his remarks were based was
plan, known as “The Loyalty Fund.” -There James 3:4, “Behold also the ships.” Man
is no definite amount set for any of the and his journey through life were compared
alumni to contribute; it is all voluntary, and to a commission ship and its voyage. In the
each year the alumni will have the oppor- concluding sentences of his talk Dr. Ogden
tunity of again making a contribution. The summed up the preceding thought by saying,
plan is based upon that used by Harvard, the essential part of a ship is the steele; of
which derives a great income for the insti- man, moral character. As the boilers furnish
tution. ; the power for the ship, man, if he is to fur-

Dr. Rowan’s letter follows in part. nish power for the world, must be willing to

“One of the recognizéd, admitted outstand- get down and serve the lowest of humanity.
ing needs of Davidsoh College is an alumni, The bridge of a ship is occupied solely by the
secretary. An alumni secretary, among captain. The bridge of the human ship must
other things, would keep Davidson College be reserved for Jesus Christ alone. A ship
and her alumni linked up, organize alumni as- must have a port, a man a goal in life.
sociations, and help in inducing young men The building of a ship is a triumph of co-
of the highest type, morally, intellectually operation, the speaker said. Every part must
and physically to enter Davidson College. be made by a different workman. It

“Another great need of Davidson College long process and the greater the ship the
is providing for her professors an oppor- longer it takes-to build it.
tunity to travel and to get that widened vision the child and young person is analogous to
and cultured advantage’ which cansceme jn this It must. be done careiully and is very
no other way. These advantages have come!important. If some part of his character is
already to a few of the Davidson professors | not strong it will fail when the storms of life
through the effort and liberality of a few. are met. The building of the ship corre-

“Another need of Davidson College is a sponds to the moulding of character.
greater provision for athletics, both inter-. When the ship is finished it is launched and
collegiate and collegiate. Maintaining a high set out upon new tasks. In life there are sev-
standard in athletics as well as a high stand- jeral launchings. One comes at college grad-

the first of a series of talks which continued

on Homecoming through Wednesday night. The seripture

is a

ard in other respects is imperative.” uation, another at death. Dr: Ogden said

The training of |

Trustees Stress Immediate Collection

of Pledges on Chambers Building Fund

| ———_—_—_—
Semi-Annual Meeting Considers
Doctor Kelly’s Report

FACULTY ENLARGED

Doctor Richards Elected Head of
Bible Department—Enlargement
to Temporary Building

The Board of Trustees of Davidson Col-
lege met in semi-annual session on February
Wth, at Davidson, following a meeting of
the Executive Committee of the Board, in
Charlotte, N.C. the afternoon before. The
hoard considered the problem of completion
‘ot the New Chambers building ; clected tive
new members to the faculty; appointed a
committee to present plans providing for re-
tirement of professors; and heard the report
of Dr. Robert TH. Kelly relative to Davidson
College in the several phases of its work,

Dr. Kelly, executive secretary of the Asso-
‘ciation of American Colleges, has been mak-
ing an extensive study of the college during
the past few months and his report to the
hoard comprised his estimate of the admin-
istration, the curriculum, the finaneial prob-
lem of the collegg, and student lite and
lactivities, His and for
the future development of Davidson’ College
were received with much interest and a com-

report suggestions

mittee including five trustees from: the board
j aan five members of the faculty was appoint-
Vcd to consider the report further,

Emphasis was laid upon the fact that $125,-
OOO must be Mareh 15th mateh
$75,000) set aside by the General ldueation
Board of New York, means of accelerating
the payment of pledges in the $600,000 cam-

raised by

paign were discussed. Inadequacy of equip-
ment beeause of the non-completion of the
New led the to

authorize President Martin to ereet an addi-

Chambers building hoard
tion to the temporary building, now housing
both the Biology and Physies departments in
very crowded quarters,

The feature of the eleetion of new faculty
members for the coming year was the ap-
pointment of Dr. ©. M. tor 17
(Continued on page 7)

Richards,

“Shadows” and “Ships” are Themes of
Doctor Ogden’s Impressive Services

that he thought that at death man was merely
taken up to perform new duties and service
tor his Lord.

The stecle holds a ship together, Tf it
fails in a storm all is Tost. Man must hold
himself close to God. The word “religion”

means to bind back. A religious man binds
himself fast to his Maker,

The boilers are the real power of the ship.
They are inconspicuously placed in the hold
hand seldom seen by the passengers, but they
furnish the real Men who
would furnish the power for a needy world

motive power,
may have to live as inconspicuously as the
They may be called on to serve the
lowest of humanity, but they will know that
through them God is furnishing real spiritual

boilers.

power. There is a call for boiler-room men,
The thirty men graduating from the Union
Theological Seminary this spring have al-
ready received over two hundred calls be-
tween them.

The bridge trom which-the ship is com-
manded has no crowds on it but the captain
alone stands there. Man must not be gov-
erned by the crowd. He must not listen to
|the excuse, “everybody's doing it.” Chaos
| would result from such ruling. Jesus Christ
alone should stand on the bridge, for He can ~
pilot the human bark through the sea of life
safely and successfully.

{ All but ships of pleasure have ports to
which to sail. A ship without a port is of
no service. A ship always sails from the
port of plenty to the port of need. Thus a
(Continued on page 7)

