Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. 1. C, MARCH 11, 1926

Pawan

No. in

[

Treasurer of Davidson
College Will Speak at

Sunday Vesper Service

Mr. F. J. Jacksae ii is First Local
Speaker

INTEREST IS HIGH

Local Official Knows Problems of
Students Better Than Any
Other Man

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer and professor |
of Davidson College, will be the speaker at |
the “Y” vesper service on next Sunday,
March 14th. The majority of the addresses
made this year have heen. by men who live
away from the college, and have necessarily
been, to a certain extent, away from student
life and its problems. On the other hand,
Mr. Jackson comes into contact with all of
the students and knows the majority of them
personally. During his stay at Davidson he
has kept in touch with campus life and has
been able to see things from the viewpoint
of the students as well as from that of the
faculty. He has been called on from year
to year to speak before the Y. M. C. A. and
his talks have come straight from the should-
er, in a way that appeals to college men.
Whatever his subject may be, Mr. Jackson is
sure to inspire and help those who give him
a hearing next Sunday night.

An effort is now being made to secure Dr.
Howard E. Rondthaler, president of Salem
College for Women, at Winston-Salem, to
address the Y. M. C. A. on March 2lst. Dr.
Rondthaler is the son of Bishap Rondthaler,
who gave a wonderful talk last fall. He has
been to Davidson several times in the last few
years and has always brought messages of
true worth.

A special Easter service is to be arranged
for the Sunday of Junior Speaking. It will
probably be featured by Easter music and a
short talk by a popular preacher, whose name
will be announced later. If the weather is
favorable an open air meeting is planned to
be held on the west side of the library. This

(Continued on page 6)

Dick G Giri is Gliniea, as
Student Body Secretary

Popular Student and and Athlete Wins
in Race for Coveted Student
Office

W. R. Grey, Jr., of Davidson, N. C., was
elected to the position of secretary and treas-
urer of the student body at the election held
last Thursday morning. Grey won in a run-
over election against Mutt Nesbit. These
two men had the largest number of votes
from the first ballot which was held Wed-
nesday morning. Grey won by a fair ma-
jority of votes.

The election to this office shows the es-
teem and respect in which the student body
holds this popular member of the Sophomore
class. Dick was on the first team of the
Wildcat eleven last fall and made his var-
sity letter for the first time. Besides being
on the football team, Dick has been actively
interested in boxing and gave an exhibition
at the gym very recently. He is a member
of the Davidson chapter of the Kappa Sigma |
fraternity.

Mutt Nesbit ran second to Grey in the
election and was defeated by a rather small
margin. Mutt is president of the Sophomore
class as well as being on the varsity football
team, making his letter for the first time last
fall. Nesbit is a member of the Beta Theta |
Pi fraternity. Other men nominated. were,
Camper O’Neal and John Foster.

The election was held to fill the vacancy
left by the withdrawal from school of John
Melton, who had filled the position of secre- !
tary and treasurer during the first part of
his Sophomore year. In the elections last
spring, Grey ran second to Melton in the
balloting. |

THE IDEAL GIRL

Questionnaires will be distributed
among the students of Davidson Fri-
day afternoon by the editorial staff of
The Davidsonian in an attempt to find

the “ideal girl.”

Reports coming out of Spartanburg
that the Converse College girls were
secking the “ideal man” brought forth
the efforts of the local newspaper to
discover a mate for said being.

The questionnaire will in no way be
comparable to that of the Biology
Club of last year, as the staff is an-
xious to find the specific details of an
“ideal girl” rather than the: general
and abstract qualities.

The next issue of The Davidsonian
will carry full details of the affair.

Annapolis Plebes

Wrestle Wildcats

The Davidson College wrestling team left
today for a two-mect trip into Maryland,

On Friday night at 8:00 o'clock they will
meet the Central Y. M. C. A. team of Balti-
more.

They will meet the Navy Plebes on Satur-
day afternoon at 4:00 o'clock.

The men who will make the trip from
Davidson are: Heavyweight, Paul R. Maul-
den; 175 pound class, Harry Vance; 158
pound class, John W. Crinkley; 148 pound
class, W. D. Cox (Capt.) ; 135 pound class,
C. G. Davis; 125 pound class, J. C. Barring-
ton; 115 pound class, J. C. Frierson.

The Davidson team has never met either
of these teams, and they will both be difficult
foes for the Wildcats. They have met the
Navy varsity. several times, losing on each
occasion, The Plebes will make a strong
effort to hold up the record of the varsity

, against Davidson.

According to Commander Weems, of the
Navy, the Central Y. M. C. A. of Baltimore
has the distinction of having had the cham-
pionship of the South Atlantic coast last year.
These two meets will undoubtedly be two of
the hardest cones of the. season.

rc

Three Men are Chosen
to Represent Davidson
in Pittsburg Debate

| Parker, Ratchford and Powell Win
in Preliminaries
TO DEBATE IN APRIL
| Pittsburgh Team to Meet Wildcat

Orators While on Tour Through
Southland

'
| At the preliminary debate held last week
\for the Davidson-Pittsburg debate, three
| members of the team and one alternate were

R. B. Park-

| selected to represent Davidson,
Ratchford, varsity debaters from

er, B. Y.
last year, and fad Powell, were named
C, O'Neal, salternate.

principals, and M.

Speaking on the query, “Resolved, That the
United States Government should control the
coal mines,” the speakers were limited to
seven minutes and were not allowed a_re-
buttal. Besides those mentioned above, W.
T. Covington deserves praise. The exact
date for the debate has not been settled, but
it will come on either the 5th or 7th of April.
The time was originally set for the former
date, but due to the fact that it comes dur-
ing the Easter holidays, an attempt is being
{made to have the contest just after the re-
sumption of scholastic activities.

The preliminaries for the other varsity de-
bates, one held last Tuesday but too late for
publication, and another on the 26th of this

month, will finally decide who will represent
Davidson in forensic activities this spring. |

For the debate of last Tuesday there were
| four as debaters of a year: A. Y,
| Bowie, 1. . D. Wharton, H. L.. Shaw, and C.

W. W tiliarney and one ae of 1925, W.
H. Branch, took part beside a large number

of Sophomores and other upper-classmen, the |
former representing a part of last year’s’

fresh team and the latter a number of lead-
ers in literary society activities, were the
main contenders.

There were two teams selected at this time,
one to represent Davidson against V. M. I.
and the other to debate Sewanee. The query
for both of these was the same : “Resolved,

(Continued on page 3)

PRAISE TO FACULTY

The officials of Davidson College
have finally recognized the work of
The Davidsonian editorial staff on
Monday nights by excusing the men
so employed from morning prayers the
day following.

Such is the recent action announced
hy Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dean of the
College, to the editor-in-chief of the
paper Monday afternoon,

For ‘years the staff has worked
regularly «each Monday night until
much nearer daybreak than midnight
with the prospect of early chapel in a
few hours facing them as they went to
their rooms,

There was much joy in the office
Monday night when Fred Smith made
the announcement.

New Picture Show
to Open Here Soon

The heart of every Davidson student has
heen gladdened recently by the announcement
| that a picture show is coming to town, The

building formerly occupied by — Carter's
Garage has been under repairs for several
weeks, and with the completion of the work
on the building comes the above announce-
ment. The theater will be under the owner-
ship of Mr. Stough, superintendent of the
cotton mills at Cornelius, who plans on giv-
ing only the highest class pictures. Mr.
Stough is a former Davidson man.

Work on the building is not yet complete,
but he plans on opening the show about April
Ist. Only the best pictures willbe shown,
and to that end he has been arranging con-
tracts with some of the best known filming
companies, among them being First National
Pictures and Paramount. There will be two
shows each day, the first at 7:00 o'clock, and
the second show at 9:00 o'clock. On Satur-
, days there will be a Wild West show, or one
of similar nature, in order not to conflict with
the shows now being shown by the Davidson
Y. M. C. A. There will probably be an
afternoon show on Saturday. Final plans

| (Continued on page 2)

Honorary F raternity Council Sponsors First
General Bid-Day as Eight Fraternities Elect

Gastonia Shriners

to be Heard Here

The noted Shrine quartet of Gastonia will
appear in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night,
March 16th, at 8:00 o'clock. The concert is
sponsored jointly by the Senior class and the
Y. M.C. A.

Members of the quartet are: Lacy Adams,
first tenor; D. H. Williams, second tenor ;
P. H. Thompson, baritone, and Herb Glenn,

bass. The quartet will be supplemented by
'Mrs. Williams, a soloist of Southern-wide
reputation.

No musical company of comparable repu-
tation has performed at Davidson in recent
years. The Shrine quartet has toured Can-
ada, California, and various intermediate
points. Among its greatest successes were
its concerts at Los Angeles, at a recent
Shriner convention, where it was featured by
all the leading journals. At Toronto and at
Washington it received wide commendation.

In an appearance at Chapel Hill last fall,
the quartet made a big hit with the Carolina
boys. Each one of the Shriners is a college
man. Mrs. Williams has won recognition in
various appearances in leading Southern
cities. The musical program will be varied
by numerous attractive features which have

(Continued on page 2)

On Wednesday, eight of the honorary fra-
ternities extended their spring bids following
the injunction of the Honorary Fraternity
Council, thereby initiating a uniform bid day
for the first time. Thirty-six bids were
given to members of the three upper classes,
four Seniors, 26 Juniors, and eight Sopho-
mores. By special permission of the Council
Omicron Delta Kappa is allowed to postpone
its election until after the student body elec-
tions. The Biology Club, because of the
tardiness of its fall election, was also granted
an extension of time for this year only.

Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity elected
five members of the Junior class who have
shown original interest or unusual talent in
the literary arts. Sigma Upsilon is one of
the oldest and largest national fraternities in
the Honorary Council. Delta Pi Kappa, lo-
cal journalistic organization, extended invi-
tations to two Juniors and four Sophs who
have rendered noteworthy service for The
Davidsonian.

Eight Juniors were elected to Scabbard
and Blade, feading national military fra-
ternity| These men have demonstrated con-
spicuous ability in the R. O. T. C. unit. The
International Relations Club, member of
large national body, extended bids to two
Juniors and two Sophomores, men who
demonstrated their prowess and interest in

(Continued on page 8) ;

New Rules Govern
Norris Cup Award

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Coun-
cil it was decided that the Norris Trophy
cup would be awarded to a student only
once, The opinion of the Council was that
if a man received the cup in his Sophomore
or Junior year it was very likely that he
would again be the most likely candidate the
next year and that it was only fair that
someone else be given a chance to compete
for it.

This cup is given by the Norris Candy
Company to the best all-round athlete, and
is the permanent property of the man who
receives it. Members of any class are eligi-
ble for it. The cup was last awarded to F.
T. Laird. in 1924, the cup not being given last
year. The winner will be decided by a popu-
lar vote of the student body after baseball
season and the cup will be awarded during
cominencement.

W. P. Cummings, honor man of '21, has
taken his M.A. and Ph.D. in English at
Princeton and is spending the session at
University of Oxford, England. He is ex-

parents, Rev. and Mrs. Cummings, of Japan.

pected to be*in Davidson in June to visit his |

W.R. Story i is Elected
Cheer Leader by Close
Ballot Monday Morning

At an election last Monday morning W. R.
Story, of Marion, N. C., was elected cheer
leader for next year, over C. W. Williams,
Montgomery, Ala. The vote was very
close, being 165 to 170 in Story's favor.

of

Both of these men were elected assistant
cheer leaders last fall over a field of eight
candidates. In the election last fall Wil-
liams led Story by a margin of three votes.
They made their first appearance as assistant
cheer leaders in the Wake Forest game and
the students of Davidson will not soon forget
the excellent work they slid in this game.

Story will call for
pecting to go out for assistant cheer leaders
next year so that they may serve during the
coming baseball season. The election will be
held next fall before the first foothall trip,
as was done this year.

all Sophomores ex-

C. E. T. C. MEETS

The topic for discussion at the Christian
Endeavor Training Class Sunday afternoon
was “The Prayer Meeting Committee.” Bob _
Kell was the leader. The program was a
}continuance of the plan now being followed
by the class of studying a part of the book
“Expert Endeavor” each Sunday afternoon
until every Christian Endeavor
work has been covered. ;

Bob Covington, Tom Preer and EP.
Moye made interesting talks on the subject
under discussion, answering such questions
as these; What should be the characteristics
of the membership of the prayer meeting
committee? . What are its duties? How can
it get more prayers into the prayer meeting ?
After each of these talks the meeting was
thrown open for discussion, and in this way
many helpful suggestions were heard.

phase of

The next deputation from this class will
go to the Young People’s Service League of
Charlotte on April 18th, Other deputations,
to be definitely announced later, are also un-
der consideration.

Converse College Girls

in Search of Ideal Man

Ideal of Girls Must Be Prototype of
Youth, Beauty and Charm

The girls at Converse College have gone
Not content with having
their suspenders suspended and a quarantine
levied on them to protect them from the
masculine menace of the Davidson Glee Club,

and done it again!

they have again asserted their independence
of all trammelled and conventional habits
and ideas.

They have discovered the ideal man! Do-
ing what Diogones, Joan of Are and the
Democratic party have been unable to do,
they have found the perfect man, one who
will fill the right place at both the right and
the wrong times. This important discovery
was not the result of accident nor
chemical or mechaniéal mixture. The man
in question is the composite hope and ideal
of nearly five hundred maidenly hearts that
claim Converse as their alma mater.

The Parley Voo,
own news medium and press agent as well,
instituted a college-wide poll of preferences
to ascertain the exact type of pithecanthropus
erectus, familiarly called man, tor
which the average Converse girl declared a
preference. The following account is the
tabloid result of much girlish sighing and
vain imagining. :

Wofford, nearly five hundred strong, has
already declared itself incapable of filling the
number ten shoes of this mythical being. It
how remains to find him at Davidson. .Sev-
eral members of The Davidsonian staff have
been busy for the past few days with micro-

(Continued on page 6)

of any

which is the college's

or more
