THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4,

1926

5

COLLEGE COMMENT IN
THE WORLD’S GREAT
PAPERS |

“College and the Collegian”
By the Christian Science
Monitor (Boston)

The words “college” and “collegian”
have recently gained in certain forms of
the literature of the day—in daily news-
Papers, in comic magazines and in cur-
rent slang—a significance that is deplored
by college faculties, by the more earnest
students and by the growing portion of
the public which appreciates the value of
higher education. It is unfortunate that
too many people associate “college” only
with baggy trousers, flashy neckties,

|

|
|

Nick Sappenfield

Returns to School.

Nick Sappenfield, former president of the |
student body, who was seriously injured in|
the first football game of the past season,
and who has been recuperating at his home |

jin Concord, has returned to Davidson for

grotesque hats and other eccentricities |

of dress and manner; which a certain
number of students affect just now. If
one looks below the surface, however,
it is possible to see indications that the
manifestations which have given the
words in question their present-day
meaning are not characteristic of the
Majority of young collegians and should
not be allowed to prejudice the public
against institutions of learning,

Without doubt a wave of exaggeration
and extremeness is evident among col-
lege boys and girls at present. But this
tendency in dress and conduct is by no
means confined to them. It is noticeable
in society at large. The great mass of
men and women, however, go about their
daily tasks and enjoyments in quite nor-

mal fashion, slightly, if at all, touched |

or influenced except in their sense of
humor by the extravagant eccentricities
of the flamboyant minority. The same
condition exists in the colleges. The
enormous increase in college attendance
is not caused by a-rush of youth who
hope to wear strange clothes or indulge
in queer conduct. An overwhelming ma-
Jority of the throngs of youth that are
swelling the numbers at American col-
leges are after education, the training of
their best and highest talents.

From the Mississippi Agricultural and
MechanicalCollege comes an official re-
port that a great decrease in physical de-
fects has been noted in examinations ex-
tended over the last decade. At a recent
hearing before trustees of Ohio State
University the witnesses agreed that the
student body at the university has im-
proved morally year by year and is now
at its highest point. It was declared that
the students are “continually, progres-
sively and constructively at work in deal-
ing with their own problems.”

Testimony of captains of industry and |

finance is significant on the point in ques-
tion,
that leaders in business have been seek-
ing out college men for several years
with increasing intensity as the best
material for future managers and execu-
tives. That they find more than bagging
trousers and moaning saxaphones on col-
lege campuses is shown by the fact that
they are contributing thousands of dol-
lars annually to middle western colleges
and universities for specialized work in
research laboratories. An asphalt com-
pany helps toward the study of asphalt
materials. A chemical manufacturer
gives financial aid for study in commer-
cial chemistry. One big producer of
railroad equipment maintains twenty

scholarships for specialized training in
agriculture,

Scholarships and fellowships of this
kind at the University of Wisconsin
amount annually to $21,762, at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota to more than $25,-
000. For study of meat packing processes
at the University of Chicago a gift of
$2,500 a year for three years has been
made. At the University of Illinois 35
of these scholarships covering a wide va-
riety of subjects are provided. At other
Institutions subjects thus encouraged in-
clude fire insurance, merchandising, ad-
Vertising, textile manufacture, mining and
animal industry.

; When the practical leaders of business,
industry and finance give to “college” and
“collegian” the significance implied by
these concrete acts, the general public
can afford to do likewise and to forget
the temporary, superficial meaning em-

Phasized by the thoughtless. and. the
frivolous.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin presented a paper on
“James Barrie,” and Mrs. A. Currie one
on “Oxford’s Poets.”

Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle entertained Fri-
day in honor of Mrs. A. L. Currie, of
Louisville.

the second semester. Nick, although not
graduating this year, will no doubt by his |
return lighten his work for next year. |
His return was accompanied by a rise in|
the 1926 gridiron stock, for by entering |
school again at this time Nick will be eligi- |
ble to be in harness again next year, and
thus one of the smoothest working cogs in
the backfield is assured. His injury at the,
first of last fall was a great handicap to the
team, and his return makes our backfield
prospects for next year the brightest in years.
His classmates regret very much that Nick
will not graduate with them in June, but are
glad that he will be with them the rest of
this year. Nick has a big place on the
campus and his welcome back is hearty and
universal, ;

SENIOR CLASS PLANS FOR
COMMENCEMENT

The opening of the second semester finds
the members of the various Senior class com-
mittees intently working for the completion !
of the plans for Commencement.

Speakers are being considered for the Bac-
calaureate Sermon-and for the annual Y. M.
C. A, address:

A very beautiful design has been submitted
and approved as the cover for the Senior
Class Day exercises. ra

Attention is also being given to the class
mascot selection and to the obtaining of caps

‘and gowns.

The Senior Oratorical contest which comes
at that time gives promise of being of ex-
traordinary merit. The preliminaries come
on the 9th of this month and several of the
forensic artists have signified their intention
of entering the contest. The class of '26 is
fortunate in having so large a number of
men who are interested in this line of work.
There are five varsity debaters and the siv
Junior orators of last year, while several of
the latter are debaters of ability.

It is hoped that the plans will soon have
been completed and that the efforts of the
class can be turned to carrying them into
effect.

CORRECTION!

It has often been said that

fill up space. The true explanation of how
Fat Laws acquired an automobile will now
be given. The greatest error in the last ar-
ticle sems to have been the statement that!
Mr. Laws won the car from his father’s
store. This was far from the facts.

The true story is this: Mr. Laws had oc-}
casion to purchase a suit of clothes from a
certain haberdashery in no way connected |
with his family. This haberdashery, in lieu |
of a method of advertisement had offered a
chance on a beautiftl Buick sedan to any and |
all customers for each dollar of the price of |
their purchase. Mr. Laws received 55 such |
chances. And in a most honest manner the |
chance which won the automobile was one of |
these 55. Mr. Laws was involved in no|
hoax, scandal or embezzlement and this pub- |
lication wishes to retract any erroneous state-
ments which may have been made, concerning |
the acquisition of the car. It also wishes to
beg Mr. Laws’ pardon if in any way his name
was scandalized on account‘of the former
article.

HUNT, ’25, DIES

(Continued from page 1) |
“Popsy” had been ill only a week when |
the cold, grim hand of the reaper reached |
out for him. While his illness was known to
be severe, it was not until that morning that |
a grave turn occurred. His death was a dis- |
tinct shock to the entire community, as well |
as to the numerous students who knew him}
and loved him at Davidson. Funeral serv-
ices were held at his home church in Lexing- |
ton Sunday afternoon, January 24th, at 8100)
p. m. Five Davidson students attended the |
services. These were E. K. Regen, A. M.}
Hillhouse, M. C. Carroll, H. B. Arbuckle, |
Jr., and T. T. Jones. |
While at Davidson “Popsy” was a member |
of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, the Da-
vidson varsity football team, and the “D”
club. He is survived by his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. J. C. Hunt, Jr., and one brother,
Nat, senior at the Lexington High School
and captain of the football team last fall.

CALENDAR FOR THE
WEEK
Thursday, Feb. 4—Phi and Eu Liter-
ary Society meetings, 6:30 p. m.
D. C. Fresh vs. Duke Fresh, 8:00
p. m.
Metro and Pan Literary Societies,
9 :30 p. m.
Friday, Feb. 5—D. C. Wrestling Team
vs. Concord “Y,” 7:15 p. m.
Glee Club Concert, 8:00 p. m.
Saturday, Feb. 6—Basketball—David-
son vs. Guilford, 7:30 p. m.
Picture Show—"Classmates,” 9:00
p. m. ‘
Sunday, Feb. 7—C. E. Training Class,
1:15 p. m.
Ministerial Band, 2:30 p, m.
“Y" Vespers, Mr. J. Stitt Wilson,
6:15 p. m.
Monday, Feb. 8—Court of Control,
7:15 p.m.
Tuesday, Feb. 9—Oratorical Contest,
8:00 p. m.
Wednesday, Feb. 10—Prayer Meeting,
7:30 p. m.

newspapers ,
| print mistakes so that they may correct the

jerrors the next day and have something to!
It has been common knowledge |

Reiterating statements previously made

through this column: We are not in favor
of athletics and athletics alone, but do con-
tend for good students and athletes in the
same combination. That is possible.

at our varsity for proof of that. Not all of

_them, to be sure.

Parks Brown was carried to States-
ville Sunday for an operation for ap-
pendicitis. In spite of complications that
gave promise of developing into some-
thing serious, he is doing well.

Look |

DAVIDSON CAGERS SWAMP
CONCORD 48-15 IN FIRST
GAME AFTER EXAM PERIOD

Anderson Runs Wild by Scoring 17
Points While Laird Makes Twelve
e in Concord

to Davidsonian)

| Concord, N. C., Feb, 6—Davidson Col-
jlege defeated the Concord “Y” team
|here last night 48-15 instead of 30-15 as
‘reported in the morning newspapers.
|The Wildcats were leading Concord 30-
16 at the Glose oft he first half. With
Anderson, shifty Davidson guard, scor-
ing 17 points and Laird accounting for
12 more the Davidson team ran away
with the game with apparent ease.

In the second period Vick scored two
neat shots for Concord and a couple
more of field goals were made, though
| Davidson was away out in the lead.
| The line-up and summary:
| ‘The Wildeats had been off the court
for nearly two weeks on account of ex-
aminations at Davidson, and the smash-
ing victory came as a surprise to local
followers. The score was very near to
that which Davidson rang up on their

(Special

Davidson was minus the services of

Andy Hewlette.
The playing of Harrison was exception-

jal when it is considered that he did not!

iknow he was making the trip until six
o'clock, playing “suicide” ball in the Da-
vidson gymnasium all Tuesday after-
{noon for the practice.

Davidson (48) Concord (15)

own court before the Christmas holidays. ¢

Substitutions : For Davidson—Hud-
gins for Wilson, Goodykontz “for Huie,
Huie for Goodykontz, Goodykontz for
Hudgins, Simpson for Harrison. For
Concord none.

BOOKS WORTH READING

“The Man, Nobody Knows”—Bruce Barton.
A fresh interpretation of the life of Jesus
emphasizing the manhood of the Master as
seen by His disciples. A discovery of cer-
tain characteristics of Jesus so often unem-
phasized, presenting a Christ far more mag-
netic than the Christ depicted in art.
“Towards the Understanding of Jesus”—
Viadmir Simkhovitch.

An historic background of the turbulent
times in which Christ lived, showing Christ’s
reactions to the political views of His day.
“Rome's Fall Reconsidered’—Vladmir Sim-

khovitch.

A. short in the volume entitled
“Towards the Understanding of Jesus.” An
attempt to prove that a lack of rotation of
crops was the direct cause of the fall of

essay

Rome.

“Hay and History’--Vladmir Simkhovitch,
Another short essay in the volume entitled,

“Toward the Understanding of Jesus.” A

unique array of facts to prove that the

greatest economic rvolution of all ages was

the introduction of soil regneration by the

planting of hays and other legumes.

“The Young Man From Jerusalem”—Ballan-
tine.

A summary of the essentials of religion

The General Electric Com-
pany, as of December 3, 1924,
had 37,716 stockholders, of
whom 45 per cent were
women. The average num-
ber of common shares held
by stockholders was 55. In
ownership, policies, past and
present activities, G-E is un-
selfishly dedicatéd to the
cause of electrical progress.

A new series of G-E adver-
tisements showing what elec-
tricity is doing in many
fields will be sent on request.
Ask for booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL

GENERAL ELECTRIC

lHition ose es Tah eee Dick 6 into three points and of ‘Christ's principles
|Laird (C) 12 ----.- LI Easeley 4 into four,
| Wilson 1 -.- -- Denny “The Lord We Love’—Dr, Charles Erdman,
}Anderson 17 .--.-RG <-.-#-.... Harris 5 An inspirational study of certain events in
[HMERHSON: S suuawewols Go6.-aiweu scene Fink the life of Christ and the principles taught.
| |

SLI NPE SEA SLI ie

at 12,000 volts.

Slt Ze

4

This giant hydro-electric unit weighs 750 tons ard consists of a vertical shaft
hydraulic turbine attached to an electiic generator delivering 52,000 kilowatts

Bigger Generators—

Cheaper Electricity

A 70,000 horsepower hydro-electric unit recently installed at
Niagara Falls utilizes the same amount of water as seven
former 5,000-horsepower units, yet does the work of fourteen
such units. And it saves 700,000 tons of coal yearly for the

nation.

As more and still more uses are found for electricity, larger
and more economical generators are installed. At the power
plant, as well as at the consumer’s end, important changes and
startling developments have steadily reduced the cost of
electricity for light, power, and heat.

And wherever electricity has blazed its trail—in towns, cities,
industrial centers, and rural communities—com fort and progress

have come to stay.

Generating and distributing electricity concern the technical
student. But electricity’s application in the betterment of
industry, the professions, and home life concerns every edu-
cated person. ‘Cheap electricity means many startling achieve-
ments today, but countless and unbelievable possibilities

tomorrow.

19pm

YORK
