FOR A BETTER

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON ©

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

Avinnal Staff, Under

Dictatorship of

Don Wharton, Promises New Features

In the 1927 Copy of

Meeting Hall

|

Office Set Up in Old S.A. E. |
; |
|

CONTRACT GIVEN |
New Cover Design Drawn Up—
Senior Section to be Greatly
Enlarged

Having arranged for the use of the room
in Eu Hall which was formerly occupied by
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the Ouips and Cranks
staff for 1927 is now getting under way and
indications point to the publishing of the
best annual in the history of the college.

The room to be used by the staff has been
refinished, the walls plastered, new equip-
ment in the way of tables, desks, cabinets and |
various things, which will aid in publishing |
the book, have been placed there.

Don Wharton, editor-in-chief, states that |
the complete motif has been worked out and
that sections of the dummy are now being |
prepared. He adds that the 1927 Quips and |
Cranks is being constructed along new lines |
with practically no consideration of previous |
publications. Particularly noticeable is the |
change in the Senior ‘section. The plans
provide for the pictures of two men to the
page, allowing much larger pictures and
more space for write-ups than ever before.

The cover, which has been selected, is dif-
ferent from anything ever used at Davidson
and is really a work of art in itself, Whar-
ton said.

Among other additions to the annual is
that of devoting one book in the publication |
to the Faculty and also a section to the Mili-
tary Department. The staff was very for-

Quips and Cranks

ED WILSON

Ed. Wilson,:Chatlotte boy, who appeared in |

the Wildcat line-up last Saturday for the

first time since his return to Davidson, after |

being out of college last year. He starred
on the.’24 Freshman team at quarterback,
and is believed to be one of Younger’s strong-
est candidates’ for that position this year.

Juniors Saleaed:

As Cheer Leaders

Julian Lake and J. L. McGee were re

cent-

tunate in the fact that every man who was
appointed to a position in both the editorial |
and business departments reported back to |
school, although Bernhardt, photographic |
editor, was late in returning. |

Business Manager Williams states that all
the contracts have been awarded for. the |
constructing of the annual. The Charlotte |
Engraving Company will have charge of the |
engraving ; the White Studios, of New York,
recognized east of the Mississippi as the out- |
standing annual photographers, will make the
pictures; and the Queen City Printing Com- |
pany, which, for the past several years, has
printed the West Point Howitzer, a $25,000
publication, will print the Quips and Cranks.
This printing company is handling only the
two annuals mentioned above, this year, and |
the same quality of work which has served |
in past years to make the Howitzer one of |
the leading annuals of the country, has been |
promised the Davidson publication.

The photographers will be here during the |
first week in October to make the individual |

(Continued on page 2)

| ly, chosen by the student body as assist

ant
cheer leaders from a field of cight candidates.

Julian Lake is a member of the Kappa
Alpha fraternity and assistant business man-
The J. L: (Spike)

ager of Davidsonian.

| McGee is a member of the Pyramid Club. |

Hes also in charge of all work done by the
In
the spring the syne body will select one of
these as head cheer leader for the year
1927-1928. ;
Other candidates were L. K. Pritchett, R.
S. Lowrance, Jr., G. F. Houck, J. P. Mc-
Knight, A. F. Burgess, and B. J. Alderman.
The present cheer leader is W. M. Story.
All of these men have been assisting the

Freshmen on the athletic field this year.

Senior leader since the latter part of last
year.
A. M,. (Piggie) Martin, former Presi-

dent of the Davidson College Glée Club
and member of the class of ‘25, is still a
student at the
Seminary.

Louisville Theological

Magazine Staff Prom
. More Complete P

E. D. Witherspoon, who has been working
on the Magazine for several years, was re-
cently chosen business manager of this year’s
publication. The complete staff and plans
in regard to the cover and pages were also
announced by the editor-in-chief, H. M.
Austin.

The Magazine will continue to be called
the Chameleon. This was the name that was
given to it last year by the Blue Pencil chap-
ter of the Sigma Upsilon Honorary Fratern-
ity, when they took over thé publication of
the old Davidson College Magazine. i

In the past only two or three issues have
been published yearly. However, this year
it is certain that four or five issues will be
published, according to the finances of the
Magazine. There not only will be a larger
number of issues, but also will be a greater

— Larger and
ublication This Year

make room for more contributions. Furthcr-
more, there will be a unique cover, design on
each issue. The Cap and Bells departments
is to be discontinued. These several
features and others will be incorporated so
that it will add greatly to the cttractiveress
of the Magazine.

Due to the large number of issues, there
will be room for literary contributions of
every kind. These may come from any
tnember of the student body. New men are

especially urged to contribute. Such con-

new

of the respective departments.

The staff is as follows: J. H. Caligan,
poetry editor; L. D. Wharton, essay. editor ;
W. C. Ogden, short story editor, and J. G.
Wharton, exchange editor:
T. G. McCutcheon, Boyce M

artin, and J. P.

tributions should be turned into the editors |

Initial Tryout of Glee
Club Forecast Big Year

Eighteen Men Are Given Places on
Club After Tryouts Last Week
| — ——

Under the able leadership of J. S. Mae-
Rae, the Glee Club had its initial try-outs last
week, and added 18 new members to its num-
ber. This year, instead of having = Mrs,
Baker, of Charlotte, to help in the organiza-
tion, Mrs. Watkins and Mrs, Daugherty, of
Davidson, are drilling the voices. There
were many of the upper-classmen in the try-
outs, and not so many Freshmen will belong
as did last year,

Atethe end of the trip last spring it was
found that the club had suffered in a financial
way, and plans are being made for a shorter
tour this year, and one that will guarantee
better returns, for the club, with the handi-
cap of a heavy debt incurred, cannot afford to
risk a setback.

on its tour, and At will also make two or three
short trips to nearby towns. After the cool
reception received in Charlotte, no concert
will be given there unless a good guarantee is
given, for on the last visit, the singers looked
out upon empty seats, when it was thought
| their greatest support
| Charlotte.

would come from

The prospects for better Symphony and

|
|
|

| singing high “C,”
| usual,

The North Carolina Collegiate Glee Club |

It is hoped that the club will ,
/cover eastern North Carolina and Virginia |

jmany of the new class, formerly of various
high school orchestras, have already shown
their talent. Inthe voice try-outs one of the | ing his third year on the varsity, and bids | \eaying the score at the end of the first five
new=mensurprised the cluo meinbers Ly | fair to excel his Sne record of past seasons minutes, Davidson 6, Elon 0.

an occurrence that is un- during the present year.

| Association was formed last year, and it is

| expected that some time during the spring
| there will be a meeting of all the state Glee

| Clubs for competitive try-outs, to determine |

| the best club in the state. The Davidson
iclub is one of the charter members, and will

j enter the meet.

| ‘(Continued on page 2)

Davidson Teams Will Be
Weaker Than Last Year

Coach Monk Younger Predicts
Weaker Davidson Teams for
the Coming Year

According to Coach Monk Younger, the
general athletic outlook for Davidson this
year is not as bright as it was last year in
any of the sports. He gives as the reason
for this that the Freshman class last year
failed to produce a single star in any sport,
or any man-to fill the places left vacant by
men-graduating last year. This means. that
every team was weakened by the loss of old
men through graduation, and is unable to get
new strength from last years Freshmen.

The football prospects seem to be better
Laird, Anderson,
Baker, and Vance, were lost from the line,
and Hendrix and*McComb from the back
field. . Wick Black, who is in the hospital
with pheumonia, will probably be out for the
best part of the season and will be missed
from the: backfield also.
the scrubs are coming up and will add new
strength to the team this year.

than in the other sports.

Several men from

Only two men were lost from the basket-
ball team last year, but Coach Monk doesn't
expect to have as good a teain this year as
he turned out last year. Captain Anderson
has not returned to school yet on account of
lan operation for appendicitis, but is expected
to return and lead the Wildcat quintet this
year.
| The baseball team was perhaps hardest
|hit by the loss of letter men, and the team

| this year will not measure up to the one of |

W. S. Woods, ylast year. The six letter men lost are Alford,

| Laird, Oden, Kugler, Vance, and Huie, and

| McKuight-are-to-be-contributing-editors. — + ——-(Continued-on-page-2})————_

+
Y
i

_Leggette Shows Good Form as Davidson
Wildcats Win Listless Game From Elon-

Christians By One-Sided Sc

WADE LEGGETTE

Wade plucky Davidson half-

Leggette,
Jazz orchestras are exceptionally bright, for | back, whose terrific line plunges were the
feature of the Wildcat victory over the Elon

Christians last. Saturday.

Sesqui Committee
Gives Certificate

Leggette is play-

ore of 26-6

Wells Scores First Touchdown
1926 Season

MANY SUBSTITUTES

Englebock Punts Consistently for
_Visitors—McConnell Plays Good
Game at Center

In the opening game of the North Carolina
football season last Saturday — Davidson
whitewashed the Elon Christians 26 to 0.
The game was played before one of the larg-
est opening-day crowds in the history of
Richardson field.

Beside the conspicuously brillant playing
of Captain Lucian Wells and “Count” Leg-
gette, the most outstanding event of the game
was the sureness With which the Wildcats
carried the ball.
during the game, and that one'came in the
last quarter with only two minutes to play.

Only one fumble occurred

The touchdowns were scored on. straight
football, only a few forward passes being
tried by the Davidson quarters. Wells, after
leading the drive down the field in the first
quarter, on an off-tackle drive went through
the Elon team for the first touchdown of the
1926 season: The try for point went wild,

No more scoring was done in the re-
mainder of this half, with the Christians
showing more strength in this period than
in-any other. Substitutions were made tfre-
quently by Coaches Younger and Tilson.

Boch and Engleback, Elon’s quarter and
full, played most conspicuously for the visi-

The Davidsonian has just received notifi- | tors, The latter's punting was excellent, while

cation of the distinctive recognition given it

The recogntion |
comes in the form of a certificate award, in |
which The Davidsontan is commended for its
| conspicuous service in assisting the directors
of International
position to bring the message of the exposi-
tion before the public.

The which
placed on the walls of the new Davidsonian

the Sesqui-Centennial Ix

award, will be framed and |
office on Oak Row, is a beautifully engraved
certificate, and will serve to remind future
members of the staff of the meritorious serv-
ice rendered by the paper in its efforts to
assist in the celebration of the one hundred
and fifty years of American Independence.

The certificate that has been received by
The Davidsonian is an exact dpulicate of the
the
exposition authorities to large metropolitan
newspapers for their aid in the promotion of
the sesqui-centennial celebration.

certificates that have been awarded by

Conrad Frederick Smith, ’26, is an im
portant employee on the Gastonia Daily |
News, and has recently completed a spe- |
cial industrial issue, which was praised
throughout the south.

SAY, MR. ALUMNUS!

Wildcats.

tinued successes.

fill in the blanks, pin a ch

» =Davidson is off to a fine start! Another
New equipment, additional instructors, campus improvements, and an
abundance of good athletic material assures your Alma Mater of a year of con-
You'll be wanting first-hand information of the happenings tv
Jaybirdsville, and The Davidsoniancis ready to serve you. !
for two-fifty to its corner; and drop it in the mail.
The “livest wire on the lll” will keep you posted after that?

HE WHO HESITATES IS LOST—SIGN UP NOW!

Mail this coupon to J. A. McAlpine, Circulation Manager, Box 501, Davidson, N.C.

Boch was the only opposing back who could

| ; ; 4

: : : «by the committee in charge of arrangements | consistently gain.
Each year the Glee Club sponsors a “stunt at the Sesqui-Centennial Exposition, now be-

|night,” to be held about the first week or so jing held at Philadelphia.

In the number of first downs earned the
Wildeats by far outdistanced the Christians,
making 22 two for the Elon
made an additional first and ten on a penalty.

McConnell and Melton, in’ the Davidson
line, were the only other outstanding men in
the McAuley, ot

Felon, occasionally

to visitors,

although Captain
and Dick

break into the limelight with a brilliant play.

game,
Grey would
Grey broke away. for a 15-yard run in the
second half and a touchdown but was called
back off-side. This

the only off-side penalty invoked during the

as Davidson was was
entire game, something unusual for the initial
contest of the season when the players are
expected to be a little nervous.

Lepeette gained ground
than any other back, In the latter part of
the game he would break through the defense

probably more

of the Christians time and again for gains
of 10-or-15- yards. On-two such occasions the
Wildcat halfback went over for touchdowns.

The line-up of the two teams, together with

fa summary and substitutions, follows :

Elon, Position. Davidson.
Alston —-- ». UB 22_. Bohannon
Real ONeS ses eee so oly eee eee Ritchie
Sites pam neene 8 fr € eee ree Meee nee Mitchell

(Continued on page 8)

banner year looms in the offing for the

Tear out this coupon,

