in Editorial Comment of Raleigh Paper

The following article covered the entire
editorial page of the Raleigh News and Ob-
server last Sunday morning. This paper, the
largest in North Carolina, edited by
Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy in
the administration of Woodrow Wilson. Mr.
Daniels is noted for his searching inquity
into the problems of the day, and although it
is not certain that he is the author of the
following comment, its thoroughness suggests
a possibility of that. :

THE WRONG DIRECTION

Nothing is easier than to turn some demo-
cratic handsprings over the efforts of college
upperclassmen to regulate the conduct of
freshmen. Condemnation comes much more
readily than realization of the fact that con-
ditions in our colleges in regard to the fresh-
man are much more satisfactory than they
were a few years ago.

is

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926 7
: ———
F h H ° ° Th hl P b d iC || M QO The regular semi-annual meeting of
reshmen Hazing is Thoroughly Probe OGUCRE WIUSICIANS |i. trustecs of Davidson Collece wil fe
Broadcast W B | held on Wednesday, February 17th. This
bs re *I meeting will be preceded by a meeting of Central Cafeteria
the Executive Committee of the Board in
.y
WRITING A NEW STORY The Davidson College Jazz Orchestra| Charlotte the day before. on the Square
; ‘and the leading quartet of the club A number of important questions will
Many of our readers, particularly fac- broadcasted a highly intqresting PrO-!he brought up for discussion. The na- and
ulty ones, were disappointed last year be- gram over radio station WBT from Char- ture of these cannot be divulged at the
cause our accounts of chapel talks, lec- lotte last Tuesday evening. This is the present time but it is intimated that they
‘tures, and other entertainments were not third time that Davidson musicians have Avilletaveraniim : Wen 9
: , ;. 4 ¢ portant bearing on stu- B
enthusiastic enough in praise. entertained radio fans, as, on the South- dene life here: rown S es auran
We heard our home glee club-story|¢™ tour last year, they were engaged to Sete :
characterized as our best “write-up” of Present selected numbers from WSB in} A large majority of the Board of Trus- 17 S. Tryon St
fie yea, heidentaliy, thee MleWikB oaks in Atlanta, Just before the Christmas | tees are Davidson alumni and their action
count was written before the concert holidays, the local songsters were invited toward ae college ail An oe a
i | cas he Charlotte station, |CePtion they receive here. 1e oard Sy
took place. The reporter therefore had t© broadcast from t ye : . The Best Places to Eat
; s composed of approximately -
nothing definite to say, so he was per- Ten men constituted the orchestra re Ae cis ES Pacis. ae etiey
: ' ; ; on. : E y is sele
mitted to eulogize. when it gave its performance, while D. i
¥ : the members ofthe faculty but they deal
. . ils } ock )» M. Cal-|. % CHARLOTTE : : : N.C
Tt has been definite policy of the Law- G- Wilson, M. M. Lockhart, D. _|with matters which have i he
rentian to be rather objective $n its ac- boun, and J. S. Foster comprised the dcllepe at ree ee io do with t
counts of speeches. No “interesting” or “uartet. Several ofthe students’ were . —

There was a time and that, too, within the
memory of relatively young alumni of col-
leges in North Carolina when hazing was a
vicious practice, sometimes resulting in phy-

sical injuries and at least once in North
Carolina in the death of a freshman so
hazed.

It isn’t fairsto say that even the hazing that
resulted in injuries to the freshman had its
beginning in brutal or criminal instincts.
Much more reasonable is the theory that haz-
ing was the result of an unconscious striving
on the part of the student consciousness
toward self-government. Certainly, where
student government is recognized and estab-
lished on a sound, intelligent basis the irre-
sponsible hazing freshmen notably
absent.

And yet student government in a great
many of our institutions has far to g6. A
mixture of student government and faculty
espionage is probably worse than no regu-
lation. Student government that has not a
democratic basis, that does not lift itself
above child's play, that does not merit and
obtain respect for its functions and obedi-
ence to its decrees is not wise government.

On this sort of basis we should approach
the situation at N. C. State College where
an edict of the “Court of Customs” against
freshmen who did not attend a student “pep
meeting” recently, has come within the spot-
light.

In the first place, it might as well be rec-
ognized that there is a college patriotism, re-
ferred to in college as “college spirit” or
some like term, cherished and cultivated on
the part of enthusiastic collegians. It is this
“college spirit,” this esprit de corps, to which
the college boys look for a solid front against
Opposing institutions in intercollegiate con-
tests:

Those who never attended’ college or who
have been out a number of years, who never
knew or have forgotten the youthful zest of
these “pep meetings,” are apt to underesti-
mate their importance. Yet, confining our-
selves to the college and to the college boy's
viewpoint, these meetings are vital. Attend-
ance upon them almost indicates patriotism
or lack of it.

There is a feeling that a freshman, above
all others, ought to devote himself to the
acquisition of a sound, virile college spirit
as well as academic virtues. He ought to be,
whether a good student or not, certainly a
good citizen of the college community, and
a good citizen ought to show an interest in
college activities. To try to cram college
spirit down his throat—that’s another matter.

Now, as it happened at State College, the
Court of Customs posted this edict which is
self-explanatory :

All freshmen who did not attend the stu-
dent body meeting held in Pullen Hall Tues-
day, January 19, 1926, will be subject to the
following rules, effective Monday, February
1, at 7 a. m., and expiring Thursday, Feb-
ruary 4, at 7:00 p. m..

Freshmen who have handed excuses to the
court and had them passed will be excused.
These names are posted in front of dining
hall.

1. All freshmen shall wear a white ribbon
tied on the upper part of the left arm. Rib-
bon to be one inch wide and two feet long.

2. All freshmen shall walk in gutters and
cut all corners square military fashion.

3. No one wearing the ribbon will be al-
lowed to speak to any person except while
indoors.

4. Ribbons will not be worn with military
‘nniform, ‘but uniform wil{ He worn onty dur-
ing the forenoon of Tuesday, February 2,
and Thursday, February 4. a

Anyone proved guilty of violating these
tules will be subject to the action of the
Court of Customs.

ot 1s

“instructive” or interesting and instruc-
tive” addresses are ever given at Law-
rence—if the copy editor can help it.
Even abjectives as “brilliant,”
La “impressive” and “profound”
grow wearisome with continued use.

such
clever.”

Aspiring undergraduate journalists, un-'
less forbidden to do so, will cover their
lack of something definite to say, with a
flow of delighted appreciation of the lec-
turer's or artist's Fore-seeing
this, the policy of the Lawrentian has
been to favor matter-of-factness and to
spare its readers adjective flooded col-
umns as far as possible. We, have, how-
ever, continually urged our reporters:
“Tf you liked the speech, if it inspired you,
thrilled you, let your ‘readers know it.
Not by putting in a string of adjectives,
but by reporting the talk so completely,
forcefully, and sympathetically that your
readers will think, “What a good speech
that must have been.”

powers.

That method of reporting is the one we
have urged upon our staff. They have
not always succeeded in it—the task is
very difficult for young writers. They
have often succeeded in being only cold

.and stiff. But the Lawrenthian has pre- |

ferred that as the lesser of the two evils.

If in the future, we do experiment with
a spasm of critical reporting, our readers
must remember that unfavorable crit-
icism is also legitimate. Reporters are
not under obligation to be delighted with
every function they report. And if the
restriction of objectiveness is removed, |
the writer has a logical right to express
dissatisfaction as well as satisfaction with
the event he reports. If, however, we
canbe guided by protests expressed last
year against certain signed critical
stories, we conclude that our readers will
not be delighted to have us print the re- |
porter’s personal reaction to every enter-
tainment he covers.—Editorial from The
Lawrenthian, Lawrence College, (Wis.) |

Mrs. A. W. Crawford, of Gresisboro,|

was the guest this week of Mr. and Mrs. |

M. W. McGill. |

might be said that in most cases the fresh- |
men who comply with the decree will not be
greatly humiliated. |

Even so, here is fundamental error in stu- |
dent government, basic error in any sort of |
government, and whether the system is recog-
nized or not it ought to be rooted out. It |
can be done by the students themselves or by |
the students with sympathetic faculty help.

In the first place, this effort at student gov- |
ernment is at fault because it recognizes spe-
cial privileges. Under the rules of this’!
Court of Customs, we are told, freshmen. are
“required,” sophomores are “expected,” Jun-
iors “requested” and Seniors “invited” to
attend mass meetings. Under this sort of
system, the very first lesson in government
the student learns is that laws do not apply
to all alike, and that patriotism is for those
who cannot help themselves.

In the second place, it is at fault because
good citizenship, in college as well as out-|
side of college, does not have its origin in
compulsion. Whether or not a student at-
tends a student function may reasonably be
left to the discretion or the convenience of
the individual student. Discipline is a good
thing, but discipline should: be reasonable.
No stigma should be attached to a man in|
college or out of it because he exercises his,
right to freedom of action.

These two defects ought to be sufficient to
cause the State College students to overkaul:
their regulation, revamp their government !
until it prepares them for the sort of self-|
government they will find outside college
walls instead of erecting conceptions which |
must be rudely and, sometimes, disastrously |

Perhaps there is nothing particularly harm- shattered.
ful about this edict. The punishment meted, The worst thing about this example os
out for failure to attend a college function, student government is that it is headed in|

in itself, is not “cruel and unusual.”

It the wrong direction. : |

fortunate enough to tune in on WBT

during the program and enjoyed hearing
their fellow-students very much.

NONE TOO SMALL

South Carolina, listen to
A negro in that state was recently
lodged in a city jail on a minor charge.
For three days he maintained that he
is 249 years old, was a personal friend of
Christopher Columbus, 345 grand-
children, knew all the Presidents of the
U. S. intimately, and for thirty-seven
years shot deer on the spot where the
State University stands. He was being
held until an investigation could be
made, and later stated that he was “only
fooling.”

Speakingof
this:

has

DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President

R.A.
c. Ww.
A. T. SUMMEBY, Vice-President

Nowadays if a man reaches for his

hip-pocket you know that you are cither

We Want Yeur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE

I. W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
J. B. DOAR, Aeet. Trust Officer
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

going to get shot or get treated.

After the dance

... d pipe
andP.A. S

WHEN you've kicked off the pumps and tossed
the collar on the table, while the music is still
singing in your brain and memories of one
dancing deb in particular crowd your thoughts,
fill your pipe with Prince Albert and light up.
Make it a night of nights.

P. A. is so genuinely friendly. It hits your
smoke-spot in deep center right off the bat.
Doesn’t bite your tongue or parch your throat,
because the Prince Albert process said “nix on
the rough stuff” at the very beginning. Just
cool contentment in every perfect puff.

Don’t put off till tomorrow what you can
smoke today. Get a tidy red tin of P. A. now.
Snap back the hinged lid and,release that won-
derful fragrance. Tamp a load into the bowl
of your jimmy-pipe and light up. Now you’ve
got it... that taste. Say— isn’t that the
goods now?

-PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

©1936, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco
, Winston-Salem, N.C.
t

P.A.
tidy red tins,
pound tin
pound crystal-glass humidors

with

And always with every bit of
bite and parch removed by
the Prince Albert.process.

is sold ev
oun

where in
and half.
umidors, and

sponge-moistener top.

