THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Inquiring Reporter

In selecting a question for the first issue
of the ’26-’27 Davidsonian, the Inquiring Re-
porter thought it most appropriate to ask of
the new men the most evident of their first
impressions. There were ten men interview-
ed, and nine of the ten gave-« the
answer.

same

It seems that the spirit evidenced by the
men of the three upper classes in speaking to
the new men had impressed them more than
any other characteristic of campus life.
Davidson is a school of many traditions, and
it seems that the one named has served more
to make the new men feel at home, that they
are a part now, than any of the many others.
One of the men questioned added that he was
surprised to see the most prominent men of
the. student* body calling the freshmen by
name, ‘and speaking to them as to an old
friend, and not showing the snobbishness
that the leaders of other student bodies had
shown, leading him to. expect the same of
the Davidson men.

If this is their strongest impression, it is
bound to be circulated through their letters,

and will strengthen the name Davidson has
made for itself. If this custom has such an
effect, is it not worth while? Cannot the
older men show their spirit by continuing to
help the new men,.and to make them David-
son men? A bead Pca

DOCTOR MARTIN GIVES

(Continued from page 1)
way as to offer the greatest benefit to the in-
dividual student with special attention being
paid to his native abilities and talents. Un-

Full Text of the President’s Annual Address

Editor’s Note—Below is reprinted the| trash. Keep yourself in a clean, wholesome,
full text of the President’s Annual Ad-| bodily vigor. Either too little or too much
dress before the student body which was | physical exercise is-harmful to your mental
delivered by Dr. W. J. Martin last Mon- | processes. Keep yourself as free as possible
day morning. Many students will find from mental worry; certainly keep down all
| added interest in a review of his words, | anxiety that is not absolutely necessary from
| and a number of members of the student | causes beyond your control. Be temperate
| body will probably want to preserve a/in life-and habits. Do not spend money _be-
| copy of the address. lyond your means. If you are necessarily
| | hard up let it be but an incentive to do your
best work. Foolish extravagance will not

der this system the student with exceptional |
talents and a thorough foundation is per- |
mitted to advance as rapidly as seems ex- |
pedient, and is not forced to drag along} Some of you have given earnest thought
slowly with his less fortunate fellows. This | to this; others have rather hazily considered
system is the ideal of Davidson College, and |it. To some, doubtless, college attendance
will be installed as rapidly as appears wise, | is taken as a routine in their lives and they
according to Dr. Martin. | have accepted the situation without giving
serious attention to it. :

This, the beginning of a new year of study

One Purpose of a College
Education ~

In conclusion, Dr, Martin offered a num-
ber of suggestions along lines that would aid
the students to get the most benefit from |
their various college courses. His address
occupied the major portion of the regular
Monday morning student assémbly, and was
received with interest and enthusiasm by the
students and faculty alike.

some, is an opportune time to consider what
you should accomplish and why and how best
to do it. In a few minutes I wish to suggest
to you certain lines of thought rather than
do your thinking for you.

If I were to ask for an answer to ‘the

The Best--

Vance Hotel

MAGAZINES

DRINKS

SMOKES
CANDIES

Walter Culbreth Co.

question “What is the chief purpose of a
college, education?” 1 should receive from
you varied replies, but it seems to me the
| main purpose is to train you to think. Jf the
| objective of the institution ts not intellectual
it is miscalled a college and had better be
known by another name. There are other
functions, but this is the central and moti-
wating one.

In some measure, all humans are thinking
creatures. Our mental powers and processes
are distinctive, but not all humans think
clearly, connectedly, nor are they capable of

Statesville, N. C.

sustained thinking. Their thinking is shal-

low, superficial, incoherent; short lived. Pos- |

to all and the first year af college work, to|

only run you in debt but destroy your peace
of mind, without which it is impossible to do
your best mental work. Keep your body free
from the soil of sin, the result of which is
a -disturbed and impotent mind. The finest
environment for your best mental activity is
a simple faith in God and in His good
| Providence and a life of conformity to His
will. Observe regular, systematic and tem-
perate habits of living. This applies to your
eating, exercise, recreation and_ sleeping.
Have all your body organs functioning prop-
erly, have a good conscience, void of offense
{toward God and man and you will be the more
able to stress the processes of your mind.

As rapidly as possible, and this applies
|especially to the upper classmen, learn to
| grasp the subject you are studying as a whole
and do not be satisfied to simply know the
bit of lesson assigned you. Make sure that
you know, not so much the facts of your
subject as thé subject itself—that you have
mastered it and can apply it, thus ‘
| that knowledge which is power.”

| There is an educational idea, new to Amer-
‘ica, gradually working its way in our colleges
and universities, We are beginning to “think
not of the course but the student as the unit.”
Heretofore we have been modeling our in-
struction on the basis of the course as the
unit. Courses are mapped, diagramed,, di-

‘achieving ,

. Thurs., Fri., Sat.

For Your Shines and to Have Those
Hats Cleaned and Those
Suits Pressed, Visit .

in only one of its phases—reasoning—where- | student without regard to ability or capacity
by we, by the process of thought, argue, |48 expected to receive it. Spoon feeding is
compare, deduce, distinguish between the real | HIE DMA possibly, even intellectually, up to
ang the false, the true and the imaginary. Jn | certain point, but it only weakens us or
a loose sense and way we all think or reason, deprives us of vigorous development to con-
but the hardest, the most painful thing most tinue the method beyond a certain tender
people can undertake is sustained thought or | mental age. Even some of opr best. high
reasoning, Have you ever tried to think to | Schools are getting away from one phase of
| this, which might be called the ‘Educational

sibly here I am using the faculty of thinking | vided into daily or hourly bits and VEY |

8 East Trade St.

Central Shoe Shine and Hat Cleaning Parlor

Charlotte, N. C.

GREE

COLLEGE.

My

IN ACCORD WITH ESTABLISHED
CUSTOM, FINCHLEY WILL
CONDUCT EXIIBITIONS AT
REGULAR INTERVALS AT YOUR
THE TIME AND

PLACE OF EXHIBITS WILL

BE ANNOUNCED LATER.

CLOTHES HATS SHOES
HABERDAS HERY
AND SPORTSWEAR

CLOTHES TAILORED TO MEASURE

FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
AND MORE

=]
LIXNCG

ibe
CED

the bottom of some problem, balancing cause
and effect and, arraying all the evidence, |
draw a well determined conclusion? There |
is a greatndeal of ignorance in the world, but |
T rather think that our greater curse is shal- |
low, sporadic, untrained reasoning. |

Reasoning is the highest mental process |
and until you have trained yourself to sus- |
tained efforts in this process you have not |
become educated from the intellectual stand- |
point. The attainment to proficiency in this |
is somewhat like learning to plaw. Some one
may lecture to you ‘in learned terms about |
the methods of and reasons for plowing, but |
you will’never learn to plow unless you plow.
You may, and doubtless will, have to mem- |
orize or ascertain certain facts. You should’
know how to guide the mule, how to set your
plowshare, the value‘of having ‘it sharp and |
how to hold’the handles of the plow. But |
all this told you will not make you a good |
plowman unless you: have practiced again |
and again until your muscles are sore and |
your back aches. But, as many of you know, |
by repeated efforts your muscles, your eyes, |
your feet, your hands become accustomed to |
the task and you become’ a master plowman. |
Just so in learning to reason—it is well to |
be told about the process, to be advised and |
directed, to learn and even to memorise cer- |
tain facts and laws, but to become thinkers
you must think and to become reasoners you
must practice reasoning, The reading of your
text, close attention to your teacher, mem- |
orizing of facts and rules are essential, but |
none of these will teach you to think or |
reason unless you practice, continually and |
repeatedly, the art of thinking or reasoning. |
You must form the habit of careful reason- |
ing and develop in yourself the power of |
sustained thought. Try to keep your mind |
on some one subject for an hour, to array its !
facts and reason to a clear conclusion and |
learn how little you. know of that art which |
raises us-above the brute creation and makes
leaders of men.

To accomplish this there are certain at-

served. You must have quiet and entire free-
dom from interruption for as long a period
as is necessary to finish your task or until
relief is demanded through fatigue of the

extraneous matters to intrude and break- your

current of thought. While you need intel-

‘| lectual diversion and variety, you must re-

from from too much light jrtellectual diet.

tendant things that must be carefully ob- |

mind. You must learn to concentrate your |
thought on the subject in hand and not allow |:

connection. It takes time to restore a broken :

Lock-step.” I refer to the grouping of stu-
dents of the most varied abilities in a class
and requiring all to keep the same pace. Jt
is ruinous to the alert, well endowed young
student through teaching him slovenly habits
of work and thought and equally unfair. to
the slow worker in demanding more of him
than God has given him ability :to do; The
harmfulness of this practice applies. to what
I have called the spoon feeding stage but
especially and notably to the upper years of
a college course, when spoon feeding should
cease, and at least, the reasonably good stu-
dent be given a subject to study rather than
lessons. This demands a much more inti-
mate and personal relation between teacher

and student than is attained or is possible
under our system of formal classes and class
It is recognized that it is a |
more expensive educational process, but it is |
proven, I believe, that it turns out more and |
better thinkers and is worth far more than |

assignments.

it costs.

“Education ts measured by the character,
energy and ambition which the student de-
velops; and, correspondingly, the gbility of
a teacher is judged not merely by his con-
tributions to knowledge, but by the inspira-
tional and energising influence of his teach-
| ing.” This will require a more continuously
| intimate’ relation between teacher and pupil—

not so much in reciting and hearing recita- ;

tions as in the discussion of the subject and
the training of the student in developing
through his reasoning faculties his own ideas
and thoughts on the subject grasped as a
whole, and the clear and logical expression
of those ideas.

I should like to suggest this idea to stu-
dents and teachers of Davidson. In practice
it will prove expensive, doubtless, but through
perhaps some sacrifice, in hard, but most in-
teresting work, I believe it is possible for us,
ina measure at least, to put the idea into
practical application in certain of our de-
partments. Nothing can be accomplished,
however, without the hearty co-operation of
the student in earnest work under such fa-
vorable conditions as I have suggested’ above,
j with the safeguards he alone can assure him-
| self of, that he may be free to do his best
, work under the best possible conditions.
| If there is any virue in these things, think
on them!

(ase Seenwncnnecerrrrs s
| FELLOW‘!
You’ll always find a well- }t

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

TIIIII III rrr

IMPERIAL

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MILTON

x

u

wv)
—
m
m
| pe

DORIS KENYON

COMING MONDAY
COLLEEN. MOORE in

“It Must be Love”

a larger measure of seasoning than you do of

fruit and flour. Do.not clog your mind with

CREDENZA, $300.00

The New
OR | AO

'

VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

~~ 913 N, Tryon St.” ~Charlotte, N77.

PHONIC

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

~MUSIC STORE

D---
