THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

il

College Medical Staff
Has Been Working Here

With Boys Many Years

All Sides of Student Life Observed
in Eighteen Years Service

Back in the year, 1908, when the enrollment
of Davidson College was 150 students, Dr.
J. W. MacConnell was appointed as college
physician and Mrs. A. B. Robson as college
nurse. Today, 18 years later, the enrollment
of the college is 600 students, and Dr. Mac-
Connell and Mrs, Robson are still acting in
the same capacities, with only intermittent
interruptions during the intervening years.

Two thousand or more students have en-
tered Davidson during this period of time,
and of this number there are but a small
minority that have not or did not visit the
college infirmary during the time they were
at Davidson, coming in contact with Dr.
MacConnell and Mrs. Robson for a brief
period at least.

Of the 2,500 students estimated to have
entered Davidson since 1908, half of them
have spent a brief time as the house guest
of the infirmary. This conclusion is based
upon the fact that during the school year
1924-1925, 370 of the 600 students enrolled
at Davidson were confined to the infirmary
for a brief time.

There are no two people during the past
18 years who are remembered more than Dr.
MacConnell’and Mrs. Robson, it is believed.
They are true friends of the students, listen-
ing oftentimes to the plaintive, often dis-
guised pleas of the students relative to their
ailments. When Christmas time comes the
mails contain a bevy of Christmas greetings
for both. Last Christmas Mrs. Robson re-
ceived hundreds of such missives, some of
them from students graduated from Davidson
15 years ago.

The unending line of students linked to-
gether from a sum total of the sick calls for
these many years has afforded each one a
splendid opportunity to study human nature,
and both Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson
relate many stories, anecdotes and humorous
skits of their contact with the students.

“The students ofentimes think they're pull-
ing something over on us, and perhaps leave
the infirmary with a smile, but we know
when a ian is really sick,” said Dr. MacCon-
nell, adding, “but we humor them sometimes.”

Some few students are known to be chronic
patronizers of the infirmary at almost every
sick call, and the impression is given that
these students are “riding” the doctor. But
that is only conjecture. “There are four
men in Davidson College today,” said Dr.
MacConnell, “who invariably report. Tt has
become such a habit that oftentimes [ step
outside my office and ask for them. But
these are men that ought not to be here They
possess hoth mental and physical hindrances.
There is nothing to do but excuse them.”
He picked out other men who have reported
and draw equally as enlightening conclusions
about them,

But the most interesting conyerser on
human nature of students is Mrs. Robson,
who comes in close contact with the students
when they are confined. “I.ct a student stay
in the infirmary four days and I can tell you
his whole family history, what his home

‘ training has been and what he will amount
to,” she has emphatically declared.

She can prove it, too. Several years ago
a student entered Davidson and was unusually
popular with fraternities. He was confined ,
in the infirmary and during this time Mrs.
Robson made the remark that she believed he
was a boy who would not stick. Her proph-
ecy came true.

Another striking illustration is afforded by:
a 15-minute conversation she had with one
student. When Dr. MacConnell entered a
few minutes later, she declared to him that
that boy would not be at Davidson three
months. “You shouldn't be so hard’ on the
boy after such a brief conversation,” said
Dr. MacConnell. But she was right. In-
side oi three months he had left Davidson.

Mrs. Robson has added her bit to the
“making” of some of the students at David-
son. Knowing that a certain student had a
fairly good average for his freshman year,
she told him one day that there was no reason
why he should not make Phi Beta Kappa
and wear a key of that coveted fraternity. |
He heeded her advice, made the honor roll
two years and won the key. «After the
initiation ceremony was over he came to the |
infirmary, put his arms around Mrs. Robson,
kissed her and told her that the Phi Beta
Kappa key was hers, for she had been the)
cause of his winning it. He called his mother
on the telephone and told her the part Mrs,
Robson had played.

She does not-pose as a speaker but every
four years she makes a speech before the |
students at the Y. M. C. A. Mother’s Day)
service. It is the same talk that she has;

cent years for this year.

past.

We expect you Alumni.

ATTENTION ALUMNI!

The class of ’26 is planning the biggest Commencement of re-
Several novel features which will add
color and originality to the graduating program are planned. We
realize that many of the Commencements of the past have been
dull and formal with no special attraction for either students or
visitors. We, however, see no reson wh y the Commencement
season should not attract large numbers of alumni annually as it
does at most of the other colleges with rich traditions from the

We then most heartily invite all the alumni to join us on the
thirteenth of May in giving our Alma M a t e r Commencement
worthy of a cherished place in our memories. An old pal—a fav-
orite professor approaching hoary old age,—certain spots inti-
mately connected with the most hallowed associations of. college
boys—why not visit them “just once more for old times sake?”

ROLAND PARKER,
President Class 1926

been giving for some time, with a few addi-
tions each year, and a few alterations.

The combination of Dr. MacConnell and
Mrs. Robson is still working at Davidson
today, but the possibility dissolution
disclosed in the fact that Mrs. Robson is go-
ing to build a home in Davidson. She has
Charles Robson, who teaches at
the University of North Carolina, and Dr.
George Robson, who is doing intern work at
a Philadelphia, hospital.

Dr.
the service of the college for some time to
come. He is rated as one of the leading
physicians of the South, and ranks high as
a medical officer in the army, carrying the
title of colonel.. He has been made com-
mander of general hospital No. 95, located
at Columbia, S. C., which is a government
hospital to be used in case of emergency.

of is

two sons,

MacConnell will perhaps remain in

DAVIDSON PLAYERS AID

(Continued from page 9)
the leading part, w as assisted by Linton Deck,
Frank Wilkinson, and Misses

and Elizabeth Thompson. Professor and
Mrs. E. J. Erwin accompanied as chaperones.

The program was one that included both
popular, jazz, comedy and semi-serious num-
bers. The first part included a number of
solos and choruses, quartets and other spe-
cial musical selections. Watt McCain, ’24,
who now lives in Lexington, was one of the
shining lights of the musical program. A
well trained chorus of pretty girls did an
excellent exhibition of the ever-popular
Charleston. After the play which took up
the third part of the program, a mock trial
was held by some of the most prominent
citizens of the town. Although it was pon-
derous as lawyers’ talk itself jit was scream-

Ruth Erwin

Glee Club Appears
at Gastonia High

Tuesday evening the
Glee Club appeared

Davidson College

in Gastonia under

the auspices of the Parent Teachers’ As
sociation of the Gastonia High School
An excellent performance was given at
the High School auditorium, A) large
crowd was present and declared the per
formance a great success.

The club left Davidson Tuesday after-

noon and returned Tuesdayshight after
the..performance. Practically all the
members of the club made the trip who
were with the club on the tour, How-
ever the presence of a few members on

the sick list was missed greatly. With”
a few additions, the club presented the |
same program that was given on the

southern tour recently completed.

The quartette especially in top-
notch form as it sang several days last
week at the Imperial Theatre, adding a

was

few of the latest song hits to its re-
pertoire.

The Glee Club has just recently re-
turned from a tour of the Southland
where it was received in all the cities in
which it played most) enthusiastically.
While on the trip, the club journeyed to
Spartanburg, Gainesville, Atlanta, De-
catur and Greenville. A probable trip

has been arranged for the club to go to
Concord some time in the near future.
After this trip a tentative trip is being
planned to Lincolnton and Lexington.

ingly funny. The jury
Kiwanians and the Rotarians who sponsored
the performance.

was composed of

Ideal Man Chosen
For Fair Visitors

This story does not pertain to a horse
but to a man. We seek to find the ideal |
the Junior Speaking girl. The |
following is a“composite pick of all the!
Massive and Appollos who hail |
j irom the class of ’27.

man for

brutes

Height—3 feet.

Sex- Mail.

Color—Not yellow. |
Hair—Two or three.

KE ves—Black and blue.
Neck—Clean.

| Hands—Poker anywhere.
Slender or robust—No bust.
Feet-—St. Bernrd’s.
Teeth—False.
Ears-—-Cauliflower.

Trousers WKnickerbockers a la mode.
May Breath,

Tale.

Cosmetics Listerine,

Mennens

Socks--Let “em sag,
| Shirt We hope so.
Ties Necking.
Nose Phantom of the Opera.
Profile Corrugated.
If the above gentleman had any worse

construetion all of the
their

fair visitors would
exit on the spot
so we forbear to print some of his other
characteristics which were submitted.
There will little difficulty in’ finding
aonumber of gentlemen on the campus
to fulfill the qualifications. Any-
thinking that he can qualify as an
applicant for this position may obtain en-
through the Ugly Man
Ageney of the David's Onion,

make decease or

he

above

one

gagements

‘Quartet Sings at
Queen City Theatre

Serving as an additional feature on the
program of the Imperial Theater in Char-
lotte for three days during the past week,
the quartette of the Glee Club received
much favorable comment on their’ pre-
formance. The group of musicians were

G. Wilson, J. S. Foster, W. O. Green,
and D. M. Calhoun, the regular of the
quartette of the club

The men sang songs
feature picture,
starring Wallace

appropriate to the
“Behind the Front,”
Berry. This war cine-
ma has proved to be one ofethe biggest
hits-in a humorous line, of the present
The quartette, appeared at the
two night shows of the Imperial, and
will sing at the picture house in
Mooresville. ©

season,

also

OLE GEORGIA

History of Famous
Dormitory Related

The above is a picture of Georgia Dor-
formally the center of student
at Davidson, and the supreme
of the campus. It has housed
finest products of Davidson College
prominent Southerners
among its former inhabitants.

At the time of its construction, Rumple
and Watts the suitable dor-
Mitories on the campus and were entirely
the The
Synod of Georgia launched a campaign
and raised the money for its construe-
tion, At the time of its building it was
considered the aeme of dormitory
struction, Its Special feature was run-
ning water in every

mitory,
activity
domicile
the
and

many were

were only

inadequate for college needs.

cone

room.
that time of

construction

Since dormitories
Modern have
which have antiquated old Georgia. The
New Watts, East and Watts are con-
sidered the best dormitories on the hill
at the time. Nevertheless
Georgia houses majority the
campus leaders. These are too numerous
to write detail but three Phi Beta
Kappa members, four members of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, five student council-
men, the president of the Y, M. C. A. and
many of the Senior class are included in
their numbers. From the above it can
be concluded that Georgia still remains
Be supreme archon of dormitories.

more

been Duilt

present

still a of

in

Interesting Relic Left
_ of Old Medical School

| Remains of Boiling V Vat Lies Below
Athletic Field

| An interesting relic of the Davidson of a
It is almost
| the only remains of the medical school which
was here, and which so many of the leading
doctors of the South attended. It lies south
‘of the athletic field, half-way between it and
ithe home of Mayor Hamilton. Only about

four feet wide and cight feet long, with the

edges broken off and fallen, it would be a
| sorry spectacle were it not for the’ touches
| which imagination give it. Who knows how

{generation ago is the boiling vat.

many bodies have been boiled there, how
many flesh-bare skeletons have been taken
out after a day or two of cooking. Filled

first with alcohol, it was loaded with as many
as three corpses, which were then boiled so
that skeletons could be secured. The dis-
secting which was it, torn
down when Davidson decided to abolish the
post-graduate work in medicine. All its
i bricks have been removed so that no trace
of it remains, but the’vat seems not to have
| been touched. Years from now all memory
fof the medical college will probably be for-
| gotten, and this small mound of bricks will be
fall that is left of the time when medicine
| rivalled theology here.

{ It has been several years since the medical
| department was done away with, but while
it was here, it ranked with the best in this
part of the country. As has been said, many
distinguished doctors graduated from this
school, and the medical professors here were
of the best. In one sense, it seems a shame
|that the medical school had to be given up,

house, by was

| but the authorities thought it best to special-

ize in one line, namely, theology, and to lead
|in that department, as Davidson has done for
| many years.
