4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press |

Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Liveat Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

SEY i

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year |

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

.-.-Editor-in-Chief

HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR oe
_..-Business Manager

VERNON S. BROYLES...

EDITORIAL STAFF
s Ce .--Managing
-Assistant Managing
_Assistant Managing

ScosccuscsageA thetic,

Associate
ssociate

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Fditor
i Editor
-Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
istant Business Manager
ant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
.-Circulation Manager
Srrcsctuseesusicsucccstces Service Manager

E

M. P. WFO
JULIAN LAKE
J. A. McALPINE...
W. L. ALBRIGHT...
R. S. ABERNETHY

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. W. S. GORDON |
C. C. MURCHISON, SS HEGEL MOSES Aas
W. H. ALLISON DEN OLS eaceay
H. M. AUSTIN R. H. McILWAINE

J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW ‘A, M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON J. G. WHARTON
W. T. DAVIS B. WILSON |
- |
EDITORIAL |.
The editorial staff of The Davidsonian

wishes to publicly express their deep appre- |
ciation of the efforts of Miss Cornelia Shaw,
the college librarian, in improving the con-
ditions and appearances at the office of the
publication. Through Miss Shaw’s ‘interest
and kindness. The Davidsonian office has been
changed from an unsightly “hole” to a very
comfortable and attractive office. We are
very grateful to her for her interest and
loyalty!
D

With this issue, The Dazvidsonian closes
shop for the present term. It’s-work for the
year completed, the publication shall now |
rest until next fall on its laurels—provided, |
it possesses such.

MODERN YOUTH DEFENDED

Following the recent innovation of the
International Council of Religious Educa-
tion of allowing youthful delegates to con- |
duct one of its all-day convention sessions,
there has sprung up in many sections of the
nation a sturdy reaction against the modern
conception of youth as a gay and giddy
crowd of jazz-mad hoodlums, “hell bent for
destruction.” In place of this awful picture
of purposelessness, there has been. painted
within the past few days a new picture of
modern youth—a picture in which the
“flaming youth of today,” commonly con-
ceded to possess no virtue other than a bold
disrespect for conventions, is shown as. the
champion of religion, the nucleus around
which our elders are building their hopes for
the future.

The first step in the new reactionary
movement was made when a score of speak-
ers at, thggannual convention of the Inter- |
national a of Religious Education; held: |
in Birminglfam, Ala., recently, rose to their
feet in defense of youth, and in a forcible
manner destroyed the false conception of
youth that has prevailed during the past few
years, There was no room for conjecture as
to the opinion of Mrs. Grace Sloan Overton,
of Chicago, one of the speakers, who loudly
denied the the fact that the girl of today is
immoral because she is unconventional, and
declared that the modern girl and boy is
more permanently attractive because of
higher intellectual and spiritual levels, rath-
er than the fragile attraction of physical
loveliness. Wholesome religious ideals and
a desire for a demonstrable creed which may
_ be judged less in terms of profession than_.
in terms of action were attributed to the
youth of today by such eminent speakers as
Dr. Edmund D. Soper, dean of religion at
Duke University, and Mr. Stanley High, of
New York City.

Then came Biship William T. Manning,
Episcopal bishop of New York, .and Paul
Reiger, prominent San Francisco rotarian,
both of whom championed the cause of
modern youth. Bishop Manning seemed

- elated that youth was unwilling to accept
old doctrines without an explanation, and
that the boys and girls of today were assert-
ing rather than hiding their desires. He re-

minded his associates, who were the young

folks of yesterday, that they were also sin-
cerely. disturbed by the new pulsations of
40 or 50 years ago. Modern lawlessness, he
asserted, was due to the adults rather than
to the young people, and he steadily main-
tained that modern youth is “singularly
responsive to noble ideals.”

Paul Reiger, prominent boys worker of |

San Francisco, spoke to a group of Ashe-
ville Rotarians a few days ago, and insisted
that “the life of the youth of today is better

than it ever was and is growing still better.” |

And 500 Rotarians and their wives greeted
this statement with applause.

With this reactionary movement well un-
der way, youth faces a wonderful opportu-

nity to demonstrate to the world its qual- |

ities of leadership. There are.many destruc-
tive agencies at work in an effort to de-
moralize youth—but with the stamina that
has been recently attributed to youth, it
seems almost a certainty that the young
people of today will take serious stock: of
their duties in in life, and will respond with
a will to serve wid a mind full of capabil-
ities. The torch has been thrown to the
young people, and it is the fervent hope of
such friends of youth as Dr. Manning and
Paul Reider that its light may be undimmed.

A FRESH CRISIS

Mr. Parker’s recent open-forum article,
lamenting the present form of freshman
control, has attracted considerable com-
ment on the campus in regard to this very
vital matter. Discussions among various
groups of students have usually ended in an
agreement that the present system has fail-
ed utterly to regulate and control the new
students in such a way as to instill in them
the proper respect for Davidson traditions
and the much-to-be-desired “Wildcat spirit.”
These discussions have for the most part,
however, ended exactly where they have
started—with no remedy or solution for the
problem that seems to confront’ Davidson
students.

Only one feasible plan has yet been sug-
gested and that has met with thoughtful op-
position, The suggested plan would require
freshmén entering Davidson to arrive and
register at the college two or three days
previous to the arrival of the upperclassmen.
During the two or three days in which the
freshmen were alone on the campus, they
would be under strict faculty supervision,
and would be required to attend lectures,
and classes that might be arranged for them.
These lectures and classes would be devoted
to informing the new men of Davidson tra-
ditions, telling them what would be expected
of them duringthe year, outlining to them
new methods of study, and finally in explain-
ing our unique honor system and inculcating
in them a desire to be true sons of Davidson.

Certainly any plan which would insure the
freshmen of instruction as to proper meth-
ods of study alone, would warrant at least a
trial. How many freshmen enter Davidson
and drop out within a few months, simply
because they have never been taught cor-
rect methods of study? In addition, there
is the advantage to be enjoyed of having the
freshmen know from the very start what is
to be expected of them, and just what the
constitution of their student government al-
lows and forbids. At least one regrettable

instance during the past year stands out as_

an eminent witness to the fact that under
the present system freshmen unconsciously
violate their constitution, simply because
they have never had it explained to them.
Members of the faculty and leading stu-
dents would conduct these classes and de-
liver the necessary lectures; and in the eve-
nings special entertainments would be ar-
ranged for the new men. The advantages
of such a system have been definitely dem-

onstrated by its trial at such institutions as

Emory University and William and Mary.

The chief source of opposition lies in the
fact that such a system would prolong ‘the
college year, that it would call for undesired
faculty interference in the disciplining of the
new men, and finally that it would supposed-
ly fail to remedy the evils that exist today.
It has also been pointed out by opponents of
the proposed system that such a plan would
really make conditions much worse, in view
of the fact that freshmen arriving at the col-
lege, would be filled with idealistic pictures
of Davidson student-life, only to find after
the arrival of the upperclassmen that it was
all a fanciful dream.

There seems to be no reason, however, for
new men to be led to believe that conditions
are any better than they really are. Instead,
it would seem much more advisable to pic-
ture to them actual, conditions and secure
from them a willingtiess to help remedy the
undesirable elements of campus life.

No action has ben taken by any governing
or regulatory body on -this suggestion. It
has been merely suggested in informal dis-
cussions, but on its face it seems to possess
many desirable qualities. Its opponents have
pointed out certain fallacies that deserve

Open Forum

BOTTLED IN BOND
In attacking the liquor question the United
States started a long war indeed, and one whose
outcome will prove of enormous economic value
to the world.
No one can question the fact that outlawing the
saloon as a center of social degradation and moral

corruption (was indeed a service to humanity.

This, prohibition has done rather successfully; no |

matter how how many insincere political wires
were pulled. We are deeply indebted to the tem-
perance movement for this contribution; but let
us not lose all judgment-and hand over our men-
tal mathinery to them because they have driven
out the open saloon.

The bootlegger may not have some of the at-
tractive, seductive qualities of the bright lights,
and giddy music of the bar room; but he has out-
standing features that, if they do not outweigh, at
least equal the vices of the saloon. But this prob-
lem has been discussed and rediscussed. At least
this shows that conditions are not perfect.

The plan sugegsted by many that "light wines
and beers” should be brought back is obviously
no solution. It would be mereky an opportunity
for the return of the old regime.

What, then, shall we do? The past is un-
thinkable, the present is unbearable, and the sug-
gestion of lighter beverages cannot appeal to
those who think the problem to its logical con-

clusion. Suggestions seem few and most of them |

are highly impractical.

The only attempted solution that seems at all
workable at present is governmental control of all
alcoholic beverages.

By this system a voting citizen in good standing |
“could get at the first of the month a permission

slip to get a stated amount of liquor from the
government dispensary. For this he would pay a
price. that would be must below the bootlegger’s
highway robbery. It has been estimated that the
government could own and operate distilleries and
distribution points at a profit and sell the pro-
duction at one-fourth the average price of boot-
legged poison.

This is not a perfect system but at the least it
would have these advantages: (a) it would under-
sell the bootlegger and drive him out of business,
(b) it would not bring back the open saloon, (c)
it would be a source of income instead of a con-
stant drain on the government, (d) it would avoid
the huidreds of deaths caused annually by poison-
ous liquor, (e) it’ would control the supply. and
consumption of intoxicants, (f) it would keep the
younger generation from much of its permiscuous
drinking, and (g) finally it would change the at
titude of hostility toward the law which is so

broadly scattered today.
W. C. O.

,

consideration, and their arguments !-are
worthwhile. But, some new system is need-
ed—and this is the only desirable oie that
has been suggested to date.

Minor Chords.

MOON MADNESS
Under the light of the Northern Star,
Where the Ice King blows his breath from afar,
And the cold like the grip of a ruthless hand
Keeps a vigil like death o'er a wind-swept land,

The moon rides low over pine-clad hills

As the long, white slopes its bright tight fills.
Like a galleon of old on dark purple seas,
It sails through the shadows of dim fir trees.

From the shadows vague, a dark form creeps

To the crest of the hill where the white snow sleeps,
And the wolf, like a monk at evening prayers

Moans @ plaintive cry to the still night air.

From hill to white hill the echoes long ring

To join the sad notes of the trees whisperings.
It echoes afar o'er the ice and the snow

Till returned by another from the valley below,

‘Tis the fierce cry of mating, of primeval love
That reigns in the North with a cold sky above.
Like the dim, pent-up voices from ages long past

It steals through the cold*of the winter's cruel blast.

As he howls a lithe figure creeps up to his side

To fawn in submission—to answer with pride.

And the long cries are softened to whines of delight
As they stand there together in the bleak arctic night.

He the hunter, she the killer, as they stand there apart

But the passion of love fills their fierce savage hearts.

And they love there—as lovers have done since the
dawn :

Of the world, till the star-light was gone.

The way of the wild, in their ears was no sound

Save the patter of fect on the hard-frosen ground.

When the moon left the sey for a star-blasened height,

It shone down on two lovers running swift thru the
night. —C. F.S.

DURING ALL these pretty

DAYS WHEN the sun shines
er DOWN THROUGH the trees,
‘ MAKING LONG shadows

ON THE SOFT green grass
BELOW YOUR feet and
MAKING YOU just glad
THAT YOU ARE alive to
BE ABLE TO enjoy the beauty
OF NATURE, DON’T you wonder
HOW A MAN’S fancy can keep
FROM TURNING to thoughts
OF LOVE?
IN TAKING A little stroll
AROUND THE edge of the
CAMPUS IN the moonlight
LAST SUNDAY about nine
O'CLOCK WE heard low
VOICES IN THE distance,
AND UPON drawing closer
DISCOVERED TO our
AMAZEMENT THAT it was
NOT A YOUNG couple out
ON ONE OF the senior
BENCHES enjoying the
MOONLIT earth, but
IT WAS TWO students—
MEN WHO HAD had
GIRL FRIENDS up for
THE PURPOSE of helping
THEM ENJOY the Junior
HOLIDAYS
NOT WISHING to break in
UPON THEIR fiesta we
CHANGED OUR direction and
HEADED FOR another part of
THE CAMPUS, for these
MEN’S FANCIES were turned to
THOUGHTS OF love, and each
WAS ENDEAVORING to tell the
OTHER THAT his girl was the
ONLY ONE.
WE CONTINUED our little jaunt
TRYING TO find a nice little
PLACE WHERE we could park
A WHILE AND shoot a little
BULL ABOUT this and that.
ABOUT AN hour later we
CHANCED TO take the same
TRIP AROUND the moonlit
WALKS, AND when we again
CAME TO THE spot where we
HAD SEEN OUR college-mates
WE WERE SURPRISED to find
THEM THERE still talking
ABOUT GIRLS and girls and
GIRLS. SO we just somehow
FIGURED IT out that maybe
BARNUM WAS right after all.
SPRING IS that time of the
YEAR WHEN THE gallant young
SWAIN WILL be dreaming so
MUCH THAT he will unknowingly
POUR ZIPP IN his coffee,
THINKING IT IS milk, or will aA
TRY TO FILL his fountain
PEN WITH some of that
AMBER COLORED fluid which
THE DOCTOR had prescribed
FOR THAT COUGH which was
INVENTED FOR the purpose of
GETTING OUT of a few classes
ON AN ESPECIALLY hard day,
BUT AFTER ALL we maintain that
IN THE SPRING a man’s fancy
LIGHTLY TURNS, and turns,
AND TURNS. One of our
CONTEMPORARIES holds that
THIS IS TRUE not only in
THE SPRING, but whenever
MAN’S FANCY has a chance to
TURN, WHICH IS often if he
IS PRIVILEGED to live in
CIVILIZATION. BUT if he is
DESTINED TO spend the four
BEST YEARS of his existence
BACK IN the country where
NEWS IS history before it
REACHES US we believe
THAT A DAVIDSON man
IS FORTUNATE if his
FANCY IS able to turn
AT ALL.
WE THANK you.

—BEAU MAC.

A good way to see if a man is drunk:

Ask him to sing “Who Sells Shoe Strings for
the Shoe String Seller’s Son When the Shoe
String Seller’s Busy Selling Shoe Strings?”

—GEE MACK.
