16 Pages
Today

JUNIOR WEEK--ALUMNI

Tue DAVI

Vol. XIII

FOR A BET

TER DA

ISSUE

SONIAN

VIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1926

Twelfth

Anniversary

No. 25,7

Junior Wee

PROMINENT |

Juniors Have Arranged
Extraordinary Program
of Pleasure and Mirth

No Plans Have Been Spared by
Juniors

PROGRAM COMPLETE

Entertainment at the Gymnasium
Will be Climax to Week of
Enjoyment

“Junior Week,” for many years the para-
mount social event of the year at Davidson,
promises this season to be the most extraor-
dinary combination of joy and mirth that
local students have ever enjoyed. Plans
have been completed by a special committee
of the Junior class, under the direction of
Harllee Branch, Jr., and the program goes
far beyond the fondest expectations of the
most optimistic students.

Opening with the Junior Oratorical con-
test in Shearer Hall on Thursday night, the
schedule includes every conceivable form of
outdoor and indoor entertainment. No pains
have been spared by. the Juniors and their
special committee to make the week one of
unparalleled merriment.

Even as early as Thursday afternoon, the
trains and busses had begun to bring to Da-
vidson large numbers of visitors for the oc-
casion. Early calculations justify the belief
that one of the largest contingents of South-
ern beauties, that has ever gathered at Da-
vidson, will be present for the festivities this
week, Girls from all over the sunny south-
land are expected to attend the “Junior
Week” celebration as guests of Davidson
students.

The Glee club concert, which is to be pre-
sented in Shearer Hall on Friday evening,
will give both students and their visitors an
opportunity of seeing one of Dixie’s finest
collegiate musical organizations in action. A
special program, apporpriate for the occasion,

(Continued on page 5)

Dr. D. M. Robinson Talks

On Oriental Discoveries

Noted Archeologist and Linguist
Delivers Lecture

Dr. David M. Robinson, professor of
Greek at John Hopkins University, and
world famous archeologist, addressed a large
number of students in Shearer Hall last Fri-
day night. This lecture was of special inter-
est to students of Greek and Latin. Dr.
Robinson is considered one of the four great-
est archeologists in the world, and is not
only a distinguished scholar, but is also the
editor of several’ books, such as Ovid and
Sappho.

Dr. Robinson gaye an insight into what is
done in the archeological world. He spoke
from personal knowledge of scenes in which
he was an actor. He related many incidents
and thrilling experiences which have befallen
him in his many trips to the Qrient. In his
last journey, he spent many months exca-
-vating in Asia Minor, and he discovered the
ruins of the Antioch where Paul first preach-
ed to the Gentiles. This city was built about
280 B. C.

Along with the lecture, Dr. Robinson dis-
played a number of slides which amply illus-
trated his lecture. At first many colored
pictures of Asia Minor were shown, among

(Continued on page 5)

k Attracts Contingent of Southern Belles

CAMPUS LEADERS GET OMICRON DELTA KAPPA BIDS

Charlotte Wins in
Cinder Path Meet

Last Saturday afternoon Charlotte High
School won the second annual high school
track meet to be held at Davidson. The
winners scored 45 1-2 points. The Davidson
freshmen, their closest competitors, scored 44
points. These two far outclassed any of the
other entries, Greensboro High School tak-
ing third place with 24 points. The other
teams finished as follows: Concord, 6 points ;
Salisbury, 5 points; High Point, 4 points;
Barium Surings, 3 points, and Huntersville,
1 point.

Fort, of Charlotte, in winning the broad
jump with a distance of 20, feet and 10 inches,
broke the state record for that event. The

former record was 20 feet and 2 inches, Kell, |

of Davidson, walked away with the 220 yard
dash in the excellent time of 24 seconds.
Milstead, of Charlotte, outclassed the other
entries in the 120 yard low hurdles, complet-
ing the distance in 15 seconds.

Kell, of Davidson, and Horney and Brown,
both of Greensboro, were high point men for

the meet, each scoring 10 points, resulting | strong and knocked out seven runs. Although The material in this issue has reference ats)

Oak Ridge Cadets Fall
in Defeat as Wildcats
Engage in Big Slugfest

|Cadets Take Lead During Several
Stages of Game

FOUR CIRCUIT CLOUTS

Wildcats Weild Mighty Bat and
Force Three Pitchers from the
Mound

Davidson defeated Oak Ridge, last Friday
in a slugging contest, 19 to 13. There were
30 hits in the game, of which Oak Ridge got
18. Davidson players, however, knocked out
four home-runs, Alford getting two and
Laird and Woodham one each, Oak Ridge
led continually until the end of the sixth,
{when Vance's triple with three men on base
tied the score. In the first of the next inning,
Oak Ridge agaifY forged ahead with’ three

Sanity Rare to Be
Bigger and Better

As preparations for Junior Speaking are
being perfected, a great deal of time and
expense is being put on Sanity Ware, the hu-
morous. publication annually put out by the
junior class in connection with Junior Week.
In former years this publication, Gthough

Eleven Popular Men of
Two Upper Classes Win
Notable College Honor

Represent Every Phase of Student
and College Activities

ALUMNI RECEIVE BIDS

under different names, has always. been one?

of the most pleasing features of Junior

Week, and this year’s staff is determined to
Work on

the issue for this year has been going stead-

maintain this enviable reputation,

ily forward and all the material fs now in the
hands of the printer,
There will be an inerease in

sive and vol

ume over the issue of last year. There wl
be 54 pages, 9 inches by 12, with original
drawings, jokes, poems, limericks, humorous
stories, one line witticisms and ether novel.
ties. A special feature is the cover which
was designed by Miss Alberta Austin, of
Mobile, Ala. This cover is to be printed in
four colors, and without doubt is an attrac-

runs, but in their half Davidson came back | tive example of Miss Austin’s best’ work.

from two first places. Horney and Brown | Oak Ridge threatened once or twice in the) far as is possible to Junior Speaking, and
| final two innings, this was cnough to put the; all the material has been supervised by the

scored 20.of Greensboro’s 24 points.
Following the regular events Mr. F.

Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, wel-

comed the visiting teams to Davidson and

}ed well for Oak Ridge, Dean getting two
| triples.

IL, | game away. Dean, Benton and Johnson play- | faculty.

The magazine is to be printed in) Char-

Vance starred for Davidson, with! lotte, and will be sent back to Davidson some

presented Captain Ison, representing the | Woodham, Alford and Laird doing more than time Friday. On Saturday night the copies

Charlotte team, with a beautiful loving cup.
This cup was donated to the winner of the
meet by Prof. Carl Wachter, who has taken

(Continued on page 5)

Lynn McClain Wins

Junior Presidency

On the third ballot of the elections for the
presidency of the rising junior class, Lynn
B: McClain, of Sweetwater, Tenn., was
elected to lead his class during the coming
year. The final ballot was a run-over be-
tween McClain and Caldwell Withers, of
Columbia, S. C. In the second ballot, F. S.
Wearn, of Charlotte, N. C., was eliminated.
H. B. Arbuckle was eliminated on the first
ballot. The race was hotly contested through-
out, each man winning his position. in the
various ballots by a very small margin.
final ballot was led by McClain by only a
few votes.

McClain is one of the most popular mem-
bers of fhe present sophomore class, having
many positions of honor on the campus. Dur-
ing the ‘past year he has served the class as
its secretary and treasurer. He also was
elected manager of the glee club last fall,;and
served in this position during a most success-
ful season. The Beaver club, an honorary
sophomore organization, selected him as
their president for their first year of work.
McClain is a member of the local chapter of
the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Caldwell Withers, who ran McClain the
closest race, is also very popular with his
fellow classmates and students. Withers is
historian of the soph class and was toast-
master at the recent soph banquet held in
Charlotte. He is a member of Delta Pi
Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and
has also been doing excellent work on the
annual. Withers is a member of the Court
of Control and a soph assistant manager in
baseball. He is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Wearn and Arbuckle, who were next in the
race, havelikewise achieved honor on the
campus. Wearn is a member of the football

(Continued on page 6)

The |:

| their share.

of the
| warm,

Each team used three pitchers, but
| few innings.

| The box score and summary :

|none were very effective and lasted only a,

}

|

! Oak Ridge. ABR HPOA E)
Dean, 2b -- 22256) 20r4 1s 0
Goodson, ss aot 8 2.0 0 0
Scarboro, cf -- eee b 282 4270.30)
Johnson, If ----- -. 5 1°3 0: 0.0
“Howard, 3b ----- eee 5) alee 3.73)10
Oglettde tl sce eee se 300000
Richcen ris 2s. sees see 2000 0 0
Osea, Jy 25 Bh 4 sity (Il
Bentontic: a2 acre eeseese 3.0 2°77, 4-0
Edmundson, ¢ ----------- 000 0 0 0
WIRE pre 411010

(Continued on page 8)

JUNIOR WEEK PROGRAM

A complete calendar of events for
Junior Week, as announced by a
special committee of the Junior
Class, is presented below for the in-
formation of students and visitors

on the campus:

Thursday, April 1, 8:30 p. m.—Jun-
ior Oratoricals in Shearer Hall.

Friday, April 2, 2:30 p. m.—Baseball,
Davidson Fresh vs. Gastonia
High School.
8:30 p. m.—Special Glee Club
Concert.

Saturday, April 3—10:30 a.
Tennis Exhibition.
2:30 p. m.—Baseball, Davidson
vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
4:30 p. m.—Reception at home
of De. and Mrs. W. J. Martin.

8:30 p. m.—Entertainment in
Gym.
Sunday, April 4, 11:15—Special

church services under direction

of Junior Class.

6:15 p. m.—Open-air vespers.
Monday, April 5—Charlotte.

By errors and wildness, David- | will be distributed among those attending the
son threw away several runs in the beginning lentertainment at the gym. Each person will
game, but the team steadied as it got} get a copy, and -those wanting addional

(Continued on page 5)

R. E. Kell Chiisen as
Soph Class Leader

Robert KE. Kell, of Pascagoula, Miss., was
elected to the presidency of the rising sopho-

more class Saturday morning, March 27th, |

winning by a close margin over a field of five
nominees.

Because of the absence of J. R. Covington,
the present president of the freshman class.
who is ill at his home, Roland Parker, of
the Student Council, served as chairman of
the meeting, and had charge of the election.

In the first ballot, Kell and Flinn received
the highest number of. votes with John T.
Roddy running a close third. Five men were
nominated for this office, Bob Kell, Dick
Flinn, John T. Roddy, Bob Lefevre, and C.
J. Albright. In the second ballot, the two
nominees receiving the highest number of
votes were voted upon and Kell was elected
by a good margin over Flinn, :

Kell has held the position of vice-president
of the freshman class during the past year
and has proved to be very popular and
capable both on the campus and on the ath-
letic field. He‘’made his freshman monogram
in football last fall and is at present proving
himself the track star of his class. Kell is
also the newly-elected secretary of the ath-
letic association, and was runner-up for this
same honor in the student body. He is a
Delta Theta Chi.

The next two candidates have also played
important parts in activities during the past
year. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., was on the
football squad and is also showing up welf
in track. He has been/elected secretary and
treasurer of the student body next year. He
is a Kappa’Alpha. John T. Roddy, of Rock
Hill, S. C., is the present secretary and
treasurer of the freshman class and will be
the backbone of the freshman tennis team
when it is organiezd. Roddy is a member of
the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

Initiation Will Be Held Here the
Latter Part of This Month

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leader
ship fraternity, extended its coveted in-
Vitation to eleven prominent members of
the Junior and to
forty outstanding alumni at its regular
| spring election on Monday night. The
| students this bid, which is
widely considered the highest honor at-
tainable at Davidson were: Seniors, FLW.
Alford, LB. Huie, WH. L. Vanee, and J. M.
| Garrison; Juniors, J. FL Pinkney, LL. D.
Wharton, W. A. Christian, J. H. McCon-
nell, W. TP. Covington, W. H. Branch, and
111. M. Austin; A. Currie was
elected from the faculty.

The alumni, whose names will be an-
nounced are all who
gained conspicuous recognition in their
They will represent
Virginia,

Tennessee,

Senior @Classes and

receiving

Professor

soon, men have
various professions,
the states of Pennsylvania,
South Carolina, Florida,
Georgia, and North Carolina.

Frank W. Alford, of Chipley, Fla., was
one of the two members of his class to
make monogram in baseball
his first This year his athletic
prowess was recognized by his election
to the captaincy of the Wildcat nine. He
has ranked as a leader in the Class of '26
since its advent at- Davidson, . Alford is
a prominent member of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity.

Litchfield B. (Litch) Huie, of Atlanta,
(Continued on page 6)

a varsity

year,

Marionette Performance
| Will be Presented Here

Paul Clemens Will Bring Novel
Entertainment Here for Benefit
Performance Tuesday

|
' Davidson students will have an opportunity
Ito witness a marionette performance on Tues-
| day evening, April 6th, at 8:00 o'clock, when
| The Davidsonian will Mr. Paul
Clemens and his company at their appearance
fin Shearer Hall. A low admission charge
| will be asked, 25 cents, and the proceeds will
| go toward the fitting up of an office for this
publication.

Jack and the Beanstak and Punch
Judy will be the plays that will be presented
by these puppet actors that are marvels of
mechanical skill and ingenuity. A miniature
stage with special lighting effectS\and_ scen-
Music will be heard at
various the of the
plays, and perhaps the best part of all is the
way in which Mr. Clemens uses his voice to
impersonate the parts of all the characters.

The familiar story of childhood is used as
a basis for this play but it is interesting to
grown geaple as well as children. :The life-
like movements of the little wooden figures,
the deftness and dexterity with which they
move and the dramatic episodes through
which the little hero passes is worth the
time to anyone to see, according all who have
witnessed this sort of performance.

Puppet shows have been given since ancient

(Continued on page 3)

sponsor

and

ery will be set up.

times during progress

