8
8

{

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926 :

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: ,
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR..-------.----------- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES.........----------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wala: LN Gu be sabucuacsccnoss tuo eis accel Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTI t Managing Editor
Bye GAWLER hasnceyatcacsoccossausuekuedsen Athletic Editor
BUFORD WE -Associate Editor
. L. SHELBY~ -._-Alumni Editor
Digi: GALHOUN sc vedccacsncca.s -Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY_. Humorous Editor

D. M. CALHOUN ..-Alumni_ Editor
W. S. GORDON- ssignment Editor

Pics AON Behsucics sosbabdsdacgutuccucwdssauset Feature Editor

Timi OND Slasc asec cuedsusilcaskessssce-51NQuiring, neporcer.

BUSINESS STAFF ‘

FE. L. DOUGLASS........--.---Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD .--Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE....- .-Assistant Business Manager
. A. McALPINE_- ....---Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT--- % Circulation Manager

R. S. ABERNETHY...-.----------------------Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

Cc. C, MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN

JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE

J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT

L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW

TYREE DILL¢ B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F, McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

WHO SHALL, GO TO COLLEGE?

An unprecedented flood of students, which
has caused enrollment in American colleges
and universities to increase more than
seven-fold during the first quarter of the
present century is furnishing perplexing
problems to those in charge of the admin-
istration of our higher educational institu-
tions,

“Autumn migrations are coming to be as
much a part of human as of bird life,” de-

.clares Mildred: Adams, writing for the New

York Times, “only instead of taking up the
southward trail, young humans swarm off
to the colleges. From the University of
Maine to that Bryan-inspired college in
Florida; from small and dignified Williams
to turbulent and unweildly California, pro-
fessors and administrators in the 780 col-
leges, universities and professional schools
of the country are making ready for what
has been, since the war, termed a “flood of
students.”

Statistics show that up to 1917 the in-
crease in college students from year to year
was a fairly steady one, keeping pace with
the increase in the country’s population, its
growing wealth, and its growing desire for
education in general. To quote Miss
Adams: “From 1910 to 1915 some 35,000
more men went to college than had gone
during the previous five years. But, from
1915 to 1920 the increase jumped to 70,000
(a clear doubling), and the wail began to be
heard. Facilities for higher education, it
was said, were inadequate; more people
wanted to go to college than could be ac-.
commadated; something had to be done.”

The “flood” first became evident when the
men and women, who had gone away to
France to. fight, returned in 1919 to com-
plete their formal courses; and when the
state and national subsidies sent a huge
group of men to classes who otherwise
might never have known more of a college
campus than they saw on their way to a
football game. 3

At the beginning of September this year,
the rush for the colleges became more
noticeable than ever before. Wellesley, for
example, was forced to turn away more
than 1,200 applicants, and the University
of Pennsylvania found it necessary to refuse
admission to more than 2,500 who wished to
become first-year men in the college. Dart-
mouth had more than 2,000 applicants from
which to choose 650 freshmen, and Columbia
authorities estimate that three times as
many applied for admission there as they
were able to accommodate.

“For a time,” according to our authority,
“the big campuses were in a state of chaos.
Classes were too huge to be handled; cur-
ricula cracked under the strain; temporary
structures, temporary equipment, even tem-
porary professors were requisitioned to
take care of the crowding men and women.”

In their dilemma, the colleges instituted
emergency regulations, which they. hoped
would offer some relief from the great in-
vasion. Intelligence tests and entrance ex-
aminations were both tried, but, as the

many students who could pass the examina-
tions and intelligence tests.” Colleges were
forced to delve into other qualifications.
Yale began to take into account not only
the applicant’s scholastic record, but char-
acter, health, and finances’ as well. Wil-
liams requires a certificate of moral char-
acter, and also information concerning the
prospective student’s personality, his ca-
pacity as a “mixer,” his industry, energy,
reliability, initiative, his interests, and his
enthusiasms.

Washington and Lee, according to a re-
cent announcement from Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, their president, “is at present exer-
cising unusual care in selecting as matri-
culates only those, young men who in ad-
dition to their intellectual preparations are
in their moral character, personal habits,
and energetic industry specially desirable as
members of a self-governing student body.”
Other colleges, who have not,.ceceived as
much favorable advertisement as Washing-
ton and Lee, are likewise attempting to ex-
ercise added selection in filling their ranks.

Harvard, in an effort to stém the tide, has
even gone so far as to restrict the number
of students from the “foreign groups”
(Jews especially). But this restriction has
met with widespread disapproval, and the
Liberty magazine of August 7th, points out
that such a mode of selection will rob the
college of many of its finest scholars, since
four of the seven men chosen at Harvard to
receive the scholastic distinction of swmima
cum laude at the commencement of 1926
were distinctly of the “foreign group.”

English educational systems are being
tried, especially by such of the smaller col-
leges as Wells College in upper New York
and Pomona: College in southern California,
both of whom have established duplicate
colleges to care for the overflow. Voca-
tional and professional courses are being
substituted for the regular four-year college
degree courses in some of the larger state
colleges of the middle west.

All of these new methods of selection are
proving of value in solving the perplexing
problems of enrollment of American. col-
leges and universities, but unless some ade-
quate solution of the problem of who shall
go to college is soon offered, it appears that
our institutions of higher education must
slam their doors in the faces of stampeding
matriculates.

A LESSON FROM THE GRIDIRON

A group of students were discussing cam-
pus affairs at an honorary fraternity meet-
ing the other night, and the discussion turn-
ed unexpectedlyto debating. “It’s time we
were doing something to revive this ac-
tivity,” declared one of the group. A gen-
eral chuckle of amusement greeted his re-
mark.

But, behind that remark is real thought.
It is time, Davidson College was reviving
its interest in debating and the other
forensic and literary endeavors. Too
much emphasis is said to have been placed
on thé athletic interests of the college, and
this may or may not be true. The point is
Davidson needs to apply some of the lessons
she has learned on the gridiron to the re-
organization of her literary forces. :

There is as much potential literary power
in out student body today as there was at
any time in the past, but this potential
power is not being utilized either for the
benefit of the college or its individual stu-
dents. Sound the call for candidates for a
debating team, and a half dozen fellows turn
out to compete half-heartedly for a place on
the team, And always the same half dozen
fellows enter the contests.

What is the result? Three fellows of
more or. less mediocre ability are usually
chosen, and are requested to prepare for the
real contest! The word “requested” is used
advisedly in the previous sentence—for their
preparation is usually voluntary and too fre-
quently haphazard and indifferent. The de-
bate is held—and Davidson, once supreme in
forensic circles, proves a weak contesant.
That is not always the case, but too often it
is true. Attention is here directed to the
record of last year—three intercollegiate de-
bates, two disastrous defeats for Davidson!

Now glimpse at the gridiron. Scores of
students turn out every afternoon in an ef-
fort to secure one of the coveted places that
only the eleven best men can win. Three
coaches work untiringly to build up a_for-
midable athletic machine. A manager and
his corps of assistants render every assist-
ance to the task. A well-balanced schedule
has been arranged, with the contests so
scheduled as to allow the proper rest and
practice for the members of the team. Ev-
erybody on the jump—no loafing here.

How lethal, how stagnant is the picture
of debating activities in contrast with that
busy scene. Hardly enough men to make
up the needed number of contestants._No

]
|
|
|

ee

Honorary Fraternities---A Defense

An editorial in The Davidsonian last week
headed, “Honorary fraternities, formerly symbols
of achievement and of service, are in eminent
danger of losing their usefulness !” has caused
comment. That comment if not of the kind
termed “indignant” does object strongly to a
gross misstatement of facts and falsity of con-
clusion on the part of the author. Having been
so requested by a number of men cognizant of
the real facts in the case I shall endeavor to pornt
out the more obvious of these misrepresentations.
(Kindly refer to the article in question.)

That the honorary fraternities are “in eminent
danger of losing their usefulness” is “a bold in-
dictment.’ And indictment in no way proves
guilt. I know of no one man who has been priv-
ileged to make a “searching inquiry into the
records of the honorary fraternity for the past
few years.” I can say that from intimate knowl-
edge of the activities of fow of the honorary fra-
ternities at Davidson not only are they in no
danger of losing their usefulness but are con-
stantly increasing it. :

Next follows the charge that “‘Friendships on
the campus are becoming the determining factor
in the choice of too many honorary fraternity
members.” Passing over the ambiguity of “too
many” I do wish to object to what is implied
in the phrase ‘determining factor.” It is true
and always must be true in organizations of a
fraternal nature that there be real friendship.
The especial parts‘of. friendship vary according to
the sort, of the particular group.
tween men in a literary fraternity is based on the
natural compatibility of men of literary taste.
The member of a philosophical group admires in
his brother the ability to weigh metaphysical and
ethical values. -When selecting neophytes to an
order the members thereof choose men with such
friendship in mind. Freindships formed just
through the various contacts “on the campus” do
not determine what men shall be bid.

A word further: if a man excells in a certain
field of work he will surely be bid by the fra-
ternity studying that particular field. Those out-
standing are few. As a’ rule a man approaching
excellence who shows real interest in the work is
taken into the group. His interest plus the mem-
bers’ estimate of his capacity to enter into the
spirit and method of the fraternity’s field-of en-
deavor is the measure by which he is chosen.

The president of last year’s Honorary Frater-
nity Council referred to the tendency of friend-
ship to enter too largely into elections in the hon-

orary groups. He was speaking then to the small

Friendship be-:

group of Council members and only mentioned it
in passing. “His lengthy discussion, which was
never generally read” (naturally enough, nothing
of his talk having been published to this day) did
not call the tendency prevailing or dangerous.

As to the charge contained in the remainder of
paragraph four of the article: Cause or no cause
the honorary fraternities are not becoming “filled
to capacity with ‘honor-seekers, men who once
they have been initiated never bother to attend
the meetings or to aid in the furtherance of the
idals of the groups to which they belong.” Grant-
ing possibility of exception, the editor’s statement
would only be true of one of the less-established
honor societies. As to that, I know that one of the
newest locals averaged well over 90 per cent at-
tendance throughout the year just passed.

So much for the conclusions drawn by one man.
Naturally one man’s viewpoint is necessarily lim-
ited. The criticisms I have made are based on
observations made by several men, as well ac-
quainted as anyone with the status of the honor-
ary fraternities at Davidson College.

Now one statement in the article can be proved
greatly exaggerated—a falacious generality. The
editor says “When friendships determine the
membership of the honorary fraternities, the
same men will be seen to compose practically all
the honorary groups. Is that true at Davidson?
Look over the list. Do not the same men that
compose one honorary fraternity, with few ex-
ceptions, compose the membership of one or
more of the other groups?”

Having looked over the list my answer is:“NO.”

Of the 52 men belonging to honorary frater-
nities included in the Council:

43 belong to only one.
belong to two.
“belong to three. .
belong to four.
belongs to five.

en

A total of nine men belonging to more than
one honor society; over against forty-three be-
longing to only one.

The honorary fraternities are not above criti-
cism. There are defects in the system, That is
not peculiar to Davidson. The Davidson honorary
fraternities are consistently striving’ for advance-
ment toward their ideals and have been and are
of useful, worthy service to the College. If there
is an intellectual life in extra-curricul oy

it exists in the honorary fraternities.
President, Honorary Fraternity Council.

(Signed): H. M. AUSTIN,

Collegiate Chatter

The Inquiring Reporter

Co-Ed Conquerors
Co-educational students at Centennary College are
commanding the regard and respect of other students
through their achievements and influence, according to
a dispatch appearing in the recent Freshman issue of
The Conglomerate. Here's a clipping from. the item
referring to the young ladies: “In the realm of

achievements the co-eds of Centennary are ably demon- °

strating the fact that not the least of their talents lic
in the field of scholarly attainfment. Not only do they
add a touch of gayety, of sprightliness and beauty to
the campus life; but past records show that they have
set a standard of scholarship of which their instruc-
tors are proud. The girls of Centennary are also com-
ing to the foreground in intercollegiate contests, and
the success with which their efforts have been reward-
ed entitles them to a position of regard in our col-
lege life!”

Latin and Greek

Following the emphasis of a few years ago on prac-
tical subjects, the pendulum seems to be swinging in
the direction of cultural studies once more, at least
at the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, where
more students are pursuing the studies of Latin and
Greek this year than have ever done so before. “Be-
sides the great number of students who are investigat-
ing the functions of ‘amo, amas, amat,’ there is a large
group studying the language of Homer and Zenophon,”
declares an editorial writer in the Blue Stocking, who
sees in this increasing popularity of the classical lan-
guages at his college, a good indication that the pendu-
lum has started a back-swing.

regl coach—only an instructor, who is so
pushed for time that he can only aid the de-
baters at varying intervals. No well-regu-
lated schedule of contests or of practices.

_No_consistent-preparation-by the men who

compose the team.

There is need of a reformation, which will
bring to debating circles the same minute
organization and the same detailed super-
vision that is building successful athletic
teams for the college. Neither the faculty
nor the student body are entirely to blame
for the present lack of efficiency in literary
activities, but the renewed interest of both
will help to bring about a change of condi-

tions

Q. How do you think Davidson has shown up in
the last three weeks in football, and which school do
you pick for State Championship, judging from the
few comparative scores? :

Charley Harrison: Mercy me; huh! I think
it’s between State and Wake Forest, but if we
can stop Carolina, we'll beat both of them too,

Leighton McCutcheon: I believe that the team
is as strong as it was last year, and we'll beat
Wake Forest in spite of the three all-state men
they have back with them; and as for Carolina,
we can strengthen up as much as they, between
now andthe game with them.

Henry T. Powell: We are going to get State
Championship, for when Davidson fights, there’s
not a school in the State that can stop them. We
haven't the strongest nor heaviest, but we make
up for that with the fight.

Augustus Cox: This is the first time I’ve seen
Davidson play, but they have made a fine show-
ing, and ought to have as good a chance of win-
ning as the next team.

Bill Story: The chances for a championship
team are the best since 1923, and we'll beat both
Carolina and°Wake Forest, our strongest oppo-
nents.

Maury Johnson: The coaches predicted a weak
line, and a poor team on account of that, but it
seems to me that they were wrong, and our men
are strong on the trail of the State Champion-
ship. .

Ronald Wilson: Chances for a winning team
seem to me to be great, but we'll have to work
mighty hard, because there are some pretty stiff
games between us and championship.

“Slavedriver” Kuykendall: Man, we ought to
win, for besides having the fastest and fightenest
bunch in the South, we have the best coaches.

Tom Anderson: I haven’t seen the team in
action yet, but have been reading the papers reg-
ularly during my convalescense. I think David-
son has an exceptionally good chance at it, and
know that many outside the school feel the same
way about it. ; :

“Charley”: Well, Boss, you might put it in the
Papers now, as well as later, ’cause we have the
best team, the best coaches, and nobody else is
got a chance.

Some _children_are_incorrigible._In—Ala

New York Times points out, “there were too

bama.a caynty school burned the first day.
