. enna.

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press

SR TT

Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the ost Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

z .
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1N Conts ner Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Fditor hy 7 m Monday Articles re
ceived from an unkhown aource will not he published

HARLLEE

The wonderful record of the Wildcat foot-
ball team this year is due in no small measure
| to the pluck and determination of the men,
| who day after day, week after week, gave their
| best to building up a team on which they had
| not even the faintest hope of playing. There is
| no effort here to detract from the praise de-
| served by our varsity men and our inspiring
| and capable coaches. It is only in the belief
that the scrub deserves some commendation
| along with the rest that we have written this
‘little eulogy.
On the varsity team there is a fine spirit of

Lice tes ay |

wo ste Ro oe eb oe eis

More Tributes For the Wildcats

THE GLORY OF DAVIDSON

Of course, it is a matter of great pride locally that
the Davidson football team has come out of another
gridiron season as the champions of North Carolina.

One would have to look far and wide over this

| whole Country for an institution that is more deserv-

co-operation embodied in the slogan “One for |

All, All for One.” On the scrub team there is
a still more commendable and unselfish spirit
which we might incorporate in the motto “One
for All.” No chance of starring, no chance of
a write-up in the Sunday papers, no chance of
trotting out on the field amid the plaudits of
fellow-students—only the dismal prospect of
dig. dig, dig, today, tomorrow and forever.

But, oh, the glory of seeing the fellow you’ve
helped to train dive through an opponents’
line, skirt the ends, or side-sep to a touchdown.
That’s the one and only reward the scrub wants
nine times out of ten. He’s a great fellow, the
scrub, At last he stands a chance of wearing
the insignia of the college for the glory of
which he so obscurely but so admirably works
year in and year out.
God bless’m!

» BRANCH, JR..-------.--.----...-Fditor-in-Chief |

VERNON S. BROYLFS......-.....-----.--Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
W.L. LINGLE ...222----2--.-----2.-------.- Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN. ant Managing Fditor
GUAWUDHERS cc cecuscdscececeus souccsueen Athletic Fditor
BUFORD WEBB..-. .--Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY... .... .---.-Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN.... ..--Exchange Fditor
H. L. SHELBY .. .-Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN... ---....-Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON,.. ..-Assignment Editor
Pion ONHSassecce cuuucuscusconseusduscunumnage Feature Editor
T. T. JONES......-22-.-.--.-2--..----.-.. Inquiring Reporter
BUSINESS STAFF

EB. i, DOUGLASS. ............-Assistant Rusiness Manager |

M_P. CRAWFORD__.. ---Assistant Business Manager |

TULIAN LAKE ae .-Assistant Business Manager |

fF A, McALPINE. ..- -----------Subscription Manager |

V. 1. ATRRIGHT__ --.--.-.-Cirenlation Manager |
R. S. ABERNETHY..._._-.---2--2-22-....-.-Service Manager

)

Reporters’ Club

C, C_ MURCHISON CR. LL. ,

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. TANT.

W. T. DAVIS TOUN CWIN
JOHN MORIARTY . T. T. JONES

ie st BROWN ROW. McIt WAINE
.L. EL . P. McKNIGHT
I.. WADSWORTH iN M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

The Davidsonian takes this means of ex-
tending its congratulations and best wishes to
Coach Tex Tilson and the young lady who shall
soon be “Mrs. Tilson.” From coaching a
State Championship football team to winning
a bride might be to some aJong step—but, to
Tex, it was just the closing of one exciting
chapter and the opening of another—perhaps
even more exciting!

D
¢
Banquets in Charlotte, Greensboro, Gastonia,
and Mooresville for our State Champion foot-
ball team. Sort of looks like the boys are try-
ing to make up for all those meals they post-
poned during the long training-table siesta.

De

Tf the N. C. State Wolfpack had happened
to have passed through Davidson last week
after their victory over the Wake Forest
eleven, they could have had the town, the col-
lege, and anything else they might have cared
for around these parts. For once the Wildcats
and their brothers of the Wolfpack got to-

ithe Davidson football team,

HELPING HANGCHOW

Four years ago Warren Cox was a star on
Those were in
the days when old ’Lias Faison, “Nappy” Davis.
“Jimmie” Hendrix and “Country” Fields were
cavorting about in the Wildcats uniform, and
Warren was about as good as the next one.
He wasn’t such an outstanding star, perhaps,
as some of these fellows who have been playing
on our State championship teams nowadays.
but he could stack up pretty favorably with the
best of them at that.

on the gridiron, but in the classroom and on
the campus, as well. He was a good scholar
and one of those “pure wool, vard-wide” type
of gentlemen, who almost inevitably win rec-
ognition. Warren was in for a big success in
the professional world—his college reputation
assured him a place in almost any profession

i he might have chosen.

But, Warren forgot wealth and fame in his
ambition to serve God and his fellowman. He
accepted a position as Chemistry professor and
athletic advisor in the Hangchow Christian
College of China. Far from home and friends,
he has labored for three years. depending for
his small income on the interest of students
back here in Davidson.

So far his Alma Mater has never failed War-
ren. Somehow the students here have felt all
alone that he was their own representative in
the foreign field, and, unable to join him in
body, they have continued to send him funds
with which to keep up his good work. Fach
year, Davidson .students have conducted a
campaign among themselves to raise funds
with which to keep Watren in China, where he
is doing much toward perpetuating Davidson’s
record for service.

gether and won a State Championship—for
the Wildcats. Too bad the fellows at State
can’t share with us toa greater extent the joys
of a State Title. ‘

D
THE SCRUB

For the first time in the history of the Col-|

lege, the Davidson athletic atithorities have |
awarded service letters to four faithful second- |
string: football men, who although giving un-
reservedly of their time and energies, were,
nevertheless, unable to make the varsity squad.
No recognition by the athletic association has
ever received more favorable comment from
the student body asa whole,

The lowly scrub is too often forgotten in the

rush to reward varsity athletics. Lacking, per-
‘haps, the natural attributes of a varsity play-
er, the scrub is frequently the most faithful,
the most consistent, the most unselfish can-
didate for a place on an athletic team.

Not many years ago a great coach was asked
how he managed to turn out such an invincible
gridiron machine season after season. His in-
terrogator, undoubtedly, expected the coach
to answer with words of praise for his varsity
material, or by modest boast of his own coach-
ing methods. Imagine the surprise when the
coach quickly replied, “The scrubs—they make
my teams for me!”

And sa it is. Consider the discouraging
plight of the coach who finds himself with only
eleven star players, from which to build his
team. He is without reserves from which he
can draw in case of injury to his first-string
proteges, he is without men against whom he
can test and develop the strength of his varsity
men. It is the coach with an abundant supply
of hard-working, indomitable, and. self-sacri-
ficing scrubs who comes through with a win-

Next week Davidson students will be asked
to contribute again toward the support of their
representative on the faculty of the Hangchow
Christian College, wlttth some vears ago was
appropriately tlabeled-“The Davidson of China.”
A campaign to raise a thousand dollars will be
Jaunched on the campus within a few days, and

our students will rally to the cause of Christian

education in the foreign fields.

Enjoying the benefits of such an education
here-at Davidson, our students find a special
incentive to contribute to a fund that will make
it possible for our brothers of the yellow race
to receive the same service.

Approximately_one-half_of the fund_of_a
thousand dollars, which will be raised here, will
vo directly to Warren Cox, and the other half
will go to an equally worthy cause. . Edgar
Tufts, who graduated in 1922, has taken up
the work begun by his father among the pov-
erty-stricken folk of the North Carolina moun-
tains, and without an endowment or appro-
priation, he is today maintaining an orphanage,
school and hospital for the needy people with
whom he works. The success of his work de-
pends entirely on the interest of friends, and
their gifts—and there are times when it hardly
seems possible that he can continue his philan-
thropy among the mountain-folk. But, Tufts
has courageously kept on, asking for nothing,
giving everything. The appeal for help in his
work will meet with a sympathetic response
among Davidson students.

Davidson is fortunate in that her students
are protected from the usual run of campaigns
for charity donations, too many of which are
today making their appeal to the hard-pressed
college man. But, the camnaign for Hangchow
College and the Tuft’s project commend them-
selves to us as worthy ‘causes, and Davidson

ning varsity aggregation.

4

men, appreciating this, Will gladly respond to
the best of their ability.

Here’s to the scrub— |

Warren took a place of prominence not only |

j} not “hold the press’

ing of such gladiatorial distinction in its home State
and, because of the ‘nearness of Davidson to Char-
lotte, not only geographically, but every other way,
it stirs up the community blood to a point of genuine
warmth that the boys up the line have come away
from their football labors this Fall with such
eminent distinguishment.

If we listen to the appraisals of the sporting writers
of the State, we would incline to the view that David-
son, perhaps, had no better football material than a
number of the other elevens of North Carolina in-
stitutions, that in some respects it may not have
stacked up with one or two of them in brilliance of
individual stars or in versatility of its play, but that
the reason for its achievement lies in the aggressive
spirit of the team, the never-say-die stuff that you
used to hear about as being that of which conquerors
and heroes are made.

And we suspect that is about right.

Davidson football teams have long held just that
sort of a reputation and it is a vastly finer sort of
reputation for a college and for a college’s football
team to have than one possessed by going out and
scouring the Country for some exceptional football
material and bringing it to school ‘for little purpose
other than of getting a conquering eleven for a
season.

Some colleges have been and are yet suspected of
doing just that thing, but it soon leaks out on them
and if they are lucky enough to win the fame of a
championship by this means, their reputations in the

long run won’t stand the wash.

We heartily, therefore, applaud the accomplish-
ments of the Presbyterians.

They have worthily won a distinct glory on the
gridiron and the best part about it is that that is
not the only sphere in which the Davidson insti-

tution excells—The Charlotte News.

FINE SPIRIT

The spirit of friendship and fellowship manifested
at the Davidson-Carolina game last Saturday at
Davidson was one of the most pleasing features of
the gridiron classic.

There has always existed the keenest of rivalry
the University and the Presbyterian in-
stitution, but there has always been, too, the friend-
liest of relations. The University respects the fight-
ing qualities of the Davidson players, and the latter
feels the same way toward Carolina.

The tributes both band and student bodjes, paid
to their rivals by playing and singing each other’s
colege songs was a beautiful exhibition of real sports-
manship. A writer in the Tar Heel of Saturday
GEV OH aR PI ee ong
The relations between Carolina and Davidson now
are a credit to both schools. May Davidson always

between

“or

rang ace-high among our rivals.”—Gastonia Gasctte.

THE ACCLAIM OF MONK YOUNGER

Too bad that the last issue of The Davidsonian could
’ until the issue of the football
hattle the Wildcats and the Duke Blue
Devils was known. “However, the Davidson College
paper contented itself with approximate anticipation
of the result. It prophesied that to Davidson would
come the State championship, and behold! that is
just what happened. It was a strong team that
made final contest with Davidson for State honors
and for that reason Davidson is all the more lifted
up, and The Davidsonian was not unmindful of its
opportunity for placing credit. This it gives to Monk
Younger, who led the charge against the Blue Devils
at Durham, the crowning accomplishment as pilot
for the Wildcats “through the mill of the hardest
schedule in recent years, with a record of ‘seven
victories and two defeats.’ Certainly all the boys

between

‘can take their hats off to Monk Younger.

SPORTS TOWER
By Wiliam Gant

If anyone who read this column back in July and
August is among those who are reading it today, he
will remember that a line was used almost every
day or so which had something like this—“There will
be no post series.’ This. morning there is no more
appropriate sentence to use than—There will be no
post season football game!

The Best Team

Sitting on top of the world, the Davidson College
Wildcats are the 1926 football champions of North
Carolina. There is no argument for~there is no
better football team in the state. Any team that
can win three of four major state games and tie the
other one while its nearest competitor is winning
two, tying one and losing one, is the titleholder.
There is no better football team in the state; there
are numerous better football players than the ones
who make up the Wildcat eleven. Football honors,
however, go to the best team.

season, closed.

Knowing Too Soon

There have been more “upsets” recorded this
season than ever before. As a whole, the foot-
ball squads throughout the country have been
better coached in the science of the game but
the biggest reason for the failure of games to
run according to “dope” has been in the fact
that the majority of the good teams realized
that they were good before the season ended.
Davidson is the champion of North Carolina
because it is the best team today; it has the
best record and there is no way of getting
around it. Carolina had a better team before
the Tar Heels met the Wildcats but, it strikes
us, Carolina players and supporters knew that
before and not after the game, Wake Forest
had a better team before meeting N. C. State
but the same thing happened: the Baptists
knew it!

Pessimism

Gil Dobie has been criticized for his gloomi-
ness since becoming a’ football coach. Before
every game, the Cornell mentor has told his
men that they were pretty poor football play-
ers; they hadn’t showed him that they were
good; and he was the boss of things. The result
is that Dobie has more games won than any
other mentor in the country on his standing
for a career. Pessimism isn’t so encouraging
sometimes but it is better than to let athletes
realize that they are the best in, the business.

The Case of Ruth

Babe Ruth was the greatest of all swatters;
for season after season he proved it. The first
thing one knew, Babe realized that he was the
greatest figure in baseball. The result was
that in 1925 he was the biggest fizzle in the
sporting world. He found out that he couldn't
be the greatest swatter and know it at the
same time. Realizing this he made a most
sensational comeback. Today he is at the top
of the heap. Probably he knows it but one
thing certain, he isn’t going to take a chance.

Wildcats Under-Rated

All season, Davidson has been under-rated.
Sports writers throyghout North Carolina have
picked Davidson to lose on more than one
occasion. Football fans, far and wide, have
done the same thing. “Monk” Younger and
“Tex” Tilson haven't failed to let the Wildcats
know that they were not the best in North
Carolina. On the other hand, good teams have
found out how good they were before the
Call it overconfidence or what-
ever you wish, there is such a thing as learning
too quickly.

Davidson Spirit
Not for one moment does the writer wish to

‘discredit the strength of the Davidson eleven.

Frankly, we believe that nine out of the 11
men on the Wildcat team will admit that there
are better football players than themselves in
North Carolina. We are sure that the coaches
will admit that there is better material on other
teams. And yet, without a doubt, the Wild-
cats make up the best team in the state. What
the men lacked in, ability they had in spirit.
Rah-rah stuff is laughed at by the wise boys
but the team with the spirit to win rarely is
defeated.

DAVIDSON TRIUMPHS

By virtue of its defeat of Duke and Wake
Forest’s failure to defeat State on Thanksgiv-
ing Davidson stands the undisputed champion
of the State in football for the year 7626.4

In view of the controversy which would have
been precipitated had the, outcome of the
Thanksgiving games been otherwise it is a hap-
py circumstance both for Davidson and the
State at targe that the results have eliminated
that contingency. The Davidson football team
of 1926 is altogether worthy of the honor.
Traditionally Davidson football teams have al-
ways demonstrated a fighting spirit which
honors them even when defeated. In their an
nual clash with Wake Forest this year they
showed a margin of superiority which fully
corroborates their worthiness of the champion-
ship, even though the game eneded in ‘a tie.

No college in North Carolina wil wear their
laurels with more distinction of true worth
than Davidson and The Journal joins with a
great host of Davidson admirers throughout
the State in extending its heartiest congratula- .
tions.—Winston-Salem Journal.

Sea bathing was held scandalous in England
until the beginning of the 19th Century, and
persons who took a dip in the ocean were apt
to be forcibly “retrieved” by those who thought
they had gone mad.

Radio tests to determine the permanency of
the earth’s crust were conducted during Octg-
ber and November by the International As-
tronomical Union.
