een nas row owt THE: DAVIDSONPAN; NOVEMDER £5, 1526” I ee
| JPA 2 bad rmer were chas TO e ne r
RICHARDSON BROTHERS VALUE __ Shining Seniors Select {ii "veiore excessive numbers. ‘The fina FREE TICKETS
BENEFITS OF SPORTS HIGHLY _ Sophisticated Symbols} ji" to oe eee ell pe ca lw :

The following is the letter from Lunsford
Richardson, Jr., read by Max Hendrix at the
dedication of the new stadium, November
13th:

Mr.. President, Faculty and Students of
Davidson College.
Dear Fellows:

I regret that it was impossible for either
my brother or myself to be with you today.
Finding, however, that my “old lady”—as
we used to call room-mates in my day—
would be there, I asked him to sub. for us in
officially presenting Richardson Field to the
Alma Mater.

Every old Davidson athlete—particularly
every old fooball player—will unanimously
agree and bear me out that probably the
greatest impression made on him during his
stay at Davidson was that Old Red Field we
used to have there. These impressions were
lasting as evidenced by the fact that in after
years when a bunch of old Davidson “has
beens” got together and started reminiscing,
sooner or later they reached the familiar
topic of that “Old Red Field.” In addition
to the usual broken bones, sprains and strains,
I have heard fellows attribute even, chronic
catarrh and premature baldness to the red
dust—it sure took a heavy soaping to get it
out of the pores. When dry it was bad
enough, but when wet it was worse, and all
were always unanimous in agreeing that after
a rain and a few muddy practices, when the
clods and hoof-prints became sun-dried like
bricks, every time a man hit one of those
projections he favored said point of contact
and his person for a week thereafter.

To show you just how bad that old field
was, I doubt if there is an old Davidson man
—whether he played varsity, scrub, class ball
or Epworth—who has not heard and experi-
enced the expression somebody got off to the
effect that “Any man who has ever played a
season’s football on that old red field at Da-
vidson has simply been drug through hell in
a croker sack and nothing less.” Certainly

nobody needed a good playing field *worse |

than we did.

Then,-too,-we-had-never had any seating
capacity at Davidson—in fact; until the last
few years we have never really needed any.
But with,the big road building program over
the South, and particularly the hard surface
roads being put down in North Carolina for
the last two or three years, inter-collegiate
athletic -contests began to draw. As_ these
roads became more general, the colleges con-
nected with good hard surface roads and
within several hours of the big centers of
poputation, began to draw more and more
of their alumni and the general public to
their home grounds. In the North, where
they have had good roads fpr years, it has
long since become popular for the people to
take a half to a day’s motor trip with their
whole family to see college.contests. Annual
games became in time annual classics, and in
the last year or so all these colleges have
had to greatly enlarge their stadiums. It
was easy to see that the same thing would
happen in the South as our motor transpor-
tation became. quicker and:‘more comfortable.

Just as golf has deservedly taken first place
as.an after-college amateur sport, football
has become the great school and college
game. Almost everybody nowadays realizes
the value of training in such a highly organ-
ized and competitive sport as football, under
a high-minded, competent coach. The Spar-
tan training alone would make it worth-while
for every student who is physically sound—
if you get run in in the fall, stay in training
and go out again for the spring session.

Some time ago one of my uncles—an alum-

nus and former president of Davidson—|
Henry Louis Smith, sent me one of his ar- |

ticles on this subject which impressed me
very much. . Here are, briefly, a few of
what he calls The Lessons of the Gridiron.

1. The habit of willing deference to the
opinions and guidance of authority in the
person or coach.

The habit of self-control, of subordinat-

ing the present to the future, the body to
the spirit, the desires and emotions to the
will.
{ 3. The-practical recognition of the neces-
sity of long, hard training, unremitting
drudgery and hard work as the inevitable
price of future victory.

4. The ability to fight an opponent to a
finish, yet without personal hostility or un-
fairness, and to lose without bitterness or
hatred.

5. The habitual recognition of the fact
that every contest must be waged in accord-
ance with fixed rules; that the maxims,
“all’s fair in war,” and, “the end justifies the
means,” are lies; and that it is better to lose
honestly than to win dishonestly.

6. The practical knowledge that the har-
monious team-work, the sacrifice of the in-

dividual for the common good, unselfish loy-
alty to one another and to the team are es-
sential to efficiency and success in any co-
operative undertaking.

7. The inculcation of a keen sense of per-
sonal honor and personal responsibility which
will prevent the breaking of an_ obligation,
even when detection would be imposible.

8. In addition, the whole body and mind
is trained to quick co-ordination, strength
and endurance, and each player is not only | ,
given a new idealism of physical “fitness”
but taught to attain and maintain it. Manly
“hardness,” that disregards pain, resoluteness
and power of will, a mental training in com-
plex plays equal to that of any college course

the list.

pass a majority of their tickets before they |
can play is absolutely correct and proper—
a man who can’t carry his regular schoot |
work with this extra or parallel course, |
should drop some of the “parallel work.” 1}
want to pay a tribute right here to David- |
son teams of the last two or three years, |
which I understand are averaging about 10 |

(Continued on page 8) |

|

CAMPUS CLIQUES

While the voice ofthe politician is heard |
throughout the land, the student states- |
man’s voice is no less audible on many |
a college campus. Student Councils are}
being elected in the colleges, as well as |
cass officers, and the season of bickering |
and deals is on.

At the University of Kansas football |
players, who are also candidates for of- |
fices, played at political intrigue so vig-

that they neglected the more |
muscular game and caused their Univer- |
In fact, it is charged that |
| political factions split the football team |
{asunder and rendered it impotent on the
'field. At least is the charge of
| Chancellor E. H. Lindley who rebuked
the athletic politicians publicly at con|
vocation, : |
| Qhortly afterward the football |
| withdrew their candidacies, by request |
‘of Coach F. C. Cappon. As a result there
i will be no attempt to hold elections un- |
til football season is over. |
| As usual there is much talk of cliques |
land combines. The Boston University |
|News frankly admits their existence:

| “The fact that cliques exist cannot be |
denied. ‘If one fraternity is not strong
‘enough to swing the whole election, it |
| combines with one or two others of the
same strength, and these, sometimes by
| affiliating, with one or two non-frater- |
nity men, manage to control the entire |
| workings of a class or organization. And |
‘once the clique gets in control it runs |
| affairs to suit itself, behind closed doors |
i;which bear the sign, ‘No admittance.” |
! The News is in favor of a benevolent |
despotism. It would have us. frankly ad- |
|mit the impracticability of democracy
among educated people. Its editorial |
|concludes: “It is far better that the |
clique run things to suit itself, for if ev-
ery member of the.class was to be con-
sulted everything the organization
| would collapse, and nothing would be ac- |
| complished. Tf a clique can run the af- |
fairs of the class in a smooth manner it |
lis to be given a vote of thanks and not |
| censured for its lack of Democracy. We |
favor clique politics because (1) it is)
(2) it is inevitable, and /

”

orously

leet
sity. to lose.

such

men

|
|
on |

| more efficient ;
(3) it gives us something to talk about.

At Ohio State University the usual |
groups are conspiring for the senior class |
Hitherto this has been done
in secret. This year one of the groups |
comes forward with the suggestion that
the fraternities implicitly declare their
combines openly and unashamedly: “The
pre-election stand of this combination is
honest and clean, open publication of |
political combines and their principles |
rather than the underhand, sub-rosa |
methods that have prevailed in former |
years. That these campus political com- |
bines exist is a well known fact, and this |
combine fegls that the ‘above board’ |
publication of the political stiuation is |
the only honorable method of handling |
this problem for the best interest of all |
concerned.

“In the opinion of this group of can- |
didates, refusal to publish well recog-'
nized combinations can.mean only one

presidency.

thing, namely, underhandedness.”
The New Student.

s

Ss

Choose Canes and Derbies to Mark

Superiority

Race track derbies are run over by horses.

Senior derbies are run down by horses, But
derbies and canes it is to be.

The Senior class of Davidson College, for

the year 1927, has at last decided upon derbies
|as the high and dignified mark of superiority
jon this here campus.

Crowning the well-
haped brows and resting upon the well-oiled

| locks of his majesty The Senior will be seen
jin the near future a Fifth Avenue model of
| the celebrated old lid, the derby. Black has
| been decided upon as being a bit more awe-
| inspiring than the brown variety. Mr. Senior,
—all these and many more might be added to | nonchantly twirling his own personal cane,
| will be a living prototype of what the well-

Now, don’t mistake the phrase “equal to) gressed aman should wear.
any college course” to mean the whole col-| cynosure of all intelligent eyes. Ain't knowl-
lege course. I think the rule that athletes must | edge grand!

He will be the

Mri Joseph McConnell, president of the

|class of 1927, has had expurged from class
| records all account of the thrilling and grue-

ome contest which waged between. the

Sweaterites and the Derbyites before the

bitter batttle that waged so warmly and so
vociferously within the venerable walls of
old Shearer apropos class insignia.

There were three distinct classes:
who wanted derbies, those who wanted
sweaters, and those who wanted a fight. The
third class outnumbered one and two, so it
seemed; and a good time was had by all.
Harllee Bordeaux and Harllee Branch have
been invited to repeat their performance be-
fore the biennial meeting of the Associated
Association of Amalgamated Derby and
Sweater Producer’s Union at their next reg-
ular session in the Yangsze Stadium, Peking,
China. Don Wharton has graciously acceded
to the request that he referee the bout. Rob-
ert Glenn and Holcombe Austin will act as
pallbearers. This is a little ways off the
subject, but it’s good fight news. And sport
news is scarce this issue.

There remains one element of truth-in this

account. The Seniors have officially adopt-
ed the cane and derby as the class regalia.
Will the hoi polloi please co-operate and re-

frain from nasty and abusive language ?
a

Those |

Through the generosity of the Stowe
Brothers, proprietors of the Davidson
theatre, the football team was given
50 passes to ste “Red” Grange in One-
Minute-to-Play last Monday night.

These passes were given to the foot-
ball team by the Stowe Brothers to
show their interest in the team, and
Davidson College in general. This
entitled all members of the football
squad and the managers to general ad-
mission,

The Davidson theatre was built last
year by the Stowe Brothers. In past
years theatres in Davidson have failed
after a short period. However, the
present theater, due to the first-class
pictures that have been shown and to
the nominal admission charge, has had
a large patronage and more than likely
is here to stay.

Love—“Does she smoke?”
Knox—“Well, almost.”

We know a country lassie who thinks a

chocolate sundae is a negro holiday.

A clear field ahead!

Liocerr 6 Mrms Tosaceco Co.

perfectly blended.

Gain after gain for
natural tobacco taste

T stands to reason—the better the tobaccos, the
‘better the taste.
natural tobacco character—better still!

There's character in Chesterfields—natural charac-
ter—the natural mildness and good taste of fine tobaccos

And when matched to bring out

How else account for Chester-

field’s record — America’s fastest-growing cigarette for
four consecutive years? How else than through a
natural goodness which men find in no other cigarette?

d

7

