8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

Class of ’21 Will |
Hold F irst Reunion

A. Franklin Fricker, secretary of the class
of '21, has recently sent out circular letters
to the members of the class announcing the |
first reunion of the class which is to be held |
at commencement this year. Questionnaires |
have also been sent out with a view of ob-|
taining more accurate information about the
members of the class. The following is a
copy of the letter which was sent out. Any
other information about the reunion may be
obtained from Mr. Fricker, 1230 Westover |
Ave., Norfolk, Va.

Dear Fellow Classmates :

The time for our first five-year reunion is
drawing near. It’s just about four months’
time before we gather together again. And!
that fact makes us begin to wonder how
many old faces will be on hand.

To be consistent with our policy of making
the Class of Twenty-one shine forth, Jicky |
Taylor, our venerable president, and I have}
been in conference on plans for a big blow-
out.

To put across this idea of a distinctive |
class reunion—one that will stand out from |
the ordinary run of such events even as our
Alma Mater stands out from the ordinary
run of colleges—calls for the participation
of every one of you fellows in the plans and!
stunts. Don't wait to be conscripted. Give
us your support all the way down the linc. |

A reunion without anybody present would |
be like a wedding without the bridegroom. |
So let us insist that you be on hand for the
fray. Put down these dates now—May 30-,
June 2—and plan to be with the gang when.
the roll is called.

Then, having succeeded in getting the!
bunch together, we want to have a good’
time. That will take a small amount of |
money, and a large amount of brain power.
For the former, Jicky and I think ‘that an
assessment on the members of the class will
be satisfactory. You will have a chance to
express yourself on that, so spout forth. |
The second problem calls for several things.
Cogitate and send in some of your brain
children as suggestions for some feature
stunts that we can pull off. And also signify |
your willingness to help out with some of |
the physical details of such a reunion.

Finally, we want to pull off another meet- |
ing of our class by mail. You will find here-
in a questionnaire. Fill it out now and mail
to me immediately. The answers to some
of the questions will not be binding, but we
want to form some ideas on the number of
fellows that can be expected to attend. We}
will send out cards for a final check up,
some time in May. And what’s more, you,
will hear from us again soon.

Remember—Make old ’21 shine forth with
the old time brilliance this time!!!

Your class secretary,
A. Franklin Fricker.

Bordeaux Elected
Head of New Club

The Wilmington Club, an organization
created this year on the Davidson campus,
is back in full swing after a few weeks of
dormant silence. On last week the Wilming-
tonians met and elected the new officers for
the second half of the year; at this meeting
Harlee Bordeaux was elected to the presi-
dency, Duncan McEachern was made vice-
president, and David Westbrook, secretary
‘and treasurer.

tion of allowing Countess Catchcart entering

Doctor Gillespie Speaks |
to Ministerial Band at
Gindions Shey ~ Regular Sunday Meeting

Using the Congressional Method of dis- Seminary President Speaks on

cussion by the house the Pandeinic Society Qualifications of a Young
held one of the livest of recent meetings Minister

Tuesday night. The society discussed with cep ‘ ‘

much interest the question: Resolved, That; p,. Gillespie, president of Columbia Semi-

the prisons of today should tend to record! nary, was the speaker at the Ministerial Band

rather than punish the prisoners, meeting Sunday afternoon at 2:15. His talk
During the evening about eight men took | was a presentation of the “Qualifications of a

the floor on the different sides of the ques-' Young Minister of the Gospel.”

tions. So intense was the interest that a As the first phase of his talk, Dr. Gillespie |

Literary Societies

i

|vote on the question was postponed until! took up the necessity of thorough prepara- |

the society could center more thoroughly the; tion. Asserting that the minister of the
matter at a later meeting. | Gospel should have the most thorough prepa-
The society will hold a feed at 8:30 tonight | tation possible for carrying on this _all-im-|
in the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. portant work, he discouraged the idea of |
getting this preparation in six years and

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society's meet- Course. :
ing was featured Thursday night by a de-| In the second place, according to the speak-
bate on the entrance of the United States | ¢t @ young minister must be a leader. The
into the World Court. Following this an | S¢minary’s task is to make “leaders of leader-
extemporaneous debate was held on the Ship” for when a young minister leaves the
question of allowing Countess Vera Cath-| Seminary and enters into work in a com-
cart to enter the United States. Don Whar- munity he immediately is expected to be a
ton and Helm won from Camper O'Neal and leader. In comparing this with other pro-
Roland Sims, the winners upholding the af-! fessions, Dr. Gillespie said that in no other
firmative side. | occupation was it true except in the minis-

Following Don Stewart's win over Henry | All others must by hard work show
Powell on the affirmative side of the ques- | Hat they are leaders while 8 Selig Gallic
!must only confirm the idea.

In closing the speaker made an appeal to
the ministerial candidates to have the cour-
. age of their convictions. He expressed the

Eumanean belief that nothing was impossible to the

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Lit-|™n who believed it possible and he Gives:
erary Society, in place of the regular meet-| #ged his hearers to have confidence in their
ing an election of officers was held, The, °W" ability and faith in God's readiness to
following men were elected: Wade Allison,| #4 them. He referred to Paul's famous
president; Clancy Williams, vice-president ;) Words, “I can do all things through Jesus
V. L. Lingle, secretary and treasurer; Fred Christ, who strengtheneth me.”

Smith, critic.

the country, the society went into business
session,

The retiring officers were: Fred Smith,
president; W. A. Christian, vice-president ;
C. G. Davidson, secretary and treasurer;
Tom Barr, critic.

HONORARY FRATERNITY

(Continued from page 1)
world problems by winning over several op-
Four freshmen, Mack King, E. R. McCon-/ ponents in a competitive thesis contest.
nell, Dick Flynn, and A. C. Kelly, were}
initiated into the society. It was decided to|ternity, elected three Seniors, three Juniors,
have a feed at the next meeting, for which} and one Soph. Omega Phi Alpha, local
Clancy Williams kindly volunteered to stand | philosophy and psychology fraternity, extend-
half the expense. |ed bids to four members of the Junior class
* ° who have evinced extraordinary and original

‘ Philanthropic : |interest in the above sciences.

The regular meeting of Phi Society was , Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fra-
held at their hall Thursday night. ternity, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national

The query was one which was debated chemistry fraternity, elected one man and
several wecks ago, and because of its large' two men, respectively. Both organizations
scope it was decided to debate it over. The) elect strictly on the basis of grades and are
question was, Resolved, That there should! thereby arbitrarily limited in their bidding.
be a department of aeronautics. Because of Bids were extended as follows:
limited time, there were only two speeches |
made from the floor. The affirmative side
of the question was decided as the winner.

Routine business was transacted. It was
decided to begin the meeting at 7:15\in order
to allow a little more time for speaking.

Alpha Phi Epsilon
Seniors

J. C. Barrington
W. H. Allison
F, T. Franklin

Juniors
W. A. Christian
C. G. Davis
T. G. McCutchen

bers will enjoy a hot dog roast, after which
a short business meeting will be held.

The club is working to build up the inter-
est in the home town as far as urging the
graduates of the high school to accept Da-
vidson as their alma mater. During the
Christmas holidays the club went in a body
to the high school and presented them with
a seal of Davidson to be hung in the corridor

Sophomore

H. T. Powell
Delta Pi Kappa

On Tuesday night of March 16th the mem-

127 West Broad Street

When you come up for those spring dances

bring her in

ARM

NICE LINE YOUNG MEN’S DRESS TROUSERS |
ALSO BASEBALL GOODS

ARMY SALVAGE

SALVAGE COMPA

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN

Army Goods and General Merchandise |

‘made an appeal for the full seven years’:

Alpha Phi Fa i national forensic fra-’

THE PACE THAT KILLS

In the current number of the “Ameri-
can Campus” the following article ap-
pears which is universally applicable to
all college life. It induces that tradition-
al “Food for Thought.”

The activity hound is a familiar figure
on every campus. He is a joiner. He
mixes with the right bunch and on ac-
count of the theoretical influence he is
supposed to have with various organiza-

tions gets himself elected, to certain high,

offices. Quite often he is labelled the
campus clown by those who stand off
and smile. Sometimes he is a regular
fellow with all the hearty blarny of a
Babbit and the executive ability of a
real estate merchant.

Here is the plaint of a misfit who finds
himself swept up in the swirl of campus
|currents. He says in The University
| Daily Kansan:
| “Yes, 1am swamped. But there seems
_no way out. The pace is set for me and
| I must follow it. If I don’t the rest of
| the ‘gang’ will call me a ‘stick’ or a
| ‘grind,’ according to the part of this

college life that I neglect. I am always

in a hurry. Out side readings, problems
|and experiments must be in on time.
' Dates and appointments must be kept.

| “I must not disappoint my parents or
; my organization. They, too, seem to be-
| lieve that I must keep up the pace or
jelse be an utter failure. I want a cer-
| tain per cent of everything, but I am
| Satisfied with the taste of such a mix-
|ture. If I give too much attention to
| activities I ‘get kicked’ by instructors
}and by those who believe that the ulti-
| mate aim is high grades. If I pay too
; much attention to high grades I “get raz-
| zed’ by those interested in school’ poli-
tics, parties, publications, and so on and
|on,

“T haven’t time! The Utopia of my
soul, I believe, is a. place where I can
do as T please, when, I please, and take
all the time that I please in doing that
| thing without being rushed by this de-
|mon popularly called, ‘college educa-

| tion.’""—V. M. I. Cadet.

IN A NEW LIGHT

Criticism of college football by those
| who have never played the game has oc-
-eurred so frequently of late as to oc-
casion little or no excitement in under-
| graduate or alumni circles. But the pro-
nouncement of a man who has been not
only a player but a star in the sport is
entitled to gather consideration. “I be-
lieve quitely frankly that the majority
of college football players do not enjoy

Juniors

V. S. Broyles
| G. R. Sins
W. O. Green
T. F. Anderson
W. O. Puckett
J. C. Frierson
J. S. McRae

Sigma Pi Sigma
Senior
E. A. O'Neal

Sigma Upsilon
Juniors

A H. M. Austin
of the school. There are, at the present, 18 deniers L. D. Wharton
Wilmingtonians on the campus, but the club K. Bell T. G. McGutchen
has set a goal to have at least 25 in its mem- G. C. McMillan O. C. Ogden
chi ; session '26-'27, y
bership during the session '26-'27 Sophomores J. H. Caligan

B. F. Martin

J. F. Hollingsworth
W. T. Lingle
F. C. Withers

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Senior
R. F. Thompson

« STATESVILLE, N. C

Juniors
W. S. Woods
W. T. Davis

I. R. C.

Juniors
| H. M. Austin
' H. B. Bordeaux

| Sophomores
A. T. Dillard
D. H. Howard

Omega Phi Alpha
L. D. Wharton

| E. F. Bohannon
D. H. Stewart
W. C. Ogden

W. T. Covington

Scabbard and Blade
Senior
J. J. Earnhardt

NY

| playing the game,” says George Owen,

Jr., former Harvard all-round athlete, in
‘The Independent of November 7. Owen,
‘who had the unique distinction of win-
ning nine major letters while in college,
| captained three varsity teams and played
‘football on three elevens which defeated
‘Yale largely through his individual bril-
lanccy.

He admits of exceptions to his gener-
alization, but believes they are the men
who#would enjoy any fight. The real
reason for his dislike of. football lies in
the terrific grind necessary to keep in the
running. “You can’t play the game and
smile both.” Press publicity and the at-
titude of the alumnus, he believes, are the
factors which affect the players tre-
mendously. With the possibility of fail-
ure preying on his mind, tbe player’s
capacity for enjoyment of the game as
a game is, in many cases, completely
lost. Answering the question why he
plays the game, the writer points, out the
fine type of man with whom associations
are thus made and also the fact that pre-
paratory school experience makes it
practically impossible for a man to avoid
playing football when he reaches col-
lege. Considerable attention is paid to
the subject of alumni and alumni attitude
which he finds, at times ‘the most dis-
couraging thing of all.”

The subject is not a new one, nor is
the manner of treatment novel, yet the
article should attract considerable at-
tention in view of the source from whence
it comes. One cannot believe that the
writer, despite his apparent arraignment
of the sport, regrets for a moment his
participation in college football—Colum-
bia Spectator.

| IMPERIAL

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL WEEK

Starting March 15th
“THE
PHANTOM
OF THE
OPERA”

WITH
Lon Chaney, Mary Philbin,

Norman Kerry.

A Universal Super-Special

production.

} FELLOWS

We are always ready toserve
those delicious meals.

Come in any time

The New York Cafe

Charlotte, N. C.

Synonomous for

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL

good service---at just the right price

| “Davidsonians” play five nights a week
| during dinner hour
| “Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets

given special attention

MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON

excellent board and

H. L. SHAW, Jr.

|
|
| E. K. REGEN

+
