4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH. JR

VERNON S. BROYLES...-...-.

----.---Editor-in-Chief
----Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

i\4

Editor

WL, GING isis sc ucosbdantans tuaue uaa ene Managing
BOYCE MARTIN............... -Assistant Managing Editor
Fc Gi W THER Srasccasaocecuuiuaks pundactia bee Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB...._-_. --+-------.-..-.-Associate Editor
Dn fed PENN 2) 81; eo Ra pene ag ERE Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN “SS Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY-. Humorous Editor

»D. M. CALHOUN ---Alumni_ Editor
W. S. GORDON... ssignment Editor
P. F. JONFS..-.-. .----Feature Editor
T. T. JONES....:.----....-.-2.-..-.---... Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E, L, DOUGLASS_.._.-..2_._.-Assistant Business Manager
M_P. CRAWFORD...-___......-Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKF....--... ..-Assistant Business Manager
\ Aj MOMULEN Wiaiuusseccacescckasaiee Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT... -..Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY... -----.--.--.Service Manager
Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN

yOEN ek te eal T. T. JONES

OWN
J. L. ELY

L. WADSWORTH
TERS DILLARD

R. H. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
A, M: SPARROW
B. WILSON
WEAVER B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

THINK ON THESE THINGS

This fellow Perey Marks, instructor, au-
thor, and lecturer, has become a regular col-
legiate Mencken. Two years ago he startled
undergraduates into action by his rather
sensational portrayal of college life under
the title of The Plastic Age—nod now, just
like the critical machine gun that he is, he
hurls his devastating missiles against you
alumni. :

His latest attack, directed at the grad-
uates, is perhaps more extensive and inten-
sive than his charge on the undergraduates,
and is, perchance over-colored with a lot of
wrath-provoking “nonsense,” caleulated on-
ly to gain attention and stir up the “inert”

‘targets at which he is aiming. But, he’s got
your number, he’s adjusted his sights—and
his shots are hitting the mark, ,

Writing in the July Harpers Magazine, he
brings indictment after indictment against
the alumni of American colleges, and _ his
charges range all the way from a denounce-
ment of intellectual potentialities among the

- group he attacks to a charge that American
college alumni have a badly distorted idea
of loyalty to their alma mater.

“In discussing the alumni,” says Percy
Marks, “T do not feel any need for caution:
it is impossible to overstate their follies: it
is impossible to be unfair to them considered
in the mass. They are the visible and, worst
yet, audible evidence of the results of Ameri-
can education, and what a sorry sight they
are.

Acgording to Mr. Marks, the alumni are a
bunch of colorless Babbitts, self-imposing
and bothersome stockholders in their alma
maters ; theirs is evil influence which is kill-
ing education beneath its demands for stand-
ardization of students; they are an unin-
telligent group of poker players, rounders
and perverted sportsmen, who think them-
selves capable of shaping arid directing the
curricula: and student activities of the col-
leges from which they have come; and fur-
thermore, they are ‘a veritable milestone
about the neck of the college president who
desires to substitute a bit of scholastic pro-
ficiency for some of the athletic supremacy,
already enjoyed by the college. ;

Those are bold charges, and the majority
of them have only a slight basis of truth, If
our alumni were either as bad or as all-
powerful as Professor Marks portrays them,
then H. G. Wells would certainly not have
overlooked him in his far-reaching and ver-
bal onslaught against the colleges a few
months ago. The alumni are powerful, their
influence is a prime factor in the establish-
ment of a successful college—and, luckily,
neither Marks nor his colleagues have pic-
tured them true to life.

You are a great bunch of fellows, you
alumni, and you are capable of making of
your alma mater just what you-would have
her. Athletic stadiums are great things, do-

nations for the salary of effici is
not to be underestimated in its worth to the
college—but there are things more im-
portant and more profitable than either
stadiums or coaches.

Athletes do advertise a college and bring

Cn -

y «

students to it, but the type of man who
comes to a college simply because. it at-
tracts and buys athletes is heardly the type
of student that your alma mater desires to
gather into its student body. Harvard is a
living refutation to the contention that a
few unsuccessful athletic seasons will ruin a
college. Harvard has been suffering set-
back after set-back on the athletic field, yet
last fall it had to shut its doors to great
hordes of students who were seeking places
within its walls.

The idea that a college grows great be-
cause of athletic prowess has been accepted
throughout the land, and Dartmouth has

been frequently pointed out as a proof of

this supposition. But, Dartmouth grew
great because of the well-regulated enthu-
siasm of its alumni in things equally as im-
portant to the college as the athletic teams.
“Sport for sport’s sake has become a mere
slogan,” says Mr. Marks, “and such over-
emphasis by alumni on the value of athletics
gives the undergraduates a false sense of
values that is injurious both to them and to
the college,”

The importance of alumni interest in ath-
letics is not to be overlooked, nor should the
harm that might result from it be consider-
ed too lightly. We must avoid extremes, we
must maintain a sober and sane view on the
college and its responsibilities.

Alumni, when they are able, should con-
tribute to the building of stadiums, to the
support of capable coaches, and to the main-
tenance of good athletic teams. But, if they
would see their alma mater in the place of
preéminence it deserves, they must also
grapple with the other needs of the college
and its undergraduate students. What of
the duty that falls on the alumni to improve
campus conditions, to see that dormitory and
classroom facilities are adequate, to keep
students interested in these days of distrac-
tion in the things even more vital than ath-
letics?

Chambers building, the dream of the col-
lege authorities, is still incomplete. Its
wing stands as a_ pertinent reminder
of the need of alumni interest in other
things. The vacant pulpit in the college
church should proclaim Davidson’s need for
active interest on the part of alumni in the
religious welfare of its undergraduate stu-
dents. The absence of many important
courses from our curriculum; the crying
need for more iustructors; the lack of a de-
partment for the education of students along
the lines of music, art, and dramatics; the
long-felt desire for bigger appropriations
for the debating teams, so as to enable stu-
dents interested in forensic activities to
secure a full-time coach; and, finally, the
need for a change in library conditions—do
not these all commend themselves to the
alumni? Are they not worthy of at least a
little interest among our graduates? Do
they not warrant concerted action among
the fellows who think only of their college
as a place where either
letic teams are made? ,

If there be any truth, if there be any vir-
tue, Mr, Alumnus, think on these things!

That game at Lynchburg in which the
Wildcats lost to the V. M. I. Cadets was a
model of clean and courageous football. The
two teams, the officials, and even the specta-
tors displayed the finest sort of sportsman-
ship. The remarkable comeback staged in
the second period by the Cadets spelled
doom for the Wildcats, who in defeat paused
long enough to pay tribute to their gallant
adversaries. We had hoped for a Davidson
victory, and the wonderful showing of our
men against the Virginia team adds to our
pride in the Red and Black; but, V. M. I.
won—and won by a brand of football that
we all admire.

D

It has been suggested that athletic authorities
at Davidson insure the never-failing toe of Dick
Grey against any possible loss. In view of the
fact that Ziegfield beauties have frequently in-
demnified themselves against the loss of valu-
able portions-of their anatomy, this suggestion
does not seem amiss. Three times this year
Dick has booted the pigskin through the cross-
bars for the only Wildcat scores, twice his
deadly aim has brought Davidson to victory,
once a tie, and twice again his uncanny precision
has won us additional counters.

D
NIX ON KNICKERS

The Department: of student life at the North.
Carolina College for Women has called the at-
tention of students to an article in the handbook,
which prohibits the wearing of knickers on the

front..campus__or_in._the_diningroom,—says—the-

Carolinian, “North Carolina's Most Readable Col-

‘lege Joturnal.’ There appears in the same issue a

notice that the N. C. C. W. girls have lpaid a fee
of $1.60, which entitles them to the use of swim-
ming suits for their four years of college life.

*

good or rotten ath- _

Welcome to

Our Alumni

FROM THE FACULTY

A real Davidson alumnus is one who is always
enthusiastic for the best interest: of his college.
The majority of students who come here have
had their attention directed to Davidson by
alumni.
college, and cherishes in his heart her noble tra-
ditions. It was not until recent years that espe-
cial effort was made to get alumni to return to
the campus in large groups. Commencement late-
ly has not had the interest that characterized it in
former years. The renewed interest in athletics,
the featuring of home-coming games, together
with excellent new athletic equipment, field and
stadium the gift of two loyal alumni—along with
such other features as Davidson College Day,
Stunt Night, etc., create a reason and desire for
alumni to come back.

It is a great source of satisfaction to the faculty,
to the alumni secretary, who has promoted the
return idea, and to every member of the student
body, to have the campus alive with old students.
we know that with the passing years, you will
love Old Davidson more and more, and that your
love for her is only exceeded by that of the men
now on the campus. We heartily welcome all
visiting alumni.

F. L. JACKSON, Treasurer.

FROM THE STUDENT BODY

Our hearts are made giad this day to. see so
many of you old graduates returning to enjoy
once more the associations and memories of your
college days. Your return has made us more
certain than ever that our college days at David-
son are not to be forgotten upon graduation, but
that they are to serve as a source of pleasure and
memories as long as we live.

We welcome you back to the campus, Mr.
Alumnus. We trust that you will find the col-
lege today in better condition than ever before.
We hope that you will approve of the manner in
which we are maintaining the old _ traditions,
which you left to us as a heritage upon your grad-
uation. We believe that this day among us will
cement the ties between alumni, faculty, and un-
dergraduates—and that you will leave us this day
more determined than ever to make of Davidson
tlie college it deserves to be. Welcome!

JAMES F, PINKNEY,

President Student Body.

Every Davidson man is proud of his |

FROM THE Y. M.C. A.

Welcome home again. It is fine to see you
here, and we hope that you will enjoy every min-
ute of Home-coming Day. We hope you will find
that Davidson has grown in spirit as well as in
size, and that you have the same affection for the
Davidson of 1926 as you had for the Davidson of
your own years. Join us to make its future
growth more certain, and to enable it to perform
for others, the same. great service that we have
received. May you find friendships old and new,
a winning team and the realization of many of
your hopes for the college. We welcome you most
heartily.

W. A. CHRISTIAN, JR.,
President Y. M.C. A.

FROM THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION

Say, old timer, shake hands! Glad to see you
back again:--Was afraid you had forgotten us
down here, now that you’re out battling with the
cold, cold world—with maybe a family of your
own to support. But, say, you mustn’t forget the
great old family here at Davidson, of which you
are as much a member as we, your younger
brothers. Sorry I can’t stop to’talk with you
about the many improvements that have been

uniform for the game. I hear Jake Wade and
some of his colleagues of the Press have “doped”
us to lose to Carolina this afternoon. Sounds bad,
but say—you know those Wildcats. Glad to have
you back today.
ERNEST F. BOHANNON,
President Athletic Association.

FROM THE DAVIDSONIAN

A real Home-coming. Day at last, and with
enough doing to fill up next week’s paper in a
jiffy. If for no other reason than that, we’d be
glad to see you old fellows back amongst us. But,
we're glad you’re. back for a lot more reasons—
glad to see you interested in the great little Wild-
cat team, glad to see you interested in the im-
provements on our athletic field, glad to see you
walking about over the campus and realizing
again how much the college has done for us all.
Of course, if you hadn’t come, the “livest wire on
the hill” would have told you all about the big
celebration and game next week—but, that’s too
far away. And, anyhow, you came——

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR., Editor.

pon

anne aeonaneaere re

4

| Where Chamderr’ Valls Stood

The Art of Bumming

I

The autumn glow now softly sleeps
Where Chambers’ walls have stood;
A slow wind, breathing gently, creeps
From out the soundless wood.

II

The yellow leaves now one by one
Fall idly to the sod, :

Where four gray arms of aged stone
Point mutely up to God.

III Va
The requiem of the year is sung;
The summer’s breath grows chill;
And musing here, both heart and tongue,
By some strange power are still.

IV
For who, where those lone pillars tower,
Has paused in pensive mood,
Yet failed to sense a nameles power
Go thrilling thru his blood?

Vv

A spirit speaks from cach bare stone
Of hopes that blossomed there; ’
And those scarred arms upraised, alone,
Shine with a radiance fair.

VI
No figured marble monument
Could voice more eloquence—
The deathless worth that faith has meat,—
Of life’s inconsequence.
2 VII
The vision of the years yet stands
Of those, who in the night
Have held the torch to other hands
Undimmed, a sacred light.
VIII
And shail we fail that hallowed faith,
Nor venerate that trust,
Although the dreams of their last breath,
Shattered, have: come to dust?
IX
And, though a fairer flower arise
Upon that selfsame spot,
Shall that first beauty in our eyes
Be nameless and forgot?

x
Shall we who walk so lowly here,

a

Because bumming is such a peculiarly delicate
art, and because Davidson students are so largely
dependent on that mode of transportation, the
Davidsonian has decided to put into print—largely
for the benefit of certain freshman—the following
brief codification of the ethics of bumming. sya

I, Never infringe upon a motorist’s hospitality
by crowding upon him more students than he ex-
pected or than he is willing to carry.

2. To sit in a man’s car, as his guest, and make
fun of him behind his back, is unpardonable.

3. Hf someone is on the road, looking for a
ride, when you arrive, it is, to say the least, selfish
and tactless to force your company upon him
without an invitation. “One man stands a hundred
per cent better chance of getting a ride than two.

4. It is not a slick trick to sneak around and
take a position on the road above a man who was
there before you were. It is both unethical and
boorish.

5. Always remember that Davidson is being
judged by your conduct. » &

Two baby. girls were found living in a
fowl den in India, according to a dispatch
in a New York paper. That completely sub-
stantiates the charges by Mr. Cross, former
University of Illinois student, that the girls
are getting wilder and wilder.

Polo is a popular sport at the eastern col-
leges, but we believe it should be ruled off
the American campus—there’s: too much
horse-play in it!

Of what is best, hold no more dear
Their heart’s first ardent glow?

XI
O rather, may we consecrate
Our strength, our life, our all
To lift that banner high, that hate
And littleness may fall!

XII

| Orather, may those things abide, ~
The tried, the true, the good !—

The dream of those who lived and died
Where Chambers’ walls have stood!

So little prone to know

—JAMES H. CALIGAN.

made_since you left us—but, we’ve got to-get-in-—
