4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

The Davidsonian

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class ;

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH......--.--.--- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE..-.---------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF :
desacaanocs e-cse-oeo---- Managing. Editor.
Assistant Managing Fditor
Assistant Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
.-Associate Editor
.-Associate Editor
_.Associate Editor
Humorous Editor
...-.-Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

W. _H. BRANCH..
L. D. WHARTO
F, K. BELL _.
W. E. MILTON
R. B. PARKER.
A. Y. BOWTIE

A. HW. HOLLINGSWORTH.
GARNETT. McMILLAN...
1, 8 WEBB

SHBIEBVacrseras

Business Staff
.-------Business Manager
sistant Business Manager
stant Business Manager
.-Circulation Manager
Supscription Manager
Assistant
Service Department
...---Assistant

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES
V. 8. BROYLES. V.:Pres..  W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.B. MARTIN
W. H. ALTISON R. H, McILWAINE
H. M_AUSTIN LP}

C. L, RRAGAW ‘A,
D. M CALHOUN
W. T. COVINGTON
Av. T) DAVIS

W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN

EDITORIAL

Bottoms up to the Ideal Girl! Who is she?

Greensboro has come and

J. WHARTON

TR. WILSON

C. WITHERS

W._S. WOODS

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

Paradise Lost.
gone,
D
The track meet on the 27th of this month
should uncork some further material among
the high schools,

The central anatomy of the snow man
that was made by a budding young scupltor
last week, still exists, although in a greatly
modified form,

D:

To parody Mark Twain, everybody here
at,Davidson talks about the weather, but
nobody does anything about it.

D

A skull 20,000 years old was found in Ari-
zona last month and this same skull was
two inches thick. It was immediately sent
to Washington and all without the formality
of an election.

We hear that the editors of the college
newspaper at Meredith have to submit ev-
ery line that they write to the faculty editor
hefore it is printed. Ah, well

The letters back and forth are getting
more frequent since Speaking is in the air.
Uncle Sam is a mighty handy old gentle-
man when you have only two cents, some
blank paper and a heart full of burning
thoughts. :

The Dramatic Club is about to get under
way for its spring season. The first en-
gagement on the spring schedule is at Lex-
ington, where the young dramatists are to
present that laugh-provoking little skit—-
“Tailor Made.” Then the boys will go to
Queens College the following Friday eve-
ning, where they will present three onc-
act plays for their audience of “ideal girls.”

D
A REPLY

The Charlotte News replied to our editor-
ial concerning the recent, disastrous trip of
the Glee Club to Charlotte, and thereby
acknowledged about every scathing remark
that we made. Their expression was one
of self-condemnation because of the poor
showing that the Queen City made at the
concert. Twenty-two souls with two com-
plimentary tickets.

This article said that the spanking ad-
ministered through the editorial columns of
this paper was well deserved and that Char-
lotte deserves the drubbing it got. Since
-past-events-are-beyond_recall, we'll have to
call off any proposed duels for our honor
with Charlotte. We hope, however, that
the next time the inhabitants of that city
see some posters advertising Davidson, that
they will get some educated person to read
it to them so that they will understand and
appreciate the important advertising carried
thereon.

MAKING THE GRADES

The recent refusal of a Senior at the Uni-
versity of Kansas to accept a bid to the Phi
Beta Kappa fraternity of that institution
has engendered much comment through the
collegiate and other publications. Such a
decision has shocked many and perhaps it
will be a revelation to others.

The letter that follows is self-explana-
tory,

“Kansas Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa:

“T wrote this letter with. hesitating fing-
ers, fearing that | may not make clear just
how [ feel when T say T am declining the
honor of membership in Phi Beta Kappa. T
appreciate deeply the honor that has been
extended to me. My reasons for not ac-
cepting-it are presented in the following
paragraphs :

“T do not subseribe to the ideal of the
high grade which T understand is the ideal
of Phi Beta Kappa. T honestly believe that
in the circumstances of our state univer-
sities today, with their large classes and in-
dividual treatment, to strive for grades is
detrimental to the best interests of scholar-
ship. To get an ‘\’ requires a degree of
docility and useless industry that is fatal to
the independence, initiative and spirit of ad-
venture which are the very life blood, it
seems to me, of the true scholar and
scientist.

“In short, | feel that the grade system of
our schools is a false critgron of scholarship
and is a dangerous foundation for intellect-
ual idealism and achievement.

“T recall, as T write, my own experience
with grades, for T sadly admit that many of
the “\’s’ came through the path of ‘grind-
ing,’ ‘cramming,’ ‘doing what the “prof” ex-
pects,’ and ‘working for grades.’ T feel that
I have sacrificed my own development for
the empty honor of a grade. T feel that this
is the price of our honoring of high grades.
Of course if high grades and high scholar-
ship were synonymous, there would be no
point in what T say. But in our academic
system where so much of the educational
process is formal T do not see how it is pos-
sible for a student to be a ‘straight A man’
without wasting much of his energies on
the forms and husks. which are inevitable in
courses which are taught, not to individuals,
but to classes of 20, 50,100 and 150.

oe T do not believe that T would be
honest and fair to the organization if T
joined it when I have so little confidence in
the efficiency of its high grade measure of
scholarship (I do not agree with those who
say, ‘Well, it is the best we can have under
the circumstances’). I do not see that it
would be playing square with the scholastic
standing of Phi Beta Kappa if I accepted
membership upon. the basis of my past
records and then proceeded to ignore, as I
am trying to do, grades for the rest of my
academic career, ..” :

One cannot but admire the candor and
evident sincerity with which this communi-
cation is written. It would require, how-
ever an intimate knowledge of the facts con-
cerned withthe case for one to decide
whether this young man took the right
course. One would have to know the con-
ditions of study, the courses offered, the
grading methods of the instructors and oth-
er facts.

ut if the charge is true “that the grade
system of our schools is a false criterion of
scholarship and is a dangerous foundation
for intellectual idealism and achievement,”
then such a reward as a Phi Beta key is more
or less an empty and hollow honor. If, how-
ever, scholarship and high grades are sy-
nonymous, then such a reward is deserved
and the wearer should feel himself highly
honored. :

We wonder whether the extremely high
grades made by members of the Senior class
and which were published in this paper, are
a true index of the learning of those individ-
uals. One professor on the campus was
heard to remark that the grades were too
high and that they would be laughed at at
such a place as Harvard or Yale.

Which all brings up the question whether
striving after high grades and subsequent
honors destroys that initiative, that original,
inquiring mind that always seeks to discover
for itself and is not content to have worn
and well-padded facts and figures thrust at
it. Will a course of such a nature bring out
the inquiring, pioneer spirit of a man? Will
he be better educated if he tries to formu-
late rules for himself, and does research
work for which he never receives credit
on_the_books_of_the_professor?—Such can
best be answered by the individual.
he who passes through four years of col-
lege and is expected to have an education
when he leaves there.

D.

Time to stand pat on the last of the stu-
dent elections. Vote for the best man and
may he always win.

It is:

|
|

|

College Comment

I stole so many kisses

My lips began to sag,

And then that woman!

She hid the candy bag.
—Maroon and Gold.

Oh, how she liked my petting,
Her eyes were proof of that—
Yet too sleepy [ was getting
To nurse and stroke the cat.

Spring term examinations are held at Wood-
berry Forest School, Virginia, before the spring
All students who make a grade of 70 or
over are allowed to leave two days before the for-
mal closing of college for the holidays. Those
who fail to pass all subjects are requiréd to stay
one day for each subject failed. If more than two
subjects are failed they are required to take re-
exams after the holidays.

holidays.

Wesleyan University Glee Club won first place

the Annual Inter-Collegiate Glee Club Con-
test held in New York on Saturday,¢March 6th,
with a toal of 265.1 poins from a possible 300.
The prize song was “The Lamp in the West.”
Princeton won second place, University of Kan-
sas third, and Columbia University fourth.

The Blackfriars from Agnes Scott are planning
to give three, one-act, local talent plays in the
Charlotte High School auditorium, on the night
of March 27th. Charlotte alumni have promised
to pay their expenses and to give their organiza-
tion half the proceeds. This, no doubt, will be a
nice trip for the girls, but in view of the recent
support given the Davidson College Glee Club by
a Charlotte audience, we warn them against the
too high hope of financial enrichment as a_re-
sult of this trip.

The Daddy Long Legs Club of Ohio State
University, whose aims are longer bath tubs and
taller girls, will hold a meeting in the near future
again.

Sixty Ohio State six-footers, including ten Buck-
eye varsity football stars, are members of the
club. So is Dr. J. W. Wilce, head coach, who is
6 fect, 2 1-2 inches tall.

Among other aims of the organization are long-
er beds, longer berths on trains, higher awnings,
higher doorways, higher telephone booths, more
space between rows of theatre seats and more
space between seats and steering wheels in auto-
mobiles.

We see by the front page of The New Student
that a University of Nebraska graduate claims
that college wasted four years of his life.

We have yet to hear from the University in
question as to how much of its time this same
student wasted,

—The New Student.

While Converse is conducting her “Ideal Man”
contest, and Davidson, her “Ideal Girl,” two en-
tirely different proceedings are taking place at
Georgia Tech. The first of these is a contest for
the election of the biggest Charleston Tea Hound
on the campus. The winner will receive a hand-
some loving cup and his picture will appear in the
rotograveure section of the Atlanta papers. The
second affair is an effort on the part of the Pi
Delta Epsilon Journalistic Fraternity to grade
members ofthe faculty. The points to be con-
sidered are as follows: (1) His knowledge of the
subject; (2) His ability to teach it; (3) his popu-
larity with the students; (4) Fairness; (5) Sense
of responsibility. The results of the examination
are to be strictly confidential, and no reports will
be given except in terms of their general average.

Minor Chords

MY IDEAL GIRL
My ideal girl—awhat a task to find
That type of beauty of a different kind!
Not young—not old—nineteen would do,
With a heart that beats with a love so true,
With eyes so deep and of such a brown
That in their depths your dreams might drown ;
Lips. that would flush with a fiery red,
"Neath glistening tears that her eyes would shed;
A skin so soft, so lovely fair,
And framed with the beauty of her hair;
A heart that would beat with Love's response
While a kiss on her lips you might ensconce ;
With a will that’s strong, yet aspirit kind,
Perfect in body, in heart, in mind.
An angel on earth, a goddess of love
Sent down to me by the God's above,
That she might match my heart, might case my pain—
I found her—I had her—now she’s gone again.
Like a fleeting fancy, a vanishing mist,
Oh cruel Destiny, with crushing fist
Bring back that girl to this life now blind,
Lead me on and on—my ideal to find!
ae —Harllee Branch, Jr.

Ai
WATTLES FEO
OS) PLA LM MDB

ate

Whose Ideal Man Is This?

THE IDEAL GIRL

"You know,” drawled Sed Seau, the county’s
cleanest dirt farmer, as he spat out a pint of
amber-colored tobacco juice at a fly on the old
mare’s back, “You know, these here college boys
up inthe town air havin’ one of these ideal gal
contests.”

“Whut do you mean by a ideal gal, Sed?”
queried Upan Attem, his: traveling companion.

“Wal, hit’s jest thisaway, as near as I kin
figger hit. Theze here fellers think they can pick
out an ideal gal. Goodness knows whar they'll
find’ her, fer I looked fer a ideal gal fer nigh on-
to four year afore I fin’ly had ter take Hannah,
er else die a old bach’ler, an’ you know, I jest
nach’ly don’t like to batch.”

“The nighest I ever cum ter findin’ my ideal
gal wuz when I got kicked by that ole gray mule
o’ mine, back here last summer, an’ I saw tweny-
| seven stars and a host o' angels,” said his friend.

| My ideal girl
Must have a curl
Right down the middle
Of her forehead,

When she’s good

She must be very good—
And when she's bad

She must be torrid,

WE RECOMMEND

For ideal girls:

Movie queens.

Camel advertisements.

Blind dates.

Pretty waitresses.

Girls we have JUST met.

Hard Hearted Hannahs.

Peggy O’Neals.

When’er I see a beauty

My head goes in a whirl;

But I may look the whole world over
And never find my ideal girl.

Some like high-browns,

Others like brunettes,

But the kind of girl that I like
Never pets.

Many fall for pretty blondes,

For henna and peroxide,

But the girl I want will have to say:
“I’ve never dyed.”

Our mental conception of an ideal girl:

Hair: Henna or sauer kraut.

Forehead: High and wide.

Eyes: Black, white, and crossed.

Nose: Roaming,

Mouth: Big.

Teeth: White and gold; alternating.

Cheeks: Yes.

Chin: Double or triple.

Neck: Yes.

Age: Anywhere between 18 and 45.

Height: Not over 6 feet 6.

Weight: 180.

Disposition: Sour.

If mentality is responsible forthe conception of
this ideal girl we think someone should purchase
a one-way ticket to Morganton.

“I deal,” said the bridge shark as he gathered
up the cards,

If you think YOU are an ideal girl, buy a round-
trip ticket to Davidson, and if WE think you are
you can throw the last half of your ticket away.

FAMOUS IDEAL GIRLS
| Joan of Arc.
| Your roommate’s girl.
The heroine in the movie.
YOUR girl.
| The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi.
Pretty little Blue-eyed Sally.
The girl you will never meet.
