THE

DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Return of Sappenfield
Raises Students’ ” Hopes

Quarterback of Tv of Two Seasons
Returns for Final Year on
Davidson Team

The heart of every old Davidson student
was greatly gladdened this fall when he ar-
rived and found out that Nick Sappent. 1!
was back in college, and was out for football,
as good as he was before he was hurt last
fall, in the first game of the season. Nick
had to remain out of school for the re-
mainder of the first semester last year, but
returned to take up his studies at the begin-
ning of the second. When he arrived he had
a very noticeable limp, and the students
feared that he would be unable to play this
year.

Nick Sappenfield came to Davidson in the
fall of 1922 as a freshman from Concord,
N. C., and he immediately went to work with
the freshman “squad, and easily made the
team. The next year he was the first string
quarterback, and has remained at that posi-
tion until he was injured last fall, and Jim

Hendrix shifted to his place. For two years

Nick has been the headiest quarterback in |

North Carolina, and true lovers of the fall
sport are gladdened at his return to the game.
During the time that Nick has been at the |
quarterback position of the team, he has
guided Davidson to some very well-earned |
victories, chief among them being over Rich- |
mond, twice over Wofford, twice over Duke,
and a victory over Clemson.

Not only the Davidson student body wel- |

comes Nick back to school, but the footbatl
lovers from all over North Carolina are glad
to know that Nick is able to be back at
school, and better still, is able to play foot-
ball again.

STADIUM WILL BE READY
(Continued from page 1)
in the time limit, which was six weeks. That |
leaves another month, since the
been in progress two weeks.

According to the original plans a press
box was to be included in the center of the
field; it has been decided to build a substan-
tial temporary one separate. The press box
will be sufficiently large to comfortably seat |
10 reporters. It is planned to have it ready |
for the first game, if possible.

This stadium was made possible through
the foresight and generosity of H. S. and L.
Richardson, brothers, of Greensboro ‘and
New York, who were also the donors of
Richardson Field. H, S. Richardson, the |

oldest of the two brothers, entered Davidson |
in 1906 and later received an appointment to |

Annapolis. He began his career as advertis-
ing manager of Vick’s Salve. Today, this
product has a sale of over 21,000,000 jars an-
nually, The home office of the company is
in Greensboro, and offices have recently been
established in New York and Philadelphia.
Not content with the widespread popularity
the medicine has gained in the United States,
Mr. Richardson spent several months in Eng-
land introducing his product in that country.

Lunsford Richardson graduated from Da-
vidson in the class of 1914 and entered upon
his business career immediately as a member
of the firm producing Vick’s Salve. Today
he is vice-president and general manager of
the company of which his brother is presi-
dent.

work has |

Many Improvements and

All Fraternities

This, the second year of chapter houses at
Davidson, finds all the fraternities off the

town.

funds can be raised to build peramanent
chapter houses. :

The Phi Gamma Delta and the Sigma.
Alpha Epsilon fraternities, the first two to |
move off the campus last year, are in the |
same placés this year, with Mrs. White and
Mrs. Graham as house mothers. Only.a lim-
ited number of men room in the houses, the
Phi Gamma Delta house accommodating

ten, but both places board the entire chapters.
Across from the Phi Gamma Delta house,
next to the High School, is the Beta Theta
| Pi house, rooming 12 men and also boarding
the entire chapter. Mrs,
| mother for the Betas,
| The Kappa Sigmas this year are occupying
{the house of Mrs. Archie Brown, across
{from the Methodist church, with Mrs. Brown
| as house mother. There are eight boys in
but they will run no table until

Long is the house

j the house,
| after the football season,

|liamson place on North Main.
has been repaired, and they*have as matron
| Mrs. M. C. Willis, of York, S. C. The Pi
K. A.’s are
| boarding all of them,
Different from the rest is the K. A. house
jon North Main, next Wood.
| No men will board or room in it, but it has
| been repaired and remodeled inside and will
be used as a meeting place and hall, much as
| the old hall was.

The house occupied by the Pi Kappa Phi’s
|is the old Sigma Delta place on North Main
© | street. This house has for its house mother
| Mrs, Rogers, of Laurens, S. C. The Sigma
| Deltas have moved to Mrs. Brady's, on
| South Main, with Mrs. ‘Brady as house moth-
[st Each house rooms about eight men, as
p well as boarding the chapter.

| Mrs. Crawford’s house on North Main is
rented by the Theta Upsilon Omegas, and
| Mrs. Crawford is house mother. - There are
| eight. men in the house, and like most of the
| others, all board there-

This being only the cri year that
fraternity houses have been at Davidson, only
a few chapters own their houses, and even
these will be rebuilt later. Shrould the ex-
periment prove successful, within a few
years all the chapters hope to be in new
homes of their own.

to Professor

STUDENTS RETURN

(Continued from page 1)
greatly broadened. New courses are being
offered in Geology, Biology, Sociology, Busi-
ness Administration, and Psychology. The |
scope of other courses has also been enlarge |

What is so rare a sympathy for a sick
professor?

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE-CREAM:

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS

Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Adler Collegian and Campus Togs
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

15 East Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.

Exclusive Agents. For

The Famous Selz Shoes

Campus and Buildings During Vacation

Occupy New Homes

campus and most, of them in houses out in |
In most cases these houses are to be |
occupied only temporarily, being rented until | ¥

eight and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house }

The Pi K. A.’s have bought the old Wil- |
The house |

rooming two boys there and |

Changes Made On Three Men Lost by
Davidsonian Staff

Three vacancies have occurred in The
Field Improved Dormitories Davidsonian staff this year. F. K. Bell, J.
Renovated | F. Hollingsworth, and Garnett, MeMillan,
| SS | Jr., all of whom greatly aided the publica-
| Students returning to ‘the Davidson | tion of The Davidsonian last year, failed to
Campus found that numerous changes | Teturn. Appointments will be made for these
in the way of improvements had taken | Vacancies by the editor as soon as possible.
place during their absence. A force Bt _ Kenneth Bell served as Exchange Editor
workmen were employed practically all} till the latter Dart ot last year, when he Needs
vacation in renovating, painting and re- appointed Associate Editor. During his
| modeling the various buildings. Sophomore year he was a member of the
‘ : | Reporters’ Club and: was a member of the
: The chemical laboratory has been re- | Junior Magazine staff last year.
finished and repainted throughout. The) Garnett McMillan: served Hunbrens

walls and ceiling were painted, all the | | Editor of The Davidsonian last year, editing

equipment mended and new articles ‘add Ithe “Peanut Parcher.” Last spring he was

od. » .) al la F | ; 3 are
ped ; The biologic al laboratory Was the | appointed Associate Editor of the new staff.
recipient of new fixtures with the ad-

1 bei 3 z | He was a member of the Reporters’ Club and

Vv re : SE8 _ ace < 2 ; .

ete paSdoe veing placed in the frst was on the Junior Magazine staff last year.
oor of Shearer hall which was reno- J, F. Hollingsworth was also a good, work-

Biology Department Moved—Fresh

as

vated and new tables, cabinets, stands er on the staff last year. He was a member

and all kinds of new equipment Were) of the Reporters’ Club and was appointed

placed there. Assignment Editor on the new staff last
A notable improvement was made on! spring.

the freshman athletic
leveled and rolled, and with excavations:
for the stadium much additional
space has been added. This field is now
in excellent for the freshman
athletics and will furnish sufficient room
\for the OF eto drill
ground.

field, The ground ‘The Joss of several members of the staff is,

however, greatly compensated by the return
of PLF.
ing Editor the first part of last year when he
was in school here. He was a member of
the Reporters’ Club, Golden Quill, Delta Pi
Kappa, and the
staff last year.

new

Jones. Jones was Assistant Manag-

condition

R. use for Junior Speaking Magazine

Richardson has
jturf and the
ithe practice

a

field good, deep,
crisp green grass on both
field and the playing. field
adds greatly to the beauty and value of
ithe field. Special attention was paid to
| the fields during the summer months and
men worked incessantly that
the sod might in readiness the
opening of the football season,

All of the dormitories
over with the
place

CONGLOMERATE VIEW

(Continued from page 1)

Speaking still of speaking—what orators
the latest acquired class must cherish within
its midst! eyes deceive us the
very pulpit of the established church is to
soon be blessed by having a neophyte pastor
blazon forth his puerile message from its
leven the feel
trepidity upon their first unannounced forum
The bashful
rear seats and select the con-

in order Unless our

be at
were worked

greatest improvements | ¢Minence. bravest, @however,

taking in) Georgia and Rumple
The walls and ceilings were given several | @ppearance.
coats of paint and after all the cracks’ their modest :
jand crevices were gone over with plas- | ventional entrance their : abs
| tering. New phases have been added to |Proach. Alas, the younger generatoin must
\the dormitory rules, mentioning, among] be served, Judge Lincoln, of the graybeards,
| those new rules, the manner of hanging
| pictures. and curtains. Mrs. Smith adage whose chief nouns are :
SAMI a special effort in order that} On the other hand consider
| the se rules may be enforced and that the | extreme. We refer
| dormitory rooms will have

appearance at all times.

Seniors resume

as means of

is |

a presentable |
} vertebral lining into a room graced exclu

| blued by
} . .
| message entrusted to his deliverance.

College Organizations
; Occupy Old Old Buildings co::ive« the lip hue,

| other details remain essentially true

This is supposed to be a table of statistics
as well as a record of rare anecdotes. Here
North Carolina has the lagest repre-
At least

unnatural but all

| Former Fraternity nity Halls Given Over

| to Various School Activities l'goes,

sentation in the present fresh class.
it should have.® All new men have signed up
for A.B., B.S.,
| About 98 per cent or so of the recent arrivals
The other 2

For the first time since social fraternities
were established at Davidson, they will have
quarters off the campus. Last year there

| were four such organizations occupying Elm
and Oak Row, but their halls have been va-

either or Special courses.

are homesick. per cent are home

| products of our fair hamlet. Among the
| cated, and authorities at Davidson are desig- | fields to be revolutionized by these sturdy
nating them for other types of organizations. ;men-of ’30 are the following: Ministerial,

| That end of Oak Row formerly occupied medical, journalistic, and cotton,

by the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity will this class is very promising. A few extreme
given to the Student Council. This will as-| optimists prophesy that as many as 13 or 14
sist them to properly function in this impor- | will last the entire four years and purchase
tant phase of student life. Not only will the | their all-leather dip.
| Student Council convene here, but also sev-| Ags yet very few of the novices have been
eral honorary fraternitiés, including Omicron | jntiated into the mysterious art of masticat-
Delta Kappa, will hold their meetings here. | ing and expectorating the filthy weed. This
In the other end of Oak Row, the old part of their college education should be mas-
| Kappa Sigma hall, The Davidsonian will use | tered before Christmas recess.

}

| as its office.

All in all

be

It has been
For several years The David-| well suggested that the Soph instructors. in
,sonian has been working under a handicap | this manly occupation conduct small classes
in that they did not possess adequate room | on consecutive weeks in order that the in-
for working. Giving them one end of Oak  firmary
Row will afford them an opportunity to work | wish to
| mofe comfortably and more efficiently than | | therein.
in the past.

| The northern end of Elm Row will be a
faculty club room. It will be arranged in a
| manner that will make it a delightful ‘place |

may amply accommodate all who
while away week-end

a reposing

Bobby was hitting on all four though when’
said:

“A man’s a man for a’ that”

he

must follow (figuratively, of course) the old
rod, and child.
the opposite
to the fresh who awe-
| somely protruded the medulla portion of his

| sively by Juniors and Seniors, and with lips
fear announced to those within a
Per-
haps a misplacement of fountain pen fluid

Halt! See! Hear!
Three peanuts to be given away in prizes!
Far surpassing anything in the way of
contests, this department is making a vigor-
ous effort to enlighten the minds of all its
readers at the expense of none, and the profit
of all. Each week “The Peanut Pafcher”
will award a prize of two roasted peanuts to
that person turning in during the week the
best definition of a given word, to be an-
nounced by the editor one week in advance;
and a prize of one raw peanut for the second
best definition. The word for next week is
‘Love.” Turn your answers in to the editor
of The Peanut Parcher and see your name in
print. Come one, come all! You,can’t miss!

€

Town News

Dr. C. M.. Richards, who has_ been
spending the summer in the Holy Land
and Europe is expected to return this
week.

Miss Fannie McBryde of-Linden, N. C.,
is with Mrs. L. R. Smith for a few weeks.

Mr. Lex Kluttz, of Columbia, S. C., at
he head of the Near East Relief work in
his state was a Davidson visitor Satur-
day.

Tal-
Prof.

Rogers was

Dr. and Mrs. of
lahassee, Fla., were the guests of
W. W. Wood last week. Dr.

a member of the class of 'o8.

Hudson Rogers,

Mrs. Richards and daughter, Miss
Sophie have just returned from Europe.

McDowell who has been a

Rhodes scholar

Richards,

for three years, has re-

turned.

Mrs. Buckner, of Montreat, has moved

to Davidson.

of Jackson-
sister, Mrs.

Baskerville,
visiting her

Miss Gordon
ville, Fla.,

Robertson.

is

Miss Charlotte Hunter left Monday to
resume her studies at Agnes Scott.

Miss Ellen Black is visiting here.

Miss Mary Hamilton has returned to

Converse College.

© 00 000000000000000 000000 0OSOOOOOOOOOSOOOO®
; Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST

Building. Court Street Entrance Com-
sahil srt al Rantcpal Bank Building

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Huurs: Daily 8 to5. Bysoines 7 tc 9. Sundays
12 to 2

eocee

CHIROPRACTOR :
DR. LEE E. KISER
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones '69 and 706 ,

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN =:
DENTIST

311, 812, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building

Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

? DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C. Phone 494

U
ryT Ira)

for members of the Davidson faculty to).

| spend their leisure moments.

UES ener This Hotel is Yours
to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS
no matter how large or how small, we

the rooms will be attractively furnished as a
reception room for alumni when they return
to the campus, with the rear room acting as
an office for the alumni secretary, Bre
Milton.

can serve you.

Halt! See! Hear!
Billy Rice would study art;
He would live free from strife,
And as the models did their part,
He'd live a model life.
—Parsimonious.

Senior—“Why did your English Prof send
you from the room?”

Junior—“T don't’know; f just-asked-him if

Regular board---reasonable---and the best
your money can buy.

Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Lady Godiva had bobbed hair.” |

