| THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

Doctor Harding Speaks Before
Southern Classical Conference

Dr. R. C. Harding, professor of Greek at | Beavers Elect Ten
Davidson, recently attended a meeting of the | From Fresh Class

Southern Section of the Classical Associa- |
tion of the Middle West and South, at Knox-
ville, Tenn. On last Monday night the members of the

Dr. Harding reports a very interesting and | Beaver Club, Sophomore honor organization,

full program. Especially striking was the| were elected by the Omicron Delta Kappa |

address delivered by Prof. Charles Knapp, of | Fraternity, for the coming year. The 10
Columbia University, on “Cicero and Lib-|members of the class of 29 chosen were:
eral Studies.” Professor Knapp is the editor | W. L. Dumas, J. R. Covington, W. P. Green,
of the Classical Weekly and one of the fore-| J. B. Moriarty, N. Myers, C. R. Lake, R. C.
most scholars of the country. |Grady, R. R. Kane, W. K. Pritchett, and

The Association is headed by Dr. Hubert |W. M. Regen.

McNeill Poteat, of Wake Forest College. |

The Beaver Club was organized last fall

The Southern Section is making plans to| by the Omicron Delta Kappa Society. Among
form a separate association as it is too far,| its main purposes is to entertain the various
when combined with the middle west, for the organizations from other institutions, such
members to travel. |as the football, baseball, debating, or basket-

A paper on “The Importance of Syntax”) ball teams. It also plans to make visiting

was read before the Association by Dr. | high school teams, often spend-some time on

\Harding. Many other interesting papers|the hiil, feel at home, and to promote, in!

were read by the leading Greek and Latin! general, a spirit of hospitality on the David-
scholars of the South. | son campus.

Dr. Harding is one of the leading Greek} Spoken of the club's friendliness and hospi-

scholars of the country, having spent last | tality during the last year, in the most laud-
able terms.

summer in Greece and Asia Minor studying |
Grecian customs and language. During the | The club’s membership is composed of 10
past winter he has been writing a weekly | Sophomores. In the spring the club nomi-
syndicated article for the Charlotte Observer | nates a list of rising Sopfis and from this
dealing with his travels in Greece. lnumber, with few exceptions, the Omicron
Dr. Harding has an enviable record as a| Delta Kappa Fraternity clects 10 Gig for
Greek professor at Davidson, having served |the coming year. No Freshman is eligible
here continuously for more than 35 years. who is on the squad of more than one major
sport, since he would be handicapped in aid-

| ing the entertainment of, visitors and for cer-

Various visiting teams have)

| tendance.

DAVIDSON DEFEATED

(Continued from page 1)

After the debate the guests were en-
tertained at a banquet by the Forensic

Council at the Y. M.C. A, The two teams |

had a very enjoyable feast.

This same question will be debated by
a Davidson team composed of Harlee
Branch and Don Wharton, with Sewanee
on April goth. ;

TEN MEN GET BIDS

(Continued from page 1)

the club will not be very much larger
than formerly.

The new members will be initiated some.

time during next week. They will be re-
quired to wear newspaper caps and pull
some “shine” in addition to the regular
initiation.

|tain other reasons. Bogh honor and respon-
| sibility rest upon tose’ elected.

| The present members of the Beaver Club
| are: C. G. Davidson, C. R. Rowe, W. L.
| Lingle, L. McLain, R. A. Miller, Val Guth-
| ery, R. A. Carr, J. S. Foster, and H. R.
|. Arbuckle,

| The freshmen track artists had an
easy day Saturday in running away with
Catawba College 88 to 20. The Salisbury
boys are experiencing their first year as
a track team, but in spite of this showed

that with training a goodly number of
| stars could be developed.

of the contest. Next year’s Soph presi-
dent flashed real class in winning the
220, 440 and broad jump and placing
second to Flynn in the century. Fiynn
came in first in the 120 yard low hurdles
and second in the broad jump and 440.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
MAY FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR AND SENIOR
THURS.| A. M._|No Classes No Classes Economics 1, 2
20 PM. |RO.T.C1 |RO.T.C.2 |R.0.T.C 3,4
FRI. | A.M. |German 1 German 2 Greek 3, 5, 6
21 Greek 1 Greek 2 German 3, 4
P. M. ae as Physics 1 Physics2,3,4 ©
Public Speaking
SAT. | A. M. Polit. Sc. 1, Accounting
22 P.M. |English1 | English 2 English 3, 4, 5, 6
TUES.| A. M. |Spanish1 ‘| Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6
ee ars “P. M._ | Phys. and Hyg. Psychology 1, 2, 3, 4
“WED. | A. M. — ameaae Economics 3
~ 26 +| P.M. |Bible 1 Bible 2 Applied Math 1, 2
Astronomy, Geology
THURS.| A. M. | French 1 French 2 French 3, Philosophy 1, 2
ay P.M. | Latin 1 Latin 2 Law; Education 2 _ ay
_____| A. M. | Biology 1 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4
PRI. P. M. History 1 History 2, 3, 4, 5
eee A. M. | Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6
SAT. Pp. MM. Math. 1 Math. 2 Math. 3, 4; Education 1
29 ‘ Polit. Sc. 2;
Christian Evidences ;
Church History

NONE TOO SMALL

We Want Your Account

R. A. DUNN, President
C, W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N.C.

Capital, Surplus, Ete., @ver $1,200,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE
Regardless of Its Size

» STEWART Cashier and Trust Office’
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

LW.
J. B.
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Flynn and Kell were high point men.

—

Literary Societies

Metrophilian

At a recent meeting of the Metrophilian
Literary Society elections of officers for
the coming year were held. These men will
be installed at the next regular meeting of
the society and will continue to serve in these
various capacities until another election late
in the fall of the next year.

W. T. Covington was elected president of
the society for the coming year, after several
ballots had been run off. Other men nomi-
nated for this position were Wharton, Sims,
and Stewart. Camper O'Neal was elected
for the position of vice-president in the race
against Henry Powell. For secretary, Myers,
Gilmour, Smith and Grady were nominated.
The final ballot was run over between Gil-
mour and Smith, Gilmour being elected.
Henry Powell was chosen treasurer in the
election, being run a close race by Bradford.
Don Stewart was chosen for first critic and
Boyce Martin for second critic, and after
this, Sam Smith and Nelson were elected!
first and second supervisors, respectively.

After the elections and general business ,
was finished a feed was given for all the
members of the society. This being the an-

‘nual spring feed of the society, a number of

members were present.

Eumanean

Due to the picture which was shown at the!
gym last Thursday night, the umanean |
Literary Society suffered a great drop in at- |
The meeting was called to order !
by the president, and, after the reading of |
the Scripture, the house was led in prayer
by R. A. Miller. In the absence of the sec-
retary, R. A. Miller was appointed to fill the
vacancy. The roll was called and the min-

| utes were read. Since none of the members |
| who were to take part on the debate were |
'present, that part of the program was omit- |
ted. E. H. Smith gave a declamation, and}, i
A. C. Kelly read a short story. The crtic, Upsilon, national
C. F. Smith, gave a very favorable report and will take the place of the present
on these men, and recommended both of them, name, The Davidson College Magazine,

for credits. Si ya si ; a ;
credits Since there Wet) Who business to | About twenty--five names were submitted
come, the meeting was adjourned,

AUSTIN ANNOUNCES

(Continued from page 1)
honorary fraternity,

_with The Chameleon, The Valkyrie, and
, ; The Hermes being the favorites. In the
Philanthropic ‘final vote, the name of The Chameleon
The regular meeting of the Philanthropic | was chosen.
| Literary Society was held last Thursday! The Sigma Upsilon fraternity is in
evening. The query for debate was, “Resolv-| charge of the publication of the final is+
,ed, That a labor party, representing all the | sue of the magazine this year. There is
laboring classes and their supporters, should 114 designated staff for this last issue, but
be organized in the United States.” W. J. | the work will be divided among the mem-
Fitts‘and C. H. Dubose upheld the affirma-| ers of this fraternity Quite a number
jtive and H. Worzel and Fred Phillips the) of changes have hacniinadeatdithermag=
|negative. After a heated discussion on both| azine will be of marked literary value.

sides a vote of the house was taken which
resulted in favor of the negative.

After a short business session the society
adjourned. s

The Davidson Music Club will present a
cantata, “The Golden Valley,” on Tuesday
evening, May 4th, at 8 o'clock, at the High
School, auditorium, All music lovers are cor-

dially invited,

The publication will be about 40 or 48
pages this The department of
“Cap and Bells” has been discontinued
and humorous and satirical essays and
stories will be substituted.

issue.

All the material has been collected and
is now in the hands of the printers. It
will probably appear some time about
the first of May or at least by the first
week of May.

of not carrying it.

INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price

McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)

| Independence Trust Co.

| Insurance Department. Charlotte N.C.

Camels contain the very choicest
world. Camels are blended by

blenders. Nothing is too good for Camels. In the making
of this one brand we concentrate ti

of

No other cigarette made is like Camels.

skill of the largest organization
world.
the overwhelming choice of

91926

Wren silvery

moonlight falls on town and
freld—and the long, joyous

tour home is ready to begin

—have a Camel! i

WHEN moonlight washes
woodland and hills with
platinum light. And the
tour home is ready to
begin—have a Camel!

For Camel makes
every smooth tour
smoother, adds of its
own contentment to
every delightful journey.
Camels never tire your
taste or leave a cigaretty
after-taste. Pay what
you will, you'll never get
choicer tobaccos than
those in Camels. ne,

So this night as the
forest-topped hills race
by. in moonlit proces-
sional. As the magic
road curves through the
colonnades of birches—
have then the finest made,
regardless of price.

Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you

tobaccos grown in all the

the world’s most ex r do not yet know Camel

quality, is that you try

them. We invite you to

compare Camels with

any cigarette made at
any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company

tobacco knowledge and -
tobacco experts in the
They are
experienced smokers.

