6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

DAVIDSON PROFESSOR GIVES
TALK AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Prof. Archie Currie addressed the students
at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sun-
day evening on the subject of “Indifference
to Duty.” He took as his text a part of
Ezekiel 8:16: “And behold, at the door of
the temple of the Lord between the porch
and the altar, were about five and twenty
men, with their backs toward the temple of
the Lord, and their faces toward the east;
and they were worshipping the sun in the
east.”

“These men,” said Professor Currie, “rep-
resent an attitude of mind. They were evi-
dently leaders of the people who had doubt-
less grown tired of the abstract forms of
worship, and, becoming indifferent to their
duty and responsibility as leaders, had turn-
ed to idolatry.”

By illustrations Professor Currie
showed that this same attitude of indifference
is prevalent in America today.

two

First he re-
ferred to the report of a crime investigation
undertaken by the University of Chicago in
that “crime capital of the world.” The re-
port showed that there are 1,331 different
criminal gangs in the city. They have divided
Chicago into geographical areas, each gang
working in its own territory, their object in
doing this being to study crime: the best
ways of carrying it out and of covering it up.
The report offered two explanations of this
situation, First, that the gangs are permit-
ted to exist by politicians who need. their
support; and second, that the blame really
rests on the good citizens of Chicago, the
leaders of the people in Chicago because of
their indifference to their civic responsibility
and civic duty, who, by refusing to vote and
to serve as jurors, are standing with their
backs toward the temple of duty.

The second illustration used was a speech
delivered by Attorney General Sargent before
the U. S. Bar Association some weeks ago.
By a very logical process of reasoning Car-
gent proved that the blame for violation of
the prohibition laws rests upon certain lead-
ers of the people more than upon. the com-
mon bootlegger. In this case also it is the
leaders of the peoplé who “have turned their
backs upon the temple of duty and are wor-
shipping the sun in’the east.”

Then bringing the question nearer home,
Professor Currie showed that the violation
of game laws, traffic laws, speed laws, etc.,
are adding to the crime wave just as well as

There is such a thing as car-

rying this warm weather stuff

too far, but you'd hardly
make a mistake with one of
these spring weight flannels.
We might add that they’re
good for right now, mid-sum-
mer and next fall---and mighty

good to look at either time.

Another thing in your favor,
many of them have two pairs
of trousers. And still another

thing, they’re not expensive.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Literary Societies

International Relations
Club Initiates Four Men

Austin, Bordeaux, Dillard and
Howard Are Initiated

The annual initiation of the International
Relations Club was held Friday night in the
Honorary Fraternity Hall. A very elaborate
initiation ceremony was held, after which a
bountiful feed sandwiches, punch,
cream and cake was enjoyed by the members.

The four men initiated were H. M. Austin
and W. H. Boordeaux, of the Junior Class,
and A. T. Dillard and D, H. Howard, of the
Sophomore class. These men have all taken
an active part in campus activities. Austin
is editor of the Magazine and a member of
the Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon,
and Omega Phi Alpha Honorary Fraterni-
ties, and also an honor roll man. Bordeaux
is also an honor roll man and a member of
the Pandeinie Literary Society. Dillard is a
member of the Dramatic Club, the Glee Club,
and is a debater. Howard, during his two
years at Davidson, has been the outstanding
student of his class, making the honor roll
He is a member of the Glee
Club and the Pyramid Club.

The International Relations Club has just
compteted one of the most successful years
in its history and these men are to be con-
gratulated upon their membership in it.

of ice

both years.

Phi Beta Kappa is
Placed at School
in South Carolina

On Thursday, April 8, the South Carolina
Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was in-
stalled at the University of South Carolina.
Dr. T. W. Lingle and Prof. W. W. Wood
were the official representatives of the Da-
vidson chapter. They were accompanied un-
officially by Harry Shaw, the Senior
Dr. Lingle and) Professor Woods
were also chosen to represent Davidson at a
meeting of all the chapters between Maryland
and Florida, which will be held soon to con-
sider which colleges will be next in order
for chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. No more
charters will be granted until the Triennial
meeting to be held-in 1928, but the colleges
which will he given charters then will be de-
termined at this next meeting. Professor
Wood was appointed to serve as secretary at
the meeting of the chapters of the South
Atlantic States.

Several former Davidson men were taken
in at the meeting recently held at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. Among them
were: J. M. McFadden, J. P. Caldwell, and
Dr. W. B. Burney. Mr. McFadden gradu-
ated here in 1922. He is coaching at:South
Carolina now and graduates there in law this
year. Mr. Caldwell, who was at Davidson
from ‘21 to '23, is a senior in the Department
of Civil Engineering at the University of
South Carolina this year. Dr. Burney, Da-
vidson, 1875, is now head of the Department
of Chemistry at South Carolina.

of

class.

Because of the close relations existing be-
tween Davidson and the University of South
Carolina, the local chapter of Phi Beta Kap-
pa has been very anxious and has worked
very hard toward getting the South Carolina
Alpha chapter established. Most of the
leading colleges of the country now have
chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. The local
chapter has been established only a few years,
but in these few years it has added the names
of many good men to thexroll of the fra-
ternity. ; :

New York University is sponsoring an
“Around the World College” as a.part of its
regular course.

Certain species of bamboo grow more than

three feet in 24 hours.

the violation of laws of a more serious
nature.

“It is not a question of whether or not the
law is a good one,” he said. “The point is
that so long as it is on the statute books it
should not be violated. Will you, as college
men, the future leaders of the people, stand
with your backs to the temple of duty? If
so our land will continue to be filled with
violence and the end no man can see. Unless
men become more attentive to their religious,
social and civic duties, then this precarious
civilization in which we live is doomed to
destruction.” ;

W: H. Branch, Jr., was in charge of the

meeting and introduced the speaker.

Metrophilian Society

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian
Literary Society was held last Thursday
night in Phi Hall. A very good attendance
and a heated debate made this one of the
biggest meetings of the year.

The subject “Resolved,
That Russia should be recognized by the
United States Government.” W. T..Coving-
ton and P, Thrower upheld the affirmative,
while J. M. Andrew and M. C. O'Neal plead-
ed the negative. At the conclusion of the
debate, the judges unanimously rendered the
decision in favor of the negative.
this, Dewitt Helm gave an
oration on a biblical poem.

The latter part of the program was taken
up in the discussion of business and in the
election of the marshals for commencement.
Roland Sims and W. T. Covington were
chosen on the final ballot to represent the

for debate was,

Following

society.
Dan Currie, as critic, discussed the pro-
gram, after which the society was adjourned.

Eumenean Society.

At the Eumenean Society Thursday night,
the query for debate was, “Resolved, That
the United States should recognize the Soviet
government of Russia.” The affirmative was
upheld by R. Lake and J. Willard, and the
negative by FL Smith and T. Peer. The
decision of the judges was in favor of the
affirmative but the house gave the decision
to the negative. <R. EF. Kell gave a short
discussion of Current Events.

Following the program the clection of
officers was held with the following men
President, W. A. Christian;
A. Miller; secretary, R.
Lake; treasurer, R. O. Flinn; critic, T. G.
McCutchen.

being elected :,
vice-president, R.

Pandeinic Society
The Pandeinic Literary Society held its
usual weekly meeting IwSt Thursday night in
Eu hall. ae
The devotional exe

Deck.

ses were led by L. L.
The query for debate was, “Resolved,
That Russia should be recognized by the
United States government.” W. EE. and T.
KE. Hill, defending the negative, received the
The affirmative was
Deck and S. W.

decision of the judges.
ably defended by L. 1.
Moore.

R. H. Mellwaine delivered an oration on
“Personality,” and C. R. MeCarty gave a
review of Current Events.

After a short business session the society
| adjourned.

Philanthropic Society

The regular meeting of the Phi Society |
was held last Thursday night. The debate
for the evening was, “Resolved, that compul-
sory church attendance should be continued
at Davidson College, with N. A. Brown and
B. F. Brown upholding the affirmative, and
C. N. Mauzy and 1. Wadsworth the negative. |

Some very good arguments were advanced |
by each side, but a vote of the house gave the
decision to the negative.

|

New Courses to be =
Offered in 1926-27

Although the new catalogues have not left |
|the press, the following courses have been |
}announced by the registrar, Mr. Hengeveld. |
| Two new courses in Bible will be offered.
| Bible 4 will deal with church history and
government, and Bible 5 with the Ethical

Teaching in the New Testament. |

The new courses offered in Biology, which |
| will be called Biology 4, 5, and 6, will be|
{courses in Botany, Genetics and Histology. |
The only new course in Political Science will |
be Political Science 3, dealing with gov-
ernment. ‘ .

An entirely new course will be established |
next semester and will .be taught by Mr. |
| Williams, who was secretary of the “Y" last
year. This course will be a course in Busi- |
ness Management.

English Prose’ for, the 18th century will be
known as English 7. Scientific German will
|take the place of German 3. The courses of
Geology 1, 2, and 3, will be general, physical
and commercial.

The Physic courses offered will be: A,
‘Elementary Physics: 1, General Physics; 2,
Electricity! 3, Alternating Current; 4, Light
and Magnetism ; and 5, Heat and Sound.

In th Psychology department, which will
be under Dr. Hood, who will return from
Europe this summer, will be: 1, Elementary
Psychology; 2, Social Psychology; 3, Gene-
tic and Abnormal Psychology; 4, Logic; 5,
Business and Experimental Psychology.

|

A negro woman recently committed sucide
in Birmingham. It was the first case of such
a suicide in 19 years.

New Cabinet Announced

dress telling of the work that the “Y” has

and Officers Installed
During Vesper Services

Dr. Arbuckle, Hollingsworth and
Christian Deliver Charges to
New Officials

At the meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on April
11, the new cabinet was announced and the
officers installed. The old cabinet was called
to the front and commended for: its work.
Speeches were given by A. H. Hollingsworth,
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and W. A. Christian.

After the two cabinets had been called to
the front, a talk was made by the retiring
president, A. H. Hollingsworth, concerning
the work that the Y. M. C. A. does, and its
high object. Dr. Arbuckle, chairman of the
Board of Control, followed this with an ad-

done in the past. He pointed out that it is
the great upholder of the spiritual life of the
campus and the members of the cabinet, as
the leaders, were responsible for this spiritual
life. Dr. Arbuckle thus gave the charge to
the new cabinet.

W. A. Christian, the newly elected presi-
dent, concluded the program with an address
in which he commended the achievements of
the old cabinet as the best that he had heard
of an the campus, calling to mind that they
had been most active in all phases of the “Y”
work, Having discussed the work and the
responsibility it would require to uphold this
record, he then charged the new cabinet to
equal this work and, if possible, to surpass it.
In conclusion, the president called upon each
individual member of the student body to
support the work, for, otherwise, any efforts
of the cabinet would be fruitless.

The arrangements to
camp out during one of the first week-ends in
May and will discuss plans for the coming
A. M. Hillhouse will not be back next
year and a secretary is being sought. The
plans for next year will also bring the “Y”
hall into more service as a social center,

cabinet has made

year,

The newly installed cabinet was appointed
by the president a few days ago and is chosen
from the leaders of the religious life of the
campus. The officers for 1926-27 are
follows :

W. A. Christian, president; J. S. Foster,
vice-president; Boyce Martin, secretary.

The members of the cabinet are: V. S.
Broyles,. entertainment; W. T. Covington,

as

Charlotte
Transfer Company

.

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

CHAMPION

Electric Shoe Fixery

YOUR SHOES FIXED
BETTER
Between White Drug Company
and postoffice
DAVIDSON, N. C.

personal work; C. G. Davis, Sunday Schools ;
J. S. Foster, music; H. G. Goodykoontz, |
boys’ work; J. W. Keerans, self help; Boyce |
Martin, attendance; J. A. McAlpine, mission |
study_. L. M. McCutcheon, Bible study; R. |
1. McIlwaine, mission fund; G. R. Sims, |
community work; D. H. Stewart, weekly !
mectings; L. D. Wharton, handbook.

The flag of Denmark is the oldest unaltered |
flag in existence, dating back to 1219. |

Pressing Business!

Yes, that’s us, but we have plent
time to do yours and we clean an
press ‘em right.

Buy a ticket an_ save the differ.

Proprietors
Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox

Representatives

Bohannon---Leggett---Woodham

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Dorr rrr rr rrr)

Phone 3486

221 West Trade Street

THE PRINCESS CAFE

FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN

The Up-to-date and Sanitary Place to Eat

Open Day and Night

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte

Tryon Drug Co.

Bs eC ING) ae ee
Hollingsworth Nunnally

Whitman Candies

of not carrying it.

Insurance Department.

INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price

McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.

Charlotte N.C.

