8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

STUDENTS INSURE LIVES

Students of Fisk University, Nashville,

Tenn., set a precedent in college loyalty |
the classes. of |

when the members of
1925 and 1926 took out endowment in-
surance policies on their lives, making
Fisk the irrevocable beneficiary. Lack-
ing the means to give largely to the in-
stitution, each took this method creating
a substantial estate which will accrue to
the University at the end of the endow-
ment period, or at the death of the in-
sured. This step was taken in connec-
tion with an endowment campaign now
under way and was initiated by one of
the alumni of the institution.

Monkey Business

First Sister—“I simply refuse to go
riding with Jack again. The sissy thing’s
afraid to drive with one hand. Why, I’d
as soon go out with a monkey.”

Second Sjster—“That’s right, a monkey
could drive with his feet.”

Twenty million tons of iron go to ruin
annually because of rust, it is estimated.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS
AGO

The Davidson Wildcats ended a most
successful football season defeating the
Clemson Tigers in the last game of.the
year. Davidson more than made up for
the tie scores of the two previous years
with Clemson by handing the Tigers an
overwhelming defeat in the Tianksyiv-
ing game staged at Charlotte. From. the
time that “Steve” Walker received the
opening kickoff and ran 55 yards through

the whole Clemson team, ‘until the last
whistle blew, it was clearly Davidson's
game. Five touchdowns and three goals

were the total score and this was prob-
ably lessoned by the frequent and heavy
penalties of the Wildcats. The game was
a fitting climax to the wonderful record

made this season, and ended the most
successful y@éar Davidson has had in a
long time.

The selection for the All-State team,

as picked by Carey Dowd, sporting edi-
tor of the Charlotte News, has five Da-
vidson men. These are: Sayad, at tackle;
White, center; R. Walker, guard; Black,
quarterback ; halfback. It

and Burns,

hes
Ty

pe of Entertainment

Faculty Assists in Reception for

Freshmen
Last Friday afternoon the “Y” in-
augurated a new custom at Davidson

College in the form of a reception for
the Fresh class.

The Freshmen were divided into four
groups, each group being entertained at
the Y Hall one afternon

.C.A.Inaugurates New

| playgrounds, swimming pools, commun-
ity centers, mtinicipal golf coures, com-
munity dramatics, music and numerous
other activities. The supply of trained
leaders to direct these leisure time pro-
gramsyis inadequate. Outstanding men
of character, resourcefulness, leadership
and training are needed. The opening
class will be limited to fifty persons.

Town News

The following young people of the
town of Davidson are expected home this
week-end to the holidays with
relatives:

spend

Misses Sarah Hamilton and Jane Rich-
ards, of Converse.
Charlotte Hunter
Martin, of Agnes Scott.

Misses and Kitty

Professional Notices

Miss Letitia Curry, of Salem.

Misses Sarah Barnette and Ruth John-

The first group : ) eocccece e eee

consisted of those from A through G;the ston, of North Carolina College for Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65.J °

second from G to M; the third from M ‘to> Women. DR. VANCE HASTY H

R; and the last comprising the remaind- — Miss Elizabeth Frye, of Asheville Nor- DeNTIST $

- Anderson Building, Court Street EntranceCom §

er of the class and those who were un- mal College. me cial National Bank Building s

able to attend the reception held for their Miss Helen Proctef, of Eastern Caro-| ‘ . Ba ta a es H

: ai eo es 8: i o 5. . Sundays
group. lina Training School at Greenville, N. C. nahalapeer ely 8: FR bate = awd °
The first reception was held last Fri- Miss Mildred Mooney,of Mitchell Col-] gs, ee PTTYT Tt t es
day, the second on Monday, the third lege, Statesville.

Wednesday and the last will be held Fri- Miss Evelyn Potts, of Washington, geet eo eoccce Sb

day. Ib) e ; DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN 3;
Ty ce . . e

rhe purpose of these receptions is to William White, of the U. S. Naval|$ 5 DENTIST H

give the Freshmen social contact with Academy 4 811, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building °
Aci y. s

the leaders of the campus and the faculty, nin Pe yet : ° Charlotte, N. C. +

; athe Eustis E. Lingle, of Princeton, accom-|e ache i ®

to make them feel that Davidson is a ‘ ; 8 a ‘ 13 Phones: Office 5050.” Residence, 1937.J 4

; . « panied by his roommate, Norman New-|¢ e

second home and eradicate that homesick i CO ccesoccnccccccecccccccccccecoccseonecess

feeling that comes to so many students.

mark, of Los Angeles, Cal.

is a\fitting recognition of a successgul The faculty advisers of each group, to- jebcuahaad US Sak Dee pes ae
, , season that the Wildats have five men on gether with their wives, have been pres- ological Seminary.
the mythical All-State eleven. ent with those particular men. The wives The following young ladies of Davidson
Vi C ae O R y ‘The Senior Oratoricals of the class|Of the members served tea and cakes to now teaching elsewhere will also be home | M P E R | A L
of 1017 are now inscribed on the pages @ll the Freshmen who attended. Mrs, for the holidays : .
lof history, with only a memory of Martin had charge of the arrangements Miss Sarah Lingle, from Converse.
lupeeohas, concerts, receptions and girls. and helped very much by her kind as- Misses Sophie Richards and Nina Holt NOW SHOWING
TH EATRE Many of the speeches, dealing with five sistance. con a... White, from Mocksville, N. C. John Gilbert
| questions of the day, accorded high ait USEC oh ka Sorat Miss Winifred Potts, from Albemarle. 0 n I er
| praise to Woodrow Wilson, showing the rotated in being present at these recep- Miss Margaret Adams. from Rocking- IN
MOORESVILLE - . . N.C.) political affiliation of the majority of tions, I ana ih laa mat ceuaattLe ° el
‘the speakers. The European War and The receptions were held at the Mave ae fai lie GRRE RC nie GUTTA “BARDELYS THE
Tues., Dec, 21-:*Love’s Blind- i ae ae ay olla ue a st were SF ULUINEL ERTS GAINERS ERE iE Miss Lilan sample, amston, MAGNIFICENT”
y 5 | discussed from various viewpoints. There aaeetan : ' EATION SCHOOL Di BLUES ABEL ORO toade
ness, a Metro-Goldwyn picture. | was a large number of visitors on the tables in the room hold cakes and cindy RECR Bear ee de," with
| Hill for the occasion, including alumni, and provided a place for the Freshmen to yee he tik an 1 will : PUL Cla Ly Bott
Wed., Dec. 22.---‘The Great | friends and relatives of the students, The Buoy together with the members of the : A national recreation sc ee Nad. ; oe ELEANOR BOARDMAN
Gatsby,” a Paramount picture. [Senior CURT SACI ON Tt Vel sees Hae en SINE Bee ae A Big Metro-Goldwin-Mayer
}occasion, and will long be remembered ate Special Production H
Thurs., Dec. 93---“Twinkle| Py al! who had the pleasure to attend. PHI SOCIETY This tHAlAinecoanter: UHH TRE Piky |
Toes,” with Colleen Moore. ; }ground and Recreation Association of | COMING MONDAY
: : In one of the most interesting and de-|America will conduct, has come into be-| fe '
Sat., Dec. 25 --- “Stepping ages Bea Ne ce cagteann lightful sessions of its long ad seitiiane (ine because of a demand for professional | BEBE: DANIELS in H
Mp ; S BeCy SIAN C Che Tig €\ history, the Philanthropic Miterary Soci-|training in .tecreation leadership from | 66 . is””
Along, with Johnny Hineg. murder, they were about the only, people | ety met last Thursday ee 7 330 o’ctock and | dycete HG the United States. Maus than Stranded in Paris
alt in town missing.—The Portland Evening | proceeded, with many high flights of | 700 cities have organized community rec- A Comedy Riot
Express. |oratory on the part of its talented mem-|reation programs involving athletics, | soo!

bers, to indict, try, and condemn Bill |
| Covington on the following grave and |
| serious charge: “Resolved that the de-|
| fendant is guilty in whole and entirety |

ANCL RA

DAVIDSON THEATRE

|of conductig himself, behaving in such a| es
DAVIDSON, N. & | manner, and wearing his hair in such a] es
|mode, that, as a direct consequence, and | es
due to deliberate sand premeditated de- &

| sign, he has in a manner worthy of all!

condemnation, by various late dates and a
Mon. and Tues., Dec. 20, 21 other devices invented by himself, | *
Gorinne Griffith i “Syncopating Gia? ao alae ane in nee cases in se ;
| part the hearts of various fair visitors! es
who were deceived by his cantimonious ee The Student Store
Wed. and Thurs Dec 22 23 jand saintly airs and by other wiles pro- X
Ze) 2 5 ceeding from his hypocrisy and nympho- As A
“Everybody’s Acting” mania. To wit, he is accused of telling, Re takes this opportunity to
on his bended knee,. with various and) %y

sundry assurances of eternal faith and
allegiance, to ten girls in immediate suc- |
cession, that

Friday, Dec. 24

i)

thank the Student Body for

; i ; to them belonged his en- <
Johnny Hines in “Stepping Along” ltire faith, love, fortune, and heart.” & ) wt
In spite of the moving indictment by Ai the past year S patronage BY

the famous misogynist, Morris Gilmour, ee

Saturday, Dec. 25

| the defendant was acquitted on his plea
ithat he was out of his ordinary self due

EY

Fred Thompson in “The Tough Guy” to something that he had eaten, or may- & and to wish yeu the wk
be, drunk. ee

WA

i

Merriest Christmas

JUNIOR WEEK DATES

aN

possible

Warner’s

Broadway Theatre

WHERE QUALITY MEETS
_ CHARLOTTE’S LEADING THEATRE

The dates for Junior Week have
been changed after a successful peti-»
tion to the executive committee. The
time set was from March 30th hrough
April 5th, but has been changed to
| April 14th through 20th. Since Easter
| comes at this time more girls will be
here, and this moving of dates should
| add much to the success of Junior
| Week.
| The Juniors have been getting things
| in shape and making plans, and will
| soon have things well under way.

iA

ae

y

Ng

) STUDENTS
..- Lhe Home of KEITH Vaudeville... |

EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY

The petition was successful also in Se) 4
that the holidays were changed so that ry 6
they will begin on Thursday at 1:30, / al

to Wednesday at 8:30. The previous
dates were from Wednesday at 1:30 to
Tuesday at 8:30.

The same general arrangement of
the program for the entire week that
has been followed or tfhe last few
years has been- planned for the Junior

Week of 1927.

...Lhe Shrine of the Photoplay...

EVERY THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY

THE BEST IN PICTURES
GET THE BROADWAY HABIT

d}
e
eo

Wie aN ANC

