THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18,

1926

PLAYING THE GAME
By Aubrey Brown

‘More Dope Upset
Monk and Tex—Miracle Men
Charlie’s Rabbit Feet

Florida ’Gaitors Scheduled
Prospects Good for Cagemen

|
|

Davidson again threw a wrench in the
state championship mechanism and sur-
prised many. But those who know Monk
Younger and Tex Tilson and their fight-
ing Wildcats were not surprised. When

that plucky team got the jump on Caro-|
lina and put over a touchdown in the |

first nine minutes of the game, Wildcat
stock soared to the skies. «Those odds
that” were so promiscuous before were
noticeable by their absence.

We

“Tex”

may fittingly call “Monk” and
“Miracle men.” During their four
years here they have gradually developed
a team that is no mean organization. Too
much praise cannot be extended them
for their work and now every member
of the student body, every alumnus, ev-
ery member of the faculty, and admirers
of Davidson everywhere, are greater
worshippers of Coaches Younger -and
Tilson than ever.

The defeat of Carollna Saturday on
Richardson Field was a reminder of last
year’s game although’ the victors and
vanquished were reversed. Davidson's
hundred yards more came last year,
when the Wildcats pushed over more
first downs than the Tar Heels but failed
to score, Carolina did the same thing
this year.

All due honor should be given Caro-

lina, for, even though they. did not win, |

they battled to the last. McPherson, who
had played only ten minutes prior to the
game Saturday and scored three touch-
downs failed to get his start. Schwartz
was easily the star for Carolina, The
coaches sent in three backfields but none
could cross the Wildcat goal line.

The Davidson’ Wildcats seem to have
been extremely lucky (?) in up-setting
dope forecast on their games this season.
No doubt those people who saw the ’Cats
“lick Carolina out of its boots” Saturday,
thought of that. May we say lucky or
not? Twice we have been doped to win
and have lost both games. Twice again
they have doped us to lose but strange’ to
say the prophecies did not come true.
Let’s hope that “those that be” will give
the Blue Devils the edge in the fracas
Thanksgiving.

Charlie’s rabbit feet, planted under
cach goal post seemed to have the de-
sired effect. A touchdown was made:
across the north goal-line and then Dick
Grey booted that beautiful drop-kick
through the other goal-posts. Charlie
and his rabbit feet are all right.

The University was well represented
at the: game, having sent a snappy band
and a host of rooters. For their num-
ber their yells were fine and the band
deserves special mention. Dressed: in
dark coats and white trousers, and led
by a wide-awake director, their appear-
ance on the field between halves was im-
pressive.

Fine spirit prevailed all during the con |

test. The Tar Heel band complimented
with “O Davidson,” and the R. O. T. C
band played the Carolina anthem in re-
turn. Such spirit as was manifdsted
should be encouraged.

The anouncement that Davidson. will
meet Florida in Gainesville, Fla., was
greeted with hurrahs by Davidsonians.
This is the first statement as to David-
son’s widening out into other football
circles and we are hoping that more will
be forthcoming. Florida went down be-
fore Alabama 48-0 Saturday but they will

be ready for a come-back next year.
Having made a change in coaches recent-
ly, their system. is, necessarily, not as

intact as possible. No doubt the ’Gaters

will be casting hungry glances in the!

direction of the Wildcats next fall.

The call for cagemen has sounded and|

‘Wofford Harriers Lose

| to Fast Davidson Team

| Penn Wins Match, Running Thrge

Miles in Eighteen Minutes—
Course Excellent

ne?

Bohannon Deadly in Art of Receiv-
ing Aerial Heaves

McPHERSON STOPPED

| The Davidson cross-country team com-
| pletely outclassed the Wofford Harriers

|at Spartanburg last Friday by a score of

| 38 to 17, The time for the slightly more| Pinkney and Boggs Intercept Passes
than three-mile course was 18 minutes. —Carolina Completes But One
| The course was almost ideal, having Out of Five

lan equal up and. down hill grade and Seer ao rS
| varied surface. At the start Wofford (Continued “from page 1)
took the lead and for the first half-mile] After the next kick-off, the Tar Heels
|held it but as the course began to take staged a strong come-back but could
lan up-hill grade Penn stepped out and gain little when in Davidson territory.
| Wofford men began to drop back. At the Coach Collins rushed in several new
end of the second mile the whole David- backfield men in a vain attempt to find a
son team was in the lead, but determined winning combination, but “Monk” Young-
not to be entirely outclassed, Moore, the cr, head Davidson mentor, countered by
‘Wofford captain, moved up three notches, putting some of his best defensive men
and took fourth place, which he held for in the game. For the remainder of the
the rest of the run. At the finish the half the ball see-sawed back and forth
| course straightened out and led into the near the middle of the field with Elli-
| athletic field to the finish line which was son and Grey engaging in a punting duel
in front of the Wofford grandstand. The with the honors-about even.
{men came in in the following order: During the rest period» a number of
| Penn, Treverton, Ely, Moore. Wofford, Carolina students and alumni took the
| Martin and Webb. The next four places field and gave a parade. The Tar
|being taken by Wofford men. The run Heel band played the Alma Mater’s of
| was staged between the halves of the both schools and then the newly formed
| Wofford-Erskine football game. "Crazy Cats” of Davidson took the cen-
| Minor letters are to be awarded this ter of attention. The R. O. T. C. band
|year. At the end of the season Coach struck up the songs of the rival institu-
| Tilson will recommend as many mem- tions and the “Cats” formed a “D” just
| bers of the team as he sees fit, however, before time for the renewal of hostili-
|a maximum has beén set at 5, and these ties.
[ne after the Athletic Council’has voted The first of the second half was much
on and passed will be awarded letters, like the first. two periods. Carolina held
| The team has two -more meets. The the edge in ground-gaining when in their
| next being with Duke at Durham Thanks- own territory and about the 4o-yard line
giving and the last one at Chapel Hill on of the Wildeats, but found the Davidson
December 6th, 4in which all of the teams. line impregnable when the Red and Black
in the state will participate. goal line was threatened. After the field
|oal, the Tar Heels tried several passes
; but succeeded in completitig only one of
the number. McPherson, star University

‘Five Varsity Men
° track man, got off some pre runs of
Out for Practice ten and Aare but Bee break

About twelve men reported for varsity eee for a,wild dash ero she goal as
basketball practice on Monday, 8th. Five °° had done ph times this, season.
letter men, Anderson, Boggs, Harrison, | In trying to pick the stars for the fray,
Simpson, and Wilson are back, and pros- “Y®" @ close observer of thelgatne Lies
pects for a good team are very bright. | °°? But certainly credit?and plenty of
Practices are being held every other day it, too, should go to Wilson, Davidson
for the present, but daily practices will Hue ters who completely outguessed the
be “started. on Monday, aand > Severs Carolina backs but instituting a passing
varsity men are out for football, and will ee te at the start. Wilson, not only di-
not be able to report for duty on the rected the team well, but also tackled
basketball squad until after Thanksgiv- nercer than SECE before. And to Nisbet
and Grey, Davidson’s point-makers many

|
|

|
|

ing.’ After this, however, strict practice hi id ; ‘
will be started, and the coaches expect! ner Soule Re weiter, «| Nisbet Rascals

edit to Olde madidnen, surest tackling backs in the state and he
A trip through South_Carolina has been displayed all his wares Saturday. Grey's

: : ways been one o 25 ivi |
to round into.shape a team, that will do W@¥S been one of the hardest driving and |

Nesbit and Grey Score Wildkittens Drop Game
Winning Points Making _ to State Freshmen, 13-0
Touchdown and Dropkick) y,tthews and Kugler Play Good |

| ward passes and end runs to a wonder-
| ful
| Wildkittens 13-0 in a hard-fought con-
itest at Raleigh Saturday.
, Techmen put over a touchdown in the
| second quarter, and another in the third.

arranged, It will last five days, and, on toe refused to be stopped and he added
this trip, Citadel will be played twice, another field goal to his already long
and also the College of Charleston, and ByEING: f i :

on the teturn trip, Wofford will be In the line, we find an even harder jab,
played, , but McConnell and Pinckney seemed to
}run wild when a Tar Heel was in their
| Five years ago this week the fighting "eighborhood. Ritchie and Boggs were
| Wildcats, runing true to form, upset the deadly and sure tacklers and thereby
sporting world. When the Davidson added their name to the hall of fame.

and the N, C. State teams entered the’ For the boys from Chapel
field at Charlotte, the State Wolfpack; Schwartz, at center, Warren, tackle and
was a heavy favorite. Most of the foot-| McPherson and Ferrell in the backfield
ball fans of North Carolina had picked.| were especially brilliant. But after nam-
State as the sure winner,

|

|

of the team, when interviewed a few/|tered the game, for each one of: them
hours before the game, frankly said that} Played excellent ball.
in his opinion, State would be the easy | The line-up and summary follow:

five lettermen answered the call. With) the game, was a perfect score. Another! Score by quarters:
Captain Anderson, Harrison, Simpson,| try, a few minutes later, fell short by a| Carolina ---.---------__. 0 0 0 Oo
Boggs, and Wilson back, prospects are| few inches. ‘ Davidson ~-..-..-..----- 7 0°3 O—I10

bright for a winning team this year, Part
of the schedule has been arranged with
a five-day trip through South Carolina
during which time Citadel, Wofford and

the College of Charleston will be met.

\

The whole student’ body, since the suc-
cess with State, planned to down Caro-
lina. This important game, one week
from the State game, was scheduled for
Winston-Salem.

Summary: Scoring touchdown, Nisbet
for Davidson; extra point, D. Grey from
dropkick ; field goal. D. Grey (Davidson).
Substitutions: Carolina, Furches for

(Continued on page 6)

|

Hill, |

A prominent! ing all these men, it would be unfair not
Davidson student and a loyal supporter | to add the names of every,man who en- |

|
|

|

victors, but he also said that the Wild-| Carolina Position Davidson
cats would not go down without a real) McMurray ______ 51 6} Dye Nata Bohannon
i fight. And they didn’t. In fact, the; Morehead ~_.---_ el oeeceee Lincoln
‘Cats never went down, The final score| Whisnant (C) --. LG ~_-_---__ Mitchell
was 3-3, but the game was in our favor,| Schwartz ~--__- Genter. - 22 McConnell |
That tie meant more than a mere tie, It} Shuler ---2--_____ RG ogges
showed the sporting world that the Wild-| Warren —---__-___ RY seseceeeh Ritchie
cat spirit was a real, living thing. ‘McDaniel -_-.--__ Rbesecesas Pinckney
| Captain La Far, at a guard position,| Hackney --__-_W- OBiees ae se Wilson
and Shephard, a worthy predecessor of| Ellison —-----_--- nO (ae aratees Wells (C)
‘our own Dick Grey, were the stars of} Ferrell ~--------- IOs Cee err re D. Grey |.
the day. Shephard’s field goal, late in| Jenkins ~-.___.-._ 1 OBS Sey set Nes pe Nisbet

.

Ball for Davidson at
Raleigh Saturday

The N. C. State Freshmen, using for-

advantage defeated the Davidson

The~ young

The state backfield worked smoothly
and were led in their rushes by captain
Warren, who registered the second
touchdown. Leeka, playing half back,
scored the first touchdown.

Kugler, playing quarterback, and
Matthews at half, led the Wildkittens
attack. Matthews broke through the
state line for several tengthy gains. Kug-
ler displayed the fact Saturday that he
means to be one of Coach “Monk’s” star
safety men. He showed great headwork
in receiving punts.

The weak point. of the Wildkittens
seemed to be their inability to break up
the State passes, many being completed
for substantial gains.

The Wildkittens threatened to score in
the second quarter, and were on, State’s
fifteen-yard line as the half ended.

Although the Wildkittens came out
with the small end of the score, they de-
serve praise for the splendid fight ex-
hibited.

The game was clean and hard-fought
throughout. Davidson was not penal-
ized during the entire game, and State
only three times.

‘The line-up follows:

Davidson Position State
Hampton --_----- Ve asecvcse Childress
Garson ec sole | beeper eee. Lepo
Hin tesecssel cc cce eG genes Mayfield
DeArmon -~----- Center s2ccecees Hardin
De Camp -~------- WAG) ceeds Jordan
McConnell ------ Rolie eetee ano Ricks
Peterson —~.------- RB ee ecee ss Lattimer
Matthews -------- ) Dlg ianaayarepareeemin Leeka
Christian ----_--- Re 2 see Warren
Kugler ccccc ooo2 QBrs222c. f-- Adams
Brohard —-------- WB eee, Jeffreys

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE
INJURED

(Continued from page 1)
from. His skull was fractured, and it is
not known just how he will come out.
Hamilton’s arm was run over, but he
was not seriously hurt. The other boys
who were thrown from the truck were
scratched up a good bit, but none of
them received any sefious injury.

|
'
i]
1

|

Golfers to Meet.
Statesville Team

Next Saturday, at one-third, the Da-

, vidson golf team will make its initial ap-

pearance with a match in Statesville. The
team is composed of men who were
picked by means of a tournament. These
men are: McGill, Wolfe, Love, Martin,
Wilson, and Mills. They will play in the
order named.

During the tournament which came to
a close recently, the two men going into
the finals, both broke the college record.
They came out on even terms each hav-
ing the same score on match play, while
in medal play McGill made a score of
68 to Wolfe’s 69. McGill is the manager
of the team and expects to have several
more matches in the near future. No
captain has been selected to date but one
will probably be chosen in the next few
weeks.

Statesville has been doing some good
work, so far this year, and promises to
give the local team a hard fight. A re-
turn match has been assured us, this
match to be played on the Davidson
course.

Three freshmen are members of the
team this year and have shown up ex-
ceptionally well. Love has been the most
consistent in his play so far.

The word “tight” has two meanings,
both of .which are suggested by the word
“Scotch.”

Bill Covington says that he gets mighty
homesick for his mother’s pies, but it’s
his father’s dough that keeps him away.”

WE RENT

Tuxedos, Full Dress
Any Costume

or Wig
SOUTHERN COSTUME SHOPPE

17 South Tryon Street

Oyer Brown’s Restaurant

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N. C.

ee,

Men

tinually increasing.
Fall lines for young
best we’ve ever had!

SHOES

“Since 1808 the Home of Good Shoes”

We Never Hear a Man Ask for “Just Anything”
in Footwear Nowadays

O, SIR!
phatic ideas of what they require of
tootwear now---and the number of

satisfied Gilmer-Moore customers are con-

Gilmer-Moore Company
| HOSIERY

have decidedly em-

Have you seen our
men?. They’re the

LUGGAGE

Union

of the New

Introducing to the readers of

Rev. Eugene C. Caldwell, D. D., LL. D., Pro-

fessor of Biblical Literature and the Interpretation

_UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Theological Seminary

RICHM )ND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

Testament in

