4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

The Davidsonian |

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR.---
VERNON S. BROYLES.------

secasece Editor-in-Chief
.---Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wi Gis DIN GGRiccicc se eogescccs cocaunestoces Managing Editor
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH. ant Managing
BOYCE MARTIN ~_-__.-- ant Managing

F.C. WITHERS. _._.._. Poeeescuese Athletic
tARNETT McMILLAN_-- .....Associate
KENNETH BELL--------- Bove ....-Associate E
BUFORD WEBB____..- eeieccdensdecess Aa sOclate
H. L. SHELBY. peeps mine eeryer rays s cree ANAL

s i .-Exchange Editor

M. .------Assistant Business Manager
Bel DOUGUASS 22 ea Assistant Business Manager
nae af Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPIN Manager

Subscription
Circulation Manager
Service Manager

ALRBRIGH

W. earns
R. S. ABERNETHY-..-.-.---

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. | W. S. GORDON
C. C, MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas JOHN GWIN
W. H. ALLISON I T. JONES ©

pea R. HW. MeILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN” J. POMcKNIGHT
C, L, BRAGAW A. M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON J. G. WHARTON
W. T. DAVIS B, WILSON

EDITORIAL

CARS vs. CONCENTRATION

_Dean Gauss, eminent official of Princeton
University, has started a new movement to
eliminate the automobile from college and
university life. As a result of his aggres-
sive Opposition to the presence of automo-
hbiles on the campus, Princeton has outlawed
the custom of allowing college students to
own and possess cars. This unusual prec-
edent has been followed by hundreds of oth-
er American colleges and universities, and
the movement started hy Dean Gauss has
gained such momentum that it has been
widely recognized and favored ‘throughout
the nation,

_Educators throughout the land have hur-
ried to the support of this new movement,
. and are variously branding the automohile
_as a “menace to student concentration,” “a
devastating agent in the new social up-
heaval,” and “an evil to be eradicated as~
quickly as possible.”

A few years ago American colleges were
free from the problems and evils that have
followed the introduction of the “horseless
carriage” on the campus. Educators and
college officials, as they rejoiced in the prog-
ress of the automobile industry, little real-
ized that with its spread there would come
an upheaval in social and college life. To-
day they face a new problem, the only solu-
tion to which seems embodied in the move-
ment sponsored by Dean Gauss and his fol-
lowers,

Davidson College, with its characteristic
conservatism, is enjoying a fortunate free-
dom from this menace. It has always been
true that Davidson College abandoned old
cutoms with hesitancy and looked askance
at new and unproved innovations. Perhaps
this is the underlying cause for Davidson’s
slow but consistent progress, perhaps this is
the real reason why Davidson has heen com-
paratively immune to many of the conta-
gious campus evils that have seemed prev-
alent throughout America during the past
decade,

For many years. the officials of Davidson
College have wisely forbidden’ the owner-
ship and possession of automobiles by the
students of the institution; This prohibi-
tion has seemed unjust and unwise in many
cases, but in the light of Dean Gauss’ in-
vestigation and attack, the wisdom of their
prohibition is unquestionable.

A word from Dean M. E. Sentelle throws
much light on the attitude that has been
taken by the Davidson faculty in regard to
the possession of cars by focal students.

“Davidson College;” recollects: Dean Sen-
telle, “has realized from the first that to per-
mit students to own and keep cars on the
campus would be detrimental to the very
purpose for which students enroll in the col-
lege. The automobile as a commercia! or
time-saving utility has proved beyond doubt
its value, but in the possession of a college
student it has been seen from the first that it
would prove a distraction and a form of
dissipation, It would enable students, who
should remain at study, to run here and
there at random, consequently leading them

i

to fail in their studies, or to miss mutch of
the real college life that exists on the Da-
vidson campus. Many of the healthy influ-
ences that are to be gained from campus as-
sociations would be lost, and the student, if
he was fortunate enough to remain in. col-
lege, would graduate without having en-
joyed any of finer lessons his college had to
offer.”

“This would seem reason enough to pro-
hibit the ownership of cars by our students,”
the Dean goes on to remark, “but there
still remain other considerations. With the
persistent lowering of prices in second-hand
automobile establishments, it is safe to pre-
dict that any of our students with twenty-
five dollars and a desire to do so could pur-
chase for themselves cars, whose usefulness
is greatly overshadowed by their unsightli-
ness. To permit our students to keep these
unsightly contrivances on the campus would
destroy the beauty of the college lawn and
convert it into a potential junk-heap. It
is not infrequent, especially after holidays,
for me to have to call students before me
and insist that they remove from the campus
and refrain from using objects which they
insist on calling “automobiles,” put which
more mature minds would quickly term as
“the remains of worn-out mechanical con-
trivances.” The distraction caused by cars
and the unsightly appearance of the auto-
mobiles .generally owned by students have
been the two leading factors in our decision
to prohibit their possession.”

-arents, educators, and other persons in-
terested in the welfare of American college
students are staunchly supporting the move-
ment launched by the Princeton Dean, and
given publicity by such leading periodicals
as the Liberty Magazine. At Davidson, this
opposition to the ownership of cars has been
anticipated and fortunately our institution
is free from this newly-recognized menace.

THE COLLEGE PRESS

Today there is. gathered at Guilford Col-
lege, as the guests of the Guilfordian, a host
of young men and young women connected
either in a business or editorial capacity
with North Cagolina’s leading collegiate
publications. It is just another semi-annual
convention of the North Carolina Press As-
sociation, but unlike a multitude of other
conventions, there will undoubtedly be great
benefits derived from this intermingling of
editors and the open-forum discussions at
Guilford.

The college press in North Carolina, as
elsewhere in our great land, still faces a
crucial test. The idea of colleges issuing
publications of their own, especially in the
way of daily, weekly, or semi-weekly news-
yapers is still young, and in spite of the fact
“that his has been the vogue for some years,
college publications are undeniably in their
embryo stage. During the next ten years,
we venture to prophesy, there will be a revo-
lution in the form, policy and make-up of
the average college journal such as present
collegiate editors cannot now imagine. Our
basis for such a prophesy is the develop-
ment that has come during the past five
years.

College papers are distinctly molders of
opinion on the college campus, and mediums
of expression for student views. As such, it
faces many problems peculiar to this type of
journalism alone. College publications can-
not be run in the same mayner as outside
newspapers. Their problems;-théir needs,
their purposes are to a large extent differ-
ent. As molders of opinion, college editors
face a task and a responsibility that is sel-
dom fully appreciated. As a medium of ex-
pression for students, college papers are face
to face.with baffling and disconcerting prob-
lems. More freedom of expression, less
stringent supervision by the faculty, better
co-operation between the publications of the
various colleges, sounder methods of fi-
nancing—all these and a hundred other
remedies have been suggested and one by
one, they have been discarded or ignored.
Yet, there must be some value to each.

It is on the shoulders of the little group
of editors that are today assembled at Guil-
ford that rests the responsibility of finding
some tangible remedies for the evils and
problems of the college press. The David-
sonian sends its felicitations to them, and
wishes them Godspeed in their serious and
important mission.

The Seniors have certainly made up an
interesting schedule of events for Com-
mencement, and no student will regret
staying over for these final exercises.

From a supply of twelve hundred towels the
Physical Education Department at N. C. State has
only five hundred left. We suppose that by “mis-
take or otherwise” these towels found their ways,
one by oné, into the student laundry. From now
on student’ will be required to furnish their own
towels at the gym.

Open Forum

THE FRESHMAN COMPLEX AT
DAVIDSON

From various sources on the campus the “fresh-
man situation” at Davidson has been and is being
continually deplored. It has been almost- three
years since the Court of Control regime was in-
stituted. The court has never been more than an
experiment, of course, and was tried since it
seemed to be the most promising instrument for
controlling the new men after the time-honored
paddle had been abandoned.

As the Seniors surely remember, a strong cle-
ment in the student body was violently opposed
to the court at its inauguration, and a number al-
most as large weré candidly dubious of the court
at that time and voted for it solely because there
was a demand for some substitute for hazing.

Three years is time enough to give one the
right to sanely evaluate an institution such as the
court. And a question more or less pertinent in
the minds of every Davidson student at this time
Has the Court of Control plan been a suc-
cess? We believe that ninety per cent of the
student body will answer emphatically “No.” The
writer would certainly be listed among the nays,
and he believes that he bases his attitude on suffi-
cient reasons.

3ut it is only fair before proceeding with these
reasons to state that we think the court has al-
ways been peculiarly fortunate in its choice of
judges; especially this year have the two leaders
been able men. And the personnel of the
court almost without exception has been com-
posed of men high in the trust of the student
body. The trouble has never been largely due to
any weakness or deficiency on the part of the
members of the court.

is:

Among our strongest arguments against the
court are:
First, it is unfair to the individual freshmen.

Certain freshmen, no more “horsey” than their
fellows, are continually sentenced because it has
become popular to turn up that particular fresh-
man. And when a man has been up once before
the court, his chances for favorable consideration
in the future are materially lessened. The fol-
lowing case has come to the writer’s attention,
not from the freshman concerned but from other
reliable sources. A certain soph, not over-pleas-
ing in personality, at his best, goes into the fresh-
man’s room and dumps the freshman’s bed before
his eyes several times. The freshman arranges
the bed each time without, however, speaking to
the soph at an time. The soph turns him up for
not speaking and he gets the cap. Did not the
freshman act as civilly as a man could be expected
to act under the circumstances? We think he did
very well not to “cuss” him out. We think that
this case more nearly resembled hazing than
“horsing.” And every one admits that many
freshmen most richly deserving a sentence escape
because of powerful friends or connections and
these friends hate (and rightly so) to place the
stigma of a yellow cap upon one in whom they
have an interest.
men who have a limited circle of friends who are
made the goats.

Secondly, much of the punishment is over-
harsh. One freshman on a debating team, which
takes all of one’s spare time, must,,get up certain
mornings at four-thirty and walk guard with a
Springfield rifle on his shoulder until 7:45. This
is more than harsh upon a boy of sixteen years
who weighs less than one hundred and twenty-
five pounds. Such punishment smacks of Prus-
sian discipline or of a school for the reclamation
of hardened Cossacks, and not of a school for the
promotion of intellectual aspirations. Nor are
these forms of punishment unique.

We venture to say that 200 members of our
freshman class would prefer the severest pad-
dling. ee

The yellow cap has a certain opptobrium attach-
ed to it which often stays with one through col-
lege, It has the element of branding one, rather
than any ideal of freshman training which is
supposed to prompt such a punishment.

Again, the policy of making freshmen work on
the Athletic Field is preposterous. Such a thing
inspires no greater love or loyalty for the school.
It arouses a spirit of resentment, rather than re-
sulting in the abolition of the haughtiness and
pride which characterizes certain freshmen in
college. And all must work alike—both the sheep
and the goats. Other defenses are made of this
plan, we hear, but alh of them are strangely un-
convincing. We believe the chief stimulus for
working the freshmen is that the Athletic Asso-
ciation gets a vast amount of work for which it
puts out no money. It certainly does this what-
ever the motive. How can we defend such a sham
under the pretense of training freshmen?

And now apart from the court (and we have
barely touched its faults) we need some logical
definition of hazing. We suspend a man for tap-
ping a freshman a few times with a six-inch ruler
or one blow with a belt, while every day some
freshman walks a mile or two in order to carry
laundry. Or we work them two hours on Rich-
ardson Field. Gentlemen, among those things
there is something which tells us that such policies
are contradictory, illogical, and absurd. If physi-

It is nearly always those fresh- ~

| buy these.

cal hardship is any criterion of hazing then both
these instances are much worse than any case of
hazing for which the six men were suspended last
fall. Some one wails: It’s the spirit of the thing.
One time it is one of carelessness and in the other
it is a deliberate attempt to stop “horsing.” And
we will venture to say that the fresh prefer the
ruler. As for worknig on the Athletic Field, that
is nothing more nor less than organized hazing of
a peculiar hateful type which is permitted because
it is a creature of the court, We have forgotten
that we supposedly ablished hazing to protect the
freshman and now have changed our method but
in reality we haze still. No one ever sanely de-
fined hazing as paddling alone. If it is physical
hardship we are sceking to abolish, our one
achievement has, been to change its form.
Another form of hazing is asking, which really
amounts to requiring the freshmen to buy sweat-
ers for the football men. Now we believe as firmly
as anyone that the varsity men should have
sweaters. But the Athletic Association should
The football men do long and hard
work and make sacrifices we all know for the

| sake of the team; and this same team is the agent
| which brings in practically the entire profits made

by the Association. Certainly then the organiza-
tion, which profits from the team, should furnish

| Hy; z
some form of recognition for the team’s services,

}-and not leave this to the freshmen.

Many fresh-
men are really unable to meet this assessment and
many others think it fundamentally unfair. Rath-

| er than fostering school spirit, as we loudly ac-

claim our purpose to be, we are arousing a very

| real hostility—and justly so.

| classmen,

No true patriotism has ever yet been engendered
by force. Compulsory cheering is just a poor
substitute to make for the failure of the upper-
This is obvious when we remember that
these upperclassmen have already gone through
this same training and with no encouraging re-
sults.

What is your substitute, you ask? Frankly, we
think the old hazing regime much fairer and
more succéssful than the present system. How-
ever, if for no other reason, this is impracticable
Decause the administration is opposed to it. The
most promising plan seems to be that in vogue at
Carolina. Remove all restrictions, Many fresh-
men are saner and more loyal than as many up-
per classmen and are their equals and in many
ways their superiors. Let the fresh cps be re-
tained for purposes of identification. For com-
pulsory attendance at pep meetings an appeal to
one’s patriotism in chapel or a series of strong
talks under the auspices of the council would have
much more permanent beneficial effects. Let us
try mental training in a school where the mind is
supposed to be the medium for inculcating justice
and knowledge into one. And this fact is beyond
refutation: When Davidson finally becomes a
University our present system will be inevitably
discarded because it has no chance in a large in-
stitution. (Admittedly these evils are not pecu-
liar to Davidson.)

Now, we admit that we may not know all the
facts in the case and thereby may have drawn
some false conclusions. If so we regret it. But
we are certain that there is something radically
wrong with our present system and the sooner
the spotlight of interrogation is turned on the
evil the sooner some one will arrive at a remedy.
Of course there is no absolute remedy but there
must be some chance for amelioration.

We wonder what attitude Amherse, Harvard, or
Leland Stanford would assume towards our meth-
ods of freshman training? As one who is truly
glad to be a Davidson man, the writer is unwilling
that we should subscribe to those systems which
are abhorred by number one schools, among
which Davidson is hoping to eventually achieve a
place.

ROLAND B. PARKER

Would Davidson College be justified in offer-
ing some inducement to athletes to choose this
as their college?

W. C. Penn: Davidson is known all over the
state for avoiding this, and as it is, it has as good
teams as those that do.

Joe Willard: I think that Davidson should
keep athletics clean, for it would mean more to
the school.

M. L. Carroll: Giving an athlete his board or
tuition would be all right if he needed it, but he
should not be given money to come here.

R. G. Wilson: No, I don’t; it would kill the
spirit of the school, and would tend to lower the
scholastic standing.

W. M. Regen: No, for Davidson has the en-
viable reputation that she does not play ringers,
but that the men come here voluntarily.

J. A. Overton: I think it would be all right to
pay their tuition or something like that.

G. McMillan: No, I think it would hurt the
Davidson spirit. :

R. B. Parker: No, for it is one of the David-
son traditions I would hate to see go.

T. S. Lawson: No, for my’ sentiments are the
same as Parker’s.

J. F. Hollingsworth: No, for this is the under-
lying reason for Davidson’s reputation.

Ernest Milton: The payment of athletes by
colleges inevitably leads to contamination of
athletics, a disruption of faith in teams, and an
incessant condemnation of the college by outside,
disinterested people. 5
