6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

DAVIDSON LEADERS GO MISSIONARY ADDRESSES
“Y” ON SUNDAY EVENING

(Continued from page 1)
the University of Kentucky. The
opinions as expressed were representa- |
tive of the leading though among college — Rey. Charles F. Crane was the speaker at
students today, practically all of the the “Y” vespers on last Sunday afternoon
members ofthe conference being student and gave an interesting and inspiring talk |
body presidents. on the needs of the mission fields, with spe- |

cial reference to the Belgian Cogo in Africa |
where he has given up his life to work among
THE the natives. Mr. Crane's sincere manner

‘

and his first-hand information about the work
{made a ‘fine impression on the rather small
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT-.
COME IN

, audience.
221 W. Trade St.

in order to get a picture of the field before ,
his audience, the speaker took up the in- |
habitants and characterized them in a way
which perhaps surprised most of his hearers.
| The people of this territory, according to the
missionary, are of great physical strength
and in addition, of a high mentality. They
/are a migratory race, however, and the sub-
[pzssseeassenssennssasassssasssssssssssacesem)] SC(UCHt and frequent change in their lan-

ie

'

Charlotte, N. C.

—

. ° guages and dialects are a source of constant
Pressing, Business !

trouble to the missionaries in their work.
Yes, that's us, but we have plenty

In taking up next the attractions of the
field Rev. Mr. Crane said: “Of all the at-
time to do yours and we clean and
press ‘em right.

tractions of the work, probably the greatest
is its beauty. There is not a single mission |
Buy a ticket an

sve the differ. station of ours which is not a beauty spot.”

ence. Another source of the interest is the study
Proprietors of primitive conditions. The people in the

Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox j station considered are much similar to the
Reprteentnives people of the Bible in their habits and cus-

toms and are consequently apt at catching the
parables and illustrations of Jesus. Another
attraction mentioned by the speaker was the
{humor of the natives. He declared that he
had gotten more hearty laughs in African
{than in any other place in the world. He
lasserted also that the Africans were a lev-
jable people, and cited instances of sacrifice
land devotion to support his statement.

Under the head of their needs, th: mis-
sionary told of the filthy conditions and
| squalid surroundings of their life. The
‘medicine men are one of the greatest evils
jand the medical facilities are so. poor that
75 per cent of the infants die, Their mental
jneeds are fully as great as the physical for
there is little or no literature or educational
system. The lack of an-ethical code in the
|native religions and’? the barbarous practices
jthey sanction make the religious need the
i greatest of all.

ln speaking finally of the qualifications and
ithe call, Mr. Crane urged those who were
considering the work not to neglect their
}education in the belief that it would not be
needéd. He also emphasized the fact that a
;man who goes must be willing to undertake
anything which he is called upon to do. In
{summarizing a call to the foreign field he
| gave the three words, ‘The need, the ability,
{and the open door!”

The meeting was led by Tom Barr, Grie
| Davis led the singing and Joe Garrison and
| Archie Williford led in prayer. Jim Caligan
| rendered a special songs

Bohannon---Leggett---Woodham

FELLOWS

We are always ready toserve
those delicious meals.
Come in any time

The New York Cafe

Charlotte, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
. Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON LOSES

(Continued from page 2)
AB RHPOAE

Davidson

Woodham, tb ---------- 400900
| Moncton) Ce cee Zh) et a)
MaNGeC) nieee a as Aa40) 2)-4y 0) 0
LA lford,-lf-sssccesecccs=se AvsOnal tees Ola0)
} aindipp eto os cece 400021
Dilinge@ beessssesseeeneese a) (0) Gg}
For that Feed | °°. 100000
: e NmGugler;-ss-ccsescs 25) 2 ONO 4 35-0
Glennieh 2222 ees 2 0 0 2-0 3
For that Outin | Davis, rf I 00000
; J | Black, ¢ rT 0 0 2'0 0
: : Huie, p 10001 0
For that Party Mig tal Sines a Oe ee 32 0 32410 5
Glemsonees ae AB R HPOA E
biludgenswebpressa=sseaeees 42) 3b Og
We call your atten- alll) Moore, ef 2222--------- Ag 3 Ao o
| Martin, rf _----.-...-_- Asta) 10) .0170
tion to our grocery | Milling, If ---------_-_- 5 0000 0
oe DUnlapnesse=sssenese sees 400100
| Eskew, tb --- 9 00
department. Fancy Atbottigb: 2 4001T1
i Sas, MCG Sicte2. sos See 4 1 212 00
groceries a specialty SHH, 9 cease 402000
SHarmot=-2- 26-2 sescee o10000
Notal geese see es 36 91027 4 1

*Ran for Smith in 6th.

Score by innings:

Daxidson. nna eens

DAVIDSON, N. C. ae pe leet ate

Sacrifices, Moore, Martin, Stolen bases,
Martin (2) Moore and McGill. Two base
hit, Vance. Three base hit, Martin. Home
run, McGill. Bases on balls, off Smith 2,
Laird 1. Struck out, by Smith 11, Laird
2, Huie 2. Double play, Laird, Kugler
and Woodham. Passed ball, Vance. Um-

After an introductory geographical study |

Prof. Erwin Gives

Talk in Charlotte

Prof. Edwin Erwin, of the English De-
partment of Davidson College, recently de-
livered an address on “The Spirit of America
in Literature,” before the Charlotte Chapter
of the Daughters of the American Revolution
at the home of Mrs. F. M. Laxton.

Professor Erwin is a descendant of a
signer of the Mecklenburg’ Declaration and
in a pageant in Charlotte last May played
the part of a “Covenanter.” A summary of
his speech follows:

“No American writer has yet produced
one great poem, play, or novel, which ex-
presses the whole American spirit, as did the
great European writers in various countries,
in writing the great poems, plays, and novels,
expressing the spirit of the time and country
in which they dwelt,

America lacks a great epic past. We lack
the long years of background which Europe
has. Longfellow in “Hiawatha” tried to write
an epic of America; but the epic of the red
man is not that of the white man of Amer-
ica.’ We are too heterogeneous in race to
express in one poem the epic of the Amer-
ican spirit. It will probably be years before
such a poem will be written. We sprang
from European culture in an advanced stage.
The writings of Shakespeare, of Milton, be-
long to America as well as to Europe. Irv-
ing, Hawthorne, and Poe wrote much as did
European writers. We have builded on the
literature of Europe.

Ours is a very large country, and life in

many ways is very different; and it is diffi-
cult to write one poem, play, or novel, ex-
pressive of the entire country. We have no
one great city which expresses the spirit of
the whole country. In ancient days “all
roads led to Rome; in England, today, Lon-
don is expressive of England; in France,
Paris expresses the spirit of all France. Our |
great cities do not thus express, in any one
city, the entire country,

The spirit of America combines idealism
with materialism. “Energy” might be said
to be the keyword. We have shown marvel-
ous accomplishments in the wonderful ma-
terialistic progress of America; on the other
hand, there is the idealistic side as shown in
our various wars, when we have been fighting
for idealistic, altruistic principles.

Ours is an unfinished country; and has a
buoyancy, an optimism of outlook which is
not found in other lands, America has a
youthfulness of spirit which is idealistic and
romantic. How, then, has our literature ex-
pressed this spirit of idealism and material-
ism? It has been said that we: have not de-
veloped a body of literature which is truly
American, that we have not produced many |
great musicians, artists, etc.; also, it is said
of us that we are too money-loving.

The War Between the States divides our
literature into two periods, from the year
1800 until the present time. During the first |
half of that period there was a group closely
following the foot-steps of Scott, and other
European writers with scenes, however, laid
in this country. Emerson, Hawthorne, and
Poe, are three great figures in that period.
After that war, our country became one
united country ; and Walt Whitman appeared
and came very near expressing the whole |
American spirit. Had he possessed a little
more artistry he would have reached the
great ideal of the American spirit in litera-
ture.

In the second period of literature ref@red |
to, there have come many writers who have
expressed the spirit of the section in which
they lived: Bret Harte with his pictures of |
the West, Joel Chandler Harris, Thomas!
Nelson Page, George Cable, James Lane
Allen, of the South; and others who have
written of one particular section of our great
country,

Mark Twain, who was a real American
humorist, and philosopher of life, came near-
er than most of our writers in expressing a
real American spirit in his writings. Emer-|
son, Hawthorne, and Poe, form a notable |
group oi writers in that period, also portray- |
ing the American spirit. |

With the World War has come a change |
in our American literature. Woodrow Wil- |

is expressive of the American spirit. Today, |
however, among our writers, there is one|
group which tells us that all is well; another
group, that there are many plague-spots in
our country. These give us a one-sided pic-
ture perhaps; but the writing of the last
ten years gives us a tonic which we need—to
analyze our American literature. Literature
today has a more direct bearing on our life

pire, Galloway. Time, 1:45.

than ever before. There is an unusual

the Kast, in the far West, in the South, in -

son» possessed much of that idealism which | :

Two Debates Scheduled
For the > Present Week

Branch and Wharton to Represent
Davidson Against Sewanee Team

Don Wharton and Harllee Branch left
today to meet the Sewanee debating team at
Sewanee, Tenn., Friday, the 30th. The sub-
ject for this debate is, “Resolved, That the
United States should establish a Department
of National Defense with sub-branches for
the Army, Navy and Air Forces.” This was
also the subject for the Davidson-V. P. I.
debate, and Wharton and Branch are well
prepared on it. Although this is the first
tinte Davidson has debated Sewanee, plans
have already been laid to meet them here
next year,

Another Davidson team defeated P. C.
at Rock Hill, Tuesday, the 27th. The query
“Resolved, That the United States
should enter the World Court.” This team
was composed of T. G. McCutcheon, Don
Stewart, and FE. T. Pullen, with W. A.
Christian as alternate. The Davidson team
had the affirmative side of the question. The
debate was held in the Winthrop College
auditorium, This is the second time the Da-
vidson and P, C. teams have met. Davidson
won last year,

Davidson seems to have gotten a slow start
in debating this year. For about the last 20
years the local team has won over two-thirds
of its debates, but this year two contests
have already been lost.

Was,

CLEMSON TRACK TEAM

(Continued from page 1)
Two mile — Fickett (Tech),
(Tech), Penn (Dav.)
Time 10 minutes 33 4-5 seconds.
120 High hurdles—Blackeney (Clem.),
Roberts (Tech), Sims (Day.)
Time 16 1-5 seconds,

Roberts

220 low hurdles—Banks (Clem), Blake-
ney (Clem), Sprick (Tech),

Time 27 seconds,
Pole-vault—Odell (Clem.), Conley (Tech),
Jennings (Dav.) and Cullum (Clem.) tied
for second and third,

Height 12 ft.

amount of interest in poetry; and much
poetry is being writtens*"The literary of
America may be said to have shifted from
New York to Chicago; and the best litera-
ture of the present day may be found perhaps
in the middle west. Many Southern cities and
colleges have been made vibrant with the
expression of the modern life of America
through literature. At the University of
North Carolina much excellent literary work
is being done. We are on the verge of a

| great period of creative writing; and it may

be that we will find.that in North Carolina

|—perhaps right here in Charlotte—some day

not far distant, some writer will express in
a great poem play, or novel, the spirit of
our great country.”

High jump—Calhoun (Dav.), Perkins
(Tech); Brock and Odell (Clem).

Height 5 ft. 9 inches.
Discus—Hood (Tech), Ivy (Tech),
hannon (Day.)

Distance 119 ft.
Broad jump—Odell (Clem), Jones (Tech),
Midkiff (Clem.)

Distance 21 ft. 1 inch.
Javelin—Dupree (Clem.), Beason (Clem.),
Bohannon (Dav,) -

Distance 148 ft. 8 inches.
Shot Put—Hood (Tech), Finklea (Clem.),
Roy (Clem.)

Distance, 40 ft. 3 1-4 inches.

Bo-

Fellows:

You'll always find a well
equipped U-Drive It
Ford at the right

price at

Henderson's Filling Station

Davidson, N. C.

PILOT MOUNTAIN: NORTH CAROUNA

| THE PILOT |
Fn

For the College Man

‘The Pilot Life Insurance
Company provides. a con-
tract at one-half regular

premium rates during the
first five years.

This liberal feature makes
it convenient for the college
man to get his life insur-
ance at his present age and
carry it for the least possi-

ble cost during college days.

See that you get your
protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N.C.

A. W. McALISTER, President

E. K. REGEN

---THE-=-

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL

Synonymous for excellent board and
good service---at just the right price

“Davidsonians” play five nights a week
during dinner hour

“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets
_ given special attention

MANAGERS
E. FE. BOHANNON

H. UL; SHAW, Jr.

spring suits in

15 East Trade Street

" Stepping Right Out This Season

We’ve got some wonderfully good-looking

shades and fabrics

Mail orders solicited

THE VOGUE

THE SHOP FOR MEN

all the newest

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

