4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

i

nen

ssi ee eee Sears roe Pda

The Haevidionian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

“SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
109 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE, BRANCH, JR.

‘eaneed Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES-.-..

.-Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wie biebINn Gi tiie cubase usdeecseean Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS. .....Athletic Editor

.....-Associate Editor
eS m ray < Alumni Editor
...-Exchange Editor
--Humorous: Editor
.--.------Alumni_ Editor
sip Assignment Editor
....----Feature Editor
Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF

E. L. DOUGLASS. -.-- .--Assistant Rusiness Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD _Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE Assistant Business Manager
. A. McALPIN .-----Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT-.. ..-Circulation Manager

R. S. ABERNETHY..........................-Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN

JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BRO R. H. McILWAINE

J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT

L. WADSWORTH A, M. SPARROW

TYREE DILLARD) © B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

When Davidson students rise today at
Duke to sing “College Ties,” many hearts
will fill with sadness. Today’s game marks
the clase of the football career of nineteen
courageous and loyal Wildcat gridiron
heroes, and the college hymn for them today
will be a true “Swan Song.” ;

D

Davidson needs more efficient protection
from the Fire menace. The tragedy that
last Sunday night, along with the “Fire” that
disturbed our otherwise tranquil existence
blew onto our campus with the Queens Glee
Club last Tuesday afternoon has brought
this need vividly to our attention.

D

The Wildcat Spirit of which Davidson stu-
dents have boasted so much and so loudly in
recent years is seemingly very “wild.” In
fact, it must be roaming around at large—
no evidence of it being present on our cam-
pus in recent weeks, except during infre-
quent intervals at which time it has paid us
a short and totally unsatisfactory return
visit.

Coaches Younger and Tilson have worked
wonders with our football team. To them
goes much of the credit for the succes of the
Wildcats in the State championship race
this. fall. We trust they both shall live a
long time—and always at Davidson!

THANKSGIVING

Championship football games, long-anti-
cipated hunting expeditions, egg nog par-
ties, and a general spirit of irrreverence have
seemingly supplanted the old fashioned
ardor of Thanksgiving. From the profound-
ly reverent. stock of our Puritan forbears,
who once each year bowed their heads in
worshipful thanksgiving to a Heavenly fa-
ther, there has seemingly sprung a pleasure-
mad and joy-seeking race.

This reversal of form on the part of the
great American public is to be excused none
the more because it is in line with a gen-
eral change of attitude throughout the
«world. What America needs most today is
a vigorous reaction toward old-fashioned
religion. The worship of the gods of Pleas-
ure, Intellect, Industrialism, and -Reason
have failed thus far to bring either peace or
brotherly love into the world. They have
failed also to bring satisfaction to the in-

dividuals who have willingly bowed them-

selves down in worship before them.

We have spent too much time of late in
satisfying our appetites for pleasure and for
material wealth. We have ignored too long
the blessings of a benevolent God.

Thanksgiving Day furnishes us with a fine

opportunity to pause for a moment, at least, .

in our Hell-bent rampage, and meditate on
the bountiful blessings that have come to us
through a generous and patient Father. It
is fitting that we should’ rest today from the
hilarious and chaotic existence that we are
leading, and contemplate the greater joys
that will come to us through a life of un-
selfish service to our God and to our fellow-
man,

a

Too little attention is being paid to the cul-
tivation of the soul in our modernistic rush
toward education. We are flitting along
gleefully in search of new religion, for-
getting in the light-heartedness of our mad
rush the duty we owe to the God of our
fathers, by whose mercy and patience alone
we are permitted to continue our irreverent
rampage. “But, the Lord, our God is a
jealous God’—and even His divine patience
will reach a point at last where it will rebel
against our igratitude.

College men as a class should be especial-
ly thankful to God for the blessings that are
theirs, but Davidson men, by virtue of the
greater benefits conferred upon them, should
this day show more profound and thankful
appreciation to their Lord.

Foothall championships are things. of
which we may well feel proud, but in our
enthusiasm over football, let us not forget
to he grateful to Him this day for the mani-
fold blessings received from Him during the
past year.

FOR BETTER GOVERNMENT

_It is generally rumored about the campus
that the Student Council is preparing to
clarify the constitution under which our
Student Government is maintained. This
clarification will be widely welcomed by
those who have long felt the need for a
strict interpretation of the rules by which
we are governed.

The need of a definite stand by the Coun-
cil in regard to the various provisions of
the Constitution, by virtue of which it oper-
ates as a government body, has long been
felt, and it seems that now the need is to
be met.

The need along these lines has been par-
ticularly acute with reference to the exact
meaning of those provisions of the Consti-
tution having reference to cheating, drink-
ing, and gambling. The lack of a strict in-
terpretation by the council on these classes
has undoubtedly led to inadequate enforce-
ment by. the council- and misunderstanding
on the part of the student body.

All students have known that gambling in
its usual forms was not to be tolerated on
our campus, but there has been considerable
laxity in the matter of wiping out the evils

of gambling in its lesser forms, such as

matching for coins and drinks, betting on
prize fights, football games, and world series
contests. There is no room for discrimina-
tion along these lines. Gambling in the
form of dice tossing and card playing can-
not be outlawed if we are to tolerate the
petty forms that will lead ultimately to the
collapse of our student government system.
The Council must maintain a consistent posi-
tion on such matters.

With regards to cheating, the need for a
broad interpretation is perhaps mor¢ em-

phatic than in any other department of our-

student government. How can our Council
excuse itself for dismissing students who
cheat on examinations and reviews, while
it winks at cheating that prevails in many
class-rooms during daily recitations? In
certain lecture courses, where the tendency
is toward open forum discussions rather
than to questioning, the practice of referring
to textbooks may perhaps’be justified. But,
in classes, where the instructors have defi-
nitely prohibited open textbooks and
prompting among the students, our Coun-
cil must take steps to wipe out an influence
that is threatening to rob the Council of its
power to punish violators.

The clause in our Constitution which pro-
hibits the use of or possession of intoxicat-
ing liquors on the campus is undoubtedly
the bugahoo of the whole governmental
policy. We have instructed the Council to
punish students who are known to imbibe of
intoxicants, and yet, the students in some
instances openly dare the council to exer-
cise its authority in this direction. For-
tunately, Davidson students are not given
to drink in any alarming numbers but if our
Council would uphold the Constitution, it
must see that liquors are not permitted on
our campus in fact as well as in fancy.

The time has come when the Council must
take a definite stand on the matter of Con-
stitutional enforcement. Students must un-
derstand exactly what is permitted afid what
is prohibited of them, and after that. the
Council must act with finality:and unswerv-
ing authority in enforcing the student Con-
stitution,

_ Instead of the “Amen” or “Glory to God,”
the cries of ecstatic Christians, these reli-
gionists have special phrases of their own.
At Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical
College “Beat Washington” is answered fer-
vently when the student’s name is called in
class: Professors, it will be observed, do not
_always approve of this worship in its most
perfervid forms.

<>,
i

te

When Old Friends Must Part

(EDITORIAL COMMENT ON THE DAVIDSON-P. C. BREAK)

Editor’s Note: The folowing comment on the
the severence of athletic relationships between
Davidson and the Presbyterian College of South
Carolina has been prompted by an editorial which
appeared in the November 20th issue of the Pres-
byterian College Blue Stocking, a weekly publi-
cation at the Clinton college. Previous to this
time, The Davidsonian has refrained from express-
ing any opinion on the matter, feeling that it was
a controversy to be settled by the athletic asso-
ciations of the two schools. We regret that the
action of the P. C. Blue Stocking has forced us to
carry the matter to print, but, in all fairness to
Davidson students and athletic authorities! we felt
compelled to do this after the manner in which
the break was treated by our contemporary jour-
nal. . In deference to P. C., we have reproduced the
editorial which appeared in the Blue Stocking.

BLUE STOCKING IRONY
DAVIDSON TACTICS

The recent announcement of Davidson’s 1927
football schedule cannot fail to draw a smile from
the students of at least two colleges. Davidson
drops Presbyterian College and Hampden-Sidney
from her list of opponents to take on Florida and
the Citadel.

Whatever might -be the statements given out

| to newspaper reporters, it requires no Sherlock

Holmes tio see that Davidson does not wish to
risk defeat again at the hands of two of her
strongest opponents of the past season. Accord-
ing to the statement of her own coach, Davidson
received a powerful boost towards winning over
P. C. in Winthrop stadium through the errors of
an inefficient atid stubborn referee. As it was,
the margin of victory was a field goal. Davidson
went down before Hampden-Sidney to the score
of 12 too.

Now it does not take a lot of reasoning to reach
the conclusion that it does no good to Davidson’s
football reputation to be held to a close score bya
college one-third her size or even to come out at
the small end of the score.

Davidson has plenty of plausible reasons to the
man: that does not know the inside story. ‘“Be-
cause of the unpleasantness that occurred in the
Rock Hill game,” etc., she does not wish to meet
the P. C. football team for several years. Her
managers speak of the wisdom of putting off this
contest for several reasons because of the “exist-
ing animosity” between the two schools.

Accepting this resolution of the Wildcat man-
agers, P. C. agrees not to stage the game next
year, and accordingly return the unsigned con-
tract for a track meet between the two schools in
the spring. But Davidson does not wish to can-
cel the meet. And despite the suggestion from
P. C., she does not wish to cancel’ the freshman
game scheduled for today.

We fail at all to see how this can square up with
Davidson’s standpoint with regard to next year’s
football game. If there is any animosity between
the two institutions, we agree that the football
game should be put off. But why not track and
freshman competition as well? Animosities be-
tween colleges certainly extend further than play
on a gridiron. Can the animosity die down next
spring and give way to a spirit of sportsmanship
during a track meet, only to regain such strength
in the fall that a football game should be out of
the question? We think not.

As a matter of fact, the only real reason for
Davidson’s action, a reason which is as plain as
day to any one who thinks at all, is that the Wild-
cats fear. defeat and loss of prestige. Put off
the game a few years, we hear. Yes, that would
solve the problem, because in a couple of years
Stamps, Wilson Witherspoon, and the veterans
who have made this year’s team such a strong one,
will have passed out of the ranks of college foot-
ball players.

There has never been any animosity between
Presbyterian. College and Davidson that we know
of. If Davidson maintains that there is such a
feeling, we Will not deny it. Certainly it did not
originate on our:side. But if Davidson wants to
make a breach, she has taken the shortest path
toward reaching her goal.

We do not know what stand other teams and
other colleges might take in our stead, but we
sincerely hope that the breach thus made by
Davidson athletic officials will remain open for
an indefinite period. We do not care to meet
teams with such spirit.

P. C. does not drop small schools from her
schedule simply because she dreads defeat at the
hands-of a smaller institution. We want the
games for the sake of the school spirit and
healthy competition that goes with them.

DAVIDSON’S REPLY
_._ UNNECESSARY ROUGHNESS
The current issue of the Presbyterian College
Blue Stocking treats in detail the severance of
gridiron relationships. between Davidson and
P. C. A news story appearing on the front page
of P. C.’s most estimable journal discusses all the
causes and effects of the break, and carries. in
toto the correspondence which led to the breach.

_ Davidson game?

On the editorial page of the Blue Stocking, its
talented editor goes further-into the matter. of a
break between the two Presbyterian Colleges,
and sarcastically upbraids the Davidson author-
ities for initiating the move leading to the break.

The malicious insinuations of the editor. in his
comment on hte break between the two colleges
will be vigorously attacked by all Davidson men
who chance to read his words. He flagrantly
criticises Davidson for her inconsistency in the
matter of athletic relationships with his college,
and proceeds to censure the action of our ath-
letic directors in no mistakable fashion. He main-
tains that no feeling of animosity between the
two schools has existed.as far as P. C. students
are concerned, and yet he jumps into a word
attack against the Davidson authorities such as
could only result from a strong feeling of animos-
ity on his part. If these critics of inconsistency
were only more consistent themselves!

Presbyterian College is fortunate in that Da-
vidson authorities were forced to take the first
step in the direction of a break. This forced move
by the Davidson managers has given P. C. the
sentimental sympathy of a vast horde of news-
paper readers, who unacquainted with the circum-
stances leading to the break, are falling in line
with P. C. in her pathetic appeal for more con-
sistent sportsmanship.

Davidson students and alumni have long insisted
that P. C. be dropped from the Davidson schedule,
and the break came neither as a surprise nor a
disappointment to them. The demand for the
severance of athletic relationships between the
two colleges has long been heard from Davidson
supporters who have known of the hostility re-
sulting from a strained attitude on the part of
both colleges. Back in 1924.when the P. C.
coaches and athletic authorities attempted to rule
on the eligibility of Davidson players, the demand
for a break, as far as Davidson was concerned,
became distinctly insistent. Sentimentality and a
feeling of denominational fellowship led David-
son officials to disregard the howl for dropping
P. C. from the Wildcat schedule.

Then, in 192§ the two colleges met at Rock Hill

and Davidson won after a hard-fought and clean-
ly-played game. The feeling of friendship that
prevailed during the contest led to the belief
among Davidson alumni and students that at last
P. C. and Davidson could meet in friendly combat
and that the ill-feeling that had characterized
previous gridiron contests between the two
schools had passed. This feeling alone permitted
Davidson authorities to schedule a game with
P. C. for the present season, and even then there
were many who believed the continuance of grid-
iron connections with P. C. a grave error. The
wisdom of the latter group was clearly demon-
strated in the game at Rock Hill several weeks
ago, when Davidson again turned back the Blue
Stockings, but only after the most disagreeable
battle in the memory of present-day students.
_ Davidson students both orally and through the
columns of their student publications commended
the Presbyterian College for the baility of its
players and for the aggressiveness that char-
acterized their fight. Davidson has never min-
imized the talents or the gameness of its oppo-
nents and we were frank to admit that P. C.
Possessed a football team capable of troubling
even better teams than that of Davidson.

But, as to the sportsmanship displayed by the
P. C. players Davidson students ‘could not but
criticize. Davidson men are taught that under
no conditions is a player to strike at an official.
Davidson men are taught that profanity directed
either at an opponent or an official is unwar-
ranted on the athletic field, and naturally we were
surprised and disgusted when P. C. players showed
so little consideration for the ethics of the game.

Louder than ever came the demand that P. C.
be dropped from our gridiron schedule, and, at
last, the insistent cry was heeded: Davidson au-
thorities have acted wisely and in accordance with
the wishes and demands of their student and alum-
ni constituents. :

The P. C. editor wonders why Davidson desires
to drop P. C. from ker football schedule and not
from the schedules of other Wildcat teams. His
question is well taken, but, too impatient to wait
a reply from Davidson, this all-knowing oracle
and journalist proceeds to answer his own in-
quiry. “It requires no Sherlock Holmes,” he de-
clares, “to see that Davidson does not wish to
risk. defeat again at the hands of two of her
strongest opponents.” (Here the P. C. editor fear-
ful lest his arguments smack too strongly of pre-
judice, regrettably draws Hampden-Sidney into
the squabble he wants to stir up.)

The very absurdity of the Blue Stocking’s con-
tention that Davidson has dropped, P. C. because
she fears a defeat in 1927 is offensive. If there
is any semblage of truth in such a statement, will °
the P. C, editor please explain to us why David--
son has proceeded to substitute a contest with
the Citadel in lieu of the hitherto annual P. C.-
And will he also explain to us
why Davidson, if she was acting because of fear
of defeat, would have substituted a team of ‘the

(Continued on page 8)
