THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

TWO WILDCA

CHOICE OF ALL-STATE

Two Wildcat players, Grey and Bohannon,
were placed on the composite all-state team |
by the fans of the state. One of these men,
Dick Grey, was the second most popular with
the fans, being second only to Bill Riley, of
Wake Forest. Most of the positions, especially
that of fullback, were very closely contested. |
Spurlock, of Lenoir-Rhyne, and Outen, of
State, ran an especially close race for the
fullback position, with Spurlock finally win-
ning out with a/lead of 11 points. The posi- |
tion of Tight tackle was also decided by a}
very small margin. Morehead, of Carolina, |
won out in the end, however, polling 229
votes to 201 for Thompson, of Duke.

The interest in the choosing of this com-
posite all-state team was very great. Fans |
from all parts of the state sent in their picks.
A total of 51 players in all were named hy |
the different fans. There were 165 fans in|
all who sent in their picks, making the team
a really true all-state team. Carolina and
Wake Forest each placed three men on the
team, State and Davidson each placed two on
it, and the eleventh place was filled by Spur- |
lock, of Lenoir-Rhyne. This is the first all- |

state team ever chosen by the fans of North |

Carolina. The interest was so high, however.
and the response was so great and widespread
that this practice will probably be repeated
next year and every year as long as so much
interest is shown.

The all-state teams as selected by North |

Carolina football fans in the survey spon-
sored by the Raleigh News and Observer is
as follows: Left end; Riley, Wake
left tackle, Emmerson, Wake
guard, Whisnant, Carolina;
Carolina; right guard,
right tackle, Morehead,
Bohannon, Davidson:
Wake Forest; left half,
right half, McDowall,
lock, Lenoir-Rhyne.

The second team selected is: Left end,
McMurray, Carolina; left tackle, Thomp-
Duke; left guard, Boggs, Davidson:
center, McConnell, Davidson; right
Jones, Duke; right tackle, Phelps,
Forest; right end, Bennett, Duke; quarter,
Wilson, Davidson; left half, Ober, Wake
Forest; right half, Wells, Davidson; full-
back, Outen, State.

Paper Raises Wildcat
Mentor at at Wilmington

Bob Black, ’22, Has Had Sucéessful
Sexson as Coach

Forest:
Forest; left
center, Schwartz,

Nicholson, State;
Carolina; right end,

Rackley,
Davidson ;
fullback, Spur-

quarter,
Grey,
State;

son,
guard,
Wake

The following is an editorial from the
Wilmington uae Star, on the work of
Bob Black, ’22, as coach at Wilmington High,
where he is inculeating into his players the
spirit of fair play and fight:

Mr. R. L. Black, who is known to the
High School student body and several thou-
sand Wilmington fans who have followed the
destinies of the New Hanover High football
team as “Fightin’ Bob,” has rounded out his
fourth year as gridiron mentor at the local
high school and while he has not won a
state championship he has accomplished
something much bigger and finer—instilled
into his team a spirit of fairness and sports-
manship that will never get very far below
the surface in the long journey that lies
ahead of these boys as they trudge along
life’s highway.

Mr. Black not lifted team
Fame’s pinnacle but™he has molded the
thoughts of these boys along proper lines,

has his to

making them greater in defeat than they

might have been for another in victory. The
championship is still a yagary, something to
be looked forward to, while the character
he has builded in the boys under his influence
is an actuality and will be reflected in the
conduct and bearing of all who have come
under his influence.

Given another year it is entirely possible
that Mr. Black may produce a championship
team. In taking over the duties of coach,
he faced a gigantic task. He found it neces-
sary to change the entire system. Much
that had been learned by the boys had to he
forgotten. The natural result was a weak
team. But in the years that have rolled bv
the serious-eyed, silent pilot has plugged here
and patched there until his team was a dis-
tinct credit to the institution it represented.
Twice Mr. Black has led the boys to the
base of the summit only to see them turned
back, but in neither instance was an apology
necessary.

It is to the credit of those boys who car-
ried the Black and Gold standard this year
that they played clean ball.; They were gen-
tlemen on and off the field and their record
is one they may justly feel proud of.

| and your stead defensive. There is no ar-
| guiment about the title for 1926. The Wild-
| cats beat. Carolina, State and Duke, and tied
|the Wake Forest Demon Deacons. Wake
| Forest, the nearest competitor, was licked by
State, and that settles it. Charlotte and
| Mecklenburg should be proud of the Wildcats
9 for their splendid feat. I rather think the
Tribute to Cats folks around here are rather puffed up about
jit. All I heard on the streets was praise for

| Now that the Sines ot | of ten hectic gridiron | the Wildcats and their championship feat.
| battles has blown aside, and our sporting | | I won't bore the readers of this column with
| horizon is left fairly clear, it is interesting | a reprint of the way we picked them to end
to note a change in form (or pace, or what | the season. We had them picked in just
| have you) on the part of many sportswriters | about the right order, but upside down, In
'in the Old’ North State with reference to | ! other words, we had Carolina where David-

the football abilities of eleven husky Wild-| son should have been, and vice versa, ete.”
| cats of Davidson. It is also a source of pride | #loyd Simmons, who picks an all-state
| to Davidson men to read the observations of | football team for the Charlotte Observer
those sport scribes, who less opinionated, had every year, has.paid the Wildcats their great-
no last-minute repentence to make for their est single tribute. Here is what he had to

TS ON FANS?’

Writers Pay High

| unsuccessful predictions at the beginning of | say last Sunday: “Wildcats—a name with
the past football season. which to conjure. “Little Davidson, with
Old Wallace J. Minshull, who writes aj What seeming indifference ‘she plies her

| i weary way.’ But, isn’t she a finisher. Who

| lively sports column in the Greensboro Daily
| Record, comes mighty near to expressing our
| sentiments concerning the unsuccessful pre-
| dictions of certain sport scribes, who at the
| first of the season predicted that Davidson
| would do well to win a third or fourth place

doesn't admire Davidson? Small institution ;
small candidate squad of indifferent sizes and
weights, and invariably quite young. When
‘ the whistle blows, those eleven contest young-
sters rapidly mature. They are hard to de-

pat, regardless sir custom of usuall
lin the state championship race. - Here's i te ‘ eat i Hah cust at i 2 a y
i ; ’ ena . By snow a licking when
expression: “Davidson's winning of the | fshting Gite veclat elite e CEL ANT FAG be
‘they meet it. That intangible something

state pennant came as a surprise to all, but
| not much a surprise it was to the
experts who had positively stated that the
Presbyterians could not hope for better than,
third place. Which goes to prove that lis-
tening to the experts may be all right, pro-
| viding you bet the other way.”

Cecil Wilson, humorist and syndicated
writer for a number of North Carolina pa-
pers, fell in line to commend Davidson when
the said; “Well, Jake Wade says Da-
vidson beat. Carolina. Davidson has a good
team and I believe more true sportsmanship
than most any college | know of unless it is
Wake Forest, or Duke, or Carolina, or Guil-
ford, or Elon, or some of the other big col-
leges. But, kidding, I have
never known Davidson to play a dirty game
in any branch of athletics, and if Davidson
beats my team I know it was on the square,
because Davidson had rather
an unfair advantage,

called ‘spirit’ is an inseparable running mate
with the Red and Black outfits, which in-
variably makes them a desperate foe. Inci-
dentaliy, I wonder if the cofching staff hasn't
| something to do with this offspring of har-
mony, The David

son squad this year displayed well-grounded
rudiments of the game. They played intense
football. This is always gratifying. Her
forward line was not strong. Her backfield
Was not strong; but together they function- |
ed; and not indifferently either, . .
live Davidson!”

And Marvin Ritch, former coach and player |
at Carolina, who picky all-state teams for the
Charlotte News, adds his word of tribute

the Davidson Wildcats: “AI hail the |
King. Davidson College is, the 1926 football |
champions of the state.

as as

this thing called spirit ?

l see

Long

without any

for

A post-season skirm- |
and there |
is no fair-minded sport in the state who is not
willing to take his hat off, and slip the Meck- |
lenburg County institution, its players and |
j coaches, the right hand of fellowship upon |
| their accomplishments this season.
ideal football psychology existing at all times
‘on the campus; and with a bunch of hustling, |
clean, well-behaved young men there to carry
_the colors of their the
alumni of that place have nothing to worry
about, unless it should be the ill-effects to be
watched for as a result of winning a cham-
pionship. Just that word of caution, and then
hands are yours. Then we stand with
our heads uncovered in your presence and |
extend to you our sincere congratulations
upon the attainment on your part of the state
| championship of intercollegiate foothall this |

ish became absolutely unnecessary,
lose than take

such as breaking a fel-
I can say that with a straight
face, because I played against Davidson once,
and Davidson is about the only college in the
that IT have not attended as a fresh-

low’s nose, ete.

state
man.”

“Team work, fighting players, two excel-
lent coaches, and a student body that backed
the players and mentors—seem to have been
the determining factors which contributed to
Davidson's winning the state championship
title,” began a syndicated story which ap-
peared in a number of North Carolina papers
last week,

And, Jake Wade, pessimism over
Davidson’s chances to win a state title helped
more than any other thing toward keeping
the Wildcats from becoming fatally over- |

school, griends and)

our

whose

year!"
confident after their repeated victories, de-
serves something more than the usual “cuss- ican oneness
ing out” he has received around these parts. A Low Tree
There's one thing about Jake—he says wh: YY, fates
Ms thing about Jake—he says what Heber-——“When IT was in China | saw

he thinks, and usually what he thinks is suf- ; i Sas E nO)
ae ; : a woman hanging from a tree.
ficiently plausible to attract comment (cither ; a ae |
favorahle or unfavorable) in all sections of Neha Ohareals
the state—and that’s something most writers; Heber—‘No,
cannot boast. Old Jake made a whirlwind |sround.”
tour of the state football camps in the early
fall, and then wrote his idea of how the dif- |
ferent college teams would place in the | | COLLEG E JEWELRY
championship race. Jake was honest, but
somehow vhis usual good luck at “picking | |
winners” had deserted him. Back in Septem- Watches and Clocks
ber Jake was sure Davidson would show up |]: |
poorly, and he had to sort of stretch the point |
to predict that she'd even win a third place.
Davidson's winning of the State Title must
have been a bitter pill to Jake, but he swal-
lowed it like a man—and what's more he even
became enthusiastic over the Wildcat succéss.
Read what he had to say a few days ago and
compare it with his gloomy observations of |
a few weeks past: “Congratulations, Monk
and Tex, and all your fighting Wildcats and |
loyal supporters. Winning a state champion- |
ship in football these days is no mean feat.
You had to encounter keen competition on |
the gridiron this season, but jit. fell before |
the onslaught of your quick, sharp offensive, | L

about four feet from the |

\

]

—

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts |

Athletic Supplies |
| |

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler ||

DAVIDSON, N. C. |

DEVELOPING ENLARGING

PHOTOGRAPHY

CAMPUS VIEWS __ REFINISHING
W. A. ALEXANDER

43 EAST

Regen Makes Talk

lesting information regarding its people and

,though the missionaries are making valiant

With an |

THE RIGHT SPIRIT
to Volunteer Band

It has been reported that nineteen men on
Davidson’s football squad this year have
played their last game for their Alma Mater.
The strong Davidson team has won much
favorable comment, but the spirit displayed
is what has received most of the commenda-
tions Not especially to win, but to fight, and
to fight with unselfish motives, seems to have
been the motive ‘uppermost in the minds of
the players. Such as this speaks well for
any college.

The Volunteer Band held its regular meet-
ing last Sunday morning, and, after a short
devotional the program for the day was en-
tered upon. The Band has been studying the
“History of Missions,” by considering one
| mission’ field each week. Africa was the
topic for discussion and was ably presented
by H. L. Campbell.

In the introduction of his talk he spoke

It can’t be doubted that many colleges
of the size of Africa, and gave some inter-

over-emphasize the mere strength of their
teams and the sole idea of winning the game.
If one stakes too much on winning, one is
sorely hurt when he loses, but if a person
sets his mind on true sportsmanship, he has
everything to win and nothing to lose.

Hats off to Davidson! They have at last
developed the right spirit about athletics —
Wake “Old Gold and Black.”

geographical conditions. In the north, Egypt
with its modern Atheism is a barrier to the
missionary. Then Mohammedanism
sweeping across Africa in a great wave that
threatens to engulf the entire continent, al-

1S

efforts to
against it.

erect barrier of Christianity
In this struggle all denominations
of the Christian church are represented. Al-
though missionaries have been working in
Africa since the time of Christ, a great work
is yet to be done. Great heroes like Moffett
and Livingstone and humbler workers. as
well have contributed to the cause of wrest-
ing this great continent away from the forces
of fear and darkness which have held it in
bondage for so long.

The latter part

a Forest

DRINK

NuGrape

A FLAVOR YOU CANT FORGET

of the program was cut
short to allow E. K. Regen, '26, to speak to
the Band. He brought a short message of
greeting and encouragement in which he told
something of his life at Louisville Seminary.

NuGrape Bottling Co.

N. C. C. W.—“I kissed him when he

wasn’t looking.”
G. C. W.—What did he do?” |j 417 Dowd Road peer
N. C. C. W.—“He wouldn't look at me | CHARLOTTE, N. C.

for the rest of the evening.”

Smart Snaled Cotes For Coleg Mea
Tailored At Rochester

It requires months of
roaming the odd places
of Europe to assemble
the multitude of original
fabric ideas that have
made Braeburn Smart
Styled Clothes for Col-
lege Men famous.

Know Braeburn Clothes
once and swear allegiance

forever

$35 to $50
MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

