“JUNIOR WEEK~ALUMNI ISSUE

Second
Section

THEDAVI

Vol. XIII oy

:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1926

Special
_ Features

‘Lexington High Honors
| John Hunt by Memorial

“Popsy” Hunt, ’15, Died January
22nd of Pneumonia

SCHOOL GIVES TABLET

Hunt Was Star in Backfield for
Three Years

OLD GRADS FEEL URGE
TO RETURN TO CAMPUS
AS SPRING TIME COMES

One Who Has Been There Waxes Faculty Members’
Poetic as He Describes ights
j ane Cuapar’ _ Loves to be Found

of the Davidson Campus

There’s not a man in- the world, who was, Last week the faculty of Queens College
ever a student of Davidson, that doesn’t have| was canvassed and many startling confes-
lots of memories about the old college when) sions, as to their former love secrets, were
the springtime comes. When the trees begin | obtained. It is understood that similar can-
to turn green with leaves, and the grass be-| yasses will be made of the Davidson faculty this will be secured from the free-will offer-
neath them seems to begin life all over! a¢ an early date but exactly what the out- ings of the students in school there. “Popsy”
again is the time when all Davidson men! come will be is a mystery, for the majority | Hunt was teaching at Lexington High when
become homesick for the old college, and) of the Davidson professors are yet to be | he died and had just finished a most success-
only wish that they could be free long enough | pierced by cupid’s darts. The reason is a} ful season coaching the football team there
to take a trip back to the scenes of their col-! problem to which there are two solutions | during the past fall.
lege days, where they spent the best four! given, either the profs. are very poor in the; The nature of the memorial was decided
years of their lives. love-making business, or they do not attempt | at a student body meeting there a few days

It will not be long until class reunions will | this task which is so necessary in the method _ago. Representatives from all the classes
be held, for commencement will be here in| of obtaining a blushing’ bride. |were present and voted unanimously in
less than eight weeks, and the presidents of An additional question has been aded to favor of a tablet form of memorial. Plans
various classes are already sending out cir-! the questionnarie and it is doubtful as to the | are now being formulated for the exact type
culars to all the men in their classes*urging | answers that will be given it, for the question | Of the tablet and the donations towards the
them ‘to return with them for a chance to) will pertain to the number of leap-year pro-|Memorial are being received at Lexington.
recall bygone memories. |posals that each has obtained. Of course,| This is the only memorial in the school au-

A bronze memorial tablet will be placed in
the auditorium of the Lexington High School
in honor of John C. Hunt, Jr., who died of
pneumonia January 22nd. The money for

i ea leas
Wouldn't you like to see the rows of trees, | those who possess a nice little wife and home| ditorium.

casting long shadows made by the setting sun, | will answer in the*affirmative, for leap-year |

John C, “Popsy” Hunt graduated here

pore rier irae Places all over the cam-'has gotten a large portion of these noble | with the class of ’25 and is known by all
pus ouldn’t you have a thrill if you! men mixed in the bonds of matrimony. The | the upper-classmen here now, and by many

walked up to the old Chambers columns—all
that’s left of the once-famous building which |
was the center of activity during your un-
dergraduate days? You would undoubtedly
experience a thrill, but you would also feel
a pang of remorse at the thought that you |
are'no more able to run through those long |
halls, calling to some classmate, or singing |
a little love ditty which grew out of the
note that you just received from that girl
back home. |

But you are still able to make a visit to
‘your old society hall, the scene of many a}
debate which brought forth all the oratorical |
talent that was in many a man, and showed
him that he was called to be an orator, either
in the pulpit, or in the political halls of the’!
nation.

You will meet old friends—chums and |
buddies that you have not seen for years— |
that you have not seen since you left the
old campus—that. you will not see unless you |
return. Why not take a few days off and|
run up to see them? You will see successful |
business men and ministers who, when you |

(Continued on page 13)

Blackfriars’ Club ae |
Enj oyable Performance |

The Blackfriars, the dramatic club of
Agnes Scott College gave a very enjoyable
program Saturday night at the Central High
School auditorium in Charlotte: The club
was brought to Charlotte under the joint
auspices of the Charlotte Agnes Scott alum-
nae and the American Association of Uni-,
versity Women.

This is the first time that the Blackfriars |
have ever made a trip, except last year when
they went to Evansville, IIl., to enter a na-
tional contest, where they won third place.
Charlotte is the only place they are visiting
on this trip.

Of-interest to Davidson students should be
the fact that Miss Grace Augusta Ogden, |
the author of one of the plays, is the sister
of Warren Ogden, a junior at Davidson.
Miss Margaret Bland, the author of another,
is a Charlotte girl.

The program consisted of three well-acted
one-act plays, Aunt Teenie, by Miss Ogden;
The Darned Dress, by Miss Margaret Bland,
and Values, by Miss Polly Stone.

Aunt Teenie is the story of a woman who
is a fanatic on the subject of the sea. Her
home is beside the sea, and her constant liv-
ing there causes her to go crazy. The scen-
ery of this play was especially good.

Values is a story of three sisters, none of
whom want the care of their mother until

(Continued cn page 10)

(Continued on page 10) .

|

| (Continued on page 12)

SIX MEN IN DAVIDSON
HAVE BEEN HONORED AS

STUDENT B

Davidson Players

Aid Benefit Show

The Davidson Dramatic Club materially
aided the Kiwanis and Rotary clubs of Lex-
ington in their combined benefit performance
which was ‘given in the above named city
last Tuesdaty evening. Tailor Made, a one-
act comedy written by Frederick Smith, of
the local organization, was presented by a
Davidson cast, along with a vaudeville pro-
gram given by the local talent of Lexington.

The performance was given in the new
playhouse of Lexington, and it was crowded
to capacity by the townspeople. Approxi-
mately a thousand dollars was raised to help
the playgrounds fundy which these two clubs
are raising. Every part of the program was
enthusiastically received by the large au-
dience which laughed heartily at the antics of
the local boys and the jokes pulled on their
fellow citizens.

Tailor Made was given by the same cast
that presented it so successfully in January
with the two other one-cat plays written by
Davidson students. The author, who took

(Continued on page 11)

April Breezes

If I could ride as cloudlets ride
On pink and silvery seas,

I’d cast all worldly cares aside
To scamper with the breeze;

To nestle in a fairy boat
And sail o’er rippling rills,

To far-off lands of dreams I’d float

And play on sun-kissed hills.

I'd call a gentle zephyr, cool,
To frolic there with me,

Or splash beside some woodland pool

Beneath a moss-grown tree.

If I could glide as swallows do

Across slow-moving streams—
Then might I see my wish come true

And live my foolish dreams.

—C.F.S.

NA
YN,
\\ Ni
AW)
Ire

ODY LEADERS

Currie, Hillhouse, Hendrix, Sappen-
field and Baker Have Served in
Coveted Position—Pinkney
President Next Year

For the fifst time in the history of David-
son, and perhaps in the history of any col-
lege, there are six men on the campus who
have at one time or another been president
of the student body. These men ar, J. M.
Hendrix, Jr., T. S. Baker, N. E. Sappenfield,
A. M. Hillhouse, Dr. Currie and the rising’
president, J. F. Pinkney.

“Jim™ Hendrix is back at Davidson this
year, taking an M.A, in chemistry, to prepare
himself for work at the University of Penn-
sylvania, where he intends to study medicine
next year. Jim played for four years on
the Wildcat eleven and was included in the
all-state list of nearly every sport editor. He
carried out his duties as president of the
student body in-an admirable way, and praved
himself a leader in more ways than one.

Tom Baker is a senior this year, and, much
to the regret of the students and faculty as
well, is spending his last year with us. Tom
was also chosen by most sport writers as an
all-state football man, at the position of
tackle. He comes to us from Florida, and

=| during. his four years here has made for

himself the reputation of being a man worthy
of old Davidson.

“Nick” Sappenfield was elected president
of the student body for the year '25-'26, but
was unable to serve his full term on account
of a broken leg, which he received in the
first game of the season. Nick is known on
the campus and throughout the state as
“Davidson's brainy quarterback.” He will
be back again next year to pilot the eleven to
victory. His abilities have not been limited
to athletics alone, however. Nick has taken
a leading part in all the campus activities,
and has shown himself to be a true Christian
man.

“Spoofy” Hillhouse, of the class of '24, is
serving as general secretary of the Y. M.
C. A. this year. He is doing a big work
here on the campus, and, under his direction,
the “Y” has put on some excellent programs.
“Spoofy” is a Phi Beta>Kappa man and
would be a credit to any college.

(Continued on page 10)

Athletic Council Picks
Carroll as Manager

George Batte is Chosen as Fresh-
man Manager

At a recent meeting of the Athletic
Council, M. L. Carroll, of York, S. C.,,
was elected as manager of the basketball
team for next year. This election was
made when the managers were chosen.

Carroll has worked faithfully for this
position and by his attention to the team
he has proved his ability to dispense of
the ‘duties of this office. There were
three men eligible for the berth but Car-
roll won out over them. George Batte
was chosen as manager of the freshman
team.

Out of the Sophomore class Boyce
Martin, Robert Miller and Charlie Car-
son were chosen as the Junior managers
and will assist Carroll. There are sev-
eral men of the Freshman class out for
managers, and this department of basket-
ball will be well attended to during the
next season.

Carroll is well known among Davidson
students. He is a member of the Pi
| Kappa Alpha fraternity and stands high
jie the social activities of the campus.

| SIGN ON A CAFE WINDOW
| Eat here and you'll never eat anywhere
| else.

|
