TH

EDAVI

Vol. XIII

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1926

SONIAN

No. 30

College Editors Reiterate Stand For

Freedom of Press

E. G. Moore Delivers Keynote
Address Before Delegates

OFFICERS ELECTED

The Technician Wins Over the
Davidsonian in Vote for Best
College Paper

The eleventh semi-annual convention of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Asso-
ciation was held at Guilford College, April
29, 30, and May 1, with approximately 35
delegates representing 12 institutions attend-
ing the meetings. The delegates were enter-
tained and provided for by the staff of The
Guilfordian, weekly paper of Guilford Col-
lege,

At these meetings The Technician, weekly
paper of N.C. State College, was chosen as
the best college newspaper in North Caro-
lina, The Davidsonian was awarded second
place, and The Tar Heel, tri-weekly paper
of the University of North Carolina, was
chosen for third place. In the magazines,
The Archive, Duke University, was
chosen as the best college magazine in North
Carolina and the College Magazine, of the
University of North Carolina, was awarded
second place.

of

The officers of the association for the com-
ing year were also chosen at this convention.
They are follows: Byron
Guilford College, president; V. S. Broyles,
Davidson College, first vice-president ; Miss
Sallie Gordon, of Greensboro, second vice-
president; John Anderson, of N. C. State,
treasurer; and Miss Dorothy Siewers, of
Salem College, secretary.

The convention was addressed Thursday
evening by Mr. William K. Hoyt, business
manager of the Winston-Salem Journal, who
ispoke on the history and progress of the
press in North Carolina, and also gave a
number of ideas very valuable to the mem-
bers of the association. The convention was
formally opened on Friday morning by the
president, E. G. Moore, of N. C. State Col-
lege, which was followed by the invocation

(Continued on page 6)

as Haworth,

|
| oo
|

at Guilford Meeting

“Y”’ Conference to
Be At Blue Ridge
Beginning June 17

The annual Y. M. C. A. conference of
college students will be held at Blue Ridge,
|N. C., trom June 15 to June 24. About 600
{young men from colleges and universities all
over the South will be present to hear a ‘most
notable group of speakers.

| Talks will be made by the following men
Ne the problems that confront the student of
today: G. Sherwood Eddy, world traveler
and scholar; J. Stitt Wilson, noted
ologist, well known to Davidson men; W. D.
Weatherford, president of the Blue Ridge
Association; Dean W. Graham;
Mordecai W. Johnson, an expert on the racial
problem, and many other great speakers.

Blue Ridge, in the prettiest of the North
Carolina mountains, is admirably equipped in
every particular, Facilities are provided for
every sport, and the proximity of many of
the famous beauty spots of the state furnishes
excellent opportunity for hikes. The build-
ings are large and spacious and almost lux-
uriously furnished.

During the ten days, the mornings will,
-for the most part, be occupied with study
in large and small groups, with a sufficient
amount of individual instruction. The aft-
ernoor will be passed in sports and recrea-
tion of various kinds,

This follows the Young People’s Confer-
ence here, and those attending here can go
directly to Blue Ridge. The Y. M. C, A.
pays the railroad fare of the first ten men
signing up.

The conference is an annual affair and is
attended by delegates from all of the leading
colleges and universities of the South. The
grounds are owned and controlled by the
national Y. M. C. A. and*represent a large
investment. A number of other conferences
are held there each summer during June and
July. ,

Last summer over 350 Southern students,
(Continued on page 6)

soci-

Thomas

Dr. Daniels, Noted Humorist, Speak

Friday Night On “The Looking Glass”

Dr. D. W. Daniels, of Clemson College,
one of the most noted speakers in the South,

gave a highly humorous and entertaining ad-
dress on “The Looking Glass,” in Shearer
Hall last Friday night. Dr. Daniels could
be called the leading humorist of the South,
and in his speecd he duly upheld this title.
For a number of years he was engaged on a
well-known lyceum circuit and was heard
throughout the United States, being greatly
in demand.

Dr. Daniels’ speech has been described as
the best thing that ever hit Davidson. Dr.
J. W. McConnell introduced the speaker in
short order and stated that he was afraid to
make a joke of the occasion because he knew
that Dr. Daniels was too able to turn the
tables on him, this having been done the
night before in Charlotte. He was unable to
stem the tide, however, and was made the
butt of one of his jokes as the opening num-
ber. Dr. Daniels kept the audience in an
uproar for the first 20 minutes, cracking one
joke after another until his hearers ached
with laughter. He then turned to his real
subject, “The Looking Glass.”

The looking glass«he said, is one of the
most peculiar of all objects. In it we see
a complete reflection of ourselves but with-
out depth. It is only an outward view, and
one which means little to our lives.
should seek to see deeper into the looking
glass and to find.the real virtues of life.
Beauty of body is one thing that is shown by
the looking glass, but beauty of soul and

We

mind is hidden fronvit’s vision, but the latter
is the most desirable of the two qualities.
Outward ugliness may contain a heart of
gold. 6

Unselfishness is another quality which is
beyond the depth of the looking glass and is
one of the most desirable of all qualities.
Love likewise is an inanimate quality which
is unscen by the mirror. Both of these are
among the most vital and necessary of human
qualities which are required of the successful
man. :

The last and most vital of all qualities
which is hidden from the looking glass is a
man’s religious convictions. These contain
the whole man. If we were able to see these
in the mirror how ashamed seme of us world
be of our image. We should strive to make
our inner image as desirable as our outward
one.

Dr. Daniels is’one of the most versatile of
speakers. His talks are divided into three
main classes: wholly humorous, semi-humor-
ous and entirely serious. His speech last
| Friday feel into the second of these divisions.
| Dr. Daniels has made it+a practice never to
| charge an educational institution, feeling that
the privilege of speaking to the nation’s fu-
ture citizens is enough recompense.
| This was Dr. Daniels’ first appearance at
Davidson, and he has aroused much com-

parison to Stephen Leacock, the noted

ment among the students especially in com-!

Davidson Trackmen Take
Fourth Place in Annual
Meet at State College

Goodykoontz Scores Twelve Points
for Davidson Team

CAROLINA WINS

Jennings Breaks College Record in
Pole Vault Clearing Bar at
Eleven Feet

Both the varsity and freshman tedms won
fourth place for Davidson in the Annual
State Olympic track and field meet held) in
Raleigh on Riddick Field Friday and Satin
day of last week,
and tive freshmen, the Wildcat teams scored
22 points in the varsity and 19 in the fresh-
man meets,

Entering only six varsity

Harry Goodykoonz and Bob Kell continued
their fine showing in the dashes by winning
both the varsity and freshman 440-yard races,
Goodykoontz also placing second in the two-
twenty and third in the hundred, Kell placed
fourth in the two-twenty. |

Hamp Jennings cleared the bar for 11 feet
in the pole vault, ticing for the first place
with a Carolina and State man, and at the
same time breaking the Davidson College
record by one-quarter of an inch,

The other men placing in the varsity meet
yere: Calhoun, B. M., tied for
high jump; R. Calhoun fifth in same event;
Penn, fourth in the two-mile run,

Freshmen placing besides Kell were Flynn,
the dash, third two-
Frye, second indow hurdles, and a

second in

second in century in
twenty ;
tic for filth in the pole vault; [Ely, fifth in
the mile run. The summary follows:

(Continued on page 8)

Setzer of Lenoir-Rhyne
Wins Peace Oratoricals

J. H. Harrell of the University of
’ North Carolina is Winner
of Second Prize

Mr. Roy Setzer, representing —Lenoir-
Rhyne College, was awarded first place in
the Peace Oratorical Contest which was held
in Shearer Hall Monday night. Mr. Setzer’
subject was, “A Little Child Shall Lead
Them.” Second place was given to Mr, J.
H. Harrell, of the University of North
Carolina, whose subject was “The Task of
Modern Society.” Elon College was repre-
sented by Mr. Wayne E. Snow, Wake Forest
by Mr. O: L, Norment, Duke University by
Mr. Linwood B. Hollowell, Guilford College
by Mr. Byron A. Haworth, and Davidson by
Mr. A. H. Hollingsworth.

Preceding the delivery of the
music was rendered by the Symphony Or-
chestra numbers were given
throughout the program. Rev. R. S. Burwell
gave the invocation. Prof. Thomas W.
Lingle, who was the presiding officer, intro-
duced Prof, Elwood C. Perisho, of Guilford
College, who told something of the work of
the Peace Association. He told of the
founding, 21 years ago, at Richmond, Ind.,
and of the meeting held the next year in
Cincinnati. He stated that the organization
was established in North Carolina at State
College during the spring of last year. The
meeting at Davidson was the second that has
been held in this state. Professor Perisho
said that from the associations that were now
established throughout the country, much
interest is being manifested and over’ 150
institutions are now engaged in writing and
discussing the question of Peace. The judges
of the contest were: Mr. L. P. Green
(Princeton), Mr. A. D. “Skelding (Yale),
Mr. J. R. Terrell (The Citadel), all being
from Charlotte.

Mr. Snow, who was the first speaker, chose
as his subject “Peace Rather Than War.”

orations,

and several

English humorist who was here last year.| He developed his oration in a very forcible
The comparison has been favorable in all! manner, pleading, all the while, for “onej questions in which the Church should take |

particulars.

(Continued on page 6)

Baseball Team Splits Series of Four
Games on North Carolina-Virginia Trip

Guilford Wins From Wildcats in
Hectic Game

Debators Lose to

Universit J || —
a of the ! ROANOKE DEFEATED

South at Sewanee ses

| Laird Wins Over V. M. I. 7-5—

W. and L. Wins by Lopsided
Score of 11-2

In a torenste contest, which Sewanee stu-|
dents and officials declared to be the closest
that ———
held in the Sewanee Union in many years, a] The Davidson baseball team returned Mon-
Davidson team, composed of Harllee Branch, | day afternoon from a trip through Virginia.
Jr. and Don Wharton, were defeated in a! On this trip they won games from V. M. T.
two-to-one decision hy a Sewanee team, com. | and Roanoke College and dropped contests to

and most interesting debate has been

. new plan.

‘to repeal the law concerning Japanese immi-

Teague and MeBlane. The two
teams spoke before one of the largest audi-
ences that has gathered to hear a debate at
Sewanee and the audience was
especially attentive to and appreciative of
the efforts of the various speakers.

posed ot

this year,

The question discussed
That the United
Department of National Defense, headed by
a Seeretary of National Defense, with sub-
seeretaries of Army, Navy, and Air.” The
Sewanee team preserved its enviable record

was, “Resolved, |

States should institute a

ot success, and still remains undefeated.

McBlane, speaking first for the Sewanee
team, clearly outlined the various issues in-
volved, and explained the contentions that
were to be made by the proponents of the
He vehemently opposed the pres-
ent system, and offered numerous arguments
to prove that the existing syStem of national
defense was replete with evils, and sadly in
need of progress and development. He was
followed by his colleague, Teague, who con-
tinned the affirmative’s attack on the present
system, and also outlined the advantages to
be secured under a change of policy.

Don Wharton spoke first for Davidson, and
his arguments were clear and well delivered.
He argued for the present system, and offer-
ed numerous facts to prove that the existing
plan was such as to efficiently care for ex-
pansion, development, co-ordination, and im-
provements. Branch, who followed Whar-
ton, centered his attack on the proposed plan,

and devoted the greater part of his main

(Continued on page 5)

Washington and Lee and Guilford.

The first game was played at Winston-
Salem against Guilford. The game was slow
with few features, Rabb, pitching for Guil-
ford, holding the Wildcats in) check all
through the game ‘nd neither of the two
runs secured by Davidson were earned.

Huie started in the box for Davidson, and
except for the first inning, was hit hard by
the Quakers. He was relieved by Oden in

the seventh, who held the Guilford team
scoreless the rest of the"tame.
DAVIDSON. ABR TT OA
W'dham, 1b SW ee) (0)
J. G’gley, ss al eh W)
Wael, era Qealsealieel
Laird, rf-3b st) Whe al
Dulin, 3b — is AWW 2
BINGK: Cou cvougnes we h(n) (0) (0) (0)
GON iriticcccevese aa tee te Ne Ae)
Alitotlmilieosccccucs sere vene Ge Ole 00)
Johnson, ef ys BAS ent ell)
GIdineeltecsee es S23 35 Oneal
ict, (olliqhay ee aoe on Se Ee) () 10)
Huie, p -- 8 () fayoalc!
Oden, p 00.0 0 0
Davis 100 0 0
Oth Sesseeteen usenet See 35 2 624 9
GUILFORD. ABR HOA
(CUTKitt, Ol eee eee een ey aon Zea FET |)
Nyesinitteweh-sswsces.scsesee Cs aay Ate eel)
INGA init ee onee sooner Si 2) Gi 0).0
bei, @ ke eae eee Bh () 212 (t)
eiidlOVielbieceeec enue esos CA eee eV AW)
Enelish, ss 2D (vy (oy 3b tl

(Continued on page 8)

Judge Currie Speaks On Present Day
Evils of the Church at “Y” Service

Judge Currie, of Charlotte, gave an inter-|

esting and inspiring address before the Y. M.
C. A. last Sunday night on the evils existing
in the Protestant Church today. Only about
150 boys were in attendance. Aside from
the regular address the quartet sang a very
beautiful Dr. McConnell intro-
duced the speaker.

In opening his talk Judge Currie stated that
most speakers at the Y. M. C. A. talked about
the religious side of the Church, but that he
wished to tell a few of the evils that existed
in the Church today in order that his hearers
might be better able to carry on the work of
the Church in after years.

selection.

The Church is a religious and not a
political organization, he said. In the olden
. f
times, government was controlled by the

Church as in the case of the Roman Catholic
and Established English Churches. This
control he stated has been greatly decreased
during the past century but the Protestant
Church has now taken up the practice of in-
dulging in political issues. i

As an example of the above fact he gave a
brief outline of the report of the Federal
Council. of Churches in/ America. In. this’
report the council stated the ofjject of its
work, The main object was to bring the
United States into the World Court, which
he stated was a purely political question.
Two other objects were to outlaw war and

gration. These also are entirely political |

no active part.

‘carried throughout the world.

In further proving his statements Judge
Currie gave a report of the Methodist Fed-
eration for the past year. This organization
is entirely supported by the Chureh and is a
complete political organization. It maintains
a large office building as its headquarters in
Washington, just from the capitol
building.
lobbyist in the halls of Congress and more-

across
The organization has an active
over maintains a private detecive agency to
aid the government in law enforcement, The
main object of its work is the maintenance
of the Volstead Act.

Money is donated by the Church for reli-
gious work in order that the Gospel may be
Political work
is not in line with this object and the princi-
ples of the Church as outlined in the Bible.
As soon as any church begins to engage in
political work they begin to forget their main
work. The Roman Catholic Church a
glaring example of this fact.

In closing the speaker urged his hearers to

1s

, consider this problem and whenever they be-

came actively engaged in church work to
oppose any political efforts which the church
might make.

Judge Currie is the newly appointed city
judge of Charlotte. He was formerly city
clerk and has been actively engaged in law
during the past few years in Charlotte. He
is a/brother of John Currie, the phenomenal
track star who was forced to Jeave school in
February.

Only two more regular “Y” services re-

(Continued on page 3)
