THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
With Withers

Two in a Row

Today’s Game

Last Two Games
Memories of Two Years
Duke Freshman Team

When Davidson lost to Hampden-Sidney
last Saturday, one record, at least, was
broken. It has been many years since the
Wildcats dropped two games in two weeks.
But the last two contests with Virginia
teams have been extremely hard ones and
with the big game of the year on tap for

Younger and Tilson: in Fourth Su

today with Carolina, it is easy to forget those
out-of-state defeats and hope for a victory |
this’ afternoon. a |

CRSA |
The Tigers of Death Valley, as the stal- |

wart players of Hampden-Sidney are called, |
proved too much for Davidson. Only once
during the contest did the Wildcats seriously |
threaten to score. Toward the end of the |
game, by means of several good runs and |
two beautifully executed passes, Davidson |
had the ball on the visitors’ one-yard line, but |
confused signals accounted for a loose ball |
and cut the chance of scoring short. In the |
last play of the game Bohannon caught a}
pass for a gain of 40 yards, but to no avail. |

Startling even its most ardent supporters
in its, walking away over V. M. I. Saturday,
the North Carolina Tar Heels boosted their |
chances of a victory over Davidson today and |
greatly enhanced their championship possi- |
bilities. The Tar Heels enter the game to-|
day favorites over the Wildcats, in the main
on account of the slaughter of a team that |
had just a week before that beat Davidson |
12 to 7. The climb of the University team |
since the first game of the season has been
nothing short of miraculous. Losing to
Wake Forest and Tennessee, they encounted
South Carolina, doped to lose by at least two
touchdowns, but managed to send the Game- |
cogks back home to roost with the short end |
of a 7 to 0 score.

Ever since the South Carolina game the
Tar Heels have been showing improvement
with a 28. to 0 decision over V. M. I. to cap
their season so far. On the other hand Da-
vidsoh won the first five games on her card,
tied Wake, Forest and lost the last two to
V. M. I and Hampden-Sidney. It was in a
few minutes of the Deacon game that David-
son showed her best form. During the first
half of that game is the only time that the
Wildcats have really played football, so by
the law of averages, by the spirit of tradi-
tion, and to avenge defeats of former years,
the Wildcats are scheduled to play the best*
ball of the season today against North
Carolina,

Two years ago, these two ancient foes bat-
tled for three and nearly four long periods
without a score-on Richardson field, playing
before, the largest crowd to ever see a foot-
ball game in the western part of the state.
Carolina had marched to Davidson’s goal-
line early in the contest only to be held for
downs and the fray waged hotter and hotter
until it seemed that it would be a no decision
affair. But in the last two minutes of play
the Tar Heels star drop kicker, Hackney,
was rushed into the game to boot two goals
through Davidson’s uprights for a 6 point
victory. f

Last fall, at Chapel Hill, Davidson had |
the edge through the game as far as ground
gaining was concerned, but Carolina pushed
across a brace of touchdowns and one extra
point. In this game Davidson made 13 first
downs and Carolina only 9, and the Wildcats
gained 415 yards to the Tar Heels’ 224. But
Carolina won!

The State championship hangs somewhat
on the outcome of today’s battle. The losing
team is definitely out of the race, while the
winner can claim honors with Wake Forest
provided the Deacons win from State and
Davidson beats Duke Thanksgiving Day.
All advance notices favor thé Deacons and
the Wildcats in these last named games.
Anything might happen, for State surely
upset all calculations last fall when it bopped
Wake Forest 6 to 0.

The Freshman team sent to Davidson by
Duke University last Friday was one of the
best seen in these parts recently. It had
been generally conceded that the Davidson
yearlings had a strong outfit and that the
contest would be close, but Coach Mattox’s
charges didn’t stand a show. Presenting the

"best passing attack seen at Davidson this fall,

rings around the ‘local

William Lee Younger for the Last Four

Years Head coach at Davidson

Freshmen to Meet
State Yearlings

The Freshmen are going up against a
strong team when they tackle the undefeated
Freshman eleven from Staté College on the
latter’s home ground. This is the second
game of the season for the Freshmen among
the State yearling teams and the outcome of
it is going to be determined largely by the
way in which the Wildkittens fight. ;

The State freshmen have fought both the
first year teams from Wake Forest and Duke
to a scoreless tie. And they also handed the
Baby Tar Heels a taste of defeat last Sat-
urday when they trounced them to the tune
of 14-6. So it looks as if they have headed
straight for the championship if we don’t
stop them Saturday.

Although we tried to change the date of
the game so as not to conflict with Home-
Coming Day, we were unable to do so as
State has all other dates filled.

The probable line-up will be as follows:

Davidson. Pos. State
Peterson’ oo.cecese RE oes Fenner
McConnell ~------ RY solos e 28 Koening
DeCamp ---------. RG Posse ose Wolf
DeArmon ---.-- Centeroo2 ee B. Jackson
iinitvsecceescoueke EG s ose sae Ruth
Garsonicecauacswas | El gene ones kt Evans
Hampton --------- ) LI Dipee pies ae eee Snider
Hammitt’ --------- OB ice Whisnant
Mathews --------- 152 os ERR eA ev Ward
Goodman -.--.---. 10] 3 eer ane A Maus
Brohard ~..<------ AB cous eee Bullard
CAROLINA GAME

(Continued from page 1)

The next event of the day will be at 2:30,
when Davidson and Carolina clash on Rich-
ardson: Field in a game having much to do
with deciding the state championship. All
past performances of both teams, point
toward a battle with a close decision as a
result. Davidson has not met defeat at the
hands of any state team to date, while Caro-
lina has been defeated by Wake Forest. Da-
vidson and Wake Forest played a 3-3 tie sev-
eral weeks ago. By a comparison of the
scores of former years, it is seen that the
University has a decided edge on Davidson
in the scoring line, but notwithstanding that,
the game played on Richardson Field today
will no doubt be close.

As a conclusion to the program of the day,
Stunt Night will be observed in Shearer Hall
when classes vie with each other in the pre-
sentation of clever stunts, followed by per-
formances by the Glee Club, the Mandolin
Club, the Red and Black Masquers. Pro-
ceeds from this entertainment will go to the
Glee Club.

Many of the classes of previous years are
planning reunions and with this as an impetus
together ‘with the football game, a record
crowd is expected. o

°
,
“

Both Coaches Came to Davidson
From V. P. I.

“MONK” AND “TEX”

Basketball, Baseball and Track
| Younger Makes Letters in Football,
While a Wildcat

Some four years ago this past September,
| when a stalwart athlete, an alumnus of Da-
| vidson, came back to his alma mater, playing
| the role of head coach in the three major
| sports, even the most ardent supporter of
| “Monk” Younger did not prophecy the suc-
| cess he has attained. Younger came to Da-
| vidson after a period of several successful
| years’ coaching at V. P. I.
| Here at-Virginia Tech he helped develop
|the man who is now his assistant, Tex Til-
|son. Tilson was one of the greatest linemen

. | yet produced at the Virginia school and dur-

ing his collegiate days was chosen several
times as all-state and all-south Atlantic
tackle.

| William Lee Younger, a native of Lynch-
burg, Va., first came to the Davidson campus
in 1916 and Here as a Freshman made a var-
| sity “D” in football, basketball, baseball and
i|track, Although just a year out of prep
school, he received numerous mentions for
an all-state berth as an end, This was dur-
ing the regime of Bill Fetzer as head mentor
for Davidson and the gridiron was literally
nothing more than a pasture, for it was not
until recent years that Richardson Field was
built.

After such a successful year at Davidson,
this four-letter man went to V. P. I. and at
Tech he gained recognition during the first

fall there in football. At the close of the
season he was elected captain of the ‘“Gob-
blers” for the 1918 season. Although he did
not aspire for the track team, he won letters
in basketball and baseball. The next year
found Younger in Europe as a soldier in the
United States army. The high esteem in
which Davidson’s coach was held by his
teammates was further shown by their re-
fusal to elect another man captain, and
Younger, in France, served as captain of the
team.

At the close of the war, “Monk” went to
Hampden-Sidney as an assistant coach and
then to V. P. I., where he served until the
fall of 1923, when he came to Davidson as
director of athletics. While at the Virginia
school, he was coached by Branch Bocock,
now head mentor at South Carolina, and
Charlie Bernier, whose Hampden-Sidney
Tigers soundly drubbed the Wildcats last
Saturday.

Younger has always been revered by Da-
vidson as one of their best athletes and stel-
lar coach. As a further demonstration of
the esteem in which he was held by the
students, the class of 1926 dedicated their
issue of Quips and Cranks to

“COACH WILLIM LEE YOUNGER,

who came to us in the full strength of his
virile manhood and engendered in us ideals
worthy of every son of old Davidson—
Coach ‘Monk’—a gentleman, a friend, and a
‘Fighting Wildcat.’”

Probably only a few of Davidson stu-
dents know the full name of Younger’s as-
sistant coach, Sumner Dewey Tilson. Just
where the “Tex” comes in (from the name
anyway) is a mystery to many. But, at least
we do know that “Tex,” or Sumner Dewey,
Tilosn started playing football at V. P. I:
in the fall of 1918 and. played there every
fall through 1922, a total of five seasons.
This rangy lineman captained the team in
1921, but returned to help out his team the
next fall. Tilson was on the track squad,
jand here gained valuable information, al-
though he failed to make a letter in the
sport. As Younger, he was coached by
Bernier for one year at V. P. I. ©

Since coming to Davidson with his former
coach in 1923 Tilson has had charge of \the
Wildcat line and in 1924 aided in basketball.
bla the last two years he has had complete
‘charge of the cinder path stars.’ In. this
| short time he has brought Davidson from
practically insignificance as far as track is
concerned to a level of many conference
teams, : :
| When. interviewed by ai member of The

ccessful
Year as Head Athletic Mentors of Davenpor

Sumner Dewey Tilson, Assistant Coach

of the Davidson Wildcats

Wildkittens Lose

to Duke Freshmen

The Wildkittens were given a decisive
trouncing by the Duke University Imps, Fri-
day afternoon on Richardson Field, by a
26-0 score. The Duke yearlings had their
aerial attack working.smoothly and mix
forward passes wit substantial gains
through the line to pile up 26 points in the
first half.

The Davidson Freshmen took a decided
brace in the second half and prevented the
visitors from scoring; however, the play
throughout the entire game was largely in
the Davidson territory.

Warren, playing left end for Duke, scored
two touchdowns from passes, while Jan-
kosky and Farley scored the others, after
passes had put the ball in scoring position.

The play of Jankosky and Farley featured
the Duke attack, while Hunt and Hampton
stood out in the play of the Davidson team.

Duke Fresh. Pos. Davidson Fresh.
Warren: 22255022 3. | b] Dyer Hampton
WitiVecsiscccccces J Cy Pee eae ea Carson
ROWevecscsesueuse BGxesco eee Hunt
mlitle ss Hav SSeS Gentefesces2e Dermon
Mhornt. secs esse se AR Ge rs Decamp
Kistler (c) ~------- Reese McConnell
Peelet 2255. oeucces RE soos es wes Peterson
Wakes eG aes (0} 3} ie Hammitt (c)
Bilétse2 soso oe ] O} g Beer nigra Matthews
Holey soe ose ee RE eee 2 eas Goodman
Jankosky ~------.. ) 5) apace sa Brohard
Duke Fresh ~--.---------. 719 0 0—26
Davidson Fresh ~-_------. 000 00

Scoring for Duke: Touchdowns, Farley,
Jankosky, Warren (2); extra point from
placement, Buie (2). Officials:
Kirkpatrick (N. C. State); umpire, Frew

| oflState’s beating Wake Forest.
| victory would place the issue wholly between

Ref eree;}

(Washington and Lee); head linesman,
Brice (Auburn). }

|

Davidsonian staff, the first of the week, the|
coaches stated that they had not taken any
action whatsoever in regard to a new con- |
tract with the Athletic Council as to whether |
they would be back at Davidson next year. |
Both contracts expire the coming ‘spring.

Union

of the New

Introducing to the readers of

Rev. Eugene C. Caldwell, D. D, LL. D., Pro-
fessor of Biblical Literature and the Interpretation

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY f

Saturday’s Games Have
Little Bearing on Race

Carolina Favored to Down Davidson
in Championship Battle Here

Today

The games which the various football
teams of the state played last Saturday had
very little direct bearing on the standings of
these teams in the race for the state title.
On account of their victory over both Caro-
lina and Duke, neither of which Davidson has
played, Wake Forest probably has a slight
edge on Davidson in the very close struggle
for gridiron honors of the state. Fans are
looking to the Davidson-Carolina game Sat-
urday as one of the biggest factors in deter-
mining the outcome. of the race.

Carolina, after a continual improvement
since their game with Wake Forest, defeated
V. M. I. Saturday by a big score. Taken in
connection with the score which V. M. I.

| made against Davidson, this has caused Caro-
| lina’s stock to take a big jump. It has been
| shown in the past, however, that no very safe
| predictions, on the basis of past games, can
| be made concerning any Davidson-Carolina
| game.

Should .Davidson be victorious Sat-
urday, her sole chance for a clear title to the
championship would be in the slim possibility
Davidson’s

her and the Deacons. A victory for Carolina
Saturday would complicate the question of
selecting the best team even more than it is
already complicated and would put matters
into exactly the same muddle that they were
in last year.

Both State and Duke, each having lost two
games in the state, are virtually eliminated
from the race. Owing to the fact, however,
that Davidson is yet to play Duke and that
the Deacons still have to face State, both of
these teams still remain elements which
throw some doubt into the final outcome of
the struggle.

OUGHS

Every few hours swallow
slowly small pieces of
Vicks the size of a pea.
Melt a little in a spoon
and inhale the vapors.

ICKS

VarpoRus

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

PEPPERMINT
FLAVOR

A lasting treat
and good for
teeth, appetite,
and digestion.

Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA &R

The Davidsonian

Testament in

