en *

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

Junior Class Minstrel
is Progressing Rapidly

Class of 1928 to Give Negro
Performance December 20

A committee composed of Bud Guthrey,
R. S. Link, Tyree Dillard and “Mutt” Stig-
ler have practically completed their plans
for the Junior Minstrel to be held the night
of December 20th. Regular practices for
the performance will begin Thursday night.
Reports from this committee indicate a thor-
oughly enjoyable and delightful program will
be presented. .

A number of new attractions will be in |
evidence when the minstrel is presented with
its complete cast. Tyree Dillard will be the |
interlocutor and the new quartet has been |
practicing faithfully, a Hebrew character
skit will be presented and several other fea-
tures of similar magnitude. Ed Wilson, the
premier soloist of the Glee Club, will also
give several selections, accompanied by H. R.
Mobley.

Reserved seats will be on sale some time
the latter part oft next week. It is practi-
cally certain that there will be no “rush”
seats whatsoever sold for the evening  per-
formance.

The proceeds from this entertainment will
go to the fund to help defray the expenses
of Junier Week, which will be held the latter
part of April. It has been the usual custom
of Junior classes to sponsor a lyceum pro-
gram during the year, but the class of 1928
decided that it would raise its money from
other sources. Several girls’ glee clubs have
been secured for engagements after the holi-
days to aid in replenishing the coffers of the
Junior class.

DAVIS-LYNCH

At Wake Forest. N. C., on December 2nd,
Samuel Mosely Davis, of the class of 1918,
was married to Miss Grace Lynch. While
at Davidson, Sam was a strong man in the
line of a most notable football! team, won |
his “D” several years in successicn, and was |
president of the
year 1917-18. Sam was a member ci the
Kappa Sigma: fraternity. Now he Mr.
Davis, a prominent young business man of |
Mt. Olive, N. C.

Mrs. Davis (a cousin of Professor Lingle,
of the Davidson faculty) is a daughter oi
Rey. Dr. James W. Lynch, of the Depart- |
ment of Bible at Wake Forest College. She |
was educated at the Woman's College of
Kentucky, in Danville, and at the University |
of Georgia.

student body during the

1s

The Davidsonian extends greet -
ings and best wishes to our former student
body president and his accomplished bride,

Queens Glee Club Gives

Pleasing Program Here

Pleasing Program of Chorus and
Orchestra Well Received by
Davidson Audience

The Queens College Choral Club, being’

DAVIDSON
FIVE YEARS AGO

Entailing a loss of over $250,000 and an
inestimable loss in subjective valuation of one
of the South's most historic college buildings,
Davidson College was deprived of the old |
Chambers Monday |
As the fire was dying down a

building by fire early
morning.
bugle sounded assembly, and the students,
coming from all directions, some clad only
in pajamas and bath robes, lined up in a
body. Dr. W. J. Martin made a ringing ad-
dress, declaring that the spirit which had |
made Davidson one of the strongest colleges |
of the South would assert itself in the midst}
of the catastrophe and that an even greater |
Davidson would arise from the ashes of old ,
Chambers.

At the annual meeting of the Alumni As-
sociation of Charlotte, held last Friday night,
a movement was launched for the organiza-
tion of a general alumni association having
as its purpose the promotion of athletics at
Dr. W. J. Martin spoke on “The
Relation of the Alumni to the College.” Dr.
Martin’s address was short
speeches from members of the faculty and
prominent alumni, who gave expressions of

Davidson.

followed by

loyalty to Davidson and an increasing need
for better co-operation among the alumni in
more athletics, better
and inereased endowment for the institution.

securing equipment,

It has been only five years to the day
since the stately walls of Old Chambers
were wrecked by a fire on Monday morn-
ing The
burning of this, one of the South’s most

shortly before five o'clock,
historic college buildings, a money loss
of over $250,000 was by the,
students, faculty and alumni of Davidson
College.

As the fire was dying away a bugle

sustained

sounded assembly and the students com-
ing from every direction, some clad only
in pajamas and bath robes lined up fn a
body. In a ringing address Dr. Martin
that the would not
interfere with college work after Mon-
day. He inspired the students with a
new spirit which enabled them to “carry
on” in the midst of disappointment and

stated catastrophe

sorrow.
At 0:30 Dr. Martin called a faculty
meeting and at 10:30 the students as-

sembled at Shearer Hall for the purpose
of meeting the matter squarely and of
making definite arrangements for the
lrousing of the unfortunates.

After Dr. Martin’s address the students |
stood and with heads sang “O}|
Davidson” as an indication of their fervid
college spirit and loyalty.

bared

At various times during Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday peace con-
ferences were held at the boarding

houses, and delegates representing Da-
College «ot their share of the
victuals. When they adjourned yells
were-given for the landladies in a feeble
them
tion for making suh a delicious dinner

vidson

endovor to show their apprecia-

presented in concert in Shearer Hall,| possible.

Tuesday evening, November 23rd, was A compact was made between Prof,
enthusiastically applauded, time after A, Currie and Dr. Wilson MacCoCnnell
time. Under the direction of Miss Eliza- by which they agreed to lay aside their
beth Starr and accompanied by Miss volumes?of Blackstone and_ their -axes,
Mary Emma Frazer, the choruses as saws, pills and iodine and “A-Hunting
well as the individual numbers were well | go.”

chosen as well as splendidly given.
Misses Lynn, Noel Walker,

and Annie Mae Pritchette were encored

heartily, being called back several times.

Rebecca

Althought the day’s hunt was rather
unsuccessful in a way, they saw three
deer, but curses, the deer saw them first
and sped away with the fleetness of the

Miss Walker was very clever in her read- wind.
ings as were Misses Lynn and _ Prit- ee
chette in their popular songs. At 7 o'clock sharp .on, Thanksgiving

“The Friskies,” composing the jazz or-
chestra were warmly received and called
back time and again Especially were
the numbers with singing parts good.

The vocal solos given by Misses Emily
Sifford, Rosalie Wooten, and Zelma At-
well were very prettily and artistically
given. “Maidens, Remember,” “A Bird
in Hand,” “A Flowery Courtship,” and
“First Meeting” were well rendered by
Misses Joyner, Atwell, Sifford, Wooten,
Johnston, Blythe, Nance, Steele, Damer-
on, Huneycutt,* Beatty, Ford, Pritchette,
Moore, Walker, and Frazer.

The well-trained chorus was good in
the presentation of “May the Maiden”—
Faust Ballet and “The Walnut Tree,” by |
Schumann. The closing number was a}
group of popular songs, concluded by)
“O! Davidson.” Miss Frazer’s accom-|
paniments were very pleasing in all the|
numbers, :

The management of the Davidson Glee |

morn the student body of Davidson Col-
lege was awakened by the ringing of a
bell, indicating that it was high time to
arise and prepare to make the trip to
Greenville :for the Furman game, via’ the |
the special train .

Stops were made at different points
along the way for the purpose of taking
on It
for the special to wait quite a while in
cheer leader
mounted the engine and led the
dents in “three Hi’s”* for Spartanburg.
After the yelling came the singing of
“O Davidson.”

When the train arrived at Greenville a
rush was made to get tickets for the
game and then a search was made to fill |
“the aching void.”

more passengers. was necessary

Spartanburg, so Story

stu-

|to fight for the South and her cause.

‘Alumni Meets After
_ Lengthy Separation

A very unusual thing happened on the

streets of Fayetteville this morning, when

{two prominent men met for the first time

since they parted on the battlefield in -865.
Mr. Charles Glover, of this city, while
walking up the street met and recognized
Mr. Dan Burrell, of Charlotte, whom he
had not seen since the close of the Civil War.

Mr. Glover and Mr. Burrell were both ar-
tending Davidson College in 1861 and at the
outbreak of the Civil War they left school
They
parted in 1865 and never saw’ each other
again until this morning. Another remark-
able thing is that only last night The Da-
vidson alumni formed an association in this
city, to which Mr. Glover belongs, in fact,
he is the senior member of the alumni.

It is needless to say that Mr. Glover and
Mr. Burrell spent some time this morning
talking over old times.”—Fayetteville Ob-
server.

Westbrook — “Actions
than words.”

speak

She—"Yes, and so does static.”

FORENSIC PROGRAM
|

H

(Continued from page 1)

Emory and V. P. I.; W. H. Branch, de- |

Dec. 13—George Washington Univer-
sity at Davidson.

Spring—University of the South (Se-
wanee) at Davidson.

Spring—William and Mary at Williams-

louder

bated against Sewanee; T. G. McCutchen,

i burg, Va.
debated against Presbyterian

College ; | Spring—Gettysburg at Gettysburg, Pa.

Henry Powell, debated against Univer- Spring—Rutgers University at New
sity of Pittsburgh; and L. D, Wharton,) Brunswick, N. Te

Jr., debated against Wake Forest and Spring—Emory University at Davidson.
Sewanee. There are also a number of Spring—Duke University at Davidson.
men who have made freshman intercol- soi reuse ean

legiate teams who can be counted on to Nicholas—"Dear, let’s set our wedding

give these men opposition in the tryouts. date for next Friday.”

She—"Oh, we can't.
‘that night.”

The following is the complete schedule :
Dec. 10—V. P. 1.

I have a date for
at Blacksburg, Va.

—

(femet

WHEN IN STATESVILLE

CALL ON US FOR YOUR
BARBER SHOP WANTS

Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N, C.

Men are no longer —
on the fence

Kj

The return trip—begun at 9 bells—was | °

rather uneventful, most of the boys!
choosing to get in a little shut-eye. and)
soon all were back at the starting point. |

~

Natural tobacco taste—
that settles it!

HE huge popularity of Chesterfield s2ows

clearly that what men want — tohacco
character, natural good taste —they fre finding
‘n Chesterfield, and in Cresterfield alone.

For, in Chesterfeld the world’s finest to-
baccos are exactly matched to bring cut natural
tobacco goodness. And to this method, the
oldest and surest known to tobacco men,
Chesterfield owes its taste and its ever in-
creasing popularity.

Club, under whose auspices the concert|Our team had been defeated, but those |
was presented, expressed satisfaction at| who saw the fight had only higher re-| Liocerr & Mrers Tosacco Co.
the evening’s receipts. | gard for the fighting Wildcats. . ae

