4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926 .

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15 _
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

the Second Class
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE. BRANCH, JR..... _-aoz-.-Fditor-in-Chief

VERNON S. BROYLES................--.. Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF ;

WL DAN GL Ts vcccs die scatosececqanepeeesene MOORE molter

BOYCE MARTIN.. .--Assistant Managing Editor
Ly iE IIs bn nes sendsdecevusnduncssvaceny Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB... .-Associate Editor

H. L. SHELBY...- .-..-Alumni Editor

D. M. CALHOUN.....-- --Exchange Editor

H, l, SHELBY... _Humorous Editor

D, M. CALHOUN......... _...-Alumni «Editor

W Bi ( GURION ba sennw eens .-Assignment Editor

Bi ET inhbedeceaseds sivieakee Feature Editor

DoD, OM eh cckinvsevaxnnencaaveusbuseeie Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF '

EB I DOWGUA SE. once cnndse ces Assistant Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD._- .-Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE.....-. .Assistant Business Manager
5 Ai PO AIILIN DD tote au sdkanascdbasinsee Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT... ....-Circulation Manager

R. 8, ABERNETHY... .226.5.-04-0.<0,-0--5--0.8ervice Manager

Reporters’ Club

Cc. C. MURCHISON Cc. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS JOHN GWIN

JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE

qd. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT

L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW

TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

B. F, MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

SAME .OLD GAG

The perennial attack on football by those
who view with alarm its growing popularity
has been reopened this year by Alfred
Dashiell, who, like his predecessors, de-
nounces football as a distraction and an ex-
pensive parasite, living off the budgets of
American colleges. We are not surprised at
Mr. Dashiell’s attitude—there are thousands
who will agree with him—but we do believe
that he has exaggerated the menace of the
sport.

Writing in the November Forum, Mr.
Dashiell declares that “football has become
a religious cult, building stadiums instead of
cathedrals., Its moral and intellectual bene-
fits are absurdly exaggerated. It is so ex-
pensive that educational budgets suffer.
There is nothing Greek about football. It
is a barbaric Roman spectacle for a de-
generate Roman mob,”

This bold statement smacks only slightly
of the truth. It is one of these clever ma-
nipulations of words and phrases that lead
inevitably to a false conclusion. One so
wise,as Mr. Dashiell must have smiled to
himself as he compared football, a Saturday
afternoon sport, for undergraduates, with
a religious cult. His analogy is amusing in
its distortion.

When Mr. Dashiell declares that many
people fear that football will become a new
national religion, and that thinkers abroad
in our land are viewing with alarm the can-
nonization of football heroes, he is guilty of
one of two unexplainable attitudes. Either
he has jokingly decided to jostle the gullible
public, or he is suffering from a fanciful fear
solely of his imagination.

Surely no one believes with him that a
false glamour and sentimentalism surround-
ing football will make of it a Saturday aft-
ernoon ritual! There is even more room for
doubt in Mr. Dashiell’s statement that the
twenty-two clean-living gridiron warriors
do nothing more than afford an opportunity
for childish exhibitions by drunken under-
graduates in the stands. He has inexcusably
mixed causes and effects.

If “drunks” still persist in. crowding the
stands at Saturday afternoon football games
—and our own experience teaches us that
this custom is continually losing its popular-
ity in spite of the growth of football—why
lay the blame on twenty-one clean living
athletes, who are in no way responsible for
such a condition. It is the men who persist
in “childish exhibitions,” which, they should
have discarded at the end of their sopho-
more year, and not the athletes that are re-
sponsible if such a condition exists.

We are prone to accept, moreover, the
opinion of Dean Gauss, of Princeton, who
has said “For my part, I wish we played
‘football every Saturday during the college
year. My job during the football season is
much easier, as far as enforcing discipline in
the university goes, than at any other time.”

Why all this antagonism to the. hero-wor-

_ ship enjoyed by football stars? Hero wor-
ship may be a bad thing, but anyone who has
had even a little experience with the young
of the human species knows that it is uni-

J. R. WEAVER

versal and ineradicable. You must deal
with it whether you like it or not. Why not
make it as useful and helpful as possible?
If a boy has no one else to admire, he will
admire and envy a dead-game gambler quite
as blindly as he will follow a splendid speci-
men of the sound mind in the sound, clean
body.

“One reason why the game has taken such
a hold on the public is its essential atmos-
phere of straightforwardness and down-
rightness, its contempt for chicanery and
fraud,” declares Coach William Roper, in
answering Mr. Dashiell’s article. “I am
firmly of the opinion hat the more we en-
courage athletic competition, the better cit-
izens we make,” he continues, “and often-
times football games are won and lost sim-
ply on a mental difference which more than
offsets physical differences just as great.”

There is no doubt that football has its
faults, but the benefits from the game and
its influence on those who play it far out-
weigh its defects. President Ernest M.
Hopkins, of Dartmouth, has sounded a note
of warning which should carefully be con-
sidered by those who ascribe the evils to
football much greater than really exist and
who seek to eliminate it from our school and
college activities. President Hopkins said,
“It is not surprising in a country where we
strive to make man temperate by legisla-
tion, industrious by court decree, and happy
by political oratory, that we should assume
our ability to make men scholars by denying
them the opportunity for indulging in any
other interest. But arguing from analogy,
we lack certainty that this would be the in-
evitable outcome.”

DUTY—A SUBLIME WORD

It was at a dinner, and Robert E. Lee,
Commander-in-chief of the Confederate
forces had been called upon to speak. The
gray-haired old commander of the vanquish-
ed southern army had risen slowly from his
seat about the table, and had bowed to the
applause of the hundreds of younger men
who were gathered with him in the festive
hall. They’had asked him to tell of his ex-
periences, and he had done so—such tales of
devotion to a cause as none other than the
old commander himself could have narrated.
He was closing his address, and his hearers
were spellbound in their admiration for
him and the sentiments he had expressed.

Turning slowly about so as to look into
the eyes of each of his hearers he made a
statement, the truth of which has come
down to us, each passing year adding color
to his words. “Gentlemen,” he said, “Duty
is the sublimest word in the English lan-
guage.”

How many of us have stopped to think of
the sublimity of the word “Duty,” and of
the sublimity of the sacrifice it connotes?
In these days of hustle and bustle, of ner-
vous flitting to and fro, and of selfishness,
many of us are prone to forget our duty to
our God, our country, our parents, our fel-
lows, and our college.

There is a whole lot more than just living,
there’s a great deal more than just doing
what we have to do to live from day to day.
There’s the folks back home who are count-
ing on big things from us—a mother and a
father who have lived for us, and whose duty
to us has been their only interest. Are we
forgetting them in the midst of the new
life, the new friends, and the new interest
we have found at college? Not a day should
pass but that we should pause to think of
the sacrifices our parents have made for us.
Not a day should pass but that we should do
some little thing to make them happy—and
proud.

Then, there’s the old college—not just an
institutisn where we come to spend a few
years, then to leave and forget forever. It’s
got a/soul—a real soul—and its got feelings,
the same as any one of us. Ofcourse, its
hard to think of the college, with its ramb-
ling buildings and its muddy walks as being
human—but, it is a whole lot so. When we
fail to conduct ourselves in a manner becom-
ing of a son of the college, we hurt it. When
we think only of it as a place where we must

-spend four or five hours in monotonous

study each day, and as nothing more, we do
it a grave injustice. It’s just human enough
to want our love and our service—and it’s
begging us for it. Shall we fail to heed its
call!

There has been too little attention paid of
late to the duty college men owe their God.
There has been too much of a frothy sort of
faith among undergraduates, and too much
of a willingness to desert Him for the un-
tried and unproved ‘gods of fancy. We owe
Him.a real service, if for no other reason
than the fact that He has blessed the college
we attend and the homes from which we
have come. He is a jealous God, and He
‘cannot appreciate the semi-faithfulness that
so many of us are paying Him simply be-
cause of fear or a hope of reward.

7

Who’s Who

at Davidson

LYNN BACHMAN McCLAIN
Sweetwater, Tenn.
President of the Junior Class
Sweetwater,
(the exact location of
which we have failed to
ascertain in spite of aclose
examination of numerous
maps), claims ‘Lynn Mc-
Clain as its son, and basks
in the glory of his achieve-
ments at Davidson. Allof
the inhabitants of Sweet-
water (three hundred more
or less) are still talking of
the fine record that Lynn
has made since he left T.
M. I., where he was a major in the school band,

and entered Davidson.

Tennessee

Last spring. they clipped. the newspaper an-
nouncements of Lynn's election to the presi-
dency of his class at Davidson, and have placed
them prospectus which the Sweetwater
Chamber of Commerce is mailing to outside com-
munities. Lynn he re-
ceives letters from unknown admirers who have
seen these bulletins, and who “just want, to ask
him if he is really from Sweetwater.”

in a

smiles modestly when

Seriously, though, Lynn has overcome the handi-

| cap of being from the metropolis of Sweetwater,

and has gained for, himself a position of leader-
ship and preeminence among his fellow-students.
Recognition of him by the “powers that be” on
the campus dates back to the day, when he was
elected president of the Beaver Club, an honorary
sophomore order; and business manager of the
Glee Club. His election to the latter position
came as a surprise, since none but a senior had
ever won this office. His subsequent and success-
ful management of theyclub on its great swing
through the southeast, however, left no doubts
as to the wisdom of its choice.

Last spring he was chosen to fill the presidency
of the junior class, and as such he is today a
prominent leader in campus activities. He is a
member of the Beta Theta Pi national social fra-
ternity.

HUGH M. ARROWOOD
Shelby, N. C.
Vice-President of the Student Body

Hugh Arrowood, a man
of silence, came down to
Davidson from Shelby, N.
C., and his arrival on the
campus created quite a
furor of excitement, de-
spite his aversion to such
demonstrations. His en-
viable reputation as a high
school athlete had _ pre-
ceded him here, and the
enthusiasm which marked
his arrival was quite to be
expected.

Hugh had little to say concerning his ambitions
or his past performances. He was another Cal
Coolidge, and somehow or other his modesty
added to the admiration that he so quickly won
on the campus. Few weeks had passed before
members of the Class of ’28 began to brag about
the star athlete in their midst, and of the record
he was making on the freshmen football team.
They spoke of Hugh with a feeling of pride and

-of respect.

At the end of his. freshman year, Hugh was
elected to the position of vice-president of his
class, and in that office he served his class well.
Last spring, after a successful season on the var-
sity football team, he won the recognition of the
students as a whole and was elevated to the office
of vice-president of the student body. He is now
enjoying the prestige and honor of that position.

His work on the gridiron and on the baseball
diamond, and his popularity among, his fellows
have brought him recognition and honor. For
two years he has served his class and his college
on the student council, being one of the oldest
men, in point of service, on the governing body
of the college. With all his honors, and all his
achievements he has remained the same genial,
modest fellow that he was pon his entry here
three years ago. He is destined for still another
year of leadership and influence at Davidson. He
is a member of the Delta Theta Chi social fra-
ternity.

Collegiate Chatter

The Inquiring Reporter

Special Delivery ;

A mail delivery system among the students of
N. GC. State College will be installed as soon as
the necessary change in the college budget can
be made to include the purchase of receptacles to
be placed in each dormitory for the mail, accord-
ing to a news item appearing in the Technician.
The installation of this new delivery system was
the solution of the present crowded condition of
the State College Post Office, and followed the
publication of statistics indicating that 650 boys
who stand in line at the post office window wait-
ing for their mail, waste 76,050 hours a school
term.

Greek War Over

Fraternity rushing season at the University of
North Carolina closed last Tuesday night, with
the pledging of a great host of freshmen to the
various chapters on the University campus. The
rushing season ended with the tolling of the bell
in Old South Hall, and marked the end of the
126th rushing season at the state university. As
the bell tolled its last, all conversation between
fraternity men and freshmen was prohibited, and
the bewildered freshmen were left in peace to
make their decisions. The system at Carolina
permits the Dean of the Liberal Arts school to
handle all bids, a notice being sent to each fresh-
man who has been bid by any of the fraternities.
In response to this notice, the freshman goes to the
Dean’s office, and, without interference, compiles
a preferential list of the bids he would like to ac-
cept. His first choice, provided-it is the chapter
which has bid him, becomes the fraternity of his
choice. This system is unique to Carolina, and is
used by no other institution in the state.

What, Women Again?

The desirability of co-education among the
higher institutions of learning was the subject
of a lively debate by the Philo Society at King
College last week, according to the King College
News. After a lengthy and hostile discussion in
which the new system was considered from ev-
ery angle, a decision was awarded to the negative
team which had argued against the admission of
men and women students to the same colleges.

Open-Minded

Students at the University of Minnesota are not

afraid of the winds of fundamentalist doctrine.

' By a three to one vote they demanded that Dr.

Riley, the W. J. Bryan of the Northwest, who was
barred. from the campus by the college president
last winter, be given a hearing by the students
and faculty, ‘The poll, as taken by the Minnesota
Daily, shows the 132 out of 200 disbelieved in
fundamentalism, however.

In the past there has been yery little attention
paid to Intra-Mural athletics, and there has been
much favor shown by the students toward en-
larging this as an established phase in college
life. Do you think that its organization would
prove beneficial to the students?

Heber McIlwaine: .For a college of this size
organized Intra-Mural athletics would be a great
asset. Now it is confined to two inter-class sports,
and one inter-frat sport, and it would be helpful
to enlarge upon it.

W. C. Penn: Intra-Mural sports would be a
fine chance for students not making any varsity
sport to have some outlet for their energy. It
would also create a lot of interest and spirit of
friendly rivalry.

H. B. Arbuckle: The idea doesn’t appeal to me
so much, for if a man really wants to participate
in a sport, the school is small enough that he
would have a chance to stay on a scrub téam
throughout the whole season of the sport. Also,
sports that were not organized would be danger-
ous to an inexperienced man.

Hansel: Tha games that the R. O. T. C. have
sponsored, have added a lot to the feeling held by
a student toward athletics in general. These
have been well supervised, and have given the
men, not out for a sport, a chance to work off
some extra energy.

C. W. Harrison: There is one distinct advan-
tage in Intra-Mural sport because many times, a
man has not been interested in trying out for a
sport, finds that he is able to play the game well,
and eventually makes that particular varsity
squad.

L. D. Wharton: If there were greater facilities
for Intra-Mural sports there would be a greatet
participation by students. I am very much in favor
of inter-class or inter-dormitory games in soccer,
basketball or baseball, and an organized program
that would further this. would be of great benefit
to all that would take part.

Tom Jones: Intra-Mural activities have been
successful at nearly all the schools that have them,
and have done much toward creating better or-
ganization or class spirit. Men who do not make
varsity or scrub squads in major sports feel dis-
couraged to continue, and are in a way robbed
of their right to organized sports.
