THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

DAVIDSON SPONSERS VOTE

ON PROHIBITION QUESTION

Atothe request of the American Federa-
tion of College students, an organization
formed some months ago, for the purpose of
promoting thought and opinion on topics of
world-wide interest) among college students,

The Davidsonian will on Saturday morning |

distribute ballots at the chapel exercises, by
means of which a vote of Davidson students
will be taken on the very lively issue of
prohibition.

Probably there has never) been another |

issue in America quite like the one that is
now attracting attention in all sections of the
country. Certainly there has never been one
that exceeded it in the intensity of feeling that
has animated the two sides of this bitter all-
American controversy. The “Wets” have
had their say, and the prohibitionists have
spoken their minds. There has been no sug-
gestion of compromise, no passing of petty
compliments. It has been a deadly grapple. |
While neutral observers seem willing to agree
that thus far the battle has ended in a draw
the drys say they have proved their case,
while the wets resort that the verdict must
be in their favor. Now the ordinary citizen
and the college student can take his choice.

It is hoped by The Davidsonian that local
students have already familiarized themselves
with this all-important issue, that they have
acquainted themselves with the questions in-”
volved, and that they have already formed
some definite opinion. But, lest the proposed

ballot should be taken lightly and the results |

should fail to truthfully indicate Davidson
sentiment. The Davidsonian offers herewith
the outstanding contentions of the two sides
in the great conflict that is attracting such
world-wide attention.

Contentions of the Wets

Here is what the “wets” started out to
prove, and that they insist, they have estab-
lished to be the facts.

First—Prohibition cannot be enforced
with any degree of success by the Federal
Government, the States or the municipalities.
It would take an army and a vast sum of
money to make it evén reasonably successful.

Second—It has created an army of boot-
leggers, who are now allied with some of
the “best” elements in the electorate.

Third—Instead of decreasing drunkenness,
prohibition has incrased it everywhere in the
nation. It has turned hundreds of thousands
of homes into distilleries and. breweries. It
has bred corruption in both national and state
governments. It has many times increased
the deaths due to alcoholism, has increased

diseases of a social nature, and is corrupting |

the youth, girls as well as boys, of the nation.

Fourth—It has proved to be an unpopular |

as well as unfair law. Under it the rich
maintain well-filled cellars, while the work-
ing classes pay prohibitive prices to bootleg-
gers for poisonous beverages, instead of hav-
ing the opportunity to enjoy a glass of beer
or wine of mild alcoholic content.

Fifth—The prohibition has congested the |

courts to the breaking point, State as well
as Federal tribunals.
than capacity the Federal penitentiaries.

Sixth—It has created a nation-wide disre-
spect for law and order and has made law-
breaking a popular diversion, so far as alco-
holic drinks are concerned.

The Drys Make Answer

These charges the drys sought to-.answer. |

They insist they made their case and that

every accusation, every argument of the op-|

position was met and disproved. The drys
hold that they established the following
points :

First—Prohibition can be enforced. Fed-

eral activities in Cleveland and Chicago are |

proof of this. Enforcement is gaining ef-
fectiveness every day, and in the ordinary
course of events the time must come when
prohibition will cease to be a problem and
will be in force, in fact as well as in thory,
in every State and town in the nation.
Second—The country is indeed over-run
with bootleggers, but they are becoming few-
er and fewer as the result of the warfare

waged by officials in those parts of the coun- |

try where an honest effort is made to enforce
the law.

Third—The assertion that drunkenness has
increased is false and cannot be substantiated
by unchallenged statistics.

more than can murder or burglary.

the extent charged.

Fourth+Prohibition has created millions |

of bank accounts for those who never had
them in pre-prohibition times. It has in-
creased the efficiency of every branch of j
American life and has saved the lives of
countless men, women and children.
Fifth—The law is approved by an over-
whelming majority of the people, and any

It has filled to more |

Social diseases |
cannot be charged against prohibition any |
The |
youth of the land is not being corrupted to!

Local R.0.T.C. Awards
Medals to Best Drilled

Many Medals and Caps Will be
Given

TWO CUPS AWARDED

| es ssa

| National Rifle Team is Given Special

Insignia to be Worn on
Sweaters

Supporters of Davidson College have of-
fered cups and trophies to members of the
Military Department and units of the D. O.
T. C. who were winners in the annual com-
| petitions held at the college.

Capt. Reid Morrison, of Mooresville, who
is an official inthe National Rifle Association
and who commanded with distinction a bat-
tery of field artillery during the World War,

* gave a shooting medal for the best shot in

the gallery rifle competitions. This trophy was
won by J. B. Webb. Mr. Webb is also cap-
tain of the Hearst Trophy Team the trophy in

this instance being given by William Ran- ;°

dolph Hearst for the best college rifle team
in the country.

In addition to the cup offered by Mr.
Hearst, Captain Weems has awarded insignia
to-cach member of the team, this insignia to
be worn on a sweater. The men entitled to
wear this insignia are J. B. Webb, A. W.
Alexander, FE. E. Brown, T. L. Short, and

R. G. Abernathy.
Maj. L. B. Crayton, O. R. C., of David-
son, N. C.. an alumnus of Davidson College,

has given a trophy to the member of the
freshman class making the highest score in
the gallery rifle practice. This trophy was
won by S. W. McGill, who was high man in
his class of 208 men.

The Chamber of Commerce of Charlotte
gave a medal to the man judged to be the
best corporal in the R. O. T. C. battalion.
J. F. McCrary, of Asheboro, N. C.. won
;this medal for himself and the Henderson
Trophy for the members of his squad. The
latter trophy consists of bar pins for indi-
vidual members of the squad and is given
by the Hendersdh Jewelry Co., of Davidson.
This squad was the fourth squad of third
platoon of Company D, Capt. L. L. Deck
commanding the company. Members of the
squad receiving medals are C. W. Harrison,
T. C. Watkins, J. O. Wenberg, J. M. Sam-
ple, L. C. Wadsworth, S. W. Watkins, and
J. S. Ervin.

The P. M. S. and T. Cup, given by Cap- |

tain Weems, was awarded for the best drill-
ed platoon in the R. O. T. C. batallion. This
trophy was won by the first platoon, Com-
pany A, Lieut. C. EF. Houston, of Monroe,
N. C., commanding. Company A is com-
manded by Capt. J. F. Moore, of Takamatsu,
Japan.

The Scabbard and Blade Trophy will be
awarded to the best company in the Davidson
College batallion. To date the winner has
not been decided.

The White Drug Company medal was
awarded to the best cadet in the Sophomore
class. The medal is given bythe White Drug
|Co., Davidson, N. C. Mr. Arbuckle is the

}son of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the Davidson |

College faculty.

The J. H. Carson medal is awarded by
Mr. J. H. Carson, a prominent alumnus of
Davidson College, and is given to the man
in the Freshman class who is decided the
| best man in his class from a military stand-
point. This medal will be given to S. M.
Watkins, who won out over the other mem-
bers of the class of 208 men.

Another medal to be awarded to a member '

of the Freshman class is the Stowe Brothers
Medal, awarded by the new moving picture
| firm of Davidson. This medal goes to the
best individual shot of the Freshman class on
the college rifle range. The trophy has been
won by J. K. Cook, who was high man in
‘his class this year.

of the week for a trip on which they are to

meet several of the best teams in the state. |
”| This jaunt is the first real trial that the net-

men have had this year.

effort to modify it or repeal any section of it |
is doomed to defeat.
| Sixth—State operation of the fiquor traffic |
can never succeed in the United States. ‘The
|assertion that it have proved a success in
various Provinces of Canada will not stand
investigation. |
Of course there were other charges with- |
out number which the wets advanced and the
drys challenged, but in the main the’ indict-
ment and the answer was as outlined. |

The fresh tennis team left the early part

‘New Courses to be

Given This Summer

Four courses will be offered to students
attending summer school at Davidson this
summer, A course will be given in Zoology,
one in Education, one in Spanish 2, and one
in Greek 2. School will begin the day after
commencement and will extend over a period
of six weeks.

Dr. W. L. Porter will teach the course in
Zoology. This is a special course arranged
to meet the requirements of a medical school,
and is not included in the regular college
curriculum, Classes will begin the day after
commencement at 8:00 a, m. Each day's
work in the summer school will count as
much as a week's work in the regular nine
months’ course. The first part of the course
will be taken up in the study of vertebrates,
and the second part in the study of inverte-
brates.

Dr. Fleagle will offer a course in educa-
tion. This is a course especially interesting
to teachers wishing either to raise or renew
their license.
given at universities and is not really de-
signed for students.
wishing to take it can get a summer school
credit in education equivalent to six hours
in the regular course. About 25 teachers and
several students have already signed up for
this course.

A course in Spanish 2 will be given by
Professor Goldiere, and a course in Greek 2
Dr. Harding. A good many students
have already signed for these courses
a good many more applicants are expected.

These four are the only courses which
have been arranged for so far. In each

However, any student

hy
and

course six hours’ credit will he given toward |

graduation. Each day's work will be equiva-
lent to a week's work in the regular nine

months’ course or to threee one-hour classes. !

It is a regular teachers’ course !

Class baseball opened Tuesday with the
Juniors playing the Sophs. The second game
comes tomorrow when the Seniors are pitted
against the lowly fresh. The game for the
championship will-be played next week, prob-
ably on Tuesday. From pre-season dope the
outcome is highly involved.” Try to pick
the winner.

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

ALHAMBRA

CHARLOTTE
Monday-Tuesday
The Exquisite Sinner

WITH
Renne Anoree, Conrad Nagel

COMING SOON

Keeper of the Bees, by Porter
Desert Gold, by Zene Grey
Johnstown Flood, with Geo. O’Brien
Lucky | ady, with Greta Nissen
Crown of Lies, with Pola Negri

Sea Horses, with Jack Holt

My Own Pal, with Tom Mix

of not carrying it.

Insurance Department.

INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price

McA. CARSON, Mgr..(’13)
Independence Trust Co.

Charlotte N.C.

1926, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco
, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Pick a pipe
‘|| and pack it ~
with good old ”

PA.

TALK about “‘alliteration’s artful aid”
printer certainly raided the “p” box that trip.
But let that go! The advice is just as serious and
sound as though it were couched in the careful
diction of an English prof.

P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your
throat. The Prince Albert process settled that
in P. A.’s freshman year. Get yourself a tidy
red tin of Prince Albert today. The first load-up
will tell you why pipes are so fashionable among
young men today.

PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

. the

Just get yourself a jimmy-pipe and fill the
bowl to the brim with Prince Albert. Light up,
and let the first fragrant whiff tell you that no
other tobacco is like P. A.—or can be!
and sweet and fragrant, P. A. has everything a
fellow ever wished for in a smoke.

Cool

P.A.
tidy red tins,
pound tin

pound crystal-glass humidors
sponge -moistener
And always with every bit of
bite and parch removed by
the Prince paivert process.

with

is sold everywhere in
ound and half.
umidors, and

top.

