Vol. XIV

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 9, 1926

FORENSIC PROGRAM TO
INCLUDE EIGHT MEETS
WITH LEADING TEAMS

As 2 IG, George W: Washington, Se-|

wanee, William and Mary, Gettys- |

burg, Rutgers, Emory, and Duke
Will Be Met—Six Next Spring

The. heaviest debating schedule in the}

history of the college was announced re-
cently by L. D. Wharton, Jr., president of
the Davidson Forensic Council. The
sity schedule includes debates with eight
of the leading colleges and
of the south and, east.

universities

Schools that will be
vidson varsity teams
from seven different states, in the ‘fol-
lowing order Virginia!*Tech, George
Washington University, University of the
South (Sewanee), William
Rutgers University, Emory
and Duke University. Freshman debates
with the University of North Carolina
have also been scheduled for the fourth
consecutive year, :

met by the Da-

this season are

and

The Davidson schedule will be opened
Friday night when the Wildcats engage
the Virginia

Polytechnic Institute at
Blacksburg on the “light wine and beer”
topic. Layton McCutchen and Gbeer

Davis are the Davidson men on this team.
They will meet the George Washington

University team at. Davidson onthe same4

subject next Monday evening.

In the spring Davidson will make its
first debating tour, meeting William and
Mary, Gettysburg College, and Rutgers
University on this trip.

Another trip will be made to Greens-
boro to meet the Duke University team,
while home debates have been scheduled
with Emory and Sewanee.

To carry on this program three more
teams will be sélected following the
Christmas holidays. There are five var-
sity debaters in addition to the two men
who will make their emblems this week.
They are: C. W. Williams, debated aginst

(Continued on page 7)

var- |

‘Students Respond
to Hangchow Fund

With approximately three-fourths of the
$1,000 quota of the Hangchow College Fund
subscribed after the first-night canvass,
ports from the campaign headquarters indi-
| cated that the entire amount would be

Lee

raised
The
{ subscription lists were formally opened Tues:
day night,.when a room-to-room canvass of
the
Pinkney, campaign leader.
| At the time that The Davidsonian went to
| press, reports were incomplete, but subserip-
tions at that time totalled more than $750.
Preparations for the campaign were begun

}on the second day of the campaign.

the dormitories was commenced under
lige ° - 5
| direction of J. F.

Mary, |
University, |

last week when several talks explaining the
[putpose of the Hangchow Fund were made
{to the students in chapel. Among those who
Barge were Jim Pinkney, Bill Covington,

and Professors Bailey and Williams. As
| they explained, the purpose of the campaign
was to raise funds for the support of War-
ren Cox, who is teaching chemistry in Hang-
chow Christian College, China. The students
of Davidson have supported Cox in his work
for the last two years, and a canvass of the
students is made each year to pledge funds
for his upkeep.

-

The mutiagement of the room-to-room can-
vass was put in eharge of a captain of each
dormitory. These captains had others to
canvass each floor so that the campaign was
finished quickly and efficiently. There were
a good many men who were not seen, how-
ever, but they will be reached within the
next few days. Those who did not have the
opportuntiy to help in raising this fund be-

cause they were not seen can give their
plege to Pinkney, campaign leader.

Watts Dormitory with a total of about
$165, cash and pledges, led in the total
amount given by a single dormitory. East
and West Dormitories both totalled about
$150, with the other smaller buildings fol-
| (Continued on page 2)

Davidion Presosed as Member of New
South Atlantic A Athletic Conference

Davidson College will probably enter a
Mid-Atlantic Conference with other
teams if such reaches a material form,
for opinion of officials at Davidson in-
dicated that this step met their apprval,
that it would fulfill a tremendous need
and that only good would eault there-
from.

“T think it’s a mighty nes thing,” said
Prof. W. W. Wood, graduate manager
of athletics, “and I would like to see Da-
vidson allied with other teams in the pro-
posed conference. If it was limited to in-
clude schools within an area that wéuld
not be too large, I believe the Athletic
Council, composed of alumni and athletic
officials here, would sanction the en-
trance of Davidson College into such an
association.”

Monk Younger, head coach of ath-
letics at Davidson, concurred with this
opinion. “Gaining admission into
Southern Conference for any team is out
of the question,” he said. “It is already
too large, and the application of any
school would not even be considered.”

He went on to say that a number of
schools need: the proposed allignment,
and that it was discussed last week at
the Jacksonville conference of coaches
from southern. institutions, with indica-
tions that several schools would with-
draw from the present association’ to join
the proposed organization.

_ “Several teams today feel as if they:
are isolated because they are not in any |

the |

schools concerned.

Aside: from the statements of officials
Davidson, the new conference would
approbation from the: student
body, as indicated by personal expres-

sions of a favorable nature. Gy
This association will be called “The

Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Confer-
ence. Among the proposed members are
‘some of the leading colieges and univer-
sities in Maryland, Virginia, North Caro-
lina, South Carolina, and Georgia. This
will give the association many strong
teams without a great distance separating
them. The proposed personnel is limited
to 12 or 15 members.

at
receive

Among the colleges considered are Wil-
liam and Mary, and the University of
Virginia, in Virginia; Duke University,
Wake Forést. and Davidson, in North
Carolina; Furman, Presbyterian College
and Citadel, in South Carolina; and, Og-
lethorpe and Mercer, in’ Georgia.

Lwas.incattendancenatthiasostating ada 4

INITIATED INTO PHI BETA KAPPA |/|

Here are the four leading students of the present senior class.
of their scholastic ability they were formally initiated into the North Carolina

In recognition

Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa last
was held in Shearer Hall. All four men are leaders in other campus activities
as well as scholastic. Reading from left to right they are: H. M. Austin, W. A.
Christian, W. T. Covington, and W. S. Woods.

Friday night. The public ceremony

Doctor Martin Attends Conference of
Southern Colleges at Jackson, Miss.

Glee Club Goes to
State Meet Friday

On Friday, December 1oth, the David-
son College Glee Club will go to Durham
to compete in a contest between all the

Educators of Southland Assemble
for Annual Meeting

DAVIDSON COMPLIMENTED
School Ranks High Among Leading
Colleges of Association—Many
Statistics Given

wreeti ; ; : ; ‘ leading male glee clubs in the; state, In

alee ma ‘AI Le ; acai : a 4 ai |each state at some central point, a simi-

ciation of Colleges and Secondary Schools | jar contest will be held to choose the best
of the’ Southern States convened in|

singing club in the state. These state
contests are iv first steps of elimination
PENA A ce cea cee
iy Stee Chae Too Chub. Te is to be ca

The winner of the state contest at|
| Durham will go to Birmingham where ‘Hel

Jackson, Miss., on December 2nd and 3rd.
Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, |;

representative of the college. He reports |
a pleasing as well as profitable trip.

Although the formal OPEL NB of the inter-state contest of the southern states
conference did not take place until rhurs j will be held. The club that comes out on
day, Ue LOUsS preliminary Meetings | ton at the meet in Birmingham will go
were held on Puesdav and Wednesday ito New York to compete ‘for national
by the Executive Committee, the Commit-|jonors with the winners: of the various
tee on Institutions of Higher Learning

the United States.

The Davidson Choristers have practised
regularly night for the past two
|weeks and have every reason to believe
applications of institutions that desired | ¢ya¢ they will come out top in the
membership in the Out of | tz ate meet. The singers alone will com-
a large number of applicants, 17 colleges in this contest, and the orchestra,
were admitted, among which were three | which usually accompanies the elub, will
North Carolina Guil- (Continued on page 8)

; ; é f | districts all over
and the Committee on Secondary Schools.

The Committe
Learning was concerned more with the |

on Institutions of Higher | every

on
association.
| pete

institutions: Elon,

ford, and Greensboro College for Women.
The Committee Schools
heard the reports of various committees
that had been working during the year |

on Secondary

on problems relating to Secondary

Schools, both public and private. The |

association admitted more than one hun- -
conference except their own state asso-|dred additional secondary schools and) Saturday afternoon, the stands of
ciations. It would give a new aspect to} dropped about 20 from its lists. Davidson College were allowed to wit-
the work of numerous teams of this sec-} Among the papers presented to the) ness the first public initiation of the “D”
tion. Certainly no harm can‘result, while }association was a study by Professor|Club. This club is composed of those
there is much room for good.” Roemer of the Educational Department | members of the student body who have

Wi cuamlibn GE tite Bronosed Gonterenee of the University of Morida, on "The | their letter on some athletic team of the

at Jacksonville did not pass beyond the eps oF colege pecen olen ie bainica eager Uliain eden Was, Held Gi ae
embryonic stage, it is understood, but First Semester,” speaking only of those campus and was well attended by the
with favorable statements from numerep COMINK from: schools accredited by the | Sideents ;
ous coaches, it is believed—that concrete association. The largest number of fail- | Starting the program, the choir com-
action will»follow by a continuous dis-|"T°> Ws found ‘tobe in mathematics, | posed Se tees blacksiadsd bretiseni ell
cussion of the proposition among the with quite a large number in language | Green, Bill Christian, and Ed Wisco

courses. rendered several wellknown melodies.

They were interrupted by the arrival of
the parson, Bob Mitchell, who advanced |
and took his place on the platform and

(Continued on page 8)

FIRST HOME DEBATE started his services. His audience was
————— composed of two members of the Street-

. The first home varsity intercol- cleaners Union, Bill Story. and | Mason.
¢ inatata debate Gf the’ vane: Will: be Carroll; a fish peddler, Jim King; an)
Ethiopian washerwoman, Fats Laws;

held in Shearer Hall Monday night ltwo bootblacks, Jim Farrell and Don
at eight o’clock, Davidson meeting Wharton; a traffic cop, Bill Treverton;

the George Washington University
team on the subject “Resolved, that
the Volstead Act should be amend-
ed to permit light wines and beer.”

The Davidson team composed of
Layton McCutchen and Greer Davis
will uphold the negative side of the
question. This will be their second
contest on this question, having
met the Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute team on the same question
in Blacksburg Friday night.

and a South Sea dancer, Hebe McIlwaine. |

After the reading of the Scripture and |
several songs by*the choir the parson an-
nounced his text as Literature. In his)
sermon he showed the disastrous effect.
that literature had had the great |
writers in our history. His puns on
Shakespeare’s plays were received ‘with
much hilarity on the part of his hearers. |
Some of the prominent writers came in
for their share of ridicule by the speaker.
He was interrupted many times by

on

shouts from his audience and choir show- |

‘North Carolina Gamma of

Phi Beta Kappa Takes in
Eleven Members Friday

Nine Alumni Are te Forthally Initiated
Into Membership

FOUR STUDENTS TAKEN

Doctor Snyder of ‘of Wofford College
Delivers Fine Address at Public

Ceremonies

“Scholarship can be and must be made

a college activity in which there is life,”
declared Dr. Henry Nelson Snyder, pres-
ident of Wofford College, in the prin-

cipal address at the annual initiation of
the new members by the Davidson Col-
the Phi Beta Kappa,

scholastic fraternity,

lege chapter of

national honorary

here Friday night. A large audience of
students, faculty (members, and towns-
people heard Dr. Snyder's stirring plea

for making scholarship the principal ac-
tivity on the college campus.
“It has said and
where the modern college really lives is
not in classroom, but rather on the cam-
pus, where the students play and think.”
Dr. Snyder urge. that
more interest be placed on scholastic pur-
suits. “When I think of colleges, I think
not of the buildings, not of the faculty,
not of the trustees, nor even the presi-
dent ; but ppther of i immortal eas

been over over that

explained in’ his

_ eolere's campus.

declared that
of social clubs,

Dr. Snyder the multi-
tudinous array honorary
groups, and scientific cliques that clutter
every college campus are slowly but
surely throttling the life mut of the
classroom and destroying the interest in
scholastic endeavors.

“Writers’ Clubs are
of our English classes,

taking the life out
Drama Clubs are
monopolizing the interest of students of
Shakespeare and the other great play-
wrights, and debating clubs are gradual-
ly supplanting the Literary

Greek Letter social fraternities
flourishing. They thrive simply because

(Continued on page 8) 7

Societies.

are also

Fi ret Public initiation of “Dp” Club
is Held Saturday on College Campus

ing that they at least were in sympathy

with his reasoning. The collection of
this illustrious audience resulted in the
pastor receiving a fish and a chew of

tobacco.

Following this, Buford Webb and John
Ely were blindfolded and made to feed
each other But
the other’s mouth and poured the con-
tents of the spoon upon the face of his
opponent. Hebe the
sentative of the South Sea gave a very
original interpretation of Gilda Grey's
famous While can hand
Hebe on dance, his cos-
tume
glee.

As a final
lined up for
having to be
Interest was

that the
membered in the private initiation. Bill
Christian the lucky winnér. The
initiation was closed with 15 Rahs for the
"PD" Club
ter from force of habit.

Monday night the final and private
initiation was held at the gym. All the
afternoon and the early part of the night
the roads leading from Davidson were
filled with students desirous of eluding
the far famed “D” Club. All proved in
vain as” the “D” Club appeased their
craving for blood on the initiates rather

(Continued on page 2)

molasses. each missed

McIlwaine, repre-

shimmy. we
little

received with

very his

was many howls of
initiated were
the

the
race, peanut
the of the
stimulated by the
winner would

number
peanut
by

a
moved use
nose,
be

promise re-

Was

caused the onlookers to scat-
