4

: THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Waite of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 45
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students ¢ of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davic
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Galkgha Year

be in the hands of the

All Articles for Publication must

Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
CONRAD BREDERICE SMITH ssccccccecus-22 Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURK Busi Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. BRANCH.
L. D. AR’
F, K. BELL.-..- .-Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON.
R. B. PARKER
A. Y. BOWIE....---
A. H. HOLLINGSWOR’ i
GARNETT McMILLAN Humorous Editor
J. B. WEB .---Alumni Editor
H. L. Sneed Editor
Business Staff
H. D. BURKE....- -B
W GHGUN.N GH fisisecscescco ee Assistant Business Manager
V. S. .--Assistant. Business Manager
H. Y. tion M
1h a Supscription Manager
JULIA -----s---------Service Department
MiePS' CRAWEORD iivccicaitsscsccccoss sc eeasecassas. ssistant
Reporters’ Club

G. a EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES
i BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. L. LINGLE

ce MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas. B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAINE
H. AUS A 2, Cay
Cc. L. BRAGAW ‘A. M. OW
D. M. CALHOUN J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON BR. WILSON
We T. DAVIS Cc. VERS

S. GORDON W. S. DS
JOHN GWIN J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

PACIFISM vs. R. O. T. C.

Why have military training in our Amer-
ican colleges ?

This question has been agitated during the
past few years since the World War and to-
day it stands forth as a problem that con-
cerns the future ulster system of our
country.

The United States government, so far, has
not paid much attention to these pacifists
who decry the fact that the glorious young
manhood of our fair land are being prepared
as cannon fodder, In several colleges and
universities the discussion as to whether the
military training received is beneficial, has
been much mooted. The students of the
College of the City of New York staged an
unsuccessful revolt against such training in
December but their efforts were heralded
widely enough to cause the pacifists to add
fuel to their fires of disturbance.

The complaint against R. O. T. C. courses
in colleges and schools has been made more
by Toud-mouthed agitators and narrow-
visioned mollycoddles rather than by the’
students who are actually concerned with it.
There is in Congress today a party who have
taken a very decided stand upon this ques-
tion, and their viewpoint is that such en-
forced military training is detrimental to
the youth of this country. Organized soci-
eties have spread their propaganda through-
out the states in their efforts to belittle the
good that has been done by the War De-
partment in its furtherance of a system of
military education.

If one would look at the records of the
State and War Departments he would un-
doubtedly find many of those who are at
present agitating pacifism on the list of
those who so violently denounced the action
taken by Congress in declaring and carrying
on war with the Imperial German and Aus-
trian governments. Their holy cries of hor-
hor at a policy of activity have not died
down, :

The late war taught the terrible price
which a country pays for unpreparedness.
We spent billions in mobilizing and equip-
ping expeditionary forces to combat a foe
who had never reached our shores, Seventy
thousand young lives were snuffed out and
many thousands more were disabled for life.
The Allies paid in men and millions. The
effect is not over, and never will be as long
as history lasts.

The R. O. T. C. has for its purpose the
training of young men for service to their
country. Not for military service alone, but
the fulfillment of the highest duties of citi-
zenship. To build a man physically, moral-
ly ; to instill habits of obedience and ideals of
loyalty and faithfulness, is the theme of this
organization’s service. Strict obedience is
required. Unswerving loyalty to one’s
country is set as.the ideal.

Those of us who believe that there will
be another war realize that the best way to

WAR DEPARTMENT
SENDS GREETINGS

“The magnificent record of loy-
alty and service to the nation which
characterizes the history of David-
son College is exemplified in the
Davidson men who make up its
R. O. T. C. )

“Every citizen owes it to his
country to so school himself that
he may be of some value should
national emergency require his
service with the colors.

“Every generation of Americans
since the nation began have fought
and sacrificed that American citi-
zenship might he handed on to us
as the great privilege on earth. We
would be poor descendants of those
men and women if we failed in the
continued obligation and did not
give of our best to maintain for our
sons and their sons the same splen-
did inheritance.

“All success to you in the fine
service you are giving not only to
Davidson and North Carolina but
to the nation.”

HANFORD MacNIDER,
Assistant Secretary of War.

Theodore Roosevelt believed in this. Had
we heeded some of his wise advice in regard
to the late war, money and young manhood
would have been saved... We should never
be in that position again.

R. O. T. C. stresses the all-round develop-
ment of a boy, Any boy that takes four
years of this military training with a sum-
mer or two at a camp, will enter upon the
duties of manhood with firmer convictions,
more knowledge of human nature, and a
better understanding of his obligations to
his fellowmen and to his country. This
military education is not primarily concerned
with the fitting up of a man to go to war
but with the training and development that
rounds out a man for the highest type of
citizenship.

The local unit of the R. O. T. C. has a
most successful history behind it. Its offi-
cers have always been of the highest type of
American manhood. Under its influence,
the college has progressed greatly. The ef-
fect of the training received is readily ap-
parent. More Juniors are taking the course
this year than have ever taken it before. Un-
der the guidance of Captain Weems, there
is a bright promise for the future of the
k. O. T. C. at Davidson.

D
NINE YEARS AFTER

One day last week, April 6th, marked the
entrance of the United States into the great-
est conflict of all times. On that bright
April day in 1917 we plunged with heart,
soul and “body into the maelstrom of human
devastation and anguish. We put our
shoulders side to side with the stricken
Allies and for a year and a half gave blow
for blow, shell for shell, until at last we
emerged triumphant.

The years that have passed have been
short. The memories of war are with us to-
day. We cannot forget the millions of
young men who gave their lives. The ec-
onomic upsets will last for years to come.
Nations are still snarling at one another;
real peace has not been secured. The fruits
of war are too bitter to he sweetened by a
few years of peace.

These few years have wrought great
changes in the affairs of nations. Govern-
ments have been deposed and overthrown.
Germany is in a state oh unrest because her
people are not sure of their government. We
know little of Russia except that the Czar
is dead and there are deadly factions tearing
at each other’s throats. Clemenceau and
Joffre have played their part and are heard
from no more.

The ablest generals of the war have
mostly gone into the discard. War demands
young flesh for its rapacious maw. Persh-
ing-and Bullard of our own forces have re-
tired. Foch is still alert but he has not the
power of former years. Petain, Allenby,

3yng, Wilson and others who inscribed
themselves upon the rolls of the illustrious
are forgotten. Many of the players are
off the stage and their lives have been closed
in disappointment.

The League seems to bein a-state ef tar-
moil today. The Locarno Treaty has not
had the steadying effect that was hoped for.
Nations seem jealous of one another. Per-
haps the steadying hand of the United
States was needed. We think that it will
be the determining influence of future af-
fairs.

But through all the clouds, a central,
dominant figure stands out above all others.
By his devotion to an ideal which a selfish
world was not ready for, he sacrificed his

life on the altar-of human liberty. The dom-
inent figure of the war and reconstruction
was and is—Woodrow Wilson.

H. L. MENCKEN ET AL.

Henry I. Mencken, devout Methodist
self-appointed guardian of our national in-
telligence, and well known in this section
of the South for certain scurrilous articles
casting aspersions on our unbeknighted
country, is fast acquiring the right to be
calledthe “bad boy” of contemporary Amer-
ican literature.

His latest breach of national strength and
security has been to twiddle his thumbs with
rare disdain at the earnest members of a cer-

tain Boston society which sought to prevent
the circulation of the American Mercury,
of which he is the editor, on account of a
certain article, “Hatrack.” The Watch and
Ward Society, of Boston, has for its pur-
pose the prevention of a decline in public
morals; its members, presumably cultured
Bostonians, have undertaken to inculcate a
higher sense of morality in the hoi polloi by
guarding them carefully from contaminat-
ing literature and = public performances
where art and so-called artists display fem-
inine pulchritude for a purpose.

A hubbub was raised in the Hub, the mag-
azine was ordered suppressed there and ina
day or two the powers that be, at Washing-
ton, sent forth an edict that the Mercury
was barred from the mails. Mecken smiled.
The April issue of his magazine had been
sent to all parts of the United States, there
were no more available, but there
bright prospects for a 100 per cent increase
in circulation the next month.

The article in question treated of small
town prostitution, describing in no mincing
terms some of the evils that were present in
the ordinary American village of several
decades ago. But this was “used only to
illustrate the manner in which the preachers
and evangelists of that day injected religion
into a person. Hell was painted in lurid
terms; the good men and women of the
town avere asked to join in the crusade for
righteousness and to eschew evil in every
form. Awful punishment was brought home
to them dy fanciful illustrations. The over-
whelming love of God and his infinite mercy
was stressed nearly so much as his w rath
and anger,

“Hatrack” was the name given to a wom-
an of the streets in the little town in which’
the writer lived. She was bad because she
was an object of scorn in the community ;
her craving for normal human companion-
ship was never gratified. She was a faith-
ful attendant at church but she sat alone.
The preacher told of the beautiful story of
Mary Magdalene but he and his consecra-
ted flock never approached Hatrack with
profters of love and compassion. Their reli-
gion was in theory and not in fact. And the
woman learned to look upon those about her
with a dull hatred because she was not one
of them. She was fundamentally good; a
little Christian persuasion would have
changed her whole life. :

The story itself is vibrant with human in-
terest and real life. The description of the
woman’s yearning for better things is like
unto that of a Hugo or a De Maupassant.
Such is as true as life itself. The evil is too
often mixed with the good and it is hard to
face at times. It does us good to discover
the hidden seam of sorrow and misery in
life, for by doing so, we can better shape our
efforts towards rendering a greater service
towards our fellow men.

The management ofthe local movie house
is to be tendered congratulations and felici-
tations for the high grade attractions that
have been secured this year. These pictures
have been representative of the best pro-
ductions of this country. The seats, lately
added have served the townspeople and the
music has been good. The only thing that
is lacking, or rather the only fly i in the oint-
ment, is the small crowd of thoughtless
scofflaws who persist in smoking there.

Minor Chords

LOST MOTION
Fhere’s a snap to their step as they're marching,
There's a thrill as the band starts to play.
Thre's a throb in the heerts of the ladies,
«ds their soldier. lads tramp, tramp away.

The drums roll their cry of defiance,
There's strength in thé bugle’s shrill blast,
And we think of the battle’s wild fury,
As the boys in khaki march past.

The crowd stands breathless and watches,
Their fear is lost in the thrill,
For there’s no need to fear war's anger today,
Tt’s only our “Rotcy” at drill.
: —Harllee Brauch, Jr.

delay its Yaad laa is to prepare for it.

were .

be tempted to give you a demerit.

ae

For the good of the R. O. T. C. unit we hope
that no Freshman pulls the trick during inspection
that happened last year. An officer was inspect-
ing a platoon and upon taking the gun got his
finger in the chamber; the above-mention Fresh-
man immediately closed the boli, much to the
pain and. displeasure of the officer.

Going through life
gun;

is like shooting a imachine
any dumb-bell can sit still and pull the trig-
ger, but when a stoppage occurs the trained man
scores,

A Freshman of Co. A wouldn't look through the
peep sight because it didn't sound decent to him.

A newly appointed platoon sergeant (ame fur-
nished upon receipt of stamped, self-addressed en-
velope) was calling the roll for the first tin.e. He
came o his own name, called it out twice and then
marked himself absent.

: A UPOTIAN INSPECTION

“Gentlemen of the front rank may stand at
case or lvan on their riflles. Private Mister Smith,
you’ve forgotten your leggins; try to remember
them for next drill. Mr. Jones, those golf shoes
are very attractive, and such pretty stockings.
Corporal Stuffenhauser, you have a_ splendid
squad; by their smiling faces I can see that you
treat them well. Kindly replace those captain’s
bars with corporal’s chevrons at your convenience.
Mr. Knotgz as there is no special ceremony for
today a'straw hat is not required, next time I'll
Mr. Intheneck,
I think you can find a better place for your frat
pin than on your R. O. T. C. cap. Mr. Staggerty.
what is that bulging in your hip pocket? I want
to sce you behind the armory after drill. Mr.
Rymaplg, it is against all military etiquette to
spit tobacco juice at the men in the front rank.
Mr. Specsworth, what is that book you are read-
ing? Ah, ‘Manhattan Transfer,’ very good book.
Now, you gentlemen may close ranks at will; a
good appearance today. First sergeant;
gimme a match, Tell the company they may re-
tire to their rooms.”

very

A MACHINE GUNNER'S DREAM

Buford Webb, Captain Elkin’s expert machine
gunner, had been firing on the range all after-
noon. That night his room-mate heard him get
up out of bed and start rambling around; he sat
down on the floor near the radiator and began
turning he valve. Then began the following som-
nambulist monologue:

Well, well—the front lines.
up here and where is everybody?
here’s the old gun; all ready too. Now bring on
those—those--who are we fighting anyway?
Aha! there’s one in pink pajamas—must be fight-
ing the Japs. I'll make him jump. Now how do
you start—let’s see—page 384 Sec. 3. Insertcart-
ridge belt from the—ah, here’s a hole in the
bottom—fits niecly. No, no, that’s backwards.
Ha, ha, almost shot myself. Now .pull back on
the handlebars and ease in the clutch. Boy, don’t
she make a noise. NOW, what the heck. That
fellow hasn’t-moved yet. Wonder what—well,
well, wouldn't that jar you, all rolling right out
on the ground in front. I know that one—too
much head-space adjustment. Probably needs a
size 6 7-8 instead of a 7. Put a little piece of felt
under the upper swing swivel. Now, here we go.
—The dirty bum's gone off somewhere—guess I'd
better search awhile. They army sure is a hard
life—this the roughest stretch of road I’ve
ever traversed—Better slow down—I'll break a
recoil spring. Gone to missing again—Dead!
Make a hurried reconnaissance.—Halfway be-
tween the swimming pool and the barn—that
means a stoppage in the 9th position; have to
strip her.—Page 655 Sec. 185/62—Pull back on the
bolt, wind up the driving spring and remove to
the rear. Raise the cover and cover charge to
$1.50,—wash the back plate, knife and fork. Next
try to extract the barrel, barrel staves, and bung,
by turning the extractor cam feed spring lever in-
to a corkscrew and so removing the plug from
the left front flat surface of barrel extension and
draining the carburator—Here’s the trouble—-
angie of sight-has the lens broken and the quad-
rant of elevation is worn almost through to the
cocking lever retaining pimple, Truly a terrible
state—How do they expect a man to do over-
head fire in the dark with a mask on with an
old sewing machine like that. I'm going back to
bed.

Now how did I get
Doesn't matter,

is

This year’s best joke—All the boys are looking
forward to a nice pleasant time at Camp Mc-

Clellan.
KABLE.

