THEDA

MD sonian

Pe ee rcrerrs sone ~
. . ~

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON |

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. c.,

NOVEMB

|
}

ER 25, 1926

Davidson to Meet Duke in Final Game of Season

The Davidsonian Will Sponsor Program
by Players of Queens College Tuesday

Three. One-Act Plays Plays to be Given by
SECOND APPEARANCE

“Chrysanthemums,” “Poor Me,” and
“Maid of France” Presented—
Admission Fifty Cents

“The Queen Players” will appear in Da-
vidson next Tuesday night with a program
of three one-act plays, for the henefit and
pleasure of all the Davidson students. The
“program is being presented under the aus-
pices of the “Davidsonian.” It will begin
promptly at 8:00 p..m., in Shearer Hall.

Under the directorship of Miss Ethel
King, the club will present a varied program
of three one-act plays instead of the single
play of greater length which was given last
year, The first of the group, “Chrysanthe-
mums,” is a charming Japanese romance,
with an oriental setting. The next is a
laughable comedy, “Poor Me,” in which sev-
eral of the new members of the Dramatic
club will be introduced. The last of the
presentations will be the “Maid of France.”
The scene of this one-act, lay i is in the square

‘of a French town before the statue of Jeanne
d’Arc, on Christmas Eve, during the World
War. All of these plays have been presented
in Charlotte several weeks ago with remark-
able success.

There will be a larger troop of players on
the program this year than the group which
presented the delightful “Mr, Bob” last
year. Among those who have visited the
campus before as members of the Dramatic
club are Misses Dolly Moore, Anne Fays-

(Continued on page 8)

R.0.T.C. Battalion to be

Inspected and Reviewed

Colonel. Powell, of Fourth Corps
Area, Makes Complete Inspection
of Military Unit

On his regular inspection tour, Col. Frank
W. Rowell, officer in charge of R. O. T. C.
affairs in the Fourth Corps Area, inspected,
the Davidson battalion Wednesday afternoon.
Colonel. Rowell arrived Wednesday and leay-
ing on Thursday he was unable to inspect
the class work,

The inspection is made every year by this
officer and it was a result of his inspection
that entitled the Davidson organization to the
official inspection by the War Department
last year which led to the battalion being
given distinguished rating.

During the past two years, military affairs
at Davidson have been brought to a higher
plane of efficiency than ever before. Much
credit is due Captain Weems and his staff
of officers who have been ever eager to raise
the standard of the battalion. They have
worked to bring about better discipline, great-
er proficiency, and a neater appearance among
the individual members and the organization
as a whole,

The work of Major Sims, of the battalion,
and his staff, together with the company
commanders has been gratifying both to
Captain Weems and his associates. Every
effort was made to have a neat appearance
before the presentation. to Colonel Rowell,
and all cadet officers put forth their best
efforts for the occasion.

Colonel Rowell has always shown great
interest in Davidson in affairs other than
military. He has expressed his good feeling
toward Davidson and the instructors and it
is thought that he was responsible, largely,
for the recognition last year.

Noted Journalist
Reviews Magazine

At the request of the staff of editors of
The Chameleon one of our Southern men of
letters, distinguished in own. field of
endeavor and interested in. college literary
work, consented to review the November is-
sue of The Chameleon, his critical comment
to appear in The Davidsonian, This gentle-
man has evidenced interest in the Davidson
College magazine of the past and is well ac-
quainted with its vicissitudes. The review
below has just been received from him. It is
his wish that his name not be made public.

Flaunting a ‘gaily flamboyant jacket, befit-
ting its name and the season, The Chameleon
made last week its first appearance for the
year. In its format—all the details of make-
up and arrangement of material—the néwly
christened Magazine undoubtedly surpasses
any issue during the previous forty-one years
of its history. It looks good. And looks,
after all, play possibly the largest part in
the impression produced by a magazine.

Ag to content,,the. keynote. is struck, in the
Editor's notes under the caption, “Cham’s
Colors.” The purpose is to produce a maga-
zine, which is strictly the work of Davidson
College students—amateurish, if you please,
but possessing a distinctively literary tone.

his

the Scylla of heaviness, and on the other the
Charybdis of flippancy; it should imitate
neither the Atlantic Monthly nor the Amer-
ican Mercury. In fact, the editor* wishes to
escape imitativeness altogether and to pro-
duce a magazine which will reflect the
thought and opinion of students of Davidson
College. This is an excellent ideal, which
(Continued on page 2)

Football Schedule
Nearly Completed

Prof. W. W. Woods, director of athletics
at Davidson, has been working for some time
arranging the 1927 football schedule. As
yet, one date is open and several others are
pending.

On the schedule it is noticeable that three
teams on the 1926 football schedule do not
appear on next year’s schedule. These are
P. C., Guilford, and Hampden-Sidney. Two
of these date have already been _taken by
other teams. U. of Florida will replace P. C.
and Citadel takes Guilford’s place.

The trip to Gainesville, Fla. to play the
U. of Florida will doubtless be the longest
trip the football team has ever taken. Only
three games of the nine have definitely been
arranged to be played at Davidson. These
are the Elon, V. M.°I., and Duke games.
The State game is tentative, but will likely
be played at Greensboro. The V. M. I. and
Duke games will likely be the only large
games played on Richardson Field. Several
of the games are pending, hence the place of
the engagements have not as yet been arrang-
ed for.

The tentative schedule is:

Sept. 17—Open.

Sept. 24—Citadel (Place undecided).

Oct. 1—Univ. of Florida, at Grainesville,
Florida.

Oct. 8—Wofford (Place undecided).

Oct. 15—Elon at Davidson.

Oct: 22—Wake Forest (Place undecided).

Oct. 29—V. M. I., at Davidson.

Nov. 5—State (Place undecided).

Nov. 12—U. of N. C. (Pending).

Nov. 25—Duke at Davidson.

The publication should avoid on the one hand }

| cities, and also for its Southern tour later in

SEEKS STATE

Phi F-O DA Y

Here is William Lee Younger, the wisest of them

their “gloomy”

schedule in recent years with a record of se

are off to Mr. “Monk” Younger.

Athletic Authorities

all.
against the Blue Devils of Durham in quest of the state title.
cats may claim as their share of the glory of this year will be in large measure due to

Today he leads his charges
Whatever part the Wild-

mentor who has successfully piloted them through the mill of the hardest

ven victories and two defeats, Our hats

and Members of

Faculty Opposed to Post-Season Game

State Glee Clubs |
Meet December 2d

The Davidson College G Glee Club will take |
part in the statesmeect of the
North Carolina, which will be held in Dur
ham the second week in December. All the |
Glee Clubs in the state, those of Carolina, ;
Duke, State, Wake Forest, Davidson, Elon, |
and Guilford, will be representd.

Carolina had the Champion Glee Club last
year-and-this brought much prestige to, the}
school. The winning club this year will he)
given a trip to New York to try in the Na- |
tional contest.
will make the different clubs work even
harder, and the competition for first place
will be very keen.

Each club will sing their college song, one
song selected by the officers of the State
organization, and also one song of their own
selection.

This organization came into existence only |
three years ago, and since that time has done
much to foster competition between the Glee}
Clubs of the state and of the country. There
are organizations of this kind in most of the

-| states of the country, and these state organi-

zations are all banded together under a large
national head.

The Davidson Glee Club is formulating
plans for its yearly visits to neighboring

the year. This tour will not be made; until
after the state and national contests have,
been held, and the local club will be in fine |
shape b ythis time. The route of this tour
has not been announced definitely yet, but
some engagements have been arranged.

| Wake Forest Mink eor Favors Clash
for Championship

MONK YOUNGER SILENT

Glee Clubs of |Greensboro Promoters Post $5,000

Guarantee to Insure Game if
Played There

| The question of a post-season game be- |
} tween the Wildcats and the Demon Deacons
|of Wake Forest was brought into the open

W. |

pbya~ telegram” received by” Prof. W.
Wood from Manager Carrol, of Wake For-
lest, Monday morning. Up until this step the

The chance to win this trip} Whole affair has been between the sport! ing.’

writers of the leading dailies of the state.
When such a definite step was taken the au-

in their stand against such an encounter.

“T had not thought seriously of the mat-
ter,” said Professor Wood when interviewed,
“until I received Mr. Carol's telegram this
morning.
athletic policy of the college. I have re-
ferred the matter to the faculty as a whole,

‘feeling that their opinion should have weight
Dr. Sentelle tells,

under such circumstances,
me that every man that he interviewed was
against such a step, and that he felt confi-
dent that if the faculty took any action, it

would be unnanimous against a post-season |

game.

“Yes,” he went on to say, “
*phone call from the Sports editor of the
Greensboro News, stating that he had a certi-
fied check for $5,000 to be divided equally
between the two teams if the game is played
in Greensboro. I would like to add that I

(Continued on page 2)

The whole idea is contrary to the |

I did receive a}

Clash Today Will Have
Definite Bearing Upon
Championship of State

Duke Homecoming Will Feature
Events of Day

STUDENTS TO ATTEND

Victory for Davideon Will Throw
Title Into Tie if Wake
Forest Wins

Monk Younger’s “Wildcats extraordinary”
will meet their most formidable opponents,
the Duke Blue Devils)today in Durham,

Formidable correct word to use in
referring to these .Blue Devils since they
have not only a fast, hard-driving backfield,
but a line that averages around 178 pounds.
And to top it all they are well coached and
have retained a fine fighting spirit through-
out the whole season.

The Wildcats have a blood relation with
the Blue Devils. Mr. Warren Deuteronomy
Tilson, line coach for the Duke eleven,
none other than the brother of our own Tex
Tilson.

The fact that Duke has one of the strong-
est teams in the state cannot be denied. In
their game with N. C. State the Blue Devils
made 17 first downs to State’s seven. These
downs were made right through the line,
which goes to prove that Duke has seven men
in the front rank who are capable of opening
up holes for their backs to plough through.
This performance of the Devils against State
was backed up by them when they succeeded
in making 15 first downs against the strong
Wake Forest eleven. In the game with Duke
the Deacons made only five first downs. But

(Continued on page 2)

is the

is

State Rereuiie Connell
Organized at Guilford

Henry Powell Elected Vice-Pres-
ident and Acting President—
Plans for Future Made

A great step has been taken in the field of
forensic activities by a meeting recently call-
ed by Professor Perisho, of Guilford Col-
at the request of many colleges in the
state of North Carolina. This request was
; made in order that plans for a North Caro- 4
lina Forensic Association might be discussed.

Representatives from all the colleges in
the state except three met at Guilford Col-
lege November 20th to plan ways and
{means for such an organization. Mr, Henry
T. Powell represented Davidson at this meet-
During the proceedings of the meeting
it was decided that a committee be appointed
to draw up a constitution. This was done

lege,

on

| thorities at Davidson were equally definite, and an adequate constitution was presented

to the assembled members. This constitution
will be put into effect when finally accepted
by the various schools concerned. : All have
thus far expressed themselves as heartily in
favor of such an organization save Carolina,
whose representative was ill and unable to
attend.

Officers were elected at this initial meet-
ing. Mr. Henry Powell was chosen vice-
president and acting president; Prof. C. C.
| Cunningham, professor of English at State
College, was elected secretary and treasurer.
The purpose of this organization is to
| foster debates and orations, and to arrange
contests annually in this field, Its purpose
is laudable and it is hoped that the colleges
throughout the state will lend their support
and co-operation.

This organization will hold regular meet-
\ings and will endeavor to place debating
| (Continued on page 2)

