2 $

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

|

Four Members of Senior Class Formally
Inducted Into Phi Beta Kappa Friday

Hazing Abolished
During First Year |
On Friday.evening the Gamma of North} of Class of 4) 6
Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa initiated | -———. |

into membership four members of the class | During the four years’ history of the class |
of '26. They were: Clarence E. Houston, ! of '26, it has seen many and varied changes
of Monroe, N. C.; Otis L. Brenner, of Au-/| take place around the old college. But per- |
gusta, Ga.; James M. Appleby, of Florence,| haps the most important and momentous of
Ala.; and Robert W. Graves, of Rome, Ga. them all occurred during the Freshman year
The four student members who were taken | when the question of the abolition of hazing
in last fall were A. Hayden Hollingsworth, | was brought before the student body. |
Jr., of Decatur, Ga.; B. U. Ratchford, of | . In previous years attempts had been made
Gastonia, N. C.; E. Kelsey Regen, of Frank-|to outlaw hazing, but up to that time no
lin, Tenn.; and H. L. Shaw, Jr., of Sumter,| marked success had been met with. The
S.C, |class had been here scarcely three months—
Dr. T. W. Lingle, Prof. W. W. Woods,| long enough to get ‘a real good taste of the
and Dr. J. M. McConnell represented the! “old days” and develop a keen anticipation
local chapter at the national council of Phi | for Soph days when they could do a little |
Beta Kappa which was held in New York! hazing. But such hopés were soon to be |
from September’ 8-10 last fall. The national; blighted; for early in December certain
council meets once every three years. | leaders in student body affairs presented to
The officers of the local chapter for the | the student body a movement for the abolition
coming year are: Prof. J. L. Douglas, presi-| of the old institution, substituting for it a |
dent; Dr. T. W. Lingle, vice-president; and| Court of Control! which should have complete
Prof| W. W. Woods, secretary and treasurer. charge of all Freshman discipline. |
This district of Phi Beta Kappa includes! After a great deal of discussion pro and
the states of Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, con the student body voted to give the pro-
North and South Carolina, Georgia, and) posed system a three months’ trial, at the
Florida. In these states there are now 12|end of that time taking a final vote on the ,
colleges which have chapters of the fra-| matter to decide whether it should be a per-
ternity, there being none in Delaware, | manent adoption or not. : |
. Florida, nor in Washington City. | Three months passed. The Court of Con-
It is very probable that charters will be | tro! was tried and tested. Then came the;
granted to two institutions at the next meet- jdate for the final judgment.. On April 7,
ing of the national council in 1928.
The colleges for women in these states

Brenner, Appleby, Graves and
Houston Were Those Honored
—Others Last Fall

| 1923, the student body voted by an over- |
whelming majority to abolish all hazing of
which now have charters are Randolph- every kind and substitute as a permanent
Macon and Agnes-Scott. The total number jnstitution the Court of Control, The small
of colleges with Phi Beta Kappa in the | minority then yoted to make it unanimous. |
United States is 177. | The faculty, recognizing the great step taken
|by the students of Davidson, declared a
‘holiday. |
Since that eventful day the court has been!
working diligently through almost four years |
of service. Criticism as: well as commenda-
tion has been its reward, but there is. no
doubt that it has accomplished a great and
lasting good for the college. Letters of
criticism from parents, in regard the
treatment of their boys, that used to flood
the. dean's office; have entirely disappeared,
and in their stead statements of approval of
class have ever made a better record while the URC LAHAT sy (atoht Hil use are received by
at Davidson ; certainly no class has ever en- | the ain of administration.
gaged in a wider number of activities and |
carried all of them out well, |

ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF
SENIOR CLASS

(Continued from page 1)
it at Davidson of which it may well be proud.
Not content to excel merely in scholastic at-
tainments, the members of this’ class’ have
attained heights in every activity that pertains
to college lifé. In athletics, in literary pur-
suits, in dramatic and musical. productions, in
journalism, they have shown their unques- |
tioned talent and proficiericy. Perhaps no

to

The college records of this year show that |
the average of the class aS a whole was well |
over 90. Obout one-sixth. of the class made| __- . . ; .

Wecat e class m ade | Composing the executive committee of the
the honor roll, which requires an average of | cor , :
an ._|Board of Trustees are Dr. W. L. Lingle,
95. The class has long been known for its | : : .
excellency along scholastic lin RoR AILS 2 Sie AU opinechn secretary and
“xce E ‘ as es. 5 .
if oe ire R. A. Dunn, W. H. Belk, H. N. Pharr, Dr.
Two members of the class of ‘26 have re- |

ceived the highest distinction that Davidson | Cn Etiin Ws cde diocese d cals

has to offer for athletics. Flake Laird and
Harry Vance have both received the Norris
Athletic Trophy cup, which
awarded to the best all-round
Davidson,

This class has taken part in every athletic
event since it made its first advent on the

TRUSTEES, ALUMNI

(Continued from page 1)

Alumni Association
The Alumni Association will hold its an-
nual meeting at a luncheon at the Maxwell
Chambers Hotel at 1:30, at which time it is
expected between four and five hundred
alumni of Davidson will be present. This

is annually

athlete at

COMMENCEMENT
PROGRAM

SUNDAY
11:00 a, m.—Baccalaureate Sermon—
Bishop E.. A. Penick.
8:00 p. m.—Sermon Before the Y. M.
C. A.—Rev. K. J. Foreman.
MONDAY
5:30 p. m.—Senior Class Exercises. ”
8:00 p. m—Dramatic Club Presen-

tation.
10:00 p. m.—General Fraternity Re-
ception.
TUESDAY
9:30 a. m.—Meeting of Board of

Trustees.
12:15 p. m.—Annual Literary Address
—Hon. A. M. Scales.

1:30 p. m—Annual Alumni Luncheon.
Meeting of Athletic Association.
5:00 p. m.—Reception of the Faculty.
8:00 p. m—Exercises of Literary So-
cieties; Senior Oratorical Contest;

Award of Diplomas, Medals, etc.

WEDNESDAY
10:30 a. m—Award of College
Medals; Graduating Exercises;

Lowering of Class Flag.

alumni matters would then be concentrated in
one office.

Officers of the Alumni Association are:
Dr. J. C. Rowan, president; H. T. Mills
and J. C. Harper, vice-presidents, and F. L.

Jackson, treasurer.
'

Athletic Association
The Athletic Association meeting follows
immediately. the gathering at the alumni
luncheon, and it is thought that the report of

the Athletic Council of Davidson will com-!

mand the most interest. At that time it will
be reported that a debt of over seven thou-
sand dollars that faced the local association
at the beginning’ of last year has been re-
duced to a little over one thousand, and that
when next year's schedule is completed the
Davidson College Athletic Association will
be far ahead in finances. :

While no statement has been obtained frotn
the authorities, the matter of a stadium will
probably receive lengthy consideration, Now
that Davidson has the best athletic field in
the state, it needs a concrete stadium to ac-
company it. The Athletic Association will
consider this and take definite action, is the
opinion of many people.

Representative of the alumni on the ath-
letic council are: L. H. Wilkinson, L. Rich-

ardson, and J. M. Black.

CAPTAINS, NOT KINGS

(Continued from page 1)
not see their opportunity was because they
were thinking too hard about their rights
and privileges. There is too much of that
effete spirit of the inefficient kings on mod-
ern campuses. Take a course or two out of
the curriculum and the students probably will
not know they are gone. But take one day

out of the Christmas holidays and hear

campus. In football, basketball, baseball,
tennis, wrestling, track and boxing, it has its
representatives who are worthy to be called
real athletes. Under the tutelage of worthy
coaches they have imbibed the ideals of true
sportsmanship and have proved themselves
worthy foes on the athletic field.

The publications have taken on a new lease
of life sincé the members of the class of ’26
have: managed them. The Davidsonian has
progressed until it is known as one of the
best papers in the South. The class in-
augurated Sanity Rare, the annual humorous
magazine, and -has only recently published
the best annual appearing on the campus.
Members of the class have contributed ar-
ticles of merit to the Davidson College Mag-
azine and to the recent Chameleon, which
was first thought of by the local chapter of
Sigma Upsilon, of which Seniors make up
most of the membership.

In religious work, in deputations and in
personal service this class has sivgn of its
best talent. Hollingsworth, as prévédent of
the Y. M. C. A. during the past ‘year, with
the assistance of his capable cabinet, has
fostered a more religious spirit on the
campus.

The Glee Club and the Dramatic Club
have been instrumntal in fostering the Da-
vidson spirit and in displaying the artistic
talents of many members of the class of '26.
Wilson and Smith as leaders of their respec-
tive organizations have done much for them
by organizing trips and giving concerts and
performances throughout the year.

The work of the four literary societies
has been greatly enhanced” by the work of

will include the class’ of 1926, who will be them howl. Yet a course in the curriculum
formally conducted into the organization, | is an opportunity, while a day in vacation is
with an address of welcome by Dr. J. C.} simply time off. Too many men are more
Rowan, of Concord, president of the alumni | interested in getting out of something in
organization, with a response by R. B. Park-| college than in getting something out of
er, president of the class of '26. | college.”

Routine matters will be taken up at this) pye

. . . . of
time, with particular attention to be given to|

sounded a note warning to the

Debating Record
of Fresh Class
Good This Year

In winning both of their intercollegiate
debates this year, the Freshmen have made
a new record for the coming classes.

! Instead of the triangular debate’ with Wake

Forest, Carolina, and Davidson, this year
only two of the institutions participated,
Carolina and Davidson.

The question was, “Resolved, That the
military forces of the United States should
be consolidated into a department of national
defense with sub-branches in army, navy, and
air forces.”

Davidson's affirmative team, composed of
W. H. Dumas, R. C. Grady, and J. R. Gra-
ham, met their opponents at Davidson and
defeated them by a two to one decision.

The negative team, composed of P. W.
Gates, R. E. Kell, and W. K. Pritchett, won
by a decision of three to nothing at Carolina.

graduating students when the speaker said
that if they were thinking of their work in
terms of the salary, of the prerequisites, the
privileges, or the prestige it carries, then
“you are just an old-fashioned antiquated
king.”

Turning then to the captains, Professor
Foreman declared that a captain won his
spurs, that he had been through the mill,
knew his business, and won his position on
merit. “A captain loves his work. He does
{not retire until he is retired. The reward of
,a successful captain is not a larger tent, but
a larger command. He works for what he
gets.”

| “Leadership in the world, the finest re-
wards of life, are never for the men to
whom the sweetest music in the world is the
noon-day whistle,” averred the speaker.
“The rewards of life are for the man whose
heart is really in his work, who is actually
on the job. Great achievements are not made
; by men who. insist on an eight-hour day, but
by an Edison who works two shifts all his
life. Mastery of nature is not won by
gardeners who keep praying it will rain so
they can quit work, but by the Burbanks who
devote their entire lives to the study and the
service of nature.”

In drawing conclusions this popular pro-
fessor at Davidson said that building the
Kingdom of God is the one great task of
the captains—greater than any work, greater
than all tasks. “That men shall become God-
like and that the world shall become heav-
en-like—there is nothing higher,” he said.

“The Kingdom of God sweeps the kings
away, into the limbo of dead mistakes. In
that realm there is room for but one king.
But when ie kings are gone come to call
for the captains. The Captain of our salva-
tion needs men—men who will win their way
and earn their places, who have the joy of
the artist in work for the work's good sake,
who are willing to lose themselves that the
work may prosper, who can’ join hands in
honest friendship with men-of-tike aims in
other races and families, men who can look
beyond the work’s details and the work's
reward to the great end of all earth's serv-
ice—the star-domed city of God.”

an alumni secretary. A committee was ap-| —_ ws
pointed from the Alumni Association two |

years ago to discuss this matter and make |
report, but nothing definite has been done | ,
until recently. The board of trustees has {
already sanctioned the establishment of an!
alumni secretary at Davidson, provided the
necessary funds can be provided. |
It is expected that a concrete recommenda- |
tion will be made to the association at the |
luncheon, however, relative to the duties of |
the office, which it is believed will cover |
publicity and the handling of the records of
the alumni of Davidson, which at present is
inadequately done because the men in charge
of those records have other duties. All

those members of the class who have felt the
urge to service in literary pursuits. Debates
and orations have called a number of them
to make a good showing for Davidson.
Parker, Bowie, ~ Hollingsworth, RatcHfé?d,
Shaw, Pullen and others have shown a mark-
ed proficiency.

The class has shown its aptitude for every
endeavor that it has engaged upon. It has
made its visible impression upon the life of
the campus and its going will be keenly felt
by those who have come to know the tfue

Picture of Georgia Dormitory, which
point of Davidson campus. Georgia dormitory has h

gentlemen who make up this Senior class.

habjtat there this year.

was selected because it is now the Geatral
d some notable men in

its day, and some of the most prominent men of the Senior class have had their

Nine Honorary Degrees Are Conferred On
Widely Known Men by Board of Trustees

Men Who Have Made Notable
Record in Life Selected at
Mid-Winter Session

Nine honorary degrees will be conferred
by Davidson College Wednesday morning at
the final exercises of the commencement pro-
gram, these being announced last February
following the mid-winter. meeting of the
board of trustees of Davidson College. Three
of the degrees of doctor of divinity, four
doctor of laws, one doctor of pedagogy, and
one doctor of sciences. All of the men hon-
ored are prominent in their various lines of
activity.

Doctor of divinity degrees will be con-
ferred upon Rev. W. R. Coppedge, of Rock-
ingham, who has done a notable work in the
small churches of the state, and has worked
consistently along educational lines; Rev.
L. L. Little, of Kiangyin, China, for 20 years
a missionary in that foreign country, doing
commendable work; and Rey. J. E. Purcell.
of Chattanooga, Tenn., executive chairman
of the men of the Southern Presbyterian As-
sembly,

The four men who will receive degrees of
doctor of laws are C. E. Diehl, of Memphis,
Tenn., president of Southwestern, which was
formerly known as Southwestern Presbyte-
rian College, located at Clarksville, Tenn. ;
John R. Todd, of New York, head of a
great engineering concern; Col! Wade H.
Harris, of Charlotte, editor of The Ob-
server, and for over 50 years connected with
newspaper work, his work being particularly
constructive to the Piedmont section; and
Hon. A. M. Scales, of Greensboro, lawyer
and financier of that city, head of the $1,000,-
000 drive of Presbyterian institutions in
North Carolina several years ago, and the
speaker who will deliver the literary address
tomorrow morning.

Prof. M. C..S. Noble, dean of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina department of
education, and father of the psychology and
education professot at Davidson the past
school year, will be given a degree of doctor
of pedagogy. A doctor of science degree
will be awarded to Dr. A. J. Crowell, of
Charlotte, head of the Crowell Clinic, which
is one of the largest in the South. Dr.
Crowell’s methods as a surgeon has gained
international reputation.

ty

FOUR SENIORS MAKE OVER
98 PER CENT

Announcement was made a week ago by
F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, that four mem-
bers of the Senior class had made a record
for the past year which can well merit the
characterization of phenomenal, that number
of the present graduation class making a
percentage of above 98 for their nine-months’
course.

R. W. Graves led the list with 98.70 per
cent, followed by A. H. Hollingsworth with
98.49, while R. B. Parker and H. L. Shaw
averaged 98.16. There are a number of stu-
dents who were known to average above 95
per cent, but this has not been released yet.

Perhaps the most unusual in the group of
four above is Graves. ‘ For the first semester
he averaged 98.75, and but for an excess
number of excused absences would have
averaged 99.35 for the last semester, which
is considered one of the best ever made.
Even with his handicap he led the class.

The record of the class as a whole for the
past year is better than that of any class
previously finishing at Davidson, the general
average going well over 90. For the first
semester 54 of the 94 averaged above 90
per cent, and when final compilations are
made for the last semester it is believed that
this record will be shatered.

MEDALS TO BE GIVEN AT
SENIOR EXERCISES

The college will award several medals
at commencement to the men who have
shown ability in the respective lines.

The Alumni Association medal will be
awarded to the Freshman with the
highest scholastic average for the year.
This medal was won by D. H. Howard
last year. j

The Senior orator’s medal will be given
to the winner of the Senior oratorical
contest”on Monday night; the Junior
orator’s medal being awarded to W. H.
Branch. :

The William Banks Biblical medal will
be awarded to the Senior who has the
record in Biblical lines. Several mem-
bers of the class stand close in the race
for this medal.
