4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 11, 1926

The Davidsonian
"Mane of North Cartna Collate Pre
ssociation

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published We

ekly by the Students of Davidson College
a

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH...--------.--- Editor-in-Chief

HAROLD D. BURKE....-..---------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. BRANCH...

Managing Editor
cditor

L. D WHARTO -Assistant Managing E

F, K, BEL... . Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. .-Athletic Editor
R. B. KE -Associate Editor

A. Y. ROWIE-.
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH.
R McMILLAN..

Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
-Humorous_ Editor
..--..-Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

eeaussecuce Business Manager
ant Business Manager
tant Business Manager

H. 3 ») ..-Circulation Manager
WITHERSPOO -Supscription Manager

E. L. UGLASS.. --------------Assistant
JULIAN LAKF...-. -Service Department
DPS ince nesta AS SIatant

M. P. CRA

WFOR

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. TT. T. JONES

V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. LL. LINGLE

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas. B, MARTIN ss
W. H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAINE
H. M_ AUSTIN J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. RRAGAW A, M. SPARROW
D. M CALHOUN J. G. WHARTON

W. T. COVINGTON TR. WILSON
W. T. DAVIS

‘ C. WITHERS
W. S. GGRDON Ww. S. WOOD
JOHN GWIN

EDITORIAL

Have a heart on St. Valentine’s Day!
D

We've always believed in Mr, Groundhog

until this year, but he’s done us wrong.
D—

Between now and those next exams there
is nothing to worry about except studies,
baseball, track, Junior Speaking girls, grad-
uating and studies.

D—

Have you bought a little valentine to send
to your mother? She will appreciate it and
love you more for it than any girl you
know. Try it.

The old-fashioned boy that used to go
back tothe farm to pay off the mortgage,
now goes back to teach Grandpa the Char-
leston.

D

Certain students-—in fact all of us—have
sorely missed the various and sundry girls’
glee clubs that were wont to come to our
college. There were several last year but
as for this, we haven’t heard a feminine
squeak. We like opera just grand, but for
real singing, give us a chorus of Southern
beauties with liquid voiges that get right
down to the bottom of a fellow’s being.

Felix, the wildcat, has been suffering late-
ly from an attack of melancholia. As Bret
Harte said, he will rise to explain. He is
not a he, but a she. Charlie, valet de luxe,
of our ferocious, fighting feline, apprised us
of this momentous fact soon after we blared
forth her name as Felix. Thoughtlessness
on our part, of course. So, in order to
rectify all past mistakes, we hereby re-
christen the cat Felicia and we hope that the

young lady will not hold us guilty. Fair
Felicia, the fawn-like feline from far-off
Florida.

HIGHER GRADES

A kind friend of The Davidsonian has
called our attention to a statement made in
last week’s issue ‘relative to the high grades
that have been recently made by certain
members oft he Senior class. :

Although the high grades made are cred-
itable andthe friends of the men rejoice in
their scholarship and industry, it is but fair
to members of former classes to mention
some of the records made in years gone by.
No records have been made either this year
or last. ;

In a fairly recent class, five men made an
average throughtout their Senior year of
98.83, and three of them made a four-year
average of 98.95. The record likely to
stand, however, is held by the class of 1869,
in which twelve men made a four-year

record of 97.31. :

This statement is not made with any idea
of detracting from the richly-deserved merit
of the Seniors of this year, but only in jus-
tice to those of other years. High scholar-
ship has been one of Davidson’s traditions,
and extremely high grades have not been
infrequent.

A VALENTINE

It was a little fairy heart of frilled lace
and. silvery sheen that started our thoughts
winging. hack to a certain Valentine day
years ago when we received one of those in-
nocent expressions of young love, Shining
through the big plate glass window, it
looked for all the world like one that once
held the handwriting of a little girl who
wore long black curls, and who affixed our
name witha slight tremor beneath the ging-
ham dress.

Who dares say that they were not the
days of real sport? The world seemed even
twice as large and fair as it does today. The
times when we played free as a Spring lamb
heneath budding trees; when the birds sang
sweeter and the earth was tremulous to
one’s footsteps. How delightful it was to
loll alongside the creek that skirted the
clover pasture, and where fishing was a
pleasure.

There was the little curly-haired girl that
caused so much boyish heart-ache, although
a young mind failed to discern the reason.
Her voice was like the sound of faint music,
to be treasured in one’s memory.

It is said that one begins to get old, when
he dreams of and longs for the times that
have passed. But to us, such a state of mind
seems more to partake of the satisfaction, of
the present. Only those who are so ab-
sorbed in the business of the future and are
so intent on securing a portion of this
world’s goods refuse to allow themselves the
privilege of letting the mind rove back to
younger days when all things were beauti-
ful.

It is no sign of weakness nor of senti-
mentality. Men who have become great,
as this world counts greatness, think of
their childhood days in terms of their pres-
ent development. They treasure the mem-
ories that pass before them as they think of
the happy-yvears when the world was young
and love was all, Only narrow minds that
look only straight ahead, think such is fool-
ish. And men who have been called foolish
by those around them, have accomplished
worthy things in this world.

And thus, such a stream of talk arising
from a single little valentine that glistened
in the sun from a show window,

PRACTICAL CHRISTIANITY

Out ofallthe stirring words that we heard
issue from the lips of Mr, Wilson who was
here last week, not any impressed us more
than those simple ones which told that real
Christianity is not to be found in a set of
ideals, however high they may be, but in a
service to humanity that transcends all
dogmas and teachings.

There is such a thing as idealism without
practical results from the application of the
lesson learned. And there is the simple,
steadfast trust in a higher power and a de-
votion to one’s fellow men that makes a life
radiate happiness and joy. Too many reli-
gions have stressed the outward form and
pomp of embellished ceremony. They
glossed over inconsistencies with dogmas
and isms that sounded well but were rarely
lived out. :

If no futile efforts of ours can in one way
help God, then it is only by service to our
fellow human heings that we can recom-
pense the Power who gave us life and being.
The command of Christ to “go and do thou
likewise,” contains the essence of what we
call Christianity. We are not fooled. by
those who observe the outward forms. and
look not into the inner self.

It is worth while for Davidson men to
have the opportunity to hear a man like Mr.
Wilson, and we hope that he will soon come
again.

AN OPEN MIND

An article in the January number of Har-
per’s lamented the fact that the people of
the United States were literally like chil-
dren in most of their habits of living. At
first this seemed preposterous and evem hu-
morous, but the author clinches his state-
ments with facts that no one can deny.

He says that we show our childishness in
every thing that we do. Our following after
fashion’s beck and call is merely an attempt
to outdo another, not purely a means of
self-gratification in the method of clothing
one’s self. We dress alike and fear to be
different for the same reason that the child
fears to be pointed out by his playmates as
being dressed different from the rest. Our
changing fads and fancies are like the toys
and bauble that a child picks up with de-
light and soon wearies of. Our peevishness
at things of no consequence and our disre-
gard of thing worth while are even as the
child’s.

Sut it is with the fact of narrow-minded-
ness that we are most concerned. A child
who has reached the gang.age of tlevelop-
ment hoots and jeers with the rest of the
crowd. He can see only that little side
pointed out to him by his fellows. So it is
with us. Bombastic as the author’s charges

|
|

|
|
|
|
|

“has at last spoken.

Open Forum

“THE SILENT SPORTSMAN”

Known throughout: the entire state as a man of
few words, as “the silent coach,” Monk Younger
And such a speech he has
has made through the columns of The Davidson-
For his message comes not as a boast for
some victory won, nor as an alibi for some defeat
handed to his cohorts. It tells not of the
points of some sport, well qualified as he is to
tell of such things. His message strikes at the
heart of Davidson athletics. He has spoken
sportsmanship. And perhaps he will
known as “the silent sportsman.”

ian!

fine

ot

now be

Coach Younger in handing his short page of
suggestions to THe Davidsonian said that it was
through no desire to complain of the attitude of
the Davidson students. He stated that there were
things done at the Davidson games that were un-
sportsmanlike, but added that he thought all such
unintentional arisingfrom  cither
carelessness or, in some isolated cases, ignorance
of what sportsmanship is.

actions were

Coach Younger was fair enough to also state
that the ideas were not all original with him;
that they expressed his sentiments and he wished
to pass them along.

On page six, column two can be found the words
of Coach Younger.

student at Davidson; and that they be incor-
porated into the spirit (and not the laws of the
student body.

Last fall one ofthe State’s
the Davidson football team “the most gallant
corp of football players seen on Emerson field.”
It might be well that the student body as a whole
endeavor to place its sportsmanship on a par
with that of both its coach and its team.

lL. D. WHARTON, JR.

best papers called

may be, we cannot deny that we close our
minds to evident truths when we care not
to seek the light. We follow superstitions
and cling to phobias with a determination
that marks not our attention.to progress.
Our vision is narrowed by what other peo-
ple thing, or what we think they will think
of us. We decry radicalism and down it
without to see whether or not it contains
some germ of truth. Our religion is biased,
and our education is limited because we do
not have open and receptive minds.

Perhaps one could have no greater gift as
far as this world’s goods are concerned,
than to have’ a mind that is open to the
truth, and one that sees the other side of a
question as well as his own. We decry in-
tolerance but for most of us, it is an in-
visible harrier between us and the truth, On
the various theories of evolution and reli-
gion, we.try to blind ourselves to seeming
evident facts because we have been reared
to believe that good enough is good enotgh.
Narrow-mindedness breeds the ignorance
and superstitution with which we are bur-
dened,

When we come to open our minds so that
we can see more than one side of a question,
then we will have advanced far. When we
learn how to weigh the truth with an im-
partial mind and apply it to problems that
confront us; then we cease to regard those
whase thoughts and actions lie not with the
common herd, then we can call ourselves as
beings who have risen above mere childish-
ness.

Minor Chords

REVERIES
DAWN
The sky is flecked aith wreath-like mists.
And in the dim, fresh, fragrant light,
Still half-clothed in the robes of night,
The western stors are only wisps,

ary

Readivaing still with tendrils deep
Until the dawn-wind, sweetly, slowly,
From its refuge, safe and holy

Rrings to their heavy eyelids sleep.

SUNSET
The sun, a gleaming golden ball,
Left its course—began to fall.
And sank into the silent stream.

It floated a while, its burning rays
Dissolved, and made a golden mase.
The river shone with a solar gleam.

The limbs and leaves of a sycamore
Serenely glowed, as oft before
And from the woods came night-bird calls.

The colors faded—merged in one,
The sun near gone, the day near done—
I heard a love song in the falls.
—B. F. M.

It might be well that they be ~*
read with care; that they be pondered by every -

| for the spring term.

NPAT IS EEO TTY
1. AD BE Fb has Pb a

LZ 3 PEO LOSIIEDL
DD EILS ODD AB LS ee WP Hh

The following is a confidential letter from a
freshie on the Hill to his old buddie back in Dumb-
fudgett Hollow, N. C.: t

Dear Percival,

Boy, I sure am having a big time at school.
Wish you were up here to run around with me.
You know nobody don't make you stay at home
and study up here, so. T go to see the girls nearly
every night. It sure is a fine life. kid. You had
better come on up with me.

Last week I wenit™apto Catawba College to see
the sweetest little weenie that ever bobbed her.
hair. Her name is Jessie Mildred. IT would tell
you the rest of her name but T am afraid you
might write to her and beat my time. TI wrote her
a long letter the same night I got back and signed
it, "Yours if vou want me.” But I am afraid she
didn’t want hasn’t answered it
vet.

me because she

Oh yes, and I went up to Mooresville last Sun-
day night to see another cute girl, and she said
I reminded her of the sheik in the picture show
the night before. That sure did make me feel
good, We didn’t get in till after one o'clock Sun-
day night, but that didn’t matter, as I didn’t have
to take off my shoes to keep from waking all the
home folks up.

T sure do like all the ladies up her, and round
abouts, and T go to see so many that they call me
a “devil with the ladies.”

Well, I must quit as T have to study my war and |
then go get the laundry for a couple of sophs.

Write me a letter soon, and tell me how Callie
Flukers and all my other old sweethearts are get-
ting on.

Your old bud,

JOHNNYTHAN SMITH.

DAVIDSONIAN’S DANCE HALL

No, it isn’t a line of bull, for Davidson has a
dance hall. It is located on the Third Floor of
East, ‘way back up in the last corner, almost, and
it isn’t safe to go up there without a gun and
about three dollars. You may get back, but you
won't have the three dollars or any cartridges

left. All of the upperclassmen pose as the “men,”

and all of the fresh have to be the “ladies.” They
say that the freshies can dance so well their part
that the “men” think they are leading a calf
around with a rope. The Davidsonian sent re-
porter. up. there’ Sunday to get the dope on the
dive. They dived him out of the window. He
may live a week or two yet. ;

They are so hardboiled up there that they use
coils of barbed wire for chair cushions, and drink
ground glass beer for a beverage. Make ’em a
visit, fellows, but take out a couple of thousand
extra in life insurance before you ascend the
stairs. It might also be a good idea to tell your
best buddie what kind of flowers you prefer, and
to arrange for the music.

ILS NE PASSERONT PAS '

Special News Item: Bo McMillan, prominent
member of the Davidson student body has. finally
passed off Fresh math. This feat was done in the
record time of three years, thus breaking the
former records of Ben Franklin and Shorty
Howell. Mr. McMillan when interviewed in his
Main Street apartment spoke very modestly of
his astounding success, and atributed his triumph
to persistence and asperin tablets. It has also
been rumored that another go-getter has learned
to sing songs in a foreign language after steady
practice for a little over two and a half years. The
reporter could not ascertain the veracity of this
last, however.

A COLD SHOULDER

Here is a little poem that may be dedicated to
the butcher's daughter “who fasses out cold
shoulders:

Roses are red,

Violets are blue;
If icewater is hot,
Then so are you.

AND A CLUB SANDWICH

The Washington Club held a very important
meeting last Monday night at the Student Store.
The purpose ofthis meeting was to elect officers
The following were unani-

' mously chosen:

Wade Allison, President.

W. H. Allison, Vice-President.

Handsome Allison, Secretary-Treasurer.

Wade H. Allison, Financial Committee Chmn.

After the business meeting the club enjoyed a
delightful feed consisting of an eskimo pie and an
orange. ‘
