THEDAVI SONIAN —

Deus A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. ro JANUARY 14, 1926

DAVIDSON'S

GREATEST

SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
FOR DEBATING TEAM

Teams From Five Sta States Engaged—
University of Pittsburgh at David-
son While Wildcats Go to
Sewanee—Three Others

In early April the varsity debating team
will open the heaviest schedule in the his-
tory of the college with a meet with Wake
Forest. Though the above debate is yet
pending it will probably be held in Raleigh
on the Ist of April. Following in close or-
der come Pittsburg at Davidson on the 5th,
William and Mary at Davidson on the 20th,
Presbyterian College at Rock Hill on the
27th, and to end up the season the University
of the South will be met in Sewanee, Tenn.,
on the 30th.

In arranging such an unusually heavy sched-

ule the Forensic Council has taken into con-
sideration the fact that seven varsity men
have returned to school besides numerous
Sophomores from last year’s Freshman
teams. In order that the most worthy of
these may have an opportunity to show their
ability a rather long schedule is necessary.

In meeting Wake Forest in Raleigh a
good meet is promised. Davidson defeated
Wake Forest last year in Davidson. The
team was composed of Roland Parker, Yan-
cey Bowie and Don Wharton, all of whom
are back in school this year. In the Uni-
versity of Pittsburg an unknown quantity
will be met; however, it is to be assumed
that they will have an excellent team. They
will be met in Davidson on the 5th of April.
William and Mary will likewise be met in
Davidson on the 20th. Although this is their
first appearance on the Davidson card, the:r
renown as the second oldest college in the
country is well known and no doubt competi-
tion will be keen.

The next contest, that with Presbyterian
College in Rock Hill, will probably be the
most sought after by the various debaters,
this debate {s to be held at Winthrop Col-
lege, on neutral grounds. P. C. was defeated
here last year 4-1. Perhaps one of the best
trips to be made by the debaters will Ie that
to Sewanne, Tenn. On this trip the Univer-
sity of the South, otherwise known as Sc-
wanee, will be met for the first time.

Preliminaries for both the varsity teams
and the Freshman teams will be held about
three weeks after the exams, as soon is the
subjects for debate have been agreed upon

(Continued on page 5)

All Boxing Meets
Barred d by Faculty

After careful consideration of the matter
the college authorities have decided that it
is inadvisable for the boxing team to take
part in meets with other institutions. This
was decided only after the matter had been
thoroughly discussed and probed. Dr, Mar-
tin has as yet made no official announcement
before the student body, but it is understood
that Captain Elkins, who has been coaching
the team, has been informed of this action.

This has been the first year that any at-
‘tempt has been made to organize a boxing
team at Davidson, and it was hoped that
matches could be arranged with other schools.
The recent action on the matter has aroused
keen disappointment among the followers of
the sport and those who have been arduously.
working to perfect themselves in the game.
It is hoped by these that their activity may
be continued at Jeast as an inter-mural sport.
Captain Elkins has proven himself to be an
excellent coach and many of the boys have
shown marked ability with the gloves. It is
understood that practite is being continued
and it is hoped that some form of match may
be arranged so that the students may be able
to see the boys in action.

;as hostess.

Covington Elected
to Lead Freshmen

In the Freshman election for president of
the class, held last Monday night right after
supper, J. R. Covington was elected on the
second ballot over I. Kell, Pascagula,
Miss. The race was a very close one, as the
vote will show. The vote was 100 to 96 for
Covington, Others nominated were N. Mey-
ers, of Greensboro; I. Riggs McConnell, of
Davidson; R. O. Flynn, of Atlanta; John
T. Roddey, of Rock Hill; S. M. Black, of
Davidson; G. R. Graham, Hamlet; S. Wil-
liams, All except Covington and Kell were
eliminated in the first ballot, and Covington
won over Kell in the second.

Bob Covington is from Raeford, N. C.,,
and is the second of the Covington brothers
attending Davidson at this time. His broth-
er, W. T. Covington; was president of last
year’s Sophomore class, and is one of the
outstanding men of the campus. Covington
was out for Fresh football all fall, and while
he did not win his DC, he fought for a place
on the team every afternoon, and his efforts
were rewarded by his getting in several of
the games. He has been one of the out-
standing men of his class, and bids fair to
achieve further greatness. He is pledged to

R.

the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, while |

Keel is pledged to the Delta Theta Chi fra-
ternity.

Quips and Cranks Staff
Report Great Progress

Work on Year Book Advancing
Rapidly—Many Sections
Completed

Progress on the 1926 Quips and Cranks,
according to Editor-in-Chief H. L. Shaw, ts
advancing on schedule. With a large portion
of the preliminary material submitted to the
engraver before the Christmas holidays and
the remainder to be ready in the near future,
the annual staff fecl certain that this year
the year book will appear on May Ist, as has
been planned.

The photographer from White's, of New
York, will return the first week in February
to take pictures of the basketball and
wrestling teams. Certain other organiza-

tions have also been given appointments as |

well as a number of individuals, Juniors and
Seniors, who failed to have their photographs
taken during the fall session.

The literary department of the Quips and
Cranks, under the direction of R. W. Graves,
and the athletic section, prepared by L. D.
Wharton, have practically completed their
portion of the work. Business Manager L.
L. Deck reports favorable progress on the

business side of the annual and feels assured °

of the financial success of the publication.

The Book Lovers’ Club met on Friday
afternoon with Miss Kathryne Douglas
A most interesting feature
was a paper read by Miss Lizzie Young.

The Woman’ Auxiliary will hold its
annual Praise Service on Thursday eve-
ning in the basement of the church. A
most cordial invitation is extended
the girls and women of the church.

5]

Misses Sophie Richards,
White and Mary Hamilton, of Converse
College, spent the holidays at the home
of their parents.

Mr. Billie White, of the United States
Naval Academy, was home for the holi-
days.

to

Nina Holt |@ February 16—Furman, at Greenville.

Presentation of Three .

One-Act Plays Features |
Friday Night’s Program

One Play Written by Professor
Erwin, While Smith and Brown
Are Other Authors

NO FALSE ALARM

Plays Are of Fantastic and Comedy
Type, But None of Modern
Realism

The first ates presentation of any work
by the Davidson Dramatie Club will be made
Friday evening, January 15th, in) Shearer
Hall, when the club will present three one-
act plays. .

The three plays were written by members
of the club, and each is considered superlative
to any that have been given in past years.
The cast has been carefully selected from the
club members, and all is in readiness for the
curtain to be drawn down on Friday evening.

The first play was written by Prof,

Erwin, and is entitled “A Little Bleeding.”

The story concerns the bending of Mrs.
Obedience Mortley by Roderick Stewart, a
Tory, and the complications that ensue

therefrom,

The cast is as follows:
Colonel Motley Sar
Robert Lindsey ~-------__--
' Roderick Stewart

--- Ben Ratehford
Henry Powell
Val Guthrey

WitllReeee Soe Sere aes Tyree Dillard
StOVG gees See yar 2 John McNeely
IMTS MGUY tee season ices Johnsie Shelton

Mary Lindsay —----- Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld

The second play is entitled “Tailor Made,”
and is by Frederick Smith. The cast for
this play has been selected as follows:

Bob Weston — Frank Wilkinson
Iebb Pashly —-- Frederick Smith
Captain Billy Harwood Linton Deck
| Dorothy Grayson Ruth Erwin
Betty Park Sarah Thompson

The final play is by Wood Brown. This
one-act play is entitled “The Conqueror of
‘the Gods.” The scene is laid in a heathen
‘temple in ancient Babylon, The plot centers
around the strife between ancient supersti-
tions and science. The cast for this play is
as follows:

BhiGStpwees ree eee -- H. M. Austin
Astronomer ~-.------------. S. W. Brown
HitstaGuandessase snes Herman Campbell

Robert Brittian
BinstReasantwsss. cose T. Jones
Second Peasant C. F. Monk

These compose the best set of plays that
| (Continued on page 5)

Second Guard

TWO GAMES BEFORE
EXAMS!

: With four games finished, the bas-
ketball team faces a schedule of 13
more contests. Concord Y, Salisbury
Y, Duke and N. C. State have been
played, and with the exception of
Salisbury return games have been en-
gaged with each, all to take place away
from home.
The schedule for the remainder of
the season follows:
January 19—Wofford, at Davidson.
January 19—Hampden-Sidney, at Da-
vidson.
February 2—Concord Y, at Concord.
February 6—Guilford, at Davidson.
Undetermined—Charlotte Y, at Char-
lotte.
February 13—Furman, at Davidson.
February 15—Clemson, at Clemson.

February 17—Wofford, at Spartan-
burg.

February 20—N. C. State, at Raleigh.

February 22—Duke, at Durham.

February 23—Carolina, at Chapel Hill.

February 27—Citadel, at Davidson.

Dis Us

WILDCATS WIN CLOSE
GAME FROM DUKE BUT
FALL BEFORE TECHMEN

Dr. Harding Talks
in Northern City

Reading a highly interesting paper before
the American Philological Association, the
oldest organization of its kind in’ America,
this meeting being. the fifty-seventh session,
Dr. Richard Harding, professor of Greek at
Davidson College, illustrated the parallelism
of Greek and modern
notably Inglish,

The meeting of this noted association was
held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Decem-
her 29-31, Holding their sessions in conjune-
tion with the Philological
two other national organizations, the Archae-
ological Institute of America and the College
Art Association of America,

Speaking on “Greek Grammar Hlustrated
From the Modern Newspaper,” at the after-
noon session of the opening day, Dr. Harding
made an effort to show the parallelism: be-
tween the Greek language of old with that of
modern English and other — widespread
tongues, The speaker stressed the point that
some clever utterances could be
when transitions were made from the origi-

several

Association were

retained

nal to a foreign tongue.
He stated the

expression came,

directly from the Greek; adding that
(Continued on page 5)

certain English idiomatic

Usage,

Editor’s Exit Causes
Resignation of Staff

Much Interest Aroused in South
Over Magazine Question at
Davidson

On Monday morning T. C. Barr notified
the student body that the faculty of the col-

lege refused to recognize him as editor of |

the Davidson College Magazine. At the same
time the staff of the Magazine submitted
their unconditional reisgnation, accompanying
this by a vigorous set of resolutions clarify-
ing their position to the student body.

Former editor Barr was elected to this po-
sition by the student body shortly before the
Christmas holidays to succeed C. F, Monk,
who had been deposed by the faculty
result of anaonymous articles entitled
“Dim Morning,” which was featured in the
Thanksgiving issue of the Magazine. At the
time of Monk’s expulsion from, office the
staff of the Magazine, of which T. C. Barr
was a member, being exchange editor, and in-
cidentally author of the feature “Dim
Morning,” was nominated for editor-in-chief
and later unanimously elected to this office
by the students.

Although the resignation the staff,
though coming as a complete surprise to the
student body, was welcomed with a “
applause” by the students. The present de-
velopments place the Magazine in a_pre-
carious plight,

as a

an

story

of

round of

complications, the students seem to think its ,

discontinuance inevitable.

The whole topic is a subject of keen in-

terest to the students of the college and the |

‘alumni at large.
wide publicity through the newspapers of the
| South, It has received wide comment in
| editorial columns, both favorably and other-
| wise.

i}

| The members of the Thelamite Club
| were guests of Mrs. J. W. McConnell at
ie pary~held Monday evening in: their
home in honor of Dr. McConenll’s birth-
day. Col. Rowell, of Atlanta, head of
the R. O. T. C, in the fourth corps area,
was the out of town guest.

languages, |

in theory and in practical |

indeed, as a result of these |

The affair has also gained |

levis Quint t: Opens North Caro-
lina Basketball With One Point
Victory Over Methodists—
State Wins 32-24 Monday
Night

Coach Younger’s basketball team) opened
up the North Carolina intercollegiate basket-
hall season by defeating the Duke University
five 32-31 here Friday night, but fell before
the fast passing team from North Carolina
State on the following Monday. Both games
were highly interesting, Davidson leading
throughout the first narrow margin,
while in the latter the Wildeats fought
valiantly to overcome the Jead established
early in the game by State.

The Waldeat quintet the Duke
University tive for the first game of this year
last Friday night. It was a fast and exciting
contest in which the Was no cer-
tainty at any time during the game, After
the first few minutes of the game the Wild-
cats took the lead and never Jost it or
tied from then on although Duke came within
one or two points several. times,

Huie, playing left forward for the Wild-
cats, started things going when he dropped
in a two pointer from a distant position on
the floor. Duke soon registered a field goal
and free shot) which put them one
point in the lead. The Wildcats then pro-
ceeded to take the lead and they held it for
the rest of the game. It was a game full of
thrills, especially as the last period was be-

by a

took on

outcome

were

a

coming short and the score was standing
close,
The game was a closely contested and a

For the Wildcats Huie was high
registering a total of 10° points

clean one,
point man,

and playing a good game throughout. An-
derson, playing @& right guard, at the same
time rolled up eight points. Hartness, for

Duke,
floor

proved to be a very able man on the
and at making counters and was the
bright light for Duke. Moss and Bullock
shared honors with Hartness for outstanding
playing. Much can be said of Ben Wilson's
work at center for the Wildcats. The big
boy gets the tip-off and he has what it takes
to get the ball away from the goal of the
Captain. “Flake” Laird
right there against Duke.

opposition, was

Duke showed great ability in forming her
defense quickly and that held the Wildcats
much in check. Both teams were unable to

(Continued on page 5)

*Y”? Cabinet Makes
Plans for Spring

Miciyae Mi GAY
ward with no little
complishment of real work and much good
during the second semester. It'is the inten-
tion of each member of the cabinet to devote
more time and effort to their respective de-
partments in carrying out the plan outlined
| for the coming months.

Cahinet is looking for-
expectation to the ac-

Aside from the regular program carried
|out by the Y. M. C. A. on the campus there
lare several other tasks in view. Plans are
j}under way for mission study classes to be
jconducted in the spring for six or eight
These classes will be in charge of
K. Regen.

| weeks,
and supervised by FE.

On February 21st Dr. D. H. Ogden, of
Mobile, Ala., will come to lead the Life
Work services which will last for four days.
Dr. Ogden comes highly recommended and
well known to many of the students. As-
sisting Dr. Ogden in the services will be the
Columbia Seminary Quartet, which will
render a varied program of music, appropri-
ate tw ‘the services. As there are 236 men
or nearly half of the student body undecided
as to what shall be their life work, the “Y”

(Continued on page 5)

