THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
a v
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH............--. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. BRANCH......_....._........-------Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON. Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL-.-. Assistant Managing Editor
Wi Bi MTTON Soc ssiusssehs ca ukies sn doncecuen. Athletic Editor
R. B, PARKER Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE rer iate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH. Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN Editor
J. B. WEBB... -Alumni Editor
H. L. SHELBY- Editor

: “Exchange

H. D. -Busi Manag

W. H. -----.---Assistant Business Manager

Vv. S. -Assistant Business Manager

H. Y, ALEXANDER..................- Circulation Manager

E. D. S iption

E. L. A

JULIAN LAKE Service Department

MOP“ CRAWEORD2cccscceeieosis 225155 Meee ee Assistant
Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES

V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. L. LINGLE

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.B. MARTIN

W. _H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAINE

H. M AUSTIN J. P. McKNIGHT

C. L. BRAGAW A. M. SPARROW

D, M. CALHOUN uF . WHARTON

W. T. COVINGTON . WILSON

W. T. DAVIS C. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS

JOHN GWIN J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

Junior Speaking and the girls!

D
One will have to sit up late to see the
moon rise these nights — but then who
cares?
D

The present staff will have charge of the
paper for only two more issues and it will
then release its hold to that of the newly-
elected staff.

: D
The Davidsonian greets its little sister pub-
lication, SANITY RARE, which makes it
second bow to the world this week. It is
brim-full of healthy and. original humor.

The baseball team seems to be getting on
its legs at last after suffering a relapse of
several months. The track team’s looking
good also. :

-—D.

We haven’t had a chance to congratulate
Harllee Branch on his election to the editor-
ship of this paper. We feel ‘such that this
pen will continue on its present suc-
cessful career during the reign of this next
editor. , :

D
Echoes from the Ideal Girl contest. recent-
ly conducted here are being heard in divers
parts of the country. Carolina wrote us to
find out all about the proper- methods of in-
stigating a contest of this nature.

D
JUNIOR SPEAKING

Once again the cycle of days rolls around
and that gladsome time of the year is here
with us, Junior Speaking. Those visions of
loveliness about who mwe have dreamed for
many days have actually appeared here on
our campus and their presence have filled
our hearts with joy.

This is the one occasion during the year
when there is a wealth of social entertain-
ment for Davidson students who have been
denied such diversions during many bleak
months preceding. Even nature smiles in
her attempts to further the good times by
graciously bestowing blue skies and balmy
days.

There are some who bemoan the fact that
Davidson has so few advantages to offer in
a well rounded social life. It is true that
there are not those things here which pro-
mote so-called society, and non-fraternity
men, espcially, feel the lack of social centers
and places of recreation. But Junior Speak-
ing is meant just for that lack of social life

‘there during the remainder of the months.

We hope that there will be soon inaugura-
ted a social function of this type during the
fall months when football is in its ascend-
any. That is'the time when all feel the urge
to mingle with persons of the opposite sex.
But during this time of the glorious spring
days, one can make up for things he may
have missed before.

Greetings to the visitors.

|

|
!

|

GREETINGS, FAIR VISITORS

To all those southern belles who have
consented to grace our campus with
their beauty, The Davidsonian extends
its best greetings for this joyous
Springtime season.

It is at this time of the year that we
feel the creep of new blood in our veins
and we rejoice in the holidays that give
us a chance to throw off the solemn
mantle of winter severity and austere-
ness.

May there. be entertainment, fun,
happiness, pleasure and delightful com-
panionship in abundance.

Welcome to our midst.

SPRING

Spring is here.

Swirling water from melted snow fills
brooks and little ponds. The ground is soft
underfoot. From the tender blue sky above
comes the honk of the wild geese that make
a flying wedge of black above the green of
the pines. Their echo is heard by’the robin
as he eyes the clod with inquisitive eve and
searches for a worm.

The blue-bird flits from limb to twig,
its burnished red breast offering a con-
trast to the turquoise sheen of its back.
From the soft mass of pink peach blossoms
comes the cheery tweet of the wren as she
seeks a new nesting site. A petal sifts to
the ground and a new lamb gives chase. A
dandelion struggles for recognition among
the showy purple of the violets.

Warm sun on the freshly-turned soil—a
delicious haze on the distant woods—the
scent of a blossoming pear tree—cackling
hens in the yard—flying golf balls on the
green—garden catalogs in the mails—fish-
ing-tackle in’ the windows—tow lovers
strolling down the lane arm in arm—a full
moon touching the eastern hill with silver—
a quivering breeze from the orchard, laden
with a perfume that intoxicates one more
than old wine

Spring is here.

DRAMATICS

There is a crying need for a course in
Dramatics at Davidson. The local organiza-
tion known as the Davidson Dramatic Club
is doing a good work with the poor advan-
tages that it has, but the interest in. this
work is high enough to warrant an expan-
sion. The organization here has little more
than a name and a number of enthusiastic
members who are willing to sacrifice their
time for the advancement of dramatic work.

One has but to see the results of Professor
Koch’s work at Carolina to realize that such
endeavor is leavingl a very real impression
upon all with whom it has come in contact.
The players there have advertised both their
university and their state.

Davidson has the talent and the enthu-
siasm necessary to write and produce as
good plays as any the Playmakers have ever
presented. But we do need a course in play-
writing and stagecraft here, and a full time
director who can train and instruct those
who have this work at heart.

ELECTIONS

Something is radically wrong when only
four hundred men out of ‘almost six hun-
dred cast votes at a student body election.
Such was the case at the election held last
Saturday morning to choose the editor for
The Davidsonian of next year.

Is the trouble in the lack of interest or in
pure, unadulterated laziness? Those who
didn’t vote when there were ballots at hand,
and when the names had been given as plain
as could be—well, we wonder how they will
get along when they have to shift for them-
selves and there is no one to pull the wires.

‘\ vote here means as much as it does any-
Where. Everyone has this privilege of help-
ing to choose the leaders here, and everyone
should take full advantage of it. You owe
it to your fellow students and to the college
to vote wisely. Do that thing in the few
remaining elections that are to be held.

Only two more months or a little more
to go and about a hundred Seniors will leave
Davidson pfter a four years’ sojourn. We
wonder if they have gotten their education
yet, or have they more to come to them?

D:

If the people who danced the square
dance were square, and the people who
danced the shimmy were shaky, please tell
us what’s wrong with the folks who’ve
taken to the Charleston.

The latest thing on the Davidson campus.

with which to entertain visiting young
ladies is the game of marbles. Knuckle
down is the order of the day, now.

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Open Forum

L.

Recently the athletic authorities of Davidson
have inaugurated the policy of assigning junior
managers in one sport to junior managership in
another sport, after’their failure to be elected to
the senior managership of their respective sport.

This policy has been severely censured by the
majority of the campus leaders, Moreover, jun-
ior managers in every major sport at Davidson,
on being interviewed, have objected strenuously to
this method. They consider that a junior manager
that has failed to be elected senior manager in his
sport should drop out entirely andnot attempt to
compete with a man who has worked three years
in his respective sport and thus cut him out of
his opportunity to be elected. senior manager.
The four varsity or major sports at Davidson are
supposed to be on an equal basis and should be
viewed in that light, and just why, when a man
has been eliminated from one sport, they should
place him in another sport, thus putting him on
an equal with the junior managers of that sport
that have worked three years to reach their posi-
tions, is what is so severly criticized by the ma-
jority of the students. They do not like: this
method because they consider when a man has
worked three years in one sport, he, and he alone,
should be considered for the senior managership,
and not a man who has failed to be elected senior
manager in his sport.

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH.

Inquiring Reporter

Q. Do'you think that it would be of any ad-
vantage to have regular dances in the gymnasium
chaperoned by faculty members and their wives?

A. Caldwell Withers: It is by all means ad-
visable. It is the one thing that practically ev-
ery member of the student body would be inter-
ested in,

Pat Harmon: They ought to have dances down
there without any chaperones at all. Davidson
men ought to have honor enough to behave with-
out any supervision,

Harold Burke: I think so.

A. Yancy Bowie: I refuse to be quoted on the
subject. Well, I might as well have said some-
thing as have you put that down.

A. Hayden Hollingsworth: I do not, however,
there is a great deal of room for improvement in
social life on the campus.

C. G. Baskerville: I think it would be a great
social asset to the ‘college. ~

Hebe McIlwaine: I thihk it would be, but don’t
put this in The Davidsonian.

Bill McCuen: Absolutely.

Kenneth Bell: I think it would be a. good idea.
I can see no harm in college dances when prop-
erly chaperoned,

E. K. Regen: So far as social development of
men at Davidson, I think it would be good, be-
cause it’s far better than to have men leave the
campus to go to improperly chaperoned dances.

C. F. Smith: Yes, sir! Dancing under proper
conditions and properly chaperoned would pro-
vide social relaxation for men who dance and
who would otherwise go to various nearby towns
to attend dances.

Why not?

Minor Chords

SLANDER

O, Slander, thou goddess of infamy,

Rencath whose unforbearing feet,

My heart is crushed and ground to dust,

Unable to arise again from the depths of

Stinging sorrow to which it has been cast

By thy atrocious tyranny. ;

O unrelenting foe to life and love,

Withdraw thy incompassionate curse, ‘

That for one brief moment of respite,

This heart of mine might live again,

Beneath ‘the kindliness it once knew.

The sullen, ruthless, and stony-hearted

Prostitution of thy inexorable torture,

Has left this Life devoid of all emotions,

Has made of it a soulless nonetity,

Bankrupt of life and revolting against affection.

I prithee step aside once more, :

That I again may radiate the love,

I once felt for all mankind,

“Ind that I might again escape the gloomy darkness

Of my present agonising pain and destitution.
—Harllee Branch, Jr.

And it’s time too, to have that job for the
summer all fixed. When the first balmy
days of June roll along, the places will have
been mostly taken and nice openings for
young men will be scarce as ranchers in
Florida.

D:

These radio-fanciers who woo the ethereal
muse in the wee sma’ hours of the night are
not so much concerned with getting the
wrong.numbers as they are with wondering
what the wild waves will warble.

Advertisements

WHAT WE'D LIKE TO SEE—

The girls with a fisher body.

The most beautiful car in America,

The table that boiling water-won’t hurt.

The one out of five who doesn’t have it.

Coles Phillips’ model girl. .

The BULL DURHAM bull. -

Anything we'd walk a mile for.

The face of the Dutch Cleaner dame.

The man who stands up in his underwear at
the ball game, =

Mr. Addison Sims from Seattle.

Lydia E. Pinkham.

Yes, Hortense is a very questionable sort of girl.
She’s the kind who wants to know what the oth-
er 56-100 part of Ivory soap is.

A Saponaceous Affair

SAPOLIO, the big but beatueous buckaroo,
sighed as he stood outside the window of the
little FAIRY’S home in the gaudy moonlight. He
had freshly shaved and the lather hung in scin-
tillating globubles from his stubby Mennen’s beard.

The FAIRY came to the window as he called,
“Are you listening my little CUTICURA?”

“You must be off your IVORY, SAPOLIO,” she
said. “Of course I'm listening to by big butter
and yegg man.”

“Here's a CASHMERE BOUQUET for my lit-
tle BONCILLA,” he said, as he deftly threw a
bunch of cauliflower in her face?

“Aw, JERGEN,” she muttered
| mouthfuls of COLGATES.

He reached up to the window with his teeth

| clenched in a death-like grip. He sobbed audibly.

“Let me hold your PALMOLIVE. My life would

be BLACK AND WHITE without you. My heart
| is burning like LAVA for you. Let’s build a
' castile in old CASTILE where the dons and the

Juans fight the bulls. My little BON AMI, let’s

make a clean sweep ue

“LUX against us,” she blubbered as she freed
herself from his watery grasp. “We can never
put over a BIG DEAL until I ask GRANDPA’S
“permission.”

“Who? Old Hendrick Van Goort, the window
washer? Why I’m not afraid of that OLD
DUTCH CLEANSER. I'll kick him clean to
RESINOL.”

She fell into his heart and arms at the same
time. “Wait till I get a WOODBURY’S FACIAL,”
she said. They they silently compared unkissable
lips, PEBECO teeth and that school girl’s com-
plexion. :

between her

There’s a fat chance of a big, 300 pound Car-
nation Milk-fed hay and grain merchant ever re-
ducing so that he can sit comfortably behind the
steering wheel of a flivver.

The boy from the, old home town who learned
| how to play the accordion by note from a cor-
| respondence school in sixty days, also, learned
| how to raise three notes and to play the Bars and
| Stripes Forever in durance vile.

Famous Sayings
AW RATS—The Pied Piper of Hamelin.
|! IS If HOT ENOUGH FOR YOU?—Dante.
| ALL ALONE—Robinson Crusoe.
COMING CLEAN—Lady Godiva.
OH BOY !—Eve.
DAD BURN IT!—Nero.

OH-—Say, do you know Miss Orange?
BOY—Yes. I’ve got quite a crush on her.

| She—I heard you were in the trousers business?
What's the latest dope on trousers.

HE—Well, I spilled a Coca-Cola on my new
Oxford bags this afternoon.

Employer (to prospective employee)—“Do you
drink, smoke, chew, play cards or. 7”
Prospective Employee—“No sir.
| inine tendencies.”

I have.no fem-

| The Davidsonian feels and realizes the need for
| more attention to be paid our co-eds. The Tech-
|. mician has instituted a Co-Ed Column which is
| filled with the: doings of their four young ladies
| over at the Farmers’ Institute. All Davidson needs
is a writer competent to observe our co-eds’
habits and their social life and then report—in the
most direct and straight-forward manner possible.

The train announcer at the Southern depot im
Charlotte was fired the other day—he called three
trains so that almost anyone could understand
what he was saying.
