FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

ONIAN

DOCTOR MAR

TRUE AIM OF COLLEGE
WORK IN ANNUAL TALK

College President States That No
Institution is a College Unless
Its Chief Aim is Intellectual
Concentration ©

Declaring that some students had given
serious thought to the purpose of a college
education and that others had rather hastily
considered it as a routine in their lives, Dr.
W. J. Martin, president of the college, de-
livered his annual address to the student body
last Monday morning.

Dr. Martin had delayed the delivery of his
address until Monday in order to allow stu-
dents.to get settled in college before placing |
before them the ideas which he included in ‘
his talk. His address was brief and pointed,
and was a plea for more earnest consecration

to the serious purposes of a college education.

“If the objective of the institution is not
intelectual itis miscalled a college,”
Dr. Martin, “and had better known
another name.” Opening with this thought,
Dr. Marti explained at some length the ne- |
cessity for a concentrated effort on the part
of colleges to develop personality and men-
tality in their students.

declared

be by

“In some measure all humans are thinking
creatures—but not all humans think clearly,

connectedly, nor are they capable of sustain- |

ed thinking. Their thinking is) challov
superficial, incoherent, short lived. The most
painful thing most pédple can undertake is
sustained thought or reasoning,” he declared.

A. goodly portion of the president's dis-

course was given to an explanation of a mod- |

.ern system of college instruction, which i
rapidly gaining prestige throughout the |
country. That system leads to thinking not
of the course but of the student as a unit,

5

and it is under this system that courses are |
diagramed and divided in such’ 4 |

mapped,
(Continued on page 6)

Trustees Add Eight New

Professors to Faculty

All Are Students of Note of Their
Respective Studies and Courses

Five new professors havé béen added to
the faculty Davidson the scholastic
year of 1926-27 and three have returned after |
a year's leave of Of these eight,
three are themselves graduates of Davidson
and the others are equally as well prepared
and are all students of note of the subjects
of which they are teaching.

of for

absence.

a pe : |
Dr. Frazer Hood returns to take his place |

as head of the Psychology department after
a year of travel in Europe and a study of
conditions there.
leave of absence for the past year in order
to do this.

Prof. Henry T. Lilly has been added to the
English department, teaching first and second
year subjects as well as one advanced sec-
‘tion... Professor Lilly is a graduate of Da-
vidson and Princeton and has also been a
student at University of Vienna and also at
Oxford. During the past summer he has
been traveling on the Continent again. For
the past two years he has been.teaching at
the Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

Mr. Scott C.. Lyon comes to take his place
as head of the Biology department. For a
number of years he has been holding the
same position at Southwestern Presbyterian
University. He is a graduate of Southwest-
ern and also of Tulane. During the past
winter he has been attending the University
of Chicago.

Mr. Luther B. Henderson, graduate of the
University of New York, and Yale, and for
two years a student in German universities as

a. Yale Fellow, comes to-Davidson as profes-
sor of Education and Sociology. Profesiur | ,

'

number of mouth organs imported for the | Werk, which can be done without injury to} A moving picture show was the conclud
varsity football season, We can speak with- | the concrete,” ling feature of the evening and the entire
out hesitation though regarding the demon This is assurance that the stadium will! student body and faculty were the guests of
strated volume of the instruments, individ. | be ready far in advance of the Carolina game ; the Y.°M. ¢

| ually and collectively. Of such noise our | here November 13th, which is also designated The “Y" cabinet was assisted in the en
| good friend Abe Martin says: “The really |as Homecoming Day. Mr. Foard further | tertainment of the guests by the Student

He was granted a year’s |

TIN IVES adda hh tbat ARIAT LTT SALLI TEL LLL) |
G H O DAVIDSON HE
: “O Davidson,” known to han- :
: dreds of alumni of Davidson Col- §
$ lege and thousands of football fans :
: who hear it sung frequently at |.
: gridiron classics, has appeared as H
C ] : V a musical record. This lively $ R f N |
ong omerate 1ew piece of music was played for re- 4 eception or ew |
Of Fresh Imports)! coring by the Jazz Pitot, with § Men Given Monday
Pn a Harry Riser as director. The vo- $/ |
O wad some Power the giftie gie us ‘ cal part is sung by Ernest Hare. : The Y. MOC. A. in keeping with its yearly
To see oursels as ithers see us! Fr On a opposite side is “Yea Ala- : custom, welcomed the Freshman class at a
Mr. \ ebster, that great lover of words, is | bama: ; : - : reception at the Gymnasium from 7:30 until
authority for the following: Freshman——one | § It is reported that “O Davidson $ 10 o'clock last. Monday evening. The new
in the first state of knowledge. All things is made by three different com- $0 61 and the Seniors were invited to be pres-
must have a beginning. Only the fittest live panies, but this has not been veri- : ent at 7:30 and the other two classes at 8:30,
on to see the end. And there’s a long, long fied. The ones which have appear- § The receiving line was composed of the fac
trail awaiting. ed on the Davidson campus are : ulty members of the college and their wives,
Records mean nothing in recording first | § made by the Okey people. : The Freshmen, after meeting the faculty,
impressions of a freshman class. Of course | eeeccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccooces Were served with refreshments, ice cream
it has a longest and a shortest; a baby jumbo y ‘ ‘ ¢ jand cake and punch, and there followed a
,and tiny Tom. A certain percentage belong Stadium Will be Ready | short social period in which they had an
|to the Brown, Smith, Johnson and Jones : ‘ ‘5 lopportunity to meet the men of their own
families. This percentage of the favored is for Alumni Homecoming and of the Senior classes.
inevitable. The remainder Or hoi polloi have Manse kes) We Dr. Wm. J. Martin, president of the col
picked up whatever name they could, or {lege, opened a short program with an address

rather whatever name their paternal ances leom behalf of the administration.
it rs wer bold as toa aan et Concrete to be i an by Octoner-tat i - price cere ati fi the men of the
ors were so DO as to ass (s}, e mentronec Ye lac wa Cc CH ¢ u
‘ass ‘em for convenience a helass had been carefully ‘lected = from
Class em all for convenience under the COSTS $25, 000 | clas AE ReCly a CUS Ve eld !
heading: freshmen green. You remember car mre jnumerous candidates for admission and ex-
| the iz ave ame i ty have hem to make the best of the oppor-
the Indians have no name until they have H. S. and L. Richardson of Greens- limon ret! them to ce ( Pl
) accomplished some feat of honor, valor, or boro Are Donors of Handsome tunities offered by the institution,

| J. VF. Pinkney, president of the student
| body, made a brief talk following that of Dr,
1M: irtin, Pinkney told the new men of ‘the

stadium at David- | traditions of the school and pointed out the

wr iv ls
ae! ith the mau 1, mite) etn vera “DYN ted) UG» ut
"of the concrete into the ‘heams and colutins ) He

to begin Monday. All of the concrete will
in October Ist, said Z. I*. Board,
who is in charge of the work.

attention

| intelligence. Why not treat Captain Weems’
Babes in Arms in a like manner? One of
| the more prodigious of the children may pass
fresh Math in one year. Surely he may be

inethy hurdopad with the 4 tithe “Lacks |

Memorial

Work on the

son is progressing, rapidly,

concrete

|

abinge

Luke.” Another will perhaps escape carrying
a’ Senior's laundry some week. After due
| chastisement specimen will likely
| be dubbed “Slippery Susy Sans Service.”
You get the idea? Merely a suggestion for
| telling the various details of the campus ver-

due from the common or general mass.

ths spirit of Davidson and to uphold the
honor and policies of the student body.

: ; “The president of the Y. M. C. A. W. A
“We STATUS ANE seeds | Christian, spoke of the ideals of the “Y” at
* stated Mr, Foard. “And | Davidson and its past history. He cordially
after that is completed there will be consid- | jnyited the new men to the “Y”"
such as brick oyn

; i ne
this wary be before

on the

pouring just now,
services and
erable touching up necessary, their servant.

Figures are not available as to the exaci urged them to make the

stated that the stadium would be completed | Council and several ladies who presided over
. | . ea
(Continued on page 7) i} the punch bowl and ice cream booths,

SCENE OF THE NEW WILDCAT STADIUM |

great don’t have to tell folks about it.”
(Continued on page 7)

Here’s where the new Davidson concrete ‘stadium, a gift of friendly alumni of the oitege: will be built. The accompanying

p_orthe edpe of the -Dayidson-campus.-—It-is-consicdered one of the

finest athtetig fields in the South, and wien the new stadium is completed, thé college will have the most excellent athletic facili-

| the

Mine baeere Th wieaes ae

appealed to the Freshmen to entér into

STUDENTS RETURN FOR
NINETY-FIRST SESSION
_ OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

De: Martin Gives Welcome — Six
Hundred and Thirty-Four Stu-
eg Register—Four Less
Than Last Year

Davidson Collexe rOrBaTlY opened its 91st
session last Thursday morning at
when 634 students,. four less
assembled in Shearer Hall for
The latter were brief,

scholastic
8:30 o'clock,
than in 1925,
the opening exercises.
consisting principally of announcements to
the new men, The'president of the coftege,
Dr. W. J. Martin, said a few words of wel-
come, but deferred hts annual address before
students until Monday, September 13th.

Tuesday and‘\Wednesday of last week were
the men, the majority
of them being on the campus before Wed-
All but 50 of the 226
| Freshmen arrived ua as requested by,
the college. The were ade-
pastel cared for CG. Ay, or
which J. M. Appleby, Sy Gyais
general secretary.

spent in registering

| nesday morning.

first year men

the Y. M.

of. Florence,

ue

work, being assisted
of Mobile, Ala., presi-
S. Broyles, of Meridian,
the

He has directed the
by W. A. Christian,
dent of the “Y"; \
Miss.,

chairman of entertainment com-

mittee; W. S. Woods, of China; F. C.
Withers, of Columbia, J. B. Webb,
Ub Cikeiwaier, Pia, Saudi Sev iikinsn,

Ni G,

registering the students at

of Rocky Mount,

The matter ‘of
Davidson this year was facilitated to a great
degree through correspondence between the
the former they
student was started it did not
the gamut

registrar and before ar-
Once

take him long

rived. a

to run entire of
offices.

Through the addition of new
the college curriculum

(Continued on page

of matiy pro-

has been

7)

Five Davidson Students
Attend “Y” Conference

McAlpine, Bradford, Mauzy, Spier
and Graham Are Delegates at
Blue Ridge

fessors,

The annual conference of the Young Men's
Christian Association of -the Southern col-
Blue Ridge, in the moun-
western North Carolina, from the
15th to the 25th of June. At this conference,
held in one of the most beautiful spots in the
South, were representatives from practically

leges was held at

tains of

every Southern college for men. Davidson
was well represented with five delegates:
J. A. McAlpine, W. Bradford, Hampton
Mauzy, Spier, and Graham.

The primarjye purpose of the Blue Ridge
to the problems of
and in discussions to try to de-
probletns might best be
the students in their
several men of world renown were

conference was study
student life,
these

termine how

overcome. To assist
solution,
present. In the discussion groups the men
became acquainted with the way in which
other colleges dealt with their problems, and
the methods were

then discussions on best

held. :

There were several excellent speakers, but
the three more famous might be — said
to be Dr. Sherwood _Eddy,- Dr. Mordecai
Johnson, and Dr. J, Stitt Wilson. Dr. Eddy
was probably the most powerful speaker of
the convention—his main topic for discussion
“Militarism in Our Schools and Col-
Dr. Eddy, himself a chaplain in the

was
leges.”:

World War, deliyered several forceful ad-
dresses on this much-discussed topic.

Dr. Mordeeai Johnson, a negro, was a very
keen and clear+thinking speaker.

He is one |

of his race. Dr. Johnson spoke on ‘Racial

(Continued on page 8)

_ties in this section.—Air photo.

(Continued on page 2)
