4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post ‘Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class *

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
eaiyen from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH
HAROLD D. BURKE..

.--Editor-in-Chief
-Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON. -Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL_.. ----------Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON Athletic Editor
R. B, PARKER -Associate Editor
Ay Ni. BOWIE Dies Soacsee ----..---Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH. -.-Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.. --Humorous Editor
TGBIEW. DR Bittiiie sce se wieccscs soca cc epenceeee Alumni Editor
His SH MB Vassesseecuce ms Exchange Editor
H. D. BURK Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH -Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDE ---Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOO -Supscription Manager
EBs20 DOUGIASS Sse eee Assistant
JULIAN LAKE... -Service Department

..---Assistant

M. P. CRAWFORD.

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES

V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. LL. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas. B, MARTIN

W. H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAINE
H. M_ AUSTIN J. P. McKNIGHT
C. LL. RRAGAW A, M. SPARROW
D. M CALHMOUN J. G

W. T. DAVIS
W._S. GORDON

I Woops
JOHN GWIN

W.S ODS
“INGSWORTH

J. F. HOL

EDITORIAL

See “Mr. Bob” Monday night.

one pees

Things are getting right now.

Will be up in foree Monday night.

f D sae

The Davidson Glee Club, almost 40 strong

is turning Dixie upside down this week—at

least a few feminine hearts down Georgia
way,

The girls

: DN
Every college but this has sought to ban
the Charleston, About time for us to flout
our blue stocking in the face of this insidious
menace to the goddess Terpsichor,
Renee ID) eee
The Davidsonian’s hopes of many years
has been brought about. The board of di-
rectors of the Student Store have voted to
give this organization a portion of the
profits to fit us up with an office.
i p yoo oiaiise ae
Suspenders have heen suspended at Con-
verse, and the gal’s galluses have all gal-
loped away. An edict from the stern rulers
of our sister college decreed that the girls
should no longer load their, pretty shoulders
with manly straps.
Se pe

We wonder what has become of Red
Grange, articles against compulsory church
attendance, long skirts and hair, old time
habits of study, girls’ glee clubs, and Fresh-
man spirit ?

Ese Sp) ease 2

It is true that the Freshman class has not
produced any phenomenal athletic teams,
vet the individual members of this large
body should not let their interest flag be-
cause ofthis fact. Only by the proper spirit
toward the teams, can victories be won.

D

__ During this week, almost everything in
the realm of athletics is being practised.
Swimming is aboutthe only form of sport
for which there is no equipment. Football,
baseball, track, tennis, and wrestling are all
going full speed, and the coaches have their
hands full.

D
Y’S DOINGS

The room in the old Phi Gam Hall which
has lately been turned into a reception room
for all non-fraternity students, fills a long-
felt want at Davidson.

For a number of years, the need for a
common gathering place has been apparent.
Boys who did not belong to the various
social clubs have been at a disadvantage
when it came to entertaining visitors. But
the new room, nicely fitted as it is will serve
admirably, and will lend a touch of home-
life to the campus.

A -questionthat could well be asked here,
is the one about the parlors in East, West
and Watts dormitories. The fellows ought
to use them as a social center; if they do
not, they should be turned into something
useful, say a room for extra students in the
fall, or somethingof that: sort.

es

A NOBLE SOUL

There are very few who know the deep
domestic sorrow that visited the home of
Stephen Leacock, one of the world’s great-
est humorists; few knew that behind the
bubbling and sparkling humor of Mr. Lea-
cock dwelt the staid political econimist. Mr.
Leacock’s wife had been for years dying of
cancer, and passed away during a visit to
england to try a new discovery.

Mr. Leacock made a delightful impression
here last year with his witty and brilliant
lecture.

It has been announced that Prof, Leacock
will devote all his earnings from his humor-
ous writings and lectures to help research
workers who are seeking the source and
secret of this dreaded and grim disease. It
is notably commendable that a man of such
a type as Mr. Leacock, witty, humorous and
light-hearted, should devote his fortune to
the development of a cure for cancer. To
the superficial mind, Mr. Leacock would
seem never to have a serious thought since
his manner and appearance are so gay and
happy: but this generous gift of Mr. Lea-
cock’s makes one think of the prevalence of
selfishness in the world, as compared to the
whole-heartedness and unselfishness of Mr.
Leacock. It would indeed be well if every
one would attempt to emulate the virtues
of Mr. Leacock ; and even if he fall short of
his noble example, he would be well along
the way towards being the true Christian
gentleman that he is. Those who live in a
valley have a shorter day than those who
live on a mountain; but if they would only
climb, they could bask in sunshine more.

CONGRESS AND COLLEGIANS

On February 3rd the Associated Press
carried a dispatch from Washington with
the news that of the 11,737 bills which had
been introduced in Congress since December
7th, only three had gone through all the
stages necessary to becoming law.

Although a number of these will yet be-
come laws, the dispatch tells with a slight
exaggeration of the workings of our great
legislative body. Immense have been the
condemnations poured down upon Congress
for its lack of efficiency; for its super-
abundance of governmental red tape.

What a different situation confronts the
student of government when legislation at
Davidson is considered. The charge has
gone out that “any motion can, be passed
through the Davidson student body.”
Whether such is true or not, we only point
to the motion after motion which has gone
over with a unanimous vote in the hurried
assemblies; we only ask for one of import-
ance, if one at all, which has failed to carry
in the last year, ‘

What is the cause of such a situation—one
exactly opposite to that found in the legis-
lative bodies of the state and nation? Is it
the unusual wisdom and perfection of the
motions themselves? Is it the complete
confidence of the student body in the sug-
gestions of the student council, or in the
proponents of the bills themselves? Or is it
the hurry to get away from the meeting?
Oris it the lack of general interest in mat-
ters pertaining tothe “running” of the stu-
dent body ?

We are making no charges against the
student body, nor offering any suggestions.
Just seeking the reason for such a difference
in legislation.

IDEALISM IN EDUCATION

One hundred and eighty-six scholars are
working this morning under, the spires of
Oxford toward a higher education made pos-
sible through the benevolence of Cecil
Rhodes. Gathered from all sections of the
English-speaking world, their vision is prob-
ably broad.

In the narrowness ofour own view we
wonder what are their ideals of education.
In our own hurry and scurry for campus
popularity or scholastic honors or extra
curriculum achievement it might be well to
stop‘and ponder the ideals set before these
young men,

Education, according to Mr. Rhodes, has
for its ultimate purpose a definite end: thus
he expressed the hope in his will that his
scholars “would esteem the performance of
public duties. as their highest aim in after
life.”

Mr. Rhodes’ idea was that there are four
qualities. which should be elicited in his
scholars. They are: “First, the capacity to
think and reason for themselves; secondly,
fidelity tothe moral virtues which he-defined
as “truth, courage, devotion to duty, sym-
pathy for and protection ofthe weak, kindli-
ness, unselfishness, and fellowship; thirdly,
the instincts for leadership, which he inter-
preted as an active interest in and love for
his fellowmen; and, lastly, activity and
health of body.”

The second, the third, and the fourth
qualities are undoubtedly well developed at
Davidson. No one can doubt the tendency
toward “moral virtues” on the Hill nor the

| existence of means toward the development
of “activity and health ofbody.” As to the
instinets of leadership one might even say
that they are over-developed. But for all
practical purposes these three qualities will
pass muster as far as Davidson is concerned.

It is at the very first quality that we are
moved to stop. Whereever the fault may
be it seems that there is one. The ideal is
not toward Mr. Rhodes’ quality of “think-
ing and reasoning for themselves” but to-
ward “learning.”

The fault is not one particular to David-
son. It is common to the colleges and uni-
versities of America. From the far west
comes rumors and reports of attempts of
students to change the “cut-and-dried”
courses; to change the attitudes of both
faculty and students.

Whether such a movement is too idealistic
is a question of moment. Whether a change
is even to be desired is another question.
But there seems to be little doubt that this
“renaissance” is moving, and that some day
Davidson will haye to face the matter. It
would be well that we consider it in advance.

Open Forum

During the spring months the grass ontle cam-
pus is exceedingly tender. Due to this fact the
Rk. O. T. C. department has been requested to use
the athletic field instead of the campus in front
of Chambers as a drill ground. One fact has been
overlooked, however. That fact is that the ath-
letic field has grass upon it which is just as tender
as that onthe campus.

The athletic field was the gift to Davidson from

a generous alumnus. An carnest endeavor has
been made to make it one of the best in the
state. The varsity football field has been sown in

grass twice and the baseball diamond has the only
grass infield of any college diamond in the state.
This grass just coming into maturity and
should he in fine shape for the coming season. To
say .that drilling upon it is detrimental to its
growth is putting it too light, however. Tt can
only result in the replanting of the grass this
spring at a.great expense and an imperfect field
next fall.

We do not wish to knock the R. O. T. C. de-
partment and it does seem thatthe college should
provide it with adequate drill grounds if it must
be ineluded in the curriculum, During the winter
months the coaches have made every endeavor to
prevent anyone from even walking across the
field and now it seems that their endeavors have
been in vain, The majority of the drilling could
at least be confined tothe practice field and to the
Freshman field,

The college is confronted with a problem but it
does not seem there should be a greater spirit of
co-operation betweenthe different phases of the
school’s activities.

Is

W. LL. LINGLE.

PHILOSOPHY

There comes to our mind that homely bit of ad-
vice called a “Frenchman's Philosophy” which wa's
current duringthe late war. Whether or not it
originated with a Frenchman is uncertain, but we
do know it is good advice. So far as we remem-
ber, it went something like this: “If you're sent
to the front, either you'll be wounded or you'll
not be wounded; if fou are not wounded, there’s
no need to worry, and if you're wounded one of
two things will be true: cither you'll be wounded
badly or you'll not be wounded badly.” Several
more degrees of misfortune were mentioned, and
the cheerful philosopher ended by saying, “Either
you'll get well or you won't get well; if you get
well, there’s no need to worry, and if you die, you
can't worry.” This
plicable to peace as
that in almost any

sort of cleverness is as ap-
to war, and it will be found
situation the same sort of
reasoning will hold good: Tf the best happens,
there is no need to worry, and ifthe worst hap-
pens, you can’t worry.—Salemite.

Minor Chords

THE STRUCTURE
One massive rock of hugeness, bold, and stern,
With all its native mightiness endowed :
On this to build—if living we might learn
The lessons of experience in the crowd—
Our habitation’s structure. Yet, but look
How mean an edifice we raise to cap
Our great foundation stone; as if we took
The sticks and mud, the rubbish and the scrap,
To build our everlasting estimate
Of Him who laid the corner stone. So poor
Al workman, with such tools, how he would hate
To view his handiwork in architecture—
Beneath the glorious granite’s mountain face;
-lbove the shack of empty ugliness.
—D.H.G.S.

Junior Speaking plans are going merrily
on, after a fashion. Girls in many distant
places are even now waiting with expect-
ancy for that delicious time of the year
around Easter,

|
|

TWO STEWED

A couple of alumni had come back to visit, and
they proceeded to get tanked up, as the alumni

are so prone to do. They went to the hotel to
spend the night, not wishing to return home in
their delapidated condition, They were given a
room with twin beds. They turned out the lights,
and then, by error, got in the same bed. We
wouldn't think of divulging the names of these
persons so in the following conversation we will
call them Mr. A, and Mr. B, respectively.

Said Mr. A: “B!”

“Whatda want?”

“There's a man in my bed?”

“There's a man in my bed,” answered Mr. B.

“Let's kick him out,” suggested A,

“All right,” replied B.

Then.

“AS

“Whassa matter?”

“Tt kicked my man out.”

Then said A: “My man kicked me out.”

They proceeded to do so.

a prize at the Costume Ball?”
a lot of compliments on the

“Did your girl win

“No, but she got
showing she made.”

Father: “I see by the gasoline tank that you
didn't get very far last. night.”

Son: “Well, father, I'm not complaining.”

Prof: “I take great pleasure in giving
eighty-one in mathematics.”

Stude: “Make it a hundred and enjoy your-
self.”

you

HE HAD LENT HER HIS PEN

’

“It writes beautifully,” she said.
“Tam in love with the holder,” said he.
“Whatta-man,” she saw the point.

Halfmast the flag for Ezra C. Jones:
He played a clever game,
But he used loaded bones.

No, Oswald, a Phi Beta key will not open a can
of sardines.

ADVICE TO THE LOVELORN
She was my girl,
He was my friend,
I loved him like a brother;
And finally she came to town
And they met one another.
She liked him fro mthe very start,
He was so entertaining,
And when they fixed a little date,
It needed no explaining.
Tho love is blind,
I soon could see,
She’s altered her affection ;
And I was just the side shoe,
Where I'd been the main attraction.
Now she’s his girl,
He’s not my friend,
I talk of him as Mister:
I learned they’d not been out three times
Before. he up and kissed her.
And thus one social principle
Has dawned on me much clearer,
I tell you if you have a girl,
Don't let your friends get near her.

—Exchange.

“Who's you with this
morning?”

“That wasn't a gentleman; that was a Fresh-

the gentleman I saw

man,”

Five reasons why a certain Soph left college:

1. Agnes.
2. Mabel.
3. Mary.
4. Ethel.
5, Martha.

“I'm so broke I have to smoke Robinson Crusoe
cigarettes.”

“What kind is that?”

“Cast-aways.”

James B. Kuykendall, Jr., entered the drug store
and the following conversation took place with
“Skit.”

“Whacha want?”

“A&A nickel’s worth of asafetida.”

“Skit” wrapped it up and handed it to him,
whereupon Jimmy said:

“Charge it.”

“Whacha name?”

“Kuykendall.”

“Gwan,” said “Skit,” “I wouldn’t write Kuy-
kendall and asafetida for a nickel.”
