THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

It seems as if athletics over North Caro-|
\lina in general are in a muddle just as the,
present time, with three of the North Caro- |
| lina colleges without a head coach—Carolina,
| Wake Forest and Elon.

Crawford and Dowtin Star for
Respective Teams in Loosely
Played Game .

The Wake Forest Freshman team defeated
the Davidson Yearlings 32-23 at the David-| Coach Fetzer’s resignation at Carolina’
son gym last Monday night. The Baptist! seems to us to be the beginning of bigger
frosh jumped into the lead at the first of the | things at that institution. If recommenda-
game and were never passed by the Wildkit- |tions of the Asheville alumni go into effect

tens, although the Davidson team crept up to Carolina will have ten coaches—five of them
within one point of tying the score twice dur- | for football.
ing the last half.

The Wake Forest team obtained their,
early lead by the accurate shots and brilliant
playing of Dowtin and Pascal, these two
forwards leading the scoring with 12 points

That sounds big, and it would be, too. The
{theory now-a-days is that brawn isn’t the |
‘essential for a good football player, and |

each, The game was rather jerky, the neat |
shots of both teams were creditable to any

with five coaches to develop material and |
|give more individual attention to players

Squad of Fifteen Men to Represent
Davidson in Fourth Corp Area

Captain Daughterty recently announced to
all members of the R. O. T. C. who are in-
terested in rifle shooting that the Davidson
team would be chosen in the week of Feb-
ruary 1-6.

There are now about 35 boys trying out
for the team. From this number 15 boys
will be chosen. Besides some Sophomores
and Juniors who were on last year’s team,
this year’s Freshman class shows much
promise. Especially noteworthy has been the
shooting of McGill, Middleton, and Albright,
who have shot almost perfect scores.

Guilford Cagemen Play

SCORING OF DAVIDSON ;
PLAYERS Wildcat Team Saturday
eal Gals ae Game to be Called at 7:30 Allowing
pd 28 7inlS 63 Picture to be Shown
nderson ------
Wel (@) ces 28 = 6in 11 60
Hite oa bsdcige 15 Sin 12 35 The Guilford College Quakers are coming
Hewlette ------- 7 Sin 11 19 - me | to Davidson Saturday night to mix passing,
Mi shu soaue i 5 in ; ” Wake Forest Freshmen | SPORT PHS eens Cell Esl basketball skill with the
Jarrison ------- in é T | OGRA’ | b S | ct dT e W k Davidson Wildcats, in the first cage game
ee : ie f Conquer D avidson eam By Ernest Milton | e oerecte 1s ee this year between Guilford and Davidson.
aah RT e e | x ’
Moule lcs 90 28in72 208 32-23 in Listless Game to Represent Davidson | Previous games have been called at 8:00

o'clock, but Manager Garrison says this will
be at 7:30 o'clock, giving ample time for
the picture that will follow.

When the Fraser brothers left Guilford a
year or two ago the Quakers suffered a se-
vere loss. They constituted practically the
entire team from near Greensboro, and all
that was necessary was for the players to
feed the inflated sphere to them and they
looped them consistently.

But this year they have none of the Fraser
brothers on the team, and their record so
far has been rather inauspicious. The Wild-
cats have fared better than the Quakers this
year, the Wildcats having lost but two
games, and only one of those to a college
quint—to State, whose work this year is

proving phenomenal.

: nem pve ; The 15 men that are chosen will compose
varsity but the ed | Something is bound to happen and happen

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

passwork was ragg Raa aniible the Davidson rifle team to shoot in the No matter what HL) i ee
throughout the game. In the last half the} Bityacl : | Fourth Corps area meet. This meet will come to Davidson with, it has always been
Wildkittens made their only threats to over- | Sanam an undisputed fact that they put up a splen-

last for four weeks,
come the lead of the Baptists but their! [¢ has always been a surprise to us eal

hopes were soon blasted by the spurt of | Carolina has not had a bigger team than |
Wake Forest when they went into a comfort-| she has put in the field, with.the large num-

able lead which they succeeded in maintain-| per of students on their campus. Washing-

did fight against opponents. They possess
determined spirit, and will afford the Wild-
cats a nice scrap.

During this week the Wildcats have been

THREE DEBATE QUERIES

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

New Hats |

New Neckwear
New Sox

i
|
|
|
|

Leftwich

| generally considered Junior Speaking proper

|
|
\
|
|
|
|
|

ing the rest of the game.

Dowtin and Pascal were the two stars on
the Wake Forest team, and along with
Owens managed to sink some very neat shots
from all angles. The guarding of Leftwich |
was noticeable for Davidson, while Crawford |
covered the floor neatly and succeeded in|
finding the basket for long’ shots several |
times. Kerr also made several difficult shots, |

The game was a little rough, both teams |
having a good many personals called on them.
The technical fouls were also numerous; |
neither team seemed able to get rid of the
ball without walking a bit with it first.

The line-up:
Davidson (23)

Position, W. Forest (32) |
Kerr (8)

Dowtin (12) |
Right forward |
Pascal (12) !
Left forward |
Powell (2) |

Hunt (5)

Grawtord: (8) hecsuscsesseescee

|
Weir (2) |
Right guard |
Owens (4) |

Sturdevant (1)

Left guard

Substitutions: | Davidson—Winberg for
Sturdevant; Gilmour for Kerr; Green for
Leftwich; Leftwich for Crawford. Wake
Forest—Carter for Dowtin; Furches for
Pascal; J. Powell for B. Powell.

Referee, Hengeveld (Davidson).
keeper, Tilson (V. P. I.)

Time-

RECENT CHANGE IN JUNIOR

(Continued from page 1)
ture. The committee chairman, Harllee
Branch, has a scheme worked out which will
be original and different. The particulars of
this event will not be disclosed until a later
date. The Saturday night entertainment is

and every effort will be made to make it in-
teresting and enjoyable to the fullest extent.

The Davidson-Carolina baesball game is to
be played on Easter Monday. The place of
this game has not yet been definitely decided
but it is probable that it will be either Salis-
bury or Gastonia.

The success of Junior Speaking depends
largely on the students staying on the hill.
There will be fun and entertainment for all
who will thus enter into the spirit of the

Mrs. J. E. Montgomery, of Orlando,
| Fla., left today for her home after a
month’s stay at Davidson, on a visit to
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Hayne Hen-
derson.

THE ASTOR LUNCH

SERVICE

—+

THE BEST O
Charlott

a)

F COOKING
e, N.C.

ton and Lee, with only 800 students, puts out | (Continued from page 1)

a team that warrants more than local atten- ment should own and operate the coal mines
tion. Carolina, with over 2,000, should have! in this country.
team that rivet the attention of the entire | Four : different teams will be selected to
South at least. With five coaches we believe | debate these schools. The date for the try-
that something will happen within the next | outs for these teams will be announced at an
five years at Carolina—at least in regard to | early date. A number of last year’s varsity
football. team are now in school and several members
}of last year’s Freshman team are also mak-
ing bids for places on the team,

|
As for Wake Forest, Asheville alumni of |

that institution are taking the initiative in|

doing a lot of practicing, making up for the
two weeks in which they were idle during
examinations. The Concord game Tuesday
night afforded them opportunity to get in
teamwork trim.

From present indications Coach Monk will
start the lienup that has stepped on the floor
for most of the games so far this year.
There is a possibility that one or two changes
might be made.

| that case, and may get a former Carolina |
| star over there as head coach. As to what}
| material effect the exit of Coach Hank Gar- |

rity will have at Wake Forest remains to be |
seen. His contribution to Wake Forest can- |
not be expressed in concrete terms, but that

For the best smokes

For the latest magazines

he made a team in the few years that he For the most refreshing drinks H
coached there which was state champion is % oh i H
a splendid illustration of his ability. For toilet articles of the hig! est qua ity

In speaking of what is going to happen five
years from now, thought turns to Duke Uni-
versity. The man who made a great reputa-
tion at Washington and Lee is coming down
to Duke next year to continue the system
installed by Coach Pat Herran this year, If
Duke can keep DeHart, and with-the con-
stantly increasing student body over Dur-
ham-way, then the Methodists will come in
for a little of the honors, too.

Next to Vance Hotel

Just at the present time, we are thinking
about next year and what it is going to
mean over the state. In one sense, all three
of these institutions are beginning over
again, with Tebell at State and Coach Monk
at Davidson the only two coaches in the
state who will continue their machines in the

ishing touches, drop in

Eanes

WALTER CULBRETH

Statesville, N. C.

YOUR BARBER SHOP

When in Statesville and you require those fin-

and let us do the work.

THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP

Statesville, N. C.

———————

same system.

wos MODERNLY EQUIPPED

If we could be sure that all of the 15 let-
ter men that are due to be back at Davidson
next year would be on hand in the fall, then
for once we would like to predict that Da-
vidson would have the best prospect of any

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL

BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (up stairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

MORALLY CONDUCTED

team in the state. But—all examination re-!
ports are not in yet. And until they: are in,
we are wary about the outcome of next
season.

We may discuss here and there what other clothes.
schools over the state will do, but we can
also discuss what Davidson will do. If |
Coach Monk Younger stays at Davidson, |
which hundreds of alumni will want ‘him to
do, as well as every man who has ever come |
in contact with him, then he will develop a|
team that will be a factor in any champion- |
ship race. |

predominate.

To do that, though, he must at least have |
a semblance of good material. It largely
rests. with the alumni.and the present student |
body as to whether he will have such men. |
There is no use in beating around the bush, |
so we say frankly that material in the Fresh-
man class of this past season is woefully
lacking for varsity prospects. We can al-
ways bank on development. But take a glance
at what the other closses in school have con-
tributed to the varsity team, and then con-
template how many of the freshmen will be

running with the varsity this coming season.

New fabrics and patterns.

DVANCE showing of new spring

Light colors

Blues run a close second.

Toilored by Schloss Bros., Styleplus and
Keller-Heuman-Thompson.

BELK BROS. CO.

AT CHARLOTTE

