THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

Rey. Laurence Little, ’25, has recently
become assistant pastor of Grace Prot-

estant Methodist Church in  Greens-
boro, N.C. ”
Rev. A. M. Mitchell, '22, who recently

graduated from Union Theological Sem-
inary, has been called as pastor to the
Presbyterian Church at Selma, N. C.

“How did David kill Goliath?”

“He just rocked him to sleep.”

“Whash a triple threat?”
“Thash easy—wine, women ’n song.”

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

(errr rrr

ry

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

t

PITT irri rrr rrr rrr rr rrr rrr)

BOYS!

They’re Coming In

_ A

‘Cowboys Return to Hill
After Successful Trip

Scrub Team Wins Only One Game
But Has Exciting Trip

Matmen Take One-Sided
Match From Concord ‘y’|

Wrestling Team Wins All But One
Match by Straight Falls

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Boyce Martin

!

The basketball team doesn’t seem to have |
quite hit its natural stride as yet. The regu-,
lar program now seems to be to win a game

‘and then lose one. At times the team has
!been real flashy and played like real cham-
pions, and then again it has sunk to a state
bordering on the mediocre.

Returning to the campus late Thursday
after a barn-storming trip in the western
portion of the state, the “Cowboys” had en-
gaged in three hard-fought games. These
men of Coach Tilson’s squad left Davidson

Se .. Tuesday for Hickory to engage the Hickory
| But no team can stay in a slump long with Athletic Club on that night.

such a coach as Monk. The boys on the
squad have been really putting out for the
last few days, and when the season begins
again after exams, the quintet should be able
to go a long way toward obtaining sweet re-
venge from the N. C. State five.

At the same time that Captain Laird was
leading his men to a victory over Wofford,
Captain Cox was leading his men to a con-
quest of the Concord grapplers. Captain Cox
and his team won every match, except one,
by falls, leaving the score 30 to 5 in favor
of the Wildcats.

In the 119 pound class Frierson won by
a fall from Deaton, of Concord. In the 129
pound class, Barrington won by a fall from
Morgan. In the 139 pound class, Davis won
by a fall. In the 149 pound class Cox won
from Easley by a fall. In the 158 pound
class Crinkley lost to Denny, captain and
coach of the Concord grapplers, by a fall. In
the light-heavy-weight, Vance won from
Hoover by a fall. In the heavy-weight class
Maulden won from Codell by a fall. Vance
threw his man in a little over two minutes,
the fastest work of the meet.

Denny, coach and captain of the Concor
team, is one of the best wrestlers in this par
of the state. Coach Weems made the state-
ment that Crinkley, even though he was

The game with this club was hotly con-
tsted throughout. The team representing
Hickory was composed almost entirely of
former Lenoir College stars. Hickory won
this game 18 to 14.

, The next day, the team moved some 30

That State team can certainly play basket- Miles over the mountains to Valdese, where
ball too. They put up about the neatest ex- they engaged the Athletic Club of that town,
hibition of pass work seen at Davidson for a Practically the entire team being composed
long while. Their main trouble seems to be Of foreigners, as this settlement is a French
in sinking their longer shots, but this will be One. The Wildcats won this encounter to
improved doubtless as the season rolls on, the tune of 26 to 13.

d/ and they should give Carolina a run for their The following day the squad sojourned to
t | Money when they meet in their annual en- Lenoir, where they met the Lenoir Athletic
counter. Club. This game proved to be the high water
| aeons mark of the trip. The game started off with
thrown, showed up well against him. With Andy Hewlette again playing ee bs bang, first one team and then) the other

The Concord team has been training since larly, the Wildcat team should be uot SLIEMA WAI (i) nl HE Gel WE
‘early fall. Good results have been obtained Smoother than ever by the time Concord Rou Miser ti padeiae dhe apd Lb ariiae ti
land ‘their team showed up better against the played again in the first game after exams. extral pen0d being Uae Ey determine
| Wildcats than’ it has done before. The Wild-| The Concord team was defeated in the first the winner. Lenoir finally won, 42 to 41.
‘cats, also, according to Coach Weems, show- | &me of the season and they will be out for The men making this trip were: Baker,
ed good form in all the matches. | hlood when the next game is played. Calhoun, Farrell, Moore, S. W., Lawson,
After the regular matches had been com- Goodykoontz, McAuley, and Cook, In addi-
pleted, Denny, of Concord, and Vance, of Davidson seems to have a jinx on these tion to these D, M. McComb accompanied the
Davidson, put on an exhibition match, They Concord athletic teams. The Wildcat wrest- team as manager. The playing of Calhoun
had agreed to call time at the end of five| ling team won out in all but one of the, W#S the only outstanding event of the tour.
minutes, but Denny was forved to quite be-| matches in the meet held in Concord last | In the last game of the series he scored 15
fore the time expired on account of a broken! Saturday night. But they will have a chance | points in the second half. McAuley, at guard,
nose, which he received when he charged |to avenge their defeat since the two teams played consistent ball.
into the head of Vance, attempting to bring | will meet again the first part of February. It Ebi from all reports that the Cow-
him to the mat. | | boys indulged in more outdoor sports than
The schedule for the remainder of the : | basketball. Since real cowboys have small
season is as follows: | But there is one team that no one has | opportunity to take part in such activities
heard from all year, the golf team. Usually, they took advantage of the situation and
a fall tournament is held and several matches | swapped the basketball for snowballs, Cow-
with the country clubs around here, but so | joy Tom Baker reports that this was his first

Concord at Davidson, February 6.
February 13, V. P. I. at Blacksburg.

Listless Boxing Match
Marks First Exhibition

Bout Between Letts and Ramsay
Results in Draw—Grey and
Flinn to Fight

The exhibition boxing match staged at the
gym before a large crowd between halves of
the Wofford-Davidson basketball game mark-
ed the initial appearance of that sport at
Davidson College.

Fitts, of the Senor class, stepped three two-
minute rounds with Frosh Ramsay, both en-
tering the ring in the light-weight class. The
bout was void of spectacular action and at
times was a listless’ affair. The bout was
started with a rush; both pugilists waded in
and mixed it up, but soon the storm calmed
down and with the exception of an exchange
of a few blows the match became a sparring
bout. At times both opponents showed very
good form, especially, considering what lit-
tle training and ring technique they have re-
ceived. The fight was, a no-decision bout
and declared a draw.

On the night of February 6th Captain
Elkins promises a real match which will be
between Dick Grey and Frosh Dick Flynn.
This bout will probably be the best m f
the season as both men are good fighters and
about evenly matched.

1827 1925

Columbia

'
if

i
|
|
|

Theological
Seminary

Columbia, S. C.

The Synod cot Mississippi

an
Columbia Theological Seminary
Join Forces.

Resolution in Regard to the Columbia
Theological Seminary, Adopted
November 13, 1924.

“The Synod of Mississippi has heard
with pleasure the plan for the removal of
Columbia Theological Seminary to the
City of Atlanta, Ga.

I. Does hereby accept said offer of the
Board of Directors of the said Semina
when the removal of the Seminary shall

February 26, N. C. State at Davidson.

March 11, Duke at Duke.

March 13, Navy Plebes at Annapolis.

Manager Frierson is trying to arrange a
meet with Carolina, to be held either on the
trip to Annapolis or on the return. No defi-
nite arrangement has been made at the
present. :

Coach Bob Fetzer

New Suits

New Overcoats

New Hats
New Neckwear

New Sox

Come in and inspect them

Sa SS SSS SSS SSS SS SES SESS SEES SE SSE TE DSSS SSS E NESSES SS Ta TaN a aaa nana a NaN S SNS NTT OTST TOT a a

before making your pur-

chases.

The Tate-Brown Co.

Crore

Quits University

- On January 14th, Coach W. M. Fetzer, of |
the University of North Carolina, turned in |
_his resignation, in spite of the fact that he |
had still two more years to fill of a five-|
year contract. The graduate manager, C. T. |
Woolen, said that his resignation was ac- |
cepted, but as yet no one has been chosen to!
fill his place. j

Coach Fetzer is a former Davidson stu-
dent, of the class of 1902. He was a letter |
/man in two major sports here, and after |
graduating, came back to coach the teams in|
various sports. After leaving here, he went |
as a coach to N, C. State, and there turned |
out the championship team of 1920, In 1921 |
he went to Carolina, and had been there up
to this month. During his stay there he and |
ihis brother, R. A. Fetzer, have turned out |
15 of 22 state championships, and four
Southern titles. His brother will remain
there as head of athletics.

The coach recently sold his boys’ camp
near Brevard, N. C., for $125,000, clearing
$85,000, and’ is going to make his home there,
| with the intention of going into the real
| estate business.

i Carolina is losing in him one of the best

\

EAT AT

THE ASTOR LUNCH
é a a
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

|

ll

far there has not been a single match played. | (portunity to ice skate. He also says that

The pugilists exhibited some of their talent
at the gym Saturday night between the)
halves of the basketball games. ‘It would be
rather straining a point to call it a boxing
match, but it provided plenty of entertain-
ment for everyone at any rate. |

Football will be. with us again in about
two more weeks. The annual spring practice
will begin about the first of February under |
the direction of Coach Tex Tilson and will
continue for the following six weeks.

This will be an excellent time for the
coaches to examine the fresh material care- |
fully and begin building a team for the 1926
season. With 16 letter men planning to re-
turn in the fall, and with all the fresh team |
of the past season eligible, Wildcat prospects |
appear to be bright. |
|

|
It seems rather early to begin football

again, but down at Furman practice began |
last Monday. And incidentally, Furman will |
have a tough time next year filling the gaps |
in the line caused by the loss of eight letter |
men, Only one varsity lineman is returning
to school in the fall.

And still speaking of football, Flake Laird |
certainly played a beautiful game down in
Atlanta during the Christmas holidays. His |
prep alma mater, University School, was |
challenged by their ancient rivals, Tech High, |
and their championship team of 1924. Flake |
was called on to play his old position of full- |
back and he did it nobly. It was his inter-|
ference that paved the way for a 97-yard run |
by one of his teammates. |
coos |
The minor sports seem to have the spot- |
light right at present. The wrestlers, box- |
ers and men on the rifle team are all working
diligently every day. And if this warm
weather keeps up, the.tennis team wil] soon
be out working every day.

|

coaches that it has ever had, and will have a
hard time filling his place. He and his broth-
er have organized athletics there, and have
put Carolina on the map as one of the best
of the South, with teams that have been con-
sistent in winning honors,

have become an assured and legal fact.
riding his favorite pinto cannot compare to

II. And as this removal may be thus
this activity.

assured before another meeting of Synod,
it does hereby appoint as Directors in
said Seminary:

Rey. C. W. Grafton, D. D.

Rev. J. B. Hutton, D. D.

Mr. R. F. Kimmons

respectively for one, two and three years.”

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, President

|
The library has just received “An In- |
troduction to the Study of the New:
Testament,” written in Chinese, by Dr.|
Donald W. Richardson, ’02, who is en-|
gaged in religious work at the Nani

Theological Seminary, Nanking, China.

v

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL

BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (up stairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

a
We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach,
O’Shea Knit Goods
MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY
18 East Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

—

—$—$———

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES

Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it
with you as you go

In College Display Room every Friday
10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co.

Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

Wholesale

Whe You feed Candy
See Us

26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

