Vol. XIII

VIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 4, 1926

No. 17

Davuion Students to
Hear Famous Lecturer
of Far Western State

The Y. M. C. A. announces that the Hon. |

J. Stitt Wilson, of California, will give a
series of lectures at Davidson this week-end,

Hon. Mr. Wilson will speak first in chapel
Saturday morning. His second appearance
will be Saturday afternoon when he speaks
to a select group of students especially in-
terested in sociological problems. The “Y”
vespers have been given over to him for the
final message of the series.

Dr, Wilson was first heard at Davidson in
1924 when he delivered a number of talks
on various subjects of current interest. He
attracted the largest student audiences ever
given a speaker of his type. His stirring
messages, striking delivery, and great earn-
estness were responsible for his popularity.
He has
gained nation-wide note as an author, stu-
dent sociologist, publicist and politician. As
mayor of Berkeley, Calif., he enjoyed a most
successful administration.

Dr. Wilson is a versatile lecturer,

Dr. Wilson is probably among the most

thorough sociological students in America.
Besides his practical training in the outside
world, he spent nine years at the University
of Chicago, specializing in sociology. He sup-
plemented his university course by investi-
gating conditions in every circle of Chicago

society, thus gaining an extraordinary in-

sight into these problems.

Students are attracted to Mr. Wilson be-
cause of his liberal and modern attitude
towards social and religious questions.

eloquence.

His topics for this time, “The Message of
Science” and “The Approaching Renais-
sance,” suggest two instructive and enter-
taining lectures,

In securing Dr. Wilson the Davidson Col-
lege Young Men’s Christian Association is
following up the course that it has set
throughout this year in bringing to the Da-
vidson campus the finest speakers available,
Working on a limited capital, the committee
for speakers, headed by Joe Garrison, has
been at a disadvantage on account of lack of
funds.

However, the bringing to the college of
such men as Dr. Wilson, Bishop Penick, and
Judge , Of Winston-Salem, in a
space of four weeks, is ample proof that the
committee is intending giving the students
a chance to hear men of real worth.

The officers of the “Y” are anxious to get
as large a crowd out for the first appearance
of Dr. Wilson Saturday as possible, knowing
that every man who attends will bring others
back for the succeeding meetings.

He!
is a master of concrete style and unusual |

Hunt, ’25, Dies at
Home in Lexington

A pall of sorrow envelaped the Davidson
campus when the distressing news was heard
that John C. Hunt, ‘25, had died January
22nd at the home of his parents, in Lexing-
ton, N. C., after an illness of about a week
from pneumonia. “Popsy,” as he was known
by all the students, had been serving “the
{ Lexington High School as athletic coach
{during the past fall and was coaching the
basketball team at the time of his death.

For three years the deceased was a mem-
ber of the Davidson varsity football team
and held a prominent place on the campus
and in the hearts of the students. He was
| famous in collegiate circles as a drop-kicker.
In 1923 he kicked a field goal that won the
{game from Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, 3 to 0, and also starred and per-
‘formed nobly in 1924 with Furman and also
with Clemson. His athletic activities were
{continued when he returned to his home
/town last fall to take charge of the football
| team there. This team made a very credit-
|able record last season, due in no small part

|to the efforts of their coach.
| a :
| (Continued on page 5)

Season’s First Home Wrestling and
Boxing to Feature Week-End Program

Although the exact date for the Davidson-
Concord wrestling meet is undecided, Man-
ager Joe Frierson announced Monday that
it would be held the latter part of the week,
probably Friday or Saturday night. The
reason for this doubt is the conflict of the
date originally set for the met with that’ of
a basketball game.

There will be seven matches: Frierson
(Davidson) versus Deaton (Concord), in the
119 pound class; Barrington (Davidson)
versus Morgan (Concord) in the 129 pound
class; Davis (Davidson). versus. Wallace
(Concord) in the 139 pound class; Cox (Da-
vidson) versus Easley (Concord) in the 149
pound class; Pinkney or Bohannon (David-
son) versus Cole in the 149 class; Vance
(Davidson) versus Irvin (Concord) in the
175 pound class, and Malden (Davidson)
versus Bruton’ (Concord) in the unlimited
class. Denny, of Concord, will referee.

Between the matches several boxing botts

will be staged. In the fly weight class Em-
bry, a Freshman weighing 113° pounds, will
box Smith, a Sophomore, who weighs 112
pounds. In the bantam weight class Keerans,
a Junior, will box Lake, a Sophomore. Both
weigh 123 pounds. The best match of the
evening will/probably be that between Flynn,
a Freshman, and Grey, a Sophomore. Grey
| tips the scals at 149 pounds, while Flynn only
| weights 149 pounds. But Flynn will have
‘the advantage of having had the more experi-
jenee than Grey. Captain Weems will
| referee. Captain Elkins and Lieutenant
Beckett will be the judges. The time-keeper
has not yet been appointed.

Captain Elkins hopes to stage an inter-
class boxing tournament some time in April.
An open-air ring will be afforded for the
occasion. Barring Davidson from inter-col-

athletics here this year. It is hoped that by
next year it will be allowed, and at present
the chances look very promising.

legiate boxing has been a heavy blow on|

Glee Club to Present
| Varied Selections on
Debut Tomorrow Night

Jazz Orchestra to be Special At-
traction in Initial Performance
Here

Davidson students will be given their only
chance to hear their Glee Club tomorrow
night at 8:00 o'clock. A program was an-
nounced for a performance before exami-
nations, but conflicting entertainments neces-
sitated the postponement of the Glee Club's
program,

Manager L. B. McClain has announced
that the entire club will take part in the en-
tertainment, with special emphasis being laid
on the jazz feature, The jazz orchestra,
under the direction of B. T. Crayton, has
made a big*hit the few times that it has
heard this year. Several have
they played at the gym on Saturday nights
and onee they broadcasted from’ Charlotte
over Station WBT, at which time they re-
ceived much commendation from numerous
parties throughout the South,

The symphony orchestra, headed by T. C,
Barr, is given a prominent part on the pre-
sentation. Several classical numbers are to
he offered by this unit of the club. The
chorus of some 30 men is to render quite a
number of selections that will be appealing
to the students in that they will be catchy,
airy, and ful of life.
is said to be better than the one of last year
which received so much favorable comment,
is larger and with more experienced men
in it than ever before.

The special vocal offerings are to be pre-
sented by the quartet, consisting of D. G,
Wilson, J. S. Foster, D. M. Calhoun, and
M. M. Lockhart. These men sang together
on stunt night last fall, making a good im-
pression on their hearers, and as they have
included group of in their
repertoire, the, success of their ‘part of the

been times

The chorus, as a whole,

a new songs
program is assured.

One of the minor features of the evening's
entertainment is to be given by the mandolin
club. Two upper classmen, Womack and
Proctor Thompson, and two freshmen, Kane
and Worzel, constitute the club.

The price of admission for the reserved
seats will be 50 cents, and 35 cents will be
charged for the remaining seats.

Three Debate Queries
Announced for Varsity
Sewanee and V. P. I. Will Be Met on

Same Question—World Court
Question Also

Plans for the inter-collegiate debates,
which are to be held during the months of
March and April, are being rapidly laid.
During: the past week the queries for three
oi the debates have been chosen. The ques-
tion to be debated with the University of
Pittsburg was chosen some weeks ago.

The query for the debate with the Presby-
terian College of South Carolina will be:
Resolved, That the United States should en-
ter the World Court. The Debating Council
has decided that. Davidson will uphold the
affirmative side of the question. This is a
subject of vital interest to the country at
large and one which the United States has
voted to accept with reservaions.

On account of a conflict in dates the debate
with William and Mary has been cancelled
and V. P. I. has replaced this school on the
Davidson schedule. The subject to be de-
| bated with this school and also with Sewanee
| University will be: Resoived, That the’ miti-
tary ‘forces of the United States should be
consolidated into a department of national
defense, with sub branches of army, navy,
and air forces,

The University of Pittsburg will be de-
bated here. The query for debate will be:
Resolved, That the United States Govern-
| (Continued’ on page 2)

Recent Change in Junior Speaking Date

Brings the Holidays Into Easter Season

THREE SENIORS
AVERAGE
- OVER TRADITIONAL
MARK OF .98
The class of 1926 has the distinetion
of having three men who haye aver-
aged over 98 for the first semester of
their Senior year. These men, Robert
Hayden Hollingsworth, and
Ben Ratchford, have averaged, respec-
tively, 98.34, and 98.0 per cent.
The latter two are members of Phi
Beta Kappa. Although at present
these are the only men whose grades
have been averaged, it is probable that
three other leaders of the Senior class

Graves,

98.75,

have approached this high water mark
of tholarship,

The average of Graves, 98.75) per
cent, is the highest that has been at-
tained at Davidson College for over
and if the
available, it is probable that this would
stand as the highest for many more
years previous, This is also the first
time in the history of the college that
as many as three men have averaged
98 at time the same
semester; thus the class of '26 stands

six. years, records were

over one for

unique in scholastic lines,

Sixty-Eight Report
for First Practice

Last Monday morning Coach Tex Tilson
announced in chapel that spring football prac-
tice would start that afternoon, In answer
to this call 78 men drew uniforms and 68
appeared at Bli
practice, The squad is smaller by 25 men
than that of last year. Tilson an-
nounced, however, that he was satisfied with
the number of men and that this practice
would be a success if the large majority of
them stayed out for the:full six weeks. Coach
Tilson also said that anyone failing to par-
ticipate in this practice would not be allowed
to come out next fall during the regular
season-sand that anyone missing as many as
two practices without excuse would be re-
quired to turn in-his uniform, He stated that
this was the only way by which the spring
practice could be made a success.

k's cow pasture for the first

Coach

Spring practice was started at Davidson
the year that Coaches Monk and Tex started
their sojourn here, This is the third one to
jbe held. The practice is under the super-
vision of Coach Tilson, since Coach Younger
is now occupied with the baskethall team.
Coach Tilson will have charge of the line
while Monk Mattox, who is in charge of
Freshman athletics, will train the backfield
men in the rudiments of the game. The
spring practice has become necessary  be-
cause there is little time during the regular
season to devote to the finer points of the
game.

During the last two weeks of the season
the squad will probabl# be divided into two
teams. These two will play exhibition games
on the last two or three Saturdays of the six
weeks’ period. Last. year Hickory High
School was encountered on the last day, but
such a game has not been planned for this
year, Last year the inter-muriel games
proved to be much more interesting exhibi-
tions than that one just mentioned.

A number of letter men reported for the
first day’s practice. Pinkney, Bohannon, and
Arrowood, last year's ends, were all present
for the first day’s grind. Tom Baker and
Wick Black are helping coach the Fresh-
men. Wick will probably return next year.
Joe McConnell, who recently underwent an
operation, will be out in a few days. Leg-
gette, Ritchie and Vance are also out. This
is the first opportunity that the Freshmen

| have had to line up with the varsity, and a

loacidion Students Will Have Holli-

days From April 1 to 6 Inclusive
—Coincides With Those of
Most Schools Now

The spring recess for this year has been

jehanged from April 8th through the 13th,

listed in the
through the 6th.

as catalogue, to April Ist

Due to the fact that Master

‘comes on the 4th of April the Junior class

requested that the faculty make this change.
) The spring festivities usually center around
aster and at this time the majority of
colleges and universities have their spring
holidays. These two facts will tend to make
the change most acceptable to the students,
‘as it will make it easier for visitors trom
other schools to attend Jymtor Speaking and
lend the holiday spirit to the occasion.
| The Junior Speaking committee has now
completed the general arrangements for the
program covering the holidays. On Thurs-
j lay afternoon the Wildeats will meet V. M.
jl. in the first track meet of the season, This
| Will present an opportunity to see two good
teams in action and should cause a large
}number of the students to remain on the hill.
Friday evening will be set apart for the
Junior orations. Heretofore this part of ‘the
progrant has been underemphasized., but due
to the efforts of the
the co-operation

| Forensic Council and
the Junior the

speeches are to be one of the main attrae-

of class

tions of the holidays, The six Juniors who
compose the team are men who have pre-

tivities and have shown themselves skillful
speakers on various occasions. Hach has his
subject selected and the next two months
should sufficient time for the

to be rounded into perfect shape.

be orations

Saturday afternoon  Lenoir-Rhyne — will
come to Davidson to play the annual baseball
game between the two colleges.
ways offers stiff opposition to the Wildcats
and the game should furnish excitement to
all fans.

Lenoir al-

The entertainment Saturday evening by
the Junior class will be in the gymnasium
as usual but this will be the only usual fea-

(Continued on page 2)

Select Senior Orators
Next Tuesday Evening
Twelve or Mare Seniors to Par-

ticipate in Oratorical Contest
Next Week

The preliminaries for the Senior Oratori-
cal Contest will be held on Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 9th. Seniors will
take part in the contest. This feature marks
an event in which the very best speakers of
the Senior class participate and not only is it
an honor to be the winner of this contest but
also to be an entry.

A dozen or more

This contest, besides showing an excel-
lency in public speaking and delivery, will
also show that those participating can do
more than speak as these orations must be
original. Each man chooses his own subject
and composes his own speech. All Seniors -
are eligible for this preliminary. Four
speakers will be chosen from these to com-
pete in the finals at commencement.

The Senior Oratoricals this year promise
to be the best in years, for it is the speakers
who make the contest just what it is, and
this year’s Senior class has a number of un-
usually good speakers. It has six of its
members who are inter-collegiate debaters,
a record which no other Senior class at Da-
vidson has equalled. This fact is bound to
make the contest good anda close one.

The list of the speakers and their subjects
is not yet complete. Those who intend to
enter have been working on their orations all
the while and will have well prepared

number of men are showing up well.

speeches when the time comes,
