8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Fraternity Ideals
to be Emphasized

Dr. Ralph W. Sockman, pastor of the
Madison Avenue Methodist Episcopal
Church and a leader in New York's pro-
gressive pulpit, will be the principal
speaker before the Interfraternity Con-
ference when a two-day session is open-
ed at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New
York, November 25. Dr. Sockman’s ad-
dress will be devoted to a discussion of
fraternity ideals.

Dr. John J. Tigert, United States Com-
missioner of Education, and Dr. Josiah H.
Penniman, provost of the University of
Pennsylvania, will be the principal
speaker at a dinner of delegates to the
Interfraternity Conference and_ visiting
college officials tonight. Dr. Francis W.
Shepherdson, former Commissioner of
Education in Illinois and a leader in na-
ational fraternity work, will preside at
the dinner.

Judge William R. Bayes, prominent in
the New York bar, will preside at the
Interfraternity Conference, at which 200
fraternity delegates and American college
officials will discuss educational and fra-
ternal problems. Robert H. Neilson will
act as secretary. ;

Nearly every college in the country
will be represented at the conference,
most prominent among them Columbia,
Cornell, Illinois, Yale, Penn State, Michi-
gan, Rutgers, Wisconsin, Minnesota, %Gal-
ifornia and others.

Ballot Refused in
Municipal Election

Princeton, N. J—(By New Student
News Service).—A long fight on the part
of The Daily Princetonian to win for the
students the right to vote at’ municipal
elections, a fight begun when the fran-
chise was denied at registration time, has
ended with the refusal of the county
elections board to reopen the case. Con-
sequently, a bitter fight for the Princeton
mayorality passed without the student
electorate‘s participation. And so far as
the state of New Jersey is concerned,
students of voting agé have not the same
privilege accorded the town half-wit.

Whether the politics of the mayorality
fight had any thing to do with a desire
to keep the students from voting, is not
clear, Presumably the opposing candi-
dates. stood with the collegians. But the
election boatd decided that the residence
requirement of five months had not been
fulfilled, due to summer absences, and on
this ground denied use of the ballot. The
Princetonian carried on the fight, and
produced a statement from President
Hibben giving it as the University’s view
that despite holidays, students are re-
garded as residents for a year at a time.
The board remained unconvinced, and

the students also. But the boart had the,

final word.

Sophs Are Delayed

in Forming Plays

Due to the change in chapel exercises
during the fall revival services of the
Y. M. C.A,, the intended sophomore class
meeting was postponed until later in the
week instead of Monday morning as
planned, The meeting will be one of the
most important of the class for the entire
"" fall, according to information given out
‘by the president, Carl Pritchet.

Discussion is already under way con-
cerning the action of tle class in carry-
ing on a junior or senior entertainment
for the student body and the collection
of funds to defray the expenses. This
was begun by the class last year and is
proving an efficient plan for meeting ob-
ligations in the last two years of college
life.

Also, the sophomores are beginning to
plan for their traditional banquet. Com-
‘mittees will probably be appointed at the
- ‘coming meeting to begin advance work
upon the outstanding event of the second
year men. The affair will probably take
place some time after the first semester
examinations and an early start on plan-
ning for it is being taken to insure a
’ successful affair, Pritchett said.

_ Cofty—“Do you think the eyes-are an
_. -.index to the mind?”

_ > Goofty—“No. I know a lot of girls with
bright eyes.”—Texas Ranger.

| the one at Davidson.

Davidson Delegates at
Annual Sharon Meeting

Last Day of Religious Chatauqua
Observed as essa College
ay :

On Sunday, November 2oth, a dele-
gation from Davidson Coilege consisting
of Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. J. L. Douglass,
and six. students attended the annual
Sharon chautauqua held at Sharon Pres-
byterian Church, near Charlotte. The
students attending were: Howard Ar-
buckle, Alan Frew, Jeff Garrison, E. B.
Peterson, C. H. Dubose, and C. B. Yancey.

A religious chautauqua, lasting an en-

tire week, and consisting of programs of
instructional and educational value, is
held at Sharon Church each year by the
pastor, Rev. C. H. Little. The last day of
this year’s chautauqua was given over to
Davidson College Day. Two services
were carried out during the day by the
Davidson delegation. At the morning
service Dr. C. M. Richards preached the
sermon and a quartet consisting of Jeff
Garrison, E, B. Peterson, C. H. Dubose,
and C. B, Yancey gave special music.
After a picnic lunch was served, the aft-
afternoon program was rendered. Dr.
Richards presided and three Davidson
boys made talks. Jeff Garrison spoke on
the “Honor System” at Davidson, while
Howard Arbucle explained how the
honor system is carried into athletics. Our
religious life was pictured by Alan Frew.
The quartet again gave special music.
The Davidson delegation reports splendid
hospitality at the hands of the Sharon
congregation. Dr. Richards feels that
the affection for Davidson in the minds
of the Sharon people has been very much
increased by the creditable program ren-
dered. :
The chautauqua continued from No-
vember 13th to November 2oth. Although
it was held primarily for the members of
Sharon Church, the general public was
invited to attend. The main purpose of
the meeting was to bring to the entire
congregation something of the subject
matter brought out at the summer con-
ferences, Several prominen men_ of
Charlotte delivered addresses on various
topics. One day was given over to the
Greensboro College girls; the Glee Club,
which gave a program at Davidson fur-
nished special music on one day of the
chautauqua. The pastor of Sharon is a
Davidson alumnus. The Sharon com-
munity has been the home of several
prominent students of the college.

James J. Earnhardt, ’28, was married
to Miss Elizabeth Robinson, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilson Robinson,
of Charlotte, on Wedhesday, October 1oth,
at the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church,
with Rev. J, G. Garth officiating. Harold

| Burke, ’26, and James Trotter, ’25, were

groomsmen, and George B. Sorrells,~’23,
was best man. Mr. and Mrs. Earnhardt
will make their home in Columbia, S. C.,
where Mr. Earnhardt is engaged in bus-
iness.

Pat Crawford, ’23, was chosen as the
most valuable player in the Sally League
at the close of the past baseball season,
and was awarded a gold watch by Green-
ville baseball fans as a token of their
esteem at a banquet arranged in his
honor. The title of the “Sally’s Most
Valuable Player” was given to Crawford
after he had been picked as such by a poll
in which all the fans attending the final
baseball game in Greenville voted, and
after sports editors throughout the Sally
League territory had awarded him the
same title. Pat is now coaching football
at Guilford, and will report to the New
York Giants next spring.

On the other hand, the Wildcats have suf-
fered defeats in their last three games, and
have had quite a rest during the last few
days. They also will be ready for a battle,
and will be putting out all they've got. The
outcome of this game means quite a bit to the
Wildcats, If they win, their standing in the
Big Five will be considerably raised, while if
they lose, they will undoubtedly go down into
the cellar for the 1927 season. As has been
said, we hesitate to make any predictions on
the outcome of the game, but we will venture
one statement. It’s going to be one of the
best games played in these parts in quite a
while, and our advice to those who are unde-
cided as to what they want to see, is to choose
It’s going to be an
affair that will be truly worthy of “Turkey

Day.” > : : as

“Y”” Column

The missionary campaign that the Y|
will undertake this year will be a fund |
to be raised in support of the Banner |

| Deputations Go To

Neighboring Cities
ae |
Due to the large number of boys being

Exchanges

Richard Rowden, of Columbus Univer-
sit,y, claims to have the most novel way

Elk School. This school is under the} away on account of the Davidson-Caro-,of earning one’s way through college.

direction of Edgar Tufts, an old David-
son man. who graduated in ’22, and is
located in the"Blue Ridge mountains, near
Boone, N. C. It consists of a- hospital,
an orphanage, a girls’ and a boys’ school,
and has excellent equipment and a very
strong faculty. It is doing a great Wen
among the mountain people and enables
many boys to get an education, who oth-
erwise would have no. opportunity what-
soever to improve themselves. This is
indeed a fine cause, and deserves the
hearty support of the Davidson Y student
body. This campaign will be started
some time before Christmas, and definite
news will be given soon.

ADRES ae

The speaker at Y this Sunday will be|
Dr. John S: Foster, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, of. Winston-Salem.
Dr. Foster was formerly the pastor of the
First Church, of Birmingham, and is the
father of Johnnie, now in school wit Ss.
Dr. Foster has been heard before Wy

Davidson men, and is remembered™by.

many as a very interesting speaker and
an excellent. preacher. He will bring a
fine message, so let’s give him a good
crowd. Let’s keep up the enthusiasm
that we showed while Dr. Vander Meulen
was here.

Shearer at 6:15

Mie are

The Glee Club has already started pre-
paring for the annual Christmas service
that is under their direction. As in other
years this service will consist mainly of a
musical program, and will be conducted
by the student body alone, no outside
speaker being invited as for the other Y
services,

peer | Saar a

The classes in public and personal Par
tation will be started soon, with West-
brook as leader, while the work as a
whole will be supervised by John Foster,
who is in charge of community work.

poesia, | sist

As the time for our annual day of
Thanksgiving comes around, it seems
that we are too easily forgetting the real
and primary purpose of our recognizing
this day, and we are devoting our time
and attention too much to things that
ought to be only secondary to the great
reason for this holiday. A spirit of
thankfulness, ought to enter our lives, if
we only think for a moment of the,great
blessings that we continually ours, if we
but consider the gifts of life, health, hap-
piness, friends, and so many others that
our Father has so freely and graciously
given us, asking only that we take time
to thank Him for them. Is it not little
enough for us to show our gratitude for
these great blessings, by giving our most
sincere thanks especially on the day of
Thanksgiving. Let’s keep ourselves in a
thankful and grateful spirit atemeatty

commemorate Thanksgiving as it should
be celebrated.

Student Poetry is

Honored by Prizes

New York, N. Y—(By the New Stu-
dent News Service).—Sterling North, of
the University of Chicago, is winner of
the Witter Bynner poetry prize, in the
annual undergradate contest. Grace
Hazard Conkling, Edgar Lee Masters,
and Witter Bynner judged the poetry of
the students in all parts of the country.
North won $100. Marion Staver, Barnard
College; and Lucia E. Jordan, Smith Col-
lege; each won $25 prizes.

Honorable mention, in order of prefer-
ence, was given Rhea de Coudres,
Brown University; Marshall Schacht,
Dartmouth College; Walter Evans Kidd,
University of Oregon; Margaret Hebard,
Smith College; Karen Dillig, Carnegia In-
stitute of Technology; John Bryon,
University of Virginia; Ernest Erskilla,

University of Montana; Gladys B. Mer-|.

rified, University. of California; M. Hazel
Harris,. University of Minnesota; and
Donald Wandrei, Uniyersity of Minne-
sota.

Entries for the 1928 prize must be mail-
ed by May 15, 1928. Only undergraduates
may compete, and the poems submitted

may be one or a group, but of not more].

lina football game last Saturday, there |
was no meeting of the Christian Endeav- |
or Training class in deputation work. On!
November, 6, deputation was led by Tom!
Preer at the Presbyterian Church, of
Concord, N. C., where an interesting pro-
gram was rendered. The topic discussed
in this meeting was “How Christian En- |
deavor develops Self-Reliance.” Charles |
Orr, a member of this deputation, render-
ed a violin solo. The meeting was at-
tended by a combination. audience of
two Christian Endeavor societies of Con-
cord.

!
'

On Sunday, November 20, a deputation
was sent to the First Presbyterian Church
at Mooresville, where a program on
“How Christian Endeavor Develops
Initiative’ was rendered. Other deputa-
tions have been arranged for Hunters-
ville and: Statesville, while there are many
Prospects of sending several others to
nearby churches.

Rowden is the official worm supplier of
the zoology ‘department and sells the stu-
dents angle worms at 20 cents a dozen.
That’s one way of wiggling through
college.—Citadel Bull Dog.

The University of Kansas is receiving
a great deal of adverse criticism because
its students maintain rigid restrictions to
keep its colored students from entering
extensively into the life of the University.
The criticism comes from Mrs. Halde-
man-Julius, wife of the Girard publisher,
who says that she “found a bright side to
the. question, in that the administration
of the university holds no brief against
the colored student.”

This lady is to be congratulated on find-
ing a bright side to so dark a question.—

Citadel Bull Dog.

She was only .. taxi-driver’s daughter,
but you ought to meter.—The Bulldog.

Jf
4,

ey

—~H.

2

If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts,

Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat

come in; we can supply your wants

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Sth Door from Bank

= a =a Ss
Mooresville Ice Cream Company |
: Incorporated :

: MANUFACTURERS OF i

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM H

oe o

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.

CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

HATS
SWEATERS

EVENING

oa

Henderson’s
Nov. 25th and 26th.

than 200 lines.

“Exhibition

TIES

DRESS

Showing at

James S. Branch, Rep.

SUITS AND TOPCOATS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS

AND MORE
TAILORED TO MEASURE

FIFTH AVENUE AT FORTY-SIXTU STREET

=
— iN

CAPS
HOSIERY

ACCESSORIES

Jewelry Store
Friday and Saturday

