THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER &, 1927

—————

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

For the past three months this column has
been devoted to the king ‘of college sports,
namely football. But now we must pass on
to some of the lesser sports, which, though
not so outstanding and popular, nevertheless
come in for their share of popular approval
during their respective seasons. Basketball
and wrestling have been started, and the can-
didates ‘for positions on these teams are

|-- Sport Talk -:-|

working hard now and two more Wildest
teams are rounding into shape.

Coach Monk has had his basketball squad
hard at it for the last few days, and the pros-
pects for the year are encouraging. There |
are four letter men back from last year’s |
squad, including Captain Ben Wilson. These |
four men, McAulay, Harrison, Hewlett, and
Wilson, all showed up mighty well last year,
and will no doubt form a strong team this
year. Several other members of last year’s |
squad who did not make letters, will be
fighting for places on the team this year,
and with this much material, the Wildcat
quintet will furnish some strong opposition
in the fight for state honors. The compara-
tively unsuccessful football season may be
made up for byhe basketball team. It does
no harm to have our hopes at any rate.

|
|

Coach Tex, who is taking the place of
Captain Weems as coach of ‘the wrestling
team, has also been putting his charges
through some rather heavy workouts. Quite
a few would-be wrestlers have been reporting
daily for work-outs, and it looks like sdme
good new material may be discovered here
also, The men from last’.year’s team who
are back are Captain Garrison, T. E. Hill,
Flythe, and Malden. Three of these men
made letters last year, and with another
year’s experience and growth behind them,
will be hard to down this year,

~The other post-season game which should

be of interest to the Wildcats is the N. C,
State-Michigan State game. The Wolfpack
upheld the honor of the Old North State by
defeating the visitors from Michigan by the
score of 19to 0. We congratulate the Wolf-
pack on their victory. We were against them
when they met the Wildcats this year, and
every other year for that matter, but now
that they have downed us, we are behind
them and are pulling for them as well as for
the other teams of the state in their games
with teams from other states,

—————

Wildcat Quintet Begins
Work For Initial Game

“Dutch” Hengeveld Coaching—
Several Letter Men Back

In the past three weeks varsity basketball
practice has been going on, and the team is
rapidly being whipped into shape for the
approaching. season. Every afternoon at
4:00 o’clock practice has been held under the
supervision of “Dutch” Hengeveld, formerly
coach of basketball here. Work-outs so far
have been compesed mostly of limbering up
the squad, but since Coach Monk took over
supervision of practice several days ago, the
time has been spent on regular scrimmage.
Work-outs of this nature will be held until
Christmas, and the indications are that the
team will be in good shape for the first
game.

There are several men from last year’s
varsity who will be the mainstays of the
team this year. Ben Wilson, captain of the
Wildcat quintet, is expected to show his
usual good form at center. Charlie Harri-
son, playing guard, is as fast on the basket-
ball court as on the gridiron, and will be one
of the most valuable players. McAulay and
probably Pritchett will probably play for-
ward, Pritchett, captain of fast year’s
Freshman team, has been showing up best
of all the Sophomores, and bids fair for a
berth on the varsity. He is fast, and gets |
about very well on the floor. Andy Hew- |
lett, letter man, but who did not play last |
year, has been showing good form and will |
probably play at forward or guard. Johnny
Kugler also has been going “good with his
usual speed.

From present indications the team will not
have many reserves. There are several men
of the Sophomore class who are making a

Michigan State Bows to
Strong N.C. State Team

Wolfpack Emerges Victorious by
19 Pomt Margin

Rain and mud marked the final game of
Jack McDowall and the end of North Caro-
lina football for 1927. The N. C. State
champs annexed another victory to their col-
umn by defeating the Spartans from Michi-
gan State, 19 to 0, on December 3rd, at
Raleigh.

Pulling together at the very start, the
Wolfpack, with Warren carrying the ball,
put the pigskin across the goal line in the
first quarter. The recovery of a Michigan
fumble by Crum, two runs by McDowall,
and a plunge by Warren spelled the first
touchdown for State.

The other two touchdowns came in the
final period. Warren scored the second
counter, after the ball had been pushed from
midfield to the three-yard line.

Albert Crum, the little fellow from Ham-
let, N. C., was wide-awake in all the mud,
and scooped another Spartan fumble to race
30 yards for the final touchdown of the
game. McDowall passed to Jordan to make
the extra point good.

In the third quarter, after both teams had
filed back on the field in clean, dry uniforms,
it looked like there would be a different story
to tell. Deacon, a substitute Spartan quar-
terback, intercepted one of Jack McDowall’s
famous passes and raced 25 yards to be
downed 15 yards from State’s goal. Passes
and bucks failed to work and the ball went
over. A penalty moved N. C. State back
to her three-yard line, but a short kick, an
intercepted pass, and another kick, put the
ball well out of the Wolfpack’s territory.

The entire game was a muddy affair. A

‘good appearance, and will probably be seen
in the games. Jim Moore and Johnston, at
forward, and Mauze and Baker, at guards,
have been showing up fairly well.

The first game of the season will be with
Salisbury “Y” on December 17, and this will
be the only game before Christmas. Last
year the two games with Salisbury were
very close, each team winning one game and
only. by the margin of one point. The Da-
vidson cagers will be in good condition for
the fray, and rearing to go.

—

will find gifts

Christmas Gifts.
_for Men

In our men’s department one

scription that will please even
the most fastidious of men---
a most, complete assortment

of every de- |

of both clothing and haber-

dashery all

moderatel y
priced---come in and see our
selection.

slight drizzling rain kept up throughout the
| whole game to dampen the spirit of the
|crowd, It was a clipping and sliding fight
all the way through.

Michigan State put up a game fight, but
they could not stand the North Carolina
}mud and Jack McDowall. Dickerson, at
quarterback, and Captain Smith, at half, were
perhaps the Spartan stars.

The box score follows:

(2), Crum; point after touchdown: State:
Jordan (pass).

Officials—Carrington (Virginia), referee;
Major (Auburn), umpire; Early (Miami),
head linesman; Magoffin (Michigan Univer-
sity), field judge. .

Wildkitten Matmen
Showing Good Form

With the close of the football season, the
interest, and some of the members of the
Freshman class, now turns to the equally
testing sport of wrestling.

Practice in this sport has been under way
for several weeks, and indications are that
a well coached and well matched team will
represent the Freshmen this year.. Many
men are now practising, and several others
have signified their intention to try their skill
at an early date. Of these men, some have
had practice in various prep and high schools,
but the majority ‘are now trying f6r the first
time. :

The instruction this year has been placed
in the hands of Coach Tilson and Prof. Paul
Patterson, and these instructors have beéh
putting them men in shape with moderate
work-outs and drill in the fundamentals.
Although it is yet too early to predict the
strength of the teams, Estridge, Boyle, Coble,
Stroud and Pepper, in assorted weights, are
showing up well. A complete list of those
out is: Doduck, Umphlett, Norfleet, Moore,
Stroud, Preston Coble, Pepper, Smith, Mc-
Keithan, Laurence, Jones, Ellis, Estridge,
and Knight.

Michigan State Position N. C. State
Christensen ~.--_- | 6) DY setae ae Jordan
Hétraticscss esas | DY biseeee meee Evans
Moeler .2.. 22-2. - MiG oe Sees Vaughn
ROSS weuesausees Centén -2ccsees> Metts
| Hitchings ----____ RG ---- Nicholson (c)
JOSUNG seen so. ore 1 ee Eee ce Lepo
; Hornbeck ~_-____. RB ee sees Childress
} Dickeson ~--_____ QBs cae Adams
Drew sites. ee ee 1D} s Gap eeeees) McDowall
inith (Cc) acaceee RU 3s eee Crum
SOMA es a4 wee es BB ics see ccey Warren
Michigan State ~-.______- 000 00
North Carolina State _.._. 6 0 0 13—19
Scoring — Touchdowns: State, Warren 5

Davidson Grapplers Fast
Rounding Into Old Shape

To Meet Concord “Y” Here on
‘ December 17th

Coaches “Tex” Tilson and Prof. Paul M.
Patterson are rounding their wrestling team
into shape for their first met, which is to be
held with Concord “Y” at Davidson_on the
16th of December. Professor Patterson has,
for the past two weeks, been giving the men
who answered the call which was given out,
their daily work-outs in the gymnasium, and
as a result of hard work on the part of both
instructor and aspirants, the men are all in
good shape.

Three letter men from last year’s team
form the nucleus around which the coaches
are building their team. »These men are:
Flythe, Tom Hill, and Jeff Garrison. Flythe,
who’ wrestled in the: 129 pound ctass tact
year, is taking strenuous work-outs in the
endeavor to bring his weight down enough to
enable him to wrestle in the 119 pound class.
Tom Hill, who wrestled in the heavyweight
class and was outweighed in practically: every
match, will wrestle in his own class, the 169
pound class this year. Jeff Garrison, who is
captain of this year’s team, and who also
wrestled out of his class, will be back in his
own class this year. He wrestles in the 149
pound class, *

Besides these letter men, there are a good
many men from last year’s Freshman team
who are out for the team and are showing up
exceptionally well, and a wealth of last year’s
reserve material who are doing excellent
work. Some of these men are: Glenn,
Christenbury, Harper, Warren, Pritchett, L.
K., Russell, Morris, Frank Brown, Heriot
and Cox. These men are competing for the
various weights, and all of they are working
hard in an effort to gain a place on the team.

Some of the other meets of the season are
with Carolina, on February 4th, at Davidson;
one with V. M. J., in Lexington, on the 11th
of February; one with W. and L., in Lex-

[Bleachers Will Be

Painted Next Spring

The bleachers will not be removed from
their present resting place around Richardson
Field until some time in the early spring,
according to “Spike” McGee, the slave-driver
of the Freshmen. They will be painted at
that time, and are to remain in the present
position until that time in order that this
work may be facilitated.

In the past, the Freshmen have set up the
bleachers on Richardson Field just before
the beginning of each football season, and
have stored them in the basement of the
gymnasium at the end of the season: In the
spring they were again brought out and
placed around the baseball field. The co-
operation of the various Freshman classes
has served to keep the bleachers in excellent
repair.

Since the stadium has been built, the
bleachers have been stored there, and not
nearly so much work has been entailed in
their storage’ and removal. Up until last
year the bleachers were arranged around the
entire field, but the erection of the stadium
has reduced the need for so many sections.

Due to the fact that the bleachers wif not
be removed from. the field, immediately after
they have been painted and repaired, they will
be moved to the sidelines of the baseball
diamond where they will remain throughout
the spring.

EDUCATOR SPEAKS

(Continued from page one)
be entertained with a banquet. Dr. Watts
is chairman of the entertainment committee
for the occasion.

The men who will be initiated are D. H.
Howard, C. G. Davidson, J. S. Gray, J. S.
McAlister, and H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., of the
student body; Professors Archibald Currie
and H. T. Lilly, of the faculty; and Dr. H.
Stokes Monroe, Mr. Clifton Murphy, Dr.
Joseph T. Wearn, Rey. Locke White, Dr.
W. H. Rogers, Ph.D., Prof. F. P. Hall, and
Dr. F. W. Rankin, of the alumni.

ington, on the 13th. On the 18th of Feb-
ruary, a meet is tentative with either High
Point or Concord. If High Point is wres-
tled, the meet will be held in Davidson; if
with Concord, there. Other meets are with
Duke, at Durham, on the 25th of February,
and one with N. C. State, in Raleigh, on the
27th of the same month.

Pe PCO A VN PA Ye WV PPA MR

Let us help you choose your
gifts. We have an assortment

of goods that

YOUR CHRISTMAS :
~ SHOPPING—

It won’t be long now and the
holidays are only ten days
ahead. Have you selected
your Christmas presents?

true Christmas Spirit and the
prices are made for you. Do
your shopping now.

10% Reduction
ON FELT GOODS

The Students Store.

: yaoi ' (ae :

gale WE AS NR

express that
