THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

Faculty Club Room Furnished
With Carved Table by Dr. Hood

“Y” Column

The checker tournament is progressing
rapidly and will be played off early this
week, After a few more matches the
semi-finals will be reached and from then
on the tournament will be finished in a
short time. The Y is especially pleased
over the interest shown in this series of

matches and feels: well repaid for it
efforts.

Ss

MELEE

Realizing the importance of having
your life’s work picked out and planned,
the Y wants to help every man who is

Hollingsworth Elected

Former Davidson Student Chosen
News Editor of Student Paper at
Georgia University |

The faculty club room, located in the
north end of the old Pi Kappa Alpha hall, |
on Elm Row, will soon be presented with a
hand-sarved library table by Prof, Fraser
Hood. The Quadranglers club, a faculty | >
organization, uses this room for its meetings, | from Davidson at the end of the spring term
|and under the supervision of Professor Er- | faat-yéat-to-edter the University-of Georgia:
| win, is being furnished. Professor Erwin | i

; | will be glad to learn of his election to the
| states that the.room has been much improved | position of news editor of the Red and Black,
|and decorated inside, and that the furniture | student newspaper at-the. University of Geor-

| will be of wicker. The table of Dr. Hood's | gia. Announcement of Hollingsworth’s elec-
|is expected to add much to it. |tion to this high position was contained in a

| Though not finished yet,.the table is * | recent issue of the Georgia paper.

i iece of furniture, and Professor | ;
Reeveeis is pit 1 ki aaitena James F. Hollingsworth, for two years a
| sho yood-working is a | S
eR AE eal . ° a | reporter and staff member of The Davidson-
hobby, and who made quite a study of antique

|
«| ie yas i > tim his withdrawal
furniture while in Europe, states that this | WS until the time of

Friends and former classmates of James
Hollingsworth, ex-’29, who withdrew

to Georgia Paper Staff

Romantic Movie to
be Shown Saturday

Tense dramatic incidents, an incom-
parable love story, together with an un-
dying strain of comedy and the graphic
portrayal of western development join
to make Samuel Goldwyn’s presentation
of Henry King’s film, “The Winning of
Barbara Worth” one of the outstanding
photoplays of the year. This picture ap-
pears at the gym Saturday, February 5.

The dramatic romance, which features
Ronald Colman and Vilma Banky, re-
united on the screen for the first time
since* the production of “The Dark
Angel,” preserves all the salient features
of the powerful novel by Harold Bell
| Wright. It is a glowing tale of those
| pioneers who battled, in the desert lands

f ; 6 Zs 44| from the college one of Davidson’s most | of the West, with the menace of water;
still uncertain as to what vocation he| table is the exact replica of an old table that | ‘

should take up, to make a wise choice in
the matter. And that is the purpose of

promising and prolific journalists. During

| dates c he seventeenth century, in the | *, f f
| dates back to t A) his freshman year he achieved pre-eminence

| Manchestéx, University of England. Pro-|

| first, in its total absence, then in its over-
| flowing presence.

Wildcat Cafe

THE BEST PLACE
AND FOOD

GIVE US A TRIAL

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

printing of any description, see

VERNON S. BROYLES

i in reportorial work, and his subsequent elec- | With E. J. Ratcliffe, hated eastern cap-
i i i ; as spent severi nths in mak- |, ies Sees ith E. J. Ratcliffe, hate s p
the Vocational ‘Guidance ‘Institute that a eee adden iaaaats uh | tion to membership in the Reporter’s Club, | italist, and Charles Lane as Jefferson
is to be held soon—to put th 1 facts! ing this table, and has been asisted by Dr. ‘ ee oe oe nara | 1UE ; é fers
z E A : : and to the position of assistant managing | Worth, Barbara’s father, the motivation
about certain professions before each{ Raynall, of Statesville, in some ofthe hand- | | Worth, ,

QUICK ‘SERVICE

| edi f The Davidsonian c: s tributes | rs BEST PRICES
man and give him advice that he can/| carving. It is of very select oak, and will bs ate a eet as came as tributes | oF the story is in capable hands, Clyde]
y: ‘ s talent. < alty. ; Batting? ; |
get nowhere else. The Y earnestly hopes | finished in dark English oak style, using | oe = ? : ‘ oA ‘ ; | Cook, Follies’ comedian, Sam Blum, and Reet toe
that the Institute will really help many | chemicals to produce a natural aging effect. | Entering the University of Georgia at the | Erwin Connely handle the comedy. The

men to make up their minds as to their
chosen work and that their choices will
be wise ones. 5
SS Ya

A new shipment of Y books has come
in, and offers a great variety of sub-
jects to choose from. Drop by and look
them over,

pen ae

Bishop Mikel, Bishop of the Atlanta
diocese and national officer of the Kappa
Alpha. social fraternity, will speak at
vesper services on Sunday, February 13th.

Plan now to hear this great speaker and
preacher,

Ves

A Ping-Pong table is to be installed in
the Y room soon. With this new game
the Y can“provide a good number of
means of amusement and recreation, and

every one can find something that will
be to his liking,

eS

On Sunday, February 6th, the speaker
at Y will be Dr. Carver, who is a noted
negro scientist and one of the most fa-
mous chemists in the country. He is
well known for his achievements in find-
ing many useful products in the peanut
and also in sweet potatoes and will bring
a message of a practical nature. Be sure
and hear this man, an expert in his
chosen work.

615

®

Sunday “6:18

Weekly prayer meeting services will be!
held at the church on Monday, Tuesday
and Thursday afternoons and also on
Wednesday night.

OUGHS

Every few hours swallow
slowly small pieces of
Vicks the size of a pea.
Melt a little in a spoon
and inhale the vapors.

Professor Hood expects to finish the table | beginning of the college term last September,
Bren neacratrnuenise: , Hollingsworth won immediate recognition

Due to the lack of proper heating facilities, | among the Georgia journalists. His column,
the club room is not being used at present | entitled “Playing the Game,” became a lead-
except for the regular monthly meetings of | "8 feature of the University of Georgia pa-
the club. By next fall, however, it is expect-| Per- His other articles were of equally high
ed to have steam heat, and will then be used | calibre. His selection to fill théspost of news
as a sort of lounging room for members of | editor of the Red and Black was of more

| role of seer is played by Paul McAllister,
| former feature player of Broadway.

| Special music by the complete jazz or-
|chestra will be another feature of the
| performance Saturday night.

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

——

the faculty.

Officers Chosen by
Quadrangler Club

At the last meeting of the Quadranglers
club, a faculty organization, on Friday night,
January 21st, officers for the coming year
were elected. Prof. K. J. Foreman was elect-
ed president, Mr. F. L. Jackson was made
vice-president, and Prof, H. T. Lilly was
elected secretary and treasurer. On the
executive committee were elected Dr. C. M.
Richards and Prof. H. E. Fulcher.

Prof. W. L. Porter, the first president of
the club, was instrumental in its organization
in 1922. It was the outgrowth of a long-felt

cial organization.

During the past year, under the leadership
of Professor Erwin, the club made great
strides toward making itself a vital factor in
the social life of the faculty. Until this fall,
the club has had no permanent place for
meeting, but now has headquarters in the old
Pi Kappa Alpha hall, on Elm Row. It is
hoped that by next fall the club room will be
steam-heated, so that it can be used as a
reading and lounging room. At present it
is being furnished, and the regular monthly
meetings are held there. Professor Fore-
man states that during the coming year out-
side speakers will be invited to address the
club at its regular meetings.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton entertained the
“As You Like It” Club on Friday night.
Mrs. M. T. Smith had a most interesting
paper on the history of Salem.

ICKS

V APORuB

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Book Club meets on Friday after-
/noon with Mrs. J. R. Withers. Dr. Voiles
is to make an address before the club at
that time. .

TUDOR HALL CLOTH
the college man and the
style.

In a quiet manner Tudor

features of authentic style and fine tailoring that have

been adopted at the leading

We are now representing

Weave---a worthy candidate for new honors.

$35.00
BELK BROTHERS. CO.

RATCHET WEAVE

EXCLUSIVELY DESIGNED FOR

Tudor Hall Clothes

Reflecting the college man’s preference

ES are truly designed for

man who favors the college

Hall models embody those

universities.

the Tudor Hall Ratchet

need for some sort of club to get together |
members of the faculty in some sort of a so- |

than ordinary significance in view of the
| brief time in which he had served the paper,
|and presages further honors in journalistic
endeavor for this former Davidson student.

Current Events

The outstanding reaction of informed
Chinese to the pronouncement of Sec-
retary of State, Kellogg, offering to
negotiate new treaties between China
and the United States is relief over the
assurance that America will not follow
Great Britain in het policy toward China.
It is taken to mean that the United States
will not participate in military interven-
tion.

On the other hand the British do not
like the attitude taken by Secretary Kel-
logg and are disappointed in his refusal
to abrogate old treaties until new ones
are signed and ratified by the Senate.

In Coolidge’s speech at Washington on
Saturday he emphasized the need of ade-
quate preparedness for. national pro-
tection, He stréssed his responsibility
and urged adequate \military prepared-
ness in all ways.

“As a nation we stand for peace, and it

can be obtained only through prepared-
ness.”

The unwelcome spectre of immigration
rulings has thrust itself between George
Young, youthful winner of ‘the $25,000
Catalina channel prize swim, and his fat
vaudeville contracts and prospects
| native fame,

for

The 17-year-old Toronto boy faces the
possibility that he will be deported be-
cause he failed to comply with immigra-
tion regulations when he entered this
country on his way to California at De-
troit. As a result Young may be obliged
to return to Toronto and go through the
immigration machine in the regular man-
ner in order to satisfy the law.

‘

High tribute to the beauty of the poems
composed by the late Frank L. Stanton,
oet laureate of Georgia, is paid in a col-
lection of clippings from leading news-
papers in the country, assembled by the
Literary’ Digest, one of the foremost
magazines of America and appearing on
two full pages in the current issue of
that publication. He was compared to
Burns and Riley as he was more like
those two poets than any others.

“He planted seeds of sunshine over the
whole southland that two rays might
burn where only one burned before—and
much of his sunshine has so become a
habit of heart and mind in the lives of
his numerous followers that even in his
death they will be warmed by loving
memories of his skill, his grace and his
modest genuis, He was a man of whom
Georgia and the whole southland may

justly feel proud to have called their
own.”

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Gocds Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Buy Your Suit or
Overcoat Now!

There is nothing so unusual about a
$35” suit or overcoat, but when you buy
ene: that formerly sold for $50, $55 or
even $60 for $35 then there is some-

thing unusual about it---it’s a value !

We're offering values like
that right now in suits and
overcoats made by Brae-
burn, Hart, Schaffner &
Marx and Hickey-Freeman.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N.:C.

