THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

-- Sport Talk -:

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Carolina! Carolina! We. wonder some-
times if Mr. Jake Wade realizes that the
Davidson Wildcats hold the title of State
Champions of North Carolina. According to
Mr. Wade the Tar Heels are the only ones
who have a show for the 1927 championship.
They may win the title this year, we're not
‘saying they won't, but they've surely got a
scrap coming.

It would be very reasonable to expect that
the State Championship team would be fea-
tured at least a few times on the Sport Page
of a nearby daily paper, especially when that
paper is much nearer to the State Cham-
pionship team than to any other team-in the
state. However, Mr. Jake Wade evidently
doesn’t think so. The Wildcat team has been
mentioned only a very few times in the
Charlotte Observer this year, and with: one
or two exceptions, it has never received any
more than a mention.

Publicity is not the thing that wins games,
however, and it may be that when the results
of the games begin to come in somebody will
be forced to change his opinion. It is the
custom of the Wildcats to cause a few upsets
before the season is over, and unless we miss
our guess, this year will be no exception to
the rule. It takes more than material to win
football games. It takes fight, grit, the
Wildcat Spirit, in other words, and good
training. There’s not a team in the state that
has better spirit, more fight, or better training
than the Davidson Wildcats. What the Wild-
cats lack in weight and material they make
up in these three requirements, so it looks like
a pretty even bet to us.

In the first scrimmage with-the-Freshmen
last Saturday the Champions looked mighty
good. The backfield showed up especially
well and the line did its part in fine style.
Grey looks like his old self again, and with
the improvement that is bound to come later
in the season, there’s no telling what he may
do.. Wilson, Harrison, Hewlett, Nesbit,
Kell and Black all looked mighty good, and
when Monk has had time to work with them
a. little more, our bet is that it won’t be an
easy job to stop any of them.

It_won’t be long now till the first game.
Citadel has a mighty strong team, and prom-
jises a fight, but, as has been said before,

--’ they can’t beat the Wildcats when it comes
to fighting. The Citadel team has a reputa-
tion for its fighting spirit and with that spirit
prevailing on both sides, a great time should
be had by all. Practically the whole student
body has signified its intention of going to
the game. Let’s all get there somehow!
There is a highway all the way there and
“bumming” should be comparatively easy.
Let’s be there and back that team!

In their first scrimmage with the varsity
last Saturday afternoon, several of the Wild-
kittens showed mighty good form. Jim Foil,
from Salisbury, at guard, got his share of
the tackles and then some. He showed un-
usual ability to break through the line and
smear up a play, and when playing against a
team a little better matched to the Wildkit-
tens than the varsity, he should show up even
better. Jim was an all-state high school
guard last year. Sissons, at center, also
showed up good in the line,

In the backfield, Warren David, from Wil-
mington, was probably the outstanding player.
He also got a little more than his share of
the tackles. Other members of the team will
Probably show up better later on in the sea-
Son. The idea of the first scrimmage with
the State Champions of North Carolina prob-
ably kept some of them from putting out all

they had, and the next scrimmage will prob-

ably speak a little better for them.

. “Felix,” the faithful Wildcat mascot, is
dead. The close confinement of his cage
geems to have been too much for him, and,
though Doc, Charlie gave him the best at-
ention’ possible, he died during the. latter
i of the summer. Plans are already under
ta.get another mascot, and in a few days
other emblem of the Wildcat Spirit will
tin the cage to take the ‘place of “Felix.”

puder than words. We don’t know just how
#Pe 1926 State Champions will come out, but
ed be willing to bet that it won't be on or

aoe
tne D 3

“Tex” Tilson

Growl of Mascot
Silenced by Death

“Felix,” the veteran Wildcat of Davidson
College, and for several years mascot of the
various teams, has gone the way of all flesh.
During the summer months, he succumbed to
the heat which in the narrow confines of his
cage, poved to be unbearable. Students re-
turning to the campus were. disappointed
when on seeking the growling mascot of oth-
er years, the found his cage void of all signs
of life.

The presence of “Felix” at the football
games in which his namesakes took part,
will long be remembered by the football fans
of North Carolina. He seemed to be most at
home when Davidson met the University of
North Carolina here last year and sent them
home defeated, for keeping his eye on the
ball, as is the custom of all true Wildcats, he
strode up and down in his narrow cage and
shrieked challenges to the doughty Tarheels.
He was also very much in evidence at the
Duke University game, and when it was
learned that Davidson had won the state
championship, “Felix” growled his congratu-
lations to the tune of “O Davidson.”

“Felix’s” ability to make away with
chicken has long been an object of wonder

,|and amazement for many Davidson stu-

dents. The procedure is as follows: A full-
grown hen is thrown into the cage. A lithe
figure leaps down on the hen from above.
An agonized “squawk,” and the wildcat
glares his defiance at the wondering students,
as if he “just hopes that one of them will
dispute his rightful ownership.”

The Davidson Wildcats without a mascot
bearing their name would be like a railroad
train without an engineeand “Spike” McGee,
the cheer leader, has announced that one is
being sought at the present time in the wild
and wooly jungles of western North Caro-
lina. Whatever may be the case, it is cer-
tain that one will be secured in the near
future, and it is hoped that “Felix the Sec-
ond” will be on hand to take part in the
cheering when the football team steps on the
field in Gastonia next Saturday, formally
opening the 1927 season. :

4 e

Included in a very heavy program of
speakers for this year is found the name
of Charlie Paddock, the world-famed
speed artist of the cinder track. Paddock,
well known as, the world’s fastest human,
will come to address Davidson men dur-
ing the fall season, and his coming will be
looked forward to with a great deal of
interest. The Y was able to include
Charlie in the list. of speakers for this
year thanks to the help of the College
Committee on Lectures, throught whom
arrangements were completed.

J. B, Kuykendall, ‘27, was the winner of
$25 in an ad writing contest conducted by
The Charlotte Observer this summer, He
is connected with the Glasgow-Stewart
Auto Accessory Company. ‘ ,

_

Monk and Tex Perform
Wonders With Wildcats

' Build Fighting Eleven From Almost
No Material

STATE CHAMPIONS
Wildcat Backers Hinge Hopes on

Monk and Tev—Known as
“Gloomy Boys”

Sporting writers and football fans like to
call Monk Younger, shown at the left in the
accompanying photograph, and Tex Tilson,
jon the right, the “gloomy boys” of North
| Carolina football, At Davidson College,
| where they coach, they’re looked upon as
| miracle men.

Back in the fall of 1923 Monk Younger
|and Tex Tilson arrived in Davidson, fresh
from the Virginia Polytechnic Istitute, where
Younger had been a gridiron coach for many
seasons, and Tilson had just completed a’
spectacular gridiron career, as a V. P. I.
lineman and captain. They found football
interest at Davidson at a low ebb, and a
scarcity of gridiron material that appalled
them. ;

It had been six years since the Davidson
Wildcats had made any sort of showing: in
state football circles, and there seemed little
chance of improvement with the mediocre
material with which Younger and Tilson
were colled upon to work, When sport
scribes introduced‘themselves to Younger and
asked what he thought of Davidson’s chances
to stage a comeback on the gridiron, he let up
a howl of despondency that was echoed
throughout the South. That was in 1923.
He is still “crying” over Davidson’s pros-
pects along with Tilson, who has stuck by
him in his remorse. They never smile. That's
why they’re called the “gloomy boys” among
North Carolina coaches.

A glimpse at the records explains why Da-
vidson fans look upon them as miracle per-
formers, and why they’ve made such a scram-
ble to retain the two coaches. After a dis-
mal showing during the season of 1923, Monk
and Tex returned to the lair of the Wildcats,
still gloomy, and set to work building up an
eleven that surprised even its closest friends
by the spectacular climb to third place among
North Carolina’s “Big Five.” The following
season, the Davidson Wildcats, now accus-
tomed to the Younger-Tilson tactics, went
through a highly gratifying season and: end-
ed in a tie for second-place honors among the
leading teams in the state.

It was during the fall of 1926 that Monk
Younger and Tex Tilson sprang their biggest
surprise. The wisest sport observers in the
Old North State, impressed with Younger’s
gloom, predicted early in the season that Da-
vidson, with a light team and no outstanding
players, would do well to keep out of the
“cellar” position in the standing of North
Carolina elevens, while a majority of sport
scribes frankly declared that Davidson was
destined to end the season a weak third or a
probable fourth-place contender.

Thanksgiving Day rolled around and
North Carolina fans awoke one Sunday
morning to read in their papers that David-
son had won the 1926 “Big Five” champion-
ship, having passed through the entire season
without suffering a defeat at the hands of a
single North Carolina eleven. Carolina had
been trounced by the Wildcats in one of the
most startling gridiron reverses in several
years, and had bowed to the Wildcats in a
10-0 defeat. The influence of Younger and
Tilson was more in evidence in the strategy
displayed by the Wildcats in that game than
ever before, and the Tar Heels, surprised by
a devastating aerial attack in the opening
quarter, went down before the light David-
son team for the first time in six years.

t
VARSITY SCHEDULE ;

Sept. 24—The Citadel, at Gastonia.
~ Oct. 1—U, of Fla., at Gainesville, Fla.

Oct. 8—Wofford, at Spartanburg.

Oct. 1S—Elon, at Davidson.

Oct. 22—Wake Forest, at Greensboro.

Oct. 29—V. M. I., at Davidson (Home
Coming Day). wee

Nov. 5—N, C. State, at Greensboro.

Nov. 12—U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill:

Nov. 24—Duke, at Davidson (Thanks-
giving).

During Four Years Here,

|
|

“Monk” Younger

EE eeee______________f

Duke University met the Wildcats the fol-
lowing Saturday, and came out on the bitter
end of a 20-0 score. N. C. State had pre-
viously been defeated 3-0. Wake Forest and
Davidson battled four quarters to a 3-3 tie.
The Wildcats and their coaches had “arrived”
at last.

Today Monk Younger and Tex Tilson are
gloomier than ever. before. They've lost

15 letter men from last year’s championship
squad. They have no reserves. Without a
capable receiver their plans for an aerial at-
tack look hopeless. Sport writers prerlict
that Davidson will close the 1927 season in
fifth place. On the Davidson campus, how-
ever, the students have confidence in the
Younger-Tilson combination, and seem little
worried by the gloomy reports that emanate
from the Wildcat lair.

FLORIDA GAME

A vote will be taken in Chapel either
Saturday or Monday morning to de-
termine whether or not the student
body. wishes to have the returns from
the Florida game brought in over a
special wire. Because of the longer
distance it will be necessary to charge
about 50 cents for admission, Tickets
to the game will cost $2.00. Come to

*the gym and save $1.50.

Dick Carr Returns
to Captain Matmen

The prospects for the tennis team for
2927-28 seem rather bright, since two mem-
bers of the last year’s team are back. These
men will be materially aided by a wealth of
reserve and Freshman material from last
year,

Dick Carr, playing third man on the team
last year, has returned to captain the team.
John T. Roddey, who went to the finals in
the North Carolina inter-collegiate meet,
will manage the team this year. His capable
handling of his racquet rates him as number
one man on the team last year, a position for
which he will be fighting again this year.

All of last year’s Freshman team has re-
turned to school. These men—Frontis John-
son, Al, Halverstadt, A. L. DeCamp, and
Ham Pettus, will all be fighting for the po-
sitions left vacant by McCutchen and Mc-
Alpine.

The success of the team in the spring of
1927 gives the aspirants*to the two vacancies
a high goal at which to aim. Beside the fine
showing of Roddey in the State singles, Carr
and McCutchen captured the State Cham-
pionship in doubles for the second consecu-
tive time. On their trip to the North, the
team was victorious in all but one of the
matches.

Last year’s season consisted of five
matches. The Wildcats lost only one of
these, the loss being to the University of
Pennsylvania, on the Northern trip. The
team played on this trip, the teams of Col-
gate, Cornell, and Bethlehem. Their only
Southern match was won from Furman.

It is planned to have a Southern trip this
year through the states of Georgia, Tennes-
see, Alabama, and Florida. Nothing positive
is known on this latter trip, but it seems to
be a probability.

The

CREDENZA, $300.00

ORTHOPHONIC
VICTROLA

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

ANDREW’S

‘213 N. Tryon St.

New

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

" NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C,

,  THURS.,
a.

Mon.,
26

The Movie and Vaudeville Menu
At the CAROLINA THEATRE
FRI,

23

Four big Keith Acts with Dorothy Byton and her Revue

of beautiful Dancing Girls
On the screen, “That Model from Paris” with Marcozine
Day, Bert Lytell.

Tues.,
s 27

| The underworld starring George Bancroft

ON THE STAGE
_ A BEAUTIFUL FASHION SHOW

SAT.

24

Wed.
28

