6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Mattox and Tilson
Guide Cats to Win

The Davidson Wildcats defeated the Char-

lotte Road Club in a baseball game Tuesday
afternon, 13 to 5. The high score of Da-
vidson was due to the making of fifteen
safe bingles while the visitors made seven
errors.

The feature batteries of the afternoon for
Davidson were Coach “Tex’’ Tilson
pitcher anr Coach “Monk” Mattox as catch-
.er. Both were relieved in the fifth inning
by Poole and McGeachy respectively.

Tilson struck out eight men in the five
innings he twirled, while Poole fanned six
in the four brackets he pitched. Dudlin
of. Davidson led the hitting with a triple,
double and single. Watkins for Charlotte
knocked a home run in the first inning.

as

w.
The box score follows:

Charlotte Road Club ABRHOA
Weatleins) 88 eos e 92 122730
Bodie), 2D ssccceue ona ees Aol eel 5
FIGtOH 1B eee soe 40110 0
DGHINS 0. see tose 3-0-0 8]
Sot Obi cusses 402121
Boyt tie sen ee ee 32.2 120)
MMO ot soem eae 40030
Hamilton ip. soseccc estes Cee bebe (ee)
Rogers lf) tucee eas 4000 1
Rota Sara a ee ee ee 00) 08/72/7410
Davidson ABRHOA
WYOoGHamy lb) seman eee 5852 650
DAVIST ie coe pean aces (1b 3 (0)
NeCChojabatorsl, te 2M 22070
Welaviostel, We oo 4. le le 32550)
WORNSOn) Gh aisesae a Chee G4 (1)
MIRON) Giese sone eae te, 2S 7220
IMGGEACKY} CG secscceua 2.8. 1005 0
IWHISON Orso ee 00010
DUD NOD eee 42226, .0).3
Crawiords Zhe cn scee 442) lea
Wynd, Gs 5 02.2710
iSO pie Seabee we ee 200.01

iRROOMG pe se ceeee ee 20) 16 1-2
NWiellg: 2oeces cesta, 100 0.0
Totals

Pie peepee oe ener 37 13 15 27 6
X Batted for Mattox in 4th.

Score by innings:

Ye

R. H. E.

Charlotte ~.______ 100 031 000—5 7 7
Davidson —._____- 703 002 10x—13 15 3

Summary—Errors: Watkins, Bodie, 3,{
Hamilton, Scott, Holman, Dublin Poole;

home run: Watkins; three base hits: Dublin;
Holman, Ratchford; two-base hits: Craw-
ford, Jhnson, Mattox, Littlejohn 2; left on
base: Charlotte 4, Davidson 4. han on
balls, off Rogers, 2, Tilson 1, Struck out,
by Rogers 3, Holman 5, Tilson 8, Poole 6;
wild pitches: Tilson, Poole. Passed balls:
Dennis, McGeachy ; umpire: Hengeveld.

WILDCATS WIN ONE ON
S. C. TRIP

outs: Wells, 5, Sparnell,
Wells, 2, by Sparnell, 4.
On the following day, April 8 ‘the team
met Furman at Greenville. Though Fur-
man took an early lead Davidson came froft4
behind and won without difficulty, 13-5,
Box score:
Davidson 240 200 050—13
Mutman (62 e 500 000 000— 5
Batteries: Davidson, Cathey and Mc-
Geachy; Furman, Fulton and McElveen.
» On Saturday, April 9, the Wildcats play-

4. Walked: by

Scrubs Win Initial

Diamond Encounter,

The Davidson scrubs in their first game |
of the year defeated the fast Lncolnton
6utfit by an 8 to 7 score. Poole pitched
a good game for Davidson but was re-

lieved at the beginning of the seventh by
Ogden who finished the game in good
form. Tom Gheen, a former South At-
lantic pitcher, was on the mound for
Lincolnton. .There were several semi-
pro players on the Lincolnton team, and
considering the fact that the scrubs had
not played to gether before they did ex-
ceptionally well.

The fielding of both teams was excel-
lent. The errors were equally divided,
both teams having three chalked up
against them, The hitting honors went
to C. Beal and Arrowood,
four and Arrowood three’ The teams as
a whole were equally matched, both teams
having nine hits when the game ended.

Features of the yaime consisted of a
three base hit by Ed Wilson with three
men on, a one handed stab by McCol-
gan, three two-base hits by C. Beal, and
some spectacular base running by Haines.

The box score is as follows:

Lincolnton ABRHE
GIltdstoneylit sees coe es 600 6
BGalnG@n gl scelsce coe oe enee. eles
WAN ere ED eoectussoscowet cogs (ses 29 Oh (0)
Goodson; 2b". ones eee seuce (3h (0) (0)
DtAMeCY pte coseseccuee codec en 5 000
WGN rs Seen eco cee Seana is Fir) tes
Gheény: Pp: seocuocsel lees coe 5 01 0
VAIN G Of ons So vee sesso eae 4 0 10
IBGalPelgi iG: eoee cee cece esos tte)

MOtaS secure el eee AVA IY) (a) 6

Davidson AB RHE
IMIGAIN GY; 2D) scvese eee any 5 020
IB CCLGJ Oli G9 ooaecee cue e seas el 4 200
ATHOW.OOU) WD coceeescce sce 2s 41 -8..0
ROOIGH SD cens scan ecco ee 5 f.0 2
MC Golpahi lhe s oes See oe AL 32} (0)
AGH Gt eres eee tb (0)
Wilsons scinsoe tere ee 41-170
aN COCK, 2 6b: seecucsnecn ses 3 00.0
Manbethert es: ie ies. oa 3-10: 1
NOUNSON ss BD eessose eens I 000
Covington, R., rf ».---_--_-____ I1o0oo0

EPOCAISI Awol eh a eane te eae 38 8 o 3

The score of the golf match with Georgia
Tech last week looks pretty bad, but it must
be remembered that the Georgia Tech team
has some of the ranking amateurs of the
country, especially Watts Gunn, and that the
local team did mighty well ot show: up as
well as they did against them. Wolfe did
unusually well in his afternoon match, out-
playing Merriman of the Tech team. Mc-
Gill was matched against Gunn in the aft-
ernoon match, and showed up mighty well,
outplaying’ him at itmes. His 20-ft. putt on
the 11th green was exce ptional, equalling
Gunn’s 25-ft. shot at the fourth hole.

the third inning Clemson’s victory was not
endangered. This game was featured by
three three-base hits, of which two were
made by Clemson batters. Box score:
Davidson 020 000 031— 6
Glémson: fess cose 012 000 43x—10
Batteries : Meadows, . Hampton

Davidson,
and McGeachy; Clemson, Sextén-and Pear-
man,

rl the third game of the trip, with Clemson.
The team struggled valiantly, but errors
were costly and the going slow, and after

From Clemson the team went to Atlanta;
where they played a two-game series with
Oglethorpe University.

Beal getting |

{BOARD OF CONTROL
| MEMBERS ELECTED

(Continued from page 1)
Professor Williams, popularly known by
ithe students and his friends as “Shorty”, is
,a well known and popular member of the

' Faculty. In the past, Professor Williams

has served Davidson as Secretary of the

In addition to the entertainment offered
by the Junior Class, all the social fraternities
will be having house parties during the
week, The advent of the fair sex to the
campus at this time marks the beginning of
festivities, and adds stimulus to the interest
shown in the occasion. With the campus
loverflowing with Alumni, relatives, and
| guests of the students, the college will
| present itself in a light far different to that

quitted themselves well and carried out to
perfection their designated tasks.”

Greatly elated over the success of the unit
was Dr. Frazer Hood, who spoke as fol-
lows: “After the review on Monday, Gen-
eral Williams paid a very high compliment
to our unit and congratulated me on being |
connected with a college that could make so}
fine a showing. And, I was naturally afraid |
that on Wednesday for the formal inspection |

“y”, He has since become a member of
ness Administration, and is also Dean of
Freshmen.

Lingle is very well known, having taken |
a prominent part in class activities, in Da- |
vidsonian and scholastic work. He is Chair-
man of the Committee on General Arrange-
ments for Junior Speaking, and is the re-
tiring Managing Editor of the Davidsonian.
Lingle is also well known in golfing circles
at Davidson.

Bob Kell has served splendidly as pres-
ident of the Class of ’29 during the year
which has just passed. He has also rep-
resented his class on the Student Council,
and is Vice President elect of the Student
Body. Kell is also prominent in athletics,
being on the football and track ‘squads.

Monroe Gilmore is outstanding in scholas-
tic work, having made the Honor Roll both]
last year and this year. He is well known
and—liked by both the students:and faculty.

The newly elected men went into office at
the installation of the Y. M. C. A. officers,
which took place last Sunday evening at the
Vesper Service in Shearar Hall.

MILITARY INSPECTION

(Continued from page 1)

tion, remarked that the boys were exception-
ally well prepared in the work that they had
covered. The general department of the
students was much better than last year.
Colonel Bowen, especially, commented on the
review in the afternoon. Those who wit-
nessed the review agree that the line and
marching of the cadets was better than it has
ever been.” The result of the War Depart-
ment inspection as to whether Davidson will
again be awarded the Distinguished Rating
will not be announced until June,”
Captain Weems.

In a further statement, Captain Weems
gives a word of appreciation as follows: “I
wish to express through The Davidsonian my
appreciation of the fine co-operation of the
students and faculty in making the work of
the year a success. Without the typical Da-
vidson spirit as was shown on this occasion
and on all occasions when Davidson com-
petes with other institutions, it would have
been impossible to have made as good a
showing as we did.”

Captain Elkins was in hearty agreement
with the remark of Captain R. D, Daughter-
ity that “I feel more confident this year than
I did last. Our rating will probably depend
on the improvements of the other units am-
dergoing inspection for the honor.” Captain
Daughterity added that“The battalion did
much better than at any other time I ever
it. The calisthenics were especially
good; and a whole lot of credit is due ‘C’
Company for the interest its members took
in the field problem, which I think made |
quite a hit with the inspectors.”

The three officers were high in their praise
of the interest and co-operation shown not
only by friends and students here but those
who made an especial effort in the battalion
in the attempt to make the day a real success.

Dr. T. W. Lingle expressed himself as
follows: “The general impression of those

concluded

Saw

familiar was that the review was the most

The fellws ac-

the Faculty in the Department of Busi-| delight the unit showed up even better on|

dhas not been announced.

which has appeared in the past three months.
| Backed by the student body and the faculty,
| the rising Senior class is ede to give these
present the thrill of the year, and everyone
is waiting with eager anticipation the begin-
| ning of the program on Friday morning.

that it would not be so good, but to my great

that occasion than in the former. I thought |
| that the setting up exercises were well gone
through with. The review was most excel- |
lent; and the band seemed to me to be better |
than it has been since my connection with
the college.”

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
JUNIORS CONTINUE eee

(Continued from page 1)
gate Junior College in Charlotte. Monk
Maddox’s wildkittens have shown up fairly
well this season, and the game promises to |
be a close one. Tuesday evening at 7:30, the
Y. M. C. A. will sponsor a picture, to be
shown in the Gymnasium. The picture en-
gaged is a special one, and as yet the name

Brown’s Restaurant

17 S. Tryon St.

CHARLOTTE N. C:

THIS HOTEL IS: YOURS:

to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS
no matter how large or how small, we can
serve you.

Regular board--reasonable---and the best
your money can buy.

Music in the evenings.

Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

DAVIDSON, N.C.

bo |

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
Cc. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

A GOOD

BARBER SHOP

RUN BY

THAD L. TATE
Charlotte, N. C.

| Successful one ever held.

[ REO TUTTO TOOT OOOO

\i7e\ie\ii eX"

r
i

tastes.

7XONC NUNC NE NEL NETIC NOTE ND

}

| Tuxedos for Easter Renee

Correctly tailored to meet the most exacting requirement of the college man’s most discriminating

$25 up. Complete line of accessories for formal occasrons.

BELK BROTHERS COMPANY
cia —_—-, .Men Trade

|

ay

Xia

We

axitvaxitvanitvex’

piIvaNit 7a

Naxitvaxtty

“ax

AXA TAXITAXIY

TAN ANION ANIYANITANT ANION

