THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

3

Harllee Branch Speaks
To Charlotte Luncheon
Group About Athletics

Civitan Club Hears of Davidson’s
Football Progress

LAUDS COACHES

Coaches, Players, Students and
Tradition Necessary for Pro-
duction of Winning College
Teams

“Davidson Athletics” was the subject of
a speech delivered before the Civitan Club of
Charlotte last Friday noon by Harllee
Branch, Assistant Alumni Secretary at Da-
vidson College.. This speech was a part of
the program of the regular weekly meeting
of the Civitans, and was made at the request
or Mr. A. L. Foul, manager of the Carolina
Sporting Goods Co., and program chairman
of the Civitan Club.

In ‘his speech, which dealt mainly with
football, Mr. Branch spoke of Davidson’s
first football team in 1897, when the Uni-
versity of South Carolina was defeated 6-0,
but when Davidson was humbled by the Uni-
versity of North Carolina by a 10-0 score.
He then came up through the years to 1918,
relating Davidson’s victories and defeats. In
1918, however, the material was poor and
inexperienced, and the team began to slump.
Enthusiasm waned, and teams that, had beer
literally swamped in the past began to defeat
Davidson.

Mr. Branch then spoke of the coming of a
new era with the arrival of Coaches Younger
and Tilson. With their coming, the David-
son team seemed to take a new lease on life,
and although the first year was a period of
transition, the football fans throughout the
state began to realize that Davidson was
coming out of her slump. Since 1923, the
teams have been fighting hard, winning some
games, losing others, until last year with a
mighty burst of speed, the Wildcats clam-

bered to the top of the ladder, and crouched L

growling over a State Championship.

Mr. Branch talked of the spirit of the team
and the student body, concluding with these
words:

“You ask me what worked to the success
of Davidson, and I answer quickly: Two
coaches with a clean ideal of sportsmanship,
a great deal of clever psychology, an uncan-
ny understanding of human nature and grid-
iron technique—coaches who have threatened
to resign if they once heard of a student
betting for or against his team, men who

- know the power of bought athletes-but look
with displeasure on such tactics—men who
like victory, but sportsmanship more. Two
coaches, yes—and then a team of hard-work-
ing, devoted, clean living players. David-
son’s raw material is mediocre—her finished
product is individually nothing to boast of in
comparison with the great North Carolina
grid warriors. Collectively, however, her
team is as good as the rest—demonstrating

college, and a tenacity of will that really is
more desirable than individual experts and |
stars. Two coaches, a team, and a student
body—that backs their team in victory and
defeat, and think. it has the best team in the
world regardless of its success. But there
is another factor, coaches, playérs, students
—then, tradition. You can fight harder and
longer and more gloriously when you've got
a background, and Davidson has that. Her
team may not win the state championship, it
may finish a bad third or fourth—but, you
can bet your last dollar that it has lived up’
to its traditions, and its done its best. That’s
enough—after all.”

an earnestness of purpose, a devotion to DS |
|

\

TUESDAY NIGHT—TERIMINA-
TION

: (Continued from page 1)
Davidson; R. C. King, Nashville, Tenn.; J.

S. Meacham, Birmingham; R. Z. Johnson,
Barium Springs; W. B. Hancock, Bluefield,
W. Va.

Phi Gamma Delta—R. L. Sutliff, Shippens-
burg, Penn.; C. A. Sisson, Winona,. Miss. ;
F. G. Jenkins, Winston-Salem; J. D. Mc-
Call, Salisbury; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington,
D.C.

Kappa Sigma—A. H. Shepard, Wilming-
ton; D. S. LaFar, Gastonia; R. S. Over-
man, Guilford, N. C.; A. D. Bethea, Dillon,
S. C.; J. K. Pepper, Jr., Winston-Salem;
Charles Glenn, Gastonia.

Laurinburg; G. W. George, Decatur, Ga.;
R. C. Wilson, Marion, N. C.

Pi Kappa Phi—M. P. Gilmour, Wilming-
ton; J. M. Baird, Jr., Oxford, N. C.; A. F.
Carr, Jr., Savannah, Ga.; P. R. Alderman,
Jr., Alcolu, S. C.; R. S. Hall, Covington,
Tenn.; J. V. Middleton, Mobile, Ala.

Reno The Magican
Mystifites Audience

Edward Reno, the magician, appeared in
Shearer Hall, Wednesday night, giving a
clever exhibition of legerdemain. His tricks
were of many types and his skill in the ex-
ecution of them kept ‘his audience in eager
expectation during the entire performance.

This attraction was brought to the college
through the efforts of the Junior class in an
effort to raise funds to assist in the defray-
ing of expenses attached to the festivities
which are planned for the spring months.

Reno travels under the direction of the
Redpath organization and has an assortment
of tricks, up-to-date illustions and sleight-of-
hand magic that places him in the forefront
of his profession.

Not the least enjoyable feature of his per-
formance was the running fire of comment
with which he enlivened his working. These
fragmentary remarks were full of fun and
wit, with flash after flash of good-tempered
satire aizned at himself or his work. Reno
is a man of fine personality and engaging
stage presence, with a keen mentality and an
artistic appreciation of the success he has
achieved in his profession.

Cartersville, Ga.; J. C. Berry, Griffin, Ga.;
E. M. Carroll, Louisville, Ky.; J. H. Foil,
Salisbury; S. C. Scales, Starkville, Miss.
Delta Theta Chi—G. E. McClenaghan,
Florence, S. C.; W. B. Goodson, Lincolnton;
R. E. Witt, Eldorado, Ark.; C. H. Goody-
koontz, Bluefield, W. Va.;-C. W. Wharton,

‘| Smithfield, N. C.; F. H. Salters, Florence,

Sy (ce!

Pyramid’ Club — FraiiR Pilcher, Jr.,
Charleston, W. Va.; G. W. Pay, DeLand,
Fla.; J. E. Weeks, Hertford, N. C.; James
Humphreys, Moultrie, Ga.; C. W. Kuyken-
dall, Charleston, W. Va.

Sigma Delta—R. C. Lynn, Jr., Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.; J. L. Hall, Burlington; W. L.
Burke, Burlington! J, H.. Henderlite, Gas-
tonia; C, H. Farrell, Jr.. Dunn, N. C.; H.
F. Michael, Gastonia,

PRESS CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)
day afternoon the delegates attended the first
of the State College pledge dances.

Friday night the association held its an-
nual formal banquet, after which the press
representatives were entertained at the fra-
ternity dance at Frank Thompson Gym, State
College.

Saturday morning the convention was di-
vided into groups for specialized study of the
various phases of college newspaper work.
This was the most helpful part of the con-
vention for in these conferences the various
problems confronting the various publica-
tions were discussed. The Saturday morning
session was closed with an address by J. L.
Horne, Jr., president of the North Carolina
Associated Press Club.

The convention officially adjourned Satur-
day at noon, but the delegates were once more
entertained by the college, this time in the
way of the State-Carolina football game.

The royal entertainment furnished by State
College and the people of Raleigh, the dis-
cussions regarding every phase of a success-
ful publication, and the valuable suggestiorfs
given the delegates by speakers who are old-
timers in the news world, all contributed to
the greatest convention the association has
held.

Davidson was represented by Walter Lin-
gle, Jr. He is associate editor of The Da-
vidsonian and»feature editor of Quips and
Cranks, and has been outstanding in his in-
terest and work in publications at Davidson.

He—"I'll be late tonight. I’ve got to
write a persuasive letter home before I
come.”

Hisn—“I thought you'd already written
home once this week. Why the sudden in-
terest this week ?”’

He—‘Dough,

”
dough.

dough, de, oh, dough,

COLLEGE POEM
Matriculation
Examination

Elimination,

Cinema Specializ-
ation Suggested as
Course for Colleges

Utilitarians who have been spending a few
happy years berating the- universities for
their failure to deal in the practical, may now
be of good cheer. The inevitable has come
to be, and the University of Southern Cali-
fornia, keeping step with the march of civil-
ization, has introduced a four-year course of
training for the motion-picture industry.

The specified course of study includes ar-
chitecture and fine arts, technique of cine-
matography, and composition, literature and
criticism. As outlined, the study will deal
with the technical phases of the motion pic-
ture industry. Hollywood has not yet been
mentioned connection with the cultural
innovation.

The New York World gives proof of its
interest in Southern California’s venture by
submitting a proposed curriculum. This, in
part, follows:

“Cinema 2b. Osculation. While some in-
struction is given in theory, this is primarily
a laboratory course. During the first semées-
ter the student will work under the direction
of the instructor; during the second he will
be required to perform one original experi-
ment, to be not less than~100-film feet in
length. Eight hours a week, to:count as 4.
Prof. Richard Barthelmes.

“Cinema 3a. Understudying. How to sub-
stitute for Rin Tin Tin without running foul
of the dog-catcher. 1 hour a week. Prof.
Lon Chaney.”

In the meantime registrants in the new
course might begin their work by studying
“The Drop Kick,” with Richard Barthelmes
and the ten college meh who were selected
last spring in a nation-wide search for the
cinema talent. They may begin a reform

movement right at home.—The New Student,

“Aspasia, may I print a kiss on thy lips?”
“Yes, dearest Aristol. When do we go to
press?”

Matches Arranged
For Sharpshooters

Plans for the rifle team for the present
year were recently announced by Capt. Julian
Lake, of Company B, director of rifle firing.
Several matches with other institutions have
been arranged and an open contest for stu-
Hee will also be conducted.

'- Some 50 men are now practicing rifle firing
'and others would probably be taking part but
| for the limited space in the gallery. Lake
| states that 10 or 15 matches will be held with
| other colleges and institutions, amon which
lare, Florida, V. M. I., Citadel and the civil-

ian team from Gastonia.

The open match for members of the stu-
dent body will be held at an early date, exact
time to be announced later. Members of the
R. O. T. C. unit and also other marksmen
from the students will compete for a silver
loving cup which will be awarded the winner
of this match.

Lake, who was captain of the rifle team at
Camp McClellan, has other plans for the
year along these same lines, but withholds
further plans until complete arrangements
are made.

dL,

He—*‘My life is an open book.”
She—"I know, but it’s not good reading
for a girl.”

“Where yo’ all goin’, niggah?”

“Ah’s been rushed by Tri,Kappa.”
“What yo’ all mean, Tri Kappa?”
“K, K. K.,” niggah. Es

Smith—“T don’t know whether it was your
wife or not. I don’t know her very well.”
Jones—"“Did she have a short. dress ?”
Smith—"T didn’t notice the dress.”
Jones—"“Then it wasn’t my wife.”

Professor—"This lecture is apt to be some-
what embarrassing. If any men or woman
care to leave they may.”

“Stewd” in back of room—Professor, may
I invite some of my friends?”

Ain't It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’? :

Py By BRIGGS

MO:

WHEN THe BOSS OFFERS To DROP
You AT YOUR HOME ON HIS
WAY To THE CoUN TRY CLUB

AND WHEN HE GETS To YOUR
HUMBLE SHACK ASKS TH
USE YouR TecerHnone

“AND HE FINDS HIS CIGARETTE
CASE 1S EMPTY WHILE
WAITING ON A BUSY LINE

+: Theta Upsilon Omega—R. H. Walton,

AND You OFFER HIM ONE OF
YouR CIGARETTES WITH Some
HESITANCY, KNOWING THAT HE
SMOKES AN IMPORTED BRAND

-AND THEN HE PRAISES YouR

TASTG IN CIGARETTES To THE

SKIES SLD GOLD
Tis 1s A GABAT MR. SLAKER,
CIGARETTE Ept-: AND NOT A
Novem sT Bee COUGH IN A

CONNOASSEVUR.. 2 CARLOAD
WHAT BRAND 1S IT,

OH-- Boy! Ain'T IT A

GR-R-RAND AND :
GLOR-R-R-RIOVS FEELIN’ ?

The Smoother and Better Cigarette
not a cough in a carload

©1927, P. Lorillard Con, Bote ID

°
