L

*

IOMIE COM

ING

ISSU

=. THeDA VIM SONIAN [7

FOR A BETTER | DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 28, 1927

Alumni Return To Campus For Gala Homecoming

DAVIDSON-CA CADET AFFAIR HOLDS INTEREST ON EVE OF CONFLICT

Virginia Agoresation to
Test Wildcat Strength
in Encounter Saturday

Flying Squadron Holds Edge Over
Davidson Cats

TEAMS ARE PRIMED

Cadets Still Boast Famous Barnes-
Nabers Aerial Combination—
Other Veterans Back at V. M. I.

The Davidson College Wildcats, after hav-
ing had their claws somewhat dulled from
fighting the Demon Deacons of Wake For-
est last Saturday, have been suffering a
manicure during this week in preparation for
one of the biggest tilts of the season when
they mect the Cadets of V. M. I., on Rich-
ardson Field, in the feature of the. annual
Davidson Home-coming Day.

The Davidson team did not show up as ex-
pected in the last game and the resulting tie
came as a surprise to many of their support-
ers, although the game was expected to be a
close affair. The team was somewhat demor-
alized due to a host of injuriés to the regu-
lars, but some fans think that the setback
will do them good’as they have enjoyed a
very successful season so far, and a grim
realization may be the result of the game.

One of the greatest crowds that has ever
assembled in the city of Davidson will be on
hand for the game Saturday. Many of the
alumni of Davidson College will be on hand
for the festivities, while the.loyal supporters
of the Virginia school will probably flock
down from the neighboring state to see the
fracas. Others in this section who will be
interested will see the game because of the
promise of a great game and a resumption
of a fight the two teams staged last year in
Lynchburg.

Last year the teams played in the Virginia
city, the Wildcats coming out on the little
end of a 12-7 score which was due largely to
the attack of two Cadet backs in the combi-
nation of Barnes and Nabors. These two
men took the game from the Wildcats when
it looked as though they were the victors,
and this same combination has been attracting
attention this season.

(Continued on page 8)

Extraordinary Features
on Stunt Night Program

Program Will Consi Consist of Twelve
Complete Acts. .

Plans are now practically completed which
promise that Stunt Night at Davidson this
year will be bigger and better than ever be-
fore. Under the’ direction of the Glee Club,
the sponsorship of Professors Cullum and
Erwin, and the co-operation of the campus
organizations and many outsiders, 12 big
acts, each a separate and individual perform-
ance, have been arranged. The participants
in the program will include the Glee Club,
the Red and-Black Masquers, the Jazz Or-
chestra,, anl many-—individuals.

The Red and Black Masquers will present
a one-act play which will occupy the first 20
or 25 minutes of the program. ‘ This play

(Continued on’ page 8)

Sprint Star Here
for Talk Tonight

Tonight, Charlie Paddock, the fastest hu-
man on earth, will speak in Shearer Hall on
the subject of “Playing the 4Game.”’ Pad-
dock is’ brought here under the auspices of
the Davidson Y, M.-C. A. and will probably
appear on the cinder track fot an exhibition
some time this afternoon.

This world-renowned track star holds 38
out of a possible 40 records for short dis-

tance running. Since 1920, when he shattered
his first world’s record on the cinder-path, he |
has established 17 world sprént records, his |
last track brilliance being at Los Angeles in |
May, 1926, when he stepped off the 100 yards
in nine and one-half seconds. Later in the
same year he shattered the 250 meter record.

Paddock has been a member of America’s
successful Olympic teams and has defeated
the fastest racing talent in the world. But
besides this, he has had a varied experience.
He has been a cowboy on a western ranch, a
movie star, a soldier of the A. E. F., a Sun-
day School teacher and a globe trotter. His
best known movie work was with Bebe Dan-
iels in “The Campus Flirt.”” He began teach-
ing Sunday School at the age of fifteen and
continues to teach his class of young men
when he is at his home in Pasedena, Calif.

For several years Paddock has been.a spe-
cial writer for a large group of western
dailies and this work has thrown him in con-
tact with leading personalities in this coun-
try and in Europe. He made a tour of the
world in 1924 in friendly competition with
leading athletes of eight nations.

Those who have been in close relations
with this phenominal start say that he has
been able to continue his participation in this,
inost strenuous of sports, for seven years
because of clean living and honorable sports-
manship.

Glasgow Lectures
to “Y’” Audience

Those who attended the Y Vesper service
Sunday evening heard “Tom” Glasgow, as
Davidson affectionately calls him, in what
was the most gripping talk of the year. Dr.
Arbuckle paid him a glowing tribute in in-
troducing him, when he said, of all the con-
spicuous Christian leaders in Charlotte, Tom
Glasgow is the most loved.

On rising, Mr. Glasgow began: “I’d break
almost any engagement to speak to the Da-
vidson student body. Why? Because} I con-
sider in so doing, I’m having a part in
forming the future of the Southland. Fel-
lows, I admire your spirit of cleanness, your
fine sportsmanship, your love of fair. play.
There is an atmosphere here that one does
not find elsewhere. Perhaps every one who
speaks here tells you that, but I respect it
because I think it’s the finest thing you have.
Your school can lose many other things but it
cannot afford to lose its admirable morale.
Consider well that a school cannot be built
with marble or granite alone. It; is judged
by the product it puts forth to blossom in the
world.”

The topic for his talk was, “Fihd Mea
Man.” “Find me a man,” he said, “a level
headed fine Christian man.” “Perhaps the
fundamental requirements that this man must

(Continued on page 3)

LEADS WILDCATS |

=

Dick Grey

Wildcat Captain Holds
Name of Triple-Threat
Player, Par Excellence
Given Place on All-State Team in

1926 by Sport Scribes of North
Carolina

When Captain Dick Grey enters the game
against V. M.“I. tomorrow, it will be the
twenty-sixth time that he has played on Da-
vidson’s Varsity. For three years he has
thrilled crowds throughout the South by
demonstrations of his triple-threat ability.
Much credit was due him when the Wildcats
won the State Championship last year for his
educated toe, which he used in sending the
ball through the goal-posts for six perfect
drop-kicks,

Twice these three points won games—from
P. C. and N. C. State—and another caused
a tie with Wake Forest. Not only does he
use his toe in drop-kicking but he bears the
brunt of the punting for the Presbyterian
team. All during last season his punts aver-
aged some 45 yards...

Grey does not hesitate to take advantage of
an opportunity to run with the ball for dur-
ing the recent game with Elon, of 512 gained
by the team, the captain gained 290. He hur-
ried through the Elon line for one run of 54
yards fo rthe first touchdown of the game.

It is a rare sight to see an opposing player
get by Dick’Grey who holds down the safety
position in great style. He is ready for every
punt and often makes returns of from 35 to
50 yards.

The Wildcats’ leader had never tasted de-
feat in a football game until his sophomore
year in college. During his prep school days

Phi Beta Extends
Bids to Graduates

Announcement was made Wednesday by
Prof. Kk. J. Foreman, secretary of the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa,
national scholastic organization, that of the
alumni bids to membership extended, the fol-

lowing have accepted: Dr. F. W. Rankin,
Rochester, Minn.; Dr. Joseph 'T. Wearn,
Cambridge, Mass.; Rey. Locke White,
Staunton, Va.; Dr. W. H. Rogers, Ph.D.,

Tallahassee, Fla.; Prof. F. P. Hall, Belmont,
N. C.; Prof. Archibald Currie, Davidson, and
Prof. Henry T. Lilly, Davidson.

This statement follows the acceptance of
bids by five men in the present student body,
those being D. H. Howard, Lynchburg, Va.;
H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson; C. G. Davidson,
Chester, S, C.; J. S. Grey, Richmond, Va.;
J. S. McAllister, Greenshoro, N. C.

Initiation of these men will take place on
December 9th, when a distinguished speaker
will be provided for the ceremony.

Dr. F. W. Rankin, of the class of 1905, is
mow on the permanent surgical staff of the
Mayo Clinic, at Rochester. Following his
graduation at Davidson, he entered the Uni-
versity of Maryland, where he received his

>| M.D., after which he accepted a professor-

ship in the University. Dr. Rankin was in
the University Hospital and later in the Bal-
timore City Hospital. With the outbreak of
the World War, he entered the service and
was with the First Division of the A. E. F.,
serving through Chateau-Thierry, Soissons,
St. Mihiel, and Argonne. After the war his
work was in the City Hospital of Louisville,
Ky., where he remained for some time. Hold-
ing a permatient position in the Mayo Clinic,
Dr. Rankin is considered as one of.the fore-
most surgeons in the United States.

Dr. Joseph T. Wearn, 1913, received his
M.D. degree at Harvard University, follow-
ing his stay at Davidson. He served with
the U. S. Army during 1917-18, after which
he was made Professor of Pharmacology in
the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Wearn

(Continued on page’ 6)

<a
PROGRAM FOR SATURDAY

11:00 A. M.—Parade by R. O. T. C.
Battalion. :

11:15 A. M.—Exercises in Stadium.
1. Singing of “O Davidson.”

: 2, Addresses of Welcome:

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of

the College.

Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27.

Speech :

Dr. J. P. Munroe, ’82, of

Charlotte, N. C.

Speech:

Mr. J. J. Love, '19, of Quincy,

Florida.

Speech :

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D. D.,

05, of Richmond, Va.

Summary of Season:

Oren Moore, '08, of Char-

lotte, N. C.

1:00 P. M.—Luncheon in Gymnasium
for Alumni and their Wives. .

2:30 P. M.—Davidson-V. M. I. Game
on Richardson Field.

7:00 P. M:—“Stunt Night” in Shear-
» er Hall.

oy)

—E

3,

4.

5.

6.
Dr.

(Continued on page 7)

Luncheon in in Gymnasium
for Exes and Wives is .
Innovation on Program

eee Talks to Feature Outdoor
' Exercises

ST UNT NIGHT TOO

Hundreds of Old Grads to Make
Way Back to Jaybirdsville
Tomorrow

Saturday will witness the return of hun-
dreds of old graduates who will visit the
campus to renew acquaintances and to ex-
change reminiscences of their undergraduate
life. It’s the annual Home-coming Day.
Through the efforts of the alumni secretary
a record crowd is expected, and an elaborate °
program has been arranged for their enter-
tainment. This program, which contains
many innovations, will start at 11 o'clock in
the morning with a parade by the R. O. T. C.
Battalion, and will continue throughout the
rest of the day, ending with the “Stunt
Night” program at 7:00 o'clock in the eve-
ning.

Immediately following the morning parade,
the students and alumni will assemble in the
stadium, where appropriate exercises, includ-
ing brief addresses by a number of promi-
nent alumni, will be held. The singing of
“OQ Davidson” will open these exercises, and
then welcoming addresses will be given by
Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college,
and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni sec-
retary,’ after which Dr. J. P. Munroe, ’82, of
Charlotte, N. C., will tell “How the Wildcats
Licked Teams in Olden Days;” J. J. Love,
19, of Quincy, Fla., will bring the Florida
game back to Davidson in “How Davidson
Clawed the Alligator,” and Rev. W. T.
Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, Va., will
dare a prophecy in “What V. M. I. is Going
to Do to the Wildcats This Afternoon.” Dr.
Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, N. C., will
give a brief summary of the year thus far in
“How the Wildcats Have Been Winning
This Season.”

At 1:00 o'clock luncheon will be served in
| the gymnasium to all of the alumni and their
| wives. This is the first time the Home-com-

| (Continned on page 5)

Juniors Abolish Euler
_ Holiday Affair by Vote

| Speaking Program Changed to
Later Date in April

After spending several weeks in the con-
sideration of the Junior Speaking question,
the class of 1929 decided that the custom set
by previous classes was not to be accepted by
the promoters of the function for this year.
The affair will not be held during the spring
holidays as heretofore, but will occur during
some week-end, the suggested date being
April 28th.

The plan, as presented by Riggs McConnelt
and accepted by the:class, calls for the Junior
Oratorical Contest in Shearer Hall on the |
night of April 27th. This contest, which was
won by John McKnight last year, is,open for
}all members of the Junior class.

(Continued on page 8).

