unusual praise and credit for their work. |

.

“who are handling the work over to them.

TH

E DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

AS THE ATHLETIC
EDITOR SEES If

BY RAYMOND LAKE

TPE SE TI SS TY TT hd

|
The game with Lenoir-Rhyne last Friday |

just shows again what a Davidson can GOlf Team Defeated by
vated ths coum st neck itat the ton SAlisbury Players Under
Disagreeable Conditions

hadn’t learned to work together as a unit. |
Well, they've learned the trick now, and |
they've put it into practice to perfection. |
Team work was the outstanding thing in the
game Friday; and the whole team deserve |

Winds and Wet Links Make Playing
Difficult—McGill and Wilson
Win

‘
»

; es : | ayi nder favorable weather condi-
The old jinx which has kept the play-| . Pyne eu ; ae
sae | tions, the Davidson golf team met defeat at

ers from hitting as well as they should have | :

i | the hands of the strong Salisbury country
so far, seems to have flown away too. Sev- | ae
pale 13 TOE ite dabarnieee 1 y | club team Saturday afternoon on the Salis-

al reasons s depa ave been sug- | : ; f j
me, P ebb 4B | bury links, McGill and Wilson being the
gested, but we are at a loss to determine | ; : :
: ; $ F only Davidson men to win. their matches.
whether the credit for its~flight is due to, ;
the fact-that “Doe! Charlie liad bon his | The golf team is composed of S. W. Mc-
e fac E jarlie had bo AIS eas ; ;
eraestinecantl Hie ealPe Peak | the game | Gill, Billy Wolfe, A. L. Mills, J. I. Love, B.
seshoe and his ra s foot a zame, : j ;
ere oe teal | A. Wilson, and R. M. Menzies, McGill and
or whether it is due to the fact that the : heaps
eae | Wolfe were conceded the first two positions,
game was played on April Fool’s Day, and ; nai ‘ bee
nen | while Millis, Wilson, and Menzies
that we had an unusually enthusiastic rooster |
nresent to help cheer Che texni 16 ulat were elected through the tournament played
ssent to help cheer the team on to victory. ; ‘ Fi
: : al edad | off last week in which the best golfers in

Whatever be the cause, we are gi: see ea : :
TO ME ce ee ye tbs Mae) i | school participated, Love and Mills will play
the team hitting better, and hope that they | ° i ; ee
f “ | in the finals for third position.

can keep it up. Captain W. am seems to | ; ‘

ee aed My Boonie Sects tO | It is expected that a return match with the
have started the ball rolling when he knock- | Galisnury tenn will be played GA the Davids
ed a three-bagger to left field. Peraeerce asia utd :

son course in the near future.

Love,

Dulin’s fielding was one of the many out-| The team is working hard. in view of the
standing features of the game. -H@ skillf ful: fact that on Saturday, April 9th, they will
catch of the long fly to left field was sen-| encounter the strong Georgia Tech. team
sational, and his throws to first and second | on the Charlotte links. This team has sev-
were as accurate as could he wished for. | eral outstanding players, and a very inter-
esting match is assured. The members of
the student body are invited to attend the
match, and thus to support the team and
urge them on to do their best!

Rains Delay Fresh

Tennis Tournament

Well’s pitching was also an outstanding |
feature of the game. His headwork was |
such that it could not be criticized, and his
pitching was equally as good. He struck out
a large number of men, and played an un-
usual game from start to finish.

The other members of the team also de-
serve special praise. They kept their heads
up, fielded to perfection, and played an ex-
ceptional game. The number of errors made
was—much smaller than the number made
in the Elon game or in either of the Oak
Ridge games. They all seemed determined
to win, and they fought and played with a
spirit that enabled tlfem to realize their aim.

In spite of a good deal of rain and other

intervening complications the tennis tourna-
ment for the Freshmen is coming along in
good*shape. All first round matches, with
the exception of one have ‘been played -off,
with those who were expected to win com-

ing through in fine shape. Seyeral second

The freshman team has shown a great
deal more improvement during the last week
than during the week just preceding. No
further changes have been made in the line-
up, but the various players seem to have
gotten more used to their work and to their
respective positions, and are fast rounding
into a first-class Wildkitten team. A  suf-
ficient number of good pitchers are out, and
there is plenty of good material to fill the
various other positions.

round matches have been completed, and it
is in this round that two. upsets have already
occurred. The entrants as a whole, display a
much better form of play than those who en-
tered the fall tournament. As the list nar-
rows down by each round, hotter, closer and
more interesting matches! are expected. The
tournament was to have been completed this
Saturday, but on account of rain, and in-
ability to play off matches, it has heen very

The Freshman track squad overwhelming-
much delayed.

ly defedted the Catawba squad in a meet
at Catawba last Saturday by a score of 75
to 25. The Wildkittens took every first
place and didn’t give their opponents a
Stew. If they can just keep up the good
work and do as well in proportion when
they meet stronger teams, their season
should be a very successful one, to say the
least. ;

Two out of three sets are necessary by
the rules of the tournament to decide all
matches, until the semi-finals are reached.
Then three sets out of five will determine
the winner. The team will consist of the
four men reaching the semi-finals, who will

be subject to challenges from other appli-

The track team was defeated again in cants who have been eliminated in the earlier

the State meet last Saturday, but, just as in
the V. P. I. meet, they lost several points
because of hard luck. Captain Goodycoontz
was boxed in the 440, and, in passing a man,
lightly brushed his arm, and was disqualified.
Several more points would have been certain
had he not had this difficulty.

If the high jump were the only event in
a meet, State College should be able to com-
pete with the best teams in the country. They
claim to have four men who can jump 5 feet
10 inches, and they have one man who can
jump 6 feet 1 inch as was proved in the
meet Saturday. Calhoun dropped out at six
feet while McDowell, of State, jumped 6
feet 1 inch, thus breaking his college record.
Calhoun is an excellent high jumper ,and
when he takes only second place in a meet,
everyone must acknowledge that his opponent
must be an exceptional jumper.

rounds of «the tournament.

The men who are still in the tournament
are as follows; Halverstadt, Coker, Gardner,
Brown, DeCamp, Apple, Anderson,
Mathews, White, Pratt, Josnston, Pettus,

McNair, and Whittle.

These men have been showing exceptional-
ly good form in their past matches and with
the chances of a position on the team rest-
ing on their respective matches, it is certain
that they will do their best in the matches
which are to come.

CABINET OF Y. M. C. A. CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)
has been one of the most ’active cabinets
that the “Y” has had in a good many years
and the new staff will have to do their ut-
most to live up to the pace set by these men

UNION -THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Introducing to the readers of

MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
peel
Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

Wildcats Lose to Elon

Sluggers by 7-3 Score
in Third Game of Year

Wildcats Field Well, But Unable to
Hit as Well as Visitors

Lenoir-Rhyne Defeated
in One-Sided Encounter

With Fighting Wildcats

Members of Team Show Improve-
ment in Hitting

Last Tuesday, the 29th, the Davidson
Wildcats went down in defeat before the
Elon Christians by a score of 7 to 3. The
game was fairly well played for this ¢arly
in the season, and was hard fought the whole
way through. :

The pitching of Briggs, for the visitors,
hits in the first, sixth and eighth innings to] featured the game. Allowing five hits in
defeat the Lenoir-Rhyne team here Friday |.the first three innings by which Davidson
afternoon by the score of 11 to 3. The team) scored three runs, he tightened up and al-
from Hickory used four pitchers in their | lowed the Wildcat sluggers only one hit i
attempt to tame the Wildcats, but all proved | the last six inning
of little avail.

Opening the first inning with a triple and
a pair of infield hits, the Wildcats, pushed |
across three runs. Later in the game the |
Wildcats found their batting cyes for the

second time and knocked out three consecu- | '
; j The fielding of both teams was fine, espe-
tive doubles to score another three runs. in |

hoe | cid 2 Wildcats, who m aly
the sixth. In the eighth inning they put the | cially that of the Wildcats, who made only
Re RWEO Wht four Hoke Tine to their | oe error, while the Christians were not so
a aieed : | lucky, having four chalked up against them.

credit. | :
; F ams played heads-up ball and fielded
Wells pitched his second successful game, | Both teams played heads-dp

; ‘ | é ast a ne ‘
and aided by himself and his teammates, ac- | the ball fast and snappy
cumulated 11 hits from the four Lenoir-
ee hurlers.

WELLS STARS
Good Fielding an Outstanding
Feature—Team Works Well
Together—Dulin Stars

The Wildcat baseball team grouped their

s, this line blow coming
lin the ninth inning. =

The score was tiéd in both the first and
third innings, but Elon drew away in the
| fifth’ when’ they scored one run and later in

the eighth when they scored three more.

The hitting honors of the day went to
| Elon, who garnered 12 hits, twice as many
/as Davidson. Sims, of the Elonites, led the
sluggers, getting three hits out of five times
at bat, a fourth of? the hits gotten by his
team. Captain Woodham, of the Wildcats,
secured two of the six safeties allowed his
team and also’scored two of the three runs.

This makes, the second defeat for the
Wildcats in three games, the other defeat
being that of Oak Ridge:

The box score and summary :

Frick was the only man on the Hickory
team to hit the ball hard enough for it to)
count for extra bases. His extra base hit |
came in the seventh when he smashed ut a |
triple. |

Dulin, Johnson, ana Captain Woodham
sent the ball out for three-baggers. Captain |
Woodham also got a swat that took him to
‘the middle station.

Box score and summary:

Tournament Now On
for Varsity Tennis

The present tennis season has introduced
a novel and effective method for selecting
the members of the varsity team. A schedule
known as the “Ladder” has been drawn up,
and on this “Ladder” have been placed the
names of all men desiring to try for a place
on the team. Any man is at liberty to chal-
lenge any man above him on the list to a
match. If the challenger is victorious, he
displaces the loser, thereby bettering his own
position and drawing nearer to one of the
first four places, which, of course, constitute
the varsity positions. In direct contrast to
the old method, a man is not dropped from
the squad if he loses his first match, but is
always free to challenge again in an effort to
regain his standing. The “Ladder” has been
a great success so far, keeping interest at its
highest pitch and promoting vigorous com-
petition at all stages.

In order to enable the four ranking players
to work together and to develop teamwork
as much as possible before scheduled meets
with other schools, a rule has been made
stating that no challenge shall be issued,
within three days of a meet, to any of the
first four men. This is known as the three-
day rule. The four men who are leading at
present will compose the team that meets
Furman University here on April 5th. These
men are Captain McCutcheon, Roddey, Carr,
and Alexander. McAlpine, letter man from
last year, is pushing Alexander hard and may

move into the elect circle very soon. Dan-

‘jels, Bradley and Christian are all showing

up well. None‘of the positions are cinched,
and it is ‘entirely possible for a lower man
to win-his-spurs by consistent playing .

‘Immediately after the holidays, the team
leaves for Chapel Hill, where the state meet
will be in progress for three days, beginning
with April 21st.

top form in order to maintain her past. rec-

Davidson must play in tip-

ords at state tournaments, and judging from
. oo“ . .
the interest and enthusiasm being shown

now, the Wildcats.will do that very thing.

| Elon. BRHOA
| Lenoir-Rhyne ABR H OAN Cie, oh Dara eee
lec Cee Sera 4 0°2- @. 4117
WiIHISHANt Of eaten sce Leek ae 3°00 4 0 Gilliam, 1b 5 0 011 0
HOW tose 40-1) O20 eee : EAT AT THE
on eat Ah oA Braxtony: Cl cacsssussese ss Silo) 20)
I ea a Riser int sinh oe 4-6 0410. 01 Simmsyett ces sseccs ease ee 0).6) 3.0 ad
Cc (Ay SD py year payne key ayers - ? e
peat) : | Eile (gop ede ee : 15
OUNDN) TE <-on-secomnnnn- ye Ol aie 4: i sae aaa 3 ; 1 j 0 ASTOR LUNCH
Glémmervic 2eeszece is see 40 0 3 2) Ho le ve Bo i ag
cL Clay eee eee GAP 0 O OW Caen ee eae,
IRN VNePieno ee cece ee cee 000 0 1) Sd DY ici eeateectaee ee ie SERVICE
IBTOWN Desc ssaesaea aoe Oo lek alk 3) Morale 8 38 7 12 27 12
, Reith ah -eree ane pocatakate ebehes bape aacna a at ne
lean PuCu tale a RA ‘4 5 ; Al Davidson ABRHOA ad
| ee BE Se epeean neers ft etherO ol Nyercnaty 10 eet Ae
[cs ldo aaa PMUrfayy tt oo oo22252 eee 20 0.4 0
MotlWicesc cao 33 3 24 16| Ratchford, If -—----..___. 4 0.1 2 01! THE BEST OF COOK-
| xBatted for Coulton in ninth Johnson, cf ------+-------- i es
fee fe ayes Bia Gle Gaeta as eee 4-0 }e2 1 ING
Davidian Poe ee Geers 00 ee
| AWiorordboyeten), tlh) Re 2 1S TY reunler a Abe fe eal oo
Davis, 1h eveecoseenecoaa ee a ae Charlotte, N.C. «
atGhtOndGelit seamen ers Bh ye bee iP es x
WTONNEOHRe tor. o8 ac uce 4 21 1-0) Cathey, Pp ---------------- AU \ oa
Bint he ee eu eae Wie © (Continued on page 3)
| Crawford, 2b. ----------.- 30 0 2 il ~G= )
< pros ? ~~ . . . = .
aig ithe aig ‘ : ; , Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
INVGlN ap ee cae ee ake Wao : and Goldsmith
a UN a ce ee Myers Hardware and Sporting Gocds Co.
eotals: aveee ees ee 35 11 11 26 13) CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Score by innings: R

——

000 030 000— 3.

Lenoir-Rhyne

Davidson s222 825 es 300 103 04x—11, (oz
EFrors: Frick, Wordham, Davis, Craw-
ford; three-base hits: - Frick, Woodham, Fresh Country Vegetables

| Dulin, Johnson ; two-base hits: Wells, Wood- |
ham; sacrifice hits: Whisnant, Johnson, |
Crawford; stolen bases: Davis, Johnson; left |
on bases: Lenoir-Rhyne 4, Davidson 6; base |
on balls: off Ryan 1, Brown 2, Mooney 1;|
struck out: by Brown 1, Spurlock 1, Wells 6;
hits: off Rhyne 1 with 2. runs in 1-3 in-|
nings, off Brown 8 hits with 5 runs in 6 2-3 |
innings, off Mooney 2 hits with 3 runs in 2-3 |
inning, off Spurlock 1 run with no hits in|
1-3 inning; umpire: Mattox.

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

woeaasansssnasasasassaansassssasssaeaesassm

FELLOWS!

You’ll always find a well-
equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

rrr rrr rr irri tri rt r~rI rrr irirrt

Cy

Cerro rrr rrr

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

15E. Trade St.

| EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes

Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery
The Vogue

THE SHOP FOR MEN

Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

CHARLOTTE, N. C.:

