ONIAN |

DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., FEBRUARY 17, 1927

DEBATING SCHEDULE TO Preliminary Ballot for. = WILDCAT QUINTET ADDS»
INCLUDE MEETS WITH _ Neris Athletic Trophy =" TWO VICTORIES TO ITS

EIGHT FORENSIC TEAMS

Various Teams to Be Composed of
Ten Debaters in all — Subjects
For All Debates Anounced by
Wharton

What is probably the great@st debating
schedule that has ever been arranged at Da-
vidson for activities during the
spring, has been announced by Don Wharton,
head of the Forensic Council.

forensic

Two debates being scheduled for theshome
platform, one each for Queens College, and
Greensboro, a northern trip, and. finally a
freshman debate the University
North Carolina, provision has been made for

with of

14 men to represent Davidson in this elab- |

orate speaking program.

The first debate of the spring will be with
Johns Hopkins, of Baltimore, March 25th,
at Queens College, on the query, “Resolved,
That the United States government should
adopt uniform marriage and divorce laws by
national legislation.” Davidson will defend
the negative side of this question.

Following this, Davidson will meet Emory
University, of Atlanta, to debate the ques-
tion, “Resolved, That the United States gov-
ernment should recognize Soviet Russia.”
-This contest will be held at Davidson, March
29th, with the home team again defending the
negative.

Next in order will be the northern trip,
during which William and Mary, Gettys-
burg, and Rutgers, will be met to debate the
question, “Resolved, That the United States
should cancel inter-allied war debts.” Dates
for this trip are April 1-7 inclusive.

Duke University will be met by the team
that debates with Johns Hopkins with the
same query being used again. This debate
will probably be held April 29th, in Greens-
boro, and will be an open forum-split team
debate.

On May 3rd Sewanee (University of the
South) will come to Davidson to debate the
question, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act

(Continued on page 3)

oO. D. K. to Convene

“at Virginia Circle

Beginning today, and continuing through
Saturday, February 19th, the Seventh Na
| tional the Delta
Kappa Honorary Fraternity convenes at the
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
The Omicron Cirele of that institution are
hosts of the association with convention head

Convention of Omicron

quarters at the Colonnade Club, located on
the University campus. All sessions of the
Lconvention will be hel din Madison Hall.
The National of
Delta Kappa are held bi-annually, the last
several conventions having been held at Wil

Conventions Omicron

liam and Mary College, Centre College, Uni
versity of Richmond, Pitts
burg, and Washington and Lee University.
The choice of the University of Virginia tor

University’ of

this year’s convention was an excelent one,
‘the University, founded in 1819 by Thomas
Jefferson, having been closely interwoven,
during its century of existence, with the in
tellectual life of a great section of the coun
try. Also, it has numbered on its Board of
Visitors three President of the United States
—Thomas Jefferson, James
' Madison, and Monroe. In addition,
the City of Charlottesville and its County,
Albemarle, eontain many places of historical
interest, including Monticello, the home of
! Jefferson, which homestead he personally de
' signed and built and which was the scene of
| his death.
}importance are scheduled for those atend-
ing.

its founder;

James

Visits to this and other places of

The Davidson College Delta Circle of the
fraternity has sent as its delegate W. T. Cov
ington, senior and prominent memher of the
Delta
Kappa circles; H. M. Austin, likewise an
outstanding man on the campus and influen
Dr.

student body and high in) Omicron

tial in O. D. K. cireles, being alternate.

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. M. C. S. Noble to Speak to College
Students on Teaching as Life Work

“No man is a ‘born doctor,’ but any man
who is willing to apply himself can succeed
in the medical profession,” declared Dr. J.
N. Nothington, prominent practicing physi-
cian of Charlotte and editor of The Southern
Medical and Surgical Journal, in the opening
address of the Vocational Institute
conducted by the Y. M. C. A.

In the opening part of his speech, Dr.
Northington compared “the medical profes-
sion with other professions.

being

In connection
with Law, he made the telling statement that
“Death cannot*be stayed by argument.”

He then enumerated the two

classes of

physicians. First are those seeking only per- +

sonal honor and fame; second, those seeking
to help suffering humanity. Dr, Northington
clearly revealed how the latter was the real
purpose of the medical profession.

He then plunged into a brief survey of the
recent history of medical science and pointed
out how many of our forefathers had died
unnecessarily, for had their doctor known

as much about the medical science as we do |

today their useful lives would undoubtedly
have been lengthened. He stated that medi-
cal science jhas made more advances in the
last century than in all the previous ages.
and yet that the science is still in its infancy.
Much remains in the medical profession to
be discovered, and many problems await
solution. The need of the hour is for highly
specialized men.
“While doctors

may be compassionate

towards suffering humanity, they are not run- |

ning institutions of charity,” and he went on
to say that therefore a doctor should have a
(Continued on page 8)

Fresh to Banquet
in Charlotte Soon

The Freshman class has accepted an invi-
tation from Mr. Clarence Kuester, Vice-pres-
ident the Charlotte Chamber Com-
merce, to hold a banquet at their hall about
the middle of March. Various committces
haves been appointed to make arrangements
for the occasion.

ot ol

Allan Frew, president of
the class, was unanimously chosen to act as
toastmaster. “4

A meeting of the class was called Monday
morning by its president, to discuss plans for
the banquet. Frew stated that permission
had been obtained from the proper authorities
to have it.

Several Charlotte men, as well as represen-
jtatives of the Freshman class, will speak.
Special music will also be a feature of the

; evening. -

A committee composed of Dick Reynolds,
chairman; Woodson Morris, and Frank
Brown, was appointed to decide upon a con-
| venient date for the occasion, A transporta-
tion committee, composed of Brandon Smith,
chairman, and Tom Adams, was appointed.

mond and Murray Christian were appointed
as a program committee.

Formerly no class has been allowed to hold
a public gathering of any kind until their
Soph year. The three upper classes granted
the petition of Allan Frew, acting for the
Freshman class, because the class had receiv-

(Continued on page 2)

Third Annual Award Takes Place
This Year

FINAL AWARD LATER

Won by Harry Vance Last Year—
Many Pominent Candidates

For Trophy
Some time this week the Norris Athletic
Trophy preliminary eleetion will be held.

The Norris Athleti¢ Trophy for 1926-27 will
be to the
student who distinguishes, himself in athleties

awarded at Commencement, 1927,

during the present scholastic year.

The rules for the contest are few and sim
ple. To be eligible tor the Trophy the stu
dent must have attained a passing grade on
at least 70 per cent of his scholastic work
carried duing the year.
determined by a popular vote of the student

The winner, will be
body. The election will be run in two parts,
the three men receiving the highest number
of votes in the primary,eheld this week, will
be voted on later during the election of the
officers of the student body in which every
student may vote. f

The Trophy competition Was originated at
Davidson three years ago and to be awarded
the Norris Athletic Trophy is the highest
The
for the two preceding years were Flake Laird
for 1924-25, and HM. L. Vanee for 1925-26.
Both of men were three-letter
Laird was captain of the basketball team,
and a very prominent member of the basebal!
and football teams. Vanee. was one-of the
the football, and
wrestling teams, an all-state guard and equal

e e °
honor an athlete can receive, winners

these men,

mainstays of baseball,
ly as good on the other two teams.
The Norris Athletic Trophy 1 presented
(Continued on page 6)

Death Visits Relatives
of Prominent Students

Davidson Frierson Dies in Cuba —
Dr. Justice Accidentally Shot at
Hendersonville

Two student families were visited by death
I David Frierson, a brother of Jos
and Henry Frierson, and Dr. Z. K. Justice
father. of Frank Justice, passed away,
Word was received here Friday of the
death of David Frierson, a brother of Joc

last week.

Henry Frierson, who are students at
Davidson,
the seven brothers,
serving his country in the Marine Corps in
Cuba.

The detachment with which young rier-

and
Frierson, who was 18 years old,
and of

youngest Wis

son was registered was returning from a
period of service in Nicaragua, having been
sent there recently by the, United States to
assist in quelling the uprising in that country.

The left
night, immediately upon hearing of the death,
for their home in Heardmont, Ga., but .on
reaching Chester, S. C., they received a tele-
gram saying that the body would not reach
the United States until February 23rd. On
receiving this information they returned to
Davidson and will go to their home next
week for the funeral.

Dr. Zoro K, Justice, 55 years old, a promi-

Frierson brothers here Friday

{nent dentist of Davidson and a former resi-

|dent of Henderson

Jimmie Matthews, Charlie Orr, Ben DeAr- |

county, was killed last

Saturday afternoon.

While visiting at the home of his mother
at Dana, near Hendersonville, Dr. Justice
went squirrel hunting in the woods nearby.
When, climbing over a fence, his gun became

/entangled in the wire and was discharged.

The shot entered his right ear, blowing away
practically all the right side of his head and
face.

He is survived by his father, mother, wife,
three children, one brother and four sisters.
Frank Justice, a son, is a senior in Davidson
at the present time.

Davidson Athletes
Make New Records

Smashing four college records, last year’s
Wildeat cinder path stars set a phenomenal
mark on the Davidson oval. Three of the
four college records were broken in a single
meet with the University of North Carolina,
with Captain-eleet) Harry Goodykoontz and
Clement Penn taking off the honors,

Captain-elect Goodykoontz, one of David
track men, thrilled the
great crowd of spectators when he lowered
the college record for both the 100-and the
220-yard dashes. Clement Penn,

with characteristic case and endurance, clip

most brilliant

sons.

running

ped several seconds off the record for the
two-mile the
withstood the ravages of competition for a

run, Previous record having

number of years. In the spectacular state
meet, when a small group of only six Da
vidson stars triumphantly carried off the hon
ors of fourth place from a large field of col
‘lTeges, all of which entered between 20 and
40 contestants, Hamp Jennings soared up to
the «clouds both literally and figuratively by
pole vaulting a half inch higher than any

LIST OF CAGE B

other Davidson man has ever done before,

The great sprinting of Goodykoontz in
every meet was the sensation of a successtul
season, This flashing speedster never failed
to place in a race during the entire season,
To him goes the honor and merit of lowering
the 100°yard dash to 10 seéonds flat, and the
}two-twenty dash to 22 The old
records were 12 1-2 seconds for the century,
held by Gilchrist, 15, and 223-5 seconds for
the two-twenty, held by H. P. Murray, °21,
Clement Penn dowered the held
McBryde,. ‘24, of 10:33 1-5 in the two mile

run to 10 minutes and 25 2-5 seconds.

seconds,

record hy

practice Penn several times lowered his own

record, but this was regarded as unofficial }

as it was not in a regular meet. Hampton

(Continued on page 8)

; Davidson.

In}

ATTLES

Guilford and’ Lenoir-Rhyne Teams
Fall Before Fast Onslaught of
Wildcats—Rhyners Prave to

be Tough Foe

The Wildeats had hands full when
they met the fast Lenoir-Rhyne quintet last
Saturday night, but old) Wildeat spirit
did its part, and the local team came out on

The game

their
the

the long end of the 31 6 27 score.
was full of fouls, both teams fought hard,
and it was nip and tuck from the first to the
last whistle.

The first part of the first half was espe-
cially close, but the Wildeats drew themselves
together just before the whistle for the end
of the half, and were leading 16 to 9 when
this period was over.
fought third
periad and soon tied the Wildeats, the score
being 18 to TS at one time.

sy closely contested that the outcome remain

Lenoir Rhyne back in’ the

The game was

ed in doubt until just before the final whistle
fast the Wildeats to
come out on top.

Harrison's superb floor work was the out-

when a spurt enable

standing piece of work of the evening. Hodge,
Lenoir-Rhyne guard, was high séorer with 1
points, and Kiser and Wilson shared honors
Wilson's excellent guarding was
The visitors

with him,
also a high spot in the game.
seemed unable to work around him, and his
exceptional work in breaking up passes and

| Shots saved the local team a great many

points, The line-up was as follows:

Position. Lenoir-Rhyne

VATICORSOlnCo): cece Nhs ccoceee Hodge (11)
Rk. Calhoun €9) Ee) Rvs Kiser (9)
IVT ROtie le): ae Géitet ase . Hood (2)
larrison (3) ----0 RG —---- Ovércash (4)
Simpson (6) ~----- L(G = Syohbhidlerele TD)

Brown, Pi

(4),

1S°

Lenoir-Rhyne :

McAulay

Substitutes

sour. Davidson: Crawtord.

The Davidson Wildeat quintet had littl

(Continued on page 8)

Student Body Challenged by Bishop
Mikell to Renew Religious Allegiance

Sophs to Revel in
Charlotte Tuesday

As a date for its banquet, the Sophomore
class has selected. Tuesday, February 22nd.
being held at the Chamber
Commerce, as has been the custom of succes

Instead of of
sive classes for many years, this year’s cele
bration will take place on the roof of the new
Johnson building, in all the magnificence and
splendor of one of Charlotte’s newest and
most sophisticated roof gardens. This ban
quet is the main event of the Sophomore
year and is one of the best remembered oc
casions of cheer and good-fellowship of the
entire college life.

As the principal speaker of the evening the

Sophomores have been fortunate in securing
Dr. Rowan, General President of the Alumni
Associations. He will be ably seconded hy
Dr. McConnell and Professor
faculty. Other talks of lighter character
will be made by prominent the
campus the following of whom will be guests
‘at the banquet: Jim Pinkney, president ot
the student body; Ernest Bohannon, president
of the Athletic Association; Bill Christian, |
president of the “Y"; Lynn McClain, presi
‘dent of the Junior class; Jim Appleby, “Y”
secretary; Ernest Milton, alumni secretary ;
and Allan Frew, Freshman president. Dick
| Flynn is to be toastmaster and will wield the
whip over the Assembly and have general
charge of the merriment.

Jailey, of the

men of

| The banquet will begin at 7:00 o'clock and

| plans have been made to go in a body to one
| . . .
{of the prominent theatres after its conclusion.

| said.

“Religion is the giving of one’s self to a
noble leader. Who will hear the call and
who will follow it?” questioned  Bisltop

Mikell, of Atlanta, Ga., as he issued a chal-
lenge of personal religion to Davidson men
ates

Bishop Mikell is one of the outstanding
of the Church, having
charge of the work in the state of Georgia!
Dr, Arbuckle, who introduced him, told of
his work in religious fields and said that his

vespers last Sunday evening.

leaders Episcopal

message would be all the more valuable, as
he
serving as he docs as president of the Kappa

is in close connection with college men,

Alpha social fraternity.

“Had the apostles not followed Christ we
would never have heard of them, but would
have remained toiling in the purple sea, un-
honored and unsung.’ Saul was cited as an
example of one who did not want to be called
when the Lord sent word to him, but finally
asked what he should do and obeyed the call
ot Christ.

“God has a work which only each one of
us can do, coming to us when He puts the
thought of serving Him in our mind; when
He opens up ways of service and when He
opens up to us ways of salvation,” the Bishop
“Salvation is finding out what our way
is and making good. Salvation is service.
The best that has ever been offered to man
was when Christ said to come aiter Him.
Salvation is self-committal.”

“If one would follow Jesus Christ there
must be self-sacrifice. To follow Christ does
not mean to be a weakling but that the man
must know where to find strength. He must
labor for the triumph of the Cross over all

(Continued on page 6)
