THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

TEXAS, A GREAT STATE,
AS SEEN BY A NATIVE

This is offered as a lesson in geography

to all those that live in the states of

ignorance and intoxication, in order that en-
lightment and deep appreciation may come
to them that are not within its bounds.
Texas occupies all the North American
continent with exception of small portions
set apart for the United States, Mexico, and

Canada. It is the ‘largest state of its size in

the country and acts accordingly.
all the territory north of the Rio Grande,

the only dusty river in the world navigable |

for mud cats and pedestrians, and it pro-
duces enough hot tamales to feed the com-
bined populations of China, Brazil and Tas-
mania. It is bounded on the north by thirty
or forty states, on the east by all the oceans
in the world with the exception of the
Pacific, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, the
Milky Way, and the Constellatory universe,
and on the South by the Gulf of Mexico
and the Amazon river.

If Texas were cut away from the rest of
the United States and the Panhandle, it
would float out into the ocean because it rests
upon a huge subterranean sea of fresh water
and mineral oil. It is so big the people in
Laredo call these in Lubbock, Yankees, and
the citizens of El Paso sneer at those of
Texarkana as being: narrow-minded snobs
of the far east. When one travels from EF]
Paso to Charlotte, he is just half-way there
when he crosses the state’s eastern line.

The chief occupation of the peoples in this
land of sarid*fleas and cactus is bronco bust-
‘ing; their chief source of amusement is bull
fighting ; and their chief pursuit is Mexicans
and jumping beans, Export figures show
that their greatest contributions to nation’s
discomfort last year were enchiladas, taran-
tulas, and ipecac, 4

Texans are so proud of Texas they can't
sleep at night. To belong to the landed
aristocracy your front gate must be at least
thirty miles from your front door, One na-
tive’s gate is one hundred and fifty miles
from the house, and he is thinking of mov-
ing back because thé noise and dust from
passing automobiles are too annoying. Some
Texas ranchers have whole mountain wranges
on their property, and one boasts of “forty
miles of navigable river

Texas has enough land to supply every |

man, woman, and child in the world with a
plot nineteen by ninety feet, and have enough
left over for the armies of—the—world to
march around its border twelve abreast, and
not to come in sight of each other. If all
the Texas hogs were one big hog, he would
be able to dig up the Suez canal in three
roots. If all the steers were one big steer,
he would stand with his front feet in Brazil,
one hind foot in the Arctic ocean, the other
in Behring Straits, and brush the mist—aff
the Aurora Borealis with his tail. Tf all the
alfalfa in Texas were made into one big
bale, it would ‘reach to the Pearly Gates.
(And if all the bull in Texas were one big
pain, it would take a million years to. get
over it!)

To Girls
To select a first class husband: Just

shut/both eyes, grab hard and trust in
the Lord.

It owns |

‘Camper O’Neal and Rod
McRae Elected to Hold

Office for Senior Year
Prominent Members of Class Win

Over Many Candidates for
Minor Offices

|
' Elections held during the last six or seven
| days decided that Camper O'Neal should: be
| the Vice-President of
| Class, the Class of ’27.. Rod.» McRae was
lelected to the office of Secretary of this
| class.

the Senior |

| tions of college life and the work which shall

ring

The election was very close, Kugler, |
ry close fight |

| Wearn and several others a ve
| for the place. The other men nominated to |
the office to which Rod McRae was elected
were Walter Lingle and Dick Carr.  . |
Camp O'Neal is one of the most popular |
men ih and a hard |
also. He has already placed in several of |
the Track meets this year as a half miler. |
He is also on the Football Squad.
member of the Phi Delta
Fraternity,

Davidson is worker

He is a
Social

Gamma

| Rod McRae besides having been one of the
| assistants of the Football Team, this Past |
lye

| year was the Secretary and Treasurer of the

| Sophomore Class. Rod is a member of the
| Alpha Sigma Epsilon Social Fraternity. |
HANCOCK ANNOUNCES NEW |
ANNUAL STAFF |
(Continued from page 1) |

tributing editor of’ the Annual during the

| past year. W. L. Lingle has not been on
ithe staff of the Agnuab during the past
| year, having been occupied with Davidson
|ian work, but is the retiring Managing Editor
| of the Davidsonian and has done other work |
of a similar nature. A. 1. Dillard and J. |
M. Murchison have both don® work on the |
1927 Quips and Cranks
Kditors. R. C. Platt
perience as photographer

Contributing |
had) much
and well
| qualified for the supervision of that end of |
the Annual. G. A. Fry is entitled to the
position of Art Editor by virtue of his out
| standing talent along that line.
The rising Juniors who have been chosen
[as Contributing Editors have all done work |
on the Annual this year, and some of them
have been regular workers on other cam-
pus publications as well. ~P. J. Garrison has |
accepted for the@second time the position
of Chief Typist, a job which carries with
it a great deal of hard work.

None of the contracts for the 1928 Quips
and Cranks have been let, and it is planned |
at present not award them until after |
the 192% issue is out, probably about May
10th.

as
has CXx-

a 1s

to

: : eo
Engle—“My girl’s hat blew off her head
and was run over by the bus.”

Martin—‘What did she do about it?
Engle—‘She put it on and wore it. ~All}
the other girls wanted one like. it. They

thought it was the latest vagabond style.”

The old mitch cow is stép-mother to most

of the babies now-a-days.

|
| Feeling that sor
| acclimate the incoming freshmen to their

| surroundings and acquaint them with condi-

| be required of them, Davidson College of-

likelihood that the annual freshmen psycho

| logical tests will be given at this time, when
the minds of the new men are free from
| their studies and the activities that might

}of their ability can be obtained by an

jonly a hazy idea of the intricate problems

Orientation Week Will
_ be Instituted Next Fall
by College Authorities

Future Freshmen Will Profit by

| Institution of Plan

|
|
'

ATTENDANCE REQUIRED

Class of 1931 Required to Come to
| Fall Opening Several Days
Early

ne steps should be taken to

ficials next year will institute an ‘idea that
has been effectively tried at large colleges
and universities, to rectify the deficiences of
the present system.

Numbers of the class of 1931 will be re-
quired to come to the fall opening several
days prior to the usual time, to be present
at a series of Courses, which will be outlined
under the head of, “Orientation Week.” The
name is largely self-explanatory, .

Prominent leaders of the student body for
hext year will be here wherthe freshmen ar-
rive, and several of the popular faculty mem
bers will be at Davidson to conduct a series
of meetings, the attendance at them to be
obligatory, Every possible phase of college
life will be discussed hy the leaders, and
open forum discussions will be in vague, ‘giv-
ing the freshmen ample opportunity to ask
questions about innumerable problems.

While the number of students who are re
quired to withdraw from Davidson each year
on

account of

delinquincies in classroom
work is not alarming, it is felt) that. the
percentage is greater than it Should he.

Many believe that this is due to an improper
application to textbooks, and in order to al
leviate the possibility of failure courses will
be given in, “How to Study.”

While plans are only tentative, there is a

be in progress. It has been difficult in the
past several years to find an appropriate. time
to give these mental tests, because of the
numerous detractions that occurring

thrughout the entire year,

are
It has worked a
disadvantage upon the freshmen, and it is
thought that a more accuriite representation
ex
amination at this time.

Freshmen generally come to college with

that will confront them, having a distorted
idea as to the activities, There are some few
who believe that it is a simple matter to pass
their examinations, and that social life de
termines their — standing. “Orientation
Week", will obliterate any mis-
conceptions, and it is believed that the fresh
men will profit matterially by the institution
of this plan,

It is understood that the faculty will be
rather rigid in their requirement that — the
first-year men next fall come to Davidson
earlier, but. what measures will be taken to

however,

TEE TOTO

P/N PONPON NEON EG

DOANE

LAS

HOT

WOAN@L

NANO

ug

Ney

AeA!

DODD DO LODO ODS DOLLS

WHITMAN'S
WHITE .DRUG COMPANY |

PALA AIA

LET US SELL YOU YOUR

EAS
CANDIES’

SIR!! eyes of glowing coal. Hold up! He must
And this young apolo of the campus answer the question.
obeys. Grudingly he obeys. “A devil of a

“Well you see, Miss Peggy, Johnny de-
start,” thinks he.

“Some Junior Speaking
fire—oh yeh!”

Five-well manicured digits a
comb nervously through his vaselined black to meet you.
locks.
upon

scribed you to me before I came down here

More blushes on either side
Extreme agitation writes itself hig and two timid, comfortable sighs.

the mennen Stan Miss

the firm) and drum-shaped hat container from the

masqued — physiognomy. claims five satchels
Even the capillose protuberance of
set upper lip quivers indignantly,
Three long hours and ttying has he la-
laboured over his flawless toilet. He has
shaved those manly jowls with unwonted Companies—cautiously lest her Frerich heels
care. The gamut has been run

velva to a shot of anti-hally.

Peggy's

baggage compartment and heroically por-

ters them to their destination. The girl ac-

from aqua. trip and humble her.
The newly |
creased suit, treasured lovingly upn its spe
cial hanger for this festive season, is spot- |

; : ; I chinaberry tree. A golden moon bathes them
Not the slightest dandruff fleck mars by

Arm locking arm two devoted souls drift

airily toward the dim shadow of a huge
less.

the royal blue of a custom-built) collar, With her kindly shafts. A distant owl hoots

Harmony, complete harmony, characterizes) mournfully from his perch. At the call of

the gray-trousered — blue coated cnsemble, this bird of night the two arms lock closer,

This iridescent tie, crowning glory of a per- | the two hearts beat faster.

fect attire, was chosen only after most! Soothing beams from the great glowing

fastidious examination of the “hall's” supply. | globe above reveal in the mystic gloom of
Shall he accept the flapperish rebuff with | a distant arbor the faint outline of a partly

gentlemanly calmness and. state his errand busied stone seat,

a
é

With two upon it there
of gallantry; or shall he heed the promp- | remains room for that many more.

tings of his trampled pride and’ saunter in
differently way,

Stan and Pegey, the walkers, move slowly
Before the
“Then let this female nuisance accept: my) moon there floats now a diaphanous veil of
company to the house or reject it. Makes no! fleeey © clouds—white,
difference to me,

“PM explain”, he decides, as they gaze into the heavens.
cheering clouds—as
Mil have done my duty to! though that chaste sidereal body would draw
Johnny.” a garment about her all enamouring form.

“Tam sorry, madam,” he chirps, “but your Karth’s warm, pulsating odour vies with the
Johnny was unable to meet you and has ap-, celestial light) in’ enthralling all) who step
pointed me as a greeting committee ot one, adoors on such a night as this,
If you have no further objections 1 shall
you from the bus. the

camp in village more. filter through the gently swaying tree above
than an hour to the trip.” He couldn't resist | it. White is the marble surface—white, like
this gentle dig. Gracefully the two
sidle to a rest upon the inviting marble.
red cheeks of the fair damsel a deeper crim- | Closer they case, until all-unconsciously (?)
son. She is blushing!

Under the chinaberry tree there stands

assist Generally another bench, coruseating as moonbeams

driver doesn't this
some dreamland diadem,

Instantly there gleams through the rose

An awkward, but | Stan's brawny arm has gently encircled (for
now friendly, smile steals across the cherry | the first time) the lassie’s slim waist.

cupid’s bow, Does she slap him? Does that shapely
“Oh, | beg your pardon, sir” she im- | palm crack upon the starboard cheek of the
plores. “I was only acting cautiously as bold lover? Is there a haughty: “Unhand

mother has enjoined me, THERE IS NOT!!!

Five seconds later is three osculations ac-

But since. you are) me, sir!" ?
a friend of Johhny. | know you must. be

a trustworthy escort. How though were you complished, For “IT has won its latest

able to recognize me amidst this large group) victory.

of girls?” Pine Ellas.
And now Stan ( for it is he) blushes with | EEE ae :

a wistful charm, How can he politely ad-| A newly married couple agreed that

mit to this maiden his long and ardent ad-| when one of them started an argument

miration of her picture upon the roommite the other would leave the house until the

Johnn’s copiously adorned desk. lor all of | matter could be talked over sensibly. And

his buddy's sweeties he loves this photo the | they attribute the long life of the husband

best. Here she is—petite brunette with | to his outdoor life.
wn.

Prof.—‘Well, did

say about your staying out so late last

|
Authorities are looking at it from a two- |
fold standpoint, that of the individual, and
that of the college collectively, and because night?”
of the good that will accrue from it, they

2nd Prof,
are particularly determined to have every | talking about it-and Ul condense it

Ist what your wife

“Wait till she gets through
all

accomplish this have not been disclosed.| freshman avail himself of this opportunity. | and tell you.”
DODO DD DODO Le LDL LDL Lie LOTT TON LLC He Teen Te Tene WOOT 775

TER

:

Tver travtverivavirartvervavtverhver er

TAX axivext (avi

Tartan

ut

Ae

HOLLINGSW ORTH’S

