THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Major H. Maloney Will Inspect
Davidson Battalion in January

Maj. Harry J. Maloney, of the Fourth
Corps Area, will be here January 4th, in or-
der to inspect Davidson’s R. O. T. C. unit.
Major Maloney is in charge of the R. O. T.
C. division of this area and is making his
annual visit to Davidson. He will inspect
this unit; but that does not determine wheth-
er we will be inspected in. the spring for the
Distinguished Rating. The fact that this
unit got Distinguished Rating last year
makes it imperative that it be inspected this
year,

The Davidson unit has held the Distin- |
guished Rating for the past two years. Last |
year the unit made the highest percentage of |
any unit of this area, which includes the |
Southern States. The local officers are
proud of the showing in the past and want to
show Major Maloney that the unit will make |
as good this year.

The inspection will be held on the 4th of
January, which is the same day that school
begins after the holidays. It would be well
if the men keep this in mind and be prepared
to put on an excellent parade as well as oth-
er movements.

Another thing of interest to the Davidson
men is that Lieutenant Otto has received his |
promotion to captain. Captain Otto received
his promotion on the 22nd of November.
Captain Otto was a captain in the war and
has just regained his captaincy.

|

PLEA IS MADE
(Cuntinued from page 1) |
derful opportunity. So, in a direct way, the
Davidson College student body will “father”
some 20 odd boys and give them their right-
ful chance in life.

When the subscription blanks are handed |
out, the following words, symbolic of the
spirit of the undertaking, will be printed on
each:

“Believing in the eternal spirit of giving,
I want to give of myself unselfishly in order
that some mountain boys may have an oppor-
tunity to receive an education at Banner Elk
School for Boys, Banner Elk, N. C. With
this in view, I pledge the following amount
to be used in His service for His great
work,”

Once long ago a Man walked the shores
of Galilee, trod the dusty roads of Palestine,
giving-Himself then that we now might be
able to give. This lonely figure walked
straight into the hearts of men to remain
there forever, but in so doing He meant not |
that men should be content to let His Spirit
rest in their hearts alone. He wished that
they, in turn, might pass it on, keeping be- |
fore them always His eternal gift, for in|
this way men would not forget to lend a help- |
ing hand to a struggling brother. |

Davidson has a chance now to show her
colors. May she not take advantage of it?

COLLEGE JEWELRY |

Watches and Clocks |

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Seal Stationery |

Pennants and Pillows |

Wildcat Belts |

Athletic Supplies |

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler ||
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING |

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Deputation of ““Y”
Men at Conference

Davidson, on Friday, December 2nd, sent
a deputation of eight men to assist in lead-
ing and directing the ninth annual Older
Boys’ Conference, held in Hickory, Decem-
ber 2-3-4. This group was sent by the “Y”
and consisted of Monroe Gilmour, Bill
Weaver, Bill Covington, John Melton, Rus-
sell Neunan, Murray Christian, Raymond
Lake, and Sam Wiley. The deputation had
charge of the discussion groups of “the con-
ference, and assisted in other ways.

John Melton and Raymond Lake had
charge of the Sunday morning services at
the First Presbyterian’ Church of Hickory,
the former speaking and the latter praying.

The Older Boys’ Conference is an annual
gathering of representatives from Hi-Y
clubs, Sunday School societies, and other or-
ganizations from all over the state. They
come together, sponsored by the Y. M. C.
A., to discuss boys’ problenis and conditions.

TEN ADDITIONAL BEBATERS

(Continued from page 1)
vorce Laws Should Be Enacted Through
National Legislation.” As the speaker could
choose the ‘side he wished to represent, the
popular side of the question was the affirm-
ative, 16 men upholding that side and seven
men advancing the negative. The men who
tried out are as follows: Affirmative: E. E.
Marsh, J. B. Knox, C. M. Pratt, W. M.
Powell, F. D. Miller, Dan Currie, J. W.
Williams, H. FE, Russell, W. L. Dumas, W.
B. McGuire, F. D. Daniels, J. P. McBryde,
J. M. Murchison, M. T. Gilmour, Reid-Gra-
ham, and Frank Hall. Negative: A. T.
Edelman, H. A. Knox, Camper O'Neal, Mur-

Town News

Professor Lilly, Professor Cumming, and ;
Dr. Lingle attended the annual meeting of |
the North Carolina Literary and Historic |
Association, which was held in Raleigh.
|

Dr. Martin and Dr. J. M. McConnell!
were present at the annual meeting of the
Association of Schools and Colleges of the
Southern States, which convened in Jack-
sonville, Fla.

Mr. F. L. Jackson made a short trip to
the University of Virginia, to attend a meet-
ing of the treasurers and business managers
of the colleges and universities of the eastern
part of thé United States.

Last Friday night the Sorosis Club held
a meeting, with Miss Schofield and Mrs. W.
A. Sutton as hostesses, at the home of the
latter.

The “As You Like It” Club met last Fri-
day night with Mrs. Graham, at the S. A. E.
House.

Mrs. W. J. Martin spent the Thank§giv-
ing holidays at Fayetteville, N. C.

We stated in-the first. paragraph of this
column that tHe foohall season is over and
that this column will naturally be devoted to
other sports from now on. However, we
cannot close the football without
making some comment on the outcome of
two of the post-season games. The victory
of Georgia Tech over Georgia was one of
the biggest upsets of the year. The writer
was not able to see the game, but from the
reports of those who did see it, it was great
and worthy of the large crowd which attend-
ed it. Davidson, we see, is not the only
team which causes upsets. We don’t know
what the excuse of the Georgia backers was,
but we'd be willing to bet that the Bulldogs

season

ray Christian, C. R. Pritchett, R. E.- Kell,
Riggs McConnell.

were pretty confident of their ability to come

out victorious when the opening whistle

Scabbard and Blade Fraternity
Sponsors Rifle. Firing Contest

CAMPAIGN TO AID

(Continued from page 1)
the Grandfather’s Orphanage was founded.
This institution contains 80 children gathered
from the mountain recesses. Many new
children are adopted each year as the older
children are placed in Christian homes for
rearing and education.

During the past year, after the Plum Tree
School for boys was burned, the board of
trustees requested of the Lees-McRae Insti-
tute to take over the boys’ school. They
have done so and now have a fine high school
house in a temporary building. The tuition,
room and board charges amount to $150 a
year. Many mountain boys who are penni-
less attend the institution, working in and
about the school in raising supplies and in
other jobs, and thereby. making $100 of their
expenses. The remaining $50 has to come
from scholarships. It is the purpose of the
“Y” of Davidson College to. provide for 20
of these scholarships of $50 each.

The Cabinet is sure that such an invest-
ment will yield more than would any other
mission, All the.boys served by the Plum
Tree School are of the pure Anglo-Saxon
descent who have plenty of native ability,
but who-lack incentive to use their talent.
So the Y. M. C. A. hopes to place 20 of
these boys where they will receive the proper
training and encouragement.

The work at Banner Elk is carried on un-
der the leadership of Edgar Tufts, Jr., class
of '21, who was chosen as his father’s suc-
cessor after the latter’s death a few years
ago. Although young at the time, he has
borne the responsibility with the same in-
terest and success as did his father. He is
assisted in his work by a loyal group of 20
co-workers and teachers.

The keynote of the institution since its
very foundation has been progress without
debt... It presents an opportunity of rare
possibilities to the Y. M. C. A. to help carry
on a work nobly begun.

The rifle shooting contest sponsored by
the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity
for the week ending December 10th“has one
more firing. The trophy, that will go to the
high man, is a gold medal on which are cross-
ed rifles, bull’s eye, and ribbon, which will
be worn on the winner’s uniform. |The
match will last through this week and the
trophy will be awarded Wednesday, Decem-
ber 14th.

The entrants in the contest are: M. T.
Gilmour, S. Y. Brown, C. M. Pratt, W. L.
Hart, E. G.. Epes, E. D. Lennon, C. H.
Dubose, W. B. Yancey, W. G. McGavock,
J. N. Henderlite, T. T. Penn, J. M. Gudger,
C. W. Taylor, R. D. Russell, P. J. Garrison.

The Davidson-Statesville match from Oc-
tober 2th to December 6th is being held at
about the same time. Last Tuesday night J.
S. Gudger made the highest score of the
night, making 184 points out of a possible
200. This score was only ‘beaten by “Doc”
Prieze, of Gastonia, who shot 188 out of a
possible 200.

The following is a tentative schedule of
rifle matches for the year 1927-1928:

Statesvjlle match (now being fired) —
October 8-December 6, ;

Scabbard and Blade Trophy Match—De-
;cémber 5-10.
| West Virginia University—January 7,

A. & .M. College of Oklahoma—February
4. ’

Emory University—February 4.

Davidson Open March—February 6-11.

Culver Military Academy—February 11.

A. & M. College of Texas—February 15.

Kemper Military School—February 18.

‘Oregon Agricultural College—February
25.

University of Vermont—March 10,

North Dakota State College—March 17.

V. M. I. Match (fired there).

Oak Ridge Match (fired there).

Fourth Corps Area Match.

Mr. and Mrs. : : : ‘ : ; : : By BRIGGS
Come on, Soe. NOT ver! WELL. | GUESS DON'T BE aN VvE A LOT To ) WHY Joe!
DINNER' S *REABDYS wu we Just I'D BETTER ‘SEE SILLY. No BE THANKFUL FoR/YoURE THE
as ec CHAD BREAKFAST] ue DocToOR ee ee TA S| aan Sur
———s Z TomoRROW A DINNGE, ho) ie EOS WUISH You'p
BY ea) LIKE You DID GET RID OF

THat COUGH

HErRe's THE
WISHBONE , JOE.
MAKE A WISH

1 wisH ID
GeT A UTTLAR | WON--
SYMPATHY MOAT ee

\ '

WELL , Ydu

(AV) WISH

es

SMOKE OLD GOLDS
AMD GET RID OF
THAT COUGH AND
GROUCH

MIISH YoU'D

OF YOURS

The Smoother and Better Cigarette
. not .a cough in a carload

o07ee

SToP ASKING
FOOLISH QUESTIGNS.
LL GIVE YoU A DIME
JF You'LlL RUN Downs
To Tac D®UG STORE
AND GET ME A
CARTON OF OLD GOLDS

