THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Davidson 12, Florida 0! Last week when
we began this column with Davidson 5, Cita-
del 0, we felt like great things had been
done, but now the doings of last week seem
like a “mere trifle.’ There’s only one thing
that could be greater, and that would be to
“down every foe then” in the fashion that
the strong ’Gator eleven was forced to bite
the dust last week.

That game must have’been a wonder. The
fighting Wildcats were outweighed and had
the odds against them, overwhelming odds,
The old Wildcat spirit just couldn’t be down-
ed, though, and the Florida ’Gators suffered
one of the greatest surprises they've ever
suffered. In our opinion there’s just one
thing that goes down to the root of the mat-
ter and explains “how the Wildcats did it,”
and that one thing is the fact that the Wild-
cat coaches; the ones who have trained this
teamsand made it what it is, are “Monk” and

“Tex.”

From the reports of those who saw the
game, there were 11 stars on the field during
the entire afternoon. There were no indi-
vidual stars. The whole team was deter-
mined to win that game, and by working
together as a team they realized their ambi-
tion. With this fact in view, and realizing
that for lack of space we cannot take up
every member of the team individually, we
mention a few of the stars as representatives
of the whole team.

It looked like they just couldn’t stop
Charlie Harrison. He broke loose for long
gains several times during the game, and,
although he did not make either of the touch-
downs, it was largely through his work that
the ball was brought to within striking dis-
tance of the goal. When once he got started,
they just couldn’t stop him till he had clipped
off a few yards at least. Two of the most
exciting times during the game for those
hearing the returns at the gym were when
the reports came in that “Charlie Harrison
is on his way down the field,” and then a few
minutes later when the distance he had gained
was ‘announced.

Nisbet, as usual, made consistent gains
through the line. We've often heard the
question of how Nisbet plows through the
line he does when he appears to be so light
for a fullback, brought up. Well, we don’t
know how he does it. All we, know is that)
he does do it and does it consistently. Prob-
ably as good an explanation as any would be
that he’s a fighting Wildcat and has that old
Wildcat Spirit, and that “Monk” Younger
showed him how.

Flinn’s spectacular work was one of the fea-

res of the game. He didn’t play the whole
ao but while he was in there he surely
showed what he’s got. Almost as soon as he
got in he broke loose and put the ball over
the line. As has been said, every man on the
team did his part toward making those two
touchdowns, but Flinn carried it across,

The other touchdown was made by none
other than Captain Grey. We've heard sev-
eral persons lamenting the fact that Dick
was not able to make his kicks good, but why
worry about that? He made a touchdown.
In our opinion, if the team can keep up the
good work and show up during the rest of
the games this season like they. did ast
week, we've got a mighty good chance to put
a man on’the all-Southern team, and an even
better chance to win the state championship
again.

There may be some few who will want to
detract from the glory of the Wildcats by
saying that the Florida team was not in
shape and that Davidson got all the breaks,
As has been said, we didn’t see the game, but
from the reports of those who did see it, it
was not aquestion of breaks, nor of luck of

any kind: The Wildcats simply fought like
* Wildcat teams fight and’ the best team won.

The Florida spirit seems to have been as
great and fine in defeat as was the Wildcat
~ spirit in victory. The Florida Freshmen
carried the victorious team off the field and
_ the Florida spirit in. general seems to have
been mighty fine—Such spirit-is to be com-

i _ The Wildcats enjoy playing teams

Fourteen Runners Begin
Cross Country Program

Martin and Ely Unable to
Come Out

A call was issued last Thursday to can-
didates: for the cross-country team which is
beginning its fifth season at Davidson. Until
last year no recognition was given to those
on this team, and this fact made it popular
only with those who planned to go out for

one of the distances in spring track and used |
this only as h means of getting in condition.
The Athletic Board saw that if this sport |
was to develop, if Davidson hoped to- com- |
pete on more equal terms with other colleges,
something must be done to stimulate the in-
terest of the student body. To this end they, |
last year, offered minor letters and at the
end of the season awarded them to Penn,
captain, Treveton, Webb, Martin and Fly.

This idea bore fruit Thursday, when in
answer to the call of “Dutch’ Wearn, track
manager, 17 “Wildcats” of assorted sizes and
shapés appeared, clad in sweat-shirts and
duck trousers, ready for the work before
them, that of conditioning themselves for a
run of three and a half miles over a course
which in some cases would constitute a test
for one of “Henry’s single-footers.”’ For
the greater part these men are all new ma-
terial, although Sloop, Brownell and Me-
Geeheg-had some practice and competed in
several meets of last season. Martin, who
was third ranking member of: the team last
year, was out for the first few practices, but
was unable to continue, while John Ely, who
is also a letter man in this sport, will be un-
able to come out because of an operation.

The squad, however, is strengthened by
several distance men from last year’s Fresh-
man team who are showing up well, and they
are expected to be in first-class condition by
the time of the first meet. These men are
Newnan, Treveton, and Lafferty, who were
awarded numerals in the mile, and Goodwin,
in the 880. Besides these there are several
others who have a good chance to take the
places of Penn, Treveton and Webb, who
graduated, and of Martin and Ely, who will
not be able to run this year. The. following
is a complete list of those out: Sloop,
Brownell, Jarratt, Newnan, Treveton, Laf-
ferty, Beavers, Helms, Russel, E. B., Russel,
H. F., McGeehee, Wilkinson, McCall and
Goodwin,

The schedule as it now stands will consist
of three meets. The first will be held here
with Wofford, October 15th, and will prob-
ably be run during the halves of the David-
son-Elon football game. Another meet has
been scheduled with Duke for the morning
of Home-Coming Day, while the third will
be with State at Greensboro,

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS LOG

(Continued from page 1)

this anniversary. At this celebration a monu-
ment was unveiled commemorating the 200th
anniversary. All the schools directly or in-
directly descended from Log College had
their names engraved upon this monument.
The name of Davidson College was among
these.

STATISTICS ON FLORIDA
GAME

Gained through line: Florida, 78
yards; Davidson, 115 yards.

Gained end runs: Florida, 38 yards;
Davidson, 116 yards,

Gained passes: Florida, 82 yards;
Davidson, 15 yards.

Gained returned punts: Florida, 25
yards; Davidson, 70 yards. -

Gained on intercepted passes: Flor-
ida, 0 yards; Davidson, 30 yards. -

- Last from scrimmage: Florida, 9
yards; Davidson, 32 yards,

Net gain in all departments (punts
excluded): Florida, 214 yards; Da-
vidson, 314 yards. - ‘

Punts: Florida, 300 yards; Aver-
age, 43 yards. Davidson, 352 yards;
Average, 44 yards.

Penalties: Florida, 20 yards; Da
_vidson, 5 yards;* m7

‘tnd for 4 yards.

eport of Davidson-Florida Game Heard
Saturday By Many Students and Visitors

Excitement Reigns as Favorable
Reports Come in

HARRISON STARS

Reports of Game Wired Back From
Side-Lines By Ernest Milton .

Startling the entire sporting population of
the South, the speedy Davidson team emerged
victorious by a goodly margin of two touch-
downs after her invasion of the University
of Florida’s stronghold. This win which
took place on Fleming Field, Gainesville,
Florida, October 1st, will make the prowess
of Davidson’s scrappy team better known all
over the South.

The following is the detailed, play-by-play
report of the game: :

First Quarter

Stanley, of Florida, kicked off at 3:05
o'clock, to Grey, on Davidson’s 10-yard line,
who returned it 18 yards. Grey punted 10
yards out of bounds. Florida’s ball on, Da-
vidson’s 40-yard line. Bowyer hit tackle for
4 yards. Cawthorn made 3 yards at center,
Bowyer circled right end for 5 yards.’ First
down, Florida’s ball on Davidson’s 20-yard
line. Goodbread got 2 yards at left guard,
Cawthorn failed to gain through the line.
Goodbread was thrown for a 3-yard loss by
Arrowood. Pass to Goodbread netted 5
yards, but the ball went over to Davidson on
downs. Grey lost 1 yard at right end. Grey
kicked to Florida’s 20-yard line, where the
ball fell dead. Goodbread got 2 yards around
right end, but the ball was called back as
both teams were offside. -Cawthorn failed to
gain through center, and then made another
unsuccessful effort. Bishop punted.35 yards
to Grey, who returned 7 yards. Davidson's
ball on their own 48-yard line. Nesbit got 1
yard through center. Harrisén circled right
Ghey punted 42 yards out
of bounds. Florida’s ball on their own 18-
yard line. Bowyer went around right end
for 8 yards. Cawthorn made 2 yards and
first down through the line. Goodbread went
around right end for 4 yards. Bowyer got
2 yards at left guard. Goodbread made 1
yard through the line. Bishop punted 55
yards to Davidson’s 20-yard line, where De-
hoff downed the ball. Davidson’s ballon
their own 20-yard line. Harrison got 1 yard
at left end. Grey punted 60 yards to Bowyer,
who returned 20 yards to Davidson’s 49-yard
line. Goodbread made no gain at right
tackle. Bowyer passed to Bishop, but Bishop
caught it out of bounds, and the referee ruled
it an incomplete pass. Bowyer tossed a 5-
yard pass to Stanley, who traveled 10 yards
before being stopped. Bowyer.made 3 yards
and went out of bounds. Bowyer hurled a
25-yard pass to Dehoff, who was downed on
Davidson’s 3-yard line. Florida’s ball, first
down and goal to go. Cawthorn fumbled and
lost 5 yards, as the quarter ended. Score:
Florida, 0; Davidson, 0. /

Second Quarter

Florida’s ball on Davidson’s 8-yard line,
second down. Cawthorn made 3 yards over
fight tackle.. Bowyer hit the line for 3
yards, Ball on the 2-yard line, fourth down.
Bowyer passed over the goal line to Good-
bread, but it was incomplete. Ball goes over
to Davidson on their own 20-yard line. Nes-
bit fumbled and lost 5 yards. Grey punted
25 yards to Bowyer, who returned. 5. Flor-
ida’s ball on Davidson's 46-yard line. Good-
San (Continued on: page 3) NY

at

BIG FIVE SCORERS

Player. College. Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T'l.
y 1—Janoski, Duke . 5 30
2—Adams, State .. 2 12
3—Warren, State . 2 12
4—Grey, R., Dav.. 1
5—Outen, State .. 1
6—Flynn, Dav. --. 1
7—Goodwin, State.1
8—Cox, W. F.--.. 1
9—Fenell, Car. -.. 1
10—James, W. F... 0
11—M’Connell, Dav.*0
12—Schuler, Car. - 0
13—Buie, Duke ..-..0
14—Kelly, Duke ___"0
. *Safety.

mK OSOSO200004#0000
eccoooHococooccooKrCcScs
Hm NNAWAARDAVNO

Wildcats Meet Terriers
in Third Game Saturday

To Play South Carolina Team in
Spartanburg

On October 5th the Wildcats make an-
other trip into foreign territory, going to
Spartanburg to play the Wofford Terriers.
This will be Woffod’s first game on their
home field this season, and also Home-Com-
ing Day for the South Carolina school. The
combination of these two events is expected

to bring forth a big crowd for the game.
Last year the Wildcats won from the Ter-
riers by the score of 26 to0, Joe McConnell
featured in this game by~intercepting a for-
ward pass and running 60 yards for a touch-
down, the only touchdown that he had scored
in his college career. Wofford has always
given Davidson a fight when they have play-
ed, and the Davidson coaches are not expect-
ing an easy victory. Thus far in the season
the Terriers have made a fair showing, tieing
Erskine College, 6 to 6, whd;in turn held the
University of South Carolina to one touch-
down. Against V. M. I., Wofford was not
so successful, losing the game by the score
of 35 to 0,

In contrast with the showing of the Wof-
ford team, Davidson’s showing has been fine,
starting off the season with a 5 to 0 vigtory
over The Citadel, when the reliable toe of
Dick Grey kicked a field goal and “Tut” Mc-
Connell fell on a blocked kick to score two
points, . Following this victory the Wildcats
journeyed down to the University of Florida
to defeat the ’Gators by a score of 12 to 0,
upsetting all dope, and surprising all the fol-
lowers of the two teams and of football in
general, :

ade

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Duke ..22.22.- 25 Boston College 9
Tennessee ----- 26 UENG Ci ecesas 0
Wake Forest _. 0 Elon ~--------- 0
Vea Ts codeks 0 Ga. Tech. ~---- 7
Mercer ~--2.-- 6 The.Citadel --. 0
Wofford ---.-- 6 Erskine —------ 6
Furman ------ 20° ‘State siscuc.. 0

Freshmen to Meet
Oak Ridge Saturday

The Davidson Wildkittens will open their
football season with the strong Oak Ridge

team Saturday. The game will be played on
foreign territory for the Davidson boys, and
against a team who has been in action once .
before this season. '

Téams from Oak Ridge always put up a
formidable defense and it is seldom that
their offense falls below that of their op-
ponents. In their game last Saturday with
the Duke University Freshmen, they put’ up
an offense that downed the little’ Blue Devils
to the tune of 12 to 7. The Oak Ridge boys,
led by Captain Goodson and his teammates,
Beaver, Frazier and Howard, got around and
through the Duke line for consistent gains.

The Davidson Frosh, although not ex-
perienced as a team, have been running after
the legs of the Varsity since the first week
of school. The Wildkittens have a com-
paratively strong team but little reserve ma-
terial.

The probable Davidson line-up is as fol-
lows:

nds wees soc obsess Proctor and Gilliam
Tackles -------. Covington and Kuykendall
GUardsiesconeeusesrescenes Brock and Fosl
Quarterback --- McCall
Halfbacks ~------- Goodykoontz and David
Htilibackrest sees eks Fraley

STUDENTS’ PHOTOS

(Continued from page one)
the work and confusion that accompanies
such work. Last year about 15 pictures were
taken to the hour, but this year there will be
only seven to the hour, in order to get better
pictures.

iy
ry

The Students Store

Where the gang gathers to en-
joy their restful moments after

periods of study. :

Come down and join the bunch.
You'll appreciate their fellow-

ship more. And we have

Plenty of Eats, Drinks
__. and Smokes
to make the occasion enjoyable.

Meet the gang at
The Students Store

It’s yours, why not patronize it ?.

t

a)

4

Le a

SA ees ts 3

