8

THE

DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

SEVENTY-FOUR FORMER
STUDENTS

(Continued from page 7)
The classes represented, and the names

and addresses of all who attended the}

meetings are as follows:
1883 — John Bratton, Atlanta; J.
Douglas, Gainesville, Fla.
1888—W. H. Baker, Jacksonville.
1891—William H. Baker, Jacksonville.

B.

1896—John D. Baker, Sr., and John W. |

Dodge, both of Jacksonville.
1899—Rev. J. E. Ward and Dr. G. T.
Clark, both of Bainbridge, Ga.

1900—H. M. Askew, Atlanta.

1901I—Will Watt .and Hansell Watt, both
of Thomasville, Ga.; J. R. Johnson, Mon-
ticello, Fla.;°C. H. Murray, Griffin, Ga.

1903—Dr. W. M. Dunn and Prof. H. H.
Caldwell, both of Atlanta.

1905—Dr. J. Sam Guy, Atlanta.

1906—M. B. Ives, Orlando; Dr. J. Frank
Cranford, St. Petersburg, Dr. C. H. Watt,
Thomasville, Ga. ‘ :

1907—Rev. J. E. Purcell and Rev. E. L.
Flanagan, both of Atlanta; E, M. Cran-
ford; St. Petersburg.

1908—Rev. R. M. Stimson, Columbus,
Ga.; Prof. S. G. Stukes, Decatur, Ga.;
R. M._Wetherell, Orlando.

1910—Dr. J. B. White and W. F. Mil’
burn, both of Atlanta; Dr. J. H. McDuf-
fie, Jr., Columbus, Ga.; C. C. Alexander,
Orlando.

1911—Rev. H. M. Shields, Atlanta.

1912—Dr, E. L. Bishop, and J. L. R.
Boyd, both of Atlanta.

1913—Rev. S. B. Hoyt, Barber, Va.; Z.
J. Crawford and D, A. McQueen, both of
Jacksonville; C. L. Ferron, Eustis, Fla.

191s—Dr. W. M. Shaw, Jacksonville;
Rev. J. B. Belk, D.D., Orlando. ;

1916—G, B. Hoyt, and J. A. Gloer, both

of Atlanta; R. S. Witherington, Eustis,
Fla.

1917—D. W. Lane,,Folkston, Ga.; J. E.
Willis, Bainbridge, Ga.

1918—W. L. Douglas, Dunedin, Fla.

1919—S. M. Gilbert, Jacksonville, Fla.;
J. J. Love, Quincy, Fla.

1920—A. L. Wilson, Quincy, Fla.

1921—G. D. Green, II, and S. A. Bur-
gess, both of Jacksonville:

1922--J. M, Richards, Decatur, Ga.; K. |
R. Warnock, Jacksonville; R. K. Shaw, |
Jr., and J. S. Curry, both of Quincy, Fla. |

1923—L. C. Burney, Decatur, Ga.

1924—Sidney Ives, III, Orlando.

1925—H. M. Moss, Atlanta; K. S. Mc-
Alpin and John D, Baker, Jr., both of
Jacksonville. _

1926—L. L. Deck, College Park, Ga.;
O. L. Brenner, Atlanta; C. F. Monk and
Claude McIntosh, both of Decatur, Ga.;
T. S. Baker, Jacksonville; W. H. Lynch,
Jr., Orlando; J. C. Pressley, St. Peters-
burg.

1927—L. C. Deck, Atlanta, S. L. Belk,
Orlando; J. B. Webb, Clearwater, Fla.; C.
R. Anderson and P. F, Jones, both of St.
Petersburg; S. W. Doss, Jr.,-and Zack
Varnedoe, both of Thomasville, Ga.; M.
E. O'Neal, Bainbridge, Ga.

1930—J. K. Jones, St. Petersburg, Fla.

And Joe Ruff, of St. Petersburg, Fla.,
who enters Davidson as a freshman next
year.

ALUMNI IN FLORIDA

(Continued from page 7)
of encouragement to the team, assuring
them that they were behind them and
would be at Gainesville to’ watch their
performance,
Atlanta will make a valiant effort to|
obtain a football game between Georgia |

§

MOGADORES

are smart this season. We have

them in their m

hues to harmonize with any and all

of your apparel.

$1.00 and Up

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

Mary. Astor-in- Rose

A George Fitzmaurice production

WEDNESDAY
Sally O’Neill in “Becky”

THURSDAY

Matinee and Night
Wm. Haines in Spring Time

FRIDAY

Richard Dix in

SATURDAY

.Tom Mix in Tumbling River
Finis :

and MOIRES

any shades and

of the Golden West

Shanghai Bound

“y” Column |

The speaker at Y this week will be the |
Hon. O. Max Gardner, of Shelby, N. C.'
Mr. Gardner is one of the most promi- |
nent lawyers in the state, and is par-
| ticularly mentioned in all political circles |
as a probable candidate for the next Gov- |

DAVIDSON TROUNCES

(Continned trom nage. ia] y
stimulant to the Wildcats, and immediately

they began to look much better as Grey fol-
lowed with a pretty first down, but they
stopped here for a short time. But they had

tasted blood and after an exchange of punts |

they resumed their task. After a bad kick
by Florida the ball was on their 12-yard line,

where Harrison failed to gain and Flinn,
substituting for Nisbet, went through the

ernor of North Carolina. He is also one
of the leaders of the Baptist Church in|

this section, and is well known in all parts | Gators for the ramaining distance and touch- |

of the South. A forceful speaker, a deep | down. Grey failed to make the extra point.
thinker, this man will bring to Davidson} In another rush it looked like a certain
men a message that will be excelled by | touchdown at Davidson steadily marched 49
none. At any cost, hear this speaker. yards to Florida’s eight-yard line and here
Remember the time and place: | Dick Grey did a very unusual thing of miss-
Shearer, at 6:15. ling goal., After these gains“the Davidson
——¥—— | team was master of the field and the ’Gators
The Y cards will be out this week, and were forced on the defensive and had to be
anyone who fails to get one, is asked to| satisfied with the gains of the determined
notify Jim Appleby as soon as possible, | Wildcats.
so a card can be issued for him. | At the kick-off in the second half David-
—_Y—., | son received and returned the ball to their
It was planned to have Dr. Vander | own 31-yard line. Harrison got loose for a
Meulen’s services start on Sunday, Octo- | 25-yard gain and assisted by a penalty, the
ber 16th, but the Y ‘has recently been | ball was 29 yards from the ’Gator goal,
notified that he has been ill, and it is not _where Grey's dropkick was wide.
known whether he will be able to take| Shortly after this time Ed Wilson inter-
charge of the services at that time. The cepted a pass and after a serigs of gains,
Fall Life Work Campagn will not be | mostly by Flinn, the ball was carried over the
abandoned, however, but will merely be/line by Grey, who failed to make the extra
More defi- ‘point. Davidson continued to hold the ad-

postponed until a later date.
| vantage through the remainder of the game

nite news soon,
pectin, Amr
The song-leading class sponsored by| making a total of five chances the Wildcats
the Y has started off with a good enroll-| had ed sc After the initial spure of the
ment, and any others interested may at | Sunshine men they were not dangerously
ment, and any others interested may | Close to the goal of the Wildcats, though
still join, The Y quartet is also in prog-| they made. continued substitutions in an at-
ress and quite a number are out for: it.| tempt to change the tide of the battle.
These new activities of the Y are being| The entire Davidson team played heads-up
watched with a great deal of interest, | football, Harrison, Flinn and Nisbet doing
and confidence is felt that they will play most of the backfield work. Middlekauf,

Kirchner, and Stanley were probably in the

a large part in the work of the Y.
a Vie limelight over the rest of their teammates.
Charlie Paddock will be here soon to| Line-up and summary follows :
speak on some phase of sportsmanship, | Rlorida: Position Davidon |
and the student body should avail them- Stanley Seeley Ej phe ee ee Arrowood
selves of the opportunity to hear this! pjegs | Caria McConnell
world-famed athlete. Reeves uct ee eQge ed McColgan
rc). Geena | Kirchner ~.------ Center: -2-.2222 Hampton
The Y rooms have been equipped more | Allen esse gerne es RG goss sess Laws
completely for the benefit of the students | D. Dehoff ~------- Riise ss seske Melton
by the addition of a number of papers| W. Dehoff -------- RA tecaceskeess Wearn
and magazines. These added facilities | Bowyer ---------- OBeessseesuess Wilson
for recreation help greatly in makng life | Goodbread ~------- 1} 3 Lapeapapeieercy Harrison
on the campus more pleasant. Bishop) 2o242—s-425 Reese ees coe Grey
Among the new books at the Y rooms | Cawthorn ~-------- BBiee secs Nisbet
is found a volume entitled “An Outline of
Careers—A Practical Guide to Achieve- Score by quarters:
mefit.” This is a composite volume, con- Florida Ce ee UE eee)
taining a series of articles, written hy | Pavisson AC ees DOF UO se
38 prominent Americans, all of whom are Substituitions—Florida: Owens, Bryan,
leaders in their particular field of work, Crabereey: Clemons, Costeshouge,. Wy alzet,

advising and informing young men as to| Smith, Goldstein, Middlekauf, Baldwin, Van-
Davidson :

the requirements, advantages, Hactlaninasleose ult Bono, che 7
, | Baker, Hunt, Flinn, Kell, Harmon, Smith,
etc., of the line of endeavor that they |
‘ ; ; ” | Matthews, McEachern, DeArmon, Hewlette.
are engaged in. Every imaginable type | Hill, (Ga. Tech.) teat B hanns
of .work is discussed, and the whole facts | (Wooster) h 5 Wien eet : ite ant
and truths of the situation are clearly | ¥ AVN 0) ae cata

outlined. This book can be of invaluable | Bats)” Hc ulee:

. . . |
service to anyone who is as yet undecided |

as to his life-work. Drop by and look it | ;
over. It’s on the Y table at all times. | Dione pbs Tnelot Wearn) 13 Was Mats

| ried to Miss Susan Channing at the First
| Parish Church of Cohasset, Mass., on
| Tuesday, August 30th. They are now

| acid} yee, x
In the last issue of the Davidsonian an | fhe at 60 West Cedar St, Boston,
Mass,

error in the price was made in the adver- |
tisement of Mayhew’s, Master Cleaners |

NOTICE

; and another attempted dropkick went wild, |

_MANY INSTITUTIONS

|

(Continued from page 1!)

‘sion. In short, “College English Composi-
tion” will fill a need that has long been felt
by teachers of English all over the country.

Sbewmake and Carmer’s “College English
Composition” is being used as a text in Da-
'vidson this year and also in Furman Uni-
‘versity. It has also been adopted by other
schools throughout the country.

Dr. Vowles has the distinction of being
the author of the first American annotated
‘edition of a modern Norwegian text by a
non-Scandanavian. The title of the text is
“Bjornstjierne Bjornson’s En Glad Gut.”
The second and revised edition of this text
will be off the press some time during the
first part of October. The first edition was
published in 1915, and the new edition is a
thorough revision of it.

“En Glad Gut” is a beautiful peasant
romance, published in 1860, and very popular
in Norway.

The revised edition is edited with introduc-

tion, composition exercises, notes, and vo-
| cabulary. It is published by the Lutheran
| Free Church Publishing Company, of Min-
| neapolis, Minnesota, and is used in colleges,
| universities and high schools in the middle
| west where there is a considerable population
of Scandanavian extraction. The Universi-
ties of Wisconsin and Minnesota and the city
schools of Minneapolis are among the largest
users of the text.

Dr. Vowles also published in 1918 an an-
notated edition of Ibsen’s Terje Viken, in
collaboration with M. Michelet. This text
is also used extensively in the middle west.

Davidson students should be proud of the
fact that such men are numbered among her
faculty.

Mr. John Clyde Barrington, ’26, was
married to Miss Ruby Lee Honeycutt,
on Friday, August 12th, in New York
City. Mr, Barrington has been a student
at the College of New York City for the
past two years, and will make his home
in New York.

Footwear
for Davidsonians

We Want to
Meet the New
Men .

And Renew
Acquaintances

With the Old!

Visit Us

Gilmer-Moore Co.

at Charlotte

SHOES LUGGAGE

and Dyers. The advertisement gave the
price to be $4 for $6 worth of cleaning fo r
and pressing. The correct rate is $4 for!
$5 worth of work.

BEATEN

Also orders

taken for feeds,

special entertainments,
and home made candies

Tech and Davidson, and they are anxious
to open negotiations immediately for this
fray, since they have not had a game in|
their midst since 1923. The group there |
has also instituted monthly luncheons, |
whether all alumni.can gather at a desig- |
nated place for lunch. |

Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, was |

| See

MISS MINNIE

BISCUITS

POTATO CHIPS
AND
SANDWICHES

present at all of the meetings except the |
one held in Bainbridge, making a con- |
tinuous tour from Atlanta to St. Peters--|
burg. At all points he made a talk, which |
covered the progress of Davidson College |
withtn the past few years, and the pro- |
posed alumni work for the coming year. |
He also dealt with local situations and |
offered suggestions.

In commenting to a Davidsonian re-
porter about the trip, he expressed satis-
faction over the results, and believes
that all of the meetings were, worthwhile
to the individual alumnus, and that the
association qs a whole will profit mate-
tially through such local associations—
the basis of alumni activity. He also
stated ‘that many new addresses had been
obtained, and that approximately thirty
more alumni can be reached today as a
result of the tour. :

Victor

Bieler Casanar Co.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decoraticrs
Also
Steinway, Ivers & Pond, Geo. Steck, Brambach,
and Duo-Art Reproducing Pianos

Orthophonic Victrolas and

‘Brudswick Panatropes and Brunswick Records

Records

