THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

Poa

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

....-Editor-in-Chief
-Business Manager

HARLLEE. BRANCH. JR...
VERNON §. BROYLES.._......

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wie LIN Gg Wins sincecccaukicesueces Giseeous Managing Editor
BOY CEEMARTINI ga s.ch oe Assistant Managing Editor

-Associate Editor

eo ELBY. .--..-Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ..-Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY... --Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .-....-Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON.... Assignment Editor
Bi FV AON DG reece ahi ioidecs se ee ne a e eature Editor
Ti. PONDS eee eee ee Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF

DOUGLASS... -.-._--.-.- Assistant Rusiness Manager

WwW --Assistant Business Manager
-Assistant Business Manager
cosssuewee Subscription Manager
-.-Circulation Manager
Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW

TYREE DILLARD

B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER pes

B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

It is said that it is more blessed to give
than to receive. If so, the donor of the hun-
dred-thousand dollars to Davidson College
must be enjoying a great degree of blessed-
ness. But, with all his blessedness, he can’t
be enjoying any more pleasant sensations
than those now being enjoyed by the re-
cipients of his generous gift. :

D

We have just read some editorial com-
ment in the student newspaper at the Uni-
versity of Alabama anent Alabama’s great
football team, which won national pre-em-
inence by its last-minutes comeback in the
Rose Bowl game last Christmas day when
the red-jerseyed Alabama players held the
Stanford eleven to a draw. We rejoice with
the Alabama editor .in the fine playing of
Dixie’s most outstanding team, and beg
eye to remark that at last the Crimson

ide.

D
A TESTED PERIOD

Mid-year examinations, with all the men-
éal tortures‘that they suggest, are with us
again. A small group of seniors, sufficiently
foresighted to have applied themselves dur-
. ing the fall semester, have won the coveted
exemption grade, and have departed to dis-
tant places to celebrate their good fortune.

But, for the great mass of students —
freshmen, sophomores and juniors—no such
privilege is offered. Theirs is a matter of
compulsion, not of choice. To many of
them, no doubt, examinations will prove
more than a mere matter of compulsion; to
some they will mean disappointment and
remorse.

: It seems almost inconceivable that exam-
Inations in two short weeks should claim
such a great number of student casualties.
An excessively large percentage of under-
classmen, who have failed to apply them-
selves energetically and faithfully to their
scholastic duties during the four months pre-
ceding examination find themselves con-
fronted almost overnight with the prospect
of failure and dismissal from college. The
grim prospect of failure to many of these
precipitates and leads to the very failures
that they fear. Disconcerted by ‘harassing
memories of time wasted, they become de-
spondent and sometimes indifferent, As a
consequence they fail to stage the comeback
that might mean their salvation.

Then, too, there is a smaller group of fel-
lows, whose success during the fall months
has resulted in a false estimate of their
ability to get by. To these, examinations
hold no scare. They are too apt to rest on

_their laurels. Their success or failure will
depend, in a large measure, on the degree to
which these men trust to luck. Scholastic
conceit, based on the assumption that good
grades in the past are sufficient, leads quite
often to laziness during examinations—and
ultimately to failure. Failures under such
unfortunate circumstances only magnify
the student’s disappointment.

Examinations, in spite of statements to

-------.-Athletic Editor”

the contrary, are valuable in that they pre-
sent tests of both character and knowledge.
It is said that examination grades are poor
indications of what a student knows, or of
what he has learned. Be that as it may. No
one can deny that they are true tests of the
student’s ability to express himself clearly
and concisely, of the student’s ability to dis-
tinguish between the important and the un-
important, of his ability to understand, of
his qualities of mental control, of his will-
ingness to undergo actual inconveniences
for the sake of knowledge, of his energy,
and of his honesty.

The man who hopes to make a good grade
on his examinations must first learn self-
control. He must develop the ability to con-
trast the worthwhile and the useless, the
important and the unimportant. He must
learn to express his thoughts, his ideas, and
his knowledge with clearness and brevity.
He must attain such a degree of mental con-
trol that he will be able to concentrate on
the task at hand, forgetting for the while all
inhibiting thoughts. Finally, he must be
honest. He must neither attempt to fool
himself nor his professor, he must not yield
to wordiness and other forms of dishonesty,
perhaps worse, in an effort to make it seem
that he knows more than is actually the
case.

Industry, ambition, determination,’ con-
centration, and honestry. “These are the
attributes of the good student. An examina-
tion reveals the extent to which they are
possessed—and failure awaits the student
who neglects these traits. Examinations
are tests of character and of knowledge.

SELLING DIPLOMAS
At last someone has challenged the pre-
vailing practice of selling “college educa-
tion” to students for less than cost and mak-

ing up the deficit with million-dollar en- ~

dowments. Trevor Arnett, authority on
college finance, who presented an alternative
plan to the American Association of Col-
leges at Chicago last week, declares that the
failure to apply business-like financing prin-
ciples to the administration of American
colleges is one of the greatest evils in the
whole scheme of our higher educational
system. ne

According to Mr. Arnett, who seems to
know what he is talking about, tuition fees
should be raised gradually. until they ap-
proach the actual cost of college courses,

Mr. Arnett, who gave up the vice-presidency, :
of the University of Chicago to accept his

present position with the Rockefeller Foun-
dation, insists that “cost price education” is
an emphatic need in America today.

Many students can afford to pay in full,
even though the actual cost is about three
times the fee now charged, he declared. No
worthy student, he adds by way of explana-
tion, should be excluded simply because he
cannot meet the increased cost of education,

To enable the student to pay the propor-
tion of the cost of education chargeable to
him, generous use should be made of
scholarships, student aid and loans. Money
now given for endowments would naturally
be attracted to these funds.

This new form of “cost price education”
would apply chiefly to undergraduates in
the colleges of liberal arts, state supported
as well as privately endowed, where the
greatest influx of students is taking. place.
The graduate school situation is different
and could well be handled differently, Mr.
Arnett indicated.

Student fees in American colleges are on-
ly 31 per cent of the receipts for current ex-
penses, he estimated. Some colleges have
beenyforced to appeal to students to pay the
difference if they felt they could afford it.
According to Mr. Arnett, “this is just as if
a merchant would put a price tag on a gar-
ment for $45 and would say to his customer,
“This cost me $50. If your conscience

‘bothers you, you can pay the full price.”

Who would be inclined to pay? On the
other hand, if colleges send. to these stu-
dents a bill for the full cost, they will get
no come-back except in money.”

The pay-in-full plan would have a whole-
some effect on the colleges. It would make
them more efficient in their own financing
since excessive expenditures show up quickly

in fairly computed tuition fees. Parents and |

students, too, would get a clear understand-
ing of what college education costs, and
since they would have to pay more for it, the
desire to obtain an education would more
than likely be a serious one. Mr. Arnett in-
dicated these things in his address.

The unhappy result of the present method
of financing colleges was summarized by
Otis E. Randall, dean of Brown University,
who declared that “we are turning out the
most valuable product in the world for one-
third the cost. The world will not appre-
ciate the product until it pays a price com-
parable to that of the other desired things
in life.”

)
|
|
|

|
|
|
|
|
|

The Changing College

By WALTER R. AGARD, Dean of St. Jonn’s College, Annapolis, Md.

Editor’s Note: This is the first installment of a
series of articles now appearing in the Christian
Science Monitor, one of the nation’s most widely read
newspapers. Believing that the articles will be of
particular interest to cofege students and faculty mem-
bers, The Davidsonian will reprint. them. This. will
be done through the courtesy of the Monitor. Here is
the first of Dean Agard’s articles:

Who Should Go to College?

Americans are just beginning to, realize how
much the colleges of the United States have been
changing in the past 20 years. Rather uncritically
the college, which should be the home of criticism,
has grown, like other American institutions, in
size of plant and personnel, in administrative ma-
chinery, in complexity. One can picture the con-
sternation of the first faculties of Harvard or
William and Mary, should they return today and
see the thousands of students and hundreds of
courses in Cambridge and Williamsburg; one can
imagine Thomas Jefferson discussing college
policies with an alumni secretary of a graduate
manager of athletics. For aims and methods have
changed no less than material equipment.

But the period of uncritical expansion is near-
ing an end. Sheer increase in numbers of stu-
dents seeking admission to college has forced ad-
ministrators and teachers to analyze more acutely
than ever the function and procedure of college
training. What is the essential responsibility of
the college in our social scheme? Who should go
to college? What should they do there, and how
should they do it? What does the college owe
its alumni and other adult learners? There are
questions which are being earnestly reconsidered
today in the United States by such gatherings of
teachers as the Association of American Colleges,
the Association of American University Profes-
sors, and various regional and departmental soci-
eties. They are being considered quite as earnest-
ly by undergraduates, whose interest in the prob-
lems of their own education is constantly becom-
ing keener. The culmination of many smaller
conferences was the recent meeting of the Na-
tional Student Federation at Ann Arbor, with some
200 colleges and universities represented. There,
questions of curriculum and teaching, as well as
student activities, were vigorously debated.

As a result of these discussions, what answers
are being given? In these articles I shall review
some which seem especially important, and indi-
cate further steps which may be significant.

Responsibility of the College
What is the responsibility of the college in our
social scheme? Here there seems to be a con-
sensus among teachers and thoughtful students.
The college has been for too long regarded as a
social, business and athletic club, and has tolerated

and graduated men who have failed conspicuously.

to develop intellectual interests and enthusiasms,
The college does not exist to prepare men for
country-club membership, business success, or
social acceptability. Its purpose is primarily in-
telletual, and, in a broad sense, moral; to furnish
our civilization with men trained and eager to
make living more intelligent, to control rationally
all important social projects and policies, to re-
place crass satisfactions with sensitive discrimina-
tion. I know of no fairer statement than that
formulated in the Dartmouth undergraduate re-
port to President Hopkins:

“It is the purpose of the college to provide a
selected-group of men with a comprehensive back-
ground of information about the world and _ its
problems, and to stimulate them to develop their
capacity for rational thinking, philosophic under-
standing, creative imagination, and aesthetic sen-
titiveness, ad to inspire them to use these develop-
ed powers in becoming leaders in service to soci-
ety.

If this is to be accepted as the function of the
college, how shall students be selected? This has
become an acute problem in the past 20 years.
Statistics compiled by the Association of American
University Professors sl that from 1900 to
1910 collegiate cn rotten is country in-
creased 85 per cent, while population increased
only 21 per cent; the corresponding figures from
1910-1920 were 96 per cent and 14.9 per cent. The
college population in this country doubled within
10 years! Boys who would never have dreamed
of going to college 20 years ago now have the
means and the desire to go. Do they seek the
gifts the colleges ought to be offering?

For some time colleges were only too glad to
grow. Size here, as elsewhere, appeared to be an
index to success. But at last faculties have begun
to realize the liabilities of size. Education has be-
come watered down when great numbers of boys,
differing widely in ability and ambition, have been
grouped together for mass instruction; incoher-
ence of program and mechanical standardization
of method have supplanted the former values of
small communities devoted to well-undarstood
aims and taught by men who knew their students.
So: there has arisen a demand for limiting the size
of entering classes, and for imposing more rigid
requirements on those who wish to come. Where
formerly colleges would accept all boys certified
from secondary schools in good standing, now in

many cases only the upper third or quarter of the
graduating class is acceptable. Many colleges in-
sist upon examining all boys who seek admission.
Still others give psychological tests as well. More
and more colleges use personal-rating blanks, in
which a boy’s character and capacity for leader-
ship are investigated as well as his scholarship.

Boys .who fail to secure admission to the more
selective colleges, of course, still find it possible
to enter less exacting ones. There are very few
boys eager to go to college who cannot do so.

More Should Have Opportunities

Should we go farther and say that a large pro-
portion of these boys ought. never to enter college
at"all? Percy Marks voices the view of many
teachers when he states that less than half of the
undergraduates now in our colleges are intel-
lectually able to profit from a true college course.

With this point of view I cannot agree. It is not
true that too many of our boys go to college. We
need to have more, rather than less, receive the
broadening of mental horizon and the awakening
of intellectual interests which colleges should give
The fact is, not that too many go, but that they
stay too long and fail while there to get what their
capacity fits them for.

The college has gone on the assumption that
the men it admits should stay for four years. This,
it seems to me, is a mistake. A large proportion
of the boys admitted to college waste their own
time and that of the institution in remaining more
than two years.

Every high school graduate of average intel-
ligence and ambition should receive the general
background: of knowledge, and the cultivation of
intellectual interests and standards, which the col-
lege may be expected to give during the first two
years. At the end of that period most students
should go to professional, business and trade
schools, where specialized work on a relatively
low plane is required. Only those who are intel-
lectually of high caliber should be kept by the
college for the higher quality of work which
juniors and seniors should be asked to do, in
preparation for the higher professional schools.

Double Advantage

A double advantage would ensue. First, as
many boys as possible would profit from the train-
ing which such a general course offers. In an
age of narrow speculation, with intolerance and
bigotry often in seeming gontrol of social stiua-
tions, it is of the first importance that communities
should have as many men as possible so trained.
Colleges which refuse to offer this opportunity
generously are failing to fulfill their social respon-
sibility.

An excellent example of the need of such edu-
cation may be seen in the two American service
schools, the Military and Naval Academies. There,
at the present time, thousands of high school boys
of average intelligence are launched upon a highly
specialized career, without having secured the
fundamental cultural background which will en-
able them properly to appreciate their opportu-
nities of travel, or to represent their country with
distinction in times of peace. They have been
made to sacrifice breadth of training for the sake
of specialization which is narrow and excessive,
if the opinion of Admiral Sims be accepted His
recommendation of a real college curriculum for
men in the service, with intensive technical in-
struction chiefly at the end, seems a sound one.

Second, the colleges would gain by graduating
at the end of the:sophomore year all those men
who now impede the progress of both teachers
and able students in the honor work which should
be done the final two years. Our colleges today
are full of men just able to “get by,” and satisfy
the minimum requirements for graduation. By
all means give these men a diploma at the end of
their sophomore year; and by all means forbid
them to remain in college any longer.

“Who should go to college?” As many average
American boys as the colleges can arrange to
teach. “Who should stay in college?” After the
sophomore year, only those who are exceptionally
able and ambitious.
oi! !!!T.v8.Tffi hoolsctsbDfaf mtbagtm fagtmaftmt

We see by the papers where three New
York college boys, home for the Christmas
holidays grew despondent over life and
committed suicide. Well, that’s three New
Yorker’s, at least, who didn’t die of bootleg
poisoning during Christmas.

One billion gallons of oil is available in
the Deep River mining areas of North Caro-
lina, according to the finding of a chemistry
professor at the University of North Caro-
lina. Judging from that, everything will be
oil right.

D

There is something mighty attractive
about Will Rogers, world renowned humor-
ist. and cowboy philosopher. Folks who
heard the self-styled diplomat in Charlotte
Wednesday evening agree that his frankness
and sincerity add much to the quality of his
humor. He is the only mayor in America
who is intentionally funny.

