cats fourth ‘th ‘the ‘series,

e.
re

~_« .. AE AVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927

AS THE ATHLETIC
EDITOR SEES IT

GY.RAYMOND. LAKE... ..

Two state records broken, and another

State record established—how does _ that

state track meet? Any college which can
put out a man who steps off the 100 yard

dash in 9,6 and the 220 yard dash in 21.8

W. and L. Linkmen Lose | win over State Nine by Score of

is going some and deserves to be “put on the’
Pp

map”.
we hardly know what to say’ he deserves.
The official world’s record for the 100 is
9.5 and if Currie» keeps improving like he
has in the past, it looks as if it may be just
a matter of time till the world’s record for
the 100 will be held by “Currie of David-

son.”

In our opinion, there’s nothing which could
put a college on the map quicker or give it
more prestige than’ for one of its men to hold
a world’s record, and if this be the truth, it
seems to us that Davidson has a real oppor-
tunity to “step out”. What's there to keep
Davidson from having a representative at
the next Olympic meet? Currie has come
within 1-10th of a second of running the
100 as fast as it has ever been run before,
and there’s no reason to believe that, with
a world’s record at stake, he could not run
it one or two tenths of a second faster, and
capture the world’s record title for old Da-
vidson. There’s no doubt about the time for
the 100, cither,.
after the race, and there were enough stop-
watches for the time to he taken as absolutely
correct. A try-out for the Olympics can
surely be arranged for Currie, and if he
should qualify, which is very probable, it
seems to us that he should have a very good
chance to come out at or near the first in the
Olympic finals.

A great deal of space has rightly been |

given to the 100 yd. dash, but that’s not all
the Davidson representatives did. Currie al-
so pushed to the front in the 220 yd. dash,
and lowered the state record in that also,
running the distance only 1 and .3 seconds
s'ower than Roland Locke, present holder
of the world’s record in that event. The
relay team, composed of Currie, Goody-
koontz, Melton, and Pinkney, established a
state record, running the mile distance in
3 minutes and 29 seconds. This is the first
time that the relay race hag been run at a
North Carolina state meet, and the .record
_ established by the Wildcat runners is very
good and should stand for quite a while.

“Monk” Mattox left after the last fresh-
man game the other day for Columbus, Ga.,
where he will play baseball this summer.
We are interested in “Monk” and will watch
him with interest wherever he goes. We
wish him the best of luck, and know that
he will make a big addition to the Colum-
bus team. “Monk” played with Columbus
last year, and was known as one of the best
catchers in that section of the country. . Be-
fore playing with Columbus, he was with
the Carolina League, and his success there
was just as ‘marked as his success last year
with the Southeastern league,

If the baseball team could have gotten to-
gether in all their games as well as they
did in some of them, the recently closed
season would probably have been quite a bit
more successful. In the State game at Salis-
_bury last week, Meadows pitched a wonder-
ful game and was supported in unusual style.
Littlejohn deserves especial credit for his
fielding, playing the whole game and handl-
ing nine errors without making any error.
The Techmen won the game by one run, but
we have no complaint to make about the
way the team played. In the third’ State
game played here, the visitors looked for
a while as if they might capture the deciding
game, but the Wildcats soon “got going”, and

in the end were on the long en of a 11
to 6 score.

In looking back over the season, we tan
very easily see that, although the team did
not win as many games as they might have,
and although the outlook was mighty gloomy
at times, sfill the season as a whole could
have been much worse than it was, and we
have no, reason to be at all downcast. The
old Wildcat spirit did’ its part and kept the

_team from being the bottom member of the
_ Big Five teams, leaving that place to thé
State College nine, and placing the Wild-

As for the man who can do all this, |

F close, two of them ending in a tie

The track was measured | feat

|

Wildcats Climb Out of Cellar by Administering

sound for the record of one team in the)

Severe Drubbing in Third Wolfpack Encounter

Meet to Davidson Team

Local Golfers Show Good Form in|
Contest

Davidson College Golf team defeated the |
Washington and Lee golfers at the Charlotte |
Country Club, Monday, by the score of 16)

to 12. All the matches were exceedingly |

after
eighteen holes had been played.

The morning matches ended with the win- |
ner of the match uncertain and only to be |
determined by the afternoon matches.

In the matches of the morning, McGill of |
Davidson and: Ball of Washington and Lee
played over eighteen holes to break even at |
the end. Wolfe of Davidson defeated |
Lanier of Washington and Lee, 3 and 2. |
Martin Davidson defeated Rector of |
Washington and Lee, 5-and 3. Oleson of |
Washington and Lee came through to de- |
of Davidson, winning the first |
match for the Virginia boys, 3 and 2. Lingle |
of Davidson and Ward of Washington and |

ended their match, even, at the |
eighteenth hole. Porter of Washington and |

of
Love

Lee |
Lee defeated Mills of Davidson by the score |
of 3 and 2, |
The afternoon matches were played in |
foursomes, with McGill and Wolfe defeating
Ball and Lanier, 5 and 3, Martin and Lingle |
defeated Rector and Ward, 4 and 3. Oleson
and Porter defeated Mills and Love, to win
Washington and Lee’s only’ victory in the
foursome matches by the score of 3 and 2.
Keen competition was shown throughout
the entire match. Only a small crowd was

rare sort of playing was exhibiting by the
men from both schools.

Oleson and Porter played the best brand
of golf for the Washington and Lee team
while Wolfe played well for Davidson.

Fresh Tennis Team
Returns From Trip

Davidson Freshmen tennis team won one
match and tied another in a recent trip to
Carolina and’ Oak Ridge. The Carolina
match ended ‘in a 5 to 1 victory, Pettus los-
ing the only point to Palmore by the close
score of 4-6; 6-3; 8-6. -Johnston won over
Merritt by the narrow margin 2-6; 7-5; 7-5;
while the other two singles matches were
won over Wilson and Merritt by the score
of 6-4; 6-4; and DeCamp and Pettus won
over Kendrick and Palmore in a two set
match 7-5; 6-4,

At Oak Ridge where the match ended in
a tie, Halverstadt and Johnston defeated
King and Scott by a score of 6-4; 5-7;
6-3.. This was the first time the Oak Ridge
pair had ever been defeated, therefore the
Davidson men are to be highly praised. Pet-
tus and DeCamp also won their match with!
Johnston and Welmon in a two set match
by 7-5; 6-4. DeCamp was the only one who
was able to win in the singles. He defeated
Reid 8-6; 6-0 for the only lone set of the
match. Scott was able to win from John-
ston only after playing a 20 game set which
ended in Scott’s favor 11-9,

In the first meet which was held at Da-
vidson the Oak Ridge team defeated David-
son 5 to 1. After such a defeat it is con-
sidered a fine comeback to tie the match held
on foreign territory. The team seems to be
stronger in the doubles than in the singles.

by Davidson while all points which were
scored against the wildkittens were made in
the singles.

“How did the Smith wedding come
off?”

“Fine, until the preacher asked the
bride if she’d obey her husband.”

“Then what?” ‘

“She replied, ‘Do you think I’m crazy!”
and the groom, who was in a sort of 4

daze, replied, ‘f do’” ek

lina State Techmen; on their own diamond, |

| Wildcats landed on the offerings of Allgoo

out to see the two teams lock clubs, but a?

Every one of the doubles matches was wofi||

Many Records Smashed
by Stars in State Meet

Currie Lowers Two Records—
Relay Team Wins

11 to 6
ALSO DOWN FURMAN

om

: —
Take Final Game of Year From
Furman Players—Visitors
Use Three Pitchers With new records being set in every event
——— except the two hurdles and the javelin, the
On last Thursday afternoon, the varsity | State track meet held at Greensboro Satur-
|day proved to be an event which will be

| ta a time. Currie of Da-
defeat the Nonh Caro: | talked about for some ti

nine climbed out of the cellar position among
the state teams to

by a score of 11 to 6, in the second of a! seconds for the 100 yard dash to 9.6 seconds
two-game series. The Wildcats have played| which is only one-tenth of a second behind
State three times this season» winning two the world’s record. Currie also set OY
it of: tHrees waded | mark when he ran the 220 yard dash in 21.8
wu BE : | seconds, beating the record of 22 seconds

The visitors used three hurlers against the | Tich pee hatd: by RRA
Davidson aggregation, Beall, Allgood, and Mie Wee ee y ey.

Shelton. Beall was the most effective, pitch-
ing the first six innings, but was called in,
in favor of Allgood, near the close of the
sixth when he showed a decided weakness. |

z roved ineffective against the
‘ al sce Pace d_ ineffectiv 8 | The new record holders, other than those
Davidson hitters, and was replaced by Shel- |

ton, who pitched the last two frames. The | already mentioned ance Sides of State who
q| ran the 440 yard dash in 51.2 seconds, Wood-
ward of Duke with two minutes flat for

of

ney, set a record of three minutes and twen-
ty-nine seconds.

and Shelton to get almost half their hits in

three innings. Lucien Wells, Davidson . : :
twirler, allowed the Techmen only six hits | mipures, 26.6 seconds ay the mile, Prit-
that’ afternoon, five of these coming in the | chett of Carolina with 9 minutes, 57 seconds
fourth stanza when State made an equal | for the two miles making seven new records
number of runs. | on the track. i :
He surrendered another hit in the sixth, | There were five new marks established in
the field events as follows: Spurlock of

but blanked them for the other seven in- ;
nings. Johnston, of Davidson, led in the | peor Wayne bub tie 20) pound suey fo 76a:

hitting with three safeties out of five hits. 6 aN hos (es ee Vad GIL,
Ratchford, also of Davidson, left fielder, | SUS 131 feet 7 inches, Daniel of Wake
‘ ; . ,| Forest made a broad jump of 22 feet 1 and
made a beautiful shoestring catch of Hovis if

line drive and then doubled Regan off first | 5-8 inches, Brantley of Duke took the pole
* "| vault at 12 feet 2 inches, the next highest
man going only 10 feet 9 inches, and Mc-
Dowell of State with the new mark of 6

feet 1 and 3-4 inches in the high jump.
The only Davidson records. which have
been established this year are the two new
marks made by Currie in the 100 and 220
yard dashes. These records were previously
held by Goodykoontz with 10 seconds flat

The Davidson Wildcats nine swamped the
Furman team Saturday, in a game charac-
terized by numerous hits on the part of the
Davidson team, the game ending 16 to 5.
Furman used three pitchers in an attempt to
check the rain of blows, but all were defec-
tive, although Davis who came in in the
third inning ‘did creditably considering rather
poor support. For the Wildcats Cathey

|vidson made the most outstanding record |
when he lowered McPherson’s record of 9.9 |

The Davidson Mile relay team, composed | 9
: ; /a comparison of the laws
of Currie, Goodykoontz, Melton, and Pinck- | P

|

the 880 yard run, Elliott of Carolina with |

BATTING AVERAGES

These averages are for the regu-
larly scheduled games and do not in-
clude the two games with High Point.

Player At Bat Runs Hits Avg.
Dilifiscacsvssc. 78° 16-25 4642
Mocompell ... 15 210 °5,. oo
Harrison. ----- Aye) 8.320
Johnson ------ 89-16-26 295
Ratchford ---- 83 15 24  .289
Littlejohn ---- 35 O°. 10) 285
Woodham ---. 81 25 23 .284
Wells) cccecsce 43 OF 4206
Gathey <2-.--- 22 4 bye 43}
Meadows ----- 20 1 4.200
Wilson ~------ 10 4 2 ~=.200
Davis csosccu5 48 il 9 188
Gléih wescscese 11 2 Z 182
Crawford ----° 50 7 9 180
Kugler ------- 36 8 6 175
McGeachy ---= 43 3 7. = 103
Black 22-sc22 25 2 4.160
Murray ------ 3 0 0 .000
Grey aceccaces 6 1 0 .000
Hampton ----- 0 0 0 .000
Mauden ------ 2 0 0 .000
McCauley ---- 6 0 0 000
otals: wsuws. 726 140 180  .248

SPLIT DEBATE

(Continued from page 1)

proved by him, that there was no conflict
in the marriage and divorce laws of the
forty-eight states now, giving as an example
of Tennessee
with those of North Carolina. Another
point brought out was the fact that in the
United States there was too great a variety
of public opinion, and that a national law
couldn’t possibly bring the different factions .
together. ee 3

Horne, following Pritchett, and speaking

| for the affirmative, proved that a uniform

|
|

law would remedy the existing evils under

|the present system and offered’ the law

the affirmative would have enacted.

The final speech of the evening, made
by Sparger of the negative, gave an ad-
mittance of certain existing evils but declar-
ed that even if a national bill enacted those
evils would still exist. Sparger further prov-
ed, by law, that an amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States was reces
before such a nation-wide law could be
established.

sary

for the 100 and 22 seconds for the 220.
Both. these records were.broken by Currie
before the State meet. In thg meet with
V. P. I. he ran the 220 in 21.8 and in the
Wake Forest meet he set a°new mark of
9.7 seconds for the 100.

pitched an excellent game, allowing Furman
but three hits while his teammates were roll-
ing up a total of twenty safeties.

Davidson exhibited a batting eye that has
not characterized them heretofore, every Da-
vidson player getting at least one safe bingle.
Ratchford, of Davidson, led the hitting, get-
ting a double and three singles out of five
trips to the bat, while Johnson also of Da-|
vidson, followed with a triple and two singles
out of six times at bat.

The game as a whole was rather uninter-
esting, slowed up by numerous errors on
the part of both teams. The Furman team |
showed a noticeable weakness in their pitch- |
ing staff, Jones starting the game for the
visitors being sent to the showers in the
third inning. McElveer who relieved him
lasted only one third of an inning and was
sent to right field to replace Davis who per-
formed on the mound for the remainder of
the game. Johnson and Littlejohn, both of
Davidson, exhibited some very fancy catches
during the game, while Ratchford played
with his usual skill in the outfield. For
Furman, Byrne led the hitting, getting two
runs out of two trips to the bat.

“Wow-wow-wow-wow!” howled
future shortstop from the cradle.

“Four bawls and I walk,” sighed the
father as he slid from the nice warm bed
to the cold, hard floor.

WANTED

the

College men to cover allotted terri-
tories in North Carolina, Septem-
-er Ist to November Ist.

xcellent opnortunity to earn hand-

some commissions through in-
tensive work
For detailed information, address

BOX 1487
Greensboro, N.C.

Striped Shirts

that will make the tiger jealous
and the zebra wild--yet--these
shirts are the height of style.

Socks and ties complete the story.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

