4

—

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Fintered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of:

the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

10 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year
aaaooaaooaoaoomomomomOSIEIEeeeeeeee—llllllleeeeee
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.....---.---:-------- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES......_..-.....----- Business Manager

—_—_—_—_—_—_—————__—_—_—

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. L. LINGLE._-.---.--.- w-------—------Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS.....--2-..---------- 22 ---ee- Athletic Fditor
BUFORD WEBB..-_._.........-------------- Associate Fditor

H. L. SHELBY. -.----2--22-2---- 2 eno eee Humorous Editor

D. M. CALHOUN..-..-.---.-.0---------- 02-2 Alumni Editor

W. S. GORDON Assignment Editor

P. F. JONES_-- -.--Feature Editor

eee lee
BUSINESS STAFF

E. L. DOUGLASS. ....-.-.-.---Assistant Rusiness Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD.._...-------- Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE..-..-. --Assistant Business Manager
. A. McALPINE... -Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT. Circulation Manager

R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

T. T. JONES... seeeenceeeeeee oo -- President

A. N. BROWN. mee eee cece Vice-President

C..R. LAKE_.--- eee .. Seeretary-Treasurer

W. H. BAILEY J. P. McBRYDE

TYREFR DILLARD B. F. McQUEEN

J. L. ELY W. K. PRITCHETT

J. R. GRAHAM BK. WILSON

IONN GWIN W. RL. WEAVER

R. C. GRADY L. € WADSWORTII

R. H. KANE JOHN MORIARTY

J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

Hugh Arrowood, newly-elected president
of the student body, will assume the toga of
his high office within a few wees, and his
inauguration will be the signal for a re-dedi-
cation of all students tothe ideals and tenets
~ of the Davidson student-government system.
Hugh is a man who deserves the higttf tribute
that his election carries with it, and, accord-
ed the proper support by his fellows, he will
bear well the responsibilities of his new
office,

this minority can be educated to better
tastes, we can neither expect producers to
raise the standards of: their offerings, nor
can we hope for any lasting good from con-
sorship. The threat of censorship, it is
true, will make the purveyors of the prurient
more careful for a time, but the endurance
of the reform will depend largely upon the
public itself.

The very fact that of the plays of New

York for which there has been a consider-_

able demand fér seats, eight were so vulgar
and..indecent as to be offensive to persons
of ordinary moral tastes, demonstrates the

' fact that the.theater-going public is at
least partly to blame. “There is a question
as to whether the theater has debauched the
people or the people debauched the theater,”
says the Indianapolis News.

In these days when the modern university
has taken upon itself the responsibility of
training many young men and women for a
life work in drama, it would seem wise that
our higher institutions of learning should al-
so endeavor to create and foster an interest
in real drama even among students who have
no idea of making the theater a profession.
If we would clean-up the stage, we must
start at the right place. As long as the public
flocks to see indecent burlesques and music.
revues, we cannot blame the producers and
the actors. A public of higher moral tastes
will demand a higher type of drama.

CAROLINA’S REBELLION

At the University of North Carolina, 13
students have been suspended for gambling
by -the student-council, following repeated
warnings by thé president of the student-
body. An enraged group of students have
demanded that the action of the council, in
suspending violators of the student code, be
referred to the student-body, believing, per-
haps, that the members of the student-body
will reverse the decision of the Council and
permit the violators to remain in college.

The demand for a setting aside of the
University’s student-council decision is

based principally on_the—helief—that wit--
nesses were coerced into giving evidence
against the suspended students, and also
that the punishment inflicted by the council
is too severe.

To an outsider, who is unacquainted with
the case beyond the reports appearing the

‘student newspaper of the University, this

demand by certain members of the Carolina

~ versities ?

Keeping One’s Head in College

(Don’t Fall Prey to Chaos of Campus- Life)
By WILLIAM APPLE BAUM

The aim of university, in addition to offering
professional training, should be to cultivate the
mind. Unfortunately, our universities are found-
ed upon materialistic ideals; factories where pro-
fessionals are trained. And with what are these
professionals equipped when they leave the ‘uni-
They are equipped with a mass of
facts and a materialistic moral sense of justice.
They are equipped with such weapons that they
may best, in a “business” way, outwit those who
have not the skill and power resultant from a col-
lege professional training.

Now let us look into the camp of the student-
body. We have already seen that the average
student comes to college to acquire a professional
training. and he is sure to get such training if he
will only apply himself. Still we find that on the
whole the students do not apply themselves and
that they are somewhat displeased withthe edu-
cation and type of instruction they receive. Such
dissatisfactoin is seen very strongly amongst
freshmen, and a great deal less so amongst sen-
iors. This is due partly to the fact that the former
are not well acquainted with the university, while
the latterare. But the dissatisfaction is also due
to the lack of the personal touch between the pro-
fessors and the students. The freshmen, before
they. acclimate themselves to the campus environ-
ment, feel the cold, inhuman, speedy business at-
mosphere of the university, and it does not as a
rule, appeal to them. At first the students feel an
unconscious reaction to the entire university
system, but they soon‘learn to fit themselves into
their surroundings. Thus they learn to get along.

However, they soon find out what is what. And
so they learn that credits and honor points are the
main things which count towards securing the
diploma. The students learn that it is considered
a greater honor to be on the football team than to
be an “A” student. The students realize that the
the university is but a place of business—this and
nothing more. So what they do is quite natural;
they employ the business moral sense of justice,
and cheat whenever they can. And being dis-
satisfied, more or less, most students do as little
studying as they possibly can and “get by.” Then
when the finals come, they complain and cram,
cram and swear. They overload their brains with
excessive doses of facts—facts which they should
have learned through the course—and immediate-
ly after they hand in the final examination papers.

THE PUBLIC AND THE STAGE | Sttdeht=body is régrettable.” It cai quité

Forceful measures recently adopted in

New York toward a cleansing of the stage .

are being felt throughout the nation. In
every town and city, where theaters abound,
self-appointed consors are arising to con-

demn the indecency of the modern drama— '

police are stopping shows—while producers
and actors are being hailed into the criminal
courts to answer to.charges of obscenity and
vulgarity.

This latest reaction against prurient
tastes has followed close on the heels of a
similar move to eliminate the indecent art
magazines from our news-stands, and to
raise journalism above the level of damaging
sensationalism. Everywhere people are re-
joicing that at last the pendulum has started
its backward swing, and that there is a pros-
pect of saving the world from the vulgar and
immoral tendencies which have gripped it
since the close of the great war. Their op-
timism is only partly justified.

This is not the first time in the last few
years that a seemingly outraged public has
demanded reform and censorship of the
stage. Various experiments have been tried,
including the play-jury system, which de-
spite the praise which followed its inaugura-
tion some years ago, failed miserably in its
efforts to curb obsenity on the modern
stage. The present-day musical comedy,
and revue, with their predominance of jazz
and nudity, stand as bold reminders that
censorship efforts of the past have failed
dismally.

It is difficult to understand just why the
authorities have made this sudden move to
clean the stage. Without denying lofty in-
tentions, one must admit that police censor-
ship of drama in the past has proved absurd.
Theaters which have been raided, plays
which have been banned, actors and actress-
es who have been charged with indecency
have lived to enjoy renewed popularity.
Censorship thus far has only advertised the
-vulgar and obscene play, and, peculiarly

enough, the general public has been anxious

to crowd the theaters where a departure

from the conventional standards of pro-
priety has been advertised.

We are convinced that the great mass of
the people are interested, and for the most
part will patronize the clean human plays.
But, there is a minority, which demands
seats for the obscene performance, and until

naturally result in only one of the two
things; either a ratification of the council’s
action, or a setting aside of its decision—
and in either instance the student-govern-
ment is weakened, and, is the principal loser.

The students of the University are called
upon to either endorse gambling or to en-
dorse the action of their Council. Gambling
is forbidden by the laws of the Carolina stu-
dent-government association, repeated
warnings have been made by the President
of the Council that offenders, if apprehended,
would be suspended—and, now, regardless
of how the evidence was secured, the viola-
tors deserve the penality—inflieted by the
governing board.

Students, who attend a college at the sac-
rifice of their parents, are not to be treated
with favoritism when they violate both the

* do not care for anything else.

rules of the University and the human code —

of morals. By their very action, they forego
all hope of consideration.at the hands of
their fellows. They have injured them-
selves, but, more than that they have in-
jured all the other students who compose the
University upon which they have brought
general disfavor by their breach of honor.

One dissenter at Carolina would have the
action of the council set asile, simply be-
cause he feels that there are other offenders
‘who have not been apprehended. He feels
it unfair that one violator should be suspend-
ed, when another manages to escape detec-
tion. His argument is without support,
either by historical precedence or legal ex-
periences. No court in this land of ours
would be justified in acquitting one law
violator, simply becauge other violators had
not been brought to justice. Imagine the
chaos of our government if every violator
against the Eighteenth Amendment was
given his freedom, simply because the gov-
ernment was conscious of the fact that it
had not been able to place all similar viola-
tors under arrest.

It is-to be regretted that members of the
student-body at Carolina have to be coerced
into supporting their student-government,
but if they do, the Council, in its efforts to
maintain the Honor System certainly seems
justified in such coercion.

It is generally believed that students at a
University, of the outstanding calibre claim-
ed for North Carolina, will not let prejudi-
ces and a false sense of human sympathy
cause, them to endorse the actions of men,

guilty of reflecting discredit upon them.

selves and upon the University.

at

glass of gin, a Woman, and a ganie of poker will
All all their needs!

And so it goes on! When the fall comes, the
alumni visit their school, and in order to show
their loyalty attend the football games, bet on
their team, and cheer with the mad ecstasy of a
savage as the heroes make a play. The students
go on cramming and complaining. The profes-
sors continue to put many students—students who
for some reason do not sleep much nights—to
sleep with their dry lectures. The fraternities,
dances, balls, games, and snake dances continue to
remain the current topics of discussion in the
mouths of most students. Football heroes are still
being worshipped, and girls still continue to come
to college in search for husbands.

All this goes to make up the life of the univer-.
sity students, the system of education, and the
purpose and aim of our universities. Now, in the
face of all the above facts, what should the stu-
dent who comes to the university with the desire
to learn the deeper secrets of happiness do? What
should the student who has an individuality do in
order to preserve his individuality in this educa-
tional mill? Such a student is confronted with a
great task. He has to fit himself in with those
who come for social life. He has to fit himself in
with those who come to find busbands. Is it pos-
sible for any one to fit himself in with all these
types, and still retain his individuality? No. This
is impossible! To fit oneself into a system is to
accept that system as good, and’ do as everyone
else in it does. This may mean death to individ-
uality,

What then can such a student do? There is no
complete solution, but he can find compensations.
He can do many things. He can keep his eyes and
ears open, and learn more through observation and
reflection than any teacher can give him. He can
find student friends who have views and opinions
similar to his. He can try to win the friendship
of intelligent and broadminded instructors. A
small group of such men and. women are always
to be found at every university. There is always
a group of instructors on every campus who wish
to help the student in his search for truth. Such
teachers always have something worth while to
offer, and it is from them that he can learn things
worth more than the knowledge of twenty texts.
From the rest of the instructors, who are nothing
but an army of comma catchers, dogmatists, or

or rather crammed into their heads. The result is
that they actually learn very little.

And in such a manner the years go by, and the
students may pick up a few facts, or rétain a few
which have been shoved down their throats. They
receive diplomas certifying that the owners are
supposed to be fit to extract teeth, to outwit a
smaller man in a law case, or the like. About the
deeper and finer things of life they know very
little. They know how to make a living, and they
What do they care
about the political, social, economic, and human
problems of life? What do they care about ideals?
They are practical men!

they proceed to forget what they have learned, |

parrots repeating dates and facts, formulae and
laws, which they have memorized in the course of
decades, the student cannot expect more than
“patented” knowledge. Let nim take this knowl-
edge and exercise his own reason upon it.

As a result of these contentions it would seem
that there are some things which it would be
well for a student to know. And so in conclu-
sion I will say that he should know what the aim
of the university is, for what people corne to the
university and why so, and what he should do if
he wishes to retain and develop his individuality.
The result will be that he will find no trouble in
keeping his head in college, and above all, his

A good automobile, a 1 education will be tenfold!—The Reflector.

COLLEGE EDUCATION

College education is now two things that it
used not to be—it is rapid and it lool:s to making
the mind efficient rather than the mind’s adorn-
ment. Students come from all classes in the com-
munity and will take their training into a hun-
dred diverse employments. What type of college
man succeeds in after life? My feeling is that he
is not the chap who was into everything, a hail
fellow well met, receiver of the medal presented to
the most popular student. He is apt to be a man
who is, not devoid of sociability and careful to keep
himself in good trim physically. It is easy to be
drawn so deep into student activities that a man
feels he owes them primary allegiance. As a mat-
“ter of fact, a few years later on one of his fellows
he‘can remember who held that office. Student
activities are, taken by and large, the greatest
time wasters in college, even ahead of laziness.
They give very little in return for the hours spent
in their service.

—Sinclair Lewis, in Baltimore Sun,

Davidson will send representatives to
more different sections of the country this
spring than ever before. The tennis team
will journey to New York for a match with
Colgate and other eastern colleges; the
Track Team will be represented in the Tech
Relays in Atlanta; the debating team has
scheduled contests with colleges as far north
as Rutgers in New Jersey; and the baseball
team will visit practically every state in the
southeast, stopping in Atlanta for two
games with Oglethorpe University. This ex-
pansion in the schedule of our athletic and
debating teams assures the college of much

valuable advertisement beyond the boun-
daries of the Carolinas, to which we have so

. long confined ourselves.

ec a i

With all the overly-brilliant and overly-
sensitive prodiges of our high schools and
colleges committing suicide, there is distinct
relief in a news item which tells us that a
17-year-old negro convict in Durham, N. C.,
recently joined the youthful throng of self-
murderers. Maybe it doesn’t take so much
intellect and so much soul to see the “futil-
ity” of life, after all.

a }

Beyond a natural regret that college au-
diences cannot act civilized, we are glad to
learn that Davidson students are not the on-
ly ones who scream, whistle, and stomp dur-
ing the performances of visiting artists. At_
Salem College, the students are being repri-
manded by the editors of their paper, for
what they term “riotous, and barbaric be-

havior” during a recent Davidson Glee Club
performance there. It is to be hoped that
the Salem girls will show a favorable re-
sponse to the plea for more courtesy, but,
we must assure the bad little girls that their
lively conduct did not interfere with the Da-
vidson boys. Unfortunately, our students
are accustomed to such misbehavior. 4

—___p—____

Eight men competing for a place on a de-
bating team that only two men could make
=a number of students voluntarily dropping
by to hear the preliminaries—members ,of
the faculty, besides those acting as judges,
sitting through the tedious arguments!
That’s what happened here recently—and
yet, we hear on every hand that college stu-
dents are losing their interest in the scholas-
tic and literary enterprises.
