: Ti:DA VIM SONI N

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

————

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAV

IDSON, N. C., SEPTEM

BER 22, 1927

No. 2

PROF. E. J. CULLUM: |

SUPERVISES GLEE CLUB |
IN CHOICE OF NEW MEN

Two Clubs Chosen from a Hundred
Candidates—Several New Mem-
bers oo for Club This

ear

In Shearer Hall, on last Thursday night,
the annual try-outs for the Davidson College
Glee Club were held. There were about a
hundred candidates present to try out, and
this large number led to the forming of two
clubs, the regular college glee club, and a
second club of men who-did not make the
first club but who are to be held as reserve
men. Forty-three were chosen for the first
club and 16 were retained for the second.
Some of the men in the second club will very
probably be promoted to the first club at
some time during the year,

The try-out was held under the direction
and supervision of the new music director,
Prof. E. J. Cullum, who comes to Davidson
from Chicago, Ill. Assisting Professor Cul-
lum were the student officers of the Glee
Club: John S. Foster, of Winston-Salem,
president; R. E, Wilson, Charlotte, vice-
president; P. B. Frye, Blacksburg, S. C.
secretary-treasurer, and FE. L. Douglas, Au-
gusta, Ga., business manager. é

The men chosen for the first club are as
follows:

First Tenors: C. C, Clarke, Elizabeth-
town; S. R. Coker, Hartsville, S, Gey ees:
Gray, Richmond, Va.; H. R., Mobley, Reids-
ville; J. A. Cannon, Jr., Concord; H. Mc-

(Continued on page 8)

Guthery Made Business
Manager of Chameleon

Appointment Made..by Publications |

Boards Upon Resignation of
Charlie Trabue

|
Two Pep Meetings |

Arouse Enthusiasm

Enna |

According to Spike McGee that Wildcat |
spirit is not dead by a long shot, and what’s |
more, with eight Juniors trying out for posi- |
tions as assistawt cheer leaders, there is |
promise of exceptionally good backing for |
the teams this year. |
Two assistant cheer leaders will be cfosen |
some time this week from the eight competi- |
tors: Jim Embry, Nelson Myers, John Pope, |
Bob Grady, John Bradley, Doug Wilkinson, |
Peewee McElwee, and Kendrick Pritchett. |
As usual, the cheer leader for next year will |
be chosen later from these two assistants and |
will be awarded a “D” for his service.
“I don’t believe the pep of the student |
body will be harmed in the least by the dis- |
continuing of the street parades,” stated Mc- |
Gee. Shirt tail parades, out-door pep meet- |
ings and bon-fires on the Fresh field will take |

Sept. 24—Citadel, at Gastonia, N. C.
Oct. 1—U. of Fla., at Gainesville, Fla.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
|
Oct. 8—Wofford, at Spartanburg, S. C.
|

Oct.-15— Elon, at Davidson, N. C.

Oct. 22—Wake Forest, at ‘Charlotte. |

Oct, 29—V. M. L., at Davidson, N. C. |

Nov, 5—N. C. State, at Greensboro. |

Nov. 12—Carolina, at Chapel Hill. |

Nov. 24—Duke University, at David-
|

son,

Wildcat-Cadet Scramble
Holds Much Innerest as
Initial Game of Season

First Davidson-Citadel Game in
Four Years

ODDS EVENLY MATCHED

Large Percentage of Students Ex-
pected in Gastonia for Opening
Whistle

As the final week of the training -season

IDEAL MODERN COLLEGE
PICTURED BY DR. MIMS
IN TALK MONDAY NIGHT

‘Conglomerate View

of Fresh Imports

Mr, Average Frosh stood by the small col-
lege station mournfully regarding the train
from which he had descended as it rounded
the curve and disappeared beyond the mill
that parallels the track. When the second,
or last coach was lost to his vision, he turned
and slowly made his way up Depot Thor-
oughfare toward Central Avenue. He had
half-expected to be met at the station by a
group of mature Chinese mandarins as he
had been summoned early to take part in the
ceremonies of orientation, but since these had
not appeared he decided it would be best for
him to look them up. :

While crossing the avenue he was accosted
by Mr, O. Dignified Senior, who solicitously
directed him to the Central Y. M. C. A. in
College Park. Here he registered, tabulated,

fumigated and designated to adorn himself

“Specialization and Culture” the
Subject of Noted Lecturer of
Vanderbilt—First of Series
of Lectures

Last Monday night, Dr. Edwin Mims, of
Vanderbilt University, appeared in the first
of the ;season's public. lectures in Shearer
Hall before a large audience of students,’
members of the faculty and their families.
Dr. Mims, who is a noted lecturer, writer,
and sociologist, spoke.on “Specialization and
Culture,” and the worth of his material held
his audience throughout the lecture.

Dr. Mims was introdgiced by Prof. H. T
Lilly, who studied under him at Vanderbilt
University.

Woodrow Wilson's ideal of a modern col-
lege of liberal arts, and the tendencies of
modern schools to get completely away from
that ideal, formed’ the chief topic of Dr.
Mims’ Wilson, speaking at the
Sesquicentennial celebration of Princeton
| University, called his ideal college “a place’

address.

the place of the former. street exhibitions, | Moves along the Davidson Wildcats are pre-
which were stopped because of objections | Paring for their opening game with the Cita-

with the insignia of his wank; namely, head-

reir of characteristic design; after which he where men find a center of learning; a free

place, a place of sagacious men—men who

from the townspeople. The parades will be
of the same type as before, the only change
(Continued on page 3)

Charlotte Pastor
Talks at Vespers
in Shearer Sunday

The Vesper services on Sunday evening
were most impressive. The speaker of the
evening was Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pas-
tor of the First Presbyterian ‘Church of
Charlotte. Following the devotionals, Dr.
Richards introduced the speaker of the eve-
ning.

The text that Dr. Johnson took was from

That V. J. Guthery will be the business
manager of the Chameleon for, the ensuing
year instead of C. C. Trabue was the rather
surprising information divulged by members
of the Publications Board after its first
meeting held recently.

This action was taken at the request of
Trabue, who had previously tendered his
resignation on account of the pressure of
other scholastic and campus activities.

The business manager of the Chameleon
is usually chosen by his, predecessor and ‘this
choice approved by the Publications Board
or the new manager may be selected by the
board out of several men recommended by
the retiring manager. This is the first time
in the existence of the board that it has been
called upon to fill a vacancy.

The newly chosen manager is well qualified
for his position, having been biisiness man-
ager of “Sanity Rare” last year. He will en-
ter upon his duties at once. The remainder
of the staff wili remain intact as chosen last
year,

The first issue of the Chameleon will ap-
pear in October, according to a statement
made by J. G. Wharton, editor.

Announcement is made that all men who
wish to submit material for publication in
the first issue will prepare their papers and
hand them to the following associate editors:
Short stories, Browne McQueen; essays,
sketches, and impressionable studies, R. H.
Boggess ; poetry, Boyce Martin; and reviews,
Caldwell Withers. Every Davidson man is
urged by the Chameleon staff to give the
Magazine his support by submitting material
which he thinks is suitable for publication.
Definite and’ detailed announcements ‘in re-
gard to the Chameleon will be made later by
the editor, J. G. Wharton. He requests that
material shall be submitted to the associates
not later than October 1st.

.

the first chapter and eighth verse of the book
of Daniel, “And Daniel purposed in his heart

snot to defile himself with the king’s dajnties.” |
| The speaker took up the subject by showing |

how Daniel and -his companions were in a
strange land and were surrounded by all the
temptations of the king’s court. Under such
conditions as these, there was the greaest
test of a man’s soul. Man’s life is a series of
crises and Daniel’s life typified this. There

Daniel to abandon his moral standards and
ideals, but he did not. He was steadfast in
his faith.

The same temptations that
Daniel confront the college man of today,
went?on Dr, Johnson. There are as many
temptations in the average college as there is
room for. Although Davidson is renowned
for its high standards, that is no reason why
there are no temptations here on the campus.
The college man is greatly urged not to be
too exacting in his moral standard. It is re-

out in the conviction of the high standard,

respected and who did not have a high stand-
ard of morality? Custom, he said, is a great
thing. Much is done in the name of custom.

a great deal of will power not to do what all
the rest are doing.

In regard to college life, said Dr. John-
son, there are four things which is~lacks.
The first is the lack of individualists. They
are the ones who stand above the others for
their convictions. Nearly every college men
is die-stamped. The second-is that the col-
lege man lacks responsibility. When a man
reaches college age he should take on some
morat responsibility. The responsibility be-
longs to.the man. The third is that lack of

(Continued on page 5)

was all the persuasion in the world to force |

confronted |

ported that men do not like those who stand |

but was there ever a man’ who was greatly |

Men do many things that are not right mere- |
ly because all the rest are doing it. It takes |

| del Cadets, at Gastonia. The initial action
| of the 1927 season will be executed Saturday
| afternoon,
| Great interest is evident in the opening
| game and little is being said on the campus
|in regard to the outcome, but there will be
| approximately 600 of the students on the field
| When the opening whistle blows, to do their
| bit. “Spike” McGee will ‘have his yelling
Freshmen ably backed by the older heads,
| driving the “Wildcat Wild.”
| This is the first time these teams have met
| since 1923, when the Cadets were taken un-
| der cover by the Wildcats by a 7-0 count.
| The seemingly ancient custom of playing
Elon the opeéiitiz game has been altered and
| they are being played later on in the season.

This makes the available advance dope on
' the game rather scarce. One sport writer
picks Davidson to win by a, small margin,
while another picks the Citadel to be victor
in the same manner, so there is much in
store for the horde of spectators that are
| expected at the game.

Unusually warm weather has caused the
training to be rather light and stiff work-outs
have been few. Coach Younger ran his men
in a rather hard scrimmage against the
Freshman team Saturday afternoon, but
nothing spectacular occurred as they had an
| easy time with the Freshmen. ;

Present prospects are that there will be
two heavy teams on the geld at this opening
game. Davidson has the heaviest’ team this
year that have worn the red and’ black jer-
seys for quite a few seasons, and dope from
the Citadel camp shows them to have some
heavy men. The Citadel team as well as the
Wildcats have lost several of the letter men
| from last year’s lineup,

Nothing definite can be said of the South
Carolina team, but rumors are out about a
great central section of the line, Bull King
jand Figg are tackles beginning their third
year on the varsity, weighing 178 and 189
pounds respectively, and they are showing
up best of their careers this season. Skelton,
Thompson and Howard will probtbly fill the
center and guard positions.

The Davidson team in their present form
| will average around 165 pounds. The back-
| field will be unusually light, averaging 152
| pounds, These men should be unusually fast
| and finding the holes which a heavier line
opens up. The old line has been replenished,
with extra weight taking the place of ex-
perience, |

The tentative line-ups for the game fol-
lows:

Citadel—Weight Pos. Davidson—Weight
Eppe—144 2 2522--5- e ee Arrowood—160
End
(Continued on page 3)

was left free to wander. Following the laws
of thigmopropism, he was propelled toward a

t

(Continued on page 8)

Intensive Tryouts

Held for Davidson

College Orchestra

The Wildcat Serenaders, Davidson’s fore- |
most interpreters of the Spirit of Jazz, are |

holding regular practices in preparation for

another season. Three men were lost from

last year’s orchestra, R. B. McConnell at the |

drums, Billy Wilson and Raymond Walters
at the saxophones. These players will be
sorely missed, but there is a lot of good ma-

terial trying out for their places. Sam Coker, |
a Sophomore, is slated to handle the drums, |

while there are several new men who are
after the saxophone berths.

The old members of the jazz orchestra are

C. J. Albright,. who, for the past year, be- |
sides skillfully handling the banjo, has been |
the director. A. J, Thompson plays. the saxo- |

phone, doubling with the clarinet. At the
piano is Paul G. Fry, who has easily shown
his superacy as a pianist. Then there is our
gymnast, Gordon McSwain, who simply over-
flows with pep as he produces sounds from
his trombone unequalled by others. C. C.
Orr also plays the saxophone, and Hoot Gib-
son the helicon. B. H. O. Gerr, with his
super-skill with the first trumpet, is an essen-
tial of the orchestra.

The new men trying out are Dodson, saxo-
phone; J. R. McCravey, second trumpet, and
as before mentioned, Sam Coker at the
drums. The Freshmen responded to the call
for try-Outs of new talent. For the past
year the orchestra has consisted of eight
members, but they hope to add two new in-
struments this year. The Serenaders~have
been practicing intensively'and will be in ex-
cellent style soon.

During this year they expect to have the
aid and co-operation of Professor Cullum,
of the newly founded Department. of Music,
who will be a material contribution to their
further success.
the past, act as a unit of the Glee Club, mak-
ing all the trips with that organization. But
besides this the Serenaders have an extensive
program all of their 6wn from which the
members gain quite a substantial recom-

pense.

Over seven hundred men died in New
York last year from poisoned liquor.

i

Big men never neglect the little things.

| college students,

{have a yearning for knowledge; a_ place
| where men are used to the rough ways of
| democracy, yet a place secluded from the
| passing world, set apart as a nunnery where
| the mind might roam with the ancients with-
| out the blare and distraction of the material
} world, This ideal college was contrasted by
| Dr. Mims to the popular conception of col-
(Continued on page 8)
2

New Features Proposed
_ for “Quips and Cranks”

| Photographer for the Annual Com-
ing the First Week in October

Witt Hancock, the editor of the “Quips
}and Cranks” for the coming year, announces
that during the first week in October the
photographer for the annual will be at Da-
ividson to take the photographs for the
“Quips and Cranks.” In accordance with
the plan inaugurated last year, each member
of the student body will have an individual
| picture.

One of the features of the 1928 yearbook
which will be similar in some respects to
that of 1927, will be the carrying out of an
historical theme. The nature of this.theme
is not yet ready for publication. It is known,
however, that the figure will be one connected
with Davidson College and will be of inter-
est to the students as a whole.

‘bhie present annual staff has had much
experience and has shown itself to be very
capable in the past, so the 1927-“Quips and
Cranks” should in every way be the equal to
that of the past year, which was an excellent
one. * This year’s annual will have several
new points of interest, notably the introduc-
tion of student art work. Glenn Fry, the
‘art editor, will have charge of this, and it is
intended that much of the drawing such as
| the introductory pages to the different de-
| partments, which has been done in the past
by professional artists, will be done by the
It is thought that this will
prove satisfactory, though the last attempts

They will, as they have in | at student illustrating were rather discourag-

ing.
Work has already begun on the 1928 year-
book, and it will go to the press in time to
be in the hands of the students before the
summer vacation begins. |

Is love at home in your house? If not}

it is only a house, not:a home.

Cherish the body, but only as the cas-

ing of the soul, 3
