THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 17, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina allegtite Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office of Diviliey as Mail “Mateer of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown daueee will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, TR. ab beuecdcssuecsseneebuttorsin: Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES..--.--- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

_.-.--.Managing
-Assistant Managing
usuccbetussaccen Athletic
-Associate
----Alumni
--Exchange
ite ..Humorous
davaunashanaue Alumni
xastawe Assignment Editor
cunene eature Editor

. Inquiring Reporter

W..L.

Se, E.. Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

FR. JONTS.....
. JONES.__.-

BUSINESS STAFF

By Ak DOUGUASSiclceonccuaess Assistant Rusiness Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD_. ..-Assistant Business Manager
ULIA? JAKE .-Assistant Business Manager
ASoMOAIRUN Diakccs cclasuasucccusiee Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT-_- ...Circulation Manager
Ri SABPRNETHY 25 2. 2c. ses Service Manager

pase Club

C. C. MURCHISON R, LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON K R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R, He McILWAINE
J.L. ELY J. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH A. Mt Saad
TYREE DILLARD B. WILSO

J. R. WEAVER B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

The student who jokingly placed a “bank-
ruptcy” sign on the door of our Student
Store is the type of practical joker who
should be tied to the whipping post and
physically punished for his thoughtlessness.
His prank has caused the managers of the
store considerable w orry and inconvenience
in regaining the fine credit with wholesale
dealers that his joke almost destroyed.

D

The petition of the ‘student-body urging
the construction of adequate tennis-court
facilities recalls the ancient adage “Drip-
ping water will wear away the hardest
stone.” (Maybe). ;

D

“A thousand pardons” was once believed

, to be an extravagant phrase of politeness,

but “Ma” Ferguson has made it look like a

piker, with more than 3,000 — Arizona
Record.

For the first time in the history of col-
legiate failures, the “flunker” has proved
himself of benefit—at least as an advertising
medium, A New York business college uses
the “flunker” to illustrate the disadvantages
of not knowing shorthand,

D

For every man who doesn’t smoke, there’s
a flivver or a woman who does.—The O’Col-
legian,

D-
COMMENDABLE JOURNALISM

The refusal by a large number of influen-
tial newspapers to print details of the re-
cent “Peaches” Browning divorce trial has
brought a considerable measure of praise to
American journalism. After so many years
of vulgarity and obsenity in the contents of
most of our papers, it is a pleasant surprise
to find American journalists waking up to
the realization that sensationalism is not the
best policy after all.

The Christian Science Monitor, as a re-
sult of its rejection of all stories dealing with
crime, was undoubtedly the leader in a

movement that is continually elevating the
tone of American journalism. The Boston
Traveler, the Washington Evening Star, the
St. Petersburg Times, The Atlanta Consti-
tution, and the Lynn Item are among the
publications that have more recently enlisted
in the war against the satisfaction of vulgar
appetites, habits, or passions through the
news columns,

College editors will do well to notice the
new trend of morality in journalism. » Ob-
scenity and-vileness have too often been the
characteristics of college writings. The're-
cent decision by the editor of the Red and
Black, to print the police court records of
University of Georgia students, despite the

v j
fact that it was perhaps, prompted by high |
motives, was, none the less, an example of
the sort of “stuff” college editors should
guard against.

The powerful influence of Journalism in
the molding of student, as»well as public
opinion and morals should place a perpetual
check on the vile tendencies that have char-
acterized some of our writings in the past.

|

“OLD MAN” DARE

“College students are not be blamed for
what they do, but for the unsufferable num-
ber of essential things they fail to do.” So
says Old Man Dare, philisopher, oracle of
wisdom, and author of a book of short talks
recently distrbuted among certain David-
son freshmen by the Y. M. C. A. secretary.
The book is entitled “Old Man Dare’s Talks
to College Men.” The author is in reality
Howard Bement, head of the Department of
English, at the Hill School and nationally
known, for his four-minutes, common-sense
talks to college students.

“Four minutes,” says Mr.

Bement, “is the

divinely appointed interval within which all

the sacred revelations have been imparted
to man. Moses must have been on Sinai
about that length of time; and God’s talk
to Paul on the Damascus road was a four-
minute speech.”

In a concise, unique and racy manner Mr.
Bement considers five of the main problems
confronting the average college student.
With quick wit, forcible aphorisms and un-
usual similes he brings his lesson of ex-
perience to the hearts of his readers, in a
way not yet touched upon by the average
“student reformer.”

The book is written primarily to frater-
nity men, but the truths which it brings are
applicable to all Davidson students.

“What are you here for?” asks Mr. Be-
ment. “You are here to become a three-
story man, Most of you have loaded your
basement with stamina and are playing high
jinx with the second floor of scholarship.
The second floor with most of you is only
a rough hewn attic, stored with useless lum-
ber and junk which you have lugged in from
a lot of college courses into which you put
neither the stamina of persistent effort, nor
the heart of sympathetic understanding.
You don’t live there at all, and the place sis
cold, bleak, and uninviting.”

The second talk on “How to Study” is
given through the medium of a negro serv-
ant, and compares the methods of study of
most students the action of certain barn-
yard animals. “Don’t be tight-muscled,
muley, and obstinate,” says Old Man Dare,’
“the good learning wants to lead you some-
where, but you’re too tied up. with stub-
bornness to move.”

In his talk on “Why Study,” Old Man
Dare shows conclusively that there is a law
as strict as that of the Medes and Persians
that those who achieve most before grad-
uation are likely to achieve most after grad-
uation,

In his closing talk he shows the “Causes
and Tffects’ of misdirected college effort. |
“Man reads,” he says, “at twenty from a |
Sook that “whatsoever a man sows, that
shall he also reap;” but hé discounts his
reading and believes that he is the great ex-
ception to all rules: At forty he reads from
the scroll of life the same grim truth, and
then rejects the law of chance on which he
formerly built his exception. He once
hoped, he now knows. Cause is merciless,
effect is inevitable.”

So in a simple straightforward way ld .
Man Dare dictates a tried and true phil-
osophy to the college student.

Of the book, Marion Le Roy Burten, na-
tional educator, has said, “Every fraternity
man in America ought to read this little
book. He ought to read it as a freshman
because it tells in plain words just the
choices he must make. He ought to read it
as an upperclassman because it will give
perspective to a joyous life, the serious |
duties of which he may neglect. He ought
to read it as an alumnus because, with “Old
Man Dare,’ he has messages in his soul
which this book should prompt him to de-
liver.”

—W. I

What is happening in the college world?
Six students commit suicide because they
cannot bear the futility of life. A co-ed stu-
dent in Kansas robs a bank to secure funds
with which to complete her education. Is
education doing this for our young people?
Is the development of the intellect resulting
in a weakening of the will? Are we educat-

ing cowards and criminals in our modern
colleges?
“Live,” advises a contemporary journal, “so that you

can write a five dollar check without worrying.” Why
not finish the sentence by adding “Other people?”

‘from

Why So Many Student Suicides?

(Is Education Demonstrating Only the Futility of Life?)

One cannot read of the suicides of ten Ameri-
can college students in a single month without
wondering what is happening to our colleges that
students should be finding life so futile and death
so alluring. Newspapers, editors, overemphasiz-
ing the significance of student suicides, have
sought in vain, it seems, for an explanation of
this current wave of youthful despondency.

An editorial writer for the New York World
inquires whether it is possible “that the Ameri-

| can nation, in its desire to bring itself to a high

educational standard, has driven its school mach-
inery at too high a speed?” Jumpers-at-conclu-
sions declare excitedly: ‘“That’s what comes of
reading pessimistic Education is
being overdone.” Scare-mongers whisper: “It’s
a wave, sweeping the colleges—a club—the mem-
bers make a solemn compact.” Learned psychol-

philosophers.

ogist, as is pointed out in a recent issues of Time,
have offered numerous explanations, none of
which “hold water beyond the obvious likelihood

that one man’s suicide might arrest the attention
of another man who had contemplated suicide
for himself.”

Of all. these The
most inclined to accept that of the jumpers-at-
although we cannot agree in toto
with all that*this explanation embodies. We an-
not ourselves that education’ is being
overdone—rather, we are of the opinion that
true has been neglected in those curric-
ulums which induce students to give up in de-
spair, and lead them to prefer the mysteries of
death to the beautiful promises of life. In Ameri-
ca’s headlong rush for educational supremacy, in
which we have adopted the typicaly American
slogan of “Education or Bust,” we have sacrificed
the idealistic symbolisms of a true culture.

We hear with increasing emphasis that we are
living in an age of materialism, and yet we are
too adventurous to heed the warnings against the
chaos that will follow such materialistic tenden-
We have lost sight of the great vision of
true education. We hurry along in the quest of
facts and theories which will only add the
hopelessness of life, and when we have found
them, we are despondent.

explanations, Davidsonian is

conclusions,
convince

education

cies,

to

‘Education is not education if it fails to teach
of life in the proper perspective. True educa-
tion should be inspiring not desparaging. When
our colleges, with all their hypothetical instruc-
ton, turn their backs on the World’s call for lead-
ership, and stuff the minds of youth with deaden-
ing philosophical theories and blinding psychologi-
caL-pessimism, they encourage such catastrophes
ag those of which we write.

We do not advocate the a system of instruc-
tion for our colleges in which the beauties of life
are exaggerated and the weaknesses of human
nature excused. That is another extreme, and,
although less precarious is would be fully as mis-
leading. Neither do we believe in a system of in-
struction which blinds the eyes of students to the
beauties of life, to the opportunities for service
among the less fortunate, and to the joy that a
full life inevitably brings. To hide the beauties of
life beneath an avalanche of pessimism can only
result in despondency for our college students.

A college education should teach a man how to,
live. When it demonstrates only the futility of
life, it is a failure.

College students, in their sophomoric attempts
at satisfying an intellectual ego, have begun to
demand what they term “the truth about life.”
An instructor who teaches them only those things
of life which are exemplifications of true beauty,
finds himself criticized and scorned by the under-
graduate body. Some students want only the
darker side of life. They are seeking after a God
of Materialistic Truth. Pessimism rewards their
efforts. An instructor, if he has the courage,
keeps on stressing the hopefulness of life, not
neglecting to point out human frailities but al-
ways offering’? a suggested remedy for their al-
leviation. The less courageous instructor yields
either to the student demand for materialism or
to his own tendencies in that direction, and teaches
that life is a drab thing, offering only suffering
and anguish—and he quickly finds himself a pop- ~
ular man. He stops at nothing. New fangled
philosophy and psychology are his fads—and the
development of cynicism, skepticism, and agnos-
ticsm among the students is the inevitable result
of his pedagogy.

Of the ten student suicides, seven. occurred in
state universities, and all of them in the over-
crowded areas of the East and Middle West, where
a wave of modernism has left life stripped bare
of much of its former promise. All of which leads
us to the further conclusion that there is too little
consideration of God and man’s relation to Him
in our modern scheme of college instruction.
When we lose sight of God, when we sacrifice
our idealism on the altar of a distorted educa-
tion, when we turn our backs on the finer sort of
culture in our head-long rush after facts, and,
finally, when we lose the true perspective of life
in the scramble for. knowledge, we invite and en-
unhappiness and despondency.

Indulgent readers will pardon us for para-
phrasing an old adage so as to make it read:
“Too much knowledge is a dangerous thing.”

courage

4

Activities and Studies

They Can Be Correlated A)
DR. MARY YOST

(Dean of Women--Stanford University)

The day when curricular work in colleges was
irreconcilably separate and distinct
student actvities” with the implication (oft-
too well founded) that students are “active”
only the classroom is fast receding into
the limbo of forgotten things, according to Dr.
Mary Yost, dean of women at Stanford Univer-
sity.

Miss Yost points out that curriculum making is
now, claimng the interests and serious thought of
college students, thus becoming in itself a “stu-
dent activity.” The fact that the 3,000 college stu-
dents at the second annual congress of the Na-
tional Students’ Federation of America at its meet-
ing last month at the University of Michigan de-
voted an entire session to the problem of curricu-
lum making bears out her point. In a number of
universities the students already have commit-
tees on curriculum making. “And since the stu-
dents are taking such an interest in the problems
of the faculty,” says Miss Yost, “the faculty must
work on the student problems, and this will really
make us co-workers, which, it seems to me,-.stu-
dents and faculty ought to be.”

It is not as if the faculty have not been inter-
ested in the student activities in the past. They
have often been too much interested, Miss Yost
says, but the interest has been in trying to censor
and check student initiative. With the new point
of view which she hopes for, the faculty will
trying arbitrarily to. control student ac-
tivities and will work toward connecting these
activities will’ be more definitely realized. This
connection will help students to formulate intel-
ligently their own inner convictions, which, after
all, are the only real guides to their actions.

Present Examples

There are numerous examples of this kind of
co-operation which are already operating success-
fully. College newspapers are used as laboratories
for the journalism students and school cafeterias
are run by domestic science classes. It has been
shown that curricular and extra-curricular activi-
ties need not be antagonistic and Miss Yost believes

considered

“

en
outside

cease

they should be supplementary—that they should

enrich and vivify one another. The already

noticeable tendency toward co-operation of the
two can go much farther, she says, so as to take
place between practically all student enterprises
and the corresponding academic study: For in-
stance the ‘experiment in student body govern-
ment in universities would have a much deeper
significance if it were taken seriously as a labora-
tory problem lasting over an indefinite period in
place of looking ahead not more than the four
years of one college generation as it does now.
Such an experiment would use the departments of
economics and political science as laboratories for
working out the most useful and efficient form’of
government. Students would be inclined to base
their governmental acts on sound political theory
rather than opportunism. Those who had
anarchistic theories might advance their argu-
ment and decide whether they were wise or not.
“Now,” says Miss Yost, “students go to class and
hear the most up-to-date and scientific theories
of government and then turn right around and run
their own class and student body meetings in an
undemocratic way, subordinating the good of the
whole to the interests of a few.” And with a
twinkle she adds, “There are regular ward poli-
ticians in the student body elections!” She feels
that a close tying up of academic theory with ex-
tracurricular practice would modify and improve
the present state of affairs under which students
subscribe to intelligent theories while in the class-
room and then run _ their ee affairs on
theories exactly opposite.
; Two Tendencies

In the present trend of education which points
to this kind of co-operation, Miss Yost sees two
distinct’ tendencies: one, an emphasis on the in-
dividual as opposed to the one-time consideration
of children as a mass, and the other, a widening of
the conceptions of education beyond the class-
room—a realization that it is not only the class-
room that educates but, the whole environment,
including the social and the physical, that deter-
when he grows up. This broadened conception
gives increasing importance to students’ activities,
since they give the college man and woman prac-

(Continued on page 3)

on
