5

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Friendship Constitutes Theme of Last
Student Service at “Y” Vespers Sunday | Taken Into Spanish Club

“He
loving

way through the program which was planned
a little differently from the usual form of
vesper services. Instead of having a ‘main
speaker, the meeting was led by several of
the “Y” officials. Mimeographed copies of
the program were given out at the door.
These contained several very fine responsive
readings, one of the most impressive of
which was:

Leader: If Christ the Lord should come
today, as erst to Peter by the sea. And low
and tenderly should say, “Oh, my disciple,
lovest thou me?” To thee and me—What
would our answer be?

Response: If Jesus Christ is a man, and
only a man, I say that of all mankind, I
cleave to Him, and to Him will I cleave
alway. If Jesus Christ is a God, the only
God, I swear I will follow Him through

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

The program was interspersed with several

songs.
The special music was furnished by T. C.
Evans and P. B. Frye, who rendered a
xylophone and piano duet. The quartet sang
a very beautiful song, “Talk It Over With
Jesus.”

}ing was:

If you have a friend worth loving,
| him, yes, and let him know that you love him,
‘ere life’s evening fringe his brow with sun-
set glow. Why should good words ne’er be
said of a friend—till he is dead?

The vesper closed with the singing of

Five New Men Recently

ae loveth best his fellow man, is|heaven and hell, the earth, the sea and the Moriarty, Wall, Ghigo, Burgess and!
od the holiest way he can,” was the | air. .

topic of the “Y” service last Sunday eve- |
ning. The spirit of friendship ran all the | very fitting prayers and some appropriate |

Leathers Initiated Last
Wednesday Night

The Spanish Club held its regular
initiation ceremony Wednesday night at
|the Eumenean Literary Society Hall.
Besides holding the initiation, a feed was
given for the members.
were taken in, John Moriarty,

Steve

L. H. Leathers. Representing the fac-

love | ulty were Professors Fleagle, Blythe, and|

|Goldiere, In all, there were about 20
members present for the meeting.

| Prior to this, only one meeting has been
| held this year as the club has been prac-
| tically disbanded. A few weeks ago a

Five new. new |

| Spring Sports Hold Center of Student

|
|

|stage at Davidson. Baseball and track

| are well under way, while spring, footbali |

will continue for several weeks longer.
The minor sports, represented by tennis,
boxing, and rifle team, are also coming
in for a large share_of student interest,
!and it seems that much good work will
tbe done’ in these lines as well as in the
major activities of baseball and track.

Another very impressive responsive read- Wall, Francis Ghigo, A. F. Burgess, and | A goodly number of men have reported

for track, and preliminary exercises, with
the view of obtaining tip-top form, are
| being practiced daily. Captain Goody-
koontz is conducting practice until “Tex”
| Tilson is able to leave his spring-gridders.
| The return of John Currie, speed-demon,
|has added immeasurably to the chances

“Blest Be the Tie ThatyBinds,” which left |for a winner in track. The dashes will

meeting was held to arrange the order of |

the idea of friendship in the hearts and minds
| of all. |

REPORTERS ATTENTION!

Dr. Edwin F, Shewmake, profes-
sor of English at Davidson, will
speak to members of the editorial
staff and Reporter’s Club next
Monday night at 7 o'clock in the
Davidsonian office on the subject’
of “Good English in News Articles.”
This will be the first of a series of
addresses that will be made to as-
piring journalists of this campus
and all members of the two organi-
zations named are urged to be pres-
ent.

Selz Shoes, Adler

15 E. Trade St.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS

Complete line of High-
The Vogue -

THE SHOP FOR MEN

Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

Collegian Clothes
Grade Haberdashery

CHARLOTTE, N. C,

As
¢

Delivered same day

Lance Quality Products

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

made. All dealers

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
SeeUs “

26 28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

A FIVE BILLION DOLLAR LOSS IS NO JOKE!

Accidents are costing the United Statcs five billions each year
with 85,000 killed and 7,000,000 injured.

An Accident Policy is a vital need to every wage-earner.

It costs little to have this protec-
tion, nothing to ask about it.

INDEPENDFNCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McALISTER CARSON (°13) Mgr.

Drinks

In Statesville We Are Located .
TO SERVE YOU

Candy
Austin Candy

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

Shop

| will soon have their club as a model for

procedure and plans for the meeting held
last week, It was there decided to at-|
tempt to make the club take an active in- |
jterest in affairs pertainng to it and to!

|have a meeting every two weeks.

| As the one last week was really the first
| regular meeting the success with which
lit was carried out was very pleasing to
the club members. Each initiate was re-
quired to read a’paper written in Spanish
to.the regular members. The subjects
were “an Autobiography,” “Character of
the Spanish People,” “Spain’s Former
Greatness,” and “Spain of Today.” In
addition to this, the fifth neophyte
learned and_ recited a Spanish poem.
These subjects indicate the interest that
is being taken in everything concerning |
Spain, its people, art, and literature.

Tt has been decided upon by the club to
take up in each meeting articles of in-
terest which pertain to anything Spanish.
A comprehensive study will be made of
the great Spanish authors, their work |
and lives. Spanish music and art will
come under observation sometime during
the spring. This is proof of the interest
that the members are taking and they

all of this sort to pattern after. The
members in the faculty are taking a
great deal of time in working with them,
arousing interest, and aiding in all the
details, To obtain membership it is nec-
essary to be recommended by the faculty
members and these latter are taking care
to elect only those students who really
show an active interest in the Spanish
course. It is an added honor to the
initiates that they have been recom-
mended just as the requirements have be-
come more strict than ever before.

PROMINENT LAWYER TALKS |

(Continued from page 1)

a man to whom many opportunities would |
come, and a person whom people would love.” |
In preparing himself for this profession, |
the visitor advised each student to spend a |
summer in a lawyer’s office. In addition, he
suggested that they take courses in book-
keeping, typewriting and shorthand, in order
that they might be more skillfully prepared |

and ready for all emergencies. |
|

C. E. T. C. Holds
Weekly Meeting

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
met. last Sunday to discuss the topic,
“Christian Endeavor in Foreign Lands.”
Moye was ‘the leader of the meeting. -An
attempt was made to show how Christian
Endeavor does stretch all over the world.
R. C. Butler discussed the topic, Chris-
tian Endeavor in Egypt. R. I. Cromartie |
spoke on Christian Endeavor in the Vir-
gin forests of Brazil. These countries
are not very much discussed in mission-
ary groups and it was with pleasure that
these talks were heard. Then G. T, Preer
spoke on International and Interdenomi-
national Christian Endeavor, giving a
very interesting talk.

tries were touched on, the leader, Moye,
several times mentioning various ones.

The meeting was by all means a suc-
cess. Those who came got something
very well worth their time spent in at-
tending, and those who stayed away
missed a very good meeting.

There was algo the added enjoyment
of special music by Albright, Orr and

During the meeting several other coun-|

Fry.

be well cared -for by Captain Goody-
koontz and Currie. Most of the positions
are open to all comers, however, and
keen competition will
varsity berths.

Baseball will be in full swing now with
Coach Monk at the. helm, and every ef-
fort will be put forth to give the Red and
Black supporters a winning combinaton.
Good infield and outfield material is at
hand, but the batteries will supply a
problem. Wells, Poole, Meadows, Hamp-
ton, and Oden are the prospects for the
hurling corps while a varsity catcher has
yet to be discovered. Ramsey, of casi
year’s fresh nine, Lacy Hunt and Black,
appear to be the best bets so far. The
diamond is in fine shape, as a result cf
extensive scraping and reconditioning.

The ideal spring weather of recent days
has caused nearly every man on the hill
to turn out for some sort of exercise, and
Davidson is fortunate in being able to
offer such a wide varviety of sports. Golf,
tennis, track, baseball, boxing, and foot-
ball are all under way, and it seenss that
this spring will witness a great period of
Davidson athletics.

ARMY OFFICIALS HERE

(Continued from page 1)

The third part of the inspection is called
“Efficiency of Practical” and is rated at 43
per cent, and like the other two is again di-
vided into several heads. They are organi-
zation instruction so as to obtain the maxi-
mum benefit from the R. O. T. C., the
appearance, discipline, courtesy and formal
ceremonies, the practical test in command
and leadership, the physical training and the
physical condition, and a test of the students
in subjects prescribed for their respective

| courses,

Last year Davidson won the honor of a
distinguished rating and consequently this
year has the right*to wear the small blue
stars just above the insignia on the sleeve.

take place for |

_ Body Attention During Present Season
Spring sports hold the center of the SOUTHERN STUDENTS CONFER

(Continued from page 1)

| sity of South Carolina. At 10:30 a round
| table discussion on/ the subject; “The Secre-
|tariat of the League of Nations,” was held,

under the direction of Dr. P. S. Flippin,
Dean of the Graduate School and Professor
of History at Mercer University.

After dinner, another address on the sub-
ject, “Foreign Relations of the U. S.,” was
given by Prof. E. H. Henderson, of Furman
University. “The rest of the afternoon was
taken up by a joint meeting of all the dele-
gates with Miss Heminway Jones, National
Secretary of the International Relations
Club. Many things of interest to the club
were brought up and fully discussed. At
7:00 o'clock that evening, the delegates and
speakers were given an informal dinner by
Emory University, at the Emory dining*hall.
After dinner, another speech, “Prospects for
Further Consolidation in Europe for 1927,”

'was made, by Mr. Huntington Gilchrist, at

the Theology Chapel.

Saturday morning the program consisted
of an address, “The English Speaking Peo-
ple—Will They Fail in Their Missigfi to the
World?”, by Bishop Wilbur P. Thurkield,
at Agnes Scott Chapel, a round table discus-
sion, and a business meeting and summary of
the Conference by Prof. E. H. Henderson.
The Conference was adjourned after the
summary by Professor Henderson, at noon
Saturday.

PEACE. INSTITUTE SOLICITS
FUNDS HERE

(Continued from page 1)

structure and design as well as being of great
beauty and artistry.

It has been asked that certain ones be ap-
pointed at Davidson, in the different classes,
to look after the raising of money on this
campus and the men are being asked to re-
spond to this cause, not only because of its
worth, but also because of the splendid way
in which Peace students contributed to the
building fund of Davidson following the
burning of Old Chambers.

FOR THAT TASTE OF

Home Cooking On Your
Way Home

New York Cafe

29 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

ll ~~
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Ss —————

A

SHOWING

complete range of Spring nus

Shoes; Hats and Accessorie’

Tues., March 8

AT HENDERSON’S JEWELRY STORE

SEE THE NEW BRAEBURNS

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

