THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Graduates of Davidson

Publish Two New Books

“God’s World and Word” and “King
‘ John” Gain Much Favorable
Comment

Personal

W. M. Gracey, '25, is now at his home
at Covington, Tenn., being located for
several months at Rock Hill, S. C.
Gracey is planning to enter Union The-

Two Davidson alumni have recently ological Seminary at Richmond, Va., next

written books that have gained consider- fall.
able comment. Rev. Neal L. Anderson, S ae ; : 5: :
D.D., ’85, of Savannah, Ga., has combined | W. H. Fitts, '26, is with the United

a series of addresses into a book entitled, | Fruit Company in South America. His
“God’s World and Word.” which has! address is care United Fruit Co., Rio Fri

brought forth an avalanche of favorable | District, Santa Marta, Republic of Co-
! ~~ A + : - ,
comment. The first address is entitled, !!¢™bia, South America. This makes two

Alumni of New York to
Convene on March 11th

Associations Scattered Over Twelve
Hundred Miles of Country

News was received at Davidson Mon-
day afternoon that the New York Alum-
ni Association of Davidson College has
scheduled a meeting for that organiza-
tion, to be held March t1th, inviting any
officials of the college in that section on)
that date to attend. There are. approxi-
mately 35 Davidson men in New York,at
the present time, according to the Alumni

| successfully, making the number of won and

‘WILDCATS TAKE FINAL Gah

ALUMNI NEWS

(Continued from page 1) |
fouls, having a total of 11 as compared to]
nine checked against the Wildcats. The |
Wildcats made eight of their tries good, }
while the visitors made only four of their
free tries count. t

This game marked the closing of the sea-
son for both teams. Up to this game, the
Wildcat quintet had broken even in the num-
ber of games won and lost this season. This |
win put the team over the half-way mark |

lost ten and nine respectively.
The line-up was as follows:

RE-EXAMS

During the spring holidays, re-
examinations will be held for those
who failed,on subjects in the fall
term. They will begin on Friday,
April 15th, and only those who
made within ten points of the pass-
ing grade will be allowed to stand
the re-exams. Not more than one
may be taken at this time; others
may be stood either the first week
of June or the first week of Sep-
tember. The fee for each subject is
$2.50.

“God and His Wonder World,” which is members of the class of 1926 who are in
the same one he delivered before the Y.
M. C. A. during the commencement of
1925.

Rev. George F. Robertson, D.D., '78, who
has been supplying the pastorate at
Hickory, N. C., but is now at his home at
Lowell, N. C., has written “King John, a
Tale of the South,” which is a portrayal
of a negro character, containing many
quaint sayings. Prior to that he publish-
ed “The Only Nancy,” a novel, which had
a wide circulation.

Dr. Anderson’s book consists of twelve
“Addresses for Today” in which he
speaks to earnest-minded men and
women on the contemporary problems of
the retigious life—problems that confront
the intellect, the heart, and the conduct
of everyday life. “In this book, he is not
questioning the infallibility of the
Scriptures, but s seeking to make clear
their function in pointing not to them-
selves but to Christ as the Object and
basis of faith. The author’shows him-
self to be a conservative without being |
a reactionary. He is modern without be-
ing a “modernist.”

Dr. Robertson’s story “is bright, at-
trative, and holds the interests of the
reader from beginning to end. But the
greatest value of the book lies along two
other lines. It is a splendid delineation
of negro character, as many of us have
seen and know it here in the South. In
portraying the negro he has presented a
wealth of the quaint and striking expres-
sions of the race. He gives a sketch of
the church that“is big enough in soul to
be willing to give its members toward
the organization of other churches and
the growth of .the Kingdom is most re-
freshing.”

Davidson Alumni in
Insurance Business

Davidson College graduates, particular-
ly of the classes of the last few years, are
going into the insurance business in large
numbers, as revealed by the fact that 11
students are with the Aetna Life Insur-
ance Company. These eleven men rep-
resent six different classes and at present
are scattered over a territory that in-
cludes six states.

The men, classes, and Ipcation at. the
present time follow:

Columbia, S. C—G. B. Sorrells, ’23;
J. Allison, ’25; E. M. Hines, ’24, and H.
Covington, ’24.

Charlotte, N. C—S. B. Woods, ’14; R.
U. Woods, ’23, and A. C. McIntyre, ’25.

Pittsburgh, Pa—W. B. Thomas, ’10.

Baltimore, Md.—P. O. Bethea, ’22.

Oklahoma City, Okla—M. D. Thomas-
son, ’25.

Little Rock, Ark.—C. M. Streibich, '23.

O.
O.

JUNIOR ORATORICALS

After a vote taken by the en-
trants in the Junior Oratorical
Contest, Chairman Tyree Dillard
has anounced that it has been de-
cided to postpone the date for this
event from February 22 to a day in
the middle of March. No definite
date has been.announced for the
event, but it is sure to be held in
the middle of March.

There are only six men’ entered
in the meet so far, and the chair-
man is very anxious, to have more
participants. The men who have
entered are very able speakers, and
since many of them have had ex-
perience on various debating teams,
a good program is assured.

foreign countries, A. C. Lindley being in
Smyrna, Turkey, with the American To-
bacco Company of the Orient.

Secretary's files. Others are located
there and are not listed, so he has asked
The Davidsonian to request members of
Saeed the student body to furnish him the names
C. Murray, Jr., ’14, who has| of Davidson men in New York within the
Mexico for some time is now! next day or two in order that all of them
located at Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexi-| will have an invitation to attend.
co.

Rev. E.
been in

The New York association has been in!
for some time. According to

; ; | the last information received Dr. Wil-
from Rev. A. R. Hassell, 06, who is at) tiam Mack, ’82, was presidént, but an)

Tokushima, Japan. Rev. C. R. Jenkins, | election has been held since that time. |
17, is also at that point. “Jenkins and I| pya
are the only Davidson alumni. in ‘Tokushi-

ne : existence
The Alumni Secretary has also heard

‘Secretary wrote several days ago in
|regard to a meeting and for a new list

aes pany, ¥ : F
ma, so you see the ‘T okushima D. C.! of the officers, but had not obtained them
Alumni Association is 100 per cent} \fonday night

strong,” wrote Mr. Hassell. :

Davidson College now has associations
scattered over a length of 1,200 miles, and
a breadth of approximately 700 miles, ex- |
tending from New York to Thomasville, |

het ; ; ¢ )Ga., and from Wilmington, N. C., to Louis-
EK. E. Boushee, '24, was married recent- | :
“ Other distant

ly"to Miss Margaret Beale, at Wilming- yy

va r Liss Margaret eale, at W ilming pected to be organized within the next
ton, N.C. They will be located in that j rial

A ss | few Baltimore, Md., Phila-
city, the home of Mr. Boushee. The lat- | fee e ; ‘|
t Re itcl monnenien ball delphia, Pa., and Richmond, Va, Alumni;
Sel Gd Dace edo Les San Coe in Washington, D. C., will be included in}

team two years ago. | ; ;
: 8 jthe Baltimore meeting. |

R. M. Calhoun, ’20, is now at Laurel,

Hill, N. C.

> eo ee ee ee

ville, Ky. association ex-

months are

M. Shaw, ’12, who was formerly |

W.
Sau i‘ Wilmington, is now at Atkin- T ast of Speakers |

oa ea a "a a >

\
)
}

Friends will regret to learn that the O Lif W k H |
father of C. M. Clarke, ’24, and R. R.| n ye or ere
Clarke, '19, died suddenly recently. The| ee
father of Rev. R.°S. Ekridge, ’o7, also) The fifth and last of the series of vo-
died recently after a long and useful life.| cational talks, which have been made each

es | Wednesday night for the four

Rev. Dwight Chalmers, pastor at} weeks, will be delivered, according to|
Greensboro, has recently been ill with in- | custom, Wednesday night at 7:30 in|
fluenza, but has recovered and is now) Shearer Hall. The subject of the talk will
filling his pulpit regularly. |be on the general field of business, but)

past

’22

—_—— las this topic covers such a large scope,

Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, who spent! the Y. M. C. A. is trying to geta professor |
several months in Davidson on his leave|of the business college of some large uni-|
of absence from the foreign field, is now) versity, or some successful big business |
at Princeton University, his address be-| man to present the profession, and to
ing Apartment A-3, 38 Alexander St. give the main principles of business in an

Sere olermemys moe | inspiring address,
W. T. Elliott, '23, is now practicing law

a ¢ : r wATARAL |
in Columbia, S. C., and teaching at the): aA PAAR AR Of the pian of the Voca |
Uni ; | tional Guidance Institute will be made by |

Jniversity there. he “Y" duri ae : 1 ti
Davidson College has two alumni teach- ous OUTED Rte RE RUTe TBA! DLO Stn

we euiry ett tac 5 | to be held on the first of April, and to be}
ene ate Poon) there; | conducted by Rev. E. G. Gammon, pastor |
Davidson College has two alumni teach-, of the First Presbyterian Church, 6f Sel-|
ing in Chicora College at Columbia, S. Gs ma, Ala. Uae aie
S. D. Smith, ’12, and F. C. Thames, ’23. The talks which have been made so)
if 02 Kimbrough, ’26, is attending the| far under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A.|
University of Kentucky, at Lexington. j are as follows: Medicine, Dr. J. M. Nor-
: | thington; Teaching, Dr. M. C. S. Noble ;|
| Law, Hon. E. R. Preston; and Ministry, |
|Dr. A. S. Johnson. These talks were all
y | very interesting and have helped quite a}
c ean atc ae fae few of the students in deciding upon their |
ony . olunteer | ,.
Movement of North Carolina was held hte Ons:
at Elon Colege. Five Davidson delegates, | The Y. M. C. A. has procured Cees
W. B. Rice, W. K. Forbes, J. M. An-| logues from almost every college, uni-
drews, G, F, Houck, R. -€*Butler, ey G,| versity, and business college throughout
A. Fry, attended this meeting. Prob-| the country for the benefit of those stu-
lems of the present day which it is felt| dents who are considering going to some
that, we, the younger generation must | advanced scueol: Everybody is welcomed
deal with, were discussed. There were |‘ Sate My sae Y” at any time and look
several girl delegations present, adding |°V"T t ese catalogues,
life to the whole convention. |
The speakers at this convention were |
largely officers in the Student Volunteer |
Movement, that nation-wide band of} :
boys and girls who have devoted their | (Continued from page 1)
lives to Christ on the foreign field. Dr.| week. The Converse College Dramatic Club
Soper, a leading educator of Duke Uni- | may also come to Davidson during the latter
versity, Mrs. Turner, of the Georgia | part of March in a series of one-act plays.
Synodical, and Mr. J. R. Wilson, the as-| This organization has won wide applause
sociate secretary of the Student Volun-| throughout South Carolina this’ year, and
teer Movement, were some of the| will bring a well rounded act to Davidson.

speakers.

VOLUNTEER BAND MEETS

THIRD YEAR MEN VOTE

The Junior Speaking preliminaries which

Colgan.
Brewton,

Duke:

Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

Professor Pipe’s popular
illustrated lecture...

Davidson. Position. Duke.
Anderson: (19) -ese cesses oe cccevee Butler | /f
RF
eae Fresh Country Vegetables
Calhoin C/): secssene eoscte see Rowe (3)
Wil (9) ms Kelly (10) STABLE AND FANCY
(l80ti- (9): ccccseeeteewea ceed elly
eure GROCERIES
Thee) (A) ee a Bennett (7) Fellows, see us for replenishing
RG your Fraternity House larders
Fiatrison: (7): scctessecaucce Weaver (12) ;
| LG BARNETT AND COMPANY
Substitutions—Davidson: Hudgins; Mce-

Candler (10), Carruthers, | DAVIDSON, N. C.

= ss =

You can learn far more about ToBAcco
from old Prof. Pipe, than you'll get by
studying every treatise ever written on it.
For Prof. Pipe is the world’s most eminent
authority on the subject... He knows
tobacco from plant to pipe!

Experiments with every known species
have convinced the Prof. that the one
perfect pipe tobacco is Granger Rough
Cut. ..He points out reasons for this
conclusion: (Gc) the Granger-grade Burley,
the choicest tobacco grown; (R) the Re-dis
covery of Wellman’s mellowing method;
and (c) the Cut of the large slow-burning

Prof. Pipe proves Granger, by practical
demonstration— shows how it acts under
fire... You never saw tobacco burn so
slow, never tasted such cool, mild mellow-
ness! The first pipeful is a liberal education!
You'll put your q. £. p. and capital 0. k. on
G.R.C...and all your pipe problems will
be solved. . . forever! :

GRANGER

ROUGH CUT

ss SS SS SS SS SS SS SS ES SS SSS SSS SS SSS SSE EE CE CSE SCSES SSS SS SESS SES ES SSS

The half-pound vac- i]
uum tin is forty-five |
oe ae OF ;
ge, in HG |.
Bes Soa GRANGER | I: '

The meeting of the Davidson Student
Volunteer Movement last Sunday was in
charge of the president, J. A. McAlpine.
The program, was largely a report of
the delegates to the convention. All of
them reported having had a fine meeting
and all five gave very good reports on
the convention.

were to have been held on February 22nd
have been postponed until the middle of this
month in order that the entrants may have
more time to prepare their orations. The
definite date has not yet been set, but will be'
announced by Tyree Dillard, chairman of the
oratorical committee, during the coming

il

week, |. 2 a ya > SS SS SS SS SS |
. Se =

for pipes only! Uy

4 Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company p

Semen ¢,
ae =s. =
