THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER §&, 1927

Football Fans Pick
Popular All-State

Jack McDowall, of State, and Jan Jankos-
ki, of Duke, ran a very close race for top-
notchers in the balloting of fans for the
mythical all-state teams conducted by the
Raleigh News and Observer. Each of these
much-acclaimed “ball tossers” was mention-
ed. 250 times out of a possible 257, yet Jack
was placed on five more first teams than Jan
and was victor with 498 as compared with
Jan’s 493.

In this contest 86 players were mentioned,
a total of 5,656 nominations being received.
Jack was victorious by virtue of the 248
.first team selections and two on second place
aggregations, while Jan received mention on
243 first teams and seven second teams.

‘Much interest was manifest in this selec-
tion, although many waited until the eleventh
hour to send in their ballots and according
to the rules of this contest were too laté-to
be counted. Two aggregations are selected
on the-basis of crediting players with two
points for each first place and one point for
the second places gained.

In this selection some well balanced teams
were represented as shown by the close
scores. Next to McDowall and Jankoski in
the backfield, Tom Young, of Carolina, was
picked for 187 firsts and 75 séconds. Sam
Buie, who made several nice runs against the
Wildcats in the Turkey Day game, led the
field with a great margin and a total of 276
votes to receive a total of 376 votes to re-
ceive fourth place in backfield. Dick Grey
was the only Davidson player mentioned in
the selections, garnering 182 votes, which
easily placed him in the second string squad.
Childress, of State, easily led the State ends
' with 239 first and 10 second places, making
a total of 488, leading Sapp, of Carolina, by
68 votes, while Jordan and Goodwin, both of
State, held down the wingman positions on
the second aggregation. For tackle, Jack

Phelps, Wake Forest’s only candidate on the |’
second squad, easily took his place with 414!

against the 369 garnered by Thomas, of
Duke. Schwartz was picked for. the pivot
position by a majority of the fans,cand re-
ceived 4,640 votes.

Fans often juggled guards and_ tackles
and shifted centers to guard positions as ac-
companying notes explained the belief of the
fan that this particular man deserved a
place.

Although Davidson received no place on
the first aggregation, she should feel proud
of the numbér of mentions which went to
members of the Wildcat machine. Those
Davidson players who received more than
10 votes are: Arrowood 103, Melton 46,
Laws 12, McColgan 12, Grey 182, and Wil-
son 18 Other players with less than 10
votes are, Nibet, Harrison, Jim Grey, Mc-
Connell, Hampton and Baker.

Why Not Handle a Woman Electrically?

If she is willing to come half way—Meter.

If she will come all the way—Receiver.

If she wants to go still further—Dispatch-
er,

If she gets too excited—Controller.

If she talks too long—Interrupter.

If her way of thinking is not yours—Con-
verter,

If she picks your pockets—Detector.
If she sings badly—Tuner.

If she wants candy—Feeder.

If she gossips too much—Regulator.
If she is wrong—Rectifier.

=

Five Years Ago

Five years ago, Davidson’s Wildcat
Warriors played a colorful and thrilling
game with the Purple Hurricane of Fur-
man at Greenville, in their annual Tur-
key Day contest. Furman succeeded in
wresting an apparent victory of 13-10
from the Wildcats.

It was a great and wonderful battle,
and the Wildcats, playing in Furman’s
backyard, were not out-classed by any
means, The Wildcats, doped to lose by
a small margin, matched the Furman
gains yard by yard, and excelled in all
parts of the game except in line plunging
and the run-back of kicks. Displaying
a powerful running attack, the Davidson
backs swept around the purple flanks for
long gains. The lone touchdown, for the
Wildcats was madg¢ shortly after the open-
ing of the second half, when Hendrix,
quarterback for Davidson, received a
punt on his own thirty-yard line. In three
plays, the fighting Wildcats carried the
ball down the field seventy yards for a
touchdown.

The touchdowns for Furman were made
by Dempsey, fullback; and Poteat, left-
back. Davidson’s touchdown was made
by C. M. Davis, leftend. At the last few
minutes of the game, the Wildcats un-
loosed a bewildering end-running and
forward-passing attack, which carried
the ball into Furman’s territory as the
final whistle blew. The/line-plunging of
Poteat and Dempsey was the main fea-
ture of the Baptist offense.

The game was played before a small
holiday crowd, which expected an easy
victory for Furman.

*

FRATS SHOW FAVOR

(Continued from page 1)

of the large national fraternities to establish
chapters at Davidson. It was also pointed
out from this viewpoint that the. national
councils of the fraternities are composed of
men with high moral standing, and that they
are heartily in favor of the chapter owning
their own home, for, in their opinion, it will
help to create a greater pride for his fra-
ternity in the individual and make him more
zealous in living so as to reflect credit on his
chapter.

From the standpoint of the chapters at
Davidson the members stated that a house
in the charge of some fine Christian woman,
agreeable to the trustees, made a_ safer,
cleaner house for young men in the college,
and would give them a more home-like sur-
rounding. ;

Another point brought out for the approval
of the board of trustees was for the college
to build halls on the campus for the fra-
ternities, national or local, that did not feel
that they were able to support a house at
that time, until they were able to find a house
in the city suitable to the board of trustees,
but practically all of the fraternities were
heartily in favor of allowing the various
chapters to acquire property, and to build
thereon, in the city.

Several of the young people who attend
out-of-town schools were at home for the
Thanksgiving holidays.

Head of an Open Forum article in the
“Cardinal and Cream,” Union University’s
(Jackson, Tenn.) weekly paper:
“Prominent Student Expresses Himself

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM

Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

| ad be Column

The speaker at Y this Sunday willbe
Morgan Blake, sports editor of the At-
lanta Journal and one of the greatest
sports writers in the South. After finish-
ing his college career, Mr. Blake ex-
perienced a sort of relapse of interest in
life and he felt for a time that his life was
not worth very much. . But soon he was
converted and quickly became one of the
leading church members in Atlanta. He
is well-known for his active work among
young men, and is also the teacher of a
large Bible class, being very active in
every phase of church work. All in all,
he is a great worker for the Master, and
will be most interesting to hear. Don't
let this opportunity slip by you.

Shearer at 6:15
Rial Ae
The deputation that went to Hickory to
help with the Older Boys Conference re-
ports a very interesting series of meet-
ings. The deputation consisted of John
Melton, Rut Nefinan, Raymond Lake,
Murray Christian, Bob: Covington, Mon-
roe Gilmour and Bill Weaver. The depu-
tation was in-charge of the discussion
groups at the conference, and was. in-
timately connected with the meetings as
a whole, and in that way was able to
meet the boys more readily and thus

make the group discussions more val-
uable.

——Y—_.

The Y is at this time starting its cam-
paign in support of the Banner Elk School,
which is a most worthy project: The
Y feels that it will be aiding a great
work in this way and asks the aid and
support of the student body, small though
the gift may be. -Sacrifice just a little
and you will be helping one of the most
admirable causes in the*South.

PREG 00,

The collection of old clothes for Cross-
nore School will be made soon, This too
is a fine institution and deserves our aid
in this way. Give something when you
are asked to do so. '

niet WY satu

A deputation was sent to Concord on
Tuesday night, consisting of a quartet
and a speaker. Witt Hancock spoke on
this trip, which included a banquet at
which were both the Hi-Y boys and girls
of Concord.

Dormitories Will
Have Improvements

The picture problem has been solved. Due
to the earnest efforts of Mrs. Smith, super-
visor of the dormitories, attractive picture
moldings are being placed in the rooms.

The molding is one of pine wood, stained
a dark color, and they add much to the
attractiveness of the rooms. The workmen
are expected to finish East in the next week,
and West will probably be ‘completed during
the Christmas vacation.: °

The ‘students have been prevented from
hanging heavy pictures in their rooms, but
the molding will relieve this situation. Mrs.
Smith is to be congratulated for her efforts
in this matter.

Philanthropic

At the meting of Phi Society, which was
held on last Thursday night, the regular
routine of order was set aside in order that
the members might enter into a discussion
of the present condition of literary societies
at Davidson and that members might sug-
gest some plan of action that would lead to
a revival of interest in the Phi Society.

The discussion was open and most of the
members made short talks in-which sugges-

_|tions were offered that if adopted would be

of aid to them.

A query for the next meeting was voted
on and approved. The resolution passed
was that a special debate be held at the next
meeting, the query being the same one the
varsity is to use this year. It was also de-
cided to invite all varsity debaters to attend
this meeting. This was followed by a mo-

j {tion for adjournment.

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
 SeeUs |
28 28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

Maxwell Chambers Hotel

“The best board on .
the Hill”

A trial is all we ask
" Student managers
D. A. CURRIE J. W. MELTON

*

Exchanges

“The Orange and Blue” of Carson-
Newman joyfully proclaims the unani-
mous election of ‘the little Baptist college
to the Southern Association of Colleges
and Secondary Schools. Thus will this
well-desetving institution, situated in Jef-
fersori City, Tenn., take its place as an
accredited A-grade college alongside the
many other greater schools of the South-
land which claim membership in the as-
sociation, this membership based on ac-
curate surveys as to physical plant, en-
dowment, scholarship of. teaching per-
sonnel and physical equipment of labor-

atories.  ~ t a
,

Of much interest to Davidson students
and alumni will be the report of the for-
mer President Woodrow Wilson’s schol-
astic grades covering his stay at our
college. Three grade are taken from
Vol 1 of The Life and Letters of Wood-
row Wilson, by Ray Stanard Baker, and
are revealed to us through the medium of
Carson-Newman’s college newspaper.

“The original records of Davidson of
the term ending December 22, 1873, show
that ‘T. W. Wilson’ had the following
standing:

Logic and Rhetoric 95, Greek 87, Latin
90, Mathematic 74, Composition 96, Decla-
mation 92, Deport 100.”

A new athletic field for Roanoke Col-
lege’ (Virginia) is rapidly nearing com-
pletion. A quarter-mile cinder track will
encompass the football gridiron. Roa-
noke’s loyal alumni are a major factor in
this new expansion and project of de-
velopment.

A student takes issue in the editorial
columns of Roanoke’s “Brackety-Ack”
with those “higher-ups” who appear em-
phatic about the notices appearing on
the bulletin board of the Administration

Building, requesting the painting of the.

front columns and clamoring for better
food, as evidences of disrespect to the
college administration an das a rather
undignified method of showing disap-
proval of authority. Incidentally, work
soon started on these needed repairs. He
commends the attempts of the student
body in giving its opinion of the way af-
fairs of the school are managed. ‘, Indeed,
students with the courage of their con-
victions must thrive in Virginia!

It seems from “The Tar Heel” that
Carolina’s student body is contemplating
changing the student government of the
University. The advisability of holding
a constitutional convention during the
winter quarter is recommended lest ir-

reparable damage to the student govern-}

Tennis Courts Will

ment be rendered, A good idea, a mighty
fine one, for such a step demands all con-
sideration and discussion possible.

“The Richmond Collegian” announces in
bold-face type when letter men of the
University are to be initiated. Certainly
such an announcement through the col-
umns of “The Davidsonian” would not be
a bad idea here.

“The Blue Stocking” gives the récent
results of P. C.’s superlative contest. We
may be misinformed, but we thought
that as a general rule only female col-
leges sponsored such things. But again,
P. C. may have its reasons for being an
exception.

“New Rules” (the contents of which
we are not informed), after experiencing
a trial period at Guilford College, are
acclaimed as highly successful and point
to the evolution of a united and effective
government for the students.

In the Open Forum of “The Hi-Po” of
High Point College appears an article de-
crying the disrespect shown by some few
individuals, in the form of scraping of
the feets, etc., at public programs. We

‘| sincerely hope the letter has desired re-

sults, for it is still within the memory of
some of us the fact that such objection-
able practices existed at public exercises
and, in particular, were evidenced to-
ward faculty members during their dis-
courses to the students during chapel
period. But thanks to the morale of Da-
vidson students now, those undesirable
features, having been severely censored,
are a thing of the past.

’ - :
_ The Thelemite Club met with Mrs, W. Ix

on Hell.” Is it such a rare occurrence
out there that the means of the college
paper is used for such expression?

“The Sun Dial’ of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College clamors for more musi-
cal appreciation. Send them some male
glee clubs, we say; their appreciation will
then surely be revived and increased,

“The Crimson-White” of the University
of Alabama proclaims the advent of barn-
yard golf. And we thought those stu-
dents were football enthusisats only!

CLEMSON FILLS FLORIDA

(Continued from page 1)
plays here, followed by Wofford on the 13th,
also on Richardson Field.

Leaving home for a while, the team will
play Citadel, in Charleston, S. C., October
20th, and Wake Forest at Charlotte on the
27th. November 3rd takes the Wildcats to
Lexington, Va., for the annual battle with
the Flying Squadron of V. M. I., and fol-
lowing this game, they meet N. C. State
College on November 10th, probably at
Greensboro, although the place has not been
definitely decided as yet.

The two remaining games on the calendar
are those with the University of North
Carolina and Duke University, the: former
being played on November 17th, at Davidson,
and the latter on Thanksgiving Day, at
Durham.

The games as arranged at present, will be
easier for the student body to attend than
before, as four contests will be on Richard-
son Field, and one in Charlotte, with the
others within a comparatively short distance
from Davidson.

It will be noticed that the schedule has
been arranged very much as last season’s
as regards the meeting of other state teams.
V. M. I. follows the Wake Forest game,
providing the only break in the state schedule,
as State, Carolina and Duke follow directly
on the heels of this battle.

Teams from various’ parts of the country
offered to sign contracts with Davidson for
next season, but due to one obstacle or an-
other, they were refused. Among these of-
fers were: Washington and Lee, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, United States Military
Academy, Furman, Mercer, Hampden-Sid-
ney, and Center College. Florida was not
signed again, but it was intimated that rela-
tions would probably be renewed in 1929.

The schedule follows: i

Seut. 22—Guilford, here.

Sept. 29—Clemson, place undecided.

Oct. 6—Elon, here.

Oct. 13—Wofford, here.

Oct. 20—Citadel, at Charleston, S. C.

Oct. 27—Wake Forest, at Charlotte.

Nov. 3—V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.

Nov. 10—N. C. State, place undecided.

Nov: 17—U.-N. C., here.

Nov. 29—Duke, at Durham.

Be Completed Soon

Work on the new tennis courts has been
going on diligently for the past month, There
have been two men working on the courts,
scraping them and putting on the last touches
before winter. The courts are situated be-
low the Dormitory road on the north side of
the athletic field. There is a good foundation
for the courts and there should be room for
about ten courts when everything is com-
pleted. Hobart is very eager to finish them as
soon as possible and hopes that they will be
finished by spring.

The recent sleet delayed the work on the
tennis courts somewhat, and the work will
probably have to be postponed until the
spring. In the early spring, the ground will
be ready for the finishing touches—that is,
the rolling and the clay-patching. A light
layer of sand will probably. have to be put
on the surface of the court, and, in propor-
tion to its cost, this is the best method, be-
cause the sand makes it dry quicker after a
hard rain,

The old courts south of the Chambers
building will probably be torn up to form a
part of the lawn.

E. H. Mauze, ’23, who is with the Pied-
mont Finance Co., has been transferred
from the Greensboro office to the New
York address, Whitehall Bldg., 17 Bat-
tery Place.

{ a

C. R. Vance ’21, is at 401 Jefferson Bldg.,
Greensboro; J. C. Calhoun, ’18, at Dolly
Madison Apts., Greensboro; O, P. Mat-
thews, '25, at Goldsboro; C. C. Garret,
'23, at 32 53rd St, New York, |N. Y., and

E. C. Momaw, ’25, at 1218 Maple Ave., S.
W., Roanoke; Va.
