THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927 . 5

Old Friend of Davidson |

| ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS

Mixed in with the freshmen and the
faculty of Davidson at the freshman re-
ception given by the Y. M. C. A. Monday

Interesting Facts Concerning Freshman

Class Comes From Office of Registrar

CoE ATTA oe 7 |
Complete reports coming from the office

of F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the col-
lege, reveal the fact that 211 Freshmen have
been matriculated for the 1926-27 session.

Of this number the science courses claim |

the larger part. There are 124 men seeking
Bachelor of Science degrees, while 82 will
work for Bachelor of Arts degrees.

It is found that of the 211 Freshmen, 110
are supporting themselves either entirely or

partially, and that at least a score more plan |

to find employment at the earliest possible
time. This class, then, is shown to have a

| Three men were nominated:

Frank Brown Wins
Sophomore Office

Last Monday morning at a meeting of the
Sophomore class,
elected to the office of Secretary-Treasurer.
E. F. Heifner,
Frontis Johnston, and Frank R. Brown, the
ballot resulting in Brown’s election.

At the election of the rising Sophomore

| class last spring, W. O. Dobbins was elected

greater percentage of self-supporting stu- |

dents than any other class that has enrolled, .. ‘
| this year, another election was necessary to

| fill the vacant office.

for some years past.

A great many of the remaining members
of the body are being aided by loans’ from
various student loan funds.
to be repayed when the students have been
graduated from college.

These sums are |

In the group of 110 self- “aupoorting stu-

dents is included the class tone co-ed, who is
entirely independent of help.

|

Secretary-Treasurer. Because of the failure
of Dobbins to return to Davidson to school

The Sophomore class
officers are: Carl Pritchett, pesident; Tom
Brohard, vice-president, and Frank Brown,
secretary- treasurer.

This being the first class meeting of the
year, no other business was taken up other |
than ¢he election of the secretary-treasurer,

| but the class has many things planned which |

Frank Reid Brown was |

Colonel Rowell Transferred to
Vancouver, Wash., for Service

of the Fourth Corps Area, has been trans- |
ferred to Vancouver, Washington, to com-
mand the Seventh Infantry. Colonel Rowell
during the past has been a great friend of
Davidson. At the summer camps he would
point out the Davidson men as examples to
the others and a fine example of how the
men should support the R. O. T. C. unit.
Only the last two years Colonel Rowell has
| been largely responsible for the “D. C.”
|award that this unit‘won. He first recom-
mended that Davidson College’s R.O. ‘T.-C.
unit be inspected by the War Department in-
spectors and secondly gave the officers in
charge here constructive criticism and much
information concerning the nature of the in-
spection.

| Colonel Rowell was probably the greatest
friend to the R. O. T. C. unit here and about
| this distinguished officer the students should

A review of the vocations chosen by the will be taken up and acted upon at a meeting | know something. At the age of 18 he was,

Freshmen shows that the largest number |i" the near future.
Class banquet and the completion 6f a few

wish to be doctors or surgeons. This pro-
fession will claim 38 of the class. The min-
istry and business have the next largest fol-
lowing, with 26 each; three others have
chosen lives as foreign missionaries.

Fifteen members are training for the bar.
Eleven are expecting to teach when they are
graduated.

Nine of the class are planning to be engi-
neers ; two will be architects, and each of the
following professions has at least one or
more aspirants: Forestry, chemical research,
accounting, journalism, navigation, farming,
dentistry, banking and bookkeeping.

One wishes to enter into a career as a’
naturalist and another as an author, tor

The remaining 65 Freshmen have made no
definite choice as to life work, but past ex-
perience shows that a greater part of these
will enter business.

Although Davidson is primarily a Presby-
terian institution, the new Freshman class
has, together with 159 Presbyterians, repre-
sentatives of virtually all Protestant denomi-
nations. The Methodists lead among the
other denominations with 25 adherents, while

the Baptists have 12, There are also mem-.

bers of the Episcopal, Hebrew, Christian,
Friends, and Associate Reformed Churches.
Only six students out of 211-are not affili-
ated with any church.

Davidson has within her doors this year
Freshmen from 18 states and two foreign
countries. North Carolina has 133 men en-
rolled. South Carolina and Georgia each
have 15 sons here.

The following is the tabulation for the
other states: Virginia, 8; West Virginia, 7;
Tennessee, 6; Florida, 5; Kentucky and Ala-
bama, 4 each. The remaining states repre-
sented are: Mississippi, Missouri, Louisiana,
Pennsylvania, Texas, Arkansas, Ohio, Con-
necticut, and the District of Columbia. The

two foreign students are from Korea and
Cuba.

The average age of the Davidson Fresh-

——aHen this year is 17, but one is 27 years of

age; two others are 25, but three have just
passed their 15th bithdays.

The solitary co-ed, with typical womanli-
ness, declined to divulge her age.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR

(Continued from page 1)
moral earnestness. Whatever a man might
be, if-there is a lack of moral earnestness,
there is a lack of character. A man might
not succeed in all of his attempts, but if he
has moral earnestness behind the undertak-
ing, the man will be the more respected for
it. The last thing is the lack of spiritual
power. No doubt, the speaker said, every
man on the campus was a member of some

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

—-

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N.C.

The annual Sophomore |

matters carried over from last year are some
of the things to be discussed by the class.
In connection with the “Quips.and Cranks”
a class historian will have to be elected, but
this will probably not be done until late in the
fall of the year.

Town News

W. A. Christian, one of the outstanding
men of the class of 1927, spent the week-end
int Davidson. During the past four years
“Bill” has participated in many student ac-

tivities, one of his many honors having been |
He was

the presidency of the Y. M. C. A.
also a member of Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity,
having received this honor last year. It is
with great regret that we see “Bill” leave,

but we wish him all success in his work at}

Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

Quite a few of the young ladies of David-
son will be leaving for school in the next few
days, some2 of them in this state, others
farther afleld. Among these are: “The
Misses Charlotte Hunter, and Adele Ar-
buckle, who will attend Agnes Scott Misses
Letitia and Lucy Martin Currie, leaving for
Salem College; Misses Jean and Kitty Mar-
tin, students at the University of Kentucky;
Misses Catherine Porter and Sara Barnette,
taking up their work at the North Carolina
College for Women; Misses Mary Hamilton,
Jane Richards, and Sara Withers, who will
attend Converse, and Miss Elizabeth Fry,
who will attend Mitchell College this year.

Those who have missed Miss Jessie
Averill, who is connected with the adminis-
tration offices of Davidson College, will be
interested to know that she is spending a few
days in Columbia, S. C.

Many of the older students of Davidson |

were agreeably surprised by a visit from
their friend and former professor, J. C.
Bailey, who was, passing through Davidson
on his way to Johns Hopkins University,
where he will continue his study of Greek.

Mr. McDowell Richards, who has just
completed his first year at Columbia Theo-
logical Seminary, left this week to continue
his course at that institution. Before enter-

ing the Seminary, Mr. Richards spent three |
years at Oxford University, where he was a}

Rhodes Scholar.

Dr. Watts entertained at his home last
Sunday night, several members of the Fresh-

man class. Refreshments were served, and
an enjoyable evening was spent. cn
church or other, but what did it mean © To

many it was only the outward conformity to

certain rules, but what was the feeling at |

heart? Until a man exhibits a real spiritual-
ity, he does not mean much to enrichment of
his own life and that of others.
are what face the college man of today.

tations is fooling himself.

of the lighter temptations, can throw off the
heavier ones, too, when Satan increases the
pressure. Dr, Johnson continued by saying
that those temptations that came from with-
out were bad, but those that come from with-
in were worse. No man has to seek temp-
tation.

And in conclusion, Dr. Johnson said that
man cannot fight these temptations by means
of resolutions made within himself. He
then cited the tragic instance of a-young man
who tried to do it. We must have assistance
from above. God and Jesus Christ are the
ones to aid us in the battle of life and with-

out them we can do nothing.
é ‘

hese things | °
fa To smoke wisely and well, choose Camels
The man that says he does not have temp- | ‘
from them. . But the man ae te |

by a special act of Congress, appointed sec-
| ond lieutenant in the U. S. Army. The reg-
| ulations are that one must be 21 years old be-
| fore becoming a commissioned officer, but he
was appointed because of his ability to effi-
ciently perform lifs duties then, His R. O.
T.:C. work-has been as extensive as any other
officer in the Army. He was one of the first
| to-be connected with such work actively and

| was the first P. M. S. & T. at Alabama Poly-

technic Institute (Auburn). The effects of
his work are still there in that they haveteld
the War Department's distinguished rating
since 1920. When he left there he was
closely connected with the R. O. T. C. while

Transferred to Pacific

| Col. F. W. Rowell, the R. 0. T. C. ofcer

In last week’s copy of The David-
sonian an announcement was made that
all persons desiring to subscribe to
The Davidsonian should send their
names and address together with 25
cents to P. J. Garrison, Davidson, N.
C. This should have read, Send your
name and address together with $2.50.
This error was due to a mistake of the
printers, and all subscribers are asked
to take notice and when they send in
their subscriptions to please remit
$2.50, so that there will be no delay in
getting their subscription started at
once, All alumni and subscribers are
urged to send in their subscriptions at
once so as to be able to keep up with
campus news from the very start.

— > ===—San»nnnRn={={=aja=a=aj_aqa=a=|=_
on duty with the War Department and later
was assigned to the Fourth Corps Area as
R. O. T. C. officer. He filled this office
splendidly and now goes to Vancouver. The
best wishes and friendly feeling of the Da-
vidson College R. O. T. C. unit go with him
to his new post.

night were quite a number of alumni.
Among those attending were Rev. W. C.
Brown, '93, of Barium Springs; J. B.
Johnston, ’o1, of Barium Springs; W. H.
Moore, '23, who has just returned from
a four years’ sojourn in Japan, and was
enroute to Harvard; Willard Keerans,
ex’27, of Charlotte; Johnny Adams, ’23,
who is attendig Jefferson Medical School
at Philadelphia; Bob Stowe, ’24, of Bel-
mont; J. R. Schenck, ’22, of Salisbury, and
D. R. LaFar, '22, ot Gastonia.

FELLOWS!

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

*»

S. College St.

A cordial invitation is
Davidson men to visit us for prompt,
-efficient and courteous work

THAD L. TATE BARBER SHOP

extended to all

Charlotte, N.C.

Wf) Hi

if) ty
Ml }

science.

Tuere’s an irresistible reason for choos-
ing this famous cigarette. :
popularity alone, but for that superior
quality that produces it. —

Camel wins its prestige with modern
smokers by forthright value. It is rolled
of the choicest tobaccos that money
can buy, and its blending is the taste
and fragrance triumph of tobacco

Not for its
of cost.

Select Camel

The Camel smoker is tobacco fit.
has the best, with no scrimping or denial
There are no four-wheel brakes
on Camel; no brakes at all. It is full
speed ahead, straight for quality.

He

for smoking pleasure,

and you'll join distinguished company.

Particular, modern smokers have elected

it on the principle of superiority.
“Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C,.

© 1927
