6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

High Point College
~ Student is Victor

Keith Harrison, of High Point College,
won the first annual North Carolina’ Inter-
collegiate Oratorical Contest, held at Ral-
eigh; Friday, March 25th. Other entries
were H. J. Oberholzer, State College; C. E.
Weston, Wake Forest, and W. E. Snow,
Elon, H, J. Oberhalzer, of State, was
awarded second place.

The awards were a gold medal for first
place and a silver for second. These will
acquire permanency in years to come, as it is
expected that the contest will be held every
year. The contests are held under the aus-
pices of the newly-formed North Carolina
Inter-collegiate Forensic Association, of

‘ which eight colleges in various parts of the
state, including Davidson, are members.

It was hoped at one time that a represen-
tative from Davidson might enter the con-
test, but this was impossible due to the heavy
debating schedule this year.

MATCH WITH FURMAN

(Continued from page 2)
possibly one other match. The trip will
cover a period of three or four days and
will be the only big trip the Freshmen will
make.

Harry Lauder says that bare knees in
Scotland did not originate in an economy
campaign, offering as proof the fact that
a good kilt costs more than thre® pairs of
trousers,

The Smithsonian Institute has listed about
5,700 known plants and trees growing in

“Y”’ Notes

The annual Life-work service of the “Y”
will begin on Sunday, April 3rd, with Dr. E.
G. Gammon as the speaker for the series of
services. He will be aided by the Columbia
quartet, and every indication is that this will
be a great time for the “Y,” a great group
of meetings led by an inspired preacher and
teacher.

Anyone who wishes to have-an interview
can arrange it by seeing Bill Covington some
time this week.
| Gan

The deputation that went to Glade Valley
reports a good trip. Grier Davis and Leigh-
ton McCutchen made the trip, each one mak-
ing two speeches. Other deputations will be
sent out early this week.

— Y

Jim Appleby, the “Y” secretary, has just
returned from a trip to the eastern part of
the state. He attended the Human Relations
Institute held at Chapel Hill last week, and
on his way back, stopped over at Raleigh and
made a talk on Vocational Guidance before
the State Educational meeting. He reports
that he had an excellent trip and that he got
many new ideas from the conference.

YV ae

The new officers of the “Y” will be in-
stalled on Sunday, April 10th, at the vesper
service of the “Y.’”’ This will be an impor-
tant and impressive service, and everybody
should plan to be there and help the “Y”
start the new year in the right way. Give
the new men your wholehearted support, and
help them a great deal by attending this
service.

PEGI pees

Mexico.

On Easter Sunday the “Y” service will

.

Georgia Tech Golf Team
+ to be Played April 9th

Tech Team to Include. World
Famous Star

4

The golf team will have the stiffest match
of the year when they meet Georgia Tech.
on the Charlotte links Saturday, April 9th.
Watts Gunn, famed golfer of Atlanta and a
member of the Walker Cup team, will be a
member of the Georgia Tech team. Our
team has in Tech. their strongest opponents
of the year and it is requested that as many
as possible attend the match and back up
their team with all the encouragement avail-
able.

Another match is being negotiated with
Salisbury to be played on their course Sat-
urday, April 2nd. This also will be a. good
match as‘it is reported that Salisbury has a
fine team.

A tournament is now under way by which
the third and fourth places on the team will
be decided. Steve McGill and Billy Wolfe

The men trying out for the third and fourth
places are Arthur Mills, Mattison, Carrol,
Ben Wilson, Menzies, White and Love.

The team regrets the temporary loss of
“Sloppy” Lingle, who was expected to take

part in their coming matches, but who is

tion for appendicitis.

consist of a special musical service, which
will be very short and perhaps will be held
out on the campus. This will be an unusual

and interesting meeting, and one that every-

body can enjoy to the fullest.

stabs the darkest
your jimmy-pipe

fresh-cut violets.

completely.
There’s more

|
, R. J.
1926 ¥ j Reynolds Topece?

verythings |
omg

all nght

THAT’S the way P. A. talks to you in the bowl:
of a pipe. This great national gloom-chaser

fo be

clouds with a ray of sunshine.

Buy a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today and
see. Tamp a load of this friendly tobacco into

and light up.

Cool as a sub-cellar. Sweet as the breath of

Fragrant in the tin and fra-

grant as you smoke it. Never a tongue-bite or
a throat-parch. So mild you can hit it up from
sun-up to sun-down, yet with a body that satisfies

philosophy in a pipe-load of

P. A. than in the average Doctor’s thesis. No
matter what brand you are smoking now, you
don’t know how much your jimmy-pipe can
mean to you until you pack it’ with good old
Prince Albert. Get started now.

-PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

P.A. is sold everywhere in
tidy red tins, pound and half.
pound tin humidors, and
pound crystal-glass humidors
with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit
of bite and parch removed by

the Prince Albert process,

so

hold the first and’ second places respectively>

now in the ‘hospital on account of an opera-

r
| Five Years Ago

| The new Physics building, directly east of
the Power House, was given its initial house-
warming Tuesday morfing of last week,
| when its doors were opened to students for
| the first time. This building has been under
| construction since the second week in Jan-
uary, but its completion was delayed consid-
erably by the inclemency of the weather.

Juniors stage greatest speaking occasion
in history of the college. Plays, orations,
baseball, carnival, fraternity receptions, and
the presence of many fair visitors, mark the
| great social event of the spring semester.
Split series with Oak Ridge and win over
Erskine opens 1922 baseball season. Wild-
cat hurling prospects show up well. Every
man on the team getting his batting eye, and
ball is being pounded to all corners of the
| field.

One of the novel features which added
much to the attractions of Junior Speaking
was the opening of the R. O. T. C. Museum
to visitors on the last evening of the Speak-
ing. Especially interesting was a sand table
reproduction of a section of the golf course.

On Tuesday evening of last week the
work; will begin their work with the next
issue of the paper. ;

Sixteen Juniors made the rafters in Shear-
er echo last Saturday, both morning and
Davidson students and townspeople had a
fine opportunity in hearing a lecture by
Prof. George McBryde Price, on the subject
of Evolution. Dr. Price is a professor in
the University of California, but is now
engaged in a lecture tour throughout the
United States, speaking against evolution.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle and Prof. F. K.
Fleagle attended the North Carolina Modern
Language Association, which met in Greens-
boro last Tuesday. Professor Fleagle gave
an address in Spanish, Dr. Lingle is vice-
president of the association and one of its
founders.

The Y. M. C. A. deputation which went to
Kings Mountain received a hearty welcome
and an enthusiastic response rarely met: with
in this kind of work. The team was com-
posed of McKethan, Haughton, Sorrels, La-
for, and Hillhouse. They left Davidson
Saturday afternoon and returned Wednes-
day.

Davidsonian staff named for coming year’s
night, but the judges were only permitted to
choose four orators, with a fifth as alternate ;
the job was not an easy one. Those chosen
were W. A. Gamble, F. S. Johnson, D .H.
Ogden, and G, B. Sorrells, with W. P. Kin-

sey as alternate.

Additional improvements have been made

NEW STETSON
HATS
$8.00

MEN’S DEPT.,

Bishop Penick Talks to
Students at ‘Y’ Vesper

The “Y” vesper service of last Sunday
evening was one of the most interesting and
impressive of any that have been held. The
service was led by Bill Hill; one of the
newly-elected vice-presidents of the Y. M.
C. A. After several songs and prayers, the
speaker for the’ service, Dr. Penick, Bishop
of the Diocese of North Carolina of the
Episcopal Church, was introduced by Dr. H.
B. Arbuckle.

Dr. Penick’s talk consisted of the develop-
ment of the fact that God speaks to us be-
cause He loves us. Taking as his text Heb
1:1-2, he showed in how many and how’
varied ways God speaks to us through His
beloved Son. In bringing out these chan-
nels of reaching souls he mentioned that the
most common for these methods was always
within the reach, comprehension and under-
standing of everyone who was interested and
concerned enough to desire to know God's
will. God, through His Son, speaks to
mankind through the will, emotion, intellect
and through prayer as well as through na-
ture. He clearly showed in how many ways
God proves His love for us and exhorted us
to remember this truth and to govern our
conduct so that we will not be ashamed for
God to know our innermost thoughts.

In concluding his talk he advanced the
assertion that it is absolutely necessary for
every man to make a clear-cut decision in
one way or another concerning Christ.
“There can be no one on the fence regarding

a decision—you cannot serve God and mam-
mon, I challenge every man of you to bet

his life that there is a true God.”

Believing that a man married fifty years
should be rewarded by the Government, a
Weedsport, N. Y., man has asked a New
York congressman to secure passage of a
bill granting him a pension.

The expression “a bee line” is derived

from the fact that a honey bee, having finish-

ed its job of collecting all the honey possible,
mounts a little into the air and then settles

} on the fraternity halls at Davidson. The
| floors in each hall were scraped, sand-pa-
| , A i

| pered, and varnished in preparation for the

| celebrations and festivities of Junior Speak-

| ing.

Among the Junior Speaking visitors were
|C. K. Brown, ’21, and Lunsford Richardson,
114, of Greensboro.

Fashion Park Clothes

Exclusive With Efird’s
in Charlotte

New Collegiate Styles for
Spring, $50.99

Just arrived, scores of smart

suits for Spring

CORRECTLY

tailored of fine materials in blues,
grays, tans and mixtures. Loose
sack coat, two or three buttons,

single or double-breasted.

SUITS OF
quality in distinctive styles, ex-

clusive with Efird’s in Charlotte.

FANCY SILK
SOCKS
75c. PR.

Cerone.

STREET FLOOR

