¥

T 1E DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927

‘Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published

BOYCE MARTIN. ...----c-2-----0------0-0e--- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, JR. ------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
.--Athletic Editor
-Associate Editor
.--Associate Editor
..-Associate Editor
gusuhe Alumni Editor
-.-Exchange Editor
AD ete seieunabedeuxau ue Business Manager

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY._-.--------- Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON.-_--.-- .-Assistant Business Manager

_....--Subscription Manager
_...---Circulation Manager

E. Hs McCALI
J. I. LOVE---
W. Hi. BAIL BYccs vs cee _....---President
Tic DUN eoasecsoucuces Z _..Vice-President
J. R. GRAHAM ----+------------.--Secretary-Treasurer
D. P. ANDERSON J. P. McBRYDE
W. _H. BEST R. W. McDERMID
' KE. T. EDELMAN J. P. McKNIGHT
M. T. GILMORE W.
A. N. HALVERSTADT Ww.
E. S. HEEFNER D.
M. K. HENDERSON V.
R. F. JARRATT C. M.
F. W. JOHNSTON D. T. STOKES _.
R. R. KANE W. R. TREVERTON
R. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
A. F. LAPSLEY B. A. WILSON
(’ V. LONG

EDITORIAL

With this issue The Davidsonian shuts up
up its typewriters for this year. No more
issues will appear since exams will start-
within the next week. Won’t sleep be sweet
on Monday nights for the next few months?

We wonder what has become of articles
written against compulsory church attend-
ance, petitions to the trustees to have dances

at the gym, fresh caps, “Davidson spirit,”
and if anybody ever reads these things. ©

_ Many a senior’s heart is beating hopefully
these days. Both for exam exemptions:.and
diplomas.

The Duke Chronicle is to be congratulated
on being adjudged the best college newspa-
per in the state for the past year. A good
paper has received its just reward.

There hasn’t been a fresh parade on any
occasion in a long time. We hope the Soph
Day committee has planned something of
the sort. We do so dearly love to see the
freshies in their gay “nighties.”

TOLERANCE

There has been much discussion recently
As to the C. C. Marshall-Governor Smith

S “controversy which held the interest of the

press for several days a little while ago. No
matter on what political side, or religious
side one might be, it is certain that some
great good has been derived from this dis-
cussion as far as tolerance is concerned. One
would think that we had drawn away from
the medieval idea of consolidation of church
and state yet there seem to be a number of
people who think that they are still one. To-
day is the time for such a thought to be
struck out of the minds of the people of
America and allow them to adopt a more
tolerant attitude toward all religious ques-
tions. Since religion is such an emotional
and a personal thing, it would seem that ev-
ery one would be exceedingly tolerant as to
the thought of other people, understanding
that it was their own opinion, whether it
was right or wrong was not theirs to judge.

There have been numerous people who
have thought that all Catholics considered
the Pope as the supreme authority on earth,
with no consideration for civil officials if
the two views happened to differ or if their
religious thoughts were variant. From St.
Bona Venture College comes an explanation
of that in an editorial in which it is explain-

ed that Catholic laws have always incul-

cated’ absolute: obedience to the civil laws.
The thought is further clarified when the
statement is made that every Catholic is
‘bound in conscience to obey the civil laws

...Managing Editor .

even though they are: promulgated by a
non-Catholic government. This is an inter-
esting point in regard to the fact that many
have always considered Catholics as obed-
ient primarily to the Pope and only second-
arily to the civil authories,

Every fair minded Protestant should rec-
ognize this fact now that the Catholic
Chureh -has-explained -itself-so -fully; con-
cisely, and completely on the subject and
understand that the Catholics are not at-
tempting to control the government through
their church or any oher misconception sim-
ilar to that. The Marshall-Smith letters and
statements have made already, in a small
way, the people in this country more tolerant
and more anxious to understand the two
sides of the question. A rapid stride has
been made.in the country’s progress when a
tolerant attitude is adopted throughout the
country. . By this we do not mean’that each
man should sacrifice his personal beliefs and
thoughts to any other, but that he should
recognize the thought of others as well as
his own.

That this tolerant attitude is spreading to
people of other religious beliefs as well as
those who profess the Protesant religion is
evidenced by the fact that only recently two
munificent gifts have been donated by Jews
to charitable organizations sponsored by
churches of a different faith. St. Joseph’s
Hospital, Long Island, N. Y., has been the
recipient ofa gift from Isaac D. Levy and
the University of Dayton has been donated
a large building by Victor Emanuel. The
only stipulation in both of these gifts is that
of sentiment, that they might be known as
memorials to deceased loved ones.

QUO VADIS?

Despite the fact that colleges were found-
ed to train the youth of the*land, or to mis-
quote a bit and apply a Horde! philosophy
in the wrong opening, ‘to train youth “to
see life steadily and to see it whole;” it
seems that in-a number of instances it is
practically failing. Not failing in the erudi-
tioty of the student in the classics, mathe-
matics, or similar scholarly pursuits but in
his knowledge of the world. There are
numbers of students on the campus who
subscribe to the daily newspapers, but their
chief interest is in the sporting section.
Notice in chapel some morning before the
papers are discarded. There are very few
who are looking at the front page to notice
current events, very few who are observing
on the editorial page what some man is
thinking of the affairs of the world; but
there are many who sée how the White Sox
came out yesterday, or how many hits so and
so got out of so many times at bat. In some
cases there are a few from Mississippi or
Arkansas who get the front page to see the
damage done by the flood in the last tweny-
four hours, but normally they are not inter-
ested in front page stories. The few stories
from the outside which are read are of mur-
der trials, notorious cases in the headlines,
but there is very little of the constructive
reading which should be done.

At Amherst College recently there were
only seven men who signified their intention
of entering the Current Events contest.
Only seven who thought they were capable
of discussing the world’s affairs intelligent-
ly... Probably at Davidson there would be
even less who were interestd. The old
familiar law of averages would compel one
or two to enter, but there would not be near
the number who should be able to discuss
with some degree of intelligence affairs of
the world.

The lack of proper facilities is no excuse
for such a situation. The reading room of
the library has numerous daily papers on its
racks and is open practically all of the day.
At the “Y” rooms there are other copies of
these papers, besides the ones subscribed to
by the various students. There are numer-
ous ways by which one could obtain current
reading matter if he so desired. But the
evil lies deeper than this shallow surface.
The students, although studying history,
literature and kindred subjects are not in-
terested in this history in the making today.

There is a small group on the campus or-
ganized definitely to study the problems of
history of today and the affairs of the va-
rious nations with reference to each other’s
policies, etc., but each student should be as
actively interested as some of the members
of this organization.

The importance of students studying the
problems of today and having some knowl-
edge at least of their general thought can-
not be overly emphasized. The college man
of today who ignores such things will be the
voter of tomorrow who goes to the polls
ignorant of the affairs of his country and
scarcely knowing that which he is voting
upon. This is a sad outlook when it is con-
sidered how many of these students are here
at Davidson. We are told by every chapel

Ollapodrida

Something was said in this column last week of
the uniformity of student thought and opinion.
In a very

Any conclusion was left to the reader.
pointed article in Scribners for April, one, Dr.
Dashiell, has expressed himself rather thoroughly
and unfavorably. Said Mr. Dashiell that the new
Federation of American College Students, recent-
ly formed at the University of Michigan, showed
that at least a few college students had opinions

of their own. However, said he, the large ma-
jority of such students are yet but symbols and
will continue to be such. We can but hope for
a new era of college organization.

We rather doubt Mr. Dashiell’s statements.
Rather we would think that the only student
opinion which comes before the public eye is the
uniform thought of iconoclastic students; those
who advocate a new order, which they think has
never been duplicated, but which in reality is but
an echo of their prototype in other schools. It
is not the thought 6f the saner majority, because
the saner majority have no uniform thought and
do not seek to give their personal opinions pub-
licity. They work to bring about their objectives
through quiet conservative methods.

The charge has been made that the college
campus is becoming too highly organized and the
statement can hardly be doubted when the facts
are considered. There are organizations of every
form, type and shape from state clubs to Soph
Day committees. . Forty-one regular student or-
ganizations aside from athletic teams were listed
in the 1926 Quips and. Cranks. Nor did this in-

clude class committees or similar organizations. »

A man of any importance on the campus will be
found to be listed in the membership of anywhere
from five to fifteen and also will be requested to
attend regular meetings.

It seems that a test of a man’s leadership is

almost a test of his willingness to attend meetings.

There are three distinct classes of attenders; those
who come regularly and on time, those who come
fairly often but usually late and those who never
attend. Only a chosen few are among the first
class. About half of the attenders are among the
second while at least a third comprise the last.
No matter how well the personelle of an organiza-

_tion is chosen the rule seems to hold almost con-

stantly. The fact is not only recognized but it
is an established precedent that no organization
requires more than two-thirds of its members to
form. a quorum, The other third are the non-
attenders.

A student calling to see certain men in chapel
will find that the rule holds good there. A com-
plete attendance, even for matters of utmost im-
portance, is as rare as a snow in June.

Hazing, that supposedly relegated custom of
the majority of American colleges, seems to thrive
in foreign lands. The Duke of York upon re-
ceiving an honorary degree recently from the
University of Vienna was thoroughly initiated.
uproarous dental students, jostle him, pushed him,
uttered remarks such as, “O, Buddie, I’m of good
extraction.” Two others confiscated the official
car, donned royal clothes and paraded them-
selves. . Obeisant peasants bowed low, were
shocked beyond measure when the royal pair
jestingly thumbed their noses to the public. Such
conduct in America would not be tolerated. It
seems that foreigners have a perverted sense of
humor.

And yet they themselves would probably be
equally shocked at the idea of maltreating a fellow
student by the application of paddle or broom to
the uninitiated newcomer.

Publicly the American student does not sanction
such action. Privately he does. Every possible
form of freshman control, other than force, has
been applied by students who still feel that such
control is necessary. All have failed more or less.
Davidson's Court of Control is far from satisfac-
tory. Many leading®” American schools let the
class run their free course allowing them every
privilege from the first. No great dissatisfaction
has been evident. It seems to be the best method.
The spirit of the dark ages can hardly be ex-
tinguished in a day, however. Time only will
work out the proper course.

One of the biggest fights in the history of Ohio
University was held recently in which over four
hundred. students were involved. The scrap
started when two hundred fresh.rebelled against
an equal number of sophomores ducking them.
And then on the other side of the question we
find that freshmen at Capital University have
voted to abolish hazing in order that the class of
1931 might not be subjected to the same injustices
to which their class were.

speaker who comes here that we are “the
leaders of tomorrow” and that the “fate of
the nation is in the hands of the college stu-
dents of today” and ‘yet the large majority
of students here care not, apparently, what
will be the fate of this nation or any other.

CollegeComment |

Recently at the University of Ottawa, a poll

was taken to discover the sentiment of the stu-
dent body with reference to compulsory chapel

attendance. It was discovered that the students

did not object to the services so much as to the
method by which they were conducted. Unani-
mous dissatisfation was voiced at the present
system.

Governor Donahey, of Ohio, was initiated into
Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity,
at Ohio State last* week.

As an aftermath to the big fight between the
Cambridge police and Harvard students last Feb-
ruary, President Lowell, of Harvard has asked
the resignation of four of the policemen for “Un-
necessary brutality.” Possibly they will be want-
ing to arrest the Princeton football team also.

John McGraw, manager of the New York
Giants and also an alumnus of St. Bonaventure,
has, arranged a baseball game between his team
and his alma mater to be played at Alleghany on
June Ist.

The Players, from the University of West Vir-
ginia, have again won the Cumnock cup as first
place in a recent national inter-collegiate one-act
play contest held at Northwestern University. The

“West Virginia group also won the contest two

years ago.

The freshmen of Purdee University held an egg
eating contest in connection with the annual egg
show held there last week. There were several
events and eggs were eaten both cooked and raw.

Another college has joined the ranks of those
prohibiting the use of automobiles by students
matriculated at the institution. St. Bonaventure
college made this announcement recently, to be
effective at the beginning of the fall semester.

College authorities are active these days in
banning ancient traditions at the various univer-
sities. At De Pauw, the authorities have pro-
hibited all pajama parades which the students
were>-accustomed to hold. Also, the college au-
thorities at Oberlin have banned the midnight
serenades with which the eds were wont to en-
tertain the co-eds.

And more tradition gone, though not at the
Hands of the faculties. At Princeton, ivy which
had been growing on the walls of one of the dor-
mitories since 1890 was torn away by high winds
and it was impossible, to replace it.

A tourist, going through Minnesota, had a slight
accident. Unable to find the necessary wrench,
he went to a farmhouse and inquired of the

Swedish owner: “Have you a monkey-wrench

here?”

“Naw,” replied the Swede. “My brother bane
got a cattle rench over there; and my cousin bane
got a sheep rench down there; but too dar’ cold

for a monkey rench.”
—The Bulldog, Citadel.

The Austin College (Texas) Kangaroo“has a
leading editorial on the’ subject of “Why De Col-
lege Men Smoke?” We have often wondered
the same thing upon being asked for a cigarette.

At the University of Kansas recently a feature
of a large track meet was the staging of a prim-?*
itive game of football by some Indians. They
used a wooden ball and propelled it only with
their feet.

Last Saturday the staff of the Harvard Crim-
son played a baseball game opposed by the staff
of the Daily Princetonian. It seems from this
that the two institutions have not broken athletic_
relationships entirely if that game he classed as
an athletic contest.

University of Oregon has received more than a
quarter of a million dollars in the last six months
as gifts to the institutions. Davidson should get
in touch with their campaign manager and pos-
sibly Chambers would be finished sooner.

Approximately three-fourths of the faculty at
Amherst College have petitioned the governor
of Massachusetts to reopen the Sacca-Vanzetti
case. :

A ruling at Ohio State recently announced by
the president prohibits the ‘throwing of a fresh-
man in the lake.” Any man so doing will sever

~ his connection with the university. This abolished

the Bucket and Dipper, whose duty it was to
punish miscreants in the fresh class, usually by
throwing them in the lake in’ the middle of the |
campus.
