“8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

Brown. and Greye are favorites this year, and

all the approved shades are featured in our “col-

legiate” model suits. . 9 - ‘

$35 to $55
TATE-BROWN CO.

= AROLINA |
\ Theatre

STARTING THURSDAY FOR THREE DAYS

“ONE HOUR OF LOVE”

and Four Acts Keith Vaudeville

MON., TUES., WED.
Oct. 3, 4, 5

THE ROUGH RIDERS

With Wallace Beery, Geo. Bancroft
—News and Comedy—

Q

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Shirts
Ties, Hats and Caps.

New shipments received weekly. Come in and
give ue a trial. Your business always appreciated.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, Oct. 3 and 4

Loves of Carmen, with Dolores Del Rio

WEDNESDAY, Oct. 5
Lois Wilson and Bert Lytell, alias the Lone Wolf

THURSDAY, Oct. 6

“Rough Riders,”.a Paramount Special
SERIDAY, Oct. 7
Richard Dix in Shanghai Bound
Bac: SATURDAY, Oct. 8
a Buck Jones in Chain Lightning

PROMINENT LAWYER

(Continued from. page one)

Here Colonel Kirkpatrick took up the
question of the progressiveness of the church,
the part it takes in the community life, the
part it plays in the individual life. He stated
that the church should lead in the economic
questions of the day; that the church should
be the leader in education, in recreation, in
government and administration. At this point,
the speaker presented his central plea, name-
ly, that we make our ideal Christianity a
practical Christianity. The Son of God
came into the world to heal the sick, to make
the blind to see, the lame to walk, and to min-
ister to the poor. The last thing which the
New Testament says was the purpose of
Christ was to preach. The speaker wonders
if we haven't put the practical side of the
religion in the last and have put preaching to
the front. He brought to the attention of the
audience many of the conditions existing in
North Carolina today. He said there are 33
chaingangs in this state, cOnsisting of 1,521
men, 15 per cent of whom are from 15 to 21
years of age, with a very small per cent of
them boasting of any education. He advo-
cates the founding of schools in which the
citizenship of these younger men can be con-
served rather than making confirmed crimi-
nals of them by throwing theaNnto company
with hardened men. \

The later part of Colonel Kiar’
speech was concerned with the stability of
the Bible. It has stood the test of nearly
3,000 years and is the only book of religion
and theology to stand the scrutiny and close
study of intellect. The more thoroughly the
Bible is studied the more intensely is it ap-
preciated.

DICK GREY LEADS

(Continued from page 1)

had possession of the ball on their own 40-
yard line when Harrison got loose on a sprint
around the right flank for 25 yards. A series
of gains lagely by Nisbet and Harrison. put
the ball 16 yards from the Citadel goal and
it was then that Dick Grey calmly stepped
back and booted squarely between the up-
rights for the first three points. : The re-
mainder of the first half was marked by set-
tled scrimmage near the middle of the field.
After the second half had gotten under
way the Davidson team started another jour-
ney toward the seemingly distant goal of the
Bulldogs. After a mach of 43 yards the
would-be touchdown failed to register as the
forward defense of the Blue and White team
took a new lease on life and Nisbet bounced
off as he drove against the line in an attempt
to make a yard on the last down. The ball
went over and the Citadel chose to kick out
of danger, but Jim Grey seeped through and
blocked the punt, McConnell covering it for
the remainder of the five-point score.

The Citadel showed signs of gaining
ground only to lose the ball on an intercepted
pass. Again the Red and Black team started
a rush but made a fumble which practically
annihilated any further chance. to score and
the latter part of the game was a see-saw
affair between the two teams, no great gains
being executed by either team.

In the last part of the game, Jim Grey, who
had been playing a great game at center, fell
and’ was carried from the field with what was
reported to be a broken arm, but since then
the injury was diagnosed to be badly strained
ligaments which will keep him out of the
line-up for a few games and will prove a
great loss to the “Thin Red Line.” Aside
from this there were no injuries.

The forward defense of the Davidson team
showed up surprisingly strong in the opening
game and were able to open creditable holes
in the opponents most of the time. Melton, at
guard, was one of the fastest men and did
fast work on the defense. Arrowood was a

..| Stubborn obstacle in ‘the way of the Bulldog
end runs. Letwich played a nice game also.

In the backfield Nisbet and Harrison fur-
nished most of the thrills for the 4,000 spec-
tators that filled the Gastonia High School
Stadium. Nisbet exhibited a drive through
the line that was botli spectacular and consist-
ent. Harrison sped through and around the
Bulldogs for good gains all through the
game. Duvall and Captain Blanding were the
most outstanding men on the Citadel team.
The linen-up and summary:

The Citadel Position Davidson
Ferguson --- LE ‘Arrowood
King, B, ---------. } 6 Lier eee McConnell
Arnold .-.--.---- LG ....---.-.2.. Laws
Skelton ~.--.---. Center ~---_-... Grey, J.
Wideman --..-.--. RG esse eee McColgan
Figg - RT Melton
King, R. RE Wearn
Blanding (C) ---- QB -----.----- Wilson
Duvall:_.-...----.. GH-ass Grey, R. (C)
Hasselmeyer RH Harrison
Ingram FB Nisbet

Score by quarters;

Cliadal cucss 00 0 0-0

Davidson ----------------- 03 2 0—5 | Jim Grey; Hunt for Laws; Kell for Flinn;
Substitutions: “For Citadel—Howie for | Hewlitt for Kell.

Ingram. for Arnold; Wood for Ferguson ; | Officials: Hartsell (N. C. State), referee;
Bradenburg for Hasselmeyer. For David- :
son—Boker for McConnell; Kell for Wil- :
son; Leftwich for McColgan; McColgan for (Roanoke), headlinesman; Rawson (Geor-

McConnell; Flin for Nisbet; DeArmon for gia), timekeeper.

Von Glahn (Maryland), umpire; Norman

AN.
SSEX
Speedabout

To SOME COLLEGE ARTIST

Arrio, new Essex
Speedabout with a special paint job, as first prize—a
precision, Gruen Pentagon Watch, the latest Paladin
model, as second prize, and seventy-five other prizes
of artists’ supplies by Eugene Dietzgen Company will
be awarded by COLLEGE HUMOR to the college
artists submitting the best original drawings before
January 15, 1928.

Drawings may be done in any medium in black and
white. Several drawings may be submitted if return
postage accompanies each drawing.

Three famous artists, James Montgomery Flagg,
Gaar Williams and Arthur William Brown, will judge
the drawings. -In case of a tie two Essex cars will
awarded. Other drawings, if accepted, will be paid
for at regular rates.

See the new Essex Speedabout you may win at

For complete details see a copy of COLLEGE HUMOR
now on sale on the news-stands. Drawings shou
be sent immediately to the Art Contest Editor

IMPERIAL Ser

The First of the |The Second of the
Big Six Big Six

LILLIAN GISH Chester Conklin, George
IN Bancroft
“ANNIE LAURIE” hy

; “Tell It To Sweeney
You'll love this picture as you :
love the song. A production of | The laughs.are coming. This is
breath - taking magnificence, a | the best comedy .team in many
romance of unforgettable beauty ' seasons. Don’t miss it.

Expert advice
Efficient service
Fair adjustments

Prompt Settlement

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

lcALISTER CARSON (13) Mgr. M. B. SPEIR, JR. (26)

Incorporated

MANUFA OF
. “DE LUXE” ICE C .M
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. Cc.

CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

