6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

Many Applications Davidson Given
Received for 1928

College, announced today that over 200 ap-| made the delighted recipients of a gift of
plications have been from high fifty dollars from the college for the pur-

school students who desire to matriculate as | pose of further equipping and outfitting

received

Money for Office

. ¢ : | oop : : ° * ot Y ri yarns,
FW. Hengeveld, registrar of Davidson} The Davidsonian staff has recently been Speaker Presents “Friendship With Reds menace the world, writer warns

Dr. R. C. Grier Speaks

at “Y” Vesper Service

God” as Life Program

The program of the “Y” vesper service

| .

Current Events

Gerville Reache, noted French publicist,
|writing from Paris, takes the view that
Russia is definitely~planning an armed ef-

‘ PORTA Ds NO tay PoE z : ‘ Gusts jheand Weoniniie h
freshmen here in the fall of 1927. Of this its office in Oak Row. This gift comes at Sunday evening was one of the omst inspir- fort to spread ‘socialism throughout the

number, 110 have already been accepted. a time when it is sorely needed, already the ing of the year. Dr. R. Calvin Grier, pres- world, : tat :
This condition has been true for the past | staff having made plans for the purchase of ident of Erskine College at Due West, S. C., uation carefully, that the entire future of

several years, Davidson turning away more needed articles. Additional typewriters,

delivered a very impressive addres. Erskine

He says, after analyzing the sit-

humanity rests on the stand taken by the

students than it can accept for the fresh- | copy paper, chairs and d@les are some of is a Sister institution of Davidson, being | United States and France in the line-up of |

man class. Generally, the enrollment for | the items on the “wanted list”,

rate, the quota will be reached within a short | heating plant will be installed. The

applications every day. | supervision of the editor-in-chief, Harlee

Branch, Jr.

She was only a realtor’s daughter but she| Last year the Davidsonian received from

loved him a lot.

| new

Father~—“Son, what does this 60 on

nh typewriters, chairs, desks and other small
your paper mean?

Ellet—‘I can’t imagine ‘less. it is the
temperature of the room.”

during the past year by the Davidsonian
in sponsoring various entertainments here
on the Hill, has béen recently received from
Conrad Frederick Smith, editor of the |
Davidsonian during the last year.
Smith has also made a large contribution
in the shape of a large amount of copy paper
to be used in the makeup of the paper, such |
as writing stories, assignments, heads, ete. |

It is probable that the Davidsonian will |
sponsor some form of entertainment suéh |
as girls’ glee club and dramatic clubs some |
time during the spring or next fall. The |
proceeds of these programs to be used in|
further the equipment of the paper’s quar- |
ters. Further announcements of the above |
plans will be given later. |

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

Sullivan Wires-Home
Dear Pa:
Tlow's ma?

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Send money,

Rah! Rah!
Mads

z)

Droit tet itt titi

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK: AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

[LITT III Ir

ANOTHER CAR STOLEN

YOURS may be next! A Fire and Theft Insurance

Policy will protect you against that hazard. Let us cover your
car,

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
” McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.

TITITIT IT LIIr tt rttrrtrrrtrt trrrrd

M. B. SPEIR, JR. (‘26

4
an
(os

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU

Drinks Candy
Austin Candy

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

Shop

e

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervisién of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

R. A. DUNN, President i I, W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

~

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Mr, |

| poses Of many o fthe hardships to-be endur- |

|

ex- | pathetic understanding with the problems of | Spain’s Davis cup net champion, and Hunter,
time, since the registrar receives additional penditure of these funds will be under the | young men, and his address was interesting | Olympic doubles title holder at Palm Beach,

| and helpful.

Taking as his subject “Friendship with |

| God”, Dr. Grier said that to be a true Christ- |

the Student Store fifty dollars to aid in! ian one must know God in his innermost | during,the past season, was elected captain
| equipping the office when it moved to its, relations. Not-only in the outward forms of |of the Georgia Tech 1928 basketball team
location. This money was spent on religion, but in his personal life one should| at a banquet given Saturday night at the

To)

japproach God in the serious things.

| items. A surplus of fourteen dollars made | realize God as a friend, we must put ab- | Hearn was elected alternate captain.

solute faith and trust in Him. Atheists and |

| skeptics do not know God but when one |
comes to the Christian viewpoint he sees |
Him as the supreme ruler of the universe
and the controller of man’s destiny.

Dr. Grier further said that we are often
unable to understand certain things when
they happen and are prone to doubt’s God’s |
plan. In later life, we realize |
that it was all for the best, and can under- |
stand the purpose of the Divine plan... Giv- |
ing beautiful illustration the life of
a certain elderly gentleman, Dr. Grier said
that when in his youth this man had be- |
come vexed with the problems of prep school |

life, and was unable to understand the pur- |

however,

asa

ed, in his later years he could look back over |

,the past with a clear insight into the pur-| by Rev. Walter Wynn, an Englishman who

pose of these hardships. The elderly gen- |
tleman had learned the lesson that when |
we put our trust in Him and believe all |

| things are for the hest all things will turn | to the United States and England.

Dr. that it is

sometimes only in the time of greatest sor- |
3 |
| row that come to know God asthe greatest |

out well. Grier also said

Possibly, | one of the three colleges under the A. R. P. | powers.

the following year is completed before the |if further finances are forthcoming from) Church. Because of his intimate connection
: rr : [azey ° i ae

end of school in, June, and at the present |an yor other souxce; filling cabinets and a! with college students, Dr. Grier has sym- den and Coen were

is defeated in doubles tilt. Til- '
defeated by Alonzo,

Tilden

Fla., Saturday, March 12.

Nick George, who has won a string of
laurels on the Southern basketball courts

Atlanta Athletic Club. William (Tiny)

Only non-residents of South Carolina who
happen to be passing through can buy
gasoline from the filling stations of South
Carolina according to the decree of the gov-
ernor, ;

The British bar the entry of Shantungese
to foreign district. p

Japan is being swept by ‘another storm,
silent wires show. Indications that another
severe storm is sweeping Japan, following
recent earthquake disaster, were given in
the telegraphic advices received in New York
Saturday.

France is facing a movement for a clean-
up of the stage. Critics are trying to do
away with the most vulgar of these plays.

Warning against July 11, 1927 was given

makes a practice of reading the world’s
future in the great Egyptian pyramid at
Gizeh. He claims that the date forbodes ill

The Chinese radicals" gain control over
Nationalist party.

The United States consul at Brazil was

\
|

More students in the United States are
studying outside college walls than with-
in. A student body of over 3,000,000,
without a football team, class colors,
registrars or superintendent of buildings
and structures is scattered over the coun-
try.

Workers who would strengthen them-
selves in the “class, struggle,” workers
who would push up into more leisured
classes; wives of the newly rich getting
“culture,” tardily; ambitious high school
graduates without means; for college
middie aged graduates of grammar
schools seeking togain what they were
deprived of by years of hard work.
Farmers, merchants, shoe salesmen, all
types of men and women are pursuing
some kind of education after working
hours; either By correspondence or under
public library guidance or in university
extension classes, workers’ education
classes, workers’ summer schools, folk
schools, institutes of museum classes.”

For this huge adult student body new
methods of teaching are evolving. In
England and the continental countries
adult education is much farther advanced
than in America. But for the past two
years the Carnegie Foundation has been
surveying the field. As a result,’ five vol-
umes are being prepared on the subject,
treating adult education of all types, from
university extension to chatatiqua.

A clearing house for the adult educa-
tion‘movement has been @pened at 41 E.
gznd Sty New York. It is to be called the
American Association of Adult Educa-
tion, It will arrange educational meet-
ings and issue publications dealing with
adult education problems. The associa-
tion’s members will include teachers and
students in adult education, as well as in-
stitutions.- It has already established re-
lations with similar bodies in Europe. —
New Student.

Visitor—‘And
flunked out?
Davidson?”

you say my _ cousin
How long did he stay at

McGee—“About 25 trips to Charlotte”

~

| human friend, He told the story of a young | stabbed t6 death recently by an American

girl who learned to love God as a friend | who was pressing a claim. The murder took

at the death of her little son. So likewise | place at the American consulate in Brazil.
many Christians are not able to realize God's | A legless man is now attempting to swim

true friendship until time of sorrow.

|
|

Wildcats’ Success
at Last Explained

It haso been revealed here that “Lady
Luck” more important part in
Davidson winning the state football cham-
pionship last season than was at first
thought. When “Doctor” Charlie, negro,
was putting away uniforms, he was @bserv-
Led ripping open one of the trousers leg of
each uniform. It was then disclosed that
he had sewed a rabbit's foot into each uni-
form of the varsity, and was extricating
them for further use next season. In the
Carolina game he buried: horseshoe between
the goal posts, and brought into play many
other forms of the superstitious belief, The
question has been asked, “Did he visit Ral-
eigh before the Wake Borest game and put
a rabbit’s foot in each N. C. State uni-
form.”

claims a

SOPHS VICTORS

(Continued from page 1)

seconds—One half-sole by Frye shoe shop.
Shot Put—Won by Melton, 33 ft. 9 1-2 in,
—Two rides to Charlotte given by Zero
Keever.

Discus—Won by Regen, 95 ft. 10 in—
Two rides to Charlotte by Harvey Worsham

High jumps—Won by Dumas and Smith,
5 ft. 2 in—One dollar in trade given by
Norton Barber Shop.

Broad jump—Won by Kell—One dollar in
trade given by Johnson’s Barber Shop, 19
ft. 2 in.

Pole Vault—Won by Bailey, 9 ft. 6 in—
Pocket knife given by Goodrum and Co.

Javelin—Won by Brown—Tie or socks
given by Barnett.

The prizes for second place were as fol-
lows: :

440 yd. run—Won by ‘O’Neal—Tie or
socks by A. S. Brown.

880 yd. run—Won by Treverton—Steak
dinner given at Wildcat Cafe.

100 yd. dash—Cake given by Misses
Schefield—Won by Flynn.

1 mile run—Won by Lafferty — Half
dozen oranges given by Fidler Brothers.

She—“My hair is simply a wreck.”

else when you left the switch open?”

He—“How can you expect anything

| to Catilina islands. The swimmer, Charles
| Zimmy, started his swim at 3:05, March 11.

Minister visiting in home of a member
—"What a funny name! Why do you
call your daughter ‘Sunflower’ ?”

Mother—“Well, you watch her next

time she sees the miller’s son. She turns |
her face toward him every time.”

Fresh Country Vegetables |

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenist ing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

BRAE

|

S

The new ones are

$35

martly style clothes for college men not
only by popular acclaim---but recognized
thruout college circles as the authoritative---
scholastically speaking.

man could wish for.

to

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BURN

everything a college

$50

