wy

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

Dr. Martin Suffers _
Attack of Neuritis

Dr. W. J. Martin has been confined to his |
home for the past week following a rather |
Severe attack of neuritis. His condition ‘is |
much improved now, however, and he will |
soon be able to resume his regular duties. |
His condition was enough improved last
Sunday so that he was able to attend church.

State Volunteer Praise Accorded Writer
Bands to Convene. _ of Eighteenth Century

The annual state convention of the Stu- Local Student Reviews and Praises
dent Volunteer Bands of the leading colleges Life and Works of Noted
of North. Carolina, will be held on the 18th English Author
and 19th of this month. Elon College, ———
Elon, N: C;, will the host
casion.

This convention is held each year and is of

at

Samuel Pepys—that grand old diary man
who cranked out in the course of nine event-
“as

be on this oc-

ful years a tragi-comic drama of life

“Y” Column

In view of the interest taken in the checker
tournament just finished, the “Y’’ is going to
sponsor a chess tournament. All those who
want to enter this contest are asked to drop

by the “Y” in the next few days and sign |

up. The particulars will be.announced later,
as to rules governing the games, etc.
y

Dr. Martin has had several attacks of this especial interest to students who have devoted was’ in. his day—deserves more attention
kind in the past, but the one from which he | themselves to volunteer work. among college men that he is usually given. ; i Bey
has just recovered is one of the worst ‘he lias Last year Greensboro College for Women | To judge from the minor place accorded him | der way and is arousing a great deal of in-
ever suffered. ‘ falutin’ anthologies of English | terest in the student body. The next profes-

The Vocational Guidance Institute is un-

was the place of the convention. Several in our high
| Davidson men attended and reported ‘much literature, a person would think poor Pepys’ | sional man to come here will be Dr. M. C.
| benefit. Among the schools:that will send) we'l-kuown-of but little-known-from collec- 5S. Noble, former Professor of Psychology at
delegates are: Duke University, Greensboro tion of daily life-slices is still lying around , Davidson, and also at U. N. C.,, now con-

NOTED GERMAN LECTURER

(Continued from page 1) | for Women, Queens College,

cornerstone of the German Republic, a | and Davidson.
result of the equal franchise gi ing evi- f
dence of the industrial and soctaf struc- during this meeting. These talks will be | Pepys Library at Magdalene Collége. Mag- | even expect to teach for only a year or two
ture and therefore truly representing the| upon the problems of the Student Volunteer dalene College is pronounced Mauldin Col- | ate urged to attend and hear Dr. Noble.
democratic and socialistic majority of the | Movement throughout the country. Mission- lege and is a part of jolly old Cambridge. | Take advantage of this expert advice and
people. |ary work will be particularly stressed. Mr. Pepys bequeathed the Pepys Library to | hear this teacher.
Among the Davidson students who have | his alma. mater. petits | oes
Having now painted (perhaps in too florid| Have you read “The Meaning of Faith,”
| or perhaps “The Dynamic of Manhood?” If
federal, a steady republic. New men con-| Rice. 'of Pepys facts, it wouldn’t be such a bad | you haven't read these excellent books, drop
trol a'new machine. | idea to commence to begin work on his por- | by the “Y”: room and look them over. They

“THe ‘political revolution: of the pew three facts about Germany and three trait. Samuel Pepys (Peeps, Peps, Pepis— | are only good samples of the great variety
Germany took place October, 1918. The! facts concerning Europe : _j or what have you?) arrived in England dur- | of good books on sale there.
common danger of Russian Communism “I—No other nation is as devoid of! ing the year 1633. yes

After passing eda |
was the common interest which from the | tural boundaries as Germany; open. to the childhood which is always a prerequisite |
very day of the November revolution

| The ake n 8 S av. ha

all directions, never and nowhere pro- to the attainment of manhood, Pepys aue-| aac ae eek yan ne
united the two personalities, who ‘saved | tected, and now even disarmed. | ceeded in presenting this appearance in the | Atlanta Diocese and national eae of a tape
Germany and Europe from the Bolshe- “2—-No other nation has as manyjeyes of Restoration England: Smallish, | social fraternity. Bishop Mikel is very popu-
vism disorder, Ebert—at that time labor neighbors as Germany, namely fifteen, | bright-cyed,, and sprucely dressed. His face | lar among young men and will bring a mes-
leader and Hindenburg—at that time|@¢M single one of the larger ones su-| was of the Lon Chaney type and he Was | sage that will help every man on Davidson
army leader. It was Ebert's historical| Perio to Germany by armaments and _ sensible enough to admit that fact. When, campus. Don’t miss this talk—it’ll bec of
mission to win over the laboring classes alliances. | in his old days, he acquired sufficient fortune the best of the spring services,
to the new state of a democratic rep: "3—No other nation has her co-nation- and prestige to command the servise of aon Vane
ublic, and it is Hindenburg’s historical als as dispersed as Germany, among 16 | ing artists from the nobility of Charles Sec- |
mission to win over the Burgeoisie.
“Hindenburg is like the American Gen-

Wake Forest, alone. As a matter of fact the actual diary | cation, who will speak on Education and
= is well preserved in six leatherbound actavo | Teaching in general.

“The new Germany is no more a Great- or ; " :
er Prussia, but a composite German or- | Signified their intention of attending are:
ganism, decentralized, neither unitary nor Kenneth Forbes, J. M. Andrews, and W. B. colors) the background of a leisurely tour

College for Women, North Carolina College in the finely writtén shorthand manuscript | nected with the State Department of Edu- |

All those who intend |
Many brilliant and noted men will speak | volumes which.stand on the shelves of the#to take up teaching as their life work or

1
' koontz will make a report before the cabinet,
of the Milwaukee Conference, which he at-
tended recently. All who are interested in
the work of the “Y”’ or would like to know
something of the activities of such a national
conference as this, are invited to remain at
this public meeting of the cabinet.

: Y.

A Thought for the Week: “The highest
type of Christian faith is not the open vis-
ion, not some hour of rapt contemplation,
but the recognization of the presence of
Christ in daily work, the consciousness that
as a man goes on and tries to do his work
Christ is with him, and that the rewards of
his labor come from Him.”

Can we not hold a’ thought such as this
before us as we go about our asigned tasks ?

GRID STARS OUT

Two of the mainstays of this year’s Fresh-
man football squad are on the sick and in-
jured list instead of the list of those who
are turning out daily for spring practice.
Allan DeCamp is in the Charlotte Sana-
torium recovering from an operation for
appendicitis and T. R. Carson is out of the
game with a broken leg.

Carson was a member of the Gastonia
High championship team and. was a regular
tackle on the Freshman team. He was the
first casualty of the regular spring practice
and suffered the ill fortune of breaking his
leg early in the practice last week. The
small bone is broken just above the ankle.

DeCamp’s operation was rather serious
and certain complications were feared. He
is recovering swiftly, however, and will soon
be able to return to school.

Miss Sarah Lingle visited her parents, Dr.
and Mrs, T. W. Lingle, for several days
during the past week. Miss Lingle is teach-
ing at Converse College, in Spartanburg.

; ; | After “Y” Sunday night, Harr ’-
neighboring and adjoining states. ond’s court Papys paid these artists to por- | ehh yes)
“And the Treaty of Versailles has di-| tray him as he really looked; not as he might |
eral Washington, first a general in, war, vided Europe into more so-called national wish he looked.
thenea leader in peace. ¢
“The new leadership in Germany, gift-

° Why + e
States than ever existed, thirty-seven in-
ed with vision and courage, has to face

stead of twenty-five.
LOLI HOE HEE BOL aL ENE BENDEL DE dE EDL ERDE DEBE OP

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

There will now be a show of hands of
| those who have always held Pepys in their

“Not one of these states was built on! mind’s eye as an old man, decrepit to a cer-
economic efficiency, but political tain extent but despite his fecbleness in-
urgency. Not one of these new states is! clined toward paity—a gay old codger, to use
a homogeneous state of one nation; each | plain college English. Correct! There is,
one is composed of various nationalities} you will notice, almost a 100 per cent ele-
and_ minorities. | vation of five digited apo-terra appendages.

“Germany is the most internationally! We of the negative side shall sweep away
located nation of the world. This situa- | this befuddling cobweb, For Samuel Pepys
tion has created the political philosophy | wrote his famous diary between, and includ-
of the new Germany and of “European-| ing, the years 1660 and 1669. He was born
ism,” of inter-Eurepean interdependence) in 1633. Therefore, he wrote the diary be-
and mutual co-operation, These are the) tween his 27th and 36th years. Not so old,
underlying tendencies. of the American! was he? Now go to the “young Pepys’ ”
Dawes scheme (the life insurance of | diary and enjoy Pepys’ escapades. This is
Germany), the Locarno system (the mu- | the record. of a young college graduate’s
tual life insurance of the European eventful life—not a dry, pitiful account of
powers), the League of Nations at Gene-| middle-aged misbehaviour.
va, (the new international: machinery), In paragraph one, Most Gentle Reader,
and the meeting of Thorry (the French- perhaps you went astray on account of the
German rapprochment). So the hard apparent lack of logic. The point is that al-
way of Germany became a European | though the original manuascript in [epys’
headway and may become an internation-| own system of shorthand does exist tod
al highway.”

on

VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

ee ae |

ARAARARRAAAARRAAAKRARAKKAAAARAAAE

ay,
| yet there have been several excellent Queens’
| English editions published: A certain John
Smith, an undergrad of St. John’s College,
| devoted three years of his life, working 12
hours a,day, on the complete transeripcien of
| the diary. He complained that the job was
|“very trying and injuridus to the visual
| organs.”
¢|

Everything a good Drug Store

can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

And. now, having prefaced the diary itself
| with a, fewscursory remarks regarding the
youthfulness and youthful enthusiasm of Mr.
| Samuel Pepys, this prefacer will ask the |
| Gentle Reader to read some more in “Every-
| body's Pepys” or some other good edition
}of the diary. He shall leave you resting in
| peace while he also continues to become ac-
| quainted with the life of Samuel Pepys from
| 1660 through 1669,

In Statesville We Are Located |
TO SERVE YOU - |

Drinks Candy
Austin Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C. _/newed.

Dr. McConnell, as secretary of the State
| Board of Medical Examiners, along with
| other members of that body, protested stren-
uously and were successful in preventing the
passage of this amendment.

DR. McCONNELL SPEAKS

| Dr. J. W. McConnell made an address last
week before the State Legislature at Raleigh
| opposing an amendment to the Medical Prac-
| tices Act. The proposed amendment would
|have permitted revoked licenses to be ‘re-

Smokes

WHEN IN STATESVILLE

CALL ON US FOR YOUR.
BARBER SHOP WANTS

DEBATING TRYOUTS

(Continued from page 1)
them may be obtained from Miss Shaw,
the libraran.

A meet with Emory University, of At-
lanta, is pending and will probably be
arranged within a few days. This debate
has been held during the fall season dur-

Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N, C.

Buy Your Suit or
Overcoat Now!

There is) nothing so unusual akout a
$35 suit or overcoat, but when you -uy
one that formerly sold for $50, $55 or
even $60 for $35 then there is scme-

thing unusual about it---it’s a value !

We’re offering values like
that right now in suits and
overcoats made by Brae-
burn, Hart, Schaffner &
Marx and Hickey-Freeman.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ing the past few years.

