THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

MILITARY DEPARTMENT WELL ~*~

FURNISHED

It is known to be true that the alumni,
friends and even the students themselves do
not know and fully realize how well the R.
O. T. C. Department at Davidson is equipped
and prepared to instruct and train the stu-
dents in military science and tactics. . There-
fore, it is the purpose of the somewhat sta-
tistical report which follows to give this:
information. The list has been carefully
checked by Captain John W. Elkin and Ser-
geant Kirby, of the R. O. T. C. Department, |
and contains an accurate presentation of the
facilities of the department.

First, there is an up-to-date and carefully
equipped Armory. Contained in the Armory
is U. S. Government property amounting to '
$63,000 worth. It includes:

400 Khaki uniforms of seven pieces each,
one of which is issued to each stu-
dent in the Basic Course.

429 U. S.. Magazine Rifles with accom-

panying cartridge belts, one of which
is issued to each student.

300 Sets of Infantry Packs.

. 300 Shelter halves.
300 Mess kits.
300 Canteens.
Browning Automatic rifles.
4 Browning Machine guns.
37MM Gun (one pounder).

Tl 3-inch Stokes Mortar.

26 45-calibre Automatic Pistols.
18 U. S. 22-calibre Rifles.
20 Complete map drawing outfits.

1 Set of Colors.

4 Company Flags.

.o}

1 Complete set of Band instruments for
a 45-piece Band.

To be used in connection with the above
are: Field telephones, target range equip-
ment, wire-cutters, ammunition,
caisons, maps, “and repair chests.

harness,

The building contains two regular size
class rooms, and two smaller class rooms
equipped with blackboards and desks. The
offices of the staff are in two rooms on the
first floor. They aré equipped with. office
furniture, typewriers, telephones, mimco- |
graphs, and books for the office work of the!
department.

Tite entire remainder of the first floor is
a combined workroom and storeroom. A
gallery in this department serves as a store-
room. The property of the Government is
all housed in this building.

The equipment outside the Armory con- |
sists of a small field for outdoor class work, |
an indoor rifle gallery, an outdoor rifle range,
spacious parade ground, and a, field for ma-
chine gun and mortar practice. The terrain
surrounding Davidson will support any kind
of practical work such as deploy movements,
charges, map work, scouting, and sham hat-
tling.

The R. O. T. C. staff is composed of three
captains, one lieutenant, and two sergeants.
A total of 72 years’ actual, military experi-
ence in training and actual warfare and rec-
ords of the highest are represented in the
staff. A majority of the officers are college
men, and all are active church members,
which is in keeping with the other members
of the Davidson faculty and the ideals of
the college. The officers keep in close per-
sonal touch with the students, Captain
Weems being coach of wrestling, Captain
Elkin coach of boxing, and Lieutenant Beck-
ett coach of the rifle team. |

The U. S. Government has $63,000 worth
000 annually in its upkeep and $20,000 in the |
salaries of the staff. .Jn actual dollars and
cents the facilities total $125,000 each, year. |
not counting the armory building, fields, and
ranges, whose value cannot be accurately es- |
timated.

In summarizing these facts, the R. O. T.
C, Department is found complete in every
detail for teaching all practical and theoreti-
cal work of military science and tactics, un-
der the guidance of capable officers.

NISBET IS ELECTED HEAD

(Continued from page 1)

first time during the 1926 football season,
playing quarterback for the Davidson team.
His headwork and general management of
the team being one of the main factors in
the winning of the championship for the
Wildcats. Wilson is a member of. the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity.

C. R. Pritchett was captain of the fresh-
man basketball team during the 1927 season.
Pritchett was high scorer for the team for
the entire season and was a most versatile
player. He was also prominent in the class
basketball tournament.

FOR INSPECTION

Davidson to Act as
Host to Scientists

Davidson College will be host to the an-
nual meeting of the North Carolina Acad-
emy of Science, when members of this scien- |
tifie®body come here for a two-day session, |
May 6th and 7th. The meeting was held at
Raleigh last year, when approximately 125
of the 274 members attended, and it is ex- |
pected that a like number will be present this
year.

Officers of the Academy of ,Science are
Prof. Bert Cunningham, Duke University, |
president; Prof. F. E, Rice, N. C. State,
vice-president, and Prof. H. R. Totten, Uni- |
versity of North Carolina. secretary-treas- |
urer, The executive committee is composed |
of the president and Prof. J. W. Nowell, |
Wake Forest; Prof. C. M. Heck, N. C.|
State, and Prof. H. B, Arbuckle, Davidson |
College. |

It will be some time before the program
will *e announced by the officers, it was
stated here, because most of, the discussions |
are voluntary, and papers must be filed with |
the secretary before it can be arranged. In
addition to the noted scientists of this state
who will appear before this gathering, it’is
expected that -fiationally known .men_ will |
speak. Four departments are contained in|
this organization—chemistry, physics, mathe- |
matics and biology.
each one,

Although
Tennessee,

Papers will be read on

similar organizations exist in|
Texas, Alabama and Virginia

the North Carolina body claims the distinc-

tion of being the oldest in existence, being
organized over 30 years ago. It is wet con-

fined merely to college professors or students,
which affords opportunity for a wider range
of activity and a more comprehensive dis- |
cussion of the several sciences mentioned.

HAMLIN GARLAND, AUTHOR |

(Continued from page 1)
as the word “Hoosier’ ’is in our language.
Many of Riley’s idiosyncrasies were related |
and his manner o speech and action was
impersonated by Mr. Garland.

Mark Twain was “a_ beautiful
profanity”, according to the writer, and sev-
eral experiences especially one concerning |
the “Memoirs of Grant’? were spoken of.
In accounting for errors that arise in Mark
Twain's stories, the following was quoted!

user of

‘as being a statement which he made late in
\

life: “When IT was young, or younger, |
knew a great many things that were so and
that were not so and in these later days, |
can only remember the latter.”

In speaking of that land “hetween ‘the
settlement and the fighters”, that Middle
Border land, Mr. Garland told, at night, of
the steady westward movement of civiliza
tion, moving in two parallel lines, one, the
skirmish line—the far bordets
of actual settlements

and the lin
the home builders and
in between these two, the middle ground.

The author lecture with the
early lives of people and of the moving of
his father to the West; he told of the trials
and hardships; of the home building and
of the moving on, farther and farther west-
ward. Following the return of fhis father
from the Civil War, they went from Wis-
consin to Iowa, remaining there for a short
time, only to move on to Dakota. Deciding
to take the back-trail, they returned to Wis-
consin, there to re-esttablish the home which
they had left many years before.

began his

Several of his poems and prose selections
were given which the audience greeted with
the greatest enthusiasm of the evening. i

WILDCATS LOSE TO ELON

(Contined from page 2)

Meadows ip 2s222sgo2 Se (0) 1) (0) () (1)
MMCAU Ay: 225225 feos es ee 10,0 0.0
eta lsc eine, ee 627 3.6.27, 14)
xBatted for Glenn in ninth, |
Score by innings: RH E|

Hig 120 010 030— 7 12 4|
Davidson —.--.----- 102 000 000— 3 6 1)
Erors: Braxton, Hoyle, Glenn.

Summary—Three-base hit: Harrington;
sacrifice hit: Crutchfield, Murray 2, John- |
son; double play: Glenn to Black to Craw-
ford to Kugler; stolen bases: Crutchfield, |
Harrington, Woodham; base on balls: off |
Cathey 2; hits: off Cathey 11 with 7 runs in}
8 innings, off Meadows 1 with no runs in 1}
inning; left on bases: Elon 10, Davidson 5; |
wild throw: , Meadows; losing pitcher : |
Cathey; umpire: Brandon.

au)
ui
an rere OT LL tees

Modern smoking pleasure
that never fails.

THE smokers of this age are the most
independent ever known. Accepting
no hearsay, they have smoked out the
facts. ‘They have learned that the
choicest Turkish and Domestic to-
baccos grown are rolled into Camels,
that here is the incomparable blend-
ing for goodness, that Camels simply
never tire the taste.

Camel is the cigarette that never
fails to please the modern age. Re-
gardless of how often you want the
comfort of a smioke, of how steadily
you light @ne after another, Camel

will never fail you, never give you
any but the finest thrill of smoking
pleasure. This is why Camel’s popu-
larity, by far the largest in the modern
world, keeps overwhelmingly in the
lead. As modern taste becomes more
insistent upon choice tobaccos, in-
creasing millions discover Camel’s in-
comparable mildness, smoothness and
mellowness.

If you want the cigarette that’s
good to live with from morn to mid-
night, the one that is the choice of the
modern age, “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.

© 1927

oom.

{r Sssessnnannnanna We wiaww wows rrr}

; Everything a good Drug Store

can supply

| WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

sessssesssse4|

Se

: The New a
f ORTHOPHONIC
. VICTROLA:
Pe a Lai veer The Finest Muateel Teetruman'
And they’re made for col-

lege men,---good looking,
well made, styles you men»
like, the sort you always
prefer, by comparison.

ilmer-Moore
Company :

CHARLOTTE

CREDENZA, $300.00

Prices $95 to $1,000

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE

'213 N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

