: THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927 ii 3

| Assorted List of Books

New Freshman Regulations

Made by

In addition to the freshman regulations
which were in effect last year, the Court of
Control this year has added several rules.
These rules have been added for the good of
the freshmen and the iipper-classmen.

The new rules are as follows:

1, Freshmen shall carry matches at all
times.

2. Freshmen must be in attendance 15
minutes early at all major athletic events,

| and remain throughout the entire contest. -

}

}

3. Freshmen are required to wear the Y.
M. C. A. name-plate until Thanksgiving.

4.. Freshmen must carry to all athletic
contests the megaphone prescribed by the

tches is in effect in many colleges through-
out the country, and is a helpful one in that
an upper-classman will generally give the
freshman whom he stops, the “once over,”
and will very likely know him the next time
he passes him on the campus. It also pro-
duces a friendly, feeling between the upper-
classman and the freshman. When the fate-

Re Ae.
Th ule concerning the carrying of

de
hc

Court of Control

College Property
Greatly ffiproved |

As old Dedilion opened opened its doors for an-
other year, the campus, famous and full of
traditional lore, also began a new era of
growth and improvement. All summer long

are now covered with a fine carpet of grass,
the tress, as a result of their pruning last
spring, are in excellent condition, and a drive

Richardson Field is looking bet-
It is doubtful if any school

tiful sight.
ter than ever.

its ‘athletic field. The “freshman practice
field, too, is covered with grass which will
be the foundation for a splendid turf in a
few years.
| the opening day,
been spent during the past summer in an ef-

TUDOR HALL
FALL SUITS

$29.50 and $35

Styled from a
young man’s

point of
view

Tudor Hall designing and
fabrics introduce you to
the higher standards of
College ‘style, the. prices
never lead you into the
realms of higher mathe-

matics.

At a modest price Tudor
Hall offers excellent mod-
els for young men on and
off the campus. Many ex-
clusive weaves---the kind
you admire at first glance
and keep admiring as the
days go by.

Belk Bros. Co.

Where College Men Trade
Charlotte, N.C.

fort to enhance the beauty of the college
| Srounds, and the prospect is that the coming
months will see many more improvements of
|a varied nature.

| The campus, however, has not been the on-
ly place of progress. The dormitories,
| notably East and West, have been thoroughly
| Tenovated on the inside, and it is needless to.
| say how much this step has done to create
/and strengthen a good impression for the
college.

| ful lucifer is being searched for, the “fresh”
| will grin sheepishly as he goes from pocket
| to pocket, the grin fading to a look of alarm
|as he vainly chases the elusive match; this in
| turn changing to a happy smile as he pro-

| duces one from his left back pocket, where

| he had put it in order not to forget where he | Glover, and “The Public Mind,” by Norm: in | federate scout ;

| had put it.

| The rule ‘concerning the

seater is of utmost importance.

attendance at

When a

lous applause, the fellows feel mighty good. |
| They know that every man in the student
| body is behind them lending their moral sup- |
| port, and more;
| will be there at the end of the game.
|

a material aid in the important matter of
| cheering.

| The name-plates serve to identify the first
| year man, both to his own classmates, and to
| the upper-classmen as well. Names which
are read do not pass so quickly from the
mind as do those which are heard. When
| you are introduced to “Mr. (meaning-
iless jumble”) yow do not know ,any more
than you did when you started. But when
you read the name “Jones, H. A.,” you are at
once very sure that his name is neither
Brown nor Smith.

The Court of Control wants the freshmen
to understand from the very beginning that
they are here to help the freshmen in any
way it is possible, but that they are also here
to punish.a freshman who has broken a rule.
The miscreant will be given some task by
which: he will be made to see his mistake.

Any upper-classman having a complaint |
against a freshman will be required to write |
out his complaint, and hand it in so that the
Court of Control will have something definite
to work on. Everything will be handled in a
businesslike way, and it is hoped that equal
justice will be meted out to both freshmen
and upperclassmen.

WHO’S WHO IN,SERVICE AND QUALITY

CITY DRY CLEANERS

W. L. HOBBS, Prop.

MOORESVILLE,

Represented by
Neely and RECEAYET: 108 West

1. a OF

Six for Five

Will Call on You Monday and ey Nights.

We Strive to Please

come to

HERE’S a reason why more college ane

Johnson’s Barber Shop

THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK

the grounds have been under preparation for |
the school year. Spots that were bare before |

around ‘the historic old “D” reveales a beau- |

in the country has a finer stand of grass for |

As Dr. Martin said in chapel on |
hundreds of dollars have |

|

| Twenty-five new tennis courts are |
under construction at the réar of the campus. |
}

|

| team starts off a game to a burst of thanider- |

they know that every man,
Mega- |
phones are a supplement to this rule, and are }

is Procured by Library

|New Books Piarchased to Supple-
ment Departments

During the past vacation season the David-
son College library has added several néw
and every interesting volumes to its store ot
|books. Such men as Roy Chapman Andrews,
| Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick, Carl Snyder
}and other writers known the wor'!l over are
some of the authors of the new books.

There was very little fiction bought by the
library this past summer, most of the books
| being bought with the idea of filling out vari-
|ous departments of the library. Books on
| the various branches and different lines of
business were predominant. There were,
/ however, quite a few volumes concerning
| philosophy, and several works on chemistry
and other branches of science were bought,
|due perhaps to the rising intevest in things
| scientific.

“Twelve Tests of Character,” by Dr. Fos-
dick, the man who has been characterized as
one of the spiritual, leaders of America, is
written with the same clear vision and com-
pelling sincerity that won millions of readers

for his earlier books, and the topic is as,

broad as humanity itself.

Among the other worthwhile books stands
“On the Trail of Ancient Man,” by
| Chapman Andrews.
scription of a sojourn in the Gobi desert, of
Mongolia, that remote land of painted deserts,
nameless sun-capped peaks, untracked for-
ests jand tempestuous streams, in_ short,

Roy

well to read.
| “Integrity in Education and Other Papers,”
by George Morlin, the president of the Uni-
versity of Colorado,

abroad.

Other such works and other such topics as |
|“The Great Works of Art, and What Makes |
| Them Great,” “The Jesus of History," by |

Angell, are found on the list of new books. |

For the benefit of the few who may not |

know, the Davidson College library was first }
formed in 1841, when it had 231 books. In
| 1860 the library was given a room in Cham-
bers, at which time it had about 2,000 vol-
umes. When Chambers burned in 1921, over
10,000 library volumes were lost. Andrew
Carnegie then gave the college .its present |
excellent plant, and at present the library
| has over 22,000 books, and receives 117
| periodicals.

|

Ticket Booth Given

In making its parting gift to Davidson, the
class of 1927 accomplished a noble deed, and
established a memorial that will stand for
many years as an emblem of love and respect
from Davidson's sons to their Alma Mater.
The new ticket booth which was erected out-
side the new Richardson Stadium is a well-
nigh perfect gift, filling a need that the erec-
tion of the Stadium revealed.
some little brick structure is located half-
way between the entrance to the stadium it- |
| self and the bleacher entrance, thus provid-
ing a central point for the distribution of |
tickets and being at a convenient point for
every one to enter the stadium. The booth is

The completion of this work is eagerly await-

ed by all Bede a since a crying need |
of the college has been t more space for ten- |
nis, a sport that is becoming more popular
|every day. The old courts on the south side
| of Chambers will be leveled off to make way

|for the grass terrace which “will soon be |
| sloping away on that side of the magnificent |

| new edifice.

| Davidson men should be proud of their
campus, its natural advantages and material |
| fixtures. The coming year will witness a}

' still greater and more beautiful Davidson,

| provided that the student body shows. its |

| traditional spirit and enters into college life

| with the idea of building up rather than of |
ts worthy and enduring gift from a class of

| destroying the things that are here for its
| use and enjoyment.

This is a very vivid de- |

book that all red-blooded people would do |

has attracted the keen |
‘interest of the thinkers of this country and |

by ’27 as Memorial

This hand |

|R. O. T. C. UNIT SHOWS BRIGHT
3 PROSPECTS FOR THIS YEAR

Civil War Veteran
Graduated in 1865

Gen. William A. Smith, hero of the War
Between the States, and a graduate of Da-
vidson in the class of 1865, was honor-guest
last April at the fourth of a series of annual
picnics, inaugurated several yearns ago by
members of the Mecklenburg Camp, United
Confederate Veterans, in honor of the aged
Confederate leader.

The picnic was staged at General Smith’s
beautiful plantation home at Ansonville, N.
C., known as “The Oaks,” and was the fourth
of a series of picnics which will continue as
long as General Smith is alive to receive the
homage of his former comrades in gray.
The picnics, according to newspaper accounts,
are much after the fashion of a reunion, ex-
cept for the fact that the guest-lists are more
restricted.

General Smith’s home, the scene of these
intimate and enjoyable feasts, is set back in
a spacious grove, being in size and magnifi-
cence of trees a rare survival of colonial
times,

The home itself is a survivor of the
finer types‘of ancestral homes, now so seldom
encountered,

General and Mrs. Smith met the guests at
ithe large front door of their home and turned
both house and grounds over to them. Long
tables, set on the terraces of the front lawn,
; were set and around these the guest spent
| more than two hours in feast and oratory.
General Smith was seated at the head of the
table and Gen. A. H, Boyden, of the Ist
Brigade, C. S, A., was toastmaster, Among

ord of General Smith and other Confederate
| leaders was the editor of the Charlotte Ob-
; server, Wade H, Harris; Maj. W. C. Heath,
|of Monroe; Chaplain Conrad, of. Charlotte ;
| Shakespeare Harris, of Concord, an old Con-
Capt. John Gormley, of
| Charlotte; and Miss) Irwin Paylor, « of
| Thomasville, assistant to the adjutant gen-
eral of the Mecklenburg Camp. Approxi-
| me ately 15 veterans of the Civil War, their
livauee and daughters were included among
| the guests.

| 2 as SANE Smith was born in An-
{ sonville, N, C., in 1843, and entered Davidson
| College in 1800) He withdrew
to enter the army of the Confederacy, and
was wounded in the service. He returned to
the college in 1863 and was graduated in the
| class of 1865. He was a member of the Phi
| Literary Society during his college days,

-C.E.T.C. Interests
| Several New Men

from school

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
held its first meeting of the year in Shearer
Hall, Sunday afternoon at 1:45. The at-
| tendance was unusually large and included a
} good number of new men. A _ short intro-
| ductory and devotional program was led by
‘its president, Bob Covington, and was fol-
|lowed by a short talk of welcome and ex-
lalanation of the history and aims of the
| society.
| The Training Class is one of the smaller of
| the religious organizations oh the Hill, but
| has a very definite program of service. The
objects of the class are twofold: to study
| Christian Endeavor methods and _probleins,
;and to serve the young people’s societies in
| the church near-by by a series of deputations.
The class offers a cordial invitation to all
men who are interested in this work, and
| feels that it offers ample opportunity for defi-
| nite religious services on the campus.

built in approved style, harmonizing perfectly
i with the nearby stadium and adding a finish-
| ing touch to the outside appearance of Rich-
ardson Field.

As thousands of spectators crowd their
|.way past the booth and on into the field to
watch our Wildcats in their drive for another
championship, they cannot help but notice
the beauty and efficiency of the ticket booth,

true Davidson men.

|
‘| A cordial welcome. is
|
|

men as well as the old

by

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

extended to the new

‘

+

the speakers who eulogized the war-time rec- |

This year promises to ieee ote. the best that the
R. O. T. C. unit has ever known. The com-
petent staff of instructors, a capable body of
cadet officers, and the fine spirit which char-
acterizes the unit as a whole should again
enable us to win the distinguishe1 rating

which Davidson has’ won forthe past two
years,
The staff of instructors are: Captain

Daugherty, who will have charge of the
Sophomores; Captain Elkins, the Seniors;
Lieutenant Otto, the Juniors, and Lieuterant
Beckett, the Freshmen. John A. Otto
has just finished the officers’ training course
at Fort Benning. He is a graduate of Texas
A. & M. College. Lieutenant Beckett 13 still
in the hospital in Washington, D. C., recov-
ering from an operation, but he is expected
back on September 20th. Captain Weems,
who so admirably brought the Davidson bat-
talion to its present standing, is at the Com-
mand and Staff School at Fort Levenworth,
Texas. '

There will be an unusually large R. O.
T. C. unit this year as there will be 27
Seniors, 40 Juniors (the largest group of
Juniors ever electing the advanced course),
155 Sophomores, and 190 Freshmen.

The band will be larger than last year,
with 27 old mey and 24 freshmen. The in-
struments will ‘be issued the latter part of
this week. Mr. Callum, the new music pro-
fessor, will take a special interest in the
band. Due to his instruction the band will
not devote its time entirely to marches, but
will probably play a greater variety of con-
cert music. Under the able direction of Cap-
tain Elkins and Mr, Cullum the band will be
one of the foremost organizations of its kind
in this section, ;

Last year the Davidson R, O. T. C. unit
Was again awarded the distinguished rating,
Davidson was 92.43 per cent efficient against
89 per cent for the preceding year. The
states which comprise the forth corps area
are: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina,
and Tennessee, In this. area there are 15
schools of this type, only six were awarded
the distinguished rating.

There were 21 Davidson men at camp last
summer. The Davidson men at Camp Mc-
Clellan took first place in rifle firing and
third place in general rating for the entire
camp. Six men were chosen the all-
camp rifle team. Two of the men selected
were Davidson men—Lake and Taylor,

Wednesday the organized four company
recruit drill started, with the Sophomores and
Juniors acting as drill masters. The parades
and other ceremonies will start by October
15th at the latest.
| Davidson's military unit has a record to be
proud of and according to the outlook tor
the coming year, the battalion will eclipse
the enviable record of previous years.

tor

DAVIDSON STUDENTS
HONORED

(Continued from page one)
Flora Macdonald College; Miss Katherine
Tighe, of Asheville, N. C. C. W.; and Miss
Hattie Rodwell, of Macon, N. C., N. CC.
W.

Among the other institutions receiving
honorable mention were Smith College, Uni-
versity of Indiana, Yale, College of the City
of Ne wYork, Wellesley College, University

of Virginia, Randolph-Macon College, Harv- ,
ard, Hampden-Sidney, University. of Buffalo,

Cornell, Colgate, University of Wisconsin,
Stanford University, University of Califor-
nia, University of Oklahoma, Mercer Uni-
versity, Agnes Scott, and Northwestern Uni-
versity. :

THREE SENIORS ELECTED

(Continued from page one)

The men who are elected to the board this
year need no introduction to the student body,
for all are Seniors and well’ known on the
campus. Boyce Martin is editor-in-chief of
The Davidsonian, poetry editor of the Cham-
eleon, was vice-president of the Junior class

1°27, and was Junior Week chairman last
year. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon social fraternity. D, W. Hancock is
the editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks.
He was historian of the present Senior class
in its Junior year and was prominent in the
work of his class at Junior Speaking last
year. He is also a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity. W. L, Lingle has been en-
gaged in literary work on The Davidsonian
and the Chameleon ‘ever since -his entry at
Davidson. He was Freshman football man-

ager last year and was chairman of the Com-

,Mittee on General Arrangements for Junior
| Week last year. He is a member of .Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity. All of these men

orary journalistic fraternity.

are members of Delta Pi Kappa, the hon-_.
