THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

Ramsey Leads Competitive Fire First-Class Movies _ |
of Rifle Team in Second Meet

The members of the rifle team have been
working consistently for the past week under
the skillful direction of Lieut. R. C. Beckett.
of the R. O. T. C. department. The work
has centered around the competitive firing
with Oklahoma A. & M. College and the
University of Dayton.

T. L. Ramsey, of the Sophomore class,
took first honors in the past contest, with a
score of 368 out of a possible 400. The next
nine men with their scores are: Webb, J. B.,
360; Vance, S. W., 359; Taylor, C. W., 344;
Harrel, H. G., 352; Gudger, J. M., 351; Len-
non, E. D., 359; Crawford, G. W., 343;
Short T. L., 341; and Cathey, C. O., 340.
This makes a total score of 3,508 out of a
possible score of 4,000. The scores have
been submitted to the Fourth Corp Area
Headquarters, but as yet no report has been
received as to the results of the contest.

The team is engaged this week in a contest
with the University of Alabama and Florida
Agricultural College.

Class Colors Are °
Chosen by Sophs

At a recent meeting of the Sophomore
class, a committee consisting of Glenn Fry,
D. F. Martin, and John Ely, presented three
sets of colors, the one chosen for the class
color being gold and green.

In order to facilitate the selection, the
Sophs had voted that a committee be appoint-
ed by the president to select three color com-
binations from which the class as a whole
would select their favorite. Glenn Fry, John
Ely and D. F. Martin were appointed to serve
on the: committee.

The suggested were orange and
black, blue and white, and green and gold.
Glenn Fry, who is quite an artist, explained
to the Sophs something of* the art. of colors.
He showed why those suggested were good
combinations.

colors

After some discussion, the question was
put to a vote. Green and gold was chosen
almost unanimously.

FIRST YEAR MEN RETURN

(Continued from page 2)
tens. Wake Forest was leading at the half
by a score of 28-16. The Fresh came to life
in the second half and overcame the lead.

The line-up at Wake Forest follows:

Davidson Position Wake Forest
Johnson (9) ------ RUG cess Johnson (4)
Ibnitchett (9) asses 1 yi ec ee Hough

Smith, J. L. (3)--Center
McGavock (5) -.-. RG

Calvert
Jones

Moores(3)) sass Gk ae ae Dorsett

Substitutions—Wake Forest: Harrimon
(7), Faust (2), Marshall (1), Lawning
(7), Weir (2), Wood (2). Davidson:

Christian.

The last game of the trip was lost to
Duke by the score ef 51-41. The game was
fought the whole way. Pritchett,
with 19 points, led the scoring for Davidson,

closely

while Werber, of Duke, accounted for 28
points in this free scoring contest.
The line-up at Duke:

Davidson Positon Duke
Johnson (11) ~--- RF ~--- Councillar (8)
Britohott (19) yeas UB ee Werbef (28)
Serttde), Ie Il, (A) Caitiee Carpenter
McGavock ~~______ RG te: Warren (12)
Moore (4) ~------- LG estes Jangoskie (2)

Substitutions — Duke:
(2), Buie, Lake.
Christian.

The showing of the Kittens on this trip
was fairly good, considering their opposition.

Duke Fresh are claiming the South At-
lantic championship, and have yet to receive
their first defeat. State has lost only to
Duke.

The Fresh were playing without-the serv-
ices of their regular* forwards, Baker and
Mauze, who were unable to make the trip.
McGavock and Moore, playing these posi-
tions, did well considering their lack of train-
ing for them. Johnson’s play was hindered
by a twisted: ankle. Pritchett, with a total
of 43 points, showed the way to the Kitten
team on the trip.

The Fresh will play Bingham Thursday
night and Oak Ridge Friday night. Baker
and Mauze will be in the line-up and the Kit-
tens are out to better their present standing.

Birch, Hawkins
Davidson: Smith, E. W..,

Dr. and Mrs. David Venable Hudson
announce the birth of David Venable, Jr.,
on February 1, 1927 at the Methodist Mis-
sion, Pekin, China.

Pandenic and Eumenean
Plan New Amalgamation

Reports of Committees to be Heard
by Both Societies at Meeting
Tonight

At the meeting of the Pandeinic Literary
Society on February 10th, plans were pro-
posed with the intention that
should merge with the Eumenean Society
into one. These plans were to be placed be-
fore the Eumenean Society on February 17th.

This amalgamation, if passed by both so-
cieties, will take place next Thursday night.
Both groups are at the present time having
fair meetings; however, it was thought that
both societies could well be united into one
energetic and expeditious body. Last year
similar plans were proposed, but the Pan-

this society

deinic Society refused to join, At this same
time the Philanthropic and Eumenean socie-
ties combined.

Cominittees were appointed from both so-
to draw up and
them to the societies at their next meetings.
From the Pandeinic, L. M. MeCuteheon and
H. Arbuckle were appointed. The Eumenean
selected T. G. McCutcheon, R. EE. Kell, F.
Daniels and C. W. Williams.

cieties agreements refer

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS
AGO

By turning the calendar hack one short

decade we find that:

Davidson defeated Elon in an exciting al-
though basketball
what is now the Armory.
parts of which seemed rougher than neces
sary, ended 28 to 19. Two nights later Da-
vidson lost a closely contested and well played
game to the Statesville team, 30 to 28.

Dr. Martin left today to speak at the
First Presbyterian Church, Columbia, S.C.

poorly played game in

The game, some

The class football series moved two steps
nearer to completion when the Juniors de-
feated the Fresh in a hotly contested and |
very interesting game under ideal weather |
conditions. The score was 7 to 0. The sec- |
ond game between the Fresh and Sophs re- |
sulted in a scoreless tie when the
strengthened by the return
seemed to gain almost at will.

A lectures will be given this
week by Mr. R. W. Connor, secretary of
North Carolina State Historical Commission.
He will discuss the contributions of the Eng-
lish, Germans, Scotch, Irish and others.

The program for Junior Speaking has,
after some discussion, beet decided upon and

Fresh, |
of Crawford,

series of

the necessary arrangements made.

The debating finals were held in Shearer
Hall to select the team to represent Davidson
in the debate with Emory and Roanoke, The
question That the United
a policy of universal

was, Resolved,
States should adopt
compulsory military service.

The football finally com
pleted, the two open dates being filled hy
Furman, which will be played November 3rd,
at Greenville, and Wake Forest, November
17th, the place to be decided later.

schedule was

The students and townspeople heard an -in-
teresting address Thursday night by Rev. S.
H. Hay, of Mooresville, who spoke on My
Religion and My Country.

SPEAKING TRYOUTS

Plans for the forensic part of the Jun-
ior Speaking are being made along with
other plans for entertainment during this
festive The prehiminaries for
this phase of the entertainment will be
held on Tuesday night, February 22nd,
according to Henry Powell,” vice-chair-
man of the Junior Week Committee.

The be limited to ten
minutes and six men will be chosen from
among those contesting. Powell states
that some 15 men have already signified
their intentions of entering this contest.
Others will probably be added to the list
before the, try-outs are held.

season,

speeches will

This contest which is the very founda-
tion of this gala occasion has, in times
past, brought forth some of the best,
speaking talent in the Junior Class. Last
year Harllee Branch, Jr., was the winner
with his ably-handled subject of “A)
Newer South.” Don Stewart won second |
place. |

All men who intend to enter this con- |
test should see Powell at once. |

Ds fd
are Engaged by

The picture shows which the “Y"
the students
will be of a kind to make more appeal to the |
student body than they have up-to this time.

will put

on every Saturday night for

Several first run pictures have been engaged
and negotiations for some pictures now be-
ing made are under way.

“Tell It To The Marines,” which was due
to have come here last week, will. be here this
Saturday night.
tioning.

This show needs no men-
All those who have seen it can tes-
tify to its quality and all those who have
not seen it should not miss it.

Next there comes the “Fire Brigade.” This
and "Tell It To The Marines” are the last
of the four big shows which the “Y" recently
secured. These shows are of the expensive
type that rarely come to small towns. The
grade of the shows that the “Y" offers each
week-end varies as the student body backs it.

“The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse,”
that famous. picture that gave Rudolph Val- |
entino his name as “the greatest lover on the
screen,’ will have a reshowing here soon.
This picture stands on its merits and when
we think that besides being the greatest show
of Valentino, it is probably the greatest war
picture yet produced, that is enough to in
Roman Navarro and
Alice Ferry in "A Night of Love.” is just
one® Of, the pictures that have been booked,

duce anyone to see it.

Norma Shearer, in her latest: production, will
also come here soon,

To accompany these good pictures there is
the added attraction of special music. Good
music can go a long way toward making a
good show great. The combinations of good
music and the good shows that have been

booked should make an appeal hard to resist.

Reception is Held
in New Civic Hall

On Tuesday evening of last week the Civie
Club of Davidson received its friends in its

; : : 4 |
jattractive new hall on South Main Street, |
, just recently compelted,

Most of the citizens of Davidson called |
between the hours of 8:00 and 10 p. m., and
were welcomed by Mrs. W. R. Grey and |
Mrs. L. Brady, the ineoming and outgoing |
presidents, and other officers for the year. |
Punch and cake were served throughout the |
period. |

Mrs. EF. J. Erwin, chairman of the finance |
committee, presented the key of the building

to Mrs. Grey, the president.

In accepting |
the building, of which the key was a symbol, |
Mrs. Grey outlined the plans and «purposes

of the club. Both speakers expressed theit

gratitude to those who have come to its aid
in this hour of expansion, Gifts of money
and of equipment and of shrubs for the small
The club had
occupied the room above the drug store for

grounds have been received.

13 years, thus providing a hall where every
Davidson has met
health

banquets, Red Cross meetings, ete., ete.

municipal meeting in
council meetings, clinies, elections,

For this year the organization is divided
into three sections: ‘The school committee,
with Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum as chairman; the
town improvement committee, with Mrs. J.
Moore MeConnell as chairman; the library
committee, with Mrs. G. R. Vowles as chair
man.

MINISTERIAL BAND |

sishop Mikell, of the Atlanta Diocese
addressed the Ministerial Band Sunday
afternoon, on the qualifications needed
in a minster of the gospel.

The meeting opened with President.
Davis in charge.
was first given,

A devotional program
The singing was led by
Pritchett (Junior) then the prayer serv-

ice was led by Pritchett (Fresh) and
Murchison.
The subject of Bishop Mikell’s mes-

sage was “Things that]/men should have
when they enter the ministry.” In his
talk he stressed four main points which
are essential to the successful minister.
First: Personality, a minister must)
have the personality to hold his congre- |
gation together, and to be a leader in the |
community. |
Second: congregation
would endure a minister without man- |
ners. This means not only his manner in|
the pulpit but his manner of living, and
his social manners.
Third: Love of man, a preacher must
be inspired in his work by love and sym-
pathy for his fellow man. a
Fourth: Love of God, and last there
must be a transcending force to drive the
minister on, which is the Love of God.

Manners, no

Let old Squire Pipe be
the judge...

His Honor, old Squire Pipe is unques-
tionably the world’s ablest judge of pipe
tobaccos. Who else is by nature, training
and experience so well-qualified to try a
tobacco and hand down a decision on
it?. . So, in the case of Granger Rough
Cut, the plea is that Judge Pipe’s verdict
be accepted a8 FINAL!

To make a long brief brief: Character
witnesses everywhere have swérn to
Granger’s sterling quality. Experts have
vouched for the superiority of its rough
cut. Chemists have testified that the new
“glassine-scaled” foil-pouch keeps the
tobacco in perfect condition.

Finally, it has been shown that by
using this foilpouch (instead of a costly
tin) it is possible to sell Granger at just
ten cents. On these arguments Granger
rests its case! A couple of pipefuls will
convince Squire Pipe that it is the world’s
greatest pipe tobacco... and any good
judge of tobaccos will confirm the decision!

GRANGER»

ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vac-
uum tin is forty-five
cents, the foilpouch
package, sealed in
glassine, is ten cents.

Tudor Hall Clothes
The College Type

RATCHET WEAVE

A STUDY IN STYLE

$35.00

E LOOKED FAR AND WIDE for a Fabric that
would create enthusiasm emong college men and
those who favored college styles. We found tt--Tudor
Hall Ratchet Weave, A Style-Plus Creation. It is now
being presented in several good looking patterns for

Spring.

BELK BROTHERS CO.

AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

At Eu Hall Thursday, Feb. 24 we invite your inspection
of our New Spring Line.

