8

C. E. T.C. Presents
Helpful Material

Under the leadership of Carl Pritchett,
the Christian Endeavor Training Class

' dred are the world’s foremost acrialists, | 27 yard, making a total of 69 yards in three

3 fi
‘bareback riders, ground and lofty gym- | plays. The next three plays netted five yards

inasts, high-wire artists and super ath-| and then a pass from Grey to Wearn was

!are interested in the development of the

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927
Christian Endeavor Union, it is believed

]

|

| “Y” Column
this study will prove most profitable. | | These are now seen in extensive | good for the remaining 12 yards and touch-

As yet, definite announcements about | A definite date has finally been settled ai dad teoupes Geel display led by ‘down. A line play failed to make the extra

the deputations for next month cannat) for Dr. Vandef Meulen’s services to start. | § Ae a y method | point.
he made Work isigontg.on te complete | He* will Deaauie to, Denil tHe tay cam- |" ST ercatans 2 ee tas i ERIN with} Wofford’s tally came after Wright had
plans for sending out representatives of | paign on November 13th, and continuing | 48 Rikenit Bees and Barnum & Bailey | gotten off one of his best punts and the ball
the class to hold meetings in this section | yntil November ‘16th. Although the | the Ringling . "| was in Davidson’s possession any: two: feet

discussed “Kinds of Programs that a C.
E. Should Have” in its regular meeting
in Shearer Hall last Sunday afternoon.
The attendance was good and_ the
thorough discussions of the subjects
treated afforded a great many new ideas
concerning Christian Endeavor meeting.

All of the various meetings that go to
make a well-organized and well-planned
society were discussed in detail. Those
taken up for close study were the bus-
iness, consecration, prayer meeting, and
the several committee meetings. Special
emphasis. was placed upon the need for
regular executive committee meetings,
the main reason being that in this way
the activities of the society may be full
of pep and handled in the proper man-
ner.

Different ways in which to break the
monotony of the regular Christian En-
deavor prayer meetings were planned,
and valuable suggestions were given by
many of those*present. The use of the
Christian Endeavor papers and publica-
tions were suggested in the preparation
of material for the meetings.

After-the general discussion, applica-
tion of these suggestions to the pros-
pective deputations was made.: Many of
the suggestions offered in the meeting
will be tried at these deputation meet-
ings and the results will be reported on.

The class will begin study in the near
future on the book “Progressive Endeav-
or,” by Amos R, Wells. It is an advanced
handbook for Christian Endeavor work-
ers to take the Endeavorer one step fur-
ther than the Expert Endeavor hand-
book by the same author. Studies on the
subjects offered in this book are being
anticipated with interest and enthusiasm,
and it will occupy the class’ attention
during the greater part of the fall. Inas-
much as the class is composed largely of
society and union officers and others who

announced within ten days.

The class is anxious for as many of the
new men as possible to come and study
the problems of this great young people’s
organization together. Those who are
interested in young people’s work in their
own churches will find many helpful sug-
gestions and ideas in the discussions
every Sunday afternoon. An open invita-
tion is extended to those who wish to
come.

Mr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, was married
to Miss Bernis Bassett, at the home of
the bride, 1104 E. Boulevard, Charlotte,
on June 8th, with Dr. Clay I. Hudson,
pastor of the Pritchard Memorial Baptist,
Church, officiating. Mr. Alexander has
been principal of the Piedmont Junior.
High School for several years, having re-
ceived his M. A. degree at the~Columbia
University summer school. He has re-
cently been granted leave of absence of
a year to attend Columbia University and
complete the work on his Ph. D. degree.
Mrs. Alexander has also been a member
of the Piedmont Junior High School fac-
ulty for the past two years. They will
make their home in New York City while
Mr. Alexander is attending Columbia.

Men may ride on Texas trains in their
stockinged feet. with the full sanction of
the railroad commission of that state.
The decision comes as a result of a pe-
tition from a woman who demanded that
men be prohibited from removing their
shoes, boots or sandals while riding on
trains.

Single—“Does your wife select your
clothes?”
Married—“No, but she picks the pock-

ets.’—Pathfinder.

AT THE T

HEATRES

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
OCTOBER 17 and 18

Norma Talmadge in “Camille.”

WEDNESDAY
October 19th, Esther Ralston in “Figures Don’t Lie”’

THURSDAY
October 20th, Adolph Menjou in “A Gentleman of Paris.”

FRIDAY
October Qist, Richard Barthelmess in “The Drop Kick.”

SATURDAY

October 22nd, Jack

—C*

**TheFinest in

RO

Thurs. Fri., Sat.

Keith Vaudeville

Headed by

Brown Derby Band

The Hottest Orchestra

Theatre

Charlotte, N. C.

—PROGRAM—

Holt in “Nevada.”

a

the Carolinas’’

LIN

Next Mon., Tues., Wed.

Richard Dix

“Shanghai Bound”

_ on the Keith Circuit

A Paramount Picture

of the state, and details will probably be |
jing the Carolina game, the Y feels very

| Dr.

.| ference, and at the same time be mem-

‘fact that Paddock is being brought here

meetings start on the Sunday follow-
fortunate in having been able to secure |
Vander Meulen’s services on any
date. So help make these meetings suc-
cessful, and plan to hear this prominent
man of God.

; CLUE

Just a reference to the Older Boys’
Conference, to be held in Hickory about
December tst. Any who are interested
in leading group discussions at this Ca

bers of a group considering High School

problems, are invited to make the neces-

sary arrangements at once. Drop by

and talk it over with Jim Appleby.

Y
A deputation will be sent to Gastonia

this week, consisting of Camper O'Neal

!ber over the entire length of the mam-

| 1027 plan of extending acts in equal num-

moth main tent. Everyone will be de-
lighted to learn that the bringing of a}
score of European clowns to America has
increased the fun-makers to more than a
hundred.

WHITE ELEPHANT COMING
WITH CIRCUS

Sacred Animal Making Only Amer-
ican Tour With Ringling Bros.
, and Barnum & Bailey Shows

Hailed as the \“greatest feature of all
time,” Pawah, the world-famed sacred
white elephant of Burma is to be present-
ed in the menagerie of the Ringling Bros.
and Barnum & Bailey Combined Hows

and Allan Frew. They will speak to |
young ‘people in the churches and|
will be able to reach a large number of |
young folks in that‘ way. Both these |
men are actively engaged in Y work, and |
together will compose one of the most |
important deputations of the year. |

ey: |
Have YOU lined up. with a Morning
Watch? Theré is one on your hall, and
you will be repaid many times if you
but join in these short meetings that
help so much in starting the day in the
right way. Think it over and meet with
the group in the morning. You'll never
regret it.

PA sa
Charlie Paddock’s much  looked-for
visit will fall on the night’of October 28,
Friday before Homecoming Day. In view
of the activities on the following’ day,
there will more than likely be a good
number of alumni on the Hill, and in
that way a large’ crowd will be. here to
hear this famous athlete. Due to the

under the auspices of the Y and not the
College Committee on Lecturers, it will
be necessary to’ charge 50 cents admis-
sion to hear him. It is not thought that
this is a -prohibitive charge, and at the
same time it will take care of all the ex-
pense incurred.
pa NS

The officers of the Y were very much
gratified to see the large number of
fellows who heard the Hon. O, Max Gard-
ner on last Sunday evening. Let’s keep
working on the Y vespers attendance,
always holding our goal of “600 at Y” be-
fore us. We can do it—just be there
yourself and try to bring some one with
you.

“600
at

Y”

FIVE RING CIRCUS
POSITIVELY COMING

Yep, it’s really true!

Meaning that a rumor heard sometime
ago is now confirmed by the official ate |
nouncement that the Ringling Bros. and
Barnum & Bailey Combined Shows will
Positively exhibit at Charlotte, Monday,
October 24th.

At that time the world’s first and only
five-ring circus will be within easy reach:
of local sawdust fans. With it will come
the only genuine white elephant ever
brought to America. He is “Pawah,” the
world-famed sacred white pachyderm
from Burma, who will be the foremost
feature of a
more than a thousand animals.

The big show is now a third larger
than it was when it last visited this lo-
cality. Enormous new displays have been
introduced such as ninety zebras, caifels
and horses performing at one time on a
mammoth pedestal.
of circular raised platforms thirty-two of
the show's forty-three elephants dance,
tun and perform in unison with the top-
most of the ponderous actors twenty feet
above the ground, Prior to this gigantic
display five herds of elephants appear
in the five separate rings. At another
time tlie rings are given over to five com-
panies-of- liberty horses. At still another
juncture of the program two hundred of
the show’s 800 horses, each ridden by an
expert, are seen in the brilliant ma-
neuvers,

-Of the sixteén hundred people carried

on tour this season more than eight hun-

|

menagerie composed of |

On a similar series |

when the big circus exhibits at Charlotte |
Monday, October 24th.

Pawah is the first of his kind to be |
found in more than three hundred years |
and the only genuine sacted white ele- |
phant ever brought to America. He is |
accompanied by his supreme keeper, Dr. |
S. D. Po Min, and attended by a retinue
of fourteen native Burmese. The present
is Pawah’s only season in America, the
Ringling s<Brothers being under bond to
return him to Burma at the close of the
tour.

Pawahi s one of those rare elephants that
the Buddhists of today and centuries past
have worshipped in the belief that in
their huge bulk repose the soul of Bud-
dha, And certainly is as different |
from those elephants with -which the
public is familiar as day is from night:
His eyes are milk white, set with spark-
ling pupils. His skin is soft and pliable.
His body is white as a “white man” is
white. To quote the French authority,
M. Dussard, he is “as gentle as a kitten
and as beautiful as a Greek: statue.”

This rarest of beasts was found eight
years ago in the jungles of Lower Burma,
midway between Mandalay and Rangoon.
Last summer he was brought to England
under the protection of the British gov-
ernment and in the face of threats from
the Buddhist priests who protested that
his departure from Burma would .bring
dire calamities. More than two million
people saw Pawah when he was present-
ed under the auspices of the London
Zoological Society. The bringing of the
white elephant to America is in further-
ance of the Ringling policy of constant
enlargement. The arenic portion of this
season’s circus introduces five rings in
place of the usual three. The Big Show’s
personnel, numbers more than _ sixteen
hundred people, and nine hundred horses.
A hundred double-length railway cars
are required to transport its ten thousand
marvels, plus a special Pullman for Paw-
ah and his attendants,

he

DAVIDSON WINS.

(Continued from page 1)
Wofford then opened up their passes, which

they continued all during the game, and it
looked at times as though they would be
costly to the Wildcats. A long pass into the
territory of the Wildcats slipped through the
arms of the anxious receiver when he had a
good chance to get away.’ This was one of
the two best chances Wofford had to score.
The Wildcats then held and it was here that
Wright, of the Methodist team, began his
great kicking. He kicked well into the op-|
ponent’s territory and the ball was David-
|son’s on her 20-yard line. Grey used the
| same tactics and a punting duel took place,
Wright having the edge. Near the end of
the half Wofford recovered after a punt had
|; been fumbled and had the ball on the five-|
; yard marker of the Presbyterians, and after
|two plays had failed to gain they. lost the

| ball by way of a miscue.

In the second half Wofford began to look
rather formidable, as Fleming, fullback, be-
gan some tearing drives that penetrated the
thin muddy line, and these, coupled with com-
pleted passes, caused the supporters of the
Wildcats to assume a rather uneasy attitude.

After this spurt was when the Davidson
backs began their sensagional sprints. Da-
vidson took the ball on their own 20-yard
line and Nesbit, who had been making-con-
sistent gains all through the game, took the
oval and with mud flying in his wake, went
through the opposing line of 37 yards. Har-
rison added five yards on the next play, and

| for a safety.

again Dick Grey went around end for another

from her goal line. Grey attempted to punt,
but was rushed and downed behind the line
The remainder of the game
was played on comparatively even terms ‘near
the middle of the field.

The feature of the game was the vicious
offensive play of both teams and a corre-
sponding lack of defensive tactics.. The ball
weaved continuously between the two scoring
zones and plenty of thrills were offered.

Fleming and Wright were the lights of the
Wofford backfield, and P. Dargan played a
good game in the line. Captain Grey, Nesbit
and Harrison were the offensive guns of the
Wildcat machine. Laws, at tackle, played
one of the best games of his career, with
Melton, on the other side of the line, playing
a great game.

The line-up and summary :

Wofford. Position Davidson
Player osceess sees |B) Spey ope ore Arrowood
MeeVee were erUsesce ISD etaase ee Leftwich
Pe Dateaneccessas Goose gerueuln Melton
Kin Ware Ses Se Géntet 2ee25 822 DeArmon
Turbeville -------- RGreseetes McColgan
Rushton ~..2---... Reese So aosne ae Laws
IBROWnh eee esses Re escaaseeece Wearn
Kennedy ~-.------ OB ee sone Wilson
Wright (C) ------ LH Grey (C)
JONes 22202 seas PRU Ci wig sas Harrison
Fleming ..---..._- DBivessceeeeues Nesbit
Score by quarters: 1
WiOttOndi eae s ioe tale ak 000 2—2
Davidsonicsces sen ges2g es 6 0 6 0—12

Substitution s—Wofford: Crook, Williams,

Austin, Kirkley, R. Dargan, G. Brown,
| Moseley. Davidson: Flynn, McConnell,
| Baker, R. McConnell, McEachern, Kell,

Hunt, Matthews, Black, Harmon.

Officials: Referee, Brice (Auburn) ; um-
pire, Kirkpatrick (N. C. State) ; headlines-
man, McIntyre (Mass.).

N. C. PRESS

(Continued from page one)
and Harllee Branch, editor of The David-
sonian, best editor. The preceding year the
State paper was awarded the distinction, and
the two years preceding that The Davidson-
ian received the honor.

O. D. K. TAGS

(Continued from page 1)

been active on the campus in forensic, social,
athletic, religious and military lines. In
forensic work ‘he has been an alternate inter-
collegiate debater, a contestant for the Fresh-
Soph debating medal, and a member of the
Eumenean Literary Society. At present,
Camper is on thé Y. M.°C. A. cabinet, cap-
tain of Company “C,” a track man, and a
member of Phi Gamma Delta Social Fra-
ternity.

Pinkney J. Garrison, Jr., came to us from
Covington, Ga. His life as a student at Da-
vidson, as his honors show, has been one of
energetic and varied activities. His scholas-
tic career is one of forensic, journalistic,
athletic, musical and spiritual achievements.
Through his superior skill as a wrestler he
has won the honor of the captainship of this
team. He is a member of Scabbard and
Blade, honorary military fraternity ; a mem-
ber of the “Y” Cabinet, of the Student Coun-
cil, and secetary-treasurer of the Forensic
Council. He has been secretary and vice-
president of the Pandenic Literary Society;
president of the C. E. T, C.; Magazine staff;
Quips and Cranks staff; subscription man-
ager of The Davidsonian; Fresh-Soph debat-
ing team; cadet captain of the R. O. T. C.
Band, anid member of the Junior Week Com-
mittee.

J. L. Robinson, Jr., from Covington, Ga.,
has risen from the rank of assistant manager
of the; championship football team to the
rank of manager of a potential chamption
team. He is a member of Kappa Alpha so-
cial fraternity, or Sigma Pi Epsilon, hon-
orary physics fraternity. . His popularity has
been shown by receiving the responsible po-
sition of football manager.

Members of the O. D. K. who were chosen
in the spring elections last year include, H.
M. Arrowood, president of the student body ;
B. F. Martin, editor-in-chief of The David-
sonian; Charles F. McRae, President of the~
Y. M. C, A.; W. O. Nesbit, president of the
Athletic Association; W. R. Grey, captain of
the football team; F. Caldwell Withers, pres-
ident of the Senior class; and'W. L. Lingle,
an outstanding leader. ;

a
