4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 24, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
: Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

" Published Weekly by the
Entered at the Post Office ‘of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

Students of Davidson College

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

...-.-FEditor-in-Chief
Business Manager

HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR...
VERNON S. BROYLES...-..

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. L. LINGLE -+-------------------Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTTI -Assistant Managing Fditor
F. C. WITHERS ---------.-..--Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEB --.---....-Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY. -------..-Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOU .-----Exchange Fditor
H. L. SHELBY_. ---Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN --.----Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON-. --Assignment Editor
Be oH) ONS secre cosecceuurscsess ce ee Feature Editor

T. T. JON

meme mo

STAFF

BUSINESS

FE. IL. DOUGLASS ____.......--Assistant Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD... .--.--Assistant Business Manager

JULIAN LAKE___.__. ...Assistant Business Manager

J. A. McALPINE. _____ ------...--Subscription Manager

W. L. ALBRIGHT_._. --.--.-Circulation Manager

Ri SibABERNETHY:: sore ae ee Service Manager
Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KAN

W. TDAVIS JOHN GWIN

JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE

J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT

L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW

TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

A tombstone is the only thing that flatters
aman more than a college annual.

To some, college is just a four-year inter-
mission in the dance of life.
D
Our idea of a total loss is fora young man
to write sonnets to his loved one’s eyebrows,
while she is at home plucking them,
D

Most of the shadows of life are caused by
standing in our own sunshine.

The greatest enemy to progress is. not
Ignorance and vacuity, it is wrong informa-
tion.

THEY’RE COMING BACK

A story carried elsewhere in this issue an-
nounces the concurrence of athletic author-
ities and coaches in a contract, which assures
Davidson of the valuable services of its two
beloved gridiron mentors for another five
years. Students, alumni, and faculty rejoice
in the peculiar good fortune of the college in
retaining the services of two such com-
petent athletic directors,

Rumors to the effect that Coaches Tilson
and Younger would not return to Davidson
after the close of the present college term
are thus discredited. After the successful
manner in which these two men have
handled the athletic destinies of the college
for the past three years, their loss would
have been keenly felt.

Coaches Younger and Tilson arrived at
Davidson in the fall of 1923, when athletics
were noticeably at a low ebb. Davidson
men had begun to speak of athletic cham-
pionships only by way of reminiscing, With
a meagreness of material that seemed hope-
lessly inadequate to cope with that of the
larger colleges and universities of the sec-
tion, the two coaches started on a career
which was destined to land the Wildcats on
the championship pedestal of North Carolina
th four brief years,

Perhaps it was the enthusiastic manner in
which the two mentors took charge of
things, perhaps it was their unstinted devo-
tion to the best interest of the college, ‘—per-
haps it was their willingness to give their all
for the team that inspired the Davidson ath-
letes on to better things. It would be hard
for an outsider to say just what was respon-
sible for the marked improvement demon-
strated by the Wildcats under the direction
of Messrs. Younger and Tilson.

Younger and Tilson have won a cham-
pionship that has brought glory to the col-
lege, they have demonstrated to the world
that grit and courage can overcome the most
discouraging odds, but, what is finer still,
they have instilled the principles of true
sportsmanship into every man with whom
they have worked. Inspiring leadership, un-
bounded ability, untiring labor—those are
the three qualities that have won for
Younger, for Tilson, and for Davidson. |

\

|

_ tinguished, but not one of them has achieved

, 580 over the previous year.

7

AFTER GRADUATION—LIFE!

There is a widespread notion among col- |
lege men that success in college bears but |
slight relation to success after graduation.
The notion persists in the popular mind that
most of the world’s leaders were college
loafers, that most of the great genuises
were kicked out of school only to turn the
laugh on their teachers by their later
achievements.

Thus, it happens, that many students drift
along in college year aftér year—skimming
through—learning nothing except “how to
get by.” They laugh at scholastic failures,
whispering to themselves “Why worry.
When I’m out of school, I'll show these old
foggies what real. success is.” This attitude
of indifference, of laziness and of procrasti-
nation on the part of the great majority of
students is directly responsible for many
college failures,

In the light of this, it is interesting to sum-
marize (as Dr. Glenn Frank, president of
the University of Wisconsin, has done), the
results of a study made by Edgar Shuster, of
Galton Eugenics Laboratory in London.

During the last fifty years, of all the men
who have been graduated in law from Ox-
ford University with less than first-class
honors, not a single man has become a
cabinet member,

, Of the ninety-two first-class men, four |
lave been called to seats in the cabinet.

Besides these four cabinet members, —
forty-two other men out of the ninety-two
first-class honor men have achieved emi-
nence in the political counsel ®f the Bristish
empire. |

Of the two hundred and seventy-one men
who took fourth-class honors, not a single |
man has achieved national distinction in law
or in statesmanship.

Two hundred and twenty-six of these
fourth-class honor men have remained in
the common ranks of the unsung and un-
honored.

Of the men who took second-class honors,
thirty-three per cent have become. dis-

the highest rank in public life.

Of the third-class honor men, only twenty
per cent have achieved moderate distinction.

Of the fourth-class honor men, only
twenty per cent have achieved moderate
distinction,

Of those who barely pulled through, only
sixteen per cent have been heard from in
public affairs.

To put it another way, of the six hun-
dred and thirty-four men who have been
gradyated in law from Oxford during the
fifty-year period studied by Mr. Shuster,
nearly one-half of the first-class honor men.
have become distinguished leaders in’ the
life of England and her empire.

These figures apply beyond the gates of
Oxford. By and large, the loafer in college
does not become the leader in the common-
wealth. The man who makes high marks
in college stands the best chance of making
his mark in the world. The “skimmer” has
learned too well the lesson of “just getting
by”—he goes on skimming through life. |

So many new types of universities are springing
up overnight that a marathon runner is needed |
to keep up with the projects, Right after a sky-
scraper university and a floating university comes
the announcement of an air university. The les-
sons will be broadcast by radio and ‘students will
study as far away as they can tune in. It will be
as free as air, for no tuition, can be charged. You
can start in the middle of the semester, according
to the Los Angeles Times, and quit any time you |
feel your little cup is full. No entrance examina-
tions bar the doors and nobody can be “fired,”
Its campus will be ‘the sun, moon, and stars, and
its commencement will be attended by “the whole
universe.” How diplomas are to be distributed
is not told in the news dispatch. Possibly they
will just “give them the air,” They will use static
for a college yell, and we suppose their football |
will be wholly an aerial game,

Many students at the Texas Agricultural and
College have been helped by one of the most |
unique banking businesses in Texas. It is con- |
ducted by an Association of Former Students and |
in 1926 made a total of 902 loans, an increase of |
Nearly half of the
student body were borrowers upon a strictly busi-
ness basis and at 6 per cent interest. Transactions
during the year involved $58,512.33, an audit of the
books showed. Most of the loans were for one
year.

Two fellowships, one offered by Stanford and
one by the University of California, will be as-
signed each year to two graduate students of
German universities, in accord with arrangements
completed by a citizens’ committee acting under
the direction of the Institute of International Ed-
uation.

Collegiate Chatter

i> (Interesting Bits of News Gleaned from the College Press)

The University of North Carolina has started
a-movement to encourage its faculty and students
to buy and own mora books, hoping that by this
means the state’s reputation as a book-buyer can
be improved. A small general book store, known
as “The Bull’s Head Bookshop,” has been opened
in Murphy Hall under the direction of the English
department, and there students and teachers can.
buy anything from Durant’s “History of Phil-
osophy” to Francis Newman’s “Hard-Boiled Vir-
gin.” A notice on the wall of the shop informs all
newcomers that they may read there in comfort
and leisure any books found on the shelves with-
out obligation to buy. The shop is not run for
profit.

Forty men, nearly all Harvard students, were
placed under arrest, and nine men sent to the city
hospital in Cambridge, Mass., recently as the aft-
ermath of an early morning riot between more
than a thousand Harvard students, their friends,
and policemen.

Campus groups at Earlham College, Richmond,
Ind., are financing a novel movement, They will
send Wilfred Jones, one of their students to Japan
to spend a year—not as a missionary, but as a stu-
dent. So far as is known, he is the first American
student to be sent to Japan to enter a university.

Girls will be barred from. theasecond “college
cruise around the world,” it was recently announc-
ed by sponsors of the “Floating University,” now
on its first tour of the globe, with 500 men and
women students aboard. No explanation was
given for the barring of girls from the second
cruise.

Although they stated. a preference for the
honor system, three-fourths of the psychology
students at the University of Arkansas confessed
by secret ballot that they cheat on final examina-
tions,

When automobiles were fgcently barred from
the University of Oklahoma, an enterprising stu-
dent purchased an airplane thereby causing a
faculty ban on airplanes.

Yale University is planning to build a tunnel
under the campus to relieve traffic conditions.

Three students of Princeton University have re-
ceived Rhodes Scholarships this year.

Football at the University of California earned
nearly $300,000 last year. It was the only sport to
show a profit, the others costing approximately
$75,000 each.

Students at the University of Oregon are skat-
ing to classes, to town and even to dances. Ap-
proximately 700 pairs of roller skates were bought
by them in a single week.

Fraternities of Stanford University plan; to
adopt a system of co-operative buying of supplies
in order to cut expenses. A manager will be ap-
pointed to be responsible for the purchase and de-
livery of all supplies to all fraternities. If the plan
proves successful, the sororities will form a simi-
lar organization.

In response to the request for R. O. T. C. men
to sign up for military basketball at the University
of Minnesota enough men answered the call to
form 38 teams, each squad averaging 8 men and a
manager.

Three children in a school district of 400 miles in
Harney County, Oregon, would be the only pupils
in a school and have their own teacher undef a
bill recently introduced in the state legislature.
Schools are not available under the present system
in any district with less than six pupils.

What---No Junior Speaking?

(‘*Cut It Out’’---Says One Disgusted Third-Y ear Man)

A long suffering class of third-year men once
more faces the disgusting spectacle of “Junior
Speaking,” with all its tinseled gléry and all its
useless expenditure of time and money. Of all
the unnecessary evils in the student system at
Davidson College, “Junior Speaking,” in its re-
vised and up-to-date form, is undoubtedly the
Most outstanding. Its abolition is not only a de-
sirability but a necessity.

Let it be said that the evil does not lie in the
Speaking itself but rather in the social program
built up around it, with special emphasis on the
Saturday-evening program. Therein lies a total
waste of time, money and effort. Originally, Jun-
ior Speaking was primarily an oratorical event
to which the social program was-added only asa
sort of enticing background. That time is past,
and now we find oratory playing a second fiddle,
and an unmusical one at that. The old program,
to which each member added his part with an
oration, is impractical under ptesent conditions.
The present arrangement with each member of
the class contributing only in money and time is
undesirable. :

Why is Junior Week an evil? First, it entails
the expenditure of about six hundred dollars by
members of the Junior class. Part of this amount
is raised through outside sources, but at least
two-thirds of the burden must be borne by the
individual members of the class, or is supposed to
be borne by them. The fact is, however, that in
past years a large part of the class refuses to con-
tribute to the fund. As a result a class often cer-
ries the debts of a happy Junior Speaking to the
end of its Senior year, at which time an additional
assessment is collected from the students who so
thoughtlessly indebted themselves.

This year, for example, the Junior Class finds
itself unable to meet cash payments on the decora-
tions and supplies necessary for the Saturday en-
tertainment. Credit is refused them by the mer-
chants of Charlotte, who have learned from past
experience with Junior Speakings that payments
are slow and uncertain. The present Junior Class
has already been halted once this year because
of outstanding debts incurred by the preceding
class. The situation next year, and the year after
that, will probably be identical.

In the second place, the money is uselessly spent.
This is not meant as a reflection either on the
integrity or the judgment of those who have
handled the funds in the past. It merely suggests
that by far the largest part of the six hundred
dollar quota is used in providing mediocre enter-
tainment for three hundred people for an hour-
and-a-half on one Saturday evening. The least
wise among us will agree that two dollars per
person is an exhorbitant price to pay for such en-

tertainment. Likewise, it is to be remembered
that the Junior Class bears the expenses, makes
all arrangements, and offers the entertainment
gratis to other undergraduates and visitors. A
very generous gift, but totally unwarranted!

Third, the members of the class spend an in-
estimable amount of valuable time planning for
the Saturday night affair. At present more than
twenty men are meeting at least once every week
with the sole object of making Saturday night a
howling success.” Within the month an increasing
number of men will be required to lend their time
and efforts in the perfection of plans whereby an
hour-and-a-half’s entertainment for the “students
in general can be provided. The sophomore hold
their banquet, the seniors their smokers—at which
members of the class gather together and enjoy
the pleasures of fellowship and class spirit. Not
so with the Juniors. They must-spend their time
and money providing amusement for a great mass
of students and visitors, about whom the class, as
a unit, has no earthly reason to be concerned.

In the fourth place, “the faculty and- student
body are not in spmpathy with the Junior Class in
its efforts to stage a-successful Junior Week.
(Perhaps experience has shown them the folly
of it all.) The class is halted at every turn, either
by its lack of permission to solicit ads for the
Sanity Rare, or the refusal of the student body to
attend its functions.

Attention is further called to the fact that by
far the greatest number of students do not re-
main for the Easter festivities. Even members of
the Junior Class depart, leaving the entertainment
for those who care to be amused. This brings us
to the final conclusion that the festivities are car-
ried on primarily by the fraternities, their mem-
bers and guests, with the Junior Class “footing
the bills.”

Other colleges have discovered the utter fool-
ishness of such an event, and they have had the
courage to abolish it. In a recent issue of the
New Student there was published the following
item:: “The Cornell Daily Sun, having found a
tradition on its campus costly, cumbersome and
silly, proceeded -to try knocking it out. Junior
Week was its name, and its effect hollow-eyed,
and expensive. The duty imposed by this week
was that of riotous enjoyment for three full days
and nights, so it appears.” Other schools have :
eliminated similar types of costly entertainment.
The Junior Class at Davidson today has the op-
portunity of ridding itself and its successors of
the most extravagant, useless, and unnecessary
‘evil which any organization or unit on “the hill”
is forced to bear.

Who Will Make the First Move?
