4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 239, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member ef North Carelina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘1S
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Eatered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cente per Copy; $2.99 the Collegiate Year

A for, Pakttoeses must be M2 ag bere? "ou! a
4 , mm. Monday. -
ceive from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief

BOYCE MARTIN .
Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF

A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ging Editor
Cc. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE pee: jate Editor
By COWRDMURS | coc colo cc cous s accede. Associate Editor
Te ATJONBS ss sick. A i Editor
L. ‘CSWADSWORTH occ... 35-5 sake Alumni Editor
R. C. DY Si -Exchange Editor
7
BUSINESS STAFF i
R. S. ra eh aN tbo wieesusacsse Assistant Business Manager
Si Ji AGISONG soot ccs Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL.... -Assistant Business Manager
P. by, Aeon: ------Subscription Manager
Bi Wit DIGKSON sooo nc ice occ S558 Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS.... -Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE. Solicitor
HB. Hi MGCAL Dice cc cs concn cwacncccnccccnwtescasccceans Solicitor
Reporters’ Club

W._H. BAILEY. ‘nan haest President
. L. ELY ce Vice-President
. R. GRAHA -Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI
W._H. BEST W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFN V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON C. M, PRATT
R. F. JAR D. T. STOKES
F.’ W._ JOHNSTON ' W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LON W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

JUNIOR SPEAKING

The Junior Class has taken a step during,
the past week which they will probably re-
gret before the year is over. At a called
meeting it was decided to have Junior
Speaking. It was also decided to have
speaking some tinie during the spring other
than the Easter holidays. The fact that
they have decided to have Jufior Speaking
is bad enough, but to attempt an experiment
which’no other class has ever tried makes
the whole venture doubtful.

Of course it is possible that changing the
date of the entertainments and. perform-
ances will add in some measure to their suc-
cess, but this is doubtful. For one reason,
it will be more expensive since a larger num-
ber of the student body will be here to be
present at the various functions. Then the
present junior class will attempt to put over
something larger than the junior class of
last year, as the junior class of last year at-
tempted to put on something ‘bigger and
better” than the class of the year before and
so on-ad infinitum. And the term bigger
and_better is used in this sense and inter-
preted by the various junior classes as big-
ger expenditures and liabilities.

Junior Week is something added to the
social activities of the school but the price
which is paid for it far exceeds its returns.
Quite luckily the junior class of last year
managed to emerge from the imbroglio with

“a balance on the credit side of the ledger, ut
this rather was unusual since most of the
classes have gone rather heavily in debt.
And it must be remembered that this debt is
usually incurred after the class has paid an
enormous assessment per capita and strain-
ed the class treasury to the limits.

The class is to be congratulated in at-
tempting something new, and despite these
pessimistic predictions, it is possible the
class will succeed and really make Junior
Speaking something worthwhile and enjoy-
able rather than an attempt by each class to
see which one can spend the most money
per year. Too frequently have the classes
forgotten that they must have all their
debts paid before they are allowed to grad-
uate and have awakened in their senior year
with a heavy debt hanging over their heads.
Some of the upperclassmen remember spe-
cific examples of this, and it is hoped that
these reminders will prevent the junior class
from attempting anything beyond their
limits merely for the sake of that intangible
‘something ‘class pride and spirit.”

BROTHER SOPHOMORES

Before the freshman class of this year ar-
rived at Chapel Hill to matriculate at the
University of North Carolina for the'present
session, each member received a letter from
the president of the sophomore class there
‘welcoming him to the university and explain-
ing the brotherly attitude of the entire insti-
‘tution to all new men. The spirit which
- prompted this message is to be highly com-

igaeies

mended. To a new man, this probably
meant more than anything which could pos-
sibly have been done for him.

The old days of hazing and bull-dozing of
freshmen have passed. Naturally there is
still a little light hazing and friendly horse-
play, but the day of meeting freshmen at the
train with paddles has passed away with
peg top pants. The spirit of Carolina in for-
warding this spirit of friendliness between
the upperclassmen and the new men is a
forward step towards the merging of all
men at institutions into a friendly and com-
panionable group.

It is the belief of many that such a spirit
exists at Davidson—that is of course, among
the majority of the students. Naturally in
any group there will be some few who disre-
gard the opinions and rulings of many and
break away from the general traditions. But
there has never been any outward expres-
sion of this from the student body to the
new men. There have always been the
hackneyed welcomes and general talks as
to how glad everyone is that the freshmen
are finally here, etc., but there has never been
a real personal welcome for new men. The
Y. M. C. A. has done much to foster a spirit
of friendliness between the upperclassmen
and new men and have always welcomed
freshmen upon their arrival at Davidson But
som of the men of the new class rather feel
that the “Y” is a little of an outside agency,
a little older than the freshmen, and a little
patronizing. This is in no way a criticism of
the work that the Y. M. C. A. has done for
the freshmen but rathér an appeal for the
entire student body to enter into the spirit
which the “Y” has always had for the men
just arriving. -

Davidson would do well to emulate the
spirit, of her sister institution in regard to
this treatment of the new men. That is,
Davidson should show the new men the real
spirit which surrounds the upperclassmen.
It would indeed be a forward step if there
were some organization which would under-
take this task. Davidson has a nation-wide
reputation for the friendliness of its stu-
dents, but the new man just arriving does
not understand this. He still feels that he
is rather an outsider and not yet within this
brotherly spirit. It will be the duty of the
upperclassmen to make the freshman of fu-
ture years understand that he is really wel-
comed by the men of the other classes and
that he has a real friend in each student here.

THOUGHTLESSNESS

From certain aspects it seems that David-
son students are probably the most thought-
less creatures in existence. This is parti-
cularly true of their treatment of the build-
ings and grounds around the college.

Throwing away a cigarette stub, or chew-

ing gum, might seem trivial as a single ac-
tion but the effect of the whole is rather im-
posing. If one were inclined to be statisti-
cal, he could calculate how many cigarettes
were thrown on the floors of Chambers per
week, how many made lasting scars, how
much wood was burned after these stubs
had been thrown down, etc, But anyone can
readily see the evidences of thoughtlessness
anywhere in the new building.

And it is thoughtless, for any man could
be persuaded to, throw away his cigarette
or chewing gum before he entered the build-
ing, if someone would mention the fact to
him, The average students does not stop to
think of the damage to the floor when he
throws away a cigarette which is still burn-
ingeand will continue to burn for a minute
or So.

If the student would only stop to think, he
would remember that these buildings are
not really his, but belong to the composite
student body of Davidson for several gen-
erations. That these buildings are a sacred
trust, for the use of the students surely, but
not for them to mar and disfigure. Last
year after a certain football contest, signs
were painted on the outside of the buildings
and ruined the appearance for several weeks.
Some of these marks are still apparent
though there have been numerous efforts to
erase them. But there are many students
who are disfiguring the buildings everyday
by their thoughtless acts.

As has been said before, these are trivial
things, but these trivialthings will sooner or
later mar the beauty of the entire building.
A little thoughtfulness will prevent much
of this, for it is hardly conceivable that there
are students here who would do such things
deliverately and maliciously,

AND ANOTHER THING

The game at Gastonia last Saturday prov-
ed among other things that Davidson still
puts out a football team every. year, despite
the fact that certain sport writers insist
that Davidson is nil as far as sports are con-

cerned. But another thing was evident over
there also. And this was the fact that Da-..

vidson sorely needs another song, a real

Open Forum

Ollapodrida

(This department is conducted by the editor for
the benefit of those who wish to express them-
selves in the columns of the paper. All articles
must be signed and turned in to the editor before
7:00 p. m. Monday.)

WHAT PRICE JUNIOR SPEAKING?

Once more a Junior class, immature in their
judgment, ignorant of finances, and excited by
their social responsibility has been swept out by
the undertow of tradition and voted in another
orgy of sleepless nights and dull, entertainment,
Junior Speaking.

In a few weeks a chairman will be elected, in-
numerable committees will be appointed and forty
or more men will wedge one more activity into a
college life now too full, How long must we wait
until enough sensible men can be brought into
one class to veto the foolish tradition of their
predecessors?

The affair was voted in by a small majority and
with only a few minutes consideration. In that
few minutes the class voted away a thousand or
more dollars, an inestimable amount of time and
the good will of the remaineder of the student
body. There is but one class in school, the sen-
iors, who could call upon the Juniors to sponsor
the festivities and after a similar experience it
goes without saying that the seniors would raise
little or no objection.

To raise funds the Juniors will have to dig deep
into their own pockets and then call upon the re-
mainder of the students to attend poorly arranged,
amateur theatrical performances to which the ad-
mission price is but a gift. Even when this has
been done last year’s class was the only one in
recent history that has come out on the right
side of the. ledger and they still have forty or
more assessments uncollected.

A number of Juniors have expressed themselves
as opposed to Junior Speaking, but have voted for
it when a show of hands was taken because of
student opinion or poltitical aspirations. The
Junior class would do well to reconsider and vote
by secret ballot.

Some have expressed the opinion that it would
be a blot on the class to go on record as opposed
to Junior Speaking. Seniors experienced in the
art of Junior Speaking believe otherwise. Jun-
iors might well confer with those who have had
experience before taking final action.

Walter L. Lingle, Jr.

Among other things to wonder about—no
one has mentioned the famous Sacco-Van-
zetti case in the last two or three weeks—
why no one ever hears of George Young
any more—where Lindbergh is now—and
what became of Maitland and Hegenberger ?

Our government’s less warlike attitude to-
ward Mexico and its dispatch in bringing
peace to Nicarauga should be credited, by all
means, to the granting last June of the hon-
orary degree of doctor of laws to Secretary
Kellogg by New York University (whole-
sale and retail. American recognition of
Russia is expected to follow similar action
by Columbia University (wholesale only).

—New Student.

An English professor is requiring his class
to paraphrase, line for line, Keat’s “Ode to
the West Wind.”

We look forward to the time when some
class in the appreciation of art will be told
to break up the original Venus De Milo into
tiny bits, in order that they may find what
kind of stone was used in making it—From
the Pitt Weekly.

Officials of the Big Ten Universities dis-
couraged mass migrations of students to
football games last fall. The University of
Chicago was the first to take measures in
this direction.
ees ____

alma mater hymn, or some similar type of
a college anthem. “O Davidson” is excel-
lent, but it should not be played throughout
the entire game. Another song is needed,
which could_be-played-once-or-twice during
“the contest to relieve the monotony of the
single piece.

Twenty or thirty colleges; have words
very similar to “College Ties” and fifty or
more have a song to the tune of Glorianna,
which some have suggested be a national
alma mater song for all the universities and
colleges in the country. So this song is not
distinctive in the least, people witnessing
the game hardly know for which school the
selection is being played, there being so
many who use the tune.

There is a pressing need for someone to
write a song, distinctively Davidson in its
tone, and played to.a tune. which no other
college uses. There has been a vast im-
provement in the yells used this year, and if

there was another song. which could be,

used the entire spirit at games would be
greatly improved.

‘the chapel period once more.

September the 22nd as other days has come
and passed, the crowds have disappeared and
Chicago has settled down once more to the hum-
drum of life with nothing more exciting than
Scarface Capone and his machine guns. Like oth-
er “I told you so’s”( the: writer picked the winner
but in a moment of weakness and indecision failed
to name him in this column before the fight, thus
missing an editorial coup. Youth once more has
triumphed over age and in turn will slip out of
the picture with the passing years. The age of
the successful athlete is hardly half of “three
score and ten.”

Chicago’s other leading battler Scarface Al Ca-
pone is nearing his age of least resistance by the
gangster’s law of averages. No gang leader in
Chicago has held his position for more than two
years and it is now practically two years since
Capone’s henchmen sent a rain of bullets through
the body of his chief contender. Since Big Bill
Thompson’s inauguration as mayor the illicit
liquor traffic has become more and more un-
hampered and would-be-bootleg kings are arising
on all sides. At present the gang leaders are
living under a truce, but a truce which is enforced
only by the fear of a quicker trigger finger. Dur-
ing the last few months Chicago gangsters have
acquired five more Thompson machine guns by
illegal methods and they will not be used as toys
for the children.

Bulls on the stock market last week stopped in
their mad upward drive and gave way to a few
days of short trading. As a result leading indus-
trials and rails tumbled, dropped off from ten to
twenty points in some cases. “A technical re-
action” said the bulls. “The bursting point of a
bloated market” said the bears. The present bull-
ish tendency started two years ago and since that
time bears have found scant grazing. After two
days of decline the market recovered and started
up the ladder once more but not with the same
energy as a few days before. A rapid decline is
not likely but leading industrials are near their
peak,

A new advertising step was taken by one com-
pany that makes a business of prophesying mark-
et fluctuations, when they took a double page in
a leading periodical last week to tell the werld
by conclusive figures that their prophecies were
correct. ‘The sixty-seven inches which they had
recommended _to their clients six months ago had
risen a total of 1,300 points; not a very good test
of their mystic prowess in consideration of the
rapid advance of the leading stocks. When the
“shorts” regain control some day, they will be
sorely tested to pick the winners. Incidentally
General Motors was not among the sixty-seven.

As someone has said, “There are few people
who will tell you how to lose playing the market,
but there are plenty who will help you for an
eighth of one per cent.”

“Revelry,” the latest in scandal plays, has oper-
ed its season in Philadelphia and lated in New
York. Maurine Watkins, the pretty authoress,
expects an even greater success for it than for her
first play, “Chicago.” In an extremerly thin veiled
way the play depicts the regime of one time pres-
ident Warren Harding, with its graft, oil scandals
and lose government, Naturally an attempted in-
junction was immediately forthcoming. It failed

-to materialize, but Miss Watkins might find some

better subject to commercialize than the folly of
the American public.

W. L. L.

From all appearances, it seems that the
Duke Chronicle is well on its way to gain
again the honor which was accorded it at
the last N. C. press convention. It’s first
issue lives up to its reputation of being the
best collegiate newspaper in the state. The
State Technician also has improved greatly
In appearance and makeup since last year.
No exchanges have been received from Car-
olina yet, but from all appearances, as Jake
Wade*would put it, Davidson seems slated
for the cellar berth. But Mr. Wade’s pre-
dictions have failed to materialize in some
few instances,—so the outlook may not be
SO pessimistic as some would have it.

_ The college as a whole seems to be round-
ing into mid-season form already. Class
meetings, Junior Speaking announcements,
annual notices, etc., are beginnig to fill up
The loss of
such veterans as Don Wharton, Mcllwaine,
etc., is very depressing, however.

_ Under a recent court ruling, cows may walk the
highways of Panama devoid of ‘hed or tail lights,
bells, or othe warning devices.

Tuition in Mountain Home College in
Arkansas is paid with buckets of sorghum
molasses and slabs of home cured bacon.

| te

No poisonous reptiles and few wild ani-

mals are to be found in Japan.

