THE

DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

SOR Re mh Rk eR TY

Thirty-Eight Classes

Group Returning for Homecoming Day

Largest Number of Alumni in .
History of College

1871 ALUMNUS HERE

Alumni Luncheon Proves Big Suc-
cess—Ten States Send Alumni
Back to Alma Mater

“More alumni returned to Davidson for
the Home-coming celebration last week than
- in 1926,” stated Ernest Milton, alumni secre-
tary, in an interview with a Davidsonian re-
porter Monday night. “Not only did more
alumni return,” he continued, “but there were
men on the campus who returned for the

first time in quite a while, and there were]

more alumni returning from longer distances,
than in 1926.”

He revealed the information that alumni
were present from the states of North Caro-
lina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Ten-
nessee, Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia,
New York and Texas, and sfated that it was
the belief of the alumni sfiders that between
four and five hundred former students re-
turned.

Two new features were added this year, he
said, and continued by stating that the alum-
ni luncheon at Home-coming was an inno-
vation and that the identification tags were
used for the first time at Home-coming, al-
though these were in effect last commence-
ment. Members of the alumni council have
stated that it is their belief that these two
things will become permanent parts of the
Home-coming, both of them being a con-
venience to alumni.

“The alumni office sent out approximately
15 class-agent letters,” said the secretary,
“and, this direct invitation from a class mem-
ber. played a part in the return of some of
the men. We believe that more and more
alumni will be reached through this medium,
and before our next Home-coming, we are
hoping to have a letter from one member of
each class, and that the one in 1928 will
supersede any other attempt to bring the
alumni back to their alma mater.”

The alumni secretary was of the opinion
‘that the “Wildcat Spirit” was beginning to
manifest itself among Davidson alumni, cit-
ing the instance of one doctor*who-was up all
Thursday night, and then drove’ 450 miles
Friday and Saturday, reaching Davidson by
11 o'clock. He went on to state that another
car of recent alumni left Atlanta, Ga., at 7:00
o'clock Friday night and arrived in Davidson
at 6:30 the next morning, being present for
all of the exercises.

“There were several other equally inter-

—

Represented in

|Gastonia Alumni
at Lively Meeting

A representative group of Davidson alumni |
from all sections of Gaston County were
present at a smoker held at the Armington
Hotel, in Gastonia, Wednesday evening, for
the purpose of discussing new plans for
alumni co-ordination with representatives of
the alumni office. The Gastonia meeting was
arranged by the officers of the Gaston Coun-
ty Association, under the direction of Mr.
Coit M. Robinson, president, and Mr. Hugh
A. Query, secretary.

Both the alumni secretary and the assistant
alumni secretary attended the meeting, and
spoke to the Gaston alumni of the college,
on its progress and possibilities, as well as
the Alumni Association, and its program for
expansion, A number of members of the
Gaston County Association took part in the
discussion, and offered numerous suggestions
which will be incorporated into the plans
previously adopted by the alumni council.

The Gaston County Association was the
first of the local associations in North Caro-
lina to hold a meeting this year. Three new
Florida associations, recently organized, and
the Atlanta Association, are the only four
of the local alumni groups which had met
previous to the smoker in Gastonia Friday
evening.

esting instances, too,” he said, “and if each
alumnus who attended Home-coming were to
write about his trip, we would have a great
account of the Davidson spirit.” ae

The alumni office is making an endeavor to
get Davidson men to return—men who have
been away for many years, Generally a record
is kept of the lapse between visits, and ‘an
exactexact statement can be obtained. In the
the rush incident to the visit of alumnito their
headquarters, this was omitted somewhat, but
it was seen that one man from a nearby city
returned to Davidson for the first time in 18
years. He had attended a baseball game at
Davidson several yeadrs ago, but had not been
here for such an occasion as Home-coming
and commencement.

Approximately one hundred and _ fifty
alumni registered in the office’ Saturday, and
they, represented thirty-eight classes, from
1871 and including an ex-’28 alumnus.’ It
was the belief of the alumni secretary that
almost exact statement can be obtained. In
sented if all of the alumni had registered.

“We were pleased that more alumni regis-
tered than last; commencement—considerably
more,” he said, in concluding the interview.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Steinway, Ivers & Pond,

Parker-Gardner Co.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decorations
Also

and Duo-Art Reproducing Pianos
Orthophonic Victrolas and

Victor Records

Brunswick Panatropes and Brunswick Records

Geo. Steck, Brambach,

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for

| Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
___ Charlotte, N.C.”

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts

Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

| Wilmington, N.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Rev. Marion J. Murray, '24, was married
to Miss Elizabeth Hall Morton, on October
14th, at Charlottesville, Va. Rev. Mr. Mur-
ray, who graduated from the Union Theo-
logical Seminary in June, is now the assistant
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at
C., where Rev. and Mrs.
Murray are making their home.

Mr. Reginald Lyne Price, ’24, was married
to Miss Jamie Webb, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. James Henry Webb, of Mobile, Ala.,
at the Government Street Presbyterian
Church, on Saturday evening, October 21st.
Mr. Price is associated with his father in the
insurance business at Charlotte, N. C., where
he and his bride will make their home.

News has just reached here that Warren
Cox, ’24, outstanding student, religious work-
er and athlete during his undergraduate days
at Davidson, was secretly married to Miss
Rubye May Dheil, of Norfolk, Va., on Sep-
tember 9th. Warren was in Davidson for
two days on September 21-22, en route to
Johns Hopkins, where he is now enrolled as
a medical student. He made no mention of
his marriage at that time.

Warren’s marriage to Miss Dheil was the
culmination of a romance which was started
in the Orient while Cox was a professor of
chemistry in the Hangchow Christian Col-
lege. Miss Dheil was a nurse in one of
Hangchow’s largest hospitals, and returned
to America at the same time as Warren dur-
ing the early days of August.

She visited. in Mobile after her return to
America, and it was during her visit in Ala-
bama that she and Cox were married. The
marriage ceremony was performed in Pas-
cagoula, Miss., and the wedding was kept a

Alumnus Off for London
to Study Bunyan’s Life

Dr. J. B. Wharey, ’92, Will Write
Book on Life of Famous English
Author

Dr. J. B. Wharey, '92, who for the past
seven years has been a professor at the Uni-
versity of Texas, Austin, Texas, is now en
route to London, England, where he will be
on sabbatical leave for one year. Dr. Wharey
has gone abroad for the expressed purpose of
studying the life of Bunyan, and plans to

write a book about this great writer, pub-
lishing it next year upon the. occasion of
Bunyan’s hundredth anniversary.

Dr. Wharey finished here in the class of
1892, and went directly to Johns Hopkins
University, where he obtained his Ph.D. de-
gree, later studying at the University of Ber-
lin. Before going to the University of Texas
he was a professor at Southwestern Univer-
sity and at Peabody College.

Dr. Wharey was at Davidson”over the
week-end, attending .the Home-coming cele-
bration, and while here was a guest of Dr.
and Mrs. W. R. Grey. He left for New
York Monday afternoon, and will sail from
that point on November 12th. While in
London his addres will be care American Ex-
press Co., Market St.

secret until news of it reached Warren’s fam-
ily a short time ago. It was generally known
by members of both families that Warren
and Miss Dheil were engaged, but it was be-

until after Cox had completed the year’s
work at Hopkins.

lieved that the marriage was not to take place’

M. M. Caldwell is
Dead After Illness

A distinct blow to the members of the stu-
dent body was the death of Milton .Morris
Caldwell, of Wilmington, N. C., his passing
occurring October 18, 1927, after a lingering
illness of several months.

Morris, affectionately know as Bud, was
the son of Dr. M. M. Caldwell, deceased,
a former captain of Davidson’s football team
and a member of the Kappa Sigma fratern-
ity while here. The son entered McCallie
School, Chattanooga, Tenn., to finish his prep
school course, at which institution he was a
real leader. Entering Davidson with the
class of 1929, he retired the following Christ-
mas and finished the year at N. C. State
College. While here he was a member of
his father’s fraternity and a most. popular
and highly beloved student. A brilliant ca-
reer was cut short by his call last month to
the Great Beyond.

Bud was an eafhest, sincere type of Chris-
tian manhood, and his passing has brought
sorrow to many hearts. He is survived by
his mother and one sister, Margaret.

The funeral was conducted at Poplar Tent
Church, near Concord, N. C., Wednesday,
the 19th of October, Rev. John L, Fairley,
D.D., pastor of St. Andrews’ Presbyterian
Church, of Wilmington, officiating. The de-
ceased was a member of his home church.
The Davidson Chapter of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity served as honorary pallbearers,
while active pallbearers were Alex Shepard,
John and Graham McNair, Robert Grady,
Duncan McEachern, George Trask, George
Shepard and Rivers Lawther, all of Wil-
mington.

How will your office look?

TO-DAY in a modern office you
will find these electrical aids:
Addressing Machines; Dictating
Machines; Adding Machines;
Multigraphs; Check-writers; Cal-
culating Machines; Cash Regis-
- ters; Interior Telephones; Card

Recorders; Card.

Machines; Typewriters;

electric devices.

This familiar mark
appears on many
clectrical products,
including motors
time-
labor-saving

that drive
and
office machines.

GE

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Not like this, of course

Yet you will find in it a dozen jobs that
can be done more quickly and e¢ffectively
by electricity—and done so quietly as to
be practically unnoticed. In fact, electricity
has completely revolutionized many office

orters; Time
Recorders; Accounting Machines;
Time Stamps; Clocks; Mailing
Fans;
MAZDA Lamps, and many other

methods.

yoo FATHER probably will
recall the days of high stools,
eyeshades, and evenings overtime,

e e e

But visit a modern office! A thou-
sand letters to go out by four
o'clock. A new price list to all
customcrsinto-night’s mail, without
fail. Enter clectricity. Two or three
people turnswitches,and thefinished
letters come out of an ingenious
machine. Another motion and they
are scaled and stamped. Only elec-
tricity could get that job done.

. ° e

Ilcre’s a statistical job. The reports
are in; thousands of figures to
analyze. Looks like overtime for
fifty clerks. “Certainly not,” answers
electricity, as a button starts the

CHENECTA ;

LECT.

ee ~~
Se WA) Adee <a

motor-driven sorters and tabulators.
Key cards are punched with light-
ning fingers. Electric sorters devour
24,000 cards an hour. Tabulators
add quantities and amounts in jig
time, and print the totals.

Go to almost any bank today. Hand
in your account book. Click, click,
click, goes the electric book-keeping
machine and back comes the book
to you. Five operations performed
in that brief moment. Everybody
saves time, —you, the clerk, the
bank,—when electricity is the book-
keeper.

e e

In the office of to-morrow you will
find “ electrical fingers” doing more
‘work than even to-day. |

210-62DH

C

YORK

EW

