4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

DED BY CLASS OF ‘15
Phe Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Davidson as Mail Matter of
d Class

red he Post Office of
Ente: at the Pos ade

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE SMAR TIN fice ccspescesbcccassdvasaudbes Editor-in-Chief
MiP) CRAWFORD) isch siecs sie ece Business Manager

A. N. BROWN .... Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY naging Editor
Cc. R. E ----Athletic Editor
Wi SLING B feseccicesseuccnduacucspescsene Associate Editor
F. C, WITHERS <............ --Associate Editor
T. T. JONES ....-. aw i ua alta
. C. WADSWORTH ..-... --Alumno itor
k € .-Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY....-____-.. Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON.....-. ---Assistant Business Manager
W.M, POWBLI.. ...2.......... Assistant Business Manager
Bi Xe Carre Gusasneee Subscription Manager
By Wi DICKSON Gio lecanacuscubmuclacuee Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. Gua atic tor
W. _B. McGUIRE. solic: tor
By Hi MeoCALbsuccc tec le Solicitor
Reporters’ Club
. H, BAILEY -----President
Wu yo} By RE ie eae ..Vice- President
i RiGGRAHAMsc: sc ccuccocu deh cae seetetary, Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI
W. _H. BEST W. B. HeQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER
E, S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON C. M. PRA’
R. F. JARRA D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON
Z. Vv. NG W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE BA ILSON

EDITORIAL

COLLEGE CRITICS

Two or three times a year some disil-
lusioned would-be genius raises his erudite
head and brays that all American colleges
and universities are worthless and ruin
every man that enters into any one of them.
These extremely intellectual people insist
that colleges are defeating their own pur-
pose by being merely a gathering place for
some set, a glorified country club or some-
thing of that sort. To date there has been
no one particularly who has declared this
collegiate year that colleges will be the
downfall of the entire race. But if these

‘pessimists run true to form, there should be
some syndicated article or magazine discus-
sion proclaiming this remarkable discovery
some time within the near future.

At least one man has already started the
attack against these men who insist that the
present college is useless.» He managed to
get his assault over before the enemy had
fired his first shot. The man who believes
that colleges are useful and accomplish their
purpose is Dr. W. M. Lewis, recently in-
augurated president of Lafayette Colleges
In his inaugural address he stated that the
allegation that colleges were taking on the
atmosphere of country clubs was false, and
that for the most part colleges stuck to the
academic grove in which they were sup-
posed to run. He also repudiated the argu-
ment that colleges were producing too many
“uniform” men. He insists that the men
which colleges of the present day produce
are men capable of meeting problems, men
who face the life unafraid because they un-
derstand the world in which they live.

Dr. Lewis also brought out the idea that
Lafayette College was being true to the
ideals of the man for which the institution
was named. This is relative to process of
culture, about which Lafayette said, “I read,
I study, I listen, I reflect. and out of all this
I try to form an ideal into which I can put as
much common sense as I can.” It is. this
idea of culture and education for which
many institutions were: founded, and it is
the belief of numerous educators that the
present day college is fulfilling this mission
and task. Naturally there are'a few who
fail, and it is these possibly which are sub-
jected to such severe criticism. But on the
whole it seems that the college of today is
not deserving of the waves of criticism
which sweeps over it.

It is on this general theory that Dr.
Meiklejohn has founded his new college at
the University of Wisconsin. This college,
in experimenting with a new theory and
system in regard to higher education, may
possibly ‘prove faults of the college of to-
day. But its proof will be in mechanical
‘terms, the best system of instruction, etc.,
and will in no way repudiate the principles
_ for which institutions were founded.

In this new experimental school, they are

empting to hav

x

ttempting -¢ ve very much smaller
jes, in an attempt tobe of mort valtie to

the student. This is probably one criticism
which is justified, that students are not able
to obtain enough individual instruction and
‘aid in attempting to solve various-problems.
“Human teaching calls for an expense of
spirit on each individual,” says C. H..Cooley
in Life and the Student, “possibly only when
there are a few of them. The teacher is the
dividend, the student the divisor, and where
there are ‘many, the quotient is routine.”
With many students it is only natural that a
class sinks to. formalism, and there is little
contact with the professor. It is always
possible for the students to know the pro-
fessor in a way, but with large classes it is
almost impossible for the instructor to know
each individual, “The function of a college
teacher divides itself into two not unequal
parts ;” Mr. Cooley continues, “to help half
his students educate themselves and to hin-
der the other half from getting easy
credits.”

In this one point the college critic has a
notation in his favor,—to be trite, one could
quote him the motto of our illustrious nation
however.

There is one place where the critic loves
to concentrate his attack however. This
point is that colleges are the hothed of re-
volt and radicalism, But he must consider
that one individual does not reflect the spirit
of an institution. It would be impossible to
collect a group of men who thought exactly
alike, and it is evident that the outburst of
one man does not represent the thoughts of
an entire body. The criic also insists that
men of genius are held under at a college
and not able to develop properly. But
institutions and genius are by nature anti-
thetical. It is possible that they may exist
together, if they do, both are to congratu-
lated. Usually, however, these radicals’ are
miscalled. genius and others in the neigh-
borhood object strenuously when these are
forcibly ejected from college.

Another favorite point of criticism is that
college education is not. practical enough:
Some insist that students studying prob-
lems theoretically are unable to face the
sithations of life sanely and clearly. It is
also said that what is taught in class room
is never brought head on with some problem

in the outside world. This is possibly true.

in part,.and Dr. Meiklejohn’s experiment
should clear up this situation in part. Con-

. sidered wholly however, one should see that
In most cases it would be impossible to at-

tempt to teach a student how to face each
particular problem which he may face in
after life. It can be readily seen how this
would be foolish for the most part, each
student preparing to live a life distinct from
any other student and an institution at-
tempting to teach them all their own par-
icular life.

This point is one criticism which Dr.
Glenn Hoover, of Mills College, makes. He
says, however, that it-is due to the general
attitude 6f the entire country rather than
insitutions of learning. He bewails the “in-
tellectual tepidity and lack of zip.” He of-
fers the solution, however, saying that “in-
tellectual turbulency and zest is what the
American college ‘needs—what the whole
country needs... . There is in fact, a mild
sort of warfare in the intellectual world, be-
tween the forces of truth and the forces of
error, and it should be the prime function of
college men to introduce some pyrotechnics
into that struggle.”

So all in all, it seems that there are a few
points of criticism about colleges in general,
but none to justify some of the attacks
which have been made upon them. All that
we can ask these critics to do is to know the
situation thoroughly, know the students in
general rather than one or two particular
examples, understand the principles for
which all of these institutios were founded,
then possibly they may not want to make as
many critical remarks as they have been in
the habit of doing.

CONGRATULATIONS
_To the freshmen who pledged to the va-
rious fraternities on the Hill last Tuesday
night, and to the fraternities that pledged
them, we offer our heartiest congratula-
tions. To some men it will be beginning of
a new life, others will take it as they take
everything at the school, merely an organi-
zation out of which they will get something
and into which they will bas nothing. Some
men will be sadly disillusioned, those who
place fraternities among perfect things will
find that they are sadly mistaken, There
are as many faults in organizations such hs
these as there are in anything of which man
1S a component part. There will be lasting
friendships formed, however, close compan-
ionship with a certain group of men is to
be desired, with other groups it is not so
necessary or valuable.

. To some freshmen last Tuesday night:
will be
most fraternities there are two groups. The

a turning point in their lives. In

Ollapodrida

Two weeks ago Mustafa Kemal Pasha, Turkish
leader, started speaking to assembled delegates. 7
week later after thirty-six and a half hours o
speaking intermittently he concluded his address
on the history of his country. Meantime listeners
wept, shouted praises. It was an epic of asa
But one is reminded that in a year his oration will
be but a forgotten document. Lincoln summar-
ized our history in four minutes at Gettysburg, and
his words have lived through half a century.

Frpternity pledge buttons dot the Davidson cam-
pus a3 proud freshmen proclaim their social pres-
tige to the world. From the outside they have
looked upon the secret orders as inseparable
units bound in brothrhood. The real secret of
every fraternity is that only a member can know
of the battling factions within. The fraternity
man values his membership but is fully aware of
the brotherhood’s short-comings, Freshmen with
ennobled ideas have yet to find that out, but will.

One leading designer of airships has <padiohed
planes as thick as flivers. in ten years. The same
designer has perfected a plane which holds its
keel when traveling 15 miles an hour, takes off in
60 feet and descends in 75 feet with safety. A
special wing attached eliminates the possibility of
a tail-spin. One cannot deny the possibilities of
such a plane. :

freshmen are left to decide with which
group they will align themselves. As in all
organizations thefé will be men who will
do a new man good, while usually there will
also be men who are apt to do him harm.
In considering this the freshmen should be
particularly careful and see that he lines up
with the right group, for much will depend
on it.

And to the men who did not receive bids
—Better men than you have gone through
college life a non-fraternity man. Many of
these have done this of their own volition.
There are a few advantages in being a mem-
ber of some social group but there are many
evident disadvantages. This is in no way
sour grapes, but an actual fact.’ Particular-
ly here at Davidson is the line between fra-
ternity man and an independent scarcely
visible. There are any number of excellent
men here at Davidson who are not members
of fraternities. But above all there is very
little friction and no distinction whatsoever
between a man who is a member of a social
group and one who is not.

And there are some possibly who are not
fraternity men because they refused to ac-
cept the invitation extended them. You are
no hero for many other men have done the
same thing. If in your own mind you be-
lieve that it is best not to become a fra-
ternity man, you should be satisfied. One
can readily see why you refused a bid, and
there will be no hard feelings from anyone.
At Davidson a man is a man for his own
qualities and abilities, not for the frater-
nity of which he is a member.

AND THE DAY HAS PASSED

Again Davidson students have proven that
they are worthy of being called gentlemen,
by their conduct during’ the last few days.
The student body as a whole is to be con-
gratulated on refraining from any vulgar
outburst on Hallowe’en night and also for
its courteous conduct on Homecoming Day.

There have been many comments on the
thoughtful treatment of the visitors on the
campus last Saturday. Any man will be
polite if he thinks about it, but the main
trouble lies in the fact that too many are
thoughtlessly rude. But last Saturday ev-
ery Davidson man was thinking of the yisi-
tors on the campus and helped them in ev-
ery way possible. It was this treatment
that called for so much favorable comment.
There is no easier way for a school to earn
an enviable reputation than by every student
remembering his position as host and doing
as much as he can for the various visitors.
On last Homecoming Day there were a few
thoughtless actions which cost the reputa-
tion of Davidson no little bit. But this year
there .were no such actions and each man
was sincerely anxious to aid all those that
he could as much as possible. A

On Hallowe’en night also, the students

-were very thoughtful of others in refraining

from “decorating” the campus or showing
vulgarity in any other similar way. Several
times in the past this regrettable action has
occurred and it has hurt many who were in
no way connected with the case. But this
year there was none of this whatever. True
there was some trash scattered over the
campus, but it was discovered that this was
done by people not affiliated with the col-
lege in any way and that the students were
not responsible.:

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

*

I have just read a highly interesting generaliza-
tion upon the phychology of Americans by a
young British engineer, who was evidently aston-
ished to find that so many intelligent Americans
had bowed in homage before John W. Keely, the
perpetrator of one of the greatest scientific hoaxes
in the history of the world—the Keely perpetual-
motion motor, which was anything but a per-
petual-motion machine. The young Englishman
declared:

“Tt is a peculiar psychological fact that among
a people so energetic and hard headed as the
Americans,.every imposture, depending for its
success upon mystery, should find multitudes of
believers—it may be because of ignorance and im-
pudence, or it may be that much learning maketh
mad, but at least all Americans agree in being
mystics of the very first water—American geese
are always swans, and really Keely gets a good
deal of attention.”

It is hard for one to get the full effect of the
biting sarcasm contained in the above quotation
unless one knows something of the Keely hoax.
John Keely was a good carpenter, a_ talented
mechanic, but a better talker. He was not highly
educated. With a claim to have discovered a new
force in mechanics which was to work wonders,
he succeeded in inducing a dozen engineers and
hard-headed American capitalists to organize a
Keely motor company in New York in 1872, and
to subscribe ten thousand dollars to begin con-
struction of his machine. In 1874 he demonstrated
the finished motor before a small crowd of Ameri-
cans in his home-city, Philadelphia. Among the
expedients resorted to in exploiting a scientific
fraud, mystifying lingo is one of the commonest,
aitd in this Keely was an_adept. Instead of call-
ing his machine a “motor,” he called it a “vibra-
tony-generator;” in a later demonstration it be-
came a “hydro-pneumatic-pulsating-vacu-engine”
and changes in nomenclature were being rung
continually—always vague, delightfully general,
and suggesting unlimited possibilities. When his
stockholders became wary, Keely declared that
he was at last at that crucial stage, lacking just
the one slight adjustment which, in all such cases,
proves the insurmountable bar to final achieve-
ment. His “generator” now became a “liberator”
which would disintegrate air and release an
“etheric force of eyclonic strength.” Spectators
Saw a point of water poured into cylinder work
wonders, A guage showed a pressure of more
than fifty thousand pounds to the square inch—
great ropes were torn apart, iron bars broken in
two or twisted out of shape, bullets discharged
through twelve inch planks, by a force that could
not be explained—but, all the time Keely continued
his ballyhoo, In his exuberance Keely declared
that with one quart of water he could send a
string of cars from Philadelphia to San Francisco,
and propel a steamship from New York to Liver-
pool and return on a single gallon. His technical
terms were baffling and bewildering, and inten-
tionally so, “Molecular vibration,” “sympathetic
equilibrium,” “oscillation of the atom,” “etheric
disintegration”’—they came glibly from the lips
of the carpenter to build up credence among the
growing band of American believers. It was not
until after Keely’s death that the fraudulent nature
of his scheme was exposed. Complicated mach-
inery, hidden away in a cellar, was discovered to
have kept the machine running—apparently by
compressed air—but, certainly the pint of water
had done nothing more than keep the machine
washed. This remarkable~ trickster for twenty-
five years had duped the experts and the great
mass of American people, who never stopped to
think that his pretentions might be Smpostures.

One is reminded of the Cardiff Giant, excavated :
in Oonondaga County, New York, by a party of
workmen digging a .well for one Mr, Newell.
This giant figure of a man—lying on his side and
distorted in limbs as if in pain—was carefully
exhumed, and pla¢ed on exhibition at the Newell
place. By charging a small admisson fee, Mr.
Newell became wealthy enough to take his “giant”
on a tour of the nation, exhibiting it in New York,
Boston, Chicago and other places. A circular de-
clared that “distinguished men in all departments
of science have journeyed from far and near to
examine, wonder and theorize over it, among them
such names as—(Here followed a list of eminent
scholars including ‘the name of President White
of Cornell University). All America marveled,
but believed that the giant was the figure of a
hyge prehistoric man, Newell prospered until it
was discovered. that the figure had ben made at
Fort Didge, Oowa, of a great block of gypsum, so
large that it could not be transported to the rail-
way station forty-five miles away and as a result
Part of the stone was cut away giving the distorted
appearance to the figure—that it was carried to
chicago where a (German Stone-cutter gave if final
shape, that it was then dotted and pitted all over
with minute pores, that it was-then shipped to a
place near Binghampton, N. Y., and finally
brought to Cardiff and buried in 1868—to be ex-
humed a year later and put on exhibition through-
out a credulous America. oR

; ie w
