4

_. THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MARCH 10, 1927

—*:

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
’ Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

vidson College

Published Weekly by the Students of Da

“Entered at the Post Office of Davidsofl as Mail Matter ot
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

...-Editor-in-Chief

HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR Sai
--Business Manager

VERNON S. BROYLES..-..-.._-.--.-.

EDITORIAL STAFF ‘

W. L. LINGLE Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTI ssistant Managing Fditor
F. C. WITHER Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEB -Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY- Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOU --.---Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON. -Assignment Editor
P, F. JONES....... --..----Feature Editor

moreno

BUSINESS STAFF
E, L. DOUGLASS.-_-_-.-.....-Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD. .--Assistant Business Manager
--Assistant Business Manager

. A... McALPINE..
L.. ALBRIGHT...
S. ABERNETHY..---.......-..

---Subscription Manager
--.-Circulation Manager
...Service Manager

a LAKE...

R

J Reporters’ Club
Dea a ONES I 4
A. N, BROWN

C, R. LAKE.......
BAILEY

peg Z peeenodeoneenresident
on----+--s-+---~.-----.----Vice-President
posta Secretary-Treasurer

- P. Me

W. H. J BRYDE
TYREE DILLARD B. F. McQUEEN
J. lL. ELY W. K. PRITCHETT

J. R. GRAHAM B. WILSON
W. R. WEAVER

R. C. GRADY L. C. WADSWORTH

R. H. KANE OHN MORIARTY
J. P. MCKNIGHT : :

EDITORIAL

It’s funny with all the bad weather and flu
and everything, how suddenly happy and
smiling some of our underclassmen, became
when the announcement was made last Tues-
day morning that spring elections would be
held next-week. Everybody speaking, every-
body flattering everybody else, everybody so
accommodating—ain’t it a shame elections
can’t come but once a year.

BAD PUBLICITY

Thirty-six Harvard University students were
recently hailed into the Cambridge police
court to answer charges of disorderly conduct,
following a midnight. melee and street battle
with policemen, A, Lawrence Lowell, digni-
fied president of the University, member’ of
the Harvard Board of Trustees, and prominent
alumni of the college gathered in the over-
crowded court-room to hear the nauseating de-
tails of a rough-and-tumble set-to between
police and students, which led to the arrest of
the Harvard rioters. en

Newspapers and magazines throughout the
country have “played up” the spectacular de-
tails of the fracas and the subsequent police-
court trial. Editorial writers have varying
opinions as to who was to blame for the affair,

Some of the editors have even’ been willing to |

excuse the Harvard students for what they be-
lieve was nothing more or less than a public
demonstration of “college spirit.’ The re-

corder who heard the case evidently felt that

the rioters had yielded to “natural collegiate
impulses,” and dismissed the whole affair with
slight fines, for only a few of the more bois-
terous revelers.

The fact remains, however, that the thirty-
six student have reflected considerable dis-
credit ‘upon themselves and their alma mater.
In an age of enlightenment, it is regrettable that
college men should be permitted to break the
laws, disturb the peace, and prove themselves
generally unruly, with no more severe punish-
ment than a night in jail—where perhaps they
are enabled to sober up a bit before facing a
kindhearted judge. When men and women

reach college they are no longer children—|

they are adults. They should be dealt with as
such. American colleges cannot justify the
vast expenditure of time and money necessary

to educate a horde of hoodlums and law-
breakers.

The throwing of eggs and bottles, the over-
turning of a police patrol, and the breaking of
doors and windows no doubt proved an enjoy-
able outlet for the buoyant spirits of the Har-
vard collegians, but their vandalism is neither
to be overlooked nor excused. Our legal codes
provide just junishments for such exhibitions
of lawlessness and a law ,appearing on the
statute-books should’ be enforced without fear
or favoritism. Laws are not made to be broken
by college students, and the sooner college men
understand that, the better their training for
citizenship will be. It is high time judges and
police officials were demanding obedience td
the laws by college students as well as by the
gther subjects of the state and community.

'y

| COLLEGE CYNICS

“The prevailing impression, especially among |
the mentally immature,” says the New Repub- |
|lican, “is that the only means of gaining rank
as one of the intelligentsia is to become a
lchronic knocker.” Nowhere is this assertion ;
more axiomatic than among college students, a
large number of whom spend their time and
‘talents in a futile effort to imitate the
|Menckens and the Nathans.

One picks up a college*newspaper or a col-
‘lege magazine and finds it full to overflowing |
with the amateurish criticisms of freshmen and |
|sophomores, who term themselves “Youthful
| Doubters.” What these amateur cynics over-
look is that it takes quite as much mentality to
;comprehend and appreciate an existing insti-
| tution, or to fairly appraise the worth of an in-
dividual, as it does to parrot denunciations of
| whatever is and theorize perfection either in
\institutions or persons. The time has come, ,

| good word for traditions and institutions which
|are a part of our social religious, and political
| inheritance, than it is to point out: their fail-|
| ings.
|
|

| . .
|too, when it 1s much more original to sav a|
|

Despite a new reaction toward conservatism,
|the campus Mencken sprinkles his conversa-
|tion with phrases, now become bromidic, about
\“hoobs,” “morons,” and “Babbitts.” He scorns
leverything and everybody in his own com-
|munity, hoping to gain a reputation for super-
\iority and originality. Our own campus is not

| without its proportionate share of these aspir- |

ling, but totally ineffective college critics. Lack-
ing a. wholesomeness of mind and spirit, they
Set in to criticize others for the same narrow-

‘Iness of vision and a meagreness of intellect,

| which they themselves possess.
| Existing traditions and institutions are of no,
|value merely because they are old, but the

fact that they are, old proves that they have
'grown up in the past and have stood the test

-jof human experience., The world progresses

lonly through innovation, but it was the wise
| Washington who warned against “entering too
lightly upon innovations.”

Our youthful doubters should not overlook
the fact. that if a thing is not worthy of respect
merely because it is old, neither is it worthy of
respect merely because it is new. .The faults
of that which exists are quite naturally more
apparent, because in operation, than the faults
of the untried, which if their operation might
be sure to reflect those same imperfections of
human nature responsible for most of the im-
perfections of the existing social order. |

There is no excuse for intellectual inertia and
mental stagnation among college men, They
should always be looking for the really beau-
tiful, really worthwhile values of life and
human nature. But, they should guard against |
an impulsiveness which will lead them to over- |
throw the tried’and true merely for the sake Of
an adventureous exploration into the realms of
the untried. Criticism, of the better sort, is
always valuable—chronic cynicism is never
useful. |

|
VALUE OF THE VOTE |

Announcement that annual spring elections |
for the choice of student-body officials ig to be
held during the coming week should remind all,
students that the privilege of voting in these
elections entails a responsibility which cannot |
be shirked. The student-government system

| efficient leaders will alwa
| rity of administration. |
| The recent vote to select the winner of the)
| Norris Athletic Trophy vividly demonstratéd
}a tendency among a large number of students
to ignore the importance of casting their vote
,in all student body polls. In an election which
should have been of universal interest to all the |
students, less than one-half of the members|
of the student body voted. As a result, it will)
be necessary to run an entirely new election
at a great cost of time and trouble.

| It is to be hoped that the coming student |
body elections will meet with no such lack of
interest. The student who fails to cast a vote |
is usually quickest to criticise the man who,
wins the election. He is never satisfied with |
the way things are going, he never lets an Op- |
portunity pass for criticizing the men who are |
in charge of student affairs—and, yet, when he |
is given an opportunity of exercising some)
choice or supervision, he inevitably shirks his |
responsibility. |

This inertia on the part of the great mass of |
students is capitalized by those candidates who |
depend upon political bickerings to win them!
office.

Let every student cast his vote for the can-
didate who most deserves the office, who will
perform his duty in the most efficient and faith-
ful manner—and when he is elected, let every

man in the student body back him in whatever
he attempts to do for the best interest of the

ys result in a. medioc-

{that question.

ibe

at Davidson will never be stronger than the}
officers selected for its administration. } In- |

| read.

college and the students.

No Such Negative Freedom

An Address By Alexander Meiklejohn

arts as a subordinate branch of the great Universit
undergraduate course. The new college will be wate
the world. The Davidsonian reprints Dr. Meikeljohn
endorse al that the author. has to say .

EDITOR’S NOTE—The following address will.be of particular interest to students and educators
in view of the recent permission granted to Dr. Meikeljohn to conduct an experimental college in liberal
y of Wisconsin. i
college, a student will study Greek, Roman, and English civilisation cach for an entire year during his

In Dr. Meikeljohn’s experimental

hed with a great deal of interest by educators all over
’s address without chnges, and does not necessarily

The outstanding problem is this—it may best be
stated in the form of a question—Can the average
young American be liberally’ educated? Can it be
done? And it doesn’t seem that there is very much
doubt about the answer. The answer so far is that
he can’t under existing conditions, That question
seems to be a rather serious one for this reason:
Our whole scheme of life in America is based on the
pre-supposition that the young American can be
educated. Wa have supposed that America is to be
the home of educated persons, and we have devised a

scheme of government and devised a scheme of life}

based on that presupposition, that young Americans
can be liberally educated and that for this purpose
the college primarily exists. I think then, really, the
task which faces the American college is to answer
In one form or another, all colleges
are facing this question, and rather desperately. Can
the college do the thing which it is expected to do?
Can it give a liberal education?

Merely for the purpose of getting the subject under
discussion, I shall give a definition of what a liberal
education is,
making up another one today. One means by a
liberal education the process of so informing and

Mtrainingvand inciting the mind that it will go forward

steadily on the road to understanding of the life to

which it belongs; so informing, and training, and in- |

citing a mind that you can count on it that that mind
will travel, will go a certain way, will keep on going
that way as long as it lives. If then we ask, is the
average young American being established on the
road, so that you can count on it that he will travel
the road. of attempted understanding as long as he

lives, we shall have to admit that the American col- |

lege today is not in any considerable measure suc-
ceeding in the thing it is attempting to do. As Dr.
Duggan suggests, it is not true that there are going

Lout from our institutions today _in_any considerable |
measure streams of understanding into the life of)

America.’

That fs~not the way in which colleges are known |
If you want the prize exhibit, we |

by our community.
have our alumni.
standing ?
telligence? I don’t think that you can say this. But
there is one thing you can count on, one that you can
pretty sure of, whatever else you
about the alumnus: he does not read books. He may
read other things and do other things, but he does
not read books. He is not interested in that sort of
life. And what is his attitude toward his college?
What does he understand the college to be? I think
very largely he claims to regard it as a place of sen-
timental loyalty, of comradeships, of friendships, and
fun and pleasure. College loyalty is of the most un-
intelligent things that could be imagined in connec-
tion with an institution of learning. The belief in
each college of the gospel that the college js the

Are they on the road to under-

very best in the country is a strange thing in an in-|

stitution of learning. I don’t think that anyone
could honestly say of an American college, if one
looks at its alumni, that tltey are established in the
way of understanding. I think rather one would
say that as soon as they get out into the life beyond
the college, they are caught up into something else.

We're

in America

But then, I think we should be fair to ourselves |

and ask why we are not more successful. We may
say that it is because the colleges are in America.

For the most part America is a very hard country in|

which to teach, As Mr, Duggan suggests, America
is very busy about a great many other things. It is
pretty hard-to teach literature in schools to children
who come from homes where a good book is never
It is pretty hard to teach philosophy in a
country with no taste for meditation in its social
life. America is interested in other things. America
has a social scheme which has very little recognition

'of what the way of understanding is. A second dif-

ficulty is that our school system is as yet not ready
to give the proper preparation for college work. It

has been hastily constructed and is as yet in the’

preliminary stages of its development. Our college

teaching must be unsatisfactory until our school prep- |

aration can be better given.

If then we agree that America is a hard place in|

which to do good teaching, we must be fair and ad-
mit that America intends to support teaching and
does so with great enthusiasm. The difficulty is not
one of intention, but one of understanding. America
has a great belief in education; it has faith in educa-
tion and wants it, but just what it is that it wants is
not very clear. Our typical expression is “Culture or
bust.” Here it is “understanding or bust,” and I
think that we ought to look at both sides of this
situation. America is determined to have education
and is willing to pay for it. The money that is pour-
ed into the institutions of learning is almost scanda-

Making definitions in this field is a_
| favorite indoor sport with me and I had the fun of

Are they settled in the way of seeking in- |

may doubt |

lous. One of the greatest difficulties in teaching and
administration is that so much of the teachers’ and
administrators’ time must be given to deciding what
to do with the money we get. If we did not have so
much money, we would do better teaching. Ameri-
can people are not withholding money. There is
enough money and enough enthusiasm. Yet, the
whole situation is rather unfavorable because Ameri-
can people haye not yet reached the point of sophis-
tication, nor reached the point of social stress and
strain which demands intelligence. It is at present
easy to get on, but some day our life is going to get
| serious, we are going to grow up, and then better
| college teaching will be done.

If this is our external situation, what from the col-
lege point of view can be done about it? There is
only one thing that is essential in making a college,
and that is the teacher. The great difficulty, which
is now present in the American college, and I say
this as a teacher, is that of getting proper teachers.
America is too busy with other things to allow any
considerable part of our talent to go into teaching.
It is very hard in. this civilization to draw into the
teaching profession the talent and the power which
is needed for that profession. We must find some
way of building up the quality of the teacher in the
American college today, and the only radical way of
improving it is that of securing better teaching mate-
rial. There is another difficulty with our teaching
too, namely, that ourseteachers have been trained un-
der a. bad. system. We are not only bad stuff, but
we have bad training. We have been trained under
a system which does not give Knowledge or under-
standing; we have been trained under a scheme of
education during these last 25 or 35 or 40 years, a
scheme of specialized study, from which a large un-
derstanding has been slipping away. To put it
frankly and flatly, one of the greatest troubles with
our teaching is that we are trying to get liberal un-
derstanding through the teaching of men who them-
selves in a very large measure have not been trained
in the way of liberal understanding. We have been
trained in specialties, in this or that line of work, but
our general training has not been one of liberal un-
| derstanding, it has been one of technical scholarship
and one of pursuit of technical subjects. Until this
has been overcome, we will not have liberal under-
standing or liberal teaching.

No Negative Freedom
| If I may turn.from teaching and go to the side of
{the student. Presupposing that America were a
| country which admitted of liberal training, which at
| present I do not admit, and suppose our teachers
| were ready and equipped for the giving of a liberal
"training, which only in a measure do I admit, then
the question comes.as to what you are to do with the
student, in order to give him a liberal training and
get him established in the way of liberal studies.
From that point of view, it seems to me that the
situation can be summed up in one sentence. We
must find some way to put him into a community of
learning, a community that does not admit other
|a community which has learning at its heart, learn-
ing at its center, a community that is unified by
learnnig, a community that does not admit other
forms of unity as a plan of organization. I am re-
minded of what Woodrow Wilson tried to do at
'Princeton.. Woodrow Wilson said, these boys are
bound together in all their social relationships, but
have no intellectual ties. From this point of view
I want to attack a notion which is very often ad-
vanced by students.

Students so often say that. what they would like
to have in a college is freedom, to be themselves, to
do as they choose, each to go his own way, freedom
| from interest® from requirements, individual free-
dom. I ma as much committed to freedom as any-
one, and yet I am quite sure that no college or other
institution can be organized on the basis of freedom
in this negative sense. There are very definite
limitations under which freedom can be given to the
membership of a social 'group. It is possible only
where the freedom which each man takes is of such
character that it contributes to the freedom of every
|other member of the ommunity. Freedom is pos-
|sible in a community only when all the members of.
the community are so disposed in mind and so
equipped in intelligence that the action they will take
when free shall be such, not only that it will not
interfere with another ,but will contribute to the
freedom of every other; when every member has the
same purpose in his mind. Separate freedom is pos-
sible in a group of people only when that group of
people has something which dominates every mem-
ber of the group, when the membership of the com-
munity and every member of the community has a
sameness of obligation, only when the whole thing is
dominated, controlled, obligated, ruled by some cen-
tral purpose; and that is true of a college as well as

(Continued on page 6)

