~ THEDAVI

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDS

ON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 24, 1927

No. 11

Duke Blue Devils Meet ’Cats in Final Battle

Football Field for Final Time Today
Tee |

Six Letter Men From 1926
Champions Included

WEARN ALREADY OUT

Most of Graduates Are Sons of__
North Carolina—Other States
Claim Five

When the game ends this afternoon it will
be more than the end of the season for the
Wildcats, for then 13 men will be through
with their life of service to the team. Some
have made their letter, some will make it this
season, and the rest will not make a letter in
football but will be content with a conscious-
ness of service well spent.

Of these 13 men who make their final bow
in the Davidson uniform, six are letter men
of last year and the year before last. Practi-
cally the entire first-string backfield will be
graduated—Dick Grey, Mutt Nisbet, and
Charlie Harrison. From the line, Hugh Ar-
rowood, Fats Laws, and Jim Grey, of last
year’s letter men, will be lost.

The other seven men who will be lost to
next year’s team are Lewis McColgan, Piggy
Wearn, Dunc McEachern, Paul Maulden,
Pat Harmon, English McGeochy, and Camp-
er O’Neal. Piggy Wearn, diminutive end,
gave his last in the Carolina game, when he
was carried off the field at Kenan Stadium
with a broken leg.

Three backfield men found among the list
of those who will be missing next year when
the initial call is sounded for football practice
are, Captain Dick Grey, halfback, anl alb
state star; Mutt Nisbet, tMback, and Charlie
Harrison, halfback, leaving only Ed Wilson,

(Continued on page 2)

Three-Fold Hieeus ti
Commended by Speaker

Charlotte Rector Brings Message at
Vesper Service

The Reverend Dr. Walker, rector of St.
Peter’s Church, of Charlotte, gave an able

. and stimulating address at the “Y” Vesper
services Sunday night, November 20th. Dr.
Walker came in the place of Bishop E. A.

Penick, who was expected to speak here, but |"

who: was called away by an unforseen cir-
cumstance.

As his text Dr. Walker took the fifteenth

verse of the eighth chapter of Luke: “And
that in the good ground, these are such as in
an honest and good heart, having heard the
world, hold it fast, and bring forth fruit with
patience.” Dr, Walker developed this topic
by using the thought that honesty of deed
and thought is the true foundation upon
which the edifice of our character is built and
without which that character would be like
a building without a solid base. His speech
was in substance:
_ Honesty in business involves the carrying
out of sincerity in its entirety. However,,
honesty for a Christian has more to ‘it than
the commercial side, and is measured in
greater figures than dollars and cents, for the
Most necessary requisite is for Christ’s fol-
lowers to be absolutely sincere in heart and
deed. Thus, Christian honesty includes hon-
esty with ourselves, and with our God.

Honesty with ourselves means clear and
direct thinking to a conclusion. We may not
think correctly, but we can think honestly.
There may be three conditions within us that
keep us from clear and direct thinking. They

(Continued on page 6) a

National Record is
Held by Freshman

The intelligence tests conducted recently
among the members of the Freshman class
revealed some interesting facts, most notable
of which was M. W. Norfleet’s score of 215
points out of a possible 220. This score
shatters the world record of 214, held jointly
| by D. H. Howard, of Davidson, and a stu-
dent at the University of Washington.

The tests as a whole resulted in scores

“|time during the spring.

higher than the average, being 15 points high-
| er than the average of last year’s Freshman
class. Many students in this class scored
around and above 200 points. Very few fail-
| ed to make respectables grades ; consequently
| this class with a high general result and nar-
| row range shows up extremely well.

Intelligence tests were introduced into Da- |
vidson’ College through the efforts of Dr. |
Hood. The new requirements for Freshmen
was first placed under the Psychology De- |
part ment.of Education, with which work it
is more closely related.

Yearly tests have revealed gradual upward
trend in the marks made by Davidson en-
trants. This fact, added to the showing made
this year, speaks well for the system of selec-
tive registration now being attempted in
order to admit only students capable of pass-
ing college work.

(Continued on page 2)

Win I. R. C. Bids

Four men, three Juniors and one Senior,
were bid this week to the International Re-
lations Club. These men were chosen from
a field of ten who were asked to write papers
on subjects of their own choice concerning
international politics and history. The men
chosen were B. W. Dickson, ’28, whose paper
was entitled “The Decline of Bolschevism in
Russia ;” W. L. Dumas, ’29, who wrote “For
a Better Understanding Between English
Speaking People; T. E. Hill, '29, writing on |
“German War Guilt;” Fred Ratchford, 29, |
whose paper was about, “Italy Today.” These
men are to:be initiated Friday, November 25.

The International Relations @lub is a na-
tional organization having chapters through-
out the United States. Its purpose is to dis-
cuss and create interest in intetnational
policies and current history. The method of
choosing members is according to merit. A
group of any desired number of men are
chosen and requested, if they are interested,
to write a theme on a subject of universal
interest. From this group a certain number
of men are chosen by the excellence of their
submitted paper.

The Davidson chapter consists of 15 mem-
bers of the two upper classes. Seniors: H.
B. Arbuckle, Jr.. W. B. Bradford, J. M.
Akers, C. C. Trabue, F. D. Daniel, Tyree
Dillard, President, J. P. McKnight, D. W.
Hancock, and B. F. Martin. Juniors: J. R.
Covington, M. T. Gilmour, R. C. Grady, J.
R. Graham, E. R. McConnell, W. K. Prit-
chett.

The Sophomore contingent will be added
on the spring bid day.

Tt has been a custom of the club to obtain
speakers of international reputation and send
them on a circuit of the different sub-organi-
zations, Last year a German, member of
German’s War Board, spoke in chapel. The
club expects to procure another speaker some

Thirteen Men Represent College on

Juniors and Seniors—|—

TURKEY DAY

OPPONENTS

Duke Backfield

Duke Line

Mountain Institute to
Receive Student Funds

Elect Officers at

Forensic Meeting

At the annual meeting of the North Caro-
lina Intercollegiate Forensic Association, No-
veinber 5th, at High Point College, High
Point, N. C., the list of officers for the com-
ing year was headed by Henry Powell, of
Davidson, as president of the association.
Among the other business transacted at the
meeting was the setting of the time and place
for the annual oratorical contest. Davidson
was chosen as the place and the time was set
for the late March of the coming year.

The association is composed of Wake For-
est, Elon, Guilford, N. C. State, Lenoir-

| Rhyne, Davidson, High Point College, and!

Atlantic Christian College. The students of
these college who are interested in forensic
matters and who belong to forensic organiza-
tions form the active members of the asso-
ciation. The oratorical contest is the chief
feature of the activities of the organization,
and is usually the object of a great deal of
interest and attention. Practically all the
schools in the state are members except the
University and Duke, and with the entrance
of Duke, the contest this year will probably
prove to be even~better than usual and will
attract a great deal of attention in the foren-
sic circles of the North Carolina colleges.

. One man from each school can compete in
the March contest. These men are chosen
from preliminary try-outs held at each
school. The winner of the state contest com-
petes in a sectional contest, from which the
winner goes to the national contest. The
ptizes for the winners of the North Carolina
contest are two medals: a gold one for the
winner, and a silver one for second place.
Last year, the gold’ medal was won by
Obervitch, from North Carolina State. He
came out victorious in the sectional contest,
and took first place in the national contest.
This is another reason for. interest in the
North Carolina orators, for the state holds
the national prize at present, and many think

(Continued on page 3)

“Y” Cabinet, Orphanage, Schools
and Hospital at Banner Elk Are
Selected as Recipient of Con-
tribution

At a recent meeting of the “Y” cabinet a
decision was réached which will, according
to the officials, be of great importance in its
program for this year. The cabinet decided
that the money donated this year’s mission
campaign will be given to the Christian in-
stitutions connected with the Banner Elk
Orphanages, in the mountains of Western
‘ North Carolina.

This decision was made in view of the re-
| turn from China of Warren Cox, who has
| been supported for the past four years by
, the Davidson student body. Cox was situated
at Hangchow, being an instructor in chemis-
j try in Christian College. The “Y” Cabinet
found it necessary to find another cause
which was both worthy and in need of as-
sistance from the local association.

A deputation consisting of Jim Appleby,
Charles MéRae, Julian Lake, Boyce Martin,
Howard Arbuckle and Carter Rowe, went to
Banner Elk to survey the needs of the insti-
tution. A favorable report was made and it
was decided that the “Y” would help support
the work there. The institutions at this
place are: the Lees-McRae Institute, which
is a girls’ preparatory school; the Plumtree |
Boys’ School ,the Grandfather Orphanage,
and the Grace Hospital. These make up what
is recognized as the greatest mountain mis-
| sion project in North Carolina. Grace Hos-
pital is reputed to be the finest hospital to be:
found in the mountain districts anywhere in
the United States.

Lees-McRae Institute was founded by Ed-
gar Tufts, Sr., whose place as supervisor
was taken at his death by his son, Edgar
Tufts, Jr, who is a prominent and popular
Davidson graduate of the class of ’22, and
who was initiated in the local chapter of
O. D. K. last spring. :

The money sent by the Davidson students
will, among other things, be used to establish
a scholarship fund for the mountain boys.

(Continued on page 2)

Richardson Field Scene
of Last Game Between
N. C. Conference Teams

Result Will Decide Position in
Lower Bracket

CAROLINA CHANGES DOPE

Davidson Men Listed Among In-

jured, But Ten-Day Rest is Aid
to Squad

The final curtain will be dropped on. the
1927 football season, on Richardson Field,
this afternoon when the Davidson Wildcats
engage the Duke University Blue Devils in
the annual Thanksgiving game. It will be a
fight in the lower bracket of the Big Five
series, as both teams have been eliminated
from the championship race.

The vaunted Blue Devils who set the
woods on fire in their early season encount-
ers, suffered a setback in Saturday's game
when the University of North Carolina
downed them by a count of 18-0. Likewise,
Davidson got off to a good start this season,
but has had a reversal of form for the past
three games.

Duke was doped to win from the Tar
Heels, but their greatest bet, Jankoski, was
stopped dead in his tracks in this game, and
the remainder of the team coud not bear his
burden. The Tar Heels, carrying on a spirit
that they opened up against Davidson, ran
rings around the Methodist team.

The Wildcats have had a large list of in-
juries during the present season that has
hampered their style to a great extent. Pig-
gy Wearn, Wildcat end of small stature,
along with Ed Wilson, quarterback, are the
latest additions to the list. Wearn is out for
the season and Wilson has been out of prac-

(Continued on page 6)

Chairman Appointed for
Junior Week Activities

Members ,of Various ‘Committees
Chosen Soon

Looking to a successful Junior Program in
the spring, Mac King, president of the Junior
class, has appointed the chairman for. the
various committees. Each chairman will
select his committee within the next’ few
weeks and a definite plan will fill the outline
for the Junior festivities.

After abandoning the extravagant customs
of previous third-year men in staging an
elaborate and expensive program, the class
of '29, having carefully considered the ques-
tion, have struck upon a plan which shows
radical innovations over the former programs.

Members of of the class selected as chair-
men are as follows: Bob Covington, Dra-
matics; Bob Kell, Reception; W. K. Prit- 5
chett, Oratorical ; and Raymond Lake, Junior MY
Week Publication. Nelson Myers, Secretary
and Treasurer of the class, is chairman of the
permanent committee on Finances.
~ The prospective date for the Junior gai-
eties is April 27-29. The oratorical contest
will be held in Shearer Halk on Friday eve-
ning, the 27th. Saturday afternoon a base-
ball game will be played on the local dia-
mond and immediately following this a recep-
tion will be held on the front campus, with
the faculty, student body and visitors as
guests.

The most interesting part of the Junior
Week Program should be the dramatic per-
formance in Shearer Hall on Saturday night,
In all probability three one-act plays will be

(Continued on page 2) ¢

