THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

We may be down, but we're never out.
That old proverb has always, fitted the Wild-
cats, and this year is no exception to the rule.
Most of the sport writers and most football
fans who are not directly connected with
Davidson have in all probability placed the
Wildcats in the cellar for the 1927 season
and forgotten them. The Wildcats still have
a chance, however, and until there is abso-
lutely no chance to make a comeback, they

-:- Sport Talk -:-

Sophs Defeat Freshmen
For Class Championship

Five Straight Victories Give Sophs |
| Wildk:ttens Score First But Unable

-Updisputed Title

As a brilliant climax.to a successful season

will be fighting and making somebody else | of inter-class basketball, came the Sopho-

realize that they‘re not out of it.

The Blue Devils have a mighty good team , champions.

|

|

mores’ hard-fought but decisive defeat of
the Freshmen, 48-43, for the honor of class
Five successive wins for the

this year, but when they mect the Wildcats | Sophs against no losses, cinched the cham-
next week, they’re going to meet another! pionship for their class before the season
good team, a team that will be in better | actually closed.

shape, will be fighting harder and will be

|
|

For the first quarter, both goals were well

functioning morg efficiently than it has for| guarded and very few points were scored.
several weeks In other words, the game| Each team played carefully, and hard, very
next Thursday is going to be a mighty good | few substitutions being made. The end of

one, and some of the dopsters who predict

|
|

the first quarter, the Sophs had a. small mar-

that Duke will win by several touchdowns | gin lead. The Freshmen came back strong
maye be in for quite a surprise and upset. in the first part of the second to run up a
Several of the Wildcats will be playing their | lead of eight points. The scores sea-sawed
last game for Davidson, and our prediction | back and forth during the half, the Sophs
is that they will do some playing that has | finally coming out on top.

seldom been equalled. Watch out for Dick
Grey on next Thursday !

|

McAllister, of the Freshmen, opened up

| strong in the last half, scoring once for the

Sophs. Before his startled’opponents could

What has heen the cause of the Wildcat’s | "cover, McAllister more than made up for
losing so many games in the last few weeks | his mistake by scoring for the Fresh, one,

and by such a ‘large score?
of the team? It certainly is not the fault of
the coaches. Where then is the cause of the

|

Is it the fault | two, three. Throughout the whole game, it

was a fight for points, Pritchett leading the
Sophs, and Rusk, McAllister and Shephard

trouble? In our opinion, the main trouble-is | doing good work on the other side. A final,

in the student body.

The members of the | Well organized spurt in the last of the game

student body have not had near as much pep | gave the Sophs the game, and the champion-

this year as they had last year. It is true
that we haven’t as good a team this year as
we had last year, but if the student body had
backed the team as well this year as they did
last year, we would have won more games.

Tt has long been a known fact that a Da-
vidson team with its student body behind it,
could often beat a better team without as
much spirit. The team this year, though as
has been said, not so good as last year’s team,
has done its part, and the lack has been on the
part of the student body rather than on the
part of the team, Every team must have a
slump sometimes, and possibly every student
body must. Well, the Wildcats have had
their slump and it’s time they’re coming back.
On the other hand, the Blue Devils have been
winning almost continuously this year, and
it’s about time for somebody to bring them
down again. Watch that game next Thurs-
day. The Wildcats may lose, but if they do,
it will not be by a very large score and their
opponents will be mighty glad when it’s over.

The score of last week's game would tend

to make things look worse than they really |
The Tar Heels won |

were for the Wildcats.
27 to 0, but they didn’t have any easy job.
The Wildcats fought hard and on two occa-
sions took the ball to within one foot of the
Tar Heel goal and then were not able to put

it over. The main trouble seemed to be the |

inability to break up the passing attack of the
Carolina team. Most of the gains made by
Carolina were made on passes. The Wild-
cats tried more passes than the Tar Heels
did, but were not able to complete them.
Again we say, watch those Wildcats next.
week. They made a good many mistakes in
last week’s game, but they will be corrected
before next Thursday, and the Blue Devils
had better watch. out. .

The Freshmen also lost their game last
week, They fought hard and did their best,
but were not able to overcome the strong
State Freshman eleven. The Wildkittens
have not shown up so well this year, but sev-
eral members, of thé team have done good
work and deserve much credit. “After the
game between the Wildkittens and the Blue
Imps, the reporter who covered the game
stated in his comment on the game that, al-
though the Wildkittens were defeated, that,
nevertheless, three members of their back-
field, Goodykoontz, Pope and McCall, gave
some of the best exhibitions of good football
that any freshman players had ever shown
on that field. These three men, together
- ‘with’ several more, have shown unusually

good form this year and-will no doubt make
' @ name for themselves in football circles be-
four years here are gone.

ine of Wright and Ditson
». and Goldsmith
fdware and Sporting G

ship.

Gardner, Johnson, Baker and Mauze did
the defensive work for the Sophomores.
Johnston also was death on shots from
around the fifteen-foot line. The regular
combination of Pritchett and Moore, though
late in starting, was hard for the Fresh to
stop.

Runners-up to the Sophomores for inter-
class honors, were the Freshmen, coached by
Ben Wilson. The Freshmen lost ‘by only
two-games, both to the Sophs, and were in
the race to the last.. The Juniors and Seniors
were not so fortunate in their games because
of lack of men. Pat Crawford was the
mainstay of the Juniors, and Kugler and
Ohseik for the Seniors. McAulie, coach of
the Sophomores, had a mass of material to
choose from and was able to run in fresh
players with great success.

The squad of the winning Sophs, with the
respective positions of the men, is as follows:

Forwards—Pritchett (C), Moore, Mc-
Gavock, Miller, Orr, Anderson.

Centers—Johnson, Gardner, Halverstadt.

Guards—Baker, Mauze, Smith, Heefner.

Georgia and State
Remain Undefeated

Since the game of the 12th there are only,
two teams in the Southern Conference which
have neither defeats or ties against them.
The lucky ones are, Georgia, who won her
fifth Conference game when she beat Clem-
son 32 to 0, and N. C. State, who played a
non-Conference game Friday.

Vanderbilt caused Tennessee's fall from
grace with a 7 to 7 tie.

Virginia’s Cavaliers, who seem to have
taken a new lease on life, beat Maryland

‘| 21 to 0.

Kentucky decisively whipped V. M. I. to
the tune of 35 to 0. Bove ‘

Florida defeated the Crimson Tide of Ala-
bama 13-to 6 for the first time since ’22.

Standing of Southern Conference teams is
as follows: :
Wn. Lst. Td.

Lst. Wk’s Opnt. Team

Clemson Georgia ------ 5 0 0
LS: U; Georgia Tech. 5 0 1
Duke* N. C. State _. 3 0 oO
Vandy . Tennessee _.-. 4 0-1
_ Tenn. Vanderbilt -.. 2 0 2
Md. Virginia ~..-- 4 3 0
Alabama. Florida ~--.-- 3 5225-30
Florida Alabama -_--- hr eemecoed
Va. Maryland ---. 3 3 0

| Ga. Clemson -.... 2. cmon O
Ole Miss. -...2 2 0

V. PY I. W. & L. -.--- 2.5 20
W.& L. B's | Rei (Sea ky AEA AO |

; Spalding, Reach |

a |State College Freshmen

Conquer Wildkittens by
Margin. of Seven Points

to Hold Lead
PASSING FEATURED

Davidson Fresh Stage Comeback in
Last Quarter, But Lose Ball
Before Scoring

An exhibition of passing was shown by the
Wildkittens last Friday when they bowed
before the N. C. State Freshmen team, which
can be well described as sensational. The
passing combination of Estridge to Fraley,
for Davidson, was the distinct feature of the
game. Although the North Carolina Fresh-
men took the measure of the Davidson Frosh
19 to 12, the game was a good. one, exciting
and well played.

The Wildkittens scored first after a re-
covered fumble, then Fraley passed to Mc-
Call for 30 yards and a touchdown. State
immediately came back, Kerr tossing a 20-
yard pass to Furtago, who raced 35 yards for
a touchdown, Edmundson kicking the extra
point. In the second period State again tal-
‘lied, recovered a fumble on Davidson’s 32-
yard line, and after a long march Wright
plunged over the line for a touchdown. Again
in the third period State made a sensational
march of 57 yards, MclLawhorn scoring.

The Wildkittens came back fighting in the
last quarter and swept the State Freshmen
off their feet with an aerial attack. The
Kittens marched to State’s yard line, com-
pleting three passes for 43 yards, but lost the
ball when they passed over the goal line.

Taking the ball a few moments later, an-
other series of passes started, netting 45
yards; Farrel plunged over for a touchdown.
The total march was for 60 yards, David-
son completed a total of nine out o eleven
passes for 118 yards, but State led in first
downs, thirteen to seven.

Wildcats Train Hard as

Blue Devil Game Nears

Annual Turkey Day Game Promises
Many Thrills

One more station and the old Wildcat train
will have finished this year’s tour. But my—
what a stop this last one is going to be! Of
course, everybody knows that Mr. Jimmie
Dehart and Company, from Duke Univer-
sity, will vie with the ’Cats for Turkey Day
honors, and everybody realizes that this scrap
witt-determine whether or not the ’Cats will
occupy the Big Five cellar this year. In spite
of the recent reverses, decisive as they may
have seemed, the Red and Black is far from
the end of her rope, and Monk will give the
Blue Devils a fight that will long be remem-
bered. Davidson will be doped to lose by
several touchdowns, for her ‘team appeared
woefully weak against the other Big Fives,
while Duke has shown a wonderful drive,
great aggressiveness, and splendid team work
throughout the season. But fellows, don’t
forget this—Davidson is most dangerous
when she appears least powerful, and for
years, fans have thrilled again and again as
admittedly weaker Wildcat teams have swept
over the favorites, maybe to a victory, maybe
to a tie, but always fighting. Watch out, you
dopesters. Strange things happen in this old
world, and the dope bucket is likely to go
sky high when the Wildcat claws the Blue
Devil.

This fall has seen Duke University come
into the limelight with’one of the South-
land’s strongest elevens. Dehart had’ the
material shoved at him, and hé has made the
most of it. A heavy, fast, hard-charging
set of forwards, all experienced men, and a
number of smart backs have given the sons
of Duke something to shout about. , This
superman (according to the sportswriters)
Jankoskie, with his bullet-like plunges, is a
holy terror to opposing lines. Sam Buie has
suddenly blossomed forth as a passer par
excellence, while Adams, Hatcher, Bolich,
and others are backfield men of a high cali-
bre. Warren, Kistler, Jones, Brummit,
Thorne, are line stars. Dehart’s charges
have played strong teams and the games they
have lost were by slim scores. State’s won-
derful passing game, engineered by Mc-

Wildkittens Pos'tion State Fresh
1 24 gore (0) eae RE: Do brcsutinacee™ Tucker
IPAKG: eo ee occas 1 Cp pipiens _Manushak
Patket en eons ) EX Cee a tags Ae McNeill
Mason -..--.-. Center 255524273 Stout
Auburn Miss.A.&M.-. 2 2° 0
Ga, Tech. L: S.'U, ----. 2 2 1
Furman* Si Gitee seers 2 3 0
Tulane Sewanee —_-.. 1 3
V. M. I. Kentucky -... 1 4
Ky. VeeMe Tce. 1 4
Sewanee Tulane -..... 1 5
Davidson* N, C, --...--- 1 5
Miss.A.&M. Auburn ..--- 0 5
*Non-Conference teams.
BIG FIVE SCORERS
Janoski, Duke ~--. 15 0 93
Warren, State —__ 42
Adams, Duke ___- 36
Goodwin ,State —- 36
Grey, Davidson —__ 36
McDowall, State — 26
Cox, W. Forest —-- 25
Childress, State = 18
Buie, Duke —_.-_- 18
Adams, State —-_- 14
Flynn, Davidson -- 12
Nisbet, Davidson_ 12

Young, Carolina __
*Capp, Carolina ._
James, W. Forest_
James, W. Forest_
Outen, State —.__
Wearn, Davidson -
Harrison, Davidson
Ward, Carolina —_
Farrell, Carolina —
Lake, Duke
Lepo, State
Crum, State
Hunsucker, State —
Hillingsworth, Dke
Hackney, W. For...
Foard, Carolina —.
Lassiter, Carolina.
Jackson, Carolina.
Connelly, W. For...
Jordan, State ....
Kelly, Duke .....
*McConnell, Dav.
Whisnant, Carolina
Gresham, Carolina
' “Scored safety,

SOCOM KR eR eee HR ee He eB RE ee EB OCOR NNNNNWHLEUAAN

Sseccooso So SSCS SCSOSSOSOSOSOONNGOSOSOOSCOCOOOH COSCO

‘ -_

~-NNOHOOCOSOCOCOCOOSOSO OCC OSCOSOKFP NNO OCOOCOOCONACKHNWOSCS

Dowall, was the only thing that saved the
| Techmen against.Duke, and many fans still
believe that the Devils have a better club than
State. We'll have to hand it to our coming
opponents—they have some team.

| Now as to the Wildcats. It is probable

1 that by Thanksgiving Day, McColgan, Mel-

ton, Wilson, and the other cripples will be in

1 fairly good shape, enough so to play. Dick

Grey is due to play a bang-up game, espe-
| cially because on that day he will play ina
Wildcat uniform for the last time. That
sterling flankman, Hugh Arrowood; Jim
Grey, a fighting ’Cat if tltere ever was one,
and “Fats” Laws, all-around linesman, are
outstanding forwards who will close their
gridiron careers Thanksgiving Day. Charlie
Harrison and “Mutt’ Nesbit, two of Young-
er’s best threats, will ring down their cur-
tain, as will “Piggy” Wearn, scrappy little
end. Because most of these boys are playing
their last game, we look for them to put out
as they never have in the past. Davidson is
always a scoring threat and Thanksgiving
, Will be no exception. If the coaches can
provide a defense against the passes that have
| spelled defeat in every sone of the recent
games, Davidson will stand a fine chance. If
the Red and Black line can hold Jankoskie,
the battle will be half won. If—well, what-
ever the outcome, look for eleven scrapping,

Foil RG Hatcher
Covington ....... 12) Rees Cee Burdell
Johnson ....._-__ ) ee areas Furtago
McCall QB Kerr
David RH - McLawhorn
| Pope LH Wright
Fraley FB Edmundson
Score by periods :
State Fresh .-2.-...-___ 7 6 6 0-19
Davidson Fresh -.-----... 6 0 0 6—12

Officials: Brice ) Auburn), referee; Mil-
lan (Davidson), head linesman; Carson (Da-
vidson), umpire. Substitutions—State; Clark,
Bethea, Stone, Combs, Sykes, Tucker, At-
kinson, Herbst, Hargrove, Rutter. David-
son: Estridge, Gilliam, First downs—State
Fresh 13, Davidson Fresh 7. Penalties—

State Fresh: 40 yards; Davidson Fresh, 50

= aa eh | giving.

- OPPONENTS’ SCORES

N. C. State --.20 Duke ~2------- 18° f
Florida, --.---- 13. Alabama ------ 6
Kentucky ----- 7A eee if) Eg) Easaespregnt 0
Wofford ------ 6. Citadel ...---- 6

Quantico Mrns..36 W. Forest ----10

Wrestling Practice

Will Start Monday

Jeff Garrison, captain of the Wildcat
wrestling team, has announced that wrestling
practice for the coming season will begin
next Monday. There remain from last year’s
team only three men. These men, will form
the nucleus around which Captain Garrison
will build his team.

The matmen have a hard schedule before
them this year. Their first encounter will be
with the team from the University of North
Carolina and will be held at Davidson on
the 4th of February. After this meet, the
Wildcats journey to Lexington, Va., and take
on the wrestlers from V. M. I. on the 11th
of February. They will remain in Lexing-
ton to wrestle Washington and Lee on the
13th. An encounter with the Concord “Y”
is pending, and if this meet is arranged, it
will be held here on the 18th of February.
The grapplers will then go to Durham, where |
they will meet Duke on the 25th. From
there they go to Raleigh and take on N. C.
State on the 27th.

A great deal of new equipment will be add-
ed to that which is on hand at the present
time. Among the new equipment is a rub-
beroid cover for the mat. This cover will be
used only during the meets. The team will
use’a canvas cover while practising.

STATE BEATS DUKE

(Continued from page one)
point in the struggle with Duke, who pre-
sented by far the toughest and closest fight
of the season. And with two more teams
from out of the state to be met, the Wolf-
pack has a chance to add more gridiron
laurels to those they have already won.

With the first place definitely settled, im-
portant results hinge on the coming game be-
tween Carolina and Duke. If Carolina wins,
they take second place, and if Duke triumphs,
Carolina goes down to fourth’ Wake Forest
seems to be therefore definitely placed at the
third member of the list, and, unless David-
son upsets all the dope and wins over Duke
Thanksgiving, the Wildcats will go to the
bottom.

State and Duke succeeded in presenting the
most outstanding individual stars for the sea-
son—Duke with Janoski and State with Mc-
Dowall, who.is presented as a candidate for
the All-Southern.

TOM AND MIN

(Continued from page 1)
Ellet, proved to be a splendid “butcher” of
peanuts, sandwiches, and cold drinks. In
fact, the whole crew was “ready.”

Although their favorites failed to down
the, Tar Heels, it was far from a gloomy
gang that piled into the cars for the return
trip, and the dopesters immediately began to
make plans to whip Duke on Turkey Day.
Dominoes were soon produced, some harmon-
ious souls struck up favorite melodies, and
as the saying goes, “everybody killed a big
one.” The old ship of Zion pulled into port
at eleven fifty-nine plus, and most of its
crew managed to reach their rooms in safety.

C. C. W. GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page one)
which literally took the students by storm.
The class of ’29 hopes to bring several other
Glee and Choral Clubs to Davidson this year,
among the number being those of Queens
and Converse.

COLLEGIATE PRESS

general manager, since he was the originator
of the idea.

At present no definite action has been
taken here at Davidson, but at an early meet-
ing of the estaff the correspondent is to be
appointed, which will mark the entrance of
Davidson into the Collegiate Press.

We congratulate State College on her win-
ning the state title for 1927. State backed
the Wildcats last year after their chances for
the title were gone, and we are glad to see
them get the title this year. They have an
unusually good team this year and deserve
‘the 1927 title. ‘

clawing Wildéats, fighting to the last. ditch,
and don’t place too much faith in the news-,
Paper;dopa It will be a'great battle Thanks-

