’

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

3
——E
i
66 .« 99'
U
“Tl take a pound of mince meat,”, IJt’s a long Jane that have no curves, e
phoned the young house wife, “and please | eee TECOI | mel .\datio1 ]
cut it from a nice young mince.” | Our Best
Miller—“It you shw. me: géing dean Two Scotchmen were in swimming
the street. riding a donkey what fruit | when an argument arose over which one
would you naturally think of?” hee stay under water the longest. As
Taylor—“A perfect pair.” a result each agreed to pay the other six
Lit cents in case he was forced to come up
To mark the close of a perfect day let's ce an eee eee
tune in on station W. H. O. and hear that 2 Pay O
new number entitled “I call my girl anos
Daisy because I know she won't tell.” Grocer’s Advertisement
- Apples, oranges, imported nuts, fruit
Our Definition of an Afternoon Tea cake for sale. Come early and avoid the EXPERIENCED pipe-smokers from Cape Lis-
Gibble, Gabble, Gobble, Git! rush, The early bird gets the worm.
es burne to Cape Sable (get out your map of North
coe eo Prof, in Astronomy class—“Now, we America!) recommend P. A. to you as the
tere is none that is worse ‘ i i i
Pie ee MODAGIRIAD pes let ra hat represent Mars and this finest tobacco that ever lined the bowl of a pipe.
Of a'lie i -roveree. err Meee usw eee You'll check-in with their recommendation
: a | ther is there anyone who wants to ask *
ERTS na | H 2”. . e e
Mother—"Tot Vee Sis ; /any questions
atother “Johnnie, gow ash your face) Billy Rice—Yes sir, I'd like to know ; Why, the instant you swing back the hinged
FoURiie Wiis eiethene whether Mars is inhabited or not.” lid on the tidy red tin, your olfactory nerve reg-
J ie O, ers e e . e
feral isters a fragrance like that of a pine-grove on a
Judge—“How did the dectectives ever !'lythe—“They tell me that the buteh- damp morning. And when you tuck a load of .
suspicion that the prisoner was a man ©! S SON, who went to the university ° : : P. A. is sold everywhere in
disguised as a woman?” made the boxing team.” this wonderful tobacco into your pipe —— say, tidy red tins, pound and half.
Lawyer—“Your honor, he passed a mil-| /tierson — “Year, the light weight Mister! Pound cryiatalans ‘humidor
inery shop without looking in th cre team.” é % nih sponges ol ener OP.
dotw.” eis cones Cool as Cape Lisburne, mentioned above. of bie and’ patch removed by
‘ ® e rince er rocess.
moc Jones—“What did he do, marry?” Sweet as the plaudits of a first-night audience.
An American tourist sat in a Paris cafe McCutcheon—“No, he bought a second jae ‘ 9
and“Wrote to. his wife back in Ameriéa, (hand ford.” Mild as morning in Cape Sable... (That’s work-
“I have been in Paris two weeks and/| ing-in the old geography! ) Mild, yet with a
haven't taken a drink.” Just then an or-| Speaker="I haven't the least respect full tobacco body that completely satisfies your
chestra began playing, “My Bonnie Lies | for a.coward, What kind ofa man would a au aP y phe
Over, the Ocean.” But he failed to catch | you call a person who hides behind a smoke-taste. Buy some Prince Albert today and
the significance and sent the letter on. [lady's skirt?” make the test!
Rea | Voice from audience—‘*Well, sir, I'd
Shaw—“How about paying me that | say he was a magician.”
dollar I loaned you last month?” | ‘“That’s a new one on me,” said the
Thrower— You can’t get blood from a| monkey as he scratched his back. y
turnip can you?” |
Shaw—"No, but you can from a beet.” | l .
Thrower—“Well, not a dead beet.” | shor Sele -noding pest by pig Aa hlacaha . pe ¢ H
ieee up and looks like a piano. Phone —no other tobacco is like it!
Man’s Life | seven eleven, thirteen S. Bedford.
1—School tablets
2—Aspirin tablets ’Tis done beneath the mistletoe 1927, R, J. Reynolds Tobacco
, , Winston-Salem, N. C.
3—Stone tablets ’Tis done beneath the rose, seis

» | But the proper place to kiss, you know,

Stop your car and let the train go by Is just below the nose.

Tt won't take more than a minute,
Your car will start again intact,
And better still you're in it,

Worries of a College Student
“Is this dance formal or can I wear my
| own clothes?”

a
Report on Business

Wrecker Service — Many Did

picking up.” “Have your interior painted for Christ-
Elevator Company-—“Our stock is very | mas,”

“Our. business is

unstable. It continues to go up and —Sign in mountain town,
down.” —
Seaboard R. R. Co—“We're off again.” | Many husbands have dens in their
Town Bakery—‘Our Investment is homes; others just howl all over the!

rising rapidly.” | house.

l

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS

Selz Shors, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery

Fresh Country Vegetables. |

STAPLE AND FANCY |
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N.C.

THE SHOP FOR AMEN

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

15 E. Trade St.

Ay

Dairy Produce Co.—“Ours is a creamy
outlook for the future.”

To Whom Honor Is Due

—— | The local fire department arrived at
Frank Daniels—“Look here at the let-|the scene of the fire after the building
ters I’ve received since Christmas. Can | Ws almost consumed, and° aided wonder-
you beat it?” | fully toward the further spread of the
McEachern—“I believe it would pay | fire. \
you to get married and live off your stamp
money.” | A stranger moved into a fairly pro-
George White? | gressive town and opened up an under-
Stage hand—“Shall I lower the cur-| taking establishment. For the sake of
tain sir? One of the living models has| Publicity he offered to, bury free of
the hiccoughs.” | charge the first victim of suicide in the
ieee ew os town. At the next meeting of court the
McCutcheon—“Yes, I hear that Webb is | Undertaker was arraigned for the mur-
letting the rest of the world go by.” j der of all the Scotchmen in town.

— YY _ seeceeeeeeese ©00008000008808 eececeeeoeeee

Pretty

OR TH

The New
OPHONIC
na VICFROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at
Henderson’s Filling Station |}

DAVIDSON, N C.

(rrr rrr LITItirittiittrrri rit rrIi1trd

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

FOR THAT TASTE OF

Home Cooking On Your
Way Home

New York Cafe

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N.C.

a

ee

213 N, Tryon St.

CREDENZA, $300.00

29 West Trade St.

«

