THE

DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Dr. W. P. Cumming Will Present Paper to
Modern Language Association Meeting

Dr. W. P. Cumming, of the English de-
partment of Davidson College, will present
a paper to the Modern Language Associa-
tion, meeting in Louisville, Ky., on December
30th. Other papers of various subjects will

association.

“The Writings of St. Birgitta in England
Before the Reformation” will be the subject
of Dr. Cumming’s paper. It will consist of
notes taken, while in Oxford, from many

manuscript copies in the libraries of Eng- |

land. A great deal of time was spent by

year. While taking advanced work at Ox-
ford he spent much time preparing the pa-
pers. :

The Modern Language Association is a
meeting of all teachers in modern languages
this side of the Mississippi River. The
gathering will consist of quite a number of
noted professors. It will be remembered
that Dr. Watts, of the French department,
presented a similar paper last year at ‘this
time. es

During the conference of teachers, quite
a number of papers will be presented on
many varied subjects. These papers will be
presented in any of the modern languages.
It is quite a high honor to be chosen by the

association to present a paper at their as- |

sembly.

WRIGHTS URGES

(Continued from page one)
and marauding Germany will inquire about
Chicago’s gunmen. ;

America can learn many things in her re-
lationships with this larger world. Courtesies
shown a traveler abroad puts to shame our
American hustle and bustle. America never
thinks of the feelings of newly arrived im-
migrants but sends them off in trains like so
many cattle.

Germany with her splendid system of ag-
riculture and conservation of natural re-
sources can give us, the most wasteful nation
on earth, something to think about and
emulate.

England can show the way to America in
the matter of law enforcement, respect for
authority and order. ,

Students of America must be willing to
learn from the larger world of Europe and
must be ambassadors of good-will and en-
lightened democracy. It is the task of State
and Church to produce men of this char-
acter who will be able to lead America into
her place of the Larger World.

iv

STUDENT CRITICISES
(Continued from page 1)

are to believe editors of other days, is always
inferior. One hopes that Christmas holidays
may furnish inspiration to a larger number
of contributors’ in January.

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

}
be presented at the annual meeting of the |

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith - ™

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S& W Pxdesatins

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

Quartet Sings at
Salisbury Service

A. double quartet from the Davidson Glee
Club, in company with Rev. L. Schenck, new

| professor of Mathematic and Bible, conduct-
|ed the evening service at the First Presby-
| terian Church of Salisbury, on Sunday, No-
| vember 27th: The quartet gav ethree num-

bers. Those composing the delegation were:
S. Gray, Frank Pilcher, Bill Archie,

Peay *harli b Lowrance, Syd Aber-
Professor Cumm ? | Charlie Creech, Bol ;

ie) eae heseaseit: Woke: 184 |nathy, Knox Poole, and Proctor Thompson.
| Some of the townspeople and members of the

| First Church entertained the boys at dinner

lin various homes, after which they had group

singing.

| Quartets of this kind are going to be call-

/ed on more and more frequently in supple-
| menting various “Y” deputations throughout

| the year, as well as help with the music at

| the regular college “Y” services on Sunday
night.

| The Eu Literary Society held its weekly
| meeting on last. Thursday night in the Eu
| Hall. After the roll call and minutes, a very
jinteresting program was given, which dif-

| fered somewhat from the usual ones.

| ATR. Bird, Jr., gave a very practical talk
|on the subject, “Are Brains Essential In
| Business?” Mentioning the names of many
jof the foremost business men of the coun-
| try, Mr. Bird impressed the fact that one
| cannot succeed without brains, and that the
best way to develop them is to finish the col-
lege curriculum.

Hugh White read a very entertaining and
interesting selection from Robert Service.
|The customary debate was omitted as the
officers are trying to introduce new ideas by
changing the types of meetings from time to
time.

Two new members were received, making
a total of about 30 Freshmen that have join-
ed the society since the beginning of school.
The two men were: B. M. Drake and A. R.
Jackson. Much interest is being taken in
the work, which is progressing more smooth-
ly than it has for the last two or three years.

E. F. Bohannon, '27, who recently re-
teurned from New York and spent a few
weeks at Davidson, is now located with
Stein Bros, & Boyce, at Asheville, N. C.
B. W. Romefelt, ’22, is also connected with
that firm, in the capacity of manager of
the Asheville office.

Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, of Charlotte,
was the principal speaker at the “Ladies’
Night” program of the Monarch Club in
Charlotte recently.

R. S. Clary, ’14, formerly. of Greens-
boro, is now located at Jacksonville, Fla.,
527 Palmetto St.

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Charlotte, N. C..

banking needs.

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States

Government. Make us your Executor. _
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

|" OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President LW. STEWART. Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Acet. Cashier?
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Acslotent Cashier

Founded 1874

Glee Club Entertains
Large Concord Audience

Stringed Instrument Trio Features
Well-Received Program

Davidson is well represented over the
South in various prep school and high school
coaches. One of these is C. R. ‘Pat’? Craw-
ford, who is acting for the first time as head
coach at Guilford College. Beside Craw-
ford, ten other grads of Davidson are serv-
ing in the capacity of athletic coaches at the
present time.

Mirth and jollity reigned supreme in’ the
high school auditorium at Concord last Fri-
day evening with the Davidson Glee Club
presenting; its first out-of-town program of
the year. In spite of the inclement weather
the auditorium was well filled, and thé entire
program was received with much applause.

Especially well received and applauded by
the audience was the Stringed Instrument
Trio, consisting of Gordon McSwain, Mob-
ley, and Poctor Thompson. This part of the
| program was rendered during the intermis-
i sion, and their presentations were encored
a number of times. Ed. Wilson’s solos also

Joe McConnell, a last year’s graduate of
Davidson, and Leonard Dick, of the class of
'23, are the football mentors who have suc-
ceeded in putting Woodbury Forest on the
pinnacle of prep school football for the
South. Woodbury Forest has always had an

| Ed, Wilson, accompanied by Mobley; Sunny-

made a hit with the Concord listeners. He
| was accompanied at the piano by Mobley.

| The program for the evening was: “Col-
|lege Ties,” by the Glee Club; Concort, by
| Orchestra; “The® Bell Mass,” and “The
| Brownies,” by Glee Club; selo, by Bob Low-
|rance; “Sunnyland Serenaders,” C. J. All-
| bright, director; “The Blind Ploughtman,”

| Glee Club; intermission: Stringed Instru-
| ment Trio¢McSwafn, Mobley, and Thomp-
| son; “The Broken Melody,” and “Bend Low,

O Dusky Night,” by Glee Club; vocal solos,

excellent football team, but this is their first
Southern .prep school championship in sev-
eral years. Joe McConnell was the varsity
center of last year’s championship Wildcat
team. He played in this capacity of varsity
center for three years. Leonard Dick won
his varsity letters in football and in track.
For several years past, Wilmington High
School has had a football team that has
proven to be a big threat for the North
Carolina state championship. This is the
first year, however, that they have turned
out a real championship team. Most of the
| land Serenaders; “Bells of St. Mary’s,”! credit for this state victory is due Coach
| quartet (Gray, Lowrance, Foster, Thomp-! R, L, Black, who is an alumnus of the class
| son) ; “Mother’s Boy,” and “O, Davidson,” of '22, When Mr. Black went to Wilming-
| by Glee Club. ton High School to serve in the capacity of
The Glee Club appearance in Concord was | coach, the highe school had at best but a
He has so ably whipped the

sponsored by the King’s Daughters, with | mediocre team.
| Mrs. J. P. Cook as president, and the suc-! material offered into, shape that in the final,
| cess of the program was due largely to her | championship. game between Greensboro and
| efforts, | Wilmington Highs, the Wilmington boys

Eleven Davidson Grads
Coach Football Teams

won out. Black was a member of the var-
sity Wildcat football team. A

W. O. Green and W. H. “Count” Leggette,
both of past year’s class, are now coaching
at Concord High. Both of these men won
letters on the college championship team for
the year of 1926. Leggette starred through-
out the whole season.

Mason D. Fields, of the class of ’24, is
coaching at present at Monroe High School,
of this state. Fields was a member of the
football team while at Davidson.

As has been stated above, C. R. “Pat”
Crawford coached at Gastonia High for
three years. Before graduating with the
class of '23, Crawford won a “D” in varsity
baseball and basketball. He was also a mem-
ber of the scrub football team.

Rockingham High has for coaches, W. N.
Treverton and R. L. Mitchell, both of the
class of '26. Treverton was a member of
the varsity track and cross country teams.
Bob Mitchell was a guard on the champion
Wildcat team, and scored a touchdown in the
title tilt, that with Duke.

I, S. Christenbury, a Davidson grad of -
the class of '25, is-at present coaching foot-
ball at Kings Mountain.

We want to know whether macaroni
is overgrown spaghetti spaghetti is
stunted macaroni.

or

Ford—“I'm the Prince of Wales.”
Eddins—‘Prove it.”
Ford—"“Get me a horse.”

WHAT you get out of a pipe
depends on what you feed it.
Millions of contented jimmy-
pipers will tell you that Prince
Albert commands a pipe to stand
and deliver. You suspect you are
in for some grand pipe-sessions
the minute you get a whiff of
P.A.’s aroma.

The first pipe-load confirms
your suspicions. What a smoke,
Fellows! Remember when you
asked for the last dance and she
said ““You’ve had it!”? P. A. is
cool, like that. And sweet as know-
6 ing that she didn’t really mean it.

PRINGE ALBE

itl

your throat.

P. A. is sold every-
where in tidy red tins,
pound end half-pound
tin humidors, and
pound crystal-glass
humidors with sponge-
amoistener top. And
always with every bit
of bite and parch re-
moved by the Prince
Albert process.

—no other tobacco is like

9,827, B,J, Reveaide Febecen y

Sweet and mellow and mild and
long-burning.

Put your pipe on P. A. You can
hit it up to your heart’s content,
knowing in advance that P.A.
will not bite your tongue or parch

alone gets P.A. into the best
smoke- fraternities.

think of all its other qualities!

That one quality

And _ then

