TH

EDAVI

SONIAN ©

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 5, 1927

No. 28

COLLEGE EDITORS HOLD Wildcat Doubles Team

SEMI-ANNUAL CONCLAVE
AT N.C. WOMAN’S COLLEGE

Five Davidson Journalists Attend
Greensboro Meeting in Interest
of Publications—Major Jeff-
ress to Address Convention
Friday Afternoon

North Carolina College for Women, at
Greensboro, will be the host to the North
Carolina Intercollegiate ~Press Association
at the semi-annual meeting to be held on
May 5, 6, and 7. There will be five men
representing the Davidson publications, V. S.
Broyles, Martin Crawford and Boyce Mar-
tin, for The Davidsonian; D. W. Hancock
for the annual and J. G. Wharton for The
Chameleon. ;

The delegates are expected to arrive in
Greensboro Thursday afternoon in time for
the banquet that night at the O. Henry Hotel.
The time for the banquet is 8:00 o'clock, at
which time the representatives will have a
chance to become acquainted.

Friday morning various questions will be
discussed by newspaper men and group meet-
ings will be held. Friday afternoon Major
Jeffress, who is connected with the Greens-
boro Daily, will address the assembled dele-
gates. Sometime during the day the Press
Association members will be driven over the
city by the Civilian Club, and Friday night a
buffet supper will be served which will be
followed by the annual dance drama at the
Peabody Park.

Saturday morning will be devoted to busi-
ness, principally that of the election of of-
ficers for the coming year. The present
officers are as follows: Bryan Haworth, of
The Guilfordian, president; V. S. Broyles,
of The Davidsonian, vice-president; Sally
Gordon, of the magazine of Greensboro Col-
lege for Women, second vice-president;
Dorothy Siewens, of The Salemite, secretary,

(Continued on page 3)

New Students’ Store
Managers Selected

“Spike” MeGee has been

year’s manager of the Student Store, and
J. R. McCravey has been chosen as assistant

elected next

|

Captures Tennis Title
| Third Successive Year

| Trophy Cup Becomes Permanent
Possession of Davidson

RODDEY SINGLES FINALIST

McCutchen and Carr Defeat Strong
Duke Team in Final Round
Playing Five Sets

| Office for Stadium
to be Given by ’27

The gift which the class of '27 will con-

Davidson and Duke split honors for first tribute to the college will be in the form of

|
|
|
|
manager. The Board of Directors of the
|

place in the recent Intercollegiate tennis | @ handsome and highly useful ticket booth
Student Store, which is now composed of | tournament at Chapel Hill, Carr and Me-| for the new stadium and athletic field. It
« vc ac ; Dake le. ° , .
Mr. Ueto Dr. J. M. Douglas, Jim Pink- | Cutchen, Davidson's champion doubles team, | will be constructed of ‘white stone and red
ney, Ernest Bohannon, and Heber Mcll-| winning the state title for the third. year,
waine, selected these two from a rather large | while Whisnant, of Duke, defeated John | :
number of applicants. It was believed that | Roddey for the singles title. | as the stadium,
combined faithfulness in these two in their | McCutchen and Carr, defending the ‘satel feet by ten and will include the booth proper
work as clerks and their business ability best | doubles title for Davidson, advanced to the |
\fitted them for the position.

brick and of the same type of architecture

Its dimensions are to, be six

and a turnstile. Besides adding decidedly to

| finales on Thursday, defeating Powers and
Under the very capable management of | Hall, of Wake Forest, in straight sets, 6-1,

Jim Kuykendall as manager and F, R.) 6-2. The Wildcats, in the first round of the

“. | ’

Adams, the Student Store has had a very! tournament, won from Duke's second team | The appropriation was determined upon by

* ae 7, yay) are e y _ | ¢ saey 6- e score 2 {yo ¢ ~- | ss : ms : :

successful year. As is generally known the | by an easy 6 1, 6 1 score. Roddey and Mc lthe Sentor Gift Committee, with Bill Chris:

Student Store has been able not only to de-| Alpine, playing positions three and four for | |; , ;

: ; eats . % \tian as chairman,,after much contemplation
posit a considerable sum for the purpose of | the Wildcats, lost the first round of the| 9. ine things most needed on the campus
building a swimming pool, but to support | doubles to the strong Carolina team, In the | Te fae been ARtGR Por cilia BIBRGEN it
many student organizations such as sending | finals, the defenders had to go the full five iany. years past to make some addition to
Davidson's representatives to the Southern | sets before they finally downed the Duke | }4, campus buildings and equipment as a
Student Conference each year. The Student | team composed of Whisnant, the present | token 6¢ alk appreciation éf their ne

Ht) i ; Kk é cli E
Store has also actively supported college pub-! singles winner, and his partner, Rogers, for-| yr 46.
lications by constant advertising. | mer holder, of the singles title. The score

ne . ° | » finale ne 2?

Aviéw Board of Directors is to be selected | for the finals was 6-0, 0-6, 6-3, 1-6, 6-2. |
soon. In the past there have been two mem-| Since Captain McCutchen has played on the |

\the attractiveness of the lower campus the

gift will greatly facilitate the matter of
| handling the big crowds at the football games.

In the appropriateness and cost of

the gift of this year’s class they have equallel

if not excelled all classes of the past.
Noticeable gifts of past classes scatctred

bers of the Faculty on it in addition to three | Davidson team which has won for three}

straight years, the Wildcats take the cup |
| home for keeps this wine: Last yeas Mc- | presented by the class of ’24, the numerous
Cutchen, playing with Carr, won the title at | 3 ; eres
Pape | stone benches placed beneath the treas, and
Chapel Hill.

925 McCutchen was part- ; ;
a I McCutchen was part |the lights placed upon theclibrary, steps and
(Continued on page 2)
library and by numerous other gifts.
~ Leal class day, which will be held some

| in front of the gym. Other classes have car-
ied out the custom by giving books to the

| ‘he gilt will be officially presented to the

-eollexe with appropriate ceremonies on the

[time during commencement week.

}

|

|

student directors. Two or the three student
directors are, as a rule, the president of the
student body and the president of the athletic
association. The third member is from the
student councilors of the rising Senior class.
Heber McIlwaine was this man on the pres-
ent board of directors.

The Student Store has for the last several

| years filled a great need in the life of the |

| students. Its first term of existence found
: (Continued on page 2)

Martin Elected Officer of Sectienn
Students at Recent Kentucky Meeting

At a meeting of the Sotfhern Federation
of College Students, held last week at the
University of Kentucky, Boyce Martin was
elected secretary-treasurer of the conference,
succeeding Jim Pinkney, holder of that office
during the last year. The election of officers
was held at the final meeting of a two-day
session, the conference being brought to a
close on Saturday afternoon.

Martin was elected from a number of

nominees, some of them from the leading |
universities of the South, and his selection |

is a tribute both to his own recognized ability
and to the continued position of influence held
by Davidson among the youth of the South-
land.

With Martin as Davidson’s representative
to the conference went H. M. Arrowood,
president of the Davidson student body. Jim
Pinkney, former secretary-treasurer of the
federation and retiring president of the stu-
dent body, was unable to attend.

Walter James, of Georgia Tech, was elect-

ed. president of the federation, and John Bul-
lock, of the University of Kentucky, vice-
president. Both are leaders on their respective
campuses.
- Following the election it was decided that
the next meeting of the federation, in the
late spring of 1928, will be held at the Uni-
versity of Alabama.

The conference considered various student
problems, Dean Turch, of the School of Law,
University of Kentucky, being the principal
speaker of the conference. Col. H. B. Hobbs,
of the U. S. Army, was another speaker, his
subject being “The Relation of R. O. T..C.
to the College.”

(Continued on page 6)

~

Arbiters of Frosh
Conduct Appointed

Appointments have beeti_ made by the Stu-

Control for 1927-28. F. S. Wearn, of the
rising Senior class, is the judge of the new
court. The Senior members will be Lynn
| McLain, W. L. Lingle, and Rod McRae. Of
| the rising Juniors, M. T. Gilmore and R. FE.
Kell and J. D. Hammett and A. N. Halver-
stadt were appointed as Sophomore members
of the court.

“Piggy” Wearn, the new judge, will take
charge of affairs in time to prepare a set of
rules and regulations for the class of ’31.
The present judge, “Abe” Lincoln, will have
j completed his work after Soph Day this year.

class, has set May 14 as Soph Day.

The function of the Court of Control is to
boost the freshmen and to enforce certain
rules and regulations which have to be set on
them. Since the abolishment of hazing, the
Court of Control has been active in helping
freshmen and also in keeping them in check.
Restrictions such as the- wearing of fresh
caps, keeping off the grass, and keeping their
seats in chapel have to be placed on freshmen
to keep them from over-running privileges.

“Abe” Lincoln’ and this year’s court hav
set a precedent for those of future years in
allowing the freshmen to remove their caps
about the middle of the spring semester.
This regulation necessarily places Soph Day
earlier in the year.

The court for this year was: “Abe” Lin-

(Continued on page 2)

dent Council for positions on the Court of,

The Court of Control, backed by the Soph’

over the grounds are the fountain which was

awarded by the class of '25, the college gate

Students to Gather at |
Blue Ridge Conferen

Ten Men Compose Quota of
Davidson Representatives
Representatives from the various colleges |
and universities of the South will meet at
Blue Ridge, N. C., from June 17th to 26th,
|The occasion of this meeting is the annual
Southern Conference of the Y. M. C, A.
and the Y. W. C. A. Hitherto the confer- |
‘ences have been held separate but this year
it has been judged best to hold the two con-
One thousand dele
gates,from the different schools of the South
are expected to attend this conference. The
quota allowed to Davidson is ten men. Last
year Davidson had the largest delegation in
her history when she sent seven men and it is
heped to better this mark this year.

Sophs Make Plans
For Fresh Capers

as j ; The annual Soph Day has been definitely
ferences in conjunction. f ; :
set for May 14, on which day the Sophomore

class will have entire charge of affairs with

the rising Sophomores accepting the admin-
istration of events as participants. For the
past several years, in fact ever since the in-
auguration of’such an idea, the plan has met
with great great success, and this year will
| prove no exception to the rule unless it is
| that the Soph Day of 1927 will reveal itself
/as an even greater success than such past
days.

The activities scheduled for, any one day
|are a complete whol¢, all business will be
finished on the day started and riot carried
over to th efollowing day. A typical day
would work out as follows:

First. Following the morning session the
‘student discussion group leaders will meet
with the executive committee to determine
| what problem or subject will be treated on

A committee from the class of ’29 has been
appointed to innovate plans hereto unheard
of and to renovate highly touted ones of
recent years. This committee, with Ray-
7 | mond Lake as chairman, is composed of Bill
the following day. | Powell, Hub Knox, Dick Parker, Reid Gra-

Second. At 7:00 o'clock the conference ham, John Moriarty, Monroe Gilmour, Nel-
| will meet in small personal and fellowship son Myers and Bob Grady, and reports from
groups to discuss the problems of the day.

| same indicate a day of surprises for the

Third. From 7:30 to 8:30 there will be a| Freshman and onlookers alike; the surprises
| hillside address by some noted speaker on the | to be more pleasant to the latter. No word
| attitude of Jesus toward the problems of | has escaped the committee as to what Soph

| today. | Day will bring forth. In fact, all the schemes
| Fourth. After rising, there will follow a| 2nd different events are being kept secret,
| brief devotional period at 8:30. | not to be given to the general public, student

| body and the awed and bewildered Freshmen

til the eventful day.

Fifth. At 9:00 o'clock there will be an}
open forum in which there will be at least | un
‘two speakers. The subject will be “Helps |
From Science and Experience.” Following

there will be an open forum discussion of the

As on former occasions, a full day will be
| given over to the activities of the Freshmen,
| beginning early in the morning and following
a set schedule until late at night. The sched-

North Carolina Academy of Scientiats
Holds Annual Meeting Here This Week

~CATS OUTHIT GOBBLERS
BUT ERRORS CAUSE LOSS
OF GAME BY 10-8 SCORE

Numerous Hits and Errors Feature
Monday’s Loosely Played Game
—V. P. I. Takes Lead in Early
Innings Which is Maintained

In a game remarkable only for a super-
fluity of errors,jtfie Davidson Wildcats went
down in defeat to V. P. I. on last Monday
afternoon, to the tune of a 10-8 score. Da-
vidson was never ahead after the first inning,
but was within one point of the winners at.
one time, and but for an even dozen miscues
should have won with ease.

Both Wells and Meadows pitched beautiful
ball in the face of a discouraging lack of
support by ‘their teammates, and the hits of
the Gobblers were for the most part well
scattered. Had the Davidsonians’ errors been
equally well scattered the outcome might
have been differenty

Ratchford led the Wildcats at the bat, with
three hits in five trips to the plate, and did
well in the field, with four put-outs in five
chances. Hal Johnson had the distinction of
being the only member of the Davidson team
to play nine innings without an error. Mea-
dows had a clean slate as well, but his stay
in the game was for only two innings.

Woodham and Dulin each made two hits,
but offset this good record by making some-
What more than their share of misplays.
Wells struck out four men, Meadows two,
and Handy one, :
| The V, P. I. players were not perfect in
itheir play, making five errors, mostly in the
| fatal fourth inning in which Davidson scored
| six runs. Their eight hits
among as many men. Sexton, who relieved
| Handy, tightened down on the Wildcats and
allowed only one run in five innings. Alex-
‘ander and Willey were perfect in fielding.
Box score and summary:

(Continued on page 6)

were divided

|

On Friday and Saturday, May 6 and 7, the
North Carolina will
hold its twenty-sixth annual meeting and the
North of American
Chemical Society will hold its spring meeting
at Davidson, The following is a calendar of
the events that will take place in the course

Academy of Science

Carolina Section the

of the two meetings :

Friday, May 6th Hall.

10:30 A, M.—Presentation of papers.
Committee.
. 2:30 P. M.—Meeting of Executive Com-

Shearer

mittee. :

3:00 P. M.—Presentation of papers.

4:45 P. M.—Business meeting and_ elec-
tion of officers.

8:00 P. M.—Address of Welcome, Presi-
dent Martin, Davidson College; Presidential
Address, President Bert Cuyningham, of the
Academy of Science. {

9:00 P. M.—Informal Social Hour in the
Quadranglers Club Rooms, as the guests ot
the Quadranglers Club.

, Saturday, May 7th,

' 9:00 A. M.—Separate meetings: General
Section, Hall; Chemical Section,
Martin Chemical Laboratory; Physics and
Mathematics Section, Greek Class Room.

Papers will be presented to the Academy
by the following college representatives:

State College: E. E. Randolph, G. W.
Fant, R. E. Poole, F. E. Rice, Joseph L.
Stuckey, G. R. Shelton, Donald B. Ander-
son, F. B. Meacham, C. H. Brannon, and F,
G. Hall.

University of North Carolina;

Shearer

‘W. C.

E. Y, Kyser, H. V. Wilson, W. F. Prouty,

| talk.

~(Continued on page 2) (Continued on page 6)

(Continued on page 6)
