THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927

Zé

=

A. M. Examinations Begin at 9:00

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE §.

P. M. Examinations Begin at 2:00°

FRESHMAN SOPHOMORE = JUNIOR AND SENIOR
JAN No Classes No Classes |App. Math. I, 2, Psychology 3
19 ‘ A.M. Economics 1, Business 3
THURS. * |Bible 1 Bible 2 Astronomy, Geology 1
P.M. __|Pub. Speaking 2, Philosophy 4
i Chemistry2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6
20 A.M. Se 4 25 es _ Reonomics 2, Education 2
FRI. P.M. q . y History I |History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Geno Ant. ch een a German 3, 4
21 A.M. Greet Gtéek 20 Greek gii5):6 a _———- oe
SAT. P.M.|Math. 1 Math, 2 Math. 3, 5. Pol. Science 3, Phychology 2
panes Education 1, Business, Geology 4
A.M. |Physics A Physics 1 Physics 2, 3, 4, 5
24 Miives| ee ss
TUES. eee, Pol. Science 2, Pub. Speaking 3
P.M. Rite _|Sociology, Philosophy 3
25 A.M Spanish A Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
WED ys *#Spanish I
i py |R OT. Ct R. O. T. C. 2 R. O. T. C. 3, 4. Phychology 4
Phys. & H Pub. Speakin Philosophy 1 Pol. Science 4
A.M. a caer a d Business 2. E®onomics 4
ae tamale ~~ |Geology 3 Pol. Science 1
THURS. P.M. Education 3 ene
27 A FrenchiI French 2 French 3, 5, 8, 9
.M.
FRI. French A Latin 2 Economics 3, Geology 2, Psychology 1
P.M. |Latin 1 : _|Education 4 Philosophy 2
28 A. Mr, [Biology 1 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5, 6,7
SAT. P.M. '!Enelish 2 English 1 English 3, 4, 5.6, 7,8

DR..D. A. ROBERTSON

(Continued from page 1)
over-emphasis on scholarship in the early
days of the society as far-as I have been able
to ascertain.

“Scholarship became a requisite to mem-
bership in the society first in 1834).when a
group of Harvard students were advised to
elect their members on the basis of scholastic
achievement. The long list of subsequent
Phi Beta Kappa orations, documents and let-
ters indicate the importance now placed on

_ intellectual attainment. One communication
of the fraternity inquires “What is the magic
touch, the infallible principle by which Phi
Beta Kappa has so infallibly sifted men in
our universities and chosen those fated for
pre-eminence?’ The communication then
answers itself with a nod toward scholarship.
It has been pointed out that chief executives,
supreme court justives, publicists, writers
and leaders in every field of human endeavor
have been members of this society, and were
chosen for their scholarly attainments,

“It is declared that 30 per cent of the stu-
dents who belonged to Phi Beta Kappa at
Wesleyan University have been chosen for
places in the American ‘Who's Who’ as com-
pared with 11 per cent of those who did not
belong. Five per cent of the Phi Beta men
in 22 other colleges were likewise. included in
‘Who's Who.’ But, the point is not that five
per cent of the Phi Beta Kappa men lived up
to expectations, but rather that 95 per ‘cent
of those chosen by this infallible rule:to at-
tain pre-eminence fell short of the mark in
after life. Scholarship under closer scrutiny
proves more deceptive and more fallible than
it is sometimes pictured,” he added.

Dr. Robertson. attacked not so much the
ideal of scholarship as he did the methods

EAT AT THE

ASTOR LUNCH

SERVICE

—+

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N. C.

of measuring it. He seriously questioned
the validity of grades as indications of
achievement, initiative and will. “The° suc-
cess of a surgeon is not measured by his good
intentions, by his energy or by his long train-
ing, but rather by whether he saves or loses
his patient,” he declared. “It would be a
wholesome thing for our colleges if we could
get similar absolute measures for successful
scholarship. But, we must not stop there.
We must give full credit for initiative and
effort.”

olin this connection Dr. Robertson called
attention tothe work now being done by the
American Council on Education and its sub-
committees in an effort to perfect scientific
scales for measuring achievement, personal-
ity, capacity, and intensity-of desire among
students. Tests along these lines will be
concrete and will endeavor to show not
whether a student possesses intelligence, but
whether he uses it. ‘Measurement ‘of
achievement, capacity, and intensity of desire
is the only infallible rule by which we can
pick students who are fated for pre-emi-
nence,” he explained. ©

“We must’ not forget, however, that the
psychologist has never been able to measure
human will, and that men are frequently
masters of their fates. It is not always what
a man does that exalts him, it is what he
would do. We cannot kindle genius, but we
can give our young men the chance to suc-
ceed,” he concluded.

Dr. Robertson was principal speaker at
the annual Founders’ Day ceremony at which
nine Davidson College alumni and five stu-
dents were inducted into membership in the
Phi Beta Kappa society. Alumni _ initiates
were: Professors A. Currie and H. T. Lil-
ly, of the local faculty; Dr. W. M. Dunn,
Atlanta, Ga.; F. P. Hall, Belmont, N. C.;
Dr. H. S. Munroe, Charlotte; Dr. F. W.
Rankin, Rochester, Minn.; Dr. W. H. Rog-
ers, Tallahassee, Fla.;:Dr. W. H. Wearn,
Boston, Mass.; and Rev. Locke White,
Students initiated at the same time Were:
H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson; C. G. Davidson,
Chester, S. C.; J. S. Gray, Richmond, Va.;
D. H. Howard, Lynchburg, Va.; and J. S.
McAlister, Winston-Salem, N. C.

DR. NISBET URGES

(Continued from page 1)
journeys of the Jews up to Jerusalem three
times a year to celebrate their great feasts
and experience a spiritual awakening.

Mount Sinai was the first high place of
real importance in the history of the Jews
and of »the world, for here were given the
Ten Commandments, the basis of all law,
both religious and civil. No man can have

a strong, character who takes an indifferent

BELK BROTHERS CO.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

: Boys, we have them--the Cold Weather Togs

Got the right ones too. In Smart Snapp

Top Coats, all that’s

new and nobby. In Lumber Jacks, the Sweaters you like, got
Sy

of them. Fit any of you boys. Come to Snappy Ties
we've more than enough, Want you to have some of

them—all the Colors and Styles. And Gloves, call us up, any
kind, you want. Have the fine “White Ones” to any kind of

Weather Gioves.

And Young Men’s Suits, the “at
a real tailor made outfit. For a great deal |

d that

attitude toward them and the relationships
with which they deal. They are the school-
master that brings us to Jesus Christ.
Golgotha, though not high in physical ele-
vation, is of the highest significance to the
Christian world. On this little skull-shaped
knoll sin was revealed in all its terror and
reality, for this alone caused Christ’s death.
God's infinite.love stands out on the one
hand and His certainty of judgment on the
other. If God would not spare His Son the
agony of Golgotha, how can, any mere man

expect to escape punishment? Yet the way |
of redemption was here presented in its en- |
tirety. ; |

Mount Hermon, the scene of the Trans- |
figuration, provided a place of encourage-
ment and inspiration for the Master and His
three most devoted disciples, Peter, James,
and John. The veil was taken away for the
moment and the disciples were permitted to
see something of the heavenly life and glory

heaven, an act which signified that His mis-
sion on earth had been completed. Today
He stands at the helm of the church and
seeks through it to~bring salvation to the
world. The victory has already been won
by Him, and the church has-only to follow
in the wake of this advantage-to put its
enemies to final rout.

Young men often have “mountain top”
experiences which may be too sacred to re-
veal to the world, but which will play a
great influence in their lives if heeded. Seek
the vision of God and of noble ideals to lift
your life out of the ordinary planes of ex-
istence.

FORENSIC COUNCIL

(Continued from page 1) ~
will meet William and Mary, in Shearer
Hall. The date for this engagement is
pending, but will probably be March 15th.

W. L. Dumas and R. M., Christian, F. D.
Daniels, alternate, will compose the team
that meets Rutgers, on March 24th.

The subject which has been adopted for
the whole season, is: Resolved, That the
United States should cease to protect by
force of arms, capital invested in foreign
lands, except by actual declaration of war.
The side which each team will support has
not yet been chosen.

The complete schedule is as follows:

University of Florida, at Gainesville, Fla.,
March 13th.

University of South, at Sewanee, Tenn.,
March 15th.

Emory University, at Atlanta, Ga.,
16th. :

Hampden-Sidney, at Hampden-Sidney,
Va., March 13th.

George Washington University, at Wash-
ington, D. C., March 14th, ;

University of Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh,
Penn., March 15th.

University of Florida,
March 8th.

William and Mary, at Davidson, March
15th (Tentative). F

Rutgers College, at Davidson, March 24th.

March

at Davidson,

“T have a suit for every day in the week.”
“Yes ?” .
“This is it.”

Gossip: “I say, old chap, did you hear
about the awful fright that Jones got on his
wedding day?” i

Gossiper: “Did I? I was there myself,

| sults obtained are very gratifying to the

which was the possession of Jesus. Y.
Frem Mount Olivet, Jesus ascended into

and say her.”—Temple Collegian.
were aaa,

| “¥" Column |

The final service of the Y for the year |
of 1927 will be the annual Christmas serv- |
ice this Sunday. This will be a student |
meeting and will consist of songs by the |
Glee Club, short talks by one or two mem- |
bers of the student body, and will be in |
every way a Christmas service. This is |
your service, so why not be there and en- |
joy the real spirit of the Christmas sea-
son that this service will have. A fina’
worship before we leave for our much
looked-for holidays. So let’s make this
a real Christmas service by being there.

Sunday the 18th
Shearer at 6:15
ASHI See

Although it may not have been realized,
nevertheless there has been a fine Christ-
mas spirit throughout the whole school,
and it has taken’ concrete form in sev-
eral ways. To begin with, there was the
excellent response to the Red Cross Drive,
and in connection with this, has been the
sale of Tuberculosis Seals. Further was
the .collection made of old clothes for
Crgssnore School, and then, too the ob-
servance of Golden Rufe Sunday, when
the funds saved were sent to the Near
East Relie€&% Finally, the response to the
campaign put on for Bariner Elk School
has shown the fine spirit that prevails
among the student body. This drive
met greater success than any other ever
put on, and they wish to express their
gratitude over the results. The goal was
reached through the able committee in
charge and by the co-operation of the
students. So that together, the drive
went over in fine shape. Things such as
these go to show just how Davidson men
feel about such enterprises and the re-

Y and its officers,

“My, the old school is going to the dogs.”
“Yep. I’ve been out a couple, of years
myself.”

“Any fat people in your family ?” |
“Yes, my uncle and aunt. They were so
fat when they got married the wedding guests
threw puqffed rice at them.”—The Plains-

man,

Honor System at
Duke is Discussed

Durham, Dec. 14, (CP)—In a meeting
of the Duke University student council
held here last night, the question of the
honor system was thoroughly discussed,
and the eduncil believing that the fear
of the law is one of the greatest aids in
its enforcement, passed a_ resolution
whereby the name of every individual who
is convicted of an infraction of the honor
code as set forth in the laws of the Men’s
Association, sliall be published in the
college paper. :

Student self-government at Duke, as in
many other universities, has been under
fire, and the council considered its action
altogether expedient for the carrying out
of its functions. It is understood that: the
practice of publishing names of students
convicted is not commonly accepted
among the schools which have the honor
system, and this experiment may prove a
panacea for other institutions faced with
the same problem.

First Knight: “How now, Sir Aggravate,
wouldst call yonder knave crosseyed ?”

Twelfth Knifht: “Forsooth, fair sir,
crosseyed indeed. Yon knave, once spent
weeks in Florida looking for the Northwest
Mounted Police.”—Kansas Sour Owl.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

(

printing of any description, see
M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Charlotte, N. C.
ee ee)

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of
water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds.

No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our

SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY,
g The-cost is a trifle compared with the protection.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STER CARSON (’13)~Megr.

FOR EVERY MEMBER °
OF

THE FAMILY

Whether it-be for mother, father, brother

or sister you will

find here something

suitable for each particular person.

QUALITY GIFTS

AT EXTREMELY

REASONABLE PRICES

TATE-BROWN CoO.

