4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER §&, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
As tion

FOUNDED BY CLASS'OF "15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in: the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published

- BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD ..-...-.----------

Editor-in-Chief
..-Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Ni “BROWN cetasesocus cea cuicaesecuk Managing Editor
PRITCHETT --Managing Editor
. MORIARITY -- Managing Editor
LAKE .....-2../ .-Athletic Editor

Editor
Editor

Editor
i Editor
Editor

Are DOAS>
foleie elo rataerel

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY....-.----- Assistant Business Manager
S -Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
.-.-.--Subscription Manager

By OW eDIGRSONGsuscc esses oo eases Circulation Manager

GS) Wi MORRIS: ccsccccacccesusaveccdescs Solicitor

W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor

By MEGA TS iia ves ce lecspecsadutaccsGuacscuesuseuas Solicitor

Reporters’ Club

W._H. BAILEY UpgdekecuousaseseessouSsaseors President
slabs bY eeeebsccdscconnscaccuccdcascousectenantn Vice-President
SeyRie GRATAMG ro cccuccccccce cosas ..-Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. V

W._H. BEST Ww. B

E, T. EDELMAN F. D.

E. S. HEEFNER V. A.

M. K. HENDERSON Cc. M. PRATT

R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES

F. W.. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE BANNERS ELK DRIVE

A very worthy project wil be presented to
the Davidson College student body the latter
part of this week in the‘drive for funds for
scholarships at the Lees-McRae Institute at
Banners Elk, N. C. This institution is lo-
cated in the heart of the mountains of north-
western North Carolina, its students are
boys and girls from the country surround-
ing the school, and its teachers are extreme-
ly capable men and women. Although there
is a hospital, a girls’ school, a boys’ school,
and an orphanage in the plant, the money
given by the Davidson students will be de-

voted to scholarships for worthy students

in the boys’ department.

It is the plan of the “Y” cabinet to get
at least as much in this drive as was donated
Warren Cox the years he was being sup-
ported by the Davidson. student body when
he was in China. If this amount is pledged,
it will mean that at least twenty mountain
boys can afford to attend this school. Each
boy will be given so much of his tuition by
the Davidson scholarships, the rest of this
he will earn ‘himself during the school year.

None of the money donated will be used
for the upkeep of the grounds, or as an en-
dowment for new- buildings or ‘any help
along this line. Banners Elk has an excel-
lent plant at present.. Their greatest need
is to provide help for the students in order
that they may attend school there. A group
of Davidson men were sent to inspect the
school before it was decided to help its stu-
dents with scholarships. These men were
deeply impressed with the magnitude of the
work being accomplished in this plant, the
wonders that it will work in the future, and
the excellent buildings with which the school
is provided, The boys” building is at present
only a temporary one, since this is the first
year that the boys’ department has been
functioning there. The girls’ dormitory, the
administration building, the hospital build-
ing, the dining hall, and the institute church
are all permanent buildings constructed of
mountain stones.| The orphanage is also a
permanent building. Plans are being for-
mulated for the immediate construction of a
permanent building for the boys dormitory
and this should be completed within the next
year or so.

At present there are only forty boys ap-
proximately who are attending the insti-
tute. Since this is the first year however at
the new location, this is considered an ex-
cellent showing. With the aid of the David-
son scholarships, twenty or more wili' be
added to this list along, with the increased

‘enrollment from students aided in other

ways. :

It is Biieult.to realize the vast possibili-
such a work as this without actually

Bt

e. %

t opportunity for the
to accomplish real

Editor

nt and seeing the students |
ellen

‘donated from the stu-: |

dénts for this ptitpose. There should not be
a single student who will refuse to give
something to this cause.

CHRISTMAS SEALS

ITHIN the next few weeks ‘pre-

ceding Christmas an organized
drive is being conducted over the
country to sell Christmas seals.
Proceeds from the sale of these
seals will be devoted to an attempt
to stamp out tuberculosis in the
United States. Some of the proceeds will be
used in sending out literature all over the
country encouraging sane observance of
natural health laws. It is quite evident to
all who have ever heard of the Christmas
seals sale that it is an excellent opportunity
to help a great cause, even though it be in a
small way. These seals have been sold for a
number of years and striking results have
been evidenced in the forwarding of this
project.

It should be realized however, that this
sale is not confined to any one locality, but
an organization efficiently organized is
spread all over the country in an effort to
forward this movement. The funds are con-
trolled by a national office and the ‘sale of
the little seals is controlled through them.
In this regard it might be well to mention
that their work in attempting to stamp out
this dreaded disease is also spread out over
the éntire country. If one were considering
the movement from a selfish viewpoint; he
would readily see that he would be benefit-
ted materially from his investment by being

. assured that the national association is do-

ing all that it can to eradicate this scourge
in every state.

The price of these seals is rather conser-
servative particularly in proportion to the
work that is accomplished by them, and it
seems unnecessary almost
to bring the matter before
the public. It is merely in
the nature of a reminder to
those few who might for-
get that these seals are now
on sale. A few cents or a
few dollars contributed to this undertaking
will be used to greatest advantage and no
one need fear that his money will be wasted.
A worthy project such as this needs the co-
operation of all men on the campus and it fs-
hoped that everyone will donate his bit to”
this work.

Open Forum

The Open Forum department is always open for '
student discussion expressing opinions on any sub-
jects. All articles must be signed and in the
hands of the Editor by 7:30 Monday, night.

Winter is here again, and with it the revival of
the manly and heroic sport of Snowballing fresh-
men, That element of the student body who can
find no interest in the intellectual lines of col-
legiate activity have taken up this: daring sport
with great enthusiasm, and once more throughout
the hours of a recent Sabbath afternoon the build-
nigs of this Christian-institution have reverberated
with the scarcely religious howl of ‘Fresh out!”
Once more the Sabbath quet has been outraged
by poundings on locked doors and streams of pro-
fanity directed at the hapless freshmen behind
them.

The purpose of this article is not to condemn
the practice of this perfectly natural act too hastily
or to berate those engaged in it. But, as we like
to style ourselves mien and gentlemen, it seems
wise to question practices such as this which we
hold in common with every prep school, and to
consider seriously whether they are worthy to
characterize Davidson men.

In the first place, is it manly to attack any men
who are forbidden to defend themselves, even if
if they are freshmen? It seems rather which like
the so-called “sportsmen” who derived their sport
from shooting captive game which was liberated
just in front of the gun. It is neither sporting
nor gentlemanly to engage in a contest giving
your opponent no chance at all. No one but a
coward and a cad would be guilty of such an act
thoughtfully.

Obviously then, the practice of snowballing’
freshmen as it is practiced at Davidson is due to
thoughtlessness. But _thoughtlessness gives the
impression at least of undeveloped mentality and
lack of consideration for others, which are dis-
tinctly unmanly traits. Is it the desire of the Da-
vidson student body that such should be the im-
pression made on impartial observers through any
avoidable lack of thought on our part? Several

outsiders have described us in no uncertain terms

as “prep schoolboys,” “infants,” and “morons.”
Shall we not do away with that impression by.
stopping a custom that is undoubtedly cowardly,
ungentlemanly, and totally ynworthly of David-
son men and well-bred gentlemen?
NIG ay Baile ome aie emioest. Nan Pell ta,

a

ws Enrique

4@ ST AD

ss Clad

Reproduced by courtesy of THE NEW YORKER

The Smith Brothers start out for vengeance

Collegiate Comment

The Beta Sigma Alpha fraternity at Mercer
University is now a national organization, The
purpose of this fraternity is to develop Boy
Scouts and aid in scout work as much as possible.
A prospective member must have been a first
class scout affiliated with some troop before he is
eligible for membership into the fraternity. Plans
are now under way to establish chapters at several
other nearby colleges. j

The new athletic field at Roanoke College is
rapidly nearing completion. Work on this field
was begun last August and the field will be com-
pleted within the next few weeks, The construc-

‘tion of the field was made possible by gifts from

various alumni.

The grain judging team from N. C. State Col-
lege won first honors at the International Live-
stock and Grain’ Exposition held recently in Chi-
cago.

Georgia Tech won the S, I. C. championship last
Saturday by defeating the University of Georgia
12to 0, The S.I. A. A. championship is still rath-
er undecided, several teams unable to meet each
other during the season. Centenary and Chatta-
nooga are the main contenders for the title.

A horseshoe pitching contest and tournament
was recently held at N. C. State. Much interest
in the game is also being evidenced at the Uni-
versity of Alabama.

W. J. Bailey, of Clinton, S. C., recently gave
$10,000 to Presbyterian College to be used in im-
proving the athletic field and facilities of the col-
lege, provided that an additional fund of $15,000
more can be raised.

Interest in inter-collegiate hockey among the
girls’ schools of the south is growing rapidly.
Sweet Briar College recently defeated the West-
hampton team from the University of Richmond
4 to 1. The co-ed team from’ William and Mary
left last week for a week’s trip playing four games
while on the road.

The following interesting editorial appeared re-
cently in the Harvard Crimson: ‘

Yale wants a bulldog; Columbia wants a sta-
dium; Princeton cries for the municipal vote; Cor-
nell would like to see prohibition enforced; Michi-
gan objects to the auto-ban; Dartmouth advocates
acceptance of the Hopkins proposal; Washington
seeks its stolen siren and pleads for a continuance
of the pajama parade’ custom; Amherst wants Sat-
urday night dates with Smith; Smith argues for
automobile riding after dark; Vassar maintains the
cause of smoking for women. age

Few are the colleges of today whose student
newspapers are not stands of liberty and advance
agents for the millenium, Unsolicited criticism is
being’ done. Whereas the organs of undergrad-
uate opinion were once merely antiphonal choruses
of faculty sentiments they are now upholders of
various degrees of insurgency. Give a student

veditor an idea, an object which he may. view with

alarm and a typewriter, and within a week he will

f have raised the. foundations. of -his college _and_|}:

made the Associated Press and The New Student
in addition, .The undergraduate press room has
seen and is seeing red.

Wisconsin wants a completed Union; Oregon
wants the freedom of speech; Syracuse demands
that the Syracuse type. be defined now and for-
ever; Illinois wanted to beat Iowa; Purdie wants
a band like Indiana’s and Indiana wants a football
team like Purdie’s.

The annual convention of the Southern Federa-
tion of College Students will be held at the Uni-
versity of Alabama in April, 1928. This convention
was held last year at the University of Kentucky.

Carson-Newman was elected to membership in
the Southern Federation of Colleges at the con-
vention held recently in Jacksonville, Fla. This
means that Carson-Newman is now rated as an
accredited college of A clasgification.

In a news story appearing in the V. P. I. weekly
a detailéd account of a literary society meeting
was given. In this account the following statment
was made: “Professor Bray brought out some
very interesting points on Free Love which proved
to very interesting to everyone present.”

Harvard University has definitely entered the
field of visual education by making a contract with
Pathe Exchange of New York. The cinema con-
cern will select from its film library a series of
shots illustrating ,the subject of Anthropology.
The second branch of science to be aided by these
films will be Geology. Films will be selected by

a group of professors from Harvard.

The following rather startling headline appeared
in Ohio State daily: “Co-ed to Replace Cow as
Ohio State Beauty.”

With the aid of the General Electric and West-”

inghouse corporations, Cornell University will have
«a broadcasting station in 1928.

Miss Margaret Long, an assistant in the exec-
utive offices of Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, has in her possession a dress worn at a ball
given to General Lafayette in Philadelphia in 1784.

Only seventeen letters were awarded to mem-
bers of the football squad of Roanoke College this
year,

_A Mustache Club has been founded at Mercer
University. Reports have it that general senti-
ment on the campus is heartily opposed to such
an organization. :

At the University of Kentucky for the past sem-
ester the scholarship average of fraternity men
and also higher than the! general average of the
entire student body. |

|

|. Since the McCormick cotton picker was placed
on the market a month ago a new picker has
come into being. The machine works like a
vacuum cleaner and with it one man can pick a
bale a day. Negro cotton pickers will look upon
it with disfavor. Se Se eee ee

o
