. THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927 ©

.| back to cramping custom. Proof of well-es-
tablished custom is stronger than law. Cus-
tom is tradition, and tradition is religion.
Her people, dwell too much on the accom-
plishments of the past, forgetting the pres-
ent, and making no preparation for the fu-
tyre.

Mr. Joachim treated the caste system very
briefly, outlining the four castes of his coun-
try, the Brahmins or priests, the warriors, the
merchants and farmers, and the lowest caste,
the slaves. The pessimistic philosophy of the
caste system has done more to paralize In-
dia’s growth than -any other thing. _ Once
born.a slave, always a slave—the bar of caste
can never be broken. The lowest caste, slave,
is comprised of 67,000,000 people who live a
life of abject servility. Their faculties are
numb, their condition is pathetic. Their chil-
dren are excluded from schools, they must
not use the public highways, and even dogs,
cows, and other animals are given better
treatment than the slaves. The cruel philos-
ophy that they must pay for the misdeeds of
their family centuries ago has robbed them
of any conception of what life is. Mr. Joa-
chim said that it was due to the state of
these 67,000,000 of his people that he became
a Christian. His own religions had not
brought peace and happiness to the mass of
the people after centuries of trial, and the

FIVE SENIORS RECEIVE ,

(Continued from page one)
the student body and have won recognition in
lines other than scholastic.

Howard. began a notable college career
when he made the highest grade on his
Freshman psychological examination that had
ever been made at Davidson. He has been
on the honor roll during all three years of
his college course-and .has an average of
something over 98 for these years. He is a
member of the Glee Club, Omega Phi. Alpha
and the International Relations Club. His
social fraternity membership is with the
Pyramid Club.

Arbuckle’s bid follows his election to Omi-
cron Delta Kappa by only a few days. He
has distinguished. himself particularly in mili-
tary lines, having the commission of cadet
major of the R. O. 'T. C. Battalion and being
a member of the national military fraternity,
Scabbard and Blade. He is president of the
Eumenean Literary Society, member of Al-
pha Phi Epsilon,,a former member of the
Beaver Club and of the class basketball team.

_ His name has been on the honor roll all
during his college life at Davidson. He is a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity.

C. G, Davidson has also been an honor roll
man and a participant in student activities.
He is a member of the Forensic Council
which directs all intercollegiate debating for
the college. He was a member of the Beaver
Club during his Sophomore year and is now
a member of Sigma Upsilon, national literary 4
organization. Davidson is a member of Beta
Theta fraternity,

J. S. Grey is a member of the Glee Club
and of the’ Symphony Orchestra and has held
this membership since his Freshman year.
His interest in Latin and Greek hag been es-
pecially strong and has placed his name on
the honor roll of his class for two years.
Physics also claims his interest as he is a
member of Sigma Pi Sigma. His ability in
the philosophical field was rewarded with
membership in Omega Phi Alpha.

McAllister, besides his scholastic activities,
has become one of the leading actors of the
Red and Black Masquers, and for the past
two years has been a star in both Dramatic
Club performances and in Glee Club presen-
tations. His interests have been widespread
and varied as he has been identified with
many leading organizations of the college.
His social fraternity is Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

CALCUTTA GRADUATE

for these miserable people. |
The women of India ore undeniably handi- |
capped in their social opportunities. They |
live entifely for their husband and children,
they receive no privileges, do not even own
themselves. Their whole life may be said to
be a passionate reverence for their husbands.

Speaking very briefly of educational In-
dia, Mr. Joachim declared that his country
was top-heavy. Ninety-four per cent of his
people are illiterate, yet there are more uni-
versity graduates in his country than in
America and Great Britain. The big reason
for this is that 92 per cent of those who en-
ter high school finish the university. Edu-
cational standards are high, the curriculum
at Calcutta being on a par with that of Ox-
ford University, in England, and recognized
as such by the British government.

Relations between Great Britain and India
are unparalleled in history. Although Brit-
ain has made many very serious mistakes in
her Indian policy, she has developed that vast
country tremendously, building roads, stamp-
ing out plagues, policing the barbarous in-
terior, and stimulating foreign trade. Brief
mention .was made of Ghandi and his means
of breaking the spirit of the British govern-
ment, the methods of passive resistance and
non-co-operation,

(Continued from page 1)

has a claim to the oldest civilization in the
world. India is the cradle of great religions,
having given rise to Buddhism, Brahmanism,
Zoroastrianism, and Hinduism. Sociology,
ethics and religion comprise true Indian cul-
ture. ;

India is a place where everything roots

In closing, Mr. Joachim emphasized the
necessity of a unity of nations and closer um-
derstanding between all people in order that
such a world association ot nations might
bring about peace and progress.

for
BEATEN BISCUITS “

POTATO CHIPS
AND

Also orders
taken for feeds,
special entertainments,

and home made candies SANDWICHES

see

MISS MINNIE

AT THE THEATRES

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
OCTOBER 24 and 25

Ramon Navarro in BEN HURR

WEDNESDAY
October 26, Thomas Meighan in A City Gone Wild

THURSDAY
Octoher 27th, Billie Dove in An American Beauty —

} FRIDAY
October 28th, Adolphe Menjou in A Gentleman of Paris

: SATURDAY
‘October 29th, Tom Mix in Tumbling River

Jacket-Tar Heel Game
Features §.1.C. Program

Many Interesting Games Will be
Played: Next Week :

Southern Conference teams, after a
terrific week-end last Saturday, are ex-
pected to engage each other in another
series of hard games this Saturday.

Georgia Tech, flushed from a brilliant
victory over Alabama, three years sou-
thern champions, will entertain the Uni-

in Atlanta. A_ slight let-down on the
part of the Yellow Jackets will give the
Tar Heels a fighting chance to take this |
game from the prospective southern |
champs. In Columbus, Ga., the Georgia |
Bulldogs engage the Auburn Plainsmen, |
and are heavy favorites, since dissension |
and lack of morale have almost wrecked |
the 1927 edition of the Auburn football |
machine. Alabama will have a nice bat- |
tle with Sewanee at Birmingham; cae
da will try to avenge her North Carolina |
defeat at the hands of Davidson when |
she: meets North Carolina State in Tam- |

teachings of Christ seemed to be the way out|in Columbia in what promises to be a |
|tight game; and V. P. I. comes to grips |

| cates the practical manner in which the au-

_| pleton and Company, of New York. It has

|
pa; South Carolina and Clemson tie up|

with Cavaliers of Virginia at Charlottes- |
ville. Kentucky and W. & L. will fur-|
nish a thriller; Mercer plays Howard in
Macon; Erskine invades Furman terri-
tory distinctly the “under. dog;” Davidson
tackles Wake Forest; Citadel meets New-
berry; and the Elon-Guilford and Wof-
ford-P, C, games hold much~éntertain-
ment in-store.

In the East, North Carolina’s interest
will follow Duke into the haunts of the
Navy, where the Blue Devils will give the
Middie a whale ofagame;Dartmouth
meets Harvard at Cambridge, and is the
favorite; Army travels to the Yale Bowl;
Penn State plays Syracuse; and Prince-
tom will met|Syracuse.

Football fans will be given some real
thrills this week while these teams are
mixing it up.

Wake Forest Game
Will Not be Given

There will be no play by play report of
the Davidson-Wake Forest game Sat-
urday, since an insufficient number ex-
pressed a desjre to attend. Monday at
chapel, Harllee Branch asked for a show-
ing of hands of all who would be present
in the gymnasium for a detailed report
of the game Saturday. Only about thirty-
five hands were raised, not enough to
warrant the expense of telegraphing
the plays. However, the results of the
game will.be reported by quarters and
posted in the window of White’s Drug
Store.

Play by play reports were sent in from
the Florida and Wofford games, much to
the enjoyment of those present. Harlee
Branch and Bob Platt announced the
Florida returns, while Ernest Milton sent
them up from the field at Gainesville, C.
C. Trabue was in charge of announcing
the returns from.Wofford. Both of these
times the games were graphically cart-
ed on a blackboard. Enough was taken
in at the door to cover the expenses.

ECONOMIC SUBJECTS ARE

(Continued from page one)

volved is followed by description of the dif-
ferent uses to which each type may be put.”

The Dayton News says: “In simple, prac-
tical form the requirements of the business
man and of the ordinary buyer of insurance
are fully elucidated to cover insurance of any
and every type.”

“The plan of the book,” as quoted from the
New York Commercial Appeal, “is first to
give an easy viewpoint from which to study
detailed parts of the subject.”

From the Boston Post: “This system of
working out individual life insurance indi-

‘thor has treated
throughout.”

The New York World, in discussing the
subject matter, makes this statement: “For
the man, then, who is interested in insurance
and who is looking for a good book to aid
him in intelligently choosing a desirable con-
tract best suited to his interests and secur-
ity, we offer ‘Every Man’s Insurance.’”

Newspapers and magazines from the Pa-
cific to the Atlantic have carried articles dis-
cussing this work showing its wide promi-
nence. The book was published by D. Ap-

the: insurance subject

versity of North Carolina on Grant Field |

; :
|“ Column |
|

| The speaker at Y for this Sunday will

Fe Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte. Mr.

| Glasgow is a prominent business man in
| Mecklenburg county, and is well known
section. This will make
hat he has come up to
e has al-

| throughout this
ithe sixth year t
| speak to Davidson men, and h
| ways brought a worthwhile message, one
l that has never failed to be of the high-
est inspirational type, and well worth

hearing.

Vespers at 6:15

Y—
Dont forget Charlie Paddock. He’ll be
here soon.

|

—_Y—

| The deputation that was sent to Gas-

tonia was composed of Camper O'Neal
and Bill Hill, instead of Allan Frew. The
men that went report a fine trip and a
very successful deputation.
Y
The Y is at this time trying to secure
Dr. Motte Martin, of Africa, to lead the
Foreign Mission dnstitute, which will be
held later on in the year. Dr. Martin
is-considered by many to be the greatest

| living missionary, and is a very capable

leader in mission work. He has been
decorated by the King of Belgium, and
was very intimately connected with Pres-
ident Wilson during the World War. He
is also a representative of the Southern
Presbyterian Church, and is prominently
affiliated with the Church at large. A
leader in his work, and a really big man.
More details about the Institute later.
Watch for them:

HG, | aN
While the Y is attempting to get Dr.
Martin, as mentioned above, the services
of Dr. Wade C. Smith are also being
sought. Dr. Smith, of Richmond, is well
known as the editor of the little Testa-
ment called “Fishers of Hen,” and it is as
one of the great leaders of the Personal
Work Insfitute that he is being sought.
The. Y hopes ‘to bring these two men
here, although ‘no definite arrangements
have been made as yet.
ee
ed 2,000 copies. A second edition is forth-
coming.
Dr. Brown’s book, “State Movement in
Railroad Development,” gives the story of
North Carolina’s first attempt or effort to
establish a railroad extending from the coast
westward across the state—an east to west
trunk line. It deals with the successes and
failures of this first undertaking.

In discussing the development of a rail-
road which would provide for adequate trans-
portation facilities across the state, Dr,
Brown gives the historical setting of the
movement in which the State itself played the
chief part.

The first agitation for cross-state trans-
portation began about 1888. The result was
the construction of some four hundred miles
of railway extending from Beaufort on the
Atlantic, passing through Raleigh, Greens-
boro, Salisbury, Statesville, and westward to
Asheville. From Salisbury, a branch was
extended to Charlotte.

The thing worthy of note is that the origi-
nal undertaking was sponsored by the state
itself. It was the principal stockholder’ of
the lines, having control of about two-thirds
of the money invested.
know that at this time nothing important took
place that was not influenced by these early
railroads, ; 3

A second movement, not included in ithe
book, deals with the railroad built from Wil-
mington to Mt. Airy and Greensboro in
1890.

More recently in 1924 this matter of cross-
State transportation was taken up in a pro-
posal which involved eight millions of dol-
lars to build a port and‘a trunk line connect-
ing points in the state with the port. It was
aimed at the high freight rate. Because

PRINTING |

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
. Charlotte, N.C.

passed through its first edition, which includ-

It is interesting to4,

] Week End Guests

|

Young lady guests and visitors to the
hill during the last week-end included:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: The Misses
Alice Yorke, Concord; Margaret Daw-
}son, Converse; Nancy Lee Cannon, Con-
| cord; Ann Osteen, Winthrop; Mary Ed-
/na Be‘l, Converse ;“Mayme Thomas, Con-
verse; Frances McCormick, Salem; Rock-
| Prince, Converse; Margaret Holt,
Burlington; Phoebie Phelpes, Hollins;
Elizabeth Holmes, N. C. C. W.; Craig
Pegram, Charlotte; Elizabeth Simpson,
Greensboro; Marion Clark, Columbia, S.
C.; Louise McTavish, Monroe; Edna Mc-
Call, Winthrop; Roberta Fowler, Lex-
ington.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Eugenia Mc-
Lean, Lumberton; Bob Jenkins, Rosalie
Wiley, Tootie Rideouf, Pea Witherspoon,
Sa'isbury; Penelope Cannon, Jennie
Prown, CGoncord; Elizabeth and Lillian
Parker, Gastonia; Betty Dunlap and Etis
Matheson, Winthrop; Frances Devant,
Charlotte; Martha Galloway, Raleigh.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Hazel Hud-
son, Salisbury; Nonie Withers, Ida Alli-
son, Elizabeth Wharton, Elle Hardman;
Charlotte; Audrey Brinagre, Mocksville;
Janet Rowe, Sarah Efird, Mary Creech,
Winston-Salem; Frances Weeks, Hen-
dersonville; Louise Webb, Concord;
Elizabeth Bailey, Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Elizabeth Dar-
ling, Greensboro; Lil Montgomery, York,
S. C.; -Miriam Weeks, Hendersonville;
Rena Yates, Converse; Eva Hackney,
Salem; Araminta Gant Greensboro; Isa-
bel Dunn, Salem; Billy McDonald, Salem;
Mrs. N. W. Gant, Greensboro.

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Frances
Whisnant, Shelby; Temple McCurdy, N.
C. C. W.; Agnes Rice, Winthrop; Edith
Britt, N. C. C. W.; Sarah Austell, Shelby.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Emma Cothran,
Queens; Hortense Cobb, Winthrop; Hal-
lie Carson, Winthrop; Martha -Bragaw,
Converse; Kalista Hood, Davidson, N.
C.; Eleanor Holt; Winthrop; Sallie Shank,
Charlotte; Fannie Dial, Washington, D.
C.; “Jennie Wolfe, Charlotte; Dolly
Moore, Queens; Anne McLaurin, Char-
lotte; Cleo McLaurin, Charlotte; Chris-
tine McCrary, Lexington; Frances Flet-
cher, Salem; Elizabeth Norfleet, Win-
ston-Salem.

Sigma Delta: Misses Eleen Hutchins,
Converse; Agnes M*4nsfield, Converse;
Agnes Steel, Converse; Martha*Hill, Con-
verse; Olive Russell, Converse; Martha
Phifer, Converse; Ellen Gilbert, Con-
verse; Elizabeth White, Converse; Mar-
garet Massie, Rock Hill; Gilane Hall,
Burlington; Susan Crook, Converse;
Maoy Ward, Winthrop.
———————SSSSS=Lg —_— — —_ —
North Carolina does not have such a port
and trunk line its rates are considerably high-
er as compared with Virginia.

Another interesting feature of the book is
the Bond Scandal of the Carpet Bag period.
Bonds, amounting t@ seven millions of’ dol-
lars, raised for the West- North Carolina
Railroad, were squandered. S

The book contains 400 pages and is of oc-
tave size. In it are maps showing early rail-
ways in the state and also reproductions of
very old passes.

It is understood that the first edition will
contain 800 copies. The publishers, the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Press, expect to
have the book off the press by the middle of
December. The sale price is $5.00 per copy.

DATE OF CAROLINA GAME

dale

(Continued from page 1)
on the days of. the Wake Forest and State

games. The committee was able to grant but
one of the days, and the student body de-
cided that that should be the day of the State
game, November 5th. Chapel will be omitted,
breakfast served early and classes begin at
8:00 o'clock and end at 11 or soon thereafter.
The busses will leave. from the rear of the
armory immediately after the classes are dis-
missed, taking three hours for the trip. They
will leave Greensboro not later than 9:00
p. m. that night on the return trip. The
Band will make this trip free of charge. It
is believed by many that this is one of the
most difficult games of the year, and will
therefore take the support of the whole stu-
dent body.

COLLEGE MASQUERS

(Continued from page one)
Mills, S. W. Smith, W. R. Wolf, R. H. Wal-
ton, E. G. Epes, J.G. Berry, A. F. Carr, N.
M. Coney, W. M. Hunter, S. Meacham, 11.
M. Moffett, James Campbell, James Watt, O.
B. Long, Watson Wharton, Alex Warren,
and Tom Brohard. |

