THE

Vol. XIV

FOR AB

ETTER

D

AVIDSON

&

Third Year Men Vote to Retain Junior __
Speaking ‘Program by Large Majority

Class Ravors Program as a
Traditional Event

LITTLE OPPOSITION

Vote Comes as a Result of Unfavor-
able Article—Oratorical Pre-
liminaries . Postponed

The Junior class, at a meeting held last
Monday morning,’ voted practically unani-
mously to continue Junior Speaking at Da-
vidson. The vote came as a result of agita-
tion against the event stirred up by an article
which appeared in Thé Davidsonian of Feb-
ruary 24th.

The article denounced the present Junior
Speaking policy with its heavy expenditures
and called for some action to correct the evil.
Members of the Junior Week Committee,
not wishing to carry on their plans withoyt
the support of the class, immediately re-
quested that a meeting be called to discuss
the matter. At the meeting several members
of the class spoke in favor of the program,
but no, one arose to oppose it. The following
vote showed that by far the majority of the
class wished to retain “Davidson's only sig-
nificant social event.” With the assurance of
the class behind them, the committee is fast
pushing a well rounded program to com-
pletion.

The Juniors will bring several organiza-
tions to Davidson during the remainder of
the year to give performances. The proceeds
will help defray the expenses of the speaking
program. The Converse College Glee Club
will appear in Shearer Hall Friday,
March 11th, in program music and
mirth. Further announcement will be made
about the performance during the coming

on

a of

(Continued on page 7)

Quips and Cranks

Nears Completion

Assurance has been made by the editor of
the Annual, Don Wharton, that the Annual
will be ready for delivery by May Ist.
ports were also made that indicate that the
annual will be much .better than last year's
{A larger annual, more entertaining write

Re

| ups, and more attractive pictures have been
intimated by the different editors of the staff

The first noted improvement is the fact
}that this year’s annual will be much larger.
Whereas
pages, the annual of 1926-27 will have 316
pages, a difference of 48 pages. This will
make the “Quips and Cranks” about the
largest annual that has been published at Da
vidson,

Proofs for the entire book, as far as pic-

last year’s annual only had 268

tures%are concerned, have gone to the print

ers, This will enable the printers to make
the first printing of the entire book this
week,

On last Monday, all class pictures, hon
orary fraternities,
group pictures were mounted
pravers,

and other
the en-
This will enable the printers to
complete the printing of pictures in March.
Not only will all the pictures be turned into
the engravers, but also it was announced that
all copy for them must
hands by the end of the week.

fraternities,

for

in the editor's
Several of the

he

the written matter.

Business Manager C. W. Williams report-
ed that a great number of
have been secured, and that the “Quips and

ers have already. been ordered for 675 an
nuals,

Army Officials to Come Here in April ©

to Inspect Battalion for Honor Rating

Commission to’ Decide Whether
Davidson Unit Will Receive
Distinctive Rating Again

The R. O. T. C. Department of .Davidson
College has again been recommended for the
War Department Inspection. This recom-
mendation followed the inspection made be-

fore Christmas by the Commander of the |

Corps Area. The inspection will take place
some time in April, according to information
now in the hands of the department here.

The inspection is made by three officers of
the general staff located at Washington, D.
C. There are three boards in Washington to
cover the whole United States, which is di-
vided into three sections, called the Western,
the Southern, and the New England.

All of the colleges that have a R. O. T. C.
unit are placed in one*of these sections and
if recommended for War Department In-
spection is reviewed by the board in charge
of that area. All of the units are graded up-
on a basis of 100 per cent and are listed ac-
cording to their rating. The top 25 per cent
is then taken and given the honor.

The inspection proper is divided into three
parts. The first part is “Support of R. O.
T. C. by institution and student body.” Un-
der this head is grouped the adequacy of
facilities for instruction, care or arms, cloth-
ing and all equipment, offices and recitation
rooms. The percentage of students accept-
ing commissions and the condition, of all
equipment issued to the college, and the
academic credits given by the college to the

work. This part of the inspection is rated at |

25 per cent.

The second part of the inspection is called
“Efficiency of Theoretical Instruction.” This
is allowed 30 per cent of the total and is di-
vided into two parts:
method8 and organization of classes and a
test of the students in subject matter of their
courses.

(Continued on page 6)

Efficiency of teaching |

Prominent Lawyer
Talks to Students.

“The lawyer of today,”. declared Hon. EF.
R. Preston, Charlotte: lawyer, speaking be-
fore a group of Davidson College students
attending the third address of the Vocational
Guidance Institute, “should get all the scien-
tific training that he can possibly obtain, in
stead of following the old method of major-
ing in the ancient classics.”

He gave as his reason for this assertion
the fact that most of the lawsuits nowadays
involve some problem of machinery and en-
| gineering. Enlarging upon this idea, the
Charlotte lawyer said that a man-af-that pro-
'fession should have a working knowledge of
chemistry and physics, because “we are liviig

in an age of scientific achievement and in-
dustrialism.”

Mr. Preston gave and defined the three
‘types of lawyers—the corporation, the dam-
age and independent. While not disparaging
the others, he suggested that students desir-
|ing to enter this profession should be inde
pendent lawyers in order that they might not
| be subjected to any man.

The visitor described a composite lawyer
of today. He maintained that he should not
be rich nor aspire to riches, but should be
comfortably fixed, with the sole desire of
serving his clientele. The composite lawyer
‘should further be highly respected in his com-
| munity, and a leader in all ciyic endeavor.
“He need not necessarily be-a politician,”
|averred the speaker, “for lawyers are no
| longer the only politicians.” Politics itself,
he declared, is coming to be a specialized pro-
| fession.

High ideals should characterize the lawyer,
| stated Mr. Preston. ‘He should be a man of
| sterling character, for it is untrue that all
lawyers are cheats and crooks. He would be

(Continued on page 6)

members of the faculty are now censoring |

advertisements |

Cranks” will be a financial success also. Cov-*

Tom Anderson, one of the most brilliant
cagers seen at Davidson in recent Years, sang
his swan song last Saturday night by hand
ing Duke a thorough trouncing.
years he has played on the Wildcat team, be

lor three

ing captain during the Jast, his Senior year.
As usual he has set the pace for his team
mates, having scored almost twice as many
points as any of them.

Peace Inatitute Solicits
Funds From Local Men

Presbyterian College Plans to
Solicit Funds for Great Program
of Expansion

Peace Institute of Raleigh is preparing to
stage a campaign for the purpose of raising
funds for the further development of that
institution,
by the students themselves and all
connected with the-movement will ‘be car-
ried on by them. Efforts to raise money will

Fhis campaign will be directed
work

‘be made-at Davidson in the near future with

the hope that liberal donations will be made.

Dr. Beatty, 6f New York City, a graduate
of Westminster College, and a noted speaker
for college campaigns, spoke to Davidson
students recently and urged that the men
take an interest in the affair and contribute
to the cause.

Peace Institute is under the care and di-
rection of the Presbyterian Church and has
rendered years of valuable service. Its
products are now the leaders in every circle
of women in which they live.

Plans for expansion include the construc-
tion of Dinwiddie Chapel and the Burwell
Memorial Limrary as wings of the old main
building. Two dormitories, ‘with a capacity

‘of 96 students, will be erected on either side

of this main group and connected with it by

attractively covered arcades. The plant,

when completed, will be symmetrical in
(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Wildcats Take Final Gare of :
Basketball Season From Duke Quintet

Southern Students
Confer in Atlanta

The Southern Student Conference on In
‘ternational Relations has just completed its
fourth annual meeting, one of the best since
The. Con
Ga.,

the founding of the organization,
in’ Atlanta,
University and Agnes Scott College being
The
the following
G. MeCutcheon, Tyree Dillard,
Martin, and HH, B.

ference was held Emory

joint hosts of the occasion, Davidson
Was composed of
students: T.
W. C. Ogden,
Arbuckle.

The program was very interesting and edu
Problems of
discussed by some of the foremost speakers

delegation

Boyce

cational, world interest were
of the South, and the delegates were given
a new insight into some of these great world

The the Conference
follows: DieeAy
miller, Emory University; first vice-presi
dent, L. HH. Griffith, Presbyterian College ;
second vice-president, Sara Elen Freeman,
Edna
Mae Langston, Greenville Woman's College ;

problems, officers of

were as President, Lock

Coker College; recording secretary,

corresponding: secretary, W. EE. Almand, ém- |

fory University’ treasurer, W. A, Mabry, |

=}

Duke University. |

The delegates were given an informal re- |
ception at the Alumni Tlouse at Agnes
Scott, at 5:00 o'clock Thursday afternoon,
February 24th. At 8:30 that night a very
| interesting” intercollegiate debate took place
| between Furman University aid Emory Uni-
| versity, on the subject, Resolved, That the |
U.S. should cancel her European war debts.

ithe first half was 28-19 in favor of

| couldn't miss.

Anderson Celebrates Last Game
With 19 Points

DAVIDSON HOLDS LEAD
Game Is Featured By Fast Passing
and Many Long Shots—
Weaver Good

In a fast game Saturday night, February
26th, the Davidson Wildcats downed the
Duke quintet by the score 49-42. TJhe Wild-
eat cagers took the lead at the first of the
game and held it throughout the two periods
with comparative case, Captain Anderson,
playing brilliant basketball in the last’ ganfe
of his spectacular career, was high-point man
with a total of 19 points, one foul and nine
field) goals.

The lead of the Wildcats was never seri-
The score at the end of
David-
The remarkable shooting of the Wild-
They just

ously threatened.

son?
cats was a feature of this period.
However, in the second half,
the Blue Devils tallied a goal for every one
that the Wildeats made, and kept the Red
and Black squad from piling up a greater
lead.

Harrison played a good game at running
guard. Next to Captain Anderson in scor-
ing came Wilson, with a total of nine points.
The remaining members of the regular squad
piled up a total of seven points each. A good
many of the tallies were beautifully executed
field goals shct from-long range.

Weaver was high scorer for the visitors,

with’ six field goals to his credit. Candler

| The. main part of the program started Fri- and Bennett tied for second, each with ten

day morning, February 25th, with an address

points. The Blue Devils outdid the Wildcats

| by Dr. Emmett Kilpatrick, from the Univer- when it came to’ the number of personal

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Glee Club Scores Decisiv

(Continued on page 7)

e Hit

in Performance at Queens Auditorium

Tennis Tournament

Starts Next Week

With the arrival of spring near at hand
preparations for the annual spring tennis
for- |

tournament ,are being rapidly pushed

ward. The first regular match will be played |
April Sth, with Furman.

of lack of courts and adequate equipment

This year, because
the ladder system will be used. Inethis sys
tem the man who is defeated moves to the
rung of the ladder formerly held by his con
queror/ The positions are shifted as the
matches areplayed, and all names are to be
shifted on the same day of the match by the
Any man who refuses to play with-
has been challénged,

winner,
in two days after he
automatically changes places with his chal-
lenger, The same man can not be challenged
more than once a week, and no challenge can
be made within three days of a match,

All men who are interested in tennis are

»

requested to sign up with Manager W. R.

Carr at once. The names of the entrees will
be posted on the bottom of the list.

Manager Carr has requested that any man
taking part in the matches will please not

hold

there are others desiring to play.

any court more than one hour when

An excep-
tion to. this is made in the exception of the
varsity court, however, which will be held
open to the varsity, members at all times.
The spring tournament will be conducted
in strict accordance with the above rules.
The Freshman tournament which will begin
within the next two weeks will also be con-
ducted on this plan. |
An extensive trip is being planned for the |
tennis team. The schedule will be published |

in the next issue of The Davidsonian.

Musicians Display Talent Before
Enthusiastic Charlotte Audience
—Comedy Hit Added to
Program

The Davidson Glee Club presented its first
program of the year off the “Hill” Saturday
night at Queens College. The program Sat-
urday night was somewhat similar to that
given here on February 7th. The entire club,
with the Jazz and Symphony orchestras,
made this trip. The very
good. With start

shopes for a successful season,

attendance was
this the officials have

‘The reception, accorded the club on its
initial appearance was good, the Jazz orches-
tra making perhaps the best hit of the eve-
ning. However, Ed Wilson, premier soloist
of the club, received much applause with his
popular songs. D. G. Wilson, president of
the club last year and now, in busines at
Rock Hill, took the place of Bob Lowrance
as the other soloist. He proved to be ex-
tremely welcome, for he was called to sing
several encores.

This is the first of several trips now under
consideration by Caldwell Withers, advance
manager, Friday the club leaves for a four-
day trip through the northern part of the
state. They give their first program of the
trip at Greensboro under the auspices of the
Senior class of the Greensboro College for
Women. The following night the same pro-
gram will be repeated at the North Carolina
College for Women under the Senior. class
They remain in Greensboro
over Sunday and the following day go to
Lexington for concert under the young
people of the First Presbyterian Church of
this city. From here they go to Winston-
Salem to give a concert under the auspices of
the Senior class of Salem College of this
institution.

A trip. to South Carolina is under consid-
eration for the middle of the month. On this

(Continued on page 5)

of the school.

a
