THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

5

Hamlin Garland Lectures Tonight On
. American Authors and Reminiscences _ Vivid Picture of China

In Hamlin Garland, who comes\here
Thursday, March 31st, Davidson has one of
the foremost writers of the country. Mr.
Garland was one of the first to favor and
use the short story form and he contributed
greatly toward the popularity for the short
story has today.

Mr. Garland’s life has been a rather un-
usual one for an author. He was born in
Wisconsin and before he was 11 had mi-
grated westward three times. His early life
was spent entirely on the farm or on the
trail, and he had little chance for educating
himself. At the age of 15 he was doing a
man’s work on the farm, and continued to do
so until he was about 20.

By rather hard struggling, he
some elementary schooling and was
enter Cedar Valley at
Iowa. By hard work coupled with natural
ability, he graduated in 1881, and began
teaching school. He ceased his work along
this line in 1883, when he went further west
to settle a claim in the Dakota land “boom,”

The following year Mr. Garland went to
Boston, as both a teacher and a_ scholar.
There he did a great deal of reading and
became very much impressed and under the
influence of the French “Veri-
tists.’ Then he began to write.

First came sketches ; pictures of the west-
ern life he had lived as a boy.

secured
able to

Seminary, Osage,

school of

From these
he advanced to short stories and wrote two
of his best works, “Main Travelled Roads”
and “Paririe Folks.”

Mr, Garland found at this time that, after
his years in Boston, his homeland, the West,
appeared to him very differently—he saw it
in an entirely new light. Before, it had
seemed to him a wonderful farming country,
where the inhabitants lived settled and happy
lives. He looked upon it as the happiest and
most prosperous section of the nation in
that the people were satisfied.

But now, he saw it as°the section where
men worked themselves to death with no
actual reward for their grinding toil. There
were no hopes and no bright outlook for
the future. The grimness and primitive life
contented the people there because they had
never known the happiness and culture of a
higher civilization.

The new feeling which now came over
him gave rise to many stories, such as “Un-
der the Lion's Paw.” after novels
began to follow. The influence of Ibsen,
Hardy, Tolstoi, and Maupassant are seen in
his style and his thoughts. He did not write
for pure entertainment but had a deep pur-
pose behind every one of his works.

Soon

Letter From Cox Gives

| fused by the Chamber on the plea that they | We had seen a poor old coolie who had been
| had given all their money to their command- | conscripted by the Northerners, dying by the

Rising Juniors Out
for Cheer Leader

Candidates for Cheer Leaders

A large list of men have signified their
intention of becoming candidates the
office of cheer leader.

for
as follows: Nelson Myers, Bob Grady,
drick Pritchett, John Pope, J. T. Embry,
Douglas Wilkinson, John Bradley, and Wil-
liam McElwee.

These men come from the rising Junior
class. Just before the first football game
hext season, two men from these nine are
to be elected as assistant cheer leaders,

The candidates work during the baseball
season this year, and through the preliminary
pep meetings next fall.

Each week the candidates meet to practice
new yells and more efficient methods to pre-
sent them. Next fall a new and more ade-
quate set of yells are to be presented, along
with stunts.
that by this means new life and pep will be
put into the games.

several acrobatic It is hoped

He became prominent in the social life of
the cities where he associated with other of
He founded the Cliff
Dweller’s Club and was its first president.
He also became a member of the Arts and
Country Clubs of New York. Later, in
1918, he became a member of the American
Society of Arts and Letters.

Today Mr, (
the foremost authors of America, and Da-
vidson is indeed fortunate in having him
here. Among his best known works are:
Main Travelled Roads, Other Main Trav-
elled Roads, A Son of the Middle Border,
A Daughter of the Middle Border, Trail
Makers of the Middle Border, Prairie Songs,

his contemporaries.

These candidates are |

Ken-

,ones bringing happiness and freedom—for

story.

; : _ | shoeless
iarland is regarded as one of

Colorful Description of Looting and
Pillaging of Troops

Hangchow Christian College,

Zakew, Che., China, Feb. 25, 927.

Dear Fellows:

If you have been keeping up with the hap-
penings in China during the last few weeks
you will have seen that history has been |
made—and made much more rapidly than
usually, Here at the college we have watch-
ed history in the making, for on the road
below us, soldiers have marched and retreat-
ed; the retreating ones leaving behind them
desolation and = destruction ;

the advancing

the present.

You will remember how T wrote you about
a month ago of the coming of the Northern
troops under Sun Chuan fang, and how they
were the Southern
troops almost to the boundaries of the prov
School had to close at that time in
order to allow the students to go home and
help their people—but the North not
completely successful. The only soldiers that

successful in) driving
ince,
was

they drove out were deserters from their own }

‘ranks and who had joined the South: when

the real Southerners came it was a different

On the afternoon of February 16th things
began to happen. Crowds of ragged, dirty
soldiers passed by, on their way to Zakow, |
coming away from the front. They were |
hatless—with towels tied around their heads;

a > 2 @> @ ee a2 e@ oe

walking barefoot in the mud: cov-
ered with mud—guns, clothes and all; faces |
black with months’ unwashed accumu. |
lation, On talking to them, we found that |
underneath their Northern yniform they had |
on a Southern uniform, and that they had |
identification tags from both Northern and |

Six

| Southern armies—the latter tag securely con- |

| finished

ing general, they laid out a section of the
city for systematic looting.
about ihe
Chamber came across with the money, and

one-third of when

they all marched to the railroad station and

got aboard two trains that had been sent
from Shanghai for them.

They were not a moment too soon, for
they got out at about 12, and it was 1:30
when the first Southern troops appeared on
the road below us. They were marching, in
single file, about 15 of /them, and at their

| head was floating a new flag—a white sun

center, with 12 white sunbeams coming from
it, against a blue background. We ‘laughed
when we thought of 20,000 or more men,

| running from these few; but they were fol-

lowed by other detachments, and then the
real advance guard thousand
Evans and I walked along with the first

of a men,

scouts, and saw them catch a Northern sol
dier who was running away from Zakow,
throwing away his clothes as he ran, who ran
right into their arms. They put a_high-
power automatic to his forehead and made
shrift him: cruel to deal

short of

with captured enemy troops—but, effective.

a way

f
f

They had only |
the |

side of the road, because when he got too
tired to go on further, they had jabbed him
through the temple with a bayonet. Being
shot without mercy was “an eye for an eye.”
There were ten of the

some or more

| Northern soldiers trying to glean a last pen-
jny from the selling of provisions in Zakow,

| them,

Even the cannie Scotch pipes
now dance for joy!

who did not realize the enemy were upon
Ot a sudden the populace, farmers
and tradesmen, found guns and spears and
ancient weapons and turned upon their op-
The advance scouts joined in the
massacre, and had a wonderful time taking
pot shots at fleeing soldiers entrapped in box
cars, and between tences. One chap fled to
the Standard Oil Company's gate with three
soldiers shooting at him, and when he found
it closed, tumbled into the creek with a bul-
let in his vitals. One other, not quite so for-
tunate, fell with his head over the hridge,

pressors,

wounded, and a youth with a butcher’s knife
proceeded to hack his head off—and the knife
was dull! It was a regular miniature French
Revolution with peasants chasing soldiers :
blood in their eyes and yelling at the top of
their voices.

(Continued on page 8)

> “Ge “> O- A BS DW

The Captain of the Greyhorse Troop, and
‘he Lig > Star, ' P
The Light of the Star Northern soldiers who had
Mr. will at Davidson on! heen captured in the fighting around Nan-
Thursday, March 31st, and will lecture ™) chang last autumn, and demobilized by the
Shearer Hall in the afternoon and evening. | South. They remobilized and sent
His lecture, at 3:15 o'clock in the afternoon, | against. Chekiang, only to refuse to fight
will be on “Makers of American Literature,”

| solved the mystery, and found that they had
| originally been

Garland be

were

and at 7:30 in the evening, on “Memories of | desert to his cause.
the Middle Border.” It is expected that a} Southerners had not paid them for six

large number of the students and people of | months—which accounted for their ragged
: 5 . | appearance.
the village will attend these lectures, and it S :
‘ ‘ : | Early on the morning ef the next day, we
is assured that they will be quite worth! . ; ; ;
| found hordes of soldiers passing on the road

while. | below,

in close formation, also moving

towards Zakow. We walked along with

CLASSICAL CLUB

WITH SIX CHARTER MEMBERS

Reigivus Societies
Hold Fine Meetings

The regular meeting of the Ministerial
Band was held in Shearer hall last Sunday.
The meeting was led by J. H. Murchison.

Tom Hill and Carl Pritchett led in prayer. honorary fraternity it will funetion somewhat | cers had left for Shanghai on the preceding |

Dr. Richards was the speaker at the meet-
ing and talked on the subject, Requirements
of a Preacher. He took up first the réequire-
ment of health, both bodily and mentally.
In order to succeed, a minister has to have
an analytical mind. He has to have person-
ality. The most important requirement, how-
ever, is to have personal experience with
Jesus.

The ‘Volunteer Band held its meeting in
Shearer as usual last Sunday. “Glenn Fry

led the devotional, taking Faith as his sub- |

ject. After this part of the meeting, Fry
who has recently been elected president of
the State Union for the coming year, told a

few of the things which were taken up at!

the State Convention, held at N. C. C. W.
last Saturday. An interesting. letter from
Dr. Frank Price, missionary to Hang Chow.
was read. In his letter, Dr. Price told of
his personal experience in Hang Chow dur-
ing recent fighting in and around this city.

At the meeting Sunday the officers for the
coming ter mare to be elected, and every
member is urged to be present.

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
held a very» short meeting in Shearer on
Sunday. There was some discussion of the
deputation to represent the Davidson Class
in Charlotte next Sunday, and the subjects
on which the various members of the depu-
tation would speak. It has been announced
that a similar deputation will be sent to
Huntersville on the last Sunday in the month
of April.

them, and found that they were not retreat-
ing, but that the 8th division was being sent
back for a rest, after fighting the Southern-
ers, and that the 13th division was being
j transferred. We rather doubted this infor-

ORGANIZED ;

,

An organization,
interest on the campus among the members | didn’t seem to be running, and said they had
of the student body and the faculty who are defeated the South and didn't know wh'y
interested in the masterpieces-of-the classical | they were ordered back, On arrival in Zakow,

languages, has recently been organized under | they found that there was no engine, or train
| the name of “The Classical Club of David-| to transport them, that all the -railroad staff
|

‘son.” Although this organization is not an, had decamped, and that all their higher offi- |

|in that manner. The purpose of this group day. The soldiers began to sell their flour

is to stimulate and enliven “a greater interest and provisions to the people for a song, while

lin all the famous classics of the ancient | the rest of them started on walking te-Hang
| world. Literature accomplishments which | chow.

‘have stood the tests of hundred of years and | had neither money nor food, and made the

have been unequalled in their way by any | Chamber of Commerce come across with the |

writer of modern times, has been handed | latter. They did only a moderate amount of

down to the scholar of today and is his if looting that night, but the following morn-

he is but interested. The members of the ing, when their request for money was. re-
| club will, from time to time, carefully study |

selections from Latin and Greek literature | 54,
and will make reports on their reading. It
;is hoped that the club will produce a much
| deeper appreciation of classical literature |
| throughout the student body.

is also a member of the “D" Club and
plays center field on the baseball team. W.
in

ranking high

- scholastic endeavors and

At a meeting of the club to be held soon, He stands near the top of his class in schol-
new members will be bid. The requirements | arship,
for membership are three semesters’ work in cemeste
Latin or Greek and a manifested interest in
the work together with a good scholastic
standing in them.

Sophomore class,
campus activities.
r of his attendance here. He is deep-
ly interested in Greek and is taking the ad-
vanced course with
J. S. Gray.

The membership of the club as now or-| in Greek, and is very active in campus work,
ganized consists of Dr. Grey, Dr. Harding being a member of the varsity Emory debat-
and Professor Bailey, of the faculty, and |
J. S. Gray, H. L. Johnson and W. K.}
Pritchett, of the student body. The ¢lub |
met Tuesday night, March 22nd, elected of-
ficers and accepted a constitution presented
by Pritchett. J. S. Gray was elected presi-
dent and W. K. Pritchett was chosen secre-
tary-treasurer.

of The Davidsonian staff.

J. S. Gray, who through his scholastic
| svolde has gained the nickname “Stud,” ranks

| honor roll both semesters of his Sophomore
| year. He is a member of the Gamma Sigma
is

ir . .
Epsilon honorary fraternity. He, also,

\H. L. Johnson, a member of the Junior
class, is one of the best Latin students who :
has attended Davidson in quite a while. He | ber of the Glee Club, a good singer and het-

| interested in campus activities, being a mem-

- 7 , - |
cealed beneath layers of clothing. We finally | ¢
|

}when they met their old commander, and to |
They claimed that the |

which will créate much Mation, save for the fact that the soldiers |

When they got there they found they |

K. Pritchett is aeprominent member of the |
both |

having made the honor roll every |

Professor Bailey and |
He is Dr. Harding's assistant |

ing team, a member of the Beavers Club, and |

| fourth in the Junior class? having made the |

|
|

a a oe, Se eee
a o> > —- = S —— Se Ge = = = == = Se SSS

>,

>a >

You can bet your, Sunday kilties there’s a
wee bit o’ Scotch in every pipe and in every
pipe-smoker, too. .. for while the best to-
‘bacco in the world is nene too good for us,
it does go against our grain to spend good
money for fancy packages or costly cans.

a eS

Get the tobacco RIGHT and, as far as we
pipe-smokers go, you can cannily can the can
and save us the darby... That’s why bonnie
Granger Rough Cut has all the pipes in the
country a-doing the Highland-fling. Here’s
pipe tobacco as fine as the world affords at a
price all the world can afford. ;

#._ ~~. -3.-3.-S_ SOS

Fine old Burley, mellowed Wellman’s
way... worthy of any pipe in the world!
And paste this in your old Tam-o-shanter:
— Because the pocket-package of Granger
isa new “glassine-sealed” foil-pouch (instead
of costly tin) it sells at a price never equalled
on tobacco of such quality. Hoot mon!
It’s truly a Scotchman’s bargain!

GRANGER |

ROUGH CUT

2 > @S 2] eS D> Pp a a @ 2@ i. © BS 2 2 © 0 2 2 >

The half-pound vacuum
tin is forty-five cents;
the foil-pouch, sealed in
glassine is ten cents....

© Made
for pipes only!

Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers. Tobacco Company

—

WY LY 2? =. BP @D 2 D <P 2

a & D

is now Dr. Grey’s assistant in that language. | ter violinist.
