>

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Aseociation

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class .

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknewn source will not be published.

a Editor-in-Chief

BOYCE MARTIN ...-.--..-
---Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD -.

EDITORIAL STAFF

A. N. BROWN .....2-2o 2. 2- eee ee eee ene Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ._- ---Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ... -Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE. .Wo2 ono. oe ee ene ee eee cee ee Athletic Editor
Ww. LL. -Associate Editor
F. C. -Associate Editor
T. T. JON Associate Editor
L. C, -Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY .....- Exchange Editor
eo

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY............Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON...__-.-. --Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL... --Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON...._-.-.-.------------ Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON-. Circulation, Manager
S. W. MORRIS.. -Solicitor
W. B. McGUIR -Solicitor
E. H. McCALL... Solicitor

W._H, BAILEY. W222! ween eee nee nnn President
}: L. ELY-_--.-----. eee cane ene ener cee ee eee Vice-President
- R. GRAHAM... Secretary-Treasurer
D. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMID

W. H. BEST W. B. McQUEEN

E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER

E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON

M. K. HENDERSON ©. M. PRA’

R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES

F, W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE EXPERIMENTAL COLLEGE

Leading educators over the country are
noting with interest the progress of Dr.
Alexander Meiklejohn, former president of
Amherst, and the Experimental College of
which he is now head at the University of
Wisconsin. The trend of education in fu-
ture years will in all probability be deter-
mined by the success or failure of this new
experiment.

In this venture, Dr. Meiklejohn is break-
ing away from all past tradition and custom
as to the direction of an institution and the
content of tis curriculum. The idea
is novel in that it actually being carried
out this year, while in previous years it
had heen studied only theoretically. Learn-
ing in the Experimental College is entirely
informal. fn the conventional sense there
is very little classroom and lecturing work
being done. There is no formal meeting of a
class, in which the students are prepared to
recite, or attempt to také doses of educa-
tion in erudite pills. The professor is a co-
worker, aidthg the students in solving prob-
lems by his specialized knowledge of the
subject being treated. The classes are dis-
cussion groups, the instructor and pupils
studying the problems together. ,

{In regard to the policy of the school, Dr.
Glenn Frank, president of the University of

Wisconsin says, “The ‘course of study will’

rest upon the principle of a study of situa-
tions rather than a study of subjects.” In-
stead of taking various courses on obviously
unrelated subjects the students will take
episodes of civilization and study the funda-
mental reasons for the cause of such situa-
tionssand the effect of these episodes upon
the progress of the world. The freshman
year will be devoted to studying the civiliza-
tion of the Athenians. During the sopho-
more year the modern period will be studied.
Thus the non-scientific and scientific ages
and periods will be contrasted and com-
pared. After these two years the student

will be allowed to enter the School of ‘T.et-:

ters and Science as juniors to follow their
respective courses,

The result of this experiment in educa-
tion is awaited with interest, particularly at
present when so much criticism of the pres-
ent university system in America is flying
about the heads of the powers that be. Nat-
urally, Dr. Meiklejohn is strongly in favor
of the small college such as he is conducting.
He insists that “group living” and “group

teaching” are the best aids to a proper edu-’

cation.

Dr. W..L. Whittlesey, professor of. politics
at Princeton, is strongly opposed to the
present system of education. He complains
that the present tendency of colleges’is to
turn out a uniform type of mind, the student
being unable to do individual thinking and
personal investigation such as the freshmen
at the Experimental College. Dr. Whittle-
sey says that the/whole emphasis of modern
higher education places a premium on mem-

° THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927

ory and glibness. He remarks that Jefter-
son, Lincoln, or Franklin would not be able
to graduate from any institution under the
present bonds of curriculum and discipline.

The tendency of universities and colleges
to turn out uniform men is deplored not only
by Dr. Whittlesey but by other men well
known in the educational world. The trend
of thought seems to be swinging slightly,
however, and this is noted by the tendency
of a number of colleges to d&velop person-
nel work, to have counselors from the fac-
ulty for every man attending the institution.
This is turning away from the information-
cramming process which has been so in evi-
dence the last few years, turning to the col-
lege as a stimulus and a selective for the
students registered there.

In a confidential letter to Mr. A. W. At-
wood, a university dean says that the “great-
est challenge presented to our schools and
colleges for the next twenty years will be a
better nfethod of advising students in regard
to theif careers. The present method,” he
says, “is most inaccurate and a cause of
humiliation to those of us who give advice.”
Recognition of this fact has been made here
at Davidson and last year for the frst time
the Y. M.C. A. conducted a Vocational Guid-
ance Institute. This was for the benefit of
the students in helping them to plan their
life work. Leaders in various professions
were brought here and spoke to the stu-
dents on various points of their respective
vocations. There is'a danger that instruc-
tion might possibly become vocational rath-
er than. cultural if too much emphasis be
placed on a student’s life work hefore he
has obtained a rather general education. In
regard to this view however, Dr. L. B. Hop-
kins, president of Wabash College, says that
this fear is unfounded as long as methods of
instruction and content of curriculum are in
the hands of the faculties.

And again there is the age old problem of
the brilliant, fast-working student and the
dull, plodding student. When both are in
the same class, it makes a peculiar situa-

_ tion not only for the professor but for the

students. In theory, it would seem that Dr.
Mciklejohn’s experiment regarding this is
the best solution,. But whether this will
work out in practice remains to be seen as
his Experimental College rounds out the
year. The report of this institution will be
of great interest to all educators, from va-
rious points of view. The answers to all the
criticisms of mouern colleges will be given
as soon as the first class at this college has
passed through the elementary stages of a
college education. The report will not, be
complete until these students have finished
their education, but many interesting re-.
ports and observations will be made within
the next few months.

THE VALUE OF A-PARENT

The material value of a parent seems to be
decreasing rapidly in this day of prosperity
and progress, particularly in the educational
world. There seems to be little chance for

‘the parent to assert any authority or for-

‘ward any opinion as to his child’s welfare in

» “play instructors,”

this day of “nurses,’ 4

‘“matrons,;” “advisors” and other officials in

the educational system. The trend today
seems to be to place the child outside the au-
thority and jurisdiction of the parents as-
serting that the educational officials can
judge the child and advise him more capably
and efficiently than the parents.

The latest statement on this subject of
diminishing authority of the parent has been
made by Dean Gauss, of Princeton. The
venerable dean suggests that the matter of
deciding whether or not a son should go to_
college be taken completely out of the hands
of the parents. He insists that this be put in
the hands of the high school principal, since
he knows the boy’s capabilities better and
from an impartial viewpoint than do the
parents. If the school officials have gone
into thes case thoroughly, investigated
grades, ingenuity, ambition, etc., of the lad
in,question and have decided that he should
go to college, he will go; if they reach the
conclusion that he is not material for a col-
lege or universjty, he will not go. ~

The Boston Post commenting editorially
on the suggestion of Dean Gauss says that:
if this amazing suggestion is carried out
“seemingly the last vestige of authority ov-
er a boy’s future” will be taken.away from
his parents and “put in the hands of out-
siders.” Everyone admits that all parents
are naturally prejudiced in judging their
children, it would not be human to be other-
wise. And to attempt to judge the history
of a boy in high school and predict his career
in college would leave one’s opinion open to
much criticism. The two places of learning
are so vastly diff€rent, the environment and
method of instruction of each varies con-
siderably and it would be taking a great
task upon oneself to attempt to-say that this

“

That the present system of rushing employed
by the fraternities in obtaining new men is not in
accord with the traditions and standards of Da-
vidson College is the concensus of opinion of va-
rious men on the campus. The situation here
now is the same in general as that of former
years, and as a whole has been subjected to severe
criticism from various individuals. Until now no
public statement has been made, but it has been
understood by many that some radical change
should take place.

Under present conditions, a fraternity must rush
a man for practically two months. It seems to be
necessary that each man in the chapter of the
fraternity must know this man, have dates with
him, carry him somewhere, entertain him and
keep this up for eight weeks or more. The first
great criticism of the present system is the vast
amount of time which of necessity must be spent
with the freshman. Not only is it burdensome on
the fraternity man but more so on the freshman.
Some freshmen are fortunate in having various
friends over the country who have recommended
them to several fraternities which have chapters
here at Davidson. With two or three fraternities
rushing a new man it is absolutely impossible for
him to call a minute of his time his own. And
vice-versa with the man in an active chapter. He
has fifteen or twenty freshmen who have been
recommended to his chapter and it is his duty to
see all of these men, entertain them, and do all he
can for his chapter in this business of rushing.
His time therefore is also filled up for two months.

Another criticism is the amount of money spent
on the freshmen by the various men in the chap-
ters. The Pan-Hellenic Council very wisely con-
trols the number of functions at which a chapter
many entertain the freshmen. But the larger per-
centage of expenditures is Jeft entirely uncon-
trolled. An individual may spend as much as he
wants to on a freshman, aud the result is that he
usually spends much more than he can afford.
And mind you, this is allowed to continue for two
months. Naturally the freshman enjoys this very
much, but he should remember that for the one
year in which he is the recipient of all these
favors, he must contribute actively for the three
years he is an upperclassman provided he. is
given a bid by some fraternity,

The present conditions also give rise to numer-
ous embarrassing situations. A fraternity will
rush a freshman for say a month and a half and
as Bid Day approaches discover that when the
box is passed on the man, that he cannot be given
a bid. Imagine the feelings of a man when he
discovers that a group of men that he has learned
to know and very probably like’ very much does
not wish to have him become a member of their
organization, This is all the more emphasized
when he has been entertained by them for a
month or so. And this also works the other way.
A fraternity rushes a man for two months and
then discovers ‘that he prefers to join another
group. Out of mere politeness the freshman has
accepted the fraternity’s invitations but discovers
that he likes another organization better.

The “cut-throat” rushing which is in force at
“various institutions would not be a success at Da-

yg vidson and we are not advocating this system.
However it is apparent that some other plan
should be employed at Davidson than the one
which is being used at present. Any plan would
receive criticism from someone since it is, prac-
tically impossible to formulate a plan which would
meet with the unaninious approval of four or five
hundred men. But it is certain that some plan
could”be suggested which would meet with much
less dissention and criticism than the one which is
being used at present.

The plan which we would like to advocate would

' take in some of the good points, as we see them,
of the present system and yet eliminate some of
the objectionable features. This plan would in-
volve having closed rushing for sonte period of
time in order that there would not be such an
enormous drainage of.time and expense on the
men in the fraternities. This also wou'd eliminate
the force of some of the embarrassing situations
—EEII ——EE a _ L_____ SSSA SE
or that boy- will fail in college. Naturally
there would be some cases where the con-

| clusion would be obvious, but these cases

are comparatively few.

The Lafayette questions editorially “Are
parents as hopelessly incompetent as our
educators seem to believe?” It seems that
every year the school authorities are having
more and more supervision over the chil-
dren. In some places, the officials make
minute inquiries into the home life of the
pupils. Naturally this is wise and necessary
in some cases, but it also goes to prove that
school authorities have little confidence in
parents as a whole. "

It is possible that some educators in at-
tempting to give children the_training that
they deserve and need have overstepped
their bounds in attempting to have complete
authority over the future of the child. Such
an attiude would be tolerated in some coun-
tries, but this tendency does not seem to be
in keeping with our institutions.

=a

This Business of Rushing Freshmen

enumerated above. Naturally there would be a
specific time before Bid Day in which the frater-.
nities may enteertain the freshmen. This is quite
necessary in order that the fraternity may be
grouped together as a whole to meet and enter-
tain all of the men they are considering.

Under this system the fraternities as a whole
would not be allowed to establisn contact with the
freshmen for a period of two or three weeks. Af-
-tér this period there would be a definite period of
time during which the fraternities might entertain
their prospective members. After this there would
be.a period of silence for a day or so in order that
the freshman, after knowinz which organizations .
want him as a member, might consider the relative
merits of the various gronps and decide with
which he will cast his lot. During the first two
or three weeks, the individuais in the fraternity
would not be permitted to spend money on the
new men, would not be allowed to take them
away from the Hill on trips, and other necessary
regulations of this type. This in general would-
eliminate the present faults of allowing the fra-
ternities to spend too much money and time on
the freshmen. Under this plan Bid Day would be
moved up three or four weeks before the present
time. ,In a small school such as Davidson a man
may grow to know the various groups rather in-
timately in three weeks and it seems foolish in
some respects to extend this time to eight weeks.

Naturally such a system has its faults, such as
human inability to oversee every:fraternity man
and see that he is complying to the rules. Many
will argue, that it will not allow either the fra-
ternity or freshmen-time enough to make their
proper choice. They will also arguc that under
the present system that the fraternity does not
spend too much money or time on the new men.
From present appearances however, it would seem
that these men would be in the minority.

At present the college does not allow new men
to be pledged until after October 20th, the Pan-
Hellenic setting Bid Day this year as November
Ist. The college set October 20th as the earliest
possible time that reports could be given out as to
the scholastic standing of the new men. They
believing, and correctly too, that a man should
not be pledged until it is seen that he is capable
of fulfilling the scholastic requirements of the col-
lege. It seems however, that the men would be
able to do much better work were rushing season
cut shorter and that they may be in active contact
with older men who will have an interest in them
and be able to help them and encourage them.
The college could have restriction on men as far
as initiation is concerned but allow the men to be
pledged earlier. It is believed that under this new
system the ‘freshmen would make better records
scholartically since they will be dble to devote
themselves to studying rather than}spending the
first two months of their college carecr being en-
tertained and rushed, taking valuable time away
from their studies. “

It is certain in the minds of some men that the
present system is not the best, and that some radi-
cal change must take place. Whether the above
suggestions are accepted is immaterial, but that
some definite change must take place is strikingly
evident.

——)
a

“We see by_de peppers” that scientists in
Chicago have agreed that an average man
can exert’50 per cent more muscular energy
when, gazing upon a saturated red than
when confronting soothing blue. This may
be all very true but it hasn’t worked here at
“Davidson, or else our football team is much
more powerful than we think it is. Citadel
had on blue jersies, Carolina and Duke wore
blue last. year. Anyway it’ll be a good alibi
if they beat us this year.

The Mercer Cluster gave us a dirty dig in
its exchange columns last week. We might
tell the extremely erudite author of the col-
umn that it’s an excellent idea to have
freshies at the games ahead of upperclass-
men, they've quit wearing nameplates, and
none of them carry matches anyway. Pin
that posy on your “cluster.”

Three down—six to go. Fight ’em, Cats!

We are beginning to wonder how the men
at Wofford are answering to the roll call in
class room now?

The Carnell Daily Sun, having found a
tradition on its campus costly, cumbersome
and silly, proceeded to try knocking it out.
Tunior Week was its mame, and its effect
hollow-eyed, and expensive. The duty im-
posed by this week was that df ritious en-
joyment fo r three full days and nights, so
It appears ; for, as the Alumni News -remark-
ed, these eighty hours of jazz presented the
severest test of many endurance. ,

__The name Sing Sing comes from the Sin-
Sinck Indians, original inhabitants of the
region in which the prison now stands.
