THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Davidson Glee Club Will Take Part in

State Contest at

On December 12th, the Davidson College
Glee Club will journey to Durham to par- |
ticipate in the State Glee Club contest. The
contest is to be held in the Duke auditorium.
The clubs to be represented are: Davidson,
Guilford, Duke, State, and possibly the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

John Foster, president of the club, stated
that 30 of the members of the Glee Club
will make the trip to Durham. Foster will
direct the club during the contest.

Each club must sing three songs in the con-
test. “The Broken Melody,” the contest
song, is by Sibelius. “College Ties,” and
“Mother’s Boy,” by Towner, are the other
songs to be sung by the Davidson club.

On account of conflicting dates it is in
doubt as to whether the University of North
Carolina will sing in the contest.

“The Broken Melody” is to be used by all
glee clubs in the United States who are to
compete in state, district, atid national events.

The winner of the North Carolina State
Glee Club contest will go to Greenville, S.
C., for the Southern contest on February
10th. All expenses of: visiting clubs will be
paid in both the state and southern contest
by chambers of commerce of both Durham
and Greenville. The winner of the Southern
contest will be presented with a loving cup.
The director of the winning club also re-
ceives a loving cup as a permanent gift. The
winner of the Southern contest will receive
a.cash bonus of $1,000: to be applied on ex-
penses on attending the National contest in
New York.

The judges in the Durham contest will
be: Lee C. MacCauley, director of music
in the public schools of Asheville, N. C.;
Piof. Gillman Alexander, Greensboro Col-
lege for Women, Greensboro, N. C.; Mrv E.

Durham Next Week

Alumni After Fame and |
Fortune in 40 States

Davidson Men Are Also Leaders in
Seventeen Foreign Countries
According to Survey

Davidson College, with its 3,500 alumni,
is represented by business and profession-
al leaders in forty states and seventeen
foreign countries, a recent survey of
alumni records revealed. Of this num-
ber more than 1,500 reside in the state of
North Carolina.

South Carolina is sécond among the
states with 575 Davidson alumni. There
are 226 in Georgia, 149 in Florida, 185 in
Virginia, 100 in Tennessee, and 73 in Ala-
bama. New leads the eastern stattes with
58, followed closely by Pennsylvania with
27, Massachusetts with 15, and New Jer-
sey with 12,

Jllinois leads the mid-west with 9, trail-
ed by Minnesota and Ohio with seach.
Texas tops the western states with 49,
and Arkansas is second with 28, Oklaho-
ma with 14, and California with 10, Only
eight states including Maine, Vermont,
New Hampshire, Idaho, Oregon, Iowa,
Nevada, and Arizona are without David-

son alumni.

Davidson is represented across the seas
in seventeen foreign nations as follows:
China, Japan, Korea, Africa, Brazil,

Hawaii, England, Greece, Canada, Cuba,

Mexico, Scotland, Turkey, Roumania,
Central America, Switzerland, and Persia.
The complete) list of states with the
number of Davidson alumni in each fot-

L. Stookey, director of music at High Point, lows: ¢ ;
NC North Carolina 1,583, South Carolina

The capable direction of “Mother’s Boy,”
by John Foster, was a significant feature at
the concert given by the club in Concord
last Friday night, and it is an indication of
the successful guidance that he. will give the
club at the state contest in Durham.

The chamber of commerce of Durham is
inviting all of the visiting club members to
a banquet to be held preceding the contest.

FELLOWS!

You'll: always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

|
|

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY

SERVICE >

-NORTON’S

BARBER SHOP

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

+

ST OF COOK-
ING

“THE BE

575, Georgia 226, Florida 149, Virginia 185,
Tennessee 100, Alabama 73, Texas 490, New
York 88, Mississippi 45, Kentucky 43,
West Virginia 37, Maryland 30, Arkansas
28, Pennsylvania 27, Louisiana 18, District
of Columbia 16, Massachusetts 15, Mis-
souri 14, Oklahoma 14, New Jersey 12,
California 10, Illinois 9, Indiana 5, Minne-
sota 5, Colorado 5, Connecticutt 5, Ohio 5.
Kansas 4, Arizona 3, New Mexico 3,
Washington 3, Nebraska 2, Rhode Island
2, Deleware 1, Michigan 1, Montana I,
South Dakota 1, Wisconsin 1, Utah 1.

In the foreign countries, the count is as
follows: China 7, Japan 7, Korea 11, Af-
rica 6, Brazil 5, Hawaii 4, England 3,

Concerts will be given at Winston-Salem,
Greensboro, and Salisbury, while on this trip.

Football Team to Have
Banquet Saturday Night

a_i

Second Feed of Season to be at

* Salisbury

The members of the football team are an-
xiously awaiting the second of their numer-
ous post-season banquets, that is to be held
in Salisbury, Saturday night. The banquet
will be served in the Dutch Lunch Dining
Hall.

Coach Monk Younger and Tex Tilson will
escort the team over to Salisbury, some time
during the afternoon, in a private bus.

Since the College Glee Club is giving a
concert in Salisbury Saturday night, the
Glee Club quarter will render several selec-
tions at the banquet. :

The Rowan County Athletic Association
has been fortunate enough to have Mr. S.
C.. Williams, of Winston-Salem, to give the
addres of the evening.

MINISTERIAL BAND

Jim Appleby was the speaker at the week-
ly meeting of the Ministerial Band, held in
Shearer Hall Sunday afternoon at 2:30
o'clock. The talk centered about a demon-
stration and an explanation of ‘how ‘to con-
duct a Daily Vacation Bible School.

As a text Jim took the eighth verse of the
first chapter of Acts: “And ye shall be my
witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Ju-
dea and Samaria, and unto the uttermost
parts of the earth.” He said that the fact
must not be forgotten that it is necessary to
serve Christ in one’s home town as well as
in foreign countries, and then he showed
how in the Vacation Bible School college
students may have an opportunity to serve
Him. ’

He gave as advantages of the school the
facts that in the first place it keeps occupied
during the summer months young children
who would otherwise be idle and that in the
second place it can in six weeks, with an
hour a day, teach the children much more
than could be taught in the Sunday School
during an entire year.

Jim’s knowledge of the subject comes as a
result of practical experience last summer
in Florence, Ala., as an instructor and leader
in such a school, -

We simply must tell another Scotch
story. It seems that there was a Scotch-
man walking down Main street the other
day looking for a cheap post office—Bos-
ton Beaiipot.

Greece 2, Canada 2, Cuba 2, Mexico 2,
Scotland 2, Turkey 2, Roumania 1, Cen-
tral America 1, Switzerland 1, and Per-
sia I.

The
OR T HO

CREDENZA, $300.00

VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

New
PHONIC

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

“MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C

New

| Victor

Radi

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock cf

Brunswick Panatropes

New Records Every Friday
AComplete Line of RCA

Parker-Gardner Co.

Orthophonic Victrolas
and

Also
and Brunswick Records

os from $69.50 to $895.

VOLUNTEER BAND

The Volunteer Band has started making
“Y” deputations. It has decided on several
different programs with thre speeches in
each. In this way all the men in the band
will have places on the deputations.

Sunday, December 4th, Glenn Fry and
Ben Drake went on a deputation to Flora
Macdonald College, Red Springs, N. C.
Drake led the devotional service and Fry
spoké on the motives of missions. The ob-
ject of this trip was to arouse interest in the
coming convention at Detroit to discuss mis-
sions and to promote the general interests of
the Volunteer movement. Though they
spoke before the Volunteer Band there, the
meeting was well-attended by other students
and faculty members. ,
Sunday, November 27th, the Band was
represented on a deputation to Blacksburg
by Glenn Fry, John Bradley, and John Pres-
ton, speaking on Japan, China, and Korea.
They held three meetings in the vicinity.
The Tenth Quadrennial Convention of the
Student Volunteer: Movement is to be held in
Detroit, Michigan, during the Christmas
holidays, between December 28th and Jan-
uary 2nd. Davidson will be represented by
Glenn Fry and Allan Frew. Other colleges
in North Carolina will be represented also.
Delegates from all over the world: will at-
tend to discuss the present-day missionary
problem, especially to solve and discuss the
perplexity among students of this generation
who claim that missions are proselytism
among peoples of different heritage, culture,
and religion. There’ will be some noted
speakers to present the facts. Only a limited
number of delegates can go from each sec-
tion. The Southern Railway Company is
running a special train over the Baltimore
and Ohio and Pere Marquette Railways for
delegates from the South.

C, E. T. C.

The Christian Endeavor Training class
held its regular meeting on last Sunday, but
due to the rather small number present, the
meeting was conducted by Long in the na-
ture of a short devotional service.

Plans for various deputations are being
arranged for the class, and a group of seven
boys are to be sent to Huntersville next
Sunday evening to conduct a service there.
This deputation will be under the leadership
of Everett Moye. The Huntersville deputa-
tion will be the last made before the Christ-
mas holidays commence, but several others
are being planned to be held afterwards.
These latter deputations will include several
nearby towns, among which are Charlotte
and Statesville. The class has already held
several deputations ,including one to the
First Church’ at Mooresville. and another
to Harrisburg.

Word has just reached Davidson of the |
marriage of L. Phillip Cox, ’25, to Miss
Louise Robbs, on Thanksgiving morning,
November 24th, The marriage was per-
formed at Philadelphia, Mrs. Cox having
journey from her home ‘at Mobile, Ala.,
to that city for the ceremony. Phil Cox is

Latest Shows Will
Soon Come to Gym

Three good shows have been booked
for the remaining show nights before the
holidays. This week-end “Fast and Fu-
rious” will. be played, féaturing Regnald
Denny. The picture is the screen story
of an original story. written by the well-
known star. As the story from which
the story was made is the child of his
own brain, it can be said that he enters
into the spirit of the story in an artistic
manner, : :

Laure La Plante, John Harron, and Otis
Harlan will appear as leading lights in
“Silk Stockings” which is to be shown
December 10. This picture is a comedy
whose theme is centered around the cele-
bration of Sam and Molly Thornhill’s
Wedding anniversary. Sam is forced by
his boss to take some buyers to dinner.
One of the women puts a pair of silk
stockings in Sam’s pocket. When Sanr
gets home, the wife discovers the stock-
ing and sues for divorce. She tells a
frightful story in court and is shocked
when the divorce is granted. The rest of
the picture deals with how they are able
to avoid the fulfillment of the judge’s de-
cision,

Two of the four pictures shown in No-
vember centered around robberies, “Cat
and Canary” and thé “Chinese Parrot.”
On December 17, “Cheating Cheaters,”
another picture of this nature, will be
shown. This picture has an all-star cast
featuring Betty Tompson and Kenneth
Harlan. It is the story of one notorious’
band of society crooks meeting their
match when they run foul of another soci-
ety of crooks, each believing’ the other
honest. The suspense holds through, and
when you say that about a picture and
mean it, you have the last word in enter-
tainment. Music will be furnished by the
Jazz Orchestra.

The campaign in support of Banner
Elk School, conducted by Edgar Tufts,
will be started within a short while and
Davidson men as asked to be thinking
about the splendid work that has been
started there, and give it their hearty sup-
port. Beside this, there will be a col-
lection of old clothes taken up, to be
given to-the Crossnore School, another
most commendable institution. Cross-
nore School is under the direction of Mrs.
Mary Martin Sloop, who is a sister of
Dr. Martin, president of Davidson. This
school is doing a great work in the moun-
tain section of the state, and destrves
the support and interest of Davidson
men. This collection of clothes will be
made in the near future, and definite
announcement will be made soon.

“When Bill was haled into court for
speeding he offered the judge a five cent
cigar.”

“Well what about it?”

“In passing sentence, the judge took
both crimes into consideration.’ — Wet
Hen.

a student of medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, and a brother of Warren

the idea of ‘giving
like better than

this custom ... Pp

iy

—t!

7
Perhaps It Isn’t Customary

But if you should be possessed with
mas gift. we know of nothing you’d

TUX. —If> you’re skeptical | about

$40
_  MELLON’S

* Charlotte, N. C,

Counterfeiter—“I said the dollar was

Cox, ’24, whose marriage was recently | good arid I mint it.”—Ollapod.

yourself a Christ-

a BRAEBURN

ass the idea to dad.

