4

! THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15 a
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College ~

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

2?
SUBSCRIPTION. RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ecived from an unknown source will not he published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR
VERNON S. BROYLES...

Editor-in-Chief
iness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

'W._L. LINGLE. ... 2-22 t eee ee ne ee ee ee Managing Editor
ROYCE MARTIN. --Assistant Managing Editor
F.C. W&THERS....2.2..22 22 2-2 eee eee eee eee Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB... -Associate Editor
H. U. SHE!LBY_.-.. Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN. -----Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON_.. Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES._-..2- 20-2 ee eee eee eee ee Feature Editor

ese
BUSINESS STAFF

F. L. DOUGLASS. _......-....-Assistant Rusiness Manager
M_ P. CRAWFORD... ---Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE.,--.- --Assistant Business Manager
Xi A. McALPINE..--...---.-ssneeeee-e- Subscription Manager
V. TL. ALRRIGHT... ---Circulation Manager

Service Manager

R. S. ABERNETHY..........-..-2-----------
————————————[———zzz—E—EE—E——EEE—E—EE
Reporters’ Club

T. T. JONES... ...-- _ aere-.------President -

A. N. BROWN... a+... .eae- Vice-President
OC. R. LAKE...- _ ... Seeretary- Treasurer

W. HW. BALLEY oJ. PD. McBRYDE

TYREE DILLARD R. FF. McQUEEN

4. i] ~K. PRITCHETT

WADSWORTIT

L. C.
. Tt. KANE JOHN MORIARTY
J.P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

s
An American, who has ever tried to convince
a Chinaman that there was an error in his laun-
dry ticket, can easily understand the futility of
trying to induce 40 million Chinese to stop a
civil war.
D.

George Washington never told a lie, but then
he never had a radio and he never played golf.

D

Ten John's Hopkins students paid fines of
$23.50 several days ago for participating in a
freshman-sophomore riot which caused appeals
for aid from the state militia. Nine of the fined
students spent the night in jail, and one of them
was so hadly injured that he had to plead guilty
from his cot in the city hospital.

D.

The failure of Peaches Browning to secure
alimony from her multi-millionaire ex-hushand
convinces us that Will Rogers was right when?
he said that this is certainly a bad vear for
fruit.

D

Flappers are no rivals for the old-fashioned
girls when it comes to scholarship on the
Queens College campus, declares a recent news
item in the Charlotte Observer.

D

Boyce Martin, newly elected editor-in-chief
of The Davidsonian, will, in alt probability,
assume active charge of the publication next
week. IIis election was a tribute to faithful
services and superior ability. That the paper
will reach new heights under his supervision is
the firm belief of all who have been associated
with Boyce during his three years’ apprentice-
ship as a member of the staff. All hail the new
chieftain |

D

If college men really were like some of the
so-called. “collegians” now in the movies—
thirty-vear olds in wide pants and coon-skin
Coats, with a passion for racing cars and. all-
night parties—college davs indeed would be
happy days. And think of those glorious dips
in sunken pools and then the four-course break-
fasts served in true hotel style that we see now
and then in some flashing, sparkling. college
picture. lf folks who never went to college got
their ideas of college life from a few far-fetch-
ed college pictures their views would be subject
to considerable correction. College men are he-
men ; wide pants are on the decline, and break-
fasts consist of grape-fruit, toast and coffee,
bolted down in order that the student will not
be tardy to morning prayers.or an 8:00 o'clock
class.

We're tired of those absurd delineations of
college life by actors and actresses who have
never heen inside a college campus except to
witness a football game. That’s why we'd like
to seé some real honest-to-goodness college men

‘in the movies.

NEEDED UNIFORMITY

A committee of the North-Central Associa-
tion of Colleges and Secondary Schools has an-
nounced its advocacy of the simplification and
standardization of college entrance require-,

t

ments in the mid-west. The revision of college
requirements among the mid-western colleges. |
has been proposed in the interest of the puzzled
high school graduate, who finds himself bewil- .
dered by a patchwork-quilt variety of college
admission demands.

In a comprehensive report that committee
points out that: the colleges of the mid-west
possess no uniformity of entrance require-
ments, and that as a result of this there can be
no appreciable connection between a student's
high school and college courses. In 15 engi-
necring schools in the neighborhood of Chicago,
there are today 15 indivicual varieties of admis-
sion demands, while the entrance requirements
of the several colleges of fine arts, business ad-
ministration and agriculture are equally whim-
sical, according to statistics gathered by the
committee. The same condition prevails in
other sections of our country.

It is readily apparent that as long as college
courses are shaped with no regard to the stu-
dent’s-high school training, the barrier between
colleges and high schools must remain. Col-
leges are being advised’to take stock of their
idiosyncrasies and to restate, their entrance re-
quirements in simple form, insisting on special
credits only when necessary for a particular
branch of college work.

There is no desire among the educators of
the nud-west to make college entrance require-
ments easier. The only hope of stemming the
tide of students flooding the colleges of Amer-
ica today is to make entrance requirements such
that only the efficient stucent will be. enabled
to gain access to the classroom. The startling
increase in freshman failures within the past
few years is indicative of a lack of aggressive-
ness on the part of some college administrators
in the selection of their students.

Tlowever, a standardization of entrance re-
quirements does not necessarily mean that i
admissidn demands are to be made less diffi-
cult. Such a standardization as proposed for
the mid-west will only lead to uniformity of
entrance tests among the colleges. and to a re-
stultant standardization and co-ordination of
high school courses to meet the uniform college
requirements, The result will be that students
entering colleges and universities in the future
will he prepared to successfully carry their
college work, irrespective of the high school
from whence they come. There will be no
necessity for retarding classroom progress due
to the lack of proper high school preparation by ,
some of the students. /

pp /

THE FOUR-SQUARE MAN ‘

oe —

‘ A thorough survey of the fraternity journals, in an
endeavor to find what type of freshman is being most
widely sought for by the various organizations, reveals
the fact that the football star, the moneyed youth, the
handsome chap, the “most popular in high school”
type, and all the traditional favorites are no longer in
the ascendancy. The new favorite who is taking the
place of the old is The Man who will stay Four Years.
—Garnet and White, of Alpha Chi Rho.

THE TEST IS THE THING

We confess to a thrill when we read the paragraph
to which we have given prominence above. It looks
like something new on the horizon, and in the clash
of standards which is going on today we need some-
thing new, something to reconcile the old and the new,
something to introduce restraint into American ideals
of what is worth while. There is a slogan avhich has
been on our desk for some months, waiting to be rung
into service. It seems pertinent here: “A winner
never quits, and a quitter never wins.” If the slogan
be true, there is sound philosophy in the paragraph
above also, and there is something new in the air tu
which our optimism may respond.

The trouble with the college. and. again we say.
for the life of us we cannot locate any trouble with
the colleges that is not simultancously giving growing-
pains to us all, the trouble with us all is this very
same clash of standards, old and new: or, more technit
cally, this congestion at the moral cross-roads, where
‘youth and age so often meet and clash. The elders tov
long have been framing up things in general on the
suave assumption that “nothing succeeds like success.”
defining success in materialistic terms of economic
significance chicfly, meaning that sort of success which
is circumstanced so largely by things utterly beyond
our control, and so generally without significance to
those who deserve it most. To the observing multitude
success has hecome largely a trick at which anyone
may p'ay. But this “keeping up with the Joneses” is
no comedy. It is very grim sport. To many it has
become both philosophy and religion, this, keeping up
a modern front unmindful of the hungry specters that
still are sneaking in the rear.

New times, new standards, new slogans. Today the
test is the thing. What is your native 1. Q., and what
are you doing with it? Can you beat the curse that
nature and your ancestral germ plasm are supposed to
have put upon you? Or are you scared by the ghost ?
Your capital may be limited. What, is your moral
“turnover” ? Are your

? Your capital may be great.
gains equally so? Are you tay'ng your plans to stay

The general lack of interest in health and
physical well-being among Davidson students,
as revealed by answers to a recent question-
naire, is a source of keen disappointment to
those who realize that development of the in-

- ‘tellect without a corresponding development oi

i

'

the physique is valucless. /

It was generally understood. even before the
questionnaire was circulated, that large numbers
of Davidson students were not availing them-
selves of the opportunities for bodily develop;
ment. But, no such percentage as that revealed
by the answers to the questionnaire had heen
dreamed of. Almost a half of the Davidson
students admit that they do not take anv regu-
lar physical exercise as oftengas three times a
week, and that they'd be opposed to anv regu-
lation which contemplated compulsory physical
dritls for all students!

Physicians everywhere agree that inertia and
lack of regular exercise results in impaired
health, and that impaired health, in turn, les-
sens a man’s chances of success in life. A
realization of the importance of proper exercise
was one of the prime motives in the establish-
ment of our Y. M. C. A.’s, with their ideal of
the “Four-Square Man.” The expenditure of
thensands of dollars each year by colleges and
univers ties for gymnastic equipment is a con-
fession by leading educators that health is a
prime requisite for any success. a

Some Davidson students contend that thev
would. take exercise if the college furnished
them with more and, hetter equipment. Their
demand for better equipment is justified, and
there is little doubt but that the college will
supply such equipment as soon as funds are

available. |
But, students who really want to exercise are |

not kept from doing so hy inadequate equip-
ment. Two immense athletic fields. a golf
course, an indoor and outdoor gymnasium, and
a dozen tennis courts can accommodate prac- °
tically everv man in the student body who cares
to utilize them, God's great out-of-doors of-
fers unbounded opportunity for those who en-
joy hiking and running. A large proportion of
the students who fail to exercise cannot blame
their inertia on lack of equipment.

The need for additional equipment, especially
with regard to a swimming pool, tennis courts,
and gymnastic facilities, is great—but the stu-
dent who is really interested in the matter of
health will not wait to take his exercise until the
college furnishes him with newer and better
ways in which to build up and preserve his |
physical well-being. _

»

four years and see the business through, or. are you
just dodging until you are found out and fired?

Herein is the chemicalization that raise such a.

meaningless fizz in current discussion about the col-
leges. We are trying to enforce standards after the
new style on our undergraduate contingent in general,

| to whom we so readily assume ourselves to be superior :
| and as diligently do we resist the possible bearing of
| these novel tests on our own too meager stock of
, virtues. Up to the present we have “got by” Dame
a on the old-style examination. Why not let it
bat that? But it is not the undergraduate alone who
has got to meet the tests of this new day. The institu-
tion, the alumni (young an:t old). the trustees Cespe-
cially if they be plutocratic), the president (as always,
it is part of his job), the faculty. and even the fond

Ten years ago the freshman was initiated into
campus life by one grand brawl. He was treated like
a savage by savages and came to the natural conclusion
that a freshman at college was the least desirable of
mankind, ... By the time the freshman attended his
first class he was broken in body and in spirit.

This year the freshman was treated as the most
popular person at the tniversity. Mixers, dances, an
assemblies were given for ‘his sole benefit. He was
welcomed by the president and the deans. The churches
made hime feel at home and the fraternities prized his
triendship. ,

What a more receptive mind the new student is in
by the gentle and sincere introduction to college today
than by that of ten years ago! ... Instead of carry-
ing a bruise in his heart, he has thankfulness toward
his newly made home. Instead of being a jackass to
perform for the others’ amusement. he is made a
| prince in a strange principality—The Daily lowan.

Aside from the usual blah and bluster anent college
spirit and undergraduate traditions, there is a distinctly
constructive sentiment of regard entertained by a stu-
dent body for its alma mater. Unfortunately this lies
“ submérged. for the most part, unless it is aroused by
some spectacular train of events or a project of sin-

gular popularity. The University of Minnesota has
been recent witness to such revival.

Freshman Week was a happy union of sentiment and
practicality. .Without ostentation, some hundreds of
upper classmen made kt their business to supplement
the activities of the administration in relieving the
incoming freshmen of the most severe trials of rienta-
tion to the campus, A splendid spirit of co-operation
prevailed.

_ “Ina university, a system of freshman welcome is an

~The Man Who Will Stay

(Athlete and Moneved Youth Give Way to «*Sticker’’)

a

When a Freshman Needs a Friend

(College Editors Stress Need of Orientation)

| parent in the twilight background.—they all are to
have their day in court, and they all squirm more or
less under the ordeal, for the fact is, these are very
squirmy times.

Success of the old sort is comfortable. We all like
its results well enough. But when we list the long
line of worthies whom the world remembers most
fondly, would the gconomic ture alone have put any
single one of them over the top of the world’s grati-

tude? We suspect not. The outstanding figure on the

tablets of human memory today is that of the boy who
. did not succeed, the boy who got lost in the muck and
mire of the fight.-tést his identity, lost touch with his
ccmrades, and who yet stayed on the job to the grim
end -the unknown soldier of the war. His memory
humbies and ennobles the years. Is this the precious
gift of the war? Is this the new spirit of youth?
Then the old standards of success certainly must go;
they are sadly out of date.

What do we go to college for? A good time; the
Jones iamily tradition; four years more of irrespon-
sibility; preparation for life: nothing clse to do—all
good reasons enough, provided the boy secs it through.
it is to be presumed, iif the doctors are right .that after
tour years’ association with their program the boy will
emerge with a more refined and purposeful complex
than that-with which he entered. The faculty are en-
: 4rtET to at least that much chance to Prove their case.
As for the boy, how can he do more than do his best
with whatever the elders have bequeathed him of mo-
tive an.l vision as well as of social tradition and per-
sonal equipment? The elders are in no position to
. complain. Some of them try to dodge from under the
' Situation and relay the blame -for their own. short-
comings back to degenerate ancestors. Current theories
oi inheritance are a very godsend to such. But the
mistakes of the fathers cannot be wholly evaded.
They had their chance some vears ago to do their
dodging, and they didn’t.

Herein is the humor of the situation which develops
when the undergraduate reverses the day's frolic and
applies present-day psychology to his elders and in-
structors. Some of the tested elders do not radiate a
spotlight brilliancy in such events. There are indi-
cations that the doctors begin to see the joke.

Turn about is fair play. It might be rather stimu-
lat.ng (it certainly wou'd help us all to case up a bit
on the juniors) if every one of us could be made to
ecquire a registered I. Q. to hang up inside the cham-
ber door where it would look us in the face each day
as we emerged to the routine of our well-oiled com-
placency.

‘We scan the moral landscape too rapidly these days.
We cannot whiz through present-day follies at forty-
five miles an hour and even sce the more intimate

beauties of the wayside. A slower pace would be a
relief to all of us. Social pedestrianism should be #-
vived. It is an act which breeds patience and toler-
ance, perspective and understanding. It is a dead-sure
' cure for the fly-by night synicism which so discolors
current criticism of youth. “We cannot build Utopias
with young people corrupted at every turn ‘by the
example of their elders. We must start, so far as we
can, with a clean slate.” (Will Durant, in The Story
of Philosophy). And we must all start together. The
test is on, and the test's the thing. Youth accepts the
| challenge. Why shouldn't the clders do the same ?—
G.H. M., in What The Colleges. «lre Doing.

absolute essential if the incothing students are to
achieve anything but a jumbled first impression.
Measured in subsequent values, the recent exercises
were the equivalent of several weeks of sore expri-
ence in the trial-and-error method of adjustment to
campus routine. First impressions are always lasting.
- The Minnesota Daily.

——D-—_

Briggs has neg'ected the opportunity for a cartoon
fil’ed with heart interest in his series “When a Feller
Needs a Friend.” The smiling sympathy the young-
sters of ‘his cartoons arouse is not nearly as justified
as the human feeling a graduate would have for the
portrayal of a freshman during his first few days at
the University... .

Arriving in Ann Arbor he is greeted in a far less
hospitable manner: than was Columbus. Through the
chasms between the mountains of trunks come the wild
cries of the taxi drivers. He has no place to pitch his
tent. no guide to help him. In a taxi coming from
the midnight train in that crowded first week a South-
ern freshman asked to be taken to the “city hotel”;
but the impatient taxi driver said that all hotels were
filled and that he would drop the freshman on State
Street. Think of it. State Stree at midnight. No
room. No knowledge of the town.

The process of registration is discouraging. it is
nearly impossible to find anyone who will accept the
freshman’s tuition money. The homesick boy signs
his name and the name of his home town nearly fifty
times during registration, and he longs for that home
town each time he writes its name upon the card. As
he is shunted from the Gym to the Recorder's Office,
from the Athletic Office to: the Classification Com-

(Continued on page 8) | |
