4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

ray iit I'l
itl \ hill

~The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
: Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Studénts of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter ot
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Centa per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the ands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 Pp. m. Monday. fticles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

us skebkuSassececueslilusveae Editor-in-Chief
Sedshussbavcwadcuceussus Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

AON, BROW Nustiscicsce i ee Managing Editor

W.-K SPREPCHETT sicgcicice. ote Managing Editor

J, B. MORIARITY ..222000220 oe Managing Editor

Ci ORY AK peeet er cag Sena og ae Athletic Editor

W. L. LINGLE _. --Associate Editor

F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor

Wipes Wh BS eu cck, ssociate Editor

L. C. WADSWORTH - --Alumni Editor

R. C. 1D 6 oS AER EEE ye ey epee TRS Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY..___ -Assistant Business Manager

S. J. ALLISON.______ -Assistant Business Manager

W. M. POWELL.. -Assistant Business Manager

P, Ry GARRISON.. +-++--+-+----.-----Subscription Manager

B. . DICKSON Circulation Manager

SiWs (MORRISY 220 ooo he cerns Solicitor

WB) SMCGUIRR 22. weir Nay ie a licitor

E. H. McCALL.... PPPS TERS Sarena rt Solicitor

Reporters’ Club

W._H. poate aude ea Pregidant

A L. E ee Vice-President

~ R, } ~----------..-....Secretary-Treasurer

D. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMID

W._H. BEST W. B. HcQUEEN

E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MIL

E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTO:

M. K. HENDERSON c. M. PRATT

R. F. JARRA D. T. STOKES

F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE ™ B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

HALLOWE’EN
In a few days thé most remarkable hand
of people on this earth or any other earth
will gather together. Their convention is
is an annual affairs and it is a glorious one.
Already numerous forces all over the earth
are planning for this great occasion. Pump-

kins have been ripening on. the vines, bright .

splotches of color against a dull and drab
background. Witches are preparing their
brooms for their annual “air derby’—eerie
spirits are preparing their weird garments
for the festivities. And one night they will
all gather.together, spirits of various shapes
and forms will fill the air. Ghosts will take
the earth by storm and have dominion over
everyone until the sober light of dawn again
awakes a weary world. In other words,
Hallowe’en will be here next week to recall
all of. the delightful memories of childhood
—another phantom out of the past to make
us wish we still believed in fairies and Santa
Claus,

It is quite natural that everyone here at
Davidson will join in the spirit of the oc-
casion and make merry as they have done
every year on this date. All of us have too
much of the child in us to fail to enter in this
game of “play-like” and to believe that
ghosts and witches do not exist after all.

It is hoped however, that this playful
spirit will not become vulgar and destruc-
tive as it has been known to do’ ere on sev-
eral occasions. There is always someone
who is thoughtless, who fails to remember
anyone other than himself, and who ruins a
joyful occasion by not stopping to consider
some things which he should.

The majority here hope sincerely that no
scene such as has been seen some years will
greet the yes of the community on the
morning after Hallowe’en. There have been
times when the campus has been littered

_ with unsightly trash, papers strewn over
the” grounds, and general evidence of
thoughtlessness and vulgarity. It is pleas-
ing to believe however, that these days have
passed and that the present student body at
Davidson is gentlemanly throughout. It_is
ubelieving that any man here would deliber-
ately attempt to ruin the good name of the
entire student bod by attempting to de-
stroy the beauty of the campus spread un-
sightly streamers and paper over every tree
on the grounds,

It would be bad enough if the students
alone would see the destruction, but those
contemplating any such rash actions shold
remember that there will be numerous visi-
tors on the Hill next week-end, friends and
alumni of the institution who would be

grieved if anything regrettable occurred.
If the Wildcats emerge from the football
contest victorious it will be an added: incen-
tive for celebrating the occasion, but it

Should be celebrated in an orderly manner

credit on the college and its students.
“There are very few who believe that the

-and ‘hot in a way which would reflect dis-.

students will not control .their tendencies
towards exterior decorating next week, but
it has ocervrred in the past and their deduc-
tion may be logical and justified. But if ev-
ery man remembers others as well as him-
self there willbe no disorderly scenes or
any regrettable occurrences during the
week-end.

CONGRATULATIONS!

The faculty committee in charge of the
library is to be heartily congratulated on
its latest decision in regard to the policy of
the library, As has been announced, the
library will remain open two hours and a
half longer each day. This policy will be
continued until Christmas at least, then the
committee will decide whether or not it will
he wise to continue it as a regular schedule.
This new ruling means that the library will
be accessible an hour and a half longer dur-
ing the day and an hour later at night.

This is very evidently a wise move since
it gives a student a greater flexibility of
schedule and will be far more convenient
than the former polic Davidson, as are
numerous other schools, ts a highly organiz-
ed institution from the standpoint of stu-
dent body activities. Many of these activ-
ities take up the time which has been the
open hours. for the library. From now on
however, it is clear that more students will
be able to make use of the facilities of the
library and it will serve the college and the
community more conspicuously than in for-
mer years.

The new system will relieve the conges-
tion which is usually evident in the library
after supper until the closing hour. Being
open now for a much longer period, the
students who now use the library regularly
will be able to spend their alloted hours at
different times, allowing other to use the
facilities more freely.

It is believed that the new system will
meet with more favor with the student body
than the old, due to the fact that the plead-
ing for longer hours has come in a large
measure from the students themselves, The
questionnaire sent out last year revealed
that this was the main criticism of the li-
brary, but since this criticism has been re-
moved it is clear that the student body will
be more interested in the library, and will
be more of a student library.

As stated before, the new system will pre-
vail until the Christmas holidays: then if it
is discovered that the new policy has aided
the students and is successful it will con-
tinue. Since the students have asked for
this new convenience, it is hoped that they
will prove that it is necessary by using the
longer hours and co-operating more heartily
with the personnel of the library.

HOMECOMING

Next week will mark the annual return
of the old grad to his Alma Mater.” Next
week Davidson will be host to a large crowd
of friends and admirers. Homecoming Day,
with a hig football game on the Hill always
draws the crowds. The present student
body of Davidson should realize the respon-

sibilities which will be incumbent upon them |

during this day and aid in every way to
make the occasion a real homecoming for
the alumni and a day of pleasure for the
visitors.

As well as these visitors, there will be
friends and relatives of students on the Hill.
Davidson has always had a reputation for
gentlemanly conduct and courteous treat-
ment of visitors and it is hoped that this
tradition will be upheld next week.

Today Davidson College belongs to the
present student body but on Homecoming
Day it will be the possession of the alumni
by right of conquest. Every student here
should realize that he must aid in giving in-
formation, making the guests enjoy them-
selves and treat them courteously in order
that all may know that they are welcome:
It will be the small things that will count
on, that day, little remarks and helpful ad-
vice which will make an impression on the
visitors.

Through the- aid of the alumni secre-

tary the college is attempting to bind
the alumnus to a closer relation with his
Alma Mater. There are many who take an
active interest in the progress of the school.
But there are many who seem to have for-
gotten the institution from which they were
graduated. A number of the latter will be
back for the football game and the students
should realize that they must aid the college
in an attempt to bring these men in a closer
relationship with the institution.

‘An alumnus who is interested in his Alma
Mater, who knows what she is doing, and
what she needs to do that which she is not,
is a valuable asset to that institution. The
progress of a school is determined largely by
this interest of the alumni. Homecoming is
the one day in the year

larger majority of old men on the Hill: - It

when there is a-

|
|
|
|

Ollapodrida

Trans-Atlantic flights were brought close home
to the Carolinas for the first time when Colonel
Charles Lindbérgh came down from:the air to
visit Spartanburg. As usual he was feted, ban-
queted, spoken to and given a slight opportunity
to speak back. To add distinction to the co-
casion Colonel Lindbergh stated that he opposed
any control of flights similar to his own by the
government. “It opposes progress,” he said. Lines
of strain and nervous exhaustion were apparent
upon his face, which were not entirely due to the
rain which marred the celebration. The Ameri-
can public makes much of its heroes, and expects
too much in return, The stated purpose of the
Lindbergh tour is to further commercial aviation,
the real purpose is to satisfy the public curiosity.

While Lindbergh entertained Spartanburg, Miss
Ruth Elder, another candidate for the position of
first woman to cross the Atlantic, steered her
pane over eastern America and then over the At-
lantic in a dash for Paris. Hours passed without
news, her mother collapsed, and then word trink-
led through that she had fallen at sea and had
been rescued by a Dutch liner. A broken oil line
brought her battle with the elements to a close.
Only one more plane, and that guided by. another
woman, awaits the favor of the.weather for the
ocean hop, thus bringing to a close the first season
in this sport. All told the Ocean Hoppers have
battled less than .125, a poor percentage.

“Ours is a policy of reciprocity as regards
tariff.”. So spoke Seymour Lowman, newly inau-
gurated assistant secretary of the treasury and
prohibition chief, in a statement to the press last
week. The statement was made as a result of the
rise in tariff on certain articles upon which the
French had raised ‘their import duties. It was
made to a young reporter named’ Lodge, the
grandson of Cabot Lodge. It would have gone
unheralded except for the fact that it had been
made without the approval of Mr. Lowman’s mas-
ter mind, Mr. Mellon. Grandson Lodge diseov-
ered this, reported it. As a result Mr. Lowman
received a reprimand at the hands of Mr. Mel-
lon; not his first. Only two weeks ago the same
Mr. Lowman published the statement that his
arm sometimes grew weak from signing dismisals
to the prohibition force. Mr. Mellon resented
this publicity likewise. Mr. Lowman refuted both
statements, hut. Grandson Lodge reiterated his
report and established himself politically by say-
ing that the days of Mr. Lowman are numbered.
Every few months some minor government offi-
cial outgrows his position, exposes the “inside” to
the public and loses his job for the trouble. And
this is a land of free speech,

Students at Gary, ‘Indiana, vacated their high
school recently as a protest to the admission of
two many negro students. Formerly only a few
have been admitted although admission is right-
fully open to all and any of them. This year
found fifteen or more taking courses. Parents
backed the strike, refused to order their offspring
back to classes. As a result the city board of al-
dermen met to solve the situation. Upon the
board sat three negroes, and six whites duly elect-
ed. The, writes advocated a temporary building
for the negroes, a permanent one when funds were
available. The negro elemetit objected. _Tem-
porary and permanent were not defined clearly,
enough. A vote was taken. The whites won the
game. Score six to three. Argument only
strengthened prejudice again. One might argue
either side with zeal. In the eyes of the law all
children are on the same footing. Yet the colored

* parent pays taxes.

In Chicago Superintendent of Schools McAn-
drew is being ousted because of his opposition to
Mayor “Bill” Thompson. McAndrew has preach-
ed against the Chicago administration in his
schools.’ By careful manipulation Mayor Thomps-
son has obtained a favorable school board, and
had McAndrew hailed before the board on a
charge of conspiracy to re-establish British rule
in this country. A mock trial before a thrown
jury is now going on. McAndrew sees the hope-
lessness of his cause, hopes to make a fool of
Mayor Thompson as a dying stab at that digni-
tary (so-called). More Thompson blah. :

Last week a pretty young typist of London
walked into the waters of the English channel on
the French side and swam out of sight. Later
she appeared on the English shore in record-
breaking time. Britains hailed her as a hero,
awarded her a prize. Two days later she con-
fessed that it was a hoax to show the criminal
Possibilities of channel swimming. As a reward
for her trouble the public boohed her. The public
does not like to be fooled. Yet it does not like to
show that it can be fooled much better.

is highly important therefore that the whole

institution do all within its power to impress
on these men that everyone is glad to have
them back and are interested in them. In
this way they will become interested in the
school and the students and se their influence
to develop Davidson as fully as possible.

head!

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

C'ever young Anita Loos could not have known
to what extremes this mania for blondes was de-
stined to go, else I am sure she would have found

| other means of amusing herself on her transcon-

tinental railway journey, at which time she is pur-
ported to have first conceived the theme of her
muchly popular “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.” She,
perhaps, never dreamed that the whimsicalities of
her golden-haired heroine, Lorelei, would end with
cultured men and women delving into the musty
voiumes of history in ‘an effort to prove the
veracity of her contention that polite men are
partial to light-haired maidens. ,

But, look what followed the publication of her
book, There wasa mad rush for the apothecary
shops of the nation. Peroxide sold at a premium
—but, ‘how it sold! Hairdressers, claiming mirac-
ulous abilities for transforming brunettes into
blondes, found themselves swamped. Movie ac-
tresses appeared with golden tresses, where only
brown locks had grown’ before—and it finally
went so far that even Flo Ziegfield confined his
glorification of the American girl to blondes.

There were those who believed that the maniacal
fad would wear itself out and die—but, it still
persists three years afterwards. Constance Tal-
madge is the only one of the screen celebrities,
who has tired of her artificial goldy-locks and
threatens to dye back a natural shade of brown.
A thousand women, with a desire for a perma-
nent wave, must now forego the pleasure of ever-
curling locks, simply because they joined in the

-“Big Parade” to blondedom, and the electric

curlers are dangerous when applied to hair once
dyed.

But, a fellow could sort of stand all that—that
is, until he found persons educated in the finer
arts, giving credence to Anita Loos’ contention
that “gentlemen prefer blondes.” Archivists and
archeologists joined with Miss Loos in proclaim-
ing the superiority of the blonde. It was brought
to our attention in rapid succession that Frago-
nard, Rubens, Schurig, Titian, Paolo Veronese,
Corregio, and all the other great painters had
chosen the blonde for their most beautiful works
of art.

Eve was a blonde according: to tradition, and the
Talmud reveals that Lilith, Adam’s first wife, was
likewise possessed of golden-hair. Thus, reasons
Blauvelt writing in a recent issue of The Mentor,
“the human story began with two blonde women
....and the blonde type has been a potent factor
in making history ever since,”

We must accept without objection the declara-
tion that Venus, most beautiful of womankind was
a blonde; for did not the poets sing of her as “the
golden, sweet-smiling Aphrodite, who rules the
hearts of men,” and did not Italian archeologists
recently proclaim their discovery of a statue of
Venus, excavated in the Lybian Desert, in the
wavy folds of whose locks “still adhered some of.
the original yellow pigment used to color the hair
of the statue.”

It is claimed that Roman gentlemen of Caesar’s
day showed an undeniable preference for light
ha‘r, and that it was not unusual for them to im-
Port great amounts of yellow hair from the Ger-
man provinces with which to make wigs for their
favorite mistresses,

And Shakespeare, peer of the bards, “had a
definite preference for blondes,” says my inform-
er, Mr. Blauvelt. Portia, whose “sunny locks hang
on her temples like a golden fleece ;’ and gentle
Rosalind; and Cordelia, daughter of Lear; were
all possessed of golden tresses. Homer’s Odysseus
had “beautiful yellow locks” and Calypso, his fav-
orite nymph, was a “fair-haired powerful god-
dess.”

So gentlemen prefer blondes. There can be no
issue. Rather discouraging, when one has visuali-
zed himself as a gentleman, and yet finds that in
all his life he has never been attracted by golden
hair. Always; even now, it has been the brunette
—well, maybe I’m not a gentleman—but, who is
this Loos woman, anyhow? If Napoleon coveted
the blonde Mademoiselle Clary, it is certain that
he finally married Josephine—“the irresponsible,
Passionate, dark Cheole.” And, though, he di-
vorced her he cried “Josephine, my excellent
Josephine . . . to thee alone do I owe the only
moments of happiness which I have enjoyed in
this world.” Again, Josephine was not a blonde.
But, Mary Queens of Scots and Marie Antoinette
both were—and what happened to them—well, the
guillotine is hardly the place for a lady to lose her

_ And Helen of Troy, the blonde, was unfaithful
to her husband Menelaus—and | her infidelity
brought on a war. And I despise wars. Be it the
part of a gentleman, or no—a brunette today, to-
morrow, forever—my choice. That’s all!
