2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, ‘SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

ote Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

One and all we welcome “Tex, Jr.”! A
more welcome addition could not have been
made to the population of Davidson than lit-
tle “Tex.” They say he weighs only about
six pounds, but the smallest babies often
make the biggest men, and if Tex, Jr.,- fol-
lows in the footsteps of his father, he'll be
no exception-to this rule. Our fondest hope
is that he will like the home of the Wildcat
and that some day he will grow up to be a
true fighting member of the Wildcat eleven.

Davidson 5, Citadel 0! Not a bad start, in
our opinion, especially when we stop to con-
sider thé fact that the odds were against us.
The. Wildcats are used to causing upsets,
however, and, unless we miss our guess, there
will be’quite a few more before the season is
over. The showing made by the Wildcats
in Saturday’s game was unusually good for
the first game of the season. With the im-
provement that is bound to come with more
practice and more games, they'll be hard to
stop before the season is over.

‘ Victory is often bought at a high price,
but its toll this time was unusually high,
“Red” Grey, a power in the Wildcat line,
pulled some of the ligaments in his arm and
will not be able to play for several weeks at
least. This loss might cause some to fall
down into depths of dispair, but we've got
“Monk” and “Tex,” so why worry? They’ve
built a team out of almost nothing before
and if it’s necessary they can do it again.
DeArmon handles the pivot position in fine
style, and although he is a little light for a
college team, he makes up for this loss in
fight and determination.

Harrison’s two long runs, Grey’s usual un-
beatable “toe work,” and Nesbit’s line plung-
ing were features of the game. In our opin-
ion, we're not handicapped at all in the back-
field. With these three men at halves and
full and Wilson at quarter, and with Kell,
Flynn and others to substitute for them,
we've got a backfield that will stand with the
best of them. Flynn showed unusual ability
in bucking the line when he broke the Cadet
line for about 10 yards.

In the line, Arrowood, Melton and Laws

were the outstanding players. These three.

men broke through consistently and the gains
made over them were few and far between.
Arrowood showed the form of an experi-
enced backfield man when he caught the
Citadel pass and started toward a touchdown.
Melton, despite the fact that he had a bad
foot, was in on every play and played like a
star player in the best of condition. The
whole line showed up unusitally well, and al-
though it suffered some injuries, we're not
feeling so blue.

We'd like mighty well to find out what
kind of a jinx Wake Forest has over Caro-
lina. It might come in mighty handy some-
times. With overwhelming odds against
them, the Deacons won out over the Tar
Heels for the fourth consecutive time, com-
ing out on the long end of a9 to 8 score. It
seems that the game resembled the Carolina-
Davidson game of two years ago in several
respects. The Tar Heels seem to have been
the winners in everything except the score,
They gained more ground through the air,
more through the line, and seem to have been
the winners in every other way except in the
‘final score. We're not grieving over the re-
sults, however. It helps us out and gives us
a better chance in the fracus,

It seems a shame that the Wildcats
couldn’t put over a touchdown when they had
the ball on the one-yard line. We can’t ask
for too much, though. We won the game,
and the Citadel Cadets probably got a lot of
satisfaction out of the fact that they kept the
Wildcats from putting the old ball over the
line—they held the Wildcats on the one-yard
line even if they did lose the game,

’ The Florida game Saturday should tell
quite a lot. It won't have any direct bearing
on the championship, but if we can beat them,
it will mean quite a lot. Florida has a strong
team and it will put the Wildcats on the
map, so to speak, if we can come out on the
Jong end of the score Saturday. We can't
go to the game, but let’s all be at the gym
and back ’em to the limit.’

You are not doing a god job unless you
‘would rather work than be idle.

SE ee meee)

Wildkittens All Set for
Clash With Oak Ridgers

To Engage Florida Gaters for
‘ First Time .

Despite “Monk” Mattox’s difficulty in uni-
fying his Wildkitten eleven, which was due
to the fact that the candidates who had had
former experience were out for more or less
the same positions, they are showing much
better form in the third week of the season’s
practice. Suitable weather has favored good
work-outs for the past week. In the scrim-
mages with the varsity the team has exhibit-
ed a most excellent defense. The backfield is
showing itself to have much speed as dis-
played by Goodykoontz, halfback, who is a
cousin of the “late” Harry Goodykoontz.
He affected several brilliant runs in the var-
sity scrap. Page, all-state tackle from Gas-
tonia, and Covington, are ably upholding their
positions at tackle. Foil and Mason are win-
ning an enviable reputation in their respective
berths of guard and center. The average
weight of the team is about 160 pounds:
which is quite a weight record for Davidson
“Fresh” squads. The backfield averages
about’ 10 pounds less than the linemen. It
begins to look as if Coach Mattox has suc-
ceeded in building a first-class fighting ma-
chine to begin wearing the red and black.

The 1927 season opens with a clash with
Oak Ridge Military Institute. The game is
scheduled for October 8th, the Wildkittens
invading the home grounds of the Oak Ridge
varsity. The two teams have not met for
two consecutive years. In 1924 our Fresh-
men met the “Ridgers” in Statesville with
an overwhelming tally of 36-3 in favor of the
Davidson rats. But that was the first year
that the Military Academy had really fos-
tered a gridiron eleven. Last year the Ridg-
ers were reported to have had one of the
heaviest if not the heaviest team in the state.
They defeated Catawba last year with a
score of 66-0. The Oak Ridge Cadets open-
ed their 1927 season against Hargrave Mili-
tary Institute, of Virginia, Saturday, Sep-
tember 24th. The Hargrave students were
routed by a score of 20-0. The odds were
in favor of the Ridgers from start to finish.
The team*showed a very strong offense, ac-
complishing their maneuvers by a series of
line bucks and tackle plays. . They are cred-
ited with five consecutive first downs with a
totaf of 13 against 2 for Hargrave. Captain
Goodson displayed good generalship, while
Beavor, Frazier and Kistler showed up well
in the backfield.

From all evidences, it looks as if the Da-
vidson Junior Eleven will have a-lively time
in routing the varsity of its military oppo-
nents, but the Wildkittens are eager to sharp-
en their claws on the first prey of the 1927
gridiron season. ae

The probable line-up of the two teams will
be as follows:

Davidson Position Oak Ridge
PLOT: cacccanucce 1N5 (0 Pa Gardner
127-1 CE leg Tackle. 2225522555 McDade
Brock Guard Mohn
Mason -...--... Center csec5o225 Owens
1 eX Pasco staan age aad, Guard -..._..- LaFevre
Covington ~..._- Tackle 2220s Webb
Gilham ~._-..____ Bnd) cocks Daughtry
McGall 2oc2..2- Quatter -.______ Goodson
Goodykoontz -.. Halfback -.._.____ Kistler
David -.--.--.. Halfback ~____._. Frasier
Fraley ~.--.... Fullback ~...-..__ Beavor

Tex Tilson Sounds
- Cross Country Call

The Wildcat cross country team started
out for light practice on Thursday, September
22nd. Dutch Wearn, track manager, issued
the call to which 17 men responded. A ten-
tative schedule has been worked out, but not
completed. Of the 16 men out for the three
and one-half mile run, only one of them ap-
peared on last year’s team.

Since cross country work has been deemed
worthy of receiving a minor letter, it. will be

a hard gruelling run over a course, by no
means regular ,to receive no reward for the
work, Beginning last year, the Athletic Board
agreed on giving a letter for the sport.

The men answering the first call for prac-
tice are: Sloop, Martin, Brownell, Russell,
Lafferty, Neuman, Beavers, McGeehee, Rus-
sell, Helms, Jarratt, Barr, McCall, McAuley,
Turner, Kirkland, and: Wilkinson. The only

one of the well-contested-for sports. It was |

Wildcat to Invade Lair
of Heavy Florida Team
in Gainesville Saturday

To Engage Florida Gaters for First
Time Since 1924

LEAVE THURSDAY NIGHT

Jim Grey Will be Out of Game—
DeArmon or Hampton to
Substitute

Davidson’s second football foe for this
year, after the victory over Citadel College,
will be the University of Florida. Florida’s

“Gators” has also had one game, from which

she emerged the victor by a score of 26 to 7,
with the Southern College on the small end.
The Davidson vs. Florida game is to be play-
ed on the Gators’ home field, in Gainesville,
Florida, on Saturday, ‘October 1st. Coaches
Youngér..and Tilson are to take a squad of
about 25 men. The Wildcat squad will leave
Davidson on Thursday night and arrive in
Gainesville about 12 o’clock. Friday morning.

Although the Gators came out nearer the
bottom o fthe Southern Conference than the
top last year, their team for this year has
been. greatly strengthened by the Freshman
squad of last year. The University of Flor-
ida’s Freshman squad of the year 1926 won
the state football championship and were
among the claimants for the Southern Con-
ference championship. The varsity’s weight
has been greatly augmented by these Fresh-
men of last year. Indeed, weight was a very
important factor in the victory over Southern
College, which is a small co-educational col-
lege of about 350 or 400 students.

The strength of the Wildcat team was
seriously impaired by the injury of Jim Grey,
the varsity center, in the latter part of the
Citadel game. Several ligaments were
severely sprained in his arm, but .no bones
were broken. Grey will be out for about

three weeks, but it is hoped that he will be|-:

able to take his regular ‘place toward the end
of the season. Either Hampton or DeAr-
mond, who are both Sophomores, will take
Grey’s place, it is thought.

Some friend sent the Wildcats a small ali-
gator, presumably to familiarize the Wildcats
with their impending enemy. The gator has
been unable as yet to escape.

Florida’s schedule for this year is as fol-
lows:

U. of Florida vs. Sou. Col., Sept. 24.

U. of Florida vs. Davidson Col., Oct. 1.

U. of Florida vs. Albany Col., Oct. 8.

U. of Florida vs. U. of Ky., Oct. 15,

U: of Florida vs. N. C. State, Oct. 22.

U. of Florida vs. Mercer Col., Oct. 29.

U. of Florida vs, U. of Ga., Nov. 5. .

U. of Florida vs. U. of Ala., Nov. 12,

U. of Florida vs. Wash. & Lee, Nov. 24.

bee
experienced member is Martin, who had quite
a bit of running last year. John Ely, the
only letter man from last year’s team in
school, is expected to come out in a short
time. He has been detained on account of an
operation,

The schedule for the fall consists of one
positive meet. There is a meet pending with
Wofford here on October 15th. The meet
with Duke has been settled for October 29th,

| in the morning of Home-coming Day. There

is another meet pending with N. C. State in
Greensboro on November Sth. This, how-
ever, depends on the finding of an available
course to run it on.

BIG FIVE SCORERS

Player. College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T’tl.
Adams—State —_ 12
Warren—State — 12
Outen—State —- 7
Goodwin—State_
Janeski—Duke -
Cox—W., F. ....
Ferrell—Car, —-
Grey, R. Dav. -.
James—W., F, ..
McDowell+-State
*McConnell—Dav.
*Schuler—Car, —-
Buie—Duke ____
"Safety.

COSCO OHHE HE END
moonoooococoroo
NNN OWAAAA

+

{to coach this year’s team:

Wildcat Grapplers Have |
Three Men for Nucleus

Garrison, Hill, and Flythe to
Lead Team

Although this is a little early in the year
to predict a championship in wrestling to
match the one in football which every true,

point toward a season at last as successful as
the one of 1927.

The team will be built around the nucleus
formed by three returning men, Captain Jeff
Garrison, in the 148 pound class; Tom Hill,
in the light heavy-weight division, and W.
H. Flythe, who will wrestle in the 128 pound
class, Perhaps the greatest loss, and cer-
tainly the hardest position to fill will be that
left vacant by the graduation of Joe Frier-
son, captain last year. Not only will he be
missed because of his exceptional ability, but
because of the’ fact that *so few men can
train down to the 119 pound class.

As the wrestloing season has not yet start-
ed, the quantity and quality of the reserve
material is not yet known, but from last
year’s record, the most promising candidate
for Frierson’s berth seems to be Kilgore,
who showed up well with last year’s Fresh-
man team. Other members of the Freshman
team who will provide competition “for the
varsity wrestlers and those who try for the
other places, are Tom Brohard, Christian-
burg, Brown, and Russell.

Another problem which has faced the team
each year and was:especially noticed last year
was the lack of men in the heavyweight ranks,
So scarce were these men last year that Gar-
rison, who should wrestle in the’ 148 pound
class, on several occasions was moved up to
the 169 pound class, and Hill, who weighs
170, was forced to wrestle men who out-
weighed him more than 20 and 25 pounds.
This problem may be settled by several men
who are now playing football and havé sig-
nified their intention of turning out for the
squad. Although a few likely candidates
have been mentioned, it need not be said that
none of these positions have been settled.

Another loss which was sustained not only
by the team but by the college as a whole,
was that of Capt. George Weems, who for
four years was head of the R. O. T. C. de-
partment here, and during his stay here was
wrestling coach. No definite action has yet
been taken to procure his successor, although
according‘ to Captain Garrison, Professor
Cummings, who has been added to the faculty
as professor of English, has had a good deal
of experience as a wrestler, and may consent

The schedule, not quite confplete at this
time, will contain six major meets as well as
several minor ones with the Y. M. C. A.’s of
surrounding towns. The tentative schedule
is as follows:

Feb. 11—V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.

Feb, 13—William and Mary, at Lexington,
Va.

Feb. 18—University N. C., place tentative.

Feb, 25—Duke, at Durham, N. C. ;

Feb. 27—State, at Raleigh, N. C.

March 3—Vanderbilt, at Davidson, N. C.

QUARTET ORGANIZED

(Continued from page one)
by Professor Cullum to fit its membership
for positions in direction at boys’ camps,
clubs, evangelistic services and other com-
munity enterprises. He will strive to develop
musical talent and a finer appreciation of the
technique and selection of material. Mem-
bership to this class is open to all members
of the student body. Since Professor Cul-
lum has very generously consented to give
his time and effort.in undertaking this enter-
prise, it is expected that many members of
the student body will regularly attend each
meeting of this class. The class will meet
at 8:30 Thursday evenings in Professor Cul-:
lum’s class room.

Davidson men are very fortunate in being
offered an opportunity to study under a musi-
cian of Mr, Cullum’s ability. In the offer of
th¢se activities there is an opportunity for
musical and social self-development. ‘The
need for trained men to direct singing at
religious and public functions is a@ pressing
one and the whole-hearted backing of this
enterprise by the student body is desired.

“No one is truly honorable who things

“Wildcat” earnestly hopes for, the prospects |

OPPONENTS’ SCORES

Florida, 26; Southern, 7.

N. C. State, 39; Elon, 0.
Wake Forest, 9; U. N. C,, 8.
V. M.1., 22; Richmond, 0.
Duke, 7; Furman, 13.

‘Teams of State to

Meet Good Outfits

The fall sport season this year will be fea-
tured by many gridiron classics. The Wild-
cats play their part of the leading teams in
the state and also invade three foreign states
in the quest of fame, laurels and suitable op-
ponents. Representatives of Florida, Vir-
ginia and South Carolina will have a con-
vincing sample of the kick of the Wildcat
before the season is over. It is thought that
a Georgia team will be annexed to the sched-
ule for next year.

The following is a list of the football dates,
giving the place and competing elevens of the
most outstanding grid contests of the South:

Oct. 1—Davidson-Florida, at Gainesville;
Carolina-Tennessee, at Chapel Hill; N.C.
State-Furman, at Greenville.

Sept. 30—Wake Forest-Elon, at Wake
Forest; Duke, no game; Virginia-Georgia, at
Athens; W. L.-West Virginia, at Charles-
ton, W. Va.; Georgia-Virginia, at Athens;
Georgia-Tech-V. M. I., at Atlanta; Ala-
bama-Southwestern, at Tuscaloosa.

Sept. 30—Vanderbile-Ouachita, ‘at Ashe-
ville; V. M. I.-Georgia, at Atlanta.

Octo, 8—U. N.. C.-Maryland, at Chapel
Hill; N. C. State-Clemson, at Raleigh;
Wake Forest-P. C., at Asheville.

Oct. 7—Duke-W. & L., at’ Lexington, ‘Va. ;
Davidson-Wofford, at ‘Spartanburg; Vir-
ginia-South Carolina, at Charlottesville; W.
& L.-Duke, at Lexington, Va.; Georgia-Yale,
at New Haven; Georgia Tech-Tulane, at At-
lanta; Alabama-L. S. U., at Birmingham ;
Vandermbilt-Center, at Nashville; V. M. I.-
Roanoke, at Lexington.

Oct. 15—Davidson-Elon, at Davidson; U.
N. C.-U. S. C., at Columbia; N. C. State-
Wake Forest, at Raleigh. .

Oct. 13—Duke-Richmond, at Durham;
Virginia-V. M. I., at Charlottesville; W. &
L.-Princeton, at Princeton; Georgia-Furman,
at Athens; Alabama-Georgia Tech, at At-
lanta ;Vanderbilt-Texas, at Dallas; V. M. L-
Virginia, at Charlottesville.

Oct. 22 — Davidson-Wake Forest, at
Greensboro; U. N. C.-Georgia Tech, at At-
lanta; N. C. State-Florida, at Tampa; Duke-
Navy, at Annapolis; Va.-V. P. I., at Char-
lottesville;'W. & L.-Kentucky, at Lexington,
Ky.; Ga.-Auburn, at Columbus; Ga. Tech-
Carolina, at Atlanta; Alabama-Sewanee, at
Birmingham; Vanderbilt-Tulane, at Nash-
ville; V. M. I.-Maryland, at Richmond.

Oct. 29—Davidson-V. M. I., at Davidson;
U. N. C.-State, at Raleigh; Wake Forest-
Duke, at Wake Forest; Va.-Tennessee, at
Knoxville; W. & L.-Maryland, at College
Park; Ga.-Tulane, at New Orleans; Ga.
Tech-Notre Dame, at South Bend; Alabama-
Miss. Aggies, at Tuscaloosa; Vanderbilt-
Kentucky, at Nashville.

Nov. 5—U. N. C.-V. M. I, at Lexington,
Va.; Davidson-State, at Greensboro; Wake
Forest-Furman, ‘at. Greenville; Duke, no
game; Va.-W. & L., at Lexington, Va.; Ga.-
Florida, at Jacksonville; Ga. Tech-Vander-
bilt, at Nashville; Alabama-Kentucky,’ at
Birmingham.

Nov. 12—Davidson-Carolina, at Chapel
Hill; State-Duke, at Durham, Nov. 14;
Wake Forest-Quantico, at Richmond, Nov.
11; Duke-State, at Durham, Nov. 11; Vir-
ginia-Maryland, at Charlottesville; W. & L.-
V. P. I., at Blacksburg ; Georgia-Clemson, at
Athens; Ga. Tech-L. S. U., at Atlanta; Ala-
bama-Florida, at Montgomery; Vanderbilt-
Tennessee, at Knoxville; V. M. I.-Kentucky,
at Charleston, W. Va. :

Nov. 19—Davidson, no game; Carolina-
Duke, at Durham; State, no game; Wake
Forest-High Point, at Wake Forest; Vir-
ginia, no game; W. & L., no game; Georgia-
Mercer, at Athens; Ga, Tech-Oglethiorpe,
at Atlanta; Alabama, no game; Vanderbilt-
Maryland, at! Nashville; V. M. I. no game.

Thanksgiving—Davidson-Duke, at David-
son; Carolina-Virginia,. at. Chapel- Hill;
State-South Carolina, at Columbia; Wake
Forest-Mercer, at -Asheville; W. & L.-
Florida, at Jacksonville; \Georgia-Alabama,
at_Birmingham; Ga. Tech-Auburn, at At-
lanta; Vanderbilt-Sewanee, at Nashville; V.
M. I.-V. P..1., at.Roanoke.- *

On December 3, Vanderbilt plays: Alabama
at Birmingham, and Georgia plays Georgia
Tech at Atlanta, - --

Strength fro mendeavor springs from
endeavor, and grows as the endeavor

that the matter of honor can be ovérdone-}grows. :
