TieDA VID SONTAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 1, 1927

No. 12

Wildcats Bow to Blue Devils in Annual Turkey
Day Tilt After Three Wins in as Many Seasons

Davidson Senhes inis in Second Quarter |
With Trick Offensive But Power-
ful Duke Backfield Nets
Seven Touchdowns—

48-7 :

The Duke University Blue Devils, laden
with salt, pepper, fire and brimstone, jour-
neyed down to the lair of the Wildcats for

the annual Turkey Day party aiid cooked |

their Thanksgiving goose under a pile of
red-hot coals, 48-7.

After

Long gains were few, but plays netting four

|
and five yards came with uncanny regularity |

through the central part of the Davidson line,
and theses consistent plays wrought havoc
with the Wildcat hopés.

Jankoski, heralded as great, was bottled
up well by the linemen of the Presbyterians,

but having their eyes focused on this lone |
Duke |

man, they let the remainder of the
backfield do all that he could have done in
driving the line and gaining laurels by play-
ing great football, Jan carried the pigskin
upon many occasions, but each time the Wild-
cats pounced upon him as though they were
inspired. A gain of nine yards was the great-
est distance that he could cover at any one
time.

But there were others in that backfield that |
proved to be terrors, whether they were
heralded widely, or not. Buie drove through
many times for gains that gave him a total
far above the other members of the .team.
Upon many occasions he carried the ball
twice in succession and first downs were reg-
istered up on the scoreboard. He was little
more successful in his day’s work than was
Hollingsworth, who played a great game for
Duke and supplemented the work of Buie in
a great style.

In one point, the Davidson team reached a

(Continued on page 8)

Dasidion Team Retires

With Records Balanced

Crippled But Hard F Fighting Squad
Hibernates After Plowing Thru
Heavy Schedule

Thanksgiving saw Captain Dick Grey and
his Red and Black team-mates make their
final bow and the curtain fall on the 1927
football season. A large crowd packed Rich-
ardson Field to capacity to witness the Da-
vidson finale with the Duke Blue Devils,
and although Captain Dick and _ his boys
were outclassed, brilliant plays completed by

both teams made the game very entertaining |

and exciting. The thing that has made Da-
vidson a big drawing card all season, the fact
that the Wildcats have been an unknown
quantity and are liable to do anything on the
field, again drew a lafge crowd over which a
spirit of expectancy hovered the entire game.
That the Wildcats were beaten is no disgrace,
that they played hard and clean all the way
through is much to their credit.

Looking at’the season of 1927 from the
standpoint of the championship season of
last year, the colors of Davidson have been
lowered, but the 1927 season has brought out
enough bright spots to make any Davidson
man proud of their fighting machine.

After taking Citadel into camp in the open-
ing game with 5-0 score, the Wildcats fur-
nished the first upset of the Southern season
by decisively defeating the Florida ’Gators in
their back yard. The Florida boys then dug
in to defeat Alabama among others, and make
Davidson feel all the more proud of her
victory.

(Continued on page 8)

oe

é

afast opening half that left the!
Wildcats at the little end of a‘14-7 score, the |
Blue Devils started a terrific brand of line |
plays that were of thé most consistentetype. |

Dee. 9 Set as Date for

Address Features

“Phi Beta Kappa Initiation Initiation of Four

|

[Nine Alumni ail Five Students to be

Received in Public Initiation

Phi Beta Kappa will hold a public initia-
| tion at 8:00 p. m., December 9th. The spe-

cial speaker of the initiation is Dr. David)
Robertson, one of the trustees of the Na-

tional Board of Education, and a man who
will prove to be a speaker capable for the
occasion.

October 28th issue ytPhe Davidsonian as
| having accepted bids to Phi Beta Kappa, the
national honorary scholastic fraternity, Prof.
K. J. North Caro-
lina Gamma Chaper, states that the accept-
ances of two more men have been received.
These two men are, Dr, H. Stokes Monroe,
of Charlotte, and Mr. Clifton Murphy, of
New York City.

Dr.
freshman class, is a graduate of the class of
1899, After his graduation from Davidson,
Dr. Monroe secured his M.A. degree from
the Jefferson Medical College. He has been
la physician in Columbus, Ga., and Charlotte,
N. C., for several years.

Foreman, secretary of the

Monroe, who has a son in the present

In addition to those men announced in the |

As I. R.C. ( C. Convenes

The International Relations Club held its
regular bi-monthly meeting Friday night,
November 25th. This was the first initiation
meeting of the The following men
were taken into the society: Thomas Hill,
Fred Ratehford, Lawrence Dumas, and B.
W. Dickson.

Dr.
evening.

year,

McConnell was the speaker of the
His subject was the Geneva Con-
ference. He began his discussion with a re-
view_of the Washington Conference called
by Coolidge-two years ago, Dr. McConnell
pointed out the fact that this association was
arranged to offset the unpopularity gained by
the Republican party in not joining the
League of Nations. The United States made
a serious mistake in agreeing to the 5-5-3
plan of battleship disarmament with no pro-
limitation of sub-
marines. This was éemsidered the only pos-
sible way of breaking up the alliance between
Japan and Englaid. However, with no light
naval craft limitation arranged, the agree-
ment did little The object the

vision for cruisers and

good, of

| Geneva Conference was to remedy this lack.

| Mr. Murphy, after his graduation from}

| Davidson ‘with the class of 1913, became a| : ; : us
| England rejected this proposition because she

student of law at Harvard University.’ After |

taught for a few years in Asheville, but soon

prominent law firm of New York City.

| These two men were tendered bids upon
the regular bid day, but due to extenuating
circumstances their acceptance has been but
lately received. Mr. Murphy has been in
Europe and has only just returned.

It will be remembered that of the twelve
men who had already accepted their bid only
five of them are students. Among the mem-
bers of the students are D. H.-Howard, H.
B. Arbuckle, C. G. Davidson, J. S. Gray, and
J. S. McAlister. Those other than the stu-
dents who received and accepted bids are,
Dr. F. W. Rankin, of Rochester, Minnesota ;

(Continued on page 3)

Reporter Selected
‘as Correspondent

In compliance with a decision made at the
recent semi-annual meeting of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Association the
staff of The Davidsonian has selected Dean
Rusk as press correspondent for the paper.
In this capacity Rusk, who has had quite a
| bit of previous journalistic experience, will
take care of Davidson’s part of the newly
formed Callegiate Press.

The Collegiate Press, which is modelled
after the Associated Press that serves large
newspapers in all parts of the United States,
|is designed to furnish interesting news to all
the college papers that are members of the
organization and in this way to arouse in-
terest and to advertise the schools. This
system will consist of a press correspondent
from the staff of each paper; this corre-
spondent will accumulate all the news of in-
terest in his college and will mail it to the
press correspondents of the other college pa-
pers in the state. Because of the difference
in the dates of publication of the papers this
news must be collected as fast as it accumu-
lates in order that it may be fresh and inter-
esting.

The originator of the idea of a collegiate
press in North Carolina is H. L. Hester, of
Duke University, who is now general man-
ager of the association.

This organization is said to be unique in

(Continued on page 5)

| graduation from the law school, Mr. Murphy | : :
jher colonies with such a navy.

joined the firm of Cotton and Franklin, a)

| A 5-5-3 plan of limiting light craft with a

maximum limit of 150,000 tons was proposed.

did not feel that she could properly protect
The United

States could not accept the proposal, that

(Continued on page 2)

Davidson Names
All-State Squadron

The time approached
when sporting editors are the butts of fre-
quent invectives various railings and
rantings from supporters the
teams. the time has

of year has now

and
frenzied of

state In other words,

now come to make that most mythical of all;

mythical selections, the all-state team. The
present season in North Carolina is probably
more muddled and confused than it has ever
been before, State has a clear claim to the
title, but .aside from this. the situation
rather vague. For instance, Wake
defeated Carolina, Davidson tied Wake For-
est and was severely trounced by Carolina.
Or another, State defeated Duke by the nar-
row margin-of two points and then defeated
Carolina by a larger score; in turn Carolina
defeated Duke by three touchdowns. And
this has been the general trend of affairs dur-
ing the*entire season,

State,
up, carry’ off honors in this selection, each
placing three of their men on the mythical
selection. Carolina and Davidson have two
apiece, and Wake Forest one. Probably some
will claim) that’ prejudice the
selection from here with two Wildcats on the
team, but this will be explained later.

The selection follows: Ends, Childress
(State) and Arrowood (Davidson;
Phelps (Wake Forest) and = Thompson
(Duke); guards, Nicholson (State) and
Ferris (Carolina) ; center Schwartz (Caro-
lina); quarter, Due (Duke); halves, Me-
Dowell (State) and Grey (Davidson) ; full,
Jankoskie (Duke).

There. have been four, possibly five, ends
in the state this year worthy of particular
mention, Childress and Arrowood were

is

Forest

as champions, and Duke, as runners-

has swayed

tackles,

(Continued on page 2)

Winston-Salem Pastor

is Speaker at Vespers

Alumni of Gastonia
Hosts to Wildcats
at Recent Banquet

The football. team of Davidson College

won the state title in 1926 and were feted ex-
tensively by local Davidson alumni associa-
tions in all parts of the state. Davidson's
team finished this season in the cellar position
among the Big Five; but this has in no wise
lessenedthe number of banquets planned for
the«Wildcat gridders. Instead, it seems to
have increased them,

The first banquet for the vanquished Wild-
cats was arranged by the alumni of Gaston
County, and was given last Saturday evening
in Gastonia at the Armington Hotel. The
speakers at this banquet were the following:
Hugh Query, Dr. J. P. Matheson, S. A. Rob-
inson, W. R. Sparrow, Coaches Younger and
Tilson, F, L. Jackson, Prof. W. W. Wood,
Captain Dick Grey, Dr. Glenn, and Ernest
Milton. Davidson alumni residing in Salis-
bury have planned a second banquet for the
team at 7:00 o'clock Saturday evening, De-
cember 10th, at the Dutch Lunch. In addi-
tion to the team itself, th ecoaches, the college
quartet, and those Davidson students from
Salisbury and Rowan County have been in-
vited. An attempt is being made to secure
S. C. Williams, of Winston-Salem, an alum-
nus of Davidson in the class of 1905, as the
speaker of the evening. :

Mooresville alumni have invited the team
to be their guests at an early date. The
Charlotte Alumni Association is also plan-
ning to honor the Wildcats, which makes a
total of four banquets:for them, state champs
of 1926 and tail-enders in 1927.

Meaning of a True Christian is
Theme of Dr. Foster’s Talk—
Dr. Hood Introduces Speaker

“What does it mean to you to be a.Chris-
tian?” asked Dr. J. S. Foster, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Winston-
Salem, in an address delivered before the Y.
M. C. A. in Shearer Hall, Sunday night.

Dr. Frazer Hood, in introducing the speak-
er, declared that he was one of the foremost
thinkers in the Southern Presbyterian
Church, and should therefore be especially
interesting to college students.

Dr. Foster in the opening .part of his
speech spoke of the familiarity of the term
“Christian,” and then proceeded to show what
it meant to the Apostle Peter. “Ye are par-
takers of the Divine nature; ye are to be par-
takers of the Divine suffering and the Di-
vine glory.”

The length and breadth of the Christian
life is compassed between partaking of the
nature of God and of sharing in His glory.
It is a challenge to every redblooded man to
be a sharer in suffering as well as in reward.
Even as Jesus Christ shared in the suffering
for God so we can share in the suffering for
Christ by living the highest, holiest, and most
matchless life rather than one of self-abase-
ment and self-effacement.

The speaker then pointed out that Christ's
most severe suffering was not when He was
maltreated beford Pilate. His hardest trial
was spiritual and not physical, and came on
the Mount of,,Transfiguration. Here Jesus
must haye been tempted to avoid the cross
by ascending into heaven along with Moses
and Elijah. Had He yielded, there would
have been no’ resurrection and no real hope
of salvation in Christianity.

‘ (Continued on page 7)

Nine Debates Arranged
by Members of Council
on Extensive Schedule

Five Teams to Represent Davidson
in Nine Clashes
DIFFICULT SCHEDULE
Protection of Capital Invested in
Foreign Lands is Subject of
Discussion

A debating schedule, believed to be one of
the most undertaken by a
Southern college or university, has been ar-
ranged for the Davidson College debaters
and was announced by Henr T. Powell, pres-
ident of the Davidson Forensic Council.
Powell
embraces two extensive tours for the David-
in the? East another
Both trips are scheduled
In addition to the

ambitious ever

The schedule as announced by Mr,

son orators, one and
through the South.
for the month of March,
two tours, the Davidson debaters will engage
in three home encounters with representatives
of the leading colleges of the nation.

Five members of last year’s debating team
are still at Davidson and will automatically
become members of the squad. From a long
list of students who have registered for the
preliminary try-outs to be held December Sth,
ten other debaters will be selected. Various
tests will be conducted to determine which of
the fifteen men shall comprise the varsity
team of ten members. All try-outs and as-
signments will be under the direction of the
forensic .council,

After consultation with representatives of
the colleges included on the Davidson sched-
ule, the query for the debates has been decid-
“Resolved, That the
to protect by

ed upon as follows:
United States should
force of arms capital invested °in foreign
lands except by actual declaration of war.”
The schedule as announced by Mr. Powell
includes debates with the following colleges
and universities ;

March 13th,
Gainesville, Fla.

March 15th, University of the South, Se-
wanee, Tenn.

(Continued on page 5)

cease

University of Florida, at

Inspecting Officer
to Come Here Soon

Davidson’s R. O. T..C. Unit will be in-
spected some time before Christmas. holi-
days for the purpose of being recom-
mended for inspection in the spring for
the Distinguished Rating which the unit
has held for the past two years, The in-
spector will be Maj. Harry J. Malony,
cOmmanding officer of the Fourth Corps
Area. Major Maloney is the temporary
commander of this corps area until Maj-
R. C. Holliday, of Camp Lewis, Washing-
ton, takes charge in February, 1928.

Colonel Rowell, who has always been
a great friend of Davidson, has for the
past two years inspected the unit and
recommended it for inspection by the
staff from the War Department. He was
removed to the Pacific coast during last
summer and will not be in this section
this year.

Davidson has held the distinguished
Rating for the past two years, making the
highest percentage of efficiency in the
Fourth Corps Area including the South-
eastern States. The unit shows many im-
provements over last year, according to
officials.

The weekly platoon competition for the
best line on parade -has so far resulted in
a tie for first place between the first
platoon of “A” company and second pla-
toon of “B” company. Lieutenant Low-
rance is in command of the first platoon
of “A” company. Lieut. R. A.-Gidnn has
charge of the “B” cqampany platoon.”

