2

2

-:- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

The “D” Club is to be commended on the
spirit it showed in its recent-decision to re-
frain from going around and disturbing the
students after its initiations. This custom
is one which has been long in vogue at
Davidson, and one which has perhaps hurt
the spirif of the student body quite a bit.

In accordance with the true Wildcat spirit,
the “D” club decided to do away with the
custom for the good of the school. The
members of the “D” Club have shown the
true Wildcat spirit even further by pledg-
ing themselves to work on two or more ath-
letes during the rest of the year of the year
and during the summer, and to interest them
in coming to Davidson. It would be well
for each member of the student body to
pledge higwelf to do the same thing, and if
every member of the student body would
live up to his pledge, we would have more
and better athletes coming to Davidson.

Coach Tex and Professor Patterson have
also had their grapplers working hard for
the last week. The wrestlers will not- have
any meets before Christmas, but they will
have their first one soon after the holidays,
and have been doing some hard work in
preparation for it for the last week or two.
The wrestling schedule has not been defi-
nitely decided on yet, but it will be a stren-
uous one, and will probably contain at least
one good trip. Just as in the case of the
basketball team, the letter men from fast
year have been showing up well, and several
promising wrestlers are working ‘tard to fill
the positions left vacant by those of last
year’s team who graduated.

There are only three of last year’s wrest-
ling team who made letters who are back,
namely, Flythe, Hill, and Captain Garrison.
Flythe, who wrestled in the 129 pound class
last year, is taking strenuous workouts in an
attempt to bring his weight down enough so
that he can wrestle in the 119 pound class.
Tom Hill, who wrestled in the heavyweight
class last year, will wrestle in his own class
this year, the 169 pound class. Captain Gar-
rison also wrestled out of his class last year,
but this year, too, will wrestle in’ his own
class, the 149 pound class. Several of the
others who are showing up well and who
look good for future wrestlers, are Glenn,
Christenbury, Harper, Warren, L. K. Prit-
chett, Brohard, Russell, Morris, Frank
Brown, Herriot, and Cox.

The Freshman grapplers are also showing
good form. Most of those out are out for
the first time, but some of the candidates
have had training at various prep and high
schools, and are showing up especially well.
Estridge, Boyle, Coble, and Stroud are
showing up well in the various weights. A
complete list of those out includes the names
of several promising grapplers, and of sev-
eral who look good for next year’s varsity
team. Those out are: Doduch, Umphlett,
Norfleet, Moore, Stroud, Preston, Coble,
Pepper,’ Smith, McKeithan, Laurence, Jones,
Ellis, Estridge, and Knight.

Manager Carson has announced his bas-
ketball schedule and the 15 games which have
been arranged for, promise some stiff op-
Position, There is only one open date, and
if this date is filled later, the schedule will
contain 16 of the hardest games which have
been arranged in recent years.

“I see, Mr.’ Blathers, you're a triple
treat man with your professors.”

“Huh, howsat?” ,

“You kick, pass, and run.” — Illinois
Siren.

Ist. Proud Mother—“I call my baby
pales because he’s such a dear little
lamb.

and P. M.—“And I call mine William

Dean_because he howls so much.”—An-
napolis Log. ...

to

.CHARLOTTE | ~
KNOXVILLE ~~

gies a, ae

Wildcats to Meet State
in Greensboro Next Fall

Game Probably Will be Played in
Kenan Stadium

Greensboro has been selected as the prob-
able location of the Davidson-N. C. State
football game in 1928. This announcement
was made by W. W. Wood, the graduate
manager of athletics at Davidson, after an
executive meeting of the Athletic Associa-
tion. The game will in all probability be
played in the Greensboro Memorial Stadium.

the council has considered bids from other
North Carolina cities, but it is not likely
that the game will be shifted to any other
city.

The Davidson Council has not taken any
definite action in regard to the Davidson-
Clemson game. Manager Wood reports that
no further steps will be taken until word has
been received from authorities at Clemson.
It is believed that if Clemson agrees to a
two-year contract, the first game will be
played there and the other at Davidson on
the next year. If the two colleges fail to
agree, the games will be played in neutral
North Carolina cities.

Offers from the Army, Washington &
Lee, V. P. I., Mercer, Hampden-Sidney, and
Center, had to be declined because. of con-
flicting dates with North Carolina Confer-
ence teams whom the Wildcats will play as
usual the following season.

The complete schedule for the season is as
follows:

Sptember 22—Guilford at Davidson.

September 29—Clemson (Place:
cided).

Pa te LM eae

 October“13—Wofford at Davidson.
October 20—Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
October 27—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
November 3—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
November 10—N. C. State at Greensboro.
November 17—Carolina,at Davidson.
November 29—(Thanksgiving) Duke at

Durham.

Dutch Wearn Gives
Out Track Schedule

Dutch Wearn, track manager for 1928,
has arranged a schedule which, although not
yet complete, will include four meets with
members of the Big Five. Davidson will
also compete in the State meet, held, as last
year, at Greensboro, and, although not yet
definitely decided, it is possible that two
other meets will be arranged.

Track practice will start early in March
in order to put the team in the best shape
possible for the meet with N. C. State, which
has been scheduled for the 31st of that
month. f

According to present indications, eight let-
ter men in this sport will be back this year
to’ represent Davidson on the ‘cinder path.
John Melton and Bob Kell will again con-
tend for places in the dashes, with Melton
also in the running broad jump. Dan Left-
wich will perform in the weight, Craig, Fry
and Elmer Brown in the low and high hur-
dles; Hampton Jennings wiltsagain be seen
in the pole vault event, while Camper O’Neal
will probably run the mile as he did last
year. Don Martin and John Ely, who were
prevented from competing in the cross-coun-
try. races this fall, may be able to try their
skill and endurance in the distances.

Besides these letter men,' Whittle, Bro-
hard, Lafferty and. King are ‘among the
promising Sophomores who will probably be
heard from this year.

Although there are several creditable dash
men in college now, Davidson’s main hope in
this event lies in the possible return of John
Currie, who could be counted on for a first

unde-

W Cafeterias

are catering to you

_. {ATLANTA Soon) —

~ ASHEVILLE”
‘RALEIGH

It has not been disclosed whether or not |”

| 1926-27,

CAPTAIN WILSON

Captain Wilson to Lead
Wilkcats in First Game

Game With Salisbury “Y” Saturday
Will Open Season

Having practiced for the past four weeks,
the Wildcat quintet will meet the Salisbury
“Y” on Saturday, December 17th. _ The
game will be called at 7:30 in the Davidson
gym. The Wildcat squad has been scrim-
maging for the past week or two and has
been rounding out into fine shape for its
first encounter.

This year’s nucleus will be built around
Ben Wilson, Captain and guard; Charlie
Harrison, letter man and guard; Bennie Mc-
Aulay, a forward of last year’s varsity, and
Andy Hewlett, who did not play last year.
Pritchett, who was the captain of the last
year’s Freshman team, is also making a bid
for a berth on the quintet.

The Wildcat team has been putting in a
good bit of work lately; dué partly to the
fact that last year the Salisbury club had an
excellent team“ and is expected to have as
good one this year. The Wildcats defeated
Salisbury last year by the large margin of
one point. Not'to be outdone, the Salisbury
boys turned around and on their own court
beat Davidson by an equal score. Due to
the closeness of the opposing strength of
these two teams, partisans of both sides are
looking forward to a very good game.

Saturday’s line-up will probably be as fol-
lows; Hewlett and McAulay, forwards;
Captain Wilson, at the center position; and
Harrison and Pritchett, at guards.

Fresh Quintet Cut
to Seventeen Men

After two weeks of preliminary practice,
Coach “Monk” Mattox has cut the Frosh
basketball squad down to 17 men and is
concentrating on these. As there are no
Frosh games before February, the Freshmen
are having plenty of time to get in trim.
Those who are showing up especially well
are: Rusk, center and forward; Gibson,
guard; Wilson, center; Shepherd, forward;
and McAlister, forward. Ki

Coach Mattox seems very well pleased
with the Frosh material this year and plans
to keep the squad as it now is. No games
have been definitely scheduled as yet, but it
is expected that several games will be sched-
uled shortly.

“T heard that a girl ran away with a
train.”

“What was her motive?”

“Locomotive.”—Centre Colonel.

“I have a suit for every day in the
week,” ere

“Yes?”

“This is it.’—Blue Dragon.

Officers from fourteen foreign coun-
schools Sischetaoin shrdlu shrdlu shrdd
tries trained at | United States Army
schools or with American troops during

place in the 100 and “220 yard dashes.
The schedule so far completed is as fol-
lows: Date, College, and Place, respectively :
March 3ist—N. C. State—Davidson.
April 4th—Duke—Durham.
April 21st—Wake Forest-—-Wake Forest.
April 28th—U. of S. C.—Davidson.

-won letters in basketball for three consecu-

Fifteen Freshmen Grid

Stars Receive Nume

Season Not Very Successful But

D. C. numerals were awarded the follow-
ing men for service on the Freshman foot-
ball team: J. R. Estridge, R. Z. Johnston,
and Thad Brock, all of Barium Springs;
Warren David, of Wilmington; J. D. Foil
and James Foil, of Salisbury; Dan Goody-
koontz, of Bluefield, W. Va.; C. H. Farrell,
of Dunn; W. B. Pope, of Lumberton; James

L. Page, of Gastonia; H. S. Covington, of
Red Springs; William Mason, of Kings
Mountain, and Charles Parker, of High
Point.

Judging by the scores of the past season,
the Freshmen have not had a particularly
successful season in football. First, Oak
Ridge defeated the Wilkittens by the score
of 11-0, on a muddy, sloppy field. Incideri-
tally, the Oak Ridge boys won the prep
school championship of the*State and are
claimants for Southern honors. In_ their
next tilt, that with the Wofford Freshmen,
the Davidson boys won their one game of
the season, by a score of 12-0 The score of
the succeeding game, between the Wildkit-
tens and the. Duke’ Freshmen, won by Duke,
was 19-0, on the latter’s field. The State
Freshmen came down to the Wildcats’ lair
and sufficiently bearded them to be enabled
to take home the long end of a 12-19 score.
A week later the State boys won the cham-
pionship of the state among college freshman
football teams, In their last encounter, that
with the P. C. Freshmen, the Wildkittens
were defeated by the score of 32-6.

. Scores, however, do not necessarily denote

Good Material Shows Up. |:

Proctor, of Lincolnton; R. W. Gilliam and].

Rifle Team Adopts

Extensive Schedule:

Cadet Captain Julian Lake, of oe
Ga., in charge of the Davidson College R.
O. T. Gy rifle team, has announced the com-
pletion of a schedule of 19 matches in which
the Davidson team will compete ‘during the
remainder of the 1927-1928 college year. The

_|schedlule, which includes matches with many

of the leading colleges of the nation, is be-
ieved to be the most extensive ever under-
ken by a local rifle squad. The schedule
January 7—West Virginia University.
February 4—Oklahoma A. and M.
“February 4—Louisiana State University.

February 4—Emory University.

Febsuary6-11—Davidson Open Match.

Febéuary 11—Culver Military Academy.

February 11—Mississippi Aggies.

Febraarg 15—Texas A and M.

February 18—New Mexico Military In-
stitute.

February 18—Kemper Military: School.
February 25—Oregon Agricultural Col-
lege.

February 25—University of Dayton.

February 25—College of Western Mary-
land.

March 10—University of Vermont.

March 17—North Dakota State.

In addition to the matches shown above,
the Davidson team has competed in a match
with a rifle team from Statesville, and has
just completed firing in the Scabbard and:
Blade Trophy Match. Matches with Oak
Ridge Military Institute, and’ Virginia Mili-
tary Institute have been scheduled, but dates
have not been announced. In all of the
matches except the last two, Davidson will
fire on her own range, the completed targets
being sent in for comparison with those of
her opponents.

varsities. In the line, Mason and Brock
showed themselves as very able guardsmen.
Mason, at the pivot position, played good
football throughout the season; in the ab-
sence of\Dan Goodykoontz, he acted as cap-
tain. Marrow, who entered when the season
was rather far advanced, displayed a very
good toe. In the backfield Captain Goody-

the strength or latent ability of a team. De-
spite their rather poor scores for the past

| season, the Wildkittens had some very prom-

ising material for the Fresh team and should
send up some very good men for the future

CHARLIE HARRISON

With the opening of the basketball season,
one of the mainstays of the Wildcat quintet
Promises to be Charlie Harrison, who has

tive years. Playing guard on the team,
Harrison is outstanding in his floor work.
He is particularly noted for speed in cov-
ering the floor, and is said to be one of the

Complete line of Wright a

fs WHO’S WHO IN SER

and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

koontz and Joe McCall, playing either quar-
ter or half; Estridge at quarter, and Pope
and David, at half, showed themselves as
very promising material. David in particu-
Jar was very good on defensive play.

Charlie Harrison, Wildcat Athlete,
Begins Last Year With Local Quintet

best dribblers ever on a Davidson five. His
consistent playing at guard was an important
factor in the success of the team last year,
and makes him one of the main hopes of the
coming season.

Besides in basketball, Harrison has taken
a prominent part. in other branches of ath-
letics. His athletic ability was first shown in
his Freshman- year-when he won letters_in
football and basketball. The next year he
received letters in the same two sports. Last
year his versatility was further shown when
he won a letter in baseball, in addition to
letters for the other two sports. While he
has never received a letter in track, he has
taken part in several track mets, and has
featured in his broad jumping.

During the past football season, Harrison,
p'aying halfback, was one of the fastest men
in the backfield. His brilliant end runs often
resulted in long gains, and contributed large-
ly to the Wildcats’ offensive strength. His
consistent gains in the Florida game con-
tributed largely to the victory for the Wild-
cats, and will long be remembered by Da-
vidson students.

In the awarding of the Norris Athletic
Trophy last year, won by Bohannon, Harri-
son was one of the runners-up for the honor.
He is one df the outstanding athletes in col-
lege this year, and will be a strong contender
for the award this year.

nd Ditson, Spalding, Reach

VICE AND QUALITY

CITY DRY

|

Neely sad ley lon West

W. L. HOBBS, Prop..
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

CLEANERS

Six for Five fi

a Will Call on You Monday and Thursday Nights.

