THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER .1, 1927

= *

WILDCATS BOW

—_

(Continued from page 1)

point that could be termed as brilliant. This
was in their trick plays. They were worked
out to perfection and,.three of them went for
a total of 70 yards. Lateral passes were used
and executed by Grey and Harrison that took
the Duke team by surprise and resulted in the
longest gains of the day. Two of these plays
in succession resulted in the lone touchdown
scored by Davidson.

The game opened as Duke kicked to Da-
vidson. After three plays'had failed to gain
the required*distance, Grey was rushed as he
punted and a short kick netted only 15 yards.
Duke took the ball on their 40-yard ntarker
and from there went over for the opening
score a few minutes after play had begun.

In the second quarter, after punts had been
exchanged, the Blue Devils found themselves
deep in their own territory, and here they
pulled a play that pulled them back from any
disadvantage they might have suffered. A
low punt was gotten off from close forma-
‘tion, and soared over the heads of the entire
Davidson team, The Wildcats were on the
“offensive 20 yards from their own goal line.
After-failing to gain; they punted to Duke,
and shortly after this the score was 14-0 to
the credit of Duke.

Duke had possession of the ball on their
own 45-yard marker, and only a few inches
to make on the last down, but the Davidson
team held them and it was then that two lat-
eral passes, with Grey carrying the ball, net-
ted 44 yards and a pass from Grey to Mc-
Geachy was over the line for Davidson’s only
touchdown. Grey dropkicked the extra point.
The half ended with the Davidson team trail-
ing 14-7,

If such a game could have a determining
break in it, it came early in the second half.
Davidson kicked off to Duke and held them
in their tracks for three downs. Buie at-
tempted to punt, but was rushed too much,
and wildly heaved the ball in a northeasterly
direction. .Harrison, playing for a return,
cut the end out and the ball came down near
the two. The pass was ruled completed be-
cause of interference, and it was then that
the Duke team started on a rampage that was
to continue until the Wildcats were snowed
under,

The story of the remaining touchdowns is
a story of Buie, Hollingsworth and Jankoski

=

plowing through the Davidson line and of
passes completed from the fingers of Buie.

Late in the third quarter Davidson had
possession of the ball near mid-field and a
triple pass ending in Harrison’s arms netted
35 yards, and another score seemed possible,
but a bad pass from center resulted in a re-
covery for the Blue Devils, and a threat was
wiped out.

Again near the end of the game, Arrowood
blocked a punt on Buie’s toe, but fingering
the ball as he attempted to pick it up with
an open field before him, cost too much time
and he was downed 30 yards from the goal
line. Again the Davidson team could not
gain through the strong Duke defence.

Culp, Kelly, Thompson and Hunter played
great games in the Duke line, opening up
holes for their backs to twist and plunge
their way'through. Hunt, Melton and Arro-
wood bore the brunt of the Davidson defence.

The line-up and summary:

Duke Position Davidson
Warren ........-. 104 Dyes epepeprre Arrowood
Thompson ~---.--- MoT oeecosescasy Baker
JONES ascoceocuce eugluGasascccs McColgan
Brummitt ¢----. Center ---- McConnell, R.
MUNOMNG soucsscubes RGiscssosscasess Laws
Cilpreecvorssuese Re aes Grey, J.
KOY, coukuccsdees RD vcesccsus McGeachy
Biles coseeelEos eQB csssseseu Harrison
Hatchet: coseasuecs IAG peepee Grey, D.
Hollingsworth --.. RH ~---2___--_- Black
Jankoski ---------- BB esos vereucs Nesbit
Score by periods:
DUKG canewuedoodo sel ee 7 7 20 14—48
Davidson 070 07

Substitutions—For Duke: Bennett. for
Kelly; Hunter for Brummitt; Adams for
Hollingsworth; Weaver for Adams; Weath-
erby for Culp; Peeler for Bennett; Bolich
for Jankoski.

For Dividson: Melton for Grey, J.; Hunt
for McColgan; Matthews for Black; Mc-
Connell, T., for Moulden; Kell for Mat-
thems; Baker for Laws; Hampton for Mc-
Connell, R.; Parrish for Harrison; Smith
for Leftwich,

Officials: Majors (Auburn), referee;
Case (Lehigh), umpire; Rawson (Georgia),
headlinesman.

DAVIDSON TEAM

(Continued from page one)

Then came the games with Wofford and
Elon, which were won without a great deal

of trouble, although it was necessary to keep
the first string men in these games all the
time. ;

The turning point of the season caime
when Wake Forest, whom early-season dope
rated very low, fought Davidson to a stand-
still and a 13-13 tie in the Memorial stadium
at Greensboro. It was a surprisingly hard
game, and the tie was snatched from the bag
just as the crowd was beginning to leave in
the final quarter.

From then on the Wildcats found the trav-
eling very rough until the end of the season.
Fighting all the time, giving their best, they
still found themselves matched against super-
ior teams and were forced to admit three de-
feats in a row at the hands of the Big Five
and a 19-0 defeat from V. M. I.

The game Home-coming day was played
before a large gathering of old Davidson
men and the team gave the Cadets a very
lively afternoon, but were unable to push
over a score.

Greensboro again saw Davidson in action
against the state champions of North Caro-
lina State. The great McDowall turned in
one of his greatest games and was too much
for our boys to handle. His work was almost
completely responsible for Davidson’s d€feat.

The following week,.at Chapel Hill, Caro-
lina rose up and in one of the two best

games she played, avenged the stinging de- |

feat of last year by a 27-0 count. This was
the largest score by which Carolina has
beaten Davidson in many ‘seasons. Something

evidently happened to Carolina just before.

the game that lasted them for the last twe
weeks, because within seven days they had
tucked Duke away by 18-0.

The Thanksgiving game with Duke was
lost 48-7. A brilliant triple pass play with
Charley Harrison ending up the play with a
25-yard run was Davidson’s feature play.
Duke opened. up with the most powerful
back-field drive of any team seen in action

against Davidson in many seasons, and were |

able to ‘gain consistently, Jankoski, all-state
fullback, and Buie, mentioned by many as
all-state quarter, leading the attack.

In games won and lost, Davidson broke

exactly even, losing 4, tying 1, and winning |

4. The points scored were, Davidson 81,
Opponents 134.

To pick out individual stars from the team
for the past season is difficult. Thanksgiv-
ing is always a time of sadness, when men
who have been fighting it out for Old Da-

|

vidson pass from the field for the last time.
Tears were in’the eyes of many Davidson
students and friends as Captain Dick Grey
was carried off the field on the shoulders of
his classmates. Dick’s fighting heart and re-
markable ability on the field have made him
one of Davidson’s most valuable players.
His toe saved many games for the school
during his three yeare on the squad, and his
loss will be felt very heavily by the team and
the school alike. He is typically a Davidson
man, hard-fighting, clean-playing, a friendly
gentleman.

The other Seniors who finished their ca-
reers this year, among them, in the line, are
“Fats” Laws and Lewis McColgan. These
men have seen plenty of service regularly
and have been two mainstays in the forward
wall. “Fats” was the most consistent player
on the steam, while Lewis was hard to beat,
receiving mention as all-state. On the ends,
the squad will lose three varsity men. Hugh
Arrowood, the old reliable, closes out his
football with a season of hard-playing, con-
sistent action. He is one of the team’s pil-
lars, being a member of the championship
team of last season. Weéarn and McGeachy,
other Seniors who are leaving, have alter-
nated at the other end positions and have both

played very excellent games. Wearn was in-
jured in the Carolina game and was out of
the Duke game with a sprained ankle. Both
men have been valuable and will be missed
next year.

In the backfield, Mutt Nisbet, with the ex-
ception of Captain Grey, has seen most serv-
ice, and will be gréatly needed when the next
team is built. He has battered forward walls
all season with a drive that has gained plenty
of yards this year. His defensive work has
been good, even more valuable than his of-
fensive play. Charlie Harrison, the thrill-
furnished and ball-toter de luxe, has atso
done his last »bit for Davidson. Charlie’s
sudden dashes in gloomy moments have
brought back the fighting spirit to the team
on several occasions. Ed Wilson, at quarter,
has acted as field-general for nearly the en-
tire season. His accurate passing has been
responsible for many large gains, particu-
larly near the first of the season, and he was
a big factor in Davidson’s flying start.

Other men on the squad have played ex-
cellent games all season, but space will not
permit reference to them.

Fresh Murphy is so honest he won't
own any other car except a straight
eight.

CREDENZA, $300.00

The New
ORTHOPHONIC
VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

The Finest Musical Instrument
‘in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C

-

ALLAN FREW

’

SO ON NDNA DODO IODA OTANI DOS DODO OSLO OOOO OOO MOTO TE DOV ONIN
B
By

EFIRD’S—

Will Show at Eu. Hall

on

Also

|  Tues.and Wed. Dec.6and7 |

| AFull Line of Men’s Clothing, Top |
| Coats, Suits and Haberdashery — |

| ‘An Excellent Line of Appropriate Gift Suggestions

Campus Representative :

y * is }
is
is
is
is

is
:
ig
i
is
i
i
i

Ke

“A
t

=
at

oe ee

NURIA Svind Sure Nite STE WOME NETEC YEREC NEMEC NORE NEMEC NET NEE? STE?

