THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME
WITH WITHERS |

Five-Year Contracts
Initial Work-Outs
Captain Directs Work
Nine Teams Practice
Season Ends Soon

2
Under the direction of Monk Mattox, li | °
freshman mentor, the varsity and fresh- | South Caro Ina invasion
man baseball battery-men have been) Bl A 9 . {
holding workouts for the last week. Some | asts spirations 0
few men who are endeavoring to land ’Cat Basketball Squad
berths in the gardens took part in the

yractices and others will turn out in full | ; oe
aves this week. After the Close of | Davidson Wins One Game Out of
basketball season Coach Younger will Five Starts But Contest Sharply
have complete charge of the sandlotters erin : : :
and will have a job on his hands, Wells, Falling into a losing streak, the Wild-
is the only top-notch pitcher in the lot ae basketeers were able Wo) vb only eine
eligible for the team, but some dark| 82m out of five starts during their trip
horses may be uncovered before the be- through South Carolina. Losing first to
ginning Ae the Seacon, the Pariss'Island Marines and then taking

snes a game from the College of Charleston 35-

They're coming back—Monk and Tex, | 29, the Cats then dropped three in a row
those two war-horses of North Carolina| to Citadel and the University.of South
football. Not only next year, but the Carolina. Citadel won their first 41-30
year after that, and the year after that, and the second by a score of 40-36 while
and Ain't it a the Gamecocks were rushed to the finish
grand This one to get away with a 34-29 victory.

the

so on, for five

and
anouncement

years.
feeling?
will do more to boost

glorious

In the game with the College of Char-

hopes of ardent Wildcat supporters than leston the affair was closely-contested
any other possible one or dozen. These’ and hard-fought throughout with the
two men since their advent to the Hill, teamwork of the Wildcats featuring.

four years ago as coaches have developed Snappy passing and goal tossing by the
from almost nothing one championship; Davidson team enabled them to drop the
team and three others almost equally as) Charlestonians in their trail leave them
good in football In basketball, | farther behind as the game progressed,
baseball track, and cross-country they As the end neared the Wildcats were pre-

alone.

J

Monogram Club Bows to Va. Techmen Down

_ Davidson Grapplers. in

Davidson Cagers in yack
Period Contest, 33 to 29 Exciting No-Fall Match
McAul Captain Frierson and Estridge

Anderson and McAuley Lead Team
Conquer Gobble “~Matmen—
Crinkley Battles to a Draw

to Win Over Famed Charlotte |
Aggregation

On Tuesday night, February 14th, the | Virginia Polytechnic Institute defeated
Davidson quintet overcame the famed! the Davidson College wrestling team here
Carolina Monogram Basketball Club, Of| Saturday night: score, Virginia Poly.
Charlotte, defeating them by a score of | 131-2; Davidson 7-1-2,

33 to 29. An extra five-minute period | hotly contested the whole day through, |
was necessary to determine the winner.

\.the score being even until the last two
The game ended with the score tied at/ classes when Virginia Poly. took the 175
28 each. During the intermission, how-

: ;pound class and the unlimited, to go!
lever, the Wildcats picked up just enough

ahead by six points and thus take the |
extra breath to completely run away with) meet, There were no falls but interest |
the fagged Monograms, and two field |

have developed units that stand favor-
ably under any light they may be placed. |
A prophecy may not be entirely out of |
order: “The best is yet to be.” |

The first public appearance, as it were, |
of Coach Younger since this important |
announcement was made by Dr. W. W. |
Wood, faculty director of athleties,

was |
Monday night in Columbia. There in|
the Palmetto State capital Monk was |

the guest of honor at a banquet tendered!
by the Columbia Alumni Associaton held
just before the basketball game between
the Wildcats and the Gamecocks of the
University of South Carolina. This
newly formed association, in fact the
meeting Monday night was the first for-
mal one held by thé-club, is the result of
effort from Ernest Milton, Alumni secre-
tary, and a group of interested Colum-
bians. Several of this last group who
may be named are Dr. Davidson Doug-
las, new president of the University,
OkKey Allison and “Buck” Shaw.

Harry Goodykoontz, captain of the
Wildcat cinder path artists, has had
charge of the track practices since the
opening of the season, Offiially, practice
has yet to begin, as Coach Tilson is now
directing spring football, but as the first
meet of the year comes in March, the
aspirants for positions on the team are
being whippéd into shape now. Several
likely prospects—new faces to track sup-
porters—are to be seen this spring. A
number of men from the cross country
squad of last fall are combatting for the
distance runs. The withdrawal from
school of Clement Penn, holder of the
college two-mile record, has opened a
place in that race for somecne.

Right ‘or nine athletic teams—varsity
teams—have been in action during the
past week. The cagers invaded South
Carolina none too successfully, however;
the grapplers were match@d by ’V, P. I.;
tennis got under way with the announce-
ment that additional- courts are to be
constructed; Captain Elkins is managing
the boxers; the sharp-shooters of the
rifle team held competitive matches with
other schools; the trackmen are limber-
ing up; the gold team is planning their
spring tournament; Coach Tilson is put-
ting on the finishing touches to spring
football practice; and Captain Woodham,
although suffering from a recent illness,
is urging the players of the “National
Pastime” onward.

You'll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station :

DAVIDSON, N C.

paring for another rush but the Charles-
ton defense stiffened and the game ended
35-20.

When they met the Citadel Bulldogs in
Charleston the Cats were not so lucky
and were left behind with 30 points to
opponents 41. McAuley was the star of
the game, accounting for more than half
of the Davidson points, Wilson played a
stellar game ‘at center. For Citadel,
Douglas, Weeks, and Willard formed a
trio that couldn’t be stopped.

Citadel (41) Position — Davidson (30) though McDonald and Newcome did take |
Douglas (18) ______ RF__-- Anderson (4) some wild flings from the center of the
Weeks: (8) 2260232 VO) SF ea Calhoun (2) floor.

Johnson (13) ~---- C __-----Wilson (6) | Team work, rather than individual
Willard (2) ~.-__- RiGee Simpson (2) (Continued on page 8)
High) sosie ee IGissee cs aes Harrison

Substitutes—Davidson,
Crawford; Citadel, Reeder (2), Epps.

Referee, Eisenmann,

In the next game the Davidson team
played a jam-up game only to lose by a
40 to 36 score. Anderson and Calhoun
were outstanding for the Wildcats, play-
ing in tip-top form all the time but lacked
just enough punch to overtake their op-
ponents,

Going on to Columbia, they met the
strong University team and played to the
small end of a 34-29 score. The Game-
cocks were forced to the limit in order to
get away. with the game with Captain
Anderson of Davidson leading his team
toward victory and fighting their prog-
ress every step of the way.

The Red and Black team fought to the

(Continued on page 8)

McAuley (16), |

was keen all during the match.
goals and a foul proved sufficient to

beat. their opponents. |
The game started with the Charlotte
team scoring seven points before David-

son woke up. Goals by Newcombe and} sie een
: | The results of individual matches were

made it look as though |

McDonald | foll
ini Hoes as follows:
Kesser” Fauls team would have a walkr | “ : eae
188 pound class: Ford of V. P. I. lost to

away. Then Davidson statted, and two | : iis ‘ :

beautiful shots by Harrison made the Capgain Frierson of Davidson; time, five|
skies loom brighter for the Davidson sup- minutes, forty-five seconds.
porters. With the score at 11 to 15 in| 128 pound class. Culpepper of V. P. I.)
the Monograms favor, the red-clad team | won over Flythe of Davidson; time, two |
'took a spurt ahead. A rally by the Mon- | minutes and thirty-four seconds,

,Ograms put them in a 19-16 lead just as} 138 pound class: Andes of V. P. I. won
the half ended, lover Davis of Davidson; time four min- |

Captain Frierson, of Davidson con-
| tinued his string of victorioes which in-|
icludes triumphs over State men and the!

|strong Army wrestlers.

|

The second half was a see-saw affair, utes ten seconds. |
The score was tied at 22, at 26 and at| 148 pound class: Hall of V. P. I. lost to}
28. Then came the extra period with the | Estridge of Davidson; time, two minutes |
Davidson team dashing away for their | and eighteen seconds.

The match was!

158 pound class: Mahaney of V. P. I.
and Crinkley of Davidson wrestled to a
draw.

175 pound class: Fussell of V. P.. I. won
over Garrison of Davidson; time, six min-
utes and fifty-four seconds.

Unlimited class: Captain Mills of V. P.
I. won over Vance of Davidson; time,
three minutes and forty seconds.

DR. NOBLE

(Continued from page 1)

Prior to speaking specifically about
education as a profession, the educator
stated that man’s particular ambition in
general was to achieve success, and that
this, in the ultimate analysis, was merely
being happy in the work which each one
was doing. “Of all human ambition,” he
declared,” an open mind is the noblest,
the rarest, and the most difficult to
achieve, but it is a necessary requisite to
an intelligent choice of,,a vocation.”

Dr. Noble remained at Davidson
through Thursday and had personal in-
terviews with many Davidson students.

EAT AT THE

ASTOR LUNCH

SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N. C.

—

———

victory. |

Prorrrrrst

III rrr

The best the, Monograms could do in |
the extra period was to score a foul,!

| Professional. Notices |

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Introducing to the readers of

MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)

Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

III II III III III III III rr |

ened

zawwamwaad

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST

Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance Com- |
me cial National Bank Building

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to as Evenings 7 to 9.
2to2

Socccccccccccccccceqoccccccccccocccocccces

Sundays ‘ |

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
$11, 812, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building

Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

Everything A good Drug Store
can supply

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

[ Complete lime of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
WHEN IN STATESVILLE and Goldsmith
v Myers Hardware and Sporting Gocds Co.
CALL ON US FOR YOUR CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Commercial

BARBER SHOP WANTS

Statesville, N, C.

THE

Barber Shop

MR. JOHN

COMING!

MARCH 2nd AND 3rd

Representative of

SCHLOSS BROS. & CO.

Baltimore, Md.
-PARKER & LINK

The Finest in

G. FISCHER

4

CAROLINA

One of the PUBLIX Theatres

OPENS TO A

GALA PREMIERE

MONDAY, MARCH 7th
FEATURING

PARAMOUNT PICTURES

AND

B. F. KEITH VAUDEVILLE

NE W

the Carolinas

