4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Associa

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
BOYCE “MARDIN: coccclucscccucccoduccucauuade Editor-in-Chief
MM, Py GRA WORE dussncséccccccncckssgane. Business Manager

AS Ni BROW N¢ iiaatstaseccdccccssccnuecccean Managing Editor |
Wi) Rte RULGH OIL. cise ccmencccccsacceatecs, Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
Cc. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
Bi Ay WEDOOING isn sscidlannnacdencencdssncdune Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE - sate -A iate Editor
Ry CWI RS cuisecdcscccsdeccleccceus pes. Associate Editor
uy iis Wis { J eae A iat tor
1: - GC." WADSWORDE sic. 2. -nccncsnctanencccase Alumni Editor
R. C. DY . ud Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY......_.___.. Assistant Business Manager
8) Ji ATRISON einen con cs cled, Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL... Assistant Business Manager
Pp. hy GRSURIBUIN biesd bedecacosccnacuuac Subscription Manager
By GW IGRCIIN Se db ancesckacnccendcanccs Circulation Manager
S. Wit MORRIS iii ic ssn ubacadaele is Solicitor
W. _B._ McGUIRE.... Solicitor
TS) Ey SMW ALN Sbhdonn usc sccsbsccossians Solicitor
Reporters’ Club
W._H. BAILEY .----President
. L. ELY. Vice-President
. R. GRAHAM c Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI
W._H. iT W. B. nivee
E. T. EDELMAN F, D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER Vv. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON Cc. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
F. W._ JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. G W. R. AVE:
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE PAN-AMERICAN FARCE*”

That a group of intelligent men from va-
rious New World countries should meet to-
gether in an attempt to establish better re-
lations among their respective nations, and
that these men should eliminate from their
discussion the most vital point of cisagree-
ment strikes some people as rather ludic-
rous. But such is the case of the Pan-
American Congress meeting at Havanna this
week. . Evidently the Congress must be con-
sidered by some to be an extremely import-
ant convention, the head of the United
States made a special trip to attend it. Yet
the question of armed forces of the United
States carrying on active warfare in other
countries will not be touched upon.

The delegates from ‘the countries further
south do not seem quite as pleased with the
program as they should be. Press reports
from various countries represented there in-
dicate that these nations do not quite under-
stand why such an important question
should be left untouched and there are many
‘who agree with them.

At present the territory of three Pan-
American countries is occupied by American
forces, the government being temporarily
administered by these troops. The three
countries Otcupied are Haiti, San Domingo,
and Nicaragua. ‘Due to the efforts of the
Associated Press and the majors in the
Marines, the Nicaragua situation has been
bréught before the eye of the American
public more vividly than the other two.

From some points of view it should be given:

more publicity, but of a different nature
from that which it has been receiving.

It is at once evident that such actions as
the United States has been guilty of within
the last few weeks should be frankly and
thoroughly discussed by those who are far
‘more interested than we. This country of
ours has all of the legal excuses and reasons
that can be collected to explain every detail,
but there is still a doubt as to whether any
ethical excuses will be acceptable. It is true
that the United States has been invited by
leaders of both parties in Nicaragua to at-
tempt to find a solution for their problem,
but the question arises as to whether our
country is justified in the least in meddling
with the affairs of any other country. There
will be many to raise and shout that we
must protect our interests. But just what
are these interests and why should they in-
volve one hundred .and eighteen million
people in their petty squabbles?

If American business men have found it
impossible to carry on their respective
trades due to the unstability of government
in Nicatagua, they should withdraw imme-
diately, They investigated the situation
rather thoroughly before they placed any
of their. money in enterprises in that coun-

They’ aes have realized that they

ing a chance on the stability of gov-
people it seems that they
‘ir, and take their de-

feat smilingly. But no, they must squall for
their Uncle Sam.

This is the problem however, that is wor-
rying a number of the countries to be rep-
resented at the Congress. Is everyone to
infer from the actions of our government
during the last week that they will invade
any country where there are American bus-
iness interests in an effort to make secure
their:position there? And this is the ques-
tion which will be evaded at this session.
The officials have forgotten, it seems, that
the world as a whole, 'not only the American
world, is observing their actions and attitude
in this matter. They will question whether
our country is setting a précedent in this
situation, and ask must they naturally ex-
pect American warships and troops in any
country where the government does not
quite suit. the rather peculiar ideas of our
Uncle Sam.

It has also been hinted that the sending of
troops to Nicaragua is not altogether an
altruistic motive on our part. This was re-
vealed when it was insinuated that America
is planning a new canal through Nicaragua.
Sandino and his party being unfavorable to
it, therefore the United States upholds the
opposite party. These insinuations along
with the fact that the protection of business
interests seems to be the primary motive
for the interference rather points out that
this nation is not quite as noble as we think
it to be,

At the great student convention held in
Detroit during the holidays, various foreign
students were complaining that American
interests in their réspective countries were
carrying out the wealth which rightfully be-
longed to the natives of that country. This
was one of.the main criticisms of the United
States a8 a whole. And now that the gov-
ernment has decided that American inter-
ests must be protected by American troops,
it seems obvious that the United States is
headed directly for trouble in many portions
of the world.

All of the above argument is strictly from
the practical, business side of the situation,
not touching on the moral problem as to
whether the United States is justified in its
intereference. Senator Burton K. Wheeler
in an interview appearing in the New York
Times says, “My opposition is based first up-
on what I have always conceived to be one
of the fundamental principles of this coun-
try, namely, that-we have no right to inter-
fere in the internal-affairg-of anhether coun-
try.” And yet already numerous skirmishes
have been engaged in by the Marines oc-
cupying the territory and the bandits. Last
Sunday it was reported in the papers
throughout the country that a number of
the bandits had been killed in an airplane
attack.

And no longer are there merely two ele-
ments in the struggle, if we are supposed to
believe press rcports and a commanding of-
ficer of a Marine detachment. An officer in
charge of one of the groups attacking San-
dino declared that his enemies had been fur-
nished with munitions and guns from help-
ful countries. If this is true, the govern-
ment should realize the position they have
taken, how the world is considering it, and
withdraw from the scene of action imme-
diately. If it is not true, the officer should
be discharged for making such a libelous
statement and arousing such feeling
throughout the country.

With the above in mind, it is readily dis-
cernable that such a situation should be dis-
cussed at length at such a meeting as is be-
ing held in Havana. Our government would
then realize probably the way in which the
various other countries in this part of the
world are interpreting our actions in this
matter, There should be much frank. dis-
cussion. If the United States intends to
protect American interests throughout the
world with American troops, these countries
should be told that and prepare for imme-
diate war. If, however, the United States
has some other explanation for its actions,
it would be well to bring it out immediately.
diately. :

Much good could. be accomplished, many
doubts swept away, much misunderstanding
erased, if a sane discussion of this matter
were held with the various delegates pres-
ent; yet they “choose” to ignore it all.
Whether this is a very subtle move, and
tends to accomplish much good, the future
will reveal. All indications point at pres-
ent, however, to a colossal mistake.

Open Forum

The following communication from Coach
Younger has been received in answer to the
Open Forum article which appeared in this
column last week with reference to the
basketball schedule er season :

“If Mr. ‘Just Why’ will be so kind as to
come to my office,

will consider it a great

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

FILIAL INGRATITUDE

Blow, blow, thou Winter Wind,
Thou art not so unkind

As man’s Ingratitude ;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,

Although thy breath be rude.
—Shakespeare.

I had somehow come to’ imagine that the suffering
of Lear at the hands of his ungrateful daughters had
been exaggerated, that his mistreatment had been am-
plified to increase the poignance of the tragedy. Belle
Bennett, now come a great tragedienne of the silver
screen, did a vivid portrayal of the scenario, “The

Fourth Commandment,” a few months ago, and her |

misery might have torn at my heart-threads had I not
been one of those unknowing individuals who imagine
that such a thing as filial ingratitude of so extreme a
nature is always fiction. I know now my mistake.

It took an incident in nearby High Point to disil-
lusion me. A frail, little wisp of a woman, grown
weary of life, was picked up by High Point Welfare
workers. She was aged and sick—and, though she
smiled with the courage of a soldier, her eyes were
sad and her heart heavy. She was quickly removed to
a charity hospital, but life lasted only a’few days.

There was nothing unusual about the case up to that
point, except that the little woman, to the very hour
of her death, kept trying to smile for the nurses and
doctors who attended her. Death brought on an in-
quiry. There was an effort to locate her kin, but to
no avail. Her body went to the public morgue, and
wrapped in cheap muslin, she was placed in a pine-
wood box and laid to rest, without a marker to show
where she lay. A busy public thought nothing of the
incident. In an.age of commercialism, we have grown
calloused—and death, as long as it stays away from
our own hearthstones, is welcome to take its toll un-
noticed.

But, down in Greenville, S. C., an old acquaintance
read of the funeral, and made a hurried trip to High
Point to ascertain the true identity of the dead. Then
came a story of ingratitude, a story of thanklessness
that left an awakened public wiping tears from its
eyes.

The little lady, now dead, had in her brighter days
lavished tenderness on her children, and had found
time to be a fairy god-mother to the,whole community
in which she lived, Under her watchfulness a son had
grown to manhood, and had succeeded. He had won
the admiration of business associates and had climbed
rapidly the ladder that leads to wealth and prestige.
A chauffeur in livery drove him about in a high-
priced automobile. Fora year, perhaps, he had cared
for his infirm mother, but he grew tired of her and
wanted someone else to take up the “burden.” Sensing
his impatience, the mother, still proud, packed her
meagre clothing and with a few dollars in a tattered
purse made her way to High Point, the home of a
daughter and a grandson.

At’ High Point, the daughter failed to meet her at
the train, and ordered the grandson to refuse her en-
trance to the home. Days of hunger, of fatigue, rolled
by—until the little god-mother was found by welfare
workers, walking the streets as if in a stupor. At the
hospital, she tried to smile, but her smiles were feeble
and pitiful, “Are some of my people coming up to see
me?” she kept asking. Not a soul came. “They’re sa
good to me here,” she sobbed, as she nodded her hea
toward the strangers at the hospital who were giving
her comfort and kindness in her last hours.

I remember having read an old Italian quotation, I
do not know its author, but as I write it comes back
to me. “The animal with long ears, having drunk,
gives a kick to the bucket.” And somehow, in the
midst of all that has been written about the forsaken
little lady, I am convinced that the Italian might have
written that line precisely to describe this son and
daughter, now oblivious to the sacrifice and the love
that an adoring mother had showered on them during
childhood.

“Cases of this sort,” says the High Point Enter-
prise, “have been told in fiction, but here is one that a
newspaper tells in life, and. calls names and faces
throughout.”” It may be a fine public service that the
paper has done. Perhaps it will at least deter others
who might hide behind a screen of anonymity and
perform acts just as cruel toward those that helped
them when they were helpless, but\cannot claim love
and care in return.

f
“How sharper than @ serpent’s tooth it is
To have a thankless child.”
—Shakespeare.

The propeller of a great ship broke through its
side and the ship sank off the coast of South
America, While five ships stood by three hundred
persons lost their lives. ‘Disaster re-occurs as
regularly as the sun rises and sets but no one
knows the time nor the place. Man can control
much but not his destines.

EE _

privilege to discuss with him at length any
information that I may be able to give con-
cerning the basketball schedule.”
W. L. YOUNGER,
Director of Athletics.

Ollapodrida

A man and a woman were put to death in the
electric chair at Sing Sing Prison. The reason:
they had murdered the husband of the woman.
The following morning the greater part of the
American population read a detailed account of
the tragedy avidly. New York was furnished with
the choicest bit of all. Emblazoned upon the
front sheet of the Hearst Mirror was a picture of
the unfortunate woman strapped to the death deal-
ing chair. An enterprising reporter had tied a
camera to his leg and pressed the bulb from his
pocket. The more thoughtful wonder that the
common herd can gloat over such nauseating de-
scriptions but the majority of these themselves
consumed every morsel of the journalistic ban-
quet. There is pathos in this public weakness.

Together wtih the Snyder-Grey execution came
other headline stories of crime. Of ten leading
articles appearing in the Charlotte Observer that
morning, seven dealt with the misdeeds of men.
The Jackson Day dinner and the Democratic Con-
vention, alone were able to compete. Journalists
defend the publication of such details on the
ground that they furnish, an object lesson to the
American public and thus lessen crime. The psy-
chologists would no doubt debate the question.
Certainly a description of crime is suggestive to
others to perform similar deeds. The Hickman
case offers a good example. Since that famous
kidnapping was performed three similar plans have
been attempted. An uneducated Italian in Chica-
go asked for one hundred thousand dollars ransom
on threat of kidnapping his employer’s daughter.
Uninstructed in crime he signed his own name and
wondered that the police could pick him from
three million other souls. The basic reason for
criminal news is that the public demands the de-
tails and journalists have not yet come to the place
where they will suffer pecuniary joss to further
humanity,

The State of Virginia has taken a step toward
the education of the American public .in this di-
rection. Executions are viewed only by the prop-
er authorities and only a simple statement that the
law has been carried out is issued to the press. As
a result we find that the most-notorious criminals
are relegated to short notices at the foot of the
front page. Virginians, after a four year silence,
still seem to be living in health and happiness.

The most recent of Will Durant’s publications
“Transition” deals with that writer’s thoughts,
thinly veiled, since childhood. It has not met with
the overwhelming favor accorded “The Story of
Philosophy,” but it has run through four editions
and to this writer’s untrained eye is more cleverly,
written. In it Durant finds that his life has coin-
cided with a period of changing thought from an
old to a more modern version. Some parts are
rather intimate, others gruesome, but the whole
makes a well rounded picture. In it you will find
the gist of present day thought well defined.

Good Democrats from all sections of the coun-
try assembled in Washington last week for the
Jackson Day dinner. To shorten the exercises
some speeches were served before the cocktails.
The first orator swung into action at eight o’clock
and the last resumed his seat seven hours later.
Half of the twelve hundred diners had departed
before this juncture was reached. Every possible
Democratic presidential aspirant was present save
one, Governor Alfred Smith, of New York, and in
his comparative obscurity he outshone all ‘others.
A letter alone presented his cause to the assem-
bled party leaders “and after the final speech had
been made there was little doubt that Smith would
be the Democratic choice barring upsets. Prot-
estants and drys will oppose him in some measure
as will the Exalted Angora of the Order of Billy
Goats. Democratic leaders believe that their voices
will be feeble.

Texas, a member of the Solid South, has shown
a Republican tendency recently, and to impede
the movement the Democrats will take their party
convention to Houston next June. The theory is
that the state will be enthused with a Democratic
spirit. Other cities with better financial backing
were forced to wait four more years while the
South is being restored to its state of solidity. If
Smith is nominated the party strength will receive
a jolt at the hands of some Southern states. The
South does not approve of wets and Catholics in
large measure. Some Democrats will vote for the
Republican choice. Others will not vote at all.

A senate committee is spend a lot of valuable
time trying to place the blame for the S-4 disaster.
It might better earn its salary in preparing for
similar dsasters in the future. Hardly a year
passes in which some United States submarine does
not sink to rise no more together with its crew.
No good shipping company would long allow such
a condition to exist among its vessels but the gov-
ernment pays no heed to repeated disasters. Wait
until some government officials son is lost in such
a catastrophe and then watch for results.

: ; W. L. L.
