4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

The Davidio nian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

b

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
' the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor hy 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles .re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

A. N. BROWN ...... -Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT -Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY .-. -Managing Editor
Gy. RISA KR iwseccncsccccnccscsnedasauconcansect Athletic Editor
RB. A. WITSON...-. a. -----+------+,-Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE __.--.-0.....--..-------------Associate Editor
Fo: CWDS: veudsseecescnts ---Associate Editor
Ti TS JON MS i bibs se 46s naddwsausen ---Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH. .......-..-..2- ce ccccsoscn: Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY ....-.-....-..-----------------Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY....----_--- Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON........ ---Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL...----- _.-Assistant Business Manager
Pie GARR USO Nabcocscsssncnsascauass Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON. Circulation Manager |
S. W. MORRIS -Solicitor
W. _B. McGUIR -Solicitor
E. H. McCALL... -Solicitor

W._H. BAILEY.-.........22. 2 2cc-n 200 ~~ nena ses cnee- President
. L, ELY..-- es Vice-President
f Ri GRAHAM sss (cole s sooo. ae ce Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI
W._H. BEST W._B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN F. D. LLE
E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON c. M. PRA
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON
AN EXPLANATION
From the opinions expressed in’ the

columns of several collegiate journals in and
around the state, it seems that representa-
tives of these various schools have an erron-

cous idea as to the reasons why fraternities
here at Davidson are to move back on the
campus next year Some columnists have
expressed the opinion that it was a discipli-
nary move and rejoiced that their beloved
institutions wére so far above such “prep-
school” ideas. It would be well to clear the
situation up a bit by giving the real reasons
why the fraternities will be grouped to-
gether next year with no men living in fra-
ternity houses.

In a small school such as Davidson it is
essential that the student body by welded
together as a single unit, With only six-
hundred and fifty men, there is no room for
any schisms in the student body. It was dis-
covered that two or three years with the
fraternities off the campus, that‘there were
two distinct groups developing here. In the
fraternities it was noticeable particularly,
the chapters were no longer bound together
as a single unit but were divided into those
who lived on the campus and those who lived
in the houses.

It was evident that this situation should
be corrected since the very essence. of the
spirit of the school seemed to be gradually
dwindling away. There was.no longer the
whole-hearted co-operation in the student
body which had been noticeable prior to the
time the fraternities moved away from the
campus. Even though some object to the
abstract term “school spirit,” it must be said
that the spirit of the institution was not the
same as it had been in former years.

With the above criticisms before them,
the Board of Trustees decided to move the
fraternities back to the campus. There was
no mention of anything relating to any
reprimand of the various chapters concerned,
No action of any of the fraternities had been
such as to warrant any measure of this type.
It was with the interests of the students and
the college as well that the Trustees believed
it best to move the fraternities to the cam-
pus. Naturally there has been some crit-
icism of their action. There are some who
believe that the fraternities and the insti-
tution will accomplish more if the chapters
had been left off the campus. There are
equally as many ‘supporters of the opposite
side of the cause,

|The proposed plans for a fraternity court
of chapter halls is a novel idea. Whether
this.will prove better than any other ar-
rangement remains to be seen. It is' certain
that this seems to he the only solution for
the peculiar problem which exists here.

me POLITICS zie
There exists here at Davidson a situation
differing slightly from the majority of in-

_ Stitutions over the country. This is the

_ political situation. “At preset

it there are no

political parties or any open politics what-
soever, but there has been some beneath the
surface. For the past few years this seems
to have been growing, No candidate is al-
lowed to stand before a group of students,
state his platform and explain why they
should vote for him. There is no definite
rule or law against it, but the man who did.
it would find his votes indeed scarce when
the ballots had been counted. However,
the friends of this man talk as much as
they please, drum up votes if possible, and
in general explain why their candidate is the
best one in the field. We are indeed thank-
ful that there is not much of this here, but
it seems to be increasing.

The whole situation, however, is a little
comprotnising. A definite step towards the
adoption of either the completely open poli-
tics or the completely closed type should be
taken. At Emory, at Florida, and at a num-
ber of other institutions in the south there
are two and sometimes three parties who
have candidates on every ticket. Regular
conventions are held, campaign speeches
made, etc. This would not be feasible at
Davidson. With a small student body, there
is no room for any division. Tt is doubtful
whether this type of politics is hest in col-
leges, Certainly.it would not be the solution
to the problem here

It seems therefore, that there should be a
tradition created here that no man would
talk to another concerning the respective
merits of a candidate for any office. This
is the type of politics used at the University
of Richmond. The students do not talk
among themselves about the elections, this
heing one of the traditions of the institution.
This would certainly be better than the plan
used here.

Unless the political campaigns are wide
open or completely closed, there is an ele-
ment of uneasiness throughout the entire
student body. One rather hates to hear a
man touted for a certain position, for one
thinks of his opponent, who probably doesn’t
know that friends of this man are working
for him.

With the student-body election heginnin*
within the next two weeks, it would be well
to think “over this matter and attempt to
promote a different system here. The usual
hally-hoo of election time is to admonish the
voters to select the right man. This is fool-
ish unless the voter is allowed to decide un-
disturbed the man he seriously believes to be
the best candidate. In the closed system of
politics, the man decides alone, without con-
sultation with anyone else. It seems there-
fore that this system is certainly the best.

The only trouble with the closed system is
that of firmly rooting it in the mind of every
student here that he will under no circum-
stances talk to anyone else about any can-
didate, But this obviously cannot be ac-
complished without the whole-hearted co-
operation of the entire student body. If this
could be done, Davidson would create a tra-
dition that should prove in future years to
be one of the most valuable that it possesses.

It, was late on a December evening. The sun
dropped behind a. bank of clouds. A freshman
noticed all that. In fact he had noticed every-
thing about the outside world for the better part
of an hour as he sat dejectedly before his table.¢
Before that he had observed the interior of the
room minutely; the white walls, the skew pen-
nant, a memory book lying dust covered in the
corner. But now he looked out of the window
as dusk settled,-for students were passing below,
directing their steps toward the post office and
supper. Some were freshmen themselves and
oddly many wore coats and Sunday suits, uncus-
tomary to say the least. A rollicking, self-sufficient
air seemed to enclose the be-coated ones. The
solitary gazer strained his eyes and observed more
closely. Yes, there was something on the lapel of
each passing freshman coat. A white star gazed
up at its heavenly prototypes from one, a blue dia-
mond shone forth from another, a bronze triangle
from still another. The six o'clock bell banged
near the window and the lone onlooker rose, slip-
ped on his sweater and started down the stairs.
Designers he observed are to be commended for
omitting lapel button-holes from sweaters.

“T hear that you get your haircuts at a berber
co'lege.”

“You bet, college men should patronize college
men.”—Notre Dame Juggler.

“IT would like to marry your daughter.”

“But, my boy, she has a good home.” ‘

“Oh, T'll let her keep that.”—Arizona Kittykat.

Henry says that he spends all his: spare time
reading books, of which he has a complete set—

‘Yale Record:

One of the biggest questions to be decided by

“every department store is how often to hold its

annual. sale.—Scream.

Collegiate Comment

At the University of Akron, the Student Coun-
cil has passed recently a disenfranchisement rule
concerning freshman regulations. The freshmen
are not allowed to vote or hold main offices if they
are found guilty of not wearing their caps and
arm bands or parking their cars on the campus.

The seniors at Furman University, Greenville, S.
C., will wear derbies this year as their mark of
distinction. They have decided not to carry canes.

‘At the University of Maryland next year there
will be no captain of the football team until after
the schedule is completed. The coach will appoint
a man as temporary captain before each game and
at the end of the season, the varsity squad will
elect the captain purely as an honor. This action
was taken because of the influence of fraternity
politics.

According to an ancient record found in the
library of William and Mary College, the institu-
tion was founded, first, to eduéate the young per-
sons in view of learning and good morals; second-
ly, to supply the church; especially of Virginia,
with good ministers; and thirdly, to instruct the
Indians in the Christian religion.

Twenty-seven men have signed up for the
checker tournament at the University of Alabama.
Last fall a horseshoe tournament was conducted
there. It seems also that we have heard that
they had a good football team there once upon a
time.

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College met Wash-
ington and Lee in a debate on the subject of the
failure of co-education. The Sun-Dial says the
debate was “largely in the lighter vein.”

Plans are under way for the annual “razz” sheet
at Lafayette College.
the loca! chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, national
journalistic fraternity, and endeavors to strike at
some of the petty foibles of the campus.

At the University of Texas there is a tradition to
which all of the students adhere. Before the
classroom for final examinations, a few minutes
organized cheering is indulged in. The ‘theory: is
that the cheering will pep the men up and also
that they will be in no condition to do any cheer-
ing after the ordeal.

Would-be athletes at Agnes Scott are in the
midst of an _ exciting water-polo tournament.
Teams from the various classes are represented.

“Hell-Week,” a traditional period: of torture for
fraternity freshmen at the University of Kansas,
has been abolished. One of the main reasons for
such action was the arrest of some thirty men
who were indulging in pre-initiation ceremonies in
the streets of the town. The students then decided

‘to-abolish the custom.

The Student Council at Lafayette College has
delivered a telling blow to extravagance in col-
lege functions by a bill recently passed in one of
its sessions, This bill prohibited a charge of more
than five dollars for each couple to anv dances
sponsored by any organizations of the college.

A new club room and social center for the men
at Guilford College was..dedicated last week. The
room was provided for the purpose of offering
adequate social activities for the students at Guil-
ford.

Beta Beta Beta, national biological fraternity,
has recently installed a chapter at Gettysburg Col-
lege. Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary
fraternity, will install a circle there also some time
within the next month.

Haverford College is the only institution in the
country which still supports cricket as an organ-
ized sport.

The Kentucky Intercollegiate Press Association
held its second annual convention last week at
the University of Kentucky. Nine institutions of
that state were represented.

Ten men were graduated from the Mississippi A.
& M. College at midsemester. Eight of these men
graduated in agriculture, one from the engineer-
ing school, and one from the science school.

The Emory Glee Club has a contract for a two
weeks’ engagement at the Coliseum theater of
London during the coming summer, A Kelley, ex-
*30, is now a member of this organization.

Two fraternities at the University of Florida,
Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta, have signed a
contract to meet each other in a football contest
once a year for the next 99 years. a

Some time within the next year three hundred
students from Princeton University will go to
Argentina for three months’ study. It is expected

that a like number of South American students |

will visit this country.

The paper is sponsored by |

_ Objective was life, action and adventure.

Out of Bounds

It’s tiresome to be a columnist, even for a week-
ly college paper. In the first place’ there’s nothing
to write about and in the second it is scarcely read
even if it is narrated. To ape a nationally known
writer of the same avocation certainly offers the
best outlet; but whom to ape? Should we follow
the stvle of “the world’s highest paid writer,” we
face the certainty of having our opinions rendered
invalid. If we indulge in a mimic cry of McIntyre,
there is the evident possibility of rousing person-
al ire because of ludicrous comment. And then if
we fol'ow the style of a host of others there is a
more than even chance that our readers will not
recognize the parody. Really we would rather
turn this into a news column, but there again we
are stumped, for nothing ever happens at David-
son, The front page columns of this issue will
testify to that. Day after day the same o'd grind
issues forth with machine-like precision. Nothing
ever happens at Davidson.

The two students faced each other, one a senior
with stern expression, the other a freshman of four
weeks standing with downcast eye. Two test pa-
pers lay in the hands of the former—math papers
scribbled with permutatoins, combinations, quad-
ratics and cubes.

“They are identical,” said the senior, “and, as |
have said, there is ample proof that the other boy
is not guilty. Are you?”

Silence, broken only by a shout directed to-
ward a neighboring dormitory from window be-
low. And then there was a tear. There’s always
a tear in such situations,but this one splashed on
the band of the accusing senior as the bewildered
underclassman slumped down on the edge of the
bed. The senior had rehearsed exactly what to do
when this happened. He knew it would happen, not
from hearsay, but from personal experience. In
fact he had played the opposite role back in prep
school. Maxims of honor and Davidson integrity
rushed thrgugh his brain, but then he looked at
the damp Spot on the back of his hand and some-
how he couldn’t go on with it. Rather he too sat

| down on the edge of the bed and put his arm

around the freshman’s shoulder. What he said
doesn’t matter. Only this, that their hands met
and a moment later the senior was walking down
dormitory row Whistling,

Sophomores are goats, not in a literal sense of
course, but figuratively speaking the axiom is in-
evitable. For it is a certainty that no upperclass-
man respects either a sophomore’s. opinions or
actions and it is equally true that freshmen do not
reverence them, as the court of control will testify.
The truth of the assertion came clearly to one
sophomore as he listened to the March winds
whistle about the corners of the dormitory during
a rather bleak forenoon. Moreover, he faced an
excrutiating physics laboratory within the hour.
Save for the physics ordeal perhaps this story
would never have been told, but the ordeal re-
mained nevertheless. Long and thoughtfully the
sophomore pondered upon his inferior position and
afterwards the uselessness of college in general.
What he wanted was life, action, adventure. In his
pocket rested nine dollars and a quarter, the re-
mainder of a month’s allowance. Also the physics
imprisonment burdened his mind. Of course it
wasn’t logical, but nevertheless the student in
question pulled a dust laden traveling bag from
under his bed, stuffed it with essential clothing,
mashed the remainder into his trunk and forthwith
sallied.out to the main highway. In fact his
Mid-
afternoon found him sitting on a bridge rail twenty
miles from the college hailing each passing motor-
ist. A definite destination he knew not, only what
the Fates might bring him. The Fates were quick
to act. The reverie was broken by the familiar
voice of the physics professor asking if he wished
a ride to Davidson. Agitated not a little the wan-
derer climbed into the front seat of the car, told
in glowing terms of a fictitious two days trip to a
neighboring town. Miles passed. The tank loomed
in the distance.

No nothing ever happens at Davidson.  Noth-
ing! 2

Roamin’—“Glad to meet you.
myself.”—Penn. State Froth.

Roman—“My name is Artos. I am the famous
bronze caster.”

I put the shot

“IT hear Spence’s wife has left him for the third
time in a year.”

“Very likely—I suppose you know she was for-
merly a cook.”—Ohio State Sun Dial.

“When I hear a woman sing, I clap my hands.”
“So do I—over my ears.”—Reserve Red Cat.

“Gus is a good kid, isn’t he?”
“Yes, if he had some brains he’d be a smart boy,
if he knew how to use them.”

Yonkers—“Smoking in public! Why, I would
sooner become intoxicated.” __

Beautiful and Damned—“Who wouldn't?” —
Chaperon, , ;
