4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

The Davidvoujah

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press

Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
Entered at the Pos Oise of f evide |

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be ih the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. lay. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

Uibhcdsdasebscussbauakeus tues Editor-in-Chief
avadshous Suondentenbones Business Manager

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF

A. N. BROWN ......-.--- Rap nscuccieassesics Managing Fditor

W. K. PRITCHETT -_..-.2. --Managing Editor

J, B. MORTARITY .... --Managing Editor

GR GUARIY sabessce: ----Athletic Editor

R. A. WIT SON__. .-Feature Editor

W. L. LINGLE - Associate Editor

F. C. WITHERS o. --Associate Editor

D. Tit TONS sed. cindeon --Associate Editor

G, “CoO WADSWORTH > (8.2 35 Lease Alumni Editor

Ri Cf GRADYa waccai ces isi sce aaostocasebeae Exchange Editor

® BUSINESS STAFF

R! S. ABERNETHY......__..- Assistant Business Manager

S. J. ALLISON..... --Assistant Business Manager

W. M. POWFLI -Assistant Business Manager

Pi: Veh GAIRIRIOUING: oecucu bac ce EES Subscription Manager

RB. W. DICKSON... ----Circulation Manager

S. W) MORRIS... --------------Solicitor

W. _B._ McGUIRE. ---Solicitor

Bocuhanie MGA Na iste cen cusay oil uusultcaveecesababcbauen Solicitor

Reporters’ Club ‘4

.--President

Pe s Sapaabieten We Us ueo aus sey us toueasobese Vice-President

{ RiGIGUAIIA Matccccocc cca cndscusatonees Secretary-Treasurer

D. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI

W._H. ST W. R McOUEEN

E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER

E. 8S. HEEFNER V. A. LTON

M. K. HENDERSON c. M.

R. F. JARRA D. T. S FS.

F. W. TOHNSTON A fe CREE TON

Z. V. LONG Mm : tAVE

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

A LITTLE ABOUT EXAMS

If there be any person so different and
peculiar that he reads this column thorough-
ly every week he will probably arise after
reading this editorial and protest the num-
ber of sermons which emanate from this
trusty typewriter. Believing, however, that
there be none of the characters described
existing, and believing that if they do exist
they are probably human and have missed
one or two issues, we will attempt to give
forth some more of our valuable advice to
the members of the student body.

From the heading.on the article. one can
easily ascertain the fact that it concerns
those mental contortions and convulsions in
which the entire body will indulge some few
days hence, In other words, examinations
and all subsidiary elements of this awful
term will be among those present on the
campus next week. To a few of the more
optimistic seniors, the days appear now to
be enrobed in a hazy mist of prospective
pleasures, but to the unfortunate majority
of the campus nothing but misery and tor-
ture can be seen.

To the freshmen, however, this scene ap-
pears slightly distorted. From various
sources, he has been informed of different
aspects of the situation. If his information
was gleaned from Davidson students or
from former members of the student body,
he will find upon comparison that they all
agree on one point. And that is that no Da-
avidson gentleman ever stoops to cheat on
an examination. This has probably been
drilled into some from the time they arrived
here, but it is always possible that some few
are not thoroughly aware of the feeling here
on this subject. The idea is not that a Da-
vidson man must not do this and must do
that, but rather that certain things are just
not “done” here, The first among this list
is cheating. It would be trite to Say agatn
what the honor of a Davidson man means to
him, this is instilled in the hearts of every
true son of Davidson. One of the prime
requisites of this condition is that he be free
from any taint of cheating. ,

Some freshmen will find the attitude here
a little different from that in vogue at their
respective high schools or prep schools. But
this should be forgotten now that he is a
student here and the single standard which
‘governs all Davidson men should be remem-
bered, The re-reading of the section of the
constitntion of the student body which gov-
erns this point would be well worth the
while of every man here. There are many
who know it almost by heart, but there are
some possibly who fail to appreciate prop-
Bi the true significance of this passage.

It should be understood that this article is
not directed to the freshmen alone, since

succumbed to temptations after being here
“for a year or $0, The appeal is to the fresh-
en in n, he r, since this is their

‘there have been upperclassmen who have

_and

A little pride in the efficiency of this sys-
tem also enters in the discussion. The Uni-
versity of Washington recently voted to
abolish the honor system due to its failure
among the sttidents. We are not, boasting
when we say that it has been a success dur-
ing the entire period it has been in force
here at Davidson and true Davidson men are
justly proud of the fact. At Birmingham
Southern College recently appeared an ar-
ticle in the weekly paper relative to the
cheating there at the institution... The
writer made the statement that he knew of
fifty cases of cheating at the college and in-
sisted that the honor system was a farce.
He was promptly expelled from the institu-
tion when he failed to: maké his charges
definite. It should be remefftbered that a
case such as this is considered as seriously
here as the actual cheating itself. The hon-
or section of the constitution states that a
man is on his honor to report any violations
of the section, and by this is meant that he
should do all within his power to see that
other students uphold the honor of the
school as well as he.

To many the above statements seem old
hackneyed, but if they have heen
thoroughly imbued with the real meaning
of the system their criticism is justifiable.
And it is not toward them that the article is
directed, but rather to their weaker brethren
who are wavering a bit It is hoped that
this message. will reach them and the stu-
dent body will rejoice in passing through
this trying period with the escutcheon un-
sullied., :

THE VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE
INSTITUTE

Announcement is made in another column
of this paper of the plans for the Vocational
Guidance Institute for this year. For those
who do not know of the function of this
project or for those who were not interested
enough to attend it last year, a few words

of summary might well be propounded

The Vocational Guidance Institute was
begunast year under the direction of the
Y.M.C. A. cabinet in a’‘effort to interest un-
dergraduates in their lifework before they
were graduated from this institution. “Six
different speakers were obtained, five of
these speaking on specialized topics relative
to their. respective professions and the sixth
spoke on the general theme of. “Business.”
It might be well to remind the underclass-

amen that these talks were not prepared for
‘the seniors alone, but rather more specifical-

ly for men who were not yet seniors, in or-
der that their plans might take some definite
shape before the final year at college.

In these talks each man outlined the pur-
poses of his profession, what we should put
into it and what he in return should expect
from it. To hear an eminent man speak on
his chosen profession is a privilege which
most of the students do not seem to anpreci-
ate properly. Whether or not a student is
planning to enter this certain profession, or
whether he has chosen a profession which
is not included in the schedule of lectures,
he should attend some of them; it is a cer-
tainty that his time will not be wasted.

A great majority of the student hody have
not yet decided definitely their plan of action
when they finish here. There are a few
seniors who have not come to any conclu-
sion as to what course in life they will pur-
sue during the coming year. If any under-
classman is in doubt as to whether or not he
should attend these lectures, he should talk
the matter over with one of these seniors
and find out how much he wishes that he

Open Forum

We Would Like to Know

This is merely a letter of inquiry. Some of the
Davidson alumni in this section are very much
disgusted at the Davidson basketball schedule.
Before criticising we would be willing to give the
authorities a chance to justify the schedule, In
order that they might have something definite to
answer suppose they consider the following ques-
tions: a

Why are the other “big five” teams able to ar-
range games with Carolina and State whereas
Davidson did not?

Why is Davidson playing four games with
“little five’ teams and three with “big five”?

Why does Davidson confine its out-of-state
games with South Carolina fives, good teams
though they may be?

Why is it that the scrapping Davidson football
elevens are willing to face a terrific schedule each
season, while our basketball teams have a chance
to play only four schools of any rating—Duke,

Wake Forest, Furman and Clemson?

What will Davidson have won in case the Wild-
cat five were victors in every game on the 1928
schedule? ote

Who arranged that schedule, anyway?

. JUST WHY?

bree Nie Weng Sete) sl) 7h ss «

|

& THE LITERARY SOCIETIES

The two organizations which were formerly the
‘most powerful and efficient on the Davidson cam-
pus are rapidly waning in strength and interest.
A decade or two ago the two literary societies were
the most powerful factors in the student's life at
Davidson. These societies served not only for a
display room for forensic abilities. but were also a
vital part in the social life of the student. :

One can readily understand why the societies have
lost their leadership in social activities, due to the
various changes this century has brought and due
to the influx of several new social fraternities
within the last ten or fifteen years. But one can
not understand why these’ societies should be al-
most completely deserted by those most inter-
ested, in. forensic activities. y

At present there seems to be very little relation
between the Forensic Council and the societies, al-
though nominally the council is controlled by them.
There is no restriction on candidates for the va-
rious debating teams, they are merely asked to
come out. It is readily seen that some efficient co-
operation should be effected between these two
forces, which should be directed as one.

In one literary society last year, the two main
debaters were very rarely present. Both were
seniors and cou!d have done much in aiding the un-
derclassmen in shaping their forensic Sareers for
their remaining years at Davidson. These seniors,
however, chose to refrain from attending meetings.
The direction of the society was left in the hands
of three or four other seniors who had nobly stay-
ed with the cause for their four years, It is sit-
vations such as this that tend to eliminate the
little interest remaining in the societies.

The freshmen and sophomores are usual'y very
active and interested in the working of the soci-
ety. In the junior year-the number decreases, and
by the last year there are usually five or maybe six
seniors in the society. One freshman was com-
plaining the other day about the situation of the
societies here. An alumnus of the class of ’o5 or
96 had been instrumental in his choosing David-
son and this alumnus had described the advantages
and wonders of thevliterary societies as they had
been in his day. The freshman was greatly dis-
appointed when he arrived here and learned their
true condition. :

It would be useless to advocate a return to the
days when‘everyone in college was a member of
one of the two societies, and the true motive and
purpose of the society would be ruined if attend-
ance was compulsory. It is obvious, however, that
the forensic activities of the students in inter-
col'eriate debating and the like should be definite-
ly tied up with literary societies. If the men who
are on the debating squad could be urged to attend
every meeting, cou'd be asked to help the new men
of the societies, and in every way improve the
Present condition of the organizations much good
conld be accomplished,

Thegpresent situation points to a change of
some kind. Either the societies must be revived,
or else they must die a natural death. It is cer-
tain that they cannot continue as they have for the
past two or three years. The first indication of
this change was when the two new societies which
had been formed during the past ten years were
taken back into the fold of the parent societies,

Either the varsity debaters feel that they can
derive no more benefit from the societies, or else
they are too lazy to contribute anything to the im-
provement of these organizations. If the first is
true, the societies shou'd be abolished in favor of
some other system of training men for the debat-
ing contests. If the latter is true, a new rule
should be adopted that no man shall be eligible for
participation in any of the inter-collegiate debates
unless he is a member of one of the societies.

Rather an ironic note was sounded in one of the
leading dailies in an edition during the holidays
there appeared a story on the peace and calm of
the world as the new year arrived. On one side
of this story was a report of the fact that 2,000
had been filled in. Canton by the communists,
flanking the central article on the other side was
a story of the operations relative to the raising of
the S-4.

We merely wonder if there is any jealousy on
the part of Leopold and Loeb for the activities of
their rival, Hickman?
= =s—sa_—_—_—
had made some definite decision earlier in
his college career.

Particularly are these lectures meant for
freshmen and sophomores. To these men
who have not as yet decided their major
course which they plan to pursue here, and
who. now are planning to major in just any-
thing that may strike their fancy, these
lectures should afford much thought. Every
man who lectures will declare that it is best
to formulate some general plan as to a life’s
work before a man travels too far in college
to retrace some of his steps.

To the juniors and seniors also these lec-
tures will be valuable. The ones who have
not chosen their work, there will be much
thought-provoking material brought out.
To those who have decided what they will
do new fields of thought and new vistas will
be opened. It will be only natural then, to
expect a large number of students at each of
these discussions.

. degrees.

Ollapodrida

Examnations ‘approach, the horizon darkens and
students shiver at the prospect. They alleviate
the frigid reaction Harvard authosities have adopt-
ed a new method of preparation for the ordeal.
During the month of January no classes will be
held. » Studenis will be given a selected list of
books to be read for reference work and the re-
mainder of their time will be their own to devote
We ‘predict that the plan. will

to review work.

* not meet with success in the college proper but

that the graduate students will be benefitted by it.
Undergraduate students have not yet reached the
point of self-discipline at which they can set
themselves to the exacting task of reference work
at will. Graduate students are rapidly reaching
that point.

The heat of the human body ranges around 98.5
In this semi-tropic climate cancer cells
thrive and it. At 111.5 degrees those same
cells collapse. Problem: to bring the body to this
heat for a period of thirty minutes without re-
sultant death. Dr. George Walker, of Johns Hop-
kins University has produced the desired result in
certain of the six thousand experimental mice over
which he reigns. Now he seeks a human subject
but promises slight hope of survival at the present
stage of experimentation . Needless to say there
have been no volunteers. The human body is
delicately adjusted and a variation of less than ten
degrees is always fatal, There is little chance the
present method will become a successful cure but
each new experiment adds additional information
to our store of knowledge and will lead some day
to a certain cure.

New York educational circles are playing the
bull side of the market. An ambitious superin-
tendent of schools has forced the passage of a
new salary bill. Under its terms he. procures
$2-,000 per annum for himself, School principals
receive $7,000 a year and the lowliest of instructors
will start at $1,300 with a maximum outlook of
$3,000 in fourteen years’ service. More elite col-
lege instructors and professors howled as salaries
went up. Many of them do not receive as much
for their more expert services. It seems that the
poorly salaried school teacher is soon to become a
myth.

Farm relief, that thorn in the side of all politi-
cians for the past ten years has once more thrust
in its browsy head during the past week as Pres-
ident Coolidge interviewed the biggest of them all.
Farmer Campbell, tsar of soil tillers, reigns over
100,000 acres of Montana soil. Each year he cul-
tivates half of this surface and feeds the world
500,000 bushels of wheat. J. P. Morgan once back-
ed him with two million dollars. Now he heads his
own farm corporation. However, Farmer Camp-
bell offered no new solution to the much muted
question. Farmer Campbell holds the solution
himself. Some day, not many years hence, al]
farmers will be allied to giant corporations, mar-
keting their goods through a single agency and
controlling prices. Therein lies relief and in his
own corporation Farmer Campbell has set a pre-
cedent.

Last year, well-fed and in a benevolent spirit,
the members of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation
offered prizes totaling $25,000 for the best essays
upon the subject “What Woodrow Wilson Means
to Me.” Ten thousand aspirants endeavored to
make him mean $10,000 (first prize). Last week
the winners were announced but with little pecu-
niary adjustment. Of the ten thousand the com-
mittee had found no essay worthy of the first or
second prize and only forty-four even worthy of
consideraiton. The Foundation failed in offering
a subject with such sentimental possibilities.

Mexico received a call from Lindbergh and
evinced an interest in airplaines. Straightway
the government sought to procure one for the
rapid transportation of ifs officials, One airplaine
does not make an army but the United States, con- “
trolling the purchase through an embargo, con-
sidered and finally granted the request. Powerful
as we are we fear the air supremacy of our back-
ward neighbor. The United States refuses to de-
velop this most important side of its defense and
then makes its neighbors even more backward by
its embargo. Mexico has no alternative but had
the tables been reversed such an embargo might
easily have resulted in war. Such are the ways of
nations. g

President Coolidge predicted a year of great
Prosperity, in direct contradiction to the general
business trend, and stocks on the New York mar-
ket jumped from one to five points. An intimate
friend might easily have anticipated the prediction
and its expected result to capitalize on it. We hope
that. the President keeps them secret until the
moment they are made. :

W. LLL.

About time for another book
bergh since his “We”
daily papers now.

And another “merely wonder’—im anyone ever
reads these darn things anyway?

a

about or by Lind-
has been relegated to the
