THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

BOB KELL ELECTED

(Continued from page 1)
from the rising Sophomore class for the
office of secretary and treasurer of the stu-
dent body. They were “Hub” Covington.
Pete Glidewell, and Dean Rusk. Glidewell
was dropped on the first ballot and on the
second ballot between Covington and Rusk,

. '
Covington was elected secretary and treas- |

urer of the student body. There were no
nominations from the floor in any of the
elections. A week ago Tuesday morning the
Student Council nominations were announc-
ed, and with no additions the ballots were
presented to the student body on Wednes-
day, Pritchett being the only man elected
that morning, and on Thursday morning the
remainder of the officers, were elected. All
of the elections were close except that for
the election of first vice-president.

Bob Kell is from Pascagoula, Mississippi.
His first triumph came when he was elected
president of the Sophomore class, then in
his Junior year. he was elected to the Student
Council, where he had held a place as presi-
dent of the Soph class, and now his election
to the presidency of the student body gives
him a seat on that honorable council for the
third straight year. Kell made his “D” in
track last year and is a vice-president of the
Athletic Association. Besides track Kell is
also out for football and has gotten into
nearly all of the games this past year. He
is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, a varsity
debater, and a member of the Delta Theta
Chi social fraternity.

Carl Pritchett is captain-elect of the bas-
ketball team and is a resident of Reidsville,
North Carolina. He is president of the
Sophomore class, also a member of Alpha
Phi Epsilon, and a varsity debater. Tom
Brohard is vice-president of the present
Sophomore class, and a member of the “D”
club, having made his varsity letter in wrest-
ling this season; he is a member of the Phi
Gamma Delta national social fraternity, and
comes from Grafton, West Virginia. Cov-
ington is vice-president of the Fresh class,

comes from Red Springs, North Carolina, |

and while here has made his “DC” in two
sports, football and wrestling.

' =— :
SECRET OF SUCCESS

(Continued from page 1)
office the sunremunerative jobs and _ these
serve as.a splendid chance for the young
lawyer to become acquainted with his pro-
fession and his possible future clients, who
may later have very remunerative jobs to
offer.”

“What is your chance to leave a mark on
the world by leaving it better, when you
leave than before you began?” Mr. Williams
asked, “Work lies up against every problem
‘that faces humanity and the lawyer can bet-
,ter the world a little, as he goes along, be-
| eatse his work is to solve the problems that
face humanity.”

He pointed out the fact that almost all of
the political leaders of the nation are law-
years, due to the fact that a lawyer is quali-
fied to handle social and legislative problems,
because in his profession he has to cope
with these same problems.

“Be careful to dedicate your life-to some-
thing you consider worthy,” he pleaded.
“The lawyers of this country have dedicated
their lives to truth and justice. The profes-
sion of law in this country presents one of
the greatest opportunities to invest a life.”

In showing that the life of a lawyer must

that many people who have been prosperous
have been unhappy, while others who have
been unprosperous have been happy simply
because they took advantage of their oppor-
tunities. “Law lays before the lawyer many
opportunities, more opportunities than any-
thing else in the country; but in order to
be happy the lawyer must take advantage of
all these opportunities.”

Mr. Williams remarked that it often de-
velops that a person, who has only average
mentality and equipment, outstrips the bril-
liant ones by industry and hard work.

The noted attorney is an alumnus of Da-
;vidson and first man in the class of ’05.
While he was at Davidson he displayed great
talent as a speaker, taking many forensic
medals and honors. Besides being the chief
attorney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company, Mr. Williams is also one of the
| vice-presidents of the same company.

na
TUESDAY,

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY, MARCH 26
Dressed to Kill. Mary Astor and Edmund Lowe

Blue Danube with Leatrice Joy

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28_,
The Play Girl with Madge Bellamy
THURSDAY,
Legion of the Condemned

FRIDAY, MARCH 30

Two Arabian Knights
SATURDAY,
Wyoming, with Tim McCoy

MARCH 27

MARCH 29

MARCH 31

OMROMTOREOT

AN JAN ETE

Officers
J. M. McConnell, Pres.
H. B. Elliott, V.-Pres.
C. H. Hamilton, Sec.-Tr.
A. Currie, Attorney

CASAC ye

UE

OMUMURUMU MUA

Incorporated 1907

—

Shares in force Dec. 31, 1953. Number of patrons,

ANNUAL STATEMENT

Davidson B. & L. Association

For 1927

Authorized Capital, $1,000,000
Earnings for the year .06%.

5 white 108, colored 9. in 335 weeks,

. Income , Assets

| Interest collected -______ $ 4,790.10

Fees collected -__._______ 212.05 HOI ses i ee oe $ 4,117.84
: $ 5,002.15 Mortgage LOans 25. : cages wake kee 77,135.00
tock oans:2 ook Se ee 4,009.00
5 Expenses ; Pixtiiress ese sees ras Series aie 29.00
Interest paid _-.-___- wan$ 39.50 : BOAT SOME:
Be alaty ose 490.00 Ge $ 85,290.84
% Advertising and penne 37.25 Liabilities ;
anne  [ 107.31 Installment Stock ~-.--------------- $ 53,784.00
Dan Pee hk oe as 66.00 Full Paid Stock .-1----.--.- bacasens 25,000.00
General ____._ Sy SP 88.00 Adjustment Account ---~--_...----.- 511.35
ig Undivided Profits ~.......---_-___.. 5,995.49

$ 828.06
is $ 4,174.09 $-85,290.84 ~

needs be a strenuous one Mr. Williams said’

‘| ed intervention.

9

A. N. BROWN, EDITOR

(Continued from page 1)

Brown is well fitted to have charge of the
paper and its policies for the coming year.
In the fall of 1925 he entered Davidson with
a good foundation in journalism resulting
from active participation in prep school pub-
lications in his early training in the Lone
Star State. He was for two years an active
member of the Reporters’ Club, and its sec-
retary during the last year. He is secretary
of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic
fraternity. Besides his work on The David-
sonian, Brown has taken an active interest
hin class and student activities.

The paper will continue under its present
editorship until April 19th, when Brown will
take charge and appoint his staff for the
coming year.

FIVE ARE CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)
speech had been lost. The judges for the
contest were: Reid Graham, Henry Powell,
and Frank Hall.

The final contest will be held near the
latter part of May, it is thought. The Foren-
sic Council will decide some time in the near
future the exact date. Those who took part

besides the winners are as follows: R. E.
Witt, J. H. Taylor, and J. A. Jones.
PRITCHETT AND GRADY -

(Continued from page 1)
George Washington. After a very heated
discussion a vote of the audience gave vic-
tory to the University by a vote of 69 to 45.
This vote represented points rather than the
number of persons present, as there was an
audience of over 400 in attendance.

The Davidson team had a well defined and
logically worked out outline which they used
on all debates during the trip. The affirma-
tive side was upheld by the following ar-
guments: That the policy of armed interven-
‘tion leads to ill will on the part of weaker
nations and to economic exploitation: on the
part of the stronger. Thus the way is pre-
pared for war and -political imperialism.
Furthermore the American investor should
and will invest without the assurance of arm-
The use of the World Court
to settle difficulties was urged as the conclud-
ing part of the affirmative argument.

On the negative the case was summed up
as follows: There is no relationship be-
tween the present policy and imperialism.
The present policy is satisfactory and should
not be abandoned. The Monroe Doctrine

with its present interpretation demands that
we maintain our present policy. The last
negative speaker devoted much of his time
to the arguments advanced by the affirmative.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well- |

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station |

DAVIDSON, N. C.

J. M. McConnell J. J. Withers 3
H. B. Elliott C.S.Goodrum fg
T. E. Lothery C.H. Hamilton §&

Last series matured

Pritchett and Grady report that they had
a fine trip and_were well received at the in-
stitutions visited. The University of Pitts-
burgh was especially cordial in its entertain-
ment of the team, and gave them a real ex-
ample of Northern hospitality.

HUNDREDS CHARMED

(Continued from page 1)

Violin Solo — Rondo (M. Kriesler):
Miss Mary. Lou Kirby.

Song of India (Rimsky-Korsakan) ; The
Dancing Doll (Poldini-Chappin(: Sub: Miss
Simms and Miss Hutchins.

Sleep, Darling Child (Boret) :; Requiem
(Homer); I Passed By Your Window
(Brake) ; The Great Awakening (Kramer) ;
Venetian Love Sing (Nevin): Violin Ob-
ligato, Miss Kirby.

Wake, Miss Lindy (Warner).

Part 2

The Oriental Chorus (Miss Dupre) :
Misses Adams, Woodside, Herman, Ander-
son, Sims, Price.

Silver Moon—Misses Forbes and Hut-
chins, Misses Gilland, Holliday, Glen, Wat-
son, Cumings, Boyter, Wisenan, Carrington.

The Salt and Pepper Chorus—Misses
Woodside, Anderson, Sims, Burton, Adams,
Morgan.

Harlequir and: Columbire—Misses Smith
and Wright.

“Good-Night Chorus”—Misses Adams,
Sims, Roberts, Forbes, Dupre, Burton, Holli-
day, Buckalew, Gilland.

Cachuca and FinaleFrom the “Gondo-
liers” (Sullivan): Chorus.

Miss Sallie Ange, accompanist.

Mr. Glenn Crowder Staples, director of
the club, provided one of the real “hits” of
the evening when he sang three baritone solos
during the intermission. Mr. Staples was at
his best in that well-known and popular
composition, “On the Road to Mandalay,”
and the applause which greeted him at the
close of his numbers was thunderous.

LOCAL R. O. T. C.

(Continued from page 1)

the battalion review, with Colonel Merriam
as the reviewing officer.

The review will be followed by an inspec-
tion of the cadets. Guns, uniforms, and gen-
eral set-up of the unit will have a heavy
bearing upon the ultimate result of the in-
spection.

When the inspection is over, the students’
part in the day’s work will have been com-
pleted. Following the exercises a tour will
be made of the rifle ranges, drill fields, ar-
mory and equipment, and other parts of the
campus. This detailed inspection will con-
tinue through Thursday noon, at which time
the officers will leave Davidson.

Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey

will be entertained by the officers stationed
at Davidson and by the Davidson faculty.

In order that the. morning field exercises
may have sufficient time and yet not extend
into the Easter holidays, the executive com-
mittee has been asked to shorten the morning
classes on Wednesday.

Although Captain Daugherty and his as-
sistants have worked hard during the past
Several months in developing a unit here, the
officers will have to rely entirely upon the |
students on inspection day. Bad weather has
interfered severely with intensive training
planned this spring, making it doubly im-
portant that each man put all his energy into
making the day a success.

Davidson’s “esprit de corps,” a thing that
has called for considerable comment hereto-
fore, will be called upon to the limit during
the strain of. inspection. Army and cadet
officers are confident that strict attention to
'duty and enthusiastic co-operation from the
‘basic course men will bring the coveted honor
back to Davidson another year.

Students will be expected to have their
uniforms in best possible shape. The basic
course men will be given an opportunity to
clean their rifles before inspection, while ad-
vanced course men will have their instru-
ments ready.

Y VESPERS
(Continued from page 1)
not to follow the above standard, but to think
of their success in terms of service to hu-
manity.

His second standard, and that which he
would that all men should follow, was the
“Standard of Jesus Christ.” Our Savior
was not counted as a man of success by the
world in that day and time, but now every-
one names Him as the greatest being that
ever trod on mortal soil. Jesus Christ, the
supreme emblem of service, is the standard
of every successful man of God.

Christ considered the spiritual and not the
material side of man’s life. ‘What should it
profit a man, if he gain the whole world and
lose his own soul?” Christ even forgot the
needs of His own body, in order to minister
to man’s spiritual soul.

Mac Richards illustrated his points with
several beautiful quotations from Poe, Byron,
Gladstone, and Lanier. These following
words brought to a close this inspiring mes-
sage: “Men of Davidson! Decide pon your
work; allot yourselves your task and go to
it, bearing the standard of Christ, and re-
member that success depends on_ spiritual
well-doing.”

HENRY POWELL

planned for Junior Speaking, mark a revival
of interest in oratory upon the campus. A
slack of the interest in such activities has
been clearly noticeable during the past few
years,

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs.

Government.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T, SUMMBY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Aesistant Cashier

Founded 1874

1. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asset. Cashier?
M. T. WILLIAMS, Aseistant Cashier

ORTHO

The New

VICTROLA}

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

PHONIC

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Tems

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY ©

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C.

—t

:
