THEDAVI

ee

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH_15, 1928

D

No. 23

Annnal Athletic Night
Features Address by
Rev. Edgar A. Gammon

Gold Footballs Awarded Members
of Eleven—Basketball Certificates
Given to Lettermen of 1928

An address by Rev. Edgar Gammon, one-
time Hampden-Sidney gridiron hero, and
present pastor of the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church, of Charlotte, featured the
elaborate program of Athletic Night, staged
on the local campus Wednesday evening un-
der sponsorship of the Davidson Athletic
Association. Speaking on the subject of
“College Athletics,” Rev. Mr. Gammon pre-
sented an exhaustive survey of the field of
college sports with suitable emphasis on the
dangers as well as the advantages of inter-
collegiate athletic competition. :

Overemphasis was declared by Rev. Mr.
Gammon as the principal danger in modern
college athletics. Placing too much impor-
tance on winning teams, with the result that
alumni demanded a victorious eleven or a
new coach; inspiring a false sense of loyalty
to the alma mater which leads inevitably to
gambling among undergraduates and com-
mercialism by alumni; and the hazard of
athletics taking too much of the time that
rightfully belongs to studies, were pointed
out by the speaker as leading perils of a
modern trend in college athletics.

Painting a different picture, Rev. Mr,
Gammon turned quickly to the advantages
of athletics. Benefits to the body, the mind,
the personality and the character far out-
weigh the evils of college sport, and no man
should ‘fail to take advantage of the oppor-
tunity to participate, he averred) “In the
final analysis, the determining factor of all
college athletics is the coach,” he explained.
“No man in the college can exercise the in-
fluence over the ‘lives of students that the
coach can exercise. No coach should view
his work as a job. His is a calling that de-
mands the finer qualities of manhood.”

(Continued on page 5)

Converse Glee Club To

Appear Here in Concert

Singers Come as Feature of House-
Party Program on Week-End

On Saturday night, March 17th, Davidson
College will undergo a most pleasant ordeal.
On that nigi}the Glee Club from Converse
College at Spartanburg will present its pro-
gram for the current season. Coming as the
outstanding feature of the week-end, the
visit of the Glee Club fits in most oppor-
tunely with the house party program of the
various fraternities, and the coming of this
well-known organization is certain to excite
much interest on the parts of students and
townspeople alike.

Several local people have heard the Con-
verse Club in concert during the present sea-
son, and from all reports their program is
even better than that offered last year. As
all Davidson men know already, this is a
very broad statement, because the entertain-

ment presented here last year was of the’

best possible nature, and created the best im-
pression of any offered at Davidson.

The ddvance notices bill the club as
“Forty of the Fairest,” and it is expected
that Friday night will sée this statement
verified. Many. of the young ladies will dine |;

‘at the various fraternity houses on the night

of their arrival, and all in Davidson’s power
will be done to make their stay on the campus
a@ most enjoyable one. The Converse girls
are now on their annual spring tour of the
Carolinas. Everywhere they have been hail-
ed as an attraction of the first water, and
Davidson is extremely fortunate that they
have chosen to visit the “Hill” once more.

Davidson Delegates

Attend I. R. C. Meet

The International Relations Club Confer-
ence was held March 7th through March
9th, at Anderson College, Anderson, S. C.
Representatives from seven states: North
Carolina, South Carolina, Mississippi, Ala-
bama, Florida, Texas and Georgia, attended
the convention.

Interesting addresses were delivered by
the professors of the different colleges rep-
resented. The main address was given by
Baron Alphonse Heyking, of the University
of Dorpat, Russia. Baron Heyking, who is
a noted diplomat and state counselor of Rus-
sia, has served as the Russian minister of
foreign affairs, and is a member of the Rus-
sian ministry at the present time. He repre-
sents the interests of racial minorities at the
League of Nations at Geneva. Heyking will
be a guest of the chapter'of the Relations
Club here at Davidson some time in the
near future and will give an address here to
the students.

Another speaker was Miss Jones, the na-
tional secretary of the International Relations
Club, who serves as the assistant secretary
of the Carnegie Endowment for international
peace. b

One hundred delegates attended the con-
ference. Representatives from Davidson
were J. M. Akers and Riggs McConnell.
The Lions Club, the Rotary Club, and the
Kiwanis Club combined and gave the dele-
gates a banquet on Friday, the 9th.

A very interesting address was given by
Dr. Hamilton Holt, who has served as pres-
ident of one of the third American Peace
Conferences. He is now president of the
Third American Scandinavian Foundation,
and is president of the Greek-American
Clubs.

(Continued on page 8)

New Cheer Leader

Myers, Who Succeeds “Spike” McGee
in ice of Inspiring Future
Wildcats

Myers Is Chosen Cheer
Leader By Close Margin
In First Spring Election

Office of Cheer—Les Leader Here In-
volces Myriad of Responsible
Duties

WINS OVER GRADY

Sophomores Trying Out for This
Position to be Called Out
Shortly

In the annual election of the cheer leader,
held last Monday morning at chapel time,
Nelson Myers, of the Junior class, was
chosen to act in that capacity for the coming
year. Myers defeated Bob Grady, of the
same class, in the first ballot, by the score of
134 to 114.

The office of cheer leader on the David-
son campus, and off, as well, may in no sense
be termed a sinecure. Among his myriad
other tasks, the cheer leader must make ar-
rangements for the chartering of all special
trains run to the football games, assist the
| Athletic Association and the coaches in any
way possible, hold and-lead all pep meetings,
and a thousand other things; in short, he
must not only be fiery himself, but able to
fill the whole student body with that ancient
ally of Davidson, in tasks ranging from the

(Continued on page 8)

Varied Attractions Are
Planned for ‘Speaking’

Director of Charlotte’s “Jollies of
1928” Secured to Coach Junior
Dramatics

The Junior class has planned for April
27th and 28th a modified form of Junior
Speaking. A varied program is to be pre-
sented on the two days, which will include
the oratorical contest, a reception and other
kinds of entertainment. A committee has
been appointed by Mac King, president of
the class, to complete all plans ie the oc-
casion,

Friday: night, April 27th,
Oratorical contest will be held in Shearer
Hall. W. K. Pritchett was appointed to
take charge of this phase of the entertain-
ment. Those members of the Junior class
who will speak for the honors are: W. L.
Dumas, R. O. Flinn, J. R. Graham, R. E.
Kell, H. A. Knox, W. K. Pritchett and D.
D. Wilkinson. All of these men have spoken
at some previous time and keen competition
is expected.

The Davidson track team will meet the
runners from the University of South Caro-
lina on Saturday afternoon, April 28th. This
will be followed immediately by a reception
on the campus near the Y. M. C. A. rooms.
Bob Kell has charge of this committee and
plans‘ entertainment for all students, the fac-
ulty and guests.. Refreshments will be serv-

(Continued on page 8)

the annual’

Oil Man Addresses

Davidson Students

Oscar H. Reinholt spoke in Shearer Hall
on, petroleum, last Monday evening. Mr.
Reinholt being formerly a government valu-
ation engineer, is now an author,. educator
and lecturer. The title of Mr. Reinholt’s
lecture was “A Bird’s-Eye View of a Big
Business.” In his lecture he presented a
unique panorama of the oil industry, giving
its history, its growth and the importance
of the oil business. He also illustrated these
different phases of the business with photo-
graphic slides. Among his slides Mr. Rein-
holt showed the pictures of some of the
largest wells, refineries and pipe lines in the
world. His lecture was heard by a large
and appreciative audience of students, faculty
and townspeople.

Mr. Reinholt pointed out that during the
last decade the production of petroleurn. has
been the swindler’s main lure in separating
Americans from their money. He also
averred that “through dishonestly promoted
oil companies as much as $300,000,000 has
been lost in a single year.” He declared that
40,000 investors had lost more than $50,000,-
000 in the recent tar. and oil tragedies of
California.”

(Continued on page 8)

Glee Club Sings To

Davidson Glee Club appeared at the Caro-
lina Theater the first three days of this week
and played to large audiences. Their pro-
gram was well received and imp¥ovement
was shown in their numbers. Ed Wilson as-
sisted the club very ably in a short group of
the latest song hits.

The club just returned from Atlanta,
where they played at Agnes Scott College,
in Decatur, and the Women’s Club in At-
lanta.
made. a big hit in the Southern cities. The
club offered plenty of variety in their pro-
gram which required a period of about 40
| minutes, The usual progra mlasts about one
| hour and a half, but it was shortened to give
the people of Charlotte their best program.

The program at the Carolina opened with
a selection from the Sunnyland Serenaders,
which is considered to be on a par. with any
college orchestra in the South, Ed Wilson
/made a hit with his popular songs. At every
performance he was met with much applause
from his hometown folks. “The Happy
Trio,” composed of Thompson, Mobley and
McSwain, made their stringed instruments
sing. They made their program live up to
the trio’s name. Jack Ramseur followed next
with his musical saw. This number went
over big both at the theater and on the
club’s recent trip. The Wildcat Quartet
met considerable approval in their offering
of songs. The club closed the program with
two choral numbers well selected.

The club presented two programs on Mon-
day and three on the next two days of the
week. Monday the theater was turned: over
to the Chamber of Commerce, which neces-
sitated the omittance of the matinee on that
day.

The picture of the entire club appeared in
the Sunday issue of the Charlotte Observer,

(Continued on page 8)

Nine Men Selected
By Reporters Club

Two upper-classmen® and seven freshmen
comprised the nine men who, on Monday
morning, were elected to the Reporters’
Club, in recognition of outstanding work in
the journalistic field of the college. The men
named to membership in the organization
were P. R, Alderman, C. H. DuBose, S. H.
Long, J. V. Middleton, John Preston, W. C.
Ragin, Dean Rusk, C. Sisson and Sam!
Wiley.

Award of the honor, according to offi-
cials of the club, was made on the basis of
the work these men have done for The Da-
vidsonian during the first part of this year. |
All of them have shown a gift for journalis- |
tic writing, combined with a capacity for |
hard work, which should make them out-
standing in collegiate newspaper circles.

The Reporters’ Club, for years one of the
livest and most active organizations of the
Hill, is credited with having been largely
responsible for the high place The David-
sonian holds among the college papers of the
state. Giving the men whose tastes run to
journalism a chance to get together, at the
same time its awards of membership encour-
age ambitious students to take part in news-
paper work on the campus.

Initiation of these men, it is understood, is
scheduled for some time within the next two
weeks, Past ceremonies of this kind have
combined fun and seriousness in an effective
manner, and it is believed that the initiation

(Continued on page 5)

Charlotte Audience

The Atlanta papers stated that they '

CAMPUS HONOR FRATS
BID LARGE NUMBER OF |
MEN ON ANNUAL DATE

| Oidineon Delta Kapp Kappa, With Bids
Depending Upon Student Body
Elections, Extends Bids at
Later Date

| Wednesday, March 14th, was a memorable -
|day on the Davidson campus, for that was
| the day set aside by the Honorary Fraternity
| Council as bid day for the honor groups.
| Right national organizations and three local
| societies issued their bids to’ new members
on Wednesday. One of the national associa-
tions was permitted to withhold its bids un-
til a later date. This was the local circle of
| Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity,
whose bids depend largely upon, the results
of the student body elections.

Honorary Fraternity Bid Day is one of
the biggest days in the entire college year,
for on that-day the men who have done out-
standing work along the various lines are
given public recognition for the first time.
Following is a complete list of the men bid
by the respective groups:

Phi Beta Kappa, scholastic: J. M. Akers,
J. P. McKnight, C. F. McRae, W. B. Brad-
ford.

Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic order: V. J.
Guthery, M. T. Gilmour, R. F. Jarret, Z.
V. Long, Jr., F. D. Miller, C. M. Pratt, B.
A. Wilson.

Sigma Upsilon, literary:
nell, R. F. Hall, B. F.
ston, J. R. Covington.

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics:

Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic:
R. A. Glenn, C. R. Pritchett,
Murray Christian.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical: T. E.
McGeachy, S. Y. Brown, D. H. Howard.

The men bid include nine Seniors, eight
Juniors and eight Sophomores. The Biology
Club, Scabbard and Blade, Omega Phi Alpha,
and International Relation Club will bid their

(Continued on page 5)

Alligator Debaters
Downed By Li Large Count

Riggs McCon-
Cannon, J. G. John-

A. W. Cowan.
R. E. Kell,
Alan Frew,

Decision is Rendered by Popular
Vote of Those Attending
Lecture

Upholding the negative side of the query:
Resolved, That the United States Should
Cease to Protect by Force of Arms, Capital
Invested in Foreign Lands, Except After
Formal Declaration of War, L. K. Pritchette
and Bob Kell won the decision over the Uni-
versity of Florida debating team here last
| Thursday evening. A very good crowd heard
the question debated, and the audience acted
as judges, each person present voting for
|affirmative or negative. The result of the
| vote was 55 to 17 in favor of the Davidson
| team.

Speakers for both. the negative and the
| affirmative brought out a number of strong
points. The University of Florida team,
‘upholding the affirmative, pointed out (1)

that the present plan of protecting property
lof Americans in foreign countries fostered
|imperialism and that this plan was incon-

sistent with the American idea of peace;
(2) that European countries do not protect
property in foreign Jands-by armed force;
therefore America should not do so; (3)
also that we have large investments in Eu-
rope and Canada and that these investors
did not .ask protection of the United States

'Government, as they were satisfied with the

protection rendered by the local government.

Kell was the first speaker for the negative
and he proceeded to tear down the argument
of the affirmative, point by point. He was -:
followed by Pritchette, who. presented sev-

(Continued on' page 5)
