Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of
Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION, RATES:_ 10°cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.” Entered as second
‘class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

AUBREY BROWN.

. -Editor-in-Chief

W. M. POWELL.-. nsiness Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF. :
F. D. MILLER anaging Editor
Cc. M. ATT... -Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT. Managing Editor
Z. V. ING... Sports. Editor
Vv. A. MILTON -.-News Editor
*P. B. Veale -Society Editor
D. P, ANDERSON... ---Feature Editor
. W. McCUTCHAN -Assistant Editor
- L, BROWN..... -Assistant Editor
Cc. R. KE..-... -Associate Editor
: B. MORIARITY~. -Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT..-....--- Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
L, A. M Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. -Asst. Bus. Mer.
R. F. S$! ---Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS --Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEA Wisiweuteecldapucccscaess Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGTON. --Solicitor
. A. CANNON... .-Solicitor
hi. D. MAJORS..................-....-Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
, Ui PRG Yeieiers sc ssbeccsccisaseusls President
. W._McDERMID..__..._..----Vice- President
E. S. HEEFNER..........Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN J. F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE W. C, RAGIN
rf R. GRAHAM D. RUSK
. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG S. S. WILEY
J. P. MCBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1928

The Davidsonian
Wants

—everyone to contribute his part
to the fund for band uniforms.

—to thank Robt. W. Graves, ’26,
for his substantial contribution
of new books to the library.

—to pfaise that fighting team to
the skies for the never-say-die
spirit exemplified against Caro-
lina last Saturday.

—better entertainment provided
when visitors are here than the
recent Stunt Night perform-
ance proved to be, if it is to be
representative.

“ABSOLUTION FOR DAVID-
SON”

After an introductory combat with
the Senior class leaders last spring
regarding their gift insofar as the
principle of buying athletes was
brought into discussion, we have re-
treated from arguments of that na-
ture. Recently, however, Ben Dixon
MacNeill, writing in the Raleigh
“News and Observer,” brought this
question of influencing attendance of
athletes at various institutions by
means of “crude commercial consid-
erations” into prominence.

The writer, in his column, speaks
of football as “big business’ and
States clearly that he has no com-
plaint whatever against the practice
of hiring football players “except:
that there is not nearly enough of jit
done, or that it is done with so little
discrimination.” Mr, MacNeill is of
the opinion that the very best amuse-
ment obtainable should be provided
for the spectators and if that may
better be done by hiring a team, then
hire one!

His point of criticism regards the
hypocrisy which, he says, is prac-
ticed as undergraduates assail one
institution for buying a star player
and at the same time attempt to es-
tablish their own claim to having a
team which receives no remunera-
tion whatsoever. ‘

“Personally,” writes Mr. Mac-
Neill, ‘I am in favor of hiring more
and better players, to the end that
the show be improved and that the
business prosper., But at the same
time I think it proper, from a pure-
ly moral standpoint, that the under-
graduates be taken into the confi-
dence’ of the managers of this big
business, to the end that they be not
further required to stultify them-
selves in» hypocrisy. It is bad for
youth.

“While I am about this disserta;
tionfi being an unlettered and non-
partisan neutral among the colleges,
I wish to say a final word for David-
son College. I think the students
there must be honest about their pro-
tests that they hire no players. I
believe it would not be possible to
hire young men to play as hard as
the Davidson brethren play. It is
among their traditions, and I think
they stand in worthy awe of their

‘ .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

November 22, 1928.

traditions down there. But as for
the rest of them, I devoutly wish
they would extend their purchasing
operations, and provide the customer
with a better show for his money,
and then be frank enough to admit
commercialism.”

As long as Davidson continues to
present fighting teams as those of
past seasons for the entertainment
of the public and as representatives
of a loyal student body there will be
more real pride and more satisfac-
tion in having such an aggrega-
tion even though they may lose to
teams representing larger and
wealthier colleges than in producing
teams which win one championship
after another and are paid for their
services. '

WE DID FORGET TO MEN-
TION AN INFIRMARY

In mentioning needs for Davidson
in the way of equipment last week
we were somewhat fearful of citing
places where money might be well
spent lest something be overlooked.
And there was an omission. We are
reminded that Davidson is in need of
a new infirmary. The present ar-
rangements are inadequate altogeth-
er both as regards the building itself
and equipment. Perhaps someone
will feel inclined to. investigate this
deficiency and offer a new building,
fully equipped, in place of the pres-
ent one. Well, there’s a new church,
But we won't start this all over
again.

too.

BLAZERS FOR THE SENIORS
AND UNIFORMS FOR THE
BAND

Now that the seniors have their
official distinctive garb for the year
there really ought to be a way to
designate the band, in order that
there may be no confusion, Seri-
ously though, as the movement is
begun, led by Captain John W. Elk-
ins, there should be a united re-
sponse from the student body even
as there is already from the faculty
and the legion posts. With such an
impetus as has been given at the
very first there is little doubt but
that all will contribute liberally and
at once,

ITS NOT DEAD

No, it is not dead, nor even seri-
ously ill, In fact, Davidson’s tradi-
tional spirit and fight, with especial
reference to football, is very much
alive and kicking. Witness the Wild-
cat football club and Wildcat student
body. If ever a team showed fight,
if ever a student body supported a
team, then that thing has been sur-
passed here of late on the Davidson
campus, Every important game has
heen lost, there has been no glory of
victory, but there has been no decline
of spirit.

A favorite topic for campus con-
versation has been the old story of
the days that used to be, of the times
when victory was the habit of a Red
and Black team, no matter who the
opponent. Tales of how the boys
used to back their team. Tales of
how that team would play inspired
football and scrap till the last
whistle. And, usually, the ultimatum
has been that the old spirit was lack-
ing, the expected fight was missing,
the students no longer took active in-
terest in the team!

After watching a comparatively
tiny Wildcat eleven fight its heart
out against the massive battalions of
V. M. 1., N.C. State, Carolina, and
at the same time, observing the reac-
tions of the student body, we have
decided that the spirit of Davidson is
marching on as always. .The team
suffers when a successful play is run
against it, but no more than the boys
i nthe stands suffer.
one for all. That is the feeling that
has given Davidson the name of a
fighting college, and that is the feel-
ing which will carry her on to cer-
tain success.

Until the last man has handled the
ball at Durham on _ Thanksgiving
Day, that team will fight on, and be-

hind it will be six hundred yelling,
hoping men. Off years are bound to

All for one, |

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotghpot ;

By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

A few days ago North Carolina au-
thorities sent to Alabama and brought
back a prisoner. He escaped four-
teen years ago after having served one
year on a twenty-year term for second
degree murder, Meanwhile he has
become the leading citizen of his new
Alabama home, and has become high-
ly respected and trusted. In fact, he
sounds like a modern Jean Valjean.

It looks like we'll be able to sweeten
our coffee quite cheaply next year.
The price of raw sugar has dropped
since January, 1927, from 5.9 cents to
1.91 cents per pound, which is the low-
est price on record. Refined sugar,
over. the same period, has dropped
from 6.36 to 5.10 cents. Cuba’s supply
of sugar will amount to between 41-2
and 5 million tons, and it is probable
that there will be huge Javanese pro-
duction. All of which is going to be
mighty hard on sugar producers.

It has been observed that the speed
of ants varies so closely with the tem-
perature that the temperature could
be calculated to within one degree by
timing the movements of the ants.
They are very regular in all their af-
fairs, although they are so small that
it takes 140,000 of them to weigh a
pound,

The Republican National Committee
has collected $4,911,744.52 and dis-
bursed $4,744 361.07 while the Dem-
ocratic Committee has collected $4,088,-
933.09 and disbursed $4,008,023.68 ac-
cording to reports of their treasurers
filed with the clerk of the House of
Representatives. Well, the Republi-:
cans seem to have gotten results with
their larger amount expended. :

The Keystone Aircraft Corporation
has recently completed the largest
Passenger plane in the United States.
It has three 525 horse-power motors
and is capable of 155 miles per hour,
and can carry a load of 71-2 tons. Its
cabin includes a statroom with sleep-
ing compartment and seats for twenty
passengers,

Speaking of aviation, a new form of
cowl has been introduced for radial
air-cooled motors. This new form
cuts down air resistance, and increases
efficiency so that a plane capable of
118 miles per hour can go 137 miles
per hour. And it costs only twenty-
five dollars if installed at the factory.

Aviation is stepping right along, as
shown by the following: A number of
railroads are planning to operate air-
planes in conjunction with transcon-
tinental express trains. A ship-to-
shore service has been definitely plan-
ned by the French line. The Ameri-
can Railway Express Company has
inaugurated transcontinental air pack-
age service. The Department of Ag-
riculture is using this year four planes
to apply insecticides to check the boll-
weevil. With such strides as it has
been taking, who can say where it will
be ten years from now?

Rudolph Kircher, a German writer,
in a book called “Fair Play,” dealing
with England ahd the English people,
gives this definition of fair play. “ ‘Fair
Play’ is a great conception, for in
these two words are summed up all
that English education and ethics hold
most dear... . ‘Fair Play’ governg the
relations with one’s negihbors, espe-
cially in those things which put a man
on his mettle, competition, war, rivalry,
and love. ‘Fair Play. means regard for
one’s neighbor and seeing the man
and fellowplayer in one’s opponent.”
Whether this definition is correct mat-
ters little, but it says something that
less than ten years after the close of
the world war such a passage can be
written by a German concerning the
English. i

Having a sweeping majority,
trust they will come clean,

we

The New York Times reports that
Mr. Hoover has had the experience of
having a star Hooveria, named after
him. The Roman Emperors were not
allowed to have this in life. Not until
their death did they @scend to the
stars. But the Viennese, grateful to
Mr. Hoover for what he did for their
relief after the war, have apotheosized
him, placing him in the skies between
Jupiter and Mars. “The Senate of
Austria gave his name to a ‘planet’ dis-
covered by one of their astronomers in
1920. It wa sthe fortuity of finding
that particular planet when’ even the
professors in the university had to be
fed in public kitchens and Dr. Pirquoet
was measuring children to determine
their nutritional needs, that gave his
name to that newly found wanderer of
the skies. ‘Hoover’ was their friend
in need, and it was natural that they
should put him among the stars that
they thanked for life itself.”

An American journal reports a
movement in Turkey called Behaism,
which is said to have originated in In-

‘dia and to be spreading rapidly west-

ward. Behaism is neither a religion
nor a secret society, though its tenets
hold some similarity to those of the
Free Masons. . It extols virtue and love
as the highest of human qualities, and
it requires neither ceremonies, priests,
nor preachers. The principles of Be-
haism are as follows: Humanity is a
tree and human beings are the leaves
and branches. Men and women are
equal. Quarreling, anger, hatred, re-
venge and superstitution are  pro-
hibited. Behaists must submit them-
selves to the laws of the countries to
which they belong, Falsehood, cheat-
ing and divorce are deadly sins. Should
a man and woman desire to part they
must live under the same roof for nine
months, and if at the end of that time
no reconciliation has taken place they
may resort to legal separation. Poly-
gamy and infidelity are forbidden.
The Behaists regard all men as broth-
ers, and recognize no difference of re

ligion; they are the enemies of all
fanaticism. They regard Christ,
Moses, Mohammed and Buddha as

prophets of one Creator. They insist
on a lower and middle school edtca-
tion for all,

OPEN FORUM

Mr. Editor:

Will you please publish the following
editorial, from the New York World in
the next issue of The Davidsonion?

—T.S.

HOOVER AND SMITH

“The result is not what we Wished it to
be, but it is an indisputable result. Mr.
Hoover is elected President of the United
States by a clear and unmistakable ma-
jority of the American people. The
World salutes the wifftter. It salutes the
next President. It wishes him health,
strength and good fortune.

“To Governor Smith wa say that he can
look backward upon this campaign with
a good conscience. He has fought an
honest, clean and candid battle for ideas,
which will surely prevail. The odds
against him were insuperable; his gal-
lantry in face of them will long be remem-
bered. The American people love a brave
man, and among public men Al Smith is
the bravest of our time. He has lost the

come, maybe two or three of them,
but a spirit that won’t say die can’t
die, and that is why Davidson is
bound to come back,

Z.V.L., JR.

election, but he retires with his flag flying.’
It has been a privilege to fight with him
on such a field.”

WHY NOT A NEW FLAG?

Among the rules which govern the
use of the American flag is one which
states that when its days are done it
shall be burned. :

Obviously the rule has not been ap-
plied at Davidson. -We do not know
just who is responsible for supplying
the local flagpole with a flag, whether
it be college or War Department. But
someone has failed.

The tattered ensign has long waved,
as the most prominent feature of the
campus, upon a silvery pole which in-
cidentally is the gift of some previous
senior class.

To the Class of 1929: ‘

No one else seems to take an inter-
est in the ravelling flag. Now here’s
your opportunity to buy a gift which
will cost much less and do far more
good than proposed athletic scholar-
ships,*stone benches, etc.

But it will bé decomposed before you
are ready to make contribution. Oh,
well, the sophomores won’t be brother-
ed with giving excuses for leaving it
up all night when it has decayed.

—Vandermorgan.

AN UNWRITTEN PAGE OF HISTORY
Entrance of Brigham Young at '5 A, M.

—Colgate Banter.

THE BULL PEN

(Editor’s Note: This column of

every reason in the world for being even weaker than usual.

Davidson’s Weakly Newspaper has
In fact, it

should be positively sick—for at the time of writing, it is the morning after
several nights before and not long after that second half of the Davidson-

Carolina game.)

Speaking of that second half, reminds us of Byron’s little ditty that runs

something like this:

“For most men (till by losing rendered sager)
Will back their own opinions with a wager.”
Ladies and gentlemen (and others who may read this column), we are

much more

sager” than we once were.

Who ain’t? For Mr, Byron had

mankind pretty well analyzed after all...
If that game had ended at the half, there wouldn’t be any “Bull Pen” this

week,

Mr. Editor-in-Chief could leave the space blank or fill it with edi-

torials (same thing, only different) or find some other aspiring columnist and
seduce him to be this week’s Matador (an old Spanish word, meaning “kill-
er;” killer of time, the bull or what have you),

Talking about that Carolina game, all the papers said Carolina was go-
ing to start their second team. Now we don’t know enough about Carolina’s
men to distinguish between the first team and the second, but, just off-hand,
we would have said that the team that started looked a lot like their “All-

American.”

Maybe it was just by comparison.

They tell us that the Freshman stunt last Saturday. night had quite a big

cut out, for various reasons,

Say, if the Davidsonian censor had done the

work on that Stunt Night performance there wouldn’t have been anything to
it but the two Glee Club chorus selections. He would have even cut out that
selection from Schubert's Serenade—it has a couple of notes used in “Sweet

Adeline”’—and that—well!

A reward of 2c will be paid for the arrest and conviction of anyone read-
ing this column more than twice a semester.

Reading of editorials in Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper (The Davidson-
ian Covers Davidson like the Mud) is strictly prohibited by the Editor him-

self.
PREPARATION OF A CONTRIBUTION
1, Type it carefully on plain, white, standard size paper.
2. Re-read for errors, being sure you did not omit the point of your joke.
3. Place in envelope addressed, care Feature Editor, Davidsonian,

4. Seal it and drop it in the post office slot marked “Domestic,” “For-

eign,” “Air Mail” or “Local.”
this saves us lots of time.

Many thanks to Q. E. D. for contribution.

Or, better still, throw it in the waste-basket—

Sorry we can’t print it, but

this isn’t that kind of a column, don't you know!

A prominent traffic expert says that what is making our highways dangerous is

the heavy liquor traffic,

VIEWS AND REVIEWS

By Chatham Clark

| ‘
Recently we read that most non-| but still the good somewhat compen-

descript book, “All Kneeling,” by Anne

Parish. In it she has iven a light,

smooth-reading life of Christabel Cain,
a most patronizing authoress, too weak
to make a choice between her atten-

tive husband and her love for writing.

This book contains some beautiful
phrases that are offset by exaggerated
description. If the author had con-
tinued her story for a few more pages,
probably one would be able to decide
just what opinion to adopt in. regard
to the novel sponsored by “The Lit-
erary Guild” or “The Book of the
Month Club.” At any rate we can as-
sure you that either of the two has
put out better novels.

Eugene ‘O’Neill’s latest play, “Strange
Interlude” has just arrived in the li-
brary. This play, however, has en-
joyed a year’s success on Broadway and
seems to be growing in popularity; it
is by no means stale literature.

One of the novel features in this
masterpiece is the fact that the char-
acters speak their thoughts whether
complimentary or otherwise. The lan-
guage enployed is frank, to say the
least, and sometimes seems indelicate,

sates for the bad. If you don’t believe

it’s popular just to find it in the library.
library,

The Forbidden Woman, by Frances
Mocatta: Unfortunately this book has
not been purchased for the library. It
is the story of Annette Duval, who set
out to conquer a world denied her.
“Seven-eighths white, educated white,
brought up with white foks—and
damned for a negro.”

But this is not alone the story of
Annette. It is of Harlem and of
Sandyville, Ga.; of Southern aristoc-
racy, British nobility, and an age-old
problem, Three hundred interesting
Pages and well worth your reading,

The Green Murder Case, by Van
Dine, is one of thepopular new books
in the library; also Bambi by Salten
is another. The latter is a story of an-
imal life, and it is said that it will
rank as one of the child’s classics in
years to come. Guess you read Deluge
when it came out the first of the past
summer? If you didn’t we'll save you
that trouble, It is the most impossible
of books, with the exception of “Alice
in Wonderland.”
