4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

———~ |

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association . ‘

-Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Assecia’ :

tion

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

Au, Articles for. Teblona must be by the Batic me
i itor q . m. Monday. Arti fe-
ceived trom an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF

|
|
|
|
|

|

dav. The above is not true of all the students,
but it is quite true of a number of them. :

It is possible that students are interestedin
reading the returns and accounts of, athletic
contests, and it is only normal that some should
do this. But it is a matter of importance when
the majority of the men here are interested in
topics of such a type. It is true that there are
a number of times when an editorial page might
as well have been left a blank, a situation only
too true of this page, but the matter we are 1n-
terested in is that no one seems to care what is
the worth of any editorial page.

To make the general indictment more spe-
cific, we will return to the discussion of this
page. There are times when one feels that

there is an important message which must be |

|
|
'
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
j
|
}

| transmitted to the student body in the shape of |
' anopinion. Yet it seems rather futile when one

Ai No BROWN jjuccccceutelsecccs.ccccecccucd Managing Editor
Wi F KGPRIMGH Wad, cccscoccseccues Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY .-...-.-.-.---------------- Managing Editor
Gi Ri STASI cases sa aceccasesuntace .--Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE .~ .-Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS .-Associate Editor
T. T. JONES . Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ..-.-..---.---------------Alumni Editor |
Ri CMGRADYcess cocescaek excuses ccccstes Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF ,

R. S. ABERNETHY-...--.--..-- Assistant Business Manager

SB) JiAGGIBON iie56 co cccccece Assistant Business Manager
WwW. M. WELLL... _.Assistant Business Manager
P. 1. GARRISON ...Subscription Manager
BR. W. DICKSON. Circulation Manager

S. W. MORRIS..... Sates cette POCRCOS
W. _B. McGUIRE_...-..-.-..-------- 4--------------- Solicitor

Bui MGA Glick i ea ea eatoe

Reporters’ Club

WRU BAILEY . 20 oo ee seeens
; LEN aR -s--e----2----. Vice-President

t ‘ 1: ONY REESE SSS SHS es: Secretary-Treasurer
ee ”. McDERMI

W._H. B UEEN

E, T. D. MILLER

E. S. A, MILTON

M. K. M. PRATT

R. F. J pW KES

F. NV . R. TREVERTON

Z..V. LONG W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

Again Death, with an unrelenting
hand, has cast a shadow over our tiny
community and take from us one of our
own, Reid Knov. All that knew him
loved, admired, and respected him; and
mourn deeply his passing. To the be-
reaved family The Davidsonian staff
wishes to express its sincerest sym-
pathy. 4

| world.

considers that ten or twelve would be an opti-
mistic guess as to the number of men who
would read this message. There are times when

one can sympathize with the ones who do read |

this column when they are faced with nothing
but words, words, words. It would not be pes-
simistic to assume that they believe that they
are confronted with this every issue.

This is intended in no waysas a plea for
hypocritical comment or in an endeavor to make
someone say something about this page in par-
ticular; but it is an attempt to awaken some of
the minds of the students to problems about
which thev should be concerned.

Possibly one of the main reasons for the
lack of interest in things outside of our own
rather narrow lives is the over-organization on
the campus. Practically every Senior has some
organization or activity in which he is inter-
ested, and it is the problems and plans of this
group which interests him particularly. Waiv-
ing the question as to the relative merits and
evils of over-organization, it should he pointed
out that those interested in a group should be
interested in the influence of this group upon
others and its relation in general to the outside
There are problems of these groups

| which affect the entire student body, but there

have heen none this vear who have attempted
to present these problems and endeavor to find
a solution to them.

The advisability of abolishing the editorial

| page completely should now be brought out.

DOES ANYONE EVER READ
EDITORIALS?

From the heading of this article is would
seem that a plea is being made for a closer
perusal of the columns of this page. Such is
not our purpose, however, but rather a mere
query as to whether or not the student body
is ever interested in anything but the sporting
page and the comics. There is also the ques-
tion as to whether or not the college weekly is
really anything but a chronicle of events to be

Again the old cry of “student opinion” would
he raised by those who have never noticed
whether thé paper has.an editorial page or not.
There was a great hue and cry when the “Pea-
nut Parcher” was abolished last vear; but dis-
regarding a few, there would be no such protest
were these columns given over to current news
articles. Considering it sanely, it is best that
this section of the paper be continued merely
for the appearance of things, even if there is
nothing but hooev and hullabaloo in it each
week.

There should be, however, more ‘“‘crvstalli~

zation of student thought” appearing in this |
paper if possible. It is only natural that one

man should present one side of a subject more
vehemently than another. We cannot disre-
gard our petty prejudices so lightly. But if
there were other articles presenting various

sides of different problems, really representing |

student thought on those subjects the paper

' would immediately become the force that it

filed for future reference; the research being |

made several years later by an enterprising re-
porter to fill up an empty column.

The general blah about a college journal cen- _

ters about the fact that it is of necessity repre-
sentative “student opinion and thought” That
is taken for granted, no one ever attempts. to
go back of it. But it might be asked, do the
biased views of one man necessarily reflect the
trend of thought of the entire student body?
This seems to be the general consensus of
opininon on the subject, for there have been
but three Open Forum articles handed in dur-
ing this collegiate year as an expression of stu-
dent thought. There have been no suggestions
as what the student body is thinking on any
subject, so it might be assumed that they are

outside their own small sphere.

It is not to be expected that every man in col-'

lege be intensely interested in every word writ-
ten on any editorial page; it is not to be ex-
pected that every man here will offer some
helpful suggestion each week. But it was
thought that someone would be concerned why
the basketball schedule was what it was, why
the literary societies were not functioning, why
a certain prominent speaker made the indict-
ments of college men that he did—but save for

should be on the campus.

Also there has been a deplorable paucity of
Open Forum articles this vear; an average of

one a month would be rather exaggerated, the |

majority of these having been written by mem-
bers of the staff. If there were no problems
and unusual situations on the campus, this
could be easily understood; but as: it is now,
one feels that the students are either not inter-

ested or that they believe the situation can be |
| approval or negation upon this action.

cleared up by private initiative outside the col-
umns of this paper.

Whether these columns are being read week-
ly is immaterial; but whether or not students

| are really thinking is of great importance. - In
» a year or so our interests and activities will no

longer be concerned with merely: a tiny com-

) ight ; ‘y are | munity, but with a nation and with the world.
serenely apathetic in relation to any activities |

a few on the staff interested in the makeup of |

the paper there has been little comment.

The above statements hold true not only in
the reading of this paper but also each day with
the dailies of neighboring cities. Before chapel
there are a number of students reading news-
papers ; they do not deign, however, to read the
current news on the first page, any comment of
national or international im

torial page, but turn immediately to the sport-
ing section or the comic section. After that a
few read Brisbane’s articles, and some turn
back later to the more important

rtance on the edi- |

There are some who are concerned now with

‘outside problems, there are others who are con-

cerned with campus problems, but from all ap-
pearances it seems that the majority of the stu-
dent body here is concerned with absolutely
nothing. To the larger number of people this
means absolutely nothing, and this editorial will
have gone the way of all the rest. But anvwav,

}saction. However, Omicron < aq | capt
n Delta Kappa will | the last, but the great majority—the part of a

uled their meeting time with no thought, how-
ever, for the struggling Phi’s and Eu's.

It is believed’ that the societies are well on
their way now to:take the position they ia
on the campus here. But they will be thwarte
if student leaders thoughtlessly continue to at-
tract members away with other meetings on
Thursday night. Thgse who realize the true
worth of the societies are attempting to co-
operate with them in every way. It will be
only a slight inconvenience if Thursday nights
are left free for literary society work alone,
and a great cause will be helped if students will
consider others when scheduling their activi-

ties.

Open Forum

AN EXPLANATION

The question has arisen in the minds of some
of the students during the past week as to just

| why the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa

should suddenly take the support of two rather
decadent’ organizations upon itself. The or-
ganizations in question, of course, are the lit-
erary societies. This article will in some meas-
ure attempt to explain that action.

It is no secret that the Omicron Delta Kappa
fraternity recognizes successful effort in five
phases of campus activity, namely, scholarship,
athletics, social leadership, publications and
other non-athletic activities. Debating and lit-
erary activities would, of course, be included in
this last group on the Davidson campus. Upon
a review of the situation it became apparent to
the local members of the circle that the circle
had done little to foster meritorious activity in
this department. The literary societies, which
had formerly produced the leading debaters of
the college, had sunk to low levels of activity
and interest, and the condition had become such
that few, if any, of Davidson’s intercollegiate
debaters were members of the societies, or took
any active interest in them. Under the result-
ing system there was little opportunity for a
successful debater to impart his store of knowl-
edge to his successors, and for the latter to
profit by the former’s experience. The result
has been that a student's training in public
speaking has been confined in most cases to a
semester course in that subject and to any at-
tempts that he may have made to win a place
on the debating teams. Omicron Delta Kappa
{ scognizes. the factthat-every leader-must at
some time exercise his powers as a public speak-
er and that should he fail to possess such a
power, his influence weuld be materially weak-
ened. Because of this lack of opportunity for
training Omicron Delta Kappa has taken the
task upon itself! of reviving a waning interest
in the societies.

The ‘literary societies are the best agent for
this work at Davidson and moreover they nes-
sess an invaluable historic interest to the col-
lege that should not be allowed to die. How-
ever, do not get the idea that this interest is
being exercised solely for the societies’ histori-
cal background. Rather this element is simply
an attribute to the advantages which an in-
creased interest can produce, for the members
of the circle feel with the other students that
there should be no parasitical organizations on
the campus.

The members of the circle have pledged them-
selves to support the societies and to do everv-
thing in their power to strengthen them. It
remains for the other students to place their

The circle realizes fully, that the approval of
the students at large may not be as lasting as
was indicated by the first meetings after their

continue to uphold its stand that public speak-
ing ability is essential to every leader and will

| select its members accordingly, in the mean-

| pective members.

time endeavoring to develop that trait in pros-
rs. Is that a threat to force all
those, who aspire to leadership, to approve its

| action and to support the societies? Absolutely

we still wonder, does anyone ever read edi- |

torials ?

THURSDAY NIGHTS

Now that the literary societies are function- -

ing again each Thursday night, the powers-
that-be among student activities should attempt
to co-operate with them in every way in leaving
Thursday night free for forensic activities
alone.

Since the societies have been on the |

decline other student activities have attempted |
to usurp the literary organizations from their |

place on the activities schedule. Committee
meetings, athletic contests, practices, and vari-

ous other extra-curricular activities have sched-

|

not. It is simply a principle to which the circle
must-adhere if it-wishes to maintain its honor-
ary standing. There is a chance that the socie-

campus today.

but they are the best that exist on any college
Walter L. Lingle, Jr.

“You are a traveler, sir,” said a passenger in

with Mulwich?”

Random Remarks on Anything From
Steam Shovels to Steam Pianos

| The Exploding Valve

Davidson has always been termed “provin-
cial.’ Lt was a stigma which we all reserited
but upon no sound grounds could we show our
adversaries how they erred. In the main, the
bare fact was that we did not care to admit the
accusation and therefore flatly denied it, but
we could assign no rational argument to our
rebuttals. And so the affair remained.

But now there comes along a book, wherein
certain American standards are set forth, ex-
plained, and humorously denounced. We can
now judge for ourselves whether we are in the
Swim. Charles Merz’s The Great American
Band Wagon rolls across this great country in
broad, pleasing jolts. It gives all a chance to
smile at themselves and grin at others. But
more than that, Davidson is cleared of that
horrible accusation of being “provincial.” True
it is that we do fall short in some things such
as murder trials and tabloids for the illiterate,
but we do measure up to the mark of Mr. Merz

in most cases.

The beauty about the whole thing is that we
are not conceited about our stand. One hardly
knows a radio exists in Davidson until a prize
fight comes along. Then we can listen in to
fistfuls. It is better that way. We have secret
societies galore, and the intensity of our golf-

t ers, while not producing such excellent golf,

does serve amusement for the participants,
business “for tailors who specialize in plus-
fours, and livelihood for the caddies. What
more could be asked? We have even gone so
far as to have something which resembled a
beauty contest. Not that any of the contestants
were lacking in interest but a certain inherent
personal trait was missing. The winner richly
deserved his prize. Even the rickity, worn-out
moving picture machine which ran only once a
week has been replaced by a theatre offering
highly sentimental stuff every week-day and
thrilling western serials on Saturdays. This
innovation brought about a change here in this
“provincial place. This change relegated com-
pletely the despised term into a limbo along with
mustache cups and men who did not own an
automatic lighter. And now the final consum-

| mation is the new speakeasy. Sodas, according

to Mr. Merz, constitute an important part in
The Great American Band Wagon.

In all fairness, we think this book to be an
unbiased standard. We now are looking for a

- night club and prohibition agents.

Davidson men, it seems, are either angels or
thugs. Several parties to a controversy con-
cerning bumming, while not mentioning Da-
vidson men especially, throw .these titles pro-
miscuously in the direction of all those who
bum about the country. We differ with both
of the sides to the argument. It is not, how-
ever, because of a dislike for the adjectives

_ used in our connection, but chiefly because the

{

facts are mis-stated. The truth of the matter
is that we are broke.

The attempt of interested parties, headed by

| the local circle of O. D. K., to revive the Lit-

erary Societies, is commendable. But we doubt
if anything permanent can be done to assure
the return for good of these organizations
which meant so much to the welfare of the
students and collegeyalike ten years ago. Times

| have changed, and we predict an unusually

strong and interested man will be required to

| place these by-gone institutions on their feet

again, Furthermore, the societies themselves
more or less cut their own throats by not pro-
viding programs which would appeal to the
average student. A few capable men stuck to

body which can be counted upon for unstinted
levotion and encouragement—forsook the lodge
and went to the movies. The show was good,
too, so this backbone of the decaying skeleton
repeated the trip to the theater the next Thurs-
day night.

But the miraculous may happen, and another
Woodrow Wilson may be fined by the Eume-

| nean for misconduct at meetings.
ties are not the best agents to develop speakers, |

“Have vou given him anything or done any-
thing to relieve him?” asked the young doctor,

| who had fared into the backwoods to see a pa-
| tient in the dead of a stormy night.
a local train, “and perhaps you are familiar _

“Yes,” replied the other passenger. “I call |
| there on every trip.”

“Glad to hear it. I’ve never been there.
Which hotel would you advise me to top at?”
“The Majestic.” — :
“Do you always go there?”
“No, I’ve never sto there, but I’ve been
to all the others.”—Tit-
if

_ mustard init, and I slapped a red-hot
| his back, an’ another on his chest, an

“Well, no doc—that is to say, nothin’ to speak
of,” said the wife of the patient. “I had him
soak his feet in almost b’ilin’ water with a lot of
plaster on

I’ve put
a couple of blisters I had in the house under his
arms, an’ a bag o’ cracked ice to the back of his
neck, but I didn’t feel like as if I ort to give
much 0’ anything, until you came an’ see what
you think ailed him. Then I reckoned we could
‘so somethin’ for him.”"—Ex, .
