Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘THE DAVIDSONIA

Published Weekly by the Students of
hee Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,

Monday. Anonymous articles will

not be published. :
AUBREY BROWN._.-..--... -Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL..---...---Bnsiness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF :
Pe2D) MILDER Css ccc Managing Editor
Cc. M. PRA ---Managing Editor
R. F. Managing Editor
Z. V. Sports Editor
Vv. A. -News Editor
P. B, -Society Editor
D.P. A .Feature Editor
. Ww. ssistant Editor
}: L. ---Assistant Editor
Cc. R._L. cA. .-Associate Editor
. B. MORIARITY -Associate Editor
Ww. K. PRITCHETT--.-.....--Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. MILLS...-...-.-.-..--.--Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL -Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE -Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. OOP... ---Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS... Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN wate

WiiPadsGulss causa cvsasuequasd, President

eikek Vice-President

...Secretary-Treasurer
. F, PRESTON
WV. C. RAGIN

P.
\ R GRAHAM D, RUSK
k W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
S LON S..S. WILEY

. LON . S. W.
° ie McBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOV. 15, 1928

i

The Davidsonian
ants

ole
s

—to welcome all alumni and vis-
itors to the campus for Home-
coming Day on the 17th.

—every student to take a person-
al interest i nthe return and re-
ception of the “old grads.”

—to commend the Forensic Coun-
cil’s excellent debate schedule,
hoping that many debaters will
respond for the try-outs.

—Monk Younger’s Wildcats to
remember how the stadium
dedication was celebrated two
years ago and repeat the score
Saturday.

MR. ALUMNUS, WE’LL BE
GLAD TO SEE YOU!

When alumni and friends of the
college arrive here Saturday for the
annual Homecoming Day the most
significant and the most striking im-
pression which they will receive will
be the finished aspect which Cham-
bers Building has assumed since last
they were here. Indicative of a new
era, this new structure stands as a
challenge to the Davidson Spirit
which all of them have known since
their student days and should serve
as added impetus for each to give his
hest in every way to Alma Mater.

It is a fine cuseom for one day to
be designated as.that one when busy,
men all over the Southland will drop
their worlg) and come back to the
scenes of the happiest days of their
lives to renew acquaintances, to es-
tablish new contacts and to revel
once again in that intangible thing
called “college spirit.”

There will be welcomes on that
day until they will feel utterly as-
sured that the college, the student
body, and all attachees are delighted
to have them home again. The Da-
vidsonian welcomes these sons of
Davidson to the campus and hopes
that the day will be filled to the ut-
termost with the most pleasant ex-
periences possible. Further, we
hope that every day will be a time
when these alumni and friends will
feel assured that they are welcome
to this, their own college.

AND CONTINUING

‘Easily the outstanding event of
Saturday will be the football game
with|/the University of North Caro-
lina, This is indeed the big drawing
card, admittedly, and we are: glad
that Davidson’s cogches, the finest
anywhere, have that Wildcat ma-
chine in tip-top shape for the en-
counter. We know that these eleven
’Cats will acquit themselves like
those who have gone before them
and will, in victory or defeat (vic-
tory, we believe) exemplify the fact
that the “fighting spirit’ still lives.

With the noise and celebration of
the day; with the pleasures of asso-
ciations; and the general excitement

of the occasion, many will fail to ob-
serve certain deficiencies’ in ‘the
physical plant of the institution.
Great strides have been made within
the past few years as additions have
been made, but still there are im-
perative demands today.

Probably the greatest need is a
suitable place to house the new De-
partment Physical Education.
There is no provision at present.

Along with this is the lack of a
social center—a_ building wherein
might be located the various offices
of campus activities—a central place
for student functions.

There are the Barracks. A dormi-
tory is needed in their place.

A band without uniforms. What
a paradox and yet what a reality !

Student organizations, worthy
enough, are lacking in finances suf-
ficient to promote them, Dramatics,
for instance. he

Consider the campus lighting fix-
tures. Inadequate and insufficient.

The attempt has not been made to
list every need but those which are
outstanding. These things are lack-
ing, and they are necessary. They

of

should be investigated.

MASQUE OF THE RED
DEATH

Aiter eleven years of hectic life
a child of the college is dead, This
child is that student,grganization, the
Dramatic Club, or as it was popular-
ly called, the Red and Black Mas-
quers. There may be some doubt as

missing—and that completely.
Malnutrition has been given as
the cause of its evident decease. In
the whole of last year, one program
was presented and this was such an
evident fiasco that not even this pub-
lication mentioned it.

At the end of the year, to follow
an old Davidson custom, officers
were elected, and then the organiza-
tion was allowed to die a natural
death. No steps have been taken this
year, by the ones in charge to revive
an interest in the Dramatic Club.
Is it possible, in a school of over
six hundred students, where there
are so many men preparing for pub-
lic lives, where we have famous
orators and excellent debaters, that
talent is lacking to put on a dramatic
program of at least the usual merit ?
It has been argued that there are
already too many “extra-curricular
activities” on the campus. We do
not think so. There is no activity at
Davidson which even approaches
that field covered by dramatics.

We would like to see some one
who is not too very busy to take an
active interest in this and put the
Red and Black Masquers over.

—C. M. P.

Minor Chords

LONG HOUSE
You can not know how terrible and
strange

It seems to me that now she has to lie

Out of sight of the sun’s bright golden

eye

And out of touch with the moon.

She used to range

The streets and parks bathed in the sun

and moonlight,

Thoughtless most of the day, thoughtful
at night,

But swimming always in the reflected
glow

From the lava fields of the sun or the
moon's white meadows of snow.

I can not vision her without the flare

Of morning sunlight falling through her
hair,

T can not think of her without the moon

Of whitest midnight; the yellow sun of
noon,

Without the shadows’ laughter in the
park ;

T can not see her silent in the dark.

—Merrill Moore, in the Autumn
Sewanee Review.

“Nevt to a beautiful girl, what do you
think is the most interesting thing in the
world?”

“When I’m next to a beautiful girl I’m

not worrying about statistics.”
—Virginia Reel.

to its actual death, but it is assuredly:

November 15, 1928.

—<—

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Breaking his usual custorth of silence,
President Coolidge celebrated Armistice
Day by making perhaps the best speech of
his career. Advocating a stronger navy
and classifying armament as a necessary
defense, he also refuted much foreign
criticism of America’s so-called isolation.
He closed by making a plea for world-
wide peace. He explained that precautions
for defense do not necessarily connote
preparation for war. The country agrees
with him, but it is to be hoped that some
of our feebler diplomats will be prevented
from scrapping half of the new vessels at
the next disarmament conference.

* * *

Big business flourishes on the promise
of a Republican administration. On Mon-
day all records were broken for number
of sales. Over five million, five hundred
thousand shares of stock were bought,
sold and traded. Small banks close their
doors to the farmer and small merchant,
but corporations and trusts thrive by the
success of their political. organ,

* * *

While trade and commerce hurries in its
rush for dividends, certain would-be con-
scientious inividuals concern themselves
with problems of-inter-sectional strife and
argument. Through the voice of its gov-
ernor, the state of Mississippi begs that
the bodies of Lee and Jackson be moved
from “Republican” Virginia to “Demo-
cratic’ Mississippi. It is hardly sensible
to presume that the spirits of those two
great men are perturbed at the thought of
a conscientious vote by the people of their
native state. Lee, although an officer in
the Union army and in spite of the fact
that he had freed his slaves, nevertheless
cast his lot with his state, believing in its
sound political judgment and moral in-
tegrity. Jackson ever placed the emotions
of the conscience above other considera-
tions. In death as well as in life those
two great leaders woll remain true to their
state ,whatever political view she may
take.

ca ae * *
It is not news to any of the readers of
this column that Mt. Etna is in eruption
and that many Sicilians and Italians have
lost their lives. It is pleasing, however,
to note the spirit and pride with which the
destitute rally themselves to the task of
starting life over again. In their strange
conceit, they admit that Etna is a much
greater volcano than Vesuvius, and they
are proud of it. In connection with the
relief work, it must be admitted that it is
another procf of the efficientey of II

Duce, always calm and unperturbed.
* * *

Possible solutions ‘of some of the most
astounding of recent crimes have been
discovered by examiners and detectives.
Rothstein, famous gambler, is dead and
leaves a huge estate gained by questionable
yet unknown methods. Among his pos-
sessions have been found bonds of a par-
ticular issue which was known to have
been taken in a sensational robbery. It is
claimed that among his property, plunder
aggregating more than $5,000,000 has been
found which is known to have been stolen.
There are few honest gamblers; Roth-
stein was one of them. Yet even these
few seem unable to resist the temptation
to make “easy money” when the oppor-
tunity presents itself.
* * *

Honest fear and trepidation falls to the
lot of the Arab, who rides his camel in
the Sahara. Dwight Braman, engineer. of
New York, has presented a plan to re-
claim a large portion of that great desert.
By digging a few canals from the Medi-
terranean Sea into the heart of the great
sand dunes, a large expanse will be cov-
ered with water. This will open up navi-
gation ways and will make the country
more productive. But the flowing burnoos
will be replaced by the overcoat, for the
evaporation will cause a considerable de-
crease in temperature. Man abhors a
change but can adapt himself to anything.

OPEN FORUM
WAS IT WORTH IT?

Mr. Editor:

Dear “Ed’—

Is the joy, the bliss, the thrill of a
tender kiss worth the price of three hours’
time, two “cokes,” one pack of “Luckies”
and the gargle of Listerine one must pay?
Or is lingering ecstacy of a clinging em-
brace a worthy compensation for the lies,
the sleepless night, the efforts and the
powdered coat-lapel [

I am a senior and like all other men of
the class am certain that a diploma shall
be mine in June and the presidential chair
a’few years later: I have dated one girl
steadily since my entrance into the Uni-
versity. And looking at it in a cold-blood-
ed, economical way—was it worth the
price? ‘

My staistics on the matter show: 2,578
hours lost on dates, 1,649 miles traveled
to and from them, 17,893 hours of fost
sleep, 236 bottles of Listerine gargled,

3,479 “cokes” purchased, 14 girls “rush-

Hotchpot

By W. K. Pritchett

By Dave

WANTON WILES

Anderson

Some of the events of the World War
which a rigorous censorship succeeded in
concealing at the time now are being made
known or are coming into discussion in
various ways. For instance, it was never
announced in the communiques at the time
that on April 3, 1916, a German shell land-
ed on a food supply storehouse at Verdun
where 375 French infantrymen were quar-
tered, and burned the building and all the
soldiers in it. Such a story would have
been disastrous to “morale.” A similar
disaster that was never revealed until
after the war was the explosion of a
powder factory near Naples. It cost the
lives of hundreds of workmen. The cen-
sor forbade any mention of the explosion.
General, Gallenni, in his memoirs, relates
the story of a troop train laden with men
on the way to the Italian front that ran
off the rails in the Alps and plunged down
a ravine. Five hundred soldiers were
killed. No one outside of official circles
knew about it until long afterwards. Gen-
eral Ludendorff tells of one classic ex-
ample that occurred at Nancy. The city
was being shelled by German long-range
guns. Since the Germans had no means
of knowing whether their range was cor-
rect, the censor forbade any mention of
the spots where the shells fell in the city.
Numerous persons were killed and their
relatives placed funeral notices in the pa-
pers. There were whole columns of no-
tices announcing the sudden deaths of
various persons, all of whom appeared to
have been living in the same part of the
city. It was an easy matter for the Ger-
man intelligence service to deduce that the
long-range guns were effective.

“One’ reason why modern woman is ad-
vacing she no longer conceals her person-
ality,” cites a woman writer in a current
magazine: Jess so, jess so!

The chief of police of Constantinople
has given an impetus to taxicab petting
parties, one of the phenomena of the re-
cent emancipation of Turkish women. All
taxi drivers have been ordered to remove
the mirrors which they have been fasten-
ing on the inside of their windshields and
with which they could watch their pas-
sengers. The chauffeurs have become so
absorbed in watching back-seat. occupants
that the number of traffic accidents has
increased by leaps and bounds.

The chauffeurs pleaded that the mirrors
were needed against passengers who have
a habit of jumping out and running away
without paying their fare and also against
bandit clients.

Two and a half tons of elephant meat
went begging in the Idaho city which tried
to dispose of the carcass of the animal,
shot which it ran amuck. Undoubtedly
few democrats resided there.

The lack of an authoritative dictionary
of national biography has often been
deplored by American scholars. To
supply this need the American Coun-
cil Learned Societies has under-
taken the publication of a Dictionary of
American Biography with Dr. Allen
Johnson, former Professor of History at
Yale, as editor-in-chief. The publication
of the first of the twenty volumes of the
monumental work was announced Sunday.
This first volume, the work of three years,
includes the biographies of 660: persons in
alphabetical order from C, Abbe, scientist,
to M. Barrymore, actor.’ Such men as C.
A. Arthur, President of the United
States; A. C. Anson, baseball player; P.
D, Armour, meat packer; John Alden, a
Mayflower Pilgrim, and G. Bancroft, his-
torian, are included in the number. The
complete set will embrace about 15,000
lives, related in a total of something like
12,000,000 words. “It is a pantheon of
our democracy.”

of

“Hey, mister, your back wheel’s going
forward.”

“That's all right, buddy ; I’m on my re-
turn trip.’—Grinnell Malteasen.

Modern Girl (phoning home at 3:00 a.
m)5: “Don’t worry about me, Mother.
I'm all right; I’m in jail.”

“What is an oyster ?”
“It’s a fish built like a nut.”

ed,” 56,837 hairpons recovered and her
brother bailed out of jail four times.-

On the other side of the sheet my data
shows the receipt of 73 heart-rendings,
and 18,439 indifferent kisses, 19,511 tender
embraces, chronic insomnia and the loss
of a good fraternity pin.

If my efforts and money expended on
the quest could have been utilized I could
have played 1,378 games of poker, lost
$7,652, would have been somewhere be-
tween Black Rock and Big Stick, Wyom-
ing, with seven more years to my life and
would have cured 23,646 cases of halitosis,
bought 27,923 packs of cigarettes or nine
carloads of the best rock candy. I ask
you “Ed’—was it worth it? —C. H.

—__—

“The hradships of a columnist are
what we would have said, if gifted w

sidering the shame and ignominy whic

printed for public consumption. If all

a genius of the first order, grade XXX.
And another thing we have to endu

week’s waste-basket supply we found tl
First Thug—“Who was that I seen

And this too: .
“Did you know that if all the -__

Don’t get us wréng. We appreciat
For the conservation of typewriter

2.

contribution passes us, it will not be he
3. Do not mention ----, make any

words --__, indulge in ____ etc’, ete.

4. By all means, try to say somethi

innocent collegiate.
“Making noise,’
Band.

cunningly replied

are many things which tax our patience.
this job is that this column is judged, not by what we write, but by what is

cellent, many fair, quite a few poor, and innumerable ones rotten.

reach from -__- to ---. and would be worth

The Absent-minded Husband Goes Shopping

—Boston Beanpot.

more numerous than corns on a centi-

pede,” says B. U. L. Lotts, krazy kolumnist of Whiz Bang. Just exactly

ith the ability to harness our fleeting

thoughts and to store them up for posterity in expressive words. Not con-

h are attached to the profession, there
For instance: the saddest part of

owed to run a column parallel to this

one entitled “What the Censor Cuts,” we could quickly establish ourselves as

ire: contributions! Some few are ex-
In this
he following:

you with last night?”

Second College Grad—‘That was no lady—that was my wife,

were placed side by side, they would

e contributions, provided.
paper, we are printing the following

rules to govern the preparation and submitting of BULLS’

WHAT TO WRITE ABOUT
1. Write about three pages to make sure you have something accepted. -
Mention, favorably, the Editor-in-Chief, so if, by any chance, said

Id up at the main office.

degrading remarks about _-__, use the
For further reference see regulations

concerning college publications posted in Davidsonian office.

ng funny.

“And what's your racquet?” inquired the gentleman from Chicago of an

the member of the Davidson College

| Contemporary Thought |

THE SIN OF DIFFERENCE

The Dartmouth: To be different is to
lead, or to be shunned.

There is no middle ground for the
group's limits in any respect, physical,
mental or moral.

At Dartmouth you are a leader of stu-
dent opinion, which means that a few
persons agree with you, if you retain a
positive percentage of your identity with
mediocrity and differ only in the trivial
and momentary whimsies of the crowd.

You are a pariah if you dare to differ
in too many things. People invariably
seem to trust and respect someone who is
their breed and yet a little bit, not too
much, different from the majority. They
shun those in whom the common ties are
infrequent if existent at all.

Accordingly the campus ideal is keyed
to mediocrity. The best fraternity man is
invariably the one on whom most people
can agree. Perhaps this is the reason
why so many of the campus big shots
achieve only an indifferent success after
college, while those who remained in com-
parative obscurity during undergraduate
days are reported to achieve dazzling suc-
cess in the “world.”

For those sohomores who do not make
a fraternity the way to rationalization is
easy. It can be argued with every degree
of justification that the individual who is
shuffled out of the Greek deck, in reality
possesses ‘those qualities supposedly place
the premium upon the true criteria of
which will win him success in other en-
vironments, which character.

This may be so, for the college world is
renowned for a distorted, if not inaccurate,
outlook on life. But the road of such ra-
tionalization is a hard one to follow even
if the route is clear. Social pressure, the
ever-present fear of covert sneers behind
your back, will soften wills:and result in
more tragedies.

Verily the gods smile on those who are

‘"born in the image of all men.

THIS COLLEGE LIFE

Wabash Bachelor: The push and
press of ordinary life has more than
invaded college life in America: it has
permeated it. Education that was once
considered the slow deliberate assim-
ulation of knowledge and the thought-
ful reflection of things great by stu-
dents of the colle gone. Now all
is hustle and bustle, and may the best
man win. It is very sad.

Education, the original purpose of
colleges and universities, has been
delegated to a back seat in student
life, while campus activities and
athletic contests hog the show. The
swirl of events in the daily life at
college keep the student in an endless
turmoil. Possibility of reflection is
nil and void. All is dumped into one
mad whirl, and a scurrying and hur-
tying does.nothing more than produce
a headache and an outside chance for
a diploma.

Duty to college and organization,
and insane pride in college accom-
plishments leads on the weary worker
to yet greater efforts. Work taken on,
has been shouldered for the honor of
self and fraternity or club. Therecan
be no ‘giving up. Scorn accompanies
the failure to perform a duty, just as
foolish adulation goes hand in hand
with. success. And the college man
who lays down a task too burdensome
is slated as a slacker and a washout,
while the one who fights his way hel-
ter skelter through four years, and
grasps his sheepskin in bewilderment
is accorded the acclaims of the multi-
tude.

And so foolish daily tread the path
of hardship little knowing their di-
rection. Education and scholarship has
been discarded for a brighter, but less
lasting raiment. Honors and_ the
plaudits of the crowd draw them on,
while the price of failure prods them.
from behind. They stumble on and
through their college course and later
grimly wonder why they went.

It is very sad.

