THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

|-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

So far as home games’are concerned, the
1927-28 basketball season is closed. The
Wildcats played their last game of the year
on the home court last Thursday when they-
met the team from Lenoir-Rhyne. They
leave Friday on the Southern trip and meet
the Citadel on Friday night, return from the
Southern trip the latter part of next week,
stay here for two or three days, and then
leave for a trip to the North for three or
four days. The season thus far has not been
as disastrous as it might have been, but we
hope that the results of the games to he

played on the trip will be an improvement,
nevertheless.

The Wildcats showed better form in their
game with Elon last Saturday than they have
shown in several games past. McAulay, es-
pecially, seemed to be going good, and
“found the basket” without much trouble.
His two or three fairly long shots near the
last of the game gave the Wildcats a lead
which cinched the game for them. The boys
from Elon had a good team, and at times
were in thé lead, ‘but the final rally of the
Wildcats and their accurate shooting near

the end of the game were too much for
them.

Neuman, one of the forwards for the vis-
itors, was’ high-point man of the game. He
handled the ball well and seemed to be an
unusually good player. Captain Wilson ran
a close second in the numberof points-scored
with 13 chalked up to his credit. Pritchett
scored 10 of the remaining points, and Har-
rison, though he scored only two points, did
some unusally fast and furious floor work
and as usual was one of the mainstays.

The Tar Heels from Chapel Hill beat us
in football and we didn't get a game with
them in basketball, but they were forced to
bow to a superior Davidson team Saturday
afternoon in the form of the Wildcat grap-
pling team. The Wildcats won four of the
seven matches and one of them was a draw,
the Tar Heels taking only the 135 pound
class match. That the meet was unusually
good is evidenced by the fact that all the
matches were won on time decisions except

the one in the 145 pound class, which was a
draw. :

By far the outstanding match of the after-
noon was the battle in the 145 pound class
between Captain Abbott, of the Carolina
team, and Captain Garrison, of the David-
son team, the one one match which ended in
a draw after the extra period had been al-
lowed. Neither of these men had ever been
thrown before Saturday’s match, and’ neither
of them had to give up the right to say this
at the end of the match. Captain Garrison,
however, missed getting a time decision on
his opponent by, only 11 seconds, the first re-
port that this difference was only one second
being false. Sport writers have not deemed
wrestling an important enough sport to pick
an all-state wrestling team in the past, but

should this be done this year, our bet is that |

the Wildcats would supply the 145 pound

Davidson Grapplers to
~~ Invade Va. Next Week

Will Meet V. M. I. and Washington
and Lee

Captain Jeff Garrison and his wrestling
team who emerged victorious over the
University’‘of North Carolina matmen last
Saturday will invade the state of Vir-
ginia next week where they will meet V.
M. I. and Washington and Lee in Lex-
ington.

The team will leave Davidson early next
Friday morning and will arrive in Lex-
ington that afternoon in time for a work-

out. The following night the team
wrestles V. M., I. On Monday night,
February .13, the Wildcats will meet

Washington and Lee and will probably
return to Davidson Tuesday afternoon.

The meet with William and Mary has
been. cancelled because Davidson would
not agree to go to Williamsburg for a re-
turn match next year.

The Wildcat matmen will meet strong
opposition at V. M. I. since the cadets
held William and Mary scoreless in a
recent match. V. M.I. have good men in
light weight, the 135 pound and in the
heavy weight classes.

The same men who wrestled against
Carolina will probably be used against
V. M. I. and W. and L. The weights are
as follows: r115tb class, Flythe; 12stb
class, Brown; 135th class, Herriot; 145tb
class, Garrison; 158tb class, Christenbury
or Brohard; 175tb class, Tom Hill; unlim-
ited, Baker.

| The meet against Carolina was a close
| one, practically every match going to an
extra peftiod. Every man had tag fight
hard for! the advantage. Flythe, Brown,

while Garrison tied with his opponent.
The final score was: Davidson 13 1-2,

Carolina 7 1-2, z

man for the team by an almost unanimous
vote.

With the close, or near close of the bas-
ketball season, interest is beginning to turn
toward baseball and track. The track and
baseball stars and others who hope to be
stars in the future will be starting their
work-outs in a few days, and the athletic
field which has been rather dead except for
spring football and an occasional campus
football game since last fall, will again be-
:come the center of interest on the campus
| during the afternoons. The pitchers will
| begin their work-outs in a few days and
then it won't be long till the whole team will

be out and rounding into shape for its first
| game on March 23rd.

Our Great January

Clearance

and Overcoats now

in progress

- MELLON’S.

Charlotte. N. C.

of Suits

Christenbury, and Hill won their matches

the

Wildcat Quintet Leaves
Tomorrow on Southern
Trip to Play Five Games

First Game to be With the Citadel
PLAY FIVE GAMES

College of Charleston, Clemson,
Furman and Wofford Will Also
be Met

Captain Ben Wilson and his Wildcat
basketeers leave tomorrow afternoon for
an extended trip through South Carolina.
They will travel through the country in
automobiles instead of going by train
as usual. On this trip, the Wildcats will
play The Citadel, College of Charleston,
Clemson, Furman, and Wofford.

On Saturday night, February 11, the
team will play the basketball team from
The Citadel. Last year, on the trip
through South Carolina, The Citadel was
played twice, and Davidson lost both
games by narrow margins. Both teams
have lost several regulars from last year,
and it is certain that the affair will be
keenly contested from start to finish.
The Citadel has alréady made made quite
a name for itself this year by defeating
the fast Furman team by a score of 41-32.

The team will spend the week-end in
Charleston, and will play the College of
Charleston on Monday, February 13.
Last year when the College of Charleston
was played, the Wildcats defeated them
by a decisive’ score.

From Charleston, the Wildcats journey
to Clemson College, where they take on
the ferocious Tiger in his.home lair. The
Clemson team is somewhat an unknown
quantity, since they have not been play-
ed by Davidson in several years. Judging
from their regord so far this year, how-
ever, Captain Wilson's charges will have
to play heads-up ball to defeat them.

On Thursday night, February 16, the
Davidson basketeers will play the Fur-
man Purple Hurricane in Greenville. Fur-
man has not been played in several years,
but they always put out an A-1 basket-
ball. team. Coach “Monk” however,
knows a thing or two about Purple Hur-
ricanes, and it is hoped that his charges
will turn the Hurricane into a gentle
breeze.

From Greenville, a jump will be made
to Spartanburg where the Wildcat bask-
et team plays the Wofford Terriers. More
is known about this team than the others
to be played since{Wofford was played at
Davidson recently, Although the Wild-
cats defeated Wofford, considerable re-
spect will have to be shown to the shoot-
ing ability of the members of the team,
since it will be remembered that they
have several dangerous shots on the team.

Davidson Freshmen
Defeat Barium Team

In a very exciting match held at the
gymnasium Monday night, the grapplers
from Barium Springs bowed in defeat to
the Davidscn Freshmen team. The yisi-
tors taking an early lead won two of the
first three matches by falls. But the
Freshmen showing a reversal of form,
came back strong with the fourth bout,
and forged ahead to win by a 16 to 10
score,

The feature match of the evening, in
the 145 pound class, was between Estridge
of Davidson and Murrel of Barium, pe-
cular interest was exhibited as to the out-
come of the match. The Davidson boy,
throwing his opponent with lightning
speed won his match by a thrilling fall
in 15 seconds.

Two of the matches resulting in time
‘decisions were both won by Davidson.

Below is given’ a tabulation of the
bouts : :

118tb class—Donaldson (B. S.) won by
a fall over MacKethan (D)

over King (B. S.)
-135!b: class—Brown (B. S.) won over
Doduck (D) by a fall. ‘
145!b class—Estridge (D) threw Mur-

“|rett (B.S) _

125tb class—Preston (D) wo non time}

Wildkittens Elect
Baseball Captain

Goodson, running guard of the Wild-
kitten basketball five, has been chosen
to captain the team: forthe present sea-
son. Goodson hails from Lincolnton. He
has played very consistent basketball so
| far and seems to be one of the real stars
|of the team. Goodson is tall and lanky,
| very fast on his feet, and an excellent
|shot under the basket. His playing in the
Oak Ridge game was of the highest type,
and he gives great promise as varsity ma-
terial.

Dean Rusk and Goodson were in the
running for the captaincy at the election
held last Monday afternon. The first
ballot resulted in a tie, but Goodson final-
ly won out by a close margin. Captain
Goodson leads his basketeers against the
Statesville Athletic Club ‘early this week,

158tb class—Umphlet (D) threw Proc-
ter (B. S.)

175tb class—Covington
time Lee( B. S.)

Final score: Davidson Freshmen 16;
Barium Springs 10,

Who is the

(D) won on

box at

The winner

and he will

Name

Boy On the Campus?

The White Drug Co. is Going to Try
to Decide This

Below is a blank. Fill in
the blank with your prefer-
ence and drop in the ballot-

THE “*DRUG STORE”

nounced Friday, Feb. 17,

with a five-pound box of
candy. Choose your man.

FRESH WRESTLERS DOWN
. SQUAD OF REYNOLDS HIGH

Wildkittens Win by Score of 17 to 11

In the wrestling match between the
Richard J. Reynolds High School team,
of Winston-Salem, and the Davidson
Freshmen, last Wednesday, February 1,
the final score was 17-11, with the big
side for Davidson. Seven men wrestled
for Davidson. Preston, McKeethan, and
Boyles won their matches on a fall in
each case. Umphlet won his match with
Plaster on time. Doduck lost his match
on a fall, and, Estridge and Covington
lost their matches on time.

Three of the matches went to an extra
period and Estridge was beaten only by
the extra time of fifteen seconds, in his
match with Sprinkle. However, the fact
that the Davidson team showed good form
all the way through is shown from both
the firial score and the fact that the
extra period was added in three matches.

The Winston team is one with quite
a reputation among the high school teams
of the state and is noted for doing good
work in matches with college fresh teams.
In their match with:the Carolina fresh-
men, the Carolina team hardly could hold
them down to the narrow score that re-
sulted. It was the second match for the
Davidson team and they are reported by
spectators to have increased in ability
and form at a splendid rate since the first
match of the season with Barium Springs.

and then the team hits the road for a trip
through the state.

Most Popular

will be an-

be presented

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Charlotte, N. C.

Has stood the test of time
banking needs.

Government.

"The Commercial National Bank

and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Make us your Executor. :

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS | aij ‘ }
r R. A. DUNN? President 1. W. STEWART, end Ti
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J.B. DOAR, leaped —
A. T. SUMMEBY, Vice-President TA

Founded 1874

