THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

=

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS WIN

.(Continued from page 1)
throwing Baker of Davidson in 4 minutes
and 19 seconds. Culp as southern inter-
collegiate champion was defending his
title for the last time in his college career

In the State encounter, Davidson was
easily victor, winning four of the seven
matches by time decisions, one by a fall,
and losing only one match by a time de-
cision and one, by a forfeit. Hill, of Da-
vidson secured the only fall of the entire
match, throwing his man in the extra
period. In the final battle of the meet,
Baker of Davidson was knocked uncon-
scious during the first period, and being
unable to resume the encounter, his match
was forfeited.

Davidson-Duke

Summary:

118tb class—Applewhite of Duke got a
time decision over Flythe of Davidson, of
4 minutes, 38 seconds.

128tb class—Goode of Duke got a time
decision over .Brown of Davidson, of 5
minutes, 22 seconds,

138tb class—Starnes of Duke got a time
decision over Herriot of Davidson, of 6
minutes, 34 seconds.

148tb class—Captain Garrison of David-

son got a time decision over Jennings of

Duke, of 2 minutes, 19 seconds.

161tb class—Cole of Duke got a time de-
cision over Christenbury of Davidson, of
9 minutes, 16 seconds.

175!b class—Jones of Duke got a time

+ decision over Hill of Davidson, of 8 min-

utes, 59 seconds,
Unlimited class—Captain Culp of Duke
ithrew Baker in 4 minutes, 19 seconds.
Davidson-N. C. State

118th class—Flythe of Davidson got a
time decision over Hobbs of State: Extra
period.

128tb class—Brown of Davidson got a
time decision over Bell of State. No ex-
tra period.

138tb class—Herriot of Davidson got a
time decision over Frisbie of State. Ex-
tra period.

148tb class—Garrison of Davidson got a
time decision over Moore of State. No
extra period.

161tb class—Choplin of State got atime
decision over Christenbury of Davidson.
No extra period.

175tb class—Hill of Davidson won by a
fall over Day of State. Extra period.

Unlimited class—Morris of State won
over Baker of Davidson by a forfeit.

Davidson

Clara Bow in

“Partners

MONDAY and TUESDAY

WEDNESDAY
Eleanor Boardman in “The Crowd”

THURSDAY
Wallace Beery and Raymond Hatten in

FRIDAY
Harold Bell Wright’s “Shepherd of the Hills

SATURDAY
Zane Grey’s ‘Under Loato’s Rim”
Based on his latest book

Theatre

“Ried Hair”

in Crime”

This is the
eighth ofa
series of
Advertisements 4

If You
Are Going to be a. Preacher. :

-no attempt to do so.

JAKE WADE

(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Wade did not point such a brilliant
picture of the reporters’s financial life. He
stated that formerly the reporter was very
poorly paid, but that gradually the editors
have begun to realize that the reporter who
has received three square meals does the
best work.

-One of the high notes of Wade’s speech
came when he asserted that the newspaper
man must be honest. He said that one is
continually beset by two classes of people,
the one who demands why he didn’t publish
something, and the other who asks why he
did. The journalist cannot please every one
and the successful newspaper man makes

NOTED SWISS WRITER

(Continued from page 1)
“Near the Snows and Glaciers,” “Under the
Flag,” “Frontier Sketches,” and “The Cross
on the Matterhorn.” ,

M. Gos is now making his third trip to
the United States, partly as the representa-
tive of his father at the Museums now ex-
hibiting the paintings of Albert Gos, partly
as a lecturer. He is visiting most of the im-
portant cities in the United States, under
the auspices of the Institute of Interna-
tional Education in New York City and of
the Alliance Francaise (of which the French
Ambassador to the United States, Paul
Claudel, is -honorary president). During his
stay ih this ‘country, M. Goss is sending to
the “Journel de Geneve” articles on various
aspects of American life that are attracting
wide attention.

There is no admission charge to the lec-
ture, townspeople and students alike being
cordially invited.

Announcement is made from the French
department that the organization of a Cercle
Francais is under consideration. Further
particulars are not available at this time,
but this organization will serve in its field
the same purpose as the already existing
Spanish Club, .

Wilson (12) ---~------------ Werber (9)
Center Rasen
Harrison (9) -------------- * Chandler (13)
Guard
Hewlett (2) : Farley (4)
Guard
McAulay (1) ~--------------- Weaver (2)
Baker Roger (4)
Crawford cine -- Bennett
Brummit

Referee, Knight; score at end of half:
D. C.; 21; Duke, 21.

Davidson (30) Position Guilford (27)
KUgES CocccleJeccueeoccuees Haworth (5)
Forward
Pritchett (9) -...---222- 2. - Griffin (2)
Forward
Wilson (11) -------------- Moore (c) (9)
Center
Hafrisot: occ cccuauesucus Marshall (7)
Guard
Hewlett wi ccveGecatesccs coe Coltrane (2)
Guard
McAulay (10) ~--------------- Coble (2)

Referee, Spencer; score at end of half:
D. C. 15! Guilford, 13. |

FORTY DAVIDSON SONGSTERS

(Continued from page 1)

Several changes have been made in the
program and new selections for the chorus
have been added, Ed. Wilson, star soloist,
will not accompany the club, but a violin solo
by Charles Orr is an added attraction to the
program.

Ed. Douglas reports other engagements for
the clttb are to be filled next month, includ-
ing appearances at the Carolina Theater
Theater on March 12th, 13th and 14th. En-
gagements at Badin, Converse, and Montreat,
N. C., have also been arranged.

HONOR COURSES

(Continued from page one)

“The purpose of Group Honors is to
arouse interest in a higher grade of intel-
lectual achievement; to develop on the part
of the student of initiative the power of in-
dependent investigation and crtical and con-

|
CAT QUINTET WINS

(Continued from page 1)
Kugler (4) Councilor (11)

Forward

Pritchett (5) Jankoski (8)

structive scholarship; to offer to him the op-
portunity to pursue his chosen study as rap-
idly as his talents permit, and to deal with
the content of a field of learning rather than
with courses.” Any student wh@ in his
Freshman year has averaged 85 or better, and
90 or better during his Sophomore year up
to and including the mid-semester grades of
the second semester will be eligible for Hon-
ors Courses, provided the professor in that
subject thinks that the student has sufficient
background to take on additional work.
Honors students shall in their Junior and
Senior year carry nine hours of regular class
work besides their special honors work.

For

Heating and Plumbing

Contractor of

Nearly every branch of work is included in
the proposed Honors Groups.

The adoption of this system, based funda-
mentally upon the method used at Oxford
University, has become somewhat of a gen-
eral thing in recent years. Outstanding col-
leges throughout the land have taken it up
as an essential step in the true education of
their men. Davidson is taking a distinctive
step forward in adopting the system of Hon
ors Courses, and it is thought that the plan
so universally successful will be well receiv-
ed here, and will do much to make Davidson
an even better institution of learning. A
few of the prominent institutions to adopt
the Honors Course Method are: Swarth-
more, Princeton, Amherst, Cornell, Colum-
bia, Duke Emory, North Carolina, John
Hopkins, California, Yale, and Harvard.

FRESH DEBATE

The subject for the debate pre-
liminaries for the Freshmen has
been changed to: “Resolved, That
Congress should enact the McNary-
Haugen Bill.” Material on this sub-
ject can be found in the library.

Jewelry Salesman
Victim of 1 of Burglary

Jewelry tothe amount of $1,800 was

stolen from the Kappa Sigma house last

Thursday night. A salesman for the L, G.

Balfour Co., of Attleboro, Mass., was here
in the interest of his company and after
showing his samples went to this house
to spend the night.

Leaving his sample cases in one of the
front rooms, he retired and on looking
the’ next morning a quantity of jewelry
was found fo be missing. The time of
the robbery was between 12:30 and 7:30
o'clock.

In the list of pins, rings, etc.. reported
lost, there were twenty rings, watch
chains, two slabs of fraternity pins and
other valuables. Local authorities were
notified and detectives from the Burns
Detective Agency have taken the case in
charge. No clues have been found yet,
according to the workers.

| Since 1868
the Home of Good Shoes

For
Young Men

Only

Oné of the snappiest models

You Will Find Union Seminary an
Institution Which Has Trained Men
for Many kinds of Service IN OUR
HOME LAND.

Preachers and Pastors—They have preached everywhere, more than two thousand of
of them. Scarcely a church in the General Assembly has not been served in the pastorate
by at least one of them. They have served in mining towns, lumber camps, and oil fields,
as well*as in the country village churches and the large city pastorates—such men as
Stuart Robinson, Moses D. Hoge and Abner C. Hopkins.

Rare Excellence

for young men you have

Sax ever seen---a good, corking,

Elliott & Byers

Phone 78-W

comfortable, long wearing
Oxford that any young fel-
At only

low would ‘like.

$6

ASK TO SEE IT!

Home Missionaries—They have extended the frontiers of the church as missionaries in
the home land for more than a century, beginning at a time when the frontier was not far
from the Atlantic Ocean—such were Edward O. Guerrant and Edgar Tufts.

Evangelists—Thousands of souls have been born into the Kingdom, the fruit of the
labors of self-denying evangelists who received their impulse at Union Seminary. Daniel
Baker did an enormous work as pioneer Evangelist.

FELLOW S!

You'll always find a well-

Authors—Union Seminary’s founder was a man of books, and many of its students
were writers of books. ‘The thought of the Church has been profounly affected by some
of these—like R. L. Dabney, T. E. Peck, W. W. Moore.

Editors—The editors of our three church papers were trained at Union Seminary.
There have been many others—such as James P. Smith, T. E. Converse, A. J. McKelway.

Teachers and Founders of Schools—Schcols of all grades by dozens have been founded
and taught by graduates of Union Seminary, and it has. supplied professors and presi-
dents to many colleges and universities. William Henry Ruffner, founder of the public
schools of Virginia, and James B. Shearer, builder of Southwestern and Davidson, were
graduates of this Seminary.

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

Gilmer-Moore Co.

Charlotte, N. C.
LUGGAGE

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C. aHor®.

Professors of Theology—In the faculty of every theological seminary of our Church at
home and in the foreign field are to be found professors who were well trained in Union
Seminary. G. B. Strickler and Theron H. Rice received their training here.

Catalogue and information on request~

CITY DRY CLEANERS

W. L. HOBBS, Prop.

MOORESVILLE, N. C. |
Represented by

Union Theological aagiial

B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND: VIRGINIA |

Neely and wey, 108 West
Will Call on You Monday and Thursday Nights.

Six for Five
We Strive to Please

