2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

-¢ Sport Talk -:-|

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Judging from past actions taken by
the National Football Rules Committee,
the rules determining what is perwissable
and what is not in a game of what is
known as the king of college sports, will
never be finally settled. Each year this
committee meets, apparently with the
understanding that it will not disband un-
til some change or changes have been
made in the rules for playing the game.

Freshmen Lose by One
Point to Charlotte High

The Davidson fresh baskeeters suffered
their second defeat of the week last
Thursday night, at the hands of Charlotte
High, Charlotte winning out by one
point, 23 to 22, The freshmen having
been downed by the Statesville Athletic

; ub on the preceding Monday, 18 ¥6.
held at the Seaview Golf Club at Absecon, Club ot ‘the preceding Monday, Ms
; ; The two teams were about evenly
N. J., and three comparatively minor and ' : ;
te iaeee ; matched, both in speed and in floor work,
insignificant changes were made in the

; and the game was the fastest played on
1927 rules | ; 3
927. Tes. to. govern the game-in--1928 ithe Charlotte High floor this year.

These changes were printed recently in| x
the newspapers, but for those who missed At the end of the first half the Kittens
were leading by a score of 10 to 9. Dur-

them there (if such there be among the] |
two or three who occasionally read por-| in& the second half the score seesawed
back and forth, as it had done in the first

tions of this column) we will reprint them eather

here. “Two of the three changes made half, Charlotte being in the lead the great-

those regarding the lateral pass and the|° Part of the time. Toward the end of

muffled punt, represented a compromise the half, however, the Wildkittens were
again in the lead by a one point margin,

with the opinion of a majority of football R A
coaches who, at their December meeting and it appeared like the freshmen had a
victory in their grasp until the last couple

went on record as favoring a return to A
the! 1026 code oho these points,” says the of seconds of play, when the winning goal

report from the committee meeting,

The meeting for this year was rently

The three changes made provide as
follows: (1) That a lateral pass or a
backward pass must be tossed at least
two yards to be classed as such, and that
it may be recovered by the the defensive
side if grounded, but not advanced, thus
doing away with the protection afforded
under the rules last year to hidden ball

and other trick passes behind the scrim-
mage line,

and checking to screen the pass received
by players who themselves are’ not
eligible to receive the pass,

Most of our space this week has been
taken up with news of the changes in the
football rules for 1928, and perhaps it is
just as well or even better this way since
the Wildcats have been coming out on
the bottom of the score in the basket-
ball’ games and also in the wrestling
matches which have been held since this
paper came out last week, and it is al-
ways easier to omit the games in which
the home team loses rather than to make
comments on them. The Wildcat basket-
ball team got a bad start on its trip. last
Saturday when it lost to the strong team
at the Citadel by the score of 39 to 30.
The wrestlers also got a bad start by
losing to the team at V. M. I.

Who Will It Be?

Tomorrow, February 17, the con-
test put on by the White Drug
Co. will come to a close and the
winner will be awarded with a
five pound box of candy.

(2) That either a muff or funtble of a
punt may be recovered by the kicking

side, but not advanced beyond the kick-
ing side;

(3) That no player of the side makinga
forward pass who has crossed the line of
scrimmage may interfere with an oppo-
nent until the ball has been touched,
thereby doing away with what the com-
mittee believes has been unfair blocking

Have you cast your vote yet?
The time is near at hand so be
sure to drop by the “Drug Store”
before tomorrow at 6 P. M. and
cast your vote for whom you
think is the most popular man
on the campus. Be sure to name
your man.

Name

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

x

Coaches to Choose Red

and Black Teams Soon

These Two Teams to Scrimmage
Each Week

Spring football practice is in full swing
at the present time, although several of
the afternoon practices have been missed
because of bad weather. Coaches Monk
and Tex have both been rather handicap-
ped by the fact that they are each coach-
ing another sport at the same time. Coach
Monk has charge of the basketball squad,
whileText is handling the wrestling team.
However, they are taking as much time as
the are able to spare from their other
sports in order that they may have more
time to whip the candidates into shape,
and form a nucleus around which they
can build the Red and Black machine of
next fall.

In a short while, the players will be di-

vided into two groups, the Reds, and the
Blacks. These two teams will scrimmage
each other practically every Saturday
afternoon until spring practice is over.
The coaches have divided the men up in
this way in order to stir up friendly
rivalry between the members of the op-
posing teams, and also as an incentive to
more and harder work from all the men
out for positions—on the team. ~The
coaches have been running the candidates
through the various forms of work which
comprise the everyday routine of prac-
tice for the team, such as kicking, passing,
blocking, and scrimmaging.
‘In the near future many of the men out
for the team will have to report for other
sports. Track practice has already start-
ed, and baseball practice will begin in the
next few weeks, and all those men out
for spring football who are interested in
these two sports will have to answer the
call for them.

Wildcats and Wildcat supporters have
reason to be proud of many of the alumni
of Davidson, but to our knowledge there
is only one who has had the distinction of
bein sought after by the big leaguers.
being sought after by the big leaguers.
here at Davidson, has long been recog-
nized as a baseball player of no mean
ability. Several months ago the news
that he had been offered a place with the
New York Giants leaked out, and then
later the news that he had declined the
offer and would not enter the big leagues.
During the last week, however, the news
that Pat went to New York and conferred
with John McGraw, manager of the
giants, and finally agreed to. try out with
them for a week this spring and then ac-
cept a place with them if they think he
is big league material, has been given
out. Pat is at present coach at Guilford
College and will finish out his contract
there which holds him till the close of the
present school year.

was thrown by Thompson, a substitute
forward of Charlotte.

McCall played the best game for the
Kittens, scoring eight of the twenty-two
points, vieing for high scoring honors
with McCachren, of Charlotte. Mc-
Cachren and Johnson, of Charlotte, play-
ed the best game for the high school
team,

This week the fresh will be on the road
from Tuesday until Saturday. On Tues-
day night they will play the fast -Oak
Ridge quintet in an effort to avenge the
defeat handed them by the latter team
earlier in-the season. On Wednesday the
Wake Forest Freshmen, who also de-
feated the freshmen earlier in the year
will be played. The State freshmen will
be met on Thursday and on Friday night
the freshmen will meet the Duke fresh-
men at Durham.

The lineup and summery:

Davidson Charlotte High
McCall (8)_-_._- JSR CESS McCachren (8)
Rusk (6).-. FP... Johnson (6)
Wilson (2) Cc Reid (1)
Goodson (4) G Ward (6)
Proctor (2) (e} Johnson

| . Substitutions—Davidson : Overman, Mc-| |
Allister; Charlotte: Thompson’ (2);

Referee, Faul,

|

Chapel Hill Team Leads
State Basketball Fives

The University of North Carolina bas-
ketball team seems to have the best claim
to the State Championship of North Caro-
lina, by virtue of their win over Duke on
Saturday night. Carolina also has to her
credit victories over N. C. State, and Wake
Forest. They still have a game to be
played with each of these last two teams,
so the outcome of the race for State
honors is not assured as yet. Duke lays
claim to second place with wins over
Wake Forest, State, and Davidson.

Carolina not only holds the strongest
bid for the state crown, but also has a
very good showing as far as Southern
honors are concerned. This team has
started sixteen games this season so far,
and has emerged victorious from fifteen of
them, They have lost only to Tulane’s
“Green Wave.” Although they lost this
game, since then, they have defeated the
Tulane team twice, a stunt which in a
great way offsets the loss of the first
game.

INDIVIDUAL SCORES
PritChetticcuntucisccsacaccce cles 103
Wilson ----------------------.. 70
IMCGAUley, sactccuusuusloessostous 58
StarrisOt——s=-<scsaccasesccsctcc 38
Kugler ~------- Deh Tas bs Ae eo ea 32
Hewlette Seereobecseas se 27
Crawford ---- pene 7

Duke Matmen Down
Carolina Grapplers

The Duke University wrestling team
last Saturday defeated the matmen from
the University of North Carolina by a
score of 24 to 3. The team from Carolina
won the state championship in this sport
last year. Because of her recent victory,
many of the sport scribes, and authorities
all over the state are now ready to con-
cede Duke the 1928 championship in
wrestling, pointing out the fact that wihle
Davidson’s strong team only succeeded
in defeating the team from Carolina by
the close score of 13 1-2 to 7 1-2, the Duke
wrestlers defeated the same team with
comparative ease.

The only score which the Carolina mat-
men were able to make was the win of
Abbett, captain of the Carolina. team.
Captain Abbott has not lost a match dur-
ing the whole of his collegiate career,
and is generally considered by authorities
to be the best wrestler of his class in the
state. He won his match by. defeating

It is not new for Carolina to make a Warren of Duke on a time decision. Duke

strong bid for the Southern Conference

,ran up her score by three falls, and three

title. In the past six years, Carolina has | time decisions, Carolina winning the oth-

won four Conference titles. They have a
good team, a good record, and a good
chance to repeat their performances of
past years again this year when they play
in the Southern Conference Tourney
which is to be held in the near future in
Atlanta.

The men who will probably comprise
the squad when the team journeys to
Atlanta in the next few weeks are as
folows:

Forwards: Rufus Hackney, Henry Sat-
terfield, and Billy Vanstory.

Centers: Carr Purser, and Lacy Har-
per. ~ 4
Guards: Capt. Worth Morris, Bill Dad-!

derer, and Julius Fenner

MINISTERIAL CALL

(Continued from page 1)
sorry for his wrong doing, and His ser-
vants of today have the wonderful priv-
ilege of leading despairing men back to
the same forgiving Christ.

‘er match. The falls were registered for
| Duke by Applewhite, Cole, and Culp.

The Wildcat mat team, which is at pres-
ent on a trip through Virginia, will
wrestle the Duke grapplers at some time
during the latter part of this month, or
in the early part of next month.

Jesus should be just as vital in the life
of the business man as in that of the
preacher, He is the Eternal‘ Son of God
and happy is the man who has been called
by Him to help spread the Gospel.

SOPHS PLAN FETE
(Continued from page 1)

mittees.

The banquet it is stated, will be held
sometime during the first part of March.
This banquet is held every year by the
sophomore class, at some roof-garden
or hotel in Charlotte. Last year the class
of ’29 staged their fete on the roof-garden
of the Johnson building.

of greys, tans

New! At Ffird’s
- Pro Golf Suits

Just arrived---Men’s Pro Golf
Suits of a knitted fabric, guar-
anteed weather proof, in colors

herringbone stripes---suits con-
sisting of coat, knickers and cap,

$25.00

Suits consisting of sweater,
knickers and caps---priced at

$21.50

and brown---in

