,

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

‘.

The Davidsonian

——————

Meisher of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
. Association

OUNDED BY CLASS OF "15
othe Livest Wire on the Hill”

hed Weekly hy the Students of

Davidson College

idson as Mail” Matter ot

Entered at the Post Office of Day

10 Centra per Copy: $2.90 the Collegiate Year

A'l Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
, Fditer hy 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
eve i at unknown anuires will not he published

_.... ..-Editor-in-Chief

VOR MARTIN “cuscncedccascnsassus
zo P. CRAWFORD ...... Business Manager
——- . oe ee a aD
EDITORIAL STAFF ae
N RROWN:3nsanne ----Managing iditor
W. K PRITCHETT . Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY Managing Editor
©. RB. WAKE cesses ..--Athletic Editor
R. A, WEESON _-.-...,.Feature Editor
WoL. LINGLE 2. _.aa-.---Associate Editor
F.C. WITHERS .... .-Associate Fditor
TT, JONG nisenmaces .-Associate Fditor
1. C. WADSWORTH ........----------------2- Alumni Editor
RC; GRADY: <a.25.5 _.......Exchange Editor
———S = — A ——
' BUSINESS STAFF
R. S ARFRNETHY...-...-.--- Assistant Business Manager
8. J. ALLISON.......- .--Assistant Business Manager
WwW. M. POWELL. ..-Assistant Business Manager
Yr Tt GARRISON... __..--.---- Subscription Manager
BK, 1 .....Cireulation Manager
Ss. ene enceen---------S0licitor
Ww. pyre | Solicitor
FE. H. McCALL....-...-.----4--- ..-.-Solicitor
Reporters’ Club
seusskuddasdscdenaataccuios President
}"" i A enrahee sail % Ne ee
GR AM isicsscoccccaccuutamneser Secretary-Treasurer
f rt RnR, W, McDERMID
W. LB W. _B. UREN
FE. T. EDF F. D.
FE. S. HEEFNER Vv. A. MILTON
M. K HENDERSON c, M. ATT.
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON ¢
Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

AGAIN “THE SAHARA”?

The South has again been held up in ride
cule before the entire nation as a result/of
the recent conflict on the Senate flodr’ be-
tween Senitors Heflin and Robinson, This
statement holds true despite the supposed
apology of Senator Heflin later in the week,

coming at the end of a two and a half hour f

tirade against the Roman Catholic Church
and all of its adherents. It was the con-
clusion of Senator Heflin’s first speech
which aroused waves of indignation
throughout the South, in which he chal-
lenged Senator Robinson to make the
speech in Alabama which he had made in the
Senate, asserting that he would be tarred
and feathered if he did so. The citizens of
Alabama and of the entire South were
righteously indignant at such a speech and
the Mayor of Montgomery immediately
wired an invitation to Senator Robinson to
make his speech there. i

Editorials in various newspapers have de-
nounced the attitude which Senator Heflin
has taken. The editor of a leading Atlanta
daily suggests that Senator Robinson make
this speech not only in Alabama, but also in
Georgia, Mississippi, the Carolinas—in or-
der that it may be proved whether or not
mob yiolence will overrule the statutes of
the constitution. In this way it could be
proven to the peoples of this country
whether their present estimate of the South
is correct, or whether they have been mis-
led by the statements of one man whom they
adjudge a leader,

It is interesting to note that in his apology
Senator Heflin vehemently: attacked’ the
newspaper men, insisting that they should
not have‘ taken down “rash statements”
made-in “the heat of the moment.” But
some of the more intelligent people are
wondering if men elected to hold important
positions in public offices should not have
learned by now to control their fiery tem-
pers. It if possible that Mr. Heflin under-
stands that he was slightly exargerating
when he made the statement that the entire
South was of that uncouth breed of which he
is apparently the leader. It is rather en-
couraging to note that not all newspapers
and not all people are of the mongrel breed
which insists on taking the law into their
own hands, So far it has not been noticed
in our limited scope, that a single paper of
any “consequence has supported Senator
Heflin in his statements. This might be
taken as indicative of the fact that the emi-
nent senator from Alabama would find out
that the “tar and feathers” of the South
belongs to an era long past.

One wonders a bit, in the light of this dis-
cussion, as to the sincerity of the men who

‘are apparently extremely active in the for-
mulation aiid enforcement of our constitu-
tional government. Three years ago in an

_address here at Davidson, Mr, Heflin gave a

cription of the new South, the new

het eke

/

: opened in intellectual fields during the

|
|
|
|

too true,

past decades,—the increased prosperity ac-

companying the broadened view — and
named a few more achievements of the last
few decades as the South has thrown off the
the mantle of bigotry and narrow-minded-
ness. From recent events, it seems that
Senator Heflin was either slightly mistaken
in the statements he made here, or that he
prefers a more primitive mode of living than
do the majority of people.

With the above in view, it is extremely
important that the issue be proven one way
or the other some time within the near fu-

ture. This could be @ complished if Sena-

tor Robinson accepts the invitations of the
editors of the Montgomery and Atlanta
newspapers. We believe that the majority
of people in this section of the country are
of the same opinion as these editors, that

‘the South no longer is bound, by mob law

and mob rule and that the South is ruled as
sanely, wisely, and competently as the rest
of the country. We believe that the vote of
confidence given by the southern Demo-
cratic delegation is indicative of the real
feelings of the people of the states which
they represent.

Open Forum

TOO HASTY ACTION

At a recent after-chapel meeting of a body
of men a most unprecedented action was
taken. For the first time in its history, a
society which has been active on the hill
ever since the founding of Davidson College
voted to disband, at least temporarily. This
society was the Philanthropic Literary So-
ciety.

That the literary societies do not hold the
position on the hill which they once did is
no subject for argument. It is a fact only
But that there is a place’on the
campus of a college for Liberal Arts such as
Davidson for literary society work is also a
fact. :

In the first place the number of men try-
ing out for places on intercollegiate debat-
ing teams proves the need of literary soci-
cties. Over twenty men participated in the
recent varsity debating tryouts., No one
wold even consider the idea of héving no
more than one practice for an athletic team
and yet approximately half of those trying
out for debating were not taking active nart
in the literary socicties. There can be no
doubt of the fact that active soc‘ety work
gives splendid training for debsimg. Be-
sides getting actual practice himself, one
hears other debates and is able to see and
improve himself by other’s mistakes.

In other lines besides debating the literary
society work is of value and interest Ata
recent meeting of the Eumanean Society
there were four numbers on the program,
no one of which was a debate. Al! the num-
hers were well presented and discussions
were highly interesting, There were ap-
proximately thirty members present, every
one of whom expressly said that he enioved
the program immensely. It is our opinion
that the same program presented before the
entire student body would have inet with
general approval.

Then, if there is a need for literary society
work, and that need was being supplied,
though fecbly, by the Philanthropic Society,
why is it that this action of disbanding was
taken? Last year the Phis had such a large
attendance that the hall would not hold all
the men and now within less than a year s
time the. interest has so dropped that the
resolution to disband met with little or no
opposition, Something is radically wrong
and the eyidencé points toward the officers.
Let us*look into the matter more closely.
During the past fall the president of the
society has been absent from the weeklv
meetings approximately one-third of the
time.» Can any such lack of interest in the
work on the part*ofthe leading-officer be
otherwise than discouraging to the mem-
bers? This in our opinion is the chief reason
for the failure of the society to continue its
existence,

Four members of the Phi Society are vat -
sity debaters. With this nucleus there is no

reason why a live society cannot be created.

That members will not be lacking if these
men and the other capable officers which
are among their number do their best seems
to be shown by the numbers which attendec
last year. Why cannot these men get to-
gether and reconsider a perhaps too hasty

‘action?

It does seem that some other system of torture
could be devised to enable the professors to find out
how little their pupils know. If it is in order; we
would like to suggést éxemptions for everyone from
all exams, no reviews, no parallel; and a vacation from
now until June. We don’t want this enforced merely
in our own case, however!

4

‘on y

Ollapodrida

Student minds are carefree once more and the
majority will settle down for a month of ease
until the first monthly tests rudely awaken them
again. Each and every heart has been full of good
resolves and aspirations as minds fumbled blindly
for the facts during examinations, Those semi-
annual ordeals should be the ;students greatest
incentive to consistent. preparation but the lesson
is not lasting. Most college students live only in

the present and the world laughs at them as a

consequence, «

While underclassmen toiled seniors betook them-
selves to the far corners of the South for rest and
recreation. Restlessness- and loneliness followed
many. The stimulus of group life deadens the
appreciation of the normal course of events which
tine and a steady job can awaken.

Will Rogers, national clown, raced into the spot-
light last week. Once a lowly vaudeville hoofer he
now finds himself the nation’s official jester. When
good. Democrats gathered at the Jackson Day din-
ner in Washington, Rogers entertained with wit.
When Repubiican President Coolidge sallied forth
to Cuba, Democrat Rogers was carried as official
rib tickJer. When Lindbergh, aviator supreme,
winged his way to Mexico, landlubber Rogers
went down to prepare the way with Roger’s good-
will, Clairemore, Okla., Democrats are proud of
their famous clown. To show their native love
they last week presented him as a possible candi-
date for the presidency. At the mention .of the
Roger's name the nation laughed without thought.
Papers pronounced it ridiculous but gave the event
ample comment. One New York paper thought-
fully considered and agreed with the others, but
not without reason. Said they, however, “Roger's
witticisms are too true to be funny.”

Alienists and photographers .are lining’ up their
wares in Los Angeles as Hickman, kidnapper and
murderer, goes to trial. Strange are the ways of
justice and public opinion. The crime for which
he is being tried occurred over a month ago The
trial will last another month and then should
conviction come the execution will not take place
for still another month. Should the murdered be
allowed to live so much longer than his victim if
capital punishment is in force? Michigan had a
similar crime. They have no capital punishment
but the criminal Was sentenced within a week aft-
er the crime was committed. Los Angeles is
known to haye the best police force in the world.
Michigan has quick justice. We dare say that the
latter state will suffer less crime than the former
because of its particular superlative position.

Convention cities have been picked and presi-

dential candidates are beginning to shout their!

wares. Prominent in the Democratic par
Governor Smith, of New. York. Among Refubli-
cans Hoover reigns supreme should Coolidge re-
fuse to be drafted, as he possibly may. Republi-
cans will win. Some party leaders advocate’a wet
and dry issue. There will be no such issue, Ameri-
ca is experiencing prosperity under the Republi-
can regime and that party will rule until prosper-
ity fades into depression,

— .
Republicans continue to hood-wick Mr. Average
American with its Nicaraugan policy, Professed-
ly America is intervening there to restore an order-
ly government, Really the government, controlled
in large measure by Wall Street, is defending big
business in that republic, Nicaraugans resent the
monopoly of their natural resources by foreign
capital and rightly so. Of course they are not
voicing their: resentment in a reasonable, way but
neither is the United States defending its inter-
ests reasonably. The United States should listen
to what patriotic Nicaraugans have to
certainly the natives should have some say as to
who profits by the natural resources of theit own

country, War has never settled a political con-
trovetsy fairly,

say and

National interest rocked with glee last week as
Andy Gump, most famous of all cartoon char-
acters, awoke to find that his billion dollars were
a myth. With the interest came increased royal-
ties to Sidney Smith, originator of “The Gumps."
A leading American educator has said that Smith
possesses the greatest power of simile of any
mortal known, Smith has also been a force in
shaping America’s opinions as has De Beck with
his Barney Google. Their satire is often pungent
and produces a powerful effect.

America’s ational pastime has become golf
rather than baseball. The common herd has dis-
covered that there is more sport in playing "
fame than in watching one. Watching a sport
has always been simply a substitute satisfaction
for man’s inherent sporting spirit. Now he has
found the real thing. Ten yeats will see the col-
lapse of huge baseball salaries and increased
wealth to the proprietors of Public links,

Now that spring is in the air again, we will expect
to see the ladies don their furs and warm wraps for
winter of '29, eas

1S

.

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

A story of extraordinary courage has come out of
Newark, N. j. during the past few days. It concerns
William Connors, self-confessed tramp and a “bum,”
who lived a life of care-free indifference and died
with a smile on his lips and a laugh in his heart.

He literally died inch by inch. A burly policeman
picked him out of a gutter, dead-drunk, Christmas
Eve, and hurried him. off ‘to jail, where he laughed
with his cellmates and cajoled the turnkey, Prison
doctors discovered that the “bum” had contracted frost-
bite during his drunken sleep in the ice-filled gutter
and they transferred him to the Newark City Hospital,
where. for thirty-five days he battled against a Grim
Reaper who was demanding his toll inch by inch.

He was still drunk when he was carried to the hos-
pital. Doctors found him hilarious despite the deadly
ravages of frost-bite. They asked his name, and he
Ieughed, “M’name’s William Connors, but the boys call
me ‘Bill the Bum’—don’t see why you can’t call me
that too, and m’age is 42, and I guess I’ve got no ad-
dress in this town, ‘less its the gutter where the cop
found me. M?’ occupation? Say, didn’t T just tell you
I’m a bum—‘Bill the Bum,’ that’s me.”

So they labeled him “Bill the Bum” on the hospital
records, and they hung a chart bearing that title at the
foot of his cot. He liked the idea. Doctors and
purses agreed that “Bill was at once the most un-
usual and most cheerful patient they had ever attended.
A few days and he was calling all the physicians and
nurses by nicknames, and shouting greetings to other
patients at the far ends of the ward.

Gangrene set in, and made it necessary to amputate
his left arm. His right leg went next. Then regret-
fully and apologefically, the surgeons amputated his
remaining arm. “Somehow,” wrote a Newark re-
porter, “he continued to live. More than that, he con-
tinned to wise-crack.”

“Don’t worry, Doc,” he smiled. “When I get out
o' this joint, U'1ll make a cleanup. Just give me a tin
cup and I'm a rich man.”

But, smiles and the skill of surgeons were helpless
against the gangrene infection. He grew weaker.
Doctors put their heads together—-and when they came
out of a long conference, they told him they’d have to
amputate his remaining limb—the left leg. Bill, wrap-
ped in bandages, and looking more like an Egyptian
mummy than a living. human, quickly gave them his
O. K. The leg came off.

The next morning, Bill was weak. He sensed the
nearness of death, but continued smiling, as if the
Grim Reaper would be afraid to strike as long as he
kept grinning and joking. A nurse offered to light a
cigarette and hold it for him while he smoked. “Don’t
bother, sister,” he said. “There’s going to be plenty
of smoke where I’m going soon, and I won’t need
those arms to get it, either.” He finished in uproar-
ious laughter.

“That's a hot one. Slip it to the doctor, sister, and
watch that baby grin, will ya?” he asked as he stopped
laughing. The nurse tried to feign amusement, but
there were tears in her eyes as she turned and walked
quickly from his bed. ‘

A half hour later “Bill the Bum” was dead.

Moral? Say, does every story have to have a
moral? Ain’t it enough to get a smile or a good cry
out of life—without always asking for a moral? “Bill
the Bum” had no moral by which he lived. If he had,
he might’a been a millionaire or a Congressman—but,
he was satisfied to:live and smile, and death found
him happy-hearted. And, of course, I don’t know, but
I bet Bill would have voted for prohibition and against
Al Smith if he’d been able to beat the frost-bite. He
laughed when they told him he was dying, but, don’t
you suppose his heart was sort of heavy as he thought
of home and mother and boyhood, and of dreams that
hadn’t come true; and don’t you reckon he sort of de-
spised liquor, ard the filth and poverty it had brought
him? I do.

The Ku Klux say they are unmasking “of their own
accord,” yet a little later they break down and con-
fess that judicial bodies have been opposed to the mask
and that they considered this point in theif “action. a

Pamphlets from Northern corporations insist that
the South is living in poverty, that the movement of
various textile industries towards the South means
nothing, and that they will soon return northward.
Well, some people are born blind—others are that way
for no reason at all.

A dissatisfied Italian tinkered with his airplane
motor and cursed his luck for being forced out
of the International speed tests. Last week he
called together a committee and soared into the
air. Round the course he whirred as electrical
timing machinery clicked.. In one minute he cov-
ered five miles. His average speed was 301.185
miles per hour, faster than any human had ever
traveled in safety before. His record was au-
thenticated. The masses considered such speed
impracticable. There was a time when a railroad
train was considered too dangerous when travel-
ing at 25 mi'es an hour. The terrific wind it
created would kill men and animals. Lack of in-

vention only can check progress and then not for
long. : #

j
;
