2

a

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

-- Sport Talk -:

News and Views of Wildcat
Events

By Raymond Lake

Athletic night last week was a great ,suc-
cess. The student body is to be commended
on the way it turned out: for the occasion
and showed its support of the coaches and
the teams. The room was crowded with

‘ students and former Wildcats as well as with

members of the faculty and townspeople,
and we may rightly say that Athletic Night
at Davidson is just one more successful
achievement for Coaches Monk and Tex.
The address by Dr. Gammon was appro-
priate for the occasion and was enjoyed by
everyone present.

Speaking of Dr. Gammon’s address, it was
not what the newspapers represented it to
be in their versions of the occasion. Dr.
Gammon spent much more time speaking of
the benefits of athletics than he did in speak-
ing of its abuses, and did not in any way
“surprise the students by making a violent
attack on college athletics,” as one of the
newspapers represented him as having done.
He was fair to both sides of the occasion
and was very much in favor of athletics. The
only kind of teams he denounced are those
whose motto is to win at any cost.

The rainy weather during the latter part
of last week knocked the baseball and track
teams out of quite a bit of much needed prac-
tice. The baseball season opens with the
Oak Ridge game this week, and the rainy
weather came at a bad time for the team.
The pitchers and catchers have been work-
ing out regularly in the gym, however, and
have not really lost much by the bad weather
except hitting practice. The weather has
been good for the past few days, however,
and the teams have been hard at work. Oak
Ridge has a strong team, but the Wildcats
will be ready when the time comes.

In their practice game last week, the base-
ball team started the year off right by de-
feating the Duke Power Company team 8 to
3. Meadows, Henderson and McInnis pitch-
ed and all three showed good form, especially
the latter. The whole team showed good
form and backed up the pitchers well. They
looked especially good when they worked a
double out on the visitors, one at first and
one at second.

WAL

lf You

By Wildcats in Opening Game

In weather more appropriate for football,
the Davidson College baseball outfit Monday
began the last week of their training before
the opening engagement with the Oak Ridge
Institute here tomorrow afternoon. The
Wildcats and Cadets generally play a brace
of games, but the high school track carnival
scheduled for Saturday determined only one
game.

Coach Younger took charge of the dia-
mondeers Monday. They have been in
charge of Monk Mattox, Freshman tutor,
for the several weeks they have been in
training, while Coach Younger devoted his
time to basketball and later spring football
practice.

Indications are that Davidson’s offering in
the way of a successful nine this year are
better than for the past several seasons, with
more veterans on hand than usual. While
Davidson has no particularly outstanding
twirlers, the Wildcats have several men who
have possibilities of development as the sea-
son progresses,

The Wildcats will prescnt a complete let-
ter-man infield and backfield, if the lineup
used in a practice game Monday afternoon
is any indication of’ the way they will play
Friday—Captain Dulin at third, Littlejohn
at short, Harrison at second, and Crawford
at first. Kugler, Rathford and Johnson, let-
ter men, were in the outer gardens.

Davidson’s weak point is back-stoppers.
McGeachy is the strongest bidder for the
receiver's position, but he injured a finger
in Monday’s practice. It might heal in time
for.his participation in Friday’s encounter.
Meanwhile McAulay, who ordinarily hovers
around the keystone bag, is handling the mit.

Coach Younger stated that it was too early
to definitely intimate who would be on the
mound for the Wildcat’s initial mixup. Mea-
dows, letter man, and Doc Henderson and
McInnis, offerings of last year’s Freshman

SAAC OOO NOON NOL NNO NO NCOP NOOO AOL NCL.

Want Your Frat Pin Back

Take Her a Bag o’
Lance’s Salted Peanuts

Lance Packing Co., Inc.
' Charlotte, N. C.

team, are principal contenders.

a

Ruined

McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of
water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds.

No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our
SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY.

The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)

IBe

|

1

inners’ Golf Outfits.

_ CHARLOTTE
~~ KNOXVILLE

We offer a set of four Clubs and

anvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The ce
|S & W Cafeterias

are catering to you

( AEUANTA Soon)

&

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH.

WILDCAT-OAK RIDGE GAME.
WILL END PRACTICE PERIOD

Complete Monogram Infield and |
Outfield Will be Presented by |

State High Schools
to Have Meet Here

When the high Schools of North Carolina
meet at Davidson next Saturday, .March
24th, to compete in the State High School
Track Carnival, the cream of North Carolina
high school talent will be represented. Entry
blanks have been sent to many of the larger
high schools of North Carolina and already
nine schools have signified their intention to
take part in the meet.

The meet will begin promptly at 2:00 p. m.
and the officials of the meet have stated their
intention to start the track and field events
simultaneously in order that the meet will
not lag. The schools who have answered the
call, and have entered thé meet, are: High
Point, Greensboro, Charlotte, Asheville,
Rockingham, Statesville, Hickory, Salisbury,
and Raleigh. Wilmington High School, the

state championship team of last year, and

year before, has not answered the letter sent
them, as yet, but it is hoped that they will
file their entry in time to take part in the
meet. The schools will be allowed to enter
two men in each event with the exception
of the mile relay, in which event four men
from each team will participate.

Last year at the state meet, several high
school records for the state were broken,
among, them being the records in the pole
vault, and the record in the discus. The
members of the Freshman track team will
also compete in the meet, but their scores
will not officially be taken since they are

not allowed to score in the meet. Their
scores will only be taken as an incentive to
the members of the team, and in order that

the coaches may see how the men are“cun-
ning. The same events will be run‘off which,
were run off last year, and with nine ‘large
high schools participating, the meet bids fair
to be a very interesting and exciting event in

Freshmen Practice For
Hard Baseball Schedule

For the past two weeks the Fresh baseball
candidates have been undergoing a steady
workout under the direction of Johnnie
Dulin. Coach Monk Mattox has supervised
the practice and has personally given the
infielders a workout. The coach planned to
take personal charge of the outfield and in-
field at the beginning of this present week.

The schedule has been worked out by Car-
ter Rowe and is practically completed. He
stated that only one game is pending a date
but it is expected that several games with
more or less important teams will be added
to the list before the opening of the season.
The schedule at present is as follows:

April 11—Wake Forest, here.
April 12—Charlotte High, here.

April 14—(being changed to the 3rd or
4th) Wingate, here.

April 17—Wingate, there.

April 23—Duke, there.

April 24—Wake Forest, there.

April 25—State, there.

April 26—University of N. C., there.

April 2—Rockingham High, here.

The four games that will be played from
April 23rd, through April 26th, at the schools
of the other members of the Big Five, will
compose the yearly trip taken by the Fresh
team. There is a possibly tat tisetaoinlscuy
team. There is a possibility that this trip
may be extended somewhat in order to play
more games if it is seen fit to add others to
the schedule at that particular time that will
fit in with the route of the team.

At present several players have been mak-
ing a good showing in the practice, especially
in the infield. The outfield has been holding
only a more general practice and individual
players have not begun to show up there as
in the other group. Coach Mattox has only
supervised in person the practice of the in-
 fivtd-and could only give the progress of in-
dividuals in that group.

Marrow and Thompson are pulling strong

which competition will be keen.

ea Oe a ee

PSSnar Nan Sen Sina SR Wei Wats ai We Ph WaT Sa a aN TaN enya

for the box, with Armfield and Covington

BASEBALL SCHEDULE
FOR 1928

March 23—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 29—Elon at Davidson.

April 2—Guilford at Guilford. :
April 3—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 4—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 5—Roanoke at Roanoke.

‘April 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 9—Carolina at Salisbury

April 10—Univ. of Penn. at Davidson.
April 13—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 16—Oglethorpe at Rate.
April 17—Oglethorpe at Davidson.
April 18—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April 19—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April 25—Duke at Davidson.

April 27—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.
May 5—Guilford at Davidson.

May 9—Duke at Durham.

May 10—Elon at Elon.

May 11—Wake Forest at W. Forest.
May 12—N. C. State at Raleigh.

Certainly He Did

A small boy had fallen into a creek, and
a kind old lady had stopped until he was
rescued and safely on the bank.

“Dear me, how did you come to fall
in?” she asked’ of the unfortunate boy.

“I didn’t come to fall in,” he explained,
“T came to fish.’_—Tawney Kat.

Members of the Block “C” Club, Clem-
son letter-men, recently gave tehir an-
nual Athletic Ball. Reports state that it
“ended in a blaze of glory.”

in the lead for catcher. Goodson, King and
Jackson lead the race for first base, Proctor
and Caldwell for second, and Marks and
Parmele for third. McMillan has made the
most. outstanding showing so far for short-
stop. The men as a whole represent leading
high school and prep school teams from dif-
ferent parts of the South, and two of the
men are all-state prep school men: Marrow
from Virginia, and McMillan from Louis-
jana.

Coach “Monk” stated that he thought the
prospect looked very good indeed for the
Kittens this year and he was looking for a
good season.

ANNO CANNON OS OPO APO NOI O VOOM) GOS IOWA A ONO OVA OOOO WOO OOO NOOO ODO |
: Is One-Fourth Nature and §
: Three-Fourths Care :
: f
: The White Drug Co. offers its patrons, :
: the exclusive service of a Toilet Goods 8
: Specialist during the week of :
: March 26th :
: This exceptional opportunity permits you to have advice or is
: demonstrations in the proper care of the complexion
: ---There is absolutely no charge for this ser- :
: vice--It is one of our features :
| CARA NOME Feit |
: : : Preparations}
; Insure the attractiveness and personal charm that every
z ; woman desires :
- STEP INTO THE STORE, write or phone us, and select :
5% a time most convenient for you to have the services of %
HI. this Toilet Goods Specialist in your own home iS
: DAVIDSON, N. C. j :
. r) :

NIt7

NECN ain Weta Wan WEE EAI NEA NEMEC NRE NTE ETE NEE

16
