~THEDAV

ED SONIAN

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1928

No. 27

Awarding of Gold Foot-
balls and Certificates
Features Athletic Night

Dr. Edgar Gammon of Charlotte
' Principal Speaker March 14

Alumni Who Have Been Loyal to
Davidson Will Also Receive
“Honors

Athletic Night, which is one of the chief
features of the Athletic Department, will
be held -in-Shearer Hall at eight o’clock
om the night of Mareh’the 14th. This

-night is always looked forward to as one
of the biggest nights during the year.

The principal speaker on the program
will be Dr. Edgar Gammon, of the Myers
Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte.
Dr. Gammon was a great athlete at
Hampden-Sidney when he attended that
institution, Although Dr. Gammon is not
an alumnus of Davidson, he is a staunch
friend of the school and has supported
Davidson in its athletics as well as other
branches of the college.

On this night of nights gold footballs
will be given to those who made their
letters in football. Football, basketball
and track certificates will also be pre-
sented to those,making their letters dur-
ing the past seasons.

Another important feature of the pro-
gram will be awards given to certain
alumni. These awards will be to alumni
who have been loyal to Davidson in their
support of the athletics of the college.
The names of these men are to be with-
held until Athletic Night when the awards
will be made.

Honorary Fraternities

Bid March Fourteenth.

Date Made Earlier to Insure Soon
Initiation

March the 14th is the day set by the
Honorary Fraternity Council as bid day
for all honorary fraternities with the ex-
ception of Omicron Delta Kappa. The
reason given for setting the date almost
a month earlier than heretofore is to
allow the initiations to occur earlier in
the year. Formerly if seniors happened
to be bid they were initiated shortly be-
fore commencement and were thercfore
unable to engage in any of the active
work of the organization. The early date
also allows for delay on the part of a
fraternity that on account of extenuating
circumstances in ‘bidding or initiating.
The earlier date also insures the new
members being fully “matriculated” and
prepared to take over direction of the
work the following year.

Since the members of O. D. K., national
fraternity, depends upon the results of
the student body elections that organiza-
tion was allowed to defer its bid day to a
later date than that of the others.

Davidson has, at present, right nation-
al honorary fraternities, and three local
organizations. Phi Beta Kappa and Omi-
cron Delta Kappa are the outstanding fra-
ternities on the campus. Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, national honorary fraternity, has
eight members. Sigma Upsilon, the liter-
ary organization, has some 14 members.
Sigma Pi Sigma, Physics, is 15 strong.
Alpha Phi Epsilon, Forensic fraternity,
has 15 members while Scabbard and
Blade, Military organization, is 16 strong.
The International Relations Club has
some 20 members.

The local fraternities are Omega Phi

Alpha, Philosophical, Biology Club, and
Delta Pi Kappa.

Pritchett and Hall
Lose Debate With
William and Mary

Before a packed house in the Queen's
College auditorium last week, a Davidson
debating team composed of Frank Hall
and-C€art Pritchett tost a close decision to
a team representing’ William and Mary
College of Virginia. Dr. Frazer, president
of Queens, presided.

Debating on the subject, “Resolved,
That the United States Should Cease to
Protect by Force of Arms American Cap-
ital Invested in Foreign Lands,” the de-
baters offered an intensely interesting dis-
cussion to the large audience. The David-
son speakers debated on the affirmative.
Frank Hall, first speaker, pointed out that
the present policy encouraged economic
exploitations in foreign countries by big
American interests. He also pointed out
the needless risk and loss of life, blood-

Annual Student Body Elections Will
Begin Wednesday, March Fourteenth

In spring a young man’s fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of love—and what not,
but his more sober thoughts are concerted
upon the devious intricacies of the college
political machines, and the part they will
play in the coming spring elections. These
elections usually take place before the
spring holidays, so within the next three
weeks they will be upon us.

Throughout the classic halls of old
Georgia, the Tammany of the “Row,” are
echoing the words, “The platform's the
thing, whereon we'll make our candidate's
favor ring,” while the reply comes hurling
back from the anti-saloon league head-
quarters in the North, “Be his merits
broader than the sky, he won’t win out
unless he’s dry.” For weeks already ward
bosses and the amateur politicians have
been making secret and piercing thrusts
at each other through the smoke-befog

shed which causes bitter feelings between | 8¢ bull sessions, and without their know- { ; ‘
/ ling it, the innocent voters have their minds | unbiased mind only after a careful dis-
| |

nations. /

Carl Pritchett, second speaker, showed
that this policy was one of political ‘im-
perialism and is leading to bad relations
with the weaker nations of the world.
Pritchett emphasized the fact that Ameri-
can investors invest without the guarantee
of armed support and that they should

dices. Of such, are conditions that be,

Turning then, to the more serious side
of the elections, we realize that it is a
time for sober thought and deliberate
action, for upon the character and ability
of the officers that are chosen will depend
the -fortunes of the separate classes and
the student body as a whole, It is the
strictest duty of every man in school to
appreciate the import of the selection of
the leaders, and it is also everyone's obli-
gation, and debt, to his school to cast his
vote, that the officers may be chosen in
more fairness and good judgment. The
instruments of our organizations are be-
ing molded; of what substance shall they
be?

Reviewing the elections of the past, we
are impressed by the fact that there has
yalways been an abundant wealth of lead-
jership in the college, but keeping the ulti-
‘mate good of the school always in mind,
ithe student should cast his vote with an

|half made up through suggested preju- | crimination of the merits of each nominee.

| The standard of the college must depend

jand the fast aproaching storm will expose | Upon the conscientious observance of

|
|

not expect to be protected at the expense |

of political friendliness.

The William and Mary team, Kelsey |

and Elliott, from the negative point of
view, stated that the present poliev had
proved to be the most expedient and it
was on this point that its debate was
largely based. The negative attacked the
practicality of the substitute offered by
the affirmative, that of arbitration in the
World's Court.

The judges brought in a decision of two
to one in favor. of the negative.

Almost every member of the Davidson
varsity debating teams went over for the

debate. One of the best audiences seen

the things to come.

Long List of Honor
Students Published

Among the forty-one names announced

by the Registrar as composing the Honor |

Roll for the first term of the current year,

there were sixteen juniors, fifteen seniors,

{six sophomores and four freshmen,

| distinction of having made the honor roll |

This
is fhe largest number in recent years and
is but another indication of the effect of
careful selection of students which has
been the practice for the
vears, according to officials.

past several

Announcement of those who have the

comes ina different form than in previous
statements.

at a debate in this section for some time of each man and giving his position in re-

(Continued on page 5)

(Continuedyon page 5)

Gastonia Editors Show Advantages
and Uncertainties in Newspaper Work

aging editor and editor of The Gastonia | plows regardless of criticism which m
Gazette, spoke at Davidson on the night | pe heaped upon him.

of February 29. Their addresses were a
part of the third week of the “Y” voca-

Instead of quoting the grade |

these rules.—“The Political Observer.”

Rhodes Scholarship
Useful in Medicine

Wilburt C, Davison, Dean of the Duke
| University School of Medicine, sends the

| following message to Davidson men who
{are considering applving for the Rhodes
i scholarship to be awarded from this state
in December of this vear. Mr. Deasison
| was a from New York
| Following his course there he became as

Rhodes scholar

sistant dean of Johns Hopkins Medica!
Gates from which position he was call-

ied to fill the chair at Duke, Although
still a young man, Mr. Davison is well
jalong the way toward a distinguished

‘career and his message should be partic
j ular interesting to Davidson men.

| The number of pre-medical and medi
| cal students who are applying for Rhodes
| scholarships is increasing every year,
|! Many more would be candidates if they
| realized what a great opportunity is of
|fered to them. The preparation for med-
licine which can ‘be obtained by three

! : . e
jhave a moral courage which will enable | Years’ study at the Medical School of
J. A. Atkins and Hugh A. Query, man-| him to stand foursquare to every wind that | Oxford University and one or two years

|
|

|

ay

Earlier in the week, Jake Wadé, noted

tional guidance institute.. This third week | sports writer of The Greensboro Daily

was devoted to journalism as a life work.

“The crying need of our own land as
well as that of others is a knowledge of
the truth—the truth as to government,
the truth as to economics, the truth as to
world conditions and world problems and
our people are depending to a very large
extent upon the newspapers, not only for
their information, but for their views and
opinions regarding’ all important matters
of life and living,” declared Mr. Atkins.
He also showed the advantages and dis-
advantages of the newspaper game as a
whole. The business is uncertain, does
not conform to standards, and is usually
of small monetary benefit. The speaker
showed how newspaper work opens the
way to positions of state honor, trust
and prominence. He concluded with
these words: “If you want to serve ina
high capacity; if you want to make your
talents and training count, and if youare
willing to undergo the ease, pleasure,
power and plenty that money brings,, I
know of no profession that is so inviting
as that of journalism.”

Mr. Query spoke very briefly asserting
that “the newspaper man must have a
backbone which can neither be bent nor
broken by outside influence, and he must

News, and formerly on the sporting staff
of the Charlotte Observer, spoke to all
those of the student body so interested in
journalism.

On Friday night, March oth, a noted
chemical engineer, Mr. Peter S. Gilchrist,

will address the Vocational Guidance
School. Mr. Gilchrist has been mighty
successful -in this work, and is being

looked forward to with keen interest in
this vocation.

The law students will also be very glad
to hear that Mr. S. Clay Williams, at-
torney for R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., of
Winston-Salem, will deliver an address
on that subject Wednesday night, March
14th at 7 p. m. :

Last week the Vocational Guidance meet-
ings were generally well attended, a fact
that is most pleasing to the “Y.” This week,
on Friday, Peter S. Gilchrist, noted chemi-
cal engineer, will speak on the subject of
chemistry and its place in the industrial field
in general. He is recognized as being a
leader in his line, and will be able to give
first-hand information ‘on the subject. An-
other great opportunity—don't let it go by
unheeded. ;

at an American medical school has many
advantages over four years at an Ameri-
can medical school. An American Rhodes
scholar, on entering Oxford, can enroll in
the Honor School of Physiology and ob-
tain the B.A. degree in Physiology at th«
end of two years. This entitles him, with-
out further examination, to the M.A. de-
gree. During this time he can complete
| the study of anatomy, physiology, bio-
| chemistry, pharmacology, pathology,
bacteriology and physical diagnosis, the
subjects usually taught in the first two
| years in an American medical school. He
|can then be admitted, if his record is
|satisfactory, to the third year class of
| the medical schools of Johns. Hopkins,
| Harvard, Duke and several other univer-
sities, and obtain his M.D. degree in four
years from the time he entered Oxford

It will, however, be wiser. for the stu-
dent to remain at Oxford for a-third year
so that he may avail himself of the op-
portunity for independent work in phy-
siology, pathology, bio-chemistry, etc., and
thus obtain.the B.Sc, degree at the end of
this year. This supplementary training
is of inestimable value in his future career
as a physician or surgeon. If, in addition
to this work, the student has profitably
utilized his vacations, and there are three
of them each year—six weeks each at
Christmas and Easter and three months

(Continued on page 8)

in the summer—by clinical work-in-Lon-+4

Summer Session of Six
Weeks Lately Approved
by Trustees of College

Institution to Begin Tuesday,
-June 12 —

FLEAGLE MADE DIRECTOR

Various Courses of College Grade
Offered to Students and

Teachers
is q

At their last meeting, the Trustees of
Davidson College a summer
session of six weeks, to bein Tuesday,
June 12.
of college grade, and will be available to
students of Davidson or other colleges
who wish to advance their college stand-
ing. They should also have an appeal to
teachers of the public schools who wish
All

authorized

The courses to be given will be

their licenses.

to raise or renew
courses will be taught by members of the
regular college faculty. Prof. F. K.

Fleagle has been appointed as director.
including Bible, Education,
English, History, Mathe-
matics, Science, and Spanish are offered,

Courses
Economies,

with the understanding that only six hours
of work will be given in each department.
More is offered, how-
ever, so as to allow some range of choice,

than this amount
de-
In

any

and the courses finally se‘ected will
pend on the demand of the students.
there is for
not at present offered, arrange-

ments will be made to have it given.

case sufficient demand

course

Students who wish to secure rooms in
send their names
School
The charges

the dormitories should
to the the

Session as soon as possible,

Director of Summer

for dormitory rooms for the term ofs.six

weeks will be $12.50 each, if two students
(Continued on page 5)

French Author Delivers
Lecture on Swiss Alps

Monsieur Gos Gives Illustrated
Address in French

The Swiss Alps was the subject of the
lecture delivered here last Thursday eve-
ning by M, Gos, a native French author.
M. Gos entertained the students, faculty,
and townspeople with an illustrated ad-
dress. He is at present making a lecture
tour of the United States. M. Gos springs
from an aesthetic family. His father was
an artist of ote, and he himself is an
author’ of both and poetry. His
work is somewhat along the line of Oliver
Curwood. He is also a mountain climber
of repute, having many Of the
highest peaks of the Alps unaccompanied
by guide or friend. .He speaks English
poorly but is elegant in his use of French.
His presence was secured by the Faculty
Committee on Lectures.

M. Gos’ lecture on the Alps was illus-
trated with well chosen and beautifully
painted scenes. His address opened with
a description of the plateaus and valleys
of the Alpine region. The vatleys are
very acute but highly fertile. The lakes
are numerous and beautiful.

The speaker next described the jagged
rock-peaks, the snow covered caps, and
the huge glaciers of the Alps. He then
spoke of the hazards of mountain climb-
ing and of the courageous characteristics
that the mountaineers have developed. He
mentioned several thrilling mishaps be-
falling parties ‘attempting to ascend the
peaks. One incident which he related was
horrible in itsoresults. Five men were
racing with a lone man in an attempt to
beat him to the top. They arrived there
before he did but on the descent they

tumbled—from_the_side_of a cliff and only.

prose

scaled

(Continued on page 5)
