7

her husband.

THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928 e

.

N.C.C.W. Presents
“The Silver Cord”

The dramatic department of N. C. C..W.
brought the theater production, “The Silver
Cord,” presented by the Theater Guild
Repertory Company, from the Theater Guild
of ‘New York, to Greensboro for a per-
formance Friday, February 24th. It was
presented to a large audience in the college
auditorium ; the event was a striking success.

The play, by Sidney Howard, deals with
the mother-and-son problem ina family
where the mother, rich and widowed, lavishes
on her two sons all the romance and affection
for which she has never found release with
So smothering is her love
that the eldest son has to go 3,000 miles
away from home to marry and the youngest
sows a crop of wild oats.

The mother strives to keep for herself, the
boyish love: of her sons, now grown men,
But her own love has long since become a
highly developed form of selfishness, and the
inevitable tragedy occurs. The younger son
is recaptured from his fiance at terrible cost ;
the elder son is definitely lost after his wife
has exposed her professional motherhood.

Mr. Howard has devoted talents of a high
order to this theme; it is a thoughtful study,
written mainly in lines more distinguished
for their clarity than for sparkle.

The work of the company deserves much |
praise. “The Silver Cord” was presented by
the whole group rather than by individual
players, and it was an achievement.

Glee Club Returns From
Trip Through Southland

Concerts Given at Atlanta, Ander-
son, Gaffney, and Gastonia

| musicians designate as an attraction extraor-

been booked by Limestone College, then ‘to
Gastonia, where they gave their final per-
formance of the trip Tuesday night.

As the feature attraction of their pro-
grams, ‘Mrs. Emily Berger Cullum, wife of
the director of the club, presented numbers
which were received with great acclaim at
each place. :

Atlanta papers as well as the press of the
other cities were loud in their praise of the
Glee Club for the quality of the perform-
ance, the variety of the program and the
general excellence of the organization.

Polly Peachtree, Atlanta Society Editor,
says: “At least, they shall not die of ennui,
awful boredom, those persons to whom Lent
comes NOT as a season of spiritual re-
freshment, for the present week-end fur-
nishes several diverting and interesting things
to brighten the gray days of Lent. These
run the gamut from sedate readings, official
teas and dinners, to the ‘Ball of the Nations,’
a brilliant fancy dress affair, to gladden the
hours of Friday evening.

“Davidson College’s Glee Club, always
welcome in Atlanta for the high quality of
its entertainment as well as for the fact that
its program shows always so many Atlanta
boys appearing among the college singers
and musicians, is planning to entertain a
capacity house this evening in the auditorium
of Atlanta Woman’s Club. This year the
singing collegians have provided what skilled

dinary in Emily Berger Cullum, well-known
contralto of Chicago and’one of America’s
foremost oratorio and concert contralto, to
their roster. One glimpse of the program is

| vice-presidents of that organization, will

| will be a good drawing card for the meet-

Company. Judge Marion will discuss | Will be made later as to which department
|“Corporation Law” in the Y rooms at | Will be be discussed on the various nights.

circles of this state. He was one of. the
attorneys in the recent Gatlin murder
trial and is well able to give advice con-
cerning this phase of this great vocation.
He will speak at 7:30 o’clock in Y rooms
to interested students.

On the following night, Mr. S. Clay
| Williams, chief counsel for the R. J. Rey-
}nolds Tobacco Company and one of the

Noted Chemical

|
On Friday night of this week the Voca-|
tional Guidance School will be addressed by
Mr. Peter S. Gilchrist, who is a noted chem-
ical engineer. He is president of the Char-
lotte Construction Company, which install
chemical plants throughout the South. Mr. |
Gilchrist comes to us highly recommended, |

because of his experience in this field. He
is one of the few men-in the South who is |
a member of the F. R. C. S. |
|

!
discuss the subject of “Law As a Life j
Work.” Mr. Williams is said to be one of
the highest salaried lawyers in this sec-

tion. He is an alumnus of Davidson and

ing which is to be held in Shearer hall on
Wednesday night at 7 o’clock, just preced-
ing the Athletic Night program.

Judge John J. Parker, United States
circuit court judge for this district and a
nationally famous lawyer and judge, will
speak on “The Judiciary and Ethical
Viewpoint of Law.”

Because of conflicting engagements the
fourth speaker of this group will not be
here until the following week on Thurs-
day night. This speaker is Judge J. H.
Marion, chief counsel for the Duke Power

Next week Law will be the vocation dis-
cussed. Mr. S. Clay Williams, chief ate |
torney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Com- |
pany, will give an address in Shearer Hail |
on Wednesday night, March 14th, at 7:00
p.m. Mr. Williams is an alumnus of David- |
son who has been very successful in the law |

field.

Lawyers representing civil, criminal and
!corporation law, will talk on Monday, Tues-
day and Thursday nights. Announcements

7:30 o’clock.

This is the fifth week of the Vocational
Guidance series of meetings and follows
discussions concerning the Ministry, Busi-
ness, and Journalism. Following Law
will come Education and Medicine.

Couldn’t Be

all the assurance one needs of a most profit-
able and pleasing evening.”

Forty members of the organization made
the trip in two new parlor-car buses which

Todgson—"I don’t know whether it was has. not been spent in vain,
your wife or not. I don't. know her very | Education and medicine will be discussed
well.” | the last week. The committee in charge
Coombs—“Did she have a short dress?” | would feel completed if any student would

were chartered for the entire trip. Enter-
tainment during the two days spent in At- |
lanta. was provided by members of the’ dif-
ferent Atlanta Presbyterian churches in their
homes.

Returning last Tuesday night from a}

Hodgson—“I didn’t notice the dress.” suggest some field that has not been discuss-
Coombs—“Then it wasn’t my wife.” ed. It would be glad to co-operate and try

Engineer

Addresses Students Friday

to obtain some one experienced in the line
suggested.

Any suggestions about the Vocational
Guidance School will be appreciated. This
is the first year that the Davidson “Y” has
tried to put on such a big affair and if all
will work together the “Y’’ feels sure that
the school next year will be much better
with the experience from this year.

Life at C. M.T. C.

in Pictures Here

Through the courtesy of its management
there will be shown at the Davidson Theater
this week and also in the near future two
moving pictures portraying life in C. M.
T. C. camps. These pictures are to be shown
for the purpose of advertising the Citizens
Military Training Camps, which are organ-
ized and operated by the War Department
of the United States Government. 5

Judge Marion, chief attorney of the The first picture of one reel is entitled
| Southern Power Company, is being sought| “Young America Preferred.” It will be
to discuss corporation law. The committee |Shown both at the afternoon and evening
believes that he will accept. shows on Friday, March 9th.

The Vocational Guidance School js half About the second week in May another
over and the committee wishes to thank the|C. M. T. C. picture will be shown, entitled
| students for showing so much interest so far |"“Making Better Citizens.” * ’
and it hopes that the time of the students} According to Captain Daugherty, the

commanding army officer of the Davidson
R. O. T. C. battalion, these pictures are ex-
pected to be very instructive as well as
amusing, giving a real insight into life at
a C. M. T. C., and he urges that all who
possibly can make a point of seeing them.

Next week—Monday, Tuesday and Wed-

m

triumphant trip, Davidson’s gleemen brought "esday—the Glee Club will fill an engage- |

Praises of critics in South Carolina and |ment with the Carolina Theater of Char-

Georgia in an abundant quantity after a trip lotte, having been engaged following a try- |

to Atlanta and a return with intermediate Out which was held here three weeks ago
stops. Five concerts were given, two pro- | When the manager of the amusement place

grams were broadcasted from Station WSR, |‘came over to offer criticisms and suggestions |

e ills qi H Mg

ea
M 0» enw

We Me

of Atlanta, and other impromptu perform-
ances were given en route.

The club was feted before and after per- |
formances at each place with a reception |
following a tea and then another reception, |
ad infinitum, until they were thoroughly |
filled with praises for the people of Ander- |
son, S. C., Atlanta, Ga., Gaffney, S. C., and |
Gastonia, N. C. |

Fine crowds were attracted to each per- |
formance and announcements from the busi- |
ness manager are to the effect that the finan-
cial status of the organization is better than
following previous trips of like nature’ in |
past years.

The Glee Club gave its first concert at
Anderson College, then to Atlanta where

they appeared in the auditorium of the |

Woman’s Club, broadcasted Saturday after-
noon over WSB, performed for an audience
at Agnes Scott that night, filled the choirs
of the various Presbyterian churches on
Sunday, giving a twilight serenade for the
North Avenue Presbyterian Church.
Leaving Atlanta early Monday morning,

concerning the program.

The members will leave the college each

day following morning classes and return
that night following the final performance.

Prominent Lawyers Are
Secured For Talks Here

Different Phases of Law to be Dis-
cussed Next Week

For the fifth week of the Vocational

Guidance Series, Y officials have provided |
jfour prominent lawyers to discuss differ- |

jent phases of “Law as a Life Work.”

viewpoint, corporation law and the gen-

eral field of law will be presented: by |

eminent jurists of this section,

| Tuesday night, Mr, P. W. Glidewell, a,
noted attorney of Reidsville, N. C., will!
jspeak on the subject of “Criminal Law.” |
| Mr. Glidewell is a prominent man in the |
the club went to Gaffney, where ‘they had [affairs of Reidsville and ranks high in law

AN INVITATION!

ing, Trust and Insurance Service.

INSURANCE D

McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mer.

You are cordially invited to attend on March 13, 1928, from five
until nine o’clock P. M., the opening of our new home, equipped
wth every modern facility to render complete and adequate Bank-

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

+

EPARTMENT

M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We

offer a set of four Clubs and |

Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.

_ Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S& W Pcisisiins

are catering to you .

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

‘(ATLANTA Soon)

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Criminal law, the judiciary and ethical |

|

|

describe a camel, said, “A camel is what you wish you

just the taste and aroma to pack your smoke-spot with

AN ADDITION TO CAMEL SMOKE-LORE

WE susmir the sad case of the freshman in zoology, who, when asked to

were smoking while

you try to think of the right answers.” He flunked zoology—but he knew his
cigarettes. For in time of trial or time of joy, there’s no friend like Camels.

The subtle influences of choice tobaccos upon the smoke-spots of mankind
have been carefully studied, identified, and blended smoothly into Camels
—the finest of cigarettes. And we'll bet an alkaflitch on this: Camels have

the “fill-fullment”

every experienced smoker seeks, Got an alkaflitch you want to lose?

©1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem. N.C.

2
