: THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

3

———

MANY COLLEGES ARE
VISITED BY J. M. APPLEBY

‘ j

James M. Appleby has just returned from | Fifteen Men From
a week’s trip in behalf of the Gamma Ee
Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity.
visited a number of colleges and ititiversities, |
especially in Tennessee, where there are |
groups which are petitioning for chapters in| tendered a sumptuous banquet by the neo-
the fraternity or making inquiries about it. | phytes of that organization last Friday night
His purpose was to investigate whether there | in the upper room of the “Eu” hall. About
were mutual grounds for admitting rey

and to inspect the laboratories.

; sae Ane . .| Was unanimously sic é Ss.
Jim was last year worthy grand alchemist | y Sona Meret & success

Charles Trabue presided in his usual mas-
On account of his fine work last iterful manner, though little business was

of the fraternity, or in ordinary language, |
president.

year, he was asked by his successor, Dr. T. | |transacted as the meeting was largely ‘of a

R. Leigh, noted Florida chemist, to under- | social nature.
take this work. Among the schools he was |
requested to visit were Vanderbilt, Sewanee, |
Auburn, and Georgia Tech.

The program of the evening
included impromptu talks by several members
‘on various and diverse topics, all of vital
|interest. However, the piece de
The fraternity was originally organized at | was the trial of Freshman Burch, arrested
mp but has _Since grown to be aon the heinous charge of being an inhabitant
outhernwide organization. Last year Da- lof Memphis, Tenn. The prosecution was

vidson was well represented in its officers, | ‘h
for out of five there were three from David- | andled by Attorney Scott N. Brown, while |
D. Miller,

son. Besides Jim Appleby, there were Dr.

H. B. Arbuckle, grand chancellor, and Mr. After much bril-
Oscar J. Thies, keeper of the cult. Dr. Ar- liant argumentation by both lawyers and
buckle last year resigned as chancellor in severe cross-examination of the
jury

resistance

the defense was undertaken by F,
a Capable young lawyer.

favor of Dr. Ross, of Auburn, as he believed defendant

that the offices should be scattered among by attorney Brown,
leading. Southern chemists. verdict of “Guilty,”
( a few minutes.

First Ballots Cast for
Heads of Athletic Asso.

the

after being out for only

short lecture on the magnitude of the crime,
sentenced the prisoner to a three months’
residence in Nashville. Burch heard his
doom with praiseworthy equanimity, and. in
a touching speech, thanked Judge King for
his leniency displayed in not sending him to |
Chattanooga, and tearfully promised never
again tobe guilty of being born in Memphis.

After a short round-table discussion,
club adjourned to meet again on some date
just before final examinations.

The annual elections for the Athletic Asso-
ciation are now under way, having been be-
gun Saturday morning under the direction of
W. O. Nesbit, present head of the Davidson
Athletic Council. No definite elections have
been made as yet, only preliminary balloting
having been dispensed with. The finals will
be run off during the first days of this week
and results will be announced at the earliest
possible moment. <A president is to be
chosen from the rising Senior class, two
vice-presidents from the rising Junior class,
and a secretary-treasurer from the coming
Sophomores.

Nesbit opened the proceedings by reading
a complete list of letter mén from each class.
As is well known about the campus, a’man, in
order to’ hold office in the association, must
be a letter man, a wearer of the “D.” The
first round of voting was run off Saturday
morning, each man voting for the athlete of
his choice, and it is understood that the men
polling the most votes will be run again in
the finals this week.

Election to the presidency of the Athletic
Association is one of the highest honors on
the “hill,” and carries with it a very great
resonsibility. In filling the requirements of
the office, the man must not only be an out-
standing athlete, but must be the sort of
man to win the confidence of the whole stu-
dent body. A successful athletic association
means a great deal to, the fulfillment of an
ideal college year. The present officers of
the Davidson Council are W. O. Nesbit, pres-
ident; J. W. Mellon and Ed. Wilson, vice-
presidents; C. R. Pritchett, secretary-treas-
urer.

Logan to Conduct
Mission Institute

Next week a mission institute will be con-
ducted by Dr. Charles H. Logan, who is now
a missionary on furlough from Japan, and
who is teacher of Bible this year at Agnes
Scott.

He will commence the institute by con-
ducting the Sunday night vesper service.
Dr. Logan will speak to the student body
during chapel Monday morning, and will
conduct the different classes all day Monday
and Tuesday.

All men who are interested in the work of
missions will be given the opportunity at
this time to speak with Dr. Logan. He will
speak at a meeting open to both students
and townspeople Tuesday night.

At all these meetings, there will be dis-
cussed’ some phase of missionary work or}
mission projects. During the week there will
be displays -of mission literature both of
home and foreign fields. |

_ Tenn. Hold Meeting:

The members of the Tennessee Club were |

15 men from the Volunteer State were pres-
jent to enjoy the festivities, and the gathering |

returned aj

“Judge Mac King, after a!

the |

|appreciate any suggestions or ideas in re-
} i

SOUTH AMERICA

gard to the work of the Y. Any new
methods of work that may prove helpful
would be welcomed.

“Y” Column

The speaker at Y this week will be Dr.
Chas. H. Logan, a missionary on furlough
from Japan, teacher for this year at Ag-
nes Scott, and lecturer on missions at Co-
|lumbia Seminary. This most capable man

The installation service for the new of-
ficers will be on April 15th, and it is hoped
that a large number will be present, to
help make this an impressive service.

The Vocational Guidance Institute has
come to a close now, and there is quite a
bit of speculation as to the actual results
of the institute. The Y feels that a great
good can come from such a series of
meetings, and hopes that they proved of
use and help to some men in the Student
Body. Even though only a few were
benefitted, the Y will feel well repaid for
the work and trouble in arranging for
such talks. Much credit for the excellent
way in which the institute was carried
is due to Julian Lake, who did a great
deal of the work in putting on usch
a program, and deserves the appre-

The little booklet called “Why the Y?" | ciation of the Y and the whole Student
which the Y Board of Control instructed; Body. At any rate, the Y believes that it
the secretary to get up, will soon be out | has made a great step forward in the di-
and ready for distribution. The volume | rection of a much needed factor, and even
is being edited by John Ely, and contains though some things were lacking that
a complete report of the work of the|may have been needed, still many
Davidson Y in all its phases. Copies will; value were there, and it is through those
given to the Trustees, Faculty, and|that the Y hopes that helpful things were
friends of the College, and to any student , accomplished. And with such a feeling
It will have much valuable the Y views the close of the second Vo-
linformation concerning the Y and ought | cational Guidance Institute.
jto be of interest to a great number of |
jinen,

| will be here to lead the Y’s Mission In-
stitute, which will start at Y Sunday eve-
ning. will continue with classes, specially
arranged, on Monday and Tuesday, end-
ing with an open meeting Tuesday ight.
It is hoped that me interested in Mission
work, both foreign and home will take
advantage of this opportunity to learn
isomething about the work, from a man

(skilled in that sort of Christian endeavor.
Drop by and ask for information concern-
ing these meetings.

Sy.

of
be

desiring one.

BRIE Gone
The Student Body is to be most heartily
| congratulated on the fine choice of men
lit has made to lead the Y in its work for
the next year. The officers for the coming
|term are excellently fitted for their work,
land have the qualities of Christian gentle- to go around, attempt to jump up on this
!men that are most to be desired. So in , Wall, risking broken arms, fractured legs,
ithe view of such facts, the Y feels that it ‘and even broken backs and necks, not to
itt been greatly blessed in the men CAE innumerable bruises.
| will be in charge of it next year, and rests! Each student jumps up this on the
| assured that careful, conscientious work | erage of four jumps per day, and, count-
will be done in all fields of endeavor. ing out Sunday, twenty-four jumps
The new president is at present working , week, ninety-six per month or approxi-
and would mately — eight hundred and sixty-four
| jumps per college year. Since each jump

& |

STATISTICAL JUMPS

In front of West Dormitory is an in-
surmountable wall that extends to the
height of three feet. Every day the stu-

}dents in going to classes, being too lazy

av-
per
jon his cabinet for the new year,

—

Seven Men Answer

Cheer Leader Call

Cheer Leader Myers recently issued a call
for all Sophomores wishing to try out for
assistant cheer leaders to report to him. The
following Sophomores answered the call:
R. D. Croom, C. H. Dubose, W. A. Nichol-
son, A. T. Edelman, D. F. Gaffney, E. S.
Heefner, and R. T. Nunan. These men
were given some practice last Friday when
they assisted Myers in leading the cheering
at the baseball game. During this spring and
the early part of next fall these men will be
under the leadership of Myers. This practice
this spring will be of great help to the men
for the football season next fall, according
to Myers.

The election of assistant cheer leaders will
not be until next fall,at -the opening of
school. Now is the time though for all those
wishing to try out to make their wishes
known to Varsity Cheer Leader Myers.

Myers wants to urge other men to come
out for assistant cheer leader. It is not: too
late for other men to come out. The sooner
the men come out the better work they will
be able to render; but it is not too late.
“Those men who cannot contribute school
spirit by coming out for athletics and thosé
who have a gift that way should come out
and try their talent in leading the cheering,”
another statement of the cheer leader.
Myers is very anxious for more men to come
out. % :

is

is three feet the has jumped
2,502 feet.

Physics gives that Work
equal to the the distance.
Suppose the student weighs 150 pounds,
Then 160 time 2,502 equals 388,800 foot-
energy in
alone. Just imagine that wasted in the
four years of his college life; he jumps
1.956 miles high, and expends 1,555,200
foot-pounds of energy:

poor boy

is

law
times

the

force

pounds of wasted one year

This does not even take into considera-
tion that he jumps back down a distance

of 1.956 miles, ~

THE SUN NEVER SETS ON
CHESTE RFLELD'S POPULARITY!

Popular in all four
corners of the earth!
Caesterrienp’s good

taste has won the good will
of the world. There is hardly

a country in either hemi-
sphere where Chesterfield
will not be found a leading
seller among American

cigarettes.

