'

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

English Professor
Speaks to Writers

In speaking before the Reporters’ Club
in Phi Hall Tuesday night, Prof. H. T.
Lilley, of the English Department, gave
many helpful suggestions as to the work
of The Davidsonian reporter,

This meeting was one of a _ series
scheduled for the next few weeks, in
which it is the purpose of the officers of
the organization to bring someone who
can speak authoritatively as to newspaper
work, Professor Lilley has been closely
conected with the publications during his
college years and since that time. He
was editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks”
his senior year at Davidson, Recently he
was one of the principal speakers at a
mecting of newspaper editors of South
Carolina colleges.

During the course of his remarks, he
gave a brief glance over the history of
newspapers, stating that the origin was
Roman and that the development did not
come until the eighteenth century in Eng-
land. It was, pointed out that the. most
rapid and far-reaching strides have been
made during the. past twenty years,

The speaker urged those who are in-
tending to enter newspaper work after
college to choose some specific depart-
ment of a newspaper and work with that
specific end in view.

Professor Lilley urged the reporters to
keep The Davidsonian on a high plane
and suggested that the proper emphasis
should be placed on deserving features.
He spoke of the high standard of the
New York Times with its “all the news
that’s fit to print” moto.

As to the content of the news story, he
suggested a proper consideration of the
readers; the including of all the necessary
news; omission of personal theory, and of
guess work; stressing of a definite point
in each article; employment of restraint
in writing and an application of news-
paper ethics. Concerning style, he em-
phasized a use of correct grammar in a

Military Training a s
Backed by Leading
Acting as Civilian Aides

C. M. T. C. Organisation Has Wide-
Spread Representation

FOURTH CORPS ACTIVE

State Leaders Assist in Creating
Favorable Interest in Behalf of
Training

Realizing that it was fundamentally a
citizens’ project, there was organized,
years ago, the Military Training Camps
Association made up of prominent citizens
for the encouragement of the youth of
the country to take advantage of the op-
portunities offered at C. M. T. Camps.

Today, over the United States, in every
corps area, and in every state there is a
member of this Association and in nearly
every county there is a chairman who
gives of his time, to aid the War Depart-
ment in the successful inauguration and
conduct of such camps, All of these men
are prominent leaders in civilian life. Its
President, Charles B, Pike, of Chicago,
states that the Association has active rep-
resentatives in more than ninety per cent
of the three thousand counties in the
United States.

In the Fourth Corps Area, ‘former Gov-
ernor John M. Slaton, Grand Building,
Atlanta, Ga., is the civilidti aide to the
Secretary of War and is working in con-
junction with Major General Richmond
P. Davis, the Fourth Corps Area Com-
mander.

Under the plan announced, the Civilian
Aide to the Secretary of War for each
state will direct the progress of the cam-
paign within his own state, working in
conjunction with officers of the Army.

The State Aides who have all served in
this capacity for from two to five years,
are as follows:

For North Carolina, Albert L. Cox,
prominent in the American Legion -in
North Carolina, a lawyer by profession
and residing in Raleigh,

story that is clear, concise and direct.

‘Arbuckle Picked as
Permanent Teacher

of Boys’ S. S. Class

4

Deciding that the best results obtain-
able were not beihg gained by having a
different teacher each Sunday, the stu-
dent class of the local Sunday School
voted unanimously for Dr. H. B Arbuckle
as the permanent teacher at a recent
meeting.

Dr. Arbuckle accepted the position as
teacher with the provision that he is to
be absent on the first Sunday in each
month.

Members of the faculty will be called
upon to fill this vacancy from time to
time,

Discussion was led by Carl Pritchett,
president of the body, and the consensus
of opinion was that a regular teacher
could take greater interest and accomplish
more with the class than could be done
by having a different professor to discuss
the lesson at each meeting.

Dr. Arbuckle has been a frequent teach- |.

er of this class heretofore and has gained
the admiration and esteem as expressed
in the unanimous vote which was tender-
ed him,

Some forty to fifty men gather each
Sunday for the discussions which are held
along the lines as set forth by the Com-
mittee on Standard Lessons, The presi-
dent extends an invitation to those other
members of the student body who do not
attend regularly to join this group in the
next meeting, next Sunday at 10 o'clock.

WEEK-END GUESTS

Kappa Alpha;’ Myra ‘Boynton, “Boe”
Skeen, Lilian La Conte, Atlanta, Ga.;
Emma Catchron, Louise Lee, Charlotte;
Sally: Linston, Statesville; Julia Reed
Rosenborough, Jacksonville, Fla.; Dollie
spfrell, Winston-Salem; Frances Maul-
den, Bristol; Martha Robinson, Gastonia.

Kappa Sigma: Lou Ellen Best, Tine
Thompson, Emma Holliday, Converse;
Elizabeth Player, Laura York, Sarah Har-

-’ grove, Winthrop; Jennie Wolfe, Dollie

Moore, Charlotte; Alice Caldwell, Salem;)
eek Ponty Lib 2 sth Rock} _

For Tennessee, Luke Lea of Nashville,

ville Tennessean, the Memphis Contmer- |
cial Appeal and the Atlanta Constitution.
For South Carolina, McDavid Horton,
editor of “The State” at Columbia.

For Georgia, Edgar B.
yer by profession, in Gainesville.

For Alabama, Dr. James S. Thomas,

bama.

Wildcat Serenaders
Lately Reorganized

A complete reorganization of the Wild-
cat Serenaders was recently effected. The
orchestra changed their name from The
Wildcat Serenaders to the Sunnyland
Serenaders and made a few changes as to
personnel, The orchestra is a regular

‘unit of the ‘Glee.Club and makes all the

trips with that organization. It also has
many private engagements on its own
program playing for various banquets and
social gatherings throughout this section.

The personnel of the reorganized Sun-
nyland Serenaders is as follows: Gordon
McSwain, trombone; Owen Geer, first
trumpet; J. R. McCravey, second trum-
pet; Charlie Albright, banjo and, director
of the orchestra; A. J. Thorhpson, first
saxaphone; J. Hy Ramseur, second saxo-
phone; Howard Reid Mobley, piano; Karl
Mosely, drums; and Oscar Gibson, tuba.

The orchestra is carrying on negotia-
tions with prominent steamship lines with
the objective of procuring a position on
one of the liners running between New
York and Europe and points, during the
summer.

Norman Shearer to
Head Big Program

There will be a number of excellent
pictures at the Davidson Theater next
week. On Monday, Ramon. Navarro in
“The Student Prince” will probably be
shown. This is a new picture, and is said
to be splendid by all those who have seen
it. Norma Shearer co-stars with Ramon
Navarro in this.

Harry Langdon, the popular comedian,
will appear in “The Chaser.” This is one

For Florida, B. C. Riley, connected with
the University of Florida at Gainesville.
~For Louisiana, Loren R. Brooks, con-

Dunlap, a iawes and to
| homes

nected with the Times-Picayune at New
Orleans.

For Mississippi, Alexander Fitz-Hugh,
, with the firm of P. P. Williams & Com-

prominently connected with the Nash-’ pany at Vicksburg.

The object of the camps is to teach
respect for proper authority; develop
_self-reliance and decision; stimulate pa-
| triotism and promote good citizenship;
return the candidates to their
physically improved, mentally
broadened, and with a better understand-

connected with the University of Ala-, ing of their country and their obligations
«| to it as citizens

funniest pictures of the year. Joan Craw-

Those who have seen her in some of her
other pictures will realize that this one
can’t be missed.
again, this time in “The Latest from
Paris.”

Rin-Tin-Tin, the wonder dog, in ‘The

Dog of the Regiment” will be shown on

picture.

follows:

Monday—Ramon Navarro in “The Stu-
dent Prince.”

Tuesday—"“Good Time Charley.”

Wednesday—“The Chaser,”
Harry Langdon.

featuring

Thursday—“Rose Marie,”
Crawford.

starring Joan

Friday—Norma Shearer in “The Latest
from Paris.”

with Rin-Tin-Tin’

Complete line of Wright

and G

of his latest comedies and is one of the

ford in “Rose Marie” will be on Thursday.

On Friday, Norma Shearer will appear |

Saturday. This is said to be a fine dog

The program for next week will be as

Saturday—“The Dog af the Regiment,”

Southern Glee Club
Conference in S. C.

The Southern Glee Club Conference will
be held in Greenville, S. C., on Friday,
February 10. Most of the important gol-
leges and universities of the South will
be represented at this meeting held in
the Textile Hall, one of the best audi-
toriums in Greenville. There they will
discuss the business matters and past
meets, and also set a date for the next
conference.

Duke University, who recently won first
place in the North Carolina Glee Club
Contest, will be represented. © Guilford
and State will also have men there. Da-
vidson, who took second place at Durham,
will send Director Cullum and John Fos-
ter, president of the -lub, as their rep-
resentatives. At the meet in Durham,
Davidson was only six-tenths of a point
behind the leading club.

Governor Richards of South Carolina
will attend the conference, as well as
many other important individuals of the
southern states. The full quota is ex-
pected.

and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
oldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BUSINESS APPRECIATED

Students, Our Pla

E. N- LINKER, Owner
Phone &2-J

MAYHEW ’S

CLEANERS AND DYERS

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
nt is at Your Service

DICK GREY, Representaative
Davideon, N. C.

—

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

Se W [

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

RICHMOND,

IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE A TEACHER, YOU WILL FIND AT UNION SEMINARY WIDE AND
STIMULATING CONTACTS, AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE TASK OF MAKING PREACHERS

VIRGINIA

a

“Seventy-

Sd
ee

Setsion Opens September 19, aoe

VIEW OF THE STUDENT BODY OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, SESSION OF 1926-1927

The following quotation is from the last annual report to the General Assembly

“Of the 148 men enrolled, 10] are college graduates, 29 have had college courses in part and 18 have had no ; gollegs training.”
three colleges and universities are represented in the student body.
also the Phillipine Islands, and six foreign counteies---Brazil, Canada, China, Hol and, Korea and Persia.”

“In-addition to those above enumerated, there is an enrollment of 14 non-resident students purztirg the course leading to the

| degree of Doctor of Einlty. ”

Eighteen States of the Union are represented.

c

Catalog on request

