THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

isd PRIEL,

tes

OTS ae
—

co

5

‘The busiest line
in town

When you call our number
4 and the operator says
“line’s busy”, § and after
you ve tried ten times more
the chief operator says @
“there’s conversation on
the line”—the explanation
is simple enough.

(ares

a>

vy
Dig

The New Spring Braeburns
are here and they're some~
thing to talk about

BS $40 $45

MELLON’S

BELK BROTHERS CO.

A Sale of Over 1000 New White
BROADCLOTH SHIRTS

Collars Attached. Pretty Quality Broadcloth. All Sizes.
On Special Sale Now

$1.35 or 3 for $4.00

(Come and See the NEW SPRING SUITS and HATS

BELK BROTHERS CO.

Satisfaction

_ Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
Meet Your Friends Here

MR. KENDALL WEISIGER

@
(Continued from page 1)
coast, bum over Europe, get over the

‘| home complex, and find out what is going

on in order to find the particular field in
which he could be interested for life.

The most successful vocation is the one
that arises from an avocation. The pay
motive and one’s natural desires are. in
such:a way carried over into-the realm of
work . Vocational guidance is to help the
student fit himself In his decision many
motives will enter. These are mainly the
self-assertive motives. that is egotism,
self-preservation, curiosity, and fine
workmanship. Then there are also the
sex motives and the social motives that
will influence his choice of work.

Before entering any established busi-
ness the young man should first study the
organization of the business and jean
just where to begin in the work: It is
not necessary, as has been the long-estab-
lished opinion, to begin at the bottom
and take all the hard knocks of the in-
dustry. Before he enters, the man is
capable to start on a certain level and hé

should. not necessarily start lower. The}:

job should also be analyzed. It should

be one of which there is the chance for |

success, one to which
given, of which one can be proud, which
offers a life-time work and above all one
in which there is room for advancement.

The vital message which Mr. Weisiger
brought was not to take the college di-
ploma too seriously. The diploma is not
a statement of a man’s worth. It is sim-
ply the evidence that he has completed
the job.

DAVIDSON MATMEN

(Continued from page 1)

periods. Time advantage 2:42,

175tb class—Capt. Woodbury, V. M. I.
defeated Hill, Davidson. Time advan-
tage 9:06.

Unlimited class—Christenberry, David-
son, threw Haase, V. M. V., with a body
and arm hold. Time 5:38.

DR. BEN LACY

(Continued from page 1) |
preacher is set a little apart from his fel-
lows. He is set upon a pedestal as a
model. 2, The long period of prepara-
tion appears a disadvantage for many.

7%. Many ‘arésensitive about speaking in

public 4. The choice of the Iccation of
home is removed ‘from one’s desires to
the dictates of his conscience, 5. Pe-
cuniary rewards are less in the ministry.
But these disadvantages are each over-
balanced by a greater advantage. 1, The
vocation is not an overcrowded One, 2.
There is a great variety of work in the
ministry. A friend to the judge and to
the criminal, to the rich and poor, to the
sick and healty, he has a chance to come
into contact and to teach in a great va-
riety of ways. 3. It is an adventurous
life. In the mountains of West Virginia,
North Carolina, in the plains of Arkansas
the minister has a horde of possibilities
for adventure. 4. It isa lasting work.
Its results do not pass with time but are
for eternity. 5, Lastly, this calling is
most like that of the Master. Through it
one can become most like Him, and enter
into the fullest fellowship with Him.

The first week of the program pre-
sented by the Vocational Guidance Insti-
tute has been devoted to the ministry as
a possible choice for life work. The pro-
stam was so arranged as to be of bene-
fit not only to those who had not defi-
nitely decided to go into the ministry but
also to those who have dedicated their
lives to that service.

The Y. M.C. A. procured several out-
standing ministers to be on the hill for
four nights this week. Monday night, Dr.
E. G. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park
Presbyterian Church of Charlotte was on
the campus and was interviewed by all
the men who wished to talk to him con-
cerning..the problems of the minister in
the city church.

Tuesday night Dr. R. D. Daffin, a mis-
sionary to Brazil, held interviews with all
thosé who were considering work in the
foreign field and were interested in the
problems that the missionary has to meet.
Wednesday night Dr. Ben R. Lacy, pres-
ident of Union Theological Seminary
made the formal speech for the week.

Tonight Rev. J. M.’ Walker who is

Pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian |.

Church near Charlotte, said to be the
largest country Church in the ‘Southern
Assembly, will hold interviews with all

those men who wish to talk to him on the

loyalty can be|

Tr d some suggestions calling for frequent
eh aa * iad nk eS etna en MaRibly: SELES, oratorical contests,
ta eadiien re these men a group of | and special features on campus problems.
ministers in the surrounding territory | They also Becommended that faculty dish
have graciously offered their ee oot) bers be included to give variety to the

i ny Davidson man | programs. ;
his eka ese ade fot with them atany| There was a new enthusiasm evident
time concerning ‘the ministry, its preparay | throughout the meeting, and all present
tion, problems and life. They wiil be} seemed determined to back the societies
glad to have any student to call at their | to the limit.
homes. They are: Dr. A. S. Johnson,| At the close of the meeting nineteen
pastor First Presbyterian Ghurch; Dr.| men signified their intention of joining
Edgar Gammon, pastor Myers Park Pres- the Phi or of renewing an old allegiance.
byterian Church, 506 Queens Road; Dr.) A larger number also expressed a desire
Chas. R. Nisbet, pastor Caldwell Memorial | to join the Eumeaean. :
| Presbyterian Church, 1706 Park Drive; In order to make literary society mem-
Dr, Luther Little, pastor First Baptist | bership open to every man on the cam-
|Church, North Tryon Street; Bishop E.| pus it was decided to abloish the five dol-
lA. Penick, Bishop North Carolina Dio-| 'ar initiation fee for any men who wish
cese, 310 Monroe Road, all of Charlotte,| to join this spring. The Eumenean de-

and Dr C, E. Raynol, pastor First Pres-| cided to make its dues one dollar per
byterian Church, Statesville; Dr. R. A. semester instead of two.
White, pastor Presbyterian Church,! As a result of the new interest shown,
| Soresvilies Rev. Edgar Woods, pastor especially among juniors and seniors it
| Presbyterian Church, Salisbury; and Dr. seems that although society work was
| Jesse Rowan, pastor Presbyterian Church, , “down,” it is due for a big “comeback.
| Concord, N.'C. | Although it is realized that the two soci-
| | eties can never hold the center of the
| Stage as they once did, still there is a
| conviction that literary society work
| should hold a worth while place on the
[Seo of every liberal arts college.

PHI LITERARY SOCIETY
(Continued from page 1) ,
| ly reorganized Phi Society might be more
successful than ever, ; |
Boyce Martin and Walter Lingle ex- (Continued from page 1)
pressed the opinion that lack of interest-' one to follow the conference, at which
ing prgorams had played a large part in time the delegates will lead a discussion
the decline of the societies They present- of the problems raised there.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY and TUESDAY
February 20 and 21. Lon Chaney in “The Big City”

I. R. C. HEARS DR. BROWN

|
|
|
|
|
|

WEDNESDAY
| February 22. Richard Dix in “Sporting Goods”

THURSDAY

February 23. Bebe Daniels in ‘Feel My Pulee”

3 FRIDAY
February 24. Poli Negri in “‘The Secret Hour”

SATURDAY
February 25. <A Bob Custer Western

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS . :
R, ‘I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier?

A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

4 FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

A. DUNN, President

The New
OR THOPHONIC

VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

AANDREW’S
MUSIC STORE

213N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

