ah) Mn

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Rev. J. R. Woods, ’18, who has been pro-
fessor of missions at Union. Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va., for the past four
years, will leave soon for Elsa, Texas, where
he will do home mission work in the Rio
Grande valley. Mr. Woods has been con-
nected with the seminary since‘his graduation
there in 1924 with the highest honors.

An invitation has been received in the
alumni office to attend the centennial cele-
bration of Columbia Theological Seminary,
at Atlanta, Ga., May 20th to May 23rd.
Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D.D., ’04,; is president
of this institution. Rev. KG M. Fraser, D.D.,
’76, of Staunton, Va., will deliver the bacca-
laureate sermon to open the graduating ex-
ercises of that:seminary. Davidson alumni
who will complete their theological work at
Columbia are J. M. Richards, ’22, and Claude
McIntosh, ’26.

Dr. Charles C. Orr, ’95, of Asheville, has
been elected governor for the eleventh dis-
trict of Optimist International, at the con-
vention held recently in Asheville. This dis-
trict comprises all Optimist clubs in North
and South Carolina.

Rev. J. C. Rowan, D’D., 04, of Concord, t

will preach the baccalaureate sermon of East
Carolina Teachers’ College, on Sunday, June
3fd. J. Bayard Clark, '05, of Fayetteville,
will deliver the commencement address. on
Monday, June Sth.

H. L. Shelby, , wh
at the Aiahama Military [ne'

ton,

"27

Ada., will attend Duke

year’ and. hes been annoui

assistant ir Bid

Rey. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., 8°, ;
»f the Ponabeni ‘nt Presbf¥ecrian C! h
Savannah, Ga, will tour western Eure

summer via commercia! lines, and

completion of his air tour will write a series |

of articles entitled, “With Wings, a Bird’s-
eye View of Western Europe.” The Sun-
day Journal and Sentinel, of Winston-Salem,
has announced that they have exclusive
North Carolina rights to these articles. Dr.
: Anderson is a trustee of Davidson, will at-
tend the meeting here May 29th, and will
take part in the cornerstone exercises that
afternoon. :

Rev. C. G. Long, ’21, of Albemarle, was
elected temporary clerk of Mecklenburg
Presbytery at its recent meeting, when the
opening sermon was preached by Rev.:J. M.
Walker,
ator. Among the commissioners elected to
the General Assembly meeting in Atlanta
was Rev. C. H. Rowan, '15, of Paw Creek.
Dr. W. J..Martin, ’88, president of Davidson,
also attended and spoke in behalf of the
college.

Friends will regret to learn of the death,

of Mrs. R. D. Stimson, mother of Rev. R.
M. Stimson, ’08, of Chattanooga, Tenn.
Mrs, Stimson’s death occurred last week. at
the. home of her son, and her body was
brought to Statesville, her old home, when
interment took place Sunday.

Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, of . Charlotte,
preached the baccalaureate sermon to the
graduates of St. Peter’s Hospital last Sun-
day.

J. A. Gaither, ’95, has been re-elected to

succeed himself as a town commissioner of |.

Newton.

New addresses recently obtained are:

M. C. Martin, ’88, 818 Kayton Ave., San
Antonio, Texas.

P. B. Carwile,
Bethlehém, Pa.

J. G. Smith, '94, 1221 25th St, Sacramento,
California.

Rev. J. W. Witherspoon, *20, Shepards-
_ town, W. Va.
Rev. T. H. Patterson, '22, R. F. D., Lex-|

‘on, Va.
ae Bailey, '23, Franklin Squire H Hos-

ise Baltimore, Md._ ;

Rev. J. S. Robinson, 13, Route 6, ven
les, Ky.
Rev. J. L. Yanil

Manly O. Sisk«

ail-

'94. Tarboro, N.C.

), State Hos

|
|
|

pital, Utica, C. V, Brown and A, M. Martin, Da-

Brown and Martin Win
Religious Fellowship
At Louisville Seminary

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Camfield »McClure,
of Chester, S. C., announce the engagement
of their daughter, Mary, to Mr. Everett

N. Y. | vidson Grads, Take Theological Phifer Nisbet, of Charlotte, ie wedding to
W. P. Anderson, 07, 26 Beaver St. New! Honors take place in June. Mr. Nisbet, the second
York, N. Y. son of Dr. and Mrs. W. O. Nisbet, of Char-
J. A. Thi 122 Marv! Ave,| With records» of consistent achievement | lotte was graduated from Davidson en the
N. E., Washinton, 1), ( and scholastic proficiency to their credit, two | “lass of ‘17, and is a brother of W. O. Nisbet,
Davidson College alumni were recipients of Jr., member: of the present Senior class.
A. R. Muss, ute 2, B » | fellowships and high honors at. the com- = ——
re wie ak a, ingle Geatnty wo weeds kag CME Ap in pursuing post-graduate work in
laa ay fs : Woe) ares | the same subject. ‘Mr. Brown graduated
Rev. Jotn W. Groves, 22, Lexi 1, Miss. Victor Brown, Jr., ’24, was awarded a fel-| from Davidson in '24, and for a year there-

D. T. Bradshaw, ’' Boy Williams,
Arizona.

Albert Lyons, Jr., '26, care Commercial
Credit Co., Roanoke, Va.

Rev. I. M. Thomas, Jr., 18, Spring City,
Tenn,

H. L. Parry, '’84, 603 Cour: House, At-
lanta, Ga.

Clifton Murphy, ’13, 37 Wall Street, New
York, N. Y.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits.
Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N.C

’07, of Charlotte, retiring moder-.

20, 627 Séventh Ave.,

We offer aset of four Clubs and

lowship in religious education and Arthur | after was a member of the faculty at McCal-
M. (“Piggy”) Martin, '25, received a fellow- | ji School, at Chattanooga. After a brief
ship in church history. ‘),vacation he will take up his duties as associ-
The endowment of the fellowsnip im reli- | ate pastor “of the Beckley Presbyterian
gious education, received by Mr. Brown, | Church, Beckley, W. Va., and plans later to
was given to the Seminary last year by Mr.| pursue post-graduate studies.
and Mrs, Olaf Anderson, of Louisville, and) The fellow ship in church history, awarded
this was the first time that it had beet lito Mr. Martin, was endowed last year by
awarded to one of the Seminary graduates. | | Henry E. Dosher, and was awarded this
The fellowship goes to that member of the | 'year for the first time. It was won by Mr.
graduating class who has done the best work | | Martin as a result of his work in church his-
in religious education during his seminary tory while a seminary student. Mr. Martin
course, and is for the purpose of assisting the | graduated from Davidson in ’25. Following
| his graduation from the Seminary two weeks
ago, he went to Savannah, Ga., his home,
) where he. will take over the' duties of
| tant pastor M the Independent Presbycerian
*! Church of that city. He intends to pursue
graduate work in church history
later date.

assist

at some

“But when I was ‘handed these cigarettes, one by
one, I realized at once that there was a difference
and that the test was conclusive. One cigarette
was so much more appealing, so much more
delicate in flavor. Oh, and so much smoother!

“When the test was over and I was told that the
cigarette of my choice was O_p Go tp I understood

' at once why this cigarette is so popular among
my American friends.”

hima Gawvctietoa af

r ]

ghee Ne ere

~ Blindfolded ..

leading €ivarettes, Prince

selects O LD

“I was much intrigued by the invitation to make
a blindfold test of your leading brands of Ameri-
can cigarettes, to see how they compared with
each other and with those I had smoked abroad.
-. Could one really taste the difference? I wondered.

SMOOTHER AND

Ten Alumni Get Charges
From Richmond Seminary

Pastorate Accepted by Ten Davidson
Men—Brown And Lacy Speak

Ten Davidson graduates, members - of
the Senior class-at the Union Theological
Seminary, have been awarded pastorates
and will report for duty at the conclusion
of the commencement exercises at the
Seminary this week. Rev. E. D. Brown,
’93, of Statesville, has been selected to de-
liver the annual address to the graduating
class and Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., ’06,
president of the Seminary, will make the
final address to the students.

The former Davidson students who have
been assigned churches are: H. D. Brown,
Jr., '25, of Wilson, will go to Lynchburg,
Va.; M. P. Calhoun, ’23, of Laurinburg,
will return to Seminary as Salem Fellow;
J. McLeod Carr, ’25, of Burgaw, who will
go to Berryville, Va.; Ira T. Hager, '26,
of Davidson, who goes to Keysville, Va:;
S. E. Howie, ’22, of Charlotte, who goes to
Pontotoc, Miss.; A. C. Ray, ’25, of Pitts-
boro, who will be at Hebron, Va.; W. G..
Thomas, ’25, of Charlotte, who will be at
Ellerbe, N. C.; and J. P. Taylor, Jr., ’19,
of Winston-Salem, N. C., who has not ac-
cepted work, and M. W. Doggett, Jr., ’22,
of Kingsport, Tenn., who has cacepted a
pastorate at Edenton.

sOL

‘in scientific test of
Ay &! “GS et ¢ re re
éss Paul Chavchavadze

D

PRINCESS PAUL CHAVCHAVADZE, Sister of

Subject was blindfolded, and, in

the presence of two responsible

witnesses, was given one each

of the four leading cigarettes

: to smoke. To clear the taste,
Bet coffee was served before each
cigarette. The Princess was en-

rettes, the

BETTER

Mrs. Wm. B. Leeds

How Test Was Made

tirely unaware of the identity
of these cigarettes during test.
After smoking the four ciga-

Princess was asked to

designate by number her choice.
Without hesitation she replied,
“No.3”... which was OLD GOLD.

NOT. A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
