2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

¢.

——

ote Sport Talk -:

News and Views of Wildcat
Events

By Raymond Lake

The Wildcats: have started off their base-
ball season with a bang. - They downed the
strong Oak Ridge team*last Friday by the
score of 10 to 5, and showed good form all
through the game. With the exception of a
few errors made at one point during the
game, the team played unusually well for
this early in the season ‘and raised the Wild-
cat stock quite a bit.

The team seemed to have its batting eye in
fine shape. They slugged out several long
hits and did.consitlerably better in this aspect
of the game than their opponents, and prob-
ably considerably better than the majority
of the spectators were expecting them to do.
Johnson, the star outfielder for the Wildcats,
was probably the heaviest hitter of the day.
Littlejohn also had his eye on the ball and
succeeded in knocking out a three-hagger
during the course of the game.

The Wildcats used three hurlers against
the Cadets, but McInnis was easily the star’
of the game. Meadows started the game,
but the visitors soon learned to hit his balls
fairly accurately, and he was called out and
replaced by McInnis, This moundman slow-
ed down the Cadet stock immediately and
held them to three runs for several. innings,
they having made two in the first inning.

Toward the last of the game McInnis was |has shown exceptional speed and ability and |
relieved by Henderson, who kept up the |bids fair to become another, Goodykoontz. |
| Pushing him close for second place are Glenn |

good work started by the second pitcher.

The State High School track meet last Sat- |
urday was quite a success in point of num-
bers as well as in point of the impression
made on the high school visitors by the
home of the Wildcat. Several of the con-
testants werg,heard to express a very favor-
able opinion of Davidson and a desire to
matriculate here in the next year or so.
This annual meet not only furnishes a con-
venient location for the high school stars to.
meet each other, but also is quite an adver- |
tisement for Davidson. As was said of the!

annual Athletic Night in this column two.

weeks ago, the annual track meet is just one |
more accomplishment of Coaches Monk and
Tex. pata

The Freshman nine continues to improve.
During the past week several more of their
candidates have shown up well, and the team
seems to be getting along much better to-
.gether. Coach Monk Younger is quoted as
having said that the.team looks better than
any other Freshman team at this time of the
year since he has been here. Of course there
have been no unusually good teams in the
last few years, but both of the coaches seem
to be well pleased with the candidates, and
the outlook for the team is bright.

Wildkitten Trackmen to
Present Splendid Team

Dash Men and Jumpers Show
Up Well

The “Wildkittens’” first track meet of the
season will be held tomorrow afternoon at

3:30 o'clock, on Richardson Field. Their
opponents come from Charlotte High. . It is
interesting to remember that Charlotte High
School has won the All-State High School

track meet for the past three years. Char-

|lotte made her poorest showing of the three

meets last Saturday, at which time she de-
feated her nearest rival by a margin of 12

points. From this data we can easily gather

some idea of the strength of Charlotte High
as ompared with the other leading high
schools of the state. ;

Some of the Freshmen have been showiny
up especially well in the various events this
spring, according to Coach Tilson. Neal, the
leading contender in all three of the dashes,

and Dan Goodykoontz. McCall has also
shown up well in the dashes. In the 220-yard
low hurdles, Denis promises great things for
the team. George is “going good” in second
place. Cable shows up well in the javelin
throw, having won that event last year in the
State High School meet. In all probability
Fraley and Overman will throw the discus
as they have shown themselves easily superior
to all other contenders in this event.

Although the line-up has not yet been defi-
nitely announced, these men have shown
themselves consistently good, so we have
every reason to be optimistic in our views
as regards the forthcoming meet.

This week has a fairly heavy schedule on
in the way of athletic events. The first
track meet of the year, with State, here, and
the second baseball game of the year, with
Elon, will furnish quite a bit of entertain-
ment for the sport fans. Both these events
promise to be close and well worth seeing.
State seems to have quite a good track team
this year, and the Elon baseball team always
is to be considered as a strong opponent.
The fatter is reported to have two of the best
pitchers in the state this year and this makes
their threat doubly strong.

CLO

HATS

SWEATERS

EVENING

March 30 and 31 |

AND

Srfidition

SHOES
TIES

DRESS

Showing at

Miss Minnie’s

James S, Branch, Rep.

SUITS AND TOPCOATS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS

TAILORED 70 MEASURE

THES

CAPS

HOSTERY

ACCESSORIES

Friday and Saturday

MORE

Wildcat Hitters Enable |
Red and Black to Take |

_ First Game With Cadets.
McInniss Saves Game by Sterling |
Relief Work |

TEAM HITS WELL

Batting Rally in Fifth Sews Game
up for Cats—Three Hurlers |
Used |
peste SN |
Monk Younger and Captain Johnnie Ditin:
got their heads together last Friday after-
noon’ and decided that these Oak Ridge
Cadets who for so many seasons have thrown
terror-into the camp of the Scotch Wildcat
should be tamed once and for all. Asa re-
;sult of this deep and earnest conference,
| some splendid relief pitching. by a young
| Sophomore, pitching his first varsity game,
| and some timely and determined swatting by
jthe ’Cat batsmen, the Red and Black tucked
jaway a decisive victory over these Cadets
and opened the current season in fine style.
The score was 10-5, far more than most of
the optimistic fans had hoped for, and the
rumor is now current that the 1928 edition
of the Wildcat baseball team will go a long
way in the state race this spring.

True, Joe Meadows got off to a bad start
and was unable to hold the slugging Cadets
in check, the visitors ramming out three hits’
and pushing over two runs before the ’Cats
could settle down, but Younger, quick to
sense the critical moment, rushed McInnis
to the hillock, and this Sophomore not only
stemmed the tide, but turned the game into
a ’Cat victory by his masterly twirling, The
Cadets never really thereatened after Mc-
Innis’ advent.

Meanwhile, Johnson and Harrison vere
getting busy with the willow, and aided by
their teammates, drove Wilson, the starting
hurler for the visitors, to the showers in the
fifth stanza. Five tallies came over. in this
canto, sewing the game up for good.

Thefost gratifying thing about this game
was the improved fielding of the Red and
Black men. The infield gives promise of
being much better than last year’s inner
garden, and the outfield needs no comment.
Just how good these ’Cats are going to be
will be decided in the game with the Elon
Christians here next Thursday afternoon.
As usual the Christians are strong, boasting
two of the state’s best pitchers. A win over
these invaders will mean a great deal to
Monk and his men.

The box score and summary :

OAK RIDGE ABR HPOA
IMIONHIS) Masco Sei e ee ett 300 3 0
Goodson, 2b -----.--_____- Se 291 323
neice. Chest nare Gc) 42240
Durham) lb sa-2 see ee Sik they 51
Faulkner, If --..-----_-2___ 40120
Beaver, tt so ee 30000
Howard, 3b __......----- 30d 2.4
Hayworth,)c 2.222.022. 5, 400 5 1
WAISOn Sp eae oo toa 2-0 00 2
Hoggard,sp coc 20000
PUmstead’ sce Coase na i) 1000:0
LE Ee ae AMEE 32 5 624 8
,| DAVIDSON ABR HPOA
Harrison, 2b ~__-__...____ x jae Eyer ba)
Ratchford, cf ~-/.---_____. 40 ele
DulinjSb Ge sys 41102
Crawford, 1b -.------_____ 41190
Johnson, cf ~---------___- 51340
Kugler, rf-ss.-.....________ 421i od
Littlejohn, ss ---____.--____ es bF 141
McConnell, rf -...--------- 20010
Cite eee $21-5,3
Pater pereenten tice 00000
"Ags Shae A AA aN 21012
Diane se 00000
4 10 1 2 12

Norris Trophy Awarded
to Leading Athlete Soon

Famous Cup Presented to Best
Athlete at Commencement

This year, as formerly, the Norris Candy
Company, of Atlanta, Ga., will present its
trophy cup to the best all-round athlete in
Davidson College. The awarding of the
Norris cup is undoubtedly one of the out-
standing events of the entire college year,
and the man who wins this coveted honor has
attained a high place in the athletic halls of
Davidson for time immemorial. The best
athlete is selected during the spring elections
by a student body vote, and the presentation
of the trophy occurs during the commence-
ment exercises of the college. Student in-
terest reaches a high pitch during the selec-
tion of the honor athlete, and for a time
each spring this subject holds the center of
all attention in campus “bull sessions” and
drug store sport dope. It is thought that

Score by innings: RHE
Oak Ridge 200 003 000— 5 6 2

Summary—Errors: Goodson 2, Littlejohn
2, Gugler 1; three-base hit: Crawford; two-
Davidson 310 051 00x—10 11 3
base hits: Pierce, Harrison, McAulay, Lit-
tlejohn; sacrifice hits: Beaver, McInnis;
stolen base: Pierce, Harrison; hits off Wil-
son: 10 with 9 runs in 4 2-3 innings, off
Hoggard, 1 with 2 runs in 3 1-3 innings, off
Meadows: 3 with 2 runs in 2-3 inning, off
McInnis, 3 with 3 runs in 8 innings, off
Henderson, 0 with 0 runs in 1-3 inning; base
on balls: off Wilson 5, off Hoggard 2, off
Meadows 1, off McInnis 2; struck out: by.

Wilson 3, by Hoggard 2, by McInnis Q; hit |

by pitched ball: by Wilson (McInnis) ; wild
pitch: McInnis; passed balls: McAulay,
Hayworth; left on base: Oak Ridge 4, Da-
vidson 9; losing pitcher: Wilson; winning

pitcher: McInnis; umpire: Brandon; time:
2:10.

'Southern Colleges
Meet Golfers Soon

i a)

Golf at Davidson will this spring take on
| more business-like proportions, and a team
‘will be placed in the field that is expected to
lrank high in collegiate circles of the South.
| Mills. Wilson and Martin are back from last
| year’s team, and Lingle and Pepper are
fighting hard for positions on the first String
isquad. These men agg@Pplaying an elimina-
tion series at the present time to determine
‘which of them shall play in the coming meet
| with Washington and Lee University, at
| Charlotte, on April 4th.

Four men will play on a team. The two-
| some matches will be played in the forenoon
land will be for 18 holes. The afternoons
| will be taken up with the foursomes, also for
18 holes.

Besides the W. and L. mect, contracts
have been signed for meets with Carolina,
on April 12th, either at Chapel Hill or at
Greensboro. Carolina will again be met on
April 23rd, either at Charlotte or at David-
son. Duke University will be met at the
| Sedgefield Country Club, at Greensboro, on
| April 13th, and on April. 14th the team will
enter the state intercollegiate meet, also to
be held at the Sedgefield Club. Members
of the Big Five will be represented in this
tournament and it is strictly a collegiate
affair.

With this pretentious schedule ahead of
them, the golf team must work hard, but it
is believed that the material is at hand and
that a good season is in the offing for Da-
vidson golfers.

this year, the “D” Club, an association of
letter men, will nominate four men for the
consideration of the student body. Hitherto
the election has been of an absolutely open
nature, the candidates receiving their ‘nomi-
nations at the hands of the student body.

It is safe to say that the presentation of
the Norris trophy cup has done a great deal
to create a fine spirit of athletic competition
on the Davidson campus. Men are. stimu-
jated to friendly competition of the highest
order, and the cup has become a most cov-
eted honor. The winning of the cup means

not only that the winner is an outstanding:
athlete, but that he is a Davidson gentleman
of the very highest type. The student body
vote seldom fails to reach the right man.
Earnest Bohannon won the cup last year.

Sir Gallahad

Mounts the Pedestal
--and Sir Gallahad, attired in ap-

propriate garments, mounted the
pedestal and participated to the ex-
tent of his knightly qualifications.

Twice he strove; yea, even thrice; but alas
he was disqualified; for in those days REIS
JIMPANTS and JIMSHIRTS were un-

known, and inferior equipment wasa handicap.

The young man of today demands fashion-

able equipment, and youth will be served.

We have a complete

assortment from which

you may make your selection; plaids, stripes,

with shirts to match.

this comfortable underwear at popular prices

and checks in pleasing color combinations

Supply yourself with

| The Students Store

| “IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”

