THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

Vien

—— eT) Rak le i

FEATURES

RETIRING EDITOR ‘

(Continued from page 1)
team for three years, ‘he recently brought
additional honor te himself and his col-
lege by winning the North Carolifia Col-
legiate title at the Sedgefield Country Club
of Greensboro, :

Boyce Martin has been a consistent
student with a display of exceptional
ability along literary lines. Not only has
this been the case in classrooms but as
poetry editor of The Chameleon and as
one of the leading actors and dramatic
writers of the college.

His abilities have been recognized away
from his “home country” as he holds the
position of secretary-treasurer of the
Southern Students Association. He is in
attendance at the annual meeting at the
University of Alabama

at the present
time,

Martin is a member of Sigma Alpha|
Epsilon, social, and his home is Atlanta, |
Ga. His honors listed in Quips and}
Cranks should contain the following:
Omicron Delta Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha : |
Sigma Upsilon >Welta Pi Kappa; I. R. C.:|
Reporters Club; Red and Black Mask-|
quers; Student Council; “Y” Cabinet ; |
Golf Team; secretary Y, M. C, A seas
President Junior -Class; athletic editor |
Quips and Cranks; poetry editor The
Chameleon; editor-in-chief The David-
sonian; Sanity Rare staff; chairman Jun-|
ior Week Committee; assistant manager
basketball; Golden Quill, etc., etc., ad in-
finitum,

COVINGTON TO EDIT

(Continued from page 1)
Cranks has not yet been chosen, but Coy-
ington expects to complete the se eeaee |

of men for the various positions in a
short time.

R. C. Grady is a member of Pi Kappa
Phi social fraternity and one of the jun-
ior cheer-leaders, he is also a member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fra-
ternity. J. L. Ely is a member of Delta
Theta Chi fraternity and a wearer of the
cross-country “D.” G. A. Fry is past
president of the State Student Volunteer
Assocation.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks.
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows

Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

ee

Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C. .

FELLOW S!

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

HERE WE REST

There is always upon college campus some | From far and wide came the wondering vis-
spot that is hallowed by romantic memories. | itors to see the mighty work that the class
Davidson is no exception, for upon the} of 1899 had done.
campus rests the far-famed China-Berry| Mighty work always demands some fitting
tree. It has been the custom for years past ; Commemoration and thus the class decided
for the enamored youth and his lady friend|that the tree should be perpetuated on the
to walk slowly by the tree and perhaps rest | Spot of the fateful battle; a committe was
beneath its concealing shadows, with only | appointed to look after this during their stay
flickers of moonlight to filter through. But and so the China-Berry tree was secured and
back of every tradition there is a reason cared for. Time has erased the ravages of
and the present tradition of the China-Berry battle, a generous sun and wirfl-have caused
tree is in a vast contrast to the original , the tree to grow and ary eee has
meaning of its being. grown up around the base of the tret.a stone
j bench placed there by a Senior class that

Back in the “good ofd days” when the | presents concrete benches all over the cam-

Freshman was a thing to be hidden from the | pus, and thus the beneficient moon has caused
evil eye of the Sophomore there was quaint | the old tradition to pass and a flewer and

old custom of “bumping” the Freshmen | kinder sentiment attached.

FEI Lege aha venous ae eda ane And now little children, Uncle Dinwiddie

K ety ee Re en pial ‘ :

ian % ae a) ak : be aealty aT has to go to bed, and if you are good, in the
4 «| “ a . a re y . .

Picataemme renege! Neoutaana cane: Sitter UMAR next issue he will tell you of some of the |

the last Sa i b ommence- |
“s t saturdey ight Before Guninence | strange anecdotes that have grown up around
ment.

Things had come to a bad’ pass, the | ;
‘ ithe tree. Good-night.
treatment of the Freshmen had become worse | :

and worse each year. Finally the class of | |

1899 decided to revolt. Accordingly on the | pene

fateful night a group of the doomed Fresh- | : Y” CABINET
men gathered together at a low bush where | TEI rae etn
they laid on the ground to escape detection. |
Before the night passed away they were |
found and attacked. Finding there were too |
many of the Freshmen, the Sophomores tried |
to bring them out one by one. This the |
Freshmen resisted and when one of them
was dragged forth the class would rally
around and rescue or protect him. The night |
finally passed, as it was wont to do in those
days, and the day dawned upon a Victorious |
Freshman class, that lay exhausted around a |
small tree or rather bus, and on all sides
there lay stretched out in mortal fear the
remains of the once mighty Sophomore class.

(Continued from page 1)
Personal Work—Mac King.
World Evangelism—Bob Kell.
Sunday School—Glen Frye.
Freshman Work—Riggs McConnell.
Handbook—W., K. Pritchett.
Vocational Guidance—Bob Covington.
Weekly Meetings—Monroe Gilmour.
Deputations—F, R. Brown.
Attendance—Z, V. Long.
Chapel Services—Nelsof Myers.
Social Service—DeWitt Helm.
Boys’ Work—Reid Graham,
Church Relations—Dick Flinn.

cy $e
?

(3

(Reproduced by Courtesy of America’s Humor)

One of the’ Smith Brothers meets the
manufacturer of “Old Gold” cigarettes.

Blindfolded

in scientific test of leading Cigarettes,

Photograph of JaMEs MONTGOMERY FLaca,
taken in bis studio while test was being made

How Test Was Made

Subject was blindfolded, and, in the presence of
two responsible witnesses, was given one each
of the four leading cigarettes to smoke. To clear
the taste, coffee was served before each cigarette
-..Mr. Flagg was entirely unaware of the identity
of these cigarettes during test. After smoke
ing the four cigarettes, Mr. Flagg was askéd to

James Montgomery Flagg selects

Old Gold

After this test, Mr. Flagg wrote:

‘*Most of us smoke names and think we are
smoking cigarettes! The blindfold test proved
that to me. It proved also that it is difficult
to tell one cigarette from another . . . except
in the case of OLD GOLD .. . I spotted that
- + - it suited me best even blindfolded. In
fact, the man who said ‘not a cough in a car-
load’ knew whereof he spoke. It’s the
smoothness that identifies OLD GOLD. It
needs no other trade mark.”’

LAWS MONONERY FLAGS

designate by number his choice.. He promptly
replied, ‘‘Number 2,”” which was OLD GOLD.

SMOOTHER AND BETTER—NOT A COUGH IN A GARLOAD

JAMES MONTGOMERY FLAGG—
Nationally known artist and creator of the
famous Flagg girl.

