, Page Two

THE DAVI

DSONIAN

Thursday, September 20, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published hard by the Students of
Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy

$2.00 the Collegiate Year.. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,

The Davidsonian
Wants

—to welcome everybody back
to Davidson.

—to see the freshmen fall into
line and become real Wildcats.
—everybody to push that team
on to a big victory over Gu'l-
ford.

—to call attention to the better
order during the chapel service.
—these freshmen to get the
“speaking habit.” *

—to commend those who rush-
ed the Fraternity Court to
completion in time for use at
the first of the term.
—comments in the “Open
Forum” column concerning the
new Davidsonian. Do you like
it or not?

—to thank the ‘Y” for helping
orient the new men s0 efficient-
ly, and making them feel at
home.
—everyone to cast a ‘straw?
ballot.

.

QUOTING SENATOR
ROBINSON -

However difficult it may be, this
journal purposes to maintain a
strictly non-partisan attitude both in
expression and implication through-
out this presidential campaign. But
reference is here made to the ad-
dress made by Senator Joseph T.
Robinson in Shearer Hall last Wed-
nesday, without condemning” his
cause and yet without voicing sanc-
tion.

As Davidsonians are entering and
re-entering the college for another
year in their life’s history it is well
to apply part of the Senator’s re-
marks :

He said, in part, as follows:

“Some of you will go forth, to
meet success in almost every sphere
of activity you enter, and others to
encounter failure. It is not the law
of life or nature that the ambitions
of all shall be realized or the efforts
which everyone puts forth shall be
rewarded with success. You have
this source of strength, that no mat-
ter who succeeds, no one can fail in
his own eyes if he employs every
effort and employs all his natural
powers to capacity to the end of his
life.”

The new year is Hey Upper-
classmen know something of what
to expect but the new men do not.
In truth, it is a new éxperience upon
which each one is entering. Some
will, in the Senator’s words, “meet
success in almost every sphere of ac-
tivity you enter” while here in col-

lege. Others will encounter a multi-
tude of failures. Numbers of men
are required to leave every year for
__ One reason or another, but there are
| many: others who fail to attain to
p encase of Christian man-

College or the Student Council.

So this exhortation: Now is the
time for good resolutions backed by
an enthusiastic practice. Now is a
better time to do hard work than the
night before examinations and it is
a better time to make a friend of the
fellow who sits in the adjoining seat
or rooms next door than the week

ticl ill :
PRT enetibe punished ‘wi before student elections. Today
* "AUBREY BROWN__......_..- Editor-in-chiet| there is,a better opportunity to get
W._M. POWELL-_-------- Business Manage | out and get some strength and life in
POTTORIAL Spart .._| one’s physical being or to read some
F. D. MILLER.-...-..--.-.--Managing Editor i ay ¥
C. M. PRATT, Managing Editor | “parallel” than there will be tomor-
R. F. ] anaging Editor
Z. Ns Ja) Editor | row.
Vv. A. a News eles :
P. B. ociety Editor ; ie
Dek SRSA iii Faitor Today is a better day than bak
‘ é “_-Assistant Editor eT >
j “Assistant Fslitor on to (anally Shady effort and a
Cc, ssociate Editor %s y
i “Associate Editor | ° ei natura powers to capa
v. ---Associate Editor | city” in this great new experience.
Se A Suri sBUSINESS STAFF
1 Fy Vip 006) Fe ey ea eae Asst. Bus. Mer
Hh 2 SARE atT ues DIFFERENT FORM BUT THE
. » a o s .
R. F. § —Cireulation Mer SAME SPIRIT
H. BR. Subscription Mer
H. .--Solicitor .
G. D. Solicitor | $25 SRatAte rr 4)
f IX “Solicitor An ambition of several years
a! -Solicitor) standing has been realized by the
REPORTERS’ CLUB present staff of The Davidsonian in
BLY. _.Preside ‘ ;
kW. Mepe @President | the change from a five to a six-col-
Be ALDERMAN as A CRA umn newspaper. In reality, there is
sy (odo poe 4 CRAGIN a a Pe pena there
A, FREW D. RUSK : ie
1. GRAHAM A, SISSON has een a departure rom the pre
sy MiG aged aurtelielsbelss W. ae WWEAV ER | vious size both in dimensions and in
J. P. McBRYDE ._J.V/ MIDDLETON page numbers, as is evident. There

is a new type employed in the writ-
ing of heads, and finally, a more de-
dartmentalized journal has heen
arranged.

The reason for the new make-up
is simply the demand for standard-
ization of column size and the idea
that a better and more modern pub-
lication would result from the addi-
tion of the extra column.

Being a student publication, The.
Davidsonian can be improved only
as the student body lends a hand
and makes its likes. and dislikes
known. The’ “Open Forum’ col-
umn is for this purpose.

On the surface there appears to
he a changed newspaper, but under-
neath and back of its there lie the
same traditions of “Old Davidson,”
even though the cut of Chambers
Building has been discarded; there,
too, are the same high ideals and
purposes that have always made the
heritage of Davidson men a rich
one, and they are constantly calling,
as they have in previous years, “For
a Better Davidson.”

r

TO 1932

Freshmen, having been welcomed
by practically every organization in
College, are now trying to get settled
in their new homes to a sufficient
degree to allow some study and a
little sleep between smokers, house-
parties and other entertainments of
the rushing season:

They have been advised as to how
to do almost everything that any

citizen of Collegia would ever have
to do but there will develop with

each day some circumstance which
has no set rule to be followed and
concerning which they will have to
rely on themselves perhaps more
than at any previous time in their
lives. But this is necessarily so and
good.

The purpose of this writing is
not, however, to give advice on the
manner of making a great success of
the first year of collefe life in any
of a number of activities but rather
to set forth an idea of the relation-
ship between freshmen and upper-
elassmen existing here.

Every upper-classman has been a
freshman and knows just what faces
the members of the present class
during this year. Every one of them
can remember something of the
temerity of those first days and will
be found to be sympathetic, after a
fashion, if he be approached in a
friendly rather than in a rebellious
manner. We are convinced that a
better condition exists on the local
campus, even with thé evils some-
times attached to the Court of Con-
trol system, than is extant at other
colleges , and | universities. | The
Freshman Regulations are not un-
reasonable and neither are they dif-
ficult to obey. They are a much bet-
ter alternative than the brutality of
typical hazing systems on other
campuses,

A word of advice to the freshmen: ‘

,
vi

Cosmic Chaos

Hotch Pot

News comes from Shanghai that the
price of wives has been limited by govern-
mental authority.. In other words, moth-
ers cannot demand more than one hun-
dred and fifty dollars from future sons-
in-law: This will doubtless seem htrange
to some, but it will be remembered that
in Oriental countries the groom or his
family must grant the dowry. Chinese
authorities place the blame for these un-
reasonable demands upon Communist in-
fluence, saying that the advocation of
“free marriage’ has created a greater
demand. But it must be recalled that
women have been in the minority in China
for centuries. In the heart of Thibet,
polyandry is still found; women at times
having as many as ten different husbands.
Earnest efforts are being made by the
Northern Chinese Government, however,
to control the situation and to reduce this
pagan custom.

Happy is the dog or pet which does not
have a fool for a master. That bromide,
“spare the rod and spoil the child,” might
easily be applied to many enthusiastic dog
lovers. The friends of Senora Margurita
de Salva marveled at her collection of
jewels, her well and delicately planned

Respect the uupper-classmen by
obedience to the regulations, if only
for these two reasons: 1. They
have already gone through the fresh-
man stage and were “Subject to the
same things that are bothering you,
2. They have done and are doing
their part to boost their.alma mater
and are therefore worthy of respect
from you new men who will have
your turn during the following three
or more, years.

CHAPEL TO THE FORE

There are good possibilities iti the
petition presented to the faculty by
a vote of the student body whereby
the chapel hour would be in chargé
of students and yet there are some
features which might not be worked
out so well,

That the form of service could be
improved is acknowledged but as to
whether the proposed manner would
make for betterment is doubtful. ,If
the plan as proposed by the insti-
gators of the movement would place
the leadership in the hand of some
student each morning then it would
hardly be a step forward. It would
be variety but the demand is not to
displace men of experience.and abil-
ity by inexperienced student leaders
just for the sake of variety. This
method would soon fail to appeal to
the student body because there
would not be enough confidence and
enough of faith in what was being
said, and the attention would lag
with numerous developing ‘“‘cold” in
evidence.

The proposal would be good if
the intention is to obtain men from
among the faculty, from the visitors
to the campus and from other
sources to lead the service. This
would be variety and at the same
time would bring seasoned thoughts

and expressions before the men for
their approval. There would be a
greater. degree of satisfaction than
would ever be forthcoming follow-
ing the amateurish efforts of stu-
dent leadership.

STRAWS TO SHOW THE WAY.
COLLEGIATE WINDS BLOW

Although a “straw vote” was con-
ducted here last spring before the
nominees of the democratic and re-
publican parties had been *presented
to General Public there seems to be
such great interest in the collegiate
world today to justify another bal-
loting on the two leading candidates
—Smith and Hoover. ,

College Humor is sponsoring the
movement throughout America
among 900,000 college men” and
women in an effort to forecast the
result of the November voting, and
The Davidsonian is assisting in the
general movement.

‘The voting will be condita as

tributed in the rooms of the dormi-
tories on Friday night and collected
the next day. Everybody has a
preference, so let's make it known!

it was in April with the votes dis- |'

Although we are all endowed with eyes,
few of us see very well. We see what
we are accustomed to see, and what we
are told to see. To the rest of what is
about us we are largely anesthetic. We
demand simple and apparently universal
stereotypes with which to see the world.
The purpose of this column is merely to
place before the few readers of this col-
umn collegiate and national news with
which most of us are not acquainted. If
we make any conclusions, you are free to
dispute them.

“Intellect,’
sition, “is always dangerous in a woman.”
Which we take to mean, dangerous to a
man.

Last year, this column was headed with
the title Ollapodrida. However, Shelly
has informed us that “naught may endure
but Mutability.” In order that this cdl-
umn might persist among our readers, we
felt that a change in title as well as in
substance was necessary. Chaucer gave
us a suggestion in the Tale of Melibeus
when he wrote, “Ye han cast alle hire
wordes in an hochepot.” Accordingly, we
have changed the title to hotchpot. Our
commonly used word hodgepodge is a cor-
ruption of hotchpotch and this of hotch-
pot.

In North Carolina some politicians are
reported “burying the hatchet for
Smith.” We knew the hathet was being
buried, but thought the place of inter-
ment was the candidate bimself.

Ww

as

The Kellogg-Briand pact, signed in
Paris August 27 by fifteen nations, was
the fifth agreement of the kind signed in
the past six years with the purpose of out-
lawing war.

At Genoa, in May, 1922, thirty nations
adopted a resolution whereby they under-
took not to commit aggressions upon one
another,

At Genoa, in September, 1924, the as-
sembly of the League of Nations adopted
a protocol which bound the members to
substitute arbitration for violence in the
settlement of disputes.

At Locarne, in 1925, France, Belgium
and Germany signed a pact which bound
them never to make war upon one another,
but settle their controversies by arbitra-
tion.

At Havana, in 1927, the Pan-American
congress adopted a resolution to taboo
war as a means of furthering national
policy.

The tragedy of all this is that the very
peacemakers—are now talking of “pre-
paredness” again, and are afraid of mov-
ing one step in the direction of. disarma-
ment lest they should find themselves un-
armed among their enemies. Great Britain
and Ireland spent 77 million pounds on
armaments between 1913 and 1914, and
85 millions between 1926 and 1927. In
spite of these many treaties and pacts be-
tween many nations, there is no sense of
security from war in the mind of the
average man and woman as far as we
know anything about it.

If the country is as dry asthe repub-
licans try to make us believe, and as wet
as the democrats claim, no one is greatly
inconvenienced.

A Cornell graduate has offered. the
University one million dollars. The only
stipulation that he attaches to it is that
the Board of Trustees must abolish social
fraternities from Cornell. The offerer is
a former fraternity. man. The Board has
not yet met, but, it is not likely that the’

money will be accepted, &

Senator Heflin asserts that he is still a
democrat. Thus, he continues to put the
party in bad.

costumes. Also they marveled at Bibi;
Bibi, a French bull terrier, was her pet.
He was dressed, not to his own, but to
his mistress’ fancy. The finest of silk
laces, the softest and warmest of velvet
cloaks were placed upon him.. But inces-
sant pampering, perfumery, and sweet-
meats killed him. Senora de Salva was
heart-broken ; she buried all of her jewels
with Bibi. No longer did she take
pride in her design of costumes; Bibi was
gone. Such inordinate affection for a
pet'is foolish, yet only last year a Boston
bull sailed with a maid in a firstclass suite
on the Leviathian.
Paris for his spring clothes.

rd

This column does not attempt to serve
as the place for book reviews. Yet, read-
ers of this would do well to read “Show
Girl,” by J. P. McEvoy. It is something
new in the realm of the American novel,
emphasizing. the. wise-crack, Consider;

’ says, Will Durant in Tran- |

He was going to|

“I got home and) believe me, those snow-covered grapenut fields

looked good to a homesick little girl!”
—V, of S. Calif. Wampus.

THE MUDWALKS OF DAVIDSON

Davidson's largest and most progressive afternoon newspaper presents for the
amusement of. its seven hundred and fifty-three subscribers and three readers (the
editor, the typist, and the proofreader) an added attraction effect in this new
column. The primary purpose of this column is, of course, to fill up space. A
secondary purpose is to promote peace—by allowing the editor and other prominent
members of the student body less space to use in the exchange of words on press-
ing campus questions. Remember the war of last May? On the Senior Gift
affair? . How the editor, fortified behind a barracade of plural “I's,” got in the
last wotd, then refused to put out another issue of “The Davidsonian?” And that
whole battle of typewriters was caused by an innocent reporter who violated the
sacred code of all newspaper men and gleaned and wrote up the truth. “The truth
must be carefully avoided at all times.”

WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
What has become of the corporation that sold us radiator rent tickets our
freshman year ?
How are they going to run the World Series and the Chemistry lab without
John Q.?
‘Who sent a prominent member of the Davidson College faculty a bicycle on
fifteen-day trial ?
Who has the government job of reading humorous magazines to determine
whether or not they are fit matter to go through the mails?
Which will be the most popular after next November :
or “How Dry I Am?”

“Sidewalks of New
York”

FAMOUS EPITAPHS
She led a blameless life below,
Death held for her no terror;
And now she’s gone where lilies blow—
No runs, no hits, no errors.
—The New Yorker.

OUR OWN DEFINITIONS
An American—One who spends money he doesn’t make, to purchase things he
doesn’t want, to impress people he doesn’t like.
A Freshman—One who carries laundry, wears a red and black cap, looks
dazed, etc., etc. In general, one who looks and acts as we did not so many eons

previous. i
Dear Fresh, ‘ ‘
Don’t be bashful. Order Nut Sund and Chocolate shakes. You won't
be rushed all your life.
Annie Laurie.
AGREED

T never thought that your most precious arms
Would fold and hold me to you. with delight ;
I never dreamed for me there were such charms,
I never dreamed there were—and I was right!
—California Pelican.

We have no doubt in the world but what Mr. Arthur Brisbane is quite an au-
thority on stock market exchanges. Every morning we diligently read his com-
ments—and his advice on stocks. They’re good, or, at least they ‘sound good to us
and to some thousands of other newspaper readers, That’s why Arthur always
knows where the next nickel is coming from. But—we wager that fifty per cent of
his readers don't know a stock market from a meat market—and that the other fifty
per cent, together with about forty-nine per cent of the above menioned, wouldn't
have money to buy standing room on Wall Street. “Advice is cheap.” Oh, yes,
and it must be’ wonderful to be paid a big columnist’s salary to distribute advice.
There ain't no ‘justice!

To meet one of the most important of all student problems, we would like to
present for approval the following device, which is certain to be popular in the col-
legiate world next fall: You've seen a man sandwiched between two covers of
boards carrying advertisements to the effect of “Eat at the Pig and Whistle, etc.,”
hayen’t you? This is just the device we use for the relief of the collegiate world.
Immediately upon arriving at the campus after summer vacation, the returning
student dons his sandwich by sticking his head thru the hole cut for his head. That's
simple. The board in front is lettered after this manner:

If it isn’t my old friend, how are you, old man?

Boy, I hag a. big summer, How-about you?

No, I'm eating at the hotel, sorry!

Yeah, up for re-exams. Say, I met a girl this summer that you know.
Let's see—I've forgotten her name—blond, rather medium height—yeah, that’s it.
No, yes, no, yes, no, think not! Well, gotta get things straight. Mighty elad to
have seen you. Be good. ;

This simplifies greetings to a mere matter of shaking hands twice.

On the back of this labor-saving invention, are these words, which makes life
even more pleasant by saving the student the unpleasantness of thinking: “What
was‘the fellow’s name? Seems like I should) know him.”

FAMOUS QUOTATIONS

“Big fleas have little fleas,
To light on them and bite ’em.:

Little fleas have lesser fleas,
clnd so on, ad infinitum.”

Those who have trouble with keeping
the correct time might remember that the
average watch has 175 different pieces
which required upward of 2,400 separate
operations in its manufacture. The bal-
ance has about 18,000 beats per hour and
157,680,000 vibrations in one year. Esti-
mating the length of one vibration, a
watch travels approximately 3,558 miles

in one year. Strange? Yes, but the old
clock of St. Quentine in the Mayence

“Sir, how can I ever repay
you for your kindness to me?”

struck the hours regularly for 500 years. é
How peculiar that when one in a crowd sen a mee ee! check,
looks at his watch, everyone wishes to mer —Awnapolis Leg.

verify his statement by Jooking at his o own
timepiece, -

Y
