SUMAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, ‘DAVIDSON, N. Cc, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

No. 17

DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON,

PROMINENT

F RATERNITY

MAN, IS RECENT GUEST

Sneaks to Faculty ‘Commi ittee on
Fraternities During Short Stay—
Gives Enthus astic Comments
About Davidson

“T have visitea more than 240 colleees ani
universities during my lifetime. but I know
of no other college or university which Has |
impressed me so profoundly, or filled me
with such an overwhelming sense of rever-
ence and admiration as has Davidson,” as |
serted Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, of |
Chicago, prom‘nent educator and fraternity
official. during a here Monday, Jan-
uary 23rd.

Dr. Shepardson, an outstanding authority
on college fraternities. was at one time head
of the Department of History at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, which position he re-
signed to become a member of the staff ¢
United States Senator Frank O. ee
during the time the latter was Governor of |
Illinois. Senator Lowden is being men- |
tioned asa possible nomince on the Repub- |
lican ticket for President. In case Lowden |
should be elected President it is believed |
that he would choose Dr. Shepardson as Sec- | |
retary of State. Dr. Shepardson was one of
the founders of the Inter-fraternity Council |
of American and for many years its presi-
dent. He was executive head of the Phi
Beta Kappa national honorary scholastic fra-
ternity for several years and is now presi-
dent of the Beta Theta Pi ‘national social
fraternity. He was editor of the last edition
of “Baird’s Manual,” an authority on fra-
ternity rating and standing.

After a visit to Atlanta, where he spoke
to a gathering of deans and presidents of
Southern colleges and universities, Dr. Shep- |
ardson spoke here to the members of the |

(Continued on page 5) f

visit

|

Davideon Debaters
( omplete Schedule

As the second semester of the college year

i begins, the Davidson debating teams are

making their final preparations for the sched- |

'uled meets with the teams from other col-
| leges.
that has not been previously announced is a
! debate with William and Mary College, to
be held at Mitchell College, February
29th. Davidson will be represented by Frank
Hall and Carl Pritchet on the affirmative
side of the query, That the United

on

“Resolved,

| States should’ cease to protect property in

vested in foreign lands.
The schedule proper, which has been for

merly announced, will open on February &th

with the debate against the University of
Florida, here. Leo K. Pritchett and Bob
Kell will represent Davidson. On the 23rd

same month, Laurence
Murray Christian go to Queens
| Rutgers. These three debates will be held
so close to home that many will be permitted
to hear all three.

Bob Grady and W. K. Pritchett leave on
the 12th of the month for the Northern trip.
During this trip they will debate Hampden
Sidney: there, on the 13th; George Washing
ton University on the 14th, and Pittsburgh |
on the 15th. Henry Powell and Tyree Dil-
lard will represent Davidson on the Southern
trip, which will begin on the 20th. They

of the

will debate Florida in a return debate on the |

| at Char!

21st, Sewanee on the 23rd, and Emory on
the 24th.

The only new addition to the schedule |

Dumas _ and |
to meet |

Davidson Will Sponsor
Annual Track-Meet for
All State High Schools

Cream of H'gh School Track Talent
Comes Here March 24

FRESHMEN WILL ENTER
“Tex” Tilson Pred’ cts Great Mee‘
When Hiczh Athletes Get
Together
Under Til-
json, Davidson will again sponsor a track meet
for all high schools of this state. The meet
twill be held on Saturday, March 24th, In
vitalions will be issued to every high school
jin North Carolina having a track team, and
it is expected that nearly every one will send
a team for the The trophy cup will
be awarded to the school winning the meet.
Charlotte High has walked away with the
honors. rather consistently of late, but the
Queen City boys will have a harder fight this
year according to present indications. There
promising teams
competition will

the direction of Coach “Tex”

meet.

seems to bea number of
| throughout the
probably be very keen.

state, and

Coach Tilson expressed the belief that a
number of schools which hitherto have
participated in the Davidson meet will ente:
} this year. He was highly pleased with the
manner in which last year’s meet was carried
‘out, but seemed to think that the 1928 field
| day would be better than ever before. Rich-
}ardson Field will be in splendid shape. The

(Continued on page 8)

Glee Club on

In all of the above debates, except the one |

| with William. and Mary, the query will be:
(Continued on page 8)

Davidson Diamond Artists Slated by
Manager to Play Twenty-two Gieteats

Davidson Wildcats. will will play 22 fasthaill
games in the season of 1928, according to an
announcement made by R. S. Link, Jr., man- |
ager of baseball. These. games will be with
teams representative of five states: North
Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia,
and_ Pennsylvania.

The season will open on March 23rd, with
Elon pitted against the Wildcats, and will |
close with a game with N. C. State on May
12th, at Raleigh. The opening game will be
played at Davidson. As has been the cus-
tom for several years, the annual
game with North Carolina University will
be played on some neutral field. The game |
this year will be played at Salisbury, on |
April 9th. Last year Carolina won by a

decisive score when Westmoreland, Caro- |

lina’s pitching ace, downed the Wildcats
without a single hit.

Coach “Monk” announced that a call for
pitchers will be issued on February 15th. |
There are two varsity pitchers left over |
from last year and one catcher to form a}

Easter |

Meditation Should
be Factor in Life
Theme of Vespers

“Meditation as a fundamental factor in a
rich Christian life” was the central theme of
the Y. M. C. A.
Ministerial Band, Sunday. T. E. Hill and
F. D. Miller were the speakers of the even-
‘ing.

This meeting, the last of a series con-
ducted by members of the present student
| body, was unique in plan and was well pre-
; sented. Several selections by the quartet,
P. J. Garrison, F. Pilcher, R. W. Kirkpat-
rick, and C. K. Poole, added much to the
effectiveness of the program.

T. E. Hill took for the subject of his talk
a passage from the 23rd Psalm, “He leadeth
| me beside the still waters,” and stressed the
need of man to be-led by the still waters by

nucleus for the battery, with eight other let- |

ter men of last year around which to build |
the rest of the team.

Following two games on the home field to

_Start the season, the Wildcats will leave on

a five-day trip through North Carolina and
Virginia, leacing on April 2nd. After a
series of games here Davidson will leave on
a four-day trip to end the season at Raleigh
on May 12th with N. C. State.

The complete schedule for 1928 is as fol-
lows:

March 23—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
. March 29—Elon at Davidson.

(Continued on page 5)

The Christian life divorced from service

j and the ideal of service is not the true Chris-

tian life; but, nevertheless, service is the
product of something deeper. The Master
in stressing the importance of fruits did not
overlook the fact that there must be a tree
nourishing and supporting all fruit produced.
We are the branches that bear the fruit, but
we must not forget the Tree of Life.

Many men are.so busy trying to solve the
problems of life confronting them that they
have quite forgotten what goal they are
striving for. Others troubled by doubts as

(Continued on page 5)

vespers conducted by the !

Will Appear at the Carolina Three
Consecutive Days—Trip to
Atlanta Also Planned

| In an endeavor to vary the type of vaude-

ville programs being presented before the
Charlotte public, thereby preserving and
stimulating the interest in the entertainment
being offered, the Carolina, one of Charlotte’s
| foremost theatres, has been making arrange-
‘ments with Professor Cullum and John Fos-
ter, the head of the Glee Club, to have the
, Davidson Glee Club fill a three days’ en-
| gagement with them. Though the final date
has yet to be agreed upon, it is understood
that the engagement will be for the first three
days of the week and that the club will use
the whole time allotted for vaudeville for the
rendition of several of their more popular
| selections, The program is to consist of a
, boiling down of the regular two hours’ pro-
gram to one sufficiently short to fit the half
hour, more or less, that is used for vaude-
ville presentation.

Agnes Scott College, in Atlanta, is also to
be the host of the club some time in the
month of March, probably toward the last
of the month. The combined Glee Club and
the two orchestras are engaged to go on this
trip. Several stop-offs on the way to At-
lanta are now being arranged.

Charlotte will again be the scene of the

(Continued on page 8)

ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS

Due to the fact that the last issue
of the Davidsonian came out during
the examination period we were un-
able to get it to our out of town
subscribers on time. However, we
hope this will not occur again and
the rest of the year you will re-
ceive your copies promptly.

not |

For Sharpshooters |

The Davidson ( ee rifle team, under the
leadership of Julian Lake, the captain. wil
enter into an extensive program in the com
ing Twenty-three? matches will he
fired, two of which will be off the campus,
The schools that are scheduled to match the
Wildeat sharpshooters are located at various
points from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast.

spring.

At the present time the team is in the
process of firing the Fourth Corps) Area
match. The trophy for this match is to

come from the Fourth Corps Area's head

quarters, in Atlanta, Out of the scores fired |
by the 15 men competing in this contest, the
110 highest will to Atlanta. The

match will last through the month of Feb- |

be sent

jruary, March 2nd being the last day on
| which the scores may be turned in. ‘The men
| who are firing in the match are: J. 5. Gud

S. W. Vance, W. M.
W. G. McGavock, R.

Taylor,
Lennon,

ger, Clarence
Long, E.°D.

D. Russell, J.C. Bradley, S. Y. Brown, W.
B. Yancey, E. G. Epes, P. J. Garrison, J.
Lake, C. P. Greyer, and A. G. Randolph,

The team is expecting to fire a mateh in
Gastonia sometime during the spring. Also,
it is the plan of the captain to have the team

(Continued on page 6)

Program
otte [Theatre

Candidates Appear for
Spring Footbalt Work

Nationwide Program |

i the

} noon before they re

Fifty Men Called Out by Coaches
to Whip Into Mid-Year Training

On the first afternoon of spring football
practice about 50 candidates made their ap-
pearance on the gridiron, The number was
smaller than usual this year due to the: fact
that it was limited by the coaches. By the
stiff and snappy workout that Coaches Monk
Younger and Tex Tilson gave their prote-
ges it could easily be seen that the spring
football season was to be a time of earnest
work and hard drill which will be necessary
to develop a winning eleven for the 102?
football season. y

The coaches started the candidates running
down on punts and oatching and throwing.
passes. Then the men were instructed in
double teaming and blocking. After a con-
siderable workout in these forms of dr'tl,
four teams were picked and two plavs were
given out to the different teams to ne run. ;
The air was keen and the workouts ‘were
snappy. The men seemed to get into thi
| spirit of the drills as the quarterbacks hark-
ed out the signals. After a brief signal drill
Coach Younger gave the squad a good work-
out in exercises. The whole practice
' fast and snappy and the men seemed to enter
into it in good spirit.

The upper classmen who were called out
are: Baker, Tut McConnell, Carson, Hunt,
Leftwich, Harper, Peterson, Smith, Decamp,
Archie, Christian, Riggs McConnell, War-
ren, Kerr, Regen, McColgan, DeArmon, Wil-
son, Hammett, Mills, Middleton, Hampton,
Flinn, Black, Kell, Parrish, Buster Mat-
thews, Brohard, Kugler, and Matthews.

The Freshmen are: Covington, H. S.,
Page, Marrow, Bird, Foyl, Mason, Proctor,

(Continued on page 2)

Was

/Mmanager of gymnasium picture shows,

BLYTHE AND ISENHOUR
AWARDED CONTRACT
CHAMBERS NORTH WING

Charlotte Contr-ctors Chosen by
Building Committee from Four-
teen Contract'ne Firms Sum-
mitting Three Types of

Bids
The builcine committee af Davi'tsen Col
lege today awarded a contract to Blythe and
Isenhour, Charlotte firm, for the erection of

northern wing of Chambers building
This concern was the lowest bidder on that
their bid being $153,725.

almost seven thousand less than

unit of the building,
which was

{the nearest competitor. The Charlotte con-
tractors erected the present south wing,
Fourteen contracting firms submitted three
ltypes of bids on the central seetion, on the
hhnorthern, wing, and oon the two combined.
The committee appointed by the board of
trustees. deliberated until late in the after

ached a decision to let a
northern unit.

of the
They. included
Martin, president of the college

the
members

cotract for

All

were

committee
Dre We Js
ped ay Jack-

building
present

by

on. trersurer; Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr

J. M. MeConnetl, of the faculty, and S. A.
Robinson, of Gastonia, secretary of the

board of trustees. R.A, Dunn, of Char- ~
fotte. chairman of the finance committee of

the trustees, was also present at the meeting,
as well as Henry C. Hibbs, of Nashville,
Tenn., architect.

When the wing for which the contract

was let is completed it will give Davidson
College two units of the proposed $600,000
administrative and classroom structure to re-
place the Chambers building destroyed by |
fire in’ 1921, The southern wing was com-
pleted and occupied in the fall of 1925.

Pictures Sponsored
By “Y” Discontinued

Y, Me. CsA;
ithere
will be no more movies under the supervision
of the “Y,” due to such scant favor with
which previous pictures have met.

This removal of Saturday night pleasures
of old recalls memories of happy times at
the conclusion of busy weeks in years gone
by, when, taking chairs from their rooms,
students “rushed the gate” at the gym in or-
der to get first-class seats and thereby gain
a vantage point from which to view the
“Fire” which might be present.

Then they recall how they tried to out-roar
the famous silent lion and alt such nonsense,
followed by cries to “Focus” and “Frame It”
as the machine tried its best to go on the
blink.

Efforts were made to continue these Sat-
urday night presentations, but financial back-
ing was not given by the students, who have
usually spent their weekly twenty-five cents
for a show before that time.

Prior to 1926 this was the only amusement
in the town and was the leading source of
expense money for the local “Y” in its vari-
ous activities.

Just what will be done with the machine
and other equipment has not been announced
by the management.

According to Jeff Garrison,

The Y is planning to get some new
games and other forms of recreation just
another evidence of the effort the Y is
making to best serve and help Davidson
men. It has been suggested that another
tournament be started, and plans are be-
ing made‘to that effect. If you wan: to
sign up for this contest, be sure to drop
by and tell the Secretary or some of the
Cabinet.
