THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of Wildcat
Events

By Raymond Lake

Within the next few days spring foot-
ball will be over once again and practice
on the old gridiron will be suspended till
next fall, After looking at the candidates
fight each other in the game last Satur- |
day between the Reds and the Blacks, |
things do not lgok so gloomy as they | That “King of Sports,” baseball, is tak-
might at first appear. Goodykoontz|ing a grip on the Wildcat’s lair that bids
showed his speed and the other members | fair to bring about a season of rare ex-
of the Red team showed their ability to | cellence for Mr. Monk Younger and his
run interference when “Goody” ran for a) bloodthirsty Cats. The aspirants for the
«touchdown on the first play of the game.|nine have been working out regularly
Several other members of the two teams | for one week now under the tutorship of
showed up well and both teams “fought | “Monk” Mattox, who is conducting prac-
to the finish.” |tice in the absence of Younger. The lat-

2 |ter is busy at the present with spring
| football, but will take active charge in a

Baseball practice has been going on in| week or two,
full swing during the past weak under) phe Wildcat schedule for this season is
the direction of Coach Monk Mattox: | Goa of ihentosk ambitiole ever andere
The pitchers.and others have been work- | taken by a Davidson team. It includes
ing out every day and all seem to be in |the best teams of the Carolinas and Vir-
unusually good shape for this early in the | ginia, as well as contests with the Univer-
season. Although it is too early to pick | city of Pennsylvania and other outside
a team yet, still several members of the teams. Oak Ridge Military Institute
squad have been showing up well and/ comes here for the first. game, on
seem sure of a berth on the team. Little- March 22.
john has shown much improvement over |
last year, both in fielding and hitting) As usual Davidson is tacking in hurlers |
ability, and will probably hold down the | of a high calibre, but it is believed that
short stop position. Johnny Kugler has) Meadows, Cathey, and Maulden from last
been working into shape for the last few| year’s varsity, and Kugler, McInnis, and
days, and will probably be shifted to| Henderson from the freshman team of

Baseball Squad Appears
Good After First Week

Tennis Team Plans

e
for Southern Trip
gues
| . This year the tennis team is planning an
j}extended trip into South Carolina and
| Georgia to cover a period of approximate-
| ly two weeks. As soon as the new courts

Wildcat Grapplers Elect

Garrison the Only Loss to 1929
Squad

Tom E. Hill, of Richmond, Va., was

after the student body meeting last Mon-
day morning. Captain Garrison con-
ducted the election for his successor.

W. H. Flythe, bantam-weight wrestler
and consistent winner, was nominated al-
so but on spreading the ballot, Hill was
declared winner.

Hill has been a mainstay on the squad
for two years, gaining his place in the
175-pound class early in his sophomore
year. He also wrestled in the unlimited
class during that season and made a very
creditable showing against heavier and
more experienced opponents.

This year, he has held down the heavy-
weight division and has won victories in

call but two matches, the most important

ones being over Captain Seigleman of
Washington and Lee, and Day of North
Carolina State.

Only one man is Jost to the grapplers

second later in the season. Dulin is hold-| last season will furnish a hurling staff that
ing down his usual place at third, and will be able to hold up well enough if the
there is no question about who will play | team hits consistently. Maulden is the |
this position. Crawford and Arrowood only southpaw in the bunch. McInnis»
are working for the first sack position, | ave great promise as a freshman twirler, '
and this place will be played by one of | and is expected to bear a good part of the

these two. |
|

There are several candidates out for |
the hurler’s position, and although noth- |
ing very exceptional has shown up, sev-
eral of these men will be hard to knock |
out of the box. Meadows, Henderson, |
McInnis, Kugler, Cathey, Maulden, and
Hart have been working out for this
position, The other part of the battery
also is being sought for by seyeral play-
ers. Grey, McGeachy, McAulay, Shaw,

‘and Gladstone have stated their intention

of playing this position and each of them
are working earnestly to get the job per-
manently. As has been stated above,
nothing exceptional has yet developed in
the way of battery material, but candi-
dates for the positions are plentiful, com-
petition is sharp,-and some good bavets
will be developed before the

ends,

season

During the past weck several of those
who started working out with the track
squad at the first of the season have
dropped out, and the squad has been au-
tomatically cut down a bit. Coach Tex
is still working with Coach Monk on the
gridiron prospects for next year, but
track practice has been carried on reg-
ularly by Capt. John Currie and his co-
horts. Coach Tex will be with the squad
within the next week or so and things
will begin to liven up a bit.

The freshman candidates have not be-
gun their regular practice yet, but -will
probably begin work when spring foot-
ball practice ends and Coach Monk Mat-
tox will be free to work with them. The
candidates have been called out, but have
only been going through light workouts.
There are always about 50 per cent of the
ones who think they can play baseball at
the beginning of their college career who
find that they are not so good when it
comes time to do something more than
merely catch a ball, and this year is no
exception to the rule. About twice too
many have turned out and the squad will
have to be cut several times before it
will be down to a workable size. About
‘four men have already been cut from.the
varsity. squad, reducing the number of
candidates from about 29 to about 24,

It won't beso long now till time for the
first game with the Oak Ridge team, and
this team always is a good one. There
are those who are already “itching” to

_ see a game again and the loyal fans of the

t won’t have much longer to wait for

th ir first thriller.

burden: this year. English McGeachy,
Bennie MacAule and Dick Grey are work-
ing out behind. the plate, with “Geachy”
probably getting the call on the basis of
his experience last year.

In the infield Crawford, Arrowood,
Kugler, Harrison, Littlejohn, Cox, and
Captain Dulin are competing for positions,
Dulin, Littlejohn, Harrison and Crawford
seem to be the best bet at present. Kug-
ler is a flashy fielder and good hitter, and
may be expected to break into the in-
field at any’ time.

Two of the outfield positions are sure
to fall to Ratchford and Johnson, both
regulars from last season, but the other
is in some doubt with “Whiz” Miller prob-
ably leading the field for it. Everything
considered, the Wildcats should have the
best team in several years. If the hurlers
come through, and the infield can’ conquer
its bad habits of fielding lapses, then the
Cats ought to ride.

Freshman Matmen
Are Given Numerals

Seven Freshmen were awarded monograms
in wrestling at a recent meeting of the Ath-
letic Council. These men were: C. B: Mc-
Keithan, J. R. Estridge, T. L. Umphlett,
Hub Covington, J. F. Preston, . French
Cowan, and W. P. Boyle. These men filled
up the seven divisions on the fresh wrestling
team during the past season.

The schedule for the frosh was not ex-
tensive, only three matches being held dur-
ing the entire season. The fresh won all
of these matches, however.. Two were held
with Barium Springs and one with R. J.
Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem.
The Reynolds team has an excellent record
in state high school circles, having defeated
thestrong team from Greensboro High
twice. The Barium Springs team was also
a formidable aggregation, giving the first
year men a good fight before they were
defeated.

Estridge was the outstanding man for the
yearlings, winning all of his matches. The
high light: of the year was when Estridge
threw his opponent in 15 seconds in one
match. Preston proved to be a valuable
man also, being undefeated throughout the
season.

The fresh matmen will prove a valuable
addition to the varsity squad next year, and
will help to fill in the holes left vacant by
Captain Garrison and Pritchett. No an-
nouncement has been made concerning the
schedule for the fresh wrestling team next
year,

this year but that one is the undefeated
Captain Garrison and will be a heavy loss
to the team, With the material from this
year’s team and some promising fresh-
men, the season under Captain-elect Hill
promises to be a successful one:

Freedom of Speech
Asked by Editor of
“The New Student”

Boston, Mass. (By New Student Service)
—That absolute freedom must be granted
the college press if it is to become a force-
ful and responsible factor in student opin-
ion was the. contention of Norman Studer,
editor of “The New. Student,” in a speech
before the twelfth annual meeting of the
National Association of Deans of Women
at Boston. Mr. Studer would have college
authorities. and student ‘governing officials
keep their hands off the college press. His
speech was delivered before a meeting of
over 300 deans of women from all parts of
the country,

College editors here and there have been
demanding more freedom to criticise the col-
lege and their teachers, according to the
editor of “The New Student.” This new
spirit of criticism, which has only appeared
in college. journalism since the war, is con-
tinually bringing on conflicts between edi-
tors and college authorities. “During the
past five months, for instance, there’ have
been five major cases of editors dismissed
for outspoken editorials.”

“Here we have an attitude that is all too
uncommon that in my estimation is the only
attitude for the enlightened executive. Any
other course will be disastrous to the growth
of a sense of responsibility and a spirit of
true leadership that a free press ensures.
One college president recently made what
would seem to be a very innocent qualifica-
tion to the right of free expression but which
is actually a dangerous weapon for a col-
lege-president to wield. He said that he
reserved the right to censor student expres-
sion that went beyond good taste. Another
president told a’conference of school editors
recently that he was heartily in favor of
full liberty for college editors, with restric-
tions only when ‘the publications°assume so
radical a stand that the good name of the
school is actually at stake. These two defi-
nitions of freedom are merely a license for
any sort of censorship that those in power
care to impose.. It leaves a gap as wide as
a barn door for the censor. This is not a
new attitude of liberalism but merely ant
other way of phrasing the old attitude. Un-
til a college president says that he will toler-
ate poor taste in his college editors for the
sake of developing their responsibility, I
cannot take his liberalism very seriously.
That is the only sort of a ‘point of view that
should exist in a really enlightened college:
There are liberal laws, and laws against
obscene lierature that ought to suffice for
the college community. For the canons of

taste are too relative to apply in these mat-
ters,” ;

Captain for Next Year

elected captain of the wrestling team for |
1928-29 at a meeting of the squad held

lare ready, the candidates for the team
will obtain the necessary practice, and
immediately a tournament will be played

Reds Defeat Blacks in :
e ° ‘ ‘ Py ;
Spring Football Contest °c toe vert ae io tne trip

| \have not yet been made but they are be-
According to Coach Monk Younger the ing rapidly completed and the team will
candidates for spring football are now be- | probably leave a few days after the East-
ing drilled in the fundamentals of the} er holidays. Negotiations for matches
| game, namely in blocking, tackling, run-| are being made with Wofford, Clemson,
ning interference, punting and passing. | 'urman, University of South Carolina,
A game was played last Saturday on the | Citadel, University of Georgia, Georgia
varsity field between the Reds and the, Tech, and possibly one or more schools
Blacks. A good brand of football was of-| for matches. This will provide an ex-
fered by the two teams but the Blacks | tensive and. a strong schedule and the
came out with a one touchdown margin.! preparations for this trip will soon be com-
There are about 35 men out for the! pleted. The trip will last a week or ten
spring training and the prospects for next | days.
year look bright. Goodykoontz looked Shortly after the return from this trip,
good in his run down the length of the} the team will enter the N. C. State inter-
field for a touchdown. Sam Black and | collegiate match and play for the state
Jim Hammett looked like a couple of| championship. According to previous
well seasoned players and should be} plans, the meet was to have been held at
ready to work hard in the fall. “Sloppy”| Duke on the 10th, 20th, and 21st of
David made a few nice runs but failed to} March. However, a message from Duke
get loose for a winning touchdown. has been received, stating that they are
Althought the game was hard fought! unable to accommodate the meet this
and fairly well played on both sides there | year and asked for a change in the school
was an apparent lack of the old Davidson|at which the meet will be held. Dick
fight. This with practice in the fall will] Carr, the president of the Intercollegiate
be evident. At times a strong drive was | Association, and Caesar Cone, of the Uni-
shown by members of the opposing teams'| yersity of North Carolina, the secretary,
and the spirit would burst forth in case|are completing plans at the present time,
either team drew too near the goal. | which will transfer the place of the meet
The present plans are to have a reg-|to Carolina. The same dates will be kept
ular football game between the Reds and | unless a further change is necessary. The
Blacks every Saturday afternoon until! schools included in the “Big Five” and
the close of the training period. The} Elon and Guilford, with a possibility of
teams are purposely very evenly matched | one more téam are expected to be repre-
and much interest is shown as to the win-

ner. The coaches desire to have the prac-
tice continue for about three more weeks.

Fresh Basketball Team
Back After 5-Day Trip

Squad Gives Keen Competition But
Fails to Gain Lead Over Other
State Teams

The Freshman basketball team made its
annual trip through the state last week.
Leaving by bus Tuesday at noon, the bas-
keteers played their first game with Oak
Ridge, losing by a close score. Rusk was
high scorer for the visitors with 15 points,
while Pierce led for Oak Ridge. Wednesday
night the Wildkittens met the N. C. State
Freshmen at Raleigh, again suffering defeat.
McCall and Goodson showed up especially
well for Davidson, while Boyette led the
scoring for his team. Goodson played a con-
sistently good game throughout the trip.
The next game was played at Wake Forest
Thursday night, and won by the home team.

the Baby Deacons got a safe lead in the third
quarter. Friday night the Wildkittens suf-
fered their worst defeat at the hands of
Duke, the Blue Imps getting a wide lead
from the opening period. Below is given the
‘box scores of the games:

Davidson (25) Position Oak Ridge (33)
MoGall(4) sg2c cae eects Abernathy (4)__
R. F
RR asleh (15) ees cee as Morris (4)
L. F.

Wilsons((2) cco oie ee see Pierce (13)
Center
Goodson (4) __-------------- Wilson (1) |

R. G |
Proctet. st 22.50 gos Faulkner (7)
L. G.
Score by quarters:
6-12-21-25 11-17-27-33
Substitutes—Davidson : Goodykoontz, Mc-
Alister, Marks, Overman. Oak Ridge:

Skinner, Lane, Solomon, Henry (4), Beaver.
Davidson (24) Position N.C. State (37)
McCall (11) Wright (2)

Substitutions—Davidson : Overman, Marks,
McAllister (2), Goodykoontz. N.C. State:
Sykes, Atkinson (4), Vorel, Turner, Fatado,
Tucker,

Davidson (26) Position  W. Forest (40)
McCall (6) Quillin (7)

Scoring the first two periods was close, but |

. R. F
RUSK (4) sero scesccoeseccoces Gammon (8)
L. F.
W318 00 3 ge See ty
Center
‘Goodson (7) ---.----1-.-_. Thompson (2)
R. G.
Proctor asc ec se Elliot (5)
L. G

| sented in the tournament.

| The two letter men who remain for the
| Davidson team are Dick Carr, captain,
land John T. Roddy, manager. All the
/men will play in the preliminary tourna-
| ment. Haverstadt and Johnston made
varsity places in the fall tournament this
year, and DeCamp and Daniels made
lespecially good showings. It is not. defi-
nite at this time who will compose the
|varsity for this year. The members of
| the team will be anounced as soon as the
|try-outs have been completed.

| After the state meet one or two matches
are expected to be played here, if the
courts Are completed, and a dual match
with Carolina is being considered. None
of these are completely arranged at this
time.

| Rusk (4) Mullin (14)

LF;
Wilson: (5): ossescsuaeusceoce Taylor (10)
”~ Center
Goods0n.<(6). -ssscsSeeeee ens a5 Lewis (4)
R. G
Proctor: (3) .s22. cesses Brookshire
L. G.
Score by quarters:
| 10-13-19-26 12-18-32-40

Substitutions—Davidson: Overman (2),
McAllister. Wake\Forest: Ferbee, Byerley.
Covington, Edwards, Gregson (5).

Davidson (24) Position Duke (52)
McCall (9) asses Crouch (2)
R. F.

Rsk 13) Be see ee Rogers (18)
L. F.

Wilson iesseeie ce ees Crowson (3)
Center
Goodson (4) ~----------- Schlosbach (16)
R. G.

Proctor si. o eit ee ee Haines (4)
L. G.

| Score by quarters:
| 4-10-18-24 19-32-41-52

| Substitutions—Davidson: Overman (2),
| McAllister. Duke: Staton (9), Allford,
| Moore, Watson, Widenhouse, Atkins.

“No, your husband can’t play in_ this
production with you.”

“But I love my husband and cannot be
separated from him.”

“You may love him now; but what if

Boyette (16) | you start divorce proceedings before we

finish the film?” — Louisville Courier-
Journal.

Mother—“George you know that un-
breakable toy you gave Dick for his
birthday?””

Father—"Yes; is it broken?”

“No; but he’s broken about everything
else i nthe place with it.”—Answers, Lon-
don.

