4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

——<—<——

-The~ Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

BY CLASS OF '15
Pb tooo Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Davidson as Mail Matter of
id Class

Entered at the Post Office of
sha al the Secon

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: .
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegia ear
ae

aly Articles fey, Tatlloation must in the pests of Sead
F . m. Monday. °
ealve Tein aa, enkdown aduies will ser be published.

AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. -.-.------.---------- Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ..-<..-..-.------.------ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
EDITORIAL STAFF

Po De MILLER. aoc cwlcoweiee ea ace catce Managing Editor
CCM ARRAT Seer. Gi cuscpinsinccts ---Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT ----Managing Editor
Zz. V. LONG atueL eos sawaso ciseusuasolan—saaceens Sports Editor
V. A. MILTO? ews Editor
G. R. LAKE - .---Associate Editor
. B. MORIARTY ./...-.----.--. ----Associate Editor
Wy. Ki PRULGH MES: Sci uloscbecnsinucknasenes. Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY......-..-.-Assistant Business Manager
$8. J. ALLISON....-. ----Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL. ----Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON.......-.-.--.------.--Subscription Manager
B. X, DICKSON.......-..---------------Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. --------Solicitor
W. _B. McGUIR Solicitor
By He MCCAT iigu cicadas sdecbcacnsacusnscacusgusnncecua Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;

NO LOIN Gb acnkenadsbanesbeauseudwans onduawneuxcacess President
ke W. ice- President
FE. S. EE : Secretary-Treasurer

P. R. ALDERMAN } V. MIDDLETON

D. P. ANDERSON . T. NUNAN

S. R. COKER eee PRESTON

C. H. DUBOSE . C, RAGIN

A, FREW D, RUS s

P. B. Y Cc, A. SISSON

fi R. G AM D, T. STOKES

. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG. S. S. WILEY
. P, McBRYDE
DBEAND RUS Recent aoa cpuscscnpsabebase N. C. C. P. Reporter
SAM? Wile Wi a ddescccssnasubebicschcunuas N..C. C. P. Reporter
A POLICY PERHAPS

In assuming the guidance of a newspaper
it seems to be the custom to make some sort

of statement as to the policy of the new |

staff. Often times these promises as to the
course to be pursued throughout the year
are dodged by more or less general state-
ments without any suggestion remaining in
the mind of the reader as to what shall be at-
tempted. Thismay be true in this instance.

There are many things which the incom-
ing staff would like to see at Davidson—
some new institutions established and some
of the old abolished—but due to certain ex-
isting conditions many of these cannot and
should not be urged. For example, many
students voice the need of a swimming pool
and it is suggested that a united effort be
exerted in behalf of the establishment of
one, but an investigation into local needs and
the ability to meet these needs shows the
utter impracticability of such a movement
at the present time.

It has been the policy ever since the
founding of this newspaper to support the
Administration in every way. The new
staff hereby pledges itself to look toward
the best interests of the College as indicated
by those in charge and to lend whatever as-
sistance possible.

It shall be the purpose of The Davidsonian
to support every movement which is for the
best interests of the student body; to assist
the Y. M. C. A. in activities sponsored by
that organization; to stand for the advance-
ment of athletics to a higher degree of effi-
ciency; and to strive continually “For a
Better Davidson.”

Attention has been directed many times to
the fact that there is no news in the paper,
but such must necessarily be true when an-
nouncements are made each morning at
chapel and when stories are sent out daily
by the Press Bureau to appear in papers
which antedate the appearance of The Da-

i ian by two or three days. Realizing
_ that this paper is not truly a “newspaper,”
the staff shall endeavor to provide, in addi-
tion to the “news,” an interesting feature
page in each issue on which will appear a
“Peanut Parcher” with localized jokes,
humorous writings of varying natures,
stories of historical interest in relation to
the College as well as cartoons as often as
may be deemed advisable.
from. student welise
solicited should be
managing editors.)
_ One request that is made of the readers is
that suggestions-be made to the editorial
staff as to their likes and dislikes so that an
idea as to what is receiving favorable’ at-
tion, if any, may be ascertained.
: hanges in the make-up of the pa-
ake effect with the beginning of the
! t is thought to
ns at

s which are urgently
ubmitted to one of the

{ybody. desires: moss: geed-lecturos and cmc?”
tainments here, to speak of something defi-
nite. It believes further that there are too
many “sham” organizations on the campus ;
that there is over-organization with special
reference to honorary fraternities. It shall
be the purpose of the staff to investigate and
urge action in regard to these things.

Other matters may be presented as need-
ing investigation in the future and as they
are deemed worthy they will be incorporated
into the policy of The Davidisolan.

—
SMITH-HOOVER VOTES

Student expressions have come in for a

good bit of criticism recently when certain
ones have caused the creation of clubs boost-
ing a favorite presidential candidate or
when inter-collegiate debates have been held
in order that the merits of one man may be
emphasized and the inefficiency of the other
exposed. Wake Forest and Georgia have
held the national spotlight by their extreme
expressions of their preferences.
€forttinately enough The Davidsonian’s
straw vote did not create excitement of such
nature. Heated discussions were in order at
practically all “bull sessions” but no organi-
zation was contemplated. Students were
glad enough to have something definite to
talk about during this time.

Hoover backers at Davidson are happy be-
cause the say-so of local students does not
elect a president, while in other colleges that
went for Hoover, supporters of the New
York governor feel pretty much the same
way. Only thirty per cent of the collegiate
votes of this country can be repeated in the
general election so it really doesn’t mean so
much, ,

The Davidsonian is glad because a larger
percentage of the student body and faculty
expressed their choice in the straw balloting
than at other institutions and extends thanks
for this co-operation.

(Contributions °

ONE MORE WEEK

It will be just one more week until this
campus will be agog over the big social
event of the year—Junior Speaking. Com-

| mittees appointed by the the Junior presi-
| dent have devised a highly attractive pro-
gram for the week-end but this is not the
exceptional part. It is not so much that
these men deserve credit for a nexcellent
program but they deserve commendation for
having this social feature when the entire
student body is present. Heretofore, the
affair has been held during the Easter holi-
days when four-fifths of the men were off
the campus but it was decided to make the
greatly-needed change so that all might
benefit and take part in the general. merri-
ment. As always before, scores of “flowers
of southern womanhood” will be in attend-
ance to brighten the festive season. All stu-
dents and townspeople are cordially invited
by the committee to take an active part in
the program and to support the program as
given on page one of this issue.

Open Forum

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

During a year of generous criticism of organi-
zations and institutions long extant on the cam-
pus, it is but natural that the issue should arise as
to whether honorary fraternities sufficiently fulfill
the purpose of their founding to warrant their
maintenance. The question arises: Is it worth-
while to pay the average ten dollars to enter and
“become a member” of an “organization” which
in many cases, meets seldom if at all, and is of no
apparent worth either to its members or to the
rest of the student body. Differently guised—Are
you willing to pay from five to fifteen dollars to
get your head above the crowd in this manner, or
at least to deceive yourself into thinking you
have. :

One special day not long past was agreed upon
by common consent as the day when all the hon-
orary fraternities would extend certain ones bids
to become members. At this time three of the
present twelve honorary frats failed to send out a
single bid. If a fourth of the “existing such fra-
ternities oblivious to or at least unmindful of their
sole means of propagation, not to mention their
main cause for existence—their treasuries—then it
would seem that honorary ffaternities are not in-
deed, to be long with us on the campus.

We also contend that there are too many honor-
ary fraternities on the hill at the present time. If
a man belongs to more than one of them—and the
honorary frat man usually does—he is so beset
with. meetings and more meetings which, if they
do not eternally conflict, will succeed in so en-

an excuse as answer to the wish that many boys
will remember having entered college with the
desire to learn something. It is true of course,
that if things be allowed to take their apparent
course, and no literary society treatment be ap-
plied, this difficulty will in time be done away
with, :

Some of the honorary fraternities on this campus
are without a doubt, of service, and. a great deal:at
that, to the student body. But others—many oth-

gaging his time, that he will find himself with only |

0 am oe ete

Collegiate Comment

+

Minor Chords

Among the many different and varying discus-
sions of college politics at this time the attack
which has centered about Alabama’s Tammany
Hall, popularly known as Theta Nu Epsilon, has
drawn quite a bit of attention. It seems that cer-
tain students there rebelled at the thought of
having such an organization in their midst as they
grew tired of its continued control of college

elections.

Another news article common to collegiate pub-
lications just now is that the annual War Depart-
ment inspection has been completed and that “the
best performance of past years was given by the
cadets.” If every college showed improvement it
means that Davidson’s place at the top of the
Fourth Corps Area is a little doubtful.

From the Centenary Conglomerate it is learned
that an “Unusual Chapel Talk is Delivered.” Hope
is abandoned though when the rest of the copy
shows the issue to be a yellow sheet on pink paper.

In an attempt to imitate the popular confessional
magazines of the day, the Austin College Kangaroo
publishes some “Revelations about’a Co-Ed Dor-
mitory.” In’ beginning the story, the author says
that she has been found guilty by the Girls’ Coun-
cil of being the biggest liar on the campus. She
undertakes to protect her title in the account.

Wake Forest’s “Al Smith Club” and Georgia’s
demonstration in behalf of the New York governor
make the local excitement created by the straw
vote seem mild. Probably the greatest height
which was reached was expressed in a few shouts
between dormitories on the eve of the voting.

All football men who received letters will not be
permitted to participate in basketball, according to
a new ruling which will soon be adopted by the
University of Vermont. This is the second insti-
tution in the country to adopt this ruling, Tulane
University being the first.

As a result of promiscuous kissing at a sorority
initiation, 60 members of the Clionian sorority at
New York State Normal School were placed under
quarantine for scarlet fever. One of the members
was afflicted with the disease and since she had
kissed every person present at the initiation, all
were placed under quarantine.

They are wondering at’ the University of Wis-
consin whether girls get higher marks than the
men students because they linger after class and
flirt with the instructor or just why it is. The
teachers deny this but the fact was recently dis-
closed that one instructor wrote at the end of a
girl’s theme, “I should like to give-you better
grades because you have such an exquisite soul—
so do study.”

Co-education is just being introduced ‘in the
Chinese universities. Women students, however,
are not allowed to mix with their brothers, but are
allotted seats on the opposite side of the room,
heavily chaperoned.

“Crip” courses are soon to be a regular part of
the Columbia University curriculum, according to
Dean Herbert E. Hawkes, who declares that there
are many students who gain more from just sitting
in on an interesting, but easy course than they
would from intensive work in the course.

College students in 408 colleges and universities,
who afe working their way through, earned $55,-
000,00 last year. Of the entire enrollment in these
institutions, thirty-nine per cent are partially or
wholly self-supporting, One-third of the students
in men’s colleges and one-sixth of the students in
women’s colleges are earning all or part of their
expenses.

The Western Association of College Comics re-
cently voted to break their contracts which give
College Humor sole reprint rights, says The New
Student. They state that the publication “is paint-
ing a picture of flaming youth which is not real,
and which gives to the average reader a false idea
of college life. They take all the gin and sex jokes
and play them up as representative college humor,
with no mention of any other type.”

Only 29 of the 159 girls in South Hall at the
University of Missouri would marry Colonel Lind-
bergh, if they had the chance. Eleven of the 29
were ready to marry the airman without hesita-
tion; fifteen wanted to “date him” first, and three
felt that “it wouldn’t be bad at all” to stand beside

_

ers—are from the standpoint of service or aid to
the students or to their members, practically
worthless. Such fraternities meet once, twice, or
—to be generous with them—four times a year.
The business of such meetings consists very largely
in calling on some higher-math “stude” to figure
out how large a dividend they may declare on the
fees from the recent—or future—initiations, which
dividend is to be used for the purpose of a grand
old feed at the “speak-easy.” This terminated, a
few congratulations given, and the cares‘and bus-
iness of the meetings are over far another year.
Get Chas. M. Pratt.

“ ver, however.

INTELLIGENTSIA
There is a clique in every college
Who deem the entire realm of knowledge
Their own, a patented invention
Beyond their fellows’ comprehension ;
And clothe themselves in full accordance,
With lofty airs of self importance.
Their views are strictly modernistic,
And very nearly anarchistic:
They speak of art with learned mien,
Lauding some futuristic scene
Which, to the unenlightened eye,
Seems sadly, hopelessly awry,
With tangled nose and brow and leg
Resembling most a scrambled egg;
But if you venture one contention
They eye you with sad condenscension,
And pityingly murmur, too,

_ Of your Victorian point of view.

If literature’s the conversation

They will expound with animation

How Mencken now is quite the class,

And Browning just a silly ass;

“Why Shakespeare, sir, is quite passe,

You know, he isn’t read today.”

Then (pardon, I’d not dare deride)

They form loud plans for suicide,

To see what lies beyond the tide;

But something seems to override

Their earnest effort to be free,

Unfortunate that death should be

Elusive, and so hard to find

For the resolved, heroic mind!

“Religion is a hopeless bore,

A relic from the days of yore

When girls wore modest clothes for style,

And thought morality worthwhile.

God is an idea quite absurd

A fetish of the common herd.”

They point out Christian dogmatism

To prove the truth of atheism,

And sneering Paul clear out of face

They set up Lewis in his place.

(Lewis, whose favorite tone’s a bray

Makes fitting god for such as they)

Idiots all! Their doings show it;

But they discernment lack to know it,

And cover up their want of sense

By naming it INTELLIGENCE.

Great God, Who us poor herd still rules,

Why did You make that bunch of fools?
F. H.

He—“I’m going to buy myself a harem.”

It—“What do you mean? You can’t buy a
harem, can you?”

He—“Sure. I was a sign at a gas station that
said “Eight Gals for a Dollar.’—U. of S. Calif.
Wampus.

“Have you seen any of the new sirens the police
are using?”

“Yes, one of them accosted me the other day.”—
Stanford Chaporrel.

Because a majority of the fraternities of Cen-
ter College do not want restrictions or rules con-
cerning pledging or rushing, and the others feel
that without such rules a Pan-Hellenic Associa-
tion would be of little value should they refuse to
create such a norganization.

The editor of the Clemson College paper is be-
coming riled over the compulsory church attend-
ance and attacks the authorities with reference to
their attitude toward t. It seems that the list of
expelled editors will be swelled before long.

Emory reports an excellent time had by all at
the various “receptions” held ‘during their Little
Commencement. Now we can understand the
slight typographical change in Byron’s “Childe
Harold.” The Emery edition now reads “On with
the reception! Let joy besunconfined !”

It won’t be long now before the Democrats will
have implicated in the Teapot Dome controversy
every Republican candidate for the presidency.
Senator Reed seems to be going strong. His most
recent suggestion is that friend Cal be thrown out
of the White House.

so famous a man. These straw votes certainly
want to find out about the private opinions of
people. They certainly do.

In keeping with the Antioch plan of extending
student control step by step as it becomes possible,
a student committee to pass on probations and ex-
pulsions seems likely. The plan is for these mem-
bers to investigate each case and join with a fac-
ulty committee to decide on action.

While students at the University of Washington
are conducting an organized drive to abolish com-

-pulsory military drill, a student petition for an R.

O. T. C. unit at Denver Universty is being pre-
sented. There is quite a bit of opposition at Den-
