THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

it
WS

)

NEW YORK ASSOCIATION |
ELECTS W. P. ANDERSON |

TO PRESIDENCY AGAIN

|
Member of Class of ’07 Serves Third
Term as Head of New York As-
sociation—Routt and Oeland
Also Elected

W. P. Anderson, ’07, was re-elected.
president; Emmett G. Routt. ’10, was |
chosen as vice-president, and R. W.
Oeland, '25, was selected secretary-treas- |
surer of the New York Alumni Associa-
tion at a dinner-meeting held at the New
York Advertising Club on Tuesday. night,
March 13th. This was the semi-annual
meeting of that organization. pa

The New York gathering ended a series
of six, meetings in eight days, and the
same measure of interest that had char-
acterized the affairs prior to that time
was manifest that night. Approximately
20 former students of Davidson attended,
and were keenly concerned about their
alma mater.

W. P. Anderson, who has been pres-
ident, for the past two years, presided as
toastmaster, and conducted the most sys-
tematic meeting yet attended ‘by either
of the alumni secretaries. Telegrams
were read from Dr. W. J. Martin, presi-
dent of Davidson, which was optimistic
over the future of the college; and from
Rey. W. E. Phifer, ’96, of Port Jervis, N.
Y., who expressed regret that he was un:
able to attend. A letter was also read
from J. P. Williams, ’16, of Davidson, a
former member of the association.

Ernest Milton was present from David-
son, outliriing the remarkable growth of
Davidson in the past sixteen years, de-
scribing the institution as it is today,
and pointing out the forward steps being
taken by the college. He also disctissed
alumni work since its inception in 1926
and told about the future of the work.
Following his talk the meeting was
thrown open for discussion, and many
questions were asked by the alumni.

The association passed a_ resolution
which contained the opinion that the
alumni office should supervise the mailing
of Davidsonians to alumni on the mail-
ing list, requesting the home office to take
steps to do this if it was possible. Com-
plaint was made that the issues come ir-
regularly, though it was stated that the
alumni were better pleased this year than
before. Individual opinion was expressed
that this department of The Davidsonian
should be enlarged.

Powell and Dillard in Debates
With Several Southern Schools

Davidson’s Southern varsity debating team,
composed of Henry Powell and Tyree Dil-
lard, left during’ the early part of this week
on a trip through the South. The team will
visit three schools on this trip, these three
being the University of Florida, at Gaines-
ville, Fla.; the University of the South, at
Sewanee, Tenn., and Emory University, at
Atlanta, Ga. The, schools will be met in the
above named order.

The query for the debate is, “Resolved,
That the United States should cease to pro-
tect by force of arms capital in foreign lands,
except after formal declartion of war.”
Messrs. Powell and Dillard have the af-
firmative side of the question in each of the
three debates on the trip.

Of these teams which are to be met, Flor-
ida is the only team which has been. met in
a previous encounter this year. The Flor-
ida team was debated, in Shearer Hall several
weeks ago, and defeated by a team composed
of Bob Kell and L. K. Pritchett. The “de-
cision as to the winners was left for the au-
dience to decide, at the request of the Flor-
- ida team. \

Last year, Sewanee was defeated by a

team composed of Dillard and Bill Christian.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has just reached David-
son of the engagement of Edwin A. West,
’24, to Miss Virginia Carter, of Hemp, N.
C., the marriage to be solemnized in the
early fall. Miss Carter is the yéungest
daughter of the late W. G. Carter and
Mrs. Margaret McLeod Carter, of Car-
ters Mill. Mr. West is the son of George
W. West of Fayetteville. Since his grad-
uation from Davidson College in 1924, he;
has been teaching at Hope Mills. Last
fall he transferred to Elise High School
at Hemp, where he is now principal. He
has made many friends in the city in
which he now resides, and will in all prob-
ability return there, following his mar-
riage, to make his home.

Many friends throughout North Caro- |
lina will be interested in the following an-
nouncement, recently appearing in the
Wilmington Morning Star:

“Mrs. Edith Prince Ruckert announces
the marriage of her daughter, Edith Gol-
den, to Mr. Norman Westbrook Shepard,
on Tuesday, February 7, 1928, at the
American Legation, Peking, China.”

Mr. Shepard, son of Mr. and Mrs. Alex-
ander H. Shepard, of Wilmington, was
educated at Davidson College and at the
University of North Carolina, having at-
tended college here as'a member of the
class of ’23. -During his college days at
the University he was prominently iden-
tified with athletic circles of the university.
and following his graduation he served
overseas as a member of the American
expeditionary forces. For several years
he has been in the employ of the Ligget
and Meyers Tobacco Company, with his
headquarters in China. Mrs. Shepard is
the attractive daughter of Mrs. Edith
Ruckert and the late Christian G. Ruck-
ert, prominent real estate man of Brook-
lyn, N. Y. The bride’s family resides at
East Moritz, Long Island. Mr. and Mrs.
Shepard. are returning to the United
States by way of the Panama Canal and}
Cuba, and will be at home in Garden City,
Long Island, after May 15.

For the past five years Emory Universi
has evidently been a jinx to Davidson teams,
since it has been that long since a Davidson
debating team has defeated a team from |
Emory. Each year a different subject has
been debated, and each year, the Davidson
team has been forced to turn sadly home-
ward. This school is to be met in Atlanta
on Friday, March 23rd.

“T was on the stage once.”

“Yeah?”

“Uh-huh, I fell out of the balcony.”—
Reserve Red Cat.

The only difference between a modern co-
ed and and seventeenth century pirate is that
the priate is dead—Westminstrel.

They giggled when I sat down to the
piano, but when I began to play the lessons
I learned from the Surefire Correspondence
School, they laughed right out loud.—Geor-
gia Cracker.

Bored Sophomore—‘“I’ve been around with
girls, and girls, and girls, and girls—”

Freshman—“Where? On a_ merry-go-
round ?”—Arisous Kitybel.

“Where are you from?”

“West Virginia. Down in God’s coun-
try.”

“Why do. you call it that?”

“Nobody else can get through it.”—Okla.
Whirlwind.

Louisiana Association

Twenty-Five Former Students Will

to Meet Thursday Night

Gather for Second Meeting

Announcement has been received at Da-
vidson that the Louisville (Ky.) Alumni
Association will hold their annual meet-
ing at the Kentucky Hotel, Louisville, Ky.,
Thursday night, March 20th, at 6 :30 |
o’clock. Approximately twenty Davidson
College alumni are in that city or vicinity.

An invitation was extended to the local
secretaries to attend this gathering, but
due to the lack of finances it will be im-
possible for either one to be present. In-
formation is being. furnished the presi-
dent of the association about the college
and alumni work, |

Officers of this association are Rev.
Thornton Whaling, D.D., '77, president;
Rev. R. M. Pegram, ’11, vice-president,
and R. G. White, ’25, secretary-treasurer.
An election of officers will occur at the
meeting on the twenty-ninth.

Davidson alumni who are attending the
University of Pennsylvania Medical
School are R. M. Avery, ’26; J. P. Hen-
drix, ’25; A. M. McBryde, '24; W. Z.
Bradford, '24; L. P. Cox, ’25. Those at-
tending Jefferson Medical School, also in
Philadelphia, are S. S. McNair, ’25; J. M.
Adams, ’23; A. M. Sample, Jr, '24; J. C.
Leonard, Jr., ’24, and R. H. Morris, '24.

As a result of the recent alumni trip
through the east 30 changes in address
have been made and more corrections
are yet to come into the local office.
Fifteen additions have been mad to the
alumni list.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, has
been chosen as one of the principal |
speakers to appear before the South Car-|
olina Medical Association which meets}
at Columbia, S. C., on April, 18th. He is!
one of four outstanding men in the medi-

cal profession who will appear before that William Arnette, Jr.
j body.

G. F. Laird, ’26, now coach at Catawba
College at Salisbury, will not be with
that institution after this spring, News-
paper reports from Salisbury state that
he “is planning on going to college to seek
his master of arts degree in physical ed-
ucation or is changing localities for an-
other season,”

W. E. Black, ’06, has been re-elected su-
perintendent of the city schools of Green-
wood, S, C., for the tenth successive year.
He was elected unanimously, and with
the vote went an expression of apprecia-
tion of the services he has rendered.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, dean of the
college of liberal arts in the University of
North Carolina, recently celebrated his
73rd birthday, and on that day issued a
statement regretting the diminishing in-
terest in the classics chiefly because noth-
ing had been found to take their place.

Rev. G. W. Mauze, ’23, of Greenbank,
W. Va., is visiting in Charlotte for a
short time, and Sunday morning he filled
the pulpit of the Second Presbyterian
Church,

Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, of Charlotte,
has been appointed a trustee of the North

Carolina Orthopaedic Hospital at Gas-
tonia by Governor A, W. McLean.

Rev. and Mrs. W. A. Gamble, of Pine-
tops, N. C., announce ‘the birth of a son,
Mr. Gamble is a
member of the 1923 class.

W. M. Cox, Jr., ’24, is now with Mead
Johnston & Co., at Evansville, Ind. He is
working on the physiological problem of
Vitamin D and its relation to the sterol,
ergosterol.

J. H. McKeithan, ’22, is now with the
law firm of Fred Parrish at Winston-
Salem, N. C.

Dr. R. T. Allison, ’20, has recently left
Baltimore and is with the Cincinnati Gen-
eral Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio.

F. T. Mitchell, ’25, is at Pernambuco,
Brazil, having a connection with the Na-
tional City Bank of New York.

Dr. R. S. Cunningham, '11, is now with
the Vanderbilt Hospital, Nashville, Tenn.

Rk. S.
C., has
College

Marshall, ’o9, of Washington, D.
recently presented ‘the Davidson
library with a volume of Who's
Who in the South, a book published by a
corporation of which he is head This in-
cludes most of the men in the official
Who's Who in America, and others who
have attained prominence in every field of
endeavor.

Brazil, in Mexico,

Southern Church.

[f You
Are Going to be a. Preacher..

You Will Find That Union Seminary
Has Sent Many Sons to Preach in

Rev. Alexander E. Wilson,
M. D. One of the first
Missionary ae Africa,

Foreign Lands

The first individual student of

lina. In
he labored for twenty years,

The first group to go abroad
three, who, with their wives,

The example set by these four

Alumni of Union Seminary were among the first on the field in China, Japan,
Siam, India, Persia, and Turkey, and as pioneers doing foundation work,
they actually established or were partners in establishing our missions in
Now they form a large
percentage of the force in each of the seven foreign mission fields of the

in Greece, in Korea, and in Africa.

At Union Seminary the missionary conception of Christianity
has been taught in, under and with everything that ha> been
taught—that the Bible is the greatest missionary textbook in
the world, that Christianity is a religion which climaxes itself
into a world summons to service.
The result is that the students who pass under such tuition asa rule attack
the problems of their holy calling with a world-outlook.

Catalogue and information on request

This is the
ninth ofa
series of

Advertisements

to begin actual work on foreign soil was Thos.
P. Johnston, of Rowan County, North. Caro-
1833 he sailed for Turkey where

Africa in 1834. These endured almost incredible
hardships, but their sacrifices bore fruit.

by other choice young men who went to Turkey
and to Liberia in 1834, to India, to Greece, and
to Persia in 1836, and to Siam in 1839.

Union Seminary

was a group of
sailed for South

quickly followed

!

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D. D., President ,

RICHMOND, VA.

Sze teromone:

