THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

—

Davidson Alumnus Makes
Translation Of Book By
Noted Dr. Sun- Yat-Sen

Dr. Frank Price, ’15, Completes
English Translation of Book
on Chinese Government

CRITICS PRAISE

First Effort at Broadcasting Sun-
Yat-Sen’s Principles

An English translation of “The Three
Principles of Dr. Sun .Yat Sen,” © famous
Chinese leader, has just been competed by
Rev. F. W. Price, '15, and is attracting the
attention and commanding the admiration of
critics throughout America, where the trans-
lation has been distributed by the Chinese
Court of Pacific Relations.

The book, more than 500 pages in length,
gives China’s aims to the English-reading
public for the first time, and is proving valu-
able in acquainting foreigner’s with condi-

tions in war-torn China and the aspirations |

of the revolting Chinese.

Rev. Mr. Price’s translation is the only
effort that has been made to get Dr. Sun Yat
Sen’s governmental doctrines into a form
capable of being read understandingly by

4 and the

“there’s

The busiest line
in town

When you call our number

“line’s busy”, J and after
you ve tried ten times more
the chief operator says %
conversation on

‘Dr. N. L. Anderson ’85

_ Delivers Five Lecturs
For Seminary Students

Personal

| J. W. Thompson, '11, who has been special
‘agent for the Equitable Life Insurance Com-
pany of the Charlotte office for several years,
has resigned his position with that concern
and gone to Hartford, Conn., where he will |:
ae with the Phoenix Mutual Life | Rey, Neal-L. Andérson, D:D, '85, pastor

nsurance Company. He will spend several |

; ‘ ; Heguitp of the Independent Presbyterian Church of

months in the Hartford office, training for a I hpi ;

ans a3 | Savannah, Ga., recently visited the Austin
managerial position.

| Theological Seminary, Austin, Tex., to de-
; : |liver a lectures to conduct
A letter has been received from Dr. G. L. | A ‘: ; ,

| chapel exercises for a number of mornings.

Petrie, 59, in which he stated that it was his | +e ; ;
; ; ; ; | In addition to his addresses before the semi-
present intention to return for the Davidson

commencement in May He said that h jnary student body, Dr. Anderson also preach-
| “me Mav. . g¢ F el t

peri saas: fed at the Firs S p :
{remembers J. J. Stringfellow and Rey. 1 ec st outhern and

eri A , “| Churches.
Condor, both members of the class of 1860. Ber ; : ,
, Confining his lectures to a discussion of

Beige a ; poe {the Shorter Catechism, Dr. Anderson reveal-
, Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, president of Flora j ; i ; ;
. 4 ay {ed in masterful fashion the rich meaning oi
Macdonald College, at Red Springs, recently | , i
; fen eae {that wonderful statement of church doctrine.
delivered two addresses in Rocky “Mount, | ,, nie cy ;
| Emphasizing the principles of the old faith,
| amare ; a —_ ,and pointing out with power the doctrines of
| British and American Citizens, Critics 1M) gin and atonement jhe gave his listeners a
| China have hailed the translation one | clear view of the great fundamental truths
capable of bringing the foreign nations into of religion.
a closer understanding and more-genuine ap- |
| preciation of the ambitions which are moti-
vatig the Chinese in their latest efforts at

| governmental reform. <As_ such trans-

Speaks on Fundamental Doctrin:s
Contained in Shorter Catechism

series of and

University

as

He was received with great enthusiasm at
the Austin Seminary, where 11 years ago he
served as acting president.
five in number and addressed particularly to

: His lectures were
Its

| lator, a Davidson graduate, may find himself

i z aE ithe young seminary students who are pre-
the friend of the lowly Chinee. M ‘ I

paring for the ministry.

|

American Business Club.

Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, has accepted a
call to the Glenwood Presbyterian Church,
in Greensboro, He was formerly pastor at |
Whitsett, N. C., near that city.

News has“betn received in the past few,
days of the death of W. A. Crinkley, 96, |
which occurred August 11, 1926, at his home }
in Blacksstone, Va., and also of the death of/!
A. F, Williams, '64, which occurred at Wil*
son, N. C., April 20, 1926. This was the first |
information the alumni office had received |
about these two men. |

Three 1926 men are located in Chipley,
Fla. S. A. Alford is assistant cashier in the
First National Bank; F. W. Alford is travel-

operator says

Reor Sek

[f You
Are Going to be a. ‘Preacher..

You may be interested in the op-

of the Seminary, Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D., LL.D

t Fi Virginia.
my) §
Ay 4
ee mond, Va.
pay Walter W. Moore Fellowship,

ing for the Chipley Stove Company, and R.
1. Scarlett is with the civil service there.

The latest means of communication coming
to the alumni office is the radiogram. One
was received from Rey. Dwight Chalmers,
‘20, of Greensboro, and was
Station 4DB, operated here at Davidson by

H. H.

received over

Roseberry, ‘26.

Rev. J. N. HL. Summerell, D.D., °73, of
New Bern, N. C.,
tempt to get members of his class who are

is going to make an at-

now living to return for their fifty-fifth class
reunion at It is definitely
known that six of these men are now living,
and the alumni office during the next week
or two, will endeavor to learn about the oth
ers who are listed as living in the catalogue.

commencement.

ANNUAL N. C, Y. M. C. A.

(Continued from page 6)
Report of committee on state committee's
report. Adoption of state budget for 1928.
Financial session for considering budgets of
national council-home, foreign and training
agencies. Foreign Work, D. L. Probert.

Home work and training agencies, Frank S.

Appointment of
6:30 p. m.—An

Smith, J..B. Huntington.
state financial commission.

nual dinner, auspices Winston-Salem Y. M.

C. A. Music by high school orchestra.
Special music. 7:30 p. m.—Address, Chas, |
P. Taft, 11. Special music. 8 :00—Dr.

John Brown. 8 :30—Adjournment. — 7 :30

pices Winston-Salem Y, M. C. A.

Diliy—“Can you play the piano?”
Dally—“I don’t know—I never tried.”
Yale Record.

'

[ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement of the engagement and ap-
proaching marriage of William Coleman
Harris, °'25, and Miss Annette Lindsay

Wright, of Greensboro, has just been receiv
ed at the alumni office. The marriage is to
take place in the early spring.

Miss Wright, the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, Clement Gillespie Wright, is a popular
member of the younger social set in Greens-

boro. She attended Fassifern School, at
Hendersonville, and Converse College, at
Spartanburg.

Mr. Harris, formerly of Reidsvile, is the
son of the late William Coleman Harris and
Mrs. Janie Montgomery Harris, of Greens-
boro, At present he is making his home in
New York, where he is connected with the
Hunter Commission Company. He attended
| Fishburne Military Academy, and later Da-
vidson College. He has a wide circle of
| friends throughout this section.

The Y. M. C. A, cabinet held its regular
| meeting in the home of Dr. Arbuckle, of the
i faculty, on last Sunday evening. Mrs. Ar-
| buckle served delightful refreshments, and
| in every the cabinet was graciously
treated, making the meeting a most enjoyable

way

| one,

“And how do you account for your long
\life?” said the visitor to the village cen-

‘appearing before the Fine Arts Club and the! p, m.—Special dinner of colored men, aus- | tenarian.
|

|
| “Ter the fact that I ain’t dead yet,” said
ithe old man.—Montreal Star.

| gaan
| She was only a baggageman’s daugh
ter, but she knew all the grips.

White Drug Co. |

SERVES.
THE CAMPUS ©

This is the
seventh ofa
series of

\ Advertisements 4

portunities for post
available to students
logical Seminary.

Five Fellowships of Graduate Study have been permanently established at Union Seminary.
In the order of their founding they are:

Moses D. Hoge Fellowship, founded in 1901, by Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond,

Charles D, Larus Fellowship, founded in 1922, by Mrs. Charles D. Larus, Richmond, Va.
Thomas Cary Johnson Fellowship, founded in 1926, by Mr. and Mrs. John H. Reed, Rich-

founded in 1926, through

a bequest from the late President

graduate study
of Union Theo-

Salem Fellowship, founded in 1927, by the Presbyterian Church, Salem, Va.

Fellowships are awarded by the Faculty to members of the graduating class on the
ironnds of distinguished merit and exceptional promise of efficiency in ministerial work.

ey single out the men who win them and set them before the view of the whole church
as men of whom more than ordinary accuracy and fullness of scholarship may be ex-
pected; also more than ordinary range and fruitfulness of service as ministers.

the line” —the explanation
is simple enough.

Of thirty-one Fellows of Union Theological Seminary all are living and active in the
service of the church. Included in this last are the President and six other Professors in
the Seminary and two Professors in the General Assmbly’s Training School, bsides
others in places of leadership at home and in the foreign field.

The New Spring Braeburns
are here and they're some
thing to talk about

$5 $40 S45

MELLO

Charlotte. N. C.

Detailed information concerning these Fellowships will be supplied upon request.

nion Theological Semina

B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

