THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

| I nm ters Colle g Late. .......af. Racqueters for ’29

i |
|

Minneapolis, Minn. (By New Student
Service)—Professional and not educational
organizations are setting the standards for
professional schools, to the great detriment
of unhampered teaching,, writes Dean Fred-
erick J. Kelly, of the University of Min-
nesota, in~a newly published paper on “The
Influence of Standardizing Agencies in Edu-
cation.” By keeping up approved lists and
threatening to strike schools from these lists,

says Dean Kelly, outside agencies are playing |

a large part in determining the schools’ re-
quirements. H points to three dangers grow-
ing out of this situation: endangering of
public confidence on the ground that the pro-
fession limits the numbers of entrants, thus
increasing fees for professional services; an
influence disporportionate to the demand for
curriculum adjustments, and uniformity in
practice stifling: experimentation and imped-
ing progress. Law, medical, pharmaceutical
and dental associations are named as. the
most influential agencies.

Chapel Hill, N. C. (By New Student
Service)—“In America today one does not
attain literary success merely by writing
good literature, but by accomplishing some
such feat as flying the Atlantic or going to
the north pole, then writing about it.” The
complainant was Richard Halliburton, trav-
eler and author, who spoke recently at the
University of North Carolina. His advice to
literary aspirants is: “Do not hope to add
to your ability by reading the works of other
writers. It is waste of time; you must write
from your own rich experience and develop
unaided your own style. Mingle with people,

| pointing to the

dents, are sincerely protesting the prison sen- |

all classes, live with them, know their lives,

try to feel all the emotions of men, and don’t
stay in one spot, move about; it is only
through these things that you will acquire a
true sense of values.” Mr. Halliburton’s con-
tribution to the question of deleterious effects
of studies in journalism on creative writing
was, “Oh no, such a course could only be
beneficial; but ten years on a_ hard-boiled
newspaper staff might have some bad ef-
fects.”

Madison, Wis. (By New Student Service) |
—University of Wisconsin students are in|
disagreement over the case of David Gor-
don, Zona Gale scholar sentenced to prison |
for a derogatory poem concerning America, |
whose freedom has been asked in a petition.
signed by almost 1,000 undergraduates, sent
to the New York parole board. The petition
was sponsored by the Student Forum, which
hardly has had time to recover from the |
Dora Russell imbroglio. Some students are |
petition and shouting “trea- |
son” and “un-American,” and accusing the |
Forum of railroading the appeal for parole. |
However, the “Cardinal,” and numerous stu- |
tence imposed on the young student, and are |
asking for his release on the grounds of his |
sincerity, integrity, and general character. |
The New York World has joined in the ap- |
peal for a parole. . |

New York, N. Y*> (By New Student Servy-
ice)—College editors throughout the land are
applauding the action of the Western Asso-

| ciation of College Comics in breaking their

a,

Bracburn Alibis

Fo Sa HK,
ee

a

See

AEN

ea ee

te.

AS
~

a3

= ie

a

pier

eee rn ee
noes

ee

>

“A Gn

ed

~

z
rye,
ead:

Sy

“2

‘Se.

this quiz.

£3

es

aS

Maa a aE

= ee:
~ eke

Vv ot Se

paears

ore
-
5S

BRAEBURN
Clothes.

oi yl pg ho
Sie DO Eien _
Rise ieisen ead

New Spring

EST sae Ads}

Fata
=
TMs ee

SiS Sag
FSR ey

but you promised to cram for

...d fell for a new spring Brae-
burn and killed the afternoon.

Much of the value of a }
suit of clothes @ is your en-
thusiasm 4 when you wear
it. You will enthuse @ in

$35 $40 $45

4
4

-

; Sees
Fir,
ALY we 27.

University }

Braeburnes

ciety.

Roddey Elected Captain

At a recent meeting of the varsity tennis
men John T. Roddey was elected captain of
the tennis team for next year. Albert N.
Halverstadt was chosen to manage the team
during the next season. :

Roddey, a member of Beta Thea Pi social
fraternity, has been one of Davidson’s most
consistent netmen throughout his stay of
three years here. He was a member of the
Fresh team during his first year and has
since been on the varsity each season. Rod-
dey served as secretary-treasurer of his
Freshman class and vice-preident of the class
during his Soph year. He has also been a
member of the Student Council. He is from
Rock Hill, S. C,

A. N. Halverstadt, of Atfanta, Ga., is also
a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.
He served during the present year on the
Freshman Court of Control, and is a member
of the Beaver Club, Sophomore honor so-
He played onthe Freshman team last
year,

The Davidson netmen have done consist-
ently excellent work during the past two
years, losing only one match in the two sea-
sons.

Contract Let for
Year Book of 192

wo

9

To those interested in the Davidson “Quips
and Cranks,” the management announces
that the contracts have been let for the 1929
Year Book. “The Queen City Printing Com-
pany” and the “Charlotte Engraving Com-
pany” are to have full charge of the produc-
tion of next year’s Annual.

These two concerns are specially adapted
to do this work, as they both have very com-
petent workmen in their service. The
1927 Annual can speak for itself in regard
to the quality of the art and engraving work
done. The book will be made by concerns
which are close enough to enable the staff to
| supervise the work without great inconveni-
{ence to either party concerned.

It might be well to announce ‘to friends of
the Annual who are not aware of the fact,
that the 1927 “Quips and Cranks” won the
national prize for the best annual from a col-
lege with a student body of a thousand or
less. This Annual was made by the same
concerns that are making the present annual.
It will be released some time during the
Senior exam period.

reprint contracts with “College Humor.” It
is generally agreed that the humorous maga-
zine, which purports to reflect college life,
has been giving a distorted view. The break
was especially applauded by editors in the
East, who from the first were among the few
who refused to join in syndicating the con-
tent of the college comics. The Daily Ne-
braskan, however, holds that the fault lies
primarily with the college comic editors, who
published the jokes which “College Humor”
is accused of giving too prominent display.
Elimination of the objectionable jokes from
the college magazines would, it says, more
properly trike at the root of the evil.

Yellow Springs, Ohio (By New Student
Service)—That Andre Siegfried’s popular
book, “America Comes of Age,” was writ-
ten in English, largely by Americans, and is
not a translation from the French, is the con-

| clusion advanced by Dr. Arthur E. Morgan,

president of Antioch College, in an article he
wrote for the “Antiochan.”

Dr: Morgan bases his conjecture on in-
ternal evidence, such as “Statements which
show unusual first-hand knowledge of Amer-
ica” and certain “pepped-up” portions of the
book. He suggests that Siegfried may be an-

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

MJP. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE -
BEST PRICES
Agent for

_ Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Special Y Program
For Mother’s Day

In keeping with the day which is set aside
each year in honor of Motherhood every-
where, the Y.’M. C. A. will hold one of its
most impressive programs in Shearer Hall
on next Sunday evening, May 13th. Prepa- |! :
rations have been made to make this program| Last year the number to sign up was 41,
especially fitting in its tribute to our mothers | however, at the opening of school in the fall
and to all that mother-love means. | only 36 took the course.

, The speaker fo tthe occasion is to be Mrs.| The growing success of the unit at Da-
E. G, Finley, of North Wilkesboro, and her | vidson has been a great incentive to the stu-
message will be very appropriate at this time. | dents to take the advance course. Davidson
There will also be some special music during | for the past two years has won the distin-
the program, guished rating and last year this honor was

It is hoped by the Y. M. C. A. that all of | won with an unusual record, Davidson rank-
the students will realize the significance of | ing among the leading R. O. T. C. units in
the day and make the “Y” service express the America.
personal tribute of every boy to his mother. Those taking the advance course are al-
Therefore the “Y” urges everyone to be pres- | lowed the regular college credits for the
ent on Sunday evening at 6:15. work done: in this line, and also get a small
financial remuneration for their work,

During the summer vacation between the
| Junior and Senior year the student must at-
‘tend an R. Q. T. C. camp for six weeks.

Recalling H. L. Mencken's comment on the | There the student is given thorough practical
book, “So good it seems almost incredible,” | training in the same kind of work that is
Dr. Morgan advances the idea that the “Mer-| taught at Davidson.
cury” staff may have had a hand inthe writ- On finishing the course the student may
ing, so far as internal evidence goes. enlist‘in the Reserve Corps as a second lieu-
| tenant, and if the marks of the student are
| “That's what I call rubbing it in,” said | sufficient to meet the requirements he may
|the contributor to “The Davidson College | entet the regular army as a second lieutenant.
| Magazine,” as he sang into his chair with The interest at Davidson in this branch of
three returned poems whereas he had sub-| study has steadily increased since its instal-
mitted only two. lation several years ago.

R.0.T.C. Signs Fifty-one
to Take Advance Course

In the .recent registration for courses next
year the R. O. T. C. department enrolled the
largest number in the history of the unit at
Davidson, 51 being the number.

other Dumas who makes use of assistants

and understudies.

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1

O! FICERS
R, A. DUNN, President 1. W. STEW ©} + and ‘T cust Odice:
Cc. W. JOHNSTON, Vive-Preekient J.B. DOA" et J
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WIL asisian| Cashier

FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cas

7eeees

THE Students’ Store, un-

der new management, will

continue to serve the stu-

dent body as it has done in

| the past, and will carry on

in the progressive spirit of

| the past Wee = = ee

The Students’ Store

L. D.. KIRKLAND
Manoger

C. R. LAKE
Manager

“IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”

