THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH §, 1928

“Y” Column |

The “VY” regrets very truch that the spring

services met with weh misfortune, Dr.
Green teing uriathe to get here.

and the sincere feeling of regret that the
“YT” ant #2 Mficers have tecauve their plans
were wt aride ws wshenty.
mba 4

The syeaker at “VY” this week will be Dr,
WH. Prazer, president of Oneens CMege,
wl known thrasgheant the Senth as a most
athe speaker and orator, Hie visits always
mean mich tn Davidse, and this one will
Jeep up the same standard, Wear him, if you
like to listers 10 @ great speaker, with a fine
message,

LY.

Next week Law will held the limelight of
attention in the Voeational Guidance field,
and several very prominent men have already
agreed to come and lead these meetings.

Y

Spring elections in the student body will
sexom start, and with them comes a great re
sponsibility in the choosing of men who will
he the hest for their respective ponitions,
Most enpechally shold carefil thought and

It wat
wanting that was wnavidathe, and the!
“YY” hemes that the stadent Ay will under-

New Catalogue to Scholarships in Europe ‘Trip to England

be Released Soon’ Offered to CollegeMen = Awar
| as Crediton A. Degree Mote than 40,000 boys and girls sof public
land private secondary schools throughout the
leountry are enrolled in an Essay Contest

| for Donated Memberships conducted by the
| Brooks-Bright Foundation, according to the

Acunting to the announcement of the

Keyistrar, the catalogue for 19261929 will:
4“ : within the next several weeks. The Selected Students Have Wonderful

secind reating of the proof was made Tues- Chance for Education
day, and the trxke sheasld appear anyway by —_— th

hfe gat NOVEL WAY TO STUDY ss secent returns from secondary school princi-
: ‘pals from 31 states.

the last of. March, There are few changes
Dr. Lingle Will Assist Any Davidson A trip to England and return with all ex-

land additions to the old catalogue, with the

exceytions oh the information concerning , a

fore A Man Interested in Applying . penses paid will be awarded to the boy or
on | girl who submits the prize-winning essay on

Hoos Conrues, which are discussed in
deta. The old catalogue has been mailed
ot to many prospective students, and this.
edition gives all needed information to the
new men, They will probably be mailed
copies of the new catalogue as soon as it
comes cut,

The college catalogue is not the dry book
that it sometimes seems, It is full of good
advice to incoming students, and helpful
facts for old men who are not certain about
many phases of college activity, Especial

American’ college students can now spend |
the Junior year in France and secure courses, | day and Thursday as has already been stated.
|in the general fields of literature, ecomomics, | Another comedy team, Charles Murray and

philosophy, history, and French language. | George Sidney, will be here on Friday in
for which full credit will be granted by most “Flying Romeos.” On Saturday, there will
colleges toward the Bachelor of Arts degree. be a Western, “The Law, of the Range.”
For the assistance of highly recommended | The program will be as follows:
students interested in the Junior year abroad | Thursday—Wallace Berry arid Raymond
‘idea, the Institute of International Educa- Hatton in “Partners in Crime.”

tion has established some 20 competitive | Friday—Harold Bell Wright’s “The Shep-
departments are devoted to helping new men, scholarships of $300 cach. heard of the Hills.”
decide upom their life work, and advising This course is available for American col- | Saturday—Zane Grey's
them as to what courses to pursue, Better lege Juniors, who are of high standing in| Rim”

than anything else, it wives a complete | their ‘academic work, od is limited to the | Monday sid’ Tudsday—"A* Giel Ta very
resume of life as it is lived on the Davidson | general ficlds mentioned above. No courses |

PF Beko hasnt | Port,” with Victor McLaughlin and Louise
campus, The “Y" has recently made a prac- | are offered in the natural sciences, chemistry, |

“Under Loato’s

tice of placing in its files all the catalogues | physics, biology, that can he successfully Bites: i :
‘ 4 Leh Wednesday and Thursday—‘The Legion

for Essay. ,

comsideration be given to the men who arelof cher schools that are available, so that correlated with those given in the first two |
to lead the “Y" on ite next year of work, It! men may yo to the “Y” rooms and consult | years of an American college. A minimum |
was mont fortunate in the officers for this) these books about various courses and studics |Of four years of French, either in school or |

present year, for the men in the various that other schools offer, After all the college | college, is required.

places have done their work in a way that catalogue is a splendid source of information |

The cost of the year, from July to July, |

In beyond a reproach and moat commendable, and every man would do well to make more | which includes 12 weeks in the summer ses- |

indeed,
to think on this, and decide on the men who
will keep the work of the “Y" at the high
level that it has reached in this and other
years, Thin isn YOUR responsibility are
YOU going to accept thin duty, and give
your thought to it, that the “Y" may benefit?

Junle-“Diek didn't blow out his brains
when you rejected him, tHe eame around
and proposed to me,”

Jeannette “Then he must have potten
rid of them some other way,”
Tit Vite,

London

"Sit, [have proposed to your daughter”

"Welle!

“And she refers me to you.” :

“Vien your case te fiopeless.  Youin
vile Courier Journal

And so it is the duty of every man!

of a friend of it than he does,

If the freshmen of next year will bring
in some good material, prospects for the
1y2y Wildcat football team will be bright.
Vy that time, several members of the
present team will have developed into the
wonder players for which Coach Monk
is famous, and if there is a good bunch of

inaterial coming up from next year's

freshman class, the team will be a worthy |

suce@sxsor of the famous 1926 champion
ship team, It takes about four years to

sion of a French University, is about $1,500. |
| This will cover the round-trip ocean voyage,
‘railroad travel in France, room and board,
tuition fees, and all other necessary expenses
| except .clothing.

| Advantages that ‘may be secured from a

| year's study in France are obvious: |
| (i). Ability to read, write, speak andun-|
lderstand French with ease. A rare accom-
| plishment in the United States, |
| (2) Preparation to teach French or to fill |
governmental or business positions in|

| French-speaking countries. (French is re- |

of the Condemned,” starring Gary Cooper
and Fay Wray.

Friday—Charles Murray and George Sid-
ney in “Flying Romeos.”

Saturday—"“The Law of the Range.”

N. C. Commander is
Recipient of Review

Gen. Albert L. Cox, of the Army Reserve
Corp, received the review of the R. O. T. C.
battalion yesterday afternoon. General Cox
is the ranking officer of the Reserve Corps,
and the state commander of the American
Legion. He was in this vicinity as the guest

build up a team, and Wildcat backers can | garded as the almost universal language: it jof honor of the local post of the Legion.

look for a good team that will make a bid
for the championship every four years, In
hetween these years there will be periods
of seemingly these
will not last Wildcats
will be seen near the top every now and
then “

endless defeats, but
forever, and the

Davidson

Every

MONDAY
Louise Brooks and Victor McLaglen in “A Girl in

= TUESDAY
Rod LaRoque in “Stand and Deliver”
WEDNESDAY
“Good Time Charley”
THURSDAY
“The Legion of the Condemned.” This is a good one
; FRIDAY
Charles Murray and George Sydney in Flying Romeos

SATURDAY
Buck Jones in a good Western

Thesivs

Port”

Victor Records released March 9, 1928

21218---Ol’ Man Rixey, Make Believe. Paul Whiteman and

his orchestra

21219---After My Laughter Came Tears---Fox Trot, In the
Sing-Song Sycamore Tree---Fox Trot,

21220---Together. Four Walls, Franklin Baur and Best of All
85583---Together. My Heart Stood Still. Paul Whiteman and

his orchestra

DON’T FAIL TO HEAR THESE MARVELOUS
NUMBERS :

| Davidson Book and Stationery Co.
Whete =e and Quality Reign

The Virginians

»

lean be used for business purposes in half of |
the countries of Europe and many of the!
larger countries of South America).

(3) Broadening of one’s viewpoint grow-
ing out of a year’s study of a civilization
not one’s own,

(4) Acquaintance with a great literature, |
an acquisition that will be of permanent use-
fulness and joy. Opportunity to see and
to study some of the world’s greatest col-
jlections of painting and sculpture; and to
see and hear masterpieces of opera and |
drama, |

(5) .All these things without a loss of time

jin college course and at an expense not much
greater than that for an average twelve
weeks’ vacation trip to Europe.
This plan of a year’s study abroad has re-
ceived the hearty support and encouragement
of many larger American colleges and uni-
versities. Realizing the ultimate value of
assisting select students, who otherwise
would not be able to secure the broadening
knowledge and finished polish of work
abroad, the Institute of International Edu-
cation has offered the above mentioned com-
petitive scholarships.

Those interested in the Junior year abroad
idea and the particulars regarding this col-
lege’s attitude toward the plan, may receive
all information from Dr. T, W. Lifgte,
head of the French Department.: Dr, Lingle
thas application blanks for the scholarship
| awards and will gladly assist any Davidson
man interested,

Featured Shows Listed
at Theatre Next Week

Varied Program Offered to Ardent
Mavie Fans

For next week, the Davidson Theater has
prepared one of the best programs of the
year, The feature of the week is probably
“The Legion of the Condemned,” which
stars Gary Cooper and Fay Wray. This
picture will very likely be shown on next
Wednesday and Thursday, and is’ said to be
one of the best, pictures of the season. On
this Thursday, Wallace Beery and Raymond

appear in “Partners in Crime.” On Friday
the screen/ version of Harold Bell Wright's
novel, “The Shepherd of the Hills,” will be
shown, A film version of Zane Grey’s latest
novel, “Under Loato’s Rim,” will be here
Saturday, On Monday and Tuesday, Vic-
tor McLaughlin and Louise Brooks will ap-
pear in “A Girl In Every Port.” All re:
ports show that this movie is fine. Gary
Cooper and Fay Wray in “The Legion of
the Condemned,” will be shown on Wednes-

Xu

| where he makes his home,

Hatton, the well-known. comedy team, will |

General Cox made a short talk to the bat-
talion while it was in line for calesthenics.
While here at Davidson he was entertained
by Dr. J. W. McConnell.

General Cox is now a lawyer in Raleigh,
During the war
he commanded a regiment of artillery enlist-
ed from this part of the country.

This high official was here last year about
three days just before the War Department
inspection with General Boley and a large
number of officers. It is said that he was
greatly impressed with the appearance of the
Davidson unit, and that he remarked that the
men on parade looked as good as any regu-
lars he had seen,

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP

(Continued from page 1)
Edinburgh, Dublin or on the Con-
tinent, he can be admitted to the fourth
year class at Johns Hopkins or Duke Uni-
versity and obtain his M.D. degree in the
same length of time as he would have.
had he not gone t® Oxford.

There is great liberty of choice of
study at Oxford and a medical student
can vary his work to suit his own require-
ments. or preferences. Some Rhodes
scholars choose to spend three years in
obtaining the B.A. degree in phvsiology
in order that they may do more extensive
work in the pre-clinical subjects; others,
especially those who have already had
one or two years in an American medi-
cal school, study for the D. Phil. (Ph D.)
degree in some medical subject. Al-
though some of these plans may fequire
more than the usual four years for the
M.D. degree. the benefits of the addition-
al training and the firmer medical-founda-
tion more than compensate for the added
time.

the subject, “As the white population of the
United States of America and the British
Commonwealth of Nations has increased in
the past century from 20,000,000 to 170,000,-
000, in how far will the continued growth of
population and the diminishing food. supply
affect the future relations between these two
peoples and to what-extent will it affect their
relations to other nations?”

Twenty-six free memberships in, the .
Brooks-Bright: Foundation, vatued at $2,000
each, will be awarded to the 26 schools which
report the highest percentage’ of: participa-
tion in the contest in proportion to the total
enrollment. Each principal will conduct his
own school-contest and will submit to the di-
rectors of the foundation the prize-winning
essay of his own school.

A board of competent judges selected by
the foundation will pass on the merits of
the interscholastic essay.

The Brooks-Bright Foundation, which was
organized five years ago by Florence Brooks-
Aten, of New York City, has grown rapidly
in membership and in influence. The almost
unanimous support of the leading private
schools in the country is evidence of the
growing tendency of international good feel-
ing in American youth. It is Mrs. Brooks-
Aten’s contention that if anything permanent
is to be accomplished in the promotion of
better understanding between the nations of
the world it is to youth to whom the appeal
should be made. A more complete under-
standing of the economic and political rela-
tions between the United States of America
and the British Commonwealth of Nations is
the aim of the foundation’s work.

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs.

Government.

R, A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

ae

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

I, W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Aset. Cashier? *
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

OR THO

The New

a VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

PHONIC

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N.C.

°
