THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

| Popular Davidson Girl
Marries Charlotte Boy

Daughter of Dr. Lingle Married to
Mr. R. C. Garth

A wedding of much pfominence and inter-
est in the Southern Presbyterian Church
was that of Miss Sarah, Souther Lingle and
Robert Campbell Garth, the latter of Char-
lotte, which was solemnized in the David-
son Presbyterian Church during the Christ-
mas_ holidays.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va.,
uncle of the bride, officiated.

The church was decorated in towering
cedar and masts of holly and branched
candlesticks holding lighted tapers. The
music was played by Miss Hattie Thompson.

Prior to the ceremony, Miss Grace James

and Miss Dorothy Finlayson sang “The
Sweetest Story Ever Told,” and Mrs. Guy

Vowles sang “Because” and “God Gave. Me
You.”

The bride was given in marriage by her
father, Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, prominent
member of the Davidson College faculty.

C. V. Garth, brother of the groom, was
best man, and Miss Mary Shepherd Parker,
of Norfolk, was maid of honor.

A charming reception followed the cere-
mony at*the home of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle.
Receiving with them were the bridal party
and Rey. J. G. Garth and Mrs. Garth, of
Charlotte, parents of the groom.

Miss Lingle is the only daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Lingle, and is one of the state’s
most charming and cultured young girls, She
attended Salem College and was graduated
from Smith College, at both of which places

College Education
Highly Profitable

Chicago—Best New Year’s resolution any
Dad could make is to give his son a college
education.

College education is worth»$72,000. This
is a profit of 1,200 per cent on an original
investment of $6,000, which is the average
total cost of a four years’ course in college.

Deducting the cost of the education itself,
the student adds to his future income at the
rate of approximately $15,000 a year during
the time he is in college.

As classes are held only five days a week,

the student for each day spent in the class
room.

These statements were made by Otto Y.
Schnering, president of the Baby
Candy Company, who is an alumnus of the
University of Chicago, in an address here.

“A college education is not only very es-
sential in modern business, but highly profit-
able, if the student spends his time in real
study,” Mr. Schnering said. “The annual
average income of a high school graduate is
2,200 and that of a college graduate $6,000.
Total earnings of the two classes of men up
to the age of 60 are approximately placed at
$78,000 and $150,000. This gives the college
graduate a lead of $72,000 over the high
school youth.

“This is the age of specialization and
| scientific management: in busitiess, in which
;a college education is becoming
| absolute necessity.”

almost an

Christmas Song Service

this means potential earnings of $70 a day to

Ruth |

won her many friends,

. . . Pyeedll |
The bridegroom jis a son of Rev. and Mrs. | ;

her bright intellect and attractive personality | Rendered By Glee Club

<

V—“O Little Town of Bethlehem’ (In
Concert).

VI—“The First Noel”: Glee Club Quartet.

Glee Club.
VIlI—Prayer.

(In Concert).

X—"The Birthday of a King”:
Vowles.

XI—“We Three Kings of Orient Are”:
Glee Club.

XII—Scripture — Matthew 2:1-12 (Re-
sponsive).

XITI—“Joy to the World” (In Concert).

XIV—Benediction.

XV—Postlude — “Silent Night”:
Quartet.

Mrs.

Brass

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS
|

| (Continued from page 1)

will be necessitated. The plan as proposed
jcalls for the taking over of the present

|holdings of the local chapters, by the col- !

| lege, with the purchase price, plus the cost
| of such improvements as has been incurred.
| The plans call further for houses to be
| built by the college and rented to the’ chap-
| ters for a specified fee. The location will be
| either on the present site of Louisiana Dor-
| mitory or Concord Street, adjoining Rich-
jardson Field. The houses will not cost more
a five thousand dollars and will probably
| be of brick construction.

}~-The action taken by thi§ committee comes

obtain houses in town only three years ago.

Members of the Board of Trustees com-
| posing the committee were: Dr. W. L. Lin-
|gle, Mr. R. A, Dunn, Mr. J; A. Cannon,
| Mr. H. N. Pharr, and Mr. W. H. Belk.
| Faculty representatives were: Dr. M. E.
| Sentelle, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. Me-

VII—“Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”: |

IX—“It Came Upon the Midnight Clear” |

as a surprise to many as the fraternities !
| were allowed to move from the campus and

| Fourth Corp Area Ranks First

| Figures just made available by the War
! Department show that the eight states of
| the southeast comprising the Fourth Corps

| Area ‘lead all others in the United States in
per cent of R. O. T. C. students to the total
number of students enrolled in the institu-
tions maintaining military training.

The data furnished is based upon enroll-
ments for the first semester of the present
school year. Of the total 124,833 Reserve
| Officers’ Training Corps students in the en-
tire United States and Halaii, 19,256 were
enrolled in the Fourth Corps Area. In the
corps area the state of Georgia stood first
with an enrollment of 5,952, while Teinessee
was second with 3,503, and Alabama third
| with 3,068.

Not only does this section of the country
stand first in the manner stated, but the fig-
ures reveal, as in past years, that it also
|} leads all other corps areas in the total num-
(ee of educational institutions that maintain
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps units. The
total number of sych institutions in the
| United States and Hawaii is 323 and 52 of
these are to be found in Alabama, Florida,
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Caro-
lina, South Carolina and Tennessee, the
states af the Fourth Corps Area.

Maj. Gen. Richmond -P. Davis, Fourth
Corps Area Commander, in commenting up-
on this excellent showing, said, “This re-
veals a gratifying record for the entire coun-
try and particularly for the states of the
It indicates the great popularity
of R. O. T. C. training among the youth of
this section of the country. It shows appre-
ciation of the worth of such training by

southeast.

In Ratio of Students Enrolled

whom great credit is due for such an en-
viable This part of the United
States has always been in the forefront
when the question is one of public service,
and here again we have another illustration
to further establish that as a fact.”

General Davis declared, “This indicates a
definite sign of discredit to the efforts of
various insidious organizations which have
in some institutions attempted to poison the
minds of our youth towards this valuable
democratic training.”

In conclusion, he said, “The Organized
Reserve, which will constitute the bulk of
our Army in another National emergency,
are dependent upon the R. O. T. C. first,
and the C. M. T. C. second, for keping up
their commissioned strength. As the years
go on and age and other causes take from
the rolls of the Organized Reserve those
officers who saw service in the World War,
the bulk of our army must be officered from
the product of these two valuable reservoirs,
the R. O. T. C. and the C. M. T. C.”

record,

RUSK HONORED

(Continued from page 1)
bank. Rusk comes from Atlanta, Ga., where
he attended the Boys’ High School.

The election was conducted by Hugh Ar-
rowood, Student Body president, assisted by
Caldwell Withers, president of the Senior
Class.

“What was the name of the hotel you
stopped at in Denver, dear?”
“Oh, I can’t remember the name. Just

a second and I'll look through my tow-

J. G. Garth, of Charlotte. He is a graduate | els.”"—Tawney Kat.

i Connell, and Mr. F. L. Jackson.
of Davidson and is a member of Sigma | Mrs. Vowle and Brass Quartette

heads of institutions and their faculties, to

Alpha fraternity, now being engaged in | ee SS ees == 2 ——
teaching and research work at Columbia’ . ; ae ere lit
ee Satay : oa “| The annual Y, M. C. A. Vesper service | |
broniabie | pee ene Sate ity: | conducted by the Glee Club was given Sun- | é
Mr ail Nive Geek will pat sein A | day night, December 18th. The Glee Club, e e e
ie New York oe ene, seen OTe | aaiated by Mrs. Vowles and a brass Guns Ks
; i ; tet, rendered a very impressive program toa! |W
Besides Charlotteans attending the wed- | ,, F ‘ Se | #O hion €0 0 1Ca
ding, there were the following guests: Dr. | ites sue se a anette coe | :
Walter L, Lingle, of Richmond, Va.: Rev_| The spirit Christmas pervaded the,
ee yes Wa ect ‘| building in the form of red and green deco-
tat Mee V. Gank Sn Seegh aie Can ei the ever ith RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Pepoy of Hick a We nus Aol AH varied colored lights around lent their touch | 9 4 a!
ied eR AE ER tt MBC A) of cheer to the carol singing. | {U
| The brass quartet began the service by | rR
playing a series of carols from the back’ |/l! 1 YOU ARE GOING TO BE A PREACHER, YOU WILL FIND AT UNION SEMINARY A BODY
H A IR J ? stage. The Glee Club quartet followed this | x
cs | Ceti iets. eae tae OF TEACHERS UNUSUALLY WELL FURNISHED FOR THE TASK
t ight.” roughout the program soft | hs
WE GIVE | strains of music were hear dto come from | ! OF MAKING PREACHERS '
| afar, | 1h .
The voices of the singers seemed to be |
PROMPT overflowing with the true spirit of Christ-
mas. Mrs. Vowles sang especially well,
AND “The Birthday of a King,” by Neidlinger. | i
SATISFACTORY The entire program follows: | l F
I—Prelude—"Ye Olde Waits”: Brass | iW
SERVICE Quartet. |
II—“Silent Night”: Glee Club Quartet. |
I1I—Scripture—Luke 2:1-19.
NORTON’S |) woman |
I
BARBER SHOP Mrs. Raymond Adams, of Chapel Hill; 1
. Mrs. “Cornelia S. Craig and Miss
’ Edith Souther, of St. Louis, Mo.; Dr.
Zz wesesesees: and Mrs. E. P. Tompkins and Souther
Tompkins, of Lexington, Va.; Mr. and Mrs.
FE L 1G O W S! Henry G. Harper, Jr., of Charlotte; Miss
Sophie Hall, of Salisbury; Miss Grace Rid-
You’ll always find a well- dle, of Morganton; Miss Mary Shephard
Paeker, of Norfolk, Va.; Miss Sarah Boren, 1 Ky
equipped U-Drive-It Ford of Greensboro; Miss Lois Efird, of Winston-| Mi
Salem; Pendleton Tompkins, of Lexington, +
at the right price at Va.; Judge and Mrs. Randleman; Mr. and
: te e Mrs. Sidney Jones. and Miss Mary Jones;
illing Mr. and Mrs. Rouzer, all of Salisbury; Dr.
Henderson s F Station George Tompkins and family, of Lynchburg, ‘
DAVIDSON, N. C. Va.; Miss*Myra ‘Kearney, of Converse Col-| x
ee oe: = p sa lege.
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
' and Goldsmith ; i
; ' ssor i i iti y > Faculty Jnion Seminary:
Myers Hardware and Sporting Gocds Co. fh . A Professor in one of our great universities says of the Faculty of Union Seminary
CHARLOTTE, N. C. ; ‘
— “Tf one has to meet constantly the problems raised by current
Philosophy, Psychology and Biblical Criticism, his teachers must !
i ave si out every
¢. ° | have been progressive scholars, men who have sifted ou
xfords, Shoes, Shirts " ;
If ie need of ang O: f ; 2 l grain of truth however deep the chaff of error, And Union comes
Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat nearer realizing this ideal than any institution with which I have
i ] ts ever come in contact. Not one of her professors lacks an essential
come in; we can su our wan 5 ha
o : Py Y qualification of the highest type of the teacher of ministers.”
+
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO ME secmee rer | Cini Mae |
Sth Door from Bank ;
es = !

——————

—"_——

