o

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

Town News

Davidson Girls Are Honored at Various
Colleges

Miss Mary Hamilton of Davidson was
recently elected president of the student
body at Converse for the coming year.
Her sister, Miss Martha Hamilton, who is
a graduate of N.'C. C. W., is now working
on her M.A. degree: at Columbia Univer-
sity.

Davidson is quite honored in having
Misses Lucy Currie and Miss Adele Ar-
buckle as presidents of the freshman
classes at Salem-and Agnes Scott respec-
tively.

Miss Charlotte Hunter was president of
her class one year and has recently been
elected to the office of president of the
Athletic Association at Agnes Scott.

Miss Maud Vinson, who teaches French
at Davidson High School, plans to spend
the summer.at-the Allianée Francaise in
Paris taking further work in French.

Dr. J. M. Douglas and Prof. Wood plan

Professors Lilly, Cummings, and Moore
are planning to cross in the same ship in
June. Professor Cumming is to do re-
search work in the British Museum in
London. Professor Moore is to study and
travel in ‘France. . It is Professor Lilly’s
intention to follow the trail of Norse
Sage in Scandinavian lands.

NATIONAL HONORARY FRAT

(Continued from page 1)
doors for there»are local organizations at
University of Florida, Carolina, and Wash-
ington and Lee who are in line for petitions.
From a small beginning the fraternity has
grown until the bond now includes more tha
240 initiates.

The two-day meeting which will be held
on Tuesday and Wednesday, will include both
closed and public addesses, Dr. White, of
Penn. State, being one of the principal
speakers, along with R. W. Graves, former
student of Davidson, who is now taking
graduate work at Princeton University, and
who is only one of the few men that the
Davidson chapter has sent into advanced
work along the line of physics and the allied
branches of engineering, Mr.
president of the fraternity.

The program as announced by Professor
Fulcher for the convention includes the fol-
lowing events:

All sessions held at Quadrangular Club
room on campus.

TUESDAY, APRIL 10

11:40 a. m—Short meeting of the Exec-
utive Council,

2:15 p. m.—First session:
1. Report of the secretary and treasurer.

2. Reports and recommendations of the
delegates.

3. Discussion of these reports,
4, “The Use of the Vacuum Tube Os-
cillator in Making Laboratory Measure-

Graves is

Beginners’ Golf Outfits.

|

Next Year’s Prealioan

Class Nearly Complete

One Hundred and Twenty-One Ap-
plications Accepted—Large Class
to be Enrolled

Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar of Da-
vidson College recently announced that
half of the freshman class which will en-
ter Davidson next fall had been selected.
He stated that 121 applications had al-
ready been accepted and that rather an
unusual feature was the. fact that only
two applications had been refused be-
cause of deficiency.

Mr. Hengeveld also said that he had
complied with over 500 requests for cat-
alogues and application blanks throughout
the South. Another’ inteyésting fact was
the many applications coming from stu-
dents in preparatory schools located in
Virginia, Tennessee and Georgia.

The freshman class entering next fall |

will be larger than usual—fifty more than
this year according to the present out-
look. This is due to the exceptionally
large graduating members of the student
body, for 129 seniors at Davidson are ex-

| pected to receive their diplomas May 3oth.
to spend the summer traveling in Europe. |

This is 35 more than for the past several
years.

ments,” Dr. R. C. Young, William and Mary |

College.

5. Baseball Game, Penn. U. vs. Davidson.

7:30 p.-m.—Shearer Hall:

1. ‘Aims and Ideals of Sigma Pi Sigma,”
Dr. J. M. Douglas, Davidson ‘College.

2. Address of Welcome, Dr. W. J. Mar-
tin, President of Davidson College.

3. “Energy Relation in- X-Ray Tubes,”
Dr. Marsh White, Penn. State College.

9:30 p. m.—Banquet/given by the Apha
chapter.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11

9:30 a. m.—Second session:

1. Address by President Graves.

2. Report of committees.

3. An informal discussion, “The Training
of Physicists,” led by Dr. White.

4. Other papers or presentations.

5. Business ‘meeting and election of of-
ficers.

2:30 p.:m.—Inspection of Mt. Holly Dam
and other points of interest.

STATE MEET

(Continued from page 1)
Phoenix, and Farmer, of Wilmington, who
each had 10 points.

At the close of the events, F. L. Jackson,
treasurer of the college, presented to Cap-
tain Reid, of Charlotte, the silver loving
cup. This cup was won last year by. Char-
lotteanctis the gift of the Davidson’ College
Athletic Association.

Summary :

100-yard dash—Farmer, Wilmington, first ;
Hancock, Wilmington; Gorham, Raleigh;
Hancock, High Point. Time,10:3.

220-yard dash—Farmer, Wilmington, first ;
Hancock, Wilmington; Hancock, High
Point; Hicks, Charlotte. , Time, 24:6.

120-yard low hurdles—Reid, Charlotte,
first; Evans, Asheville; Watt, Statesville ;
Hunter, Charlotte. Time, 14:9.

We offer a set of four Clubs and

Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

' CHARLOTTE, N. C.

4

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

Se W Pitetsvies

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon).

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

White Drug Co.
" SERVES |
_.. THE CAMPUS —

| hospital.

.

(Continued from page 1)
for today sees the field of the specialist vast-
ly overcrowded.

The average income of the doctor at the
present time is about $7,000 annually. How-
ever, it was pointed out that the income of
the individual depended largely upon the
business ability and past training along those
lines.

It is a current fallacy that the medical pro-
fession is being overcrowded, and that it has
been in this same condition for quite some
time. The statistics show that for every
1,300 people there’is but one doctor. This is
due in part to the fact that in the past few
years the graduating classes of medical col-
leges, have been greatly decreased. Indeed,
very shortly, three institutions are to be
abandoned beéause of the inferior quality of
the preparation they have been giving their
| students,

|

But five things are a prerequisite to suc- |
|cess, according to Dr. Davison. These are: |
Intellectual honesty, work, enthusiasm, sense |
of service, and an intellectual curiosity.

In contrast, the apparent causes of failure
for the average’ man, are: a lack of charac-
iter, marrying a woman with wealth, a lack
}of intellectual curiosity, bad' habits, and a
\lack of interest in the work.

It is urgent that he who is planning to en
|ter the medical profession decide at an early
| period in his life, so that he may better pre-
pare himself throughout high school as well
as college. Another reason for this is that
it should encourage him to try and be through
with college work at the age of 19 or 20, so
that he may take a few years’ work in some

Contact with fellow’students in preparation
also, has a very great influence on the stu-
dent. Therefore care should be taken in |
picking the school, that the college-picks its |
students.

In closing, Dr. Davison enumerated a few |

of the details of possible interest regarding
Duke’s Medical School. It is to. be opened
in the year 1930. One of the special fea- |
tures of this school is that it is to have a.ses- |
sion in the summer, that the students may.
complete their courses in three years, thus
giving them a year of hospital work, as well
as acquainting the students with the sum-
mer courses,

440-yard run—Olsen, Wilmington, first; |
Fleagle, Davidson; Weaver, Greensboro;
Lindeman, Greensboro, Time, 55.

880-yard run—Phoenix, Greensboro, first;
Olson, Wilmington; Sherrill, Charlotte;
Horney, Greensboro, Time, 2:7-4.

Mile run—Phoenix, Greensboro, first;
Bennett, Wilmington; Davenport, Charlotte;
Ingram, High Point. Time, 4:55.6.

Mile relay—Asheville, first; Charlotte,
Raleigh, High Point. Time, 3:49. 4

Pole vault—Houston, Charlotte, first;
Gurley, High Point; Hudson, Barium
Springs, and Brown, Statesville, tied for
third. Height, 9 feet 11 inches.

Since 1868
the Home of Good Shoes

INEXPENSIVE

Oxfords for young men---
like those we are showing
now ---can possess quality
without the expected ex-

pense .

Those we are showing are
just such shoes. And they
are worthy of :your atten-
tion. :

Come in

Gilmer-Moore Co.

Charlotte, N.C.
SHOES LUGGAGE

to be Held at

Boxing Progresses .
Under Capt. Elkins

Recently a great deal of interest has
been taken in boxing. Captain Elkins of
the R. O. T. C. department has taken
charge and is giving instructions four
times a week. The classes are held on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday nights. Those taking boxing have
two classes a week on Tuesdays and
Thursdays or on Wednesdays and Fri-
days.

The purpose ‘of-this boxing is to arouse
interest, in the student body and’ finally
to have intercollegiate boxing. This box-
ing of course will help the boxers physi-
cally, although the high aim is to start in-
tercollegiate boxing between Davidson
and other colleges.

Before entering the ring the boys are
weighed and put in their respective
classes. Later in the year elimination
bouts will be held among the freshmen.
The winners of each class will receive a
prize. There will also be exhibition bouts
of the heavy-weights and older students.

Already about thirty boys are out for
boxing, but Captain Elkins. hopes that
others will come out.

The college has also taken a great deal
of interest in boxing. The Athletiz As-
sociation has recently bough¢ six pairs of
gloves and a punching bag. Dr. Martin
has_had’a regulation size riajr built in a
very convenient place. It wi soon de
covered and lighted in order that bouts
may be held at night.

Several colleges have already orlered
Davidson bouts with their boxers. Some
of them are Washington and Lee, Virginia
Military Institute, Georgia Tech, and the
Army. Boxing has taken a prominent
part in other colleges and it is honed that
it will take its place in Davidson.

Broad jump—Johnson, Charlotte, first;

Woodside, Charlotte; Robinson, Greens-
boro; Holmes, Asheville. Distance, 19 feet
7 inches.

High jump—Reid, Charlotte, and Johnson,
Charlotte, tied for first; Johnson and Robin-
son, Greensboro, and Ellis, Statesville, tied
for second. Height, 5 feet 6 inches.

Shot put—T. Brown, Greensboro, first:

Mullis, Charlotte; Wasson, © Statesville ;
Slaughter, Raleigh. Distance, 45 feet 8
inches,

Javelin—Gurley, High Point, first; T,
Brown, Greensboro; Armfield, High Point;

Mullis, Charlotte. Distance, 149 feet 3)
inches, |
Discus—Mullis, Charlotte, first; T. Brown, |

Greensboro; Gurley, High Point; Anderson,
Salisbury. Distance, 122 feet 2 inches.

PI BOTUTEO ROTO

WELL-KNOWN AUTHORITY | Southern F oa ae College Men
| niv.

of Ala. in April

The seventh annual convention of the
Southern Federation of College Students
is to be held at the University of Alabama,
April 19, 20, and 21, 1928. This federation,
whose purpose is to promote student gov-
ernment methods, was founded at Georgia
Tech in 1921. Davidson became a member
of the organization in 1923 when the ‘con-
vention was held at Chapel Hill. There
are now twenty-one members of the fed-
eration including Davidson, Duke, State,
V. P. IL, Washington and Lee, Florida,
Tennessee, Maryland, Emory. Georgia
Tech, Kentucky, Mississippi A. & M., and

PURUTOTOTOUMOI

If You Want Your Frat Pin Back

Take Her a Bag o”
Lance’s Salted Peanuts

Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

LAN TON TANT ANA @V TON ONION ONAN ION ONAN /ON OXI a\it/a\t evi/eNn exis

Richmond.

The present officers are Walter James,
of Geofgia Tech, president; John Bullock,
Kentucky, vice-president, and Boyce Mar-
tin, of Davidson, secretary and treasurer.

The delegates have not as yet been
definitely chosen to represent the differ-
ent members, but it is expected there will
be a complete list of them by the first of
April.

| The program for the convention is as
| follows: :
| Thursday afternoon, April 19th: Regis-
itration of delegates, assignment of dele-
gates to fraternity houses; petitions of
{non-member colleges received; baseball
| game, Tech vs. Alabama; Scabbard and
| Blade dance (night).

| Friday morning, April 20th: Welcome
|by Dean Albert Farrah, of the University
‘of Alabama Law School; response by
| Walter James, president of the federa-
tion; “Student Standards of Action,” by
Dr. Lang, head of philosophy department
of the University; and open forum discus-
|sion on the college Y. M. C. A,, led by
| Clower, of Emory.

| Friday afternon: “The . Outlook for
| Student Government,” by Dr. Barnwell,
|dean of the University of Alabama; the
| “Scope and Influence of Student Govern-
|ment,” open forum discussion, led by
| Hill, of Alabama; “Co-operation of the
|N. S. F. A. and the S. F. C. S.,” by Miller,
of Washington and Lee, president’ of N.
|S. F, A.; Junior prom.

| Saturday morning: “Athletics and the
College Man,” by Coach Wade, of the
| University; “School. Spirit,” open forum,
‘led by Doerr, of Maryland.

Saturday night: Banquet, given by the
| Student Government Association of Ala-
|bama. Speakers: Dr, G. H. Denny, pres-
ident of the University of Alabama and

Ex:Governor W. W. Brandon, of Ala-
bama.,

That out in the western parts of Pennsy]l-
vania the schoolmarms still us hickory sticks

to make their pupils smart.—Pennsylvania
| Punch Bowl.

POTUTOTOT

‘NANI TAN TAX TeX IVeNliVe\ilVaxiivextivenitvenl

ee:

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY, APRIL 2nd
Phyllis Flaver in “Chicago”
TUESDAY, APRIL 3rd
“The Escape” with William Russell and Virginia Valli
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4th 9
Karl Dane and Geo. Arthur in “Circus Rookies”
THURSDAY, APRIL 5th
Esther Ralston in ‘Something Always Happens”
FRIDAY, APRIL 6th
Laura LePlantte in “Thanks for the Buggy Ride”
SATURDAY, APRIL 7th
Ken Maynard in “Canyon of Adventure”

