JUNIOR
29

ISSUE

THEDA

ED SONIAN

JUNIOR
729

ISSUE

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. &,

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1928

No. 28

Relinquishes Hold to:
 Newly-Elected Body

Past Student Council
|

Services for New Council—Hill
Addresses Student Body

Installation of the recently elected student
body officers and the §fudent council took
place on the morning of April 18th, at
chapel. Ex-President:‘Hugh Arrowood con-
ducted the ceremony, which was opened by
swearing in the council. After this he ex-
pressed in a few words the appreciation of
the retiring coufftil for the co-operation
which has been evinced by the members of
the studefit body during the past, and for the,
confidence which they have placed in the
council. Bob Kell, the new student presi-
dent, followed this by expressing on behalf
of the new council the appreciation of the
trust confided in them. , He made the state-
ment. that the policy of the council will be to

strictly enforce the laws of the student con-,

stitution, and he solicited the help of each
member of the student body.

He called attention to the fact that there
are few restrictions placed on the students,
‘and that these are for the welfare and bene-
fit of the students in their campus life.

The new council is made up as follows:
From the rising Senior class, Bob Kell, pres-
ident of the student body; Monroe Gilmour,
president of the class; Mac King, Bill Pow-
ell, Bill Bailey, Fred Ratchford, and John
Melton; from the rising Junior class, Zeb
Long, president of the class; Tom Brohard,
John McInnis, and Carl Pritchett; and from
the rising Sophomore class, Pete Glidewell,
president of the class; Thad Brock, and Dan
Goodykoontz.

Appointments to Staff
of “Quips and Cranks”
Made by J. R. Covington

Revival of Old Humorous Section
Will Be Included

Appointments to the staff of the Davidson
annual, “Quips and Cranks,” for next year
have been made by Bob Covington, recently
elected editor-in-chief of the 1929 year-book.
Although most of the.4vork on this book
will have to be done next year, the staff
hopes to get as much as possible done this
spring.

For this purpose the editor has urged all
members of the rising Sophomore class who
wish to go out for annual work to give in
their names as soon as possible, so that they
may make assignments to be gotten up be
fore the end of. school.

No definite plans have been made yet as to
the actual make-up of the annual, but it is
hoped that a number of special features may
be worked in. Among these will be included
a revival of the old humorous section. To

‘take care of these plans a special feature
editorship has been created on the new staff.

The appointments made by the editor are
as follows:

Literary Editor—R. A. Dcaaees,
Athletic Editor—J. L. Ely.
Fraternities Editor—M. T. Gilmour.
Activities Editor—R. C. Grady.
‘Photographic Editor—G. H. Green.
Assistants—W. G. McGavock, L. A. Mills.
Art Editor—G. A. Fry.
Feature Editor—R. R. Kane.
Chief Typist—A. J. Cox.
Assistant Editors—Dave Anderson, C. M.
Pratt, W. B: saasaniiae C.. .. Dubose.

e

‘Jim Appleby, Sec’y

by Seniors of 28

The gift which the Rirerclns of '28 will give |
to the college will be entirely different from |
the gifts of former classes; for the gift this
year is in the form of scholarships. A reso- |
lution’ was adopted whereby each member
was assessed a certain amount for the pur-
pose of forming scholarships for needy and
deserving students. The awarding of these
scholarships will be in the hand of a com- |
mittee. composed of Dr. Sentelle, chairman, |
CoachesYotinger and Tilson,

The class of '28 hopes that th@ir example
will be followed by the classes to come. This
plan is very much like the plan adopted at
V. P. I. where the classes leave money for |
scholarships for athletes. These scholar-
ships are for students who need and eae
the aid instead of athletes. (

The Senior class hopes that this plan alt
werk out as they haye anticipated and be so
successful that other classes will see the
good from this plan and adopt it as their
class gift. This plan has worked at other
schools and the class sees no reason why it
will not do much good for the college in
the years to come. These scholarships will
make it possible for some capable young man
to come to Davidson who never could have
come ‘if it had“not been for this scholarship
established by the class of ’28.

There were many things thought of by
the class but they finally decided that schol-
arships would do the college more good than
any gifts such as benches, ticket booths, or
other things that would look pretty on the
campus.

“Y,”’ Not to Return

An announcement of especial interest to
every Davidson man was made recently,

when Jim Appleby, present secretary of the]:

Davidson Y. M. C. A., definitely announced
that he would not return to hold this position
next year. He has decided to enter Union
Theological Seminary, taking the regular
seminary work, and majoring especially in
Religious Education, which subject has been
of particular interest to him. During the
summer he will teach Bible and Religious
Education at Alabama State Normal.
During his time as secretary of the Da-
vidson “Y”, Jim has made many friends and
has in every way advanced the work of the
Y. M. C. A,, introducing many new and
helpful ideas. He has meant much to Da-
vidson and his going will be sincerely re-
gretted by a large number, who have had
the opportunity of meeting and working with
him. While in school here Jim was one of
the campus leaders in every phase of college
life, being on the “Y” cabinet,'a member of
amma Sigma Epsilon, serving a term as the
national president of this organization, a
member of Phi Beta Kappa and recently
further honored by being elected to Omicron
Delta Kappa. In all respects he was among
the leaders on the Hill and made himself
known.as a capable, high-minded Christian
gentleman. After graduating in the class of
'26 he was asked to return to the position he
has held fot the past two years, during which
time he has worked unceasingly, endeavoring
to improve and aid the Y. M. C. A,, until
the Davidson organization is now known as
one of the best in the South, due for a great
part to the unstinted efforts Jim has made
for its advancement. It is in this capacity
that his influence has been felt, for he has

de

Jieneti wenme casein Scholarships Given |

/Court of Control Instituted in Fall

GLEE CLUB CORECTION

The Davidsonian wishes to correct
a statement made in the last issue con-
cerning the date of the final public
appearance the Glee Club, The
club’s last performance of the year
will be held on May 8th, in Shearer
Hall, instead of on May Ist, as it was
stated. At this tint’ the entire Glee
Club, together with the symphony and
jazz orchestras, will appear in concert.

Eight Students Chosen

to Serve on Court of
Control for Next Year

Four Seniors, Two Juniors, and Two
Sophomores on New Council

LAKE IS JUDGE

of

of 1923

At a recent date selection of the new
members of the Court of Control was made.
The following are the names of those select
ed by the court: Raymond Lake, judge: Duil
Hub Knox, and Tom Hill, of the
rising Senior class; Heath Whittle and Jim
Hammett, of the rising Junior classgaand
Dean Rusk and Hub Covington,
Sophomore class,

The Court of Control, instituted during the
fall term of 1923, as a result of the abolish-
ment of hazing, has proved itself very satis-
factory in controlling and enforcing the reg-
ulations of.the Freshman class every year.

Regen,

of the rising

Dumas to be Head
of Forensic Council

——

In the election in the parlors of Watts
last Friday night for the mer to fill the va-
cancies on the Forensic Council for the com-
ing year, the following were elected to their
respective offices: Lawrence Dumas, pres-
ident;.W. K. Pritchett, vice-president ;. W.
EE. McGuire, secretary; C. R. Pritchett, sec-
retary; and R. M. Christian, treasurer.

The council for next year has two men;
less than the retiring number, the offices be-
ing reduced from seven to five. This was
the first time that council has been elected by
the debaters themselves.

The retiring council, consisting of
members, namely, H. T. Powell,,-president ;
Chalmers Davidson, vice-president ; Jeff Gar- |
rison, treasurer; Bob Grady, secretary inter- |
collegiate debating; Lawrence Dumas,
retary; Frank Hall, secretary society de-
hating; planned and carried out the most ex- |
tensive program that has ever been under-
taken at Davidson College,

seven

sec-

successful in points won and lost; the out-
come was very good considering the handi-
caps. There were only five debaters who had |
had a reasonable amount of experience, at the |
beginning of the last fall term; and there |
was practically no’ seasoned and experienced
material from which to draw. But even at

Raymond Lake, who is the newly elected
judge of the organization, is fully jqualified
to fill the position and to carry on the work |
of the court satisfactorily.

Following are the names of the members
of the retiring court which has completed a
very successful year of work: Piggy Wearn
judge; W. L. Lingle, Rod McRae, M. T.
Gilmour, R. FE. Kell, J. D. Hammett, and |
A. N, Halverstadt.

_and their ability, was not bad.

| year,

‘at the beginning of the fall term.

this, the schedule resulted in six wins and
five losses, which, considering the opponents

The new council consists of men who have
proved their ability in the last year or two,
and a successful program is expected next
Both Lawrence Dumas and W. K.
Pritchett were on the team last year, and
were two of the five who composed the team

New Frat Council
Takes Over Duties

Fraternity affairs on the campus have been
taken under the direction of the new Pan-
Hellenic Council, which entered into its
duties, last Friday, April 20th, The mem-
bers, who were recently selected by their
respective fraternities, were installed by the
old council. H. B. Arbuckle, president of
the retiring body, gave the reins to M. M.
King, the new president, who will head the
council during the coming year. J. F. Mc-
Crary was succeeded as secretary and treas-
urer by L: D. Kirkland.

The duties of the Pan-Hellenic Council
are to set the date for bid-day, to regulate
“rushing,” to act as intermediary between
the fraternities and the college authorities,
and .to take care of all fraternity activities.

The new council is as follows:

M. M. King, president—Kappa Alpha.

L. D. Kirkland, secretary-treasurer—Pi
Kappa Alpha. .

K. P. Mattox—Pi Kappa Phi.

J. §. Causey—Beta Theta Pi.

D. F. Cannon—Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

G. H. Green—Kappa Sigma. :

‘W. E. Phifer, Jr,—Theta Upsilon Omega.
'C. R. Lake—Phi Gamma Delta.

hs

(Continued on page 6).

- (Continued on page 8)

Professor Rene Hardre .

Speaks to French Club

,| much, : -

Davidson Netmen Star
In Tennis Tournament;
Interrupted By Rains

Captain Dick Carr and his netmen are
still very much in the running in the
North Carolina State College tournament,
which was held at Chapel Hill last week
and which was postponed because of bad
weather.

John T. Roddy, playing number one for
Davidson and runner-up in the single
tournament last year, reached the semi-
finals in singles before wet weather
forced the play to stop. In his previous

‘Tinatches John shows d mighty strong stuff,

and the team féefs very optimistic over
his coming through as singles champion,
The other are Helms, of
Wake Forest; Stuart Rogers, Duke;
Charlie Waddell, Carolina. Rogers and
Waddell have shown up best and will give

semi-finalists

| Roddy plenty of trouble.

one of
state,

Captain
players

In the doubles, Carr,
‘the best doubles the
partnered with Roddy, has reached the
semi-finals, Their next match will be
against Waddell and Williams, of Caro-
Hina. This semi-final match will feature

in

ithe doubles tournament since the two are
|admitted to be
Although the debating teams were not so |

the two best pair in the

play.
The
ished about the 26th of May.

tournament will probably be fin-
With prac-

tice going on all the time until then, it
lwill take championship tennis of high
caliber to come through such a= strong
field.

Changes Among Faculty
for Coming School Year
Are Less Than Formerly

Capt. N. G. Pritchett from Wodbury
Forest, Chosen as Athletic
Instructor

According to President Martin, there will
be very few changes in the faculty for the
coming year. These changes will be brought
about largely by the return of professors
who have been on leave for the past year and

| by the departure of those going on leave for

Rene |

1
North
Carolina College for Women at Greens-

April 23, Prof.
instructor at the

Monday night,

Hardre, French

boro, spoke to a group of Davidson: fac- |

|

ulty members and students in Shearer |
Hall on “The Memoirs of a Collegian of |

the Early Twentieth Century.” |

Charles Albright, president of Le Cercle |
Francaise under whose sponsorship Mr. |
Hardre was brought to Davidson, intro- |
duced the speaker.

M. Hardre, speaking in French, told of
his life as a schoolboy in France in a
very amusing and pleasing way. He
brought with him a number of brilliantly
colored pictures of his country,” scenes
from Brittany, Lorraine, and Monte Car-

lo, among other places. These postor pic-
tures were especially interesting to the
audience,

M. Hardre is a native of France and
has come only recently to America to take
over the chait in French at N. C. C: W.
It is probable that Davidson students will
have the opportunity of hearing him again
in the next few years as he expressed
himself as enjoying his visit here very

the following year.

Professor Beatty, who is now studying at
Columbia University for his Ph.D. in Latin,
is returning next year and will be assistant
both in the Latin and Engiish departments.

Prof. G. H. Davis will be back next year
to take Prof. P. M. Patterson’s place in the
Biology department. Professor Davis is
‘now at the University Chicago taking
| graduate work.

ot

Prof. A. V. Goldiere, who is now studying
jat Yale, will also be back and will teach in

| both the French and Spanish departments.

Capt. N. G. Pritchett comes to Davidson

| from Woodbury Forest, where he has served

as an instructor for several years, to take
charge of the Physical Training department.
Captain Pritchett, on account of his pre-
vious experience, is considered a man well
suited to meet the requirements of: this de-
partment, created at a recent meeting of the
board of trustees.

Professor Crow, of the Spanish depart-
ment, and Professor Schenck, of the Math
and Bible depattments, are both leaving for
the coming year. Professor Crow is sailing
next fall from)San Francisco on a Floating
University, tour. Professor Shenck is going.

to Yale to study for a year and’ will then re-.

