THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

=—

Victor. Record of “Oh Davidson”

Proposed as

Plans for the gift that that the class of ’28
will leave to the college are now being dis-
cussed. A committee has been appointed for
the consideration of suggestions. This com-
mittee is as follows: R. C. Platt, chairman;
H. B. Arbuckle, R. S. Link, J. S. McAlister,
and W. F. Stigler.

The present plan that is being considered
is to get the Victor Talking Machine Com-
pany to release a record of “Oh, Davidson!”
and “College Ties.” The committee is nego-
tiating with the Victor Company at this time
to find out if this will be possible, and if so,
the prices, the orchestras, etc. It is: stated
that if this record is made by the Victor
Company it will be due to the Senior class,
because the company has made it known that
it will not put out the record as its own un-
dertaking.

There was another suggested plan which
came before the class recently, but it was
voted down. Under this proposition the class
was to take out $1,000 worth of life insur-
ance for each member, the dividends to go to
the college. This would have amounted to
about $10,000 in ten years. The Southern
Life Insurance Company of Greensboro was
the firm that was to write this insurance.

A few of the gifts proposed by members
of the class are listed as follows: Lights for
the “D;” endowment fund for athletics;
roof or covering for the old columns; stage
settings for the new auditorium.

Large Audience Attends
Glee Club Performance

After Successful Rendition of Pro-
gram at Queens Reception is
Given Club

Playing before the largest audience they
had been given in recent years, the Davidson
Glee Club put on an excellent performance
at the Queens College auditorium in Char-
lotte, Wednesday evening, February 15th.
The listeners were very appreciative, and
much of that well-known “feminine charm”
was in evidence.

The entire program was well presented
and much applause was given the club. Es-
pecially well-received was the stringed instru-
ment trio, consisting of Proctor Thompson,
Gordon McSwain, and H. R. Mobley. This
trio made quite a hit with the Queens dam-
sels, and were encored several times.

Jack Ramseur, with his musical saw, also
went over big with the girls and was forced
to bring forth some of his “encore reserve.”

After the performance the members of the
club were entertained royally at a reception
given by the Queens girls. The reception
was given in the hall of the main building.

The program of the evening was as fol-
lows:

1. College Ties—Glee Club.

2. Raymond Overture; Minuet in G—.
Concert Orchestra.

3. The Bell-man; The
Club.

4. Baritone Solo—R, S. Lowrance.

5. Sunnyland Seranaders—C. J. Albright,

«director.

Brownies—Glee

Beginners’ Golf Outfits.

Senior Class Gift

Rifle Team, Leaves
Saturday for V.M.I.

Saturday of this week the rifle team will
meet the V. M. I. Cadets in a shoulder to
shoulder match. This match being the out-
Standing ‘one of the season, it. has been
looked forward to with great enthusiasm
and interest.

Five men have been selected to represent
Davidson against the Virginia Cadets. The
team has just completed a series of work-
outs, having studied in detail the many firing
positions, and the team is believed to be ready
for their established opponents.

For the past few weeks the team has been
firing against a good many schools through-
out the United States in order to be in the
very best condition for their cadet opponents.

Davidson has engaged in firing with the
following schools and colleges:

A. and M. College of Oklahoma.

Rhode Island State College.

Culver Military Academy.

A. and M. College of Mississippi.

Louisiana State College.

Due to the time necessary to compile the
scores, we are unable to give Davidson's
rating in these matches, but it is believed
without doubt, Davidson has an established
place in the front ranks.

Literary Groups
Choose Officials

On last Thursday, the 16th of February,
the two literary societies, the Eumenean
and the Philanthropic, held their regular
meetings in their respective halls.

The Philanthropic had a very interesting
program. Mr. Jackson, of the class of ’06,
made an interesting talk about the literary
society in the days when he was a student
here. The talk was in connection with the
plans of having faculty members on the pro-
grams of both of the societies. This plan
was started recently when the societies were
reorganized. After Mr. Jackson’s talk, an
Open Forum was held on the subject, “Re-
solved, That all men going out for varsity

erary societies.’ The next meeting will be
very important as the election of officers
will be held. There will be a “feed” after
the elections.

The Eumenean Literary Society had a very
important meeting last Thursday night. Of-
ficers for the remainder of the year were
elected. Some of the elections were very

6. The Blind Ploughman—Glee Club.

Interlude — Stringed instrument tria:
Thompson, McSwain, Mobley.

7. The Broken Melody; Bend Low Oh
Dusky Night—Glee Club.

8. Sunnyland Serenaders.

9. Wildcat Quartet — Grey,
Foster, Thompson.

10. Saw Novelty—J. H. Ramseur.
11. Mother’s Boy; Oh Davidson—Glee

Lowrance,

Club.

We offer a set of four Clubs and

Canvas Bag for $8 50. We restring Tennis Racquets.
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods dias

CHARLOTTE, N. C

S & W Cafeterias

are catering to you

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

(ATLANTA Soon)

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of
-water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds.

No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our

SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY.

a

The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE

[34

TRUST COMPANY

‘ INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

She RLOTTIR, Ny, Cc.

1 (13) Mgr. Brea a

a B. SPEIR, JR. (26)

debates must be members of one of the lit-

———

NEGRO QUARTET COMING
r. E. F. Shewmake, of the Fac-

ulty Lecture Committee, announces
that the quartet from Hampton Nor-
mal and Industrial School, Hampton,
Va., will appear in Shearer Hall on
the night of March 2nd, at 7:30. This:
program promises to-be one of inter-
est to students and townspeople as
well and those in charge who are ex-
pecting a large attendance. - This quar-
tet has sunk here in years past and
their selections of negro spirituals
have proved most popular although
the other numbers are always well re-
reived. There will be no charge for
this attraction, the committee an-

nounced.
Mamsmomoseorarerseocersearsearseeraeoeeeseee eae

close. The following men were chosen to
fill the offices for the rest of the year: Tyree
Dillard, president; W. H. Bailey, vice-pres-
ident; W. B. McGuire, secretary;. and Cald-
well Withers, critic. After the elections,
the members were entertained with a feed.
The regular meeting will be held next Cue
day. :

On Monday, Johnnie Melton and Bob Kell
represented D. C. at the state convention held
at Winston-Salem this year, and report a
very good series of meetings.

Seen ees

A very valuable book that is now available
for men on the campus is the “Testament for
Fishers of Men,” by Dr. Wade C. Smith.
This little book is without an equal iv he!p-
ing you approach a man in regard to choos-
ing his life work, and things of that sort.
If you intend to enter the field of religious
endeavor, get this volume without delav.
You need it.

noted speakers:

The annual state meeting of the North
Carolina Y. M. C. A. Associations was held
in Winston-Salem last Sunday and Monday,
February 19th and 20th, for the purpose of
dedicating the local Y. M. C. A. building,
which has been recently erected in that city.
Davidson was represented by Bob Kell and
John Melton. During this occasion the city
was hodnored by the presence of two very
Dr. John Brown, of New
' York, and Charles P. Taft, II, of Cincin-
nati.

The completion of this modern and fully

equipped structure marks a noted step in the

growth of the Twin City and adds distinctly
to the urban as well as to the convenience of
the inhabitants and visitors.

The program rendered. was as ello

Sunday, 3:15’ p. m.—Dedication of the
building. Speakers: Chas. P. Taft and Dr:
John Brown, 5:15 p. m—Meeting of com-
mittees,

Monday, 7:30 a. m.—Fellowship breakfast
for employed officers, in honor of P. M.
Colbert, of Atlanta, and Dr. John Brown,
of New York. 9:30 a. m.—Business session ;
Morgan B. Speir, chairman of state commit-
tee, presiding. Devotional period, Bishop
Rondthaler. 10:00 a. m—Organization. In-
troductions. Appointment of committees.
10:30 a. m.—State committee’s annual report,
presented by Mr. Speir. Business items and
announcements. 12:30 p. m.—Luncheon.
Meeting of committee on state committee’s
report. Meeting of student electoral district.
2:00 p. m.—Devotional period, Dr. Howard
E. Rondthaler. Address, P. M. Colbert,
general secretary, Y. M .C. A., Atlanta.

(Continued on page 7)

(Qt 0H
ag el
quel! Min

‘oom

i 7
mi AY

if”
‘ate

~

*

Annual North Carolina Y. M. C. A.
_ Meeting Held ¢ in Winston-Salem

Ww. and M. First on
Forensic Schedule

On Wednesday, February 29th, the David-
son debating season will be opened by a de-
bate with William and Mary College, on the
subject: “Resolved, That the United States
Cease to Protect Capital of its Citizens ‘in
Foreign. Lands.”

At this time Frank Hall and Carl Prit;
chett will take the affirmative for Davidson.

Hall will speak first, and, although this is
his first year on the team, he served as al-
ternate last year and therefore has had con-
siderable experience.

Pritchett will be the second speaker. While
only a Sophomore, he is promising to become
one of the best debaters on the team this
year. Last year he was on the Freshman de-
bating team.that defeated. Carolina.

Since the query is a topic of national dis-
cussion and interest, as has been indicated by
the daily newspapers and by Congress, the
debate is expected to be one of the best ‘on
this year’s schedule.

The debate will be held in the Queens Col-
lege auditorium in Charlotte at 8:00 p. m.,
This will be the second time that William
and Mary and Davidson have met in debate,
William and Mary having. been defeated by a

2 to 1 desis, last year.

“Miranda, wassat light shinin’
eyes?”
“Thas ma.stop light, Rastus.’—Georgia

in yo’

Cracker.

s
— <

SEEK YE NO FURTHER, DIOGENES ...

Tunis jobbie Diogenes was a Greek who left his fruit stand for the commend-
able purpose of questing for honesty by good old-fashioned lamp-light. And
now, loud and ever clearer, rings the cry from the housetops: “Diogenes —

throw away your lantern . . . here’s an honest cigarette! Have a Camel!”

Camels have but.one raison d’ étre—to pack the smoke-spots of the world
with the “fill-fullment” every experienced smoker seeks. Fill your own
smoke-spot with a cool cloud ‘of Camel smoke, and hear it sing out—
“Eureka!” (from the Greek, “Eureka,” meaning—“Oboy, here

*tis!”).

Ons R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winsten-Salem, N.C,
