THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

a —__-

ee —

:  S§$OC

IAL

Last Friday night the annual Junior Ora-
torical, Contest was held in Shearer Hall.
Immediately after the “speaking” all those
socially inclined who had the: customary
“wherewithall” retired to Concord to a
dance held there.

Qn Saturday afternoon, immediately after
the track meet held with the University of
South Carolina the Juniors entertained the
faculty, the entire student body, and the
week-end guests, at a reception held in the
gym. That night perhaps the most enjoyable
event of the week-end was held in Shearer
Hall; a minstrel presented by the Junior
class,

To cap the climax and bring thé Junior
Speaking to a fitting close, the Junior class
had charge of “Y” vespers and conducted a
beautiful open-air service in the true spirit
of Junior Speaking.

The house guests of the various fraternities
for the week-end are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi—Miss Polly Wells, Talla-
hassee, Fla.; Miss Sarah Glenn, Agnes
Scott; Misses Cynthio Vaugn and Tillie
Jones, Sweetbriar; Miss Elizabeth Parker,
Duke; Miss Margaret Withers, Columbia;
Misses Penelope and Ann Cannon, Concord;
Misses Winifred Pegram and Lon Fuller,
. Charlotte; Miss “Shorty” Reed, Converse,
and Miss Rosie Lee Wylie, N. C. C. W.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Polly Aiken,
Dibby Thomas, and Miss Katherine Bowers,
Converse; Miss Elizabeth Fraley, States-
ville; Miss Tommie Hollis, Greensboro;
Miss Ruth Owens, N. C. C. W., and Miss
Ann McLauren, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha—Miss Reba Jones, Converse ;

Miss Helen Rouney, : Charleston; Misses
Emma Cothran, Mary Bell and Virginia
Nutting, Charlotte; Misses Alice Withers
and Nancy Parish, Atlanta.

Kappa Sigma—Misses Esther Mitchell and
Elizabeth Stewart, Salem; Misses “Eunice
Glenn and Pot Herndon, Asheville; Miss
Christine McCrary, Lexington; Misses Ida
Belle Gilliland and Cereste Ellerbe, Win-
throp; Miss Verna McQueen, Little Reck,
S. C.; Misses Elizabeth Thompson and
Nancy Grey, Davidson; Miss Margaret
Smith, Charlotte; Misses Lewellyn Best,
Christine Thompson and Emma Holliday,
Converse; Miss Hazel Floyd, Coker; Miss
Tillie Jones, Sweetbriar; Miss Athleen

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Suppli
ps pplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

APL NGANG ONC NCL

NOC O/ Oi

TO)

=
Lo

¢

IANANT ONAN aN e\1/

Saeed
Whisnant, N. C, C. W.; Miss Betty Dunlap,

Rock Hill, S. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Misses Vaughn
Nixon and Myra Boynton, Atlanta; Miss
Frances Hall, Wilmington; Misses Craigie
Pegram and Sallie Schenck, Charlotte; Miss
Dorothy Hichman, Statesville; Miss Eliza-
beth Spencer, Waco, Texas; Miss Katherine
Via, Wadesboro.

Pi Kappa Phi—Miss Miriam Weeks, Hen-
dersonville; Misses Lotta Webb and Louisa
Farrow, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Lib Dar-
lind, Greensboro; Miss Beth Sloop, States-
ville; Miss Margaret Blue, Fayetteville;
Misses Grace McKinnon and Lena Carter,
Maxton, N. C.

Theta Upsion Omega—Misses Louise
Garibaldi, Julia and Evelyn Josephs, Ellen
Hawkins and Edith Cochran, Charlotte;
Miss Julia Wolf, Salisbury; Miss Ruth
Lowrance, Barium §prings.

Delta Theta Chi—Misses Mimms and
Martha Mimms, G?éer, S. C.; Misses Flor-
ence Mitchell and “Snoopee’” McDonald, N.
C. C. W.; Miss Elizabeth Hendon, Asheville.

Pyramid Club—Miss Louise Harriet, Sal-
isbury; Misses’ Jane Gilliam and Theodosia
Brock, Converse; Miss Frances Thompson,
Mt. Gilead; Miss Ann Mawbry, Limestone
College; Miss Charlotte Guy, Charlotte;
Miss Julia Lusk, Hamlet.

Speakers Selected.

for Co:omencement

Preliminary arrangements for Class
Day exercises, to be held as part of the
Commencement celebration here on Mon-
day, May 28th, were completed by. the
election student speakers who will par-
ticipate in the program,

By the vote of the class the following
men were selected as’ speakers_at the class
day celebration: D. W. Hancock, Blue-
field, W. Va., class orator; J. S. McAI-
ister, Greensboro, class day valedictorian;
V. J. Guthrie, Charlotte,\class day saluta-
torian; and J. P. McKnight, Shelby, class
poet.

All of these men are prominent in cam-
pus activities. Hancock is editor of
Quips and Cranks, Class historian, mem-
ber.. of Omicron Delta Kappa Alpha
social fraternity. McAlister is a mem-
ber of Phi Kappa and Kappa Alpha so-
cial. fraternity. McAlister is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa scholastic fraternity and
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.
Guthrie stands well in his class scholas-
tically and is a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity. McKnight, who ranks
high in his studies, was recently elected to
Phi Beta Kappa. He is also a member of
Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

These speakers were selected on the
basis of popular choice and are distinct
from the valedictorian, salutatorian, and
other speakers who are chosen on a basis

If You Want Your iad, Pin Back

Take Her a Bag o’
Lance’s Salted Peanuts

* Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

TON ANTON eV 10. 0\ aN aN aN 0\ TaN 070 aN /a\ i eV @\ifa\i/

of scholarship.

PTA THEE EIN JET THA SR IN SUE

NaN a ANION AN ON SON ON aN oe

eV it@\i anit e\itve\ ay e\iia\

Chariette, N.C.
banking needs.

‘Government.

The Commercial National ‘Bank

. Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
‘Make us your Executor.

Capital, mi poe Profits, etc., over $1, 300, 000. 00.
~ OFFICERS ‘pong da :

Founded 1874

7:

LW. STEWART. Cheb wad Tot Oe
Adi averse

Twelve Men Represent
Davidson at Scientific
Meeting at Chapel Hill

Professor Patterson of Biology
‘Department Give Ttalk

Twelve Davidson professors and students
of science recently attended the twenty-
seventh annual meeting of the North Caro-
lina Academy of Science-and the spring
meeting of the North Carolina section of
the American Chentical Society, held at
Chapel Hill, on April 27 and 29, 1928.

Prof. Paul M. Patterson, of the Biology
department, gave a lecture on “Our Com-

mon Mosses.” Professor Patterson’s lecture
was the only one given by any Davidson rep-
resentative.

G. S. Brooks and John McPhaul, of the
Senior class, were honored with an election
to membership in the Academy. To attain
this honor, a person must be actively inter-
ested in science or the promotion of science,
must be nominated by two members of the
Academy and be elected by a majority vote
of the executive committee.

Dr. W. L. Porter, of the Davidson Biology
department, ‘completed a successful term as
vice-president of the Academy. Dr. Porter
was elected to this office at the twenty-sixth
annual meeting, held at Davidson last year.
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, professor of chemistry,
was a member of the retiring executive com!
mittee of the Academy.

«

Those Davidson men present were: Dr.

Porter, Dr. Lyons, Professors Patterson and
Puckett, of the department of bidlogy; Pro-
fessors Mebane and Roseberry, of the
physics department; and J. W. Reid, G. S.
Brooks and John McPhaul, students espe-
cially interested in biology.

Officers of Delta
Club Newly Chosen

At the regular monthly meeting of the
Delta Club, April 25th, Bill Phifer, of Port
Jervis, N. Y., was elected président for the
coming year; A. L. DeCamp, of Booneton,
N. J., vice-president, and Alfred Jackson,
of Williamsport, Pa., secretary and treasurer.

The retiring officers are: C. H. Dubose,
of Pocomoke City, Md., president; Bill
Phifer, vice-president, and Bill Wolfe, of
Cincinnati, Ohio, secretary and treasurer.

The Delta Club is composed.of the mem-
bers of*the student body who reside in the
states north of Virginia, West Virginia,
Kentucky, and east of the Mississippi River.
The name is derived from the fact that a
Greek letter Delta may be made by connect-
ing all the towns, from which the charter
members come.

Phifer is a member of the Junior class
and a leader in campus activities. Besides
being one of the assistant basketball man-

| agers, he has been elected to the Pan Hel-

lenic Councit for next year. He is a mem-
ber of the Theta Upsilon Omega social fra-
ternity.

CURRIE’S DASHES

(Continued from page 2)

ner, Davidson, tied for second. Height—
6 feet. °

Shot Put — Leftwich, Davidson,’ first,
Wolfe, Sout ; Beall, South Caro-
lina. Distanc€é—4o feet 6 1-2 inches.

Discus—Lightsey, South Carolina, first;
Leftwich, Davidson; Carson, Davidson.
Distante—1o9 feet 3 3-4 inches,

Javelin—Griffin, South. Garolina;: first ;
‘Kennedy, South Carolina; Brown, David-
son, Distance—154 feet 7 inches.

H. B. Arbuckle, Professors O. J. Thies and |
Wooten, of the department of chemistry; Dr.

I

“Orders which were taken for base-
ball, football and track pictures have
__arrived_and they can now be had by
calling by 204 Watts. The last and
final ‘order for. pictures will -be sent
off Friday night, May 4th, and men
who desire pictures of the different
‘ teams should see Bob Platt before that
time. ’ * 5 :

- Bescee

‘Dr. Martin T:
Officers for Cor

Literary Societies
Conclude Elections

At its election of officers for the fall term
the Eumenean: Literary Society elected W.
L. Dumas, president; Murray Christian and
Andrew Bird were chosen to fill the posi-
tions of vice-president and secretary, respec-
tively. T. E. Hill was elected treasurer, and
J. R. Graham, reviewer.

A talk was made by John Q. Dickinson on
the manufacture of salt.

The Philanthropic Literary Society elect-
ed Frank Hall, president; John Knox, vice-
president, and Charles Kraemer, secretary.
R. C. Grady was chosen first critic and C.
H. Dubose, treasurer. T. H. Hall and E.
G. Epes were chosen supervisors.

¢ eane
Both the men chosen to lead the societies
next year have been outstanding in the field
of forensics during their college careers.

W. L. Dumas, the Eumenean president-
elect, is from Talladega, Ala. He is an
honor roll man and has been on the varsity
debating team. In the year 1927-28 he served
as treasurer of the Eumenean society. He
was recently elected president of the Foren-
sic Council.

Frank Hall, whom the Philanthropic So-
ciety chose to gu ide it.during the next term,
was secretary of literary society debating on
the Forensic Council for the past year. He
has been a varsity debater for two.years and

is an honor roll man.

Cornerstone to be

Laid for Chambers

According to Dr. W. J. Martin, president
of the college, the cornerstone of the new
Chambers building will be laid on Tuesday,
May 29th, that being the date set for com-
mencement exercises.

A new era in the history of the college
will be officially commenced, when the cor-
nerstone of one of the finest college build-
ings in the South is laid. It will be the offi-
cial starter for placing Davidson College on
the map as one of the finest and most com-
pletely equipped colleges for men in the
South,

Although the date and time for the cere-
mony has been set, the program, which Dr.
Martin said will be appropriate to the im-
portant occasion, has not as yet been worked
out and will not be for about a week ox ten
days.

Of course, whether or not the program
takes place on the date set for it or not de-
pends on whether the work on the building
has been carried to that point by the date
which has been set. Unfavorable weather
conditions, however, are the only hindrance
which is known at present that could possi-
bly keep the work from materializing to
that point by May 29th.

Ct “DE LUXE”

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.

GALL US = FOR Sear ORDERS.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

to Ministerial Group
ing Year Are Chosen _

“You have not dedicated your lives to
preach ethics, you have not dedicated your
lives to preach politics or current literature.
You have dedicated your lives to preach
Jesus Christ and Him crucified,” declared
Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college,
as he delivered a vital message to the Minis-
terial Band Sunday afternoon.

Dr. Martin’s talk to the ministerial timber
was concerned with salvation—salvation for
the past, present and future—with the min-
ister as God’s agent of salvation to man.

Following the talk of the afternoon, elec-
tion of officers for the coming year was in
order. E. P. Moye will lead the band as
president, F. D. Miller is to be vice-presi-
dent, while A. B. McClure will be secretary-
treasurer of the organization. The retiring
officers are P. P. Thrower, president; T. E.
Hill, vice-president, and A. M. Warren, sec-
retary-treasurer.

Arbuckle Attends
Annual Convention

The 1928 convention of the Scabbard and
Blade was held April 26th through April
28th, at Ohio State University, at Colum-
bus, Ohio. This was the sixteenth national
convention of the Scabbard and Blade.

Representatives from 70 companies were
present at the convention, Howard Arbuckle,
captain of company, being representative
of the Fifth Regiment, M Company, of the
First Regiment, was the entertaining com-
pany at the convention. Many interesting
speakers: were present at the convention,
among whom were Captain Skaates, of the
First Regiment; Major Mahin and Colonel
Bush.

For entertainment a smoker was held on
Thursday evening, April 26th, at Fort
Hayes.

Mr. and Mrs. John William Armstrong,
of Belmont, announce the engagement of
their daughter, Virginia, to Mr. James Bart-
lett Hall, ’25. The marriage is to be sol-
emnized in June. Mr. Hall, who is the son
of Rev. J. K. Hall, of Belmont, is now con-
nected with the First National Bank of that
city.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

ptinting of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
“Charlotte, N. C.

ICE CREAM

|

«

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock of

New Orthophonic Victrolas

Brunswick Pan atropes

Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday

AComplete Line of RCA.
} - Radios from n $69. 50 to $895.

Parker-G ardr

and

Also

ner Co.

ater es a. reds
