6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL’4, 19 28

Great Progress Shown in Military
Training Since First Established Here

That the study of war and wars, mili-
tary tactics and conduct, is an increas-
ingly popular subject as taught in Ameri-
can colleges and universities, is evidenced
by the speed with which coursés on mili-
tary matters, have sprung into the cur-
rucula of the nation’s educational insti-
tutions. The year 1918 saw the birth of
the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps,
which organization has a unit in three
hundred and twenty two of our colleges
today. e

Military tactics were not, however, first
introduced into Davidson College with
the advent of the R. O.’T. C. unit-here.
In the winter of 1854 a group of boys in-
terested along such lines petitioned and
received permission from the faculty to
have a company organized here for the
purpose of edification and the giving of
experience to those men who might in
time of war be called upon to defend the
land. This Company which was in no way
conected with the Government, was: not
much of a success, and lived for but two
years. ‘

Then came the time when the people in
Washington thought it a good thing to
encourage any instruction along military
lines. Accordingly Congress made it a
rule that all land grant institutions teach
one course in military tactics for which
the college was to be remunerated.

Lieutenant-Colonel Mueller was | the
first P. M. S. and T. to be posted at Da-
vidson, which was after the war and the
new R. O. T. C. had replaced the Student
Auxiliary Training Corps, which was the
first of the government-controlled details
for teaching tactics in colleges and uni-
versities, Captain P. G. Hearn was the
next officer in command of the Davidson
unit, and Captain Weems who was in
command last: year, and is now at Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas, was the last.

Captain Dougherty, the present very
able Commandant, will be succeeded by
Captain William R. Scott who is to be
here next fall at the opening of the ses-
sion,

During the past four years, between one
hundred and one hundred and fifty men
taking that advanced course in R. O, T. C.,
have graduated here, no one of whom
have gone into the Army.

Disqualified

“Would you accept a job as a prohibi-
tion agent?”

“No,” answered Uncle Bill Bottletop.
“I have become a teetotaler myself, so I
couldn’t honestly promise to be of service
in gettin’ evidence against anybody.” —
Washington Star.

Local Officers Have
Varied Experiences

Captain John W. Elkin first came to
Davidson in the fall of 1926 from Fort
Benning, where he had just completed a
course in military training. Captain El-
kins is a native of South Carolina, where
he attended Wofford College. He served
in the Navy during 1996-10, leaving this
branch in 1910, he married. Re-entering
the service in 1917 he joined the infantry,
this time he was sent to France with the

in about seven engagements, among them
being the St. Mihiel offensive and the
Meuse-Argonne struggles.

He was stationed at Fort Benning in
1921, and from there came here.

Captain John A. Otto, is a Texan, and a
graduate’ of Texas A. & M. College. Cap-
tain Otto entered the service in 1917 with
a commission of second lieutenant, later
he was promoted to first lieutenant. Since
coming to Davidson he has received his
commission as captain. Like Lieutenant
Beckett he served on the Mexican border
during 1917. J 1924 he was sent to Porto
Rico, where’ he remained for two years.

After leaving Porto Rico Captain Otto
took a course in the Company Officers’
Course, and finished it in 1927, and then
came to Davidson this fall. Since here he
has been in charge of the instruction of
the Advanced Course men.

Lieutenant Robert C, Beckett was born
in New Mexico, where he went to New
Mexico Military Institute. After leaving
there he went to the Mexicarfborder and
was engaged in patrol work during that
time. In 1918 Lieutenant Beckett received
his commission from the regular army.
In 1922 he was ordered to the Phillipines
where he remained until he came to Da-
vidson in 1924, since then he has beer! in
charge of the majority of the freshmen
classes.

The First Shall be Last
Miss Gusher—“I think your new novel
has a beautiful ending, Mr. Scribbler.”
Scribbler—“How do you like the open-
ing chapters?”
Miss Gusher—“Oh, I haven’t come to
those yet.”—Boston Transcript.

What Dad Knows
“Sir, I have proposed to your daughter.”
“Well?”
“And she refers me to you.”
“Then your case is hopeless.”—Louisville
Courier-Journal,

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs.

Government.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMBY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Aceletant Cashier

ae

Founded 1874

I, W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Odicer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier?
M. T. WILLIAMS, Aseistant Cashier

The

ORTHOPHON
VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

213 N. Tryoh St

New oS

IIc

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World ©

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock--Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS _.

EVERY FRIDAY

_ MUSIC STORE

aw b.

A. E, F. While in France he participated,

Major William R. Scott
to be New Head of War
Department at Davidson

Transferred from Fort Leavenworth
to Local Post

SUCCEEDS CAPT. DAUGHERTY

Graduate of West Point Takes
Charge of Work of Battalion
Next September

Maj. William R. Scott has been trans-
ferred by the War Department from Fort
Leavenworth to Davidson where he will
succeed Capt. R. D. Daugherity as pro-
fessor of military science and tactics be-
ginning next September.

Major Scott has just completed a course
in the-.Staff/'and Command School for
Officers at the Kansas school and will ar-
rive iri Davidson the latter part of August
to take over his duties as head of the
local stkff of army officers with the open-
ing of the next college year.

The new commandant is a graduate of
the United States Military Academy at
West Point, having completed his train-
ing there in 1904. From the rank of lieu-
tenant, Major Scott advanced steadily,
gaining the commission of a lieutenant-
colonel before the end of the war period
but reverted to major with the general
shifting of officers’ ratings.

Major Scott is a native of Indianapolis,
Ind., having been born there in 1881. His
family consists of a wife and three chil-
dren who will accompany him here this
fall.

lations Club and belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha

CADETS ACT AS HOSTS

(Continued from page 1)

Cadet Capt. P. J. Garrison is first ser-
geant of this company, a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, captain of the wrestling team,
fills a position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet
and has been active in all lines of college ac-
tivity.

Cadet Captain Julian Lake holds positions
on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and Board of
Control. He made an eviable record’ at Camp
Perry the past summer and the instruction of
the rifle team is entrusted to him. Lake be-
longs to the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Cadet Capt. M. C. O’Neal in addition to
having won his letter in track has been hon-
ored by Omicron Delta Kappa and Alpha Phi
Epsilon. On the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet he has
an important place and heis a member of the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

Cadet Captain and Adjutant J. M. Akers |
was recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He |
holds membership in the International Re-

social fraternity.

Cadet Capt. R. S, Link is manager of
baseball and is conspicuous in other activi-
ties. He is a member of Delta Theta Chi.

Cadet First Lieut. J. M. Gudger has fired
on the rifle team for four years and this year
it was captained by him.

Cadet First Lieut. R. S. Lowrance be-
longs to the Glee Club, the Orchestra, the
Biology Club, and the Music Fraternity, of
which he is secretary.

Cadet First Lieut. P. W. Walton has
been outstanding on the campus in many
ways.

The National Convention of Scabbard and
Blade will be held at Columbus, Ohio, on
April 26th, 27th and 28th. More than 70
companies will be represented and Ohio
State University will be host to the con-
vention. Howard B. Arbuckle has been

selected to represent B Company, Sth Regi-
ment, with Charles C. Trabue as alternate.

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is
primarily to raise the standard of military
drill in American colleges and universities ;
to unite in closer relationship their military
departments ; to encourage and foster the es-
sential qualities of good and efficient offi-
cers, and to promote intimacy and good fel-
lowship among the cadet officers,

Further, the society tends to disseminate
military education among the students and
among the people of the country in general.
With the growth in size and influence of this
society, and the old proverbial hatred of mili-
tary drill—the regarding it as a necessary
evil—is dying away, and the students of uni-
versities are beginning to realize that the
military service should be performed wil-
lingly, cheerfully and wholeheartedly.
Since 1915 the War Department has dele-
gated one of the United States Army to at-
tend the National Convention and to make
an official report of the proceedings to the
War Department. It is expected that this
plan will continue, and that through the co-
operation of the War Department and Scab-
bard and Blade the efficiency of the military
departments in colleges and universities will
be appreciably increased.

Same Thing
Jennie — “Dick didn’t blow out his
brains when you rejected him. He came
around and proposed to me.
Jeannette—“Then he must have gotten
rid of them some other way.”’—London
Tit-Bits.

She Know by Experience
First acress—“Yes, when I came out
the audience simply sat there open-
mouthed.”
Second actress—“Oh, nonsense. They
never yawn all at once.”—Ohio State Sun
Dial.

L

A Finer baer CYt

At Easter one’s finest thoughts are aroused
~apathy is challenged~a desire to express one’s
finer self is awakened into glorious activity.

How better can you, with your natural and
inherent love for fine things, convey your
nobler sentiments to friends and loved onet
than with “Unusual Candies?”

Sold by

America's finer drug stores

a

welt OS ae AUGUSTA. SA. .
WHITE DRUG CO. —

&
