THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

——

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Sixteen. Classes Plan

|

Friends of J. K. Morrison, ’16, now lo-
cated at Montclair, N. J., will be grieved to
learn of the death of his brother, William
Morrison, manager of the J. K. Morrison
Wholesale Grocery Co., at his home in
Statesville, on April 26th, following an ill-
ness of several weeks.

M. W. Trawick, graduate of Davidson in
the class of ’25, and two present Davidson
students, G. S. Brooks and A. H. McPhaul,
were recently elected to membership in the
North Carolina Academy of Science, at its
meeting in Chapel Hill. Sixty-one new
members were elected at that time.

Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church at Concord, N. C.,
preached the baccalaureate sermon before the
graduating class of the Cornelius High
School last Sunday evening. On the same
date Dr: C. M. Richards, '92, head of the
Biblical department at the College, preached
the baccalaureate sermon before the Hunt-
ersville High School. Other Davidson alumni
who have addressed the graduating classes of
North. Carolina high schools include Dr. C.
K. Brown, ’21, J. M. Appleby, ’26, and Harl-
lee Branch, Jr., ’27.

Announcement has just been received at
the College of the birth, on April 25th, of
little Dorothy Patricia, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Kenneth Harris, of Charlotte. Mr.
Harris was a member of the class of '27.

Among the alumni present last Saturday
for the Davidson-University of South Caro-
lina track meet and Junior Speaking festivi-
ties were: W. O. Green, Wade Leggette,
W. M. Treverton, John C. Fowler and R. L.
Mitchell, all of the class of '27; Kenneth
Lewis and W. A: McAulay, of the class of
°25; Dave Fleming, of the class of '29; John
I. Smith, of the class of '24; John R.
Schenck, of the class of '22; Wick Black, of
the class of ’26; R. T. Littlejohn and O. J.
Allison, of the class of ’25; and Warren
Smith, of the class of ’28.

J. M. McFadden, ’22, who is teaching and
coaching at the ,University of South Caro-
lina, accompanied the Gamecock cinderpath
team on its recent trip to Davidson.

Harllee Bordeux and Claude Allen, both
of the class of ’27, were recent visitors to
the campus.

Col. Walter Joel Rawlinson, widely known
and esteemed citizen, Confederate veteran,
and one of the oldest citizens of Rock Hill,
S. C., died on April 24th, at his home ’in the
South Carolina city. Two of his sons, Wal-
ter Barnes and T. Caldwell, are alumni of
Davidson College in the classes of 12 and
’01, respectively.

Rev. B. B. Shankle, ’11, pastor of the Lee
Park Presbyterian Church, at Monroe, has
accepted a call to the Beatty Memorial
Church, of Lenoir, and will leave Monroe at
once for -his néw pastorate.

Rev.:A. A. McLean, '06, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church at Lenoir, N. C.,
was recently ‘elected president of the board
of trustees of the Lees-McRae Institute, of
which Edgar Tufts, ’22, is superintendent,
and a number of other Davidson alumni are
trustees.

Cecil Dew, ’22, has been confined to. his
bed at the Cragmont Sanitorium since Jan-

uary 24th, and will probably remain there for |:

several weeks/more until he has fully recov-
ered from a recent nervous breakdown.
Friends and classmates will be grieved to
learn of his illness. 74

C. W. Angle, 18, president of the North

Carolina Associated General Contractors,
was one of the two principal speakers at the.
monthly meeting of the Charlotte Builders’
Association, at the Manufacturers’ Club.

¥L B. Elliott, 18, is a patient of the Low-
rance’ Hospital, at Mooresville, recovering
from a recent operation. _

, member of the younger social set at Annis-

Joe Bowers, ex-’29, who has been at the|
New York office of the American Tobacco a a ch i
Company for the past two years, sailed last Largest Number of Alumni in His-
Monday from New York for the Barbadoes, | tory of College Expected

West Indies, where he will take charge of | : to Attend

the company’s interests in that place for the _ Sixteen classes are planning to have spe-
next six months. Mr. Bowers was a recent ‘a! reunions at the approaching commence-
visitor to North Carolina and to the College, Ment of Davidson College, and the: alumni
| Office is now in the midst of preparations for |

‘their entertainment while on the campus.

Dr. Porter Vinson, ’Q9, member of the Numerous ingiries are coming to the office,

permanent staff at Mayo’s Clinic, Rochester, and officials have been gratified over the |

Minn., was a recent visitor to the College!

and to his sister, Miss Maude Vinson, a resi- |
dent of the village.

Commencement Reunion

outlook for the largest group of alumni ever |
to attend a Davidson commencement.
According to the new schedule of class |
oo reunions, three groups will return—1884, |
Dr. W. Y. Sayad, 17, now practicing at 1885, 1886 and 1887 ; 1903, 1904, 1905 and |
Miami, Fla., was recently initiated into hon-| 1906, and 1922, 1923, 1924 and 1925, The |
orary membership in, the Omicron: Delta 1878 men will have their fiftieth reunion, and
Kappa fraternity, and spent two days at the the class of 1927 will return for its first |
College as a visitor. | gathering. Besides these, the 1873 men de- |
| sire to have their fifty-fifth reunion, and the |
Announcement has just been received at Class of 1893, which would have returned |
the College of ‘the marriage of Edward A.! under the old every five-year plan, are going |
O’Neal, '25, to Miss Mildred Pruett, daugh- ahead and will have a reunion—their thirty- |
ter of Mr. and Mrs, Bennett W. Pruett, at fifth. :
the home of the bride, in Anniston, Ala., on| Three major group banquets are being
Saturday, April 25th. Mrs. O’Neal is a planned, and banquets for the other classes
graduate of Converse College and a popular will probably be arranged. Monday night
was first suggested for these affairs, but so
many of the alumni are business men that
they cannot afford to spend four days at
Davidson, and for that reason it is practi-
cally settled that these will be on Tuesday

ton. Her father is president of the Annis-
ton National Bank. Mr. O'Neal, a graduate
of Davidson, is now prominently connected
with the Federal Phosphorus Company, with

One of the dormitories will be reserved

for the alumni, who will be arranged in its
according to classes—the 1884-1887 men on
the first floor, the 1903-1906 on the second,
and the 1922-25 and 1927 alumni on the third.
The usual essentials will be in each room,
and the alumni office will again see that the
visitors are comfortable during their visit
to the campus.

Among the older alumni who have-already
said they will return are Rev. G. L. Petrie,
D.D., ’59; Dr. J. J. Stringfellow, '60; Rev.
E. P. Davis, D.D., ’73; Rev. R. P. Smith,
D.D., '73; George Bryan, ’78; Dr. D. C. Me-
bane, '78; Rev. G. L. Robertson, D.D., 78;
Dr. J. A. Hodges, ’78: Special invitations
are being extended every alumnus before
1878 to return to the commencement.

CREDBNZA, $300.00

headquarters in Anniston. night before the literary societies meet.

The New
ORTHOPHONIC
VICTROLA

All Models .in Stock---Easy Terms

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

NEW RECORDS_

EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C.

Blindfolded

.. in scientific test of

leading Cigarettes, Mrs. Reginald C. Vanderbilt

selects OLD (SOLD

“I wonder if one can really tell the difference, when
blindfolded,’ was my first thought when invited to make

Mas. Recinatp C. Vanpaasitt

i

SMOOTHER AND BETTER — N

this test.

“After smoking the four brands, as they were handed to
me one after another, I discovered there was one that was
noticeably smoother than the others and richer in taste.

“This proved to be an O_p Gouin. I hope I shall be able
to buy them in Paris... they afe surprisingly free from
any trace of throat irritation and have a delightful aroma

which to me is very important.”
ite

How
Test Was Made

Mrs. Vanderbilt was blind-
folded, and, in the pres-
ence of two responsible
witnesses, was given one
each of the four leading
cigarettes to smoke... To
clear the taste, coffee was
served before each ciga-
' rette. . . Mrs. Vanderbilt
was unaware of the iden-
tity of these cigarettes
during test ... After smok-
ing the four cigarettes,
Mrs. Vanderbilt was asked
to designate by number
her choicé . . . She imme-
diately replied: “‘Number
3°’...which wasOLDGOLD.

OT A COUGH IN

WO Vaud diur

Why can you pick them in the dark?
«+e Because they're made from the
*- heart-leaves of the tobecco plant

A CARLOAD

