The Davidsonian

AWN UGBROWIN Gunucsddecckclaskwusieccdcdcae Managing Editor

WB APREPCHUUT ode. acc eccucusescstucs Managing Editor

J. B. MORIA Managing Editor

C. R. LAKE .__.....2.. 1.1... _._-...-----Athletic Editor

BivASAWLMNO Noses ccccts cu aee cok, Sol cashed Feature Editor -

W. L. LINGLE ~ ‘3 -As itor

F. C. WITHERS ..-.......... A fate Editor
Baas es Wy INES MEE Cs hose uccccucssbcacscied A i Editor

L. C. WADSWORTH ..._-.-2 2-2 -2----- ee. Alumni Editor

R. C. Waratues --------Exchange Editor

‘ BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY...._._____. Assistant Business Manager

8. J. ALLISON. Assistant Busi Manager

W. M. POWELL............_- Assistant Business Manager

P. {iy CARRISON........----.----------Subscription Manager

B. W. DICKSON Circulation. Manager

S. W. MORRIS Solicitor

W. _B. McGUIRE. Solicitor

E. H. McCALL bes Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

W._H.:-BAILEY.. President

Pe Ped 3) Op 2 a ae ag ne -Vice- President

SPU RCA AM: Loo S20 Soe ches cae Secretary-Treasurer

, P. ANDERSON . P. McBRYDE

S. R. KER . W. McDERMID

A, T, EDELMAN W. _B. fYUEEN

ALLAN FRE F. D LLER

P. B. V. A. MILTON

E. 8S. HEEFNER R. T. NUNAN

R. F. JARRATT Dz T. thy

R. W. KIRKPATRICK, W. R. WEAVER

: Z. V. LONG

to

4

‘

'

——

——

THE mt APRIL 4, 1928
: ——

= ————

Member of Nerth Carelina Collegiate Press
: Association
Member of Southern te P.
° Collegia ress

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire en the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Pe Mail Matter of
Entered at the ee Sr Al > egal My

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Article: -
ceived from an unknown source will not be publis ied.

jcagab coducbalbosnueacben ance Editor-in-Chief
Busi Manager

eo MARTIN

EDITORIAL

“THE INSPECTION TODAY

Today the Davidson military unit will be
inspected by officers designated for that
purpose by the War Department. These
officers will examine carefully every detail
connected with the battalion here. The
equipment as well as the personnel, of the
entire unit will be -subjected’ to a close
scrutiny by these competent officials.

Such ‘an inspection means much to the
officers in charge of the military department
here, but it will mean quite as much to the
students and to the college. For the last two
years Davidson has been awarded a. Dis-
tinguished Rating by the inspecting officers,
and it is hoped by all concerned that such
an honor will again be achieved this year.
This rating scale has placed Davidson in the
list of such schools as V. M.'I., The Citadel,
Auburn, Georgia Tech and other institutions
which emphasize the military department
much more than it is emphasized here. i

According to all reports competition will
be much keener this year than it has been in
former years. The officers have already
been to Auburn, Tennessee, and several
other schools before coming here and re-
ports have it that the units of these schools
have shown: much improvement over last
year. This means that unless the Davidson
battalion shows a proportional improvement.
the unit will not receive the ‘distinction
which has been bestowed:on it for the last
two years.

At a time like this it would not be the
best of taste to enter into discussion as to
the relative benefits and evils of the training
corps in the various institutions over the
country. Several institutions have expressed
dissatisfaction with their military depart-
ments, and there has been much more dis-
cussion this year than ever before concern-
ing compulsory military training. This
neither proves anything nor does it disprove
anything. With such varying situations as
exist over the country, one cannot draw any

logical conclusions from a single incident.

An article could be written which would

‘nominally prove the case either affirmatively

or negatively—according to the specific in-
stitution chosen as an example to prove the
case.

_ There has been however, no direct criti-
cism of the unit here at Davidson. Naturally
there have been some minor complaints
from those who complain about everything,
but- these as usual have amounted to very
little. Since no vote has been taken, and

since no consensus of opinion has been.

secured from the student body, we hesitate
y what is the true feeling of the stu-
4n the matter. The increasitig num-
students taking the advanced course

inior and senior years is the only
could be taken to prove the

few

The

will be judged by the men who will see
seventeen different units of this corps area
on their best behavior. It is the duty of
each member of the battalion to contribute
all that he can to the success of this in-
spection.

TAP DAY

Some time within the next few days the
Davidson circle of Omicron Delta mebpe
will hold its annual spring Tap Day. The
leaders of the rising senior class and the men
in that class deemed worthy of such an
honor by Delta circle will be extended a bid
to membership by the fraternity. A smaller
number of men will be selected from the
present senior class. This will be the final
election fro mthe class of 1928 and the men
chosen this time together with the men
chosen at the two previous elections will
constitute the total membership of O. D. K.
from ‘the class graduating this June. Nat-
urally in some few points the opinion of ten
or twelve men is apt to vary from the
opinion of the student body, this wili per-
haps give rise to some criticism of the local
circle.» But the number must be limited
somewhere and it is difficult to discriminate
between some men.

The two groups of men who will be tap-
ped represent the two phases of Omicron
Delta Kappa. The rising seniors represent
the actual service which the various circles
render their respective institutions. These
men will be active throughout the whole of
next year and it will be their duty to delve
into various problems of the campus and en-
deavor to improve conditions here in what-
ever way they see fit. The. services rend-
ered vary with the men elected throughout
the years. And since service is one of the
fundamental basis of the fraternity, it is
well to bring this forcefully before the men
who will soon be initiated.

The seniors elected represent another
phase of Omicron Delta Kappa—that of
honor to whom honor is due. The present
seniors will be unable to give much of their
time or of their labors to the circle and to
the college after they are initiated. They
will probably not receive as much benefit
from the fraternity as have those who know
its real purpose and aim, and have worked
with it for twelve months. But these men
will be honored for their conspicuous at-
tainments and services in their extra-curric-
ula activities. It is rather unfortunate that
all the men of the senior class who are
elected to O, D. K. could not be elected at
one time and be able to give as much of
their time as possible to furthering the aims
of the organization. This is impossible how-
ever, but if it could be worked the services
of twelve or fifteen men working through-
out all of their senior year would indeed be
notable.

The members of O. D. K. during the pres-
ent year have accomplished nothing out-
standing, nor have they abolished any evils
in the student body. They do not claim to
have done anything like this, although it has
been their goal throughout the year to con-
tribute something of real value to their alma
mater through their services to her. The
best interests of the college and the student '
body as a whole have always been before
them and whether they have succeeded or
not remains to be judged by others. It
would not be boasting we believe, to say that
the members have attempted to accomplish
several things. In some of these they have
met with limited success while in ‘others
they have failed completely. It is not this
point which should be emphasized however.

The men who do receive this honor are
to be congratulated. They have received an
honor which is due them. “But in remember-
ing this honor, they should also remember
the debt they owe to their institution and to
the fraternity, and strive always to attempt
to repay this debt in some small way.

MORE ELECTIONS

With political arguments, both local and
national, occupying the center of all at-
tention, it is quite natural that Davidson
should divert its interest to the national
side as soon as the local fights are over. In
view of the fact The Davidsonian wittton-
duct a straw vote some time within the
next few weeks in an attempt to discover
Davidson’s choice for President of the
United States. We have no warped ideas
as to the national influences of the results of
such an action, nor. do we believe that all
other candidates will withdraw from the
race as soon as the candidate is chosen here.
The balloting will serve however, to prove
whether or not Davidson men know who is
running and the relative merits of such a
candidate. ;

This election will also aid in the tabulating
of votes from all the North Carolina schools,
since the other Tar Heel institutions are
conducting a similar campaign; The Inde-
pendent, of Baston, is attempting to secure a

| consensus of opinion from all the colleges in
the United States, but the vote

at Davidson s

Oy

iri ew ee ame a IIS i a

7

sidiads, sf Het Rvs Poca Shea

will not be cofinected with this campaign in
any way. :

‘Even thors the result of the ballot will
prove nothing, it is hoped that the men ea
will co-operate in the proper spirit. It wi
aid no one to vote for fictitious personages
or to vote without serious consideration of
the candidates, but it will be a great help if
the entire student body will enter into the
campaign in the proper spirit. The David-
sonian is not sponsoring the forming of any
parties nor does it approve of any speeches
for or against the various candidates. Since
it would be impossible to hear any of the
candidates personally and direct the choice
through this medium, it was thought best
to allow every student to form. his own
opinion from his own personal knowledge of
the merits of the various candidates. ;

The ballots will be taken to every man's
room and he will be asked to vote then, The
time for balloting will be announced in
chapel and it is hoped that every man will
try to be in his room at that time. or leave
his proxy with his room-mate. The ballot
will be of little’ value if only a small percen-
tage of the student body votes. But if
everyone will take an interest in it, and vote
seriously when they are given the opportu-
nity, a truthful idea of the candidate the
students prefer will be the result.

An attempt will also be made to secure the
votes of the faculty members to see their
choice of candidates. The comparison of
the two votes taken will be interesting.

At present, Hoover is leading as the choice
of the college students in various parts of
the country. A few votes have already been
taken and Hoover leads as a result. of the
tabulation of these votes. Cornell is the
latest to endorse the Secretary, Stanford be-
ing the first since he is an alumnus of that
institution, Whether or not Davidson is
thinking along the same lines as these other
colleges will be proved when the votes are
counted.

APRIL THE SIXTH

Living in an apparent state of peace and
quietude, it is difficult to realize that only
eleven years ago’ the United States declared
war on the Imperial German and Austrian
governments. From a neutral position, the
riches nation in the world was forced into
active warfare, For a year and a half this
country contributed gold and men in an ef-
fort to overcome the nation threatening the
world. Péace was declared and the world
was adjudged safe for democracy.

A few years later, the nation considered
by some to have been the deciding factor in
the victory is looked upon almost with con-
tempt by the nations to whom the richest
nation had lent money. For the rich nation
has committed a deplorable dus pas in at-
tempting to collect this money. Nominally
a loan, the creditor nations now consider it
a gift.

The nation that fought so gloriously’ to
make the world safe for democracy is now
landing troops in a small and insignificant
country in an attempt to “protect its in-
terests” there. Two other small nations in
the same general section are under control
of the troops of this great nation, Last year
at this time, this nation, along with other
powerful nations was landing troops in a
much larger country to protect the business
enterprises which had practically stripped
the large country of its natural resources.
But the world had to be made safe for
democracy. ia

It was our conception for some time that
pacifists were the weak-kneed, timid, breth-
ren who were afraid they would be drafted
if war was declared. Possibly there are
some of this type in that great group of
people who oppose war. But by far the
majority of these people are those who
realize the sordidness and bleakness of war
stripped of all its glamour. It was our con-
ception that all the great nations were noble
and wonderful, they never fought unless
they were attacked and needed to preserve
the sanctity of their nation and home. A
little study of the’causes of wars in the last
century has opened this field before us. The
“protect our interests” theme has been given
as the main reason for war during the past
century, but this theme translated in com-
mon language means that the nation is
greedy for more wealth, more land, and
more power.

But the wail of a few will not be heard by
the ears of those who are anxious for ag-
grandisement. The powers that be will hide
behind the hackneyed excuse and continue
to do as they please. And many will con-

tinue to follow in their footsteps, believing:

they are following a worthy and noble
cause. Perhaps it may be worthy, perhaps
it may be noble,—there will always be many
who will convince themselves that it is just
that, but there are others who are already
convinced that such is not the case.

’ This brings us to the point of questioning

_the veracity and validity of those who up-

hold the preparedness program. And this is

‘a point which we are jnable to discuss or

Out of Bounds

LE GRANDE FINALE

Today I bang out this column on a well worn
typewriter for the last time, a fact that will prob-
ably produce great elation in some. Tomorrow
“Ollapodrida,” “Out of Bounds,” and all of their
siter efforts will be relegated to the limbo of the
forgotten. Save for the fact that the event is the
forerunner of my departure from Davidson, I
would welcome it. Graduation being almost at
hand, however, I find myself the victim of con-
flicting emotions. Certainly the tour years have
been and probably will remain the happiest of
my life. Freshmen may look upon that state-

ment as a lot of hooey, and Sophomores will prob-
ably side with them for once. Juniors might admit
that it’s true. Nevertheless now that the end is

approaching I cafr-think of few occupations that
would be more blissful, Utopian and useless than
to remain here the rest of my days. Not that
four years of it have been useless. Simply that
any extension of the time would be superfluous.
Having lazy tendencies by nature I am inclined to
weep. At the same time having hopes for the fu-
ture I’m urged by the pleasure of the occasion ‘to
laugh. The resultant combination is a dreamy
melancholy. The taste isn’t bad but neither is it
quite good.

Looking back over the four years I’m cn
just what I have gotten out of college and also '

what I have contributed to it, if any. Unfortu-
nately I came here from prep school with a good
record behind me. In keeping with all of the laws
of human nature I tried to sell myself to the
school on that basis. The effort lasted for one
month and I’ve consumed most of the four years
trying to live it down. During that first month I
possessed myself of the idea that one must simply
plant himself in one of the dormitories, attend
classes and at the end of the allotted four years
find himself the finished product, ready to put the
world on a paying basis. Naturally enough I
didn’t admit that such was my idea but looking
back over the interim with a broader perspective,
the facts in the case are evident. »And then for-
tunately a senior of that year managed by two
hours of rapid fire oratory to impress the fact
upon me that I wasn’t such a great man after all.

To this day he probably believes the effort was
wasted for I am sure that I didn’t fora moment

let him know that he had even dented my con-
ceit. I wonder how many other seniors have ever

made a similar attempt to bring freshmen into
line? To all outward appearances the results will
be exceedingly disheartening. Still was there ever
a man born who was willing to admit his de-

ficiencies to other than himself? If he does ad-
mit them, beware. The chances are fifty to one

that he is. fishing for compliments. ee \

If you were to ask me just what a single day’s +
work in
together with all of the others answer nothing.
There is the book learning of course but there is

little in that which the average man _ will not
learn sooner or later in the common walks of life

regardless of the degree hung onto his name. The
reward is an almost indefinable something that
the graduate feels but cannot place. Perhaps it
is simply a bolster to what he knews to be his
talents. Every graduate doesn’t have the feeling
either. It comes through the gradual develop-
ment of the reasoning powers and the develop-
ment of an unconceited self-sufficiency. The
most prominent students may never have it while
a nobody will assert his possession of it through
can,

success in after years. Now figure that out if you

=

about which we are unable to express our
opinions. Perhaps we would be called biased
and bigoted were we to give vent to our
thoughts. We find refuge in the trite plat-
itude—de gustibus non est .disputandum.

VALE
It seems to be our habit to spread our
adieus over a space of’several weeks. We
merely wanted to thank all the supporters

. and subscribers of this journal for their

sympathy, their co-operation, and their ad-
vice during the past year: The loyal work-
ers who have attended to the minor details
of the paper are also in line for much grat-
itude. Had it not been for-the, assistants,
both seniors and underclassmen, this publi-
cation would have been a colossal failure in
more ways than one. soos,

It might be well to mention the real value
of occupying such a position as we have
filled during the past years. Three years

~and a half of work on a weekly paper calls

for much time, it also calls for some sacri-
fices,—but through it all we have felt that
we have received far more than we have put
into the paper. It has been a pleasure to
serve in this capacity and were we able to
decipher the subtle meaning of that hack-
neyed phrase “with mingled feelings of joy
and sadness” we would like to use it to ex-
press our feeling at this time. It is with

enuine regret that we realize-that this
issue is the last to be published under the

supervises of the old administration—but ~
6, e

college has given me, I would no doubt K

\

\

old order changeth, yielding place to -

the new” and we take this last opportunity.
of wishing them much success.
