October 11, 1928.

THE DAV

IDSONIAN he

Page Three

N OTL [TPIT JPA YT, JOP LTO
SOCIETY

Yuu fey Ws fey RHR

Delta Pi Kappa Feed

On Tuesday evening in the parlor of
Watts the Delta Pi Kappa honorary fra-
ternity held its regular quarterly meeting.

T. U. O. Alumni at Game

R. S. Lowrance, '28, of the Gastonia
High School faculty;. Jack Hand, '27;
A. K. Harrison, '24; Ed. P. O'Connor,
’24, visited the chapter house on Concord
street on last Saturday while here fof the
Elon-Davidson game.

General points concerning the fraternity
activities were discussed. After the busi-
ness, the scene of the party was changed
to the Students’ Store, where refreshments
awaited. Those present were: W. H.
Bailey, J. B. Moriarity, W. K. Pritchett,
N. T. Gilmour, C. M. Pratt, F. D. Miller,
A. N. Brown, and R. T. Jarratt.

¥
K. x. -Guests

Witt Hancock, of the class of '28, was
a week-end visitor.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Guthery, Paul Jami-
son, Dr. Tom Sparrow, and Carl Peenser,
of Charlotte, and Jack Taylor, of Salis-
bury, were callers at the K. A. house.

Sigma Upsilon :
Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fra-
ternity, held its first regular meeting of
the year last Friday evening. After the
program, the main featurevof which was

Miss Georgs Sails
Miss Alvenie Georgs leaves New York

on the Berengaria, sailing October 16,| the reading of a paper on Disraeli, by Dr.

. : *raze vod, of the faculty, refresh-
for her home in Dessau, Germany. Dur- Frazer Hoo = . , ae ait
& Pe) St nits vere served, rot, . ° avis
ing the past summer she has been visiting | MEMES Were serve hay
in Scarsdale, N..Y. Last winter Miss | V@S the guest of honor. Those present

arsdale, N. Y. Las Mis

Er-
Dr. Cummings,

from the faculty were: Professor
Dr. Hood,
and Professor Lilly. From the student
body: R. A. Boggess, D. F. Cannon, R.
M. Covington, Frank Hall, J. G. John-
son, and W. B. McQueen.

Georgs was the guest of her sister, Mrs.

yen ¢ win, Frazer
L. B. Henderson, wife of Professor Hen-
derson, and attended classes in the gol-

lege.

Banquet for Ministers
On Saturday evening the Ministerial
Band informally entertained members of

S. A. E.

Over the past week-end the S. A. E.

the Freshman class in the social hall in] .o¢jay fraternity was host to a house
the basement of the village church. Hot party. The chapter house was  attrac-
chocolate and sandwiches were served. tively arranged to receive the guests.
Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the local] punch and sandwiches were served at an

church; -Dr. .C. K. Brown, of the Da-) informal reception on Saturday night. A

vidson College faculty, and Camper) yumber of girls stayed over after the
O'Neal, Y. M. C. A. secretary, were} game with Elon. The guest list included :
present as guests of honor. During the] y{cces Lib Patterson, Charlotte; Annie

evening Dr. Brown and Allan Frew ad-]| white, Raleigh; Bert Sterling, Wilming-
Horn, Mocksville;
Virginia
McPhail, Rockingham;
Tippe Galloway, Winston-Salem; Miriam

dressed those present. Regina Louise

Morris,

ton;

Mrs. H. M. Moffett graciously acted as Reed, Con-
hostess, assisted by Miss Minnie Scofield,

and her two daughters, Misses Susan and

Concord ;

cord; TFrances

Carolina Moffet, and Miss Helen De-]} Weeks, Hendersonville.
Vaun.
A Pee baanroneniae : EDITOR'S NOTE:
Proctor Thompson, of the Gastonia Material for this column is furnished

Public School faculty; R. A. Glenn, ’28;
W. O. Green, '27; A. M. Sparrow, '27,
all of the Concord High School faculty,
were week-end visitors.

by each fraternity through its represen-
tative. Omission of any articles of in-
terest should not be attributed to over-

sight on the part of the Society Editor.

FACULTY MEMBERS
_ TO ATTEND SYNOD

chett, formerly of Woodberry Forest, and | Davidson Sending Delegation of
now of athletics at Davidson,| Eight Composed of College and
there is an extensive program of athletics Church Representatives

now under way on the campus. There are Sa
seven different kinds of sports now in
vogue in which 43 per cent of the stu- annual meeting in Maxton, at 7:30 p. m.,
| Tuesday, October 9. This year Davidson

Student Body Takes

Interest in Sports

director

The North Carolina Synod began its

dent body are actively engaged. ;
has a delegation of eight, composed of the

Football, of course, has the call. Eighty :
men report regularly to Coaches Younger, | © Hege and the local church representa-
Tilson, and Miles, who make. it tdanetle|INCS
business to see that none of them go| The represented
wanting for exercise. Next comes fall} President Martin, Dr. Lingle, Dr. Rich-
track. Sixty boys are working out under ards, and Dr, Henderson, while from the
Coach Pritchett each afternoon and the | church go Dr. Moffet, Professor Wood,
prospects for the coming season are far| Rev. W. M. Hunter, and Mr. C. H. Ham-
from dull, Captain Pritchett has arrang- | ilton. Most of the delegation left early
ed a very interesting fall program for the | Tuesday to motor to Maxton, The last
track men which is climaxed by an intra~| Session is expected to come to an end
mural track meet to be held on November | late this afternoon.
3. Every man on the campus is eligible,
provided he has been doing four weeks of
training before the meet.
Novice events, will be included in the
scoring, so the new men will have equal
opportunities for carrying off the honors,
with the old men. Prizes and awards will
be given to the men placing in the events.
Basketball ,tennis, wrestling, golf, and
campus football all have their following, a |

college will be by

Two questions, in the main, are occupy-
ing the attention of the assembly this ses-
consistent sion. The first is the proposal to con-
Presbyterian educational inter-
ests under the Synod as opposed to the
present system of control by local Presby-
teries. The second is to combine all work
now in the hands of the individual Pres-
byteries and place it under a state com-
mittee which will have complete oversight

solidate

great many men enjoying these sports| of the various branches of the church
each afternoon, Boxing will begin about | work, such as foreign missions, home
December 1, and from advance reports} missions, publications, etc. The latter’s

there are a large number of promising
pugs waiting for the gong.

A physical improvement contest has
been planned to take place later in the
fall. Measurements will be taken of the
biceps, forearms, thighs, calves, chest
normal, and neck. They will be taken
again after some months of training and
the three men showing the greatest im-
provement will receive gold, silver, and

purpose is to be a sub-organization to the
national General Assembly's “Work of
Forty-Four.”

It is not yet definitely know what action
the Synod has taken on these long-agitated
questions. However, it is generally be-
li¢ved throughout the that both
measures will be passed.

state

GAMMON DELIVERS

bronze medals, respectively. However,
the contest is expected to be run off as i
echeduled : (Continued from page 1)
‘ daily confront him but how he reacts to
the hard, sacrifice-inyolving jobs that
CAPTAIN WEEMS come his way. A leader must be ready to
assume responsibility, not from a sense of
(Continued from page 1) conceit but from the realization of duty,
citations. His record shows further that

and he must be ready to carry through in
spite of handicaps and the hardships in-
volved. If he lives up to these principles,
Dr. Gammon showed, that leader is a
success.

he is a graduate of the Command and
General Staff School at Fort Leaven-
worth, Kansas, and is on the General Staff
eligibility list.

Johannesburg, Oct. 10—(IP)—That
man emerged from the Kalahari desert in
Africa is the opinion of Dr. Ernest Cadle,
of the Cameron-Cadle expedition.

Madison, Conn., Oct. 10(1P)—George
A. Wilcox, 96, one of the oldest living
graduates of Yale University, died here
of pneumonia after a week’s illness.

DR. THOMPSON

(Continued from page 1)
was captain of the golf team, member

of the tennis team, and was chosen as
manager Of the track team.

His last year’s service with the Y.
M. C. A. was as vice-president in
charge of personal work. His Chris-
tian character, backed up with leader-
ship and ability, made him a valuable
man as a Y worker for the three years
in which he served,

Graduated in 1905, Dr. Thompson
went to Cluster Springs Academy in
Virginia where he taught and coached.
From 1906 until 1910 he was a student

at Union Theological Seminary and
Won stich distinction that he was
awarded the Hoge Fellowship, the

highest honor at the seminary,

Leaving the seminary he was pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church in
Lexington, Va.; the First. Presbyterian
Church of Knoxville, Tenn., and the
Government St. Presbyterian Church
of Mobile, Ala. As a pastor he showed
the traits which led to his selection to
fill the Robert Critz chair of religious
education at the seminary, where he
has been for eight years.
war he served at
Charlotte.

During the
Camp Greene, in

Davidson College conferred upon
him the degree of Doctor of Divinity

in 1010.

Especially to university and college
students Dr. in great
demand in both the north and south.
He has been called repeatedly to some
of the largest pulpits in the northern
and southern Presbyterian churches.
As a public speaker he wields a tre-
mendous influence, but he excels in
the kindly influence of his personal
self.

Thompson is

Large crowds of Davidson students
and townspeople are expected to hear
him speak. interviews
personal problems may be arranged

through W. F. Hill, Jr.

Personal on

FAMOUS DOUBLE PLAYS

Hope to Pass
Late to Chapel
Back to work.

y

LITERARY SOCIETIES

EUMENEAN

At the last meeting of the Eumenean
Literary Society Dr. Porter gave an in
He
value of literary
After his talk “he con-
ducted a drill in parliamentary procedure.

teresting talk on Parliamentary Law.
laid much stress on the
society training.

The meeting tonight will see the debut
of four of the new members who will en-
gage ina debate on a subject of common
interest.

PHILANTHROPIC

The meetng of the Philanthropic So-
ciety last Thursday was featured by an
animated discussion of the proposed modi-
fication of the prohibition lio P rane
present took part in the
argument and debate wags fast and furious.

cally everyone
3y a vote of 18 to 16 the society voted in
favor of the continuance of the present
system, At the conclusion of the program
four new members were received into the
society. A full attendance is urged for
tonight. The program consists of mar-
riage and divorce conditions in the United
States.

To Whom It May Concern:

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A.
has on hand a complete moving picture
show outfit which it is anxious to sell.
The outfit includes the following parts:

One Simplex Moving Picture Machine.

One Powers Inductor. (This is made
by the Nicholas Power Co.).

One Fire-proof Operating Box or Shed.

When this machine was last used, it was
in fairly good shape. A moving picture
machine operator told us that with a few
repairs, costing from $35 to $40, this
machine would pass for new.

If you are interested in getting a very
good Moving Picture Outfit or if you
know of anyone who would be interested
in this proposition, please-wfite to The
Davidson College Y. M. C. A., Davidson,
NG: :

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere
We'll See They Get There”

Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips

HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“With The Other (Colleges

Austin, Texas, Oct. 10—(1P)—As an
insurance that blanket tax athletic tickets
will not be transferred, the University of
Texas athletic council has arranged a
method whereby the picture of each stu-
dent paying for a blanket tax will be
placed on his athletic ticket.

This action was forced by the persist-
ence of students in other years in allowing
their, friends and room-mates who had
not paid for blanket taxes to attend games
they themselves were unable to attend.

It was also necessary to devise some
means of preventing s

iulping of rooting
section tickets for big games, a practice
which tended to destroy the effectiveness
of the section, ‘

The University of Texas blanket tax
saves the students $65 in campus expenses
throughout the year.

Pittsburgh, Pa., ¢ 10—(IP)—Twelve
major topics for discussiOnat the Second
International Conference on Bituminous

Coal, to be held under the: auspices OF

Carnegie Institute of Technology, here,
on November 19-24, aré tentatively an-
nounced by Dr. Thomas S. Baker, presi-

dent of the institution, and chairman of |

the congress.
About 100 engineers and scientists rep-
resenting 15 nations have already accepted

invitations to speak or to send papers to

the congress, and the number of speakers
and delegates is growing daily.

About |

60 percent of the papers will be deliver- |

ed by representatives of countries other
than the United States.

Oberlin, O., Oct.
College has purchased several hundred

10—(1P)—Oberlin |

acres of land on the Vermilion River, a!
few miles north of here, which is to he |

used exclusively for a hunting, fishing and
camping grounds for the male students of
the college.

Phe purchgse of the land followed on

the heels of {moyement started here sev-
eral years ago and brought to a head just
recently, repudiate — the
rumor that Oberlin is a “women's coll-
ege,”

to

traditional |

The men of the college had complained
that they had insufficient men’s life, and
the purchase of the tract was the answer
of the college trustees to the complaint.

New York, Oct. 10.—(iP)—Dartmouth
College has more foculty members listed
in the 1928-29 “Who's Who In America”
than any other educational institution of
college rank and size in the country.

Oberlin College is second in number
of names in the book, with Swarthmore,
Smith, Amherst and
trailing close behind,

Pomona Colleges

Kansas City, Mo. Oct. 10—(1P)—
Two fatalities marred the opening of the
1928 football in Missouri, Lee
Harmon, Pierce City high school, having
died with a broken neck received in a
game at Monett, and Herschel Bartlett,
18, Central high school gridder at St.
Joseph, having died in a hospital there

from-njuries received in practice.

season

Ann Arbor, Mich. Oct. 10.—(IP)—
William Heston, Jr., is on the freshman
football squad at the University of Michi-
gan this fall, grooming himself for a half-
back position. Heston is hailed as the
successor of his father, Judge Heston, of
Detroit, the “Wonderful Willie” of the
famous Michigan point-a-minute team of
25 years ago.

Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 10(—IP)—An
astronomy course for those of the public
who like to gaze at the heavens on starry
nights has been instituted at Case School
of Applied Science here by Dr. Jason J.
Nassau, associate professor of mathe-
matcs and astionomy,

Hamilton, N. Y., Oct. 10—(IP)—Elec-
trical apparatus for the accurate genera-
tion and measurement of noise and tone
has been developed and put to use in the
psychological laboratory of Colgate Un-
versity, to replace the former mechanical
methods employed in such experiments.

TOBACCO TRUTHS

DAVIDSON—An Honor College
CHESTERFIELDS—An Honor Cigarette

@

Yours,

CHESTERFIELD BILL.

Drugs

CANDIES

Make Our Store Your Store

We carry only the best in drugs and drug sundries

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Soda —

SUNDRIES °

If all the Camel smokers in the world were placed

end to end, they would reach—for more Camels!

CAMEL smokers know too much about choice tobaccos to go off on a

tangent. In the idiom of a prominent public personage, they “do not

choose” to be sidetracked. Why? Dunt esk! For thereby hangs a

tale... a tale of the up-and-up enjoyment experienced smokers have

©1928 R. J.

‘

REYNOLDS TOBACCO

COMPANY,

WINSTON-SALEM,

found in this finest blend of choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.

N. C.

-.
