THE

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

Tl
Hr ;

iu

ni

Alumni Council

Plans

. Dinner And A Meeting

Dr. J. P. Matheson, President, to
Entertain Council at Manufac-
turers’ Club

At the invitation of Dr. J. P. Matheson,
"99, president of the Davidson College Alum-
ni Council, members of the council and offi-
cers of the general alumni office will attend
a dinner at the Manufacturers’ Club in Char-
lotte, Thursday evening, April 19th, at 6:30
o'clock. Immediately following the dinner,
members of the council will consider reports
and recommendations of the general alumni

officers, and will take final action on a num-
ber of important matters.

First in importance will be a discussion of
the method of electing alumni members of
the board of trustees. Under a recént re-
vision of the college constitution and by-laws
provision was made for the selection of 12
alumni trustees in lieu of six as formerly
provided for. Nomination of six new trus-
tees as well as two successors for alumni
trustees, whose terms expire this year, is
scheduled. Perfection of a method of elect-
ing these men, so that every member of the
alumni association may participate in the bal-
loting, is also included on the calendar of4
matters to be acted upon by the council at
their Thursday evening dinner-meeting.

A discussion of plans ‘and arrangements
for alumni reunions, scheduled for Com-
tmencement, including consideration of the
proposal that the president of the alumni
council be elected on general ballot rather
than upon nomination at the annual Com-
mencement alumni dinner, is predicted.

Financial reports, as well as a general re-

In Charlotte To-Night

Yale Seniors State
Their Preferences

Seniors in Yale College, according to
preferences indicated in the annual class
vote, prefer a Phi Beta Kappa key to the
“Y” earned in major sports, like Harvard
next best to Yale, consider Lindbergh and
Mussolini the outstanding world figures
of the day, and Lindbergh the man now
living they most admire. They also be-
lieve that prohibition has harmed college
life, that English is the most valuable
subject and psychology the least valuable,
and they are opposed to splitting the
college into smaller units.

Seniors in the Sheffield Scientific

School voted Lindbergh their favorite
world figure, a ntajox“Y” more desirable
than Sigma XT, ant Pri on their fav-

orite college next to Yale-—Their favorite
in fiction is d’Artagnan; in history, Na-
poleon; among novels Tom Jones; among
prose authors, Thomas Hardy; among
poems, If; and among poets, Kipling.

These were only a few, a very few, of
the matters on which the seniors declared
themselves.

Bort on aetivities of the alumni office, will
be rendered by the alumni secretary.

Members of the alumni council include, 33
addition to the two secretaries of the ag$-
ciation, Dr. J. P. Matheson, president; Rev.
J. C. Rowan, D.D., 04, Concord; F. L. Jack-
son, ’06, Davidson; Hugh Query, '09, Gas-
tonia; Dr. Oren S. Moore, ’08, Charlotte.
Mr. J. A. Scott, '11, of Statesville, who is
vice-president of the association, will also
attend the dinner.

Davidson

KODAKS
VICTROLAS
SUNDRIES

Meet Your Friends at the

Stationery Co.

Everything for the Student

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.

Where Quality and Service Reigns

Book and

SUPERIOR
SODA
SERVICE

Chariette, N.C.

banking needs.

Government.

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision! of United States
Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.. &

Founded 1874

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President L W. STEWART. Cashier and Trust OGeer
| CW. JOHNSTON, Vice-President “ay J. B. DOAR, Acot. Cashier?
AT. , View Preeident : M. T. WILLIAMS, Assletent Cashice |
PULLER HENDRIX, Accloiant Cashier
oe e coco

[ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has just reached the alumni
office of the engagement and approaching
marriage of Albert Carmichael Wood, ’20, to
Miss Katherine Kinnon Binford, daughter of

| ALUMNI PERSONALS

Rev. A. M. McLauchlin, ’99, who has been ,
pastor at Williamsburg, Mo., has. recently
moved to Chester, S. C., and will be in
charge of a group of churches near that city:

Rev. Robert King, D.D., '06, of Pulaski,

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Binford, of Atlanta,
Ga. The marriage will take place in May
at the home of the bride’s parents, in Atlanta. |
Mr. Wood is a popular young business man |
of Charlotte, and is connected with the Char-
lotte Hudson automotive sales company of

* |
that city.

Va., will preach the commencement sermon
to the graduating class of Danville Military |
Institute, and Rev. Robert W. Miles, ’11, of |
Lynchburg, Va., has been chosen to deliver |

stitution,

Announcement has just been made of ‘the |

Rev. W. C. Jamieson, 13, has resigned his

Friends of T. D. Dupuy, ’01, of Greens-

boro, and Frank S. Dupuy; ’89, of Wilming-
ton, Calif., will regret to learn of the death
of their mother, Mrs. Mary Sampson Dupuy,
which occurred recently at the home of Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Lexington, Va.
Mrs. Dupuy was a mother-in-law of Dr.
Smith and Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Sr., ’92, of
Richmond, Va.

|the commencement address at the same in- |

Friends will also regret to learn of the

engagement and approaching marriage of | pastorate at Kannapolis, N. C., to accept a| death of Mrs. C. C. Beam, Sr., mother of

Mr. William Theodore Spencer, ’26, of Gas- |

call to the church at Staunton, Va.

tonia, N..C., to Miss Ernestine Donnelly |

Livingston, of Orangeburg.
ston, who was graduated from Winthrop
College, has been a teacher in the Gastonia
public schools for the past two years. She
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Liv-
ingston, and is popular among the younger
set of both Orangeburg and Gastonia. Mr.
Epencer is engaged in business at Gastonia,
where he holds a responsible position with
the Spencer Lumber Company. The mar-
riage will take place in June, following
which Mr. and Mrs. Spencer will make their
home in Gastonia,

Mr. P. M. Robinson, '23; of Lexington, N.
C., was married to Miss Opal McCully, of
Statesville, in’ Salisbury, Saturday, March
24th, at the home of Rev. Edgar A. Wood,
19, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church.
Mr. Robinson is the son of Mrs. Lucy Rob-
inson, of Newton, and the late C. C. Robin-
son, of Denver. He received his education at
Davidson, graduating in the class of ’23, fol-
lowing which he entered business at Lexing-
ton. Mrs. Robinson, the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Irvine Gilbert McCully, and is
a bright and attractive young woman. She
was born in Oregon, but has spent most of
her life in Montana, where she was educated
at the University of Montana. For the past
year she has held a responsible position with
the Statesville daily as editorial and office
assistant. Mr. and Mrs. Robinson will make
their home at Lexington.

Mr. Henry Martin White, ’24, of South
America, will be married to Miss Annie Leila
Barr, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George
Thornwell Barr, of Columbia, S. C., at an
early date, according to an announcement
just received at the alumni office. Miss Barr
is formerly of Greenville, S. C., and was
graduated from Flora Macdonald College,
at Red Springs. Mr. White is the son of
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh M. White, of Virginia.
He is a civil engineer, located with the R.
W. ,Hard Company, at Medellin, Colombia,
S. America. The marriage will take place
in Panama in April.

Morgan and Richardson
to Speak at Graduation

Dr. Frank C. Morgan, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Augusta,
Ga., has been chosen to deliver the bac-
calaureate sermon before the senior class
on May 27th, which service will begin the
annual commencement exercises.

Dr. Morgan is the son of Dr. Campbell
Morgan, world famous preacher and Bible
student who for a number of years held
the same pulpit that his son now holds.
Dr. Frank Morgan is a fine speaker and
puts his message over in a very impres-
sive manner. :

The senior class in indeed fortunate in
securing a man of ‘such prominence to de-
liver the baccalaureate sermon.

-On Tuesday, May 2oth, the Rev. Donald
W. Richardson, of Richmond, Va., will de-
liver the literary address. Dr. Richard-
son has been a missionary of the Pres-
byterian Church ‘in China. He is a grad-
uate of Davidson College and of. Prince-
ton Theological Seminary. While at Da-
vidson, Dr. Richardson was valedictorian
of the class of ‘oz and the recipient of

Miss Living- |

the Rowan County schools, will deliver the
| literary address at the commencement of
Harrisonburg high school.

several scholastic and forensic honors.

| During his service in China, Dr. Richard-
son has served as a professor in the Nank-
jing Theological Seminary.

Dr. George Howard, '12, superintendent of |

| Rev. C. C. Beam, ’09, of Charlotte.

Robert Critz, ’17, of Winston-Salem, N.
| C., has purchased an airplane for individual
|} use, and has been invited to use it in coming
lto the Davidson commencement in May. It
| will not be long before the alumni office
| will have to provide a landing field for its

}alumni who return to Davidson for Home-

coming and Commencement.

3
i

TOOTS

SLING

7

makes the min
study at night.
most favorable

baseballs and ba
See the new golf

and a_ bag for
golf balls.

If. You Want Your Frat Pin Back

, Take Her a Bag o’
Lance’s Salted Peanuts

Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

“IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?” ©”

4]

RVa\NaNaTeXitraNtye

1A

PLAY THE GAME

An afternoon of recreation

d more agile for
The weather is
for your chosen

sport and we are ready to furnish
the necessary equipment at
reasonable prices.

Tennis racquets, tennis balls,

ts.

set. Three irons

and a driver, the St. Andrews set,

$9.00. Kroflite

‘The Students Store |

4
