THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

Major Maloney was especially pleased
—- with the general “set-up” of the men.
(Continued from page 1) | Shoulders back, uniforms clean, shoes shined,
attended the Wednesday morning drill and and the general snap and spirit of the or-
watched the various companies at work on ganization all contributed to a good impres-
the drill field. sion.

General Davis arrived about noon, and | This inspection is not the final inspection
together, with Major Maloney and their re-' which determines whether or not Davidson
spective staffs ,he was entertained at a will receive honor rating for the coming
luncheon at the hotel by Dr.. W. J. Martin, year. This inspection, made by a committee
Attending this luncheon were members of of war department officials from Washing-
the army personnel assigned to this school, ton, will be held about the first week of
and the members of the faculty military April. Capt. B. D. Daugherty, popular com-
committce, |mandant of the Davidson unit, was well

Immediately after luncheon, General Davis pleased with the showing made on the: -th,
and Major Maloney conferred with Dr. but is particularly anxious that the showing
Martin on school affairs pertinent to the unit made then be as nearly perfect as possible.
here. | With the beginning of the second semester

Wednesday afternoon the entire battalion in three weeks, the battalion will go into
assembled for a review, with General Davis intensive training in preparation for this
as the reviewing officer. The review was| inspection. Cadets are urged to give their
excellently executed and was complimented | Officers all the co-operation possible while the
by the visiting officers. Many of the towns-|'nit is being whipped into shape for this

MILITARY UNIT

people and other Davidson friends ‘were
present at this ceremony, and together with
the students not taking military, made a

final inspection.

Captains Daughterty, Elkins, and Otto, and
Lieutenant Beckett, together with Sergeants

nice audience, Kirby and Burton, are working hard to per-

Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Greta Garbo in The Divine Woman

Davidson

WEDNESDAY
Olive Borden in Come to My House

THURSDAY
Mary Astor and Lloyd Hughes in Sailors’ Wives

FRIDAY
Coleen Moore in Her Wild Oats

SATURDAY
Tom Mix in Arizona Wild Cat

Ey

fect the organization and with the same
“esprit de corps” as was shown lately, the
chances are good for the school to repeat its
achievements of the past two years in mili-
tary circles,

PETER’S DECLARATION

(Continued from page 1)
Their impressive temple meetings were being

the Divine Truth.

Peter’s third choice might have been the
Essenes, who were the moralists of the day.
They, just as many in modern times, were
trying to bluff themselves and others into
thinking that they were able to live sinless
lives, >

But Peter rejected these false alternatives
and declared, “Thou hast the words of
eternal life,” the answer to man’s supreme
need, In some way he had come into contact
with the greatest personality of all time and
at the same time became conscious of the
finality of things.

Six hundred million people are today wor-
shipping the same Christ to whom Peter
professed loyalty. "They are finding that
He is the same now as then, and that belief
in Him is the factor needed to give balance
to life. His is the truth that connects. us
with the universe, and without it all wis-
dom is vain, concluded Mr. Carter.

SHEWMAKE’S STUDY

(Continued from page 1)

ature, and Virginia Pronunciation and Stand-
ard Pronunciation.

In the preface of the work, Dr. Shewmake
expresses his indebtedness to Professors
John C. Metcalf and James S.- Wilson, of
the University of Virginia; Professor Percy
W. Long, of Harvard University, and Pro-
fessor George Philip Krapp, of Columbia
University, for suggestions and advice con-
cerning the work.

“College English Composition,’ which
came from the press early in the year, was
of the authorship of Dr. Shewmake and
Professor Cramer, of the University of Ala-
bama. This work has been received very
favorably and accepted as the standard text

held at the same time they were crucifying,

SIX PROMINENT SPEAKERS

(Continued from page 1)
| considered to present the possibilities of that
| profession. Some one of a group of several
 iinisters, including’ Dr. Thornton Whaling,
of Louisville Seminary; Dr. B. R. Lacy, of
Union Seminary, and Dr. W. L. Lingle, of
the Assembly’s Training School, and chair-
man of the Board of Trustees of Davidson,
and Dr. W. E. Hill, of Richmond, will pre-
sent the advantages of the ministry.

In Education, Dr. D. M. Douglas, presi-
dent of the University of South Carolina,
and a brother of Professors Douglas, of the
Davidson faculty; and George Howard, of
Salisbury High, are among the group of
educationalists from whom one man will be
selected to talk to the students. In the field
|of medicine, Dr. Rankin, of Rochester, and
| Doctors Lafferty and Moore, of Charlotte,
are being considered among others.

Many newspaper men, including Josephus
Daniels, of the Raleigh News and Observer,
and J. S. Cohen, of the Atlanta Journal,
are being considered.

There are 250 men registered at Davidson
who have not decided on any profession as
a vocation. ‘There are a large group who
have signified their intention of entering a
certain profession but who are not certain.
It is for these men especially that the Insti-
tute has adopted its ambitious program, but
the Institute is also eager to have every
member of’ the student body at its weekly
meetings.

CALL FOR BIDS

(Continued from page 1)
officers ‘are confident that this will be raised.
Henry C. Hibbs, of Nashville, Tenn., is
the architect for the building, while the

! erection of the présent south. wing was done

by Blythe and Isenhour, of Charlotte.

Students of the college brought in a small
amount of money after the Christmas holi-

days in response to the appeal made by Mr.
Jackson to the men before they went to their
homes. Recently a magnanimous gift of
$5,000 was made to the building fund by
Mrs. C, B. Armstrong and chlidren, of Gas-
tonia. This gift will take the form of a
memorial room to the late Col. C. B. Arm-
strong, who was one of the foremost textile
executives in the South.

It is said the complete new Chambers will
be one of the finest and most imposing aca-
demic buildings in the South. It will be on
the site of the old Chambers building, the
style of architecture of which it will follow
to some extent. The. completion of this
building, officials feel, will be the consum-
mation of the ideals that have been in the
minds of the executives since the destroying
by fire of the old central building several
years ago. This néw building, the outcome
of the unabated efforts of those connected
with the'work, will, it is also felt, be a mark
of great progress of the college which has
been handicapped in the past few years by a
lack of proper equipment.

9 :00—O. D. K.

Monday Tuesday
7 :00—Glee Club Pan-Helenic
7 Keawea y it Control Biology Club
9 :00—O. P

at a number of colleges.

bad]

|
Ly

PUBOBOEK

ACSC GGG GINGA GANG

MOROMOMUMOMUM

BUI

OT

PURUTOTORENM

7)

SOMOMOMUMUMUM OM!

NW

S|
Dy
e
oy
s

Came Sn SO Se DIC, DIE TE UEC SC SUC WEE, SEEY DTZ DEO? NEE ETE VLE? ELE SO SE TET
_* * EE Tk A —_

MEETING HOURS AND DATES SANCTIONED
B
HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNCIL
(Until Spring Senior Exams)

Weeks of April 2
February 6 March 5 April 16
February 20 March 19 April 30
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Frida
7 :00—Glee Club Glee Club Glee Club

7:30—Court of Control Sigma Pi Sigma
D. P. K.

WEEK OF JANUARY 30 AND ON ALTERNATE WEEKS

Student Council

the

Scabbard and Blade G. S. E.

Wednesday Friday

Glee Club Glee Club
Ih dk, (Ch

Sigma Upsilon A, P. E

Opening Today
Something Davidson Hasn’t Had Before

Newest Victrola Records, Cold and Hot Fountain Drinks
All Students’ Supplies, Kodaks for sale or to lend
Popular Novels and Magazines, Smokes of all kinds
Quick Service on Developing and Printing Films

ALL THIS WILL BE IN

The Davidson Book and Stationery Company

“SERVICE AND QUALITY”

Va ete ee Ae ea ee

Located in W. S. Henderson’s Store
