THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

Undergrads’ Plague and
Seniors’ Joy Evacuates'

Semi-Annual Examinations Become |
Relic of the Past

Semi-annual discomfitures in the form of |
exams became a relic of the past for the fall |
term of this year anyway when the fast |
Freshmon, Sophomore, Junior and some few |
Seniors folded their Dixie Pads, put the cap |
on their fountain pens and joyfully exact: |
ated Chambers building last Saturday aft- |
ernoon, ; |

Some had enjoyed writing their small |
knowledge of William Shakespeare, others |
took great delight in transcribing Anglo- |
Saxon into present-day good English, ‘still |
others wrote page after page in appreciation |
of the modern drama while Freshmen and |
Sophomores answered a few questions on |
literature and usage and such things of |
import. |

But this set of exams was just a taste of |
what had preceded for nine days,. during |
which time joyful Seniors traveled to distant |
places to do things and meet people. Others
not so fortunate as to have gained exemp- !
tions stayed on the Hill and earnestly vowed
that next term will bring exemptions to them
likewise.

Students generally resolved that they won't
let work pile upon them until the last few |
minutes before exams and that each lesson of |
the day will be fully prepared so as to escape
execution in class, but several days will
probably see these good intentions filed away
as they see “just one more show” and then
to work.

Thieving procrastination will soon make
his appearance, according to.wise Seniors, and
tasks will appear more easily accomplished if
delayed. ;until tomorrow: ~~ But” industrious
Sophomores, diligent Juniors and inexperi-
enced Freshmen contend that such shall not
be and in the next moment try to borrow a
quarter so that they may see why “Gentle-
men Prefer Blondes.”

“The DivineWoman”’
is Coming Feature

The management of the Davidson Theater
has been very fortunate in getting a number
of very entertaining pictures for next week. |
Two of these are particularly outstanding,
“Old Ironsides” and “Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes.” The latter is one of the most
popular pictures of the season, while “Old |
Ironsides” is equally entertaining. Both of
these are high lights among the new pic- |
tures. Richard Barthelmess in “The Noose”
and Greta Garbo in “The Divine Woman,”
which will be on later in the week, are both
very highly esteemed by critics and are said
to be excellent.

The program for next week is as follows:

Thursday, February 2—Ruth Taylor in
“Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.”

Friday, February 3—‘The Noose,”
Richard Barthelmess,

Saturday, February 3—A good Western.

Monday and Tuesday, February 6 and 7—
“Old Ironsides,” with a star cast.

Wednesday, February 8—Greta Garbo in
“The Divine Woman.”

Phi Gamma Deltas
Hold 79th Meeting

The 7oth convention of the fraternity of
Phi Gamma Delta was held at West Ba-
den Springs, Indiana, on December, the
28th, 29th, goth and jist. The convention
was attended by over five hundred grad-
uates and undergraduates of the frater-
nity. Carl (Bobby) Long, of the class of
‘21, J. S. Foster, Jr., and M. C. O'Neal were
the representatives of the local chapter.

The convention held its first session in
the atrium of the well known West Ba-
den Springs Hotel. The president of the
fraternity, Horace I, Brightman, called the
meeting to order, and business sessions of
every type were held. Among the chief
speakers of the sessions was Secretary of
the Treasury, Andrew’ W. Mellon.

Many forms of entertainment were pro-
vided by the chapters in the state of JIn-
diana for the delegates to the conclave.
The most interesting’ divertisement was |
the visiting of the spa from which the |
far famed Pluto Water flows and a New|
Year’s dance_at which many of Indiana's |
best looking girls were’ present: |

with

A convention similar to the one held | }

during the holidays is held every year and |
a half. The next convention, by vote of |
the delegates “present, will be held in|
Boston, Mass., during the latter part of
the summer. of. 1929.

| been idle during the mid-year examination

Wildcats Busy as _|Juniors Will Issue
Examinations End| Special Davidsonian

1

The various athletic teams which fave" As an accompaniment to the Junior Speak-

ing week which is to be held sometime dur-
ing the spring there will be issued a special
Junior number of “The Davidsonian.” This
issue of the paper will be devoted almost en-
tirely to ‘the Junior class; it will contain
among other things news of the activities of
the class and of its accomplishments, a his-
tory of it, and perhaps cuts of its various
officers and prominent men.

This paper, according to the purpose of
the committee in charge, will be a much
larger and finer edition than the regular
“Davidsonian.” It will be composed of 12
or more pages and it will be worked up and
arranged in the best possible way by a num-
ber of sub-committees, each of which will
have individual charge of some one part of
the paper.

Raymnd Lake has been appointed editor

period, will take up their activities where
they left off before examinations with a total
of five athletic encounters for this week, in-
cluding the two contests yesterday.

Spring football began here with an en-
tirely new note when Coach Monk Younger
announced that he would allow but 50 ‘can-

didates to report for practice as opposed to
the hundred odd men who reported last vear,
who then, having been issued equipment, be-
gan to drop out by twos and threes. Tisose
candidates allowed to report for practice will
Ye men carefully picked from among those
who participated in football during the past
season. In addition there will be approxi-
mately 20 men who will be recruited from of this issue and he, together with a number
among the ranks of the last Freshman squad. | of helpers, is at work on the task of getting
The practice which began on January 20th is | together this special number.
scheduled to continue for a period of si: | plans will be forthcoming shortly, it is said.

weeks.
}

(r-

In addition to the commencement of spring |
football practice, the five contests booked | COLI EGE JEWEI RY
consists of the varsity basketball game with ; d
Wofford, and the Winston-Salem Freshman
wrestling match yesterday; the Freshman- Watches and Clocks
Wake Forest Freshman basketball game te-
day, and the E!on-Davidson basketball game
Saturday night, together with the Davidson-
Carolina wrestling match also on Saturday.

Here is the calendar of for the
week beginning January 30th:

Sheaffer Pens and Penerls

giakis Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

February 1—Basketball: Davidson
Wofford, 8:00 p. m.. Wrestling: Davidson
Fresh vs. Winston-Salem High.

Vs.

e
February 2—Basketball: Davidson Fresh
vs. Wake Forest Fresh.

February 4—Basketball: Davidson
Elon, 7:00 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson vs

University of North Carolina,

Vs.

More definite

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-

The Japanese estimate that on a Jap-
anese standard f living the world could
support 2,§00,000,000 people ; while, only
1,000,000,000 could live under American
standards,

Frozen milk in huge blocks is being
shipped from Seattle to China and the
Straits Settlements. The milk is said to
‘e fresh. when thawed out upon arrival.

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N C

Tobacco is being grown for market in
a valley in British Columbia which cor-
responds in latitude to the northern part
yf Newfoundland.

Our Great January

Clearance of Suits

and Overcoats now

iq in progress

MELLON’S

Charlotte, N. C.

So, This is Leap Year!

By BRIGGS

WHEN You've BEEN SPENDING
ALL OF YouR FYEBRINGS AND
MoST OF YOUR PAY FOR THREE
YEARS ON A Wonwderrut GiRL

LATRLY
How WON
ER- ER-
UH- Go To TH
Tonnorrow

“AND You've NEVER GEEN ABLE
To GRT VP GNOUGH NERVE To
PoP THE Big QUESTION

"ve BEEN THINKING A Lot
AND — 7VH>" ro
OeRRUL IT WOULD BE
1© we COULD—

- AND THEN ONE NIGHT SHE
SHOWS SIGNS. OF BECOMING
SENTIMENTAL

JOE, You KNow | THINK

Dine tale A TERRIBLE LoT

& THEATRE A
NIGHT y y
(5)

= al

AND \ Hope YOu WON'T !

TINK (mM TERRIBLY FORWARD

IN ASKING You THs THAT, COUGH

WANT You To SMOKE OLD
GOLD CIGARETTES..... 61M
FRIGRTFULLY WoRRIED ABOUT:

MEANS. NOTHING

OF YouRS IN My SHATTERED

OLD GOLD

The Smoother and Better Cigaretie
....not a cough in a carload

© 1928, P. Losillard Co., Bat. 1200
