November 1, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Fiwe
: ——_——
é 3
i WILDKITTENS AND BLUE IMPS — FRIDAY :
e e
° : —e e
e e
3 :
e e
$ ; $

i t|Deamon Deacons of WEST VIRGINIA BoY _ || Wildkittens Scrap Wildcats to Meet Shad Goodson New
CAT TRAX Wake Forest Crush Blue Imps Friday Strong V. M. I. Team Fresh Captain

As They Follow the Red and Crippled Wildcats ies a tmene atl
Black _— Tomorrow at 3:30 o'clock, on Richard- D Tien Te at aera 3, ee aaa ae
+3, H H ; Te » “Wrildictttens’? iwi ‘ avidson Cats engaged in a struggie to K. L.. Goodson, better known as “Shad,”
By Zeb V. Long, Jr. Critical Mishaps Are Ruinous to son Field, the “Witldkittens” will pit Reve = Gene per pa )
y e se Dee te hth o Break- themselves against the strong Duke Fresh- ah ae My a the ts ee = : aE of Lincolnton, N. C., was recently elected
+ sn on ie Wit tists an eleven. The “Little Red Machine” | 5u@dron,” in its own headquarters. This eno se

rénicore aia wilcna eee g tf ath ad ap’ nel Dear si aan . Aer aE day's business fairly bristles with appall- to the captaincy of the 1928 Wildkitten
thirty serious and determined PASSES FATAL top the fray : ~ “*"Jing possibilities. Will the fighting ’Cats| football eleven. Goodson won a close

Wildcats rolling toward the Val-
ley of Virginia, the scene of many
a fyrious battle. At Lexington,
waiting to meet them, will be the
embattled forces of the V. M. I.
Cadets, led by that gallant captain,
Ab Barnes, triple threat man, run-
ner de luxe. Confident, and sure
of victory, the Cadets may be sur-
prised before the encounter is over.
The Cats, smarting from unexpect-
ed defeats, are out for blood.

Two of the best backfield men in the
entire South will be pitted against David-
son Saturday. Well do the Sons of Felix
remember the high-stepping and elusive
Hawkins, the first foreigner to cross the
goal line on Richardson Field. Ab Barnes
is the boy who runs wild without much
provocation. The more tacklers there are
after him, the better he dodges and side-
steps, and his kicking and passing are the
joy of the Corps. Barnes is to V. M. I.
what McDowall was to State, and that is
saying a lot for any team.

V. M. I. has a powerful team, as
her record this fall shows. A 9-0
win over Virginia is the high spot
of the Flying Squadron’s season so
far. Monk Younger’s men have
met with everything but success.
The return of Black and Flinn to
the Wildcat backfield will add im-
measurable strength both to de-
fense and offence, #hd with’ the
line in pretty good phape, the
Cadets may look for a hard scrap.

25-6 is a plenty bad licking to take from
anybody, but it’s terrible when Wake For-
est hands it out. Still, with all due re-
spects to the winning club, we don’t think
the Deacons have as strong a club as the
score indicates. The varsity looked no
better than the sophomores who started,
and, all told, it looked like an ordinary
ball club. The difference lay in David-
son's glaring weakness.

Poor kicking and handling of
punts, and poor defense against
passes, nothing more, cost the Cats
that game. They held well against :
line plays, but attempted Deacon
pass found a receiver wide open
and completely uncovered. Some-
thing must be done about that sort
of thing. No team can win until)
they learn to stop a pass once in a
while at least. Those first two
breaks took a lot of the pep out
of the Davidson men. It’s mighty
hard to come back and win after
adverse breaks like that.

Riggs McConnell and Bo bKelt deserve
the wreaths for that game. Riggs is play-
ing a bang-up game at his center position.
Every other play ended with Riggs swing-
ing on some Deacon's legs. Bob shows
his heels near ylevery time he gets that
ball. His run from kick-off was a beaut,
but it was a herd pill to see it come in the
last minute or two of play.

The local Jungaleers have lost
their best opportunities to (salt
away some victories. Every re-
maining game will be an ordeal.
The main thing necessary is a win-
ning spirit. If that team goes out
on the field feeling that they can
win, they are bound to put up a
better front. Let's get away from
this pessimistic outlook. There
will be enough of that without
making it a general condition at
every Davidson football game. We
believe’ that team is going to end
the seasdn in better style than it
has begun. At least, it’s going to

* play more heads-up football.

Needless to say, Buck Mills is priming
his Kittens to trim the Blue Imps from
Duke here Friday. The Imps are good—
it will be a scrap whoever wins. But the
Kittens are good, too, and when it’s all
over we expect to find them on top. That
frosh backfield has all the earmarks of a
humdinger and the line is gaining strength
daily. Those Bradshaw boys look like a
coup'e of Jankoskie twins. Drive—whew!

Beary

Kell’s Long Run and McConnell’s
Defensive Work Are Shining
Lights of Bad Defeat

Taking advantage of all the breaks that
came their way, the Wake Forest Dea-
cons succeeded in breaking the three-year
tie with Davidson last Saturday. The
final score was 25 to 6, The Wake Forest

running attack which gained ground con-
sistently. Their defense was strong and
mhad an unpleasant way of) stiffening
when a first down would have meant
worlds to the Davidson cause.

The breaks were what decided the game,
to a large extent. They were responsible
for two of the Deacon scores. However,
the last two Deacon scores came as a re-
sult of their beautiful passing.

The passing and running attacks of
Wake Forest were extremely good.
Through them, the ball was kept in Da-
vidson territory for a good deal of the
time. It seemed that the whole Deacon
backfield could throw the ball and that
everybody but the hurler could snag the
passes from any angle necessary, Wake
Forest attempted 15 passes and completed
nine, a g0o0d average for anybody's team.

The Wildcats received and marched
straight down the field. Davidson reeled
off three quick first oowns on this march,
and it looked as though nothing could stop
them. Things began to assume a very
dark hue for the Deacon backers. But
Wake Forest braced and Davidson was
unable to make the necessary yards, the
ball going over.

Late in the first quarter, Kell fumbled
the ball when he was tackled after catch-
ing a punt, and Wake Forest recovered
on the three-yard line. Cox carried the
ball over on the first play. Try for point
failed.

Kell got-loose for 45 yards near the
end of the second quarter, and together
with Brohard and Goodykoontz carried the
ball to the Wake Forest six-yard line.
Here again the’ Deacon line stiffened and
Davidson was held with only about six
inches to go.

The Foresters got two touchdowns in
the third quarter. The Deacon safety
man received a punt on his own 40-yard
line early in the quarter. It looked like
he was down in his tracks, three or four
’Cats being on him, In some manner,
though, he squirmed out and, eluding the
whole team, he raced 60 yards for a
score. Goal was missed. “A bad punt
gave the ball ‘to Wake Forest on the
Wildcat 30-yard line later in the quarter.
Two beautiful passes put the ball on the
six-yard line and Gibson smashed over
for a score. Again the try for point fail-
ed. This was about the only thing Wake
Forest seemed to be weak in.

The Deacons got their last score in the
| fourth quarter, again as a result of passes.
They got the ball in midfield and carried
it over with two passes and an 18-yard run
by Quillen. Extra point was made by
passing.

Kell scored the only Davidson touch-
down by the most spectacular run of the
game. Receiving the kick-off for the last
touchdown on his 20-yard line, he streaked
| out towards the right, got past a whole

flock of Deacons and showed a clean pair
| of heels to both teams. It was as pretty
}a run as his been seen in these parts for
|many moons. He did it with little or no
| help from his interference, literally out-
{running those who attempted to down him.
| Kell was the outstanding star of the
| Wildcats. His spectacular runs furnished
|thrills aplenty for the customers. He |
could almost always be counted on to gain
!on an off-tackle smash. He played the
| safety position very well, although he
| made two or three errors of judgment.

Brohard and Goodykoontz also played |
| good games in the backfield. +

Riggs McConnell, center, ‘ shown
| brightly in the line.
j over the field at once. His tackling was
| hard and clean. His passing back of the
| ball was almost perfect.

For Wake Forest, Hord and Quillen, in
the backfield, and Captain Weir and Park- |
er, in the line, played good games. Hord |
and Quillen were generally on one end |
or the other of the Deacon passes. Their |
work along this line was very good. |
Parker and Weir made themselves notice- |
able to Wildcat fans by their consistency
in smearing plays.

(Continued on page 6)

at
He seems to be all |

This move to have the
body buy uniforms for the band is
a most commendable one. That

l ked

Bavid ici have
It means pep—pep—pep. Every-

snappy appearance is one thing the

body in behind this—put it over.

boys had a well-developed passing and |‘

DAN GOODYKOONTZ,
Sophomore Quarterback, is going well
for Monk.

With Davidson’s
Opponents

After the dope upsets of last week it
would be hard to say which teams will
win this week. Two old rivals, North
Carolina and N. C. State, will battle at
Raleigh. North Carolina showed a good
offensive against Tech last Saturday, be-
ing one of the few teams that has scored
on Tech in the last two years. They
scored through a line over which Rockne’s
men could not run. Citadel meets South
Carolina at Orangeburg, and the game
should be a close one, with Carolina hold-
ing the edge.

Other games for this week are:

Clemson vs. U. of Miss., at Oxford,
Miss. Se

Wofford vs. Presbyterian College, at
Supartanburg.

Citadel vs. South Carolina, at Orange-
burg.

Wake Forest vs. Furman, at Charlotte.

The Duke Freshman team this year
comprises one of the greatest galazies of
high school captains and stars ever as-
sembled. Among the outstanding stars
may be,mentioned Beaver, backfield star, a
great punter and passer; Brewer, the
Winston-Salem flash, who, with his pass-
ing and backfield work, bids fair to be-
come another Buie; and finally, Duke's
center, an all-American high school cen-
ter.

The “Kittens” have been steadily im-
proving since their recent win from ‘Wof-
ford. Several new plays have been in-
troduced specially for the Duke contest,
and by Friday the freshmen expect to be
“primed to perfection.”

Among those who have been showing
up especially well for Davidson may be
mentioned, Mathis, hard-hitting left
guard, who had never seen a_ football
game and thought a “pigskin” necessarily
a part of a pig, until he came to Davidson;
“Big” Bradshaw, flashy halfback; and
the “Kittens’” imperturbable quarterback,
Goodson,

Inasmuch as the Davidson Freshmen
haven't won from Duke in the last three
years, they are awaiting the contest with
blood in their eyes.

Friday's game is the third of the five
games scheduled for 1928, After Duke,
the “Kittens” meet in order the N. C.

when you call on the women ?”

Austin: “Not now. They always com-
plain about the stiff shirt bosom being so
hard on the neck.”

“Mother, may I have a dress like that ?”
“No, darling, you are too young to
wear short dresses.”

State Freshmen and Asheville High |:
School.
Dew: “Do you wear evening clothes

Davidson vs. V. M. L, at Lexington,
N. C. State vs. U. N. C., at Raleigh.

Duke vs. Mercer, at Durham.

came back or can the Cadets again do the
steam roller act?

Last Saturday, Al Barnes and his co-
horts fought the Maryland “Old Liners”
with unbelievable ferocity to a scoreless
toss-up. Monday, Hewlett, Haase, and
McCray, together with Captain Barnes,
burst into headlines with their superb
play. Barnes, “the flying phantom in red,”
ripped off the major part of the “Squad-
ron’s” nine first downs, also in the third
quarter he hurled two passes for a total
of 65 yards. Haase, having substituted
for Smith early in the game, twice tore
through the Maryland line to throw backs
for losses of 10 and eight yards. Mc-
Cray’s offensive work, especially in bat-
ting down forward passes, approached
brilliance. Scott, at right end, snatched
several passes from seemingly impossible
positions. Combined, these boys make a
fighting aggregation that ought to prove

victory over several of his fellow players
who were nominated. He is first string
quarterback on Buck Miles’ freshman
eleven, and his sterling play and heady
generalship has been a feature of the
Kittens’ play thus far this season.

Goodson played last year on the cham-
pionship Oak Ridge Military Institute
team, and he was a star on that aggrega-
In the Wofford as well as Oak
Ridge games this year, “Shad” has lived
up to his prep school reputation. His easy
but driving style of carrying the ball, his
bullet-like passes, and his general work
have proved his worth. With three games
of stern quality facing them, Goodson and
his freshman teammates have a task ahead
of them,

tion.

slightly more than an appetizer for the
Wildcats.

TOBACCO TRUT:

For SATISFACTION’S Sake
SMOKE

FAS TERE

(THE HONOR CIGARETTE)

OS

LDS

And So His Face Was Utterly Ruined: 3 : : By BRIGGS
WI THat's RIGHT, SEEX TIMES You

CHOICE.,, ITS

FELLA... TAKE YoUR

OLD GOLDS FoR You
FROM NOW on - —
OR SVICIDE

EITHER

CouGe
LOAD

IN A

GoLuD TONY, WHILE
HE Stitt jHAS AY
FACE... NOT A

CAR-

The Smoother and Better Cigarette
.-..-not a cough in a carload

OP. Lorillard Co., Bet. 1760

COUGH, SEEXA Time
1 Cut You Face !!

PLEASE, | SHAVA
You No Mo'!!

oO

