2°

THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

—

—-

l-s- Sport Talk iF

News and Views of Wildcat
Events

By Raymond Lake

During the past week baseball has gotten
still further under way, and the varsity teams
have been having a practice game almost
every afternoon. During the game last Sat-
urday, the scrubs showed up unusually well
and came mighty near beating the varsity.
These practice games are valuable in more
than one way. In the first place they are one
of the best forms .of practice, and further-
more, they furnish quite a bit of entertain-
ment to»members of the student body and
other interested spectators. There are many
who get mighty anxious to see a baseball
team in real action about this time of the
year, and these games serve to satisfy that
longing to a certain extent.

During practice last week and during the
first part of this week, the same candidates
who were mentioned last week as those who
were doing well have been showing up. Mc-
Geachy seems to be taking the lead in the
catcher’s box, while McAuley ahd others fol-
low close behind. Kugler, Henderson, Mc-
Innis and Maulden seem to be the leading
twirlers so far, with the first two holding a
slight margin over the latter two. Crawford
is the most likely first-base candidate, while
Harrison appears to have the second sack
position sewed up. Littlejohn is still at his
usual place at short-stop, and is handling
this position in veteran fashion. On account
of the fact that Captain Dulin will not be
able to: play in several of the games, two
third-basemen wil be needed, and Johnny
Kugler is holding this place down.

In the outfield, there are two of last year’s
letter men, Ratchford and Johnson, who are
sure of berths on the team, and several can-
didates are working for the other position.
Johnston and Miller are in line for this place,
and others will probably try for it later in
the season, when the other positions on the
team have been more definitely picked. Mc-
Innis will probably play in the outfield part
_ Of the time and pitch:the other part. Some
of the members of the team might find a lit-
tle more and a little keener competiton for
their positions if some of the “dusky” as-

Blacks Again Defeated
In Gridiron Game, 6-0

Reds Win When Goodykoontz
Snags Forward Pass

In the second game of the spring football
schedule, Sant™Black and his team of Reds
again defeated the aspiring Blacks under the
leadership of Dick Flinn, the Georgia flash.
The steady play of the Reds as compared
with the erratic and slow action of their op-
ponents gave them the victory. The score
was tight, 6-0, the touchdown ‘coming when
Hammet threw a pass to Dan Goodykoontz,
the fleet-footed captain of last fall’s frosh
team, and the latter was downed after he had
crossed the last white line. |
The Blacks lost a good chance to score
when Parish and David advanced the ball to
the 15-yard line by a series of off-tackle
plays and speedy end runs, only to lose it on
a fumble. Parish made the longest run of
the game, when with good interference, he
returned a: kickoff for 55 yards. David
made several good line plays and put up a;
strong defensive game. The feature for the
Blacks, however, was the good work of Bill
Mason, at center, who time after time went
under punits to throw the runner. Sam
Smith showed up well until he went out with
a sprained ankle.

Both teams played ragged ball most of the
time, and many fumbles and so-called “‘bone-
heads” ocurred. The contest lacked the
spirit and pep of the one on the previous
Saturday, and except for a few sparkling
bits of individual work, it was a rather dead
exhibition.

Spring practice will probably hold forth
for another week, at the end of which period
Coach Monk will take charge of baseball
practice, and the old moleskins will again be
relegated to the shelves until “Doctor”
Charlie sounds his clarion again in Septem-
ber.

eT ey

pirants who were snatching flies so easily

the other afternoon could work out for the

Esprit de Corps

The power in our organization is
that famous “Wild-Cat Spirit;” a
spirit of teamwork and co-operat-

ion.

We serve your wants with

satisfactory merchandise at a reas-
onable cost and thc earnings in-
crease the Student Body Fund.

This is the spirit
andisucceeds.

We are ready to

that progresses

»

serve and serve

with the best, and remember

f
'

“IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”

‘|infield positions.

Wildcats Prepare for
Oak Ridge Cadets

Old Sol having taken on a more business-
like appearance and springtime in all its
glory being just around the corner, all in-
terest turns to baseball, termed the national
pastime in our fair land.

The baseball squad, having spent some
three weeks in a perid of orientation, are
down to the daily grind, smoothing out the
wrinkles and bobbles. Sore arms have been
left behind and the team is rounding into
form in preparation for the opening of the
season which is only a week away.

The lack of pitchers on the squad has
been sung before, but as they start putting
a little stuff into their work, it seems that
there is a man or two in the ranks that will
puzzle some batters during the coming sea-
son. McInnis and Meadows appear to have
more on the ball than the other members of
the squad and they are training their hooks
and curves over the corners. Maulden, the
left-hander, steams his puzzling hooks down
the alley and is showing good form in the
daily practice. Docs Kugler and Henderson
are in good shape and can be depended on in
some of the games. The pitchers as a whole
are in good shape and before the season has
gone far they should be showing some
ability.

Any weakness that may be felt on the
pitching staff will be offset by the snappy
infield, if they continue at the pace they are
now setting. Pat Crawford, brother of the
renowned, is taking care of first-base at the
present time and in no mean style. Arro-
wood, also out for this position, is furnishing

team. Some of them looked like good out-
field material.

The Red team in the white jerseys seems
to be the favorite team this year. The score
at the end of last Saturday’s game, just as
on the previous Saturday, was six to noth-
ing in favor of the Reds, and in both gaines
the touchdown was made by Goodykoontz.
Last Saturday’s touchdown was made on a
pass, however, rather than as the result of a
long run from the first kick-off. Perhaps the
Black team would have better luck if they
would give their red jerseys to the Red team
in return for the services of Captain Black,

whose color would be more in tune with their
name. To say the least, the jerseys and cap-
tains form a rare combination of colors.

The freshman candidates have been work-
ing out regularly for the past week, and
some fairly good material is beginning to
show up. The Wildkittens worked out on
the varsity field for about an hour before
the varsity workout Saturday afternoon, and
among those who were on the field at that
time, several good but no excellent players
were seen. Five or six candidates turned
out for the backstop position, but the two
most promising seem to be Covington and
Lynch. The twirlers did not take part in
Saturday’s workout, but there seems to be
several good candidates out. Jackson and
Goodson seem to be the most promising first-

»|base material, but there are several more

out for this position, and other good ma-
terial may develop later, Caldwell at second,
McMillan at short, and Marks at third also
showed up well for the ’Kittens in the other
here are several aspirants
out for the outfielders’ positions, but no pre-
dictions can be made for these positions yet.

Track practice has also been going on in
earnest during the past week. Coach “Tex”
has been working the squad since the middle
part of last week, and the runners are rapid-
ly rounding into shape and smoothing out
the kinks in their muscles. Coach Monk is
still directing the football team, and will be
with them till the end of this week, when
the football season will again close, and
Coach Monk will take over the varsity base-
ball team and thus leave Monk Mattox free
to take over his freshman charges.

The baseball season, and in fact the ‘spring
athletic season, will be formally opened next
week with the Oak Ridge game here on Fri-
day and the all-state high school track meet
here on the following Saturday. It won't

to be good ones.

of the Red team, and would don jerseys |

be. long riow, and the opening events promise

Both are creditable
hitters and should handle this post well.

plenty of opposition.

Garrison is running the regular position at
the keystone sack and is rounding into form,
and, with his bagful of bunts that aften ma-
terialize into hits on account of his speed,
he should cover the ground well and come
through in the pinch when a run is needed-

Frtiz Littlejohn hops around the shortstop
position in great style, while he has been
lining out nice hits in batting practice.

Captain Dulin and Kugler are working on
the hot corner and the position should be
well handled. Both are good hitters, Dulin
having shown exceptional form at the bat.
McGeachy has been taking care of the duties
of,,the catcher, McAulay being hot on his
heels for the position.

In the outfield two veterans, Ratchford
and Johnston, have been rambling around.
Johnston is out of practice at the present
with a sprained ankle, but it is hoped that
he will be back soon with his big willow.
Ratchford is also a good hitter. Miller bids
fair for the other position.

Several practice games have been played
and the first outside opposition was taken
on Tuesday afternoon. The team has been
working well together for the opening game
of the schedule, which will be played on
Richardson field next Friday afternoon with
Oak Ridge.

The annual opening game with this team
is always a good one and the Cadets always
bring a good team. They boast a pitcher in
Wilson, a product of. Davidson High School,
who has an enviable record in local baseball
circles and will probably work the game
here. The team always has good hitters and
clean fielders, putting up a nice exhibition of
baseball,

Meadows or McInnis will probably draw
the pitching assignment for the Wildcats,
the other taking a position in the outfield in
case Johnston is unable to fill his position.
The remainder of the team will probably line
up as they have been reviewed.

BASKETBALL CAPTAIN
FOR ’28-’29

Pritchett, Basketball Captain

Stanley Cofall is
New Deacon Coach

Wake Forest College, 6ne of Davidson’s
sister members in the’ Big Five, has recently
elected a new football coach to succeed James
Baldwin, the Deacon’s guiding hand for the
last two years. With the appointment of
Stanley B. Cofall, former Notre’ Dame
football star, and at one time all-American
back, to the position of head coach, athletics
at Wake Forest should take on a new aspect.
At a recent meeting of the Alumni Advisory
Board, held in Raleigh, Cofall was heartily
endorsed and his election was soon forth-
coming. He was given a student body wel-
come upon his arrival at Wake Forest, and
it seems that he is going to be very popular
at that institution.

Coach Cofall.will introduce*the far-famed
Notre Dame system to the camp of the
Deacons, thus making the second time that
Rockne’s system has found its way into
Carolina football, the University of North
Carolina already practicing it under the
leadership of Chuck Collins,

Town News

The Sorosis Club of Davidson was very
pleasantly entertained at’ the home of Mrs.
John Caldwell, of Concord road, last week.
Mrs. Caldwell and her sister, Mrs. C. K.
Cumming, were joint hostesses. The club
was fortunate in having as the speaker Mrs.
A. L. Kimball, author. and critic, president
of the Writers’ Club of Charlotte, who gave
a very interesting and instructive address on
“Writing From An Author’s Viewpoint.”

HEADQUARTERS
for

Correct Apparel for Men

We

have

F salion Park Suits

from $45 to $65

also

Finchley Hats at $8
