Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of
¥ Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication(must be in the hands

THE DAVI

DSONIAN eer

November 8, 1928.

THOSE PROFESSORS

American colleges and universities
are today crying aloud for radical
revaluation and reform, says Dr.
Glenn Frank, and upon the prompt-
ness and completeness of this reform
the future of American civilization
may in no small measure depend.

of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m., <
Monday: “Agonymegs articles will Dr. Frank charges that profes-
not be published. f
sors, among other things, do not
Editor-in-Chief ;
qo OWELE. aoe "Haiinese Manager know how to cross the “bridge be-
EDITORIAL STAFF tween textbooks and students ;” and
A o ete peeeee mee rere Editor that there is a “constant temptation
Bh v VO te : Be REL I itee to deal only with the heads of stu-
ANG ie st. ‘di 3 \ ;
a A Nea Boulet) Editor | Cents, leaving their bodies and their
De ERR AN --~,Feature Editor) spirits undisciplined and — unin-
|: L, BROWN.......-..------Assistant Editor | cryired.”
CR. LAKE... Associate Editor | SDIFEC. : ;
PR at) 7) See ee “Associate Editor] “This college president is correct in

AFF

BUSINESS ST.
L. A. MILLS. _.....-.--Asst. Bus, Mgr.
FE. H. McCALL saul Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE ..Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R, F. SLOOP. Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS Subscription Mer.
H. McLBAN ‘wiacaek ‘ Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGTON.---- Solicitor
A, CANNON pais dab Solicitor
i D. MAJORS......-.-.-- Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Ti Us, BV isecaspcess ccasesucssageecsabrealdent
R. W. McDERMID_... ..Vice- President
EK. 8S, HEEFNER_...----- -Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN RESTON
C,H. DUBOSE RAGIN
i R, GRAHAM
Rk. W. KIRKPATRICK

Ss. SW
V.

na

. H. LONG S.| WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOV. 8, 1928

The Davidsonian
Wants

—to praise that team for a great
fight against the Cadets.

—those ’Cats to be “ready” when
they tackle the Wolfpack Sat-
urday.

—to commend Ernest Milton’s
alumni work and his new pub-
lication, The Davidson Alum-
nus.

—to thank all who assisted in any
way whatsoever with the enter-
tainment of the press conven-
tion delegates last week.

—to congratulate Kendrick Prit-
chett and Allan Frew upon their
successful writing and speaking
undertakings, respectively.

AFTER THE NOISE OF
BATTLE

the most
heated presidential campaign in his-
tory comes the tenth anniversary of
the signing of the armistice which
terminated the World War, the most
terrible war of all time.

Close on the heels of

In 1918 the mind of the people
was war-conscious and understood
things only as they dealt either dis
rectly or indirectly with the great
conflict; for the past months the
American public has been interested
in nothing, to any appreciable de-
gree, which did not pertain to the
political struggle.

The past campaign has wrought
much that is evil. Many friends, un-
able to maintain their level-headed-
ness, have parted because of their
inability to recognize the rights of
another to his views. They will
soon see, however, as they realize
~ that this is a democracy, that wheth-
er or not their choice was the peo-
ple’s choice, personal prejudices
must be submerged and allegiance
must be pledged whole-heartedly to
the new leader, Herbert. Hoover, a
man of proven ability, and of force-
ful and impassioned character,

With the approach of the tenth
Armistice Day, people will turn
from thoughts of hatred and ignoble
acts prevalent in the campaign, to
think together once more as they
condemn war and strife; they will
give thankful expression to their
heartfelt joy that the past year has
seen another stumbling block placed
in the path of the great god War in
the Kellogg-Briand pact; and they
will give praise to a Power guiding
the destiny of men.

In the matter of cleverness, in pref-
erence.to the Chinese, we nominate the
fellow who first thought of press con-
ventions. If the visitors enjoyed being
here as much as the hosts enjoyed hav-
ing them, well—we wanted to start co-
education. Good lookers too, n’est-ce
pas?

that the tendency is in this direc-
tion; that the associations between
teacher and pupil are not as intimate
as they once were; that professors
are more concerned, often, with af-
fairs on the outside and irrelevant to
college activity than with their teach-
ing proper; and, finally, that they, so
long as the student fulfills his re-
quired amount of work, reads suffi-
cient parallel, doesn’t cut too many
classes and does his best to look and
act intelligently on class, feel that
they have catned their pay check for
the month and are perfectly content.

Dr. A. H. Quinn, of the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania faculty, dis-
cerns improvement in the manner of
teaching, as he writes in the Century
Magazine, and so he and Dr, Frank
might find grounds for argument.
Dr. Quinn thinks that the profes-
fsor’s work begins and ends in the
classroom, He thinks that all means
should be bent toward the success of
the recitation, Older men, says he,
speak of their teachers with more
affection; the younger, with more
This.is due, he believes, to
the more efficient teaching of the

respect.

present time.

“Part of the time in the eighties
and nineties was spent in keeping
order,” he declares, “But now the
teacher can devote his entire energy
to presenting his subject in a proper
manner, He must prepare it more
carefully than his predecessor did.
He is alive every minute of the hour,
viving his best.”

Dr: Quinn has a higher regard for
classroom efficiency with no em-
phasis whatever any outside
counsel or association between pro-

on

fessor and student than for a some-
what lower standard
coupled with the fellowship feature.
His idea, if the interpretation is cor-
rect, is that everything which the
student seeks and needs may

classroom

be
found in class.

Davidson's attitude is more or less
in line with Dr. Frank's opinion.
Here, it is the custom to divide the
four classes into sections under the
direction of some member of the
faculty who is responsible for that
group. That professor is the advisor
and the counsellor; he is the one
whom that student who needs aid
should feel free to approach with his
problems, for that is his duty and a
privilege which he delights in ful-
filling.

There is a degree of hesitancy
now, unlike former days when asso-
ciations were more-intimate between
the groups, in using these men for
this purpose; there is a feeling that
they should be regarded as classroom
instructors and nothing more.

Along this line, the Oklahoma
Daily opines that “most. professors
are both interested and interesting.
They have a youthful outlook be-
cause their entire work is with
youth, and_it is their privilege to
guide as well as to instruct. Being
a little older, a good bit wiser, and
perhaps a trifle sadder than the stu-
dent, the professor can understand
the trend of thought and behavior of
the younger, the more foolish, the
more joyful,”

SOLE OWNER OF MY NAME

The worth of “expressive and
catchy titles in increasing the=value
of books and essays has recently
been appraised by a lecturer at the
college. The worth of a powerful
name in achieving. the seemingly im-

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot

By W. K. Pritchett

Something over four centuries
Christopher Columbus received the equiv
alent of about $320 for
America. The present wealth of
300. to 325 billion dollars.
value of this country has made an enor
mous increase, but we can better under

neers, and’ the less spectacular but never

and cities.

Two weeks ago Capt. C. B. D. Collyer
pilot, and Harry Tucker, owner, crossec

minutes,
famed
and fog. Thus two more fliers have join-

If someone could find a way of overcom-
ing fog for aviation he would perform an

humanity. Fog is the outstanding obstacle
to aviation which cannot be overcome by
technical engineers,

It is announced that the Chinese Gov-
ernment has appointed Henry Ford, Prof,
J. W. Jenks, Owen D. Young, Prof. Ed-
win R. A, Seligman and Robert N. Harp-
er as honorary advisers to China during
the reconstruction period. In this period
of reconstruction China needs good, sound
principles to work on to help her throw
off the old weather-beaten customs and
work. May
these men as well as others play an impor-
tant part in making China a progressive,
modern nation,

turn to new reconstructive

And now The Outlook comes forward
with the statement that Sacco and Vanzetti
were innocent of the crime for which they
were electrocuted, This c6ntenton is ac-
companied by a lengthy proof, along with
another man’s.confession, with a criticism
Mf it. This proof has been’ submitted by
the editor of the Outlook to the governor
of that state for his consideration. It re-
mains to be seen whether this statement
will bring a revival of demonstrations in
favor of the convicted men and their doc-
trine.

Last week the Paramount moving pic-
ture corporation ordered a number of
rubber beads, pearls, and jewelry to be
used by its stars and extras. This step
had to be taken to check the clashing and
roaring of the jewelry while sound pic-
tures were being taken.

At the University of Cincinnati an idea
for introducing a new course has been
considered, This course would be called
“mopology” and would be along the lines
of janitorship. It would take up efficiency,
in keeping corners clean, looking after the

furnace economically, and other such
forms of work,
Benito Mussolini has announced that

foreign words such as “club,” “cocktail,”
and “trolley” which have crept into Ital-
ian, shall be expelled from the language.

possible has recently been demon-
strated by a citizen of the South.

Two years ago the people of the
State of Tennessee were faced on
every hand by bold and bitter politi-
cal advertisements signed, “Clarence
Saunders—Sole Owner My
Name.”

A few years ago, Mr. Saunders
was not only the sole owner of his
name, hut his name. was his sole
property. The organized and owner
of thé famous “Piggly-Wiggly”
store had been deprived of every
cent of his millions. A beautiful
“pink palace” nearing completion
had to go into the hands of the re-
ceiver,

of

right to use his name.

000.

Name.” —F. D, M.

ago

discovering
the
United States has been estimated at from
The economic

stand this increase when we consider the
work and sacrifice contributed by the pio-

theless important part that was played by
settlers who built homes, villages, towns

the continent from New York to Los An-
gles in the record time of 24 hours and 51
Last week they tried for an-
other record by a west to east flight.in the
Yankee Doodle, but crashed to
their death in Arizona in a blinding rain

ed the ranks led by Nungesser and Coli.

immeasurable service to aviation and to

In a court fight this man won the

Now, only a few years since, an
announcement is made that Clarence
Saunders has formed a corporation
backed by 20 eastern capitalists with
resources amounting to $200,000,-

A great section of the country is
already covered with stores and soon
the entire United States will be dot-
ted with the chain stores of this or-
ganization, and in front of each
branch will be painted, “Clarence
Saunders — Sole Owner of My

Have you read that extraordinary
story a b our the donkey of Va-
lencia? As that donkey, pulling a
cart containing his master and mis-
tress, arrived in the middle of a cross-
ing, he planted himself firmly on the
rails and refused to be moved. A train
smashed the cart, killed the two peas-
ants and did not spare the donkey.
Victor Hugo tells of a similar donkey
in “The Legend of the Ages.” But
Hugo’s donkey was different. Though
beaten mercilessly by his ownerg, he
refused obstinately to advance, for his
next step would have crushed a toad
that was sitting in the middle of the

{/road, eyeing him with melancholy
blinks, Victor Hugo’s ass had a rea-
son. Baalam’s ass had an even more

powerful motif of resisting the violent
urgings of its mastef. An angel barred
the way, and the donkey alone saw
him. But what about the donkey of
Valencia? We have always cham-
pioned the sweetness, the patience and
even the intelligence of the donkey.
But this donkey of Valencia threatens
to destroy our faith. What was going
on on in his brain when the train came
roaring by? That we _ shall
know, and still therein lies probably
his only excuse.

never

Many candidates, now out of the
race, wish they got more out of it.

Next Sunday, November 11, Poland
celebrates its tenth birthday anniver-
sary. It was on the original Armistice
day in 1918 that Poland, ater having
been divided for more than a century
among Russia, Austria and Germany
again became an independent nation.
Americans should entertain great in-
terest in the life of this resurrected
nation. Most of the $70,000,000 loan
that has put Poland on a firm financial
footing came from the United States.
This country furnishes 16 per cent
of all Polish imports, ranking second

to Germany only, In_ size, Poland,
with 150,000 square miles, is sixth
among European countries. It has a

population of approximately 30,000,000,
a total exceeded only by Russia, Ger-
many, France and Italy.

America’s traditional friendship for
Poland from the time of the
American revolution, when two young
Poles, Kosciuzko and Pulaski, gave
their services to General Washington
and commanded Amerjcan troops.

dates

The war and election in Nicaragua
are over. The Marines had the arms
and the rebels the legs.

The American lumber industry, so
ruinously devastated until recent en-
actment of’ federal laws, may well take
a lesson from Poland. Poland’s lum-
ber industry, based on timber lands
covering 52,000 acres, was begun in the
loth century. A tree must be 90 years
old before it is cut. Their entire forest
area is more than 22,000,000 acres.
Congress sits by the Potomac in-
stead of the Schuylkill because of bugs.
Dr. R. C. Williams, Jr., president of
the American Entomological Society,
says Washington was selected as the
capital of the United States instead of
Philadelphia because of ravages of
mosquitoes carrying yellow fever. All
of which goes to show that even
“skeeters” make history.

Editor’s Note: This department is
provided for those who care to give
vent to their feelings along almost any
line. Just so long as the writing con-
forms with the Faculty rules imposed
on publications and the author is
known to the editor—signature pre-

ferred—the article will be published.

OPEN FORUM

HOW TO BUM, IN ONE
LESSON
Mr. Editor:

I should like to submit the following

code of ethics for students who “bum”
rides to and from Davidson:
1. Never infringe upon a motorist's
hospitality by crowding upon him more
students than he expected or than he
is willing to carry.

2, To sit in a man’s car, as his
guest, and make fun of him behind
his back is unpardonable,

3. If someone is on the road, look-
ing for a ride when you arrive, it is,
to say the: least, selfish and tactless to
force your company upon him with-
out an invitation. One man stands a
hundred per cent better chance of get-
ting a ride than two.

4. It is not a slick trick to sneak
around and take a position on the road
above a man who was there before
you. It is both unethical and boorish.

5. Always remember that Davidson
is being judged by your conduct.

One of the “Bums.”

lingers on. One of the purposes of this

ple’s Conference.

Gentlemen !”

guest.

Immediately

journalist into a closer personal relationship.
Every Davidson Delegate and many who were peekers-
through-the-key-hole at the Convention formed very pleasant companionship
with many journalists—those of the fairer species.
are glad it’s over. Not that we are adverse to the charms of fair spreaders of
the printer’s ink, but it Was awfully embarrassing on passing these dames on
the campus and unconsciously greeting them with the old, familiar, “Hi,
If we did it once, we did it as many times as an editor uses
plural I’s in a column of a so-called editorial.

Davidson’s Most Progressive newspaper enjoyed their company and ap-
preciated the service of Charlotte (N. C.) merchants in helping entertain our

“My! It’s getting so a couple can’t neck in public any more
without being stared at scmething terrible.”

“The boy friend and I have solved that problem.
a suitcase and go down to the Grand Central Station.”

We take

—Carnes. ret

6 ee

Cut Courtesy College Humor

THE BULL PEN
By Dave Anderson

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Convention is over, but the malady

convention was to draw the collegiate
It did. Just like a Young Peo-

Personally, though, we

Roses are blue,
Violets are pink,

after

The thirteenth drink,

—Virginia Reel.

“It’s all right to know your onions,

Praises to St. Patrick, the election

weeping over the results.

of police.
us up.

Thank you.

becase it had to be tipped.”
First Collegiate—‘Whatsa matter;

out saying “Stop” every sentence,”

SAYINGS OF SOLOMON, THE COLLEGIATE

but don’t dare breath them to a soul.”

SOMETHING FROM THE BRIEF CASE

(the one for President of the land of

the socalled free and the would-be-brave) is over. We haven’t found a soul
Everyone says, “Well, I thought so,” and “It was
just like I said,” and seem to be glad that the radio broadcasting stations will
have something besides bull on the air.
So let the broadcasting stations have their music, stock reports, football re-
sults, etc., and pen. all the BULL up and address it to: “Yours for bigger and
better bulls.” And we don’t mean the committee on stock raising or the chief
If you're ever in C-o-n-s-t-a-n-t-i-n-o-p-l-e look

Everything in its place, is the idea.

Both beautiful and dumb, my own true love must be, y
Beautiful, so U'll love her; dumb, so she'll love me.

QUOTATIONS FROM THE BISHOP

“We agree with our Scotch friend who never took a drink from a bottle

KOPY-KATTED

girl not coming?”

Second Nut—“Aw, she’s coming, but she can’t even send a telegram with-

A prominent funeral establishment in
who desire a weekly humorous magazine.

jokes?

Trying to make the patients die laughing ?

a large Southern city sends free to those
What's the big idea, we'd like to know?
Or die from.sheer disgust at their old

Contemporary Thought

UPON CHAPEL GOING

Daily Trojan: “I Need Thee Every
Hour.” Such were the words which rang
out in chapel today. Contrary to organ-
ized opinion around the campus, our
chapel services are regularly attended ‘by
many who made this brief service of a
hymn, prayer and meditation with a brief
address as much a part of their daily work
as attending any class. Since compulsory
chapel has been abolished, there is not a
trace of any childish stunts or reverence.
However, one can see all types. the ex-
tremely religious, the curious, the foreign
student, the freshman who was compelled
to go by some Squire, the girl and fellow
who wish each other’s company, but don’t
possess a car to park in for 25 minutes.

Religious life has always played an
important role in the life of a university.
From medieval Paris, Louvain and Ox-
ford to the New World of Harvard and
Yale and much later to S. C., religion has
been the cornerstone. It is a well-known
fact that Notre Dame's teams, generally
ong by one and on their own volition, go
to their famous shrine before any game—
not that they may win, but that their per-
sonal honor may be kept representing
their Alma Mater.

Southern California is really a heritage
of all of this religious thought of the ages.
Though severed definitely from any reli-

gious institution, we have more spiritual
welfare and brotherliness than can be
found in any State university.

BOOTLEGGING

Daily Kansan: The worm has start-
ed on its way through our new quiz
books. Bootlegging in quizzes has be-
gun. A student who came to the Uni-
versity with a fair record of accom-
plishment had saucer eyes when an
upperclassman asked him for help in
one of his first hour quizzes.

College is the hardest part of life.
We work hard spending father’s
money and driving his car, and drop
in at the library once in a while. Thus
we prepare ourselves for the market-
ing of peanuts or the measurement of
Sunday suits as a profession.

A pessimistic view perhaps but the
old Spanish custom exists here as
well as in other universities. When
students have such high ideals, the
Professors’ joy must be unconfined.

College is an activity the average
student entered because everybody
jelse was “doing” it. The motto is to
{get by with as little work as possible
and get the average that will get you
{in an organization. College is a side-
show, as one father said, “My son is
attending the Beta Eta fraternity.”

Therefore we have the problem of
, bootleg information in quizzes.

