,

TieDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 29, 1928

No. 25

DEBATERS OF SOUTHERN _ Well Known Authority
TRIP RETURN VICTORS
OF EMORY AND SEWANEE

Though Losing to Florida by One Vote the

Wildcat Delegation

Win From Emory

tor First Time in Six Years

With a record of two victories and one de-
feat to their credit, H. T. Powell and Tyree
Dillard returned Monday from the Southern
debating trip, after meeting teams from
Florida, Sewanee, and Emory Universities. |

On’ Tuesday night the Davidson team lost |
by a two to one decision to Roberts and
Conner, of the University of Florida. ‘The |
losers upheld the affirmative side of the
question: ‘Resolved, That the United States |
should cease to protect ty force of arms |
capital in foreign lands, except after formal |
declaration of war.” The judges’ verdict at
Gainesville was a reverse of the decision,
made by the audience, several weeks ago,
when Kell and Pritchett defeated the Flor-
ida debaters in Shearer Hall.

At Sewanee, Tenn., the Davidson debaters
met and defeated the University of the South
by two to one. Here the visiting contestants
also upheld the affirmative of the. same query
used at Florida.

Moving on to Atlanta, Cox and Brown, of
Emory University, were met and defeated,
the judges rendering a unanimous decision
for the visitors. This is the first time in the
six years that the two colleges have been
debating that Davidson has come away vic-
torious. :

This concludes the debating schedule for
the year. The Southern trip, from the point
of view of wins and defeats,’ was the most
successful. of the two extensive tours made.
On the Northern trip, Grady and W. K.
Pritchett lost to Hampden-Sidney and the
University of Pittsburgh, and debated to a
no-decision with George Washington Uni-
versity, at Washington, D. C. At home, Kell
and L. K. Pritchett have been most success-
ful.

National Honorary Frat
Will Meet Here in April

for Physics Discussions

Two-Day Program Arranged by.
Mother Chapter for Visiting

State Sec’y of “Y” —
Speaks at Vespers

“The Attractiveness and Exclusiveness of |
Jésus” was the theme of a message delivered |
Sunday evening at “Y" vespers by J. Wilson |
Smith, State Secretary of the Young Men’s |
Christian Association of North Carolina.

The Scriptural basis of the talk is found |
in the passage: “Seek ye first the Kingdom
of God and all these things shall be added
unto you.” This invitation was given to all
classes and kinds of people who had been
drawn by the force of His personality.

Jesus had the most attractive personality
of His time and He has been the center of |
attraction in every age from that day until
the present time. Napoleon, banished to St.
Helena, declared that the wonderful de-
mands which He made of the human heart
and the way in which these demands were
granted were striking proofs of His divinity.

What were the factors which combined
to make His personality attractive ?

In the first place, His teaching of the Bible
has not changed through the course of cen-
turies, because He summed up all moral truth
which had existed in the past, in His own
day, and which will exist in all future ages.

His sinless life was another source of at-
traction, for here was One so pure that His
own brothers were glad to be leaders in ad-
vancing His Kingdom.

The significance of His death and resur-
rection has always drawn men, and was a
forceful way to show them that God was a
God of love. This quality of love was the

(Continued on page 5)

Frat Averages Are
1 Given By Registrar

For the fall term 1927-1928 the highest
composite average for a national fraternity
at Davidson was made by the Kappa Alpha
fraternity, according to a report given by the
registrar. The average for the fraternity

on Medicine Speaks to
Davidson Student Body

Dr. Davison, Head of Duke Medical
School, Considers Medicine as

Life Work
FORMERLY OFHOPKINS

Week of Medicine Last of Voca-
tional Guidance Series

On Tuesday night Dr. W. C. Davison,
dean of the Duke Medical School, addressed
over 150 students on medicine as a life pro
fession,

He opened his speech by recommending
two books for reading by all) students in-
terested in medicine. They were ‘The
Physician,” by Dr. M. VT. Finney, M.D., and
“The Young Man and Medicine,” by Dr. L.
F. Barker, M.D., LL.D.

He next gave a running account of the
development of medicine. It was first prac-
ticed by the priests of the ancient religions.
The first great steps in medical lines were
taken when the Catholic Church received the
bodies of hung criminals to be worked on.

The next great forwarding of the field of
medicine came with the discovery of circu-
lation by Harvey. A hundred and fifty years
passed before the discovery of the micro-
scope, after the microscope came the re
searches and the consequent discoveries by
Pasteur, upon modern
medicine is now based.

whose discoveries

He who is planning to devote himself to
medicine must that Medicine
constantly growing and ever-broadening field,
which will require him to keep himself in-
formed at all times.

realize is a

Dr. Davison showed that there are many
sides and divisions to the field of medicine,
among them being the general practitioner,
the specialist, the laboratory expert, the X-
ray aud research worker, the teacher of pub-
lic health and hygiene. During the lecture
Dr. Davison said that he believed that the
tendency in the medical field in this genera-
tion would be toward that of the first named
of the above list—the general practitioner,

(Continued on page 8)

Davidson

JOHN MELTON SUCCEEDS
-_ CHARLEY McRAE AS THE

PRESIDENT OF Y. M.C. A.

High Honor Won on Initial Ballot---Brown and

Long Elected Vice-Presidents on First

State Meet Again
Won By Charlotte

Charlotte High School's track team won
the annual invitation state meet here on Sat-
jurday, March 24th, by a 13 point margin.
The meet, which was sponsored by the Ath-

letic Association, had 12 entrants: Greens-
boro High ¢nded second with 29 points, while
New Hanover High School, of Wilmington,
turned in 26 points to place third.

The other entrants in the order they fin-
nished the meet with their scores, are as fol-
lows: High Point, 16; Statesville, 6 1-2;
Asheville, 4; Davidson, 3; Raleigh, 3; Ba-
rium Springs, 1 1-2; Salisbury, 1-2; Rock-
ingham and Lincolnton, Charlotte won with
a total number of 42 points, leaving the re-
mainder to be divided between their oppo-
nents. Wilmington put up a fine fight to
win with their four-man team, but couldn't
hold out in the numerous heats.

Farmer, Wilmington’s star dash man, won
all his heats both in the hundred and two
twenty, lacked one point of tying the high
scorer the meet, and would have
placed in the broad jump if he had not been
forced to run three heats in both the dashes.
It is said that Farmer had not been out for
practice in Wilmington this week due to sick-
The entire team from New Hanover
High “bummed” up through the country, as
their coach, a lawyer, was detained to try a
case on Saturday.

Thomas Brown was high scorer of the
mect with one first place and two seconds,
making a total of 11 points. Brown was
followed close by his Greensboro teammate,

(Continued on page 8)

of

ness.

Glee Club Completes

Very Successful Week-End Trip

Faculty Linguists
Enjoy Convention

Delegates | was 86.66. The second highest average was

On Tuesday, April’ 10th and 11th, delegates ,made by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fratern-

from the six chapters of Sigma. Pi Sigma, jity, and the third highest average by the

National Honorary Physics Fraternity, wilt | Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

convene with the mother chapter at Davidson |

The recent annual meeting of the North |
Carolina Educational Association which was
held in Raleigh on the 22nd, 23rd and 24th
of this month, was attended by 10 members

The averages for the fraternities is only

Converse Concert Marks Second
Successful One of Season—
Performance in Davidson
Soon

On last Friday night the Davidson Glee
Club appeared before a large and enthusi-

for the first biennial convention of the fra-| indicative of the final averages to be deter-!of the Davidson faculty.

ternity. The Alpha chapter, under the lead-
ership of T. E. Lothery, who is president,
and Prof. H. E. Fulcher, one of the officers
of the national organization, has arranged a
two-day program that promises am interest-
ing conclave for visiting delegates.

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded as a national
honorary fraternity in 1925, but its real his-
tory dates back to 1923, when the founding
came as a result of the realization of the
need of some organization in which members
of the faculty and students interested in
physics might be grouped together and to
manifest their interest in a discussion group.
The organization grew and the founders made
provisions for expansion. In 1925 the Beta
chapter at Duke was organized, in 1926 the
Gamma at Penn. State, and in 1927 Centen-
ary College of Louisiana, Furman University
of South Carolina, and William and Mary,
were granted the Delta, Epsilon and Zeta
chapters respectively.

The fraternity has by no means closed its
. (Continued on page 8)

ry

|mined at the end of the school year. The
| fraternity attaining the highest scholastic
javerage at this time will be awarded the
|Harper Interfraternity Scholarship cup,
| witiee is now held by the Phi Alpha chapter
of Beta Theta Pi.

The averages were high and the competi-
tion very keen for the fall term as the Kap-
pa Alpha scholastic average was only a
fraction of a point above that of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. The fraternities finished in
the following order: Kappa Alpha, 86.66;
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 86.12; Beta Theta Pi,
85.51; Kappa Sigma, 85.17; Pi Kappa Alpha,
84.91; Theta Upsilon Omega, 84.58; Phi
Gamma Delta, 84.42; and Pi Kappa Phi,
83.61.

The Harper Interfraternity cup since it
was presented in 1923 has been won by the
following fraternities: The Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity won it in 1924, the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity. in 1925, the Pi Kap-
pa Alpha fraternity in 1926, and the Beta

Theta Pi fraternity in 1927,

Eight of those going from Davidson were
in attendance-at the meeting of the Modern
Language Association of North Carolina,
this being a division of the State Educational
Association. Professor Fleagle was presi-
dent of the Modern Language group. Dr.
Watts gave a paper before the French sec-
tion of the ‘modern language meeting and
Dr. Vowles read another before the German
section, =

Another feature of the program was an/|

address by Dr. Lingle before the joint meet-
ing of the section on Higher Education of
the Association and the State Board of
Education.

All Davidson men who attended the meet-
ing report.a fine program throughout and
they were especially impressed by the ad-
dress of Dr. Judd, dean of the School of
Education at the University of Chicago.

One of the outstanding features before the
general meeting .was that of the First All-
State Orchestra which gave programs of 45

(Continued on page 5)

lastic audience at the high school auditorium
at Lincolnton, N. C. The audience was
probably one of the largest that has at-
tended one of the Glee Club performances
this year. The program was of peculiar in-
terest to the townspeople, as Jack Ramseur,
a Lincolnton boy, with his musical saw, was
one of the main features of the perform-
ance.

The Woman’s Auxiliary entertained the
club with a reception given immediately after
the performance. While in Lincolnton,, the
|members of the club were taken to various
homes where they were to be entertained
while in Lincolnton.

On Saturday night the Davidson songsters
performed before avery appreciative audi-
ence at Converse College, in Spartanburg,
S. C. Mrs. Cutlum, wife of Professor Cul-
lum, head of the music department, sang
two numbers which were enthusiastically re-
ceived by the audience. Other features that
gained approval were the baritone solo by R.
S. Lowrance; the string trio, composed of

(Continued on page 5)

and Third Ballots Respectively

| Johnnie Melton was elected president of
‘the Y. M. C. A. in the third major election
| of the studént body a week ago last Tuesday
' morning. Melton was elected on the first
) ballot from a field of tive men, The men
nominated were Johnnie Melton, Bill Hill,
Monroe Gilmour, Dick Flynn, and Glenn
Frye. The first four were nomi-
nated by the “Y” Cabinet and announced on
Monday morning by Charley McRea and at

named

‘4

that time Glenn Frye was nominated from
the floor. The first ballot was run on Tues-
day morning and at this time Johnnie Melton
was elected by a large majority. The clec-
tions for the vice-presidency were held at
the same time. Six men were nominated by
the “Y" Cabinet for this office; they were
Frank Brown, ZebLong, Murray Christian,
Carl Allan
/Frew. Frank Brown was elected first vice-
H

president on the same ballot with Johnnie

Pritchett, Russell Nunan, and

Melton, and on this ballot) Christian and

Frew were dropped. A run-off was held on
Wednesday morning between Zeb Long, Carl
Pritchett and Russell Nunan; on this ballot
Nunan was eliminated, and on Thursday
morning the final ballot of the “Y” elections
was held between Zeb Long and Carl Prit-
chett, Zeb Long winning on this ballot the
second vice-presidency of theeY, M. C. A,
Melton succeeds Charley McRae in this
office,
to be an even higher honor than the presi-
Melton stated

which is considered by some students

dency of the student body.

(Continued on page 5)

Efird’s Banquet is
| Scene of Sophomores’
Annual Eve of Feasting

Banquet Well Attended—Brown
Acts as Toastmaster

C,,

With Frank Brown, of Salisbury, N.
presiding as toastmaster, the Sophomore
banquet held in Charlotte last week was re-
ported to be a complete success. Efird’s
dining hall was the scene of the revelry
which was held on Tuesday night, March
20th.

Informality which began with the short
word of welcome by Carl Pritchett, presi-
dent of the class, was the key to the whole
affair, otherwise characterized by much
music, wit and food, and several speeches.
The guests of honor were Mr. Clarence
Kuester, business manager of the Chamber
of Commerce of Charlotte, who was the host
of the class at their banquet last year; Mr.
Ernest Milton, alumni secretary; Charles
McCrae, president of the Y. M, C. AY
Prof. K. J. Foreman and Dr. Watts, of the
faculty. Several officials of the student
body were expected to be present but failed
to arrive. The attendance of the class was
excellent, 120 of the 131 members being
present.

The program was enlivened by musical
selections by the class orchestra, consisting
of-Charley Orr, director, Sam Coker, H. R.
Mobley, Charley Yancey, W. A. Nicholson
and A, J, Thompson. Charley Orr rendered

(Continued on page 5).
