THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

Varied Attractions Are
Planned by Junior Class
Committees at Work Promise

Festive Occasion During
Junior Speaking in April

April the twenty-seventh is the date
set for the annual Junior Speaking pro-
gram. Activities sponsored by the Junior

. Class will feature for two days, Friday
and Saturday, April 27, 28. Originally
Junior Speaking was simply an oratorical
content for members of the Junior class,
but has developed into quite an elaborate
affair, being a time for house parties,
athletic contests, receptions, and dra-
matic presentations. It was voted this
year not to make the program as full as
usual, but it is still well-rounded. Friday
night in Shearer Hall the Junior Orator-
ical will be held.
there will be a track meet, immediately
followed by a reception for the faculty,

guests, and the student body. Saturday
evening there will be a performance
sponsored by the Junior class. The Red

and Black Masquers will give a dramatic
precntation and the Glee Club will sing
on this occasion. A play will be pre-
sented, written by some member of the
Junior class. It will be chosen from a
number of plays which will be submitted

by a committee headed by Bob Coving-
ton,

The program was arranged by com-
mittees, the heads of which were appoint-
ed by Mac King, president of the Junior
class. Ramond Lake is in charge of the
special issue of The Davidsonian which
is to be published. W. K. Pritchett is
chairman of the Oratory Committee, Bob
Kell of the Reception Committee, and
Bob Covington of the Dramatic Club.
Nelson Myers is head of the committee
which will keep the program on an ec-
onomic basis, The Finance Committee
is sponsoring . performances by the glee
club of Converse and Queen’s Colleges
within the next six weeks. Further de-
tails of. the program will be developed
by these committees.

THE PLANETARIUM

An Instrument to Illustrate the
Movements of Stars

By James Stokley, Science Service —
Staff Writer

Imagine a very ‘clear night sky—the
sort of a sky that one sees from’a high
mountain, far from the lights and dust of
a city. And as imagination can have
full reign, imagine this-sky can be altered
at the will of the observer, It can be
made to appear as the sky would be seen
from any part of the earth, from north
pole to the south, or as it has appeared
thousands of years ago, or will appear in
the distant. future.

Precisely this same effect can be ob-
tained with a wonderful new instrument
installed in a number of European cities.
A few years ago travellers returning from
Germany told of this instrument — the

Saturday afternoon |’

N.C.C.W.Honor Roll
Largest in Years

Greensboro, N. C., Feb. 12, (CP) — Miss
Mary Taylor Moore, registrar of N. C.
College for Women, reported that 162 stu-
dents, about one-tenth the total popu-
lation, have their names on the honor
list for the first semester of the year
1927-28, because of the excellence of the
work done during that semester. No stu-
dent who averaged below a two is named
on the honor roll.

The count of honor students according
to classes is as follows: freshmen 22,
sophomores 36, juniors 42, seniors 59, one
graduate and two special students are also
on the list. Five of these have the signal
honor of making no grade lower than
one, the highest given. Three of these
five are seniors and two are sophomores. |
The number of collegians on this semes-
ter’s honor roll is somewhat larger than
was on that of the last semester for the
year 1926-27, Last year the count of the
classes ran; freshmen 22; sophomores
32, juniors 40, seniors ’50, and one special,
totaling 145 to this year’s 162,

planetarium—on exhibit in the great
Science Museum at Munich, Since then
a dozen German cities, including Berlin,
Hamburg and Dusseldorf, have installed
them, Vienna also has one, while others
have been ordered for Copenhagen and
Moscow.

The instrument, the result of the in-
genuity of Dr. W. Bauersfeld, an engineer
at the Zeiss Optical Work at Jena, as a
glorified stereopticon. It is set up in the
center of a 90 foot dome lined with white
cloth. A battery of over a hundred lenses
project the images of the stars on the
dome. These lenses are located around
the two large bulbs at each end of the in-
strument. Motors turn the instrument to
simulate the effect of the earth’s rotation,
while other motors turn it another way to
bring into position the stars seen from
other latitudes. In the cylindrical part
of the machine are projectors for the sun,
the moon, and the five planets visible to
the naked eye. An .extremely accurate
mechanism moves these planet projectors
so that their images on the dome duplicate
the motions of their celestial prototypes.
But motions which take years to complete
in the heavens, can be run through in a
few minutes with the planetarium, thereby
explaining their motion far better than
thousands of words.

The first. planetarium will probably be
installed in the United States in the near
future. Though the complete installation
in America would cost $200,000, including
the building, as an educational exhibit it is
unequalled. In Germany, small admis-
sion fees are charged.

—Science Service.

“Am I to understand,” asked Reggie in-
dignantly, “that you are laughing at my
moustache?”

“Excuse me,” giggled Edna, “but every
time you shut your mouth, it looks like

you wink.”

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock cf

New Orthophonic Victrolas

Brunswick Panatropes

Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday

AComplete Line of RCA
Radios from $69.50 to $895.

Parker-Gardner Co.

and

Also

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
: Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS |
Mooresville, N. C. ;
_CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS:

|

{
}

“Y” Column

Graduate school catalogs and booklets
giving information in regard to the va-
rious schools. of the country, with ex-
hibits of the three main seminaries in the
South, are now on show at the Y, and
ought to prove of use to those who are
interested in graduate work of any sort.
Drop by and make use of these cata-
logs.

coe Yate
The Vocational Guidance Institute got
off to a good start, and the officers are
well pleased with the interest shown by
the student body. It is hoped that much
benefit will come from this project, for
then the work of the Y will be of vital
intetest to many more men than it has
ever been before.
oceans
A big shipment of books from the As-
sociation Press has come in and will be
for sale at the Y rooms. Among the lot
are many well-known books, recognized
for their value and worth, including “The
Manhood of the Master,” Moffet’s “New
Testament,” and many others. See if
you ‘couldn’t use some of these really
worth-while volumes,
d fat Pe
Dr. Green has definitely decided to come
and lead the group of spring services.
These meetings will start the first Sun-
day in March and will be the annual
Life Work Campaign for ‘the second
term. More will be given about these
services a little later.
The ladies of Davidson, who have al-
ways supported the Y in every way pos-
sible, recently showed that their interest
in the Y. M. C. A. has not declined any,
by giving the Y a shower ‘of useful
articles and equipment, to aid the social
side of its ‘work, which includes plates,
cups, silverware, etc. The Y has also
procured a hot-plate, and is now offering
it to the student body to use for little
informal parties, and the like. It is things
like this that can make the life on the
campus more pleasant and enjoyable, and
it is with this in view that the Y is at-
tempting to give fellows the opportunity
to take advantage of these things. Don’t
have any hesitancy in asking to use these
things, but go by and speak to Jim Apple-
by about it. , p

who appreciate

COMING AGAIN

/

Due to the fact that Dr. Wade C. Smith
will be unable to come to take charge_of
the Personal Work Conference, attempts
will be made to secure someone else, who
is fitted for that particular work. And
more than likely Dr. Luther Little, of
Charlotte, will be asked to come. Dr.
Little is a well-known minister and is a
most capable man, and will prove an able
substitute.

' SEN yas

Showing that Strouse line.

GWIN &

(pore rrr

S

[f You

effectively to the “seven ages of man”;

tation; and (c) English Bible.

or Bible School or training school where the Bible is more

Catalog and Information on request

|

(III III III III III III III rrr rrr rrr rere

This-is the
sixthina
series of
Advertisements y,

Are Going to be a. Preacher...

You will find at Union Theological
a place where the Bible is supreme
the indispensible book for
the task of making preachers.

VERY department of study deals with the Bible more or less
directly. For example, the professor of Systematic Theology
aims to present the cardinal doctrines of the Bible in an
_ articulated system of truth; the professor of Religious Education

endeavors to show how Biblical teachings can be brought home
; the professor of Church
History traces the ways in which the doctrines of the Bible have
worked themselves out in the Church on the field of history; and
the professor of Missions as set forth in the Bible, and then sur-
veys the operation of these Bible teachings in the missionary enter-
prises of the Church. Finally, three full departments of the Semi-
nary are concerned entirely with the direct teaching of the Bible:
(a) Old Testament Interpretation; (b) New Testament Interpre-
The Bible is thus the center of
the whole curriculum at Union, and there is no theological seminary

and where the students are required to study it more diligently.

Underwear ..- Shirts... Neck-
wear... Hosiery ... Mufflers
. «- Handkerchiefs . . . Pajamas

... Belts... Suspenders...
Gar*ers ... Jewelry ... all
Backed by our rigid guarantee.
which insures au-
thentic style and unfaltering
quality ... that’s what we
offer men of this community

better haber-

dashery. Let us assist you with
your selections for the
mew season.

The Tate Brown Company

FEBRUBRY 20, 21, 22

GALE HILLYARD

Let him show you the

New Spring Woolens

Monday, Tuesday. Wednesday February 20, 21, 22’
at Miss Minnie’s

O'NEAL

honored

III III III rrr |

_ _B.R.LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Union Theological Seminar

