THE

DAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSO

Vol. XV.

DAVI

LEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 23, 1928

DSON COL

-_—_-—__-___&,

N

SONIAN:

No. 20

Business as a Vocation |
is Discussed in Address

by H. Smith Richardson

Industry Should Strive Toward
Upbuilding of Nation

FORETELLS GREAT PROGRESS
Executive Head of Vick Chemical
Co., Says Business Has S«p-
planted Land as Basis of
Wealth

“North Carolina's great need today is for
business executives and for captains of in-
dustry,” declared H. Smith Richardson, out-
standing Southern capitalist. and executive
head of the Vick Chemical Company, of
Greensboro, in a stirring address to David-
son students last night, on the subject. of
business as a life work. Mr. Richardson was
the second speaker on the program of the
six weeks’ Vocational Guidance Institute be
ing conducted here for the benefit of students
who are making an effort to choose their
vocations,

“The Piedmont Carolinas are just begin
ning to be developed industrially.” he added.
“In the next 50 years progress will be greater
than that made during all of the past 200!
years. Who will control this ingustry #7 1i
you don’t, others will. There is a need here
which challenges youth with keen minds and
stout hearts.
to rise in the land—who will possess it ?

An empire of industry is going |
If

there is anything in this prophecy which stirs |
your blood, if you would do your part toward |

take the cultural education here in these clas-

re

— soa <

PLANS FOR FRATERNITY COURT

After three years of having houses located in town, the Board of Trustees recently accepted plans submitted by M. E.
Boyer, Jr., architect, of Charlotte, calling for construction according to the above sketclf with the cost being approxi-
building a great state, then I say to you. | mately $60,000. The location chosen by the trustees was that at the intersection of Concord Street and Stadium Road.

1

sic halls, then,go out ‘into the world. foal
simply look for a ‘job,’ but cut yourself of Request on Close

a province of industry—master that province, |

conserve your capital ,initiate your own busi-'|

ness—build, and if you build wisely, you will |
(Continued on page 8)

Second Issue of Cham. |

Shifts Outward Colors

|

- Acceded by Board

That the school term would end May
30, as stated in the. catalogue, was the
ruling passed by the Board of Trustees
meeting here last week. The catalogue
which was published last spring announe
ed that the school year would open Sep

Local Critic Reviews and Offers ‘tember 7, and close May 30. At a recent

Opinion on Recent Student
Literary Offerings

The current.issue of the CHAMELEON
as another case‘of old wine in almost new
bottles,
one old adage, it disproves another, for
the wine has not improved with this aging.
The fact remains butt the pleasant theory
is split in twain.

However, with all this imposing upon |

new and partially new backgrounds there
appear a few tastes of real excellent stu'f
—just the kind that attracts a finical per-
son. I found myself rereading. several
times Frank Hall’s SONG
SWAMPS. It is truly a refreshing breeze
which this Junior has sent our way. Hall
has been experimenting for some time on

sounds and euphonic phrases and this, to!

my mind, is his first successful attempt in
shaking off the shackles: of Sophomore
English. He is singing the low melodious

song of the animated lowlands, and with- |

al he has injected the necessary sprightli-
ness into his work.

I have praised Hall!’s piece without fear
of criticism for campus opinion has al-
ready stamped him with approval, but no
doubt, there are only a few who would
choose Editor Wharton’s THERE WERE
SI XGIRLS as one of the best offerings
of the magazine. I have Jong envied
Wharton his ability to set down upon
paper—prosaic cold paper—thoughts and
mental reactions—the very thing he has
so admirably done in this piece. Some
ask “What about the girls,” but I want
to know what that has to do with the
matter. Absolutely nothing, of course.

' (Continued on page 8)

jut to my mind, in examplifying |

OF THE)

|faculty meeting attention was called to
{the fact that the Board of Trustees for
|}many years past has required the com
|mencement exercises to be held the first
| Wednesday in June,

Changes .were accordingly made and
|notice was published by the Davidsonian
that the term would not end until June 5,
thereby adding one week to the usua!
_school year. Many members of the Sen-
ior Class, however, had previously made
»engagements, many of them for life time
work, beginning immediately after the
| date announced in the catalogue. They
, therefore filed a petition that they be re-
|leased at the stated time, and the Board.
|in accordange with its policy of aidingthe
|students in any reasonable way possible,
changed the date of graduation.

This means that exeaminations will be
}over Saturday, May 26, the baccalaureate
sermon coming on the following day;
class exercises held on Monday, May 28;

(Continued on page 5)

NOTED PREACHER HERE

Dr. Luther Little, pastor” of the
First Baptist’ Church of Charlotte.
author of “Manse Dwellers,” and one
of the most distinguished ministers in
the South, will conduct a Personal
Work Conference among the students
Monday and Tuesday next. He will
meet with the different groups inter-
ested in personal work during these
days, and Tuesday night there will be
an open meeting in the “Y” rooms for
all interested.

Mid-Winter Meeting of

Fraternities Moved to
Lot on Concord Street

Construction to Amount of $60,000
Called for

LOCATION ON CONCORD

Best Interests of College and Fra-
ternity Life Considered in Move,
State Officials

Prompted by desire to
college and fraternity life in such a man
ner as to emphasize the ideals and. tra-
ditions of the two, the Board of Trus-
tees of the college at its recont meeting

a

‘Oxford Honors to
be Awarded in Dec.

<

The 1928 election of Rhodes
| will be held on December 8, and students
lof this college must file their applications
with the Secretary of the State Committee
lof Selection before October 20, according,
from Frank
the

announcement
American

ito a recent

Aydelotte, Secretary to

scholars |

College Governing Body
Authorizes Innovations

Contract to be Let for Centra! Sec-
tion of Chambers

TREASURER MAKES RE

PORT
Summer School Planned — Frater-
nity Court Idea Accepted —Com-
pulsory Phys‘cal Tra‘n’ns for
Juniors and Seniors’

In what proved+to be one of the busiest
sessions in the past several vears, David;

son's Board of Trustees authorized sign:

ling of contraets for the remainder of
Chambers Building, a regular Summer
School construction of Fraternity Court,
made chanees as to membership of the
Roard. catled for an instructor in physical
treining and compulsory physical exercise
for juniors and.useniors not’ takine R. O
ToC, and considered other matters last

Wednesday

The most notable transaction was the

in semi annual MeEctING here

vw building commit

panthorization given t!

tee to let the costract forthe central unit
of Chambers building. The work on the
northern wing is already under avay and

the committee in clarme expects to com
mete arraneement for the beeinning of
construction of the amain section within
the next few weeks. The competion of

his Shoo.000 plont is expected by 10 ), and
will give Davidson one of the finest acad
sve baitd nes in the South

Hea Summer

six weeks’

School was au-
| ‘ : ;
thorized by the Board, with courses in
Mhelish, Bible, ceanomics, mathematies,

daall

A sub-committee was appoint-

Nictory, education an lanenaees and
| sciences,
led to complete detailed arrangements for
I this school.

Several minor changes were made in

(Continued on page 5)

Bishop Penick Presents
' Vivid Picture of Christ

Thoucht of Christ as Creator. Sus-

harmonize |

and President of Swarthmore

Trustees
College. |
|

tainer or Jude Insuffic’ent, Says
Prominent Episcopalian

A Rhodes scholarship, the most coveted
of all undergraduate awards, entitles the “What think ye of Christ?” (Matthew
holder to three years of study at Oxford 22:42), was the text of Bishop I. A. Penick’s
| University, with an annual. stipend of | message to the members of the Davidson Y.
4oo0lb $2,000) . M. C. Av at
are elected without examination on the} Shearer Hall. Bishop Penick is head of the
basis of their records in school and co!-| North Carolina diocese of the Episcopal

i < . .
(about Rhodds scholars Sunday evening. in

vespers

|

voted to set aside a portion of the col |
lege campus as a site for a unique fra- |
The of the
court will cost the college approximately |
$ho.000, will at the inter-
section of Concord Street and the Stadium |
Road. Eleven fraternity houses
central heating plant

their choice of studies.

ternity-court, construction To be eligible a candidate must be an

male of the United
States, between the ages of 19 and 25, and

unmarried citizen

Location be

must have completed at least his sopho-
and a
compose the
group of buildings which, it is believed,
will place the fraternities in an unparallel- |
ed position among, fraternities of Amer- |
ican colleges and universities.

jmore year in college before the time he
He must.then be one of
this

goes to Oxford.
the
tution in the competition.
ed on December 8, 1928, will go to Oxford

/in October, 10920.
This move will place the social organi- |

will

men chosen to represent insti

The qualities which will be considered

lege, and no restriction is placed upon, Church.

The
Professor Williams.
In-brief his message was as follows:
We must
doctrine the central thoughts and themes, or

speaker was introduced by

select from the great mass of.
we will find that we are like children on the
seashore who are bewildered as to which of
the beautiful shells are most desirable, or as
a Freshman entering college who cannot de-

Scholars seleet- | cide what course will be most beneficial to

him in future life.

Now we must take up the subject of moral

codes, This subject is too short to master

zations back on the campus as they wer« |in making the selection are literary and /|all, so the question that we must determine

several years ago when the social fra- | scholastic ability and attainments, quali-| is:

What shall we emphasize? Limiting

ternities were located in historic old Oak | ties of manhood, truth, courage, and moral |emphasis to mere self-culture will result in

and Elm Rows, which, it will be recalled, | force of character, and physical vigor as/| selfishness.

made a fine impression upon Dr. Shepard-! shown in outdoor sports or other ways
son, one of the United States’ foremost! [2xceptional athletic prowess is not essen-
fraternity leaders and educators, when he | tial to election.

first visited the campus several vears ago.! These scholarships were created by the

The, officials and trustees of the col- will of Cecil Rhodes, the famous South
lege have emphatically denied that the
new fraternity-court idea was approved
in a spirit of hostility toward the fra-
ternities, and insist that the real motive
behind the undertaking is one of friendli-
ness for the fraternity groups.

“Tt is regretted that certain newspaper
articles, which appeared following the
adoption of the plan by our Board of
: (Continued on pag 8)

African and capitalist. who

died in

statesman
1902, i

“T also desire to encourage and foster
an appreciation of the advantages which
I implicitly believe will result from the
union of the English-speaking
throughout the world, and to encourage in
the students from the ‘United States ...
an attachment to the country from which
(Continued on page 8)

pecples

Service without religion ‘is
superficial. Spirituality can easily degen-
erate into mysticism. Believing in only one
set of. truths will resu't in bigotry. There
is a danger that we may leave out truth in
forming a condensed analysis of the point of
emphasis for the Christian life.

Christianity is the life of God revealed by
Jesus Christ. We take the assumption that
God is love. If we should. merely think of
God as the Creator, He would be awe-inspir-
ing but He would not cause us to kneel in
worship. Neither would the thought of God
as our Sustainer or Judge really demand
our deepest love. We must think of God as”

(Continued on. page 5)
