4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

——

——

=—_

The Davidsonian

ember of North Carelina Collegiate Press
Me wy ara ‘ity 4 Norte Earores § Fh of. EER OT en
" Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

DED BY CLASS OF '15
ZRUNDED. Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.9 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
7 . m. day. Article .
ne a ie antec utes Gif et be published

from an unknown source
AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. ------.---.--------Editor-in-Chief
M. ‘PP. CRAWFORD -.............-....... Business Manager
L.

EDITORIAL STAFF

F. D, MILLER ibs Managing Editor
COMPRA UidlccusscoceblGce iacenasuues, Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT ..-_Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON . ews Editor

R. Pe Maieieksevutuhsrsceucpbened shed Associate Editor

C..R. LAKE
. B, MORIARTY
. K. PRITCHETT -

set Cerare Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY....-._-.-- Assistant Business Manager

8. J. ----Assistant Business Manager

Ww. -Assistant Business Manager

P. J. Subscription Manager
lation

B eae Solicitor

+ Galini
FE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB :

. L. ELY ----President
k Ww. eDERMID Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER ......-..-....-....-.----Secretary-Treasurer
» P. R. ALDERMAN } V. MIDDLETON

D. P. ANDERSON . T. NUNAN

S. R. COKER 4 PRESTON

Cc. H. DUBOSE . C. RAGIN

A, FREW D. RUSK

YR D, TY STOKES

. R. GRAHAM 4,

. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER

K Ms NG DE S. S. WILEY
DE. Rese -N. C. C. P. Reporter
SAM WILEY N. C. C. P. Reporter

EDITORIAL

The Davidsonian W ants

—to know when the Norris Trophy election is to
be held.

—to thank the Y. M. C. A. for securing Gipsy
Smith to speak here.

—to voice approval of the refusal of the Senior
gift by the Faculty.

—to thank all who contributed to the success of
Junior Speaking.

—try-outs for feature editor and columnist of this
publication before next Saturday.

—to commend the Forensic Council for changing
the manner of election of its governing offi-
cials.

—to congratulate the Duke CHRONICLE, N. C. C.
W.’s PINE NEEDLES and the Duke AR-
CHIVE upon winning first place in the state
in their respective fields.

—to apologize for its more or less unsettled state
during this period of experiment and trials in
preparing to give its readers the best volume
in its history.

—to know what you want.

Golf may be a Scotch game bitt ithe way ‘in
which it is played on the local links is proof
enough that it can be played without,

D

Comes to us the story of the woman who
had her husband’s teeth pulled so that he
couldn’t bite the gold off the saucers. |

And when mechanical “men” are put on
the market students will be able to sleep
longer in the mornings if they have properly
directed their “men” concerning the chapel
route,

D

Due to error, the staff for the Junior
Week issue of The Davidsonian was omitted
from the mast-head. This very creditable

. production was edited and financed through

the efforts of Raymond Lake as editor and
Sam Allison, business manager,
D

Davidson will have opportunity to give
proof of her hospitality when the North Car-
olina Collegiate Press Association: meets
here next fall. Dick proved to be a most
gracious host last week, providing a most
enjoyable program and extending a warm
and wholehearted welcome.

WHY THE “Y”?

One of the most notable of a long list of
achievements of the local Y. M. C. A. is the
recent publication of the booklet entitled
“Why the “Y”? Those in charge of Dayid-

son’s Association merit the undivided sup-

port and genuine thanks of every one of ‘its

members for the/many progressive move-

did fe fowsles fostered by

umer pat act ’ ue are

h in the recent publication.
sive and well ddited

e various oranches of

the

te Editor

| wo

orm —

organization as they seek through their
committees on weekly meetings, church re-
lations, personal work, vocational guidance
and a host of others, “to lead the students

God and a complete acceptance of Jesus
Christ as their Lord and Master and to give
them a field of service for Him.” :

There is no doubt i nthe minds of this stu-
dent body as to why the “Y,” for they realize
its tremendous influence and importance as
they come in contact with it each day.

CONCERNING GIFTS.

An attempt to present a gift which would
have undoubtedly caused regret in years to
come was frustrated when the Faculty: re-
fused to accept the scholarships as proposed
by graduating class. Although vested in the
garments of harmlessness and disguised as
an effort to assist “needy and deserving stu-
dents” the whole affair was nothing more or
less than an assault upon one of the finest
and most praiseworthy of all of Davidson’s
traditions, i. e., no paid athletes.

As worded in the proposal accepted by the
class, the funds which were to be raised by
an assessment of all members were to be
used in the forming of scholarships for
“needy students” but in the original discus-
sion, the whole matter was said to hinge
about the manner in which the “needy stu-
dents” would always be good athletes.

Certainly the motive behind the movement
cannot be criticized, for the Class of ’28 has
shown in innumerable ways a spirit of un-
failing devotion to their Alma Mater and the
very desire to make expression of this feel-
ing is but another manifestation of this
spirit. This in itself is to be commended
even. though the maner of expression draws
fire from various sources.

Now that the hitch has come in the Col-
lege regulations as to the control of the
awarding of scholarships, the seniors seem
to be searching for anyone who favored the
proposal in the first instance for many of
them abhor the very idea'of such. (The
recommendation passed at a called meeting
of the class by a large majority.)

It is unfortunate that every group of
graduates cannot contribute such harmless
(and such useless) gifts as campus lights,
ticket booths, stone benches, and the like,
but the campus would not stand for much
more in the way of fixtures, or,in the case
of the fountain, it would not be practicable
to scatter any more of such about the place
after a sufficiency has been reached.

The seniors will meet with some difficulty
in selecting a successor to the athlete-buy-
ing attempt but this publication hopes that,
rather than make another proposal similar
to the previots one, nothing be given. Let’s
keep that tradition unblemished of which
every Davidsonian feels justly proud, and
have no paid athletes!

A PROPASAL IN REGARD TO THOSE
LECTURES

fn defining the policy of the new staff, the
statement was made that more “good”. lec-
tures should be presented to this student
body. Included with lectures entertain-
ments generally are included.

It is evident that two, or, perhaps three
attractions per year cannot mean so very
much in the life of the each student and
especially is this true when all are of rather
mediocre worth, Far be it fro mus to criti-
cize the Lecture Committee for this lack be-
cause we'realize that they spend the entire
amount alotted to them for this purpose each
year and cannot do more,

Our proposal is simply this: That one dol-
lar be added to the campus tax of each stu-
dent,. upon entrance in the fall, to be de-
voted to use by the Lecture Committee.

With an addition of some six hundred and
fifty dollars and the present sum of approx-
imately three hundred dollars, several
worthwhile personages could be brought
here.’ We might have the pleasure of hear-
ing Will Durant, John Erskine, Richard Hal-
iburton, as well as eminent figures in world
affairs of the present day without going to
Charlotte or other nearby places and spend-
ing three or four times the amount of the
additional fee. Prominent musicians or oth-
er types of entertainers would be available
with the increased capital whom, in the
opinion of The Davidsonian, students, fac-
ulty members and townspeople would enjoy
hearing. The latter group might be glad to
"pay the same fee as imposed upon the stu-
dents jn order that entertaining as well as
instructive programs might be given.

The payment of this slight additional fee

not be realized by the payers as it
would be only a ‘small dots gad would

of really worthwhile attractions.

BES x

ok. Daxidson .College.to a greater, faith in,

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Comment

.. compared with formeg Junior Speaking enter- |
tainments, what is your opinion of the new plan

as carried out by the Class of 1929 during the past
week-end?

W. L, Lingle: “To my mind the new order of
Junior Speaking is the most significant reversal of
a worthless precedent made at Davidson in re-
cent years. Needless expense ‘has been eliminated ;
the valuable time of Junior Class members has
been saved; and at the same time a more enjoy-
able program than that of preceding years has
been originated.”

Dave Howard: “It is a very good thing not to
have Junior Speaking at Easter because at that
time not half the men remain on the campus. The
new Junior Speaking places less burden on the
Junior Class, but at that there should be more to
it. It is a good innovation that will be a great
deal better when we get used to it.”

Jeff Garrison: “As a whole the new system of
Junior Speaking is much better than the method
that has been used up until this year. In the first
place, there was not so much worry and expense;
then, the new way eliminated the spirit of com-
petition that was growing to such an extent that
in a few years the class would not be able to
meet the demands.”

Dr. Vowles: “A great improvement was made
in Junior Speaking this year because there was
not such a great expense to the students. It is
much better to leave the spring vacation free and
too, simplicity in the entertainments is what is
needed,”

Jake Robinson: “Too much money has been put
in Junior Speaking in the past for the returns re-
ceived. I think that there was as much’ benefit
obtained this year as last.”

B. F..Martin: “The new way is a great deal
more economical, but if it were possible to raise
enough money without an assessment, I would like
to see the old way continued with an entertain-
ment at the Gymn. The minstrel this year was
not so definitely linked up with the Junior Class
as a formal reception or other affairs would have
been.”

Dr. T. W. Lingle: “To those of us who grew
up with the traditions that Junior Speaking was
one of the most important parts of the commence-
ment, the present insubordination of this affair is
rather like a disappointment. ~However, the times
have changed and possibly one cannot expect com-
meéncement to be what it once was.”

F. S. (Piggy) Wearn: “This year’s Junior
Speaking was a whole lot better than last year’s,
because. there wree more boys on the campus and
more people entered into it with more interest.
In the past there were great expenses for the class
while only a few men could enjoy the benefits.
Now there are fewer expenses; there is something
for all the men to enjoy; and they are able to get
something out of it.”

Open Forum

JUNIOR ORATORICALS

Speeches of the type delivered by college stu-
dents do not amount to much. Their greatest use-
fulness is the experience the speaker himself gets
in crystalizing his opinions and in forming firm
convictions and secondarly in persuading others
to accept those convictions in part or in whole.

The majority of contests are attended propor-
tionately to their degree of worth and interest.
But at Davidson forensic activities have been in
the “minority, and have been among those con-
tests attended without the enthusiasm which they
merit. Varsity debates in which men of ability
have taken part as well as other forensic activ-
ities of worth have been attended by the intimate
friends of the contestants and by no others. The
writer has been present at contests at several col-
leges and universities both larger and smaller than
Davidson and has observed that without exception
the members of those student bodies have shown
more interest in high school contests than is
granted to intercollegiate and intermural forensic
activities at Davidson.

Such was the case in the Junior oratoricals held
here Friday night. There were four Participants
in this event and the level of their talks was ex-
traordinarily high. To hear hese four men there
were present forty-one students, nine professors,
ten townspeople and two house-party guests, a
total of sixty-two persons—fifteen per speaker.

Junior Oratoricals of several years ago were
successes. Everybody was interested. For the
past few years they have been more or less fail-
ures. They will continue to be failures as long as
no one takes interest in them. The people present
at the oratoricals Friday night did not warrant
the preparation the men ‘participating had put on
their productions. Before the Preacher can fill
the pulpit the congregation myst fill the pews.
Before Junior Oratoricals can be @ success the stu-
dent body will have to support them with their
interest and their attendarice. Ob a

make possible the enjoyment of a number}

F. D. M.

a Disobedient freshmen at the University of Akron
elections. The plan is expected to be very effective
as the interest in campus politics is high.

All undergraduates at the University of Kansas
are given an opportunity to vote on ,whom they
want for next year’s lecture course speakers.

At the blast of a whistle, sophomores and fresh-
men of Lafayette College rushed for a cane held
at each end by a member of their classes. The
class having the most hands on the cane at the
next blast was declared the winner.

In addition to installing 34 new tennis courts,
the University of Michigan started an artificial ice
plan to allow skating and hockey the year round.

In a recent “Grievance Issue,” the Duke Chron-
icle gave. opportunity to all students who desired
to air their views concerning certain practices,
customs, professors (maybe), and other such. The
enterprise was highly successful.

To complete the feeling of unity among Experi-
mental College students, a distinctive type of blazer
coat is being worn by most of the freshmen. The
custom is similar to that practiced at Oxford and
Cambridge where every college has its individual
blaze and one is considered well-dressed with one
on at any time of day.

Girls at N. C. C. W. were recently asked a num-
ber of questions: “Do you pet?” “Do your friends
pet?” Have you ever cheated?” “Do you believe
in prohibition?”—anyway it was sort of a purity
test. Now they say, “We sincerely hope that the
committee of three will be turned into committee
of Safety and guard those sheets with their lives
if they want us to have even a shread of our rep-
utation left.” Some of them must have flunked
the test. Eh, what?

Denver’s dean of women has taken a decided
stand against the practice of selecting the uni-
versity’s most beautiful co-eds through the means
of a beauty contest. “They are degrading and in-
sulting to girls whose brains are entirely over-
looked, find place co-eds on a level with follies
girls,” she say§,

uw

Students at two universities, Kansas and Ohio
Wesleyan, according to The New Student, have
adopted resolution protesting American interven-
tion in Nicarauga and demanding co-operation
with Latin-Americans .in the supervision of the
Nicaraguan elections.

To support third party interests through the
support of Norman Thomas, socialist candidate
for President, a local socialist group has been
founded at Dartmouth Colelge. The Princetonian,
student organ at Mr. Thomas’ alma mater, is
proud to claim him, and in fact, feels “rather hurt
that Mr. Thomas’ press agents did not see fit to

announce that the socialist candidate is a grad-
1ate of Princeton.”

Twenty-seven fraternal, political, religious, social,
ind labor organizations of the University of Cal-
fornia, participating in a conference on military
training, came to the conclusion that the R. O. T.
C., whether on an optional or compulsory basis, is

part of a general program of militarism, says The
New’ Student.

Roscoe M. Bloss, ‘liberal. arts sophomore at
Michigan State College, has been indefinitely sus-
pended for publishing charges of corruption and
graft against the college and state administrations

in The Student, a non-conformist and unofficial
campus magazine.

Northwestern University will be the first in-
stitution to present a course on business ethics in

connection with its school of commerce, when such
a study is added-next year.

_Columbia College will displace the present cur-
riculum of twenty years’ standing next September
when the first two years of work will be devoted

to “orientation and discovery” and the junior and’

senior years will prepare them for “the yet more
vase business of living a useful and high-minded
ife:

Believing that the editor of the student daily, the
Bruin, was not conforming to the policy of con-
Structive criticism, etc., etc., the senate of the
University of California has made him promise that
he will not, upon pain of removal from office. print
“anything of a sarcastic or critical nature that
would not be for the best interests of the Univer-

sity and the Associated Students.”

are now punished by the’ loss ‘GF ‘vote iff the” ctags”

,
