~

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

4
a

Old Pictures of Former
Teams Given to College

Efforts Being Made to Obtain All
Pictures Possible

Pictures of the football teams of 1906 and
1907 have been presented to the alumni
office by Mr. Thos. W. Rankin, '09, presi-

dent of the Fayetteville Alumni Association. |

The names of the members will be printed
on the bottom, the picture will be framed,
and later will be hung on the walls of the
trophy rodm, which is in the alumni office,

During the next few months efforts will
be made ‘to obtain as many pictures of for-
mer teams as possible. The 1904 baseball
picture is available for a reprint, and will be
or particular interest to the 1903, 1904, 1905
and 1906 classes, all of which return to Da-
vidson in May for reunions, Offers have
been made by other alumni to furnish pic-
tures for the trophy room, and these will be
followed up by the office here,

In this same connection, the alumni office
will make an effort to get a complete set of
all the annuals published by the Senior
classes of Davidson. These would be kept
on file for alumni perusal when they return
to Davidson.

Fayetteville’s Alumni

ALUMNI MARRIAGES Members Elect Officers

Milton Edward*Miller, ’22, was married to
Miss Elizabeth Norfleet at high noon, Satur-

Sey ann ne Rede ik,| Thos. W. Rankin, '09, Re-elected
rian durch, WI r. . ay ally, et President of Association

bride’S pastor, and Bishop Edward Rond- |
INFORMAL MEETING

thaler, of the Moravian Church, officiating. |
Mrs. Miller is the only daughter of Mr. and}

Mrs. Charles Norfleet, and has a wide host | , peer °
,of friends throughout the South. Mr. Miller Ernest Milton Present to Lead Dis-

1s Assen aes cussion About Davidson and
jis the W. F. Miller, of Winston- ; $
‘ s cis Ooutline Alumni Work
Salem. He was graduated from Davidson e
| College in the class of '26, and is associated |

| Thos. W. Rankin, 09, was re-clected pres-
; Sin Gen ent iene ea » 09,
in business with Fogle and Brothers, of Win- | ident; R. H. Dye, 1900, was elected vice-

Upon their SUE from an ex- | president, and W. B. Jennings, ’26, was re-
sence veuCing ep the bride and 8FOOM | tected secrefary of the Fayetteville Alumni
will be at home with Mr. and Mrs. Norfleet.} Association of Davidson College at their ati-
nual meeting: at the Prince Charles Hotel
\in that city last Thursday night. The meet-
ing was in the form of a supper, held in a
private dining room of the hotel.

About a dozen but very enthusiastic group
of alumni attended, three of them coming
from St. Pauls, and one from Hope Mills,
| points near Fayetteville. During the meet
ling a telegram was read from Dr. Wy J.
| Martin, president of Davidson.

son of

ston-Salem.

Dr. Thomas Boaz, '22, was married to
Miss Adelaide Wright on last Thursday
evening at the West End Methodist Church,
in Winston-Salem, with Rev. L. B. Hayes
and Bishop Edward Rondthaler officiating.
Mrs. Boaz is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. C. Wright, of Winston-Salem.
She was graduated from Salem College in
{music and afterwards studied abroad. Dr.
| Boaz is the son of Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Boaz, !

The meeting was informal, Ernest Milton,
alumni secretary, being’ present to lead the

| discussion about Davidson College and out-

in Enthusiastic Meeting},

Personal

Friends of H. F. Glenn, ’27, who is now a
medical student at Emory University, Ga.,
will regret to learn of the death of his fath-
er, Dr. H. F. Glenn, Sr., which occurred in
Gastonia Monday afternoon, February 27th.

S. A. Robinson, '99, has been elected as
one of the vice-presidents of the Gastonia
Post of the Travelers Protective Association.

R. L. Black, '22, of Wilmington, has suc-
cessfully coached a second athletic team to a
state title, his basketball five defeating Char-
lotte last- week-end for first honors of the
cage game. It will be remembered that his
football eleven copped the state title, defeat-
ing Greensboro.

of that. city.

his sister in an automobile accident.

Geo. W. Coan, Jr, 11, of Winston-Salem, | the Civil War.
is Chairman of the Community Chest drive |

Dr. J. L. Petrie Honored
by Church for Service

While Student at Davidson he
Roomed in Elm Row

The Davidsonian takes this opportunity
of congratulating a distinguished alumnus of
Davidson—Dr. George L. Petrie, of the class
of 759,

A special program was recently held at
the First Presbyterian Church of Charlottes-
ville, Va., for Dr. Petrie, who has just com-
‘pleted his fiftieth year as pastor there. The
main speaker at thisetime was Dr. Ernest
| Thompson, of the Union Theological Semi-
‘nary of Richmond, Va.
| - Prior to his pastorate of this church, Dr.
| Petrie had held a very important, but con-
spicuous position in the Southern Presbyte-
rian Church.. He also served as chaplain in

Although he is 88 years old, Dr. Petrie is
‘still one of the most active and popular men
jin the Presbyterian Church of the South

C. E. Houston, ’26, was called to his home | today.
in Monroe recently by the serious injury to |
Last | Row, where the alunini offices are now. He
newspaper reports stated that she qwas still | has expressed his intention of coming to the

While at Davidson, he roomed in Elm

|tinconscious, but’ would probably recover, commencement exercises this spring.

Mr. Houston is now studying law at Colum- |
| . . . . . |
| bia University, and will complete his second |

he. Cs e e e
‘ 7 oi line alumni work. During the meting alumni | year in June. Alumni Opinions on Dr. Green
; Ag | were asked to suggest names of Davidson | a
oh iy |men as alumni trustees and as president of | Ata recent meeting in Chicago, Rev. Law- | WK: Ghakn chose SRNRR/ESInINE: GER ORETRE
£® # N , the alumni association. The secretary was| rence Little, '25, of Concord, was elected), ~*~? E Rene ae ae
g Re we shila Ree endeavoring to find out how wellthe alumni* vice-chairman of the International and Na- | istized by an unusually keen analytical in-

| sight into religious problems coupled with
la remarkable ability for terse and force-
iful expression, His preaching is not of

All newspapers in the South recently car- | the flowery type, but is clear, persuasive,
illuminating. He should make a

ried an account of the death of F. S. Roy-| #4 8
ster, Sr., of Norfolk, Va. father of W. S.| ‘tong appeal to all thoughtful students.
“Mac” McDowell Richards.

: ; : ; foyster, '99, ia
of Stoneville, N. C. He is a graduate of Buyercry. 22 | cass

Davidson College and the Virginia Medical
College, at Richmond, Va. He is a promi-
nent young dentist of Winston-Salem, Upon
their return from their wedding trip, Dr.
and Mrs. Boaz will be at home on the Coun-
try Club road, Winston-Salem,

tional’ Executives Professional Advisory

| Council of Religious Education,

know cach other, and what was. the best
possible procedure in electing the alumni
trustees.

It was decided to hold the next meeting in
the fall during the football season,

Fifty thousan

| REET - |) “Doctor Green at first gives one the

Recent alia visitors to Davidson Were? | impression hate he nawer what is
Rev. W. 5S. Patterson, 03; Rev. D. W. talking about, and further acquaintance-
Richardson, 02; S. BY Woods, '14; G. B:

: : ; ship with him bears this out. He does
Sorrells, '23, and M. D. Fields, ’24. not talk unless he has something to say,

and what he says is to the point.”—“Soc”
Gibbs.

he

The fresh

good-looking

cagers, with a wealth of

material, started in

Letters and Monograms form with th® varsity but were taken in
Awarded to Basketeers tow by other state teams on their trip

jabout North Carolina. They lost several

fine |

“Dr. Green’s style of speaking is a chal-
lenging contrast to the familiar student
attitude to “collegiate philosophy” desig-

pubes clic | ,
g |close contests in the final moments of]... pet prey
Seven, Varsity Men and Seven Baars . : nated on college campuses by a more
i an |play, being nosed out by only one or two | ae evannneeciy ”__DeR
Freshm Honored - Maier Ine r ' A 1omely and expressive term.”—Dehoy
en points. Their contributions of material TAK

« : ; fine ‘to the varsity squad is better than in the s
Seven varsity and seven freshman let- :

‘ past two or three years, according to the; «py. Gracy te i ‘
ters and numerals were awarded by Tee anes Dr. Green is a profound thinker with
Athletic Council last Thursday night in-| — & a forceful method of presenting his ma-

terial.

cluding manager’s letter. | Manager Carson announces negotia- His ability to show one his rela-
These awards are as follows, announced | tions for games next season with a trip tionship to God awakens in one a desire
by Manager Carson: through Virginia already planned and/| to serve God. Walt” Walter Bracey.

B. A. Wilson (Captain). play with other teams of this state and |

C. W. Harrison. territory pending. He announces the fol-| “pry, J. B. Green is one of the clearest

J. R. Kugler, lowing teams and dates: thinkers that I have ever met in the min-

A. J. Hewlett. February 11, Guilford. istry. He is an impressive speaker, speak-

B. W. McAulay. ing fr > salie < ledge ~

ye de y February 13, V. M. I. ing from the salient knowledge that he

a C. R. Pritchett. Fel W.&I has a message for those to whom he
CCC (M ebruary 14, ‘ UF EES a : °

>. C, Carson (Manager). 2 , ; aren speaks. Every student will be impressed

pat ; ; February 15, University of Virginia. | - %

The following freshmen were given Hanniare ae lenckoureColtene iwith the force and definiteness of his
numerals for their services during the eine oat i po | talks."—"Check” Chester Monk.

Games with Duke, State and Carolina |

previous season: ; a ;
have practically been assured, Carson said. |

W. B. Goodson (Captain).

J. M. Proctor.

R. G. Wilson.

Dean Rusk.

J. D. McCall.

A. W. McAllister.

R. S. Overman.

These awards follow a season which
was started with a rush by both varsity
and frosh basketters which sent them fly-
ing .on their way only to hit the toboggan
and slide to middleground with a few
more victories than losses.

The varsity went through South Caro-
lina on an annual trip which resulted in
victories over The College of Charleston,
and Wofford and losses to The Citadel,
Clemson and Furman. ae
| Meeting only two teams from the State
big five, the ’Cats divided, losing to Duke
and gaining a great victory over Wake
Forest in the final home game of the
season.. The other games in: this state
were about equally divided between the
loss and won column.

Spring Braeburns Now

$35 $40 = $45
=o |
MELLON’S

“Dr. Green is a man with a message
that always strikes home. His thought
is clear; his expressions still clearer. His
presentation or delivery is orderly and

“No,” answered Uncle Bill Bottletop.| forceful. Now combine with the above,
“I have become a teetotaler myself, so| his mastery of Theology, and you begin to
I couldn’t honestly promise to be of serv-| see just what a power in the pulpit and
ice in gettin’ evidence against anybody.”—jclass room that he really is..—Joe M.
Washington Star.’

“Would you accept a job as a prohibi-
tion agent?”

Garrison.

White Drug Co.

SERVES
THE CAMPUS

