Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

October 25, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ Published Weekly by the Students of
Q Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE’CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

ape BROWN..-....-..-.- Editor-in-Chief
Ww.

EDITORIAL STAFF

F, D. MILLER. -Managing Editor
Cc. M. A Managing Editor
R. F. -Managing Editor
Z Y. --..Sports Editor
Vv. A. LiNews Editor
P. B. --Society Editor
Dz P. -Feature Editor
+ WwW. Assistant Editor
} L. B $sjstant Editor
Cc. R. -Associate Editor
, B. -Associate Editor
W. . PRITCHETT.-----.--.- Associate Editor
BUSINESS PLLA
) Ore NG.” 600) 60 eae ea Asst. Bus. Mer.
E. H. McCALL.. .-Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. [bg ate --Asst. Bus. Mgr.
F. OOP... -Circulation Mgr.
i BR. FENNIN Subscription Mgr.
H. MeL DAN i aluciascaiscsagadsccceeu Solicitor
G. D. Ge .-Solicitor
A, CANNON’..-- .-Solicitor
ii. bs PabSucckeveuoccausdenees Soligitor
KW. fier
E. S. s
P. R. AT: ‘DERMAN ( =STON
Cc. H. DU PORET Vc, Wesel ty
Mh R. GRAH. by RUS
W. RIRKPATRICK Nye R. WEAVER
S. H. LON S. WILEY
J. P. McBRY DE Jiove S5. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1928

The Davidsonian
Wants

m
Oo

—to congratulate the new Phi
Beta Kappas. :

*&—to break the jinx and win from
Wake Forest.

—to thank the Administration for
leaving the electric current on
all night.

—to urge a large attendance at
the remainder of the excellent
“Y” services.

—to see a big crowd of students
in Charlotte backing the Wild-
cats Saturday.

—to congratulate the local clas-
sicists upon their initiation into
Eta Sigma Phi.

—To know who will form the
staff for this paper next year if
more sophomores don’t begin
working at the office.

—to say that so many political
speeches, syndicated articles
and pamphlets referring to the
present presidential campaign
have been received, that all
have been refused publication.

EVERYTHING MUST NOT BE
WRONG WITH THE
COLEGE FOLK

’ A favorite subject for magazine
discussion during the past few years
has been “What’s Wrong With the
Colleges?’ People, always ready to
point out imperfection, have become
inclined to say that everything in
the higher educational institutions is
wrong, even when it isn’t. Espe-
cially is this attitude true as regards
graduates of the later decades of the
nineteenth century or the first
decade of the twentieth; but there
are those who were in close touch
with affairs in the colleges at that
time who tell us that a good deal in
college social life and education did
not correspond to the pretentious
and platitudinous claims advanced by
the authorities on ceremonial oc-
casions.

President Faunce, of Brown Uni-
versity, stands with the group view-
ing the situation in the light of his
own student days, as he says, “The
danger in the American college : is
not that students will become false-
hearted, but that they will become
scatter-brained” as they engage in
so many student activities. The lat-
ter, he believes, are often a ‘‘mere
frittering away of time and energy
into utter futility.”

No longer willing to break rules
in a sporting spirit, under-graduates
resent “any limit as to hours or ex-
penditures or garb or manner .. . ‘as
a puritanical restriction suited only
‘to a kindergarten,” and insist that
there shall be no rules to break. Stu-
dents are becoming more conscious
of their privileges and freedom,

But offsetting 'this changed condi-
tion, which reflects the temper. of
money - spending, pleasure - loving,

_ luxurious age, has been the effort of
“many colleges to exact higher stand-

M. POWELL.--...-.--- Business Manager’

ards of scholastic work. Whatever
freedom may be the student’s, there
may always be the requirement that
he acquire the elements of an’ edu-
cation.

President Lowell and other edu-
cators find the average under-grad-
uate intellectually more alert than
twenty-five years ago. If the stu-
dents’ miscellaneous activities tend
to make him scatter-brained, the col-
lege authorities have it in their pow-
er to require a grade of scholastic
work compelling him to concentrate.
A means toward equilibrium at least.

HE’S NOT SUCH A BAD
FELLOW

Talk about religious tolerance, po-
litical tolerance ,and tolerance of
many other kinds, is frequent, but
the idea of tolerance between stu-
dents is somewhat overlooked.

It’s rather difficult to catch the
other fellow’s view of a situation
and to realize what his attitude is.
Very often, however, this is due to

standard,

A splendid spirit of friendliness
exists here. It is easier for this to
be true where the student body is
small, But there are many who re-
gard others with an air of aloofness
or of independence—a don’t-care
attitude, until by chance a closer as-
sociation is formed and the discov-
ery is made that this fellow isn’t so
bad as had been thought. Right de-
cent sort of boy. Just because one
comes to know the fellow a little
better.
Associations are being formed
here that will last for a life-time.
There are more opportunities for
finding out what kind of man lives
acrossthe hall or sits at the other end
of the table. Get to know: him,
This little jingle gives the idea:
“When you get to know a fellow,
know his joys and know his cares,
When you've come to understand
him and the burdens that he bears,

When you've learned the fight he’s
making and the troubles in his
way,

Then you find that he is different
than you thought him yesterday.

You find his faults are trivial and
there’s not so much to blame,

In the brother that you jeered at
when you only knew his name.”

STUDENT OPINION SAYS
“THUMBS DOWN” ON
SUCH CAPERS

Reference to files of The David-
sonian a few years.ago shows that a
problem at that time was the conduct
of the student body—certain ele-
ments of it—at Hallowe'en.
Unthinking, prep-schoolish boys,
not cognizant of the proper manner
of conduct of the college man, be-
thought themselves the evil sprites
who have a way of stirring up a bit
of devilment on this occasion and
strewed the campus with unsightly
decorations.

Sensible men in the student body
quickly let it be known that such

‘actions were entirely out-of-place,

and the practice was suppressed.
Lest there be any who might be con-
templating any similar capers, let it
be known that it is out of order.

AND THERE WAS LIGHT!

Thanks to the Administration,
Davidsonians wilf no longer have to
study by candlelight, or be forced to
enter dark dormitories after mid-
night, as the recent ruling leaves the
electric current on all night. A great
improvement !

Mrs. N. T. Smith, matron of dor-
mitories, deserves the thanks of the
student body for her perseverance
in-bringing about this concession as
well as for many other thoughtful
services which she renders from time
to time.

The entire student body is glad
that the need has been seen and that
the remedy has been applied.

_ The Davidsonian extends thanks.

misjudging because of ‘too narrow a°

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot

By W. K. Pritchett

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

BY JOHN L. BROWN

In memory of the late General Leon-
ard Wood his friends are soliciting $2,-
000,000 for a leprosy hospital and clinic
at Culion, ,Philippine Islands. The
popular belief seems to be that leprosy
is a thing of the past belonging to
Bible times. There are, on the con-
trary, 4,000,000 lepers in world at
present, Chaulmoogra and its by-
products are the only medicines known
to treat leprosy. It is not a cure, but
it seems to stop the terrible rotting
and eating of the disease. The injec-
tion of the oil into the veins of lepers,
however, causes intense pain, so that
often lepers fight against its use,

An epidemic of alcholic deaths oc-
curred last week in Manhattan when
33 persons died within 3 days. It was
found that wood alcohol had been sub-
stituted for pure alcohol in a popular
drink on the East Side. Federal au-
thorities dodged responsibility on the
ground that wood alcohol is not a
beverage, but a recognized poison, and
as such its sale and use are not regu-
lated by Federal laws, but by State
laws.

Last week near Boston Speaker
Nicholas Longworth of the U. S.
House of Representatives started a
speech by saying, “The letter H is the
beginning of Hoover and the end of
Smith.” But that doesn’t necessarily
mean anything except perhaps as a
slogan for, Hooverites.

After four weeks of straw polling,
the Literary Digest reports, from 40
out of 48 states, 1,210,869 popular votes
for Hoover, or 425 electoral votes;
and 688,829 popttlar votes, or 42 elec-
toral votes for Smith. If straw votes
mean anything at all the Young Men’s
Democratic Club of Davidson College,
and other such organizations have
plenty of work to do between now
and November.

ee

And now Col. Charles A. Lindbergh
has entered politics to the extent of
sending a wire to Hoover upholding
his capability for the executive office.

Babe Ruth and eight fellow Yankees
have for their slogan, “You cannot
beat the Yankees or Al Smith.” The
first part has been proved for this
year at least. Now for the second part.

In China the government has ex-
cluded thé teachings of Confucius from
the schools. This action seems to
many to threaten temporarily at least
the unity of the Chinese people. W. F.
Johnson in the North American Re-
view says, “It looms most ominous
and menacing, at least potentially,
when we consider the part that Con-
fucius has placed in the national life
of China for 2,000 years, His teach-
ings have been the one effective basis
of Chinese unity, the one potent bond
that for all these centuries has held
the people together under a common
head. ... The abandonment of such a,
unifying force must have portentious
results.” This action does loom as a
temporary menace, but if the perma-
nent and unifying force of Christian-
ity can be introduced China will be
made a much better nation.

In Berlin last week a certain man
announced that he had talked con-
tinuously for 43 hours and would con-
tinue to do so until he talked for 150
hours, Then he would be champion.

Mr. George Bernard Shaw was at
Geneva recently to hear the debates
of the League of Nations. Interview-
ed as to his impressions by a repre-
sentative of “Aux Ecoutes,”’ Paris
weekly, the Irishman gave the follow-
ing reply: “During the debates I
conceived the plot for a play. The
action takes place in the year 2536.
War has been’killed and people have
forgotten how to fight each other. One
thing that will have revived though
even at that time will be episcopal
hierarchy, That’s an evil that won't
disappear so quickly. Well, one day
England feels she has been grossly in-
sulted and decides to fight. But there
are no generals and no armies, and no-
body knows how to fight. Somebody
thinks the archbishop of Canterbury
might still know. But this gentleman
declares himself incompetent’ to offer
advice. He suggests, however, that
they ask the Unknown Soldier, buried
in Westminster, to help the nation out
of its muddle. Just as the dignitaries
of the realm move in solemn proces-
sion tothe abbey, a figure approaches,
who bears a remarkable resemblance
to existing figures of Jesus Christ.
The figure implorés the dignataries to
desist from planning for war. They
chase him away. By a special spirit-
ualistic procedure, quite a usual thing
apparently in 2536, the lords and lead-
ers call upon the unknown. He ans-
wers, pushes the tombstone away and
delivers a terrible oration against war.
But he does it in German, The Un-
known Soldier, buried with pomp and
circumstances by King George and the
British people after the war, was a
Prussian grenadier.”

Hoover’s son has taken to aviation.
His father is also up in the air.

College fraternities have been scored
in the leading editorial for the October
number of the University of Georgia
Alumni Record which is just off the
press, The editorial was written by
T. S. Gray, alumni editor and secretary.

“As now organized and operated fra-,
ternities are worthless and are incon-
sistent with the aims of education,”,
the editor maintains. “College presi-
dents say little about the situation be-
cause they do not want to start trouble,
and faculty members overlook it for
the sake of popularity.”

“The damage of fraternities is done
in a number of ways,” the editorial as-
serts.. “Their fine-spun notions of
etiquette and culture standardize more
college men per year than could a hun-
dred schools of Ford philosophy.
Their false standards of value, based
upon small town “society” theories,
permit them to reject innumerable
worthy students and accept a con-
siderable number of rogues. This gives
rise to inferiority complexes that in
some cases ‘are sufficient to drive stu-
dents away from college, to say noth-
ing of the very undemocratic breach
it causes in the student body.”

The editor, who is a fraternity man,
suggests that one way to “remedy con-
ditions” might be found in encouraging
every student to join some fraternity.
“Perhaps then the folly of the system
would become apparent to the stu-
dents, and fraternities would topple
with their own weight.”

Are the above criticisms true of Da-
avidson’s fraternities?

(Continued on page 4)

The new record price for a seat in
the New York Stock Exchange is
$465,000, made last week. This is an
increase of $50,000 over the previous
record which was established last
month. :

(Continued on page 3)

OPEN FORUM

Editor’s Note: This department is
provided for those who care to give
vent to their feelings along almost any
line. Just so long as the writing con-
forms with the Faculty rules imposed
on publications and the author ..is
known to the editor—signature prefer-
red—the article will be published.

WHO WANTS THAT PAPER IN
THE LIBRARY
Mr. Editor:

That a newspaper of the type of the
Fellowship Forum should be allowed
in the reading room of this College is
an insult to the good taste of the ma-
jority of those who frequent the Li-,
brary. We imagine that it is a gratis
subscription—but most of the others
are—and that it is too highly valued
to be discarded. But.valued by whom ?.
Who wants trash like that in a place
where it will be nothing but an eye-

sore?

ry

It is bitterly opposed to Governor
Smith in this campaign because of his
religious affiliation. That is the heart
and soul of the publication. Slander-
ous, vulgar and vile it is. How it gets
through the mails is a wonder.. Even
a republican supporter will not read it.
And that must be pretty bad.

We don’t want the paper there!

“Senator Heflin.”
THE ALL-NIGHT LIGHTS
Mr. Editor:

The greatest improvement in dor-
mitory life since I have been in Col-
lege here was effected recently when
the Faculty announced that the lights
would, inthe future, remain on all
night. Students have needed and
wanted-the old condition changed for
a long time but it seéms not to have
been brought about until now. I just
want to be one to urge that the period
of trial be extended into permanency.

Sleepwalker.

THE BULL PEN
With characteristic promptness, the D,,G. N. (Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper)
is making inquiries into the wreck which occurred on the road from here to Char-

lotte immediately after the Wofford game.
and some 25 or 30 Scotchmen were killed.

It seems that two taxicabs collided
Complete details will probably be pub-

lished in this paper some time in the near future (meaning any time when the

Managing Editors need something to complete a column.
Smith Club is doing duty as a space filler.

Right now, the Vote-for-
About one-tenth of this club are old

enough to vote and we'll bet five of those ten haven't the necessary “e pluribus” for

poll tax).

In spite of this club, there are still a few who prefer oil to alcohol. And

there are others, like ourselves, who agree with whomever we happen to be catching

a ride with at the time.

Only about two weeks until election day, and Mr. Coolidge hasn't come out for

anybody yet.
have a chance to forget.

Cal must be planning on a grand slam in the ninth—so nobody will
Lindbergh came out for somebody about a month ago, but_

nobody rembered now just who Lindy was, favoring.

Another thing. Wi

e’ve always wondered if the candidates vote for themselves ? ?

A girl friend of ours, who has acquired the reducing habit, has even gone so
far as to remove all over-stuffed furniture from her home.

FAMOUS EPITAPHS
Here lie the bones of John Van Sahn
A Chiéago gangster-gentleman.
Fe lighted a deadly bomb one. day
And calmly tossed the match away.

That famous Scotch song-writer comes out with a new hit:
“I Can’t Give You Anything but Love.”

Quite a sum of money is to be spent soon in the improvement of the college
laundry (so called because it first started that age-old collegiate custom of wearing
shirts without the cdllar buttoned up—justtry and button ’em up after one washing).
A new machine, said to be almost superhuman in accurateness, will be installed to

separate socks that match and send them to different ends of the campus.

button-remover will also be installed.

A new

Many have made complaint about this, saying
that it is extravagance and a waste of money to buy a new such machine.

We agree

with them. You can’t perfect the perfect, sez we.

They ‘never walk back when I take ’em out, bragged the undertaker.—

Auburn Plainsman.

The motto of the Weather Man’s Club seems to be:

ceed, guess, guess, again!

If at first you don’t suc-

AND IF YOU’RE FROM MISSOURI

Recent chemical investigations have been made trying to prove that it is not
wood alcohol itself which kills the absorbant but formic acid, formed from the al-

cchol. Formula:

matter of a misplaced letter.
CHOOH—Formid acid.

CHOOH. Nevertheless, we still believe in the power of our
wool alcohol and ‘we think these investigators have made a mistake.

It is just a

HOOCH—Pink elephants, roses, green turf.

The Davidsonian makes claim to being the largest newspaper in the South.
Why not? Two New Orleans papers, an Atlanta paper, a Birmingham paper, and

several journals from Florida’s magic cities, claim that distinction.
have a larger circulation than The Davidsonian, we admit.

All of these
But none of them have

more news articles about so little news, none of them can out-bluff us, none of them

can prove anything to us or anybody else.
to be an old journalistic custom, eh, what ?

So why not get in the swim? It seems

WANTED
What this column needs a a to fill up two columns each week.

Contemporary Thought

POLITICS AND THE
STUDENT

Daily Illini: Greater consideration
of how the welfare of the community
can be best conserved is an outstand-
ing issue before the colleges of the
United States, Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins,
president of Dartmouth, said in a mat-
riculation address last week.

Judging from the political conver-
sations we .-have been in on, it seems
that the campus is well awakened to
the fact that the nation is about to
elect its chief executive.

A university student should be po-
litically conscious. He should judge
the candidates and their parties care-
fully before deciding to throw his vote
to any presidential candidate.

“If within our college and university
constitutencies we cannot assume a
more solicitous interest and a more
responsible consideration of these mat-

ters than is existent in the country at |

large, individuals and the public are
entitled to inquire, ‘Wherein is the in-
fluence upon or gain to society of
higher education?’” he said.

We feel optimistic about the situa- |

tion. The reasoning and opinions on
the political situation shown around
the fraternity dinner table have .been
skeptically and logically drawn. They
are made with practically no regard
for traditional party affiliation, and
they have been influenced little, ap-
parently, by religious prejudices. The
issues influencing the reasoning in the
undergraduate mind have been the
concrete, stable questions facing the
country.

DO COLLEGE GRADUATES?

The McGill Daily: A McGill student
was interviewing a prominent business
man a few months ago with a view to
obtaining a situation on his approach-
ing graduation. The prospective em-
ployer, of course, inquired the academic
standing of the applicant, and was told,

modestly enough, that “it averaged
about second class.” Imagine the stu-

x

dent’s surprise on receiving this com-
ment from the business man: “I
don’t care, so long as it isn’t a first, I
don’t want my men to know it all.”

Is that a justifiable indictment? No
college graduates, especially the “first
class” honor men, think they know it
all? Do they step out of college with
the idea that there is nothing more to
learn—that they can go right into any
business and tell the old-timers how
things ought to be done? On the
whole, we think not.

But whether or not such is the case,
there is no gainsaying the fact that
there is, in certain quarters, a prevail-
ing impression to that effect. It is an
impression perhaps built up on a few
isolated instances, but even such com-
paratively unfounded opinions require
a good many cases to the contrary be-
fore they will admit disproof. It takes
scores of good steady “willing-to-
learn” college graduates to live down
the effect of one or two “know-it-alls,”

The man or woman who graduates
from the university with the idea that
his degree indicates the summit of
human learning and the acquisition of
all worthwhile knowledge, has missed
entirely the spirit of his education.
The most impressive thing about col-
lege education, to some of us at least,
is the magnitude and multiplicity of
subjects which we cannot even hope to
learn. With all our classes and courses
and what not, we can but barely
scratch the surface of knowledge. We
may honor, we may specialize, we may
spend years and even life-times in
the quest—and in the end the gleam is
still vanishing over the horizon. Some
little assistance, some additional equip-
ment for the search, is all that the
best university education or the highest
college degree can give. All else must
be learned from life. If we “know it
all” it is but.a sign that we have not
truly learned the significance of those
lessons which have been placed before
us during our undergradute days.
