THeDA VAD SON IAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 3, 1928

No. 29

Coll iate Press Will
Hold Semi-Annual Meet
at Davidson Next Fall

C. M. Pratt Elected Second Vice-
President of Association for
Coming Year

CHRONICLE BEST PAPER

Hundred Delegates from Various
Colleges Attend Convention '

Davidson will be the meeting place of
the convention of the North Carolina In-
tercollege Press next fall. The last semi-
annual convention was held at Duke Uni-
versity the week-end of April 27-29, with
over a hundred’ delegates from various
colleges of the state attending. The pro-
gram opened Thursday afternoon with the
registration of delegates, followed that
night by a theatre party with the com-
pliments of the Paris Theatre, in Durham.
Friday, after a business meeting in the
morning, a luncheon was given the dete-
gates by the Durham Morning Herald
and the Durham Sun. W. O. Saunders
addressed the delegates during the after-
noon session, Friday night a dinner-dance
was given for the representatives by the
Duke University Publications Board.

Saturday morning was given over to
the report of committees and a general
business session. Interspersing the bus-
iness meetings was a talk given by Oscar
Coffin, of the Department of Journalism,
at the University of North Carolina, and
a general discussion of annuals, magazines
and newspapers.

Following these meetings the election of
officers for next year was held and the
awarding of cups and prizes to winners of
the various groups of collegiate pub-
lications. Davidson received one office
when C. M. Pratt’ was elected second
vice-president of the association for the

(Continued on page 8)

IDEAL FRAT MAN

H. B. Arbuckle

Arbuckle Recipient
of National Honor

Unusual and significant was the honor
recently bestowed upon Howard Bell Ar-
buckle, Jr., by the national organization
of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, of
which he is a member. Competing with
11,734 active members of the hundreds of
chapters of Pi Kappa Alpha throughout
the entire nation, young Arbuckle was
selected as the. “ideal fraternity man,” as
interpreted by. that organization. Their
choice, as typified by Arbuckle, is a man,
not with fastidiously arranged hair and
| wardrobe and an affected air of sophisti-
Cation, but man of good scholastic stand-
jing, a leader in one or more phases of
campus activities, and a personality re-
flecting honor upon his fraternity.

Arbuckle is a son of Dr. H. D Arbuckle,
head of the department of chemistry of
this college, who himself is a leader in

(Continued on page 8)

Frew to Represent State in South’s
Oratorical Contest on ‘‘Constitution’’

In the State Intercollegiate Oratorical
Contest at Duke University last Friday,
Allan Frew, of Davidson College was
awarded first place over entries from four
of the state colleges. Colleges competing
in the contest were Davidson, Wake
Forest, State, and High Point College.

The subject matter of each oration was
limited to discussion of the Constitution
of the United States. Frew, using the same
oration he used to win first place in the
Davidson preliminaries, won first place,
although closely pushed by Carlson of
Wake Forest, who was awarded second.

Professor Cunningham, of North Caro-
lina State presided. The
board of judges contained four lawyers
and one rector.

University,

By reason of his victory, Frew will rep-
resent Davidson in the regional contest at
Greenville, S. C., on May 5. In this con-
test, a representative from each of the
various southern states will compete for
southern honors.

Thé wither in this contest will enter the
National contest to be held in San Fran-
ciscé; Calif. Large cash prizes are of-
fered to the winners in the finals of the
nation-wide competition, first) prize being
$1,500. Winners in the seven regional
contests will be awardéd tash prizes latge
enough to allow them to pay their ex-
penses to San Francisco for the finals.

Social Merriment
Week-End Feature

During the past week-end the class of
1929 demonstrated in a very convincing
|manner the fact that the new style: Jun-
ior Speakings can be made as delightful
and entertaining as the expensive and
| burdensome programs of past years, A
(brilliant group of visitors from all over
the South assembled on the campus as
| Suests of the Junior class as the social
jlife of Davidson for the present term
reached its zenith. All of the fraternities
entertained at house parties and many of
the non-fraternity students had girls up to
|enjoy the three days of merriment.
| Junior Speaking officially began Friday
| night with the Junior Oratorical Contest,
which Lawrence Dumas, speaking on “The
Individuality of Americans,” won.

Saturday afternoon the feature attrac-
tion was the track meet between David-
son and the University of South Carolina,
which Davidson won by a small margin of
points. _Members of the Junior class
Starred in this meet, accounting for the
greatest part of Davidson’s points.

Immediately after the track meet, all
the’ visitors o nthe campus were enter-
tained at an informal reception in the
gymnasium. Large numbers of students.
visitors, and faculty members took ad-
vantage of this opportunity to meet each
other, ;

Saturday night, the members of the
Junior Class presented a minstrel revue,

(Continued on page 8)

|

DEAN BRADSHAW OF CAROLINA IS CHIEF
SPEAKER IN PUBLIC INITIATION OF 0. D. K.

Glee Club to Give
Local Performance

On Tuesday evening, at eight o'clock, in
Shearer Hall, the Davidson College Glee
Club will present its final performance of
the season. At this time the same pro-
gram will be rendered that was given on
its southern tour earlier in the season.

This is the first time this season, that
the club has given a complete performance
in local territory. Features of the pro-
gram will include: a solo by Mrs, E. J.
Cullum, selections from the stringed trio,
the. Sunnyland Serenaders, the Wildcat
quartet, and others.

The performance Tuesday evening will

;mark the close of a very successful sea-
{son for the club. Besides the southern
|tour, which carried them into South Caro-
{lina and Georgia, the club has given many
| performances in the state, most of which
have been heard by large audiences. Much
of this success is due to the successful

music director of Davidson,

There will be no reserved seats except
for the townspeople and faculty., These
seats will probably be on sale at the drug
store Tué*day afternoon, "

Dumas Winner of

Friday evening W. L. Dumas, of Tal-
ladega, Ala., took first prize in the an-
nual Junior Oratorical Contest held in
Shearer Hall as a feature of Junior
Speaking week. Dumas’ subject was “The
Individuality of Americans,” of «which

livery’ won for him the Junior Orator’s
Medal, which will be awarded at com-
mencement.

Other speakers on the program were
G. A. Fry, speaking on “And a Little
Child Shall Lead Them;” H. A. Knox,
whose subject was “The Purpose and
Aims of the College;” and J. R. Graham,
on “The New South.” Knox won second
honors.

Mr. J. A. Crow, professor of Spanish in
the college presided. Those who served
as judges for the contest were Dr. hy
W. Lingle, professor in History, Dr. H.
M. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson Pres-

professor of French.

A small number of students, visitors,

present for the exercises,

Four New Men Chosen

to Wear Golden Quill

In recognition of their ability as writ-
ers and journalists J: L. Ely, F. D. Miller,
C. M. Pratt, and R. F. Jarratt have been
chosen to wear the Golden Quill. | The
Golden Quill is a special feature of the
Reporters’ Club and is rendered to those
members of the club who further dis-
tinguish themselves in journalistic lines.

Only ten men are allowed to wear the
quill-at one time, and these four men were
elected to fill the vacancies to be left by
four seriiors. -

J. L. Ely is the recently chosen presi-
dent of the Reporters’ Club while F, D.
Miller, C. M. Pratt, and R., F. Jarratt are
the managing editors of The Davidsonian.

d

AN OLD SERVANT

Sunday night the title of the old-
est servant of Davidson College
passed into other hands when Bax-
ter Williamson, the faithful old
darkey janitor of the college for
several score years, died. Baxter,
in his own words, saw and aided in
the erection of Old Chambers, wit-
nessed its destruction by fire, and
finally lived to see ground broken
for the final section of its successor,
New Chambers. Baxter remained
faithful to his duties until his last
sickness of about a month.

Business Managers for
Publications Appointed

directorship of Professor E. J. Cullum, the

Junior Oratoricals

the original treatment and forceful de- |

byterian ,church, and Mr. J. P. Moore,

faculty members, and townspeople were |

In a recent meeting of the publications
board, W. M. Powell was elected as bus-
iness manager of the Davidsonian, and
Herbert Knox as manager of the Cham-

eleon, The Junior Class elected Lawrence
Dumas business manager of the Quips and

and Cranks.

Powell is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity and is an as-
sistant track manager. He is serving his
second year on the student council.
home is in Little Rock, Ark. Powell was
elected over S, J. Allison and. R, S, Aber-
nathy,

Dumas, who is from Talladega, Ala., is
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity, and serves on the Forensic
Council. He was on the freshman debat-
ing team and won the Junior Oratorical
| Contest this year,
| Knox comes from Liberty, S. C.
| (Continued on page 8)

He

Thirteen Leaders in Campus Activ-
ities and Organizations Initiated
by National Honorary Fraternity

_TWO ALUMNI RECEIVED

Character and Destiny Subject of
Dean Bradshaw’s Talk

Character and destiny as related to the
potential leader was the central thought
given by F. F. Bradshaw, dean of men of
the University of North Carolina, as he
talked to the Delta Circle of Omicron
Delta Kappa in their public initiation
Tuesday night.

The private initiation of the order was
held in the Quadrangle Club at 7 o'clock,
following which the members went di-
rectly to Shearer Hall where the public
ceremonies were witnessed by the. stu-
dents and townspeople. Following this
program, the meeting adjourned to Max-

His |

well-Chambers Hotel where they assem-
bled at a banquet, Prof. Currie presided
as toastmaster of this affair, with Dr.
J. M. McConnell and Harllee Branch, Jr,,
speaking,

The two alumni to be initiated at this
time were J. M. Appleby, Florence, Ala.,
,and Dr. William Y. Sayad, West Palm
Beach, Fla. The students initiates were
M. P. Crawford, Charlotte; C. R. Rowe,
'Fredericksburg, Va.; J. S. Foster, Win-_
, ston-Salem; B, A. Wilson, Marion; A. N.
Brown, Mineral Wells, Texas; J. R. Cov-
ington, Raeford; M. T. Gilmour, Wilming-
ton; J. W. Melton, Decatur, Ga.; John
Currie, Fayetteville; M. M. King, Bristol,
Tenn.; and R. E. Kell, Pascagoula, Miss.

Dean Bradshaw, in his speech stated
that civilization is in full career, is a
spiritual pilgrimage, and is determined
less by its size and speed than by its di-

(Continued on page 8)

Student Body Hears Gypsy Smith in

‘Authorities Refuse
Senior Scholarship

Distinction is a thing which many seek
after and more never encounter. The
present Senior class has ‘succeeded in

to give a Senior Class Gift, a custom
which has probably never been broken in
the history of the college, and certainly
but a few times,

In a class meeting, this past Tuesday
morning, after chapel, the seniors learned
that not only their original plan of offer-
ing a scholarship to aid needy athletes to
come to Davidson, but also their alternate
plan of using the money for the class gift
for the purpose of aiding students already
in school, had been refused by the college
authorities. The entering men or those
students to have been aided by the senior
class scholarship, were to have been
chosen by a board of the college officials
(which board had been designated by the
senior class.) This board was to have
consisted of: Coaches Monk Younger,
Tex Tilson, and the Dean, Dr. Sentelle.
The college did not, however, see itself
able to accept either of the two plans.

Seeing that their two former plans had
been refused, the class voted to use the
money: already in their treasury, some
hundred and twenty dollars, for the pur-
pose of.the maintenance of the Wildcats.
Accordingly, 'they decided to turn over:
he sum on hand, which sum was to have
been greatly increased in the case of their
scholarships being accepted, to the Ath-
letic Asociation, for the aforementioned
Purpose of feeding the wildcats,

|

distinguishing itself by means of refusing |

Impressive Sermon Given at Chapel

“A man can fall if he wants to, and he
can rise if he wants to. Men succeed be-
success is no
Smith, Jr.,

speaking to the student body and towns-

cause they will to do it,

accident,” asserted Gypsy
people in the church during the regular
Rev.

Mr. Smith, a famous evangelist of gypsy

chapel hour Monday morning.

descent and son of a still more famous
evangelist, is holding a revival meeting
in Concord and was procured to speak for
the students by the local Y. M. C. A. He
was accompanied by Dr. Rowan, of Con-
cord, president of the Alumni Associa-
tion,

Mr. Smith chose his text’ from the
fifth chapter of the second Epistle of
John. The theme of his talk was cen-
tered about love and faith. Many inter-
esting illustrations served to clarify and
emphasize his talk.

He began his speech by showing that
the words of love and faith ,were contin-
ually on the lips of Jesus and His repeti-
tion of those words is enough to give their
full importance to us. He pointed out
that every man has a different conception
of love and faith, and no single person's
definition ‘would be satisfactory, to any-
one else. Love and faith are more than
intellectual achievements. This point was
illustrated by the fact that radio enables
us to enjoy the reception although we
have not the knowledge to explain. that
reception. Mr. Smith closed by assérting
that one could never appreciate the Gos-

pel-until it had saved one.

