DOWN N. C.-. FOLLOW THE
STATE ' WILDCATS
SATURDAY TO RALEIGH
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON. COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 7, 1929 No. 8

Tap ay Hivetaies Held
As Omicron Delta Kappa
Bids Prominent Seniors

Heefner, Hill, Johnston and Whittle

Receive Honor

FALL TAP DAY

-Cememony Conducted at Chapel
Period Tuesday Morning—All
Initiate Are Campus
Leaders

The annual fall Tap Day of Omicron Del-
ta Kappa was observed last Tuesday morn-
ing, November 5, when four prominent mem-
bers of the Senior Class were selected for
membership in that national honorary body.
Edward Sierer Heefner, Jr., Winston-Sa-
lém, N. C., William Rollan Hill, Statesville,
N: C,, Frontis Withers Johnston, Jefferson,
Georgia, and Andrew Heath Whittle, At-
lanta, Georgia, were the seniors “tapped”
into O. D. K.

The exercises were conducted during the
regular chapel period which was turned over
to the members of O. D. K. by Dr. Walter
L. Lingle after he had called for announce-
ments from the faculty and student body.

Dr. C. M>>Richards, a faculty member of
O. D. K., read a passage of scripture and
led in the prayer for the occasion, Then Zeb
V. Long, Jr., President of the local circle,
took charge, explaining to the student body
the nature and purpose of Tap Day as well
as the method of tapping and its significance.
Long then introduced Prof. Archibald Currie,
Head of the Political Science Department of
the College and himself a member of O. D.
K., who gave a brief survey of the history
and nature of the national O. D. K. organi-
zation.

Next came the actual process of tapping.
At the rap of the president's gavel on the
desk, a student member of the order left the
rostrum, made his way out into the student
body and, having located the man to~ be
tapped, approached him and gave this man
a hearty tap on the shoulder. The candidate
thus tapped signified his intention of accept-
ing the bid by rising from his seat and fol-
lowing his tapper to the rostrum where W.
B. McGuire, secretary of the Davidson
chapter, pinned the colors of the order upon
the initiate and handed him the written in-
vitation to become a full-fledged member.
After all four men had been tapped and
greeted in this manner, the secretary an-
nounced to the student body that the four

(Continued on Page 5)

Dr. Lingle Corrects
An Erroneous Report

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son College, has expressed deep concern over
the erroneous report that Davidson is asking
for a half-million dollar church building, and
today made public a statement in which he
characterized that figure as preposterous.
President Lingle also made it clear that the
movement for a new church at Davidson
was launched by the Synod of North Caro-
lina, and not by the institution, and stated
further that the question of construction and
cost would rest in the hands of a committee
which has been appointed by that body.

His full statement follows:

“A report has gone out that Davidson
College is asking for a new church build-
ing which is to cost $500,000.00. These fig-
ures are erroneous; in fact, they are prepos-
terous. To begin with, the movement for a
new church was inaugurated by the Synod
and not by the college, and for this David-
son is-very grateful.

“At its recent meeting at Rocky Mount
the synod appointed a large committee con-
sisting of some of the very ablest ministers
and business men in the state to take charge
of the whole matter of raising the money
and erecting the church at Davidson. That
committee is now studying the question, and
no estimate of the cost of the structure has
been made by the Synod or by the committee.
It is an able group of men, and I feel sure
that its members will see to it that Davidson

(Continued on page 8)

NEW ORGAN

PRESENTED

BY CAMERON MORRISON

Gala Plans Made

For Home-Coming

Present plans point to November 16 as
a gala day in the life of Davidson College
as the result of arrangements recently com-
pleted for the annual Home-Coming day.
The official in charge of the program are
especially pleased at the fact that they were
able to persuade Dr. Walter L. Lingle to
make the principle address of the day. Doc-
tor Lingle is known to almost every David-
son alumnus already as a man, but this ap-
pearance before the alumni on
16 will give them a chance and an oppor-
tunity to know him better as the leader of
their College.

The probable program for Home-Coming
day shows that activities will begin at 10:45
a. m., with an organ recital in the new
Chambers Auditorium, during which time
the people will be assembling. Promptly at
eleven o'clock the few speeches which are to
be made will start. Dr. J. Moore McConnel
will extend to the alumni and visitors a cor-
dial welcome, and Prof. Ernest Beatty will
read the names of the alumni who have died
during the past year. Last will come Doctor
Lingle’s address, the feature of the morn-
ing program.

All this will be done over a period of forty
minutes, for at 11:40 the R. O. T. C. battal-
ion will assemble and march to Sprunt field,
where they will give a parade. Barring un-
looked for interferences, all this should be
concluded by 12:30 p. m., giving. the alumni
and friends a half hour before the annual
luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers
Building which will start at 1 o'clock.

Musical features will add to the days’
entensainment at all exercises. Arrangements
have again been completed to have the Le-
noir High School band, winner of several
state contests, as guest of the Athletic and
Alumni Associations of Davidson; The R. O.
T. .C. band will play for the parade, the
Davidson College Band will be colorfully
attired for thé game. The orchestra will pro-
bably be heard during the day.

The most interesting event of the whole
day will undoubtedly be the football game
between the’ Wildcats and the U. of N. C.
Tar Heels, which is scheduled to start at

(Continued on page 8)

Prominent Men to
Speak at Vespers

During the next few months several promi-
nent speakers will give talks at “Y” Ves-
pers. Although a definite schedule has not
yet been arranged, the program will come
at the services between now and the Christ-
mas holidays.

Prof. K. J. Foreman, of the Bible and
Philosophy Department of Davidson, will
talk at some time in the near future. Profes-
sor Foreman in the past has. been secured
each year to speak at vespers. Doctor Hardie,
pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of
Charlotte, has also been secured for one of
the services. Doctor Hardie, it will be re-
membered, delivered the prayer at the dedi-
cation of the new organ on November 1.

Rey. Frank C. Brown, of the Bream Mem-
orial Church at Charleston, W. Va., is to
speak on Christian religion. Rev. Brown
recently received a call from the Central
Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., which
is one of the largest churches in the South;
however, he refused to leave his charge.

A deputation, composed mostly of David-
son alumni who are now at Union Theologi-
cal Seminary will have charge of the pro-
gram on one Sunday evening. Among the
men who will assist in the program are Jim
Appleby. of the Class of 1926, and Roland
Wilson, of the class of 1927. The President
of the student body at Union will also com
on this deputation. :

Before the holidays the Davidson student
body will have charge of the program, at
which time the Christmas idea will be
brought out. A selected group of students
will conduct this.

November.

Brilliant Recital Given by Dean
C. G. Vardell, Jr., and Mrs.
Emily Cullum

On Friday, November 1, in one of. the
most brilliant and impressive programs ever
given in the new Chambers building at Dav-
idson, the new three manual Skinner organ,
given to the school by Mrs. Sara E. Mor-
rison, was formerly ‘presented to Davidson
by Governor Cameron Morrison,
governor of North Carolina,

After several beautiful numbers had been
rendered by Charles G. Vardell, Jr., dean
of the school of music at Salem College, and
Emily Cullum, contralto, the formal presen-
tation speech was delivered by Governor
Morrison. Expressing his regret on not being
able to speak on the only subject that would
be fitting for such an occasion—-music—Gov-
ernor Morrison, with a touch of humor and
in a very pleasing manner, presented the
organ formally to the officials of Davidson
College on behalf of Mrs. Morrison, and ex-
pressed the hope that it would be enjoyed
by everyone in the years to come. Governor
Morrison said in part: “I want very much
to make a speech, but I just can not do it.
I represent Mrs. Morrison. She told me not
to say much. The only subject which would
be fitting to speak on, and about which I
know nothing about, is music. It, therefore,

former

gives me great pleasure Yo present this organ |
!

to the officials of Davidson College.”

-Dr. Walter Lingle, in accepting, expressed
great pleasure in receiving the organ and the
way it was presented. “I’ve been thinking,”
said Doctor Lingle, “of the large service this
organ will render in the years to come. It
will enrich and ennoble our lives. It will
make us appreciate music. Rendering service
daily in the morning devotional Chapel serv-
ices, it will keep fresh in our memories the
presentor of the organ.” The prayer of
dedication was offered by Rey. James F.
Hardie, D.D., Mrs. Morrison's pastor.

Following the presentation of the organ,
a brilliant recital was given by Dean Vardell
and Mrs. Emily Cullum. Demonstrating the
marvelous capacities which the organ has,

Dean Vardell rendered varied group of num-
bers; light and fantastic numbers, deep emo-
tional ones, and finally, a number in which
the beautiful chimes of the organ were used.
Mrs. Emily Cullum rendered several beauti-
ful numbers which delighted the audience.

Dean Vardell closed his recital with the
March from the “Queen of Sheba,” ‘by
Gounod, but graciously played several en-
cores.in answer to the insistant applause of
the audience.

The program was as follows:

1. Passacaglia in D Minor, Buxtehude;
Gavotte in F Minor, Martini; Variations de
Concert, Bonnet—Mr. Vardell.

II. Intreat Me Not To’Leave Thee, Wint-
ter Watts; Moon Marketing, Powell Weaver
—Mrs. Cullum.

III. Presentation of the Sara E. Morrison
Organ, Former Governor Cameron Morri-
son; Acceptance, President Walter L. Lin-
gle; Prayer of Dedication, Rev. James F.
Hardie, D.D.

IV. To the Rising Sun, Torjuseen; Will-
o’-the-Wisp, Nevin; The Swan, Saint Saeus ;
Fantasia, Polleri—Mr. Vardell.

V. Now Sleeps The Crimson Petal, Quill-
ter; Take Joy Home, Bassett—Mrs. Cullum.

VI. Largo from “New World Symphony,”
(Arranged by Frederick Shinn) ; Intermezzo,
Callaerts; Christmas Chimes, Gade; March
from “The Queen of Sheba,’ Gounod—Mr.
Vardell.

VII. Benediction.

Dr. W. P. Cumming To
Speak at Carolina

Dr. W.°P. Cumming, professor of Eng-
lish at Davidson College, has accepted an
invitation to speak before the Philological
Club at the University of North Carolina
next Tuesday night, November 5. This club
at the university is composed of all profes-
sors of the humanities, outside of the
sciences. Doctor Cumming is one of the
younger professors at Davidson, and is con-

Home-Coming Issue

The current issue of THE DAV-
IDSONIAN will be the last one un-
til Saturday, November 16. On that
date the annual Home-Coming issue
will make its appearance for stu-
dents and visitors. The lapse of time
is only two days more than usual,
and will hardly be noticeable to the
student body.

In past years, it has been a reg-
ular custom to publish a special
copy of the paper for Home-Com-
ing Day. The annual grid-iron battle
with Carolina is the feature of the
day, and thousands of fans from all
sections of the country wend their
way to Davidson to witness this en-
counter. Many of this number are
alumni and friends of the college. It
is for the information and conven-
ience of these visitors that The
Davidsonian makes it a point to ap-
pear on the day that they are on
the campus.

Special features are being pre-
pared for this Home-Coming issue.
Football stories will give full infor-
mation about the afternoon’s game.
Information and statistics concern-
ing the rival teams will be tabulated
for the fans, and photographs of the
leading players of both teams will
be in evidence. All programs for
the exercises of the day, including
the Alumni Luncheon, will be pub-
lished. In addition, all regular feat-
ures of the paper will appear, and
the staff will do its utmost to make
THE DAVIDSONIAN a vital part

of the Home-Coming exercises.

Oo

Invitations Issued
By Honorary Frats

Bids were issued to thirty-five men by the
various honorary fraternities at Davidson
College, on November 1, the official bid day.
The men who received bids have been se-
lected because of outstanding ability in the
various fields which are represented by “the
fraternities. One alumnus and two members
of the faculty were among the men who were
bid.

Sigma Upsilon and The Biology Club did
not issue bids at this time. Gamma Sigma
Epsilon had previously bid its new members,
while Omega Phi Alpha has deferred its
bidding until a later date.

The following men have received bids to
the honorary fraternities :

Alpha Phi Epsilon: S.
Poag.

Delta Pi Kappa: A. R. Bird, W. R. Hill,
E. H. McCall, J. V. D. Middleton, W. C.
Ragin, FE. L. Robinson, Watson Wharton,
R. FE. Witt.

Eta Sigma’Phi: J. B. Black, J. R. Cald-
well, J. W. McCutchan, A. B. McClure, J.
C. Matthews, J. F. Preston.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon: W. W. Beatie, W.
C. Ragin.

Mu Beta Psi: J. A. Cannon, Jr., J. L.
Hall, J. H. Ramseur, J. A. Wilson, D. G.
Wilson, an alumnus, and Profs. A. V. Gold-
iere and J. Truesdale.

Scabbard and Blade: A. M. Calhoun, W.
F. Gaffney, S. L. Gant, D. K. Miller, C. A.
Ritchie, H. W. White.

Sigma Pi Sigma: H. S. Goodwin, O. W.
Morris, F. H. Rollin, F. L. Wilson.

R. Coker, F. V.

sidered an authority in his field. After his
graduation from Davidson he spent several
years studying on his masters and doctor’s
degrees at Harvard University and at Ox-
ford University in England. Since completing
his graduate work two years ago, he has been
connected with Davidson.

Writing as he did in a hurry, Mr.
Shearer forgot to mention to his em-
ployers that among other things he was
chiefly responsible for the Constitutional
Convention of 1787 and the Gettysburg
Address——New York Times.

Wildcats and Wolfpack
Prepare for Hard Tilt
At Raleigh on Saturday

Second “Big Five” Contest
of the Year

COMPETITION KEEN

N. C. State Wolfpack Has Edge
Over Wildcats in Past Encounters

Coach Monk Younger and his Wildcats
will enter the “Big Five” race again Sat-
urday, when they meet the engineers of
North Carolina State at Raleigh. This game
will mark the second appearance of the year
in “Big Five’ circles for Davidson, and the
third for State. The Wildcats have one black
mark on her state “win column,” a 6 to 0
defeat at the hands of Wake Forest. How-
ever, the Wolfpack is going at a 500 per cent
gait, winning from Wake Forest by 2 points
and losing to the powerful U. of N. C. Tar
Heels by the score of 32 to 0.

That the Wildcats and the Wolfpack will
have a great battle in Raleigh is not doubted.
In looking over comparative scores, it is
found that Wake Forest is the only school
met so far by both” institutions. The Pack
won from -the-Baptists 8 to 6, while the "Cats
played listlessly to lose 6 to 0. However,
the play of Davidson in such games as
Army, Citadel, and V. M. I. tends to dispel
any thought that N. C. State has the edge in
the coming contest.

The two teams will be renewing a grid-
iron dispute of long standing, with the State
team having the best of things in games won.
Eighteen contests have been staged between
the two colleges since 189, and the State
boys have won ten of them. Davidson has
come off with the long end of the scoré in
four of the melees, and a quartet have ended
with a knotted count.

The teams met for the first time in 1899
and battled to a scoreless draw. Davidson
won it 1900, but State came back to trounce
the ’Cats by a score of 26 to 6 the next year,
but lost the year after that. State won all the
contests played from 1902 to 1925 except
two, which resulted in tied counts. They
piled up their largest margin of victory in
1919 when they overwhelmed the Presby-
terians 36 to 6. The Wildcats turned on the
Pack in 1925 to win 9 to 0, and nosed them
out again in the next year by a three to
nothing count.

Despite the fact that the Wolfpack has
won the majority of the contests played, they
have had no easy time doing it. Almost every
game has been stubbornly fought from. he-

(Continued on Page 5)

Concert to Be Given By
Marine Band on Tuesday

The Charlotte Rotary Club is bringing the
United States Marine Band to Charlotte for
concerts on the afternoon and evening of
Tuesday, November 12. The regular price
for admission to the afternoon and evening
concerts will be $1.00 and $1.50.

As a matter of civic interest, the Rotary
Club is anxious to have these concerts heard
by the largest number of people possible.
The students of Davidson College and the
faculty are invited to these concerts, and for
the evening concert tickets can be purchased
at Davidson for 75c. Tickets will probably
be on sale at the business office of the col-
lege. Special announcements with reference
to this will be made later.

This is one of the: foremost among. the
great military and concert bands of this
country, if not of the entire world. It is
seldom heard outside of the capitol. Every
member is not only a citizens of the United
States, but a musican of unusual ability, hav-
ing been compelled to pass the most rigid
test before being accepted for service. A two
hour rehearsal on five mornings in each week
is required and the average term of service
for the entire personnel of the organiza-
tion is now eighteen years. The present con-
cert tour by this band is by special permis-
sion of the President of the United tSates.
Any profits made from this entertainment
will be devoted to cripple children work.
