THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1929

Collegiate
Comment

ee

FEATURES

Sd

@

Here and
There

aie
4 ’
Music LES NIEGES D’ANTAN
9 e
WA KIM’S KOLUMN NB By NB Know Davidson NZ

‘Horace W. Ervin R. E. W.
ALL-AMERICAN FOOTBALL TEAM NOTES “To him who in love of nature holds | dent could work three hours a day in the
1929 Leopold Stokowski, conductor of the Phila- Communion with her visible forms | ficld, cither at the morning period, from
FIR delphia Symphony Orchestra, reserves the she speaks eight to eleven, or in the afternoon neil
IRST POSITION SECOND right a piqued Be the wowduet St tits A various language; for his gayer from one to four, For this service the
Ben Tickner, Harvard ___________.__ Ceiterl.c. ooo ee Riegels, California | audiences. Despite their rabid disapprobation hours older students were paid a Aiba! totaling
Montgomery, Pittsburgh __.__._____- Guard <2 = sess 2 oo: Anderson, Northwestern | o{ ultra-modern music, Mr. Stokowski has| She has a voice of gladness and a jabout fifteen dollars a session. This
Law, Notre Dame---_--_-_._______.- Gua reese oes ee Swartz, California | ayowed his determination to play what he smile amount was enough to cover the tuition.
Sleight, Purdue ------.-.....-______- WacklevelscesoSco5cce. 0 Naurski, Minnesota | chooses, and urges his listeners oy {ite more] And eloquence of beauty, and she |The younger students WAT: paid only
Armstrong, Dartmouth ___-__________ WACMlOPs ceo kcccecaosuo cue Utz, Pennsylvania tolerant toward present-day music. glides about twelve dollars a session. Thus for

Fesler, Ohio State ___._-____.___________
Donchess, Pittsburgh
Carideo, Notre Dame
Cagle\VA¥iny; 220592225
Uansa, Pittsburgh __...______________.
Musick, Southern California

Booma, Dartmouth
Syebeeanpep prep eer eee Muller, Stanford
Succauecocslcdccuee whee Booth, Yale
McEver, Tennessee
HUssosSU CU Gey eee cee ee Welch, Purdue
Geuecuceoueeueceue Parkinson, Pittsburgh

The selection of an All-American football
team is a favorite detail of our national
sport. Who, at one time or another, has not
picked a team that he or she would would
back against the world? Mr. Grantland Rice
makes an annual choice that is regarded by
many as ‘official.” So do many other lesser
known experts. But any selection must always
be open to criticism.

In the first place, it is rather difficult to
totally suppress any partisan feeling that
might tend to influence the view; or emo-
tional frenzy of the instant, or disappoint-
ment, or personal prejudices that has a dis-
tinct place in the breast and often affects
the reasoning of every football fan.

In the second place, the average fan has
the privilege of witnessing only a very few
outstanding teams in action, Consequently,
his perspective is indeed very limited and: his
ultimate choice must depend upon the press
account of the various games throughout the
season, and upon the records of the separate
teams and individuals.

In the third place, every football season
is so full of highspots; there are so many
moments of raw drama, so ‘many bids for
fame and glory that in the last analysis per-
sonal opinion must figure largely in the final
rating.

Times have changed since the era of the
late Walter Camp's All-American lineups,
which read like the rosters of the Yale,
Princeton and Harvard ‘teams. In the last
decade the West and South have risen to
challenge the time- honoured supremacy of
the East.

In the above tabulation it is interesting to
note that the personnel of the two all-star
elevens hail from widely distributed sections
of the country. There are seven mid-west-
erners, ten easterners, four far-westerners
and one southerner:

Suppose we begin with the backfield. Pub-
lic interest naturally focuses on the men who
carry the ball and is prone to overlook the
flashy play of heroic linesmen who make the
“holes” for their luckier mates.

Just here let us explain the absence of the
name of one of the greatest football players
of recent years—AI Marsters. Only the irony
of fate, in the guise of an injured spine in
mid-season, prevents consideration of Dart-
mouth’s brilliant ace. “Special Delivery” Al
—at the time of his injury, prior to which
he had played in eight games—had passed,
plunged and run roughshod over some of the
most outstanding teams in the East to score
108 points and lead the nation in scoring. A
victim of hard luck, cut down at the zenith
of his playing prowess, he saw his dream of
leading the Easts’ team against the West in
California on New Year’s Day culminate in
a hospital cot in Hanover.

Pause a moment and consider our first-
string backfield—Cagle, Uansa, Musick and
Carideo. Surely no one can offer an appre-
ciable criticism of this great quartet.

As an aftermath of Chris Cagle’s meteoric
career last year certain sports writers have
shown a tendency to minimize his achieve-
ments during the campaign just passed.
Jealous critics haye openely avowed that he
was a mere “flash in the pan.” Such state-
ments distort truth. Dispite Army’s com-
parative poor showing this season, Cagle’s
great all-around play has been strikingly
evident in every contest.

Cagle was good enough to make the All-
American grade for the past two years—a
time when great backs were all too many.
It might have been expected that he was
due for a let-up this season. It is extremely
difficult to maintain perfect form for three
years in a row—but let the records speak

for themselves. ‘The Cadets’ two defeats at
the hands of Illinois and Yale, and the tie
game with Harvard, were marked hy the
running, passing and plunging of this red-
headed, loose-jointed human
“Red” Cagle.

grey-hound

When the University of Pittsburgh's great
juggernaut takes the field, the ghost of the
original “Galloping Ghost,” Red Grange,
streaks up and down the gridiron in. the
person of Toby Uansa. Without a doubt ‘this
fleet-footed youngster is the greatest broken-
field runner
football.

in present-day intercollegiate

Uansa gets into motion with chain light-
ning speed, He never hesitates; never pauses
too long in picking openings. When he runs
and tacklers hurl themselves at him, he
shakes a hip this way, or that way, shimmies
along to one side or the other—just how are
you going to stop a guy like that? Running
back kickoffs for touchdowns seems to be
his hobby. His sensational play has been a
consistent highlight of the Panther’s drive
toward the national championship and his
brilliant ball-toting alone merits him an un-
disputed place on this year’s mythical eleven.

Jim Musick, of Southern California, draws
the fullback assignment by virture of his all-
round ability. At hammering a line he ranks
with Ernie Nevers, Standford star of a few
years ago. Musick ripped Notre Dame's line
to shreds in Chicago this fall, hut Rochne’s
1929 edition of “The Four Horsemen” gal-
loped to touchdowns faster than Musick could
count them by the battering-ram method
Weighing 195 pounds and standing six feet
tall, his is the ideal build to back up a line—
which he did with crushing finality. Add his
exceptional ability as a kicker and passer
and you have the basis for his choice.

Only the presence of Musick keeps Parkin-
son, rated above Uansa by many Smoky
City fans, off our first eleven. Like his
Southern California rival he is a husky
chap—a human pile-driver, who was a con-
tant threat to Pittsburgh’s opponents. As a
big factor in all of the Panther victories, he
consistently crashed through opposing lines
on spinner plays for long gains. A good
blocker, a sure tackler, his defensive work
Was on a par with that of any fullback in
the country.

McEver is, without a doubt, the
greatest halfback that ever wore the colors
of Tennessee. Short of stature, with beetling
brows .and bowed legs, dubbed the “Wild
Bull” by sports writers, he is one of the
fastest moving ball carriers in the nation.
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about
him is his supreme confidence in himself.
Although not of a boastful nature, he frankly
admits that he can perform surprising feats
on the gridiron. And usually he is right.

McEver is the spark-plug of a grid machine
that has been unbeaten in three years—the
leading scorer in the Southern Conference—
the gridiron’s “pinch-hitter” in whose heels
lies destruction.

Purdue University’s brilliant backfield ter-
rorized “Big Ten” opponents in its march
toward the 1929 conference title. For the
third consecutive year ‘Pest’ Welch lived
up to his nickname with a vengeance. Best
known for his great showing against Harvard
two years ago, this package of dynamite had
his greatest season this fall. Equally adept
at hitting the line or running interference;
possessing an uncanny sense for diagnosing
opponent’s plays; an accurate forward passer,
a talented kicker, a dashing broken field
runner. What more can we say?

Its tantalizing to omit such backs as Elder,
Hewitt, Bergherm, Lom, Banker, Karcis,
Glasgow, Pharmer, Savoldi, Masters, Mur-

Gene

“The Outlook and Independent” (New
York), among others, derides the “spoiled
darling’s” piquaney and observes that many
other outstanding conductors mix modern-
all
Observer

ism in their programs with no fuss at
about it. “Truth “The
and Independent,” “Stokowski dearly loves

is,” says
his little sensation, Three years ago; to re-
buke late-comers, he played an entire pro-
gram with members of his orchestra strag-
gling on and off the platform, The following
year he elected to conduct in a darkened hall,
with a single amber light above his shapely
head, This season, ticket-holders who arrive
late must wait) forty-five minutes in the
lobby and enter after the intermission.”
Not all famous men are great enough to
humble Stokowski the
world’s greatest orchestra, and this may have

be may conduct
gone to his head, but common sense should
remind him that his listeners are paying his
salary, and that he
servant, And in polite society servants, public
and otherwise, do not) wholly

is, therefore, a public
ignore. their
employer's wishes.

We receive news that Ignace Paderewski’s
engagement to play in Charlotte in January
has been cancelled, owing to the pianist’s ill
health. Paderewski has always been a favor-
ite in music circles, and it is to be regretted
that Charlotte and vicinity will miss this
opportunity of hearing so great a master.

He made his first appearance in America
in 1891 at Hall. His American
concerts were frequent thereafter until the
World War, at which time he became inter-
ested in political affairs of his own country,
Poland. In 1917 he raised considerable sums
of money and offered the United States an
army of 100,000 men and 50 trained officers.
In 1919 he was elected premier of Poland,

Carnegic

nd the Polish Republic was thereupon recog-
nized by the Allied Council at Paris,

After the war Paderewski again took up
his music. He continued playing and compos-
ing and made more American tours. Plans
for his latest tour have been frustrated by
his illness. His major compositions are two
operas, a symphony, a sonata, and Variations
and Fugue, for piano,

In view of the fact that there are many
students who desire to acquire an appre-
ciation of music but who cannot fit the course
in History and Appreciation of Music into
their programs, Professor Cullum has for-
mulated plans for a series of lecture-recitals
to be given in the Donie Room of Chambers,
presumably in the evening. All interested stu-
dents are invited to attend these meetings,
and no one need fear the word “lecture,”
for, according to Professor Cullum, there will
be less-of talking and more of music, The
Music Department has many victrola record-
ings which will be put to appropriate use in
the course. As yet the date of the first lec-
ture-recital has not been announced.

rell, Clifton and a host of. others too numer-
ous to mention. But what can we do when
places are so limited?

Who but Frank Carideo, Knute Rockne’s
unruffled field-general, could: logically lead
this all-star group? Let Carideo’s bid for a
place rest on his team’s present unblemished
record—a noteworthy achievement that was
due in a large measure to his own faultless
generalship. A great quarterback must neces-
sarily possess all of the vital qualities of lead-
ership, a chess mind, uncanny judgment, an
inspiring personality. But Carideo is more
than a mere master mind. In addition to his
genius as a leader, he can do everything—
punt, drop-kiek; place-kick, pass, hit the line,
skirt the ends—just what ‘else can you expect
from one man?

Carideo had to be good to outrank such
star pilots as Holman, Simral, Putnam,
French, Wittman, Eisan, Saunders, Wood
and Booth. Any one of these men is a logi-
cal choice to lead the second team, but we
think that Albie Booth deserves that honor.
(Continued on page 6)

Into his darker musings with a mild

And healing sympathy that steals
away
There sharpness ere he is aware.”
— Bryant.

Nature is the goddess of all things.
Every act of man can be traced to her
own mind; each thought man holds; each
love that him; all that
speak to him; these let fall clues leading
at last to Nature’s lair. The spirits of
heaven and hell obey that bidding. Some-
times they rise in anger, sweep away the
impotent insect called man, and laugh at
his futile endeavors to resist; again they

sways tongues

ate harbingers of excellent beauty. Fer-
tility is the goddess and Nature is her
name. From this old earth have come all
great creations; paintings, poetry, beauty,
life:
patches of brown, black, green, like an in-

love; each passionate © mood of
tersected filigree of lightness and dark.

The sustenance of man comes from Na-
ture; his food, his plowshares, — his
weapons, his gold, his clothing, the cover-
ing for his home, even unto his life.

In 1837 when the college was founded,
Dr.
dent and as his assistant, Thomas Robin-
son, Mr. Robinson was steward as well as
superintendent, He realized that expenses

could be lessened by using college prop-

Hall Morrison was appointed presi-

erty to raise foodstuffs and cotton. So a
system was founded whereby each stu-

several years the students were fed from
the college farm, and a little income was
brought in through the sale of cotton.

“Look to the rose that blows about
us—Lo,
Laughing, she says, into the world I
blow:
At once the silken tassel of my purse
Tear, and its treasures on the garden

throw.”

There are two things in the life of every
man: cash and credit. Cash is the price
he pays in today; credit is the sum he
leaves for the tomorrow. It is his inter-
est; his accounting; his reward, Ability
is the catafalque of credit; reward is the
ciborium of ability; ability, reward, credit
are the sodality.

Shadows creep over the whole world,
crawl in, crawl out. Deep shadows, dense
as the fog of the thousand seas, wavering
as the mind of love, long as the expres-
sion of infinity. And they are the net-
works of nature: here is happiness, here
sorrow: there is love, here hate; there
is life, here death, Eternities of growing
shades, lavish in their distribution of
checkered fates. Shadows creep out, coil
back; writhe on{ die out, gain power, seek
life, lounge on and on, and man goes as
the shadows go; driven as the shadows
are driven; obeys nature as the shadows

(Continued on page 6)
+

A Minister of the Gospel
SHOULD BI

As well equipped in his special field as any other man is in his
specialty.
TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF
/ UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President -
Richmond, Virginia.

+

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

COMPACTS

Pre-Holiday Sale on a Large Assortment

Make Our Store Your Store

White Drug Company

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

