THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

ATHLETIC

=

Side Line Shots

At the ’Cats Against Big Five
Teams

By P. R. Alderman

From all appearances the Wildcats are
getting a habit of holding back in the
first half and then turning loose with a
double amount of determination and fight
in the second petiod. This custom was
taken up in the Citadel game and proved
so profitable that the Cats continued it
in the Wake Forest, V. M. I. and State
contests with victory resulting once and a
close contest twice.

There were a lot of things to make
that win over the
the highspots of th
followers of the Red an
important of these was aps the
fact that this is the first Big Five
game that the latter have won since
1926 when the final result was the
State championship. Maybe this has
broken a long losing streak and the
Cats are ready to cause trouble with
Big Five members.

Althought our passes were not working
as well as usual against the State eleven,
the two touchdowns that proved the lat-
ter’s defeat came by the aerial route. Two
of their heaves found the waiting arms
of McCall and DeCamp. Joe doesn’t seem
to think he’s had his fun out of a game
until he’s nabbed a pass from somebody
and_galloped.70_or-80. yards—for—a—tally,
That suits us!

The two most costly things to the
Wolfpack last Saturday were their
fumbles and passes. Bud Raker and
the rest of the line had the old pig-
skin so well covered that they were
on it the second it was free. If the
opposing eleven has a tendency to
fumble the way most open to victory
is to grab these miscues before they
can be removed.

All in all neither the Wildcats nor the
Wolfpack were at their best last week.
Both were off in their passing attacks,
their linebucking was comparatively weak
and fumbles proved costly, especially to
the latter. The fact that the Cats were
due for a letdown after their great fight
against V. M. I. and the comparative
greenness of the Tech eleven had a lot
to do with this.

Two more games and it will all be
over, but what games they are! The
North Carolina Tar Heels broadcast
the fact that they are one of the
strongest in Dixie by their 40-0 vic-
tory over the South Carolina Game-
cocks down at Columbia. As has been
said, their great season has been mar-
red only by one quarter of the Geor-
gia game.

Duke seems to be on their feet at last.
After undertaking a schedule that would
have been tough for an even stronger
team, the Blue Devils have pulled to-
gether and in their first conference game
downed L. S. U. by a four touchdown
victory. They have not met a member of
the Big Five yet but will prove trouble

There’s not a chance in a thousand
that ‘anyone would predict a victory
for the Wildcats over Carolina today
but the chance is almost equally slim
that anybody would forecast that the
Tar Heels will leave their first string-
ers at home. The Cats have run true
to form so far and played their worst
game against Wake Forst, which in-
dicates that one of their best exhibi-

’Cats Intercept Passes

To Down State Eleven|

Davidson Overcomes Wolfpack 13-0
to Score F wet ee Five” Win of
ear

The Davidson Wildcats, playing wide-
awake football against N. C. State last Sat-
urday, trounced the Wolfpack by a score of
13 to 0. The 'Cats took advantage of every
break of the game and turned them all to
their favor, Several State fumbles were re-
covered by red-jersied players and the Wild-
cats intercepted five passes.

Two of the intercepted heaves proved the
undoing of the Wolfpack for both of the
Davidson counters resulted from them. Late
in. the third quarter Brock and Decamp
rushed an attempted State pass, the former
batting the ball into the hands of the latter,
who ran to the State one-yard line. Fraley
rammed the ball over and Brock missed the
point after the touchdown. Near the middle
of the last period the pack tried a long pass
from midfield, and McCall intercepted it on
his own 30 yard line. He had a good start
and outran the entire State team to score.
Brock kicked the goal to make the score 13
to 0 in favor of Davidson.

Neither team showed much in the way of
prolonged offensive) power at any time. Late
in the first stanza a poor punt enabled State
to carry the ball to Davidson’s 14-yard line,
but there they lost it on down. Davidson
kicked and Proctor, recovered a fumble on
State’s 47 yard line.

Davidson was rushed off their feet at the
beginning of the third period and found State
deep in their territory. A 25 yard dash by
Milton and a 10 yard gain by Wright. fea-
tured the advance But just as things were
beginning to look bad, McCall rushed in and
intercepted a pass to give Davidson the ball.

The Wildcat offense was confined strictly
to a running attack. Although a number of
passes were tried, none were completed, the
‘Cats showing up bad in that department,
but the defense that Coach Monk had given
them for their opponent’s passes was work-
ing to perfection.

Wright and Jeffrey played good games in
the State backfield, their work giving the
’Cat forwards, a great deal of trouble. Melton
got off one or two nice runs, but he was
covered for the most part. Captain Lepo
played a good game in the line.

The Davidson ends, Brock and Proctor,
were outstanding in the line. Proctor was
wide awake all the time, recovering two
fumbles by the Wolfpack. Parker at tackle
and Milton at center also showed up well.

McCall continued his fine work in the
backfield-and he was ably assisted by Par-
rish. Fraley backed up the line in fine style,
as well as playing a brilliant offensive game.

Lineup:

Davidson Position N. C. State
Brock (c) -------- ) L) Dy payee eens Morgan
Raketeeececuess | iS PR ee Lepo (c)
Decamp ---------- ] BL & gpa Sa a Vann
Milton eoese 2222 Center: sckse Soe8 Stout
Mathisecn nce csce RG veose sso kee May
Covington ~------- 133) Yee er Smathers
Proctor. 2-<=-<s RB ssccckeuece Jordan
Fraley ------ QB. Wright
Parrish: 2o-2..--25 GG secs Se Dellinger
MeCalte soe 5o5 es Roe cee es Davant
King WBvcrssassocS Jeffrey
Score by periods:
Davidson ~-------- fear 0 0 6 7—13
IN Ge Statersne tae cose 000 00

Scoring: Davidson touchdowns, McCall,
Fraley. Point after touchdown, Brock (place
kick).

Officials: Referee, Carrington (Virginia) ;
umpire, Magoffin. (Michigan); linesman,
Brewer (Maryland).

Dr. Porter Vinson, Davidson alumnus,
foremost specialist on the, Aesophagus, and
member of the Mayo Clinic of Rochester,
Minn., has been visiting his sister, Miss
Maude Vinson for the past week.

tions will be against Carolina. There'll
be plenty of fight!

Davidson-State

Statistics

All Americans Win

Over Gastonia Team

Bradshaw Star for Davidson—
Whisnant for Losers

eh asa oie Last Monday the Wildcat All Americans
First Downs --.-- 8 7 journeyed to Gastonia and won a_ victory
Penalties -------- 20 yds. = 25 yds. from latter 12-6. Although the Davidson
Ground gained eleven outplayed the home team, the score
from scrimmage 129 yds. 113 yds. at the end of the half was tied, 6-6, the Gas-
Ground gained tonia touchdown being scored in the last
On passes ----_- 0 29 yds. thirty seconds of play in the second quarter
Passes attempted 11 13 by a’ beautiful pass from Whistnant te
Passes completed__ 0 3 Griggs, who took the ball to Davidson's two
Passes inch line. There the Wildcats made a typical
intercepted ____- 5 1 stand with their backs to the wall, and held
Average length of for three downs, only to give way to a plunge Ledyard DeCamp, who has proven one of
punts and by W histnant who took ne ball over. a the tektsonsiitant werkdeedin the Died:
kick-offs __..__.32 yds. 34 yds. Fat ate Stes cine by hick son line this year, intercepted a Wolfpack
Fumbles -_--.----- 0 3 Bradshaw, Dick Bradshaw again carrying pale ete ruraey ce weve cee wey ror
Fumbles element borin aid ae x: the first touchdown of the ’Cats.
the ball over for the Wildcats.
recovered ------- 3 \) It was a Davidson game all the way
Av. Yardage passes through, the Bradshaws brothers starring. Mr. Sam Black of Davidson is changing
completed ---------- 0 10 yds. Covington, whose punting was outstanding | his headquarters from New York to Albe-
and Whistnant were best for Gastonia. marle. :
— we i

SPRINKLE

YOUR
DAY WITH

Camets

CHEER

Consider the pleasure

that curls from each Camel Ly Let it mark

the stops and turns of a busy day ry and

sprinkle your thoughts and moods with its rare

aroma g ‘As you pass from one thing to

another

call “‘time out’’ now and then g

for a fragrant interlude g and have a Camel

gS just because it’s good!

Always count on Camels for an extra measure of pleasure.
They never tire your taste nor leave an unpleasant after-
taste. To have a Camel “just because it’s good” means
you'll find each Camel cool and refreshing . . . mild and
mellow .. . blended from the choicest tobaccos grown.

1929, R. J. Reynelds Tobacco
4 Wis Sal N.C

|

