Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

January 17, 1929

—_

THE. DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of
Davidson lege

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

BROWN.-...----.-. -Editor-in-Chief
Wis cas sacssns Bnsiness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

AUBREY
W. M. PO

F. D. MILLER...-..--.------- Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT..... -Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT-. -Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG... orts Editor
Vv. A. MILTON -News Editor
P) By) RRYscccs Society Editor
D. P, ANDERSO -Feature Editor
. W. McCUTCH Assistant Editor
}: L. BROWN. Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE.. Associate Editor
. B. MORIAR --Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT........--Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Li Ay MIMD Sietetsceceeences Asst. Bus. Mer.
E. H. McC. Asst. Bus. Mer
W. B. -Asst. Bus. Mgr
R. F. S ---Circulation Mgr.
H. B. .-Subscription Mg
H. Mc 1
G. D.
ii A.
. D.
f L
. W.M
ae
Cc. H. DUBOSE V. C. RAGIN
ih R. GRA M D. RUSK
. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
S. H.. L S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1929

And as we turn to these sterner
things of life-the aspect is not exact-
ly what you might term pleasant for
the next ten days. It’s just a case
of examinations, that’s all.

If “etc’’ means, as the British
schoolboy said, ‘something to make
people think you know more .than
you do”, then professors may ex-
pect much of et cetera#on exam pa-
pers.

All'this talk of examinations re-
minds us that there will be time out
for The Davidsonian until January
31st. For one thing, there will be
a rest from the pestilence of mana-
ging editors, magazine reviewers,
Open Forum articles, all kinds of
critics for a while. Then, there may
be enough happenings to fill up the
columns with something besides
what the other colleges are doing.
What this place needs is more news-
seekers on a big scale.

CHARGE IT TO THE
FACULTY

Just what the entertainment be-
ing arranged by the Faculty in honor
of the Senior Class and guests for
next month is going to be we don’t
know exactly, but the very effort on
their part calls for a word of com-
mendation and .appreciation from
these columns,

Davidson, so situated and so re-
stricted, is almost barren of any-
thing pertaining to or bordering on
social activity. It is an unfortunate
circumstance that those in charge of
student activity have so little in the
way of materials and places in which
to work and plan student functions
that their efforts meet with little re-
sponse. And so every attempt. to
provide more social contacts for
Davidsonians, who usually are forc-
ed to seek their entertainment else-
where, is welcomed unreservedly.

In this first entertainment of the
Seniors, there should be a splendid
response, not only in appreciation
of the Faculty and the invitation ex-
tended but that more social life in the
future may be made possible for the
student body.

Practically every senior will have
a guest here for this occasion. And
every senior should plan to respond
to the invitation and to cooperate
with the committees in charge.

COLLEGE, FOR WHAT
PURPOSE?

In the seemingly, ever-moving
stream of student activity, one may
swiftly be submerged and be played
upon by forces of the college life
which remove one from the realm
wherein ‘he takes thought of his pur-
poses and hi8 desires concerning his
future until the resulting condition
is cause for concern.

“Just what is this thing of college
all about?” he asks, if he stops to

think. “What do I hope. to carry!

with me besides a diploma when I
leave this institution?” the serious
one may wonder.

As many different responses will
be given to these queries as the num-
ber of men approached. One who
has succeeded scholastically,, who
has made high grades, rests comfort-
ably with the satisfaction of having
accomplished his tasks in a manner
recognized as best by the education-
al world. One who has accepted
his courses only as necessary evils in
acquiring a college education tells of
social benefits, of friendships forn.
ed, and of happy menhories of past
experiences. One after another may
offer some distinct advantage which
college has offered him. An advan-

tage which he has grasped and util-

ized and therefore would tend to-
ward making him a success “in his
line’ rather than a failure. This
opportunity which he has made use
of seems to be the main purpose of
the college, or so he says.

Chancellor E. A. Burnet of the
University of Nebraska gives his
ideas as to what one should obtain
from attendance at an institution of
higher learning. His tests for the
true education are:
“Does it stimulate a thirst for
knowledge?
“Does it increase the general in-
formation and the general culture?
“Does it develop reason and a jud-
cial attitude through an enlarged
historic background ?
“Does it teach specific technical
knowledge by which one may be-
come economically proficient ?
“Does it develop intellectual pow-
er; does it promote education that
is self-starting and self-propelling ?
“Does it make for physical and
moral fittess 7
“Does it develop initiative to cope
with the problems of life?
“Does it develop character and a
sense of public obligation rather
than selfishness and snobbery ?
“Does it challenge the individual
to more effective service and leader-
ship?”

Measured by this standard of the
“true education”, how much of it
have you received ?

IMPROVED CHAPEL
SERVICE

At the opening of this college sem-
ester, the student body petitioned
the Faculty that students be allow-
ed to conduct the devotionals in the
morning chapel. These students
were to be selected by members of
the Y. M..C. A. cabinet, each of
which, body was to be responsible
for the choice of leaders for a set
time,

\fter due consideration the facul-
ty granted this petition, Dr. Martin
stated at the time that the arrange-
ment would not be one of a perma-
hent nature, in case that, after due
trial, it was shown to be more unsat-
isfactory than the former arrange-
ment.

This plan was suggested and
adopted tentatively through the de-
sire to see the student getting the
most that is possible from the period.
And it was the general feeling at
the time of the adoption of the plan
that the student body would feel
more closely connected with the de-
votional exercises, and would really
get more from them, if one of their
own number were the leader,

Now that the system has been in
effect for some time, and we may
begin to judge it, the question na-
turally arises, Is the new plan of
leadership better than the former ?

That it is, beyond a doubt, much
hetter—at least from the student's
point of view—is our firm belief.
In the first place, there is now al-
ways some interest in the leader,
for he is, if we may judge from the
past, one with some ability to lead
services of such a nature. More
powerful in the provoking of interest
perhaps, is the fact that the face
will be new, and the point of view
different. Most influencing, how-
ever, is the knoWledge that the

speaker will be one of us and that he

‘Freshmen shall

Cosmic Chaos

By J. W. McCutchan

Murder and arson are the charges
brought against Jacob Vanderburg,
Gaston county youth, found sitting on
the roadside not far from the burning
house where the bodies of the other
members of hig family were found.
He persistently denies participation in
the crime. Professor Brandorine, who
is will be recalled took such an active
part in the “love powders trial,” de-
clares he has found the boy to be in-
nogent by gazing through his crystal.

Claiming membership in the Order
of White Rats, Brandorine admits,
modestly enough, that he is one of the
best magicians and soothsayers in the
country. It hardly behooves the un-
iniated to speak with assurance on
the occult sciences, but it would ap-
pear that wealth, as was at hand in
the now almost forgotten Leopold-
Loeb case, would be of more avail than
the bearded “Professor.”

Among others who have this writer’s
sympathy as well as pity might be
mentioned George McManus and Tad.
Turning out their daily Jiggses and
Knights of the Pool Room must neces-
sity become boresome. McManus was
forced to his profession’ through mis-
fortune in a love affair. A desire for
revenge propelled him, He got it. Tad,
likewise, was the victim of the Fates.
Caricatures of the faculty at Dart-
mouth were not considered “the thing”
in his day. Expelled from that insti-
tution he naturally turned to his weak-
ness for his livlihood. Let the David-
sonian cartoonist beware!

Hurrah for the “?” Perhaps that
worthy writer, Mr. Brisbane will sign
off for the time being on the question
of our country’s deficiency in aviation.
Eclipsing all records the plane piloted
by army fliers, remained in the air for
more than 150 hours. Japan‘s remark-
able production of pursuit and bomb-
ing planes, “which are undoubtedly to
be sent against Philippines,” has been
forgotten; also the temporary excel-
lence of Europe's aeronautical engin-
eers,

And the stock market slumped. Er
ratic trading has been the feature on
Wall Street since the New Year.
Stocks have gone up and down, but
trading has fallen off and conserva-
tism is the pass word of the day. Per-
haps it will astonish some who thought
of the last election as assuring the re-
turn of Big Business. But the financial
magnates are crafty and “withal crafty
and sunning;” a civil engineer has not
sat in the presidential chair for years.
His policy is doubtful. Incidentally it
is hard to pin him to the party’s share
of the spoils while he is “good willing”
in South America. But don’t sell
America short!!

Always colorful and one of the best
known figures in sporting circles, Tex
Rickard will not pass unnoticed. As
a promoter of fisticuffs, he was a
genius, a financier, an unerring judge
of the whims of the mob. A true
friend to both fighters and sports writ-
ers, he did much to improve the repu-
tation of prize fighting. Times have

(Continued on page 6)

Hotchpot

By Kendrick Pritchett

~~ WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

What is the effect of new inventions
on wage-earners? When Ford changed
models, it was estimated that, beside
the scrapping of millions of dollars
worth of machinery, about 60,000 peo-
ple in Detroit lost their jobs, At $6
a day, this meant a loss of $9,000,000 a
month to the wage earners. During
that périod the Community Fund in
Detroit had to ask $600,000 more for
additional -relief. In six years the
quantity output in manufacturing in-
dustries increased by over 28 per cent,
but there were almost a million fewer
workers employed. The recent decla-
ration by a president-elect that “by the
hundreds of thousands” these scrapped
workers” are being transferred to our
insurance and banking offices” may be
dismissed as political hokum. Our
steel plants, shoe factories, copper
smelters, automobile plants and lum-
ber mills have capacities of from 70 to
over 300 per cent above what the mar-
ket can absorb. Abraham Epstein
says, “Indeed, the radical critics pin
their revolutionary hopes on this di-
lemma of increasing unemployment and
accelerated work-speed.”

Try as this column could, we could
not resist the temptation to publish
some poetry to rival that of the psit-
taceous, katzenjammer Chameleon,
composed in their high-brow Horatio
Alger style to the nth power, with the
same shillelah swing and of as much
consequence to you and me as the ad-
dresses of all the Smiths in the tele-
phone directory of Kalamazoo, Michi-
gan. If our derelict magazine wants
buncombe, why don’t they publish
something like this?

Hickory, dickory, dock,

The mouse ran up the sock.
The lassie cried — Twas from pure
fright.

The sight we saw-—-Good night—or,

There, little speakeasy,
Don't you cry,

You'll be another one
By‘and by.

But that is as much of the poem as
will ever see the light. Unless Mr. Du-
rant wants to pay $25,000 for the other
thirteen verses.‘

We have heard so much about the
average man that we have begun to
wonder what he is like. Psychologists
and sociologists have been busy paint-
ing a picture of this average man, ad-
ding a stroke here and a stroke there
as their researches proceed. He are
some of the things they say about him
(and Dr. Glenn Frank is our author-
ity):

He is rated in the scores of the
mental tests at about the level of four-
teen years.

He does not go beyond the eighth
grade in school.

He speaks only one language, and
that one neither with finessee
finish,

His vocabulary. rarely exceeds sev-
enty-five hundred words, whereas the
average high school graduate has a
vocabulary nearly double that num-
ber,

nor

(Continued on page 6)

OPEN FORUM

FRESHMEN AND THE POST
OFFICE
The Editor:

As a member of the student body I
wish to take issue with some state-
ments which appeared in the Open
Forum column of last week’s issue.
The statements to which I refer are
those purporting to be in some way
about the question, Resolved: That
not enter the Post
Office until some time after Chapel.
The gentleman was supposedly of the
Negative side.

I do not know whether I am holding
myself up as an object of laughter in
mentioning the side which he claims to
champion, or not. For the arguments

looks at life from our side of the
border of actual reality.

It is true that frequently the lead-
ers have been of an inferior ability
to that of the faculty leaders. But
when we consider that the disturb-
ance: of former days, have occurred
only very rarely, and that the stud-
ents as a whole do seem to be taking
a. greater interest in Chapel, we do
niost earnestly hope that the “powers
that be” will not see fit to revoke
the present regime of affairs.

—C. M. P.

he brought forth are so very childish—

or senile (for they were certainly ex-
treme), that he must have been real-
ly tryingto show how good the pres-
ent system is, while professing to show
its weak points.

In the first place, the gentleman
bases his whole outburst upon the rea-
soning that it is a more common-sense
plan to be jostled about a very little,
than it is to have to make—here his
keen humor is apparent—two or three
trips to and from the door to give
freshmen their mail,

A new idea occurs.. Surely the
gentlemen must be a freshman: for
otherwise he would remember the one
or two times that he has gone down
to get mail after chapel; and, after
getting within a few yards of'his box
in fifteen or twenty minutes, being
nearly crushed to death, and so hem-
med in that he might in no way reach
his final destination.

In the future I should like to suggest
that he be freed from having to make
one trip for freshmen’s mail each day,
or at the most, two trips.

In respect to the other Open Forum
contribution, can we not in the future
let all matters of history be confined
to the history classes. There semes to
be no adequate excuse for digging
around in our peaceful, bucolic sur-
roundings, merely to see the dust fly.

(Continued on page 6)

{
J THE BULL PEN

Don Marquis, iamous author and “reformed columnist,” in a recent article,
discloses to the public that writing a column isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. Echo
answers “Ditto.” This might be a poor excuse for a column, but just the same,
it is a column, and does its duty as a column—occupies a column of space. And
writing it is no picnic. Copy fro mother papers, and we are termed non-original.
Print our own jokes, and we fail to be humorous, Be most refined, and our column
falls filat. Be unrefined, and the only space this writing fills is the editor’s waste
basket. If we try to make this a dignified type of humor, and we are trying to
be too serious like. Be light with the humor, and we are called silly. Say some-
thing about Cal, congress, or the democratic party and, positively, we are copying
Will Rogers, regardless of the fact that the newspaper man stopped our Observer
months ago for not paying for it, and hence stopped out perusal of Will’s front
page box.

“How do you write so well day after day, month after month? How do you
think of things to write?”, the general public inquires of the columnist of a big
newspaper, says Don Marquis. “Oh, it’s easy as eating pie,” is the reply they get.
And the newspaper man tells another lie. “How do you think of such fool bull?”
they ask us. “Oh it's simple”, is the standard reply (Remember the motto of
Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper: “The truth must be carefully avoided at all
times.”’)

But it is not simple. Usually, an hour suffices to type this bull off. But it
usually takes four or five class periods under easy-talking profs, and several labs
to think of what to write.

Like our alarm clock, this can’t keep up forever. It has a certain unbreakable
charm that holds one (something like Kipling’s description of the Orient: You
can’t break away from it.) That, please couldn't you, is our one and only excuse
for keeping’ this up. Though we like it lots, we must leave some day. And so, for
the benefit of other raving maniacs and complete idiots who would like the job
some day, we print the following rules for writing “The Bull Pen,” together with
certain attributes the editor must have:

SOME BULL ON BULLING

1, The editor of this space must, besides being crazy enough to take the job,
be expert at shooting the bull.

2. He must have at least six classes a week lecture courses (this gives one
ample time for mental loafing).

3. He should take at least one course under profs given over to telling
humorous incidents they experienced personally (this gives one at least one page
ot bull a month),

4. Immediately after class, dash madly for the junk pile (once a typewriter)
and put in black and white all, if any, of the humor gleaned.

5. Keep a plentiful supply of so-called humorous magazines, college monthly
funny named magazines (also so-called humorous), Copy when necessary.

6. Frequent places of question: college boarding houses, bull sessions, U Push
ims to and from, ete. ’

.
TRUE STORIES OF COLEGE LIFE

A chap we knew at a northern technical school was a fiend for solitaire. So
niuch so, that he would dash to his room between classes to change books, etc.,
and in that short time, standing up, clad in slicker and slouch hat, indulged ina
game of this amusing past-time. What a life!

“Life is very simple; it consists merely in learning how to accept the impossible,
how to do without the indispensable, how to endure the insufferable. What could
be easier ?”

Must be great, ch? If you don’t weaken—but who wants to be strong?

oF

THINGS WE LEARNED FROM GIRLS AT QUEENS

by Davidson ’27

1. That's one’s college education doesn’t come entirely from books,

2. With a “blind” date, you have t@teel your way along slowly and carefully.

3. Converse and N. C. C. W. aren’t so hot.

4. The love that “lies in a girl’s eyes” often does so.

5. The Freshman class isn’t, by a long shot, as dumb as their upperclassmen
think.

6. That Saturday night has other purposes than commonly thought—try and
get a date any other night.

7. Queen's girls never say “No!"—They yell it. ‘

8—

9.—
f 10.—

11. (last four remarks censored).

12. That, ACtually, this isn't such a bad old world.

13. It's team work that counts, All dates work together. Hurrah for the
mob!

ADVICE TO GIRLS
Dear Miss Prude,
Last week-end I had my first date with a Davidson man. He asked to kiss me,
and—well, that’s my weakness now. I am worried. Will he come to see me next
week or will he think I'm just like all other girls? What should I do?

; “Worried”
‘ Worried”,

My advice is this: By next week-end, either have your telephone removed or
else prepare to receive the whole Davidson student body. Take your choice. Don’t
Worry, even though he knows you are just like all girls—they always come back
1or more. ~

Sincerely,
Miss Prude,

(Editor's Note :—Write in any problems you may have to Miss Prude, care of

this column. )

VIEWS.AND REVIEWS

By Chatham Clark

E. Phillip Oppenheim, in an inter- | “Labels” we were very much pleased

view just before he returned from|with the writings of A. Hamilton
New York gave the latest literary

Gibbs, but his: latest book, “Harness,”
is awful, or in more literary terms,
rather disappointing. We have ad-
mired Mr. Gibbs for giving us q pic-
ture of real rural England, thus giving
our would-be modern writers a chance
to bring in the life of the titled class
and the title seekers,

A mild criticism could be offered as
to the way that the author has his
characters situated, Usually in an old
English garden drinking rivers of tea,
even this repetition could not touch
that outstanding factor, “The After-
wath of a War” To say that this sub-
ject has been overworked is \but put-
ting it lightly, but to have an author
basing the theme of three consecutive
books on this subject, is a little more
than an intelligent public can tolerate.

As usual, the description is very near
Perfect, and very near the same that is
found in his other books. A goo sug-

market report. And who could be a
better authority? «

“Sex is dropping a little,” he said,
“and crime is coming again, A good
sound romantic story fis what the
American wants. In England where
the sex story has always been popu-
lar the demand ‘remains the same.
I get less translation rights into
French, they want nothing else. I get
less translation rights into French than
even into Jugo-Slavian, I attribute
my popularity to keeping away from
sex.”

Mr. Oppenheim’s latest novel (his
104th) is “Matorni’s Vineyard,” the
story of an Italian dictator of 1940.
His ro5th novel will make its appear-
ance on January 26th under the title
of “The Treasure House of Martin
Hews.” His stories are always inter-
esting and somewhat unusual, and on
January 26th we can be sure of finding

a book that. will at least live up to his
standard, if not even surpassing it.
When we read “Soundings,” and

gestion is.to re-read, “Labels” chang-
ing the names of its characters, and
Save your $250, You will get even
more than your money‘s worth.
