2

X

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

Play-By-Play Report

V. M. GAME ss

Biggs kicked off to McCall, but V. M.
I. was offside and the ball was brought
back, V. M. I. kicking off from the thirty-
five yard line. Biggs kicked off to McCall
who returned 35 yards to his own 44 yard
line. King lost a yard, but. McCall gained
it back. Fraley’s pass failed. Brock kicked
to Hawkins, who returned five yard to
his own 14 yard line. Biggs got six yard
around left end. Wright got three over
center, and hit the same place again for a
first down on his 37 yard line. Hawkins
got seven over guard and Wright re-
peated with 2. Wright carried the ball
again four and made first down in mid-
field. Biggs was stopped at end only a
yard, Hawkins and Wright got seven on
two tries at center} and Wright kicked
to Davidson’s fifteen yard line, where
Smith downed the ball,

Fraley was stopped for no gain, and
Brock kicked to Hawkins on his 40 yard
line. He returned it to Davidson's 44 yard
line.

Biggs got two over tackle. Biggs passed
to Hawkins for five yards, Fraley tackling
the réceiver as he caught the ball. Biggs
Passed again, this time to Scott who was
downed on Davidson's 12 yard line. Biggs
was stopped, but Wright got five yards
Over right guard. McCray got five more
at the same spot, but barely missed a first
down. Wright made the yardage. Wright
fumbled and Baker, Davidson tackle re-
covered on his own five yard line.

McCall spun over right tackle for 11
yards and a first down. Parrish hit the
same spot for three more. Brock kicked
to Hawkins who returned five yards to
his forty-five yard line. Hawkins lost four
yards, Wright gained one. Biggs’ pass
fails. Hawkins kicked to Davidson's 12
yard line as the quarter ended.

Second Quarter

McCall got three, King was stopped for
no gain. Brock kicked to Hawkins, who
was downed on Davidson's forty yard
line. Biggs got only half a yard at tackle.
McCray hit center for seven yards. He
went over right tackle for a first down on
Davidson’s 27 yard line. Hawkins got two
and gained four more on a fake. Biggs
made first down by inches over center.
Biggs went around right end for five
yards. He had no success at the other end.
Wright hit center for a first down on the
five yard line. Wright got one yard
through center. Hawkins made a foot at
tackle. Wright hit center for a touch-

«down. Scott’s placekick was no good.
. Score: V. M. I. 6, Davidson 0.

Biggs kicked over the goal line. David-
son has the ball on her own 20 yard line.
Parrish stopped for no gain around end.
Parrish hits V. M. I. player and is ejected
from the game. Davidson penalized half
distance to goal. Goodykoontz for Par-
rish. King got five yards around left end.
McCall picked up five more off tackle.
Brock punts to V. M. I. 37 yard line.

Hawkins picked up 18 yards and first
down. Time out for Davidson. Biggs got
five around end. Wright got four more
over right guard. Wright made its first
down on Davidson’s, 31. yard line. Hawkins
tried an end run and lost five yards, Mc-
Cray forced out of bounds for no gain.
Scott’s pass broken up by King. Hawkins
kicks and Scott downs the ball on David-

‘son’s 4 yard line. Marklis for Haase.

Brock punts poorly for 25 yards, Biggs
passes 6 yards to Hawkins. McCray goes
over tackle for first down on Davidson’s
15 yard line. Wright got 7 more at the
same spot. Mills for Mathis. Wright tried
left tackle for two yards. McCray made
it first down on Davidson’s four yard
line. McCray goes over left ~guard for
touchdown, McCray tried a line buck for
extra point, but failed, V. M. I. 12; David-
son 0. Parker for DeCamp. Gregory for
Scott. Grow for Gravatte. Laughorn for
Hawkins.

Biggs kicked to McCall on Davidson’s
10 yard line. He returned to his 45 yard
line. Fraley got four yards over right
tackle. Willard for Marklis. D. Bradshaw
for King. Davidson attempted a pass, but
it was fumbled, and Laughorn recovered
on Davidson's 37 yard line. Laughon pass-
ed to Palmer for 11 yards as the half
ended. V. M. I. 12; Davidson 0.

Third Quarter

Chapman for V. Grow. Biggs kicked to
McCall on Davidson’s 10 yard line. He re-
turned to his own 40 yard line. Hawkins
and Scott are back in lineup.
Fraley made four over. tackle. Brock’s
pass failed. McCall got only one yard.
‘Brock kicks to Hawkins who returns 10

“yards to his own 30 yard line, Biggs

passes to Scott for 26 yards. Hawkins got
three yards around end. Hawkins got
three more through the line. Biggs’ pass
is grounded. McCall interfered with re-
ceiver and pass goes as completed. V. M.
I’s ball on Davidson’s 29 yard _line.

McCray hits right quards for five yards.
McCray was stopped for no gain. Mc-
Cray goes over left tackle for 4 yards.
McCray made first down by -inches. Mc-
Cray lost a yard and Biggs.got nothing.
McCray hit tackle for six yards. A lateral
pass from Biggs to Hawkins gained only
four yards, and the ball went over on the
one yard line. Brock kicked to Hawkins
on Davidson’s 27 yard line, making a fair
catch. Biggs lost two on a fumble. A
double pass lost four more. Time out for
V. M. I. Biggs faked ‘a pass and gained
five yards. Scott’s place kick for a field
goal from the 35 yard line was short.
Davidson’s ball on her own 20 yard line.
McCall got four yard through center and
King got another. Brock faked a kick
and ran with the ball, making it first
down. Fraley got four through center.
Brock passed to McCall for 27 yards and
a first down on V. M. I.’s 38 yard line.
Grow for Chapman. Fraley gets no gain.
King got one. Hawkins intercepted a pass
on his own 15 yard line and returned 10
yards. Biggs got four yards around right
end. McCray was run out of bounds for
no gain. McCray kicked to McCall who
was downed in his tracks. The ball is on
the 25 yard line. McCall got a yard over
left tackle. Fraley got five more. Brock
passed to McCall for 15 yards.
McCall received the pass, dodged
four or five V. M. I. men and dashed 55
yard for a touchdown. Brock missed his
second goal in nine attempts. Quarter end-
ed. Score V. M. I, 12, Davidson 6.

Fourth Quarter

Hawkins received and returned to_his
own 35 yard line. Three plays gained only
five yards. Willard for Smith. Biggs pass-
ed to Hawkins for 35 yards, placing the
ball on Davidson’s 30 yard line. Biggs got
four, then McCray made it first down.
Mills for DeCamp. Hawkins thrown for
five yard loss. Biggs passes to Scott and
to Palmer were both missed by receiv-
ers. Biggs’ pass to Scott went over the
goal line.

Davidson’s ball on her own 20 yard line.
McCall hurt as he gets no gain. Brock
passes 35 yards to Goodykoontz. Brock
passes again to Goodykoontz for 25 yards
and first down on V. M. I. 40 yard line.
Fraley passes to King for 6 yards. Goody-
koontz missed a passed from Brock.
Hawkins knocks down Brock’s pass and
the ball goes over.

Hawkins went eight yard around end.
McCray got first down on his own 9 yard
line. Biggs got only two yards at end.
Davidson penalized five yard for offside.
Biggs for four yards at right tackle.
Bailey got two through center. McCray
got three more. Biggs pass was blocked
and it was Davidson’s ball on her own
36 yard line. King thrown for a yard loss.
Brock passed to Bradshaw for a first
down on V. M. I. 46 yard line. Gregory
intercepted Fraley’s pass on his 40 yard
line. Holtclaw lost a yard. Hawkins got
five around end. Hawkins, kicked and
Marquis downed .the ball on Davidson’s
24 yard line. King lost five yards. Brock’s
pass was no good. Biggs intercepted a
pass on Davidson's 44 yard line and the
game ended. Final score, V. M. I. 12, Dav-
idson 6,

“Did you fill your date last night?”
“T hope so, she ate everything in sight.”

All Davidson Radio

Program Next Week|

Arrangements have been made for the
annual Davidson College broadcast over
Station WBT, which has been under the
auspices of the alumni, association of the
college for the past two years. Dr. Ham-
ilton W. McKay, '06, former president of
the alumni organization and a present
member of the alumni council, obtained a
date from the manager, and plans are be-
ing made at Davidson to give a splendid
half-hour program.

Officials of the station have alloted a
half-hour to Davidson, from 7 to 7:30
p. m., Thursday night, November 14. This
is two days before the Home-Coming Day
celebration, and the events that are to
mark the entertainment of the alumni on
November 16 will be the principal theme
of the program.

Prof. Archibald Currie, member of the
Davidson faculty and familiar to most of
the Davidson alumni, will again speak for
a few minutes, extending a cordial invita-
tion to former students of the college to
pay a visit to their Alma Mater. Prof.
Currie spoke last fall, and his talk was
well received. Some alumni testified that
hearing his voice brought them back to
the campus?

The Davidson Glee Club, and the Sun-
nyland Serenaders, the orchestra of the
club, will make up the remainder of the
broadcast. It is planned to have the Glee
Club open with “College Ties,” and render
two other selections during the half-hour.
The orchestra will be prepared to play
four or five numbers, and both of these
units will be ably trained to give radio
listeners an entertaining thirty minutes.

Class Basketball Lead
Copped By Senior Five

In the second round of the Class Bas-
ketball Tournament last week the Sen-
iors stepped out in front with two vic-
tories and no defeats by downing the
Juniors, 54-12. Calhoun led the Senior
scoring with 18 points, while Smith was
high-scorer for the Juniors, with 8 points.
The Freshmen pulled up into the .500
class by a 15-14 victory over the Sopho-
mores. Honors in the attack were divided
between Rogers of the Fresh and Mar-
tin of the Sophs, each getting nine tallies.
Lineups and scores were as follows:

Seniors (54) Juniors (12)

Moore: (14) seusccsiocecccs Shepherd (4)
F,

McGavock (16) ----------------- Corbett
F,

Galhotiny (18) teeeessessceccu seco Wilson
C.

Hee ther sscccccuscuosecsbeuseleoses Hoge
G

Millét2(6); vascsenececesecccuecs Smith (8)
G

Marks: Caldwell, Armfield.
Freshmen (15) Sophomore (14)

ROpErS (9) sococcuscasus Montgomery (1)
F.
Hartsellvee-secacccvesssccues Martin (9)
F.

Bettise(2) eescsscccescostuc. McGehee (4)
Cc
BOUGNKCh asoscdesecccesecencosouse Curdts
CODE a eS Seb ara ks Gilbert
G
Batighan’ (4) ----.<.2-.-..-2.22-- Patrick

Potts

a

>

os sn

vain a kick its DISTANCE /-

%

a cigarette it’s TA STE /

‘Do onk THING, and do it well.” In making
cigarettes, choose the one thing that counts—
good taste—and give full measure!

From start to finish, that’s the Chesterfield
story. Good tobaccos, skilfully blended and
cross-blended, the standard Chesterfield method
appetizing flavor, rich fragrance, wholesome

satisfying character— |

“TASTE above everything ”

C

© 1929, Liccerr & Myzns Tosacco Co,

MILD... and yet
THEY SATISFY

hestertield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

