In answer to our request Prof. E. J. Cullum, of the Music Department,
has generously consented to occupy this week’s column with a criticism of
the Kreisler Recital. Those who heard Mr. Kreisler play will be especially
interested, while any who desired to attend but were unable to do so will be

informed of the program.

The Davidson turn-out was indeed gratifying, and it is not improbable
that an even greater number will make arrangements to hear Paderewski,

when he comes to Charlotte in January.

H. W. E.

THE KREISLER RECITAL

At the Kreisler concert -in Charlotte a
large audience for Charlotte and vicinity,
for there were over a hundred people from
Davidson alone, sat with open ears and minds
to a nearly perfect performance by the great-
est violin virtuoso of all times. The Davidson
delegation for the most part were seated,
until after the first selection, in a block of
dollar seats reserved for them, but there
were sO many empty two and three dollar
seats in front that common sense demanded
that they be filled by the poorer devotees.
From then on, Kreisler’s own performance
improved 100 per cent, for even great men
dislike to be alone with the dead.

Through beauty of tone, subtlety of
rhythm, and delicate, dynamic shading,
Kreisler not only created for his audience a
perfectly intelligible language, but captivated
those who could appreciate the tonal and
rhythmic structure also, by his treatment of
these qualities, just as one might be cap-
tivated as well as charmed by an oration
cloaked in beautiful diction and inflection.

Kreisler is deservedly called a master vir-
tuoso, the Liszt of the violin, in that he can
Create great music as well as perform it.
Out of simple folk tunes, he creates a “Gypsy
Caprice” or a “Shepherd's Madrigal,” and
then playing it ina masterly manner, stirs in
us emotions identical with the carefree spirit
of the shepherd or gypsy. He sems fond of
the caprice, for his “Caprice Viennois” was
exquisitely played as an encore, as a matter
of fact, better than I have ever heard it
played by him, not excluding his recording
of it. He seemed to be particularly anxious
to imbue Charlotte withthe spirit of Vien-
nese music. :

But I’ve jumped ahead of my review of
the program, of which there were three
parts; two consisted of complete concertos
for the violin, one by Bach and the other by
Tschaikowski, each containing three move-
ments, two fast and one slow.

The first allegro movement of the Bach
concerto in D Minor gave immediate oppor-
tunity for the artist to display his excellent
technique in the fast imitative passages, and
especially was this so in the customary
cadenza, .where opportunity is given the per-
former to improvise on the themes and to dis-
play technical skill. The Second movement
—“Adagio”—contains one of the most beau-
tiful and typical of Bach’s melodies, which
always seem to me to refute the idea that all
Bach’s music is dry and intellectual; in fact,
this movement is intensely emotional, even
impassioned in spirit, as are a great many
of his beautiful melodies. Here was a chance
for Kreisler’s admirers to enjoy his great
legato technique, one tone seeming to melt
into another. The third movement—“‘Allegro”

musical inventions of Bach, in which violin-
ist ‘and pianist play themes that seem to
chase, after each other, in a delightfully intri-
cate manner. No one could have mistaken the
playful and sprightly spirit of this move-
ment as being Bach in his humorous mood,
and played with great skill by Kreisler and
his artist accompanist, Carl Lamson. They
both skillfully maintain a beautiful crescendo
until the end with magnificent effect.

The “D Major Comcerto” of Tschaikow-
ski was to me the high spot of the evening.
The allegro movement came with beautiful
full-chordal passages and varied rhythms,
and then changed to brilliant arpeggios with
beautiful chromatic changes suggesting the
variegated coloring of a prairie sunrise; and
then a lovely cadenza of decidedly Viennese
flavour revealing the consummate skill of the
artist-composer, not forgetting the beautiful
quality of tone emanating from the precious
instrument in his hands. The second move-
ment — “Andante” — contained characteris-
tic minor melodies of Slav flavour, giving a
touch of oriental mystery to the movement,
and also preparing the way for the third
movement — “Allegro vivacissimo” — which
was replete with typical Russian dance
rhythms.

At this point the first encore was requested
in no uncertain terms by the thoroughly
awakened audience. It was the lovely “Chan-
son sans Paroles’ by Tschaikowski. Here
Kreisler played double-stopped harmonics
with perfect results.

The third section of the program was a
group of five pieces, three of them in Span-
ish rhythms, and the other two mentioned
previously, “Shepherd’s Madrigal” and the
“Gypsy Caprice.” When in one of the Span-
ish pieces, “Jota,” and the easiest of the
group, Kreisler skillfully imitated the Span-
ish guitar, the audience perhaps thinking
they were sitting in the Carolina Theatre at
last hearing something on the R. K. O. cir-
cuit, applauded violently, and thus received a
very graciously repetition of the same by
the great artist.

One piece, in fact, called “Piece en forme
de Habanera,” by the modernist Ravel, was
a beautiful example of the colorful, tonal,
and harmonic possibilities of the whole tone
scale, with which the master showed perfect
acquaintance. The “Gypsy Caprice” by Kreis-
ler had too much of the whole tone elements
in it to remind you of gypsies outside of

whole the third section gave fine variety and
balance to the program.

I believe that should Kreisler return to
Charlotte for a performance next week, the
same people, from Davidson, at least, would
not hesitate long before deciding to hear him
again, and at a higher price of admission.
If that is so, then Davidson has a good per-

—was decidely fugal in character, one of the| centage of music-lovers. E. J. G.
BOOKS WE HAVE READ

Ultima Thule: By Henry Handel
Richardson, 314 pp. New York: W. W.
Norton & Co. $2.50.

For twenty years the woman who has
assumed Henry Handel Richardson as her
pseudonym has been working on a trilogy.
This fall the last volume in the story of
Richard Mahony’s career was published. The
two preceeding volumes while presenting his
life up to the beginning of its decline are not
necessary to the completeness of the present
one, and so far as we have been able to
ascertain they have not previously been is-
sued but are to appear at three month inter-
vals, at the end of the year and in the early
spring. ; :

The Victorian style is well suited to the
setting. Conditions of the Australian bush and
seacoast country are most skillfully depicted.
An occasional verbosity of Madame Richard-
son is excusable because so minute a picture

cannot be drawn without giving many de-

tails, Even when the reader feels as if he
were plowing laboriously through ‘words,
the story impels one to labor on past inevita-
ble tragedies. The hand of a master artist
is evidenced by the way one loses conscious-
ness of the mere words while reading
thoughts and deeds; while feeling simultan-
eously the emotion of the character and one’s
own interest as an observer.

The story reveals the power of unreason-

ing pride to destroy a human spirit, mind
and life. In the first part of the book Richard
Mahoney gets himself into trouble by allow-
ing his pride to lead him to attempt a show
of wealth beyond his means. Then came the
step that sealed his doom. His pride kept
him from confiding to his wife their true
straits. Each action necessitated by the dic-
tates of his inner tyrant, Pride, but plunged
him deeper into tragedy. A man, dreamy by
nature and without an inborn love for his
profession of medicine, Mahoney shrunk

4

those that now travel in Cadillacs. As a,

“T went to the saddest show in the world
last night.”

“No, that couldn’t be true.”

“Yes, it was.too, even the seats were in
tiers.”

“Why are you putting pepper and salt and
vinegar on your food that way?”
“Oh, it’s just an old spinach custom.”

The naked hills lie wantom in the breeze,

The fields are bare, the groves unfrocked,

Nude are quivering the limbs of shameless
trees,

What wonder that the corn is shocked.

Freshman: “I went out with a nurse last
night.”

Sophomore: “Cheer up. Maybe when you
grow up your mother will let you go out
without one.”

“T’ve got you in my grip!” hissed the vil-
lain as he placed his toothbrush in his suit
case.

“Sweet Meats”
I never SAUSAGE eyes as thine,
And if you'll BUTCHER hand in mine,
And LIVER round me every day,
We'll MEAT life's frown with life’s
caress,
And CLEAVER road to happines..

The force was out to lunch, leaving the
bookkeeper alone in the store. A handsome
chap strode in. “Do they keep automobile
accessories here?” he’ asked.

The little bookkeeper smiled her sweetest.
“Only me,” she replied.

Joe: “You know I played an organ for
years,”

Moe: “How coime you to give it up?”

Joe: “The monkey died on me.”

When a gold digger starts chasing after a
Scotchman, she gets a good run for her
money.

“Just one more glass, boys, and we'll all
go home,” said the dishwasher as he laid
down the soap.

How to Make a Freshman Understand
Something

1. Tell him you're going to tell him some-
thing.

2. Tell him.

3. Tell him you've told him.

4. Summarize what you've said.

5. Repeat you are going to tell him some-
thing.

6. Repeat what you have told him.

7. Call a consultation.

8. Cross-examine him.

9. Tell him again.

10. Give him a blueprint.

11. Wire him.

12. Telephone him.

13. Pantomine it.

14. Let him go ignorant.

more and more within the supposed pro-
tection of fanciful mental creations which in
turn strengthened his antagonism toward the
world. Once having chosen to face his diffi-
culties unaided he remained cut off from any
alleviation of his burdens.

As Richard gradually lost strength both

physically and morally; Mary, the chief
victim (along with the children, developed
as necessity, ever forced harder situations
upon her. Arid it is Mary’s growth that forms
the focus of the book. The first two volumes
may concern themselves with Richard, but
this one is Mary’s. It is true the writer ends
her narrative with the cessation of his so-
journ on earth, but that is likewise the point
where her character has reached full vigor.
For Mary the book is a triumph in a trag-
edy; a great tragedy composed of lesser
ones; and a chain of discouragements and
sorrows integrated into strength by her in-
domitable will. For Richard it is his Ultima
Thule, but not in the sense he had thought
it would be.
In this account of a once sucessful man’s
decadence the world has acquired a worthy
piece of character portrayal. Such vivid in-
(Continued on Page 6)

What is life? What are its many attri-
butes? One thing alone is certain: that this
mysterious manifestation of biological prin-
ciples has curious yet definite clauses which
compose its sacred parts. One of these is
honor : without it there would be no responsi-
bility; no love, and no trust. Honor has been
the chief cause of man’s constant perusal of
Nature’s divine laws. For unnumbered cen-
turies there has been placed in the codes of
humanity a hope that each man will do to
the other as he would be done unto. Thus,
the generals have faith in their captains;
a false and misplaced trust would have
ruined thousands of lives and brought king-
doms to ruin long before the appointed day ;
business men have an essence of belief in
their confederates; a betrayal of that faith
would condemn many to the rancid existence
of poverty.
Such introspection brings one often to the
desire for a single vast reconnoiter into the
pages of history. What such a search would
bring to light it is impossible to say; how
many kingdoms were lost through a small
betrayal, hardly noticeable; how many lives
have been lost in the falsity of some infin-
itely small endeavor by man to recreate the
world after his own pattern; what terrible
poverty has eaten its. way into the world
through one false word? Trust, faith, belief,
all come under the great category of honor.
And who is able to explain the elements that
compose life? Omar Llayyam attempts rather
successfully the task:
“Myself when young did eagerly fre-
quent

Doctor and saint, and heard great
argument

About it and jabout: But evermore

Came out by the same door as in I
went.”

From this questing after honor and _ its
ability to build man’s responsibility to a
higher standard came the Honor System
which is practised in our various schools
and colleges today. The first Honor System
was established at the University of Vir-
ginia by Thomas Jefferson. The only enact-
ment in that early constitution which resem-
bles ours was: That the testimony from the

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1929 5.
Collegiate ; F E A fi [ ] R | | ) S ;: On This
Comment ° e and That
: KRISP KRACKS
Music Nouvelle Evant-hier sy
Y By Y Then there was the Scotchman who kissed NB Know Davidson SE
Horace W. Ervin Fee a a Ud time it finished R.E.W.

students shall be voluntary. It was received
favorably by faculty and students in a very
few years; the student was more relied on;
felt that he was having a share in the devel-
opment of his life; and was generally well
pleased that he was so well thought of as
to be allowed some voice in government; it
was the beginning of training for a more
democratic group of citizens.

Soon after Davidson College was founded
the Honor System was installed here and
has since persisted with varied success down
to the present moment. The constitution has
been enlarged from time to time until the
Student Body has now an almost unlimited
power. Yet there remains still one weakness
in the system: that is in section five, article
four concerning the students’ act of reporting
all violations. The real and ironclad Honor
System will be one in which each student,
should he commit an offense against the col-
lege, will at once rpeort such a violation to
the Council. This move is drastic at the pres-
ent time, but some day, some how, it will
come to pass and in that moment the world
have taken a step to a most accurate and in-
tensive mode of living. When?

There is beauty in the whole universe;
beauty of the heavens; characterization in
statuary; greatness in architecture; loveli-
ness of woman; and the inevitable yet hidden
beauty of an ethical code. There is Man and
there is Man’s Brother. Man himself. sifts
the clouds of sand seeking a scintillating and
false beauty; -he peeps among the skies in a
hope of seeing the flowers that Man’s Broth-
er has pointed out long ago; and all in vain,
for there is excellence only where there is
openness. Man's Brother casts down his eyes
to the slime and mud of a thousand years
and brings forth beauty; eyes a bit of steel
with wonder and watches the endless pro-
cession of labor which went into the making
of that bit of steel; passes before long cara-
vans of filth and fog, watching the light that
strikes golden drops of dew. Beauty is a
god-and-Man’s Brother is the lover. He will
not tear at the heart of beauty; for he has
openness and is honorable.

And the gods desired faithful honesty so

(Continued on page 6)

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ry

BAFALAFAFALAFAFALALALALAFALALAFALALAFALALALALALALALAFAD

ELGIN WRIST WATCHES

Latest Models, both for Men and Women now in Stock.
Ladies’ $27.50 to $35; Men’s $19 to $25.

W. S. HENDERSON

JEWELER

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

