THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

a

wae
aR ilepard.

’Cats Hold Strong Army Eleven to 16-

>

Side Line Shots

At Davidson’s Great Fight Against
Army

By P. R. Alderman

Each week sees another Wildcat battle
go down as. 1929 Davidson ‘football his-
tory and so the Davidson-Army clash of
last Saturday must inevitably be classi-
fied as such. Some games are forgotten
almost immediately, some linger in the
minds of Davidsonians for a long or short
period of time as the case may be and a
select few are never forgotten. Needless
to say, last week's battle-royal is one of
the latter and this game will always be
an inspiring memory to past, present and
future Wildcats. No uphill fight carried
on with such undying spirit and. deter-
mination as that against the Cadets was
could fail to demand such a place in the
hearts of true sportsmen,

Captain Thad’ Brock, typifying the
Davidson eleven with his superb play
ing and unstinted fight, led his fellow
Wildcats through a battle with the
biggest foe to be met this season in
such a manner as to invoke the praise
and admiration of football followers
throughout the country. This was
evidenced by the fact that the group
of spectators, numbering 16,000, were
wildly cheering the Wildcats when at
the end of the first half the score
was Davidson 7, Army 3. This was
more than the most optimistic 'Cat
supporter had dared hope for and
something that the Cadets would
hardly have accepted as true had it
been prophesied ahead of time.

\-

As has been truly said, to name a Dav-
idson star for the day would be to name
every man who saw action. But Captain
Brock and Don King, if any, deserve spe-
cial mention for the execution of a beau-
tiful 30-yard pass, the former to the latter,
that gave Davidson a lead of four points
over the Army and her lone tally of the
day. The plucky Cat leader again showed

that he still knew how to account for
extra’ points when they are due and
boosted the score up a point with his

educated toe. The game was not featured
by the presence of Dame Luck in favor
of either team to any extent. The Wild-
cats undoubtedly outplayed her stronger
opponent in the first half and, in Cagle
and Murrel, the Cadets put up two of the
best backs in America to overcome this
lead.

Lest we forget, however, there are
six more tough scraps left on the
Wildcat program for 1929, among
them the Citadel Bulldogs, scheduled
to meet the Red and Black machine
on Richardson field day after tomor-
row. Each eleven showed just how
they felt about things Jast week
against the Army and V. M. I. They
both have fight, and how! In other
words, When Cat and Dog meet Sat-
urday to settle old scores there’s go-
oing to be action and plenty of it. To
verify this consider that each does
have old scores to settle, that each
lost the last game played after a hard
fight and that each is characterized
by an unlimited supply of courage
and grit—all of which means a good
football game in every sense of the
word!

Due to a change in the Wildkitten’s
schedule the game with the Wofford
Fresh will not be played tomorrow as
previously announced, but will be staged
about the middle of November. This will
prohibit the student body from giving this

Davidson Takes 7-3 Lead at End of Half
But Gadets Launch Strong Attack to Win

Army Makes 14 First Downs
' Against 9 for ’Cats

KING SCORES ON PASS

Crowd of 16,000 Watches Wildcats
Check Efforts of Cagle and
Murrell

The Davidson Wildcats, playing an—in-
spired game of football, held the Army to a
23 to 7 score last Saturday at West Point.
Early in the second period the ’Cats pushed
a touchdown across on the Cadets, and took
the ball inside their opponent's fifteen yard
line on two other occasions, only to lose it
by intercepted passes or because of penalties.

The Wildcats played an offensive game
that has not been equaled by a Davidson team
for quite a while. Eighteen passes were ‘at-
tempted, five of which were completed for a
gain of 100 yards. Three of them were for
more than twenty-five yéards each. The run-
ning attack of the ‘Cats: was good for 115
yards more, bringing the total gain to 215
yards.

Nor was the defensive play of the David-
son team far behind their offense. The small
score which the West Pointers-were able to
roll up proves that beyond a doubt. But that
does not tell the whole story. Late in the
first quarter after a long run by Cagle had
placed the ball on the visitors 18 yard line,
the Wildcats braced and held Cagle, Mur-
rell, et al, for downs, making them try a
field goal on the fourth down,° which Was
successful. The Army was able to gain only
six yards in three plays with the goal only a
few yards away, and a touchdown not yet
scored, Again in the fourth quarter, when
the Cadet ranks were full of substitutes the
ball was carried to the Cat twenty yard line,
only to have Davidson hold for downs and
get the ball.

Brock of the
games of his career. He played the entire

Captain played one best
time and featured in nearly every play. He
was a tower of strength on the defensive, but
where he shone was on the offense. Besides
playing his end in his usual brilliant style,
he did most of the punting ‘for the ‘Cats, and
was on the firing end of most of Davidson's
heaves, passing in a manner that was all that
could be asked. His passing accounted for
the only touchdown of the Wildcats, and his
heaves were repeatedly placing his team in a
threatening position.

But close behind him dashed a Sophomore
back by the name of Don King. His power-
ful off-tackle thrusts and line smashes ac-
counted for a good part of the yardage gained
by the ‘Cats on their running attack. He re-
ceived Brock’s long pass and carried the
ball over the line for Davidson's touchdown.
His defensive work was as brilliant as was
his offensive play and he did much to break
up the heaves of Cagle and other Cadets.
His tackling was sure and hard all the time.
Joe McCall played the safety position for
the Wildcats in a consistent thanner. He hit
the line hard on smashes and ripped off
several nice gains, Fraley played a jam-up
defensive game all the time, stonping many
Army thrusts for little or no gain. The
Bradshaw Brothers, Red Parrish and Fraley
all turned in sparkling games. The entire

year’s fresh the once over before Novem-
ber 8 when they meet the State first year
men here. Coach Laird’s men undoubted-
ly have a better than javerage team at
least as was evidenced by a tie with the
strong Oak Ridge Cadets and it, is a
pretty unanimous opinion that there is
some real material out for the Kitten
squad this year.

Summary
Army Pos. Davidson
Hilibere cacooue 1G) Deapareagreya. Brock
letsbl tne Istessce Covington
Mhibabyye 2 IC) DeCamp
Millér .....-. Center -.-...- Mason
lbp bye RG..--.-... Mathis
Retryscceeesoto8 Rupee ewue tes Raker
Malloy ~...---- Ribeec cco. Brown
Bowman --..... Qib esses use McCall
O’Keefe  -.----- |) Paeaa Rue gee King
Gasletesse ries Rabteeeccse Parrish
Murrell ....--_- MB Sees sees Fraley

Period Scores:
ATINVieotaceses ce 2296.00 1057-203
IDAVICSO! eee meee (Y(t) (WS Y/

Army — scoring: = Touchdowns:
Cagle, Stuart.

Army: Touchdowns: Cagle, Mur-
rell, Stuart, (placement.) Field goal:
O'Keefe. Davidson scoring touch-
down: King. Point after touch-
down: Brock, (placement.)

line from tip to tip charged’ as one man, and
fought in their usual Wildcat style.

For the West Pointers, Chris Cagle and
Murrell were outstanding in their plays Cagle,
All-American back, got off on several of his
famous broken field runs for long gains. His
passing was accurate and accounted for a
good many yards. Murrell ran Cagle a close
race for yards gained, besides, doing much of
the punting for the Army. O'Keefe stood out
on the defensive as well as on the offensive.
Stuart and Hutchinson, substitutes, were con-
tinual thorns in the sides of the 'Cats while
they were in the game.

The game opened by Brock kicking off
over the goal line. Murrell got off a poor
kick to the Army thirty-two yard line. Dur
ing most of the first quarter the ball was in
Davidson's possession in. the Army’s  terri-
tory, due to the poor kicking of Murrell,
Near the end of the period, however, King
fumbled when tackled hard, and Murrell re-
covered for the Army on its own 40 yard
lint.. Murrell made it first down in midfield,
then Cagle to the 20
yard line. The ‘Cats braced here and, when
on the fourth down, there was. still three
yards to go, O'Keefe dropped back and put
the ball through the cross bars for a. field
goal, giving the Army three points. A few
plays later the quarter ended with the ball!
in the Cadets’ possession on their 20 yard
line.

The second quarter was all Davidson. They

rot loose Davidson

gained ever seven times as much ground as
did the Pointers, the ball being in their pos-
session most of the time. Murrell kicked to
McCall, who was downed on his own 40
yard line. A fifteen yard penalty placed the
ball on Army’s 45 yard stripe. King and
McCall made it first down. Fraley and Mc-
Call accounted for four’ yards, then a pass
by Fraley failed. On the fourth down, Brock
dropped back and shot a perféct pass for 40
yards to King, who stepped across the goal
for the first touchdown of the game. Brock
also converted extra point. The Army was
forced to punt after the kickoff, and McCall
was downed in his tracks on his 30 yard line.
He picked up seven yards on a fake, then
King got a yard. Fraley stepped back and
hurled a pass to. Joe McCall which netted
27 yards and placed the ball on the Army's
35 yard line. Brohard made it first on the
Cadet’s 19 yard line in three plays.’ McCall
was stopped and a pass was knocked down,
then another Davidson pass was intercepted
to break up the threat. The two teams ex-
changed punts until the half ended, with the
score Davidson 7, Army 3.

The Soldiers came back mad in the secon’
half to score three touchdowns. But they had

Point Win

Sophomore End

Steve Brown, another Wildcat who has

played a hard consistent game this sea-

son, and who gave a good account of him-
self against Army’s All-Americans

to break up another Davidson rally early in
the third period. A bad punt by Murrell gave
Davidson the ball on the Army 40 yard line.
King broke loose to’ the Army 25, then Brock
passed to McCall for a first down onthe
fifteen yard line. A yard penalty
broke up Davidson's and Brock
missed his try for field goal. Then the Army
ypened up. Murrell and Cagle made two quick
first downs, then Cagle passed to O'Keefe
for 30 yards, placing the ball on the ‘Cats
10 yard line. Murrell and Cagle then carried
it over and O'Keefe made the point. Murrell
actually took the, ball over the last line. The
Cadets made the march of eighty yards in

fifteen

chances

eight plays. The second score came as quickly
as the first. The Army got the ball on their
own 40 yard line after a poor kickoff by
Davidson, The Cagle to Murrell combination
placed the ball on the Wildeats 27 yard line.
Fletcher gained nine, and Murrell nine more,
then Cagle carried it over. Point was missed.

The last Army touchdown came early in
the last period. Murrell broke through the
center of the line for 25 yards, after Cagle
had intercepted a pass on his own 40 yard
line. Then two plays later Stuart, who came
in for Cagle, broke loose for 27 yards and
a touchdown, O'Keefe got the extra point.
A few plays later, the Cadets carried the
ball to the Davidson 15 yard line by virtue
of a long run by Green, and several short
thrusts, but the ‘Cats held and the ball went
over,

Davidson threatened two other times be-
fore the game was over. They got the ball
on the Army's 30 yard line after penalties
had placed 4t there, but several passes were
grounded, and the Army reserves held the
tired ‘Cats on their running plays. But the
‘Cats, still fighting, goth the ball in mid-
field, and a long pass placed the ball again
within the Cadets’ 30 yard zone. But Carver
intercepted a pass and the game was over.

More Truth Than Poetry

A college paper is a grand invention |
For the school gets all the fame:
The printer gets all the money,
And the staff gets ail the blame.

Golfers Win Match
With Gastonia Team

Gastonia’s golf team fell before the rep-
resentation from Davidson by a score of
10-8 on Friday, October 4th. This is the
first win that Davidson has ever been able
to account for against Gastonia. Capt. A.
L. Mills, of Davidson, and C. D. Gray, of
Gastonia, tied for the low score of 7-7.
Among the new men on Davidson's team
were John Thompson and Tom Bowles
who showed up well. The only matches
lost in this meet lost
by a very close score.

by. Davidson were

After the meet the Gastonia team gave
a delightful entertainment to the David-
son boys in the form of a luncheon at
the Gastonia Country Club. It was on the
course of this club that the matches were
held.

Davidson held a match with the Salis-
bury team yesterday, and a match with
Concord will be played in the near future.
Due to addition of stronger men to Dav
idson’s team, it is expected to make a
much better showing this year than here-
tofore and some very interesting matches
are expected,

Scoring :
Mills

Pepper

Sieneceasaee 3 points

Bure rere ees eels 1 point

BOWIGSievoccacccusvassceccc elles 1 point
ANON DSUllen ceeeecacoeenee noo 1 1-2 points
Mills and Bowles ---------------2 points

Pepper and Thompson —------ 1 1-2 points

DANIUSON sence oe ctae

Geo. Gray 0 points

Gre Gitday. se eee ese oe a Sez points
MOnrence: ast ceac sone oe ose postits
Durham 1 1-2 points
Torrence and George Gray------ 1 point

Durham and Gray 11-2 points

Gastoniae ee =- 8 points

Wildcat Fullback

Walter Fraley, whose defensive work be-
hind line has featured throughout the
season, and who played a prominent part
in the spiking of Army guns Saturday.

,

STATIONERY
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUNDRIES

Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records

every week

W. S. HENDERSON

CANDIES
SMOKES
SODA

\
