Page. Sis

And What Wouldn’t We
Do If We Were Girls

College Humor Writer Gives the
Skirts Some Hints

“T’d treat men, if I liked them, as
men and not little boys.who I thought
might ask me to go to the movies if
I let them kiss me,” says Eric Hatch
in.the February issue of College Hu-
mor. “I’d be pretty careful whom I
kissed, but I’d let every man I liked
get an idea he could kiss me if he was
clever. I’d let him keep the idea till
he tried and then if he tried hard
enough in a nice way I'd probably let
him—in a nice way. I think I'd be
just low énough to try and make them
think there wouldn’t be anything on
earth quite as snappy as having me
around the house when they came in
tired. I’d make them comfortable,
act glad to see them and feed them
and give them cocktails and things.

“T think I’d read a lot, if I were a
girl, I wouldn’t go out every time
somebody asked me to; my complex-
ion couldn’t stand it. I’d never make
the mistake of staying at three parties
in a row so late that I came out on the
fourth day looking like a paste flower
with black-rimmed eyes. Not on your
life I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t come out
on the fourth day.

“I'd wear ctothes that came from
smart shop§ and if they didn’t and
looked as if they might have, I’d hook
some labels and sew them in. In sum-
mer I’d wear frocks that men would
call lovely and women would call cat’-
enish, They would be polka dot and
starchy about the neck and quite,
quite low. I would try to avoid the
fetish of thinking I couldn’t wear cer-
tain colors, particularly if some man
said he liked me in them.

“If I were a girl, I suppose, being a
sentimentalist at heart, I'd fall in love
some time and when I did I’d fall so
hard you could hear me bounce, I
wouldn’t let The Man know it, though.
I’d make him suffer and go through
agony and treat him like dirt and then,
when I finally let him suspect that
there was something about him that
appealed to something in me he'd feel
so surprisedly grateful that I could
soak him on the spot for practically
anything I wanted.

“I wouldn't always tell the trith, if
’T were a girl, because that would be
disloyal to my sex, and after ‘all, a
girl’s got to be able to be polite, but
I would not lie either. I’d make up
fairy stories an maybe fibsa little
when it was necessary. Then when I
got to be somebody's sweetheart I
wouldn’t tell a lie for anything, because
men don’t like girls to lie to them un-
less if they tell the truth it will hurt.
‘T’'d be pretty nice to the man I
loved: I'd kiss him good night always
and remember to squeeze his arm aft-
er he’d squeezed mine for the last time,
unless I was araid this would end up
in a sort of retaliation thing that

would keep me up all night.”

Nancv Hoyt Attacks
“Boredom of Youth”

“It is invariably the tendency of
twenty-five to view with alarm the an-
tics of twenty,” says Nancy Hoyt,
prominent in Washington diplomatic
and social circles, “And it is as in-
variable with twenty to snicker at the
sour words and sour grapes of twenty-
five.

“It is not:the antics that I lament
but their lack; above all you have a
right to gusto, a gusto which is utter-
ly yours and belongs to no other age.
A gusto which is not necessarily only
present when a pair of silver spike
heels chatter along the pavement next
lazy patent leather dance Oxfords, or
champagne cocktails twinkle in crystal
goblets, but is as much peculiarly yours
when three or four of you sink into de-
licious melancholy and deplore the
dullness of professors, the brutal
stinginess of parents and the lousiness
of life in general. Vitality glazes a
film of gold varnish over the world
for you. Why pour boiling water on
it? I reproach you all, the new young-
er generation, with delibertely trying
to destroy your necessary and delight-
ful wildness by a sheath of awful bore-
dom, a pall of gloom which is only
lifted when contemporaries and friends
of exactly the same age are the only
persons present. In America the col-
leges are packed with crowd sof cheer-
ful and vivid men and girls, but let
them separate for a week and fly to
foreign parts and the great heebie-jee-

_ bie appears to set in. The girls, pre-
posterously pretty and well_ dressed,
with slim American legs which should
provide a harmless delight to eyes sur-
feited with the heavy European pro-
duct, fluttering in prfnted chiffons,
look out from under their floppy straw
hats with coanténances as grim as a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Work on Chambers
Progressing Rapidly

It is fully expected by authorities of the
college that the new part of Chambers
Building will be ready for ‘use by the
time of commencement in the spring.
Work is going along satisfactorily, al-
though not as rapidly as it did at first.
This is due to the fact that it has been
impossible to get some of the materials
necessary for the finishing of the build-
ing, and difficulty has been experienced
in securing help because of the cold weath-
er.

The outside of the building is complete
in every respect except for the dome, the
finishing of which is delayed by the lack
of materials. The unfinished dome also
hinders work on the interior immediate-
ly beneath it because this part is exposed
to the weather.

The inside of the structure is for the
most part complete. The walls have been
plastered, and only the finishing layers
remain to be added to the floors. The
scientific fixtures and furniture have
been ordered.

These will be installed by commence-
ment. Chairs for the auditorium will be
secured through a Charlotte company,
and most of the other furniture has been
ordered.

Part of the interior equipment will be
a system of electric clocks and buzzers.
There will be a central clock and other
clocks in each hall with buzzers connected
with these to designate the beginning and
ending of periods.

Plans, although indefinite, are being
made for the installation of a pipe or-
gan in the auditorium; authorites hope
that this may be brought about.

The work of building at present is be-
ing concentrated mainly upon theaudi-
torium, so that it may be ready for the
graduation exercises in the spring.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

Scorn Million

Denisonian: That Cornell Univer-
sity values its fraternity system above
a million dollars is evidenced by their
refusal of this sum from an alumnus
of one of their oldest and most respect-
ed fraternities. This supposedly phil-
anthropie gentleman offered the mil-
lion on condition that all fraternities
and similar organizations be abolished
at Cornell,

So popular and so essential has fra-
ternity life become to college under-
graduates that few college authorities
dare combat it for fear of their school's
reputation, and others are enthusias-
tic in their praise of its value in de-
veloping the character of a boy. Out-
siders hear only of the glamorous
and popular side of fraternity life and
little do they realize. the value of its
intimate personal contact in develop-

much youth and beauty is almost
knocked backward by the chilling
glare and pulled down mouth,

“The contigued practice of appearing
bored leads to real boredom finally.
If the boredom is put on to snub Eu-
rope, it is unfair. Paris loves a gay
face. Why not indulge her to the
extent of allowing a little life to enter
into your eyes?

“At twenty the cup runneth over,
Let it spill. Splash it around. Share
your gusto a little bit. Yell “bonjour”
to the workman who passes you leav-
ing Montmartre at six a. m., kid the
taxi driver along, enjoy the street
dancing on the fourteenth of July and
don't get too dignified if a waiter on
holiday winks at you. You won’t be
any poorer for it. Europe will adore
you instead of being bewildered and
puzzled, and as for us poor souls of
twenty-five, we'll be a bright poison
green with jealousy. What wouldn't
I give to do those things and see those
things with the gusto of twenty! Ah!
the grapes are sweet, so very sweet.
And don’t let anyone tell you they are
sour either!” f

ing the character of a college mam:

What Women Want

Butler Collegian: Since the feminine
declaration of equality, men have
taken wome nat their word. A mis-
taken attitude of men toward women
has resulted. A woman still expects
every courtesy from a gentleman that
her grandmother demanded from her
“beau.” How great is the disappoint-
ment of the modern girl when she
must stand and converse with her male
acquaintances while their hats remain
glued to their respective crowns.

Joe College comes on the scene and
slaps his girl friend on the back hard
enough to jolt her ancestor's false
teeth and thinks he’s made a hit. He
has—and how! Lucky is he, if he
does not get a swift left hook to the
jaw. Girls are strong and healthy to-
day, but they still desire respect and
courtesy from those of the opposite
sex,

College Map and Politics

Linfield Review: “Politics never
used to be considered a gentleman’s
game,” says Leo A. Borah, in the De-
cember issue of College Humor. ‘“Col-
lege folk looked down on the whole
business with disdain. They wouldn’t
give it a minute’s consideration, But
the attitude of the college student is
changing today; he recognizes poli-
tics as a real force in the country. If
the students who really feel an active
interest in government will consider
politics as a career and enroll in the
courses intended to prepare them for
it, the United States will be able to
mix in world politics without fear. It
will no longer be the tenderfoot sitting
in the other fellow’s game.

You say—he made a complete confes-
sion? What did he get—five years?

No, fifty dollars. He confesses
magazines.—Bradley Campus Cat.

Great aches’ from little toe-corns grow.
—Selected.

to

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS

“What kind of football team is Da-
vidson going to have next season?”
was a frequent query. One or two
asked this in open meeting; others in
conversations following adjournment.

a ag u

When Davidson had a winning fbot-
ball team several years ago, a number
of alumni from the “Sunshine” state
drove hundreds of miles to be here
Home-Coming Day. On November
17th of this year, one alumnus came
back to Davidson. A Davidson foot-
ball team that has scores chalked up
on the positive side of the ledger is a
tremendous drawing card for alumni
visits to the campus.

One Davidson minister said he was
saving the last Davidson College Bul-
letin, containing the letter lauding the
fighting spirit of the Wildcats, and
added that he intended to preach a
sermon on it some day.

The St. Petersburg alumni suggested
an alumni meeting for the entire state
of Florida, mentioning Orlando as the
logical and central point. The alumni
secretary was asked to convey these
feelings to other officers and find out
the possibilities of such a gathering.

STOP!

From the Show at

WILDCAT CAFE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

fr

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday
The Loves of

Cosanova

Wednesday
, |His Captive Woman

Thursday
RICHARD DIX

“Redskin”

Friday
ESTHER RALSTON

“Case of Lina Smith”

SATURDAY
BUZZ BORTON

‘Rough Riding Red”

safe deposit door. The stranger pass-
ing with a softened expression for so

January 10, 1929

Flashes From Everywhere

Ancient Sports

Vienna—(IP)—A_ marble swimming
pool and stadium, built by an Ephesian
citizen, Publius Vedius Antoninus, a cen-
tral heating plant, supposedly built by the
same man, and a basilica constructed by
the Byzantine Emporer Justinian and Em-
press Theodora in honor of John Theo-
logus, have been discovered by excava-
tions in Asia Minor by the Austrian
Archeological Society and Rockefeller
Foundation experts. The relics have
been placed in the museum at Smyrna, in
all cases where they were movable.

Al Novak?

Prague—(IP)—If Al Smith lived in
Czechoslovaka his name would be Al No-
vak. So would it be with several hun-
dred thousand other Smiths, for in this
country the name Novak is as common
if not more so than the name Smith in
America.

It is estimated that there are 80,000
persons by that name in the infant na-
tion, and already 11,630 of them have
joined a recently organized Novak so-
ciety. The president of the new organi-
zation is Professor Carel Novak, of the
Czech Technical University. The present
Czechoslovak Consul General in New
York is Dr. J. Novak, and the Minister-of
Commerce also bears the name. The
famous Prague composer, Novak, is not-
ed in musical circles throughout the
world.

The Novak society is planning to pub-
lish a journal, and also will seek to aid
its members in a social and cultural way.

“I Wish I Was in Peoria”

Peoria, Ill—(IP)—A prize of $25 has
been offered by Bradley college for the
best new field son written for the col-
lege.

Study Engineering

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Graduates of
Engineering colleges generally receive
a higher salary than the profes+\
sors who taught them, President Charles
S. Howe, of Case School of Applied

Science says in an article “College Teach-
ing as a Profession”, which appears in
the December isssue of the Case Alumni.

The median salary of teachers in en-
gineering colleges is $4,200, while the
median salary of engineering graduates
is $7,500, the articles states. Some teach-
ets have an income from extra profession-
al work bringing the median income of
the professors up to $5,700.

“The professor can never expect to be
wealthy, he barely makes enough to live
decently and to educate his children. He
rarely has enough left for his old age
unless he has been so fortunate as to in-
herit some property,” Dr. Howe writes.

Conditions, however, are improving, the
article continues. During the last 20
years salaries for Case faculty members
holding the rank of. professor have in-

creased from a maximum of $2,500 to a
maximum of $6,000.

Football Record

Seattle, Wash.—(IP)—Three hundred
and sixty-six minutes, or exactly six hours
of football in six conference games is the
record this year of Charles Carroll, Uni-
versity of Washington halfback. He did
not miss a minute of play during the
season. This is believed to be a world
record for fotball players, at least in
more modern times.

An emminent scholar complains that
ollege graduates are earning more in their
chosen professions than the professors
who taught them the professions, What
better way for the students to get even
for all the flunks ?—IP.

The Students’ Store

has a supply of Dixie Pads
on hand for exam’s — Buy
them here and patronize a
Student Body Organization.
Also a new line of Sweat
Shirts and Sweat Coats at very
reasonable prices.

AK

IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

WE FAIRLY BLUSH TO ADMIT IT:

“If TWO men submit exactly the same essay,” says Professor Pump-

ernickel, “it’s a coincidence. Three is a miracle. Four or more bears
investigation.” Perhaps we speak in parables . . . but the fact that

Camel leads all other cigarettes by billions is more than coincidence.

More than a miracle. Yea—Camel must have something worth look-
ing into. And forsooth, Camel has!

© 1928

R. J. REYNOLDS TPBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
