6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1929

Oren Moore, Prominent
Physician, Speaks at “Y”

Lives of Cushi and Ahimaaz Chosen
to Illustrate Theme

On Sunday night, November 24th, stu-|

Oa of Davidson were privileged to lis-

n to one of the most interesting and
beneficial talks given this year. Dr. Oren
Moore, a prominent physician, and one
of the most loyal supporters of, Davidson,
made the address.

Dr. Moore chose his text from second
Samuel 18:5. Peculiarly, he did not take
his subject from the main story involving
David and Absolem, but spoke on the
actions and relative merits of two minor
characters, Cushi and Ahimaaz.

“The tragedy of a son against his father,
the tragedy of fallen ambitions and a
father’s broken heart, the story of David's
elevation, of the strategic ability and mil-
itary genius of Joab,” said Dr. Moore, are
all wonderfully interesting and full of
spiritual value, but I want to speak about
two lesser characters, two men who car-
ried messages to the King.”

Dr. Moore then told how Joab chose
Cushi to carry the message of victory and
Absalom’s death to David. “Both Cushi
and Ahimaaz were good runners,” con-
tinued Dr. Moore, “but Ahimaaz had al-
ways carried messages of good tidings,
and this was surely not a mesage of good
tidings.”

Continuing his talk, Dr. Moore told how
Ahimaaz asked Joab to allow him to run
also, although Cushi. had already gone.
Ahimaaz set out across the plains and

oreached David before Cushi. “When Ahi-
maaz reached David,” said Dr. Moore,
“David asked about Absalom, the first
thing. When Ahimaaz told David that’ he
knew nothing about Absalom, David told
him to stand aside. But when Cushi came
and told David that Absalom was dead.
David was prostrated with grief; the big
victory .and its stupendous results were
forgotten because of Absalom’s death.

“Ahimaaz is the man we must draw a
lesson from, What a wonderful reputation
he must have had, a man who was always
a bearer of good tidings. Bad news
reaches through our morbid consciences,”
continued Dr. Moore. “What we need is
a messenger who always brings messages
of good cheer.”

Dr. Moore then explained what good
messages are and what qualities they
must possess. “There are continuous ref-
erences,” he said, “to men of physical and
mental superiority. Clean cut concisive-
ness of youth is always refreshing. The
minister would be a good example of
what a good messenger is, but there are
others. We need to hear from your lips,
you as college men, clear messages of
hope and good cheer, to show that there
are not too many Absaloms and disloyal
people on earth. You have no idea how
much the world needs the messages which
you as college men are able to give. The
man who developed the theory of evolu-
tion said that he had not had a peaceful
spiritual thought since he. had developed
that theory. So the world needs the new
interpretations and messages which you
may bring.”

“A messenger,” he continued, “must
have a stubborn courage, a splendid abil-
ity, and unlimited endurance. He does not
have to know the full interpretation of
the message which he carries. The only
thing which the messenger must know
is that the message must be delivered at
the specific time.

“Therefore,” said Dr. Moore in con-
clusion, “always bear a message of good
tidings. Be not concerned about the con-
tents of the message; see that the mes-
sage is delivered. Do not be influenced by
outside appearances. The person who
gives you the message is able to trans-
late it. And be not concerned about the
reward you are to receive; be like Ahi-
maaz, who said, “Let me also run.”

NOUVELLE EVANT-HIER

, (Continued from Page 5)
they shoulded a dog; and the gods created
Circe, a vibrant instrument of beauty; and
Circe was Truth with power to tear away
the atomic structure of man and build him
anew into a natural likeness; and man be-
came a dog, for in dogs there is faithfulness.
But the gods erred because even atoms carry
the inner workings of a man’s mind, and the
dog became infested with the vileness of man.
And there is falsehood and hypocrisy under
the exterior of the dog which had been man.
But where there is beauty and faithfulness
there is honor. Faithfulness and honor breed
beauty. Faithfulness is like a river which
ténderly nourishes its task and delivers its

|

|

| KIM’S KOLUMN

|

Despite the scarcity of outstanding attrac-
|tions last Saturday, the football conflict
reached spectacular heights in at least three
| widely separated sectors.

| In the East, an underrated Harvard team
|climaxed a mediocre season by outsmarting,
| outplaying and defeating a great Yale eleven
| 10 to 6; in-mid-west, the Oregon State Husk-
|ies staged a surprise victory over a hith-
erto unbeaten band of Detroit University
Titans 14 to 7; while on the Pacific Coast,
Coach Glen Warner’s Stanford Cardinals at
last found themselves to trounce California’s
Golden Bears 21 to 6 in one of the biggest
“upsets” of the year.

Purdue, playing its final game, easily de-
feated Indiana to win her first “Big Ten”
title and retain her unblemished record of
eight straight victories and no defeats.

Notre Dame easily disposed of North-
western to continue her uninterrupted march
toward the National championship.

Texas Christian University remained at
the top of the heap in the Southwest with a
decisive 34 to 7 win over Baylor.

A swift glance at the national football map,
designed on the basis of undefeated and un-
tied records, reveals only seven major teams
in the championship scramble. Pittsburgh
and Notre Dame stand out nationally, Utah
tops the Rocky Mountain Conference; Texas
Christian dominates the Southwest; Purdue
reigns in the Western Conference and Ten-
nessee and Tulane ‘share the leadership in
Dixie.

TURKEY DAY GAMES

And thus, ladies and gentlemen, the°1929
football. season approaches its zenith—
Thanksgiving Day—that point that marks the
end of the trail for many teams. Each of
these Turkey Day engagements is one to
which tradition has given the flavor of a
classic. Everywhere they are massing for
this grand finale, and Old Man Dope must
share precedence with Dame Fortune and
Lady Luck when stern-faced athletes step
out on the gridirons next Thursday after-
noon to shoot the works.

There are such traditional foemen to meet
as Pittsburgh and Penn State, Cornell and
Pennsylvania, Tulane and L, S. U., Tennes-
see and Kentucky, Georgia and Alabama—
games that no one has ever been able to
dope and that are just as likely to alter
sectional standings as not. The underdogs,
with everything to gain and nothing to lose,
sometimes play with an inspiration that is
unbeatable, and quite frequently in this last
game wreck the championship hopes of their
superior adversaries.

Two games that give every indication of
being interesting are on the program for

bring together Pittsburgh and Penn State at
Pittsburgh, and Cornell and Pennsylvania at
Philadelphia.

The Cornell-Penn game ought to be pro-
ductive of the closer score. Although Penn
is considerably weaker than it was a year
ago, it rules a slight favorite. An unbeaten
Pitt eleven is not expected to have much
trouble with Penn State. At the same time
Colgate looks like a sure winner over Brown
at Providence, while West Virginia and
W & J should have a close struggle at
Morganton. Carnegie-N. Y.,U. and Syra-
cuse-Columbia complete the Dicture from an
Eastern standpoint.

In the South, this date marks the last
appearance for 13 Southern Conference
teams. Only one other playing date remains
—the second following Saturday, December
7, on which ten conference teams will end
the season, but which will be largely an anti-

burdens of water intact to the ocean; a river
realizes responsibility ; and man must realize
honor.

Eastern football. followers. These battles will |

climatic occasion, with none of the traditional |
color of these Turkey Day battles.

Football fans in Dixie will watch the Ten- |
nessee-Kentucky and the Tulane-L. S. U.|
scoreboards, for a defeat for either the Vol-'
unteers or the Green Wave would reopen |
the title chances of Vanderbilt, Alabama and |
North Carolina. These three are favorites, |
respectively, over Sewanee, Georgia and Vir- |
ginia.

Both Tennessee and Tulane appear to be
in for their most serious tests of the season. |
Tennessee seems likely to have the harder
time of the two, meeting in Kentucky one
of the strongest and most versatile squads in
the South and one whose only defeat was at
the hands of Alabama with its backfield
flashes out.

L. S. U. doesn’t offer quite so many poten-
tialities of danger for Tulane, but one can
never tell. An improved and fighting L. S. U.
eleven may give the Green Wave plenty of
trouble.

AS I PICK ’EM

Auburn at GEORGIA TECH.
Furman at CLEMSON,
OGLETHORPE at Chattanooga.
TULANE at Louisiana State.
Georgia at ALABAMA.
Washington & Lee at FLORIDA.
Tennessee at KENTUCKY.
OKLAHOMA at Missouri.
Virginia at NORTH CAROLINA.
Sewanee at VANDERBILT.
V. M. I. at Virginia Poly.
COLGATE at Brown.
Dickinson at BUCKNELL.
CARNEGIE at New York U.
Syracuse at COLUMBIA.
Cornell at PENN.
Iowa state at NEBRASKA.
KANSAS STATE at Marquette.
Penn State at PITTSBURGH.
University of Texas at TEXAS A. & M.
WASHINGTON & JEFFERSON at
West Virginia.

SATURDAY GAMES

Ruling a slight favorite to vanquish Army,
Notre Dame moves into the Yankee Stadium
for its great battle with the Cadets Saturday.
The Irish have attracted as much attention
this season as the famous team including the |
“Four Horsemen’ of a few years ago, and
are still undefeated having conquered Navy,
Wisconsin, Carnegie, Georgia Tech, Drake,
Southern California and Northwestern on
sifccessive week-ends. Army, with the bril-
liant Chris Cagle and the versatile Hertz
Murrel, will’ present as much opposition as
the Rocknemen have had to face at anytime
this season.

While thesé-time-honoured rivals are wag-
ing their annual struggle, the Navy has a
real job ahead, when they meet Dartmouth
at Franklin Field, Philadelphia. Although
the Big Green has suffered defeat at the
hands of Yale, they, nevertheless loom as
one of the greatest teams in the East, even
without the great Al’ Marsters. Navy has a
fairly good team, regardless of its failure to
register any notable victories. The Middies
have lost to Notre Dame by a lone touch-
down, were beaten by Penn in a close strug-
gle and played a powerful Georgetown eleven
to a scoreless tie.

Georgetown University entertains high
hopes of defeating the powerful Detroit
University Titans in an intersectional duel
at Detroit. But for two scoreless ties, the
Hilltoppers themselves would be in the midst
of the national title hunt. They know they
can achieve a high rating by beating the
Westerners but it will take superwork to do
it. ;

Texas Christian, another sectional leader,
faces a rugged Southern Methodist team
that is undefeated but tied three times this

season. The Christians are slight favorites

$29.50

Friendly Five Shoes

STETSON “D” STORE

Opposite Campus

Everything
The College Man Should Wear

$34.50

Bostonian Shoes‘.

Six Officers Initiated
By Scabbard and Blade

Gant, Gaffney, Calhoun, Miller,
Ritchie, and White Are Honored

Initiation of six cadet officers of the
R. O. T. C. was held by the local chapter
of the Scabbard and Blade, national hon-
orary military fraternity, last Wednes-
day, November 20. The regular semi-an-
nual initiatory ceremony, as in the past,
consisted of various public informal dem-

onstration in the afternoon_and,the secret:

ceremonies in the evening.

Those who were taken into the fra-
ternity for their ability of leadership are
S. L. Gant, adjutant, Greensboro; Hugh
W. White, captain, Rock Hill, S. C.; C. A.
Ritchie, lieutenant, Statesville; W. F. Gaff-
ney, lieutenant, Davidson; D. K. Miller,
lieutenant, Moresville! and A. M. Calhoun,
lieutenant, Laurinburg.

The informal part of the initiation was
held north of Chambers Building while

to make it ten in a row, but it might take
only a single “break” to upset the dope.

AS I PICK ’EM

BAYLOR at Rice.

HOLY CROSS at Boston College.

DARTMOUTH at Navy.

Georgetown at DETROIT.

N. DAKOTA at Loyola.

Mercer at WAKE FOREST.

SOUTH CAROLINA at N. C. State.

Oregon at ST. MARY’S.

TEXAS CHRISTIAN at Southern Meth-
odist.

Villanova at TEMPLE.

NOTRE DAME at Army.

Washington State at S. CALIFORNIA. |

the formal secret ceremony was con-
ducted in the new club room of the fra-
ternity in Oak Row. The initiation of the
Scabbard and Blade pledges has grown
to be considered an event of public inter-
est to the entire student body.

The chapter, which was organized here
in 1922, holds two initiations regularly
every year, one in the fall and the other
in the spring, according to Bill Hill, cadet
miajor. The date for the spring initiation
has not been’set. this early in the year.

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

(Continued from Page 5)

sight into the psychological aspects of human
conduct is seldom found expressed simply.
Only where the children’s thoughts are given
do words bely their meaning, and then while
not terms which would be in the vocabularies
of children they create as good or a better
picture of the child’s thoughts than if ex-
pressed in childish language.

Wonderfully as the decadence of one char-
acter and the growth of another are deline-
ated the most wonderful thing that Miss
Richardson has created is Mary’s love which
bears all things and ever hopes and strength-
ens under increasing burdens. If the book
is accorded a permanent place as literature
it will be as a story of a woman’s devoted
love.

If you are fed up on happy ever afterward
stories and detective tales try Ultima Thule.
It is a crescendo of tragedy with underlying
themes that make it impossible to abandon
it with a feeling of satisfaction until the
last page terminates. “Too sad for for tears,”
says one critic. It is natural as life and in-
evitable as fate. Too inevitable, one is tempt-
ed to say.

M. W. Norfleet, Jr.

Be
be)

LAN

Eat :

Eats

Shy

CE’S

A Minister of the Gospel
SHOULD BE

As well equipped in his special field as any other man is in his
specialty.
TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President

Richmond, Virginia.

4+

“DRUGS”

|
“PRESCRIPTIONS”

COMPACTS

Pre-Holiday Sale on a Large Assortment

Make Our Store Your Store

White Drug Company

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

