>

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 10, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY ‘THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col- .
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post |
Uffice, Davidson, North Carotina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the |

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

“EB

Editor-in-Chief
E.

Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

4. HB. BLACK...W-..
J. W. McCUTCHAN --Mavaging Editor
W. C. RAGIN __._.. -~Managing Editor
m R. ALDERMAN. ..--Athietic Editor
J. . PRESTON. ...... --.-Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN |W. eee Feature Editor
@ FB. JARRATT.WWW Wo. ----Associate Editor
f D. MILLER..__.. .-Associate Editor
7 M. PRATT... 2.220. eee eee ene ene Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

J. AL CANNON 2 2 22 2 Lele Asst. Bus. Mgr.
boob. BOYD.... a Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER. ---SOlicitor |
P.M. CONWAY --Solicitor
J. HW. McKINNON Solicitor |
j. 0 MANN wanes on Solicitor
J B RUPP. Solicitor |
Joo. SEVIER ----Solicitor

rT

|
————————————————>—[—[—[_[_=z£_£_£_£_—a—KEE[{====>=>==> 1
REPORTERS’ CLUB |
i

KE. S. HEEPNER _. _ Sonne --- President
W.C,_KAGIN . nen Vice-President
Jj. Vv. dD. MIDDLETON -Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. RERRY C. G, PEPPER
J. C. MATTHEWS J. G. DUNKLID |
D. G. MARTIN W. S§. LEA |
J. R SMITH C. W. ¥. SPENCER |
D. O. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK '
A. i. NO EITEAD JOHN M. BROWN 1
NOW. Drees G. P. PARDINGTON

OCTOBER 10, 1929

—eeeE——EE=———————————————_——_—__—X_

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—-Predicts a battle royal between the Wildcat and
the Army mule.

—Has confidence in Monk Younger’s men to acquit
themselves nobly.

—Feels better now that another game is in the |
“won” column,

—Hails the freshman eleven as the most likely
looking bunch of recent years.

—Wants everybody to help make the -Y’s House
Party a great success.

—Needs more men who really want to write for
the campus newspaper. :

—Trys to appear on time each week, but asks for
your forbearance when it is late.

FRATERNITY AND YOU

During the past week nearly one hun-
dred members of the freshman class sig-
nified their intention of joining a college
fraternity. Tuesday night a week ago saw a
petiod of intensive rushing’ come to a close,
saw freshmen and fraternity men alike
heave great sigh of relief that the ordeal
and worry was ended. Many men, both old
and new at the game, consider the incident
closed, and are calmly awaiting initiation
day, for as yet the freshmen are merely
pledged, and the most serious step has not
been taken, An attitude of passiveness at
a time like this carries with it a serious
threat to the future welfare and happiness
of all concerned in fraternity life.

Any good fraternity holds up to its mem-
bers a very definite set of ideals, ideals based
on the really worthwhile things of life, and
it is for the adequate understanding and
realization of these great concepts that the
period between pledging and initiation is
inserted. Of course, the college must be sat-
ished that the new man is able to pass
enough work to justify his devoting part
of his valuable time to fraternity matters,
and unless the pledge passes the majority
of his subjects, he will be declared ineligible
for initiation when February rolls around.
Hence, it behoove$<évery would-be-initiate
Hence, it behooves every would-be initiate
the very start, and not experience the folly
and disappointment of waiting too long.
Aside from the requirements of the college,
the worthwhile fraternity will, hold up

|
.-Managing Editor |
'
|
|

‘no greater privilege given to man than that

scholarship as one of its’ most desirable
goals, _

Any freshman who desires to enjoy a rich
fraternity life, must determine to work for
that order. He will start to work in several
phases. of college activity immediately,
proving his sincerity by sticking to his job
faithfully, and doing all- in his power to
attain success in that field, for honors to the
man’ mean more honor to the fraternity.

Friendliness in every association will be
an attribute of the good fraternity man. He
will cultivate a pleasing personality, and a

willingness to mingle for the development-+

of his own self and for the sake of his chap-
ter, So many men make the fatal mistake of
assuming that, when they line up with a

WE’RE IN THE ARMY NOW |

There is something epic about the trip
that calls Davidson’s gridmen away this

week and transport them to the lair of Chris .

Cagle and his cohorts. Never before has a
Wildcat team travelled so far for an ath-
letic contest, and never has quite so color-
ful a contest been in the offing. The great
Army machine, always a serious contender
for national honors, boasting one’ of the
greatest backfield stars of history in Red
Cagle, the Louisiana flash, and bearing the
records of great Army teams of years past,
plays host to Monk Younger’s eleven from
the historic seat of Southern culture and
fighting football teams. Certainly, the meet-
ing of these two foes will be a significant
one, for, thereby, two entirely different fac-
tions are brought together, and to Davidson
especially is the challenge outstanding to
show her worth.

Two years ago Monk Younger turned out
the team that won the state title. The game
Saturday was scheduled largely ‘because of

‘the reputation established by that team of

1926. The following season it seemed that
the Wildcats were due to ride high and far
when the Florida Alligator went down to
the tune of twelve to nothing, but right
there the story ends, and since that Florida
game Davidson teams have done nothing to
increase their status. Some heartbreaking
battles have been lost, it is true, but the fact
remains that the team which faces Army
this week is one which for the past two
seasons has tasted more than its share of
defeat, even against mediocre competition.
Such a situation is not encouraging, espe-
cially in view of the tremendous odds of
weight and experience which the Wildcats
will.be called upon to face.

There is a silver lining, though, and be-
cause of it, no Davidson supporter is wor-
tying about that struggle Saturday. Why
it should be so we don’t know, but David-
son has never played the football of which
she was capable against a team rated weak-
er or ona par with her, That explains games
like the one in Spartanburg a few days ago,
and anybody who, has watched Davidson
teams play over a period of time knows that
there have been many like it. It take over-
whelming ddds to make the Wildcats show
their fangs in very dangerous fashion. Army
is going to experience that fact to the
amazement of all. After all, it is eleven men
against eleven on the field, and when half
of the layout hails from Davidson we can’t
see anything but a scrap ahead. ;

In the words of Clemson’s mentor, Josh
Cody: “When my men came on the field, [
hated to send them out against Davidson’s
weak looking team, but when they came off,
they knew they had been in a battle, and
Army will know the same thing. I never
saw such a game football team as that Dav- -
idson crew had.”

Greek letter group, they are shutting them-
selves away from ordinary friendships. On
the contrary, they have accepted a challenge
to prove to the campus at large that their
fraternity is the most congenial and whole-
some order in existence. It would be a won-
derful goal attained when the same love
and feeling abundant in the fraternity hall
broadened out to every man on the campus,
because the members of that lodge were
thoughtful and considerate. -
Important as the considerations above
are, they could be given a side track in view
of the great moral obligation which fra-
ternity association brings to bear upon the
members. It is a beautiful and inspiring
thought that Jesus himself chose the meth-
od of brotherhood to advance the greatest
cause ever conceived. That little fraternity
of twelve men revolutionized the world, and
ideals which were lived daily along the
shores of Gallilee have become the beacon.
lights of the ages. We believe thatthe fra-
ternity which fails to uphold the same ideals
of bodily and spiritual cleanliness is falling
far short of its goal. A fraternity should
take as its motto “Build Men,” and should
realize that thought to its fullest. There is

of turning a life into the right channel, and
we know of no greater potential agency for
that achievement than the college fraternity.
We would address this admonition to the
older men—think seriously of the pledge
you took—try to live it more this year than
ever before—give your freshmen no reason
to question the ideals of the fraternity as
they see them practiced by you—do all in
your power to make the life of the new men
rich in worthwhile things. |
And to the pledges we would 'say—begin
now to practice the development of scholar-
ship, of college activity, of friendliness to

all, and above all, make the clean life-your 7

guiding star. Give no member of your fra-
ternity cause to be ashamed. It is all neces-
sary if you want happiness.

‘Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Someone had the nerve to ask us how the name
of this column originated. Personally, we hadn't
seen anything remarkable in it or in the manner
the cognomen popped up. But the incidertal sur-

roundings were so much like Robert Ingersoll’s
| conception of the Universe, that we thought it
| might be of interest. It was on a cold winter night.
| We had been gnawing on some alphabet letters
: which we retrieved from the soup at the boarding
| house. After vainly endeavoring to swallow them,
j-we threw them on the floor in disgust. Imagine
| our embarrassment when we awoke to see “Cosmic
Chaos” staring us in the face. It really was a
shock. And that's that! .

On Saturday the ghost of Columbus will look
back over 437 years of ghostly adventure and will
pat itself on the back for having done a good job.
The story runs that when his flag-ship touched
land the sailors fell on their knees, and then pro-
ceeded t ofall on the aborigenes. Little did the
Indian know that the “white-winged” vessels
brought men who would suppress him. And all this

_reminds us that Christopher’s name was really
Cristoble Colon. Tough, isn’t it?

ft appears that Davidson is the “Ugly Ducking”
of Charlotte. As was pointed out on the editorial
page in a recent issue, Davidson men spend no
small amount in the Queen City. It looks like the
merchants are taking advantage of their geograph-
ical position to clamp down on college advertising.
No one is fully appreciated untif after he is sdead.

There has never been a boycott which proved

iron-clad, ‘but they do hurt. Think it over.

Zionists movements have been checked by the
Arab uprisings in Palestine. It is paradoxical that
this ancient country should again hear the thud
of marching feet. No nation i nthe world has en-

\dured the military campaigns, the bloody battles.
that this sacred ground has witnessed. The skin-
clad warriors of David, the phalanxes of Alexand-
er, the legions of Rome, the flurrying masses of
‘Arabia, the Knights Templar, the divisions of
Rritish, all have trod the same plains. A religious
war is terrible and never-ending.

Shades of Keats! Following is a copy of a letter
handed to us by your editor:

°

Dear Aunt Agnes:

Please advise me the best course to follow ag.

l am in a terrible predicament. I made the mis-

It is useless to:name them to you, becase I do
not know all of them myself. But there are four
at Converse, five at Agnes Scott, and three at
Queens. What shall I do?

sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles, cousins, and “in-
laws” love me and none of the girls love me. It 13
worrying me. I cannot sleep, eat, study, or go to
. the movies, without chewing gum. While applying
iodine to a cut last night, a little of it fell on my
| toe, and 1 thought that I would die if I didn’t get
a letter from “number fourteen.” ~
| Please, Aunt Agnes! I am just a young student
trying to get along in the world. Kindly advise
me. Penelope sends her love.
3 ——Yours forever,
PERSEUS.

Now Perseus, it. seems to the writer of this
column, there is no Aunt Agnes, that you are
worked up over nothing. Keep calm, cool, and

Run would do. Remember that you are young,
very young, and supposedly tender.

Then, also remember that yours is not the first
case of overwork. If you cannot snore, however,
take an antidote or an anecdote, preferably the
anecdote. Choose from quality, not from geo-
graphical location. Never let your head get the
best of you. ‘ a

As a bibliography we would suggest an article
in the last edition of the Chameleon of 1928-29. It
is entitled, “On Writing to-Women,” by Johnny
McKnight. Read it. :

For classic example remember Paris and the
three goddesses, For further particulars address
yqur queries to this column, accompanied by a
self-addressed «stamped envelope, with paper.

TWO BLACK CROWS

Moran and Mack, popularly called.the “Two

|
|
{
!
i

!
[

t
|

take of becoming acquainted with too many girls. !

My_mother loves me,, my father, loves me, my, |_

selected. If unobtainable, smoke a Murad—a Homa |

|
|

Black Crows,” whose hilarious phonograph records |
are known to the American public everyhere, make |
their! debut on the audible screen in a gay, all- |
talking and singing comedy-romance, appropriately |
titled, “Why Bring That Up?” In this latest Para- |
mount production which will be shown in Char-
fotte, at the Imperial Theatre during the week of
October 14, these two stars of ‘Earl Carroll's’
“Vanities." are supported by a‘fine cast featuring |
EveJyn Brent ahd Harry Greene. ‘
“Why Bring That Up?” was especially written
for Moran and Mack by Octavus Roy Cohan, the.
'

Smokehouse Saga

By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

Have you ever stopped to wonder how the great
art of bulling ever got its start? Well, if you
haven't, there no use in starting now, because the
whole sad story is on the“Verge of being immmor-
talized in cold, cruel print. List. gentle reader,
while I explain this mystery in words of one syl-
lable.

Canto the First °

‘Twas in the far distant land of Wherezit during
the reign of that good old king. Algernon the
Brue. Now, Algy was a good king and his reign
was’ prosperious. Peace had settled on the Sand,
commerce thrived, and soil was fertile, the people
were happy, and all that sort of drivel. However, -
the wise men of this fair little nation foresaw
trouble and declared that this period of pros-
perity was merely the lull before. the storm. At
this, the inhabitants of the country rose up as one
man and gave the aforesaid wise men the old
Wherezit razaboo, or in other words put the bird
on them with howling success. Were the wise men
dowuhearted about this? Not a bit. They merely
snickered up their long. flowing sleeves and went
right on with their prophecying of dire distress
in the future.

And sure enough, the trouble arrived on four
feet in the form of a monstrous BULL which
proceeded to devastate the beautiful countryside.
The people stood it as long as they could, but at
last it became rather monotonous, so they appeal-
ed to good King Algernon for succor. This pa-
thetic appeal put Algy in the proverbial bind, so
he passed the buck (or rather the bull) to his
knights by offering a fabulous reward to the
knight who would bring in the head of the BULL,
dead or alive. After a rather embarrassing pause,
Sir Behave volunteered to go. He polished the
gravy from his breastplate, emptied the goldfish
from his helmet, kissed Mama and Papa farewell,
and sold out. To make a long story longer, he
finally met the BULL face to face, much to the
embarrassment of all parties concerned. “Moo!”
declared the Bull with evident disgust, but Sir
Behave was no man to be daunted by the mood of
a bull, even though it was SOME BULL, as bulls
go, of course. Well, Sir Behave hauled off, bashed
the BULL on the dome, and threw its lousy car-
cass out of the country, thus originating the ex-
pression “to throw the bull.”

Canto the Second

As you can well imagine, this sort of thing gave
Sir Bchave no end of a reputation as a bull slinger
of the first water. Naturally, after this, all of the
other men began to go on expeditions for the
sole purpose of slinging the bull. A little later, the
women bégan to take up this fad, only when they ,
got together to sling the bull, instead of making a
reputation for themselves, they usually ruined the
reputations of all the neighbors. At last, bull sling-
ing became a national pastime which would nave
vicd-with Mah Jong, -cross-word puzzles, the Yo-
Yo, or knitting sweaters for tHe soldiers. And
strange as it may seem, the fad for tussing the
cow’s papa has come down even unti to the present
day without losing a bit of its original popularity.
If you don't believe that bull still runs wild, how
do you think that I have managed to fill up this
column?

Thus endeth the reading of the sacred scroll.
Selah.

‘A rather pompous gentleman descended the steps
of a Pullman and entered the station of a city
which was evidently strange to him. He sum-
moned a dirty little urchin to him. “Here, sonny,”
he said, tossing the kid a two-bit piece, “call me
a taxi.” ;

“You're a taxi, sir,” replied the brat disappear-
ing with the same two-bits.

popular author of the “Darktown Birmingham”
stories, long a feature in the Saturday Evening
Post. The story gives Moran and Mack. ample op-
portunity to carry on their line of “tired humor”
everyone knows so well, and to play the leading’
roles in a stirring story said to be based on their
early experiences in the theatre.

Moran and Mack, of course are a riot from the
beginning to end. Their peculiar hunior, slow,
drawling, sleepy, and shuffling defies all descrip-
tion. And there seems little doubt tha{ their debut
on the audible screen will be hailed with delight by
audiences everywhere. For if the “Two Black
Crows” are funny on records and the radio, they
are a scream in this picture which sbits their un-
deniable talents to the proverbial “T.”

The entire prodyction of “Why Bring That Up?”
has been produced on a lavish scale. There are
gorgeous scenes of a gala “first” night in dazzling
color. There .are beautiful, clever dancing girls
and several new song hits destined to be prime
favorites everywhere. .

‘Exelyn Brent gives a fine performance as the
girl who plays the good natured Mack for a “suck-
er,” and Harry Green, who was the theatre mana-
ger in “Close Harmony,” is hilariously funny as
the distracted manager of “The Black Crows.”
