THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929 : 5

Football Team Will Be
Guests at a Dinner in
New York on Saturday

Dr. A. B. Reese, 717, Will Be Host
at University Club to Coaches,
Team and Other Guests

POLICE ESCORTS TEAM
To Insure Rapid Return to New
York, Bus Will Be Escorted
By Police

|

No event occurring during the past several
years has so stirred up the interest of David-
son College alumni up north as the approach
ing foothall tilt between Uncle Sams’ soldiers
and the Davidson’ Wildcats at West Point
next Saturday afternoon, Elaborate prepara

tions have been made to entertain the team
while at West Point and in New York over |
the week-end, and. but few alumni in that |
section will be absent when the game starts

Dr. A. B. Reese, graduate in the. class of |
1917, will be host to the team, coaches and
a few others, at a dinner to be given at the
University Club in New York Saturday
night. Arrangements have been made for a
police escort from West Point to New York
after the game, in order to facilitate the
return of the bus to that city, the time of
the dinner being determined by the time of
arrival back in New York

Other alumni have been given an oppor-
tunity to attend this dinner upon the pay-
ment of $6.00, Doctor Reese individually
sharing the expense for approximately thirty
guests. Among those from this section who
will attend, besides the team and coaches are
J. A. Cannon, Concord; Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson,
and Ernest Milton, alumni. secretary.

Many cars containing Davidson alumni
will be in the motor cavalcade that will as-
semble at the West end of Bear Mountain
Ridge at 11:15 a. m., and proceed to West
Point, where the special luncheon has been
arranged at the Officers’ Club for Davidson
number attending this luncheon indicates that
approximately eighty alumni will be together,
alumni and guests. A rough estimate of the
Over three hundred alumni and friends will
be in the reserved section, according to the
alumni secretary, who this week mailed out
badges to alumni from Washington, D. C» to
Boston, Mass., and as far west as Niagara

Falls, N. Y.

1927 Corrections

The alumni secretary is following out the
plan of listing changes in addresses for the
different classes each week in The David-
sonian, and is devoting space in this issue
to the class of 1927. Some of these changes
have occurred during the summer months,
but most of the addresses have been received
since the opening of school. Corrections fol-
low, (N. C. is omitted after North Carolina
towns) :

FE. F. Bohannon, Jr.; 256 W. 73rd St., New
York, N. Y.

W. H. Bordeaux, Gladstone Hotel, 11th
and Pine Sts., Philadelphia, Pa.

D. M. Calhoun, Elizabethtown.

W. T. Covington, Jr., University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill.

GC. G. Davis, U. T. S., Richmond, Va.

H. L. Estridge, Southern Bell Tel. & Tel.
Co., Charlotte.

W. O. Green, Schreiner Institute, Kerr-
ville, Texas.

M. D. Haney, Jr., Mint St., Charlotte.

C. J. Hansell, Davidson.

P. F. Jones, U. T. S., Richmond, Va.

J. A. King, 2042 Norton Road, Charlotte.

J. A. Law, Jr., Pioneer Life Insurance Co.,
Greenville, S. C. :

L. H. Leathers, 609-614 Andrews Bldg.,
Spartanburg, S. C.

W. H. Leggette, Reynolds High School,
Winston-Salem.

R. L. Lincoln, University of Virginia, Uni-
versity, Va:

(Continued on page 6)

ed Cai feiigs ; ae eS j ; ;
}riesville, S. C., but moved to Rock Hill 27 | minutes after arrival, the rear wheels of the
4

4

| years ago, where he proved to be influential | nine-ton truck passing over his body. Mr

Additional Alumni Deaths

jin the life of that city. Not only was he city] Brown was troubled with nervous disorders

treasurer, but he held similar offices in fra-]for the past year, and was with a nurse at

ternal organizations, and was a leader inj}the time. When the truck approached he
several orders broke away from his nurse and ran toward
it. Mr. Brown had lived in Charlotte all his

}life, and for the past 25 years had been

. . . ¢ !
Continuing the alumni deaths which have |
sccurred during the past summer and carly | this institution from Charlotte, where he

graduated from Davidson in 1897, cntering

fall, the alumni secretary recounts the fol-|returned as a teacher and later became a
:

lowing, which completes the list Of those | reported on a Charlotte newspaper B. J. Brown, '01 superintendent of the meter department of
te has on his desk : | Mr. Wolfe's chief connection during the} — Redford Jethro Brown, aged 49, was fatal] the Duke Power Company
Fe ; | : ;
- - later years of his lite was with power com jly injured in Charlotte October 4 when he Rev, Morrison) Brown, 94, and Andrew
J. M. Alexander, '90 j panies, being a member of such organiza-| was run over, by a huge truck of the city |W. Brown, 99, both of Charlotte, are David
P tion in Henderson, Raleigh, Asheville, and | sanitar le nit ER s rushed to the }son alumni who. survive
James McKnitt Alexander, aged 65, died ral \I Tay : fee GAliel patter gett © was: cusherl to: the
‘ ; ‘ ie alladega, Ala., betore going to Salisbury,| Charlotte Sanatorium, where he died a few (Continued on page 6)
it his home in Charlotte on May 17, follow , RA fat < |
. brief ill Re oy ‘ where he Was manager of the Southern % -
the a hea ‘ ee ar pneumonia. Mex- | power ( ompany’s business in that city until Mea eare
ander had long been a prominent resident}, , :
: Hill health necessitated his retirement several
of Charlotte, and was generally known as | years azo “VOILA!”
Squire Alexander, After Jeaving Davidson
he located in Hickor ts @* merchant, later \ Ps ty ae P ‘ races
Shout : A stil exam, around o gym,
going to Charlotte. He was a direet lineal S. G. Moore, 1900 Bae
descendant of John McKnitt Alexander, see-| Samuel George Moore, $2, for sixteen Demand your vigor; verve and vim;
retary of the convention which drew up the] years treasurer of the city of Rock Hill, ee, ; ;
Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, |S. C., and prominent in that section, died at Ambitious studes must keep wm trim:
jand who was also one of the signers St. Joseph's) Sanatorium in Asheville on » rome ¢ : : : aes ;
net Kat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim:
’ June 20th, following an illness of a year, He | z
J. A. Matheson, ’90 had been a patient ine Asheville for three | “Excel sir!”
\ ! months : eee
unius A. Matheson, well known and es :
} e ; ee Me ’ Mr. Moore entered Davidson trom Guth

teemed business man of Greensboro, died |

suddenly at his home in Greensboro on June |

19, at the age of 59 vears. Death resulted |
from an attack caused by high. blood pres
sure, and the day: before his death he spent
the morning at his office.

After graduating from ~Davidson, Mr,
Matheson entered the teaching field, and was
at one time superintendent of schools in|
Durham, and-later on the faculty of N. C.|
C. W. He entered the real estate field follow- |
ing his retirement as an educator, and had
been working as a member of Matheson- |
Wills Real Estate Company for 12 years. He |
Was. active_in. civic and church enterprises, |
fd was chairman of the committee in charge |
of building the new First Presbyterian |
Church in Greensboro, which is being dedi
cated this week.

Dr. J. P. Matheson, "99, is a Davidson |
alumnus and brother who survives

C. T. Brewer, '91

Charles “fhomas “Brewer, a man widely |
known in the newspaper world, and parti- |
culafly in the Dakotas and Louisiana, died |
suddenly as he was trudging alone the high-
way near his ranch at North Bayou, Miss.,
on June 13. He was the victim of heart
disease. Mr. Brewer's death came just a
day or two before he was to leave his desk
in the New Orleans (La-) Times-Picayune
newspaper office, and permanently retire from
the field. :

The deceased did not graduate from David
son, but obtained his degree from the Uni
versity of South Carolina. He had had some
newspaper experience in Charlotte and Col-
umbia while a student, and drifted into Far-
#o, N. D., in 1891, where he became con-
nected with The Fargo Forum, and for years
was known as “€olonel’ Brewer because of
his column, “North Dakota Kernels.” Leav-
ing North Dakota in 1912, he went with
the St. Paul Dispatch for two years, and

ere ag On Dias bee Both are lines of national defense

where he remained unti) his death.

Mr. Brewer was a member of the Kappa
Sigma fraternity at the University of South
Carolina, and was one of the men who estab

ae Mississippi was a menacing flood. ‘meets an ever-growing stream of demands.
The telephone was the first line of To do this successfully the Bell System’s
defense, for over its wires the work against — expansion program embraces trans-oceanic
the flood was directed. Maintenance crews _ telephony through the ether and under the

lished the present chapter at Davidson.

V. R. Gaston, '93 , performed the same service as did tele- sea, to ships at sea and planes in the air—
; phone men in the signal corps in the war. —_ and above all, wire facilities that will carry
Virgil Riley Gaston, 60, died at his home ; ; : : : : :
i reeeaan oN: Ca taat dine | death resulting In the daily life of the nation, just as the voice, the typewritten word, the picture
from a stroke of paralysis, after he had suf- | surely as in emergency, the telephone to every corner of the land.

fered for several weeks. He was pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Aberdeen at
the time of his death. .

Mr. Gaston attended Columbia Theologi- BELL SYSTEM
cal Seminary in Columbia, S. C., after his
graduating from Davidson in 1893, and his A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
pastorates had included churches in Norfolk, 7
Va., Antioch, N. C., and Aberdeen.

| J: M. Wolfe, ’97

Jonn McKnight Wolfe died at his home in
Salisbury, N. C., on July 7, after an illness

that extended over several years. Mr. Wolfe | “OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS J UST BEGUN”

\

