N

a THE DAVIDSONIAN, AUGUST 30, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents’ per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. :

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m., Monday. Anonymous
articles will not be published.

_—_—SSSSSSS—SS__sSQg& SS
.ZEB_V. -LONG, Jr..... Bonne cecncescecemenncnce Editor-in-Chiet
E. H. McCABL... pene eemw eee ee nen ene enn ne Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK WWW. eee Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN. ----Managing Editor
8. S. WILEY.....0 0. -.Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. .---Athletic Editor
W. _C. RAGIN... --Feature Editor
J. F. PRESTON ----Feature Editor
IL OWN... ..Aasistant Editor
R. F. TARRATT --Associate Editor
CM. PRATIN --Associate Editor

4--Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

gee Asst. Bus. Mgr.
--Asst. Bus. Mar.
--Asst. Bus. .Mar.
Subscription Mgr.
---Selicitor

E. S. HUFNER oe President
y vO prAiN wate tenn ene ee eee eee Vice-President
}: Me Pere ETON ...000 Secretary- Treasurer
.G. Y C. G PEPPER
J. C. MATTHEWS J. G. DUNKLIN
D. G. MARTIN W. S. LEA

J. R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER
D. G. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTE G. P. PARDINGTON

__B. TOMKINS

OFF TO SCHOOL

Under the above caption, Hugh A. Query,
a graduate of Davidson College and editor
of The Gastonia Gazette, recently wrote an.
editorial that has particular application to
the freshmen going away to college, but
can also be applied to those who have al-
ready experienced collegiate life. We are
reproducing this Bitorial in its entirety, and
commend it to ydu for reading:

A few more days and thousands of boys and girls
will be off to college, many of them leaving the home
roof-tree for the first time. It will be a time of sorrow--
rowing goodbyes and a time of many “God-bless-yous.”

To the student, boy or girl, it is the opening of a
new door to a wonderful world, a-land of visions and
dreams, of high ambitions and limitless opportunities.
To the father and mother, who remain at home, it
is the realization of tong planning for the children
as it is also a time for heartache and apprehension.

As she goes about the loving task of getting the-
things ready for her boy or girl, the mother, on whom
this task falls almost in its entirety, lets her mind run
back to the day she first left home to go to school, It
was a time of great rejoicing with her, the realization
of a lovely dream. The probability is she lived in a
small town or village and was one of the community’s
sweethearts, a girl pet of the town. To go to college
was a rare thing in her young days and all her young
friends, both boys and girls, were out to see her
leave. They envied her, of course, but their best wishes
went with her and she knew that, back home, her
girlhood friends would be watching her career and
hoping for a great future for her. She gazed fondly
on the vanishing landscape as the local accommoda-
tion train pulled out of town. Somehow the little home

town never seemed just the same to her again, no
matter how often she went back to it. At college she
got a broader outlook on life than the people of her
home town, as good and kind and honest as the day is
long, ever had. She got from her new contacts with
fellow students, books, teachers and the college-town
atmosphere a new glimpse of life’s meaning, its oppor-
tunities and its responsibilities. After graduation she
went out into life better equipped than her less for-
tunate boy and girl friends who did not have the
privilege of going to college. She realized that her,
debt to society was greater because she had had this
opportunity to learn. She went out into life, married,
assumed the duties of a home-maker and bent her
energies to making good in her obligation to her newly
chosen home town and her family.

9, Now she has a boy of her own going away to
thot. Times have changed. Going to college is not
such a rare thing as it was when she was young. Many
of the young folks-take it largely as a matter of course
—this going away to college. They do not realize
perhaps, as she did, what it means in the way of sacri-
fice and labor and self-denial. Going to college costs
more now than it did then. It is an expensive proposi- -
tion. There are fraternities, athletic and social organi-
zations and a hundred and one other things, unknown
in her day, that call for money and time. Life is more
complex in all its ramifications than it was then.
Temptations to waste time as well as money are
doubtless greater than they were in her girlhood days.
All these thoughts and a thousand more run through
her mind as she packs the boy’s trunk and gets things
ready for his going away. She sees that all the but-
tons are on his clothes, that everything he needs is
in its place. She puts in a photograph of herself and
the boy's father. These pictures will keep them in his
mind. Probably some day when thé tempter is pulling
strongly at his elbow these photographs will pull
with more force the other way. She slips a Bible into
his trunk. Will he read it? He may and he may not,

| but when heSsees the Book lying on his table and

remembers that his mother put it in with his other
things and asked him to read it, an influence will
be wrought just the same. It will serve as an anchor

| just as surely as will his thoughts of home and his

recollections of the happy days here. |

So the day for his leaving arrives. Maybe a few
of his friends are there to sce him off. More than
likely some of them are going with him or are headed
in another direction for some other’school. The mother
pats her boy on the back, places a kiss on his cheek,
tells him to be a good boy and study hard, bravely
holds back the tears till he is safely on the train.
Her heart and her prayers go with him as mothers’
hearts have always done.

A new door has been opened to him; and some-
how a door has closed in the parent's lives. They know
instinctively thta their boy or girl as the case may be
will never be the same again. Life and nature demand
a fhange. May it be for the better. All their hopes
and fears, their smiles and tears, are wrapped up in
the youngster. He will never know, until he becomes
a parent himself and goes through the same experi-
ence what heroic stuff it really takes to stand up and
see one’s offspring start out on the long road to learn-
ing and to life, a road that cannot bring him back
just the same as he was when he left.

One of life’s dramas has started.

DORMITORY LORE
“Pipe down, West”—the cry splits the mid-
night air. Somebody pulls a wise crack, and the
fun is on. Windows go up, heads stick out, and

This handsome new structure will be occupied in its entirety for the first time when classes
convene this fall. 1¢ contains all administration offices, offices for the professors, and houses all de-

partinents except Chemistry and R. O. T. C.

soon every student lacking a sore throat is add-
ing his voice to the chorus. And it’s funny
enough until the wise cracks play out and other
expressions designed to convey disgust, con-
tempt, or perhaps pleading from the studious
ones, begin to drift into the noise. Then, on

other occasions, the beds begin to tumble on
the. fourth floors, doors sfam continuously, and
it seems that Ypres is being re-enacted.

Well, to get down to facts, it is well know
that certain dormitories on the campus get the
reputation early in the year of being the cen-
ters of most disturbances. One year may see
the honor, if it may be called such, change to
another building. As a matter of fact, it is
changing, not from the buildirig, but from the
men. The group of students in the dormitory
have it in their power to make: that building
the most coveted rooming place on the campus,
or the biggest “hole.” Of course, there must be
plenty of fun, and wherever there are boys you
can het there will be, but the thing we are
deploring is the habitual disturbance which con-
nects itself with the dormitory. Often it is car-
ried too far, simply because the men fail to real-
ize that they are really proving a nuisance to
others as well as bringing coals of fire on
their own heads, A change for the better. lies
with the roomers in the building.

When the Davidson student body voted out
hazing some five years ago, it took a step which
has incurred a good degree of support. Very
little real hazing has gone on since. However,
several cases have arisen lately in which fresh-
men have left school more because of the ap-
pearance of hazing than by actual hazing. Per-
haps these were cases in which the new men
placed a wrong interpretation on the acts of
upper classmen, or/-dn the other hand, perhaps
some older men asserted themselves a little too
strenuously. Both parties can be wary of their
actions with benefit to the college. It does not
help any to have tales going around about the
hazing at Davidson, while, as a matter of fact,
the practice is extinct. Just a word of warn-
ing, therefore, for freshman to remember that
they are unaccustomed to the ways of upper
classmen, and for the older men to remem-
her that they were freshmen not so long ago.

Another common trouble around September
twelfth is the old, old case of home-sickness.
Try as we may, we can’t avoid it. Seems to us
that it is a mighty good thing to think enough
of home to miss it a lot, but after the first
attack, don’t let that malady linger. That is
where the troubles comes. Upper classmen can
do wonders with a home-sick freshman, and
it’s really up to them to do it.as"Davidson men.
The “Y” secretary is a man for all freshmen to
confide in, be the trouble what it may. Don’t
fail to call on him.

COMING DAYS

With the opening of college just around
the corner and most of the student activities
marking time until the official bell sings,
The Davidsonian undertakes with this issue
to present an idea, at least, of what the col-
and to offer a hearty welcome to incoming
lege holds in store for her returning sons,

students. Much information of use to the
new men and of interest to the old will be
found in these columns, and, while we trust
that it may be of practical value, we also
hope that every man entering Davidson this
fall will consider this edition of the paper as
a handshake from the entire school. Every-
one connected with Davidson College, from
the President to the student, greets the men
who will fill the campus within the next ten
days, wishing them all happiness and every
success as they begin again the quest for
knowledge.

Davidson has a wealth of rare priv-
ileges for the man who comes with an un-
derstanding heart. The glorious past of
which Davidson men are proud to boast, and
the bright future which she now sees ahead
of her, have been made possible only be-
cause the men of the student body have en-
tered whole-heartedly into the practical as-
pects of Davidson’s spirit. The man who
would partake of Davidson’s treasures most
must pledge himself to become a part of her
life, He must accept her little conventional-
ities of social life, her progressive system of
athletics, her traits of study, and her code
of student honor. It is by no means a ques-
tion of losing one’s personality in the crowd.
Rather it is a question of applying the per-
sonality to the maze of problems which
confront any college man, and being ruled
in conduct by the idea of mutual co-opera-
tion, seeking for those things which drive
home to the searcher the worth of his col-
lege experience. In the course of time, hav-
ing come to love the exercises of the school
because he has taken active part in them,
the man feels his own personality strength-
ened and developed by the spirit of his col-
lege. Spirit finds its only realiization in
practical application.

And so, as we face the coming days, won-
dering what they hold of friendship, honor,
growth, may we understand that the result
lies primarly in our own hands. May we cul-
tivate that understanding heart for all prob-
lems, that determined will which has meant
success to all who possessed it. May our
contacts with men be sincere. May our ef-
forts to rise be fair to ourselves and fair to
the college. May achievement be our reward
because service was our goal.

thar,
