2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

“Fighting” ’Cats Lauded
By Newspapers of Nation

Army Game Gains Reputation for
Davidson in the North

It is common knowledge among Davidson
College students that the Wildcat football
team played one of the greatest games of
its career against the United States Military
Academy at West Point. on October 12.
Students themselves would have a tendency
to be biased, but disinterested comment from
the newspapers of the state and north give
high praise to the performance of Davidson's
representatives far away from home that
day, and dispels the belief that the student
body would be prejudiced in lauding the
work of every Wildcat member.

From many sources the following com-
ment has been gleaned, and it serves the pur-
pose of making every Davidson student,
alumnus, or friend of the college, justly
proud of the manner in which the football
members disported themselves on the grid-
iron that day:

“The Army eleven defeated Davidson Col-
lege today after a stubbornly fought. battle
by a score of 23 to 7. The Southerners out-
played the Cadets for the first two periods,
but the Army juggernaut, with Chris Cagle
leading, mowed down the plucky Carolin-
ians in the third quarter. The Davidson line
outcharged Army at the outset, * * * and
Southern kickers outpunted Murrell.”’—New
York Times.

“Davidson College gave the Army a sur-
prise at West Point, the Wildcats holding the
soldiers to a 23 to 7 score, leading the Cadets
at the half, 7 to 3. * * * The Wildcats dis-
play of fight against the heavier Army team
was characteristic of the form displayed in
previous contests.’—Associated Press com-
ment, Monday after the game.

“Davidson's scrappy Wildcats—that’s a
team, folks, of which one can always be
proud. * * *’—News and Observer, Ral-
eigh, comment Monday.

“Wildcats from North Carolina, in the
person of Davidson College’s football team,
nearly shivered the armor of the Army, * * *
the first half here today ending, 7. to 3, for
the Southerners. * * * Fans fully expected
to see Army humbled after watching the
enormous ground gains of the Davidson
team during the first half.’—New York
World.

“Davidson alumni who attended the game,
several hundred strong, were jubilant at the
magnificent game the Wildcats put up.”—
Charlotte Observer comment.

“Army trims Davidson, 23 to 7, in hard
battle.”—Boston (Mass.) Globe, who simply
listed other scores on the front page.

“Too many good things can not. be said
about the plucky Wildcats of Davidson for
the gallant stand they made against Biff
Jones’ splendid machine * * * The Pres-
byterians played a first half that may well
go down in history as one of the greatest
exhibitions of fighting spirit and grit ever
shown on a gridiron. * * * Regardless of the
fate of the team during the remainder of the
season, alumni and students of the’ institu-
tion may always point back to that. first
half score—Davidson 7, Army 3.”—Concord
(N. C.) Tribune.

“Let us not.forget the valiant stand of
those players up Davidson way, who held
the powerful Army team to a closer score
Saturday than any one had thought they
could do. Outweighed about 20 pounds to the
man, the lighter Presbyterian eleven out-
played the soldiers in the first period, scor-
ing one touchdown and threatening with an-
other as the period ended.”—Gastonia (N.
C.) Gazette. F

“Army received a spine thriller from
Davidson College, the North Carolina Wild-
cats, in a tight football game here this after-
noon when the first half ended,:7 to 3, for
the Southerners. * * * Army could not, hold
the doughty Southern boys and another
touchdown was threatening when that fa-
mous first half ended Army 3; Davidson 7.
—Associated Press report of the game.

“Davidson did nobly and went. down. game-
ly,” was statement accompanying cartoon in
Raleigh (N. C.) News and Observer.

“Army caught something of' ‘a ‘tartar in
Davidson College today, a plucky, fast ag-
gregation from Davidson, N. C. *,* * The
Southerners had Army on its heels at the
‘end of the first periods with the score David-
son 7; Army 3; * * * Army’s.forward wall
yielded much yardage to the onrushing
Southerners—during the. early ‘part ofthe
contest.’—New York Herald-Tribune,

“Cagle and Murrell had rather hoped to
spend the afternoon with blankets around
them, but a Davidson team too fast and
nervy for the Army understudies kept the
first-string backfield busy all ‘the time.’—
Time Magazine, October 20.

“Army had its hardest opposition so far

this year from Davidson College. The South:

Halverstadt Meets
DuBose in Net Final

E. Z. DuBose, sophomore star, furnished
the first upset in the Fall Tennis Tourna-
ment when he defeated Captain F. W. John-
ston in the semi-finals: DuBose, No. 1 and
captain of last year’s Freshman team downed
Johnston in straight sets 6-3, 6-1, 6-4, to gain

A. N. Halverstadt who defeated W. L. Poe
6-1, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4, in the other semi-final
match.

The first and second round matches all
went as was expected and all seeded players
with the exception of S. B. McLean, who
defaulted to Calder, who entered the quarter-
finals, In the first round, ‘the following
matches were played:

Halverstadt defeated Enloe 6-0, 6-0; Pettus
defeated Spencer 10-8, 5-7, 6-0; Calder ‘de-
feated T. W. McLean 6-4, 2-6, 6-3; Harri-
son defeated Caldwell 6-1, 6-2;°Poe defeated
Epps 6-0, 6-1; Preston defeated McCutcheon
6-4, 4-6, 6-1; Rusk defeated White 6-3, 6-4;
Johnston defeated Marrow 6-2, 6-1.

Roddey, Jackson, and Abernathy advanced
to the second round on byes and Coker, Fain,
McLean, S. B. DuBose, and Moore regeived
defaults.

The second round matches:

Halverstadt defeated Coker 6-2, 6-2; Fain
defeated Pettus 6-0, 6-0; McLean, S. B., de-
faulted to Calder; Poe defeated Harrison
6-1, 6-1; DuBose defeated Roddey 6-0, 6-0;
Rusk defeated Preston 7-5, 6-2; Jackson

erners took good advantage of every oppor-
tunity ‘they had to operate their attack * * *
Davidson strategy was in error only once.”
—Comment of Capt. Biff Jones, Army head
coach, in New York Evening Post, Monday

the finals in the turney, where he will meet |’

Wildcat Tackle

Milton, whose defensive playing in the
line has figured largely in Davidson’s suc-
cess this season.

defaulted to Moore; Johnston defeated Aber-
nathy 6-0, 6-0.

Quarter Finals? ;

Halverstadt defeated Fain 6-4, 6-2; Poe
defeated Calder 6-1, 6-2; DuBose defeated

Rusk 6-2, 6-0; Johnston defeated Moore
6-3, 6-2.
In the semi-finals Halverstadt defeated

Poe 6-1, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4; and DuBose defeated
Johnston 6-3, 6-1, 6-4.

What President Stockton said about that
lay student who hadn’t had a bath had the

after the game.

aspects of a dirty joke.

Davidson Golfers
Defeat Salisbury

On Wednesday October 16, Davidson’s
Golf Team defeated the Salisbury Country
Club by a final score of 11% to 6%. This
was Davidson's second meet and -also her
second victory, the first having been won
from Gastonia. Capt. Arthur Mills was un-
able to play in the meet due to slight illness.

Pepper of Davidson and Walker of Salis-
bury tied for the low score with 76 each.
In the second match Woodson of Salisbury
defeated Bowles. In the third match Thomp-
defeated Skinner. The

son of Davidson
fourth match was scored up for Davidson
when Hart defeated Harrison. Both four-

somes came out all square.

The most spectacular shot was that of
Hart, who on the 17th hole (whith is the
342 one) sank his 125 yard approach on par
four hole. This play of Hart secured for
Davidson the Harrison-Hart match.

Before the meet, the Salisbury Club gave
a lunch for the Davidson boys at their club
house.

A return match with Salisbury is expected
to materialize soon.

Scoring : Points
Davidson:
BeNpeicectoscss ss Sou eee eee ukee Lees 1%
BOWIGS esbecsecusaucsecousseeeelelcues 1
UnOMosolwasssenrosee ea seveneasetesse0
Hattes*sedessack sonst Seen eae cosedecG
iPepperanompson) sasccsoloseccs cos SS 1%
Bowlessblatt. scussessesusstascseuucows 114
11%
Salisbury :
Wialketetcs aes cose cee kee ee Sakees 1%
IWiOOUSON (accencuccmecoocwussueeuaaduud 2
Skinners Ssissss esses s esse ess
VTE Co) pig ges oP popmeneg yey pegeiege pee ie ene age re

FIRST MEETING HELD
BY SPANISH SOCIETY

At the first meeting of the Spanish Club
this year, Tuesday, October 15, 1929, A. G.
Randolph, Jr., was elected Secretary and
Treasurer of the organization. He succeeded
Albert Cowan, who failed to return to school.

The membership at the present is composed
of the following: Faculty members; Profes-
sors Fleagle, Goldiere and Weaver; Stu-
dents, P. R. Alderman, E. S. Bettis, R. P.
Enloe, S. L. Gant, W. T. Hancock, W. L.
Hart, P. S. Hudgens, D. C. Hunter, E. C.
Kraemer, J. R. Marks, R. W. McDermid,
W. G. McGavock, J. K. Pepper, A. G. Ran-
dolph, W. R. Robinson, and R. S. Torrence.

The officers of the club are the following:
W. L. Hart, President; J. K. Pepper, Vice-
President; A. G. Randolph, Secretary and
Treasurer.

THREE DORMS HAVE
TELEPHONE SERVICE

Davidson is assuming city like porportions,
even in the dormitories. Mrs. N. T. Smith,
Supervisor of Dormitories for the college,
announces the installation of telephones in
Watts Hall, East, and West Dormitories.
The work of installation was completed last
Tuesday. Needless to say, the phones are the
old reliable sort which necessitate turning
the crank to get “Central,” and the dial sys-
tem is not yet to be enjoyed at Davidson.

“Do you suppose the money I got from
that Scotchman is any good?”

“It ought to be—it’s aged inthe wad.”
Wie IKépeskinieh eee sent auL wom owe soae 1%
Woodson-Harrison _--.--=------------- 1%

6%

...1n a cigarette it’s

“TRUE MERIT IS LIKE A RIVER; the

deeper it is, the less noise it makes.”
There is nothing sensational about Chester-
fields; good tobaccos, blended and cross-blended,
the standard Chesterfield method, to taste just
right. But—haven’t you noticed howsmokers are
changing to Chesterfield, for that very reason —

“TASTE above everything *

|

t ¥
e
54
8

hesterfield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not oni, BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

MILD ... and yet
THEY SATISFY

