\

“properly direct and the freshmen. The
only outsider who been asked to speak
Rev. Edgar A. Woods, pastor of the First | .

| SEPTEMBER 12 e 3 7 THAT TEAM
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., AUGUST 30, 1929 No. 1

DR. WALTER

L. LINGLE

OF RICHMOND, VA. IS
DAVIDSON PRESIDENT

He Was Elected by Board of Trus-
tees Last ent and
Anounced His Acceptance
July Is Ist

DAVIDSON GR GRADUATE
Has Already Written First Message

and Addresed Part of it to
Students

Dr. Walter Lee Lingle is the new presi-
dent of Davidson College. When the major-
ity of the students disbanded for the summer,
they had no intimation as to the one who
would head their. college, following the re-
tirement of Dr. W. J. Martin. Dr. Lingle
was elected by the board of trustees, meeting
on June 2, and one month later he notified
Mr. R. A. Dunn, acting chairman of the
board, of his acceptance.

The new president of the college has just

\\arrived, and will be here to greet the stu-

Yents on their return. He came here from
Richmond, Va., where during the past five
years he has been full-time president of the

resbyterian Assembly Training School, and

_/*rior to that time was acting president for

eight years. During the summer he has been
traveling up and down the eastern states,
and once into the middle west, to fill en-
gagements at conferences.

Dr. Lingle is a graduate of Davidson, and
aside from his personal knowledge of the
college while he was a student here, he has
kept in intimate and direct touch with the
institution during the past 27 years, having
been a member of the board of trustees since

(Continued on page 4)

Alarm Clocks Will
Be Constantly Used

Alarm clocks at Davidson College will
tingle a few minutes earlier this fall for
those students who desire to be served with
breakfast, because of a change in the sched-
ule. Those who do not care for the early
repast and do not have a first period class
can awaken in a leisurely fashion, for the
chapel period has been changed from 8:30
a. m. to 10:45 o'clock.

The new schedule lists breakfast at 7:55
a, m., and the first class at 8:25, instead of
8:55. Lunch has also been changed from
1:30 o’clock to 12:30, giving the division of
four morning classes and three in the after-
noon, It was formerly five in the morning
and three in the afternoon. R. O. T. C.
drills are all scheduled for the last period,
while heretofore a number of them were
held just before lunch. These changes have
been under consideration for several years,
but the advocates of them did not succeed
in getting them passed until last spring.

The Chambers Building was finished
and accepted by the architect and the
building committee before Dr. Martin re-
tired from the Presidency, July lst.

Third Orientation Program Planned

For Benefit of

Wide Variance of Subjects Will
Be Discussed—Attendance is
Required

Freshmen generally come to college be-
wildered. New surroundings and new situa-
tions have a tendency to confuse them. Until

a few years ago the only manner in which

they could orientate themselves was the med-
ium of asking questions, and even then some
of the new men hesitated to go forward for
fear that they would display ignorance before
the upperclassmen.

In order that the newcomers might famil-
iarize themselves with the place where they
were to live for the next four years, and in
order to acquaint them with the traditions
and ideals of the campus, and at the same
time give them a clear conception of the
program of work as a college man, the offi-
cials of Davidson inaugurated an orientation
program, prepared only for the freshmen to
help them feel more at home and enable them
to get started in their work more effectively.

For two years it has been satisfactorily
conducted, and the accruing good and benefits
-have lead the college authorities to make it
a permanent fixture of their year’s calendar.
The third program has been arranged for
Tuesday and Wednesday, September 10th
and 11th, and attendance at all of the meet-
ings # required. **

Participants at the two-day sessions in-
clude the leading members of the student
body, and prominent members of the faculty

“and administration, who are well-acquainted
with the life. of Davidson and are able to

rf

~ Presbyterian Church, of Salisbury, who will
use the ‘subject, “College Ideals.”
All of the sessions will be in the auditor-

The complete program follows:
“Tuesday, Sept. 10th
7:20 P. M.

Ft

fe ec ae

Incoming Freshmen

Re-Exam Schedule
Has Been Arranged

Many students from time to tiine have
made inquiries regarding the time of re-
examinations. The college recently issued
a schedule, which is being’ reproduced
below for the benefit of those who may
be delinquent in their studies. If you must
take a re-examination, carefully ‘examine
the schedule, so that there will not be any
delay or confusion.

Please note that all of the re-examina-
tions and entrance examinations are to
be held in Room No. 124 of the Chambers
building.

TUESDAY, SEPT. 10th
9 A. M.-12 Noon

All examinations with Profs.:, Douglas,
J. L., Wood, Currie, Mebane, Schenck
(Math.), Brown (Math.), Cullum, Hender-
son, Kimbrough.

3 P. M.-6 P. M.

All examinations with Profs.: Watts,
Fleagle, Lingle (French), Goldiere, Vow-
les, Blythe, Moore, and in R. O. T. C.

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 11th
9 A. M.-12 Noon

All examinations with Profs.: Douglas,
J. M., Lyon, Arbuckle, Thies, Porter, Mc-
Connell, J. W., Fulcher, Harding, Grey,
Hood, Davis.

3 P. M.-6 P. M.

All examinations with Profs.: McCon-
nell, J. M., Williams, Shewmake, Erwin,
Beaty, Cumming, Lilly, Lingle (History),
Brown (Economics).

- 7:30-10:30 P. M.

All examinations with Profs.: Sentelle,
Richards, Foreman, Schenck (Bible):

REMEMBER

The Registrar’s office, where
courses are assigned, will not be
open until Tuesday, September 10th.
Office hours: 9 a. m. to 12:30 p. m.,
2 p. m. to 5 p. m. All freshmen must
register -on Tuesday, September
10th. No upperclassmen will be reg-
_ istered that day. All upperclassmen
will be assigned courses on Wed-
nesday, September 11th. Assignment
of courses will be in the banquet
hall of Chambers building.

Freshmen may pay their fees
Monday afternoon when they go to
the Treasurer's office to get their
room assignments. Freshmen as
well as upperclassmen may pay
their fees Tuesday and Wednesday.

Freshmen vaccinated for small-

pox and inoculated for typhoid
fever before they come to David-
son. ‘

— v0.

No arrangements aré made to
take care of students before Mon-
day; don’t arrive early and expect -
to gain access to your room. It
won't be open.

If any student knows that he will
be prevented from returning to Da-
vidson and has not notified the
Treasurer, do so immediately. If
you don’t, you'll lose $10.00, but the
college will lose $200.00. Further-
more, some student might be re-
fused admission, for it will appear
as if we were filled up.

Who’s Who at Davidson

For the information of the freshmen,
and also for the benefit of the upperclass-
men, the following Who’s Who in the
Davidson student body is published.
It is suggested that this be kept on your
desk for reference, for it will probably be
of use several times during the year.

STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
Student Body

CARL R. PRITCHETT ..--------------- President
Classes
. McGUIRE ....-...-----, Pres. Senior Class
a 1. GOODYKOONT? -------Pres. Junior Class
D. z eoSe oe padewanee Pres. Sophomore Class
Court of Control
A, H, WHITTLE 22.220. c cnc ic cece nen cccdens, Judge
M. C. A
PR: BROWN cobebubiscdadivwesckecsuun= President
PUBLICATIONS
The Davidsonian
Z. V. LONG hs bneade cedadenihens Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McéOALL chen: Business Manager
Quips and Cranks ;
Gy (Ms GORRA LL ssdscessacvanccdiuaas Editor-in-Chief
Wi RiP RULdsls | canes cusesadonilance Business Manager
The Chameleon . ;
BiB, JARRALL. ccccenccoccencnesn Editor-in-Chief
E, L, ROBERSON -.-.----------- Business Manager
A, W. McLEAN ......---...--- Business Manager
Wildcat Handbook ;
B.D MILDER cvcscahttheoencecoss Editor-in-Chief
ATHLETICS
T. W. BROHARD, Jr. ----- Pres. Athletic Ass’n
Football :
HON HARPER -.cubadlsweksunuvenndcsess :..Captain
Fi Cy OUOSE: cco: cola bbeceenesonncubsuecn Manager
, asketball f
F. W. JOHNSTON Bee EMGLe tat cacuantobdse Captain
J. A. DISSONG dete csctsctuphsasaucobenmee Manager
Basebali :
We) SB BU GUM: cosdsatansecenctnsccsanooee Captain
Ep ATS MILIIS) (Rs ccscawunetnns concagdnass Manager
AoE AWHILE DED cddcatbeccccsancanewpoecs| Captain
L L. -Manager
Wrest! ;
J. B. CHRISTENBURY ..---. Captain
Dy CROBERIS . concccstancecconesuspiens Manager
‘Tennis
F. W.: JOHNSTON ioccccc ocd sn cect ac nw nce Captain
Ws We MOORN | coras Siar see cco en asdsbaee Manager
Cc Leader ;
E. S. HEEFNER ...-...-..-..-.----. Varsity
Forensic Council
R. M. CHRISTIAN Jesicis sscccnceapentieee. President
Pan-Hellenic Council
Cc. C. ORR, Jr. -President
LITERARY SOCIETIES
Eumenean
E. E. MARSH Pisa troy President
ic
R. T, ELLETT President
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Volunteer Band
J. D, McPADYEN Vi... 2... nc. President
terial Band
F. D, MILLER President
Cc. E. T. C.
V. A. MILTON ---President
MISCELLANEOUS
Glee Club”
Cc. C, ORR, ef President

Red and Black era
J. Z. PRESTON President

Band °
C. C. ORR, Jr. :..-Captai

NEW DAVIDSON PRESIDENT

Dr. Walter Lee Lingle, formerly president of the Presbyterian Assembly Train-

president of Davidson College.

ing School, of Richmond, Va., who arrived here today to begin his duties as

Five New Members of Faculty Will

Improvements Made
During The Summer

Immediately after commencement, cam-
pus forces were organized to make nu-
merous changes before the opening of
the new semester. Most of these improve-
ments are nearing completion. To give
you a conception of what has been done
a number of them are listed below:

The new pipe organ was installed dur-
ing the summer and a new Duo-Art Stein-
way piano, purchased for the new au-
ditorium,

. The grading around the north end and
east side of the Chambers Building has
required the moving of nearly 4,000 yards
of earth which has been placed on the
south side of Chambers in the grove op-
posite the church and on the golf course.

The steam mains which were leaking
have been removed from the boiler room
to the rear of the Chambers Building, and
a new line has been laid to connect the
chemistry laboratory with the central
heating plant.

The Armory will be used this year in
conection with the Physical Education
work. This necessitated a number of
changes in this building.

The R. O. T. C. will be housed in a
temporary building, and this building had
to be changed to meet the requirements
of this department.

A force of carpenters and painters have
been going over the President’s home
preparatory to its occupancy by Dr.
Lingle and his family.

pee
Changes have been made at the laundry

(Continued on page—4)

a

Greet Students When Session Opens

Two Are Substituting and Two Re-
place Others Who Have Gone
Elsewhere

When the Davidson College faculty meets
in its first session of the 1929-1930 scholastic
year on Monday, September 9th, five new
faces will be seen among the forty-odd mem-
bers of that body, one of the men returning
after a year’s leave of absence, two of them
substituting for professors who will be study-
ing at other institutions this year, and the
remaining two replacing others who have
left Davidson.

Prof. Lewis B. Schenck returns as asso-
ciate professor to occupy the new chair of
religious education, after spending the past
year at the Yale Divinity School in prepara-
tion for this work. He is a graduate of
Davidson, did his theological work at Union
Theological Seminary, and has studied at
Princeton Theological Seminary. Professor
Schenck will teach several courses in Bible
and one in mathematics.

Prof. Fred L. Blythe and Prof. A. C. Gorr
will be away on a leave of abscence, the
former planning to study in Spain, and the
latter at the University of Pennsylvania.
W. R. Weaver, Jr., graduate of Davidson
last June, will substitute “for Professor
Blythe and will be assistant professor of
Spanish. Mr. Weaver spent the summer at
Middlebury College in .Vermont. James
Truesdale, a bachelor of arts and master of
arts, graduate of Duke University, will’ be
assistant professor of Greek and German,
substituting fér Professor Gorr.

Capt. William L. Blanton, of the United
States infantry, has been designated by the
government to replace Lieut. R. C. Beckett.
Lient. ‘Beckett has completed four years at
Davidson, and will go to Cheyenne, Wyom-
ing from here. Captain Blanton comes to
Davidson from ‘Honolulu. J. T. Kerr, grad-
uate of Davidson in the class of 1929, re-
turns as an instructor: to replace: D. H.
Howerts im the: ees of chemistry."
