>

+
\ a ae w

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

—
——

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

5 FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

ublication must be in the hands of the
itors by 7:00 p. m., Monday. Anonymous
articles will not be published.

Articles. for
Managing

ZEB V. LONG, Jr.
E. H

cOn Le Editor-in-Chief
F} Cc

anager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Managing Editor
---..-.--.-Managing Editor
Managing Editor
SUGhacoawauu be sbsnucdbubod -Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
eon new annnnnn anne nnweenean snes Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
A te Editor
Editor

OnR SH e
ROMP oS

Beeeesce
dea Sazee

A :

BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON. ----Asst. Bus. Mgr.
i, MOURON i sssisiescis eee Asst. Bus. Mer.
G. D, EVERINGTON. Asst. Bus, Mgr.
L. L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER....... " ; Solicitor
P, M. CONWAY Solicitor
Ui ELE MURINNON Soiiscsciantisisc eat ig saan Solicitor
} ¢ OAS onbuae Solicitor
J. UL. SEVIER 2277. apa ste

REPORTERS’ CLUB
. S. HUFNER

E id
Wi GemAGINGc css ccs ccs. acute Vice-President
J. V. D, MIDDLETON ..-__............ ScorslatysPiccdiee,
J. G. BERRY G. PEPPER
J, C. MATTHEWS - G. DUNKLIN
. G. MARTIN W. S. LEA
J. R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER
D. G, STEPHENSON o W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
RF. NORTON G. P. PARDINGTON
. B C. B. TOMKINS
=

SEPTEMBER 26, 1929
===S=S=—————=aaa—=[=——____—_—_—_———__.
PAN-HELLENIC RULES

In accordance with a rule passed by the frater-
nities on the Hill, you will please not télk to any
fraternity man on matters pertaining to a frater-
nity until 7:00 p. m., Tuesday, October 1, but will
consider the matter of this invitation either by
yourself or with any one whom you know is not a
member of any fraternity.

If you receivejmore than one invitation you are
to talk with not more than two men from each
fraternity from which you have received an in-
vitation. You shall be allowed to talk with each
Pair of men not longer than one-half hour. After
you have talked with the representatives of each
said fraternity you shall be allowed a half hour to
consider the matter, during which, or before which
time, nothing you say will be considered as a
promise for membership.’ ‘

If after the half hour has expired you desire to
join one of the inviting fraternities you may go
to one of its members and pledge yourself.

After each interview you-should-return at_once
to your room where you may be found by the next
fraternity which has an interview with you.

You will please adhere strictly to these rules for
your own protection.

APPRECIATION

As the days speed along toward accom-
plishment of the various college exercises, a
spirit of co-operation with and approval of
the new administration is very evident in
the student body. It seems that on every
hand there is a new willingness to take the
part of the college, to support-her programs,
and to make the living of her glorious tra-
ditions somewhat more of a practice than a
fancy to be idealized. Not only is the above
statement true of the student body as a
whole, but the individual Davidson man is
occupying his rightful position as the most
vital factor in the spirit and success of the
institution. .

_ We believe that the incoming administra-
tion, headed by Dr. Walter L. Lingle has
entered whole heartedly into every interest
of the students, and is evincing a genuine
desire to create an exceedingly close bond
of understanding between the college and
her men. The students appreciate such an
attitude, and the fact is made evident to a

close observer of student body thought and .

reactions. Happy days and fruitful ones,
from every standpoint of college life seem
to be the promise which the future holds.

In concrete works and in the greater work

of prolonging nearly a hundred years of
noble and inspiring college thought, the
coming days will indeed be rich.

; Something of a pledge from the student
‘at large might be comforting and helpful to
_ Dr. Lingle and his co-workers as they face

_ the constant challenge of college life. Speak-

_ ing for every man on the Davidson campus,
_and pledging constant devotion and willing-
3s to serve, the news organ of Davidson

‘its greeting and its appreciation to

chosen to guide the destinies of a
ution. . ¥

DR. LINGLE’S CODE

The following editorial from The Char-
lotte Observer is printed here for the bene-
fit of those who may not have seen it in its
original appearance. The article sums u
very well indeed the points of Dr. Walte
L. Lingle’s opening address to the fresh-
men, and the merit of those points may
well be reviewed by every’*member of the
student body:

It was an old-fashioned. talk by an old-fashioned
educator the students assembling at Davidson Col-
lege heard when Dr. Lingle, president of that in-
stitution, advised how they could get “the best”
out of college life, starting them right with sug-
gestion that they fall in love with their studies.
The student who gives these first place in his con-
sideration is the student who is sure to get the
best of college advantages. .Development of the
personality, Dr. Lingle advised, is an asset largely
to be desired, for, as the president maintained, per-
sonality is the most wonderful thing in the world
and a man’s success in life depends more largely
on that single factor than upon any other, and it
is easily developed. Dr. Lingle advised that their
studies will help the students, the imprint of other
personalities will help, the cultivation of personal
appearance and manners will help, and there is -
the finishing up requirement of development of
mind, soul and body. In short, the student who
may hope to reap the greater success must acquire
and hold to the qualifications that make the
gentleman,

Dr. Lingle would discount the habit of idleness
and waste of time and he particularly advised
against a custom that has become common in the
college life of today. He advised students not to
spend their time in “road-flagging and hitch-hik-
ing to the ends of the earth. That must be pleas-
ant and exciting, but the college can not mean
much to you if you are away from it most of the
time. Do not spend too much time in mere amuse-
ments, for all play and no work makes Jack a
duller boy. Do not spend your time loafing around
the drug stores, postoffice, or in some one else’s
room. If you do, you have not only succeeded in
wasting your time and the other student’s time,
but, incidentally, you will have succeeded in boring
a good many people during the year.”

Nor was the new president of Davidson un-
mindful of the perils of jazzism, He visualized
some students wasting time in going to dances and
other social functions, to neglect of study, and he
even saw some mixing whiskey in with the dances,
under belief that they were having -‘a good time,”
but he warned that in doing so, they were far
from getting the best out of the college. He is a
believer in college athletics, but holds that students
may go to excesses in that direction, as well as in
others. He would give athletics proper place in
college life, but he would not let games and con-
tests monopolize all the time of the students any
more than he weuld want to see their whole time
concentrated on Latin, Greek, mathematics or any
other one thing. The idea Dr. Lingle evidently
wanted to impress upon the minds of the students
is that they should be all-around good college boys,
in love with their studies, with a healthy amount
of recreation, but with a mind devoted to college
work and to utilization of time to the best advan-
tage. And it is a certain eventuality that the stu-
dent who takes the words of Dr. Lingle into serious
consideration and adopts his code as his own, will
leave the college doors benefited by the best the
college has had to give.

ALL TOGETHER

Saturday’s exodus to Independence Park
is a significant one, the interest centering in
the ability of Monk Younger’s Wildcats to
do battle with a team which is rated high
in. the. Southern Conference, a fact which
speaks for itself, Not “The Lady or the

Tiger?” this time but “The Tiger or the

Wildcat?” :

Davidson faces the same problem this
season which has troubled ‘her during the
greater part of ‘her gridiron history, namely
the necessity of throwing a light eleven
against a schedule which is not excelled by
any of the larger colleges. There is no ques-
tion as to the fact that Davidson must meet
teams of high rank, and incidentally, great
weight, if she is to continue in the first class
of intercollegiate competition. The great
hope is that each succeeding year will bring
better material to the coaching staff, and
that soon Davidson’s squads will be able to
give and take with an even chance of win-
ning.

However, one fact is constant. No David-
son team will ever take the field without the
undivided support, admiration, and inspira-
tion of the students in the stands and on the
sidelines. The fact that the spirit of the
Wildcat has been felt to the ends of the
earth is only added proof that Davidson men
back their teams to the limit. A victory has ,
been more glorious and a defeat more bear-
able because the spirit of sportsmanship has
been supreme in Wildcat athletics.

The game Saturday will be no exception
to the precedent of the years. Old men know
only too well what is expected of them—
they appreciate their debt to the college, and

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

One encouraging fact about the news game, even
though we are in the race for the world’s lowest paid
columnist, is that Edward Alger would never have
been able to write the story about the poor printer’s
devil who became ‘famous. Scripps and Howard both
began their careers by selling papers on the streets
of Cleveland. They weren’t even printer’s devils.
Today they own one of the greatest chain of news-
papers in the world. And they are both young men.
Don’t sell Davidson, The Davidsonian, or America
short!

How the mighty have fallen! “Boy King Michael”
of Roumania was recently sent home from school with
a note stating that he couldn’t behave. The days of
the “Prugelknaben” have gone. Even though royalty
cuts up, it must be punished for its own pranks. And
it occurs to us that we heard something about Sena-
tor Heflin’s son not so very long ago.

Speaking of those who have been somewhat deposed ;
it looks like Campus Football is in for a bad season.
The new Physical “Ed” class hit it a hard enough
blow, but it took something new to add the finish-
ing touches. Everybody’s yo-yoing now. If you are
socially, scholastically, athletically, ascetically, or her-
mitically inclined, there is one answer. Yo-yo!!!

Gaston county appears to be having its wars, re-
bellions, revolutions, et cetera. Communism sounds
good to those who have nothing to share with the
other fellow, but when it comes to splitting every-
thing one has with everyone else, the aspect changes.
The so-called “reds” success is doubtful, but it must
be admitted that a few of them are sharing their
meals together at the expense of the state. And here’s
betting that the coffee is weak and that the salt won’t
shake. Well, it might be the weather,

Col. Charles Augustus Lindbergh just absolutely
refuses to keep out of the limelight. Flitting hither and
yon, accompanied by his better half, he has at least
rid himself of the cognomen of “The Lone Eagle.”
We cannot help but wonder if that facet has any-
thing to do with the record-breaking trips which the
Colonel has been making of late. Maybe, he’s just
glad to be “down and out.”

It was recently announced that the somewhat notor-
ious Rothstein, gentleman of fortune, was killed over
a poker game. Some authorities maintain that the
brawl was over a comparatively small sum. Jerry, the
Greek, has not yet met his fate, but it would not
prove surprising if it would prove similar. Men, pro-
fessional leeches, who live entirely on the misfortunes
of the “poor sucker,” do not generally last long. The
worm will turn. wn

According to advice proffered O. O. McIntyre, a
columnist should prove genial, witty, resourceful, in-

| telligent and confidential. For tack of the other qual-

ities, it remains for us to divulge a few of our pet
desires. It has been and is our secret ambition to:

See the Chambers Maid slip on the “Alenda Lux
Ubi Orta Libertas” inscription.

Get a course in yo-yoing.

Find Joe Gardner’s study.

Beat Clemson, Saturday. i

Whip Army worse than Clemson.

See Richard Haliburton and Ripley get together.

Pet the Police Dog of one of the Professors.

Find some mail in the box every day.

Have somebody read this column.

And as for the others—well, you have no idea!

“Come on, Jake, let’s go to see Eddie Cantor
in ‘Whoopee’ tonight.”
~ “T don’t want to see him; replied Moe, a buy-
er from Scranton.

“Why not? He’s wary comical.”

“Nope, I don’t teenk so. I saw an imitation of
him last week and he’s terrible.”

—New York Evening Graphic.

Mother: “Will you please keep quiet, son? My
head is just about to split!”

Small Boy: “If I keep quiet can I see it split?”
—Life.

“Now there’s what I call a fine servant.”
“Yes, he’s been in our family for hours.”—Life.

Arch Optimist: “The movie fan who started
studying Swedish: because some day he hoped to
marry Greta Garbo.—Life.

will be out not only in person, but filled
with the co-operation and zeal which char-
acterizes the Davidsonian, To the freshman,
especially, is this appeal directed. Get start-
ed Saturday in the path of the Wildcat.
Never give up your hopes, faith, or admira-
tion for coaches and team. Let those men
feel that they are not going down under that
kickoff alone but that.in the beat of their
cleats upon the turf sounds also the victory
chorus of six hundred brothers.

t

Smokehousé Sago

By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

’

SPASM THE FIRST

Oy, oy, such a life! The editor of this filthy sheet
just caught me entirely unawares and demanded that
I forthwith get to work and rip off a couple of pages
‘of bull. It seems that the advertisements had given out .
and he just had to have something to fill up all of
that bare, snowy white space. Well, that explains, this.
I got even with, the editor, however. At ‘breakfast
this morning, I ate Grape Nuts and then played his
harmonica, thereby ruining the musical qualities of
the aforesaid instrument.

But now to get down to the main purpose of this
column—filling up space. It’s mighty hard to indulge
in any form of serious thought on this campus when
you've got to keep your eyes open for stray, runaway :

_ Yo-Yos. A census would reveal an average of no

less than three Yo-Yos ‘per square foot in the dormi-
tories, so it won’t be long before: warnings will be
posted such as “Danger ! Beware of the Yo-Yo. Do
not stick you head out of the window.” A Yo-Yo at
rest is a tame, servile, little pet, but once set into
motion, it becomes a beast of prey. The nights are
made horrible by the screams of the unfortunate vic-
tims who have been clonked on the conk by one (or
more) of these flying Juggernauts. Conditions are
rapidly becoming so bad that you can’t walk down the
stréet without being stopped by an addict who wants
to show you a new trick. This naturally necessitates
a wait while he fishes the little dickens out of a tree
and goes to look for some more string. This is your
cue to sneak off to safety. Doubtless, by Christmas,
all of the trees on our campus will be gaily decked
out with these many colored balls hanging from their
branches.. However, at best, a Yo-Yo this far out of
its native element is a pathetic spectacle indeed. This
fad would seem to indicate a sudden return to child-
hood, but—you’ll do it some day, so why not now?
At least it’s less destructive than yanking trolleys or
plugging door-bells.

What this column needs is bigger and better jokes.

Maybe a contest would bring in a few good ones.

Maybe—who knows? Anyway, I’ve decided to run a
little contest of my own. How would this work?

NOTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!

The editor of this column will present to the one
who turns in the best joke (or ‘other forms of space
filler) by Saturday night full rights and privileges
to all chewing gum found under seats 1 through 7
of row B in the left center’section of the new audi-
torium. In case of a tie, both of the winners will get
a separate row. Turn in your wheezes early and avoid
the rush. The line forms on the left.

= SECOND WORSE

Let’s open the meeting by yodelling that famous old
salt water ballad: “Never go around with another
man's wife unless you can go two rounds with her
husband.”

Or maybe you'd prefer that soul-stirring anthem:
“If you can’t make both ends meet, make one end
vegetable.”

Say, boss, where’s the India Rubber Man?
Oh, The Giant just made a sling: shot out of him.

She: Darling, whisper sweet nothings in my ear.
He: O. K., “Sweet nothings.”

With bystanders shouting, flagmen. waving,
horns honking and bells ringing, some engineers
still fail to stop and wait for an auto to pass.

Too Long a Wait
Usher: “How many, please?”
Exasperated- Person: “There were five of us but
three died.”—Life.

Her Best Friend (sweetly): “What, another
Paris gown, my dear? How-clever you are with
your needle !’’—Tid-Bits.

TO THE NEW MEN

“The Davidsonian” invites every new man
to exercise his talents as a news writer or
composer by lining up for work on the col-
lege newspaper. Previous experience in writ-
ing, while helpful, is not necessary, and the
chief factors in success are faithfulness and
concentrated effort. Every candidate, ‘enjoys
equal opportunity, and good work brings its
reward.

News writing is one of the most profitable
and, at the same time, interesting of the
campus activities. It is productive of keener
minds, deeper appreciation of surrounding
circumstances, and a real sense of responsi-
bility in presenting facts in their true light.
It is an excellent parallel work for regular
college studies, since its execution demands
— and development of varied expres-

New men desiring to align themselves with
“The Davidsonian” will please see me at my
room, No. 17 Georgia.

ZEB. V. LONG, Editor.

