>

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

—
—

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for te pg must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m., Monday. Anonymous
articles will not be published.

ZEB _ V. LONG, Jr
H. McCALL

Editor-in-Chief
iness Manager

is}

EDITORIAL STAFF

J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN( 22.22 .200022.2cc ceeds Managing Editor
Ss. S. LEY. % -Managing Editor
P, R. ALDERMAN.. i Athletic Editor
Witt Gr RAGUNNgbwatsus lcd cevssiicdicwalcceseee Feature Editor
J. F. PRESTON as Feature Editor
i L. BROWN. Assistant Editor
SST ERO waco ccckbecususauce: csauiiere Associate Editor
PB EYED" 00.0) 61 - Tat enna ee Semen Re -Associate Editor
Cc. M. PRA A iate Editor

Asst. Bus. Mgr.
--Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Scbhohaductnucecue Subscription Mgr.
a--2------------.-.-......4_Solicitor

Solicitor
send nusses sn nnkua Solicitor
Solicitor
-Solicitor

| ORUBFRG or cs

Di HBBVIBRS ui jebscsoscciciscGetae esse x.

Poenack oct Solicitor

Wi. CURAGING cocci Viserprestaent
Sow ew enw en nme cwenen cc wcccecnsucccn ce-Fresi t
}: uF Bubae DLETON sccsubuaauseds Secretary-Treasurer
( a Ate C. G. PEPPER
iB x HEWS . G. DUNKLIN
. G. MARTIN W S. LEA
J. R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER
D, G. STEPHENSON W. T, HANCOCK
Py He Noatoeee JOHN M. BROWN
N. B, DICKS cB TOMEING OY

SS
OCTOBER 3, 1929
="
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Congratulations every man who played in the

Clemson game for an unexcelled display of
courage.

—Picks Captain Thad Brock as Davidson's first
all-state candidate.

—Wants revenge on Wofford’s Terriers for last
year's beating.

—Urges every student to be at Spartanburg fight-
ing as hard as his team is.

—Believes that the co-operative plan of chapel
conduction will bring about a fine spirit.

~-Advises all new men to get lined up for some
definite college activity.

—Congratulates the fraternity pledges and wishes
them every happiness.

WANTED—CONSIDERATION

It has been no secret to those in authority
that the last two or three years have
brought about a distinct trend away from
advertising in college annuals and news-
papers. By far the worst sufferer has been

the average college newspaper, which plays
such a vital part in the life of every student
body, and is so truly a part of the college or-
ganization.

Merchants’ associations advance the idea
that college advertising is of little or no
value to their business, that the returns are
practically negligible. Furthermore they
claim that due to the number of schools con-
stantly dogging their trail, it becomes a
nuisance and a practical impossibility to
give advertising to these many seekers.
There is little doybt that much is to be said
in favor of a policy which protects the mer-
chant from undue expense in advertising,
but just as in the courts of law, sometimes
the great law of circumstance triumphs
over written statutes, so in the matter at
hand circumstances play a large part.

It has long been Charlotte's claim, and we
are led to believe from glowing speeches dnd
hearty backslaps by prominent residents of
the Queen City that the claim is a proud one,
that Davidson is Charlotte’s own. To read
feature articles in Charlotte newspapers, or
to read Charlotte. writers when something

- big happens at Davidson, one would gather
that the college lies well within the city
limits of the Mecklenburg capital. This
spirit grows on Davidson boys until some
of them not acquainted with the job of get-
ting out a paper actually believe that any-
thing Davidson needs in Charlotte is hers
for the asking. To knock the whole dream in
a cocked hat, along comes the Charlotte
Merchants’ Association with the declaration
that no more may college solicitors look to
Charlotte, firms for aid. The situation has
‘become rather desperate, not only with
4 llega ws sheet but with most college
ipers. We:

e speaking as much for Queens
i neighboring.schools as for

"Ry

|
|

Thousands of dollars pour into the coffers
of Charlotte firms every year from the
pockets of college boys and girls who come
of necessity and for pleasure..To give a con-
crete example—a week ago Davidson played
one of her big football games in Charlotte.
Some five hundred boys and countless other
supporters went to the city at a minimum
expense of three dollars apiece. Bus fare and
meals alone make three dollars a conserva-
tive estimate, while countless dollars were
added to the total for amusements, shop-
ping and other reasons. There are many
such days for every Davidson man, and a
reasonable estimate is that four hundred
Davidson men visit Charlotte every week.
Imagine the multiplied dollars this regular
occurence means to the business of the city.

Several Charlotte firms come to David-
son often to display their goods, and a
steady undercurrent of feeling against
these firms is being noted because of the
faét that, while soliciting Davidson trade
and professing to be in hearty accord with
the’ needs of the’ institution, these same
firms refuse to advertise, and thereby give
life to college publications. It is a case of
Charlotte merchants sitting in a forced posi-
tion of power, wielding an unfair sceptre
over the college round-about.

We are not criticizing Charlotte alone,
but associations everywhere which have
sounded the knell of college advertising are
roundly scored. They tell us that goodwill
and fair play is the keynote of all business,
and if this-axiom is in any wise worthwhile,
then it seems to us that the merchants are
due to wake up and come out of their shell

of business conceit. Especially is this true~
wwhen the circumstances are forced, as in the

case of Davidson, Queens and other nearby
schools. The merchants are well aware of
the fact that they will get the trade of
necessity on the student’s part. It seems
that the only way to appeal to them is to
present an ideal of real interest and less
talk about “our”‘schools.

Not being well versed in the workings of
merchants’ associations, we cannot offer a
positive cure for the evil which threatens to
stamp out morst college newspapers. How-
ver, why not consider a proposition like
this? Let Charlotte agree to give advertis-
ing to schools within a limited area, and if
necessary let an accredited list of schools be
prepared. Let Greensboro and Raleigh take
care of schools in their immediate territory,
and so on through the state. The burden
would not be great on any one group, and
the situation in the colleges would be in-
finitely better, both in. practical and ideal
measures. Certainly, more consideration is
due the schools which pour out their support
daily to the business of the city. Certainly
any measure of fairness calls for a revision
of the present plan.

LYING SIGN-BOARDS

The following article is an excerpt from the
Washington and Lee Bulletin. It is exceedingly
helpful and should be taken to heart:

9

The proverbs or maxims of a people generally
represent the wisdom of long experience. They
are sign-boards on life’s great highway erected
by former generations, and most travelers accept
their guidance without question. As a false sign
on a crowded roadway may lead multitudes astray,

sO an untrue maxim, especially when circulating
among the young and inexperienced, may turn
countless lives into dangerous or- fatal paths.
“Every young man must sow his wild oats,” “All’s
fair in love and war,” “Every man has his price,”
are examples of such lying proverbs.

Our boys and girls, inexperienced travelers on
the new road, are misled. by current fallacies and
false traditions, especially if the falsehood is
sugar-coated with a little truth and its acceptance
furnishes a ready excuse for laziness or miscon-
duct.

To this doubly dangerous class belongs the oft
repeated and widely believed statement that the
boy who leads his class in school is generally a
failure in after life.

To the lazy and self indulgent, to social dudes |

and tin-horn sports and overgrown children, to
all who long to study less and play more, this
theory is as fascinating as poisoned candy in a
kindergarten. It-not only excuses neglect of duty,
but crowns the loafer as a man of far-seeing wis-
dom.

The truth is that those who outstrip-their-indo-
lent or brainless competitors in school or college,

continue to do so when school days are over.

_ The next time, therefore, the silly falsehood that
star’students generall) fail in’ business threatens
to become epidemic on your campus, kindly arrest
the spread of the contagion.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

One thing which is a continual worry to unfor-
tunate columnists is, How many readers of the
“paper pay more than a casual glance to the humble
“ramble”? Various estimates have been made by
statisticians. It is practically agreed that the per-
centage of those subscribers, who do not read the
column, does not exceed that epic figure, 99 44-100
per cent. Still, one is hardly expected to “Walk
a Mile” to read one. Perhaps an effective way
to test this mythical number would be to run the
identical copy two weeks in succession and hope-
filly wait for the storms of protest.

Floods and storms rage through far southern
states, while people either flee or try to place bar-
riers before the rushing waters. Times have
changed! (Have they? Maybe.) Flood refugees
can no longer float about in arks until the waters
abate. It is undoubtedly terrible when mighty
rivers break their banks, but in ancient times the
lives of millions of people depended on the season-
al overflow and the rich silt which it deposited.
Once the Nile did not overflow for seven years.
Famine!

Borger, Texas oil town, is making a great at-
tempt to imitate that Abdullah’s (it might be
Adullam) den of the middle west, Chicago. The
town is on a boom, boom-boom in fact. An un-
derworld gang, which indicates major propor-
tions, has been uncovered. Stabbings, free-for-alls,
burglaries, and pillages follow in close sequence.
One cannot refrain from wondering if a second
“Massacre of St. Bartholomew’s Eve” is in a
phantom form. Yet all the cruelty and ingenuious
torture of the Medicis can hardly compare to the
systematic slaughter of today.

Gréat comment has been caused, concerning
Premier McDonald’s tentative visit to this coun-
try. It \is our personal opinion, if we are capable

.of having one, that nothing startling will result.

The English diplomats are too brilliant to trans-
act any important’ business of state, away from
their native country, and the English press is too
scathing to permit it.

In fact, the probable sequence of events follow: °

Mayor Walker proffers Premier McDonald the
keys of New York City, in jade green pajamas,
i.e, the Mayor, not the keys nor the City. Next
in order, the British Official is at the throttle of
the Capitol Limited, while ambassadors-plenipo-
tentiary gambol in his private car. President
Hoover greets him, the Boy Scouts of America
present him with the totem pole of Chief Sit-on-
the Ground. The Senate and Congress present him
with the best resolutions of respect, of which they
are capable. He sails from New York Harbor, with
strands of confetti waving from his neck. The
Senate appoints a committee to investigate the re-
port that he has carried three new crusiers- and
four super-dreadnaughts back with him.

It seems a pity that most newspapers persist in
giving as much publicity to airplane accidents as

they do. To read the daily sheet one would believe

that fully fifty per cent or more of those who
ascend to the air in ships return only by the
gravity method: Few stop to think how many
lives are lost in automobile collisions and grade
crossing accidents, This is a constructive age.
That which is new is too often frowned upon. To
quote Emerson, “A foolish consistency is the hob-
goblin of little minds.” The general’ public con-
demned the first steam engine which traveled at
the dangerous speeed of twelve miles per hour.

Cuts happened to be the main topic of a bull-
‘session the other night. One student inquired,
“How is ----- ? Does he cut his classes often?”
Without a moment’s hesitation another replied,
“No, he’s an Old Faithful guy-sir.”

We had one slight misgiving at the game the
other day. After waiting for the teams to take the
field, and watching the motor-cops go round and
round like a yo-yo, we were nearly convinced that
a six-day motorcycle race was in progress. Faster,
please!

Professor: “Any questions?”
Voice: “Yes; what course is this?”—Gargoyle.

In Chicago
When thrown out of a cabaret be nonchalant—
light a bomb.—Gargoyle.

“What's the matter”?

“My brother slept on my pipe last night.”
“That’s nothing.” |
“But it was my windpipe.”

Teacher : “Willie, can you tell me how matches
are made?” ;

Willie: “No, mam, -but I don’t blathe you for
wanting to know.”

‘Teacher: “Why, what do you mean?”

Willie: ‘Mother says you've been trying
make one for ten years. |. ‘

!

to

!

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

When there are gray skies—you’re at Davidson.
Without a doubt, the theme song of this campus
is “I get the flu when it rains.” Oh well, there’s
really no us¢ to worry about the weather until
water-lilies begin to sprout in such secluded: nooks
as the famous Chinaberry Tree of story and song.
Instead of kicking about all of this dampness, try
to’ find some good in it. Just remember, it only
rained forty days for such an outstanding character
as Noah, who was doubtless a prince of a chap.
Therefore, we're already in a class by ourselves.
However, I would like to know one thing—where’s
the man who used to pray for rain?

I’m afraid that this little drizzle is going to hurt
the trade at the Student’s Store if it continues much
longer. The students (if any) will come to realize
that there’s no practical value in spending their
nickles and dimes to get a swimming pool. (See
the manager of the store to find out the date when
construction on the pool will start.) Why have a
pool when you have to fight swirling torrents of
H20 plus good ole red MUD every time, you leave
a building? Speaking of mud, have you noticed the
broad, simpering grins on the faces of our friends
and comrades—the pressing club agents? They are
truly sitting on top of the swirl.

You certainly can’t accuse anyone of being a
fair weather friend, that’s one cinch, Well, I'd
better cease this idle chatter before I run the rain
idea in the ground. Head for the hills, boys, the
levee’s done busted!

3 POETS’ CORNER
The following is an excellent bit of modernistic
verse which was found on a piece of paper used
to chink a hole in the walls of Rumple:
Mary had
a litt
le lam
b,
It’s fleece was whi
te as sno
W,
A
n
d
every place that Mar
y went, the lamb w
as sure to
&
fe)
e

Say, buddy, where’s Budweiser?
Oh, it’s near beer.

One reason whiy a girl looks better in profile is
because you can’t see that the bloom of youth is
higher on one cheek than on the other.

“Take away women, and what woud follow?”
screamed the orator. ;
“Me,” yelled a man down in the audience.

He: “What’s the difference between a taxi and
a street car?”

She: “I don’t know.”

He: “Fine! Then we'll ride home on the street
car.”

“I just can’t go through with this,” cried the
honest little girl with a penny in her hands at the
subway turnstile.

Lass: “Oh, you are just too slow.”
Lad: “I’m afraid I don’t grasp you.”
Lass: “Yes, that’s just it.”

First Burglar: “Go on, git out! I'm working dis
floor.” :

Second Thief: “Bunk! Dis is my story and I'll
stick to it.”

Then there was the Scotch regiment which de-
serted when the commander ordered them to give
way to the right. (Editor’s note: pardon this, .but
it’s getting late.)

I call my girl “Someplace Else,” because she
isn’t all there.

Editor’s Note

It will be the policy of The Davidsonian to
welcome all original work to its columns.
We believe that there are a great many
writers in the student body who have never
come to light, and we are sure that the
freshman class holds men who will he able
to write entertaingly on subjects of their own
choosing. Any men te write columns
at regular intervals, simply on occasion,
are urged to see the editor and talk matters
over. It is never too late for new men to
pr mica ideo! ties thing epee
early start is very obvious. Report once.

ZEB. V. LONG, JR., Editor.

paps
