THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

Collegiate
Comment

oo

rPpAtTuonreé §

eo

On This
and That

Music
By

Horace W. Erwin

The man that hath no music in himeelf

Nor is not moved with concord of sweet
sounds,

Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.

—Merchant of Venice. Act V. Sc. 1

Music is one of the most ancient of the
arts. Indication of this comes to us by
Assyrian and Egyptian base reliefs and
wall paintings which have been exhumed
with the remains of:the ancient cities,
and upon whith are numerous musical
representations. The Assyrians were a
bellicose people, and instruments ‘of per-
cussion were put to frequent use in their
warfare. The wind instrument was pres-
ent with them in the form of a military
trumpet. The Egyptians before 3000 B. C.
had a science of music. which they asso-
ciated to some extent with religion and
astronomy,

It was there from whom the Greeks
got their music. Here the art was given
a very important place in the educational
system; the study of music was made
requisite in schools. Later on, and further
west, music became an important part of
the rites of the early church, which it has
continued to do to the present day. But
one note could be played or sung at a
time, for there was no knowledge of har-

mony. Polophony had not yet been in-
troduced,

Through the ages music evolved with
civilization. With the passing of time its
use was not confined to the church but
was secularized and brought down to the
masses, And hereupon music became in-
spirited with the life of the people. The
discovery of harmonizing voices and musi-

cal combinations developed, and poly-

_phonic arrangements supplanted the mon-

otonistic chant of the mediaeval church.

Even today music is not at a stand-
still, but is in a stage of development.
Who can say what, if anything, will re-
place the modern symphony orchestra
in years to come? Certain it is that
musical form will change, and new schools
will be introduced. However harsh and
discordant productions of the ultra-mod-
ern school may seem to us now, our de-
scendants may find them pleasing to ear.
To illustrate this concretely, let us refer
to Haydn’s Oratorio “Creation,” com-
posed in the seventeenth century. The
opening of this work depicts the void and
formless earth before creation by dis-
sonant chords, It was very jarring to the
ears of the concert-goers of Haydn’s day.
But now in the twentieth century we con-
sider that a very mild and conservative
representation of chaos.

And so music is passing through an ex-
perimental stage of a ;great metamor-
Phosis. What, then, can be in the in-
trinsic makeup of such an art to so at-
tract men and command their constant in-
terest? For one thing, music has beauty.
Deeper yet, it portrays emotion. The
works of the romanticists of the nine-
teenth century are brimming with joy,
horrow, love, hate, rage, compassion. But
more than that, music is personal. Anyone
can carry a melody in his head. We see
a boy down the street whistling to him-
self, a cook in the kitchen humming, a
musician alone with his instrument play-
ing. Music appeals to the individaul.

The fact that it is enjoyed so much even
when one is alone and that it “sticks”
accounts much for its catholicity. One
musically inclined does not always require
the presence of an orchestra or an in-
strument. He can play the molody in his
on mind.

The music in my heart I bore
Long after it was heard no more.

Because of this, the art becomes one of
the finer things of life, and something of
the soul, as Dr. Lingle mentioned in chap-
el one morning.

If, then, music is so universally popular
and is so satisfying, the need for appre-
ciation of it ought to be great. Good music
should be appreéiated as much as good
literature. If it is not, itis because people
of cultivable tastes have not been intro-
duced into its grandeur. And superficial
inquiry into music yields but superficial

HOW TO LIVE LONGER|

If you want to prolong your life, be
a college professor. If you want to in-
crease the chances of long life, be a col-
lege professor in a small, quiet commun-
ity. And the earlier in life you go about
it, the better chances are.

These are the conclusions of research-
ers of the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teachers, as contained
in the annual report. The researchers
ought to know—they have the data, com-
piled while’ the Foundation has been
paying out more than seventeen million
dollars in pensions and retiring allow-
ances, during twenty-three years. Mainly,
the conclusions came from study of 358
retiring allowance beneficiaries.

The theory is that college professors
live placid lives, made still more placid
by residence in small, quiet communities.
If they possess intellectual superiority, it
is evidenced at an early age and is as-
sociated with: physical superiority, So
they are able to command their reactions
to events and conditions that would be
excitations to other persons, less com-
posed by reason of their exposure to the
hurlyburly of life.

Moreover, the college professor is ad-
vantaged by the pedagogical attitude. As
his years mount, more and more he gains
in regard for his own authority in his
special field, and that, too, makes for
composure and placidity. His only disad-
vantage lies in a tendency—which he may
counteract—to extend pedagogical finality
to his attitude toward life in general. Con-
trol, however, may go with placidity; and
philosophical reaction to all the issues of
society may be made a factor in his
psychosis, with the consequent growth of
placidity, and hence prolongation of life.

It is this placidity, this philosophical
outlook, perhaps, that makes professors
more lovable as their years increase and
their students return in spirit to com-
mune with them. And this researcher’s
notation on the fruits of placidity might
be worth contemplation by those of us
who did not adopt the professional call-
ing.—Exchange.

ALPHA OMEGA GETS
TWO MORE PLEDGES

Since Bid Day, October 1, two Fresh-
men have accepted bids extended to them
by Alpha Omega social fraternity. They
the: R. W. Gwyn and W. B. Gwyn, of
North Wilkesboro, N. C.

Through an error of the printer the
name of D. M. Bermard, of Jacksonville,
Fla., pledged to Kappa Alpha was omit-
ted from the last edition of the Davidson-
ian,

pleasure. On the other hand, one probing
the depths of good music will be abun-
dantly recompensed,

A graduate of a classical college with
no apreciation of the fineness of music
has not completed his education. If he can
sit enjoyably through a Shakespearian
tragedy or comedy but cannot hold his
patience at a musicale, his appreciation of
art has not been fully developed. One
might well deplore the comparatively
scanty recognition given to an art so
pleasure-yielding as music.

The course in History and Appreciation
of Music, taught by Prof. Cullum, willil
prove invaluable to willing students. Its
aim is to serve the students who feel the
need of a cultural understanding of music,
and the ability to listen intelligently to
the work of the masters. Such organiza-
tions as the Glee Club, the Band, and the
Symphony Orchestra are excellent stim-
ulants to musical activity, and the new
honorary musical fraternity, Mu Beta
Psi, ought to awaken keen interest in
musical enterprises.

Mu Beta Psi has further plans of set-
ting asidea room in which will be placed
a piano and an orthophonic victrola hav-
ing solo and symphonic recordings. These
will be accessible to not only members of
the fraternity, for Mu Beta Psi has gen-
erously extended the room’s use to all
students of musical likings. Recitals and
concerts will be sponsored also.

With so much of music on the campus,
there will be ample opportunity for any-
one to cultivate whatever inclination to-
ward good music he may have and to de-
velop an appreciable understanding of it.

Current Comment

By
John L. Brown

There seems to be no danger of New
York losing her supremacy in high build-
ings. Of the 377 buildings in the United
States over 20 stories high, 188 are in
New York. For 16 years the Woolworth
building has held its title of highest build-
ing in the world, but soon the Chrysler
building will tower above it. This new
building will be 809 feet high, as com-
pared with Woolworth’s 792, and will rise
68 stories above the sidewalks of New
York. But the Chrysler building will not
hold its title for long, for the Bank of
Manhattan building will soon be erected
to the height of 836 feet, thus giving it
the title of loftiest building in the world.

Here’s the last word in Scotchmen.
U. S. Representative Somers, of New
York recently received a letter from
one of his supporters asking him to
have a bill passed for the use of half
pennies. Cakes sold 2 for 5c, or 31-2c
each, he said, so he wantd-half pennies
so he can buy them for 21-2c each.

The annual fire loss of the United States
amounts to approximately $90,000,000 due
to carelessness of cigarette smokers.
Scientists have consequently been mak-

ing researches to find a self-extinguish-
ing. cigarette. They have now devised a
cigarette with a one-inch cork tip treated
so as to be fire proof. When thrown away
it extinguishes itself so quickly that the
fire hazard is reduced 90 per. cent. If
smokers would: use these cigarettes and
increase their carefulness 10 per cent,
the fire hazard would be reduced to prac-
tically zero.

Another proof of electricity in a
cat’s fur was shown last week at
Grand Rapids, Mich: A stray cat was
put in with the dogs at the city dog
pound to receive the death sentence,
and after the manner of cats arched
its back and ruffled its fur. When the
lethal gas was turned on, there was an
explosion caused by electric sparks.

We may soon have radios by General
Motors, along with its various makes of
automobiles, refrigerators, ete. The new
Cadillacs have an aerial in their bodies,
and for $150 extra are equipped with a
Delco-Remy receiving set.

The National City Bank of New
York recently became the biggest in
the world, nosing out London’s Mid-
land Bank, Ltd., by a bare 83 million
dollars. Its merger with the Corn Ex-
change Bank and Trust Co., swelled
its resources to $2,386,066,401.

Feature Page

Beginning with this issue, page
seven will be known as the feature

page of The Davidsonian, In its
columns will appear articles on
varied subjects, original student
contributions, interesting facts about
the colleges of the land, poetry,
sport comment, drama, art, and a
Portion of humor. In short, it is the
intention of the staff to make this
page one of the most interesting
pages of the whole paper. Any
member of the student body is in-
vited to contribute his ideas, and it
is hoped that the feature page will
come to be considered the students’
own.

Policeman: “What's
you lose something?”

the matter, did
Drunk: “Shure, lost a quarter.”
Policeman: “Where did you lose it?”
Drunk: “S’back there some place.”
Policeman: “Then why are you looking

under this street light?”

Drunk: “Cause the lightsh’r better
here.”
Miss Jones: “What do you think of

Shakespeare's plays?”
Freshman Sweatt: “What team does he

play on?”

TO FLAVOR A MOMENT
OR MARK A THOUGHT—

HAVE A

\ AMEL

Let Camels accent your little intervals between

this and that

Thoughts requiring pleasant

punctuation g moods asking for emphasis

things accomplished which merit a bit of

jubilee
flavor them with pleasure

day’s activity takes a twist

have a Camel!

couple these with Camels

and

Each time your

or a turn

Camel brings you an extra measure of pleasure . . . simply
because it is a better cigarette. The choicest tobaccos
grown are blended with expert care . . . into a mellow-mild
smoke . . . cool and refreshing . . . which never tires your
taste nor leaves an unpleasant after-taste.

© 1929, be: J. Reynelds Toheces
