THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1929

Seven Wildcats Finish
Careers As Gridmen In
Thanksgiving Day Game

Veterans Star to Defeat Duke Blue
Devils

1930 PROSPECT BRIGHT

Four Linemen and Three Backfield
Men Play Football for Last Time

When the Davidson Wildcats took the
field Thanksgiving Day against the Duke
University Blue Devils four.men in the
starting lineup played their last game as
Wildcats, and three others were await-
ing substitution. DeCamp, guard, Baker,
tackle, and Brohard and Parrish, half-
backs, were the men who started the
game. On the bench were threé other
Seniors, Mills, guard; Hewlett, quarter-
back, and Warren, center.

DeCamp is one, of the most consistent
guards in the State and starred in the
Duke clash, He has starred in every game
this year, and has handled his position in
fine style.

L. B. Parrish, the redheaded flash of
the backfield, has been one of the main
cogs in the Davidson offense. It was he
who ran through the entire Carolina team
for,the Wildcats’ only score of the Home-
coming battle. Brohard has been out most
of the year with an injury he received in
the Clemson game, but his comeback
Saturday against the Tar Heels boded ho
good for Duke University. A. W. “Borneo”
Baker, captain of the 1928 football team
has been one of the most consistent tack-
lers on the eleven this fall. He played
perhaps his greatest game Thursday.

Mills has seen service as a relief guard
‘often this season, except for a period
when he was hurt. When Coach Younger
needed somebody to bolster up the cen-
ter of the forward wall and the spirit of
the whole team, he sent in Mills. Warren
and Hewlett have seen intermittent serv-
ice in the Wildcat clashes.

Although the loss of these men will be
felt next year, the prospect for Davidson's
team in 1930 are brighter than for the
past three years. Losing only three reg-
ulars in most of the starting lineups this
fall will look much brighter than usual,
and will give the Wildcats almost the same
team in 1930. A strong freshman squad
will be affording competition for every
position, and some of the yearlings appear
as if they might displace the regulars,

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM

(Continued from Page 1)
complete your careers at Davidson?” He

declared that football was only a “court to
the outer stadium of life”? and urged the
students to enter that larger stadium and
win some of the greater contests. He sug-
gested that keeness of vision, courage of
heart, and purity of soul were requisites to
winning superb prizes, victories and triumphs.

He narrowed his remarks still further by
elaborating upon the contest of business and
the contést of government. He cited the need

for a superior type of business man, and be-

moaned the many flagrant violations of trusts
nowadays. In touching upon government, he
plead with the Davidson boys to put on the
“uniform of royal citizenship,” in this con-
test.

At the beginning of the meeting a welcome
was extended the Davidson visitors by H. B.
Deaton, editor of The Mooresville Enter-
prise. At the conclusion of the main address
many individuals were called upon, The re-
sponses wer¢ both witty and serious.

KUESTER ADDRESSES

(Continued from Page 1)

Mr: Kuester talked to his hearers for a
few minutes upon the possibilities of the
Chamber of Commerce field, and cited the
requisities of a secretary. Among other
things he maintained that the outstanding
needs. of a successful executive of such a
body was vision, ambition, and determination,
and he urged the Davidson students to enter
this professional field if they were so inclined.

Tuberculosis Seal
Drive Begins Soon

Great Work Done by Sales
Committe in Past

“Sic juvat transcendere mon-
tes!” This might well be the.
motto of the Christmas Seals
Committee, for in truth it is
striving to overcome moun-
tains as difficult as those con-
quered by the Knights of the
Golden Horseshoe, Here are some of the
things the committee has accomplished.
Last winter nine children were supplied
with milk at school; one woman was fit-
ted out and sent to the Mecklenburg
County Sanatorium; another was supplied
with medicine; Dr. Lee and his nurses
held tubercular clinics for both the white
and colored children; scales were pur-
chased for the Dr. Hand has
treated a number of different cases sent
to him; Dr. Miller operated eight or nine
times on the little colored girl sent to
him and kept her at the Orthopedic Hos-
pital three or four months free of charge.
She still goes back to him at stated in-
tervals. These things are just a beginning,
are but the foothills; the mountains lie
ahead. Must the work shall it
push to greater conquests? Buy some
seals, as many as you can, a dollar’s worth
or a dime’s worth, but do your bit. Help
us to conquer the mountains!

school;

stop or

Signed:
Sales Committee.

PHI BETA KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)

present are Dr. Wilson McConnell, Presi-
dent, and Dr. K. J. Foreman, Secretary.

Initiation of the new members will take
place at 7:00 p. m., on the date stated above.
This part of the ceremony will, of course,
be private. New member to be initiated in-
clude four students of the class of 1930: A.
T. Edelman, Goldsboro, N. C., J. B. Knox,
Liberty, S. C., FE. E. Marsh, Mashville, N.
C., and F. R. Brown, Greensboro, N. C, All
these men are candidates for the Bachelor
of Arts degree. Also four alumni will be
initiated. These men, all members of the
class of 1915, are: Prof. G. W. Gignilliat,
Jr, Dr. U. S. Alexander, Rev.
Johnson, and Rey. Frank Price.

Norman

Professor Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C., is pro-
fessor of English at Presbyterian College,
Clinton, S. C. He is no won leave of absence
for study and research. Doctor Alexander is
a resident of Charlotte, N. C. He is an
attorney at law and received his Ph.D. from
Coltiinbia University. Reverend Johnson is
pastor of the college church of Virginia
Polytechnic Institute at Blacksburg, Va.
Reverend Price is Davidson's representative
in China and although he is now on furlough,
studying at Yale, and has been elected to
membership of this order, it will be impos-
sible for him to be present for the initia-
tion. He will, however, be initiated later in
the year.

At 8:00 p m. an address will be delivered

to the initiates by Dr. W. J. McGlothlin. |

This address will be open to the public and
all are cordially invited to attend. Doctor
McGlothlin is President of Furman Univer-
sity, Greenville, S. C. Although a Tennes-
seean he is a member of the South Carolina
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. He received an
LL.D. degree from Wake Forest, Furman
and Baylor and a Ph.D. from the University
of Berlin. He is author of numerous books
in English and German, including articles
in the well known “Dictionary of Religion
and Ethics.” His social fraternity is Phi
Gamma Delta.

A banquet will be held at 9:00 p. m. in
the new banquet hall of Chambers building.
This will be given for members_and guests.

Sophomore: “Teachers are worse than
immigration authorities at Ellis Island
nowadays.”

Alumnus: “How come?”

Sophomore: “They’ve swiped the slo-
gan, “They shall not pass.’ ”—Ex.

rs

Vespers—Sunday

Professor K. J. Foreman will be
the speaker at “Y” Vespers Sunday.
Subject, “Moral Blind-Spots.” This
is the first time he has spoken
at Vespers for more than a year,
but, as older students will recall, he
has delivered two of the most mem-
orable addresses in the history of
Vesper services here. He is very
popular among the students of all
classes, and all are looking forward
to an interesting and inspiring talk.

+

Rifle Team Starts
Work For Matches

Be
ne of

Last year’s rifle team, which won over
half of its matches, together with a num-
ber of promising freshmen has been re-
organized for the 1929-1930 season. Its
members have entered the contest for the
Davidson marksmanship trophy and have

started training in expectation of an-

other successful season. They have ar-
ranged for correspendence matches with
about seventy-five schools, representing
states, the Philippines, Porto
Hawaii. Shoulder to shoulder
several of which will be shot
here, have also been planned with V. M.I.
V. P.-L, N. C. State, and Clemson.

forty-six
Rica, and
matches,

There will be two rifle contests of out-
standing local interest; one for the Da-
vidson trophy, an engraved silver shield
on a plaque; and the other between a
local girls’ team and the leading fresh-

The reward in the latter
contest will be a bountebus dinner for the

men riflemen.
winners, to be eaten opposite the losers
will fed and cornbread.
Captain Elkins is coaching the girls’ team
and offering the prize. Leonora Elkins is
captain of her group.

who be beans

The trophy contest started last week
and will close before Christmas. One posi-
tion will be shot off each week. The con-

test shooting from the prone position has
been completed. This contest was open
to all taking R. O. T. C., and from those
entered, the twenty-five making the high-

est scores will be chosen for the rifle
team.

The varsity members who are back this
year are C. P. Greyer, captain; J. L.

Brock, manager; C. E. Kraemer; W.
Rule; E. S. Bettis; E. S. Brannon; D. G.
Calder; J. G. Hughes, and R. D. Russell.

Grid Rarities: A 71-yard punt and a run
of 102 yards by the same man in the same
game.

STOP
that
COLD and COUGH

take

o1dex

fhe “QUICK RELIEF" Cold Remedy fee
College Students, sold bya Colles: Student

YOUR VW RUGGISI | Jim Galloway
HAS COLDEX U. of 8.C..

Winning the war against weather.

In the telephone business, research man,
manufacturing engineer and construction
supervisor are carrying on a_ successful
war against the unruly elements, enemies

to service.

Cable, for example, housing many cir-
cuits and covered with protective coatings

might seriously

tensive as well

development.

BELL SYSTEM

of proved strength, withstands storms which

threaten open wire lines.

Thus in the Bell System growth is in-

as extensive, improving

present facilities as’ well as adding new
ones. And there is no end to all this

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST

BEGUN”.
