THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

‘

Kim’s Kolumn |

“MULE” HAAS, WORLD SERIES
HERO?

The rolling tumult of the 1929 world’s ser-
ies has died away in the distance; the last
hoarse shout of the current baseball season
blends with the soft falling of Autumnal
leaves and new names have been added to
that long list of diamond immortals who*have
achieved the proudest fame that the game can
bestow—that of world’s series heroes.

This year’s classic proved to be a great
show, a moving drama, in which interest
was most intense from the beginning of the
first act at Wrigley Field to‘the final curtain
at Shibe Park. And the show did not fail
to provide its stars, players who strolled
across the stage just beyond the footlights,
while the rest of the cast lingered in the
background.

Unfortunately the Cubs failed to play up
to advance predictions—they were outsmart-
ed, apparently outclassed and failed to take
advantage of the “breaks.” Perhaps they
were in a slump; perhaps Lady Luck deserted
them at crucial moments ; certainly the super-
ior all-round play of the Athletics was en-
tirely too obvious.

Rarely if ever, do players of a “loser” merit
much consideration in the final choice of the
series hero. Too often the ominous shadow
of defeat. eclipses the stellar play of some
aspiring luminary. But the Cubs, though
victims of the Mack Juggernaut four games
to one, can point with just pride to three
bright spots in an otherwise drab exhibition
of team play. The sterling pitching of Guy
Bush in the third game which resulted in
his team’s only victory; the masterful. twirl-
ing of Pat Malone in the final encounter
which ordinarily would have won any ball!
game; and the brilliant hitting and fielding
of Captain Charlie Grimm at first base will
be recorded in baseball annals as the high-
lights of the series from a National League
standpoint.

Rogers Hornsby, of whom so much was
expected, proved a huge “flop.” Hazen Cuy-
ler and Riggs Stephenson starred at times
but their hitting was inconsistent. Hack
Wilson, final member of the much heralded
“Murderers Row,” made an early bid for
fame but was the unlucky victim of circum-

several brilliant fielding plays that robbed
opposing batsmen of seemingly extra base
bingle. His two base overthrow of a ground
ball in the first game allowed the Cubs to
score a run and robbed Ehmke of a shutout,
BUT his timely and consistent hitting in the
pinches more than offset this momentary
fielding lapse.

Lefty Grove introduced his terrifice “fire
ball” to the National Leaguers on several
different occasions. And the old adage: “You
can’t hit 'em when you can’t see ’em” was
never more applicable than when Grove
was on the mound. Called to the hurling slab
only to relieve some faltering mate Grove
quickly quelled any semblance of a rally that
the Cub may have premeditated.

The spirit of an Athletic idol of the dim
and distant past went into this world’s series
in the guise of young Jimmie Foxx. It was
the spirit of “Home Run” Baker whose slug-
ging was one of the wonders of the sport
prior to the era of Babe Ruth. Five years
age Baker sent Foxx, then a youngster of
sixteen, to his old boss saying: “Take him,
Connie. Some day he’ll ge a greater hitter
than I ever was.” So far Foxx has lived up
to Baker’s predictions. Many experts even
go so far as to say that in two more years
he will be universally regarded as the great-
est player that ever lived. Fandom expected
much of Foxx in this series, too much in fact
|for a youngster who had yet to be baptised
in the seething turmoil of the big classic.
But Foxx surprised everyone, even himself,
by amassing an amazing total of hits WHEN
HITS COUNTED. Manager McCarty
thought so highly of his hitting prowess that
he walked him intentionally in the ninth
inning .of the final game with one out and
the winning run on second base.

And, finally, we find the name of “Mule”
Hass. Last year Mack decided to make his
bid for the pennant by adding Tris Speaker
and Ty Cobb to his team. By midseason he
saw that his plans were going awry. Cobb
and Speaker were slowing up. The Yankees
were going too far out in front. A drastic
shakeup was necessary. The tall tactician
placed Haas in centerfield —and FROM
THAT DAY the Athletics began to play
championship baseball. Had Mack made the
switch earlier the A’s might have won the
pennant. As it was they gave the Yanks a
thrilling race. during the last half of the
season. This year they started where they
left off last fall°and the race was never

stances when he lost several flies in the sun
and apparently easy outs were converted into
timely base hits.

Granting then that the Cubs have no
logical idol to place upon the present pedestal
of fame—I would write of the WHITE
ELEPHANTS, that thundering herd of
PROBOSCIDEANS (which is a four dol-
lar word in any language) that Connie Mack
brought out of the jungle to the highlands
of pennant country after an absence of fifteen
years, I would write of the mighty ATHLE-
TICS, a colorful replica of the great Mack-
men of 1911, who so strikingly upheld all of
the noble traditions of their immortal prede-
cessors. I would write of Howard Ehmke, Al
Simmons, Mickey Cochrane, Jimmie Dykes,
Lefty Grove, Jimmie Foxx and Mule Haas.

What & motley crowd this—Ehmke, an
erstwhile “has-been”; Simmons, a swarthy
Pole; Cochrane, a serious-minded New Eng-
lander; Dykes, a native Philadelphian;
Grove, a Blue Ridge mountaineer; Foxx, a
young Maryland farmer and Haas, a product
of the sand lots of Orange, New Jersey.

Connie Mack consulted the Great ‘Oracle,
the Theory of Chances, that Philosopher’s
Stone of all gamblers, and astounded ex-
perts and fans alike when he named the
veteran Ehmke to hurl the opening game.

“The choice was a bold psychological stroke
—so unexpected, so sudden, so daring that
the Cubs did not recover from its«shock
until the game was lost. Ehmke pitched a
masterful game in every respect, successfully
extricating himself from several extremely
dangerous situations in truly dramatic style.
Incidently he retired thirteen Cubs via the
strikeout route, thereby establishing a new
world’s series record. Victory in this initial
contest gave the A’s an impetus that the
much vaunted “fighting spirit” of the Mc-
Cartymen could not check.

The peculiar batting stance of Al Simmons
drew many a laugh from Cub fans who had
never seen him perform. But the mirth turned
‘to grief when this chronic hitter of bad balls
began to clout outside curves over the right
field barrier and fast ones on the inside into
the left field bleachers. Al’s Ruthian wallop
in the seventh inning of the fourth game was
the signal for the greatest batting rally in
world’s series history, an inning in which
many slugging. records were scattered to
the four winds.

Cochrane’s catching fairly scintillated. He
batted well above the select .300 circle and
his handling of pitchers was brilliant even
for “baseball’s premier backstop.”

: “Jimmie Dykes cavorted around the hot cor-
ner in his usual versatile manner making

close. “Mule’’ Haas proved to be the “spark
plug” in the mighty machine.

Twice during the present series Haas came
to bat with his team behind in the scoring
column and certain defeat staring them in
the face. And EACH time he rose to the
occasion of the moment and larrupted a home
run that put his mates back in the running.
The first was a long fly, in the fourth game,
that Wilson misjudged—but it came at an
opportune time with two men on the bases
and, it was the last straw toward breaking
the Cubs spirit. The second was a terrific
drive over the right field wall in the ninth
inning of the final game with one man on—
a wallop that tied the score and started the
rally that formally ended the great event.

The famous wrecking crew — Cochrane,
Simmons, Foxx and Miller—deserve loads of
credit in the series triumph. The great pitch-
ing quarte-—Ehmke, Grove, Walberg and
Earnshaw—played a distinct part in the
startling Athletic victory. Each regular of
ithe great Mack machine has his host of ad-
mirers who may claim the diadem for their
particular idol, BUT when you are analyzing
the new WORLD’S CHAMPIONS for that
winning ingredient ; when you reach the point
where your ultimate choice is inevitable;
when you select the HERO OF THE
|WORLD’S SERIES OF 1929— DON’T
OVERLOOK the name of “MULE” HAAS.

“Sabbath” Discussed
By Ministerial Band

The “Fourth Commandment” was the topic
discussed last Sunday afternoon at the regu-
lar meetings of the Ministerial Band. The
meeting, which was held in Shearer Hall
at 1:30 p. m., was led by F. D. Miller, presi-
dent. A round table discussion of the topic
was held, the key verse being Luke 6:5, “the
Son of man is Lord, also, of the Sabbath.”

Various methods of “remembering” the
Sabbath were discussed pro and con, practi-
cally every member -taking part. While it
was agreed that the conscience should cer-
tainly be the final guide in any decision, the
fact was cited that the conscience may be
easily dulled. If no day were set aside es-
pecially for God, the habit of worship would
soon fall into disuse.

The stories of Wilson, Lincoln, and Jack-
son were mentioned. It is said that they were
accustomed to spend at least one hour each
day with God. Even while president, Lincoln
forced all other duties into the background.
Wilson was accustomed to open his cabinet
meetings with prayer.

It was suggested that we, take time from
our mad rush of life in this busy modern
world and that we should allow God to com-
mune with us more.

The Sabbath, it was decided, should be a
day for refreshment of spirit both physically
and mentally as well as spiritually. Our
Lord himself, however, said that man should
do good on the Sabbath, “a man cannot be
religion without ‘doing’ his religion.”

The meeting was closed with a song and
a prayer by the leader.

The Ministerial Band is an organization
composed largely of students who have de-
cided to enter the ministry or who are con-
sidering such a step. Each week a meeting
is held and a discussion of some topic of
general interest is held. Any member of the
student body interested in these discussions
is cordially invited to attend.

Gardner Chosen As
Head of Wildkittens

At a recent meeting of the Freshman
football team Ulrich (“Buddy”) Gardner
was elected captain and L. S. Pierce alter-
nate captain for the season of 1929, Gardner
is from Decatur, Georgia, where he gained
his first football experience, playing center
on the high school team of that city. In
acknowledge of his abilities as a player he
was chosen All City Prep Center of Atlanta.
Gardner is pledged to Kappa Sigma Frater-
nity.

Pierce is playing end on the Freshman
team. He comes to Davidson from Oak
Ridge Military Academy where he was a
three-letter ‘man last year. Both of these
men have shown up unusually well with the
“Kittens” so far and are expected to exhibit
some fine football for the Frosh before the
season is over.

Y. M. C. A. PLANS BIG PARTY

‘(Continued from page 1)
torium there will be refreshments served in
the banquet hall below. This will conclude
the program which has been arranged.

Tickets for the entire program held in
Chambers, including the refreshments, will
be fifty cents for a student and seventy-five
if he brings a girl.

In addition to the program arranged by
the committee there will be an “entertain-
ment” in Mooresville beginning at 9:30,
which all students are invited to attend.

Lingle Boosts Davidson
In Speech Before Synod

Dr. W. L. Lingle returned last week from
a week’s trip to Asheboro, Rocky Mount,
and Richmond, Va. On Sunday he preached
at the Asheboro Presbyterian Church, con-
ducting the communion service in the morn-
ing.

From Asheboro he drove over to attend
the North Carolina Synod. While there, he
conducted the communion service for the
Synod, and on Wednesday night made a talk
on Personal Evangelism. In a talk which he
made on Davidson he brough out the fol-
lowing interesting points concerning the
school, the factulty, and the students:

The fact that every Presbyterian in North
Carolina has part ownership in Davidson
College.

The high educational standard of David-
son with such rating agencies as the Ameri-
tan Association of Colleges and with the
American Universities. gs

The high standing of the members of the
faculty as scholars, teachers, and Christian
gentlemen.

The fine student body of over six*hundred
young men who have come from refined
Christian homes.

The high ideals and Christian atmosphere
which pervade the ‘life’ of the college.
While in Rocky Mount he was entertained
in the home of Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Weeks,
parents of G. L. Weeks who was a student
at Davidson last year.

Dr. Lingle then went to Richmond, Va.,
where he attended the: meeting of General
Assembly's Executive Committee of Reli-
gious Education and Publication. While
there he was entertained at the home of Dr.
Ben R. Lacy, President of Union Theologi-
cal Seminary.

Dr.. Lifigle visited the Seminary and The
Assembly’s Training School of which he was
formerly president, and where he was given
a cordial reception.

Both in Richmond and at Rocky Mount
he saw a large number of Davidson alumni,
including some of the students now at the
seminary.

TROUSERS DONATED

(Continued from Page 1)

two hundred dollars to withhold his name
it has not been ‘possible for the band anc
student body to render any personal mark
of appreciation. Should he see this article.
however, it is hoped that he will accept the
sincere thanks of everybody on “The Hill”
for his thoughtfulness and generosity.

Jim: “Wall flowers are usually pretty
well withered.”
Tom: “But they are never pressed.” _

- Literary Societies

\

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic’ Literary Society met
Tuesday, October 8. The feature of the
evening was a declamation on “Lafayette”
by H. W. Ryburne. The program was cut
short as many of the members had reviews
the next morning. A debate is scheduled for
the next meeting between four Seniors. The
query and the participants have not been
chosen.

Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society held its
meeting last Tuesday evening. A feed was
given and a drill in Parliamentary law was
held. A. R. Jackson made the talk on
“Woodrow Wilson.”

An election of officers and also the ini-
tiation of new members is to take place at
the next meeting.

VA a}
DAVIDSON COLLEGE CHURCH

(Continued from page 1)

tonia; A. R. McQueen, Dunn; H. M. Mc-
Alister, Lumberton; A. P. Thorpe, Rocky
Mount; G. W. Hill, Durham; E. B. Crow,
Raleigh; C. E. Hodgin, Greensboro; Smith
Richardson, Greensboro, A. D. P. Gilmour
and W. P. Sprunt, Wilmington; J. S. Fos-
ter and D. Clay Williams, Winston-Salem.

Every Day Brings That
Fire Nearer.

Since 1913 all construction costs have
increased 96%. The policy which was
adequate then is now inadequate.

Has your Fire Insurance policy kept
pace with rising replacement costs?

we ig 4 rk ren consult with us re-

arding adequate insurance.
= San conveniently reach us b

You
telephone, by mail, or by personal

{F IT SHOULD BE Done—

It’s safer to have insurance—
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
+ Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Just Arrived:

A Complete New Line of Samples
in Suiting and Top Materials

You are Cordially Invited to Come
In and Look Them Over

STETSON “D”
STORE

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

It is a pleasure for us to serve you—
We are headquarters for
Seal-Fraternity and all

kinds of paper

Make our store your store

White Drug Company

6 SOD A”

“SUNDRIES”

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 22

“HOLLYWOOD REVIEW”

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 24

“PARIS BOUND”
“With A. N. Harding

‘ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25

“SIDE STREET”

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26

“THIRTEENTH CHAIR”

