THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

Kim’s Kolumn

th naan

Lightning flashed at random over the
American gridiron last Saturday, striking
where it was least expected. Alabama,
Iowa, Penn State and Vanderbilt were
the bolts out of the blue that simultan-
eously struck Kentucky, Minnesota, Pen-
nsylvania and Georgia Tech—completely
demolishing the titular hopes of three of
the latter, and concisively demonstrating
the terrific electrifying force of one of
the former, namely, Vanderbilt.

The passing of the second of the “cru-
cial” Saturdays of November finds the
field, in the hectic struggle for sectional
football honors, narrowed down to a very
few contenders. aos

With the end of the current gridiron
season just around the corner, the follow-
ing teams are outstanding in their respec-
tive sections:

East—Yale, Cornell and Pittsburgh.

Midwest—Purdue and Notre Dame .

Southwest—Texas Christian and South-
ern Methodist.

Far West—California,
Southern California.

South—Tennessee, Tulane and Vander-
bilt.

In the East Yale, with victories over
Brown, Army and Dartmouth, presents a
formidable record, despite an early defeat
by Georgia and a recent 13-13 tie with
Maryland. Cornell is undefeated, but has
been extended to the limit to win from
Princeton and Columbia, two mediocre
teams. Pittsburgh is ,also unbeaten and,
with victories over West Virginia, Ohio
State and Washington and Jefferson, is
still a distinct favorite to top the Eastern
standing. :

Western Maryland is another unbeaten
Eastern team which is hard to rank be-
cause of its forbidden schedule. Fordham
remains undefeated but has been tied

(bwice.

Notre Dame has beaten Indiana, Navy,
Wisconsin, Carnegie Tech and Georgia
Tech in a row and is far along the road
that leads to a National championship.
In the Big Ten Perdue reigns as the on-
ly undefeated team, although both Min-
nesota and Northwestern are still mathe-
matically in the running. :

In the Southwest Texas Christian has
won six straight games. Southern Meth-
odist is unbeaten, but has three ties. Bay-
lor is undefeated in the conference but
has lost to Centenary in a non-confer-
ence game.

California tops the Pacific Coast with
two victories and no defeats, although tied
by St. Mary’s in a non-conference game,
Southern California’s only defeat was
administered by California two weeks
ago. Stanford, although beaten by South-
ern California, has a great chance to re-
deem herself against California, Novem-
ber 23.

Tennessee and Tulane are unbeaten and
untied in the South. Vanderbilt has been
beaten by Minnesota, but still maintains
a clean conference slate, and appears to
be on a par with either of the Dixie lead-
ers. Tulane has the best record to date,
with victories over Georgia Tech and
Georgia on successive week-ends.

The roar of the intersectional challenge
fades as a dominant note in the football
clamor of the coming Saturday.

Southern California travels half-way
across the continent to meet Notre Dame
in Chicago in what promises to prove the
hardest test thus far for Rockne’s Ramb-
lers. The eyes of the entire nation will be
focused on Soldiers Field where the Tro-
jans will attempt to wrest victory from
the Irish.

The South tosses a faint challenge to
the East, when Missouri moves into the
Yankee Stadium to battle New York Uni-
versity. West Virginia invades George-
town and Wake Forest tackles Navy in
two other intersectional duels, but all of
these battles are scarcely worthy of note.

One might well apply the phrase “East
is East and West is West... .” in not im-
portant contests as the conflict continues
along a far-flung battle line.

The Pitt Panthers may uncover a real
threat in Carnegia Tech. The age-old feud
between these two rivals always proves
the necessary |tonic for a hard-fought
battle. Pitt should win by a small margin,
remaining at the peak of the champion-
ship heap.

Dartmouth, even wthout the great Al
Marsters, should add Cornell to its long
string of scalps. But for a bad break in
the Yale game the Big Green would still
be in the forefront of the) championship

_ scramble. : :

Albie Booth, Yale’s candidate for All-

Stanford and

A YEAR AGO TODAY
The Home-Coming game with Carolina on Richardson Field last year

Davidson Scouts Praise
Strong Carolina Eleven

“Cats” Prepare for Hardest Game
of Season

Davidson College foqtball scouts, who saw

the University of North Carolina submerge
their sister
under a deluge of touchdowns in Columbia
last Saturday, have returned to the David-
son campus with phrases .of commendation
that heretofore were not known to exist.
They maintain that every contention pre-
viously made that the North Carolina Uni-
versity had a wonder team was amply veri-
fied that day, with more addéd for emphasis.

institution in South Carolina

All of which means that the Davidson Col-

lege Wildcats are going to run up against
an opponent today of more scoring power
than any team previously met this season,
not even excepting the Army boys. The Caro-
lina Tar Heels likewise will have a defen-
sive combination that will be difficult for
the Davidson backfield aces to penetrate, and
will also be superior to the Wildcats in the
overhead attack,

Coaches Younger and Tilson have not an-

nounced an unusual preparation for the con-
test with the University, but will continue
to work with their men
adopted throughout the season. It is believed,
however, that special emphasis will be placed
this week on a defense against a forward
passing attack, in which the Tar Heels excel
to the nth degree, if such a thing is possible
on a football field.

along the lines

The Davidson team is in good shape fol-

lowing Saturday’s engagement in Raleigh,
and those players who suffered minor bruises
and abrasions are expected to be in fine
fettle before 2:30 o'clock today, when the

AS I PICK ’EM

NORTH CAROLINA at Davidson.
CENTRE at Transy.

N. C. State at DUKE,

SOUTH CAROLINA at Furman.
ALABAMA at Georgia Tech.
MISSISSIPPI at Louisiana State.
Mercer at CITADEL.

Sewanee at TULANE.

Clemson at FLORIDA.
KENTUCKY at Virginia Military.
VANDERBILT at Tennessee.
Maryland at V. P. I.

Virginia at WASHINGTON& LEE.
Bucknell at PENN STATE.
Colgate at SYRACUSE,

Columbia at PENN.

Cornell at DARTMOUTH.
DAVIS AND ELKINS at Villanova.
Dickinson at ARMY.

Thiel at FORDHAM.

GENEVA at BOSTON U.

WEST VIRGINIA at Georgetown.
Holy Cross at HARVARD.
NORTHWESTERN at Indiana.
Missouri at N: Y. U.

Kenyon at OHIO STATE.
Bucknell at PENN STATE.

Iowa at PURDUE.

Princeton at YALE.

Lehigh at RUTGERS.
Washington at CALIFORNIA.
Chicago at ILLINOIS.
MINNESOTA at Michigan.
Southern California at NOTRE DAME.
Wake Forest at NAVY.

PERSONAL NOTES

(Continued from Page 5)

great team of “Chuck” Collins trots out to
meet the proteges of “Monk” Younger.

T. U. O. Announces

Recent Initiates

Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity

announces the pledging and initiation of
the following men since bid day: John G.
Knox, ’31, Statesville, Charles E. Kraemer,
31, Texarkana, Ark,; and A.
laughlin, ’32, Chester, S. C.

M. Mc-

American honors, should cinch his berth
at Princeton’s expense with comparatively
little trouble,

Two strong teams meet .face to face

when Iowa and Purdue meet at Lafayette.
A defeat by one point has marred Iowa’s
record, but her startling win over Min-
nesota last week has exposed her real
strength. Purdue, rollicking along under
wraps, will be forced to uncover every-
thing to turn back the Gophers.

The coming week offers many stirring

events in the Southland. Saturday is a
day when every conference eleven will see
action and, excluding the Tulane-Sewanee
tilt, none of the engagements should prove
soft spots.

The Vanderbilt-Tennessee affair par-

tially eclipses the others for both con-
testants are still undefeated in the con-

ference. Both have been pointing for this

one game all fall and there should be
plenty of fireworks, with the final out-
come having a distinct bearing on the

Dixie title.

Alabama, fresh from its

eleven.

Florida, with a two weeks rest after
the Harvard trip, should take the measure
of Clemson. The Tigers seem to have
wilted after an early season spurt that

promised to carry them far.

Kentucky, apparently lacking the scor-
ing power of one “Shipwreck” Kelly last
Saturday, should turn the tables at the
expense of the V. M. I. Cadets, while
Georgia. should lick Auburn, but not by a

large score.

crushing
triumph over Kentucky, will attempt to
wipe out the stigma of defeat at the hands
of Tennessee and Vanderbilt by wrecking
vengeance on a weakened Georgia Tech

the past several years a member of the Char-
lotte bar, has been appointed district mana-
ger of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Company. =

C. T. Overton, ’24, of Salisbury, has been
appointed deputy commissioner of the North
Carolina Real Estate Commission, and here-
after will be located at his headquarters in
Greensboro.

Births

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, and Mrs.
McKay, of Charlotte, announce the birth
of a son, Hamilton W., Jr., on October 28.

Dr. H. R. McConnell, ’20, and Mrs. Mc-
Connell, of Gastonia, announce the birth of
a son, B. Yates, on October 30,

Mr. William C. Harris, ’25, and Mrs. Har-
ris, of New York, announce the birth of a
son, William C. Harris, Jr., on November 3.

Mr. William B. Kiser, ’27, and Mrs. Kiser,
of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son on
October 28.

MUSIC

(Continued from Page 7)

display a genuine interest in music. In
the near future it is hoped that a room
will be furnished and equipped with a
piano and an orthophonic victrola, the
use of which is generously extended to
non-members who desire to listen to vic-
trola recordings in a suitable atmosphere.
The principles of Mu Beta Psi are in-
genuous and the constitutents are working
for the college. We wish them abundant
success in their splendid enterprise.

Town News
Doctor Hood conducted services in the
First Presbyterian Church of Statesville
Sunday.

Miss Kalista Hood has gone to California
where she will spend the winter.

Doctor and Mrs. Porter and , Catherine

Porter attended the exercises at Taylorsville.

Davidson Radio Club
Hears New Zealand

In the small hours of the morning about
two weeks ago a few of the faithful
gathered around in the radio room to ex-
change messages with Auckland, New
Zealand. Mr. Arthur of the Auckland
Amateur Station said that the Davidson
dots and dashes were heard clearly. Be-
sides New Zealand, the local station has
exchanged messages with Nova Scotia,
Ontario, and California. The Davidson
station is in the Army Amateur Net and
can dispose of messages at any time. The
station is a 71-2 watt transmitter oper-
ating on 20, 40, and 80 meters respective-
ly. The members hope to secure a radio
phone station soon.

In addition to this interesting work of
exchanging messages with far off places,
there is a class for the studying of radio.
A series of talks has been completed and
at the present the time is devoted to code
practice,

The Club has two purposes: One is to
promote interest in amateur fadio at
Davidson College; the second is to enable
all members to be able to pass the
amateur test so that they may become
licensed amateur radio operators.

President Bettis also states that those
who have been attending radio class will
be given an oppotrunity to go to Char-
lotte son to visit Station WBT. They will
visit both the broadcasting room and the
transmitting room.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

(Continued from Page 5)

years has been connected with Mayo Clinic
at Rochester, Minn. He has recently moved
to Texarkana, Texas, where he and his
bride will reside.

Pullen-Brooks
Dr. E, C. Brooks, president of N. C. State
College, and Mrs. Brooks, of, Raleigh, an-
nounce the marriage of their daughter, Sarah,
to Edwin Tilmon Pullen, Jr., of Winston-
Salem, at Raleigh, November 9. Mrs. Pullen
received her education at Converse College.
Mr. Pullen graduated from Davidson in 1926,
taught in the Winston-Salem schools for
two years and has since been connected with

ENGAGEMENTS

(Continued from Page 5)
Columbia Theological Seminary. Since grad-
uation he has been located at Clarkesville,
Ga.

Dudley-Crayton

Mrs. Chess Rutledge Dudley announces the
engagement of her daughter, Rutledge, to
Byrd Thompson Crayton, both of Charlotte.
The weeding will be an event of December
28. Mr. Crayton graduated from Davidson
in the class of 1926, and since completing
his four years here has been located in Char-
lotte, where they will reside after the mar-
riage.

Lineberger-Brand

Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Lineberger, of Bel-
mont, announce the engagement of their
daughter, Martha Angeline, to Robert Al-
fred Brand, Jr., of Wilmington and Hart-
ford, Conn. The wedding will take place in
the spring. Following his graduation in 1927,
Mr. Brand became connected with the Aetna
Life Insurance Company, with headquarters
at Hartford, Conn., where they will reside
unless a transfer occurs before the wedding.

Whitsett-Holt

Mrs. W. T. Whitsett, of Whitsett, N. C.,
announces the engagement of her daughter,
Lucille, to Arnold Lea Holt, of Burlington.
The wedding will occur in December. Mr.
Holt is in the class of 1928, and after he
left Davidson he made business connections
in his home town, Burlington, where they
will reside after the marriage.

Carter-Newson

Mr. and Mrs. Peyton Lee Carter, of Chat-
tanooga, Tenn., announce the approaching
marriage of their daughter, Mirian Peyton,
to Henry Goodall Newson, of Charlotte. The
marriage will take place in Chattanooga on
the evening of November 28. Miss Carter
attended Queens College, and Mr. Newson
is in the class of 1928 at Davidson. He is
now connected with the Southern Public
Utilities Company, of Charictte. They will
reside in that city after the marriage.

the Pilot Company, of Winston-Salem. Mr.
and Mrs. Pullen will reside in that city.

La

Wild Cat Belts
Felt Goods
Sundries

New Records Every Week
Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

Magazines
Stationery
Fountain Pens

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
< YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

