THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

mT
UA

i
I
yt |

mice

Engagements

Dunklee-Critz

Mrs. Frank G. Dunklee, of Winston-
Salem, has announced the engagement of her
daughter, Alice Cabell, to Robert Critz,
also of Winston-Salem. The wedding will
take place in December. Mr. Critz is in
class of 1917, and is now located in Winston-
Salem. Mr. Critz was the first alumnus to
return to a Home-Coming by airplane, when
he brought several friends to Davidson last

fall.

Moody-Schenck
Announcement

has— already been made
through these columns of the engagement
of Miss Sarah Elizabeth Moody to John
Richard Schenck, both of Salisbury,’ but
because the wedding is to occur tonight in
Salisbury it is recounted again. The wedding
party will attend the football game here
today. Mr. Schenck is in the class of 1921.
Knight-Richards

Mrs. Robert Jackson Knight, Sr., of
Safety Harbor, Fla., announces the engage-
ment of her daughter, May Evelyn, to Rev.
James McDowell Richards, of Clarkesville,
Ga., and Davidson, N. C. The wedding will
take place late in December. Mr. Richards
is in the class of 1922, and following a bril-
liant career on the campus was chosen as a
Rhodes scholar. He spent two years at Ox-
ford, later completing his seminary work at

(Continued on page 8)

An Appeal

Elsewhere on this page an appreciation has
been voiced for the kindness of The David-
sonian. in permitting the alumni office ‘to
have one page of its publication weekly to
announce events and items of interest to
Davidson alumni. An appeal is made to the
alumni body as a whole, and to individual
men, to keep in touch with the alumni sec-
retary, and voluntarily send him anything
about himself that would be of interest to
his friends.

Through approximately twenty newspapers
of the state, which the alumni secretary
carefully scans daily, many things of interest
are obtained, but the efforts of one man
can not suffice in giving a comprehensive
report of alumni activity weekly. Information
about alumni outside this state is seldom
obtained unless Davidson alumni respond to

Welcome

From Ernest Milton, Alumni
Secretary

Every year the college sets aside
one day in which the interests of
its alumni are supreme, when they
are invited back to the campus to
view it in all of its marvelous ad-
vancement, and when they can come
back and have re-vivified the mem-
ories of their collegiate life. That
day is today. And it is a day when
we hope you will be perfectly at
home, will enter all of the exercises
with the enthusiasm of the days
when you were a student here, and
will leave Davidson with a warmer
feeling of loyalty and a greater sense
of devotion to her interests.

We welcome you. We welcome

_ you in sincerity. We welcome you
with a wealth of cordiality. Our
hearts are made glad that you have
seen fit to honor us with your pres-
ence today. It is a pleasure to meet
you over the Southland and in oth-
er parts of the United States, but
we are far happier when you come
back from points near and far to
the scenes of your early manhood,
giving us an opportunity to make
you feel at home and make you live
again the days of yore.

May this day be one replete with
continuous happy events for you.
May you be glad that you came.
And may the ties that have been
dear to you in the past become even
dearer because of the hours you
spent in treading the same path-
ways, and in meeting again the
friends of your collegiate life.

this appeal.

It is gratifying to those in authority to
note the increasing number of letters re-
ceived in the alumni office, announcing mar-
riages, engagements, births or other facts.
The presidents of local alumni associations
are assisting in this manner. But an urgent
appeal is made to everyone to take a few
movements off from business duties and keep
the alumni secretary informed as to what
you are doing.

TODAY’S SPEAKER

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of David-
son College, who is speaking to the David-
son alumni for the first time since he
assumed the presidency of this college.

Personal Notes

Hudson Leathers, '27, who graduated from
the Harvard Business School last June, is
now on a trip around the world. He re-
cently wrote Dr. T. W. Lingle, ’93, member
of the Davidson faculty, in which he stated
that his route had been via Japan, China,
India and other points. He had visited Ur
and Babylon, where Dr. and Mrs, Lingle
were registered last April.

Alexander Sprint, Jr., '18, of Charleston,
S. C., has been publishing a number of in-
teresting feature articles in the “Charlotte
Observer”’ recently on bird life, of which he
has made an extensive study since he left
Davidson.

Dr. Oren Moore, '08, and Dr. Hamilton
W. McKay, '06, both of Charlotte, last week
attended a meeting of the Cumberland Medi-
cal Society in Fayetteville, before which body
they both delivered addresses.

George W. King, °19, of Charlotte, for
(Continued on Page 8)

CHAMPIONSHIP BAND PLAYS,-AT DAVIDSON TODAY

quillity, Oxford, N. C.

Welcome
From W. L. Younger, Head Coach

The Davidson College Athletic
Association as a unit and as individ-
ualists happily joins all other de-
partments of the college in greeting
you most heartily and in voicing the
hope that the days elapsed since you
were last at Davidson have been
filled with success and joy. May the
renewal of your contact with the
college today be maintained indefi-
nitely, and may your interest in her
grow ever stronger as the years
pass.

You have returned for many
events at Davidson today, most of
which have been especially arranged
for your entertainment. We are glad
that the athletic department can
have a part in the program for Dav-
idson alumni, and we truly hope
that the contest today may be sat-
isfactory to you.

The game this afternoon will give
some of you the first opportunity
of seeing the 1929 football team in
action. As that team takes the field,
remember that they are fighting for
you, as well as for the members of
the present student body, and for
their love of the game. Only as you
lend your support to them can they
attain success. Back the teams of
your college to the limit and take
pride in them as your own. I know
that the boys will do their best for
you, and will appreciate the loyalty
that you manifest from time to
time.

Alumni Marriages

Daniel-Holton

Mrs. J. Q. Holton announces the marriage
of her daughter, Evelyn Graves, to Nathaniel
Venable Daniel, on Saturday, October 26,
in Raleigh. Mrs. Daniel received her educa-
tion at Duke University, and the Assembly’s
Training School of Richmond, Va. Mr, Dan-
iel was in the class of 1908, and after leaving
Davidson he taught for a number of years
in North Carolina, later taking up farming.
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel are at home at Tran-

Crouch-Harris
Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Harris, of Atlanta,

Appreciation

The alumni office at Davidson takes pleas-
ure in using this medium to express its ap-
preciation to “The Davidsonian” for the space
which is weekly allowed the Alumni Asso-
ciation to recount important events of pri-
mary interest to the alumni constituency as
a whole. At the same time, “The Davidson-
ian” is commended to the consideration of
former: students of the college, in the hope
that manifestation of support will be evident
in subscriptions to this publication.

Each week one page of this paper is al-
lotted to the alumni secretary for his use as
he sees fit. Upon that page he endeavors to
give a comprehensive cross-section of alumni
activity. Some of the things on the page in-
clues announcements of marriage or engage-
ments of Davidson alumni, changes of ad-
dress, births to Davidson alumni and_ their
wives, individual personal mention of any
recognition that has come to an alumnus of
the college, and articles dealing with the
advancement of the alumni work. Occasion-
ally pictures of Davidson alumni are used
through the courtesy of newspapers.

The alumni page is a medium through
which you can, in ‘a measure, keep up with
your friends. But aside from this, the publi-
cation gives you comprehensive details of
the intimate life and activity of the students
themselves, and is a means of keeping abreast
of the progress of the institution.

which he is now cashier. Mr. and Mrs.
Crouch will reside in Charlotte.

Good-Dean

Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Dean, of St. Paul,
Minn., announce — the marriage of their
daughter, Dorothy, to Dr. Louis Porter
Good, of Texarkana, Texas, on October 3Y.
Doctor Good is in the class of 1919, and ob-
tained his master of arts degree from David-
son after graduation. He attended the Johns
Hopkins Medical School, and for several

(Continued on page 8)

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY

Ga., announce the marriage of their daughter,
Katherine Chappell, to George Sanford
Crouch, of Charlotte, the wedding taking
place in Charlotte on November 2. Mr.
Crouch is in the class of 1918, and when he

NORTON’S
left Davidson he entered the navy, Follow- BARBER SHOP
ing his discharge he became connected with

the Union National Bank, of Charlotte, of ry

Shoe. Repairing As It Should Be Done |

ACTUAL PRICES IF TICKET RATE
TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF:

Half Soles - - - + $1.04;
Heels’ - - 413

WRIGHT CLEANING CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Bob Turner, 31 Georgia

| Eat
| LANCE’S
Eats

SERVICE

The Lenoir High School Band, winner of
the state championship contest, has again
been brought to Davidson under the aus-
pices of the Alumni and Athletic Asso-
ciations. They played at Home-Coming
last year, and are a feature at other North
Carolina football games.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s. Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

