THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Collegiate
Comment

ee

FEATURES

.

On This
and That

Music
By

Horace W. Erwin

The Organ

Seated one day at the organ,
was weary and ill at ease,
And my fingers wandered idly
Over the noisy keys.
I do not know whatsI was playing,
Or what I was dreaming then;
But I struck one chord of music
Like the sound of a great Amen.
—From ‘The Lost Chord.”

—Adelaide A. Procter.

The organ in its modern and most com-
plete form is. the largest, most powerful,
and most varied in its resources of all
musical instruments. It is almost capable
of the qualities of a symphony orchestra.
The sight of one, however, with its sev-
eral manuals and multifarious pipes and
stops offers no hint of its lowly origin.

It is an arresting fact that this largest
of all instruments is a descendant of the
simple pipe played by the shepherds on
the hillsides of ancient Greece. The first
indication of growth arose with the ar-
rangement of the pipes in order and the
supply, of wind for them so that they
could produce tones without being blown
into separately. It is recorded that about
170 B. C. an Alexandrian mechanic in-
vented a hydraulic organ in which the
wind supply was furnished by water pres-
sure. This ‘instrument did not survive.

Most organs were furnished with air
by two attendants who blew into.a tube
connected to the wind-chest. The earliest
Organs had a small compass of but one
octave. They consisted’ of a row of up-
right pipes, the length of which were ar-
ranged to regulate the pitch of the tones,
and sotinded when air was admitted
through a valve at the bottom of the
pipes. The valves were controlled by
slides which could be pulled in and out
by the players.

We have a vivid description of this from

a Greek writer of the Fourth Century,
A.D. “T see a strange sort of reeds—they
must methinks have sprung: from no
earthly, but a brazen soil. Wild are they,
nor does the breath of man stir them,
but a blast, leaping forth from a cavern
of oxhide, passes“within, beneath the roots
of the polished reeds.”

The organ assumed its place in church
music aboutythe Fifth Century, but no
radical improvement in its structure ap-
peared until the Eleventh or Twelfth
Century, when a keyboard was added.
The keys were very clumsy, ranging from
three to six inches in width, and had to
be struck by the player’s clenched first—
when he was called “organ-beater.”

Our Organ

The modern instrument is well repre-
sented by the Skinner in our own audi-
torium. The astounding improvement of
the present organ over the medieval can
be inferred from the fact. that the Skinner
in Chambers does not comprise, strictly
speaking, a single organ, but no less than
four, which are present in the three man-
uals, Great, Swell, and Choir, and in’ the
Pedal. Combinations and adjustments can
be effected to unite these different organs.

Cf the Manual, the Great Organ has 444
pipes, the Swell 1.108, the Choir 428; of
the Pedal there are. 112, making a total
of 2092 pipes behind the walls on the
platform. The Pedal can increase its
number by “borrowing” from lower reg-
isters of the pipes of the other organs.
Our instrument is distinctive in that very
little “borrowing” is necessary, which in-
dicates the completeness of the organs.

The four tonal qualities of the organ are
important: Diapason (pure tone, indi-
geneous to the organ), Reed, Flute, and
String. Trios, quartets, and ensembles
can thus be built up, and a symphony or-
chestra can be imitated by combinations
of all divisions.

The action of the instrument is electric
and pneumatic throughout on a thorough-
ly modern principle. There are no me-
chanical connections between keyboard
and organ chambers, as of old, for mod-
ern science has given electrical contact.
Power is furnished by a 71-2 horsepower
motor in the basement, and a huge blower
conveys wind for each organ through gal-
vanized air ducts.

Mastery over the organ comes only aft-
er years of diligent study and application.
Davidson is indeed fortunate in having

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

This column is a new venture, will ap-
pear every week on this page. Its purpose
is to present to the students a brief sur-
vey of some of the new, and of the old
but obscure books, which have real lit-
erary value. A report is submitted each
week by one of the eight men who com-
prise the Book Review Club. It is be-
lieved that beri bd men should have wide
and liberal knowledge of the better books,
and it is hoped that a column such as
No will do much to create interest in

em.

All Quiet on the Western Front, by
Erich Maria Remarque. Little, Brown &
Co., Boston, 1929. $2.50.

“All Quiet on the Western Front” is
considered by many as the first great war
novel which has been published since the
Great War. Certainly the book has a
greatness which the average war novel
does not have.

Erich Maria Remarque takes the nar-
rative from his own war experiences.
There are four main characters, although
millions come upon the stage. These four
are young men at the beginning of the
war—barely eighteen years of age. We are
presented glimpses of these men as they
serve down to the close of the war. One
feels with them the hardships of the
struggle — the pains of battle and the
cries of dying comrades. Toward the end,
only one of the four is left, and he is an
old man then. Later, he too perishes.

Remarque has given us a vivid picture
of war with its poignant tragedies. He
shows us the field of combat and the quiet
before the battle—the deadly quiet which
wrecks men’s nerves. However, on the
other hand, he also shews us happy mo-
ments which come during hours of rest.
But above all there is a sadness, an in-
evitable gloom. Remarque says that his
book is a tale of a generation of men,
who, though they have escaped
its death, were destroyed by the
This German writer takes us to the very
depths of things, and asks us “WHY?”

even
war.

The German has just killed a French-
man. There is a deadly silence. The man
thinks. He must talk.

“Comrade, I did not want to kill you.
If you jumped in here again, I would not
do it, if you would, be sensible too, But
you were only an idea to me before, an
abstraction that lived in my mind and
called forth its appropriate response. It
was that abstraction I stabbed, But now,
for me. I thought of your hand-grenades,
your bayonet, of your rifle; now I see
your wife and your face and our fellow-
ship. Forgive me, Comrade. We always
see it too late. Why do they never tell us
that you are just poor devils like us,
that your mothers are just as anxious as
ours, and that we have the same fear of
death, and the same dying, and the same
agony—Forgive me, Comrade; how could
you be my enemy. If we threw away these
rifles and this uniform, you would be my
brother just like Kat and Albert. Take
twenty years of my life, Comrade, and
stand up—take more, for I do not know
what I can even attempt to do with it
now.”

This book is one of the greatest con-
tributions ever made to the advancement
of peace among the nations of the world.
It is a step toward understanding, coming
as it does from the very heart of this
German soldier. It is a human writing,
filled with the deepest emotions of the
writer’s heart—a great achievement. Every
man owes it to himself and to the world
to read this book.

—William S. Lea.

The bigger the summer vacation the
harder the fall. :

Freshman—“Gee, I’m in an awful hole.”

Sophomore—“What’s the matter?”

Freshman — “I’ve spelled ‘professor’
with two f’s and don’t know which one
to cross out.”

Speaking of “floating universities,”
you've got to hand it to Papa Noah.

Then there was the Scotchman who
bought the car because the clutch was
thrown in.

English Prof.: “What do you think of
Shakespeare’s plays?”

Freshman: “What team does he play
on?”

such a consummate artist as Dean Vardell
of Salem College to give the dedicatory
recital tomorrow evening. It is impres-
sive to reflect that if he uses but half the
pipes of the instrument he will be giving
a performance which would require the
concerted effort of 1,046 shepherd pipers
of ancient Greece.

Nouvelle Evant-hier

Boost Davidson

R. E. W.

Interesting work this! A search for mate-
rial is a gymnastic feat of strength; delving
into long closed chapters of a life, with eager
eyes as the spade of judgment; climbing
down long years, searching every landing
for the muddy steps of those who passed
before; roaming through a weird necropolis
stumbling on dead bodies of forgotten men,
catching glimpses of their errors, their faults,
and now and then twisting the hidden stone
of mystery to have the soul blinded in sudden
flashes of heroism. Newspapers are the
graveyards of Transition! A shy of jagged
clouds; a weeping street transporting ages of
sorrow and funeral dramas; a stone filled
with inhibitions of life, carved in forgotten
words, standing and still standing and always
standing, facing eternal relentléss
in its rugged strength.

Closing chapters of the war. A. strange
silence reigns on those printed sheets; si-
lence broken now and then sby demoniac
screams of humor, bolstering courage. Tales
of gallant warriors, alumni of Davidson.
Mighty acts; fear and bravery. Stark grand-
eur of waiting and hearing and seeing. Pa-
triotism burning cool and steady as the flare
of a meteor. Such the pages of war.

Davidson College grows mightier day by
day. From a student body of sixty-six rising
to its present state. Looking back over past
years to the time when there were only
eight buildings on the campus: One tradi-
tion goes with the school—its chapel. This
building stood on the present site of Shearer
Hall. Stewart Hall once hearing the echoes
of classroom recitation and feeling the grind-
wrench of many feet upon its stairs, gazed
out across the cotton patch, which lent an
enticing romance to the landscape, from the
spot on which our library now — stands.
Tammany Hall, relic of past governmental
politics, sheltering and guarding the sleep-
ing students, knowing their sorrows, their
joys and their whole life, stood over the
foundation of the chemical building, waiting
and watching, hoping for the best fate and
expecting the worst. Those buildings? Gone
and leaving no place in the minds of man.
They served their time, served well, uncom-
plaining of their end:

storms,

“And that inverted howl we call the

sky,
Whereunder crawling cooped we live and
die.
Life not thy hands to it for help—forit
Rolls impotently on as thou or I,”
Literary publications in the school have

suffered similar trials. The first volume pub-
lished on the campus was entitled the David-
son Monthly, and contained literary publica-
tions mingled with news; a life containing
the best and the worst of man’s thoughts and
actions ; possibly a cheerful life; pages filled
with deeds bound in leather backs; deeds in
sackcloth; cherished moods, living and dying
i nthe narrow confines of a leather back!

To its place at once rose the Davidson
College Month! yedited by six literary men
selected by the literary societies. Its time,
too, was short for its existed barely a year
but two, and was laid aside with its older
minister. Its fall was followed by fourteen
years of silence on the part of the student.
What passed in those fe wyears no one
knows, nor will ever know. The silent pas-
sage of time was again broken in {1886 by
some one more ambitious than our average
run of men. Under this new regime the
Davidson Monthly was revived and pursued
its course, tossing and rolling, gaining new
freedom and new light, yet finally dying
down into the chaos of darkness, carrying
away old thoughts and new, leaving blank-
ness and the mind.

Truth, honor and justice, Davidson has
known them all; from a small courageous
beginning to the, present miraculous setting
we have carried our lighted lamps and stum-
bled through a drear bleakness to light and
liberty. I wandered far seeking the Truths
of Life. In hidden countries where the secret
rites of strange religions ruled. And I asked
for the Truths of Life. Some told me to
seek freedom; some said, be noble. And still
I wandered. Through wild places haunted by
ghouls of ancient times. And I came to the
mystic lands where Buddha had thought and
dreamed and died. He surely had found what
I sought. They who ruled his palace pointed
to honesty; some cried that Faithfulness was
the end of my quest. So I came away be-
cause I was doubtful. And I sought among

the stars. They whispered that they did not

YOUNGER GENERATION ON
HORSEBACK

“In my six months’ tour of colleges and
universities,” writes Vachel Lindsay in the
November College Humor. “I noted among
the students and young professors a tide
that is rising, the Cavalier spirit in a 1929-
1939 form.

“Our younglings believe, in the divine right
of splendor, neither the splendor of kings
nor of Babbitts, but the splendor of their
own sense of design, the divine right to
choose and put on their own pageants, to
give Maypole dances and elect their own
queen of the May.

“They believe in freedom in choice of reli-
gion more than any other one group of
citizens of the United States, and a typical
committee for a Washington’s Birthday cele-
bration of distinction and even grandure may
be a Catholic, a Christian Scientist, a Jew,
a Unitarian and a kid from Chicago still
ballyhooing about Ingersoll watches and
Robert_G, Ingersoll. But they work in har-
mony and frienship to the end of achieving
this new splendor, which challenges and de-
stroys the Babbitts, who are their own
blood fathers.

“And they hate above all the caste sys-
tem, temporarily created by Babbitt, which
puts the business man above the artist in
every field of life. Their form of American-
ism would put the born artist above the
whole business system of America and keep
him there, with his heel 6n the neck of Bab-
bitt, whatever the blood or stock or race or
family history of the artist. If that is a
cast system, they have indeed a cast system.

“They are not Cavaliers in the sense in
which Cavaliers of old England fought
Cromwell and Milton. Quite the contrary.
If a Cromwell or Milton should appear, they
would follow him and sing with him to the
death. They hate the little cowards and will

know. Wearily wandering I journeyed on.
A star pursued, pleading after me: Today a
man died. Yesterday he lived. And as him
all others are. Is not this the Truth of Life?
The voice of the star faded slowly away.
And I wandered on.

follo wthe bold and gallants spirits wherever
they find them.

“And they are brilliant, dashing, deécor-
ative, always on_horseback in imagination,
and inthat sense they are Cavaliers.”

Oy, Oy, Oye!
One oyster met one oyster,
And they were oysters two,
Two oysters met two oysters,
And they were oysters, too.
Four oysters met a pint of milk,
And thex were oyster stew.

Upperclassman (to freshman on first
appearance in public dance hall), “Oh,
so you're a debutante?”

Frosh: “No, Sigma Zeta.”

Hopeless Task — The little girl who
looks for uncles in an ant hill.

LOOK OUT BELOW!

You may be able to look out for
the falling airplane; but your home or
place of business cannot look out for
itself. You must do thatl——by pro-
viding AIRCRAFT PROPERTY
DAMAGE INSURANCE to protect
{t against direct loss or damage by
falling aircraft and by tools or other
objects dropped therefrom. Annual
rate: 5c a $100, with 50% coinsur-
ance.

It’s safer to have insurance—
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A td

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

STANDS FOR

Loyalty to Christ and His Word

Scholarship combined with a passion for

Evangelism

Responsibility for a World Mission to be served

by the trained sons of our Church

B. R. Lacy, Jr.,

POSSESSES

A loyal, scholarly, envangelical Faculty

A Seminary Spirit enrich by the prayers and

services of her sons

A Student body drawn from the South’s and

Nation’s consecrated young manhood

Richmond, Virginia.

D.D., President

