x<« |THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

we 4

HAPPY
NEW YEAR

Vol. XVII

——

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 12, 1929

7
No. 13

Dean Carroll of U.N. C.

Advises Sound Business
And Not Soft Sentiment

Tells of Problems Confronting
Capitalist, Operator, and
Wage-Earner

STOCK HOLDERS GREEDY

Loosening of Anti-Trust Laws to
Force Co-operation May be
Solution of Problem

“Sound business and not soft sentiment”
is the most probable solution of the present
period of unrest in the industries of North
Carolina and the South according to Dean
1. D. Carroll, of the School of Commerce of
the University of North Carolina. Dean Car-
roll addressed an audience composed largely
of economics students of Davidson at the
Chambers auditorium Monday night.

He painted a vivid picture of the mill
operator, a mere salaried man, squeezed on
one side with a desire to treat the laborers
fairly in all ways and on the other side with
the “bread and butter” proposition of small
stock holders clamouring for larger divi-
dends, and the ever powerful problem of the
consumers wanting the cheapest product
without scruples as to how and why it is so
cheap. Dean Carroll struck close to the
heart of the whole problem.

We, the consumers and the small stock
owners in our greediness and disregard, are
in the large measure responsible for the
trouble, while the fly by night pirates and
buccaneers of the industrial field with their

exploitation of human labor under our noses
complete the picture. It is a period ef-unrest.

* Delving into the sound economics of the
Proposition, he attempted to show the exact
stages through which the rather critical situ-
atibn has arisen in the mills of our section.
“We are now,” he stated, “going through a
period of transition from agricultural to in-
dustrial economy. It is a change from per-
sonal\contacts to impersonal ones. No longer
may the owner, a man, or family be moved
by the condition.

Now, it is a time of wide ownership. The
cold impersonal, dividend-seeking ownership,
is distant and cold to the condition of the
wage earners, the laborers. Against this kind
of ownership there has grown up a feeling
of unity in a common understanding of the
risks of the wage earner. The protection of
the wage earner is negligible; he is merely a
tool to be cast aside in times of bad business
conditions.

Coming back to the problem of the con-
sumer, he said it was a well known fact that
without a market an industry cannot exist.
This market is a very competitive one. The
man who gets the best, goods on the market
at the cheapest price is sure to monopolize
it. It is for this reason that, though. some
mills would render the conditions more fav-
orable for their employees, they cannot be-
cause their competitors will not do the same
thing. It is a matter of business and not
sentiment. A slip, and bankruptcy would be
the result.

To meet the ever present demand for divi-
dends and low priced goods, the production
costs must be lowered. The cost of raw mate-
rials is fairly stable. It is the wages that
suffer, Again-some-factories- will- run longer
shifts; a price saving for them, yet a great
hindrance toward any half-way settlement
of the situation.

A possible suggestion for sucha situation
would be that of a slight loosening of the
anti-trust laws to allow honest producers to
form some sort of a system of production,
something to allow and practically force co-
operation. This was once suggested by Presi-
dent Hoover. Even at that the situation
would not be especially bettered. Indeed the
producer needs sympathy as does the e
earner. He is being gradually squeezed by
the sthall owners for bigger dividends and
the consumers for flower prices. In the
squeeze, unfortunately the wage earner gets
the pressure. In brief the producer and, in-
directly, the wage earner are at the power
of the market.

CHRISTMAS HOUSE PARTY

SPONSORED

College Program
Heard Over WBT

On last Monday evening between 7 and 8
o'clock the Davidson glee club and orchestra
presented its second program of the year over
station WBT of Charlotte. The program
began at 7 o'clock, and was interrupted for
fifteen minutes by the National Broadcasting
program, but was resumed at 7:30 and con-
tinued until 8 ’clock.

Besides several selections by the glee club
the orchestra played a few popular numbers
and a solo was sung by George Pardington.
A feature of the program was a comedy
sketch by Joe McCall and Bruce “Sugg” in
which they sung “Mississippi Mud’ and “A
Little Bit More.” They also told a very
amusing “bed time story” for the benefit of
the boys back at Davidson.

The following is the program which was
given:

1. Every Day Away from You—Sunnyland
‘Serenaders.

2. Vagabond Lover — Sunnyland Serena-
ders.

3. College Ties—Glee Club.
4. Creations Style—Beethoven—Glee Club.

5. Little Mother of Mine—George Pard-
ington.

6. Comedy Sketch—Joe McCall and Bruce
Sugg.

7. Winter Song—Bullard—Glee Club.
8. Miss Lucindy—Glee Club.

9, The Sand Man—Wildcat Quartet.
10. Satisfied—Sunnyland Serenaders.
11. Oh Davidson—Glee Club.

Plans are being formed for making direct
connections between the station in Charlotte
and the college making it possible for pro-
grams to be. broadcast directly from the
main auditorium of Chambers.

Many telegrams were received from alumni
and friends of the college, and numerous
phone calls came in from various sections
complimenting the College on its program.

The Davidson College Orchestra will
broadcast on next Tuesday night, December

17, from seven to eight o'clock, from station
WBT.

“Y” to Give Banquet
For Freshman Class

The Freshman Class will be guests at a
banquet and Christmas party given them
Monday evening; December 16 by the Y. M.
C. A. in conjunction with the college ad-
ministration. The affair will be held in the
banquet hall of Chambers Building and will
begin promptly at eight-thirty o'clock. A
program of many attractive features has been
arranged, and it is felt by those in charge
that the entire evening will be a new and
pleasurable experience in the social life of
Davidson.

It is the purpose of the Y. M. C. A. in its
field» of -Freshman~work to set.a--precedent
with this year’s banquet, so that in years to
come the Christmas Banquet for first year
men will be an institution. The plan is to
weld the class as a body more closely to
Davidson by providing this occasion for
real fellowship and display of college spirit.
Christmas-tide seems to be the logical time
for the banquet, since a meeting of this na-
ture coming just before the journey home for
the holidays will no doubt leave a great
feeling of attraction for the college and for
the students, and will give the participants
something of definite college spirit to keep
in. their thoughts.

The whole “Y” Cabinet is lending aid to
the particular department of Freshman Work,
headed by Zeb Long, and the various com-
mittees for social work in the college faculty
are in full co-operation with the project.

BY JUNIORS

Evening Entertainment in Cham-
ber’s Auditorium to Feature
Greensboro College Glee
Club

As an act of initiating the holiday festivity
period with a program conveying the Yule-
tide spirit, the Junior class of Davidson Col-
lege has elected itself as host to the rest of
the entire student body in making elaborate
preparations for a brilliant Christmas week-
end House-party, to be given on Saturday,
December 14.

C. H. “Dan” Goodykoontz, president of the
Junior class, and chairman of the committee
arranging the entertainment plans, is asking
the co-operation of every man in making this

(party a success.

“May I urge everyone to make plans to
attend this festival. We are hoping to make
it an interesting one, and IT wish to make
an appeal to every student to invite his girl
and to be present at every phase of the
program, which we hope to have made re-
plete with enjoyment in every respect,” he
said.

President Goodykoontz also announced
that the party will start with an entertain-
ment, scheduled for Saturday afternoon, but
not fully decided upon.

At 7 p. m,, the evening ceremonies will
begin with a performance to be given by
the Greensboro College for Women Glee
Club, in the auditorium of Chambers build-
ing. Following this diverting entertainment,
the audience will immediately convene in
front of the building at the Christmas tree,
where “Santa Claus” will bestow upon each
young woman, a Yule gift.

The program ‘will concluded with a
reception for the guests at the “Y” Social
Center, at which time refreshments will be
served and more entertainment offered, Mr.
Goodykoontz explained.

Walter Fraley, F. M. Pridgen, R. M. King,
and R. W. McCullough, all Juniors, are as-
sisting the chairman in preparing for the
forthcoming party.

be

Football Schedule
Announced | For 1930

At a meeting of the Athletic Council on
last Monday afternoon, the football schedule
for 1930 was announced and approved. With
the exception of one date, October 4, the
schedule is complete. This game on October
4 will be played on Richardson Field against
a team of Davidson's own class.

It will be noticed that there are five South-
ern Conference teams and five smaller teams
on the schedule. Four of these games will be
played on Richardson Field, two in Char-
lotte, and four at places farther away from
the campus. Moreover, there is a slight pos-
sibility that Carolina will again come to
Davidson for the third consecutive year to
make five home games.

The 1930 schedule follows :

September 20—Elon, here.

September 28—N. C. State, Greensboro.

October 4—Pending, here.

October: 11—Duke, Durham.

October 18—Citadel, Charlotte.

October 25—V. P. I., here.

November 1—V. M. I., Lexington.

November 8—Wofford, here.

November 15—U. N. C., Chapel Hill.

November 29—Wake Forest, Charlotte.

Phi Beta Kappa Men
Honored At Banquet

Immediately following the Phi Beta Kappa
lecture on last Friday! evening, December 6,
a most delightful banquet was given in the
banquet hall of Chambers in honor of the
new men who were elected to this honor
society. There were thirty-five other guests
attending the banquet including members of
the faculty, their wives, and several others,
among whom was Doctor McGlothlin who
delivered. the lecture which preceded the
banquet. :

Professor Erwin acted as toast master and
short talks were made by Dr. J. W. Mac-

N. C. Gamma of Phi
Beta Kappa Takes
In Eight New Men

Dr. McGothlin, President of Furman
University, Delivers Feature
Address on “Vital
Scholarship”

On Friday, December 6, Gamma Chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual public
initiation rites in the auditorium of New
Chambers. It was also the occasion of the
153rd anniversary of Phi Beta Kappa, which
was organized in 1776 at the college of Wil-
liam and Mary.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell, of Davidson, open-
ed the ceremony with a brief outline of the
history of Phi Beta Kappa and also of N. °C.
Gamma Chapter.

Prof. K. J. Foreman then introduced the
four senior§ and four alumni to whom bids
had been issued. Those received into Gamma
Chapters were: Frank R. Brown, A. T.
Edelman, J. B. Knox, and E. E. Marsh of
the Class of 1930; the Rev. Frank Price,
U. S. Alexander, Prof. G. W. Gigniliatt, and
Rev. Norman Johnson of the Class of 1915.

Doctor MacConnell next introduced Dr.
W. J. McGothlin, President of Furman Uni-
versity, and one of the great educators of
the South,

Doctor MeGothlin chose as the subject of
his address “Vital Scholarship.” In beginning
his address Doctor McGothlin paid quite a
tribute to Davidson, although this was his

first visit on Davidson's campus. “Davidson
is known as a strong, manly, and aggressive
institution. Davidson is recognized as a cul-
tural College. I congratulate her.”

Doctor MeGothlin lamented the — fact
that in a growing democracy, culture is giv-
ing way to materialism in all classes. “Men
and women go to college not to secure cul-
ture but to receive instructions in all voca-
tions. From one side, culture seems to be
fleeing ; from the other side it indicates great
rise, among the masses.” He also deplored
that many are on the campuses of American
colleges only to enjoy the life and “prestige”
which a college gives; yet the leadership of
the nation of tomorrow is on the campuses
of the universities and colleges of America.
“Perhaps,” he continued, “cultural colleges
may be.on the eve of a great revival and
expansion, for today men in all lines of work
are demanding graduates of cultural
leges rather than specialized students.”

“Our age has an undue number of critics.
And,” said Doctor McGothlin, “we should
let all research men have our sympathy, as
they suddenly might find something of vast
importance.”

In concluding his Doctor Mc-
Gothlin returned to Phi. Beta Kappa men.
“They should have the disposition to ap-
preciate the beauty and the truth. Phi Beta
Kappa men face great responsibility in their
leadership of men.”

Before the address of Doctor McGothlin
a violin solo. was given by Horace Erwin,
accompanied at the piano by Paul Fry.

col-

address

Professor Davis
Receives Degree

' Prof. J. H. Davis, of the local Biology
Department, passed the examination for his
Ph.D. degree at the University of Chicago
last Saturday. He has been absent on leave
for the purpose of standing this final test.
Professor Davis received his degree at the
fall term convocation held at the University,
December 10, and hence will return to David-
son a full-fledged doctor of philosophy in
Biology.

Last summer, Professor Davis spent the
school session’ in study at Chicago Univer-
sity, and before the period was ended, had
assumed a position as instructor in one of the
departments there. Much of his preparation
for the degree was made: at this university
during the past two years. Professor Davis
is a graduate of Davidson in the class of
1924,

Connell, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gignilliat, Mr.
Frank Brown, and Mr. Alexander.

Mrs. E. W. Kimbrell was hostess of the
banquet. :

Nineteen Letters Given

To Varsity Football Men
For Past Season’s Work

McLean and Jonas Elected Varsity
and Freshman Manager Respec-
tively for Next Year

Nineteen varsity letters were awarded last
week by the Davidson College Athletic As-
sociation. The nineteen letters included six-
teen which were given to regular playing
members of the squad, one service letter for
three years service on the squad, one letter
to the varsity manager, and a minor letter
to the Freshmen manager. Of the
varsity letters awarded, five were given to
Seniors, six to Juniors, and five went to the
Sophomore Class. This leaves the 'Cats with
eleven letter men back for next year.

sixteen

At a recent meeting of the football letter-
men, Walter Fraley was elected captain of
the 1930 Davidson Wildeat football team,
and “Hub” Covington was elected alternate
captain, At the same time Archie McLean
was named varsity football manager, while
Jas. A. Jones was appointed Freshman man-
ager for next year. Fraley calls the signals
for the Wildcats on the offense and backs
up the line when,on the defense. The Barium
Springs boy is not of the flashy type of player
butis highly consistent at all times. Fraley
ran the team in fine style all season and his
work in diagnosing plays and plugging up
holes that might opgn in the forward wall
was of the highest order. “Hub” Covington,
regular tackle, and alternate captain, was
one of the mainstays of Tex Tilson's fighting
line.

Those receiving the varsity letters were:
Capt. Thad Brock, Barium Springs; Steve
Brown, Mt. Ulla, and Jim Proctor, Lincoln-
ton, ends; Borneo Baker, Stoney Point, Bud
Raker, Lexington, and “Hub” Covington,
Red Springs, tackles; A. L. DeCamp, Boon-
town, N. J., Lad Mills, Greenville, S. C.,
and Doc Mathis, Rural Hall, Guards; Bill
Mason, Kings Mountain, and Wilbur Milton,
Thomasville, Ga., Centers; Walter Fraley,
Barium Springs, Quarterback; Red Parrish,
Badin, Tom Brohard, Grafton, W. Va., and
Joe McCall, Salisbury, Halfbacks; and Don
King, Bristol, Tenn., Fullback.

Murray Christian, Mobile, Ala.,
awarded a service letter; E. C. Close, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn., was given a varsity letter
as manager, and S. Y. Cassells, of Mont-

was

gomery, Ala., was awarded a minor letter as
freshman manager.

Y. M.C. A. to Offer
Christmas Theme

According to an old Davidson custom, the
“Y" uses a Christmas theme for its Sunday
night vesper service just before the students
leave for the holidays. This is planned to be
the most beautiful program of the year with
its primary view of spreading over’ the
campus the true Christmas spirit, that during
this season the Christ came into the world.
It will be entirely a worship program with
no speaker, but an impressive devotional
service. Much special music will be used
including the Glee Club, which will render
several Christmas songs; and a brass quar-
tette, which will also add to the interest of
the service.

It has been customary for the Davidson
students to attend this vesper service enmasse
and this year it should be of special interest,
because this is the first Christmas service
to be held in New Chambers.

This is the one Christmas service held in
Davidson for the college sturlents principally.
Much effort has been spent in making this
program interesting as well as constructive
and it is urged that all boys make especial
effort to attend. The townspeople are invited
to join in this service and it is hoped that
many of them can be there.

WILDCATS VS. CATAWBA
INDIANS

Students will have their first oppor-
tunity of seeing Monk Younger’s varsity
basketeers in action next Tutsday night
at the local gymn when the Wildcats meet

(Continued on page 4)
