‘ l
CLEMSON | INDEPENDENCE
VERSUS 2 | PARK
DAVIDSON SATURDAY
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
L
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 26, 1929 No. 2

Davidson Cats to: Battle Clemson
Tigers In New Central High Stadium

At Charlotte Saturday Afternoon

Old Foe Proves Much Heavier in
Line Than Red and Black
Machine

GAME CALLED 3 O’CLOCK

Clemson Has Edge of Eight to Five
in Past Victories

Saturday afternoon in Charlotte the David-
son Wildcat will meet the Clemson Tiger
for the seventeenth time in thirty years of
athletic relations on the gridiron. Of the
sixteen games between the two teams Clem-
son has eight victories to its credit as against
five for Davidson. Three of the contests have
been ties. Two hundred and forty-eight points
have been scored in these games, 150 for
Clemson, 98 for Davidson. With two excep-
tions all games between the two schools
have resulted in close scores. Not counting
the contest of 1900, won by the Tigers 64-0,
and the 1916 tilt, which the Wildcats won
33-0, the total scores are Clemson 86, David-
son 65, a margin of 21 points for Clemson in
14 contests or 1.5 points per game.

Since 1918 the two teams have clashed
five times, Clemson being the victor, with the
exception of the 1924 game won by Davidson
7-0. During this period the greatest score
for the South Carolinians was 12-0 in 1923,
all other contests having been won by a
single touchdown. Last year’s score was 6-0,
in favor of Clemson, the touchdown being
made by the overhead route. Results of all
contests played between the two elevenes are
as folows:

Year Clemson Davidson
LOI" es ee a Sue FS 10 0
1900 eee ola 64 0
1906 FS ete se 2s 8 0 0
Dy fae ee es ebee aerate 6 10
1908 os s50 sce cS 0 13
LOO Erie is a 12 was 17 5
MO eee ee 6 3
101g See eee eee 0 0
1M SGC ees oat es 6 6
NQIG  eoeee stoke Soaks 0 33
LOU Seek Sauer 9 21
ADI See aos oes» 7 0
1 Ch ee ee ee re 7 0
NOG vis cea ee 12 0
1 Oe 7.7 ase aay tampa eg ee 0 7
1928 eee Bee ee See 6 0
MoOtalsswees: fe 150 98

The increase in Wildcat strength this
season is nothing compared to that of Clem-
son, but performances of the past will be
before the eyes of Davidson players and
they are expected to display their best brand
of football so far for this season. Probable
line-ups and weights of the Davidson and
Clemson squad follow:

Clemson Position Weight
Woodruff ~-------- L.E. 170
Collins osece 3 J bei8 be 204
Gunnels ~---------- L.G. 198
Gresham --..-----. Gs 183
Mag coe too eo R.G. 172
Swofford --..------ R.T. 216.
HONes Meow este oe R.E. 181
Padgett (Capt.) ---Q.B. 172
Justis eae ose L.H. 157
McMillan ---_----- R.H. 158
McCarley ~--------- F.B. 175

(Continued on Page. 2)

Junior ‘Assistants
to Heefner Chosen

In the final and only tabulation of votes
for assistant cheer leaders, G. E. McClen-
aghan and H. A. McAllister were chosen
to be the two Juniors who will assist Ned
Heefner with the cheer leading.

There were only four men put before the
student body for consideration. Last spring,
seven men of the Sophomore Class were out
at the baseball- games assisting Heefner. This
year some did not return to school and some
men found it necessary to quit, leaving only
four Juniors in the running, McClenaghan,
McAllister, McClure, and Hunter. The elec-
tion of the two men was by a large major-
ity over the other two. There were about
four hundred ballots cast.

Despite the fact that the two new assist-
ants have not had much experience in cheer
leading before coming to college, they have
shown themselves to be reasonably competent
in the tryouts, held last spring when base-
ball started. During baseball season, during
the pep meetings this fall, and during the
football game with Elon last Saturday, the
four men were given a chance to display their
ability before the student body. Ned Heefner,
varsity cheer leader, has acted as coach to

(Continued on Page 2)

Gammon Cites Paul
At Vesper Service

Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myers
Park .Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte,
N. C., gave a very interesting and profit-
able talk at “Y” Vespers last Sunday, sug-
gesting how a man should plan his life in
order to look back on it in later years with
satisfaction. Ned Heefner had charge of the
service. George Pardington and Murray
Christian helped with the music. And J. W.
McCutchan and-R. G.--Russell_led_in_prayer.

Paul who probably had more influence on
the world than any other human man would
make a fine puttern for any man to follow,
said Dr. Gammon. Paul’s life was planned by
God as everyman’s is but he carried out
that plan. Dr. Gammon cautioned against
being influenced to too great an extent by
the unusual premium placed on the ministry
at Davidson. But he stressed the importance
of each man determining within himself to
be the best Christian possible.

A definite purpose is absolutely necessary
for succes in any life. Daniel became an out-
standing leader in his day and has been uni-
versally admired ever since because he pur-
posed in his heart that he would not defile
himself. There are many temptations even
at Davidson. A man must have a strong
Christian purpose to overcome them.

One of the most important things a man
can learn at college is to evaluate things
according to their real worth. Some men
emphasize athletics too much, some campus
activities, others the social life, and others
their studies. All these heads are important
and should be included in a well rounded
education each in its proper place. A man

(Continued on Page 2)

TueE Davipsonian,
Davison, N, C.

Dear Sir:

SUBSCRIPTION BLANK

Earnest H. McCatt, Business Manager

Enclosed you will find check for $2.00 for one year’s subscription
to The Davidsonian, weekly publication.

Yours truly,

Pessimistic Monk

Coach “Monk” Younger, who will send
his Wildcats against the Clemson Tigers,
on Saturday.

Enlargements Made in
Physical Training Work

Officials Extended Courses to All
Classes—Examinations Are
Increased

Two outstanding changes have been made
in the physical education department of Dav-
idson College this year which will extend
its work to every student for the full four
year session, according to Dr. J. W. Mac-
Connell, college physician.

Until this fall only freshmen were required
to undergo a thorough physical examination,
but a new one is now required every year.
With Doctor MacConnell in charge, the en-
tire student body has been examined. The
work began Friday, September 13, with the
freshmen being take first and the rest of the
classes in order.

After the examination by Dr. MacConnell
the students were subjected to another one
under Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of
athletics. This was not as rigid, however, and
was designed to obtain the measurements of
the students, so that proper physical exer-
cises can be prescribed for any defective part
of the body. ~

The officials have adopted a chart for the
students, which can be used during the four-
year term, one side being devoted to Dr.

(Continued on Page 2)

Gaffney and Smith to
Manage College Store

This year the management of the College
Student's Store will be under the direction of
W. F. Gaffney and E. W. Smith, Jr., as-
sisted by DeCamp, J. L. Smith, Lafferty,
Pettus, Hall, Pritchett, and McInnis.

The store is to be conducted under a
slightly different plan from the one used
last year, in that prices on many articles
have been reduced, and many changes in
general have been affected for the conven-
ience of the Student Body. The stock carried
is practically the same as that of last year,
and consists of most of the slighter neces-
sities and luxuries adapted to the college
student. It is the purpose of the management
to retain the “honor, system” in selecting and
paying for goods.

Last year a considerable profit was re-
ported, and the sum total for the net profits
of the last seven years amount to $7,500.00
All profits from this source go into a fund
which is to be used in building a swimming
pool on the campus. It is expected that if
the co-operation of the Student Body con-
tinues,’ the necessary sum willl soon be ac-
quired.

Walker Will Speak
in Y.M.C.A | Program

The YMCA has obtained a very fine group
of speakers fot “Y” Vespers throughout the
month of October. Among those to be pre-
sented to the Student-Body in the near future
will be Rev. Joe Walker, pastor of the Pres-
byterian Church, at Raleigh, Dr. George
Bateman, of Asheville, Dr. Luther Little, of
Charlotte, Dr. James Fowle, of Chattanooga,
and Dr, Frank C. Brown, of Charleston, W.
Va. The “Y” is embarking on a somewhat
new policy this year by making efforts to
get men from denominations other than
Presbyterian to come to Davidson, thus
bringng new faces to the campus.

First of this group to be presented will
be the Rev. Joe Walker, who comes to us
for the Vesper Service of September 29. Mr.
Walker is a young man, whose message
should appeal to the college student. He grad-
uated from Davidson in the Class of ’27, at-
tended Union Theologiral Seminary at Rirh-
mond and later returned here to take his M.
A. As pastor of the Presbyterian Church at
Raleigh he is in close touch it college
life, speaking frequently before the students
at N. C. State. His message should have a

decided appeal for every man on the campus.

New Faculty Muiliers

Assume Regular Duties

Several new additions to the faculty of
Davidson have been made for the coming
year. One professor has returned from a
leave of absence while the others are start-

ing their first year at Davidson. Dr: Walter
L. Lingle, new President, heads the list.

James N. Truesdale, who is from Rock
Hill, S. C, is a new assistant professor in
‘Greek and German. He reccived an M.A.
degree from Duke University when he grad-
uated in June, 1929,

W. R. Weaver, of the class of 1929, of
Davidson, is substituting for Prof. F. L.
Blythe, who is studying in Spain. Weaver is
from Hickory, N. C.

James T. Kerr is instructing in chemistry.
He completed his work at Davidson in Feb-
ruary, 1929. Wilmington, N. C., is his home.

Capt. W. L. Blanton is ‘a new instructor
in Military Science and Tactics. He was
transferred to Davidson from the Hawaiian
Islands. .

Miss Julia Pasmore, of Cary, N. C., is to
assist Miss Shaw in the Library. She is a
recent graduate of Drexel Institute of Phil-
adelphia where she obtained her degree in
library work. She also has received a diplo-
ma from North Carolina College for Women
at Greensboro and later she was awarded
her A.B. at the University of North Carolina.

Prof. Lewis B. Schenk, after a year’s study
at Yale University, has returned to David-
son to assume his duties as an Associate
Professor in Mathematics and Bible. He is a

graduate of Davidson College.
COIGVUOTOTONOTOM —

Cadet Officers Appointed For Year
‘As Reserve Officers Training Corps
Commences Initial Batallion Drill

Freshmen Will Have Two Special
Drills Each Week to Provide
Physical Exercise

PARADE ON OCTOBER 23

First Formation Held in Chambers
Auditorium on Opening Day of
School

The first R.O.T.C. formation of the cur-
rent year was held on September 12 in the
Auditorium of the New Chambers Building.
At this time all Freshmen and Sophomores,
unless physically disabled were present as
were all Juniors and Seniors who are taking
the advanced course. The companies were
divided according to the alphabetical order
and the officers of the different companies
were introduced to their men.

Battalion drills will be held on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Friday and the Freshmen
will have a special drill two days each week.
The purpose of this drill is to provide phy-
sical exercise to build up and strengthen
the body, During the first five months of
school setting up exercises and mass games
will be played and after the Freshmen have
become accustomed to this more strenuous
exercise and drills will be used.

The rfist Battalion parade will take place
on the Freshman Field on Wednesday after-
noon, October 23, at 3:05 p. m.

Appointments of the officers for the Batta-
lion have been issued as follows:

Cadet Major: W. R. Hill.

Cadet Captains: L, L. Boyd, Company
“B"”: FE. W. Johnston, Company “A”; W. B.
McGuire, Company “C’; W. H. White,
Company “D”; C. C. Orr, Band; S. L.
Gant, Adjutant; J. L. Brown, Personnel Ad-
jutant.

Cadet First Lieutenants: Company “A,”
W. R. Morrison, L. A. Mills, W. F. Gaff-
ney; Company “B,” L. C. Roberts, E. B.
Wilkerson, C. A. Ritchie; Company “C,”
A. M. Calhoun, W. W. Harrison, C. P.
Greyer, D. C. Hunter; Company “D,” D.
K. Miller, E. E, Marsh.

Cadet Second Lieutenants: Company “A,”
F. S. Erwin, E. C. Close, W. A. Sutton;
Company “B,” E. H. McCall, D. J. Black,
Rt. Turner; Company “C,” G. L. Gladstone,
W. J. Beavers, W. B. Buckner; Company
“D,” R. D. Croom, A. T. Edleman, C. H.
DuBose.

Cadet ‘First Sergeants: Company “A,” A.
R. Bird; Company “B,” D. Rusk; Company
“C,” T. Brock; Company “D,” S. S. Wiley ;
Band, J. L. Hall.

Cadet Battalion Sergeant Major: J. &
Meachem.

Cadet Sergeants: Company “A,” H. S.

(Continued on Page 2)

Faculty to Honor
President Tonight

Tonight at 7:45 o'clock The Quadwrang-
ler’s Club, organization ofthe college faculty
members, will entertain Dr. and Mrs. Wal-
ter L. Lingle, at an informal reception. The
wives of the “Quadwranglers” will assist in
the. entertainment. The reception is to take

(Continued on page 2)

sot

other states.

his power.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

October 3 is the date upon which the executive committee of the faculty will
decide which students or alumni of Davidson College may compete for the
Rhodes Scholarship in the various states as candidates representing this college.
Elections will be held in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mis-
sissippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, West Virginia and

The Rhodes Scholarship is the largest scholarship open to graduates any-
where. It pays four hundred pounds or nearly two thousand dollars a year. Only
alumni or seniors whose class and extra curricula records are strong should
apply. Requests (in writing) for the endorsement of
must be in the hands of Dr. G. R. Vowles on or before five o'clock of October
3. Dr. Vowles will be glad to furnish information or to render

executive committee

any assistance in
: t

ser
