~

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
Mc L i

EDITORIAL STAFF

B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN. Managing Editor
OVP RAGING si ettuscccccc.esadcc sca seesaes Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
. F. PRESTON. Feature Editor
. L. BROWN . pares: ---Feature Editor
. F. JARRATT. Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A i Editor
=—=——=>=>==————hamaa_—————————————
BUSINESS STAFF
. A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
3 L. (BOY Disicc2i-- 1: Subscription Mer,
. J. BAKER....__. Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY... Solicitor
. H. McKINNON. Solici
- O. MANNze.... Solici
. E. RUFF_ Solicitor
. L. SEVIER Solicitor
S———=—=="=aDBaBnaDBnBaBnD9nD9B9BR]RpE™=—  /-_—_—___
REPORTERS’ CLUB
E, S. HEEFNER ..._.__..____ i
W.  OSRINGIN Sage ce eeeeet Visa weaatiens
}: Af D,, MIDDLETON qancdaesnlugaleaal Secretary-Treasurer
Gia C. G. PEPPER
5 . MATTHEWS G, DUNKLIN
. G. MARTIN Ws. LEA
iB R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER
. O. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK
o pe NORRHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
N. B. DICRS G. P. PARDINGTON
SE

OCTOBER 31, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Expects to see the whole student b behi
that team Saturday, oi =

—Wants a victory over the Virginia Cadets to

make up for three consecutive lickings at their
hands.

—Hopes that Wildcat line will charge better than
it did last week,

—Believes that the coming of Dr. Sam Glasgow to

Davidson was a great inspiration to the entire
college.

—Thanks Dr. Glasgow for his wonderful mes-
sages,

—Reminds you of the dedicatory service for the
mew organ tomorrow evening.

—Also reminds you that Home-Coming Day is just
around the corner.

—Serves notice that the freshman game tomorrow
will be a thriller,

—Wishes the best of luck and great
the little Cats. ,

success to

THE SAME OLD PROBLEM

The recent newspaper flaré wherein the
findings of Carnegie Tech’s committee on
athletics were set before the public created
a great deal of favorable comment. Nobody
can deny that the work of such a committee
1s worthwhile, for the very fact that it un-
dertakes to survey a rather impossible field
and succeeds to some extent is fairly good
credit: for the committee, and then, too,
nearly everybody, whether they will admit
it or not, realizes that the field of intercol-
legiate competition has long been stained
with something other than the cleat marks
of “college boys” who were out to give their
all for “dear old Pelham.” It is good to see
that some body of authority has the courage
‘to come into the open and attack the present
system 6f “stock market” football, even if
the attack is too mild and too narrow in its
swath. Continued attack may serve to wake
up some factions of the sport-loving public,
and to show them that the oldtime “ray-
ray” has changed to “pay-pay” and the fran-
tic waving of college pennants to the equal-
ly frantic waving of dollar bills, often in
the hands of college officials, more often,
perhaps, in the hands of victory mad alumni.

The price of victory has ever been a great
one, but to the small college of today it is
fast becoming an impossible one. The world
outside, and sometimes the collegé within,
knows nothing of the continuous battle to
procure athletes. The fact that much of the
activity rests in the hands of college alumni
helps to shield the real truth in many in-
stances, and makes the problem one which
grows ever more tangled. Most people ab-
hor the idea of “paying athletes” as that
term is generally considered. Yet, when you
come down to it, an alumnus can-hardly be
blamed for taking enough interest in his
college’s success to take some boy and send
him to school there in order to promote the

iathletic status of the institution, Certainly

the boy is not be blamed for accepting
the offer which enables him to go prac-
tically free. In the face of the present trend
in college athletics, the school which is able
to maintain its “honorable” policy, and to
adhere strictly to amateur rules is indeed a
wonder in the world. Yet the apparent
triumph of ideal over practice is one which
will bring only consolation of doubtful type
to the college and to its supporters, for the
hue and cry today is “A winning football
team—the best advertisement for your col-
lege.” Yes, the price of victory has reached
the sky. Is there any limjt? :
Carnegie Tech touched the surface of the
matter. That is all. And that will remain the
extent of official knowledge. The problem
has woven itself into the whole fabric of
college life today, and there seems to be no
limit. Statements continue to pour out from
the offices of college presidents upholding
the athletic purity of their institution, but
the man who watches football year in and
year out has learned to take these state-
ments with a large grain of salt, and he sits
in the stands, watches his team go down to
defeat, and mutters to himself: “If I had
the money, I’d certainly send that coach a
football team.” The fabled college with the
team made up of hard fighting youngsters,
who studied books more than they studied
cross-backs and forward passes has become
the exception rather than the rule, hasn’t it?

FREE ADMISSION

The movement begun sometime ago by
several colleges of the state to bring about
the free admission of students to all athletic
contests between these colleges seems to
have quieted down a little. The original
plan was to form an alliance between the
so-called “Big Five” colleges of this state,
get the athletic associations of these schools
to co-operate in admitting students free,
and so increase support for the teams and
promote student interest in intercollegiate
athletics.

It is unlikely that anything definite can
be done this year. Time has shown that such
matters usually lie on the table for some
time, while the red tape is unraveled. How-
ever, there is hope that the idea will find
realization in the future, and most of the

‘activity now consists in moulding student

opinion in the desired direction. If a demand
for this step should come from the students
at the various colleges along with an as-
surance from them that it would mean bet-
ter backing for their teams, it is hard to
see how athletic authorities could turn the
proposition down. We believe that the
movement is a worthy one and hope that
effective steps can be taken within the next
few months. :
Incidentally, it would be a fine thing for
the student governments of state schools
to co-operate on the matter ‘under discus-
sion, not only because of its immediate value
to the students, but because the foundation
for better understanding and more profit-
able associations among colleges and college
men at large would probably be laid. A lot
remains to be done before the proper spirit
exists in the relationships between colleges.
Only through meeting on common ground
and working out mutual problems can an
ideal condition of fellowship be approached.

VALUE IN A SHEEPSKIN?

Can a college education be exchanged for
cash? Harold Forian Clark, of Columbia
University, has answered the question by a
brief and emphatic “No!” In a report based
on nearly a year’s stdy this young investi-
gator of the economics of education, who
has been studying the relation between
“higher education and the average Ameri-
can’s earning power,” asserts that “you
cannot train $100,000 for 90,000 jobs without
creating pressure to decrease the remuner-
ation of the 90,000.) The persons who are
earning high wages today would have made
them without the help of education, Dr.
Clark declares. Dr. Clark also says that
schooling has tremenduous powers of di-
recting people into channels other than the
most productive ones.

It is very probable that Dr. Clark’s con-
clusions are correct. If, however, he is cast-

‘ing blame upon the educational institutions

for directing persons into work which is not
financially productive, he is equally wrong.
Neither a sheepskin nor financial security
is the end of education; the aim of educa-
tion must.always be to teach the individual
to live the richest and fullest life possible,
to teach him the art of appreciation. Having
learned these things, the university student
who turns out to be a-financial failure is by
no means a failure demanding the world’s
pity. He may, in many cases, be the person
who is to be envied.—Daily Kansan.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Never before has the stock market collapsed as
suddenly or as completely as it has in the past
week. Huge sums, aggregating hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars, have been lost. Many members of
society's “four hundred” have blushed; and then
to scurry away from fashionable resorts and water-
ing places. Many lambs have been fleeced; many
wolves have grown fat. American citizens should
be thanked that there is a Federal Reserve Sys-
tem. If you have forgotten who conceived the idea
for the treasury mechanism of the United States,
look at his picture the next time you have a new
ten dollar bill. If ever!!

There is mutiny in the ranks! This an-
nouncement was recently broadcast from Sal-
vation Army headquarters in London. There
is no organization in the world more efficient
than a well-officered military force. But, au-
thorities have ever lamented the occasional
union of Church and State. There must be
doubt as to the success attendant upon a char-
ijatable and evangelistic body which operates in
the form of an intricate military force. Few
people can be promoted to any position with
speed, in whatever group it may be, and still
be expected to function with anticipated zeal.
The biggest man gets to the top slowly. (In
more ways than one).

Attention must be called to a recent editorial in
The Charlotte Observer, in which that editor suc-
cessfully and roundly scored the reports of Com-
munists’ press organs, in connection with the re-
cent strike disturbance in Gaston County. These
papers asserted that sectional prejudice was ex-
ercised in that all Southern men involved were
acquitted or lightly sentenced, while Northern
agitators received sentences ranging from ten to
twenty years in length. Fun was made of the
Southern bar, and most serious, of Southern jus-
tice. It was aptly pointed out that the men re-
ceiving the longest terms, were those men against
whom the evidence was most incriminating. Jus-
tice was rendered!

(en)
' Communism may or may not have its ad-
vantages, but sectional feeling has no place in
a united democracy. Lee's veteran’s will live
forever in the hearts of their descendants. The
memory of the Grand Army of the Republic
will likewise endure. But even the most radical
must pause before tearing asunder the Union
which was consummated only by the blood of
the “maiores.”

If there are those subscribers, in the corpora-
tion of DuBose and.DuBose, who dubiously follow
the conquests of Tarzan of the Apes, let them
hestitate. Comparatively recently has man_ in-
dulged in howls of fiendish delight at blood-shed.
In September, 1901, there occurred at Balangiga,
Philippine Islands, one of the bloodiest massacres
of all times. Pursuing in the administration’s at-
tempt to subjugate, “peacefully,” these primitive
people, Company’C took its post at this out-of-the-
way point. Without warning a superior force of
natives attacked the white troops. Only by hard
fighting, were a few survivors able to make their
way to safety. Howling bolomen sprang from the
brush with terrifying screams. One well directed
blgw- and a head fell cleanly from the shoulders
of the victim. (Let the strong-hearted interview
Sergeant Kirby. He can show them a bolo.) Peace
treaties have little influence over the primitive in-
stincts of freedom.

There have been famous humorists. Such
names as Bill Nye, whose practical wit once
cost a magician friend over ten thousand dol-
lars, George Ade, Mark Twain, Jess Pugh, and
many others should be included in the list.
However, without a doubt, Will Rogers, the
Texas Steer, leads the Western Hemisphere.
All who read his comments or see his pictures
are impressed with his genuine laugh-arousing
qualities. At times his statements are too pa-

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

When this paper comes out, if ever, the eere
night of Hallowe’en will probably be a thing of the
past. In fact, it will doubtless be safely in the past
to the extent of three or four days when the post-
master finally socks the old Davidsonian in our
mail boxes, unless, of course, a miracle enables the
College Consternation to pull in on time Thurs-
day.

However, we might as well leave this realm of
the impossible and delve into the merely super-
natural. Hallowe’en is a wonderful opportunity for
all morons and other types of practical jokers to
limber up and indulge in such forms of good,
clean, wholesome sport as putting ground glass in
pore, innocent, lil’ biddies’ chickie feed, mixing
concrete in Grandpa’s mush, or leaving out the
egg in the dish of spinach. But this old world is
just naturally becoming too civilized to pull a
real, speedy celebration for this night when
witches, goblets, and ellufs wander abroad. It’s
too hard nowadays to find a horse or a cow to
hoist up on your prospective victim’s room, and
as for taking the wheels off-of some poor, old
soul’s automobile—have you ever changed a tire?
Yes it is too much trouble. Of course, there are
real good Hallowe’en stunts that our forefathers
never dreamed of that we can pull now such as
putting firecrackers in Papa’s radio or sawing the
wings of Uncle Uriah’s airplane in half. Yea,
verily, children, Hallowe’en will flourish with a
deafening crash as long as mankind can get a
laugh out of the sight of a portly gentleman slip-
ping on a banana peel and sitting suddenly, violent-
ly, and painfully on the cold, hard pavement.

When you try to explain ‘Hallowe’en to Fresh-
men and other little tots, you find yourself flound-
ering about in deep water. It’s easy enought to
fasten the annual gifts of violet and violent socks
and ties on Sandy Claws, but it’s a roadster of a
different Duco when you try to blame a few in-
offensive little witches, giants, and gobhoblins for
an artistically decorated campus; the presence of
a wild assortment of glue, syrup, feathers, snakes,
phonograph needles, etc., etc., in your bed; and
the discovery of homesick cattle in your room
which is obviously not their element.

Well, I think that I’ve run the Hallowe’en idea
in the ground just about as far as I can. Now for
something hot. Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy!
How about the great Davidson fire of last Sunday?

WUXTRY! WUXTRY! WUXTRY!
CHURCH SERVICE DESTROYED BY FIRE
(Associated Pest).—In the midst of the church

service of Sabbath last, the announcement “a
house is on fire as quick as you can’!” was made.

. Immediately, the student body endangered their

souls by bidding the church a fond and furious
farewell, rushing madly to’ the fire-house, sliding
down the pole, and dashing off in a cloud of dust
in search of the gleam. “Don’t spare the horses”
was their battle-cry as they sold out while the
crowd roared. It’s needless to say that there wasn’t
any more fire as a jack-rabbit. Then to make
matters still worse, the far-famed siren of which
so much was expected imitated a baby, a radio, a
Yo-Yo, or what have you, and refused to show off.
In fact, it made just about as much noise as the
whisper of a deaf mute who has bronchitis and a
mouth full of milk toast. This was the last straw
that crushed the Davidson spirit, and the stunned
students settled back into the usual Sunday after-
noon coma.

You’ve probably heard our Charlotte boys tell
what a lively place Charlotte is. Yes it is a lively
city. Why only last week, a man dropped dead on
the Square and it was three days before his body
was found.

thetically true to be funny; refer to his usual
cracks on Congress. The greatest humorist is
the man who can move you to hysterical
laughter one minute, and transpose you to tears
the next. Rogers can do it:

to page seven, t

music in attractive garments, and
important line. Bob

posted on latest books, one of the club
view each week.

~ THE DAVIDSONIAN’S FEATURES

Again we urge the readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN to devote their attentj
students’ own page of features. We feel that contributions
real value are appearing there every week, columns and comments which are ex-
contann ly, peed for cmaae elected hope page gi Bote help apghiy the gap
ween ac news items and, we ho i to classi-
cal to you, will help to bridge the Cap betwen | is ee.5 Sena sf See

literature, and will tend to round out the makeup of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Horace Ervin gives you a weekly column on MUSIC. He clothes the history -of
Witt i Nene sal sei h his NOUVELLE AVAN
isa contributor wit T-
HIER, a romantic sketch of Davidson's past. The Book Review Club will keep you
members contributing a comprehensive re-

KIM’S KOLUMN comprises a survey of the world of sport, and is written in

the breezy fashion so to good sport writing. McCutchan,

Aldean Bid their weekly pean) oa world atetes world humor, and Davidson
thlet S feat ticl 1 il i ti Read

them all. We believe you will enjoy every one. : a 2 es '

een routine news and the world of

on campus activities along this

Ragin, and

+
