se | THE DAVID rome
SPARTANBURG i TERRIERS
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 3, 1929 No. 3

Frats Conclude Season With Ninety-Two Pledges

EXTENSIVE PREPARATIONS ARE BEING MADE F OR WEST POINT GAME

Davidson Aletiaiins P Plans to Write
Feature Story of Struggle for
Paper

TEAMS IN GOOD SHAPE

cree Wire to Bring Play-by-Play
Returns to Gymnasium

The following letter will prove of interest
both to students and faculty, because it
shows something of the spirit which remains
intact in all alumni of the colloge. Incidently,
the letter carries the promise of a real treat,
for Captain Mullen proposes to write a story
of the Davidson-Army game just as he
sees it. The account should be colorful and
attractive, and all readers of this paper will
probably await its appearance eagerly.

The student body voted last Tuesday
morning at the chapel period to support
Ernest Milton in his effort to get a play-
by-play return of the game from the play-
ing field at West Point. It is expected that
practically the entire student body will throng
the gymnasium on the afternoon of October
12 to receive the play-by-play reports.

Captain W. A. Dumas, of the class of
1915, has been making splendid arrange-
ments to receive and entertain the Wild-
cats at West Point. Captain Dumas is an
instructor at the military academy. W. P.
Anderson, 26 Beaver St., New York City,
Captain Dumas and Ernest Milton, the
Alumni Secretary here, have all been co-
operating to entertain nearly two hundred
alumni of Davidson at a great re-union on
the eve of the game.

Following is Captain Mullen’s letter :

Box 250, New York,
September 23, 1929,
The Editor,
“The Davidsonian,”
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Sir:

I have learned with a great deal of pleas-
(Continued on page 8)

Committee is Arranging
For Series of Lectures

Dr. Hamilton Holt is Sought as
Speaker

The faculty Committee on Lectures, repre-
sented by-Dr.- E. F. Shewmake, Chairman,
Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, and Prof. K. J. Fore-
man, is making an effort to acquire Hamilton
Holt, president of Rollins College in Florida
for a lecture. Doctor Holt plans a visit to
New York some time this month, and it is
stop off at Davidson en route.
the desire of the Committee to have him

Doctor Holt was formerly Editor of “The
Independent” and is at present one of the
executives of the Independent Publishing
Company. Rollins College, of which he is
president, is operated on the two-hour con-
ference plan, by which the students, are
required to spend two hours in class, one in
preparation, the other in conference with
attendant professors.

The general plan of the Committee, ac-
cording to Professor Shewmake, is to link
the lectures with the work in the different
departments of instruction. To that end° a

‘lecturer on Physics, one on Fine Arts, one
on Germany, and others on various subjects
will be engaged. Their names will be an-
nounced later.

One definite engagement has been effected,
with Mr. George Bucher for March 21. Mr.
‘Bucher will talk on the Romance of Ger-
many, including art, music, literature, and
other aspects of life in Germany. The lec-
ture will be illustrated by slides. More in-
formation about the subject will be released
before March 21.

Harper Loving Cup
Is Awarded to BKA

The Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity,
having made the highest average of any of
the nine national fraternities at Davidson
College, has been awarded the James C.
Harper loving cup for the coming year. The
members of this chapter averaged an even
87 per cent. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fol-

lowed closely with an average of 86.75 per
cent,

Other national fraternities. and their aver-
ages are: Kappa Alpha, 86.15; Theta Up-
silon Omega, 85.75; Phi Delta Theta, 85.25;
Beta Theta Pi, 85.20; Kappa Sigma, 84.70;
Pi Kappa Phi, 83.30; Phi Gamma _ Delta,
82.85. The Pyramid Club, being a local fra-
ternity “was ineligible for this competition,
averaged 85.10; Alpha Omega, a local fra-
ternity organized during the past year, was
not included in the averaging.

The James C. Harper loving cup was given
by James C. Harper, of the class of 1915, in
honor of his father and grandfather, and is
annually presented to the fraternity with the
highest scholastic average. If won three times
successively, it automatically becomes that
fraternity’s property, but no fraternity group
has been able to accomplish this since the
cup was offered.

Although the student body averages at
Davidson have not been compiled in late
years, it is believed that the general frater-
nity average of 85.1 per cent cent for all the
eleven social gruops on the campus would
be at least two points higher than the stud-
ent body average.

Several years ago the 600 Students aver-
aged between 82 and 83 per ‘cent and if this
has not been increased, it is evident that fra-
ternity life does not hamper the scholastic
work of the individual but rather enhances it.

Luther Little to
Speak at Vespers

Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First
Baptist Church of Charlotte, will speak at
the “Y” Vespers next Sunday evening. Doc-
tor Little is a speaker of merit, having at-
tained a world-wide reputation by his lec-
tures broadcast through WBT in Charlotte.

His lectures were first broadcast from this
station several years ago and have continued
every Sunday night -almost without inter-
ruption since. Incidently Dr. Little was the
first minister to regularly broadcast sermons
over the radio. In this field he acted as a
pioneer, and in his path has followed a mul-
titude.

In delivery he holds his audiences’ atten-
tion from beginning to end, and a wide ex-
perience gives him latitude in selecting in-
teresting topics and illustrations. .

(Continued on Page 2)

Library Schedule

Several important changes have been in-
augurated in the college library this year
which will be of interest to the students.
Three and one-half hours have been added
to the acual time the book deparment is open

each day. Closing time for the reading rooms |.

has been changed from eleven o'clock, as it
was last year, to nine o'clock. The book
department will not be open after six o’clock
on Saturdays.

A complete schelude of library hours is as
follows :
Reading Room—

9. A. M. to 9 P. M.—Weekdays.

(Continued on page 8)

’ Freshman Coach

Red Laird takes his yearlings to Oak
Ridge Friday for their first clash of the

Wildcats Meet Wofford

Terriers in Spartanburg

For Third Game of Year|

Twelfth Game Between Cats and
Terriers Promise to be
Thrilling One

At Spartanburg S. C., next Saturday,
Coach Younger’s Davidson Wildcats will
seek revenge for last year’s defeat at the
hands of the Wofford College eleven. The
series of games between the two schools

‘Started way back, in 1914 with a great vic-

tory for Davidson, but since 1921 the Wof-
ford boys have gradually shown more re-
sistance to the attacks of the Cats until last
year, for the first time in the history of the
two schools, Davidson suffered defeat at
their hands.

This year will tell a different tale if signs
can be judged. The powerful Davidson eleven
which put up such a fine battle with the
Clemson Tigers last Saturday, scoring twice
even though outweighed by several pounds
per man, will give something well worthy
of consideration. F

This is the third game of the Cats for this
season. With their team doped to win, the
student body is resting with an ease born
of confidence in their plucky warriors. The
team, however, will not be: without student
support. A goodly number will journey south
with the team while those at home will sup-
port them in thought and spirit.

The probable lineup for the game will be
as follows:

Davidson Position Wofford
Brock (C) ------- ) b) CRSP lap Peay Speake
RAKE poset se jG Page ee ya King
Decamp --------- EY C fee Os McGee
Mason - Center .-- Inabinet
Mille usee osc RG eee eco Gibson
Covington RT Gleaton

(Continued on Page 7)

a pas winalts ines. © H.W runs ovr Onn

Scabbard arid Blade
Meets in New Hall

For the first time in its history, the local
chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national hon-
orary military fraternity, initiated the school
year with a meeting in their new, well-fur-
nished hall last night in Oak Row. The dis-
cussions of the plans for the fall activities
were not disclosed, but will be divulged in
the near future, Major Bill Hill, presiding
officer, stated.

The new hall will be a splendid asset to
the fraternity, since it has been comfortably
furnished and will serve as a very desirable
meeting place. Unique in its appearance, the
wall decorations include sabres, rifles, and
helmets, and to accentuate its militaristic
semblance, a machine-gun lies in the back-
ground of the room.

Seven members, all of whom were initiated
last spring, remain to pursue the work of
the Reserve Officers Training Corps. The
membership will probably be augmented by
selections to be made this fall, providing that
new men are revealed as meriting the honor.

Qualifications do not only include splen-
did character, good scholastic standing and
natural ability, but the cadet must be an
outstanding student. Eligibility for member-
ship extends only to those men who are tak-
ing advanced military training and who are
planning to procure admission in the R.
O. T. C, upon graduation.

The prime function of Scabbard and Blade
is to adhere to their principal purpose which
calls for the preservation and development
of the essential qualities of good and effi-
cient cadet officers in addition to bringing
closer social contact between the student
officers.

Officers other than Major Hill, are
Lieut. Bill Morrison, 2nd: Lieut.
Guire, Ist Lieut. Louis Roberts,

(Continued on page 5)

Gifted Reporters

in Freshman Class

Ist
Bill Me-
and Cap-

There seems to be a Rhee aanlth of reporting
material in the ranks of the class of thirty
three according to the number of men who
are trying out for the Reporters Club. This
organization requires some talent and a great
deal of work to join its number but -the
candidates this year seem to have an abund-
ance of that quality known as “knack.” The
following men are reporting for work on The
Davidsonian at the present time: Bagby, J.
A., Taylor, B. B., Preston, S. P., Steadman,

R. A., Henley, T. F., Noblin, S. M., Davis,
T. M., Boyd, J. E., Boyd, J. H., Miller,
Geo., Elvery, Freeze, Raies, Lilly, Ward,
Silver, Marvin, Ervin, Alderman, R. H.,
Rachal, Bryant, S. J., McBryde, D. D.,
Croker, Myers, C. F.; Sisson, C. A., Mc-

David, M. F.

Honor Roll—Spring
1929

Freshmen—DuBose, E. B., Enloe, R. P.,
McConnell, J. D., McLean, T. W.

Sophomores—Munroe, H. S., Wiley, S: S.

Juniors — Brown, F. R., Brown, J. L.,
Edelman, A. T., Johnston, F. W., Knox,
J. B., McGavock, W. G., McGuire, W. B.,
Marks, J. R., Marsh, E. E.

Seniors—Albright, C. J., Brown, S. Y.,
Davidson, H. S., Dumas, W. L., Fry, G. A.,
Gilmour, M. T., Hall, F., Graham, J. B.,
Harrill, H! C., Hayes, R. B., Hill, T. R.,
Jennings, H. B., Kirkland, L. D.,! McConnell,
E. R., Martin, D. F., Moriarty, J. B., Weav-
er, W. R.

Eleven Social Grouse Pledge Forty
Per Cent of Big Freshman :
Class

THREE WEEKS RUSHING

Total of One Hundred and Thirty-
Four Bids Extended

Following an intensive three-week season
of rushing, the eleven social fraternities on
the campus extended one hundred and thirty-
four bids to freshmen Tuesday, this number
including conflicts. Eighty-seven members
of the class were pledged Tuesday night, and
five upperclassmen were also pledged, for a
total of ninety-two men on bid day. The per-
centage of freshmen ‘bids was
slightly over forty.

The fraternities and their
follows:

Beta Theta Pi—S. A.
tonia; J. G. Marvin,
Beacham, Jr.,

accepting

pledges are as
Robinson, Jr., Gas-
Nie JiebeB:
Wadesboro; H. N. Smith,
Tehula, Miss.; O. E. Guerrant, Pasadena,
Calif.; B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La.

Kappa Alpha—D» M. McConnell,. Chester,
S. C.; KE. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.;
W. A, Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; R. L. McAulay,
Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. EE. Lake, Atlanta,
Ga.; S. M. McKee, Brevard.

Kappa Sigma—L. G. Sanford, Mocksville ;
C. M. Norfleet, Jr., Winston-Salem; U. B.
Gardner, [. Mullens and H. L. Cavan, all of
Decatur, Ga.; F. K. Fleagle, Jr., Davidson;
J. T. Lowe, Lexingtow.

Phi Delta Theta—J. W. Dodge, Jr., Jack-
sonville, Fla.; J. M. Steele, Decatur, Ga. ;
Robert Glasgow, Jr., Charlotte; S. B. Brooks
god J. D. Enochs, both of Bluefield, W. Va.;
W. J. Davis, Rome, Ga.; R. W. Noone,
Chattanooga, Tenn.

Phi Gamma Delta—W. A. Mebane, Burl-
ington; J. S. Creech, Winston-Salem; S. P.

Summit,

Preston, II, Lewisburg, W. Va.; C. W.
Freeman, Jr., Bramwell, W. Va.; W. D.
Poole, Troy; W. M. Monroe, Jr., Fayette-

(Continued on Page 7)

Organ Teacher Secured
By Department of Music

Charlotte Man to Teach Twice a
Week

Eugene Craft of Charlotte has. been se-
cured by the music department of Davidson
as teacher of piano and organ. This is the
first
here,

been given
and quite a demand has been created for
organ study by the installation of the new
Skinner. organ in the auditorium of Cham-
bers. Mr. Craft is a former pupil of the great
French organist, Marcel Dupres, who gave
an organ recital this week at the new Myers
Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte. The
music department of Davidson considers it-
self fortunate in being able to secure his
services as a teacher of organ for two days
a week,

year organ lessons have

Because of the increasing demand among
both Students and townspeople for organ
study, an arrangement has been made with
the Board of Deacons of the Davidson Col-
lege Presbyterian Church whereby the organ
belonging to the church may be used for
practice purposes while advanced students
will have the opportunity. to use the hew
organ in Chambers.

Althoug credit is given for organ
study, students show earnestness in their
lesire. for music study. The old class rooms
of Shearer Hall “have been turned over to
the music department. One is used as a prac-
tice room for the college band, while others
will be used for piano or other instrumental ©

practice.

no

(Continued on page 8)
