THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMB

V.M.I. DEFEATS

Side Line Shots

At An Un-Dying Fight Against
Big Odds

By P. R. Alderman

To a stranger that game last Saturday
must have shown promises of turning in-
to a track meet during the first half, but
to us who know the Wildcats everything
pointed to one of those comebacks that
the Davidson eleven has practically gotten
the habit of staging when they're on the
wrong end of the score. This time proved
no exception and those Wildcats came
back with all the fight that their name
impliés, but the odds were too great to be
entirely overcome.

Captain Hawkins and his cohorts prov-
ed to be a Flying Squadron but they
found their flights hampered more than
once by the Red and Black eleven, who
persisted in exhibiting that well-known
Scotch trait and .giving nothing, especial-
ly when their backs were up again their
own goal. It looks like some unseen force
changes those eleven men into ones of

twice their strength when they are pushed
past their 10-yard line.

It was anything but a lucky day for the
Cats against the V. M. I. Cadets. Break
after break went to the Virginians until it

’ seemed that fate was determined to send
them off the field victors. Boreno Baker’s
beautiful recovery of a V. M. I. fumble
On Davidson's 2 yard line in the first half
was the only time that Dame Luck was
willing to smile on the losers. If one or two
more breaks had gone the right way for
the Cats the final tale might have been
somewhat different.

Joe McCall again showed that he is apt
to cause trouble to any opponent if he
gets into a broken field with the pigskin
under his arm. That 55 yard run against
the Cadets and through four or five of
their best was as much as any fan could
ask in the way of speed and sidestepping.
Dan Goodykoontz, playing for the second
time this season also proved a threat
when it came to nabbing passes.

The Wildcat eleven, in spite of the score
and statistics, played one of their best
games of the season. Whether on offensive
or defensive they did very creditable
work, especially when it’s taken in con-
sideration that the Flying Squadron pre-
sented one of the strongest lines that the
Cats have gone up against this season.
Although outweighed and battered, the
Red and Black machine was right in
there digging all the time.

‘ Hawkins was probably the outstanding

star for the visitors. A constant threat
when running with the ball, he also show-
ed himself a wise and alert field general,

His: running mate, Wright, also proved
very damaging to the Cat line. Brock,
Covington and Baker showed up fine in
the line for Davidson while McCall, King
and Fraley were best in the backfield. It’s
- hardly just to say that these men out-
shone their mates, however.

: For the first time in two years the Day-
idson-State game Presents a couple of
teams that are pretty well-matched, as
far as predictions and estimates go. While
State did beat Wake Forest they were
unable to score on Clemson, which more
or less evens things up. The Wolfpack
and Wildcats both have comparatively
inexperienced teams, all of which points
to a royal battle in Raleigh Saturday.

The present grid season is growing old
fast, a few more games and it will all be over
for another year, The Wildcats, with the
exception of two or three major injuries
should be in the best form of the entire
year as they meet State, Carolina and

Duke respectively. The odds are against

us in the last two games but they’re to be
played on Richardson Field, which makes
things look a lot brighter:

It is customary for the bride’s parents
to pay for the wedding expenses. Sort of
a, final payment and investment in leisure.
—Marquette Tribune.

“Have I any mail?”
“What's ‘your name?”
_—“¥ou'th find it on the envelope.”
—Selected.

DAVIDSO

Wildcat Eleven Rallies in Second Half
But is Unable to Overcome Cadet Lead

*Cats Again Attempt Aerial Atack in
Effort to Better Score of
Opponents
McCALL RUNS 55 YARDS

Captain Hawkins and Wright Star
for Flying Squadron

The Virginia Military Institute Cadets
ripped and slashed through the Davidson

Wildcats here last Saturday during two|

quarters of the game, but found: them-
selves stopped short during the second
half. The Wildcats, powerless during the
first two stanzas of the encounter came
back fighting in the second half to score
once and to hold the Flying Squadron
away from the Davidson goal. The final
score was 12 to 6.

All during the early part of the game,
the Cats were fighting with their backs
to the wall. The powerful drives of Haw-
kins and Wright for the Soldiers kept the
ball deep in Davidson territory most of
the time. The Wildcats were never in a
position to start an offensive of any kind.
Only one first down was made by them
during the first two quarters, and this
was made deep in their own territory. But
the Wildcat fight was there, holding
whenever the goal line was threatened,
and Thad Brock’s. toe was also there to
send the ball spiraling down the field out
of danger.

Although V. M. I. gained by far the
most ground, yet it remained for the Cats
to pull off the outstanding play of the
game. With the ball on their own thirty-
yard line, Thad Brock shot a fifteen yard
pass to Joe McCall, who then sidestepped,
twisted, and fought his way on for the
distance between him and the goal. There
were four orange-jersied men between
him and the final marker but he either
hook off or dodged them all. He ran fifty-
five yards after receiving the pass. It
was without doubt the prettiest piece of
work of the whole game.

V. M.'I. kicked off and McCall returned
the ball to the forty yard line. However,
the Cats were forced to punt and Hawkins
returned the ball to Davidson’s 45 yard
line. Here the Flying Squadron went into
action, and by a series of line plays, fea-
turing Hawkins and Wright, carried the
ball down the field. With its first down on
Davidson’s one-yard line, Wright tried
center, but fumbled and Baker was on
the ball like a hawk to stop the danger-
ous drive. Brock kicked safely out of
danger. The Cadets never threatened
seriously again during the rest of the
quarter, but kept possession of the ball
most of the time.

But the driving power of the V. M. I.
boys was not to be denied long, and they
started a drive from Davidson’s forty
yard line that was not to be stopped short
of a touchdown. Wright plunging four
yards for the counter. Again during the
second quarter the Cadets carried the ball
almost over the line, but were stopped by
a determined stand by the Cats. The stand
only delayed the score a few moments,
for Brock got off his only bad kick of the
game to give the ball to the Squadron on
the twenty-five yard line and McCray car-
ried the ball over after a series of drives
had placed it in scoring position.

The second half was another story. The
Wildcats took to the air with some degree
of success and scored once and threatened
to score again. Passes and line plays car-
ried the ball from Davidson’s 20 yard line
to V. M. I.’s 30 yard line, but here a pass
was intercepted to give the ball to the
Cadets and to break up the drive. Two

| other times Davidson had heaves inter-

cepted to stop their drives, but on no
other occasions was the ball so deep into
the Virginian’s territory. The drives of
the V. M. I. team met with a stone wall
defense that never once let them get in a
position that was dangerous.

Captain Thad Brock again turned in a
very consistent game. He was everywhere
at once, it seemed, on the defense and was
one of the offensive stars of the Cats. His
punting average was almost forty yards,
an exceptional one. Several times he was
forced to kick from behind his own goal
line. His passing enabled the Wildcats to
put over their only score and aided great-
ly in other drives.

Davidson President Not
To Attend Presentation

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son College, has expressed deep regret that
he will be unable to attend the exercises at
Raleigh on November 12, when a portrait of
the late Benjamin R. Lacy, state treasurer,
will be presented to the state of North Caro-
lina. A conflicting engagement will prevent
the Davidson president from attending.

Davidson College is interested in the ap-
proaching exercises from several standpoints.

Joe McCall turned in some pretty
broken field running, among his exhibi-
tions being his jaunt for the touchdown.
He returned the kickoffs behind beautiful
interference for long gains. Dan Goody-
koontz went in as a substitute and played
a fine offensive game. He was on the re-
céiving end of several of Brock’s passes
for nice gains. Walter Fraley and Don
King also played jam-up defensive games
in the backfield, while Baker and Brock
were towers of strength in the line.

Captain Hawkins for the visitors was a
continuous bother to Davidson. _He
handled punts in an almost perfect man-
ner and ran his team very commendably.
Wright and Biggs were other able per-
formers in the backfield.

ER 7, 1929

peer

Summary
Davidson Position V.-M. I.
Panel cccsutissessancon (C) Brock
L.E.
GH8OWICK aecsvausseee 25. Raker
L.T.
Maaseé i205 Socoeeetect eas DeCamp
L.G.
NVicGhOw. icectaubeteel cece Milton
Center
Gravatt. oc. coseesese cess. Mathis
R.G.
Smith Swe u ccc Covington
: R.T.
SCOttscsocu bcc sseceusececey Proctor
R.E.
Hawkins (C):ccccccccscccccc Fraley
Q.B.
Biggs: cscccccccabesee asco Parrish
L.H.
MCGtay aociceocwewuuedelec McCall
L.H.
WRN coscebucueudaccccaced. King
F.B.
ViOMil)\ cossuduccccasaes 012 O00—12
Davidson: sceccesvuckecas 00 60— 6

Scoring touchdowns: for V. M. I.
Wright, McCray, for Davidson, Mc-

Call.

Substitutions: for
man, Willard,
Agrow, Laughorn,

Gregory,

V. M. I. Chap-
Markliss,
Bailey, Holtz-

claw. For Davidson: Goodykoontz,

Mills, Raker,
Conway, Miller, M.

Parker, “McConnell,

Bradshaw, offi-

cials: Referee, Hartsell, N. C. State,
umpire, Brice, Auburn. Headlines-
man, Rawson, Georgia.

N in STUBBORN FIGHT

Spéedy Halfback

Joe McCall, whose stellar work in the

Wildcat backfield has been outstanding

all season, provided the feature of the day

by a beautiful fifty-five yard run for

Davidson's only score against the V. M. I.
Cadets Last Saturday.

Fond Mother: “Ah how do you like
college?”

Freshman: “Well, at times I’ve felt a
little board.”

Some Freshmen are dumb but most of
them are not acting.

\

yy
We

Key Town selling
—a new telephone idea

Commercial development men of the Bell
System have originated a new use of the
telephone which is proving economical and
efficient for modern salesmanship. From
important central towns the salesman makes
periodic visits to customers and prospects

by telephone.

To conceive this idea, to make it practical

by selecting Key Towns on a basis of most
advantageous rates to surrounding points,
and to sell it as a business practice—all this
illustrates how telephone service is as open as
any commodity to constructive imagination.

Key Town selling is one of many indica-
tions of the steady demand, present and to
come, for more and more telephone service.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“O'R PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN"
