Yas

Page Two

January 31, 1929

“THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of
Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

AUBREY BROWN.......-..-. -Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL....-.-..--Bnsiness Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF :
F. D. MILLER --Managing Editor
Cc. M. P -Managing Editor
R. F. Managing Editor
Ze Ni orts Editor
Vv. A. ---News Editor
P. B. F -Society Editor
Dz. P. Feature Editor
. WwW. -Assistant Editor
j: L. BROWN...-- .--Assistant Editor
C. R._ LAKE..... .-Associate Editor
. B. MORIARITY -.-Associate Editor
Vw. K. PRITCHETT.-.-.-..-.-Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Di ACMI DGS cbesavcddgacesce Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL ..-Asst. Bus. Mer.
W. B. McGUIRE —-Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. SLOOP-... .-Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS. -Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN ..-.. Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGT Solicitor
. A. CANNON Solicitor
ii. D. MAJORS. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
webasdcdasspastsssuulebteseus President

, .Vice- President
E. S. HEEFNER.....---.-

Secretary-Treasurer
R. ALDERMAN 47 Re PRESTON
> H. DUBOSE V. C. RAGIN

R. GRAHAM D, RUSK.
W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
. H. LONG S. S. WILEY
. P. McBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON

ar

31, 1929

Yuc

THURSDAY, JANUARY

A cigarette lighter is a sign of
wealth, Not that anybody can’t
own one but only the rich have. time
to light one.

What's wrong with this sentence ?
The Pan-Hellenics will be given
over to a resume of exam methods
employed by different institutions.

And they tell us that if a college
man doesn’t speak to you he isn’t
snobbish, he’s just sleepy. Well now,
Davidsonians either get their eight
hours or take several education
courses.

All students who are rejoicing
that exams have departed might be
listed under four heads, namely,
freshmen, sophomores, Stiniors, and
seniors.

Freshmen would be different!
Exams seem to make them assert
their so-called class spirit. Maybe
they thought the profs would be
afraid to flunk them for fear of a
riot or perhaps a walk-out.

Loving cup offereed for cham-
pion ping-pong artist. Now all we
need is a cup offered for the most
accomplished bull artist. Major
Hoople must be rewarded.

FRESH FROSH

Recent showing of insubordina-
tion by the freshmen must be due to
the four or five months during
which they had no organization and
during which time they had no op-
portunity to combine for any one
purpose. Now we are not sanction-
ing the break made by them but
only trying to arrive at a cause back
of the outburst of enthusiasm which
was certainly not engendered by ex-
aminations, unless they be a queer

lot indeeed.

‘of

After the period of “campus” the
freshies must know that there is
something stronger than outward
manifestations of pseudo class pride,
for the punishment meted out seems
(unless there have been develop-
ments since this writing) to have
been of the proper variety.

, Under existing conditions (and
some wish they were otherwise)
the student body is behind the Court
of Control. And even the Class of
32 must recognize some regula-
tions. | i

VAGABONDING

A practice only slightly observed
before but one which merits atten-
tion and serious consideration is that
“vagabonding”—sitting-in on
varous courses to which one has
not been assigned. Especially in
the universities is such procedure
followed and to the resultant good
of the student, but sanction or en-
couragement has never put the prac-
tice into effect here.

That one might derive several de-

cided benefits is evident. First,
there would be a broader insight in-
to intersting courses which the
student has not been able to incor-
porate 4nto his schedule.

Another distinct advantage would
be that the man who is undecided
as to elective courses might sit in
on several’ classes and discover
their nature—or the professors.

Some system could be worked out
whereby students might know what
lectures are being given at a cer-
tain time@itd would be able to avail
themselves of this added opportun-
ity.

Let’s do some “vagabonding.”

COLLEGE “BABBITTRY”

Just as almost e¥ery other type
of manhood is represented in the
college group so is the Sinclair
Babbitt—the conforming,
collegiate, activity-mad fellow who
clutches at anything savoring of
group sanction and of the fad of
the moment.

Lewis

He accepts bids to every organi-
zation that offers opportunity to
wear another key or charm on his
chain until he affiliates himself with
his

so many interests are divided

into all too many channels,

The Babbitt is always eager to
help arrange anything in order to
help the other fellow may have a
showing and as one has put it, “he
is perfectly willing to work on a
dozen or so committees, of about
the importance of filling the water
glasses for the debating team, when
if he were to devote his energies to
one activity he might be able to be

‘one for whom the water glasses
\

were filled.”

\Such a popular practice as this
has’a future of continued. practice,
for there are those coming in all the
timé who are ready to replace the
departing Babbitts and are collect-
ing keys and honors and whatnots
just as their predecessors,

INTRAMURALS

vith the “body-building
i develop-

In line
policy” thexe_is another
ment that we woultNlike to see upon
the campus. This is, the develop-
ment of more intramural sports than
are now in practice. At present the
only competition within the college
lies in the class basketball and track
events. Boxing is coming forward,
but as yet there has been nothing
done toward a comprehensive pro-
gram of competition between the
classes or groups. There are many
sports, not all of the mstrictly in-
tramural, that would furnish a suit-
able basis for touranments,

Another reason for more practical
exercise or competition is the effect
that it has upon the athletic teams,
In a college as small as Davidson,
every bit of available talent is nec-
essary for the best teams. A com-
prehensive program of intramural
athletics would be a great asset in
developing and proving those with
ability. Not only the physical de-
velopment is an asset, but also the
fact of the psychological attitude
developed. .In any school where
there is much interest in athletic
competition there is bound to be an
athletic complex in regard to the
larger and more important sports.
The only hitch in this idea is, would
there be much interest in any form
of intramurals on a large scale? It
seems probable that there would be
as much interest as is manifested in
the present few sports, and as many
men are taking the daily exercises
offered in the gym, why should not

varied program of sports?

It is hard to outline a program to
be followed. It is much easier to
suggest that something be done; or
perhaps the present plan is only a
step toward the ultimate end, if so,
the above is only commendatory, if
not, the nit may be treated as some-
thing that contains a practical sug-
gestion for future use.

—RFJ.

»

this interest expand to take in a’

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Current Comment Hotchpot WANTON WILES
By John Brown By Kendrick Pritchett By Dave Anderson
The much-discussed Cruiser Bill is| After years spent in the interior of POST MORTEMS

now before the Senate. This bill calls
for the appropriation of $274,000,000 to
build fifteen 10,000 ton crusiers and one
13,000 ton aricraft carrier. Five cruisers
would -be started in each of the
next three years. According to the
theory that adequate protection is the
best means of insuring peace, it is high
time for our Navy to be strengthened.
According to the Washington Confer-
ence of 1921 the tonnage rato of Great
Brtain, the United States and Japan
should be 5-5-3. However, the present
crusier ratio is approximately 13-5-6'%4,
with the United States at the bottom.
And crusiers are considered to be es-
sential to the protection of American
commerce.

The Pennsylvania Railroad showed
strong and justifiable faith in aviation
recently when it ordered ten all-metal
tri-motored Ford planes, representing
an expenditure of about $650,000, The
order was made under Col. Lindbergh’s
advice, and will go to the establishing
of a 48-hour transcontinental passen-
ger service, air and rail, from New
York to Los Angeles.

The stock market may not continue
to rise, but the price of seats in the
stock exchange shows no sign of fall-
ing. The high mark for a seat in 1927
was $305,000 and $595,000 in 1928. The
current quotation for stock exchange
seats is $620,000.

Chicago is generally thought to be a
rather dangerous place for innocent
bystanders who are liable to be at-
tacked by machine guns at almost any
time. On the contrary, Chicago ranks
low in its proportion of homicides.
There were only 13.3 homicides per
100,000 populatoin in 1927, while the
South seemed to be quite dangerous,
Memphis leading with 60.3 homicides
per 100,000, followed by Birmingham,
Charlotte, Jacksonville, Atlanta and
Miami, all of which have higher homi-
cide ratios than Chicago. In Moscow,

storm center of Sovietism, the ratio
was only 9.8 in 1925.
According to all reports, business

for the United States has been exceed-
ingly prosperous in 1928. But not
enough of us are business men to
share the increasing business profits
directly. Commodity prices and sales
have meanwhile increased, but em-
ployment has decreased and wages
have increased very little. It is true
that business has prospered, but at
the same time there are many individ-

uals of modest means who have not
been so prosperous.
Correct this sentence: Now that

exams are over, temporarily at least,
we're all cager to get back to the old
grind after our ten days’
from work.

vacation

Oklahoma seems to have trouble in
her selection of governors. Gov. H. S.
Johnston was recently suspended from
office pending trial before the Senate
court in impeachment proceedings. It
may be recalied that in 1921 impeach-

(Continued on page 5)

Africa studying the folk-songs of
tribes dwelling in the Congo fastnesses,
a French explorer declares that some
of the chants of the colored trouba-
dours rival the Orphic hymns and the
epics of Homer. However one song
does not deal with the heroic deeds
of Congo natives. It simply gives an
interesting and humorous account of
the creation of man. Probably by
judging man by his “deeds, the Congo
poets came to the early conclusion that
not God, but the Devil was the creator
of Man. A brief sketch of the story
in translation is as follows: The Devil
said: If God does something, I will do
the same, only in the opposite way.
So God made the sun, and the Devil
made the moon. At last at the end of
creation, God created the monkey, and
the Devil made man. Man is a monkey
with two hands, not so lovely as man
and far worse in character. Man is
to. the monkey what the moon is to the
sun and the night to the day, adds the
Congo philosopher.

The government. will, cease
currency of the present size on April
1 in preparation for putting out the
new and smaller currency on July 1.
Printing of the new paper money has
been under way for several months.
The distinctive design of the new bills
is expected by treasury officials to
make it easy to detect counterfeits.

issuing

Dean Rayinond Walters of Swarth-
more College has announced that for
216 colleges in the approved list of the
Association of American Universities
this year’s increase of only 2°per cent
in enrollment is almost startling. Is
this lessened acceleration to be taken
as merely accidental and temporary, or
is it the beginning of a permanent slow-
ing up or a possible decline? Many
teachers, commenting on the figures,
state that college enrollment has reach-
ed its highest point. Dr. Jones, direc-
tor of admissions of Columbia Univer-
sity, says, “There are godo reasons for
believing that it may be more than
temporary.” His reasons are our
small immigration, the increase of jun-
ior colleges (there are now more than
400 in the country), and a decreasing
birthrate.

The Pacific Railway, operating street
cars and suburban expresses in South-
ern California, has arranged for school
courses to be taken by commuters rid-
ing from home to work and back again.
The subjects taught are home building,
real estate, advertising, English, sales-
manship, etg?” The text-books are small
and easily carried, and*each day’s as-
signment comes in loose-leaf form.
Tests consist of printed questions to be
answered by marking a cross in a col-
umn. The $18 three
months’ course.

fee is for a

The railway company should find the
new school a benefit in keeping its pas-
sengers contented, even though trains
should be blocked and service lag.
There is danger, however, that its stu-
ent-passengers may advance so rap-
idly in wisdom and wealth that they
will graduate from the commuters’

class and leave the trains empty. *

OPEN FORUM

4

IN RE: ' FILLING UP THE PAPER

To the Editor:
From the Davidsonion. . time
out for The Davidsonian until January
gist. ... Then there may be enough
happenings to fill up the columns with
something besides what the other col-
leges are doing. What this place needs
is more newsseekers on a big scale.”
Thus does the editor excuse the
shortcomings of The Davidsonian.
There is nothing to fill up the columns,
and there are not enough newsseekers.
Yes, he is right in the first instance,
there is nothing to fill up the columns
but a lot of bull. Every article that
appears in the paper could be short-
ened to less than one half of its original
length and still contain all the facts
that are in it. There is too much bull
in the paper, the articles are padded
with verbosity until the main facts are
so hidden that it is impossible to find
them. But in the second statement,
that we need more newsseekers; I do
not believe that the editor means this
in the literal sense. Does he mean
that ‘everyone should tell the news
editor what is happening. This would
be impossible, everything that hap-
pens in the student body is known all
over the campus before it could appear
in The Davidsonian. To take the state-
ment seriously, it is ridiculous, in the
first place there is. no necessity for

“

more newsseekers, for there is no more
news to find. There are very few things
of real news happening on the cam-
pus. One man can find out what is
happening, but it would take a super-
man to find enough things to fill up
the paper.

There are two answers to the ques-
tion, how to fill up the paper. The
first is to get a more energetic or ra-
ther more ad-producing business statf
and fill up the paper that way, or else
reduce the size of the paper so that it
will be possible to fill it up with the
happenings upon the campus or with
something that is of interest to thé
student body.

As to the first suggestion, while it
might work, yet it is doubtful, the sup-
posed best talent in the student body is
working to get ads for the paper, and
as yet there have been few occasions
when The Davidsonian was so full of
adds that there was not the necessity
of Alling it up with a lot of bull sent
out from “College Humor” and others
of the sort. They only solution then
seems to reduce the size of the paper.
This would materially reduce the cost
of the publication; it would make the
paper easier to fill up. The present
Davidsonian has proved itself to be
too large, and a smaller paper would
certainly remove all of the complaints
about there being too much bull and
unnecessary filler. —A READER.

.

patron saints of bull.

Specials for today:

was asked if he had any last words.

Number two:

‘cepting that dis sho am gonna be a pow’ful lesson to me.”
be a powerful lesson to you and read something good for a: change).

Two negatives make an affirmative.

Exams. are past (and passed?), praises be to St. Valentine and other
Yours loquaciously, his honor the editor of the Bull
Pen, is suffering from a severe attack of writer’s cramps. Speaking of bull, say,
you ain’t seen nothing yet, as they say in Chicago. We have had several folks
remark that this column is the biggest bunch of bull in existence, but, as man
to man (have a Roi-Tan), this is an also ran besides some of those exams
we handed in. Therefore, there is a great shortage in the live stock market,
especially in bulls, so we are not in the best of form for this week.

THE BULL PEN

College jokes and two second-hand negro jokes.
We're off (off is good, fro mthe neck up).

It seems that a young darkey was to be hanged for hitting a lady over
the head with a pressing club or the like.

Just before the dance started, he
“No suh, I ain’t got nothin’ to say,
(Moral: Let this

That is one of the

few things we learned in our four. years of strenuous work in high school.
Then it is logical that four negatives make two positive statements, etc., ad

infinitum, Here’s one to figure out:

The last word:

in a college boarding house. Desiring

Thanks.” (What's wrong with that?
sides, he didn’t say it, he shouted.)

(Editor’s Note:

Form No. 11909 3-4

and flat feet.

check one) hair? Birthday gift?

you know.

candy
12), &)
time, as my room-mate eats too.

and whatnot.

Park.
Be a freak with three hands.

your business.

never the same.

Editors and taugh that off.

Thanks for the fruit cake (check one).

3.
4. Queens and Converse are mere prep. schools for children,
Note: And do we believe all we hear?

5. There are no sororities at N. C. C. W. but the girls squabble

Signing off. If this isn’t enough humor for one week, see the Man

Says the darkey, inquiring of the lady
of the house for an odd job, “Lady, you don’t know nobody what don’t want
nobody to do nothing for ’em, do you?”

It seems that (stop us if you've heard this one)—it was

cream” for his coffee, a bright young

stude pulls this one: “Please pass the chalk-water milk in the cream pitcher.
He didn’t say please and thanks—be-

MISS PRUDE ON LETTER WRITING

Many requests have come in to Miss Prude seeking aid
in composing letters to fond parents, girl friends, executive committees, etc.
She submits the following model for a guide.)

Davidson, (N. C.)
(Date—if any)

Dearest—(say “I” and give your full name):

Sorry I haven’t answered your lon, nice letter sooner but I have been
so busy with examis (Copyright 1492 by C. Columbus—used by special per-
mission). ‘Besides, I have been sick from a severe attack of fallen eyebrows

My beloved—(what-have-you), I have been thinking of you and you
alone. You are the baloney in my applesauce.

Say, where did you get that pretty (blond, dark, golden, curly, green—
No foolin’.
Well, we like you lots but must go now. I have so much studying to do,

Kisses and carresses,

f XXX Me.

Send dog-biscuits next

P.S.S. Please send sledge-hammer, also.

AND WE LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN FROM THEM —N. C. C. w.
Being the second of a series of studies based on observation, experiment
1, Dynamite, nitro-glycerine, etc., are not the only thifgs which should

be labelled “Dangerous, handle with care.”
2. In Grenesboro it’s a choice of three things:

Keep your eyes on the road, hands on the steering wheel and mind on

When better N. C. C. W. girls are made, Davidson men will make ’em.

(Editor's
Oh, you have no idea.)

together

aging

Contemporary Thought :

ONE HUNDRED PER CENT
PERFECT

Calvin, Coolidge: Two great tests in
mental discipline are accuracy and
honesty. It is far better to master a
few subjects thoroughly than to have
a mass of generalizations about many
subjects. The world will have little use
for those who are right only a part of

ards of the classroom, practical life
will require something more than 60
per cent or 70 per cent for a passing
mark. The standards of the world are
not like those set by the faculty, but
more closely resemble those set by
the student body themselves. They
are not at all content with a member
of the musical organizations who can
strike only 90 per cent of. the notes.
They do not tolerate a man on the
diamond who catches only 80 per cent
of the balls. The standards which the
student body set are high. They want
accuracy that is well-nigh complete.
eld f apply the same standards to can-
dor'and honesty. Bluff and pretense
may be permitted in the classroom; but
in their relations with each other stu-
dents regard such practices with con-
tempt, and those whg resort to them
are properly considered to be cheap.
They may be willing to view with con-

siderable tolerance those who break
the rules of the school, but they will

the time. Whatever may be the stand-

not fail to mete out condemnation and
penalty to those who break the rules
of training. When the world holds its
examinations it will require the same

standards of accuracy and _ honesty
which student bodies impose upon
themselves, Unless the mind. js

brought under such standards and dis-
cipline as will enable it to acquire these
Standard at an early period, the grave
danger increases that they may never
be acquired. :

Davidson College

The Charlotte Observer: This pop-
ular institution figures in the annual
report of the General Education Board
in felicitous manner. The Board makes
statement that during the Past I5 years,
“the endowment and teaching staff of
Davidson have trebled, while the num-
ber of students has doubled. Five |
years ago the main college. building
with class rooms and laboratories was
destroyed by fire. Thereupon tempor-
ary wooden structures were built and
approximately one-third of a new
fire-resistant building was constructed.
In order to assist the institution to
complete the building, the General Ed-
ucation Board made an appropriation
of $100,000 towards $400,000.” And the
General Education .Board never ex-

tended the helping hand to better
cause.
