THE

DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1929

5

Junior At Duke Receives |
Rhodes Scholarship For |
North Carolina |

Grady Frank, Winner of Award, is|
Class President

|
VOWLES ON CO COMMITTEE |
|
|

Davidson Has Eight Representatives |
From Five States as Candidates |
for Scholastic Honor

The Rhodes Scholarship for North Caro-
lina this year was awarded to Grady Frank
of Duke University by the state board of
selection which met at the University of
North Carolina in Chapel Hill, December 6,
and 7. This distinguished scholarship is one
of the greatest honors that can be awarded
to American college men, entitling the stu-
dent to two and usually three years of study
at Oxford University, with an annual allow-
ance of about $2000.

Dr. Guy R. Vowles, ‘head, of the local
German department, represented Davidson on
the committee which made the award.

Candidates for the scholarship appearing
before the board as representatives of David-
son were: three alumni of the college, J. A.
Thompson, now a graduate student at the
University of North Carolina; T. E. Loth-
ery, Jr., an instructor of the Davidson facul-
ty; and E. R. McConnell, member of the
faculty of Woodbury Forest School in Vir-
ginia. Other Davidson representatives ap-
pearing before their respective state boards
are M. C. O’Neal of Montgomery, Ala., Y.
M. C. A. executive Secretary; F. W. John-
ston, of Jefferson, Ga.; A. M. Frew, of
Charleston, W. Va.; W. W. Harrison, Jr.,
of York, S. C.; and J. B. Knox, of Liberty,
S. C. All of these men are outstanding in
college work and made very favorable im-
pressions upon the examining committees.

Grady Frank, the winner for North Caro-
lina, is a junior at Duke University. He
attended school in Japan, where his parents
are missionaries, before coming to Duke. The
great number of honors which he has won,
and his popularity on the campus are proof
of his unusual abilities. He is president of
his class, member of the ‘9019 Club,” hon-
orary scholarship fraternity, and a leading
player on the tennis team. He is also a mem-
ber of the .Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity,
Frank is specializing in mathematics and
shows promise of becoming an outstanding
success in his chosen field. He will leave for
England in October, 1930,

When you are riding in an auto, you
can pass trolley cars and other autos.
But when you are riding on.a trolley car,
about the only thing you can pass, is your
street.—J udge.

Summer boarder: “But why are those
trees bending over so far?”

Farmer: “You'd be bending over too,
Miss, if you were as full of green apples
as those trees are.”

“Where are you going?”

Agee:

Malone: “To find where them pigeons
live.”

Agee: “What for?”

Malone: “I want some holes for my
desk.”

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA A

Student Employment

Any student interested in profitable employ-
ment selling articles which have proved to be
leading sellers on college campuses throughout
the country should communicate with us at his
earliest convenience inasmuch as we expect to
appoint student representatives to sell our va-
rious articles on the local campus within the im-
mediate Our solely

through ‘student representatives, and we offer
no proposition which has not already proved it-
self to be a best college seller. Some of our best
selling propositions are: (1) class rings, seal
rings, class pins, seal pins, fraternity and club
keys and pins, and general college jewelry; (2)
stationery engraved with any fraternity or col-
lege seal or crest, dance programs, invitations,
visiting cards, etc.; (3) typewriters including
Corona, Remington, Royal, and Underwood por-
tables sold at $5 per month with allowance on

old machines; (4) pennants, banners, scarfs, pil-
lows, etc.; (5) Belts of any design desired; (6)

men’s furnishings including suits, top coats,
shirts, ties, underwear, pajamas, socks, shoes,
slickers, windbreakers, trench model coats, etc.
In answering this ad advise what experience you
have had, give your age, state which of the
above propositions appeal to you most, give at
least two references, advise what class you are
in and how long you expect to attend this col-
lege, how many students are enrolled at your
college, and how much time you can devote to
selling. Any inquiry we may receive which does
not give the above information will be ignored,
therefore, be sure to give this information in
your first inquiry. Write E. C. SHORTT, Megr.,
Indian Sales Agency, Williamsburg, Virginia.

future. articles are sold

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS

F. R. BROWN

Picture of J. B. Knox

A. T. EDELMAN

RECENT PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATES ee

A teacher who was giving the children
written exercises wrote out this “Wanted”
| advertisement :
|; “Wanted—A Miliner. Apply by

Miss Smith, 10 Blank St.”
The children had to make application for
the position in writing.
One youngster wrote:
“Dear Miss: I saw you want a miliner.
\ 1 hate to trim hats. Can't you get somebody
? Please let me know at once.”—Ex.

eee

letter to

‘E. E. MARSH

There's a little resturant not far away from

Initiat btainabl
pected ee ‘the hill that is kept by a man who prides him-

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO |

| self on his cooking. He was shocked to hear
a Junior criticize his pies the other day.
| “Why, young feller, I made pies before
| you was born!” he said to the complainer.

FIVE YEARS BACK

Checking back over the past half a decade
of the Davidsonian and Davidson, it seems
rather a shot out of the blue to locate an
editorial entitled “Bumming.” Apparently this
delightful pastime had already been dis-
covered by our scholarly lads and was well
pursued: to-wit, witness the grumblings of
the editor: “the man who rides on others just
for the pleasure of gaining free transporta-
tion is a social parasite.” Shocking! Very
much so, to think that so great a portion of
our student body belonged to the same class
as the most up to date thug and holdup man.
In other words, we, who bum, are fit cases
for the latest bug coop. Think it over, it was
only five brief years ago.

O yes, our cat. It seems that even under
the careful treatment of Doc Charlie, the
then reigning member of the throne had given
up the ghost. It was in October when it was
decided that a nice pussy would be imported
from the Everglades. Is it the one we have
now? I don’t know, ask Doc Charlie.

And football, umm—and how. Seven wins,
one tie and two losses. Outweighed 22 pounds
to a man a fighting Wildcat team messed up
the title aspirations of N. C. State in a close
10-10 score. Our Freshman mentor was then
a member of the team, It was by his place
kick ‘that the day was rescued, and in the
last six minutes to play, with a ten to three
score staring them in the face, the ’Cats
uncorked a passing attack for 72 yards.

And they licked Trinity 21-13, and Clem-
son 7-0. Good old days.

Then the announcement of the Duke en-
dowment, with Davidson securing the mini-
mum of $75,000 a year. Many a_ thankful
prayer went up on this, and we should re-
member just what this has meant and will
mean to the school.

The south wing of Chambers was almost
ready for use, and the delightful system of
pumping up the D Club was in full swing;
column after column of biographical com-
ment, and maybe some autobiographical.

And O yeah—let me close with the David-
sonian crossword puzzles.

The bandits rushed into the cigar store,
felled the clerks with blackjacks and ran-
sacked the place leisurely.

Then they leaned against the counter and
waited for the,clerks to regain consciousness.
Presently the head clerk regain his senses.
He peered up at the bandits and said, “Well,
what are you waiting for?”

The head bandit looked down with scorn,

“Coupons!” he replied with a sneer.

You look tired!

Yes, I've had a bad day. That office boy
of mine came in with the old story of getting
away for his grandmother’s funeral, so just
to teach him a lesson I said I would accom-
pany him.

He took you to the baseball game I sup-
pose?

No such luck! He told the truth for once.
It was his grandmother’s funeral!

Two Irishmen stood in front of a drug-
store in Dublin. In the window was a
display of rubber gloves.

“Now I wonder what is them things
for?” asked one of the Irishmen.

“Oh,” replied the other Irishman, “ye
can put them things on an wash yer hands
without gettin’ ye hands wet.”

She (tearfully) “You know I feel dread-
fully responsible about losing the football
game.”

He: “Why so?”

She: “I cheered once at the wrong
time.”

And listen, you rats. If you don’t know
the difference between a girl and a traffic
cop, you’d better stop when a traffic cop
tells you to.

You're quite an amateur at kissing.
Think so? Well it took a lot of practice to
get that ‘first time’ effect.

Army, was assigned to the mission of cap-

| “Well, why sell ’em now ?” asked the stude.

TEN YEARS BACK

“Down where I live,” said the man

A big year in the history of the school “

from Texas, “we grew a pumpkin so big
1919, A record breaking enrollment of 429 8
| that when we cut it, my wife Used one-
students,
nae : half of it as a cradle.”
pu the “Y" was showing Mary, Doug, | “Why,” smiled the man from Chicago,
Wallace Reed, and Dustan Farnam, all},

that’s nothing. A few days ago, right
fhere in the city, two full grown police-
men were found asleep on a beat.”

{

celebrities of our youthful hearts.
It was Doctor Martin's eighth year in the
president's chair.

a

|
' eh GaN aoe AEE ye eree (buys LUC | Sandy, Jr.: “Papa, I saved ten cents
ab Paes ‘ 7 ; |today. I ran all the, way to school be-
Students subscribed $11,025 during one | hind a street car.”
brief week in the Million Dollar campaign Sandy, Sr.: “Why didn't you run be-
then under way. Davidson got $400,000 in| iintlenetast aan save a dollar?”
the windup. pee eA pee eS
This makes us think of the Duke memorial Ibbie c “What is the opposite of
fund, why not subscribe a little to this, if si
| misery?
Davidson students could raise that much in} - eA
that year, why Coun we? |» Salty: “Happiness: sey x
ats oe | Ibbie: “And what is opposite vot sad-
And the R. O. T. C. Department wore the | een
chokers and ee, now commonly called | Tibie: “Now what is the opposite of
under the misnomer of blouses. ee ee oh
| woe!
pce pa a | Sally : “Giddap.”
Col. Don Scott Has Been | Notice: Don't invest your money in
Cited For W ar Bravery) mercury. It is sure to go down. this
CEPR winter.
Davidson Alumni of 1907 Recognized for t

Gallantry Eleven Years After
the War

Order Of Platoons,
Wednesday, Dec. 4

First—2nd Platoon, Company C
Second—3rd Platoon, Company C
Third—2nd Platoon, Company D

Col. Donnell Everett Scott,, graduate of |
Davidson College in the class of 1907 and
commander of the 120th Infantry during the
World War, has been cited by the United
States War Department for gallantry in R 5
action at Bellicourt on September 29, 1918,

Dr. C. W. Edwards Speaks
To Students On “Matter
At Lower Temperatures”

Noted Physicist Performs Re-
markable Experiments in
Illustrated Lecture

CO-AUTHOR OF TEXT

Duke Professor Lectures on Light
and Development of Vacuum
. Tubes, Wednesday Morning

On Tiesday evening, December 3, Dr.
Charles William Edwards, head of the Phy-
sics Department of Duke University, made
an interesting talk here on “Matter at Lower
Temperatures.” The talk centered chiefly on
matter that had been cooled to a temperature
of 150 to 200 degrees below zero. In the
course of his talk Doctor Edwards brought
out the fact that for the past few decades
physics had been dealing chiefly with min-
ute things but that now the field has almost
been. exhausted until more powerful in-
struments can be developed, and most of our
prominent physicists are turning their atten-
tion to the study of matter as we ordinarily
see it. Thus the talk was chiefly on common
things and during the evening several inter-
esting experiments were performed by sub-
jecting every day material to liquid air which
is 195 degrees below zero. The good number
of Davidson students who attended the lec-
ture’ were surprised to see grapes, beef-steak,
and other common things cooled to such a
degree that they became so brittle as to be
readily shattered when struck. Doctor Kd-
wards also ran a steam engine when frost
coated the boiler and “boiled”,a tea pot of
liquid air on a block ice. The manner in
which most of our vacuums are made was
also clearly demonstrated.

On the morning following the lecture Doc-
tor Edwards spoke to a large number of stu-
dents and professors on, light and its relation
to the development of vacuum tubes; later
in the day he made another interesting talk.

Doctor Edwards has become famous as a
physicists and a lecturer and incidentally is a
co-author of a text book on physics that is
used at Davidson and forty or more other
colleges and universities throughout the
United States. We feel sure that during his
stay here he accomplished the chief aim of
his-visit, that is, he aroused a greater inter-—

est in science in the Davidson students,

in orders issued from Washington, D. C., on
September 22 of this year. A news dispatch
from Graham tells something of Colonel
Scott’s heroism that day as follows:

though the heroism of Colonel
Scott, who resides at Graham and is a promi-
nent manufacturer and civic leader, is known
generally through this section and in state
military circles, the citation came to him as
a complete surprise—cleven years after the
famous battle in which he led a section of
the attack upon the famous Hindenburg line.
“Colonel Scott recalls vividly enough that
early morn when the boys stepped forward
in the smoke and fog to an objective they
could not see but knew was ahead of them.
“Just before the attack was begun Colonel
Scott had been promoted from major to
lieutenant-colonel. As a major he was a
battalion commander. As_ lieutenant-colonel
he was relieved of his batalion command.

“Even

“But his boys—the boys he had soldiered
with as’ one of them through the training
period—had to go up. He wanted to go with
them. He prevailed upon his superiors to let
him lead them forward, disregarding his pro-
motion. He was permitted to move forward

weight to suit you in HANES.

P. H. HANES

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White,
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

Winston-Salem, N. C.

solid colors or pastel trims.

KNITTING CO.

ag_their leader.

*

“The. citation :

“Ton E. Scott, colonel, Infantry Reserves,
then Lieutenant-colonel 120th Infantry, 30th
Division, American Expeditionary Forces.
For gallantry in action at Bellecourt and
Naurcy, France, September 29, 1918. The
120th Infantry, as part of the Fourth British

turing and mopping up the villages of Belle-
court and Naurcy, in the attack of September
29, 1918. Lieutenant-Colonel Scott, having
been promoted and relieved from command
of his, battalion, asked for and received per-
mission to lead his former battalion during
the attack. With disregard for his own per-
sonal safety, Lieutenant-Colonel Scott per-
sonally directed the battalion in the attack
so that this organization succeeded in cap-
turing the net work of trenches and taking

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

A MASTER OF THE BIBLE

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

about 1,000 prisoners. The splendid leader-
ship, gallantry and devotion to duty displayed
by Lieutenant-Colonel Scott in leading this
battalion assisted materially in the successful
operations of the 120 Infantry.’”

It will be recalled that another Davidson
alumnus, Henry Fletcher Martin, °15, of
Jacksonville, Fla., likewise received a be-
lated citation last fall.

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President

: Richmond, Virginia.

