THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

f

Faculty Directory

(Note: Below is corrected Directory as
issued from the Treasurer’s Office this
week.)

1. Arbuckle, H. B.—Phone 47-J; office,
Chemistry laboratory, residence, Concord
Street.

2. Beaty, E. A—Phone 190; office 2-A
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

3. Brown, C. K.—Phone 112; office, 221

Chambers, residence, Dr. Hood’s home,
Concord St.

4. Cullum, E. J—Phone 2-J; office, 125,
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

5. Cumming, W. P.—Phone 181; office
2-B, Chambers, residence, Concord St.

6. Currie, Archibald—Phone 129, office
216 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

7. Davis, J. H—Phone 17-W;; office 321,

Chambers, residence, home of Mrs. N. T.
Smith.

8. Douglas, J. L—Phone 132, office 204,
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

9. Douglas, J. M—No phone; office, 136
Chambers, residence Concord St.

10. Erwin, E. J—Phone 128; office 116
Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.

11, Elkins, J. W.—Phone 128; office, Ar-
mory, residence, N. Main St.

12. Fleagle, F. K.—Phone 114; office
303 Chambers, residence, Sloan St.

13. Foreman, K, J.—Phone 66-W ; office
373 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

14. Fulcher, H. EPhone 49-W ; office,
127 Chambers, residence, Concord St.

15. Grey, W. R.—Phone 62; office 202
Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

16. Goldiere, A. V.—Phone 17-W ; office,

303 Chambers, residence, home of Mrs.
N. T. Smith,

17, Harding, C. R—Phone 68-J ; office,
101 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

18. Henderson, L. B—Phone 159; office,
103 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

19. Hengeveld, F. W.—Phone 146; office,
116 Chambers, residence, Concord St.

20. Hobart, F. D.—Phone 19; residence,
S.-Main St.

21. Hood, Frazer—Phone 112; office, 235
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

22. Kimbrough, J. T.—Office, 103 Cham-
bers.

23, Jackson, F, L—Phone 55; office, 103
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

24. Lilly, H. T—Phone 123; office, 317
Chambers, residence, home of J. W. Me-
Connell.

25. Lingle, T. W.—Phone 125; office, 217
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

26. Lingle, Walter L.—Phone 94; office,
Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

27, Lyon, S. C—Phone 187; office 344
Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

28. McConnell, J. M—Phone 6; office,
113 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

29. McConnell, J. W.—Phone 123; office,
Infirmary, residence, South St,

30. Mebane, W. N.—Phone 134-J ; office,
309 Chambers, residence, Concord St.

31. McGill, M. W.—Phone 85; office, 107
Chambers, residence, Concord St.

32. Otto, J. A—Phone 167; office, Ar-
mory, residence, South St.

33, Porter, W. L—Phone 197; office,
143 Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.

_ 34, Pritchett, N. G—Phone 163: office,
143 Chambers, residence, S. Main St.

35. Richards, C. M.—Phone 57; office,
202 Chambers, residence, Concord St.

36. Scott, W. R—Phone 156; office Ar-
mory, residence, N. Main St.

37. Sentelle, M. E—Office phone 102, no
residence phone; office, 111 Chambers,
residence, N. Main St.

38. Shewmake, E, F.—Phone 139; office,
317 Chambers, residence, Concord St.

39. Schenck, L. B.—Office, 219 Cham-
bers.

40. Theis, O. J—Phone 161; office, 317
Chambers, residence, Woodland St.

41. Truesdale, J.—Office, 101 Cham-
bers. i

42. Vowles, G. R.—Phone 162; office, 317
Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.

43. Weaver, W. R.—Office, 303 Cham-
bers.

44. Williams, J. P—Phone 170; office,
108 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

45. Wood, W. W—Phone 151; office,
207 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

“Doctor: “And remember, you'll have
to eat plain food and not stay out late at
night.”

Patient: “Yes, that is what I've been
thinking ever since I received your bill,”

Davidson-Army Game
Play-by-Play

At 2:15 the Davidson team came on the
field in single file and went through some
formations. Captain Brock practised drop-
kicking from the thirty yard line. The David-
son cheer leader, Heefner, had gone to work,
and the three hundred alumni answered him
with a will.

The captains are meeting in the center of
the field to toss the coin. Davidson won the
toss and chose the South goal. Brock kicks
low to Murrell who allows the ball to go
over the goal line. Army bring it out to the
twenty yard line and high kick is downed
by Cagle on the Army 32 yard line. David-
son first and ten. King smashes off right
tackle for 4 yards, downed by Murrell. Fra-
ley gains a yard at center tackled by Price.
A pass by Brock failed. Fourth down and
five to go. King made five yards on‘a criss-
cross but not allowed because the referee
had blown his whistle.

Army’s ball on downs. Murrell kicks to
Army’s 47 yard line where. the ball was
downed by Humber.

Davidson first and ten. King forced out of
bounds without gaining an inch. McCall tried
a smash at center but O’Keefe stopped him.
A pass Fraley to King was incomplete. Brock
kicked out of bounds on Army’s five yard
line.

Murrell kicks to McCall who was downed
by Price on the Army thirty yard line. A
smash at center by McCall netted two yards.
McCall gained two more yards on a wide
sweep around left end. A pass by Fraley was
knocked down by Malloy. Another pass by
Brock to King was knocked down by Cagle.

A quick kick by Cagle was downed by
Cartmark on Davidson thirty-three yard line.
McCall. gained nothing at center. King
smashed between center and right guard for
five yards and was stopped by Miller. Brock
kicked to Bowman who returned it ten
yards. Downed by Mason on Army forty
yard line, Cagle made five yards but David-
son was offside. A pass, Cagle to Bowman,
was fumbled and recovered by Mathis.

Parrish around right end for nine yards.
Fraley took the ball to Army's forty-one
yard line for first down. King fumbled when
tackled by Murrell. Murrell off left tackle
for nine yards. Cagle zigzags to Davidson's
eighteen yard line where downed by King.
O'Keefe lost a yard on a trick end run.
Cagle around right end for seven yards.
Murrell gained a yard at center but was
stopped by Mason. O'Keefe dropped a kick
over the goal posts for the first score. Army
3, Davidson 0.

O'Keefe kicked to Parrish who fumbled,
recovered, and to his 42 yard line. Gibner
replaced Bowman. King lost two yards on a
wide sweep around left end. Messinger in for
Malloy, Cartmark stopped King after making
a yard off ‘tackle. Brock kicked to Gibner
who was ‘downed in his tracks by Brown on
the twenty-yard line. End of quarter: Army
3, Davidson 0.

Cagle got five yards at center but was
called back because of starting tto soon. Mur-
rell kicked to McCall who was downed by
Messinger on his own 39 yard line. Hillberg
for Cartmark. Lazar for Miller, Spangler.
for Perry; Suarz for Hillberg, McLean for
Humber. Fraley tried an end play and Army
was penalized 15 yards for holding. Stuart
for Cagle. King around end for five yards.
McCall made a wide $weep around the other
side going to Army 38 yard line. Fraley
smashed through center for’ three yards,
tackled by Price. McCall fumbled after mak-
ing a yard. Fraley tried a pass but it was in-
complete. Brock passed to King for thirty
yards, and King raced across the goal line.
The placement was good by Brock. Davidson
7, Army 3. :

Fletcher for Messinger. Game halted while/
McCall had a new jersey put on. Brock
kicked to Army nine yard line where Murrell
returned it to the twenty-five yard line before
being stopped by Mason. McCall threw.
Stuart for a five yard loss. Stuart smeared
by Covington after gaining three yards. Mur-
rel kicked to McCall on the thirty yard line
where he was downed by Hiilberg. McCall
made one yard on a fake kick. Mutchins for
Stuart. King got a yard around left end.
Green for Murrell. Milton for Raker. A
pass, Fraley to McCall was good, McCall
being stopped on Army 36 yard line. Another
pass by Fraley was knocked down, by Hill-
berg. One yard was added. Brohard starting
fast made eight yards. On the next play

Brohard took the ball to Army’s 19 yard
line. Crabb for Hillberg. Bradshaw for Bro-

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE
Hours MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
P. M. Glee Eu and £ Glee Sigma Pi Glee ~
7:00 Club Phi Lit. Club Sigma Club
Societies ‘
Fo eee Mu Beta Court of Scabbard Alpha Phi Omega Phi
8 :00 Psi Control and Blade Epsilon Alpha
Omicron Gamma Delta
9:00 Delta Sigma Pi
Kappa Epsilon Kappa
Alternate Weeks
i Glee Eu and Glee IL R.C.
7:00 Club Phi Lit. Club
Societies
a Court of Biology Eta Sigma
8:00 Control Club Phi
Sigma Sigma
9 :00 Delta Psi Upsilon

hard. Fulton replaced Price. M. Bradshaw
went in for King. McCall failed to gain at
center. A pass by Fraley was grounded. A
pass by Bradshaw was intercepted by Mc-
Lean. Pass by Hutchinson was incomplete.
Hutchinson went around right end for 11
yards, Hutchinson kicked to Davidson's 37
yard line. M. Bradshaw gained a yard at
center. Proctor for Brown, Mills for De-
camp, Parker for Mathis. Brock punted to
Gibner who was forced out of bounds by M.
Bradshaw on Army’s 32 yard line. Hutchin-
son tried a long pass to Crabb but it was in-
complete. McConnell for Mason. McConnell,
blocked Hutchinson’s pass to Green. Army
penalized five yards. Hutchinson made five
yards at end, tackled by Proctor, Hutchin-
son kicked to McCall as the half ended.

Lineups of both teams are same as started
the game. Davidson protects south goal.
Brock kicks to Murrell, who was down on
Army twenty-five yard line. Cagle around
left end for no gain. W. Bradshaw in for
Brohard. Army penalized fifteen yards. Mur-
rell kicked to King on the forty yard line.
King swept around left end to Army’s twenty
yard line. King gained a yard. Bradshaw
failed to gain. Fraley’s pass was incomplete
but Army was offside. Fraley passed again
but it was no good. Brock passed to McCall
who made it first down. Davidson penalized
fifteen yards for holding. A pass Fraley to
Brown was incqmplete just rolling out of
Brown's hands. Bradshaw made ten yards,
A pass Brock to McCall. was incomplete.
Davidson penalized five yards. Brock tried
a field goal but it failed. Ball in play on
Army's twenty-five yard line. Cagle got five
yards. Murrell made it first down. Cagle was
stopped by King after making two more
yards. Cagle missed first down on the next
play by inches. Murrell carried the ball to
Davidson's 40 yard line. Cagle gained two
more yards. Cagle passed to O'Keefe, who
was stopped on the 11 yard line. Murrell
smashed to the six yard line being stopped
by King and MeCall. Cagle went to the
goal line through center. Murrell carried it
over for a touchdown. O'Keefe made the
extra point by placement. Army 10, Davidson
7.

Brock kicked out of bounds on the Army
37 yard line. O'Keefe made seven yards on
a fake kick. Cagle passed to Murrell who
was run out of bounds on the Davidson 27
yard line. Parrish replaced Bradshaw. Cagle
passed to Fletcher for nine yards. Murrell
went to Davidson’s nine yard line. Cagle
swept around right end for touchdown and
he dropkicked for the extra point; it was no
good, Army 16, Davidson 7.

O'Keefe kicked to Brock, who was run out
of bounds on the thirty-five yard line. Faking
a pass McCall made ten yards. King around
right end for two yards. Murrell stopped
him. Brock kicked to Bowman, out of bounds
on 37 yard line. Murrell got five yards off
left tackle being stopped by McCall. Cagle’s
pass was no good. Cagle made five yards,
but Army penalized fifteen yards. Murrell
kicked and. the ball was downed by Cart-
mark on Davidson 47 yard line. Lazar stop-
ped McCall at center for no gain. End of
quarter.

A pass by Brock was intercepted by Cagle.
Cagle tried a wild forward pass. Davidson
penalized five yards. Cagle seeing his path
blocked reversed his field and passed a long
one to Fletcher who muffed it. Murrell faked

a pass and went to Davidson’s 32 yard line,

Cagle’s pass was incomplete. King stopped
Murrell after making two at center. Marpall

tackle. Stuart replaced Cagle. Stuart swept
_round left end for touchdown. O'Keefe added
extra point!by placement. Army 23, David-
son 7.

O'Keefe kicked over the goal line and
it was brought out to the 20 yard line. Bun-
ker for Lazar, Bell for Bowman, Golden in
for Murrell.’ McCall gained two yards at
center and was tackled by O’Keefe. Brock’s

kick went outside on Davidson 37 yard line.

Hillberg for Cartmark. Price for Hillberg.

for FletcHer. O’Keefe added three off left)

Fultin for Humber. Suarz for Price. Blakely
for O'Keefe. A pass by Stuart was incom-
plete. Bradshaw for Parrish. Golden got five
yards at tackle, downed by Decamp. Golden
kicked over goal line. Hutchinson for Stuart,
Green for Golden, Spengler for Perry. Mc-
Call around right end for five yards. King
failed®to gain at center. Brock kicked~to
Bell on 40 yard line where he ran it back
seven yards. Brown stopped him. Green went
to the thirty yard line. King got him. Mills
for Raker. Hutchinson got three yards
tackled by Mills. Green gained five on same
play, Mason stopping him. Carver for Green.
Hutchinson got a yard at center. Piper for
Blakley. Stecker for Hutchinson. Gibner for
Bell. Davidson held for downs the ball going
&over on her fifteen yard line. Maxwell for
Price. Bradshaw failed at center. King made
five at center. Parham for Fulton. Brock
kicked to Gibner who fumbled but recovered
on Army's 49 yard line. Crabb for Hillberg.
Stecker got a yard. Army penalized fifteen
yards for holding, on next play. Stecker
made fifteen yards but Army was offside.
Davidson took ball on downs on thirty-six
yard line. A pass Fraley to Brock netted nine
yards. Proctor replaced Brown. Pass by Fra-
ley grounded. Pass Bock to Bradshaw was
incomplete. Penalized five yards. Brock
kicked over goal line. Carver made five yards
on spinner play. Baker for Mason, Christian
for Parrish, Dempsey for Gibner, Carver
made two yards, Carver forced out of bounds.
Messinger for Marshall. Stecker made two
yards off left tackle. Carver kicked out of
bounds on Army 49 yard line. Parker for
Decamp. Brock’s pass was wild. Gordon for
Spengler. A long pass Brock to Christian
was good, carrying the ball to Army 28 yard
line. Broék’s pass intercepted by Carver who
was tackled by Christian as the game ended.
Score: Army, 23; Davidson, 7.

Stranger: ‘What is your line?”

Bootlegger: “I’m in the public utility
game.”

Stranger: ‘“How’s that?”

Bootlegger: “Oh, I help to keep the
public lit up.”

Musical Aspirant: “Professor, do you
think I'll ever be able to do anything
with my voice?”

The Expert: “Well, it might come in
handy in case of shipwreck.”

A AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AL

STUDENTS, | -
ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students de-

siring fascinating, remunerative
work either temporary or perma-
nent, may I suggest that many stu-
dents of both sexes have earned
scholarships and cash sufficient to
defray all college expenses, repre-
senting national magazine publish-
ers. If’interested, write or wire for
details—M. A. Steele, National Or-
ganizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New

York, N. Y.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

You'll always find a well-equipped

FELLOWS!

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

“VOILA!”

A stiff exam, a round o’ gym,

Demand your vigor, verve and vim;
Ambitious studes must keep in trim:
Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim:

“Excel, sir!’

CHARLOTTE,

SEE «o HEAR

The New
VICTOR MICRO-
SUNCRONOUS RADIO
AND RADIOLA

See Chem At
PARKER GARDMNER CO.

16 West CIrade St.

Victor &
Brunswick
Records~
Furniture
And

ec. Draperies

