(GREAT minds have pur-
poses; others have wishes.

—Washington Irving.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

WILDCAT CAGE TILT IN
CHARLOTTE

SATURDAY

Vol. XVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, JANUARY 10, 1929

No. 14

Captain Elkins Urges
Aid For Band Uniforms

$195.50 Has Been Collected From
tside Student Body

YOUNGER ENDORSES WORK

Band Will Not Be Part of R. O.
T. C. Unit But Will Be Student
Organization

Monday morning at chapel the proposi-
tion of buying uniforms for the David-
son College band was placed before the
student body for the first time. “The
movement has been going on for several
weeks but the student body as a whole
had not been asked to contribute any-
thing to the fund. - i

Bob Kell introduced Capt. Elkins, who
is in charge of the uniform drive, to the
students. Capt. Elkins has already done
quite a large amount of work, having
collected $195.50 from outside the stu-
dent body. He is now asking the students
to contribute $200 toward the fund. He
emphasized the fact that the band is not
to be the R. O. T? C.band but the David-
son college band. To buy complete uni-
forms for the band will cost $900 but
ony about half of this amount is to be
collected at present. This amount will
provide the band with caps, capes and
trousers.

Coach Younger then gave his approval
of the idea of having a uniformed band
to parade at athletic contests and other
occasions. He told of attending the Tech-
Georgia game last December and how
both bands paraded between halves, the
Georgia band being dressed in uniforms
of the same color and design as those
proposed for the Davidson band. Coach
“Monk” stated that he was well pleased
with the appearance of the uniforms.

A meeting between Capt. Elkins and
the class presidents was held last Friday
night and it was decided that the presi-
dent of each class would conduct a drive
in their class to collect the amount al-
lotted to them from the members. The
amount will be approximately fifty cents
per student. It is possible also that the
faculty will be asked to contribute some-
thing.

Most of the students realize the asset
it will be to the college to have a uni-
formed band to parade on the field be-
tween halves of the football games and
are heartily in favor of the proposition.
If the students cooperate with their class
presidents it is hoped that the full amount
may be collected before exams.

STATE SECRETARY
VESPER SPEAKER

Mr. J. W. Smith, “Y” Official,
Brings Message to Students
Sunday

“Straight is the gate and narrow the
way that leads to life here’ as well as
hereafter,” declared Mr. J. Wilson Smith,
State Secretary of City Y. M. C. A.’s, at
Y Vespers Sunday evening in Shearer
Hall.

The Scriptural ‘basis for the message
is found in Matthew 7:14: €/Strait is the
gate and narrow the way, which leadeth
unto life, and few there be that find it.”
This, indeed, is the answer of the Master
when we are seeking to live that “abund-
ant life” which He has made possible for
all of us.

Certain fundamental facts are present
today and are just as true as they were
many centuries ago. Significant among
these lasting principles is the truth that
the only way to fullness of any phase
of life is through the narrow way of
sacrifice.

In the realm of physical life, the man
who demands. liberty and the right to do
as he pleases will never break a track
record or gain a healthy body. Babe
Ruth’s struggle with his appetites and
his success after an earlier failure affords
a striking example: of this principle.

In the field of the intellect, the neces-
sity of sacrifice in following a narrow,
prescribed course is no less true. The
student who insists on his unhampered
freedom in reading and studying will
find his mind filled with a chaotic mass
of half-truths and meaningless informa-
tion.

The great artist who is able to sway
the feeling of men through his ability
as a musician or a painter likewise owes
his success to a faithful following of
a narrow path of daily toil.

The possession of spiritual greatness

(Continued from page 3)

Milton to Address
Alumni Conference

“Financing the Alumni Program”
to be Subject

Ernest Milton, secretary of. the David-
son College Alumni association, has been
selected as one of the speakers at the
regional conference of the American
Alumni Council meeting in Richmond on
January 19. His subject will be “Financ-
ing the Alumni Program.”

The conference will be under the di-
rection of Richard E. Thigpen, of Duke
University, who has been chosen as act-
ing chairman. Others who will speak on
the day’s program will be Miss Florence
H. Snow, president of the American
Alumni Council; J. Maryon Saunders,
Alumni Secretary of the University of
North Carolina; Dr. Edwin A. Alderman,
president of the University of Virginia;
Dr. William T. Hodges, of Williata and
Mary College, and others.

Vital problems of aumni work will be
given intensive study during the day
meeting, of the conference. Experts will
speak on each feature and open forum
discussion will follow each address.

Luncheon will be served at the Hotel
Richmond, which will also be the scene
of a formal dinner, at which Dr. Alder-
man will deliver his address.

Mr. Milton is one of the younger alum-
ni‘workers of this section, yet he has made
Lexceptional progress in instituting an
active alumni association at Davidson.

Campaign For China
Funds Nears Finish

Though interrupted by the sudden
wave of influenza which caused the col-
lege to close nearly a week early, the
campaign undertaken by the local Y. M.
Cx A. to raise one thousand dollars for
the support or partial support of Frank
Price, the college's missionary in China,
has not been in any sense a failure.

To date, two-thirds of the total amount
has been raised, and less than two-thirds
of the possible contributors have been

(Continued on page 3)

Darden Edgerton

Darden Edgerton, freshman
of Kenly, N. C., is reported to
be improving after his opera-
tion for appendicitis Saturday
afternoon at 3:00 o'clock, Dr.
Monroe, of Charlotte, states that
although Edgerton is not yet out
of the danger stage his condi-
tion is as well as could be ex-
pected. Edgerton is in room
222 Charlotte Sanitorium and
would papreciate it if any of his
friends would drop in while in
Charlotte.

hy

LOCAL FRATERNITY
VOTES TO DISBAND

Sigma Delta Social Ceases Activ-
ity as Local Organization

Announcement was made just preced-
ing the recent holidays of the dissolution
of the Sigma Delta social fraternity, a
local group which has been in activity
here since 1924.

Officers in the fraternity gave as the
reason for the disorganization, the “lack
of sufficient available material.”

With the removal of this body Davidson
now has nine national social organiza-
tions, including Delta Theta Chi recently
granted Phi Delta Theta Charter, and
one local lodge.

Just what disposition will be made with
the house formerly used by the Sigma
Deltas has not been announced but several
propositions being considered, the
most serious of which is that the hall be
used as a general social center for men
having no fraterniay connections, with
the distinctive requisite that no local fra-
ternity be developed. Officials the
college on the fraternity and social com-
mittee together with students
sidering advisable procedure
this and other suggestions.

are

of

are
regarding

con-

The furniture and equipment used by
the fraternity remains in the house at
present and its disposition will depend
largely upon what may materialize .with-
in the student body and their desires in the
matter.

Fri. Set As Date Of Phi

Dr. Archibald Henderson of
U.N. C., Will Deliver the
Principal Address

One of the most outstanding events on
the calendar of activities at Davidson
College will be the annual initiation exer-
cises of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa, national honorary scholastic fra-
ternity, which are to be held at Davidson
on»riday night, January 11th, when
Dr. Archibald Henderson, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, will make the
principal address. At that time a num-
ber of the Davidson College students and
alumni will be initiated into the local or-
ganization.

Dr. Henderson, who is the Kenan pro-
fessor of mathematics at the University
of North Carolina. His educational pre-
paration was obtained at the University
of North Carolina, is a nationally known
figure in the educational world and per-
haps can easily claim the distinction of
being the best-known writer and lecturer
in North Carolina. His educational pre-
paration was obtained at the University
of North Carolina, University of Chicago,
Cambridge University, University of
Berlin, and The Serbonne. He is the
author of approximately twenty books,
has wrttten many articles for important
magazines, has edited a number of liter-
ary periodicals, and is frequently extend-
ed invitations to deliver lectures at the
leading educational institutions of Ameri-
ca. :
These ceremonies are generally staged
in December before the Christmas holi-
days, but were purposely postponed this
year so that Dr. Henderson could be
present to make the main address. It
was impossible for him to fill an en-
gagement last December, and because the
local chapter had unanimously chosen him
as a speaker, they readily decided to de-
fer the exercises until next Friday night.

The private initiation of those who
have accepted invitations to align them-
selves with this organization will be at

7 o'clock, immediately followed by Dr.

Beta Kappa Initiation

Henderson's lecture, which is a public
address. Many Phi Beta Kappa men are
expected to attend the exercises, no matter
what institution they attended. Officials
of the Davidson chapter announce that all
Phi Beta Kappa members have an invita-
tiotr to the banquet, which s to be served
after Dr. Henderson's speech. Prof. K.
J Foreman, secretary of Davidson, will
receive such notification.

Davidson students who have accepted
the invitation of the Gamma Chapter are
M. T. Gilmour, of Wilmington; J. B.
Moriarity, of Ripley, Tenn.; J. R. Gra-
ham, of Hamlet; W. K. Pritchett, of At-
lanta, Ga.; W: L. Dumas, of Talladega,
Ala., and R. R. Kane, of Atlanta, Ga.
Davidson alumni notifying their accep-
tances are, Dr. Everad Wilcox, promin-
ent physician of Augusta, Ga.; Dr. C. F.
Arrowood, professor of educational psy-
chology at the University of Texas, Aus-
tin, Texas, and E. R. Campbell, outstand-
ng lawyer of Denver, Colo.

Cham Appears
Easter

The next issue of the college
magazine, The Chameleon, will
probably be ready for the in-
spection of the student body
dhortly before Easter. There
will be no radical change in the
general make up of this num-
ber, the content being along those
lines laid down at the first of the
year. In accordance with the
usual policy, the color for the
cover will be changed to a light
gray. A possible new feature
will be an exchange department,
a very important item which has
.been missing heretofore. It is
expected that the Book Review
Department will be enlarged,
much to the gratification of all
booklovers. This issue will be
the last appearance of the mag-
azine for the year 1928-29.

PROFESSORS’ CLUB
ORGANIZED AT D.C.

Chapter of American Association
of Professors Installed

Recently there was organized at David-
son a chapter of the American Associa-
tion of University Professors. This as-
sociation is a national organization with
chapters at over 250 leading colleges
and universities. The chapter here is
made up of eight members of the faculty.
These professors held their first meeting
before Christmas in which they formed
a chapter, elected officers, and delegated
Dr. C. R. Harding as a representative to
the fifth annual meeting of the Associa-
tion, held in New York during the latter
patt of December.

The members at Davidson are: C. R.
Harding, Frazer Hood, T. W. Lingle,
J. M. McConnell, D. R. McGrew, C. M.
Richards, G. R. Vowles, G. B. W. Watts.
The officers are: Dr. Vowles, president,
and Dr. Lngle, secretary.

In order to be eligible for membership
in the association one must hold or must
have held for three years the position
of a full professorship in an accredited
college or university. According to offi-
cers of the chapter, the local organization
plans to augment its present membership
greatly in the near future.

The purpose of the organization is to
secure the full rights and privileges of its
members as college professors. It takes
care of the questions of stability of tenure
of position, and freedom as a_ teacher.
It also attempts to secure reasonable and
justified increases in the salaries of mem-
bers.

In these ways it is trying to elevate the
profession of teaching and to secure for
professors salaries on a par with those
made by people in other walks of life.

A committee placement is to be
established to take the place of teachers’
bureaus, and to keep tab on yacanies in
the profession and unoccupied teachers
who may fill these vacanies.

PI KAPPA ALPHAS
CONVENE IN TEXAS

Dr. Arbuckle and Kirkland Attend
Meeting

on

The Phi Kappa Alpha bi-annual con-
vention was held this year at El Paso,
Texas from Dec. 31 to Jan. 3. The local
chapter. sent as its delegate L. D. Kirk-
land. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who has been
Grand Chancelor of the fraternity for a
number of years was presiding officer at
the There were about five
hundred members of the fraternity pres-
ent. This included delegates all
the chapters and alumni clubs.

On New Years day all the delegates
went to Juarez, Mexico, which is just
across the line from El Paso, There they
attended a bull fight; this proved to be
i new type amusement of
the visitors,

convention,

from

of for most

The convention of this fraternity, which
is held every two years, will be held in
1930 at Memphis, Tenn.

OVER 150 MEN ARE
TAKING, EXERCISES

It has been announced from the office
of the Athletic Director that a trophy
will be presented to the man showing
the greatest physical development in the
next two months attained from the body
building exercises, conducted in the gym-
nasium every afternoon at
o'clock. These exercises are conducted
by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Athletic
Director. Final measurements _ will
made on February 28th.

Much interest is being shown by the
students in this activity. Over 150 men
are taking the exercises.

Captain Pritchett announces that any
man who takes these exercises for two
months should increase four inches
muscle deveopment.

The exercises are conducted in conjunc-
tion with the general physical develop-
ment program of the Athletic Association.

T. E. HILL TO HEAD
MINISTERIAL BAND

Warren and Norfleet Also Elected
_ Officers

Officers of the Ministerial Band for the
spring term were elected and installed
Sunday afternoon, Jan. 6. A ruling of

be

in

the organization is. that the President

four-thirty.

Phi Delta Theta Grants
Charter To Local Frat

HARPER CHOSEN AS
FOOTBALL CAPTAIN

Close Elected Varsity Manager
For Coming Season

At a meeting of the football letter
men held just before the Christmas Holi-
days began. Henry Y. Harper, fightng
guard on the 1928 Wildcat Gridiron ma-
chine was elected to captain the team
during the 1929 season. At the some
meeting, Thad Brock was elected alternate
captain, Edward C. Close was elected
varsity manager, and Sloan Y. Cassels
was elected freshman manager.

Harper of Oak Hill, Ala., is a mem-
ber of the senior class, and during the
past football season proved that he could
play the line with the best of them.
“Piggy” is a hard driving, consistent play-
er, and his work during the season which
has just closed has evoked much favor-
able comment. He is a member of Theta
Upsilon Omega, social fraternity.

Thad Brock, of Barium Springs, N» C.,
and a member of the Sophomore class,
played a jam-up game at end for the
Wildcats ths season, and was placed on
the mythical All-State eleven by a large
majority of the sports critics and writers
of the state. Besides his heady work
at end, Brock did most of the punting
for the Wildcats.

Ed Close, who has been elected varsity
manager of football for 1929, hails from
Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is a promi-
nent member of the junior class, and is a
member of the Pyramid Club.

Sloan Cassels, 1929 manager of the
Wildkittens is from Montgomery, Ala-
hama. He is a member of the junior
class, and is a member of Kappa Sigma,
social fraternity,

“Rainbow Revue’’ is

Set for Later Date

Every Date for Holidays Causes
Change of Plans

The “Rainbow Revue”, which was to
have been presented in Shearer Hall be-
fore Christmas holdays as a part of the
entertainment during the Christmas par-
ties, will be given the early part of March.
The tickets for the show are still good
and will be honored when the play is
given. Owing to the severe epidemic
of ‘flu’ and the closing of school the
reyue was put off indefinitely. All parts
had been worked up to a point of per-
fection and it was with keen disappoint-
ment the post-
ponement was made. All songs and chor-
well learned and the
would have gone on the night after col-
lege closed.
full of pep.
the year,

to those concerned that

uses were show
The program is spicy and
It will be given later on in

The exact time for the presentation of
the revue has not been set.
nounced by Zeb Long, the president of
the Junior class, that the date would
probably be during the first part of March,
probably before the spring recess. The
exact date of the revue wll be announced
next week.

It was an-

The tickets that were sold before the
holidays will be good at any time the
show is given. If anyone prefers a re-
fund of money, they may have the same
by seeing Bill McQuire in room 1 West.
The price of admission for the revue,
when given, will be the same.

must come from the Senior class, the
vice-president from the Junior class, and
the Secretary-Treasurer from the Sopho-
class) By Fill elected
President ; A. M. Warren, vice-president ;
and M. W. Norfleet, Secretary-Treasurer.
The retiring officers are: E. P. Moye,
President; F; D, Miller, Vice-President ;
A. B. McClure, Secretary-Treasurer.

All of the newly-elected officers made
short speeches of acceptance, in which
each expressed his appreciation for the
honor conferred upon him, the desire for
further cooperation, and the favorable
prospects for the New Year.

The election was to have been held
December 16, 1928, but due to the unex-
pect close of school this election was ne-
cessarily postponed until the first Sunday

more was

after the holidays.

Delta Theta Chi Only Petitioning
Local Accepted

N. C. Gamma Chapter

Roland Parker, Ely, Lanier and
Greene Represent Davidson
Local at Conclave

Delta Theta Chi, local social fraternity,
Was granted a charter by the national fra-
ternity Phi Delta Theta at the thirty-
ninth biennial convention held in Nash-
ville, Tenn., Dec. 26-29 inclusive. The
Davidson chapter, to be known as N. C.
Gamma, will be installed sometime in the
latter part of February. :

Delta Theta Chi was officially repre-
sented at the conclave by John L. Ely,
Jr., of the Senior class as undergraduate
delegate, and Roland B. Parker, class of
26 and now member of the faculty of
Darlington School at Rome, Ga., as
alumni delegates. Mr. W. C. Wright
of Winston-Salem and alumni member of
the North Carolina Beta chapter at the
University officially presented the David-
son petition on the floor of the conven-
tion and was supported by speeches re-
presenting the solid South. Charles
Lanier and W. P. Greene attended as
special delegates from Delta Theta Chi.

Petitions were heard from local fra-
ternities located at Rutgers Universty,
Bucknell University, Mass. Institute of
Technology, University of Tennessee, La.
State University, and Davidson College.
The Davidson petition alone passed the
general convention and Delta Theta Chi
was the only petitioning local that passed
the special Committee on Chapters and
Charters by a unamious vote. It is also
of interest to not that this is one of the
few colleges that have received “charters
in the past forty years, most of the
expansion of Phi Delta Theta having been
directed toward the larger universities,

Delta Theta Chi was organized in 1921,
receved faculty recognition January 25,
1922, and began to actively petition Phi
Delta Theta in the fall of 1923, Through
a constant endeavor to build a fraternity
worthy of the petition being presented
to the national fraternity, Delta Theta
Chi grew and prospered. In the fall of
1917 Phi Delta Theta chapters of North
Carolina and Virginia recognized the ac-
tivities and standing of the petitioning
group and gave the petition their approval.
This approval by Delta Province placed
Delta Theta Chi in all advantageous posi-
tion for the general convention, '

Prior to the convention: literature Cot.
ting forth the Piedmont Carolnas, David-
son College, and Delta Theta Chi was
mailed to Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.
At Nashville a display room was outfitted
and these sane points again placed before
Phi Delta’ Theta Among the recom-
mendations on display were those of five
governors, and 33 college presidents rec-
ommending Davidson College.
mendations

Recom-

from: Davidson

fraternities,
Davidson faculty, and those of more than
135 Phi Delta Thetas were displayed to
show the standing of Delta Theta Chi.

Among the factors contributing to the
good fortune of Delta Theta Chi were
the calibre of the local group as well
as the unique excellence of Davidson Col-
lege as a Liberal Arts college and also to
the quality of the Davidson Student Body
asa whole. Phi Delta Theta also realized
the advantage of placing a chapter in
the Piedmont Carolinas, now known as
the growing industrial
South,

section of the

The Delta Theta is recognized in the
Greek letter world as being one of the
oldest wealthiest fraternities exist-
ing in the fraternity world today. It was
founded at Miami University December
26, 1848, and as Such is known as a mem-
ber of the famous “Miami Triad”: Beta
Theta Pi and Sigma Chi completing the
triad.

There are 96 active chapters, the David-
son chapter to be the 97th, covering the
United States from Washington Alpha
at the University of Washington to
Maine Alpha at Colby College in Maine.
There are also two strong groups located
at. McGill University and at the Uni-
versity of Toronto in Canada. Phi Delta
Theta owns 86 houses valued in excess
of $3,000,000.

Among Southern chapters of the fra-
ternity are those located at the universi-
ties of Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Texas;
also Duke, Tulane, Emory, Vanderbilt,
Georgia Tech, Washington and Lee, Se-
wanee, Auburn, and several others. Prom-
inent members have included many of

and

(Continued on page 3)
