Page Two f

THE DAVIDSONIAN

March 27, 1929

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

kly by the Students of
Published \ hoe ly College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

'RIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy

SB the Collegiate Year. Entered as second

class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

icles f blication must be in the hands
et Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday Anonymous articles will
aot be published.

AUBREY BROWN.-...--.- ... -Editor-in-Chief
W. M. PoWweLL, M
zl IAL STAFF ;
F. D. MILLER M ing Editor
C. M. PRATT Managing Editor
R. F. JARRA -—--Managing Editor
Z, V. LONG. Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON -News Editor
P. B i Society Editor
D.P. -Feature Editor
Ww. -Assistant Editor
L. BROWN...... Assistant Editor
R. LAKE.....-- Fiat tej Us
’ RIARITY.. ssociate Edi
io PRITCHETT. “Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

r ioe

. A, MILLS.-.-.

E. H. McCALL..

W. B. McGUIRE..

R. F. P.
H. B.
Gp olicitor
OG olicitor
ii, D. olicitor
k W. a Ver heer tieae
E. S, FNE cretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN \ F, BRESTON
Cc. H. DUBOSE WV. C, RAGIN

. R. GRAHAM D, RUSK 5s
k W. KIRKPATRICK ye R. Meee!
j. PY McBRYDE J..V. D. MIDDLETON

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1929

The Davidsonian
Wants

—to congratulate its editor-elect.
—to announce a change of staff
effective with the next issue.
—to commend ‘the Juniors for
their recent Junior “Speaking”

gram.

—to see the student body back a
winning ball team through a
successful season.

—everybody to know that there
will be no classes from Thurs-
day noon until 8:30 a. m. Wed-
nesday. (This is a NEWS-
paper.)

—to call attention to the fact
that there will be no paper next
week on account of spring holi-
days. Next issue April 11th.

—to thank students, faculty, and
all others who have helped the
staff, in any way whatever, dur-
ing the past year, and to urge
continued support of the staff
taking charge after Easter.

THE STUDENT’S RELIGION:
WHAT IS IT?
Consider these two quotations :
“The average college student
lays aside his spiritual beliefs for
atime.” (From a college paper).
“The provisional committee of
the Y. M. C. A. reported today
that interest in religion is in-
creasing among undergraduates.”
(From a Chicago news item).

subject. . Religion, nevertheless,
is playing a vital and important
part in American student life to-

day.

=" YOURS TROLY-

With the writing of the last
editorial and the supervising of
the last make-up, there come
mingled feelings of satisfaction
because of certain changes and
seeming forward steps, and of re-
gret caused by failure to accom-
plish many tasks which went no
further than the mind. But there
is a feeling stronger than either
of these, and that one is of grat-
itude to staff and helpers who
labored on issue after issue in or-
der that Davidson’s “weekly”
might breathe forth a bit of news.
To Professor Porter, faculty ad-
visor, and to many members of
the Faculty and Administration,
we owe thanks because of val-
uable suggestions and assistance
rendered.

Except for the opening engage-
ment with regard to the propriety
of the senior gift suggested last
spring, this volume has witnessed
only peaceful happenings—unless
one term an occasional magazine
review amiss. Perhaps this is
good and perhaps not. It may be
that there are—institutions here
which should have been fought
through the editorial columns —
but we know of none. Perhaps
the attitude has been too nearly
passive on other occasions—but
we think not.

It has been the purpose of the
present staff, since the writing of
what. might have been called a
policy, to approve and promote,
so far as possible, those things
which were worthy, and to dis-
courage and abolish, again within
the realm of the possible, those
practices and customs which
seemed out of accord. And so it
is with some degree of ‘satisfac-
tion ‘that we look back through
the files and note an editorial sug-
gestion which later, whether be-
cause of any motive power in the
suggestion or no, was deemed
worthy by some “powers that be”
and became a reality. It’s the
same kind of pleasure that comes
when one picks a winning team.

If this volume of The David-
sonian has, to any degree, achiev-
ed any recognition as successful,
it is because of the able, faithful,
and constant support of the edi-
tors from the Junior Class. Their
responsibility has been the great
one, and they have co-operated
with 6ne another and with the
members of the staff. in a manner
which is praiseworthy, to dis-

These two very different opin-|charge that responsibility.

ions raise the question as to what
part religion does play in the life
of college students, and what in-
fluence it has upon the undergrad-
uate mind. In most cases it is

To Pritchett, J. L. Brown, Mc-
Cutchan, Anderson, and Clark,
gratitude is hereby expressed for
their assistance as columnists on
the editorial page. Their work

true that the manner of expres-|has been of merit. To the other

sion of religious beliefs and active

participation in movements spon-
sored by the church, Y. M. C. A.,
etc., is somewhat altered. But
not appreciably so.

In some circles it has been pop-
ular to openly assert a belief in
nothing, proclaiming one’s self an
atheist. But usually, such asser-
tions are pseudo, hiding under-
neath a blase exterior a deep-
rooted faith that knows a true re-
ligion. Fo

These cases are not in the ma-
jority, however, if we are to. be-
lieve those who are in touchwith
student religious activity
throughout the nation today. The
testimony is that there is more
genuine interest; more inquiring,
testing, pulsating, religious en-
thusiasm than ever before.

And so, those charges that stu-
dents forget their religious train-
ing at college seem ill-founded.|
Perhaps ‘it is true, often, that
many students shift their atti-
tudes, remianing vaguely con-
scious of their religion, but fail-
ing to take the time necessary to

members of the staff, and to. the
reporters, we are also grateful
for faithful and efficient service.
Without them, there would have
been no publication.

As we cast a glance backward
We see many things which we be-
lieve would be for the betterment
of Davidson, which we did not
support publicly because of cer-
tain existing restrictions. There
are movements which can hardly
be brought into focus except
they receive comment through
publication, and yet, they must re-
main unmentioned. Until the
status is changed, no publication
can render its greatest service to
the institution and student body
which it represents.

If, in any manner, the purpose
of this “journal ‘has been more
nearly realized by the present
staff, we shall feel that the many
hours of -work- and worry have
not been in vain. Concluding, we
prophesy for the new editor and
his associates a successful volume
as they contirfue the “For a Bet-
ter Davidson.”

_ formulate definite beliefs in the

«

—="'30),?”

—=—=—=—=

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Meditations while hoofing: Rainy
baseball game, but good. ‘Hejira to
the entertainment at Charlotte, thru
paths of tornadoes an’ everything. At
last to the cot, but not till Saturday
morning.

Saturday, March 23. Up betimes, or
at the time that the sun was supposed
to be high in the sky. It wasn’t. To
classes somewhat as usual on Tues-
days, and Saturdays. Dick Flinn’s
large black felt, but not nearly as
startling as a certain orange one. A
premature rainbow revue. More
classes, and rain interrupting the pro-
fessors. Poor rhubarb!

In the afternoon to the. track meet
to see athletes slosh about in the
slush. John Currie firing the gun, re-
minding one of Fred Wagner. Thence
to the “Lady of the Pavements,” and
peanuts. They were ankle-deep in
places. An especially pleasing show,
aided by the Sunnyland Serenaders.
Good music, only failing to play “Son-
ny Boy,” on request.

After mingling somewhat with the
crowd, to the Rainbow Revue. Page
Flo Zeigfeld, Earl Carol, anybody!
And the Gastonia quartet! Honorable
amazement, as Neewah would say.
Plenty of heat and laughs at the pro-
fessors. H-m-m-m, a darn good show.
Patroling the avenues midst the cherry
blossoms, peach perfume and what not.
So to bed.
Recently the Pullman Company
named a car after Dr. Charles D. Mc-
Iver, founder of N. C. C. W. Doubt-
less this is an honor, but many intel-
ligent people have been non-plussed
to understand the number of peculiar
names with which Pullmans are chris-
tened. Having surpassed those. more
common names of animals, fowls,
countries, states, cities, and so on, the
official christener hastened in glee to
Indian tribes and Montenegrin princes.
The fact that these have been expend-
ed is witnessed by the fact that the
more prosiac Scottish and Irish cog-
nomens have been adopted. An hon-
or? Perhaps.

A rather startling and unconvention-
al editorial came to the writer's at-
tention the other day. The title of it
was, “Is the World a Chicago?” Spe-

cial note was taken of the recent
tragedy on Daytona Beach during
speed trials. [t will be remembered

that the driver and a cameraman were
killed in one of the worst accidents
ever witnessed. The public and world
demand speed; tests must be made.
They also demand pictures of out-
standing events; news-reels are pho-
tographed, The death of two men
means little to a speed-crazed, curious
people.

(This column might be attributed to
a huge barbecue sandwich I ate after
midnight last night. There is nothing
like a barbecue sandwich to make one
realize the seriousness of life on this
mundane sphere).

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

authority on the ultra-violet ray, says,
“The City of the future will be a city of
light.” This statement was made in
his house of vita glass, which allows
the passage of ultra-violet rays. Mod-
ern Sun worshippers, like Dr. Salady,
have produced wonderful evidence
showing the effect of light, natural
and artificial, on such diseases of dark-
ness as tuberculosis, rickets and lung
diseases,

Large cities lose something like 50
per cent of rural sunlight owing’ to
smoky. chimneys, and the death-rate is
higher during the dark months of the
year. In London there are right now
150,000 families living in one room per
family, huddled together, regardless
of age and sex. They are denied the
light of life.

Will the laundries participate in the
expectant farm relief? They make
their profits from the soil.

Why do newspaper correspondents
leave the Clark out of Mr. Hoover's
name? To be sure, he was christened
Herbert Clark Hoover, but he long
ago dropped the middle initial from his
signature,

It is astonishing how many famous
persons have succumbed to the lure
of the double spondee. Woodrow
Wilson, after experimenting with va-
rious combinations of names and
initials, dropped the Thomas when he
was still a student at the University
of Virginia. Cleveland's baptismal
Christian name was’ Stephen Grover,
but he will go down to history as sim-
ply Grover Cleveland: Similarly, Pre-
ident Coolidge had John for a first
name, but it seldom appears in print.
In fact, twenty of the Presidents wrote
their signature using only two names.
There is a dignity about the spondee
that the Greeks recognized when they
gave it that name, symbolic of the slow
measured melodies that accompanied
libations to the gods—such as poli-
ticians now make in their way.

The man who doesn’t know his own
mind hasn't much
quaintance,

missed of an ac-

The other day IT looked down a list
of new arrivals in the columns of the
New York Times and indulged in a
moment's day-dream of what will hap=
pen to these lucky little ladies and
gentlemen, just born into the chang-
ing world. (This day-dream was nec-
essary to complete this column.) They
will be the Children of Progress. Will
they have a better chance than we
had? Their fairy stories will include
the wonders of natural science. They
will be awakened very quickly to the
great adventure of knowledge, instead
of having it thrust upon them as a dull
dammed thing. How good to be a col-
lege man in 1950—if such things may

be!

OPEN FORUM |

ARE CHURCH AND CHAPEL
WORTHWHILE?

Mr. Editor:

Will you publish the following clip-
ping taken from The Christian Ob-
server?

—A.

1, Would you wish to have your col-
lege abolish its place and times of wor-
ship and have no religious interest?
Do you desire it to be purely material-
istic and to disparage or ignore those
fundamental principles of thought and
feeling which humanity has ever re-
garded as essential to character and
life in the highest sense?

If not, how about your attitude in
practice?

2. Is it your judgment that classes
and extra curriculum activities will
give you a well-rounded character and
life, without any times or occasions

and influences for cultivating your
finer emotions? |
3. Is it not helpful for us to pause

at times, for reflection, the searching
of conscience, and to let our hearts be
touched?

4. Do you want to live in a universe
that is without meaning, that has no
place in it for a divine mind and will
and love that guides the moral and
spiritual life of mankind; whose jaunty,
motto is, “Eat, drink and be merry?”

5. As you need teachers to guide
you in mathematics and coaches to in-
struct you in athletics, have you no
need of the guidance of teachers for
character, who will recall you to con-

life, from time to time?

6 You able to sit often for
several hours at theatre and movies;
is one Sunday hour out of 168 hours
of the week or 20 minutes each day out
of 1,440 minutes an exorbitant time of
restraint in which to think into your
heart and life and to compose your
mind? «

are

yy

7. Is the explanation that you need
this time for study or sleep an honest
reason or a plausible excuse? Indeed,
might not these quiet occasions be a
relief that would rest and help in your
studies? :

8 Are you’ so much freer from
témptation and the tendency to evil
than your father and mother, who feel
the constant neéd of divine help?

9. Is your complaint that the preach-
ers are “not interesting” (I admit it is
too often true) much more than an-
other manufactured alibi, and do you
always go when they are interesting?
Is the fault always with them or is it
in part because of something you have
not acquired; because you have not
cultivated the spirit of reverence and
the sense of worship?

to, Are you forming habits of neg-
lect which you would want your chil-
dren to inherit, and would you want
your mother and father to be like the
people of those habits in our com-
munity ?

If you have had a happy home, it is
largely due to the constant seeking of
ence and mother for light and
leading, for strength and wisdom be-
yond their own and the cultivation of
the sense of reverence for home, for

science and high ideals of thought and

Marriage, and for childhood.

Dr. Salady, European scientist and|°

72

FAREWELL!

this dormitory !)

after all. «

You bet that Tommy sees.”

He thinks too much:
Such men are dangerous.”

it has been profitable.

Paging Miss Prude!

bells. And that’s that.”

this famous lady of the world.

Curtain! Exit the Jester.

& FO BULL

Beethoven's immortal “Farewell to Music;” Washington's masterpiece,
his “Farewell Address”—and nowanother famous farewell is being written in
the sands of time. A farewell to the tenth Muse, the immortal Muse of Bull.
For in this issue -of Davidson's largest morning or evening newspaper is the
Grand Finale, by Miss Prude and the entire company of the Bull Pen (copy-
right Feb. 31, by yours laquaciously). With today’s last shovel full of bull we
take our bow—and it's “Exit the Jester.”

A year has passed since we got sucked-in on this job. And for one solid
year we have been cussing the editor of this column for being editor of this
column. Like the girl at N. C. C. W.
“Who writes that Bull Pen,” we have been wishing we could see the fool who
first took over the job—yours truly of a year ago, and tell him a few of the
inside points about said job. We would tell him how it is not so easy to
write it ‘as it is to read. That is a pain in the neck personified to type
four or five pages of supposed humor when you have just busted two re-
views, received a letter from your best girl telling about the other guy, and
have lost five dollars at a game of—er—checkers.

Cursed is the man with senseless humor?
cursed is the man without a sense of humor. The clown, the jester laughs
and amuses the king and his royal court.
isn’t always quite as big a fool as he looks.

“But Tommy ain't no bloomin’ fool,

4 -*

-

we expressed a desire to see the fool

(Dern those rat holes in

And yet—at the end of it sitting and thinking—it hasn’t been so bad

Well, maybe. But above all,

But underneath it all, the clown

Another year of life. As we live, we learn, Writing this space-filler this
year, Week after week without abreak, has taught us quite abit about
things, people, and life. And now we are all with Caesar:

“Let me have men about me that are fat,

Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’ nights:

Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look;

Most assuredly, cursed is the man with a sense of humor. He may be a
“success” in the eyes of the world, but still not live.
little frog in any size pond with plenty
blessings of nature than be a big frog in a crowded pond with nothing to do
but bellow out our importantance to lesser frogs.

We want to take time-out to thank the editor for getting us sucked-in on
this job. Though it is a suck-in in every sense of that slang expression, still
It has made us famous?
that grows on mortal soil.” But it has given us a more pleasant outlook on
life. It has endowed us with a sense of humor and given us many a pleas-
ant hour, Though it has been more or less of a duty to peck out for pages of
bull, it has pecked the blues out of us many a Monday night. If you want
to be happy, try doing something, though it be something foolish.

And now the mythical Miss Prude will say a word about the women.
Miss Prude, front and center.

“Hi, folks out yonder. The ed has asked me to classify the types of
women, There are two types (not blonde or brunettes, that is a superficial
classification designed by the man who courted a blonde and wanted to make
folks think he was a gentleman), One type of woman uses dumb-bells to get
color on her cheeks. The other type uses color on her cheeks to get dumb-

We had rather be a
of space to kick around and enjoy the

Bah! “Fame is not a plant

But now we must go. Every comedian entertains an expressed or unex-
pressed desire to pay Hamlet or Macbeth,
stories. of the seriousness of life we have ever read were written by such fa-
mous humorists as Irvin Cobb, Rube Goldberg, Ring Lardner and Will Rogers.
So, if by any chance you think we have won our spurs in comedy,
some of our seriousness which we hope to write some day. That story of the
bear in the barber shop—you know, “He died and she married the barber.”

Many thanks to any who have endured reading this column. Any one
being able to prove that they have read it three weeks straight running will,
by sending in such proof, get a life-size photo of

Why not? Some of the best

try reading

Miss Prude, autographed by

The editor wishes to thank those. who have
helped him—the two fellows who gave us a humorous magazine once.

You expected something funny, Well, that’s funny. You didn’t get it.
Au Revoir—a good old French word meaning “Close the door from the out-
side,” or “Come back and see us when we are out.”
A-women,

Contemporary Thought

THE GREAT GOD STANDARD.
IZATION

Daily Trojan:—In grammar school
they teach you how to write every little
“r” so that it will be identical with every
other little “r’’ that you or someone else
might have written. You must use the
Zaner method or the Palmer method—
you must standardize.

In education everywhere, if you are not
careful, they teach you how to think so
that you will think exactly as the rest
of the world thinks — standardization
again.

While it might be true that a certain
amount of standardization is necessary
unless we want to be anarchists, it is
just as true that, on the whole, standard-
ization does not make for any great
amount of general friendship and amity:
men quarrel because they are alike.

Let no one say that standardization is
not with us. It is, and it falls short of
doing for us the things that it advocates
credit to it. “Gentlemen may cry, ‘peace !
peace’! and think to gain peace by
teaching everyone the same thing. But
there is no peace, and, for that matter,
very little satisfaction of any kind, when,
in public schools and everywhere men
wave the flags of nationalism, nationalism
everywhere alike in being jealous and
controversial,

Standardization seems the god. of mod-
ernity; it brings, perhaps, what is called
prosperity, but it brings also persecution
for those who would dare to disgrace, as
they are allowed to disgrace under the
new—disregarded bill of rights. -

Small wonder it is that Sinclair Lewis
wrote about Babbitt. Small wonder, too,
that extremists as H. L. Mencken should
have the following that they do. When
people protest against custom, they are
often inclined to go to extremes.

By all means, let the schools strive to

obtain, not masses thinking as a unit, but
units thinking in terms of mass. It
benefits not, in fact it better not, that each
“r” be like like every other “r.” It is
better to realize that human beings will
remain human beings, as will their chil-
dren after them: they will not be alike.

He who laughs last may be the
dumbest.

And there is romance for the
lady bootlegger if he loves her
still.

Dizzy Izzy wants to know if
they speak of the moon’s being
silvery because it comes.in halves
and quarters.

. Note the kinship of baseball
coaches and ~ revue producers.
Both are worrying about the
shape of their players.

If experience is what you know
after you have made a fool of
yourself, some of us should be
highly experienced.

And why take life seriously ?
You'll never get out of it alive.
palit hak ih Een a eee
“What did the boss do when you told
him that it was triplets ?”

“He promoted me to the head of the
department.” BUS

“What department were you in?”

“Production.”

—Wildcat.

“Let's play college yi
“Wait till I get the sofa.”
