THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

i 3

CAROLINA OVERCOMES LEAD TO BEAT DAVIDSON

Wildcats’ Early Onslaught Rorées
Tar Heel First String to Contest

Side Line Shots

By P. R. Alderman

Whatever impressive facts were
brought to the minds of old Davidsonians
returning for the annual Home-coming
celebration, there must have been at least
one that ‘they won’t forget for another
year anyhow—that the Wildcats haven't
lost one bit of fight as the years go by.
In spite of nasty football weather and a
battle against almost unsurmountable
odds the Cats proved to their followers
that they had a team to be proud fo.

As “Doc” Charlie said, “Carolina
can’t put but eleven men on the field
at once,” which held true. But there
was nothing to keep them from run-
ning in eleven new men at one clip, a
right which they took advantage of
without hesitation. No team yet, not
even the Army, has ben able to stop
the Wildcats with their second-string-
ers and when the Tar Heels tried this
they didn’t take long to rectify their

error by sending in the pick of their
squad.

Of the 22 men on the field at one time
there was always one,outstanding—Cap-
tain Thad Brock of the Wildcats. Al-
though a star in every game this year,
never before has Brock demonstrated so
impressively his right to an all-state berth
and to serious consideration by those who
pick all-southern elevens. There were
others who were outstanding but none
were so consistently in almost every play
as he was. The Tar.Heels never forgot
that he was in the game.

Playing against such a traditional
foe as Carolina, the Red and Black
eleven showed such fight and ability
that they make it almost impossible to
single out many who were individual
stars. They were working together
and every man did his part to get a
victory or make winning hard for the
opposing team. There were too many
odds to be overcome for the Cats to
score a win but the Carolina men had
one of their toughest battles yet.

The Tar Heel eleven had pretty high
hopes of maintaining their high average
of 33 points on every team ‘they’ve played
this year, but it seems that the Wildcats
were determined to lower this even
though they couldn’t hand over a big up-
set and defeat their much stronger foe.
They got within one touchdown of their
goal but found too many red-jersied men
in their way to tally any more, in spite of
their efforts.

The visitors presented one little
trouble-maker for the Davidson
eleven who showed why and how he
has won the reputation that he now
enjoys—Shorty Branch. There have
been some speedy and elusive backs
seen in action on Richardson field this
fall but, in the writer’s opinion, this
diminutive sophomore quarter of the
Carolina squad would have to be call-
ed on to show them how it’s supposed
to be done. Although not tallying for
the visitors, he played a prominent
part in their win.

All the speed however, was not shown
by blue-jersied men. “Red” Parrish, in
one of the most spectacular plays of the
day, ran through the Carolina eleven and
then outdistanced two of their men to
score Davidson’s first and lone tally of
the day. Joe McCall and Don King didn’t
make things easy for the oppusing eleven
either. In fact, the Wildcat backfield
* proved a worthy match-for the “hundred
backs” of the Tar Heels.

Only the Turkey-day classic is left
now and the Cats will have ample
time to prepare for the Duke Blue
Devils’ invasion of Richardson field.
Judging from the State-Duke game
things are going to be just about even
Thanksgiving, and with a student-
body backing them the Wildcats are
going to be hard to stop in this last
game of the season. It won't be a
walkaway for either team, howeve-,
no matter who wins.

Captain Thad Brock | Plays Greatest
Game of Career

FINAL SCORE 26-7

Parrish Scores for Davidson While
Ward, Nash and Slusser Tally
For Visitors

The University of North Carolina turned
a fighting Davidson Wildcat team back Sat-
urday by a score of 26 to 7. The Tar Heels
did not have an easy afternoon by any means,
although it was obvious from the time that
Chuck Collins sent his first string team in
that Carolina would come off on the long
end of the count.

When one looks for the star of the game,
however, it is necessary to go to the left end
of the losers, and there is Capt. Thad
Brock. Playing bareheaded his jersey cov-
ered with mud, he turned in the best game
of any man on the field. He was time and
again crashing through to get the ball car-
riers from behind, or stopping’ plays that
came towards his end. Only once or twice
did a Tar Heel get around his position. As
outstanding as was his work in the line,
his punting was equally as brilliant:

Coach Collins pulled a Rockne stunt on
Davidson by sending in his second string,
but when Parrish broke through them in
the middle of the first period and ran 37
yards for a touchdown, he immediately put
his first string boys in. The latter received
and on the second play after the kickoff,
Ward broke through and carried the ball
68 yards to score, Spaulding kicking the
goal to make it seven-all. Early in the second
period, Branch returned a punt 25 yards to
midfield, and shot a pass to Ward who was
lying out near the sidelines, the latter trotting
across the goal line unmolested.

The other two scores for Carolina came
as the result of straight football. They scored
again in the second period after a march of
about sixty yards, and finally in the third
following a prolonged advance from their
20 yard line. Slusser put the first over, while
Nash scored the last tally.

Little Johnny Branch thrilled the specta-
tors time and again by his brilliant returns
of punts. He lived up to his name of “Ole
Man River” by just rolling along. Nash,
Ward, and Slusser proved to be the most
consistent fainers from scrimmage for Caro-
lina.

Farris almost hogged the show in the line,
but Lipscomb at center played a good game,
both on offence and defence.

Don King and Red Parrish both played
almost the entire game for Davidson, and
did it well. After McCall was forced out by
injuries, King handled the safety position
without a fumble. Brohard went in as a sub-
stitute and played a great game. It was his
first contest since the Clemson fracas. Joe
McCall played his usual brilliant .game until
forced out by his injuries. Fraley ran the
team well and backed up the line effectively.

DeCamp, Milton, Baker, and Mathis all
played very good games against the strong
Carolina line.

Line-up and summary :

Carolina Position Davidson
IN G18ON Soe ssa] See eee eee ous Brock
L.E.
Ott cesses Soe eee oes Racker
L.T. i

Molver vise eee eee Coes DeCamp
LG.

(CA Ae Mason
Center

FAN GRON ee ee bee Mathis
R.G

la tive tee seee es te ne oe Covington
RT

BrOWN! Sco eee we ems 2 Proctor
RE.

ackson ose Sada a Fraley
Q.B.

Me rickson oo ooo ire oe Parrish
L.H.

Mais 2 oo ooo McCall
R.H.

Hardens 2. 22o eee sencsuece King

| F.B.

Score by quarters:
Carolina ss ee 713 6 026
Da viddsons oe eet 700 0-7

Scoring touchdowns: -For Carolina, Ward,
2, Slusser, Nash. For Davidson, Parrish.
Extra point; for Carolina, Spaulding (place-
ment), Fenner (pass from Branch). For

Davidson, Brock (placement).

Freshmen Rally to
Beat Wofford Rats

Wildkittens Score Three Touch-
downs in Last Half

Steady Half-Back

+ —_
Wildcat-Tar Heel The Davidson Wildkittens got the Home-
coming Celebration off to a good start last
Summary Friday by defeating the Wofford College
Bavidicn Carolina Freshmen 18-13 on Richardson Field. This
was the second win of the season for the
First downs ----- 7 10 Frosh in four starts. After being decisively
Penalties -------- 15 yds. 30 yds. outplayed during the first half by the Wof-
ground gained ford Yearlings, who rolled up a 13 point
from lead in that period, the Kittens staged a
ta ----161 yds 214 yds. late rally the feature of which was a daz-
asses zling aerial attack which netted three touch- : ‘
attempted ---.- 12 9 The Wofford markers were made in the Red Parrish, Badin lad, whose fast
Passes first quarter on a blooked put which Jackson broken-field running has created com-
completed 1 3 fell on behind the goal line, and a 22 yard| ment, scored the first touchdown Satur-
Passes pass, touchdown being scored by Rogers. In day by a sensational 35-yard dash.
intercepted “1 1 the second half the Wildkittens opened up a
Ground gained passing attack which could not be stopped.
ye Sage ik 17 yds 41 yds. The first counter was ‘made on a 27 yard .
verage length - yass, Mills to Clarke. The second came after a , v
Punts and Mills had passed to Pierce for 18 yards, STOP
kickoffs ------- 36 yds 35 yds. Fleagle scoring on an end run, Pierce failed that
Av. length to kick goal and Wofford led 13-12, The COLD and COUGH
punts and winning marker was the result of a pass, take
kickoffs Mills to Pierce, which netted 30 yards and
returned ___---- 22 yds 13 yds. a touchdown. {dex
Fumbles -__------ 0 2 O as
Fumbles --_---.-- ae ‘
recovered __.._ 0 2 “It's funny I don’t remember limping Phe “QUICK RELIKF’ Cold Remedy for
Kickoffs and when I left home,” said a certain profés- Collpee Students, sold by a Colles. Student
sor as he walked down the street with YOUR vRUGGISI Jim Gatioway
eee eee x one foot on the curb and the other in the HAS COLDEX | U. of S.C. ~
gutter. — —_ ————
x tr .
~
G =

BROOKLYN BRIDGE
SPAN 1595 FT.

7 “SQAAANRS cm

“4 cA Ne
Nii

a

-

GILA BRIDGE

aN

'
Be 1 ey

SPAN 2373 FT.
ais

P

at

ARBES,

Nw: 'N

W =

aR,
AAA

All in a day’s work for telephone men

A specimen of construction work in the
Bell System is the new catenary span
carrying telephone wires across the Gila
River, Arizona. The “natural”’ obstacle is
no longer an obstacle while there are tele-
phone men to find a way through it or

over it.

This is but one example in a general ex-

pansion program. Others are such widely
varied projects as linking New. York to
Atlanta by cable, erecting 200 telephone
buildingsin 1929, developing a $1 5,000,000
factory at Baltimore.

The telephone habit is growing apace,

and the Bell System will continue to keep

a step ahead of the needs of the nation.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN’
