>

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
oO ice, Davidson, North Carolina,

>
a
=
=
e
a
x.
°
3
sc
i
=
=
»
=
i]
s
3
=
e
a
a
e
>
rs
i
a
ia
»
s
=
a
°
=~
oe
a
a

anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr.
E. H: McCALL

Editor-in-Chief

|

EDITORIAL STAFF

J. B, BLACK Managing Editor
ii W. McCUTCHAN. anaging Editor

UO) RBUINGRGdbdias ceuidiwaciesscc Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN id Athletic Editor
J. fi Roe paver hard dal maites
Pye oF; eee «: Sy -.-Feature itor
hk F. JARRATT. A i tor
F. D. MILLER A Editor
C. M. PRATT.. As

Editor

J. A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. ( BG BOYD Russia iis ee wc Subscription Mer.
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicit

. H. McKINNON. Solicitor
- O. MANN ------Solicitor
. E. RUFF. Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER nie Solicitor
Ssa===="“"==_—

REPORTERS’ CLUB

i]

. HEEFNER

President
----Vice-President

=

Ss
vo D. MIDD

; } LETON ..... cretary-T.

} & peree C. G. PEPPER.

iB C. MATTHEWS J. G. DUNKLIN
. G. MARTIN W. S. LEA

J. R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER

D. 0. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK

A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN

RF. NORTY G. P. PARDINGTON

ee

NOVEMBER 7, 1929
Sl
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Has high hopes of breaki the losi
streak this week, and at the dite ‘Gane

avenging last year’s defeat at‘
of Gus Tebell’s crew. ae vie poe

—Thinks every man on the campus should
ride, fly, or walk to Raleigh Saturday and
pull for that Wildcat team.

—Wants Doctor Charlie to take some extra

rabbit feet along to hoodoo the Wolfpack.

—Reminds the freshmen in particular and
everybody in general that today is the
meee to start pulling up those low
marks.

—Congratulates the newly elected O. D. K.
men.

—After seeing those freshmen in action pre-
dicts a whale of a team next year.
—Enjoyed Dean Vardell’s recital immensely

and appreciates the new organ more than
ever, -

—Is beginning to think about basketball and
admits that prospects are rosy.

O. D. K.

There is something stirring to the scene
which passes before the eyes of the student
body as Omicron Delta Kappa makes known
her choice of new members. Leadership is
being recognized, achievement is being hon-
ored, hard labor is winning approbation.
Omicron Delta Kappa is the student organi-
zation which confers its key upon the de-
serving, not only at Davidson, but at leading
colleges in all sections of the country, and
so great is the appeal of this honorary fra-
ternity that college men have come to look
upon it as a climax worth working for, as
a goal toward which to direct the best ef-
forts of their college activity. In so doing
they are making no mistake, for the man
who attains O. D. K. is almost certain to
have developed a well rounded personality
and ability for definite work.

Robert Edward Lee has been presented
as the ideal O. D. K. man because he pre-
sents a type of sterling character, of de-
termined effort, and of influential personal-
ity. No college man could do better than to
select as his one increasing purpose the per-
fection of his attributes, physical and spirit-
ual, along the line of such exemplary man-
hood. O. D. K. tries to uphold and to do
honor to the man who succeeds in this some-
times difficult task, and O. D. K. has as its
purpose the inspiration toward worthwhile,
unestish service for the welfare of the col-
ege,

It is a source of great satisfaction to the
student to be honored with an O. D. K.
bid, and especially so when his labors have
been consistent and sincere. If one considers

the attainment of O. D. K. desirable, he will.

be anxious and willing to give the best that
is in him to the activities for which he is
fitted and can adapt himself. An early start
is' necessary. Delay in beginning work‘is
costly in this as in any good enterprise. It
never becomes a matter of frantic concern

FOR THE COLLEGE

No more splendid gift has come to David-
son in recent years than the Skinner Organ
which now graces the auditorium of Cham-
bers Building, and which had its formal
dedication last Friday evening, For the en-
tire college, and for countless friends of
the institution, The Davidsonian expresses
heartfelt appreciation to Mrs. Cameron
Morrison, The interest and affection back of
such a donation make it all the more pre-
cious, and it is not to be questioned. that
coming years will find a deepening apprecia-
tion both of the giver and the gift.

It was a worthy idea which Dr. Lingle
advanced in his word of acceptance when he
said that thé organ would become a great
factor in both the cultural and spiritual de-
velopment of all who. heard it and reveled in
the expressiveness of its tones. Indeed the
organ can become a vital thing, a monument
to the name and spirit of Davidson, as it in-
spires future listeners to deeper devotion,
to more exalted thought.

Probably the founders of Davidson, back
in those days of limited materials and pros-
pects, dreamed of the time when the infant
school would boast adequate equipment for
all phases of education, and certain it is that
they dreamed too of equipment for the
esthetic growth and appreciation of the men
who were to call Davidson their Alma
Mater. So a real need has been met and a
fine old dream realized, and the future is
brighter by far because generosity found its
expression in the hands of one who cherishes
true devotion for the college. May occasions
of necessity ever be able to command faith-
ful helpers for Davidson because in every
trust she remains symbolic of the honesty,
of the purity, and of the achievement which
is education indeed.

DER TAG

Before so many moons have. elapsed
Home-Coming Day will be rolling around to
Davidson campus for its annual celebration
and a varied program of activities will be
under way. At this time it will not be amiss
to consider the possibilities for a truly suc-
cessful Home-Coming.

Thousands of visitors will ‘throng the
campus, and in this assemblage will be a
great number of alumni and close friends of
the college who will be interested in observ-
ing student life and habits at close range.
Fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters of Dav-
idson men will throng the campus fora first
hand view of the institution they have heard
so much about, and they must be given ev-
ery reason to maintain their admiration and
support of the college and its activities.

As student8 go through that day, enjoying.

the entertainments at hand and relaxing in
a holiday spirit, they ought to remember the
real purpose of Home-Coming. They ought
to think whose Home-Coming it is, and to
whom all courtesy and honor should be done.
Just a little serious thought in this matter
will prove enlightening to every Davidson
man and will help to realize the finest day
in the whole year’s program.

AS FOR DAVIDSON

As for Davidson, Queens sends them a
hearty welcome. There seems to be an
opinion at large that Queens.is of an un-
friendly nature, that visitors are not avel-
come, We feel this is a misplaced idea and
should be speedily corrected. We assure you
the fault lies not in our friendship, so per-
haps it is due to timidity.

Only a short distance of twenty miles sep-
arate Davidson and Queens, yet they are
almost total strangers. Rather they were
until Davidson took the matter in hand and
invited Queens to make their acquaintance.
There is nothing to prevent the two colleges
from becoming fast friends, from building
up a brother and sister spirit which should
rightly exist between two colleges so close-
ly associated. Davidson has already made a
name for itself in the field of success, and is
being recognized in its national contacts.
Queens is ever mounting in her popularity.
If these two forces could be molded into one
well-rounded program of ideas what could
stop them?

Welcome, Davidson! Queens is anxious to
do her part. Let’s feel free to call upon each
other for anything which might foster this
much desired friendship.—Queens Blues.

or worry—just steady, productive effort on
some important phase of campus activity,
with a background of character growth and
understanding as befits a leader of his fel-
low students, O. D. K. is a student organiza-
tion, and its possibilities as a factor for good
lie solely in the hands of the students. Hence
it behooves the man who hopes to become a
member of the order to place the emphasis
on the right things, and to set an example
which can only be taken as a noble one by
the outside world. °

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan |

Last week, in Charlotte, one of the leading
threatres presented a comedy, which, from all
viewpoints of the threatre, was good. The gags
were fresh, the actors pleasing, the technique per-
fect. In plot, it consisted of a clear farce on court-
room procedure. The satire of Lewis Carroll in his
story, “Alice of Wonderland,” will be recalled. The
Duchess, who shouted continually, “Off with his
head,” ably ridiculed the omnipentency of people
of royal blood. But none of the mythical char-
acters would have dared to use the judicious meas-
ures of this “mighty personage” as the basis of a
rollicking comedy. That which is laughed at is
seldom effective.

Music lovers will find room for rejoicing in the
fact that Ignance Paderewski and Fritz Kreisler
are to appear in Charlotte during theearly winter.
Recognized as two of the world’s greatest artists,
one of them has applied himself steadfastly toward
the complete mastery of his art, the other turned
aside, temporarily, to the task of leading his coun-
try. Paderewski has returned to the concert plat-
form. A true artist can never forsake his art.

Now, more than ever before, does the average
citizen appreciate good music. There was a time
when the approval of the crowned heads was
necessary to the success of the performer. Doubt-
less the hall will be filled to capacity when the two
artists, mentioned above, appear. This column does
not desire to cast reflections upon the lyric ability
of Gene Austin and Vernon Dalhart, but it is re-
freshing to see that a vast number of people really
appreciate the great operas and symphonies.

Ripley, in his entirely believable “Believe It or
Not,” tells the story of an aged couple who cele-
brated their 147 wedding anniversary. At their
bedside, for they died on almost the same day, was
their son who was 116 years old. His, that is the
son’s, two great-great-grandsons were also in at-
tendance. This would appear mythical to the
many idle rich habitues of Reno. All of which recalls
the fact that Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jr., who is heir
to millions but not idle, recently drove through
this state with his wife and chauffeur. His refusal
to accept the income of his father’s millions ap-
pears greater in that he entered the profession of
journalism, And he stuck to it!

With all due apologies to Eugene O'Neil, George
Bernard Shaw, and other “grates,” this column
desires to portray the following “tragic” scene.

HE WILL OR HE WON’T

A tradegy in one scene and one act. Time is
about three A. M. Scene is in the bed-room of
the Editor of The Davidsonian. Curtain rises with
loud snorts from the editor, who is in bed, and
sleeping, supposedly peacefully. Characters are:
The Editor, Feature Editor, Columnist, and Edi-
tor’s room-mate,

Curtain Rises

Editor: K-k-a-a-a-w-w-ww! K-k-a-a-w-w-ww!

(Enter Feature Editor, rather furtively.)

F, E.: Hey there, wake up!

Editor: (Turning over)—Huh?

F, E,: Here it is; it’s time for breakfast.

Editor: G’way, g’way. (Sitting up in bed). Here
what is? What’ja talking about?

F, E.: The effort, tickle pages, sparkling wit, red
hot straight from the luke warm pen.

Editor: Gimmee it, and g’way.

(Enter Columnist, hurriedly, with ruffled hair.)

Col.: Well, well, so you all have been strugglin’
too,

Editor: This is a nice time to be getting that in.
(Sarcasm).

Col.: Is ’at so? Well, I’ve told you my senti-
ments before.

F, E.: What? What? What-t-t-t? Say! What is
this? (He has been reading the sheets deposited
by the Columnist.)

Col.: That’s current events. Love lessons from
Aunt Lucy. Sparkling encouragement for the
trodden down-hearted.

F. E.: It ain’t.

Editor: What’s the row allt about? :

F. E.: He’s stolen my stuff; robbed me of my
gags; broken my heart, stepped on my toe, and
butted my head against the wall.

Coy.: I haven't, but I wish I had.

Editor: Listen, you love-birds, quit the brilliant
repartee, you'll awake the slumbering room-mate.

E, R.: Not a chance. You guys can the gab.

F. E. He stole my stuff, I tell you.

Col.: I didn’t. ; "

E. R.: Say! Do you think this is the New York
Tribune or the Charlotte Observer? Nobody’s
goin’ to read the filler anyway.

F, E.: (Bristling) What's that?

‘'E. R.: Get out.

Editor: G’way! :

F. E. and Col.: Bah, forsooth, bah!!

Feature Editor and Columnist exit, arm in arm.
Editor and Editor’s room-mate turn over and
snore simultaneously.

Curtain

Smokehouse Saga

By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

Can you all remember those grand old days way
back in the dim past when we all packed in the
local cinema palace (?) on Saturday night to see
one of the seven wonders of the world—the West-
ern movie? Alas and alack, them were the happy
days before the invention of the Vitaphone, when
we used to gulp down our evening oatmeal, drape
down to the aforesaid theatre, sock our two-bitses
in the ticket-both, and fight for a front seat. There
we would sit spellbound, our mouths wide open,
while tearing the veneer off of the seats in our
frenzy of excitement over the remarkable feats
(no, Reginald, not feets) of the hero.

It was while meditating over this Paradise Lost,
that I concocted the idea that maybe my gentle
readers (one of whom goes bareheaded—the other
needs a hair-cut) would welcome’a good ole West-
ern story back with open arms. Well, here it is.
Shoot, Luke, or gimme the gun.

WILD NELL

The Terror of the Plains
EPISODE |
TRAPPED

Enter Wild Nell, our heroine, on horseback. She
is a petite little Amagon, and is cute just like Niag-
ara Falls. She gallops madly down the main (and
only) drag on Her coal black steed of high mettle
(what mettle isn’t high since the War?) As she
rides, she sings the algebraic theme song “I
Squared Myself with Baby.” Suddenly she reels
in the saddle—and reel one is over. She slows down,
pulls her Equine Four over to the curb, and starts
to, faint gracefully as all good heroines will do.
Unfortunately, however, there’s no one there to
catch her, so she leaps to the ground instead,
throws her hoss with a flying mare, hawg-ties it,
brands it with the brand of the Double Bar, etc.,
and then throws it. playfully off of the set. Sud-
denly she remembers her duty and howls, “The
Injuns are coming!” The people of the town im-
mediately yawn and shout, “Bull!” (No, gentle
reader, they are not speaking of this column.) But
our Nell, undaunted, continues to advertise the
approach of the redskins, and pulling off her hat
shows her scalped head as evidence. (Exhibit A).
At this, the hero, who up to this time has been
studying a book “How to Fly-In Two Parts,” pipes
up and says, “Say, Nell, have you ever tried Wild
Root 2” Little Nellie guffaws and shoots a couple of
his arms off, whereupon he nonchalantly smokes
a herring (they ,really smoke herrings over in
Norway). Nell finally posts a look-out with the
orders to whistle three times if any Injuns appear
on the scene. Believe it or not, but the Injuns
really do appear in full force, but the look-out has
been eating Saltines and can’t whistle, so the sav-
ages take the little hamlet by surprise.

EPISODE II
The Jaws of Death

Having entered the doomed village, the redskins
pull out their compacts and slap on a little more
paint. Then they begin to shag around uttering
blood-curdling cries of “Whoop! Whoop!” This
soon becomes monotonous, so lil’ Nell steps out,
yanks out her rusty gat, and gives ’em the good
old-fashioned woiks. “Bow-wow!” barks her gun
and as. many redskins bit the dust. Soon, they are
all lying on the ground chewing the dust. At last
they decide to go home, so they exit smiling. When
they get home, their Ma sez, “Boys, what are you
all doing with your faces so dirty?” They blush
and reply, “Why, Ma, we’ve been out thar biting
dust.”

EPISODE III
Hearts and Flowers

Just as everything was getting along fine and
dandy, in stalks the VILLAIN. (A little soft music,
Moe.) “Gimme them papers,” he hisses. :‘What
papers?” whimpers Nell, breaking off the legs of
a horse in her embarrassment. “The cigarette
papers,” shrieks the villain. And oh dear! oh dear!
she gives them to him. But have no fear, gentle
reader, right will triumph. “Why, these are phoney
papers!” howls the brute. “We'll see you in the
phoney papers then,’ remarks the hero, as he
dashes in and sics a bull-dog on the villain. Clinch.

In connection with the annual propaganda
campaign of the New York Perfumes Soap and
Amalgamated Soft Peat Cranberry Company, Inc.,
this column is endeavoring to life the intellectual
standard of all with whom it comes in contact.

Did you know:

That if all the loose gravel collected in students’
low top shoes was collected, there would be a pile
of sufficient dimensions to construct an adequate
sidewalk to the China Berry Tree.

That if all the saxophone players in the United
States were placed head to toe, they would stretch
across the Atlantic Ocean and back, and would
probably frown in the act.

That if the local editor were not “Long-Suffer-
ing,” this column would never appear.

That if everyone got up when he said good-
morning and went to sleep when he said good-
night, no one would ever eat, sleep, walk, talk, or—
Static!
