THE

DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 3, 1929

Davidson Professor
Compares Ability Of
World Series Teams

(This is the second article ‘of a series
of sport stories written especially for the
Davidsonian by Prof. J. T. Kimbrough.)

Who will win the coming world’s series?
Flaring headlines in the daily press have

. blazened that question from coast to coast.

’

Experts have discussed it. Baseball fan-
dom has argued about it. Just what is
the answer?

In this modern era of the lively ball
baseball is at once less scientific and more
uncertain than it used to be. Consequent-
ly, in recent years, forecasting the prob-
able result of this greatest of sporting
events has become a complicated prob-
lem of many sides and angles.

To attempt to predict the actual out-
come of every detail is, of course, im-
possible. Each individual opinion is a
mere hypothesis of the “hit or miss” va-
riety. Lucky indeed is the prophet whose
predictions tally even remotely with the
final outcome,

Latest bulletins from Wall Street quote
the Athletics slight favorites in the early
betting, it being’ the general consensus of
opinion that the Cubs will topple before
the magnificent pitching of the Mackmen.

It may be also that sentiment has play-
ed a great part in swaying the betting.
Connie Mack is a mighty popular man in
the East, and the majority of fans will
be pulling for him to climax his team’s
return to pennant winning form, after
fifteen years of futile effort, with a vic-
tory in the coming series.

But sentiment alone never won much in
baseball, and it is going to require more
than that for the Athletics to conquer
the Cubs, a thoroughly capable rival, with
a finer morale than has been possessed by
a National League. contender for the past
three years.

The Pirates of 1927, and the Cardinals
of 1928 were badly battered outfits. Both
won out in the final days of the race and
entered the series under severe handicaps.
Their pitchers were overworked, the
stars, in many instances, being compelled
to work out of turn in order to retain
their team’s precarious lead in the league
standing. The mental and physical strain
on all of the regular players was terrific.
There was no chance for rest or a let-up
in their playing until the final gong. Con-
sequently, each team went “stale” during
the brief interim preceding the series and
both were unlucky victims of the Yankee
steam-roller in four straight games.

But the Cubs bear no such stigma. Hav-
ing cinched the league title some two
weeks ago they now appear all set for the
conflict ahead of them. Their pitching
staff, which wobbled noticeably during
the early part of September, should bene-
fit by this lengthly lay-off and should be
in fine form by October 8th. Manager Mc-
Carty has frequently utilized his reserves
in recent games to allow his regulars a
much needed rest. The presence in the
lineup of Captain Charlie Grim, stellar
first sacker, and Zack Taylor, catcher,

which is now a certainty makes them ap- |.

pear much stronger. They are a confident
lot and their confidence is based on a
solid foundation.

Just here let us pause a moment and
permit memory to revert to the world’s
series of 1910, when the Cubs and Ath-
letics of a different era met under similar
circumstances. One notes a
striking contrast in that faded setting
of nineteen years ago and this vivid scene
of the present. The venerable Cubs, un-
doubtedly one .of the greatest teams of
all time, after dominating the baseball
world for five years, had reached the
nadir of their meteoric path across the
baseball firmament. The youthful Ath-
letics had begun the swift ascent to the
zenith of power and greatness, an ascen-
sion that abruptly terminated four years
later when Connie Mack dismantted his
marvelous machine to revive a lagging in-
terest in the game.

Neither before nor since has such a
galaxy of individual stars adorned the
world’s series stage. The ghosts of Tinker,
Evers, Chance, Shulte, Shekhard, Kling,
Brown, Pfeister, Overall, Baker, Barry,
Collins, McInnis, Bender, Coombs and
Plank still remain to haunt the playing
fields in Philadelphia and Chicago. The
Mackmen were easy victors then. Will the
coming event prove an encore of the 1910
drama, with Connie Mack again in the
leading role—or, will the final curtain re-
nl Joe. McCarty and his Cubs in the
of public acclamation? .

wo teams, which on paper, appear so

has doubtless been many years since ||

Subscriptions To
Paper Gratifying

Reading a list of subscribers to The
Davidsonian, weekly publication of the
Davidson College students, sounds almost
like.a grammar school boy or girl. reciting
the names of all of the United States, but
who forgot a few of them. Subscriptions
to this organ are coming in at the rate
of a dozen a day, and already Davidson
alumni in 19 states and one foreign coun-
try have sent in’ subscriptions. Within the
next few weeks, this number is expected
to increase to at least half of the total
forty-eight.. States represented on the
mailing list are North Carolina, Maryland,
Tennessee, Kentucky, Florida, New Jer-
sey, Virginia, Missouri, Alabama, Okla-
homa, Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, New
York, South Carolina Connecticut, Geor-
gia Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

classic. Both contestants are mighty ag-
gregations. Both boast sterling pitching,
both are fine defensive outfits, both have
heavy and consistent hitting.

On the one hand one might argue that
pitching will dominate the series, and that
hits and runs will be comparatively scarce.
Personally I believe such will be the
case,

On the other hand both parks are small,
and temporary seats erected in the ordi-
nary playing field may prove lucky ha-
vens for freak home runs.

So far as what to expect is concerned,
merely make your guess and await actual
developments. Rarely indeed do athletes
play true to form in the sublime atmos-
phere of the diamond classic. Baseball an-
nals are replete with items recounting
startling upsets. At times stars of the
league camping function normally—their
names are etched in baseball’s hall of
fame. Again, there have been instances in
which such stars have failed to deliver,
and the spotlight has been monopolized
by unheralded players, who have. fre-
quently risen to dizzy heights of great-
ness,

Grantland Rice remarked recently that
Rogers Hornsby is his choice as the pos-
sible “hero” of the coming event. I quite
agree with him, Always noted, in baseball
parlance, as a “money player” the stal-
wart person of the Rajah looms as the
greatest barrier to Athletic hopes. Shunt-
ed from club to club, thus acquiring the
title of a trouble‘maker, Hornsby has
worked in perfect harmony with his pres-
ent mates and even his most biased critic
must admit that he deserves a large share
of credit in his team’s pennant triumph.
He is certain to be a steadying influence
to the Cubs. The series will be just:a few
more games to him and should there be
any ‘drooping of spirits his presence will
do much to rally them,

But one man isn’t going to win the
world’s series. It promises to be a brilliant
battle between two teams packing a
knockout punch and the one with the
best defense will win the crown.

Connie Mack will be compelled to rely
upon his two star southpaws Grove and
Walberg, with Rommell, Earnshaw, Quinn
and Ehmke in reserve. McCarty’s “mur-
derers’ row” Cuyler, Hornsby, Wilson and
Stephenson are all righthand batters. And
only seven lefthanders have. beaten the
Cubs during the past season. Can the
blinding speed of Grove and the supreme
cunning of Walberg turn the trick? Na-
tional league batsmen are much more
familiar with curve-ball pitching than
they are with speed. Will Lifty Grove’s
“fireball” prove as baffling to the Mc-
Cartymen as it has to sluggers in “the
junior circuit? I am inclined to answer
“yes” to these queries.

Personally, I believe that Grove is the
greatest pitcher in ‘the game today.
Throughout the present campaign he has
been preserving his arm, generally wast-
ing his “fast one,” or keeping it where it
isn’t so easy to hit. When he displays his
talent against the Cubs they will see
something new and fancy in speed, or,

elec.
wr

Buzzers Aid Bell
, To Close Classes

Davidson College students for years un-
numbered have been expectantly listen-
ing for the toll of the college bell to bring
each class to a close, but hereafter they
will not have to use their auditory senses.
On the other hand, visionary senses will
be used, for the college has installed ‘elec-
tric buzzers in every classroom of Cham-
bers building, these announcers being
centrally controlled and automatically
going into action at the termination of the
class period. Students, therefore, will have
their glances rivited on these pieces of
mechanicm.

The college has also installed four large
clocks at conspicuous and useful points
in the building. These are likewise cen-
trally controlled in the office of the pres-
ident’s secretary.

Monday schedules are always different
from other days, and it so happened that
this was the first day the buzzers were
tried. Because of this difference, they
went into action in the middle of periods.
Watches galore were extracted when the
buzzing noises started. Students wonder-
ed whether they needed new time-pieces,
or if they were seeeing aright, but this
wonder was shortlived, for the professors
looked at their own watches, saw the er-
ror and calmly announced, “Let us con-
tinue our discussion.”

LIBRARY SCHEDULE

(Continued from page 1)
9 A. M. to 5:30 P. M.—Sundays.
Book Department—
9 A. M. to 6 P. M.-7 P. M. to 9 P. M.
Monday to Friday inclusive.
9 A. M. to 6 P. M.—Saturdays.

perhaps they'won’t see anything at all--
meaning the ball.

Manager McCarty will counter with
Bush, Malone, Blake, Root and Carlson,
all right handers. Nefh and Cvengros,
southpaws, do not appear as potential
starters, although each may see service
in relief roles. Bush, Root and Malone are
primarily fast ball pitchers. Will their
speedy slants silence the bats of Dykes,
Haas, Simmons, Foxx ,.and Cochrane?
“No,” I reason. The American League is
justly termed a “fast ball” circuit. The
Athletics, accusomed to this type of pitch-
ing, should experience little difficulty in
solving this star trio. Carlson looms as
the “dark horse” of the Cub staff at pres-
ent. His recent work has been of high
class calibre and his pitching style should
give the Mackmen more trouble than
they’ are likely to encounter from his
mates,

Those who reckon with the law of aver-
ages must side with the Cubs. Not since
1926 has ‘a> National League contender
won a game, The superiority of the Amer-
ican League for the past two years has
lowered the prestige of the senior loop.

Onty Quinn of the Athletic regulars has
had worlds series- eXperienc®~ while
Hornsby, Wilson, Nefh, McMillan, Cuyler
and Cvengros of the Cubs have tasted it.

The fact that the first two games are
in Chicago may be a vital factor. The
Cubs have proved to be practically un-
beatable on their home lot and any ad-
vantage gained there may prove a mo-
mentum that will carry them far. But,
if the Cubs must be in their own back-
yard to play’their best, the following
three games in Philadelphia may more
than offset this seeming advantage.

Both teams are confident of ultimate
victory. Both possess that spirit of loy-
alty and indomitable courage that bene-
fits a champion.

The event promises to be a colorful one,
and it is possible that it will not end be-
fore the sixth game. Perhaps the seventh
game will be necessary to decide the issue.

Many things can happen in the course

in the deciding game the contents of the
final chapter: of “Baseball for 1929” must

remain a mystery.

Pears TURNER, 31 Ga. :

i, have met in the autumn

Master Cleaners and Dyers _ |
Expert Shoe Rebuilders

LET US REBUILD YOUR SHOES AT TICKET RATES
WE MAKE CALLS AND DELIVER IN THE TOWN OF DAVIDSON

WRIGHT  veacaer are CO.

- Representative

4.

of nine innings. Until the last-mar-is-out*+

Dr. Lingle Has Many
Future Engagements

Davidson Colege is fortunate in having,
in President Lingle, a promoter of such
widespread interest in the College. As
well_as having numberless admirers at
Davidson, Dr. Lingle is beloved throughout
the South. The number of engagements
he has filled since the opening of school,
and those which he is scheduled for in
the near future prove that he is one of
the most-called-for men. in the Presby-
terian Church,

the Westminster Church, Charlotte. The
following day he met with the Concord
Presbytery. In an address at this meet-
ing Dr. Lingle mentioned how striking it
was that he, as President of Davidson,
should be speaking in the interest of the
college at Prospect Church, on the steps
of which years ago plans were formu-
lated for the founding of Davidson. Other
engagements filled during September
were a talk to the Men’s Club of the First
Presbyterian Church, Charlotte; the
opening address at Mitchell College,
Statesville; and the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church, Charlotte. He has made
some fine talks here also, which include
the Y Vesper Service on the 15th and one
to the Ministerial Band on the 29th.

During the coming week, his ergage-
ments include a sermon at Asheboro, a
meeting with the Stewardship Commit-
tee of the North Carolina Synod at Rocky
Mount on October 7th. He will remain
through the 8th and 9th, and on the 9th
he will speak in behalf of Davidson. He
is to speak at the dedicatory exercises of
the new Presbyterian Church at Greens-
boro on October the 10th. The following
day, he will meet with the Executive
Committee of the Presbyterian Committee
of Religious Education and Publication
in Richmond, Va. In the Center Presby-
terian Church at Mount Mourne, he is to
preach on October the 12th and 13th. He
is then scheduled to attend a conference
of the Florida Synod in Ocala, Fla., Octo-
ber the 14th-20th in the interest of the
College. His last engagement is in Greens-
boro, where on October the 20th-27th, he
will preach at the Westminster Presbyte-
rian Church. At the noon hour, he will
speak to a general meeting of elders,
deacons, and Christian workers of Greens-
boro,

October will be Dr. Lingle’s busiest
month, due to many important meetings,
but he expects to be in his office most
of the time in November.

EXTENSIVE PREPARATIONS

(Continued from page 1)
ure that Davidson plays West Point on Oc-
tober 12.

The officer in charge of information and
press relations at West Point is a close per-
sonal friend of mine and if you will be good
enough to send me some “propaganda,” I
will be glad to see that as much space as
possible in the New York newspapers is
given to the game with proper reference to
the Davidson College contingent. I should
also like to have you designate me to pre-
pare ‘a special article on the game for your
paper—not a play-by-play write-up, but a
special article. I was editor-in-chief of Quips
and Cranks in 1916, and my connection with
the Army is that of Captain of the Air Corps
Reserve.

With greetings to Davidson, and best
wishes for the football season, I am,

Cordially yours,
Leroy A. Mullen.

On September the 15th he preached at

Davidson Men Earn
A High Recognition
At Fort McClellan

Davidson men who received six weeks
of military instruction at Fort McClellan
this summer report a very delightful and
successful season.» Davidson maintained
its usual rating this time, winning second
place in military and. general efficiency.
The judgment of efficiency was based up-
on marksmanship, knowledge of military
tactics and excellence in athletics.

Col. W. R. Scott was in charge and
Capt. J. A. Otto was adjutant captain of
the division which represented fifteen col-
leges and two prep schools: namely,
Emory University, Florida, Louisiana State
University, Georgia, Georgia Tech, Ten-
nessee, Clemson, P. C., Mississippi A. &
M., The Citadel, N. C. State, Alabama,
Wofford, North Georgia Aggies, and Dav-
idson; and two prep schools, Riverside
Academy and Georgia Military Academy.
Clemson had by far the greatest number
of any of the schools.

In rifle marksmanship Davidson took
second place, Florida being the highest
scorer. Stveral of the Davidson men
qualified to shoot, but L. C. Roberts was
chosen to represent Davidson in the
sharpshooters’ contest.

The college baseball team, consisting of
those taking advanced R. O. T.'C., reach-
ed the semi-finals, defeating the Univer-
sity of Florida 5-4. In the next game
Davidson was defeated by N. C. State
8-0. The local boys were outstanding in
boxing, swimming and track. In addition
to excellence in athletics, Davidson had
her share of company commanders and
platform leaders in charge.

The Davidson men and offcers and
Camper O’Neal, whose home is in Alaba-
ma, were guests at a very delightful ban-
quet which was given to them at camp.

In 1927, she won national recognition by
having one of the best military units in
the United States, and she has maintained
that degree of excellence ever since. Dur-
ing the past summer at Fort McClellan,
her men proved to the other colleges and
universities that Davidson ranks high in
both military tactics and general effi-
ciency.

ORGAN TEACHER SECURED

(Continued from page 1)

Paul Fry, graduate student and assistant
in music, is the chapel organist and will have
charge of arranging a suitable time for ad-
vanced students to practice on the Chambers
organ.

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

*

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 AND 8
Wise Girl

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 AND 10
Mysterious Island |
Lionel Barrymore, Lloyd Hughes and Jane Daly

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11
Words and Music

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12
Hurricane

