N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1930

Che Habidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE&CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post

Office, Davidson, North Carolina. 2

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN Editor-in-Chief
» AL CANNON: Jucscccecu.. iness Manager
E. C. DWELL) --Managing Editor
W. S. LEA. Managing Editor
D. G. MART Managing Editor
W._H. MATTH ---Sports Editor
V. M. BELL... --Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIE --Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON .--.-Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN .-Associate Editor
wit BLACK..-_- .-Associate Editor
PARE RAGIN Gaius ki nadaeaa i ks iiboai beak mooi sate Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF :
PMs CONWAY ccccccxudctucsss Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER_..-- .-Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS..--------- --Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY..--------------- Subscription Manager
Peeks: BROWN dasves cacsc cots ans cs scucccel ss cecclucccuoc Solicitor
R. W. FALLS..-- ---Solicitor
A. M. MANSON... .--Solicitor
A, L. MEBANE --. ---Solicitor
WR AMORROW siscscesccsseecccs sles soso cc aes Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;
S/S) SWI BY erctie saccescccctanccaccactlelelusycesusues President
D: 7 GHSTBRHBNSONGisccccs coc cocce aecccc cess Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD...--.-.---- Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN ; BROWN
J. G. BERRY ( BAILEY
A, R. BIRD . E, BOYD
N. B. DICKS Ap DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
J.cE, LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
Mi C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V.-F. MULLISS H, F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON Ss. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER Bk. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. ITH D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 16

*T believe the ant is far less unhappy than the
happiest of men.” | —Maurice Maeterlinck.

SUGGESTIONS
Cast your votes of appreciation for the action of
the two men who came through in a pinch at Dur-
ham. Henry McKinnon and Norman Raies dis-
played fine spirit in an unavoidable emergency.

When a man falters between the events of not
knowing what to do or not doing anything neither
scheme appears preferable. :

There is still a chance for the Wildcats to win
the State Championship. Keep rooting for it. A
man doesn’t often get something he doesn’t con-
tinue to try for.

An old Chinese proverb says something about it
being futile for men to try to change the direction
of the wind. Still, one cannot refrain from wishing
when the soft coal smoke from the laundry is
blowing toward the dormitories.

Every man should gét inspired for Home-Com-
ing. Nothing would appeal quite as much to the
alumni as a victory over V. P. I.

An article in THE PARLY-VOO, Converse Col-
lege news organ, proclaims the fact that that or-
ganization has procured an office in which to do
its editorial work. One cannot help wondering how
the staff managed things this long without one.

THE COURT MEANS BUSINESS

Thad’ Brock, as Judge of the Court of
Control, has demonstrated the fact that he
intends to enforce Freshmen rules and reg-
ulations. Appointed to the office by the Stu-
dent Council he has shown that he recog-
nizes the duties invested in-him. Many men,
the majority of whom are Freshmen, do not
realize that the Court of Control is a branch
of student government and has been given
its power through not only the sanction of
the students, but it has also been given a
direct commission by them.

Even the most offended man will admit
-that there is no purpose in having rules if
they are not enforced. As in law, Brock’s
duty is to give sentence, not to change the
entire scheme of regulations. His is not an
easy task.

There seems to be some dissatisfaction

that Freshmen should be reprimanded for
failure to do something which they, through
their own volition, voted to do. The fact
remains that the class voted in a body. One

of the biggest principles which a man has to

learn m a democratic form of government is
to abide by the rule of the majority.

Some first year ‘men have remarked that
they sensed the true circumstances and de-
served the reward given them. We wish to
commend them in their attitude. Especially

do we commend those who stood by the :

vote of their class. It is a big and helpful
job that they undertook. In a year’s time
they will appreciate its value more than
they do now.

Ps Brock and. his fellow members on the
Caurt we extend. congratulations. They: are
handling an unpleasant matter in a way that
is certain to. gain the admiration of upper-

classmen and Freshmen alike. |

AMONG OTHER THINGS

It would doubtless be considered pre-
sumptious on the part of a college editor to
attempt to define or interpret newspaper
ethics. It is an intricate, complex, and, at
times, a disputed science. Experienced men
connected with large dailies have found
themselves accused of more or less techni-
cal breaches.

Nevertheless, it is both possible and per-
missible for a school paper to take an indi-
vidual stand on some matters. Whether this
point of view coincides with that of the pro-
fession or whether it does not is a matter of
conjecture.

Particularly do we fail to approve of the
position recently taken by a leading news-
paper in the state. Not only did it throw per-
sonal criticism in no uncertain manner, but
it also accomplished its purpose in words
which were inclined to be obnoxious, to
some persons at least.

Criticism is a dangerous mode of com-
ment. Be it just or unjust it often wounds
the feelings of the object toward which it
is directed. As we have stated before there
is always room for-constructive observance.
Satire has wended its way into literature,
and it has occasionally won the approbation
of every person concerned. Censorious sa-
tiric criticism is something entirely differ-
ent, especially when ts author appears to be
takng pride in a few “catch phrases.” To

use a cliche, “It is a horse of another color.”

For years the public has been condemned
because of its evident fickleness to its idols.
Many papers cater to public opinion, The
result is self-evident.

SUPPLY AND DEMAND

All those who saw a new screen version
of “The Spoilers” will doubtless remember
“Herman” with his “economic pressure of
supply and demand.” The early days in
Dawson, Nome, and Skagway provided ex-
cellent example of the theory. It evidently
furnishes the fundamental foundation for a
statement made by The Cleveland Plain
Dealer, “One of the worst features of col-
lege training in the United States is that it
is so cheap that,large numbers, a majority
perhaps, do not appreciate it.”

Hamilton Holt, president of Rollins’ Col-
lege, must think of the same problem when
he begins his article in The Nation for
October 8, “To make the process of learn-
ing as vital to young people*as the quest for
a news story to a good reporter, or as in-
tensively gripping as football to the mem-
bers of the college team, is the Rollins idea
of education, It is not a new idea. Every
real teacher since time began has had the
same desire.”

Some years ago, throughout the states of
the South, a Chatauqua entertainer express-
ed the identical idea ‘in simpler words. “A
man wants what he wants when he wants it.
When he gets what hé wants he don’t want
it.” As it stands it may prove a little dan-
gerous if applied to some of the greater
problems and emotions of life. As a comedy
skit it “went over great.”

Basically, the idea is found to consist of
the most human of traits. A man who indus-
trially performs a task with willingness and

-pleasure will eventually approach it with

abhorrence if he thinks that he is being
forced to do it. The kid who plays hooky
from school to play baseball on the sandlot
would be much less inclined to do so if his
father forced him to go there regularly be-
tween the hours of of three and five each
afternoon,

Due to the fact that the majority of col-
lege students have been, at times rather
sternly,, requested to attend public school
and high school by their parents, they group
higher education in the same class. We do
not deny that there are men who devote
their entire lives to a profession in which
they endure countless hardships. That in-
volves countless other considerations, and
it concerns the psychologist more than the
observer.

Perhaps the main difficulty is that the
average man finds difficulty .in knowing
whether he really wants a college education
or not. When the average Freshman is
about seventeen years of age it is impossible
for him to separate distinctly the advice of
his parents from their demands.

Therefore, it would appear that the main
object is not to make youth want advanced
education, but to enable it to see that it does
want it. Many people have performed
actions and been swayed by emotions which
they did not understand, with the result that
they eventually recognized that they were
doing the best thing and the desired thing
all along. : :

No doubt the average student says that he
wants to go to college, yet if asked for a
definite reason he immediately becomes in-
definite. It is “the thing to do.” In this in-
stance it is a case of misinterpreted desire.
He knows what he wants, but he is con-

Albert McClure is doing a great work in the
Davidson mill village church, and should be highly
eulogized. Almost totally ignored by the student
body as a whole, the little settlement across the
railroad is veritably another world. Its population
rately ventures across the tracks though there
mth be some 300 people inhabiting the section,
the majority of whom are employed in the two
factories established there.

The church, called the Davidson chapel,
which was founded some forty years ago by
Dr. J. P. Monroe, grandfather of Stokes Mon-
roe, is not a regular church but is a union of
faiths in which are included at least six de-
nominations. From the three score families
living there, about a third of them attend, reg-
ularly, since the church has a Sunday school,
regular young people’s meetings, a weekly Sun-
day evening sermon, and the mid-week serv-
ices, the average attendance of the first named
being more than 100 since June. Last year the
money for a $1,300 structure was raised and the
building dedicated on September 21st of this
year.

Albert not only acts as the pastor of the church,
but makes frequent visits to their homes, calling
on the sick, and attending their funerals, sacrificing
much of his time which could be spent on the cam-
pus enjoying the various phases of college life. He
is ably assisted by Don Brandon and John How-
ard, whose efforts are so successful that their value
is incalculable. Many others. have demonstrated
their intense interest in the work by assisting
McClure, among who ane Miss Daisy Caldwell,
Mrs. Glasgow, Mrs. Grey, Mrs. Gwynn, Miss Nora
Thompson, Mrs. Schenck, Ernest Emurian, Billy
Hunter and Jake Mackorell.

There is a feeling among the people there that
we are haughty and there really is some ground
for this. Many people on this side do hold them-
selves aloof, possibly deliberately, feeling that they
are better than other folks. Many will remember
Professor Foreman’s impressive speech last year
at a Vesper service, in which he discussed our
“Moral Blind Spots,” an emphatic intimation of
our wrong-doing in ignoring these people men-
tioned above. As Davidson gentlemen, it behooves
us to make friends with all the people in the
neighborhood.

We are most fortunate in being able to secure
forceful and dynamic speakers to deliver addresses
to the student body. Last year, we heard in the
two semi-annual “Y” evangelistic services, Dr. Sam
Glasgow, and Dr. Bill Anderson, two of the most
powerful preachers in the church. We shall never
forget their messages. 9

Last week, we had the privilege of hearing

Dr. Ben Lacy whose achievements require no

mention, and he gave us six sermons that will

live vividly in our memories forever. He has
captured our hearts and inspired us to greater
heights. We appreciate immensely the influence

Dr. Moffett, Carl Pritchett‘and the “Y” Cabinet

had in bringing us this man.

Last year many other outstanding
THREE —EDI—
featured other college programs, among whom
were Rev. Harry Rimmer, well-known archeologist
and minister who is expected to return soon, and
Sol Huebner, America’s most noted insurance
authority.

speakers

Professor Cullum recounts an interesting ex-
perience he had a few years ago, at West
Point, while there on a visit. It happens that
Major General George W. Cullum, famous
Civil war officer, once superintendent of the
United States Military Academy at West Point,
donor of the $250,000 Cullum Memorial at the
army institution, military author, and a class-
mate of Edgar Allen Poe there, is a great
uncle of the Davidson instructor. In view of
this fact, Professor Cullum was requested by
the officials at the Academy, to review the
regiment, and as a guest of honor, was given
the regular army courtesy, offered only to dis-
tinguished guests. The idea of having hundreds
of West Point cadets pass in review for him,
gave the Glee Club director quite a thrill, he
asserts.

On behalf of the! student body, may we extend
our heartiest greetings to the Rev. W. H. Lingle,
and may he enjoy his visit here on the campus
with his younger brothers, Drs. W. L. and T. W.
Lingle, the first reunion of the three distinguished
brothers in a quarter of a century. We fully ap-
preciate his great work as a missionary in Chine,
where he has been stationed for forty years. Dur-
ing the past summer, Mr. Lingle was included in
many Associated Press dispatches from the Orient
and was featured in the leading American dailies
for several days, even requesting a picture which

fused as to the real motives. It would seem
that the determination of desire would be
the primary object for the educator to instill
in the mind of the student.

MUSINGS 9 “%e

we MATAD OR.

BELL

Once there was an old man who lived on a bluff.
What his bluff was nobody knows. But he was a
very kind man. In the immortal words of Shakes-
peare, he was “too full of the milk of magnesia.”
Well, one day he was out in his apple orchard
and he saw a man stealing his apples. He said,
“Didn't I tell you what I was going to do if I
caught you in my apple orchard again?” The man
said over his shoulder, “Well, you ain’t caught me
yet,” and started to running but the old man being
very young for his age caught him immediately.
“Old Bill!” he exclaimed. “What are you doing
now?” Old Bill dug a toe in the sand and said
bashfully, “I’m running a laundry at Sixth Street
and Jones Avenue.” The kind old man—we'll call
hinr Jake, I don’t dare call him by his right name—
said, “Aha, dirty work at the crossroads, eh?” It
was just such little touches like this that made him
loved by the children and dogs of the neighbor-
hood. Every town has a character such as Bill,
however. You may even have one in your own
home right now under the bed. If not fill out the
coupon and with. your little scissors (or with your
little brother’s scissors) clip out the coupon and
mail it to us and we'll send you one without cost.
This amazing offer is made because we send out
so many characters like old Bill. Then won't you
be glad when you can step up to the piano amid
the jeers and pull an old Bill out of your piano.
With this we also send a bill-fold. But to get back
to our story: Jake had not seen Bill for a long
time so they began to talk over old times. Jake
asked, “Do you like Richard Cobb?” “Why he is
the lowest bum I ever heard of,” replied old Bill.
“Then you wouldn’t care to know that they
struck oil on his place,” retorted Jake with gusto.
“What?” said old Bill, “Dear old Dick!” And with
this Jake remembered that he had caught old Bill
in his apple orchard, “Bill, how is it I find your eat-
ing my apples? How is it, I say, how is it?” Bill
quickly changed to his morning%clothes and said
“Jake, it’s just great, just great!” Old Jake, though
being a* kind old man forgot his qualms and said,
shooting a glance across the room, “Have you seen
my new race horse?” At first it looked like old
Bill was going to kick the bucket but he only
turned a little pail and said “No. Is she fast?”
“Fast? Haw, haw. Why even at this very minute
she’s fast asleep.” Old Bill was very indignant at
such an insult and said “This is some place. I'll
bet that there has never been a great man born
here!” “Well, Bill, to tell you the truth, you're
right.” Bill smiled. At last he had him where he
wanted him. “Yes, -you’re right. There never has
been in the history of this place, a great man born
here. Only Babies.” With that.Jake pulled out his
gat and surrounded the house. No one must leave
here tonight !

Time passes—with a low average.

Jake and old Bill meet. again. They are rivals
now. Jake plays for guard on the University of
Smoky Center. He plays guard. Old Bill plays
often for the W. O. W. and how he plays it! He
met Jake on the field and they exchanged glances
and shouler-pads. Jake said:

“Are you still running that laundry?”
Bill answered: “Yes. What. are you doing now?”

“I’m studying at a correspondence school. By thé '

way I want you to be down at the Post Office
when I graduate.”

“Certainly old pal. I appreciate that.”

By this time the game was over and everybody
was on their way home.

Bill and Jake were collecting their wages.

Jake said:

“Bill will you mail this envelope for me? I’m
playing hookey from my correspondent school
today.”

Bill answered: “But you can’t play hookey from
a correspondence school.”

“Oh, yes I can too. That's an empty envelope you
have in your hand.”

Plainly Bill did not understand. What was life
anyway but a dream? We are here today strug-
gling for our daily bread and gone tomorrow.
Bother the expense!

Jake was also worried now. Suppose something
had gone wrong! .

But he said, “Bill, have you seen my _ son’s
fiancee?”

“No, Jake, I ain’t. I’m almost positive it ain’t
been in the wash this week.”

“Well, goodbye. If you forget my name you can
find it in the telephone directory.”

And with this parting sally, he was gone. Old
Bill stood there for hours, saddened by the de-
parture of his old friend who owned him two dol-
lars. And then a terrible thought smote him fair
between the eyes: Suppose the operator was busy
when he looked up Jake’s name in the telephone
directory !

Dr. T. W. Lingle procured for them. All articles
carried news of his hazardous experiences with
the communists and bandits infesting his territory,
and commented on his forced escape to an Ameri-
can ship, after a courageous stand against all odds.
Our admiration for his bravery cannot be justifi-
ably expressed. : 2
