WAKE FOREST-
DAVIDSON IN
CHARLOTTE ON
THANKSGIVING

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Y STARTS ANNUAL
CANVASS OF
STUDENT BODY

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 27, 1930

No. 11

E.W. SYKESTO SPEAK
AT PHI BETA KAPPA
INITIATION EXERCISES

Is Eminent Southern Educator—
President of Clemson College
Ceremonies December 2

Professor Hood Given Honorary
Membership

Announcement was made here today that
Dr. E. W. Sikes, president of Clemson
College and eminent educator, had accepted
the invitation of the North Carolina Gamma
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa to deliver the
principal address at the annual fall initiation
exercises at Davidson College on Decem-
ber 2.

Dr. Sikes will speak at public exercises
at 8 o'clock, following a private initiation of
several alumni, an honorary alumnus, and
five students, who will be inducted into the
society at private exercises an hour earlier,
The address of the Clemson president will
be followed by a banquet for local members
of Phi Beta Kappa, alummi visitors and the
new initiates.

Officials of the local chapter stated today
that all alumni who had been invited had
accepted, with the exception of one who has
not yet been heard from. They were with-
holding the names of the others until his let-
ter had been received. Dr. Fraser Hood,
member of the Davidson faculty, will be ini-
tiated into honorary membership.

These annual exercises represent one of
the high lights of the fall calendar of David-
son College, and is the occasion for the re-
turn of numerous alumni in this section,
whose scholastic record as students of this
institution warranted their selection into this
organization.

Davidson officials consider themselves for-
tunate in having obtained Dr. Sikes for the
evening’s program. He is one of the most
popular speakers of the South, and is fre-
quently in demand because of his oratorical
ability. Dr. Sikes is a native of this state,
and was formerly a member of the North
Carolina State Senate, and for many years
was connected with Wake Forest College.
He left the Baptist institution in 1916 to
become president of Coker College, and since
1925 he has been head of Clemson. His edu-
cation was obtained at Wake Forest and
Johns Hopkins University.

Members of the Senior class who have been
invited to affiliate themselves with the North
Carolina Gamma chapter and who will be
initiated on December 2 are:.J. B. Black, Jr.,

Red Springs; Kenneth M. Jackson, Birming-:

ham, Ala.; H. S. Munroe, Jr., Charlotte;
W. C. Ragin, Wilmington, and J. F. Preston,
Korea.

Student Poems are

Selected for Book

In response to a request that three or
four of the best poems written by Davidson
students within the past year be selected and
sent to authorities at Washington and Lee
University, who are composing a volume of
collegiate verse, the Sigma Upsilon honorary
fraternity appointed a committée of three
who selected “Renunciation,” by J. S. Alden,
“Hands,” by R. E. Witt, and.an anonymous
poem submitted to Professor Lilly last year.
This committee was composed of Jim Black,
Professor Jilly and Paul Alderman.

Recently a need was felt for a book in
which the talent of college men could be
given due recognition and also through which
an incentive might be given that will bring
about a revival of literary writings among
college students, more especially the writing
of poetry. Realizing this need, a group of
men connected with Washington and Lee
University have started work on the com-
pilation of an anthology of American college
poetry. A majority of the universities and
colleges of America have been invited to
contribute to this first edition.

This first edition will only include poetry
turned in by students last year and the first
semester of this year. All of the poems may
be written by one man or several as was
the case in the Davidson contribution.

Harry Goodykoontz

Gives Vesper Talk

The “Y” vesper service iast Sunday eve-
ning was led by Mr. Harry Goodykoontz,
an old Davidson man and a member of the
class of '27, who is now attending the Union
Theological Seminary. The — service
opened by the Union quartet, who beautifully

was

rendered two selections, “Crossing the Bar,” |

and “I Want My Soul to Tell for Jesus.”

Most people feel that they wotld like very
much to become a minister, but also feel
that they: are not worthy to preach the
Lord’s word, that they are not well enough
prepared. The greatest preacher ever known
was the Apostle Paul. Paul thought himself

unworthy to preach the gospel but he tirned |

out, to be the finest minister ever known.

People outside think the ministry only have
to prepare sermons for Sunday, get up a talk
for the week's work
is done. “I have not known a single person
who can do the work to its fullest,” said
Mr. Goodykoontz. “It is a big work. There
are three things that a minister must be, an
‘administrator,’ a ‘pastor,’ and a ‘preacher.’ ”

An administrator must make plans and
carry them out tactfully. He must have ob-
jectives and an organization to carry them
out. He deals with all kinds of people, the
intellectual and the illiterate, the poor and
the rich alike. Plans therefore must be made
wisely, carefully and patiently. Administra-
tors are also educators, they must
knowledge and keep up with every-day things
and have new methods for teaching. They
work exceedingly hard and many of them
are liable to breakdown.

The pastor deals with the two types of
people, the happy and thé sad. There is no
monotony in the work because they are al-
ways doing new and interesting work, Their
work is usually with joyful people, but some-
times they attend a funeral and a marriage
in the same hour. The biggest work is real-
ized when dealing with the unhappy.
pastor’s two essential qualifications are psy-
chology of religion and the knowledge of
God. 4

prayer meeting and

A preacher must give immense thought to
his work for he has to express great and
noble “theology. He must think of science
and religion, that is, Christ-like principles
and daily living. To give the right attitude,
toward Jesus, are many thoughts of a preach-
er. They must do their best to convince peo-
ple of their sin, as sin is more insidious now
than ever before and a hard thing to tackle.

There are’ many discouragements in the
ministry, such as small salaries and the diffi-
culties. It is a challenging work and if a

person wishes to do big tasks he will do |

well to join the, ministry. One must serve
with a bleeding heart, a great love and won-
derful patience; brilliance is no great part
in preaching.

The fellowship in the ministry is a great
thing. There is also pleasure in studying for
it, but the most inspiring thing about it is
the fellowship with Jesus Christ.

The service was closed with the hymn,
“Seal Us O Holy Spirit,” sung by the Union
quartet.

Professor Beaty To
Give Vesper Address

The regular Y. M. C. A. vesper services
this Sunday, November 30, will be conduct-
ed in accordance with the Thanksgiving
spirit, this being the vesper service nearest
Thanksgiving.

Professor E. A. Beaty will be ‘the prin-
cipal speaker at this meeting. Professor
Beaty is a member of the Davidson faculty
in the departments of English and Latin.
He is a graduate of Davidson, and has done
graduate work at the University of South
Carolina.

The talk of Professor Beaty will be on
the general theme of Thanksgiving and its
influence and meaning in the lives of the
American people. His talks have always re-
ceived much favor among the Davidson stu-
dents. ;

Included on the program of the vesper
service will be several selections of music
by the Davidson quartet.

‘

have |

The |

Amplifiers to Be Used
~ at Wildcat-Deacon
Game

Capt. Norton G, Pritchett, profes-
sor of physical education at David-
son, announces that amplifiers will
be used on Charlotte High Field
Thursday in the game between Da-
vidson and Wake Forest.

The use of amplifiers at the Dav-
idson-Carolina game caused many
appreciative fans to write letters
commending the officials on this
service.

This new feature gives the public
a running account of the entire
game. It furnishes a means of know-
ing who the man is back in position
that makes the play, the nature of
the play after it is under way, and
the man who makes the tackle, or
completes the. pass.

Furthermore, the penalties and
questions that arise are explained
that otherwise might not be under-
stood by the average spectator.

“Y” Sponsors Campaign

To Aid Orphanage Fund

To Make Annuai Drive for Barium
Springs Orphanage

| As has been customary in past years, the
|Y. M. C. A. is this fall sponsoring the annual
| campaign among the student body for a fund
|to be given to some institution that deserves
land needs it. Heretofore it has gone to
| causes which, although worthy of such a gift,
|have not been’ any too familiar ones with
| the student body as a whets, And that is the
outstanding difference between past cam-
|paigns and the one of this year—practically
every man in the student body knows some-
thing about the recipient this time—the Ba-
lrium Springs Orphanage at Barium Springs,
N. C. The reason for this is two-fold: It is
|near Davidson, being only about 20 miles
{north on the Statesville road, and, in the
|second place, has for many years had the
| most friendly relations with Davidson. These
|relations have varied, but the outstanding
| one is probably the selection *of Davidson
{by an increasing number of Barium Springs’
{graduates as their college. Davidson gradu-
jates have in turn, served at Barium on the
\faculty, and Mr. Joe Johnston, an old David-
| son graduate, and now manager of the Or-
| phanage, is another strong link between the
{two institutions.

| The nature of this campaign is wholely
| student body—it is their gift to Barium. The
/amount that will be aimed at is $1,000, and
will be given by means of each student
pledging a certain amount when someone
| goes to his room on Friday night, December
| 5, at about 9 o'clock. That will be the first
{canvassing of dormitories and others will
ibe made so as to give every man in the stu-
| dent body a chance to give. That does not
| mean that those making the canvass will re-
| visit each man until he gives, thus becoming
more or less a nuisance, but the canvassers
| will return to each room where the occupant
was absent and give him a chance to make
‘his gift. :

| No matters what appeals are made, how
| strong they may be, or how generous they
|/may make some of us, the success of the
|campaign will not be at all insured unless
|every student, contributes toward the fund.
| The times are hard, it’s true, but authentic
|reports show that the student body as a whole
‘is spending more money this year than ever
| before. Can’t we direct just a small amount
;of this to 360 orphans at Barium, where a
| dollar will mean what several dollars mean
here?

| The Orphanage was established at. Barium
Springs on January 11, 1891, in a two-story
wooden structure, with about a dozen or-
phans. The building burned in November
but,' through the courage of those in charge
and the generosity of friends, a new cottage
was erected and the work resumed. Through
persistent work and benevolent friends the
Orphanage has continued to grow until it
now consists of 16 brick, eight frame dwell-

(Continued on page 6)

Language Assembly
Meets at Davidson

The third’ annual meeting of the South
Atlantic Modern Language Association will
he held at Davidson -College next week-end,
November 28 and 29, and during the two
days‘of discussion and addresses, this Pres-
byterian institution will play host to many
professors of modern languages located in
North and South Carolina,
Florida.

Georgia, and

This week an announcement was made of
the program for this gathering. It calls for
a general assembly early Friday afternoon,
after which the visitors will break up into
four different divisions for a discussion of
problems attendant to their special subjects.
These groups will be made up of English,
French, German, and Spanish professors.
Friday night, the public exercise will con-
sist of musical numbers, a play, and an il-
lustrated lecture, and a business session is
scheduled for Saturday.

Heading the English section of the con
ference will be Dr. Jay B. Hubbell, of the
English department of Duke University ; Dr.
W. S. Braney, of the North Carolina Col-
lege for Women, will be in charge of the
Spanish conference, and Dr. G. R. Vowles,
Davidson College, heads the German group.
Dr. FE. V. Gage of the Florida State Col-
lege for Women, will be in charge of the
Spanish conference.

Friday night the delegates will be for
mally welcomed to the college in an address
by Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of instrue-
tion at Davidson. This is preceded by a sup-
per at 6:30 p. m., when the visitors are guests
of the college, After the welcome, vocal se-
lections will be rendered by Mrs. Ernest J.
Cullum and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, of David-
son; a one-act play, translated from Spanish
into English by Prof. Ff. K. Fleagle, of Da-
vidson, will be staged, and to close the eve-
ning’s program, Dr. John N. Ware, of Short-
er College, gives an illustrated lecture on
“Villon in Paris.”

Saturday’s business session will be presid-
ed over by Dr. F. W. Bradley, of the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, president of the
association. Reports from departments and
an election of officers for the ensuing year
is included on the program. Dr, C. F. Hamff,
of Emory University, is secretary of the
organization.

Some speakers before the English group
include Prof. Geo. C. Taylor, University of
North Carolina; Prof. C. H. Davis, Univer-
sity of South Carolina, and Prof. Leon R.
Meadows, East Carolia Teachers College.

French section—Prof, Rene Stephen, Uni-

versity of South Carolina; Mrs. Norma
Gerry, Curry High School, N. C. C. W.;
Dr. Carlton C. Rice, Catawba, and Prof.

John Pons, Rutherford College.
German—Prof, Conrad Lahser, Greensboro
College for Women,

Nine Men Initiated
Into I.R.C. Nov. 18

Linemen from the Junior and Senior
classes, notified recently of their accept-
ance in the International Relations Club,
were initiated Tuesday night, November
18. These men are C. W. Kuykendall, W.
H. Matthews, Jr, Ff. G. Jenkins, N.. G.
Speir, J. H. McKinnon, FF. M. Hoge, F. W.
JZuckner, H. F. Nichol, and Norman
Raies.

Membership in this national honorary
fraternity is based on interest shown in
and

have

history, political science,
Certain

tendencies

forensics,
like

shown

subjects. men who

these and are leaders
in this field of activity are asked to write
papers on some subject of international
interest. Each man is permitted to choose
his own subject in this matter. Then only
the men who write the most outstanding
papers are chosen for membership. Some
of the subjects developed by the men who
have just been taken in are: “Bolshevik
Forcign Relations’; “British American
Friendship”; “Chemical Warfare”; “Com-
munism in China’; and “Benito Musso-
lini and Italy.” :

This club has many chapters in the va-

(Continued on page 5)

CATS WILL BATTLE
DEAMON DEACONSIN
ANNUALGRID CLASSIC

Team That Held Duke Blue Devils
Will Prove Hard Foe for
Davidson

GAME IN CHARLOTTE

’Cats Are Outweighed in Line and in
Backfield

The 1930 edition of the annual classic bat-
tle between Wake Forest and Davidson will
be tomorrow the
Central High School in Charlotte
before what is expected to be one of the larg-

re-enacted afternoon at

stadium

est football crowds ever to turn out in Char-
lotte. The that the Duke Blue
Devils is bound to pack them in down in
Charlotte battle. The
Deacons line and

team upset

for a real vengeance

with their steam-roller
their recent reversal of form to tie a pow-
erful Duke aggregation will) probably take
the field slightly favored by the majority off
the But the strenuous fight that the
Deacons had to put up last Saturday might
tell on them, the Wildeats’

was fixed so that they could enjoy a well-

fans.

while schedule
earned rest that week-end

The Demon Deacons will bring a team to
Charlotte which will outweigh the Wildcats
anywhere from 10 to 15 pounds in the line
and about 10 pounds in the backtield. The
caviest men are Webb and Williams, tackles,
who weigh around 220 pounds apiece, and
Benton, quarterback, who tips the scales at
200 even, Supporting these heavyweights are
fast and shifty backs, such as Mills and
Quillen. :

Comparative scores Show up quite a bit on
the relative powers of the two teams. Both
Davidson and Wake Forest outclassed N, C.
State, the former by two touchdowns and
the latter by only one. But Duke outplayed
the Wildcats to win by one touchdown while
the Deacons outplayed Duke, according to
many writers present, to gain an even ver-
dict with them. Then again when we look
at the outcome of the Tar Heel games when
Davidson won by a one-point margin and
Wake Forest- lost by two markers, we can say
correctly that comparative scores show the
two teams to be evenly matched.

The Deacons have turned in some master-
ful performances this fall and are hailed as
one of the greater Wake Forest teams, pilot-
ed by a great coach in Pat Miller. Heading
all of their performances are the two tussles,
one with Carolina at the beginning of the
season, and the other with Duke last Satur-
day. The whole impression that spectators
received at the Tar Heel-Deacon fracas was
not the speed of-Carolina’s hundred backs
nor the perfect meghanism of a great South-
ern Conference team, but was the absolute
stone wall defense that a mighty Deacon
line put up.

Against Duke the Deacon line again came
into their glory, staving off again and again
the férocious thrusts of- Murray and Brewer,
whose off-tackle runs have proved to be the
downfall of many great teams this fall, in-
cluding Kentucky,. Navy and Villanova.
Duke took the lead in the opening minutes
of play when Mason shot a pass to Hyatt
for the score. Not to be dismayed by this,
the big line went into action and smothered
Duke plays all afternoon. The afternoon
showed up such men as Sammy Levine and
Captain Parker in the Ime, Quillen, Mills,
Benton and Covington in the backfield. It
was Benton's brains, Mills’ speed and Quil-
len’s ability to snare a pass that were shin-
ing lights in the afternoon's play.

Not since 1920 have the Wildcats taken
the measure over the Deacons, so they will
be out fighting for the first decision a
Younger-coached machine has ever made
over Wake Forest. Playing such a brand of
football as they showed against Carolina, the
Wildcats will be undefeatable, but if they
play as they have done in some games this
fall, they will probabl¥ be in for a drubbing.

In this game a few All-State candidates
will be pitted against each other, most prom-
inent of which are Steve Brown and Ray
Gregson, both of wham are right ends. Greg-
son turned in a great performance against.
Duke last week, whilf Brown rose to heights

yale on page 6)
