THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

5.

Nine Alumni Meetings In
As Many Days Is Plan

For Northeastern Tour

Captain Pritchett and Mr. Jackson

Have Reported Successful
Alumni Meetings

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son College, and Ernest Milton, alumni sec-
retary, will leave here next Monday for an
extensive and intensive series of alumni meet-
ings, dinners and luncheons that will include
stops at nine different points is as many
days. Since the original schedule of seven
meetings were planned, invitations have come
from alumni in New ‘Haven and Princeton
to visit them, and these have been added.

Beginning at Greensboro next Monday
night with a dinner-meeting at the King
Cotton Hotel, the two Davidson representa-
tives will follow an itinerary which will be
concluded the following Tuesday week.
Visits will be made to Washington, Phila-
delphia, Princeton, New York, Boston, New
Haven, Baltimore and Richmond in the order
named.

Davidson alumni during recent years have
gone to northern institutions or northern
points in unusually large numbers. The
largest group is located in and about the city
will be the largest meeting of all, Richmond,
and Greensboro are expected to be second
in numbers, while Washington, Baltimore,
Philadelphia, and Boston are expected to
assemble opproximately the same number of
Davidson men to greet Doctor Lingle and
Mr. Milton. At New Haven and Princeton
there are smaller groups. These will be met
at an informal luncheon.

This annual trip will be an informatory
one, and will serve to disseminate the latest
happenings of the campus, and to acquaint
the alumni with the plans of the future.
of New York, to which meeting over 100
They will also be the first meetings of Dav-
Davidson alumni are being invited. This
idson men which the new president of David-
son has had the opportunity to visit, and
this fact is expected to be a big drawing
card in bringing the alumni together.

With one or two exceptions the time and
place of the meetings have been selected by
local representatives. The itinerary is as
follows :

March 10, Greensboro, King Cotton Hotel,
7:00 p. m.

March 11, Washington, National
Club, 7:00 p. m.

March 12, Philadelphia,
Room, 6: 30 p. m.

Press
Southern Tea

March 13, Princeton, luncheon at’ 1p. m.
New York, dinner-meeting.

March 14, Boston, Faculty Club, 6: 30
p. m.

- ~~

March 15, New Haven, luncheon at More’s
at 1:00 p. m. ‘

March Baltimore Club,
8:30 p. m.

March 18, Richmond, Seminary, Training
School or Chamber -of Commerce dining
room at 6:30 p. m.

17, Baltimore,

JUNIOR PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)
them, since every minute of the week-end will
be taken up with some enjoyable entertain-
ment. The tentative schdule of the week-end
follows:
‘Saturday afternoon, 2:30—Football game.
Saturday evening, 6-8—Cabaret dinner.
Saturday evening, 8 :30—Minstrel.
Saturday 10-12—Festivities in Mooresville.

Up goes another building. Another
6

gas blow-out.
mtrary to popular belief, explosion
damage 3h unrecoverable under the
Fire policy, except when fire ensues,
and then for only the fire damage.
To be fully protected you need Ex-
plosion Insurance, too.
Let us show you how little Explosion
protection costs.

It's safer to have ins rance—
and not need i.!

Independence Trust Co.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS

By Capt. Norton G. Pritchett

The safest course of action to be followed
by any traveler who is unfamiliar with the
territory in which he finds himself is to
“Stop, Look, and Listen,” whenever and
wherever conditions may warrant his doing
so. Failure to do this may not prove disas-
trous in every case, but it tends to prevent the
possibility of enlightenment. The only per-
sonal disappointment resulting from our re-
cent visits with Davidson College Alumni
Chapters in Rome, Thomasville, and Atlanta,
in Georgia, as well as in Jacksonville, Or-
lando, Tampa, and Miami, in Florida, may
be attributed to the fact that we failed to
discover a single speciman of the famous
Mediterranean Fruit Fly or? of the so-called
Pestiferous Alumni, a well-known bug that
shares equally with the former in whatever
execration the general public delights to
heap upon these two evils.

Not being an alumnus of Davidson Col-
lege, and knowing that I might be subjected
to direct as well as enfilade fire from any
disgruntled caviler who might choose to en-
joy such pastime, I felt that the best I might
offer in the way of information or enthusiasm
would fall far short of what I should like
to say in behalf of the present generation of
Davidsonians. Furthermore, knowing of the
destructive hurricanes that somewhat recent-
ly swept over the southern peninsula known
to natives as “The paradise of flowers,” I
shared the feelings of the small boy who,
as he looked for the last time upon his home-
site in Carolina in anticipation of his moving
to Florida, called out his goodbyes to the
cow, the horse, the chickens, etc.; then, real-
izing that he had overlooked a social as well
as a personal duty, he looked up into the
heavens and said, ‘Good-bye, God, I'm going
to Florida.”

Viewed in retrospect, now that all my mis-
givings have been dissipated by cordial re-
ceptions at every meeting, I do not flatter
myself into the belief that there was any-
thing in my personal message to our alumni
that could account for their kindness; the
same reception would have been given to
the lowliest janitor from the college, so in-
tense is the loyalty of a Davidson man to
his Alma Mater. Had I written this weeks
ago, I might have felt such expression to
be mere romantic rot—but I have seen, have
experienced, and am personally convinced
that there is that intangible something about
your “Davidson Spirit” that goes deeper
than the larynx and that binds old men to
youthful ideals that have grown even strong-
er with the years.

Space does not permit to offer any detailed
account of our experiences. It is enough to
say that we could not have been more cor-
dially received by any alumni than by those
living in Georgia and Florida; we are al-
most willing to confirm the superlative ac-
counts of our students who speak of Florida
in glowing terms, for Ponce de Leon really
found the fountain of youth there. As for
Georgia, there is no need for comment;
ask any student who lives there.

If there is any truth in the old statement
that “circulation is weakest at the extre-
mities,” then Georgia and Florida are lo-
cated in the geographical center of the
United States. It was an inspiration to me,
the entire trip and all our contacts, and if
all Davidson alumni are as genuinely inter-
ested in their college as are those whom we
met, there is but one suggestion we have to
make to our present student body—David-
son spirit was alive long before you arrived;
it will. live long after you are dead; you
have a challenge to meet, and your best
must be given. You can do little to strength-
en the reputation your alumni have gained
for your college, but you can easily do much
to weaken it. The alumni are backing you
heart and soul, and they are proud to leave
the immediate future in your keeping.

GEORGE McCLENAGHAN

(Continued from page 1)

For many years this office has carried with
it a great deal of recognition. The varsity
cheer leader is usually a recognized campus
leader. His chief duty is to lead the student
body in organized yells at all athletic con-
tests. In addition to this, he organizes and
leads pep meetings before the more important
contests. Frequently he arranges for the
students to be transported in a body to and
from, big games played at small distances
from the campus. Lastly, his most important
duty is to keep up that great Davidson
Spirit- which is so well known the country
over. This is essentially his greatest task,
for it is this which gives the teams a morale
to overcome all obstances.

By Frank L. Jackson

A trip through Florida at this season of
the year is most interesting. At all the resort
places it is said that there are more tourists
in Florida now than at any other time in
the past. The interest of our trip, how-
ever, centers not in that which attracts the
tourists to Florida, but in the alumni of the
college.

{n addition to the formal meetings held at
Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa and Miami we
stopped at numerous other towns for a few
minutes’ visit with Alumni whose names
had been furnished us by the Alumni Secre-
tary.

The alumni with whom we came in contact
would naturally be those most interested in
the colloge. One man drove 60 miles to at-
tend a meeting. Several others drove more
than 40 miles. Some of the alumni were
members of recent classes and asked ques-
tions about the completion of the Chambers
building, gradidg on the campus, the new
professors, student activities, prospects for
our football team next year and other phases
of college life that were uppermost in their
thoughts.

There were others who inquired about the
janitors and were interested to know whether
Holtzclaw and Uncle Hiram, Baxter and
Walter were still living. They seemed to
remember that Holtzclaw had the important
function of carrying notes from the Presi-
dent’s office. Almost everywhere we went
we got a rehearsal of some of the standing
jokes of the college. About the student, for
instance, who being caught in the professor’s
pear tree and asked what he was doing there,

(Continued on page 6)

Representatives Have
Returned From Florida

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of
Davidson, and Ernest Milton,
Alumni Secretary, Will
Make drip

MANY WILL ATTEND

Luncheons at New Haven and
Princeton Have Been Added to
Original Schedule

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of phy-
sical education, and Mr. Frank L. Jackson,
treasurer of the college, returned last Satur-
day night from a trip through Florida, at-
tending four different alumni meetings in
that state. Captain Pritchett had attended
three gatherings of Davidson men in Georgia
prior to the time when Mr. Jackson joined
him in Jacksonville for the Florida tour.
Accounts of the Rome and Atlanta meetings
have already been published on this page.

Both have reported enthusiastic meetings
of the Davidson met, and an intense interest
on the part of the alumni to learn something
of their Alma Mater. The attendance at
some of the meetings was not as large as it
might have been had it not been the height
of the winter season in Florida when many
of the men were involved in business from
which they could not get away.

Before all of the associations Mr, Jack-
son talked of the “Service of an Alumnus
to His College,” and touched upon the var-
ious means of expressing their loyalty. He
cited the power of the alumnus in the in-
fluence he exerts for the college, the con-
tacts that he can make for the institution,
both with high school students and other
people, and declared the alumnus to be the
life of the institution.

Captain Pritchett told of his impressions —
of Davidson since he came here in the fall
of 1928. He is not an alumnus of the college,
and could more clearly present to them the
opinion of an outsider. He expressed his
appreciation of the fine student body with
which he worked and of the spirit that is
manifest on the campus. In the course of his
remarks he outlined his plan for physical
education for the entire student body, and
showed its possibilities.

After the talks of these .two men, the
meeting were thrown into an informal open-
forum discussion, with the questions being
propounded by the alumni. ‘They showed no
hesitancy in seeking the information they
desired, according to the report of the two
representatives, and not only asked about in-
dividual professors and others connected with
the. institution, but queried them regarding
the policy of the college in many respects.

Association officers are as follows:

SGNF (South Georgia-North Florida),
We Hampton Jennings, °’28, Thomasville,
Ga., president; and R. K. Shaw, ’22, Quincy,
Fla., vice-president.

Northeastern Florida, Dr. W. McL. Shaw,
‘15, president; Geo. D. Green, II, '21, vice-
president, and T. S. Baker, '26, secretary-
treasurer—all of Jacksonville.

Central Florida—R. M. Wetherell, '08,
president, and Sidney Ives, III, ’24, vice-
president, both of Orlando.

Southwestern Florida—Dr. J. Frank Cran-
ford, ’07, St. Petersburg, president; Paul B.
Price, '24, Tampa, vice-president, and Chas.
G. Baskerville, ’28, Tampa, secretary-treas-
urer.

Davidson alumni meeting at Coral Gables,
near Miami, did not attempt an organization.
The number in that section is particularly
small, and it was thought best to merely call
them together when Davidson representatives
are in that state and can attend the meetings.

IS A HIGH-SPOT
OF PLEASURE

“Ce

MEL

Camels are either a solitary pleasure

or a companionable custom g As you pass

from one activity to the next

friend after another

or meet one .

let Camels mark the

transitions g and lend their cheerful aroma

to each new circumstance

each day with high-spots of pleasure

to yourself now and then

To punctuate

say

Pu have a Camel!

Camels are mild, mellow and smooth . . . refreshingly cool
... an expert blend of the choicest tobaccos grown. That’s
why they bring you an extra measure of pleasure . . . why
they never tire your taste, nor leave an unpleasant after-
taste, no matter how often you smoke them.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacee
Cc . Winsten-Sal N.C

