THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1930

Books We Have Read

Iron Man. W. R. Burnett. Lincoln Mac
Veagh. The Dial Press, New York, 1930.
Iron Man is a story of a man’s soul. It

will delight a reader who likes books that

go deep into human stuff unfamiliar to him,

and casts upon life a light all the more il-

luminating because coming from so new a)

point of view.

It is the story of a mechanic’s assistant
who went into prize fighting and battered his
brutal -trail to the middleweight champion-
ship of the world. It is built around a trio:
Coke Mason, the honest, fearless, incredibly
ignorant, incredibly dumb and simple-heart-
ed pugilist; Regan, his manager, and Rose
Mason, the champion’s wife. Because of Rose
the two men, the closest friends since child- |
hood, part company in a scene that has in- |
finite pathos. The strength of Coke Mason |
becomes his weakness in his devotion to |
Rose. Regan is gifted in every trick of the |
game, but is true to Coke after a eet | 2
until the break comes. . In its whirl- | 2
wind finish, the story tales on the aspects |
of a tragedy of great forcefulness and dig- |
nity. You will come away from the book |

miring Coke and with him _a new world |
of people, in a walk of life vastly unknown |
to you.

Iron Man (a Book-of-the-Month Club 4
lection), is truly an epic of the pugilist realm,
uncompromising in its realism, powerful,
brutal. But there is more than the realist
would think, or could see. For here is por- |
trayed an essential decency in men that |
makes the author’s world just that much |
more true. According to Mac Veagh, “He
has the realism of great art, which does not
exclude the ideal as an element of reality.” |

In this study*of the souls of men, and
certainly it is such, we see an idealizing of |
the real, as well as a realizing of the ideal.
A slugging champion, dumb but honorable, |
is seen torn between two alternatives, and
besetting temptations hedge i in on every side, |
but the heart of Coke remains true.

True it is that this book has much “un- |
varnished talk-of rough men” in it, as Dor
othy Canfield has pointed out, but we con-
tend that in the unspoken affection which |
united this pugilist and his manager, one |
will find a moving picture, as it were, of |
deep-rooted masculine emotion which would |
be hard to find in any other book.

Coke, the honest, honorable, incredibly
ignorant, incredibly dumb and simple-hearted
pugilist, will walk straight into any hear that
has room for primitive pérsonalities.

D. D. McBryde.

Intercollegiate News

Ohio Wesleyan

Delaware, Ohio—(IP)—Delaware police
were called upon recently to disperse a class
fight between 400 Freshman and Sopho-
more women on the campus of Ohio Wes-
leyan University.

Freshman girls for several days had re-
fused to appear in their Freshman berets.
Then one evening the Sophomores organ-
ized and swooped down on the Freshman
cottages.

The Freshmen likewise were soon organ-
ized and a hot battle ensued. Hair was pulled,
dresses torn and faces scratched in the
melee.

Sophomores succeeded in ducking a few
of the frosh co-eds under the showers.

The first policeman on the scene mistook
lipstick, smeared on the faces of the Fresh-
man girls, as blood marks, and sent in a
general alarm. The cops soon separated the
combatants, and one one was seriously hurt
in the conflict.

HOME-OWNERS

When fire
drives you
out, you'll
have to pay
rent ina tem-
porary home.

Ifyou have °
Rental Value
I nsvranea,
tha insinaee company will pay
that extra, unlooked-for rent
while you res ore your own home
with all the fire insurance money.

Let’s show you the extraordin-
ary value of Rental Value protec-
tion. Why protect the property
and not the investment?

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

Me NEE ae (13), Manager

Examination Schedule
Session 1930-1931—First Semester

A.M. examinations begin at 9:00

P.M. examinations begin at 2:00

|would not wear the prescribed Freshman
headgear.

J. R. McGREGOR

(Continued from page 1)

firm, or it may have had only one; this firm
of ours has passed through many hands,
such as Moses, Joshua, Elijah, Isaiah, Jere-
miah, Christ, His disciples, Paul, and many
other Christian leaders. Your father’s firm
may not promise anything for the future,
but this firm promises eternal life to any
who will become a member of it. Members
of firms today sometimes leave the firm to
seek affiliation with another firm which they
think is better and where they can get more
money; but the Firm of Jesus always keeps
its members, once they become affiliated
with it.

“Some people say that this firm’s mem-
bers: are not all the best type; this state-
ment is probably true, as some of the inem-
bers only become affiliated to obtain per-
sonal glory, but there is no firm in the
world that has more finer men and women
than this firm.

“Some of the members of the firm will
forsake other firms to serve the Lord and
broadcast His Word throughout the world.
One of my friends who went to Preshy-
terian College of South Carolina, was cap-
tain of the football team, won the oratorical
contest for his school and later went to
Union Theological Seminary. He gave up
the other professions that he might have
followed to serve his Lord in the forcign
fields in Africa at the salary of fifty dollars
a month. I know of a railroad man who
was very high in that business and forsook
that business to become a minister of the
gospel in Korea.

“A man went into a church to hear the
service, but it was not interesting to him
until after the pastor had read the scrip-
ture and began to pray. The man’s thoughts

came to him a vision of a man carrying a
burden, and back of him his wife followed.
This man was a very weak man. These
poor people came to a stone and sat down.
After they had been sitting there a short

wandered during the prayer and then there |.

the prayer ended, and after the service he
went home and tried to reproduce the pic-
ture, but he could: not produce it like he
thought it should be painted. He prayed to
God and asked Him to let him paint the
picture as it should be painted and he would
give up his life to the service of God. God
granted him, this and then the man went to
Palestine to: reproduce the Tite of Christ.
Now the duty of everyone in the firm is
to reproduce the life of Christ.

“Tric Redell, a great runner, refused to run
a 400-meter race, his specialty, because it
was postponed from Saturday to Sunday,
and his parents had brought him up not Ict-
ting him compete on the Sabbath Day. He
told the officials to withdraw his name and
they did. On Tuesday there was to be run
the 800-meter race, a race that he had never
run. He asked the officials to let him run
and they did, and he not only won the race
but set the world’s record. People want to
know why he was honored when he gradu-
ated. The students did not honor him because
he won the race, but because he was true
to the thing he believed was right.”

The concluding song was “Day Is Dying
in the West.” The service was closed by
the benediction by Dr. McGregor.

In a word, to appear an honest man it
is necessary to be one.—Bolleau.

“What became of your little kitten,” asked
the visitor of Fred Morris Sorrell.
“Why haven’t you heard?”
“No, was it drowned ?”
“No.”
“Lost?”
m “No.”
“Poisoned ?”
“No.”
“Then whatever became of it?”
“It grew up into a cat.”

Bystander: “I observe that you treat that
gentleman very respecftully.”

Garage Man: “Yes, he’s one of our early
settlers.”

Bystander: “Early settler? Why, he
doesn’t look more than forty years of age.”

Garage Man: “That may be true, but he

pays his bills on the first of the month.”

Is

B. Speir ('26)

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.

5 For Catalogue and information, address

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

Jan. ] .-Freshman Sophomore Junior and Senior
A.M. Mathematics 1 Mathematics 2 « Mathematics 3, 4. Polit. Science 3
Thur. Psychology 2, Business 1, Educ. 1
4 P.M. History 4, 5, 6
A.M. Latin A, 1 Latin 2 Latin 3, Economics 3, Geology 2,
Fri. Philosophy 2
16 P.M. Education 4, Psychology 1
A.M. History 1 History 1 Applied Math. 1, 2
Sat. - History 2, 3
a P.M. Biology 2 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5. Business 2
| Mon. A.M.
4 P.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Bible 3, 4, 6. Astronomy, Geology 1
AM. Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
a Economics 2, Education 2
P.M. Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 5, 6. Business 3,
Psychology 4
A.M. Economics 1, Psychology 3,
| Wed. Ms Geology 3
Ke P.M. English 1 .| English 2 English 4, 5, 7, 10
A.M. Physics 1 Physics 2 Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Thur. Political Science 2
cE P.M. ] Spanish A, 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Fine Arts 2 ;
Physical Education
A.M. Political Science 1
| Fri. Education 3
S P.M. German A German 1 German 3, 4. Philosophy 1,
Economics 4, Polit. Science 4
| Sat. A.M. French A, 1 | French 2 French 5, 6, 7, 8, Fine Arts 1.
2.
oo P.M. -ROTC1 | ROTC 2 ROTC 3, 4
The unsubdued frosh co-eds later marched | while, there came a big, strong, kind man, Graduates Forget
\through downtown strects in snake dance|who said, ‘Let me take your burden; I
|formation, shouting to the world that they know that it is*too heavy for you.’ Then College Education|

University of California Finds From |

Questionnaires That Graduates
Do Not Retain Knowledge
Gained in College

Calit—-(IP)—When the Uni- |

Berkeley,

versity of California decided to find out how |

much important information they learned as

students is still retained in the minds of its |

alumni, the results were not so good.

Most of the alumni, in fact, don’t even
want to recall having seen the questionnaire,
which went as follows:

1, Which state was formerly known as
Desert?

2. What is the oldest university in North
America ?

3. When did the Holy Roman Empire go
out of existence?

4. What famous American revolutionary
leader later served in the Russian navy?

5. For what are the plains of Abraham
famous ?

6. What famous geographer gave his name
to two continents?

7. Approximately when did Buddha live?

8. Who said, “They shall not crucify la-
bor on,this cross of gold”?

9. Who were the Boxers?

10. Who were the Shoguns?

11. Who is known as the father of his-
tory?

12. What was the Jacquerie?

13. What was the Hundred Days?

14. In what war did the Charge of the
Light Brigade take place?

15. What are the ABC powers?

Literary Societies

The last meeting of the Eumenian and
Philanthropic Literary Societies before the
holidays will be held next Tuesday night
at 6:45.

The societies have gained a new lease on
life this year, having given many interest-
ing and worth-while programs since the be-
ginning of the semester.

The program of the Eumenean will con-
sist of two very interesting features. Calvin
Kuykendall will give a detailed account of
his numerous experiences encountered while
he was employed on a tramp steamer which
sailed half-way around hte world. The ship
for the most part was maneuvering in the
| Pacific. His sea-faring adventures occurred
in a period of six months which began in
the summer of 1929. Undoubtedly he has
some unique adventures to relate to us; a
keen insight of the life of a sailor, the cus-
toms of a Filipino, something of the Orient,
and some secrets of the great Pacific. The
next thing will be a talk by Bob Lynn, a
Freshman, Davidson’s only representative
from the State of Minnesota, in which he
will reveal to the society all the outstanding
features of the great milling state. This
will conclude the program schedule for 1930.

The program of the Philanthropic will be
devoted to John Greenleaf Whittier, that
beloved American poet. There will be fine
| detaits eel are as follows: (1) His a
| by Cowan, ; (2) His Best Work,
ly. Oz. aes a Comparison of witiies
with Kipling, by Stewart Noblin; (4) Is

| American Literature Equal to English Lit-
| erature and Why? by J. W. McCutchan, and
18) Humorous Selections by Steadman, R.

This will give those who take advantage
ot it a chance to become acquainted with
lsome of the, finest American literature and
American poets.

one of the most renowned

| SS
Mrs. S. Moore (to boy with two dogs) :
“Have you licenses on both of those logs ee
Fred Morris: “No’'m the big all
lright, but the little one’s just full of ’em.”
-Exchange.

( ne’ Ss

Preacher: “No, you must not smoke. Men
who smoke too much tobacco get tobacco
heart; and people who drink too much coffee

sone
|

feet coffee hei iy

Jimmy : “If I eat a lot of sweet things
| will I get a sweetheart?”
}

Mildred G., practice teaching:
“Words ending in ‘full of’; as
joyous means full of joy and vigorous means
full if vigor. Now give an example of such

doing

‘ous’ mean

a word.”
M. Kate: “Pious.”
Lecturer: “Allow me, before I close, to

repeat the immortal words of Webster—”

Jerry (to his wife): “Lan’ sakes, M’ria,
let's get outa here. He's goin’ t’ start on th’
dictionary !”

Customer: “A Swiss cheese sandwich on
rye bread, please.”

Counter Man (repeating order): “Swiss

on rye.”

Customer: “I beg your pardon, I wonder
if I could change my order to American
cheese ?”

Counter Man: “Naturalize that Swiss!”

By means of a new local anesthetic pa-
tients may listen in to radio while under-
going a surgical operation. Some, however,
firmly demand chloroform.—London Opinion.

HANES PROVIDES

soft, long-lived.

masculine company, yet smarter
made,

both trunk and chest.

If you wear summer weights all
ing styles, rich materials and many
and HANES Shirts and Shorts.

—_ —“

LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear
grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or
binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are

HANES is a man’s underwear.

Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit.
It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-
heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of

REAL UNDERWEAR

Dungarees couldn’t ask for more
or more up-to-date underwear isn’t

year round, be sure to see the pleas-
special features in HANES Athletics

oe,

| H

pte

