EVERYBODY
MAKES PLANS TO

he Davidsonian

DOCTOR
HARRY RIMMER

BE MAKES HIS
SafunoAy myo Tne
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII No. 5

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 16, 1930

Harry Rimmer to Speak
Again at Y.M.C.A.Vespers

Versatile Minister Will Speak to
Students in Detail on Authenti-
city of Bible

WAS PRIZE FIGHTER

Now Located at Kansas State
Teachers’ Colege

Announcement has been made to the ef-
fect that Dr. Harry Rimmer, the famous
archaeologist, scientist, physician, pastor, and
former prize fighter, of Los Angeles, Calif.,
will speak at Davidson next Sunday after-
noon and the following Sunday at 5:30 p. m.
At these two times, the. supper hour will be
moved to 5 o’clock. Dr. Rimmer will come
here from the Second Presbyterian Church,
Charlotte, where he is holding a series of
services from October 12 until November 2.
His messages range mostly, as many  stu-
dents will recall, in the proving of the au-
thenticity of the Bible in every detail. As an
evidence of his popularity among Davidson
men, it might be stated that several stu-
dents have been going over to Charlotte to
attend the night services, and they never
come back disappointed. Due to his varied
interests and qualifications, the “Y’’ wishes
to extend a special invitation to all towns-
people to attend the services as well as to
urge that no student miss the opportunity
to hear this man, who has caught the inter-
est of the entire student bodies of Emory
University, Agnes: Scott, and many other
schools of note.

The Atlanta Journal says: ‘Doctor Rim-
mer is just the sort of man yout would like
to have to make a pep talk to your football
team before it takes the field. We would say
that he is between the ages of 25 and 38
years, and has a punch and keen wit that
makes his talks fascinating even when he is
discussing skulls and skeletons, and bones,
of long-departed brethren.” :

Dr. Rimmer’s biography is of intense in-
terest. From welterweight boxing champion
of the Pacific Fleet, he was converted and
gave his life to the cause of Christ. Since
that time he has become pastor of one of
the largest churches in Los Angeles, Calif.
He is also a physician, and many noted doc-
tors and surgeons have remarked that he
never uses a scientific term incorrectly.

At present he is Curator of the Museum
ot the State Teachers College of Kansas. His
time is now divided between scientific re-
search, direction of the affairs of the Mu-
seum, and lecturing and preaching in
churches and colleges throughout the coun-
try.

To hear this man is to hear a scientist and
a minister discuss in a new light the age-
old question of science and religion. Bear-
ing this out, Mr. Tom Glasgow said in his
vesper talk last Sunday aftetnoon, “In my
upholding of the Bible, Doctor Rimmer has,
in his wonderful proofs of the authenticity
of the Bible, changed me from an offensive
to a defensive policy. I urge you not to miss
the great opportunity to hear him.”

Actors to Present
Play at Home-coming

First Offering of Red and Black
Masquers is Rehearsed

In their first appearance of the school year
on the night of Saturday, November 15, the
Red and Black Masquers, Davidson College
dramatic club, will present “The Fourth
Wall” or “The Perfect Alibi,’ in Cham-
bers Auditorium. The curtain will rise at
7:30. This will form a part of the program
for Home-Coming Day.

Consisting of three acts, with a total of
five scenes, the play supposedly takes place
at the Sussex country home of Arthur Lud-
grove. Clothed in an English atmosphere, the
drama presents a combination of comedy
and mystery effects, in which the facts of
the dilemma are known to the audience.

In brief, Arthur Ludgrove is murdered by
Edward Carter and Edward Laverick in re-
venge for a sentence which Ludgrove had
formerly passed on them. The crime has all

(Continued on page 5)

College Conference —

Convenesin Durham

Dr. E. C, Brooks was elected president of |
the North Carolina College Conference at |
their meeting at Durham on October 11. |
Dr. Brooks is president of the North Caro- |
lina State College at Raleigh and is widely
known throughout the state. His many
friends rejoice-with him in his recent elec-
tion because this is quite a distinctive posi-
tion. The conference feels that with Dr.
Brooks’ varied experience that he is thor-
oughly capable of discharging the duties con-
nected with this office.

The other officers named were: Dr. W. H.
Frazer of Charlotte, president of Queens-
Chicora College, vice-president, and Prof.
N. W. Walker, of the University of North
Carolina, secretary-treasurer. Professor Wal-
ker was re-elected.

|
Three new members of the executive com-

mittee were chosen, as follows: Dr. W. L
Lingle, president of Davidson College; Dr.
A. T. Allen, State Superintendent of Public
Instruction, and Prof. Holland Holton, of
Duke University. These three new men are
sure to prove most valuable in their new
capacities.

The conference voted to invite the Asso-
ciation of Southern Colleges and Secondary
Schools to meet at Duke University next |
year. This association discusses problems that
confront the modern college. Through the
suggestions that are offered, solutions are
reached, and many puzzling problems are
solved.

Registrar Releases
Student Statistics

As is shown by the following statistics,
supplied by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar,
Davidson College has an unusually cosmo-
politan student body this year, twenty-three |
of the forty-eight states being represented |
and five foreign countries. \

In comparing the courses the members of
the student body are taking, it is found that |
the B.S. in commerce leads all others, with |
the A.B. 2 coming second, and the B.S. 1,|
A.B. 1, Special, and Pre-Med courses fol- |
lowing in order.

The list of occupations of parents of the |
students, and the occupations the students |
intend pursuing for their life work also}
shows interesting variations. |

States represented :

North’ Garolina-.----------22---s2----. 385 |
Southe Gatolinas ooo eee a eee 42
Georgia soe eee ee See Se 38
Winginiay se netetaw cuses Ua Bee 38 |
WrestaVitginiaes <2. 0tns oe ee 37 |
MON ae ike oe sooo ace ooo See 25 |
PRENnNCSSCC 22 an Seca eee ee sue 22 |
Jo NEVE 0 Fie eg eet ie pa ae on et 21
Mississippi ----- 12
New York . 6)
eouisianay sss sone. se) one on ec 5|
Mexas ie to oie ee ee ee it 5|
INGWa) CLSCYs cee seecle eo ree oat 4]
ICT CCH ys ee ee 3 |
Connecticut e soo oe ee 2 |
IMaty Andes se cee So ite ey 2 |
Ohip ets a see eno eee 2|
California |
District of Columbia--------------_---- 1)
MESO beso ee eee Se oe 1
Rennsylvania: esos. 522 ee ee 1
Michigan 22: soc we ee ees eee 1
IMiNnneSOtad soo eee eee eC ea 1
China 2|
Brazil 1}
ISNT EW SCE VE ag a ce pay 1
IMPOXSGO fos ee ee os ee ees et 1
Degrees being taken: |
BIS ieee sone or hee eee oe 221
Jo) 2}, 3 21> Oe GS ee ge ai rege epeeerat oniere tor 183
BAG lessees ee ee eee eS 166
PRO Wea gees Nee es Jn ne 21
Special 17
gS 9
Vocations of students:
Medica cost SS me eee so sae 99
Business 105
IM GtitET EO, eee ee ee 63
JIA? ee es a eee 62
VGARLITT eal ee ee 35
Engineers iene n ees 33
as (Continued on page 5)

Dr. H. E. Kirk to Give

Series of Talks in Dec.

To Speak on “Man’s Place in Nature
and Beyond”

Dr. Harris E. Kirk, pastor of the Frank-
lin Street Presbyterian Church of Baltimore/
Md., will come to Davidson College in De-
cember to deliver a series of five lectures
to the Davidson student body. Dr. Kirk has
already announced his subject to be ‘Man's
Place in Nature and Beyond.”

The appearance of this prominent south-
ern religious leader is made possible through
a fund established in 1893 by the late Dr.
J. M. P. Otts, who specified that the fund
“should be used from time to time in secur-
ing and publishing courses of lectures at
Davidson College in defense of Christianity
against current heresies, especially such as
may seem directed against the foundations
of the Christian faith.”

Four series of lectures have been deliy-
ered, the last one by the late Dr. Walter
W. Moore, president of the Union Seminary
at the time of his death. Upon recommenda-
tion, the Board of Trustees decided to let
the fund accumulate until it totaled $10,000.
This sum was reached last year, and the
trustees authorized the giving of them again,
and selected Dr. Kirk for the task. His lec-
tures will be published in book form after
they are delivered here.

LingleandMcConnell
Attend Synod Meet

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Da-
vidson College, and Dr.-‘}. M. McConnell,
dean of instruction and head of the History
Department, are now representing Davidson
College at simultaneous meetings of the
Synods of North Carolina and Florida. Dr.
Lingle will attend the session at Wilming-
ton, beginning on Tuesday, while Dr. Mc-
Connell will go to DeFuniak Springs, Fla.,
for the meeting in that state.

Dr. Lingle is chairman of the ad interim
committee of the North Carolina Synod. As-
sociated with him are Dr. C. M. Richards
of Davidson, Z. V. Turlington of Moores-
ville, and Dr. W. B. McIlwaine and Dr. R.
H. Lafferty of Charlotte. This committee
will make a report and recommendation that
the appointment of ten standing committees
be abolished, and that the Synod’s work com-
mittee be the central unit-of activity for this
state,

In explaining the recommendation, Dr.
Lingle pointed out that these various sub-
committees overlap the work of the larger
group known as the “work committee” and
that considerable time was lost in getting
matters before the Synod for consideration.
Included in the-recommendation, provided it
is adopted, is the suggestion that “any time
which may be saved by this more direct
method” will be utilized ‘in educational and
inspirational services.”

Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of
the University of Chicago, and Frank Por-
ter Graham, president of the University of
North Carolina, will be the principal speak-
ers at the third annual Southern Conference
on Education at the University of North
Carolina, October 30, 31 and November 1
and 2.

MR. JACKSON TO SPEAK
OVER WBT

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer of
Davidson College, will deliver a
fifteen-minute address on “The De-
velopment of Public Accounting as
a Profession” over station WBT,
Charlotte, Friday night. This talk
will be in conjunction with the ban-
quet of the North Carolina Asso-
ciation of Certified Public Account-
ants, which will hold a two day ses-
sion, Friday, and Saturday, in Char-
lotte.

The hour has not been definitely
decided upon, but it is believed that
it will be between eight and: nine

Active Work Begun
on New Publication

News concerning the humor magazine to
be published at Davidson this year for the
first time in several.years is at last avail-
able.

W. C. Ragin, editor of the humorous pub-
lication, announced last Monday that the
name for the would be “The
Yowl.” This name was chosen after consid-
ering several other names that it was thought
would not be suitable. The contract for the
printing of the magazine has been let to the
Queen City Printing Company of Charlotte,
and already nearly enough material has
been gathered for the publishing of the first

Issue,

magazine

The Yow! will be published three times
a year, the approximate dates of its appear-
ances being on November 1, February 1, and
May 1. It will contain cartoons, humorous
plays, stories and jokes; it will have a two-
color cover and will have from thirty to
thirty-five pages of printed matter.

The staff of The Yow! will be chosen
from the result of the work on the first
issue, and any members of the student body
who feel that they are either artistically
or humorously inclined will be given an op-
portunity to write or draw as the case may
be.

[fo Ut,

ness manager of the publication and is at

Henderlite has been chosen busi-
work trying to-finance the cartoons of the
magazine. Work is going forward on The
Yowl very rapidly and Ragin expressed an
optimistic opinion that it would be a “yowl-
ing” success.

Red. Crone Workers
Hold Meeting Here

N. C. Chapters Hold Meeting in
- Chambers Auditorium

North Carolina chapters of the American
Red Cross have a tremendous field of serv-
ice open to them in the United States Vet-
erans’ Hospital at Oteen, according to Miss
Mabel Boardman, of Washington, D. C.,
executive secretary to the national board of
directors of the American Red Cross, who
made the principal address here Thursday
before the regional conference of the West-
ern North Carolina Division of this organ-
ization.

Two sessions were held, .the one in the
morning being devoted largely to brief talks
by Red Cross workers of this section, while
the afternoon’s meeting was featured by
Miss Boardman’s address. William C. Hunt,
also of Washington, D. C., and assistant
manager of the eastern the
morning program with a comprehensive dis-
cussion of the financial outlook of the nation-

area, closed

.al body. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of

Davidson, extended a cordial welcome to the
84 visitors who attended the conference.

A luncheon in the banquet hall of Cham-
bers Building, at Davidson, was presided over
by Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., of Charlotte, this
executive officer also occupying the chair

in the afternoon. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of
Davidson, presided in the morning.
In her address Miss Boardman also |

stressed the importance of the approaching
Red Cross roll call. “The business depres-
sion will send back to us disabled veterans
for which we must provide, and the outlay
of $550,000 to distressed people in 23 states
who have suffered from the great drouth
are outstanding reasons why the Red Cross
membership should be increased,” she said.

Miss Boardman announced that unless
American people responded to this roll call,
that 26,000 persons gn the regular staffs of
hospitals throughout America would have to
be released. As a contrast,.she pointed out
that 20,000,000 Americans were members of
the Red Cross during the war, and that now
there are 4,000,000.

The address of Mr. Hunt was largely de-
voted to the operations of the disaster relief
funds: “On the average there are one hun-
dred disasters a year in the United States,”
he said, “but no individual chapter has been
asked for more than one or two contribu-
tions.” He traced in detail the expenditure

(Continued on page 5)

Citadel Meets Wildcats
In Charlotte Saturday

Cadets’ Veteran Team Out to
Avenge 7-6 Defeat of Last
Year

EVENLY MATCHED TEAMS

Coach Floyd in His First Year at
Citadel Produces Good Team

The Cadets of Citadel meet Davidson Sat-
urday afternoon in Charlotte at the Central
High Stadium in a battle for revenge of last
year’s stinging defeat, administered by the
toe of Thad Brock, who kicked for an extra
point to-beat-Citadel,-7-6.-The-Gadets_return
this year with virtually the same line-up
that was cheated out of a hard fought vic-
tory last year. This battle in Charlotte will
draw the attention of the majority of the
state, as it is the only engagement of a Big
Five team playing at home on that after-
noon, State and Wake Forest are scheduled
to have their tussle on Thursday.

Very few Sophomores have broken into
the Citadel line-up this year as a team com-
posed of Juniors and Seniors has taken the
field against every foe. This veteran team
has won three tilts and lost one to Clemson
by the close score of 13-7, which is a record
most any team would like to make. Both
and Citadel about
equally well in their first games this fall,
giving the dopesters nothing to chose from.
With two fighting teams that are playing
on a par with each other, a real battle is

Davidson have played

bound to ensue.

In her first game of the season Citadel
looked ragged to eke out a meager victory
over Stetson
13-7. A Charleston crowd looked on dazed
as the game into the last quarter
with Stetson leading the way in scoring, but
just about two minutes before the whistle,
Red Whittington caught a pass and fell over
the goal line for the winning marker. Fol-
lowing this game Citadel has used passes
as one of its chief weapons and they have
proved formidable With this attack.

Against Erskine the next Saturday the
Cadets showed a versatile attack, a
stiffer defense, which was totally lacking in

from Florida by a score of

moved

more

the first game. Sweeping around end and
cutting sharply through the line, Red Whit-
tington and McIntosh carried Citadel to a
two-touchdown victory over Erskine.

The third game resulted in the Bulldogs’
first defeat, at the hands of a big team from
Clemson by the margin of one touchdown
only, Citadel displayed a great amount of
fight in this game to hold the Tigers to two
tallies and then mark up themselves.
This game, along with the Erskine game,
are the only ones that give any indication
of the strength of the two
teams. Citadel beat [Erskine by two touch-
downs while Davidson the
team by three markers, but in the mean-
while Clemson beats Citadel by only one
touchdown and then romped on N. C. State
for four touchdowns. This, if you will fig-

one

comparative

defeated same

ure it up, makes both teams even so far
as comparative scores go, since Davidson de-
feated State by only two markers.

Last Saturday in a hard fought contest
the Bulldogs, again using a pass in the clos-
ing minutes of the game, overcame the lead
which V. M. I. held, to down them by one
point, 7-6. During the first half both teams
fought to a standstill, neither team gaining
any headway over the other. The Flying
Squadron opened up the second half to march
to a touchdown, only to be overhauled by the
hard fighting Bulldogs in the closing minutes
of play. The Bulldogs’ terrific tackling soon
wore the V. M. I. backs down and*that to-
gether with the outstanding play of Carlisle,
end, and Wilson, quarter, spelled defeat for
the green team from Virginia.

Captain “Pop” Wilson will lead a thor-
oughly seasoned team onto the field Satur-
day afternoon that has had plenty of experi-
ence and has seen many large teams oppos-
ing them. Most every man from end to end
has played against Davidson before and some
have played twice against the Wildcats.

In the starting line-up last week, Ryan
started at left end with Brown at right end.
Ryan is a light, heady player and played in
practically every game last year. Brown was

(Continued on page 5)
