>

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents ‘per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

=
ZEB -Vi_LONG,: J fist scescvcsacccscscccscesadas Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Busi M

EDITORIAL STAFF
. B. BLACK ues
. W. McCUTCHAN
. C, RAGIN

P. R. ALDERMAN...-....... thletic Editor
J. V. D,,. MIDDLETON............-....... Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON ‘eature Editor
LS SBROWN Pace coisas iseus cic cdu aaa eee Feature Editor
F, JARRATT.... A i itor

MILLER As

D. iate Editor
M. PRATT..... A

Editor

K
¢

|

BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
t TBO WD ntusa esa ges eae Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER.: PEELS Solicitor
Pp. SER GONIWAY Seeccccccusvaccascausk Solicitor
- H., McKINNON.....-200.220o.. Solicitor
. O. MANN be Wauuees olicitor
. E. RUFF. uSenue licitor
. L. SEVIER. Solicit

=———_—_——

i Aad died
oem me cww cn nncnwnccccecccnwnencccus ice- President
D. MIDDLETON ._.._.._.---....... Secretary-Treasurer

=RRY . G. DUNKLIN

W. F. SPENCER

. SMT W.
p. 9 STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROWN
ae peg N G, P. PARDINGTON

’ MATTHEWS, W. H.
DWELLE, E. C.

MARCH 6, 1930
————

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Not for many moons has such a series of
parties and entertainments as the student body
is now experiencing taken place. Pan-Hellen-
ics, Seniors, Sophs, Juniors wave their banners
in furious succession, each group eager to
outdo the others. It only remains for the fresh-
men to carry on in a social way.

The time is ripe to start working on those new
men you would like to see at Davidson next Sep-
tember. Personal contacts do more to get the
Prospect than anyother one thing. Go after that
athlete or all-around good fellow in your home
town, and do it now!

So Georgetown University opens the national
game here! Fine business, we say. The more
intersectional meetings Davidson can arrange,
the better her athletic reputation will become.
And it won’t be out of order at all for Monk to

ease a win over the Washingtonians on the
20th.

The papers these days are full of reviews of
President Hoover’s first year in office. And that re-
minds us that soon we will be looking back over
another year gone in the name of Davidson, Make
that real fellow that’s in you simply outdo himself
this spring in worthwhile jobs.

Converse was up to form again this year, but
then, that’s to be expected. The Spartanburg
collegians have always brought good programs
to Davidson. We notice, of course, that they’ve
cut the little specialties and skits which used to
bring Old Shearer down on the heads of the
‘enthusiastic onlookers.

Davidson’s proposed attempt to conduct radio
broadcasts: from Chambers Auditorium has fallen
through, at least for the time being. It seems that
the authorities couldn’t quite see enough program
material ahead to justify intensive preparations
at present. Still, the idea is good, and we are hop-
ing to see the Wildcat on the air yet.

We suggest to the new cheer leader that he
begin immediately on the search for new yells
and songs. Some that are used now are just
about to become monotonous after years and
years of worthy service. There can’t be too
many “pep revivals” at Davidson or anywhere
else.

The perennial Wildcat, Doctor Charlie, is looking
up again as baseball rolls into view. He’s ready to
grab that post behind the plate and charm the
twirling pellet smack across the rubber provided
a Wildcat wants it there. The hunt for potent
rabbit feet continues.

TO THE FACULTY

Saturday evening last saw the college fac-
ulty literally give themselves to the in-
terests of students in a demonstration which
will hardly be forgotten or unappreciated by
any who had the good fortune to present at
the festivities characterizing that occasion.
For the second successive year, the Seniors
were guests at a strictly/social affairs given
in their honor by professors and wives
whose sincerity was evident in the proceed-
ings of the entertainment and in the won-
-derful atmosphere of good fellowship which

enveloped the whole gathering at that time.

It is most significant that college men
here have the distinct privilege of associat-
ing with supervisors who are not only ca-
pable, but willing to arrange and offer such
a satisfying gesture of good-will and indi-
cation of the desire to serve the students di-
rectly. We cannot imagine another college
of our acquaintance as supplying the setting
for a spirit like the one shown by the fac-
ulty here last week.

It is not a matter for Seniors alone to
think about and return merited praise, but
the larger body of men in the college should
remember events of the nature explained as
conclusive proof that the members of the
faculty are doing much to preserve the
traits which are Davidson’s own, in fact are
sending them on into higher levels of per-
fection.

THE MAN AND HIS CHOICE

Few men come to college without inten-
tions of making good. Occasionally, per-
haps, some ne’er do well drops ip whose
sole purpose is to waste two or fffree years
before he steps into a nice job, long pre-
pared for him by more efficient and careful
hands, but such persons are in a distinct mi-
nority. To most of us the proposition is

.clear; that much now and in the future de-

pends on use made of opportunities in col-
lege.

Maybe we have a deep seated feeling that
books alone hold the key which will give us
the right to walk into the street of life with
better than even chances of going its
length successfully. Maybe we forget, or
maybe we never understand, that something
more must go with books, with athletics,
with whatever else we may attain, if those
means of development are to meet the re-
quirements of an exacting world. At any
rate, it is plain to see that a multitude of
college men are falling behind as they neg-
lect the fundamental habits and thoughts
which alone can bring the needed element of
character, a quality much discussed and all
too seldom attained in superlative degrees.

On every side yousee men who are con-
tent t omeet the conventional necessities of
keeping up to a passing mark on their tick-
ets, of meeting social obligations which na-
turally arise in an assemblage of students,
of winning for themselves the name of,
“good fellow,” in general circles at least.
Centering their activities to the point of

many things and mastering none, fellows of
this sort seem prone to drift away from the
finer traits which should be finding expres-
sion at the formative period of life.

Then, you see disregard for the rules of
conduct which have been born and bred with
the growth of the institution. You see a
spirit of independence springing up which its
harmful in that it leads the possessor to
feel that his desires are bigger than the gen-
eral tone of the school. He gradually slips

2into bad habits, gets out of the normal run

of college life, and undermines his founda-
tions for years to come, through not inten-
tionally doing so. The determination to
stand for the best his college had to offer
was probably lacking from the start, and
the true possibilities of his particular situa-
tion was never realized.

To every freshman, ‘in particular, we
would say now: Either enter into the ex-
pression of those fine principles which
you know very well Davidson represents to
the world, or and a school at which you will
do yourself more justice and go there before
it is too late. Carelessness or open antagon-
ism in the matter of standards set for the
college and maintained by a great percen-
tage of the students will soon or later
lead to grief. Most cases of dismissal from
school come about because the offender
tried to beat the game a little too often in
his own way and for his own pleasure.

There is no driving power in this matter
\of lining up on the right side except the
man. Nobody is out to beg men into the
most profitable way of thinking. The pan-
orama of a great Christian college is before
every Davidson man today. In that picture
we see honor above all, clean living, sports-
manship, good manners, and the other at-
tributes which go into the makeup of a man
who can challenge his fellows confidently.
Any man who'can think can see which way
holds the promise of lasting values. The man
who follows the other is treading dangerous
ground,

POLITICAL CLOUDS

The/senatorial fight between F. M. Sim-
mons and J. W. Bailey is arousing interest
among college men to a degree which ap-
proaches the intensity marking the Smith-
Hoover campaign of a year ago. Of course,
the, situation is of particular interest to
North Carolinians, and of general interest

to out-siders, the latter’s eagerness to see

harmful exclusion, or touching lightly on’

IW. M&GUTCHAN

a on ~@ 4 ‘4 pusuietyo
‘2 tw.c. RAGIN

In the memory of all of the students on the
campus the United States has lost two of her
great statesmen. As we go to press, former
Chief Justice William Howard Taft had lapsed
into a state of coma and was not expected to
live for any length of time. His physicians
were optimistic, but there was little hope for
recovery. Mr. Taft’s series of advancements in
the political world have been unsullied by any
numerous agitations which have cast a blight
on other campaigns. He was a man of high
integrity. All students can remember when
William Jennings Bryan died, rather suddenly,
in Tennessee. He, too, was of excellent moral
calibre. To some readers it may seem a pity
that Bryan met his death while engaged in an
argument which was certainly of less moment
than most of his previous debates. Let every-
one remember, however, that both of these
men fought for the things they thought were
right.

Doubtless every reader of the Charlotte Observ-
er saw the report that “Napoleon’s necklace” had
sold for a sum, meagre in comparison to its evalu-
ation. Appraised at $300,000.00, it is said to have
been sold for only $7,270.00. Economic students will
assert that there is a question of supply and de-
mand, It would not be surprising to see the same
necklace_ bring half a million dollars within ‘six
months. The “pine-tree shilling” was exceedingly
valuable to numismatists until some individual
found a keg full of them in his cellar. Then, there
is a price offered for antiques. We personally
knew of a man who paid four dollars for an old
rickety chair; he sold it for one hundred and fifty
dollars. A new offe would have been much more
comfortable to sit in.

It is encouraging to hear that the Depart-
ment of State has determined to follow the
Monroe to the letter. In other words, although
European nations will not be permitted to in-
terfere in South or Central American affairs,
yet the United States finds no just cause for
“butting in.” One might even be safe in as-
suring oneself that Cuban or Nicaraguan out-
rages will not be repeated. Marines are fine
fighting men, but we have long failed to see
why they should be wasted on “greaser” presi-
dents and nominees just to protect American
capital that is practicing economic imperial-
ism in foreign countries. When the Pilgrims
landed they fell on their knees and then fell
on the aborigenes; their descendants have been
at the same game off and on ever since.

McIntyre tells of a young man who refused to
become a “literary prostitute.’ Hungry, and liv-
ing in abject poverty, he refused to gain profit
by using his ability to write display advertisements.
Whether this particular youth will gain a name for
himself in literature, or not, remains to be seen.
Certainly he will have a clear conscience. Doctors
work among loathsome diseases, and they often
succumb to the very curse they are striving to
eradicate. An artist or writer who sacrifices his
own physical welfare in order to give the world
something decent to read deserves as much credit.
The theory of “Arts Artis Gratia” (the genitive
should precede, despite Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) is
inspiring, and it is seldom that one can find a prac-
tical example of it.

John Rykacvewsky (sough twice please)
robed a taxi driver with a glass pistol and was
shot while attempting his get-away. Men who
have attained their majority should not be al-
lowed to play with children’s toys. He may not

results being based on the fact that the
Carolina campaign is one of far-reaching
significance in national party politics, rather
than on the two candidates involved. States
which bolted the Solid South and the Demo-
cratic Party in the 1928 elections are having
all kinds of trouble straightening out their
differences now, and the attitude manifested
by Tar Heel Democrats toward their vet-

_eran senator, who threw his support’ to

enemy lines for the first time in history,
will be keenly significant.

‘ It seems to be a question of which man
can best bring back Democratic supremacy
in the state. Voters in the primary will think
of this if they really want to return their
party to its greatest usefulness. But there
will be many who hold the charge of treason
to party paramount in this case, and will
vote for Bailey simple to hit back at Sim-
mons. Then we think there will be a lot
who refuse to vote at all, waiting to see if
the inevitable outcome will enable them to
support a candidate to the full satisfaction
of conscience. It is one grand tangle. Time
alone will make-adjustments,

In this day and time of highly developed and
strictly graded schools, how many of us remember
the little red school-house over by the hill? I
repeat my question, how many of us remember the
little old fashiened schoolhouse! I become re-
dundant, how many of us remember the cute lil’
ole red school-house? You may count the hands,
Ferdie. Well, for the benefit of the others, I'll
launch forth into a detailed description of those
good old days.

SCHOOL ‘DAYS .
or
LET’S GO TO GRAMMAR’S FUNERAL

It was Friday, the last school-day of the week,
so naturally all the little bare-foot brats and ging-
ham-gowned gals were in a hilarious mood, They
marched into the school-room, took their places,
and shuffled their feet impatiently. The teacher
called the roll and discovered that young Ignatz
was conspicuous by his absence. However, the
day had not progressed far when Ignatz strolled in.
“What do you mean by coming so late, Ignatz?”
demanded the teacher, rolling her R’s. “Er-my
horse broke a leg, ma’am,” said the tardy one.
“Which one, his front or hind leg?” snapped the
teacher who was a stickler for statistics. ““Why, it
was my brother’s leg,” sobbed Ignatz.

After the teacher had ruled that one out, she
stated that they would now recite their memory
work. Feeling rather dubious about Ignatz, stie
called him first. Iggie stood up and began:

Roses are red,

Violets are blue,

Daffodils are yellow,

And carnations are of different colors.

“Tgnatz,” said the teacher sternly, “what’s the
matter with you today? Aren’t you feeling well?”
“No, teacher,” admitted Iggie, “I’m feeling mighty
poor.” “Wassimatter?” inquired the instructor.
“Well, teacher,” explained Ignatz, “My name is
Poe, and I’m feeling poor, because I’ve been Poe
all my life.”

Suddenly, a worried expression came over the
teacher’s face. “Johnnie,” she said, “have you seen
my glasses?” Johnnie smiled sweetly and piped up,
“Why, teacher, they’re right on your nose.” “All
right then,” said the pedagogue, “I'll find them by
myself.” :

Hereupon, Johnnie opened his mouth and gave
vent to a never-sized horse laugh. Where it vent
nobody knew. “Johnnie,” said the teacher serious-
ly, “where in the world did you get such a large
mouth?” “Well, ticher,” began Johnnie, “it’s a long
sad story. I was born without a mouth and the
doctor had to make one for me. My mother told
him to cut on from ‘here to here,’ but the doctor
thought that she said from ‘ear to ear,” so here I
am,

About that time, who should enter the class-
room but the principal. He cleared his gullet and
awsked, “Has anyone here got a match?” “Here’s
a cigarette lighter,” volunteered Clarence. “My
son,” replied the good man, “how do you expect
me to pick my teeth with a cigarette lighter?”

Clarence hereupon pulled out a great big six-
gun and shot the principal upon the spot. Na-
turally, this didn’t help the principal at all, at all.
Well, after they had cleared up the remains and
painted the customary “X” on the floor, the teach-
er dismissed the class. However, Clarence had to
stay in after school and write out one hundred

times “I must not shoot in school.”

have meant any harm, but he got his spoils
before he fled. There is nothing new in the
world! We cannot recall an instance of the
nature of the suggestion that follows, but we
would appreciate any enlightenment. We
secretly suspect that some Roman youth con-
cealed a parchment dagger under his toga with
which to prey on the innocent civites. Caesar
probably had him placed before a firing squad
(please catch all anachronisms). To turn .to
actual fact, the Boston Tea Party was a clever
eceit and has been termed “patriotic.” Which
leads to the thought that the typography of
the land can change a revolt to a revolution, a
traitor to a patriot.

This column has never attempted to advertise
anything. Nevertheless, after we had seen “Anna
Christie” we tried to think of the next interesting
event that would take place. Because we were a
Sophomore last year, Junior Speaking beckons
from the near future. By chance we heard a “pre-
rehearsal” of the program to be offered on March
15, and it is good. No, we are not going to give
away any of the secrets. But, we will promise
this, namely, that the South Carolina Co-ed Fol-
lies will find themselves an added attraction when
the festivities are over. Never forget them, though,
because they'll be right here!
