‘ THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

Business Classes Hear
Lecture on Success by
Insurance Co. Director

Dr. James Giffin Points Out Ways

to Attain Success in Business
World

INSTRUCTIVE LECTURE

Concludes by Advising Indifference

to All Disappointments

The merhbers of the business classes heard
a very instructive talk last Friday afternoon, |

given by Mr. James Giffin, education di-
rector of the Phoenix Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company of New York City.

Several of the ways in which a man might
attain succéss in the business world were
pointed out by Mr. Giffin. The principal
ideas which he conveyed to those students
here who intend to engage in business for
their future life work are as follows:

We wonder what it is that makes a man
successful. There are three chief points that

need to be considered: first, insistent desire |

is necessary. Much of the ‘problem that you

are going up against is centered around the |

word “choice.” Certain things that you do
now may determine definitely what you will
do later on. Those who are at the head of

organizations now are those who have taken |

their handicaps and capitalized them effi-
ciently—this is ‘true in modern industry, for
a man has to plow and work in his par-

ticular field. The second quality can be seen |

in the words “confident expectation.” You
should be confident of yourself, then should
visualize yourself doing the job. The man
who realizes that his pay check will come
quite a long time after he has gone into it
is the confident business man. Another point
is the fact that a man must have “persistent
purpose.” It may be that we cannot pick
just the job that we want, but we can be
patient if we do get into the right job and
let the men at the top have confidence in
us. We are living in a world in which we
tend to get into an organization and in this
way we get that strong feeling to “stick to
it.’ The miracle takes place when a man
obtains self-confidence. There is a great deal
in ability to live in the present—the thing
we do today is the cause of a lot of things
we do tomorrow—there is a long road to
this life and the business man must make
the best of it. You will notice in business
today that there is a spirit of service.

PICK UPS AND PASSES

(Continued from page 3)
and two with Duke, one here, and one in
Durham. The game with the Blue Devils
will close the schedule for the Wildcats
here on May 15. Duke has not been met
yet this year. The other two games are with
Lenoir-Rhyne.
f Mound, eee, 3
Word in a Georgetown paper states that
the Georgetown team has not lost a single
game since they dropped their opener to
Monk Younger’s men. Their string of vic-
tories now numbers 10 out of 11 starts.
Poole, the hurler who started the game here
for the Hilltoppers, but had to be relieved,
has not had to be taken out of any more
games, and only one other pitcher has had
to be relieved. Their competition has been
some of the best that the East has to offer
this spring, and ous “consideration will
have to be given the Capital City boys in
naming the Eastern champions this year.
Rooke
Pat Crawford, one of the best men who
ever played on a Davidson baseball team,
is at present captain and managér of the
second string team of the New York Giants.
Recently the hard hitting first sacker con-
tinued the good old habit started by his
Alma Mater last fall of giving Uncle Sam’s
soldier boys up the Hudson lots of trouble.
In a game between West Point and the
Giant Yannigans, Crawford knocked out
four hits in six trips to the plate, besides
turning in a perfect game in the field.
Crawford, who joined the Giants last
spring, coached for a year or two after
leaving Davidson, then went into profes-
sional ball, rising rapidly’ to the major
league class. John McGraw says he is one
of the sweetest playing and smartest pros-
pects'to come up in some time, and keeps a
firm hold on him, even though the Giants
have one of the best first basemen in the
majors in Bill Terry. Were it not for the
brilliance of Terry, Pat would be doing a
lot more for the Giants than warming the
bench, or getting in to pinch hit occasion-
ally.
ye
Crowds at the Wake Forest and Caro-
lina games were awfully good during the
first five or six innings, but began to thin
out after that. Stick with ’em, men, STICK!

| Biblical Art, Theme
Of Dr. Derendinger

Dr. Ernest Derendinger gave a very inter-
, esting and instructive lecture here April 16
}on “The Way of the Cross as Depicted in
Art.” Many beautiful slides were shown
throughout the talk and gave those attend-
}ing an excellent insight into the way me-
dieval artists conceived the crucifixion of
Christ. Dr. Derendinger was born in Switzer=
| land and has studied in the leading univer-
| sities of Germany. He is a’ much-traveled
|man and is now professor of German and
| art at Catawba College.

| The first slides shown were scenes from
| Present day Jerusalem, illustrating the
| Church of the Sepulchre as built by the
| mother of Constantine. Pictures were also
| shown of the garden of Gethsemane and the
Mount of Olives. The scene was then
changed to Bethlehem, which is almost as it
| was in the time of Christ. Next, after show-
| ing a few of the characters which take part
| in the Passion Week as presented today in
Oberammergau, George Pardington, accom-
panied by Paul Fry, sang “The Holy City.”

Then Dr. Derendinger pictured the last
week in. Christ’s life on earth as depicted
by the great artists of all ages. These slides
brought clearly before one’s eye that fear-
ful time of the trial and crucifixion of our
Lord.

The final scene was a picture of “The
Light of the World,’ who knocks at the
door of every man’s heart.

This lecture was under the auspices of
{the Fine Arts Department.

'Local Girl Editor

| Of Converse Paper

Miss Sarah Withers, of Davidson, who is
a Junior at Converse College,, Spartanburg,
S. C., has been recently elected next year’s
editor of .the “Parley Voo,” weekly news-
paper of Converse. Miss Withers ‘pas been
an outstanding member of the Junior Class,
taking a prominent part in all forms of.class
activities. She has played a large part in the
publication of “Parley Voo,” acting first as
circulation manager, and this year as man-
aging editor.

Miss Withers is a graduate of Davidson
High School and is the attractive daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers, of this
city.

PLANS FOR BANQUET

(Continued from page 1)

enlist every member of the Student Body
in support of this project designed to pro-
mote the welfare of the institution. The
small sum charged for tickets is necessary
to cover banquet expenses. Further informa-
tion will be given at chapel Tuesday morn-
ing. Until that time, all hands are working
under a veil of secrecy. A

College authorities and alumni are in
hearty accord with this attempted project of
the Senior Class, They feel, as do the Sen-
iors, that a real service can be rendered to
Davidson through this common meeting of
the students, and it is expected that a prece-
dent» will be set which will be highly re-
garded in future years.

In conclusion, Mr. Giffin explained that
in the face of all the disappointments that
the business man has to face, he should look
at it from the viewpoint that “This doesn’t
make any difference. It makes no difference
what happens. Is it going to get the best of
me?”

Track Team Scores
Victory Over State

’Cats Come From Behind to Win
Close Meet

In a track and field meet held at Raleigh
on Friday, April 18, Davidson, with Whittle
as high point man, nosed out N. C. State by
a score of 651% to 60%.

State held a two-point lead at the last
event on the program, the broad jump, and
the Wildcats needed six points to win or
five points to tie. They «stepped out and
clinched the matter by scoring eight. Mc-
Call leaped .22 feet 2 inches and took first
place, while Whittle jumped 20 feet 10 inches
for second.

In the preceding event, the javelin, David-
son took all three places to come within
two points of the State total at the time.
The Techmen were out in front practically
all the time until the last two events. In
addition to taking second in the broad jump,
Whittle was first in the }-yard dash and
in the high and low hurdles, and placed
third in the 220, Dean Patterson, with the
first in the shot and javelin, was high point
man for State with 10 points, while Whittle
scored 19,

State made a clean sweep in the half-mile,
which was won by McGinn in two min-
utes flat, and placed one-two in both the
220-yard dash, the quarter-mile, and the
mile. Alexander, Tech distance runner, with
a fast time, won easily from Brannon, the
Davidson entry, in the two-mile event.

Summary :

100 Yards—Whittle (D); Stout
Brohard (D). Time, 10 2-5 seconds.

220 Yards—Stout (S); Ottinger
Whittle (D). Time, 22 3-5 seconds.

440 Yards—Ottinger (S); Floyd (S);
Brohard (D). Time, 50 3-5 seconds.

(S);

(S);

880 Yards—McGinn (S); Floyd (S);
Ricks (S). Time, 2 ininutes.

Mile—Johnson (S); Ricks (S); Laf-
ferty (D). Time, 4:38 4-5.

Two Miles—Alexander (S); Beannon
(D); Brock (S). Time, 10:20.

Low Hurdles—Whittle (D); George

(D); Swain (S). Time, 27 seconds.
High Hurdles—Whittle (D); George
(D); Griffin (S). Time, 15 2-5 seconds.
Pole Vault—Black (S), and Brock (D),
tied for first; Johnson (S), and Smith (D),
tied for third. Height, 11 feet.
High Jump—Wilson (D); Allen
Black (S). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.
Shot—Patterson (S); Boyle (D); Hall
(D). Distance, 41 feet 3 inches.
Discus—Patterson (S); Boyle (D); Hall
(D). Distance, 124 feet 11 inches.
Javelin—Coble (D) ; McCall (D) ; Brock
(D). Distance, 161 feet 1 inch.
Broad Jump—McCall (D) ; Whittle (D) ;
Stout (S). Distance, 22 feet 2 inches.
Total scores: Davidson 65%; N. C.
State 6014.

Hill Attends Meeting
Of Military Order

Left Tuesday for Scabbard and
Blade Convention

(D);

Cadet Lieut-Col. Hill, of Statesville,
highest ranking cadet officer in the David-
son College R. O. T. C. unit, left here
Tuesday to attend the biannual conven-
tion of Scabbard and Blade, national hon-
Orary military fraternity, which was held
at Minneapolis, Minn., April 24-26. Hill is
a member of the local chapter of Scab-
bard and Blade, and is being sent as the
delegate of the local group. The conven-

{

Lanning Pitches Great
Game as ‘Deacons’ Win

Capt. Tom Linning, star hurler of the
Wake Forest Demon Deacons, sent the
Davidson boys back to the benches with
only five scattered hits and no runs, while
his teammates were rolling up six count-
ers to give the Baptists their second vic-
tory over the ’Cats this season, 6 to 0, on
Richardson Field Friday. Lanning
struck out eight men and allowed only
one Wildcat to go as far as third base.

last

Considering the dampness of the field
and a slight drizzle toward the end of the
game, it was excellently played. Mills,
Deacon second baseman, played an ex-
ceptionally good game, making five outs
and three assists without an error. Par-
rish and Goodson together obtained four
of the five Davidson hits, while Allen,
Cobb, and Reynolds all got two safe
bingles.*

Rox scdre:

Wake Forest ABRHOA
AALIGH PONS: auc Gubateccuasccs0 (0772 20:20
Mills, 2b pusueec couse Ob ie oe G
MOUstiI huleseccocconues esd ee leele20
Gilleeple;G. sock ee ace ec se s3e We Ree
OUD Gh ounces lcleee sec dl a2 00)
BOntON ob. jee eed le eg
Rem tie csesccoscee ey Ve) Ve eet (0)
ReVHOldSs; 10 cscsoco-- ecco eee ls 2 8) al
pATINIT ia eeeeeeees sence eeu0s 08.0082

Totals cae Rope Neraatd iy yay 72 WI

Davidson ABRHOA
Pabtishi GUisecsccualccucauss. 40202
Millenceet: sce sce s sce 2370-0s257-0
GoouWwinie i: eusse cece cone 4 0.210 1
(CloyAbatediolals 68h ee 4001 0
IMGINN She lie: cosceb eee cee co Oe 2240)
Gladstone, c: 2c2c e252 2.222220 20. 40
Barnhardt, ss -----------2--2 0 0 0 2
MoMillan-2b, -22-..-------.- 4002 0

tion will celebrate the 25th anniversary of
the founding of the society.

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is
to recognize military proficiency among
the cadet officers, to raise the standard of
military training in American schools and
colleges, and to promote a closer feeling
between the officers of the various units.
Membership in it is based upon purely
honorary grounds, only senior officers of
each school being eligible.

Student Body Votes
Letter to Anderson

At chapel exercises Wednesday morn-
ing the Student Body voted to send a
letter of thanks to Dr. W. M. “Bill” An-
derson, of Dallas, Texas, expressing their
appreciation of his service rendered here.

Besides his talks to different groups,
Dr. Anderson held personal interviews
with various students with especial re-
gard to choice of life work; and accord-
ing to several of them, his counsel has
been most invaluable.

Current opinion on the campus marks
Doctor Anderson as a wonderful, valuable
and helpful man, and he carries with him
the best wishes and hearty support of
the Student Body.

Doctor Anderson will be especially re-
membered for his virilence and versatility,
as well as the vivid analogies and illus-
trations he blended so well with his mes-

sages,

NEW MEN INITIATED

(Continued from page 1)
The following officers for the coming year

year were elected at the meeting: President,
S. S. Wiley; Vice-President, D. G. Steven-
son; Secretary and Trasurer, A. H. Whit-
head. Ned Heefner, President; W. C. Regin,
Vice-President, and J. V. D. Middleton, Sec-
retary-Treasurer, were the retiring officers.

After the initiation ceremony, a generous

feed was held in the Davidsonian office.
Kiigleti ccccccctacsiocssueccs 3 00 1 4
MIGNCErSON: 2asocecassaoucete 10000
MOtaS echosueese sone bwecs 30 0 527 9
*Batted for Barnhardt in 9th.
Score by innings:
Wigatlcy Tey kat te 000 301 002—6
Davidson -cwecccuncocoocsa 000 000 000—O

Summary: Errors—Foust, Coble, Barn-
hardt, McMillan, Kugler. Three base hit,
Bell, Two base hit, Foust. Sacrifices, Mills
Benton, inning, Miller, McInnis, Double
play, Gillespie to Reynolds to Allen, Stolen
bases, Cobb, Goodson. Left on base, Wake
Forest, 11; Davidson 7. Base on balls, off
Lanning 1; Kugler 4. Struck out, by Lan-
ning 8; Kugler 4, Hit by pitcher, by Lan-
ning, Gladstone 2; by Kugler, Gillespie.
Passed balls, Gladstone 2, Umpire, Bran-
don. Time—2:08.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

A Man of prayer.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

: /

“DRUGS”

CANDY

WHITE DRUG CO.

“PRESCRIPTIONS

q

“SODA”

FLOWERS

S E-N°]°O'R‘S
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices
Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
. 108 Watts
Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

