®

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

———

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SESSION 1929-30

A. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 9:00

Second Semester

P. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 2:00

May Freshman Sophomore Junior and Senior
; 4
M. R, 0, TC. 1 R. O. T. C.2 _R.O. T. C. 3, 4; Psychology 4 _ pe
2 = a Latin 1 Latin 2 F Economics 3, Geology 2, Education 4,
ee : Philosophy 2, Psychology 1 A, B
SAT, A. M. History 1 | History 1 History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
24 P. M. Biology 2 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
MON. A. M. : eae
26 P. M. English 1 English 2 English 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
A. M Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Economics 2
TUES ae _Education 2
27 P. M German A, 1 German 2 German 3, 4; Greek 3, 5, 6
. M. ; :
WED A. M Greek I Greek Business 3, Economics 1, Psychology 5
Mo. i i ————~1" Pub. Speak. 2, Astronomy, Geology
2B P, M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Phipseptiy 4
i i ics 2, 3, 4, 5; Philosophy 3,
a awe eee ik dee Pile Se. 2. Pub. Speak. 3; Sociology
; ; Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
FRI x ‘e Spanish At Spanish 2 Geology 3; Political Sc. 1; Education 3
M. i “Pub. Speak 1 Philosophy 1; Business 2; Polit. Sc. 4;
es arin A 1 Roki : Economics 4; Psychology 1C
A.M : TRE er “French 3, 4, 5, 6,7,8,9 nology S
SET 4 8 Math. 3, 4; Polit. Sc. 3; Psychology 2;
ai Rone saa hea pee Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4;
Applied Mathematics We

NOTE: (1) No Classes after 12:30 May 22nd. =
(2) Conflicts to be arranged by conference, the course of the class to
who have conflicts see Professors at once.

which you belong taking preference. All

Books We Have Read

Exploring the Bible—By Frank E.
Gaebelein. Harper & Brothers. New
York, 1929,

“This book is for youth,” says the au-
thor in his preface, “It should find its great-
est usefulness among those in the upper
grades of high school or in the first years
of college. The adolescent mind has a ten-
dency toward rationalization. Along with
marked idealistic impulses is a persistent
demand for proof, often expressed in an
attitude of doubt. Through their insistence
upon the principles of structure and their
emphasis upon design as seen in the Bible,
the following pages are planned to meet the
needs of the growing mind.’:

Writers like Mr. Gaebelein who realize
the modern demand for intellectual proof
and who know that the Bible can. be
defended rationally are prepared to meet the
onslaught of doubts and questions arising in
adolescent minds. On the other hand, re-
ligious writers who dogmatically affirm that
so-and-so is true, no matter what you think
about it, and that a text under discussion
can admit of no other possible interpreta-
tion, are likely to be associated with rad-
icals,

However, ‘Mr. Gaebelein’s treatment of
his vital subject is marked by sanity and
restraint; the style is positive but not dog-
matic.” The volume opens with a chapter
on ‘Knowing the Bible,” in which the au-
thor points out that many people have stud-
ied certain portions of the Bible in Sunday
School or have acquired a general knowl-
edge of it elsewhere, but that a systematic
and comprehensive knowledge is the excep-
tion rather than ‘the rule.

The origin of the Bible and the mean-
ing of inspiratién are dealt with under sep-
arate chapter heads. Mr. Gaebelein details
the dispensations and groups them as God’s
plan for the ages, while the covenants are
classed as God’s immutable promises. In
emphasizing the order and harmony of the
Bible, the author lists the symbolical mean-
ing of numerals throughout the Scriptures.
In the last chapter are given seven laws
of Scripture interpretation which are intend-
ed as guides in studying the Bible.

—Reviewed by H. W. Erwin.

She: “My brother has a lot of talent,
but he can’t seem to find himself,

He: “Why doesn’t he call himself and
see if he is home?”

Mootch: “Doc, why don’t you study
surgery? I’ve always planned to marry a
great surgeon.”

Doc: “Not for me. Too much inside
work.”

Honorary Fraternities

Bid Many New Members

Thirty Students Are Given Recogni-
tion by Seven Honorary Societies

Once again the laws of tradition at Da-
vidson College have been discarded in favor
of just recognition for attainment and
knowledge. The first occurred early this
year, when two of the seven co-eds at this
Presbyterian institution were among the 29
students making the honor roll.

The second took place this week, when
one of ‘these honor orll co-eds was elected
to an honorary fraternity, Miss Lucy Mar-
tin Currie having the distinction of. being
the first young lady to break through the
ranks. She was chosen a member of Eta
Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity.
Others selected for their meritorious work
in the classical languages were D. C. Hun-
ter, Clio, S. C.; G. P. Pardington, Scott-
dale, Ga.; A. R. Jackson, Williamsport, Pa. ;
W. B. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; R. P.
Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; and Spencer Mc-
Callie, Chattanooga, Tenn,

Five other honorary societies chose Da-
vidson students for membership this week.
They are as follows:

Mu Beta Psi (musical)—R. B. Orr, Ashe-
ville; E. B. Robinson, Jr., Talladega, Ala.,
and Hugh McMillan, Atlanta, Ga.

Alpha Phi Epsilon (forensic)—R. P. En-
loe, Buchanan, Ga.; J. S. W. Hartsell,
Bost’s Mills; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; P. S.
Knox, Jr., Thomson, Ga.; E. D. Kuyken-
dall, Jr.,. Greensboro, and William Rule, III,
Knoxville, Tenn. 4

Gamma Sigma Epsilon (chemical)—J. S.
Alden, Bluefield, W. Va.; H. A. Cox, Ha-
zelwood; A. L. DeCamp, Boontoon, N. J.;
W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs, and A. J.
Thompson, Badin.

Scabbard and Blade (military)—Thad
Brock, Barium Springs; A. R. Bird, Jr.,
Washington, D. C.; J. L. Brown, Hender-

You Can’t Stop
Se towing-car stops

Automobile Thieves,
alongside . .__- hoists
it away ... no clues

The only protec-

ANS A parked car...
front wheels . . hauls

tions oats ae

it coverin: opel ;
Rive: COLLI ON, and PROP-
ERTY DAMAGE. Let us provide

you with one. Then thieves cannot
steal your investment.

It's safer to have insurance—
and not need itl

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Stationery
Books
Magazines

Superior Soda Service
W.S. HENDERSON

Fountain Pens
F elt Goods
~~ Sundries

sonville; J. S. Meacham, Birmingham, Ala. ;
J. L. Smith, Dunn, and Dean Rusk, At-
lanta, Ga.

Sigma Pi Sigma (physics)—W. E. Mc-
Alpine, Clarkesville, Ga.; A. M. McLaugh-
lin, Jr., Chester, S. C, and E. S. Bettis,
Morristown, Tenn.

Delta Pi Kappa (journalistic)—E. G
Dwelle, Charlotte, N. (C.; W. S. Lea, Knox-
ville, Tenn.; D. G: Martin, Covington, Ga. ;
W. H. Matthews, Marlin, Texas.

Campus Novel Prize

Made Annual Award

Three Thousand Dollars is Offered
to Winner for Publication Rights

Editors of the College Humor—Double-
day, Doran Campus Prize Novel Contest
have recently announced their purpose of
making the Campus Novel Prize of $3,000
an annual event. Miss Betty White, a co-ed
at Northwestern University, was the first
student to win the contest. Her publication,
“I Lived This Story,” will appear in serial

form, beginning’ in the June number of
College Humor.

Rules for those who wish to compete are
rather detailed. However, the prize money
of $3,000.00 includes only the serial and
book rights of the novel. All motion pic-
ture and dramatic rights remain with the
author. Any students who are interested are
invited to write to the Campus Novel Con-
test, College Humor, 1050 North La Salle
Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Lucille: “Where do you think I'd be if
I had a million dollars, Joe?”
Joe: “On my honeymoon.”

S°E N° ORS
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices

Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST

The telephone looks ahead

Even as you are putting through your daily
telephone calls, groups of Bell Telephone ex-
perts are calculating your telephone needs for
five years, ten years, twenty years from now.

It is their work to discover from all avail-
able facts—not fancies—how each state, city
and community will probably grow. These
facts are reduced to forecast charts, precisely

| as an astronomer plots the course of a comet.

Thus central offices are planned years be-
fore they are actually built. Underground
and overhead lines are laid out to fit future
as well as present needs. Expansior. of ser-
vice is provided for.

Bell System planners virtually live in the
cities of the future. They plav a vital part in
providing the best possible telephone service
for the least possible cost.

BEGUN”
