N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 22, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For. a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must, be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

—
« WILSON McCUTCHAN .- Editor-in-Chief
MeO MCOAIs cicaccwuullass co subicaudcuas Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Bas Ge IW EULAIGEG naGbcd Saunt uducdbcdusweedcase Managing Editor
Ws SST ACs osc loca onc ...-.-.-Managing Editor
WP SOMEPRICLLN esc Succ co dasandbdcccobucwuce Managing Editor
W._H. MATTHEWS. Sports Editor
Vv. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN _ RAIES ne Feature Editor
BY RVALDERMAN.....00...2.-........... “Associate Editor
% 4 PISA GANUUS Sakis des sberotsuuioos acu Associate Editor
. C. RAGIN roy iate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
(GANNON cc cccudapustacose. Assistant Business Manager
» BOYD... Subscription Manager

Wi SiC AW Lg Voc sowe sauenuad sount ee CLe Gtus Slate ackeaeok President
D. O. STEPHENSON. .---Vice- President
A. H. WHITEHEAD. cretary-Treasurer

} G. BERRY J. G. DUNKLIN

. C. MATTHEWS C. W. F. SPENCER

J. R. SMITH W.. B. HANCOCK

R. F. NORTON J. M. BROWN

N. B. DICKS G. P. PARDINGTON

A. R. BIRD R. E, WITT

G. E, BAILEY R. H. ALDERMAN

E. O. GUERRANT J. E. BOYD

D. D. McBRYDE J. E. LAKE

GEORGE MILLER R. L. McCALLIE

C. F. MYERS W. F. MULLISS

S. P. PRESTON H. F. NICHOLS

B. B. SUGG NORMAN RAIES

W. B. WARD B: B. TAYLOR

MAY 22, 1930

The Davidsonian and student body
wishes to express their sincerest sym-
pathy to Bill Barineau in his recent be-
reavement.

SUGGESTIONS
For the last time this year The Davidsonian goes
to press. Next year we may be slightly changed,
but we will be here just the same. May everyone
have a happy vacation.

There will be many boys who will be missed
after they graduate, in fact all of them. Music will
have a gap in it when Paul Fry and Charlie Orr
are gone.

Noise in the dormitories lasts far, far into the
nights. Accept our congratulations if you don’t

have an examination the next day, but some one
else may have.

When Commander R. E. Byrd passed by the
Statue of Liberty a true Southerner will have re!
turned home. He has set a record for somebody
else to shoot at.

About two hundred Freshmen will become Soph-
omores in a few days. It will be a great feeling
next year, but don’t forget the first impressions of
Davidson; they are worth a:good deal.

Loafing during the summer may be pleasant,
but a little work can do considerable for dad’s

wallet. Two shoulder’s at the wheel push harder
than one.

A WORTHY GIFT

It is impossible to recall a class gift which has
not proved useful in the years after it was do-
nated. However, some of them are more ap-
plicable to the students than others. We believe
that the Senior Class of 1930 has made an
exceptionally appropriate choice..Good stages
furnished with the right kind of curtains are
few and far between, especially in colleges.

Fortunately, persons other than those directly
interested in stage work have seen the need
of additional draperies,in the new_auditorium.
The platform was somewhat bare, and, if the
remarks of those who have attempted it can
be relied upon, hard to decorate. And, there
are times when it must be decorated.

ind theatre it is possible to adopt a flowery
scenic effect which can be converted into the

more common settings ordinarily used, but for

a college auditorium that is daily employed for

chapel services, simplicity is a prime requisite.

A happy medium is sometimes difficult to

attain.

Therefore, although the valance adds to the
ornamental view in front of the curtain, we
wish to express our especial appreciation for
the draperies on the rear and sides of the stage.

Not only does it improve the general appear-

ance and utility, but it also does much to regu-

late the acoustics of both speaker and organ.
With the recent gift the platform furnishings

become entirely a-class affair. The Seniors did

well to complete the job started by the Class
of 1929, instead of insisting upon devising a

more original plan. Although a present of this

kind does have monumental value, yet its chief

purpose is to supply something which both the
institution and students can use daily.

BE PREPARED TO BACK THE COURT

No student can help but take heart at the
news that the newly appointed Court of Con-
trol is ready for action and has made full prep-
arations for the Freshman Class of next year.
We are heartily in favor of the policy of few
changes but strictest discipline.

Headed by Thad Brock, this body is com-
posed of men who appreciate the true value
of Davidson’s dearest traditions, and it under-
stands that Freshman regulation is the only
means through which these may be preserved.
Especially does it intend to assure united class
attendance at athletic contests. Of all rules and
regulations this is the one which was the most
frequently broken during the past year. In
fact it might be said to have been openly dis-
regarded. The school has been noted for its
fighting teams, but the spirit of the student
body has never been far behind. There are
few men who learn to give the best support if
they have not practised it in their Freshman
year.

There has also been a movement on the part
of the student body to “wink” at violations
of the rules laid down by the Court. We do not
see how any thinking student can overlook the
important. place which Freshman control plays
on the campus. Nor do we intend to argue the
issues of its necessity to the college and to class
unity; they are self-evident. More than once
in the course of nightly “promulgations of har-
mony” we have noticed that one or two Fresh-
men have hummed the last verse of “College
Ties.” They did not know the words,

To be successful the Court of Control must
be swift in execution and sure in justice. To
attain the latter it must have the co-operation
of every student, and the former can be accom-
plished only through combined support.

SENIORS—THEIR TRANSITION

As the year passes to its close we are forced
to realize that we now see many of our best
friends for perhaps the last time. At first we
experienced a sentiment of sorrow and loss, for
the faces and voices of the Class of ’30 have
filled a familiar place on the campus. After a
little more thinking we began to take courage.

All that commencement does is to change
Davidson students into loyal Davidson alumni,
and in doing this makes room for the students
who are to come. In reality, as the name sig-
nifies, commencement is the beginning, not the
end. Those ties, associations and impressions
formed during the past four years will become
reinforced with the lapse of time and will be
cemented together, —

To the Seniors we would say: While you
have been at Davidson you have formed an
opinion of the activities and position of alumni.
In two weeks you will have put your under-
graduate days behind you. You have often dis-
cussed the failings of alumni and their possi-
bilities for great service. Now it is your time
to act,

It is true that the public lays emphasis on
the scholastic and athletic reputation of a col-
lege; it is equally true that the demeanor of
the active student is closely watched. The grad-
uate stands alone. Everyone looks upon him
as the mature man; he can no longer excuse his
pranks as the exuberance of collegiate pep. He
is the finished product, and critics will be only

“too glad to pick flaws.

When the college attaches its name and seal
to a diploma it automatically gives the recip-
ient a boost in the business and professional
world. Most employers regard this certificate
as a recommendation rather than as a qualifica--
tion. They infer that the man who has had the
determination and stamina to stick through four
years of intensive work is, willing to apply him-
self whole-heartedly to the task that confronts
him. They will give him a trial. A diploma does
not mean that the holder will be placed on a
pinnacle of luxurious ease and will be permit-
ted to draw a salary without working for it.
It means that confidence may be placed in him.

For every seventy-five dollars ‘that a David-
son student puts into his education, the college
adds an additional twenty-five, in order that it
may supply the best possible education. No stu-
dent pays in full for the knowledge that he car-
ries away with him. When you Seniors have
attained positions of wealth and prominence,
as some of you will, you would do well to re-
member your Alma Mater in a more material
way than with kind regards. Especially can you
be of direct service in aiding Davidson to get
the finest type of manhood that can be gath-
ered from homes throughout the entire country.

In return for what it has done for you, Da-
vidson expects you to prove worthy. -The rec-
ords which have been registered by those who
have gone before make it easier for you. There
will be more graduating classes in the future,
and their members believe that you will keep

. the slate clean.

It is only because these things are impor-
tant that we dare repeat them. You have heard

|

DAVIDSON -- WEEK by WEEK

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

To the Seniors, we wish to express the sincere
sentiment of every man in Davidson College in
this last Davidsonian, by saying that we wish you
the best of luck in your future endeavors, whether
it be in graduate work, or in, beginning your
careers in business.

You are the center of deepest admiration by
your fellow students, almost to idolatry, because
you have just finished and conquered four years
of hard work. When you are giving your diplomas
at Commencement, it will mark the end of your
college life here, and silently acclaim you master
of your curriculum activities.

As a student you have learned to love Davidson
—But now that the bond is being partially severed,
you must make yourself a model alumnus—don’t
forget Davidson and Davidson won’t forget you.

Frank Brown, whose genuine sincerity has
won for him the hearty friendship of every
Davidson man, has been appointed to the col-
lege faculty for next year, in the capacity of
Biology assistant, Frank, who is undoubtedly
one of Davidson’s most popular students, is
enthusiastic about his new position, but hardly
as much as we who are so glad to see him
remain.

Another honor was recently bestowed on Dr.
Frazer Hood, when he’ was chosén on a commit-
tee of three, which includes President B. F. Finney
of Sewanee, and Dr. N. W. Walker, dean of the
School of Education, to make an expert’s survey
of St. Mary’s Junior College, of which institution
the Board of Trustees wish to make a four-year
college for women.

Travel abroad has not been completely con-
fined to our faculty. As far as could be ascer-
tained, twelve Davidson men have made trips
to European countries within the past few
years, not including graduates. The majority
included Paris and London in their journeys,
and many went to Scotland on family visits.
Nab Armfield, George Sherrod, Fred Poag,
Tom Bowles, Archie Cannon, Bob Rowland,
Charles and Anderson Little, Mac Manson,
John Stephens, Charlie Orr, and A. J. Thomp-
son are the Davidson men who have crossed
‘the “pond,” the latter two touring Europe with
an orchestra. :

Eight more are planning to go this summer.
Carol Pitts, Bill: Poe and Mutt Roddey, will
make an excursion together late in the sum-
mer. Fred Poag is expecting to make a second
trip, while Al Halverstadt and :Marmaduke
Norfleet are also planning to go. Don Mower
and Cal Kuykendall too, will go across in July.
The majority of these men are planning to in-
clude Oberammergau in their tours, where they
will see the famous Passion Play.

A most peculiar incident occurred in West dor-
mitory about two months ago. Bob Davis, Wallace
Tinsley and Bill Thomason were engaged in a so-
called “bull session” (Davidson’s favorite extra-
curricular sport) one afternoon, on the subject of
dirigibles. Bob and a fourth student in the room,
said that, in view of the fact they had never seen
a dirigible, it would be one of their greatest wishes
to get an opportunity to see one of the giant air-
ships. Immediately after this last remark had been
uttered, a deafening whirl of motors were heard
above them.

Everyone rushed out of the dormitory, where
they saw the gigantic Los Angeles dirigible,
America’s largest zeppelin and the second
largest in the world, directly over them. As
has been divulged since Commander Wiley of
the Los Angeles had made a special trip over
Davidson, in a tribute of friendship to his’ old
high school pal, Professor John P. Williams.

Marmaduke W. Norfleet has given Davidson and
himself nation-wide distinction in educational
circles. When Marmaduke entered Davidson three
years ago, he took the Stanford Revision test of
the Binet-Simon group of intelligence tests for
college freshmen, and made the highest score ever
recorded in a test of this nature. His score was
nearly perfect, making 216 of a possible 220 points.
So far as known, the record has never been broken.

Did You Know: Phil Menzies is wearing a
signet ring which bears the family coat-of-
arms, and which has been the family emblem
for nearly one thousand years. .. Bob Erckman
is the direct descendant of the first governor of
South Carolina. .. Wilson McCutchan was the
organizer of his high school paper, despite the

them many times in the past, and you will hear
them many more times in the next two weeks.
As an official farewell The Davidsonian extends
its best wishes to all those men who graduate.
It is our one sincere. wish and trusted hope
that they will never forget their Alma Mater;
Davidson will always cherish their: memory and
records.

ie

Beings as how exams are so close in the future
and. General Motors has gone down through two
points we will proceed to expound a literary dis-
course on famous animals. The most famous of
these birds and animals is the Hunkeydory bird
which flies and flees and other insects from cliff to
bluff crying in a low coloratura soprano voice cry-
ing, “Hunkydory, hunkydory,” when pleased, and
“Keerchoo, keerchoo,” when sneezed. This little bird
is very useful in the home as it will put. out the
cat, wind the clock, wash the dishes, mind the
baby, wash the car; and burn holes in the rugs
when smoking the long, black cigars for which it
is notorious. In the great outdoors it is also fa-
mous as a help in the great game of golf as it will
help lose golf balls, break nice new clubs, and
properly insult the caddies. If your local dealer
can’t supply you with one of these wonderful
household helps, write us and we will see to it
that you are stuck plenty for one. Don’t shout, I
can hear you perfectly.

The Wild Kazookus

The wild Kazookus is a small insect which in-
habits the lower third of Gaul and feeds, its young
by stealing empty milk bottles off its ‘neighbors’
doorsteps and painting them white. They then tell
the young Kazookasies that “There is breakfast
(dinner or supper, as the case may be),”’ and the
young ones immediately drain the empty contents
all out of the bottles. If there is a sufficient lack of
emptiness to increase their cute little appetites,
they proceed to protest by their wierd cries of
“More, more”; which, if heard in the middle of
the night, is very, very unusual, as the young Ka-
zookasies seldom get enough of nothing as to be
insufficient in the middle of the night; but—if the
young Kazookasies cry “More, more” at any other
time, the older Kazoéekasies exert all in their power
to find More. If they do find More, the young ones
are entirely pleased and go to sleep softly murmur-
ing “Beep, beep,” much after the fashion of an old
Ford with a new horn. On the other hand, if More
cannot be found, the little ones cry as an alternate
“More or Less, More or Less.” Then the elder
Kazookus institgates an extended search for Less,
and as Less is always willing to be done. by every
one, it is soon found to completely fulfill the old
adage, “There is no present like a new watch.”

The Curly Billiard e

The Curly Billard is a trite animal with several
peculiarities which distinguish it from the Pool
Table. The Billard wanders aimlessly through the
swamp crying in a dismal voice: “Rack, Rack,”
while the Pool table cries “Cue, Cue.” The Billiard
is lined inside and out with felt and its beautiful
ivory teeth convince you at once that it is the fifth
one in the tooth paste ads. A notable feature of
the Curly Billiard is its leather pockets. In these
pockets it keeps pocket editions of the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica. This rare specimen of fauna,
flora, or what have you? (Make mine a double
choc malt, Zenobia, and don’t spare the hosses)
was conducted to this land of the glee and home of
the crave via first class mail in a special eider-
down container lined with fur. What fur? Dunt
esk, remember the old maxim: you can’t drive a
nail with a sponge, no matter how hard you soak
it. Well, to make a long story more compact, it was
drug in at frightful expense by John Doe and his
only and favorite son and heir Vododie O. Doe.
This Curly Billiard was the inspiration for the
song “I Miscue.”

The Celestial Tripe-Dodger

The Tripe-dodger is a denizen of the deep, dark
tarns which were once so prevalent in this coun-
try before the war, suh. The tripe-dodger is a cute
lil’ trick with neat, though not gaudy plumage.
However, the head of this crittur is where its tail
ought to be, and its tail is where its head ought to
was. In other words, it can’t tell heads from tails,
The cause of the peculiar bodily conformation of
this lil’ bugger is that it doesn’t give a whoop and
holler where it’s going, but is no end interested as
to where it has been. Nerts!

fact that only 50 pupils attended, and as its
first editor-in-chief, secured a circulation of
300, and the paper is still prospering. . . Rosser
Elkins, who has been in three minor aeroplane
mishaps, is going into the air service at Kelly
Field in Texas this summer, something that is
really hard to do. Many college graduates have
been rejected. . . Frank Pilcher was elected
the most popular boy at a Young People’s Con-
ference in West Virginia two years ago, with
over 300 delegates in attendance. . . Bob Witt
has written a volume of poetry and short
stories. .. Heath Whittle has collected ten gold
and silver medals during his three years in
Varsity track competition, all won in big inter-
sectional meetings—and never ran a hurdle be-
fore he came to Davidson. .. DeWolfe Miller is.
a nephew of ‘the late author, Charles Egbert
Craddock. .
