THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

se VF,
wt y

pe Side Line Shots

At a Game Between Two
Great Quintets

That was undoubtedly the most heart-
breaking loss that a Wildcat quintet has
sustained in many a day, but it’s no dis-
grace to lose to a team as good as that
one presented by the Blue Devils Mon-
day.

As usual, Dame Luck played her part
in the fray and this time favored the
Duke five rather than the Wildcats.
Looked like we were due for one or two
breaks, though, with the odds heavy
against us to start with.

Guess it was too much, however, to ex-
pect us to nose out the Blue Devils again
after that unforgettable 13-12 defeat that
we handed them on the gridiron last Fall.

But the game wasn’t determined by
“breaks” alone, even though the loss can
be directly traced to a tough one against
the Cats. In Croson and Werber Duke
boasts two of the best cagers to be
found in the southland and they’re due
their share of credit.

Living up to the ancient tradition,
Monk’s men displayed all the fight that
could be asked of anyone, as well as a
brand of basketball that isn’t demon-
strated in every cage game.

“Sleepy” Godson proved a match for
Werber when it came to consistent as
well as flashy floorwork. The former had
just shot the basket that would probably
have made a different tale of the game
when he was called out of bounds and
the goal didn’t count.

The Blue Devils are now in undisputed
leadership, of the Big Five but we’ve got
another shot at them. This will be on their
home floor, however, and that makes the
odds a little heavier against the Wildcats.

The Varsity was certainly on the war-
path through Virginia. Three Old Do-
minion quints went down in decisive de-
feat on successive nights before the on-
slaught of Captain Johnston and his men.

The Kittens had a clean record spoiled
by .two close losses to the Roanoke and
V. P. I. first year men. They’re still un-
defeated in the state, though, and have a
mighty good chance at the championship.

Unless something happens in the mean-
time it’s going to be the last game of the
season before it can be determined who
will be high scorer. Pritchett and John-
ston are making a close race of it.

Elon and Erskine are bringing convinc- |

ing records with them when they come to
meet the Cats. The latter quint ranks
next to Furman in South Carolina and
should put up a strong opposition.

There won't be many more games on
the home floor and'so let’s be there back-
ing the cagers every time. Let ’em know
when they make their last trip through
the state that we're still behind them. .

V. P. I. DEFEATS

(Continued from page 1)

Raker, Davidson heavyweight, showed up
exceptionally well in his: match with Davis,
giant Poly captain, who has never. been de-
feated. In the 125 pound class Gorham put
his opponent , Graves, through a fast series
of twists and turns only to be finally thrown
by him. After being apparently outclassed
by Ellett, Warren slipped across a winning
hold to throw the 175 pounder of the Tech-
men. Both Conway and Christenbury had
no trouble in defeating. their opponents by
time advantages.

Varsity Meets Two
‘Dark Horses’ Next

Monk’s Cagers Prepare for Elon
and Erskine

The Davidson quintet faces two dark horse
fives when they meet Elon College on Sat-
urday night and Erskine College of South
Carolina on the Tuesday following. Both
games are to be played on the home floor.

The Elon team has been on a winning
spree lately and have a combination that will
bear watching. In the “Little Five” so far,
the Christians have won four games and
lost only one, that to High Point College
early in the season, However, not content
with that, on a recent northern trip they
have defeated such teams as V. P. I. and
Emory and Henry, Virginia rivals of the
Christians, with apparent ease. Caddell, for-
watd, and Briggs, guard, seem to be the
boys who will require the most watching.

On Tuesday night, the “Flying Fleet,”
from Erskine gives the Wildcats the last
home,. opposition before the start of their
North Carolina campaign when three “Big
Five’ teams are to be met on the same
trip. They have been burning up competi-
tion in the stand and rank next to the power-
ful Furman five in the state race. Reports
have it that they are anxious” to give the
Wildcats a taste of what they can expect
when the two teams meet in football next
fall for the first time in the history of the
two colleges.

’CATS IN FORM TO DOWN

THREE

V. M. I., Roanoke and V. P. I.
Defeated Successively

Displaying the best all-round form of the
season, the Davidson College Wildcats were
able to chalk up three decisive victories over
powerful Virginia teams in their invasion of
the Old Dominion last week. All of, the wins
were by top-heavy scores, the Wildcats lack-
ed only six points of doubling the scores of
their opponents for the entire tour.

The air-tight five-man defense displayed
by the Davidson five proved a puzzle to all
the teams. Not one of them could success-
fully and consistently pierce the barrier
erected by Monk’s men. The defense was
working better than at any time this year,
and when once the Davidson men got con-
trol of the ball, they carried it down the
floor fast. The combination of tight defense
and fast-breaking offense spelled defeat for
each of the foes.

Johnston, Rusk, Pritchett, “and Goodson,
were the big guns on the Davidson offense.
These four men accounted for 114 of the
122 points gotten by the ’Cats. Rusk reached
the form he displayed last season and ran
wild in all, the games to lead his teammates
in scoring for the trip. He rang up 34 points
in the three games, getting eleven points
against both. V. M. I. and Roanoke, and
raising his mark to an even dozen points in
the final contest with Virginia Poly. Good-

VIRGINIA QUINTETS

son added his share of the counters to the
total score, besides being one of@the main-
stays on the defense.

The Wildcats 6pened the trip in proper
manner by trouncing V. M. I. on the opening
night. The score was 35 to 27. Johnston,
Rusk, and Goodson each got eleven points
and accounted for 33 of their team’s points
between them. The victory of the Davidson
team was looked upon as a slight upset by
most of the sport scribes, who accorded them
only a chance of victory.

The next night, Roanoke College
added to the list of victims. The game was
more of a slaughter than anything else, Carl
Pritchett leading the scoring with Rusk fol-
of substitutes in the game and gave his first

lowing closely. Coach Monk used a number

was

stringers as much rest as possible. The subs
were unable to maintain the fast scoring
pace set by the regulars, but presented as
sturdy a defense, and the game ended with
the final count 49 to 16, favoring the Wild-
cats.

The trip was closed at Blacksburg with a
win over the V. P. TI. quintet. Rusk led in
the with twelve points, and was
closely followed by Johnston and Pritchett
with ten points each. The floor work of
Pritchett was especially good, and he was
characterized as the “classiest goal-shooter
to be seen on V. P. 1. court in quite a while.”

scoring

Varsity Scoring

Davidson 50, Catawba 26.
Davidson 33, Charlotte Y 18.
Davidson 29, Wofford 15.
Davidson 20, Furman 33.
Davidson 22, Carolina 20.
Davidson 39, Lenoir-Rhyne 25.
Davidson 38, Charlotte Y 39.
Davidson 33, Maryville 20.
Davidson 35, V. M. I. 27.

49, Roanoke 16.
Davidson 38, V. P. I. 20.

30, Duke 33.
Davidson 416, Opponents 292.

Davidson

Davidson

HOW THE SCORE

UGNNStON: —< Ss ccaccc cose ec bce ae 101
Rritonetes caucns co ocuLLaccose as 99
IMGnih coc seucce loots les cass eke 15
(obivs. | y.y pipe epee yey peepee ny 70
IRWGkiescesss oss Seo eccaee 76
IMOOre cls cieccc cee oe ees 11
Proton ccccccus coesecucsclcliess 15
INailtONiac occu stescsuc Ts SoeS Sees: 19
Mathisnses 2 oc cesose cee eeceos 5
MHOpArGG Cec  cksuMucionscucenawe 4

yet ee ee

CURSE You. we
THE RESISTANCE

“Marvin Murgatroyd, you fiend, I promised myself the
rare pleasure of doing you in with my two bare hands, and

“Choke away, Horace Gillingwater! Any throat protected
by the constant use of OLD GOLDS, the smoother and
better queen-leaf cigarette, is beyond the power of your
feeble strength! There’s not a cough in a carload!’’

FASTESF GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY. . .NOT A COUGH INA CARLOAD

ENGRAVED BY JOHN HELD JR

