6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

=

Mr. Frank W. Price
Will Visit Davidson

Former Davidson Student Will
Spend Four Days Among Stu-
dents on Local Campus

IS VERSATILE SPEAKER

Was Outstanding Student While in
College Here

For four days, beginning April 4, Rev.
Frank ‘W. Price will be a visitor to the
Davidson campus. Mr. Price, a Davidson
man, is a missionary to China whose support
has been aided by the Davidson Y. M. C. A.

Frank Price’s record as a student and
campus leader at Davidson is almost with-
out parallel. Among his many honors were
the presidencies of the senior class, the “Y,”
the Student Volunteer Association, and of
the North Carolina Intercollegiate Debators
Organization; he was also founder and first
Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, editor
of the annual, business manager of the col-
lege magazine, and an honor roll. student
whose average for his your years at David-
son was 97.56 per cent.

Upon leaving Davidson, Frank Price spent
three years in China assisting his parents in
their work as missionaries. He then returned
to the United States just in time to enter the
“Y” work in France during the world war.

The néxt three years of his life were spent
in further preparing himself for his life work.
He took his B.D, at Yale Divinity School
and his M.A. at Columbia and in 1923 he
sailed for China with his bride. His letters,
which have been received frequently here at
Davidson have been full of interest and
show an unselfish devotion to the work which
he has chosen.

Mr. Price has served as professor in both
the Nanking Theological Seminary and
Hangchow. When he was driven from his
work by a rebellion he spent the time in
Korea translating several books from Chinese
to English and from English to Chinese.

Practically every member of the student
body will have an opportunity to hear this
versatile speaker. He will speak at the
chapel exercises and at “Y” vespers as well
as to various classes and in personal confer-
ences. His general subject will be that of
missions today.

CONVERSE GLEE CLUB
(Continued from Page 1)

be a well rounded out one, and both the
Glee Club and the director, Glenn C. Stables,
are to be commended for an excellent per-
formance.

The program, with a few variations, fol-
lows:

The Green Cathedral—Carl Hahn.

Hear Thy Lover’s Cry—Thurlow Lieur-
ance.

A Birthday—Charles Manney.

Glee Club.

Selections by Miss Amelia Bruns.

Will 0’ the Wisp—Charles G. Spross.

Mighty Lak a Rose—Ethelbert Nevin.

Yesterday and Today—Charles G. Spross:

Glee Club.

La ci darem la manho—Mozart, Amelia
Bruns and Glenn C. Stables.

Time of Youth—G,. Donizetti.

Sleepy Hollow Tune—R. Kountz.

On Wings of Song—Mendelssohn,

Glee Club.

La Fille Aux Cheveux de Lin—Debussy,
(Transcription by Hartman).

La Plus que Lente—Debussy, (Transcrip-
tion by Roques), Mary Lou Kirby.

Blow, Blow, Thou Winter Wind—Richard
Kieserling, Amelia Bruns, Soloist.

Glee Club.

DAVIDSON MARKSMEN

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson

Russell _.-.49 48 39 44 180

Arlington _47 43 44 40 174

Brock _-..48 49 48 29 174

Graham __.48 45 37 42 172

Curdts ~...48 39 40 42 169
MOM levcowccuicespecuubcdsdeccues 869

On Thursday the team fired a shoulder-to-
shoulder match with the Gastonia Rifle Club
Team at Gastonia. This match was fired on
a 75 foot range instead of the 50 foot range
as is used here. In this contest Gastonia
fired a score of 897 to 836 for the. Davidson
Team.

Up to date the team has fired 33 corres-
pondence matches and has won 24 of them.
A score of 3653 was fired in last week’s
matches and while none of the school in this
match have been heard from, this score is
almost certain ‘to win the majority of the
matches. One of the matches fired last week
was a Freshman match with the University
of West Virginia. Other matthes were with
teams from U. of Porto Rico, U. of Wash-
ington, Norwich University. Rose Poly,
South Dakota Agriculture College, State
University of Iowa, U. of Oregon, North
Dakota Agriculture College, North Georgia
Agriculture College, and U. of Nebraska.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

(Continued from page 1)
versity of Richmond), Richmond, Virginia,
in November, 1901, by six members of an
organization called the “Saturday Night
Club.” There are sixty-two active chapters
of the fraternity at the present time. The
chapter at Davidson will be the Epsilon
Chapter of North Carolina, there being three
other chapters located at North Carolina
State College, Duke University, and the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. A chapter was
reinstated at the University of South Caro-
lina with in the past few months,

Two members of the Davidson College
faculty, Profs. W. L. Porter and J. T. Kim-
brough, Jr., are members of the Pyramid
Club. D. H. Howard, who was assistant
professor in Chemistry last year and is now
studying in Cornell University for his Mas-
tre’s Degreesin Chemistry, is also a member
of the Club. Prof. James Truesdale is a
member of the North Carolina Gamma
Chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon at Duke Uni-
versity.

CUMMINGS REVIEWS

(Continued from page 1)
ner. “Sorrow” is built upon an excellent

simile; but two or three phrases mar the
total effect of the poem. On the whole Mr.
Witt’s writings show distinct power and
promise. i

“For the Glory of the Lord?’ is a tragedy
after the Chaucerian definition—“the fall of
man of grete estat.’ The fall of the Hon.
(and colored) Dr. Lemuel Daniels into the
river while he was impressing his followers
with an apostolic power in walking on the
waters is the climax of a delightful fantasia.
The poem by W. Wharton and the play by
J. W. Williams are contributions which
merit fraise, for though not pretentious, they
are well done.

The above review was contributed to the
Davidsonian by Dr. W. P. Cummings.

| VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS

(Continued from Page 5)
replied that some of the pears had fallen
off and he was trying to: put them back on.

The alumni of the classes from about 1910

A Minister of the Gospel
SHOULD

Know how to win men, both by public sermons,
and through individual contacts.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond,

Virginia.

4

Final Freshman Scores

Freshmen 22, Charlotte Hi 18.
Freshmen 20, Charlotte Hi 9.
Freshmen 26, Steele Creek 22.
Freshmen 20, Belmont Abbey 14.
Freshmen 25, Grensboro Hi 21.
Freshmen 32, Wake Forest 14.
Fresh 35, Washington & Lee 23.
Freshmen 21, Roanoke 22.
Freshmen 21, V. M. I. 26.
Freshmen 18, Oak Ridge 32.
Freshmen 16, Belmont 32.
Freshmen 45, Wingate 19.
Freshmen 32, N. C. State 25.'
Freshmen 14, Duke 31.
Freshmen 19, Carolina 24.
Freshmen 34, Wingate 17.
Freshmen 49, Porter Military 29.
Freshmen 449, Opponents 378.

iG@hG6 coe esac CUS yA Ceiecuesuuue 137
INOSG?S sess lade AU EueEeeces 115
WMIBNSOR ons Success es eauceus 58
MOABOUY oe cc Ls gene 53
WHASHOR Sse ccs loleuelees cescus 21
IBGPHANG) casvodscceelerse eauaues 20
MOCHE Rete so cot eco oes eee 17
ISRUMHAM 2250s ecuefese ses Sack 13
OUCH OS oss ee eee 9
it 152 P Sone eeceieneey papgeieye potter prety etree 4
Creech) s2scc00 ee eee aie 2

versally agreed that these are the things
that are distinctively Davidson.

We were frequently asked whether David-
son expects, to remain a college of approxi-
mately the same size we are now, or whether
it is the plan of the college to grow larger.
All ‘alumni were interested in some. state-
ment with reference to the growth of the
physical plant and material resources of the
college.

We tried to point out some of the various
ways in which an alumnus can best serve his
college, one of which was to put us in touch
with persons of means who might be induced
to make contributions to the college, either as
gifts at this time, or by annuities on which
the college would pay a fixed sum semi-an-

ually during the life of the donor; or by
including Davidson in their wills. We learned

of persons, of whom we did not know before,
who have Davidson in their wills for sub-
stantial sums. A trust company has just
written to ask for the corporate name of
the college, stating that an alumnus has
requested them to prepare his will and in-
clude a. sum for Davidson.

The alumni seemed unanimous in their
opinions that an obligation rested on them
to seek out for Davidson the best graduates
of the high schools in their communities.
They seemed’ to feel that Davidson ought to
have the best equipped students, physically,
mentally and morally,

to 1915 were concerned as to whether or not

the scholastic standards of the college were
being upheld and how Davidson compares
in this respect with other colleges. They
wanted to know about the working of the
honor system and the upholding of campus
ideals and traditions, It seemed to be uni-

Ss B'N‘'I’O°R:S
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN.
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices

Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Typing by wire—an adventure

in Communication

The telephone typewriter, a new Bell!
System service, has commercial possi-
bilities as yet barely realized.
Forexample,a business housecan type-
write a message over telephone wires,
and this is retyped instantaneously and
simultaneously in any number of branch
offices. The advantage is obvious — in

BELL SYSTEM

n

knitting together far-flung organizations
and in quickening the pace of business.

Here is still another extension of
telephone service. which has already
proved its value. The telephone type-
writer promises even greater things as
industry discovers new uses for this in-
strument of convenient communication.

A wation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST

BEGUN”
