THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1930

PARDINGTON WINS Play by Play Report of

| D.C.-V.P.I. Game Given

First Quarter
Hooper of V. P. I. kicked off to King,

(Continued from page 1)
Grace Cullum, sister of, Prof. Ernest J.
Cullum, head of the Music Department at |
Davidson College, had won the Atwater Kent ;
Audition in New Hampshire, and would | who returned to V. P. I.’s 43-yard line. Mc-
compete with others from her district in| Call and Brohard got two, then Brock passed
New York next November, She is a lyric | to McCall for a first down on the 30-yard
soprano singer. |line. Brohard made another first on the 17.
After a pass and a run had failed to make
the required distance, Huntley intercepted
Fraley’s pass on the 10-yard line. V. P. I’s
(Continued from page 1) | ball.

Davidson Clan of Highlanders had on the |
clan escutcheon the figure of a wildcat, and |
underneath the legend, “Touch not the Cat, l downed on Vi Ble 40-yard tine,
but the Glove.” “These Highlanders Nabe Brohard and McCall made it first on the
comparable to fighting wildeats. Small MA | 37-yard line. Two passes and a line play
der that to so fight is traditional with Da- failed and Brock punted to Hardwick on
Vieeew ey ue Comsided eg: | the eight-yard line, who fumbled but recov-

“It is traditional for Davidson men to |¢red. Hooper kicked on the second down,
hold all they have for service,” he contin- | the ball bounding over McCall’s head and
ued. “Does not this traditional conduct have | being downed on Davidson's 28-yard fine.
its beginning in the fact that the college holds | Brock kicked back, and when Hardwick
what she has for service, having never lost | fumbled, Brown recovered on V. P. I.’s 42-
a dollar of endowment?” “Another reasoa | yard line. Two plays by McCall and Fraley
this is true,” Dr. Richards remarked hu- | ™ade nine yards, then Brohard made a first
morously, “probably lies in the fact that down. A pass and a line play failed, then
Davidson was founded by the Scotch-Irish, Fraley passed 31 yards to King, who went
who kept the Sabbath, and everything else Over for a touchdown standing up. Point

FACULTY MEMBERS SPEAK

Two life plays gained four yards, then

Hardwick kicked to McCall, who was

they could get their hands on.”

The speaker said that th eold Chambers
Building was redolent of tradition, and that,
from now on, even the building itself will
be only a tradition. He added that it must
never be the tradition of the college that
she measure up to the highest standards of |
learning and culture as may be set by edu-
cational authorities. He closed by asserting
that Davidson’s great tradition is not only |
turning out educated men, but turning out
educated men who are Christ-like in principle
and conduct.

Co-operation Urged |

Captain N. G. Pritchett, who came to Da- |
vidson several years ago, told of his happy
experiences and contacts with Davidson
alumni, and commended them for their spirit |
of co-operation. He then asked for further |
co-operation, by calling for suggestions. Cap-
tain Pritchett also spoke of the considera-
tion that will always be given students, and
promised, whenever posible, five football
games will be scheduled to take place at
Davidson.

JUNIOR CLASS WINS STUNT

(Continued from page 1)
The last stunt on the program was pre- |
sented by the Juniors. This was awarded
first prize by the judges. The play, “Who
Killed Ann McNann?” was a parody on the
show, “Animal Crackers.” The detective
from Scotland Yard, Horace Erwin, was
an excellent imitation of Groucho Marx and
he deserves much credit. The story opens
with Ann McNann, Grier Martin, being shot
by some person in the story. The detective |
accused everyone on the stage of killing |
Ann, but finally he found the guilty party
in the Mystery Man, played by Sam Wiley.
The other players in this stunt were: Bob
Roland, who was the Chinaman; Bill Frank-
lin, who took the part of Watson; Charlie
Spencer, the butcher; the girl was George
O’Hanlon, and Bob Orr was the bugler for
the act.

The Sunnyland Serenaders, led by Jack
Ramseur, concluded the program with sev-
eral popular selections of music. They are
well organized and seem to be as good as
they were last year. The audience seemed
to enjoy this part of the program, the amount
of applause being indicative of its pleasure.

Between the different stunts, the Glee Club
Quartet sang several selections. The mem-
bers of the quartet are Jack Ramseur, Bill
Rule, Gene DuBose, and Koonts.

The 165th anniversary of the founding of
the School of Medicine of the University |
of Pennsylvania—the oldest on the conti-
nent—is being celebrated this year.

Oberlin College students of Zoology were
treated recently to the rare sight of fresh
water jellyfish, discovered by Dr. R. A.
Budington, head of the department, in the
Vermilion River, west of here. Dr. Buding-
ton told his classes this was the sixth time
in zoological history that jellyfish, regularly
found in salt water, had been found inland.

Vachel Lindsay, well-known poet, wrote
and recited a poem especially for the occa-
sion of the installation of Dr. Kenneth Irving
Brown, 34, as president of Hiram College.
Dr. Brown: is next to the youngest college
president in the world.

Tests made at the New Jersey College
for Women indicated that sophomores are
less liable to: believe untruths than juniors

was missed by Brock. V. P. I., 0; David-

}son 6,

Brock kicked off, and the ball was run
back to the 31-yard line. Hall failed to gain
on two plays and Howard got four yards
as the quarter ended. Score: Davidson 6;

1V. P.T. 0.

Second Quarter
Hooper kicked to Davidson’s 15-yard line
and McCall ran it. back to the 28-yard line.
Davidson sub. Wagner for Raker. King
makes first down on Davidson’s 43-yard line.
Brohard made three and Fraley made 14

lon end runs, having ball on V. P. I’s 40-

yard line. V. P. I. sub., Grimes for Hite.
Davidson on three attempts failed to gain
and Brock kicked to V. P. I.’s five-yard
line. Hooper made six yards, Hall made
one; Hooper kicked to McCall on David-
son's 39-yard line. McCall and Brohard
failed to gain. Brock kicked to Hall when
on V. P. I.’s 20-yard line, who returned 11
yards. Two line plays and a pass failed to
gain. Gardner blocked Hooper’s punt, and
Wagner recovered for Davidson on V. P.
I’s 23-yard line. McCall and King made
first down on V, P. I’s 13-yard line. After
three plays had been smeared, Hooper inter-
cepted Fraley’s pass and reached his own
15-yard line. Hall made first down on V.
P. I.’s 20-yard line. The half ended with
the ball in V. P. I.’s possession and 13 yards
to go for first down.

Third Quarter

V. P. I.’s line-up, same as at half, Brock
kicked off to Hooper on V. P. I.’s nine-yard
line and it was returned to the 32-yard
line. Hall made a first down on V. P. I.’s
42-yard line. After two losses Hall passes
to McIntyre who was downed on Davidson’s
30-yard line. Howard made it first down.
Davidson sub., Mathis for Parker, Hooper
and Howard make first down on Davidson’s
10-yard line, Hall-and Hooper bring ball to
six-yard line. Hooper makes three, and Hall
makes three and touchdown, Hooper's place-
ment was blocked. Score: V. P. I., 6; Da-
vidson, 6.

Hooper kicked off to McCall, who ran
the ball back 29 yards to Davidson's 44-
yard line. On a fake, McCall carried: the
ball to V. P. I’s 23-yard line. After two
plays had failed, Fraley passed to King for
a touchdown. Brock’s placement was good.
Score: V. P. I., 6; Davidson, 13.

Brock kicked off over goal line. Howard

Stellar Halfback

e Heck BACK

‘Dow KiNG

King, Who Scored Two Touch-
downs Against V. P. I.

and Hooper made it first down on the
Cadets’ 36-yard line. Davidson sub., Raker
for Wagner. V. P. I. failed to gain. Hooper
kicked out of bounds, on Davidson’s 31-yard
line. Davidson failed to gain and Brock
kicked to Hall, who was downed on his own
27-yard line. V. P. I. failed to gain as the
quarter ended.

Fourth Quarter

Hooper kicked off and McCall, after re-
ceiving, ran out of bounds. on his°own 32-
yard line. Brohard and Fraley made it first
down on Davidson’s 49-yard line. Fraley
made four yards but Grimes blocked Brock’s
punt, the ball being recovered by Brock on
his own 15-yard line. Brock kicked>to Da-
vidson’s 49-yard line. Howard and Hooper
made it a first on Davidson’s 37-yard line.
Howard and Hooper were constant gainers.
V. P. I. was penalized 15 yards for illegal
use of hands, ball on V. P. I.’s 49-yard line.
After two plays had failed, Hall passed to
Spear for touchdown. Hooper’s placement
was good. Score: V. P. I., 13; Davidson, 13.

Swart kicked over the goal line. McCall
made five yards. Brock kicked on second
down to his own 45-yard line. Davidson
was penalized 15 yards for holding. First
down on Davidson’s 27-yard line. Owens
made another first down on Davidson's 15-
yard line. Davidson sub., McQueen for Bro-
hard. Owens and Hooper carried ball to
six-yard line. Davidson penalized five yards
for excessive time out. This placed the ball
on Davidson’s one-yard line. After the Wild-
cats had held for three downs, Owens went
over for the score. Hooper’s placement was
good. V. P. I., 20; Davidson, 13.

Davidson sub., Mills for King. Swart
kicked off to Pierce on Davidson’s 42-yard
line. A pass, Mills to McCall, brought the
ball to V. P. I.’s 36-yard line. Mills and

McCall took it to the 20-yard line. The

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAKAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson

Theatre

are.

WOOPEE
EDDIE CANTOR

Monday and Tuesday

HER WEDDING NIGHT
Thursday and Friday

SCOTLAND YARD

Saturday

"CATS MEET V. M. I.
(Continued from page 1)
climb. V. M. I. also annexed her second
game of the season against St. Johns from
Washington, 6-0.

Citadel ended the Cadets’ winning streak
in the third game by lucking out a meager
victory by a one-point margin in the last
two thinutes of play, when Pop Wilson,
Bulldog quarter, flung a pass to Jennings,
who crossed the goal line untouched, and
then booted the needed point for a 7-6 vic-
tory. This is the only game that can give
any dope on the comparative ranking of
the two teams. V. M. I. outplayed the South
Carolina Cadets for three periods and then
let up in the final period to let the ever-
fighting Bulldogs win out. Davidson defeat-
ed Citadel 6-0, but it was clear that the
Wildcats completely outclassed Citadel on
that afternoon. One team lost by one point,
the other won by six points, but the showing
of both teams were almost on a par with
Davidson having a slight edge.

The Flying Squadron then took on the
Virginia Cavaliers before a home-coming
crowd in Lexington. Again the Cadets out-
played their foe, but were defeated by the
score of 13-0. According to press dispatches,
the Flying Squadron outgained the Cavaliers
two to one, but were unable to cash in on
their chances which is probably due to their
lack of experience. Virginia took advantage
of a good break in the third quarter when
they recovered a fumble on the 15-yard line
and then Sipply crashed over center for the
first tally. In the last quarter Bill Thomas
punted 70 yards to put V. .M. I. inthe hole,
and after the Cadets had punted out on their
own 29-yard line, Thomas carried the ball
five out of six times to push over another
marker. V. M. I. made two serious bids to
score, one drive lasting to the one-yard line.
Led by Perry Berger, the Old Liners of
Maryland flashed a running and passing at-
tack in the first half of the Cadets’ last
game to triumph, 20-0. In the last half, the
game became tighter as V. M. I. fought
Maryland to a standstill and threatened se-
riously to score in the final period after ad-
vancing the ball on a strong passing attack.
No matter who is doped to win or who
enters the game as favorites, this game is
going to be a toss-up, because V. M. I. has
been improving with every game and as the
under-dogs they will put up their usual fight,
which will be aggravated a little more this
year. With Captain Roy Dunn, the back-
field battering ram, leading the Flying Squad-
ron, a good offense ought to have been
formed, and with a first-rate Frosh team
coming up, Bill Raftery should have some
‘reserve power, but sixteen veterans are
missing and these places are impossible to
fill with men as good as the ones going out.

The Cadets lined up against Virginia as
follows: Left end, Gill; left tackle, Kaylor;
Jeft guard, Rochelle; center, Shell; right
guard, Marklis; right tackle, Ford; right
end, Gregory; quarterback, Laughorn; left
half, Wright; right half, Travers, fullback,
Dunn, captain. ‘

Cadets were penalized 15 yards for rough-
ness. McQueen went through the line five
yards for touchdown. Brock’s placement
failed. Score: V. P. I., 20; Davidson, 19,

Game ended soon after with ball on Da-
vidson’s eight-yard line. Final score: V. P. I.,
20; Davidson, 19.

TWELVE TRY FOR RHODES

(Continued from page 1)
and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon so-
cial fraternity, will represent the State of
Tennessee.

The alumni of Davidson who were ap-
pointed were: Zeb Long, W. B. McGuire,
Frank R. Brown, ‘Munroe Gilmour, Tom E.
Hill. The representatives of North Carolina
are Long, McGuire and Brown, all of the
class of 1930. Long is a teacher at the Vir-
ginia Episcopal School at Lynchburg. Mc-
Guire. is a student at the Duke University
Law School. Brown is an assistant professor
of biology at Davidson. Munroe Gilmour
and Tom E. Hill, both of the State of Vir-
ginia and at present students at Union Theo-
logical Seminary at Richmond, will repre~
sent the State of Virginia.

Three hundred and seventy-eight students
at the New Jersey College for Women who
worked during the past summer, earned a
total of $44,500. The average length of em-
ployment was eight and & half. weeks.

1910 STATE CHAMPIONS

(Continued from page 4)

Attending the reunion were Floyd M.
Simmons, of Charlotte, coach; J. Roy Bar-
ron, ’11, Charlotte, manager; Dr. DeWitt
Kluttz, 711, Washington, N. C., captain; B.
T. Neal, ’12, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J. T. Pharr,
12, Cass, W. Va.; Rev. J* R. Phipps, 13,
Pollocksville; E. L..Booe, °12, Kennedy,
Texas; Lunsford Richardson, ’14, Greens-
boro; Rev. Smiley Williams, ’14, Welch, W.
Va.; Rev. W. A. Nicholson, 712, Pineville ;
W. M. Shaw, '12, Fayetteville; J. C. Cashion,
14, Huntersville; R. C. Hamer, 712, East-
over, S. C.; S. F. Erwin, Jr., 11, Florence,
S. C.; Rev. Eugene Alexander, ’12, Man-
chester ; D. A. McQueen, 713, Jacksonville,
Fla.; E. H. Graham, ’13, Goldsboro; J. Max
Hendrix, ’14, Greensboro; Dr. C. S. Mc-
Cants, 712, Winnsboro, S. C.; Quay Willi-
ford, ’12, Gastonia; Dr. D. A. Bigger, 713,
Rock Hill, S. C., and Revi W. D. Wolfe,
‘11, Tellico Plains, Tenn.

MAY—

a Fire In-
surance
policy is a
good in-
vestment.
If fire

wes comes, you
r 4 5) willbe

° romptly
repaid for your loss. It it does not
come, you have “peace of mind’”—
that feeling of security from loss
by fire.

Come our way and get a Fire
Insurance policy that is correctly
written as to coverage and
amount. So that, come what may,
you'll be properly and fully pro-
tected.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

COME WHAT

iD

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. .
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

ne

ta

FURNISHINGS

Friendly Five Shoes

os:

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206

CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN

ta
CLOTHING

John Ward

=

