N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

APRIL 24, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
aspate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the |

anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

—

J. WILSON McCUTCHAN ......-..-.---._-.- Editor-in-Chief
k Hi MOGA lL wisvar seas noilcicesalocuice Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

iw . DWELLE ........... -----------..Managing Editor
yee: HVAC ipuivscsutescecucseoguuualcs --Managing Editor
We ot atatthen Ee OPT mete pep ee --Managing Editor
Me hayeyty Rota rn enna enn ne nen ene n eee Athletic Editor

ees Saree MAN. ----Associate Editor
vy CG RAGIN ee ssociate Editor

Kathevaue --------Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

1: a GANNON «so2235 eee Assistant Business Manager
rane yeas w+ -0-+---------~---------Subscription Manager
+ ii COMA Freer en ewe een eee eee ee enn eee, Solicitor
. M. Nigucucatashesasuncns solutes Coste mea Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON --Solicitor
BO RORE ~Beilciter
J. L. SEVIER___- a Ht

--Solicitor

Si Si cWIGB Yeu jc dees cer sus esi
D. G, STEPHENSON] 222772227 cieeaasViterect ident
A. H. WHITEHEAD... ___________- 7" _Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY J. G. DUNKLIN
J. C. MATTHEWS C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R, SMITH W. B. HANCOCK
R. F. NORTON J. M. BROWN
N. B. DICKS G. P, PARDINGTON
A. R. BIRD R. E. WITT
G. E, BAILEY R. H. ALDERMAN
E, O. GUERRANT J. E. BOYD
D. D. McBRYDE J. E. LAKE
GEORGE MILLER R. L. McCALLIE
C. F. MYERS W. F. MULLISS
S. P. PRESTON H. F. NICHOLS
B. B. SUGG NORMAN RAIES
W. B. WARD B. B. TAYLOR

APRIL 24, 1930
=———————————SWMm[——_———
SUGGESTIONS

Tennis teams have always been above the aver-
age at Davidson. This year, for the ‘first time, a
six-man team is being used in this active sport.

It wouldn’t hurt students to give a little more
support to the Red and Black baseball team. Surely
those who play campus football and indoor base-
ball could wait until the last man is out before
leaving the bleachers.

Everybody can show their confidence in the new
“Y” cabinet. by being regular at Sunday night
vespers,

Buckle down to the textbooks a little harder for
the next few weeks. It won't last for long, and the
folks back home are counting on you.

Don’t forget those inspiring life service talks by
Doctor Anderson. Think about them and act ac-
cordingly.

There is a track meet with Wake F orest, Satur-
day. The boys are setting records, and the state
contest comes on May 2. This will be the last
chance to see a good many of the boys in action.

How many students have heard a varsity debate
this year? Davidson meets Wake Forest in States-
ville, Saturday night.

, AS REGARDS POLICY

There will doubtless be a natural curiosity
aroused in the minds of readers as the new
staff assumes active control of The David-
sonian. According to the custom adopted in
former years there will be no apparent
change in the style or makeup of the paper
itself. The same comment is true in regard
to the general editorial policy.

However, the staff wishes to declare it-
self, at this time, in favor of these move-
ments which it believes to be representative
of the student body. Personal opinion must
occasionally assert itself, but the new staff
will do everything in its power to overcome
these sentiments and assertions. That stand
which is taken by the majority of the read-
‘ers and subscribers to The Davidsonian will
always be regarded as paramount to any
other.

As a whole, the new members of the staff
feel that trust has been placed in them. As a
body they will strive to be worthy of this

‘confidence, Any college paper, and The Dav-.

idsonian in particular, is the common serv-
ant of the student body; it is not to be used
as a weapon. Following past customs con-
structive discussion will find its place, but
there will be no space free for fanatical rail-
_ings. The staff’s primary intention is to pro-
. vide a clean, newsy, and progressive David-
sonian for-Davidson.

CAMPER O’NEAL

Along with the announcement that Carl
Pritchett has been selected as Secretary of
the Young Men’s Christian Association
comesthe realization that Camper O’Neal is
leaving. It will be a sad departure for David-
son.

During his two years in the above. men-
tioned capacity, O’Neal has devoted his full
time to the development of better social and
moral contacts. Everyone who ha’consulted
with him has found him ready to sacrifice
himself in their behalf. He has proved him-
self to be not only an able secretary, but
also a sincere friend of everybody with
whom he has come in contact.

Particularly able speakers have been pro-
cured for vesper and evangelical services ;
the moral tone of campus life has been lifted.
Nor has O’Neal shown himself negligent in
fecreational and social affairs. The “play”
room of the “Y” building has been remodeled
and refurnished. Several new games have
been introduced, and students spend much
more of their leisure time there than they
formerly did, The addition of a radio to the
reading room has increased its popularity.

Not least important of the activities pro-
moted by Camper was the successful house-
party sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. The
establishment of the Social Center in Eu
Hall also marked another progressive move.
Formerly a student, now an alumnus, O’Neal
has become an integral part of David-
son College in its most personal phase. We
wish him every success in his pursuit of the
real thing's of life. He has been the first man
we see in the fall, and the last one we see
in the spring; he will not be forgotten.

SHOW YOUR LOYALTY

If the proposed student body banquet
next week receives the support it deserves
from every man at Davidson, we believe it
will long be remembered as a monumental
occasion for the college and as a significant
testimony to the reality of the spirit that is
here. The chances are that future classes
will want to follow the precedent being set
at this time, ushering in the new student
regime with fitting ceremonies in which the
entire personnel of the student body can
take’ part. Such is the hope of this year’s
graduating class, for they believe that an
annual practice of this sort can come to
mean much in the life and work of the in-
stitution.

Some years ago, the Davidson students
decided that it would not be amiss to get
together for a restatement of the principles
which underlie and motivate the spirit of
Davidson, thereby providing an occasion
upon which the loyalty and devotion of stu-
dents to the college might be affirmed and
pledged for the coming year. The mass
meeting was planned in the interests of a
“Bigger and Better Davidson,” that phrase
furnishing the inspiration for program and
fellowship which followed.: Practically ev-
ery man on the campus turned out fot the
big celebration, and the result was ‘atl‘that
could have been desired. The new student
government was given a send-off with the
assurance that full support was being of-
fered them. The Honor System was brought
into the spotlight, its vital role in the suc-
cess of the college being emphasized, and
confidence expressed that during the year
ahead, Davidson men would come to guard
it more carefully than ever before. Many
men saw Davidson in a light which was dif-
ferent from old conceptions. Their deter-
mination to be better college men was
strengthened.

The Senior Class hopes to create a finer
devotion for his college in the heart of
every one of the men who make up the stu-
dent body, an ideal than which there is more
more worthy, than which none may be more
productive of lasting good. It becomes the
privilege of a school like this to promote

student relations in a peculiarly personal .

way. Now the effort is being made to bring
the college itself into a fellowship’ just as
close and binding as that which exists be-
tween the men in the dormitories. It seems
right to suppose that such a condition will
be desirable to the students, and so we are
asking them to enter into the project with
all-the love they bear their Alma Mater.
Here is the chance to do a great service with
little inconvenience to self.

The possibilities of loyalty can never be
over-estimated. Davidson we have come to
know as an object commanding the highest
degree of that wonderful quality, and every
man who wants to make her future bright
will not pass up an opportunity to do his bit.
From this day on then—A Bigger and Bet-

ter Davidson!
Z.V. LONG, JR. |

DAVIDSON-- WEEK by WEEK

By-Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Who's Who in America, probably the world’s

most celebrated compilation of brief biographies

|

of prominent men and women, lists five Davidson |
| And so on.

professors in its contents, or about ten per cent
of the faculty.

The standard of admission into Who’s Who is
divided into two eligible classes. The first consists
of persons who have attained special prominence
in creditable lines of effort making them subjects
of extreme interest and discussion in the United
States. The second class includes those who are
arbitrarily chosen on account of their position in

the world—civil, military, naval, religious or edu- »

cational. Its compilers emphasize the fact that not
one sketch is paid for, this being against their prin-
ciples of publication.

Drs. Walter L. Lingle, H. B. Arbuckle, Frazer
Hood, Scott Cary Lyon, and J. M. MacConnell, are
Davidson’s contributions to this well known col-
lection. Although the biography of each man is
very brief, space forbids the enumeration of the
honors which each of the faculty members in this
book, have attained. But, it must be said that each
man has been listed as an eminent educator, with
numerous achievements,

Although there has been published much
comment about Dr. W. M. Anderson, powerful
and inspiring are the only two words which
could justly describe the eloquence of the
speaker chosen by the Y. M. C. A., to conduct
the spring services. The “Y” Cabinet is to be
highly commended for its choice of this man,
whose masterful speaking can only be ex-
plained in superlatives. Doctor Anderson spoke
seven times to Davidson students as a group,
each message striking squarely in the heart of
each listener, and after he had made his last
talk, everyone was wishing that he was just
starting his services. In appreciation of his
work, the student body at the conclusion of his
last sermon, paid him a splendid tribute when
every man went forward in response to his plea
for reconsecration. Last fall, Dr. Sam. Glasgow
who held the first of these meetings, was also
splendidly received by the student body. How
fortunate we are to be able to procure such
men to give us these wonderful messages!‘

The Davidson student body missed a rare treat
when the majority failed to attend the play given
by the Red and Black Masquers. The pilot was fine,
but the splendid acting of the characters in the
play was the feature of the evening. Stewart
Meacham, John Preston, Duncan Calder, Horace
Erwin, and Gaither Sanford all had important
roles and played them nearly to perfection, and
Susan Moffett, having the only part offered a
young lady, was a real star as the heroine. The
play was given at Queens College Tuesday night
before the student body.

Perhaps future plays given by the college dra-
matic club, will draw larger crowds, if only those
who missed this one, could appreciate it as much
as the audience which was in attendance.

Camper O'Neal, our popular “Y” secretary,
will be sorely missed by the student body,
when the next term begins, and Camper is
absent. After a splendid ‘six-year record, both
as a student and as the Y. M. C. A. secretary,
Camper has decided to take graduate work at
Columbia where he will make a deeper study
of his chosen profession, Personal Work. Per-
haps no one is more qualified for this task than
he, which is evidenced by his winning person-
ality and unquestionable character. One inter-
view with him is proof enough of his sincere
influence. To crown the climax of the whole
matter, students are rejoicing that an able man
has been chosen to succeed the outgoing secre-
tary, Carl Pritchett, who hardly needs a
eulogy. :

Sam Coker has a real mark to shoot at if he
wishes to emulate his well known father, David
R. Coker. Mr. Coker, who was the chief speaker
before the North Carolina Conference for Social
Service’ in Charlotte last week, is considered by
such experts as Hugh McCrae, Carl Vrooman and
Prof. William E. Dodd as the most scientific and
farmer in America. He was recently referred to
by Governor Gardner as having done more for the
science of farming than “any other man, living or
dead.” He is regarded as the greatest hope of a
way out for the stricken agricultural south. Mr.
Coker's father was the founder of Coker College,.a
growing women’s school in South Carolina.

It is a tragedy that Johnny Moore did not
get to attend Davidson when he was a fresh-
man. The little Rock Hill boy who entered as a
Junior last year, was the outstanding star in
three major sports at Presbyterian Colege as
well as one of the best athletes in South Caro-
lina, before he entered Davidson. Of course, he
is unable to compete in any varsity sport here
because of ineligibility, which hurts Johnny as
much as it does the student body. Although he

We will begin the Saturday Silver Service with
a musical number. Miss Stienblitz will perform on
her new organdie: “As you rip, so shall you sew.”

“Are you fond of dogs?” Plenty of mustard,
please. (Don’t you just adore seeing cowboys break
in a new mustard, Gladys?)

“Why, I have had collies all my life.” You should
see a doctor; it has all the symptoms of pomerania.
Stick out your tongue and say “Eenie, meenie,
minie, moe.” Yah, Yah, right back at ya.

I see where they are waging a campaign against
malaria. It looks like they would leave those Mala-
rians alone, doesn’t it? “Oh, Mr. Newton, are you
any kin to the fightiewtons 7%

“Get out of my house, you slity cicker, and never
dooken my darr again,” said the irate farmer.
“Heh, heh, you have your words confused. I seel
so filly,” smiled the villain blandly. How do you
like my bland new shoes, Wung Woo? If I can get
my tongue unthwisted, I'll write some poetry. I’ve
always had a half-warmed fish in my heart to,—I
mean a half-formed wish,—be a poet.

POME
She was just a farmer’s daughter
And he was a city chap
He knew he hadn’t caught’er
But they went for a buggy ride.
Just like the daring villain
He stole her pocketbook ;
I knew there’d be a murder
’Cause I heard her father talking:

“Roses are red,

Violets are lavender;
Grandma rides a bicycle
Old Black Joe.”

Airplanes are zooming,
Drums are booming,
Board and Rooming.

These would have been timed better if I hadn't
lost my meterstick. I know the size of a board foot,
but just how big is a lumber yard? No, Rachel, I
don’t use my twelve inch foot as a rule. Remem-
ber the old adage—“Smile and the world see you
in the tooth-paste ads; weep and get a nice big
dose of Fletcher’s Castoria.” Tsk, tsk; mustn’t
break mama’s new umbrella over baby’s head, you
little Swede. Nordic, Nordic.

By the weigh, Scales, have you seen the new ca-
alogue? Yeah, but J don’t think so much of those

_ foreign cars, And what’s more, I don’t believe those

Roman’s went a thousand miles on a galleon.

I called around to see the Czar the other day, but
he was upsairs in his bath robe. I told him to slip
on something and come down. He did; he slipped
on the top step and fell all the way down the
stairs. After I had inquired about the Czarina and
the little Czardines, we went out to dine. The
waiter spoke pleasantly to us as he gave us our
soup: “It looks a little like rain, doesn’t it gentle-
men?” “Well, I wouldn’t go so far as to say that,”
growled the Czar, “but it certainly doesn’t look
like soup.” The waiter slunk off and returned
presently to tell us that the Scotchman, who was
eating pig’s knuckles and ate up to his elbow be-
fore he noticed it, was doing quite well now, thank
you. The next time he came up to me and said,
“How did you find yqur steak, sir?” “Oh, I just
moved the potato and there it was,” I repjied, thus
burning him up properly. No, Percival, that’s not
a picture of Bull Montana; that’s a map of Ireland.

So your plums are ten cents a peck, are they?
What do you think I am a bird? “Oh, mama, look
at the funny man sitting in the sidewalk talking to
a banana peel.” Watson, is that Helen Kane or
do we need a new needle.

You've buttered your bread, now lie on it.
Selah.

It seems that a freshman the other day got a
job in a clothing store. He was being broken in
by a senior who had three years’ experience. After
several lectures to the freshman, the senior con-
cluded with: “You can sell anybody anything. All
you gotta do is go at ’em right.”

About that time a little darkey walked in and the
senior, who was anxious to demonstrate his powers
as a salesman, went right after him,

“Come right in. What can I do for you today?
We have just anything you want.”

The little negro started out, but the senior
stopped him.

“Come on, young fellow. We can sell you any-
thing you want. Now, what did you want to buy?”

“I wants a nickle’s wuf of cheese.”—Ga. Tech
Yellow Jacket.

“I want to speak to my husband,” yelled the
murderer’s wife, frantically phoning the peniten-
tiary.

“Sorry, madam,” replied the polite warden, “but
your party has just hung up.”

“You Noah?”
“Yes, and she’s always been a Jonah to me.”

has gotten over it now, John says that it was
almost a tribulation for him to sit around idle
during his first year here.
