THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 6, 1930

—

Alumni Deaths

J. D. Williams, '97

Joseph DeLeon Williams, member of the
1897 class at Davidson, died at his home
near New Bern last Friday, October: 24.
Mr. Williams was 55 years of age. The de-
ceased was a prominent farmer of that sec-
tion, and was at one time sheriff of Craven
County. He had been in ill health for many
years, though his illness became critical only
a short time before he died.

eee

Fitzhugh Rowe, '29

Members of the Davidson student body
were shocked to learn Monday morning that
Maurice Fitzhugh Rowe, who graduated at
Davidson in 1929, had been instantly killed
in an automobile accident near his home at
Fredericksburg, Va., last Sunday night. He
was a second-year medical student at the
University of Virginia.

According to Associated Press dispatches
from Fredericksburg, the car in which he
was riding with a fellow student and a Fred-
ericksburg girl, collided with. another car,
ran.a hundred yards out of control and
crashed into a telegraph pole. Other than
this, no details were obtainable when The
Davidsonian went to press Monday night.

Among the survivors are Alvin Rowe,
25, and Carter Rowe, ’28. The former is
in the consular service at Nicarauga, and
the latter is a student at«the University of
Virginia.

Alumni Personals

Dr. Everett L. Bishop, ’12, pathologist to
the Steiner Cancer Clinic at Atlanta, Ga,
will read a paper before the Southern Med-
ical Association at its meeting in Louisville,
Ky., on November 11.

Rey. Murphy Williams, 794, of Greens-
boro, was elected moderator of the North
Carolina Synod at its recent meeting in Wil-
mington.

Roland B, Parker, ’26, member of the
Darlington School faculty, of Rome, Ga.,
was unanimously re-elected president of the
Dixie Interscholastic Press Association at
its annual meeting in Knoxville, Tenn.

Dr. A. P. Hudgins, '24, on the staff of
Hinton Hospital, at Hinton, W. Va., is
temporarily studying under a specialist at
Roanoke, Va., and next week will go to
New York for special work. He will return
to Roanoke for a short time, and then go
back to Hinton, W. Va.

Donald E. Brown, '13, cashier of the
Carolina National Bank of Anderson, S. G;

has been elected president of the Kiwanis
Club of that city.

Dr. A. R. McQueen, 03, of Dunn, is the
new moderator of Fayetteville Presbytery.

Davidson Alumnus Is

In Role of Fire Hero

Rev. Smiley Williams, of Welch,
W. Va., Visiting in Charlotte,
Makes Rescue

Rev. Smiley Williams, 14, of Welch, W.
Va., who was visiting in Charlotte recently,
and who was at Davidson Home-Coming
Day for the reunion of the 1910 football
team, played a heroic part in the rescue of
a mother and her two-year-old son in a fire
while in Charlotte. Extracts from The Char-
lotte Observer account of his bravery fol-
low:

“A mother and her two-year-old baby
son, who were trapped in their burning
apartment, owe their lives to two men who
pushed through smoke and flame to drag
them to safety. q

“Mrs. Samuel T. Thorne and her Husband
were badly burned in the fire that started
from some unknown source in their five-
room apartment, but the baby, found crawl-
ing on the floor near the prostrate form of
his mother, who had fainted, was unharmed.

“Rev. Smiley Williams and Chris Pap-
pas, who were sleeping on the ground floor,
heard the woman’s screams and reached the
stairs leading to the burning rooms almost
together. Bounding up the steps the two
men got to the door just as° Harry Leon,
who lives on the second floor, had broken
open the glass with his bare hands and had
been forced back by the. flames.

“J. A. Williams, father of the minister,
handed the latter a key to the locked door.
When Mr. Williams unlocked the door, Mr.
Pappas got hold of the limp form of Mrs.
Thorne just inside the room, .and_the min-
ister crawled on hands and knees to the
middle of the room where the baby was cry-
ing. He picked up the child and soon had
him down the steps behind Mr. Pappas and
the mother.”

Rev. J. H. Carter, ’09, of Anderson, S. C.,
and Rey. McK. R. Long, 10, of Statesville,
are conducting evangelistic services at North
Wilkesboro and Belmont, respéctively.

Dr. J. A. Shaw, ’18, who has been taking
special courses in childrens’ diseases at Cin-
cinnati and St. Louis hospitals for a year,
has returned to his. home in Fayetteville,
resuming practice there.

George Mallison, ’91, LL.B., George
Washington University, and Commander U.
S. Navy, retired, has recently published a
book, “Color at Home and Abroad.” The
book has been favorably reviewed in The
Boston Transcript, Army and Navy Register,
both of the Charleston (S. C.) newspapers,
The Daily Press of Newport News, Va., the
Methodist Quarterly Review, and a num-
ber of smaller papers in several different
states. The book is an. extensive study of
the race problem.

When

soft, long-lived.

made,
Go take a look at

heavy, the hanespun
both trunk and chest.

2

ing styles, rich materials and many
and- HANES Shirts and Shorts.

—, SS

H

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR
LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

: ) you button. up in HANES, you button out all the underwear
grief you've ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or
binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are

HANES fis a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more
masculine. company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t

; y the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit.
It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-
cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of

If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleas-

1

special features in HANES Athletics

Ss

VANES

Fire Hero

Used by Courtesy of The Charlotte —

Observer

G. T. Preer, ’29, who was at Columbia
Theological Seminary early this year, has
decided to continue his study at philosophy
at Brown University, and is working on his
Ph.D. degree to prepare himself for the

teaching profession. He is at 343 Thayer
St., Providence, R. I.

M. W. Trawick, ’25, and D. H. Howard,
Jr., ’28, are again at Cornell University,
Ithaca, N. Y., this fall. Mr. Trawick is
studying physics, and Mr. Howard is con-
tinuing his work in the chemistry depart-
ment.

———

A. M. Hillhouse, ’24, who obtained his
law degree from New York University.Jast
June, is in the trust department of the Na-
tional Loan and Exchange Bank, of Colum-
bia, S. C.

Alumni Marriages

Engagements

t

Groves-Reynolds
Information has been recently received at
alumni office of the marriage last May
15 of Rev. John Woodson Groves, of Lex-
ington, Miss., to Miss Ella Reynolds, of
Pyeng Yang, Korea, the marriage taking
place in Korea. Mr. Groves graduated from
Davidson in 1922, and following his semi-
nary work he accepted a pastorate at Jack-
son, Miss. Mrs. Groves is a graduate of
Peace Institute, at Raleigh.

v

Wharton-Tilley

“Mrs. Emma Stone Tilley announces the
marriage of her daughter, Mary, to Mr.
Lacy Donnell Wharton, Jr., on Saturday,
November 1, Greensboro, N. C.” Mr. Whar-
ton graduated at Davidson in 1927, became
connected with The Greensboro News, and

‘I left North Carolina to study on a master’s

degree at Harvard. In June, 1929, he joined
the staff of The New York Herald-Tribune,
but resigned in September to become asso-
ciate editor of The Outlook and Independ-
ent. Mrs. Wharton obtained her education
at N. C. C. W. Mr. and Mrs. Wharton will
reside in New York City. ;
Edwards-Biggers

George Davis Edwards, 1928 alumnus of
Davidson, and Miss Mildred Jeannette Big-
gers, both of Charlotte, were married at the
East Avenue A. R. P. Tabernacle in Char-
lotte on October 29. Mr. Edwards attended
Davidson for two years, later going to Cen-
tre College, in Kentucky, from which he
was graduated. He was captain of the base-
ball team of Centre and leader in other
activities. Mrs. Edwards attended Queens

Cooper-Price

“Dr. S. E. Cooper, of Water Valley, Miss.,
announces the engagement of his daughter,
Alice Gordon, to Mr. John Kauffman Price,
of Alexandria, La., the wedding to take
place the early part of November in the
First Presbyterian Church, Water Valley.”

Mr. Price graduated from Davidson in
1922, and later studied at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. He worked for a
while in Boston, later going to the Far
West. For the past year or two he has been
in the banking business at Alexandria, La.
Miss Cooper was graduated from the Cin-
cinnati Conservatory of Music, and has re-
cently returned from France, where she stud-
ied at the American Conservatory of Music
at Fontainebleau.

Chamness-Hunter

Announcement was recently made of the
engagement and approaching marriage this
fall of Miss Christine Chamness, of Blen-
heim, S. C., to Charles R. Hunter, of Max-
ton. Mr. Hunter was graduated from’ Da-
vidson in 1925, and is a native of Blenheim.
Since finishing at Davidson he has taught
at Elizabethtown and is now connected with
the Maxton Junior College.; He his also
Studied at the University of North Caro-
lina. Miss Chamness is a graduate of Chi-
cora College, now combined with Queens,
and for the past year taught in the schools
at Kershaw, S. C..,

College and later graduated from East Caro-
lina Teachers College at Greenville, N. C.
She taught at the latter institution one year.

==>

IS

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North ||
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

|

UL

© 1930, Licozrt & Myzas Tosacco Co,

Less talk and
more taste—

3 aa

ONE will always stand out!

|

