N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

APRIL 17, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SYRECRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per 3 $2.00 the Col-
ok Year. Entered as second c’ se ates ie the Post

ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands: of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

}

Z£8_V. LONG, Jr...
E. H. McCALL r

EDITORIAL STAFF

. B. BLACK Managing Editor
yw. McCUTCHAN. Mana; as Editor
. C. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN..... Athi atte Editor
j V. D. MIDDLETON...__..._...--.----- Assignment Editor
. F. PRESTON eature Editor
i L. BROWN . ---Feature Editor
. F. JARRATT. A i Editor
F. D, MILLER. < A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A iate Editor
— SE
, BUSINESS STAFF

e . CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
BOYD iption Mgr.

A. J. BAKER menwepaec
P. M. CONWAY licitor
. H. McKINNON icitor
. O. MANN. icitor
. a es licitor
fame) 2 licitor
—S>>>>>SSSS=sasS—_—_—_—_—_=_—_———————

REPORTERS’ CLUB

E. S. HEEFNER President
LV De OLETON - Vice-President
BERRY Den ON wn onnsnnenen one orotacy Treasurer

Aaa

. MATTHEWS
| MARTIN

L~ pada)

Q

2Ro=
alot
nan

MATTHEWS, W.

H.
DWELLE, E. C.

ow.
=
a
=)
>
za

APRIL 17, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Good-bye and good luck to Dr. Bill Anderson
from a student body which learned to love him in
the few short days of his visit. It will probably be
a long time before his equal in the art of touching
college men comes to the campus.

Easter Monday coming up will find Monk
taking the best ball tossers on his roster over
Winston-Salem way to open negotiations with
Tar Heels. Chances look mighty good for the
"Cats. Follow them over if you can. It just hap-
pens that Salem is the name of a college over
there. Does that help you along

Well, here’s wishing the new boss of the paper
all the luck there is. May his staff be a good one.
May the campus just run over with news for him.
May his editorials be read more than some which
have gone before, Of course, now, you didn’t

skip
any of them this year, did you? :

We want to see the whole student body get
in behind the big installation service and social
soon to be given for it. That occasion will mean
a great deal to this old spirit we think so much
of, and will give us a better idea of what
Davidson is really standing for.

Senior exams start about a month from today,
and others just a week or so later. Since they seem
to be the necessary farewells from the college year,
we'd better arrange to take them in good style.
Have your secretary make a few study dates now,
so that last few days won't be such a grind.

MAKE IT STICK

Now that Bill Anderson has come and
gone, we hope that the principles of
straightforward life which he advoated will
not be forgotten. They are far too important
to be neglected by a single man on David-
son: campus. If we can make them stick
from day to day, basing our thinking and
our decisions squarely upon them, the differ-
ence in happiness will be amazing.

The things Bill said had nothing less than
a wonderful virility. They came from a man
who was a boy at heart, who knew the feel-
ings and the problems of boys. He, brought
his message, based on the great truth of the
ages, straight to the hearts of his hearers,
appealing to them, for the sake of the Per-
fect Man, to stand for the very best things
in life. We believe he reached the depths of
the fellows’ intellectual and emotional na-
tures to a degree which is seldom attained.
And sincerely do we thank him for his serv-
ice. :
.. The.point now is to remember the spirit-
nal experience of the days just ended as
holding the keys toa finer and more fruitful
life. Whatever we do, wherever we go, the
code. yitalized'by Bill Anderson should form
the background for our little act. Determine

that the code for real men shall be ours!

?

PROHIBITION

In view of the current wave of interest aroused
concerning the question of prohibition, we offer
the following editorial from the pen of Dr. Walter
L. Lingle. It appeared in “The Presbyterian of the
South” for March 26, 1930:

Like Banquo’s ghost, the liquor question
will not down. It certainly began as far back
as the days of Noah. It abides.to this day
and grows in its insistency. For a great
many years the temperance forces were
busy educating people concerning the evils
of the liquor traffic. One by one the States
banished it until a very large part of the
area of the United States was dry. Then
came national prohibition and the Eigh-
teenth Amendment.

The temperance forces rejoiced. They
thought that the victory was won. But their
halleluahs were a bit premature. The age-
long liquor traffic is not so easily disposed.
of. The metropolitan newspapers and bil-
lions of wealth were enlisted against prohi-
bition. The ‘opposition to prohibition grew
louder each year. In 1928 there was a presi-
dential election. One candidate announced a
personal platfrom, which was distinctly and
even violently opposed to the Eighteenth
Amendment. He was defeated by a majority
of over six million and by a majority of the
electoral votes that was simply overwhelm-
ing. Again the temperance forces rejoiced.
They thought that another victory had been
won. They knew that many other factors
entered into the presidential election, but
they thought that the liquor question was at
least one of the outstanding factors. But
again their rejoicing were premature.

Today the opposition to the Eighteenth
Amendment is more vocal than ever before.
There may not be more people opposed to
it, but their clamor is louder. They are bet-
ter organized and have a growing power of

wealth behind them. Worst of all, the issue-

has largely ceased to be a moral one, and
become intensely political. There are many
politicians who care nothing for its moral
values, but are tremendously concerned
about its political values. We who believe
in temperance may as well frankly face this
whole question. But what can we do?

First of all, we can remember that the
Bible, which is the Christian’s Guide Book,

-stands for temperance and righteousness, It

might be a bit difficult to prove that the
Bible makes it a sin to take a drink of wine
or some other alcoholic drink. However, it
does make it a dangerous thing to do. Over
and over in the Bible we are warned against
the evils and dangers of strong drink. But it
is perfectly clear that the Bible stands for
temperance and righteousness, and that be-
ing true, the Christian must stand for them.
Not only so, but the Christian must stand
for those measures which he honestly. be-
lieves will best promote temperance and
righteousness.

In the second place, we should realize that
the present laws on this subject are not per-
fect. Nothing that is human is perfect. There
may be a more excellent way of promoting

‘\ temperance and righteousness than we have

yet found. If there is a better way we ought
to try to fin dit. Any discussion of this ques-
tion generally develops more heat than
light. It is light that we need.

The istian in discussing the subject
ought toe sure of his facts, and he ought
to stick to the facts. Too many of the dis-
cussions on both sides are works of the
imagination.

In the third place, our approach to this
subject should be constructive and not sim-
ply destructive. Those who raise the loudest
clamor against the present liquor laws have
no definite plans or laws to take their place.
They want the present laws repealed, but
that is as far as the most of them can go.
Think for a moment where that would leave
us. You ask them whether they want the old

saloon back. A few of them will reply in the -

affirmative, but the great majority reply
with an emphatic negative.

The most of those who oppose the present
liquor, laws will intimate that they would
like to see governmental ownership or con-
trol, but they do not suggest any definite
plan. I wonder if we have thought through
the meaning of governmental ownership of
the liquor business. That woald be socialism
on a large scale, and we may well pause and
ask ourselves whether we are ready to en-
dorse socialism on so large a scale. But
vastly worse than that, governmental: own-
ership would be setting up a vast political
machine of the worst sort. The old saloon
had large political influence. Governmental
ownership, would have a much vaster influ-
ence. |
Ask the older people of South Carolina
what they think of governmental ownership
and control. They tried it twenty-five years
ago. Governor Tilman worked out a scheme
for the handling of liquor in South Carolina

known as the dispensary plan. By this plan

control of the liquor trade. Any county that
wanted a dispensary could have it. A com-
mission composed of honest and honorable
citizens was ge ea and put in charge of
the liquor trade. Within a few years it was
discovered that some of these honest and
honorable members of the commission had
been bribed up to the limit by the liquor in-
terests. Some of them were sent to the peni-
tentiary. The whole plan was honeycombed
with corruption through and through.

Ask the Christian leaders what they think
of governmental ownership and control in
Canada, and they will tell you that it has
resulted in the increased consumption of
liquor and in increased drunkenness. The
New York Times this morning contained a
condensed statement of the report of the
Liquor Control Commission of Ontario. They
sold fifty-five million dollars worth of liquor
in 1929. The report also contains this para-
graph: “Evils resulting from the abuse of
liquor have been ever present. The sin of
drunkenness is still with us, and probably
will remain with a host of other sins.”

That is an interesting statement tobe
found in the official report of a government-
al commission. It is a confession that gov-
ernmental control has not promoted the
cause of temperance.

Some who are opposed to our present
liquor laws advocate referring the liquor
question back to each individual State, thus
allowing each of the forty-eight States to
make its own liquor laws. I would vote for
this if each State could confine its liquor
within its own bounds, thus allowing an
adjacent State. to have its own laws and
plans. But this cannot be done. We tried it
for years and it would not work. For ex-
ample, Virginia voted dry by a large ma-
jority and passed stringent laws. But the
liquor trade of Maryland, an adjoining State,
declined to observe Virginia’s liquor laws.
Under the head of interstate commerce,
which Virginia could not control, the Mary-
land liquor dealers poured their liquor into
Virginia: Liquor dealers have never been
willing for individual States to have their
own liquor laws, They violate those laws in
every conceivable way.

Thus as we glance about it is difficult to
find a satisfactory plan, or a better one than
we have now. The truth of the matter is
that liquor has always refused to be con-
trolled or regulated. Do not forget that, as
you try to think of a better way than we
now have.

This is a question on which we need to
do some clear, Christian thinking. Not only
so, but’ we need to do our own thinking.
Newspapers tell us that liquor is every-
where. Our rivers are fairly flowing with
it. Friends may tell you that liquor can be
bought anywhere and everywhere in your
own city. They tell us that college students
are drinking it as never before. What is your
own observation on this question? I have
rather large opportunities to make.observa-
tions. I am often on railroad trains and in
hotels. I walk the streets of our larger cities.
I attend college football games. I have seen
only one drunken man in the past five years.
He was at a football game, but was not a
college student. It is the rarest thing that I
see any signs of liquor. Of course it may
be said that I am an innocent abroad, or that
I do not move in circles where liquor is to
be found. That may be true, and yet if it
-were so abundant I would certainly see
more signs of it and more drunken men in
public places. Back in the days of saloons I
saw plenty of whiskey in public places and
plenty of drunken men.

This is a time when we should not let loud
talking stampede us. We need to do some
observing and thinking for ourselves. Above
all, we who are Christians need to do some
praying, that our heavenly Father may work
in us both to will and to do of His good
pleasure in this great matter.

Walter L. Lingle.

A new sort of watch winds itself, and if some
one will perfect a device to put out the milk-bottles
automatically, there should be ‘no further trouble
about going to bed.—Detroit News,

“Pat, I am sending your waistcoat; to save
_weight I have cut all the buttons off. Your loving
mother, :

“P, S—You will find the buttons in. your upper
left pocket.”

Teacher: “When was Rome built?”

Boy: “At night.” :

Teacher: “Who told you that?”

Boy: “You did. You said Rome wasn’t built in
a day.”

the saloon was abolished and the State took,

Kaye Don, English sportsman, has decided to
return home with his racer, The Silver Bullet.
The machine was built by the “Sunshine” people
and was probably worth more than twenty thou-
sand dollars. He aimed for the world’s record
speed of approximately 235 miles per hour. Don
did not realize that there are other matters to be
considered besides the quality of the machine and
the driver. The condition of the beach, visibility,
humidity, and other natural phenomena have their
effect; they cannot always produce ideal condi-
tions. It is easy to understand the advantages of
testing stock’cars, but it is rather difficult to recon-
cile the expenditures of large sums of money for
the mere sake of holding a record.

That fine aviator, Hawkes, is to be congrat-
ulated on his flight across the United States in
a glider towed by a heavier than air convey-
ance. It is the first recent triumph of American
aeronautics. One does not have to read the
comments of Arthur Brisbane to know that
Germany and other European countries have
surpassed other nations in stunt and endur-
ance flights. It is a wonder that a foreigner
was not the first to pull Hawkes’ experiment.
(No, we do not forget Lindbergh, nor do we
forget the Graf Zeppelin.) There may be some
altruists who resent the inference that the
United States should excell in every phase of
such activities, but can there be a logical ex-
cuse for the failure of a country which is the
richest and best situated of any in the world?

To use a slang expression, “agitators against the
the younger generation give us a pain.” An auto-
mobile may go farther and park longer, but it
won't run with the reins tied around the wrip-
stock. There is probably little difference in the
morals practiced by succeeding generations. As a
concrete example that the youth of to-day are not
growing physically weaker because of lax prac-
tices, a few figures would be in order. Out of
fourteen school records of field and track events
four are held by men now in school. One of these,
the broad jump mark, had stood from the year of
1896. Seniors and Juniors now at Davidson have
seen no less than nine school records fall, and this
number does not include the times that these men
have broken their own marks, Only one record
now stands that was set before 1920, and, two
week ago it came dangerously close to succumbing
to the efforts of the present younger generation.

In a large Eastern city a hungry man tries
to steal a milk bottle and loaf of bread and is
shot in his get-away. It will be recalled that
the notorious criminal, pal of Gerald Chapman,
George Anderson, was apprehended in this
same manner. When men risk arrest and death
for food in this country, the world’s most pros-
perous nation, it is not difficult to understand
Communist agitations in foreign localities. A
starving man with famished children will glad-
ly listen to a fanatical propagandist who offers
any promises at all. Rome’s bread-line aided in
the downfall of the empire, but Russia is mak-
ing a great and interesting experiment.

There is not a concrete argument for the fol-
lowing assertion, however true or false it may be.
Yet, it appears that the campus has been favored
with speakers in the past two weeks who have
proved unusually interesting. Many names come to
the minds of upperclassmen in connection with
lectures and addresses. Doctors “Tolly” Thompson,
Ben Lacy, Sam Glasgow, Vander Meulen are a
few of them. Fresh in the minds of students, how-
ever, are the names of Sir Herbert Ames and Dr.
W. M. Anderson. Of a different type and purpose

} these two men have been as favorably received

by the student body as any speaker who has ever
visited Davidson. No student could hear either one
and refrain from thinking, nor could that student
keep from being inspired. And, in a list of popu-
lar lecturers, Mr. William Ellsworth should not be

* forgotten.

With this effort Cosmic Chaos makes its
final bow or rather, to be poetic, its Swan
Song. To its regular readers, there may be a
few, this column offers its appreciation for pa-
tient endurance. To the chance reader we say
that in one more week you would have been
safe. Cosmic Chaos is flickering and is out.

Tommy: “There’s a girl at our school, mamma,
they call ‘Postscript. Do you know why?”

Mamma: “No, dear.” :

Tommy: “Because her name is Adeline Moore.”

The man who once thost wisely said,

“Be sure you're right, then go ahead,”

Might well have added this, to-wit: “Be sure
you're wrong before you’ quit!”
