THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

ny

mine

i

Davidson 1910 Players Do Not

Regret Having

Twenty Questionnaires Filled Out
on Home-Coming by Men Who
Performed on the Gridiron for
Davidson College Twenty
Years Ago Contain Inter-
esting Information

WOULD ADVISE IMMEDIATE
FAMILY TO PLAY

Many Cited Instances Where They
Had Occasion to Put Into Practice
The Things They Had Learned
on the Football Field

Do football players regret having  partici-
pated in the gridiron sport 20 years after
graduation? Would they strongly urge mem-
bers of their own immediate families to par-
ticipate in intercollegiate football? Do foot-
ball players ever have occasion to put into
practice things they learned on the grid-
iron? And what inspires football players to
do their best?

Universal answers to these questions would
no doubt be of vast importance and inter-
est to football coaches throughout the coun-
try, to college presidents, to college student
bodies, to high school students, and to the
public in general. Some may even go so far
as to say that the affirmative or negative re-
plies to such a questionnaire would justify
or nullify the existence of the present sport
which has captivated millions of people.

If answers to such questions can be used
as a criterion, and if the football players
of Davidson College 20 years ago can be
considered as a cross-section, then players
do not regret having participated in. the
sport, they find numerous occasions when
they can advantageously use the things they
learned. on the gridiron, and there are in-
numerable reasons why a player does his
best.

When the 1910 state championship foot-
ball team of Davidson returned to the cam-
pus Home-Coming Day for a reunion, a ques-
tionnaire was presented to them along the
above lines. Proponents of the idea contend-
ed that these heroes of two decades ago
were now mature men, and would not answer
the questions haphazardly or with the imma-
ture minds of recent graduates. On the other
hand, their answers would be made after 20
years in the business or professional world,
and would indicate mature judgment.

Twenty players were at Davidson on Oc-
tober 25, and 20 questionnaires had “No”
to the following: “You participated in your
last intercollegiate football contest 20 years
ago. During those 20 years, has there, at
any time, been any regrets that you were
a participant?” In other words, these 20 men
were unanimous in saying that there had
been no regrets. To be emphatic, one an-
swered, “Positively no.”

The second query was, “Do you, or would
you, strongly urge or advise those eligible
in your immediate family to play intercol-
legiate football?” Again Davidson’s 20 play-
ers on the 1910 title team were unanimous
in saying that they would so advise. All an-
swered “Yes.” Two had these reservations :

“Yes, if built for it and had confidence in
the coach,” and “Yes, with proper training
and no apparent physical defects.”

Question No. 3: “Since leaving college,
during your professional or business careers,
you have doubtless encountered situations
which demanded immediate decisions, quick
action, ‘a second to think, so to speak, in
arriving at your conclusions. Have you ever
considered that your football training was
helpful to you?”

Eighteen of the 20 players unequivocably
answered, “Yes,” one of these 18 men say-
ing, “Yes, many times!” ‘The other two had
answers, “Very likely,” and “I think so.”

(4) “If your answer to No. 3 is yes,” said
the questionnaire, “kindly cite an instance.”
Some of the players cited several instances,
and without comment, some of the answers
are given below:

“Avoided would-be auto accident.” “Sav-
ing my boy from a serious fall—the most
outstanding attribute is getting into action

Played Football

quickly.” “It has aided me in quick decisions
and to carry on under any circumstances.”
“In in meeting unexpected
turns in making a sale.” “In medical pro-
fession, quick decision has been frequent.”
“Getting a platoon of men out of line of
shell fire.”

salesmanship,

“One

work, Another

occasion—a_ proposition for other
~a near accident with automo-
hile.” “Speed in two cases this week, both
whom had stopped breathing.” “Aided
me to make one ‘quick’ decision while in
service (U. S. Navy) won promo-
tion.’ “My entire business life necessitates
quick work and thinking.” “Too many to
mention—a near train accident being one in
particular.” ~

ot

which

“The performance of an emergency opera-
tion (1918), qhick decision being necessary.”
“When I went into the army for overseas
“All questions as. they
come up, especially under adverse decisions.”
“Rescued baby from burning building.” “In
evangelistic campaigns, in personal work, in
young people’s work.” “Once or twice, keep-
ing cool in dealing with salesmen.”

service.” business

Quite varied were the answers to the final
question, “While you were a member of this
1910 Davidson team which, in your opinion,
stimulated you individually to a tensity in
contest, what keyed your fighting ‘spirit to
a higher pitch than anything else?”

Seven that it was their foot-
ball coach, his talks before the game, his
leadership, his character, spirit and person-
ality. Four cited college spirit and four said
it was “love for old Davidson.” These three
things led the list. Three said that it was
their natural of the sport, another
thought that being outclassed inspired them,
two said teamwork, and another contended
that it was an appeal to sacrifice.

One of the players said that “it was a
slap on the back from some other teammate
who was as tired as you.” Another said
that it was the realization that “ten others
were expecting you to do your part.” And
many other reasons bordering on the ones
listed above, but differently expressed, were
given by the men. /

answered

love

Six 1926 graduates were members of the
Mohican Club, and in the four and a half
years since graduation have kept up a round
robin letter that has “made the rounds”
every two months. It is interesting to note
that six men are now scattered to
five different states. Four are married, four
are ‘teachers and two are ministers. This
club contained A. Y. Bowie, Birmingham,
Ala.; L. L. Deck, Atlanta, Ga.; G. M.
Eddington, Franklin, Tenn. ; Rev. J. M. Gar-
rison, Columbia, Mo.; Rev. A. H. Hollings-
worth, Jr., Georgetown, Ky., and R. B,
Parker, Rome, Ga.

these

Davidson alumni recently elected as offi-
cers of medical societies include Dr, R. M.
King, 1900, of Concord, as president of the
Seventh District Associaiton, and Dr, D. S.
Currie, ’07, of Parkton, as vice-president of
the Fifth District Medical Society.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

EE

Used by Courtesy of The St. Louis (Mo.)
Globe-Democrat

Alumni Deaths

R. M. Foster, ’71

Judge Robert Magruder Foster, who re-
ceived both his bachelor of arts and master
of arts degrees from Davidson in 1871, died
at his apartment in St. Louis, Mo., on No-
vember 1. He was 78 years old. For a half-
century this Davidson alumnus had been’ a
prominent figure in St. Louis’ legal, polit-
ical and civic life.

The deceased was born in Georgia, and
studied for two at Alabama Male
College before he entered Davidson in 1869.
Graduating from

years

here, he studied law at
Washingten University, completing — his
course in the St.Louis Law School in

1875. His law career was successful, and at
one time he was circuit judge in St, Louis.
He was a member of the American Bar As-
sociation and the Missouri State Bar Asso-
ciation,

Before his retirement from the law and
business world 15 years ago, Judge Foster
had served as president of the Central Ar-
Kansas and Eastern Railway Company, the
Helena Water Company, the
(Ark.) Farm Company, and
Townsite Company.

Births

Rev. H. N. Alexander, '10, and Mrs. Alex-
ander, of Brandon, Miss., announce the birth
of a daughter, Susanna, on October 22

Haywood
the Praire

Mr. William H. Neal, 18, and Mrs. Neal,
of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a
son, William Henry, Jr., on October 24.

Mr. C. R. Crawford, '23, and Mrs. Craw-
ford, of Kinston, announce the birth of a
daughter, Patricia, on November 5.

An ancient pair of Egyptian dice, dating
from Cleopatra’s day, have been received by
the Chicago Field Museum.

“4
Po

*

Garland Court

Dk

Printing and Engraving
of
Every Description

J. A. CANNON
311 Watts

‘STANDARD PRINTING CO.

Charlotte, N. C.

The alumni office is indebted to Thos. W.
Rankin, '09, of Fayetteville, for a photo of
the 1907 football team, which picture was
recently received. Mr. Rankin also gave the
alumni office a photograph of the 1909 team,
two years ago. These pictures, along with
others of recent squads, and trophies, are on
display in the “D” Club room in the north
end of Elm Row.

Rev. H. H. Cassady, 1900, is supplying
the pulpit of the Ora Street
Church at Asheville until next spring.

Presbyterian

RGVialing Or D.D., ‘04, the
Armistice Day speaker at Concord Tuesday.

Rowan, was

Rev. R. C. Clontz, ’21,

istic services at Kenansville.

is holding evangel-

Dr. Bernard R. Smith, '06, of Asheville,
has been chosen as physician to Herbert
Hoover, Jr., during the stay of the Presi-
dent's son in Asheville. Mr. Hoover plans
to be in Asheville for at least six months.
Selection of Dr.. Smith by Dr.
Joel T. Boone, White House physician.

was made

Alumni Marriages

Law-Potter
“Mrs. Bertha C. Potter announces the
marriage of her daughter, Frances Ruth,

to William Latta Law, on Saturday, October
11, at Moorestown, N. J.”

Mr. Law is an alumnus of Davidson in
the class of 1916. He was originally of Rock
Hill, S. C., and after serving with the United
States Expeditionary Forces in France, went
to Havana, Cuba, where he was in business.
He later was located in Lakeland, Fla., and
has more recently gone to Moorestown, N.
J., where he has business connections. He is
at 133 FE. Main St.. Moorestown, N. J.

Elliott-Gibbes

“Mr. Mrs. W. H. Gibbes announce
the marriage of their daughter, Mildred, to
William Talley Elliott, on Wednesday Oc-
tober 29, at Columbia, S. C.”

and

Mr. Elliott graduated from Davidson in
1923. He. entered the law department of the
University of South Carolina, completed his
work at that institution, and has been teach-
ing law at the University and practicing at
Columbia, S. C., for some time. Mr, Elliott
is located at 901 Loan & Exchange Bank
Bldg., Columbia.

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’77, who
has been in Asheville for some time, is now
located in Columbia, S. C., at 1600 Hampton
Street.

Rev. T. L. Fraser, ‘23, is now preaching
at North Haledon, N. J. Mr. Fraser has
been studying at the Biblical Seminary in
New York for the past two years.

Paul B. Frye, ’29, is teaching school at
Waynesville, N. C.

The address of Rey. W. A. Christian, Jr.,
27, in Edinburgh, Scotland, is 16 Dundonald
Street.

Rev. J. R. Woods, ’18, who has been do-
ing mission work at Elsa, Texas, has gone
to Peiping, China, where he is teaching in
the North China Union Languagé® School.

Dr. Geo. R: Wilkinson, ’12, of Green-
ville, S. C., recently read a paper before
Fover 100 medical men of the Fourth Dis-
trict Medical Association of South Caro-
lina.

I. C. Moomaw, °25, of Roanoke, Va., is
credit manager of the LeGrand Jewelry

Company, which has a chain of seven stores.

(Chol, YN, IL,

who

Gaston, "96, of Chester, S. C.,
elected to the state legislature
this summer, is a candidate for the position
of justice of the Supreme Court bench of
South Carolina.

Was

——d

Lanier Gant, ’30, was among 84 graduate
students receiving awards from Columbia
University this summer. He is studying in
the law department of this New York school,
and is at 410 Furnald Hall.

me) Complete Service
for School Publications
Ynnuals
Manazines
Catalous
Jiew Books
Queen Cily PrintingCo.

Charlotte RC. |

Cstablished 169%

@ tune annnngonnaninanmennniunmmrnannn mine

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well equipped
U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

} ine 2A ee

soft, long-lived.

made.

heavy,
both trunk and chest.

and HANES Shirts and Shorts.

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR
LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

_ When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear
grief you’ve ever known. HANES

binds. The reinforced cuffs don't pull off—buttons stay! The materials are

i HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more
masculine company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t

_ Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit.
It's really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-
the hanespun cotton is knitted

If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleas-
ing styles, rich materials and many

always fits you—never bunches or

and cut to careful measurements of

special features in HANES Athletics

