A ya
ee

dL

2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

New Plén For Managing
Local Golf Course Will |
Facilitate Conditions

Comprehensive Rules to be Per-
fected and Rigidly Enforced

SPECIAL GOLF COMMITTEE

Burden of Upkeep Taken From One
Man and Placed in Hands of
Group

The Executive Committee of the Trustees
at a recent meeting approved a new plan for
the management of the Golf Course at David-
son. The care and upkeep of the course was
put under the supervision of the Buildings
and Grounds Committee of the College which
is composed of the following members: Prof.
W. W. Wood, Mr? F. L. Jackson, and Drs.
W. R. Grey, J. M. McConnell, and Walter
L. Lingle. Mr. Hobart, the Superintendent |
of Grounds and Buildings, will have the |
immediate oversight of the Golf Course in
co-operation with the above Committee. It
is the purpose of this Committee to keep

THE DAVIDSONIAN AT HOME |

the course and greens in as good order as |
possible with a very limited amount of money
at their disposal. 1

There is also a Golf Committee composed |
of the following members: Prof. H. E. Ful-
cher, and Drs. G. B. Watts and H. M.}
Moffett. The President of the College is an |
ex-officio member of this Committee. It ‘is |
the duty of the Golf Committee to formulate |
and enforce the rules which are to govern the |
playing of golf on the course. This Com- |
mittee hopes to formulate these rules in the |
near future and to have them. published in|
The Davidsonian. |

Any student who desires to play and will |
observe the rules of the course may play. free |
|

of all charge. |

Any member of the faculty or college staff, |
is eligible for membership upon payment of
such fee as the Golf Committee may decide
as fair and equitable.

The Golf Committee shall also have the
power toiqecide whether arry one who is not
connected with the college shall have the
right to play, and to decide what fees such
persons shotild pay.

One difficulty in keeping: the course in
order has been that the course is often used
in wet weather and this ruins the greens.
The Golf Committee has the power to close

the course when the greens are too wet for
use.

It is hoped that all those who love golf
will co-operate with the Buildings and
Grounds Committee in keeping the course
in good order, and will co-operate with the
Golf Committee in observing an enforcing
all the rules which the Committee may deem
wise.

It is hoped’ that the new plan will result
in the improvement of the course and in the
improvement of golf at Davidson. It cer-
tainly distributes responsibility. Heretofore,
Doctor Arbuckle has had to bear the brunt
of the responsibility and do most of the work.
All golf player at Davidson, past and pres-
ent, are under lasting obligations to Doctor
Arbuckle for making a golf course at David-
son possible and for the upkeep of the course
from its beginning to the present.

Fresh Track Squad
To Leave For Meet

Freshmen Will Compete With
Many Strong Teams

At the first indoor track meet of the South-
ern Conference, Davidson will be represented
by freshmen only, as Varsity men are in-
eligible because Davidson does not belong
to the Southern Conference.

Only four men will go. Bob McCallie and
Alex Little will run the high hurdles; Alex
Earle will be our one representative in the
three-quarter mile, and Fred Fleagle will
run the sixty-yard dash.

This meet will hardly be a fair test of the
abilities of these freshmen because it will
be the first time they have had any indoor
work,

Captain Pritchett expects to take these
men to Chapel Hill with him Saturday, as
he has to go as an official/ anyway.

Spring football has interferred /with both
Little and Fleagle in their track work,
Neither has had opportunity to do much
work,

This trip should act as encouragement for
all Freshmen to come out and do some work
for the squad. Much material is needed at

‘ FIVE YEARS AGO SOCIAL FRATERNITIES
Occupied the present editorial offices of The Davidsonian. The scene above is reminiscent of the days before clicking
typewriters and busy reporters moved into the ancient homes of the Campus Greeks.

BEETHOVEN

Horace W. Ervin

In The World Of Music

Just at the time when the free-minded
colonies of America were seething with un-
rest and were formenting a spirit of rebellion
which would in less than ten years percipi-
tate them into a war with the mother coun-
try—a war that was to culminate in liberation
of the common people and which was to
spread, revolutionary ideas throughout Eu-
rope—a revolutionary figure in the first
of music first saw the light of day on Decem-
ber 16, 1770, in a little cottage in the Ger-
man town of Bonn, As° Shakespeare is re-
vered in literature, Newton in science and
mathematics, Plato in philosophy, so Bee-
thoven is heralded in music. Ludwig von
Beethoven! The name, itself suggestive of
romance, is familiar to all peoples. For his
influence on both masters and amateurs in
music is overpowering.

The child Beethoven was early instructed
on the violin and piano by his musical father.
Such symptoms of genius did he evince in
his infancy that his father compelled him to
practise long hours. Some say that he was
cruel in his exactions from the child and
often locked Ludwig in a room with his
instruments. Others have it that the —bey.
was often awakened at an early hour, a violin
shoved into his hands, and a peremptory
command given to apply himself zealously.

Whatever the case, the young Beethoven
appears at the age of six an infant prodigy
playing before the nobility of cultured Eu-
rope.His avaricious father attempted to in-
crease the bewilderment of his patronizers
by misrepresenting Ludwig’s age two years,
advertising him to be four (a fact later con-
firmed by Beethoven himself) ! Brought be-
fore the celebrated Mozart, his performance
was disappointing ; but perceiving the appar-
ent unconcern of his listener, Ludwig de-
manded a theme upon which to improvise,
which, when supplied, he treated with such
skill and beauty that, Mozart's eyes were
opened, whereupon he exclaimed, “Watch
that boy. He will make a noise in the world
some day.”

Little did Mozart realize that Beethoven’s
noise was to surpass his own, that the young
genius, whom he willingly took as a pupil,
would outstrip him, continue his work, and
develop it to extent which has never been

present, so if possible, come out.

excelled. He little dreamed, perhaps, that

his pupil would alter musical form and pat-
tern, which he was then teaching Ludwig,
to suit himself, and commute the purpose of
music from a mere outlet of artistic thought
to the expression of emotion and life itself.

_ This was Beethoyen’s achievement. His
early compositions bear deeply fhe influence
of his two illustrious teachers, Mozart and
Haydn, the latter the renowned “father of
the symphony” or “Papa Haydn.” His real
self had not yet been thrown into his art, he
had barely learned to live and express his
life in music. But when he did attain com-
plete mastery over his field and did look
ahead to the progress of music, then he
overstepped his teachers’ instruction, and

came forth the mighty Beethoven to domi-
nate and to create.

What a creative genius was here! Think
of expressing one’s soul, one’s longings, pas-
sions, despairs in a “concord of sweet
sounds.” Imagine the welcome to a music
which fit into the lives of people and made
them feel and. understand the expressions
of the soul; made them recognize in a lan-
guage other than speech their own emotions;
brought to them joy, sorrow, happiness, and
love, such as reading and telling did, but
in a way far more personal, far more impres-
sive. Here was no mere man: here was a
superman.

Beethoven was a tragic figure. To be
afflicted with deafness was to him the loss
of life itself. The symptoms of its oncoming

STOP
| that
COLD and COUGH

de

fhe “QUICER RELIBF” Cold Remedy fer
College Stadente, cold by a Collen: Student

Your vaUGGisT
HAS COLDEX

Sim Gailewey
UAB. Cie

startled, terrified him, so that he would not
reveal his state to friends. Yet irrestibly it
came, sent by inexorable fate to despoil him
of his one great joy. He recognized the fate
of it in his famous C Minor Symphony.
Indeed he constantly lays bare in his music
the realization of his impending deafness,
bold rebellion against it, and even a hope-
less ‘resignation to it.
(Continued in next issue)

Football Training
Holds Large Squad

Tilson Gives Stiff Workouts
Covering All Fundamentals

Spring football training has assumed all
the traits of the real thing now after some
three weeks of intensive work and Tex Til-
son, a great advocate of pigskinning in the
spring months, is very well satisfied with
the progress his charges are making. Four
teams are running through their paces each
afternoon, but the advent of track and base-
ball will cut something of a swath in the
ranks of prospective gridders.

Captain Fraley is assisting Tilson in di-
recting the workouts, and these two are put-
ting their men through a stiff program of
tackling, blocking, passing and kicking, in-
termingling enough plays to enable new
players to become accustomed to varsity
methods. Great stress is being placed on
punting. From present indications, the Wild-
cats will be well fortified in this important
particular when the coming season gets under
way. Mills and Clark, freshmen backs, are
booting the oval far down the field at every
practice.

The linemen sent up by Red Laird give
promise of developing into future Wildcats
who will be able to add much heft to the
forward walls. MacFadyen, Mullins, Bar-
rier, and others are among the big boys
who will try to push present letter men out
of their hard won places along the line.

Practice will probably continue until the
latter part of this month, ending when the
annual Spring Holiday begins.

Changes Recently Made
In Entrance Regulations
Meant To Help Students

Two Units Foreign Language Now
Admit New .Men

CHANGE IN MAJORING

Eighteen Hours Will be Required
on Students Major Subjects—
Faculty Committee Reports

The Executive Committee of the Trustees,
at its recent meeting, approved of certain
changes made in the entrance and graduation
requirements at Davidson, as recommended
by the Faculty after careful study.

Hereafter only two units of foreign lan-
guages will be required for entrance into
the B. S. courses, instead of four units as
heretofore. This does not in any sense lower
the requirements for entrance. Fifteen units
will still be required. This change was made
because some of the best graduates of the best
accredited high schools have not taken four
units of languages. They have taken other
things which they considered of equal or
greater importance. No changes were. made
in the entrance’ requirements to the A.B.
courses.

Beginning with September, 1930, only
twelve semester hours of foreign languages
will be required for graduation in the B.S.
courses. Heretofore 18 hours have been re-
quired in B.S. 1, and twenty-four hours in
B.S. 2. These changes were made in order
that students may have larger liberty in
choosing what they want in the B.S. courses.
No changes were made in the A.B. courses.

Beginning with September, 1930, only
eighteen hours will be required on a student’s
major subject. However, no freshman course
will count on these 18+hours. Heretofore,
twenty-four hours have been’ required on a
major. In addition to the eighteen hours on
the major, twelve additional hours will be
required on one or two minors which are
closely related to the major. These new
rules concerning majoring apply to the A.B.
courses as well as to the B.S. courses. These
changes in reference to majoring were also
made in order that the student might have
larger liberty in chosing the subjects he
wishes in his junior and senior years. Of
course, those students’ who plan to do grad-
uate work in universities should take many
more.than the required hours on their majors.

The total number of semester hours and
points required for graduation have not been
changed. It might interest the students to
know that there are some members of the
Faculty ‘who believe that these should be
increased.

The above changes were not made in any
off-hand way, but only after months of care-
ful study. At the request of the President,
a strong committee of nine from the Faculty,
representing every department, was appointed
in October to study the whole question of
requirements for entrance and graduation.
The committee reported to the Faculty from
time to time. The report of the committee
was finally revised and adopted by the full
Faculty in the latter part of January, and
by the Executive Committee of the Trustees
in February. We. believe that the changes
made constitute a forward step. Other
changes may be made from time to time, as
they may seem necessary in keeping step
with present day progress in education.

W.R. Hill To Attend
R. O. T. C. Conclave

Scott and Blanton Make Talks at
Last Meeting

The main features of the Scabbard and
Blade meeting, held at 8:00 o’clock on
Thursday, February 20, were the appoint-
ment of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel W. R.
Hill as representative to the National R. O.
T. C. Convention with Cadet Captain W. H.
Morrison as his alternate, and the talks by
Colonel Scott and Captain Blanton.

The National R. O, T. C. Convention will
be held this year, at Minneapolis, Minn., on
April 22, 23 and 24. Davidson expects to
be represented as in former years.

Colonel Scott chose as his subject the
inspection which is to take place on April
22 and 23. Captain Blanton interestingly
discussed the development of the Hawaiian
Islands from a historic, economic, and mili-
tary point of view.

After the regular program had been con-
cluded, those’ present were served with light
refreshments. :
