THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1930

Recetit Alumni Marriages

Younger-Schneider

Archibald Lafayette Younger, '17, former-
ly of Charlotte but now of Murphrysboro,
Ill, and Miss Olga Schneider, of Murphrys-
boro, Ill, were married in that city on
Tuesday night, March 4th. Mrs. Young was
graduated from the high school in Mur-
phrysboro, attended the Lutheran School,
and is an accomplished musician, being or-
ganist in the Lutheran Church at that city.
After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Young
completed business courses in séveral north-
ern institutions, including Columbia Univer-
sity. For the past several years he has been
connected with the First National Bank of
Murphrysboro.

When the bride and groom visited David-
son a short time ago, they said they ex-
_bected to have a new location soon, but at
present they are at home at 2120 Elm St.
Murphrysboro, III.

Currie-Ferguson

Rev. William Murphy Currie, ’19, pastor
of the Belmont Presbyterian Church, and
Miss Carmell Ferguson, of Greensboro,
were married Saturday, April 5th. Mrs.
Currie is a graduate of the Greensboro Col-
lege for Women and_ has taught in the
schools of Greensboro for the past several
years. Mr. Currie took his theological work
at Union Seminary at Richmond, studied in
New York later, and has been pastor of the
Belmont Church since April, 1928. The bride
and groom are now on ‘a honeyinoon in

Florida, making the trip in a new car, a

“recent gift to Mr. Currie from the men of

the church.

Doggett-Ruffin

Rev. Marshall Wellington Doggett, Jr.,
"22, formerly of Edenton, but now of Nacog-
doches, Texas, and Miss Mary Louise Ruf-
fin, of Scotland Neck, were married in
Kingsport, Tenn., on Saturday, March lst.
After taking his bachelor and master of
arts degrees at Davidson, Mr. Doggett stud-
ied at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., and went to Edenton as a pas-
tor following the completion of his work.
The couple left for Nacogdoches, Texas, im-
mediately after the ceremony, where Mr.
Doggett has accepted a pastorate.

McCain-Lowry

Dr. Walkup Kennard McCain, ’22, of
Atlantic City, N. J., and Miss Margaret
Carlin Lowry, of Philadelphia, Pa., were
married in the latter city on March 15th.
Mrs. McCain was educated at Kensington
School in Philadelphia, and at the Atlantic
City Hospital. Dr. McCain went to the Uni-
versity of North Carolina for part of his
medical work after he graduated at David-
son, but finished at Jefferson Standard in
Philadelphia. At present he is an interne
at Atlantic City (N. J.) Hospital. The bride
and groom are now at home in that city.

Garrett-Chenevert

Carrington Cabell Garrett, ’23, and Miss
Lillian Chenevert, both of New York City,
were married’ in the metropolis on Febru-
ary 15th. Mr. Garrett, formerly of Laurens,
S. C,, attended Georgia Tech after leaving
Davidson, where he was graduated from the
architectural school. For several years he
‘has been associated with a prominent firm
of architects in New York. Mr. and Mrs.
Garrett are now at home at 156 East 52nd
St., New York, N. Y.

Lothery-Martin

Information was received some time ago
of the marriage of Espy Franklin Lothery,
28, formerly of Cornelius, and Miss Eva
Martin, of Fort Smith, Ark. the marriage
taking place at Memphis, Tenn., on Decem-
ber 2st. Mrs. Lothery was educated at
Arkansas College. Mr. Lothery is now a stu-
dent at Columbia Theological Seminary in

Ormsby-Walton

Announcement was made only a_ short
time ago of the marriage of John Gabriel
Ormsby, ’28, of Wilmington, and Miss Rosa
Anice Walton, of Charlotte, the ceremony
being performed at the First Baptist Church
in Charlotte on Wednesday, November 27th.
Mr. Ormsby has been connected with Belk-
Simpson Company, of Wilmington, since his
graduation in 1928. They are at home at
805 S. Fourth St., Wilmington.

Crawford-Brehm
Announcement came to the altimni office
only a short time ago of the marriage of
William Legare Crawford, Jr., ’29, formerly
of Albany, Ga., but now of Chicago, IL,
to Miss Flora Mildred Brehm, of Lincoln,
Neb., on January 15th. After leaving Da-
vidson, Mr. Crawford worked in various
Gedtgia cities and Jacksonville, Fla., but
last fall became connected with a Chicago
concern. Mr. and Mrs. Crawford are at
home at the Melrose Arms Hotel, Apt. 301,

1636 Melrose Ave., Chicago, TIl.

Holmgreen-Allison

San Antonio, Texas, and Miss [da Williams
Allison, of Charlotte, were married in the
Second Church of the latter
city last night. Mrs. Holmgreen, a gradu-

Presbyterian

ate of: Queens College, was the honoree at
a host of pre-nuptial entertainments since
the announcement was made a month ago.
Mr. Holmgreen returned to his home in San
Antonio after leaving Davidson, where he
has been located for some time. After an
extensive -wedding trip they will be at home
in that city.

WinsionGalem. Alias
At Enthusiastic Dinner

Lack of space in the last several issues
of The Davidsonian has accounted for the
omission of an account of an enthusiastic
and lively meeting of the Winston-Salem
alumni of Davidson College in that city on
Friday,. March 21st, when over 45 former
students of the college met for a dinner-

meeting in the Reynolds Grill.

Attending from Davidson were F. L.
Jackson, treasurer of the college, and W. L.
(Monk) Younger, head coach of Davidson's
athletic teams. The former outlined the
growth-of Davidson, gave. statistics show-
ing its comparative advancement, and dis-
cussed at length the finances of the insti-
tution. Coach Younger talked to the alumni
about the various athletic teams of David-
son, and discussed with them the outlook
of football and other programs for the com-
ing year.

W. H. Neal, ’17, was toastmaster of the
occasion. The alumni at the close of the

le
be

Eugene Adolph Holmgreen, Jr., '29, of,

Unusual Features Will
Draw Davidson Alumni

Two unusual features of the approaching
commencement of Davidson College are be-
ing presented to Davidson alumni by class
presidents and class agents in letters which
are now being sent out through the alumni
office at Davidson, The events listed are the
inauguration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as
President of the college, and the’ dedication
of the new $600,000 Chambers Building.
These letters are going to classmates who
are scheduled to have reunions at the 94th
commencement of the institution.

According to the Dix schedule of reunions,
which was adopted at Davidson several years
ago, classes which re-unite between June
1-4 are 1929, for its “baby” reunion; 1880,
for its 50th year; 1905, for its 25th year,
and the groups of 1914, 1915, 1916, and 1917;
and 1895, 1896, 1897, and 1898. The Class of
1890 is having a special yeunion its fortieth
year out of college.

In addition to the eleven classes which
have specified reunion dates for this year,
a general invitation will later be sent to
the alumni constituency, inviting
them to return and participate in the fes-
tivities of the annual occasion. Commence-

entire

ment crowds at Davidson have been ‘grow-
ing during the past several years, through a
larger return of its former students. With,
the additional attractions of the 1930 com-
mencement, an even larger number are ex-
pected from a wider territory. Last June
Davidson alumni returned from 19 states and
the District of Columbia.

Q

lees

The program thiS year will be a full one.
Rev. Stuart Nye Hutchison, D.D., of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., has accepted an invitation to de-
liver the baccalaureate sermon to the 1930
Davidson graduates. A joint committee of
the faculty and trustees are now working
upon plans for Dr. Lingle’s inauguration
and the dedication of the administration and
classroom building, but they are not yet
ready to make public their choice of speak-
ers for both events. A literary address will
not be made this year, because other exer-
cises replace it.

No change has been made in the time of
the’ annual luncheon and meeting ‘of the
Alumni Association on Tuesday of com-
mencement. The Board of Trustees likewise
have their gathering on the same day. Im-

meeting honored Mr. Neal by selecting him
as president of the chapter; R. S. Halti-
wanger, ‘14, was chosen vice-president, and
M. E. Miller, '26, was selected secretary-
treasurer,

Not only did the two Davidson visitors
speak glowingly of the results of the meet-
ing, but the newspaper accounts spoke en-
thusiastically of the gathering, and letters
received by the alumni secretary since the
dinner from individuals in that city indicate
that the alumni were awakened by this con-
ference and direct word from the college.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

A Man of prayer.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Tt

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President.

Richmond, Virginia.

+

Davidson Alumni Deaths

i |

George Bryan, ’78
George Bryan, member of the Class of
1878, and a widely known lawyer, not only
in Virginia, but throughout America, died
at his home in Richmond, Va., the latter
part of February, following an illness of
several weeks,

Mr. Bryan was born in Allegheny, Pa., on
1860. He attended Davidson
for two years, and later went to Richmond
College, where he obtained the degree of
LL.B. in 1881. In the summer of that year
he attended the law school at the University
Virginia, and was admitted to the bar
the same year. Hampden-Sidney conferred
upon him the honorary degree of doctor of
literature in 1923, and in 1926 he was made
an LL.D. of the University of Richmond.

This Davidson alumnus was well known
as a writer on legal topics, and was editor

February 22,

of

of the Virginia Law Register from 1901
to 1905. He was general counsel for the
Virginia Bankers’ Association, the Union

Bank and Federal Trust Company, and the
Guaranty Trust Company. He served as lec-
turer in the law school of the University of
Richmond, and was a former president of
the Richmond Bar Association, and also the
Virginia Bar Association.

Mr. Bryan visited Davidson in 1928, and
took part in the literary society exercises,
awarding the diplomas. This was his first
return to Davidson since he had left here
in 1876.

J. E. Cousar, 85
Dr. H. M. Stuckey, ’88

Information was recently received in the
alumni office, through the “kindness: of an
alumnus, of the deaths of James English
Cousar, of the Class of 1885, who died at
his home in Bishopville, S. C., Jan. 20, 1929,
and of Dr. Henry Mortimer Stuckey, grad-
uate of 1888, whose death occurred at Sum-
ter, S. C., in 1929. No complete data have
been obtained regarding these two David-
son men. The former is survived by a Da-
vidson atiimnus, Rey. J. F. Cousar, 14, of
St. Afans, W. Va.

Rev. S. B. Lyerly, ’12

Rev. Samuel Badger Lyerly, graduate of
Davidson in 1912, died suddenly at his home
in Charlotte on March 29th, following an
acute heart attack which seized him the
night before. He was only 44 years of age.

The deceased was born at Woodleaf, N.
C., and after his graduation from Davidson
he attended Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., completing his work there

portant matters are to be discussed before
both of these bodies. The largest attendance
ever recorded at a trustee and alumni meet-
ing is predicted here by officials of the col-
lege.

in 1917. Prior to his seminary entrance he
had taught school at Denver and Lagrange.
He ‘served as assistant pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church at Raleigh, and then
went to the Willow Springs Presbyterian
Church, where he was pastor until he went
to Charlotte in 1922 to St. Paul’s Presby-
terian Church. At the time of his death he
was secretary of the Presbyterian Minis-
terial Association in that city.

F. W. Smith, ’22

Fred Watson Smith, graduate of the Class
of 1922, died suddenly at his home in Moores-
ville on March 26th. He was operated on
at a hospital there on March 19th, and on
the day of his death had been dismissed. He
was conveyed to his home and was sitting
at his bedside laughing and joking with
members of his family when he was sud-
denly stricken, death following immediately.

Mr. Smith had been employed for the past
six years by the First National Bank in
Mooresville. He was a prominent young
leader in the business, religious and social
life of that city, and his sudden demise was
a shock to that community.

W. W. Carson

Older alumni of Davidson will regret to
learn of the death of Mr. W. W. Carson,
a former professor of the college, who died
at his home in Knoxville, Tenn:, on Febru-
ary 7, 1930. Although not an alumnus of
the institution, Mr, Carson had always shown
a deep interest in its affairs, and during
the past several years he had written ex-
tensively and glowingly of his happy con-
nection with the college. He liked to be
treated as an alumnus’ of Davidson, and his
loyalty, was always on a parity with that
ot men who had graduated.

TAKING CHANCES.

While traveling you can watch your
baggage—some of the time. While
your effects are away from home being
laundered, pressed, repaired, etc., you
cannot watch them.

When losses occur!’ save annoyance

and delay in recovering therefor by
having Personal Effects insurance. We
should appreciate an opportunity to ex-

plain this protection.

@ It’s safer.to have insuranec— ?
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.

Insurance D at

epartmen
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

weight to suit you in HANES.

' . SATISFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon.: White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs,

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

there's a style and

