THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

Two Games Will Test
Strength of Unknown
Wildcat Baseball Club

Batting Power and Fielding Are
Unknown Quantities This Year

OUTFIELD IS WEAK SPOT
Few Veterans Return—Mound Staff

is Strong With Three Regular
Pitchers

The showing of Monk Younger’s David-
son College Wildcats in their two opening
tilts today and tomorrow is going to be
watched by everyone interested in them, for
these two games will answer a number of
anxious questions concerning the 1930 ag-
gregation. No one knows definitely how the
team is going to be this year. So many
changes have been necessary to form a club
that no advance dope is likely to hold.

The first question that will come up is how
are they going to hit. Last year the hitting
of the team as a whole was the weakest
department of play. An excellent pitching
staff, and an air-tight infield kept the scores
of the opponents down to a very low average,
and yet games were frequently lost because
of a missing punch at the plate. This lack
of hitting was especially noticeable in the
pinches, when men would die on the paths
for the lack of a little bingle to send them
home. If this year’s team is counting on put-
ting the games in the win column, they are
not only going to have to hit harder and
more frequently than was the custom last
year, but they are going to have to bunch
their clouts where they will do the most
good.

The boys who are patrolling the outer
gardens are giving Monk Younger more
trouble this year than usual. Whiz Millér is
the only veteran outfield on hand, and he has
been placed in center field. John McInnis
can be used when he is not in the box, but
from present prospects, it looks like he is
going to be so much in demand as a hurler
that he will not be able to work in the field.
“Hub” Covington seems likely to draw one
of the flanks, and Doc Mathis may get the
other.. However, these two men are not up
to the standard set by last last years fielders,
either in hitting or fielding, and will have to
improve a lot to reach that plane. If the
fly-chasing problem could be settled satis-
factorily, the club would have a bulwark to
fall back on in case of weakness in other
departments.

In the infield, Bill Goodson isthe only
veteran on hand. The hard-hitting keystone
sacker had a successful season last summer
in semi-pro ball, and bidg”fair to be one of
the most valuable men on the team this year.
Jimmy Proctor has been moved in from the
field to take Pat Crawford’s place at first
base, and these two Lincolnton products
seem able to take care of the right side of
the infield in a suitable manner.

But moving over on the left side, it is a
very different story. Here is where the weak-
ness, if any, is going to crop out. Bub Bern-
hardt, of the diminutive size, is making a
strong bid for’the short stop position. But
his size is a distinct handicap. His work last
year on the Fresh team shows he has over-
come this to. some extent. However, line
drives are apt to go over him, and he may
not be able to cover all the ground around
his place a man half a foot taller could take
in. If he comes through in spite of his size,
he will make a good short stop, because he
can handle the ball, once he get his hands
on it.

Red Parrish has been working out most
of the time at the hot corner. He has been on
the squad for the last two years, but has
been unable to win a permanent place. He
bids fair to letter at third base this year,
appearing to be the best of the lot of con-
testants. McMillan is pushing both Bern-
hardt and Parish for positions, being able to
play either place in more or less accepted
style.

The pitching staff presents still another
enigma, Capt. Doc’’Kugler gives Coach
Younger one dependable hurler, McInnis
can generally be relied upon, and Lefty
Thompson is expected to come through to
make a third hurler. Henderson, Curdts, and
Croker have not yet shown the stuff to be-
come regulars; This gives a three-man pitch-
ing staff to work with, which is hardly as
large as could be desired for safety. How-
‘ever, if each pitches the brand of ball ex-
pected, they will be enough. The games on
successive days this week will be the acid
test for the pitchers. If they stand up under
it, the hurling staff will cease to become a
major problem.

The catchers’ seem to be the one spot to
cause the cockles of a coach’s heart to glow.
Armfield held the position all right last
year. Gladstone has improved a good deal in
hitting, and is pushing him harder this year.

Seminary Staff Has
Four Davidson Men

The Faculty of Union Theological Semi-
nary is composed entirely of. graduates of
Hampden-Sydney and Davidson Colleges
and the division between the two groups is
almost even, an associate professor being
the unbalancing quantity. There are four
professors from each institution. These men
have been chosen as‘ Union instructors be-
cause they have distinguished themselves as
pastors, preachers, authors and scholars, and
have withal qualities which make seminar-
ians eager to become students with them.

From Hampdén-Sydney are: Dr. Thomas
Cary Johnson, Professor of Theology, emi-
nent as teacher and author; Dr. Eugene C.
Caldwell, Professor of New Testament Exe-
gesis and Interpretation, scholar and inspir-
ing teacher; Dr, E. T. Thompson, outstand-
ing thinker and leader of. the church, Profes-
sor of Church History; and Dr. J. Gray
McAllister, former president of Hampden-

The added competition has apparently raised
the grade of Nab’s work, and has made the
backstop place the best cared-for of the nine.

The Wildcats present a big question mark
to the dopester at present. Their Work this
week-end will shed lots of light on the sea-
son’s real prospets. The fielding should im-
prove as the season grows older. If the pitch-
ing and hitting come up to the standard
hoped for, Davidson will be a big dose for
any teams they may meet by midseason.

Golf Team Determined
By Elimination Contest

Eight prospective candidates for the
college golf team journeyed to Charlotte
last Tuesday and played 36 holes, 18 in
the morning and 18 in the afternoon, in
competition for qualifying for the four
places on the team.

The four men making the lowest
scores were: Captain Jack Pepper who
led with 160, Jack Wagner followed
closely with 161. John Thompson was next
with 178, while W. Lewis Hart made 182.

The first three named have been as-
sured places on the team while the fourth
position which is held by Hart will be
open to challenge until the first match.

The men eligible to challenge Hart for

Sydney, distinguished teacher and scholar,
Professor of the English Bible.

Davidson graduates are: President Ben
R. Lacy, Professor of Homiletics, distin-
guished preacher and executive; Dr. Edward
Mack, one of the greatest Old Testament
scholars in this country; Dr. W. T. Thomp-
son,. Professor of Religious Education, an
authority and leader in this field; Dr. Don-
ald W. Richardson, Professor of Christian
Missions, former president of the Presbyter-
ian Theological® Seminary in China; and
Rev. D. Rolston Bitzer, associate professor
of Hebrew and Greek, who, in an-adept and
sympathetic manner, explains to Juniors the
meanings of various symbols in an ancient
and mysterious language.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the ‘right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Assistants To Lead
Cheers This Spring

According to a report from George E.

McClenaghan, newly elected varsity
cheer leader, the Sophomore assistant
cheer leaders will be given their first

chances to perform at the baseball games

the fourth place are Tom Bowles with
186, Tom Caldwell 194, John D. McCon-
nell 196, and N. C, Hodgin with 201. Very
unfavorable winds and unusually fast
greens gave the golfers no little trouble
in their elimination play.

which will begin here Thursday. The
freshmen will have their opportunities at
the freshman baseball games. “

The following men have been having
practice each evening at the gymnasium
under the direction of McClenaghan:
Henry McKinnon, Bryce Robinson, Ed
Goreham, Benny Mosely, Rosser, Elkins,
John T. Walsh, Bob Torrence, Robert
Davis, Norman Raies.

As this will be the first appearance of
these men the sympathetic co-operation
of the entire student body will be appre-
ciated. Elections of the assistants will
probably be held immediately after the
first football game next fall.

how to represent Him.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

Acquainted with God and his ways, and know

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

~~

2

For Catalog and Information, Address,

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

+

...1N a cigarette i

MenrIr Is SURE to rise.” Make a cigarette of
better quality, of richer aroma and finer fra-
grance — and all the world will find it out.
Witness Chesterfield’s popularity, growing
every day. No flash in the pan, but enduring
popularity— earned by giving smokers the

one thing they want:

“TASTE above everything ”

C

© 1929, Liccerr & Myers Toracco Co.

MILD . |.

On the screen s(H A RM/

. and yet
THEY SATISFY

hesterfield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

