BASEBALL EASTER
MONDAY TENNIS STARS
WINS °
DAVIDSON STATE TOURNEY
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” '
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 17, 1930 No. 25

Dr. Anderson Explains Purpose
And Means of Prayer in Talk to

Crowd of Students Monday

The Four Vital and All-Important
Features of Ooe Are Pointed
t

Dr. W. M. Anderson, delivering his first
main lecture of this year’s Life Service Se-
ries Monday night, chose as his subject,
“Prayer.” He gave as the background of his
talk the misconceptions that many people
have of prayer and rounded it off with say-
ing: “Prayer is a supreme privilege which
God has given and the function of this priv-
ilege is man’s, and God wants him to exer-
cise it.” He said that it was God’s will that
man should always pray and not think.

“What is the process of a real prayer?”
he asked his interested audience. ‘Prayer is
making known to God the wants and im-
pulses of man, and leaving them to the will
of God.” ‘Many people,” said he, “seem to
pray only in rotation and when a trial comes
and the need of prayer is essential, they
are found lacking.”

. He gave four points that every man ought
to carry out when he goes into communi-
cation with God. These four points are as
follows: (1) You cannot pray for anything
without first taking your hands off the thing
entirely and turning it over to God, asking
Him to take complete hold of it. (2) Pray.
in Jesus’ name, but do not use this name
as a hook by which you seek to catch God
and therefore be sure of an answer. We
stand in God’s presence without the claim
of a single thing except that, through Jesus,
we can meet the Father. In order to pray
in Jesus’ name, we must first belong to
Jesus and stand in His name as we pray.
(3) When you have submitted the entire sit-
uation to the care of God, stand in Jesus’
name and ask for anything you want. Prayer
has no limit; you can ask God for anything
and should ask Him for what you want.

“There is no need to beat around the
bush,” he said, “for God knows what you
want and what you need and He wants
straightforwardness. Can a man pray about
a sport he is interested in?” he asks. “If a
man cannot pray about a clean sport he
is interested in, he cannot know God's will
and what God thinks of his undertaking.
(4) Be content with whatever the answer
may be, whether it satisfies or not, for God
knows best. Men of college age are not
easily contented, but as they advance in
years they will realize the value and peace
of being content with God’s answer.

“Does God answer prayer?” he placed
as his last query. “Emphatically ves. The
answers to prayer have been evidenced at
all times. By a score of inexplicable facts,
answers to prayer -haye come from God to
prayers for definite things.”

Cats Place In Five
Events At Atlanta
Team Obtains Thirteen Points at

Tech Relays, While Captain
Whittle Gets Eight

Davidson’s track team, represented by
Captain Whittle, Brohard, McCall, Lafferty,
Norton, George, and Neal, proved to be one
of the dark horses in the Georgia Tech re-
lays, held in Atlanta last Saturday, tying
for fourth place in the meeting by unoffi-
cial scores and placing in five separate events,
taking one first, two seconds, and two thirds.
They piled up a total of thirteen points.
This was a remarkable showing for the
Wildcats, especially considering the small
number of men competing and the quality
of the teams opposing them.

Whittle, taking eight points, was high
scorer for the ’Cats and one of the high
scorers of the meet. He took first in the
high hurdles, breaking the college record,
which he held before, with the time of 15.5
seconds, by running them in 15.02 seconds.
The Wildcat captain also took second in the
lows, and broke the previous college record
of 25 with a time of 24.7. George took third
in the highs, giving Davidson two out of
three places in this event.

(Continued on page 6)

Retiring Editor

Zeb V. Long, who retires from the
Editorship of The Davidsonian with
this issue.

Long Ends His Term.
As Editor-In-Chief

Davidsonian Carried Through Suc-
cessful Year by Statesville Man

With this issue of the paper, Zeb V. Long,
Jr., of Statesville, retires as Editor-in-Chief
of The Davidsonian. Students will recollect
that Long took charge of the weekly directly
after his election last spring. He succeeded
A. N. Brown, of Mineral Wells, Texas.

During his term of office, Long made
some decided, although not drastic, changes
in the style and general make-up of The
Davidsonian. Chief among these was the
difference in size of the sheet. The paper
at the present time has a five-column page
in contrast to the six-column one of last
This deviation resulted in a corre-
sponding contrast of headlines which per-
mitted better balance and a more uniform
appearance.

year.

Two outstanding policies were adopted
under the editorship of Long, and they are
as follows: First, athletics were given more
consideration than they had received ifi for-
mer years. Not only was there the usual
sports page, but athletic items were scattered
throughout the paper. All major contests
were given positions of prominence on the
front page. Second, the entire publication
was sub-divided into distinct departments or
sections. Sports, alumni, and features, all
claimed their own rights as far as space and
expense would permit.

Several more detailed ideas were intro-
duced, some of them mechanical and others
of a more noticeable nature. The motto,
“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas,” was sub-
stituted for the former inscription, ‘For a
Bigger and Better Davidson.” Attractive
title captions for columns were instituted
as well as the streamer entitled “The Wild
cat Lair” for the sports page. These were
designed by a local artist.

In his editorials, Long has allowed him-
self a considerable degree of freedom, Not
only has he dealt with campus problems,
but be has also gone farther afield into
national and international affairs. While not

(Continued on page 6)

Lingle To Deliver U.N.C.

accalaureate Sermon

Dr. Walter Lingle has accepted an invi-
tation to deliver the baccalaureate sermon
at the commencement of the University of
North Carolina on June 8 at 11 A. M. Dr.
Lingle made his first contact with the Uni-
versity in 1892, when he was a Senior at
Davidson. He was chosen as the man to rep-
resent Davidson in deputation work, ,and
as a result, was the speaker in the Y. M.
C. A. vesper service. :

In addition to his engagement at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina commencement
exercises, Dr. Lingle will speak at various
colleges and high schools during the latter
part of May and the beginning of June. On
May 21 he will go to Red Spfings to de-
liver an address to’ the graduating class of
Flora. Macdonald College, but because of
previous engagements, he was forced to de-
cline an invitation for the Auburn com-
mencement.

“Y” Cabinet Installation

Services Will Be Held
In Chambers Sunday

Newly Elected Officers Are Dean

Rusk, Robert F. N@rton, and
Roger P. Entoe ;

VESPER HOUR IS TIME

Fifteen New Cabinet Members to
Take Part in Ceremonies

Installation of the officers of the Y. M.
C. A. and the members of the “Y” Cabinet
will be held at the vesper service next Sun-
day evening at 6 o'clock in Chambers Audi-
torium. Dean Rusk, newly elected president,
and Robert F. Norton and Roger P. Enloe,
next year’s vice-presidents, with fifteen new-
ly appointed cabinet members will take part
in the ceremonies.

This service will be the annual Easter
vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. and will
feature special music, greatly resembling
the Christmas program. Members of the
Glee Club with several talented ladies of the
town will,render an impressive song serv-
ice somewhat along the line of the one pre-
sented last year at this season, stated Fred
Poag, who is in charge of the program.

Passages of Scripture will be read, fol-
lowed by special songs, to portray the Tri-
umphal Entry, Last Supper, Crucifixion, and
Resurrection of Jesus Christ. The ‘Conse-
cration will conclude the program, at which
time next year’s officials will be installed.

This is one of the outstanding vesper pro-
grams of the year and an unusually large
crowd is expected. to attend the meeting.

Seniors Promoting
Students Ceremony

Impressive Installation of New
Leaders Planned

Plans have been discussed by the Senior
Class and will soon be presented to the stu-
dent body whereby a mammoth student body
meeting, featuring an impressive ceremony,
inspirational addresses and a complete ban-
quet will be observed as the installation
service for new officers and leaders of col-
lege activities for the ensuing year. As soon
as the remaining elections are run off and
the new student council chosen, the entire
project will be submitted to the members
of the student body.

It is the purpose of the Seniors to make
this meeting a great time of reconsecration
to the ideals that are a part of Davidson.
The spirit of the Wildcat will be empha-
sized and the elements of the honor system
will be brought before the students again.
It is felt that such a gathering, suffused
with the real spirit of Davidson, will be
most effective in drawing men into a closer
relationship with the college and with each
other, and it is for this reason that the out-
going Seniors wish to promote’ such an en-
terprise. They feel that the occasion will
long be remembered as a time when David-
son's best qualities were vitalized. Similar
student programs have been executed in
years gone by with tremendous success, but

(Continued on page 6)

Senior Class
Nominations

Election of President for the
Senior Class for the coming year
was officially started Monday morn-
ing with the announcement of nom-
inations made by the committee.
Those nominated by the committee
were R. M. King, Albert McClure,
J. A. Jones, D. S. Lafar, W. W.
Fraley was nominated from the
floor.

Other classes were expected to
follow the example of the rising
Senior Class, by running off their
election this week.

As the election had not been com-
pleted when The Davidsonian went
to press, the results of the balloting
cannot be given in this edition.

U ssosacscassssassssssasssasassssaaaasssseea4|

J. Wilson McCutchan Elected
Editor of Davidsonian forCom-

ing Year After 3 Ballots are Cast

Next Year’s Editor

J. Wilson McCutchan, newly elected
Editor of The Davidsonian

Mu Beta Psi Brings
Organist To Campus

Miss Nella Sharpe, of Statesville, post-
graduate student at Queens College, will
present an organ recital at Davidson this
evening at 8:15 o'clock. The program will
be rendered in the auditorium of new
Chambers. She will be assisted by Miss Mir-
iam Murphy, violinist, and Dr. J. R. Nin-
niss, accompanist.

The appointment of Miss Sharpe to an as-
sistantship in music at Queens was very re-
cently announced by Dr. J. R. Ninniss, head
of the music department at the college. She
was graduated at the institution last year,

with both A.B. and B.S. degrees. This
year she is studying post-graduate work
there.
The program will be as follows:
Prelude and Fugue in D Major------ Bach
L’Allegro
Miss Sharpe
Concerto in D Minor-------------- Tartini
Miss Murphy
(a) The Rippling Brook.---.------ Gillette
(QOD ICH asset eeceeree Stoughton
(c) Minuet Antique ~------------- Watling
(d) Concerto Gregoriano.------------- Yon
Introduzione ed Allegro
(ce) Adagio
Scherzo
Finale
Miss Sharpe
(a) Canzonetta, Opus 6, d’ Ambrosio
(bh) 2Obertess! su seseu- faces cee. Wieniawski
Miss Murphy
American Rhapsody_------------------ Yon

Miss Sharpe

The recital is being sponsored by Mu Beta
Psi, musical fraternity here, and is free to
the public.

Reporters Club Issues
Bids To Sixteen Writers

The “Reporters’ Club” held a short, . but
important meeting Monday evening at 8
P. M. and issued bids to a number of Da-
vidsonian workers whom they thought
worthy to become members of their group.
The new members were chosen because of
their journalistic ability, and because of
their consistent and unselfish work in the
publishing of the college paper. They will
be formally initiated on Friday night at 9
P. M. in the Scabbard and Blade Hall. This
initiation will be followed by the election of
next year’s officers and the serving) of re-
freshments.

Those who received bids were as follows:
R. H. Alderman, G. E. Bailey, J. E. Boyd,
E. O. Guerrant, J. E. Lake, D. D. McBryde,
R. L. McCallie, G. Miller, W. F. Mulliss,
C: F. Myers, H. F. Nichols, S. P. Preston,
N. Raies, R. B. Sugg, B. B Tayior, and
W B.. Ward.

New Publication Head is Prominent
in Campus Literary and Dramatic
Activities

J. Wilson McCutchan, of Warm Springs,
Va., has been elected Editor-in-Chief of The
Davidsonian for the coming year. He is well
known through the prominence he has at-
tained in the campus literary activities, be-
ing a managing editor of the publication
this year. He has contributed his column,
“Cosmic. Chaos,” for the past two years. He
has been also the Short Story Editor of the
Chameleon, and last year wrote one section
of the Wildcat handbook.

Many will remember McCutchan on ac-
count of his work in the Red and Black
Masquers. He took a prominent part in
“Wapping » Wharf” and his play, entitled
“Octoroon,” was recently presented here, and
well received. He is a member of Delta Pi
Kappa, the honorary journalistic fraternity
of the campus. Among the other honors he
has attained are: Sigma Upsilon, honorary
literary fraternity, I. R. C., and wearer of
the golden quill.

Three ballots were cast to determine the
Editor-in-Chief. On the first ballot, W. C.
Ragin, of Wilmington, N. C., -was eliminat-
ed. Ragin was vice-president of the Report-
ers’ Club, Delta Pi Kappa, Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, the honorary. chemical fraternity,
Le Cercle Francais, honorary French club.
He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity. He was also,on the honor
roll.

J. B. Black was the next eliminated. He
is a member of the Davidson College Dra-
matic Club, Delta Pi Kappa, Sigma Upsilon
and Eta Sigma Phi. He was also on the
honor roll and a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

Finally, on the third ballot, Paul Alder-
man, Alcolu, S. C., was. eliminated. Delta
Pi Kappa, junior basketball manager, and
Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity are among
the honors that he has attained.

Tenn Squad Plays
In Carolina Tourney

Chapel Hill is Scene of Annual Net
Clashes

On the University of North Carolina’s
campus at Chapel Hill today and tomorrow
the North Carolina State Tennis Tourna-
ment will be continued. There will be five
teams of the State represented at this tour-
nament. They are Davidson, Duke, Carolina,
State, and Wake Forest. Each one of these
teams with the single exception of Wake
Forest wil send six men to the meet.

This tournament is held yearly at Chapel
Hill to determine the best college player
and players in the State. The first and sec-
ond rounds of the tournament will probably
be played on Wednesday ; the quarter-finals
and the semi-finals on Thursday ; and the
finals on Friday afternoon. Davidson has
entered in many of these meets but in the
last few years they have failed to break
through and win the finals. Last year and
the year before last Davidson won every one
of its matches up to the time ofthe tourna-
ment, but failed to win it. Last year Caro-
lina won both the singles and the doubles,
while the year before they won the doubles
while Duke was capturing the singles. Last
season Frontis Johnston, the captain of this
year’s team, reached the semi-finals only to
lose out in a hard-fought battle to the ulti-
mate winner of the tournament. In 1927,
J. T. Roddey, captain of. last year’s team,
went to the finals in both the singles and
the doubles. He lost in the singles only after
a very hard-fought match. In the doubles
he was paired with Carr and they were over-
come in a heart-breaking match. As a whole
Davidson seems to have been very successful
in its attempts on the court in the past years
and it is hoped by its followers that they
will be as successful this year.

Before the tournament, however, the team
played two matches, one with Carolina. The

(Continued on page 6)
