THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

TWELVE ALUMNI DEATHS

Since Last Issue of This Paper Was Published in the Spring Twelve
Alumni Have Died

Since the last spring issue of The David-
sonian, 12 Davidson College alumni have
been claimed by death. Below is given a
short resume of their lives:

Rev. J. R. Jacobs, ’73

Rev. James Ripley Jacobs died at his home
in Marfa, Texas, May 23rd, after a lingering
illness of many months. He was 82 years
old when he died, and had not been active
for several years. The deceased was in the
1873 class at Davidson, and completed his
ministerial training at Columbia Theological
Seminary, Columbia, S. C. With the ex-
ception of one period in his life when he
held a pastorate in South Carolina, he was
connected entirely with churches in Texas.

Rev. James Lapsley, ’80

Rey. James Lapsley suffered a paralytic
stroke on July 29, and died the following day
at the home of his son in Craigsville, Va.
The day before he was stricken, he attended
a meeting of the Presbytery in that section,
and appeared as well as usual. Mr. Lapsley
was in the class of 1880 at Davidson, and
after feavying here attended Union Theolog-
ical Seminary at Richmond. He had held
pastorates in Alabama, Kentucky, North
Carolina and Virginia, his last charge being
at Williamsville, Va.

J. K. Glasgow, ’90
Joseph Kennedy Glasgow, 1890 Davidson
graduate, died in a Charlotte hospital June
13, at the age of 75 years. His home was
in Davidson. After completing his work at
Davidson, he taught school for a number of
years in South Carolina, but returned to his
native home and operated a dairy adjoining
the campus. Among his survivors is B. W.

Glasgow, ’91, of Dallas, Texas.

Rev. T. H. Newkirk, ’90
Rev. Timothy Haywood Newkirk, aged
74, member of the 1890 class at Davidson,
died in a hospital at Hannibal, Mo., on Au-
gust 30th. His home was at Perry, Mo. He
left Davidson and went to Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va., graduating there
in 1891. The deceased held several pastorates
in North Carolina, and later went to South
Carolina and Georgia as a minister. In 1912
he went to Corder, Mo., remaining there un-
til 1927, when he became pastor at Perry,
Missouri.
J. E. Thompson, 98
Joseph Evans Thompson died in Wilming-
ton on July 6th, after a brief illness. He
was in the class of 1898, and leaving here,
he went to Wilmington, where he entered
the newspaper field as a reporter, and rose
to be vice-president and general ‘manager
of The Wilmington Morning Star. In 1919,
he sold his interest in the paper and en-
tered the insurance business, where he re-
mained until he was chosen city commissioner
of finance in 1921. He was re-elected in 1925,
-But retired in 1929, becoming editor and part
owner of The News-Dispatch, now known
as The Wilmington News.

G. E. Hughey, 03
George Elbertus Hughey, 1903 alumnus of
Davidson, died at his home in Statesville
on October Ist, at the age of 50, Mr. Hughey
entered Davidson from Statesville, and when

™N,
\)

Complete Service

forSchool Publications

where he was a banker most of the time.
He was assistant cashier of the Commercial
National Bank at Statesville for many years,
and three and a half years ago resigned.
Since then, he had managed the Dixie Motor
Company, of Taylorsville, but maintained his
residence in Statesville.

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, ’04

Rey. Richard Thomas Gillespie, D.D., died
suddenly in Charlottesville, Va., on May
30th, following a two-day illness. He had
been attending the General Assembly meet-
ing there. Dr. Gillespie was 50 years old
at the time of his death, and was virtually
in the prime of his service to the church.
Graduating at Davidson in 1904, he attend-
ed Columbia Theological Seminary at Co-
lumbia, S. C. Completing his work there,
he held pastorates at Florence, S. C., and
Louisville, Ky., and when his seminary
Alma Mater called him to the presidency
in 1925, he accepted the offer. He was active
in church endeavor throughout the South,
and stood high in the estimation of the Gen-
eral Assembly.

(Continued on page 6)

1910 Football

For 20 years the football used in
the 6-0 victory of Davidson over the
University of North Carolina in
1910, has been stored away. But
through the kindness of the one
who had it in his possession, the
football has been sent to Davidson
College athletic authorities, and it
is being prepared for exhibition to
all of the Davidson alumni return-
ing here on Home-Coming Day,
October 25th, and particularly for
the covetous eyes of members of
‘that famous state championship
team.

“Doc” Charlie, the Wildcat train-
er, is shellacing the football and
stuffing it so that it will have the
appearance of an inflated football.
Some students at Davidson will be
asked to print upon it the score of
the game, and the date of the con-
test. It will perhaps be on display in
the alumni office, except when the
1910 team has its banquet, when it
will no doubt be a center-piece.

Lunsford Richardson, ’14, right
end, picked up a fumble in the
opening minutes of the second half,
and raced for the lone touchdown
of the game,

| Dr. Neal Anderson

Used by courtesy of The Winston-Salem
Journal

Dr. Neal Anderson Has
Retired From Ministry

His Serious Illness of the Past Sum-
mer is Direct Cause of This
Action

Of universal interest to Davidson College
alumni, and to the Southern. Presbyterian
Church, was the anthouncement made through
The Winston-Salem Journal last week that
Dr. Neal L. Anderson, ’85, pastor of the
Independent Presbyterian Church at Savan-
nah, Ga., had resigned his pastorate after
13 years of labor in that city.

Dr. Anderson was seriously ill during the
summer months, and while his improvement,
according to his letter of. resignation, “has
been steady, progressive and most satisfac-
tory,” he had been advised by his physicians
not to return to active service in the imme-
diate future. His resignation was to take
effect immediately.

This well known minister graduated at
Davidson in 1885, and after teaching at Clin-
ton, N. C., he entered Princeton Theological
Seminary, where—his_ ministry preparation
was completed, He returned to Clinton, N.
C., as a pastor, later going to churches in
Winston-Salem and Montgomery, Ala. He
served one year as president of Austin The-
ological Seminary, Austin, Texas, and re-
signed to accept the call to the Independent
Presbyterian Church in Savannah.

As a member of the Board of Trustees
of’ Davidson for many years, he made valu-
able contributions to his Alma Mater, and
was largely instrumental in the fashioning
of a new constitution for the board. Dr. An-

Se nn mn
: WEEK-END TRIPS

I Can be made economically in a well equipped

E U-Drive-It Ford from—

: HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION
Senn

The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in
the Two Carolinas

At Your Service
ZORIC CLEANING

by
DOMESTIC LAUNDRY

“Poon” Hancock

Representatives
210 Watts

“Dus” Enochs:

=——

Fifty

Nineteen Different Classes Over
Period of 26 Years Are Repre-
sented by the 63 Students

TEN PER CENT OF ENROLL-
MENT

One Alumnus Has Two Sons and a
Daughter Here—Several Have
Two Sons

With each succeeding year the number of
alumni sons attending Davidson College in-
creases. Several years ago a check-up re-
vealed that approximately 45 sons of former
students of the college wet enrolled at the
institution of their fathers. A new zenith
was reached, however, this year, when the
compilation made in the office of the alumni
secretary showed that 62 sons and one daugh-
ter of 55 alumni were in the 1930-1931 stu-
dent body. This is over ten per cent of the
enrollment.

Nineteen different ciasses are represented
over a period of 26 years, extending from
1883 to 1909. The class of 1901 leads with
the greatest number, nine sons and a daugh-
ter in Davidson; the class of 1899 is next
with seven; 1905 and 1900 have five each;
while the classes of 1895, 1896, and 1908
have four each. The remaining number are
scattered over the fathers’ classes of 1883,
1893, 1894, 1897, 1898, 1902, 1903, 1904, 1906,
1907, and 1909.

1 J. R. Caldwell, ’01, has the honor of hav-
ing three children in Davidson—two sons
and a daughter. Alumni having two boys
here are Dr. J. M. Covington, 1900; Rey.
C. S. Matthews, D.D., 95; Rev. J. K. Park-
er, 08; Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., ’05;

derson is also an inventor, having"perfected
the Anderson electric return carriage on
the Underwood typewriter.

For the time being Dr. Anderson will not
be very active in church endeavor. He has ac-
cepted an invitation, however, to speak be-
fore the joint meeting of the Synods of
South Carolina and Georgia at Presbyterian
College, Clinton, S. C., at its sessions to
be held there soon.

-Five Alumni Have
63 Children in Davidson

Rev. C. H. Little, 96, and the late Rev.
S. W. DuBose, ’97.

Ten of these men have had 12 other sons
who attended Davidson. Dr. J. M. McCon-
nell, "99, and John D. Baker, ’86, have al-
ready had two sons graduate besides the
one now in college, and others who have had
boys at Davidson include Rev. J. W. Laf-
ferty, 83; R. S. Steele, 98; Rev. P. C. Du-
Bose, ’02; Dr. C. C. Orr, 95; E. T. Me-
Keithen, 06; Rev. W. M. Hunter, ’93; R. S.
Abernethy, ’99, and the late Rev. S. W.
DuBose, '97.

The alumni secretary does not guarantee
that the list below is absolutely accurate.
The compilation was made upon his knowl-
edge of Davidson alumni, and not through
an individual survey of the student body.
Whatever errors occur, or what omissions
are made, will be rectified and included in
later editions of The Davidsonian. His find-
ings are as follows:

1883—Rev. J. W. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.

1886—John D. Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.

1893—Rev. W. M. Hunter, Davidson.

1894—Dr. G. A. Brown, Mt. Ulla, and R.
H. Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.

1895—Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D. (2),
Lumberton; Dr. C. C. Orr, Asheville, and
Dr. A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.

1896—Rev. C. H. Little (2), Charlotte;
Judge John W. Dodge, Jacksonville, Fla.,
and Dr. G. M. Maxwell, Roanoke, Va.

1897—The late Rev. S. W. DuBose (2), :
and E. H. Harrison, Salisbury.

1898—R. B. Sanford, Mocksville, and R.
S. Steele, Lafayette, Ga.

1899—J. M. Harris, Rome, Ga.; Dr. A. A.
McFadyen, China; Dr. J. M. McConnell,
Davidson; Rev. A. M. McLauchlin, Chester,
S. C.; R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla. ;
Dr. H. S. Munroe, -Charlotte, and S. A.
Robinson, Gastonia. :

1900—Dr. J. M. Covington (2), Wades-
boro; Rev. E. B. Robinson, Talladega, Ala. ;
Fred L. Smyre, Gastonia, and Rev. J. E.
Flow, D.D., Davidson. .

1901—J. R. Caldwell (3), Davidson; W.
B. McClintock, Charlotte; R. T. Faucette,
Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rev. E. W. Phifer,

(Continued 6n page 6)

IS

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

ria

is

Tana

Recommended by
The English Department of

° Davidson College

WEBSTER’S
COLLEGIATE

The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S
NEw INTERNATIONAL— The “Supreme Authority”, Here is
a companion for your hours of reading and study that will Prove its
real value every time you consult it, A wealth
of ready information on words, persons, places,
pany yore 106,000 words and

nunciations, and use inits 1,256 pages.

1,700 illustrations. Includes dic- _
tionaries of biography and geog-

See It at Your College Bookstore
Wiriaforinformahereeene.” Zs
lishers. Free specimen pages
if you name this paper.

“Ny,
i

e.

‘
N

, etymologies, pro-

@. ‘tenes Co. |
ae

C:72-a
