THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

Books We Have Read

Dracula—By Bram Stoker. Doubleday,
Page and Company, Garden City, N. Y.
Price $1.00.

Since the play was brought from Lon- |

don (where it played four consecutive
years) to the American stage, interest in
this formerly obscure book and in the
subject treated has been greatly aug-
mented.

Vampires! We dare say few people have

a clear understanding of exactly what the
word means. According to superstitition
prevalent in many ages and countries,
vampires are ghosts of spirits of dead
persons which issue forth by night and
such the blood of living persons. He may
not appear in human form, but can as-
sume the shape of a dog, wolf, bat, or any
blood-sucking animal. The victim loses
appetite, waste away, and after a few
days expires without any visible disease.
The corpse of the destroyer being thus
supplied remains pliable and_ likelike.
When the body of a ghoul is examined in
the grave the cheeks are found full, and

the white skin appears ruby-red: under- |

neath; the mouth is redder than ever,
and often one may see on the lips gouts
of the victim’s fresh blood. The deep-
burning, eyes, for such do they appear,
seem set in swollen flesh, for the lids
and pouches underneath are greatly
bloated. It seems as if the whole awful
creature is simply gorged with blood.

Such a belief in vampires has existed in
various parts of the world for hundreds
of years, The belief has been treated by
Philostratus and Phlegon of Tralles; has
served a literary purpose in Goethe’s
“Braut von Korinth,” and the operas of
Palma. While seemingly a primitive and
savage superstition, it has survived in
many forms. It is an established fact that
in 1870-71 there were several trials for
vampirism in West Prussia and Mecklen-
burg. During 1730-35 all Europe was filled
with reports of these horrible ghouls.
Today the superstitition continues to ex-
ist among the Slavic and other races of
the Lower Danube.

Bram Stoker, realizing the existing be-
lief, and general interest in this subject,
presents most vividly his novel. It is not
a story built by atmosphere as is “The
Turning of the Screw” of Henry James,
but rather it is a presentation of fearfully
definite events portrayed in rapid suc-
cession one after the other.

A young solicitor, Jonathan Harker,
travels into the heart of the Carpathian
Mountains of Translyvania to explain to
a Count Dracula, certain details concern-
ing a recently purchased estate. One has
an early premonition of evil, and, on see-
ing the harrowing experiences Mr. Hark-
er must endure, can easily forgive him
when, like, Hamlet, he prays for the
angels and ministers of grace to defend
him.

Soon it is that the fiendish deeds of
Count Dracula’are turned toward London,
and one finds the whole human race in
grave danger. It is here the attacks and
terrible effects of the vampire upon his
victim are seen. Slowly, bit by bit, the
life of the unfortunate is drained until
finally the victim becomes a living dead,
become an Un-Dead. When he becomes
such there comes with the change a
curse of immortality; he cannot die, but
must go on age after age adding new
victims and multiplying the evils of the
world.”

“We thought her dying whilst she slept,
And sleeping when she died.”

Dracula is a superbly constructed novel.
Step by step the plot progresses and fi-
nally develops into three distinct crises.

Mr. Stoker paints many interesting pic-
tures of the peoples and their customs
throughout Transylvania. He tells us that
there are four distinct nationalities in this
principality, namely Saxons, Wallachs,
Magyars, and Szekelys. The strangest fig-
ures throughout this distict were the men,
dressed as they were in big cowboy hats,
great baggy dirty-white trousers, white
linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather
belts nearly a foot wide all studded over
with brass nails. They wore high boots
with the trousers tucked into them, and
had long black hair and heavy black mus-
taches. Picturesque but not prepossessing!

The characters, from the grave and de-
termined Dr. Van Helsing tothe delicate
but wonderously pretty Lucy Westenra,
are all carefully and vividly pictured to
the reader. In fact, throughout the story,
one is kept in complete accordance with
their every whim and thought.

A. R. Jackson.

College Dramatists
Present ‘Octoroon’

McCutchan is Author—John Z.
Preston Takes Lead

Thursday night the Dramatic Club pre-
sented a one-act play, “Octoroon,” in the
auditorium of Chambers The
{the Junior Class.

| play was written by J. W. McCutchan of

It opened with three negroes, Dabney,
Rufus and Queen Esther, and one white
man, Jeb Williams in the single room of
a log cabin. Jeb, who was evidently over-
| seer of the farm, was calling the others
down for not doing the work they were
supposed to have done. This made the
negroes angry and they told him that he
| was not even as good as they were, be-
jcause he “had just enough white blood to
|make him mean, and just enough black
| blood to make him black.” He was in-
|furiated and drove them out.

building.

| As soon as they had left, the joint own-
lers of the farm, Ted Laxton and Harvey
| Peterson, came in and discovered just
jhow much things had been neglected, also
\that Jeb had tried to put himself above
{the others and had refused to work with
them. Ted got angry and said some very
harsh things to Jeb. Harvey Peterson
made a list of the things Jeb was to do
and they left.

After they had gone Jeb called indies
negroes back but only one came, en
Esther. When Jeb told him that all of
them would work together he was in-
formed that they did not choose to work
with a halfbreed. The play ended with
Jeb alone in the room, cursing his un-
known father and wishing that he were
either all white or all black.

Jeb Williams was played by John Z.

Dr. Martin Working

For Ministers’ Fund

Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of
Davidson, has spent the last few months
working for the Ministers’ Annuity Fund
of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He
under the direction of Dr. Henry
Sweets, head of the Committee for the
collection of the ftind.

The Ministers’ Annuity Fund is a. fund
which is being raised to aid in the support
of retired Presbyterian ministers.

For the last month Dr. Martin and his
family have been located in Orlando, Fla.
Here he is going to spend the remainder
of the winter speaking and working for
the relief fund.

is

A reformer said to himself: “Now that
we have almost got prohibition, why not
start in on tobacco?” So to the first man
he met he said: “Old man, you smoke
a great deal.” i

The old man replied, “I do smoke a
great deal,”

“Do you mind telling me how many
you smoke a day?”

“No, I smoke about ten cigars a day.”

“How much do they cost you?”

“Twenty cents apiece.”

“My, that is $2 a day! That is an awful
lot of money. How long have you been
smoking?”

“Thirty years.”

“Two dollars a day
That's a lot of money.”

He turned around and said, “Do you

for thirty years.

Preston; Ted Laxton by Harry Moffett;
Harvey Peterson by Billy Flynn; Queen
Esther by John Brown; Dabney by Henry
McFadyen; and Rufus by Charlie Moore.
see that office building on the corner?”

Medical Missionary
Talks To Students

Dr. R. M. Wilson, of Soon Chun, Korea,
addressed an audience Monday evening in
New Chambers on the topic of Christian
progress in Korea, the need of more inter-
est in those fields and especially the support
of the work now going on there.

For twenty-two years a medical missionary
in the far East, Doctor Wilson has had much
experience especially in the treatment of
feprous cases. The difficulties under the
which the missionary labors were briefly
placed before the hearers and an interesting
contrast of past and present conditions was
made. At Soon Chun it is reported that there
are approximately 1300 cases of leprosy and
at the three southern Korea colonies or hos-
pitals, under the supervision of the Presby-
terian Church there are some 1900.

A very interesting group of slides was
shown illustrating various sides of Korean
life and custom. The pictures were practi-
cally all in color and many were very beau-
tiful.

Korea, according to Doctor Wilson, has
some 20,000,000 inhabitants. In the particular
section under our church's care there are
some three and one-half millions of people.
We should all make and effort to carry on
this work an especially if we are called to
do our part to carry Christ’s word into the
needed places, Doctor Wilson said in closing.

“Yes, and if you had never smoked in
your life, you might have owned that
building.”

The smoker looked at the questioner
and said, “Do you smoke?”

“No, I have never touched tobacco in
any form in my life.”

“Do you own that building?”

“No.”

“Well, 1 do.”

Lingle Makes Talk
To Clover Audience

Sunday, March 2, Dr. Walter L Lingle —
visited the Presbyterian Church at Clover,
S. C., and spoke to the congregation there
on the subject of “Religious Education.”
This church is very closely connected with
Davidson College in several respects. The
pastor, Rev. W. S. Patterson is a Davidson
graduate, member of the Class of '03, and
his- wife, who before her marriage was Miss
Rosa Whithers, is a native of the town of
Davidson, having spent her early years here.
Clover is also the home town of Mr. F. L.
Jackson, Treasurer of the College. Mr. Jack-
son has a brother who is an elder in the
church there at the present time. The church
is a member of the Bethel Presbytery which
joined Concord Presbytery in North Caro-
lina in 1837 to help build Davidson College.

Doctor Lingle was greatly impressed by
the large number of young people and chil-
dren present in the congregation. He stated
that they made up a larger percentage than
he has seen in any church for many days.
Doctor Lingle was pastor of the Presbyterian
Church in Rock Hill, S. C., which is in the
same county as Clover, for five years, so he
met a large number of his old York County
friends while there.

A teacher who was giving the children
written exercises wrote out this “Wanted”
advertisement :

“Wanted—A Milliner. Apply by letter
to Miss Smith, 10 Blank St.”

The children had to make application
for the position in writing.

One youngster wrote:

“Dear Miss Smith: I saw you want a
milliner, I hate to trim hats. Can’t you
get somebody else? Please let me know
at once.”—Ex.

...on the track

"A BIRD IN THE HAND is worth

bush.” Good taste—what smoker would trade it
away for any number of cigarette claims?

Ne Chesterfield smoker would. For its mild
fragrance, its deeply satisfying character — in
short, its taste— has always been the one thing

smokers wanted :

“TASTE ahove everything "

© 1929, Liccerr & Myzns Tosacco Co.

two in the

MILD . .. and yet

THEY SATISFY

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

