N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

g==N

i

FEBRUARY 27, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents ic copy; $2.00 the Col-
Shee Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

}

Editor-in-Chief
i Manager

Z£s_ V. LONG, Jr.
H. McCALL

EDITORIAL STAFF

. B. BLACK. Managing Editor
- W. McCUTCHAN. Managing Editor

» C, RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. Athletic Editor
}: V. D. MIDDLETON. A ignment Editor
. F. PRESTON Editor
rf L. BROWN Feature Editor
. F, JARRATT. A iate Editor
F. D. MILLER A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A iate Editor

i A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
. H. McKINNON. Solicitor
- O. MANN Solicitor
. E. RUFF. Solicitor
. L, SEVIER Solicitor
————————_—_—_———[—[—[—[—=_=_=__——TS

REPORTERS’ CLUB

E. S, HEEFNER President
W._C._RAGIN ..... Vice-President
. V. D. MIDDLETON .__.____- Secretary-T: er
. G. BERRY - G. DUNKLIN
. C. MATTHEWS . S. LEA
. G. MARTIN C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HANCOCK
D. O. STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROWN
of NORTON G, P. PARDINGTON
Sree Me MATTHEWS, W. H.
SR Ee DWELLE, E. C.

FEBRUARY 27, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

What a tumble those Wildcat courtmen
took! It’s a tough problem to explain, and
won't clear up much in the light of con-
jecture. Of course a road trip is not like play-
ing at home, but Davidson's calibre of play
should never have fallen so low. Pass on to
something pleasant.

We extend congratulations to both Washington
and Lee University and Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines, retiring president of Wake Forest. The
benefit is mutual we think, but Doctor Gaines will
have to maintain a lively pace to keep in line with
former presidents of that institution, beginning
with the immortal Lee.

To Mr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, loyal Dav-
idson alumnus, go our very best wishes for
success as he shoulders .the responsibility of
heading the Board of Trustees.

Jist wishing now for a bang-up season of
spring sports. Track and baseball occupy the lime-
light, with tennis and golf close behind. Things

should be fairly good all around. Nothing startling
anywhere.

We wonder how this Queens-Chicora prop-
osition will end up. Appears to hold advantages
for both schools, Certainly a merger of the two
will be welcome by Davidson men. Added at-
tractions and all!

Spring speeds everything up to fever pitch, and
then passes that fever out to the boys, making it a
real task to accomplish even the slightest of duties,
Pass the peanuts and call that batter up!

A SHADOW OF DAVIDSON

Laboring under the handicaps which ev-
ery growing young college experiences, the
Maxton institution is making wonderful
headway, and promises to embark upon fav-
orable seas before.many months haye pass-
ed. In that section of the country, there are
scores of boys who find it difficult to reach

The beauty of the whole situation is that
_P. C. is offering the fine set of boys it at-
tracts the very sort of ideals and opportu-
nities which men find available at Davidson.

These high values need no introduction to

men here, They are evident in the life of the
campus each day, and are jealously shielded
as the vital characteristics of Davidson.
What a prospect for the future if the same
spirit can be developed in the younger
schools which, in a sense, look to Davidson
for guidance and example! Presbyterian
Junior College is off to a gallant start. We
recommend her to your attention.

THE TERROR OF SOVIET

New stories issuing from Soviet Russia
to’the effect: that war cries are ringing
through the streets and that the govern-
ment, alleging that the powers on the out-
side are slowly but surely driving her to de-
fensive measures, stands ready with a cap-
able and confident force to repel any further
infraction of her rights or privileges as a
nation, do not serve to increase the opti-
mism of strong peace advocates. The recent
effort on the part of the clergy of various
sects to take a hand in the religious life of
Russia has added fuel to a smouldering fire
which has grown more intense as Soviet
pride, if such a quality can be said to exist,
has been battered time and again by assault
of the meddling nations round about. So the
Soviets say.

Not content to lose practically every vir-
tue by which most governments are char-
acterized, not content with seeing the back-
bone of the whole state, the people, lost ina
morass of moral and spiritual depravation
such as the world has seldom seen, not con-
tent with having their government repudia-
ted by several leading powers of the world,
the Soviets now cast all measures of trust
or co-operation to the winds, pointing to the
tremendous increase in American and Brit-
ish armaments since the war as specific evi-
dence of growing hostility. Standing with
bared teeth, the Soviet Bear growls open
defiance.

Russia faces the ignorant faces of 150,-
000,000 people who are governed by less
than one per cent of the population. The

government is by force, and its chief weap-

on is terror. At no time was the Soviet Gov-
ernment able to get along without terror,
because terror is the best possible means _in
the struggle of classes for the destruction of
“the parasitic class’—the bourgeoisie.

“The New York Times quotes the former
Commissioner of Justice of ussia, now in
eRxile:

“Terror is not an incidental act, nor an
accidental expression of governmental dis-
pleasure, however frequently repeated. Ter-
ror is a system of violence, ever ready to
punish from above. It is a system of instill-
ing fear, of compulsion, of‘mass destruction,
elevated to the status of law. Terror is a
heavy curtain thrown over the entire pop-
‘ulation, a curtain woven of suspicion, of
maliciousness and vengeance.”

Russia is in pitiable state, her population
in the miserable subjugation of ignorance,
her government based upon “the plan”
which cannot succeed. Her systems of na-
tional regulation, financial and economic,
are shot to pieces. The moral fibre and sense
of values in her people seem to be distorted
beyond hope. Through it all stalks the grim
form of Militarism, nourished by a pride
which is warped beyond recognition. A chal-
lenge to the thinking people of today, per-
haps a problem for the ages—such is Russia.

RECOGNITION AGAIN

Under the editorial caption “A Greater
Queens in Prospect,” the following excerpt
appeared in The Charlotte News of Feb-
ruary 22. The article dealt with the proposed
merger of Queens and Chicora Colleges, and
endeavored to indicate the advantages
which would accrue tothe institution formed
by such a combination.

“But the bringing of the South Carolina
institution here would inevitably mean, with
great rapidity, the establishing of a college
which would have no apologies to make to
any. The support, given at a great cost in
divided lots, could be united ‘to assure
Queens a permanent standing, an increased
faculty, an augmented library.

For long, Davidson College men have been
accepted without question. Davidson had
no deferential bow to make to any of them,
not even to the magnificently wealthy Duke.
Davidson was graduating men whose di-
ploma was indicative of achievement and
who bore beside a finer hallmark, a hall-
mark which no tniversity supported by the
state can possibly leave on a life. Charlotte
will be glad to hail the greater Queens, a
Queens worthy in every way of the frater-
nal institution, Davidson, and will -wish
speedy assent of the proper authorities to
the proposal and will welcome a greater
plant as a center of culture and religious
sectarian educational achievement.”

i. a zy, ay PUTAKL
JW. M&GUTCHAN -

srieO

When readers read the account of a hos-
pital fire in one of our large cities a few days
ago they doubtless recalled a fire of a similar
nature some time back where all of the inmates
were not rescued. Death by fire has long been
considered one of the most terrible methods
with which to tortue victims. For proof of this
investigate the practices of any barbarous na-
tion, even the American Indians. Civilized man
does not strap the doomed man to the stake
any more, but he apparently thinks nothing of
placing scores of infirm weaklings and children
in a dilapidated fire-trap. Davidson students
should be thankful for a fireproof administra-
tion building. Lest some be inclined to play
with fire, however, let them remember that
there are buildings, some of the dormitories in
fact, that are not of fireproof construction.

A last minute “scoop” reports threats of war in
Santo Domingo, small Latin republic. It appears
that, like Mexico, it is nearly impossible to agree
on a fitting presidential candidate. It is to be de-
voutly hoped that the United States Marines will
allow our Southern brethren to work out their own
political problems; we have had a few candidates
ourselves that a well placed bullet could hardly
have missed. Granting that two or three million-
aires do own a few banana or tobacco plants there,
it would be easier to donate their plantations to
thé chosen or favored nominee than to pay for the
bitter herb or succulent fruit with the lives of our
brave “devil-dogs.”

Queen Victoria, of Sweden, lies at death’s
door, seriously ill. Expert physicians and court
surgeons have been at her bedside constantly,
doing all that is in their power: to delay the
“Reaper.” No longer does the head that wears
the crown rest uneasy. In fact, queen mothers
and princesses rest much easier than do the
mothers of future Mussolinis and Rivieras.
Some men amount to more than kings these
days.

e

Diplomats continue to haggle over naval affairs
in London, Judging from all evident concrete good
accomplished to date they might as well be play-
ing blind man’s bluff. England and the United
States agree, whereupon the French exclaim
“O-o-o la, la,” and retire to their headquarters in
ahaughty manner. This column heartily desires
world peace, but agreements will never be reached
as long as nations approach one another over the
conference table in the historically recognized style
that they have heretofore. For perfect teamwork it
is necessary to forget national problems and look
towards international.

Republican business is doubtless alarmed by
certain moves of European countries. It seems
that these nations are taking the first steps
toward building up a tariff wall that will rival
the highest of the Grand Old Party. No one
objects to the detention of a few parrots. for
sanitary reasons, but one would like to see the
farmer able to buy American ‘made products at
a price comparative to.the income which the
agriculturist gains from raw products.

Are you run down? Do you have circles under
your eyes? Have you got a cow-lick in your hair?
Do you often suspect that your friends are making
fun of you behind your back—or worse still, to
your face? Are you bothered with falling hair,
goose-flesh, hang-nails, or corns? If you are, just
read this little article and send the coupon for a
generous sample of that eighth wonder of the
world: — ‘Claud deBack’s Corn Blaster. Here’s
a testimonial which shows the. value of this
elixir :

Dear Mr. deBeck,

For years I was bothered with corns, but after
using three bottles of your wonderful medicine
“Corn Blaster” I am happy to say that I am no
longer troubled with them.

Sincerely,
Count deCadence.
P. C. How can I get my three toes back?
And now, my public, comes the big story.
FROM BOOT-BLACK TO STREET-CLEAN-

ER.
or
WHY PUNK STUDENTS ARE CALLED
FLUNKIES

Little Cuthbert, an humble little boot-black, was
very happy as he started out on his daily grime.

Cuthbert’s first customer was a decrepit old
gentleman who was so weak in the knees that he
could hardly keep his foot on the little bootblack’s
stand, Cuthbert looked up at the old man and got
the following words off his chest, “Gee, Pop, you
ought to call your knee Philanthropic, because it’s
always giving away.” Cuthbert was very fond of
making cute remarks and often nicknamed his cus-
tomers. He called one of his lady clients the
“Wooden Shoe” girl, because she always asked her
boy friends, “Wooden shoe buy me this, and wood-
en shoe buy me that.”

However, my public, don’t for one moment get
the idea that Cuthbert’s life was an easy one. He
had a bitter enemy in the person of the Bad-eye
Bill, the bumptious. bully, Bill always did his best
to make Cuthbert’s life miserable. He was con-
tinually doing little underhanded things that would
make any high-minded youth seethe with right-
eous anger. A great trick of Bill’s was to gather a
group of his cronies and make Cuthbert enter-
tain them under the threat of serious bodily harm
if he failed. For example, they would grab him
and demand that he tell them a joke. Cuthbert
would stammer a: while and then begin, “A man
came up to“me yesterday and offered to sell me a
dog and a canary for a dollar, Sez I to him, ‘O. K,
but where’s the canary?’ ‘Oh,’ the guy said, ‘it’s in
the dog.’” Bill and his gang would then pounce on
him and demand, “Say, what do you mean by tell-
ing us such an old joke? Don’t you know the
war’s over?” “What war?” Cuthbert would whim-
per. “The chain-store war,” they would snap. “Do
you mean Weed Tire Chains?” Cuthbert would
venture. “Yah, Weed Tire Chain around your neck
if we didn’t know you were harmless,” they would
reply cuttingly. As this sort of things continued,
Cuthbert lived with the one purpose of some day .
putting Bill in his place. Some day he would hold
the upper hand.

As the years passed, Cuthbert and Bill went to
work for the same firm. They were now men well
past the prime of life. And then one day Cuth-
bert’s chance came. He went into Bill’s office,
closed the door, and told Bill, right to his face,
exactly what he thought of him, Of course, Bill
fired him for failing to show the proper respect to
his boss, but anyway Cuthbert had had his day.

THOUGHT---THE CREATOR

By R. E. WITT

The world is an open field, fertile as the Delta
of the Nile, into which each man wanders at some
indefinite time during his ephemeral existence to
sow the seed of ambition, and to reap the harvest
of ideas. To cultivate a successful growth it is a
final decree that each mind should remain open,
listening to all theories and creeds yet believing
naught save that which is definitely and con-
clusively proven. Only in this manner is it pos-
sible to fill the great niche reserved for the prod-
ucts of humanity’s remnants; only then will the
goal which is the aim of every life be reached;
only then will the protoplasmic content, called
man, be nurtured with the full measure of happi-
ness which should be its part.

Stoic or Epicurean, we must live. Mohammedan
or Christian, Jew or Buddhist, it is the same. The
lone road to wisdom is the terrible, deeply shadow-
ed path of independence,

Teach, write, preach! Do naught thereby that
will tend to lend wrong impressions and wrong
influence to the weaker, who are always the re-
cipients of knowledge. “Be sure, you are right;
then go ahead.” The disease of humanity is the
inculcation of wrong ideas into the minds of
gullible men. Each of those infinate man-like

particles is an impression within itself; that which
he reads exerts its sway upon him; what he hears
has a like effect, whether for good or evil. There-
fore investigate each principle you desire to foist
upon the world; study its effect; trace it forward
through your thoughts!

If history were subjected to a microscopic ex-
amination wrong belief would be found as the
germ which was co-operative with the fall of
nations. For example take Babylonia and Assy-
ria, They fell. The cause of their failure as long
existent nations was the presence of astrologers
and fortune tellers, not yet surfeited with lies. Man
was told his fate at birth by the stars. Young
children were raised according to the stars. In-
dividuality was lost; independence was lost; crea-
tive power was lost; desire was lost; therefore,
great men ceased to exist, for great men are made
only by desire. It has been said that a great nation
is a nation which produces great men. When great
men were no longer created the nations ceased to
exist. “Ex nihilo nihil fit”—that is the beginning of
the fall; the explanation of the fall; the end of
all life. Think on your dogmas; trace them
through; your present” thought is the catalogue
of future history!
