THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

Thank You, Messrs.
Richardson, for the
Stadium

THE SPORTS PARADE

N. C. State at Greens-
boro First Big Five
Game

Looking ’Em Over

With W. H. Matthews

Davidson vs. Elon Saturday
m., Richardson Field.

at 3:00

D.

The Davidson Wildcat football
team, 1930 model, takes the field for
the first time Saturday afternoon
against Elon, trial-horse for Davidson
elevens for a number of years. Ros-
eate boasts and predictions have been
issuing from the Christian camp since
the first day of practice, and the tilt
this weekend shou!'d provide plenty of
thrills and exciement. Also a stiff test
for Monk Younger’s as yet. untried
team,

Che visitors will pin their hopes chietly
upon Capt. Pete Williams, hefty fullback.
He was one of the best defensive backs to
play upon the Davidson gridiron last year
Coupled with this, he hits a line as hard
as any man in the state. It is with no en-
joyment that the Wildcats look forward
to handling him.

Loss of Walker, diminutive field gener-
al of the Christians is the only serious set-
back they have received during their
pre-season practice, but the withdrawal of

this half-pint quarterback set back the
stock of Elon about fifty percent.
The fact that the State game will be

Played under the are lights has aroused
an ususual amount of interest in the con
test, both on and off the campus, The at
tendance should be as large as any of the
games in which the Wildeats play this
season, And it’s a great help to those un-
fortunate students having Saturday after-

hoon classes, too.

The generosity of Messrs. H. Smith
and Lunsford Richardson in giving the
second unit of the stadium is greatly
appreciated by all friends and alumni
of the college. It improves the general
appearance of the fie’d and simplifies
the problem of handling and seating
the crowds, which had become
troublesome at some of the big games,
notably the Carolina-Duke tilts.

With the addition of the bleachers,
the seating capacity of Richardson
field should be 10,000 or more, which
will be large enough to take care of
the customers at any of the games
here this season. _
transfer of Brock to
the biggest the
early season. The removal of a man from

The

guard

from end

was surprise of
a position at which he has won all-state
mention for two years to a post at which
he has had no collegiate experience was
one which required both nerve on the part
of the coaches and a confidence that the
man would come through in his new posi-
tion.

It was without doubt a wise change on
the part of Younger® and Tilson. Faced
with a wealth of material at end and with
a big hole showing at one guard, no mat-
ter how you looked at it, the Davidson
mentors took a logical, but not obvious
way out of their dilemna. We offer the
prediction that Brock will reaéh the same
heights as a guard which he held as an
end during the last two years.

Addition of Unger and Whittle to
the athletic department brings two
more well-qualified coaches to David-
son’s coaching staff. In effect this
gives the Wildcats a staff of six men
to direct their various athletic activ-
ities. Unger starred at both Mississip-
pi and Indiana. The record of Whittle
as a track star at Davidson is well
known. The work of the physical edu-
cation department has grown so much
durlng the last two or three years that
the addition of these two men had
become almost a necessity.

No important games are scheduled for
this weekend anywhere in the nation.
Most of the teams are waiting to start
their 1930 campaigns until next Saturday.
Davidson plays Elon and N. C. State
meets High Point in the only games in
which Big Five members will take part.
We pick State and Davidson to win by
from three to five touchdowns.

Complete Schedule for
Wildcats*Announced for
Coming Football Season

Schedule is One of Hardest That
Has Been Attempted by
Davidson

V. P. I. HOMECOMING GAME
Card Includes Five Games With
Southern Conference Members

When the Davidson Wildcats swing into
Saturday Elon
they will hardest

action afternoon against

inaugurate one of the

schedules of any small college in the coun-
try, a schedule which includes five Southern
Conference games and only one near set-up.
Among the five Conference teams to be met
two are top-notchers while the other three

stand high in Conference circles. In addi
tion to the other Big Five members, the
Wildcats play two more North Carolina |

teams, three South Carolina teams, and two
Virginia elevens. Davidson travels to three
foreign cities and goes to Charlotte twice.

Elon, the only supposedly set-up, proved
to be no set-up at all last year. Williams,
the big fullback, made things hot for David
son, both on offense and defense. Much is
expected of him again this year.

When the Wildcats journey to Greens
boro September 27 to meet one of her an
cient rivals, they will for the first time play
under the glare of bright lights. N. C. State
is expected to place on the field a team that
will put Davidson to the “Strpreme test and
added to the new experience of night foot

Varsity Football
Schedule

Sept. 20—Elon at Davidson.

Sept. 27—N C. State at Greensboro
(Night game).

Oct. 4—Erskine at Davidson.

Oct. 11—Duke at Durham

Oct. 18—The Citadel at Charlotte.

October 25—V. P. I. at Davidson
(Homecoming Day). if

Nov. 1—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

Nov. 8—Wofford at Davidson. -___-

Nov. 15 — University of N. C. at
Davidson.

Nov. 27—Wake Forest at Charlotte
(Thanksgiving).

F MEN WHO MAKE THE WILDCATS WILD

ee)

“MONK” YOUNGER

“TEX” TILSON

Coaches Younger and Tilson are starting their eighth season as coaches at
Davidson. Each year their popularity has increased and their backers have become
more and more firm in their support. The spirit of fight and sportsmanship that
they always inculcated into their.teams has led all opponents to respect them. They
start this season with the brightest prospects that have greeted them during their
regime as directors of Wildcat athletic teams. ,

Va
fast backfield, but nothing would. suit

with 4
Monk
j better than to give the Gobblers a tumble

Will have ao strong team

The Wildeats move on to Lexington No

vember 1 to wage war on the Cadets of
V. M. [. Last year’s game ended in a 12
to 6 verdict for Vo M.-L. But it was a close
one, and if Vo. M.-L. is not improved this
year they will have a hard time stopping

the Wildeats.

Many New Men Try Out

For Freshman Football

\ squad of SS men have answered Coach
Red
didates, and are now working out daily un
the
Coach Unger
the
the vearling eleven

Laird’s call for Freshman football can

der direction of Laird and Assistant

It is stated that this is one of
for

years,

largest teams that has turned out

in a number of

Davidson Tackles State _
In Greensboro at Night

Will be First Big Five Night Game
in North Carolina

On Saturday, September 27, the Davidson
Wildcats will play their first night football
game, meeting N. C. State on that date.
The initial appearance of the Wildcats un-
the attracted wide attention,
and since this will be the first Big Five
game to be played after dark, it is consid-

der ares has

ered by many as a test of the possible pop-
ularity of football under the floodlights.

In order to accustom themselves to play
ing in the limelight, it is planned by Coach
Younger to take his entire team to Greens

boro Friday before the and have

game a
short workout. The N. C. State team will
cnjoy a decided advantage over Davidson in
that this will be their second night game,

meeting High Point College Saturday night
The
plenty

lighting throws
of

will be easy for both players and spectators

system employed

light on the field, and the play
to follow. The lights are so arranged that
shadows are reduced to a minimum, and high
punts and passes will not be lost in the dark.
Opponents of night play in general point out
that these are the two outstanding difficul
ties in providing sufficient illumination, +

N.C. State has announcedsthat’ all of its
home games, except the Duke contest, will
he played at night. The statement brought
forth many the state
that the first
portant school in the state to adopt night

comments from over

in Technicians were the im-

play, although Rutherfordton and Lenoir
Rhyne had previously made public their de
cisions to use lights for all their home con-

tests.

Tom Thumb Ghurke
To Be Opened Soon

The space between ‘the Stetson “D" store
and White’s Drug store has been the scene
of much activity during the last tew days.
A jiine-hole miniature golf course will be
completed there and opened to students and
townspeople by Saturday, September 20, Mr.
Olin Hunter, of Huntersville, the
prictor and has the admission
prices to. be for
twenty-five cents for two players of nine

is pro

announced

fifteen cents nine holes,

holes, and twenty-five cents for one player
of eighteen holes.

‘ The Wofford Terriers journey up to Da-]and the coaches feel certain that there will} @ —————
: Ison on November & for their annual tilt} be a number of likely varsity prospects sent
hall, should prove one of the hardest games *" ; tes : €
of the ra ae : eee Sgt wvith the Wildeats. Wofford almost out up for next year's team. The Gentlemen of th
’ > sason, a i 4
ger ie ; fought Davidson Jast year in a slow game No heavy serimmages have been sched Jury
_Erskine hattles the ae back in Da down in Spartanburg, but the Wildeats man Blad ca Anat rit Ge aga haan valet preferred the blonde haired
vidson the week-end of October 4. Not much Apelatoaule Out eG tac wilovercticin ea Te eee laintif, Her iniuries showed
is known about the Seceders this year, but COTS SNe On Mmen tes OF lis game ee | ] 1 tl judgment
; eae ray face ¢ re judgme
‘itis generally rumored that they have been Then follows what is without doubt the Psuch as blocking, tickling, going down un le : i 3 es at tt amin hate
pretty hard hit by graduation and are not. hardest game on Davidson's schedule for the} der punts, and charging. The iinemen HAYS vee ee tes 1 gh the Aes
as strong as they were last fall year, when Carolina invades Davidson No- | been receiving instruction in the fine points YeGn WOES OEE s
oe Aes P FeTldtaialvCMtilaan enya ne aninVate fendant motorist suffered some
The Duke Blue Devils will entertain Da-| vember 15. Davidson is stronger this year of defensive ani! ofensive ‘line. play: trom| iy f time, the Insurance
hi . . . ook ’ . ‘ “1, Fs a e
vidson in their Jair the following week-end, than last. while Carolina’ is probably no Unger. Although still green, some likely Gin = said the bills
October 1. This will be one of the most | Weaker. It will be a great game. DOK ITUs DrOsmtets -tbveshecn mncovered: aid mickey Sec Se
ites dau ue i the veaniawi thithenmemony it sems certain that) this year’s line will Let U8 protect you against
colo ye eso e¢ vear, W {.) c ry ts ¥ : ane? ‘ H : nv e : : * ‘ $113 ,
t flag! 2 sas ratacle gril loan Fae aie A jinx of eight: years’ standing SS BIVENT He almost as heavy from tip to tip as that claims for personal injury,
oe ee i ae Boi eee Nae GC arothanchancestOabe done away with on] | ¢ (neeetall damage to property of
Peace wenaeanee November 27, Thanksgiving Day, when | oe : others and against damage
Citadel will be met in Charlotte the next | Wake Forest tangles with the Wildeats a ase) baud As fee GEVOBNE ean Gt ‘to vour own car by col-
Saturday, which is October 18. The Cadets again. This game is scheduled to be played wy EN uh eb oy o oa a an lision :
will have a veteran’ machine which will! jn Charlotte and should be a big drawing [ers ad i showing the art of running with
probably be stronger than last year’s eleven. | card since this seems to be Davidson's year, the ball INDEPENDENCE TRUST
This game will be another dark cloud on No attempt has as yet been made to split COMPANY
Davidson's horizon. the squad into teams, but with the first ne Serene
Home-coming will be October 25 this year, Wife: “What have you there?” game only a. little ONEG two weeks off, a scaler ee C13) :
with Monk's and Tex's old Alma Mater, Husband: “Some insect powder.” tentative arrangement 1s expected to he ¢ Ria s viva ('26) oe
V. P. 1. furnishing the opposition for that Wife: “Good heavens! You aren't going | reached liefore long as to first, second and] |} - B. Speir, Jr.
football spectacle before the old grads. to commit suicide?” third strings. o— ~— >
M le |
{ Dd oa
r TmHe mr
PHE DAVIDSON HOTEL nee
(Successor to the Maxwell Chambrs) S I | | SON D S I ORI
Announcing that we are now ready to efficiently serve you in our i;
newly decorated and altered hotel. Your patronage wall be extends their Hearty Welcome to the
greatly appreciated. i 5
Davidson Men
The best of foods and 'service.
Clothes For The College Man
, = ; : hs
W. A. MURRAY, JR., Class of ’26
3 r
Vow Cw.

1750
