MATMEN OFF af | 7 , WILDCAT QUINT
FOR ON
WEST POINT STATE JAUNT
: “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” '
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 20, 1930 ~~ No. 18

Davidson Quintet Faces
Very Strong Opposition
In Three State Teams

Victories Against These Teams Will
Give Wildcats Equal Right to
State Championship

TAR HEELS IMPROVED

Cagers Will Then End Season With
Wofford on Thursday

This week-end, the Wildcat basketeers will
have the opportunity to mend or mar their
standing in the “Big Five’ race. Friday
night at Raleigh, the N. C. State Red Ter-
rors, last year’s Southern Conference
Champs, will be met. On, Saturday at Dur-
ham, the Wildcats will meet their only con-
queror in “Big Five” circles to date, when
they stack up against the Duke Blue Devils,
runners-up in the Conference last year, and
this year twice winner over every “Big
Five” quint in the State except the Wildcats.
On Monday night, Coach Monk’s charges
meet the rejuvenated Tar Heels of Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

Undoubtedly the Duke contest will be the
hardest nut to crack. However, each of the
other two quintets are of a high caliber, the
Red Terrors and the Tar Heels having split
their two game bill, and the University boys
having been nosed out by only a single point
recently by the rampaging Blue Devils.

N. C. State has three men back from their
championship team of last year, and around
these an unusually strong quint has been
formed. This is the first encounter of the
two teams this year, so that no very ‘definite
comparison can be made.

On the following night, the Wildcats will
be out to reap revenge on their recent con-
queror, Duke. All who saw the Duke five
in action against the ’Cats in Charlotte will
attest to the prowess of the Blue Devils.
However, if the Wildcats play the same type
of ball that they did two weeks ago, and if
Lady Luck is kind, the Devils are very apt
to see a black mark go down on their State
record sheet.

Resting over Sunday, the Wildcats move
over to Chapel Hill for a return engagement
with the Tar Heels, Monday night. Accord-
ing to reports Carolina has much improved
since they lost to the ’Cats early jn the
season. Last Saturday, they showed cham-
pion class by coming within a point of the
Blue Devils, and Coach Monk can expect
even more opposition from that quarter than
he got before.

The curtain of the basketball season will
be rung down on the 27th when the Wofford
cagers will be met again on the home floor.
With this game, the Davidson fans will. see
the final collegiate appearance of two for-
wards, Pritchett, Captain of last year’s quint,
and Captain Frontis Johnson, leader of this
year’s five.

Scabbard and Blade
Frat To Entertain

Interesting Program Planned for
Meeting Tonight

Members of the local chapter of Scabbard
and Blade military fraternity will entertain
the senior R. O. T. C. cadet officers and
the army officers in charge of the unit here
in the college at their chapter room on
Thursday night from 8 until 9:30 o’clock.
There are thirteen members in the local
chapter and thirty-three senior cadet officers.

Colonel Scott will talk about the coming
inspection and’ Captain Blanton will discuss
the service of the United States army in the
Hawaian Islands. Captain Blanton has seen
service in the Hawaian Islands, having come
directly from that station to Davidson.

's This occasion is ‘éxpected to be one of the
most enjoyable - and worthwhile entertain-
ments to be given by Scabbard and Binge
men this -year. i :

Fleagle Again Dean
Of Summer Session

Adopting the same plan as™that of last
year, the trustees of, Davidson College have
authorized a summer session, beginning June
9 and ending July 18, 1930. Plans for this
session are being conducted by Prof. Fred
K. Fleagle. All the summer courses offered
are of college grade and are so recognized
by the College, with the exception of certain
courses in the public school arts. Six semes-
ter hours represent the maximum
allowed a college student.

credit

The following courses will be offered in
this session: English, Bible 2,
Political Science, Mathematics, French or
Spanish, Physics, Geography, and Music.
These courses should appeal especially to the
following groups: high school graduates who
intend to enter college next fall and have
entrance conditions to remove; college stu-
dents who are deficient’ in their work, and
who wish to remove this deficiency; college
students who wish to advance their college
standing by summer work; teachers who
wish to raise the grade of license held; and
teachers who are not college graduates and
who wish to continue work toward a degree.
Most of these courses are Sophomore, Junior
and Senior subjects, with only one or two
for Freshmen.

Education,

The educational courses should be especial-
ly attractive to teachers in the public school
system. The course in “Grammar Grade
Teaching” will be taught by. Miss Estelle
Rawl, Superintendent of Grammar Grades in
Charlotte, North Carolina. Miss Minnie Lee
Peedin, Primary Superintendent of Schools
in Gastonia, North Carolina will conduct the
course in “Primary Grade Teaching.”

Professor Fleagle reports that teachers for
other courses have not been selected as yet,
but that their selection will take place within
the next few days.

Party Will Replace

Sophomore Banquet

New Idea Teiadias as Sophs Plan
Entertainment on Campus

The traditional Sophomore Banquet will
follow a different plan this year and take the
form of a week-end party on March 8. The
Sophomores will have a number of fair dam-
sels to help them celebrate the glorious oc-
casion, which starts Saturday afternoon, cli-
maxing in a banquet in the Maxwell-Cham-
bers Building that night, and closing Sunday.

Committees are already functioning, pre-
paring entertainment for the 160 Sopho-
mores and their girls. There will be a num-
ber of exciting feattires to fill the entire pro-
gram and to give the visitors of the time of
their lives. Never before has a Sophomore
Class undertaken to have girls at this annual
function and this addition is expected to add
enthusiasm, beauty, and enjoyment to an
already famous occasion.

Dean F.F.Bradshaw
Talks With Faculty

Dean F. F. Bradshaw of the University of
North Carolina last week closed a three-
day seminar with the Davidson College fac-
ulty members, during which time the Uni-
versity dean and Davidson professors dis-
cussed in detail vocation guidance, and how
members of a college or university faculty
can be helpful in assisting the students to
choose their life professions.

Dean Bradshaw was invited by a commit-
tee of the faculty last fall, and had accepted
an invitation to visit Davidson in’ Novem-
ber. Illness in his family, however, necessi-
tated a postponement. The ‘object of his
seminar was to lend whatever assistance pos-
sible to the Y: M. C. A., which annually con-
ducts a vocational guidance program: The
University dean was selected “because of his
specialized study and: the: widespread expe-
rience he has enjoyed in:this-field...

During the three days he was here, Dean’
Bradshaw. met with: the ‘Davidson faculty
meinbers pix: different times, and: appeared
at the chapel exercises: ; <5. all

Honor Roll

According to Mr. F. L. Henge-
veldt, Registrar, those who made
the Honor Roll, or in other words
attained an average of 95 per cent
or over for the first semester are
as follows:

Seniors: J. L. Brown, A. T. Edel-
man, F. W. Johnston, J. B. Knox,
E. L. Lafferty, J. R. Marks, E. E.
Marsh, W. G. McGavock, W. B.
McQuire, F. D. Miller, J. A. Moore,
F. V. Poag, R. H. Reid, W. A. Sut-*
ton, H. W. White.

Juniors: J. B. Black, Jr., D. J.
Caldwell, J. R. Caldwell, Lucy Mar-
tin Currie, E. K. Emurian, K. M.
Jackson, J. W. McCutchan.

Sophomores: R. P. Enloe, C. W.
Harrison, T. W. McLean.

Freshmen: P. F. Brown, Jr., E. O.
Guerrant, D. M. McConnell, Susan
Moffett.

Wildcats Conquer Flon
In Hard Fought Battle

Christians Fail in Last Half Rallies
and Lose 44-30

The Davidson Wildcats cleaned up on the
Elon Christians last Saturday night by the
decisive score of 44 to 30. Twice the Chris-
tian tall boys nearly cloded the margin separ-
ating them from the Wildcats, but each time
their rally fell just short of the mark, and
the lead which Davidson got in the opening
moments of play was never relinquished dur-
ing the game.

Elon presented a team of six footers that
threatened plenty of trouble but they could
not fathom the great five man defense of
Younger’s men, and could present no defense
to stop Johnston, Pritchett and Co. Kelly,
diminutive guard, seemed strangely out of
place with his lofty companions, but he
showed he could handle a basketball. His
dribbling and floor work was the mainstay
of Elon’s attack,

The game was unusually full of fouls.
Elon gave Davidson 19 free throws, and
the ’'Cats made 14 of them good. The Wild-
cats only offered eight gift shots, and just
half of these were cashed. in.

Bill Goodson ran wild to get 13 points and
chalk up for himself high scoring. honors.
Johnston pressed him closely to get twelve
for second honors, Carl Pritchett was so
closely guarded that he didn’t get his share
of shots, but his floor work was good. Jim
Proctor made good four out of five free
throws offered him.

Davidson (44)
Pritchett (8)

Elon (30)
(13) Parker

‘ Forward

Wolmiein (OV) sey a F. Caddell( 2)
Forward

Raa Siti: (6) oars ers ee Rollins (6)
Center

Goodson. G13). sesesss 88s leo Kelly (6)
Guard

Proctor: (4) geese cess we esse Briggs( 1)
Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, Moore, Martin.

Wilson, (1); Elon, Walker, D. Caddell

(2).

Referee: Faul (Charlotte).

4 +

State Champion
Wrestlers

At the conclusion of the recent
meet with Duke University, it was
to an undisputed state champion-
ship in their classes. Pie Conway,
155 pounder, and Alex Warren, 175
pounder, have met and defeated the
men of their respective classes from
N. C, State, Carolina, and Duke.
Wake Forest, the other big fivecon-
, tender, does not participate in inter-
.:ggllegiate wrestling. Pongeesaletions
toy, thee Wildcat matmen.

2

ry ee a ae)

Glee Club Returns
From Virginia Trip

Wednesday morning, February 12, the

Davidson Glee Club and Sunnyland*Sereri: |

ders left for a short tour of Virginia. and
North Carolina, The trip included Roanoke
and Staunton, Va., Greensboro, and States-
ville, N. C. The last engagement was at
Statesville on Saturday night.

The entire club was in fine condition, and
gave creditable performances at all the cities
on the schedule. Although the audiences were
never very large, they were responsive, and
seemed to appreciate the concerts very much.
The blackface act, given by Joe MeCall,
Murray Christian, and Bruce Sugg, was
the bright spot of the program everywhere
it was given. The solos of George Parding-
ton, and the music of the orchestra were
also hits with the audiences.

The trip not only afforded much pleasure,
but was also instructive and educational for
the Gleemen. The beautiful mountains of
Virginia, Natural Bridge, and other scenic
attractions gave ample cause for the admira-
tion of the Davidson men.

The Glee Club and orchestra will take an-
other trip, starting April 11 through South
Carolina,

Lingle To Continue
Speaking Tour Soon

Davidson President Visits Promi-
nent Carolina Churches

Dr, Walter Lingle has several speaking
engagements for the next few weeks through-
out North and South Carolina and then will
leave on-a trip during which he will visit
Davidson Alumni associations all over the
country.

Doctor Lingle spent the time from Febrif®
ary 2 to February 7 at Buffton College, Buff-
ton, Ohio, where he gave two lectures a
day. On Sunday, February 9 he preached at
the First Presbyterian in Lynchburg, Va.

Last Sunday, February 16, Doctor Lingle
spoke at the Presbyterian Church in High
Point. He met with the executive committee
of the Trustees of Davidson College in Char-
lotte Tuesday and on Wednesday the Board
of Trustees met here in Davidson.

The Men's Club of the Presbyterian
Church at Hickory has invited Doctor Lin-
gle to speak for them on Friday, the 21st.
At this time he will take four men from
Davidson to furnish the music. Rev. J.
Hay, class of ’10, is pastor of this church.

On Sunday, March 2, Doctor Lingle will
speak in the Presbyterian Church at Clover,
S. C., of which Rev. W. S. Patterson, class
of '03, is pastor. On March 9, he will go

» Thomasville, N. C., to occupy the pulpit
in the church of which Rev.
class of 719, is pastor.

From Monday, March 10 through Tues-
day, March 18, Doctor Lingle will speak to
Alumni ‘Associations largely thxgugh the
territory of New York and Pennsylvania.

Daviaion Freshmen
Down Wingate Five

The Davidson Wildkittens broke their
long losing streak of four games by defeat-
ing the Wingate five in Wingate, Friday
night, by the overwhelming score of 45- 19.
To win this game the Little ’Cats played up
to their usual standard. The Wildkittens
completely ran away from Wingate in the
first half, the score at the end of this period
being Davidson Freshmen 24, Wingate 4.

The Wildkittens played an exceptionally
good game and clearly deserved to beat Win-
gate. Their shooting and passing was very
accurate and their dribbling was down to a
fine point. There were no individual stars
for the Wildkittens; they all played a bril-
liant game. Their scoring attack was led by
Pierce and Rogers with sixteen points each,
and Manson, who collected eight points.

There were no stars for Wingate, but the
whole team played well against a much bet-
ter and faster team, Their high point man
was Gaddy, center, whp had six points to
his credit; he was closely followed by Wil-
liams, ‘right forward, who had five points.;

. vvii. 2; (Continued on Page 6)

J. K. Fleming,

Annual Junior Speaking

Program To Take Place
On March 14th and 15th

University of South ¢ Carolina Co-Ed
Follies Will Take Prominent Part
in Entertainment

TO INCLUDE MINSTREL

Cabaret Saewer. will Be Held Im-
mediately Preceding Minstrel

March 14
dates for Junior Speaking.

been set as the
Plans for making
it the best in the history of the college are

and 15 have

being rapidly pushed to completion by those
in charge. The program for this year is to
be an unusually fine Among the out-
standing numbers will be a big social fune-
tion to be held in Charlotte, Friday night,
March 14, which will constitute the opening
detailed announcement of the
the evening will be made at
a later date. Other numbers will be a_pic-
ture football game here Saturday
afternoon, and a Cabaret supper in the even-
ing from six to eight fifteen o'clock which

one,

More
for

event,
program

show or

will be followed by a minstrel.

Everyone who has any part in the work
for this week end is doing his best to make
Those in charge
program are:

it a success in every way.

of the various parts of the

Friday night's events, C. H. Goodykoontz ;
Cabaret Supper, J. S. Meacham; Adver-
tising, J. B. Black; Ministrel, R. M. King,

J. D. McCall, H. S. Covington, and W. W.
Fraley.

In an endeavor to make this minstrel the
best yet, lots of outside talent will be used.
The South Carolina Co-Ed Follies will be
here through the entire week-end to take
part in the minstrel and,other numbers on
the program. This is wellknown as one of
the best school organizations in the Caro-
linas and has shown in a number of cities
including Charlotte, where a three day stand
was made at the Carolina Theatre. This
performance will be remembered as an ex-
ceptionally fine one by many of the students
who were here at the time and will be
heartily endorsed by them.

It is the earnest hope of those in charge
that the entire student body will co-operate
with the Junior Class by asking girls up.
Junior Speaking is one of the really big
events of the school year and with the pro-
gram that has been arranged proper co-
operation on the part of the students should
make it the biggest. The committee is doing
its best to fill every. minute of the time
with something worth while. In an interview
with the Davidsonian a member of the com+
mittee made the following statement for the
student body: “It is your own fault if you do
not have a girl up and enjoy this event with
us. Don't put off asking that girl—ask her
now.”

J.W.McConnell Will
Represent Medicos

College Physician Honored by
Governor of North Carolina

Dr. John W. MacConnell, secretary-treas-
urer of the State Board of Medical Exami-
ners and physician of Davidson College, has
been appointed by Governor Gardner to re-
present the medical profession of North
Carolina at the annual congress of medical
education, medical licensure and hospitals,
which meets in Chicago on February 17. This
particular congress will concern itself with
the study of the administration and enforce-
ment of medical practice laws.

This will the third conference which Dot-
tor MacConnell has attended as a_ repre-
sentative of North Carolina, and at the ap-
proaching sessions he will discuss a paper
relative to uniform requirements for licen-
sure in the entire United States. Through
his connection with the state medical board
of examiners, Doctor MacConnell has been
able to study the question, and will present
his paper from first-hand knowledge.

Doctor MacConnell is adviser to pros-
pective students of medicine at Davidson and
his attendance at these annual meetings
enables him to hold personal conferences with
the deans, and presidents of various wniver-

(Continued on page 3) =
