, ~

MAKE THE TRIP TALKS IN MIND
TO DEFEAT : THE REST OF
DUKE THE YEAR
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 9, 1930

No. 4

Wildcats Face Blue Devils

In Annual Battle Saturday ~

Duke’s New Stadium at Durham is
to be Scene of Keen Rivalry

DUKE FAVORED TO WIN

Brewer, Murray, and Company
Present Heavy Line and Fast
Backfield

Davidson's Wildcats, by three
straight victories, will invade the Blue Devils’
lair Saturday afternoon to attempt to make
it two straight over DeHart’s rejuvenated
eleven. This game for a long time was an-
nually a Turkey Day tilt, but last year Duke
officials decided to change the Davidson game
to an earlier date in the schedule. So the
Wildcats, as a fitting memorial to the age-
old custom of playing Duke on Thanksgiv-
ing, fought their way to victory over a high-
ly rated Blue Devil squad by a one-point
margin, winning, 13-12.

buoyed

The renewing of this ancient rivalry this
year has been looked forward to by the sup-
porters of both teams after such a hard
fought battle last year, and a great throng
of ardent fans is expected to gather at Dur-
ham for this great epic. Up until last Sat-
urday Davidson was granted a bare margin
over the Blue Devils in the world of dope,
but following Duke's impressive showing on
that afternoon, Duke will probably be fa-
vored by the majority for this week’s tilt,
which will make the game all the more in-
teresting.

After a poor showing against South Caro-
lina in her opening game, Duke made a
complete reversal of form to outclass the
Virginia Cavaliers last Saturday. In this
game the Blue Devils uncorked a smashing
attack led by Kid Brewer which completely
annihilated any defense that Virginia could
put up. Bill Murray, Moon Mullen, and Ab-
bott gave Brewer brilliant support both in
progressing the ball and in interfering for
their big teammate. Murray was especially
successful in ripping off tackle for the needed
amount and at one time got away for 22
yards. With the backfield men working in
perfect co-ordination, beautifully executed
double passing and fake cross-back plays
really accounted for the downfall of the Vir-
ginians.

Coach Jimmie DeHart has built a formid-
able team out of a large number of green
candidates who have to fill the places of 17
regulars missing from this year’s squad. Duke

(Continued on page 5)

Home-Coming Exercises

Arranged for Old Grads

Reunion of 1910 Championship
Team Marks Program of
October 25th

Some outstanding events carded for Home-
Coming Day, October 25th, at Davidson
College include the reunion of the 1910 state
championship team of Davidson, the semi-
annual meeting of the Davidson College Al-
umni Council, a morning program featuring
the return of Davidson alumni, a luncheon
in the banquet hall of Chambers Building at
noon, the V. P. I.-Davidson football game
in the afternoon, and a stunt night program
in the evening to round out a full day's ac-
tivity. This is the most auspicious schedule
arranged for such an occasion at Davidson.

According to Ernest Milton, alumni sec-
retary, the alumni attendance will exceed
that of former years. Notification has al-
ready been received from alumni scattered
throughout America that they will direct
their footsteps toward their Alma Mater on
October 25th. Representation of a dozen or
more states is generally contained in the reg-
istration in the alumni office. Should the Da-
vidson football team continue its successful
work on the gridiron, this will constitute an
added drawing card to former students of
this Presbyterian institution. ~

Within the next two weeks, complete de-
tails of this annual gathering will be sent to
the alumni, and notifications will start peur-
ing into the office of 'the alumni secretary.

Sins Of The Body
Discussed By Lacy

On Monday evening Dr. Lacy made one of
his strongest appeals to Davidson men. His
topic of the morning having been the sins
of the mind, he talked that night on the
sins of the body. He talked on the three
greatest of these sins: gluttony, any over-
stimulation of the body, and sexual trans-

gressions.

The first, gluttony, is one of the most,
common and less thought of of all the sins |
of the body. One should eat enough for the |
good of his body, but the great sin of glut- |
and |

tony is the fact that one sits down

loses sight of everything but of his desire

to eat. This is not only a sin against God, |

but is also a sin to oneself.

Another very frequent sin that+one has |

is that of over-stimulation of the body. Men

have the idea when they take intoxicants |

or stimulants for the first time that they can
stop any time that they choose. This, how-

ever, is not the case, and Dr. Lacy showed
by many illustrations that once intoxicants |

or stimulants have a hold on a man it

very, very seldom that he breaks away from |
them, Many homes have been wrecked, many |

lives have been ruined, because men thought

is |

| Sensational Runner Dr. Lacy Speaks on Faith
and Sacrifice at Services

YOR MCCALL HALFBACK,

that they could master these habits, when |

the habits really mastered them:

The last sin that Dr. Lacy. talked on was
that sexual irregularities. This
of the most pernicious sins &nd its penalties
are the most severe.

of is

A.B. McClure is Chosen

Officer of Senior Class

McClure Wins Close Race Over
Pepper on the Last Ballot

In the recent Senior Class elections to

name a vice-president, which office was left

vacant, Albert McClure was elected on the

third ballot. Six men were nominated, in-

cluding Jas. A. Jones, of Laurinburg, N. C

one |

| Joe McCall, brilliant back, whose 74 yard
| run was the feature of the Erskine game

!
|

Men are Announced to
| Coach Class Teams for
_ Intramural Competition

| Pritchett, Goodson, Martin, and
Rusk Will Lead Basketball

Teams for Coming Year

| CLASS OF ’30 CHAMPIONS

| No Varsity Men Are Eligible for
Competition

In continuing the program of intramural
lathletic competition, the next sport follow

Charles Kraemer, of Texarkana, Texas, |
Jack Pepper, of: Winston-Salem, N. C.,
Charles Sisson, Winona, Miss., Stewart

Meacham, Birmingham, Ala., and McClure. |

The deciding ballot was cast between Pep-
per and McClure, the latter winning out: in

a close race.

McClure, from Rabun Gap, Ga., has be-
come a well known figure on the campus
in his three years here, and has given his
time and talents to many activities. He is
Chairman of the Student Life Committee
of the Y. M. C. A., President of the Min-
isterial Band, after holding practically every
office among the ministerial students, a mem-
ber of Eta Sigma Phi honorary classical
fraternity, and a member of Le Cercle Fran-
cais. At the present time McClure has just
finished a serviceable job of handling the
interviews with Dr. Ben Lacy in the fall
evangelical services held here.

Jack Pepper, who lasted to the third bal-
lot with McClure, is a member of the Kappa

Sigma fraternity, captain of the golf team, |

a member of the Spanish Club, was on the
Freshman tennis team, and a member of
the I. R. C. Jas. A. Jones and Charlie Sis-
son went out on the second ballot. Jones, a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity, is prominently connected with the
Y. M. C. A., being a member of the “Y”
Board of Control, and treasurer of the Y.
M. C. A., besides many other honors. Sis-
sdn is a member of Phi Gamma Delta’ so-
cial fraternity, advertising manager of the
Quips and Cranks, is a member of the Beaver
Club, manager of the track team, a member
of the Court of Control.

Students from twelve countries are reg-
istered at the Princeton Theological Sem-
inary.

ball. Competition is expected to run unusu-
ally high this year, as none of the classes
now in had a hand on
the basketball championship, the class of
1930 having held this honor for the past three
years.

school has as yet

Although there will be at least two more

weeks before the tournament swings into ac-
tion, no definite date has been set, as yet,
but the coaches for the various classes have
| been chosen. Carl Pritchett, “Y” secretary,
one of the stars of last year’s varsity team,
| will be the Freshmanscoach; Bill Goodson
| will be in charge of the Sophomore team;
Grier Martin will lead the Juniors, and Dean
Rusk will coach the Senior team. No mem-
| bers of the varsity basketball squad will be
| eligible, but all other members of the sev-
leral classes are urged to take part in the
| practices which take place each evening.

Each class will play two games, the win-
ner receiving a .certain number of points
| toward the award of a_ beautiful
| plaque which will have the numerals of the
| class winning the entire program of intra-
mural sports for the year engraved upon it.
The classes will also compete in track, vol-
ley ball, golf, tennis, gymnastics, Sigma
Delta Psi competition, and physical improve-
ment. Last year the plaque was won by the
class of 1933.

bronze

In connection with the inter-class basket-
ball, there will also be an inter-fraternity
tournament. The fraternities will compete
in the same events throughout the year as
do the classes. This will be exactly the same
as last year with the exception that, for the
first time, a cup will be awarded to the win-
ning fraternity.

ing campus football will be that of basket-,

Work on Quips and

Cranks Progresses

Work on the Quips and Cranks is now
in full swing. The editor, Andy Bird, and
business manager, Bob King, have worked
the past summer getting things ready to start
on the year book as soon as school started.
' The contracts for the printing, engraving
and signed, the
Queen City Printing Company printing the
book this year, while the Charlotte Eneray
ing Company will do the engraving. White
Studio, of New York City, has sent its best
photographer here to take the pictures, which
will be superior to previous work, having a

photography have been

more effective setting than in years past.
There were about 260 pictures taken when
the photographer was here, and proofs of
these pictures will be here the last of this
week, The second photographet will be back
on the campus about the first of the year,
to finish up the individual pictures, and to
take the group pictures.

The business staff met last Tuesday night
making plans for getting advertisements,
this phase forming the nucleus of the book's
financial income,

There are’ several new features in make
up and content of the book, which will be
revealed in the near future. Work on write-
ups and Junior and Senior honors will also
begin soon.

Last year the book was rated as excel-
lent, but not All-American, so the staff has
something to work for. Both editorial and
business staffs are working hard to make
the Quips and Cranks of 1931 the best an
nual ever put out by Davidson.

Excellent Glee Club is

Forecast for This Year

Twenty-Seven New Men Have
Been Chosen for Coming

Year
With the best material on hand in several
years, the 1930 edition of the Davidson Col-
lege Glee Club bids fair to surpass the ex-
cellent) Glee Club last not
in quality but in variety of entertainment to
be offered,

of year only

Approximately fifty candidates responded
to the call for tryouts, and since the first
of October, twenty-seven new men have been
of them from the
Together with the remaining men
from the Glee Club of last year, this alto-
number

chosen, most Freshman

Class.
gether too large will be reduced
to about thirty men, and with the necessary
“survival of the fittest,” only the best ma-
terial will be chosen. Fortunately, the usual
scarcity of first tenors does not prevail, there
heing about twelve candidates out for this
position, among whom are some very likely
prospects.

Several short trips for the club are being
planned ‘for before Christmas, probably in
the latter part of November, and a six-day
Southern trip in the vicinity of Atlanta is
expected. This trip, which was to have been
taken last year, will include Agnes Scott.
Brenau, other girls’

schools.

and several larger

Plans are now being made for the Glee
Club to sponsor the annual Stunt Night to
take place on Home-Coming, October 25th.
There is also the possibility that the mem-
bers of the winning stunt will accompany
the club on its trips, thus giving incentive
to the various groups to put out good stunts,
and also the prospect of a more than usually
good program for Stunt Night.

As the college
known as the Sunnyland will
accompany the Glee Club. The program for
the Glee Club will be composed of the light-
er compositions, among which are the fol-
lowing: “Little Cabin of Dreams,” made fa-

better
Serenaders,

usual, orchestra,

‘mous by the well known John McCormack,

and to be arranged for quartet and chorus,
vocal arrangement of Rachmaninoff's prelude
in C sharp minor, and an arrangement of

(Continued from page 5)

ie)

Prominent Churchman Points Out
Essential Value of Faith at All
Times

ANNUAL FALL SERVICE

Unreserved Sauritibe Motivated by
the Love of Jesus Christ

“In the eyes of God, man’s cardinal sin is
impairment of faith,’ said Dr. Ben R. Lacy,
of
Richmond, Va., speaking before the students

president Union Theological Seminary,
of Davidson College in the annual fall evan-
gelistic services which he is conducting here.
“Unless we-have faith in our teachers, we
can learn little; without faith in our physi-
cian, we stand litthe chance of being healed ;
with no faith in Christ Jesus, we
ever lose touch with Him.”

will for-

“Lack of faith,” continued the speaker, “is
often caused by intellectual pride, which pre -
vents our subordinating anything to the in-
tellect and closes the door of our hearts to
God. breaks the contact
with God, and preventing our coming to Him

Some hidden sin
in prayér can bring a break in our faith in
Him. Perhaps we continually lay aside those
things for our every-day life that lead to
a fuller faith, and our belief in our Savior is
quickly lost.”

Dr. Lacy brought out that a loss of faith
God led to a that faith
into superstition and idolatry. “History shows

in misdirection of
us,” he said, “that whenever a nation comes
to a crisis, they turn away from God to
superstition; they leave Him to search for
something where they think they. can find
a higher power, be that thing a golden calf
or a wooden image.”

faith which
Dr. Lacy said, “insincerity

“Coming to a phase of lost

we meet often,’
of our belief is what is most prevalent in
every-day life. God abhors this sin of man-
kind more, perhaps, than all others. Christ
often denounced the people of His day for
their hypocrisy, or the insincerity of their
belief. It is the same today in our modern
life. Those crimes, such as forgery and coun-
terfeiting, which tend to destroy trust in
the good article, are punished more than
mere robbery. Our faith must be pure to
stand before God.”

“We must maintain, develop, hold to our

ake
Take
Him. We can
venture far on faith, and learning, perhaps
can trust to Him our all.”

Dr.
as a topic, “The Perfect Presentation,”

faith,” the speaker said in conclusion, ‘
Christ as your friend and trust Him.
Him as a teacher and follow

we

In his morning sermon, Lacy used
He
emphasized an unreserved sacrifice. in mak-
ing this presentation, and told his hearers 6f
a method whereby this could be accomplished.
Dr. that it through
“thinking God's thoughts.” He did not ap-
peal to a motive of self-interest in making
such presentation of one’s body, mind and
soul, but said that any such action ought
to be motivated by the love of Jesus Christ.”

Lacy contended was

Coach Younger’s Brother
is Accidentally Killed

Rawley Younger Meets Death by
Train in Lynchburg Early Last
Week

The accidental death of Rawley Younger,
of Lynchburg, Va., last week, was a great
shock to his brother, Coach Younger, and
to the Davidson student body, who felt
deeply for him, While he was walking down
the railroad track with some friends at about
I jay, ind,
was struck by a slowly moving passenger

having just finished his lunch, he

train and hurled into a canal alongside the
The persons with him happened
to be on the opposite side of the track from
the canal, and as a result*of this they could
not get to the canal to help him out. A pas-
senger from the train, however, leaped into
the water and brought him out. He was
taken immediately to the receiving hospital
in Lynchburg, but died at 4:30 p. m. the

roadbed,

same day, from severe injuries. When Coach

(Continued on page 5)
