EVERYBODY GET
READY FOR
CAROLINA
SATURDAY
AFTERNOON

he Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. KIRK
ANNOUNCES
INTENTION
TO VISIT
DAVIDSON

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1930

No. 9

Tarheels Meet Strong.
Wildcat Team Saturday
In Annual Grid Classic

Carolina Brings Fast, High-Scoring
Team to Richardson Field in
Annual Engagement

TAR HEELS ARE FAVORED

Big Crowd is Expected to Witness
Contest Between Old Foes

Those fighting Wildcats are out to stave
off the invasion of a mighty Tar Heel squad
Saturday afternoon on .Richardson Field, ‘as
Coach Chuck Collins again brings his ma-
chine to Davidson to defend his state cham-
pionship. Many have been the queries as to
whether Monk Younger’s eleven will be suc-
cessful in turning the Tar Heels back in
defeat on Saturday. Not since Davidson's
famous team of 1926 has such a deed been
accomplished.

Unless the Wildcats can cash in on their
unusual wealth of material this time, it will
probably be quite a while before such an
opportunity will present itself again. Young-
er is able to put one eleven on the field that
will almost equal any one eleven that Col-
lins can muster, but the latter’s wealth of
reserve material is far superior. In a com-
parison of man to man power, Davidson
probably has the. slight edge in the wing
department, with the tackles on a par with
each other, but Carolina’s guards are mighty
strong, due to named Fysal. Their
pivot position is due to be superior to the
Wildcats’, but it will be a merry fight be-
tween Lipscombe and Gardner, if he is able
to play. One eminent sports writer has said
that Carolina and Davidson have about
equal backfields, taking only four men at
a time out of Carolina’s “hundred” backs.

A comparison of team scores will give
some idea as to how the two teams stack
up. The Tar Heels have amassed a total
of 86 points to their opponents’ 97, while
Davidson has been running up 109 points
to their opponents’ 38 over weaker teams

(Continued on page 5)

one

Johnston Speaks on
“FormingDecisions”

Loyal Davidson Alumnus Leads
Service, Sunday, November 9

“Make your™6wn decisions,” was the ad-
vice that Mr. Joe Jobngton gave to those
present at a most interesting vesper service
last Sunday. The ability to decide for oneself,
and to decide correctly, is a long step to-
wards the acme of human quality. He chose
as his text these words, ‘Daniel purposed.”

Mr. Johnston, an old Davidson man and
still a most loyal supporter, is the head of
Barium Springs Orphanage, and the great
work that he is doing there is apt tribute to
his ability.

Much of* Daniel’s success can be traced
back to the fact that he was able to make
his own decisions. However, Barak was
forced to make his wife decide for him, and
his weak-kneed indecisiveness led to his
downfall. It is much easier to follow the
crowd and to leave all hard questions for
someone else to decide, Mr. Johnston re-
minded, but the results cannot be compared.
A habit is very easily formed out of not
deciding for oneself, merely drifting with
the crowd.

Often we exhibit a tendency to blame
others for faults of our own. In the very
beginning of life we have an exhibition of
this fact that Adam blamed Eve for his sin.
People of this day are still prone to blame
personal faults and sins on others.

David is a fine example of a man who
could make up his own mind, Mr. Johnston
said, because when he was presented with
the opportunity of fighting with Goliath, he
made up his mind immediately, not ponder-
ing and delaying it a long time as did Saul.
Jezebel is another good example of the type
that can make up their minds with no out-
side help. Every man must decide for him-
self the following question: Whether it is
safer to decide for himself after asking God’s
advice, or to follow the crowd.

Masquers Present
“The Perfect Alibi”

On Saturday night at 7 o'clock, the Red
and Black Masquers will present their first
play of the year, “The Perfect Alibi,” a
detective story in three acts. Supper will
be at 6 o'clock instead of 6:30 so that the
performance, which is calculated to last
something over two hours, can begin exactly
at 7.

The general admission to this perform.
ance is 50 cents, but student tickets are
available at 25 cents. Seats in the reserved
section are obtainable in advance.

The leading parts in the drama are taken
by Stewart Meacham and Letitia Curry,
both veteran performers at Davidson. Ed

Hancock assumes the role of butler, while |

Horace Ervin and Al Tong are week-end
guests under suspect at the house of Arthur

Ludgrove, whose part is taken by Jim Black. |

Major Fothergill and Jane West, a flapper-
ish female type, are handled by Steve White
and Carolena Moffett, respectively. Johnny
Brown is the unknowing and unsuspecting
constable, whose son, ‘‘Sergeant” (Bill Mc-
Knight), is an efficient officer of Scotland
Yard.

The direction and stage-setting are by
Prof. E. J. Erwin. Johnny Marvin will be
make-up artist.

The play has been rehearsed for a month
and a half with temporary scenery

this time, negotiations are being made with |
Salem and Converse colleges. These will be |

early in December.

Dr. Kirk to Deliver

‘Five Lectures Here

Series of Lectures to be Fifth
Created by Otts Fund

Dr. Harris E. Kirk, pastor of the Frank- |

lin Street Presbyterian Church in Baltimore,
Md., and former Moderator of the South-
ern Presbyterian General Assembly, has an-
nounced the subjects of his series of five
lectures to be delivered at Davidson next
month. The general theme of his talks will
be “Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.”

The particular subjects that he: will dis-
cuss on five successive days are: “The In-
significance of Man’s Earthly Home,” “The
Significance of Man’s Personality,” “The
Spiritual Trends of Science,” “Jesus Christ,
the Historical Manifestation of God,” and
“The Christian Conception of Man’s Place in
Nature and Beyond.”

Dr. Kirk will appear at Davidson through
a foundation fund established in 1893 by
the late Dr. J. M. P. Otts. Since the crea-
tion of the sum, four series of lectures have
been delivered by such notables as the late
Dr. Otts himself, on “Unsettled Questions”;
the late Dr. R. L. Dabney, on “Christ Our
Penal Substitute’; by the late Dr. J.

the late Dr. Walter W. Moore, on “The
Permanence of the Christian Ideal.”

Altoona, Pa—(IP)—During the

vania State College here opened an unusual

trial summer school for prospective Fresh- |

men.

Here, for six weeks, Freshmen tried their

wits at college subjects. Those who suc-
ceeded gained advanced college credits. Many
of those who failed saw their unfitness for

college work, and went to work. It is ex- |
pected that the number of men and women |
who will drop out of the college at the end |

of the first semester will be reduced greatly
as a result.

Wellesley, Mass.—(1P)—That the Amer-
ican girl is allowed far less liberty in col-
lege than the German girl, contrary to the
general impression, is the opinion of Miss
Ann de Papp, of Germany, an exchange stu-
dent at Wellesley College here.

American girls work harder at their studies
through the semester, Miss de Papp saia,
but German girls study harder for the final
examinations, which are very difficult in
Germany.

in|
Shearer. Although ‘no definite engagements |
away from Davidson have been set up to}

B. |
Shearer, on. “Modern Mysticism,” and by |

past |
summer, the Altoona branch of the Pennsyl-

Davidson Center

GUDOY DARONER- CENTE
| Star Wildcat pivot-man, who was injured
|in the Wofford game, and will be out for

| the rest of the season

Fall R.O.T.C. Scabbard
' and Blade Bids Issued

Battalion Parade Given in Honor of
Newly Chosen Men

The local chapter of the Scabbard and
Blade, national R. O. T. C. officers’ frater-
nity, issued its annual fall invitations at the
drill period last Monday. Eight men were
recipients of bids, one of these being one
of the army officers stationed here by the
|government. The men receiving bids were
las follows: Captain F. M. Cochran, D.O.L.,
Cadet Captains H. S. Covington, R. D.
| Russell, and J. F. Preston; Cadet Lieuten-
jants A. R. Jackson, C. A. Sisson, J. L.
Brock, Jr.. and J. W. McCutchan. These
|men will be initiated at a later date. When

ithe bids had been issued the battalion gave.

| i
}a parade in honor of the newly chosen men.

All of the men chosen were of the Senior
class, which is the custom of the fall invi-
tations. Captain Cochran is the member of
| the army that was issued a bid and is spend-
| ing his first year at Davidson as an asso-
|ciate professor of military science.

With regard to the cadet officers that
(Continued on page 5)

“Yow!” to Appear
Next Week —

“As Ripley so aptly puts it, ‘be-
lieve it or not,’ but the eighth won-
der of the modern world which is
known in the common vernacular as
“The Yowl” will make its debut on
the Davidson campus next week.

“The staff of the magazine re-
ports that the motto of this first
effort is: ‘Blessed is he who ex-
pecteth nothing, for he shall not be
disappointed.’ However, if it is able
to bring a little ray of sunshine into
our otherwise drab existences, then
all has not been done in vain.

“As has probably already been
guessed, the keynote of “The Yow!”
will be good, clean, wholesome fun.
A fairly constructive form of humor
has been attempted in the form of
humorous plays, poems, _ short
stories, etc. A goodly number of
|| cartoons and short jokes are also

included.”
| —Editor of “The Yowl.”

Dr. W.L. Lingle Fills
Many Engagements

a

During the past several days, Dr. Walter
Lingle, President of Davidson College, has
fulfilled many and varied engagements, and
during the coming several weeks he has a
very extensive program of speaking. On
Tuesday night, November 11, Dr. Lingle
spoke over radio station WBT in Charlotte
for fifteen minutes on the subject, “How
Schools Promote Patriotism and World Un-
derstanding.” His appearance was a part of
the celebration of the ‘American Educa-
tion Week.’ On last Sunday, Dr. Lingle
preached in the pulpit of the Myers Park
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

During the next two weeks, Dr. Lingle
will speak at the inauguration of Dr. G. L.
Humphreys as President of High Point Col-
lege, and will speak twice in the First Pres-
byterian Church of Spartanburg, S. C., on
November 16.

Later on in the month, on November 30,
Dr. Lingle goes to Princeton, N. J.,. to
speak in the Princeton Seminary chapel that
morning, and to preach in the First Pres-
byterian Church of Princeton in the evening.
Interspersed with these appearances are oa
number of minor ones throughout the state.

Early in December, the Davidson Presi-
dent is scheduled to be in Washington, D.
C., for a meeting of ‘the executive commit-
tee of the Federal Council of Churches of
Christ in America, of which he is  chair-
man.

Union Seminary
Sends Deputation

Four Men Including Two or Threé
Davidson Alumni Coming

Sunday, Davidson, in all probability, will
again have the pleasure of having a depu-

tation from Union Theological Seminary
from. Richmond, Va. As The Davidsonian
goes to press, it is not known definitely

whether they will come this Sunday, but it
is known that they will come some time in
November.

Last four men Union
down and there were two Davidson alumni
of this quartette, Jim Appleby and “Shorty”

Wilson. This there

year from came

year are a number of
Davidson men at Union and probably
two or them will be members of
the deputation. This deputation will conduct
four services, the Sunday morning service
at church, since Dr. Moffett has graciously
given ‘them his pulpit for that day, the “Y”
vesper service at 6 o'clock Sunday evening,

three of

the Sunday night service at the church, and

the night service over at the mill chapel.
The

Davidson students and the

services always enjoyed by the
“Y" is very for-
tunate in procuring them for this year. The
deputation is selected by the president of
the Seminary, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., who
was the speaker at the fall services, and
whose sermons were greatly enjoyed by the
students.

are

In the event that this deputation comes
down, they will more than likely come Sat-
urday so they can witness the Davidson-
University of North Carolina battle on Rich-
ardson Field, and they: will probably stay un-
til some time Sunday night, and be back
at the Seminary Monday morning.

Philadelphia, Pa—(1P)—A new course
of instruction to instill “social poise” in stu-
dents of Temple University is to be inaugu-
rated, according to Miss Gertrude D. Pea-
body, dean of women.

Declaring that the poise, which enables
both men and women to feel socially at ease
is as important as any other branch of learn-
ing, Miss Peabody has promised to arrange
activities which will assist students in gain-
ing ease of manner.

“Many girls,” she said, “complete their
collegé courses without, learning what the
college life is all about. She has outlined a
definite program aimed to place girls in
their proper vocations and to familiarize
them with the various phases of college ac-
tivities.

\

Present Day Education
Subject of Chapel Talk

By Prominent Classicist

Speaker is Dr. Gordon J. Laing,
Dean of Arts and Literature at
University of Chicago

URGES SELF-EDUCATION

Calls Attention to Evils of Cheap
Magazines and Theatres

Present day education, its faults and needs ;
and the value of a study of the classics as
a component of the college © curriculum,
received the attention of the Davidson stu-
dents and faculty here last Monday: during
the chapel exercises, when Dr. J. Gordon
Laing, professor of Latin and dean of the
Department of Arts and Literature at Chi-
cago University, made the morning address.

By way of introduction, Dr. Laing told
how he had come to know several Davidson
men who were taking graduate work at the
University of Chicago, and that, seeing their
excellent preparation and versatility, he had
always wanted to visit the college where
these principles had been instilled into them.
As to’ his address, he expressed the hope
that the audience was not a typical one, the
individuals of which he believed were divis-
ible into two categories: first, the ones who
fall soundly asleep forthwith; and, second,
those unfortunates who, being victims of in-
curable insomnia, must .be content to sit and
cast envious glances at their more fortunate
fellows.

The Field of Education

“Education, in its fullest sense,” asserted
Dr. Laing, “covers the entire period begin-
ning at birth, and terminating with the
death certificate, the last diploma received
by man on earth.” As an illustration of the
possibilities of life-education, or “self-educa-
tion,” the speaker cited the autobiography
of Samuel Adams; how during his life
Adams found, to his disappointment, that
there was no education at Harvard; his trip
to London in quest of learning, and how: he
returned to teach at Harvard, hoping through
teaching to learn, but again bowing to dis-

(Continued on page 5)

Morrow Comes In First
In Freshman Cake Race

Record Time is Hung up Over

bal Cross-Country Course

The first cake race ever held for Freshmen
at Davidson College was run on last Fri-
day afternoon, November 8,
by Rufus Morrow, who, according to Cap-
Pritchett,
Davidson,

and was won

tain director of physical educa-
tion at cake

record. Morrow ran the cross-country

set a new college
race
race in ten minutes and thirty seconds over

a one and seyen-tenths miles course.

The at the Richardson  sta-

dium, continued from there to the fourth tee

race began
on the college golf course, from there to and
continuing on the Concord street road, and
then was concluded back up the Concord
road to the stadium. Morrow was followed
closely by John Lafferty, who finished sec-
ond. Lanier Pratt, who finished third, fol-
lowed up a short distance behind Lafferty.

The other Freshman contéstants all com-
pleted the race, and the next thirteen who
won prizes and places:in the race are as
follows: Joe Drake, fourth; Woodside, fifth;
Boggs Corbin, sixth; Evans, seventh; Blair,
eighth; Haliburton, ninth; Fugate, tenth;
Gilmour, eleventh; Gold, twelfth; Scott,
thirteenth; Fitzgerald, fourteenth, and Park-
er, fifteenth.

Incentives to extra effort in the race were
provided in the form of cakes, pies, hair-
cuts, picture shows, and various other re-
munerations offered by the different indus-
trial and economic organizations in David-
son.

It is intended that the first cake race held
this year will set a precedent for future
Freshman classes, and that in the future it
will become an annual and looked forward
to event in the yearly routine of the Fresh-
man classes.
