THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

Thirty-Two Alumni InN. ew York
RecentlyAttended Annual Smoker

Reports Received at Davidson Indi-
cate That This Affair Was Tre-
mendous Success—One of
Largest Smokers

DR. REESE WAS HOST

Greetings From Davidson Officials
Were Read and Other Matters
Discussed

Thirty-two Davidson College alumni, liv-
ing in the vicinity of America’s metropolis,
New York, on Tuesday night, November
25, took advantage of the hospitality of Dr.
A. B. Reese, 17, president of the New York
chapter, and met at the home of Dr. Reese
at 50. W. 52nd Street, for the annual smoker
of one of the oldest of Davidson's local
alumni chapters. |

Reports coming to Davidson from indi-
viduals in New York told of.the remark-
able success of the gathering, which was de-
scribed as one of the largest smokers. ever
staged. However, more alumni attend the
annual dinner on March 15 of each year, for
last March there were a total of 51 New
York alumni who met at the Fraternity
Club. In regard to the smoker Tuesday, the
secretary wrote that those attending “ex-
tended heartfelt sympathy to the unfortunate
alumni who could not come.”

Among matters coming before the chap-
ter were the reading of greetings from three
officials at Davidson, Dr. W. L.,Lingle, ’92,
president of the college; Dr. J. M. McCon-
nell, ’99, dean of instruction, and Ernest
Milton, '26, alumni secretary. All three of
these men have met with the New York
chapter on previous occasions, Dr. Lingle
speaking last March, and Dr. McConnell
the year, before.

Brief discussion of plans for the annual
Founders’ Day banquet next March claimed
some of their attention. The chapter voted
and instructed the secretary of the organiza-
tion to send a telegram to Coaches Younger
and Tilson and to the Davidson Wildcats,
wishing them success in their game with
Wake Forest Thanksgiving.

As reported to the alumni secretary, “the
rest of the evening was delightfully spent in
renewing friendships and in doing full jus-
tice to a delicious houffet supper offered
by our host.”

Alumni attending the smoker were: (Un-
less otherwise designated, the alumni listed
below reside in New York City.)

' 1898—J. D. Woodside.

1903—Henry Alan Johnston.

1905—A. S. Dennison.

1907—W. P. Anderson, Dr. R. T. Reid.

1911—C. S. Mattison.
1912—Dr. R. E. Watkins, Belmar, N. J.
; 1914—Dr. C. A. Hart, Dr. W. R. Nor-
ris, Long Island, N. Y.

; 1915—J. E. Faw.

1917—Dr. A. B. Reese.

' 1919—Emery Flinn, Prof. R. C. Garth.
| 1921—Hadley A. Hifll.

1922—Dr. C. A. Dunn.

; 1924—Dr. W. Z. Bradford.

1925—R. W. Oeland, Long Island City.

1926—J. C. Barrington, C. E. Houston.

1927—E. E. Lingle, R. L. Mitchell, New-
ark, N. J.

1928—John M. Andrew, D, Dwight Doug-
las, E. R. Houston, M. C. O'Neal, D. O.
Westbrook, Jr., B. A. Wilson.

_,1929—John Ely, Jr., G. H. Green, W.N.
Middleton. :
.1930—S. Y. Cassells.

: Honorary—Fred L. Dendy.

' Bryan University, a memorial to the man
who was the United States’ foremost expo-
nent of fundamentalism, opened: its doors
this year at Dayton, Tenn., where Bryan
died while engaged in his last great fight
for his beloved cause.

!

_s J. B.: “Has Claude begun takin’ music
Geisons yet?” ae

.| “Shine”: “He's takin’ somefin’ on th’
‘piano, but I can tell yet whether it’s music
‘or typewritin’.” ; :

Alumni Personals |

R. W. Graves, ’26, who studied for three
years in the physics department of Prince-
ton University, became interested in bio-
physics and has decided to return to his
“first love,” medicine. He is now a student
in the medical department of Duke Univer-
sity.

Visitors to the alumni office during the
past week have been Rev. W. A. Murray,
96, of Black Mountain; Geo. D. Green, II,
21, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. A. Lake, Jr., ’25,
Greenville, Miss.; Ed Patten, '29, Calypso;
W. M. Regen, '29, Franklin, Tenn.; E. C.
Close, ’30, Chattanooga, Tenn., and A. L.
DeCamp, 30, Philadelphia, Pa.

Other alumni who have been at Davidson
during the past several days include C. L.
Grey, '92, Hendersonville; Rev. Roy Smith,
10, Callaway, Va.; Rev. McDowell Rich-
ards, ’22, Clarksville, Ga.; Joe H. McCon-
nell, ’27, Charlottesville, Va.; J. W. Grey,
'28, Charlotte, and W. R. Grey, Jr., 28,
New York.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford 23, who is now
at Kinston; has been sent to the Pacific
Coast League by the Cincinnati National
League club. Mr. Crawford this fall went
to the Cincinnati club from the New York
Giants.

Rey. J. E. Thacker, D.D., '90, one of
the South’s most prominent evangelists, con-
ducted services at the Presbyterian Church
in Selma, N. C., last week. Dr. Thacker’s
home is in Norfolk, Va.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, mem-
ber of the Union Seminary faculty, preacher
at the First Presbyterian:Church in Greens-
boro Sunday.

R. B. Evans, Jr., '27, of Fayetteville, was
in a Fayetteville hospital for a short time
following a recent accident. No bones were
broken when an automobile he was driving
struck a tree. He was severely bruised, how-
ever.

Judge E. McA. Currie, 16, will be inter-
locutor for the “Jollies of 1930,”.a minstrel
to be presented at Charlotte Friday night.

Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., ’10, Mayor of Char-
lotte, positively announced fast week that
he would not be a candidate for re-election.

Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, of Pineville,
member of the 1910 football state cham-
pions, has written some poetry following the
reunion here on Home-Coming Day, a copy
of which will be sent by the alumni office
next week to all members of the 1910
squad.

Rev. W. K. Blake, ’16, formerly of Miami,
Fla., is now at 1525 E. Lake Boulevard,
Tarrant, Ala.

LOOKING ’EM OVER
(Contin(ued from page 3)
our guess, The biggest upset of the day
would be for Georgia Tech to beat Geor-
gia. We pick the University to win 21 to 0.
Notre Dame plays Southern California

Li J ’

Old Chambers

By Rev. F. J. Hay, ’14

Old Chambers Hall,

Thine ivied wall

In mem’ry holdeth fast
An image clear,

From year to year,

That aye and aye shall fast.

Old Chambers Hall,

Thine echoing hall

With phantom medleys ring
Of hastening steps,

And joyous lips,

And carefree hearts that sing.

Old Chambers Hall,

Thy columns tall

In fancy stand guard still,
Their watch to keep

While students sleep

And northwind howls at will.

Old Chambers Hall,

We love thee, all,

And hold thy mem’ry well;
Each legend loved,

Each myth unproved
Forevermore we'll tell.

Old Chambers Hall,

Woe worth thy fall!

How fell the mighty then!

No dearer home,

Nor statelier dome

Shall stand where thou hast been.

Alumni Deaths |

Dr. H. H. Cauble, 08

Dr. Harold Hartley Cauble, member of
the 1908 class of the North Carolina Med-
ical College when it was in existence at
Davidson, and prominent physician of Kan-
napolis, was found dead in bed at the Yad-
kin Hotel, in Salisbury, on November 20,
Heart trouble was the cause of his death.

In addition to attending the North Caro-
lina Medical College at Davidson, Dr.
Cauble. was at one time a student of Le-
noir-Rhyne. For many years he practiced
medicine at Faith, near Concord, before he
went to Kannapolis, where he became prom-
inent as a drug store owner and physician.

out on the Pacific Coast to cinch its
second successive national title if it wins.
This game is a poser. The Irish seemed to
have been seriously weakened by the loss
of Savoldi, and the sharp change of tem-
perature between South Bend and Los
Angeles may be too great a handicap on
them. But we look for them to come
through with their 19th win in two years,
with a score of about 14 to 7.

DAVIDSON SELECTS
(Continued from page 3)

Johnny Branch will likely be the only
man to get unanimous choice. This Carolina
quarter was just about the most valuable
man any team in the State possessed, and is
a triple threat man deluxe. Against David-
son he was just about the whole Tar Heel
backfield. He punts, passes and runs in a
sensational manner. Benton gets the other
quarter position with practically no opposi-
tion.

Murray gets one of the other backfield
positions easily, being one of the outstand-
ing ball-carriers on the Blue Devils’ team.
The other two are hard to fill. Magner’s

«a !

When You’re Hungry
Let Z
Helper Help You

HELPER’S RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office

73

EDITORIAL

Davidson College has already been enriched through the thoughtfulness
of her alumni, and friends of the institution, whenever a will was made. These
people remembered what the institution had meant to them, or knew of the
invaluable contribution this almost century-old institution was rendering man-
kind in giving to the citizenship of the land Christian-trained men whose educa-
tional preparation and religious leadership were beacon lights to their associates.

Those of you who have read advertisements from Davidson recently, both
in the secular and religious press, are aware that the college has been placed
in the wills of alumni or others interested in the college for considerably large
sums. For instance, one will contains $100,000 for Davidson, and another
$20,000. These individuals have already informed college authorities of this
step.

An alumnus wrote to a Davidson official some time ago, saying that he
was making a will, and asked. if there was any special department, or any par-
ticular fund, to which the college would desire the money to be designated.
Two other alumni of classes that graduated from Davidson within the past five
years have likewise made their wills, and though their estates are comparatively
small, the college has been rememberd for a portion of them.

This idea is gradually permeating the entire alumni body of Davidson. It
is thought by some that in the next half-century, Davidson will be materially
benefited by the sums of money that come into the treasury through the chan-
nels of wills. It is believed that the financial future, which is generally a future
of every department of the college, is going to be assured through this medium.

Many people, during their lifetime, are not able to follow their heart’s
desire and contribute sums of money to the college. However, their estates
may permit this, through the insurance that alumni carry, and the men are
happy in the thought-that they are rendering a valuable service to the institu-
tion which nurtured them.

Since the establishment of the alumni office, the urging of alumni to make
wills has been adopted as a part of the office’s program. Most of its endeavor
will be through publicity, and in a general way at local alumni meetings by
making this suggestion to the alumni to think about and act upon. Anything
said or written in promoting this program will always be done in the best
interests of the institution, with the belief that this offers the alumni a means
of showing their regard, where otherwise it might not be possible.

Or, if you are unable to do this; if your estate is such that your family
needs it, perhaps you might be able to influence your friends to take this step.
There are several instances on record where alumni have done this, for they
have pointed out to wealthy parties the service that Davidson is rendering, and
those able to leave large sums of money have left a portion of it to Davidson.
We believe that alumni influence, not only in reference to the above. but in

many ways, is of intrinsic value, and we hope that you will always avail your-
self of this opportunity.

uncle of Mr. Hunter, performed the cere-
mony. J. E. Hunter, '23, of Charlotte, was
best man; groomsmen were Brown McCal-
lum, ’25, and Thomas McSwain, '25, both
of Dillon, S. C., and Conray Clarke, ’27,

| Alumni Marriages

Hunter-Chamness

Charles Richards Hunter, 1925 graduate
of Davidson, and Miss Christine Chamness
were married at the Blenheim Presbyterian
Church in Blenheim, S. C., on November
26. Dr. C. M. Richards, ’92. of Davidson,

passing gives him a slight edge, perhaps,
but his ball-carrying has not heen what it
was last year. Mills has shone all fall and
has stood out in a backfield of three other
good men. McCall is one of the fastest men
in the State in a broken field, but has had
difficulty at times .in getting into the open
when his line has failed him. Brewer and
Slusser are the best of the remaining lot,
and not far behind the rest chosen.

This first string backfield contains two
triple threat artists. Two of them can throw
passes like baseballs. Two are fine ‘punters.
All four of them can carry the ball in a
fashion to please the heart of any coach.

Faculty members of the Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary have denied charges that
they are “modernistic.”

of Elizabethtown. Ushers included D. C.
Hunter, ’30, of Belmont, and Marion Hun-
ter, ’31, of Davidson.

_ Since graduating from Davidson, Mr.
Hunter has been teaching. For some time
he was at Elizabethtown, and when the
Maxton Junior College was formed, he ac-
cepted a position with that institution. He
has done graduate work at the University
of North Carolina. Mrs. Hunter is a gradu-
ate of Chicora College, and for the past two
years has been teaching in the Kershaw
(S. C.) High School.

Mr. and Mrs. Hunter are at home at
Maxton, N. C.

-Johnston-Washam
Robert Irvin Johnston, of Davidson, and

Miss Sara Day Washam were quietly mar-
ried on November 21 at the home of the
bride in Cornelius. Mr. Johnston attended
Davidson in the class of 1925, and since leav-
ing school has been in the employ of White
Drug Company at Davidson. Mrs. Johnston
is a graduate of Long’s Sanatorium, at
Statesville. Mr. and Mrs. Johnston are now

at home in Davidson. :

Garland Court

Printing and Engraving
of
Every Description

J. A. CANNON
311 Watts |

STANDARD PRINTING CO.

Charlotte, N. C.

