THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

5

Varsity and Freshmen
Harriers Run Saturday

Varsity Meets South Carolina,
While Freshmen Run
Winston-Salem High

Saturday morning will find both the var-
sity and the Freshman cross-country teams
in action, the varsity running against South
Carolina and the Freshmen competing with
Winston-Salem High School.

The varsity race will start first and will
be run over a three-mile course. starting
beyond the gulleys and ending in front of
the stadium. The five men who will rep-
resent Davidson are Brannon, Neil, Murphy,
Earle and Drake. The race will start at 11
o'clock.

The Freshman race will start a few min-
utes after the varsity race has been run
from the same place, and will be run over
a two-mile course, ending in front of the
stadium. There will be five point men oa
the Freshman team, but there will be seven
men running. The point men are Morrow,
Lafferty, Pratt, J. Drake and Woodside.
The other two men running are Blair and
Gilmer.

These races are being held in the morning
so that the two visiting teams may have an
opportunity to see the Carolina game Sat-
urday afternoon.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

(Taken from the “Million Dollar Cam-
paign Issue” of January 15, 1920.)

There is no one thing which would stimu-
late the Presbyterians of North Carolina to
be liberal when asked to contribute to the
Million Dollar Campaign for their insti-
tutions than,a big gift by the students of
these institutions. To that end the campaign
managers have asked the students of Da-
vidson to subscribe $10,000. This
subscription is not a cash proposition, but
is to extend over a period of four years, and
that ought to be ample time for those in
financial difficulties to recover and get into
a position enabling them to help out.

College

The $10,000 campaign will be started next
week on the night of Monday, the 19th,
and the subscriptions will be taken by dormi-
tory. This is entirely a student affair, and
the managers of the campaign have sent a
graduate down here to superintend it.
are-going-to do it ourselves, and it behooves
us to go over the top a long distance, for
the! more the students give, the more will
be given by those who support the college,
and the greater the benefit thereby.

The following is the list of managers by
dormitories. They will select their teams ‘vho

will make the rounds Monday night. When |

they come around, just remember that this
not a cash subscription, and that $23
apiece will do the work.

‘Georgia—D. M. Chalmers; Watts—J. R.
Boulware, Jr.; Rumple, right side—L. G.
Calhoun; Rumple, left side—A. L. Wilson;
Chalmers, south wing—J. R. McKeldin;
Chambers, north wing—L. B. Schenck, and
Louisiana—A.,.L. Currie.

is

(Taken from files of November 12, 1925)

The Davidson Wildcats and the Carolina
Tar Heels will meet Saturday afternoon on
Emerson Field, at Chapel Hill, in the annual
gridiron clash between the two rivals. The

game will be a great struggle between two.

valiant teams. As to comparative scores, the
Wildcats seem to have the edge, since they
tied Wake Forest, who had defeated Caro-
lina the week preceding the Baptists’ clash
with Davidson. But this was weeks ago, and
the Tar Heels have developed wonderfully
since that time. The showing of Carolina
against Maryland and V. M. I. indicate that
the Chapel Hill men have a great team, and
one to be feared by any eleven in the South.

This is only the second time the two teams
have clashed on the home grounds of. the
Tar Heels, the first time being year before
last, when the Wildcats lost to the tune of
a 14-3 score. Last year on their home
grounds the Presbyterians lost by the margin
of two field goals. Davidson has only won
three since the first back in 1891.

Thus far this season, Carolina has lost
only one game, that being the first of the
season with Wake Forest. Since then the
Tar Heel aggregation has materially im-
proved, while the Wildcats have remained
about the same.

Comparative scores are interesting, but
to predict the outcome of a game such as
this by them is utter folly. Many upsets
have happened in less time than two min-
utes and there is always a chance for an
upset in a Wildcat-Tar Heel fray.

If Davidson wins it will clinch the state
title, but if Carolina wins the issue will
be a toss-up, since Carolina has been beaten
by Wake Forest in an early season game.

We |

| Books We Have Read

The Mystery of 31, New Inn. By R. Austin
Freeman. 311 pp. Dodd, Mead & Co. New}
York. 1930. Available at the Civic League
Library.

Dr. Jervis, while making the rounds for
his friend, a Dr. Stillbury, is lured, in an-
swer to a mysterious note, over a zigzag
and obviously misleading road to the abode
ot an old sick gentleman who is under the
care of. a rather obscure and reticent Mr.
Weiss, and a middle-aged lady with a squint
in her eye, named Mrs. Schallibaum. His
diagnosis of the case is poison by morphine.
Mr. Weiss’ positive insistence upon the im-
possibility of such a theory, together with his
strange and retiring manner, convinces Dr.
Jervis of foul play.

He is powerless, however, to do anything
but report the matter to his warm friend
and future employer, Dr. Thorndyke, an
eminent authority on medical jurisprudence.
By him Jervis advised to construct a
rough map of the next journey he makes
in the locked carriage, by compass indica-

is

tion, and to confirm, if possible, his theory
of morphine poisoning.

According to instruction, Jervis does ac-
cordingly on his next summons. On this call
he is more than ever convinced of foul play.
Mr. Weiss, though
thinks Jervis suspects too much, for he does

crafty shy, evidently

not again call him.

Dr. Stillbury then returns to his business
and Jervis is released from: his duties on

that round, whereupon he is engaged as
Thorndyke’s junior.
Meanwhile an unusual case involving

change in a will is brought to Thorndyke's

attention by a client whose uncle, Jeffrey
Blackmore, testator, has recently died, In
the first will, executed two years before this

time, Jeffrey Blackmore had made his nephew

Stephen, the present client, executor and sole
legatee, to which he added in a few months’
time codicil
with the sum of 250° pounds.

a favoring his brother John

On the fifteenth of March Jeffrey yas
found dead in his chambers and a more fe-
jeent will was then. discovered, which prac-
tically duplicated the first in all except a
provision naming John Blackmore executor
and residuary legatee. This in itself was not
Startling, but for the fact that
before the decease. of Jeffrey, their sister,
Mrs. Edmund Wilson, died, leaving her en-
tire estate to Jeffrey.

two days

By the terms of the
erty would go to John,

new will, this prop-
whereas by the first
will, Stephen would have been the recipient
by. Jeffrey’s order. The question then arises
las to whether the second will is genuine.

John Thorndyke, the author’s Sherlock
Holmes, working on the case with the as-
sistance*of Jervis, arrives at a solution which
identifies Jeffrey Blackmore as the dying
|man visited by Jervis and John Blackmore
as the strange Mr. Weiss, a malicious and |
unscrupulous scoundrel who, having  ob-
tained Jeffrey’s signature to the second will, |
| while the latter was under the influence of |
|morphine, cruelly disposes of him by fre- |
| quent overdoses of the poisonous drug. |

Mrs. Schallibaum turns out to be John’s |
wife who commits no greater crime than |
assisting at Jeffrey’s slow murder and at- |
tempting “Jervis’ life in The
story with the reported’ suicide of |
John and his wife, fugitives from justice. |

a tearoom.

closes

One might, be inclined to wonder that the |
book bears the title of “mystery,” so obvious- |
ly identical is Jervis’ case of the poisoned |
man with Thorndyke’s enigma of two wills, |
at least to the reader, if not to Thorndyke
and the flabbergasted Jervis. The author
risks too much of the suspense’ element by
having the one case so easily identifiable
with the other. The reader, who is “in” on
the mystery almost at the outset, must be
content with reading Thorndyke's methods of |
procedure and Jervis’ amazement at them.

The conversation is good, but the author
at times dwells too lengthily on insignificant
facts.

H. W. Erwin.

SCABBARD AND BLADE

(Continued from page 1)

were issued bids: J. F. Preston is captain-
adjutant of the battalion and his home is
|in Davidson. H. S. Covington is captain of
| Company “B” and is from Red Springs,
|N. C. R. D. Russell is captain of the band;
| his home is in Graham, N. C. C. A. Sisson
|is a cadet first lieutenant and lives in Winona,
| Miss. J. W. McCutchan is a cadet first lieu-
tenant and is from Warm Springs, Va. J. L.
| Brock is also a cadet first lieutenant and lives
|in Florence, Ala. A. R. Jackson is a cadet
pitees lieutenant; his home is in Williams-
port, Pa.

Big Five Standings
Played Won Lost Pct.

2 0 1,000
1 0 1.000
1 1 -500
Wake Forest __-2 1 1 500
State cues ceveoes Z 0 2 000

ito

TAR HEELS MEET STRONG

(Continued from page 1)

as a whole, however. The greatest margin |

of victory over the Wildcats was made by
Duke in their two-touchdown win, while
Georgia rung up four touchdowns over the
Tar Heels. Carolina trimmed Virginia Poly
by six touchdowns to three, while the Gob-
blers and Davidson made three apiece. But
Davidson takes State into camp by a mar-
Tar
Heels could only do by a one-touchdown
margin. State was greatly rejuvenated
team, though, when Carolina met them,

gin of two scores, a thing which the
a

Carolina began her season by being held

to a surprisingly low score by a_ strong

Wake Forest team. This game proved to he.

a battle between a veteran Deacon line and
an untried Tar Heel forward wall. The de
fense was featured by the play of Lipscombe

and Parsley and the offense by the Tar
Heels, completing 10 out of 18 passes.
Passes rained the next Saturday up in

Virginia as the Tar Heels scored more than
Virginia Poly to beat them, 39-21, The same
was true for the Maryand game the next
fighting
through, the whole Maryland team for 94

week-end, with Branch his way
yards and the deciding score, The Old Liners
outpointed Carolina in first downs, the count
being 13 to 8.

Georgia was too strong for the Tar Heels
the next Saturday, to snow them under to
the of 26-0.

Carolina line fought off every scoring threat

tune For three’ quarters the
except one, but no sooner had the last quar-
ter gotten under way than the bottom fell
out from under the Carolina defense and the

Georgians, led by the famous Jack ‘The
Ripper” Roberts, added three more tallies
their lone survivor of the first three

quarters,

Tennessee, the second of those three sti
foes on Carolina's grid card to appear in
a row, barely nosed out a fighting Tar Heel
the
of a safety early in the game, The game

eleven by a two-point margin, result
was featured by the spectacular return of
punts by Branch, the line play of Fysal and
Lipscombe and the dashes of Slusser.

The Golden Tornado was next met by the

now waning Tar

streak, Carolina outplayed Tech, but
nevertheless tied by some unexplainable trick
of the game. The Tar Heels rained passes
as was their custom, and they were suc-

Was

cessful to a great extent. Tech’s two pow-
erful tackles, Maree and Speer, were much
in evidence throughout the whole. battle.
Playing on Friday in order not to con-
flict with the Kentucky-Duke scrap on Sat-
urday, N. C. State threw a scare into Caro-

lina followers by fighting the Tar Heels an
even battle most of the way. Carolina won,
13-7, but it was State who supplied the
thrills of the game, with big Sam Gurneau
leading the way. State was an absolutely
changed team from that which met Davidson
early in the season, playing heads-up  foot-

Heels in a fight, one. to |
javenge the stinging defeat of the year be-
fore, the other to break a growing losing |

ball and also presenting a’ well-oiled ma-

| chine,

| PRESENT DAY EDUCATION

(Continued from page 1)
appointment. However, as it is recorded, he
did come to find the real meaning of self-
education in evidence at the Chicago World
Exposition,

Elementary Education
“Education of this sort,” said Dr. Laing,
“TL would define as the sum total of all the
experiences which aid in the development of

latent talents.” “And,” he added, “certainly

we all have some talent.”

“Find what the child's faculty is,” urged
Dr. Laing, in pointing out the real basis
of elementary schooling. “Of the 120,000,-
OO) people in the country,” he added, “there
are thousands and thousands of children with
vast resources of talent. But much of it re-
mains undiscovered, and therefore undevel-
oped, and drifts away into the work-a-day
world, and oblivion, and is never heard of
again.”
@ College Years
According to Dr. the

years of college should portend to basie prin-

Laing, first two
ciples, while the last two years should be
to students the

greatest possible choice in special fields ot

broadened in’ scope allow
individual interest. “Tlowever all this,” says
Dr
sequent activity, for the greatest period. of
all that the four

years of academic work.” In it, the speaker

Laing, “is only a foundation for sub

should) be which follows
maintained, extensive reading of good litera
ture should be developed and cultivated, as
well as attempts made to develop the abil
ity to write. “There are many people in the
country today,” he affirmed, “who could
have been great writers but aren't; while
can't write well,

there are: also who

but do.”

many

Cheap Literature

One of the greatest evils in the reading
field of today, Dr. Laing pointed out, is that
of cheap magazines, wherein one finds at-
at
dazzling (?) sports write-ups by amateurs
“from the who than
nothing about the subject; and, revelations

tempts humor by would-be humorists ;

bushes,” know less

of love experiences, featuring the inevitable

“oirl with penciled eyebrow, and golden
hair,’ ete, and the “handsome, dauntless
hero,” and so on, all for monetary gain
alone, and totally unfit to read. “Some,

j/ nevertheless,” added the speaker, ironically,

| “seeing the truth of this, do even extend
their reading level up as far as Harold Bell
Wright and Zane Grey!.’

| “Exploitation of the Ephemeral”

| Another reason given by Dr, Laing why
/high-brows are so rampant today, and why
}such signs as “Don’t let your ‘studies inter-
'fere with your college education” are seen

jin students’ rooms, is the cheap theater.
\“A cheap play,” he pointed out, “now. re-
| quires only a little jazz, and it is proclaimed
|a success.” And he further added that the
“ ‘follies’ of today, as staged by Ziegfeld and
others, are scientific experiments, pure and
simple, to determine the minimum amount
of clothing that can be worn by performers.
The programs are, all in all, silly, senti-
| mental, and He held up for
comparison to these the standards of the

suggestive.”

| theater in Athens many long years ago, when
a play of Sophocles, for instance, or some

portrayal of the fall of Pride, or some
familiar legend was being enacted, ‘“accom-
panied by the solemn chants of a robed

chorus,” which gave its spectators “some-
thing to carry home,” “an abiding impres-
sion of the merits of their fellow man, and
God.”

Reading With a Purpose
For constructive reading, Dr. Laing recom-

their

mended a habit of “reading with reference
to the style of the book, the occasion of its
origin, and its effect on subsequent. litera-
ture, and not for the contents alone.” “Read
for ideals, as well as for ideas,” he urged.
He gave instances of different
found different phases of literature especially

men who

appealing and helpful to them in their work,
jamong them Walter Lee, who became a
| great Greek scholar in spare moments be-
j tween banking hours; and how he made im-
| portant discoveries about the Trojan war,
the truth of which had lain hidden for cen-
ee Others, he said, aré attracted by the
| works of Italian artists, as Raphael, Mich-
Jaclangelo, and Dante; not for their sensuous
| appeal, but for theif? compejling technique
and dexterity, which offers a world of in-

| spiration, “AC
| Value of Self-Education in Professions
| According to Dr. Laing, a young clergy-
Hman should have something more than the
expression of his faith to offer his audience.
| His message will never go further than the
pulpit railing. “There will be,” he said, “ears
lthat hear not, and eyes that see not; then,
'hefore anyone is aware, the sermon is over,

| the cc
Lawyers, as

‘liverance past, the message futile.”
well, this
Dr. for
knows what the next lawsuit will deal with,

need outside ex-

pansion, claims Laing, one never
nor where it may carry him, and knowledge
acquired from outside, constructive reading
“one step ahead.”

liter-
ary broadening, affirmed the speaker, using

will always keep him

Engineers need self-edueation, and
as an illustration a brilliant young engineer
who, although wealthy and successful, felt
there was something lacking and upon the
of Andrew

“Odyssey,” became fascinated, and took up

advice a friend read Lang's
the study of Greek and came to find real
happiness and satisfaction in the golden ap-

peal of ancient expression.

Laing urged each and
author,

In conclusion, Dr.
every student to
group of authors, or some literary period in
most “in

choose some or

which they were interested, and
the end it will yield you a ‘castle of en-
and different of the

richness of human experiences.”

chantment,’ a aspect

stand

ne will
Out

they S alisfy

always

CHESTERFIELD CIGARETTES are manufactured by LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
