6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1930
Review Schedule
Period | Wednesday | Thursday |Friday Saturday Monday | Tuesday Wednesday Thursday |Friday Saturday |

8:25 [Bible 1A Fren. Aa Eng. 1A,C Eng. 1H ‘Math. 1E Econ. 1A Span. Ab oe Hak ic | First Semester
to —_|Bible 1C Bible 2E Fren, 2A Phys. 2C ‘Biol. 3 ee ik. 1D Gre LA lOct. 8.18
9:20 |Math. 2A Bible 2F Fren, 2B ae: te : Nov. 5-15

| : Phys. 2B e iB. |Dec. 3-13

: | Bible ing. Span. 1C Span. 1A Math. 1A Math. 1K Ger. 1A Ger. 1B Chem. |
dod Bible iD Ene 1D ae ae Math, 1C Econ. 1B Eng. 2B,D Lat. 2B Hist. 1B | Second Semester
10:35 |Math. 2B Eng. 1F |Math. 1F Lat. Ab Be Me 33

‘Phys. 2A Span. 2A |Biol. 2B | |Mar. 18-
: a e Apr. 22-May 2

10:40 Bible 1E Bible 2A Eng. 1G Span. 1B Math. 1M Math. 1G Lat. 1A Chem. 1C

to Bible 1G Bible 2C Grk. 2A Span. Ad
11:35 Fren. Ac |

? | 2 Grk. 1B

11:35 Bible 1F Fren. Ab Eng, 1E Fren. 1A |Math. 1B Lat. Aa Lat: 1B F

to |Bible 1H Bib. 2B,D Eng. 11 Fren. 1C |Math. 1D Grk. 2B Phys. 1
12:30 (Chem. 3 Chem. 2 Span. 1D |Biol. 2C Biol. 2A Chem. 1A

1:15 {Math. 2C | Span. 2B Math. 1H \Biol. 2D Span. Aa Eng. 2F

to iGer. Ab Eng. 2G .
2:10 |Math. 11
2:10 Eng. 1K Fren. 1B Math. 1L Span. Ac

to Fren. 1D
3:05 |

; ROTC 1
aE | ROTC 2
4:00

Review schedule for Freshmen and Sophomores. According to Faculty regulations reviews are not restricted to the above schedule. If,
y

dates outlined it must conform to schedule.

however, a re view of a Freshman or Sophomore subject is given during the time of the

Mr. J. B. Johnston Will
Talk at Vespers Nov. 9

Was Member of O. D. K. and Center
on 1901 Football Team |

Davidson students, faculty, and townspeo-
ple will be interested to learn that Mr. J. B.
Johnston, superintendent of Barium Springs
Orphanage and an ardent alumnus: of Da-
vidson, will speak next Sunday afternoon at
the “Y” vesper service, at 6 o'clock.
| teeta

Throughout his stay at Davidson, and since
he left her portals, Mr. “Joe” has ever
proved to be a loyal and loving adherent to
the college and what it stands for.

In the year 1901 Mr. Johnston play®a
center on the Davidson eleven and, as his con-
temporaries assert, his value to the team
was inestimable. According to tradition, Mr.
Johnston attended college at a time when
“men were men,” more than ever before;
and the story has been told by Mr. Johnston

himself, that upon one occasion, when it}

seemed that one of the opposing team was
headed for the zero line, and with a clear
field in front of him, that he (Mr. Johnston)
pulled off his helmet and heaved it with all
his might at the fleeing opponent, striking
him squarely on the back of his head, drop-
ping him as neatly as any tackle could have,
and saving the day for the home team.

Among other things, Mr. Johnston was ‘a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He has
had influential positions in the management
of several industrial enterprises and since
then has directed notably the affairs of Ba-
rium Springs. He has even been mefitioned
for Governor of North Carolina. He recently
received an invitation from President Hoo-
ver to attend a discussion at the White
House, in which he will participate as a
representative of the Child Welfare Asso-
ciation of the South.

“ The Princeton University Ivy Club has
hung a portrait of a waiter who in thirty
years is reputed scarcely ever to have for-
gotten a man’s tastes.

Miss Carman Barnes, 16, who wrote
“School Girl,” was dismissed from the Gard-
ner School in New York after the book was
published.

Twenty-six per cent of the annual income
of residents of the United States is spent
on food.

The Best Thing Out

It can be
truly saio
of Fire that
it is the
best thing
out.

-There’s
trouble
when it
starts; more trouble when it’s
burning; and most trouble after
it’s out————unless you have
enough Fire Insurance fully to re-
place the damaged and destroyed
property.

This agency sells the safest
Stock Fire Insurance out, and is
glad to make certain you won't be
out money after the fire is out.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
insurance Department 5)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

~ McAlistér Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

Davidsonian Staff
: Picks Best Papers

Perhaps this year The Davidsonian has
been the recipient of more exchanges than
have ever come to the staff of this paper
in the -past. There are between thirty and
forty university, college, and prep school
papers on the mailing list, thus necessitating
the formation of a new department. This
department is enthusiastic about the work
and believes that a great deal of benefit will
accrue from these exchanges.

The editorial staff has released a list of
the five papers which it deems to have been
the best placed regularly in the hands of
the exchange department during the month
of October. These are named in the order
of their excellence: The Emory Wheel, Em-
ory University; The Targum, Rutgers Uni-
versity; The Gettysburgian, Gettysburg Col-
lege; The Orange and White, University
of Tennessee; The Agonistic, Agnes Scott
College. Of course there were other papers

worthy of mention, but these five top the
list.

SIX MEN TAPPED

(Continued from page 1)
and he belongs to the Philanthropic Liter-
ary Society..

Manager of football, A. W. McLean is
from Lumberton, N. C. He was business
manager of the Wildcat handbook, a mem-
ber of the Beaver Club, and on the Sopho-
more banquet committee. He belongs to
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

C. A. Sisson, from Winona, Miss., is
manager of track for the season 1930-31.
He has been on the business staff of Quips
and Cranks, the Reporters’ Club, and be-
longed to the Beaver Club. He is a mem-
ber of Phi Gamma ‘Delta, social fraternity,
and the Eumenean Literary Society.

Seniors already members of Delta Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa are: A. R. Bird,
Jr., editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks ;
W. W. Fraley, captain of the football team;
W. B. Goodson, president of the Athletic
Association; C. H. Goodykoontz, president
of the Student Body; D. S. LaFar, presi-
dent of the Senior class; J. W. McCutchan,
editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, and Dean
Rusk, president of the Y. M. C. A. and
major of the R. O. T. C. battalion.

PRESS CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)

the next convention, which will be some
time in the spring, 1931. It is thought, though
not definitely decided upon, that Davidson
and Queens-Chicora colleges ‘will act as
hosts. The new officers will be elected at
that time. The convention adjourned at 11
o'clock Saturday morning.

The Davidsori delegates were: Bob King,
treasurer ; Bill Lea, Quips and Cranks; Sam
Wiley, Davidsonian; Ben Mosely, Quips and
Cranks; Archie Baker, Davidsonian; Cros-
well Ragin, “The Yowl’; Archie Hender-
lite, “The Yowl.”

PLANS FOR LIBRARY

(Continued from page 1)

large number of books received in the next
three years, this of course, includes the
statement made above concerning the shelves,
tables, and lighting, so that books-will be
available for immediate use. The second end
that is being studied is the possibility of a
new library building for the college. The
building will be adequately endowed if such
a plan were.to materialize.

Dr. Wilson sent a tentative report ot the
college before his final report last night.
It dealt with the question of re-arrangement
of the present library and a budget for sup-
port.

All these plans are being given due con-
sideration by the library committee and their
decision will be learned at a later date.

There is an automobile in the United
States for every four and one-half pérsons.

Blasting and riveting, the two loudest
sounds in cities today, are 10,000,000 times
more intense than the smallest sounds that
can be detected by the human ear.

People with salaries of below $675 a year
in England pay in taxes each year a total of
$950,000,000.

Curfew, in accordance with an ancient
custom, is sounded by four blasts on a horn
at 9 o’clock every night in the market place
of Ripon, England.

Of the 53,627 Civil War pensioners re-
maining, 5,000 are totally helpless or blind.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson Theatre

“Way of

Monday and Tuesday

a Sailor”

With
JOHN GILBERT

Wednesday
“On Your Backs”

Thursday
“Heads Up”

Friday
“A Lady of Morals”

Saturday
“Virtuous Sin”

MD AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA AL

WOFFORD TERRIERS

(Continued from page 1)
The Terriers twice drove the ball inside the
20-yard line but lacked the punch to pene-
trate the Blue Stocking wall for the needed
points.

The next week-end the Terriers reached
the heights by holding a powerful Duke
University eleven to two touchdowns. The
Blue Devils were forced to display theif full
bag of tricks and their best brand of foot-
ball down in Spartanburg that Saturday.
The Terriers clicked like a real machine
for the first time during the season, holding
the Blue Devils in check the first period and
battling on even terms with them. Reverse
plays which defeated Davidson earlier in
the season soon proved the downfall of
Wofford, too, with Bill Murray leading the
way.

Last Saturday Wofford bit off more than
they could chew and went down in defeat
before the greatest Auburn eleven in many
a day. The Plainsmen were complete mas-
ters of the tussle at all times and at no time
did Wofford even threaten the goal.

Coach Tommy Scaffe, former Navy play-
er, and Jack Frost, who used to return punts
for The Citadel, have the largest squad to
ever turn out at Wofford, including ten
lettermen and:a host of brilliant Sophs from
last year’s excellent Freshman team. Among
those returning were Loren King, all-state
tackle; Willis and Fox, stellar backfield
men, and the veteran ends, Carroll and
Meyers. The Sophomores have made three
or four regular posts on the team, The
Meyers; left tackle, Gleaton; left guard,
probable starting line-up will be: Left end,
Rushton; center, C. Jackson; right guard,

R. Berry; right tackle, King; right end,
Carroll; quarter, L. Jackson; left half, Fox;
right half, Scott; full, Berry.

“Y” DEPUTATION

(Continued from page 1)
apologized for his singing, saying that he
had a bad case of tonsilitis.

At supper that night Charlie Sisson and
Stuart Meacham went over to Grandfather
Orphanage, where about 65 children are
cared for, and told stories and talked to the
little folks. Shortly after this a young peo-
ple’s meeting was held.

That night Carl Pritchett spoké, He also
held a service Sunday morning at Crossnore.

On Monday’ morning Charlie Sisson
talked at chapel, concluding the series of
services ‘held. Immediately after chapel the
deputation started back for Davidson.

It is interesting to note that on the way
back they stopped at the Appalachian State
Teachers’ College and made plans for the
deputation to be sent there in the near fu-
ture.

Professor Rostovsef, of Yale University,
has discovered that beer originated in the
Rhineland. town of Treves.

A religious analysis of the 7,000 students
who attended Cleveland College last year
gives the lie to the oft-repeated statement
that college students are Godless, according
to Dr. A. Caswell Ellis, director of the col-
lege.

Three American universities—Columbia,
California and Chieago—have been honored
by the allied armies veterans of the World
War for “distinguished accomplishments in
the cause of peace.”

MMM MUTT TTL Le MTU

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well equipped
U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

UUUULATAUL TUL NREELAAAAL AAA

@eiiintntartnamt

Seamer ant ie ARP
DN oO
“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

aa

FURNISHINGS

Friendly Five Shoes

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206

CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN

ba G2

CLOTHING

John Ward

