THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930 5
Extension Courses West Elected Captain Davidson Orchestra -
Now to Be Offered Of Freshman Team Organized for Year DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO
see The evening before the game begween Oak
Drs. C. K. Brown and P. H. Gwyn) Ridge and Davidson’s Freshmen, Julian
to Start Classes at Statesville for | West, of Fayetteville, N. C., was elected Organization Consists of Nine Men Davidson 1920 The student body agreed to subscribe

School Teachers | captain of the. Freshman team, and Reid
| Brown, of Goldsboro, N. C., was elected
| alternate captain. Both of these boys attend-
|ed Barium Springs last year, where they
| were outstanding in football.and other ath-
For the first time in the history of Da-| letics. West is a quarteback and Brown holds

vidson College, the institution is offering | down ‘the fullback’s position.

extension courses off the campus to public! Because of the type of men that Barium
school teachers. In the past several years, | Springs has given Davidson in the past, and
they have offered a class at Davidson, and | because of these men’s splendid records there,
in addition to the same procedure during the | they are counted upon to be the mainstays
coming year, two of the Davidson profes-, of the Freshman team this year.

sors are conducting. extension courses at |
Statesville.

First Such Classes in History of
College

| was expected that he would return for the
Dr. C. K. Brown and Dr. H. Price Gwyn| Davidson game at one of the guard posts.
start a class in the Mulberry High School| /@ylor will take care of the other guard
‘at Statesville next Saturday at 10:30 a. m, | POSt more than likely. His 200 pounds are
Dr. Brown will give a course in labor prob- | compacted into a minimum of eee! ade lhe
lems, and Dr. Gwyn’s field will be educa- | C°V¢'S the ground and ON ere it fast.
tional sociology. Duke has three experienced centers and
| they, also, have put on weight for this sea-
The Davidson class will be held each! son. Emory Adkins, 184, seems to have the
Wednesday afternoon at 3:30, and will be edge over Charley Rupp, 182, and Bert Fried-
taught by Prof. Ernest J. Cullum, who of-| man, 180, in the struggle for the center po-
fers a course in “Methods of Teaching Ap- | sition.
preciation of Art,” and Prof. W. L. Porter |

The Sunnyland Serenaders, an orchestra
at Davidson College, has completed its or-
ganization for the coming year by the selec-
tion of three new men. Those chosen were
Middleton Hines, saxophone, of Warsaw;
John Best, of Shelby, trumpet, and Oscar
Norman, of Key West, Fla., pianist.

The club consists of nine men. The six
members who are still students at Davidson
and will play with the orchestra this year
are Jack Ramseur, of Lincolnton, saxophone
and director;- Reeves Pope, of Talladega,
Ala., saxophone; Woodrow Caligan, of
Wadesboro, banjo; William Haye@ of Fre-
mont, sousaphone; Brice Robinson, of Tal-
ladega, Ala., drums, and Robert Orr. of
Asheville, ‘trombone.

The Sunnyland Serenaders are growing in
popularity each year, and fill many engage-
ments in this territory. These students also
accompany the Davidson Glee Club on all
of its trips, lending a light feature to the
program of songs.

The Davidson Wildcats were overcome by
the Washington and Lee Generals. The Da-
vidson goal was threatened several times but
the Red and Black succeeded in putting up
an effective wall to block the advances. The
only scores were two field goals by the Gen-
erals, Silverstein doing the booting. Mattox,
later a Wildkitten coach, then a W. & L.
halfback, was the only man to make appre-
ciable gains through the ’Cat defense. The
game ended 6-0 in favor of Washington and
Lee.

EXCELLENT GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)
Schubert's old English ballads. Also, a negro
spiritual is being considered.

With the somewhat strenuous practicing
of three nights a week now being under-
gone, indications are that the Glee Club will
shortly be rounded out and in excellent
shape.

three dollars to the 1921 Quips and Cranks.
Insufficient funds was the reason given for
asking this subscription. C. W. Long, editor-
in-chief, brought the proposition before the
students and they gave their hearty approval.
Davidson Five Years Ago

The Wildcats tie Wake Forest, 7-7, at
Charlotte. A 21-0 victory had been predicted
for the Baptists and they had already been
given, unofficially, first rating in the state.
Although the line was outweighed 17 pounds
to the man and the backfield five pounds to
the man, the Presbyterians showed their
Scotch grit and fought it out, gaining a tied
score, “Little Lucian Wells,” as the papers
had it, was the outstanding constellation in
a team of stars. The Deacons scored in the
first five minutes and for several plays there-
after had it as they wanted. The ’Cats then
tightened up but could not score before the
third quarter, when Wells took the ball
across and Red Laird kicked the extra point.

students have enrolled in
Columbia University’s 1930-31 correspond-
ence school.

Ten thousand

will teach either “social geography” or “edu- |

cational biology,” which will be determined |
by the demands and needs of the public
schools enrolling here.

Prof. F. K. Fleagle, under whose direc-
tion these classes are conducted, announced
that the courses at Davidson and Statesville
are open to public school teachers, and that
six hours of college credit will be given any
person taking them. He also stated that the
executive committee of the college had agreed
to try extension courses off the campus one
year.

“The Statesville class is in the nature of
an experiment,” he said, “and was only au-
thorized after repeated insistence of teachers
in the adjoining county.”

... the idol of them all.
Ball two!.

be deserved.

COACH YOUNGER’S BROTHER

(Continued from page 1)
Younger was notified, he went to Lynchburg
as soon as possible, and stayed there until
Friday, when he returned to Davidson to
take up his coaching duties again.

A wreath was sent by the Davidson stu-
dent body as a symbol of their deep sym-
pathy for Coach “Monk” Younger and his
family. Rawley Younger is survived by his
mother and six brothers besides Coach W.
L. Younger.

WILDCATS FACE BLUE

(Continued from page 1)

will have only five men leaving them this
year, however, leaving a big number of reg-
ulars that will return next year. DeHart is
depending solely on how his Sophomores
fill in the vacant places and claims that if
they turn out well, he will have a hard team
to beat. There are still sixteen men left on
the Blue Devils’ team that know how a
Younger-coached team performs, so they will
know very well what to expect. Rosky and
Hayes, ends; Rupp, a center; Captain Davis,
guard; and Murray, fullback, are the only
Seniors in Duke’s line-up. The remaining
men that played against Davidson are: Hy-
att, end; Carpenter, tackle; Bryan, tackle;
Hughes, tackle; ‘Taylor and Rankin, guards;
Adkins, Freidman, centers; Brewer, full-
back; Russ, half, and Robeson, half.

Going through the personnel of the Duke
regulars we find Kid Brewer, the human bat-
tering ram of the Blue Devil squad, start-
ing at fullback. Brewer is a smart player
besides being tough, and carries 185 pounds
around with him. Bill Murray, 175, is start-
ing at one of the half positions and seems
likely to get the call against Davidson. Mur-
ray is a strong, well built back with a great
deal of speed and goes good on quick off-
tackle plays.

Abbott, 146, a slippery streak from Penn-
sylvania, who played but little Frosh ball
last year, will probably run from the quar-
terback post. Mullen, who put up a neat per-
formance against Virginia, seems likely to
start opposite Murray. Mark Rosky has
been calling them from the end position.
Rosky is back this year heavier than ever,
weighing 180, and runs at right end.

Bob Hayes, Charlotte boy and acting cap-
tain while Red Davis is laid up, is holding.
‘down left end with his 180 pounds of fight
and brawn.

Don Carpenter, 200, will either start at
tackle or will see a great deal of service he-
fore the game is over. Other tackles are
Bryan, 205; Alley, 204; Deichman, 191;
Gold, 176; Horton, 215, and Daugherty, 215.
Captain Red Davis reported for practice
back in September so far underweight that -
he has been kept out of the game, but it

Trirty thousand
welcoming shouts as he steps to. bat
Ball one!
..and cr-r-ack! he’s done
it again. Popularity to be lasting must

LIGGETT & MyYERs ToBACco Cu.

Rs

a
Pd]

. ONE

will always
stand out /

HOME RUNS are made at the
plate — not on the bench!

Likewise what counts ina ciga-
rette is what a smoker gets from

it — not what is said about it.

Chesterfield has a policy—give

smokers what they want: .

MILDNESS — the wholly nat-
ural mildness of tobaccos that are

without harshness or bitterness.

BETTER TASTE—such as only
a cigarette of wholesome purity
and better tobaccos can have.

