THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 20, 1930

Side Line Shots

At the Final Big Five Clashes

The Cagers were far from their best
form a gainst the Wake Forest Deacons
but they did manage to come out on the
long end of a one-sided score to keep
their record down to one loss to Big Five
teams,

The loss to the Blue Devils had about
the same effect on the team as it did on
the Red and Black supporters—the dis-
appointment was very great, although
this doesn’t mean there were any com-
plaints about the playing of the Wild-
cats,

However, there was a noticeable let-
down in the Wake Forest game which
probably resulted for the most part from
Duke contest and which was not over-
come by the Cats until the game with
Elon last Saturday. on

From the start of the game with the
Christians it was seen that the quintet
was in its old form and had the same old
fight that has brought it this far through
a very successful season.

And so instead of fearing a series of
losses against State, Duke and Carolina on
the State trip this week and the first of
next, it seems that everything should be
as optimistic as they were the first of
the year.

With the Cagers in their old form again
all that is neded to give us three straight
wins over these Big Five opponents is
for the team to know that the student
body is still 100 per cent behind them and
expecting them to win.

State won and lost to Carolina by two
points each time, Duke beat Carolina by
only one point on One occasion, we beat
Carolina by two points and lost to Duke
by three points. Draw your own conclu-
sions,

Coach Tilson’s matmen are having their
share of tough luck too it seems. Some
mighty close matches have been lost in
recent meets, and only after wonderful
fights have been put up by the Wildcats.

It was up to Poe Conway and Alex
Warren to come through the season with
no losses in the State in their. classes thus
giving them claim to championship hon-
ors. They’ve been the mainstays of the
Cats in all their meets this year.

Prospects for the Kittens in the State
look brighter than they did for a while.
After starting off the season in great
style they slumped to lose four straight,

Erskine Seceders Beat
Wildcats in Fast Game

Long Shots of South Carolinians
Feature—Erskine Forwards Great

In one of the most thrilling games seen
upon the home court this season. The Erskine
College five nosed out the Davidson Wild-
cats last Tuesday night by the score of 32-27.

Erskine scored in the first minute of play
From this time on, they displayed one of
the most brilliant attacks which the Wild-
cats have encountered this season. With
almost uncanny accuracy, they scored shot
after shot from the center of the court.
These brilliant shots, accompanied by stellar
guarding, enabled them to finish the half in
the lead, 16-15.

The second half opened with both: teams
showing more caution than in the first half.
However, in the first five minutes of play,
Goodson scored for Davidson, and from then
on the outcome of the game was never cer-
tain. The Wildcats showed brilliance in pass-
ing, but were unable to counter with suffi-
cient shots, and the game ended with Erskine
five points in the lead.

Score:

Pritchett, f (1) --------- McMackin, f (10)

Johnson, f (10)--------- Hambright, f (12)
RUSK IC ClO)ice kes feecseee as Reid, c (7)
Goodson, g (3) --------- Beamguard, g (2)
Proctor; @ (0) cseecescceseceu Petty, g (1)

J. W. McCONNELL WILL

(Continued from page 1)
sities and colleges in the United States and
Canada. This gives him an opportunity to
find out the exact entrance requirements for
medical work, more ably fitting him for his
duties as an adviser.

Dr. Lyman Wilbur, secretary of the inter-
ior, is president of this congress on medical
education.
—_

breaking this streak by a one-sided win
over Wingate.

Unless they exeperience another such
off-period they will have to be reckoned
with before the State Fresh champions
are picked. Their record is clean so far
with a win over the Baby Deacons to
their credit.

After the Varsity and Fresh squads
have completed their journey against Big
Five quints the cage season will be about
gone again. The Cats will meet the Wof-
ford Terriers here on the 27th and the
Kittens_ battle Wingate to finish their
card.

In other words it’s just about time for
the Diamond season to start and, while no
very accurate statement can be made
yet as to the prospects for this year, judg-
ing from the regulars back there’s going
to be some good material for Coach
Monk to take charge of as he whips a
varsity into shape.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE Saige’

ACQUAINTED WITH MEN AND THEIR
WAYS.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond,

Virginia.

+

Davidson Wrestlers
Meet Army Matmen

Virginia Grapplers Met on Return
{ Trip

Tonight a Davidson athletic team will
leave for West Point to do battle with an
Army team for the second time this year.
Last fall the Wildcat football eleven gave
a_ brilliant exhibition to hold the Army
eleven to a very close score. Now the David-
son wrestling team will attack the “Point”
with an array of talented matmen. The
match will be staged Saturday afternoon.

On the return trip the Wildcat squad will
stop off at Charlottesville to meet the Uni-
versity: of Virginia grapplers. Those men
making the trip to participate in both en-
counters will probably be Cowan, Gorham,
Brown, Brock, Conway, Christenbury, War-
ren, and Raker. These will represent the
various classes respectively.

This will not be the first time that the
teams of Davidson and Army have wrestled.
Several years ago Army defeated the Wild-
cats by a small margin. This season they
have an unusually strong team. Many of the
most respresentative Eastern teams have met
defeat at their hands. Only last week the
defeated the University of Pennsylvania 21

Carolina Men Outpoint
Wildcats To Win Meet

Tar Heels Defeat Varsity 14-21 in
Wrestling Match

Last Wednesday the University of North
Carolina wrestling team won a very close
decision over the Davidson matmen at David-
son. The final score was 14 to 12. Not until
the end of the last match was the victory
taken by the Tar Heels, for a fall for David-
son in this match would have tied the score.
In each of the matches won by time advan-
tages, the Wildcats narrowly missed getting
falls.

Summary: 115 pound class—Cowan, Dav-
idson won over Bell, Carolina, time advan-
tage three minutes, three seconds.

125. pound = class — Stallings, Carolina,
threw Gorham, Davidson, in three minutes,
25 seconds.

135 pound class—Albright, Carolina, won
over Brown, Davidson. Time advantage, one
minute, 54 seconds.

145 pound class—Tsumas, Carolina, won
over Brock, Davidapn Time advantage, fyi

<<

to 11, The University of \Virginis-et 6 has a
very strong representation, having defeated
several S. I. C. members.

Kittens Depart On
Trip Through State

Powerful Frosh Quints to be
Played

On Friday morning the Davidson Fresh-
man basketball squad will leave with the
varsity on a trip through the state. On this
tour the Wildkittens will encounter the three
strongest Freshmen quints in the state,
State, Duke and Carolina. This series of
contests will decide the winner of the state
championship, Davidson and Duke both, as
yet being undefeated. The Freshmen have a
good start on the road to the title, having
defeated Wake Forest Freshmen 32-14.

minutes, 40 seconds.

155 pound class—Conway, Davidson, won
over Moore, Carolina. Time advantage, five
minutes, four seconds.

165 pound class—Cowper, Carolina, won
over Christenbury, Davidson, in extra period.
Time advantage five minutes, 54 seconds.

175 pound class—Warren, Davidson, won
over Ferguson, Carolina, Time advantage,
one minte, twelve seconds. \

Unlimited — Raker, . Davidson, won over.
Houghton, Carolina. Time advantage, two
minutes, 32 seconds.

TO FLAVOR A MOMENT
OR MARK A THOUGHT—

HAVE A

CAMEL

Let Camels accent your little intervals between

this and that g Thoughts requiring pleasant

punctuation g moods asking for emphasis

g things accomplished which merit a bit of

jubilee g couple these with Camels g and

flavor them with pleasure g Each time your

day’s activity takes a nist GD or a turn g

have a Camel! 3

Camel brings you an extra measure of pleasure . . . simply

because it is a better cigarette.

The choicest tobaccos

grown are blended with expert care . . . into a mellow-mild
smoke . . . cool and refreshing . . . which never tires your
taste nor leaves an unpleasant after-taste.

N.C,

© 1929, BJ. Reynelds Tebacee
