THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

Freshmen Outshoot
Girls Rifle Sextet

Arlington, High Scorer With 270
Out of Possible 300 Points

The Freshman Rifle Team won their first
match of the season by defeating a team
composed of girls from the town of David-
son by count of 1459 to 1195. Only. the
Prone, sitting and kneeling positions were
fired.

Ralph Arlington was high scorer with
270 out of a possible 300. Paul Brown had
264 white Nona Elkins of the girl’s team
had 263. The scores were out of a possible

300: ,
Girls
Malling I vonsscoc.cosecsccs ce 203
ALgiles BLOWN Wc coca cease) eee 127
Billieublkinsecerscoc as Succ yee ee 178
Ficistahd: Scott: oi ceo 226
Darah) eon cess. e bo. Ze lo ae 198
Nona Elkins ~_.._-_______ benccuiwiges 263
a Otel’ Scosoce ceceer ee 1195
Freshmen
Ralphy Arlington. scescocse.50 co 270
Paul@Brown cesses sacs sce ee 264
omer iDurgess case sce ac ae 218
Bi ROO: Seaweed 235
Bi Minne eee eee 256
W. M. E. Rachel-s.. p Bae ee psc coe ope apes 216
Mota ls seers en es es ope ee 1459

Freshmen are eligible for the Varsity rifle
team so there will be no separate team for
the Freshmen. The Varsity will open its
schedule February 1, when the first of their
correspondence matches is fired. Seventy-one
correspondence matches have been scheduled
with several shoulder-to-shoulder matches
also.

Firing for the Rifle Trophy has begun,
and the results of this will be published as
soon as the scores are all turned in. This
trophy was won last year by C. P. Greyer,
captain of this year’s team. Among those
firing this year are the following members
of last year’s squad; Brohard, Calder, Curdts,

Harris, Graham, Kraemer, Russell and
Brock, J.
SERIES OF DISCUSSIONS

(Continued from page 1)
fields have béen exploited, and whether they
are over filled or in need of efficient em-
ployees.

“These articles will also benefit men who
have already discovered their calling, by giv-
ing them better knowledge concerning their
chosen field.”

“Therefore I urge every man in the stu-
dent body to read and analyze these helpful
guidance discussions, since they will profit
every reader,’ McGuire concluded.

WILDCATS GIVE BRILLIANT

(Continued from page ope)
Proctorgs (1) so 22 22 ee Marpet (4)
Guard

Substitutions : Davidson, Moore, Shepherd,
Marti’ (4) ; Carolina, Edwards (2), Hutch-
inson (2), Dameron (2);. Alexander (1).
Referee, Rawson (Ga.).’

First Man—I’d like to be cremated after
I die, but I’m sure my wife wouldn't like it.

Second Male—Why not ?

First Man—She’s always complaining
about me leaving my ashes around.

A minister, while passing a group of con-
victs at work on the county roads, became
very much depressed at the wickedness of
the world.

“My good men,” he exhorted, “we should
strive to mend our ways.”

“Well, wot in thunder do you think we're
doing,” asked No. 3289, “digging fishworms ?”

The difference between a motorman
And a conductor is quite strange;
The motorman changes the handle,
While the conductor handles the change.

Judge—What was the prisoner’s appear-
ance when he was arrested?

Cop—Well, he had a kind of a pinched
look.

Roses are red,
Violets are blue
What is a pawnshop
Without a Jew?

Business Office—I'll give you | just thee
days to pay your rent.

Freshman—All right, I’ll take the Fourth
of July, Christmas, and Easter.

The cow stood on the railroad track
Alooking at the sky;

Down the track came the limited—
Oh, see the-pretty butter fly! | >

“Cap’n Brock Title
Of Poem By Craven

The following poem, or rather ballad, was
written by Dr. W. W. Craven, of Charlotte.
Doctor Craven’s modesty refused to allow
him to send this in, but it was discovered by
Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, class of 1906, and
past president of the Davidson Alumni As-
sociation, who immediately sent it to the
editor of The Davidsonian to be published.

“CAP’N BROCK”

Toward the Wildcat lair the ball was forced
By Duke men tall and strong

While heated blood thru stout hearts coursed,
Something it seemed went wrong.

The pig skin oval the wild cat held

And growled and howled and hissed
Then back of goal young Brock now fell
And Duke a score had missed.

Light and lithe was this cat in red
As punt he was set to make,

But opposing team on air was fed
And he decided to play on fake.

Thru mass of brown Cap'n Brock now ran
Wit hthe ball clasped under his arm,
Then on he went thru Devil clan

But to him there came no harm.

To right and then to left he squirmed
A streak or red and black,

Across the field his way he wormed
But his pace he did not slack.

Two devils, each both fierce and fast
Were giving hot heeled chase,

And soon all others they had past
For they set a whirlwind pace.

Then one tall form in white and blue
Was reaching for that jersey red
And to old Duke was he proving true
For on speed he'd been well fed.

Soon fleeing Brock was in his grip
And his frame was seen to bend
’Twas then the cat had cut a flip
And his dash had come to end.

Before staring eyes the goal posts stood
But the captain had shot his bolt

Then other cats who were most as good
Would give Buck Duke a jolt.

They hit the line at first in vain
And then they made a second try
This time on blue was left red stain
As they passed the devils by.

THE EMBEZZLERS
By Valentine Kataev
(Reviewed by W. S. Lea)

Someone has said that of the twelve great-
est novels, twelve of them are Russian. No
doubt, this statement had reference to the
great Dostoievsky, to Tolstoi, to Gogol, and
to the other great Russian writers of the last
century. However, in modern times also, the
Russians are producing great works in this
field. One of the most outstanding of these
recent Russian books is “The Embezzlers”
by Valentine Kataev.

The American people, possibly, do not
have as understanding knowledge of the
Soviets as they did of the Russians before
their revolution. Dostoievsky has shown us
the life which existed’ in his time. To coin
a phrase from Gogol, we have seen the dead
souls which were the peasants of Russia. But
who of us knows the Russia of today. Let us
listen to Kataev as he shows us this picture
of the present day Russia.

His story moves with much _ swiftness
through scenes which at one time bring us
out in flows of laughter, and at another time
puts us in tears. We will be amused by the
book, but we will also be impressed by its
depth.

“The Embezzlers,” although we cannot

call it a political tract, is a real picture of,

BOOKS WE HAV

E READ

Davidson Freshmen Win
Over Charlotte Quintet

\

J
The Davidson Wildkittens defeated ~ the
Charlotte High Wildcats last Saturday night

by a the score of 20 to 9. The game was!

played in Charlotte at the Charlotte High
Gym. A small crowd of spectators witnessed
the contest, which was featured by the fast
floor work of both teams. The five man
defense of the Wildkittens was another fea-
ture of this contest. Inability to locate the
basket when in scoring territory proved
costly to both teams, with Charlotte being
the worst offender.

The outstanding player of both teams was
Bruce Peabody, whose excellent floor work
was largely responsible for Davidson’s abil-
ity to work the ball down the floor in the
second half, scoring rallies. He was strong
on defense. Starring with Peabody for the
Wildkittens was Rogers, who was high
scorer of the night with a total of nine
points.

Both teams got off to a slow start and the
score at the end of the first half was Char-
lotte High 6, Davidson: Freshmen 4. How-
ever, in the second half the Wildkittens
flashed a snappy brand of passing and proved
superior to Charlotte in this line of play,
thereby adding sixteen points while holding
their foes to five.

FINE SPEAKERS TO COME
(Continued from page 1)

Other speakers have been arranged for
but no definite dates have ben set as yet.
yet. Rev. Lloyd Courtney of Lewisburg, W.
Va., will speak at one of the services during
the next few weeks. Dr. James Fowle, a
Davidson alumnus and now pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga,
Tenn., has consented to lead the service in
the near future.

A deputation from Columbia Theological
Seminary in Decatur, Georgia, will come and
lead the meetings of the various organiza-
tions meeting on one Sunday. The commit-
tee is trying to get a deputation from Prince-
ton Theological Seminary also but this has
not been definitely secured yet.
—_———

The call of blood Cap’n Brock had heeded
As Davidson to tradition played true

Once more the tide had receded

A tide of big men in blue.

W. W. Craven, M.D.

the soviet system. The book is a literary
achievement. One sees the real Russian of
today, with both its tears and its laughter.
Many interesting people come before our
eyes—people who we do not know, because
they are Russian.

The book centers in the actions of two
Soviet minor officials, who unexpectedly
make off with the heavy bankroll of their
firm. We follow them through a long series
of events, in which they try to elude their
pursuers. On this big escapade, they go
through many amusing actions, drink much
vodka, and show us much of Russia. Doctor
Canby writes: “Here is news out of Russia
—news, not of economics, politics, and pro-
letarianism; but of human nature, at last.

‘It always seemed that men and women must

laugh, weep, and be tender or foolish in the
Soviet, but you would seldom guess it from
the books that have been written of that
proletarian society.”

The writer is a young newspaper man of
Moscow. He is the son of a schoolmaster,
but the grandson of a general. He served,
and was wounded in the World War. He
also endured eight months of prison life.
Another of his works, a drama called “The
Univermag,” will be produced in Moscow
this year.

We recommend the book very highly.
Those who would understand owe it to
themselves to read this book.

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

‘MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY
Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

Bell Company Seeks

Davidson Graduates

I. B. Huie, Davidson graduate of the class
of '26, and George W. Wray, who represent
the Southern Bell Telephone Company, in-
terviewed about twenty members of the sen-
ior class last Thursday. For the past four
years this company has sent men to inter-
view members of the senior class at David-
son in regard to their entering the Bell Tele-
phone Company. Already there are over
twelve Davidson graduates in this company.
They are connected with three parts of the
company: The New York Telephone Com-
pany, The Southern Bell Telephone Com-
pany, and the Bell Telephone laboratories in
New York.

At the meeting last Thursday, the men
received an outline of the possibilities which
lie in the telephone business. They were
given pamplets which described to a certain
extent the work.

On January 20, Mr. Charles Weisger, one
of the officials of the company, will be here.
He will interview those men who are still
interested in the company at the same time,
he will bring assistants with him, and the
men will fill out blanks if they wish to go
into the Southern Bell Telephone Company.
They will get answers to these applications
sometime in the near future.

Sixteen Men From

Alabama Form Club

Just preceding the holidays, the men here
at Davidson from Alabama organized an
Alabama club, consisting of 16 members of
which six were Freshmen. S. Y. Cassels
was elected president. Several feeds and
smokers have been planned for the near
future. The clubs is well represented in the
several college activities, members being in
the band, orchestra, and connected with lit-
erary or journalistic work. Athletics are
also indulged in by several. Alabamians.
Regular meetings are to be held with Sloan
Cassels presiding. The list of members, with
their address, follows:

Sloan: Cassels, President, Mobile; Ben
Harris, Mobile; Tom Bowles, Decatur ;
Bryce ‘Robinson, Reeves Pope, Clifton Pen-
nington, John Arthur Baby, Talladega; Van
Middleton, Mobile; Philip Shanks, Selma;
Dave Anderson, Birmingham; Murry Chris-
tian, Mobile; J. L. Brock, Florence; Ken-
neth Jackson, Stuart Meacham, Birming-
ham; Fred Ogden, Mobile; T. M. Sander-
son, Montgomery. ;

TEN YEARS BACK

During the month of January, exactly a
decade ago the campus of Davidson College
was literally buzzing with which was, per-
haps, the greatest campaign for money ever
put on at the institution. The “Million Dol-
lar Campaign” of North Carolina was in
full swing.

Presbyterians of North Carolina were
entering upon a project whereby they were
to subscribe one million dollars for the Pres-
byterian schools of the state. Four hundred
thousand dollars of this fund were to go
to Davidson, and the Rockefeller Foundation
had promised to add one hundred thousand
dollars to this sum, provided the entire mil-
lion was subscribed. Mr. C. E. Graham,. of
Greenville, S. C., had promised the school
an additional sixty thousand upon the same
condition. The part of the campaign alloted
to the students of Davidson amounted to ten
thousand dollars.

The campaign was in the form of a con-
test between the dormitories. The boys of
Georgia Dormitory led the race by soliciting
twenty-five hundred dollars. The first floor
of Watts Hall gave more than arty other
one floor in contributing one thousan < one
hundred and fifty dollars. A total of a
eleven thousand dollars was subscribed in
one night.

aN

“Hurricane” Defeats

’Cats in Quint Class

Furman Downs Davidson Team by
Score of 33 to 20

In a quintet clash on Thursday, January 9,
1930, the*Furman Hurricane defeated the
Davidson Wildcats by a score of 33-20. This
was the second of two games played in South
Carolina territory by the Wildcats and was
played at Greenville. Furman took the lead
in the first half and by good floor work,
led at the end of the period by a score of
25 to 8. Davidson was unable to penetrate
the defense of the Hurricane while the South-
erners rolled up the score.

The second half showed a change of mat-
ters. Davidson with that indomnitable
“fighting spirit” showed a strong comeback.
By good floor work and shooting Davidson
led the second half scoring by two points,
although this left Furman still on the long
end of the final score. The work of Southern
and Ohlsen featured for Furman, while
Captain Johnston showed up best for David-
son.

Furman fg ft tp
Wills cece ru eeecoseoceceoue 4 0 8
IRanichiticusdcaccccalucseuucuces 0 0 0
SOU atrccc cocoon ee een ceeanee 6 O 12
Watson C: cecuceacceuscessucoce Lelie 3
MGPSG 2G ccdsccaucacsocceusuuce 330520
Oleh). Peceacccsseod= coe cceee E02 22
StaWatt) ch) cscs seuesoascfeceees 0 0 O
Wiakeneld: @ sococececccosescce ye e/4

Matas: cescveecsscesecsueee 16 1 33

Davidson fg ft tp
Johnston, f paahoesconeesrodeeen 70 3 9
Pritchett: scsceecc se occcsccese le0nee
Shepherd, f ....--.--..---.------ 0 0 0
MBWilittt cuouuessesoces oe ouses 0 0 0
IRURK CCE saecueueecsue ceoacuoes 0 0 O
MItOnh Ci Soskseatoucusoassres 0 0 0
Mattihn.C: sisvccucccacusescucce 130) sz
(GO0d80N| (8: uasscconcncosean cscs Le Qua Z
IMGOLG) @) oscetotascosu-cuscus- 1 lk 238
IMAtHIS) 8 oeoe ee cece stocssceaen 0 0 0
PROGtOl) Ri sesccgucescceescusee Obse25-32

Motalsescdasees ss cuece sees 7 6 20

FASHIONS FOR SUPERMEN

ee ;

“Impelled both by their own zeal for vic-
tory and promotion, and by the importuni-
tices of the manufacturers to take leave of
precedent and obsolete, styles,” says West-
brook Pegler in telling about “Fashions For
Supermen” in the January issue of College
Humor, “the coaches have transformed the
varsity man from a shaggy fearsome figure
who breathed through holes in a rubber
mask, into a trim, fleet affair in pants so
tight that they seem to be painted on, a
shoulder harness like a prospector’s pack
saddle, and a form fitting, shock absorbing
casque of pliable leather, who looks no more
like the idols of my adolescence than Napol-
eon looked like old King Cole.

“On wet or extremely warm days, the
boys show up with their shins nude, and it
is a fact, although not generally known,
that the Harvard and Dartmouth teams of
1927 received issues of scanties, or shorts
like Boy Scouts pants, which disclosed an
area of undraped athlete between the shoe-
tops and a point well to the north of the
knee-cap. The trend is.that daring.”

STOP

that
COLD and COUGH
take

$29.50

Complete Line

Opposite Campus
Valbphous 206

Clothes for the College Man
Bostonian Friendly Five and John Ward
Shoes

STETSON “D” STORE \

$34.50

of Furnishings

