N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
“  fegiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr... © =

Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL iness M

EDITORIAL STAFF

itor

» B. BLACK Managing Editor
. W. McCUTCHAN. Managing Editor
. C. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R» ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON...._.....-.-.-.-__- Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON ‘eature Editor
Jj. L. BROWN/.__.- Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT. te Editor
F. D, MILLER A Editor
C. M. PRATT. Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
. A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
i L. ee Subscription Mgr.
. J. BAKER... Solicitor
P. He Seon Solicitor
VRP MECRREN NO Neston cesta ct bokcuossunbalsuacueue Ciee) Solici
O. MA solicitor
E.
L.

ao

RUFF.
SEVIER.

REPORTERS’ CLUB

2]

a A tN ae ada was ----President
‘ye MiDDiE ------Vice-President
Pea Benne TON sess eS -Secretary-Treasurer
, &. MATTHEWS Dy 8s) eam
. G, Cc. W. F. SPEN
J; R. SMITH W.-T. HANCOC coe
Ms o SORENSON JOHN M. BROWN
aA Drees G. P. PARDINGTON
WITT, RE MATTHEWS, W. H.
BIRD’ A’ DWELLE, E, C.

JANUARY 16, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

The History at a glance: Davidson licks Carolina.
Exams begin tomorrow. Freshman class
organized. Seniors exempt from chapel. Doctor
Charlie vows the Wildcats are right at last.

What a game that was in Charlotte Saturday
night. A great victory for Monk Younge
Just keep it up, Monk! ®

Doctor Dingle’s report of a “satisfacto df

ry year
received by Davidson Trustees °30 holds

Promise than any passed. Be
college!

r’s quint.

more
a worker for your

Glad to see the class of '33 off on its certified
career. Congratulations to the officers and best
wishes for the future of the class.

The less said about exams (except on Dixie pads)
the better. So here’s luck to you—student body!

Fine things promised by extensive intra-mural

competition. Support “Capt. N. G. Pritchett in his
great program. :

Remember to write home this semester for some-

thing other than checks. Keep the folks posted as
they would like you to do.

most of us the “dread” period rolls around to
catch us napping or ready to Sport our acquire-
ments of the past semester, as the case may be.
Examinations are seldom so difficult as antici-
pation would have us believe, and concentrated

three years of them without weakening, but it
does seem fair that seniors who can prove their

efficiency in a subject even to the concrete ex-

tent of numerical grade should be exempt.
Under classmen will appreciate this feeling as
they advance in their college career.

| CHALLENGE OF THE TIMES

PERSONAL DUTY TO ATHLETICS

Whether we like it or not it is an established
fact that the popularity and to a great extent
the ultimate and successful existence of a col-
lege today depends on its rating in the realm
of athletics. Not only does it count whether it
wins a majority of its contests or not but also
the type of athletes it puts out, how they play
the game if they win or lose. There is, how-
ever, a comparatively small amount of “dirty
work” committed in intercollegiate athletics at
present so the main yardstick for determining
a college’s standing with reference to athletics
is how many games they win.

A good high school athlete is not very apt
to. chose a college that loses consistently in
athletics. He ‘naturally wants to go where his
ability and achievements will be worth more to

name for himself, and so nine times out of ten
he won’t chose a losing school. The final result
in the case of such a school is, therefore, an
inevitable decrease in rating and student body.
There are various reasons for which a prep
school graduate may choose this or that col-
legee : his forefathers may have gone there ever
since it existed; it may offer special courses
that he wishes to take; expenses, location and
many other factors come in. One of the chief
“of these is in the nature of friends that the
graduate has at the college he picks and that’s
where we get a chance to do something really
worth while for our school——by getting boys
here who we know will make good athletes as
well as co-students that we can be proud of in
other ways.

No one can truthfully say that Davidson is a
losing college as far as athletics are concerned.
It is far from that but at the same time it is
fighting against great odds, just as other com-
paratively small schools are. The larger univer-
sities and colleges, as well as some of the
smaller ones, are offering many inducements
in a financial way to high school athletes ; prac-
tically all that can afford to do this in some
form or other. It is an obvious fact then that
the schools which do not offer such advantages
are getting the tough end of the proposition.
These small institutions have, therefore, got
to rely upon faithful alumni and students. to
get athletes for them.

It’s not much trouble for us to write or speak
to a friend who has made good in athletics in
high school and who will soon be going to col-
lege. If every man in the student body here
would assume this obligation it would be a
different tale about the Davidson Wildcats in
the next few years. They do all they can phy-
sically now but one or even two teams can’t
withstand the attacks of several elevens on the
gridiron or the fresh strength of reserves in
other sports. There must be reserve to go up
against reserve for victories to be consistent.

That old Wildcat spirit may be at stake if we
fail in our discharge of this duty, but if we
fulfill it nothing can stop those Wildcats! It
wouldn’t be at all a bad idea to assume this
responsibility as a New Year’s resolution and
then stick to it. P, R. Alderman.

intelligent public opinion for more powerful
nations.

Perhaps the’best path to follow in this search
for a vital understanding of the ages and their
significant actions is that offered by the times

years from now, historians will look back to
these days as probably the most outstanding in
in the whole record of man’s existence. The
things which we read in every newspaper and
see in the trend of the time are working to-
gether to carry man farther along on his eter-
nal journey. Never in so few years has so much
happened as in the brief span of the present
generation. And furthermore, additional prob-
lems are rising every hour, sweeping the world
in their scope, which will revolutionize the
thinking and acting of all people. By striving
for a complete knowledge and honest interpre-
tation of the present times, we may fulfill the
trust of good citizens and equip ourselves for a
finer service. The gate to knowledge stands
open, for no race ever enjoyed the privileges of
self-advancement which are within our grasp.
Cast aside the mantle of contentment and of
tradition, and be alive to the challenge of the
New World, a universe which is going to need
every sound thinker as a willing servant, as a
leader in the moral, economic, and_ political
progress of the masses.

World peace,. famine stricken lands, flood

forcement, struggling candidates for election,
moral regeneration, religious sincerity—all are
problems before the world at large. They- tran:
scend localisms because they are settirig prece-
dents, because they are the very life of the
people as they battle the forces which would
wreck human achievement. How can we meet
the conflict and hope to survive unless we are
educated in the real sense of the word concern-
ing the events and the motives constituting the
world of today? Study the present. Compre-

“hend the present. The-reward will be great.

him, where he will have a chance to make a.

in which we live. Let us remember that fifty’

swept plains, crying need of prohibition en- |

JeVy.

Cartoon fiends will miss “When A Feller Needs
A Friend.” Claire Briggs, famous comic sheet ar-
tist, has passed beyond the river. As a man he was
loved and respected; in his profession he was ad-
mired; in the publc eye he was laughed with, not
at. His work certainly caused no harm, and it
gave pleasure and eased the heart-ache of thou-
sands of readers. A man’s vocation need not be
directly philanthropic in order to give something
valuable to those who need it.

Announcement comes that two million peo-
ple have'died of famine, in China. That repub-
lic, teeming with restless milions, will never
miss the relatively few unfortunates. Likewise
in our own country, although there has been
no actual loss of life, the Mississippi River
reaches flood stage. Farmers evacuate the rich
lowlands with their families and _ livestock.
Whatever the life ofan ignorant Chinese may
amount to, and however the treking of. the
farmers may affect us, nature proves rather
inconvenient to the inflicted ones. Yet more
readers are interested in the fact that Arthur
(The Great) Shires was freed from all charges
by the Illinois and Michigan Boxing Commis-
sions, The public is funny that way!

\

Prof. Douglas Clyde MacIntosh, a professor of
Yale Divinity School, has been refused the right of
naturalization papers. His associates, as well as
the dean of the department, are strong in their
contentions that Professor MacIntosh has been
shamefully wronged.

The difficulty arose when he declined to sign the
clause stating that he declared himself subject to
draft into the armies and navies of the United

States in the event that the occasion arose. Pro- '

fessor MacIntosh maintains that he has the right
to judge whether a war is fought justiy, and that
he will not bear arms in a cause that does not coin-
cide with his religious beliefs. He is a Scotch Pres-
byterian. It is not doubted that he would make an
admirable and peace-loving citizen. But what is his
right to claim citizenship, at the same time desir-
ing a privilege which native born citizens do not
have? There are millions of United States citizens
who have not had the opportunity nor the right
to sigm such papers. They ar2 happy: in their

. estate!

Many students doubtless saw and enjoyed
“Dynamite,” recently portrayed at the local
theatre. Those who witnessed it, as well as
those men who have at any time been in a
coal mine, will appreciate the possibility, horror,
and continual presence of danger. A short
time ago, a mine shaft through solid coal was
‘ignited from burning gasoline. Two men were
trapped within the inferno. Within twenty-
four hours after the fire started, Inspector
Powell, Federal Bureau man in charge, ordered
that the entrance to the mine be sealed tight.
He states that it was impossible for the victims
to be living at that time. The fire, lacking
oxygen, will extinguish itself in the course of
two or three weeks; the mine owners will have
a considerable amount of coal. This column
does n no way attempt to pass as an authority
of mine engineering or safety, but there is
a motto of a leading weekly magazine which
runs, “Where there’s life there’s hope.”

Senator Furnifold M. Simmons’ declaration that
he will be a candidate for re-election in the Demo-
cratic primary elections in this state gives oppor-
tunity for much political debate. Mr. Simmons is
to be congratulated in not breaking away as an
“independent.” Evidently, the dean of North Caro-
lina senators intends to rejoin the party whose
presidential nominee he repudiated in 1928. If he
wins the democratic nomination, it will be inter-
esting to see if the majority of the party adherents
think that the “man or the’ party is most im-
portant.”

Most students in the Junior and Senior
classes will recall an article which was pub-
lished in the Charlotte Observer during the
year 1927-28. It dealt with a leading attor-
ney’s opinions of the so-called practice of
“bumming.” On page four of the Charlotte
Observer of Monday, January 13, appears an-
other news article giving another side of the
question. This column does not take arms for
or against the habit. It does persist in saying
however, that in two and a half years at Dav-
idson College, it has never seen any motorist
waylaid and forced to yield transportation.
Furthermore, this column has been unaware of
any attempt on the part of the students to
break down, ruin, or destroy any business
‘which pertains to that of transportation. Many
good upright citizens buy merchandise at chain
stores, simply because oftffmes a higher qual-
ity of goods is procured at a more reasonable
cost, 2

A

By the time that this paper comes out, the tocsin
will be sounding calling us to prepare ourselves for
exams. A goodly number of the less fortunate students
will doubtless be wishing for an anti-tocsin to prevent
the spread of this dread malady. With all due apol-
ogies to Douglas Fairbanks, a little story might be
written about exams entitled “The Mark of Zero.”
However, don’t let a little thing like examinations
worry you. It’s all in the game, as the hunter remarked
while he picked the buckshot out of the bear. Anyway,
as a little help on exams, I thought that I would
attempt to give you all a general idea of that classic
of Shakespeare’s “Macbeth.” Don’t let any unusual
noises disturb you, they will be caused by the Bard
of Avon turning over in his grave—or was he cre-
mated ?

MACK BETH
ACT I
Scene 1

(Enter three witches)

Witches: Double, double toil and trouble;

If we dilute it enough, we can sell it for double.

(Enter Prohibition Officers, Exeunt witches hur-.
riedly.)

(Enter Mack Beth and his brother, Next Beth.)

Mack: Here’s two-bits. Now, don’t you dare tell
Lady Mack Beth that I’ve got a date with those
witches.

Next: O. K., Mack. Money may talk, but I won't.

(Enter the three witches with an Ouija board.)

Witches: We see by today’s reading that you will
be King.

Mack: Who me?

Next: Don’t mind him, ladies. He’s so dumb that
they call him the Great Devoid.

(Enter same Prohibition Officers. Exeunt witches
in a cloud of dust.)

Mack: So I’m to. be King. I’d better dust off my
campaign cigars. (Strikes an attitude. Casualty—one
attitude. )

(Exeunt all.)
ACT II
Scene 1

(Scene is laid at Mack Beth’s home. There’s no
place like it. Enter Mack and Lady Mack.) ;

Lady Mack: So the old King will spend the night
here? Here’s your chance,

Mack: Oh, yeath? (Apologies to the talkies.)

Enter the old King, and Mack Duffer, his Yes-man.) _

Lady Mack: Howdy, King.

Mack Beth: Howdy, King.

King: Howdy, folks.

Mack Duffer: Yes.

Scene 2

(Scene is laid in the old King’s bedroom. The
King and Mack Beth are talking over old times.)

King: Where are you from?

Mack Beth: Chicago. Where are you from?

King: Chicago.

Mack: Well, what are you waiting for? (Bang!
Bang! The old King drops.)

Chorus: The King is dead! Long live King Mack
Beth!

ACT III
Scene 1

(Enter Lady Mack with a bottle of Energine and
a’ soiled dress.)

Lady Mack ;‘ Out dog-gone spot! Out I say! What,
will these hands ne’er be clean?

(Enter local pressing club hound,)

Hound: Any ironing or washing for—(no room
for ads.)

Scene 2

(Enter Mack Beth and Mack Duffer quarrelling.)

Mack Beth: You will, will you? Lay on Mack
Duffer! (Exeunt fighting.) :

(Re-enter Mack Duffer with Mack Beth’s head.)

Chorus: The King is dead! Long live the King!

(Mack Beth goes off to pose as the Headless Horse-
man, but can’t find a horse, so he dies of a broken
heart while murmuring, “My kingdom for a horse.”

CURTAIN, EGGS, ETC.

THE POETS’ CORNER

Persistence
My hopes retire my wishes as before
Struggle to find their resting place in
vain:
The ebbing sea thus beats against the shore;
The shore repels it; it returns again.
Walter Savage Landor.

Hidden Strength

The gods in bounty work up storms baout
us,

That give mankind occasion to exert

Their hidden strength, and throw. out into
practice

Virtues that shun day, and lie concealed

In the smooth séasons and the calms of life.

