THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1830

wo

DAVIDSON 118
OPPONENTS 57

THE SPORTS PARADE

BASKETBALL AND
WRESTLING
PRACTICES
START

Davidsonian Selects

All-Star Grid Teams

Five Davidson Stars Awarded
Places on All-State First and
Second Teams

BOTH LINES ARE POWERFUL

All Big Five Schools Place at Least
Two Men

Selection of an All-State eleven this year
resolves itself into a task which, we be-
lieve, is harder than usual. Due to the great
number of good men at some positions and
the comparative lack of really outstanding
players at others, it is very likely that not
more than one or two men in the State will
be unanimous choices. ;

We have seen a number of selections al-
ready, and there has been a great divergence
of opinion at almost all positions, Every-
thing from favoritism to prejudice has en-
tered into them, and no two have yet been
‘anywhere near alike.

Our pick, printed elsewhere on this page,
is what we believe represents a careful pick.
We have chosen men on their work this fall,
and not what they did last season, or what
they might do in seasons to come. Injuries
have handicapped. some men, and for, that
reason they have not been able to show up
at their best all the time. We look upon that
as their tough luck and someone else’s good
fortune. No matter how good a man is, if
he has to hobble around on crutches half
the season, he can’t make touchdowns.

One team is almost as good as the other
in the lines. The backs of the first string
carry a little more offensive punch, but both
sets of ball-carriers lack a big, pile-driving
back who makes his own holes. Such would
be desirable.

Starting at center, we are faced with the
hardest task of the whole pick. Four cen-
ters of the State are very nearly on a par,
and all are good. Lipscomb of Carolina gets
the ball over the lot because he is a little
better on the defense than the rest, has had
a little more seasoning and experience, and
because he has shown up wonderfully well
in a line that is far from spectacular. Gard-
ner of Davidson gets the second place over.
Parker of Wake Forest and Adkins of Duke.
Parker was good, but we believe that Gard-
ner has played just as good ball all the time.
game for game, and has not had the help
of being flanked by six stellar men, as has
Parker. Adkins will likely land on a num-
ber of selections.

Guards there are in abundance, but not
one stands head and shoulders above the
rest. Levine and Brock we give first, then
Stout and Werner. Brock was slow catching
on to the guard work, but by mid-season he
was playing fine ball and in the last two
games he was one of the outstanding men
on the field. Levine’s work throughout the
season was fine. Stout led the State team
and was one of the mainstays of its line.
Werner noses out such men as Fysal, Dupree
and others.

Much the same condition is noticeable at
tackle as there was at guard. Webb is a
little better than his teammate Williams,
though some will doubt it. Both are ideally
built for the position. Stroup played a smash-
ing game in the Wolfpack line. Covington
was consistently good all season and held
his position through the hardest kind of
competition.

The only difficulty in naming the ends is
to find which one will be placed where.
Duke had the finest pair in the State, but
Wake Forest’s flankmen are close runners-
up. Brown of Davidson has starred sensa-
tionally in every game and has never had to
be taken out because of injuries. Rosky is
a little better than either Hyatt or Greg-
son, whom we place third of the quintet,
and did a fine job of calling signals, as well
as doing everything else an end ought to
do. Brogden of Wake Forest had the mis-
fortune of playing at the same time four
other good men played, and perhaps had his
star dimmed a little by his more sensational
teammate.

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAMS
AS PICKED BY W. H. MATTHEWS

First Team Position Second Team
Rosky, (DGN6): oisc0s25005525552.2 | bY Deepen Gregson( Wake Forest
Webb (Wake Forest) ----------- Macscucises Williams (Wake Forest
Levine (Wake Forest) ----------- MGeecceccnceSeeee Stout (N. C. State)
Lipscomb (Carolina) __-------- Genter: .c20cc. See Gardner (Davidson)
Brock (Davidson) ---------------- GS ccowtcccscccusens Werner (Duke)
Stroup (N. C. State) ------------- Rie cescccccesk Covington (Davidson)
Brown (Davidson) --------------- Wicisccuscccasouuueuae Hyatt (Duke)
Brnach (Carolina) ~.------------- OBivacsescccss Benton (Wake Forest
McCall (Davidson) --.----------- ) ty Gee paeapepaperueerea ns Mills (Wake Forest)
Murray (Duke) -----.----------- RM Goscissss.cleeedens Brewer (Duke)
Magner (Carolina) __.----------- PB ee ccedssussesess Slusser (Carolina)

Cage Team Starts Work
With 3 Letter Men Back

Loss of Last Year’s Forwards to be
Greatly Felt by Team

After a very successful football season,
Coach Younger turned his attention to bas-
ketball Tuesday.°A long list of candidates
responded to the call for practice at that
time.

With three lettermen back on the court,
three good prospects from last year’s squad,
and some favorable material from the yearl-
ing team of last year, the approaching sea-
son looks bright for Davidson. A pair of
forwards to fill the berths left vacant: by
Pritchett and Johnson, two of the team’s
most dependable offensive stars in '29-'30,
have to be picked by Coach Monk. Captain
Bill Goodson (guard), Jim Proctor (guard),
and Dean Rusk (center), are the returning
lettermen and each will fill his former posi-
tion, with the possible exception of Rusk,
who may be shifted to forward.

The other former squad men returning
and who reported Tuesday are Martin,
Shepherd, and Montgomery. All three are
seeking the forward positions and show
promise of displaying keen competition for
the two posts. Mathis will be a contender
for a guard post, and Boots Wilson is a can-
didate for the center position.

If Rusk is placed at forward instead of
center, then in all probability Skinny Pierce
will see service in the latter position. Pierce,
center of last year’s Frosh quintet, stands six
feet, three inches, and if his style of playing
meets expectations, he will be a valuable
asset to Monk’s team during the next three
years. Besides Pierce, the Sophomore class
offers Peabody and Manson, who saw serv-
ice on the first string of the Freshman five
last season.

Wrestling Practice
Off to Good Start

Seven Letter Men Back to Form
Nucleus of This Year’s Team

Wrestling practice which for the past few
weeks has been carried on at night, has been
shifted to afternoon workouts and practice
has begun in real earnest.

With Captain Conway, Cowan, Boyle,
Raker, Gorham, Brock and Houston, all
lettermen, back, Coach Unger hopes to have
a winning team. In addition to these men
there are several men who were out for last
year’s team but did not make their letter;
also there are several Sophomores from last
year’s Freshman team who will give those
men on the varsity a tough time in keeping
their former positions on the team.

Coach “Doc” Unger expressed the opin-
ion that everything had started off with a
rosy hue and that prospects for a successful
season seemed very good.

There will be no matches before the holi-
days, but immediately after school opens in
January the season will get under way. The
schedule has not as yet been completed, but
will appear later.

More than 80 per cent of the shoplifting
done in New York City is done by women
who are between the ages of 17 and 23.

(

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well equipped
. U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

Sophs and Juniors
End Season in Tie

Although all the scheduled games of the
1930 inter-class basketball championship
have been played, no winning team has yet
emerged, The Juniors and the Sophomores
each turned in victories during the past
week, the Juniors triumphing over the Fresh-
men, 46-25, and the Sophomores downing
the Seniors, 33-9, to remain in a deadlock
for first place. A game between these two
leading teams, however, has been arranged
to decide the championship, and will be
played some time this week.

Each team has won five games and lost
one for a percentage of .833, but as a scor-
ing machine the Sophomores lead their rivals
175 points to 161. The other two teams, the
Seniors and Freshmen, also are deadlocked,
each team having one victory and five de-
feats. The Freshmen have outscored their
elders, however, 111 points to 106. The order
in which the teams finished, together with
the number of points they scored, follows:

Team Points W. Ly; Pct

Unions: eseseaues 161 5 1 833
Sophomores ----- 175 5 1 833
Seniors: se acese 106 1 5 .167
Freshmen ------- 111 1 5 167

Individual scoring honors go to Hartsell,
Sophomore center, who turned in a total of
73 points for the six games. Martin, captain
and center of the Juniors, by scoring 22

‘points in the Freshman game, ran his series

total to 54 points for second honors. Fol-
lowing Hartsell and Martin, the next eight
high scorers are: Smith, Seniors, 54 points;
McLain, Freshmen, 46; Montgomery, Junior,
43; Patrick, Junior, 34; Manson, Sopho-
more, 31; Evans, Freshmen, 29; Bouches,
Sophomore, 26, and Arnold, Junior 24. Each
team had at least one man among the first
ten, while the Juniors placed four men.
Sophomores 33—Seniors 9

Accurate shooting combined with an al-
most impenetrable defense, enabled the
Sophomores to swamp the Seniors in their
last game, 33 to 9. By holding their oppo-
nents to nine points, the Sophomores turned
in the best defensive that has been played
by any team during the present series.

The second-year men scored four field
goals in the first quarter, while holding the
Seniors scoreless during the stanza. The
Seniors managed to score five points in the
second period, but the Sophs also scored sev-
eral times, to hold an 18-5 lead as the half
ended. Little shooting was done in the third
quarter, only five points being scored, two
by the Seniors and three by the Sophs; but
in the final stanza the winners again went
on a scoring spree to add 12 points while
holding the Seniors to two foul goals.

Hartsell, as he has done in almost all the
other contests in which he has played, again
took high scoring honors with 14 points.
His. total alone was sufficient to win the
game: Manson, his running mate, was next
in scoring with nine points.

(Continued on page 6)

@) Complete Service
forSchool Publications
Ynnuals
(Derr zine Ss

‘ |
a ALOUS

eu Books

(
di
Que nity P an nuCo

Charlotte D €

LOOKING

With W. H. Matthews

"EM OVER

Football season is over; the managers
have cleaned and stored away all the
equipment until spring; lettermen have
been, or will soon be, announced and
managers and captain for next year’s
team have been decided upon. Except for
a smattering of big intersectional games,
the season is over.

It has been far from an unsuccessful
season for Davidson. The record of six
wins in ten starts is comparable with the
record hung up by any of Davidson's re-
cent teams. Certainly its defensive record
is one of the best any Davidson team has
ever turned in,

Only one team has as many as three
touchdowns upon the Wildcats this
year; only two have scored twice. Five
have been turned back scoreless. It is
the best defensive record of any team
in the Big Five. The opposition
against which this record was made
was some of the best this state, South
Carolina, or Virginia had to offer. It
is a glowing tribute to the coaching
genius of Younger and Tilson.

The Wake Forest game was a hard one
to lose, both because of the importance of
the contest in Davidson's rating in the
state and because,of the way in which
Davidson outgained the Deacons, only to
lose out in the scoring end of the melee.

The Wi'dcat attack made eight first
downs to five for the Baptists. The
running attack netted Davidson more
yardage than the attack of Wake
Forest gained for them. Davidson
passes likewise rolled up a larger total
than the successful heaves of the Dea-
and the in yards
which punts and kickoffs were return-
ed was even more noticeable. Unfor-
tunately, however, they don’t pay off
on any of these counts, and two per-
fectly executed passes spelled out
Davidson's loss. It was a hard game to
lose.

cons, difference

The Baptist line was undoubtedly the
best in the state. It possessed more than
a passing amount of weight—it is said to
be the third heaviest forward wall in the
entire South—and this weight did ‘not
seem to be gained at any loss of speed,

Davidson-Wake Forest
Statistics
D.C. W. F
First Downs -------- weco-a8 5
Yds. gained by rushing_-_-_143 137
Passes attempted -------- 28 5
Passes completed -------- 6
Passes intercepted -_--._- 1 1
Yds. gained on passes -_-- 85 78
Yds. gained-by passes and
rushing: 205232 228 215
Av. Igth. of kickoffs -_.__- 50 42
Av. Igth of punts -------- 34.1 36.2
Yds. punts and kickoffs
returned:2: 3.2 2osc2 5. 102 15
Total yardage gained by
rushing, passes, and
return of kicks -------- 330 230

for some of those two-ton trucks got
about with surprising swiftness. The stight
superiority of the line more than offset
Davidson’s advantage in the backfield,
which we believe the Wildcats had, and
plays which swept over and around and
through the Tar Heels were smeared on
Thanksgiving. *Incidentally we don’t quite
see how Carolina happened to nose Wake
Forest out in their opening game.

Thad Brock was undoubtedly the
best known man on the Davidson
squad this year, and he closed his
football days for Davidson with two
fineexhibitions of football against
Carolina and against Wake Forest.
We believe that if he could have
stayed at end, Davidson would have
had the two finest pair of wingmen in
the state, in spite of the nice quartet
exhibited by Duke and Wake Forest.
His play at guard improved as the

season grew older, and he will undoubted-
ly make quite a few all-states at that
position, which is certainly what he de-
serves. We doubt if there is a gamer
fighter, pound for pound, to be found in
this state. It was always a pleasure to
watch him work. ‘

During the,Jast two weeks we have
picked seven games. Five of the teams
picked to win did so, some not by the
margin doped, however, but neverthe-
less they all came through. Another
game ended in a tie, and the seventh
we missed. Our pick on the Notre
Dame-Army game last Saturday was
away off as to score, but on a dry
field we believe the Irish would have
gotten at least three touchdowns.
They certainly had the chances. Our
record for the season is 35 right, two
ties, and nine misses.

This is the last week-end of the regular
scheduled. games. And we doubt if any
one day of the entire year will see so
many big games carded in proportion to
the total number of contests. The most
important in this vicinity is the Duke-
Carolina clash—a classic if there ever was
one! It’s hard to dope, but we believe
that the Blue Devils will do or die for
DeHart and give him a victory. 14 to 7 is

(Continued from page 4)

Statistics for Season
D. C. Opno;

First downs -----..---- 95 71
Yds. gained by rushing 1828 1250
Passes attempted ---_-- 127 113
Passes completed -_----- 34 33
Passes intercepted ____- 9 15
Yds. gained on passes__ 444 430
Yds. gained on passes

and rushes -------- 2272 1680
Av. Igth. of kickoffs___- 44.8 48.7
Av. Igth. of puns --..-- 33.6 35.9
Yds. punts and kickoffs

returned ___-_-------- 608 714
Total yds. gained by

rushing, passes and

return of kicks ------ 2980 2284
Scoring points -------- 118 57

= |
oa

SHIRTS

SHOES

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206
FEATURING

for

For The Christmas Holidays
‘TUXEDOS
Ready-to-Wear

at
$25.00

TIES

CLOTHES

re]

