+ - 2 + ane
EE “ae
DECEMBER 16 Bai
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 11, 1930 No. 13

DEAN RUSK AND TOM
HILLNOMINATED FOR
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP

Announcements Made Monday by
Rhodes Scholarship Committee
as to Winners of Semi-Finals

ARE OUTSTANDING MEN

Awards to be Made December 10th
and 11th to Four Men

Davidson College scored another triumph
in the intellectual field last Monday, De-
cember 8, when simultaneous announcements
were made to the effect that two Davidson
men from as many states had been selected
by the Rhodes committees of their respective
states, as candidates for the four Rhodes
scholarships that are to be awarded by the
regional committee at a meeting in Atlanta
on December 10 and 11. These two men
are Dean Rusk, ’31, of Atlanta, Ga., and
Thomas E. Hill, ’29, of Richmond, Va.

Hill will be remembered here not only
for his high scholastic standing, but for his

+ versatility and leadership in religious, social,

and athletic circles as well. Among his dis-
tinctions while at Davidson were: Omicron
Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Phi Beta
Kappa, captain of wrestling team, Interna-
tional Relations Club, Court of Control, sec-
retary and vice-president of the Ministerial
Band, and secretary-treasurer of the Senior
Class. His enviable reputation as a wrestler
is one of his outstanding achievements, and
will not soon be forgotten.

Rusk, with one more semester of college
work ahead of him, has already achieved
distinction of the highest calibre, ranking
high in the social, religious, athletic, schol-
astic and military phases of student activ-
ity. Besides iHisea he has earned all of his
college expenses, ‘partly by working in the
Davidson Bank, partly by work in the Stu-
dent Store, of which he is one of the stu-
dent managers, and by other means. He
holds the rank of major in the unit of the
Reserve Officers Training Corps here, is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa, president
of the Y. M. C. A,, outstanding in varsity
basketball and tennis, and in many other
phases of endeavor.

Dr. G. R. Vowles, the Davidson member
of the North Carolina Rhodes committee,
has expressed his gratification at the out-
come of the men of Davidson thus far, and
says that Davidson has an unusually good
chance to be represented at Oxford next
year.

J. R. McGregor is
“Y” Vesper Speaker

Contrasts Business Firms With the
Firm of Our Lord, Jesus Christ

Last Sunday the “Y” vesper services
were conducted by the Rev. J. R. McGregor,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Lexington, N. C. Dr. McGregor spoke on
the subject: “The Firm of the Lord Jesus
Christ.” Billy Rule was the song leader for
the service, and led the gathering in two
songs, “The Son of God Goes Forth to
War,” and “The Church’s One Funodation.”
Dan LaFar read for the scripture, Ephesians
1:15-23, and following this Nab Armfield
and John Howard made short prayers. A
violin solo was next given by Don Leeper
to conclude the preliminaries to the service.

Dr. McGregor spoke on the advertise-
ments of various cities and towns. He told
of how the city of Atlanta spent $700,000
for advertising and the citizens claim that
this advertising pays. Four hundred and
sixty million dollars were expended for the
Firm of Jesus Christ last year, but never-
theless the population grew a great deal
more than the firm. In Davidson County
where I live, the population has grown three
times as much as the church has since 1916,

_he said.

“Your father’s firm may be twenty-five,
fifty, or seventy-five years old, but this
firm that we are all members of, the age of
it is not known. Then, too, your father’s
firm probably had several hands to lead the

(Continued on page 5)

Campaign Initiated
for Barium Springs

The Barium Springs campaign, under the
leadership of Carl Pritchett, Y. M. C. A.
secretary, has gotten off to a unique and
auspicious start. Two days before the solici-
tations started, Mr. Pritchett went down to
the postoffice, opened his box, and there
found a letter addressed to the Y. M. C.-A.
Inside it was,an anonymous gift of thirty
dollars in.cdsh. Thus the campaign was
started, and it has progressed in just as
encouraging a manner, according to Mr.
Pritchett.

‘The first solicitation was made on Friday
night at 9 o’clock. At this time the mem-
bers of the “Y” cabinet and a few others,
comprising a group of about twenty, went
around to the different dormitories and af-
forded the Davidson students the first op-
portunity to make their contributions. The
cabinet will continue to make these solicita-
tions until everyone has had an opportunity
to contribute to this cause.

At present about two-thirds of the stu-
dents have contributed, and the figures show
that if the other third do as well propor-
tionately, the goal of $1,000 will be reached
or perhaps surpassed. ,

Mr. Pritchett expressed the appreciation
the Y. M. C. A. feels for the way in which

the student body has responded to this cause |

and further stated that we have every reason
to be optimistic ‘about the outcome of the
campaign.

Dr. W.L. Lingle Attends
Many Church Meetings

Presides Over Meeting of Federal
Council of Churches

Dr. W. L. Lingle attended the annual
meeting of the executive committee of the
Federal Council of Churches, held in Wash-
ington last week. Dr. Lingle also attended
the American Congress of Home Missions
which met in Washington December 2 to 5.
The Federal Council met in the New York
Avenue Church. This church is noted for
the fact that seven presidents have been reg-
ular attendants, including Abraham Lincoln.
Dr. Lingle is chairman -of the executive
council and acted as presiding officer dur-
ing the meeting. He also acted as chairman
of a committee of three that laid before the
President of the United States some reso-
lutions in reference to the United States’
entry into the World Court. The President
received them very graciously and seemed
to appreciate the resolutions a lot. On Thurs-
day Dr. Lingle presided over the meeting
of the Home Mission Congress. It may be
mentioned that Dr. Lingle also went to
New York, where he had a very satisfac-
tory conference with the Carnegie Corpora-

(Continued on page 6)

Mr. Unger’s Death

News was received here at David-
son last Monday morning to the ef-
fect that Coach “Doc” Unger’s fa-
ther had died. Coach Unger was at
his father’s bedside at his death. No
particulars were available as to the
cause of Mr. Unger’s death.

On Wednesday night, December
3, Coach Unger received a telegram
which stated that his father was
very ill and was not expected to live.
He left immediately for his home in
West Point, Mississippi, and no
word was heard concerning the con-
dition of his father until the mes-
sage last Monday, telling of his
death.

Coach Unger came; to Davidson
this year to act as assistant Fresh-
man football and as head coach of
wrestling, and in his brief stay here
he has become very popular with
the students with whom he has come
in contact, and/it is with great sor-
row that we here of his recent he-
reavement.

Program Arranged for
“Y” Christmas Vespers

To Climax a Year of Most Inspira-
tional Vesper Services Davidson
Has Ever Known

GLEE CLUB WILL PLAY

Impressive Stage Decorations, Spe-
cial Music, and Student Officiation
Planned

Davidson's annual Christmas vesper serv-
ices will be held in Chambers Auditorium
on Sunday, December 14, bringing to a cli-
max a year of the most inspirational vesper
services Davidson has ever known. This serv-
ice, following up the series of lectures by
Dr. Harris E. Kirk, will be the last which
Davidson students will attend during the
year 1931.

For many years it has been one of David-
son’s most cherished and traditional customs
to hold a sacred vesper service before the
Christmas holidays, and those who have wit-
nessed this Christmas vesper. service testify
that it is one of thé most beautiful of all
held during the year. ,

As has always beentthe custom, the college
glee club and the violin ensemble, together
with the organ, will furnish ‘music for: the
occasion. The stage of\the auditorium. will
be decorated as the oceaision demands, and
though the speakers and\music will be hid-
den from the audience, all can be clearly
heard, There will be no special speaker, and
it is planned to have a scripture reading fol-
lowed by responsive readings. Also, the sev-
cral students participating will read selec-
tions from the Bible, including the well-
known story of the “Three Wise Men,” etc.

Programs will be printed for the occasion,
and it is expected that visitors from Char-
lotte and elsewhere will %e present, for this
service has come to be widely known as one
of the most impressive ones held anywhere.

Sophomore Banquet
to be December 17

Informal Affair Will Be Given as a
Buffet Supper

The Sophomore Class is planning to hold
its annual banquet Wednesday night, De-
cember 17, the night before the holidays be-
gin. We have been hearing much about it,
and, according to Charlie Norfleet, president
of the class, we shall hear still more about
the banquet after it has taken place. The
banquet hall in Chambers Building is to be
the scene of this festive occasion, and the
class is planning for this to be truly festive.

The banquet will be an informal affair,
|of course, and will be given in the form of
|? buffet supper. There will be a short pro-
gram consisting of songs by the class, and
by a quartet, and probably a solo or two.
A short comedy skit is also being planned.
|It has been announced that Stumpy Sugg
is to be the toastmaster, therefore an espe-
j cially good time is assured.

The whole class is, behind the banquet
as is shown by the fact that almost the en-
tire class has already bought tickets for it.

Charlie Norfleet wants it understood that
this affair will not take the place of the
Sophomore house party. That event will oc-
cur in the spring as usual. This banquet is
given with the plan of stimulating in the en-
|tire class a better feeling of friendship and
lof class spirit, and to send the entire class
| off for the holidays with a bright outlook
|for a merry Christmas and a good start for
a happy New Year.

Wildcats Complete
| 33 Forward Passes

Davidson Gains 444 Yards on
Aerials Completed During
; Season

The Davidson Wildcats were outpassed by
their opponents during the past football
season, statistics for the season recently com-

| piled show, and they completed one more

forward than did the Wildcats. Davidson’s
(Continued on page 6)

Juniors Entertain

at Xmas Week End

Many interesting features have been
planned for the entertainment during the
Christmas house party to be held this weck-
end, including a free show, vaudeville, a
Christmas tree reception and possibly an-
other interesting feature. Following the
precedent of last year’s class, the Junior
Class of this year will sponsor the house
party and all the details of the program,
which promises to be one of the most inter-
esting Christmas entertainments ever held
here. The Y. M. C. A. has been called on
to collaborate with the Juniors and help in
any way possible. All boys have been urged
to have girls up this week-end and from
present indications a large number will be
here.

A free show, beginning at 4 o'clock on
Saturday afternoon, will start off the long
series of programs which will last far into
the night. The next program in the nature
of a vaudeville will begin at 7:15. Some real
headliners feature the vaudeville program.
The Davidson College Orchestra will pre-
sent an act of their own originality to start
the program off. A few_of the other features
wlil be entertainers from the Burkhimer
School of Esthetic Dancing in Charlotte,
who will present two acts, one a tap dancing
act and the other an acrobatic dance. “Mutt”
Bruns, a member of the Converse Glee Club
last year and remembered for her muchly
enjoyed rendition of popular songs here in
the glee club program, will be present to
entertain once more. Vereen Bell and Horace
Ervin, the Juniors’ talented artists of humor,
will entertain also in this vaudeville pro-
gram. In addition to this galaxy of star per-
formers, four more numbers are arranged
which promise to provide as much fun is
those named.

(Continued on page 6)

Debating Team Tryouts
To be Held December 16

To Be Held in Shearer Hall
December 16th

Tryouts for the debate, “Resolved; That
the United States should adopt the policy of
free trade,” will be held in Shearer Hall
December 16, Tuesday evening, at 8:30.
The judges will consist of three of the fac-
ulty of Davidson College. Only upperclass-
men will be eligible for the debate. Eight
men are to be chosen together with’ four
alternates, making a total of twelve men.
Jas. A. Jones will have charge of these try-
outs. A definite schedule has not been ar-
ranged, but it is believed that the Davidson
debating team will have about twelve meets
with some of the other leading colleges of
the country. :

Christmas Seals

The Christmas season is here once
more, and with it the sale of
Tuberculosis Christmas Seals. To
make this sale of seals produce
funds at all adequate to what is
waiting to be accomplished will re-
quire a sympathetic understanding
on the part of the public. Seventy-
five per cent of the proceeds are
for community use and are used
largely in correction of conditions
of undernouishment.

“Despite the fact that tuberculosis
is fifth on the roster of diseases in
toll of human lives among all ages,
it is first among those in the first
decade of maturity.”

Persons may have active tuber-
culosis unknown to themseves or
anyone else, as a result of the child-
hood form which was never recog-
nized, but allowed to develop into
activity.”

The funds realized from the sale of
seals supply the “ounce of preven-
tion” in our war on tuberculosis.
DO YOUR BIT! BUY TUBERCU-

LOSIS CHRISTMAS SEALS!

FIRST OF SERIES OF
OTT’S LECTURES GIVEN
HERE BY DR.H.E. KIRK

“Man’s Place in Nature” is General

Theme of Whole Series of Talks
TO GIVE FIVE LECTURES

Names Three Common Obstacles to
Students’ Acceptance of
Christianity

On Monday morning, December 8, in
Chambers Auditorium, Dr. Harris E. Kirk
delivered an inspirational lecture on the
subject, “The of Man's
Abode.” This was the first of a group of
addresses proyided for by the Otts fund on
the general theme, “Man's Place in Nature.”
The speaker is a native of Tennessee, a grad-
uate of Southwestern University, and has
been pastor of the Franklin Street Church,’
Baltimore, for the past twenty-five years.

Insignificance

Dr. Kirk expressed his pleasure in being
at Davidson for his series of addresses, say-
ing that he had always wanted to visit the
school which sent such fine young men to
Baltimore. “Of all the colleges in the United
States,” said the speaker, “I know of none
which has exerted a more uplifting influence
in fields of post-graduate study than has
Davidson.”

In presenting his themes for the week,
Dr. Kirk said that there were three objec-
tions to religion in the hearts of people to-
day which he would like to approach and
discuss briefly. The first was that the con-
troversy that exists today makes it impos-
sible to place Christianity on a_ religious
plane above other religions and Christ above
other great religious teachers. The second
was that modern knowledge and Biblical
criticism made it impossible to attach as
much importance as our forefathers did to
the supposed truths of early Christianity.
The third was that the early ideal of Chris-
tian life, when expressed in lives today,
tends to make them somewhat effeminate and
out of tune with those of modern society.
“The subject. is too broad to be taken up
fully,” “said Dr. Kirk,
only break it into parts, leaving it in a
simpler form for you to ponder upon.”

At this point, the speaker entered upon
first subject, “The Insiggnificance of
Man's Abode.” “It takes courage to look into
the eyes of a star as it looks down upon us
in an air of aloofness and cold haughtiness,”
he said. “In the Psalms, David’ expressed
his reactions as he sat and looked up into
the better than anyone else has
ever done. Modern man, with all of his
knowledge, cannot answer~as well as that
shepherd did as he wrote, ‘When I consider

“Therefore, I can

his

heavens

thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the
moon and the stars, which thou hast or-
dained; what is man, that thou art mindful
of him, and the son of man that thou visitest
him? For thou hast made him a little lower
than the angels, and hast crowned him with
glory and honor,’”’

Dr. Kirk gave illustrations showing the
immensity of the universe in which the earth
is like a mere particle of dust in a sunbeam,
pointing out the fact that it takes millions
of years for a ray of light to reach the

(Continued on page 6)

McConnell. Attends
Meeting in Atlanta

Dean of Faculty is Delegate to
Association

Dr. J. M McConnell, dean of the faculty,
attended a meeting of the Southern Asso-
ciation of Schools and Colleges that was
held in Atlanta, Ga., this past week. There
were about four hundred delegates at the
meeting, representing southern colleges and
higher schools of learning. The delegates
were addressed by Dr. Laing of the Univer-
sity of Chicago, and Commissioner Cooper
of the United States. Bureau of Education.
The main topic of discussion before the as-
sociation was the suspension of the Missis-
sippi State University and higher schools
of learning in the state, due to prejudiced
political control of the schoels.
