2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1930

The Dabvidsonian

vo Saale Weekly “1 “For a Better wo.
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

—

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Fditors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WIL pe McCUTCHAN....-......----..--- Editor-in-Chief
PATI CANNON Hecsicccuntsdboccscccccussice Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF F
Ber Gea Wissel; J Ricstcacdsccdacdccapecusocs Managing Editor
W. S. LEA......... --Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN..---- -Managing Editor
W._H. .-.Sports Editor
V. M. BELL-.--.-.----.- .-Feature Editor
NoRMAN RAIES.. -Feature Editor
A. R. AEDRBIOAN, acees Review Editor
P. R. arta MAN .-Associate Editor
er a --Associate Editor
pas RAGIN Bowe ccstessccecessoussasesesesens Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
PiiMs CONWAY sccscssscdacccce Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER_-_-- .--Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS.......... -Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY....----.-------- Subscription Manager
Pee Rae BROWNcdatccccccucccscssas chaccussabccuetscseens Solicitor
R. W. FAL -Solicitor
A. M. MAN -Solicitor
A. L. MEBAN i --Solicitor
W. R. MORROW. Piaectosees cbsebuavoscdeenuccesccssoucs Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WILEY President
D. G. STE
A. H. WHI’
R. H. AL f
jJ.G. B Z
AUR. B ;
N. B. DICKS Je Ge N
E. O. GUERRANT Wiel: HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
& C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE
OCTOBER 30, 1930
we

‘King am I, whatsoever be their cry;
And one last act of knighthood shalt thou see
Yet ere I pass?”
—King Arthour, frmo Tennyson,

SUGGESTIONS

Alumni were not the only friends present at the
game last Saturday whom students were glad to
see.

Dr. Rimmer has come and gone, doubtless to
soon begin his six-month period of excavation.
One cannot refrain from wondering what he will
unearth next, either with or without scriptural
significance.

Small boys await to-morrow night with mis-
chievous eagerness. College men are supposed to
have passed certain prankish celebrations of Hal-
lowe’en; time will tell.

Thanks to the football team for a hard and
cleanly fought game last Saturday! It was a typical
example of Davidson spirit.

Discretion is an essential stepping-stone to suc-
cess. Few people have gotten far without some
of it.

Some students appear to be more engrossed with
their studies than they were this time last week.
Reports do have an effect.

THE POWER OF THE MINUTE

“If winter comes, can spring be far be-
hind?” The answer is self-evident, for na-
ture seldom changes its-course to suit the
whims of man. Occasionally man fits his de-
sires to the weather and climate which na-
ture gives him, but most of us find it hard
to be satisfied all the time. At any rate,
autumn is rapidly approaching winter, and
after winter comes spring.

Despite habits to the contrary, it is the
psychological time to get down to hard
work. W hether jit be morning or night there
is enough “zip” in the air to stimulate the
brain to extraordinary endeavors. Harry
Lauder was right when he sang, “But it’s
nicer to lie in the bed,” but that does not
solve the problems pysscutel by mathemat-
ics, languages and sciences

Most students have determined on ‘their
course of study; they did so in their Fresh-
man year. Instead of arguing and pondering
over the merits of a Bachelor of Arts de-
gree as opposed to a Bachelor of Science
degree each man should decide to win the
one which he has chosen.

Many will disagree as to the advantages
of cramming until the wee small hours,
avowing that it is better to get up early and
retire early. The important thing is to do
one or the other. Habit will once more make
the difference between failure and success.
An alarm. clock does ‘little good when its
hearer reaches out, turns it off, and turns
over; it cannot pull a man out from under
the_covers. Many men have waited until the
first of January to realize that first semester
examinations were upon them.

| uniform.

| grew tired of listening to them. All of them

THE WARBLING FOUR |
Davidson has always had a good Glee
Club ; it has become part of the tradition of |
the school. Although the entire club has not |
yet appeared in public, the varsity quartette,
on last Saturday night, gave an indication
of what lies in store for devotees of music.
Words of praise for the men have been |

Still, in the light of the present the mind |
must sometimes turn to combinations and |
novelty numbers of the past. Despite the |
fact that they were not classed as a quar-
tette, perhaps one of the most famous of the
club’s offerings functioned in 1928-29. Gor-
don .McSwain, Howard Reid Mobley, and
Proctor Thompson provided harmoney ga-
lore. If memory serves correctly they were
encored eight times upon their initial appear-
ance in that year. Their audietices never

have gone, but those who heard them will. |
never forget the minor chords they crooned |
so well.

Of a slightly different type perhaps, but
displaying infinite promise, is the 1930-31
group. Three of the four are upperclassmen,
the quartette consisting of one Senior, two
Juniors, and one Freshman. They should
not be taken as individuals but as a group |

| singing together.

It is essential that the four voices blend |
with one another; it is no place for individ-
ual ability alone. To our minds a male quar-
tette is one of the most pleasing arrange-
ments of voice combinations. We wish Ram-
seur, DuBose, Rule, and Koontz all possible
success in their future appearances.

TO THOSE WHOM THEY DELIGHT
TO HONOR |

On Monday the honorary fraternities will
issue bids to the upperclassmen whom they
have decided to honor. Many men have
failed to fully appreciate the values offered
by such organizations; a few of these men
have actually been members of the groups.
The time-worn expression must be used
again, “A man gets out of it exactly what
he puts into it.”

Contrary to a prevalent belief, confer-
ence of honor is not the only object enter-
tained by these fraternities. It is true that
they are called “honorary,” but the word is
supposed to define the desired result rather
than the purpose, The two factors have been
confused,

Too many students have had the idea that
they should accept such propositions merely
because it gives them another line to put
below their names in the annual. It is be-
cause of this mistaken conception that
some of the fraternities have not proved to
be the active organizations they are sup-
posed to be. Men who have joined with the
above-mentioned purpose in view have re-
tained it after they became members; it re-
mained in their subsconcious minds. Year
after year it continued until it grew to be
firmly rooted both in the brains of active
members and in the minds of those who did
not belong to the group. It basically
false point of view.

is a

However, there have‘always been men in
these fraternities who have realized the
error of this idea. Gradually they have suc-
ceeded and have forced the adoption of pro-
gressive programs. Some of the organiza-
tions never needed a rejuvenation; others

| did. In any case it is the purpose of this ad-

| organization to be mistaken, he should not

, still do justice to all that carry: his name on
| their rolls. They expect some time, but they

juration to dispel any such ideas from the
minds of those who may receive bids.

That man who is invited to join an hon-
orary fraternity should remember a few
fundamental principles. First, each group
centers its endeavor upon a particular field.
It may be concerned with classical, scien-
tific, musical, literary, military, or other
subjects. The neophyte should be interested
in the particular branch.

Second, the student who received a bid is
supposed to be proficient and devoted to this
branch of curricular or extra-curricular ac-
tivity. If he is not, and it is possible for the

even consider membership.

Finally, no one’s feelings will be wounded
by acceptance or refusal. If the bid is taken
up the members of the organization will be
glad; is it net they supposedly have enough
intelligence to understand that other ques-
tions can enter into the problem. It is pos-
sible and probable that one man can belong
to more than one honorary fraternity and

do not exact all of a member’s spare mo- _
ments.

On the other hand, he bid should not be
accepted if the acceptor desires only to be
initiated, to have his name placed on the
roll, and to be absent from subsequent meet- |
ings. They aim to -be and should be active
working organizations.

Among Davidson’s contribution of a half-dozen
or more baseball stars to the major leagues, one

ofthe most outstanding is Mr. F. W. Hengeveld,
the registrar, who, peculiarly enough, would not
accept his big time offer. After the World War,
in which he saw service, he starred for three
years in the minor leagues, playing with Little
Rock. After this period with the Arkansas team
the erstwhile Davidson diamond luminary, who,
while a student here, made an enviable record as
a pitcher, was sold to the Washington Senators.

Faced with the necessity of choosing a coaching
job at his alma mater, and that of accepting the
big league offer, Mr. Hengeveld chose the former,
serving in the capacity of baseball and basketball
coach until he was appointed to his present posi-
tion, sacrificing the opportunity which w6uld have
been eagerly grasped by thousands of baseball
aspirants, whose supreme ambition is to become a
major league player—a singular distinction within
itself. Although the future was promising, the
registrar clung to his convictions and gave up
professional baseball ‘altogether. There are very,
very few men who have ever refused this lucra-
tive offer,

Moreover, he is still owned by Little Rock, who
deem him too valuable to lose. Some years ago,
the former Wildcat twirler wrote to the Ozark
club and requested a release, but they refused,
unless he paid a consideration of $2,500, After that,
Mr. Hengeveld suspended all negotiations and
decided to be voluntarily retired, which automati-
cally eliminates him from ever playing in organized
professional baseball again.

Some of the minor league team mates of the
‘ registrar, whose efficiency in his present posi-
tion has source of innumerable
commendations, are now among the fore
most major league stars. Charley Grimm is an
infielder with the hard-hitting Cubs, Bing Mil-
ler a member of the World’s champion Ath-
letics, and Travis Jackson outstanding New
York Giant shortstop. Mr. Hengeveld has not
given up the game entirely though. Occasional-
ly he goes out to watch the varsity team prac-
tice in the spring and, when he he takes the no-
tion, retires one batter after another by the
strike out route.

been a

unique of

campus here.

Ed Bettis has introduced a system
correspondence the Ed, who is
an amateur radio operator, the only one in David-
son College except Dave Caldwell, communicates
“folks” Tennéssee over the radio, at a
designated time Wednesday oe Friday
afternoens, thus eliminating t “Wwrit-
ing”
Ed and Dave proeured their licenses as radio
operators only after passing a difficult examin-
&tion on radio theory and code. Subsequently,
these two men with some others who since
been graduated established here, in October,
1928, an amateur radio station W4ZD located
above the old Armory and operaed on 20, 40
and 80 meter wave bands. Desiring to broaden
the scope of the new undertaking, they or-
ganized the Radio club, which now exists as
an active organization, and which, although

on

with his in

every

home.

open to most everyone, selects its members by

requiring numerous qualifications.

Since the the radio enthu-
siasts have hdd direct contact wih Germany, Eng-
land, France, New Zealand, Australia, Alaska,
Porto Rico, and New Foundland have re-
seived messages from each by the code. Its mem-
bers run schedules every day with at least two
different stations in various parts of the country,
during which time many long distance messages
are relayed from Davidson.

Ed tells of a humorous incident which oc-
curred one day last year, and which embar-
rassed him greatly. After a long “talk” with a
boy presumably, he asked, as is customary in
radio telegraphy with new correspondents, the
name of the listener, whereupon he received the
reply “Mary.” After that, Ed watched the sub-
stance of his “conversaitons” with strangers,
before finding out the identity of the com-
municant.

creation of the club,

and

It is interesting to note that Bryan College, a
newly-established educational institution in Day-
ton, Tennessee, scene of he famous Scopes trialin
which Clarence Darrow enacted the part of the
defender, and William Jennings Bryan the the role
of the prosecutor, and named for the great Com-
moner, has fashioned its curriculum on the model
of the Davidson College system. This anhounce-
ment was compacted in a syndicated news article,
which divulged the endowment and initial progress
of the new Volunteer college.

A $15,000 damage suit brought against the fresh-
man and sopohomore classes of Columbia University
by the owner of a restaurant which was damaged in
a class fight, was dismissed as against the two classes,
and individuals were made defendants instead.

MUSINGS 9 ‘fe
_,MATADOR

ae
VEREEN ey
— BELL cam: itsoscoaine

Well, kiddies, gather ’round while ole Uncle Remus
tells an old story bout the middle ages. The middle
ages aren’t gone yet because if you look to all sides
of you, you'll still find men and women in the middle
ages (35 to 55). But of course that has no bearing on
the story—who ever heard of a story with bearings?
Only cheap automobiles have bearings. Well, let’s see
now. We were going out bearing, so get your gun and
sword. No—no! We were not going out bearing, we
have lost our bearings—My kingdom fer a hoss!

These were the good ole feudal days. There used to
be some excellent poets back in them days—remem-
ber that ole pome,’bout:

“Feud love me lak I loves you,

No knife could cut our love in two”
Yer ain’t gonna foreclose and send us out in the cold,
is yer, Morgan?

In these olden days whereof of which I speak, the
rats were wery, wery bad. So Uncle Jeb was all fer
taking their measure and_-killing them out. So he calls
out his whole family and axed them what they would
do in such a case. All of the young folks had new-
fangled idees as to how it should be and eyen went so
far as to express their idees. One young vassal spoke
up with his plan:

“Uncle Jeb, why don’t you use rat biscuit? That's
what they’re a-doing these days.”

Uncle Jeb looked lak he was gonna blow up.

“Listen here. I ain't never pampered no rats yet
and if they can’t eat the same biscuits we eat right
here they can get out of my castle.”

Naturally enough the subject was dropped right «
where ‘twas ‘cause nobody wanted to argue with
Uncle Jeb when he was riled and if you don’t believe
this is a true story, just think a minute. We still got
rats today ain’t we?

In those days the people didn’t say “Yea” fer yes.
They “Yeo”! So instead of having “yes men”
like got today, had yeomen.

And in those days they didn’t travel by train either.
They had men to carry them around on their shoul-
ders. This was the only way to travel so when a lord,
was looking fer_a call from some one of his néigh-
bors which only ‘bout two hundred miles away
he would say:

“T guess old Pete'll come
And sure

said

we've they

lived

in on the next vassal.”
‘nuff old Pete’d come in on the next vassal.

Now ole Uncle Jeb was a very important man in
them days. He was Secretary of ye Agricolae. He was
often called upon by many people from far and near
‘bout their crops. One day he got a letter
from a man saying he would be over to see him on
a wery important matter. So Uncle Jeb cancelled all
engagements including a marriage engagement with his
girl—to see this feller.

When the vassal came in, Uncle Jeb went to meet
the mati and find out what the matter was. He took
him up to the castle and told him to make himself at
home, For three days the man hung around whilst
Uncle Jeb was preparing his data and everything and
then they had the conference to find out what was
the trouble. So they called on the man to get up and
tell ‘em. He got up with wrinkles all over his fore-
head and said in a mournftl voice:

“Gentlemen, I appreciate all this consideration fon
me,” then he leaned over and whispered: “The truth
is that I have a sunflower that isn’t doing ‘so well!”

And if-you don't believe that I'll tell you somepin
that will make you believe it—That sunflower died.

A, few years later Uncle Jeb had ‘nother call. So
when he went down to the landing to wait for the
next vassal a ‘man got off and said that he had trouble
with his incubator.

“Why, what's the
Jeb.

“Do you know, Uncle Jeb, I bought that thing three
weeks ago and that fool thing hasn't laid an egg till
yet!” :

Now, go to bed kiddies, so ole Uncle Remus can
finish shaving the warts off of these dill pickles.

to see

matter with it?” asked Uncle

Mark Webb, Cambridge University bacteriologist,
told students of the University that wo youths who
had grafted the head of a bee on a beetle .afterward
maintained they had evolved the perfect humbug.

University of Utah students are campaigning to have
a number of their professors placed in the Hall of
Fame being selected by a Salt Lake City newspaper.

War themes won first place among both books and
plays in the poll of “senior superlatives,” at hte New
Jersey College for Women.

Jack Horwitz, Cleveland, makes his way through
Ohio State University by takiig pictures with a spe-
cially built camera, negatives and prints from which
he can turn out in two minutes.

Provisions for the founding of a college were left
in a will of the late Mayor Anthony M. Ruffu, Jr.,
of Atlantic City, who was killed in an automobile

accident. The mayor had hoped to establish the college
in his life-time.

One of the new courses. on the curriculum of the
University of California is one on investments. The
students will learn how to invest money in the stock
market without taking too big a loss.

\
