THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

V.M.I. Grapplers Win
Over Davidson ’Cats

Conway’s Defeat of Parker Feature
Match of Evening

The Virginia Military Institute wrestling
team defeated the Davidson matmen Satur-
day night by a score of 18 to 6. V. M. I.
presented one of the strongest teams that
they have had in several years and won
decisions over the Wildcats in all but the
175 pound and the unlimited classes. In the
175 pound class Warren, of Davidson, won
over Marklis, of V. M. I., with a time ad-
vantage of one minute and thirteen seconds.
Conway’s defeat of Parker, V. M. I., was
the feature match of the evening.

It is unusual that out of the eight matches
not a single fall took place. All the matches
were won on time advantage.

Following is a summary of the meet:

115 pound class—Forsyth, V. M. I., won
over Cowan (Davidson) with time advantage
of six minutes 18 seconds.

125 pound—Will, V. M. I., won over
Gorham, (Davidson) will time advantage of
7 minutes 34 seconds.

135 pound—Fields, V. M. I., won over
Russell (Davidson) with time advantage of
7 minutes 43 seconds.

145 pound—Noble, V. M. I., won over
Brock (Davidson) with time advantage of
3 minutes 53 seconds.

155 pound—McCrary, V. M. I. won over
Brohard (Davidson) with time advantage
of 8 minutes 48 seconds.

165 pound—Tallman, V. M. I., won over
Covington (Davidson) with time advantage
of 5 minutes 25 seconds.

175 pound— Warren (Davidson) won
over Marklis, V. M. I., with time advantage
of one minute 12 seconds.

Unlimited—Conway (Davidson) won over
Parker, V. M. I., with time advantage of
3 minutes 45 seconds.

Three Hard Games
On Fresh Schedule

With three wins and no losses on their
slate at present the Davidson Wildkittens
Basketball tossers will attempt to keep up
their winning streak against Belmont Abbey
on Thursday, January 30, Grensboro High
School on Friday, January 31, Wake Forest
Freshmen on Monday, February 3.

Belmont Abbey will bring a strong team
against the Kittens. They hold a 31 to 28
decision over the team from Steele Creek,
which the Freshmen downed Steele Creek
26 to 22, Belmont Abbey also has defeated
Wingate and other strong teams.

»The Greensboro High School game, also
to be played at Davidson, is expected to be
fast and hard fought. The Freshman hold
two wins over Charlotte High and Charlotte
has defeated Greensboro, but, in spite of this,
a close game is predicted.

On Monday night the Kittens will take on
their first Big’ Five Freshman opponents
when they meet the Wake Forest Freshman
at Davidson. Little is known of the strength
of the invader, but a good game is expected.

The probable line-up for the Belmont
Abbey game is: Forwards, Rogers and Man-
son; Center Pierce; Guards, Wagner and
Peabody.

Are you majoring in Military Science?
Nope, just Second Lieutenanting.

“Hey, your lights are out.”

“IT know it. I just put some of this prohi-
bition alcohol in the radiator and. they went
blind.”

ADVENTURES IN CONTENTMENT
By David Grayson

Garden ‘City Publishing Co., Inc., N. Y.
(Reviewed by H. W. Ervin)

David Grayson is a farmer. Eight years
ago he was not a farmer. He was a business
man. in the city ceaslessly striving to attain
a “vague success” along with innumerable
other money-chasers. He was always in a
mad rush, he never thought nor reflected,
he never sensed pleasure, though he pur-
sued it fiercely during vacation time, he
hurried as though every moment were his
last, as though the world held but one prize
which would be seized by another if he
stopped.

But one day he did stop in the made race
for success, felled by fever. And then he
reflected. He suddenly had a sympathy for
those who had dropped out of the race
before and could not understand why he did
not regret having stopped. Golden memories
of his boyhood life on a farm thrust upon
him an indescribable longing to be back
there, sitting in quiet thickets, drinking in
the pure air, and sweating in the hay fields.

And so he goes back. First he rents a
farm, and finding it perfectly suitable, buys
it. Here at last he finds success; not the
success of glittering gold fought for in
overcrowded cities and overstuffed offices,
nor that of social prominence coveted by
superficial dandies wallowing in wealth, but
the success of contentment, the joy of living,
the perfect peace of mind, the independence
of honesty, which he finds in farm life and
as his own master.

Here in the country a man deals with an
individual man; he does not address him as
a mere machine, but studies and enjoys his
personality, and makes a friend of him. Little
things are big things. The making of an
axe-helve demands patience, skill, and a
week of time. And when it is made, the
author describes himself as being possessed
with a childish impatience to try it out.

One day he has an argument with a mil-
lionaire, who contends that it is best for a
young man to spend his time acquiring a
fortune so that he can retire later in life.
Grayson answers that he cannot afford to do
that. “Let us say,” addressing the million-
aire, “that you are willing to invest twenty
years of your life in a million dollars. You
have it where you can put it in the bank and
take it out again, or you can give it form in
houses, yachts, and other things. Now twenty
years of my life—to me—is worth more
than a million dollars. I simply can’t afford
to sell it for that. I prefer to invest it, as
somebody or other has said ‘unearned in
life.’ I’ve always had a liking for intangible
properties.”

Yes, David Grayson is a philosopher. Or
at least he is philosophical enough to appre-
ciate that the greatest joys of life come not
from the acquisition and possession of
wealth, but from contentment with life.

In like manner he tells of experiences with
a tramp, conversation with an infidel, who
can talk about little more than pamphlet
he has written, death of the old beloved
country doctor, and the trend in politics as
observed by the patrons of Baxter’s shop.
shop. me

“What I am seeking,” he says, “is some-
thing as simple and as quiet as the trees on
the hills—just to look around me at the
pleasant countryside, to enjoy a little of this
passing show, to meet (and help a little if
I may) a few human beings and thus to get
more nearly into the sweet kernel of human

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon,

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

_P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

White, solid colors or pastel: trims.

BOOKS WE HAVE

Freshman Basketball
REA HOW THE SCORE
PIBbCO oc wascoeus ci case cakeauacas 24
Rogers one nn nn oo 5 e+ 5 ee 18 that
life.” And if we are to believe his writings,| Peabody _-_--------.------------ 10 COLD and COUGH
that is precisely what he gets. Menten oe 9 take
If you have wearied of technical reading Ere 5 :
and of abstruse textbooks and feel as though WII ee sac nda huacava 2
you have become saturated with fact and 68 it
formula, this is a book Cate, bade January 7
mend for your diversion and relief of mind. ° 3
Or if you have had an* overdose of fable diag a paerie 2 So aa Guns Boadeias; ahd boa Glbee Bled
and fiction and have despaired in the con- Freshman 20—CI sitithy High 9 youn ORUCCIST fe C
trasting sameness of real life, “Adventures January 27 x HAS COLDEX ll U. 8. Cn
In Contentment” will reveal to you the ro- Freshman 26—Steele Creek 22
mance of plain living. It is a book to pick Fresh 49 i a
up early on a delightful spring afternoon and Moerman othe lB og

to lay down as the rays of the setting sun

redden the western sky.

Varsity Basketball

HOW THEY SCORE

A Minister of the Gospel

WGEHNStON: . Suess ccceecddececlecesa 66 a
a . SHOULD BE
IMMER ORS obese edu Ske cee eeesuuee 14
eee 2, GROUNDED IN THE TRUTH
MOONS 40 ee eu eecouEe  uuaue cogs 5
ead ae os TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
as ONE OF THE AIMS OF
OPNATG: S08 Cccseouecusscues ase 4

VARSITY SCORES

Davidson 50—Catawba 26.
Davidson 33—Charlotte Y 18.
Davidson 29—Wofford 15.
Davidson 20—Furman 33.
Davidson 22—Carolina 20.
Davidson 39—Lenoir Rhyne 25.
Davidson 38—Charlotte Y 39.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,

' Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

Marnie
Davidson 231—Opponents 176.

A PLEASANT LITTLE
BREATHING SPELL —

~ CAMEL

If life is just one thing after another ry let
Camels fill the little gaps between ry with
pleasure g Each Camel means a _ pleasant
breathing spell g a brief interval for the
oe of rare aroma g and fragrant

cheer g Salute each twist and turn in your

busy day g by inviting yourself g to have

a Camel!

You can smoke Camels as often as you like .. . and enjoy
an extra measure of pleasure every time . . . because Camels
never tire your taste nor leave any after-taste . . . because
they are mild, mellow and smooth . . . cool and refreshing
.-. an expert blend of the choicest tobaccos grown.

<=

© 1930, R. J. Reynolds Tebacee
Cc , Wi aol, N.C.

