TOMORROW SATURDAY
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” '
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 27, 1930 No. 19

Converse Club To Render
Concert Here Tomorrow

—_—.

Miss Mary Lou Kirby is Soloist—
Program Will Contain Varied
Attractions

STABLES DIRECTOR

Organization is Brought Here by
Junior Class

Tomorrow night the Davidson student
body will be hosts to the Converse College
Glee Club. Every year Converse presents
a program which is one of the high spots
of the season here; and the presentation
tomorrow night, under the auspices of the
Junior class, is reported to be even better
than ever.

This organization is quite famous through-
out North and South Carolina and other
Southern states for its splendid musical
talent. It is under the direction of Prof.
Glenn C. Stables, a musician with an un-
usually fine voice. Professor Stables sang
last year at Davidson, and will be remem-
bered by many students.

The Glee Club, consisting of thirty-three
members, offers a special attraction this
year in the person of Miss Mary Lou Kirby,
soloist. In the past the programs have been
varied by dance numbers, popular music, both
solos and choral selections, and the repetoire
this year Will no doubt hold some unusual
surprises.

The first performance of the club this
year was presented in Spartanburg on Feb-
ruary 8, before a large audience, and it is
expected that a large number of students will
be present in the auditorium tomorrow pce

Cause of “Los Angeles”
Visit Comes To Light

Commander Had Esp Especial Desire to
See Davidson College—Letter
Dropped from Ship

When the United States dirigible Los An-
geles flew over this section some time ago.
there was much conjecture as to the cause
of the trip through North Carolina, but the
real reason of the flight came to light here
recently when a letter was received by Prof.
J. P. Williams of the Davidson College
faculty from Lieutenant Commander Herbert
V. Wiley, in charge of the Los Angeles, in
which the commander said that he wanted to
pay a visit to his friend on the Davidson
campus for old time’s sake.

Lieutenant Commander Wiley and Mr.
Williams are friends of long standing, having
known each other for many years. Both of
them went to high school together in Mis-
souri. Last summer Mr. Williams was in
New York, and while in that city got in
touch with the Los Angeles commander, and
they were ‘together on several occasions.

In his letter Mr. Wiley said that he flew
from Paris Island inland until he reached
Davidson, and from this point followed the
mail route back to Lakehurst. When passing
over Davidson he came down to an unusually
low altitude and dropped a note to Mr. Wil-
liams, the note being enclosed in an alumi-
num tube put into the end of a piece of
bunting. :

Mr. Williams, however, never received the
message, it evidently falling at an isolated

spot or was picked up by someone who failed }.

to hand it to him. Several Davidson’ people
have remarked that they saw something fall
from the Los, Angeles, but the whereabouts
of the note is unknown today.

The ship was flying at the rate of 60
knots an hour when it passed over David-
son, according to the commander. He ad-
vanced this rapid rate and the slow descent
of the message as the reason he could not
follow it to the ground, and see where it
landed. Commander Wiley said that he was
evidently not a very zood bomber with such
a light missile. Students: and townspeople
were clearly discernible as the ship went over
on its northward flight, he said:

The Los Angeles commander price
himself as very much .impressed with the
appearance of the country in this part of

Faculty Entertains
Seniors with Party

Last year the Faculty gave the Senior
class a house-party, a thing which is being
done again this year. Plans have been made
for an enjoyable week-end, March 1 and 2.
Almost every Senior has invited a girl, and
a large crowd is expected.

From 4:00 to 5:30, Saturday afternoon,
March 1, there will be an informal recep-
tion at the Social Center. The purpose of
this reception is to get acquainted.

At 8:00 o'clock, Saturday night, in the
Auditorium, there will be a program, the
nature of which the Faculty still keeps
secret. This entertainment will last Hides
bly till about 11:00 o'clock. It is important
that everyone come on time, because after
the program has started the doors will be
closed, and no one will be admitted.

After this, there will be a midnight feast
in the banquet hall of Chambers. Various
stunts will be given by Seniors, whose names
were not divulged. A Grand March will
conclude the day's entertainment.

R.O.T.C. Inspection
To Be Held in in April

Colonel Little to be to be in Charge of
War Department Review

The annual inspection of the Davidson
R. O. T. C. Unit will be held on Aprill 22
and 23. Colonel Little of Greensboro will be
in charge. He will probably be assisted by
Captain Edmunds of Charlotte.

_ Two days will be required to complete the
inspection. The class room work will be
inspected and the students will be tested in
practical knowledge.

A parade will be put on for the visiting
officers and the entire batallion will be in-
spected. The arms and stores will be in-
spected to see that they are being kept in
the proper condition.

Some kind of entertainment will be pro-
vided for the visitors by the local chapter of
Scabbard and Blade. Last year a banquet
was given and something of that nature will
be given this year also.

At the inspection last year the local batal-
lion was given a rating of “Excellent,” which
is the highest rating given to a school of
this type.

Dr. Hood Describes
Geneva Conference

McCutchan and Matthews Elected
Delegates to Convention

At a meeting of the International Rela-
tions Club held Monday night, February
24 in the Faculty club room, J. W. Mc-
Cutchan was elected to represent the club
at the Students’ Convention of International
Relations Clubs to be held at Macon, Ga.,
February 27, 28, and March 1. It is also
possible that J: C. Matthews will go on this
trip, as he received the second highest num-
ber of votes.

Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Phycho-
logy at Davidson, delivered an informal ad-
dress based on his observance of the League
of Nations machinery at Geneva in 1926.
He told of how he got into the private meet-
ing of the Executive Council and how he
matched wits .with-the door-keeper to ob-
tain this admittance. Doctor Hood described
the Peace Palace at Geneva and also told
of the appearance of the Conference to an
outsider.
SSS ———————
North Carolina, and said that he would like
to visit here some day. Mr. Williams has
written the Commander inviting him to
Davidson, not in the Los Angeles, however,

for there is no mooring mast on the campus.

Interesting Talks Given
By Famous Ex-Publisher

Mr. William Ellsworth of Connecti-
cut Delivers Series of Instructive
Lectures Before Students

PROMINENT WRITER

Two of the Lectures Illustrated
With Slides

It has been the privilege of the Davidson
student body during the past week to have
as its guest Mr. William Ellsworth of New
Hartford, Conn. Mr. Ellsworth, who was
formerly associated with the Ceritury Pub-
lishing Company of New York, is a gifted
speaker and is an authority on the subject
of English Literature. It is interesting to
note that Mr. Ellsworth, a gifted writer
himself, is the grandson of Noah Webster,
famed lexicographer.

The first lecture delivered by Mr. Ells-
worth was heard at the chapel exercises on
Thursday morning, the subject being, “The
English Bible.” In this talk Mr. Ellsworth
presented the Bible as one of the best exam-
ples of English Literature, saying that, if
all other records of the English language
were destroyed, the Bible alone would be
able to preserve for future generations the
beauty of that language.

“It is a fortunate thing that men with
music in their hearts translated the Bible,”
said the speaker, and he showed how the
very beauty of the Book lies in its simpli-
city of words, most of which scarcely ex-
ceed the vocabularly of a child; and in the
exquisite choice and use of these words.
This simplicity appeals to educated and un-
educated alike. Since the King James’ trans-
lation was made many men have attempted
to render this Bible differently, but no other
translation seems to possess the beauty, the
poetry, and the music of the King James
Version. “It has the power to stir the imagi-
nation and move the soul as no other book.
No one can become a great master of the
English language without studying our
Bible.”

“The Times of Queen Elizabeth” was the
subject. of his second address delivered
Thursday night. Mr. Ellsworth pointed out
the fact that the Queén, herself was not only
interested in writing but was the inspiration

(Continued on page 4)

Carson Is To Lead
“Y” Vespers Sunday

Speaker is Davidson Alumnus and
Prominent Charlotte Business

A prominent business man of Charlotte
will speak at the Y. M. C. A. Vesper serv-
ices Sunday evening March 2. Mr. McAlister
Carson, a Davidson alumnus has been fectited
for this service.

Mr. Carson isthe manager of the Insur-
ance Department of the Independence Trust
Company in Charlotte. He is well known in
business circles and is also an active Church
worker, being an elder in the First Presby-
terian Church of Charlotte.

A few weeks ago, when Dr. Harry Rim-
mer spoke the first time at the “Y’’ Vespers,
Mr. Carson accompanied him to Davidson
and introduced him as the speaker for that
service.

Fourteen Men Bid
By Honorary Frats

Two honorary fraternities, Sigma” Upsilon,
Literary, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Chem-
ical, have issued bids during the past week.

Those bids issued by the Blue Chapter of
Sigma Upsilon are the only ones to be
issued this year. Bids were given to F. D.
Miller, H. W. White, J. L. Brown, and J. B.
Knox, Seniors; J. B. .Black, Jr, A. R.
Bird, Jr., J. W. McCutchan, P. R. Alder-
man, and H. M. Norfleet, Jr., Juniors.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon issued bids to A. L.
DeCamp, J. A. Alden, H. A, Cox, and A. J.
Thompson, Seniors; W. W. Fraley, Junior.

Both these fraternities are national. Gam-
ma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson.

.

Davidson Trustees Elect
Dunn President Of Board

Musical Fraternity
Brings Artist Here

On Thursday evening, March 6, at seven-
thirty o'clock in the New Chambers Audi-
torium, Davidson students and faculty will
have the opportunity of hearing Edwin M.
Steckel in an evening of music entitled
“What Music does to you.” The appearance
will be under the auspices of Mu Beta Psi,
the local musical fraternity.

Mr. Steckel will be remembered here for
his appearance last season when he enter-
tained a large audience for an hour and a
half under most unfavorable circumstances
with a great number of the audience forced
to stand throughout the program.

This musician and popular entertainer is
in great demand in this section and combines
in a most pleasing manner a discourse on
things musical and playing of artistic merit.
He has appeared at all the leading colleges
in this section as well as before scores of
dinner clubs, music clubs and conventions.

In his program here Mr. Steckel will
make use of the Skinner organ in the audi-
torium of Chambers building.

Mr. Steckel has filled upwards of one
hundred dates in North and South Carolina
during the past three years. As a lecturer,
entertainer and recitalist he has delighted
audiences throughout the Piedmont section.
An honor graduate of the New England Con-
servatory of Music, he has spent four years
in the south as Director of Music in the Gas-
tonia Public Schools and as Organist and
Director of Music in the Second Presbyter-
ian Church and Scottish Rite Cathedral in
Charlotte. He has also been a member of
the faculty of the New York University
School of Music and of the Winthrop Mas-
ter School of Music.

Battalion Reviewed
By Visiting General

On Monday afternoon February 17, Gen.
Lucius R. Holbrook, of Fort Bragg, visited
Davidson and witnessed a parade of the
R. O. T. C. Battalion.

General Holbrook said that he had had
the desire to see the college and its unit
ever since the Army-Davidson game. He
fad heard much of the college since then
because of the remarkable showing that
Davidson made in regard to score, not to
mention the record made by the Wildcats in
gameness and sportsmanship. Thus the gen-
eral, during a short stay in Charlotte where
the Spanish-American War veterans met to
unveil a monument to the U.S.S. Maine, was
extended an invitation by Colonel Scott to
come see the college and to review the local
R.O.T.C. unit. He accepted and was the
guest of the college Monday afternoon a
week ago.

General Holbrook made the statement that
the batallion made a very creditable showing,
especially for this time of year and that the
instructors deserved a great deal of credit.
Likewise, he was very much pleased with
Davidson as a whole.

Preparations Made
For Junior ior Speaking

According to the Sani. unior class officers plans
are nearly completed for the annual Junior
speaking to be held March 14 and 15, and
arrangements have been made in prepara-
tion for one of the biggest week-ends ever
held on the Davidson campus.

The Co-Ed Follies from the University of
South Carolina have been engaged to appear
in full swing. Their retinue consists of ten
people. They have a regular performance,
which they will present in-co-operation with
a cabaret and minstrel of local accummula-
tion on Saturday evening.

Everyone who has not thus far invited a
girl for this occasion is urged to do so

promptly.

Doctor Lingle Will B Be Inaugurated
as President of Davidson at
Commencement Next June

VARIOUS HEADS REPORT

Several Members of Faculty Given
Promotion

Approximately thirty members of the
Davidson College board of trustees met at
Davidson last Wednesday for their semi-
annual mid-winter session. They listened to
the reports of the president, treasurer, and
departmental heads and elected R. A. Dunn,
of Charlotte, permanent president of the
board, decided upon the time of dedication
of the new Chambers building and the inau-
guration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as’ presi-
dent of the college, elevated several of the
Davidson .professors and attended to routine
business.

When Doctor Lingle was chosen president
of Davidson last June, he immediately re-
signed as president of the Board of Trustees.
Mr. Dunn was vice-president and has been
temporarily acting as head of the board.
Early in the session he was made perman-
ent president. No vice-president was selected.
Mr. Dunn has been a member of the David-
son board. since 1893 and for the past thirty
years has been head of the finance committee,
responsible for the investment of Davidson
funds.

The board agreed to inaugurate Doctor
Lingle as president of the college and to
have the dedication of the new Chambers
building during the commencement period
next June. A committee was appointed to
work out the plans. The exact date of these
two events will be decided by a committee of
five members.

Dr. J. S. Foster, of Winston-Salem, chair-
man of the committee appointed by the Synod
of North Carolina to go before the board
and make overtures concerning the abolish-
ment of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, was
present with several members of his com-
mittee and presented his report. Mr. Dunn
was instructed to appoint a committee to
make an exhaustive study of the question,
the report to be made at the next meeting.
Mr. Dunn withheld his appointment tempo-
arily, asking that he be given a week for
consideration.

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, who has been
director of physical education for the past
two, years, was made professor of physical
education. Associate Professor John P. Wil-
liams was made full professor of business
administration. Assistant Professors H. E.
Fulcher and W. N. Mebane, Jr., were made
associate professors of physics and mathema-
tics respectively. Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr.
W. Grey, who although have passed the
age of automatic retirement, were re-elected
by the board, as professors of Greek and
Latin respectively.

Announcement was made that the Otts
fund, established for lectureship courses “in
defense of the truth of the Bible and of Chris-
tainity” had reached the sum of $10,000. It
was recommended that this fund now be
used and the board approved of the unani-
mous faculty choice of Dr. Harris E. Kirk,
of Baltimore, former moderator of the
Southern Presbyterian General Assembly, as
the next lecturer.

The usual appropriation of travel funds
was mate in order to allow two professors
to spend the summer or part of it in Europe.
One will be chosen by seniority of service
on the faculty, and the other elected by the
executive committee of the faculty. The two
instructors have already been selected, but
their names will not be divulged until a
later date.

In Doctor Lingle’s report to the board,
which featured the meeting, and which. gave
a detailed survey of the college’s work, the
attendance at the 1929 summer school ses-
sion was emphasized and the president re-
vealed that out of the 162 students enrolled,
90 were public school teachers and 72 were
seeking college credit. As a re-action to
this, the board voted that summer school
should hereafter be considered an integral

(Continued on Page 5)
