BASKETBALL . : WILDCATS
SATURDAY sa ; VERSUS
CHARLOTTE , NORTH CAROLINA

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII , DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 9, 1930 No. 14

“Make Yourself King” Is
Topic Of Orr’s Sermon

At “Y” Vesper Services

For Success One Should Strive for
Self-Discovery, Self-Mastery, and
Self-Expression

DISCOVER YOURSELF

Speaker is Prominent A. R. P.
Pastor of Charlotte

At the first “Y” vesper service of the
year, Sunday evening, Rev. Ernest Neal Orr
of the Tabernacle, A. R. P. Church, in
Charlotte, N. C., brought us a most  in-
spiring message for the year on, “The Man
Whod Would Be King.”? Wm. Rule led the
singing ; Chester Arnold and Don McQueen
led in prayer; and Bob Norton read the
Scripture and introduced the speaker.

“King,” said Mr. Orr, “is an old English
word meaning ‘can.’ The primary requisite
of a king is not a crown or a throne but
the ability to be equal to the occasion at
hand. This is the characteristic you must
gain if you would be king. There are three
definite things you must do in order to
attain kingship.

“First, you must discover what you have
to offer—along what lines you are talented.
That is the field in which you will win.
Scientists tell us that there are no two men
alike in the world. We are all different in
our likes and dislikes, in our physical and
mental powers, in our talents and so in our
abilities. No one of us can hope to make the
greatest possible success by imitating some+
one else. Search out you own abilities and
train them. Then you are started on the
pathway to royalty. Self-discovery is the
first essential.

“In the modern civilized world we have
the great giants of fire, water, steam, eléctri-
city, and others that serve us because they
are under control. Without this they are a
great menace. As we glance through the
pages of history we see countless numbers
of men of great ability and genius who made
utter failures of their lives because they
lacked self-control. Without this quality of
self-mastery we can never hope to achieve
distinction in any line. Some of the subjects
that are especially benefited by control are
your thoughts, your temper, and your tongue.
Gene Tunney, when asked what the essen-
tials of a good boxer were, gave these:
strength, skill, speed, stamina, and most of
all nervous control, which last was respon-
sible for his second victory over Dempsey.

“Today the world awaits your own ex-
pression. It is not interested in the repro-
duction of your father or some other great
man. It has that already. The man who ‘suc-
ceeds is he who car present something new
and better, an improvement on the old not
a carbon copy. David could not fight Goliath
with the armour and approved instruments
of war of the time. He won because he used
tnethods suited to his size and experience.
Mordecai receives the recognition and good
will of the Persian king because he stood
out different from the surrounding mass. Be

sure to get started right, then use your own

way. This, of course, does not mean to. dis-
regard lessons learned by others through
experience and hard knocks, but remember
that most men sink into nameless graves
while once in a while a man forgets him-
self into immortality. Where can a better
example be found of this than in Dr. Wilfred
T. Grenfell, the promising young English
physician who gave his life to improving
the conditions along the Labrador coast.

“Would you be king? Then strive for
Self-discovery, Self-mastery, Self-expres-
sion.”

Gardner Made Head
Of French Society

A short business meeting of Le Cercle
Francais, honorary French Society of David-
son College, was held at the home of Dr.
G. B. Watts, on the evening of January 6.
R. M. Christian resigned his presidency, and
J. E. Gardner was elected in his place. The
other officers of the club are M. E. Love,
vice-president and J. F. Preston, secretary.

Le Cercle Francais is composed of stu-

(Continued on page 6)

Lingle Will Fill Big

Speaking Schedule}:

Six speaking engagements have been ar-
ranged for Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president
of Davidson College, during the month of
January. His schedule includes two import-
ant addresses and several sermons in this
state and Virginia.

Founder’s Day at’ Queen's College, Char-
lotte, will be the occasion of one of his ad-
dresses, next Saturday, “January 11. The
following Sunday he will preach at Laurel
Hill Church near Laurinburg, North Caro-
lina.

Doctor Lingle will attend the annual meet-
ing of the American Association of Colleges
which will be held in Washington, D. C.,

January 13-16, \

On January 19 he will deliver a sermon
at the Prospect Presbyterian Church, located
twelve miles northeast of Davidson. “It was
at Prospect Church that the Concord Pres-
bytery took the original action for the found-
ing of Davidson College more than ninety
years ago,” President Lingle stated.

He will make the main address at the
graduation exercises of the public schools
at Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Friday
night, January 24, |

Concluding the engagements of the month,
President Lingle will preach Sunday, Jan-
uary 26, at the Westminster Presbyterian
Church, of Lynchburg, Virginia, of which
Rev. R. M. Miles, a Davidson alumnus, is
pastor.

Final Effort Made
In Y.M.C.A. Drive

Bulk of Money Goes to Banner Elk

The Banner Elk fund, which we have been
hearing much’ about of late, will be
brought to a close on January J0. The plans
at present are to collect all of the money
which has been pledged and to send part of
the fund to The Lees-McRae Institute at
Banner Elk, The other portion of the fund
will be used here in Davidson for the pur-
pose of aiding in the erection of a Sunday
School building in the mill village part of
town. .- <

Before the Christmas holidays a total of
two hundred and thirty-two dollars had
been collected; since that time the total has
been’ swelled to four hundred and_ sixteen
dollars.

A total of all the money pledged shows
that nearly a thousand dollars have heen
promised by the students and others. The
generous gifts of the faculty and townspeo-
ple have also been a great factor in the cam-
paign. It is hoped that all those who are
called upon to donate to this cause will give
freely, because it surely could not go to a
more worthy cause.

Just before Christmas about two hundred
dollars of the fund was sent to Banner Elk
as a Christmas gift from Davidson College,

so

ho

. 4
Junior and Senior

Honors Due

All Seniors and Juniors are re-
quested to turn in a list of their
honors for the annual immediately.
The following data is requested:
Name in full, address in full, degree
taken and in what (example: A.B. I
in English), and all campus honors.
This list mast be in, complete, be-
fore examinations begin in order
that the work on these sections of
the book may not be delayed. A box
has been placed on the porch of
Georgia where these lists may be
deposited for collection by the
proper authorities.

Senior Houseparty
Planned By Faculty

All Seniors Are Urged to Bring
Girls

On the week-end of February 22, a house
party will be given to the Senior class by
the Faculty, This custom was begun last
year, and to the delight of the present Sen-
ior class, will be continued. this year. The
Faculty committee in charge has not as yet
definitely announced its plans but has stated
that the entertainment will be even better
than the one given last year. All Seniors
have been urged to bring girls, and it now
looks as if the feminine atentdance will be
one hundred per cent. The girls will be enter-
tained in the homes of the Faculty members
by special invitation. The whole studentsbody
wishes the Senior class a very pleasant week-
end,

Davidson Trustees
Meet In Charlotte

The executive committee pf the Trustees
of Davidson College met.in Charlotte today,
to consider a number of impbprtant ‘matters
including the report of the president and
plans for the session of next year,

R. A. Dunn, vice chairman if the Board
of Trustees, presided at the meeting as the
office of chairman was vacated dn the resig-
nation of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who resigned
to accept the presidency of the college. The
chairman will be elected at the February
meeting of the board, according to President
Lingle. {

and also as a sort of reminder of what is
coming later.

It should not be misunderstood that the
campaign is over for donations will be gladly
received. The gifts, it is hoped will be given
in the next few days so that the drive will
go over the, thousand dollar mark,

LOCAL CHAPTER

‘Gamma Sigma Epsilon is Honored

at National Convention

For the chapter showing the most progress
during the past two years, the Alpha Alpha
Chapter of the National Chemistry frater-
nity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, located at Dav-
idson College, received a cup at the National
Convention held at Columbia, South Caro-
lina.

The .convention was held November 29
and 30 and was attended by E. L. Lafferty,
the Grand Alchemist of the local chapter
and Prof. O. J. Thies, a member of the
National Council..The cup has been held by
the Wake Forest Chapter for the last few
years,

It has been customary for the local chapter
to hold an open meeting each year in the
spring. It is planned, it is understood, to get
some chemist of national importance to ad-
dress this meeting this year, if possible.

This fraternity, which was founded in
1919, has the mother chapter at Davidson.
It is said to be one of the most active of the
honorary fraternities on the campus.

RECEIVES

NATIONAL HONORS TROPHY

Local Glee Club
Plans T ‘wo Trips

The Davidson Glee Club is planning to
start its early trip on February 11, which
itinerary will include the north-western part
of the state. Tentative arrangements have
been made for engagements at China Grove,
Salisbury, Greensboro College for Women,
N. C. C. W., Salem College, and Mitchell
College.

°The Club has created a very favorable im-
pression for itself by its recent radio broad-
Casts over station WBT at Charlotte, and a
considerable demand for the college singers
has grown up as a consequence. The Club
will be accompanied this year as heretofore
by the jazz and concert orchestras.

The itinerary for the second trip which the
clubs plans to take some time in April is
not yet complete. The tour} will be through
the South, where concerts will probably be
given at Converse, Anderson College, Bre-
nau, Agnes Scott, Shorter College, Lincoln-
ton, Gastonia and Belmont.

Debaters Announce
Schedule for 1930

A preliminary schedule for the Varsity
Debaters has been arranged with one South-
ern trip, which includes Emory University
at Atlanta, Birmingham Southern at Bir-
mingham, University of Alabama at Tusca-
loosa, and the University of Florida. The
heme debates are as follows: William and
Mary, Wake Forest, and University
Richmond, Neither the dates for the debates
nor the date of the tryouts which will take
place early in February have been arranged
yet, but will be fixed soon.

ol

The Varsity Debaters back this year are
Z. V. Long, Jr, R. M. Christian, E. E.
Marsh, Jr., C. R. Pritchett, J. C. Matthews,
and W. B. MeGuire, Jr. There are expected
to be many others who will go out. Accord?
ing to report given out today by R. M,
Christian, president of the Forensic Council,
everyone who wishes to debate must try out.
Those men who were on the team last year
are not necessarily on the team this year.

The Freshman Debating Team will meet
Carolina in a dual debate probably in April.
Debaters also have in store for them the
Junior and Freshmen Oratorical Contests
which are anntial events.

Class of ?33 Meets
To Elect President

Organization of the Freshman class began
Monday morning. According to the Consti-
tution of the Government of the Davidson
Student Body, a nominating committee from
the Student Council submitted the
of five Freshmen to that class to be voted
on for President. The names submitted Mon-
day morning after chapel were: J. B. Clark,
Jr., from Fayetteville, N. C.; J. D. Enochs,
from Bluefield, W. Va.; W. A. Flynn, from
Atlanta, Ga.; U. Gardner, Decatur, Ga.;
Charlie Pearce, Plant City, Fla. On Tuesday
morning there were nominations from the
floor. The first ballot was also taken. It will
probably be the end of the week before the

names

President is elected.

Some weeks after his election, the Presi-
dent conducts the election of the vice-presi-
dent and the secretary-treasurer.

Wildkittens Open
Season with Win

Charlotte High Nosed Out in Close
Battle

The Davidson Wildkittens opened their
basketball season with a hard fought victory
overs the Central High Basketeers from
Charlotte on the Davidson floor Tuesday
night. The final count was 22 to 18.

Charlotte used effective man-to-man
defense which kept the Kittens securely
covered for the firt half, and played safe
on the offensive, holding the ball until they
were able to get an opening, and then making
the play for the basket. This type of play
seemed to bewilder the Kittens, and they
ended the initial half on the low end of an
exceptionally low count, 7 to 5. In the
third quarter, however, the red-jersied quint
found itself to’ some extent and ran up a
short lead which was never headed, although
Charlotte rallied in the closing minutes and
almost evened things up.

The McCachren brothers for the visitors
led the field with seven points, while Pierce
for Davidson followed with six. Peabody at
running guard played a fast floor game and
was good for five counters. Alexander was a
tower of strength to his team, breaking up
many Davidson passes and proving instru-
mental in his teams attack.

Lineup and summary :

Davidson
Rogers (4)

an

Charlotte Hi
Bell (2)

Forward

Manson:<((6) 2s estes ees Peabody M.
Forward

Riera (6) {sesso ee Alexander (1)
Center

Peabody B (5)_/ Beet ss McCachren (7)
Guard

Wiarnet .(2)) occas aac enecea= Villas (1)
Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, Enochs,. .Ber-

nard; Charlotte, Hatcher, McCachren D (7).
Referee: Rawson( Georgia).

Wildcats And Tarheels

Start Big Five Season
In Charlotte Saturday

Coach Younger to Put Experienced
Courtmen Against North Caro-
g lina’s Seasoned Players

BOTH TEAMS PRIMED

Cats Out to Avenge Lasi Yeav’s
Defeat

The Davidson Wildeats and the University
of North Carolina Tar Heels pry off the
lid on the Big Five basketball race in.Char-
lotte Saturday night when these two fast
quintets tangle up. Both teams are due to
make strong bids for the state championship
this year and as neither desires to be handi-
capped by a loss in the fifst engagement, a
hattle that will be nip and tuck all the way
is assured.

Coach Ashmore has fashioned another
strong team this year around two veteran
guards and a center. He lost four farwards
by graduation last year and has found it
“necessary to do some experimenting to find
a suitable pair for that place. Reports from
the Tar Heels’ camp state that Neiman and
Kdwards looked pretty good at the offensive
posts, but were being pushed by Hutchison
and Slater. These four men should all see
service in the engagement Saturday night.
If two of this quartet should come through
in real fashion, it is goin& to be hard to hold
the Tar Heels off from a state title.

Brown and Marpet, from
year’s championship team,
stride. Choate, a last season, - can
he substituted without
much loss of defensive or ‘offensive power.
At center, Puny Hafper dominates the posi-

last
their

veterans
have hit
reserve

whenever necessary

tion, He stands six feet six in stocking feet—
they have trouble finding shoes for him--and
is very fast. He is strong both on defense
and offense. Dameron, only an inch shorter
than Puny, relieves the first. string. giant
when necessary and can-carry on in fine
style.

Coach Monk Younger has
trouble finding the correct combination from
his wealth of material, but. the games this
week have probably determined the first
string combmation which gives the best
results. Pritchett and Johnson, are as nice
a pair of forwards as there is in the state
and probably have that position sewed up.
Johnston, however, may be switched to cen-
ter at times, but with Rtisk and Milton mak-
ing such strong bids for the place, it hardly
seems likely that anyone else is needed for
that position. Goodson has one guard taken
care of very nicely, but Proctor, Mathis and
Gilbert are fighting it out for the other
place and which one finally gets the call is

been having

still a question open for discussion.

Both Carolina and Davidson can put expe-
rienced fives on the court Saturday. The
majority of first string men, no matter how
they line up, are veterans from last year.
The Tar. Heels engaged in several games
before Christmas, came back early after the
holidays and have been hard at work since.
They have played a few games since the
beginning of the year, too, The Wildcats
have had three games this. wéek, and one
just before the close .of school, so are no
novices themselves. The game should be a
fast offensive duel and with a wealth of
reserves, neither team will find it necessary
to let up on the pace. With the winner get-
ting off to a good start in the State race,
both teams will put out to win, and one of
the best games of the season may be ex-
pected.

Dr. Lingle Recovers
Stolen Pocketbook

The last episode in Dr. Walter Lingle’s
experience with a pickpocket in Chicago
seems to have been completed for the pocket ;
book was returned to its owner a few days
ago. While in Chicago a few weeks ago,
where he presided over the executive com-
mittee of the Council of Church of Christ in
America, Doctor Lingle was relieved of a
pocketbook containing about $65. The pick-
pocket, after extracting the money, dropped
the pocketbood, unwrapped, into a mail box
in Chicago. The postmaster in that city

(Continued on page 6)
