THE DAVIDSONIAN,. OCTOBER 16, 1930

’*S ALL RIGHT
GANG
FIGHT ’EM!

THE SPORTS PARADE

+
J

DAVIDSON vs CITADEL
SATURDAY
CENTRAL HIGH"
STADIUM

Duke Blue Devils Down
Davidson Eleven 12 to 0
In Hard Fought Battle

Wildcats Hold Powerful Foes Score-
less Until Midway in Last Period

BREWER IS DUKE STAR

Hard Charging Blue Devil Line
Smothers Wildcat Backs

The rejuvenated Duke Blue Devils were
just too much for a bewildered Davidson
eleven, and after being held scoreless for
three periods, they pushed over two touch-
downs in the closing minutes of play. Far
outclassed in gaining power, yet still a fight-
ing band of ’Cats when their goal line was
threatened, Davidson repulsed the Blue
Devils time after time within the shadow
of their own goal.

Duke started off with a rush. Taking
Brock’s punt deep in their own territory,
Duke ran it up to the Wildcats’ 10-yard
line. Brewer, Mullins,’ Eshler, and Murray
seemed to be able to gain at will through
the Wildcat line, and a touchdown seemed
inevitable. However, the Wildcats exhibited
some of their well-known Wildcat fight and
held the Blue Devils for downs.

After this attempt had failed, Davidson
made its one and only threat of the game.
Proctor intercepted a Blue Devil pass on the
Duke 37-yard line, and aided by a 12-yard
pass from Fraley to Pierce, the Wildcats
took the ball to Duke’s 13-yard line. There
the Methodists braced and .took the ball
away.

In the final period, Rosky, Duke's signal-
calling left end, broke through to block
Brock’s punt and his teammate, Hayes, re-
covered it on the Wildcat 42-yard line.
Brewer and Murray alternated with the ball
in a touchdown drive, Brewer going across
for the score. The Blue Devils scored again
a few minutes later, when Mills, sub-back
for the Wildcats, misjudged a punt, barely
touching it, and the ever alert Hayes recov-
ered for Duke on the Davidson 10-yard line.
Aided by a five-yard penalty, Eshler crossed
for the second Duke score. For the second

Tennis Tournament

Finals Are Reached

In the fall tennis tournament, M. L. Rod-
dey defeated Capt. Bill Poe, 8-6, 6-2. The
outcome of. this match, played Monday,
places Roddey in the finals. Poe, in order
to play Roddey, snatched a victory from a
tough opponent in W. R. Morrow, the score

being 6-2, 8-6. Roddey met and defeated’

Duncan Calder in the quarter-finals.

Roddey’s opponent will be one of the fol-
lowiti® men: Dean Dusk, Sylvester McLean,
and Gene DuBose. DuBose took his last

match from J. A. Alexander, thus to enter

the semi-finals and the winner of the Mc-
Lean-Rusk contest will meet DuBose. Who-
ever comes out victorious in the latter, will
clash with Roddey to decide the fall tennis
champion.

The finals were played yesterday afternoon
but the results were not available as The
Davidsonian goes to press.

’Cat Reserves Lose
To Belmont Eleven

Belmont Scores in First Period on
Intercepted Pass

The Davidson reserves were beaten in a
game with Belmont Abbey last Friday by
a score of 7-0. This game was played while
the regular team was on its way to Dur-
ham to fight the Duke Blue Devils.

The Belmontoteam made their score on.

an intercepted pass in the first quarter. Doris,
captain of the team, intercepted this pass on
his own 40-yard line and ran 60 yards for
the touchdown. The extra point was scored
on a line buck by Rhodes.

For the rest of the gamt the play was
evenly matched, neither team being able to
make any headway. Only eight first downs
were made, of which two went to the ’Cat
reserves. :

The outstanding playing of the “AMl-
American” team was done by Peabody,
Creech, and Norfleet. The Abbey team’s best
men were Rodgers, Lentz, Doris, and Boyle.

Intramural Decathlon

Terrier Freshmen Play
Kittens in Spartanburg

Wofford Freshmen Defeated 18-13
in Close Battle Last Year

The Davidson Wildkittens will journey to
Spartanburg Friday to engage the Wofford
Freshmen in what is predicted to be a very
good football game. This will be the Kittens’
second game of the season and a great deal
of improvement is expected over their game
with Oak Ridge.

Nothing much is known about the Wof-
ford team, but it is a known fact that it is
tradition that they always puf™a team on
the field that can give an excellent account
of itself, and a hot game is expected.

Last year the Terriers brought a well-
trained team to Davidson and before the
Freshmen could get to clicking they had
scored two touchdowns and one extra point.
However, in the second half the Freshmen
woke up and scored three touchdowns to
win the game, 18-13.

Coach Laird stated that the team would
leave Davidson early Friday morning and
that about twenty-five men would make the
trip. As to the starting line-up, nothing is
known, It is the opinion of many that with
a few exceptions it will be the same as the
one that started the game against Oak Ridge.
The only major injury on the squad is
that of Reid Brown, who is out with a
broken ankle, but Coach Laird: has. several
men groomed for this position and while
Brown will be greatly missed, it is assured
that the man that gets this position will fill
it well.

Big Five Standings
Team Ww. L. Per.
University of N.C, --1 0 1.000
Duke University __.-- 1 0 1.000
Davidson ___-__-__-- 1 1 500
N.C. State -_-----.-:0 1 000
L Wake Forest __--...- 0 1 000

Class Teams Start
Basketball Practice

time, the line play for additional point In the hopes of getting started in class]  o¢ the game play in determining the pected in preseason dopings from
failed. To Be Held Next Month competition by November 1, .the Senior,| winner. On Turkey Day Davidson was now on. It may be an optimistic state-
The line-ups : ————s Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes} able to eke out a one-point win over (Continued on page 6)
Davidson Position Duke Prizes to be Awarded to High have begun regular basketball practice S¢S-|  @ superior team by a score on the .
rOutOh couch ducue LAs es ee Rosky Point Winner sions. Each group has been working out three first play from scrimmage and a :
Wiaineh sstcesc cs Uilivgesacss Davis (C) —— times a week, touchdown following a run that could p e
Brocks 2occes cess TGA Werner} An intramural decathlon is to be held} About fifteen boys have been unling Out Davidson Men Ar
Gardner ~------- G@enters22222 ie Adkins | carly in November, open to all Davidson|for practice for the Senior five, which IS} a good ‘team on the court before the first|
Pafketice see ia RiGee ese ee, Taylor | students. This meet will be an opportunity | being coached by Dean Rusk. Boots Wilson, game. Always Welcome
Raker goova steele RSD oe Soe Bryaa|for the demonstration of new talent, and|L. Smith, I’, Hoge, and Buster Shepard have Managers who have been helping in the
Brownies ss-ceces RAM esc ae. 7s Hyatt|frosh as well as upperclassmen are invited | been showing up well thus far and will prob- practices and who will assist in the games | At
Batley, (@)) 2e2se28 (0}) 5} par cee Multety| to-compete in this decathlon. A prize will|ably fill berths on the first five, Chris Cor-}. Dunklin, Morrow, Robinson, Morton, | :
Kihpe eo tj SC eee cee Brewer | be awarded to the winner, who will be chosen bettand James Caldwell also have been Guerrant, Lake, Bailey, Ruff, and Whitted. N O R T O N ? S
MéGallize tee 152 3 E egi cama Murray | for the greatest accumulation of points, Fol-| showing promise of making the team. Although a. schedule has not been made, |
McQueen -_--_---_ BiB iste ee Eshler | lowing are the requisites for qualification:| Although only seven or eight men have] ie was announced that each team will play |
Score by periods: LOOE ydi daspeosceoss cco aes 13. seconds | turned out for the Junior team, Coach Grier iy, games with every other team, the one | BARBER SHOP
Davidson 2 20 ees ss OF 0% 057 0-— 0/0007 yi cdash=222 22222 aie eae 40 seconds | Martin expects more to report for the next laying the highest percentage at the end
Duke sss soe se 0 0 © 12—12/880 yd, run__--2______- 2 minutes, 30 seconds | workout. In the two practices already held, |) cing the champions. leg
Scoring touchdowns: Brewer and Eshler. | Mile run_--------------_----___- 6 minutes | Montgomery, Patrick, Arnold, and McGehee Z
Substitutions: Davidson: Covington for |2 mile run_---------- 12 minutes, 15 seconds | loom as the best prospects for the Juniors.
Raker, Brohard for McQueen, Pierce ‘for | 120 yd. low hurdles-.-----------20 seconds| Due to the illness of Bill Goodson, their CLEARANCE SALE
Brock, Mathis for Parker, Mills for King,| High jump-------------------------- 4 feet coach, the Sophoniores as yet have not held Victor Brunswick and Columbia Records
Wagner for Covington, Mason for Gardner, | Shot put-------------------------.- 25 feet | workout, but hope to get started as soon ’ : 5 i] k e
Miller for Brown. Duke: Abbott for Eshler, | Broad jump------------------------ LSBIEep as hevrano vers: offered at Special Low Prices until stock 1s
Carpenter for Bryan, Hamrick for Adkins, Discus Eth eo 60 feet For the Freshman team, about fifteen men reduced.
Carpenter for Davis, Hayes for Hyatt, Short | Javelin’ ---------------------------- 75 feet | have reported to Coach Carl Pritchett. As
for Hayes. Pole Meat as SEes5 Oi | a asc 6 feet | vet there are no outstanding men out for 75¢c Records, 3 for $1.00
Scoring will be as follows: the team, but Coach Pritchett hopes to have te
In the running events, every fifth of a saad One Lot, 4 for $1.00
second under qualifying time will count one| in the jumping events one point is given. :
SUMMARY point. Every foot more than the required distance W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson vs. Duke For each inch over the necessary height | in the weight events will be worth one point. 3
‘ my)
D.C. Duke || £3 a
First: downs —------__-__-_-L 5S i
Yds. gained from
te anne Roe Printing and Engraving
poe ee eee The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in
Passes completed -_-_-------- 2} f 4 i
Yds. gained from passes. 19 13 oO the Two Carolinas
Av. Igth. of punts --------- 23.7 38.3 ; ote At Your Service
Yds. punts returned _-_-_---- 12. 15 Every Description
Av. Igth. of kickoffs ---_--- 50 51.6 ZORIC CLEANING
Yds. kickoffs returned --_--- 67 «38 J. A. CANNON by
Brey, aa 311 Watts DOMESTIC LAUNDRY
WiC gs oo ne 12. 6
Total yds gained from | BS
scrimmage, passes and
pC as Rabie Tak as STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Fumbles ames Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. Representatives é
Fumbles recovered ------__ er “Poon” Hancock 210 Watts “Dus” Enochs
Penalties =... -- 5225 40 «635 :
©
pe oa i

LOOKING

"EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

A determined Duke team which packed
a very powerful wallop in the shape of one
Kid Brewer and three other backs whose
attainments are not to be sneezed at, knocked
Davidson's unscored-on name clear out of
a handsome stadium, broke up a series of
three consecutive victories, and all but
smashed Wildcat hopes of a state champion-
ship.

To attain that goal now, the pupils
of Monk Younger must win from
both Carolina and Wake Forest, either
of which looms as quite a task the
way the two said opponents are look-
ing just now. And on top of that
somebody is going to beat somebody
else—just who we can’t say—to keep
things from being all tied up after
December 6. Nota prospect to make
smiles creep over the faces of the en-
tire Davidson student body.

There is no denying that Davidson fought
last Saturday. But it is asking too much of
a team to turn back thrust after thrust,
drive after drive, of the sort that Duke was
constantly threatening with. The Wildcats
fought off three attempts to score after the
Blue Devils had gained possession of the
hall within Davidson's 10-yard. stripe, and
the manner in which they held brought the
Presbyterians’ supporters to their feet. But
Brewer's final drive for the initial touchdown
was not to be denied, and he crossed David
son’s goal line for the first time this season.

But we could not reconcile ourselves to
that last score. It looked like all the breaks
in the world happened at once to make that
touchdown possible. The fumble would not

have been so bad had it) been recovered. |

Even the threat of ‘the score might. have
been turned back unless Davidson had been
penalized. But the fumble, recovery by Duke,
and then the penalty were all three too much
to fight against.
The Duke games of last Thanks-
giving and last Saturday are eloquent
example of the part which the breaks

not happen once in a million times

again. One of these—possibly both—

and certainly a number of fumbles

and intercepted passes by which Dav-

idson broke up Duke drives could be

classed as pure breaks, and aided the
| Wildcats in winning.

!

| At Durham it was slightly different. Duke
lwas better than Davidson—for the day at
east but not by as much better as was the
| team of last year, Yet breaks which went
jagainst the Wildcats when they meant scores
lfor Duke—blocked punts, fumbles, penalties,
jand intercepted the Blue
| Devils to win by two touchdowns. The
| breaks provide the thrills no matter how
i had they may go against one team or an-

passes—enabled

j other.
|

| Next Saturday will mark the half-way
mark in the present football campaign. The
important which the cham
pions are yet ‘to come, But in the Big live
race, a few very salient facts are becoming

games decide

evident. Carolina has not the team she was
expected to have. They still are a high-scor-
ing team, but lack a defense necessary for a
consistent winner. Nevertheless, they remain
the favorites. Duke rapidly
after a shaky start and is going to be-a
pushover fr no man's team along in No-
vember. They may then,
however, and lose out, State can't. win for
losing: and unless they change their habits

is developing

stumble before

they are very apt to wind up in the cellar.
Wake Forest is changing color from a dark
fhorse to what might be called a sorrel or

even a pray. They have the heaviest and
one of the most powerful lines in the state
and two or three backfield men who can
learry the mail. We look for them to win
|from State this afternoon,

As for Davidson, we believe -that
they got a bad game out of their
| system that was almost bound to
| come sooner or later, and that they
will come along nicely and as ex-

