4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION. RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
segiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEBEVi SEONG; ) ticvccducs succousacieadeiatese Editor-in-Chief
Ei GH SV M6CAUDiccescscssscstucuseeueteeiee Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
qe SBis BEAC Koa saiiosk 8 Sscudceewie Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ------Managing Editor
WwW. ¢ GIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN --.---Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETO Assignment Editor
' J. F. PRESTON.... ---Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ___- ---Feature Editor
Ri FB, JARRATI ee -Associate Editor
F. D, MILLERivc. 2. 2..2c ico. ---------Associate Editor
Cc. PRAT iced eves eel cies eee ye Associate Editor

qs Ay CANNON sa cece teenies ee Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Ty elas SBO YD seestas Gace ics pea ee Subscription Mgr.
AVIS OBARER cis iaaes ooo iacriee tos neem Solicitor
FAM ea CONWAY 255525 cen ar Saae crore ae Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON ---Solicitor
; ef fon -Solicitor
tL Sayre -Solicitor

-Solicitor

Ey Si HEERNER icreccccsh oi aes a President
etait ae Shs ab Sicenccsboiaskwiscscuscsbale Vice-President
}: M eon MSLON ec ctarscantaneee Secretary-Treasurer
8 ae J. G. DUNKLIDN
5 5 HEWS W. S. LEA

. G. MARTIN C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HANCOCK
Mt oO. STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROWN
te if DiCEa G. P. PARDINGTON
N (tt, DICKS MATTHEWS, W. H.
BIRD? ne Re DWELLE, E. C.

FEBRUARY 6, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Busy days ahead in the athletic realm. The fea-
ture event will be the clash o’ the court with
Duke’s “Finest.” Some test for Johnston’s Wild-
cat crew. Did you say they’d been through tough
assignments before? Right you are!

How about moving that game to Charlotte?
Hate to say it, but it looks like our best chance to
win went with the removal. There’s a different
brand of play when Davidson teams are at home.
Then too, the student body is losing out on that
deal. What support to lose! yo

Another chance tonight to hear that golden-
voiced organ in action. Make the opportunity good.

It'll be worth your time, and considerably more.

artistic, at least, than the screeches of the local
sound palace.

A brilliant speaker for “Y” ‘Sunday evening.
Preacher, prize-fighter, scientist, student’s: man—
that’s Doctor .Rimmer, You can’t afford to miss
him. And bring somebody along to help the cause.

e
In event of future snows, why not keep fights
away from Chambers Building? Pretty likely to
smash windows over there. Remember the numer-

als—(x marked the spot where ithey were found)
—33?

An appreciation of that fighting freshman team
Red Laird has turned out. Class is there, you know.
Maybe a championship—who knows? :

TAKE DAVIDSON WITH YOU

The inimitable Chico of “Seventh Heaven”
used to appeal to his world: “Always look
up; never look down.” The simple but beau-
tiful philosophy of good cheer expressed by
that optimist might be carried a little deeper
and viewed in the light of the finer consider-
ation to be seen with an upward glance.
Here at Davidson, for instance, we fall into
the habit of fixing our gaze and our hearts
upon the noble ideals of manhood and the
worthy traditions which are so vital a part
of the great old college, and we naturally
think of them as being on an exalted plane,
of being far above the average level of or-
dinary thinking and action. We guard these
spiritual entities jealously, and are quick to
refute any hint that they’are not real. .

Wherever Davidson men go, whatever
they do, let them remember that with them,
wrapped in their actions, goes the reputa-
tion of a college. One man can easily shatter
someone’s respect for that college. If he
looks down, the finer qualities fade from the
range of vision, and’old conceptions. or
habits are prone to creep in with their fre-
quenttendencies to corrupt. Keep worth-
while things in the foreground.

' Take Davidson with you when you leave
the campus. Remember that the responsibil-
ity for a glorious name and a living honor
rests on every person who partakes of the
colfege life which we know as the best.
Look up to the spirit which is Davidson.
Bear it cleanly in your-hands.

DEAD LIMBS

There is a tendency to look with’ pride
upon the organization of. the modern col-
lege, and to congratulate the student that
he is able to partake of a system with ap-
parent qualifications for the accomplish-
ment of a higher type of work, thereby en-
joying privileges and touching opportuni-
ties quite unknown to the Tom Brown or
earlier days. Particularly do college men and

‘COA

|
|

onlookers alike lay emphasis on and do |

honor to the honarary societies which oc-
cupy such an interesting field of undergrad-
uate activity. That these bodies are insti-
tuted to serve and instruct, and that it ac-
tually lies within their power to fulfill this
purpose, a few authorities deny. The fact is,
however, and it is becoming more evident
each year, that most colleges and universi-
ties are seriously over-stocked with hon-
orary fraternities which base their existence
on the significance of a few Greek letters,
and which make it their chief aim to initiate
a large number of men so as to replenish the
treasury of the order and to maintain a
respectable status in the ranks of other cam-
pus organizations.

The situation explained above has been a
growing problem at Davidson for several
years, and it is high time some concerted
action was taken to arouse the circles which
are dragging out, an inactive life. It is not

“our intention to condemn the entire group

of fraternities supposed to recognize
achievement in extra-curricular or scholas-
tic departments, for several of them are
realizing their possibilities fairly well, and
to these, which are well known by their
works, only praise is due. But the sleeping
majority, resting peacefully on their names,
should be reminded of the duty vested in
them, of the obligation to the college and
students. They are weakening the general
conception of the honorary fraternity: They
are thwarting its alleged purpose of in-
creasing knowledge and efficiency in the
respective fields of college endeavor and of
meeting the challenging tasks which ever
spring into reality as the growing college
advances with the spirit of the times.

Tach head of an honorary fraternity on
Davidson campus ought to take stock of his
group immediately, study the \ideals and
aims of his order, and launch it into a pro-
cess of rejtivenation. If the leader of each
circle does not assume the first responsibil-
ity, it is difficult to imagine who will supply
ings. If no business is worth considering,
then use the given period in a study of the
organization’s history, of its work in other
institutions, of its possbilties for, tangble
service here. If the views of the various clubs
were tapped and their product kept at work,
the result would surprise the most pessimis-
tic critic. Every phase of college: activitity
represented by an honorary fraternity
would receive new interest and more appre-
ciation, More capable writers for publica-
tions would be developed. Leaders would
really learn something of the work they are
supposed to direct.

In a small college there are difficulties
which will never be wholly overcome, the
principal oné at Davidson being that so
many hold membership in more honorary
organizations than they can honestly sup-
port with time and interest. Even this con-
dition, however, is no excuse for the number
of dead limbs which mar the tree of honor-
ary fraternity, If the problem should’ be
taken up seriously and considered earnestly
there is hardly a limit to the satisfaction
which could be obtained.

COMPLIMENTS RETURNED

It was an unusual snow in one respect.
For the first time in many winters the fresh-
men met the pelting on. the part of upper
classmen with determined resistance, and
the hitherto proud monarchs of dormitory
row were hard pressed to retain their pres-
tige. Pitched battle raged on several oc-
casions, with the honors more or less even,
superior leadership enabling older hands at
the business to eke out doubtful honors of
war in most cases.

After all was over, both forces seemed
very well satisfied, and the general feeling
was that the most spirited snow battles of
years had been experienced.

A trivial matter, perhaps—this snow
fighting—but it may signify that the old
days of non-resistance from freshmen are
past, and that a better element of sports-
manship between classes will be forthcom-

‘ing as a result of the mutual attitude of

give-and-take manifest last week. Fresh-
men. used to be subject to rather merciless
treatment during time of snow, and, while
little actual harm was done, the policy of
subjugation practiced by the upper men did
give rise to bad feeling as well as an injured
class pride. The usual challenge for a fight
on the freshman field was chalked up by en-

terprising sophomores, and a disorganized -

% By |
yy

:. 2wec. RAGIN

IW. MEGUTCHAN

J. Wilson McCutchan

Late Monday afternoon, William Howard Taft,
Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court,
tendered his'resignation. Although this action had
been expected in better-informed circles for some
time, yet it came as a distinct surprise to. many.
No comment, except that of praise, can be made
on Mr. Taft’s judicial term. Having completed a
popular regime as President, he quietly assumed
a position which, in many respects, requires the
utmost ability in tact, diplomacy, and dignity.
Taft was an ideally perfect Chief Magistrate, never
spectacular but always alert and energetic. We
cannot pass without the old story which claims
that he was the politest man in the country. It is
said that “he could arise and offer his place on the
divan totwo ladies, one being the popular limit.”

While discussing the Supreme Court and its
personnel, it is wise to give a thought to the ap-
pointment of Charles Evans Hughes, who has ac-
cepted the position, Hughes has many public
honors and long. terms of service to his creditable
record. It is recalled that he was narrowly de-
feated for the presidency, while running against
Woodrow Wilson, and that he has served as Sec-
retary of State. Although there are probably many
men qualified to fill the vacancy, Hughes is as
good as any Republican statesman on the horizon.
Let it be said here, however, that we always did
have a weakness for Dwight Morrow, and not be-
cause he is Lindy’s father-in-law, either.

It is heartening and encouraging to many’ fol-
lowers of current events to learn that one woman,
at least, has failed to win an “alienation of affec-

tion suit.” It has beén a hackneyed expression to |

say that “the woman pays and pays,” but since
Reno was played on the map, few men escape
“scot-free.” Many of our pre-historic ancestors
would turn over in their graves if they could see
the hen-pecked husbands of today; No doubt these
same ancestors’ grandsires maintained that the
generation was going to perdition and ruin, be-
cause their grandsons engaged in domestic quar-
rels and- conflicts. Moral codes and ethics change
with ‘centuries and climes, but the opinion of the

older generation for the younger remains about
the same. ©

This column does not want to overwork the
courts, but what. is to follow..is more for the de-
fense of the “press.” There have been noteworthy
examples in the past few weeks of editors and
newspapers who have been fined and damaged
by irate judges who have claimed that flagrant
contempts of their courts have been voiced. Justice
should and must be respected. However, freedom
of speech and of the press is one of the most
prized traditions of the United States. Our fore-
fathers fought for the right; we should have it!
From all available information, nothing untrue
was printed concerning the court procedures. In
England, all agitators, bolsheviki, and what-not
are referred to Hyde Park, where they may shout

‘“To Blazes With the King,” or what they please,

and those who do not want to listen do not have to.

All of which brings us to the question of KWKH,
Shreveport, Louisiana. We certainly do not wish
to congratulate Mr. Henderson on his choice of
words, which usually indicates a rather small
vocabulary. But, we care little what he says about
the chain stores, radios commission, or the price
of eggs in Wigwam. If he doesn’t like these sub-
jects, he has a right to his aversion, Maggie may
be able to keep Jiggs from going to another sta-
tion in life, but ‘we have seen few radios with fixed
dials. It appears like the lady, who forbade the
small boys to swim in the old swimming hole,
sans suits, because she took a horse-back ride
there every Thanksgiving afternoon. Nothing com-
pels the radio fan to listen to “Hello Wor-r-l-Id!”

bunch of new men had no chance of redeem-
ing or protecting themselves.

Let the game be open to both sides, with
a spirit of clean fun prevalent, and keep
down the idea that there’s any personal
grudge to be settled. Some fellows seem to
let that principle get the best of them. If
there’s going to be a real scrap, the freshmen
must resist; else a farce results, with the
upper classmen playing the leads.

There is a deadline, however, even in
snow fights. Somebody is sure to carry
things a little too far, and serious injury is
a like consequence. Blows i nthe face are
dangerous to eyes, to say nothing of the
chance of inflicting needless pain. We ought
to watch slips like that. And, although we
paid for damage to the dormitories in en-
trance fees, it would be much better to have
that sum returned than to see it all go fly-
ing away in bits of shattered window-pane.
Good sport, clean fun, excellent class ‘com-

petition if taken in moderation.
\

After floundering around in the snow for so
long, and incidentally losing a shoe and my um-
brella in the drifts, I feel more, or less blood-
thirsty, so here’s my effort at a story of the days
when pirates sailed the bounding main. The

bounders!

UNDER THE SKULL AND ‘CROSSBONES
You may be a skull to all the world, but you're
a bonehead to me.

For weeks, the pirate crew had sailed their ketch
“The Four Pound Trout” on the high seas without
sighting a single merchant vessel. The pirates be-
came restless, because all work and no prey makes
a dull pirate. However, there was little danger of
a mutiny, as all of the men lived in mortal terror
of their chief, “Peg-leg” Nubb. Accompanied by
his Scotch sergeant-at-arms, McTruck, Nubb tire-
lessly walked the deck and did his best to cheer up
his disgruntled crew.

As twilight fell, Nubb called his men around him
for their evening grog. “How will you take your
rum?” he asked of Hassan Ben Sober, his. As-
syrian look-out. “I'll take a rum with a bath, re-
plied Hassan hopefully. “Here’s a rum with a
board,” snarled Nubb, knocking Hassan in the
scuppers with a belaying pin. The Assyrian lay in
the scuppers and howled, “Scupper scoffee |! An-
other crack like that,” drawled Nubb with deadly
emphasis, “and you'll be like the egg in Ul ralela
astery—out of the frying pan into the friar.

Nubb and McTruck again began their monot-
onous pacing up and down the deck. Nubb pulled
out a pack of cork-tipped cigarettes, selected poe!
and offered one to his Scotch aide. “No thanks,
remarked McTruck, I never smoke cork-tipped
fags, because I hate ‘to smell cork burning.” At
this, Nubb fell and measured his length on the
deck. He measured five feet eleven inches and not
a yard over. McTruck immediately let out a wild
shriek, a loud guffaw, and the cat.

Nubb and McTruck then slouched over to the
rail—to talk. Nubb’ snorted, “That Hassan cer-
tainly is dumb. I asked him if he had read ‘The
Three Musketeers’ and he said that he didn’t like
books about insects.” “Gee,” replied McTruck,
“where can I get that book? I like books about
insects.”

Early the next morning, the pirates gathered on
the deck and prepared to spend the day as usual
in boredom, wherever that is. But lo and behold,
the look-out spied a speck on the horizon. “What
is it?” asked McTruck, as Nubb trained his tele-
scope on it. “Why, it’s a speck on the horizon,” re-
plied Nubb disgustedly. However, the speck turned
out to be a revenue cutter, so the crew all lined
up at the rail and watched them cut revenue.

The moment that the revenue cutter saw the
pirate ship, it.set out in pursuit. As the two ships
drew near each other, they opened fire, and a
battle royal ensued. The pirates might have been
victorious, but by an unlucky chance, pandemon-
ium broke loose on board the pirate craft and
knocked the men to the deck. Before they could
arise, the government men had boarded the ship
and tied them hand and foot.

They were carried to land, tried, and sentenced
to be hung. As they were lined up at the gollows,
the executioner asked if they had any last re-
quest to make. “Hang us in chains,” begged Nubb,
“It looks like rain. I always put on chains at the
first drop.”

Listen, Artaxerxes, if you don’t stop playing
train, Papa’s gonna wreck your train.

“Whither away, stranger? And what do you
want?” asked St. Peter as he leaned over the
yearly gates.

“Gosh, let me in,” pleaded the wandering soul
of convict 9986, just released from the electric
chair, “I just had the shock of my life.”

Minister : ‘See how the bride is blushing.”
Bridegroom: “Blushing nothing! That is the first
flush of victory.”

Therefore, why all the commotion? Personally, we
have heard much better programs from other
cities.

Examinations are over! We imagine most of our
readers have discovered this, including our neigh-
boring columnist. But faint not, Iphegenia, more
will come! Meanwhile, there are a few daily reci-
tations ahead. The basketball team has struck its
stride, and anyone who can possibly be in Char-
lotte Monday night, and isn’t . . . well, we have
our opinion! :

It may be painful, but recreation can be turned
to thoughtful advantages. Those who saw “Mexa-
cali Rose” may have seen a subtle philosophy.
There was more there than the mere plot! Think
it over! |
