COLLEGE
RE-OPENS
APRIL SECOND

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

BASEBALL TEAM
ON STATE TRIP

Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 27, 1930

No. 23

Dr. Wm. M. Anderson of
Dallas Is Scheduled To

Conduct Services Here

Pastor of Largest Presbyterian
Church in South Will Be Here
April 13, 14, and 15

IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED

Noted Preacher is Particularly
Adept in Young People’s
Work

According to a recent announcement of
the Young Men’s Christian Association, one
of the South’s leading ministers will conduct
the semi-annual evangelistic services which
will be held here the middle of April. Dr.
William M. Anderson has been procured to
lead these services through the courteous
aid of Prof. Lewis B. Schenck, the First
Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, and of
Doctor Anderson’s own session.

Dr. “Bill” Anderson, as he is familiarly
known, is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Dallas, Texas, which has the dis-
tinction of being the largest Presbyterian
Church in the whole South. Before becoming
pastor of the church he was for many years
assistant pastor to his father. In spite of the
fact that Doctor Anderson is possibly’ the
most sought man in the southern church
he has accepted the call to come to Davidson
because of the reputation of the school and
the stamp of the Davidson men with whom
he has come in contact.

Doctor Anderson will begin his series of
talks with the “Y”’ Vesper Service Sunday
evening, April 13, and will speak on Monday
and Tuesday, the 14 and 15. He will then
go to Chicago where he is to deliver a series
of lectures in the Moody Bible Institute.

He is peculiarly fitted for the spring series
at Davidson since he is especially adapted to,
and adept in, young people’s work. Many
Davidson men heard him while he was in
Montreat during the past summer and have
generally avowed that he has a charming
personality and that he delivers vital and
inspiring messages. Every Sunday. at 7:30
Doctor Anderson speaks over station UTAA
to his Bible Class, which holds the record

(Continued on page 6)

2 Vesper Service Led
By Cabinet Members

Brown and Long Speak on Service
Theme

Last Sunday evening the “Y” vesper serv-
ice was strictly a student body affair. R. T.
Nunan read the scripture, J. C. Lawrence
led in prayer, and the “Durham Duplex
Quartet” rendered several hymns. The main
features of the program were two very in-
spiring talks by Zeb Long, editor. of The
Davidsonian, and Frank Brown, president
of the “Y. M. C. A.,” on “Service.”

Zeb Long took as the topic of his talk,
“Service for Others,’ and his text was,
“Such as I have, give I thee.” “The world
is not interested in what you have not and
what you cannot do,” he said. “The world
is looking for a positive answer. What can
you do? The well remembered saying of
Christ when He saw the widow put in her
mite, ‘She hath done what she could,’ con-
sumates a successful life. ~

“This is a world which service builds.
Each year the school children all over
Franch vote for whom they consider the
greatest Frenchman. For years Napoleon’s
name headed the list with a large majority
but recently the name of Louis Pasteur, the
man whose life was, given to the saving of
life rather than the destroying of it leads
them all. People all over the world are real-
izing that the man who leads a life of service
to others is the man who can consider his
own life a success.

“But where shall we serve? This is a
question that each man must answer for
himself. The field of service is the place
where the need is* the greatest. A father
out hunting in the woods one day captured
a little eagle and brought it home for his
children to play with. To their surprise when
they turned it loose in the barnward instead

(Continued on Page 5)

Canadian Lecturer

Sir Herbert Brown Ames, who will speak
to student body April 6

I.R.C. To Bring Sir
Herbert Ames Here

Sir Herbert Brown Ames, Kt. LL.D., a
native of Canada, although at present living
in the United States, will appear at David-
son on April 8 under the auspices of the
International Relations Club, On the: morn-
ing of that date he will lecture to the classes
in History; in the afternoon he will lead a
round table discussion with the International
Relations Club; at eight o'clock in the even-
ing he will deliver his lecture, “The Chang-
ing Times of, Europe, 1919-1929,” to the
student body.

Sir Herbert speaks from first-hand know-
ledge of the conditions in Europe as he has
viewed them during his international .con-
nections, For eight years he was a member of
the Montreal City Council. Then from 1904
to 1920, a continuous period of seventeen
years, he represented his native city, Mon-
treal, in the Dominion Parliament. He was
Chairman of the “Select Stariding Committee
on Banking and Commerce,” for nine years.
During the World War he was Honorary

(Continued on Page 5)

Davidson Athletes Win
Places In Indoor Meet
Held at West Virginia

Whittle Barely Loses Lead to Na-
tional Low Hurdles Champion—
Brohard Places in Half Mile
Event

Four Davidson track stars invaded north-
ern territory last Saturday and competed
remarkably well against many foremost
college athletes when they were entered in
the second annual indoor track meet of West
Virginia University at Morgantown, in
which nearly three hundred track men from
universities, colleges, prep school and high
schools participated.

Heath Whittle, Wildcat track captain,
placed second in the finals of. the 70-yard
low hurdles, which was won by Sol Furth,
of New York University, holder of the
world’s record for this event, in the fast
time, 8 1-5 seconds, one-fifth of a second
short of the record. Whittle followed Furth
so closely that some of the judges at the
finish line considered it a tie. However, it
was decided that the world’s champion
hurdler had .agslight edge over the Southern
star.

Several outstanding hurdlers were favored
above Whittle who was considered a “dark
horse,” including Calloway of W. Va. U.,
Knoblock and Bowen of Pittsburgh and
McDowell of Penn State, but the Wildcat
leader eliminated all of them either in the
preliminaries or in the semi-finals. Whittle
equalled the Field House record with com-
parative ease in the preliminaries, slowing
down at ‘the last hurdle to “save himself,”
however running the fastest heat of the day
with the exception of the final one. He re-
ceived a beautiful silver medal.

This is the first time Whittle has ever run
in the 70-yard low hurdfes, and was at a
disadvantage in the fact that he traveled the
600 miles to the meet in}an automobile. It
is also known that the trabk captain has not
the opportunity to practicd on indoor tracks
in inclement weather. However Further is a

(Continued on P%

Dr. S. N. Hutchinson To Deliver

Annual Baccalaureate Sermon

Prominent Pittsburgh Pastor is
Graduate of Lafayette and Son
of Davidson Alumnus

Rev. Stuart Nye Hutchison, D.D., pastor
of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church at
Pittsburgh, Pa., has accepted an invitation
to deliver the baccalaureate sermon to the
1930 graduating class on June 1, according
to an announcement made by Dr. Walter L.
Lingle. »

The baccalaureate speaker is a graduate
of Lafayette College, where he obtained both
his A.B. and M.A. degrees. He was prepared
for the ministry at Princeton Theological
Seminary. Hampden-Sidney conferred the
doctor of divinity degree upon him in 1916.
Doctor Hutchison has held pastorates in
New Jersey and Ohio, and before he went
to Pittsburgh in 1921 he had been pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church at Norfolk,
Va., for 11 years. He is the author of several
books” of short “sermons, written especially
for children.

While Doctor Hutchison is not an alumnus
of Davidson, a close relationship has always
existed between him and this institution be-
cause his father, Sylvanus Nye Hutchison,
graduated in the class of 1845, which was one
of the earliest graduating classes of the col-
lege. Doctor Hutchison’s uncle, Ebenezer
Nye Hutchison, also graduated from David-
son the same year. Another graduate of the
1845 class was Moses Lingle, an uncle of
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, and of Dr. Thomas
W. Lingle, who is a member of the faculty.

Doctor ‘Lingle, who has spoken in the
pulpit of the East Liberty Presbyterian
Church in Pittsburg on several occasions,
has visited Doctor Hutchison in his study,
and tells of an original copy of the Davidson
commencement program of 1845. The pro-
gram gives the names of the graduates, is
framed and is hanging on the wall.

J. G. Bucher Speaks
OnModern Germany

Last Friday night, a large audience of
students and townspeople enjoyed the inter-
esting lecture of Mr. John G. Bucher on
“Modern Germany.” Mr, Bucher was
brought here under the auspices of the Facul-
ty Committee on Lectures and the German
Department, headed by Dr. Guy Vowles.

In beginning Mr. Bucher stated that the
real object of his lecture was to remove the
great misunderstanding and _ hatred that
swept over Europe and America after the
late war; since complete understanding
would do much to prevent future wars.

Mr. Bucher then answered a few questions
which people often ask of him. The first was
in regard to traveling conditions in Germany.
Their railways are the best and largest of
our modern age with such conveniences as
radio telephones enabling one to talk with
any section of Germany while en route.

The American is welcomed in Germany
if he conducts himself as a gentleman. The
Americans and their affairs have more space
in German newspapers than any other for-
eign people.

The German Republic is in fine shape and
is rapidly improving under the leadership of
the once hated Von Hindenburg, idol of the
German people. The Germans are anxious
for peace and quiet as seen in, their books
published now after a ten year ban on all
war books. The chief of these being “IAM's
Quiet on The Western Front.”

The second half of the lecture was devoted
to slides. These slides were up-to-date, hav-
ing been taken last summer. The beautiful
old castles were in striking contrast with the
1iumerous bpildings of ultra modern style.

(Continued on page 6)

Well Known Alumnus

Frank Price, Christian Worker in China,
who visits “campus

Frank W. Price Will
Speak Here April 6

Sunday, April 6, Frank W. Price is to
speak at “Y” Vespers. A Davidson graduate,
he has done many things of which Davidson
should be proud. While here he made an
enviable record, having averaged 97.56 and
also having been founder and first editor-in-
chief of the “Davidsonian,” editor of the
Annual, business manager of the college mag-
azine, president of the “Y,” president of the
Volunteer Group, vice-president of his class,
an intercollegiate debater, and president of
the North Carolina Volunteer Union.

After leaving Davidson, he served a three-
year term in China, gaining entrance into the
government school, hitherto closed to Chris-
tian effort. When he returned to America in
1918, he was sent to France for Y. M. C. A,
work among Chinese laborers, During the
three years following the war, while taking
his B.D. at Yale and his M.A, at Columbia,
he acted as secretary of the Chinese Students’
Association.

In 1923 he again sail for China where he
remained until the recent trouble when many
missionaries were driven out of China. He
returned and is now at Yale taking graduate
work. He might well be called an educator,
having served as a professor in Nanking
Theological Seminary, Nanking University,
and Hangchow College. When he reached
China, the great revolution, which we have
heard so much about in the past few years,
was in progress. He was always in the thick

(Continued on Page 5)

Grey Brothers Present
New Museum with Gift

Varied Collection of Articles Form
First Contribution to New
Museum

Davidson officials have just recently been
notified that they would soon be in possession
of a very rare collection of arrow-heads, old
and remains from the ancient cliff
dwellers in Kentucky, which will be pre-
sented by Rev. Fredrick W. Grey, and his
brother, Mr. Paul M. Grey, both of Marlin-
ton, West, Virginia.

This interesting and valuable collection
will be the first group of articles to be in-
stalled in the Geological Museum of Nat-
ural History in Chambers Building, and will
be viewed with particular interest by students
in Geology, Biology, etc., as well as curious
onlookers. The collection consists of: First,
8,500 arrow .heads, second, axes ‘and anti-
facts, and third, materials from the cliff
dwellers in Kentucky, including a rare ar-
row-maker‘s awl. Most of the arrow heads
were taken from the present site of the Char-
lotte waterworks.

Although perhaps none of the present
Davidson students can recall it, most of the
Dayidson professors will remember the old
museum which was demolished in the fire
which destroyed Old Chambers in 1921. But
now since the new museum has been launch-
ed, conditions point to the future develop-
ment of a museum in proportion and size to
which Davidson is justly entitled.

axes,

Students Choose Rusk
President of Y.M.C.A.
On Second Ballot Cast

New Leader Selected from Field of
Four Men Nominated—Installa-
tion Expected at Early Date

NORFLEET IS SELECTED

Final Vote on Secretary-Treasyrer
Terminates Student Government

Balloting
Dean Rusk was elected President of the
Y. M. C, A., in the final vote taken Friday,

March 21, and on Saturday R. F. Norton
was clected as one of the Vice-presidents.
C. M. Norfleet secretary and
treasurer of the student body, Wednesday,
March 19, -

The “Y” elections started Tuesday morn-
ing, conducted by the President; Frank R.
Brown. The Y. M. C. A. cabinet, which
as the nominating committee, pre-
sented the names of the following men for
President: J. A. Jones, J. F, Preston, A. B.
McClure, and Dean Rusk. The men nomi-
nated from the floor were C. H. Burch, H.
B. Covington, and W. W, Fraley.

On the first vote taken Thursday morning,
all thescandidates except Jones and Rusk
were eliminated.” Rusk was elected onthe

was elected

serves

second ballot taken “friday morning.

The president-elect, who is from Atlanta,
Ga., has been out-standing in athletic, reli-
gious, and_ scholastic
Freshman

activities since his
He was president of the
Freshman class and a member of the Beaver

Club. He belongs to the “D"” club, having

year.

played varsity basketball for two years. He
is an honor student and is a member of
several honorary fraternities. During the
year that is just closing, he served as a vice-
president of the “Y.” Rusk is a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He will be
installed some time during the next three
or four weeks.

The

Tuesday,

election for vice-presidents started
with the nominating committee
submitting the following men as candidates ;
C. W. Arnold, R. P. Enloe, D.,S. King, R.
I, Norton, Wm, Rule, and N. G. Speir. S.
S. Wiley was nominated from the floor. On
the first ballot, Rule and Wiley were elimi-
nated. On the second ballot; held Saturday,
March 22, R. I*. Norton was elected as one
of the two vice-president, and none of the
remaining four were eliminated. It is inter-
esting to note that the number of votes re-
by these four men, Arnold, Enloe,
King, and Speir, did not vary more than
twenty-eight.

Bob Norton is from Rome, Ga., and has
(Continued on Page 5)

Goodson Chosen As
New Quint Captain

ceived

Hancock Selected as Varsity Man-
ager—Berry to Have Charge of
Freshmen

At a recent meeting of the members of
the basketball team, coaches, and manager,
W. Lincolnton, N. C., was
elected to captain the 1931 W. B.
Hancock as varsity manager,
and J. G. Berry as freshman manager.

W. B. (“Sleepy”) held down
the position of guard on the court this sea-
son and is finishing his second year as second
baseman on the baseball team. “Sleepy” was
of the basketball
year in Besides
member of the Student
Council and Vice-president of the Athletic
Association. is a member of Phi
Delta Theta, social fraternity.

W. B. Hancock, of Bluefield, W. Va., is
a member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity.

J. G. Berry, of Griffin, Ga., is a member
of the Glee Club, Reporters Club, Eumanean
Literary Society, and of Theta Upsilon
Omega, social fraternity.

These managers were elected over P. R.
Alderman, Jr.

The following Sophomores were chosen as
Junior managers for next year: J. G. Dunk-
lin, R. K. Morton, J. E. Ruff, and, P. T.
Shanks.

B. Goodson, of
team,
was chosen

Goodson

captain frosh

first

likewise

quintet his school.

athletics, he is a

Goodson
