THE_DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

New University Founded
With No Student Rules

New Institute Founded With
$5,000,000 Endowment Fund

New York—(IP)—A university without
rules for its students, lacking impressive
looking buildings, and with its entire work
centered about a small but distinguished fac-
ulty, is to be established here.

It is the Institute of Advanced Study,
_made possible by a gift of $5,000,000 en.
dowment made last June by Louis Bam-
berger and his sister, Mrs. Felix Fuld.

The aims of the new university, which will
bear many of the aspects of the original
university of the Middle Ages in its form
of organizaiton, was outlined here by Dr,
Abraham Flexner, director of the new in-
stitution, who gave four general principles
on which it will be,, established.

“The first of these,” he said, “is that
there shall be no intrusion’ of those collegiate
ideas and practices that are necessary in a
college but hampering in a university, I
mean by that that we shall have no room
or time for athletics or extra-curricular ac-
tivities, and no attempt will be made at
paternalistic control of the student body,

“Secondly, we will make no attempt at
great size. Quality will be the first concern.
For example, if we can find no first-rate
teacher of mathematics we will have no
course in mathematics.

“The faculty will co-operate in the man-
agement of the institute and have places’ on
the hoard of trustees.

“We hope that the remuneration of our
faculty members will be more fully com-
mensurate with the importance of the posi-
tions.

“Although these principles,.in many ways,
are the expression of a break from tradi-

Books We Have Read |

Intercollegiate News

“Andrew Jackson, An Epic in
Homespun”

By Gerald W. Johnson

It must be confessed that the reviewer
approached this book as a dilettante, seeking
the quaint and colorful. In this mood one
likes the unusual, seeks the bizarre. It is
generally necessary to gratify such a feeling
by turning to the legendary and giving the
imagination reign in fancy. The desultory
follower of the sensational, then, is not far
off the track when he takes up the life of
Andrew Jackson. Here is a man, not of

was legend while he still lived.

Gerald W. Johnson, Jackson's biographer,
gives in this book a portrait of the person
which is in reality a panorama of a charac-
ter of whom a still picture would convey to
the reader as little idea of the real man as
a snapshot of a bird in flight. Jackson was
a-restless, stirring person, the embodiment
of a spirit, and we can gain an appreciation
of that spirit only as we see it move and act
from one end of our nation’s frontier to the
other,

A man to be great must be consistent,
Jackson’s consistency lay in his yery incon-
sistency. His enemies were sure of but one
thing, that he would gain the end he set
before him, no matter what the means should
be. There was in the entire length of his
life not one thing to which he set his hand
that was not accomplished. A man such as
that represents the incarnation of a quality
which will rise to power, regardless of the
odds of time or place. The detail of events
which lay along his pathway to greatness is
secondary and non-essential.

fancy, but decidedly of flesh and blood, who |

Jackson, for all his faults—he had many—
appealed essentially to the people of his time

tion, we intend to imply no criticism of other
universities.

“We can hope to do what I have described
only because we are starting new and are
not bound by tradition. Most of the post-
graduate schools in this country were built
on colleges. We have the advantage in that
we are starting fresh and free. This freedom
may result in mnay mistakes which the older
universities have escaped. But that is part
of freedom,

“So far as other universities are concerned
this is in every way a friendly effort.”

Prehistoric Eneravings

Found by Chas. Dawes

Excavations in Spain Are Made by
American Ambassador to England

New Haven, Conn.—(IP)—The story of ,

the trip made to prehistoric regions in. Eu-
rope during the past summer by General
Charles G. Dawes, Ambassador to England,
is related in detail by Prof. George G. Mac-
Curdy, of Yale University, in announcing
the discovery of two prehistoric engravings

because he was human. His humanity was |
veneered, however, with the theatrical blaze |
of his yitriolic temper, the defense mechan-
ism of a sensitive nature reared to command |
a place in a hostile world. To his friends |
he was known by his fruits; to his enemies. |
!by the threats he made to anyone who should |
leross his will. Jackson had a false front, |
which to the confounding of his adversaries |
was backed up by the man behind it when |
occasion demanded.

Jackson's bravado was fundamentally un-
true to his real nature. The sum of all his |
deeds is,-as Johnson epitomizes, character- |
ized by “courage, sentiment, vigor, and reso- |
lution—sometimes exaggerated into swash- |
buckling, sentimentality, presumption, and |
obstinacy.” Jackson lived his life with more
than the average intensity. His passionate
earnestness and directness earned for him
the respect of a people “who found it easier |
to forgive iniquity which they understood, |
than subtlety which might mean anything.” |

The power of a character such as Jack- |
son’s is marked by its starkness. From his |
birth nearly every event which influenced |

|

his life accentuated this harshness, and made
him stand out in bold relief from a back- |
The engravings date from the Madgelenian | ground of frontier life, itself elemental in
epoch of at least 20,000 years ago, accord- |coloring. Jackson’s life in other time or place
ing to Professor MacCurdy, who is director perhaps would have been shaded and softened
of the American School of Prehistoric Re- linto more delicate halftones, but on the Ten-
search and also research associate in pre- | nessee frontier, life retained its strong col-
historic archeology at Yale University. ors, and Jackson's character was intensified |
In describing the trip, Professor Mac-|into the primary hues. Jackson was a man
Curdy says: “General Dawes asked me, on | Who lowered his head and charged into his
the occasion of his visit to America last foes. He was explosive, heavy-handed, cut- |
June, if I could not take him with me on a ting and slashing his way to power, but he |
prehistoric pilgrimage in France and Spain. ;was a man who had a code and lived up)
“Together we studied in museums and in | to it.
the field, digging also: in caves and fede | Gerald W. Johnson is a North Carolinian
shelters both in France and in Spain. lby birth. He is a journalist, having done
“We had been fortunate,-too, for in caves |Newspaper work for nineteen years, and it is
of El Pendo, in Northern Spain, where we Said that he worked for a time on news-
dug as guests of the Abbe Carballo, we | Papers in Thomasville and Greensboro, after
found two important engravings on hone.” |Wwhich he was professor at the University
Four of the sections of thick paletolithic of North Carolina. He is now on the edi- |
deposits and their contents, Professor Mac- ltorial staff of the Baltimore Sun. Johnson |
Curdy relates, which were seen by the expe- | has proved himself to be a gifted pournalist
dition, if superimposed so as to form a and, moreover, a brilliant biographical writ-
chronological sequence, would result in a er In “An Epic in Homespun,” he is the
composite section including every epoch of
the stone age and covering a period con-| studied prehistoric copper and flint mining
servatively estimated at a half-million years. | evidences in Nibela, where impressive piles
The Dawes-MacCurdy expedition also | of prehistoric slag are to be found.

on bone excavated in Spain by the ambassa-
dor and others of the expedition.

——_/

STATIONERY MAGAZINES

STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS
FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES

NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON

New York—(IP)—The world-wide in-
terest which is now being evoked by the
twentieth centenary of Vergil’s birth, ac-
cording to President George Norlin of the
University of Colorado, “is in itself a testi-
mony that no poet has had so firm a hold for
so long a time upon the minds and hearts of
cultivated men.”

Dr. Norlin makes this statement in an ar-
ticle, “Twenty Centuries of Vergil,” in the
October issue of The Bookman.

President Norlin agrees with Voltaire that
|if Homer was the creator of Vergil, as many
educators comment, then, surely, Vergil was
| Homer's. greatest masterpiece.

| London, Eng —(IP)—Dr. G. W. James,
who has been diagnosing fatal illnesses of
kings of England, has made the discovery
that Charles the Bold died of an ingrowing
toe nail which infected his foot. Histories
thus far have revealed only that Charles
died in 1477.

Dr. James also has found that Kings
Stephen, John, Henry V and Edward I died
of typhoid. Mary I, he declares, was a vic-
tim of the “flue.”

New York—(1TP)—A new course in air-
|plane desigh is now being offered by New
York University, the first to be given by any
college or university in the United States.
| The course, introduced into the curriculum
‘of the Daniel Guggenheim School of Aero-
nautics at the university, is attracting uni- |
i versal attention.

Fundamentals of airship design and opera-

Week-End Freedom

Receives Attention

New York—(IP)—Freeing of students
of campus rules on week-ends is favored in
an editorial appearing in Liberty Magazine
for November 15.

“We get more out of life,” the editorial
says in part, “during any period of it, when
we live in accordance with our own will.
It is fair to assume that a young man at
college wants the education the college of-
fers, and this will be chiefly book education.
But, having obtained that for which he went
to college, won’t the enlargement of his |
horizon be greater if he decides for himself |
what he shall ‘do with his week-ends than if
he is-forced to sit on a fence or look (not
play) at a foothall game? ...

“—. We think it wouid be better for col-
lege boys generally to be away from the
campus more than they usually are—always
assuming that they keep up in their studies,
and that those who don’t will be dropped
from classes.”

DAVIDSON STOPPED -

(Continued from page 1)

ed whenever they threatened seriously to
score. Finding going rough through the
heavy Deacon line, the Wildcats resorted
to the air, However, an alert Wake Forest
backfield that: had learned its lesson against
Duke the previous Saturday, were able to
knock down 22. 6f the 28 passes attempted.

It was through the air, however, that the
Baptists were able .to. return’ home with a
victory to their credit. Early in the second

tion, including the theory of lighter-than-

period with the ball resting on the Wake |

air aero structures, is being covered in an-/| Forest 41-yard line, Benton stepped back

other new course in the school.
Springfield, Ohio—(1P)—That George
Gipp, Notre Dame halfback in 1919, was the

greatest football player ever produced at

| Notre Dame, andthe best the country has

ever seen with the possible exception of Jim
Thorpe, the statement hy
Rockne, Notre Dame coach, ‘in an article,
“Gipp the Great,” in the November 22 issue
of Collier's.

is made

Gipp, who died in 1920, just before he

;was made an All-American halfback, was |

discovered by Rockne on the Freshman

| team. He was not interested in football when | scrimmage of the day, breaking away through

he came to college.

Princeton, N. J.—(1P)—The college bands
of Yale and Princeton appeared together
and played together for the first time in foot-
hall history here at the Yale-Princeton game
this year.

Not since Yale and Princeton began play-
ing football in 1873 has such an event taken
place before.

The two bands lined up, Yale’s forming
a “P” and Princeton’s forming a “Y,” and
joined in playing Yale and Princeton songs.

Today we are in the midst of a third: pe-
riod in women’s higher education. The right
of women to a higher education and their
ability to profit by it having been proved,
we are now free to experiment. We can at-
tempt to adapt the _¢trriculum to special in-

a |
terests of women, where, or as far as such

exist. Women as human beings with inter-
ests identical with men’s, women as women,
possibly with different needs—the two can
well be considered side‘ hy side —Dr. Kath-
erine Blunt. President of Connecticut Col-
lege for Women.

Our duty is to elect, not select.—Simeon
D. Fess.

unbiased biographer, scrupulously presenting
his subject untinged by the, usual aura of
hero-worship.

The style of the book is intimate, yet the
importance of the subject is undamaged in
the reader’s mind. “Andrew Jackson” would

be worth reading, if for nothing more than |

the well-turned phrases of the biographer
and the facets of his agile pen. The book
contains the essentials which will make it
engaging to any reader—inherent human in-
terest and unimpeachable style.

S. S. Wiley.

land. shot a perfect pass to Mills, who took
it dn the dead run and eluded all Wildeat
tacklers to cross the goal line standing up.
| Quillan's drop-kick for the extra point was
'eood. Again in the third period the Bap-
ltists used the air route to good advantage.

‘Students Not Prepared

Properly for Politics

American Education is Inefficient in
Preparing aa for Political
Life

Portland, Ore—(1IP)—American educa-
tion is inefficient in preparing the student
for participation in political life, according
to Dr. Edward O. Sisson, head of the De-
partment of Education and Philosophy at
Reed College, who is now engaged in a lec-
ture tour throughout the East.

In his address, “A Blind Spot in Ameri-
can Education,” Dr. Sisson declares that the
trend of education is away from politics.
More students are studying ancient history
than American history, he holds, and more

‘are entered in Latin classes than in civics

classes.

Even the civics which is being taught in
the high schools, he declares, and the cor-
responding political science courses in the
colleges, are of such a technical and academic
nature as to prepare the student poorly for
a political career.

The really dangerous citizen, according to
Dr. Sisson, is not the thug, the criminal,
nor the corrupter of politicians, but the
apathetic, indifferent citizen who, by his in-
difference to politics, throws the control of
American political life to the criminal ele-
ment.

Less than half the qualified voters of the
country, he says, turn out for elections, and
the whole nation’s political policy is con-
trolled by a vicious minority.

“Chicago,” Dr. Sisson states, “is an ex-
ample of the failure of education to prepare
the average student to take part in his own
government.”

New Religions Sect
Founded in Hungary

Mme. Fuelop, Founder, Bases New

Knute |

| Gregson picked up a fumbled Davidson» punt
on the Davidson 14-yard line. After three |
| running plays had netted but two yards, |
| Bradley shot a nice pass to Brogden, who
|had slipped unnoticed over to the sidelines.

Sect on Laughing and Singing

Budapest—(TP)—A religious sect
| founded by a Hungarian widow here is based
on a creed which can be freely~translated

new

| Quillan’s kick for the extra point was/in English best by the phrase, “Laugh and
| blocked. ithe world laughs with you.”

| ~ | Mme. Fuelop, the founder of the new re-
| Don King made the longest run. from I

ligion, declares that “purification of the soul
is possible by merriment alone.”

She claims Biblical authority for her new
‘gospel, declaring that Jesus never ordered

{the line on a fake pass for a beautiful 55- |

|

yard run, being downed on the Wake Forest
30-vard line. The run went for naught when ;
; Wild f dis stoas the Hall }mankind to be mournful.

. ats were 0 piv yall up | eo
TABU eT een EH Misiialon Pi She gathers her disciples about her every
on downs. The ball was in Wake Forest ter- | i eter tanga t!
ritory for the most part of the game and sev- | evening, and together’ they dance ue
pbebe ate eee : : ; of salvation, laughing, singing, and

; Bi : eg, | name
eral times Wake Forest was forced to a ie Hine to timer ekineathe Bible

from their goal line or behind. It was one), eee: : lie
of these kicks that Gardner, sterling Wild- The police are watching the ne ve age put
: ; ' k f D Huantac two [o, far have found no grounds for interfering
ot Seta aN a edie sons WO | with their form of worship:
points. The Davidson team threatened the |
Deacon goal five or six times, but each time |
“hargt 1" Y . f Hel ° °
ue ae fee a of the Deacons | lectual leaders and continue to live here.—
sept the Wildcats scoreless. Te ‘
x F ames W. Gerard.
The hitter cold afternoon was filled with |* :
: |
the sterling play of both teams, but two)

in

I would hate to compile a list of intel-

|nlays before they were well
The whole Davidson team was playing good, |
hard football, but of the lot, Brown, Brock, |

ing. The two opposing centers, Gardner of |
| Davidson, and Parker of Wake Forest, |
‘turned in beautiful performances. |
| The following eight men closed their foot- |
ihall careers at Davidson by seeing strenuous
|service in the Wake Forest game. They
were: Captain Fraley, ex-Captain Brock,
Brohard, Covington, Mason, McCall, Park-
ler, and Proctor. Five of these men saw |
‘service in the line, while three were in the

backfield.

PROF. E. J. ERWIN

|
|
|
|
: |
(Continued from nage 1) |
| East Carolina Teachers’ College, who was |
unable to be at the meeting in person. The |

ment on Friday.
“The success or failure of any English |
teacher in the high school department,” he |

For Catalogue and

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA |

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

IS

The oldest and Jargest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.

|
|
|
|

information, address

—————

——

Baptist ends, Gregson and Brogden, deserve |

especial mention. These two men were in| ; ; ;
every play and frequently spoiled Wildcat |the methods in the presentation, not entirely
: 5 ait Crean |upon his ability, but almost altogether upon

and Covington, all linemen, were outstand- |

paper was read before the English Depart-| ~

wrote, “depends not primarily upon his
knowledge of the subject, not wholly upon

that indefinable, but easily recognizable
something which we call personality.”

He defined this attribute as including such
characteristics as neatness, courtesy, affabil-
ity, poise, sympathy, optimism, faith in
others, the ability to bring out the best in
one’s associates, and numbers of other quali-
ies,

A Temporary Home

must be
rented after
the fire
Ousts you
fromthe
house you
N@ own and
| live in.

That means
paying rent elsewhere—added ex- '
pense. ‘If you have Rental Value
protection the insurance company
will provide the money to rent a
temporary home of equal rental
value, relieving you of that un-
looked-for expense and leaving
ALL your FIRE insurance money
to repair or rebuild.

Rental Value protection costs
on the average a great deal less
than fire insurance, its Siamese
Twin.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson (‘13), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)
