THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

After Graduation --- Me

~

dici

ne?

Surgeon Advises Liberal Education
_ For All Before Choosing Vocation

———-
Dr. Hubert A. Royster Urges Stu-
dents Not to Rush Into Choice of

Surgery we

The letter inviting me to present to the
students of Davidson College some re-
marks on surgery as a profession contain-
ed the following suggestion: “You will be
doing a great service to the many fine
boys here who are still ‘in the dark’ as to
“their life work.” Congratulations are due
these boys, and also the College. Choosing
one’s “life work” too early is responsible
for many of the misfits in the world to-
day. I have never had much sympathy
for so-called “vocational education,” but
I do believe heartily in education for a
vocation. First, let us become educated,
then we can think about a vocation. A
well rounded education in the arts and
sciences, which inculcates the love of
learning and keeps forever alive the stu-
dent instinct, is the one thing essential for
the young man entering: any profession.

But some one may ask—and very prop-
erly: Is not a certain amount of prepara-
tory instruction necessary before taking
up the study of a profession? Are there
not definite subjects which a ‘student must
master before being admitted to a pro-
fessional school? Yes. To begin the study
of medicine the student should have a
working knowledge of chemistry, biology
and physics. But are these not parts of a
real training for life? And they are not
to be over-emphasized, even by the pros-
pective medical student, to the neglect of
the humanities—language, philosophy,
history, and appreciation of artistic and
spiritual things. Hours, units, courses, re-
quirements are no more important, it
seems to me, than a thorough grounding
in methods of study, learning to think,
discipline of mind and spirit.

The majority ,of students in an acad-
emic college will decide in their junior
year what profession they prefer. At that
period if the decision points toward med-
icine the student will be able so to ar-
range his work as to comply with stand-
ards set up by the medical schools. If
any among you have a strong desire to
become a surgeon, let him not be in too
quick haste to make up his mind. Surgery
is only one branch of medical practice.
Almost every medical student decides at
least once in his course that he will be a
great surgeon. Worthy ambition! Sur-
gery to him is more spectacular and its
results more certain, prompt and evident
than those of internal medicine. As the
student becomes the practioner and sees
more intimately the different phases of
medicine, he may observe that there is
more behind the scenes than he knew of,
and that surgery is heavenly when all
goes well, but the very opposite when ad-
verse things occur. Some who have gone
further along the road, if not of stout
heart, may actually capitulate or wish
they had had a chance to take in the
whole medical field.

If there should: be no narrow conception
engendered in the college work, certain--
ly for a stronger reason the student ought
not to “specialize” during his medical
school days. Mastering every subject, giv-
ing as much time to one as another, en-
deavoring to excel in all—such is the way
of the successful man. No one can be-
come a skillful surgeon unless he is first
a good doctor. f

Specifically I should recommend that
upon graduation in medicine a young
physician should serve at least one year
of a rotating internship in a general hos-
pital, that is, taking his turn on all the
services—medical, surgical, obstetrical,
etc. Then if he still has an ambition to be
a surgeon, he may elect a surgical fellow-
ship of three years in a first-rate clinic, or
attach himself to some high-class surgeon
as assistant, remaining with him three to
five years or longer. Either or both of
these arrangements will present the op-
portunity; it is the duty of the individual
to show the stuff he is made of. But un-
less the young man possesses brains, cul-
ture and character, unless he is endowed
with a strong constitution, unless he seeks
knowledge along with experience, he will
fail to measure up to the mark of his
high calling. No matter how long he may
be associated with a superior surgeon,
there will come a time when he is not the
assistant, but the operator—and it makes

Study of Medicine
Discussed By Mayo

Noted Physician Calls Work
Arduous But Wonderful

The study of medicine is arduous, but
it is wonderful in accomplishment and its
varied interest. If you can but forget its
rewards, in the worry over whether you
are doing what is expected of you and
what is best, and strive to do it, rewards
will come until you wonder whether you
really deserve them, and being but human,
are stimulated to” make greater effort.
Come with us into medicine, the study of
which will give you possession of more
knowledge of the world’ than any other
study, as you will learn nature in botany
and zoology, and of the birds and ani-
mals, also the science of the earth’s strue-
ture in geology, and of the waters with
their fish, and other life, and above all,
chemistry and physics, knowledge of
structure that you can take down and re;
build combinations of elements. Medicine
was always the learned profession. When
medicine was developed by the Greeks to
a high standard it then and since was the
source of scientific progress. What was
known of Botany, Chemistry, Astronomy
and Physics accumulated through all the
ages was a great part of the training of
the physicians of each period.

In the sixteenth century life averaged
but twenty years, in 1850 it was forty
years, but with the appreciation of the
causes of disease is has now advanced to
fifty-eight years by public health control,
i. ¢., preventative medicine. It was the
death of babies and children that/held
the averages low. We hear of big game
hunters, but their work and danger were
as nothing to that of microbe hunters
who studied disease and its cause, often
falling a victim to the disease themselves,
but others carrieg on. Engineers credit

a deal of difference on which side of the
table he is standing.” How he comes
through will depend upon whether or not
he has cultivated conscientiously every
strip of ground which Nature has given
him to till. If he has been educated, acad-
emically and technically, he will lead; if
he has taken short-cuts or barely man-
aged to “get by,” he will be one of the
herd.

A vision of the future surgeon brings to
light one who believes that he is not a
“born surgeon,” but, if so, he “must be
born again;” who is surcharged with love
for his profession, knowing that ardent
desire is the one constant element of
success; who realizes that he needs to be
grounded in medicine and its allied
sciences; who finds as he goes along that
good judgment is rather to be chosen than
great mechanics; who learns that keeping
fit is an asset to be sacredly nurtured;
who recognizes his dependence upon
training, first, last and all the time; and
who, being conscious of his glorious her-
itage, presses on with optimistic courage
to the outlook stretching on before him.

Bulletins

Catalogues of the leading eastern
schools of Medicine may be ob-
tained on the Vocational Guidance
table in the entrance of the “Y”
rooms. Any one interested is urged
to read these catalogues, but please
use them in the “Y” rooms and re-
turn them to the table as there will
probably be others who will want
to read them.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY

(Continued from Page 1)

team this year and an old Davidson alumnus,
has been helping Coach Younger smooth
out some of the rough spots in his players.
Booe has been in professional ball for fifteen
years or more, and at one time played for
the Pittsburgh Pirates. He has been work-
ing especially with the outfielders, for it was
in that position that he spent moss of his
time in the majors.

The probable Wildcat batting order for
the games this week will have Bernhardt,
shortstop, in the leadoff position, Parrish,
third base, and Goodson, 2nd base, get to
hit next. The rest of the order will be as
follows: Proctor, first base; McInnis, left
field; Miller, centerfield; Covington or
Mathis, right field; Armfield or Gladstone,
catcher; and Kugler or Thompson, pitcher.
Thompson, McInnis, or Henderson will go
to the box against Oak Ridge, and shifts
will be made in the outfield to cover McInnis’

the building of the Papama Canal to mod-
ern engineering methods. The French had.
good engineers and wonderful machinery.
We take out of the Minnesota iron mines
each year more pay dirt than the entire
diggings of the canal envolved. Our medi-
cal men under General Gorgas made the
work at the canal possible by stopping the
stalk of death from yellow fever and ma-
laria; it is now one of the most healthy
places in the world as the government
medical men still have charge of this area.

Medical investigators have found the
causes of the many diseases which de-
cimated thé people of former times and
by prevention, made community health
possible. We are now dying from our in-
dividual poor health from neglect or dis-
ease in inherited conditions, which are
often acquired from ignorance concern-
ing their causes and prevention. Health is
not necessary to happiness, congenial
work with pleasant associates is happi-
ness; in fact, happiness is a state of mind,
it may be often found in the insane as
vision of grandeur. Happiness may be cul-
tivated by the sane to advantage and then
may be found in doing good to others; to
an extraordinary extent it is cultivated by
the unfortunate blind.

The medicine man today stands in a
curious position. Responsible for making
life longer, he becomes morally respon-
sible for making old age worth living and
must help avoid senility or the result is
but an added burden upon community life
in general’as the sick and injured hamper
more than the dead.

Come with us as medicine is just in its
infancy, and here is a place for all who
will work in it to plan for the man of the
near future.

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATISFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

|

Dr. A. J. Crowell Discusses Field
From Mental, Moral, Physical,
and Mercenary Standpoints

Every person should invest his life in
such a way that it will bring greatest re-
turns, not alone to himself, but also to
his fellowman. No one lives up to his
greatest. opportunity who does not strive
daily to benefit those with whom he as-
sociates.

I know of no profession or occupation,
and certainly outside of the ministry, in
which such opportunities are offered as
that in the medical profession. However,
it is not without its trials and tribulations.
It means self-sacrifice, physical hardship,
and nervous strain to those who enter its
domain, but the reward is a thousand fold
if entered into with the desire to serve
suffering humanity.

There is no profession in which one has
such an opportunity to exemplify Chris-
tianity as that of the medical profession.
They come in contact with saint and sin-
ner at a time when deepest impressions can
be made and crises in their lives easiest
secured. Not even the ministry comes in
such intimate relations with the individual

position when he is on the mound.

The work of the Wildcat nine has been
improved a great deal in the Iast two weeks
of practice, and they are beginning to func-
tion more smoothly now. The men who have
been shifted to new positions have gotten
on to the knack of handling the ball at their
new posts, and prospects for the season are
looking better,now than at any time this
spring. The pitchers have come around
slowly, but are bearing down now with all
they have in their pitching arm. There have
been very few complaints about any soreness
after the first week of practice, and Doc
Charlie has rubbed out all the little kinks
and charley horses that have cropped out.
He says that his Wildcats are in better con-
dition now than ever, and its going to take
a mighty good ball team to beat them, if they
are ever beat.

Charlotte Physician Enumerates

Advantages Of A Medical Career

or the home as the physician and his in-
fluence for good or evil is in proportion to
his Christ-likeness. This much from a
moral standpoint.

Now from the standpoint of physical
helpfulness. No man should enter the
medical profession with the view of hav-
ing an easy time physically or mentally.
Competition in both are acute and it of-
fers nothing to the lazy man, mentally or
physically. If he attains great success, he
must deny himself many pleasures and
apply himself diligently in an effort to
keep up with medical progress or he can-
not compete with his alert competitor.
There is plenty room at the top, but the
bottom is crowded.

Now as to the field from a mercenary
standpoint. There have never been greater
opportunities for commensurate compen-
sation, and especially in the rural districts
and small towns. The family doctor has
largely disappeared as a result of the
tendency of the physician to specialize.
This soon will be overdone. The general
practioner is becoming more and more in
demand. Graduates in medicine have been
reduced greatly during the last ten years
and our population greatly increased, thus
offering greater opportunity for medical
men.

Preventative medicine is the watchword
of the hour and great opportunities are
offered in public work throughout the
United States with a reasonable compen-
sation. No greater field for usefulness in
the profession can be found than to pre-
vent the occurrence of the preventable
diseases,

As to the advisability of specializing in
any line of work, I would urge that every
one so doing should do a general practice
for several years first. I feel I can speak
with some authority, having done a gen-
eral practice for eight years before special-
izing. After such experience, one should
thoroughly prepare himself for the spe-
cialty he proposes to follow before locat-
ing. 2

S°E‘N°I°O °R'S
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices

Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday, March 24 and 25
“Montana Moon”
with
JOAN CRAWFORD

Wednesday and Thursday, March 26 and 27
“Girl of the Port”

Davidson Theatre

. Friday, March 28
- “Seven Days Leave”
with = &
GARY COOPER
- Saturday, March 29
“Battle of Paris”

se
