THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY §8, 1930

After Graduation --- What? .

Medical Missions Offer Large Field

To Students Interested In Missions

Letter Reveals Wonderful Work of
Doctor Morgan in China
Gemmenentitiaiicente mL

Letter from Rev. John W. Vinson, of
Haichow, China, in which he describes the
work of Dr. L. S. Morgan, missionary doc-
tor at that place:

“Dr. Morgan’s name would be written
high on the list of the medically famous in
any land. Out here his name is enshrined
in the hearts of. one and three-quarter mil-
lions of Chinese. All men instinctively trust
him; women and children adore him. He is
something more than just a fine doctor. He
is a MAN; always gentle, considerate, pa-
tient, kind; on the job day and night. I
have never known him to turn down a call
either because of weariness or unpropitious
weather.

“So varied are the cases in our daily clinic,
that only a partial report of each would fur-
nish material*for a rather bulky copy of the
‘Medical Journal.’ I was in the clinic today.
These are some of the cases. Here is a man
with a tubercular back. That one is in-
fected with hookworm. This young man, with
blood streaming down his face, has just had
a quarrel with his brother and his head has
come into violent contact with the business
edge of a butcher’s cleaver. That old gray-
beard, with the look of misery in his eyes,
has a carbuncle between his shoulders. None
of the modest tiny carbuncles, such as one
sees at home, but a full grown-up one cov-
ering some twenty-five or thirty square
inches. Here is a mite of a baby with his
HEAD ON ONE SIDE and a huge AB-
SCESS on the OTHER. These two men, by
the door, have badly infected hands. Their
white blood corpuscles have been waging
war with streptococci and pus-is abundant.
This man has leprosy. The one next to him,
cancer of the face. These two soldiers have
syphilis; that boy has scabby-head. Several
have malaria; five have kala-azar. That mid-
dle-aged man has trachoma and is almost
blind. That man just leaving has dropsy.
The nurse has just taken something like
a gallon of fluid from his abdomen. This
boy has a large stone in the bladder.

“There were 72 patients in the clinic to-
day. The above list are only illustrative
cases. Several will go to the operating room
tomorrow afternoon. Three or four opera-
tions in the afternoon after a busy morning
in the clinic make rather a full day for our
one doctor-surgeon. But his day’s work is not
finished until after he -has inspected his
average of 75 in-patients after supper. It’s a
lucky: night for him, too, when he is not
called up in the middle of the night to usher
a new-born child into the world or to make
life more bearable for some one of his acute-
ly suffering patients.

“Our doctor is a genius in more ways
than one. That soldier, limping along yonder
on crutches, will soon be walking again. He
was wounded three months ago in a battle
with a robber band. The thigh bone of his
right leg was so badly fractured that the
bones had to be spliced together in order
for them to knit properly. Our hospital has
little in the way of equipment for meeting
such an emergency, but our doctor was equal
to the occasion, having much mechanical
_ skill in his make-up. Taking a strip of steel

hooping from an old packing case, with file
and drill he fashioned it into a coupler to
suit his purpose, attached it to the broken
bones with a couple of nickle-plated stove
bolts and did as neat a job of bone-splicing
as was ever turned out at Hopkins or the
Mayos.

Our hospital is not only a place where
broken bones are mended, bullets extracted,
and dozens of other seemingly marvelous
things are done to broken or diseased bodies ;
there is also a clinic for wounded souls and
broken spirits. That man, with the sparkling
eyes and the smile, which is so broad that
he seems to be hiding behind it, is Mr. Liu
Hsiu-ting, our hospital evangelist. His is
more of an up-hill job than that of our
doctor, for, with the exception of a would-
be suicide every now and then, ALL of the
doctor’s patients are INTERESTED in hav-
ing SOMETHING DONE to their bodies.
But these who are sick of soul—in whose
breasts the torch of the Spirit burns but
feebly—WHY should they be INTEREST-
ED IN SOULS, being ignorant that they
possess one? Yet, through Mr. Liu’s faithful
efforts, there are some who make this in-
teresting discovery and go out of the hos-
pital new creatures in Christ Jesus, with a
new thirst and a deep longing for the full-
ness of the LIFE that is to be.

“So, taking it altogether, our Ellen Lavine
Graham Hospital is quite a wonderful in-
stitution. It’s the only one in this wide parish
of 1,750,000 people. You young doctors who
desire experience and plenty of practice,
either in medicine or surgery, or those of
you who wish to invest your lives where
human needs are greatest, come out to China
and lend OUR DOCTOR a helping hand.”

SPLIT PAIR OF GAMES
(Continued from page 3)

AB RH OA
Ratrish; 3b: 22¢s_ 222-7 2e SoZ. | 0
W. Miller, cf, -------- Ses OU 2220)
Goodson, 2b ..---------- Sl 2 0s
Proctor;-Ib 222----.-2 3 (ped Ves Veet st xo 7-4
McInnis, p, If ---------- ee (Dees bee hie |
Covington, c ------------ Ae 32 280
Kugler, If, p ------------ Ae le 272
Gladstone, rf ------------ Veer 4esen) bee 7-4-1)
Barnhardt, ss ---------- e080
McMillan, ss ----------- Ze On O lien,
Motalseeseess sce l lee 38 8 13 27 211
LENOIR-RHYNE
AB RH OA
Hager; 3bi-2-2-22-2 ce ie eee |
KasersS 22 oS ee ese S07 Os A 2.
PentzZ tiecsascccoss e225 40 2 3-0
Millet; chau ccscccceeces 4 le T3220
Bittleelie: 222s Se ees (Ve eo eso ea dN
emony 1b: os2-sc-ceceees 4:30. oh 94
Troutman, 2b ---------- Serie 3) Ono
HA iphes;.C; cacc-o2seeaene A WY WM 2%
Wincott.) -2secc2ecesccs 1-0 (O.- 37]
Mauney, p -------------- 100 0 0
Hirdley; p iees-se-cesenoe 15,0) 6034.0.)
Syiniyre;spicccsesssececs 1.0 0 0 0
hore akas Soot eee le 0. 0 0 0
Motals 20223550 ees 38 4 10 27 11

x—Batted for Erdley in 6th.

Score by innings:

b

Davidson

Theatre

Monday and Tuesday
Caught Short

MARIE DRESSLER
and

POLLY MORAN
AUSTIN PAGE

Wednesday
Strictly Unconventional

with
LEWIS STONE and LULA HYAMS
y and Friday

LA

NCE TIBBET

The Rogue Song
Aeon ‘the ¢ Corner

Business!

To Control Wealth

By W. D. Weatherford, President
Y. M. C. A. Graduate School

It is said the United States has accumu-
lated three hundred and twenty-five billions
of dollars. That amount of laid up wealth
is a tremendous challenge to the leadership
of our time. If we do not control this wealth,
it will control us. The biggest task of this
generation, therefore, is not to produce more
wealth but to generate enough of social and
moral dynamic to control the wealth al-
ready produced.

Here is a task big enough, complicated
enough, difficult enough to challenge the
finest brain and the boldest heart on any

DAVid8ON: cesscoscloscuscscs 200 401 001—8
Lenoir-Rhyne ~------------- 000 011 200—4
Errors: W. Miller, Barnhardt, Kiser 2,

Lemon. Two base hits: Hager, Goodson, Mc-
Innis. Three base hits: Hager, Parrish 2.
Sacrifices, Proctor, Lentz. Stolen bases: G.
Miller. Struck out by Mauney 2, by Smyre
3; by McInnis 6; by Kugler 1. Bases on
balls, off Erdley 1; off McInnis 2. Hits off
McInnis 10 in 6.1-3 innings; Mauney, 8 in
3 1-3 innings; Erdley, three in 2 2-3 in-
nings; Smyre, two in 3 innings.

college campus.

The one way of controlling wealth is
through persons whose ideals are refined and
chastened to see persons as ends and not
things—such spirits must be developed from
youth. The adult who is caught in the toils
of business never has time to look beyond
his task to the persons for whom the task
is done.

It is this fact which gives such éeindeidous
significance to work with boys and students.
Here we have plastic persons—those who
can be brought to see the ideal life of man-
kind. To help a boy or a student to think
in terms of persons and not of things, to
help them play for Sport and not for win-
ning, to help them play fair instead of cheat-
ing, to help them think clean rather than
unclean, to help them live for others rather
than for self—this is a chance which even
an angel would enjoy.

All this and more the worker with boys
can do, Ask any boys’ work secretary of the
Y. M. C. A. or any student secretary of the
Y. M. C. A. if he is working for money or
for men. And if he is worth a fig, he will
tell you he works for men.

If I had fifty lives to live, I would’ in-
vest all of them in producing in college men
and boys that dynamic character which will
help control an enormous wealth, and if
each of my fifty lives was capable of such
work, I would not invest a single one in
producing mere material wealth. In so do-
ing, I would add infinitely to the real wealth

of the world.

Medira: “Why is the National Biscuit
Company financing an African expedi-
tion?”

Toodles: “They want to get some new

designs for their animal crackers.”

“Where are you working now?”

Allie:

Emmy: “A & P.”

Allie: “Oh, you're one of the chain
gang.”

Take a Scotchman’s tip: Stay at school
over the week-end and let your mind do
the wandering.

———

Etta (in Coffee Shop):
were told not to park here.
you do it?”

Margaret: “Because of my belief.”

Etta: “Nonsense. Whatdoyo mean?”

Marg.: “I believed that you would
never come in here.”

“IT thought you
Why do

A Power in the Lodge

Boss: “Rufe, did you go to your lodge
meeting last. night?”

Rufus: “Nah, suh.
pos’pone it.”

Boss: “How was that?”

Rufus: “De Grand All-Powerful In-
vincible Most Supreme Unconquerable
Potentate dun got beat up by his wife.”

Too Fresh
Traffic Officer: “Hey! What’s the idea?
Didn't you hear me whistle to you?” '
Sweet Young Thing: “Certainly I did,
and if you try it again I’ll report you.”

We dun have to

and. memorial . structures

pride in the institution.

GENERAL

Light is the first of painters. :

BUILDINGS
in Which
You Take Pride

©n THE CAMPUS, where class buildings

distinguished by their noble form, flood-
lighting equipment serves to prolong the
enjoyment of their beauty and to enhance
»
application is made for the new 165-foot
campanile.at South Dakota State — mag-
:ificent gift of an alumnus. Electrically
operated chimes sound the hours and

are heard in concerts. At night, shafts of

— EMERSON

are so often

» Such an

responsible for the Ff ching, production, and distribution.

COMPANY,

oo 0:0 EN BOT ADT:

Drawing of the Coughlin Campanile at South Dahota State College,
Brookings, S. D. Perkins and McWayne, architects

light from General Electric floodlighting projectors effect a picture of superb beauty
done in the school colors and white. From the air, the tower is identified by the
beam from a G-E airway beacon surmounting the floodlighted dome. » » Thus,
G-E equipnient. plays its part in promoting progress and fine appreciation, Back of

every G-E product is an organization in which college-trained men are largely

95-767DH

GENERAL @ ELECTRIC

ELECTRIC

NEw YORK

