THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 6,

The Dabidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the. Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

J. WILSON McCUTCHAN .--Editor-in-Chief
J. A. CANNON usiness Manager

B.C. “DWELDE) JiRiksssccsuscacesSaeslils Managing Editor
Wi Si i bAtsioen ics ---Managing Editor
D, Gi -MATREINS ead. cacccscccsecs Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS-. Sports Editor
Vi°oMi BEL Dceccoc. Feature Editor
NORMAN@GRATBS wosiude so cceds ci saeue tele Feature Editor
PEA NCHS OM brevpsprreteerproperror rye rer ps Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN_. -Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK---.-- -Associate Editor
WO: - RAG Nescscccessaccccwsssssteessundenye Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

P. M. CONWAY...----.--------Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER__- _-Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS... --Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager
Pitky BROW Netccuscsssscccrcssco cls alassecus.etsccdece! Solicitor
R. W. FALLS Soa Solicitor
A. M. MANSO Ser: Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE eur De Solicitor
Wc; ©MORRO Wicics sis ecg ocean Solicitor
SioSi [Wil BYavaccsswessccccnusscscecdeccencsscaseunecs President
Dz G, “Vice-President
Ay Hs ----.-------------Seeretary-Treasurer

R. H. AL DE RMAN J. M. “BROWN

J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY

A. R. BIRD J. E. BOYD

N. B. DICKS J. G. DUNKLIN

E. O, GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK

1; By LAKE. R. L. McCALLIE

& C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P, PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

C. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 6, 1930

As far as the battle for learning goes, we
were pacifists—or conscientious objectors.
—Christopher Morley.

SUGGESTIONS

Ras Tafari has been crowned in all of his semi-

Oriental splendor. He claims descent from King
Solomon. Interesting, if true!

Students who quake at the thought of reviews
should remember that in life problems come up
day after day; much less do they conform to
schedule.

It will not be long before the Senior blazers will
make their bow on the campus. Whether their ap-
pearance is pleasing to the eye or not they repre-
sent four balls work,

Let no one forget the coming performance of the
Elizabethan Players. They should provide special
entertainment for English students.

Now that some students have been duly “hon-

ored” by various organizations let them down to
work for those groups.

FOR A BETT PAPER
Delegates of th fous publications have ee
fe meeting of the N. C. C. P.
DHey have brought ideas, plans, and Se
of problems back with them, They have listened
to the opinions of other editors. and business
managers. For the most part open discussion
was the order of the day.

While it is admitted that the affairs of
Press Convention are of great benefit to those
members who attend, the observer must not
think that there will be a revolution in either
theory or practice. Many schemes are discussed
which are never put into actual application.

There has been much query in times past as
to the true worth or value of conventions of
any nature. We are inclined to agree with most
critics that if there is one new and original
thought expressed during the entire session, it
has not been without value. In these times of
specialization it is a rare occurrence when some-
thing really original is introduced. The Harvard
Library considers a book to be worth its shelf
space if it is read once in three years; one con-
vention should be valuable if it can alter a de-
fect long unnoticed.

Readers of The Davidsonian must not ex-
pect a complete rejuvenation, as might be ex-
pected from the enthusiastic reports of local
delegates. Neither should they think that the
campus organizations work and move in a
sphere all their own. As has been stated in this
column before, the staff of The Davidsonian
is at all times open to suggestion or criticism,
whether it may come from reader or specialist.
It is a student body publication.

TWO FRIENDS OF STUDENTS

It is unusual to find lady members of the fac-
ulty or administration of a boys’ school. Never-
theless, there are two ladies who will always
claim a large share of-the thoughts of David-
son men, both before and after they have grad-
uated. It is impossible to mention one with-
out the other.

Possibly the. reason that these Seats as
.strongly as they do to men on the local campus
is because their work is of a more personal

nature than that which falls to the lot of most
administrative officials. Mrs. N. T. Smith and
Mrs. A. B. Robson jointly share the responsi-
bility of mothering six hundred men who are
away from home, many of them for the first
time.

One meets students when they are in all
moods, when they are “at home” in their rooms ;
the other,sees them when they are distinctly
“blue” and sick. It is likely that as much com-
fort 4nd consolation has come to Davidson men
from the lips and example of these two offi-
cers of the college as from any other source.

As falls to the lot of any person in an offi-
cial capacity, Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Robeson
have occasionally had to raise the restraining
hand, but their part in the progress and com-
fort of the student .body far exceeds their
portion in the restriction of so-called “personal
liberties.”

Many students fail to appreciate the care and
interest taken in them by these two ladies, One
thing is certain: both of them have a large
place in their hearts filled with the love for
young men. Nothing else could impel them to
spend the time they have with administering to
the welfare of hundreds of energetic, and
times headstrong, college men.

THERE ARE OTHER WAYS

It is somewhat difficult to discuss this sub-
ject without creating the impression that we
are encroaching on the rights of vocational
guidance or spiritual leadership. Still, because
it deals with a problem frequently discussed,
we do not believe that it will be out of place.

A goodly proportion of Davidson students
are candidates for the ministry. There is prob-
ably no profession which is more deserving of
respect and which is more exacting as regards
character and tact. No profession, and it is dis-
tinctly a profession, requires a wider knowledge
and appreciation of human nature, a more eager
willingness to mingle with people of every class
of life, a broader desire to live what one he-
lieves, a better all-rounded man than does the
ministry of the gospel.

In the same category comes that group of
men who have signified their intention to do
mission work, We feel that these men all recog-
nize the road they have chosen to be one with
ruts and narrow places. We do know that they
deem it a course which repays finally with the
better things of life. The most that the rest of
us can do is to admire and respect them, 1

However, it is possible to be engaged in
Christian work without definitely entering the
ministry or engaging in mission work. There
is a distinet place for. the layman, Whether he
chooses business, medicine, law, journalism, or
any of a hundred other phases of‘ work, a man
has opportunit¥*to help the condition of his
neighbor. A true hermit is the only character
who has no social contact, and we cannot say
that he is without his obligations.

There should be very few who could doubt
this statement that laymen can be of direct
service. To dispel their doubts, however, we
could mention numerous men who have heen
noted for their active religious work. Perhaps
Wade C, Smith was one of the best known lay-
men.-in the church. He was recently ordained
by a:special act of Presbytery. Those who heard
the vesper talk on last Sunday will recognize
another,

We are old-fashioned enough to believe that
every man is cut out for a particular work.
The reason for this is that he can accomplish
more in his profession than he can in-another.
Business men can go far toward controlling
labor and financial conditions in the country ;
lawyers should be instruments of justice; jour-
nalists have a great influence in formulating the
public thought and opinion. It is impossible to
estimate the influence which any man may have
as a leader in his community or professional

field,

Society demands that men devote themselves
to different interests, but it also demands that
they give these interests all. A half-hearted
worker accomplishes little for the good of him-
self or anybody else. The motto, “Start at
home,” can be applied to more subjects than
travel,

In the final analysis we would leave every
man’s choice to his own will. But, in the light
of what has been said, we defy anyone to show
us a minister who is not a man, and a man
who does not have the best interests of other
people at heart. ‘““A man’s a man for a’ that.”

Investigation carried on by Louis I, Dublin, statisti-
cian for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
has led to the discovery that college-bred men live
longer on the average than other men.

Five thousand delegates will represent half of the
teachers in the world at the conyention of the World
Federation of Education Associations, to be held at
Denver, Colo., in July, 1931. These delegates will
come from sixty nations and from all the races of the
world,

|
|
|

President Lingle, in a speech to the alumni last
Homecoming day a year ago, presented to them
the many necessities of our college, and appealed
to them to choose at least one of them soon, and

namely, a
These

through contributions, establish here,
new Infirmary, field house or social center.

only ,a few the needs our executive em-
Thus far, if any definite progress toward

it has not been re-

are of
phasized.
any of these

vealed.

has been made,

However, regardless of the lack of outside im-
petus, the Social Center, created two years ago by
the Y. M. C. A., and located in the first floor of
the Eumanean Literary Society building, has been
the object of vast improvement this year. Much
credit for this must be given Maraduke Norfleet
whose position on the “Y” Cabinet is to supervise
the activities of the Social Center, and whose tire-
less efforts have really brought the campus ren-
dezvous to the heyday of its existence.

On this past Homecoming day, hundreds con-
tinually swarmed the Social Center. The majority
of Davidson men who had their girls or relatives
here entertained them at the popular
meeting Numerous visiting alumni, who
realized the importance of such an addition
Davidson’s many extra-curricular features,
mented favorably on the, newly-revived “Y” pro-
ject.

The two main rooms of the Social Center
are very attractive, having been exquisitely
furnished during the early fall. In the first
year of its establishment, all the furniture for
one room was provided. Last yeat, a radio was
purchased, after funds were procured from
the proceeds of a show held here on the cam-

as guests,
a
place.
to
com-

pus. During the past summer, a hardwood floor

was laid in the east room, which was also

papered.

This fall, two new rugs were donated by a Win-
ston-Salem friend whose name has not been made
known. ‘Shepherds, Inc., of Winston-Salem
gave two tapestries, a number of parchment light
shades and several lamp fixtures. A° prominent
of the student body donated the material
for the curtains which were designed and made by
Mrs. Watts and Mrs, Schenck. Mrs. Watts made
the upholstered cushions for the long window seat
in the west room.

Most every man has a girl he would like to
bring to Davidson on the week-end when the
social calendar indicates a program of activity.
Many are hesitant because, since they do not
choose to affiliate with campus social organi-
zations, they feel that the prevailing facilities
for entertainment of guests are seemingly in-
adequate. This attitude must be quashed, espe-
cially since it has been announced that the
Social Center will be open to every one, every
day of the college year and certainly on every
week-end, regardless of whether any athetic
attraction is or is not scheduled for appear-
ance here.

On next Saturday, November 15, Carolina plays
here—the biggest game of the year. This day is
also recognized on the college social calendar, pro-
viding for such events. Be sure and invite someone
up. The Social Center has been established for
YOU and its adequacy will serve very well until
some understanding philanthropic alumni build for
us a greater and better equipped building which
wil automatically enrich Davidson's social life._-

also

member

Reflections: Croswell Ragin is the keenest
wit in the student body, undoubtedly. It is the
consensus of students that his column which
appeared in The Davidsonian last year and
known as “Smokehouse Saga,” was the most
humorous collegiate attempt up to that time
ever read by a Davidson man. We really and
sincerely believe that Croswell is the most
brilliant writer of humor in any southern col-
lege publication, and the students demon-
strated their appreciation for his talent a few
weeks ago, by unanimously electing him
editor-in-chief of the new comic magazine
which succeeds the Chameleon. Who could
have more pleasant personality than John
Ashcraft or Walter Fraley? Joe and Lock
Houston are members of the same family
which includes the venerable Texan—General
Sam Houston. And so it is with Taylor Marion
and the immortal “Swamp Fox”—General
Francis Marion. In 1927 Harry Moffett was
president of the student body of Phillips High
School in Birmingham, Ala., largest of its kind
in the South and one of the best rated high
schools in the United States. Zeb Russell, who
was graduated here last Juhe, has an older
brother who was recently nominated for Gov-
ernor in Georgia on the Democratic ticket, which
is tantamount to election and is declared to be
the youngest man ever to be elected the state
executive in the pine tree state. Joe McCall’s
beautiful running form on the gridiron has won
the admiration and popular fancy of thou-
sands of football fans this year. Jack Mat-
thew’s father was once a member of the fac-

MUSINGS 9 “%e
MATADOR _

oe eA

JS5
yy
Seed VEREEN
i al BELL
Circus day! Big parades! Stand back there little
you might get hoit. Here comes a man wanting
some dye. What? Oh, he doesn’t want dye, he’s hunt-
ing for his tints. They are putting up the tints now
and before wery long they are going to drill the
clowns. You know, the eternal Pagliacci. Left, clown,
left !

boy,

s“Here yer go, getcha tickets fer tha big show.
Getcha—what’s “at ma’am? No, I ain’t seen a man
with one leg named Joe—getcha tickets right here.”

The crowd surged ¢nd milled about the box wagon.

“Hey, mister, this man stole my pocketbook!”

“Oh, so he stole yer pocketbook, did ’e?” said the
circus policeman.

“Yessir.”

“Well, young man, I ain’t gonna arrest you, but you
may leave the tent right now!”

“IT may and I may not,” said the thief, “but you had
better keep a close eye on yer lions and taggers.” And
ran off in the crowd.

On wit de show! Us ectors must go on.

“Say, mister, I wanna buy a ticket and my finances
amount to exactly zero,” whined a lad as he edged up
to the window.

“Kid, that’s nothin’ in my young life. Heh, heh.”

“It’s very little in mine,” retorted the lad, and
slouched off.

Let’s go in de side show where all de f’roshus ani-
mals are.

A little boy goes up to a cage where a lady is bat-
tling with a snarling lion, The little brat is very much
disappointed by the display.

\, YTfey, lady, make him bite cha onct,” he screamed.

The boy’s mother came up and said:

“Now don’t you let that lion bite you thtil Willie
says ‘Please’ !”

Ah, here come de clowns. They’re jest tearing around
and jumping on each other’s neck.

One of ’em sez:

“How you feel to-night, not much?”

“T feel lak a dumb owl, nothingmore.”

“How’s ’at?”

“T don’t give a hoot!”

Oh, look! They’re gonna have a wedding. No, not
“wetting,” wedding! All the clowns are lining up for
the big march an? lil’ Eva is up ahead breaking the
ce. Her ice are blue. But anyway, the grand march
is on. The bride wore a lovely bib of oil-cloth and her
gown was of the most gorgeous chamois, Her train,
including two Pullmans and a diner, ts looked after by
two red-caps. She is the picture of lovely womanhood,

‘hot being a bit over six feet seven. Her bouquet is of

fragrant Jimson weed. The groom, a masculine fel-
low weighing at least ninety pounds, is clad in blue
denim overalls and spats.

The band is softly playing, “On, Chicago.”

The justice lays violent hands upon the groom and
intones :

“Eenie, meenie, minie, moe,
Why he’s marrying her, I don’t know,
Unless it’s to get her (Sel je)
Eenie, meenie, minie, moe.”
Then with water in his eyes (from eating onions),
he turns to the brides and continues:

* “Hit him in the collar bone,
Soak him in the beezer,
Crack his head between your palms,
Like a lemon squeezer,
Rah rah rah, Liverpool,
Liverpool, Liverpool.”

And with these words the happy couple jumped into
their old Ford and were off, stopping only at the
monkey cage where the groom got a monkeyshine.

Don’t burn your bridges before you have one in the
hand.

Selah. Alas, and woebetide!

Henry Martyn Mackay, dean of the faculty of
applied science and professor of civil engineering
at McGill University, Montreal, Que., died in his
sixty-third year.

A tale of being thrown four feet into the air
when a bolt of lightning struck near his feet while
he was at work was told by Alex Fox, 22, of Bill-
ings, Mont.

Official registration figures make the Detroit
Municipal Colleges the largest collegiate entity in
the State of Michigan. With a total registration
of 9,654, he Detroit Colleges’ tnrollment exceeds
that of the University of Michigan by exactly 301
studens, figures from both institutions show.

Strained econmic cnditins have greatly reduced
the number of fraternity houses on the campus
of Detroit College, a canvass of fraternity houses
shows. Many brotherhoods which maintained
rooms last year, have postponed such activities
until next year.

ulty here at Davidson College. Student speeches
are an interesting feature of the chapel exer-
cises. Dean Dusk and Larry Smith have man-
aged the Student’s store exceptionally well
this year. It is probably in the best condition
and has more variety now than any time since
its inception.
