6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Barium Springs Defeats
Fresh Wrestling Squad

Here By Uneven Score |

Barium Springs Takes Two, Falls
While Davidson Grapplers Get
Two Time Advantages

SCORE IS 16)% to 171,

Ogden and King Fight to Draw in’

Close Match

The Fresh wrestling team suffered its
first loss of the season to a capable bunch
of Barium Springs wrestlers. The Wild-
kittens were in there fighting until the

finish, but the boys from Barium were |

just a little too good for them. The score
was 16 1-2 to 17 1-2.

Barium had three falls to her credit
while Davidson had only two time ad-
vantages. Morris and Tyack, of David-
son won their battles on time, and Ogden
fought to a draw with King of Barium.
The latest mentioned match was the best
of the meet. Both men showed considéer-
able wrestling ability and were so closely
‘matched that at the end of an extra
peried, their bout was called a draw.
Brown of Barium proved to be a fast and
clever wrestler in a touch match with
Taylor of Davidson. He threw Taylor
after several minutes of nip and tuck
wrestling. Gregory lost to Jackins of
Barium after nearly six minutes of strug-
gling. It looked as if Gregory were going
to win on time advantage, but the Barium
wrestler came from behind and threw him
in the last few minutes. Tyack, of David-
son, won comparatively easily on time
advantage over Shaffer, who proved an
adept at the art of keeping on his
stomach. Wick lost to Donaldson of Ba-
rium by a fall.

Summary: 115 pounds—Morris, of Dav-
idson, won over Vann on time advantage
of 4 minutes and 25 seconds.

“125 pounds—Donaldson of Barium won
by a fall over Vick of Davidson in 2
minutes and 55 seconds.

135 pounds—Tyack, of Davidson, won
over Shaffer on time advantage of 7
minutes and 33 seconds.

145 potnds—Brown, of Barium, won
over Taylor, of Davidson, by a fall after
5 minutes and 10 seconds.

155 pounds—Jackins, of Barium, won
over Gregory by a fall after 5 minutes
and 50 seconds.

165 pounds—Ogden, of Davidson, and
King, of Barium, fought to a draw after
the match had gone an extra period.

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

The Omnibus of Crime, edited by
Dorothy L. Sayers, Payson &
Clarke, Ltd., New York, 1929. $3.00.

In this country they are commonly
called “anthologies,” collections, or ac-
cumulations; in England one calls them
“omnibuses”! Regardless of provincial-
isms, Miss Sayers has attempted a very
daring piece of work. To choose 62 ex-
amples or stories of detection and mys-
tery requires no little portion of acumen.
When the critic recalls numerous. tales
of this nature it is evident that no group-
ing can be made which will satisfy every
reader.

Miss Sayers divides her “omnibus” into
several distinct sections or groups. To the
one who has enteretained the idea that
the mystery story is a modern institution,
particularly in regard to the pure detec-
tive sketch, it is a distinct shock to find
four stories in this book listed under the
heading of “Primitives.” Thereafter, there
are two principal divisions, “The Modern
Detective Story” and ‘““Macrocosmos”
(Stories of the: Supernatural),

® “Peculiarly interesting to note is the
list of authors from which Miss Sayers
draws her material. The names of Char-
les Dickens, Joseph Conrad, Edgar Allan
Poe, and Robert Louis Stevenson lend
the table of contents a decided literary
atmosphere. One is also allured by the
enticing name of Wilkie Collins which
appears in an enumeration on the outside
of the cover. Upon closer inspection, how-
ever, one finds that the only “Collins”
' listed in the group of authors is Charles
Collins who is given credit for collabora-
tio with Charles Dickens on “The Trial
for Murder.” It is not easy to forgive this
misleading and obviously incorrect infor-
mation. Other names are honored, but
many of them, such as H. G. Wells and
Conan Doyle, have yet to be tested by
time. : i
Something can be said also as to the
chosen example of an author's art. For

Good Squad Reports
For Spring Football

About fifty men have reported to
| Coach Tilson for Spring football practice,
| which is being held every afternoon on
Sprunt Field. The squad has been only in
preliminary work, including blocking,
tackling, passing and punting. After the
|meén_ get into better condition the squad
will be divided into two teams and will
scrimmage on Saturday afternoon.

Many men who were expected to re-
port for practice have not yet been out.
| All men who intend to go out next fall are
expected to report this spring.

The men who are out for the line are
Brown, Raker, Mason, Miller, White,
| Parker, Baker, Wilson, McConnell, N. Mc-
| Fadyen, Hunter, Currie, Barrier, Brooks,
|Cannon, Mullins, Whitefield, Hall, Spen-
;cer, Ross, Ogden, Gregory, Mackorell,
Watson, Gardner, Howard, DuBose, Nor-
man, Kirkendall, Coble, Bell and Steele.
The backfield men include Fraley, King,
Goodykoontz, McQueen, H. C. McFadyen,
3radshaw, Pearce, Clark, Fleagle, Mc-
Fee, Norfleet, Mills, Flynn and Beacham.

example, “The Mystery of Marie Roget,”
by Edgar Allan Poe is the sole representa-
tive of that originator’s masterpieces.
From a technical point of view this story
is excellent, containing few flaws. On the
other hand, it is hardly the best known
of Poe's stories, nor is it commonly ac-
cepted as the best illustration of his in-
tensely appealing style.

Which discussion gives proper access to
the age-worn question as to the purpose
of a detective story. Should it be a piece
of pure literary structure, technically cor-
rect both from the standpoint of the de-

interest and interrogation on the part of
the reader? It is not pertinent to argue
the matter here, but it does appear that
Miss Sayers would have done well if she
had taken a definite stand. As it is, her
“Omnibus” contains many selections of
each of these two types in addition to a
multitude that cannot be properly classi-
field in a hasty criticism.

It is difficult, too, for the American to
pardon the editor in her evident omission
of American writers. She exhibits a de-
cided preference for Englishmen. In all
justice to Miss Sayers, for she is.an Eng-
lishwoman, it is acknowledged that she is
in a position in which it is far easier for
her to keep well informed on current
Engiish literature . . . if the majority of
it be literature. But, one, who has at-
tempted to edit an “Omnibus,” is expected
to have a thorough knowledge and appre-
ciation for all the material which passes
under the classification of the work. The
book is not entitled “The Omnibus of
English Crime,” nor is is “An English
Omnibus of Crime.”

One of the omissions which frets Amer-
ican readers the most is the total absence
of any acknowledgment of the now-
popular writer, S. S. Van Dine. It will
doubtless be contended that he cannot be
classéd as a master of literature, but
neither can many of the English authors

tective and art critic, or should it impel

DR. RIMMER PROVES

(Continued from page 1)

of the ‘Pentateuch,” they tell us, ‘writing was
not even invented in Moses time.’ Recently |
letters written between Amraphel, Abraham, |
Melchizedeck, and others have been found |
many hundred years before Moses. If Moses |
couldn't write he must certainly have been |
an ignoramus.

But you know Moses couldn't have lived
when he did because he mentioned wine in
Egypt and Herodotus says it was unknown |
in Egypt.’ In tombs excavated within the
past few years frescos have been found tell-
ing the entire story of wine from the press |
to the slaves carrying out their masters after
the banquet. Yes, Herodotus said otherwise
but Heroditus and Moses lived at two far |
removed times.

“An eminent authority on the Arabic lan-
guage stated that the Old Testament was
full of errors. The most glaring of these he |
thought were the references to the Hittite
Empire which he claimed never existed. But
all this time there were many monuments
all over Asia Minor written in an unknown |
tongue. It fell to the lot of this man to dis-
cover the key to this language and it turned
out that-these-were--the.writings of this an- |
cient Hittite Empire. He originally wrote |
eight volumes to prove the fallacy of the
Old Testament and now he has written four-
teen to prove its truth. ‘Lack of faith in the |
Old Testament,’ he says, is a sign of ignor-
ance or semi-knowledge at best.

“Sir Wm. Ramsey found so many mis-
takes in Luke that he discounted the whole
New Testament. In Luke-2:2 he finds Cyren-
ius mentioned as the Roman Governor of
Syria. After looking up the records he could
find no mention of Cyrenius. Therefore he
thought Luke could not have lived when he
was supposed to have or he would not have
made this blunder. In Acts 14 he finds that
Luke says that Paul and Barnabus fled from
Iconium over into Lystra and Derbe, cities
of Lycaonia. According to.all the old Roman
maps he could find Iconium was also in
Lycaonia therefore it would have done Paul
and Barnabus no good to flee to two cities
in the same province. Later in some archeo-
logical excavations he found in some mumi-
fied crocodiles another list of the Roman

2

represented. There are a few of them who
have yet to prove themselves.

In conclusion, it is admitted that “The
Omnibus, of Crime” provides pleasant
reading. There are few readers who could
not lose themselves time after time in the
intriguing labyrinths of plot-artists. But,
intensive interest does not always consti-
tute literary merit. Miss Sayers has at-
tempted a work which, as stated before,
can never please critics to a full degree,
but it probably comes as close to perfec-
tion as can any “Omnibus.” At first sight,
the book impresses one in much the same
way as does “Les Miserables”; one ex-
periences a distinct drop in nerve; never-
theless it is excellent for “broken” read-
ing. For pleasure and interest nothing
can be said against “The Omnibus of
Crime”; for literary and intellectual aid
one can do better. Let it suffice that it
is a collection formed for the purpose of
providing temporary enjoyment.

—J. W. McCutchan.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Stationery Fountain Pens
Books Felt Goods
Mazazines Sundries
Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

: |
At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY
Mooreeville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

DAVIDSON DEFEATED

(Continued from page 1)
Blue Devils pulled away at this point and
were never headed thereafter. The score at
the end of the half was 16 to 11.

Things rocked along evenly for the first
part of the second period, with Davidson
trailirig by eight points. The Wildcats took
advantage of every chance at the goal and

| gradually clossed the gap to two points, with

the score 27 to 29 with bare minutes left to

| play. Werber put in a field goal to give

Duke thirty-one. Then Davidson ran up
three points to make the count 30 to 31.

| Goodson tok the ball under his own goal,

dribbled down the entire length of the court

/and dropped in a basket that would have

given the Wildcats a one-point lead, with
thirty seconds to play, but he was judged
out of bounds by the referee, and the Duke

|team was given the ball. On a pretty play

Rogers dropped in a field goal and the gun
fired, ending the game with the score 33 to

| 30.

Governors of Syria. Cyrenius had reigned
three months, but had tried to inflict a tax
on the Jews when no tax was due, so he had
been dishonorablty~discharged and his name
stricken from the roll of governors. In the
same set of papers he also found a map of
the Roman Empire showing that the bound-
aries of Lycaonia had been extended in in-
clude Iconium in 156 A.D., after this account
had been written. After forty years of mis-
taken belief he states that he has returned to
the traditional view that the New Testament
is historic, accurate, and the inspired word
of God.’ Forty-one other great critics have
recently reversed their opinions in the light
of modern sciences’

“A peculiar type of lamp had been found
in the old collections the use of which could
not be determined. Within the past few
years it has been found from excavated pic-
tures and mosaics that they were foot lamps.
Dueé to the unsatisfactory sewage systems,
the irregularities .of the paths, and the
poisonous reptiles that were prevalent in that
day when one ventured out at night he
always wore a lamp on each shoe. These
were the lamps David referred to when he
said, ‘Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and
a light unto my path. If we walk in the
light of God’s word in the path Jesus traced
we are sure to find happiness through chris-
tian experience.”

‘

Intramural Volley
Ball

The Intramural Volley Ball con-
test has not progressed very far, but
some of the games have been play-
ed, and the results are as follows:
in the first round, the Seniors and
the Juniors played, the game being
won by the Seniors; in the same
round, the Sophomores played the
Freshmen, this game being won by
the Freshmen. In the second round,
the Seniors played the Sophomores,
and the Sophomores won. The rest
of the games have not been played
as yet, but they will be played as
soon as possible. The managers for
these teams are , McGeachy, Sen-

ior; Kramer, Junior; McConnell,
Sophomore; and Manson, Fresh-
man.

Davidson (30) Position Duke (33)
Pritchett. Cll) a ussecuze esas Councilor (6)
Forward
JOhiston (4) teesseseeeseselocs Rogers (9)
Forward
Riiske (8) srcscssuseees see sess Croson (12)
Center
Goodsoll C7) oa seeses ee Selle Fraley
Guard
PrOCtOr= (6) socecosseececsesse Werber (6)
Guard
Substitutes: Davidson, Moore (2); Mar-

tin. Duke: Shaw.

Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

To The
Home
Owner.

Your ordinary Fire insurance will
not fully protect you if your home
is destroyed by fire.

Where are you going to live pend-
ing repairs or reconstruction after the

re
“ You need RENTAL VALUE in-
~ surance to pay the cost of renting an-
other home while rebuilding.
When may we fully explain the
benefits of a Rental Value policy?

It's safer to have insurance—
and not need itl

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance De ent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

. P.H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

UV VV VV VV VV VV YVVYVVYVYVVVVYVVYVYVVVYVVVVVVVYVVVVVVVVVVVVY

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17 and 18

“Street Girl’”’
BETTY COMPSON

Wednesday, February 19
“Jazz Heaven”

SALLY O’NEAL
JOHN MACK BROWN

Davidson Theatre

Thursday, February 20

“South Sea Rose”
5 LENORE ULRIC

Friday, February 21
“Seven Faces”
PAUL MUNI

Saturday, February
‘ “Melodie Man”

22 J
