NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1930

Che Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents
legiate Year. Entered as second
Office, Davidson, North, Carolina,

er copy; $2.00 the Col-
class matter“at the Post

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN..............--.--- Editor-in-Chief
,  AGOANNON: gacasbesaredkuuuuvaLalesaded Business Manager
E, C. DWELL ---Managing Editor
W. S. LEA --Managing Editor
D. G. MART Managing Editor
W. _H. -------Sports Editor
Vv. M. L ---Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES-_. ---Feature Editor
A. R. LESESO Gate ee ------Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN -Associate Editor
Gk BLACK.. -Associate Editor
. C. RAGIN... .--Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Pics CONWAY scssusbsccineccs Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER...-. .---Assistant Business Manager
3) Be OU VIN Diiscddunsaccccauus: Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY...----..-------- Subscription Manager
Picky DROW Nusbssdnascasccccccusuusubcuedescosueusocuus Solicitor
R. W. FALL -Solicitor
A. M. MANS -Solicitor
A, L. MEBANE -Solicitor
W. R. MORROW -Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB -
SoS WIDEY duescssdescutesusccsaccsuacesnatauceusouus President
Di Gr STBEHENSONicsscsscteckssusccscsascese Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD }: E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
& Cc. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS H, F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON Ss. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W...B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 23, 1930

Only tame kittens and yes-men lack foes.
—Rabbi Louis Newman

Deepest sympathy is extended to Charles

Kraemer in the death of his father.

SUGGESTIONS
It is not often that one gets to see a football
game like the one with Citadel. Davidson has
played few teams that tackled harder and played
CLEANER FOOTBALL than the Bulldogs. Stu-
dents should be particularly proud to hold a vic-
tory over such a group of players. :

One cannot help wondering how many bands
will be in attendance aSturday. It was last Thanks-
giving that the Duke band and the Gastonia Fife
and Bugle (and drum) Corps had their contest to
see which could play the longest.

Few students could have been left on the. cam-
pus Saturday. It was one of the best attendances
to foreign games in the last thrée seasons.

Just because you are not being bored to dis-
traction with it, don’t forget the boys’ library
sponsored by the “Y.”

If everybody would plunge himself into some
phase of extra-curricular activity,.these activities
would in all probability improve. It is all right to
poke the fire at times, but it won’t burn forever if

fuel isn’t added.

Custom demands that everybody speak to alumni
as well as to fellow students when meeting them
on the campus.

MORE POWER TO THEM

We cannot pass the week without a word
of commendation to the football team for
the manner imwhich it came back at Citadel
Once again the Widcats displayed the fact
that defeat can be forgotten and erased in
victory, —

There were many interesting incidents in
Charlotte. It would be impossible to laud
any one individual more than another. The
line held and.the backs ran; what more can
be said? We leave additional comments to
the sports writer. But, we will say that
team work was the deciding factor in the
day’s activities. Dumas’ famous remark,
“One for all and all for one,” received a
modern application.

This optimistic recovery has ever been
the manner of Davidson teams. However,
the present circumstances appear a little
more stringent than usual. The defeat in
Durham hurt; no one denies that. There are
‘no alibis; there is no criticism, but the sting
was there. Students and other people had
begun to whisper the magic words “State
Championship.” Seniors, especially, may
have been guilty of the wonder phrase ; they
heard all about the sensation fromthe up-
perclassmen in their freshman year. At first
glance the Duke game damaged predictions.

There is still a fighting chance for the
State Championship, #t is in a crisis that the
Wildcats have ever looked their best. We

— -

do not hesitate to prophesy victories, with
the opposing team being shut out, for the’

rest of the season if the team plays like it

VOTE OF TRIBUTE TO THE Y. M. C. A.

Through the efforts of the Y. M. ©, A.
and the Senior class each Davidson man will
have the opportunity to invite a guest for
the week-end program. No one need feel any
reluctance in doing this. Students should
not forget that there is a place for social
life as well as the intellectual and physical.
The man is at a distinct loss who. does not
know how to conduct himself in the pres-
ence of other men and young ladies. Even
women-haters have been known to fill
necessary social obligations.

For those who entertain any doubt as to
the accommodations provided we. would
suggest that they drop in the Social Center
for a few minutes some time during the day
or night. Acting as head of the department
in charge of social life on the Y. M. C, A.
cabinet M. W. Norfleet has done much to
furnish an attractive and comfortable social
plant.

Divided into two large rooms the Social
Center possesses every necessity for a suc-
cessful reception. Chairs, upholstered and
luxurious, are placed around a cheerful fire-
place, radio, and victrola. In the other room
a piano and other furniture will give ample
opportunity for music to those who are so
_inclined. Two distinct advantages are noted ;
those who wish to create music can do it,
and those who do not wish to lisen do not
have to. It is a happy medium,

However, the whole matter resolves itself
into the fact that the Senior class and the
Y. M. C. A. can do little if the students are
not willing, A. party to which no one comes
is usually dead. There can be no reception if
there is no one to receive.

THE ANNUAL PILGRIMAGE

Each year a large number of alumni trek
back to the scene of their undergraduate
life. It is impossible for the student to fully
appreciate the feelings which probably
surge forward in their hearts when they re-
trace the old walks of the eighties and nine-
ties. It is needless to, rémark that they. are
many and yaried.

It is true that Elm and Oak Rows no
longer serve as dormitories or as fraternity
halls. Students do not have to go out and
cut their own fire wood or fill their kerosene
lamps. Those who go to Charlotte can do
so and return in the afternoon, regardless of
train schedules. It is no longer necessary to
sit in a buggy for six or seven hours in order
to make thg trip. Progress has speeded up
transportation, but it still takes about the
same length of time to get a degree,

Courses have been added to the curriculum,

yet it is doubtful if present day students
learn much more. The fundamental basis re-
mains the same.

Nor is the educational side of college life
the only part that has not changed. Two or
*three traditions had their origin while men
who are now alumni were in school; they
had to be started then to become traditions.
That “Wildcat Spirit” so frequently lauded
and praised made its appearance long ago.
It is fortunate that it did. We doubt if there
is a Davidson graduate living who can re-
member when Davidson men failed to speak
to each other as they passed on the campus.
As with these, so with numerous other cus-
toms! :

Love for one’s Alma Mater is not a mod-
ern or unique idea. Some one experienced
the-emotion years ago; others have had it
because they felt that “it was the thing to
do,” but the majority have yielded to the
admiration and devotion for their college.
Davidson soil did not become hallowed in a
fortnight; its professors were respected in
the past as they are today.

Homecoming day is one time when the
business and professional man would like to
.be considered an undergraduate again. Oft-
times students are prone to stand aloof of
their distinguished visitors. We do not be-
lieve that this is the attitude desired by re-
turning men. It will be as Davidson men
rather than as alumni that they will wish to
be welcomed.

It will be easy to be especially congenial
with the “baby alumni.” Seniors, Juniors,
and Sophomores alike remember the men
who graduated last June. They will still ap-
pear in the light of schoolmates. Every
alumnus was once a “baby one.” Passing
years have made little difference in their de-
votion to Davidson.

A few years ago there was a large lake
situated where the golf course now is. For
various and sundry reasons the water was
allowed to drain from it; the land was re-
stored and the present course constructed.

Aside from the new building it is probably.

the biggest change noticeable to men.who
ee

did last Saturday. Unanimously, the student
body wishes to congratulate the-team for
its victory over the Citadel. May there be
many more like it., :

What Do You Know
About?

A quarter-mile up?
Real Higher Education?
The Chain Gang?

The Annual Date Race?

The title of the “tallest building in the world”
is one of a most transitory nature along the ever-
changing skyline of New York City. The Chrysler
building, only recently completed and which points
its flagpole well over a thousand feet into the air
wrested that name away from the Woolworth
tower which had for so long a time been a Mecca

or tourists.

ng!

But the position of the Chrysler building is de-
stined to be short lived, for the Empire State build-
ing, rapidly nearing completion, towers almost
two hundred ‘feet above the present title holder.
It is 1,250 feet high, or only 70 feet short of a quar-
ter of a mile. It is surmounted by a mooring mast
for dirigibles which is itself 205 feet above the
top of the 85 stories in the massive office building.

One of the distinctive features of the architec-
ture are the strips of stainless steel running up the
sides of the building. These will tend to give an
appearance of even greater height, and will make
the tower visible for a long way off as the sun
hits the shining metal and is reflected back.

“The future may fF better or worse.” Calvin
Coolidge.

Another building piercing the skyline of one of
the Jarge cities in America is the 42-story home of
the University of Pittsburgh, now nearing com-
pletion in that city. All departments of the Univer-
sity, whose enrollment is 11,000 annually, will be
housed in this one structure, believed to be the
largest college building in the world.

Heretofore the different schools of the institu-
tion have been scattered over various parts of
Pittsburgh. It has long been the dream of the
founder of the school to have it unified into one
campus, and this great building will do that.

“He started for the South Pole and I started
for the White House—and it gives me supreme
satisfaction to say that I got back twenty
months before he did.”—Al Smith, in introduc-
ing Richard E. Byrd.

Recent reports on the earnings of the various
chain store organizations in the United States for
the first nine months of the year show that no
matter what else the American must have, hee sees
to it that there is always something on his table to
eat every time meal time comes around. Earnings
of the great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company,
better known as the “A. & P.” show earnings to
be over 400 million dollars. This sum is nearly four
times that of any other national organization for
the same period.

But in spite of the tremendous leadership in total
earnings of the A. & P., other chain organizations
are far from being left completely out. The 26
organizations reporting show large returns, with-
out exception, and nine of them show profits of
over 100 million dollars for nine months. This is
in spite of heavy and growing opposition in some
sections of the country.

“I am not bored yet.”—Zaro Agha, 156-year-
old Turk. —

With Sir Thomas Lipton’s ill-fated yacht race
nearly out of the minds of all newspaper readers,
another race much more prosaic but certainly for
bigger stakes, can be noticed. This is the annual
race to land the first boat load of dates—the edible
kind—in New York from their shipping points in
Smyrna and along the Red Sea.

Each. year the various shippers try to get the
first boat load into the New York market in order
to command the best price for the commodity. The
first load generally contains the choicest dates of
the market, and thereby commands the best price.
Within a day after their arrival in New York, they
have been transferred to freight cars and are
headed across the continent to various distributing
points,

For a number of years the Hill Bros. Co. has
been the successful concern in getting their deli-
cacy to the marts of trade first. This year their boat
made the trip from Smyrna in a little. over 26
days, 10 days better than the previous record, The
Hill company, packers of Dromedary dates, offer
an annual bonus to the captain of their vessel who
gets the first load to dock.

were in school at that time. Fortunately,
when water receded from a particular loca-
tion it leaves a sediment behind it. As a:rule
this soil is the richest land for any purpose.
The number of years in the lives of alumni
has decreased; a sediment of love for Dav-
idson still remains. Like a flood over the
river bottom Homecoming Day will increas

the richness of the heart. . f

MUSINGS 9% te
_.MATADOR.

VEREEN Ly) Ve
BELL uum 2eocoaae

This is a love story. Ah, Isn’t it beautiful? Our
heroine is none other than Susie Leventrees the
great cinema staress. The hero is Donald Ricardo
Pedro Lopez Cordo, the leading man in “The
Songs of Sam.” Donald is very much in love with
Susie, who becatise of her love for the stage, told
Donald that she could, never love him but she
would always be a sister to him. He seizes this
advantage and tries to borrow two -bits from her,

calling her “sis.”

She said “No. I shan’t loan you anything. Where
is them two bits I lent you last Lent?”

“But darling, you'll be paid in time.”

“T’'d rather be paid in cash!”

This was a terrible blow to Donald. What would
the folks think? But he was comforted by the
thought that no matter how low the themometer
falls, it’s never vulgar.

“Susie, I know you have a ots of money but I
would be marrying you for love because I love

money.”

“Pll never marry an actor.”

“Well, I guess that means no hits, no runs, no
heiress.” j

“If you'll go to work at something else I might
marry you.”

“I don't know anything else.”

“You could go to school and learn something
else,” said Susie with tears in her eyes.

“How about going to a School of Pharmacy?”
asked Donald, hopefully.

“Ol; I’d just love being a farmer’s wife,” she
answered, with joy*in her voice and, bugs in: her
ears. ‘

“Oh, no. A school of Pharmacy is to train men
for the drug store business.”

“T see. A sort of Sundae School, huh?”

“Well; if you want to call it that. I am going to
take the school work. Are you going to marry
me?”

“Yes, I'll marry you. But then who’s going to
marry me?” Susie was plainly distressed.

“Oh, pshaw, Susie! I’ll marry you, and you'll
marry me. We'll marry each other and the preach-
er will marry both of us. How’s that?”

“That's fine; how are you?”

“Some better thanks; how are you? When are
we going to be. married?” said Donald.

“Let’s both get marreid on the same day. Won't
that be a coincidence?” :

“Suppose the preacher won’t marry both on the
same day. Maybe he hasn’t time to marry but one
of us,’ mused Donald with his pockets in his
pants.

“Oh, goody, I bid to be married first,’ laughed
Susie dancing around the ceiling of the room.

“All right then, selfish. I’m going to Niagara
Falls for my honeymoon. Where are you going
on yours?”

“I’m not going to tell you. Why do you always
pry into other people’s affairs?”

“Well don’t tell me then.”

“Tl tell you what you had better do right
now, though, if I’m not too inquisitive,” said Susie.

“What?”

“You had better go tell Dad and Maw about it
first. They might be glad to hear about it.”

Interlude of a few minutes. Sounds of argument

‘drift lazily from within.

Donald comes back with a leer of dirt upon his
face, «

“Donald,” said Susie, her voice trembling, “did
you sound them out?”

“Yes,” answered Donald Ricardo Pedro Lopez
Cordo (the leading man in the “Songs of Sam”),
“IT sounded them out and your father sounded the
worst.”

“Well, I don’t guess we can get married. I
wanted to go\to the dentist’s anyway tomorrow.”
This from Susie: “And now won’t you join me in
a cup of coffee?”

“You get ‘in first and if there is any more room
I'll join you.”

And thus we leave these two to their own de-
vices. Don’t take any wouldn't nickels,

If the spires of Oxford dream nowadays, their
dreams must be nightmares—John Buchan.

>

In women intelligence, unlike beauty, grows
steadily better with age—William Lyon Phelps.

Yes, the intellectuals always have microscopes
before theit’eyes.—Professor Albert Einstein.

You can get a lot out of life by just looking at
it—Louise Kennedy Mabie. :

THe limits of production will be reached when
every one has all the goods he needs—Henry Ford.

A. highbrow is one educated above his intelli-
gence.—Iver Brown.

Art should not interpret—art should challenge
the times.—Attilo Piccirilli, sculptor.
