THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

|

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must he in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

—_—

Z..5 V. ‘LONG, Jr... ...... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Pets Managing Editor
wy W. pe tba ua .----Managing Editor
VC) (RAGING aes oe. ~..-Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON... .-.-Assignment Editor
Jy: SARE SION cuts Uksosclaudccaccdacudsdnucdee eature Editor
Wi TRC BROWINGD As cdsiccccudoccssncaus -.-Feature Editor
Richie ae AUT) whalcsdbsaavaudccSascoccecasace A te Editor
F. D. MILLER pare, iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A iate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Asst. Bus. Mgr.
peer uDeor pci Mgr.
Solicitor

-Solicitor
Solicitor
solicitor
Solicitor

President
eeee gee Vice-President
~---Secretary-Treasurer
‘ DUNKLIDN

. S. LEA
. SPENCER

Ww.
DWELLE, E. C.

MARCH 20, 1930

DAVIDSONIAN NOMINATIONS
Following are the nominations to be pre-
sented to the Student Body for Editor-in-
Chief of The Davidsonian.
Alderman, P. R. Black, J. B.
McCutchan, J. W. Ragin, W. C.

—————————————
THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Congratulations to the next student body presi-
dent and the two vice-presidents whose elec-
tions have been completed as we go to press. May
their terms be characterized by a greater realiza-
tion of established ideals, and by fine new ac-

complishments for Davidson. And still we vote and

vote. It will last until the middle of April.

Needless to say, most fellows around here
will hail the opening of the diamond season
this afternoon with keen expectation. Every
sport is fine in its season, but baseball surely
has a place all its own. If the Wildcats can
salt that game today into the old win bag,
they will be off to a great start. Oak Ridge is
going to be a tough one, too. Don’t make any
mistake about the athletic prowess of the

Cadets.

For the first time in four or five weks, the “hill”
can settle down to enjoy a normal rest, beginning
Saturday noon. No house parties for this one—
just the campus in springtime. And what more
could.a fellow want?

. — fd
An interesting lecture should be in store for

Davidsonians tomorrow evening. Mr. Bucher is

a globe trotter and student of some renown,

and his illustrated discourse on Central Europe

bids fair to throw a colorful spotlight on that
much discussed and much misunderstood sec-
tion of the world. It’s free as can be.

With debating season in the immediate offing,
we'd like to see the student body show a little bet-
ter support of its forensic representatives than it
has in the years just gone by. Debating is one of
the most difficult of all college activities, and those
who think it dull have a surprise coming, if they
will give themselves half a chance to enjoy it.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle and Ernest Milton re-
turned last night from a prolonged swing
through Davidson alumni strongholds in the
Northeast. Their plan was to put over the best
trip yet, and you can be sure that those two
livewires came very close to accomplishing
their aim.

When this high school track meet comes off,
every man in the college must be on his toes to
meet visiting athletes and introduce them as. best
he can to the real Davidson. Impressions made at
that time will probably exert a big influence in

sending some of those boys on to the Wildcat’s
Lair.

Not many fellows were aware that a celebrity
of other days and of older Wildcat. battles.
"came back to the campus last week to look
ever the old scenes as they remain. Everett
__- Boce was one of Davidson's greatest athletes

se about the good year 1911. He accumulated four
major letters, excelling in haseball and football.

J

Bey, ‘ °
ERS as err reyabe

REVIVE THIS CUSTOM

Few men in the college are maintaining the
fine old custom of calling on members of the
faculty Sunday evenings. It used to be taken

for granted, and every night after church, the:

lines of students could be seen on their trek in
search of an enjoyable half hour or so, In most
cases they got it, and gladly awaited the chance
to renew that pleasant contact. Here of late,
however, the natural habit of calling in town
has gone the way of so many other traditional
actions. We are sorry to see it so, we are sure
that the men are missing a privilege they ought
to enjoy. And, the truth is, the faculty mem-
bers themselves are anxious to have the asso-
ciation ; they welcome the opportunity of meet-
ing the boys in an unofficial capacity.

Every new man at Davidson ought to enter
now into this habit which will return untold
profit to him, and enable him to view the whole
proposition of college life in a different way.
There is no idea of intrusion connected with the
visit, no atmosphere except that of natural
friendship and sincere interest. Because David-
son is a small college, comparatively speaking,
these personal opportunities are made possible,
and thev should be exercised for all thev are
worth. Give it a try Sunday night. Go calling!

BE ORIGINAL—SOPHS!

The proposition of abolishing Soph Day has
heen discussed pro and con for some time. It
is true that the actual value of the activities
brought to light on that famed day has been,
in most cases, practically nil. The Sophomores
have been unable to carry out plans which pro-
vided anything other than situations calling
forth the ridicule of a large part of the student

body, and the effect of Soph Day upon the

freshmen can in no wise be imagined as con-
structive. This opinion is based, of course, upon
the results seen in Soph Days of the past.
Following the beaten path, the Sophomore
Class of the present has gone on record as
favoring the celebration again this spring, and,
to be sure, that is the natural desire of every
second year group. It will continue to be until
general sentiment moves the class in questidn
to abolish the time-worn habit. Now that the
decision is made, the paramount objective of
that class should be the most worthwhile Soph
Day they can possibly execute. They have an-
other chance to show the student body as a
whole that Soph Day can be helpful, not merely
farcical. There is a real challenge for origin-

—ality,—

STATE COLLEGES AND RELIGION

Religion is the most important thing in the
world, One does not have to be obsessed with
a strange, fanatical sort of evangelistic zeal to
make or subscribe to an assertion as broad as
that. He is foolish who would take issue with it.

That being so, religion ought to be para-
mounted in every sphere and field of human
action or aspiration. Especially, we are minded
to observe, ought that to be so in the field of
education. Why it is that in the State concept
of education so little place has been reserved
for religious instruction? The teaching of the
Bible in the public schools is not allowed: that
is, teaching it by means of comment is pro-
hibited. There is still a little incidental, indis-
criminate and usually half-hearted reading of
the Scriptures in the schools, but the law steps
in and raises a club against instruction in spir-
itual life as such instruction can be secured
from the Bible,

The: State-supported colleges are supposed
to put the soft pedal on this instruction, also.

Ex-President Dr. W. O. Thompson, of Ohio
State University, is reported to have said : “The
atmosphere in which a boy is educated counts
for much. I am in no way untrue to State insti-
tutions when I say that in our day a boy might
become a bachelor or master in almost any one
of the best of them and be as ignorant of, the
Bible, the moral and spiritual truth which it
represents and the fundamental principles of
religion, their nature and value ‘to society, as if
he had been educated in a non-Christian coun-
try.” And he added the pertinent question,
“Who is to es this lack if not the Chris-
tain college?”

Is there any valid reason that a State insti-
tution should be less “Christian” in a Christian
civilization and among a Christian people than
the Church college ?—Charlotte News.

|
“Would you object to. a little kissing?”
“You know, Bill, that’s something I have never
done yet.”
“What, kissed?”
“No, objected.”

Professional baseball called him, and he has
been busy at it for some fifteen summers. He
will manage the Greensboro Patriots for the

. Coming season, Get (Doctor ‘Charlie: ‘to ‘tell you «

about him. . BN

IW. MSGUTCHAN

Tales of the Spanish Main were revived when
the S. S. Bucaramanga went down to a fiery and
watery grave. Probably more than a score of pas-
sengers and a few members of the crew met a
roasting death. In the days of pinnaces and fri-
gates there were two disasters equally feared; fire
at sea and a continued calm. Everyone who has
read Robinson Crusoe will recall the graphic pic-
ture of the burning ship. One is of slow duration,
the other presents a lingering torture. There will
be an investigation in the case of the Bucaraman-
ga; a belated justice will probably provide a
scape-goat, for fires do not start themselves. For-
tunately, Capt. Antonio Velez, according to tra-
dition, went down with his boat. It is a noble cus-
tom, but sometimes seems a bit useless.

Last week, the story appeared in a well
known daily of the state that will astound
many readers. A negro, young in age, was sen-
tenced to life imprisonment for the convicted
crime of stealing chickens. It recalls the in-
stance of a somewhat similar enigma in South
Carolina when a prisoner, also colored, was
given three years at hard labor for pilfering
a box of chalk and a Bible from a schoolhouse.
This column does not advocate extensive
leniency to marauders, but it does make an
appeal for comparative equality. Scarface Al
Cap is rel d after a year’s confinement;
Leopold and Loeb are in an asylum; where are
Sinclair andFalls? If a criminal takes a half
cent stamp from a post office he brings down
federal sleuths on his trail for life, but when
caught he does not receive the same penalty
as a wilful embezzler or assassin.

Filipinos are justly enraged at the stubbornness
of the United States. They count themselves to be
thinking people; they want their independence;
eventually they will get it. England was none too
eager to grant freedom to the thirteen colonies.
In fact, it was by the grace of Providence, which
ruled that Great Britain should have her troubles
on the continent, that we ever won the right to
set the Statue of Liberty in New York harbor.
The possibility of thirteen weak and impoverished
federated states developing into a great democracy
was no)mere probable, than is the likelihood of the
pf the Philippines. Many lives might be
a generous consideration on the part
of the-Giited States government. It is true that,
if this should be done, future Filipinos might be
unable to establish a D. A. R., but there remain
the Lions and the Elks.

Astronomers are stirred by the positive an-
nouncement that there is a ninth planet. As yet
it’ is unnamed, but it is exceedingly large in
size, and at a tremendous distance from the
earth and sun. It is remarkable that its dis-
covery was predicted by a famous scientist
who arrived at his conclusion from mathe-
matics several years ago. Who knows but what
there may be many more lurking about in va-
rious corners of the ecliptic? Will it be named
after the Greek and Roman gods, or will it
draw a monnicker from the more usual names
of life? In any event one would draw the con-
clusions that it is just “a great big baby.”

Extremes can be found to exist in almost any con-
dition. Drys have been energetic in their attempt
to introduce an ancient Arab to this country for
the purpose of proving the wondrous effect of total
abstinence on age. Wets, on the other hand, pro-
duce a Russian who is older and who has drunk
large qualtities of vodka every day of his life. It
would appear that both factions are straining a
point. Mohammedans might as well try to estab-
lish the true value of their religion by such an
argument. Several different factors enter into the
reasons for a human’s age, and fanatics should
not resort to the use of syllogisms.

Week-ends come and go with astonishing
regularity, but Junior Speaking comes but once
in the student’s career. The combined effort of
a group of men to put over an endeavor unites
those men closer within their own organiza-
tion. Few citizens understand or realize the
true significance of the inscription placed on
the silver coins of the United States. “E Pluri-
bus Unum” and its principle have heen the
chief causes of the industrial, \political,. and
social success’ of the country. Dumas came
close to it through the words of his immortal
“Three Musketeers,” “One for all, and all for

It was the evening after the night before.

“How did you find yourself this morning?”

“Easy. I just looked under. the table and there
I was.”

)

|

Yep, true to my threat in the last issue, I'm going
to try to get by with the second of the series of arti-
cles about the lives of famous personages. After sort-
ing the list of famous characters and picking out the
most likely looking one, I discarded it entirely and
wrote about the one that I’d planned on all along.
Here 'tis:

SAM THE SITY SLICKER
Foist Spasm
OILY YIFE

Sam started life as a city slicker, being born in this
historical old city of Boston. However, he was run
out of town at a very tender age for calling a train
a “choo-choo” instead of a “masticate-masticate” as
the other Bostonians of the young generation did.
He spent the next few years of his life pounding the
pavements by day and sleeping on a fire-escape by
night. It was a very narrow escape, though, so he
tired of this and entered a Barber’s College. He was
very popular here, and was elected shear leader dur-
ing his last year. While in college, he conceived the
following philosophy of life: “It is better to have
loved a short girl and lost than never.to have loved a
tall.” After ‘he left Barber’s College, he was a cute
little shaver, but he cast his career aside, and became
a nasty old traveling salesman. Thus endeth the read-
ing of the first book.

Second Worse
8 RUDOLPH VASELINO

Sam was always a very thoughtful lad. For exam-
ple, one day as he was traveling around and trying
to peddle his wares, he saw an opportunity to do his
daily good turn. He knocked on a lady's door and
when she came to the door, he up and said, ‘Madam,
your child is badly spoiled.” The lady took a deep
inhale in three counts and turned green around the
gills. “You brute,” quoth she, “I’ll have you know
that our child is not spoiled.” Sam winked impishly
and sniggered, “Well, if you don’t believe me, come
and see what the steam roller did to it.”

Sam then hauled off and buckled down to hard
work. While on his way to the next town, he passed
the farm of prose and rhyme and observed a beauti-
ful maid on her way to work. He stopped and hailed
her. “Hail,” sed he, “how’s the milk maid?” ‘Idiot,”
sed she, “the milk isn’t made. The cow gives it.” Sam
then concluded her little lecture by saying, “You may
be a comfort to your mother, but you're just a wet
blanket to me.” Exit Sam.

Third Pot
HIS LAST DAZE

Sam then went to see a very prosperous farmer and
tried some high pressure salesmanship on him, but
the farmer got him off of the subject and began to
brag about his. strawberries. “Why,” the yokel said,
I raise huge luscious berries that just melt in
your mouth.” “What do you put on them?” asked
Sam, “Fertilizer?” “No,” replied the other, “nothing
but cream and suger.” This wrecked Sam’s life and
he quit his job. He spent his declining years as a
public idle, and became a great frequenter of dance
halls. Once, while he was dawncing with a girl, he
chanced to say, “When I dance with you, J feel as if
I’ve left the earth.’ “You should,” replied the gal,
“you're standing on my feet now.” At this, the scene
rapidly shifted, and we find Sam as a doddering and
disappointed old man. When interviewed for the press,
he was asked, ‘Have any of your childhood hopes ever
been realized?” “Yes,” Sam -replied with a catch in
his voice (you might have known that there’d be a
catch in this somewhere), “when my mother used to
comb my hair, I often wished that I didn’t have any.”

SELAH

A new clerk, dictating a few days ago, was in
doubt as to the use of a certain phrase, so he said
to the stenographer: “Do you retire a loan?”

“No, I sleep with» mamma.”

Now that the college students are. getting young-
er each year, it is almost a certainty that the 1940
Junior Prom will be held on a merry-go-round.

“Is this a first class restaurant?”
“Yes, but if you sit over there in that dark cor-
ner, we'll serve you.” i

She: “I feel like a nice, cool, malted milk. How

about you?”
He: “I dunno. What's a malted milk feel like?”

Johnny, Jr.: “Paw, why was Adam created

‘ first?”
Johnny, Sr.: “To give him a chance to say some-
thing.” Bs

As Brigham Young said, “Give us this day our
daily bride.”

“I’ve rung this door bell an hour, and my girl
won’t answer.”
“Make a noise like an ice-man.”

“This pea soup is full of. sugar.”
“They probably made it out of sweet peas.”
