SPRING GIVE
FOOTBALL BASKETBALL
UNDERWAY : | YOUR BEST
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII : DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 30, 1930 No. 16

Basketball Squad Will
Battle Virginia Schools

V. M. I., Roanoke College, and
V. P. I. Will Be Engaged in
Succession During Week’s
Tour

LINE-UP NOT ANNOUNCED

Monk Younger’s Men in Prime
Condition Following Mid-
Term Rest

Monk Younger and his fast-traveling
Wildcat baskeeters attempt their second
invasion of a neighboring state, when
they go into Virginia for thre games with
Old Diminion institutions. Red Laird and
his Freshmen will also accompany the
varsity on the trip, playing an equal num-
ber of games.

Following a rest of a little over a week
during mid-term examinations, the squad
has come back into action, and two games
haye been played this week. Monday eve-
ning the ‘Charlotte Y was encountered for
a second time, and last night the Mary-
ville College quint was entertained on the
home court. In both melees the work of
the team as a whole was up to its usual
standard. Both opponents had trouble in
breaking up the strong five-man defense
that has been perfected this year, and
which has been giving all opposition a
great deal of trouble.

On the Virginia trip, V. M. I. will be
met at Lexington on Wednesday, Roanoke
College is played Thursday night, and the
trip ends Friday night with an engage-
ment V. P. I. at Blacksburg. This year’s
trip calls for only half as many games
as were played on the Virginia tour last
year. It was found that the team could
not maintain a fast clip for a week at a
time, so only three successive were
carded.

V. M.I. and V. P. I. have not been suc-
cessful against Southern Conference op-
position this year: Neither club has been
able to put a game on the win side of the
ledger so far against the fact competition
they have been forced to meet. In its
first game against an E. I. C. opponent,
V. M. I. lost to N. C. State, last year’s
champions. V, M. I. has also dropped a
game to State, and one to Maryland and
to the University of Virginia.

The rest Carl Pritchett’s leg received
during exams has restored that very
vital limb to something of its former
solidarity. His play has seriously handi-
capped by his bad knee in the games
played, and he was far off form, With his
return to condition, the scoring power of
the Wildcats is greatly enhanced, a fact
that bodes little good for opponents.

(Continued on Page 6)

Freshman Team To
Accompany Varsity

Yearlings Meet Trio of Strong Foes

Coach “Red” Laird’s freshmen basketball
protegees leave the home floor for the first
invasion of foreign territory Tuesday, when
they trek to Virginia to play the frosh
teams of W. & L., Roanoke College, and
V. P. I on successive nights.

Leaving with the varsity on February 4,
the kittens meet the W. & L. frosh, little
brothers of the conference leaders, on Feb-
ruary 5. On the following night, the Roanoke
College frosh are met at Roanoke, and on
the seventh, V. P. I. is met at Blacksburg.

Although no definite information as to
who should make the trip could be learned
the starting five, composed of Pierce, Man-
son, Rogers, Peabody, and Wagner, that
has ‘twice defeated the Charlotte High
cagers, will probably be playing together in
an attempt to keep their defeat sheet clean.

For the second season in succession the’
pany Coach’

freshmen courtmen ac
Younger and his varsity men on their Vir-
ginia trek. The three contests ahead of the
yearlings this time will extend them to the
limit, and a good showing im these games
wilt. establish ‘the, Davidson freshman as
strong contenders for interstate laurels.

Fifty Gridders Out
For Spring Training

Spring fottball practice, the annual train-
ing and development period for Davidson
gridmen, started Monday afternoon Janu-
ary 27. According to Varsity Manager
McLean, about fifty men had been issued
uniforms at that time and several more late
arrivals were expected to draw theirs within
the next few days. Members of the Fresh-
man team of last year will practice with the
varsity as usual,

Coach “Tex” Tilson is again in charge of
this work and will drill his proteges in the
main fundamentals of the grid game. This is
the real testing time of the grid campaign,
for it is during spring practice that the
candidates for the Wildcat eleven really
learn the game in preparation for the next
season.

While Coach “Monk” Younger is busy
with the ’Cat basketeers, Coach “Flake”
Laird will ably assist in the training of the
gridders. Coach Laird has forcefully shown
his ability by the splendid showing which
the Freshman team, under his coaching,
made the past season.

To make the spring period more interest-
ing to all men concerned the squad will be
be divided, as in past years, into two groups:
the Reds and Blacks. These groups will com-
pete with each other during the season and
on several occasions will stage regulation
games on the varsity field.

Y.M.C.A. Forecasts

Prominent Speakers

Tom Glasgow Here Sunday for
Vesper Talk

This coming Sunday at the regular weekly
Vesper Service, the student body will hear
Mr. Tom Glasgow, prominent business man
and leading layman of the Myers Park Pres-
byterian Church, Charlotte, N. C. Mr. Glas-
gow has been a speaker at Davidson regu-
larly every year fot the last six or seven
years, and is considered universally one
of the more popular Vesper Speakers. He
is the brother of ‘Dr. S. M. Glasgow who
conducted the fall evangelistic services.

Negotiations have been made for having
Frank Price, old Davidson man, and worker
in Christian Education in China, whom the
student body supported last year, as a
vesper speaker and visitor to the campus.
Mr. Price is this year on leave, and studying
in the graduate school at Yale.

Mr. Harry Dodge, former Y. M. C. A.
secretary of Indiana and now _ popular
speaker will be with us in March. Mr. Dodge
comes to Charlotte under the auspices of
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and during his
week’s visit will speak at the schools and
churches of that city.

Dr. Ira Landrith, of Chicago, Citizenship
Superintendent of the International Society
of Christian Endeayor and Editor of the
“Christian Endeavor World” will be with
us in March also. Doctor Landrith is a native
of Texas, studied for the law, has been the
president of a college, his church’s chief
executive, during the World War a speaker
at most of the cantonments in the United
States, a prohibition leader, and conscript
dry “Democratic candidate. for the Vice-
Presidency on the Prohibition ticket in
1916. Many of the student body remember
him as the very humorous and _ inspiring
speaker at one of the chapel exercises last
year.

Scabbard and Blade
Hold Rifle Contest

Over the entire United States, contests
in rifle marksmanship are being held by
chapters of Scabbard and Blade. The local
chapter of the Scabbard and Blade frater-
nity is entered’ in this contest along with
other chapters over the country, and Cadet
Captain Johnson is in charge of the matches
at Davidson. As the contests are national
in scope, and since all these men could not
be assembled at any one place and at any
one time, the cont are held at each school,
and the targets are sent there. After the con-

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson College On
The Air

The plan for connecting the Dav-
idson College auditorium with the
radio broadcasting station, WBT, in
Charlotte was submitted by Doctor
Lingle, President, to the executive
committee of the trustees at their
recent meeting. The committee ap-
proved of the plan and referred the
whole question back to the execu-
tive committee of the faculty, as to
the wisdom of putting on such a
program and as to the nature of the
program which was to be broad-
cast. The executive committee of
the faculty has the matter under
consideration and will be ready to
make their report in the near future.

Important Changes Will
Be Made in the Awards
Of Rhodes Scholarships

Each State Will Nominate Candi-
date Every Year—Forms Radi-
cal Departure From Present
System

YOUNGER MEN APPOINTED

United States. Divided Into Eight
Districts by Governing Body

Ever since the Rhodes’ Scholarships were
founded a quarter of a century ago, awards
in the United States have been made by
states. There has for some time been con-
siderable dissatisfaction with this arrange-
ment, with the result that Parliament passed
an act permitting..the Rhodes Trustees to
deviate from the letter of the will in making
several important changes of policy.

Beginning with this year, the states of
the Union will be grouped into eight dis-
tricts of six states each, and the 32 scholar-
ships assigned annually to the United States
will be divided equally among the districts,
making a quota of four scholarships for each
group of six states.

There will be a competition in every state
every year, Each state committee of selection
will nominate from the candidates applying
to it the two best men to appear before the
district committee. The district committee
will then select from the twelve candidates
nominated four men who will represent their
respective states as Rhodes Scholars at Ox-
fords.

The following are the eight groups of
states: New England, ~Middle Atlantic,
South, Great Lakes, Middle West, Gulf,
Southwest and Northwest. Although David-
son draws students from,at least four of
these groups, the one of immediate con-
cern is the Southern Group: Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Tennessee. Four will be elected from this
group each year. The total number of awards
for the whole country will remain as at
present, thirty-two. One great advantage of
the scheme is that every state can compete
every year. Under the old plan, Virginia
men were ineligible last year, and North
Carolina’ would have been excluded next
year.

Another radical change is that scholars
may, instead of taking their third year at
Oxford immediately after the second, be

(Continued on page 6)

Wrestling Schedule
VARSITY
Feb. 1—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Feb. 8—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 12—Carolina ‘at Davidson.
Feb. 15—Duke at Davidson.
| Feb. 22—Army at West Point.
Feb. 24—University of Virginia at
Charlottesville.
FRESH
Jan. 31—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
Feb. 5—Barium Springs at DP. C.
Feb. 14—Barium Springs at Barium.

!

Dirigible Passes
Over Town Sunday

The U. S. Navy dirigible “Los Angeles,”
on a test flight from its hangar at Lake-
hurst, N. J., to St. Augustine, Fla., and
back, passed over Davidson Sunday after-
noon at about 2:30 o'clock.

As the throbbing motors were hear,
practically a]l students then present on the
campus, turned out to view the famous
dirigible. It was indeed an inspiring sight
to see this silvery giant floating lazily
along. The “Los Angeles” bore the ap-
pearance of a mammoth’ cigar, and the
under side had evidently been patched
and repatched many times, as was ob-
served from the numerous seams.

The “Los Angeles” is an important part
of the United States Navy, and is com-
paratively larger than any of the many
other dirigibles at the Lakehurst station.
It is reported that it is now in preparation
for a trip across the Atlantic.

Those in command of the ship evi-
dently desired to see something of North
Carolina, for the dirigible, after making
its appearance in the eastern section of
the state near Raleigh, then proceeded to
fly westward toward Charlotte, passing

(Continued on page 6)

Rifle Team Begins

Years Competition

Shoulder-to-Shoulder Matches Be-
ing Arranged for Marksmen

The Davidson Rifle team began firing on
the first of its Correspondence Matches this
week, These matches will be fired every
week until March 22. The scores are fired
on the Davidson range and the results mailed
to the competing schools. Matches are sche-
duled with teams all over the country. The
rifle team last season won over half of its
matches and made a good showing in the
national competition. With practically the
same team back this year an excellent sea-
son is expected,

Members of the squad have been firing
for the last month for the rifle trophy and
the final scores in this competition will be
announced at an early date. This trophy is
in the form of a shield that is hung in the
armory and the name of the winner is en-
graved upon it each year.

Matches fired this week with the
University of Alabama, University of Wyo-
ming, Emory University, Oklahoma A. &
M. College, and Iowa State College. The

were

results of these matches will be known
sometime next week.
While the schedule for shoulder-to-

shoulder matches has not been completed
several are pending. In these matches the
team will fire once at the opposing school and
once at Davidson. Among the schools being
lined up for these matches are Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and Wofford College.

&

Davidson “Y” Squad
Begins Cage Season

The Davidson “Y” basketball team has
begun its organization for the season of
1930 according to a report from W. G.
McGavock, captain. This famous quintet first
went into action last year. During that sea-
son a record of four wins out of seven games
played was made.

The probable line-up will include D. K.
Miller, Don King, W. G. McGavock, Cal-
houn, Heefner, Smith, and Montgomery, V.
A. Milton, last year’s manager, has resigned
to become Freshman manager and his posi-
tion is thus far unfilled.

Negotiations have been made for quite a
few games this year, among them games
with Greensboro “Y,” Kannapolis “¥.,”” Win-
throp “All-stars,” China Grove “Y,” Lincol-
ton, Huntersville, and probably High Point
and Asheville High School.

The “Y” team of last season provided an
interesting feature for the athletic program
aside from varsity’ sports. It took several
trips to foreign courts, and in every con-
test showed its mettle. With the exception
of Gilmour, captain last year, the squad is
intact for the coming schedule of games.

“Service” Was Theme of
Sunday Vesper Program

Special Music of Negro Spirituals
Given by Colored Quintet From
University in Charlotte

LIFE WORK DISCUSSED

Lawrence and McClure Stress
Characteristics Needed in Suc-
cessful Work

“Service” was the main theme at the
Vesper Service Sunday evening, January 26,
sponsored by the “Ministerial Band.” Bruce
Peabody and Riley Powell led in prayer
and De Wolf Miller read the Scripture pas-
sages. A colored quintet from the Johnson
C. Smith University in Charlotte, N. C.,,
rendered some very fine special music in the
form of several old negro spirituals.

Cecil Lawrence spoke on service, especial-
ly to our fellow man and to God. “Many of
us today,” said, “are uncertain as to
what line of work to take*up and are having
a great deal of difficulty in deciding what
we are best fitted to do. God has a plan for
each one of our lives, that only we can fit
into, and if we fail to do so no one else can
take our place. Many of us are liable to
start out to serve in the wrong way as did
Saul of Tarsus. But later when Saul found
out his: mistake he completely surrendered
his life to God. And because he threw his
whole soul into the right channel Paul is
remembered as one of the greatest servants
of mankind in all time.

he

“Tf we would find the work set apart for
us, we must surrender our lives entirely to
God, pray to Him, and then the answer will
come. Woodrow Wilson would probably
never have been the success he was if he
had not responded to the call he seemed to
feel to leave his law business and go out to
teach young men—the job God had planned
for him. It may seem at first that it will
cost us much, but we should look. upon this
as our gift not our loss.

Albert McClure brought out the char-
acteristics needed in service for success. “The
first of these,” he said, “is vision. The in-
centive the farmer has, when he plants the
seed in the spring, is the fragrance of the
rose or the waving fields of grain he knows
will result. We must have high ambitions
and great vision if we would be successful
servants. A famous preacher was walking
by the place where a cathedral was in con-

(Continued on page 6)

Senior Festival
To Be Brilliant

Plans for Affair Nearing Completion

Plans for the Senior Party, postponed
from February 22 to March 1, are going for-
ward rapidly, according to reports from
members of the faculty committees and Pres-
ident W. B. McGuire of the Senior Class.
By the time stated everything will be in
readiness for the greatest entertainment yet
given to a class at Davidson.

The program arranged for Saturday evn-
ing of March first is said to be a varied one,
embracing many attractive features, and
Seniors may be assured of a memorable
reception on this occasion, which will proba-:
bly become. established custom in years to
come. The auditorium and banquet hall of
Chambers Building will supply the setting
for the festivities at which Senior is King
for a night.

Cecil Lawrence, head of the Senior Com-
mittee to secure rooms for guests on that —
week-end, will appreciate immediate notifi-
cation as to names of girls expected by Sen-
iors, so that he will be enabled to locate
them in faculty homes at once, and McGuire
urges all men who have not invited girls to
Davidson as their guests to take advantage
of this opportunity and do their part toward
making the Senior Party. a gala affair.

The faculty’s splendid entertainment last
February was appreciated immensely by the
Senior Class of that year, and it marked a
new step in social life for Davidson. The
reception this spring bids fair to outdo its
predecessor ih brilliance and. general good

cation.

fellowship, at least that is the present, indi- ,

|
