BASEBALL TEAM | 7A SOPHOMORES
IN STAGE BANQUET
FIRST WORKOUTS SATURDAY NIGHT
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 6, 1830 No. 20

Sigma Phi Fpsilon Plans
Installation of Chapter
On Campus During April

Efforts of Pyramid Club Crowned
With Success After Five Years’
Strenuous Endeavor

CLUB FOUNDED IN 1923

Constitutes Fourth Chapter to be
Organized in North Carolina ‘

The Pyramid Club, local social fraternity,
has been granted a charter by the Sigma
Phi Epsilon Fraternity, after petitioning this
fraternity for a period of almost five years.
The chapter will be officially installed April
3, 4, and 5, the week-end after the regular
spring holidays of the college. The installa-
tion team will be compesed of officers and
members of the chapters of Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon in North Carolina.

In December, 1923, Dr. T. W. Lingle
conferred with friends in the student body
relative to organizing a local fraternity,
which would meet with the approvalyof the
faculty and the other fraternities in its per-
sonnel and methods of working. With the
help of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, a group of nine
men were selected for this organization.
The men who thus founded the Pyramid
Club were: W. H. Cromwell, Jr., J. M.
Trotter, W. A. McAuley, M. R. Patrick,
H. M. Alexander, H. D. Burke, J. J. Earn-
hardt, H. C. Lawson, and E. D. Wither-
spoon.

On October 15, 1925, the first letter was
sent to the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity in
regards to placing a chapter at Davidson.
The members of the Club have worked
toward this goal and in April, 1929, a formal
petition was issued. This has been under the
consideration of the national fraternity and
they have given their favorable decision
within the past few days.

At present there are thirty-seven men in
the Alumni Association of the Pyramid
Club. The active members of the Club are:
C. H. Pettus, Jr., Asheville, N. C.; S. C.
Booker, Clayton, N. C.; E. C. Close, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.; J. F. McInnis, Concord,
N. C.; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C.; F. R.
Pilcher, Jr.; Charleston, W. Va.; C. W.
Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va.; W. A.
Howard, Raeford, N. C.; F. L. Wilson, Mon-
treat, N. C.; E: S. Bettis, Morristown,
Tenn.; N. B. Nicks, Chattanooga, Ten.; R.
P. Davis, Lancaster, S. C.; W. M. Belk,
Lancaster,’S. C.; C. E. Bettis, Morristown,
Tenn.; C. M. Howard, Raeford, N. C.; J.
W. Lee, Ronceverte, W. Va.; H. L. Mor-
rison, Mooresville, N. C.; C. B. Moseley,
Staunton, Va.; A. Patton, Jr., Greenville,
S. C.; J. W. Reich, Elkin, N. C.; E. W.
Shackelford, Durham, N. C.

The Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity was
founded at Richmond College (now the Uni-

(Continued on page 6)

McAllister Carson
Is Vesper Speaker

Mr. McAllister Carson gave a very inter-
esting and instructive talk at the Y. M. C. A.
Vesper Service last Sunday evening. Mr.
Carson is a business man and he gave a
simple practical discourse addressed directly
to students. He took as his subject the
answer to the first question in the Westmin-
ster Shorter Catechism: ‘Man’s chief aim is
to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.”

The speaker told of his conversation with
Dr. Harry Rimmer on the night after he
spoke here the first time. Some felt, accord-
ing to Mr. Carson, that Doctor Rimmer
would be undertaking too much to come to
Davidson the following Sunday as it would
necessitate his speaking five times that day.
Doctor Rimmer, however, was anxious to
come ‘is he was very favorably impressed
with Davidson.

During his talk Mr. Carson showed how
a man in college can glorify God in his
daily life. He stated that everything in a
student’s college life is useful in preparing
him for his life work. Not only his scholastic
work but also work on the gridiron, diamond,
track, literary publications, and in other col-
lege activities, help to fit him for his chosen
vocation.

There are four types ef students who come
to Davidson, said Mr. Carson. These four
groups are divided in those who have chosen
their life work before coming to college,
those who have not chosen it but do so after
getting into college, those who have a life
work chosen but decide to change it after
having been in college a while, and lastly
the group which have not chosen their voca-
tion and who do not choose one while in
college. Of this last group he said he hoped
and believed there are very few.

Mr. Carson stated that he became alarmed
a few years ago when he heard that condi-
tions were crowded in Davidson and sent in
an application for each of his two sons—in
the class of about ’41 and '44. This shows
strikingly his faith and interest in Davidson.

Stressing the importance of not waiting
till after graduation to start glorifying God,
he emphasized that each man has an oppor-
tunity of advancing toward “man’s chief aim”
in every branch of his college life.

J. A. Jones presided at the service and
introduced the speaker.

Three Sophomores

Placed As Debaters

Eighteen Men Take Part in Tryouts
Faculty Judges

Tryouts for the varsity debating team were
held in Shearer Hall on the evening of
February 26, with eighteen men contending
for positions. The following men were se-
lected to represent Davidson this season in
the scheduled contests: R. M. Christian, of
Mobile, Ala.; Carl Pritchett, Reidsville; E.
D. Kuykendall, Jr., Greensboro; J. A. Jones;
Laurinburg; William Rule, Knoxville,
Tenn.; and P. S. Knox, Jr., of Thomson, Ga.
The alternates chosen were: Z. V. Long, Jr.,
Statesville; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington,
D. C.; and E. E. Marsh, Jr., of Marshville.

Christian and Pritchett, of the Senior
Class, are the only two veteran debaters to
win posts on this year’s team. Both of these
men have represented Davidson on the plat-
form for two years. The other four men
are making their initial appearance on the
varsity team. Kuykendall, Rule, and Knox
are sophomore$, and were all members of
last year’s freshman team. Jones is a mem-
ber of the junior class. The six men chosen
will comprise three teams, but they have
not yet been paired.

The judges at the tryouts were Profs.
C. K. Brown, A. Currie, H. B. Arbuckle,
W. P. Cumming, and L. B. Schenck.

Among the institutions to be met by the
Davidson teams this season are Emory Unj-
versity, The University of Alabama, Bir-
mingham Southern College, The University
of Florida, Richmond College, William and
Mary College, Wake Forest College, and the
University of South Carolina.

Soph Week-End
Program

Davidson will experience some-
thing new in the way of class fes-
tivities this week-end when the
Sophomore Class entertains the
first house party instead ofthe cus-
tomary banquet. The Class of °32
will have a banquet, however, and
after this banquet there will be a
minstrel. The members of the class
and their girls are invited to attend
this festival.

2:00 P. M.—Football game—Rich-
ardson Field.

4:00 P. M.—Picture Show—“Lord
Byron of Broadway.”

7:00 P. M—Banquet — Banquet
Hall of/ Chambers.

8:30 P. M.—Minstrel—Chambers
Auditorium.

Colonel Scott Selected
Commander Of Summer

Advanced R.0.T.C.Camp

Men to be Instructed in Athletics as
Well as in Military Exercises

CAPT. OTTO ALSO TO GO

Twenty-Five Davidson Students
Taking Advanced R. O. T. C. to
Attend

Lietut.-Col. W. R. Scott, of Davidson, has
been elected commander of the R. O. T. C.
camp at Forth McClellan, Ala., for this
summer. This camp will have enrolled about
900 advanced R. O. T. C. students from
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana,
and Tennessee. The period of instruction
lasts from June 10 until July 21, but Colonel
Scott and Captain Otto will go down a week
in advance.

Twenty-five Davidson students taking ad-
vanced R. O, T. C. will attend this summer
camp. Upon arrival each man will undergo
a thorough physical examination, and is then
instructed in calistenics, first aid and hygiene,
army administration, drill and command,
scouting and patrolling, combat principles,
and marksmanship with rifles, machine-guns,
mortars, automatic rifles, «and small cannon.
The Military exercises will occupy the morn-
ings while the afternoons will be devoted
to athletics such as baseball, tennis, swim-
ming, and boxing. In the evenings some
social event in town usually engages the
students. On Sunday church is held at 10
a. m.

(Continued on page 8)

President Of Queens College
To Be Vesper Speaker Sunday

Special Music Will be Given by
Queens Girls

Another of the high spots of the Y. M.
C. A. Vesper services comes Sunday even-
ing, at which time Dr. W. H. Frazer, presi-
dent of Queens College, will speak to the
student body in the auditorium at 6:00 p. m.

Doctor ' Frazer is bringing through the
courtesy of Miss Starr of the Music depart-
ment of Queens, some of the Queens girls
who will offer a special musical number.

Practically, every year Doctor Frazer
comes to Davidson under the auspices of the
“Y” and has proved to be one of the most
popular speakers of the year. Full of fun
and humour he is in very great demand
throughout this section as an after-dinner
speaker. Doctor Frazer has made a close
study of the negro in the South and is
famous as collector and publisher of many
stories of the Southern darky.

A native of Alabama, he received his col-
lege and divinity training at Southwestern,
located formerly at Clarksville, Tenn. Since
that time, Doctor Frazer has been pastor of
prominent churches in Alabama, and of the
First Presbyterian Ghurch of Anderson,
South Carolina.

Junior Program To

Feature S.C. Follies

The plans for Junior Speaking are now
complete, and a great week-end is expected.
The gym will be decorated like a real cabaret,
and with the South Carolina Co-eds per-
forming, and great music by the Davidson
orchestra, one will think that he is right on
Broadway.

The cabaret is scheduled for six o'clock,
coming right after the football of the after-
noon; a regular dinner will be served along
with the above entertainment, so make your
reservations early. ‘

Plans for the minstrel, which will follow
the cabaret dinner, are underway and prom-
ise to be good as the best talent in school
has been picked to be in it, including the
banjo playing of Caligan, the crooning of
Enochs, Pardington, and Pridgen. The or-
chestra will work along with the minstrel,
furnishing all the music.

It is the earnest hope of the Junior class
that every man in the student body has
asked a girl to share these good times with

(Continued on Page 5)

Cummings Reviews
Literary Magazine

The February issue of the “Chameleon”
maintains a high general level in quality of
content. Less than usual with a college lit-
erary magazine does the reviewer have’ to
take as his guide the words of Browning’s
“Saul”:

“.. . ‘tis not what man does which exalts
him, but what man would do.”

It possesses at least one play and one
short story of genuinely high merit, and
others of intrinsic value. While the format
of the magazine is new and pleasing, the
number of typographical errors and grama-
tical solecisms in the articles themselves give
a distasteful impression to the meticulous
reader. In such matters a literary magazine
should be like Caesar's wife.

For originality, excellence of character
portrayal, and power of dramatic suspense,
R. F. Jarratt’s three-act play, “At the End
of the Road,” wins easy pre-eminence, Fred
Johnson, the mulatto who has successfully
concealed the stigma of his blood and Mat-
tie Carlton, who revenges his neglect of her
by betraying his identify, and the other
characters in the play, have life and tragic
reality ; the impression of inevitable and well-
motivated catastrophe is excellently devel-
oped.

For pure artistry and finesse of wording,
R. A. Rowland’s “Rendezvous by Moonlight”
deserves its place of distinction at the be-
genning of the magazine. This dreamy love
story snatched from the edacious tooth of
the obsctiring past reminds one by its beauty
of phrasing and pictorial power of that
masterpiece of Keats:

“And there are gone; ay, ages long ago
These lovers fled away into the storm.”
The most fecund contributor to this num-

ber of the “Chameleon” is R. E. Witt. His
writings on the whole show promise rather
than fulfilment. Ability is evident; versatility
of literary ppower and innate artistry are
present in “Ethical Crime,” “Live Hair,”
and the poem “Sorrow.” The first story is
a closely knit and excellent study of psy-
chological realism after the manner of Dos-
toievsky. While the first half of the second
story is well motivated, the story rambles
on into the second generation and toward
the end sounds like the synopsis of a novel.
There is not enough unity in,-the narrative
for the rigid specifications required by such
a short story. The writer has constructed a
plot which requires fuller development than
he gave it, or treatment in a different man-
(Continued on Page 5)

Converse Glee Club

Gives Performance

Girls Score Big Hit With Davidson
Students

On Friday night, February 28, the Con-
verse College Glee Club, under the director-
ship of Glenn C. Stables, presented one of
the most enjoybale concerts that has been
given in the New Chambers Auditorium.
The largest crowd that has ever attended
a performance of this nature was present,
and that they enjoyed and appreciated the
music was shown by the vigorous applause,
to which the Glee Club and individual solo-
ist responded generously with encore num-
bers.

The program, consisting of Glee Club
numbers, solos, a duet, and one instrumental
number, was attractively arranged and var-
ied. The beautiful numbers rendered by the
Glee Club showed considerable work, as
did the rest of the program. Perhaps the
most enjoyed part of the program, was con-
tributed by Miss Amelia Bruns, soloist, who
sang several classical numbers, after which
she sang many popular numbers of the day.
Again and again she was encored, to which
she smilingly responded with popular num-
bers. Aside from possessing a very appealing
voice which. stirred the audience noticeably,
her whole being radiated with a most charm-
ing personality.

Other especially attractive parts of the
program were the duet by Miss Bruns cand
Mr.. Stables, and several violin numbers by
Miss Mary Lou Kirby.

As a whole, the performance proved to

(Continued on page 6)

Geo. McClenaghan Made
Cheer Leader For Next
Season Over McAlister

New Cheer Leader Will Take Over
Duties at Once With Beginning of
Baseball

E. S. HEEFNER RETIMES

Office Carries With it Many Re-
sponsibilities and Important
Duties
George E. MacClenaghan, Jr., of the Jun-
ior class, was elected varsity cheer leader
for the school year 1930-31 at an election
held in Chapel last Tuesday morning. He
received a good majority of the 482 votes
cast. MacClenaghan was elected over H. M.
MacAlister, the other Junior assistant cheer

leaders

Among other activities, MacClenaghan is
an assistant manager of the Varsity Wrest-
ling Team, assistant manager of the Chame-
leon, and a member of the Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. MacAllister is a member
of the International Relations Club and the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

The new cheer leader will take over his
duties with the start of the baseball season.
It is customary each year to elect two Junior
assistant cheer leaders from the Sophomore
aspirants to the office. These will be selected
at an early date. Uusually these Sophomores
have had previous experience in leading
cheers at various freshman athletic contests.

The election was run off by E. S. Heef- |
ner, retiring cheer leader. There was an un-
usually large vate cast, 482 students making
a choice one way or the other.

(Continued from Page 5)

Davidson Marksmen Are

Victors In V.‘P. I. Match

The Davidson Rifle Team barely nosed
out the team from Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute in a close and interesting shoulder-to-
shoulder match held here on last Saturday.
The final count stood Davidson 869, V. P. I.
866. Until the last round was fired the score
was itt doubt and only excellent shooting on
the standing position by the last group of
Davidson Riflemen save the day.

R. D. Russell, of Davidson, led the way
and was high scorer of the day with a score
of 180 out of a possible 200. He was pushed
by Washam of V. P. I., who turned in 174.
Washam shot the highest score turned in on
the hardest position, the standing, a 45 out
of a possible 50. Parsons of V. P. I., was the
only man to shoot a “possible” or 50 out of
50. He shot this score on the prone position.
The five high men on each team who counted
in the scoring were:

Prone Sitting Kneel- Stand-

Wi, 12), Uf. ing ing Total
Washam _-_49 46 37 45 177
Waddell _-49 45 44 35 173
Davis -..--- 48 46 39 41 174
Parsons ---50 46 41 36 173
Carper ----48 46 41 34 169

Total es es es ee eee 866

(Continued on page 6)

To the Faculty and
Their Wives

One hundred and three members
of the Senior Class feel that to you,
we owe the appreciation for one of
the most enjoyable ‘week-ends ever
spent in our years at Davidson. Be-
cause it is not possible for every
senior to express his appreciation
individually, we wish to take this
means of letting you know that we
shall: always remember the events
of the past week as one of the last-
ing memories of the days spent in
college. With every detail so per-
fectly taken care of, and a program
arranged so that it was wonderfully
entertaining from beginning to end,
we cannot fail to see the work it
necessitated. With a feeling of sin-
cere appreciation, we thank you.

Class of °30.

t

