THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

Six Alumni Meetings In

Two States Are Planned

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett Will
Speak Before Alumni in
Florida and Georgia

Davidson College alumni in a number of
Georgia and Florida points will have the
opportunity of hearing Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, director of athletics and physical

’ education at Davidson, according to Ernest
Milton, alumni secretary. Authorities of the
college are sending Captain Pritchett to
Florida for a tour in the interest of the in-
stitution, and it has been agreed that he could
also spend a part of his time in Georgia in
order to attend local alumni chapter meet-
ings. :

Unless the proposed itinerary for the pop-
ular director of athletics goes awry, he will
meet with Davidson men in Rome, Atlanta
,and Thomasville, Ga., and from that point
will gather with the alumni in Jacksonville,
Orlando and Tampa. Organized chapters
already exist at every city named with the
exception of Rome, and at this city he will
be informally entertained by the Davidson
alumni of that section. The advisability of a
permanent chapter will probably come up for
consideration when the Davidson former stu-
dents gather at Rome.

The cities named are the centralized units
of those two states. The Rome meeting
would include the Davidson men in northern
Georgia who would not be available for the
Atlanta gathering. Atlanta contains almost
seventy-five alumni alone, while approxi-
mately 50 more will be available nearby.
Thomasville, Ga., embraces southern Georgia
and northern Florida. Jacksonville draws
from the northeastern part of Florida, Or-
lando the central section, and ‘Tampa _ the
southwestern part of the peninsula.

Letters have been written by the alumni
secretary to individuals at all of the points
named anent the proposed meetings, and at
the time that “The Davidsonian” went to
press, favorable reports had been received
from three of them. The itinerary, as mapped
out by the alumni secretary ta co-incide with
Captain Pritchett’s business in Florida would
have the gatherings as follows /

February 13, Rome, Ga.

February 14, Atlanta, Ga.

February 17, Thomasville, Ga.

February 20, Jacksonville, Fla.

February 21, Orlanda, Fla.

February 24, Tampa, Fla.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. J. B. White, ’10

Dr. John Bonar White, graduate of David-
son in the class of 1910, died at his home in
Atlanta, Ga., early Thursday morning, Jan-
uary 23. Newspaper dispatches gave no im-
mediate cause of his death.

This Davidson alumnus was regarded as
one of Atlanta’s most prominent medical
men, being physician for Georgia Tech, and
on the staffs of the Georgia Baptist Hospital
and-Fischer Sanatarium. He was a member
of the Fulton County Medical Society and
the American Medical Association, and was
connected with medical societies throughout
the country.

After graduating from Davidson, Doctor
White did postgraduate work: at a number
of institutions, including Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, the University of Chicago and the
University of Virginia. He was a veteran
of the World War, having served for a time
as a lietuenant in the Medical Corps in the
Walter Reed Hospital. He is a former presi-

.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

W. L. Roddy, ’21, of Rock Hill, S. C., has
been elected president of the First Trust &
Savings Bank of Due West, S. C. Although
president of a bank in another city, Mr.
Roddey will continue to reside in Rock Hill.

John L. Payne, '16, has been chosen presi-
dent of the Sunday School Superintendents’
Association in Charlotte. Mr. Payne is super-
intendent of the Myers Park Presbyterian
Sunday School. .

B. W. Romefelt, ’21, who last spring went
to New York to accept a position with the
Chase National Bank, has been elected a
vice-president of that concern. Mr. Romefelt
resides at Scarsdale BN. Y.

Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte, honorary
alumnus of Davidson, has been chosen as oné
of the lecturers for the Duke University
Medical School. He has also been recently
selected as president of the State Urological
Society of North Carolina.

Hon. Robt. L. Ryburn, ’83, known as the
dean of the Shelby bar, has been elected
president of the Cleveland County Bar As-
sociation. He succeeds Goy. O. Max Gardner
in this capacity.

Rey. Geo. I. Robertson, D.D., °78, of
Mount Holly, was recently hit by an auto-
mobile in Charlotte, but suffered only minor
injuries.

M. L. (Pat) Crawford, '29, is playing
basketball with the Cheraw (S. C.) All-
Stars, and in a recent game against. the}:
Hartsville (S. C.) All-Stars, scored 21

points. He was declared to be the outstand-
ing feature in the news reports.

Vance Huneycutt, ‘29, was recently ten-
dered and accepted the position as secretary
of the Merchants Association at Albemarle.

dent of the Atlanta Alumni Association

chapter.

Besides his wife and mother he is survived
by Andrew W. White, 12, of Charlotte.

S. H. Askew, ’20

Samuel Horton Askew, graduate of David-
son in the class of 1920, died in a hospital in
Rome, Ga., Friday, January 3rd, following
an appendicitis operation, from which com-
plications developed. His death came rather
unexpectedly and was a shock to his many
friends in the alumni body, as well as to
those friendships he had developed as a
teacher in the Darlington School for Boys
at ‘Rome.

Immediately after his graduation frorr
Davidson Mr. Askew became connected wit
he Darlington School, and except for 2
temporary leave of absence, while he wa:
studying at the University of North Caro-
lina, he was constantly a teacher in that
institution. He had showed remarkable prom-
ise of being a valuable educator in the south-
land, and his loss will be keenly felt over a
wide circle.

Mr. Askew was-a loyal alumnus of David-
son, and showed his regard for his Alma
Mater in many different ways. He was a
frequent visitor to the campus, returning for
every important event whenever possible, and
when he could not be here, he would always
write and express his regrets. A wife and
one child survive.

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

“SODA”

A Complete Drug Store
in a Good Town—
Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO.

:* “SUNDRIES”

Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11, of Winston-Salem,
has been made a vice-president of the Y. M.
C. A. there. Mr..Coan is also mayor of that
city. His administration is constantly re-
ceiving favorable comment on the editorial
pages of the Winston-Salem papers.

Query Pharr, ‘13, and Mrs. Pharr, of
Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter
on January 17.

A. L. Bowers, Jr., '28, is a stockholder in
the new corporation, Bowers Brothers Com-
pany, of Washington, N. C.

Rev. Claude McIntosh, ’26, is now pastor
of the Irving Place Presbyterian Church at
Tulsa, Okla., making the change from New
Brooklyn, S. C.

Angle-Blackford Company, of Greensboro,
of which Chas. W. Angle, ‘18, is president,
were recently awarded two contracts that
totaled one million dollars.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths

New Addresses

P. P. Thrower, '28, Louisville Presbyter-
ian Seminary, Louisville, Ky.

T. EE. Gray, '25, care Missouri State Life
Insurance Co., 416 Professional Bldg., Jack-
sonville, Fla.

Prof. A. L. Bramlett, ‘11,
sity, Upland, Ind.

Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, Pineville.
P. J. Garrison, 949 S. Second St., Louis-
ville, Ky.

Taylor Univer-

of Mrs, J. L. Campbell, mother of Dr. J. I.
Campbell, 1900, of Norwood; of Miss Ida
M. Pharr, sister of H. N. Pharr, ’87, of
Charlotte; of Mrs. Julia D. Strohecker,
sister of Baxter Davidson, ’80, of Charlotte,
and of Capt. J. P. Lovelace, father of Logan
Lovelace, '26, of High Point.

Rev. Edgar Woods, ’19, Union Theologi-
cal Seminary, Richmond, Va.

John Bouvier, ’26, care Institute for Re-
search in Land Economics, 337 E. Chicago
Ave., Chicago, Ill.

S. W. Brown, Jr., '26, 136 Dalzell St.,
Shreveport, La.

Rev. F. V. Long, '21, Harlinger, Texas.

Rev. A. C. Ray, Jr., ’25, Era, Va.

Rev. T. H. Spence, Jr., '20, 3415 94th St.,
Jackson, N. Y.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, '81, care Mrs.
Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro. N. C.

Rev. W. M. Baker, ’09, Mebane.

J. R. Earnest, ’25, Commercial Credit .Co,,
Roanoke, Va.

Rev. A. R.
Ga.

Rev. W. W. Moore, 22, China Inland
Mission, Auhking, Auhwei, China.

Albert Lyons, Jr., ’26, Commercial Credit
Co., 308 E. Tenn. Nat'l Bank Bldg., Knox-
ville, Tenn.

Howland, ’15, Gabbetsville,

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at
Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N..C.

iA

Lid 3
aS Y

WAN VN

ulate

AI

cada.

...and a Telephone man
brought them together

search

and more useful.

An exampie is the classified telephone di-
rectory, with its convenient listings by trade

In the Bell System re-
and development
are not confined to engi-
neering laboratory. These
methods are applied also to
the commercial side of the
business, to make telephone service more

developed a plan

-and profession, for quick and easy reference. _
Or take this other use of the classified
directory. Telephone men analyzed advertis-
ing and merchandising. They saw that pros-
pective purchasers of advertised products
often did not know where to buy them. They

for listing these dealers

under their brand name in local ‘‘Where to

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones : esi

Buy It” directories—a
buyer and seller alike.

genuine service to

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
