HEAR PROF.
FOREMAN AT
“Y” VESPERS

‘The Davidsonian

‘“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

KEEP BEHIND
THOSE
WILDCATS

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

No. 3

Davidion Wildcats Lose

to State Wolf Pack in
Greensboro Night Game

Sensational Comeback Made in Second
Half Comes Too Late to Change
Result

’CATS PUZZLED BY SHIFT

North Carolina State Comes Through
Victorious in First Game

Displaying a fast and tricky style of play,
North Carolina State was able to pile up
enough points in the first half to beat the David-
son Wildcats last Saturday night in Greens-
boro,

This was the first game of the season’ for
the N. C. State Wolfpack and their first ap-
pearance under the direction of Coach John
P. “Clipper” Smith, former all-American at
Notre Dame. During the first part of the game,
the brilliant shift, which has characterized the
Notre Dame style of football for many years,
was a complete puzzle to the Wildcats. State
was able: to plow through the line at will, and
scored two touchdowns in the first quarter. They
scored one more in the second period and their
scoring was over for the night. Wilson and
Cumisky were outstanding on the offense, while
Gurneau stood out on the defense for State.
None of the trys for points after touchdowns
were successful.

At the beginning of the second half the Wild-
cat team started a drive which completely out-
classed State for the remainder of the game. It
was a straight «hard drive for the goal line
which netted them their first touchdown. The
drive was the result of persistent attempts at
the line, and the brilliant play of two Wildcats,
Bruce Peabody and Buddy Gardner. © Gardner,
after assuming his old duties in the line, was
in every play. Time after time he messed up
what promised to be a long run for State. Pea-
body returned punt after punt for consistent
gains. He was also excellent on the’ defense.

In the statistics of the game, N. C. State was
completely in the lead. They gained more
ground, punted further, and passed more ac-
curately. However, in first downs the two teams
were equal.

If each half were counted separately from
any point of view the game would have been
a tie. State had complete mastery of the sit-
uation in the first half. Davidson, just as sure-
ly, had the upper hand in the last half.

State Pos. Davidson
Gurneau IEP, Raker
Cobb (c) | Gs 8 Whitfield
Duke L.G. Mathis
Espey Center McConnell
Lefcourt R.G. Conway
A. Wilson R.T. Wagner
Greason RE. Brown
McQuage Q.B. King
D. Wilson L.H. Pearce
Dellinger R.H Gardner
Cumisky F.B. MacQueen
Davidson, 22 ee ee 0 0 0 7—7
State; 2s ee 12 6 0 0—18

Touchdowns—State : Dellinger, D. Wilson,
Cumisky. Davidson: MacQueen. Point after
touchdown, King (place-kick). Officials—Ref-

(Continued on page 6)

Allen and Sugg Are
Named Cheerleaders

These Men Were Selected From Nine
Candidates and Will Assist
Ed Kuykendall

In the voting last week, Brook Allen and
Bruce Sugg were elected Junior cheerleaders
to assist Ed Kuykendall this year. These men
were chosen over a group of nine men com-
posed of Joe Bryant, John Lake, Tom Bowles,
Leland McKeithan, Jack Stuart, Anderson
Little, and Bob Glasgow. In the first day’s
voting four men were eliminated, leaving AI-
len, Sugg, Glasgow, Bowles, and Little in the
race. Allen and Sugg were elected from this
group of five.

Both of the new cheerleaders are, members
of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and
Sugg is the sports editor of The Davidsonian.
He is also a member of the Glee Club and was
a member of the College Band last year.

As is customary at Davidson, these two men
will assist the head cheerleader, Ed Kuyken-
dall, for the rest of this year. Then in the late
spring, one of the two will be chosen by the
student body as head cheerleader for next year.

Players Named For
“The Monkey’s Paw”

Parts in “The Monkey's Paw” have been
chosen and rehearsals are full under way. The
club being without a director, Prof. Erwin, who
is a member of the Key Club, was present at
the tryout rehearsal to confirm the selection of
characters. The group of five will rehearse about
three times a week in Shearer Hall until the

parts have been thoroughly mastered. Then stage
work will probably shift to Chambers Ate
rium to the characters with
tance and setting so that precision of gesture |
and action can be practiced. |

familiarize dis-

The leading male part, that of Mr. White, |
head of a poor English family, who has man-
aged to provide for them in a modest dwell-
ing upon which there is now a two hundred-
pound mortgage, is assumed by Horace Ervin, |
who took minor parts in “Whappin’ Wharf”
in 1930 and in “The Perfect Alibi” last year.
The role of Mrs. White, the only female part
in’the play, is taken by Miss Adele Arbuckle.
Miss Arbuckle, who is a recent graduate of
Agnes Scott College, was president the
Dramatic Society in that institution.

of

John G. Magvin will be Herbert, only son
of the otherwise lonely couple, through whom
the granting of the first wish is made plausible
and yet regretted by them, and about whom
are woven ‘the additional two wishes. Marvin
also will have charge, as usual, of make-up.

Sampson, representative from the electrical
company for whom Herbert works, is taken by
Fred Hellegers of the Sophomore class, who
his first appearance on the Davidson
stage. Hellegers has had experience in’ high
school in such plays as “Mrs. Bumpstead Leigh,”
“The Copperhead,” and “Spreading the News.”

makes

The only new member of the student body
to be given a part in the first: presentation of
the year is.Grainger Williams of the Junior
class, who is Sergeant-Major Morris, soldier,
mystic, and gossip, who brings the paw with
its horrific s+history into the lives of the peace
able family. Sergeant knows that the paw was
first charmed by an old fakir of India, so that
three wishes would be granted to three
possessors. He himself was the second.

any

Stage manager for the play is Henry C. Mc-
Fadyen, recently elected to the Key Club.

In spite of previous announcement, it is. not
certain that “The Monkey’s Paw” will be pre-
sented on Home-Coming Day, as the evening is
under-the auspices of the Glee Club, who may
not require a play of one hour to fill the pro-
gram, Announcement, pending decision of that
organization, will be made later.

Informal Debate
Held-by Phi Society

The Philanthropic Literary Society held an
informal debate at their meeting Tuesday night,
September 21. They had as guests the Eumenean
Literary Society and the debate was staged he-
tween Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr. Frazer Hood.

President Rhyburn presided at the meeting
and announced the subject, Resolved, “That
Participation in Literary Society Activities is
More Beneficial Than Taking Part in Inter-
Collegiate Athletics.” Dr. Harding upheld the
affirmative side of the question and Dr. Hood
argued for the negative.

Dr. Harding, in beginning his speech, stated
that to his way of thinking the question for
debate was ridiculous since it was so one-sided
in his favor. Then, he declared that it was true
that athletes in their prime received good com-
pensation, but after they grew older they were
no longer able to compete in athletics and had
no future ahead of them. While the man who
is versed in parliamentary law, the art of de-
bate, and public speaking, has everything to
look forward to.

In response Dr. Hood replied he was sur-
prised that his*colleague did not appreciate the
value derived from taking part in inter-col-
legiate athletics. He pointed out that it bene-
fited a man physically as well as socially. He
also emphasized the fact that it took more
brains, to catch some of the elusive forward
passes than to pass some of the examinations
given by local teachers.

There was a rebuttal which followed the de-
bate and it was spicy and full of rich humor.
At the close of the debate a vote was taken
by the society and it was decided that the vote

was a tie.

FRATERNITY AVERAGES

According to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld,
the following is a list of the scholastic
averages of the social fraternities for
the-year 1930-31: Kappa Alpha, 85.94;
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 85.66; Sigma Phi
Epsilon, 85.58; Phi Gamma Delta,
85.27; Phi Delta Theta, 84.58; Pi Kap-
pa Alpha, 84.46; Kappa Sigma, 84.33;
Beta Theta Pi, 83:55; Theta Upsilon
Omega, 82.49; Pi Kappa Phi, 82.37.

This is the third (but not consecu-
tive) year that the Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity has won the cup. If they win
it this year, 1931-32, they will gain
permanent possession of the cup. The
Pi Kappa Alphas have won it two
times before, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, one
year, Phi Gamma Deltas, one year, and
the Beta Theta “Pis, one year. vm

The cup was given in 1924 by Mr.
James C. Harper, of Lenoir, N. C.
The fraternity making the highest
scholastic record keeps the cup for one
year or until their average is sur-
passed. The the
highest standing for three consecutive

fraternity having

years gains permanent possession of
the cup.

Professor K. J. Foreman
to Conduct Open Forum
at Vespers, ( October 4th

Collection of Interesting Questions
Has Been Gathered During the
Past Week

FIRST OPEN FORUM HELD

The Topic of Predestination is of
Interest to the Student Body

On next Sunday night the Y. M, C. A. will
present perhaps the most interesting and cer-
tainly the most unique vesper seryice ever held
at Davidson College. At this- time there will |
be an open forum with Prof. K. J. Foreman,
professor of Bible and Philosophy here at Da-
vidson, in charge.

For the past week there has been a box in
Chambers Building in which students had the
opportunity of depositing questions which they
wished answered at the forum on Sunday night.
A great many questions were put into this box. |

On the whole it may be said that most of
the questions were thought-producing, and all
of them interesting. It is believed that they in-
clude almost all of the questions that may be
at the hearts of the student body at present,
and should therefore be not only entertaining
but also highly valuable.

Most of the questions seemed to be on the}
general subject of predestination, but not all.
The following are typical: “Granting that God
is all-powerful, why did He allow evil to come |
into the world, knowing that His Son ‘should
have to suffer untold agony in payment for that
which He created?” “What is your idea of
hell?” “When does the soul enter’ and leave |
the body of man?” “Why do you believe in the |
immortality of the soul?” “Why should we be-!
lieve “in predestination?” “How may we know
that the Bible is the infallible Word of God?”
“What is truth?” “What did the ‘tree of life’
in the Garden of Eden symbolize?” “Can
man never heard of Jesus Christ

a
who he
saved 2?”

As seen above, the questions are ones that
are vital in religion. Furthermore, the man to
lead the discussion of these questions is admir-
ably suited for that position. As professor for
both Bible and Philosophy, Professor Fore- |
man has acquired the type of knowledge re- |
quired for answering questions of the above
type. In addition he has a ready wit and ideas
that are always unusual and original. |

This forum on next Sunday night should
prove very thought-provoking and extremely |
interesting and helpful.

The number of candidates for football man-
ager reached twenty last week as eleven Fresh-
men in addition to the nine upperclassmen re-
ported to Bob Gorrell, varsity manager.

Candidates are: Juniors, A. H. Grant, W. AL
Mebane, and A. Ross, Jr.; Sophomores, R. W. |
Beaty, J. B. Caldwell, Frank Holt, John Drake,
B. F. Ormond, Jr., W. A. Kirkland; Freshmen,
Mims Rogers, Billy Northern, David McLain,
Raymond Pollock, Caskie Norvell, Warner Du-|
Bose, Bob Everett, Billy Atwater, J. C. Sher- |
rill, K. Hanrahan, G. W. Barnes.

Ten Social Fraternities

Issue Their

Annual Fall

Invitations to Freshmen

Dr. Tom Sparrow is
“Y” Vesper Speaker

Davidson Alumnus Gives Interesting
Talk on Character Work,
and Personality
“A iman’s influence is felt principally through
his character, his work, his personality, and
through his convictions,” said Dr. Tom Spar-
row, M.D., of Charlotte, in his vespers address

last Sunday evening. His text, which was read |

by Robert Gorrell, was based on the passage
from John 14:6-15,

Dr. Sparrow began his address by dlustrat-
ing how a man’s influence may be felt by his

|character, using the life of Stonewall Jackson

as ‘an example. The speaker showed how. the
Christliness of Jackson's life permeated his en-
tire battalion during the Civil War, and espe-
cially so among his staff, with whom he was
constantly A incident
quoted about the time when Jackson tad as-
sembled his staff in order to discuss the plans
for a battle the next day. After each officer
had expressed his opinion, Jackson announced
that he would withhold his plan until the fol-
lowing morning, to which Colonel Pall laugh-
ingly remarked that “Old Jackson” wanted time
to pray over it. Some hours later Hill returned
to Jackson’s tent and found him there praying,

associated. special was

and on seeing Jackson on his knees, Hill ‘was
heard to exelaim, “If this is religion, then I
want it!” A man’s character
oY spreading his influence.
Similarly, Dr. Sparrow developed his other

is one medium

points, using certain great men as illustrations.
In explanation of “a man's convictions” a warn-
ing was given to the audience not to have the
wrong kind of convictions. To be sure, the de-
testable man is he who is neither hot nor cold,
but nevertheless a man should be cautious as
to questions on which he convicts himself. To
make himself clear, Dr. Sparrow told of an
instance in which a Philadelphia gangster was
shot, and when questioned, he told numerous
lies in order to protect his would-be assassin,
because thé code of his convictions prohibited
him to be a “squeeler.”

In conclusion, a well-known quotation was
given as an additional seal for the right kind
of influence that our lives should spread. The
passage was: “To thine ownself be true Then
as the day follows the night, thou canst not
he false to any man.”

Scabbard ana Blade

Emblems Presented

Scabbard and Blade emblems were presented
eight cadet officers of the local R. O. T. C.
battalion at the regular drill period held last
Monday. The eight officers received bids in
the Scabbard and Blade last spring. All are
members of the Senior class and are beginning
their, fourth year in military science at David-
son.

Don S. King, cadet major of the battalion;
D. Grier Martin, captain Company B.; L. 5S.
Raker, captain Company D.; P. M. Conway,
captain Company A; S. S. Wiley, captain-
adjutant; A. G. Montgomery, W. S. Lea, and
Chas. Harris, cadet lieutenants, were the cight
presented with emblems.

Presentation of the emblems was made by

Col. W. R. Scott, professor of military science |

and tactics, who complimented each officer on
his achievement.

In addition to presenting Scabbard and Blade
emblems, Col. Scott awarded medals in marks-
manship to M. L. Brohard, S. S. Wiley, and
A. G. Graham.*These three men were members
of the 1931 rifle team, which made an impres-
sive showing at Camp Perry this year.

Rifles were used at the battalion formation
for the first time this semester and added to
the presentation ceremonies.

The very essence of a free government con-
sists in considering offices as public trusts, be-
stowed for the good of the country, and not
for the benefit of an individual or a party.—
John C. Calhoun.

God grants liberty only to those who love
it, and are always ready. to guard and defend
it—Webster.

Ninety-two Freshmen, Two Sopho-
mores, and Four Juniors Were
Pledged September 23

LAST YEAR 110 PLEDGED

Pledge Night Ended One of College’s
Most Successful Rushing
Seasons

Ninety-cight men were this week pledged to
membership in Davidson College's ten national”
social fraternities. The pledging came as the
climax of two weeks of intensive rushing activi-
ties which have been in progress since the be-
ginning of school. The number pledged includes
four men who are Juniors, two who are Sopho-
mores, and 92 members of the Freshman class.

This year’s pledge list falls an even dozen
short of the number who were so honored last
fall, when 110 aligned themselves with the Da-
vidson fraternities.

The list of pledges follows:

Beta Theta Pi; Byrou Schriver and E. G.
Williams, both of Little Rock, Ark., members
of the Junior class, and the following Kresh-
men: J. M. Voegtler, Summit, N. J.; J. L.
MeClintock, Charlotte; W. ©. Brewer, Hender-
son; T. D. Miller, Henderson; W. E. Atwater,
Burlington: G. H. Brown, River Edge, N. J.,
and Spencer B, Hanes, Jr., Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Wills Hollingsworth, Flor-
ence, Ala; R. K. Matthews, Kwansie, Japan;
C. FE. Norvell, Greensboro; G. C. Harris,
Welch, W. Va.; J. W. Ashton, Middleburg,
Vai; FR. Hillier, Barbourville, Ky.; R. H.
Berry, Harrisonburg, Va.; Henry Daniel,
Charlottesville, WVa.; Henry Hodgin, Red
Springs; B. P. Little, Albemarle; W. H. Tom-
lin, Gastonia; J. F. Baxter, Gainesville, Fla. ;
Ralph Caton, Concord; and John Mackorell,
Hickory; and P, J. McElrath, Bramwell, W.
Va., a member of the Sophomore class.

Kappa Alpha: D. B. Bailey, Rock Hill, S.
C.; J. H. Batte, Concord; Warner DuBose,
Mobile, Ala.; R. W. Dulin, Jr, C. C. Lucas,
Ik. FF. McPhail, and L. D. McPhail, all of
Charlotte; Dewey Hutchins, Lexington; J. A.
Macfie, Brevard; Singleton Maynard, Bluefield,
W. Va.; J. L. Milford, Charleston, W. Va.;
Lewis R. Prosser, Johnston City, Tenn.; Jeff
Robbins, Chester, S. C., and W. H. Sprunt,
Wilmington:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
vidson; R. B. Everett, Laurinburg; | Jack
Hellinger, New Bern; Robert Korneygay;
Rocky Mount; C. A. Munroe, and J. ASG,
Wadsworth, both of Charlotte; K. D. Weeks,
| Rocky Mount; T. F. Wood, Jr., Wilmington ;
|W. H. Watkins, Ramseur; W. N. Neill, Jr.
| Columbus, Ga.

Kappa Sigma: EE. B. Garrett, Jr., Rigdon
Dees, Jr, L. F. Byerly, and Lee VanStory,
and Charles W. Rives, all of Greensboro; H.
Gomez, Orange, Texas; B. L. Rose, Fayette-
ville; W. B. Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; S. W.
Bernhardt, Lenoir; H. L. Green, Mt. Berry,
Ga., and H. E. White, Gastonia.

Phi Gamma Delta: E. G. Holt, Greensboro ;

J. M. Douglas, Da-

(Continued on page 6)

Fifty-One Contest ,
in Frosh Cake Race

Morris and McFadyen Break Tape
Together at Finish Line

Fifty-one contestants streakéd across hill and
dale in the precincts of Davidson College last
week in the second annual cake race, and out
the mass of human beings came spurting

ot

Hubert Morris, Freshman from Winston-Sa-
lem, and A, A. MeFadyen, Junior from China,
to tie. The course was 1.7 miles and was ne-
gotiated in 10 minutes 37.5 seconds, which
failed to measure up to the record set last

year by Rufus Morrow, of Mexico. His time
for the same distance a year ago was 10 min-
utes 30 seconds.

Heath Whittle, assistant in physical educa-
tion, was the official in charge of the race,
and stated that it was staged to enable the
coaches to have an idea of what might be ex-
pected in the way of cross-country material.
Thirteen prizes were offered the winners, others
finishing in order being G. L. Gullette, Flor-
ence, Ala.; J. H. Simpson, Athens, Ga.; J. A.
Rose, Waynesville; R. W. Richardson, Jr.,

(Continued on page 6)

