THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 23, 1931

:

—

—<—<———

The DPavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN Editor-in-Chief
. A. CANNON Busi Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR Managing Editor
W. S. LEA. Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN. Managing Editor
Wit Bie MATTHEW Socsisicus ccsci cise ccsulaceed Sports Editor
Av oH WHIDBHIA Die so eecsc0 oc. coos News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES -----Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON......-. Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN....----. A iate Editor
tire BLACK Associate Editor
~ Cy RAGIN............ ---Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P, Ms “CONWAY cscscacccsesauen ssistant Business Manager
coef BAMHRGiias su apdsalbesnse Adsistant Business Manager
Ji Bi STEVENS ics ocs65 02 Sccilck. Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY..__ ption Manager
P. F. BROWN.... licitor
R. W. FALLS. aouses -----Solicitor
Al OM OMAN SO Nevis cucsdasaccacccccscsencasacescaacaeKee solicitor

A. L. MEBANE . hi
W. R. MORROW. Solicitor

a7)

rye

W. B.
D

1)

, gt

/
Layer ey, +]; la tearin iene oA » Yery rpe
jorgetting that the two words are not neces-
sarily synonymous,

Richard A. Zerega.

ries wae AA

wes LeING

re “a ’ 4 - oo
won eG CON Graiacwons to c VALALCLwe
7 44 jons!

we Os ase aahe oe © Gace erertiirricy tO.
, 1 Mien?
eo Cveheoss Of any Caronic awip Van Winkl cs
2xams are dver!
’ ’ ‘
e do e to be y ¢ ¢ ca es in
wToe ve Ge’ < c ee Spc. aA * . 7.
- c OW Waae ke is to we

ner 4Gbe

Applause is not always what it seems to be, if
one can believe The Chronicle, Duke college in
submitting news to the college public. One reads
that Paderewski received the greatest ovation ever
accorded an artist in Page Auditorium. On the next
Page an oracle comments that it doubted if he
lived up to his reputation. The critic even ad-
mitted his doubt as to the nature of that reputa-
tion.

We suppose it all goes to prove the fickleness
of the general public.

THE SENIOR QUESTIONNAIRE

Critics have often questioned the import-
ance which should be attached to straw

votes, intelligence tests, information blanks, :

questionnaires, and the like. Roger Babson
“once made the statement that anything
could be proved with statistics. We believe
that the present subject is like any of the
other types mentioned; it has to be inter-
preted correctly to be of value as an indi-
cator of popular opinion.

__ As framed, the Senior Questionnaire was

intended to solicit opinion from the majority
of the members of the Senior class as re-
gards current college topics and as related
to personal ideas and habits. It did not
attempt to elicit, nor did it-receive, conser-
lous criticism. Except in a few and rela-
tively unimportant cases were there any
leading questions. No solicitation or con-
dition was made in reference to any par-
ticular question. The only demand was that
the papers should be unsigned.

It is the common opinion of those, who
have participated in the tabulation of an-
swers that continual proof was given that
thought had been present in the formation
of replies. Replies also bore evidence that
there was universal veracity of thought and
seriousness of consideration.

Sixty-nine questionnaires were filled out
and returned. We believe that this is a
fair indcation of the Senior class as a whole.
Not only is this true, but careful scrutiny
of the returns shows that the men answer-
ing constitute an excellent representation of
the, class. Every line and branch of colle-
giate endeavor was well represented..

——

THE PROBLEM OF TRANSPORTATION

When the Romans constructed such
feats of engineering as the Appian way they
realized the great necessity for an easy
means of traveling from one place to an-
other. Inventions have likewise shown
man’s eagerness to get somewhere in ‘the
quickest way possible. It remains a prob-
lem, even to the college man.

In light of recent rumors and_ reports
from divers sources a few words of caution
may not prove out of place. Lest either the
“pros” or the “cons” doubt our good inten-
tions, let it be said that we are merely try-
ing to add another solution to the old, ever-
existent, problem.

We do not believe that “courtesy rides”
prove either bothersome or unpleasant to
those who offer them, as a general rule.
Due to instince, it is often necessary to re-
turn from a certain place to the starting
point. Quite often, in the absence of bus
or train service there appears to be but one
alternative. We admit the efficacy of this
alternative as a means of last resort only.

When it becomes essential to employ this
last mentioned system individuals should re-
member that they are purely and rightly in
the nature of guests. They have been in-

'vited to accept a moving hospitality, and

are under obligation to its donor. Not only
are they under obligation to their carrier,
but‘they owe a courteous thanks to the per-

son on whose property they were when in-

| vited to ride. A cheerful receiver is as essen-

tial as a cheerful giver.

TENNIS AND GOLF

As spring sports activities begin to swing
into full sway, as they must before a great

| period of time elapses, track and baseball

will claim a goodly number of candidates.
The basketball and wrestling seasons will
be drawing to a close. With spring training
in football, this period marks the time of
greatest variety, of not greatest intensity,
of athletic compettion at Davidson.

There are two sports which are often
times overlooked to some degree by the
student body. Tennis is one of them. It

| is hardly necessary to observe that tennis

is the one sport in which more non-varsity
athletes participate than in any other.. But
tennis has its own adherents, men that de-
vote more time to it than to any other form
of extra-curricular activity. It is due to
this fact that Davidson tennis teams in the

_ past have ranked along with those of any

other college or university in the South.
The memory of Bradley, Carr, Roddey, and

-Halverstadt remains.

One is at a loss to explain the usually
poor attendance at tennis matches. There
are probably three basic reasons. In the
first place, it seems that they are usually
staged at the same time when a track meet
or baseball game is going on. Tennis never
has had the drawing power of these two
sports in collegiate followings. Secondly,
it is not as well advertised as other activi-
ties. Lastly, comfortable seating accommo-
dations are sadly lacking. Spectators have
either experienced, or seem to fear the un-
pleasant sensation of*slidng down a red clay
bank into the back-stop. The courts are, in
themselves, good; careful attention has
whipped them into remarkable shape for
the period of time that they have been in
use. Still, lovers of the game have to have
a considerable desire to watch it before they
will sit on the ground or on seats improvised
of old boxes and pieces of wood for the
length of time fecessary to complete a
match,

Golf, on the other hand, is a coming sport
here. It gains more followers every year.
The men in this branch of athletics have
not yet been awarded varsity recognition;
we believe they will eventually get it. At
the same time, they are doing their part to
represent Davidson on the links in compe-
titive competition in the state.

Few conveniences can be constructed for
a gallery. Even the most rabid fan could
hardly propose a stadium or stand large
enough for a nine hole golf course, if such
a structure were possible. It is to be regret-
ted, however, that more golf matches can-

‘not be arranged for the local links. Dr. Ar-

buckle and the golf committee have done
wonders with the material and resources
they have had.

It will probably be some time before it
will be possible to hold inter-collegiate tour-
naments here. In addition to general im-
provement there are a few details that
should be attended to. Players must not be
in continual danger of falling off of bridges
into water hazards, or of tearing their sports
attire on certain metal devices that mark
old property lines. It will be a new mark of
progress when students can comfortably
witness tennis and golf matches on the
campus.

What Do You Know
About?

Pushing the Drive?
Fortune on Foam?

Spring Growth of. Business?
’ Colorful Choices?

Drastic measures have been undertaken by the
Red Cross for relief of the millions of sufferers
in drouth-stricken areas. In order to meet the
need, a special call for $10,000,000 has: been made
by the body, and the full forces of the organization
have been called upon to aid in the raising of the
amount.

A proclamation by President Hoover formally
started the campaign. He appointed a committee
of fifty of the most prominent men and women
in American life to aid in the raising of the funds,
and the work has been pushed into action as
quickly as possible. Heading the committee are
Ex-President Coolidge, in the role of honorary
chairman, and Almost-President Al Smith, as the
man who is actually at the helm. These two,
coupled with the others on the committee give
the campaign added prestige and the backing of
big names—and big pocket books—that otherwise
might have been lost.

And being in need of a good publicity agent,
one who could really picture the need to America
in a way that would get attention in the news-
papers, one of the most widely-read men in the
United States—Will Rogers—was named for the
position. Piloted by the best known present-day
figure of the other, Capt. Frank Hawkes—speed
man de luxe—Will has been touring the stricken
areas and has been giving to his readers the con-
ditions as they are.

It is a worthy ‘cause, and should go over well.

“Science is always wrong. It never solves a
problem without \creating ten more.”—George
Shaw.

One of America’s wealthiest drug manufac-
turers, and a sportsman widely known through.
out the Carolinas, died last week. I. E. Emerson,
head of the drug company that bears his name,
and inventor of the formula for Bromo-Seltzer,
had acquired a large fortune from his invention
of an ease for headaches, and was widely known
as a lavish and popular host.

The story of Emerson’s discovery of the for-

the subsequent rise of the then young druggist
reads like an Horatio Alger story. While work-
ing in a drug store as a clerk, he took a well-
known headache remedy — potassium bromide —
and by adding a little of another chemical to the
uninteresting white powder, the enterprising
young man obtained a mixture that fizzed and
foamed in a most convincing manner when water
was added, and immediately changed an every-
day remedy, which sold only moderately, into a
national necessity. And a few bubbles did it all,
because before the addition of the foaming con-
stituent, potassium bromide had enjoyed little
popularity.

f

“ must haridle the family bankbook. If the
professor tried it, he would get all mixed up.’—
Mrs. Albert Einstein, wife of the German Scientist.

Business is looking hopefully into the spring
months for a revival of America from its lethargy,
and a return to something like the good old days
“B, D.” (Before the depression), One of the things

the fact that every day brings added news of
more men returning to their jobs, and of the
wheels of industry beginning ot turn once more
at something of their wonted pace. Ford alone
has taken on almost 60,000 new men in.the last few
weeks, returning his force to: almost normal capa-
city. Other automobile makers are reporting the
return of large numbers of their employees. Other
industries, too, are on the upgrade, and the more
optimistic are looking for things to snap out of it
soon.

Shakespeare except pajamas.” — Sir Phillip Ben
Greet.

Recent study by a noted psychologist into the
color, likes and dislikes of the various races has
revealed a number of interesting things. One
of them is that blue is liked best of all colors by
both members of the white race and by Negroes.
Next in the grouping of these comes green and
then orange. It is said that white is the least liked.

and Mexicans had as their pet. shade a nice flam-
ing red. These placed blue second, and again
concurred with the whites and blacks by placing
white at the end of the list. What sort of people
like Christmas neckties? :

“What I missed most during my first Christmas

at Hollywood was holly.”—Greta Garbo.

mula for America’s great eye strain remedy~and—-

which is helping to make their hopes mount is -

“There is almost nothing you can’t find in ~

Carrying his work on into the desires of those of -
her races, it was found ‘that Indians, Japanese, ’

MUSINGS 9 “%e
MATADOR _

VEREEN 41 te
BELL ume
After hearing all this talk about abolishing war

and with no results forthcoming I have decided

that I would take the matter in my own capable
hands and promptly dispose of the warlord Mars.

In the first place, we don’t need to bother with

foreign countries; we should live to ourselves, To

this some will say that the Americans have not

the aesthetic sense of Continentals. To this, I

point with pardonable pride to the football teams

of the good ole United States—witness the Uni-
versity of Alabama and Notre Dame—and answer
that we have as good aesthetics as anybody. Also
some may, not knowing the facts,say that we have
no sculpture to compare with Europe’s and again

I use the finger of scorn and point, although it is

impolite, to our American radiator caps—what bet-

ter sculpture do you want? Now, my friends I

come to a vital point (no, I’m through pointing

with my finger): It is absolutely too hot to fight
in the summer time. Any married man will tell
you that. Why, in parts of Spain in the summer
it is usually 110 degrees Feryhot in the shade...
in the shade, mind you! Of course, my adversaries
in this cause (and, ah, they are numerous) will
shrug their square shoulder smugly (as smug as

a bug in a rug) and say that we don’t have to

fight in the shade where it is so hot. To this I

merely ask—Is that any argument?. No! And

what's fair for the sauce is goose for the gander,

I ‘say.

So I state that we should leave the foreigners
alone. Now, I will admit that we do owe them
a debt of gratitude in one way: This country was
discovered by foreigners. Besides saying that
we are grateful, I say nothing to this. This has
always been a sore spot with me; why couldn't
some full-blooded American have discovered this
country!

I now come to my method of abolishing war.
The military forces should take on an enormous
searchlight capable of sending a powerful beam
of black light—just common every day black
light—and place it in a strategic position near the
front. Then we ignore the enemy, absolutely ig-
nore them. The enemy hates nothing worse than
ignorance and will come charging into range of
the searchlight. Then I (I really think I should
be the one to man the searchlight because it’s my
idea and everything, you know) will turn my
powerful black light down on them, full force.
The enemy, thinking it is dark, will tuck each
other in bed and go to sleep. When their snores
will punctuate, pardon me, I mean puncture the
air, we (the general and myself and a few of the
fellows) will silently steal down to their encamp-
ment. A little study can be given to those snores
that puncture the air that is filled with black
light. If we wait too long the snores will have
made so many knot holes in our black light that the
enemy will think it is day again and resume the
aforementioned charge; but if the holes are knot
holes what are they? Now to resume: The gen-
eral and myself and a few of the fellows are down
n the encampment amid the punctures of the
enemy. The general (or I could do it either) sends
up a small flare of white light and my successor
at the searchlight turns off the black light. The
enemy gradually begins to awaken and finds the
general and the fellows (not me; I can’t cook)
quietly cooking breakfast among them. They
smell the food (the general is a swell cook) cook-
ing and imagine they are very hungry. They cla-
mor for food but the general smilingly tells them
that he won’t give them a bite until they promise
not to fight any more. They agree readily and
we all sit around and enjoy breakfast together,
chatting like old friends. We even tell them
about the black light and we all laugh heartily
at the incident, so to speak.

We can start right now on this crusade by every
man learning to cook (except me; I am going to
man the searchlight). The present standing
army could be turned into a cooking school. How-
ever, let us remember that too many cooks spoil
the rod, so some of us must set about inventing
the searchlight; or we can do our bit by saving
up all the little dark places we run across and

pile them up and sprinkle them over the charg-
ing enemy.

7

Oak Hill, historic home of President James Mon-
roe in Loudoun County, Va., is to be sold at pub-
lic auction. s

|

When John Hicks, in Australia, called his rela-
tives in Sedalia, Mo., on December 26, he was
able to wish them a Merry Christmas, because. in
Sedalia it was December 25,

When Secretary of State Henry D. Stimson
heard his Washington home being bombarded, he
| found that his windows were being smashed by
boys using slingshots on birds in the vicinity.
