THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

ATTENTION LITERATI -
e e e e
What About Winchell? || Examination Schedule---Session 1931-1932---First Semester |
ee enone | ss
“Whoopee,” “gaga,” ‘“Renotoriety,” and | A. M. examinations begin at 9:00 P. M. examinations begin at 2:00
other newly-invented words of the Walter | Jan. Freshman ; Sophomore Junior and Senior
Winchell variety, have tHeir chance, along with | Thurs Ao AE feet A | “Breach 2 Se eeeh 5 pees
other colloquialisms, dialect terms and verbal | 14 c meee Sor | en Std ie ead
shortcuts, to take a permanent place in our) |
language, according to eleven of a group of | eA E | Political Science 1, Education 3
forty college professors of English who respond-
ed to an invitation to discuss the probable ef- Fri A.M. Mathematics 1 Math. 2 Mathematics 3, 4. Political Science 3.
fect. of “Winchellizing”-- on ow’ “everyday 15 Psychology 2, Business 1, Education 1
speech, | ) | : 5
Only three of those who ventured opinions pe | History 4, 5, 6
on the subject professed themselves to be un-| Sat. A.M. Latin A, 1 | Latin 2 Latin 3, 4. Economics 3, Geology 2
familiar with “America’s greatest gossip,” and | 16 Philosophy 2
his breezy chatter, which is disseminated | > i
through his writing and radio broadcasts on the | tae SAEs Seay. :
Lucky Strike Dance Hours. Mon, A. M.
Opinions varied from that of Prof. H.,\W. 18
Ward of Coe College, Iowa, who thought
“Winchell’s many racy expressions and often P.M. History 1 History 1 History 2, 3, 7. Applied Math, 1, 2
startlingly apt new coinages wil ake a very Tues ; : yi j
abeciBRable ihieagion ae att seal ie A.M.) Biology 2 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5, 6. Business 2
to the indignant pun of Prof. J. W. Rankin of
the University of Missouri: “Winch? Hell no!" | P.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Bible 5, 6. Astronomy, Geology 1,
At the suggestion, however, that. Winchell’s : Philosophy 4 i
vest-pocket words, expressing wh ig’ :
Hiss a piel as oe es ear ne wt AeoM: Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry eh 4,5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
lions of tongues the day after they. are coined, . Economics 2, Education 2
mia Set lace | P. M.| Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 4, 5, 6. Business 3. Psychology 4
Sad, but true.
Profs Enjoy “Winchellizing” | Thur. A. M. Economics 1. Psychology 3. Geology 3
Other English professors, on the other hand, | a
who did not concede, that “Winchellizing” would | P.M.) Enelish 1 English 2 English 3, 6, 8,9
affect the language permanently, confessed that | rik ban a Son MAE
they themselves enjoy his gossip and his high- | Fri, A.M Physics 1 Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,8 Polit. Science 2
handed treatment of the language of Chaucer | 22
and the Declaration of Inde nce |
of replies ranged from pi acoatana ee P. M.| Spanish A, 1 Spanish 2 | Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. , Economies 5
“Unfortunate, if any,” commented Prof. Al- Physical Education
Wade woes te cima | gl | Feonomics 4, Pola en
aie s ; a .M. Economics 4, Political Science 4
Corrupting,” was the term used by Prof,
J. H. Chamberlin of Marietta College, Ohio, P.M) ROTC1 ROTC2 ROTC 3,4
Prof. F. T. Baker of Columbia University

thought the wide broadcasting of racy expres-
sions like Winchell’s gives us a “more pic-
turesque language,”
lived.

“No .one can say that some of the Winchell
contributions may not filter into accepted use,”
wrote Prof. Percy H. Boynton, of the Univer-
sity of Chicago.

“Many will doubtless find a place in. the
standard dictionaries, but in most, if not all
cases, merely as forms of slang,” according to
Prof. Z. W. Coombs, of the Worcester Poly-
technic Institute in Masgachusetts. :

Slaps “Slang-Slingers”

“The prime trait of slang-slingers seems to
be the facility with which the words of the
language are slung right and left by them with
a total disregard for propriety,” wrote Prof,
H. J. Tunney of the University of Notre Dame,
in a long and entertaining discussion of Win-
chell’s English.

“When Mr. Walter Winchéll tells of a mis-
mated married couple who have gone to Nevada |
to ‘Reno-vate,’”” Professor Tunney added, “we |
must, perforce, chuckle. That is a clever, witty!
expression; and so is ‘Renotoriety.’ 5
objection is that Mr. Winchell
aware of his wit and cleverness.” |

“The English language has been subjected |
to many vicissitudes in the past,” said Prof. |
Carleton Brown of New York University, sec- |
retary of the Modern Language Association of |
America, “and has shown remarkable tough-
ness and power of persistence. My personal |
opinion is that it will continue without any
perceptible effect from the worst which Mr.
Winchell can do Ho) 5,”

“Undeniably these intellectual flashes tend to
quicken our national speech,’ remarked Prof,
Carroll S. Alden, head of the department of
English and history at’ the United States Naval
Academy in Annapolis, “but coined expressions,
especially those relating to temporary condi-
tions, will not be found to have anything of the

vitality possessed by those that spring from the
soil.”

even if his words are short-

The only |
is too well |
|

“Language is constantly growing and con-
stantly changing,” commented Prof, Robert
Withington of Smith College, Northampton,
Massachusetts. “We find words in good order
today which started as slang or were once re-

| Prof. L, B. Schenck at ‘Y’
| Vespers Makes Talk On
| Esau and His Birthright

Professor Schenck Talked Interesting-
ly on Esau at Vespers Led by
Charles Spencer

“Here they come after the during
which selfishness and pride have swept away
and which have been replaced by regret and
sorrow and remorse.” These are the Esaus we
can see about us that Prof. Lewis B. Schenck
| pointed out at last Sunday's Y vespers.
| Professor Schenck took from Genesis 25:34,
“And Esau despised his birthright” as the text
\for a most interesting and thought-provoking
talk, which was particularly appreciated be-
lcause of its extreme clarity and pointedness.

“A man, short-sighted, along ° life,
lmaking much of trifling things, but neglecting
| really worthwhile things, a man, choosing things
| temporary and perishable, and giving up things
| permanent and lasting, such a man was Esau

years

drifting

who gave up his birthright,” said Professor
| Schenck.

In Esau’s birthright were ingluded many
| great and valuable things, such as his father’s
| final blessing; but Esau gave them up tor a
mess of pottage. Today, everyone, not only the
eldest sons, has a magnificent birthright, which
| means health, education, character, and finally,
land most importantly, salvation. through Jesus
| Christ. Yet, the world today is full of Esaus.

We see several types of them. There is the
hearty, bluff, “hail-fellow-well-met™ sort of all-
around athlete and most popular man on the
campus. The man who finds no limits to his
amiability and activity, yet who fails, in that
he does not take a definite stand; he does not
have character enough nor vim. There is the
over-eating, over-indulging, excessively pleas-
ure-seeking Esau, to whom satisfaction of the
animal appetites is much more than good health.
There is another kind who Jets social, athletics,
and campus activities lose their proper propor-
tions, so that he forgets to study and never
knows the old-time digging into books.

“But here,” said Professor Schenck, “is the
| most common Fsau of all. He has two things
}to choose between: here, an upright character
| with soul kept clean and pure, and there, com-
| promise with sin, ‘I've got to go with the
lcrowd, even if it is a little bit shady, or the
fellows will laugh at me,’ he says. But did you
ever notice that the crowd has a secret respect

lfor him who is man cnough to step out and
' stand for something ?”

What the world needs are a few more Josephs
and Daniels and Pauls who will stick up tor
something; who will realize that it-is of great-
est importance for us, not to indulge in ex-
cessive pleasure, but only so much as God wills,
that we may have time to accomplish His ¢ther
works; who will up to the fact—the
fact to which Esaus most frequently are hlind-
ed—that we not only
lazy slackness and care exclusively for the

wake

hurt ourselves by our

Phivspeaph of the World-Famous Royal Russian Chorus, to Appear Here Tonight

“ALENDA LUX”

A Burning Question

At a recent meeting of, the administration of
the college, the lighting situation was consid-
ered and the former rule (No. 7 of the dormi-
tory regulations) was revoked.

The old rule,. which is as follows, NOT
MORE THAN TWO ELECTRICAL CON-
NECTIONS AND NOT MORE THAN
/{TWO LAMPS OF SIXTY WATTS EACH
NARE ALLOWED IN EACH ROOM, was
Pasa to be faulty and the following official
| statement has been issued by the administra-
Ition: WITH A VIEW TO BETTERING
DORMITORIES A CHANGE HAS BEEN
MADE IN THE RULES. HEREAFTER IT
WILL BE PERMISSABLE TO HAVE ONE
DOUBLE SOCKET AND THREE LIGHT
BULBS OF NOT OVER SIXTY CANDLE-
POWER IN EACH DORMITORY ROOM.
ACCORDING TO THE LAWS MADE BY
THE INSURANCE COMPANIES AND
| THE. STATE, AN EXTENSION CORD
|MUST BE WELL INSULATED AND

| THE LIGHTING SITUATION IN THE}

Sunnyland Serenaders
To Perform in Pinehurst

The Davidsoti Glee Club, accompanied by the

|

Sunnyland Serenaders, are to render a concert |

17.

-p hd :
The group of about 32 members of the Glee

in Pinehurst Thursday night, December

Club and about 10 of the orchestra will leave
here Thursday evening by bus, give the con-
cert that night in the Pinehurst Carolina Thea-
tre, and return later the same night. As_ this
is the club’s first trip to Pinehurst, each mem-
ber is expected to be doing his best to make
it a most successful and enjoyable concert.
The Glee Club, with William Rule as direc-
tor and George Pardington as business man-
ager, is ‘making rapid progress this year and
doigg excellent work both on and away from
the campus. In addition to the concert in Pine-
hurst, they are sponsoring the Russian Chorus
which is to be here Wednesday, December 16.
After the holidays, under the auspices of the

Junior class, the Glee Club will give a concert
at Queens-Chicora College. One or two other

concerts are to be given later in the spring, but

stricted to a trade or profession. I do not im-| MUST NOT TOUCH WOOD OR METAL. | a. yet cannot be definitely announced.

agine that anyone can tell which of Mr. Win- | THESE LAWS CAN BE'OBSERVED BY |
chell’s contributions will last—or whether any) THE USE OF A STRING TO SUSPEND |...

of them will.”

“MONK” YOUNGER

(Continued from page 3)

In going to V. P. I, Younger returns to his
alma mater, where he rose to heights as a col-
lege athlete. While there in school he earned
success in football, basketball, and baseball, and
obtained a knowledge in these sports which has
brought him great success at a coach. It was
while playing on the gridiron for V. P. I. that
“Monk” received the title of “Southern Panther.”
He was later termed “the smartest end in the
history of V. P. I. football.”

Younger will remain here until June, He will
direct the baseball team next spring, but will
not coach basketball this winter, in order to
handle spring football training which’ will start
immediately after exams.

\'‘FHE-CORD FROM A NAIL OR IRON

PIPE. STUDENTS ARE URGED TO COM-

PLY STRICTLY WITH -THESE LAWS.
|AN ELECTRICIAN WILL INSPECT
|CORDS, SOCKETS AND LIGHTS FROM
|TIME TO TIME TO SEE THAT STU-
DENTS ARE MEETING THE REQUIRE-
MENTS OF THE INSURANCE COM-
PANIES AND THE STATE.

Attention is pointed to the eighth rule of the
dormitory regulations, which is as follows:
OCCUPANTS OF ROOMS MUST NOT
TAMPER WITH LIGHT FIXTURES NOR
MAKE ANY GHANGES OR ALTERA-
TIONS. IF REPAIRS ARE NECESSARY,
REPORT PROMPTLY TO THE SUPER-
VISOR OF DORMITORIES. PENALTY
FOR VIOLATION OF THIS RULE IS
$5.00.

The probable program for the Pinehurst con-
rt is as follows:

Glee Club.

Quartet—Rule, DuBose, McLain and Morris.
Sunnyland Serenaders.

Glee Club.

A one-act skit—Erwin and McLain.

Violin Solo—Erwin.

Solo—Pardington.

Glee Club.
Glee Club
Davidson.”

and Sunnyland Serenaders--O

Prospective Frosh

Although it will be nine months before the
next class to enter Davidson College arrives,
applications are now. being. received from a

Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar of the institu-
tion, No efforts have been made urging the
students to send in their applications now, but
the registrar said that about 25 had already
applied. ‘ :

Mr. Hengeveld also commented upon the fact
that almost every one is accompanied by a re-
quest for loan funds, or inquiries about the pos-
This

same trend was potently evident in applications

sibility of obtaining work at Davidson.

for the class which arrived in September, and

things of this world, but that we also hurt
others, hurt men and wives and children and
the Chances for success of other men.

Then, after this refutation of his birthright,
comes the return of the Esau of the Bible and,
too, of our modern Fsaus. It comes after their
failure to live out of the present, to look ahead;
to resist the temptations of brief pleasure only
to be followed by remorseful expiation after
their falling between two stolls, their inabliity
to serve either Jehovah or Baal, it comes after
their total blindness to the fate of aught bat
self, It is, indeed, a sad sight to see the Esaus

nurhber of prospective students, according to

|was true, in a large measure, of those who

were returning.

‘struggle in, with futile hopes of retrieving their
lost birthrights, sold for a mess of pottage.
(Continued on page 6)

SCARLET TANAGER

Wishes You A
Merry Xmas
and a
Happy New Year

Phone 9143

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

1 Look Neat
For the Holidays

Stetson “D” Store

Nationally Known and Justly Famous

.. SPECIAL . .

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

