he Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 16, 1931

No. 24

ROGER ENLOE IS ELECTED

“Y” PRESIDENT ON THIRD

BALLOT, SUCCEEDS RUSK |

Howard and Myers Are Chosen to
Be Vice-Presidents for Next
Year

Roger Enloe, of Buchanan, Ga., ‘was elect-
ed to the presidency of the Davidson “Y”
for the year 1931-32, succeeding Dean Rusk,
of Atlanta, Ga., retiring president. John
Howard, of Atlanta, Ga., was elected first
vice-president, and Charlie Myers, of
Greensboro, second vice-president, Enloe was
elected on the third ballot. His Opponents in
this race were Chester Arnold, who was
eliminated on the first ballot; Jack McKin-
non, dropped on the second ballot, and Sam
Wiley, who was eliminated on the last bal-
lot. The opponents of Howard and Myers
in this election were Paul Brown, Bill Flinn,
Bruce Peabdoy, all eliminated on the first
ballot, and Charlie Norfleet, who was elim-
inated on the second ballot.

Enloe, newly elected president, was one
of the vice-presidents of last year, is a mem-
ber of Eta Sigma Phi honorary fraternity,
of the International Relations Club, of the
Ministerial Band, of the “Y” Cabinet, is the
art editor of the Quips and Cranks, and is
vice-president of the Eumenean Literary So-
ciety.

Howard, first vice-president, is a member
of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, of
the Beaver Club, a member of the track
squad, wearer of the Freshman numeral, and
secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore
class. Myers, the other vice-president, is a
member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, of the Le Cercle Francais honor-
ary fraternity,.of the Reporters’ Club, of the
Wildcat Handbook staff.

Davidson Debaters
End Northern Trip

Jones and Rule Also Close Southern
Trip Tonight Against
Southwestern

J. C. Matthews, of Lumberton, and R. D.
Powell, of Lawrenceville, Ga., completed
their spring debating tour for Davidson Col-
lege last week, with three victories and one
defeat. The two debaters, constituing David-
son’s first team to enter the 931 platform
field, won decisions over Birmingham-South-
ern by a 2-1 score, University of Richmond
by a similar score, and Roanoke College by
a 3-0 score. Their only defeat was adminis-
tered by the Wake Forest debaters by a score
of 2-1,

Matthews and Powell debated both sides
of the query, “Resolved: That the nations of
the world should adopt a policy of free
trade.” Their best showing was made when
they took the negative stand against Roa-
noke; while, when they contended for the
affirmative in all the other meets, the results
were rather close.

Another team, composed of Jas. A. Jones
and William Rule, left last Friday on a trip
through the South. Jones and Rule met the
University of Florida at Agnes Scott Col-
lege in Decatur, Ga., Saturday night, and
the University of the South’ in Sewanee,
Tenn., Monday night. Results of these two
debates were not available at press time. The
team concludes its trip tonight in Memphis,
Tenn., when they meet Southwestern Uni-
versity.

Wednesday, Davidson's third and last de-
bating team, composed of P. S. Knox, Jr.,
and G. P. Pardington, left for Rock Hill,
S. C, where they met the. University of
South Carolina debaters at Winthrop Col-
lege.

Salt Lake City—(IP)—Telephone authori-
ties: here have threatened to remove pay sta-
tions from the University of Utah campus
unless students desist from tearing the re-
ceivers from the phones and mutilating the
booths.

Dr. Fowle to Speak
at Last “Y’” Service

Announcement has been made by. the Y.
M. C. A. that Rev. James L. Fowle, D.D.,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at
Chattanooga, Tenn., has accepted the invi-
tation of the “Y" Cabinet to deliver the an-
nual commencement sermon before that body
during commencement week. Dr. Fowle will

speak Sunday night, May 31, in the second)

exercise of the 1931 graduating program.

This announcement follows that made sev-
eral days ago by Dr. Walter L. Lingle that
Dr. John Timothy Stone, president of Pres-
byterian Seminary, Chicago,
would deliver the baccalaureate sermon this
year, Selection of speakers for the first day
of commencement has therefore been com-
pleted. d

Theological

Dr. Fowle, who is a native of Washing- |

Y.M.C. A. Installation

On next Sunday night at vespers
the Y. M. C. A. will hold its annual
installation service. At this time the
members of the newly appointed
cabinet will be inducted into office.
All of these members have not been
chosen yet, but they will be appoint-
ed and notified sometime during this
| week. Roger Enloe, as newly elected
|| president of the Y. M.C. A., will be
installed along with the men who
will compose the Cabinet for the
coming year as heads of the follow-
ing departments: Publications, At-
Life Work Guidance,
Chapel Services, Deputations, Fresh-
man Work, Social Life, Weekly
Meetings Student Life, Church Re-
|| laions, Boys’ Work, Social Center,
World Evangelism, and Sunday
Schools.

The progam has not been com-
pleted yet, but it will contain spe-
cial music, scripture, and a prayer.

tendance,

Dr. Lingle Contributes
To Christian Observer

ton, D. C., graduated from Davidson in 1918, |

and completed his undergraduate theological

training at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va. |
At the latter institution he won the Hoge |

Fellowship, and because ofsit he did addi-
tional studying at Princeton
Seminary. He was pastor the Central
Presbyterian Church, St. Louis, Mo., for a
number of years before he became pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church in Chat-
tanooga two years ago. Davidson conferred
a doctor of divinity degree upon him at com-
mencement, 1928.

of

Wildcats To Play Three
Big Games within Week

Team Faces Strong Competition
When it Meets Guilford, State
and Duke Here

Monk Younger’s nine will oppose Guilford,
N. C, State, and Duke here during the com-
ing week. Guilford is slated for tomorrow
afternoon with N. C. State and Duke fol-
lowing up next week, on Monday the 20th
and Wednesday the 22nd, respectively. Da-
vidson has a score to settle with Guilford
for a trimming early in the season by a bare
margin. During the holidays the Wildcats
met both Elon and Guilford and were de
feated both times. One of these
avenged, the other is to be avenged, the Wild-
cats claim.

Monday afternoon Davidson will meet her
second Big Five opponent when State jour-
neys down here. The first Big Five game
with Carolina during the holidays was rained
out and Davidson lost her game with Wake
Forest, so to date she has only one game
on the won column. State will bring down
a well-rounded club, many members of which
have appeared against a Wildcat team this
year. Last week they lost a hard-fought
game with Duke in which they displayed

some good hitting power, better than average |

fielding and a fine pitcher.
Next Wednesday Jack Coombs will bring
his Duke Blue Devils to Davidson to show

; 5 4 ae |
their wares. Last year the Wildcats split |

even with the Blue Devils, beating them

5-0. in the first of the series, and losing the |
Jsecond, 7-0. Duke, with a team which can

in no way compare with their masterful team

of last year, has nevertheless been playing |

consistently good ball the whole season.

Annapolis,
Naval Academy here have been rebuked by

a candidate for admission whose grades were |
not good enough to qualify him as a mid. }
shipman, for paying too much attention to}

studies and not enough to athletics.

In his letter the disappointed student wrote
that he had been an active athlete in high
school and college and that he had fully ex-
pected ‘to play on the Navy football team
next fall.

“You can’t expect a 217-pound ail-youndl|

athlete to have very much time for studies,”
he said.

Theological |

Md.—(IP)—Officials of the |

Davidson President Will Write
Articles to Appear in Weekly
Issues of Magazine

Dr. Walter L. Lingle has recently become
a contributing editor to the Christian Ob-
server, the largest Presbyterian paper in
| America, Dr. Lingle will write an article
| each week under the head, “Talks on ‘Tiniely
Topics.” In the issue of April 1, Dr. Lingle
wrote an introductory article and last week
his second one appeared.

For the past six or seven years, Dr. Lingle
has been contributing articles to the Presby-
jterian of the South, published at Richmond,
| Va., but made a decision some time ago to
j accept the invitation of the Christian Ob
server to write for that paper. The Observer
is published at Louisville, Ky., and has a
circulation of over thirty-four thousand,

Dr. Lingle's articles have been and will
continue to be of a human interest nature.
These articles will deal with events, individ-
| uals, and topics that come to his mind while
at his desk here in Davidson, or on his trips
throughout America.

Vachel LindsayGives
‘Poetry Recital Here

has been |

“Readings of
| Tunes”

His Poetry to His Own
was the subject of a lecture-recital
given by Vachel Lindsay, noted American
poet, Thursday evening, March 26, at 7:30
o'clock in the auditorium of Chambers Build-
| ing.

Omitting General William Booth Enters
| Into Heaven, the Chinese Nightingale, and
| The Congo, three of his most famous poems,
| Mr. Lindsay chanted many of his less im-
portant works. Among these were The Vir-
ginians Are Coming, The Galleons of Spain,
|and The Plains of Kansas. The poet stressed
| (Continued on page 5)

Powell Named

President

The class of 34 has completed bal-
loting for next year’s Sophomore

president. As a result of several bal-
lots, E, L. Powell was elected from
a long list of nominees which in-
cluded the following: Wee Thomp-
son, Alex Schenck, James Halver-
stadt, John Lafferty, Bob Evans,
Julian West, and Boyd Morris.
Powell is from Mobile, Alabama,
and is a member of the Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.
||,. This is the first set of elections
| held by the present Freshman Class
| since the class voted not to elect
| any officers to serve during their
|| fresh year.
| The election for the remaining
class officers is scheduled for this
| week.

D. M. McQUEEN ELECTED
NEXT YEAR’S PRESIDENT
OF ATHLETIC ASS’N

Palmer Emphasizes
Liberal Arts School

Dr. Archie Palmer, of New York, asso
ciate secretary of the Association of Amer-
ican Colleges and Universities, was among
the visitors to the campus last week, and
While here he spoke to the student body at
chapel.

Dr. Palmer quoted many authorities, in
medical, educational, judicial, and business
fields, who were emphasizing the necessity
of a liberal arts education for students who
plan to enter these vocations, The visitor told
of the increased requirements for entrance
to graduate study, and the tendeney now to
select those students who have had a ground
work in liberal arts.

In the course of his address, Dr. Palmer
stated that Davidson was one of the few col
leges in America that had steadfastly ad
hered to the policy of giving only a liberal
arts training, in preference to branching out
and work. He brought
out the character training that can be ob

doing specialized
tained at such institutions, and congratulated
the college upon the standards it has niain
tained,

“In a few weeks now,” said the speaker,
“college officers will find camped on their
doorsteps representatives of our largest and
most progressive industrial and financial cor
porations, who will be sent to the colleges
to recruit from the ranks of the graduating
The
well-trained college man,” he went on to
say, “grasps intricate situations more quickly

classes additions to their own forces,

than the equally well-trained man who has
not had the advantage of the broader funda
mental education. Every employer is look-
ing for the man who will think.”

Junior Entertainment is
A Success Despite Rain

Track Meet Rained Out, But Carni-
val Held in Gymnasium Draws
Large Crowd

In spite of the fact that Junior Speaking
was accompanied by an almost incessant
downpour of rain, it nevertheless proved to
be a source of much pleasure for the stu-
dents and their visitors.

On Friday night, March 27, the Mystery
Trunk [Entertainment was held at the Char-
lotte Hotel and from all reports it was quite
a social success. The following afternoon,
the track meet with North Carolina State
was postponed on account of the continued
rain. As this left Saturday afternoon open,
Dr. Armitage, of the Stony Brook Prepara-
tory School, graciously consented to give
a program of his own in Chambers Audi-
torium. Dr. Armitage rendered splendidly
several impersonations from Dickens’ works,
and also gave some. sleight-of-hand_ tricks
which were highly entertaining. In closing
his program, he performed an amusing ven
triloquist skit with his dummy, “Tommy.”

Immediately after supper Saturday evening,
a new type of diversion was. presented in the
gymnasium in the form of a carnival. The
gym was decorated with the Junior Class
colors, and stationed around the walls, were
several booths, fashioned after the regular
street fair booth. The various prizes offered
for feats of marksmanship and other skill-
fulness served as a motive to materially pro-
mote the degree of hilarity.

Baton Rouge, La.—(IP)—Discovery by
workmen of an old iron casket on the old
campus of Louisiana State University here
is believed to have determined that the old
campus was formerly a Spanish graveyard.
In the casket was the well-preserved body
of a young man who appeared to have been
killed in a duel, for their was a deep gash
across one cheek. His clothes were of the
finest materials. Other caskets also are to

be removed from the plot.

Gardner and Mills Named Vice-
Presidents With Brown as
Secretary and Treasurer

The officers of the Athletic Association
for next year were recently elected by the
Davidson student body. The officers were
chosen from the group of men that have been
awarded “D's” and from those members of
the Freshman Class who have been awarded
Freshman numerals for services rendered in
different sports during 1930-31.

were nominated for
president of the association: G. L. Bernhardt,
Emmett Brannon, Steve Brown, Gene Du-
Bose, Ed Gorham, Sylvester MeLean, Don
MacQueen, Grier Martin, G. L. Mathis, L.
S. Raker, and P.M. Conway. All these men
are Juniors and wearers of the Varsity “D.”
Five men left in’ the after the
first ballot, Steve Brown, Don MacQueen,
Grier Martin, G. 1. Mathis, and L. S. Raker.
The second ballot left Raker, MacQueen and
Brown to upon. Don MacQueen
was elected finally on the fourth ballot, Raker
being in the finals with him. MacQueen is

The following men

were race

be voted

a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity,
of the “D" Club, and has been on the varsity
football squad for two years. He was a mem-
of the football
teams,

ber Freshman baseball and

Following are the men nominated for vice-
president: Buck Mills, V. B. Gardner, Ben
Taylor, Joe Tyack, George Vick, and Jack
Wagner. Gardner and Mills were elected on
the first ballot. All these men are members
of the dof the "“D"”
Club, Gardner is a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, of the “D" Club, and the
varsity football squad. He was captain of the

Sophomore Class an

Freshman football team. Mills is a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, of the
“D" Club, of the football squad, and base-
ball squad. He was a member of the Fresh-
man football and baseball squads.

All

were nominated for secretary and treasurer.

Freshmen who made their numerals
All were eliminated on the first ballot ex-
Brown, Odi Casali, Bob Evans,
Julian West. Reid

Brown was elected on the third ballot, Evans

cept Reid

Harvey Curlee, and
srown
team

being his competitor in the finals.
of the Fresh football
and made his numeral in this sport.

Columbia Students
Conduct Y Vespers

was a member

Address Given By Mr. Peter
Marshall—Dr. Cartledge
Conducts Service

The vesper services for Sunday, March 29,
were conducted by a deputation from Colum-
Seminary, the devotional
address being given by Mr. Peter Marshall,
a graduate of the Technical College of Scot-
land. The Dr.

Cartledge, and he was assisted by several se-

boia Theological

program was conducted by
lections by their quartet, which was composed
of Dr. Mr. Mr.

Peter Marshall, and Mr. Henry L’Heureux.

Cartledge, Cecil Thomas,
Mr. Marshall's inspiring address was given
Scotch which helped
irom the first to hold the attention of every-

in his) rich brogue,
During the course of: his sermon, he
beautiful illustrations

in an effort to show that the only real hap-

one,
Rave many personal
piness lies in a truly consecrated service to
Christ. This thought was the general theme
of his address. One especially good illustra-
tion that Mr. Marshall gave was the story
oi a rich planter of the Far East who came
back to Ely to try to find someone who
would be willing to go back with him to a
life of ease and comfort, and not necessarily,
godliness. The planter, after addressing the
students, asked all who would like to go,
to see him after the meeting. Not one went.
Then, Mr. Marshal said that a few weeks
later a poor, bent, and diseased missionaPy
came to address the students and also make
(Continued on page 5)
