THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

aN

Alumni Personals

Visitors to the alumni office during the
past week include M. M. Erwin, ’22, of
Honea Path, S. C., and Milton Thomasson,
24, and Frank Cannon, ’29, both of Char-
lotte.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of Rev. I. S. McElroy, D.D., father of Rev.
I. Stewart McElroy, '12, of Rutherfordton,
and Rev. W. P. McElroy, ’12, of Mont-
clair, N. J.; of Mrs. Sarah Hassell, mother
of*Rey. A, P. Hassell; D.D., 06, of Toku-
shima, Japan, and’“W. T. Hassell, ’17, of
Raleigh; of Mrs, Carrie L. Gorrell, sister
of Rev. J. E. Thacker, D.D., 90, of Nor-
folk, Va.

Dougald Coxe, ’23, has purchased the Mc-
Dowell News, at Marion, N. C., and is now
owner and editor of this newspaper.

$. A. Robinson, 99, has been made first
-uice-president, and W. T. Spencer, ’26, has
been made second vice-president of the Gas-
tonia Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. ‘Henderson Irwin, ’06, of Eureka, N.
C.; Dr. J. V. Hunter, ’94, of Asheboro, and
Dr. John T. Burrus, '01, of High Point,
have all recently been re-appointed to the
boards of health in their respective coun-
ties.

WANTED

Information about Davidson College
alumni, Please.send data, such as your
marriage, books you have written, of-
fices to which you have been elected, pal
ete., to Ernest Milton, alumni secre- ~~
tary.

'M. H. Caldwell, ’82, of Concord, has been
made an honorary member for life of the
Cabarrus County Bar Association,

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, .’79, dean of the
School of Education of the University of
North Carolina, has written “A History of
the Public Schools of North Carolina.” It
is described by one of the leading editors
of this state as “the most important North
Carolina book of the new year. This editor
devoted a half-column of comment to Dr.
Noble’s work.

Nee
W. H. Bordeaux, ’27, has been licensed
to preach by the Wilmington Presbytery.
Mr. Bordeaux completes his theological work
next May at Westminster Theological Sem-
inary, in Philadelphia.

Ralph Thomas, ’29, is now with the Jeffer-
son Standard Life Insurance Company, and
has his headquarters at his old home at Ba-
rium Springs. \

Rev. W. H. Goodman, ’02, of Kannapolis,
was recently the subject of a newspaper
article from that city, which gave a bio-
graphic sketch and told of his work there.

Rev. Jno. P. Johnston, ’27, is pastor of
the Associated Reformed Presbyterian
Church at Blacksburg, S. C.

Samuel P. Doss, ’27, of Thomasville, Ga.,
was recently admitted to the practice of law,

having successfully passed the Georgia bar
examination.

Rev. M.°G. Lyerly, ’27, has accepted a
call from a group of churches*near Reids-
ville, N. C. He has been located near Wil-
; son sinés completing his theological work
at Union Theological Seminary.

Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, ’23, pastor of the
‘Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, near
Charlotte, is now at Vanderbilt University
for a six weeks’ course.

. |
» Aubrey N. Brown, '29, is handling the
‘publicity of Union Theological Seminary,

and in the last issue of the Christian Ob-|

server had a very interesting news report
“As Others See Them.”

Rev. W. C. Copeland, 16, formerly pas
tor of a group of churches near Troy, is now
pastor of the Robinson Presbyterian Church
Harrisburg, N. C.

Augustus Leazer, 11, who has been in
charge of the Raleigh airport, has been pro
moted, and is now in charge of the Candle:
Field airport, at Atlanta.

W. A. Huey, ’15, is in charge of music
at the First Baptist Church in Atlanta.

Dr. Neal Anderson, 85, formerly pastor
of the Independent Presbyterian Church, of
Savannah, Ga., has moved to Winston-Sa-
lem, which will be headquarters for his fu-
ture work in interesting officers and mem-
bers of churches in soul-winning.

P. O. Bethea, ’22, has gone to Philadel-
phia, Pa., where he will be assistant to the
vice-president of Pennsylvania Mutual Life
Insurance Company. Mr, Bethea is located
in offices of this concern at Independence
Square.

Rev. R. F. Davidson, 23, is professor of

physical education at Hiram College, Hiram,
Ohio.

Dermott Shemwell, ’05, after residing in
Albany, Ga., for many years, is now located
in Winston-Salem, where he is president of
the Nye Odorless Incinerator Corporation,

Dr. W. G. Stevens, '97, has been re-

elected a member of the Rock Hill, S.C,
town council.

Alumni Deaths

Gen. G, C, Barnhardt, ’90
Brigadier General George Columbus Barn
hardt, of the class of 1890, died at Fort Bliss,
El Paso, Texas, on December 10, closing one
of the most notable careers of any army offi-
cer. A round of golf, according to press dis-
patches, was believed, to have aggravated a
toe infection, blood poisoning having caused

his death.

Gen. Barnhardt had only recently re-
turned from Honolulu, where he had_ been
stationed for two years following his com-
mission of brigadier general, June 23, 1927,
He had received an appointment to the
United States Military Academy while a
student at Davidson, and left here to begin
a military career, He graduated from West
Point with honors, participated in the Span-
ish-American War, was on the Mexican

‘order from 1913 to 1916, and during the |

World War was on General Pershing’s staff.
His other exploits have been numerous.

This Davidson alumnus had been decorated
with the Distinguished Service Medal, the
Croix de Guerre of France, with palm and
a silver star citation, and was made an offi-
cer of the French Legion of Honor.

Birmingham, Atlanta and
Greenville Alumn i Are
Scheduled for Dinners

Davidson Alumni Residing in Ala-
bama City Will Meet Tonight,
Atlanta on Monday and Green-

ville on Tuesday

PROF. CURRIE ATTENDS

Davidson Faculty Member Will At-
tend Latter Two Meetings—
Large Crowds Expected

Tonight at 6:30 o'clock, Davidson Col-
lege alumni residing in the vicinity of Bir-
mingham, will gather at the Bankhead Ho-
tel in Birmingham for the first meeting of
Davidson, men in that city. Ernest Milton,
alumni secretary, left Davidson last night
to speak to this group, and will remain in
Birmingham for two days, attending a meet-
ing of the alumni secretaries of six states.

Rev. Edward G. Lilly, ’19 graduate of
Davidson, has been the director of prelim-
inary arrangements for the dinner-meeting,
and has reported decided encouragement in
his efforts. Following the address of the
alumni secretary, the meeting will be thrown
open for discussion, both in matters refer-
ring to Davidson and the Alumni Associa-
tion, and as regards the perfecting of a per-
manent organization.

Prof. Archibald Currie, popular member
of the Davidson faculty, will join Mr. Mil-
ton in Atlanta Monday for a meeting of the
Davidson alumniain the Georgia metropolis
at the Henry Grady Hotel at 6:30 o'clock
that evening. Invitations to over 100 alumni
have been mailed out by the Atlanta officers,
who are Harllee Branch, Jr., '27, president;
S. C. Marks, ’31, vice-president, and W. S.
Woods, '27, secretary.

These two Davidson representatives will
leave Atlanta early Tuesday morning for
Greenville S. C. to conclude the itinerary
at a dinner-meeting of the Greenville chap-
ter. This will be given at the Woodside
Grill at 7:30 p. m., and invitations have
gone to alumni in that city and a number
of others within a radius of 50 miles. Officers
of the Greenville chapter are Frank Spratt,
04, president; J. I. Smith, ’25, vice-presi-
dent, and Dr. E. P. Davis, ’73, secretary.

New Addresses

In addition to hte new addresses listed
in the “Alumni Personals” columns, others
which have been obtained recently include:

J. B. Meacham, ’01, 1439 S. 29th St., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

D. D. Gibson, '07, 1522 36th Place, Nor-
wood, Birmingham, Ala.

William T. Witt, '16, Route 8, Shades
Mountain, Birmingham, Ala.

Dr. C. E. Cunningham, '22, Franklin, N. C.

Dr. A. M. McBryde, '24, Johns Hopkins
Hospital, Baltimore, Md.

Dr. N. B. Pearah, ’21, Office Suite 3,
Hotel Howard, Helena, Ark.

Rev. W. E. Crane, ’22, 691 Woodland
Ave., Atlanta, Ga.

Rev. T. P. Burgess, ’83, 623 S. McDon-
ough St., Decatur, Ga.

Lhe J
fa px
Printing and Engraving :
of SHIRTS AND SHORTS
Every Description Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts
—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
J. A. CANNON underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete free.
"311 Watt dom and enlarged on it a bit for men who've dropped their
hoa calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less, We are a little
; tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your
STANDARD PRINTING Ga: shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.
Garland Court Charlotte, N, C. P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
|
Winston-Salem, N. C.
De fa

Engagements
Sory-Guthery
“Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Sory, of Fredonia,
Ky., announce the engagement of their

daughter, Juanita, to Val J. Guthery, Jr.,
of Charlotte, the wedding to take place in
the spring.” Mr. Guthery graduated from
Davidson in 1927, and spent one year in
the Business School at Harvard. Since then
he has been associated in. business with his
father. Miss Sory is a graduate of Queens
College.

Collins-Gaffney

“Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Collins, of
Oklahoma City, Okla., announce the engage-
ment of their daughter, Ann Marie, to Wil-
liam Franklin Gaffney, of Davidson, the
marriage to take place in February.” Mr,
Gaffney was graduated from Davidson in
the class of 1930, and is now connected with
the Standard Oil Company, with headquar-
ters in Charlotte. Miss Collins was educated
in the Oklahoma schools.

Dr. Harding Invited
* By New York Alumni

Dr. C. R. Harding, senior member of
the Davidson faculty and head of the Greek
department, has been invited to be the guest
of honor at the annual dinner of the New
York chapter of the Davidson Alumni As-
sociation. This invitation was extended Dr.
Harding last week by Dr. A. B. Reese, ’17,
president of the organization. This chapter
annually chooses some local faculty mem-
ber or officer of the administration to be
their guest and speaker.

The spring meet, the date of which was
s¢f at the fall smoker, will be on March 18.
There are over 100 Davidson men residing
in the American metropolis, or its suburbs,
and annually over half of the number at-
tend the dinner. Fifty-one were present last
March when Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president
of Davidson, and Ernest Milton, alumni sec-
retary, were guests.

Dr.

G. R. Foster, ’16, Hurt Bldg., At-
lanta, Ga.
Dr. W. L. Pomeroy, '25, Elizabeth St.,
Waycross, Ga.
J. C. Nixon, 09, 2909 Seminary Ave.,
Chicago, Il.
Rev. P. B. Freeland, ’25, 804 Chestnut

St., Duncan, Okla.

Rev. S. L. Hunter, 18, Porterdale, Ga.

H. L. Morrill, Jr, ’26, 201-101 Marietta
St., Atlanta, Ga.

J. E. Millner, '26, 18 W. 76th St.. New
York, N. Y.

W. L. Crawford, Jr., '29, 6417 Drexel Ave,
Ruthmere Apts., Chicago, Ill.

J. M. Ulmer, ’30, 416 Robinson Bldg.,
Elmira, N.Y.

Great Interest Displayed
In Proposed Visit of Dr.
Lingle to Florida Cities

Definite Acceptance of Three Sug-
gested Dates Has Already Been
Received by the Alumni
Secretary

MANY INVITATIONS

Dr. Lingle Has Been Invited to
Make Several Other Addresses
in Florida

Considerable interest has been manifested
by Davidson College alumni in Florida in
the proposed series of alumni meetings which
will be attended by Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
president of the Ynstitution. Since a prelim-
inary suggestion of dates was made a week
ago, a definite acceptance has been received
from three of the chapters, and the remain-
ing one is momentarily expected.

Officers of the chapters have actively be-
gun work on these dinner-meetings, even
though it is approximately two weeks be-
fore Dr. Lingle will attend the first one at
Tampa. Officers of the chapters located in
separate cities have used the long distance
telephone to discuss their plans, and to as-
certain if the date proposed was _ satisfac-
tory.

Since announcement has gone to Florida
of these meetings, the Davidson president
has received numerous invitations to speak
at other than the alumni gatherings. He has
been invited to fill the pulpit of the Winter
Haven Presbyterian Church, of which Rev.
Edgar A. Woods, ’'19, is pastor, and the
pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church, of
which Dr. R. H. McCaslin, a trustee, is
pastor. An invitation has also come from
the Quincy, Fla., Rotary Club to speak at
their luncheon while in that city.

In addition to the Tampa meeting of Jan-
uary 30, Dr. Lingle is scheduled to be in
Jacksonville on’ February 2 ,and Quincy,
Fla., has been decided upon as the place
for the meeting of the S. G. N. F. (South
Georgia-North Florida) chapter on Feb-
ruary 3. Thé organization at Orlando is the
only one which has not been heard from as
yet.

Presidents of these four local chapters
are Dr. J. Frank Cranford, '06, of St. Peters-
burg, Southwestern Florida; R. M. Wether-
ell, ’08, of Orlando, Central Florida; Dr.
W. McL. Shaw, ’15, of Jacksonville, North-
eastern Florida, and Hampton Jennings, ’29,
of Thomasville Ga, §&. G. N. F. chapter.

R. M. Kennedy, ’29, is with the McDon-
ald Service Stores in Greensboro, and is
residing at the Y. M. C. A. in that city.

Fred N. Thompson, ’21, of Charlotte, has
been made treasurer of the Carolinas Branch
of the Associated General Contractors of
America.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

