DAVIDSON vs.
STATE IN
GREENSBORO

“SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

The Davidsonian

NEXT HOME
GAME, OCTOBER 17

Vol. XIX.

DAVIDSON. COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

I

No. 2

Rev. Marshall Woodson
Delivers Unusual Talk

on Conversion of Stone

Y. M. C. A. Vesper’s Speaker Shows
Difficulties Found

J. H. McKINNON PRESIDES

Opening Prayers Are Led by Mat-
thews and McConnel

Reverend Marshall Woodson, pastor of the
First Presbyterian’ Church of Salisbury, made
an inspiring talk at the “Y” vespers Sunday
evening, September 20. Reverend Woodson
graduated from Presbyterian College, playing
football there. He is a young man, and is espe-
cially interested in young people.

Jack McKinnon read the Scripture and in-
troduced the speaker. Bill Matthews and J. D.
McConnell led in prayer, while Bill Rule con-
ducted the singing. Horace Erwin rendered a
violin solo.

Reverend Woodson chose the fifth verse of
the sixteenth chapter of Matthew as his text.
“Let your light so shine before men, that they
May see your good works, and glorify your
Father which is in heaven.” The topic of his
address was “Leading a Christian Life on a
College Campus.” He stated that one of the
hardest places in the world to lead-a Christian
life was on a college campus. He also said that
he thought that Davidson was an exception to
that rule, because of the fine spirit and Chris-
tian influence on the campus. But he said that
one Christian could have more influence on a
college campus than in any other place.

To bring out his point more clearly, he used
the life of the great actor, Fred Stone, as an
example. According to Reverend Woodson,
leading a Christian life on the stage is one of
the hardest problems that faces an actor,

According to Reverend Woodson, a man is
closer to God when he is thinking, He used
the life of Stone to prove his point, as Stone
was homesick, and thinking of his wife and
children when he was converted,

After his conversion, Stone broadcast the
fact to the world that he was a Christian. To
his surprise he found that there are a lot more
Christians than he had- supposed there were.
: Reverend Woodson ‘stressed the fact that every
time Stone got a chance to do so, he mentioned
the fact that he was converted, and told about
all that God had done for him. Stone’s greatest
performance was his telling a vast audience of
his conversion.

At the last, another point of Stone’s Chris-
tian life was brought out. His cheerfulness
after being terribly hurt in an airplane acci-
.dent. Thus, Reverend Woodson compared the
good that Stone had done to the many things

that could be done on any American college
campus.

Language Teachers
Meet in Novembey

The fourth annual meeting of the South
Atlantic Modern Language Association will be
held November 27-28 at the University of
South Carolina, Columbia, S. C. Every high
school and college teacher of English, French,
German, or Spanish of the two Carolinas, Geor-
gia and Florida is invited to join the associa-
tion and attend this meeting.

Dr. H. Carrington Lancaster, professor of
French in Johns Hopkins University, will de-
liver the principal address of the meeting. The
Chairman appointed for the various committees
the following men: German, C. A. Krummel,
Duke University; French, A. Vermont, Con-
verse College; Spanish, F. K. Fleagle, David-
son College; English, J. B. Hubbell, Duke
University.

This association was organized in Atlanta,
Ga., in 1928. The Purpose of the body is to
promote the study of these languages, as well
as keep in close contact with the present day
changes which come at various times. The offi-
cers are as follows: E. J. Erwin, president,
Davidson College; C. F. Hamff, secretary,
Emory University. The executive commmittee is
G. C. Taylor, University of N. C.; A. Ver-
mont, Converse College; Iola Kay Eastburn,
Brenau; E. V. Gage, Florida State College

for Women, and F. W. Bradle Uni i
South Carolina. Ae ee

The meeting in 1929 was held at Spartanburg,
S. C,, Converse College being the host. Last
year Davidson College entertained the delegates
during this session held on the Hill,

Bud Raker, of Lexington, N. C., who has recently been elected Captain of the Davidson
Wildcats. Raker has been shifted from his old position at Tackle to End.

Davidson Teams

Introduce

Pass to Southern Football

Weekend Parties
Draw Many Visitors

Various Fraternities Hold House-
parties After Elon Game

The first house party of the 1931-1932 ses-
sion at Davidson proved to be unusually pop-
ular, with one of the largest crowds of visitors
ever present up here for that occasion. There
were approximately one hundred girls up for
the week-end, with a great many more for the
game only. A great many alumni, families, and
friends of Davidson also came up on the occa-
sion of the first football game, the scrap with
Elon.

The game was of course the main feature of
the program of entertainment, although at all
of the fraternity houses there was an informal
party of some sort.

One fraternity, however, the Pi Kappa Alpha,
made up for the lack of the usual entertain-
ment in Charlotte by having a dinner party at
Statesville with the New York Serenaders fur-
nishing the music.

As complete a list of the girls present for
the game and the week-end as could be gotten
follows:

BETA THETA PI: Misses Susan Hill, Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.; Ida Patterson, Concord, N.
C.; Betsy Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Janet Mather,
Charlotte, N. C.; Mary McCoy, Concord, N. C.;
Nancy Nalle, Charlotte, N. C.; Sara Steagall,
Statesville, N. C.; Douglas Rankin, Charlotte,
N. C.; Julia Stinson, Charlotte, N. C.; Jean
Porter, Charlotte, N. C.; Rosalie Rogers, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Agnes Leake, Greensboro, N. C.;
Barbara Witherspoon, Greensboro, N. C.;
Mary Louise Allen, Wadesboro, N. C.; Louise
Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Stowe, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Belle Ward Stowe, Charlotte, N.
C.; Henrietta Whisnant, Charlotte, N. C.;
Susan Gregory, Greensboro, N. C., and Lura
Abercrombie, Salisbury, N. C.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Misses Sara Walser,
Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Dulin, Charlotte, N.
C.; Geraldine Harris, Charlotte, N. C.; Vir-
ginia Killey, Charlotte, N. C.; Aileen Brown,
Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Glenn, Charlotte, N. C.;
Virginia Pegram, Charlotte, N. C.; Evalyn
Ritchie, Charlotte, N. C.; Ruth Vaughn, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Billie Deaton, Statesville, N. C.;
Mary Belle Deaton, Statesville, N. C.; Anna
French, Statesville, N. C.; Sylvia Steele, States-
vilie, N. C.; Emma Mills, Statesville, N. C.;
Jane Cregg, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Langdon
Manley, York, Pa.; Mildred Knight, Greens-
boro, N. C.; Frances Williams, Greensboro,
N. C.; Lib Thompson, Davidson, N:-C.; Mabel
Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.

KAPPA ALPHA: Misses Louise Melchor,
Mooresville, N. C.; Jane King, Johnston City;
Tenn.; Dot Hand, ‘Charlotte, N. C.; Annie

(Continued on page 6)

1906 Edition of Wildcats First to
Complete Forward Pass in
- Southern Football History

WOODRUFF INFORMANT
Defeats Georgia 15-0 in Memorable
Game of October 13

Davidson about 25 years ago used the first for

tory of Southern Football.”
In his book he says, “The first record of :
forward pass being successfully used is ot

Davidson used a short pass over the

we
It hac

only a means of making short gains.
not yet become a scoring potentiality.”

present location of the players is: Dr. R. C
Sadler, Vineland, N.
rWalker, of Charlotte, left tackle; Dr. C.
Lentz, of Albemarle, left guard; the late Dr
N. B. Edgerton, of Columbia, S. C., center
lr. R. Allen, of Waynesville, right tackle; J
(Continued on page 6)

It will be news to many Davidson men that!

ward pass in the history of southern football. |
The late Fuzzy Woodruff, noted sports writer
at that time, makes this assertion in his “Tis- |

October 13, 1906, when Davidson defeated Geor- |
gia, 15 to 0. The reports’ of the game say that
middle
of the line with great effect. In fact, the more
read of that year, the more convinced we
become that coaches saw in the forward pass

The line-up ‘for the Davidson team and_ the
C,, left end; Rev. J. M.

M.

Dr. R. W. Spicer, Winston-Salem, right guard;

Wildcats to Clash With

Dramatic Group to

|

The Monkey’s Paw to Be Given on
Homecoming Day

Present First Play

| The year’s first presentation, announce the

Red and Black Macquers, will be made on the
evening of Home-Coming Day, October 17th,
and will be W. W. Jacobs’ famous story, “The
Monkey's Paw,” dramatized in three scenes by
N. Parker. of characters,
| which there are five in the play, will be made
ifrom experienced members of the society. An
opportunity for Freshmen and other interested
members of the student body to exercise their

| Louis Choice of

| Wolfpack

| dramatic talent will be made with one-act plays |
jat present and with longer dramas later on in |

‘the season, Tryouts, it is said, will be an-
/nounced as soon as “The Monkey's Paw’ is

well on its way.

The play, which was originally produced at |
{the Haymarket Theatre in London on October |

6, 1903, is the tale of a wondrous monkey’s

| paw which is said and believed by legend to |

| . . ~
grant any three wishes to its possessor. Ser-

geant-Major Morris has happened upon this
mysterious charm in his peregrinations and re-
turning finally to England presents it to the

heuscholders, who employ the paw in an en-
deavor to pay off a long-standing» mortgage on
their property.

impels the old couple to wish a second and a

{third time, which, if one has any imagination |

\for the supernatural, will» produce an atmos-
| ‘
phere of suspense and dread.

Vanderbilt Speaker

Is Heard in Lecture

| Dr. Edward Mims Spoke on the

Subject, “Bright Intervals,” Last
Wednesday Evening

i
1

_|derbilt University. Dr. Mims’ subject ‘for the
| night was “Bright Intervals.”

who are to be brought here to speak. Dr. Shew-
|make is chairman of the faculty committee on
jlectures and selected Dr. Mims as the first
l speaker because of his reputation as a lecturer
land his importance in educational circles. This
‘| noted educator has spoken twice before to Da-
‘| vidson students and has made himself zonspicu-
ous not only as a speaker but also as an-au-
thor. Because of his ability he is in great de-
*|mand and is a favorite at Chautauqua, New
; | York, during the summer season,

Dr. Mims said that he got the ideas for his
in last summer. The
| weather at that time was very rough, rainy, and
| foggy. The newspaper report would oftentimes

‘| lecture while London

OPEN FORUM

On Sunday evening, October 4th, the
Y. M. C. A. is to conduct its Y Ves-
pers Service in the form of an open
forum. The meeting will be conducted
by Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of
English Bible. Instead of throwing the
meeting open to impromptu questions
and answers, a box has been placed
at the entrance. of Chambers and will
be there through next Tuesday morn-
ing, September ‘6th, to accommodate
those students having problems that
they would like to have discussed.

Carl R. Pritchett, Y. M. C. A. Sec-
retary, expressed his earnest desire
that all men having problems of the-
ological’ nature or otherwise would
please write them on a slip of paper
and deposit them in the above men-
tioned box. The slips need not be
signed, according to Mr. Pritchett.
This is the first meeting of its kind to
be conducted on the Davidson cam-
pus and a sincere degree of interest
is solicited from the student-body by
the Y. M. C. A.

read: “Mostly cloudy and rainy today—bright
,intervals between clouds.” During the “bright
intervals” he would see the sun shining through
the clouds, the green grass, ete. The whole
made a beautiful picture and seemed at times
to be a “transfiguration.”

Then Dr. Mims made the practical applica-
|tion. While to many of us, life seems hard, full
}of drudgery, and disappointments, still every
life has some “bright intervals’—“bright mo-
|ments.” We should look at life through these
great moments of insight into the real meaning
| of life.

Many of us find college disappointing. Edu-

|cation seems not to be worth the cost «of time
'and money. We may be disappointed in our
| professors, and they may be disappointed_in us.
| Still there are the “bright intervals” in college
|life. We should look for them.
The fine arts represent the bright intervals
}in the lives of some men. Not all literature is
long. The most famous poems are short. It is
not the length of an essay that makes it im-
portant. It very probably is a sentence here or
there that will stir something in a man. It is
the quality of the great moment, and not the
quantity.

A man should not be judged by his ordinary
life. He should be judged by his great moments.

(Continued on page 6)

A most valuable and interesting lecture was | sit

Dr. Mims is the first of a series of speakers |

Wolfpack in Night Game
ee Saturday in Greensboro

5. =

Davidson’s First Big Five Tilt Expec-
| ted to Draw Fans in Large Numbers

FIRST GAME FOR STATE

Younger to Use Set of Plays With-
held in Elon Game

mes

Dayidson makes her initial bid for Big Five
Wildeats meet N. C. State
on Saturday. The game will be played at night

honors when the

and a good crowd should be present as Wake
at Chapel

Forest and Carolina go. into action
Hill during the afternoon.

The Wildeats won a hectic battle from the
last when they played under
the are lights’in Greensboro’s World War Me-
morial Stadium where the fracas will be staged

year

this year. The score was 12-0, and 13-0 the pre-
The will out
for vengeance and the Wildcats will be deter-
mined

vious year. pack certainly be

to repeat their victories, so a snappy
scrap will be assured,

The guidance of the Aggies is in the hands
fof Coach “Clipper” Smith this year who has
charge of them for the first time. Great inter-
est is being shown in his 1931 edition of North
Carolina State College. Of course a. stiff train-
ing schedule has been in Morning

and afternoon scrimmages, perfection of plays

progress.

credulous Mr. and Mrs, White, impecunious | @"d individual drills, hard workouts consisting

lof driving, tackling, and blocking, and practice
lin scoring’ plays have been the program for the
| past several days. Coach Monk continues the

An unexpected event following the first wish) Tegular drill and works to perfect the shift

| attack.

The injured list for North Carolina State
| still ranges around four, but most of these men
| will probably be ready for the game on Satur-
day. Rudy Seitz, 200-pound letterman tackle;
Ridénhour and Matlack, two prospective first
{team guards, and Don Wilson, a half, were on
| the injured list. Davidson has been lucky so
\far this year. “Mick” Bradshaw is the only
| member of the squad who has received an in-
| jury and he has practically recovered. No one
was hurt in the Elon game, so we have a good
chance to meet State in full force.

| The both been
iwing the blues off and on since the season

coaches of institutions have

|given in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday | began. Coach Smith claims the team is not up
|night, September 16, 1931, by Dr. Edward|to par and isn't running any too well as yet.
Mims, head of the English department at Van-| Coach Monk needs reserves first of all.

The Wolfpack line-up is still tentative. Back-
| field talent has been showing up unusually well,
John Lanning, Dink Dellinger, Bob Cook, and
Mope Cumisky getting loose Yor good gains
frequently during scrimmage. Kinken was also
a consistent ground-gainer. All these men have
| good chances for berths on the State machine.
; Willie Duke, who has been shifted from end to
guard, Yhas demonstrated that he must be con-
sidered as a successor to the place left vacant
by the graduation last spring of Mack Stout,
who captained the 1930 Wolfpack. Red Espey
at center and Captain Cobb at tackle were high
lights in the line. Gurneau is at end and ought
to do well this season. He performed brilliantly
in wrestling here last winter. S

30th teams will be on the qui vive when
Saturday rolls around. State has not performed
so far this season, but will be rearin’ to go.
The Elon game did not conclusively prove any-

(Continued on page 6)

Jenkins is Elected
to Staff of Yowl

Gaither Jenkins was recently elected business
manager of the Yow! for this year by the pub-
lications committee. He succeeds Archie Baker,
who did not return to Davidson, but went to
Tulane Medical School. Gaither is a member
of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fra-
ternity, International Relations Club, was on
the Quips and Cranks editorial staff, and was
on the business staff of the Yowl last year. He
is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fra-
ternity.

‘The Yowl is a new magazine at Davidson,
this being its second year of publication. The
business ’‘manager and the editor-in-chief, Vereen
Bell, desire to increase the circulation of this
magazine as much ‘as possible. The Yow! will
be larger and the cover design will be changed.
Present plans indicate three issues this year,
the first of which will appear on November Ist.

Reeves. Pope is the head of the art depart-

ment and will have charge of all that work.
