THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1931

pil tilt

mice

z

—

OLDEST DAVIDSON GRADUATE DIES

DR. JOHN J. STRINGFELLOW

ALUMNI DEATHS

Dr. J. J. Stringfellow, ’60

Dr. John James Stringfellow, who was
the oldest living alumnus and living gradu-
ate of Davidson College, died at his home in
Chester, S. C., on March 5, at the age of
93 years. He entered Davidson in 1856, 30
years after the corner stone of the institution
was laid, and graduated in 1860. He is the
last survivor of that. class, being preceded
to the grave two years ago by Rev. I. Con-
dor, of Virginia, who was 95 years of age
at the time of his death.

This noted Davidson alumnus heard the
first and final shots of the War Between
the States. He was at Fort Sumter where

with that institution: Death followed

ago.

the highest honors of his class

sity of Sorbonne, Paris.
Returning to America,,

University,

an
operation which he underwent several weeks

After graduating from Davidson, Dr. Bur-
ney went to Europe for further study, and
obtained his master of arts and doctor of
philosophy degrees from Heidelberg Col-
lege, in Germany, where he graduated with
s. He was a
student for one semester at the University
of Leipsic, and one semester at the Univer-

he was awarded
a fellowship in chemistry at Johns Hopkins
Baltimore, Md., where he stud-

INVITATION

All Davidson College alumni are
hereby extended a cordial invitation
to attend the annual “Athletic
Night” program, which will be held
in the auditorum of Chambers Buld-
ing on Tuesday, March 17th, at 8
o'clock. Important athletic awards
will be made on that occasion, and
as a feature, Dean S. V. Sanford, of
the University of Georgia, and for
over ten years president of the
Southern Conference, has been in-
vited as the principal speaker. “Ath-
letic Night” is comparatively a new
event at Davidson, but since its in-
ception three years ago has been
gaining in popularity and appeal,
both tothe students and to the
alumni. 8

D. C. Athletic Association.

Alumni Marriages

Miller-Bonner (
Rev. Patrick Dwight Miller, 1922 gradu-
ate of Davidson, and Dr. Lila Morse Bonner,
beth of Atlanta, were married in the Asso-
ciated Reform Presbyterian Church at Due
West, S. C., on March 7. Due West was
the former home of Mrs. Miller.
Mr. Miller taught school one year before

56 and a 1902 graduate of Davidson, died
at his home in Anniston, Ala., on March 7.
He had been critically ill for several days.
At the time of his death he had completed
his twentieth year as pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church at Anniston.

Dr. Hodges studied at Princeton and
Union Theological Seminaries after his
graduation from Davidson, and held his first
pastorate in Kentucky, later going to Union-
town, Ala. From there he went to Anniston
20 years ago. Dr. Hodges was prominent in
the life-of Anniston, and was recently a dele-
gate to the International Rotary convention.
His church also had given him a trip to
the Holy Land.

D. P. Douglas, ’21, 6f Birmingham, Ala.,
a, step-son, is among the survivors.

Dr. B. G. Team, '04
Dr. Benjamin Goss Team, 1904 graduate
of Davidson, died suddenly in New York

Dr. C. R. Harding Leaves
Monday on Alumni Trip

Meeting Will Be Held in Baltimore,
Philadelphia and New York—
Richmond Chapter Meets

Later

Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor at
Davidson College, leavef’ next Monday aft-
ernoon for a series of alumni meetings in
Baltimore, New York and Philadelphia on
the nights of Mafch. 17, 18, and 19, re-
spectively. Dr. Harding was invited by the
New York chapter to be their guest, and
these additional gatherings were arranged
for this well-known faculty member.

His first stop will be Baltimore, the meet-
ing to be held that night at 8:30 o’clock at
the Baltiniore Club, a buffet supper to be

he entered Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., from which he was gradu-
ated. He had a church in the’ mountains’ of
North Georgia for a while before he be-
came educational secretary of the executive
committee of home missions of the South
Presbyterian Church,
Atlanta.

Mrs. Miller is. a graduate of Woman's
College in Due West, and received her M.D.

with headquarters in

degree from the University of Virginia. She
practiced in Greenwood, S. C., before going
to Atlanta. Mr. and Mrs. Miller will be at
home in Atlanta.

Bishop-Mann

An announcement was recently seen in
The Raleigh News and Observer of the
marriage of Reginald H. Bishop, 1928 grad-
uate of Davidson, of Belhaven, N. C., and
Miss Hazel Mann, of Swan Quarter, N. C.
the marriage taking place at the home of
the Methodist pastor at Washington, N. C.
No other details have been obtained, except
that it is known that Mr. Bishop has been
working in Belhaven since his graduation.
es

Notice
TO THE COLLEGE BOYS

Why pay $1.25 for half soles
when you can take them to

the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Births |

George Brockenbrough, Jr., 07, and Mrs.
Brockenbrough, of Tryon, N. C., announce
the birth of a son, George, III, on March 4.

Rev. Norman Johnson, ’15, and Mrs. John-
son, of Blacksburg, Va., announce the birth
of a son, Norman McClure, Jr., on Feb-
ruary 28.

served during the course of the meeting. On
Wednesday, he meets with the New York
chapter at the Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th
St., for a dinner at 7 o’clock. On his return
trip to Davidson, he will stop at Philadel-
phia to meet with that chapter. The time
and place of the latter dinner had not been
received at Davidson Monday when The Da-
vidsonian went to press.

Dr. Harding will be greeted in New York
by one of the largest groups of alumni in
any one city in America. With the excep-
tion of Charlotte, the American metropolis
has the largest concentrated group. Over 125
Davidson men residing within a radius of
50 miles of New York have received invi-
tations. The number in and near Baltimore
and Philadelphia approximates 30.

Dr. A. B. Reese, ’17, is president of the
New York group; Dr. Thos. P. Sprunt, '03,
is president of the Baltimore chapter, and
Dr. J. P. Hendrix, ’25, is president of the
Philadelphia alumni.

Two other meetings which had been tenta-
tively planned this week for Columbia, S. C.,
and Augusta, Ga., will not be held until
some time in April, upon the advice of alumni
in these two cities,

‘April 2 is a date which has been suggested
to Rev. D. T. Caldwell, 14, of Petersburg,
Va., president of the Richmond chapter, for

»|the time of the alumni gathering in Rich-

mond. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson, is to be in Richmond that day,
and would remain over. for a dinner with
Davidson alumni there.

O¢ ‘omplete Service

for School Publications

Ynnuals
Meaneazines
Catalous

Jieu Books

the first shot was fired, and was at Appo-
mattox when General Robert E. Lee sur-
rendered. When the war broke out, he was
studying medicine at the University . of
South Carolina, but enlisted with the fa-
mous Calhoun Guards of the Sixth Regi-
ment, and was the last survivor of 360 sol-

diers who left Chester, S. C., during the
war.

Dr. Stringfellow was wounded several
times. He suffered two wounds in the Battle
of Seven Pines, in 1862, which caused him
to be absent from the ranks for two months.
Later he was wounded at the Battle of the
Wilderness, and a third time he suffered 4
wounds in 1865, two days before the sur-

ba UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

and get the same sole with
better work for only 85¢ Queen City PrintingCo.

Try Us and See _ Chartlotte.D.C.
Cc. A. KENNEDY, Prop. Coat

ied and taught one year before coming to
the University of South Carolina in 1880.
While a professor there. he also served as
state chemist and also as chemist of the agri-
cultural experiment station of South Caro-
lina. He was made a full professor, and al-
though he had passed the retirement age by
many years, he continued in,an active role
in the chemistry department.

Rey. P. H. Burney, ’80, of Waco, Texas,
is among the survivors.

on February 24, at the age of 48 years. Dr.
Team had been practicing medicine in New
York for the past several years, but spent
part of the year at his old home in Cam-
den, S. C.

After finishing here, he attended the North
Carolina Medical College, operated adjoining
the campus, and also obtained his master of
arts degree from Davidson in 1909. He took
a special medical. course at Cornell Univer-
sity, and practiced medicine in Ridgeway,
S. C., Camden, and later in New York.

J..L. Team, ’11, who now resides in the
West, is among the survivors.

d\KOS

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia HAS

A Distinguished Faculty

Nineteen Buildings, on a

‘Fifty Acre Campus

A Moderate Endowment, and

Many Scholarships

For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

Rev. S. E. Hodges, D.D., '02
Rev. Samuel Edgar Hodges, D.D., aged

On his return from the war, Dr. String-
fellow opened a drug store, which he oper-
ated for many years until failing health
caused him to retire. He remained active
in his farming operations, however, until a
short time before his death, and when inter-
viewed two years ago by Davidson officials
he had just had a two-hour conference with
the overseer of his plantation. Dr. String-
fellow was blind during the last 20 years
of his life.

In his student days, this oldest alumnus
was one of the eight original members of
the first social fraternity ever established at
Davidson.

He is survived by William C. Stringfel-
low, of the class of 1866, who is now 90
years of age. He resides near Chester, S. C.

23
oe

Printing and Engraving
of

Every Description

SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts
—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We've taken track-athlete free-
dom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little
tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your
shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

P. M. CONWAY .
27 Rumple

Dr. W. B. Burney, ’75

Dr. William B. Burney, of the class of
1875, died at a Columbia, S. C., hospital
on February 28. At the time of his death
he was head of the chemistry department
of—the—University of South Carolina, and

had completed over, a half-century’s work #

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.

