NS

> THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 25, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

|

D. GRIER _MARTIN.... Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY -----Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF ’
Bot Os: GU MRICAN 1 Gcbelclicccksuscddussusbastas Managing Editor
DigeD AMCs ROD loderes d6uusécccbicdsadaccaakedaes Managing Editor
iol MOGAIs i liadcdndocdcbacetsdaccsccsacdancs Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS..... -Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.__...-. -Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENS! Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLI -Feature Editor
H. W._ ERVIN.... ----Review Editor
oH BEALS WalUeae hed be Soc uc su uicineecdscsccbiusauae, Exchange Editor
. C. DWELLE, JR -Associate Editor
WiiS; -LRASes2.2 2: . -Associate Editor
Wir SMATIHE WSidicauie ci cese cece -Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON....-... Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE........ Assistant Business Manager
Fi W. WHITTED- .-Assistant Business Manager
Wis Rie DLORMUIW talscuccscdescescesesesues Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON. solicitor
}: Ny INGU oeesoes licitor
bigearh
A. H.

SACHA vestas soncscuseecousuctuctossgsnaueccae Vice-President

Wiese ye MU gl Ss ruven cndbcuse caucecausenuns Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. FE. BAILEY R. E, LORRAINE

g: E. BOY FE. L. POWELI

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A, F, SCHENCK

O. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY,
JACK WILLIAM

NOVEMBER 25, 1931

gk W.
J. A. HUNTER

|

Can there be a more horrible object in exist-
ence than an eloquent man not speaking the truth?

—Carlyle.
PARAGRAPHICS

The problem of the exact nature of the charity
football game to be played in North Carolina has
aroused a great deal of interest among followers of
the sport. A great many plans have been proposed by
the Governor’s committee and the public is to be ,al-
lowed to choose the one they think most desirable.

D

This-issue of the paper is dedicated to those mem-
bers of the football team who are playing their last
game for the Wildcats tomorrow.

BEE PESC S| 5 yc ela

The amount of advertising in this issue of the paper
makes necessary the use of eight pages rather than
the usual six.

ie 2

The Thanksgiving service at the church should
prove well worth the time. Thanksgiving Day is set
aside as a day for the giving of thanks and is, for
that purpose, used very little.

——ESE—

The usual Davidson rains have been prominent this
year through their absence. We venture that they
will make up for the lost time when they do arrive.

D.

May we add as a reminder to anyone with a faulty
memory—We play Wake Forest tomorrow in Char-
lotte!

——__P}
THANKSGIVING

Over three centuries ago the Mayflower brought
the Pilgrims to the shores of Massachusetts. They
had come from Holland, and after a rough voy-
age in which there was much hardship and _ suf-
_ fering, they came in sight of the bleak cold shores
of the northern part of what is now the United
States, Suffering from the lack of food, the cold,
and the hostility of the aborigines, they passed
their first year in-what seemed to them the hope-
less task of conquering an apparently barren
land. Far from completing this self-given task,
they came to the first harvest time.

These Pilgrims had much for which they were
not thankful, and they were justified in not being
grateful for their hardships. But at the end of the
harvest period the settlers gatheted ‘together in a
period of general thanksgiving to their God for
His providence over them and His goodness to
them. They could be grateful for their lives, for
their freedom of religion and government, for
the task which lay before them; and they were
grateful. Therefore they dedicated one day in the
year as one on which to render thanks for the
favors and mercies of God.

Since that time the last Thursday in November
has been declared “Thanksgiving Day” through-
out the land. How much more do we have for
which to be thankful than did those courageous
ancestors of ours three centuries ago! Yet we fail
to show the same spirit, and often any spirit at all,
of praise and thanksgiving to Him Who has given
us so much.

THE TEST

The student body extends to Dr. Miles and to
the Y. M. C. A. a vote of thanks for the fine fall
services which they have conducted. “Albert Mc-
Lure was responsible for the musical side of the
meetings and was highly successful in this work.

The interest and enthusiasm shown by the stu-
dents was gratifying and there is no doubt of the
fact that a great many of them were highly im-
pressed at the time. The real test of the value of
the services comes in the lasting effect that the
services have on the student body. It is compara-
tivly easy to become interested in the talks of a

THE DANGER OF PROVINCIALISM

The average man considers that the whole uni-
verse revolves around his unique personality.
Therefore if, you tell him that he is provincial, he
will usually pass it off as a mark of jealousy or
just gross ignorance. But whether he is willing to
admit it or not, one of the most prevalent of sins
in the average American today is that of provin-
cialism. He cannot see beyond his limited horizon,
even considering those who do as rank high-brows.
Oftentimes he is narrow and prejudiced in his
views. ;

Of all localities that should be free of this, the
college campus and town should certainly be far
up on the list; for with all their varied activities
relative to the world at large, one would suppose
them least guilty. But this is not so, always. Some
self-satisfied colleges crawl into their shells of in-
difference and grow aged and venerable, totally
oblivious to the pulse and thought of the world.

Where this cankerous growth rests most secure-
ly is in the average college undergraduate. He is,
as a rule, provincial in both thought and interest.
Ask the general student how he divides his time in
reading the paper, for example. Here will be the
general answer: one minute on the front page;
two minutes on the daily comic section; ten min-
utes on the sports section. As a result, he is well
up on the current football standings, but pretty
hazy as regards the British policy towards India.
Ask him who plays halfback on Notre Dame and
he'll tell you, but ask him who is secretary of state
and he will be forced to guess. As for reading
magazines dealing with contemporary thought and
research, this is far beyond his ken. Therefore his
slant on current thought and affairs is influenced
almost entirely by some one like Bernarr. McFad-
den and his life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi-
ness magazines. -

Destructive criticism does very little good unless
accompanied by a generous portion of constructive

criticism, as prohibitionists and anti-prohibition-

ists will affirm. Why should provincialism be a
particular characteristic of the American people,
and even more specifically of the Ameritan col-
leges? The European educational institutions seem
to be less guilty than do their brother institutions
in America. Perhaps it is because they haven't
subscribed to the commercialization so widespread
in this country. Then, too, they are thrown into
closer relationships with foreign peoples and lands,
a factor that is particularly broadening.

It is to be greatly deplored that the average
American does not avail himself of the score of
opportunities that would tend to give him a broad-
er outlook and knowledge. Libraries are seldom
over-crowded. The much-abused radio brings. the
greatest of operatic stars to one’s own home. The
leading figures of the day are constantly speaking,
but seldom listened to. A man will become broad
when he will listen to, know, and understand an-
other individual or nation’s problems, and relate
them to his own. We have a few men of this type
in public service today. A striking example is
Owen D. Young. One of the leading business men
of the time, a keen and dependable man in an
international crisis, Young, to quote Vanity Fair,
“stands ready, if necessary, according to a wit-
ness before the U. S. Senate Committee, even to
furnish advice to nursing mothers.” Though per-
haps a bit strong, this is far more of a compliment
than anything that could be accorded the average
self-centered American. ;

Whether one lives in New York or Davidson,
the same thing is true. The great majority never
get out of their rut of narrow, standardized, preju-
diced provincialism, But those who do, experience
a satisfaction and joy that will never come to their
fellows. Someone has truly said) that the magni-
tude of the ends you seek and serve is the. meas-
ure of your personality.

GOD SEND US DREAMERS!

All great achievements have at one time been dreams
in the minds of visionaries—in the good sense.

The dreamer is not necessatily merely a dreamer.
Joseph not only dreamed, but could interpret dreams and
outline and. follow a wise course of action.

No other generation has seen so many dreams come
true as this generation, The airship, the airplane, the
telephone, the submarine, and radio were mere dreams a
few years ago. Now they are realities, because dreamers
believed in their dreams.

Dreamers, men with imagination and faith, dreamed of
the abolition of slavery, and slavery disappeared.

Howard dreamed of prison reform, which meant hu-
manizing conditions of living in prison, and the whole
penal system of England was changed.

It has always been dreamers that have fought against
tyranny. Vacant thrones today show how far they have
succeeded. :

Dreamers dreamed of the time when the saloon would
be banished, and it is gone.

Dreamers today see the time when prohibition will be
effective, and the reptile press will cease to glorify viola-
tion of law. That day will dawn, too.

Duelling has gone because sane men saw the monstrous
injustice of it,

There are many today who dream of the abolition of
poverty. That seems a long way off, but it may be nearer
than we suppose. ;

Dreamers like Edison, Morse, and the Wright brothers
will continue to dream beneficent dreams along material
lines; and others will dream of better living, nobler
aspirations, sublime achievements in the realm of spirit.

We need dreamers today. God send us dreamers!

forceful speaker, to be out for the meetings every
night, to be eftthusiastic at the moment; but the
hard test comes in putting some of the principles
into practice. Will we as a student body do this?

|
|
|
|
|

“.. .Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

We are both honored and delighted to print the fol-
lowing poem, and note, submitted by a friend of David-
son, Anne Blackwell Payne, who has been living in New
York City:

“Being a sort of daughter and sister to Davidson,
I'd be pleased and honored to take up a little of
your space. May I?—A. B. P.”

MEN

Playing with strange,
Momentous toys,
Men are such funny
Little boys.

No matter how old,
Important, wise—
They like us to listen
And sympathize.

And ask them questions
Of things they know,
And if this or that

Ts really so.,

With a weakness for ruffles
And curls and trains,
And an old suspicion

Of brogues and brains.

Notwithstanding

This year of grace,

There are still small echoes
Of “woman’s place.”

Though pedestals are passe

They swear,

I believe theyd rather

Have us there.

—Anne Blackwell Payne.
Miss Payne once lived in Davidson, and sends greet-

ings to all her old friends. She has been living for some
time in New York, studying at Columbia University, and
writing poetry. She has recently published ‘‘Released,”
a book of verse (The University of North Carolina
Press), and poems of hers have appeared in many news-
papers and magazines, such as The New York Times,
The New York Sun, Good Housekeeping, Carolina
Magasine, and Buccaneer, Literary Lantern, and many
others. We humbly offer our appreciation of this recog-
nition and interest, and hope that Miss Payne will let
us hear from her again.

BELIEVE IT OR BELIEVE IT!

Strange as it seems, Mr. East and Mr. West, of the
North, are rooming together in South Dormitory at
Davidson. The two students are Lee West and R. G.
East, both of Barium Springs, and they reside at
present in 16 South. This id: is lly
striking, since the two men, friends over a long pe-
riod of years, had not considered the dissimiliarity of
their names, when placed together, and that another
direction than those indicated by their names would
be involved when they chose South Dormitory. O
East is East, and West is West, and now the twain
have met!

THERE IS SAFETY IN SLUMBERS.

PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN STONE HOUSES
SHOULD NOT THROW GLASSES.

ANY DOG CAN BE A COMMUNITY SCENTER.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

“We sho’ gonna beat Wake Forest !"—Premier Enoch.

To date, Enoch has correctly predicted the out-
come of eight out of nine varsity football games of
the season. His batting average stands at .8500, and
will jump to .9000 if Davidson busts for once and
all the Deacon Jinx on Turkey Day, tomorrow, in
Charlotte.

And have you seen Doc Charley’s assortment of “rab-
bit foots’? If we don’t drive those Deacons back to the
Forest tomorrow, it won’t be the fault of Doc Charley.
No sah!

Have you read The Columnist Murder,” (Farrer and
Rhinehart) ? A column writer (*!$ace&) is “put on the
spot,” and (mercifully) murdered. For their clues the
sleuths go to the column that he had written the day
previous, for implications. 340 persons are mentioned in
the past 4 columns!

To track the wily villain among these hundreds of
“uh-huh,” “really !”, and “yeah?” types of human beings,
is about as hopeless a search as looking for a certain
paramoecium suffering dementia preacox, in the Indian
Ocean, or as finding a book by Elinor Glynn on the
Davidson campus. The murdered columnist, it seems, must
go to his last resting place unavenged. ;: . . Well I won't
ruin it for you by telling you the rest of it. Because I

DES ENTREFILETS

The editor of the Columbia University Spectator
has raised quite a stir by his attack on the “semi-
professionalism” of college football. The alumni and
football players of Columbia at once set up a.howl
of protest and the staff of the paper was threatened
with personal violence by several members of the
team. The Spectator has found an ardent supporter
in the person of Christian Gauss, dean of Princeton
College. Dean Grauss in an article called “Our Pro-
fessional. Football Amateurs,” charges that practically
every college in the country has subsidized athletics.
He does not exempt even those schools which es-
caped from the censure of the Carnegie Foundation
bulletin last year.

In his article he tells of many cases in which alumni
had paid athletes and in some cases without the knowledge
of the institute or the athlete. He tells of one alumnus
who increased the salary of an employee whose son was
a good fullback; and of another who paid a star a
monthly fee in order to hold the young man’s services so
that he might manage a farm for him four years later.

An editorial in the Columbia Alumni News urged that
the University officials take action on the statement of
Reed Harris, editor of the Spectator, that he “is ready
and willing to substantiate any of the charges made
against the football conditions at Columbia.”

According to William P. Tolley, president of Allegheny
College, the liberal arts college, even in our highly
specialized industrial age, offers sounder vocational prep-
aration than the regular vocational school.

“Today, I suspect, it is the vocational school, and
not the liberal arts college that properly belongs on
the defensive,” he asserted in his inaugural address.
“The economic organization of our country is being
transformed at such a dizzy rate that the man who
is prepared for only one task probably faces the
prospect of permanent unemployment. Specialists are
needed in all vocations, but only as long as their
vocations last, and vocations have a tendency now
to disappear almost over night.”

If this is true, is it not possible the finest vocational
training any school can offer is a broad understand-
ing of our social and economic order and a thor-
ough knowledge of the laws and a science of learn-
ing?

The trouble in Manchuria is not clearing up any and
the League of Nations has not been able to help matters
any. The proposed armistice was turned down by both
the Chinese and Japanese. Since the occupation of Tsitsihar
by the Japanese the situation has become dangerous, for
the Japanese troops are now:on territory under the influ-
ence of Russia, Ma-Shen-Chan has been unable to handle
the situation and General Chiang Kai-shek, president of
the Nanking Government, has been called to direct
Chinese troops in Manchuria. Chank Hsuehliang, deposed
governor of Manchuria, has placed all his troops at the
disposal of the president of the Nanking Government.

Along with these movements there is a plot brewing
to place the boy-emperor Pu-Yi on the throne of his
ancestors as king of Manchuria.

Out of all these plots, battles, et cetera, there may come
forth a spirit of nationalism which will make China a
powerful nation and enable her to throw off the influ-
ence of other nations in her government. A united China
could make progress just as the Japanese have in the
past few decades.

“The Chinese forces in Manchuria would have done
ever so much better if in place of Ma Shen-chan they
had secured the services of Ma Ferguson of Texas
or Ma Kennedy-McPherson of Los Angeles.”—The
New York Times.

It wasn’t a surprise to many people that the Tunney
baby turned out to be a “perfect physical specimen.”

“Only three weeks ago the only person in London
wearing a loin cloth was Gandhi. He has now been
joined by the British Labor party.”

It is worth while going through college if only to
know what is not there.—Lincoln Steffens.

Any one who thinks science is trying to make human
life easier or more pleasant is utterly mistaken.—Albert
Einstein.

Before the coming of leisure, “life’ was the monopoly
of the very few.—Joseph Lee.

didn’t finish it myself. They say there is honor among
thieves. I think there is something akin to honor among
some gunmen, for when a group of public-spirited gun-
men get together to relieve the public of a columnist,
well I suppose you will agree with me, there is something
commendable about them!

And now in conclusion, a little Mountaineer dia-
logue:

“Let me hold your Palm, Olive,” pleaded her boy
friend, Dutch Cleanser. “You are a little Fairy, and
I’m all lathered up about you.”

“You're off your Ivory, you poor Sapolio,” she an-
swered. “Now if -you could only be my Bon Ami, I
Woodbury all my other plans, but Lux against us.”

“Nay, nay, fair maiden,” bubbled Dutch, with Beads
of perspiration on his brow. “Don’t you realize I’m
Grandpa’s Wonder and my love is hot as Lava? Hop
in my Supersuds and let’s make a clean getaway to
my castle in the hills. I'll make a Big Deal some
day.” :
So he sighed and gave her a Cashmere Bouquet
and a Djer Kiss, and they rode away.
