THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

W. AND L.

"CATS TO PLAY ,
SATURDAY

GOLF TOURNAMENT
‘ NOW
UNDER WAY

“THE SPORTS PARADE

Though the ’Cats were beaten by the State
Wolfpack last Saturday, the experience will
undoubtedly prove a profitable one, to the
team, coaches, fans, and all concerned. Pre-
season depression has to a large extent dis-
appeared, and with it has come a. return of
confidence based upon facts.

Neither the team, coaches, nor fans have any
illusions as to the strength of the squad, for it
is obviously weak in comparison with last. year,
but that last quarter of the game in Greensboro
demonstrated as no words or illustrations could,
the fact that the Wildcats have a drive, which,
when clicking neatly, is bound to bring re-
sults.

What could have been prettier than that
fourth quarter drive by the Wildcats! Tak-
ing the ball on their own eighteen-yard line,
the ’Cats hammered and plunged their way
through the powerful State line, with an
occasional end run, and without being
stopped on any play, advanced the ball by
consecutive first downs to the far corner
of the field and over for a touchdown.

One of the lightest teams in the state brush-
ing aside the monumental Wolfpack defense
with a drive reminiscent of Sherman’s well-
known ride through Georgia! Time and time
again, ‘Mr. Cobb, all-state tackle of no mean
repute, found himself rudely shoved five or ten
yards behind his line, and from his position on
the ground looked up to something red
and black go by with the speed of. that well-
known bird going out of the lower regions.

see

Dilan: this last half, MacQueen, Pearce,
and King showed up exceptionally well, with
MacQueen and Pearce carrying the ball the
majority of the time.

Peabody, sent in as a substitute also in the
last quarter, played like a veteran, receiving
and running back punts for good gains, as well

as skirting the ends for additional yardage
each time. Doubtless we shall see more of
Peabody as the season progresses.

Whether or not the replacement of Gard-
ner at center was responsible for many
gains through the center of the Wolfpack
lihe is subject to discussion, but we cannot
help but believe that this change materially
strengthened the ’Cat line. Of course Gard-
ner is very good as regards to~running in-
» terference in the backfield, but if we use
the State game as a criterion, the assump-
tion is that he could be used most effectively
at center. However, a man of Buddy Gard-
ner’s size and calibre is one to be reckoned
with no matter where he is placed.

At the end of the first half, it might be
observed that King and Mathis were the only
two men remaining from the starting team.
And right here let us note that Doc Mathis

played a brilliant game at guard, especially de-
fensively.

This Saturday the Wildcats journey to
Lexington, Va:,_where they meet the Gen-
erals of Washington and Lee. Hampden-
Sidney was badly beaten last Saturday by
W. and L. by a score of 33-0, and according
to Coaches Laird and Unger, who scouted
the game, W. and L. has a stronger team
than last year.

The
them,

‘Cats
but the
promising substitutes,

have a hard struggle ahead of

with development of
they

percentage of their games.

several

should win a_ fair

Miss Maude Royden, the famous woman
preacher, has had the degree of doctor of divin-
ity conferred on her by Glasgow University.
_She is the daughter of the late Sir Thomas
Royden of the Cunard and Anchor Lines. She
has made a unique center of religious activity
out of a disused chapel in Eccleston Square,
near Victoria Station, London.

! —From London Letter.

Wildcats Leave Friday
For Lexington to Meet
_ Strong W.&L. Generals

’Cats Taught New Tr: Tricks After Los-
ing in Night Game With
N. C, State

NO GAME LAST YEAR

This Makes Second Game for Gen-
erals; Third for Davidson

On Saturday afternoon, October 3rd, David-
son's Wildcats will meet the Washington and
Lee Generals in Lexington, This will be the
first time these two teams have met on the
gridiron for several seasons.

Washington and Lee played one game
this season, this being with Hampden-Sidney
last Saturday. In this game W. and L.
ered the opponents with a series of plunges,
running plays, and passes to win by the score
of 32-0. The Generals were. inaugurating
Coach DeHart's new football system and made

has

smoth-

it look good for early season play against
weak opposition, piling up eighteen first downs
to their opponents’ two. Three touchdowns

came on passes and two on plunges.
Last year the Generals tied a 0-0 score with

V. P. IL, who défeated Davidson by just a

SEEN FROM THE SIDELINES
By BILL MATTHEWS

Most of the sports pages of the sti ay carried
their predictions and opinions of Big F Ive teams
last week. This page has withheld it until now,
the the

given,” apt to be

teams play, opinions
and not be

other

and after seeing

can better be so

changed. Here's ours on the four,

leaving Davidson to your

teams,
own opinion.

The Davidson-N. C. State fracas proved
to be fairly satisfying to adherents to both
sides. Davidson had heard so many dire
things about their Wildcats that they were
overjoyed at the stirring last-half showing.
N. C. State undoubtedly showed plenty of
power in their running attack, presented a
powerful line, and two of the préttiest: step-
ping backs seen in quite some moonéi | We
mean Messrs. McQuage and Wilson.

McQuage
State
his kicking was highly
thie
vietion

the whole show for
He was a demon in running back punts,
had
his drives con
Wil
and
Cumiskey cam pile-drive lines like nobody's busi
But that’s State, We

believe they will go far this year.

was nearly

consistent, and he
and
in the

power Weight to give

form of substantial gains

son also boasted a pair of snaky hips,

ness, enough room for

Anyone who has been believing these tales

about Carolina lacking things this vear had ta

| just as hig as the starters. They ripped up the
Wake

jorwards, who last year were just about
as good as any in these parts and is almost
exactly the same this year as it was last

Thanksgiving, save for one or two places.

Slusser will be the big noise, we think, in
the Tar Heel attack. He slid off and around
ends a number of times for pretty gains
and eased over for a brace of scores. Branch
is still the same flashy runner, but he is not
now, and never has been, any help as a
blocker or interference man. He took about
three men out of plays during the whole
game. Carolina will be there in December
right near the top.

Wake Forest, as we said above, has a pretty
line, and one that will cause anybody worlds
of trouble. But this vear they don't have the
quartet of backs who can sell out through holes
that are opened for them. They gained less
than S0° vards. against Carolina, and though

this was not entirely their. fault, they were the
hoys who weren't getting the yards, no matter
who was to blame. With this backfilell will
rest the Deacons’ fate this year. We believe that
Davidson has as good a chance this year as
they will have in quite some days to break
that jinx. Tf the Wildeats will forget about its
existence, they stand a good chanee to do it.

; F 20-19. Washi revise their ideas last Sunday morning. Their
Hee Cane ts Wate ae ae superiority to Wake Forest: seemed even more Duke disappointed a multitude of hopeful
eats Nee Usteaten uy, UUbe While He marked than the score indicated. A+ hopeful ]alumni, but then South Carolina is supposed
Wildcats ere downed by the Blue Devils with Riorts editor on the Dally Inr deel inst woellliter Have ac awelloteain) anda therm derene ee
a score of 12-0, eee ae p said that Carolina could heat Wake Vorest hy | the Blue Devils doesn’t mean that the Mil-
In the game with eee last MA the Gen- OO points, if they wanted to. That was just}lionaires don’t have the football this year.
erals were defeated, 21-7, ae ste vty de DON McQUEEN, WILDCAT about how things conld have been, if they hadJ Remember, South Carolina frocked ‘em
feated by ; Carolina“ Cw as i Mes Vildeats FULL BACK kept up through the eiune as they started off.| worse than that last year, and Duke didn’t
downed, 7-6) by a score of 40-0. — lose another game. With the material on
Wildéet Guapplens 20 Entrants Begin st ey" ret ante gene
al TVG oO ce Vy SUDS cs MW are Oo o, ney o o go places.
D : Play ix in Golf Meet|'"'' :
Will Meet Six Foes : SP ecko eevee lCEN PE
The Davidson Colles fall golf tournament Shc N passing ability, in particular, are said to be
Bi uilennle weeds fat ihecenint ort ranc Ow A
Davidson s wrestling schedule for the coming opened last) Monday, September 28, with be y T H ] T Boel HECHEHE Hue tine HAR atmalelt! are tiie weOnen
Season is not complete to date, but the Wild-]tyeen 16 and 20 entries. The preliminaries are On ar ee €AM] oF the Charlotte Observer sports. editor.
cat grapplers have at least six matches, it was]to pe 18 holes and the finals are to be 36. The x Carolina started their season off very well
announced by “Doc” Unger, wrestling coach | main purpose of this tournament is to get af behnny Branch, who was at one time con-])y defeating Wake Forest 37-0 at Chapel Hill,
Matches are being scheduled with the same | pie up on the most promising golfers in school, |sdered ineligible to play on the Tar Weel foot-] Saturday, September 26. The Tar Heels have
opponents the grapplers met last year, with the] [y  j, expected that a fall golf team is to be [Dall team, rejoined ‘the first team September|a yery hard schedule this year, and Johnny
exception of N, C3 State, who have dropped selected and there are prospects of several 23 at the University of North Carolina Branch is very weleome to their ranks.
wrestling from their winter sports program. Pinatches with neivhboring clubs Johnny failed on at coursé: in economics last i
N.C, State opened the Davidson schedule here There are only three members of last year’s |Ye#" at Chapel TRI and it was thought that Freshmen Enter Tennis
ee ee ee tye NC AS ole team facle i) felioulh Of thicie hice), Tone Ee Cee ee Tournament 36 Strong
score, Caldwell is the only one that has been able toPevers took a correspondence course in eco ear oe
Other teams met hy the Wildcats last winter play any,’as Jack Wagner and John D. Me- [OMS this summer, and: stood an examination Thirty six a reslinen Have entered the tennis
were Washington and Lee, V. M. 1, Duke eanivelence PhroGHhy cotthe Hose dovo(MbEsONL, URE Hey sbponeped bai (fC it September 21, Dean’ Carrol reported Mon-} tournament and will play off their matches by
University, Carolina, and V. P. f. Three of the fthat hoth MeConnel#? and Waener will be out | “ty night that Johnny passed his examination, Saturday. The six best men will be chosen to
six matches were held at Davidson and three] 4, the spring team and would he able to play football as far astimake up the Freshman team. The entrants
on foreign mats. This will he the case again] (yite a few prospects have been noted among his studies were concerned. ‘ and the pairings follow: S. Brown, B, Bogart;
this winter with the three teams met away the participants in this golf tourney. Mae Man- Johnny has been a most outstanding quarter-| Parker, Mellwaine; [. Garrett, B. Little; R.
from home last season coming here for matches}. and Tom Bowles have. both shown up [back at Carolina for the past two years, and] Orr; Hellenger; S. Eaton, FE. Norvell; J.
Coach Unger also announced that wrestling | cry well in the competition. It is thought that [his absence from the gridiron was very per-| James, M. Rogers; G. Gulett, R. Sherrill; W.
workouts will begin immediately after the close} yj), Thompson, also a very promising golfer, | ceptibly noticed the first week of practice, while} Sprunt, TV. Sutton; B. Cait, H. *Daniel; R.
f the football season. The first mateh will} iy chow up well. Thompson, who is a Junior, |e was preparing for his examination, Coach] Lessem, J. Vaylor; B. Smith, A. Bayer; H,
orobably be held the first week in February. | vas not able to play last year. There are also} Chuck Collins was very pleased when he was] Powell, A. MeFadyen; P. Lucas; H. Yelverton,
Another schedule is being prepared with sev-{. oy prospects in the Freshman class. informed that Johnny was eligible to pliy. Sep-] J. Walker
eral high school and college freshmen wrestling The course is said to be in better condition | tember 23 Johnny reported to the first team and Because there were such a large number
teams for the Davidson Freshmen. Unger will} tjay fast year, and it is hoped that the golf} replaced Johnny Peacock, who had been sub-[of men entering the tournament this year, it
also have charge of the Wildkitten grapplers. [team will hold up its title as State champions. | stituting for him while he was out. will be necessary for the following men to play
SS Du OS EISO pie ——.} The entire student body, as well as) the} off the preliminaries before they will be eligible
’ : u | yor Oo ) ty ) rs lipibility at 4 ‘ eit 4 ¥ uf 24 ; Te A Be
Upperclassmen 8 Tennis MEER AINUEUHIIG Goet ONiEe few: Hime coach S rej iced ver Johnny s eligibility, He}to enter the tournament Mhey are nC West,
yf tR It ° Tauede tin is hiel iincteee nlavenies considered one of the few outstanding men} Rogers; KR. Porter, H. Morris; D. Elvery, S.
njoye » game, which wi be ayed]. peas snr Ne i
: ournamen hes en ae its Rit ain gta orir eed lig the enroling backfield, and his kicking and] Adams; Bo Simpson, Hl. Ray
- so lar Ws season,
Haldverstadt as Winner
aoe r 4
Play in the upperclassmen’s tennis tourna- STATISTICS ON STATE- °
ment progressed to the final round last week. DAVIDSON GAME We Cater to Davidson
Jim Halverstadt, of Atlanta, Ga., defeated eee
Gene DuBose, of Camden, S. C., in, four sets, S D SCARLET TANAGER Men
6-2, 6-8, 6-1, 6-2. It was an interesting tussle Ya fee : 182 97 ‘
and the battle held the attention of the crowd Fee nl eee
throughout Passes attempted --_------- 4 7 TOBACCOS - - SODAS
Both contestants displayed hard-driving Pastes completed Sake aa : ; SUNDRIES N O R 4 O N » S
games and each man kept on his toes for fear Passes intercepted --..--
his opponent would drive him to the wall. The Yds. gained from perect - 35 i P
players were well pitted and the game’ was the Totals yds. gained __.- 217-106 BARBER SHO
best exhibition of form seen on Davidson tennis First downs ---------------- 7 7
courts this fall. The services were truly potent Average length of punts --- 34 = 31
crashes and the forehand drives -of each piayer
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, NeWwspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
z aller e : Bie Bierieul Cards) and THER HBH a
$25 00 e i in) $29 50 P e Nothing too large or simall for our plant-—-Let us serve you,
| ay ) P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
e ailored Suits e PInNtIng 6.6 Square Feet Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
‘ PHONE 206
Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town
Headquarters. We carry everything from head to foot
that a College Man will need.
S
SOME TRISEE U STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N.C.
> a L + ad

