&

4
DELTA PI KAPPA | 4 GLEE CLUB TO
ANNOUNCES RENDER
EDITORIAL : PROGRAM
CONTEST : EVENING.
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 26, 1931

No. 20

World Missions

Held in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Reports of Different Commissions
Given at Congress and Discussed
in Conference Groups

PAGEANT PRESENTED

Dr. W. L. Lingle on Committee on
“The Missionary Message”

From February 16 to 19 there was held
in Chattanooga, Tenn., perhaps the most
important conference ever held in the South-
ern Presbyterian Church. It was attended
by delegates from almost every part of the
land in’ which the Southern Presbyterian
Church is, and jncluded approximately two
or three thousands delegates, while at some
meetings there may have been even more

This conference was the Congress on World
Missions.

The congress had two distinct phases: in-
spirational and educational, in connection
with which commission reports were made
on six topics vital to foreign. missions, Then,
after each report had been made, group con-
ferences were held to discuss the contents
of the report and to make any criticisins
thought advisable. .There were thirty of
these individual groups with from forty to
sixty in each group. Thus every delegate of
the congress was afforded an opportunity
to make any suggestion that he thought ad-
visable.

The program, very briefly, was as follows:
Each day three meetings were held. One in
the morning, one in the afternoon, and one
at night. At each of the daytime mectings
a report was made, the congress adjourned
to the discussion groups for one hour and
fifteen minutes, and then reassembled to hear
an inspirational address. The night service
consisted of an inspirational address only.
All of the meetings were opened hy a song
service led by Mr. Homer Hammuontree.
In addition to these meetings there was held
an open forum on Wednesday afternoon and
night’ in which anyone was free to ask any
question directly of the executive commit-
tee. a

On the final night the report of the find-
ings committee, which had been appointed
to review the minutes of the individual dis-
cussion groups and to make a summary of
them to the conference as a whole, was made.
The substance of their report is as follows:

Commission number one, on “The Mis-
sionary Message and Obligaiton—Christian-
ity and the Non-Christian Religions,” with
Dr. W. L. Lingle as chairman, was en-
dorsed, with the following things empha-
sized: It is our obligation as much now as
it ever was to carry on missionary efforts.

(Continued on page 5)

Glee Club Program
Set for March 3rd

As is its custom, the Davidson College
Glee Club will present their annual program
in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday night,
March 3, at 8 o'clock. This time of year
- finds the club-in the best condition because
of the weekly rehearsals which. began at
the opéning of school.

The program this season is one which
caters to both the classical and popular type
of music. The chorus, which is the best that
Davidson has had in recent years, will fig-
ure in the program. George Pardington,
winner of the North Carolina Atwater-Kent
Audition held last October, is to render sev-
eral solos, and the quartet composed of J. O.
Koonce, Bill Rule, Gene DuBose, and Jack
Ramseur, will contribute popular songs to
the program. Davidson’s orchestra, the Sun-
nyland Serenaders, is expected to provide
the lighter part of the entertainment. A
notable addition to the program this year
is the Doodler Brothers, Davidson radio
idols, in person. These two will give their
interpretation of the latest song hits. Added
novelties will find their part in the pro-
gram.

The admission to be charged has been set
at twenty-five cents for students and thirty-
five cents for townspeople.

Honor Roll

SENIOR CLASS
Alderman, P. R.
Caldwell, D. J.
Caldwell, J. R., Jr.
Emurian, E. K.
Jackson, K. M.
Matthews, J. C.
Munroe, H. S.
McCutchan, J. W.
Norfleet, M. W., Jr.
Rollins, F. H.
Shepard, A. H.

JUNIOR CLASS
Carr, H. L.
Dwelle, E. C.
Enloe, R. P.
Harrison, C. W.
Hand, L. N. =
McLean, T. W.
McQueen, D. M.
Wiley, S. S.

SOPHOMORE CLASS

Conference |

I.R.C. Makes Plans
For Talks on China

The International Relations Club met Fri-
day night, February 20. President J. C. Mat-
thews presided. Plans were made for future |
programs; the subjects of two are China and |
the United States of Europe. After the |
business meeting, a very interesting review |
was given by Henry Nichol on “Humanity
Uprooted,” a recent book by Maurice Hindus, |
which deals with the Soviet conditions of |
present day Russia. The following is the |
introduction to the talk: |

This book by Maurice Hindus describing |
the new Russia has an extremely appropriate |
title. For good or for evil, Russia has | B P. F
plucked up the old world by its very roots, | Drtha a EE

; ; McConnell, D. M.
and the party in power is glad to see these | 3
' Pan McNair, W. E.
roots wilt and turn to dust. Not an insti-

i cant ‘ ; Moffett, Susan

tution, property, religion, morality, family, | r
Mulliss, W. F.
love, or any class of people has escaped the |
overwhelming blasts of the revolution which | : FRESHMAN CLASS
started its work of transformation in Rus- Dill, J. E.
sia in 1917. Russia is making an attempt McGeachy, J. A., Jr.
to build a civilization based on an entirely | Morrow, R. C., Jr.
new pattern. She has no models of any kind | Thompson, W. M.
by which to be guided. It is a thing which | Thompson, W. T., Jr.

is without precedent in the history of the |
|
human race.
i

Faculty Entertains
Seniors with Party

The author is well qualified to write sucli |
a’ book, having lived in Russia during boy-
hood, and then having moved to the United
States, visiting his native land at frequent | my
intervals. To write such a book merely as Annual Affair is Colorful Gathering
an observer from an unprejudiced point of | With Many Guests

view is an almost impossible task, yet this | 3 :
is exactly what Mr. Hindus has done. He | On Saturday evening, February 21, the

| avi 2 > a
basa viewed tHe vaGena. WHh cheseya-of an | faculty of Davidson College elaborately en-

; es ; ver tertained at iz ;
artist which is as important as it is humanly | a colonial party for members

possibte-to-be: The book presents a compre- of the 1931 graduating class and about fifty

hensive picture of the revolutionary effort | of their lady guests, who were here for the
annual week-end Senior Class House Party.

to uproot ancient institutions and to refashion | Thi 1 ;
; ; is a al er efi
the ways of men, Let us examine more, close- | : annua entertainment by the faculty
| Was initiated three years ago, and the party

ly some of these revolutionary changes as | & :
they are explained in the chapters of this | 01 “Saturday - night superseded any former

peste | attempts of the faculty in their hospitality

Religion has been overthrown. A wave |’ ae lass a isi load
ofathelei ieveweanihe tte landian ai result. In keeping with this particular date and
OF te fevelition of 1017) ‘MUlilions Of peaple its historic significance, the. faculty mem-
Wat were formerly ther haeliones On the | bers and their wives donned Martha and
(Continted on cage 5) George Washington costumes> And many of
| the girl visitors came in costumes of various
| sorts, and together they made a colorful af-

Dr. Henderson Gives {7 ee i ale and ee He
Scientific Lecture selection o ne Class, predominated in the

| auditorium, special rooms where stunts were
| given, and in the banquet hall of Chambers
Building.

| As the guests arrived at the main en-
| trance, they were greeted by a reception
: ‘ ; yer committee that consisted of Dr. W. L. Lingle,
Last Friday night in the auditorium Cit dgdent of the college, Dr. and Mrs. Mac-

: , rv
ae ee erie a Archibald | Connell, Professor and Mrs. Schenck, and
Sues? SOME cue Dt OLEBS OF: 0) mathematics | |, of the class officers and their guests,

f the University of N i | : i : ;
+ CS Se heat orth Carolina and! 1p. S. LaFar of Gastonia, president, and
famous as being one of the very few men, Miss F Marshall. of Rock Hill. §. C
in the world to understand the Einstein the- | °° "A7CCS Marshall, of ixoc palemin s?

Shy ob ealaluity. Cepoke on i Gantainpares land A. B. McClure, of Rabun Gap, Ga., vice-
Y Eda ado president, and Miss Daisy Caldwell, of Da-

Scientists and Their Work.” This was the | *.
fourth of a series of programs arranged for | teed ;
| Each newcomer was presented with a green

the Central High students. This program Se : ,
e 3 A bik: | or white ticket, half of which permitted them
was sponsored by the Charlotte Engineers ,
to enter the faculty and trustees’ room on
Club of Charlotte. Before the lecture, Dr. ea 3
~ | the second: floor of Chambers, where Prof.
Henderson was the guest of honor at a din- Nieves pat
‘ W. L. Porter gave an art exhibit. The other
ner given at the Southern Manufacturers A
GlubreAbiony. the: Silla GRAtaC ppanenteauare half went to the Quadwranglers’ room on
: . 8 P the third floor, where Mrs. J. P. Williams

officers, directors, and committee chairmen ;
‘ y conducted a fish pond and favors were dis-

of the Charlotte Engineers Club and sey- Bana AE & specified itiine the bell Was. nung

eral personal friends of Dr. Henderson. ae
Dr. Henderson spoke of the scientists who and the groups exchanged rooms, and each
: had an opportunity to witness the entertain-

are working today to work out the scientific
. ment offered there.

problems of the universe and declared that Tatan the: Gesis: weal to the. auditorium
science stood above every other human activ- Suge Bases is
ity. He declared that the miracles. of today OF Chambers Building, where *PIRY,, Powe:
were much harder and more difficult to| Syncopation, . an operatic farce, was pre-

ein than: those Of the Bible sented. Among the principal actors were
eee. : Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett, heroine; Prof.

aes finds no: aitterence, that is Mush relative E. J. Cullum, the hero; Dr. George B. Watt,
difference, between pure and applied science ;
(Continued on page 6)

besides the fact that pure science is a des-
ignation for a scientific truth when- no prac-
tical application for it has yet been found.
He ranks the two classes as equal in im-
portance. There has been work in the sci-
entific laboratories all over the country. This
work must continue, and if any attempt is’
(Continued on page 5) f

One of Few Men to Understand
Einstein Theory

Delta Pi Kappa Prize

Anyone interested in a contest being held
by the Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic
fraternity may find all necessary informa-
tion:on. the editorial page.

Mid-Winter Assemblage of
Trustees Held Last Week

Dr. Thompson Talk

at Vesper Service

Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Union Theolog-
ical Seminary in Richmond, spoke to a large
and attentive audience at the “Y” vespers
last Sunday evening. Dr. Thompson was a
graduate of the class of 1905 and was out-
standing in both his class and extra-curric-
ular activities. Two years ago Davidson had
the privilege of hearing Dr. Thompson talk
at the “Y” services and it was with a great
deal of pleasure that his friends welcomed
him back to his alma mater again for a short
stay. :

Charles A. Sisson read the Scripture taken
from the Book of Matthew, and introduced
the speaker. Albert B. McClure led the song
service, and Paul F. Brown and Jake S.
MacKorell offered short prayers. The Da-
vidson College violin quartet played a num-
ber in keeping with the spirit of the serv-
ice.

Dr. Thompson began his talk with an
illustration concerning baseball and won the
attention of his audience. In a deft manner
and by his magnetic personality he kept up
the interest of his hearers by apt examples,
explanatory sketches, and the relating of
personal experiences. He declared that the
two motives in life are social or competitive.
He said that life was a sort of arena where
we fight to get all we can from others, or
a field of honor where we give everything
we can to others. He asserted that the life
of Christ should not only affect preachers
and missionaries, but business men, and peo-
ple in all walks of life.

The speaker told of a conductor on the
IWinois Railroad who kindly took into his
family circle a young country girl who was
going to a large city for the first time. He
affirmed that this man was serving his Mas-
ter in his own way and making the most
of his opportunities when he took in this
girl until she made permanent plans for
lodging. He referred to an Atlanta layman
who made it his motto in business to always
treat his customers fairly and do right by
his employees. Because of his policy he was

successful in business and respected by his

fellow citizens.

Dr. Thompson stressed the importance of
offering one’s life to the service of the Lord.
He said that the demands on foreign mis-
sionaries were more stringent today than
ever before. He said that men were needed
on the foreign field who were men of char-

(Continued on page 5)

Pistol and Holster
Club Formed Here

Brohard, Caulder, and Burton Are
Chapter Members

A new organization has been formed on
the campus named the “Pistol and Holster
Club.” M. L. Brohard, Duncan Caulder, and
Sergeant Barton seem to be the ones who
are behind the club. They report that an
interest is being taken in pistol shooting,
and many are trying out for the team. >

The purpose of this organization is to
organize a pistol team in addition to the
rifle team of the college, and stimulate among
the students an interest in pistol shooting.
Both, .45 and .22 caliber pistols are being
used in the practice shooting.

The Pistol and Holster has already chal-
lenged the Scabbard and Blade to an en-
gagement, and a very interesting match is
assured. In addition, many other matches
are expected to be scheduled, and the man-
ager, M. L. Brohard, is looking forward to
arranging some national matches.

As, yet officers have not been elected, but
M. L. Brohard is managing the team. All
who have had any experience in pistol shoot-
ing, and are interested in this, are requested
to see M. L. Brohard. Many have been do-
ing some shooting already as candidates for
the team. Captain Morrison has invited the
club to shoot on his range in Mooresville.

Reports of College Officials Evince
Steady Progress and Stable
Financial Condition

CHAIRMAN IS ABSENT

Trustees Authorize the Observance
of Annual “Founders’ Day” on
April the 7th

The mid-winter meeting of the Board of
Trustees was held Wednesday, February 18,
with both morning and evening sessions,
which were held in the faculty room in
Chambers. There wete twenty-eight mem-
bers of the Board present, including the fol-
lowing new members: Rey. R. S. Arrowood,
R. J. Knight, and W. S. Royster. Dr. C. R.
Nisbet of Charlotte acted as chairman.

The Trustees passed a resolution calling
attention to a previous motion, unanimously
passed by the Board in 1925, sanctioning the
granting of diplomas to ladies” completing
the required work at Davidson. This motion,
according to the resolution, had not been
put into effect.

The Board also decided to discontinue the
chair of fine arts.

In the absence of the chairman and other
members of the committee studying the ques-
tion of R. O. T. C. at Davidson, the Board
decided to defer action on this matter until
the next mecting.

The trustees also authorized the observ-
ance of a “Founders’ Day” for Davidson on .
April 7, when distinguished speakers will
be brought to Davidson. According to ree-
ords, the corner stone.of Davidson was laid
on April 7, 1836. The Board also discussed
Davidson’s centennial celebration with the
action that a committee will be appointed
to study the financial needs of the college
and make recommendation for a building pro-
gram to be completed{by 1936.

Dr. Lingle’s report to the Trustees showed
that the enrollment was barely short of the
high water mark reach d in 1926-27. He dis-
cussed the work done \toward taking care
of the library needs and dwelt upon minor
matters relative to varioys departments and
general conditions on the campus.

The report of Mr. Jadkson showed that

(Continued on

yage 5)
f

Seibert Entertains
with Organ Recital

Last Wednesday's’ cpncert by Henry F.
Seibert, official organist of the Town Hall
and the Church of the\Holy Trinity, New
York, was well attended’ by the Davidson
students and townsfolk. Mr. Seibert was as-
sisted on the program by Mrs. Grace K.
Johnston, dramatic soprano, of Charlotte
(Mrs. Charles L. Mosley, Jr., at the piano),
who rendered two selections and one encore

in Italian. \

Mr. Seibert’s program, which was master-
fully executed, included nuthbers by: Schu-
bert, Mendelssohn, Handel, and Wagner,
but Bach's name did not appear. The most
difficult rendition was Mendelsohn’s Sonata
No. 1, which included considerable and bril-
liant pedal work. The Pygmies by Stoughtoa,
characteristic and impressive, was repeated
by demand. In his rendition of Schubert's
Ave Maria, Mr. Seibert showed forth the
qualities of expression and sympathetic play-
ing which are demanded of an organist of
his rank. Wagner's Song of the Evening Star
also was played beautifully and with much
expression. A Pedal Study of Yon, the con-
cluding number, was an example of advanced
and difficult footwork on the organ.

Mr. Seibert’s recital was an unusual op-
portunity for Davidson’s music devotees.
Greater skill or more sympathetic expres-
sion has seldom been heard on Davidson's
Skinner. Mr. Seibert, asked of his opinion
of the organ, replied that it was a delight
to play on such a complete organ iff a rural
section. Most instruments out of town, he
asserted, are but neglectfully repaired by
the maker. :
