THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

Columbia Editor Causes

e e e
, Literary Societies
Stir in Serious Charges

Phi and Eu Literary Societies had their reg-
ular weekly meetings last Tuesday evening, De-
cember 8,

The topic at the Phi Society
Great Philosophies of Life.”

Reed Harris Asserts Through His
Paper That Columbia Gridders Are
Paid by Alumni

“Five
The subject was

was

been stirred up just the same, in the East at) David, the Epecurean by Woolye Croker, and
least, by the students themselves. In a number | the Christian by Courtney Ross. The program
of eastern colleges—and even in some high} for next Tuesday, December 15, will be “The
schools—the squabble has been between the! [etters of General Robert EF. by Will
football squads and their ardent supporters, and | Rachal, and “Readings from Autograph Col-
the student newspapers, backed by their ad- | lections,” by William Carter.

mirers. : The Eu program was composed of six short
The first notable shell was fired by Reed Har- |talks which were as follows: Gunby Rule on

I ce,”

ris, former 215-pound football player, now ed-| Casey at the Bat, Lewis Gregg on Eugene

itor of the Columbia University Spectator, who | O'Neill and “Mourning Becomes Electra,” B.

wrote a series of editorials to the effect that
the Columbia gridders were more or less un-

: |treated as follows: The Stoic Philosophy by |
There has been no Carnegie report this yeat! Horace Ryburn, the Platonic Philosophy by |
to stir up the college football question, but it’s} Stuart Noblin, the Aristotelian by Marion -Mc-

O. Simpson on Gandhi Land, Geddy Monroe

lon Thomas Edison. Talks were also made by
| Joe Tyack and Alvin Byer. It is the object
lof the society to maintain interest and to give
{the members of the society a more frequent
opportunity to speak by having many short
| talks.

Mount Holyoke College
Students Aid in Relief

South Hadley, Mass.—(1IP)—Several hun-
dred dollars were secured for the relief of un-
derfed children last week when the women stu-
dents at Mount Holyoke College, all 1,050 of
| them, ate beans and lamb stew in place of the
| tegular menu.
| The students had their choice of beans and
{brown bread, or lamb stew with biscuits. The
|meal took the place of the regular Sunday
|chicken dinner and fixin’s.

Davidson Glee Club
To Render Concert

The Davidson College Glee, Club will give
a concert in Pinehurst on the night of Decem-
ber 17. The Glee Club has rendered a few
numbers in chapel and they also expect to give
a concert here at Davidson some time in the
near future. The club this year is under the
William Rule, III, and George
Pardington is business manager.

direction of

The tentative program for the Pinehurst con-
cert is as follows:

Glee Club will present three groups of songs.

Sunnyland Serenaders will play two groups,
of popular numbers.

The quartet will render a selection.
A skit.

A solo by George Pardington. p

Horace Irving will play a violin solo.

Prof. Beaty Speaks
To Ministerial Band

Prof. E. A. Beaty, of the Latin Department,
addressed the Ministerial Band at an informal
meeting Sunday afternoon. Professor Beaty
spoke on the subject of “The Kingdom of
Heaven.” He took up four phases of the King-
dom. First, he.discussed the place of the King-
dom of Heaven, bringing out the fact that the
Kingdom is within one’s self and is a condition
of spiritual citizenship. Next he disclosed the
nature of the Kingdom, stating that it is a
spiritual subjective experience. He then further
stated that the Kingdom can be approached
only by spiritual means. His last phase was
“the duty of every minister.” Under this topic
he stated that it is a minister’s duty to preach
of the Kingdom of Heaven to a social group
and not only to the individual.

derwritten by wealthy alumni. Members of the |
squad immediately presented themselves at the |
Spectator office and offered to lick Harris if |
he printed any more such stories. Harris almost
literally thumbed his nose at the players, and | -
went on printing his accusations, drawing more |
and more support from not only students but |
many alumni as well. |

This raised such a furor that Dean Christian |
Gauss of Princeton let it be known that so far |
as he could ascertain all football players in the |
country were supported directly or indirectly
by alumni or other interests. He intimated that, |
as Chief Justice Hughes once said, “You can't
have an honest horse race until you have an

honest human race.”
e e
Editorial Contest
————_
The Intercollegiate “Disarmament Council,
with headquarters here, has announced a nation-
wide contest for college students on the writing

of the best editorials on “How

} q
Students Can | h
Help Achieve World Disarmament.” | AM aul ¢ , | , @

First, second and third awards will be $40, |
$25 and $10.

The following rules were announced :

Editorial must be by an enrolled undergradu-
ate.

Editorial must have been printed in a college
paper or magazine.

Editorial must be not more than
Editorial must be submitted by the author and
must reach the editorial contest editor, 347
Madison Avenue, New York, on or before De-
cember 21. Winning editorials are to be pub-
lished in the February issue of Intercollegian.

the treatment of all

500 words.

Coaches Confess

Turning out good football teams is a serious
business in this day and age, but the mentors
have time for their chuckles just the same,
according to an article, “The Coaches Confess,”
published in the January College Humor.

Almost a new slant is given on the old game
when leading coaches like Stevens of Yale,
Zuppke of Illinois, Warner of Stanford,- Kerr
of Colgate, Bible of Nebraska, Cavanaugh of
Fordham, Ingwerson of Iowa, and Madigan of
St. Mary’s tell their funniest experiences.

As an example, Coach Zuppke tells this one:

“Just before the game I said, ‘Nobody comes
out until he is dead.’

“This ultimatum apparently had good effect
and it wasn’t necessary to make a substitution
until late in the last quarter when one of the
regular linemen was disabled. Our trainer went
out and worked on him but it was clear he
would have to leave the game.

“T hurried out a big, inexperienced substitute.
He went over to the place where the disabled
lineman was still stretched out, bent over him
and then came running off the field back to the
bench.

“Why didn’t you stay out there?’ I yelled at

Made

Wou probably know that heat is used in

cigarette tobaccos.

But you know too that excessive heat
can destroy freshness and fragrance.

That’s why there could be no truly fresh
cigarette except for scientifically developed
methods of applying heat.

Reynolds is proud of having discovered
and perfected methods for getting the

a |
“You needn't tell me

—I know Camel is

the fresh cigarette!

a

never parched, never toasted

benefits of heat treatments and still avoid-
ing ever parching or toasting.

With every assurance we tell you, Camels
are truly fresh. They’re made fresh—not
parched or toasted —and then they’re kept
fresh in the Camel Humidor Pack.

If you wish to know why the swing to
Camels is nationwide and steadily growing
—switch to them for just one day —then

leave them, if you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY

Winston-Salem, N. C.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's
Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs

CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and
Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night
except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System

PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,”
and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan,
every night except Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network

See radio page of local newspaper for time

the sub.
“Why, Zup, you said nobody left the game
but a dead man and he’s still breathing!’ ”

Small Deputation Visits
Banner Elk for Week-end

We have it on reliable authority that the
excellence of Sam Wiley’s first sermon deliy-
ered at Banner Elk a month ago accounted for
his being called back the past week-end to fill
the Lees-McRae College pulpit. Accordingly,
he and Horace Ervin set out on Saturday aft-
ernoon (the latter to render a violin solo) for
the distant junior college, and unless you call
being stuck on a lonely mountainside for two
hours with a burned-out coil a mishap, they
arrived without casualty.

Wiley spoke Sunday morning and evening.
His morning sermon was built around Jcb’s
reference to God’s thunderous power, while in
the evening he talked on Obligations, it being
a prelude to a short pageant which the under-
graduates had worked up on “Immigration.”
The dependence of. immigrants and foreigners
on the Christian evangelical work of America
was the theme.

Ervin played at both these meetings.

Don't remove the moisture-proof wrapping from
your package of Camels after you open it. The
Camel Humidor Pack is protection against sweat,
dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in
the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel
. Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps
them right until the last one has been smoked

Made FRESH — Kept FRESH

© 1931, B. J. Reynolds Tob

