ye .

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MAY 6, 1931

| The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents

Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

er copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D5 GRIBK eM biNcnscecuciuetatadcsscsasssnes Editor-in-Chief
Fic Ass CANNON: sai siescsewtsatesaucencusss Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Bs O} -GUBRRAN TL ciciasstceacccecccasscasuve anaging Editor
Di Die MERRY D Wsscucsdecsseulecccasusccaseu’ Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE i Editor
C. F. MYERS - Editor
B. Editor
D. Editor
Ww. Editor
H. Editor
E, Associate Editor
Wii Bi a ab ietkse benkcsscdanssnncdccdckassncceeORlate: alter
W eH MATIMEW Sxcssencbcccccsuscesicece Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P.. Miz GON WAY. ccc ccccseascese. Assistant Business Manager
ff: BAKER... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS Assistant Business Manager
A. G. M Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN Beccosewesoe-sa---eq=s! licitor
Ri SW iGRAURS oil oo scale acceso cscs So ec a cece COSI COE,
A. M. MANSON... -Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE -- -Solicitor
W, SRS MORRO WW oc con cance ees cc ca ccdecasccscoccosns Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB :
Ay Hy OWHITBHWADsccdsvcnstasdcscsspaccsccscsueecs President
Ji {BEAK ee ceeea ls soos causa y elu secusdesccn Vide President
W. F. MULLISS_.--..-----.---.-_-.---.--Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
: B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBOL
Ps G. E, BAILEY R, E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD KE. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASAI W. M. THOMPSON

W. T. THOMPSON

SALI
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
- J. A. HUNTER

APRIL 30, 1931

Inconsistencies of opinion,

—Webster.

arising fror
changes of circumstances are often justifiable.

MAKE-UP

The following men did make-up work on
pages indicated:

IMIVOFE foc nsscscncccclss Front Page
MoBryde: =.= 2ss20c.-22225 Page Five
SUS8ioioee ios c 23s. se Sport Page
McCallie: ceo hecsicsseae Page Six
Guerrant ..-------.----- Assignments
PARAGRAPHICS

Anyone who had
track meet in Green

both events.

It won't be long before the Seniors will begin
studying for their last examinations. Let’s give
them an oppotrunity to make good on them by

keeping as quiet as possible during the period.

The campus is at its most beautiful stage now.
We hardly realize the picturesque beauty of our
surroundings until we compare it with that of

other places.

Davidson men will be interested to know that
Lees-McRae College, in Banner Elk, N. C., has
been given full Junior College rating by the State |

Department of Education.

Some generous soul was kind enough to send us
an article on the use of words. Wish that he would
make himself known so that we may personally
thank him, as we realize our dire need for such

instruction.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., announces that
prize winners in its fifty-thousand-dollars contest
will be announced next week. Several men are
expecting to receive registered mail in the nxt few

days.

In case someone doesn’t know the meaning of
the heading of the new column, we will give you
the definition the columnist gave us. According to

him it is translated “News Paragraphs.”

MOTHER’S DAY

Countless volumes have been written on
mothers, their love, and things associated
with mothers, but it is agreed that even this
is not enough to say in love and reverence
of the one to whom everyone owes such a
debt. Mere words cannot express the feeling
of a son for his mother. There ate many
times during each year that we realize the
things that our mothers have done for. us,
and wish that there was some appropriate

way of showing our gratitude.

One day only in each year is set aside as
one especially dedicated to mothers, This
seems a small recognition of the enormous
obligation that we’ owe them. That fact
alone makes it absolutely necessary that we
give, as much as is possible, that day to
them. It is an opportunity for every man to
show, in some way, his devotion to his
mother, his thankfulness for all that she has
done for him, all that she has meant to him.

At college, especially when distance pre-
{ reat many men from being at home
on that day, the problem is even more acute..
Letters, telegrams, gifts are familiar meth-

vents a

pleasure of seeing the
oro particularly enjoyed the
hurdle events, which were practically all-Davidson,
with George, McCallie, and Little all placing in

ANOTHER EXPERIMENT |

Haverford College has now made its ad-
dition to the-plethora of reforms which re-
cent criticism has produced in American
college education. .The current trend, in
fact, would seem to indicate that it 1s a
mean institution which cannot offer some
program of innovation in response to the

demand for greater efficiency irbur mod- |
ern educational system. Experiments of a |

more or less radical nature are in procéSs in
every section of the country (with the pos-
sible exception of South Carolina and Vir-
ginia) in an effort to justify the time and
money involved in the pursuit of higher
education. These sundry proposals boast all
grades of theoretical merit, and time alone
can tell which will have permanent influence
on American campuses.

The Haverford plan, involving a view
which. is steadily gaining acceptance, predi-
cates what has been termed a “reasonable

| inclusive aristrocacy” of college students.

Only the fit can be admitted, and their fit-
ness is to be assured through an adequate
selective process and personal interviews.
Unable to accommodate the throngs beating
a path to their gates, our higher institutions
of learning—for the time, at least—must re-

| gard their benefits as a privilege rather than

an “inherent right.” And quality rather than

| quantity, though a completely un-American

principle, is the essence and support of the
new Haverford system,

The really unique feature of the project
is the adoption of the individual as the unit
for instruction instead of the group. Hach
upperclassman is to be placed under the su-
pervision of a qualified professor for guid-
ance with recognition of his particular
needs and abilities. The mental, however, is
not to be emphasized to the exclusion of the
pliysical. Every student will take some part
in three sports, “one of which he can con-
tinue to engage in in mature life.”

With its new methods, Haverford expects
to turn out well-balanced, carefully devel-
oped personalities instead of the somewhat
veneered products ground from our present
educational machines. Aside from the fact
that it apparently presents the problem of
a choice between small student bodies or
unwieldly faculties, the plan is definitely ap-
pealing in its simplicity and promise ‘of ef-
fectiveness. There are a practical theory and
purpose behind it which invite confidence,
and its principle should receive considera-
tion in the search for tomorrow’s process of
college education:—Duke “Chronicle.”

CHANGES

It is with a sense of doubt that we an-
nounce that ‘The Davidsonian, appears on
Wednesday beginning with this issue, It is
at least certain that this edition will be dated
Wednesday. We remember the compliment
which the past editor paid to'the Shakesper-
ean players, who failed to appear for their
performance ; and we hesitate to make any
such definite statements. But, unless unfore-
seen accidents occur, the paper will be in
the postoffice on Wednesday afternoon.

The staff is hopeful that, this change of
custom will meet with the approval of the
student body, as the alteration requires a
great deal more work of the members of
the staff.

With the next issue of the ,paper an ex-
change column of about half a column will
be run. It will contain items of interest con-
cerning the various colleges in.the South
which are familiar to Davidson students.
One reason for the addition of this column
to the make-up of The Davidsonian is to
give news of interest from other places. Of
course the Intercollegiate Press fulfills this
purpose to a certain extent, but it is cen-
tered more on the nation as a whole rather
than on the Southland, as this particular
feature purposes to do.

Perhaps the more important reason for
this new inclusion is that the editor feels
that. one column of editorial matter is
enough to expect anyone to read. It is rather
disheartening to glance at the editorial page
and find two columns of ideas and opinions
of the editor.

In the concluding issue of the year a pic-
torial edition is to be run, showing, in ad-
dition to the leaders of the campus for next
year, some scenes of the campus. The pic-
tures are to be run in brown ink which will
give an effect at least different from that
given with black.

ods of showing one’s love, but they cannot
take the place of personal association on
that day.

The Y. M. C. A., in its regular program of
vesper service, has secured a Davidson
mother to speak Sunday evening, on a spe-
cial “Mother’s Day” program. As a tribute
to our own mothers every man who is on
the campus at that time should attend this
service, and dedicate at least that much time
to those‘who are due so much more.

4

Des Entrefilets

Socialism

Nicaragua

Vetoed

Advertising

41

A new wage system has recently been adopted

by the Soviet Government whereby each mine, fac-
tory, railroad, etc., will have the duty of fulfilling
its own contracts and the right to raise or lower
wages in proportion to the output of that individ-
ual industrial unit. This new arrangement has been
criticized by a large number of people and they
have even accused the Russians of making “a
compromise with capitalism.” But this accusation
is not in any way justified for socialism involves
planned production for use and not production for
profit as in capitalism, and this change of methods
does not in any manner make profit the object of
production. It is merely a human device to speed
up production and hasten the development of the
socialistic state. It is-foolish to even suggest that
Russia is turning capitalistic.

“If statistics tell anything, they show that busi-
ness has turned the corner.”—Roger W. Babsor:

Because of the banditry which is taking place on
the Atlantic coast of Nicaragua Secretary Stimson
has warned all Americans in the interior of that
country to withdraw, for, they “must not expect
American forces to be sent inland to their aid.” We
“cannot undertake general protection of American
citizens throughout that country with American
forces.” To do this, it seems “would lead to difficul-
ties and commitments which this government does
not propose to undertake.”

The United States has had forces stationed in
Nicaragua for the last twenty years because they
had a “fatherly” interest in maintaining law and
order in the country on account of its relation to
the Panama Canal and because the U. S. has held,
since 1916, a treaty right for the proposed Nicara-
guan canal. The government has even encouraged
Americans to enter Nicaragua specifically com-
mitting itself “to insure the adequate protection of
all American interests in Nicaragua, whether they
be endangered by internal strife or by outside in-
terference.” Since Americans have gone into Nicar-
agua with the above understanding it is but right
that they should expect the amount.of protection
which could reasonably be expected that any gov-
ernment would give its citizens under similar cir-
cumstances,

The election of a painter of international repute
as associate in the Royal Academy has been vetoed
by the president, Sir William Llewellyn, on the
grounds that one of the paintings submitted by
the artist was merely an enlarged photograph
thickly painted over. The artist admitted the act
but denied that he knew there were rules forbid-
ding the use of the above method.

Great Britain’s “greatest advertisement” is again
in London. Upon the arrival of the Prince of
Wales in his native country Prime Minister Mac-
Donald sent him the following message: “May I
express the loyal greetings and welcome home
which the whole nation wishes to offer your Royal
Highness and Prince George on your return today.”

“Man is like a tack—useful if he has a good
head and is pointed in the right direction—but even
though he is driven he can only go as far as his
head will let him.’—The Kodak Magazine.

If Senator Stephen Douglas and President James
Buchanan had not quarreled over the slavery
question Douglas would have been the Democratic
nominee for President in 1860.

If Douglas had received the solid support of his
party ie would have defeated Lincoln in the elec-
tion.

If Stephen Douglas had been President in 1861
he would not have given the South any reason to
leave the Union, thus the Civil War would have
been averted.

Therefore we see that it was really the hatred
of Buchanan for Douglas which caused this four-
year-war, that is, if we believe what George Milton
of the Chattanooga News tells us.

“Sterilization is not a punishment but a protec-
tion. It carries no stigma of humiliation. The im-
becile mind is criminal and you can’t breed it out.
Beginning of wrong-doing is hereditary and starts
in the secretive actions. By preventing reproduc-
tion, one of the basic causes can be cured.” So de-
clared Governor Murray of Oklahoma as he
signed the bill to sterilize the hopelessly insane.
This state is the fifteenth state in the Union to
adopt this legislation. i

Notwithstanding his right, Alphonso XIII seems
to be left—Louisville Courier-Journal.

The saddest story we have heard of lately is of
the absent-minded professor who jumped from an

e®

G-Saps Fables

By D. D. McB.

Pecccccccccesd

Peccccccccce

SPRING

The annual race between weeds and vegetables
is now well under way, though still a little under
weight. But then there is always a brighter side.
Spring is seldom as slushy as the poetry it in-
spires.. Wow! “What's the use of going to school
anyway?” sez me. But we should remember that
the little red school house is better than the little-
read citizen. We don’t want to be as ignorant as
the schoolboy who thought that “foreign entangle-
ments” meant “spaghetti.” That reminds us of the
guy who went into a highbrow restaurant, pointed
to a line on the French menu card, and told the
waiter to, bring him some of that, to whom the
waiter responded, sorta sweet and candid, “Sorry,
sir, but the orchestra is playing that.” But college
has its disadvantages as well. Pipe this conversa-
tion we overheard the other day:

Furst: “I started out, after I graduated from col-
lege, on the theory that the world had an opéning
or me.’

Seccun: “And you found it?”
Furst: “Well, rather! I’m in the hole now!”

OUR BOOK-OF-THE-WEEK SUGGESTIONS

(won). John Knox on “Death’s Door.”

(too), CURSORY REMARKS ON SWEARING
—By Gumm.

(nex). THE MIGRATION OF THE SWAL-
LOW. and other forms of sore throat—By Sur-
prise.

Now, as the automobile instructor said to his
pupil, “Let’s run over a few things together.” This
is for the purpose of getting through with this
column as soon as possible if not earlier—We
could print a lot of jokes, but you’d only laugh at
them—and this is a respectable column—we don’t
want anyone to die laughing—(Ed. Note: Don't
worry.)

TRADE MARK TRIOS

“What made Pontiac that way?”

“He asked La Salle for a date and she said it
was Willys Knight.”

“That's twice she’s worked that Dodge on him.
Did he reBuick her?” ;

“Not after she laid her little Auburn head on his
chest and—well, you know what a Kissell do.”

RHETORICAL REPARTEE
John Jackson to Bill Smith did say,
Like Sampson I my thousands slay.
Yes, cried his partner, ’deed you do,
And with the self-same weapon, too.

IF BILL S. HAD ATTENDED COLLEGE:

Fresh “A Comedy of Errors”
Soph “Much Ado About Nothing”
Junior “As You Like It”
Senior “All’s Well That Ends Well”

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

Dear Mr. A-SAP:

Here is a note that I received from a friend of
mine, a Math Professor. It is entitled,

“To A Lady

Who Asked Professor Z_------------ for a Cypher.

You O a O, but I O thee,

OO no O, but O O me.

O let, then, my O my O be,

And give back O OI O thee.”

Please tell me what you make of it. I don’t want
to appear dumb.

Yours, Ruth Boaz.

Dear Miss Ruth:

Following is the answer to the cypher:

“You sigh for a cypher, but I sigh for thee,

O sigh for no cypher, but O sigh for me.

O let, then, my sigh for my cypher be,

And give back sigh for sigh—for I sigh for thee!”

(Ed. Note: Ruth, surely, is stranger than fic-
tion).

A
TODAY’S BEST STORY

A man was walking by a graveyard one evening
and heard a strange noise. Being a kind old gentle-
man he sauntered over to find out what the trouble
was and saw a poor man, weeping and tearing his
hair, prostrate upon a grave, sobbing, “Oh, why
did you die? Oh, why did you die?”

“What's the matter, my good man?” he asked.
But the poor man just sobbed again and again,
“Oh why did you die?”

“Who died?” asked the kind old gentleman. ;

The poor man raised his head and with tears
in his eyes and broken voice answered, “My wife's
first husband.” -

aeroplane and didn’t open the parachute because
it was not raining—The De Paula.

A copy of the first edition of “Tom Sawyer”
fetched $1,225 at auction in New York last week—
just about one day’s pay, if we may believe the
gossip, of the youth who plays the hero’s part in
the screen dramatization of the story. — Boston
Evening Transcript.
