6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

President W. L. Lingle
Finds Old Document

Commencement Program of 1845
Given by Pittsburgh Man

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson
College, travels extensively, and on one of his
trips he returned with a prized possession. It
was an 1845 commencement program of Da-
vidson—the fifth graduation exercises of the
institution, and is perhaps the only one of that

year in existence today. The cut of this pro-|

gram was in last week’s Davidsonian.

Dr. Lingle was in Pittsburgh, visiting in the
study of Dr. Stuart Nye Hutchison, pastor
of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church of
that city, when he saw the program hanging
on the wall. Immediately the Davidson presi-
dent expressed a wish that it were in his office
at Davidson, but this time he left without it,

the Pittsburgh pastor prizing it greatly be-|

cause of the fact that both his father and uncle
were members of the 1845 graduating class.
Once again Dr. Lingle was in Pittsburgh
and a guest in Dr. Hutchison’s study. He could
not resist the temptation of giving expression
to his wish again, and this time Dr. Hutchison
said that he could take it. Dr. Lingle brought
it to Davidson, and today it is one of the most
valuable documents that Davidson possesses.
Many interesting things are observed from
the program. In the first place, graduation

came toward late summer, the final exercises‘

occurring on July 31st, 1845, while today the
scholastic session ends about.two months prior
to this time. College extended over a_ ten!
months’ period in those days, and started in|
October instead of ‘September, as is true of the |
present era.

With only a few exceptions, students who!
bear the names of men graduating in 1845, |
have been enrolled at Davidson during the last |
decade. They are names of men long identified |
with Davidson, in the capacity of students,
benefactors, or officials of the college. Several
of the second and third generations of these |
early Davidson graduates have been enrolled |
here as students within the last ten years. |

Incorporated cities or towns were limited in
those days, for a glance at the exercise con-
vinces one of that fact. The cities and localities
mentioned were New York, Charlotte, Greens-
borough, Sumpterville, S, C,, Sumter, S. C,,
and York, S. C., while the others gave their
residences in the different counties, such ‘as
Tredell, Robeson, Montgomery, Rowan, and

Mecklenburg. Fifteen men were listed as grad-
uates of 1845,

What was said about the identification of
names with Davidson is easily discernible in
the list of graduates that year, E. N. Hutchison,
J. A. Fox, J. H. Houston, J. B. McCallum,
W. M. Peacock, J. G. A. Dick, J. N. McNeely,
J. J. Bossard, A. E, Chandler, J. M. Davidson,
J. M. Gill, M. Lingle, H. McNeill, J. H. White,
and S. Nye Hutchison. Davidson has had grad-
uates within the last several years who bore
the names of Houston, McCallum, Dick, Mc-
Neely, Chandler, Davidson, Lingle, McNeill,
and White, and in many instances they have
been direct descendants.

In those days. each Senior was required to
make an address; in fact, many alumni today
can remember when they were required -to
make speeches as Seniors, and Juniors, and
no exceptions allowed. Modern-day topics of
discussion, howeyer}*Were of a more popular
appeal, while in the early days of Davidson, the
graduates dealt with abstract subjects, in a
large measure.

A few of them included, “Association of
Ideas,” “The Importance of Enlightened Public
Opinion,” “The Eccentricities of Genius,” “The
Evil Effects of Delusive Principles,” and “In-
dividual Effort.’ Of the more practical were
“Extension of National Territory,” “Old North
State,” “The American Navy,” “The American
Citizen,” “The Science of Government,” “Col-
lege Recollections,” and “South Carolina.”

Perhaps the most interesting of all the topics
of these Senior speeches was that on “The
Progress of Modern Science and the Causes
Which Operate Against Its Further Advance-
ment.” Were a copy of this speech obtainable
today, it would be an interesting document for
the medical societies; to learn the trend of
thought of a college graduate in 1845 toward
that profession, and the reason he thought that
medical science would not go forward,

Two brothers were honor men of the class
of 1834, E. Nye Hutchison, and S. Nye Hutch-
ison, salutatorian and valedictorian, repective-
ly. Most interesting is the fact that the salu-
tatory was delivered in Latin, and just how
long this practice continued is not known. It
is known, though, that as late as 1921 a Senior
made his speech in Latin, though this was not
a requirement: Another interesitng graduate of
the 1845 class was Moses Lingle, an‘ uncle of

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davi
ii avidson

The Honor Graduates

The Hutchison brothers, honor men, prom-
inent in the fields of medicine and business;
law and the ministry, and their descendants,
have followed in their footsteps of leadership.
Because of their close iderftification with Da-
-vidson and this section, a brief history of their

After graduating from Davidson, E. Nye
Hutchison attended the University uf Pennsyl-
vania, where he graduated in medicine in 1848,
and for a while he practiced medicine in Char-
lotte, later giving up this profession to enter
business. Dr. Hutchison had much to do with
the shaping of the policies that Davidson fol-
lowed, for he was on the board of trustees of
Davidson from 1859, 14 years after his gradu-
ation, until the time of his death in 1908—rep-
resenting a span of over half a century.

His interests extended to other .fields, for he
| was a director of Union Theological Seminary,
served as trustee of the General Assembly of
\the Southern Presbyterian Church for over 30
| years, was an elder in the Presbyterian Charch
| for over 50 years, and was largely instrumental
jin starting the North Carolina Presbyterian,
| which later changed its name to the Preshv-
jterian Standard, a publication which has been
| discontinued, at least temporarily, according to
|a statement made ten days ago. +
Dr. Hutchison was twice married. Four chil-
|dren were born to the first union, but none
| survive today. Of the second marriage, the liv-
| ing children today are Miss Charlee Hutchison;

Miss Bessie Jenkins Hutchison, Mrs. Thomas
| Clancy Evans (nee Anna Locke), and Messrs.:
Joel Jenkins, Eben Nye, Robert’ Stuart, and
| Francis Hutchison, all of whom live in Char-
| lotte.

Grandchildren of this early Davidson gradu-
ate, all of whom live in Charlotte, are Mrs.
Charles F. Dalton, Miss Susan Nye Hutchison,
| Miss Louise Erwin Hutchison, Miss Bettie
| Jenkins Hutchison, and Messrs. Joel Jenkins
Hutchison, Robert Stuart Hutchison, Jr., and
Thomas Clancey Evans, Jr.

S. Nye Hutchison

The valedictorian of the 1845 class likewise
gained distinction. For a few years after the
completion of his course at Davidson, Mr.
Hutchison practiced law in. Charlotte as a
partner of the late Judge Jas. W. Osborne,
but before doing this -he. obtained his master
of arts degree from Davidson. He later en-
tered Princeton Theological Seminary, “and
after his graduation there in 1862, he devoted
the remainder of his life to the ministry, largely
in northern territory. He was also a trustee
of Davidson, from 1850 to 1854, which was
quite a distinction for he had graduated oniy
five years previous.

His surviving children today reside largely
in the north, where he spent the greater por-
tion of his life. From his first marriage those
living today are Miss Susan Amanda Hutchison,
of Richmond, Va., and Mrs. Ernest Martin, of
Indianapolis, Ind. Of the second marriage, sur-
viving children are Dr. Stuart Nye Hutchison,
of Pittsburgh; Seeley Hutchison, superintend-
ent of schools at Mendham, N. J., and Mrs.
J. B. Leport (nee Emeline) of Sussex, N. J.

On down the list of graduates of 1845, just
as interesting an account could be written of
the men and their descendants, but space is
being devoted only to the two honor men,
which also shows that success attained by the
pioneer graduates of Davidson during their col-
lege days continue in later years.

1869 Society Program

Dr. Lingle has also come into possession
of another: interesting document, a program for
the two literary societies, the Philanthropic and
Eumenean, in the college, and today they are
still in existence, though older alumni mourn
the fact that their prestige in the campus life
and their prominence in the minds of the pres-
ent-day students has diminished within the past
few years because of diversified interests which
the students have.

Davidson commencement in 1869 conformed
closely to the present-day time, for the liter-
ary societies held their joint meeting on June
23rd. Particularly interesting is the manner in
which the time was expressed, 7 1-2 p. m., in-
stead of the conventional way of writing it
nowadays, as 7:30 p. m. Each society was al-
lowed three orators, and they likewise chose
the marshals.

Shorts
to
can be done.

lives is given below:

Orators of the 1869 commencement have
names that are likewise traditional with David-
son. From. North Carolina there was W. J.
McKay, B. G. Clifford, and E. W. Kerr. Ten-
nessee gave R. A. Lowry as an orator; Mis-
souri had M. F. Reinhardt, and South Caro-
lina, W. H. Stewart, which shows that David-
son was becoming more widely known, and
more than a few states were represented in
the graduating class.

Marshals of 1869 were A. Malloy, H. Mc-
Neil, R. S. Williams, and T. L. Kelly, all of
this state; E. E. Erwin, and G. B. Anderson,
both of South Carolina; F. A. Ramsey, of
Tennessee, and R. M. Kirkpatrick, of Alabama.

Arkansas.

Davidson College is proud to have these two
programs of the early days, and in the years
to come efforts will be made to gather many
other documents that will be valuable to this
institution, and interesting to the alumni and
friends of the college.

Students to Choose
Junior Cheerleaders

Nine Candidates Are Aspirants for
These Coveted Positions

As the Davidsonian goes to press on the eve
of the election for Junior cheer leader, interest
is shown in the student body, especially among
the Freshmen.

At the initial pep meeting for Freshmen, Ed
Kuykendall, head cheer leader for the session
1931-32, introduced the candidates for election
to the offices for Junior cheer leaders to the
assembled students. The purpose of his intro-
duction was to place these candidates before
the new men, in order that they might recog-
nize them on election day, as two had to be
chosen from the group of’ nine aspirants for
the honor.

Those out for cheer leaders are: Brooke Al-
len, Tom Bowles, Joseph Bryant, Bob Glasgow,
Johh Lake, Anderson Little, Leland McKeithan,
Bruce Sugg, and Jack Stewart. Wednééday
morning at chapel the balloting to choose the
new cheerios will be conducted by the Senior
cheer leader.

The successful candidates will assist Kuyken-
dall at all major athletic events, and one will
be named Senior cheer leader for 1932-33. This
is a distinct honor on the Davidson campus, and
the holder of the position is awarded the var-
sity “D” for his services.

New Business Staff of
Davidsonian Announced

The newly elected staff on the business end
of The Davidsonian has been announced. P. M.
Conway, business manager of the paper for
1931 and 1932, gives the eight names of the
men who will succeed the present managers.
The future managers will serve in the capacity
of assistants to those in charge and are chosen
from the Sophomore and Junior classes. The
assistant managers selected from the rising
Junior class are: A. L. Mebane, J. W.. Whitted,
and A. M. Manson. W. R. Morrow is the
newly appointed subscription manager and it
will be his duty to look after the mailing list
and supply both the student body and alumni
with a copy of Davidson’s weekly paper. The
solicitors chosen are: W. T. Johnson, J. F.
Neal, A. H. Manson, and L. B. Wooten. The
solicitors are interested in the advertising side
and solicit space from merchants in order to
defray to some extent the current expenses made
in editing a newspaper.

It makes no particular difference to anybody,
I suppose, what my views are.—George Whar-
ton Pepper.

sea

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
a variety that will make it,easy for the most fastidious
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
RANA

I believe that sequestering private enemy
property in time of war is unsporting——John
Galsworthy.

DAVIDSON TEAMS INTRODUCE
PASS

(Continued from pgae 1)

B. Huntington, of Wilmington, right end; W.
| A. Elliot, of Washington, D. C., quarterback ;
| Miller, of ————, left half; R. E. Denny, of

Durham, right half, and Dr. Hamilton W. Mc-
| Kay, of Charlotte, fullback and captain. The Da-
| vidson team was coached that year by R. S.
'Graham, a graduate of the University of Vir-
ginia.

In the October issue of the “Davidson Col-
lege Monthly Magazine” in 1906, this state-
ment is made: “By the time of the publication

The chief marshal was R. B. McAlpine, of | of this number of the magazine, the new foot-

| ball rules will have been tested in a very im-
_ portant game, and we can only wonder what
this trial will culminate. So it is with great
interest that we look forward to this first game.”
This same magazine in December, 1906, in speak-
ing of the forward pass in the Davidson-Tech
game, said: “Hightower of Tech made 25 yards
/on a forward pass. Davidson attempted but a
| single pass.”
| Another number of the magazine, in Novem;
| ber, 1906, stated: “The new rules certainly have
ladded ginger to the plays and as to the rough-
‘ness, opinions are varied. But one fact we no-
| tice is that there are not so many players hurt.”
| Continuing with Fuzzy Woodruff, he said
later on in his book: “In considering the foot-
ball season of 1906, we must take into consid-
eration the fact that this was the first year of
*the forward pass and that the game was largely
one of experimentation. Coaches knew as. little
labout the use of the overhead attack .as the
| players, and they had made absolutely no prog-
|ress in arranging a defense against this means
|of gaining ground, The passes that year were
jalmost uniformly rainbow affairs, generally
|thrown pretty much at random in the hope that
some eligible player would get close to one.
Passing was used generally as a last resort or
a forlorn hope.”

In 1910 Floyd Simmons was coach at David-
son. He says that at that time the Davidson
team was light compared with some heavy teams
of the state and that it had to “go some” to
compete with them.

He mentioned Ev Booe who was passer.
It is interesting to note the way the coach
trained Booe. Hoops were placed in a row
across the field and used as targets. Booe was
an expert shot and finally became so good
that he could throw in the hoops from almost
any angle. The forward pass was used widely
that year and netted 316 points to the. oppo-
nents’ 16.

VANDERBILT SPEAKER

(Continued from pgae 1)

Great’men are judged by their great moments,
and the advantage which they make of them.
George Washington became great by the way
he used his great moments.

At a sermon, perhaps, you will catch some
phrase that will be a “bright interval” in your
religion, and therefore in your life. Eternity is
not far away; we are not long upon this carth,
therefore we should try to find our “bright in-
terval,” our “great moment” in religion.

WILDCATS TO CLASH

(Continued from pgae 1)

thing, while Coach Monk and Tilson kept
back practically all the plays and played straight
football. Coach “Clipper” Smith and Frank
Reese, backfield coach, attended the Davidson-
Elon game to find out what sort of opposition
they might expect..They didn’t find out much
that was not already known and the Wildcats
may have quite a few surprises for them on
Saturday.

Wherever you see a poet, you will usually
discover money somewhere in the offing.—Rob-
ert Lynd.

There are bright intervals also in religion.

WEEKEND PARTIES

(Continued from pgae 1)

ysk lotte, N. C.; Amelia Webb,
Rose Lysk, Charlo ret by

Charlotte, N. C.; Jean Marion,
N. C

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Misses May
Grey Efird, Charlotte, N. C.; Agnes Watkins,
Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret O'Hanlon, Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.; Estelle Follin, Winston-
Salem, N. C.; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem,
N. C.; Elizabeth Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Eliza-
beth Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Eleanor Bell,
Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Beth Purvis, Charlotte,
N. C, and Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem, N. C.

KAPPA SIGMA: Misses Virginia Knee,
Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Elizabeth Motte, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Celiste Reagle, Charlotte, N. Gi;
Elizabeth Sheldon, Charlotte, N. C.; Bertha
Burch, Charlotte, N. C.; Jane Fallow, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Adeline Wooley, Charlotte, N.C;
Margaret Banks, Greensboro, N. C.; Bobbie
Jean Truesdale, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Mor-
rison, Asheville, N. C.; Mildred Brown, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Mary) Neal Moody, Charlotte, N.
C.; Frances Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Helen
Cox, Greensboro, N. C., and Heistand Scott,
Davidson, N. C.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Misses Tut Gor-
rell, Greensboro, N. C.; Nancy O’Hanlon, Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Cunning-
ham, Greensboro, N. C.; Dot Ethridge, Suffolk,
Va.; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte, N. C., and Har-
riet Thompson, Charlotte, N. C.

PI KAPPA PHI: Misses Peggy Foreman,
Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Johnston, Charlotte,
N. C.; Polly Moore, Greensboro, N. C.j Stella
Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Margaret Melchor,
Mooresville, N: C., and Minna Caldwell, Char-
lotte, N. C.

THETA UPSILON OMEGA: Misses Nina
Crawford, Albemarle, N. C.; Becky Rodgers,
Albemarle, N. C.; Zilla-Odell, Concord, N. C.;
Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Julia
Josephs, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred Beasley,
Charlotte, N. C.; Billie Deaton, Statesville, N.
C.; Dot Fredrickson, Charlotte, N. C.; Helen
Yandel, Charlotte, N. C.; Emily Alexander,
Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Young, Charlotte, N.
C.; Burdett Scales, Monroe, N. C.; Jane Clark,
Monroe, N. C.; Dot Skinner, Charlotte, N. C.;
Laura Wilkes, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Amelia
Tipton, Charlotte, N. C. Isabelle Martin, Char-
lotte, N. C.

PHI DELTA THETA: Misses Jane Secrest,
Monroe, N. C.; Panky Allen, Charlotte, N. C.;
Elizabeth Allen, Charlotte, N. C.; Celia Wads-
worth, Charlotte, N. C.; Salley Couch, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Virginia Jenkins, Shelby, N. C.;
Mouise Galloway, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Molley

Gregg, Laurinburg, N. C.; Elizabeth Wills,
Greensboro, N. C., and Mary Brant, Flor-
ence, S. C. ‘

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Misses Catherine
Crowell, Charlotte, N. C.; Gwendcline Scruggs,
Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Scruggs, Charlotte,
N. C.; Sarah Erwin, Charlotte, N. C.; Chris-
tine White, Rock Hill, S. C.; Grace Jupson,
Charlotte, N. C.; Fredrika Hallam, Davidson,
N. C.; Carolena Moffatt, Davidson, N. C.;
Myrtalie Wakefield, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth
McCanless, Rockingham, N. C.; Edress McFie,
Rockingham, N. C.; Mary Lurch, Charlotte,
N. C., and Jane Lurch, Charlotte, N. C.

National injustice is the surest road to na-
tional downfall.—Gladstone.

SCARLET
TANAGER

TOBACCOS - - SODAS
SUNDRIES

and

MAGAZINES

ed
OK)

Davidson Theatre

“BAD

MONDAY, SEPT. 28

TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29 and 30

“SIDEWALKS OF NEW YORK”

WITH BUSTER KEATON
THURSDAY, OCT. 1

“AMERICAN TRAGEDY”

WITH PHILLIPS HOLMES
FRIDAY, OCT. 2

“REBOUND”

WITH INA CLAIRE
SATURDAY, OCT. 3

“MURDER BY THE CLOCK”

GIRL”

Bed

