BEAT
WAKE FOREST

|

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

BEAT
WAKE FOREST

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 25, 1931

cn

—
No. 11

WI

Inspiring Fall Y. M. CA.
Services Are Conducted
By Dr. Robert W. Miles

“Adjustments” and “Leadership of
Jesus in Life” Are Main Topics

McCLURE IS SONG LEADER

Speaker is Now Pastor of Presbyterian
Church in Lynchburg, Virginia

* Starting last Tuesday morning at chapel and
continuing through Friday evening, the annual
Fall Services of the Y. M. C. A.
The speaker was Dr. Robert W. Miles, pastor
of , the Church of
Lynchburg, Va. The general themes of the

were held.

Westminster Presbyterian
services were “Adjustments,” and “Leadership
of Jesus in Life.” Besides the talks at chapel
and in the evening, Dr. Miles had a great many
personal interviews with students, helping them
solve problems which troubled them. The sing-
ing at the services was led by Albert McClure,
who graduated from Davidson last year and is
now at Union Theological Seminary.

In the final address made in the series of

meetings conducted by Dr. Robert W. Miles, |

his text was based on Phillipians, the second
chapter, verses 7-11. In opening the meeting,
Don King extended to Dr. Miles the sincere
appreciation of the student body for his serv-
ices, expressed the hope that Dr. Miles would
come again to Davidson on a similar mission.

The speaker began by portraying the graphic
relation of man towards God and Christ. It
was shown that God was in one position, man
in another, and Christ stood in between serving
as a Mediator or Intercessor. This fact being
assumed, the importance of a personal relation-
ship with Christ was readily pointed out; be-
cause Christ is our only hope for salvation and
He throws out the challenge to us to live more
like Him by patterning our whole lives ‘with
Him as our Ideal.

Briefly outlining the method of yaining a
personal relationship with Christ, Dr. Miles
stated that naturally the primary feature was
the elimination of sin from our lives. He classi-
fied sin into the two groups of omission and
commission, and as the sin of commission had
been previously discussesd, the remainder of the

address was devoted to the defining of the sin |

of omission. Dr. Miles gave a striking illustra.
tion of this by citing an incident which occurred
in a deciding game of baseball in 2 world
series. It was in the ninth inning with the score
tied, and the Yankees had been retired, leaving
the Giants in for the last half of the inning.

By dint of good fortune, the Giants had put |

two men on bases before the second out, then
somebody popped up, making the second out.
Another batter came up, singled to first, driving
in a run, and as he saw the runner cross the
home plate, he stopped running as he was on

his way from first to second. Evers, the Yan-|
kee first baseman, saw the error and had the |

ball thrown to second, putting the runner out,
and cancelling the winning run. Thus, the bat-
ter who, had won the game lost it because he
neglected: to tag second base. The next day
the Yankees won the tie-off game and conse-
quently the series. A series lost because of a
“sin” of omission. Such is our case. If we do
ever so many important things and forget to
do—or neglect to do—the primely essential

thing, then we are guilty indeed of the sin of
omission.

Another point by which we can get nearer to
Christ, our Mediator, was suggested by Dr.
Miles in that we should learn that after all our
God suffers, and that we should suffer with
Him. In illustrating this fact, a quotation from
the play, “Green Pactures,” was given. In this
play reference was made to the comparison of
the Negro’s conception of God to He whom
they mentioned as Hosea’s God, the God who
suffered. In closing, Dr. Miles said that if we
experienced a real suffering over some sin
known to us that by all means we should use
this to build a firm foundation for a real friend-
ship with Christ who had suffered and still
suffered for the sins of His people. This type
of relationship was aptly expressed by Paul
when he said that he was yearning for a fellow-
ship' with the sufferings of Christ.

Davidson Dramatic Club
Presents Mystery Play

“The Haunted House” to Be Given by
Red and Black Masquers, Dec. 11

On Friday evening, December 11, the Masq-
uers will submit for entertainment their first
three-act presentation of the year, “The Haunt-
ed House,” by Owen Davis, which, if it does
not cause the hair of the audience to stand
erect, is at least calculated to evoke volleys of
laughter, it being farcical in nature, or in the
language of the street, to tickle their jiblets.
The play was first produced at the George M.
Cohan Theatre in New York on September 2,
1924,

The action of the story takes place in the
country home of Edward Evans in Cedar Point,
Conn., a house which, by rumor and on the
attestation of Mr. Evans himself, is at odd mo-
ments invaded by ghosts, departed spirits, and
the like, which caused footsteps, clanking chains,
wild laughter—all in the mysterious room over-
head. The neighbors are unusual people, an
author (who has a mania for detective fiction,
which is responsible for his writing such as
“The Purple Smear,” etc.), and his tolerating
wife.

To this peaceful environ come Jack and his
bride, the parts of which taken by J.
Simpson and Miss Mattie McLemore (respective
hero and heroine of “The Mayor and the Mani-
cure’), and nothing daunted by the dread tales
of mystery her’ father, owner of the haunted
house, has unfolded, they, the newlyweds, choose
this house for their honeymoon, (This is as
much of the story as the reporter was able to
pump from the playmakers.—Ed_ note.)

are

Among those in the cast are E. A. Hancock,
Miss Carrie Lena Moffett, remembered from
“Suppressed Desires,” Bill McIlwinen, who
again assumes a female role in his inimitable
way; Jack Williams, who took Olson in
“Bound East for Cardiff”; while the. lead, that
of the author who proposes to unravel the ever-
thickening mystery, is assumed by J. G. Wom-
ble, new on the Masquers’ stage. Finally, but
not least important, Ezra, the town constable,
and Ed, the affable and unassuming New York
TWO—DAVIDSONIAN aAVLIrnFruh,
detective, are taken by roommates, the gentle-
men who by their skit on Stunt Night took the
prize for ‘the Freshman class, Gordon Wood
jand Dave McLain. Two parts remain unfilled
|at present. The play is directed by H. W. Ervin,
lwhile W. A. Flinn is stage manager.

| Stage Set No. 3 is in course of construction,
jand will be ready in a few days for rehearsals.

| Meanwhile the Masquers are casting about for

| performance dates away from school. It is very

| probable that the second performance of “The

{Haunted House” will be in Statesville, either

/at Mitchell College or at the Playhouse.

At a recent meeting of the Masquers Key
(Continued on page 8)

“Bud” Raker, Wildcat Captain, who will
bring his brilliant three-year career on the
gridiron to a close when Davidson meets
Wake Forest at Charlotte Thanksgiving Day.

I. R. C. Gives Bids to

Nine New Members

The International Relations Club
tional student organization for the purpose of
studying and discussing current national prob-
lems and affairs of international scope. Men
on the campus who are interested in topics of
this nature were invited to write a paper, and
on the basis of these a group was selected.

The following nine men were chosen: A. G.
Campbell, Jr., R. P. Davis, J. G. Dunklin, Rob-
ert Glasgow, J. W. Lee, A. G. Little, W. R.
Morrow, Jr., Leland McKeithen, and Arhtur
Ross.

A, Graham Campbell attended Palmer. College
at DeFuniak Springs, lla., for two years and

is a na-

is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fra-
ternity.
Robert Pickens Davis is a member of Le

(Continued™gn page 8)

}guage Association this year. This will be the

Language Association to
Convene on November 27

South Atlantic Modern Language As-
sociation to Hold Fourth Annual
Meeting in Columbia

the
Lan-

well represented at
Atlantic Modern

will be
meeting of the South

Davidson

fourth annual meeting of the association, and
will be held in Columbia, S. C., on Novem-
ber 27 and 28. High school and college teach-
ers of English, French, Spanish, or German,
representing the two Carolinas, Georgia and
Florida, are*invited to join the convention and
be present at this meeting.

The association was organized in Atlanta in
1928 to give the teachers the opportunity of
getting together and discussisng the promotion
of these languages and the changes that have
come about in them, Various talks will be given,
the principal one an address by Dr. H. C.
Lancaster of Johns Hopkins University. Most
of the speeches, however, will be given to -spe-
cial groups concerning the language in which
they are particularly interested. The chairmen
of the different sections are as follows: Span-
Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Davidson College;
Dr. A. Varmont, Converse College;
Dr. C. A. Drummell, Duke Univer-
sity; Tnglish, Dr. J. 3. Hubbell, Duke Uni-
j} versity. The discussions in the German group
| will deal,chiefly with Goethe, since this is the
lone hundredth anniversary of his death.

Prof. I. J. Erwin, professor of English at
| Davidson, is president of the association. The

ish,
French,

German,

jother officer of this organization is the secre-
|tary, FE. F. HWamff, of Emory University. The
| executive committee is as follows: F. C. Taylor,
North Carolina; A. Vermont,
T. K. Easthurn, Brenau

| University of
College ;
| College; FE. V. Gage, Florida S. C. W.; F.
LW. Bradley, University of South Carolina,

| Converse

e)

The professors from Davidson who are ex-
pecting to attend are: Dr. Vowles, Prof.
Fleagle, Dr. Watts, Prof. Goldiere, Prof.
| Blythe, Dr. Cumming, and Prof. Erwin. How-
who have not definitely “decided

lever, others

| may attend.

Davidson was the host to seventy-five dele-
gates from twenty different colleges at the third
annual convention of the association last year.
The assembly at that time was presided over
Dr. F. W. Bradley, of the University of
South Carolina, and the group was formally
welcomed to Davidson by Dr. J. M. McConnell,
dean of instruction. At this meeting it was de-
cided not to invite the educational institutions
in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, or Alabama
to align themselves with the association, be-

by

LDCATS PRIMED FOR DEMON DEACS.

Captain Raker

CHARLOTTE HIGH FIELD
TO BE THE SCENE OF
ANNUAL GRID CLASSIC

Small, Scrappy Davidson Team Is All
Set for Larger Wake Forest
Forces

NEITHER TEAM FAVORED

Wake Forest Is Undefeated by David-
son for Ten Years

The Fighting Wildcats of Davidson College
will encounter Wake Forest's “Demon Deacons”
Turkey Day the
High School Stadium in Charlotte on Novem-

in their annual classic in
her 26: These two schools have met since 1908
with the Presbyterians holding the upper hand
through 1920, and then the long path turned
and Wake Forest assumed the ascendency, and
has held it ever since, though the ‘Cats have
tied them four times.

This the

matched as far as comparative scores are con-

year two teams are very evenly
cerned. However, these mean very little when
it comes to the final settlement of the query on
the gridiron. Wake Forest will present a strong
team, particularly potent at the tackle berths,
where they have two human mountains to keep
the ‘enemy offense in check.

The Wildcats, as usual, have a small, scrappy
eleven, with an array of shifty backs led by
the diminutive halfback, Charlie Pearce, whose
deadly left toe has taken Davidson out of many
a hole, his quick kicks at Chapel Hill being
of special notice. The fleetfoots of Davidson,
Peabody and Flinn, are expected to see action,
and should give those big linemen something
to worry about. But taking it all in all, the
teams look about even when it comes to indi-
vidual stars.

Neither team an outstanding suc-
cess in the percentage column that deals with
and But in consideration the
of their competition, both teams have
passed through a creditable season. Wake For-
est’s outstanding victories include a 6-0 victory
over the powerful N. C. State eleven which,
incidentally, humbled the 'Cats, 18-7, in a noe-
turnal fracas in the Memorial Stadium in
Greensboro; and 12-0 wins over both Erskine

has had

wins losses. of

class

and Presbyterian College. Nevertheless the gi-
gantic Duke under: the tutelage of
Wallace Wade, took the “Dekes” into camp
by the impressive score of 28-0. Davidson and

gridders,

this same Wade machine played to a scoreless

tie on Richardson Field. Last Saturday both

cause of the great distances separating the in-
stitutions. However, the proposal of inviting
certain individuals from these states was

adopted.

“Y” DOING VITAL WORK

| Davidson is known throughout the South as
}a church school. No one would dispute the fact
that the influences exerted upon our student
body are largely Christian. The efforts of the
administration and faculty are centered in this
direction. The ™” and other religious organ-
izations on the campus attempt to exert such an
influence on the thinking, activities and atti-
tudes of the campus. It is the aim of their
existence. It is the mainspring of their vitality.
It is not, however, an end in itself. It is a
|means of stimulating the men of our campus
to activity. The result of an influence is the
test of its character. It would be impossible to
demonstrate some of the results of this influ-
ence which pervades our campu¢ life. ‘Some of
the most real are invisible. It is the remote
|cause of many of our expressions of our higher
selves. :

There are, however, some evidences of a re-
sponse to this influence which are visible. Many
men take advantage of the opportunities for
service which are offered to them by the “Y.”
Each Sunday there are about 35 men teaching
in nine different Sunday Schools. Services are
conducted regularly at the nearby convict camp
and at Mecklenburg Sanatorium. At both of
these places our men supply the only religious
services which they receive. It would be safe
to say that at least five hundred people are
touched by this group of men. One of the most

“

outstanding pieces of home mission work in this
section of the state is being done by members
of our student’ body. One man devotes his full
time when not on, class or engaged in college
duties. He holds an up-to-date ‘Sunday School
on Sunday afternoons and conducts an evening
service and mid-week prayer service in the local
mill village. About six members of the student
body are associated with him in the work of
his Sunday School. Four men walk about five
miles each Sunday out to ‘Shearer’s Chapel to
hold services and visit during the day. They are
doing a most fruitful work in this point.

In the boys’ work many men are given an
opportunity to continue their interest in scout-
ing. The “Y” supports a local Scout troop, one
in Cornelius, a Hi-Y in Cornelius, and one in
Davidson, a negro Scout troop and a Boys’
Club for the mill village. About ten men are
used in this work, which reaches at least one
hundred and twenty-five boys.

The deputation work of the “Y” is one of the
most interesting and resultful phases of its
work. These deputations not only render a serv-
ice to churches in this vicinity, but also, serve
as a means of developing active Christian lead-
ership on the part of our men. These groups
take charge of young people’s' meetings and
evening church services. Some deputations ex-
tend over the entire week-end. Thus far the
total number of deputations for the year total

ON CAMPUS

13 and the number of men who have been sent
out 69. It would be difficult
the value of the influence of these men
young life with which they come in contact. |
The -men-themselves, however, receive the great-
est benefit from this work in their own  per-
sonal development.

is

on |

These are some of the more evident activi-
ties of our men outside the circle of campus |
life. We are familiar with the activities on our
campus. At least three men have a part in each |
vesper servicé’ and three men are used each
week to lead devotionals in chapel. Besides the |
organized efforts upon our campus there
evident the personal activity of individuals.

These are not facts which should call forth
a feeling of smug satisfaction. Rather they
should challenge us to loftier heights. It should
call forth not only a group response but a re-
sponse in the heart and conscience of each man |
in the student body. It demonstrates that the
influence of a church school is after all result- |
ful. When we think, however, of the number |
and intensity of the influences which have been |
brought to play upon this old campus, we real-
ize that we have yet many heights to scale.

There are few men on our campus who are
not familiar with the details of the athletic,
scholastic and social activity of the student
body. Perhaps there are many on our campus

(Continued on page 8)

is

| Wake Forest

teams were utterly crushed: in their attempts
Jagainst opponents, Davidson bowing to North
| Carolina, 20-0, while away down in Georgia
| Oglethorpe Was running through the Baptists
at will to run up a 37-0 score against them,
No one can make anything of the scores in
that Duke tied. Duke over-
whelmed the Deacons, Erskine tied Davidson,
hand. Wake Forest: sunk Erskine. Nothing’ con-

|
|
|

and Davidson

to estimate | Clusive can come from that.

Both teams’ records for the 1931 season fol-
low:

Wake
0, _N.
6, Furman 36,

6, N. C. State 0.
0, Duke 28.

Forest
Wake Forest Carolina 37,
Wake Forest
Wake Forest
Wake Forest 12, Erskine 0:

Wake Forest 12, Presbyterian 0.
Wake Forest 0, Oglethorpe 37.

1

Davidson
Davidson 13, Elon 2.
7,_N._C,. State
Hh NW toe.) bad 0).
O- Ve P18)
0, Duke 0.
0, Erskine 0.
7; Vie M0;
14, Citadel 7.
0, N. Carolina 20.

The annual Thanksgiving Day fracas between
these two ancient foes is expected to draw the
biggest crowd of the year to Charlotte, and
even surpass the attendayce of the N. C. State-
Clemson game, held in that city earlier in the
year. The fans will undoubtedly see a scrap,
with the “Dekes” trying to keep their suprem-

(Continued on page 8)

Davidson 18.
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
