THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

w

‘ WILDCATS MEET
STATE IN
GREENSBORO
SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMAN TEAM
ASSUMES SHAPE

=

When the ole home team fails to come
through with the well known bang, and
when the annual big noise and whoopee fol-
lowing a victory is observed to be lacking
more than usual, a sports columnist finds
himself in an unenviable position, Should he
be hypocritical in his comments or should
he make alibis for the boys; should he at-
tempt to locate the root of the trouble or
let matters take care of themselves?

For the second time in years Elon has
scored on the Wildcats—admittedly by a
freak this time, but a score none the less.
And a score of 13-2 for the Wildcats over
the Christians is not the usual run of things.
Comparative scores in recent years in prac-
tically all cases show shut-outs for David-
son over Elon, with the ’Cats maintaining
scores of usually thirty points or over.

It is obvious that Coaches Monk and Tex,
in making numerous substitutions, were at-
tempting to discover the best line and back-
field combinations, and this undoubtedly
brought down ‘the Wildcat scoring possi-
bilities. In addition to this, according to
Coach Monk, the team as a whole displayed
an attitude which was by no means a win-
ning one. In other words, they collectively
played merely for the sake of playing and
not to win. Time and again the Christians
threatened to score, and were it not for the
fact that the breaks were against them, they
would doubtless have scored.

Yards gained from scrimmage: Elon 119,
Davidson 222. Not so bad. First downs:
Elon 8, Davidson 9. Not so good.

One fact should not be disregarded, how-
ever, and that is that Elon undeniably has
a very good.'team this year as compared
with past years. That, to some extent, low-
ered the margin of their defeat by the Wild-
cats. Their passing attack, led by Pete Wil-
liams, completely baffled the ’Cats, and five
completed passes out of twelve attempted
netted them about 53 yards.

However, despite the gloomy outlook, we
are cheered up by the unusually good show-
ing of Gardner in his new role at half, and
the flashy work of Pierce, who made both
touchdowns for the ’Cats. When Gardner
finds a hole, we notice that he goes through
it like a ton of bricks, and when he finds no
-hole, he immediately proceeds to make one
big enough for a house and lot.

With Gardner as interference and Pierce
carrying the ball, we see no reason why
ten or twenty yards shouldn’t result each
time. Pierce’s run of about twenty-eight
yards for the first touchdown was one of
the neatest pieces of running of the entire
game, and his elusive side-stepping brought
the entire stands to their feet.

Not forgetting the line, the work of Mathis
at guard must not be overlooked, as well as
as that of Brown at right-end, whose defen-
sive work was especially noticeable.

Coach Younger is holding night sessions
this week with all the backfield candidates,
and we predict a good scrap in Greensboro
Saturday night when the ’Cats meet N. C.
State. For the past two yeats Davidson has
beaten the Wolfpack, and from all reports
Clipper Smith is truly gunnin’ for the Wild-
cats. It is reported that the Wolfpack has
been weakened by various and sundty in-
juries, but with the sting of two successive
defeats in as many years, and considering
the mediocre showing of the Wildcats last
Saturday, it will be an inspired Wolfpack
which goes on the field next Saturday. At
least a fifty per cent improvement in form
will be necessary forthe ’Cats to compete
effectively. and win.

This game with State will prove in some
measure the acid test, for the Wildcats
Whether Monk Younger’s pre-season pessi-
mism was justified or not will! soon be
Proved; and if the showing of the ’Cats
against Elon was no indication of their rela-

tive strength, this game should confirm the
point,

.

“Bud” Raker Will Captain
Wildcat Football Team
On Gridiron This Season

Doc Mathis Elected Alternate Captain

“Bud” Raker, of Lexington, will captain the
Wildcats on the gridiron this fall. Selection of
Raker as their leader was made at a meeting
of the lettermen last Thursday night. “Doc”
Mathis was selected as alternate captain.

Since last season, the coaching staff had been
wondering if a plan of appointing a different
player to serve as captain in each game would
not prove superior to having a captain, selected
by the lettermen, lead the Wildcats throughout
the schedule.

Coaches Younger and Tilson had hoped to
change the precedent and start out the new plan
this year, and for that reason selection of a
captain was not made at the close of the 1930
schedule. But, after much consideration, the
staff changed its mind and called for a meeting
of the lettermen last Thursday night, leaving
the rfatter up to them.

Since only lettermen who are out for the var-
sity were present at the meeting, the voting did
not include lettermen who played on the 1930
Wildcatweleven and graduated last spring.

Raker, who is playing his third> year as a
member of the varsity, is playing an end posi-
tion this fall. He was shifted from tackle, where
he has been the past two seasons, to the flank
position when Coaches Younger and Tilson
thought he would prove more valuable to the
team at the latter post. A scarcity of ends was
caused by the graduation of Jim Procter and
the failure of Mart Miller to return to school
this year. :

Mathis, who was selected as Raker's alter-
nate, is also playing his, third year as a varsity
member. He patrols a guard post. Besides be-
ing a leader on-the Wildcat gridiron, Mathis is
also a stellar forward on the basketball court
and an outfielder on the baseball diamond. He
was selected last winter to captain the Davidson
five in 1931.

Freshman Squad Is
Heavier Than Usual

The Freshman football’ squad is shaping into
a Wildkitten eleven now after practice which
has included the various forms of early train-
ing. The squad is heftier than that of last year
and at present seems a bit better. In addition
it might be said that the boys are showing
good spirit and working hard. The number of
boys at work is smaller than usual but new
players are reporting and it is probable that
there will be as many as in former years. The
coaches urge all men of size in the Freshman
class to come out and draw uniforms, which
are still accessible.

Those who apparently look best in their re-
spective positions are.as follows: Centers, Lee,
Van Story and Batte; guards, Rives, Potter,
Brewer and Ben and Charlie Forte; tackles,
Hand, Sievers, Smith, Gomez and Macafie ;
ends, Morris, Morgan, Miller and Koenig ;
quarterbacks, Mackorell, West and Hufford;
fullbacks, Caton, Dupuy and Morrison; half-
backs, Wingfield, Hutchins, Rogers, Bernado

and Bumgarner,
]
In addition to the above players there are

several°who show promise of development and,
since the team is not picked, it is largely a
matter of conjecture as to those who will make
up the final selection.

Twenty-eight Men
Compete in Tennis

The Davidson College fall tennis tourna-
ment opened last Monday, September 21, with
twenty-eight entrants. This competition is for
the purpose of selecting a six-man team to play
any matches which are scheduled for the fall.

Five men were seeded in the following order :
Halverstadt, DuBose, Lafferty, Calder and My-
ers. All of these men, with the exception of
Myers, drew a bye in the first* round of the
tournament.

The results of the first matches were as. fol-
lows: Morrow defeated McIlwaine, 6-0, 7-5;
Lake defeated Dill, 6-2, 6-1; Bernhardt defeat-
ed Marvin, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Enloe defeated Mc-
Lean, 7-5, 6-4; T. H. McCallie defeated Se-
vier, 9-7, 7-5; McKeithen defeated Mullis, 4-6,
6-4, 6-0; Harrison defeated Caldwell, 6-0, 6-4;
McCall defeated Rice, 6-3, 6-3; Myers defeated
Kirkpatrick, 6-3, 6-4; Spencer defeated Dwelle,
6-3, 6-3; Moss defeated Marvin, 6-1, 6-4;
Schenck defeated McCallie, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.

Thére is a match pending with the Greens-
boro Country Club for Saturday, September
26, to be played there. If this match material-
izes, six men will make the trip to Greens-

(Continued on page 4)

Doc Mathis, Alternate
Captain of Wildcats

’Cats Have Won Six
Out of Twenty-one
Clashes With State

When N. C. State and Davidson meet in
their night football game in the World War
Memorial Stadium at Greensboro at 8 o'clock
next Saturday, it will be the 21st meeting of
these two institutions. State and Davidson start-
ed their football melees in 1899, and in the in-
tervening time the Technicians have won 11
the victorious
in six, and four of them have ended in knotted
The Wolfpack has twice as
many points as the Wildeats. Four of David-
son's victories have been chalked up since 1925,
and two have been won in the last two years.
The all-time record follows:

of contests, Davidson has been

counts. scored

Year State Davidson
1899 0 0
1900 0 17
1901 27 6
1902 0 5
1907 6 0
1908 21 0
1913 26 6
1916 0 0
1917 7 3
1919 36 6
1920 23 0
1921 3 3
1922 15 0
1923 12 6
1924 10 10
1925 0 9
1926 : 0 3
1927 25 6
1928 14 7
1929 0 13:
1930 0 12
a
Totals 225 112

Annual Cake Race Will
Be Held Friday, Sept. 26

The Freshman Class will hold its annual
cake race Friday, September 25, at 4:30 p. m.,
over a course 1.7 miles long, and all Freshmen
are invited to enter. Those men going out for
Freshman football are not expected to enter,
however, as the purpose of the race is to find
new track material. H. L. Whittle, Director. of
Intramural Athletics, especially urged that as
many Freshmen enter the race as possible for
the reason that some man who thinks himself
not proficient in athletics may find that he has
some ability in track work.

As an extra incentive for entering the cake
race, there will be ten prizes awarded to the
winners, presented by the local boarding houses
and merchants. This race is also being run to
line up some of the men who will enter the
cross-country meets, several of which are to
be held this fall.

The Freshman record at present is held by
Rufus Morrow, ’34, who won the race last year

with a time limit of 10 minutes, 30 seconds.

’Cats Defeat Christians
Saturday Afternoon in
‘Year’s First Game, 13-2

Game Marked by Much Fumbling and
Spotty Blocking and Tackling

The Davidson Wildcats won over the Elon
Christians with a score of 13 to 2, in the open-
ing game here last Saturday afternoon. It was
a typical early season game, rather ragged
with considerable fumbling and spotty block-
ing and tackling. About three thousand wit-
nessed the contest.

Charlie Pearce scored both of Davidson's
touchdowns, one in the first quarter and the
other in the second. A safety in the efourth
period accounted for Elon’s two points, Brawley
blocking a punt and tackling Pearce, who re-
covered back of his own goal line.

Davidson gained considerably more ground
from. scrimmage,- but outscored Elon in first
downs only by nine to eight.

The Christians reached Davidson's five-yard
line on two occasions, and Rollins, Elon end,
let a pass from Williams slip through his fin-
gers when he was but a few yards from the
goal line. Had he caught it, a touchdown would
have been a certainty. The Wildcats had the
upper hand in the first half, but the Christians
had them in a hole in the third period and
threatened also during the fourth.

There were few flashes of spectacular. form
from either club. Pearce did a fine bit of run-
ning for the winners, and Buddy Gardner did

fine work in his new position ds halfback,
where he has been shifted from the line this
fall. Doe Mathis showed fine form in the
line.

The Christians showed that they were good
at passes on the opening of the game. Having
received and beginning a drive from their 27-
yard line, they ran a quick pass play, Williams
making a long heave to Rollins, who had
sneaked out to the sidelines. Rollins missed this
one by inches.

Elon was forced to punt after line play fail-
ures and Davidson started up field from her
own 45-yard line. Buck Mills started in with
an 8-yard slant off tackle, McQueen completed
the first but fumbled when he was
tickled, Peoftes recovering for the Christians

Again the Christians failed in an effort for
a first down and kicked: Davidson began an-
other Offensive, featured by King’s 12-yard end
run and his 27-yard gain on a quarterback
sheak» that apparently baffled the Christians.
The march was twice summarily halted, how-
ever, when Mills was thrown for 7-yard losses
on separate occasions, Barrier finally being
forced to punt for Davidson from his own 37-
yard line.

lon kicked again and this time the.Davidson
offense clicked better, Mills, King, and McQueen
making a first down off tackle slants. They
fell of a second down, however. The
Christians gained possession of the ballon
their own 23-yard line. A short punt by Cad-
dell, for Elon gave Davidson the ball on the
Christians’ 28-yard line, and after McQueen
had failed on a line smash, Charlie Pearce,
subbing for Mills, cut off tackle, reversed his
field, and dashed the 28 yards across the goal
line standing up. It was the niftiest running
of the afternoon. King made a good placement
kick,

.Pearete and Gardner did the chief carrying
of the ball in the second quarter, and without
giving it up, marched to a touchdown. The
touchdown play was strange. Pearce, unaided
by blocking, found a hole to dash across the
stripe. He, himself, failed in a place kick effort
for the extra point, Rollins breaking it up.

Elon took the play away from the Wildcats
in.the second half and kept the ball through-
out the third quarter. The Williams-Rollins
flat passes were the most effective parts of
the drives, one for an 8-yard gain putting Elon
Davidson’s 5-yard line. Mauldin’s fumble
and *Brown's recovery stopped :this threat.

When Barrier kicked out, Elon launched an-
other attack, but Mills made the lone pass in-
terception for Davidson. Barrier kicked out
again and a third passing attack brought Elon

down

short

on

St.

Pat Crawford Sold
To St. Louis Cards

Was Former Davidson Student

According to an announcement made by the
Louis Cardinals, C. R. “Pat” Crawford
was recently sold to that club by the Colum-
bus, Ohio, team.

Crawford was graduated in 1923 and went
to Gastonia High at Gastonia, N. C., as coach.
From there he went to Guilford College, where
he spent two years as coach.

Though playing semi-professional in the sum-
mers, he never entered the business of ball
playing until signed up with Greenville, S. C.,
of the Sally League. Then he was sold to
Columbus, Ohio, an American Association club.
After a few years with them he was taken over
by the New York Giants, but saw little serv-
ice in an infield. featuted Dy Terry at first and
Lindstrom at third. He was used as a utility
man and = pinch-hitter by McGraw.

Crawford went back to Columbus for a few
more of Last year he was
rated as the best first baseman in the Ameri-
can Association, which is very, very close to
major league ball. Next year he will be with

years seasoning.

(Continued on page 4)

back to Davidson's 6-yard line. One was good
for 21 yards, a beautiful flip from Williams to
Rollins, Elon faltered again in the shadows of
the goal posts and a grounded pass on the
fourth down gave Davidson the. ball.

Davidson rallied in the final’ period and was
in possession of the ball more, showing flashes
of drive. It was in this quarter, however, that
Rollins blocked Pearce’s punt deep in his own
territory, the ball rolling free over the goal
line. Pearce picked it up and clung to it as
he hit a wire fence back of the gol posts.
Hle was bumped pretty badly by the impact Lut
sustained no serious injury.

Coaches Younger and Tilson made frequent
substitutions and many second and third string
men saw action though the regulars were in
when Elon did most of her damage.

Davidson Position Elon
Raker) e22es se. ces Dea eye Rollins
Wihitheld 2222-.----- Peewee eseees Waters
Miithisie: 22s 0s Sai G hos eee eee Lewis
McConnell ~--.---- Géikere2==-2 seeee Morphie
Baten =o-csccsss es RiGee ssa sees Peoples
Widinet 2 occssocne ss RS Soares Caddell
Brown 22: casseeuce RE eo ee cee Brawley
IWingtesi oases ye aOR eeu Roberts
Mil sere ret ee 10S Feameertere eee Mauldin
Garde 2222 see R.H.--- Dofflemeyer (c)
McQueen aipceser es) °Y o} pieatceeteee ae Williams
Score by quarters:
DividsOtt. osceen eee eess // 6 0 0—13
Elon Ugo i pane AEA UI 0 0 2— 2
Scoring summary: Elon, safety; Pearce, sub
for Mills. Davidson, touchdowns, Pearce 2;

point after touchdown, King (placement).
Substitutions: Elon, Reiber, Hughes, Wine-

coff, Dunean; Davidson, Clark,” Baggett,
Creech, Flinn, Cannon, McElrath, Blanton,
West.

Officials: Rawson (Georgia), referee; Kirk-
patrick (N. C. State), umpire; Davis .(David-
head linesman; Hackney (Carolina),
field judge.

son),

We Cater to Davidson
Men

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

PH

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store Nes:
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

S

