THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

Book Review

Aggrey of Africa. By E. W. Smith.

James Emman Kodwo Mensa Otsiwadu
Humamfunsan Kwegyir Aggey—what a
name ...and what a man! Heir of a lineage
that could trace itself back to 1076, proud
of his race, proud of his family, rather
pleased with himself apparently ; devoted to
God and his fellowmen, serving with dis-
tinction on educational commissions, teacher |
in a North Carolina college for many years,
internationally known on three continents,
enthusiastically heard at student conferences,
an orator who could win hostile audiences
and hold them in the palm of his hand, a
sman of whom those who knew him best
thought he was the nearest to sainthood of
anyone they had ever known; let not the
gentle reader be shocked at learning that
this man was quite black and proud of it.
His biography is one of the books that are
not only interesting but important. Impor-
tant, because in its rapidly moving pages one
learns of the new Africa and the new
African; of the possibilities that lie in the
African; of the new spirit of inter-racial co-
operation in the spirit of Christ which (said
Aggrey) is the only way out for the races;
of the new idea in education being worked
out in and of Africa; and most of all, for
the picture of one of the most striking per-
sonalities of the first quarter of the twentieth |
century. Interesting, too, because incidentally
one learns much about Salisbury, N. C., and
the negro college situated there; about.
African customs, about the conflict between
the followers of DuBois, Marcus Garvey and
Aggrey, each of whom represents a different
ideal in negro policies and hopes; interesting
in its many anecdotes. Aggrey was the kind
of man who was dlways having an interesting
time, and readers of his biography will per-
haps be rather sorry they never knew him.
He was the sort of man who at 1 o'clock
a. m. could meet a prize fighter in the street,
stand and talk with him three hours till
the pugilist in tears was converted; on the
other hand he was the kind of man who
could relieve a tense situation by the tale of
the girl who confessed to her father that at
a party she had been kissed. “And how
often?” said the stern father. “I came to}
confess, not to boast,” said she. Well, read |
the book; if it leaves your mind small and |
your heart cold, you are a hopeless case. |

|

The Virgin Birth of Christ. By J. Gresham
Machen, D.D., Litt.D., Professor of New
Testament in Westminster Theological
Seminary, Philadelphia.

The word “dogma” has a forbidding sound
to young people, but it is really nothing very
dreadful. It is simply a convenient name for
a conclusion that has. been drawn by the
church (or in other words by the people
who have given the matter the most careful
thought) on the basis of the evidence avail-
able. The adoption of a dogma is a kind of
ecclesiastical cloture rule; the church declines
to open up the question again unless new
evidence presents itself, just as a court’s de-
cision stands unless new evidence can be of-
fered which might have changed the ver-
dict.

One of the dogma of the Universal Church
(both Catholic and Protestant) is the vir-
ginity of Mary, the mother of Christ. Stu-
dents who are interested in the reasons why
the church believes this, will find the evidence
in a most’ thorough and scholarly way in
Dr. Machen’s book. The author’s method
is not that of mere dogmatic assertion, or of
theological mud-slinging, but of careful, thor-
oughgoing examination of the evidence for
the virgin birth and of the objections that
have been brought against it, and then an
examination of the various theories that at-
tempt to explain away the church’s belief on
some other basis than that of fact.

This book is not recommended for all stu- |,

dents. If you are one of those who divide all |
books into two classes, those you read for |
credit and those you read to kill time, you
need not bother with this one. But if you are
really interested in this, one of the most fa-
mous and influential of Christian beliefs, if
you have a certain amount of leisure and the
disposition to think vigorously, you will find
this a helpful book. For the timid student,
or the one whose time is necessarily lim-
ited, the following chapters are perhaps best
for the beginner: The Integrity of the Lucan
Narrative; The Inherent Credibility of the
Narratives; The Birth Narratives and the
Rest of the New Testament; The Theory of
Pagan Derivation; Conclusion and Conse-
quences. Ha Kenneth J. Foreman.

If it were left to me I would no more pay
an athletic student than I would a chemical
student.—Chairman Mackellar of euwanee
Athletic Committee.

Track Practice to
Begin Next Monday

|Many Letter Men Returning From

Last Year’s Squad

For the .past several weeks the track sea-
son has been in a process of beginning, and
many men have been practicing and taking
“workouts” daily on: the athletic field and
track. For the most part men. have’ been en-
| gaged in unlimbering their muscles and in
preparing themselves for the coming strenu-
ous track season which will begin in earn-
est on next Monday.

Track practice has been hindered some-
what by adverse weather conditions, but the
majority of the men are in comparatively
good condition, and a successful track sea-
son is predicted by those in a position to
know. The track itself is being prepared by
the track managers, and will in a few days
be ready for use.

The following is tentative list from
which men will be chosen to participate in
their respective events:

100-yard dash: McCall, Fleagle, McCallie,
and Kuykendall; 440-yard dash: McGehee,
Tyack, Creech, and McCallie; 880-yard dash:
Neal, Drake, and Cannon; mile: Earle and
Haword; two-mile: Brannon and Murphy ;
high jump: Allen, McKinnon, George, and
Wilson; broad jump: McCall, George, and
McCallie; pole vault: Roane, Stroud, and
Brock; weights: Boyle, Hall, and Wagner ;
high hurdles: George, McCallie, and Little ;
low hurdles: -George, McCallie, and Little;
javelin: McCaJl, Arnold, and McCullough.

The majority of these men are veterans
from the varsity or from last year’s Fresh-
man team, only a comparatively few men
having been lost by graduation last year.

a

Pictures Taken for
“Quipps and Cranks”

Last week the representative of White
Studio, of New -York, was on the campus
to take pictures for the 1931 “Quips and
Cranks.” As customary, various views of
campus scenes and buildings were taken. At
the same time, pictures were made of the
athletic teams and of the R. O. T. C. unit.
This year the columns of New Chambers
were used as a background in taking the
battalion pictures.

The White Studio representative will re-
turn to the campus March 15, to take pictures
of the fraternities, clubs and other campus
organizations.

The business staff of the Annual plans to
offer for sale these campus and group pic-
tures at nominal prices.

COLLEGE CALENDAR

Friday March 6—A_ vocational guidance
program will be given, sponsored by the ‘Y.”
Judge E. A. Currie, of Charlotte, will speak.

Sunday, March 8—‘“Y” vespers at 6:00
p.m. The speaker will be Rev. C. H. Nabors,
of High Point.

Monday, March 9—Dr. E. L. F. Swan will
speak on social hygiene at chapel exercises.
Other lectures will be given on this day and
the following. :

Tuesday, March 10—Literary societies
meet in respective halls at 7:15 p. m.

Wednesday, March 11—Meeting student
Sunday School teachers at 9:00 p. m. in the
“Y” reading room.

People who are much alone become clear-
sighted; they turn the pages of life slowly
and read every word.—Alice Duer Miller.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

Seneca } |

—

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS

The Taylor brothers, of Winston-Salem,
offered as a prize a ten-pound can of Red
Eye tobacco, to the student who composed
the best organized Davidson yell.

Karl Lehman, Christian Endeavor organ-
izer, spoke to the students at the “Y” ves-
per services. He also spoke: to the recently
organized Christian Endeavor Society among
the students.

Golf has taken a strong hold on the ath-
letically inclined, and it is hoped that many
new members will be enrolled. The course,
though not perfect, is good enough to learn

on.
s

Davidson students are to have a share in
the relief work among the prison camps.
The “Y” cabinet pledged a sum for the stu-
dent body, the amount o be raised among |
the students.

DAVIDSON FIVE ,YEARS AGO

The Davidson Glee Club returned to the
Hill yesterday after an extensive tour, last-
ing for eight days, through North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia. The Glee Club
presented six concerts, Spartanburg, Gaines-
ville, Ga., at Brenau; Atlanta at Agnes Scott
College; another concert: at Atlanta ; Green-
ville, S. C., and Charlotte. Approximately
forty members were taken on the trip, in-
cluding the symphony orchestra, the David-
sonians, the jazz orchestra, and the members
of the cast of a comedy skit written by C. F.
Smith.

Winning the first six matches, the David-
son wrestling team swamped the North Car-
olina State squad here last Friday night by
the score of 20-3. State won the last match
on time advantage when Lambe of State de-
feated Maulden of Davidson.

There is much joy in Davidson because
Tex Tilson, assistant football coach,
been signed for another year.

The Citadel basketball team defeated the
Davidson quint here Saturday night in the
final game of the season by the small mar-
gin of two points, 39-37. Both teams were
playing championship ball; and the going was
hot and heavy throughout.

No one has ever succeeded in keeping
nations at war except by lies.—Prof. Salva-
dor de Madariaga.

Modern science is very liable to supersti-
tion and tends to breed superstition in its
devotees.—Prof. John MacMurray.

Our age is more humanist than intelli-
gent.—G. K. Chesterton.

It is only as the audience develops that
the moving picture can rise to artistic
heights—Ella Winter.

Custom is reason fast asleep; it takes the
place of thought in all the popular habits of
life—W. S. Sparrow. :

Leviathan, we realize, is not a perfect
whale, made as a whale and as nothing else,
but the descendant of a land animal doing

its best to swim.—H. G. Wells.

STATIONERY

W. S.

STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS

NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

HENDERSON

MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

|

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia HAS

A Distinguished Faculty

Nineteen Buildings, on a

Fifty Acre Campus

A Moderate Endowment, and

Many Scholarships

For Catalogue and information, address
Rey. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

Ea ea ey Te

=

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

| Baltimore—(IP)—Four women students
!of Johns Hopkins University will accom-
pany Dr. David M. Robinson, archeologist
of the university, on his expedition this sum-

| mer to the site of the ancient city of Olynthus,

destroyed in 348 B. C. by Phillip of Macedon.

Toronto, Ont.(—IP)—The Ontario Rugby
Football Union has gone on record as favor-
ing the adoption of the forward pass, as
used in football in the United States, without
any alterations. The resolution has been sent
to the Canadian Rugby Union.

New Haven, Conn:(—IP)—The favorite
sport of students at Yale-in-China at Hunan,
Changsha, is soccer football, according to
word received by university officials here.

Middletown, Conn.—(I1P)—Gifts of more
than $1,000,000 have been received by Wes-
leyan University in its drive for $3,000,000

|

as a centennial fund to be raised before Octo-
ber. Seven gifts have been for $100,000 each.

Washington—(IP)—Senator Henrik Ship-

| stead, of Minnesota, has introduced a resolu-

has |

tion into Congress to make it clear that the
United States does not join with other na-
tions which signed the Versailles treaty in
making Germany bear the entire blame for
the war. The resolution, which was not re-
ferred to committee, may be brought up at
any time.

Fort Valley, Ga—(IP)—Ken Horado,
Japanese secretary of the League of Nations,
arrived here to visit the Georgia woman
who was his instructor while she was a mis-
sionary in Japan years ago. The woman is
Miss Annie Lyon Howe, who was a mission-
ary in Japan for 40 years.

South Hadley, Mass.—(1IP)—Given a per-
fect background by an old-fashioned New
England snow which: had covered the ground
since before Christmas, students..at Mount
Holyoke College the other day put on a snow
and ice carnival on the campus, including
such events as ski jumping, snow shoe races,
skii tournament, snow shoe tug of war and
snow shoe baseball game.

In the evening the undergraduates took
part in an ice carnival on Lower Lake,
dressed in costume.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(1P)—A hard
claystone pipe, buried in a stratum of glacial
gravel since a date estimated at 1100 A. D.,
has been discovered near South River, about
eight miles from here, by Granville A.
Quackenbush, instructor in geology at
Rutgers University.

Pasadena, Calif—(IP)—That mystery of
wide open celestial spaces, the red shift, is
blocking for the time being mankind’s study
of the universe.

Mere man, including Dr. Albert Einstein,

| would know more about the size, shape and
| destiny of the universe if he could only de-

code the message brought to earth by this
phenomenon.

This is the frank admission of Dr. Ein-
stein and a score of noted scientists who
gathered recently at the Mount Wilson Ob-
servatory Library here to hear Einstein lec-
ture.

The “red shift” is a mysterious rearrange-
ment in spectral lines, noted in the light from
distant nebulae—the fast moving galaxy or
‘“Gsland universes” discovered by Dr. Edwin
P, Hubble with the 100-inch telescope on
Mount Wilson. As now undersotod, the red
shift indicates that these galaxies are moving

~

away from us with such inconceivable speed
and numbers that they are breaking all
boundaries and theories on the structure of
the universe.

“The red shift of distant nebulae has
has changed the old conception of a static
universe. It came like a hammer blow,” said
Dr. Einstein.

Professor Einstein suggested that the red
shift might be interpreted as an effect not,
yet understood, due to some dynamic prop-
erty in space and to light getting “tired”
becoming redder and losing energy as it
travels through the immensity of space.

The curiosity of Einstein is infinite.

It was learned here recently that on his
week-end visit to Santa Barbara he came to
an olive tree. He reached up and picked an
olive.

Quickly he popped.it into his mouth and.
as quickly sputtered it out with:

“Whew, what makes it?”

“You always eating everything you see,”
chided his wife.

In democracies today’s minorities are often
tomSrrow’s majorities —Tardieu.

A cultured mind not only appraises judi-
ciously, but also delights in things true, just,
lovely and honorable.—H. .S. Coffin.

Be discreet physically, mentally, emotion-
ally—Surgeon General Cumming.

President Hoover’s effort to artificially
stem the course of the debacle made me
think of King Canute—Henry W. Morgen-
thau.

Wireless stations in both France and Can-
ada have reported that during the broad-
cast of the Pope’s message by the Vatican
radio station, Soviet radio stations set up a
series of noises on the same wavelength,
and kept them up during the broadcast from
Vatican City.

Forty-seven students at the College of the
City of New York were fined $25 and costs
each for the damage they did when celebrat-
ing after a Sophomore class dinner recently.

Dr. Nevil V. Sidgwick, of Oxford Uni-
versity, is a special lecturer in chemistry at
Cornell University this term.

At Parsons, Kansas, the other day, pupils
of the Fairview rural school tossed aside
textbooks when they saw a fire at the home
of Mrs. Francis Bradfield, and went to her
rescue. They carried the woman, a cripple,
from her room just as the flames reached it.

The Bureau of Standards at’ Washington
is erecting an artificial waterfall with an
imitation torrent channel which is to be used
in answering several engineering problems.

Although because of the barren shores of
Labrador sailors call it “Land of Naked
Rocks,” inland Labrador is a land of much
vegetation.

Sight-seeing excursions for college stu-
dents, once almost unheard of, now are com-
mon adjuncts to college teaching.

The largest rlewspaper advertisement ever
placed by a publishing house recently was
run in 12 dailies across the United States
by the Crowell Publishing Company. It con-
sisted of five consecutive pages.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson Theatre

JOHN

“DON’T BET

Wednesday,

“GENTLEMEN'S FATE”
Thursday, 12th

Friday,
“GIRLS DEMAND EXCITEMENT”

| JOHN \ WAYN E

Saturday, 7th

“BODY AND SOUL”
CHARLES FARRELL

an
LISSA LINDI
Monday and Tues, 9th and 10th

“ONE HEAVENLY NIGHT”
EVELYN LAYE

and

BOLES
y, 11th

ON WOMEN”
13th
