MASQUERS
PRESENT
THREE PLAYS

The Davidso

oe

fe

SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

nian —

MR. BOOTH
SPEAKS FRIDAY
8:00 P. M.

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

No. 8

O. D. K. TAPS EIGHT PROMINENT MEN

DAVIDSON WILDCATS DOWN V. M. I. 7-0

OUTSTANDING SENIORS
GIVEN BIDS AT FALL
TAP DAY ON TUESDAY

Usual Tapping Ceremony Held at
Chapel Tuesday Morning

PRITCHETT GIVES TALK

Roger Enloe Leads Devotional
Exercises

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, at
their annual fall Tap Day exercises yester-
day bid to membership eight prominent
members of the Senior Class. The Seniors
who accepted bids are: E. B. Brannon, P. M.
Conway, C. W. Kuykendall, G. L. Mathis,
A. G. Montgomery, L. S. Raker, and N. G.
Speir, and E. D. Kuykendall.

Omicron Delta Kappa is an honorary lead-
ership fraternity and was founded at Wash-
ington and Lee University in 1914. The or-
ganization now has Circles in many of the
colleges and universities of the country.

At the exercises Tuesday Roger Enloe led
in the devotional exercises. Captain N. G.
Pritchett then gave a short summary of the
history, purposes, and ideals of the frater-
nity. The president of Delta Circle, Jack Mc-
Kinnon, after explaining the tapping cere-
mony, tapped his gavel and in succession the
eight new men were bid by the old mem-
bers of the Circle; after being hit on the
back the new men signified their acceptance
by following the old men to the platform.
The meeting was adjourned by the singing
of “Oh Davidson” by the student body.

E. B. Brannon, of Rome, Ga., is Captain
of the varsity track team and holder of the
college record in the one, two, and three
mile runs, is a member of the Student Coun-
cil, and of the Phi Theta social fraternity.

P. M. Conway, from Henderson, Ky., is
business manager of the Davidsonian, was
captain of the wrestling team in his Junior
year, is on the Varsity football team, and a
member of the “D” Club, is vice-president of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Asso-
ciation, a captain in R. O. T. C., and a mem-
ber of Scabbard and Blade. Conway is a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va., is
Judge of the Court of Control, a member of
the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, on the varsity foot-
ball squad, and a member of the Sigma Phi
Epsilon fraternity.

E. D. Kuykendall, Greensboro, N. C., is
varsity cheer-leader, a varsity debater, Sec-
retary of the Forensic Council, a member of
the Varsity track squad. He is a member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations
Club, and the Kappa Sigma social frater-
nity.

G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall, N. C., is captain
of the varsity basketball team, on the foot-
ball and baseball teams, a member of the
“D” Club, and was a member of the Court
of Control last year.

A. G. Montgomery, Reidsville, N. Gy is

(Continued on page 6)

Captain Seifert Speaks
At Phi Society Meeting

Military Instructor Chooses “Panama”
as His Subject at Recent Meeting
of Society

At its regular meeting on Tuesday night,
October 28th, the Phi Literary Society of-
fered as the main speaker of the evening
Captain Seifert, Assistant Professor of Mil-
itary Science and Tactics, who spoke on
“Panama.” This is the second of a series of
“Travel Talks” instituted by the Phi Society.

Panama, dccording to Captain Seifert;
which was formerly a hot bed of fever, and
disorder, now stands as a model military
sector, in perfect sanitary condition, with
thoroughly systematized machinery and ad-
mirable military discipline. With the aid of

: (Continued on page 6)

Dr: A. S. Johnson Gives
-Clear and Vital Message
Before Large Audience

“For as a Man Thinketh Within Him- |
self, So Is He,” Used as Text

VARSITY QUARTET SINGS

Various Methods of Judging Men Are
Explained and Discussed

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, de-
livered a clear and vital message at the “Y")
Vespers Sunday, November Ist. His talk, re-|
plete with interesting illustrations, was based |
on Proverbs 23:7: “For as he thinketh with- |
in himself, so is he.”

Dr. Johnson began his talk with the il-|
lustration of a Dog Show, where champion |
dogs are judged by weight, hair, carriage |
and other physical attributes. Each dog is
given a grade, and they are judged com- |
pletely by formula. “I fear,” stated Dr.|
Johnson, “that°we know more about judging |
dogs than men.”

“There are all kinds of men: good, bad, ,
intelligent, stupid, and we are thrown with
them every day. They must be judged, but
the question is: ‘How?’” |

“A few summers ago I was in Battle |
Creek, Michigan, when Rudolph Valentino, |
the screen star, died. The great Chicago|
Tribune featured page after page on Val- |
entino, and devoted only half a column to|
the death of Charles W. Eliot, who died the |
same day. Is this wise judgment? Are we to!
grade men as we do dogs?”

Dr. Johnson then went into the defects of |
some of our methods of judging men. The |
first was the yardstick. The audience was |
reminded of the fact that the salable ele- |
ments in a man amount to about 98 cents. |
“Thomas Edison, one of the world’s greatest. |
is now merly a handfull of ashes.” so our |
yardstick fails us. |

The minister then touched other |
methods of judgment. Position, wealth, ap-
pearance, dress, ancestry all fail us when it
comes down to a real key to the man.

“We judge the man by what he his
innermost thoughts. Not the thoughts and{
deeds of a crisis, but in the heart itself do!
we find the real man. Never judge a man by |
superficials. The question is: what do you,

(Continued on page 5)

Y.M.C.A Sends Large

Groups On Missions

Deputations Sent to Lees-McRae, Ba-
rium Springs, and Concord

on

1s,

The Y. M. C. A. sent out three deputations
during the past week-end. The largest of these
was sent to Lees-McRae Junior College at Ban- |
ner Elk, N. C. The other two went to Barium
Springs and Concord.

The Lees-McRae group left Davidson Friday
at 2:30 p, m. Those making the trip were
Roger Enloe, Sam Wiley, Bob Torrence, Hor- |
ace Ervin, Frank Buckner and Fred Dicker- |
son. They stopped on the way at Appalachian
State Teachers’ College at Boone, N. C. Sat-
urday morning Horace Ervin and Fred Dick- |
erson had charge of the chapel service at Lees- |
McRae. As this was Home-Coming Day, there |
were many visitors. The football game with!
Weaver College, with Fred Dickerson acting
as official, was one of the main events. Sam
Wiley gave a talk at church Sunday morning.
Frank Buckner spoke at Arbordale, one of the
mission points, and Bob Torrence was the
speaker at Pigeon Roost, another mission point.
Roger Enloe spoke at “Y” vespers Sunday
night. They returned to Davidson Monday.

The deputation sent to Lees-McRae was of
more than usual interest due to the fact that
the college, which has grown from a mountain
mission to one'of the most complete plants of
its kind in the Southern Appalachian Moun-
tains, has as its président a former Davidson

(Continued on page 5)

| the journal of the Royal Institute.

Yowl to Appear Soon

The initial issue of the Yow! for this
year has gone to press and should be
out by this Saturday. A great many
changes have been made, among them
being the increase in size and change
of cover. Also, it was decided by the
executive committee last year that a
reasonable share of the magazine
should be devoted to literary material;
however, because of a scarcity of con-
tributions, only poetry is being pub-
lished in this first edition.

The staff is as follows: Gaither Jen-
kins, business manager; Reeves Pope,
Duncan McBryde, Woody Caligan,
managing editors; and Gordon Brown,
art editor.

Editor, The Yowl.

Noted Lecturer to
Speak Friday Night

CG Douglas Booth Sent Here by the
Carnegie Peace Endowment

C, Douglas Booth, of London, England, noted
lecturer on’ politics and economic affairs, is to
speak at Davidson on the night of November
6th, next Friday night, at 8 o'clock. He will
he introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the his-
tory department of Davidson. It is probable that
Mr. Booth will speak at the chapel services on
Friday morning, and if this is realized his sub-
ject will be “Disarmament.” He will speak at
Queens-Chicora College, in Charlotte, the night

of the 5th, Thursday. Mr. Booth is sent here
by the Carnegie Peace Endowment and his talk
will be sponsored by the International Relations
Club. Davidson is indeed fortunate in having the
opportunity to hear such an authority speak.
His subject will be “British) Foreign Policy.”

Mr. Booth is a member of the Royal, Insti-

|tute of International Affairs in England, before

which he frequently delivers lectures on world
affairs. He has spent some time studying at

‘the Academy of International Law, at The

Hague.

Among his articles is a paper on “The Polit-
Situation in Southeastern Europe,” pre-
sented before the Institute, and published in
“Ttaly’s
Aegean Possessions,” published in 1928, is also
well known in this country, as well as his
articles written for the American Peace So-
ciety, at Washington, D. C., and published in
“The Advocate of Peace.”

Canada is Mr. Booth’s native country. He
attended school at both St. Andrews College,
Toronto, and Loyola University. During the
war he was major in His Majesty's Forces.
He has devoted seven years’ study to Med-
iterranean and Balkan problems, and has lived
or traveled in Mbrocco, Egypt, Rhodes, Patmos,
Athens, and Belgrade.

ical

The speaker has had wide lecturing experi-
ence, and has done political work for the Na-
tional Liberal Party of Engldnd. He worked in
America for the Liberty Loan and Red Cross
drives while with H. M. Forces during the
war, besides having experience lecturing in both
England and America on international rela-
tions.

Only two years ago he visited more than
fifty International Relations Clubs in Southern
and Middle Western colleges and universities,
under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment.

Some of the subjects for the lectures on his
present tour are: “The Permanent Court of
International Justice,’ “The Austro-Germanic
Rapprochement as a Stabilizing Factor in Mid-
dle Europe,” “Balkan Consolidation—A Neces-
sity to European Peace,” and “Remarks on
Disarmament.” ‘The British Foreign Policy”
was chosen as the tdpic of discussion for his
lecture here because of the interest in British

affairs at the present time. Great Britain has.

just changed her gold standard and the com-
mittee thought it appropriate and timely to have

Dramatic Club Presents
Three One-Act Plays On
Saturday, November 7th

“Sham,” “Bound East for Cardiff,” and
“Suppressed Desires” are to Be
Seen

TWO FARCES, ONE DRAMA

Red and Black Masquers Present
Many New Men in Performance

The Red and Black Masquers have noticed
the great need of some kind of entertainment
to fill the gap between supper and the con-
cluding feature of the Citadel house party. So
they have taken it upon themselves to “work
up” three one-act plays in the short interval
since we witnessed their last performance. It
has always ‘been very difficult for any organ-
ization to keep from the great error of run-
ning over the allotted time, but the Masquers
have chosen these plays especially for this oc-
casion. There will be little changing of scenery,
and very short lapses between the successive
productions.

The first in the series will be “Sham.” It is
the story of a social climber begging a burglar
to steal anything or everything in his home for
the good old attempt “to keep up with the
Joneses.”

The cast is as follows:

Bunplatoc.<ccvscscueseeccusece ss R. - Pope
Glata cree csueecec ioe W. MclIlwinen
Charles ...... _S. Henry

Directot sccsoc--- ooo ccass Johnny Marvin

Stage Manager G. Williams

The next in order is one of Eugene O'Neill's,
“Bound East for Cardiff.” It has been recently
given by the “Little Theatre” of Charlotte, and
is a picture of life in the fo’castle of a tramp
ship among rough, able-bodied seamen. Cast. :

Yank -2_-_--_.___-._...W. Hollingsworth
Dtiscalli22 23 25222 oo 2 A Rachal
COGKVisesiecs eee a eco G. Gullette
OISON? sane cece obec eee) Williams
SCOULY, cee ec cose coe eee eee R. Lessem
SMithVa so eo. seoeaessoeso reese L. Gregg
Gattal ecto s 2 oe G. Moore
SECOnde Mate a-cccenccuceoeeens G. Easton
INORWOGIAT cons ene ee Baavvand

Davis W. Fugate

Director W. Ervin
The last is a screamingly funny satire on the
woman who plunges a little too deep into the
(Continued on page 5)

Dr. McSween to Be
“Y” Vesper Speaker

President of Presbyterian College Will
Also Speak at Morning Services

The Young Men's Christian Association of
Davidson College has been exceedingly fortunate
in securing for its weekly vesper service next
Sunday Dr: John McSween, a forceful speaker,
and one who will bring a message of great
value to the students who take advantage of this
opportunity, The services will be held as usual
in the Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium
6:00 p. m.

Dr. McSween will be in Davidson en route
home from Greensboro, where he is to attend
the Wake Forest-Presbyterian football game,
held at the World War Memorial Stadium
there. Dr. McSween is president of the latter
institution.

The speaker is an. alumnus of Davidson Col-
lege and has not spoken at his Alma Mater
since his graduation in 1908. However, he holds
a reputation at Presbyterian College for being
an extremely interesting speaker. To date his
subject has not been made public.

He will occupy the pulpit of the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church at the morning
service. A large portion of the student body will
be able to hear him then, and will need no
urging to be present at the evening service.
His reputation with students throughout .the
South speaks for itself, and anyone who misses

a discourse on a subject relating to England. his talk will have passed up a great opportunity.

at!

‘CATS DEFEAT V. M. I.
IN CLASSIC FOOTBALL
ENCOUNTER SATURDAY

Wildcats Turn Tables by Outclassing
the “Flying Squadron”

FLINN MAKES TOUCHDOWN

This Is the First Davidson Victory in
Five Years

Showing a complete reversal of form in the
second half, a determined Wildcat eleven gained
a 7-0 verdict over the “Flying Squadron” of
Virginia Military Institute last Saturday on
Richardson Field. Approximately three thou-
sand fans witnessed the struggle between the
ancient rivals.

Completely outplayed in the initial half, the
Presbyterians, led by two tow-headed typhoons,
Buddy Gardner and Bruce Peabody, tore the
Cadet defense to pieces to place the ball on the
V. M. I. 34-yard stripe. From here Billy Flinn,
skirting the right flank, reversed his field and
ran for the lone touchdown of the day. Don
King converted from placement, making the
score Davidson 7, V. M. I. 0.

The Virginians made eleven first downs to
seven for Davidson, but most of their yardage
was amassed in their own territory, The aerial
attacks of both teams were held well in check,
V. M. |. completing four short tosses out of
sixteen attempts, and the ‘Cats making two out
of seven .

On the defensive, Buddy Gardner was all
over the field. Time and again the amplifiers
brought to the stands, “Gardner made the
tackle.” Not satisfied with this, he was abso-
lutely sure death to Cadet passes, intercepting
one of the two that they had intercepted, and
breaking up numerous others. Bruce Peabody
was more than a thorn in the proverbial side
of the Cadets. That lad’s defensive work stood
out at all times. At the safety position, Pea-
body consistently ran punts back for good gains,
and in the final canto broke loose from his
own 10-yard marker on a 65-yard jaunt down
the He intercepted a pass and was
largely responsible for V. M. L.'s failure to
complete more of their passes.

Bill Smith and Lavinder stood out in the
backfield for the red-jerseyed players. Smith
was the most consistent’ ground gainer, and
Center Ed Kostainsek did some splendid de-
work. However, all in all, the Cadet
forward wall was outtricked and outcharged
by the Wildcat line, the work of Whitfield,
Mathis and Johnson being particularly notice-
able.

sidelines.

fensive

To open-the game, Buck Mills returned a V.
M. I. kick-off thirty yards before he was
brought to earth. Pearce then ripped through
right tackle for a first down. Here the Cadets
and Pearce was forced to punt. Bill
Smith of V. M. I. made fifteen yards ona cut-
play. But this the Davidson line
held, and Gill punted.

braced

back atter

Davidson then tore through the line for two

consecutive first downs before having to kick.
(Continued on-page 6)

Honorary Fraternity
Council Has Meeting

On last Friday the Honorary Fraternity
Council held its first meeting of the year. The
organization, in which all the established hon-
orary fraternities are represented, was called
together for the purpose of electing officers.
Those elected were: S. S. Wiley, president; J.
H. McKinnon, vice-president, and William Rule,
secretary and treasurer. Also a committee was
appointed to make out a schedule for the meet-
ings of the honorary fraternities so that con-
flicting times may be avoided. A meeting of the
Council will be held next Friday to complete
this schedule, after which it will be published
in The Davidsonian. Three fraternities were
invited to join the Council. They are Mu Beta
Psi,) musical fraternity; Le Cercle Francais,
French organization, and Sigma Delta Pi, new
Spanish fraternity.
