THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

Foolldll Managenliip

Sought by Twenty Men

List Includes Eleven Freshmen, Six
Sophomores, and Three Juniors

There are at the present time twenty candi-
dates out for manager of the varsity football
team. Eleven of these are Freshmen, six are
Sophomores, and the remaining trio are Juniors.
Of these three Junior managers one will be
chosen as varsity manager for 1932, and one as
Freshman manager. The former will be award-
ed the varsity “D” and the latter a regulation
“DE” with a two and one-half inch “M” sewed
inside. Bob Gorell is manager of the 1931 Wild-
cats, and Jack McKinnon has charge of the
Freshman team.

When a Freshman goes out for varsity man-
ager he is prepared to serve a form of ap-
prenticeship for three years, this period of ap-
prenticeship being regulated by a process of
elimnation. If the Freshman makes a good as-
sistant manager his first year he is retained an-
other year, the number of Sophomore managers
being eliminated to six, however. Of these six
three are chosen as Junior managers. From
this it is easily seen that though many are
called few are chosen,

A complete list of the men out for manager
follows: Juniors, A. H. Grant, Allen Mebane,
and Arthur Ross, Jr.; Sophomores, Ralph
seatty, Frank Holt, B. F. Orqand, W. A.
Kirkland, Barry Caldwell, and John Drake;
Freshmen, Billy Northern, David McLain, Ray-
mond Pollock, Caskie Norvell, Jr., Rigdon
Dees, Jr, Warner DuBose, Bob Everett, Billy
Atwater, J. C. Sherrill, Kirk Hanrahan, and
G. W. Barnes.

College Glee Club
Selects Forty Men

Mr. Sinclair, New Director, and New
Officer Choose Best From
Original Seventy
Some time ago seventy men reported to
Shearer Hall for the Glee Club tryouts. There
they were met by Mr. Sinclair, of Charlotte,
the new director. Mr. Sinclair is head of the
music department of the Charlotte High School,
and an alumnus of the University of North Car-

olina

The officers for this year’s club are as fol-
lows: President, William Rule; vice-president,
George Bailey, and manager, George Parding-
ton. The club plans several short trips late this
fall, probably before the holidays. Plans are
being made for a long tour to be taken in the
early spring.

From the original seventy, the following forty
men have been given tentative places on the club.
In the near future thirty men will be chosen
for permanent positions.

Tenor

Bailey, Marvin, J., Bixler, Mower, Dulin,
Garrette, E., Morris, F. H.

Second Tenor

Powell, Davis, Rule, Flowe, Marvin, D., Gul-
lette, G., Paine, C., Robinson, J. C., Dill, Coble,
Henry, S. C.

Baritone

Gladstone, Hoffman, DuBose, Pardington,
Blair, J. T., Matthews, R. K., Tucker, Schriver,
Little, C.. Womble, McIlwinnen, Byerly, Flinn,
Brown, P. W., MacMillan.

Bass

McKeithan, Caligan, W. W., Williams, E.
G., McLain, D.D., Hollingsworth; D. W., Rice,
J.,° McPhail, L.

Accompanist

Edwin McNair.

THE WAY TO HAPPINESS ~

S. W. Grafflin

1 met a man the other day

Whose sunny manner seemed to say
That he had found the Happy Way.

| asked the secret of his smile,
He gave a thoughtful look the while
And answered somewhat in this style.

Six things have I that spell content,
Six things that mean a life well spent,
That make for real accomplishment :

A Peaceful Mind,
A Grateful Heart,
A Love for all that’s true
A Helpful Hand,

Real Tolerance

And Lots of Things to Do.

I took my way with courage new
With kindlier feelings, broader view,
Trying to think his answer through.

That man had found the secret key
Oi how to live and what to be,
And passed it on to you and me.

Then let us try his simple plan
Of Faith in God and Love to man,
And imitate him if we can.

—American Aristocrat.

HOW THE WILDCAT CAME TO BE OUR MASCOT

“Tn the hills of Carolina, where the redskins used to roam,
Scotch-Irish came and settled, fearing God but never man,

Many tales were told at night-time in the shelters they called home,
Tales recounting deeds of valor common to their fighting clan.

“As the young ‘uns sat and listened while their blood in veins ran cold,
Shrill and clear from out the forest came the wildcat’s curdling scream.
Old ones ceased at once their talking, stories left half-told,

For they, too, now sat staring, like one awakened from a dream.

“Not from fright their quiet, nor from thoughts of lurking gloom,
But from awesome retrospections of the sights that they had seen
When the wildcat, crouched and fearless, like a harbinger of doom,
Ripped through hindrance whatsoever to the vitals and the spleen.

“They had seen this mite of vengeance fight till all his blood had run;
In his battles with his foeman as he rolled upon the ground,

Like the Irish, plied shillelah till his scraps he sure had won,

Like the Scotch, he gave no quarter, fighting fiercer every round.

“Pious folk, these old Scotch-Irish, and they sang from Bible lore,
Sang till hell’s foundations trembled as they ’stablished on a hill
In a town nearby to Charlotte a school with fast-barred door
‘Gainst the devil and his minions, and in truth it stands there still.

“In their naming of this college, in the years of long ago,

They scratched their heads in thought lest they should fail to do it proud,
No mere name like Brown or Yale-would he suitable, they know,

To a crew of old Scotch-Irish, for a hardy he-man’s crowd.

“Then they thought of all their heroes who had faced both gun and sword,
Who in fighting ‘gainst Cornwallis, many worthy deeds had done.

Till they thought of their great general who fell at Cowan’s Ford,

And they honored both the school and him, when they called it Davidson.

“Now, in anticipation of the days: that were to come,
They thought, too, of a mascot that would go with such a name,
Lest the sons of sons unnumbered might possibly be dumb
\s to actions of their forebears who had fought their way to fame.

“So they singled out the wildcat as exemplifying fight;

Just as David slew Goliath with his faith and sling alone,

So should the wildeat be svnonymous with the future men of might
Who should battle for old Davidson and by that name be known.

“Remember well the moral then, whene’ervou meet the foe,
For hard will be the battle whene’er the moral fits,
You're known by all as Wildcats mere, and all through you must know,
Whate’er the odds against him—A WILDCAT NEVER QUITS.”

“None
so good as
LUCKIES”

“I've tried all cigarettes and there's none
so good as LUCKIES. And incidentally I'm
careful in my choice of cigarettes. | have
to be because of my throat. Put me down
as one who always reaches for a LUCKY.
It’s a real delight to find a Cello-
phane wrapper that opens without
an ice pick.”

Jean Harlow first set the screen
ablaze in “Hell’s Angels,” the
great air film, and she almost stole
the show from a fleet of fifty planes.
See her “Goldie,” a Fox film and
Columbia's “Platinum Blonde.”

* * Ke KK OK

Made of the finest tobaccos —
fhe Cream of many Crops—LUCKY
STRIKE alone offers the throat protection
of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process
which includes the use of modern Ultra
Violet Rays —the process that expels
certain harsh, biting irritants naturally
present in every tobacco leaf. These
expelled irritants are not present in
your LUCKY STRIKE. ‘They're out—so they
can't be in!’ No wonder LUCKIES are
always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection — against irritation = against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps
that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra, every Tuesday,

Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B.C. networks. Bi cacy

The American Tobacco Co.

*is Miss Harlow’s
Statement
Paid For?

You may be interested in

knowing that not one cent

was paid to Miss Harlow to
make the above statement.

Miss Harlow has been a

smoker of LUCKY STRIKE

cigarettes for 2 years. We
hope the publicity herewith
given will be as beneficial
to her and to Fox and

Columbia, her producers,

as her endorsement of

LUCKIES is to youand tous.

MOISTURE-PROOF
CELLOPHANE .
Sealed Tight—Ever Right
The Unique Humidor Package
Zip-And it’s open!
See the new notched tab on the top of
the package. Hold down one half
with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple.
Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-
proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Y
Clean, protected, neat, FRESH!— whatcould bemore
modem than LUCKIES’ rroved Humidor pose
=so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB
is—your finger nail protection.

