N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1931

Che Dabidsontan.

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as’ second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
\\p, GRIER MARTIN.:.....---....-------------- Editor-in-Chief
Ji Ai {CANNONG coca iiiecai aes cess esssce Business Manager
‘ EDITORIAL STAFF
E. Managing Editor
D. D. Managing Editor
R. L. McCALL Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS.-. Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG--.---- .-Athletic Editor
3D. G. STEPHENSON......-...22...2-ncncncoess Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN. -Feature Editor
H. W._ ERWIN..----- ----Review Editor
E. C. DWELLE, JR -Associate Editor
W.. S; LEA. icc. -Associate Editor
W.-H MALTHEWS 3 Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

P. M -.--Assistant Business Manager
A, J. E -SAssistant Business Manager
J. 2 STEVENS... ---Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Sub iption Manager
P. F. BROWN ‘
R. W.
A. M. MANSO
A. L, MEBANE .c.0so.csccccc cccccnc succes cons.
W. R. MORROW.
REPORTERS’

A, By WHITERHBRADS cocsn seis ccc suse pccsccesccnsns
Ti Be DARD si ceegceasus Ceaaee P
W. F. MULLISS......-.---------.--------Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F, H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S."GAMBOL

G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE.

J. E. BOYD KE. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK

O, CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, JR. W. T. THOMPSON

J. A. HUNTER

|

APRIL 23, 1931

It’s good to have money and the things it can
buy, but it is also good to be able to look back and
discover you haven't lost something money can’t
buy.—George Horace Lorimer.

PARAGRAPHICS

In congratulating the track team on breaking
the Wake Forest “jinx” last-week, may we add the
hope that the break will last through next year’s
athletic contests with that school.

To the new councilmen—the burden of upholding
Davidson’s student government, and the enforce-
ment of its laws rests on you—success to you.

That was a wonderful exhibition Saturday of a
fighting finish between two Wildcats, Brannon and
Earle, in the two mile run. The spirit of compe-
tition is good, even when it is between team-mates.

Campus statisticians report that it has rained
here for the last nine week-ends. That should be
some kind of record, endurance or otherwise, for

Davidson.

Beginning next Sunday the various classes will
have charge of the “Y” Vesper services, which will
be held out-doors, next to the “Y” rooms. Regard-
less of which class is conducting the program, let’s
everybody support them!

The following managing editors did make-up
work on pages indicated:

McBryde ----.. ------ Front Page
McCallie sooo 2256855 Page Five
Guerrant. 20255 2s Page Six
SW@ge2-ses see soy Sport Page

CHAMBERS BUILDING

Much has been written and more said of
the beauty, usefulness, and, particularly, the
préservation of the Chambers Building, but,
unless one knows Davidson well; he cannot
realize the vast importance of this building
in the life of the school. One has only to
realize that all classes, excepting chemistry
and R. O. T. C., meet in Chambers, and that
all the offices of the administration are
there, to understand how essential the build-
ing is in the operation of the college. ~

It seems almost impossible that Davidson
could have been kept running after the fire
which destroyed Old Chambers, when there
was no administration building, and classes
were held in Shearer, in houses in the town,
and in other inconvenient places. It was only
through the perseverance of Davdson lead-
ers, and the generosity of Davidson men
that disaster was averted. Even after the
construction of the south wing of the new
edifice, it is hard to understand how the
work was so successfully carried on.

Now that we have the whole building
completed, surrounded by grounds that are
being improved every day, amply providing
facilities for the entire system of education,
it is important that we keep in mind at all
times the care and preservation of this vir-
tual center of Davidson activity. This has
been done in an admirable manner in the past
and should be continued during all future
Davidson generations. Only in this way will
we be able to have an administration build-
ing of which all Davdson men cah be proud.

POLICIES

Following the “swan-song” of the former
editor in the preceding issue of The David-
sonian, it seems proper that we should ex-
press some ideas and facts concerning the
policy of the paper for the coming year, and
try to give to the student body an idea of
what it will be like during the time that the
new staff will serve.

No radical changes are to be made in the
make-up of the paper, and those that are
made will not go into effect until the first
part of the next school year. If the paper can
be made as good.as it has been in the last
several years, we will feel that success has
been achieved. This does not mean that it
will be the same in all respects as it has been
in the past, because unless something new
can be included in this staff’s regime, it will
not be up to the standard set by former
editors.

One change which is noticeable is the fact
that there are fivé managing editors in-
stead of four, as it has been customary to
have. Instead of having a news editor the
managing editors will alternate in sending
out assignments, the one doing this being
relieved from other work for that particular
week, This policy was adopted in order to
give this part of the work more recognition.

Another thing which will be attempted
next year is the running of more cuts than
has been the custom. Although this involves
additional expense to the paper, it is thought
that the added attractiveness in appearance
will warrant the greater cost.

In the past the student body has had no
way of knowing the type of work that the
managing editors are doing, and conse-
quently have had no definite knowledge of
how to vote in the election of an editor. This
year a list of the pages that they have made
up will be published on the editorial page,
and also one editorial a week will be writ-
ten by one of the managing editors. In this
way it is hoped that the students may get a
clearer idea of the capabilities of the men
they are to vote on next spring.

Above all the purpose of a newspaper is to
present news that: will be of interest to its
readers. In doing this the co-operation of all
organizations and individuals on the campus
is sought, in the hope that they will let The
Davidsonian, in so far as it is possible, pub-
lish news before it is announced in other
ways. In the furtherance of ths idea, an at-
tempt is to be made to have the paper ap-
pear on Wednesday rather than on Thurs-
day. In this way the articles will have a cer-
tain newness that is impossible when it
comes out on Thursday. The success of this
plan rests on whether or not the printers
will be able to publish the paper by that
time.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Enough praise cannot be given to the De-
partment of Physical Education, headed by
Captain Pritchett, for its work in the physi-
cal development of Davidson students. The
accomplishments in this branch of work in
the last several years are numerous. It is
impossible to tell exactly how much has
been done, because so much has been of an
intangible nature, such as improved bodies,
better health throughout, the year, and
scholastic improvement due to superior
physical qualities.

Besides these there are other more notice-
able changes in the athletic curriculum
of the school. The changing of the old
armory into a gymnasium, the required ex-
ercise for those not taking R. O. T. C., inter-
class and inter-fraternity sports, classes in
physical education, and the remarkable im-
provement of the track team, are some of
the evidences of the wonderful changes that
have taken place in the field of physical edu-
cation. ;

Of course, the primary interest of college
men should: be to secure an education, but
in doing this and aside from it, an absolute
necessity is a healthy body. In filling this
necessity Captain Pritchett and the coaching
staff have been very successful, and deserve
the commendation of the student body and
all those connected with the school.

“No temporary Democratic chairman ever wrote
a Democratic platform. If Mr. Raskob insists upon
such power, the rank and file have but one mes-
sage: ‘Pay your debts and get out.’”—Josephus

Daniels. :

Recent to a Britisher is five years ago. Recent to

; an American is but five minutes—William, G. Fern.

These revolutions of ours are very tiresome. Person-
ally, I cannot take them seriously—Foreign Minister
Alba of Spain (until recently).

Whenever any group, zealous for power, makes loy-
alty to one of its own members the test of citizenship
and the object of any election then sooner or later
corrouption comes.—William Allen White.

What Do You Know
About?

How’s this?
Kicked out?
Revolution?
Nicaragua?
Gum?

On April the 6th the Court of Appeals in the
District of Columbia handed down a decision up-
holding the conviction of Albert B. Fall in 1929 for
accepting a $100,000 bribe from Edward L. Doheny
in the’ infamous Elk Hills oil lease case.

Now how was it possible that the courts found
Doheny innocent in 1930 of giving a bribe which
Fall, only a few months before, was found guilty

- of receiving?

“I want peace, and I’m willing to live and let
live. I’m tired of gang murder and gang shootings.”
—Al Capone.

Eve Garrette Grady and her husband, a United
States mining engineer employed by the Soviet
government, were expelled from Russia recntly
because of the story published by Mrs. Grady en-
titled “See Russia and Die-Laughing.”

“Your article was not considered generally of-
fensive but it contained an offensive reference to
Josef Stalin,” Russian officials told her.

“We are not only more free from attack, but our
people are more free from the haunting fear of
attack than any other people in the world.”"—
President Hoover.

The bloodless revolution which has just taken
place in Spain is a good example of the modern
and more civilized way of changing the govern-
ment of a country.

King Alphonso has taken his downfall as merely
a temporary state of affairs and is expecting to be
recalled to the throne in the near future. As Al-
phonso stated in his “Manifesto” which was pub-
lished at the time of his departure from Spain, “I
am King of all Spaniards and I am myself a Span-
iard. ... 1 do not renounce any of my rights be-
cause they are more than mine... . I am waiting
to learn the real expression of the collective
opinion of my people.”

Don Niceto Zamora the provisional president of
the Republic of Spain seems of an opinion very
different from that of King Alphonso. Zamora
stated, “Finally ... the popular will could at last,
after eight years of dictatorship, manifest itself
with irresistable pressure in favor of a republic.
Alphonso realized at last that he was in material
and moral isolation, so he yielded and quit the
country.”

Leon Trotsky, in his pamphlet entitled “The
Revolution in Spain” which was published several
months before the departure of King Alphonso
from his country, stated, “Even if we should as-
sume for a moment that the revolutionary move-
ment led by the Left Wing of the bourgeoisie leads
to victory, then the fruitlessness of this victory
would in the final analysis become equal to de-
feat. The Spanish Republicans stand completelv
on the basis of the present property relation.”

French patriotism is in no way aggressive. It 1s
dangerous for nobody. It does not tend to elevate
France above other countries.”—M. Le President
Doumergue.

Since the recent earthquake in Nicaragua there
has been a rising tide of opposition to the build-
ing of the proposed canal through that country by
the United States. But according to Sydney B.
Williamson, chief of the civilian engineers on the
board of survey, Nicaragua has had fewer earth-
quakes since the Spanish Conquest than the Pana-
ma region. He added that if the United States
owned two canals—Panama and Nicaragua—there
would be less chance of our control of inter-ocean
traffic being destroyed by a single earthquake.

“If Mr. Rascob is ‘an amateur in politics’ (as he
stated in his letter to the Democratic’ National
Committee) then politics needs more amateurs.”—
Outlook and Independent.

William Wrigley, Jr., the big-gum-man-from-..
the-west, proposes to use all his sales receipts from
gum in the South to buy cotton. He plans to buy
200,000 bales provided the market does not rise
above twelve cents. Wrigley said, “The people of
the South are all right. They just need a little
help.” He makes this “sincere and friendly gesture
to the South” because he once traveled in this
section as a drummer.

“Prohibition has been a huge success in the
United States.”—Sen. Smith W. Brookhart.

“The primary desire and the primary business of
women is to attract men.”—Peggy Hopkins Joyce.

“My objection to divorce is that it has become
too respectable."—G. K. Chesterton. i

“How silly it must be for the’ Democratic party
to desregard the Prohibition issue.”—John J. Ras-
kob.

t ‘

: bles i

H -Saps Paves :

H By D. D. McB. :

+ o
FIGHT-A-PHONE

Presents for your entertainment :

“ROCKINGHAM”

(A sequel tothe stage-hit HAMLET)
Setting :-..---.-------2------ (In a Morris chair)
Senario by ------------------------------ - Chance
Directed by ------------------- Automatic Device
Music by ----.------ Anglo-Saxophone Serenaders
Cast --2.----22--oo oon nana = noone on Iron

Dramatis Personae
Casino o«s0~0e----c--25565--- Count of Monte Carlo
“Mike” Huntry--(’Tis of thee)--Radio Announcer
Duke of Illyria----------------- Brother of Malaria
Ben Wurkin-_------ A.B., 97, University of Athens
Angela Appleblossom------ Co-ed, same University
(Time, Daylight saving, B. C. 196)
ACT I

“Mike’—-Good morning-glory! This performance
comes to you through the courtesy of the Atlas
Axle-grease Company (“We grease all Greece’)
and is sponsored by the French and English De-
partment of the University of Athens. This is
Station XXX, the original home of light wines
and beer. The performance begins! Please stand
by. te
“Duke: And in the face of all this depression,
O Casino, what would’st recommend?

Casino: (Sings softly) “And let the rest of the
world go buy.”

Duke: Ruffian! Would’st make a fool of me?

Casino: No, m’Lord, I never try to interefere
with Nature.

Ben: (Running up) Hail, O Peers of the harbour
of Athens. Sad news!

Duke: Speak:lad. What grievance now mars thy
school-girl complexion?

Ben: Oh, Sir, Homer is very Iliad—near the
point of death.

Casino: That’s Odyssey. And who is Homer?

Ben: My prize pigeon, sir; and a»good one at
that.
that.

Casino: (Censored).

(Fire ALARUM. Excited firemen rush hither
and yon, seeking fire).

Duke: And where, prithee, is all this fire?

Ben: Oh, Sir, ’tis but the co-eds of dear old
Athens.-School is out.

ACT II
(Enter Ben and Angela. Ben is an industrial (?)
student). ‘
Angela: ... but, Ben, have you no end in view?

Ben: Aye, sure, May the 3lst. ©
(Strange interlude)

Angela: Ben! (Silence falls on the surroundings
and breaks down three rose bushes).

Ben: Angela, do you believe in love at first sight?

Angela: No, I have astigmatism.

(Exeunt omnes)
ACT III

(A Turkish bath. Enter Duke and Casino).

Duke: (Paying for bath) Zounds!’They sure
soak you here in this place!

Casino: (Combing his hair). Ah, the plot thick-
ens! The hair restorer works!

Duke: (Changing the subject and giving Casino
the change) How is your son getting along at the
University?

Casino: By my troth he doth remind me of-a
kerosene lamp.

Duke: And how is that?

Casino: He is not over bright; he is often turned

* down, he generally smokes, and he frequently goes

out at night. (Exeunt)
ACT IV

At this point the action becomes so complicated,
and the technique so intricate, that it has been
omitted. Let it suffice to sa ythat, while Casino and
the Duke are out on the plains of Marathon en-
gaged in quoits (they are bootleggers, and have
just delivered 12 quoits to a prominent citizen in
Athens), the papal bull breaks out and, charging
upon them from the rear, tramples on them and
leaves them, mangled, to die a horrible death, in-
troducing the first tragical element of the evening.
At this point it is revealed that the Duke is the
father of Angela, and Casino the father of Ben.

ACT V

(Rose garden at-Angela’s home. Enter Ben and
Angela).

Angela: Is it true, oh Ben, that thy father died
of hard drink?

Ben: Yes, a big block of ice fell on him, so they
say.

Angela: (After a long silence) Why are you so
cold, my love, on a night like this, when we are
together? Do I not please you? A silent tongue
bespeaks’a sorrowful heart. Tell me all, dear ohe.

Ben: (Trembling with emotion) Words fail me,
Angela, in describing the great love I have for
you. But there is something that I have kept a
secret from you. I am disqualified! I cannot go
like this, I—I have, Heaven help’ me, I have—
ATHLETE’S FOOT! My fate is sealed! “Hence
vain deluding joys—” Angela! (Stabs self).

Angela: Oh! My love! My love! This heart can-
not contain the sorrow it knows! Oh that I were
dead!

(At this point the curtain falls on the despair.
ing heroine). (She expires).
