6

THE, DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

Social Fraternities |
Hosts to 130 Girls

Girls From Many States Enjoy Week-
End House Parties

Never in the history of Davidson College has
it gone on record that more than 130 girls came
to Davidson to attend a house party! This be-
came a reality on the week-end of the 17th and
18th of this month. Girls from far and near
flocked to Davidson to join the throng of re-
turning alumni. The program was varied and
entertaining. Friday afternoon there was a
game between the Freshman football team and
Wofford College. In the evening there was an
entertainment in Charlotte. On Saturday morn-
ing the cross-country track meet between the
Davidson and Duke Varsity and Freshman
track teams was staged in front of the stadium.
At the noon hour Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman ad-
dressed the alumni in Chambers Auditorium. In
the afternoon the climax was reached with the
home-coming game, Davidson and Duke play-

ers giving the spectators a thrill throughout/|"

sixty minutes of real football. That evening an-
other entertainment was held in Charlotte and
Sunday morning the girls attended the college
church service. It was altogether an enjoyable
occasion and proved to be the most successful
house party in many years. A‘ list of the girls
up for the week-end party is as follows:

Kappa Alpha—Kathrine Witchen, Hollins;
Nancy Harmon, Salem; Isabel Pollock, Salem;
Elizabeth Morton, Salem; Louise M. Melchor,
Mooresville, N. C.; Mary Marion, Converse;
Anne Hoover, Concord, N. C.; Lib Lewis, Con-
verse; Sally Couch, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth
Warlich, Davenport; Suzanne Lucas, Converse.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Z. Pal, Richmond, Va.;
Jane Howard, Charleston, W. Va.; Georgia
Watson, Tompson, Ga., and the following Char-
lotte girls: Ethel Begg, Kathrine Crowell, Mar-
tha Ware Pitts, Betty Hunter, Grace Sassinne;
Elizabeth Wakefield, Sarah Mott; Mabel
Henry, Concord, N. C.; Sue Webb, Greens-
boro, N. .C.; Violet Poost, Concord, N. C.;|
Liberty Casali, Welch, Va.; Marie Taylor,
Bennettsville, S. C.; Louise Harry, Salisbury,
N. C.; Dolly Blair, Albemarle, N. C.,, and S.
McCall, Bennettsville, S. C.°

Beta Theta Pi—Hazel Eubank, Henderson-
ville, N. C.; Caroline Rowan, Concord, N. C.;
Virginia Sevier, Hendersonville, N. C.; Ellen
White, Concord, N. C.; Dot McClintock, Char-
lotte, N.eC.; Ida Patterson, Concord, N. C.:
Elizabeth Henritze, Welch, W. Va.; Mary Mc-
Kay, Concord, N. C.; Carolina Iver, Concord,
N. C.; Mary Lois Allen, N. C. C. W.; Barbara
Witherspoon, Greensboro, N. C.; Tex Horton,
Winter Haven, Fla.; Edna Love, Shelby, N.
C.; Miss D. Baker, Charlotte, N. C. Those from
Rock Hill were: Effie Murphy, Mary Ware,

sun—let’s go! To the land of mosques and minarets—

so different from our skyscrapers, stacks and steeples.
Let’s see this strange, strange country. Let’s see the
land where the tobacco* grows
slender stalks—to be tenderly
picked, leaf by leaf, hung in long fragrart strings,
shelter-dried and blanket-cured. Precious stuff!

Let’s taste that delicate aromatic flavor—that
subtle difference that makes a cigarette!

Where Turkish tobacco grows

in small leaves on

XANTHI..CAVALLA .. SMYRNA

In every important tobacco-growing cen-
Yer Chesterfield hasits own tobacco buyers

.. SAMSOUN .. famous tobaccos!

*Turkish tobacco is to cigarettes what
seasoning is to food—the''spice,” the“sauce”’
—or what rich, sweet cream is to coffee!

You can faste the Turkish in Chesterfield

the smooth, “spicy” Chesterfield blend.
This is just one more reason for Chester-
field’s better taste. Tobaccos from far and near,

—there’s enough of it, that’s why. Chester-
field has not been stingy with this impor-
tant addition to good taste and aroma; four
famous kinds of Turkish leaf—Xanthi,
Cavalla, Samsoun and Smyrna—go into

Harriet Vaughn, Elizabeth Nicholson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Elizabeth Price, Sa- |
lem; Louise Marshall, Salem; Lucy Follin,
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Brantley Nichols, Char- |
lotte, N. C.; Julia Thompson, Richmond, Va.; |
Virginia Staples, Athens, Ga.; La Verne Hud-|
son, High Point, N. C.; Betty Taylor, Hollins, |
Va.; Betsy Armfield, Converse. |

Phi Gamma Delta—Dit Jenkens, Charlotte, |
N. C.; Grace Jepson, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred |
Beasley, Charlotte, N, C.; Florence Holmes, |
Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy Sellars, Burlington, |
N. C.; Elizabeth Sellars, Burlington, N. C.;
Carol Dean, Converse; Sally H. Hughes, Knox-
ville, Tenn.; Elizabeth Fouts, Cleveland, Tenn. ;
Ellen Campbell, Cleveland, Tenn.; Martha
Mack, Waynesville, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta—Thelma Launwery, Con-
cord, N. C.; Janie Secrest, Monroe, N. CG;
Elizabeth Potts, Davidson, N. C.; Mary Car-
pening, Rockingham, N. C.; Francis O’Brien,
Rockingham, N. C.; Irene Todd, Lawrence, S
C.; Elizabeth Glasgow, Nashville, Tenn.; Pankie

Allen, Charlotte, N. C.; Celia Wadsworth,
Charlotte, N. C. :

Pi Kappa Alpha—Elizabeth Harris, Welch,
W. Va.; Alice Grubbs, Frances Williams and
Colum Schenck, Greensboro, N. C.; Elizabeth
Thompson, Davidson, N. C.; Mable Wilky
Geraldine Harris, Charlotte, N. C; Mary
Bailey, Gainesville, Ga.; Eileen Brown, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Mary Brown Prince, Converse;
Sis Muldrowe, Elizabeth Nolan, Isabel Sims,
Converse; Neal Whitworth, Albemarle, N. C.;
Lambie Wilkerson, Winston-Salem, N. C.:
Anna Lovin, Red Springs, N. C.; Dorothy Eth-
eridge, Winston-Salem, N, C.; Mary Alice
Darby, Florence, S. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Virginia Combs, At-
lanta, Ga.; Berdette Scales, Monroe; Wil-
helmina Wolford, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Wil-
son, Staunton, Va.; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte,
N. .C.; Sibina Sleeper, Fort Moultrie, S. C.;
Helen. VonDrehl, High Point, N. €.; Isabel
Scott, Davidson, N. C.; Mary Virginia C x,
Duke View; Jessie McGriffin, Staunton, V. BS
Adelaide Shott, Betty Wicker, Lucille Camp-
bell, Grace Lawing, Dorothy Hand and Lucille
Worley, Charlotte, N. C.; Kitty Cunningham,
Decatur, Ga.; Casey Ingram, High Point;
Elizabeth Kenry, Fort Valley, Ga.

Kappa Sigma—Elizabeth Rollins, Timmons-
ville, S. C.; Calesta°Riegel, Dayton, Ohio; Sue

Horner, Durham, N. C.; Louise Hardin,

é

© 1931, Liccetr & MYERS ToBACcco Co,

rn

( Ate
a

(/ piloted

the best of their several kinds—and the right
kinds. And pure, tasteless cigarette paper,
the purest made. The many requisites of a

milder, better smoke, complete!

That’s why they’re GOOD—they've got

to be and they are.

(

Greensboro, N. C.; Tine Thompson, Dunn, N.

*|1C.; Nancy Moodie, Gastonia, N..C.; Elizabeth

Blizzard, Dillon, S. C.; Sarah Erkman, Hen-
dersonville, N. C.; Lillian Birch Ellison, Wash-
ington, N. C.; Nancy Comper, Atlanta, Ga.;
Lucy Goss, Margaret Cunningham and Mar-
garet Bennet, Decatur, Ga.; Bebe Hyde, Farm-
ville, Va.; Boo Bitzer, Spartanburg, S. C.;
Dorothy Powell, Gastonia, N. C.; Adele Ford,
Bennettsville, S. C.; Frances Marshall, Rock
Hill, S. C.; Margaret Allison, Knoxville, ‘Tenn. ;
Sally Kate Alderman, Kings Mountain, N. C.;
Bertha Burch, Elizabeth Boykin and Anna Pres-
ton, Charlotte, N. C.

Pi Kappa Phi—Anne Bolton, Union, S. C.;
Sarah Floyd, Spartanburg, S. C.; Sue Corbin,
Fremont, N. C.; Lucy Floyd, Oxford, N. C.;
Margaret Melchor arid Sarah Brawley, Moores-
ville, N. C.; Adelaide Foil, Concord, N. C;
Anne Ware, Darlington, S. C.; Sarah Fletcher,
Hartsville, S. C.; Janet Bern, Americus, Ga.;
Emily Cooper, Holly Springs, Miss.; Lois
Ayres, Nichols, S. C.; Julia C. Orr, Anderson,
S. C.; Eleanor Spratt, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Julia
Gold Clark, High Point, N. C.; Margaret Gil-
liam, Almedia McGinnis, Estelle Hall, Evelyn
Wagner and Rosalie Rogers, Charlotte, N. C.;
Mary Elizabeth Meeks, Rocky Mount, N. C.;
Peggy Foreman, ‘Charlotte, N. C.; Polly
Moore and Jennie Harrison, Greensboro, N. C.;
Sophie Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Martha
Johnston and Scotty Johnston, Charlotte, N.
C., and Anna Mack Redfern, Monroe, N. C.

PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS

(Continued from pgae 1)
editorial staff of Quips and Cranks, and an as-
sistant in Bible.

McLean is president of the Ministerial Band,
assistant in Latin, and a member of the Eu-
menean Literary Society. —

Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, Golden Quill, Delta Pi Kappa,
Le Cercle Francais, Omega Phi Alpha, Minis-
terial Band, and was secretary and treasurer of
Junior class, ’29, ’°30. He was also president of
Reporters’ Club, Beaver Club and manager of
the Rifle Team.

McConnell is a member of Kappa Alpha so-
cial fraternity, a member of the football squad,
Le Cercle Francais, is assistant in mathematics,
and is class historian and a captain in R. O.
T. C. He was also a member of the Beaver
Club.

Welch is assistant,in French, is a member
of Le Cercle Francais, and has been on the Hon-
or Roll.

Hand is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Le
Cercle Francais, is French assistant, and was
on the Honor Roll last year.

Bettis is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity, and belongs to the Radio Club,
Spanish Club, Rifle Team, varsity track squad,
and the Tennessee Club.

Harrison made the Honor Roll and is a: mem-

ber of the International Relations Club. He took
part in intramural boxing and is an R. O. T. C.
lieutenant.

WILDCATS WILL MEET ERSKINE

(Continued from page 3)

While the Davidosn-Erskine encounter is not
aheadliner_in. North Carolina, it will be oné
of the best games of the season. The Seceders,
with a considerably smaller student body than
Davidson, turn out just as scrappy a bunch of
players as can be found anywhere. Erskine will
be fighting for an upset. Davidson is generally
predicted as winner, but the Seceders are well
versed in the art of upsetting, just like the
Widlcats are. Erskine will be the under-dog on
Saturday, but a very ferocious one, and the
Cats will have to fight not only to conquer
but to hold their own.

Y VESPERS ADDRESS

(Continued from page 1)
and paid several days’ lodging for him in ad-
vance; this was certainly embracing an oppor-
tunity to serve someone. :

The address was closed with a fitting quota-
tion from Kipling to “Tommy,” reminding him
that no matter where he went or what he did
that since he had enlisted in the service of the
king, he was,.branded as a service man.

The service was led by Paul Brown, who
also read the Scripture lesson taken from
Matt. 20:20-28. Bill Rule led the singing and
a special music selection was rendered by Hor-
ace Erwin on the violin. Bill Matthews and
Jerome Clark offered prayers after the. reading
of the Scripture.

WILDKITTENS CROSS GOAL

(Continued from page 3)

from the goal line. Mackorell and Wingfield
then had no trouble in adding six more points
to the score,

For the third time Mackorelljand Morris
completed another long pass to place the ball
on the two-yard line. Smathers broke up the
Wofford defense to carry the ball over. A pass
and Hutchins. Extra points: Davidson, Mack-
the final touchdown.

Line-up and summary :

Wofford (6) Pos. Davidson (44)
Conner LE. Morgan
Worton LI. Siewers
Jones LG. Potter
Parnell Cen‘er Lee
Kemp RS. Brewer
McCreavy RT. Hand
Blakely R.E. Morris
Gault Q.B. Mackorell
Mims L.A. Smathers
Williams R.H. Wingfield
Shilfeto F.B. Caton
Score by periods:
Wofford Fresh ~----__- 0 0 0 6— 6
Davidson Fresh ~__--- 7 7 +18 12—44

Scoring touchdowns: Wofford, Gault; David-
son, Mackorell.-2, Morris 2, Caton, Smathers,
and Hucthins. Extra points: Davidson, Mack-
orell (drop-kick), and Hutchins (line buck).
