NOTED ORGANIST
TO PLAY HERE
IN NEAR FUTURE

he Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DUKE vs. DAVIDSON
WRESTLING
SATURDAY NIGHT

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1931

No. 18

CATS TO MEETCAROLINA

TONIGHT ATCHAPEL HILL
ANDPLAY STATE FRIDAY

Two Games Expected to be Decid-
ing in the “Big Five Title Race”

Davidson's quintet opens a state tour to-
night in Chapel. Hill against a Big Five
team when they will attempt to halt the
Tar Heels’ winning streak. Again tomor-
row night the Wildcats journey over to Ra-
leigh to meet the Red Terrors in a return
engagement. At the end of these two battles
the Big Five standing ought to be unraveled.
At the present time State and Davidson are
tied for the lead, Duke having been ousted
last week. Four Big Five members are
closely bunched with Wake Forest at the
bottom with no wins.

The Tar Heels will entertain the Wild-
cats in Chapel Hill this time, making the
margin of victory in their favor. Davidson
nosed Carolina out by only one point *in
their last meeting in Charlotte, but the
Tar Heelers have been going strong lately
and will be a different team to beat this
time. Carolina is ranking high in Southern
Conference rating, winning five and losing
two, ranking just below Maryland in the
list.

The Tar Heels’ last victory was at the
expense of Virginia to the tune of 28-24, a
narrow margin. Marpet was up to old tricks
and Alexander, who was out when they
played Davidson, has returned to good form.
With only one minute to go the score was
knotted, when Hines, lanky forward, goaled
one, putting the Tar Heels in the lead.
Then Moore slipped in a couple of foul shots
to give his team a four-point margin of vic-
tory.

The next night Davidson moves over to
Raleigh to battle State in a crucial game,
for if the Wildcats down Carolina, this
game will in all likelihood be a champion-
ship game, although Duke must be counted
in, when championships are being talked
about. State has had their ups and downs
this year, starting off fast, then falling into
a slump, and now they seem to be rising
and bid fair to give trouble to any team.
They started their rise by defeating Duke
last Saturday in another close game, 26-23.
The Red Terrors played such a congistently
good brand of basketball that after over-
hauling the lead Duke gained at the begin-
ning of the battle, they were headed again.
Johnson went on a scoring spree to bag 11
points».while his teammates were playing
excellent floor games,

When the Wildcats return from this trip
they will either be at the lead of the Big
Five or permanently out of the race. Both
games will be harder than any Davidson
has played this winter. The Wildcats have
been in somewhat of a slump lately, but
are due to come out of it now, as every
team goes through a bad period during the
seasqn.

F. L. Jackson is on
College Commission

Reappointed for Third Time as
Member of Association of
American Colleges

It has been learned here that F. L. Jack-
son, treasurer of the college, has been re-
appointed for the third consecutive time as
a member of the commission on permanent
and trust funds of the Association of Amer-
ican Colleges. This reappointment was made
at the annual meeting of the association
held in January.

It is not known who is on the committee
except that Dr. A. W. Anthony of New
York has been appointed as chairman.

At the meeting the commission’s annual
report discussed present financial conditions,
recent cautions in the use of annuity agree-
ments, contingent endowment funds, the
united investment policy, and approved prin-
ciples emerging. bs

At this time Mr. Jackson is also serv-
ing as vice-president of the national exec-

(Continued on page 6)
4

Board of Trustees.

To Meet Feb. 18th

On next Wednesday morning, February
18, at 10 o'clock, the Board of Trustees ot
Davidson College will meet in Davidson to
settle a few matters that will come before
them at that time. Preceding this, on Fri-
day, February 13, the Executive Commit-
tee of the Board of Trustees will meet in
Charlotte at 10:30 in the morning. These
meetings Were announced by Dr. Walter L.

Lingle, president of Davidson and also a.

member of the Board of Trustees.

During the last few months there have
been some replacements in the personnel of

the Board of Trustees. Rev. R. S. Arrowood

of.Concord replaced Rey. E, A. Woods of |

Salisbury in the North Carolina Synod; Mr.
Robert J. Kingler of Safety Harbor, Fla.,
took the place of Rev. W. T. Mann of Bar-
tow, Fla., the Florida Synod; in the
Alumni Association, Mr. W. S. . Royster
of Norfolk, Va., was given the position of a
trustee, succeeding Mr. Watson Rankin of
Charlotte, N. ©. Mr. C. R. Wilcox of Rome,
Ga., was made a member of the Board for
1931 for the Alumni Association. Mr. H.
W. McKay of Charlotte, N. C, who was
formerly a trustee of the Alumni Associa-
tion, has been moved to the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board. The two trustees from
the Synod of Georgia made their exit with
the close of the year 1930. They were Prof.
A. G. Miller of Macon, and Rev. N. L. An-
derson of Savannah, both of the Savannah

in

Presbytery.

Recently there have been two deaths in
the membership of the Board, Mr. Lee Rob-
inson of Gastonia, and Mr. Thomas G. Hy-
man, 93, of New Bern, N. C., both of the
Synod of North Carolina,

Dr. W. H. Frazer Speaks
At “Y” Vesper Services

Misses Brice and McQueen, Stu-
dents of Queens-Chicora College
Render Musical Selections

Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of ‘Queens-
Chicora College, was the speaker at the
last Sunday evening. Miss
Brice sang a beautiful solo and Miss Mc-
Queen accompanied her at the piano. Both
of these young ladies attend Queens-Chicora

vesper service

College and have appeared on vesper pro-
grams before. .

James A. Jones was in charge of the song |

and M. W.,

and D. M. Bernard
Norfleet made short prayers. H. S. Coving-
ton read’ from the third chapter of Exodus,
which tells that Moses, while in Midian,
was astonished one day on seeing a bush

service,

burning, and yet remaining unconsumed; and
when he turned aside to look more closely
at the queer sight, he received a call from
Jehovah. ON

Dr: Frazer, in his talk taken from. this
passage, told something of the life of this
inspired man. He mentioned the wonderful
opportunity Moses had to come under the
influence of the Holy Spirit amid the solemn
grandeur of the wilderness and the time he
had in its deep solitude for thoughtful medi-
tation. He continued with a description of
the loneliness of Moses’ life and contrasted
it with the grandeur and pomp of his court
life. At this point he quoted the phrase, “Of
all sad words of tongue or pen the saddest
are these it might have been.”

Dr. Frazer related the incident in which
Moses killed an Egyptian because he saw
him strike an Israelite. He pictured the sub-
sequent flight from Egypt into Midian,
where Moses tended Jethro’s flocks. He ex-
plained that just as there was a trail for
Moses in the desert, there was a path
through the desert for everyone, if they
looked diligently enough for it.

Dr. Frazer brought out the point that had

(Continued on page 5)

Prominent Organist

Seibert Noted Organist
To Give Recital Feb. 18

Has Played Monthly Recitals Over
N. B C. Network and Appears on
Prominent Programs

Next Wednesday night, February 18, at
8:15, Davidson College and the surround:
ing towns will have the extreme pleasure
of hearing Henry F. Seibert, American con-
cert organist of New York City, and organ-
ist of the Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in
New York, who will present a recital for
the benefit of the students.

Mr. Seibert is a very well known organ-
ist, having played over the National Broad-
casting Company network, has played month-
ly recitals over WEAF in New York, and
he broadcast from the Wanamaker's
Auditorium He came to New
York from Reading, Pa., cight years ago.

also

last season.

One day while playing an impromptu re-
cital at the Cathedral of St. John the Di-
vine, his attracted the attention of
a man of influence in organ circles. This

work

audition was the beginning of many notable
When the new Town Hall
organ was opened, Mr. Seibert was one of
a group of organists to play. Later Mr.
Seibert engaged official organist
of the Town Hall and he still retains that
| position. His position requires him to play
‘a recital every Friday night. He appears on
programs with William Lyon Phelps, Hon.
Frank Kellogg, Ambassador Houghton,
Jane Addams, Helen Keller, Princess Kro-
potkin, and other noted lecturers.

Mr. Seibert played 50 organ recitals last
This phénomenal success due
chiefly to his ability to play a program
that will please both the layman and_ the
musician. So many organ recital. programs
are splendid technical accomplishments, but
they never “reach the hearts” of the aver-

engagements,

was as

season. is

age audience. Mr. Seibert contends that pop-
ular classical music, played in an artistic
and finished manner, will win enthusiasts
for the organ—that with the advent of the
modern organ, with all its new tones and ac-
cessories, comes also a new era of organ
playing. The organ not only serves the pur-
pose of being an ecclesiastical instrument
but has become a concert instrument as well.

Mr. Seibert toured through Italy four
(Continued on page 6)
Music Recitals

The Fine Arts Department an-

nounces the first of a series of af
ternoon recitals, free to the public,
Chambers Auditorium,
Thursday afternoon, at 5:00 o’clock.
Mr. William Wall Whiddit, organ-
ist of St. Peter’s Church, Charlotte,
and Mr. Eugene Craft, pianist, will
| give a joint recital. The program
! will include several selections with

of

in next

| .and

the combination organ
t

| piano.

|

OUR DEMOCRACY ANDITS
FUTURE IS SUBJECT OF

DR.WERTENBAKER’S TALK

Debating Try-Outs

On Tuesday night, February 3, the var-
sity debate tryouts were held, there being
elected three varsity two men
and three for each
team. The varsity debaters chosen are @s
follows: J. A. Jones, of Laurinburg, N. C.;
W. Rule, of Knoxville, Tenn.; P.
of Thomson, Ga.; J. C. Matthers, of Lum-
berton, N. C.; R. D. Powell, of Lawrence
ville, Ga., and G, P. Pardington, of Decatur,

teams, of

each, alternates, one

S. Knox,

Ga. The alternate debaters are: A. B. Me-
Clure, of Rabun Gaj, Ga.; G. J. Jenkins,
of Winston-Salem, N. C., and J. Hl. Me-

Kinnon, of Jacksonville, Fla.

Judges of the debate tryouts were Prof.
*. J. Erwin, Prof. P. H. Gwynn, and Prof.
J. PP. Williams, and the basis of judgment
Was not only oratorical ability, but evidence
of preparation, of knowledge of the
ject, of ease on the rostrum, and rebuttal

sub-

possibilities. About sixteen men tried ont
for the team, representing all the upper
classes.

debaters are
members of the Davidson Forensic Council.
They are J. A. Jones, president of the Coun
cil; William Rule, IIT, of the
Council, and P. S.. Knox, treasurer.

Three of the named varsity
secretary

Complete plans have not been announced
as yet for the trips that the debating teams
will take this year. However, two trips, at
least, will be made, meeting the leading col
lege debaters of the South, in such schools
as Alabama, Florida, and Emory universi-
ties.

Davidson Wrestlers To
Meet Duke on Saturday

Meet to be Held in Davidson Gym,
Being the Fourth Match of
Year

On Saturday night at 8 o'clock, the Da
vidson Wildcat wrestling will
Duke University in the Davidson College
Alumni Gymnasium. This will be the fourth
wrestling match the ‘Cat grapplers have en-
gaged in during the past three weeks, all of
which have with of the
Southern Conference of teams,

team mect

members

Athletic

been

Nothing at all is known as to the power
of the? Duke whom
Doc Unger has had no contact since he be-

wrestlers, with Coach
came wrestling coach at Davidson, but fans
are confident of witnessing a scrappy match
Duke and- Davidson athletic

whenever any

teams mect.

Of the three matches Davidson has fought,
the grapplers have won over State College
and lost to Washington and V.
M. I. The teams they have lost to repre
sent two of the strongest wrestling teams in
the Southern Conference. The ‘Cats go up
against Duke with many injuries as a result
of their matches two days apart in Virginia
last week, but it is expected that all injuries
will for the most part be cured by next
Saturday. As a result of his bout in the
Washington and Lee meet, Boyle was forced

and Lee

to default his match with V.. M. 1., while
Vick and Preston sustained severe mat
burns.

It is ° probable that French Cowan will
be in shape to wrestle in the 118/or 125-
pound weight by Saturday, and it is also
expected that Thad Brock will be able to
wrestle in the 155-pound class. Both of these
men were valuable men on the wrestling
team last year, and it is expected that they
will make valuable additions to this year’s
team if able to compete.

Democracy on Trial in America and
Education is Necessary for its
Success

“Our watchword in preserving the de-
mocracy of the United States must be edu-
cation,” said Dr. J. H. Wertenbaker, pro-
fessor of history in Priff€eton
as he spoke to the students and faculty of

University,

Davidson College. “After all has been said,
government by the people is. still on trial
in this country, and education in the art of
government, education in history, education

‘as to the value of individual rights and the

necessity of upholding them will do much
to preserve our democracy, Of vital impor-
tance is the role of the South in this strug-
gle to preserve democracy.”

The Princeton professor opened his ad-
briefly the
American democracy, of its struggles in its

dress by outlining history of

shaping, of the arguments as to its final form
Washington,
and the other features of our nation, reach-

hetween Jefferson, Hamilton,
ing its highest point in the eleetion of An
drew Jaekson, “which decreed that political
leaders should not only be elected by the pe
ple, but should be of the people.”

Three powerful groups or influences have
always been tearing at democracy, and are
doing so today, pointed out the speaker, The
first of these he characterized’ as “powerful
self-interested groups. This threat came for
a while from the theocratic-aristocratic lead
old New Again, it
from the old aristocratic slave-holders of the
South. Both of these have been overthgmayn,
and from the ruins of the latter, a .

richer, more enlightened, more progressive

ers. of Eneland, came

South arose.”

“The next threat came as a result of the
vast expansion of industrialism in the
North,” continued Dr. Wertenbaker. “Under
the trust system, once more a small group
had arisen to grasp at power and influence
in government inconsistent with democracy.
Sut Sherman, by his anti-trust law, and
Wilson and) Roosevelt, but their new free-
dom and new nationalism, reconciled big
business with democracy.

“Another threat outlined by the Princeton
professor come from the radical groups—
the the the Socialists,
and those classes which would turn every-

Reds, Communists,
thing over to the government
Of all ills. At their
small as to make the danger remote.
(Continued on page 5)

as a panacea

1s so

But

present number

Fresh Vote Not To.
‘Select a President

Class Organizaton Will Take Place
Later on in Spring

Members of the Freshman class at David-
the
leaders on the campus, and have decided to

son College have followed advice of

refrain from an organization of the class
and election of a president as Freshmen. In
March they will go through the formal or-
ganization and select one of their number,
lead the the re-

mainder of their first year and the Sopho-

whe will class through

more session,
All the

class are unanimous in their opinion that se-

former presidents of Freshman
lections as class president ‘militates against
the one chosen throughout the rest of his col-
legiate career. As one expressed it, “the pres-
ident becomes unpopular with his class be-
cause he cannot heed all of their requests ;
he also becomes unpopular with the student
body because of the requests he makes as a
Freshman president.”

Such action on the part of the first year
class at Davidson this session will call for
an amendment to the constitution that guides
the student body if the upper classes are in
agreement with the decision of the Fresh-
men. It is thought by those in touch with
student affairs that this will be written into
the constitution before he year is over, and
become a permanent custom.
