4 ‘ .
‘ Che Davidsonian =
Sere CHATTANOOGA
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII :

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 19, 1931

No. 19

DR. H. B. ARBUCKLE
MAKES INSPIRING AND
HELPFULTALK SUNDAY

Encourages Students to Live Lives
of Helpful Christian Service as
Examples for Others

ESTABLISHED THE “yY”

Roger, Enloe Leads Singing, Mc-
Clure and McLean Lead
Devotionals

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle; Chambers Professor
of Chemistry, was-the speaker at the “Y”
vesper service last Sunday evening. Dr. Ar-
buckle has been a professor here since 1912,
and in that time he has become one of the
best loved and most admired men on the

faculty. He gave all ‘those present a real
message.

Roger Enloe was in charge of the song
service, and also read the Scripture, verses
1-6 of the third chapter of Second Corin-
thians. Albert McClure and Thomas Mc-
Lean led in prayer, and then Dr. Arbuckle
was introduced by Roger Enloe.

Dr. Arbuckle talked on servite. He-spoke
particularly on service rendered by deliver-
ing Christ’s messages which are on our
hearts. His key verses were: “Ye are our
epistle, written in our hearts, known and
read of all men; being made manifest that
ye are an epistle of Christ, ministered by us,
written not with ink, but with the Spirit of
the living God; not in tables of stone, but
in tables that are hearts of flesh”; and “But
our sufficiency is from God; who also made
us sufficient as ministers of a new cove-
nant.”

He first told us of the letters which we
‘ send and receive. He told us of the sttong
attraction letters have on people. We all go
* to the postoffice each day, although many
times we do not get any mail. Then he told
us of the effect that letters have upon us.
He continued by telling us that the follow-
ing things are essential for a letter: the
paper, the ink, the pen, the subject, the au-
thor, and the person.

Now Dr. Arbuckle talked of the letters

which we were to consider with him for a
few minutes. Jesus is the author, the Love
and Grace of the Son of Man is the sub-
ject, telling a story of the salvation of the
human soul.:The ink is the-everlasting pow-

er of the Holy Spirit, and the material or’

which it is written is the warm and tender
(Continued on page 5)

Members of Board
Meet in Charlotte

Four New Members Will Meet
With Board Next Wednesday

The Executive Committee of the Board
of Trustees of Davidson College met in
Charlotte on February 13 to transact pre-
liminary business before the semi-annual
meeting of the governing body here next
Wednesday. Dr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte,
chairman of the trustees and head of the
Executive Committee, presided. Reports from
President Walter L. Lingle, and Frank L.
Jackson, treasurer, were made. Only routine
matters were discussed.

Members of the committee present were:
R. A. Dunn, chairman; Sam A. Robinson
of Gastonia, Rev. Byron Clark of Salisbury,
J. A. Cannon of Concord, H. Smith Rich-
ardson of New York, H. N. Pharr and Dr.
Hamilton McKay of Charlotte. Associated
with Dr. Dunn on ‘the Executive Commit-
tee are also Geo. W. Hall, Hickory; S. Clay
Williams, Winston-Salem; W. J. Roddey,
Rock Hill, S. C. :

When the board meets at Davidson
Wednesday there will be four new members
of that body, Rev. R. S. Arrowood, Con-
cord; R. J. Knight, Safety’ Harbor, Fla.;
W. S. Royster, Norfolk, Va., and Dr. R. C.
Wilcox, Rome, Ga. The first two were
elected by their respective presbyteries, while
the latter two were chosen by the General
Alumni ‘Association. All are graduates of
. Davidson. Two members of the board have
died since the last meeting of the board.

Second “Yowl’’ Issue
To Appear in March

For the benefit of those few who may
remember that Davidson has a magazine,
the staff wishes to announce that the Feb-
ruary issue of the “Yowl’ will be avail-
able by the first of March. The copy was
carried bodily to the printers by two <stal-
wart sons of Old Davidson the first of this
week, and so it will not be too presumptuous
for the student body to expect the finished
product in two weeks.

As wag previously stated, this issue of
the magazine started bravely out to be the
Farm Issue. However, due to the extreme

paucity of material of a pastoral nature, this:

idea had to be dropped. It was then sug-
gested to call it the Depression Issue, but
as the staff could discover no method of dif-
ferentiating between the words “farming”
and “depression,” this too was given up .as
a bad job. But the old maestro was not to
be daunted, so he solved the problem by
calling it the “Second Issue.” Is there no
end to some people’s genius?

This second issue, for you may have
guessed that there really is to be a second
issue, will be more profusely illustrated
than any other issues of the “Yow!” ever
before published. It will be slightly longer
than the first, and will consequently make
a much warmer fire. The articles as a whole
will be shorter than those ‘in the first issue;

and thus much of the tedium experienced in|

reading it will be alleviated.

The staff wishes to apologize for the de-
lay in getting out this issue, but if you will
only stop and realize that during that time
they were beset by examinations, to say noth-
ing of the dread flu germ which cut down so

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson To Meet Three
South Carolina Quintets
Wildcats to Play Games With

U. S. C., The Citadel, and Char-
leston College on Trip

The Wildcats open a southern tour through
South Carolina against the University of
South Carolina tonight in Columbia. This,
together with The Citadel and the College
of Charleston, constitutes all the engagements

on this trip, which is the first and last out- |
of-state trip. The Wildcats will return here

and wind up the season against Wake For-
est next Wednesday.

Davidson’s quint went into a slump and

then pulled a miraculous come-back in the
course of one week to lead the Big Five
race, a place which they have held either
by themselves or jointly since the opening of
th season. They now go to South Carolina
as one of the best North Carolina produces
to match their prowess with the cream of
the South Carolina crop.

Tonight Davidson plays South Carolina in
their sole engagement of the season. South

(Continued on page 6)

Doctor MacConnell
Leaves for Chicago

Attends Congress on Medical Edu-
cation in Chicago and
Washington

Dr. John W. MacConnell, physician of

the college and secretary of the North Caro- |

lina Board of Medical Examiners, left last
Saturday night for Chicago, Ill., for his
fourth annual congress on medical educa,
tion, and before returning to Davidson, he
plans to attend the White House conference
on child welfare at Washington, D. C. Dr.
MacConnell will be absent a week, attend-
ing these two important gatherings.

At the Chicago meeting, which is spon-
sored ‘by the American Medical Association,
Dr. MacConnell will be toastmaster at one
of the two banquets to be given for the
visitors. Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur will be
the toastmaster of the other. He is vice-
president of the Federation of State Medical
Boards in the United States, and is a mem-
ber of the executive committee.

DR.W.T.THOMPSON TO
SPEAK TWICE SUNDAY

Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta
’ Kappa Are Among His Numerous
Davidson Honors

GRADUATED IN 1905

Served as Young Men’s Christian
Organization Director During
War

Next Sunday, February 22, Davidson will
have the pleasure of hearing one of her
distinguished sons, Dr. W. Taliaferro
Thompson, at the morning service in the
college church. Dr. Thompson will also con-
duct the “Y” vespers in Chambers Sunday
evening.

Dr. Thompson is one of the Presbyterian
Church’s eminent leaders and is a well
known speaker in the South. He now holds
| the professorship of psychology and relig-
| ious education in Union Theological Semi-
nary, Richmond, Va.

Graduating with the class of 1905, Dr.
Thompson acquired numerous honors, hav-
ing been Senior class president and a mem-
ber of both the baseball and tennis teams.
After the installation on the campus of chap-
| ters of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta
Kappa, Davidson granted to Dr. Thompson
| membership in both societies, an unusual and
| distinctive honor.

In 1910, Dr. Thompson was ordained as
a Presbyterian minister and held pastorates
in North Carolina and Tennessee.before be-
icoming connected with Union Seminary. Dur-
|ing the World War he served as Y. M,
|C. A. director at Camp Greene, Charlotte,
land later at Camp Jackson, Columbia.

| Two years ago, Dr. Thompson conducted
|

the annual fall services of the college “Y.”
| At present, he is attending the World Mis-
| sion Conference in Chattanooga.

‘Pre-Med Students

Given Examination

American Medical Association
Sponsors Examination Taken
Here Last Friday

Davidson College was one of a large num-
| ber of colleges and universities to give a
| medical adaptability examination last  Fri-
day, February 13, to both the pre-medical
students as well as those Seniors feeling in-
clined to do graduate work in some medical
university. The examination was sponsored
|by the American Medical Association and
| they charged a fee of $1.00 for the expense
| involved in getting this test. The examina-
tion was divided into six main sub-heads
| which were thorough in so far as adaptabil-
| ity was concerned.

| The first two parts included questions
| about the student’s tentative medical schools
| and also a quiz on his scientific vocabulary.
| The next two questions consisted of two
| diagrams of the female genital system and
| of the human eye, respectively. The student
| was allowed to study the first diagram ten
| unos and the second diagram fifteen min-

| utes, after which he was given a list of true
|

and false questions based on these diagrams
|and their notes. The fifth question was a
| series of true and false questions designed
| to derive the scope of the student’s practical
| knowledge on physics and chemistry; while
the sixth and last topic covered was a ques-
tion concerning the good and bad effects of
proper and improper exercise, and also what
features should control proper exercise.

The examinations are to be graded at the
national offices of the American Medical
Association, and the papers are to be re-
turned at the request of the college as soon
as they are checked. It is understood that
these tests are furnished only at the initiative
of the college, but even so they are becoming
nation-wide in thei rscope and are given
only once each year.

Facts About Rhodes

Election are Shown

In an article by Frank Aydelotte, Ameri-
can Secretary of the Rhodes Trustees, which
was published in the “American Oxonian”
for January, 1931, some interesting facts re-
garding the elections of December, 1930,
are made available.

“With one exception the men elected came
from institutions approvd by the American
Association of Universities, so there should
be no difficulties concerning their standing
at Oxford. Of the thirty-three scholars elect-
ed, eleven came from small colleges, a fact
which should reassure those who feared that
the new plan might throw all the scholar-
ships into the hands of the large universi-
ties. Only three instituitons secured more
than one scholarship: West Point won three;
Harvard and Princeton two each,” (Editor's
note: A year ago the United States Naval
Academy won six; West Point two; State
universities and State colleges sixteen, and
private institutions, not all of them small,
eight. Thus the small colleges fared better
under the new plan this year than under the
old plan.)

Mr. Aydelotte continues: “The distribu-
tion of appointments among the states is
extremely interesting. A number of populous
states including Pennsylvania, Illinois and
Texas received no appointments. On the
other hand many less populous states, in-
cluding New Hampshire, West Virginia,
Mississippi, Wyoming and Idaho, had schol-
ars elected. Four states, each with a popu-

(Continued on page 6)

Concord District Young
People Hold Conference

Delegates Are Guests of the First
Presbyterian Church of
Kannapolis

On Saturday and Sunday, February 7
and 8, the first Conference of the Young
People of Concord District was held in Kan-
napolis, N. C., and among the delegates were
seven representatives of the town and col-
lege of Davidson. They were as follows:
Misses Lois Hamilton and Mary Withers, of
Davidson, and Messrs. A. B. McClure, Don-
ald Brandon, James and William Ward, and
LeRoy Newland, from the college.

Beginning at 3 p. m. Saturday afternoon,
and continuing on until Sunday afternoon,
the program consisted, among other things,
of business transactions, inspirational ad-
dresses, talks, and model young people’s pro-
grams, not to mention a bountiful supper
given the conference delegates in the church
(First Presbyterian). Donald Brandon, of
Davidson,. presided at the conference, and
Albert McClure led the devotionals. The
complete program of the confernece follows:

Saturday, February 7, 1931
Donald Brandon, Presiding
3:00 P. M.—Registration.
3:30 P. M.—Song Service.
Welcome—Rev. W. H. Goodman.
Business.
Announcements.
Echoes from Fellowship District Conference
—Miss Evelyn Fowler.
Adjournment.

6:00 P. M.—Supper for delegates in the
church.

7:30 P. M.—Song Service.

Devotional—Mr. Albert McClure.

Welcome—Mr. Eugene Eudy.

Response—Miss Sara Johnston.

Announcements.

Inspirational Address—Rev. John L. Parks.

Adjournment.

Sunday, February the 8th, 1931

9:45 A. M.—Sunday School Worship Serv-
ice.

Talk on “Kingdom Highways” — Miss
Claudia Goodman.

11:00 A. M.—Sermon—Spiritual Exercise-—
Rev. W. H. Goodman.

3:00 P. M.—Song Service.

Model Young People’s Program—Presented
by young people of Rocky River Church.

The Honor Roll—Mr. C, T. Carr.

A Challenge—Rev. McK. R. Long.

Benediction.
®

a

CATS SCORE SECOND
VICTORY. OVER HEELS °
BY SCORE OF 30-28

Mathis and Martin Lead Hectic
First Half Attack, Giving
Davidson a 19-16 Lead

GOODSON PLAYS WELL

Alexander Leads Carolina Quint
Scoring Nine Points

For the second time this season the Da-
vidson Wildcats showed their superiority
over the Tar Heels of North Carolina, win-
ning this time, 30 to 28. The victory, won
at Chapel Hill, gave Davidson undisputed
lead of the Big Five race for the night.

Speedy floor work and fine shooting by
Mathis and Martin, forward and center of
the Red and Black five, gave Davidson a
19-16 lead after a hectic first half in which
the score was tied five times and the lead
changed five times.

Captain Bill Goodson, back in the game
after a forced layoff due to an injured ankle,
was the big show of the second half, garner-
ing 10 of his team’s 11 points. Most of these
five field goals were long and exceptionally
difficult shots.

The closest Carolina got to. the fast-step-
ping Wildcats in the second half was within
one point of their score, but the close guard-
ing of the Davidson quint kept the N. C.
five from gaining the lead.

Goodson, Mathis, and Martin were out-
standing for Davidson, Goodson being high
point man for the night with 12 points.
Hines, Alexander, and Marpet looked best
for Carolina, Alexander leading with nine
points.

Line-up and summary:

Davidson G. Fe. Pt.
Rusk tess <oScecec ae oe ss 1 0 0
ROADOUY ct cuncseesosccncucsse 0 0 0
Mathis tesserae sees oases oe 4 2 3
Mattinnieee serene setae se eZ 0 1
GOOd8OnS ae a2 asc cece ce sec oe 6 0 1
BhOGtoie gucci. secccsecseccoess 0 2 2

Motalsrees seen eae ene sess 13 4 8

Carolina Gr hae ts
Moore, f OGLE ROR PMNS icv PIPED CORTESE J 1 0

(Continued on page 5)

Seventeen Men Go

To World Congress

Davidson Group Was in Charge of
College Alumni Meeting

Wednesday
Sixteen Davidson College students and
Carl KE. Pritchett, executive ‘secretary of
the Y. M. .C. A. here, are to attend the

World Congress on Missions in Chattanooga,
Tenn,, this week, which meeting has been
arranged the Southern Presbyterian
Church. Headed by Pritchett, these students
were also in charge of an alumni meeting
for former students of Davidson on Wednes-
day night.

Plans for the Davidson alumni gathering
included talks by Ferguson Wood, of Chat-
tanooga, on “A Perpetual Heritage.” C, M.
Norfleet, Jr., of Winston-Salem, discussed
“What Davidson Students Expect From the
Alumni,” and J, A. Jones, of Laurinburg,
talked on “Davidson's Contacts.” It was
planned for the president of the Chattanooga
alumni chapter of Davidson to extend a
welcome, that an alumnus would talk on
“What Davidson Alumni Expect of the Stu-
dents,” and the closing address by a non-
alumnus, ‘An Outsider’s Viewpoint of Da-
vidson.”

by

Students making the trip from Davidson
included the above and R: L. McCallie,
Chattanooga, Tenn.; C. E. Moore, Charlotte,
N. C.; Geo. E. Bailey, Hickory; M. W.
Norfleet, Jr., Winston-Salem; T. H. Mc-
Callie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; W. M. Fries,
Mooresville; Jake Mackorell, Jr., York, S.
C.; W. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; R. H. Baker,
Mooresville; W. M. Thompson, Richmond,
Va.; Paul Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; Chas. F.
Myers, Jr., Greensboro, and J. H. McKin-
non, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.

*
