THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

ON TO
CHAPEL HILL

THE SPORTS PARADE

BEAT CAROLINA
!

In the final analysis, there were only two
perfectly executed plays, in so far as Da-
vidson was concerned, in the Wildcat-Bull-
dog scrap last Saturday, but these came at
vital moments when they were needed and
resulted in touchdowns. Even if we disre-
gard statistics of the game, it is doubtless
true that the cadets outplayed the ’Cats,
obviously in the last half, and for parts of
the first half. Statistics would tend to bear
out this observation, for we see that David-
son made only four first downs to The
Citadel’s twelve, that Citadel gained 179
yards from scrimmage while the ’Cats gained
127, and that Citadel completed six passes
to three for Davidson.

But why worry? We won the game and that's
enough, N. Y.°U. outplayed Georgia for fifty-
nine minutes of the game, but Georgia scored
in the last sixty seconds of the game and got
credit for a victory. Davidson scored in the
first two minutes of their game, and also in
the third quarter. 14-7. Not bad.

And when we stop to recall pessimistic
predictions for Davidson this year, we are
inclined to thumb our noses at some of these
prognosticators. In what was booked to be
our leanest year, we find the ’Cats with
four victories, two defeats, and two ties.
Two more victories would square up our
schedule to a T. One of these victories we
are anticipating, and for Thanksgiving din-
ner, we want on the menu, Demon Deacon
a la king, just like mother used to make.

With the exception of the two touchdown
plays, we find little upon which to comment.
Incidentally,, Charlie Pearce’s touchdown sprint
was one of the prettiest of the game. His punt-
ing was also above par, and it was obvious that
he had a big edge over the Bulldog punter.
Buck Mills played a good game, his two scin-
tillating runs of over fifty a apiece provid-
ing a couple of thrills for the stands. Peabody,
as usual, handled his punts easily, and King ran
his team well. We understand that his shoulder
injury wilhe-healed by Saturday. The line as
a whole played good football during the first
half, but was outcharged by the Buldogs dur-
ing the second half. Conway played one of his
best defensive games, and Wagner seemed to

handle the Big Man Mountain Rivers without
much difficulty.

‘And now Carolina. The Wildcats beat Car-
olina* last year, but make no mistake, the
Tar Heels have a powerful team this year.
There’s no getting around that. We only
need to point to the Tennessee game—Ten-
nessee 7, Carolina 0. We make no predic-
tions. That it will be a great scrap we take
for granted. The ’Cats will have to duplicate
and reduplicate their performance of the
Duke game to win over Carolina.

Our predictions for Saturday’s games include:
Tulane over Georgia.

Tennessee over Vanderbilt.

Duke over N. C. State.

Oglethorpe over Wake Forest.

South Carolina over Florida.

Penn. over Georgia Tech.

Kentucky over V. M. I,

Furman over Citadel,

Alabama over Clemson.

A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

°

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP |

| ———e

|

We Only Ask For
A Trial

’CATS MEET CAROLINA SATURDAY

Tentative Basketball

ildcats Go to Chapel
Wildcats Go to Chape Schedule

Hill Saturday to Play
Annual Tar Heel Game

Davidson Won Over Carolina Last
Year by Close Score, 7-6

Charlotte
Davidson

Saturday, Jan. 9—Carolina
Monday, Jan. 11—Furman

Friday, Jan.-29—Duke----=-==-..-.-.. Durham

BRANCH PROBABLY OUT Monday, Feb. 1—Duke-------------- Charlotte
ieee Thursday, Feb. 4—Erskine (?)

The Two Teams Are Ancient Rivals W«dnesday, Feb. 10—N. C. State------ Raleigh

Thursday, Feb, 11—Carolina Chapel Hill
Saturday, Feb, 13—College of Charleston
Davidson

On Grid

One of the most ancient of gridiron feuds will
be played this week-end when the University ,
of North Carolina Tar Heels will be met by ,
Davidson's scrapping Wildcats. The scene of |
this- Big Five title race will be the Kenan
Memorial Stadium at Chapel Hill.

Varsity Cross-Country
Runners Lose to V. P. I.
As Fresh Beat Winston

Football was introduced in North Carolina |
hy these two institutions and for over a period
of 34 years they have engaged in contests. | The cross-country varsity of V. P. I. defeated
Of these 29 games Carolina has won 20, four | the Davidson aggregation last Saturday, 23 to

were scoreless ties, and Davidson has won five. BSc Va Ph Te haeean exceptionally strong team

The most recent win scored by the Wildcats | this year and is slated to win the Southern
was last fall when they sprang a sensational | Conference. Brannon of Davidson proved him-
upset to nose out the Tar Heel team, 7 to 6.|sclf'a most worthy captain when he covered
During the season of 1926, the Wildcats won

the three miles in 16 minutes and 17 seconds.
by a score of 10 to 0, and in 1910 the score was | This is unusually good time, for he outdistanced
6 to 0 in Davidson's favor. Both the teams of | Miles of the Gobblers, who was slated to win,
1926 and 1910 were State Champions. The re- | by several hundred yards. Morrow of Davidson

Entire Freshman Squad Has Chance
to Show Its Strength

Friday on Richardson Field. The game was
substitutions were numerous and the game final-
ly ended with the last man on the Davidson
squad seeing action.

Hutchins was the outstanding player for the
home team as he squirmed, twisted, and outran
his Opponents during the time he was in the
contest. Following a 40-yard gain by Smathers,
Hutchins ran for a total gain of 34 yards and
the first touchdown of the game in the first
quarter, The Kittens made 18 first downs as
compared with the two made by the P. J. C.
aggregation,

Bumgarner, Wingfield, Legare and Hutchins
were responsible for the tallies, and Van Story,
West, Morgan, Smathers and, in fact, the whole

The Davidson Freshmen easily won over the |
weaker Presbyterian Junior College team last |

completely generalled by the Wildkittens as |

-Wildkittens Overwhelm
| Weak P. J. C. Team 36-0

| Betas Defeat Phi Gamms
To Decide Championship

On Thursday afternoon the Beta Theta Pi’s
defeated the Phi Gamms 2-0 in the finals of
the inter-fraternity football race.

The contest was well played and run off in
}good order. A sizeable crowd was on hand
|for the game.

From all appearances the two teams were
| evenly matched. The only department of play
in which the two teams might be contrasted
| would be in the defense presented by the op-
| posing lines. Here, it segtned that the Beta’s
} were a bit superior. This superiority might be
}accounted to the fact that the winners had a

| ry . .
| considerable edge in weight.

Both teams flashed consistent aerial attacks,
|although the Beta passing combination weak-
enc® toward the closing moments of play and
the Phi Gamms’ attack became more steady.

The winning setto of points came as a re-

maining pair of triumphs came in 1918, by a
score of 14 to 7, and in 1920, when the count
was 7 to 0. These scrapping Wildcats have
caused Carolina to write on the pages of its
football history just about the toughest rivalry
that these pages show.

Three of the four scoreless ties happened
way back in the early years of this century.
Three times in the course of five years the bat-
tles between the two teams ended in draws,
once in 1904, again in 1906, and the last in
1908. The fourth tie game was in 1921, when
the two football machines went the route with
neither team scoring,

Carolina’s victories have been numerous and
Carolina has rolled up four times as many
points as Davidson, acquiring 331 to the Wild-
cats’ 72. Carolina’s victories, and their scores
came in 1897, 10-0; 1898, 11-0; 1899, 10-0;
1901, 6-0; 1902, 27-0; 1905, 6-0; 1911, 4-0;
1912, 13-0; 1913, 7-0; 1914, 16-3. In 1915, the
Tar Heels scored the most decisive victory,
winning 41-6. They continued their wins in
1916, 10-6; 1919, 10-0; 1922, 29-6; 1923, 14-3;
1924, 6-0; 1925, 13-0; 1927, 27-0; 1928, 30-7;
and 1929, 27-7.

Fresh Beat Seniors in

First Basketball Game

Monday night, November 9th, the Freshman
basketball team beat the Seniors, 27-25. The
score was tied at the end of the period and so
a five-minute extra period was added. This was
the first of a series of inter-class basketball
games, the remainder of which will be played
off before the Christmas holidays. The game,
which was played between two very unprac-
ticed teams, furnished many thrills, and was
very well played, considering the practice that
the players have had together. The Freshmen
showed some very good material, and Davidson’s
varsity will doubtless be strengthened by them
in the future. There were quite.a few witnesses
to the game, the majority being Freshmen, who
seemed to be elated by the victory of the Fresh-
men over the Seniors.

was the sensation of the meet when he sprinted
within a few feet of Fisher of V. P. I., who
took third place. The order of the others was
as follows: Elder (V. P. 1.), Carter (V. P. 1.),
Grimsley. (V. P. 1.), Hudgins (V. “P. T.),
White (V. P. 1.), Howard (Davidson), Moss
(Davidson), Earle (Davidson), and Woodside
(Davidson),

The

same

Freshmen
morning

caught their stride in the
and upset the Winston High
crew, 25 to 29. The Harriers were State Cham-
pions last year and this is the first defeat they
have suffered this season. McFadyen of Da-
vidson set the pace during the entire two-mile
trot to finish first in the good time of 11 min-
utes and 12 seconds. He was closely followed
by Kinney of Winston, who was also pushed
by Captain Morris of Davidson, The remainder
of the runners finished as follows: Sandefur
(Winston), Gullette (Davidson), Hollingsworth
(Winston), (Davidson), Everett (Win-
ston), Patterson (Winston), and
(Davidson).

Rose

Richardson

The Associated Press is carrying a series of
personality sketches of prominent North Caro-
linians, and fast week they devoted an article to
Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville. The
activity of Mr. Rose is diversified, and a few

days ago it was learned through The Fayette- |,

ville Observer that he is now directing.a Y. M.
C._A. drive in that city, being president of that
organization,

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries
Stationery and Hot Drinks

Phone 9143

fa

Davidson

Theatre

“YELLOW
ELISSA

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

“GIRLS ABOUT TOWN”
KAY FRANCIS

WEDNESDAY
“MAD GENIUS”
JOHN BARRYMORE
THURSDAY

FRIDA
“ONCE A LADY”
RUTH CHATTERTON

SATURDAY
“TIP OFF”

TICKET”
LANDI

Y

Davidson team were at their best. Coaches | ot of a touchback charged against the Phi
Unger and Laird seemed satisfied with every- | Gamms, The ball was passed over the head of
one’s performance in the last game and are} Rogers, Phi Gamm fullback, and rolled ap-
looking forward to a victory in their next €n- | proximately twenty yards’ down the field and

counter, with Oak Ridge.

The starting line-up for both teams is as fol-
lows:

Bale G Position Davidson
Robinson LE. Morgan
Beasley (C) L.T, Siewers
Johnson L.G. 3rewer
Clark Center Lee
Davis R.G. Potter (C)
Hamer R.T. Batte
Singleton RE. Morris
Sandlin QO.B,. Smathers
Andrews LU. Wingtield |
Hit RH. Hutchins
Camphell F.B, Caton |
Score by periods:
Ber Ge) cee ee 0) 00
Dr Cush esec tees eee s (yo WAS 4 6—36
Franklin Fricker, '21, who is with the Ethyl

Gasoline Corporation, is now located at Bir-
mingham, Mich.

Henry S. Goodwin, ‘30, who is studying and

professional chemical fraternity.

teaching at the University of Michigan, has |
accepted a bid to Alpha Chi Sigma, national |

| just behind their goal line. Upon retrieving the

| ball, Rogers «was immediately tagged and con-
| sequently a touchback was the result. These

| points proved to be the winning margin.

| QOutstanding in the Beta backfield was Mc-
| Millan, who very ably skirted the ends and
| tossed passes. “Dunk” Calder shone in the line,
| playing a vicious, charging game. He personally
broke up several Fiji passes.

(Continued on page 6)

Complete Service
for School Publications
Yanuals

} (Doanet zines

(
dieu Books

atalous

Queen Cily Printing @o.
Charlotte? C

Nationally Known

Stetson “D” Store

.  SPBCIAL . .

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

and Justly Famous

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit

athletic union suits and shirts and

For

Men and Boys

for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how

HANES UNDERWEAR

eNO

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials!
ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

Light-weight Union Suits are excellent

shorts are made better by HANES.

For

Every Season
