HEAR DR. MILES
EVERY NIGHT

~The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

GET READY FOR
WAKE FOREST

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1931

No. 10

DR. WALTER L. LINGLE
GREETS NEW HEAD OF
UNIVERSITY OF N. C.

Dr. Frank Porter Graham is Inau-
gurated as President of State
Institution

5,000 WITNESS SERVICE

Colorful Ceremony Held in Kenan
Stadium With Many Notables
Attending

Dr. Walter Lingle was selected to extend the
greetings from colleges and universities of the
state at the inauguration of Dr. Frank Porter
Graham as the new president of the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on November
the eleventh,

The ceremony was held out-of-doors and the
robes of those high in academic circles lent
color to the already sublime day. Representa-
tives of colleges and universities in all parts of
the United States and Canada, and even some
from Europe, clad in the vestments significant
of their degree of scholarly attainment, were
present to extend their felicitations.

Dr. Lingle brought an illuminating piece of
history: to bear on the occasion. He told the
story of the comment of Dr. Samuel Euebuis
McCorkle, head of a school in Rowan County,
called “Zion-Parnassus,” at which a majority

of the first graduates were prepared. Speaking |

at the laying of the corner stone of East Build-
ing, Dr. McCorkle said: “May this hill be for
religion as the ancient hill of Zion, and for lit-
erature and the muses, may it surpass the
ancient Parnassus!’ He also quoted President
Battle’s comment: “On this foundation the uni-
versity desires to rest, the enlightenment of the
people, their instruction not only in secular learn-
ing but in religious truth, leading up to and
sustaining liberty by demanding and shaping
beneficent laws under which wealth may be
accumulated and individual happiness and na-
tional glory be secured, all sanctified by the
blessings of God; these are the objects, these
are the methods, these are the

good rewards
of the university.” j

Sunday Vesper Services
Led by Baptist’ Pastor

Subject, “Drawing Nigh,” is in Prep-
aration of Fall Services

Last Sunday night, November 15th, the
speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vesper services was
Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist
Church of Charlotte. Thomas McLean, of the
Senior class, was in charge of the services and
introduced the speaker. In his introduction, he
said that although many in the audience had
never seen the speaker of the evening, they had
probably heard him, since he was known to
many as North Carolina’s Radio Pastor. Pre-
ceding the address, a violin solo, “Souvenir,”
was rendered by Horace Ervin, head of the
music department of the Y. M. C. A,

The subject of Dr. Little’s talk was “Draw-
ing Nigh.” He said that he had chosen this
topic because he had heard that Davidson was
entering soon on her fall services, and he
thought that a talk on drawing nigh unto God,
and making our hearts receptive, would make
our fall services the more effective. Dr. Little
showed that God was at a great distance from
us; this distance was caused primarily by His
superior wisdom, the greatness of His works,
and His great goodness. Our Heavenly Father
has known far more than anyone on this earth
will ever know; we can see His wonderful
work, and His goodness far surpasses any hu-
man ability,

After telling of our distance from God, the
speaker gave us directions which, if followed,

would bring us closer to the Throne. The first |

way is by meditation and thought along spir-
itual lines. Dr. Little told the audience that the
way which everyone could know God better and
come into closer communion with Him would
be to meditate with Him if possible once every
day. The second way to grow closer to God

is by worship of God, and the last way is by |

association with good companions. Dr. Little
said that he didn’t mean for us to shun bad
companions, but he said for us to live so that
our companionship with them would make their
lives more Christ-like and therefore more fruit-
ful. 3

If these means of drawing nigh are carried
out, the results will be-favorable. We will be

(Continued on page 6)

Delta Pi Kappa Bids \Dr. Robert Miles Leads

Ten Prominent Men) Annual Fall “Y”’ Services

The following men received bids recently | Speaker Will Also Hold Conferences
from Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic | With Individual Students Con-

fraternity, for their attainments in literary en- | cerning Their Problems
deavors: Sam Preston, Bob> Gorrell, Charlie | po TERT:

Bettis, P. M. Conway, Gaither Jenkins, W. |
Ne Caligan, John Lake, E. A. Hancock, Horace | Westminster Presbyterian Church at Lynch-
| Erwin, and L. McKeithan. |burg, Va., arrived here Monday night, and
| The men and their honors, are as follows: | Tuesday morning began a series of evangelistic
; Sam Preston is junior manager of track; mem-! services under the auspices of the Davidson

“ber of annual staff and Reporters’ Club. He is College Y. M. C. A. His first talk was given

a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fra-| at chapel Tuesday morning, and he will con-
| ternity. clude the series of eight addresses Friday night.
| Bob Gorrell is varsity football manager; | Dr. Miles has written that his general theme

| business manager of the annual. He is a mem-
ber of the Student Council, “Y” Cabinet, Pub-
lications Board, Athletic Council, and Beaver
Club. He was ‘business manager of the Wildcat
Handbook and. vice-president of the Student | thought of “Leadership of Christ,” and his
| Body last year. He is a member of O. D. K.|individual topics are His Prayer, His Way,
land belongs to Phi Gamma Delta social fra-| His Power, and His Gift.
| ternity. The speaker is a graduate of Davidson Col-
Charlie Bettis is on the annual staff and is | lege and two years ago he was honored with a
a member of Sima Pi Sigma. He made his! doctor of divinity degree by Washington and
Freshman track numeral and is on the varsity | Lee University. He is a former college pastor,

for the four chapel talks will be “Life’s Ad-
justments” and he is developing this under the
_sub-heads of self, family, society and vocation.
His evening address will follow the general

|

Epsilon social fraternity. | Lynchburg club to the convention in Vienna.
Pi Conway is business manager of the Da-| While here he will also have ‘conferences with
vidsonian, He is a member of varsity football | individual students concerning their problems,
squad, “D” Club, varsity wrestling team, Ath-/ life vocations, and any other matters
letic Council. He is a captain in R. O. T. C.\ might be troubling them.
Conway belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social This is the annual fall services conducted by
fraternity. He was one of the men recently |the Davidson Y. M. C. A., when prominent
pledged to O, D. K. ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church
Gaither Jenkins is business manager of the |are brought to Davidson to confer with and
Yowl. He belongs to the International Relations | talk to the Davidson students.
Club and Alpha Phi Epsilon, He is the Slave |ice is held in the spring.

Cee wwe SIX ARE SELECTED AS
VARSITY DEBATERS IN

which

A similar serv-

W. Caligan is one of the managing editors
of the Yowl. He is a member of the orchestra, |
Woody belongs to Pi Kappa Phi social fra-
ternity. |

John Lake is assistant basketball manager, |
vice-president of the Reporters’ Club, exchange |

Rev. Robert W. Miles, D.D., pastor of the’

track squad now. He has made the Honor Roll) is active in various fields in Lynchburg, and |
several times. He is a member of Sigma Phijlast summer was the Rotary delegate of the |

\DR. PEARSE LECTURES
ON TROPICAL NATURE

Prof. A’ S. Pearse, of the Duke Zoological

1 . ’ pod
department, lectured on “Tropical Nature” in

,Chambers Auditorium last Thursday evening.
| The lecture was illustrated with colored slides
and proved to be educational and informative.

Prof. Pearsé Has been on the faculty at Har: |
vard, Wisconsin, and the University of the |
Philippines. He is also the author of two books |
and because of his wide travel the Faculty |
Committee thought him singuarly fitted to talk |

on a matter relating to the tropics.

The lecture opened with a slide showing a
knight and his lady riding @ut on horseback to
seek adventure. He told about crabs that cover

. LJ .
themselves up in the sand when the tide comes |

in, and many other interesting animals of the
sea,

He described the footpaths that wind their
way into the interior of Venezuela. He said
he was disappointed that there weren't many
monkeys in South America, but that they are
{numerous in Africa. Turtles were shown that
live in the desert, only eating the meager vege-
tation there and going without water for a long
period of time.

Dr. Pearse’ mentioned

every conceivable

phase of tropical life, from the products to re-!

ligion. The schools in the tropics were treated

at some length and the lecturer deplored the |

jfact that there aren't any more of them to
teach the throngs of young men who don't have
|the chance to go to sghool.

| Women in the tropics: make shingles out of
| palm leaves and sell them for ten cents a hun-
|dred. It was pointed out that progress is being
jmade in wiping out many of the dreadful trop-
ical diseases. :

People whose lives are spent in the cool
| temperate regions of th eworld have in general
exaggerated ideas of the tropics. The great heat
of which they hear or imagine impresses them
|unpleasantly, and visions of noxious wild ani-
mals and deadly diseases arise until the picture
becomes a nightmare.

TARHEELS OVERCOME
~ WILDCATS TO CLINCH
STATE CHAMPIONSHIP

Davidson Threatens in First and Last
Periods But Is Unable to Score

GARDNER OUTSTANDING

Long Runs by Croom and Ferebee
Win for Carolina

Outplaying the Wildeats of Davidson in prac-
tically the Tar
Heels last Saturday smashed and passed their

every department, Carolina
way to a decisive victory by the score of 20-0,
thus clinching the Big Five title

Carolina has one more inter-state game, that
with Duke Saturday, but since the Devils’ win
State last Saturday and the Tar Heels’
victory over Davidson, the title of State Cham-
|pions will go to Carolina regardless of the-out-
come of their game with Duke.

The Tar Heels demonstrated their superior-

over

ity early in the game, when in the first quar-
ter Jong runs by Croom and of
and 35 yards respeetively resulted in two touch-

Ferebee 65
}downs for Carolina. No more scoring was done
until the last quarter when.a 43-yard) march
resulted in the last touchdown of the game for
the Heels. Davidson, however, was on the de-
fensive for a large portion of the game.
Several times the Wildcats gained ground by
the superb punting of Charlie whose
of-
failed to click, and statistics show only
first for Davidson,

Pearce,

;punts averaged over 45) yards, but their
| fensive
| two

|

downs Passes were
grounded or intercepted, end runs were stopped,

and the performance in general was a com-

plete reversal from that displayed in the Wild-_

{eat victories over V. M. I. and the Citadel.

| Carolina made only three first downs during
the first quarter while scoring twice, and it was
the first quarter that whipped the ‘Cats from
the beginning, Davidson received. the kick-off,

editor of the Davidsonian, and a member of |
the Beaver Club. He is a member of Kappa |
Alpha social fraternity. |

FE. A. Hancock is a member of the Red and |

| Black Masquers, vice-president Euménean Lit- |

| erary Society,” assistant editor “Quips and |
| Cranks.” He belongs to Kappa Alpha social |
fraternity. |

Horace Erwin is president of the Red and |
Black Masquers. He has charge of the music |
|department of the Y. M. C. A. He is a mem-
ber of Sigma Upsilon and Eta Sigrfla Phi.

L. McKeithan is one the “Quips and Cranks’ |
editorial staff, member of the Glee Club. He is |
doing active work for the Y. M. C. A. this)
year.

Rhodes, Scholarship |
Committee Formed

A letter recefved from Frank Aydlotte of |
Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., Ameri- |
can secretary of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust, |
announces the personnel of the North Carolina |
Committee of Selection for. the Rhodes schol-
arship this year as follows:

Chairman: Hon. Josephus Daniels.

Secretary: Dean W. C. Davidson (New York
and Merton, '13), School of Medicine, Duke |
University, Durham, N. C.

Members: Prof. G. R. Vowles (North Da- |
kota and St. John’s, ’07), Davidson College,
Davidson, N. C.

President H. S. Hilley (Kentucky and Jesus,
14), Atlantic Christian College, Wilson, N. C.

Prof. C. P. Spruill, Jr. (Oklahoma and Mer-
ton, ’27), University of North Carolina, Chapel
;Hill, N.C. :
| This committee will meet Saturday, Decem-
| ber Sth, at a place not yet determined, to make |
its selection. |

STATISTICS OF GAME

|
|

| - Davidson Carolina |
biitst downs: 2-222" 2 11
| Yards gained at line -----___ 51 321
| Yards gained at ends ------_- 0 2
| Yards lost running plays ---- 13 26
| Passes completed 2
| Passes incompleted 1
Passes had intercepted ------ 2 1
Yardage on passes ---------- 12 46
Number punts -==-=--------- 11 9
Average on punts ---------- 44.6 34.3
Number punts returns ------ 8 6
Total yards punt returns ---- 57 71
Fumbles recovered, ~--------- 0 1)
Fumbles not recovered -------- 2 2)
Yardage penalized -----.---- 25 15|

TRYOUTS HELD MONDAY

Twenty-three Take Part in Trials ;

Held Under Auspices of Forensic
Council |

FIVE MEN ARE SENIORS

Knox, Kuykendall, Rule, McKinnon,
Powell, and McKeithan Win
Berths

The tryouts for the varsity debating team
were held in) Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium,
under the auspices of the Forensic Council, on
the evening of November 16. The judges for

the occasion were Dr. T. W. Lingle and Dr. |

J. M. McConnell of the history department, and
IDYe, CL NS,

ment.

Twenty-three men were aspirants for the |

he
named alternates. All but one of the six var-

sity debaters are members of the Senior class.
All of the men on 1

The following were selected on the varsity:

As a matter of fact, compared with temper-| made a first down on Carolina’s 48-yard Jine,
ate regions where such kaleidoscopic changes | and Mills made five yards on the next play.
are wrought by the change of the seasons the |
tropics are deadly monotonous, Perpetual sum- |
mer reigns and the only change of season is |

(Continued on page 6)

Brown of the social science depart- |

mor of being a varsity debater. Six men were |

; se 3 ‘ |
given positions on the varsity, while three were | rosette of leaves, often fleshy and channelled on |

ast year’s team retained their |
places except one, and he was named as an
| alternate.

that of wet dnd dry. Trees, shrubs, flowers and
fruits throughout the year and leaves shed at
any time. Among climbers the traveller in the
tropics is never out of sight of Bougainvillea.
The talk was divided into sixteen parts treat-
ing special topics. Dr. Pearse considers Brome-
liads peculiarly worthy of notice. The bulk of
the species are tropical but Old-Man’s Beard
abounds in) Florida and Louisiana, hanging
from trees in grey festoons. Though many are
epiphytes of the forests, especially those of the
Amazon Valley, quite a few are terrestrial
| Plants growing among “rocks. The best known
}of the whole family is the pineapple, now uni-

i versally cultivated in tropical countries. Most
of the species have a short stem bearing a
,the upper surface, their bases fitting closely to-
|gether. The leaves are covered with different
hues and are brilliantly colored.

Dr. K. J. Foreman introduced the speaker
|and expressed the pleasure of the college in
having Dr. Pearse as a visitor,

P. S. Knox, Edgar Kuykendall, William Rule, |

II], Jack McKinnon, Riley Powell, and Le- |

(Continued on page 6)

Masquers to Give Play

A hushed silence fell on the room.
No one stirred. All looked at the ceil-
ing, expectantly. Softly, then harshly,
it came, the long chuckling laughter,
as of a maniac, echoing and re-echo-
ing along the corridors. Suddenly a
heavy chain clanked on the floor
above. Then a shot—a piercing scream
—the lights went out.

“What —is — it?” stammered Joan.
“Can—it—be—” and with a cry she
sank to the floor. Morton sway-

ing on his feet grasped the back of a
chair to keep erect. A narrow band
of moonlight through the window fell
across the prostrate form. Slowly the
door behind him opened. A long hairy
arm slipped through the opening and
felt along the wall. Instinctively Mor-
ton whirled around, and just as —

‘Well, in short, on December 11th the
Red and Black Masquers will present
“The Haunted House,” their first
three-act play of the season.

Dr. C. K. Brown Gives

Pep Meeting Speech

Last Thursday night the annual pep meeting
|in advance of the Carolina game was held in
the usual place, Shearer Hall. Its description
‘can best be brought out by a shirt-tail parade

featuring Freshmen yelling, band playing,
shouting, ete.
It: began in the ordinary manner. As _ the

crowd grew the noise grew, and Shearer rocked
more and more. After all had assembled, the
band struck up, our three versatile cheerlead-
ers announced the yells in those brief periods
of silence, and those Tar Heels were doomed,
in spite of the heavy odds for them.

Dr. C. K. Brown was the speaker of the
evening and gave the talk. in his usual inspir-
ing manner. He. brought out the fact that Dr.
Lingle, at Chapel Hill a few days before, had
| Stated that in a way the University of North
Carolina was ours, as well as its students and
alumni’s. And then he asked why we couldn't
;do as we pleased with our own. More thunder-
| ous yells. He described the Tar Heel team as
|the Chesterfield team, “Good—they’ve got to
|be good,” and the Wildcat team as the opium

(Continued on page 6)

‘Mr. Joe B. Johnston to

| Speak at Vespers Here
\ Superintendent of Barium Springs
| Orphanage to Speak at Vespers
Here Sunday Night

Mr. J. B. Johnston, of Barium Springs, will
leonduct the vesper services at Davidson Sun-
day, November 22, in Chambers Auditorium,
vat 6 o'clock. Mr. Johnston is véry well known
the Davidson having come here
|many times to speak at vespers, and to speak
at pep mectings. He is superintendent of the
| Barium Springs Orphanage at Barium Springs,
G :

Mr. Johnston was graduated from Davidson
in the class of 1901, and since that time
has been here quite a number of times, and
consequently is very well known among the
faculty and the student body. During his stay
at Davidson, Mr. Johnston made a very en-
viable record in athletics, especially in foot-
ball, and a few years ago he was awarded one
fof the five golden footballs presented that year
iby the Athletic Association to the alumni.

For quite a few years Mr. Johnston has been
| connected withthe Barium Springs Orphan-
jage, and he has always kept in contact with
Davidson. In all of the activities of the college,
Mr. Johnston has been a very firm supporter,
and he is a “true Wildcat,” as it was expressed
by one member of the faculty.

fon campus,

| N,

|
| College

Presidentsinale Is
WBT Radio Speaker

Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson
College, highly entertained the radio listeners
of the nation-wide hook-up from Charlotte over
Station WBT ‘ast Saturday, the 14th, from
8:30 to 9:00 p. m, His address was based on
the liberal arts college movement.

He was also a speaker at the First Presby-
terian Chtrch at Chapel Hill, November 8th.
Then last Wednesday, on behalf of the colleges
of North Carolina, he made a very impressive
address to an enormous crowd at the inaugura-
tion of the eleventh president of the University
of North Carolina, The latter part of the week,
| Dr. Lingle was an honored guest and speaker
at the Mooresville Rotary Club. ° * :
