STUDENT Bopy } / ( Da SIX O'CLOCK
INSTALLATION ELECTIONS
AND BANQUET ALMOST
TOMORROW NIGHT he V1 sonian COMPLETED
a “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 30, 1931 No. 26

Class Representatives
on Student Council for
Next Year are Elected

Men Outstanding for Past Three
Years Are Elected by Rising
Senior Class

FIFTEEN MEN SELECTED
John Lafferty and Bill Johnson Are

Selected Sophomore Representa-
tives

Last week the elections for the represen-
tatives of each class on next year’s student
council were held. Representing the Senior
class next year will be E. S. Brannon, R.
W. Gorrell, C. M. Miller, L. S. Raker, N.
G. Spier, J. H. McKinnon, and D. S. King.

The rising Junior class elected the follow-
ing men: John Howard, Robert McCallie,
J. D. Enochs, and Jerome Clark, Next year’s
council members from the Sophomore class

will be Bill Johnson, John Lafferty and E.
L. Powell.

The Senior councilmen have all been out-
standing members of their class and of the
student body throughout the last three years,
being leaders in various activities on the
campus.

Emmett “Soup” Brannon, from Rome, Ga.,
member of Phi Delta Theta, is a varsity
track star. Last year he broke the college
record for the two-mile run, and this spring
broke his own record. Last fall he set the
college record for the three-mile run during
cross-country season.

Bob Gorrell, from Winston-Salem, N. C.,
member of Phi Gamma Delta, was business
manager of the Wildcat Handbook, and
junior business manager of the “Quips and
Cranks.” Among his other activities are:
President of the Beaver Club, junior man-
ager of football this year, vice-president of
the student body, and is manager of the var-
sity football team for next year.

Martin Miller, from Laurens, S. C., :nem-
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has served on
the student council before. He played Fresh-
man and varsity football, and is advertising
manager of the “Quips and Cranks.”

Bud Raker, from Lexington, N. C., is a
member of Kappa Alpha, and is well known
around the campus as an athlete. He played

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Ericson Reviews
_ Dr. Cummings’ Work

Dr. William P. Cumming, of the English
department of the college, has recently made
a study called “The Revelations of Saint
Birgitta.” Professor E. E. Ericson, of the
University of North Carolina, comments fa-
vorably on this work in the May, 1931, issue
of Modern Language Notes. The critic re-
lates something of the life of the Swedish
saint and the unpublished manuscript which
is the source of Dr. Cumming’s work. Pro-
fessor Ericson in his review shows his en-
thusiasm over the Davidson professor’s mod-
ernized spelling, more normal capitalization,
and complete vocabulary. He goes on to say
that “the editor has brought judgment and
thorough scholarship to the task and the re-
sult is a volume admirable in the tradition
of famous editors of the Publications of the
Early English Text Society.”

Another scholarly work that Dr. Cum-
ming wrote lately appears in the April is-
sue of “Studies in Philology.” The title of
this study is “The Influence of Ovid’s Meta-
morphoses on Spenser’s Mutabilitie Cantos.”
The study is written with many footnotes
to help the reader to understand the theory
of preceding writers about the influence of
“Metamorphoses” on Spenser.

The Davidson professor claims that the
Lucretian passage is but a passing reference
of a line, and there is no parallelism of line
or thought to show that Spenser made use
of the poem. He maintains that Spenser
confuses two. stories, which is not. unusual
among the classic writers, as well as mod-
ern commentators. The subject calls for a
familiarity with mythology, old classic writ-
ers and their works, and demonstrates that
he is a true conoisseur of this topic.

Dwelle is Editor of
Next Year’s Annual

On Tuesday, April 21, E. C. Dwelle, Jr.,
of Charlotte, N. C., was elected editor-in-
chief of the Davidson annual, Quips. and
Cranks, by the rising Senior class. He suc-
ceeds A. R. Bird, of Washington, D. C., |
who is editor of the. publication this year. ey ee
Dwelle was efected on the first ballot, de-| On Monday evening, May 11, the Delta
feating William Rule, D. G. Stephenson, | Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity
W. T. Hancock, and W. B. Hawkins. All| 2t Davidson will hold its initiation services.
of these men were nominated for the posi-| The speaker on the program will be Dr.
tion by the annual staff. | Howard E. Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem,

| son of the late Bishop Edward Rondthaler.

Dwelle’s electi is the culmination of | P Fi 5
M4 aS Hane evsciatite Mi | Dr. Rondthaler is the president of the Salem
three years’ work on the Quips and Cranks

a ery ; College and Academy, and is an outstanding

staff. He has specialized in literar | ; oF aed , ;
a aienine sates ive pond ae } man in Winston-Salem, especially in church
his first year on the Davidsohian, the gate) ore BO oul saa puey EloWa aaae
jee é Gapevine: tile Residents: anneal | great’educator and a Bible student. He has
ae Dunne ‘id iE and So emir | been at Davidson several times to speak at
vente he was a renoner and a the i vet | the “Y" vespers, and is remembered as a
held the position of managing editor of that eke ae sheexer is these ie adel F
publisuHon. Wille a. student. at MoCattie Dr. Rondthaler is a true Davidson friend
School, he edited The Pennant, the year book aud Ron ene: Ht very Menly, ;
of that jnsdtiion The alumni and student members will be

wae a es bs} ini initiated at this service and the annual ban-

welle Is a member of Sigma Alpha Ep- | quet will be held afterwards.

silon, social fraternity; Sigma Upsilon, na-
tienal honorary literary fraternity; the In-|
ternational Relations Club, Delta Pi Kappa,
national journalistic fraternity; Le Cercle

Mu Beta Psi Sponsors
Francais, wearer of the Golden Quill, and | National Music Week
the Beaver Club. He was on the honor roll) . oes ae

the first semester of this year and is an out-| Dy Baldwin Internationally Known
pry | id F y r
standing student. | Organist, to Give Concert Here

Dr. Howard Rondthaler
To Speak at Initiation
of New 0.D.K. Members

Installation Service Will Take Place
on May 11th, in Chambers
~ Auditorium

The Beta chapter, Mu Beta Psi, national
honorary music fraternity, will sponsor Na-
tional Music Week, May 3-9, on the Da-
vidson campus.

Junior Class Conducts
Weekly Vesper Service

Rue and Speir Give Interesting | ©» Monday night, May 4, there will be
Talks on “Spiritual Tests” | an all-Queens’ recital in the Chambers Audi-

a 'torium, featuring organ, violin and yoice.
On Wednesday of the same week, Dr.

The Junior class conducted the vespers
program last Sunday night, and at first] Minor C. Baldwin will give an organ re-
planned to hold the exercises outside, put |cital on the $20,000 Skinner organ in the
because of the unfavorable weather the serv- | Chambers Auditorium.
ice had to take place in Chambers Hall.) Thursday night the representatives of this
Jack McKinnon acted as leader and inter- | district will engage in a voice contest, to
preted with the aiidience the responsive read- | determine who will represent Davidson in
ing. Horace Erwin directed the singing, and| the Atwater-Kent state radio audition con-
Don King and Roger Enloe pronounced short | test to be held later in Charlotte. This con-
prayers. The Brass Quartet rendered a fa-| test is to be held in Chambers Auditorium
miliar musical selection in keeping with the | also, Quite a few have signed up to enter
spirit of the service. {this contest and it promises to be a good

In his introductory paragraph Bill Rule! one.
asked the question, “Why does God make | There will be several special features dur-
life’s paths so steep and rocky?” He prompt- | ing the chapel services of the weck. Mu
ly declared that the Lord makes them dif-| Beta Psi will be in charge of these services
ficult and treacherous to test and measure | during the week May 3-9.
people's worth. He cited several examples! Special attention should be given to Dr,
as, the test of Abraham's faith, Noah’s faith | Baldwin, who plays here Wednesday night
as exemplified in building the ark, and the! Dr. Baldwin has been the nation’s organist
many trials that Jesus faced. He maintained | for the past quartér-century. He was the
that tests show whether the individual is a | solo organist at the World’s Fair, and at
strong or weak character. The speaker ex-| the Philadelphia, Charleston, Omaha, and
plained that just as students are examined | St. Louis Expositions. He has given public
in school to find out how much knowledge | concerts in the large cities of North Amer-
they have accumulated, so are they searched | ica, England, and Europe. At,each of these
to ascertain how much spiritual depth they | concerts he was very well received. Some
possess. He claimed that often men are led | press remarks about him are: “The Saint
into difficult circumstances that seem un-| Saens of America; A perfect artist; Second
necessary, like Israel’s’ wanderings, but he | to none in the world; Seldom, if ever, have
pointed out the helpful lessons that the | we heard anything more inspiring.”
Israelites learned from the desert while. so- | He is indeed a great artist, one of the
journing there. Another aspect that was | world’s most famous organists, one who has
mentioned is that Jesus is willing to walk | delighted his hearers with his music for over
by the traveler’s side and be a lamp unto his | (Continued on page 6)
feet. In a forceful manner he outlined the
life of David Livingstone, the hero of the O f . d
Dark Continent, and added that although xror
this. missionary no longer blazes On Monday evening, May 4, at
through Africa, his influence lives on. 7:30 o'clock, Dr. G. B. Vowles, Pro-

Nat. Speir continued along the same trend fessor of German at Davidson, will
of thought and stressed the importance of speak in the auditorium of Cham-
making wise decisions, He brought atten- bers building. His subject will be
tion to Solomon’s ability to make decisions “Oxford, and the Rhodes Scholar-
and asked the group assembled if they would ships.” He will speak on the life at
have made such an unselfish decision as this Oxford and also on the methods of
king. Affirming that the few who know how appointment and other information
to make decisions control those who are|| comcerning the scholarships. Dr.
undecided, he reminded his hearers that it Vowles attended Oxford and will
is said that one hundred men control Amer- give us a very interesting talk, as it
ican politics. Next, the speaker advised the will be first-hand knowledge. His
audience to choose someone to help them lecture will be illustrated by about
make decisions. He showed how Joseph was fifty slides that were furnished by
filled with compassion instead of hatred for|| the American Secretary of the

Rhodes Scholarships.
The Seniors and Juniors are esp--

his brothers after they treated him so cruelly.

He deplored that such large numbers of
cially urged to attend, and the other
classes and townspeople are invited,

trails

people can not make decisions and gave the
rich young ruler as an example of this type
(Continued on page 6)

STUDENT BODY BANQUET;
INSTALLATION SERVICES
ARE SET FOR TOMORROW

DAVIDSON DEPUTAT’N
GOES TO GREENSBORO

Conducted Services at the “Y” and
Also at Several Churches

At the request of the Cone Memorial Y.
M. C. A. at Greensboro, N. C., a group
made up of twelve members of the retiring
“Y" cabinet went on a deputation to Greens-
boro during the past week-end. These men
conducted services at the Y. M. C. A., sev-
eral of the Greensboro churches, and some
Sunday Schools. Part of the men went up
Friday while the rest went Saturday. They
returned Sunday evening.

Last week had been “Witnessing Week”
at the Greensboro “Y.” Personal interviews,
some of which resulted in decisions, were
given by members of the deputation on Fri-
day and Saturday. On Sunday the Davidson
men had charge of five church services,
twelve Sunday School. classes, and three
young people’s meetings. They made talks
before the collected members of four Sun-
day Schools.

Each year a deputation made up of the
old “Y” cabinet goes to Greensboro in the
spring to hold services. During the past
few weeks Davidson has been well repre-
sented at Greensboro, On April 19, eight
men were at the Presbyterian Church there;
last Sunday, twelve men went up, and on
May 3, four men will make the trip to sing
at some of the seryices,

Those who went up Friday were John
Preston, Stuart Meacham, F, L. Wood, and
Charles Burch, On Saturday, M. W. Nor-
fleet, Chester Arnold, Dean Rusk, Archie
McLean, Albert McClure, Sam Wiley, Wal-
ter Fraley, and Carl Pritchett made the
trip.

Sophs Cast Unanimous
Vote Against Soph Day

Due to Faculty Restrictions This
Annual Custom is Discontinued

It was thought at the first of the year
to have a Soph Day as has been the cus-
tom at Davidson for The present
Sophomore class began making their plans
for the day so that they would be within
the faculty restrictions. There was to be no
form of hazing connected with Soph Day.
A delay arose from some cause and meat-

years.

while the court of control decided to allow
their This
disrupted all the plans of the Sophomore
class.

A meeting of the Sophomore class was
called and Soph Day was discussed. It was
decided that the Soph Day was really more
harmful to Davidson’s name than it war-
ranted. A vote was taken and it was unani-
mously decided that the custom of Soph Day
should be abolished.

The action thus taken was to eliminate
other methods of hazing which had _ hereto-
fore come from Soph Day.

the Freshmen to remove caps.

Managers Selected
For Student Store

A. S. Montgomery and .N. G. Speir, both
of the rising Senior class, have been recent-
ly made manager of the Student Store for
the coming year. Nat Spier is to be book-
keeper, while Alec Montgomery is to handle
the buying part of the business. These two
will take charge of the store beginning with
the first of May.

Alec Montgomery is a member of the Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity, and has been
active in Student Store work. His appoint-
ment comes as the result of three years of
endeavor.

Nat Spier is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity, and has held many
outstanding positions on the campus, includ-
ing that of president of the present Junior
class.

Dan Goodykoontz to Preside Over
Installation Services Which
Begin at Six o’Clock

BARBECUE ‘TO BE HELD

Don King to Take Over Office as
President of Student Body

Following a custom instituted by the last
year’s Senior class, the installation of all
student body*officers will be accompanied by
a student body banquet. The installation ex-
ercises will take place on Friday, May 1,
at 6 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium, and
after this the banquet will be given. This
year’s banquet will be in the form of a
barbecue supper and all students are expect-
ed to attend. On Friday evening, due to this
supper, none of the various boarding houses
will be open.

The installation exercises will be presided
over by Dan Goodykoontz, president of the
student body. The officers of the Athletic
Association, the student body, the David-
sonian, and the Annual, will all be installed.
Following this ceremony, the retiring presi-
dents and the incoming presidents of each
of these groups will make short talks to the
students.

Following this meeting, the students will
be given plates in the banquet hall, and they
will then go out on the campus behind the
building, where the barbecue is to be served.

The banquet this year is sponsored by the
Senior class and there will be a charge of
approximately thirty-five cents to’ students.
Mr. Sherrill, connected with the American
Legion in Mooresville, has been selected to
provide the barbecue. Tags, serving as tick-
ets of admission to the supper, went on sale
yesterday at the drug store. They may also
be secured after chapel exercises tomorrow
morning.

All the faculty members and townspeo-
ple are invited to attend these exercises.

Rising Junior Class

Names Clark Leader

In an election held several days ago, Je-
rome Clatk was elected president of the ris-
ing Junior class. He was elected to that
honor on the second ballot. Those nominated
for that position were Jerome Clark, John
Howard, Dus Enochs, Paul Brown, and Bill
Flinn, On the first ballot this group was
reduced to Clark, Howard, and Brown, and
on the second, Clark and Howard tied ex-
actly.

Only one hundred and twenty-eight votes
were cast on the second ballot, so everyone
was urged to vote in order to break the tie
between Clark and Howard. The necessity
for another vote was removed, however,
when John Howard withdrew his name.

Clark, from Fayetteville, N. C., is one of
the outstanding men on the campus. He is
a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon so-
cial fraternity, vice-president of the
Freshman class, and is a member of the
varsity football squad.

Conway Holds Office

in Press Association

was

Last week at a meeting in Raleigh of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press, P. M. Con-
way, Davidson Junior, was elected vice-pres-
ident of the association for the coming year.
The convention was held April 23 to 25, and
was made up of representatives from the
staffs of the leading college papers of North
Carolina,

P. M. Conway is a Junior at Davidson,
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity, and first sergeant in the R. O. T. C
unit. Last season he was captain of the
wrestling team.. He is a member of the
“D” Club, and assistant business manager

(Continued on page 6)
