N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents

=

er copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class eacar at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

}: WILSON McCUTCHAN....................Editor-in-Chief
. A. CANNON Busi: Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR Managing Editor
W. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD. News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
A.--R, JACKSON cscs ssssssescsastescesccscscccacs Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN......... is iate Editor
ae ACK.. es Associate Editor
. C. RAGIN.. Pa A iate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

M. CONWAY. Assistant Business Manager
B -Assistant Business Manager

-Assistant Business Manager
-----------Subscription Manager
oun Sol citor
olicitor

or

| <>>pw>s>s

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WIDEY jotta eo OA es President

Ss. S.
D. G, STEPHENSON? 22-2 8 Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD..........2.22..2...4 Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY G. E, BAILEY
A. R. BIRD . E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
. E, LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICH
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

APRIL 16, 1931

What 1s most interesting about each genera-
tion of men is the things they never thought of.
G. K. Chesterton.

SUGGESTIONS
Wonder how bad Soup Brannon felt about his
last year’s track record being broken. Congratu-
lations to both Soup and Billy!

Ever eager to please their customers, the Stu-
dents’ Store made a bid for early trade the other
morning. One of their most energetic clerks got
up and opened the store at seven-thirty. It looks
as though they will not have to close down at all
after examinations. start.

Seems like the “Dons” are having a big year of it,
one of them is President of the Student Body, and
the other head of the Athletic Association.

A new story came to our ears the other day. It
seems that Dr. Shearer, former president of the
college, was tried before a church court in Virginia
on the charge of selling a stack of hay to a circus.
The hay was presumably for the elephant. Dr.
Currie, the grandfather of Davidson’s present Pro-
fessor of Political Science, defended him, and, we
understand, procured an acquittal.

If we have a last hope it is that more men will
read the editorials of the new editor than have
been wont to do.

It wouldn’t hurt to put the chairs back in the
parlors after one is through using them in the
evening.

SWAN SONG

With this issue the present editorial staff
of The Davidsonian passes into oblivion, as
far as newspapers are concerned, and be-
comes a part of past history. This year’s
edition pl become a part of the files kept
by the organization, with the hope of being
brought to light in future time when Wwor-
ried reporters search for items destined to
fill the “Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago”
column. It is characteristic that men should
be more concerned with the future and pres-
ent than with the past.

In our own defense let it be said that this
is in no way intended to pass for an apology.
Things which were planned and not consum-
mated must be placed in that large list of
resolutions which must ever fall short of
realization. It is probably true that we have
failed to some extent in our own hopes and
in matters which were expected of us. at the
same time we feel that we have succeeded
in keeping out of the rut of complacent
philosophy which Emerson terms “the hob-
goblin of little minds.”

Yet, The Davidsonian is not by itself in
the matter of changing its personnel. Lead-
ers of the Student=Body, Athletic Associa-
tion, and Y. M. C. A. have already been

chosen. Others will soon follow, probably

before the next issue of this sheet. The
staffs, cabinets, and other officers of the
organizations will be elected and appointed
before long. We wish to extend congratula-
tions to all of them.

There is one fact which should prove in-
_ Spiring to those men who are about to take
over the reins of student body government.
There is always room for improvement.
There can always be a little touch added
that will increase the value of the most
efficient organization.

DAVIDSON’S SPIRIT

Quite a lot has been said recently concern-
ing that “Wildcat Spirit.” Adverse criticism
has not been restrained. There is no doubt
in anyone’s mind that there has been a de-
pression—a leashing—a restraint in the
manifestation of our spirit. Particularly dur-
ing the past basketball season has this been
the case.

The question has naturally arisen this
year as in every ear during the past, “Is that
Wildcat Spirit dying out?” Are the students
of Davidson sitting back and living on the
past reputation of Davidson, a reputation
made by our spirit ?

Because there has been a reéStraint or a
depression of our spirit does not mean that
‘Davidson’s spirit is dying out. On the con-
trary it is growing each year. Not in the
| past three years has there been a better spirit
| shown than during the football season of
| 1930, and not in the past three years has
| Davidson had a better team or a more suc-

cessful season. During the basketball season
| there was a decided change, but that does

not mean that the spirit is gone.
This depression in spirit may be due to
numerous things. It may be due to the fact
that there is a depression in almost every
i feld=in finance, in education, and in busi-
ness. It may be due to the fact that certain
things have been taken away which students
believe Davidson’s spirit stands. It may be
| due to the fact that there has been a general

shifting and uneasiness among the students
| themselves, because so many of them have
| had to leave school due to financial difficul-
| ties. Or, it may be because some few in-
| dividuals are unconsciously indifferent to-
ward that intangible things, and yet infinite-
ly vital thing called “spirit.” Whatever may
may be the cause of this depression in

Davidson’s spirit it certainly cannot be said

to be due to the students, themselves.

There is now a general trend toward bet-
ter times. This is true with the American
people as a whole; they are becoming more
vitally interested in all fields of endeavor.
And to those who have a slight fear that
our spirit is not all that it might be, we
would say just this: That fear is unground-
ed, and for proof watch that Wildcat Spirit
made manifest, more than ever before. And
to the students—just one plea: Keep up your
good work; lend your continued support to
Davidson’s athletics, place Davidson’s pa-
triotism on a pinnacle, the like of which has
never been reached in the annals of the in-
stitution.

E. D. Kuykendall.
GET BEHIND THEM

With the appearance of this edition most
of the student body elections will have been
completed. The die is cast, and there can be
no turning back. The only risk lies in the
fact that those when who have had respon-
sibilities placed on their shoulders must ac-
cept them with their best ability while the
students who conferred these honors on
them find their support more or less option-
al. This situation should not exist, but there
is no good way in which to remedy it.

In national politics the man who forsakes
the principles of his party before his election
stands little chance of gaining a position. On
the other hand, an official’s constituency has
an astonishing manner of abandoning him;
he is left alone. The latter part of Woodrow
Wilson’s administration serves as an illus-
tration. We feel that students at Davidson
generally get behind their leaders and help
them, but they could help them more. If
there is a laxity in support it is more con-
cerned with the organization than with the
individual.

Another column treats of the support due
to athletic teams and at sports contests.
There is little question but what there could
be more enthusiasm shown in‘ Y. M. C, A.
affairs. A glance at the attendance chart on
the front of the Y building will show a de-
cidedly erratic graph. Too many men are
inclined to regard Vespers as a source of en-
tertainment rather than as a place where
they can have their own worship in the quiet
of the evening.

Neither has the Court of Control received
its full amount of co-operation. Every vy
it appears that the students show a oilers
reluctance in reporting delinquencies of
rules and regulations. Still, they are ready to
remark on vafious and sundry infractions.

At times it would appear that there is a
tendance among the students to appear as
blase and indifferent individuals. In attend-
ing to outside interests and activities they
are too prone to overlook those on ther own
campus, Although they are not staging a
comeback, literary societies have illustrated
the ashes into which the fires of an active
organization can smolder. In the final analy-
sis it lies with the students more than with
the leaders as to whether organizations suc-
ceed or not.

Reflections: (This is not an attempt to be high
Schoolish or even to imitate a certain well-known
writer but merely a divulgence of the concensus
and an impartial expression of observations)—Dr.
Frazer Hood, while a professor at Northwesteru
University, organized the second college insurance
salesmanship department established in the United
States.

Jim Proctor deserves a world of credit for his
versatile sport activity—and he really fights when
he plays... The nightly dormitory prayer meetings
are Davidson's finest features. . . The sophomore
class is the best in college. . .Fred Fleagle, while
on the freshman football team, gave the finest ex-
amples of Davidson fight in the past two years—if
ten others fought like he did, very few teams could
beat us. ... Dr. Gwynn is mighty thought-stimulat-
ing in his discussions. . . . Dr. Thomas W. Lingle
often | visited Woodrow Wilson’s home while a
student.at Princeton at which time the great Pres-
ident was a professor there—and had many chats
together.

Don King, llen Mebane, Nat Spier—ideal col-
legians. . . The boys here from Mississippi and
Alabama are the best-liked group in. Davidson—
very representative of the easy-going extreme
southland... Dr. Walter Lingle is the most human
college executive we ever knew. . . Everybody
should remain here for the Commencement exer-
cises—they are extremely impressive. . ..No other
educational institution i nthe United States has a
finer all-round reputation than Davidson. . .. Wish
we had Ned Dwelle’s reserved dignity. . . Bill Lea,
judging by his good work last fall, is a splendid
band leader. . . Pat Boyle succeeds Major Hoople
as the. college ‘“character’—two much admired
men.

Jim Brock and Dace Russell are two of the
finest riflemen in the country—they have captured
many medals in strong competition. . . Spend an
interesting afternoon some day, reading the old
college annuals—some are very amusing. .. We
have the greatest admiration for Jazz Jones. .. .
Speaking of princely felows, find a better group
than this—Hub Covington, Henry MacFadyen,
Alec Montgomery, Caldwell Roane, Archie How-
ard Charlie Kraemer, Bob McCullough, Bill Poe,
Boots Wilson, Bob Gorrell, Jack McKinnon, Charlie
Norfleet, Hal Wilson, Bob Davis, Greer Martin,
Bruce Peabody, Larry Smith, Charlie Parker, Bill
Goodson, Jack Ramseur and Bob Orr—there are
many others too.

Wilson McCutchan will teach at Assuit College

in Egypt next fall... Bill Mason is a typical col-
lege athlete. . . The freshman class looks better
every day... We have over a dozen men enrolled

at Davidson from foreign countries—all sons of
missionaries. .. Bill Belk has been re-elected editor
of the official state student Volunteer publication—
mainly because of his past efficiency. .. Soup Bran-
non is the most conscientious college athlete of our
knowledge—he keeps in training every day of the
whole year—more Davidson spirit... Who could be
more entertaining than Horace Erwin? ... Every
student should speak to every member of any
visiting athletic team or any visitors on the cam-
pus—and make them feel at home—what do you
say?
of our college—and best-known of Davidsons col-
ored folk.

The beautiful chandelier in Phi Hall is said to be

of historical significance. . Want to solve a pubble?
Then try to find out who's who among the Thomp-
son twins. . . Bill Matthews is a prolific writer. .
Ed Kuykendall is making a noble effort to keep
Davidson spirit as high as ever—and he is suc-
ceeding—have you noticed the improvement too?
Al Tong is a superb actor. .. Mrs. Robson, our be-
loved nurse, will give her famous Mother’s Day
peech to David men only every four years—
and they are so inspiring, we wish she would
change her mind and make it an annual affair—we
plead for all. ‘

Andy Bird—indefatigable worker—one reason
for his prominence, . . Professor Kimbrough is a
star baseball player—as well as a keen student of
all athletics. .. George Pardington is one of the
leading baritones in the .whole south. Sergeants
Burton and Kirby—typical army non-commissioned
officers and popular with everyone. . . Outstanding
on the football field—Don McQueen‘s pluck. . .’ The
campus is just beginning to look beautiful. . . Dav-
idson has the most excellent college faculty of any
small school in the country, we sincerely believe.
Every student should read Miss Shaw’s charming
book “Davidson College’—an interesting and com-
prehensive compilation of intimate facts about our
institution—a record of its growth and develop-
ment—and innumerable incidents about our college
which every Davidson man should know. It may
be procured at the treasurer's office at a reasonable
price.

Gene DuBose and Roger Enloe—two brilliant
students. ~. Dave Murphy and Buddy Gardner—
original personalities. . . Mr. Jackson, Mr. Henge-
veld, and Miss Hattie Thompson are exceedingly
accommodating to every one—although they are
invariably busy. . . Marshall Ney, one of Napoleon’s

... Dr. Charles and Enoch—a veritable part -

- MUSINGS of te
_,MATADOR

VEREEN
‘ BELL

DICTIONARY

PERIOD: Bobtailed comma, ‘designating whoa.

CYNIC: Person who missed his cup of coffee at
breakfast some morning. Often confused with
kitchen variety, the kitchen cynic, into which the
cook piles the dishes that she is too tired to wash.

STUDENTS: Young men who go to school to
keep from going to work and wonder whether or
not they chose the lesser,of the two evils. Sev
“Scholar.’

SCHOLARS: Young men who go to school 1n
order that they may not have to work so hard
after finishing school.

AUTHOR: Famous King of Britain who reigned
before they put the corners on tables. Was also
originator of the “Who was that lady I seen you
with, etc.” joke.

HARE: Phenomenon often found in soup and
other vegetables.

PHENOMENON: Strange occurrence’ which
people do not believe until they see it and doubt it
then.

SILVER LINING: The part of a cloud that the
umbrella salesman sees.

SILENT: With a person of the weaker sex.

SKEPTIC: (See cynic). Also, SKEPTIC PEN-
CIL: Substance made into shape of a pencil for
stopping of blood-flow.

EPISTLE: The wife of an apostle.

TENNIS RACKET: Peculiar noise made by a
tennis.

SPADE: A spade, often called.

RHUBARB: Bloodshot celery.

CELERY: Regular wage paid to workers and
others,

MONOLOGUE: Conversation between husband
and wife and three children.

LEAF: Verb meaning go away. Often impera-
tive.

SENTIMENT: Substance collected at the bot-
tom of a solution. Therefore, SENTIMENTAL
means; Waiting below.

WEARER: More weary.

COP: Interior of an ear of corn, around which
the kernels grow.

ATOM: First man, husband of Eve.

RIOT: What some folks had rather be than
President.

AINT: The sister of a parent or wife of an
ankle. (2) Small creatures noted for their industry,
usually found in the midst of a picnic party.

PENNANTS: What people eat at baseball-games.

VACUUM: The place where the Pope lives.

MENTION: Stately and majestic abode of the
affluent. (Ed. Note: Hot Dog!)

The origin of civilization is in man’s determination
to do nothing for himself which he can get done for
him.—H. C. Bailey.

Another war will be as certain as tomorrow’s sunrise
if an active peace mind, not only of the pious but of the
practical knid, does not intervene—Ramsey McDonald.

In Hoboken we have to struggle against both fail-
ure and success and find them equally exhilarating
and dangerous.—Christopher Morley.

Politics is a farce unless it deals openly and bravely
with questions of work, commerce and finance that
affect men where they live—Prof. John Dewey.

Sea roads are so cheap that New Zealand may be
described as 500 American railway miles from Eng-
land.—Carlyon Bellairs.

The time will come when we will take St. Patrick's
Cathedral and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine,
and make them into museums.—William Z. Foster.

chief officers, is credited with having designed the
Davidson seal. .. . John Knox and Neil McGeachy
of last year’s graduating class, are enjoying im-
mensely, their exp of teaching abroad, the
former being at Beirut, Syria, and the latter at
Khartum, Egypt.

We could be more modest than Dan LaFar?
Bill Flinn is a promising pole-vaulter who will un-
doubtedly make a name for himself in collegiate
track circles. .. . If you want to hear a fascinating
tale of adventure, ask Professor Lilly to relate his
trip through Russia to you. . ; Read the articles in
Who's Who concerning the Davidson faculty mem-
bers represented in this select book, and you will
find some interesting revelations concerning their
accomplishments which are distinguished but not
generally known.

Davidson sport authorities all acquiesce in| the
statement that Grimy George has the best form

, 5f any hurdler yet to appear her. . . Students ap-

- preciate Pro r Fleagle’s unselfish devotion to
their interests, which is also characteristic of many
other faculty members, including Professor Beaty,
Drs. Arbuckle, Harding, and Sentelle, and Profes-
sors Williams, Erwin, and Dr. Porter.

