2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1931

The Dabidgsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Ubescsccuus adivenes Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

i]

Saseecsuccuukdsasuacousaen Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
News Editor
eature Editor
Editor

°
H
7
a
2
=
“s
5
a

~_-Associate Editor
---Associate Editor
Geuscdnksgaacbssudausdsbagauaseus Associate Editor

S-NPZs><ven

BUSINESS STAFF y
WIGON WAY ccsscccdecsesaee Assistant Business Manager
» .-Assistant Business Manager
.-Assistant Business Manager
eeeebuas Subscription Manager

SPP rrr >

BROW Ntisavsciceliisssiecssscclaivescccdscousans Solicitor
W. FALL -Solicitor
M. MANSON. --Solicitor
L. MEBANE --Solicitor
1 RS MORRO W ocsseaicn coos sasels op oos oes coc eccacees! Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB 5
§) Si WIGBY csc caneetatus tSv ce assoc cee soc sang 3s President
D, GG; STEEBENSON sssscccdcasccccsdasusgncsas Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD......-...-.---------- Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD . E, BOYD
N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN
E, O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
I C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 12, 1931

Only when we paint our pictures with our
blood and feed the fires with our bodies do we
reach success.

Canon J. Forbes Mitchell.

SUGGESTIONS

It appears that the usual spring weather, usually
reserved for baseball season, has broken earlier
than usual, May it pass sooner than it came.

Don King and Bob Gorrell have been handling
the student body in good style when it was im-
possible for Goodykoontz to be there.

There are some good lectures scheduled for this
term, including both those of the lecture commit-
tee and those provided by the Y. M. C. A.

A college news service has recently offered a
substantial prize for editorials for and against the
entrance of the United States into the World
Court according to the “Root Protocol.” We won-
der how many editors could, off hand, give an
adequate discussion of the Protocol and its pro-
visions.

Sandlot basketball is claiming the attention of
those who formerly sought the green “C” in cam-
pus football. :

It is merely a suggestion, but it would not hurt
Seniors to drop by the Registrar's office while the
semester is still young and check their hours and
points.

SENSIBLE USE OF THE “Y” ROOMS

During the last four years there has prob-
ably been as much improvemnet in the
equipment of the Y. M. C. A. as any
other one student activity. At the present
time it is divided, roughly, into three parts.

First, and the one which is undoubtedly
used the most, is the reading roo with sev-
eral current magazines and newspapers. The
radio is located in this room. It provides a
handy loafing place for students with a few
minutes to spare, passing to and fro onthe
campus. It is particularly useful to those
who, returning from town at lunch time, do
not wish to go to their dormitories before
first period class. “Amos ’n Andy” generally
draw an audience after supper, or later in
the evening.

Likewise, the recreation room is fre-
quented mainly by those who have a short
time between engagements or classes. Ping-
pong—and there is a new table—and check-
ers claim greatest attention.

Lastly, the social center, located beneath
Eu Hall, is open at any time. In the Senior
Questionnaire it was overwhelmingly ac-

claimed as one of the most needed institu-,

tions on the campus. The majority of stu-
dents do not realize its great convenience
for entertaining guests who are stopping
by for only a few minutes. It is near the
street, and one can be certain of not dis-
turbing any one Ble when going there.
Freshmen are better acquainted with it than
upper-classmen due to the class receptions
held there in the early part of the year. It
is accessible to all.

--Review Editor’

THE NEW CALENDAR

For some time there has been great agita-

| tion for either the revision of the old cal-

endar or the introduction of ‘a new one.
Societies, organizations, and clubs — have
sprung up over night answering the call to
arms in defense of their pet system. Some
of these appear to have been formed merely
for the sake of principle; others evidently
have hope of financial gain if their particu-
lar proposal gains popular favor.

One of these groups spreads propaganda
under the title of “The World Calendar As-
sociation, Inc.” Its platform hases itself
chiefly in an attack against the International
Fixed Calendar. This calendar would intro-
duce thirteen months of twenty-eight days
each, New Year’s Day not being counted in
any month. The World Calendar and the
“Swiss Plan” propose to keep the twelve
month year, but they have a different ar-
rangement within the quarters. The halves
and quarters are equalized with a perpetual
calendar in each.

We can see no good reason for any dras-
tic change. When one begins to criticize

| numerical quantities and systems he is likely

to run afoul of many established customs.

Ieggs still sell by the dozen, not by tens; |

the farthing, pence, shilling, and pound cur-
rency is still uséd in Great Britain.

Finally, any change will work havoc with
such things as birthdays, dates for the ex-
piration of contracts, mortgages, and what
not. It will require the time of experts to
revise and change all parts of the legal
vehicle, as well as placing some more facts
in elementary school arithmetic books. Of
course no one would ever be likely to forget
and use the old calendar after the new had
been introduced!

THE PRODUCTS OF THE COLLEGES

Editor’s Note: The following editorial is printed
from The Charlotte News of February 8, 1931:

American colleges are glutting the mar-

-ket with white-collar applicants for jobs,

handing out too many degrees, becoming
mere machines for producing a certain class
of professionalists that some of these days
are going to be unable to place themselves
in profitable positions of employment. |

All of this is the lamentation of a Mil-
waukee teacher who was recently voicing
such conclusons in a public meeeting of his
city.

There is nothing especially new or start-
ling about the complaint. Criticisms of the
same general character have been accumu-
lating within recent years, but it is worth
looking at if for no other reason than to
appraise properly what a college education
is really intended to be.

A college, after all, is not primarily a
place where a young man can be taught
how to get ahead in life. Except for the
technical and professional schools, it is not
greatly concerned with the earning power
of the people it sends out into the world.

It is the process of living, rather than the
process of earning a living, that a college
deals with. A graduate may become a mil-
lionaire or he may never in his life rise
above a salary of $50 a week; either way,
the college has done its job if the graduate’s
life is richer, fuller and freer because of his
college training.

For if there is one thing on earth which
any college worth its salt does teach, it is
that success in life does not at all depend on
the amount of money one is able to make.
If that coneept is wrong, then Harry Sin-
clair, Babe Ruth and Al Capone are more
llustrious citizens than such a scientist as
R. A. Millikan, for example, or a jurist like
Oliver Wendell Holmes, or a humanitarian
like Jane Addams. But if it is rght—if there
is something in life more important than the
ablity to command a large salary—then
there can never, by any stretch of the
imagination, be so many college graduates
that a Bachelor of Arts degree is worthless.

All of this is rather elementary, of course.
But it is worth repeating, since the com-
plaint of this Milwaukee teacher expresses
a rather common misconception.

It is undoubtedly true that a great many
young people spend four years at college

' without really absorbing the lesson that the
| college is supposed to impart. To them, a

college degree is valuable only as an open
sesame to some good job, and if it fails to
function in that way they have wasted their
time. But to the young man or woman who

has fully experienced the broadening influ-

ence that a college education should give, a
criticism like the one quoted here is the last
word in pointlessness,

What Do You Know
About?

1. Accepted Apologies?

2. Miles in next to nothing?
3. When we come out of it?
4, Freeman Gandhi?

The courtmartial of Gen. Smedley Butler, one
of the bravest and likewise one of the most talk-
ative of all of Uncle’ Sam’s Devil Dogs, was called
off by the Navy Department and the now com-
mander of the Quantico Marines received a severe
reprimand from the Secretary of the Navy Adams
for his ill-chosen words concerning Mussolini of
Italy.

In a talk before a club in Philadelphia, Butler
had said that a “friend” of his had told him that
Mussolini had run over a child and killed it, and
then had kept on, not stopping to investigate. In
other words, a common hit-and-run driver! Mus-
solini immediately denied the statement and de-
manded — and received — an apology from the
United States.

Court martial proceedings for Butler were im-
mediately undertaken. Much to-do was gone
through, and then, as has been said, all proceed-
ings were withdrawn. The outcome was satisfac-
tory to all concerned—Navy, Butler, and Italy—
and was much as had been expected. Butler wrote
a letter to Adams, of the Navy, saying he was
sorry, and Adams severely talked to him, and
that was that. If a court martial had been held,
the reprimand would likely have been the punish-
ment meted out.

One thing in Butler’s favor was his past record,
His bravery has won for him two congregational
medals and a distinguished service medal.

“Women in general frighten me.” — Buddy
Rogers.

Captain Malcolm Campbell, British speed king,

raised the world’s record for the mile last week’

when he ‘piloted his specially built 1250 horsepower
racer over the sands of Daytona Beach, Fla., at
a speed of 245 miles an hour. This broke the old
record of 231 miles an hour, held by the late Sir
Henry Seagrave, by almost 15 miles an hour, And
then not satisfied, the Britisher on the next day
drove a car of 45 cubic inch displacement a mere
95 miles an hour over the same course to establish
a mark for cars of that displacement. Now he re-
turns to England to go into the races. For a thrill,
we suppose!

Several amusing incidents occurred during the
preliminary tests and the trials. On his record-
making trip, the visibility was so poor that the
race officials would not let him open his machine
up, so he had to loaf along at 245 per. In his first
test, his car slipped out of gear just before he
crossed the measured mile and he “coasted” along
at 195 miles to disappoint the crowd which had ex-
pected him to break a record.

He says the car can do 300 miles per hour, but
he has never opened it up. ;

“No one who wears spats can get far in Ameri-
ca.”—Lewis Gannot.

The saying that you can’t keep a good man
down seems to have been taken to mind by the
latest dopsters of when the business depression
will break. They say that in every one of them
that America has had to weather, she has always
come out of it, and has gone on to higher things.
Leaders point out that the general trend has al-
ways been upward, and so it will continue to be.
Business in the United States has advanced at the
rate of seven per cent per year over a period of
the last fifty years. And so it will continue.

All very interesting. But when?

“Tradition wears a snowy beard; romance is
always young.”—John Greenleaf Whittier.

Mahatma Gandhi, the sixty-five year old, ninety-
five pound, man who is today causing Great
Britain all kinds of worry by simply telling the
people of India to “do nothing” has been released
from prison after eight months confinement, and
has gone out into the world again to continue his
program of non-cooperation and non-violence.
Jailed for making salt in direct voilation of the
law forbidding its manufacture, Grandhi neverthe-
less had just as much influence on his followers
there as he had when he was free to move around
as he pleased. '

Upon his release, he said that he expected to be
back in about two months. He seemed to like the
quiet and seclusion of his cell, and thought it unjust
that he should be released while thousands of
others were held in the political jails of India by
the English. He did not give any plan for_his
actions later, except that he would continue his
previous policy.

New York—(IP)—Defining a university as “an
institution of higher learning where scholars of
high competence guide students, who have ‘been
prepared by a liberal education, into advanced
studies, with the aid of libraries, laboratories and
seminars,” Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president
of Columbia University, speaking before the Asso-
ciate Alumni of Barnard College here declared that
there are only eight universities in the United
States, and only eight others bearing the name

which in some degree carry on the activities of a
real university.

MUSINGS 9 “e
_,MATADOR._

< L — —=
Ts VEREEN of, oa

Among every-day American institutions that call
for a great deal of comment these days is the
restaurant. It is an important factor in our lives in
that it concerns us all day long. It should concern
us only three times a day but the after-effects,
i, e, indigestion, broken glass, and hunger, keep
the eating places uppermost in our minds. Cafes
may be divided into several classes. The first is
the fundamental and ground restaurant and is
usually identified by the so-called reasonableness
of the rates. You can eat dirt cheap at these places,
although you really shouldn’t eat dirt at any price.
However, my impression is that there is nothing
better than good clean dirt. I never feel right all
day unless I get up in the morning, take a cold .
shower, and run out and eat a big handfull of dirt.
I went into a’railway station restaurant once and
saw the kitchen. In the corner stood a large boiler
so I asked the man if that was a locomotive boiler
there to make it tender, after which I made no
further inquiries into the artillery lying about; and
which has no bearing on our subject. The second
class of restaurants is where you go _intoone
hungry and come out hungry and broke. The price
is higher and the food smaller. If a waiter asks
you after the meal how you found the steak tell
him you just moved the potato and there it was.
(That is, if they give you a potato.) In these res-
taurants, you will find that the food is the same,
although camouflaged and diminished, and the
waiters still stick their thumbs in your soup just
the same as in cheaper places (although they
may have better thumbs.) In the more efficient
cafes they are putting salt on the waiters thumbs
so as to save the extra work on the part of the
cook.

The third class should really not be termed a
restaurant at all but a place for people to stay who
can’t sleep and can’t find anything else to do. This
is the night-club. It is an insult to the management
and the performer when you ask for something to
eat in a night-club. I heard of one man who went
in one and asked for something to eat so he
wouldn’t have to watch the performance; and the
waiter he asked didn’t even know what he was
talking about. Said to please talk English or talk
on his hands at least. The main feature about
these places is the tablecloths. They have a cover
charge which you pay in order to get your pencil.
You then sit down and write on the tablecloth
until you get sleepy; then you get up and try
to walk home before you get unsleepy and you
walk so fast you wake up and have to come back
and write on the tablecloth some more. This keeps
up until daylight when the restaurant closes be-
cause they are afraid some old-fashioned person
will ask for breakfast if they stay open.

The only way to avoid these evils is for us to
quit eating—or get a wife to cook for you; it all
amounts to the same thing. I suggest that we eat
smaller amounts of food every day until we have
stopped altogether, Eating is only a habit anyway
and a bad one at that. Eaters are of two types, the
soupers and the dunkers. A dunker’s idea of help-
lessness is a doughnut without a cup of coffee; a
dunker will starve to death under that trying con-
dition. Now, soupers are really musicians at heart.
I once knew a bunch of soupers that formed what
was then known as the Sixteen Soup Syncopaters.
They used to practice over the fire house every
night but they have grown famous now and
radio artists; the leader started them to playing by
saying “Alley soup!” and they all dove into the
soup and harmonized—the bass players having
bigger spoons than the others. They are now
known as “Rudy Vallee and his Oughtastop.”

Considerable furore has been cast into the blush-
ing ranks of the soupers by the discovering of
what is commonly referred to as alphabet soup.
According, to wisecrackers, soupers, when par-
taking of alphabet soup, must know their ABC’S,
mind their P’s and Q’s and those of English de-
scent must waste valuable time dropping their H’s.
For those who want to mind their Q’s an invention
has been made to aid them in their minding; name-
ly, the cuestick—and it has proved a great aid.
Now, if you want to get off a good one, the next
time your host serves you alphabet soup, when
you have finished, say: “I enjoyed my soup—
A to Z!” You might even laugh heartily as you
say it. Your host, however, will be dumb and
probably say, “ ‘Aid to see’ what?” but I can’t take
any responsibility for your host—it is all I can do
to look after your soup.

Citing the fact that there are several hundred
universities listed in the World Almanac, the pres-
ident said it was all “nonsense,” and arose largely
from the loose use of the terms college and uni-
versity.

New York and Pennsylvania protect the word
“college,” he said, but it is possible in many other
states to have a “College of Horeshoeing” if one
so desires, and the term “university” is protected
in no state in the country.

The university should be a “power house of
wisdom,” he said. He did not name any univer-

sities or colleges in his talk. 4
‘.
