THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

| WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK | Alumni Marriages | | Alumni Death | | Alumni Personals
Every Davidson alumnus has his own} the Presbyterians won because of sheer Mcllwaine-Blakeney Dr. Alexander Martin, ’95 In giving a list of Davidson alumni now
opinion about Davidson College’s football] courage and alertness. Battered and

teams, and from all that has been said to the
Alumni Secretary in private conversations
and in letters, it is a mighty fine opinion, and
one of which the college is proud. But the
opinion of impartial observers, men who have
never been to Davidson but have been in
contact with the Davidson football team as
news writers, brings an even greater pride
to the hearts of Davidson:

In the following paragraphs quotations from
some of these men are going to be given.
Many are omitted, through lack of space,
and because some of them have not been
clipped from a dozen papers that daily come
to the alumini office. When a two-foot stack
of papers that have been accumulated are
looked over much additional comment can
be added to that given below.

Three different alumni last week sent to
Davidson a clipping of an article written by
Sam Butz, sports’ editor of the Jacksonville
(Fla.) Times-Union, who headed his column
on October 21st with the following:

“They’re thinking seriously of chang-
ing the name of the Davidson football
team from Wildcats to Giant Killers or
at least Giant Tamers.

“For years now Davidson, a small North
Carolina school, has been battling against
larger institutions with a large measure of
success. The Wildcats don’t win all of their
games, not by a long shot, but almost every
season they're able to come through with a
surprise victory which may spoil .the entire
campaign for a more highly regarded rival.

“Florida’s acquaintance with Davidson
dates back to 1927, when the Wildcats
came down to Gainesville and handed
the Gators a 12 to 0 defeat in the second
game of the Fall. Monk Younger’s outfit
had a well developed offense, full of
spinners and other smooth working
plays which handed the Gators, who had
been brought along slower in view of
supposedly harder games to come later,
a distinctly unpleasant shock. Florida
went on to have a very good year, but
that loss to Davidson at the outset prac-
tically spoiled everything.

“The next year Davidson Wasn’t so strong,
but in 1929 the Wildcats knocked over N. C.
State 13 to 0 and trimmed Duke 13 to 12.
And last Fall they repeated on State, 12 to
0, and followed with a victory over the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, 7 to 6.

“This year the Wildcats are wildcat-
ting right along. They slipped up against
North Carolina State, but went on to
wallop Washington and Lee. Then last
Saturday they held Duke to a scoreless
tie, just when Duke was supposed to be
going somewhere after an upset of Vil-
lanova. :
“Davidson may not win any championship,

but it hasn’t been asked to fill any “warm-
up” dates on many schedules in recent years,
Florida, in particular, hasn’t asked for any
more since 1927.”

One of the best recently came from the
Raleigh bureau of The Greensboro Daily
News, and is as follows:

“The boys (N. C. State) have one re-
markably bright spot in a record of
blemishes this fall—they beat Davidson.
And that is a feat no matter whether
the job be done by Southern California,
Notre Dame, or even Georgia.”

After the N. C. State contest, The Con-
cord Tribune said that “few in the stands
will forget the magnificence of the second-
half comeback of the Presbyterians. The
famous Wildcat fighting spirit was apparent
for the first time shortly after the opening
of the period...”

This same paper declared after Davidson's
victory over Washington and Lee:

“Little Davidson provided the week-
end thrill. Continuing their inspired play
that featured their last half rally against
N. C. State the Wildcats startled the
football world with a 7-0 victory over
Washington and Lee in as courageous
an exhibition as was ever seen on a
gridiron. ...

“Doped to lose by several touchdowns,

bruised, the Wildcats played their hearts
out after scoring their touchdown, at-
taining magnificent heights in their stub-
born defense against the Virginians.”

The Associated Press writer wrote after
the Davidson victory over Washington and
Lee that “Davidson, by defeating W. & L.
7 to 0, won the right to wear the crown
with the brightest for at
week.”

jewels least a

The Fayetteville Observer wrote its mus-
ings about the same game as follows:

“It remained for scrappy little David-
son to bring honor and glory to the Old
North State Saturday by socking it to
Washington and Lee, 7-0. Little David-
son reminds us of Little David and Bob
Fitzsimmons, always itching for some
Goliath to bean and always ready to tell
the world the bigger they are the harder
they fall... .

“Ernest Milton, the special correspon-
dent from the Davidson News Bureau
who wrote the game up for Sunday pa-
pers, forces us to disagree with him
when he says the Wildcats scrapped and
fought as they never scrapped and
fought before. Ernest ought to read the
glorious history of Davidson football
teams and he will find that something
the Wildcats do nothing better than is
to upset the dope bucket.

“Fighting and scrapping have been in-

herent in Davidson teams since we :re-

member. The word ‘spirit’ has been over
worked, but Davidson has not overwork-
ed the potentialities of a fighting heart.”

Frank spencer, sports editor of The Win-
stgn-Salem Journal chimed in with “Little
Davidson, with a team given very little
chance to ga, places this year, pulled the big
surprise of the entire South Saturday when
they beat back a powerful Washington and
L.ee team, 7-0,

“Monk Younger and Tex Tilson are
truly miracle men. We will certainly not
be surprised at anything Monk and Tex
do from now on.”

Before Davidson played V. P. I., A. J.
McKevlin, sports scrivener of The Ra-
leigh News and Observer, gave some of
the characteristics of the Davidson team
when he wrote, “Davidson, a habitual
upsetter of the dope, will have to turn
in another of its typically Davidson per-
formances if it is to come back from
Blacksburg with a victory over the
Poly team of great potential power.”

The Gastonia Gazette’s comments after
the V. P. I. struggle were:

“They (Davidson) played their hearts
out against V. P. I in the first three
quarters and were simply overpowered
by superior numbers and weight in the
fourth quarter when three touchdowns
were piled up against them, after lead-
ing the Gobblers, 6 to 0, for the better
part of the game.”

The Fayetteville Observer likewise had
comment before the game in which the
writer observed that “Davidson has an in-

(Continued on page 6)

1

Rev. William A. McIlwaine, 1915 graduate
of Davidson, and now a missionary to Japan,
was married on September 10 to Miss Bess
Martin Blakeney, of Marugame, Japan. The
ceremony was performed at a private home in
Karuizawa, Japan. Rev>W. B. McIlwaine, ’84,
of Kochi, Japan, father of the groom, assisted
in performing the ceremony.

Mrs. Mcellwaine also a missionary to
Japan and for several years she was stationed
at Nagoya. For the past several months, how-
ever, she has been at Shikoku, Japan. Mr. and
Mrs. McIlwaine are now at home at Nagoya.

is

Blue-Latimer

Richard E. Blue, who graduated from David-
son in 1924 and is now a resident of Charlotte,
and Miss Mary Wright Latimer, of Washing-
ton, Ga., were married at the home of the bride
mn October 17th. Cecil Dew, ’22, brother of the
groom, was best man. Mr. Blue became con-
nected with the American Trust Company after
he completed a master’s degree at Davidson,
nd has been with that concern ever since.
Mr. and Mrs. Blue are now at home in Char-
lotte

Bernhardt-Alexander

John Christian Bernhardt, of Lenoir, a 1927
graduate of Davidson, and Miss Jean Thorn-
well Alexander, of Morganton, were married
at the First Presbyterian Church in Morganton
mn October 14th. Geo. H. Bernhardt, '16, of
Lenoir, brother of hte groom, was best man,
‘nd among his groomsmen were Frank L.
Wyche, ’27, of Petersburg, Va.; Robert B. Mc-
Connell, ’27, of Asheville; Gardner H. Green,
29, of New York, and English McGeachey, ’29,
of Decatur, Ga.

Mrs. Bernhardt is a graduate of Agnes Scott.
Since. graduation, Mr. Bernhardt has been as-
sociated with the Bernhardt Furniture Company,
of Lenoir. Mr. and Mrs. Bernhardt are now at
home in Lenoir. :

Douglass-Garrett

Edwin Latimer Douglass, of Augusta, Ga.,
who graduated from Davidson in 1928, and Miss
Mildred Garrett, also of Augusta, were mar-
ried in the First Baptist Church of that city
on October 15th. No details have been obtained.
Since his, graduation, Mr. Douglass has been
connected with the Augusta Hardwood Com-
yany. Mr. and Mrs. Douglass are now at home
in Augusta.

Allison-Atkins
Samuel Joseph Allison, of Glade Spring, Va:,
and a 1929 graduate of Davidson, was married
on October 10th to Miss Eleanor Countiss At-
kins, of Saltville, Ga., the ceremony being per-
formed at Madam Russell Church, at Saltville.
No details have been obtained. After his gradua-

NOTICE

Have Your Shoes Rebuilt
at the

DAVIDSON SHOE
SHOP
Soles 85c and $1.00

Give us a trial
Cc. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

lege Magazines, Catalogs,
i Z Nothing too large
Printing

6,000 Square Feet of

Engraved Cards and Invitations.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,

or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

+

Rey. Alexander Martin, D.D., 1895 graduate
of Davidson and a resident of Rock Hill, S. C.,
died in Lowrance Hospital, Mooresville, last
Saturday night, October 24th. Dr. Martin had
been a patient at the Mooresville hospital for
some time, following his continued illness in
Rock Hill, which caused his resignation some
months ago as pastor of the Oakland Presby-
terian Church in that city. He was 60 years
of age. ;
Following his graduation here, he returned to
obtain his;master of arts degree and later re-
ceived his bachelor of divinity degree from Co-
lumbia Theological Seminary, then located at
Columbia, S. C. He served as pastor of the
Westminster Presbyterian Church in Charlotte,
and later became pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church at Rock Hill. Thirteen years ago
the Oakland. Presbyterian Church in that city
Was organized, and he was the first and only
pastor until his recent. resignation. He was
then made pastor emeritus.

The degree of. doctor ea was con-

ferred upon him by Presbyteriah College of
South Carolina.

Davidson Alumni to Be
Especially Considered

According to advices received from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina athletic authorities,
alumni of Davidson College, who live in this
state, are going to have an opportunity to get
reserved seats in a section on the 50-yard line
when the Wildcats go to Chapel Hill to meet
the Carolina cleven on November 14th

Within a few days every Davidson alumnus
in North Carolina, numbering approximately
2,000, will receive a special invitation from Uni-
versity officials, inviting them to this contest.
The letter will be accompanied by an applica-
tion blank for tickets in this special section.

The Davidson alumni office has co-operated
with the University officials in this effort to
centralize the alumni at the game, and last week
addressed envelopes to Davidson alumni for the
Carolina authorities.

tion Mr. Allison attended the Wharton Busi-
ness School at Philadelphia, and then returned
to his home in Glade Spring. Mr. and Mrs.
Allison are at home in Glade Spring.

@
A. Gerskov — The Tailor

SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 50c Pressed 25c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

~

can be done.

ek NNN
= =

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious

to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C. =
STRUM

preparing forthe ministry, the name of Wm. C.
Alexander, ’27,\who is completing his third
year at Erskine Theological Seminary, was
omitted through error. The name of T. H.
Hamilton, '27, should also be added to the list.
He is taking graduate work at Union Theolog-
ical Seminary, Richmond, Va., after graduating
from that institution last June.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, was a speaker
this week before the Seventh District meeting
of the North Carolina’ Medical Society when
it met in Albemarle.

~

Friends will regret to learn that the wife
of Coach W. M. Fetzer, ’06, of William-and
Mary College, Williamsburg, Va., will be in
the hospital for several months because of in-
juries sustained in an automobile accident on
October 3rd.

Rev. John W. Crinkley, ’27, is doing evangel-
istic work and is now assisting in services at
Willow Springs, N. C. Rev. S. L. Cathey, ’95,
pastor at Loray, is conducting services at the
Second Presbyterian Church in Concord.

Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, pastor at New Bern,
heads an important committee of the Synod of
North Carolina to investigate possible ways of
making the Synod a self-entertaining body.

W. B. Buckner, ’30, is now at Tulane Med-
ical School nad is located at 7008 Vimple St.,
New Orleans, La.

l.. H. Martin, ’24, who has been in Germany
for several years, is now in this country and
is at his home in Lenoir.

Engagement

“Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Wooten, of Atlanta, Ga.,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Margaret, to Richard Hunt MacMillan, also of
Atlanta, the wedding to be solemnized in No-
vember.” Mr. MacMillan is a 1924 graduate of
Davidson, and since his graduation he has
worked in various cities of the South, among
them heing Charlotte. At present he is located
in Atlanta.

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobaccos
Sundries

Hot Chocolate — Coffee

