THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1931

5

The Yow! Reviewed

Our historians can assure us of the fact
that the good year 1929 is memorable for
at least two important events. There came
the depression and there came the Vor.
There is no desire to hint that these two
occurrences are in any way connected and
the present reviewer believes that one finds
here an additional reason for the conviction
that the law of cause and effect does not
operate. A reference to ancient history has
been made and it is necessary to state that
our stately college campus has in recent
times witnessed a scene which might inter-
est A. Conan Doyle and McDougall. A
magazine bearing the name of the “Chame-
leon” for several reasons politely committed
Hara-Kiri and is now wandering along the
banks of the river Lethe and searching for
a literary Elysium. In place of the dignified
“Chameleon” of such decorous behavior, we
have in its place the more vigorous Yow.
“The king is dead. Long live the king.”

There seems to be no doubt that the Yow!
is a more popular magazine than its predeces-
sor. Surely, such popularity must be deserved
and with an interest which combines the de-.
tective attributes of Sherlock Holmes and
the destructive mania of a Freshman theme
reader, the reviewer attacks this second edi-
tion of our own production which now en-
ters the field of the Harvard Lampoon, the
Cornell Widow, the Virginia Reel and thus
stands respectfully near Life and Judge.

The genial wildcats which adorn the deco-
rative scheme of each page are indicative
of the entirely humorous but the generous
attitude of the magazine. The wildcat at
‘_. times may be dangerous but he is, at least
_ within these pages, not on a rampage. It is
‘an old adage that every humorist in time
takes an acid bath and becomes a cynic and
that. more than one person has laughed that
he might not become mad. It is, therefore,
with distinct’ pleasure that one can report
that the present issue has nothing inde-
corous, boorish or coarse and therefore noth-
ing offensive,

While a small percentage of the witticisms
is older than the oldest inhabitant of the vil-
lage and has perhaps been relished as long
as the memory of man runneth not to the
contrary, it is delightful to state that some
of these are as fresh and captiyating as a
new jest always is. It is an excellent point
that originality has. been stressed and that
no heavy borrowing has been made on the
Columns of other college humorous maga-
zines. It has been stated that all literature
has but seven plots and but eleven humorous
situations. Much credit should be given the
Yowl in that it did not overstress the no-
toriously funny combination ‘of the mother-
in-law, the Maggie-Jiggs motivation, the
avarice of the Sotchman, the pugnaciousness
of the Irish, the eccentricities of the Semitics,
the love of ease of the sons of Hams—and

. the absent-mindedness of the Herr Professo-.
Indeed, much gratefulness is due the per-
spicacious editors that the scholars and the
pedants escaped with comparatively few cas-
ualties when the Game Laws give March as
an open season.

The numerous short verses vary much in
quality but Mr. McBride keeps a consistent
gradé of cleverness. One might remember
that all roads do not lead to Wit and that
it is easy to fall into the slough of Parody
or the muddy path of Pun. A humorous
versifier is not made in a day but sugges-
tions might come from the type of work
one sees in Vanity Fair, the New Yorker,
or even Hard Lines by Ogden Nash. Dor-
othy Parker is not bad at society verse and
the work of Austin Dobson or Thomas Hood
is justly famous.

One of the most successful parts of this
issue is that portion devoted to art work.
Mr. Pope, Mr. Ragin and Mr. McBride
have an originality which should take them
far in future work. There is a finish and a
correctness in Mr. Henley’s art which can
be utilized for the more sophisticated scenes,
Mr. Bell has a quaintness of the Mid-Vic-
torian wood-cut and should be more gen-
erous in his offerings. The student who
signs himself “B. C.” keeps a high level of
performance,

The prose work has such variegated ma-
terial as sketches, plays, short stories, letters
—and miscellania, The ones who carry oft
the honors in this work are Messrs, McCall,
Bell, Ragin, Whitehead and Matthews. Space
does not permit a discussion of these selec-
tions but the reviewer refers you to the
March issue. Place the Yow! on your parallel
reading list.

The most gratifying point is that David-
son still has an outlet for talent and that she
has produced a publication of which she
need not be ashamed. The major credit goes
to Mr, W. C. Ragin, Jr., who has sturtured
the idea of such a publication through the

Glee Club Gives Concert

Before Newton Audience

Davidson Musical Organization

Presents Unusual and Varied

Program in Neighboring
Town

Last Friday the Davidson Glee Club gave
a concert in Newton, N. C. The program
was very enjoyable and met with ‘vonder-
ful success. There was a large audience,
consisting of crowds from Newton and from
the ‘surrounding towns, especially Hickory
and Lincolnton.

Besides the usual program, there was also
the additional number of a skit, prepared
by Horace Erwin. This concert, which was
the second which has been given by our
Glee Club this spring, gave sufficient evi-
dence of the fact that Davidson has indeed
a very talented group of singers. The pro-
gram is a varied one, and is always en-
joyed by any type of audience.

The Glee Club is making plans for other
trips this spring, including one to Hickory,
N. C,, and one to Converse College, Spar-
tanburg, S. C.

Faculty Declines to
Give Girls Diplomas

Davidson College is not yet ready to give
diplomas to girls. This was decided by the
Davidson faculty last week, following a con-
sideration of the resolution passed by the
Board of Trustees at its meeting in Feb-
ruary. The resolution called attention to the
faculty to a motion passed in 1925, sanction-
ing the giving of diplomas upon the ap:
proval of the faculty, bat which had, ac-
cording to the resolution, apparently been
tabled.

The action taken at the regular faculty
meeting was that the “faculty feels that it

seven lean months of indifference and even
partial opposition and has kept the material
of a consistently high grade.

Henry T, Lilly.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Augusta, Ga.—(IP)—Lecturing to an au-
dience at his winter home here, Professor
William Lyon Phelps, of Yale University,
declared recently that never in history has
literature “been so consistently filthy and
rotten as it is today.”

This state of literature, he said, is partly
offset by the purity of popular songs. These
modern musical offerings, he said, were

SUNDAY VESPER
(Continued from page 1)
go, we can’t get along without God's loving
care and avenging arm.”

Dr. Nabors asserted that a man’s religion
vitally affects every person in the com-
munity in which he lives. He considered the
benefiting influence that clean, upright boys
have over others on the carpus, and the
demoralizing effect the careless type of boy
has on others. He brought out forcefully
that people either build up or tear down.

The speaker focused the attention of the
audience to the wonderful compassion of the
Lord, proven by his willingness’ to forgive
the Ninevehites after their repentance, and
as his final thought claimed that the real
miracle of the book of Jonah is not the
story of the whale, but the ever abiding
mercy of the loving Father.

is inadvisable to proceed with the program
suggested by the trustees.” Following a de-
cided vote in favor of continuing the pres-
ent policy, a committee was appointed to
frame a suitable reply to the trustees at
their next meeting in June.

It was not the idea of the trustees to

\smake Davidson co-educational when the mo-

tion was passed. For many years Davidson
has had a number of young women as stu-
dents, some of them going three years to
Davidson and then to some other institution
to take their final year and get their de-
gree, Only girls who reside in Davidson are
allowed this privilege, as it riow stands, and
at no time in the history of Davidson has
the total enrollment of young ladies exceeded
ten.

stone sack McLean and Smith are doing

never so clean as ‘they are now, and are
growing more puritanical and prudish all
the time.

Today, he said, is an age of biography,
but writers thereof are more prone to select
“victims” than “subjects.”

Berkeley, Calif—(I1P)—Edgar (Rip)
Miller, All-American guard on the famous
“Four Horsemen” eleven at Notre Dame in
1924, has been named head football coach
at the U. S. Naval Academy, succeeding
Bill Ingram, who is coming here to replace
Nibs Price as head mentor of the Univer-
sity of California gridders.

MANY MEN
(Contnued from page 3)
stép position, Morris, McLemore
Strange are showing up well. .
Competition for infield positions is keen,
and at present Coach Laird is unable to say
what men are showing up best. At the key-

and

good work, while Armstead, Evans, McClin-
tock, and Atfexander are alternating in cov-
ering second base. Smyre, Hardy and Casali
are trying out for shortstop position, while
Blanton and Grant are on the hot .corner,

Many ‘aspirants for the outfield positions
are having keen competition, and Wilson and
Harrington appear to be showing best fori.
The first game of the season will be played
against Mt. Pleasant Collegiate Institute on
March 26, and Coach Laird expects to have
his team well rounded out by that date.

O. D. K. CONVENTION
(Continued from page 1)
FRIDAY, MARCH 6
9:30 Ay M.—Business Session, Red Room,

Lafayette Hotel.

President G. lL. Scramm, presiding.
Roll Call of Delegates. (Each delegate is
expected to present at this time a 200.
word report of the activities of his circle
for the past two years.)

Report of National President.

Report of Executive Secretary.

Col. W. R. Scott to Head
Anniston R. O. T. C. Camp

Has Commanded Camp of Eight
Hundred College Students for
Last Two Years

Lieutenant Colonel William R. Scott, com-
mandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C. de-
partment, has received official notice that
he has been appointed camp commander of
Fort McClellan R, O. T. C. summer camp
near Anniston, Ala. Further significance is
attached to this honor for. this is the third
consecutive year that Colonel Scott has re-
ceived this summer assignment in the Fourth
Corps Area. The number of students from
colleges and tiniversities that have military
units approximate 800. This camp deals with
infantry preparation alone. Colonel Scott has
already received considerable information
from the Fourth Corps headquarters and is
beginning preparation to handle the man un-
der his supervision. The dates of encamp-
ment are June 10-July 20.

Recommendations from the General Coun-
cil.

Presentation of distinguished guests.
Appointment of committees.

330 P. M.-Committee meetings.

~

7:00 P. M.—Formal Dinner Reception, Gold
Room, Cafayette Hotel.
Addresses by the National President and
certain selected visiting delegates.

SATURDAY, MARCH 7

:30 A. M.—Final Business Session,

Room, Lafayette Hotel.

Reports of Committees.

Unfinished Business.

Election of Officers.

Adjournment.

12:00 M.—Luneheon for National Officers
and Delegates, Red Room, Lafayette Ho-
tel. Others are invited to attend this lunch-
con, for which tickets may be procured at
the registration desk.

3:30 P. M.—Tour of the Blue Grass Coun-
try with members of the Kentucky Mu
Circle as hosts.

Red

>

© 1931, Liocerr & Myzas Tosacco Co.

©:

——

Which is wider, the gate or the

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU

BUT

MILDER...AND
BETTER TASTE

YOUR TASTE /e//s fhe Truth/

opening? Maybe your eyes
fooled you that time.

