BASKETBALL 4
sean ¢ Sd CAROLINA TO
AGAINS aaa FOLLOW STATE
STATE. oa ON THE
IN CHARLOTTE COURTS
_ “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 8, 1931

No. 14

Bishop Penick Speaks To
Vesper Audience About
Threefold Love of God

Charlotte Bishop Gives Stirring
Message to Large Group of
Students in Sunday Service

LECTURES ON WILL

Advises Students Not to be Chain-
Store Men

Bishop E. A. Penick, of Charlotte, who
is well known by Davidson men because
of his splendid addresses on former visits
delivered, as usual, a most interesting and
inspiring message to those assembled for Y
vespers last Sunday evening.

In his introduction he quoted from a
Bishop's article in the Atlantic Monthly,
“Let us go back to fundamentals.” In the
development of this theme, Bishop Penick
pointed out the unstableness of reasoning in
the Christian’s mind, referring to a verse in
John in which Christ told His disciples He
was going, but would return. “The question,
‘When will He return?’ should cause per-
plexity in the mind of the real Christian,”
declared the speaker. It is well to beware
of cock-suredness of religious faith whether
it be in the layman or in the minister. The
Bishop continued that in this sea of doubt,
it was best to “identify our wills with a
power stronger than evil—this is God.”

During the latter part of the message, he
stated that “life is a. quest,” and that after
we attain what we are after, we are not
satisfied. “What shall we say,” he went on,
“to the pilgrim on the road to Truth?” Here
he outlined three vital points for him to
follow, namely, intellectuality, self-respect,
moral courage, and simplicity of faith.

Under the first point, Bishop Penick ex-
plained that it was the Savior Himself who
added the “mind” to the verse found in the
Old and New Testaments, “Love the Lord
thy God with all thy ‘heart.” Under the sec-
ond, he declared that all of us are more and
more becoming ‘“‘chain-store men,” and are
inclined to follow the crowd in dur think-
ing; and that we detest the idea of being
“marked men.”

In his third point to the pilgrim, the speak-
er gave a definition of faith which included
first an assumption, second an experiment,
and third a discovery.

In conclusion the Bishop went on to say
that the above characteristics suffer in the
face of worldly things, but that we must
have courage and face the obstacles squarely.

Dr. Hood Speaks at
Psychology Meeting

Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychology
department of Davidson College, recently
attended a meeting of the American Psy-
chological Association at Des Moines, Iowa,
on December 28-30. Dr. Hood, who is con-
sidered to be one of the leading psychologists
of the country, and who is an author of
several books, read a paper before the con-
vention and took part in a round-table dis-
cussion of problems of general psychology.

Dr. Hood left Davidson on December 23,
spent several days in New York City, joined
the New York delegation from Princeton,
Columbia, and Yale, then went with that
delegation to Des Moines.

There were eight phases of psychology
discussed: General psychology, educational
psychology, experimental psychology, men-
tal tests, animal psychology, child psychol-
ogy, clinical psychology, and aesthetic psy-
chology. However, Dr. Hood stated that the
phase in which he was most interested was
abnormal psychology. In this part of the
program such subjects as the effect of con-
scious wish upon dreams, and physical and
mental traits of individuals susceptible to
hypnosis were discussed. It was brought out
in this connection that there is a difference
in the blood content of neurotic as com-
pared with non-netrotic persons.

An interesting paper was also read on the
subject of an experiment being | conducted
upon the 7,000 students at the State Uni-
vesity of Washington. This experiment is

(Continued on page 6)

Cats Begin Season
in Tonight’s Game

Monk Younger’s new Wildcat quintet will
receive its baptism of fire tonight against
the Red Terrors from-State College at the
Central High School gym in Charlotte at
8 o’clock, and then again on Saturday night

they will battle the Tar Heels at the Arm- |

ory, and next Wednesday Erskine will be

met here. This game officially opens the+

Wildcats’ basketball season and will in all
likelihood be one of the stiffest opponents
on the card. The Red Terrors have always
boasted of a fine ‘quintet and from time to
time have had championship teams, and this
year, with five veterans back, State has al-
ready made an auspicious start toward an-
other championship team.

Coach Younger has been drilling his squad |

strenuously since the holidays in order to

whip them into shape for this opening test. |

Younger has three dependable veterans

around whom he is building his attack, Rusk, |
Goodson, and Proctor. Rusk has been moved |

from center to forward this year in order
to make use of the extra height of “Skinny”

Pierce, a Sophomore, for the genter posi- |
tion. Martin, from last year’s squad, seems |

to be Younger’s choice for the other for-
ward position, Captain Goodson and Proc-
tor can take care of the guarding in good
style. This will give Davidson one of the
tallest teams in the state and will certainly
outreach last year’s five, with every man
around six feet, and three a little beyond
that mark.

To meet these Wildcats, State will bring
a little more experienced squad, as well as
one that has already been up against stiff
opposition this year and came out victorious.
A strongeVillanova quintet fell before the
onslaught of the Red Terrors in the middle
of December as the Carolina five topped
their score by 11 points. Of the five veter-
ans returning, four, Gammon, A}kinson,
Morgan and Rose, constitute the starting
team, together with a Sophomore, Clark.

On Saturday night the Wildcats will again
take on a strong foe when they play the
Tar Heels in the Charlotte Armory. This

is the first time the Wildcats have used the |

Armory and it is expected that the extra
seating capacity will be needed, as present
indications point toward a large crowd. Car-
olina and Davidson have always packed them
in pretty thick for the two never fail to
give each other a ferocious scrap. The ‘Tar
Heels are not expected to present as strong

an array as State, but even at that they can |

be plenty good. Carolina is still probably
mindful of their last engagement in Char-
lotte with the Wildcats when the ’Cats nosed
them out in a tightly played match by the
score of 22-20, and will be out for revenge.

Next week Erskine, S. I. A. A. champs
of last year, will invade the Davidson cam-
pus in an effort to make it two straight over
the Wildcats, as they administered a severe
lacing to them last year. This game is sched-
uled for Wednesday night at the Davidson
gym and will probably be the last engage-
ment before the exam period.

Lawrence, Kan.—(IP)—But seven of
1,705 women students at the University of
Kansas are studying to be home-makers, ac-
cording to a recent survey of the university
undergraduate body. Teaching school is the |
aim of 879 of them. |

Eighty-four intend to take up journalism; |
80 are planning to be nurses; 60 hope to be |
business women; 16 will take up the prac- |
tice of medicine, and 15 will practice law.

Another 123 are undecided and 136 did not |
answer the questions of the registrar.

French Course
Continued

French six, scheduled in the cata-
logue for the first semester only,
will be continued through the |
second semester. It will consist of
reading of contemporary novels and
plays. Those planning to register,
who have not yet reported, are re-
quested to see Dr. Watts before the
examination period.

| “Ye Yowl” to Appear
| Soon

Daidson’s youngest yearling, Ye
Yowl, is expected to make its second
|| appearance on the campus around
the first of February unless delayed
| by the exam period according to
|| present plans of the staff.
| The mid-year issue will be of a rus-
tic nature under title of the “Farm
Number” and will be more profuse-
ly illustrated by drawings of the art
staff. The magazine will bear the
same cover design of red and black,
and will be of the same size as the
Fall edition.

_ Since the decision of the Student
| Body: to have a humorous rather
than a literary magazine, it was
planned to have the Yowl appear
three times each year. The Fall
issue came out in late November.

“The Editor.”

Bob Gorrell is El cted
1931 Football Manager

At a meeting of the football lettermen on

|Monday, December 15,. Bob Gorrell was.

‘elected as varsity manager for the coming
lyear and Jack McKinnon was elected as
| Freshman manager, These two men were the
jonly men in the Junior class out for the
|managership since Spencer McCallie, the
other candidate, did not return to school
jthis year.

| Both of these men are leaders on the cam-
|pus in various lines. Gorrell is of Winston-
Salem, N. C., one of the vice-presidents of
{the student body, is a member of the Beaver
/Club and was president of that body during
his Sophomore year, is a member of the
Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and is
|manager of the Wildcat Handbook, McKin-
non is from Jacksonville, Fla., is a member
of the Ministerial Band, a member of the
|“Y" Board of Control, and is a member of
\the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.
It was decided to allow the Sophomore
|managers, Allen Mebane, Arthur Ross, Al
|Grant, and Bill Lee, to remain out until the
lelection at the end of football season next
‘year. A certain number of Freshmen will
|be kept as managers next fall.

Preceding this election there was a ban-
quet held for the football men, at which
jtime all the players were given Christmas
| presents. This banquet was held on Decem-
jber 9,
|

Rhodes Scholarship
Is Awarded To Rusk

| Word was officially received on the night
|of December 14 that Dean Rusk had been
jawarded the Rhodes Scholarship, one of
| four conferred by the Southeastern Com-
| mittee ‘in Atlanta, and had been confirmed
as a candidate by the national organization
\in Swarthmore, Pa. Rusk is a member of
|the class of 1931, he is a candidate for
la diploma this year and expects to enter
| Oxford next fall.

| His home is in Atlanta, Ga. His father is
Rev. R. H. Rusk, Davidson ’94. While liv-
ing in the Georgia capital Rusk attended
Boys’ High where he won distinction as
president of the Senior class, editor of the
annual, colonel of the Atlanta Cadet High
School Regiment, editor of the Atlanta
| Journal school section, honor roll for four
jyears, associate editor of “The Tattler,” and
|an interscholastic debater for three years.
| After entering Davidson in the fall of
| 1927, Rusk received the first class honor
|that can come to a local man, being elected
| president of the Freshman class, He was in-
‘ducted into the Beaver Club, Sophomore
honorary society.

Various honors to which he attains and
offices which he holds are: President of the
Y. M. C. A., Cadet Major of the R. O.
T. C. battalion, varsity “D” in basketball,
manager of the Students’ Store, member of
the tennis squad, student councilman for two
years, and a member of six honorary fra-

(Continued on page 6) —

Barium Renders Its
Thanks to Davidson

During the month of December the Y. M.
C. A. made a campaign drive for Barium
Springs Orphanage, setting its goal at $1,000.
So far this campaign has been highly suc-
cessful, even measuring up to the expecta-
tions of the Y. M. C. A. Already the pledged
subscriptions and cash donations total
$989.75. An effort was made to personally
interview each student, but there are still
about fifty men to be canvassed. If these
equal the standard set by the rest of the stu-
dent body, the $1,000 goal will be easily
reached, if not passed. This success surpasses
any “Y” campaign fund drive that has been
made in the college for several years.

Those subscriptions that have already
been made have been sent to Joseph B. John-
ston, manager of Barium Springs, and he is
highly gratified with the gift. The generous
response of the students here has shown him
the interest that Davidson feels toward the
Orphanage.

In a letter written to Carl Pritchett, Mr.
Johnston expresses his thanks to the Y. M.
C. A., and adds:

“Your check and letter received, and there
isn’t any money that has come to us that
T appreciate more than this.

“We have so many contacts with David
son—all of them delightful—and that your
Y. M. C. A, thought well enough to make
us the object of your gifts this year was
mighty fine and made us feel mighty good.

“The willingness that seems to be mani-
fest in the subscriptions is another thing
that makes us feel mighty good. We just
hope we will always deserve the goodwill
and liberality everywhere, especially of Da
vidson.

“With wishes,
“Very truly,

Joseph

best

B. Johnston.”

The thanks of the Orphanage to Davidson
were more publicly expressed in an article
in the “Barium Messenger.” Besides stating
the thanks which the Orphanage feels to-
ward Davidson for the gift, the article men-
tions the close relationship which exists be-
tween the two institutions. Deputations of
Davidson are continually visiting Barium
Springs and conducting various meetings
there. Also, a number of Davidson alumni
are on the staff at Barium, and each year
several graduates from the Orphanage enter
Davidson. To sum up the feeling of Ba-
rium in its own words: “We are proud to
claim the Davidson students and faculty
our friends, That they have chosen to honor
us in this way makes us very happy.”

Fire a Old Armory

Causes Excitement

as

On the evening of December 13, a large
per cent of the student body were being
entertained by the Junior class when sudden-
ly the fire alarms rang out. The fire was
in the room of Dean Rusk and Stewart
Meacham. About two hundred and fifty stu-
dents answered the call, which had been
turned in by Johnny Marvin, and soon the
blaze was extinguished. Sergeant Kirby
wielded the fire extinguisher which was in-
strumental in putting out the fire. Very little
damage was done, the main damage being
the loss of three extra rolls of wall paper
and one fire extinguisher. Immediately after
the blaze was extinguished the occupants
of the room returned to the scene of the
festivities. It is believed that the fire was
caused by a defective flue.

Rusk and Meacham have expressed their
thanks for the brave and heroic efforts of
those who helped to extinguish the fire,
which might have caused extreme damage
to their property.

Winter Park, Fla —(1P)—The Third An-
nual Institute of Statesmanship at Rollins
College, January 5 to 10, brought to the
college some - fifteen speakers representing
education, industry, banking, journalism, eco-
nomics, and the Federal government.

The general subject for the institute was
“Our Changing Economic Life.”

Dr. Kirk Lectures Here
On Topic “Man’s Place

In Nature and Beyond”

Delivers Series of Five Lectures
Before Davidson Student Body
and Townspeople

SCIENTIFIC PROOFS

Approaches His Subject Through
the Way of Apologetics

Dr. Harris I. Kirk, eminent minister of
the Southern Presbyterian Church, former
Moderator the General Assembly, and
now pastor of the Franklin Street Presby-
terian Church of Baltimore, Md., since 1901,
last Friday concluded at Davidson College
a series of five lectures centering upon the
general theme, “Man's Place in Nature and
Beyond.”

of

Approximately 800 people daily heard Dr.
Kirk, These consisted of Davidson student
body, faculty, townspeople and many -visitors
from nearby cities, among them many min-
isters.

In treating his general subject, the min-
ister used specific topics, “The Insignificance
of Man's Earthly Home,” “The Significance
of Man's Personality,” “The — Spiritual
Trends of Science,” “Jesus Christ, the His-
of God,” “and “The
Christian Conception of Man’s Place in Na-
ture and Beyond.”

torical Manifestation

The series of lectures was delivered under
the Otts Foundation, a fund established in
1893 by the late Dr. J. M. P. Otts. It was
the fifth series, former lecturers having been
Dr. Otts, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr. J. B.
Shearer, and Dr. W. W. Moore. Dr. Moore
lectured in 1920, and since that time officials
of the college had permitted the fund to ac-
cumulate.. Present plans are to have a lec-
turer ‘visit Davidson bi-annually.

Dr. Kirk approached his subject through
the way of apologetics, choosing this instead
of from the standpoint of theology, which
begins with the assumption that Christianity
is true and then goes on to. prove it. Apolo-
getics, he declared, starts with the conviction
that Christianity holds eternal and essential
values and then proceeds to show that these

(Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Sings at
Christmas Vespers

Davidson's annual Christmas vesper sery
ice was held the last Sunday before school
was dismissed, 14, and brought
to a close a year of unusually fine and in-
spiring vesper services. This was the last
service which the students attended during
the year 1930, and served as a climax to all
the services which preceded it.

One of Davidson's most cherished and tra-
ditional customs has been, for many years,

December

to hold a sacred vesper service before the
Christmas holidays. This is one of the most
beautiful held during the entire year.

One of the most impressive features of

the service this year was the decoration of

the stage. Pines and hemlocks were massed
in the center of the stage and the curtain —
was draped around them. A white star shone
above the trees. The Glee Club and speakers
were hidden from sight by the trees, and
only the songs and scripture could be heard.

The service was opened with a prelude

by the strings and organ, and the Glee Club
sang a processional, “O Come All Ye
Faithful.” Jas. A. Jones pronounced an in-
vocation and “O Little Town of Bethle-
hem” was rendered as a response.
_ The Nativity of Christ was traced by
scripture readings, and Christmas carols
were sung by the congregation as a_ re-
sponse. The prophecy of Christ’s- birth in
Isaiah and Micah was read first. Then the
Nativity was read from Matthew and. Luke.
Following this, the stories of the coming of
the shepherds and the coming of the wise
men were read.

The service was closed by the benediction
and “Silent Night” was sung by the Glee
Club. This brought to an end a service
which, wherever it is held, is unsurpassed in
beauty and impréssiveness.

as
