i)

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly ‘‘For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN PibisecsvsssCosusssceccdeause Editor-in-Chief
emt GON WAY pisusbsccdnunanas: wenececssaueen Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
POPU GUBRRAN D ciscsusdcbkuckeics ebcabsccs. Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE-_-. Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE-. .-Managing Editor
Cc KF --Managing Editor
B. B. «Athletic Editor
dD. .-Feature Editor
W. Feature Editor
H. -Review Editor
5 “xchange Editor
E. Associate Editor
W. Associate Editor
W. Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON 2 ......-.-Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE...-- Assistant Business Manager
ti, W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
» R. MORROW. Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON Solicitor
Nteahig NIWA locate cs teloccucteccdsus i

dingo By 2WOOLLONeccsccscqiennesce

REPORTERS’ CLUB

At tt WU MA DrsesvcasceeducaacdsvsdcudysccnguancdsPrenigent
Ap doy ae, VecdueoutdaccuuluLasacadeLanuasd ..Vice-President
Wish Mg SSsunsascsccscteccczcus _.Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. 1. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

J. E. BOYD Kk. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A, F. SCHENCK

0. CASA W. M. THOMPSON

LI
L. W. CLARDY, JR.

W. T._ THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS
Conversation of people often dwells on the subject
of the weather. They have had plenty: of subject mat-
ter for the last few days. They have been the hot-
test that September has brought in several years.

Apologies are expressed for the late appearance of
the paper last week. We hope that the printers will
make it this time.

Tonight over a hundred of the two hundred and
fifty Freshmen will accept bids to the various social
fraternities on the campus. May we take this oppor-
tunity to congratulate them and the fraternities.

The staff will be glad to accept any letters on sub-
jects of interest to the student body, providing they
are accompanied by the name of the author. These
subjects will certainly include any improvements that
should be made, the laundry situation, or any other
matters concerning the college. Thesé letters will be
printed in a column devoted ‘to this type of writing.

The Elon game was probably a disappointment to
some, and the team makes no alibi; nor does it need

one. They'll beat State Saturday. You SEE if they
don’t!

- Campus life has settled down to a more regular
thing after two weeks of rushing about aimlessly.
With no special event on the campus until Home-
coming, October 17, the students will find some time
for that work they have been trying to do.

EXTRA-CURRICULA ACTIVITIES

At the beginning of every college year, there
appear to the ambitious student the very de-
batable questions: Are extra-curricula activ-
ities worth while, and does the gaining of
extra-curricula honors warrant the time ne-
cessitated? Some college men contend that
the time thus spent could, with far greater
profit, be directed towards the prescribed arts,
sciences, etc. Certainly neither to the total ex-
clusion of the other would be highly profitable.
It is the man who has gained the wisest blend-
ing of the two that. deserves and gains the
laurels.

Thus the accepted popularity and benefit’ of

these extra-curricula activities seem to be the
only needed excuse for being. Having reached
this point we are in a position to consider the
many extra-curricula fields that lie beckoning
to the interested student at Davidson.
_ Athletics probably gain first place in the
numbers involved, and surely no person today
denies the great benefit derived from athletics
in moderation. The various college publica-
tions constitute another field that attracts a
great many. Their practice in expository writ-
ing is unlimited and priceless. Today, even the
best business schools consider this art of para-
mount importance. The work of the literary
societies and various other honor groups goes
on apace. The very important duties of social
life are met in numerous college functions and
in the social Greek letter fraternities. Even
the religious life of the campus is largely su-
pervised by the students and provides a great
field for real unselfish service.

It should never be forgotten that scholar-
ship is of primary importance, but the varied
extra-curricula activities should certainly be
ranked a close‘and important second. Whereas
the college man of yesterday left the portals
of his Alma Mater primarily schooled in the
classics, today the college graduate, if he avails
himself of his opportunities, can make him-
self a well-rounded citizen, far more capable
to succeed in this complex world.

Chas. F. Myers, Jr.

SYLVESTER B. McLEAN, JR.

Maxton people have heard sad news on
many occasions, and we all know for a cer-
tainty that in future time, we know not how
soon, bad-news will be brought to us again.
The fact that we have heard distressing news
so many times in the past has never prepared
us for it in the future.

All of Maxton was deeply grieved to learn
of the death last week of Sylvester B. Mc-
Lean, Jr., who died so suddenly in a New York
hospital. It was a blow to all who knew him.
Not the least among those to miss him are his

playmates of childhood days, the days when -

Sylvester so gaily tramped the streets of
Maxton just as do other youngsters today.

Even those who were not so well acquaint-
ed with him were deeply touched, because of
the esteem in which they held the young man’s
parents. 2

Sylvester was so young. His future seemed
so bright. It was hard for his freinds to realize
that in some way, whether they understood or
not, that it was infinitely better for Sylvester.
If it had not been better, he would still be
here. This much we know. Sylvester is all
right today, and he is happy, happier than he
has ever been, happier than we can possibly
imagine him to be. Doubtless he would not re-
turn if he could, unless to speak comforting
words to those so sorely bereaved and to tell
them how glorious is the life which he is now
living—Maxton Scottish Chief.

OPEN FORUM

THE HONOR SYSTEM

Lang and loud have been the praises of the Honor
System at Davidson sung by its loyal alumnae, stu-
dents, and friends. So wide-spread has this commen-
dation become, that it creates within us a spirit of
real responsibility. To retain the fine spirit of honor
that. Davidson is reputed to have, is a man’s size task.

But is the Honor System at Davidson a success, or
have we been over-zealous in our praise? Our Honor
System, as it is set forth in the Student Constitution,
consists of three sections, namely; cheating, stealing,
and perjury. Every student is honor-bound to refrain
from all these things.

We have reason to believe that Davidson is as free
from cheating as any school inthe United States, and
that it is far above most of them in this respect. In
this, then, we feel that we have lived up to our rep-
utation.

On the other hand, it is common knowledge around
the campus that any book or notebook left anywhere
except in one’s room can hardly be considered safe.
And just prior to exam period, they are not invulner-
able even in one’s room. Slickers and raincoats are
particularly susceptible during rainy spells. Toilet
articles, light bulbs, etc, are subject to loss at any
time.

Remembering that all Juniors and Seniors are 6n
Dean’s pledge to attend Church each Sunday, an ex-
amination of the Dean’s records, and a check-up on
the Church attendance, is all that is necessary to
convince us that perjury is not uncommon in our
midst.

In the face of such facts as these, how can we
say that we have been faithful to our responsibilities ?
Or how can we make anyone believe that our Honor
System is successful?

Knowing that the Honor System has worked, and
is working, in other schools, schools that do not pro-
fess to be Christian Institutions, can we fail to see
that there is something fundamentally wrong with
our system? ad

Quite rightfully the faculty has maintained a hands-
off attitude toward the Student Government. It is true
however that they have seen fit to burden us with
a multitude of regulations which may tend to de-
tract the attention of the student from the enforce-
ment of the Honor System.

More important than this, however, is the fact that
the Student Constitution has become cluttered with
numerous laws concerning offenses which should be
dealt with by the Administrative Department of the
College. This forces the members of the Student
Council into a position synonymous with that of a
policeman in civil life. Like more mature men, the
student will protect his friend to keep him from fall-
ing into the clutches of these pseudo-policemen.

It is easily seen, then, that from the position into
which they are forced by the attempted enforcement
of these other laws, it is impossible for the Student
Council to secure the confidence of the students nec-
essary for the successful working of the Honor Sys-
tem.

This is true to such an extent that a student who
reports to the Student Council a violation of the
Honor System, instead of being regarded as a highly
honorable man, worthy of admiration, is looked down
upon as a stool pigeon who has betrayed the con-
fidence of his friend, and placed one who trusted him
in the clutches of higher authorities.

In order to escape this unhappy condition, there is
apparent but one solution. Let us strike from the
Student Constitution all laws except the three sec-
tions of the Honor System, reverting the enforcement
of these other laws upon the administration of the
College, that has so longi escaped this part of its
rightful duty, and concentrate our efforts upon the
achievement of the fundamental purpose of Student
Government and the Honor System, which is : thé ex-
pulsion from our midst any, and all, students that lie
cheat, or steal!

. DIOGENES XXIII.

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

No doubt most of us saw Lloyd George’s state-
ment in which he makes a plea that all the political
parties stand together in the crisis which has pre-
sented itself as a result of the sudden turn in the
sritish financial situation. It reads:

“If the nation remains steady and united we shall
pull through all right. Our resources are quite ade-
quate to mect the situation, but a factional fight
among ourselves, at this juncture, would be unpa-
triotic lunacy.

“The mere threat of such a fight has precipitated
this second, and graver crisis. British common sense,
if it is given a chance, will find a way out.”

We cannot help but believe that there will be, in
the immediate future, a direct upturning in the politi-
cal and financial worlds of not only England, but of
the rest of the world as well. We sincerely hope that
this belief ts not just another case of the wish be-
ing father of the thought.

“When the Moon Comes Over the Mountain” will
recall to the minds of more than a few of us a quite
delightful sensation. Kate Smith, the Songbird of
the South, with her Swanee Music, has won a place
in our hearts which even her two hundred and
forty pounds cannot readily eradicate. Listen to her,
if you haven’t already done so. She can bring you
something new in the way of “voix des femmes,” a
voice which you cannot soon forget.

As a severe blow fo the world of the intelligensia
came the news of the death of Dr. David Starr
Jordan, who for some time up until 1913, at which
time he retired, had been .chancellor-emeritus of
Stanford University and Dean of American univer-
sity presidents, Although known most widely as an
advocate of world peace, Dr. Jordan was also a
great educator. In 1885, when he became president
of the University of Indiana, he was said to be the
youngest college president in the country.

A war between China and Japan seems imminent
enough, Manchuria, long a sore spot, was the
scene of much excitement when a bridge on the
Chinese Eastern Railway was dynamited, and some
Japan rainy guards were attacked, both at-

being done, allegedly, by Chinese soldiers.
China .also executed a Japanese officer as a spy.
Let us here express the hope that this is not the
brewing of another great world conflict.

rociti

sy the end of next June, it is estimated that the
United States will have spent over $1,550,000,000 for
relief since the beginning of the depression. This in-
cludes,of course, the expenditures for federal con-
struction, maintenance, and drought relief expendi-
tures. 9

Expenditures fo¥ the first half of 1932 were esti-
mated as follows:

Public buildings and lands, $126,980,000; other con-
struction work, $95,737,000; construction under en-
gineer corps, $40,000,000; repairs and maintenance,
$37,283,000; roads, $75,593,000.

It was estimated, by Dr. E. C. Branson, head of
the department of rural social economics in the
University of North Carolina, that there are now
47,000 native born white women illiterates in North
Carolina.

“The public schools, the mission schools, and the
moonlight schools have made praiseworthy efforts
to stamp out illiteracy, but they have had so far to
go that they have done comparatively little.

“The church can still do a great deal, and the
adult education movement has infinite possibilities.

“One reason so little has been accomplished is
because the appeal is for home missions which al-

EXCHANGE

This column, which started out on its career during
the last of last spring, is written to keep the students
of Davidson in contact with the other schools and
colleges of the nation, but especially those of the
South, In this column there will’ be quotations from
the papers and summaries of the news found in the
papers that will be of the most interest to the stu-
dent body.

As The Davidsonian goes to press there are very
few papers on hand as there are not many schools
starting as yet. We have papers from Clemson,
V. M. IL; Catawba College, Alabama College, Duke,
and Gettysburg College. ,

The Clemson Tiger tells us that they are going to
have a strong line this year but Coach Neely, new
Clemson coach, is searching for a pair of good ends
and a relief center for their captain, “Red” Ford-
ham. Neely has a wealth of material in the backfield
but as yet no one is sure of his position; he says that
everyone will have to prove his worth. The coach is
also having a hard time getting a combination in the
backfield that will function.

Catawba College’s paper, The Pioneer, informs us
that Dr. Howard R. Omwake, for twelve years Dean
of Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster,) Penn-
sylvania, was elected to the presidency of Catawba
College on Saturday afternoon, July 12. He was unan-
imously elected by the Board of Trustees of the col-
lege upon the recommendation of a special committee
which had studied prospective leaders. He is a mem-
ber of the Pennsylvania Educational Association, Phi
Kappa Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and Phi Delta Kappa
fraternities. He succeeds the late Dr: Elmer R. Hoke,
president from 1924 until his death in March of this
year.

“|, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

BY WAY OF EXPLANATION

This is supposed to be a humorous column, but
the funniest thing so far, that has happened in it,
was accidental. It was like this. “We” had drawn a
cute lil’ boat to be put at the head of the column,
and also an inscription. Then I wrote a whole raft
(riff raft), trying to explain the drawing at the head
of the column. (And then the printer didn’t put the
picture up there at the top) They left it out. In fact
they wanted to leave it all out,—and you know,
that would have beén a good thing. They could
have left a blank column. And one tHing this coun-
try needs is blank columns, Many ,of them that are
printed ought to be left blank. And there are many
uses for blank space. Davidsonian readers could
have usesd it for playing tick tack toe, making a
list of the capitols of all the states in the Union, or
they might have drawn some conclusions.

I asked several fellows, and they said they hadn't
read it anyway, so I think I can,get by with re-
printing a brief paragraph of what was printed
last week, in explanation. So here goes (nothing).
Maybe I should explain... the title I have chosen.
‘ for this column. (By the way this is not a
CHAMBERS COLUMN, and should not be con-

fused with one.) ... 1 wish I could explain. . . the
nautical little sketch. . . but I don’t know. . . the
inscription “CABBAGES AND KINGS” . . . means

I have no particular subjects (or objects) about
which to write... THE MIRTH OF A NATION

. well that was just some passing brainstorm... .
or night mare ... anyway’ that’s my story and I'll
stick to it... not being@.a “second story man”...
(but a first Floor-ist). ... s>Since I cannot explain
the ship, I'll do the next best thing. . . Twill dedi-
cate it to some one. .-. to good ole\Crisco Lumbus,
with the plea:

“Don’t give up the ship”

To Christopher Columbus, nautically eh-steamed
explorer, who took the words right out of my en-
cyclopedia when he said “Four Pintas equal one Gal-
leon,” I dedicate the above drawn ship, therewith
including all that it “holds,” any profits that may be ©
realized from its sails (sales), and just for a good
turn, the steering wheel. Good Ole Crisco Lumbus.
Aufwiederzehn, And bon voyage.

Mr. Adolf Hoopinkoff will now sing the popular
prohibition song, entitled, “THERE’S ALWAYS
RUM FOR ONE MORE.” (But please come back in

about fifteen minutes, so as not to miss the
“SHIRT SHIRT STORY”
(A Shirt Tale)

Since this is the “tail” end of my column, don’t you
think we should take up the popular question of the
minute, “Should Smith Send Sixteen Shirts Simul-
taneously?” And the answer comes back, “NO!” Six-
teen shirts should not suffer shrinkage simultaneous-
ly. Because shrunken shirts are unkind to his Adam’s
Apple. There is only one way out (of the shirt). The
laundry-man should press the button out of service.
Thus with the (collar) button removed, the Adam's
Apple would be released from the press. This would
improve the Times, benefit the Globe, and have a
good effect on the Observer.

This shirt tale gives me a pain in the neck, so I'll
collar the tale, witha cuff (from the Editor-in-Chief),

Good night, shirt.

ways lack the enchantment of foreign missions,
Most of the white women illiterates are country
women, their plight being suffocating loneliness and
sealed silence.”

It seems unreasonable to believe that there is this
much illiteracy among just the white women of
North Carolina alone. Think of the forty-seven
other states, not to mention the white men illiter-
ates and all of the illiterate negroes, men and
women. Illiteracy today is distressing to even real-
ize, it is a problem which should concern everybody.

Of interest to some will be the recent announce-
ment that the Carolina Playmakers of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina will present six plays during
the coming year. This announcement was made by
Frederick H. Koch, director of the Playmakers and
professor of dramatic”titerature in the University of
North Carolina. Among the plays to be given are
“Saturday’s Children,” some Carolina folk-plays, “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and “The Trojan
Woman.” i
