N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

——

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

}: WILSON CUTCHAN.
A. CAN

--Editor-in-Chief
siness Manager

Mc
NON Soiseutetes ves
EDITORIAL STAFF

E. C. DWELLE, JR... Managing Editor
Wi'8) DBAs -Managing Editor
D. G, MARTIN.... Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. --Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD............. ---News Editor
V. M, BELL aa es ---Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES...__--__...--- .--Feature Editor
A. R, JACKSON.-- --.-Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. .--Associate Editor
wa BLACK..--.. ---Associate Editor
@CMRAGING i caclusecaccetuccccbaacocnen Associate

Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

P. M. PSISESSE cwaceose Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BA --Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVE ---Assistant Business Manager
A. G, MONTGOMERY....._-.........- Subscription Manager
PIOREAB ROW NGeeeas coed ccissccdsstecccceucsaucuasoatee Solicitor
R. W. .---Solicitor
A. M. --Solicitor
A. L, iB --Solicitor
Wo Ri MORRO Wessisrasutaccucsss suscasnscsccccccuuses Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;

Sic Si WIGEY a sccccsstseucstcceavsaa eeccstses cusecccee President
D. Gi ‘STEPHENSON? 23 eae Vice-President
A.-H,_WHITEHEAD.......2....neneene Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN

J. G.. BERRY G. E, BAILEY

A. R. BIRD }: E, BOYD

N. B. DICKS . G, DUNKLIN

E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK

. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE

. C. MATTHEWS G.-F. ERS

V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

C. W. F, SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 5, 1931

——

Truth cannot be compassed by the use of
our five physical senses.
Dr. R. W. Sockman.

SUGGESTIONS

True Americans, those whose ancestors did not
come over on the Mayflower, have contributed
proportionately few athletes to the nation. Perhaps
the greatest of them all was Jim Thorpe; Gurneau
is another. A man who can win five letters at a
modern college deserves respect.

Students have noticed that Jake Wade is back
with “The Charlotte Observer.” It may interest
them to know that Harry Griffith is still connected
with that paper but in a different capacity.

Old students cannot refrain from wondering how
much longer the good weather of last week will
continue. We warrant, however, that the ground-
hog saw his shadow last Monday.

Doc Unger made his wrestling debut with a vic-
tory. We wish him many more.

Getting gravel in one’s shoe is a more common-
place occurrence than having an apple drop on
one’s head. Isaac Newton experienced the latter
and presented the world with a theory; the former
field is still open to philosophers.

President Hoover has been the recipient of an-
other dog. A President’s k Is grow rapidly
while he is in office. We congratulate him on not
being adopted by any Indian tribes or having his
picture taken in cowboy outfit.

MARKS OF A GENTLEMAN

A short time ago there was editorial com-
ment made on the general subject of caring
for property that is not one’s own. Its spe-
cial application was directéd toWard the
escape of window panes from the customary
snowballs. There are other ways to respect
property.

Perhaps nothing is quite as characteristic
of the little mind as scribbling and drawing
on walls of rooms and buildings. Mere de-
facement of a clean, surface is somethng
which a thinking person finds hard to ex-
plain.

Vandalism has long been pointed out as a
trait of the average American. Long ago it
was the habit of barbarians to utterly ruin
and mar everything for which they had no
use and which they could not carry away
with them. There was mere depredation in
their hearts.

Visitors to Monticello, the palatial home
and shrine of Thomas Jefferson, will see his
tombstone enclosed by a high iron grating;
it is there to prevent chips being taken from
the stone as souvenirs.

Chambers building has fared fairly well
for the time that it has been in use. There is
no student who does not take a pride in it,
down in his heart; we do not believe that

any one would thoughtfully diminish its’

beauty. All that is necessary is a little more

honest and concentrated thought on the

matter.”

“DOLE” OR SUBSCRIPTION
When the Senate recently voted tg ap-
propriate twenty-five million dollars to be
presented to the Red Cross for the relief of

| areas stricken by the drouth, it was con-

fronted with a storm of opposition from
several different sides. Mr. Payne, head of
the Red Cross, appealed to President Hoov-
er to stop the legislation, saying that the
idea of the government’s helping the or-

| ganization would prevent the workers from

|

|
|
|

securing free-will subscriptions. Hoover
himself objected to the idea of a govern-
ment appropriation, taking the stand that
it resembled too closely the “dole” system of

| the British Empire, and. that this would be |

|

a dangerous precedent to set. Many prom-
inent workers in the Red Cross movement
do not approve of this move of the Senate’s,
stating that, if government funds are used
in this emergency, it will never
possible for the Red Cross to do the work
that it has done in the past, because the

people, knowing that the government will
| support the Red CrosS“will not subscribe to

the relief fund. These fear that the whole
Red Cross organization would be destroyed
by any government aid.

The Senators sponsoring the bill reply

again be

with the statement that, although the Red |

Cross may eventually take care of the peo-

fully realze the imminent need of the suf-
ferers. An amendment has been suggested
for the appropriation bill, making the
twenty-five milion a loan from the govern-

| ment to the relief organization, to be repaid

t

after the crisis is over. There are some who
think that the money raised by subscription
should be combined with the government
appropriation and both used ir? the relief.

In the furtherance of his plan of raising
the money by public subscription, Presi-
dent Hoover has appointed what is probably
the most illustrious committee ever desig-
nated, Such names as Calvin Coolidge, Al-
fred E. Smith, John W. Davis, Will Rogers,
and Frank Hawkes show the nation-wide
importance of the committee. That this
committee is accomplishing something is
shown by the fact that Will Rogers made
eighty thousand dollars in Texas for one
week’s performances, and gave it all to the
relief fund. °

Grier Martin.

THE SENIOR PARTY

Every class at Davidson has its own pe-
culiar and particular social functions; some
classes have more of them than others. The
faculty. of the college has a distinct hand in
two of these, namely the Freshman recep-
tion and the Senior house party. The latter
is on comparatively recent origin but has
ably proved its place among ether class
social events.

Sponsored by members of the faculty and
their wives and planned by a committee ap-
pointed from this group the Senior party
offers that class its last opportunity to a
restrictive entertainment on the campus. It
is restrictive in the sense that it is held
strictly for the enjoyment of Seniors. Com-
mencement cannot be properly termed a
social event ; smokers, even, offer a different
type of get-together affair.

Seniors should take the best ad yantage of

this last true class function. Some of these
men do not appear to fully realize the fact
that within a time less than five months dis-
tant the class will have its members &cat-
tered hither and yon throughout this and
other countries, Even now there are men
who are panning to travel farther than
others; it is a safe speculation that all of
the members of ’31 will not be present for
the “baby alumni” reunion.
_ Close friendships are frequently formed
in four years; we are even of the opinion
that if they are not formed through an as-
sociation of this time they will never be
formed. There is no man in the Senior class,
having spent four years on the Davidson
campus, who does not have friends that he
did not have before he came here, Many of
these are so firm that one places implicit
trust and faith in them. Their value cannot
be measured in worldly terms.

It is not pleasant to observe, rightly and
truthfully, that these associations will draw
to more or less of an end as the fiscal year
closes. The man who is in active correspond-
ence or touch with five of his classmates
after he has been out of under-graduate
school for five or six years may indeed count
himself fortunate. 3 :

One of the unpleasant factors of college

| life'is the reality that within a few years the

ties formed in school dwindle and are lost
while their personnel is in the act of passing
the tests of life. This is not as much the
‘effect of forgetfulness as the demands of
‘necessity, yet no man can: single out the
friendships which will continue throughout
the years. Those which seem the dearest to
him now may, in a short time, be separated

a

alumni

Ernest Milton, our. popular secretary,
hardly needs a eulogy from anyone who knows
him, for if any man ever deserved credit for real
achievement, it is none other than our industrious
alumni chief. Therefore, in this issue, this column
is devoted entirely to Ernest and his splendid
work, as a tribute to him on behalf of the stu-
dent body. The vast majority of this “dope” came
from men intimate with the functions of the afum-
ni office and who are in close contact with the
secretary himself, whose extreme modesty ren-
dered him “unapproachable” to a news reporter.

Graduating in 1926, after some undergraduate ex-
perience in news writidg, Ernest was appointed
head of the Davidson press bureau, official source
of all college news dispatched from Davidson
whether administrative or extra-curricular. Too,
in the fall of 1926, the alumni office was created
and the alumni chose Ernest as their executive.
His work with the press bureau was undisturbed
by this new position and he still negotiates the
dual duties.

Realizing the great difficulty confronting the

: ) | successful management of the newly-initiated in-
ple in the drouth-stricken area, they do not |

stitution, Ernest began enthusiastically to per-
form the multitudinous requirements of the office
by completely revising the 2,500 names on -the
alumni roster, many o which were incorrectly ad-

| dressed, and faculty in many’ other ways. Now

ey

there are about 3,700 names accurately filed in
every detail, as far as is known. Usually changes
incur some 600 variations in address annually and
an approximate addition of 100 new names to the
roll each year.

A Tew years ago, little interest was evidenced by
alumni, in college activities. Then, a Homecoming
program attracted only a comparative few where-
as now hundreds attend, all effected through Ern-
est's efficiency, As a testimony of appreciation for
his work, the college administration now con-
tributes $2,000 a year to the alumni office as com-
pared to its $350 donation in 1926, Further proof
of his capability as an administrator is obvious
when it is revealed that he has virtually “wiped
out” a $3,000 debt which has burdened the alumni
office ever since its inception.

As an organizer, he has not only built his office
into an almost perfect systematic unit, but has
progressed exceptionally well in stimulating alumni
enthusiasm in different cities where Davidson’s
graduates reside. In 1926, only four organized
alumni chapters existed. Now there are at least
thirty which can be considered “active.” Our secre-
tary supervises and attends about twenty-five
alumni chapter meetings a year. These groups
serve a three-fold purpose, namely, to inform
themselves about Davidson from speakers who
are usually college faculty members, to renew col-
legiate contacts, and to urge, through their in-
fluence, prospective Davidson men to matriculate
here.

Ernest's phenomenal success can be attributed
to his extraordinary personality. From the be-
ginning, he made the office a personal thing and
attempted to show the alumni that he really was
interested in them, not only through voluminous
personal letters but by continuous individual con-
tact with Davidson men,-on trips. It would not be
exaggerating to say that he knows personally over
2,000_of our alumni; at least 60 per cent of them.
He incessantly keeps in close touch with all of the
alumni, writing usually four personal letters a year
to the entire constituency, sometimes sending forty
different ones daily, in addition to his usual routine
obligations. His remarkable ability to recognize
any Davidson man’s name on sight is unique, and
he has developed an unusual “knack” for remem-
bering almost every alumnus’ name as well as his
initials, can usually tell you his address, and what
Occupation he is engaged in. He reads numerous
newspapers daily and is always on the lookout
for news concerning alumni.

To enumerate all of Ernest’s activities would
require another column but the major ones can be
mentioned. He writes over 1,000 news articles a
year, about 500 more than the personnel of the
Press bureau did in 1926. During the course of the
college year, he receives hundreds of telegrams
and telephone calls from different southern news-
papers inquiring for information about some par-
ticular phase of Davidson life. He issues periodical-
ly alumni catalogues which include a comprehen-
sive account of an alumnus’ doings. The secretary

by the farthest mental and physical dis-
tance.

Efforts are frequently made to thwart this
obvious condition; one of the schemes is
the plan of alumni reunions. With all re-
spect to these, no class gathering has ever
had every man there who graduated with
the rest of his classmates. There are some
men in school wh owill attempt to under-
rate class spirit and unity; few of them are
Seniors. Even these individuals will admit,
when pressed, that such emotions do exist.
although they cannot always be accounted
for-by mere logic.

MUSINGS 9 te
_,MATADOR

PERSONALS AND OTHERWISE
Mr. D. P. Smith, local youth, has moved his
place of abode to Hiner’s Corner where he will
start to work with the Mud Contractors Co. It is
generally understood that Mr, Smith will have
very little chance to work up as his work calls for
a well-digger.

At the recent picnic given by the Lions Club,
Mr. C. P. O’Brien brought a ham, Mr. H. A, Allen
brought a watermelon and Mr. S. D. McTavish
brought his brother.

Mr. Alf Woody, gave his little son a dollar bill,
it is rumored; for crying out loud!

It is with regret that we record that Mr. H. K.
Dooligan has left town for an indefinite period,
and his associates state that they miss him very
much. Mr. H. K. Dooligan will be remembered as
the cashier of ee Fourth National Bank.

Mr. G. T. Brown is in the hospital here. Mr.
Brown, although only thirty years of age is usually
referred to as one of the early settlers as it is said
that he pays his bills on time.

Mr. K. O. McKesson, local scientist, has left for
the Petnuia Islands where he will try to find out if
the jelly-fish get their jelly from the ocean “cur-
rents,”

Mr. O. D, Adams will be formally initiated into
the Royal Order of Dragons tonight. To use a
popular expression, he will be taken for a rite.

Friends say Mr. and Mrs. Newlywed are very
happy in their new home. It is rumored that Mrs.
Newlywed worships her husband; in fact some go
so far as to say she places burnt offerings before
him three times a day.

Mr. T. L. Winkershander is said to be of the
opinion that a blackmailer is a Negro postman but
he, highly indigant, denies having any knowledge
whatsoever.

Considerable anxiety is being felt here for Mr.
S. E. Larson, baker, who is selling bread that he
kneads himself. :

Mr. Alf Woody is suffering from father’s foot,
caught during the dead of night last Tuesday
when his little brat hollered all night. Mr. Woody
states however, that his foot is. furtherest from
his mind.

Officer : “Is that soup ready, Jones?”

Officer’s Servant: “No, Sir. The stove went out,
Sir.” ;

Officer: “When out? Then why don’t you light
it again?”

Officer’s Servant: “Cos it went out by the roof,
Site

Dentist (speaking to patient about to have tooth
extracted): “Have you heard the latest song hit?”

Patient: “No, what fs it?”

Dentist: “The yanks are coming.”

Schumaker: “Father, what is heredity?”
Father: “Something a father believes in until his
son starts acting like a fool.

Wife: “Do you think that Dr. Smith’s medecine
does any good?”

John: “Not unless you follow the directions.”
Wife: “What are the directions?”

John: “Keep the bottle tightly corked.”

edits the alumni page in the Davidsonian each
week, and isstes a pamphlet bi-annually giving
vital statistics about births, deaths, marriages and
other events concerning alumni. He takes the re-
sponsibility upon himself to see that the college
bulletin which is published monthly, is properly dis
tributed and sometimes editing it himself. He also
endeavors to interview every senior in the grad-
uating class in an attempt to convey to them the
object of the alumni office, and the ways in which
the secretary may be of service.

“Davidson, greater still by) your will.” Ernest
originated this excellent slogan two years ago, in
trying to convince every alumnus to leave David-
son a small part of his estate, on the premise that
Our, institution would be, in about 30 years, a pow-
erful college financially. His motto so impressed .
the graduates that already he has received grat-
ifying results; many wills having been made since
then including Davidson as a beneficiary.

Ernest has still, many “dreams” for the future—
a separate alumni building, an alumni magazine, a
placement bureau for. the purpose of assisting
graduates to procure positions, and a filing system
which will keep-each man’s correspondence sep-
arately filed, and augmented by ‘all the material
relating to his past and present record. What more
could a man do in four and a half years?
