i

i)

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

WoO
a
“aw
—
Of
z
>
nbs
y
3
vA
\
'
'
H
H
H
H
cz}
=
Ss
ty
:
Q
i
:

GUERRANT. --Managing Editor
McBRYDE —-Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
.--Athletic Editor
---Feature Editor
..-Feature Editor
---Review Editor
-Exchange Editor
-Associate Editor
Editor
Editor

-Associate
-Associate

2epomepeoryn

BUSINESS STAFF

AC OM EMANSONs cvccceccuccusetoas. Assistant Business Manager
Aj aly MWB AW Wekccccsasoscoccsacee Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED-- ....---Assistant Business Manager
Wires eM ORR Wisdccacctuatessbascsusdasya Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON. Susccs vinsbSesEeoZSOlCtOr
ve Bs EAL...... .-Solicitor
Die [Bye WOOTTON Ss cs cossubaieesdacauscveccscus locucesecaNOlleltor,
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Agr WHLLBEGA Divs aagicccsaccctuubpadacssstatasaice President
Uae bic clAK Wrscusecacau ...-----.-----Vice-President
"*W. F. MULLISS....-......................Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

Be B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

J. E. BOYD KE. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R,. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R, WARD A, F. SCHENCK

0. CASALI W..M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, JR. W. T._ THOMPSON

J. A. HUNTER

SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

Mrs. Smith, our very successful snpervisor of dor-
mitories, has an inspiring editorial in this issue on
“The Immorality of Ugliness.” We recommend it
very highly to our readers.

The only thing that keeps Rumple from being a
veritable hotel is its lack of elevators. Those who did
not see it before can hardly appreciate what a mag-
nificent change has taken place. The college authori-
ties are to be congratulated.

Around 250 Freshmen enrolled! That doesn’t sound
so much like a depression. Still I’ve heard there was
one—somewhere.

Let’s back that Wildcat team this fall! They are
going to be in there fighting every minute of every
game, and they're going to win with the support of
the student body. We'll get Wake Forest this year!

Davidson College is very fortunate in getting the
type of speakers they are able to secure. Dr. Mims is
one of the finest that they will have. Everyone
should hear him.

The improvements in the walks, buildings, and
grounds is gratifying. The walk to the post-
office from Chambers is one thing that has been
needed for several years. And now we won't have to
count the steps from Chambers to the post-office via
the “Y” building and the other way.

THE OLD STORY

Speeches, warnings, talks, friendly counsel,
all have been given at one time or another on
the subject of getting a good start, in the
present school term. My writing on this sub-
ject will probably only add to the general im-
pression that all of it is just so much talk. But

an attempt will be made, because it is the pre-
eminent thing at this time. .

No one will deny that in every field of en-
deavor, regardless of what type it may be, a
good beginning gets one a long way along the
road to success in the project. Two Seniors
were talking together on différent subjects
and the conversation finally drifted to scholar-
ship, and to the honors to be achieved in this
field. One of them remarked that his average
was not as high as he could have made it had
he only tried a little harder. The other replied
that his trouble lay along a little different
line; that he had really done his best during
his Sophomore and Junior years, but that he
had not started during his first year. He said
that this was a terrible handicap to overcome,
and that he only wished someone had told him
during his first days at Davidson to start out
«strong.

He probably had received that advice on his
entrance to the college but it had made so
little an impression on him that he had for-
gotten it. Nevertheless it is true that if one

_feally digs in at first and makes a running
Start in his.work, the rest of the time is com-
paratively smooth sledding. That applies par-
ticularly to the new men. A good impression
at first is a great help at later times.

GREETINGS

This is a very unnecessary piece of writing,
because everyone realizes that at Davidson
there is always a welcome, and also because
greetings have been given much more fluently
and more expressively than we are able to
give them here. Nevertheless, may we add our
word of welcome to those already extended,
and say to the new men that there is a place
for them here, and that they have only to
take it.

May we also take this opportunity to hope
that you “had & good summer,” wherever you
may have been and whatever you have been

privileged to do. Interesting are the accounts
of summer vacations, and possibly none are
so fascinating and varied as those told by
Davidson men on their return from summer
trips, from vacation work, from all the places
at which they have spent the three months
interim.

There is one regret that we have in saying
this little greeting, that being that we do not
this year have the pleasure of seeing and as-
sociating with those members of the Class of
1931, the Seniors who graduated last year, and
are now facing the problems of life in a real
way. They have our best wishes for success—
and they may need them, from all we can
hear.

Let us add to what has been said in various
other placess, for the especial benefit of the
Freshmen, that a spirit of cordiality and
friendliness exists on the Davidson campus; it
is a natural thing, because that amiability is.

they meet, they converse with each other

DES ENTRE FILETS

Another “ghost” industry has been added to the
list of brewing, carriage making, whaling, certain
forms of mining, and other industries regulated to
the limbo of American economic life. A few days

ago the last of the fifteen manganese plants in the
United States was forced to shut down, This latest

ghost differs from the others in that it was caused

by Russian “dumping” and not by natural causes.

American producers claim that the Russians are
placing the ore on the market at prices below the
cost of production. The Russians are accused with
attempting to ruin the American producers and then
take the entire United States market, which amounts
to 700,000 tons annually used by the steel producers
of this coutnry, without competition from local man-
ganese plants. The Russians are charging the great
loss which they are undergoing to the expense of
developing an export market. The American pro-
ducers are crying for an embargo on Russian man-

ganese or else an increase in the tariff.

In this one sees the inefficient local producer cry-
ing for protection against the foreign producer.

One of the important features of concentrated
wealth is the extent to which it enables rich men to
keep up their estates as semi-public parks which
everybody enjoys.

Dr. Willford I. King.

An account of the trip of War Commissioner
Voroshiloff of the Soviet Republic gives one an in-

On this trip the War Commissioner inspected the

not forced. Men speak to each other when sight into what bolshevism means and how it works.

courteously, not because they have to but be-
cause that is the feeling that exists here.

There is a rule requiring the Freshmen to
speak to everyone they meet on the campus.
This is a new. rule and is not intended to force
the new men to do anything that is distaste-
ful to them, but is rather a guide to help them
to become better acquainted with the cus-
toms here. It is to be hoped that the rule will
not make the greeting less cordial.

THE IMMORALITY OF UGLINESS

T had, recently, the great pleasure and grat-
ification of listening to a beautiful and im-
pressive talk delivered by a man of learning
and culture, on the subject. “The Immorality
of Ugliness.” He spoke sincerely and convinc-
ingly because he believed what he was say-
ing; in fact, he knew what he was saying. It
is doubtless true that most of us have been
taught, and therefore can readily recognize;
the ugliness of such traits as dishonesty, ill
temper, injustice in its many forms, indiffer-
ence, intolerance, unfairness toward our fel-
low men, bigotry, and egotism, and probably
many. other attributes of a distinctly selfish
nature. Each of these characteristics can
easily be classed as an “immoral ugliness.”

But how many of us, I wonder, have. ever
realized the immorality of the ugliness of our
physical surroundings. I mean by this our en-
vironment, the places in which we live, our
homes. The very room in which we live,
move, and have our being is sending forth—
though we may not be conscious of it—a very
decisivétimpression of some kind. The love of
beauty is an emotion that is almost holy, so
what must the lack of it involve. We must
first recognize ugliness before we can appre-
ciate that which is lovely and refining.

“The Immorality of Ugliness!” Think of it!
A famous author has said: “Beauty is the in-
dex of a larger fact than wisdom.” .

Mrs. N. T. Smith,

Supervisor of Dormitories.

CHANGES

There are several changes in this issue of
the paper which will, unless another alteration
is made necessary, be carried throughout the
year. It is hoped that they will meet with the
approval of the student body. Any suggestions
or remarks concerning them will be welcomed.

First, the size of the paper has been in-

‘creased an inch each way, making the columns

one-sixth of an inch wider. At first it was de-
cided to add another column, but this was dis-
carded as being impractical.

Secondly, the kind of type used in the head-
ing, THE DAVIDSONIAN, has been changed.
It was decided that the Old English bold was
a little too heavy for.the rest of the printing.
Two new column-head cuts will appear in this
or in the next issue, one for the humorous
column and the other for the sports column.

The policy of having the publication out by
Wednesday is to be continued this year if pos-
sible. Apologies are extended in the event that
it does not get out by.that time the first issue.

factories, mifies, construction camps and other en-
terprises in Siberia as well as the Red army. Every-
where he discussed various problems and showed
how they fitted into the Five Year Plan.

At the place where the Kuznetz steel plant is under
construction Voroshiloff told the workers: “Your
construction is being watched not only by the pro-
letariat of our union but by the whole international
working class. This is because along with other
giants of the Soviet industry your metalluryic plant
will decide the question of who shall prevail and
will arm the international proletariat for the struggle
for socialism,

There is no crime problem in our land today, mur-
ders, thefts, lust and lawlessness to the contrary
notwithstanding,

Rt. Rev. Ernest V. Shayler.

The present government of Chile recently dis-
tinguished itself by putting down a revolution, a
thing almost unheard of in a Latin-American country.
This extraordinary achivement was made possible
through the use of the air force.

Aggressive fighting for the right is the noblest

sport in the world.
Vek

Theodore Roosevelt.

Governor William H. (Alfalfa Bill) Murray again
comes to the front but as yet he hasn’t used his
troops. At the Chicago jubilee of the American Fed-
eration of Labor he turned upon the bankers. They
should be barred from serving on the Federal Re-
serve Board, the Oklahoma governer contends. “I’m
for making the banks lend to manufacturers and
producers, so that business can go ahead.” At pres-
ent he has not suggested using troops as he did in the
opening of a bridge and in the closing of the oil wells.

’

Despite the severity of the crisis, wage cuts have
been confined to the smaller companies or the mis-
managed industries.

William Green.

On October 21, 1929, Professor Fisher, Yale eco-
nomist, declared: “I believe that we will have a
ragged market for a few weeks and that then we
shall see the beginning of a mild bull market that
will gain momentum next year.”

T certainly have no illusions about my personality,
or attractiveness.

Rudy Vallee.

And now good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We
will be all up in the air again next week. Maybe
we'll settle the unemployment problem, or the ques-
tion of the negro. Probably the (mu-latter). This is
STATION-E-R-Y, and we are broadcasting at the
rate of 100 motorcycles. Putt! Putt! My lad!

Well, Carbolic Acid. Them’s our sediments.

MIRTH OF A NATION
H-E-L-L-O _E-V-E-R-Y-B-O-D-Y

Greetings to the right of us,
Greetings to the left of us;

“Howdy's” to the back of us,
“Hey's” to the rest of us,

Storming and thundering.

Boarding house managers

rat Yea Wald Yen eed Bex Sat) . ob Ue 9 4s 8

Storming and thundering

WHOA! (is me). It’s a good thing I stopped when
I did. The third verse would have been all dote. But
the idea in the second verse is supposed to be mod-
ernistic. You’re supposed ‘to read between the lyin’s

. But to return to what I was saying before I
began:

Back again . .. still dizzy trying to figure how the
summer passed so quickly .... the same old place
.... good old place. +55: Lots of changes.... but I
can still recognize many of the old laundrymarks. . .

Rumple .... girlish-like with its new coat of paint
.... BUT THE SHOP!....and the STUDENTS’
STORE! .... somebody evidently started in.... to

paint the town red....

Maybe I should explain .... the title I have chosen
for this column... . and the nautical little sketch...
I wish I could ,... but I don’t know .... The in-
scription “.... CABBAGE AND KINGS—”....
means I have no particular .... subjects (or objects)
of which .... or about which I intend to write....
The MIRTH OF A NATION .... well.... 1 think
that must have been the outcome... . of a night-
mare.... that’s my story anyway .... and I'll stick
to it.... because I’m not a “second-story man”...
Having no explanation of the ship... . I'll do the
next best thing..... I’ll dedicate it to someone....
. To Christopher Columbus, nautically eh-steemed
Explorer, who took the words right out of my en-
cyclopaedia when he said, “Four Pintas equal One
Galleon,” I dedicate the above drawn ship, there-
with including all that it “holds,” any profits that
may be realized from its sails (sales), and just for a
good turn, the steering wheel Good old Crisco Lum-
bus! Aufwiederzehn.

“Sail on,” I shout derisively. (Chris gets wind of
what I say, and sails on).

Every column is supposed to have a policy. I have
taken out a Prudential one. I was undecided about
what plan I would adopt. First I considered the
Morris plan, but later I decided on the Russian Five-~
Year Plan, (but this is not to be confused with AL-
COHOLSHEVISM, because I don’t believe in that).
Someone, I believe it was Pope, said that “Whatever
is, is right.” One of my plans will be to prove con-
clusively that whatever is, is wrong. Another plan
is to settle, once and for all, the gangster problem,
the wheat surplus problem, the race prejudice prob-
lem, and many others; (“The half can never be
told”). After showing that truth is snsots as strange
as fiction, I shall proceed to show that what America
needs most today is not a good five-cent cigar, but
something to put old razor blades in. Furthermore I
shall prove that the customer is never right, and that
gentlemen prefer brunettes. -

Now that I have stated all my plans, the next thing
in order is to forget them. I shall probably end up by
proving that columnists are a sorry laf anyway. As
Will Rogers once said: “A columnist is not supposed
to be serious, nor to know much—.”

Not to mention the Scotchman who wants to know
if a fellow who wins a hundred thousand dollars in
a lottery gets his purchase price back too.

The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,
A line of cars winds slowly o’er the lea:
A pedestrian plods his absent-minded way,
And leaves the world quite unexpectedly.
—Judge.

We suggest, for an Elegy-ble title: The Vanish-
ing American.

But the pedestrians are vanishing in other places
besides America. Scores of people are run down by
autos in Russian streets every day, and nobody pays
the slightest attention. ... It seems that Plucky Rus-
sia is determined to be up-to-date at any cost. Which
reminds us of the story....

Of the man who was riding in a taxicab in New
York City last summer. As the cab raced down the
busy street, another cab suddenly hove into view,
coming! like mad straight toward them. The man was
paralyzed with fright, but what could he do? His
driver, a very tough looking specimen, appeared as
cool as a hibernated polar bear. Instead of stopping,
he simply increased his speed and charged ahead.

Finally, just a split second before the cars would
have collided, the other car swerved to one side,
barely avoiding a terrible smash-up. The driver of
the first cab turned around to his petrified passenger,
and grinned:

“IT knew dat guy wuz yellow!”

Some people make their own way, and others have

Life’s Little Consolations

Napoleon wasa penniless second lieutenant in 1785,
and 1804 he was crowned emperor.

John Bunyan, author of “Pilgrim's Progress,” was
a traveling tinker.
