ae + + ee
SATURDAY
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 23, 1931 No. 25

Installation Exercises
of Y.M.C.A. Take Place
Sunday EveningAprill9

Dean Rusk, Roger Enloe, and Sec-
retary Carl Pritchett All Make
Short Talks

The installation service of the Y. M. C. A.
was held last Sunday evening, and proved
to be singularly impressive. The string quar-
tet as a prelude softly played “Angel Ga-
briel,” and the audience sang in unison sey-
eral appropriate songs. Dean Rusk read a
passage from the Scriptures and called on
Norman Raies and, Andy Bird for prayers.
Mrs. G. R. Vowles,sang a solo entitled “A
Clean Heart.”

Dean Rusk, the retiring president, made
a short talk on “The Passing of the Old and
a Hope.” The retiring president expressed
his gratitude to the cabinet that has upheld
him so faithfully, and brought attention to
the successful Barium Springs campaigh that
the “Y” conducted last year. He also thanked
the friends of the “Y” for their interest and
all those who have used their musical talents
and helped in other ways. He declared that
the aim of Christ is not in ordinary life, but.
that every day life must be raised up to a
level with it. In concluding he made the
wish that the new cabinet would co-operate
with their president as well as those who as-
sisted him,

In response, Roger Enloe congratulated
Dean Rusk and his cabinet ‘on their record
for the past year. He declared that their
achievements would always be an inspiration
to him. He stated that the road that lay be-
fore him was not easy, but that children of
weakness can accomplish all things if they
trust in the Lord.

Carl Pritchett, in his subject, “The Force
and the Field,” asserted that the “Y” is the
normal spiritual expression of 600 men, a
union, with the purpose of creatifig a whole-
some Christian atmosphere, and to do
Christ’s work effectively. He affirmed that
the men assembled here at Davidson are the
finest in the South, and added that the sun
never sets on Davidson men. As regards to
the field, he declared that its scope was un-
limited. He said that he agreed with Vance

(Continued on page 5)

Debaters Close Year Col. Little Inspects
With Four Victories) Davidson Battalion

| —

| The R. O. T. C. Department of this col-
lege had its annual inspection on Tuesday

j and Wednesday, April 21 and 22, with Col.

| James M. Little, of Winston-Salem, serving

Last Team, Jones and Rule, Re-
turned Friday From Southern
Tour

The Davidson varsity debating team ended |

as the inspection officer. The report of Colo-

its official season last Friday, April 17 Jas, | Pel Little will be filed with the War De-
A.’ Jones and William Rule returned from | Pattment at Washington to determine the
the Southern trip after being away for a rating of the local unit for this year.

week, and having debated with the Univer-
sity of Florida, at Agnes Scott College, in

Decatur, Ga., the University of the South in| ‘

Colonel Little is now attached to the 81st

| Division of the organized reserves, and is

with the infantry branch of the service. Dur-

Sewanee, Tenn., and Southwestern Univer-| "& the Mexican disturbance he was with
Sewanee, i | ‘
sity at Memphis, Tenn. They were defeated | the 28th Infantry on the Mexican border,

by the University of Florida by a 2-1 score

and won a decision over Southwestern by |

a 1-0 score. There was no decision for the
debate at Sewanee, the debate being held sole-
ly for pleasure and study of the question.
The Davidson debaters upheld the affirma-
tive in these three debates. The question that
was used by this team and all the others in
the different debates was, “Resolved: That
the nations of the world should adopt a policy
of free trade.”

Another team composed of R. D. Powell
(Continued on page 5)

Religious Leader From
Cornell Visits Davidson

Prof. R. H. Edwards, head of the united
religious work at Cornell University for the
past ten years, was a visitor at Davidson Col-
lege this week, as the guest of Dr. Price
H. Gwynn, of the college’s educational de-
partment. Professor Edwards is on a tour
of the South, visiting his friends in various
educational centers, while taking a brief va-
cation.

Ten years ago Professor Edwards was as-
signed the task of directing the work of all
the religious faiths at Cornell. So harmonious
and effective has his system been that the
University of Chicago has obtained his serv-
ices to head a summer conference on student
counselling and student guidance. Other in-
stitutions and leaders have also recognized
him as a leading authority and a pioneer in
his field of work.

JACK McKINNON WINS OVER
ROB’T GORREL IN RACE FOR

PRESIDENT

New President Was Elected on
Third Ballot, Defeating Six
Other Candidates

Next year the position of president of the
Senior class will be occupied by Jack Mc-
Kinnon, who was elected to that honor last
week. The nomination committee set forth
as candidates Calder, McConnell, McKinnon,
Raker, and Welch. Gorrell and O’Hanlon
were nominated from the floor. On the first
ballot this group was reduced to Gorrell,
McKinnon, and Raker. After the second bal-
lot Gorrell and McKinnon were left in the
race.

McKinnon, from Jacksonville, Fla., was,
on the third ballot, elected to the presidency
of the class. Jack is a good student and a
leader in several campus activities. He is a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity, the International Relations Club, and
Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary fraternity
for those students interested in classical lit-
erature in Greek and Latin. He is also on the
“Y" Board of Control, the Junior Speaking
Committee, and is this year secretary and
treasurer of the Junior class. He is on the
business staff of the “Davidsonian,” is a
Junior football manager, and is on the var-
sity track team. During his Freshman year
Jack was also on the Freshman football
team.

The Junior class is now electing its stu-
dent council representative for next year.
The_.candidates for this office are Baker,
Brannon, Brown, Gorrell, McConnell, Mathis,
Miller, Morton, O’Hanion, Raker, Spier, and

Wiley. i

OF CLASS OF 732

Four Managing Editors
Appointed to Serve on
ew Davidsonian Staff

Sports, Feature, and Associate
Editors Selected Along With
Managing Editors

Four managing editors have been selected
to serve on next year’s Davidsonian staff.
These men were elected at the last meeting
held by the former staff. The new men are
FE. O. Gurrant, D. D. McBryde, R. L. Mc-
Callie, and C. F. Myers.

Ed Guerrant, of Pasadena, Calif., is a
member of the Phi Delta Theta social fra-
ternity and of the Reporters’ Club; Duncan
McBryde, Linden, N. C., is assistant editor
of the Yowl and a member of the Reporters’
Club; Bob McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.,
is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fra-
ternity, varsity track squad, and wearer of
the Freshman numeral; Charlie Myers, of
Greensboro, N. C., is a member of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, var-
sity tennis team, and vice-president of the
“Y.” Bruce Sugg, athletic editor, is a mem-
ber of Phi Gamma Delta, and is an assistant
cheer leader.

The remainder of the staff has been ap-
pointed. These are D. G. Stephenson, Cov-
ington, Ga. and W. W. Franklin, feature
editors; and E. C. Dwelle, W. S. Lea and
W. H. Matthews, associate editors.

This new staff begins its duties with this
week’s issue.

and when the United States entered the
World War, Colonel Little was detailed for
services overseas.

While at Davidson, the visiting inspector
was the guest of Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott,
commandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C.
batallion. On Wednesday Colonel Little was
the guest of honor at a luncheon given to
him by the members of Scabbard and Blade,
the honorary military fraternity.

For the past three years Davidson has won
an excellent rating from the War Depart-
ment, and as the report of this inspection
has not been officially announced yet, the re-
sults are anticipated with much interest.

Dr. McConnell Delivers
Address at Darlington

Davidson Dean is Principal Speaker
on Founder’s Day Program

On last Thursday, April 16, Dr. J. Moore
McConnell, dean of the faculty of Davidson,
went to Darlington School for Boys, at
Rome, Ga., to deliver an address there dur-
ing the Founders’ Day celebration at that
institution. Dr. McConnell, who made the
principal address at this celebration, was in-
vited to do this by Dr. C. R. Wilcox, who
is the president of Darlington.

The Davidson dean used as his subject,
“Founders and Their Foundation.” His ad-
dress featured the commemoration of the
26th anniversary of the institution he was
visiting. The Founders’ Day celebrations be-
gan in 1922 when Darlington School began
a campaign for Greater Darlington and each
year following, it has been their custom to
have prominent men from the outstanding
colleges and universities of the South to de-
liver addresses to the students on this occa-
sion. Since that time Darlington has been
operating on a larger scale and has been
taking a leading role in the preparatory work
of the South. °

Vesper Services to
Be Held Outdoors

Beginning this Sunday night, the Y. M.
C, A. will begin a series of outdoor vesper
services, which will be held on the lawn
back of the Philanthropic Hall. Sam Wiley,
of the newly elected cabinet, will have charge
of the meetings, and the various classes will
conduct the programs.

This Sunday’s program will be conducted
by members of the Junior class, while mem-
bers of -each of the other classes will have
charge of the programs for May 3, 17, and 24.

The annual Mother's Day program on
May 10, and the annual commencement ser-
mon, which is to be delivered by Rey. James
L. Fowle, D.D., of Chattanooga, Tenn., con-
clude the Y. M. C. A.’s program for the
semester.

The services will be at the usual hour, 6
o'clock.

Coming Lecture

Friday night at 7:30 p. m., in the
“Y” Social Center, Mr. E. B. Forbis
of the Chemical Construction Com-
pany, Charlotte, will deliver a lec-
ture on “Chemistry.” This is one of
the Vocational Guidance Lectures
sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. on the
campus and is the fourth of a series
of eight talks. Mr. Forbis, one of
the foremost chemists in the Caro-
linas, will speak to all students in-
terested in this subject.

D. G. MARTIN IS ELECTED
EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN IN
RECENT STUDENT VOTING

Professor Rene Hadree

From N.C.C.W. Speaks
To Students on France

His Lecture, Given Entirely in
French, Was Illustrated by
Colored Pictures

On last Monday night, Professor Rene
Adree, a professor of French at N. C. C. W.
in Greensboro, N. C., spoke to the students
of French at Davidson College Monsieur
Adree was invited by Le Certle Francaise
to speak upon his early life in France. Along
this line he spoke very interestingly and in-
formingly.

He was born in Tourraine, a beautiful
land which he described to the listeners in
order that they might understand better the
life of the inhabitants. Then he told of his

school life.

The first. school that he attended was di-
vided into two parts: one for the girls and
one for the boys. Not only in their recrea-
tion, but also in their studies, they were
segregated. At this school the chief amuse-
ments were marble shooting, top spinning,
and playing “cracking the whip.”

From this school, however, he went to a
“high school” at which he did not enjoy
himself at all. At this place he knew no
one, and, as he said, it was a prison to him.

However, at the third school, Monsieur
Adree had a very enjoyable time. The chief
amusements here Rugby
football.

were soccer and

After telling of his school life, Monsieur
Adree showed two sets of colored pictures
of French life. The first set consisted of a
group of chateaus, about each of which he
talked, describing it; and the second set con-
sisted of pictures of French life.

Music Department Will
Cooperate in Observing
Music Week at Davidson

Atwater Kent Contest and Promi-
nent Organist Will Be Features
of Program

“The Music Department of Davidson Col-
lege will co-operate with the National Bu-
reau for the Advancement of Music in ob-
serving Music Week,” according to Profes-
sor Ernest J. Cullum, head of the Music
Department at Davidson. The local functions
will be sponsored by Mu Beta Psi, national
honorary music fraternity, and the week dur-
ing which special features will be given at
Davidson is that ending May 3.

It is planned to bring a prominent con-
cert organist to Davidson for a recital, and
during that week, Davidson students who
will be entrants in the fifth national Atwater
Kent contest will publicly compete in the
auditorium of Chambers Building.

The Atwater Kent contest offers great
opportunities to its contestants. One young
man and one young woman, between the
ages of 18 and’ 25, will be selected by com-
petition in each city or community. These
will then be entered in a state competition,
from which the winning young man and
young woman will go to represent their
state in a district audition, of which there
will be five. From each district, two con-
testants will be selected to contest in the
national finals to be held in New York in
December. All winners of district auditions
will receive substantial rewards. The win-
ners of first place in the national competi-
tion, one young man and one young woman,
receive five thousand dollars each and two
years’ tuition in an American conservatory.
Last year, George Pardington won the North
Carolina competition. Several students have
already announced their intention to enter
the contest this year.

Selected on Second Ballot, Winning
Over Matthews, Dwelle and Lea

NEW EDITOR IS ATHLETE

Martin is Prominent in Campus and
Social Activities

Grier Martin, of Covington, Ga., has been
by Davidson College students as
1931-1932 editor-in-chief of the weekly news-
paper published by the students of David-
son, Martin was elected over W. H. Mat-
thews, of Marlin, Texas; E. C. Dwelle, Jr.,
of Charlotte, and W. S. Lea, of Knoxville,
Tenn. Martin was elected on the second
ballot, Dwelle and Lea being eliminated on
the first, and Matthews on the second.

chosen

Martin, Dwelle, and Lea have served as
managing editors of the publication during
the past year, and Matthews has handled
the sports page. These four men were nom-
inated for the editor’s position by the edi-
torial staff of the Davidsonian.

Martin's election as editor is the culmina-
tion of three years of work on the paper,
during which time he was’a reporter his
Freshman and Sophomore years, and man-
aging editor his Junior year. Also during
his Freshman year his ability was recognized
by the fact that he was elected to be a
member of the Reporters’ Club.

Grier Martin is outstanding not only along
literary lines, but also socially, athletically,
and in campus leadership. He is a member
of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity,
and of the “D” Club. He made his numeral
in basketball his Freshman year, and during
the past season played center on the varsity
basketball team, earning the “D” in that
sport. In addition to these honors, Martin
was secretary and treasurer of the 1929-
1930 Sophomore class; is a member of the
Quips and Cranks staff, and next year will
be in charge of the Freshman »work as a
member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.’ Martin
is also on the track squad as a high jumper.

The new editor succeeds J. Wilson Mc-
Cutchan, who has been editor of the David-
sonian during the past year.

Dr. Hood and Party
Will Travel Abroad

Will Sail New York on the Steam-
ship “Paris’ ’April 13

On the thirteenth of April, 1931, the steam-
ship “Paris” sails from the harbor of New
York, bound for Havre, France. This marks
the beginning of Dr. Hood’s European tour.
Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood, accompanied
by their daughter and Miss Corinne Wag-
ner, Mrs. Hood’s sister, are planning to
spend their summer traveling amid scenes
of classical and historical renown.

Dr. Hood and his family, when they land
at Havre, will procure an automobile, in
which they will tour parts of France, Ger-
many, and England. They are going to visit
for a while a friend of Dr. Hood's, who is
a colonel in the British army. He lives in
the town of Grasmere, situated in the famous
Lake district. of England. There they will
tramp over the spots where Wordsworth,
Coleridge, Southey, and the other well-
known “Lake Poets” lived, dreamed, and
wrote. They will gaze upon the scenes that
enchanted the hearts of those great men and
brought forth those verses we all know,
love and praise. !

Dr. Hood is going to return to America
during the latter part of July, but the other
members of the party will remain until later
on during the summer.

TWO BUSHELS O’BONES

Bryan, Ohio—(IP)—Students here are
studying two bushels of bones dug up in a
swamp by ditch diggers in the | belief that
they are the bones of a huge mastodon. Ex-
cavation has been stopped while Ohio State
and University of Michigan authorities in-
vestigate.
