N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MARCH 5, 1931

The Davidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

=

=———=—=—=—=—=—————
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

————————eEeeeeees

. WILSON McCUTCHAN....-....-..-------- Editor-in-Chief

. A. CANNON __--Busi Manager
oo

EDITORIAL STAFF

E. C. DWELLE, JR Managing Editor
w. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
“WwW. H. MATTHEWS..-- Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD- News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES. Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON....-.--....------------------<-- Review Editor
P, R. ALDERMAN.. -Associate Editor
tyr BLACK....-...------------------- Associate Editor

. C. RAGIN-. pee Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

P. .-Assistant Business Manager
A. Assistant Business Manager
J. Assistant Business Manager
A. Subscription Manager
P. licitor
R. Wea cee Os a Rus Suse i Ccab uae cs cuaneSOHuitor:
A. M. MANSON....-..----------------------------------! solicitor
A. L. MEBANE ...----------------------------- licitor
W. R. MORROW. Solicitor

P REPORTERS’ CLUB .
Ss. S. Ee Vcssucdsataddcsccccccasdubadasdcondocnseess President
D. G. STEPHENSON...----.---------------=----- Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD..------------------- Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN

J. G. BERRY G. E, BAILEY

A. R. D . E. BOYD

N. B. . G. DUNKLIN

E. O. GUERRANT . T. HANCOCK

. E. LAKE R. L, McCALLIE

. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. ERS

V. F. MULLISS H, F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

C. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

MARCH 5, 1931

No matter how many millions a man has in
the bank, if he doesn’t contribute more to life
than he takes ‘out he is a beggar.

Bishop Herbert Shipman.

SUGGESTIONS °

Don’t miss any of Dr. Swan’s talks next week.
He should have a message that will interest and
prove valuable to every man on the campus. He
is nationally known.

If you haven't paid up your Y pledge do so as
soon as possible. Upperclassmen know how scarce
money is around spring vacations.

Monday. A
for work;

Track opens with full time trainin
goodly crowd of men have report
there could be more. :

Students sometimes fail to appreciate the Stein-
way piano in the auditorium. It is really an ex-
pensive instrument. Incidentally, it wouldn’t hurt
it to be polished a bit.

Conventions and conferences have been taking
their toll of students for the past two or three
weeks, It is another way to make Davidson better
known in the South and Nation.

Seniors are busy trying to get positions for next
year. We wish them luck, and with the depression
they probably need it.

“The Yowl” is out!

THE SENIOR AUCTION

Despite the absence of definite plans,
rumors fill the air concerning a Senior Auc-
tion sale. The exact nature and content. of
the event are not known. Its purpose is self-
evident.

In the past it has been hard for Seniors to
dispose of various articles which are funda-
mentally and basically of value to the col-
lege student alone. Few men ever essay to
carry their chairs, desks, and ‘other furn-
iture home with them. An exchange or sale
of these would be of value, not only to grad-
uates but also to under-classmen.

We imagine the terms of such a sale
would be cash in hand, paid. This would
have the two-fold advantage of giving the
Seniors the money at the time they needed
it most, and it would also reduce the cost
to the others. Books would not be in the
minority of articles to be disposed of.

What is needed then more than anything
else is a good ballyhoo man, one with
enough of the old time blood in him to
knock sales down under the hammer with
expedition. Nothing makes a sale drag more
than a reticent and poor auctioneer. —

We can see no good reason why this
should not become one of the big campus
events in the spring term. Every man in the
student body should be able to find some-

.thing that would interest him, from type-
writers to pennants.+ Its financial success
can be determined only by trial; it could
hardly prove a failure.

VETERAN MONEY GOES INTO
CIRCULATION

Already the veterans of the world war
are obtaining their money which the legis-
lative bodies of the Federal Government
granted them over the veto of the President
and against the advice of the Secretary of
the Treasury. The passage of this bill defi-
nitely informed Mr. Hoover of the fact
that his party has forsaken his policies.

One can readily sympathize with the
President; he is not the first leader who
has had his support torn down, Whether he
was right or wrong does not alter the fact
that much of his influence will be lost as a
result of his unsuccessful veto. At the same
time it is again emphasized that no one man
can hope to determine the legislation of the
United States of America. Incidentally a
president, when he finds himself encom-
passed about with men who remind us of
Jim Reeds, has little chance of “putting one
over” on the country and still less opportu-
nity of attaining progressive measures that
are really needed.

There is one factor which cannot be dis-
puted in connection with the bonus, and
this is that several millons of dollars will
enter circulation. Regardless of the belief
that it will all eventually get back to the
place from which it’ started, this money
should relieve conditions in general. Many
men, who have families and who received a
compensation of about thirty dollars a
month while others worked at. home for
three hundred, will be benefitted. Citizens
and officials should not begrudge them.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

At the recent conference of Southern stu-
dents interested in International Relations
held at Duke University there was one
theme which continually repeated itself,
both at the hands of speakers and in discus-
sions. This was communism, or more prop-
erly the Soviet regime as now practiced, in
Russia.

There can be little doubt but what Soviet-
ism is meeting the greatest crisis that it has
yet had to face. If the “five year plan” suc-
ceeds, as Dr. Hoover who recently published
one of the leading works on conditions in
Russia believes it will, its importance as a
world force cannot be denied,

A satisfactory termination of this plan
will place that country on a firm and pros-
perous economic basis, the lack of which has
been Communism’s greatest hindrance. In-
disputable proof will have been given that
labor and capital can form a working com-
bination agreeable to both parties. It may
be expected that the laborer at large will
seek emancipation in the new order of af-
fairs.

Professor Corwin, MacCormick Professor
of Jurisprudence at Princeton University,
pointed to Soviet Russia as the great men-
ace of China’s future, implying that India is
also in immediate danger in case of British
withdrawal of interests. The China of old is
fading into a new Republic with newer
ideals and customs.

Naturally the question arose as to the
strange contrast of Chinese ancestor wor-
ship and Communistic ideals. Dr. Hoover
pointed out that the tie between these is no
less mystifying to the historian than the
readiness with which Russians, who com-
bine the East and the West, adopted the
present regime.

Stalin, the speaker emphasized, is not a
Russian by birth or nationality. At the same
time he is a man of rare ability and force.
The “five year plan” depends on. him for its
successful fulfillment. If Stalin stands the
strain there can be little doubt that Soviet
Russia will eventually be an established
power in history. If it fails .. no one knows!

By no means the least interesting part of
this lecture on Russia was the description of
the secret police power of the state. An or-
ganization that has at its instant disposal
some four regiments of infantry, two or
three ‘batteries of field artillery, and a
squadron or two of airplanes are not to be
sneezed at. Every railroad station and each
small town has its secret policeman.

Either fortunately or unfortunately, Dr.
Hoover implied that there is little the rest
of the world can do except stand by and
await developments. History is in the mak-
ing; its trends cannot be thrown off their
route.

In any case there is sufficient argument in
these statements to prove to every man that
he should také an active interest in World
affairs and political events in other coun-
tries. A few hundred.years ago it would not
have been of vital importance to one coun-
try t obe wary of what another one did, To-
day, with modern communication and trans-
portation, no one nation can believe itself
isolated or removed from political and
economic effects caused by another. Intelli-
gent students of International Relations are
needed. :

“Fire! Fire! Old Chambers is burning!”

Boys were running out of the doors of the tra-
ditional edifice like rats escaping from some ter-
rible destroyer. Others who had *already dashed
out of the building waved their arms wildly,

emitting frantic cries but standing helplessly
about the blaze which was increasing terrifically
each minute. drunks, clothes and other personal
belongings were seen dropping continuously out
of numerous windows where the students had
rooms. The crackling of the burning old pine,
which formed much of the structural elements in
the’ building, could be heard for a great distance
around. The whole sky was tinted with crimson
and all around the horizon showed a reddened
glow. The flames were so great that the glare was
seen as far away‘as Gastonia and Statesville.

The bove is a brief description of the epochal
destruction of the old Chambers building, symbol
of Davidson’s past achievements and a monument
to a conservatively growing institution, which oc-
curred about 3:30 a. m., Monday, November 22,
1921. The beautiful old building had stood on the
campus since 1858.

Fortunately, the fire was quickly discovered and
no life was menaced and no one injured. The
majority of the students had taken out their per-
sonal effects before the blaze gained any head-
way although many boys had gone home for the
week-end and had not returned. The source of the
fire has never been revealed. Whether it was of
incendiary origin, is not known. Several theories
have been advanced as possible causes, such as,
friction of electric wires—loose matches—a burn-
ing cigaret thrown carelessly on the floor—but
none have been definitely accepted, However it is
reasonably believed that it started in the library
which was located in the center of the building on
the second floor, The people in Davidson very
graciously offered their homes to the college boys
and all were housed until more permanent quar-
ters were built.

It was about nine o’clock in the morning. After
the last effort had failed to stay the flames, a
bugler sounded the assembly call. The faculty and
entire student body was gathered about the old
college well near Phi Hall, and a hundred yards
away was a mass of smouldering ruins, what was
once the heart and center of Davidson College.
Only the gutted walls remained with the great
columns.

The occurred the most dramatic scene of all,
former President William Joseph Martin’s immor-
tal speech to the saddened audience. It was the
most electrifying address ever heard on the cam-
pus. Choking with emotion, the predecessor of Dr.
Walter Lingle, touched the very heart of every
person in that group with the following words:

“I am making an appeal to the Wildcats of
Davidson. I am appealing to the fighting spirit
that is in every loyal son of Davidson. I have seen
you on the football field with the ball on the five-
yard line. Did you quit? No!

“Men! Old Davidson stands with her back
against ruin. The disaster that has descended upon
us threatens the very life of our college. Unless
every son of Davidson rings true in this crisis, we
are ruined,

“I have a sublime faith in God that he has not
sent this desolation to harm the institution. I be
lieve that he has ordained that out of the ashes of
Old Chambers shall arise a more glorious pile than
Davidson ever contemplated.

“Old Davidson has died, but her re-birth de-
pends upon you. Men, FIGHT that Davidson may
live!”

The students and Doctor Martin were tired.
They had been doing their utmost to salvage
what they could during the time the fire was rag-
ing. They were worn out and sleepy. Doctor Mar-
tin had been ‘among those who had worked re-
lentlessly. He was disheveled and almost ex-
hausted, and there was a gray smudge of ashes
on his right cheek. But when he spoke the above
words to the Davidson student body, all his weari-
ness seemed to vanish, and he talked as with an
inspired force.

The response was immediate and true to David-
son form. All present pledged themselves to carry
on, in spite of the obstacles presented by the loss,
and with bared heads the student body sang “O
Davidson.”

Now, ten years later that re-birth is very evident.
Only a few years after that disastrous nightmare
of licking flames, we have seen the former exec-
utive’s predictions become a potent reality—with
our virtually new magnificent $600,000 structure.

At the time of the Civil War, when old Cham-
bers was erected, it was: the most inspiring and
perhaps the largest college structure in the State
The construction of it proved quite a problem
since the nearest railroad was twenty miles away.
The foundation and pillar stones were quarried at
Mount Mourne, at Lover’s Leap on Concord road
and in the Rocky river community. The lime was
mined from. Little mountain across the Catawba
river. The heavy timber was cut at Huntersville.

One hundred and thirty-three lived in old Cham-

MUSINGS 9 te
_,MATADOR _

VEREEN 41 te
BELL —usei-zisseoniae
Since I have turned fixer, I think the next thing

I will criticise shall be woman drivers: Do you

know, do you, that out of 3,867,542 deaths last

year by automobiles, a lot of the automobiles were

driven by women? No, you didn’t know that. I

had to tell you. Well, I’m not complaining, I had

just as soon tell you as not.

But that is something to worry over. Imagine a
lot of women riding around in automobiles killing
people. You wouldn’t believe it, just to look at a
woman that she would be changed into a reckless
(not wreckless—reckless) demon when placed un-
der a steering wheel. There seems to be something
in a woman that snaps as soon as she gets under
a steering wheel. A minute before she is soft-eyed
and demure, but before the door slams good, her
eyes go red, she lowers her head for the charge,
ruthlessly and with a deafening jangle puts the
car in what she thinks is low gear and shoots up
the street backwards. Beware ye slow of foot and
unwary, for no mercy shall be shown! At every
dying victim under the flying wheels she hurls a
victorious scream of insane pleasure. There is
nothing less than a brick building that will stop
the charge of a automobilized female; I have seen
rank amateuresses tear a mere wooden structure
to splinters; an experienced woman driver can
give a dirt bank trouble. t

Now it would not be quite so bad if our women
drivers would only run over people who needed
killing. It is deplorable to state however that re-
recent statistics show that no woman driver can
motor for the better part of an hour without kill-
ing more than two or three people who really ‘deep
down in their hearts deserved a good killing (such
as those that read over my shoulder or those that
I owe money).

I was talking to an old pal the other day. I think
maybe°we were discussing finances; when all of
a sudden, or two or three minutes before, cars
dashed by us in a frenzy, scurrying up side streets
and lamp posts. Pedestrians darted in nearby
stores with blanched faces (the pedestrians, not
the stores, had blanched faces). As we lingered I
counted two bank presidents, a covey of quail,
three Fuller brush men and a manhole cover rush-
ing by to safety.

“Old man,” said my friend (he called me that
because he thought I was going’ to write this
article synonymously), “old man, I think we had
better go inside this building. My wife is coming
down the street in her car.”

Practicing what we preached, we went in, and
from the comparative safety of the twelfth floor
we watched the wreckage being wreaked below.
He said that his wife was learning to drive. When
I asked him how long had she been learning he
said eight years next. May.

But that is only to illustrate. Here are my plans
to get rid of woman drivers: (This first is optional
but I thought the second one up all by myself).

Make all persons, before giving them permission
to drive, lift a 500 pound weight. In this way no ~
woman could drive. Of course, this would eliminate
men drivers too (except Earl E. Leiderman—and
he hasn’t a car) but I had rather be a live pedes-
trian (or any other kind of pedestrian for. that
matter( that'a dead motorist.

The second solution is two-fold in its purpose.
It is generally known that the United States wants
to get rid of its gangsters. Now we could take all
the gangsters (with their machine guns, tanks,
even battleships) and all the women drivers (with
their Fords, Buicks, and Austins; trucks are bar-
red), and place them along in a desert and let
them have it out. Woman drivers vs. Gangland. It
would be only a short while before the women
had killed all the gangsters, and would start back
home. Now here is my lovely pomt: Maybe they
couldn’t find their way back. How’s that? Women
drivers and gangsters done away with at one blow.

If the women do find their way back. they were
placed in the wrong desert; and we will have to
wait until a new set of gangsters develop—which
won't be long because a lot of folks say “scram”
now.

A permanent training school for Texas firemen to
be conducted at the A. & M. College of Texas is
contemplated in a bill just introduced in the State
Legislature by Senator C. S. Gainer.

Thomas Ustick Walter, 67, grandson of the archi-
tect by the same name who designed and built the
dome and right and left wings of the United States
Capitol as well as other government buildings, died
recently at Newport News. Walter was himself an
architect, as was his father.

bers the dormitories being in the wings of the
building on each side. The classrooms were in the
library were located on the second floor. The loss
was conservatively estimated at $250,000 and was
center of the three-story structure and the audi-
torium on the third floor. A valuable museum and
party covered by insurance.
