THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

Intercollegiate News

Cleveland—(IP)—Speaking here in the |

players feel the same way about it. When
Mike has his touchdown pants on the Tides-
men just can’t go wrong.

Once the trainer forgot his pants, and the

interest of a $2,500,000 endowment fund, | | team couldn’t get going until the final period.

Hamilton Holt, former editor of the Inde-

pendent and now president of Rollins Col-'!
lege, Winter Park, Fla., described the Rol- |
lins conference plan of education as a revolt |

| Thereafter he never forgot them.

DR. HOOD SI SPEAKS
(Continued from: page 1)

against the usual lecture and recital system. | being carried on along much the same lines
He declared that the traditional “cut- ~and- | as the way in which employers ‘rate their

dried lecture and quiz system”
dents into sponges and that “no one ever got
an education by being a sponge.”

“The conference plan is an adventure in
old-fangled education” he said. “It works
on the theory that the student’s mind is im-
mature, that frequently he does not know
how to study, that he most needs the pro-
fessor when he is preparing His lesson and

not after he has learned or failed to learn it. |

Instead of professors quizzing

turned stu- | employees.

In other words, the students
|there are rating their professors, of whom
there are 392. In this way the university
hopes to determine the status of its faculty.
This same system is being carried on in
many of the larger universities of today
so that the administrative staff can find out
the real worth of the instructors from the
students’ standpoint.

In order to:-keep Davidson College abreast

students, | of the modern movements in education, Dr.

President Holt said, the students quiz the} Hood expressed his intentions to ask that a

professors.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—Mrs.
Thomas A. Edison was a guest of honor at

the meeting of the Women’s Intercollegiate |
No- |

Association for Student Government,
vember 13 to 15.

Mrs. Edison believes that a co-ed should
take both practical and cultural subjects, in-

cluding in her curriculum economics, sociol- |
ogy, psychology, chemistry, philosophy, biol- membership are:

similar experiment be conducted here.

All in all, Dr. Hood stated, the meeting
was most interesting and instructive and
brought out many new points,

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
(Continued from page 1)
‘te rnities. Rusk belongs to Kappa Alpha, so-
cial fraternity.

Honorary fraternities in which he holds
Omicron Delta Kappa, na-

ogy, genetics, literature, history, art and mu-/|tional leadership; Scabbard and Blade, na-
sic. She does not consider higher mathemat- | tional military; Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic ;

ics necessary.

International Re-
ations Club, and Le Cercle Francais, hon-

| Eta Sigma Phi, classical ;

Professor Abraham Harris, acting head |orary French club. His scholastic record is
of the economics department at Howard Uni- jabove the average. In addition to his cur-

versity, Washington, D. C., has completed
the work for the doctor’s degree in eco-
nomics at Columbia University, and is be-
lieved to be the first Negro ever to receive
a doctor degree in that subject in this coun-
try.

Cultural standards for women have been
thoroughly revolutionized in the past cen-
tury, in the opinion of Dr. Blanche Colton

Williams, head of the English department |

at Hunter College, New York.

The following colleges and . universities |

lead in the number of holders of bachelor of
arts degrees among their alumni who are

listed in Who’s Who:

Ua PMatvard: sucess sue ee san n ane 1,374
2—Voale-* oo ccccccccoscccccscecc 937
Si Princetotie weve eee es 480
4—Michigan _____ PaeeeoE ow en weales 470
S==Colttinbia wen ee 402
O=Gormell sys scee e 401
Jem AMG Ste se tet ieee aie le 296
S—=Wiisconsin: 2cse2es ee ee 287
O= Brown have coe Soros 268
LOU sop Pas econ ee ots ue 261
DISS Meee eee es 2 eee aay 240
12U;; SiM. Acad: 220355200. 235

13—Dartmouth «22. ------_--2 222
14 Us SONY Acad; 22 186
1$=G@alitornia: 2222 8.2022) ee 185
16—Wesleyan —........._____________ 182
1/—Williams: ccs222 oe oe a 177
18—Miidianaes sssso se ea 176
19=Mopkins «i522. oh ees 171
20 GChicagoy io. 22ce eee 170

Percentage of living alumni in Who's
Who:

1—Hampden-Sydney _______
2—-Amberst: 222.2 ee

papa ge 7.45
C27

$—=Harvard 922. c28 22s eae Pasrssed 6.60
4==Wesleyany eee 3-2 La ean 5.98
S-——brinity (Conh))) 2222 sseeeeee eae 5.45
6—Yale is gs ia ees Ra 4.78
7--Hobartt: 22 se. ei 4.75
8 Wilhamsy 3252 otc an eas 4.54
9—Princeton ~____ aera 4:50
10—Havertord: (2422 tes ache 4.20
WI BTOWN oon Len erie 20a Meee 3.74
12—Hamilton 3.73
13—Bowdoin —___ ees 3.48
14 Centren-quceeenen =e an en ou cass 3.28
1S—=Wnionie ss sess sk one i 2.97
16—Marietta 2.70
17—Lafayette 2.65
18-—Dantmouth 2202522 oe 2.64
1OEE Tne Me oes ee ~-5-2.61
20—Earlham ____-- 2.58

It has been estimated that a“trip around
the world is worth more than a four-year
college education, and that it can be made
for a little less than the cost of one year in
college.

University, Ala—(IP)—To the grid fan

who sits in the stadium on a Saturday after-
noon and watches the Tide roll, the rusty,
threadbare trousers that Mike Szencsi, Ala-
bama trainer, wears are “just another pair
of pants.” But to the Alabama football play-
ers they are “touchdown pants.”

Mike no sooner would leave for a game
without these pants than he would leave be-
hind his iodine and adhesive tape. And the

ricular and extra-curricular activities Rusk

» . . . .
has been active in social work and business
jaffairs off the campus.

former custom of
by states, the or-
its candidates to

Departing from the
electing Rhodes scholars
ganization now requires
meet a state committee, and if successful
there they must meet the district committee
which selects the final winners from the state
finalists. In this district there were six states
included in the district division.

Upon the outcome of the Atlanta commit-

|}tee there were only two of the states en-

tered which failed to place a candidate, these
being South Carolina and Tennessee.

Rusk is the sixth Davidson man to win
a Rhodes scholarship and to enter Oxford
as a consequence. The list includes W. P.
Mills, ’03, now in China; Dr. Benjamin R.
Lacy, '06, president of Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond, Va.; Professor S. T.
McCloy, 718, Duke Waiveraity, Rev. Mc-
Dowell Richards, ’22, Clarkesville, Ga., and
son of Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson
faculty, and Rev. R. F, Davidson, ’23, now
a faculty member at Hiram College, Ohio.

DR. KIRK LECTURES HERE
(Continued from page 1)
values are not invalid in relation to general
culture,

The arguments of the first three lectures
were designed to show that while the prog-
ress of science has indicated the very insigni-
ficance of man’s earthly home in the gen-
eral scheme of the universe, “it has also
brought to light,” he said, “many remarkable
evidences of the immense importance of
man’s personality, inasmuch as the earth
is the home of the mind.”

By indirection, the speaker showed the
significance of mind as a factor to determine
reality through three positions of science:
comparative rarity of planetary systems; the
idea implied in the finiteness of space that
man would circumnavigate the realms of the
physical universe, and the knowledge that
science has that the universe began and will
end. “All this shows,” he said, “that we
must look for the rationality and purpose
and meaning of the universe in something
beyond nature, in human nature, in mind, in
a word, man’s personality which he declared
to be “the clue to reality.”

Two contributions of science, brought out
in successive addresses, were, “First, the
most profoundly significant contribution to
pure science at the present time is that each
step forward brings out more and more dis-
tinctly that the one element in the universe
which is permanent is mind,” and secondly,
“the remarkable positions at present reached

by science in the exploration of the universe
are entirely in keeping with the belief in a
personal God.” |
In his fourth lecture, Dr. Kirk said that |
man’s needs are not primarily intellectual, |
but are definitely moral, “and the only vital
religion must be one that can deliver a man
from himself, one which can effectively ad-
just him to the moral imperatives of the
universe. That is why,” he contended, “there |
is so much blind or confused religious curi-
osity abroad today. Men are trying to sat- |
isfy their spiritual needs in speculations about |
the validity of religion, and are as yet but |
dimly aware that what they need is a definite
revelation, a veritable act of God upon which | |
they can depend and in which they can con-
fide.”

|
|
Dr. (Kirk concluded his fourth dissertaiton |
by urging his hearers “not-to judge Jesus
by our imperfect notion of what God is, but |
to understand who and what God is, as|
we approach Him through Jesus.” |

This noted minister said a sense of de- |
pendence, a sense of not being right hetore |
that on which one depends, active efforts to |
bridge this gap by some form of atonement |
and sacrifice, and a longing for a human |
life that manifested God were the four ele- |
ments which must be satisfied in the revela-
tion of God through Jesus Christ, but chose |
the second element, a sense of not being
right before God, as the most representative,
and as the basis of his final lecture.

His conclusion was that the “most signi-
ficant way to realize man’s place beyond and
above nature is to reflect upon the impres-
sive fact that God holds man responsible for
his life and character, and that we are utter-
ly unable to help ourselves. We belong to
a fallen race, a lost race, and without God
we have no hope in the world,” was his clos-
ing remark.

In answer to numerous queries already
made, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson College, has announced that the
lectures would not be published in book
form.

Rubio Boys Make Hit as
American Undergraduates

Sons of Mexican President Begin
Successful College Careers

Atchison, Kans. (1P)—Adter two months
contact with Fernando and Guillermo
Ortiz Rubio, sons of the president of Mex-
ico, students at St. Benedict’s College
here have voted the boys “good fellows.”

The two young Mexicans, 17 and 19
years of age respectively, are known as
“Preddie’ ’and “Bill” by their fellow un-
cdergraduates,

Both are taking their freshman course
here, having spent a year at an academy
at Gettysburg, Pa., to learn the English
language after having been graduated
from private schools in Mexico City.

They are good students and are active
in campus life, where they have dates
and mix with the students freely.

The Rubio brothers came to this ccl-
lege mainly because their cousin, Salva-
dore Reyes Cortez, is a senior this year.

Cortez is acting as their guide and ad-
visor while they are freshmen,

Authorities Investigate

Norman, Okla. (IP)—Once more au-
thorities of the University of Oklahoma
are investigating into the activities of a
secret order on the campus, known since
its organization in 1907 as The D. D M.C.

For years the purpose of the organiza-
tion seemed to be that of playing harmless
campus pranks, but in 1918 the society
set out to prevent cheating in exaimuina-
tions. A few years later when the society,
masked, was attempting to discipline a
student, he shot two of its members, Uni-
versity authorities immediately outlawed
the order.

But the secret order seem; to have
flourished in spite of the authorities.

What we suffer from today is the subtle
undermining of the ethical senses such,
—Rabbi Samuel Schulman.

STATIONERY

STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS

NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON

MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

| scheduled. In the very near future the
| complete schedule will probably be an-

Baseball Schedule

Is Near Completion

The baseball schedule for Davidson this
year has as yet not been completed. Only

a few games have been definitely

‘nounced.

The season opens on April 2nd, when
Davidson plays Guilford College at Guil-
ford. Following this other games and their
tentative dates are as follows:

April 3—Davidson vs. Elon, at Elon.

April 6—Davidson vs. Carolina (?).

April 9—Davidson vs. Elon (here).

April 20—Davidson vs. N. C. State (?).

April 22—Davidson vs. Duke University

(here ?).

May 12—Davidson vs. N. C. State, at

Raleigh.

Davidson vs. Duke University,
at Durham.

Freshman Ages Remain
New Brunswick, N. J. (IP)—Ten cigar-
cette butt receivers have been placed at
| strategic points about the campus of the
|New Jersey State College for Women
here, by the undergraduate officers. They
are made of concrete.

Although comprehensive figures never
have been compiled, the trend in many
universities appears to indicate, he says,
that freshmen are as old, and in some
case& older, than in college’ generations
past.

At Harvard, Dean Riesen points out,
theaverage freshman of 100 years ago
was 16 years and 3 months. Fifty years
later, in 1880, the average freshman age
had advanced to 18 years and 7 months,
which is not far from today’s figures at
Harvard and most other institutions of
higher learning.

To die is only not to be;
And better to be dead than grievously
Living—Euripides.

Victory does not count nearly so much
as how you play the game.—Gene Tunney.

The all too common depreciation of
men in public service is at once shallow
and cruel.—Felix Franfurter.

War is like an earthquake or a flood:
after the disaster there is less material
wealth to hand on to succeeding genera-
tions. Whatever is destroyed is gone;
that is the immediate and certain result.
loster and Catchings.

The student must, while in school, come
ii contact with the opposite sex—this
daily meeting tends to abolish his fear.—
Prof. Vivien Fisher,

Nothing typnotises a women more
speedily than noble sentiments from the
mouth of a man.—William Lyon Phelps.

Walt (Whitman) did not bear a good
reputation in Philadelphia . . . yet dogs
followed him and ‘children loved him.—
James Huneker.

The man capable of growing rich in a
year should be hanged twelve months
beforehand.—Premier Benito Mussolini.

Alas, a woman’s bosom bears
But woman’s courage, a thing born for

tears.—Euripides.

Correction

The Davidsonian wishes to make
a correction of an error published in
the last issue just before the Christ-
mas holidays.

It was stated in the last issue that
that Junior Class won the intra-
mural volleyball competition. This
is an error as the Senior Class won
the championship in a playoff with
the Juniors, whom they tied for the
championship. The Sophomores and

“the Freshmen tied for third place as
the Freshmen defeated the Sopho-
mores in the last game played.

The final standings of the teams
in the intramural volleyball com-
petition:

Won Lost Pct.

Seniors: ~...--.---iscs 4 2 667
Juniors -.-- eoeuses 3 -500
Sophomores --_------_- 2 4 333
Freshmen __---------- 2 4 333

In an interview with the Daily Prince-
tonian, Princeton undergraduate publica-
tion, Dr. Henry Van Dyke denied having
called the award of the Nobel literature

prize to Sinclair Lewis “an insult to
America.”
Albert S. Tousley, of St. Paul, Minn.,

traveling secretary of Delta Phi, now
retiring, declares that so long as alumni
drink, fraternity men will drink and make
no bones about it.

Col. Edwin A, Parrott, Princeton’s (N.
J.) oldest resident, who as Colonel of the
First Ohio Infantry during the Civil War,
sat on the. platform with Abraham Linsoln
when the president delivered his Gettys-
burg address, recently celebrated his 100th
birthday anniversary.

Authorities in charge of the prepara-
tions for the Army-Navy football game
December 13, at New York, have declared
that they expect the gate receipts to
amount to a total of $1,250,000, the largest
football gate receipts in the history of
the game.

Sport experts are declaring that this
year’s football team at the University of
Utah is the best ever put in the field by a
Rocky Mountain Conference team. The
tcam is seeking intersectional games for
next year,

In all the Southland there is no state
more favored by nature as a harbor for
wild game than Mississippi, the American
Game Protective Association reports.

The happiest country would be one that
practiced socialism, having neighbors ad-
dicted to private enterprise—Beftrand
Russell.

FAMOUS
-REGAL SHOE

all one price, $6.60, on display
Saturday,,January 10th
NORTON’S BARBER
SHOP

By
J. Sadler Hayes

Charlotte Location
231 S. Tryon St.

SS

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson Theatre

January 12th and 13th
MIN AND BILL
WALLACE BEERY and MARIE DRESLER
January 14th, Wednesday
SUNNY |
MARLYN MILLER
January 15th, Thursday
PASSION FLOOR ,
KAY FRANCIS and CHARLES BICKFOR
January 16th, Friday
LIGHTNING.
WILL gana }

January 17th,

DOORWAY * TO H HELL
LEWIS AYERS

