THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

SIGMA PI SIGMA

(Continued from pgae 1)
versity of Chattanooga, West Virginia Uni-
versity, St. Lawrence University, Ohio Wes-
leyan, University of Kentucky, University of
Oklahoma, Parks College, William Jewell Col-
lege, Morningside College, University of Col-
orado, University of Washington, Lake Forest
College, College of Wooster, Wheaton College,
and the University of the Philippines. The

growth has been the most phenomenal of any |

honorary organization of which theré is any
record.

The aims and ideals as set forth by its found-
ers were so clearly and aptly put that not a
word has been changed in the ten years of its
existence. They are as follows: “To reward high
scholarship and promote interest in the ad-
vanced study of physics, to stimulate individ-
ual research, to enable its members to keep
pace with the progress of the science, and to
encourage a spirit of co-operation and friend-
ship among those who have displayed marked
ability in this study.”

The speaker paid an excellent eulogy to Dr. |

J. M. Douglas, the founder, in saying,?‘From
each chapter and each member of the national

organization comes praise to the foresight of |

the founders, and deep appreciation to these
men whose inspiration and untiring efforts led
to the founding and maintaining of the Alpha
Chapter. Special praise is bestowed on Dr. J.

M. Douglas, who was really the man back of |

the organization. I think that it is befitting -at
this point to pay an eulogy to Dr. Douglas for
his excellent work with the fraternity, and with
the physics department. He is not a research |
man, nor an experimenter, but away from the |
limelight in his calm and cheerful way, he has |
been giving for many years sympathy, encour- |
agement, and inspiration to the young men who
have taken his courses. I am sure that today he |
feels somewhat rewarded for his work when |
he looks over the list of the men who have gone
into physics or engineering hs a life work and |
are succeeding well.” |

The requirements are as follows: Sophomores |
are eligible in their second semester, if they |
are taking their second course in physics and |
have made an. average ‘grade of 95 in their |
physics courses; Juniors and Seniors are eligible |
for membership if they are taking an advanced
course in physics. and their average in this
subject is 90 or above and have no grade un-
der 85. In addition to the above requirements,

one must have shown interest in physics and |

have other desirable qualities as is known to
the active membership of the* chapter.

Sigma Pi Sigma is bringing honor to our.
college and is placing her before other insti-
tutions in a new light. Washington and Lee js
proud of being the founder of O. D. K., and
William and Mary of Phi Beta Kappa, and so
on to other institutions which are founders of
recognized organizations; so should Davidson
be proud of having the Alpha chapters of both
physics and chemistry honorary fraternities,

: “To commemorate the founding of Sigma Pi
Sigma, the associate members of the Alpha
C hapter, who are alumni of Davidson, are send-
ing funds which will make possible the making
ot a tablet which will later be presented to the
college, and be placed by the side of other
markers which show Davidson’s le.

adership in
our American education.”

UNIQUE MATHEMATICAL BOOK

(Continued from page 4)
the square of the 100th part of the sum by
$288,000. Required, the sum appropriated annu-
ally to the militry academies, and the rate of
interest.”
Slavery Questions

Since the book was published only a few
years before the War Between the States was
begun, it was only natural that the young pro-
fessor should include Problems that dealt with
slavery. Here are a few of them:

“A planter purchased a number of slaves for
$36,000. If he had purchased 20 more for the
Same sum, the average cost would have been
$150 less, Required, the number of slaves and
the average price.”

“A gentleman in Richmond, V.
willingness to liberate his sl]
$1,000, upon the receipt of th
itable persons. He received
24 persons; and of these
fewer from the N
the average dona
smaller than th
entire amount

‘

a., expressed a
aves, valued at
at sum from char-
contributions from
there were. 14-19ths
orth than from the South, and
tion of the former was 4-5ths
at of the latter. What was ‘the
ti given by the latter 2”

A gentleman, who owns 20 slaves, had laid
ina twelve months’ supply for them
purchased ten more, How long ;
last ?”

when he
will his supplies

“A planter hired a negro man at the rate of
$100 per annum, and his clothing. At the end of
eight months the master of the slave took him
home, and received $75 in cash, and no cloth-
ing. What was the clothing valued at?”

Fraud
“A Yankee mixes a certain number of wood-
en nutmegs, which cost him %4 ‘cent apiece,
with a quantity of real nutmegs, worth four
cents apiece, and sells the whole assortment
for $44, and gains $3.75 by the fraud. How
many wooden nutmegs were there?”

Major Hill was interested in charitable in-
stitutions, and presented a few problems along
this line:

“A rich, but charitable man, gave $20 to the

American Tract Society, twice as much as to
the Board of Foreign Missions, four times as
much to the Board of Domestic Missions, and
so on in the same ratio. His last contribution
was to his own. church, and his entire charity
|amounted to $1,020..How much did he give his
| church?”
“A gentleman invested $1,000 for the ben-
efit of a charitable institution, so that one-half
less should be drawn from it each year than the
preceding year, forever. How much must be
from it each ‘year than
|ing year, forever? How much must be ‘drawn
| the first year?”

Many other unusual problems could be taken
‘from the unique mathematical book of the young

|
|
| drawn

Davidson professor, but the above gives an idea |

}of how fascinating the study of mathematics
| was under him.

PROF. L. B. SCHENCK

(Continued from page 5)

“who misused his body years ago. He used to |

do many things, but his constitution is under-
mined and broken now. He got just what he
| chose.”

“Then the next with
| lrooped from disappointment; he is what is
| left of a fine young fellow who neglected his

here's one shoulders

| books. He finds now that success comes only
to him who knows, to him who stuck to his
hooks back in college days.

“And here is the careless Esau who broke

|the laws of nature and God, who got along |
| splendidly for a while, but for whom life has |

left a bad taste in the mouth.”

Thus we see here the temporary pleasures of
sin, self, God-forgotten, then, unrest, fear, and
remorse; there, fear of God, purity, and the
birthright of man.

“But Esau,” Professor Schenck concluded,

| “despised his birthright; he sold youth and op- |

vOrtunity for present trifles, and he returns
empty-handed—what then? God grant that he
may not hear the words, ‘Too late.’”

The services were led by Charlie Spencer.
Prayers were led by Laddie Scott and Stanley
Hoffman. A musical selection of Massanet's
Meditation from Thais was played on the violin
by Byron Shriver, and he was accompanied Ly
Ed McNair. Professor Schenck the
service with a prayer.

closed

College R. O. T. C. Unit
Visited by Colonel Reed

Col. William L. Reed, officer in charge of
R. O. T. C. in the Fourth Corps Area, with
headquarters at Fort McPherson, Atlanta, made
the annual fall inspection of the unit here Ne-
cember 9. Due to inclement weather, Colonel
Reed did not inspect the battalion; however, he
was quite well satisfied after his inspection of
the armory and records.

Colonel Reed visits all schools that have
R. O. T. C. units in the Fourth Corps Area,
which extends south from Virginia and Ken-

includes Louisiana.

SPANISH FRATERNITY

(Continued frém page 1)
appreciation for the privilege of being an in-
vited guest, and expressed cordial words of
welcome to our out-of-town guests. Prof. Fleagle
presided at the banquet.

Later the group assembled in the faculty room
of Chambers Building where a very pleasing
program was enjoyed. The members of the Chi
Chapter delighted us with a short Spanish com-
edy and, several songs in Spanish. They also
sang their Alma Mater song in English. The
members of the newly installed Omega Chapter
sang “O Davidson” first in English and then
in Spanish. The reading of letters of ‘felicita-
tions from other chapters and other informal
festivities brought to a close the very pleasant
occasion.

“THE HAUNTED HOUSE”

(Continued from page 1).

managers, W. A. Flinn and his assistants, E. S.
Hodge, Stuart Henry, and Bruce Peabody. The
make-up artist was Johnny Marvin, assisted by
Hodgen, Harris and Gregg.

Dramatics has proved itself an important fac-
tor in the curriculum of the college, and it is
becoming more and more a distinctive service
to be in the finished productions put on. Much
interest is shown in it as an activity, and its
support and backing by the student body have
been the most important factors in its succgss.

Dartmouth College has a volunteer fire de-
partment and also a forest fire squad. Bill Mor-
ton, varsity quarterback, is chief of the volun-
teer department, which helped fight a recent
fire at Sigma Chi fraternity house.

the preced- |

“Here is the man,” said Professor Schenck, |

tucky, and east from the Mississippi River, but |

“Let me say that at no time in the history
of the Church, since I have been acquainted
with it, has the need for the support of for-
eign missions been so apparent as today. I
| therefore consider that a gift from your organ-
|ization to the Board will have a more far-
| reaching effect than in any way you could spend
ja similar amount, and I unhesitatingly endorse
ith

Dr. Oren Moore, Charlotte, N. C.

“IT am very much interested in the idea of
|the Davidson boys making a gift to the foreign
| mission work of our Church.

| “The heroic ministry of our foreign mission-
arieseis a challenge to every man, The testimony
to Christ in the midst of strange lands and
|strange peoples has a great appeal. There is
|no cause of our Church that so deserves to be
known and supported, and I am_ personally
|convinced that the best way to support it is
| through the Executive Committee at Nashville,
which is doing its utmost to preserve and ad-
vance these interests of our Church in foreign
lands.”

Dr. “Bill” Anderson, Dallas, Texas.

“The proposed plan of turning your foreign
| mission gifts through the regular channels of
| the committee in Nashville is thoroughly sane.
They have a grasp of the acute needs that it
| is impossible for us to have. Thus, your student
body will share in all the great work of our
foreign mission activities and the ee will
| be placed where it will mean most and go
| fartherest at this critical time.”  /

Dr. “Sam” Glasgow, Sastnnah, Ga.

“I congratulate the Davidson students upon
| their good judgment and fine spirit_in turning
|their giftethis year to foreign mftgaions: That
/cause is in urgent need of additional gifts. I
jam confident if we could see what our mission-

laries face from day to day we would not only
|not question but we would do far more than

we have done in the past. My best wishes to
Davidson.”
Dr. J. R. Cunningham, President,
Louisville Theological Seminary.

“Yesterday I received a letter from a friend
in China. Graphically it pictured the flood sit-
uation: houses swept away or dissolved by the
raging waters; crops gone and fields still in-
undated; tens of thousands without homes, or
food, or any means of support! And I, well,
I have three meals a day as usual in my own
comfortable home! Then, I know Christ, and
they are without the Bread of Life! How can
any one of us escape the appeal of missions?”

Dr. “Tolly” Thompson,
Union Theological Seminary.

“There has never been greater need for fi-
nancial aid in the foreign mission work of the
Church than there is today. True religion is
characterized by love for God and love for
man; and love manifests itself in giving. If
our religion is false, we ought to change it,
if it is true, we ought to share it with others.
Every new interest in others at home and
abroad is an enlargement of one’s self; and
every new activity in behalf of others is an
enlargement of one’s own personality. To re-
fuse to aid in the work of missions is to deny
one’s self the privilege of sharing in the Divin-
est, most daring and most gloriously fruitful
enterprise of the ages.”

Dr. Donald W. Richardson,
Union Theological Seminary.

“Tf our colleges are to retain the position of
importanee accorded them by the American peo-
ple, if college-bred men are to occupy positions
of leadership, then college students must learn
that sacrificial giving is essential to living.”

Chas. McRae, ’28.

“It is the duty and privilege of those of us
who have, to share with those who have not.

“IMPRESSIONS AND OBSERVATIONS”

Our greatest possession is Jesus Christ. His
command is, ‘Go ye and teach— We can re-
spond by willing, sacrificial giving to the causes
upon which He has placed His Name, Such a
response shall loose a flood of blessings, count-
less in number, upon those who have been so
guided.”
Jas. A. Jones, ’31.

{Each day we are made conscious of God's
blessings, so we ought then to realize, “that
as we receive there is imposed upon us an obli-
gation, We should share these rich blessings
with our brothers less fortunate than we. They
are eager to hear Christ proclaimed as the Sa-
viour of the World.”

R. F. Sloop, ’29.

“I think that the Mill Chapel “is the one
place that needs Davidson more than any other
one place. I believe in taking care of one’s en-
vironment first. If something coming from the
student body could be used in this way it would
be a monument to our spirit. It would he a fine
and splendid incentive to higher and better
things both in the lives of the students and for
the Church.”

Walter Fraley, ’3!.

“It seems a work of Divine Providence that
this year when giving is harder than heretofore,
the gifts of the student body can be directed
into channels where they will count so signally
in advancing the Master’s Kingdom; for a
work instituted and carried on by the students,
and for the strengthening of our Church’s mis-
sions so distressingly crippled by recent. pri-
vations.”

Andy ‘Bird, ‘31.

“The campaign has my hearty approval. May
it receive the support which it so richly de-
serves.”

Bill Goodson, 731.

F

Dining Room on

Fifth Floor

Tea Room and
Fountain in Basement

DEPAR.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SHIRTS
$1.65

Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are

. the shirts that you can buy to

stand the wear that laundries give

them. White and colors. Collars
attached or stiff.

MONROE SUITS
$22.50

In gray, tan, or brown, in
homespuns and worsteds ... .
-these are the famous Monroe
Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be sure
and try one on the next time you
are in town. Other Men’s Suits
priced from $11.95 to $50.00.

SOCKS
35c and $1.00

Interwoven Socks in both plain
and fancy patterns. Silk and silk
and wool combination. You can’t
have too many . .. but buy good
ones when you buy.

If You Can’t
Come In—Just
Phone 3-4141

WHERE UP-to-the-MINUTE COLLEGIANS

LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES

' SHOES $4.95

Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-
straight Shoes for men. This national brand that fits
the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black

SUEDE COATS
$8.45

Glover and MacGregors Suede
Coats in both sweater and coat
style. Button or zipper fastenings
as you wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in
brown: This is ideal for campus
wear.

UNDERWEAR

Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts of
broadcloth and rayon. They have
quality-built comfort that you'll
appreciate. Also Cooper’s Win-
ter Weight Union Suits at $1.45
and up.

SWEATERS
$2.95 to $3.95

You can find the Sweater here
that you’ve been looking for.
Something just a little different.
Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and
coat styles and both V and crew
necks,

and brown.

TIES—95c

Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations .. . resil-
iant lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a

good selection of colors.

DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S

Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the
mezzanine for your convenience . . . meet your friends here .. . we are always glad to see you.

Men’s Dept.
- Street Floor

Men’s Dept.
Street Floor

