ORGAN RECITAL
TONIGHT

he Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. RONDTHALER
SPEAKS
MONDAY NIGHT

Volume XVI II

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1931

No. 27

Formal Installation For
Student Body Officers
is Held Friday Evening

Newly Elected Men Pledge Services
and Ask Support of the Student
: Body

BARBECUE THEN SERVED

Farewell Address is Made by Presi-
dent of Senior Class

Last Friday evening at 6 o'clock the stu-
dent body officers were formally installed,
with Dan LaFar, president of the retiring
Senior class, serving as master of ceremonies,
In: opening the program; Dan stated that
this year was only the second year that this
installation’ had been held and’ that it was
his hope that this time as well as on subse-
quent occasions there would be an attitude
of serious purposefulness that was prevalent
at the original installation exercises.

The student body then sang “O Davidson,”
after which the invocation was made by
Carl Pritchett. Following this, Dan Goody-
koontz led the retiring Student Council up
the left side of the stage, and Don King led
the incoming council up the right side of
the stage, each meeting the other half-way.
Goodykoontz, on turning the responsibilities
of the president of the student body over to
King, and the functions of the council to
the new council, asked that the members of
the student body rise and pledge themselves
anew to the support of the new council,
while, the new council was being installed.
Upon giving the oath, he said in parting that
though the retiring council had been some-
what criticized for many of its decisions
during the year, that they had acted always
on precedents set by councils who had
gone before, and that this fact should exon-
erate the actions of the retiring council on
any questionable judgments. This being said,
Don King made a plea for the earnest sup-
port of the entire student body for a better
and more rigid student government through-
out the coming year. The council members
then filed off the stage, leaving King and
Goodykoontz with LaFar.

Dean Rusk, president of the Y. M. C. A.;
Bill Goodson, president of the Athletic As-
sociation; Wilson McCutcheon, editor of
the Davidsonian, and Andy Bird, editor of
Quips and Cranks, then conferred their obli-
gations and responsibilities upon the follow-
ing men, respectively: Roger Enloe, presi-
dent-elect of the Y. M. C. A.; Don Mc-
Queen, president-elect of the Athletic Asso-
ciation; Grier Martin, editor-elect of the
Davidsonian, and Ned Dwelle, editor-elect
of Quips and Cranks. Each of these retiring
officers made remarks to the effect that
they appreciated the manner in which the
student body had supported them, and that
they were happy to see that such capable
men had been chosen to fill their respective
positions. The incoming officers in their turn
pledged their, wholehearted efforts towards
meeting the duties which their offices held,
and also expressed their appreciation of the
confidence which the students had shown in
them by electing them to these offices. Bill

(Continued on page 6)

Sophs Pick Mebane

For Vice-President

The rising Junior class, in a recent elec-
tion, elected W. Allen Mebane as their
next year’s vice-president. Mebane was elect-
ed on the third ballot. Those nominated for
that position were Fred Ogden, Billy Flinn,
Allen Mebane, Bob McCallie, Tom Henley,
and John Creech. The list was reduced to
three after the first ballot, Flinn, Ogden, and
Mebane. After the counting of the votes
from the second balloting, Ogden and Mebane
remained in the race, and Mebane was elect-
ed on the third voting.

Mebane is from Burlington, N. C., and is
very active in campus activities. He is a
member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fra-
ternity, next year’s business manager .of the
Wildcat Handbook, on the business staff of
the Annual, solicitor for the Davidsonian,
one of the Junior football managers, and
made his numeral last year in tennis.

Senior Class Holds
Open Air“Y” Vesper

The vesper program sponsored by the

Senior class Sunday evening, May 3, was |
unlike any others held this year. The meet- |
ing took place on the campus by “Phi” |
hall and proved to be stimulating. Dan S. ;

LaFar, president of the Senior class, di-
rected the singing and with the group re-
peated the responsive reading. Walter W.

Fraley and Andy R. Bird offered prayer. In|

the quiet of the evening the violin quartet
played a suitable musical number.

“The Invisible Cup” was the subject for

the first speaker, Fergie L. Wood. He read |
from the 44th chapter of Genesis, which tells |

about Joseph in Egypt, his placing the cup
in Benjamin's sack, and Jacob and‘his whole
household coming to live with Joseph in this
land. He also read part of Romans, begin-
ning with the 8th chapter. Mr. Wood asked
why God brought sorrow into lives,if He

loved His people. The answer the speaker |

gave to the question was that distress turns

out to be a blessing, because in the final |

analysis things usually happen for the best.
He related the well-known story of Joseph's
birth and motherless childhood and by anal-
ogy emphasized the importance of a mother’s
love. Stressing, this point, he claimed that
it is second only to God’s love. Then, the
speaker outlined the history of Joseph from
the time he entered Egypt as a slave until
he accepted and forgave his brothers. Mr.
Wood asserted that Jesus is willing to for-
give if the sinner repents. He pointed out
that John Bunyan thought when he was in
jail that since he had only the prison bars
to preach to, that there was nothing he could
do. When you consider how much “Pilgrims
Progress” affects folks, you see at once the
blessing of this confinement. The reflection
mentioned in the closing part of the dis-
course was to place your talents at the Mas-
ter’s service and see them multiply. "

Charlie E. Kraemer took his text from
the 20th chapter of John, This book tells
about Mary’s looking for Christ, and of her
full realization of what He means to her
when she discovers Him. Jesus asks her to
tell the brethren that He had arisen. In
doing this, Mr. Kraemer maintained that

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Minor C. Baldwin
To Be Here Tonight

Noted Organist Will Give Recital in
Chambers Auditorium

The information was released last Thurs-
day that Dr.. Minor C. Balwin, described
by music critics as the ‘master of the mod-
ern organ,” the “dean of American organ-
ists,” and the “Paderewski of the organ,”
would give a recital in the auditorium of
Chambers Building at Davidson College on
Wednesday night, May 6. This announce-

ment was made by Prof. Ernest J. Cullum, |

head of the music department at Davidson.

The appearance of Dr. Baldwin was in
connection with the observance of “Music
Week,”
National Bureau for the Advancement of
Music. Prof: Cullum outlined a week’s mu-
sical program beginning Monday, May 4,
that included the special emphasis at the
chapel exercises each day, a recital by Char-
lotte and Queens-Chicora musicians on Mon-

day night, and the local audition of the fifth |

National Atwater Kent contest on Thursday
evening.

Dr. Baldwin is a world-renowned organ-
ist, and his name for the last several gen-
erations is synonymous with the organ. He
has played at World Fairs for the past 50
years, and has given concerts at expositions
in Chicago, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Omaha,
and the Pan-American Fair. Concerts have
been given in every capital. of European
countries, and other cities which include Lon-
don, Brussels, Lucerne, Paris, and Antwerp.

During the past winter the noted artist
has been playing in Orlando, Fla., at the
church which John D. Rockefeller attends.
On his return North, he was a guest of
friends in North Carolina, and accepted the
local’ invitation to give a recital. on the

$20,000 Skinner organ, installed at Davidson ||

a year and a half ago.

which is being sponsored by the |

Capt. Otto Transferred

According to a recent announce-
| ment, Capt. John A. Otto, a member
of the Davidson College R. O. T. C.
Department, will not return next
year. Captain Otto has been at Dav-
idson for the past three years.

Some time ago Captain Otto re-
ceived orders from the War Depart-
ment that the regular term. of four
years would be extended to five
years in this case, but recently this
order was countermanded. Accord-
ing to the new order, he is stationed
at Fort Meade, Maryland, where he
will remain at least one year. Cap-
tain Otto will be attached to the
Tank School at Fort Meade.

College Will Confer

_ Six Doctors’ Degrees

Outstanding Men of Various Fields
to be Honored at the Approaching
Commencement

Davidson College will honor six outstand-
ing men at the approaching commencement
lof this institition, when a doctor of laws
| will be conferred on two, a doctor of litera-
ture upon one, and a doctor of divinity upon
| three, according to an announcement made
jat the office of President W. L. Lingle last
| Saturday. These men were elected at the
| February meeting of the Board of Trustees
jand all of them have accepted the honor.
| Mr. George G. Allen, of New York, and
| President Frank°P, Graham, of Chapel Hill,
|are the two to receive the doctor of laws
| degree; Prof. J. A. Tillinghast, of Spartan-
| (Continued on page 6)

|

‘Montgomery is Elected °
V.-Pres. of Class of ’32

| =.

|
|

| In the voting conducted last week, Alex
| Montgomery was elected vice-president of the
| rising Senior class on the third ballot. There
| were nine men running for the office: Mickey
| Bradshaw, Frank Buckner, John Keller, Cal
| Kuykendall, Bill Matthews, Mutt Roddey,
| Allan Whitehead, and Hal Wilson. Three
of these were left in the race after the first
|ballot, Montgomery, Kuykendall, and Roddey.
| On the third ballot, Montgomery was elect-
ed, defeating Kuykendall.
| This is the third honor that Montgomery
|has received within the past two weeks.
| First, he was selected as one of the two
| managers of the Student Store ,being chosen
lto handle the buying part of the business
|from the first of May through next year.
| Then in the past week, he was given a bid
/to Scabbard and Blade, national honorary
military fraternity, besides being elected to
the vice-presidency of the Senior class. He
is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity and is prominent in class athletics.
Five men were nominated for secretary
and treasurer of the class: Pete Knox, Bill
Rule, Henry McFayden, Kemp Morton, and
George O’Hanlon. Two of these were elim-
inated on the first ballot, leaving Knox, Mc-
Fayden and Morton in the race for this
office.

Scabbard and Blade

The following officers have been
invited to membership in B Com-
pany, 5th Regiment, National Soci-
ety of Scabbard and Blade; First
Lieutenant C. E. Kraemer, First
Lieutenant E. F. Thompson, and
Sergeants P. M. Conway, C. W.
Harrison, D. S. King, W. S. Lea, D.
G. Martin, A. G. Montgomery, J. H.
McKinnon, L. S. Raker, and S. S.
Wiley.

First Sergeant J. S. Meacham
read the names of these men and
extended them the invitation to join
Scabbard and Blade, military fra-
ternity, last Monday afternoon at
the drill period. This ig the second
time that the fraternity has issued
bids this echool year,‘the Gret is-
suing being made last fall.

r

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA IN
SPRING CEREMONIES, TAPS
11STUDENT MEMBERS

Vereen Bell Chosen
Editor of the Yowl

In one of the student body elections last
week, Vereen M. Bell, of Cairo, Ga., was
elected editor-in-chief of the Yowl, David-
son’s humorous magazine, Bell defeated Al-
lan Whitehead, of Wilmnigton, N. C., after
a very close vote. The election is the culmina-
tion of a year’s work as assistant editor of
the publication for each of these men. The
new editor succeeds Croswell Ragin, of
Wilmington, N. C., who has headed the
Yowl staff for the past year.

Bell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, the Reporters’ Club of the
Davidsonian, Delta Pi Kappa, and
Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity.
He has served during the past year as fea-

Sigma

ture editor of the Davidsonian, each week
editing his column of a Matador. During his
Freshman year he was a member of the
Freshman football team.

The Yow! is the newest of the campus
publications, taking the place of the literary
magazine, The Chameleon, which was pub-
lished in preceding years. Three issues of the
new publication have appeared this year and
each has met with enthusiasm from the stu-
dent body. However, next year, instead of
being entirely humorous, the magazine will
he forty per cent literary and sixty per cent
humorous.

The complete staff of next year’s Yowl
has not been announced.

Fraternities Issue
Annual Spring Bids

Several honorary fraterniites have recent-
ly sent out their annual spring bids: Delta
Pi Kappa, journalistic; ta Sigma Phi, class-
ical, and Delta Phi Alpha, German. The In-
ternational Club will
next week; the prospective members are now
writing their papers. Sigma Delta’ Psi com

Relations issue bids

petition began last Monday, and since there
was such a large number competing, the bids
will not be issued soon.

Those’ that Delta Pi
Kappa are: R. L. McCallie, fh. O| Guerrant,
B, B.. Sugg, Jr., D. D. McBryde, Cc. FI.
Myers,. Jr. W. W. Franklin, A. Hl. White
head, D, G. Stevenson, and W. T. Hancock

Eta Sigma Phi issued bids to the following :
P. F. Brown, D. R. Brandon, J. C. Calhoun,
J. C. Caligan, C. W. Harrison, G. A. Little,
D. D. McBryde, W. EF. MeNair, J. R. Sneed,
C. S. Spencer, W. B. Ward, C. F. Myers,
J. G. Dunklin, H. W. Erwin.

Those bidded to Delta Phi Alpha are: R.
A. Steadman, C. M. Wildman, FE. O. Guer-
rant, and P. F. Brown.

received bids from

Lecture on Oxford
Presented Tuesday

Dr. Vowles Gives Illustrated Lec-
ture on Ancient English
University

On Tuesday night, Dr. Guy ‘R. Vowles,
head of the German Department at Davidson,
gave an illustrated lecture on Oxford Uni-
versity and Rhodes scholarships. Dr. Vowles,
who is himself a Rhodes Scholar, described
the selection of men to go to Oxford, and
presented slides to illustrate the Jecture.

Since the death of Cecil Rhodes, various
changes have taken place in the selection of
Rhodes scholars. During the past two or
three years, a system has been put into prac-
tice which increases the chances for the ap-
pointment of students of colleges enrolling
less than a thousand men. Under this system,
the United States is divided into eight divi-
sions, each of which furnishes four represen-
tatives out of the twelve candidates chosgn
by the committees in the six states of that
district. By this plan, the number of men

(Continued on page 5)

Dwelle, Enloe, Gorrell, King, Mc-
Kinnon, McQueen, and Martin
Are Juniors Chosen

DR. LINGLE MAKES SPEECH
Cannon, Covington, Jones, Smith
With Faculty Members
Complete List

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa on
last Tuesday morning, at the chapel, exer-
cises, extended its annual spring bids which
included three faculty members, four Seniors,
the
Following a short address on the principles
Omicron Delta Kappa Draw |:
Lingle, the active members of the circle pro-
ceeded with the “tapping.” As the chairman
struck the table with his gavel, a student

and seven members of Junior class.

of by

arose, went rapidly into the audience, and
designated the one to whom the bid was
extended by striking him on the shoulder.
Faculty members of the organization were
seated on the platform throughout the ritual.

Faculty members receiving bids were: Dr.
C. Kk. Brown, Prof. K. J. Foreman,
Lieut.-Col, W. RR. Scott.
man was not present, having been called to
Va., for
Kk.

and
Professor Fore-
Richmond, business engagements.

Dr. C.
professor of economics. Having had the de-

Brown, Davidson graduate, is

gree of doctor of philosophy conferred on
him by the University of North Carolina,
he has gained much recognition through pub-
lication of several books on transportation
problems.

Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott has been stationed
for the

past three years at Davidson as
P.M. S. ‘T., and commandant of the R. O.
VT. C. unit. He is a graduate of the United

States Military Academy at West Point.
Of the four Seniors, extended bids, only
three were actually tapped. J. A. Cannon, Jr.,
of Coneord, was absent, now being enrolled
student the of North

University
: ( 4. : ‘
Carolina Law School, Cannon was president

as a in
of the Pan-Hellenic Council, business man-
ager of The
Beta. Theta Pi, social fraternity.

H. S, Covington, Red Springs, N. C.,
member of Pi Kappa Alpha, is president of

Davidsonian, and belongs to

the D Club, wears varsity football and base-
(Continued on page 6)

Lafferty is elected
Vice-Pres. of Class

In an election held several days ago, John
Lafferty was elected vice-president of the
rising Sophomore class. He was elected to
that honor on the fourth ballot. Those nom-
inated for that position were John Lafferty,
John Fitzgerald, Alec Schenck, Don Davies,

Bob Evans, Harvey Curlee, Jim Halverstadt,
Bill Johnson, Tee Thompson, and John
O'Keefe. On the first ballot this group was"
reduced to five, Lafferty,
Schenck, and Fitzgerald; on the second bal-
lot it was reduced to three, Schenck, Lafferty
and Fitzgerald; oN the third to Lafferty and
Fitzgerald, and on the final casting Lafferty
was elected.

Davies, Evans,

Lafferty, from Rome, Ga., has become one
of the outstanding men on the campus. He
is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity, and is one of the two student
council members from the rising Sophomore
class. Lafferty made his Freshman numeral
in basketball this year, and is a member of
the Frosh tennis team.

Nominations have been made for the sec-
retary and treasurer. The following were
nominated: Jim Halverstadt, Rufus Mor-
row, Owen Ravenel, Sam Alexander, Don
Davies, Sam Wilson, Bob Evans, Bill Stanly,
Alec Schenck, Buck Kirkland, Alec Haly-
burton Andy Manson, Harvey Curlee, Joe
Dill, and Albert Colwell. On the first vot-
ing the following remained in the race: Mor-
row, Schenck, Alexander, ’ Davies, . Evans,
Manson, and Halverstadt, Mondgjy morning
these candidates were reduced to Morrow,
Alexander, Evans, Manson, and Schenck,
