2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “‘For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
at the Post

Articles for, publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN rpeeyperppeeren ry: _-..-----Editor-in-Chief
Pines GON: WA Yuccsssscdcksddateuccoe Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Oi GUMIRAN feusechiscetaunacaiascencs UeMenepine: Editor
DD) 2D eMOCHRY-D Warkcasssccsecasecu _.......Managing Editor
Rises MOGALULudece. oye Managing Editor
Gea? ; Boies " _.....-..Managing Editor
iyo aa} Ph Sheep pecs g err rapenes ..-------Athletic Editor
D. G. ENSON as _.Feature Editor
WwW. W Nigh Neiuiesstastedars ‘ Feature Editor
He sw, 2 é Review Editor
NPN i Caw rau Can Lanse _-Exchange Editor
Dy G ip See - " _.-----.--Associate Editor
W. Ss. LE : ie x Editor
W; He -MATTHE WS xc sscxcntcancouss _-Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
A, L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
J: W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW y Subscription Manager
W, .T.) JOHNSON 3 gvasacsaus Solicitor
J. F. NEAL odes ..-.-Solicitor
L. RB. WOOTTON _ Solicitor
A, H. MANSON Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A. H.. WHITEHESD. puss ae President .
Tiere laa ee .-Vice-President
W. F. MULLISS é Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN Fr. H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR lL. S. GAMBLE

G. KE. BAILEY R. EK. LORRAINE

I.E. BOYD KE. L. POWELL

SP. PRESTON Rk. PRATT. THOMAS

W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK

O. CASALI W: M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, JR. W. T. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAMS J. A. HUNTER

SEPTEMBER 30, 1931
PARAGRAPHICS

Tough game in Greensboro last Saturday night! It
just seemed that the team couldn’t get going until
it was too late.

D

Vv

That cold weather has arrived at last, and.from all
present evidences there will be plenty of it during

the coming winter. ;
D

Wesley, Dean of Janitors, certainly stays on the

job. If he ever loafs he conceals it very well.
D

The open forum which the “Y” is conducting next
Sunday is, so far as we know, an innovation at Da-

vidson; and it should prove to be a most interesting

and valuable one.
D

Several people have asked the editor WHY the
paper doesn’t get out on Wednesday. We are going
to try just one more time, and then if there are no
results it will be dated Thursday.

D_

Let’s give those Wildcats a real send-off when they
leave for Lexington!

—__—_D——__-

Announcements in chapel are at times rather hard

to hear on account of the noise, and because they
are often not given loud enough. Let’s make them
so they can be heard.
D
COMPLETE BEAUTY
An editorial must preach some sermon, stimu-
late some thought, advocate some principle, or
right some wrongs. No editorial is the absolute
concensus of all the opinions that a paper must
represent. Neither does this need be representa-
tive of the student body in any way, but only a
treatment of a problem that touches every indi-
vidual on this campus by one person,

Tf one should ever visit Nashville he would | |

doubtless visit the State Capitol building of Ten-
nessee. From the front he would see a beautiful
square with an imposing loaking war memorial
building on the right and a\small park in the
immediate foreground. All is peace and beauty.
Yet if this unknown visitor should walk behind
the Capitol he would see, much to his horror and
disillusionment Sulphur Dell, the dumping grounds
of the State Capitol. All beauty has vanished, all
peace is gone—he will forever* carry away with
him that memory of one eyesore in a beautiful
surrounding which will utterly annihilate any of
the beautiful impressions he may have gotten
earlier in his journey.

The student body has looked with pride at the
growing beauty of our campus, at the growing
stateliness of it. Is the writer mistaken to believe
that the student body would like to see all of
the sides of Chambers kept sown in beautiful
grass, including the north side? Or would the
student body rather turn it into a playground and
thereby spoil the effect of beauty? Then, too, this
spot in rainy weather after the grass has been
worn off becomes exceedingly muddy, causing a
great deal of inconvenience. Personally we would
like to see this spot beautified.

| ° R. L. MeCALLIE.
ry
RESPECTING THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS

.If there is one thing which marks a man as a
gentleman it is his respect at all. times for the
rights and property of others. This word “others”
does not mean to infer human beings alone, not
just individual persons; it means also corpora-
tions, units, things. The average man is inclined
to feel that his doing something against one of
> these last named is not an offense in the strictest
-sense of the word. But if one comes to the point
+s-of-analyzing this discrimination he will discover
that it is hard to separate the two things.

At Davidson much is said about the destruc-

tion of property, both that belonging to the col-
lege and that possessed by the students. Theft
is handled by the Honor System, being one of
the three provisions of this code. In spite of
criticisms and accusations there is relatively very
little of this kind of disrespect for the rights of
others.

Davidson men are traditionally courteous and
respectful to all, especially to visitors on the cam-
pus. Their reputation in this matter is known
everywhere in the South.

But there are one or two exceptions to this
distinctive Davidson courtesy. These exceptions
are regrettable in that they do not give much
credit to the college or to the student body. They
are stains on an otherwise almost perfect thing.

There are several evidences of this disregard
for others’ rights. In chapel when a faculty mem-
her is speaking one can often hear a murmur of
voices, and occasionally hisses from certain por-
tions of the student body. The discomfort and
uneasiness caused the speaker by this can only
be known through a like experience. On some
occasions the same thing is true when some out-
sider is talking.

At athletic contests students sometimes forget
themselves and razz or hiss the opposing team or
the officials. This does not often happen and is
only mentioned as one form of discourtesy exist-
ing here.

This expression of unconcern, dislike, or what-
ever it may be, is one of the most cowardly things
a person can do, Hiding behind a crowd to do
such a thing is despicable. How many of those
who take this opportunity to express their feel-
ing would do so were they required to stand out
in the open? We venture to say that there would
not be one.

Think that over the next time: you wish to
show your disapproval of something!

EXCHANGE

vv

a ees |

The WV. AM. 1, Cadet informs us that, in all probability,
the entire Corps of the Virginia Military Institute will
travel up to Yorktown, Virginia, to the Yorktown Sesqui-
from October 16th to 19th, in-
clusive. Last spring the Corps was invited but at that

centennial Celebration
time there was some doubt as to whether the Corps could
go on account of the expense that the Cadets would incur
on such a trip. The Superintendent of the Yorktown
Celebration is at the present time making arrangements
for the quartering of the V. M. I. Cadets. The exact
details. of the provisions. for the Cadets have not been
worked out, but arrangements will be made with the au-
thorities of the Celebration. Everything but the blankets
and food will be furnished and the Cadets are directed
to carry their rifles along.

This paper also tells us that there is a greata™ num-
ber of Cadets in V. M. L. than’ there has ever been be-
fore in the history of the school, This fact is similar to
our own, as we have 640 students enrolled, the largest
in the history of the school. V. M. L.
rats this year.

There are only, note the word only, eighty men out
for Freshman football of the one hundred and twenty-
five that reported at the beginning of the season at Duke,
says The Duke Chronicle. Although only a fortnight has
passed, the two coaches, Caldwell and Waite, have round-
ed the Freshmen into a very good balanced team, In
spite of this the Duke varsity sent them down to a de-
feat by the overwhelming score of 34-0; this happened
when the Freshmen were not so well organized. Even
Duke University
very pessimistic, according to this paper. We think that
both the Wildeats and the Wildkittens had best beware
of the Duke Blue Devils and Blue Imps for they are
both going to be dangerous this year.

in view of this the followers of

The Lenoir Rhynean, the newspaper for Lenoir Rhyne
College, says: “The theme or motif of the 1932 Hacawa
will be woven around the life of Martin Luther, The
life of the founder of Lutheranism fits in very well since
Lenoir Rhyne is a Lutheran college and his life will
be portrayed from his childhood until his death, An in-
teresting and beautiful theme will be found, including the
outstanding events of his life, on all the Division Pages,
in the art work and all through the general make-up of
the book.” This “Hacawa” is the year book of Lenoir
Rhyne and the policy followed is similar to the policy
that Davidson’s annual, “Quips and Cranks,” followed
last year in portraying the life of Woodrow Wilson
throughout its pages.

Well, this depression will certainly put people back on
their feet again. The mortgage companies will take back
all the automobiles —Duke Chronicle.

Greeks as a people have a philosophy of life that is
quite different from that of Americans. Their desire is
to round out human beings, and to have an interest more
in beauty and life itself than in material successes. Harsh-
ness in personal relations is exceptional and as a rule
their habits are temperate. They show a liking for the
mere process of thinking —V. M. I. Cadet.

According to the Duke Chronicle, there was one
more national fraternity and one~more national sor-
ority charter granted:to the local petitioning groups.
The national fraternity was Sigma Nu, which charter
was granted to the Goblins Club at the twenty-fifth
convention of Sigma Nu ‘held recently. The installation
services are to be held soon. The national sorority
was Delta ,Delta Delta, which granted a charter to
Delta Chi Upsilon. The initiation of the chapter will
take place in the near future. The Duke chapter will
be the eighty-seventh.

is enrolling 263°

Of the thousands of Americans who are interested
in India’s great leader, Gandhi, it is very profitable
that the vast majority are attracted by his person-
ality and not by the cause which he represents. This
is readily explained, for the problems which confront
India are very perplexing to the average person
while, on the other hand, there are many things
which attract interest in the leader. Thousands of
people are wondering whether Gandhi will wear his
loin cloth when he visits King George. This is a
question which at once attracts attention, for the
personality and showmanship are things which, ex-
ternally at least, are easily grasped by every one.

Gandhi is a interesting person and his pri-
vate life is a thing of interest to the average indi-
vidual. One day out of seven he spends in uninter-
rupted silence while the other six are spent in work-
ing as a spinner. During these six days he arises at

very

four in the morning and retires at ten in the evening,
time is spent in Although
a subject of interest tor many, it

much of his prayer.
Gandhi's dresg is
is really’a symbol of his poverty and of the poverty
of millions of his people.

As a politician and statesman Gandhi ranks among
the greatest living. This fact is shown by his getting
a Jarge share of his demands from the British. It
is entirely possible that Gandhi will carry away from
good bit more than the

the London conference a

British had intended to yield.

I believe in equality for every one except report-

ers and photographers.
; —Mahatma Gandhi.

A recent statement sent to the government of Fin-
land, the only dry country in the world besides the
United States, by the Federation of Finnish Judges,
shows that they are not having any better success
than this country. This statement tells the reader
that during the twelve years of the existence of the
prohibition law in Finland the consumption of hard
liquor has grown, crime has increased and thousands
have been convicted of drunkenness. Contempt for
the law is common and the younger generation has
acquired drinking habits which are threatening the
nation’s moral and physical future. America is not
alone with its troubles over prohibition and one no-
tices that the things which the Finnish Judges com-
plain of are the same as those this country is expe-
riencing at the present time.

When man begins to think, all is lost.

—Dr. Will Durant.

The number of non-member nations of the League
of Nations has been reduced from ten to nine. This
was brought about by: Mexico joining the League
recently. The covenant of the League asserts that
nothing therein affects the validity of the Monroe
Doctrine; Mexico declared that it has never recog-
nized the doctrine. This makes no difference what-
ever since Mexican statesmen have said the same
thing many times before, but their statements have
never changed the doctrine nor its application. The
Monroe Doctrine does not prescribe any course for
Latin American countries but it does prevent non-
American powers from extending their political sys-
tems into this hemisphere. It is enforced by the
United States alone.

The list of non-member nations of the League in-
cludes, in addition 4o°the United States, Afghanistan,
srazil, Costa Rica, Soviet Russia,
Egypt, and the Kingdom of the Hejaz and of Nejd.

Turkey, Ecuador,

The problem of life will turn from that of the
struggle the question of
spend the additional leisure which we shall have.

—-Assistant Secretary of the Navy Jahncke.

for existence to how to

Some members of the American Legion unemploy-
ment conference have been considering a plan to
force the government to cash their bonus certificates
in full at a cost of $2,400,000,000. Major General James
G. Harbord, President of Radio Corporation of
America, in an address told the veterans that if they

‘went to Detroit waving a relief plan in one hand and

a tin cup in the other they would appear ridiculous.
“If you do,” said Harbord, “you will be laughed at.”

To buy today is a patriotic duty, not unlike that
of the days when we bought Liberty bonds and won
a war.

—Alvan MacAuley.

If all the folks in the United States would do the

few simple things they know they ought to do, most |

of our big problems ‘Would take care of themselves.
—Calvin Coolidge.

I believe that we shall wake up some bright Thurs-
day morning and find that the depression has quietly
come to an end and business is pretty good again.

—Loring A. Shuler.

I don’t like to read books; they muss up my mind.
. —Henry Ford.

DES ENTREFILETS 1+

“  . Of Ships & Shoes—.
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...’

Duncan McBryde

AN OPEN (ED) LETTER

Rumple (“Double Barrel”) Dorm.
Second Barrel
Thirstday.

To Whatever Concern It

May Concern,

Davidson College.

It has been found that college standards are not
as high as army standards. Army standards are six
feet, more or less. To raze college standards, then,
all college students should be given an intelligence

test. The test, which follows, is highly recommended,

for freshmen as well as stale. The grading will be
as follows; A==10-20; B=10-20; C=10-20; and
D—Failure. This is not an entrance exam, but an

exit exam.

I. If you belonged to a circulating library that had
only one book, would you rotate anti-clockwise, or
would you cancel your life insurance policy? Answer
yes or no.

Il. If your doctor told you that you had only two
weeks more to live, where would you go? (The cor-
rect answer is, “I would go to another doctor”).

Ill. If your professor gave you a rubber yard-
stick, and asked you to measure the distance from
the Post Office to Chambers Building, would it be
easier to stretch the rubber, or would you remember
that you had once taken the oath of office? Answer,
I do.

IV. If you were a college student of normal (7)
intelligence, and realized that you had a chance to
become President of the U. S., what would you do
to correct the error? Has this anything to do with
the disposal of second-hand razor ‘blades? There is
no answer to this question. It is a matter of ethics.

Anyway, people don’t save soap wrappers any more.

TOO LATE TO BE CLASSIFIED.
bout the only difference between the old dime novel
and one of today, is $1.90.—(Ohio State Journal)

V.. If you had your choice between radio announc-
ing, and a career as a yodeler, would you sail for
Hongkong, or commit suicide?

VI. Identify the following verse, and state whether
it is in trochaic tetrameter, or in tetra-ethyl.

Mary had a little lamb,

Her father shot it dead;

And now it goes to school with her
Between two hunks of bread,

VII. Which is the biggest joke, the YOWL or the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD? The answer is, I
don’t know.

VIII. How is it that you can allow such a column
as this to run? Ans., I am a member of the S. P. C. A.

STILL LATER, BUT CLASSIFIED.

“Adolf Whiffelschnitselheimer, eighty-four years of
we, has just barked upon his fourth marriage.” (News
Item). We'd call that “al Dog's Life.”

1X. This is a tough one. (So use Berma Shave).
You are clinging to the tail of the Graf Zeppelin
which is circling over the north pole. Now naturally
you can be identified by your laundry mark, but it
isn’t your laundry mark. Would you try to get an
uncle on the jury, or would you reach for a Lucky
(Penny) instead?

X. If you were riding through the Tropical Belt
on a Bike, in the capacity of a Marine, would you
Guard the Vital Zone, or Tighten the Belt?

XI. What are the three greatest races of today?
Ans., the 220, the 440, and the Mile. (I heard that
somewhere.)

Every student still kicking, after these “questions,
should be placed on the dissecting table, and exam-
ined for mental defect.

Any person giving all correct answers is entitled
to take down and put up bleachers for 3 more years,
regardless of graduation, death, or-other unusual oc-
currences.

Mr. Methusal Grabholt will now sing that well
known old song of heredity, “Where Did You Get
Those Eyes?” This is through (with) the courtesy
of Blindem and Blindem, the Optimistic Opticians,
makers of “Eye-wonder glasses” (Eye wonder why
I ever bought them). And.we will be all up in the
air again next Thursday Night, weather permit-
ting—er—transmitting. Give my love to Cousin Sally.

Yours Thru-ly, ;
OSWALD
R. F. D. (Right From Davidson).
