THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931

WILDCATS MEET
V. P. I. IN
BLACKSBURG SAT.

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRATERNITY AND
CLASS FOOTBALL
COMPETITION
BEGINS

All we know is by hearsay, but what we
have heard and read! “Wildcats claw Gen-|
erals,” “Davidson Smothers W. & L.,” “’Cats
Win in Big Upset.” These and many other
captions have been used in describing our
victory, and the general reaction has of
course been a feeling of great pride.

The individual sentiment to have
been in the form of a desire to show some
of the sports writers where they get off, al-
most preceding the desire to win the game,
and when we read these various writeups,
underneath our pride, voiced or unspoken,
was the inevitable gloating thought of, “Yi
Yi, I told you so!” The showing of the Wild-
cats against Washington and Lee last Sat-
urday should prove sufficient evidence for
squelching these cocksure prognosticators.

seems

In comparing pre-game predictions with
after game writeups, we are reminded of the
little anecdote concerning the child whose
bad habits were pointed out to the father,
the mother saying, “Your child,” but whose
commendable actions brought forth the com-

ment of, “OUR child.”
Every under-dog has his day.

Reports have it that the Wildcats played
the greatest game any Davidson team has
ever played, and every man who witnessed
that classic struggle in 1929 when David-
son won over Duke, 13-12, will imagine with
a thrill to what magnificent heights the ’Cats
must have risen in defeating the Generals

of W. & L.

Those of us who remained behind and
heard the play by play report, figuratively
took part in every play, feeling physical con-
tact on every line plunge, running with our
hands_ outstretched. for. each. pass,. and
tackling on the defensive with all the real-
ity of an enraged Wildcat. Each gain by
the ’Cats was cheereed as if the game was
going on before our very eyes, each loss
marked by a low whistle of disappointment
—and oftentimes dismay.

4

We venture to say that each one of us
listening in down here suffered no less men-
tal anguish during that last quarter than the
players and coaches three hundred miles
away. What fighting those Wildcats must
have done! Four times the Generals plunged
and passed their way to within scoring dis-
tance of the Wildcat goal, only to meet that

The Davidson Team Gave the Gen-
erals Big Upset Last Saturday
Afternoon

NINTH TILT SINCE 1903

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson Former
V. P. I. Football Stars

The traditional battle between the Gobblers
of Virginia Polytechnical Institute and the Da-
vidson Wildcats will be held at Blacksburg on
Saturday. This will be the fourth appearance
for the Wildcats and it is hoped that they will
acquit themselves as well on this occasion as
in their former games this season.

At Lexington last Saturday the ’Cats upset
the dope and defeated the Generals of Wash-
ington and Lee 7 to 0. The Gobblers were
swamped by Georgia, 40 to’0; but. still they
have a strong team as Georgia is one of the
nation’s best, according to Coach Laird who
scouted the game.

The game will present a series of rivalries
between the coaches as well as the players.
Both Monk and Tex were stars former
V. P. I. elevens. Monk, one of the best ends
ever seen in Virginia, earned for himself the
name of the “Southern Panther” for his work
against Yale and Cornell. He also coached at

on

V. P. I. for a number of years. Tex was cap-
tain of the V. P. I. team in 1922 and was re-
cently elected the institution’s greatest tackle
of all times. Both Monk and Tex came to Da-
vidson in 1923 and have been on our coaching
staff ever since.

The game will be the ninth played over a
period of 28 years, beginning in 1903. V. P. I.’s
coach, Orville Neale, was captain of the 1903
team. The games were as follows:

Viger Ty Davidson
1903—26 0
1906—10 0
1907— 5 12
1910—16 6
1917—13 7
1922—7 7
1923— 7 0
1930—20 19

This gives V. P. I. six victories, one defeat
and one tie. With the Wildcats having as good
a chance to repeat as in 1907. It is also expected
that the game will be as interesting as the
game last year in which Davidson was several
times ahead and the result was in doubt until
the final whistle.

V. P. I. will use its veteran line and fast-
stepping Sophomore backfield, although there
are four veteran backs who will probably share

Gobblers and Wildcats
to Meet in Blacksburg
to Contest Ninth Game

DON KING

Veteran Wildcat: Quarterback

Play-by-Play Report in
Gym Heard by Students

Last Saturday afternoon a crowd of about
250, assembled in the gym to hear the reports
of the Davidson-Washington and Lee football
game at Lexington, Va. Reports’ were received
over a direct wire from the field to the gym,
Ernest Milton sending them and Mr. Abernathy,
who is the ‘railroad telegraph operator here,
catching them up on this end of the line. The
crowd consisted mostly of students, but a num-
ber of faculty members were present.

The first report was received at 2:50 o'clock
and from then until a little after five a report
was received every five or ten minutes. Ed

Kuykendall doing the announcing and Bill Mat-
thews showing on the blackboard each play.

The crowd from the beginning seemed to

well known brick wall—no loose mortar] the spotlight.
either. The starting line-ups are expected to be as
follows : 1 1 ,
; AQ Complete Service
Because the whole Davidson team worked] y_ p, 1, Davidson , \
so well as a unit, It would be difficult to]seamon L.E Raker for School Public ations
pick out those who were outstanding, but if} stark IL at, Wagner Ynnual
any men should be selected for personal] Hite LG. Mathis a) a ines
mention, most sports observers pick Pearce] Brown Center Gardner Catalous
and Gardner as best defensively, and Wag-]|Swart RG. Conway Jiew Books
ner, offensively. According to newspapers,]|Grinus R.T Whitfield , yy ,
Collins, powerful W. & L. fullback, was un-|Chandler RE Brown Queen Cily | rinting© O.
doubtedly the most brilliant player of the]Groth Q.B. King Charlotte. PC.
afternoon. Time and again he his team | Robison RH. Pearce Cstabloshed 1694
to Davidson’s .’steen yard stripe, ut failed | Causey L.H. Peabody
to pierce the Wildcat defense. Howard F.B McQueen
It is reported that in a line averaging fa ta
about one hundred and ninety pounds per
man, V. P. I., whom the ’Cats take on this
Saturday, has a guard 6 feet, 4 inches in e
height, and weighing 215 pounds. Whata D d Th t
man! Look out, Mathis! avl son ea re
Georgia 40, V. P. I. 0. Davidson plays V. Monday and Tuesday
P. I. Saturday. Smarting from their defeat ‘6s ”
by Georgia, V. M. I. will be eager for re- THE SPIDER
venge, and if the ’Cats duplicate their heads- EDMUND LOWE—LOIS MORAN
up football against W. & L., it should be a Wednesday
good game: and a close one. “NEW WALINGFORD”
Thursday
”?
SCARLET TANAGER BEA Sor
THOMAS MEIGHAN—HARDIE ALBRIGHT
TOBACCOS - - SODAS Friday
z “BAD COMPANY” '
SUNDRIES RICARDO CORTEZ—JOHN GARRETT
Saturday: :
BOOKS CHECKED FREE “HUCKLEBERRY FINN”
PHONE 9143" JACKIE COOGAN—MITZI GREEN
ed ©
= cE ow

Juniors-Seniors Win
Inter-Class Football

Second Round Matches Were Finished
First of Week

The first game of the inter-class touch foot-
ball contest was played last Thursday after-
noon between the Seniors and the Freshmen.
The Seniors won by a large margin. In the
Junior versus Sophomore game the Juniors
emerged the victors and in the Senior-Sopho-
more game the Seniors were victorious. This
game concluded the first round and the second
round games are being played this week.

The captains of the teams for this year are
a¢ follows: Seniors, H. L. Carr; Juniors, D. S.
Currie; Sophomores, L. M. Huie, and the Fresh-
men, Oscar Bethea.

Below is given a schedule for the concluding
contests:

Monday afternoon—Juniors vs. Freshmen.
Tuesday afternoon—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Wednesday afternoon—Sophomores vs. Fresh-

men.

Last year the Junior class was the victor,
winning three and none. The
Freshman, Sophomore and Senior classes tied

games losing
for second place. These inter-class sports are
under the supervision of Heath Whittle, assist-
ant director of physical education at Davidson.

It is the purpose of the inter-class sports
contests to interest the who ordinarily
would not be interested in athletics. So far they

men
have proven very successful here at Davidson,

and have been very beneficial in physical devel-
opment.

have the same old spirit they do when the
team is right there in front of them fighting
for each yard. When Davidson would make a
spectacular play everyone would cheer as_ if
the players could hear them, and when Davidson
made the touchdown if the old
gym wouldn't stand up under the strain.

it looked as

When Washington and Lee started their long
drives and would make two and three first
downs in succession, many groans and whistles
heard, but when Fd would say, “And
the ball goes over to’ Davidson,” there would
go up another yell that could be heard all over

were

the campus. It was only during the half that one
was able to breathe freely, but even then things
looked pretty shaky. When it was announced
that Coach Tilson’s brother stumbled and fell
down when he had a clear field for a touch-
down, everyone knew Coach was enjoying the
game to the utmost, Things didn’t so
good when W. and L, started their third drive
toward our goal, ‘but when it was announced
that not only had they lost the ball, but that
the game had ended and we were at the big

look

end of the score, the old gym really did quiver
and tremble beneath the uproar.

During the whole show the students showed
excellent spirit and also that they hadn't lost
any of the old pep.

Referee of State Game
Praises Wildcats’ Fight

“Both Coach Younger of Davidson and Coach
Smith of N. C.

on the type of football they are teaching their

State should be congratulated

young men,” was the comment that Everett

Strupper, referee of the N. C. State-Davidson
game at Greensboro last Saturday, made on the
play of these two elevens in his column in the

Atlanta Journal this week.

Strupper, who from his referee’s post had
an ideal opportunity to judge the sportsman-
ship shown by both elevens, continued by say-
ing that “although the battle was for blood at
all times, not once was there any unsportsman-
like conduct. It was a wonderful spirit displayed
by both teams, and the two schools should be
mighty proud of them.”

But the official, who played for Georgia Tech
some years ago, was especially complimentary
of the fight of the Wildcats. He headed his col-
umn, “That Wildcat Spirit,’ under which was
the sub-head, “Strupper Lauds Spirit Shown
hy Davidson Against Heavier Wolfpack.” After
detailing how the N. C.
oughly outclassed Davidson in the first half,
“saining at will and crossing the Wildcat goal
three times,” he went on to say how Davidson

State boys so thor-

came back strong in the second half.

In the first period, he said, “it was too much
individual play on the defense, while on the
offense the big State team completely smoth-
ered them. The half finaliy ended without Da-
vidson having made a single first down.” But
after the half, during which Strupper says Coach
Younger must have given his “team some well-
that hit the spot,’’ Davidson
came back like a different team altogether.

selected words

Tn his own words, Strupper described it
thus: “The second half had hardly started be-
fore the little Wildcats began to play like a
They not only stopped the big State
drive cold, but gained possession of the ball
and started straight down the field. It was net
by passes or trick plays but right through the
heavy State wall. The little team opened it up
and marched on to a touchdown.”

team.

Continuing, he said “they were in no way
satisfied with this but continued to march the
big State team all over the field. When the game
ended they were right under the shadow of the
State goal post with what looked like a certain
touchdown. Twice fumbles with the

very wet

ball stopped drives.”

The official summarized the stirring fight of
Davidson graphically. He said that “State was
even more outplayed in the second half than
Davidson was the first. There should not be a
Davidson old grad anywhere that should not
love and respect every man on that team. Even
though they were defeated, their cup of defeat
has more glory in it than the cup of victory

7

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

that State won.”

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Ks

S\N

A Short Cut to
Accurate Information

You will find a quick answer to questions about words, persons, placesin

WEBSTER’S
COLLEGIATE

The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon
A WEBSTER'S NEW INTERNATIONAL—
The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a
companion for your hours of reading and
study that will prove its real value every
time you consult it for the wealth of
ready information-that-is-instantly- yours.
106,000 words and phrases with
definitions, etymologies, pronunciations,
and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700
illustrations. Includes dictionaries of
biography and geography and

other special features.
See It At Your College Bookstore or Write

for Information to the Publishers. Free
Specimen pages if you name this paper.

G. & C. Merriam Co.

Springfield, Mass.
