THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

WILDCATS TO
MEET ERSKINE
HERE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

KITTENS PLAY
STATE FRESH
HERE FRIDAY.

Wy,

The vicious clawing of a lean, hungry, and
snarling Wildcat could not be denied last
Saturday, and a powerful Duke eleven,

hed by a prod of Rose Bowl cham-
pions, was played to a standstill. The offi-
cial score read: Davidson 0, Duke 0, but to
those of us. who saw the game, the score
will have no significance, for the magnifi-
cent fighting of the Davidson Wildcats
against a larger and stronger team of in-
furiated Blue Devils will always be remem-
bered.

And we do not regard this as another of
those well known moral victories, for moral
victories are not worth a cent in so far as the
records are concerned, but we are inclined
to compare this game with a boxing match
in which the winner is determined by a pro-
cess of points. With this in mind, and con-
sidering the two teams as having played on
even terms during the first half, with the
additional consideration that the greater
part of the last half of the game was played
in Duke territory, it would seem that David-
son was the theoretical winner.

e+,

However, the following statistics would
tend to show the two teams pretty evenly
matched, and it is this alone which prevents
the writer from stating positively that the
’Cats outplayed the Blue Devils:

Duke D. C.
Yards gained from,.scrimmage_119 122

Firsts downs, 22002225 (.225 555 10 9
Passes attempted _____________ 12 7
Passes completed _____________ 3 3
Passes intercepted ___________ 1 3
Yards gained on passes __-___- 74 33

Yards gained from intercepting. 5 44
Average length of kickoffs ___ 50 25
Kickoffs returned _____________ 0 40
Average length of punts____ 38.3 30
Yards punts returned _________ 60 12
Fumbles) 22o2eesco 5 3
Opponents fumbles recovered _ 1 5

Every man onthe Wildcat team engraved
for himself a place in the hall of fame—
barring none. And the same men in the line
who began the game were blasting holes
through the Blue Devil line up until the final
whistle was blown, Bob Johnson filling Steve
Brown’s position at right end like a veteran,
and T. E, Barrier holding down Doc Mathis’
post at guard equally as well.

Better performance in the backfield could
not have been desired, King, McQueen,
Pearce, Peabody, and Mills playing brilliant-
ly at times—always heads-up football. Time
and again the stands were brought to their
feet by scintillating runs, King’s 43 yard gal-
lop after having intercepted a Duke pass
being especially worthy of note. The line
plunging of McQueen, the passing of Pearce
and Mills, and the excellent handling of
punts by Peabody were all commendable.

Incidentally, the Freshmen have an un-
usually strong team this year, one from
which other teams will doubtless hear more
during the season. This passing combination
of Mackorell to Morris is something beau-
tiful to see, and the results are astounding.
The Fresh don’t seem to need a punter.
With fourth down, and 20 to go, they pass,

KITTENS SMOTHER WOFFORD 4

Wildkittens Cross Goal
Seven Times to Defeat

Wofford Freshmen 44-6

Passes From MacKorell to Morris, and
Play of Gault for Visitors

The Davidson Freshmen displayed a smooth
working team here last Friday afternoon, when
they decisively beat the Wofford Yearlings 44-6.
Such a victory on the opening game indicates
a promising season for the Wildkittens.

With the Davidson passing system working
almost perfectly, and with a swift, hard-driving
bunch of backs, the Wofford Freshmen found
themselves up against great odds.

Even though they started off comparatively
slow, making only two touchdowns in the first
half, they gained speed and_ netted seven touch-
down before the end of/the game. The’ passes
from Mackorell to Morris, the Wildkittens’ star
end, featured the game,-scoring three touch-
downs and again setting the ball near the goal
line. Mackorell, by his drives, and Wingfield
by his long jaunts around end, did most of the
damage to Wofford. Gault, ace of the Wofford
squad, played well throughout the entire game,
scoring the Terriers’ only touchdown when he
twisted and side-stepped 36 yards to cross -the
goal.

Soon after the game opened, Davidson marched
70 yards for the first score. The drive was
featured by Smathers, who crashed through the
opposition for 20 yards. The extra point. was
drop-kicked by Mackorell. The Davidson boys
then eased up until the middle of the second
quarter, when thex<thade another drive for a
second marker. Mackorell covered 44 yards in
one run, and finally carried the pigskin 12 yards
for a score. Hutchins hucked the line for the
extra point.

It took only two plays in the second half for
the Wildkittens to start clicking on a_ series

of beautiful passes. The aerial attack was be-

gun when Mackorell hurled the ball 25 yards
to Morris, who carried it 32 more to tally. On
the first play after the kickoff Wofford fumbled
and Davidson recovered on the ©35-yard line.
Mackorell then flipped another pass to Morris,
who snagged it and was downed three yards

(Continued on page 6)

Duke Cross-Countrv
Teams Down Davidson

Davidson’s Freshman and varsity cross-coun-
try teams were defeated in their first matches
of the season last Saturday morning hy teams
from Duke University. The Blue Devils won
over the Wildcats by a 26-29 score, while the
Imps crushed the Wildkittens 17 to 41.

The dual meets were part of the Home-
Coming day program of Davidson College and
came as a preliminary to the Duke-Davidson
football game. Duke men won first place in
both events.

The order in which the varsity men finished
follows: Bray (Duke), Brannon (Davidson),
Farle (Davidson), Bradsher (Duke), Miles
(Duke), Morrow (Davidson), Nichols (Duke),
Moss (Davidson), Hulse (Duke), and Wood-
side (Davidson).

The order of the Freshmen finishing follows :
Reichman (Duke), Justin (Duke), Erickson
(Duke), Heritage (Duke), Morris. (Davidson),
Guillette (Davidson), Wentworth (Duke),
Nitsehke (Duke),. Smith (Davidson), Giles
(Davidson), and Rose (Davidson).

Pe

The Davidson College Wildcats will meet
the Erskine Seceders on Richardson Field next
Saturday. Erskine will be the first of, the two
South Carolina teams that will be met this sea-
son. Davidson won from three South Carolina
elevens last year, but the Citadel and Erskine

"Cats will have to use their proverbial fight and
punch to chalk up victories against them.

Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson will
be able to give Erskine everything they pos-
sess along football lines when the two elevens
meet on Saturday. This is very pleasing to the
Davidson mentors, because the Wildcats will
have to hurl their full strength against the
strong and scrappy machine from Due West.

Davidson was lucky indeed to come out of
the Duke contest without injuries to a single
man, In the two previous contests the ’Cats
lost two valuable men from injuries, but these
players will be ready to participate in the game
on Saturday. Of course minor injuries were
experienced in the Duke fray, but they are
nothing to worry about and the Wildcats will
be on their toes and rearin’ to go in the battle
with Erskine.

Both of the Davidson. varsity coaches saw
the Seceders in action against Newberry last
Friday afternoon, and they saw plenty. With
the exception of Hambright, Erskine has prac-
tically a duplicate of last year’s team, which
means that the boys are not new to the game.
Coach Younger says that they have an expert
and several outstanding linesmen. An
overhead attack will probably be launched and
it is in this defense that the coaches are work-
ing and trying to perfect.

“Erskine has a fast and hard-charging line,
some excellent blockers, and some nifty tack-

passer

lers,” said the Davidson coach in reviewing what
he saw at the Erskine-Newberry game. “And
they are hig boys, too,” he added. “It’s no little
team that Davidson will play this coming Sat-
urday, and we'll have to be on our ‘p’s’ and
‘q's’ to win this game,” he said.

It is doubtful if the first string varsity will
get into any heavy scrimmage this week, the
coaches preferring to climinate the possibility
of injuries with the heavy schedule ahead. The
second and third string varsity members will
probably engage in hard scrimmages with the
Freshman team in preparation for the inva-
sion.

(Continued on page 6)

and do they make it! Eighty yards on two 3 Ea
passes. Not bad! And this Wingfield is no
mean halfback, especially when Smathers,
Mackorell, and Caton are in the play. e
The ’Cats take on Erskine Saturday, and Davidson Theatre
this team, by the way, is nobody’s fresh
meat. State beat Davidson, Wake Forest
: MONDAY AND TUESDAY
beat State, Furman beat Wake Forest, and ©
Erskine played Furman to a scoreless tie. “MONKEY BUSINESS”
What do you make of that? Just this: the FOUR MARX BROTHERS
Wildcats had better be on their toes Sat-
day—and no mistake! WEDNESDAY
“SIN OF MADELINE CLAUDET”
' : THURSDAY
Give Us a Trial “MY SIN”
a e/a TALLULAH BANKHEAD
FRIDAY
’ 66 b 2)
NORTON’S SOB SISTER
SATURDAY
BARBER SHOP. “SHIPS OF HATE”
pac ia

both have stronger teams this year and tlfé

Courtesy Charlotte Observer.

WILDCAT BACKFIELD, WHICH BATTLED THE POWERFUL DUKE ELEVEN
: TO A STANDSTILL

’Cats Will Meet Erskine
Seceders Here Saturday

Wake Forest Game Will
Be Played in Charlotte

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physi-
cal education at Davidson College, definitely
announced here today that the Wake Forest-
Davidson football game on Thanksgiving would
be played on the Central High School football
field in Charlotte. This decision was made only
after a series of conferences between the ath-
letic officials of the two institutions.

Last fall, authorities of Wake Forest and
Davidson agreed that this game should be
played on Richardson Field at Davidson, It

was thus announced and advertised, but last
June Wake Forest officials balked at the idea
of coming to the Davidson campus and imme-
diately started negotiations with Captain Pritch-
ett to play the game again in Charlotte.

“We finally consented to make the transfer,”
the Davidson “when Citadel
agreed to come to Davidson for the third suc-

said professor,
cessive home game with us, thereby enabling
us to continue our policy of playing half of
our contests on our own campus.”

The reluctance on the part of the Davidson
officials to place their Thanksgiving affair in
Charlotte again this year, said Captain Pritchett,
comes only from the desire of the authorities
to play this particular game on their own cam-
pus, every other year, rather than make it an
annual game on neutral grounds.

4-6

Kittens Will Clash With
State Freshmen Friday

Friday, the Davidson Freshmen are booked
to contest with the Yearlings from North Car-
olina State in a game which is expected to be
intensely interesting from whistle to whistle.

As one game is not enough to show their
caliber, the Wildkittens will have a chance to
prove their “stuff against State. Last Friday,
the baby felines went completely rampant and
submerged the Wofford frosh beneath a tidal
wave of tallies; after the debris had been
cleared away the Davidson players found them-
selves on the long end of a 44-6 count. The
game Friday, however, is doped to be dras-
tically different. All reports from State point
out that the Freshmen from that municipality
have amassed a very strong eleven and have

heen preparing for this contest for several
weeks.
As a result of these reports, Freshman

Coaches “Doc” Unger and “Red” Laird have
been putting their cohorts through strenuous
workouts for the past week in an attempt to
iron out some of the defects present in last
Friday's tilt.

The entire Wildkitten squad is in good shape
and show promise of continuing their winning
ways at the expense of the State Freshmen.

Homecoming has come and gone, and we
are more or less satisfied. The Freshmen
walloped Wofford, and the varsity duped
Duke, and that, my children, is how the

Rover boys put one over on the city slickers.

Big Five Statistics

Av Per
G. Td Ep Fg Tp Op Gam
N. Car. _._4 7 2 0 44 45 115
Davidson _5 5 3 0 33 38 63
Duke -- 4. $3") 0 31 13
N.C. Etate4 3 0 O 18 62 45

W. Forest _3 2 O O 12 73 4

TEAM STANDING

Team —~ —~ -Won Lost Tied Pct.
Carolina __----- 1 0 0 1.000
W. Forest __--- 1 1 0 -500
State tas osesscse 1 1 0 500
Dike: <--:22.---.0 0 1 .000
Davidson -_---- 0 1 1 .000

TRENCH COATS
RAINCOATS

Made to Measurement

$4.95

SEE
PAUL BROWN
105 Watts

SCARLET TANAGER

You are cordially invited

to bring your girl in

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
, Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Nationally Known

Stetson “D” Store

-=-SPECIAL . .

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

and Justly Famous

