THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1£31

=

Davidson in the Past

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The heart of every Davidson student has
been gladdened by the announcement that
a picture show is coming to town. The bujld-
ing formerly occupied by Carter’s garage
has been under repairs for several weeks,
and with the completion of the work on
the building comes the above announcement.
The theater will be under the ownership of
Mr. Stough, a former Davidson man.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

On Saturday and Sunday, March 12 and
13, Rev. W. W. Moore, D.D., L.L.D., presi-

dent of Union Theological Seminary, will
deliver the fourth series of lectures on the
Otts Foundation. Dr. Moore will give his
first lecture in Shearer Hall just before the
dinner hour on Saturday, the second at the
regular Sunday morning service in the
church, and the third and last at the eve-
ning hour.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic
Election of officers for the present term
constituted the program of Phi Society’s
last meeting. S. W. DuBose was elected
president; Henry Nichols, vice-president; S.

first critic. The past officers were: C. E.
Kraemer, president; H. W. Ryburn, vice-
president; D. D. McBryde, secretary, and
S. W. DuBose, first critic.
Eumanean
At the last meeting, election of officers
was held for the present semester. The new
officers follow: President, M. W. Norfleet;
vice-president, C. W. Kuykendall; secretary,
Ed Hancock, and reviewer, Norman Raies.
The retiring officers were: President, J. C.
Matthews; vice-president, Gaither Jenkins;
secretary, C. E. Moore, and reviewer, A. R.
Jackson. After the balloting, D. F. Murphy
made a short talk on “Chicago.”

Statistics are no substitute for judgment.—

Seventeen Men Receive
Bids to: Reporters Club

Five Upperclassmen Extended
Membership in Honorary
Journalistic Organization

Five upperclassmen and eleven Freshmen
'were extended bids to the Reporters’ Club,
which is composed of the regular reporters
for The Davidsonian. Those receiving bids
were V. M. Bell, E. K. Emurian, H. W.
Erwin, A. R. Jackson, and J. W. Mc-
Cutchan, upperclassmen. McCutchan was ex-
tended an honorary bid. The Freshmen were

Odi Casali, L. W. Clardy, F. H. Covington,

L. S. Gambol, J. A. Hunter, R. E. Lorraine,
E. L. Powell, R. Pratt-Thomas, A. F.
Schenck, W. M. Thompson, and W. T.
Thompson.

Each generation revolts against its father
and makes friends with its grandfather.—
Lewis Mumford.

The bird of war is not the eagle but the
stork.—Rev. Charles F. Potter.

A prosperity for the few does not invite
the energy, the resourcefulness and ambi-
tions of the multitude to its support and en-
largement.—W. S. Gifford, president of the
A. T. & T.

E. Robinson, secretary, and L. F. Cowan,| Henry Clay, of the Bank of England.

Why we spend $2.000.000

to put CAMEL cigarettes

in the new Humipor Pack

W: have been in the tobacco business a long
time down here at Winston-Salem and we take
a lot of pride in the quality of the cigarettes we
make.

While we have spent a good many million
dollars aclvertising Camels, we’ve always held
to the old fashioned idea that the thing that
really counts is what we put into our cigarette
and not what we say about it.

If we know anything about tobacco, and we
think we do, Camels contain the choicest Turk-
ish and the mellowest, ripest domestic leaves
that money can buy.

In fact we have every reason to be proud of
the quality of Camels as they come from the
factory, but the remark of an old friend of ours
from Denver some time ago emphasized a point
that has been the problem of the cigarette
industry for years.

As he inhaled the smoke from a Camel we
gave him in our offices one morning, he sighed
with very evident enjoyment and then asked
jokingly, “What is this, a special blend re-
served for Camel executives?”’

‘Certainly not,” we told him. “This package
of Camels was bought at the corner store this
morning.”’

**Well,”’ he said, “I’ve been a dyed in the wool
Camel smoker for a good many’years, but upon
my soul I never got a cigarette as good as this in
Denver. If you would give the rest of the world
the kind of Camels you sell here in Winston-
Salem, you ought to have all the cigarette busi-
ness there is.”’

ane statement simply em-
phasized again the cigarette
industry’s most important
problém. The more we
thought about it, the surer
we were that he was dead
right, and that somehou,
something must be done.

Denver wasn’t getting a fair
break,,, Neither in fact was
any other town. The only peo-
ple who really knew how good
Camels could be, were the folks
right here in Winston-Salem.

That was due to a factor no
cigarette manufacturer had
ever been able to control.

Naturally there is no differ-

ence whatever in the quality SMOKI

A FRESH
CIGARETTE

of the tobacco in Camels, whether you buy ,
them in Winston-Salem, Denver or Timbuc-
too. But up to now there has been a very real
difference in the condition of the, cigarettes by
the time they reached the smoker.

The flavor and mildness of fine tobacco
depend upon the retention of its natural, not
added, moisture content which is prime at
about ten per cent.

In spite of our great pains always to make
sure Camels left the factory with just the right
amount of natural moisture, no cigarette pack-
age had ever yet been designed that could pre-
vent that precious moisture from drying out.

J leas are three things about a cigarette that
can sting the tongue and unkindly burn the
throat.

(1) Cheap tobaccos.

(2) Particles of peppery dust left in the
tobacco because of inefficient clean-
ing methods.

(3) A parched dry condition of the to-
bacco due toloss of natural moisture
by overheating or evaporation.

Always certain of the quality of our tobaccos
we had already made Camel a “‘dustless”’ cig-
arette by the use of a specially designed vacuum
cleaning apparatus exclusive with our factory.

Now, if we could perfect a package that would
actually act as a humidor and retain the natu-
ral moisture content, then Yuma, Arizona,
could enjoy Camels as much as we do here at
Winston-Salem.

We knew what we wanted.
We tricd many things. We
asked the Pittsburgh Testing
Laboratory to help us.

After many experiments and
humidity tests covering all
methods of packing cigarettes
came the detailed report of
which this is the net:

_(A) No existing cigarette pack-
age, including those wrapped
in glassine paper or ordinary
cellophane, gives anythinglike
adequate protection against
evaporation.

(B) All cigarettes so packed
tend to dry out rapidly from
the day they are released from
the factory.

(C) Only a waterproof mate-
rial with a specially devised

air-tight seal could give the desired protection.

(D) This measure, while costly, could be relied
on to keep Camels in prime condition for at
least three months in any climate.

If you have a technical bent, the graph below
made by the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory
will show you the exact results of their ex-
haustive study.

OF CIGARETTE MOISTURE LOSS

25 DAY CHART
1 Average 50 packages b

<0 .o?| Unwrapped Package
yi) 7" ] | Glassine Wrapped Package
CANE ered Regular Cellophane
ony WS Pe ed Wrapped Package
eet Sel

30 a br oe bgeo"
20 7 Cec .

wfegen" Ls} Camel Humidor Pack
io aR tie aoe Moisture proof Cello-
: ee bbane—Sealed Air Tight

5 S 2/0 2\5 DAYS

Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory chart above graphically
shows you that only the Camel Humidor Pack delivers
cigarettes to you in prime condition

Won may be sure we gave this report a lot of
careful study. We checked it and re-checked it
and then we went ahead. We tried this device
and that. At last we met success. Tlie air-tight
wrapping involved the designing of special
processes, special machines.

That costs a lot of money, more than $2,000,-
000 the first year, but after you have tried
Camels packed this modern new way we are
sure you will agree it is a finé investment.

For some time now every Camel that has left
our factory has gone out in this new Humidor

Pack.

We have said nothing about it until now, to
make sure your dealer would be able to supply
you when the good news came out.

Camel smokers of course have already dis-
covered that their favorite cigarette is better
and milder now than ever before.

If you aren’t a Camel smoker, try them just
to see what a difference there really is between

harsh, dried out tobacco and a properly con-
ditioned cigarette.

You can feel the difference, you can hear the
difference and you certainly can taste the dif-
ference.

Of course we’re prejudiced.

We always have believed that Camel is the
world’s best cigarette.

Now we know it.

Just treat yourself to Camels in the new
Humidor Pack and see if you don’t agrec.

' R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
Winston-Salem. N. C. :
