Co

The Davidsonian

SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Vol. XIX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

No. 1

DAVIDSON PRESIDENT
GIVES INSPIRING TALK
ATY.M.C.A. VESPERS

- Dr. Lingle Speaks on Being Doers of
Word and Not Hearers Only

ENLOE PRESENTS SPEAKER

Opening Prayers Are Led by Gorrell
and McKinnon ~

“But be ye doers of the Word and not hear-
Dr. Walter Lingle at vespers last Sunday eve-
ers only,” was the text of the talk made by
ning.

After opening prayers led by Bob Gorrell
and Jack McKinnon and the reading of the
Scripture by Roger Enloe, the audience was
favored with a vocal selection by Mrs. Vowles.

Roger Enloe introduced the speaker, who
explained that he did not desire to give a ser-
mon so much as a heart-to-heart talk. He ex-
plained that the Bible was written to be lived
as well as to be read.

He then turned to James 1:27 and read a
passage showing how religion ought to express
itself: first in personal purity and holiness, and
secondly by ministry to others. He showed the
relationship of religion to business in students,
especially as concerned with the paying of debts
and with the doing of work. The speaker
warned of the danger of letting the prospect
of a big action take the place of the perform-
ance of the smaller duties of life. He illustrated
this point by the story of a person who ex-
pressed the desire in a certain epidemic, “If she
had a million dollars,” yet made no use what-
ever of the means which she possessed. Along
the same line he expressed the need of sym-
pathy at all times with the quotation: “Be com-
passionate, for every man is fighting a hard
battle.”

The speaker then showed how religion should
be carried into all theyrelationships of life; and
said that the greatest help_to Christianity now
would be a few more Christians who did take
their religion into everything in life.

Dr. Lingle closed with a reference to those
who have “translated the Bible into life,” and

urged that all of us try to translate the Bible
into life.

Younger and Tilson
Sign New Contracts

Davidson Coaches Have Completed
Eight Years of Work Here

W. L. (Monk) Younger and S. D. (Tex)
Tilson, coaches of Davidson College’s athletic
teams for the past eight years, have signed a
new contract to continue as mentors here for
the next five years. This announcement was
made at Davidson Saturday afternoon by Capt.
Norton G. Pritchett, professor of »physical edu-
cation, and is one which will be greeted with
pleasure by alumni of the institution and those
interested in the athletic activity of Davidson.

This new five-year contract signed by Coaches
Younger and Tilson can be interpreted, in a
way, as a renewal, for they have just completed
one signed five years ago. Prior to that time
they had coached for three years under one-
year agreements.

Athletic authorities at Davidson are elated
over the signatures of Younger and Tilson on
the dotted lines, and expressed a feeling of
satisfaction that the athletic teams of the col
lege would be tutored for another five years by
this excellent pair of coaches. Since the two
came here in the fall of 1923, the college has
experienced both lean and fat years in ath-
letics, but regardless of whether the Davidson
boys are victorious or not, no rumblings of
ousting or dissatisfaction have arisen.

Younger and Tilson came to Davidson simul-
taneously. Coach Younger, after playing bril-
liantly for both Davidson and V. P. I, had
been assistant coach at the latter, and Coach
Tilson had just completed a great carecr on
the gridiron at V. P, I, being captain of the
Gobbler eleven the last year of his collegiate
football.

Beginning at the bottom, the Davidson foct-
ball team kept climbing gradually until they
captured the state championship in 1926. The
following season was mediocre, and two suc-
cessive lean years occurred in 1928 and 1929,
Since that time, the Davidson eleven has been
splitting the season about fifty-fifty in wins and
losses, This coming season, with limited and in-

(Continued on page 3)

Many Improvements
Made During Summer

Interior of Rumple Dormitory Com-
pletely Remodeled

Among the greatest improvements that the
students of Davidson have seen is the improve-

ment that has been made on Rumple dormitory. |
Workmen have been busy on this antiquated |
building all summer. New hardwood floors have |
been laid, new doors have been put in, the,

woodwork has been painted, and the walls have
been papered. These new rooms are a great con-

trast to the old rooms of last year. Another |

addition that has been made is the door which
has been cut through the wall that formerly
divided the two sections. This makes it pos-
sible to go from one side to the other without

going downstairs. The rooms have also been

furnished with new Simmons beds.

Several walks have been made throughout the
campus. The brick path that was in front of
Chambers has been continued across to Dormi-

tory Row to replace the cinder walk which |
was there last year. Another walk has been

built from Chambers direct to the post office
to take the place of the broad and muddy path
which had been made across the campus in the

last few years. A path has also been made from |

the Library to the Philanthropic Literary So-
ciety Hall.

A considerable addition has been built to the
laundry to make it possible for that growing
institution to take care of its business more
satisfactorily. A new brick dry cleaning and

pressing building has -been built next to the |
laundry. This college pressing club does away |

with the soliciting in the dormnitories by other
cleaning establishments.

Several of the buildings have been painted.
The front of the Students’ Store and the other
buildings in that row have received a coat of
red paint.

Executive Committee
Appoints Assistants

Approximately Sixty Students Are
Chosen By Executive Committee
to Serve as Assistants

One of the many ways in which self-help stu-
dents earn additional money at Davidson Col-
lege is through assisting the various professors,
the work largely .consisting of grading papers
and notebooks. Approximately 60 students are
annually chosen by the executive committee of
the college, upon recommendation of the dif-
ferent professors.

Selection for these posts not only have a
monetary value, but also represents an honor:
No student is chosen as an assistant unless he
has indicated an outstanding proficiency in the
department or departments with which he will
be associated.

Announcement was made through the office
of Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar, of the ap-
pointments for the coming year. They are as
follows: .

Greek—D. D. McBryde, Linden.

Latin—T. W. McLean, Charlotte.

French—Roscoe Prince, Raleigh; J. T. Welch,
Jr, Mt. Holly; H. L. Carr, Burgaw.

Mathematics—W. L. Holshouser, Blowing
Rock; W. H. Matthews, Jr., Marlin, Texas,
and R. L. Sparrow, Ransonville.

Bible—H. W. Ervin, Long Island, N. Y.;|

FE. O. Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.; J. E. Rich-
ards, Liberty Hill, S. C.; W. L. McKeithen,
Aberdeen; H. C. McFadyen, Donelson, Tenn.,
and H. F. Nichol, Wilmington.
Philosophy—R. P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.
Chemistry—D. H. Leeper, Jr., Hiddenite.
Spanish—W. A. McKnight, Shelby.

History—D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.; D
M. McConnell, Chester, S. C.; M. F. McDavid,
Sariford; C. W. Harrison, Davidson, and R,
D. Daffin, Ripley, Miss.

Political Science—C. W. F. Spencer, Jr.,
Rock Hill, S. C., and J. C. Houston, Leeds,
Ala.

Economics—P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky.;
P. S. Knox, Jr, Thomson, Ga., and D. G.
Stephenson, Covington, Ga.,

English—E. C. Dwelle, Charlotte; W. E.
McNair, Atlanta, Ga.; E. W. Shackelford, Jr.,
Durham; T. M. Davis, Waxhaw, and W. S.
Lea, Knoxville, Tenn.

German—W. W. Franklin, Bluefield, W. Va.,
and W. M, Croker, Fayetteville.

Business Administration—W. L. Hill, Jr.,
Sharon, S. C,; W. H. Jetton, Davidson, and
S. S. Wiley, Salisbury.

Education—L. N. Hand, Jr., East Spencer,

(Continued on page 6)

Honor Roll

SENIOR CLASS
| Alexander, J. A.; Alderman, P. R.,
|| Jr Black, J. B., Jr.; Caldwell, D. J.;
| Caldwell, J. R., Jr.; Cowan, A. W.;
Jackson, K. M.; McCutchen, J. W.;
Matthews, J. C.; Munroe, H. S., Jr.;
Norfleet, M. W., Jr.; Rollins, F. H.;
Shepard, A. H., Jr.

JUNIOR CLASS

Bettis, E. S.; Carr, H. L.; Dunklin,
J. G.; Dwelle, E. C.;, Enloe, R. P.;
Hand, L. N., Jr.; Harrison, C. W.;
Houston, J. C.; McConnell, J. D.; Mc-
Queen, D. M.; Wiley, S. S.

SOPHOMORE CLASS

Brown, P. F., Jr.; McConnell, D. M.;
McNair, W. E.; Mulliss, W. F.

FRESHMAN CLASS
Dill, J. E.; McGeachy, J. A., Jr.;

Morrow, R. C., Jr.; Scott, F. H.;
Thompson, W. M.; Thompson, W.
Teri

Introductory Exercises
_ For Freshmen Held Last
| Tuesday and Wednesday

Twelve Talks Given by Faculty Mem-
bers and Outstanding Men on the
Campus

DR. SOMERVILLE SPEAKS

|
| President Lingle Closes Program
| With Inspiring Address

In accordance with a custom instituted sev-
leral years ago, Davidson College held an Orien-
| tation Program for Freshmen beginning Tues-
day evening and concluding Wednesday eve-
ning. The attendance at the meeting was com-
pulsory. There were four individual programs

ing men on the-campus, members of the faculty,
and Rev. W. G. Somerville, from Guthries-
wills, B,C, 2 md

The purpose of the program was to help the
Freshmen become adjusted as quickly as pos-
sible, to acquaint them with high traditions, and
ideals, of Davidson College, and to make them
feel at-home as quickly as possible on the Da-
vidson campus. The program gave the essential
information one should have about the college,
and the various activities one finds upon reach-
ing the campus.

Roger P. Enloe, president of the Y. M. C. A,,
opened the series of talks with devotional exer-
cises. Rev. W. G. Somerville then talked on
Ideals in College Life, emphasizing the place of
religion and God in a true college life.

Wednesday morning Dr. H. M. Moffett talked

(Continued on page 6)

DOCTOR FRAZER HOOD
SPENDS VACATION IN
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES

|Native Architecture and Costumes of
Peasants Greatly Interested Pro-
fessor and His Family

Dr. Hood and his family spent the major
part of the summer in Europe. They landed at
Havre, France, and continued down the west
coast, visiting noted cities of Normandy, in-

.|cluding Caen, Ruen and Mont St. Michelle.

At Ruen they visited the cathedral, and at
Mont St. Michelle they visited many monas-
teries and churches. Mont St. Michelle is now
noted for its famous foods.

From there they went through Brittany. Dr.
Hood said that the native architecture and cos-
tumes of the people interested him most. He
further stated that there was much in Brittany
to remind him of Ann of Brittany who reigned
in her husband’s place while he was on a cru-
sade. Wood carvings are the most prominent
forms of art in that section. Dr. Hood brought
back several. They also enjoyed meeting the
peasants. It was their good fortune to witness
two peasant weddings. Dr. Hood said that it
was more like watching an opera than a true
to life happening, as all of the costumes were
so beautiful and artistic. ;

The. peasants believe in wearing silks and
(Continued on page 6)

v

held, with twelve talks given by the outstand-,

Dr. Mims Speaks to
Davidson Students

Vanderbilt Professor is Noted Lec-
turer on Literature

Dr. Edward Mims, who is in charge of the
English Department at Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, Tenn., lectures in Chambers Audi-
torium tonight, September 16, at 8 o'clock. The
subject for the evening is “Bright Intervals.”

Dr. EK. F. Shewmake. states that Dr. Mims
is the first of a series of speakers who are to
be brought here to speak. Dr. Shewmake is
chairman of the faculty committee on lectures
and selected Dr. Mims as the first speaker be-
cause of his reputation as a lecturer and_ his
importance in educational circles.

This noted educator has spoken twice before
to Davidson students and has made himself con-
spicuous not only as a speaker, but as an au-
thor, One of his newest and most popular books
“Adventurous America.” He has
fined himself only to this field, but has written
several articles about American and English
literature. Because of his ability he is in great
demand and is a favorite at Chautaqua, New
York, during the summer season,

\

Bid PropemnsAtmonneed
By Pan-Hellenic Council

Many Men Are Being Rushed by
Fraternaties as Bid Day
Approaches

1s

Rushing season has been in progress since
the beginning of college on September & The
ten social fraternities on the Davidson campus
have been ‘making every effort to secure those
men in whom they are interested.

Last year 110 men were pledged. This per-
centage was slightly larger than in years past
and this year the indications so far predict an
even Jarger number. Of the 110 pledges last
year, an eyen 100 were Freshmen, almost half
of the Fresh class. Nine upper classmen and one
faculty member also became affiliated with va-
rious organizations.

Bid Day is on September 23. The following
rules of the Pan-Hellenie Council are to be
observed: 1, The day of silence begins at 10
p. m. Tuesday and ends at 7 p. m. Wednesday.
During this time no fraternity man shall talk
to a Freshman nor shall a Freshman go to a
fraternity house. 2, Freshmen accepting the bid
of their choice must be at the house of that
fraternity at 9 p. m. Wednesday night. 3, Each
Freshman receiving more than one bid must
remain in his room until each fraternity has
had 15 minutes’ interview, after which he must
go to.thé house of his choice.

The following regulations are taken from the
Davidson College Regulation for Fraternities
and Social Clubs: PLEDGING—The Pan-Hel-
lenic Council shall appoint a day during the
second full week of college as Bid Day. There
shall be no bidding or pledging of Freshmen
until the hour set, for bidding by the Pan-
Hellenic Council. No student after his first
semester in college is eligible for pledging until
he has met the full scholastic requirements for
initiation. The pledge of any student that fails
to qualify: for initiation is automatically an-
nulled. INITIATION—No student shall be ini-
tiated during his first semester in college. To
become eligible to fraternity membership a stu-
dent must pass three three-hour courses in Da-
vidson College for the semester just preceding
the date of his initiation. No student can qualify
by re-examination. Eligibility of all students
shall be determined only by written report from
the office of the dean of students. This report
may be obtained not earlier than ten days after
the opening of the new semester. :

Some of the fraternities have additional rules |

regarding scholastic requirements.

Captain Seifert New
R.O. T.C. Instructor

This year the United States War Depart-
ment has stationed Captain Seifert with the |
Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit to take the place |
of Captain Otto, who has been moved to the}
Tank School at Fort Meade, Maryland.

Officers are stationed at colleges for a period
of four years. At the end of this time the col-
lege asks for certain officers. Ones that are}
available and that are acceptable to the school
are detailed for duty. :

Captain Seifert’s last service was with the
33rd infantry at Fort Clayton. In his present
position he will be Assistant Professor of Mili-

not con- |

GRIDIRON CANDIDATES
REPORT FOR OPENING
OF FOOTBALL SEASON

Lack of Reserves Threatens to Be
Drawback of This Season

| SEVERAL MEN LO
| ‘ GRADUATION —

|
|

Coaches As Yet Are Slow in Making
Predictions

When the call for fall football was ,sent out
on the seventh of September, about forty men
responded. Now that number has increased to
more than four complete teams. Out of this
material will soon come the answer to whether
this year’s team will equal, surpass, or fall
short of the team of last year which concluded
a very creditable Among its victims
were Carolina, N. C. State, and Citadel, while
it lost to the jinx of Wake Forest, and was
overpowered by the strong Duke team.

season,

Two of the mainsprings of last year’s team,
Thad Brock in the line, and Joe MeCall in the
| backfield, were lost through graduation, and
| their places will be very difficult to fill. Also
{the absence of Hub Covington at tackle, Walter
| Fraley at quarterback, Jim Proctor at end, and
| Bill Mason at center will be felt very keenly.
|The success of this year’s team depends upon

lthe manner in which the present material fills
| the holes left vacant.

| Coach “Monk Younger, true to form, is not
I very hopeful, and his predictions are not in the
| least encouraging. Coach Tex Tilson feels that

| this year’s team has a pretty good chance to
do “big things” in the way of football, while
Captain Pritchett believes that the team this
year should equal that of last year. Which of
these predictions is true will soon be seen, as
the first game is on Saturday, the nineteenth,
and although it is against Elon, still it serves
as a pretty good test of what the team may
or may not be able to do in the future games.

In the backfield, Don McQueen, Don King,
and Buck Mills will be back with Buddy Gard-
ner, last year’s center, and Charlie Pearce get-
ting in for a large share of the work. Although
Gardner has not developed unusually well as a
ball toter, he is almost without equal as a block-
er and interference runner, and anyone who saw

(Continued on page 6)

R.O.T.C. Officers and
Staff Are Selected

Don King is Appointed Cadet Major
of Battalion

The following appointments have been made
in the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit to go into
effect for the present school term:

To be Batialion Major: King, D. 5.
|

| To be Cadet Captains: Conway, P. M., in
|command of Company “A”; Wiley, S. S., Bat-
talion Adjutant; Martin, D. G., in command
}of Company “B”; Enloe, R. P., in command
}of Company “C’; Raker, L. S., in command
of Company “D’; Robinson, E. B., in, com-
mand of the Band; McConnell, J. D., Personnel
Adjutant. :

|
r

To be Cadet First Lieutenants: McKinnon,
| J. H., and“Beohard, M. L., detailed with Com-
t pany “C”; Montgomery, A. C., and Harrison,
| C. W., detailed with Company “A”; Harris,
H. H., end Graham, A. J., detailed with Com-

|pany “D"”; Morton, R, K., and Carr, H. L,,
detailed with Company “B"; McCall, R. E.,
| Staff.

| To be Cadet Second Lieutenants:
| 0. and Washam, J.
[sar

|

Mann, J.
N., detailed with Company
Cashion, W. W., and Hughes, J. G., de-
tailed with Company ‘“B”; Lea, W. S., and
Knox, P. J., detailed with Company “C”; West,
| F. H., and Dunn, T., detailed with Company
|“D"; Wilson, H. A., Staff.

To be Cadet First Sergeants: Ogden, F. W,,
Company “A”; Brown, P. F., Company “B”;

| Bailey, G. E., Company “C”; Peabody, E. B.,

Company “D”; Conoley, R. E., Band.

tary Science and Tactics, teaching Juniors map
reading, sketching, machine gun work, work
with Howitzer weapons, including the three-
inch trench mortar and the 37 mm. gun: He
will also instruct in platoon combat principles.
