N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the_hands of the
Managing Editors“by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.....4 ..--Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY. } Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF :
Ei OF SGUERRANT siccwccesasie sks csuiesesc sce. Managing Editor
Di 2D; 2 MOBRY D Bras se osc sle ceec scale ce Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS...-...-- ..---Managing Editor
By Bh SU GG iiiaee eas ae sccsc ss sceccl lc asec Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN... Feature Editor
H. W. Review Editor
zx. L Exchange Editor
KE. . Associate Editor
WwW. Associate Editor
Ww. ...----Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Siauseastavdsuacsed Assistant Business Manager
..-Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
saccacsonccnnse Solicitor
cabeaese Solicitor
.-------Solicitor
Solicitor

prugev>>

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A. -H.._WHITEHEAD.....W.......----.0-----------<- .---President
py, . Vice-President
W. Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F, H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E, LORRAINE

d: E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A, F, SCHENCK

O. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. Sennuaia: W. T._ THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

NOVEMBER 18, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS - /

Too bad about that Carolina game, but with a win
over Wake Forest, we feel sure that the student
body would have little trouble in forgetting it.

SESS TS ee eee

Dr. Miles is giving us some wonderful messages
in chapel and at the night service. Anyone who is
missing an opportunity to hear him is doing himself
an injustice.

PED EOS y Yarn oeOees
_ The Seniors will soon be distinguishing themselves

—by wearing their new blazers (that is, if they ever
get here).

PORE Vea

It’s hard to realize that there is only a short time,
comparatively, until the Christmas holidays—just
few days over a month.

; EE

But before that time we have another report com-

ing. A word to the wise is sufficient.
SEES yeaa

The optimist says that prosperity is just around
the corner; the pessimist remarks that there must
have been a wreck coming around the curve.

es Ny SSE

Recent state elections show that the Democratic
Party has gained in both houses of Congress, and
there are ten more Democratic governors than there
were when Hoover started his term.

eee gy Be
ABOUT FOOTBALL

Davidson men can best show their apprecia-
tion of the work, ability and fight of the
football team of this season by their unre-
served support of those Wildcats in their one
remaining contest. Last year there were
rumors that the student body at Davidson
was losing some of that characteristic fight-
ing spirit for which it had always been noted.
Whether these: rumors had any true basis
cannot be determined, but it can be said that
the team has been supported this year. And
it is true that the team has justified all the
confidence that has been placed in it.

With possibly poorer prospects than Da-
vidson has had in several years the Wild-
cats have developed into as smooth a machine
as Davidson has had the good fortune.to have
in recent times. A great deal of the credit for
this work goes to the coaches, “Monk” and
“Tex.” The men who make up the squad are,
in a way, directly responsible for the results
of the games played, and they certainly de-
serve the thanks and respect of every Da-
vidson man. In a most indirect way, yet play-
ing their part well, has been the student body
in its “win or lose” support of the team. To
the cheer-leaders goes the thanks of those
concerned for the part they have played in
the development and fostering of this spirit.
Thus we see that it has been a matter of co-
operation throughout, and that in co-operat-
ing the parties included have achieved an ex-
cellent success.

The next and last game is with Wake For-
est. There have been ten lean years in David-
son’s football relations with this school. It
seems that this is the year to break this jinx,
if it may be called that. To accomplish this it
is necessary that the student body, the
coaches, and the team concentrate their
thoughts and efforts on this one game.

A victory over the Deacons would be a fit-
ting close to the football careers of those
Sefiiors who are playing their last game for
Davidson and a suitable conclusion to an ex-
ceptional season. -

‘

A NEW PRESIDENT’S IDEAS

The University of North Carolina is to: be
congratulated on their new President, Dr.
Frank Graham, who was inaugurated on Arm-
istice Day. The inauguration brought together
leading educators of the state and of the na-
tion. Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke for the other edu-
cational institutions of the state in a welcome
to Dr. Graham.

In his inaugural address the new President
expressed his ideas in regard to freedom in a
college or university. A part of his talk fol-
lows:

“Freedom in a university runs a varied
course and has a wide meaning. It means the
freedom of students with their growing citi-
zenship to govern themselves in campus af-
fairs, and the right of lawful assembly and
free discussions by any students from any-
where on any issues and any views whatso-
ever.

“For the faculty, freedom means the right
of the faculty to control the curriculum, schol-
astic standards, and especially matters pertain-
ing to intellectual excellence; to teach and
speak freely, not as propagandists, but as
scholars and seekers for the truth with a sense
of responsibility to the truth for the teacher’s
part in the development of the whole youthful
personality; to organize their. own independ-
ent association for disscussion and statement
of views, and as an organic part of the univer-
sity help shape university policies by votes,
representation, advice, and, may we hope, a
larger sharing in the life of the university and
the people of the state.” ~

In both of these views on freedom Dr. Gra-
ham strikes a phase of college life which is
up to standard in few of the colleges of the
state; and Davidson is not among the leaders
in this line,

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Erskine

“One of the most noticeable characteristics which
we observe when we come in contact with Davidson
students is their fine, outstanding sportsmanship. They
have the virtuous habit of giving their visiting teams
not only.a square deal but also a warm handshake
which serves to make the visitors feel that they are
friends although opponents on the athletic field.

“Just for the sake of interest, let me give you an
example. At the Davidson-Erskine football game, one
of the Davidson cheerleaders noticed the pep and
enthusiasm which our own’ cheerleaders had, and in-
stead of developing a fit of jealousy, he came running
over to the Erskine cheerleading section bringing one
of their own large megaphones and handed it over
to the Erskine cheerleaders.

“We commend Davidson for its fine spirit, and we
hope that the Erskine students will show a similar
spirit of good sportsmanshrip toward their visiting
teams.” ;

Washington and Lee

Billy Howell, who is W. & L.’s main’ bid for na-
tional golf fame and prominence, was placed third
on the ranking amateur golfers of America and of
the world as picked by the Associated Press. He is
below Francis Ouimet, who is National Amateur Golf
Champion, and T. Phillip Perkins, the great British
star, and rates above Don Moe, the Western star,
Jack Westland, the Chicagoan who made such a hit
in the past National, Amateur, Maurice McCarthy,
former Intercollegiate Champion, George Dunlap, a
golfer of no mean ability, Charles Seaver, the great
Western golf and football star, George Voigt, one
of the leading players of the country, attd—Arthur
Yates, who made such a stir in the Canadian Open
and the National Amateur. This is quite an honor to
the South and to W. & L. Perhaps we have a sec-
ond Bobby Jones in this young man from Virginia.

Georgia Tech

Down at this institution, famous for its great foot-
ball teams, especially the 1928 team, a very peculiar
and daring thing occurred during the elections. There
were six ballot boxes distributed in the various build-
ings on the campus for the votes. Five of these boxes
were collected and the votes counted and the authori-
ties thought that the box had been picked up by
one of their number and would soon be in. But such
was not the case, for after waiting about two or three
days they came to the conclusion that it had been
stolen. This misdemeanor by some member of the
student body will cause the running over of the elec-
tions at Tech.

Catawba College

“Time and again we become involved in various dis-
cussions with our friends, which éither lead to some
sarcastic ending with both parties concerned satisfied
that they have gained their point, or an ending which
is reached with both parties trying to evaluate the
convictions of the other fellow in accord with his
own philosophy of life. When such discussions take
place we are prone to alter many of our former
opinions before we question the sagacity of the other
party. ;

“In the code of ethics which we practice today
there is no double standard—a thing is right, or a
thing is wrong. When our campus problems arise
every day, let us be reminded of this ethical fact.
Issues ‘will be presented and discussion will grow
out of their presentation, and we must face these
problems with convictions that must be right or

« , Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax— ‘
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

BITE-A-BONE
Presents for your entertainment:
“ATHLETES’ FETE”
(Sequel to none)
SEWWuING! sesccceccsceeceus IN A MORRIS CHAIR
SGENARIO? BYcecceccccsssiselosesecssees CHANCE

DIRECTED BY
MUSIC BY ANGLO-SAXOPHONE SERENADERS

CAST

, Dramatis Personae :
Casino: sa2serseete5-- ti onsos Count of Monte Carlo
Mike Huntry—(’Tis of thee)_------- Radio Announcer
Duke of Illyria____--------------- Brother of Malaria
Ben Wurkin-_-_-------- A.B., '97, University of Athens
Alice Ben Thunder-Bolt_-_-_--- Co-ed, Same University

(Time—Daylight Saving, B. C. 196)
(Place—Hemlock 3775)

ACT ONE (OR MORE)

Mike: Good Morning-glory! This performance
comes to you through the courtesy of the Atlas
Axle-Grease Company (“We Grease all GREECE”),
and is sponsored by the Department of American
History, of the University of Athens. This is Sta-
tion XXX, the original home of light wines and
beer. The performance begins! Please stand by.

Duke: And in the face of all this depression, O
Casino, what would’st recommend?

Casino (Sings softly): “And let the rest of the
world go buy—”

Duke: Ruffian! Woulds’t make a fool of me?

Casino: No, m’lord, I never try to interfere with
nature.

Ben: (Running up) Hail, O Peers of the Harbour
of Athens! Sad news!

Duke: Speak, lad. What grievance now mars thy
school girl complexion?

Ben: O, sir, Homer is very Iliad—near the point
of death.

Casino: That’s Odyssey. And who is Homer?

Ben: My prize pigeon, sir; and a good one at that.

Casino: (Censored).

(Fire ALARUM. Excited firemen rush hither and yon,
seeking fire.)

Duke: And where, prithee, is all this fire?

Ben: O, sir, ’tis but the co-eds of good old Athens
U. School is out.

ACT TWO

(Scene: I Tappa Keg, Sorority house. Enter Ben and
Alice. Ben is an H. A., Horticultural Architect) :
Alice: . .. But, Ben, have you no end in view?
Ben: Aye, sure, May the 3lst.
(Strange Interlude)

Alice: Ben! (Silence falls on the surroundings, and
breaks down three rose bushes.)
Ben (Coming out of the bushes): Alice! Do you
believe in love at first sight?
Alice: \No, I have astigmatism.
(Exeunt omnes)

ACT THREE

(A Turkish Bath. Enter Duke and Casino)

Duke (Paying for the bath): Zounds! They sure
soak you here.

Casino (Combing his hair): Ah, the plot thickens.
The hair restorer works!

Duke (Changing the subject, and giving Casino the
change): How is your son getting along at the Uni-
versity? :

Casino: By my trough, he does remind me of a
kerosene lamp.

Duke: And how is that?

Casino: He is not very bright; he is often turned
down; he generally smokes; and he frequently goes
out at night.

(Exit)
ACT FOUR

(At this point the action becomes so complicated, and
the technique so intricate, that it has been omitted. Let
it suffice to say that, while Casino and the Duke are
out on the Plains of Marathon, engaged in quoits (they
are bootleggers and have just delivered 12 quoits to a
prominent citisen in Athens), the papal bull breaks out
and, charging upon them from the rear, tramples on
them, and leaves them mangled, to die a horrible death,
introducing the first tragical element of the evening. At

wrong. If the other fellow has some ‘right’ on his
side, why not adopt it as your own to counteract
much of the ‘wrong’ which is in all of us? It has
been said and written that a wise man changes his
mind, but we would add that he is wise indeed, when
this change is for the better.

“The next time that you engage in a verbal inter-
change of ideas, think of the right and wrong side
before you change your mind or form any definite
convictions.”

What Do You Think?

Arthur Brisbane says that Washington is the offi-
cial worrier of the world. Well, one doesn’t have to
think very long to realize that they have plenty to
worry about.

A famous astronomer has recently included in a
treatise on the stars the statement that astronomy
has not yet discovered what keeps the stars shining.
A bright friend tells us that press agents and adver-
tising agents have a lot to do with it.

When King Carol was Crown Prince of Roumania
he was willing to give up his wife and child and a
throne for a woman, but now that his position has
changed, he is in a towering rage because his brother,
Prince Nicholas, has married a young woman from
a commoner’s family.

Armistice Day speakers who saw peace making
headway did not see it headed toward a certain place
in China called Manchuria. ee 4,

A moving picture actor is quoted as saying “a man
can love more than one woman at a time. He can
divide his affections arfd yet feel absolutely loyal to
both women.” A man who lives in the land of make-
believe might fool himself with that sort of thing
but he can’t fool the women. And they know about
such things.

There may be more tourists on the road during
this depression period, but the large majority of them
are afoot with a thumb sticking out.

Fogs and smoke hamper travel by the air; dust
on the roads makes automobile travel dangerous; but
as long as the signals work the trains on the steel
rails can move along in comparative safety and know
where they are going.

A British scientist estimates that an earthquake of
just average size generates heat equal to that pro-
duced by burning more than 3,000 tons of coal.

Mongols who live in the Gobi Desert raise no farm
crops but live almost entirely on. meat and dairy
products.

The longest outdoor newsstand in the world. ex-
tends over one-half block of a regular-sized Los An-
geles city block.

“This above all: to thine own self be true,” said
Polonius to his son Laertes in “The Tragedy of Ham-
let, Prince of Denmark,” by William Shakespeare.

Libraries throughout the nation will join in the
commemoration of National Book Week which com-
menced last Sunday, November 15, and which will
continue through Saturday, November 21. The cen-
tral theme for the observance of National Book Week
this year will be “Round the World in Children’s
Books.”

‘4

Hubert F. Lee, one of the foremost newspaper ed-
itors of the South, wrote a letter to Owen D. Young
informing him that he had been approached to head
a South-wide movement to organize “Owen D. Young
for President” clubs and asking Young’s reaction to
the subject. Here is Young’s reply:

“Dear Mr. Lee: Time and again during the last
few months I have said I would not favor any move-
ment through clubs or otherwise to promote my
nomination as President.

“IT have said that I have no desire or thought of
entering politics under any circumstances and my
disappointment is that people who seem to think that
I am qualified for the Presidency still persist in dis-
believing my statements.

“IT should think that one of the first qualifications
for the Presidency would be not only to tell the
truth, but to have all people believe that you told
the truth.

“Of course, however logical that may be, one can,
humanly speaking, easily forgive the inconsistency
which containsthe compliment that they believe you
able to hold the greatest office in the land.

“So I thank you for the compliment, and thank
yqu to do nothing.”

“Signed: Owen D. Young.”

this point it is revealed that the Duke is the father of
Alice, and Casino the father of Ben).

ACT FIVE
(Rose Garden at Alice’s Home. Enter Ben and Alice)

Alice: Is it true, O Ben, that thy father died of
hard drink?

Ben: Yes, a big block of ice fell on him, so they
say.

Alice (After a long silence): Why are you so cold,
my love, on a night like this, when we are together?
Do I not please you? A silent tongue bespeaks a sor-
rowful heart. Tell me all, dear one.

Ben (Trembling with emotion): Words fail me,

_ Alice, in describing the great love I have for=you.

But there is something I have kept a secret from
you. I am disqualified! I cannot go on like this. I—
I have, heaven help me, I have—ATHLETES’ FOOT!
My fate is sealed. “Hence, vain, deluding joys
Alice!” (Stabs self). j
Alice: Oh! My love! My love! This heart cannot
contain the sorrow it knows. Oh, that I were dead!
(At this point the curtain falls on the despairing heroine.
She expires) i
THIS IS THE LIMIT
