THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Varsity Debate Try-
' outs Soon

Although nothing definite has as
yet been decided, tryouts for the
Varsity Debating team will probably
be held on Thursday, January 239, it
was announced by Jas. A. Jones, who
is in charge. About thirty men are
expected to take part in, the pre-
liminaries, from which six men are
to be chosen to represent Davidson
College in the forensic field.

A. R. Bird, William Rule, Edgar
D. Kuykendall, P. S. Knox, and Jas.
A. Jones, all members of last year’s
debating team, are among those ex-
pected to turn out for the trials.
From all indications Davidson will
be represented by an experienced
team. The schedule will include
meets with fifteen colleges through-
out the United States.

Supt. Allen Recommends
Consolidation of Schools

Biennial Report Advises Economy
in the School Administration

Raleigh—“A're the administrative costs too
high in North Carolina,” asks Supt. A. T.
Allen in that part of his biennial report rec-
ommending economy in school administration
and suggesting the consolidation of units.

“In this state,” he says, “there are 195
separate and independent school units, 100
county systems and 95 charter systems with-
in the counties, besides a great number of
special tax districts which have many inde-
pendent privileges. The counties vary in size
from17,150 pupils enrolled in Johnston
County to 1,446 in Dare County. Charlotte
represents the largest unit among the cities
with an enrollment of 16,387. The smallest
charter school as Dobbersville with 88 pu-
pils.”

There are, according to this report, 22
units, county and charter, having more than
10,000 pupils, 17 having from 8,000 to. 10,-
000 pupils, 19 having from 6,000 to 8,000
pupils, 27 having from 4,000 to 6,000 pupils,
37 having from 2,000 to 4,000 pupils, and
73 units having fewer than 2,000 pupils.

“The combined enrollment in the 15 city
systems with from 1,000 to 1,500 pupils is
18,039. They pay a total of $48,320 for the
salaries of superintendents, or an average of
$2.68 for each pupil enrolled, The average
cost of administration in county. units is less
than 50 cents a pupil. If all of these 15 city
units were combined, they would make a
system about the size of Robeson County.”

Superintendent Allen recommends that all
charter systems having fewer than 2,000 pu-
pils enrolled be consolidated with the county
system. “If the schools with fewer than 2,000
pupils now operating under special charters,”
he says, “should come into the several coun-
ty systems, there would remain only 129
systems of schools in the state as opposed to
the 195 at present. This enlargement of ad-
mniistrative units, in my-opinion, would add
greatly to the efficiency of the public school
sytem, and make it possible to do the ad-
ministrative ‘inits, in my opinion, would add
many fewer dollars.”

ha

WILDCAT TEAM
(Continued from page 1)
Wake Forest to their credit to give them
undisputed hold on third place with a per-
centage of .500.

The Tar Heels, using a man-for-man de-
fence and utilizing the great height of their
team and fast passing as their chief offensive
weapons, are far from down and out as a
result of their lone defeat at the hands of
Davidson. These Carolina giants have a
team that is right now just about on a par
with any in the state and one which will
cause plenty of trouble. Dameron and Mar-
pet, veterans of former years, are polished
players, and Wilmer Hines, Sophomore for-
ward, showed a disturbing aptitude at the
basket from a side court position.

Wake Forest has dropped decisions to
both State and Duke and seems to be
doomed to the basement. Several of their let-
termen from last year’s squad who are still
in school did not report for basketball this
winter, and the Deacon mentor is handi-
capped by lack of material.

The race this year seems to be more
evenly balanced than ever before. No team
can yet be made an odds-on favorite, and
any one of the four leaders are in a posi-
tion to hop to the lead with a single week's
series of wins over Big Five opposition.

The standing of the teams through Satur-

Report of Allen Shows
Progress in Education

Raleigh—State Superintendent A, T. Al-

len, in chapter 2 of his report to the governor
and members of the General Assembly, pre-
;sents an array of statistics showing the
| growth in public education.
“A review of the annual school statistics
|for the past several years,” he begins the
‘chapter, “will disclose the fact that there
jare certain fundamental problems of educa-
tion which have not been solved. It will be
further observed, however, that considerable
progress has been made towards the solution
of some of these problems.” Superintendent
Allen then shows by statistical tables the
changes that have been made.

In the school year 1900-01 there were 431,-
1358 pupils enrolled; now, 1929-30 there are
866,939. The length of school term varies
from 120 days in many rural districts to 180
days in nearly all charter districts. The av-
erage term in all schools has just about
doubled since 1900-01, having increased from
80 days to 154 days. At present 500,880 or
|82.5 per cent of the white school enrollment
and 99,164 or 38.2 per cent of the colored
enrollment are in schools operating eight
months or more.

There are still a number of small schools
scattered through the rural sections of the
state—2,111 one-teacher schools, 1,345 two-
teacher schools and 530 three-teacher schools.
Large consolidated schools are taking their
place—in 1929-30 there were 988 schools of
| this type. Beginning in 1915 with six vehicles
| hauling 247 children, the activity of public
| transportation of pupils has grown until now
|there are 4,021 vehicles transporting 181,-
| 141 children to school.
|. The total cost of. public elementary and
| high schools in 1900-01 was $1,248,157; by
1919-20 this amount had been multiplied by
tere $12,214,258; and by 1926-27 it had
trebled this cost, $36,701,501.36. Since 1926-
27 the cost of education shows a tendency
to decrease. The cost per pupil enrolled was
| $44.53 in 1926-27, whereas in 1928-29 it was
$41.99. This reduction is due largely to a
decrease of building activities, the report
states.

HIGHEST RATING

(Continued from page 1)

versities of this country. In determining the
standing of the colleges, said the bulletin,
emphasis is placed on the character of the
curriculum, the efficiency of the instruction,
the standard of regular degrees, the con-
servatism in granting honorary degrees, the
toic of the institution, and its success in
stimulating and preparing students to do
satisfactory work in recognized graduated,
professional or research institutions. Other
matters considered by this rating agency in-
clude the hours of work required for gradu-
ation, the size of the faculty in proportion
to the student body, the annual operating in-
come from endowment and students, and the
material equipment and upkeep of the col-
lege.

Davidson is a meiiber of two very high
branches of educationzjmxthe United States.
It is a member of the Association of Ameri-
can Colleges and the Association of Colleges
and Secondary Schools of the Southern
States.

day night’s games is as follows:

W. iL. Pet.
Davidson: ssa ec aaa 4 0 1.000
uke eer suse stecaseee 1 0 1,000
NeGeStatersssoscesosaeeuy 1 1 .500
Caroline gee oe ne aie ad 0 1 .000
Wake Forest ~.-.-.-------- 0 2 .000

Seniors to Write Own Changes Are Proposed

| Intercollegiate Athletic
|
Excuses |

Cleveland, Ohio—(I1P)—Limitation of in-
| tercollegiate schedules, reduction of intercol-
|legiate athletic eligibility to one or two years,
| organization of two or more teams in each
|sport, and endowment of college athletics
| were proposed as possible means of reducing
| emphasis on intercollegiate football by Prof.
| Joseph E: Raycroft, speaking before the
| American Association of University Pro-
|fessors here.

Prof. Raycroft, chairman of the associa-
\tion’s committee on’ student health and ath-
letics, admitted none of the proposals were
loriginal with him, but said he believed them
ithe best of the many solutions being offered
lin the widespread. djscussion of the problem.
| He indicated little alarm over the situa-
|tion, saying there was a general decrease of
|interest in intercollegiate football on the part

e e
Journalistic Awards lof the undergraduates themselves, who often
Given by George Milton | preferred other diversions while big games
were going on.

po : me ; ; pate i i ill find con-
The late George F. Milton, president and| .“! think the next five years will fin 4
editor of the Chattanooga News, in the | Siderable improvement in the condition,” he
steer os ‘ahd . times : bat : :

earnest desire to render permanent service | Sh a tart being evidence in a num

to the cause of international peace—an ideal | P&™ Of institutions.

i i i H facie i as @ t-
to which his life was devoted—established | The plan of ae NEEL ARV: a
in his will a fund to be known as ‘the George | !¢", President o ao aa whe canes A *
F, Milton Awards in Journalism, the in- | have the ae SEO: Oh ergra' Sy
come from which is now available to South- | Ports, beth intercollegiate ch bla aaa ’
|the Princeton professor said, “was an old

As an especial privilege to all Sen-
iors, they will be allowed to write
their own excuses during the second
Although some Seniors
have not yet reached the age of
twenty-one, this new ruling will not
affect a particularly large number
of them. However, the old ruling
that students wishing to write their
own excuses must first have their
parents send requests to Dr. Sentelle
permitting them to do so still holds
for Seniors as well as members of
other clases who have attained
their majority.

t

ern writers.

For 1931, a cash award of $500 will be
made to the writer who shall publish in any
newspaper or periodical in the South dur-
ing the calendar year of 1931 the best edi-
torial or editorials advancing the cause of
international peace. The term “South” shall
be understood to mean the following states:
Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Ala-
bama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Maryland.
Some Davidson students have a good chance
to win this prize. :

Writers should submit two clippings of
their published articles pasted upon white
sheets 8 1-2 by 11 inches. One sheet should
be labeled with the name and address of the
author, name of periodical in which the ar-
ticle appeared, and date of publication. The
other sheet should contain only the clipping.
All articles should be mailed to “The George
F, Milton Award,” Division of University
Ixtension, Box 4218, The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn., and must be
received by December 31, 1931.

In addition to the award in journalism,
the Milton fund provides for a cash award
of $200 to the woman writer in the South
who shall accomplish most for her sex dur-
ing the calendar year 1931. This award will
be determined, without competition, by the
administrators of the fund.

The decisions will be announced as soon
as possible after the first of the year, and
checks will be mailed to the winners. The
administrators reserve the right to withhold
awards of no contributions are sufficiently
worthy.

Dr. Fritz Pregl, Nobel prize-winner in
chemistry in 1923, died of pleurisy at Graz,
Austria, in December, at the age of 61.

Evidence that a race of cannibals once
lived on islands just off the coast of what
is now Texas, has been discovered by
George C. Martin, one of the nation’s lead-
ing archeologists.

That a child 11 months old is more intel-
ligent than the wisest of apes is the con-
clusion drawn by Prof. Helen Hetzer, of
Berlin, after four years of experimentation.

AAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson

Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, January 19th and 20th
“REDUCING”

with
MARIE DRESSLER AND POLLY MORAN
p Wednesday, January 21st
“PAID”
with
JOAN CRAWFORD
Thursday, January 22nd

“OFFICE WIFE”

with
DOROTHY MACKAILL AND LEWIS STONE
Friday, January 23rd

“PRINCE gahlck PLUMBER”

wi
CHARLES FARRELL
Saturday, January 24th

“THE LASH”
RICHARD BARTHELMESS

VVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VY VV VYVVUYVVYVVVVYVVVYVVYVYY

|

plan 30 years ago. It was then proposed by

| Dr. Charles R. Harper, the first president

|

|
|

of the University of Chicago.”

Although the organization took no official
action on Prof. Raycroft’s suggestions, there
was considerable informal discussion of the
entire athletic situation.

It has been reported that important helium
supplies, sufficient to offer some competi-
tion to American sources of the gas which
is used for the inflation of dirigibles, has
been found in the Belgian Congo.

More dope about Solomon and his times
is expected to be uncovered when scientists
begin more extensive investigations into the
buried relics on the site of the battlefield of
Armageddon, which recently has been pur-
chased by a group of Americans.

Clarence Darrow, noted criminal lawyer
and one of the country’s outstanding agnos-
tics, has expressed tthe desire that on his
death his body be cremated. Darrow does not
believe in an after life.

The finest of the three surviving copies
of the fifteenth century Gutenberg Bible on
vellum, the gem of the Vollbeher collection,
for the purchase of which Congress appro-
priated $1,500,000, is now in the possession
of the National Library in Washington.

The United States has 150 places named
after Lafayette, and 5,000 with names of
Fretich origin, according to Dr. Henry G.

| Bayer, associate professor of French at New

York University.

When Arkansas schools opened after the
holidays, they found in effect the new state
law requiring that every student in the pub-
lic schools, from primary to high school,
shall hear the Bible read daily in the class-
room.

Literary Societies

The two literary societies of Davidson
College have suspended their meetings until
after examinations, but some very interest-
ing programs are being planned for the
coming meetings.

On Tuesday, February 3, the Philanthropic
has a debate on the subject, “Resolved: That
the United States should adopt the policy
of free trade.” The speakers for this debate
have not as yet been chosen. There will also
be a short talk in addition to the business
part of the meeting.

On that same night the Eumenean So-
ciety has planned an open forum discussion
of the subject, “Resolved: Required that
military training be abolished at Davidson.”
This society also announces that all mem-
bers having over three unexcused absences
will be dropped from the society.

Some time in the near future a deputa-
tion is to be sent from the Eumenean to
Winthrop College to give a program at one
of the literary societies there.

STUDENTS HEAR PIANIST

(Continued from page 1)

distinctly held in separate parts. This pro-
duction of Brahms is truly momentous, and
was happily fitted to open such a program.

The C Sharp Minor Sonata (better known
as The Moonlight) of Beethoven, followed
the Brahms number. Very possibly Mr.
Paderewski is peculiarly fitted to play
Beethoven, for at his age and from his ex-
perience in life, it seems that he must have
much of the Beethoven spirit. It is too bad
that a carbon copy of this particular rendi-
tion could not be made. It was superb! In
the final movement the chord in the second
measure was not repeated, but instead struck
only once. This lent, perhaps, a more force-
ful and stirring effect to those that so con-
tinually followed.

To many, Chopin’s B Minor Sonata was
the high light of the program. Here it was
that the pianist displayed his tremendous
range of dynamics; the tone colorings were
perfect. Particularly noteworthy were the
Largo and Presto movements.,

The second half of the program was taken
up by a shorter Chopin number, a Rach-
maninoff group, and four Debussy selec-
tions. The last named are necessarily inter-
esting to one fond of music. Perhaps the
best single descriptive word is, enchant-
ment. This, it seems, expresses the meaning
of the Debussy group. It would be inter-
esting to make a comparison of this with
certain works of Cyril Scott.

The listed program was completed with
a Liszt arrangement of Paganini’s La Cam-
panella. The rendition of this brilliant and
difficult number was flawlessly presented.
The technical requirements are not easy,
and.to see the facility with which this mas-
ter performed is not quickly to be forgot-
ten.

Among the encores are found two Hun-
garian Dances of Brahms, a Chopin waltz,
and finally a rather unfamiliar Moment Mu-
sicale of Schumann,

In the huge audience it was interesting
to note the large percentage of students.
Davidson was represented by about one hun-

ey :

dred and twenty-five,

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206

Arriving on January 15th, bringing good news to Davidson men,
Clothes “Made For You” under careful supervision of Stetson
“D” Tailors for the startling low prices of

$25.00

Also Stock Tuxedos at
$25.00

FRIENDLY FIVE and JOHN WARD SHOES

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
a) Xs
ra ta

CLOTHING FURNISHINGS

