THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

Football Used When Davidson Defeated
Georgia Tech 38-6, in 1900, Received

Dr. S. B. Sherard, ’01, of Gaffney, S. C.,
Manager of Team That Year,

Sends Prized Possession to
Davidson

WELL PRESERVED

Record of Team’ During the Season
and Names of Players Are
Legible

Perhaps the greatest addition to the col-
lection of victory footballs at Davidson Col-
lege was last Saturday received by Ernest
Milton, Executive Secretary of the Alumni
Association. It was the football which David-
son’s eleven used at Augusta, Ga., in 1900,
when the Davidson team, which was not
then known as Wildcats, defeated Georgia
Tech, 38 to 6.

The football was sent to the alumni office
by Dr. S. B. Sherard, '01, of Gaffeney, S. €.,
who was manager of the team that year. Dr.
Sherard was at Davidson on Home-Coming
Day, October 17th, when it was first learned
that he had the prized football in his pos-
session. He graciously offered to send it to
Davidson to add to the. present collection,
and soon it will be stuffed and on exhibition
for the eyes of alumni and for the Davidson
students, some of whose fathers played on
that team, to examine with pride.

Dr. Sherard stated that he was unaware
that this football was still in existence until
he was rummaging through some stored up
trunks at his old homestead. He then dis-
covered it, and immediately carried it with
him to Gaffney, where he kept it until it
was sent to Davidson last week.

The football is remarkably preserved, and
what is still more remarkable is that the
scores of that season and the names of the
players on the team, written in ink shortly
after the contest, are still legible. A few of
them are slightly dimmed, but most of the
names and words are discernable in a large
measure,

On the football are these words of iden-
tification, “Davidson College 38; Georgia
Tech 6; Thanksgiving, Nov. 29, ’00, Augusta,
Ga.” The record of the games played, also
written on the ball, is as follows:

Guilford 0; Davidson 16.

Clemson 64; Davidson 0.

A, & M. College 0; Davidson 17.

S. C. College 0; Davidson 5.

Georgia Tech 6; Davidson 38.

In explaining in his accompanying letter
the &-0 victory of Clemson, Dr. Sherard said
that, “We considered this a very successful
season in spite of the fact that Clemson Col-
lege beat us so much. That was due to cir-
cumstances that we could not control and
not inferiority of play.”

The names of the players on the football
follow:

Center, Johnston, J. B.

Left Guard, Fetzer, Monk.

Right Guard, Fetzer, Buntz.

Left Tackle, Rowe, John.

Right Tackle, Armstrong.

Taylor, Punter.

Left End, Wharton.

Caldwell.

Right End, Tuttle.

Quarterback, McClintock,

Wyman.

Left Half, Reid.

Huie.

Right Half, Fitzpatrick, Captain.

Fullback, Caldwell.

(Continued on page 5)

NOTICE

Have Your Shoes Rebuilt
at the

DAVIDSON SHOE
SHOP
_ Soles 85c and $1.00
- Give us a trial
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

What Sports Writers
Think

After The Davidsonian had gone to. press
last week, the sports editor of The Raleigh
News. and Observer sent a clipping to Ernest
Milton, which had been found on the sports
pages of The Charleston (S. C.) News and
Courier. It was written by Henry Cauthorn,
sports writer of the Charleston paper, and was
headed, “Davidson Trips Them Up.” It is quoted
in part as follows:

“The pickers must despise Davidson. The
fighting North Carolina Presbyterians avcrage
one big upheaval per ‘season. This year’s came
early when the Wildcats held Dulce scoreless
last Saturday. Davidson didn’t score either, but
that was all right. The nothitig-nothing out-
come was satisfactory.

“No matter how strong, no team can
let up against Davidson, especially if the
game is being played at Davidson on a
Home-Coming Day. Duke, cheered by
its big. win over Villanova, doubtless
started off in low or intermediate gear
‘against Davidson. You can’t do that
against the Davidson teams. They will
just fight you off the field and you never
will be able to get into high.

“The last time the Citadel played at David-
son it was Home-Coming Day for the Presby-
terians. About 5,000 gathered at Richardson
Field for the game. That was in 1929, The
Citadel was clicking that day. The Bulldogs
would drive the Wildcats hack to the goal line;
only to be held off. They marched up close at
least a half-dozen times. Three of these drives
carried within the five-yard line. But each time
Davidson fought them off and Brock, the great
kicker, punted out.

“Finally the Citadel scored, but missed. the
point after touchdown. In the last five minutes
Davidson passed up the field for a touchdown
and made the extra point, Brock putting through
a kick to win the game.

“That’s the kind of stuff you run into |
at Davidson. Duke experienced it in 1929.
North Carolina felt it last year, and now
Duke has experienced it again.”

One comment was omitted last week through
error, and that is what Dan McGugin, head
football. coach of Vanderbilt University, and
known as the dean of Southern football coaches,
had to say about the N. C. State-Davidson af-
fair in Greensboro. Coach McGugin acted as
field judge in the night encounter, and after
recounting his experiences as an official, he
paid one of the finest tributes ever given to
Davidson. Here are his words:
North Carolina State, with a strong, hard-
running attack, scored three touchdowns in the
first half. The Davidson team was greatly out-
weighed but it came back with a high spirit
of resolution, scored a touchdown and_ held
State scoreless during the second half,

Josh Cody told me once very earnestly
and feelingly of the remarkable spirit of

athletic union suits and shirts and

For
Men and Boys

+

REV. SMILEY WILLIAMS, ’14

!

Rev. Smiley Williams Is
Awarded Carnegie Medal

Davidson Alumnus Is Highly Recog-

nized for a Rescue Made in
Charlotte Last October

See eee —

While visiting in Charlotte last fall, Rev.
Smiley Williams, 1914 graduate of Davidson
College, and pastor of the First Presbyte-
rian Church at Welch, W. Va., heroically
rescued a child from burning to death. At
the time of his courageous act, long ac-
counts of his bravery were given in both of
the Charlotte papers, and last week high
recognition of his disregard of his own per-
sonal safety came in the award of a bronze
metal to him by the Carnegie Hero Fund
Commission,

The occasion of Mr. Williams’ visit to
Charlotte was the Home-Coming of David-
son and the re-union of the 1910 champion-
ship football team on October 25th,

This Davidson alumnus is active in other
than pastoral work at his West Virginia
residence. He a past president of the
Kiwanis Club of that city, former chairman
of the Red Cross chapter, and is chaplain of
the 150th Infantry, West Virginia National
Guard. He was the only West Virginian to
receive this medal, out of 48 awards.

is

(Continued on page 6)

the Davidson teams. Some of these elev-
ens had fought fully up to the last meas-
ure of their capacity, no doubt against
Cody’s Clemson teams. After the game
Saturday I was able to agree with Josh.
The Davidson team fought brilliantly,
scored a touchdown in the second half,
and held State scoreless from then on.
Davidson was able to score only because
of great courage and determination.
Boys who go through this sort of spir-

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials!
ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how

HANES UNDERWEAR

AoC

itual experience are made stronger.

Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

shorts are made better by HANES.

For

Every aaah

Alumni Personals

Alumni Marriages

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of
Dr. William F. Mitchell, of Shelby, father of
Dr. Thomas B. Mitchell, '20, of Shelby; of
Mrs. H. Kerr Taylor, of Tai Chow, China, sis-
ter of Irwin P. Graham, ’08, of Cooleemee; of
Arthur Brown, of Ivanhoe, half-brother of Dr.
C. K. Brown, ’21, of Davidson, and Mrs. Mary
Osborne, of Charlotte, mother of Lieut-Col.
Thos. D. Osborne, 01, of Washington, D. C.

Charles M. Pratt, ’30, and Hugh W. White,
30, have sold their newspaper in Mumfordville,
Ky., and have started another one at Owens-
boro, Ky.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, ’08, of Chester, S. C.,
has been reappointed by Governor Blackwood
of South Carolina on the Board of Medical
Examiners of that state. Dr. John W. MacCon-
nell, ’02, is secretary of the North Carolina
Board of Medical Examiners. Dr. Abell was
recently on the program of the Fifth District
Medical Society of South Carolina, when it
met in Chester.

On that same. program with Dr. Abell was
Dr. Robert W. McKay, '17, of Charlotte. Dr.
McKay will also present a paper at the South-
Medical Society when it meets in New
Orleans, La., in November. Dr. Hamilton W.
McKay, ’06, brother, of Charlotte, last week
addressed the Urological Association of Georgia
when it met in Macon.

ern

Dr. Philip B. Price, 17, who is a medica! mis-
sionary to China, has written a book, entitled,
“On Becoming a Missionary.” Publication of
the book is now being arranged by his brother,
Harry B. Price, '25, who is continuing his grad-
uate study at Yale University.

D. O. Westbrook, Jr., ’28, of New York, has
been promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant
in the Officers Reserve Corps.

Ernest F. Bohannon, Jr., ’27, is now with
May Hosiery Mills in New York, resigning
his position with the Bank of America to ac-
cept this new place.

H. LL. Campbell, ’28,
Georgetown, “S.C. since his
teaching this year at Newland.

taught
graduation,

who has at

1S

So you asked Geraldine to marry you?

Yes, but I didn’t have any luck. She asked
me if I had any prospects.

Why didn’t you tell her about your rich
uncle?

I did, hang it. Now Geraldine is. my aunt.

“W. L. Morris announces the marriage of his
sister, Judith, to Dr. William Yohannon Sayad,
on Wednesday, October 21st, New York City.”
Accompanying cards read, “At home, Palm
Beach, Fla., after January 1st.”

‘The above announcement has been received,
and no details have been obtained about the
marriage. Dr. Sayad is a 1917 graduate of Da-
, vidson, and after finishing here he studied in
| the Yale Medical School. Completing his in-
{terneship, he practiced for a time in Pough-
' keepsie, N. Y., and several years ago he went
lto West Palm Beach, where he has practiced
as an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist in that
city and in Palm Beach.

Engagement

Announcement was made last week of the
engagement and approaching marriage of Miss
Louise MicLeod, of Maxton, to George Patrick
Henderson, 1930 graduate of Davidson, of Gas-
tonia. The wedding will take place on Decem-
her 23rd. Since graduating here, Mr. Hender-
son has been teaching and coaching at Presby-
terian Junior College located at Maxton.

Births

1913—Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Davis, of Charlotte,
announce the birth of a daughter, Betty
Amelia, on October 23rd.

1929—Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Gant, of Greens-
boro, announce the birth of a daughter,
Nancy Lee, on October 8th.

Fraternities at the University of Arizona have
founded a new co-operative organization known
as the Arizona Associated Fraternities, the pur-
pose of which is to make all purchases for the
campus fraternities, and thus create a 15 per cent
saving in supplies for the organizations.

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries

Stationery — Shaving Supplies

Phone 9143

e

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.

Etc.

6,00 Square Feet of

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, (Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
: ; Engraved Cards and Invitations.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you,

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY .

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

s
