BEAT
DUKE!

The Davidsoni

fe |

‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

am

SEE STUNT:
NIGHT
PROGRAM

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 14, 1931

No. 5

GRADS TO SEE DAVIDSON BATTLE DUKE

EXTENSIVE PLANS ARE
MADE IN EXPECTATION
OF RETURNING GRADS

Full Program Scheduled With Dr.
Kenneth Foreman to Deliver the
Alumni Address

Annual Home-Coming Day will be held here
Saturday, October 17, the date of the Davidson-
Duke football game, and hundreds of alumni
are expected to visit their Alma Mater at that
time. Several thousand invitations have been
issued to the alumni, and a great many have
definitely expressed their intention of return-
ing to the campus. An extensive program,
which includes athletic events, an address, and
stunt night, has been arranged for their ben-
efit and enjoyment.

Professor Kenneth J. Foreman, a member
of the faculty and a widely sought-after speak-
er, will deliver the welcome and address to
the alumni, students, and friends of the college.
Professor Foreman was chosen by the Alumni
Association officials in conjunction with local
faculty members.

Saturday's program will begin at 11 o'clock
in the morning when the varsity and freshman
cross-country teams of Davidson and Duke
race. This event will start and finish in front
of the stadium.

“At the conclusion of the the
will assemble in Chambers Auditorium for Pro-
Foreman’s There, “College
“QO Davidson,” and other school songs
will be sung. This exercise will conclude within
an hour and at one o'clock luncheon will be
served, cafeteria style, in the banquet hall of
Chambers

At 2:30 o'clock, Davidson and Duke Uni-
versity will clash in a football game at Rich-
ardson Field. This event is always a feature
of the Home-Coming exercises and makes the
second Big Five tilt for the Wildcats this sea-

son,

race, crowd

fessor address.

Ties,’

In conclusion of the day, a stunt night will

held in the auditorium at 7:15 o'clock in
which the classes and various campus organ-
izations will participate. Those involved in this
phase of the day’s program have been working
for the past two weeks in preparation for this
entertainment.

Home-Coming Day in the past has been held
at a later date in the year, but October 17 was
chosen this fall because of the game with an
important North Carolina eleven.

be

Charlotte Minister
Is Heard in Lecture

Inspirational Message Delivered by
Doctor Edgar Gammon at Vesper
Service Sunday Evening

Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of Myers Park
Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, gave a search-
ing study of youth at the “Y” vesper services
Sunday evening, October 11. He used as his text
Mark 10:22, “And he was sad at that saying,
and went away grieved; for he had great pos-
sessions,”

“Christ,” stated Dr. Gammon, “was scarcely
more than a youth—even toward the end of
_His minisrty, therefore He understood a young
man’s problems, and makes a vivid appeal to
youth everywhere and in every age.

“The story of the rich young ruler is found
in three gospels, for it was an important and
interesting incident. In it is a message for the
young men of today.” !

Dr. Gammon first analyzed the character of
the rich young ruler. “If ever anyone had
everything,” he said, “he had it.’ He was
Wealthy, young, powerful, and besides having a
vivid personality, he possessed character, It is
clearly stated that he was rich, young and
powerful and’ his possession of a personality
is proved by the statement, “and He loved
‘him.” In the fact that he sought Jesus we
know that he had character, at least a yen for
something higher.

“Then what did he lack? We know that
something was missing. He admitted that.
There was a false note in his orchestra of life,
and the harmony was spoited. Fhe lack was
in the realm of his inner spirit.

“We live, as he did, in a restless’age. What's

(Continyed on page 6)

O. D. K. Tap Day

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa will hold its annual fall tap day on
Tuesday morning, November 3rd. At
this time members of the Senior class
will be tapped by the present mem-
bers of O. D. K.

The service is very impressive. It is
the custom of the O. D. K. to have a
member of the faculty to speak to the
audience on some phase of Omicron
Delta Kappa fraternity. After the fac-
ulty member speaks the president of
the society, J. H. McKinnon, taps the
gavel on the altar and a member of
the society rises and goes to the stu-
dent who is to be tapped and taps him
on the back. Then the one thus desig-
nated rises and follows his tapper to
the platform, if he desires to accept.

This form of the public ceremony

signifies those to whom bids have been
extended by the society.

DR. ROBERT W. MILES
WILL CONDUCT ANNUAL
FALL YMCA SERVICES

Speaker is Pastor of Westminster
Presbyterian Church in Lynch-
burg, Virginia

GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Evangelistic Meetings, Will Begin
November 10th and Continue
Through November 13th

Dr. Robert W. Miles, the West-
minster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va.,
will conduct the annual Y. M. C. A. fall evan-
gelistic services. Dates for the meeting have
been set for Tuesday, November 10th through
Friday, November 13th, according to Carl R.
Pritchett, secretary of the “Y.”

Dr. Miles graduate of Davidson, and
while here he was an outstanding leader on the
campus. He was one of the most popular men
on the hill, was a member of the football and

pastor of

Sa

basketball teams, and was prominent in several
other fields. Following his graduation from Da-
vidson, he attended Seminary, getting his bach-
elor of divinity.

He came back to Davidson in 1918 as the
first secretary of the Y. M. C A. It was large-
ly through his work that the foundation for
the present organization was laid. He is deeply
interested in the affalrs of Davidson, and thor-
oughly acquainted with the situation.

While a student at Davidson, Bob Miles was
instrumental in putting the honor system: into
effect and giving it the permanent position
which it now occupies. His student body hon-
numerous, and he was one of the
prominent men of the campus.

He is thoroughly acquainted with student life
and problems, having been student pastor at

ors were

(Continued on page 6)

“The Monkey’s Paw”
To Be Staged Soon

“The Monkey's Paw” is gradually being
whipped into shape as rehearsals go on daily,
and will be ready for presentation the week
following Home-Coming. It will play together
with “The Mayor and the Manicure,” a com-
edy in one act, upon which work has been start-
ed. The latter is the story of a college boy
who, returning home, is trailed by a scheming
woman who heard that he is the
wealthy family and plans to make good use of
her acquaintance with him. Whether she is suc-
cessful in her attempts against the rich old
gentleman is worked out in the play.

Last week the cast of “The Monkey’s Paw”
were given complimentary tickets to “Let Us
Be Gay,” a presentation by the Charlotte Little
Theatre. The capable director of that organiza-
\tion promises to be present when the Red and
Black Masquers offer their bill.

scion of a

Noted Londoh Lecturer
Douglas Booth, Will Be

Heard at Davidson Soon

“The British Foreign Policy” is Chosen
as the Topic for Discussion
Here

|
| aol

HAS HAD WIDE EXPERIENCE

Speaker is Brought Here by Interna-
tional Relations Club

|
|
|
|

j lecturer on politics and economic affairs, is to

C. Douglas Booth, of London, Mngland, noted

speak at Davidson on the night of November
12. Mri

| Endowment and his talk here will be sponsored
lhy the International Relations Club. Davidson
lis fortunate in having the opportunity to hear

Booth is sent by the Carnegie Peace

| such an authority speak. The subject will be,
| “British Foreign Policy.”
Mr. Booth is a member of the Royal Institute
International Affairs in) England, before
whom he frequently delivers lectures on inter-
national affairs. He has also spent some time
studying at the Academy of International) Law
at The Hague.

of

| Among his articles is a paper on “The Polit
ical Situation in) Southeastern Europe,” pre-

| sented before the Institute, and published in the
| Journal of the Royal Institute of, International
| Affairs. “Italy's Aegean Possessions,” published
lin 1928, is also well known in this country, as
| well as his articles written. for the American
| Peace Society at Washington, D. C
lished in “The Advocate of Peace.”
Canada is Mr. Booth’s native country and he
attended school at both St. Andrews College,
in Toronto, and Loyola University. During the

. and pub

| war he was a major in THis Majesty's Forces.

| Mediterranean and Balkan problems,

He has devoted seven years to the study of

and has
(lived or traveled in Morocco, Egypt, Rhodes,
Patmos, Athens, and Belgrade.

He has had wide lecturing experience and
done political for the National Liberal
Party of England, work America for. the
Liberty Loan and Red Cross drives while with
1H
ence lecturing in both ngland and America on

work
in

M. Forees during the war, besides experi-

international relations,

Only two ago he than
fifty International Relations Clubs in Southern
and Middte Western colleges and universities
under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment.

Some of the subjects for the lectures on his
tour “The Permanent Court of
International Justice,” {The Austro-Germanic
Raprochement as a Stabilizing Factor in Middle
A Necessity
Disarma-

years visited more

present are,

Europe,” “Balkan Consolidation
to “Remarks
ment.” “British Foreign Policy” was chosen as

European Peace,” on
the topic for discussion for his lecture here be-
cause of the interest in British affairs at  pres-
ent. Great Britain’ has just changed her gold
standard and the committee thought it appro-
priate and timely to have a discourse on a sub-
ject relating to England.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
CANDIDATES ELECTED

Fifteen Men, Representing) Five
States, Will Appear Before State
Committee December 5th

, A greater interest than usual was shown in
| seeking Rhodes Scholarship awards this year,

jdue ot the fact that a
last year. From the

| the following fifteen were selected by the execu-

Davidson man received

on numerous candidates
ltive committee to appear at the various. state
| delegations :

North Carolina heads the list with five ap-
plicants, C. W. Harrison, J. D. McConnell, E.
C. Dwelle, T. W. McLean, and S. S. Wiley.
| South Carolina comes second with D. M. Mc-
| Connell, D. M. McQueen, H. H. Harris, and
J. G. Dunklin. There were J. H. McKinnon
and J. A. Abernathy from Florida. From Geor-
| gia Roger Enloe and Grier Martin were named.
| Virginia will be represented by Murray Chris-
; tian and Tom Hill, both alumni.

These men will appear before the stat¢é com-
mittees on December 5th. Since each state will
appoint two, ten Davidson men are eligible for
the district competition. Four men from each
district will be awarded Rhodes Scholarships.

(Continued on page 6)

Annual Pictures

Representatives of the Wooten-
Moulton studios of Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, will be on the campus thru
Thursday of this week, to take indi-
vidual pictures for Quips and Cranks,
college annual.

After Thursday the representatives
will leave for Chapel Hill, where they
will begin work on the pictures for the
Yackety-Yack, annual of the Univer-
sity of N. C. The Wooten-Moulton
Studios have been engaged by the
Yackety-Yack to make their pictures
for the past seven years, and have al-
ways turned out pictures of satisfac-
tion.

The Wooten-Moulton Studios were
contracted by the Quips and Cranks
this year for the first time. They re-
place the White Studios of New York
which has had the contract here for
several years.

The Quips and Cranks’ staff earn-
estly asks the student body to co-op-
erate in having their pictures taken
before Thursday night.

CHARLES PEARCE WINS
VICE-PRESIDENCY OVER
TWO IN SECOND VOTE

Charles Pearce, Bob McCallie, Council
Members Chosen

last week,

Florida,

the student bedy election
Charles Of Plant City, Was
elected vice-president of the student body. At
first there were three candidates for the office.
Bob MeCallie and Brooke Allen were suggest-
ed by the nominating was
nominated from the floor, In the primary elec-
tion, Pearee and MeCabie advanced to” the
finals. The election proved to Ae interesting as
the men brought up-are all well known and

In

Pearce,

committee. Pearce

active in campus affairs.

Pearce is a member of the Junior class and
Was initiated into Kappa Sigma social fraternity
last year. He is also a the varsity
football team and has played an important part
Saseball is an

member of

in football games this season.
other sport in which Pearce took part,

In the election for Senior Student Council
representative, Samuel Shannon Wiley, of Salis-
bury, N. C., was elected, The other candidates
for this position were William Rule and J. D.
McConnell. Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity, Beaver Club, Report-
ers Club, Omega Phi Alpha, Scabbard and
Blade, Delta Pi Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, the
Golden Quill, International Relations Club, and
Sigma Upsilon. He is also a member of the
Y. M. C. A. Board and was vice-president of

the Junior class.

Dr. Oren Moore to Be
Vesper Speaker

At the Y Vespers service to be held next

Sunday will speak Dr. Oren Moore. Dr Moore,

who is well known throughout the South as a
baby specialist, is thought of at Davidson as

one of the most loyal supporters of the college. |

In everything concerning the activities of Da-
vidson he is deeply .interested. Perhaps he is
most enthusiastic over Davidson football. His
is a well known figure at all of the college
games, but it is never seen in the stadium, he
always sits on the players’ bench, and he is
one of the first to go onto the field in the case
of an accident. Dr. Moore’s enthusiastic inter-
est in football at Davidson was appreciated so
much by the Athletic Association that it award
ed him a gold football as a token of that ap
preciation. Dr- Moore himself has participated
to a great extent at one time in athletics. He
was formerly well known as a fine footballer
and boxer.

Dr. Moore has been heard here before with
a great deal of pleasure, and it is needless to
say that his talk on Sunday is being looked
forward to with much expectancy |b} the student
body.

WILDCATS MEET DUKE
BLUE DEVILS HERE ON
SATURDAY AFTERNOON

Large Crowds of Supporters of Both
Teams Are Expected to Witness
Contest

The Davidson Wildeats, with two victories
out of four games to their credit, will meet the
Duke Blue Devils Saturday afternoon on their
own home field, Out of the three games played

this season, Duke has won two, these being with

1} V.M. 1. and Villa Nova; their conqueror was

the Chiversity of South Carolina. Last year
Davidson met Duke in Durham and the battle
ended in a 12-0 victory for Duke. Davidson has
heen victorious over Duke four out of the nine
games since 1922,

The renewal of this ancient rivalry this year
the supporters
ardent

has heen looked forward to by
of both teams:
fans is expected to gather at Davidson for this
Home-Coming Day.
South Caro-

and a great throng of

vreat epic on Davidson's

Atte
lina in her opening game, Duke made a com-
plete reversal of form to outelass V. M. T. and
Villa Nova. In these games the Blue Devils un
corked a smashing attack led Brewer
annihilated that

a poor showing against

hy Wid

which completes any defense

their could) put up

Last Saturday Blue Devils
to take advantage of the eight fumbles by Ville
Nova. Throughout the game the Devils tackled,
blocked, rushed, and held on to the ball ina
manner that they had not shown previously this
season. Captain Kid Brewer, fullback, was the

opponents

' ; oy
te were Quick

Most outstanding man of the day. He averaged
pproximately four yards a try for his twenty
five chances with the ball and after digging for
extra vardage with several tacklers hanging: to
made two of Duke's three touch

him Brewer

downs

Brownlee, left half, and) Mason, right half,
also showed their power. Emery Adkins, center,
Stiowed best in the line, often smashing through
to down opposing backs for losses. Crawford,
left end; Bryan, left and Friedman,
right tackle, also made going rough for the op-
position and will probably be the leaders in the
Saturday. Brownlee

tackle,

attack against Davidson
snageed an cight-yard pass from Mason to race

ten yards for the second touchdown.

Past scores of Duke-Davidson games :
Yoar Duke Davidson
1922 WAS en)
1923 18- peat (6)
1924 Ge ecg
1925 OES » ee =20)
1926 Qseees ep onee/41)
1927 ie 48_- ee /
1928 . SeeOGe coe eee 0
1920 hie oon Ga ts eps ty |)
1930 pike ts silZ ds {)

Le Cercle Francais

Bids Nine New Men

Roscoe Prince, Charles Myers and
Lewis Hand Are Officers for
This Year

lee
|

Le Cercle Francais, fraternity,
which has been established here on the campus
number of years, has recently pledged
members. It the of “Le
to reward outstanding merit

an honorary

nine few is purpose
Cercle Francais”
in the study of the French language and French
literature, and also to. stimulate interest in
French

The ensignia for the pledges is very fitting.
It is the French Tri-Color, and the pledges are
required to wear it for three days. Men are only
pledged to this fraternity once a year and it
is considered quite an honor to be a member
of it

The officers which were elected for this year
are:. Roscoe Prince, president; Charles Myers,
vice-president, and L. N. Hand, secretary and
treasurer. Three of last year’s officers are back
in school again this year.

The nine pledges to “Le Cercle Francais” are:
W. W. Cashion, W. H. Coble, Bill Flinn, John
Thompson, C. W. Harrison, W. A. McKnight,

Fred Hellegers, L. T. Newland, and H. W.

Ryburn.
