THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

Book Review

S. S. San Pedro, James Cozzens, Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York.

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—The Palmer Physics
| Laboratory of Princeton University, it was an-
{nounced by Dr. Robert J. Van de Graff, has
| perfected a simple and inexpensive method of
| building generators capable of developing 15,-
, 000,000 to 20,000,000 volts, which experts be-

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—One of the largest | ing from where ever it’s getting its. mail at

series of mural paintings ever undertaken for
jan American college is being executed for
Princeton University. Nine panels, each 8 by
12 feet, have been ordered for the trophy room
jof the university gymnasium. Athletic games

To try to give a review which contains a lieve finally opens the way to the realization or individuals will be depicted in the murals.

synopsis of a story which has an action

which is as fast-moving as is the action of

“S. S. Pedro” is to try to put into compact |

and prosaic form something which is al-
ready so condensed, so fast-moving, and so
gripping that it holds the interest from the
beginning. Perhaps its very brevity accounts
for part of its charm. In fact, a story like that
told in this new book by Mr. Cozzens is best
told in a short space, a space which, if possible,

should not last longer than the time which | covered in Galilee the remains of what appeared |

should actually be needed for the execution of
the story.

The story in brief is that a ship which leaves

port with a slight list runs into bad weather,

its doom is foreseen early in the story, and the |
officers struggle desperately to solve the problem |
of what is wrong, to keep the passengers from

going into a panic, and to try to save the ship.
The horror of the impending disaster slowly
increases, nothing can be done to avert it, and

the ship finally goes to the bottom. The sinking |
of the ship as seen psychologically through the |

eyes of a member of the officer staff who is
saved is almost pathetic. It is commonly be-
lieved that Mr. Cozzens’ story is based to a
certain extent on a marine disaster which oc-

curred several years ago on the North Ameri- |

can coast. There is a quickness, a glamour, a
sense of impending disaster which make this
sea story truly a notable achievement.

The diction is simple, the prose is straight- |

forward and clear-cut, there are no deep phil-
osophical and psychological problems which will
baffle the average reader. His portraits are
particularly impressive. Every man on the ship
rises up among the pages as a definite person-
ality. His characterization of the captain is un-
usually good, He pictures the captain as an
old. man, a sick man, who is absolutely helpless

when the inevitability of the impending trag- |

edy slowly comes upon him. Some of Mr. Coz-
zens’ des¢fiptions are nothing short of won-
derful. For instance his description of the flood-
ed engine room:

“Under a raw, thin fog of vapor the engine
room depths formed an infernal swimming pool.
Like monster green hogsheads the turbine cases
rose in a fantastic steel swamp. Incredible vege-
tation flowered; white piping; flattened-out lay-
ers of open-work footways. Stairs edged with
brass rail plunged down, leading nowhere.
. . » Below, water moved about regularly, sway-
ing to the sluggish roll. The engine room shaft
echoed like a sea cave.”

Beautiful is the description of the S. S. San
Pedro on her first night out:

“Steady and strong through the infinite ocean
twilight the San Pedro maintained her seven-
teen knots. The vital quiver of her engines
gave her a mounting wave of vibration, like a
piano feeling the pedal. Her warm untroubled
breath trembled up her shafts and ventilators.
She was calm in the lucid radiance of her early
lights. Around the dining room~a whole half-
deck of her stirred. with more intense activity.
In the balcony the orchestra was gathering;
by the buffet the chief steward was checking

the flowers on the many tables. He made a|
signi ‘to his assistant that the doors ‘might be |

opened when he: heard the gong. Aft, the smok-
ing room was murmuring, expansive in crowd-
ed comfort; ice rattled in the bright bar; mild
air moved in the doors open on the deck be-
hind. Seen from here, the smoke-soiled mast
with the hidden glow of the running light, the
booms laid down, the dim sunset radiance re-
maining on the steerage superstructure, all rose
ard fell together gently. Astern, the quiet
ocean, neither blue nor black, extended in lim-
itless ease to the faintly colored horizon, dark-
ening now to evening at the end of the San
Pedro’s-steady white wake.” :

Vivid in its telling, absorbing to the very
end, everyone will find “S, S. San Pedro” ex-
cellent reading.

W. W. Franklin,

Intercollegiate News

London—(IP)—A fire which destroyed the
physics laboratory of St. Andrews University
blotted out the results of the chemistry re-
searches of Sir James Irvine since 1906. Sir
James is the principal and vice-chancellor of
the university. :

The laboratory, which opened in 1926, con-
tained valuable chemicals and sugars which Sir

James had discovered, as well as reports on!

researches concerning them.

Big Five Teams

Standings

The standings:

Team We eT Pet.
North Carolina ----____- 3 0 0 1,000
Ni Gi State: 2222214 < 2 2 0 «500
Dake oes ees tl 1 See
Wake Forest __-------- 1 2 0 333
Davidson: <2 222222222 0 2 1 000

|of the age-old dreams of the transmutation of
elements.

The new generator, when built, is expected to
furnish science with a new tool with which to
carry on its attempt to smash the atom.

|

Ann Arbor, Mich—(IP)—The University of
Michigan has announced that an expedition di-

|rected by Professor Leroy Waterman has dis- |

to be an early Christian Church.

hour’s walk from the home of Jesus.

| Walter Winchell

Walter—
American’’—or

Winchell’s

“Gossip's

Mrs. bad little
| known Greatest
vice and verse ah, is now “telling all” over the
jradio, having recently “middle-aisled” it with
jthe sponsors of the Lucky Strike Dance Hour—
| promising to be yery, very bad throughout all

boy,

as

jof the programs, for a limited period of four
weeks,

| Walter introduces the various famous dance

The find was made at Sepphoris, only an} bands that are heard on these thrice weekly

|Programs—a different band each period, play-

the: moment—to say nothing of slipping the
dear radio public the very latest “insides” on

j Phone's face red?

| For those who want waltzes with — their
Winchell, there’s Wayne: King and his Orches-

movie star’s favorite rhythms that are desired
after “little boy peep” has stopped for breath,
Gus Arnheim and his Orchestra are playing
once a week from Los Angeles. And, of course,
there’s the quickened tempos of Andy Sannella’s
Orchestra playing from New York for those
who want their music like their gossip—“low
down.”

In tact there's never been anything like it
on the radio and already telegrams and letters
from enthusiastic listeners may be found on
the desks of the sponsors, piled way up to
here.

personalities of the “daze.” And is the micro-'

; ‘ ‘ PER \
tra, floating in from Chicago—or if it’s the

Winnipeg, Man—(IP)—An International
disarmament Party, which was begun as the
result of a student conference in Canada early
in the fall, is sweeping the dominion’s universi-
ties, according to the Manitoban, undergradu-

ate publication of the University of Manitoba,

and is also gaining strength in other quarters.

One of the first definite aims of the new
party is the presenting of a petition to the

'Prime Minister asking that Canada be repre-
"sented at the Geneva Disarmament Conference
‘in February by public men who show by their
‘action, as Canada achieves
‘world’s interests are her interests.

nationhood, the

Efforts are being made to have the students ”
of the Canadian universities vote solidly with
the new party at Canadian elections.

It had gained a firm stronghold in eastern
universities and is rapidly becoming popular in
those of the middle and far west of the domin-
ion.

|
|

cigarette.

Broadcasting System

AMELS

Made FRESH — Kept FRESH

CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton
Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel
Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard,
every night except Sunday, Columbia

Everyone knows now that Camels ‘are the fresh

If inquiry went deeper, it would reveal that Camels
are the natural moisture cigarette.

That’s important, because in handling fine to-
baccos, when you process out natural moisture, you
sacrifice freshness and flavor too.

Camel smokers needn’t worry about that, because
Camels are blended of fine Turkish and mild Domestic
tobaccos that are never subjected to violent process-

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs

PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice
Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert
Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan,
every night except Sunday, N. B. C.

Red Network,
See local paper for time

Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of
Camels after you open it.The Camel Humidor Pack is protection
against perfume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and
homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel
Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the
last one has been smoked

4

ever parched, never tousted

CAMELS are FRESH

in nature’s own mild way!

ing. They need no parching or toasting to make them

smooth, palatable, cool.

That’s why the Camel Humidor Pack is such a boon
to Camel smokers—it preserves the freshness, flavor,
natural moisture, fragrance that are in this fine ciga-

rette to start with.

Camels are fresh in nature’s own mild way, and if
you want to see what that means in unalloyed smoke-
enjoyment, switch to them for just one day — then

leave them, if you can!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY

Winston-Salem, N. C.

lds Teb Cc

@ 1961, R. J. Rey

