THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

. NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

New York (IP) — The college ‘senior
fared rather more badly than the college
freshman in a report issued this past’ sum
mer by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching.

According to the -report, based on. tests
given more than 10,000 college students in
Pennsylvania colleges and universities, the

ot forgetting” caused the senior to

lose, ev
of the
years at

en before getting his sheepskin, much

knowledge he had acquired during

our school.

“The college senior recognizes only 61 out

of 100 words in familiar use by educated
persons,” the report said. “The effect of col-
lege on the word supply of the ordinary

student appears to be almost negligible and

in sume cases positively injurious.”

lhe schooleand college curriculum,” the
repr added, “consists of little else but iso
lated packages of specific ideas, segregated
for the time being in self-contained courses,
clecte semester-wise and cut off by ex-
aminations and credits from any other liv-
ne nditions. The sacredness of such SYS=-

credit coinage dominates both teach-

pupil.

nad

raw information which the courses

presented and which, with proper treat-
ent, might have contributed to a fine body

intellectual equipment, was dumped out-

ght at the close of the successive terms,
and when the student came out of college
lis effective knowledge amounted to little
nore than when as° a freshman che entered
the institution.”

New York—(IP)—A lowering of economic

standards in the teaching profession has
been caused by “over feminization and a lack
ol ade ate publicity in the school system,”
Ir Wi rd oS. Elsbree, associate professor

of education at

“Teachers’

University, said in a survey on
Salaries.” released by the Columbia Bureau
of Publications

Princeton, N. J.—(P)—Princeton this fall

will dedicate a new scientific building erect

ed in memory of Dean Henry Burchard Fine,

former’ Prineeton mathematician, One of the

features of the structure is the mathematical

equations and geometric figures which ap

pear in the stained-glass windows

Cleveland, Ohio--(IP)—A  neted  psychol-
ogist has given the following requirements
af a scholar:

Understanding -and appreciation: of other

races and cultures contemporary remote,

\bility
controversial

or
and disposition to weigh evidence
in matters,

bility and, disposition to mentally project
an undertaking through its successive steps
before undertaking it.

Skill in explanation and prediction. ©

\bilitv and disposition to look beneath the
of
\bility to do reflective thinking.

surface things before passing judgment

Disposition toward continued study and in
telleetual cultivation.

Critical and questioning attitude toward
traditional sanctions.

Clarity in definition. “

Discrimination in vafues in reacting to en-
vironment, social and physical.

Analytical approach to propositibns lead
ing to the detection of fallacies and contra-
lictions,

\bility and disposition to observe accu-
rately and systematically.

“Understanding and skill in the use of pro-
cesses of induction, deduction and generali-
zation.

The ability to see relationships and ac-
curacy in their interpretation.

A freshness of interest with respect tothe
developments of knowledge.

London—(IP)—The combined Yale-Har-
track team
combined Oxford-Cambridge tracksters with
a score of 71-2 to 41-2. The event was the
tenth of its kind, and the victory gave the

vard this summer defeated the

Americans six wins over their British rivals

in the series.

York (1P)—Speaking before the
Association the

New
Eastern Selection of
football officials here recently, Major John
L. Griffith, of the Western
Conference expressed the belief that while
football might not draw as many fans this
year as in previous years, he expected fully
as much interest in the sport throughout the
country

for

commissioner

actates [Ertonnote

Pittsburgh, Pa—(IP)—Henry Smith Prit-
chett, president of the Carnegie Foundation
for the Advancement of Teaching, warned
colleges in his annual report this summer
that continued exploitation of -football as a
college money-making game, would lead to
governments taxing colleges as profit mak-
ng organizations.

Teachers College, Columbia,

Delewa

sits

this part of the

re,

Ohio
kins Observatory at Ohio Wesleyan Univer
hope that before the solar eclipse visits

country next year they will

Scientists

at Per-

Carl Pritchett, Secretary

ol

Y. M. C. A. Will Hold

Freshmen Smokers

Social Gatherings to Better Acquaint
Freshmen Will Begin Next
Wednesday Night

Davidson Col

Mathis, alternate captain, and “Buddy” Gard- |
ner had a word or two to say on the subject. |
The band was on hand in full force and the new
assistant cheerleaders, Sugg and Allen, occtr-
pied their new posts for the first time.

Up to last Friday night, only Freshmen at-
tended the pep meetings this year. At these
meetings, Ed Kuykendall attempted to teach the

Davidson Five Years

| Ago

Martin, being interviewed by a David-
ian reporter, stated, “That the greatest
need of the college at the present is ‘a build-

D1

Aveo tenn tan ie mammoth 69-inch |, Freshmen the songs and yells. From NOW OM} ing fund. The sources of such a fund, the
ele ETE ae ; i: rld lege Y. M. C. A. announced today that on]all the student body is wanted at Shearer -Hall esident added. “were far from certain. At
Inirror,the: third larges he world, now ce “ " <5 ; . ith adn die shanna Reach : . ss
} tated 1 { ; Wednesday night September 30, there would }on Friday nights. j SRE OE Onlv sol Gee Ob ieome: fOr
emg mstailed mm we OMservatory, ¢ ° e - or *
Y he held a social for the freshmen. The social - huildis are the pledges from the various
; will be held at the Secial Center building at 4 } ! ur fr of ledge
OT ee ae Pad Ee ' at cany nse The turns from such pledges
Philadel t ndred eS
Sand dollars whic ri & Drchndy loss me PS ] S t re indefinite t ay the least.” declared Dr.
eigenen tenes eae ee aii eer a ys ; wif! opular or , the 1 of .
Will Bequeathed to University, will go The purpose of this smoker will be = to Ss p D p Marti and depen 1 the od of the
to Lehigh Universit “idee ae oBti telp the freshmen to become better ac = ; viver. It is only. with a large building fund
i dike fad Avg . | quainted with the uppercldssmen and espe Players Imported From the Argentine that anything can be accomplished.
cil discovered in OF the 1ate Dra ? $ . H
Ppa : Ser : cially with the leaders on othe campus. Only With Salaries Running to $12,000 7
Charles W. McFarlane, momist and en ae : Toe McConnell, Wildcat center, scored the
‘ineer, who died last May about twenty-five freshmen will be invited : UO emer ecees veneetae ;
eae) ; aera Ae he first time so as te help them know 4h Rome, Ttaly—(1P)—-Foothall, which as al] tirst touchdown of his college career when
he codicil explained that the exchange : ; Ms er el sete lbs {out | h 1 peated f rd pass and dashed 55
nade becau nor believed. the [ther better, A social or smoker of this {Professional game appears to be the most pop-|he intercepted a forward pass and dashed 5:
Wie AU Ce DECAYS t BU hve ste we eea Esaec bie at acc | 4 A }, | ular great Italian sport, would be of less im-| yards through the Wofford team for a
mey would do more good in the smaller} °"" * ve held each Wednesday night ; |
sch J ae aes ; funtil all the freshmen have attended portance here, it was doled recently, were | touchdown
; : ; s AG [ey a : iteonot fer the large number of excellent foot —.
Phe bequest will Lehigh to com- IS BY CI SPONsOred Dy SHG de Ns Cols a yaterialewHie is imported annually from} With the opening of the new year, Prof.
ete an economic of the Romany#ud ts another move to help the ireshimen | 4), Argentine, where in 25 years football has | We d took over his duties as graduate man-
empire started by “arlane, who was |! me better acquainted rowel bye lbane find Gourds lager of athletics at Davidson. He succeeded
engaged for many thie preparation | Within the last 18 months 31 Argentine foot- | Dred. M. Douglas, who had been the grad-
of thé history and rathered many | poe : 7. ane APS F ; vot |iate manager since the creation of the office.
see ase A ah zm pee iFirst Pep Meeting for hall player have come to Italy under contract | uate \ ‘
thousand excerpts and references to sources, | : it salaries of from $4.250 to $12,500 | tid ; § io call
i ak ‘ P4t,e6 1 hey 1 yetitio Or ¢ oO av. tC ye given to &
which he partly catalogued. Upperclassmen is Held |” 1... came hetween Rome and Genoa te. {Phe Petition for ach yee
| 2 pen : istudents attendi the North Carolina State
cently seven Argentines played on one side and F aie 1a |
114 \ } | . : : eam to be plaved in Raleigh October 14th,
South Hadley, Mass Speaking be | Student Body Gathers in Shearer our on the other chal : eG Ge cuiie CeOnITtCe
es an peepee was granted by e execu ommitt
re the tenth annua Ing of the Intet Before State Game VW ot the players, it happens, are sons or | Sa
§ Wet cartail provisions
hational Student Ser at Mount Jolyoke! randsonus of Italians and have Italian names, | OES LA bales
College here, Dr. Walter M. WKotschnig ot Last Friday evening, before the State game} ond their \rgentine citizanship is not adver a) a
Austria said he bel | unemployment} the first pep meeting was held in whieh the} tised to the public here various teams of the country, and so lifted the
situation could be on the colleges | wh student) body took part. This meeting Premier Mussolini’ recently prohibited fur-| ban temporarily to allow all teams to fit them-
for their failure to with vital economic} was held in Shearer Hall, whieh was led. | ther WMportation of players, but found that this | selves up with enough Argentines to be able
problems, There was no regular speaker, but “Doe” | would make for gross inequalities among the! to play other strong teams.
® a i a
ealed Tight — Ever Right
Th Uni
Zip
|
and it’s open!
e
See the new notched tab on the
top of the package. Hold down
one half with your thumb. Tear
off the other half. Simple. Quick.
Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped
in dust-proof, moisture -proof,
germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected,
neat, FRESH! — what could be more modern ,
than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package
™=so easy to open! Ladies — the LUCKY tab is
— your finger nail protection.
HRN HH H
Made of the finest tobaccos — The
Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone
offers the throat protection of the exclusive “IT'S TOASTED”
“TOASTING” Process which includes the use of
J

modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that
expels certain biting, harsh irritants naturally
present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled
irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE!
” They're out— so they can't be in!“ No wonder
LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

ClcarerTES

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection= against irritation= against cough

~

* ”

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps S

that “‘Toasted’’ Flavor Ever Fresh

©1931, The American TobaccoCo., Mfrs.

TUNE IN—The Lucky
Strike Dance Orchestra,
every Tuesday, Thurs-
day and Saturday eve-
ning over N. B.C.
networks.

