THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1931

|

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
legiate Year. Entered as second
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
class matter at the Post

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Sidckessdcscesscidesis MONOren sGniet

yo; “CON WAY eos si ca sbal css cc cas scccceus Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E, O. GUERRANT...........-...--.—-..-,.--.Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE.. .--Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE ..-Managing Editor
Cc. F. MYERS ..-Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.._- Ae ..-Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON. ...Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN.. Feature Editor
Hy Wi ERV ENG... Review Editor
J_E AKE.... Editor
E. C. DWELLE, JR Editor
W.-S BAS. Editor
W. H. MATTHEW Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

A. M. MANSON _..----.-----Assistant Business Manager
AS Ss SPIO DON losseees Docc ccke ecole Assistant Business Manager
i, W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager

. R. MORROW Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSO> psacscc BOUlCICor.
oR NEAL -Solicitor
ik Wootto -___ Solicitor
A, H. MANSON....-..2-2.,-2.2.-.-2--.----5------=- Solicitor
A. eevsease President
if _...Vice-President
W. Des seaee “cretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

B, B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E, LORRAINE

J. E. BOYD , FE. L. POWELL

5. P, PRESTON Rk. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD \. F. SCHENCK

O. CASALI W. M, THOMPSON

L, Wy CLARDY., JR. W. T.. THOMPSON

JACK. WILLIAMS J. A. HUNTER

OCTOBER 14, 1931

Large streams from little fountains flow,

Tall oaks from little acorns grow.
—David’ Everett.

PARAGRAPHICS

Honor to whom honor is due—Mr. E. O. Guerrant
wrote the editorial entitled “Making Use of One’s
Opportunities,” which appeared in last week’s David-
sonian, concerning the advantages of knowing the
faculty, better. Ve

D

The last quarter at V. P. I. should have been
omitted!

D

vv

Dean Rusk, on his way to Oxford, was a visitor on
the campus last week. He is a little late, due to his
sickness, and we trust that he won't miss out on the
orientation program over there! Davidson wishes him
every success.

D

vv

Let’s be out Friday and help the Freshmen beat
the Wofford Rats. The Wildkittens seem to have
the necessary power, and they certainly are well-
coached,

D.

It has béen demonstrated that Wallace Wade is
not a “wonder man.” It’s up to us to show Duke a
few other things about this game of football!

D

The Glee Club is sponsoring the annual stunt night
program after the Home-coming game. These enter-
tainments are always interesting and amusing.

D

Fall seems to have at last arrived! The leaves are
falling off the trees, and it is getting a bit cooler.

HOME-COMING

The word “home-coming” means very little to
a great many of the students at Davidson. It is
a date, a holiday, a big football day—farther than
this it is impossible for the average student to
understand the deeper sentiment attached to a
real home-coming. The majority of the student
body has never been away from home enough to
become really “home-sick,” and to experience the
thrill of returning again to the place that they
love best, after a long absence.

But to the alumni, both young and old, it is
an event long anticipated, one on which they will
look back with a great deal of pleasure. Their
feelings on that day, as they view the old campus
once again, are of such a nature as to make them
inexpressible. If one can put himself in the place
of the returning alumni, he will find it more easy
to understand his emotions.

Thus it seems that the least the student body
can do for these men is to turn the campus over
to them entirely on this, their “Home-coming
Day.” Be nice to them, help them in any way
possible, and see that they are entertained. One
day out of the year seems small enough recogni-
tion for those men who have gone before; let’s
make it wholly theirs!

Then in later years when we are wont to re-
turn to “The Hill” on Home-coming Day we may
expect the same treatment.

LEST WE NEGLECT

“Let us endeavour so to live that when we come to

die even the undertaker will be sorry.”—Mark Twain.

In striving to live an all-round life, very few of us
find ourselves able to include everything we should, and
give to each thing the proper place it should occupy, or
the importance it deserves. We place the emphasis, all
too often, on the wrong thing, and leave out many things
that are of great value. There is one in particular we
would like to urge the value of.

Whether you are reciting in class, leading devotionals

in chapel, making an after-dinner speech, seeking advice,
or making love:

You like to be able to express yourself well.

Whether you are selling a car, a book, an idea, or a
skyscraper, you will find self-expression the open sesame
(or the shibboleth).

“Speech is the index of the mind,” said Seneca, and

his name lives for what he said. Every day we see count-
less examples, in literature, on the stage, and over the
air, of “That which oft was tho’t, but ne’er so well ex-
pressed.”
1 neglect so vital an asset for a well-rounded
life? Are you going to be the man with the sceptre, or
the man with the hoe? If you can’t write a letter for a
job, that will bring results, how can you ever hope to
write a check;

There is one activity on the campus the whole aim of
which is to attain clearness of speech and diction, force-
fulness of argument, and powerful self-expression. If it
is not all that it should be, it is because you have not
helped it out. It is the ltterary society. Read, in the pre-
amble of the constitution of the Philanthropic Society
how “We... . deeply sensible of the great importance
of properly fitting ourselves for acting well our respective
parts in the great arena of life, have resolved to form
ourselves into a society, the objects of which shall be
intellectual, moral and Social improvement. ... . It shall
be the aim of this society to cultivate the arts of elocution
and composition, to promote a spirit of subordination to
law and order, by engendering a high regard for virtue

and truth, and... . unite... . in closest bonds of friend-
”

Con you

ship and fellow feeling ....

Do not join, or fail to join, a literary society simply
because of what it is; but for what you may help it to
become. i

Read, on page 5,:the view of one whom we both know
and admire, the text of which he has kindly permitted us
to publish.

And if you’re the man ‘we think you are—we'll see
you next Tuesday night at 7:00.

DUNCAN McBRYDE.

EXCHANGE

4

The Brackety-Ack, of Roanoke College at Salem, Vir-
ginia, announces that Lincoln Steffens, newspaper man, au-
thor, lecturer, philosopher, and optimist, has been en-
gaged to deliver an address at that college on the night
of November the 23rd. Mr. Steffens will speak on the
subject, “The Meaning of the Russian Revolution.” This
speech will be of keen interest not only to the students of
Roanoke Gallege but also to the people of the United
States as well who, to a large extent, do not know what
the Russian Revolution was and what the results were.
He will, in all probability, tell something of the Russian
Five Year Plan. This lecturer is a very learned man,
having attended six universities, Berkeley, Heidelberg,
Leipzig, Berlin, Paris, and London, and is a war corre-
spondent of some note. He was formerly a reporter of
the New York Evening Post; city editor of the Commer-
cial Advertiser; managing editor of the McClure Maga-
zine, and he is well known for his reports of the Mex-
ican and Russian Revolutions, the Fascist uprisings in
Italy, and the Peace Conferences:

The Stormy Petrel, the college newspaper of Ogle-
thorpe University, located just outside of Atlanta, an-
nounces that their football team, called the Stormy
Petrels, have been invited to play in a benefit game in
Chicago next month against either Carnegie Tech,
Princeton, Alabama, Cornell, Penn State, Tennessee,
Colorado, Utah, Vanderbilt, or Washington and Jeffer-
This invitation was received by Dr. Thornwell
Jacobs, president of Oglethorpe, from the Illinois De-
partment of Disabled Veterans of the World War. As
all of these teams had open dates on November the 21st,
the date of the charity battle, one of these will be se-
lected as Oglethorpe’s opponents with Oglethorpe choos-
ing whom they wish to play. It is not definitely known
whether Oglethorpe will play in this game or not, for the
authorities of the school will have to sanction it.

son,

According to The Technician, of N. C. State, Dr. W.
L. Lingle is a member of the executive committee of
the North Carolina Conference of Colleges, with Dr. E.
C. Brooks, president of N. C. State, as president. Other
members of the executive committee are: W. H. Frazer,
of “Queens-Chicora, vice-president; N. W. Walker, of
the University of North Carolina, secretary-treasurer ;
Dr. A. T. Allen, State Superintendent of Public Educa-
tion, and Dr. Holland Holten, of Duke.

From The Sewanee Purple, of the University of the
South at Sewanee, Tennessee, comes the report that 67
men were pledged by the fraternities at Sewanee recently.
Phi Delta Theta got nine men; Pi Kappa Phi, six; Kap-
pa Sigma, three; Kappa Alpha, six; Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon, six; and the Phi Gamma Delta, five.

There were two delegates from Sewanee at the Na-
tional Church Convention held in Denver, Colorado, a
few weeks ago. They were Dr. Benjamin F. Finney, rep-
resenting the Diocese of Tennessee, and the Rev. Mr.
Moulton Guerry, representing the University of the
South. . ‘

From The Chronicle, of Duke University, we learn
that rushing season was a huge success for both the fra-
ternities and the sororities. The sororities pledged 105;
the fraternities, 257. Phi Delta Theta topped the list with
24; Kappa Alpha was close behind with 23; Pi Kappa
Alpha pledged 19; Kappa Sigma got 11; Pi Kappa Phi
put the button on 23; Sigma Phi Epsilon got 16.

The Red and Black, of the University of Georgia,
made quite a mistake in their paper last week when they
wrote up the doings of their Rhodes Scholar, M. P.
Jarnagin, II], and ours, Dean Rusk. They stated that
Dean was from the University of North Carolina; quite
a big mistake. We do appreciate their writing of Dean’s

eo illness and we will forget the error.

DES ENTREFILETS

The President’s plan, which has caused so much
comment in the last few days, to provide a method
of aiding banks in distress, is proceeding with ex-
ceptional rapidity. The Federal Reserve Banks have,
because of laws preventing them from extending
loans on other than high grade commercial paper,
proved unable to, meet with the present situation.
Many banks which have commercial paper which is
ineligible for rediscount at Federal Reserve Banks
are forced to close their doors because they are un-
able to meet the demands of their depositors when
they are called upon to do so. This results in a hur-
ried liquidation of their assets and consequently an
unnecessary loss to the depositors.

This plan of President Hoover’s calls for the estab-
lishment of a National Credit Corporation which will
have the power to issue up to $1,000,000,000 of de-
bentures; of this amount the banks expect to pur-
chase one-half. Only $500,000,000 will be issued at
present and this will be bought by the banking
group, the remainder will be issued if necessary. The
National Credit Corporation will probably be headed
by M. N. Buchner, president of the New York clear-
ing house association.

Judging by the wide approval of the bankers of
this country this plan should be of great aid in
starting the upgrade and the
confidence of the public in business. It is only through
such organized action as this that the world will be
able to pull itself out of the present depression.

business on renewing

Business is improving, the country is 100 ;per cent
solvent, with credit unlimited, and more than five
billions in gold accumulated. When the people want
better times and get ready to prove that they want
them, they can have them.—Arthur Brisbone.

(The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse or
Mr. His

comment is ‘published as expression of opinion of the

commend Srisbane’s view and conclusion.

world’s highest salaried editor.)

Moratoriums are the style this year. The president
of Brazil signed a decree for a sixty-day moratorium
last week on all foreign commercial and private pay-
ments. This was caused by the deficiency of bills
on the Brazilian market in the last few weeks to,
furnish exchange needed by importers, either in
pounds sterling, dollars, or francs.

Why shouldn't individuals be permitted to follow
in the footsteps of the nations-of the world and de-
The next time your
creditor pays you a visit, simply tell him that you

clare personal moratoriums?

have declared a moratorium and see what he says. In
case it works you can thank Hoover for originating
the idea.

All life is a racket——Mayor James J. Walker.

The prohibition question doesn’t seem to lead any-
where, if a dry investigator makes a report on the
question then he tries to make one think that it is
the greatest thing in the world and that in only a
very short time the government will succeed in en-
forcing the law. If a wet makes a report he is not
satisfied with saying that the law will never be en-
forced because it infringes on the right of man and
that it is the source of crime and gang wars, but
even goes so far as to blame the length of the pres-
ent depression upon this so-called noble experiment.
The American Legion has a plan all doped out to
relieve all the unemployment and almost go so far
as to guarantee the immediate return of prosperity.
Free cheers for the American Legion! What this
country needs is more and better proposals for re-
lieving unemployment, emphasis on the better. So
far all those submitted have not been worth one-
tenth the time spent in thinking them up, and judg-
ing from the proposals the persons sponsoring them
haven’t overworked their brains. One fellow even
had the nerve to suggest building more tourist camps
and filling stations as a sure way to bring on pros-
perity.

The most hopeful event that has happened in
America is this financial panic—Harry Carr.

(The least we can say is that this gentleman cer-
tainly has a unique idea. But something tells us that
he isn’t having to sell any cotton at five cents.)

No matter how important or big the offender, his-
tory shows that he is eventually caught.—Prohibition
Commissioner Woodcock.

Since the selection of. a title for this column (?)
the editor has been asked innumerable times what
the idea was in naming it Des Entrefilets. In order
to settle this questién for once and for all we would

like to make a conf to the readers (did we say

fish?). Des Entrefilets was the name of a famous

French newspaper which flourished in the days of
the French Revolution for a very short time, a year
to be exact, and then died because of lack of appre-
ciation from the public. Just as this revolutionary
paper died, so must this column, hence the name.

Prof. Martin Sprengling of the University of Chicago
believes that a Bedouin foreman of a mine, working tor
the Egyptians in the half-century between 1850-1800 B.
C., first used! the characters which have developed into
the modern alphabet.

At the Nationat Air Races in Cleveland this summer
Lieut. Al Williams stunted his plane as directed by the
audience through a radio hook-up. Another stunter
waltzed his plane in time with dance music broadcast
from the ground. ‘

”

+ 6

_. Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

THET AIR SHOW

Park, park, it’s dark—and we thought it would be
before we could park Jenny Lee, our rambling wreck, in
a cotton patch, and proceed to the Air Pageant. It cost
us (Bill, Dave, Joe, John and 1) twenty-five to park the
bus in the cotton patch—at least that’s one way to make
money on cotton.

The collector who said he couldn't collect anything but
dust should have been at the Air Show. If we can get
rid of half the dust we collected in the next week we'll
be lucky—and did we get our tonsils sun-burned looking
at the planes! But it was worth it all, for Tex is Rankin
first now—he’s the world champion outside loopy de
looper artist. And we have his autograph—got it less than
half an hour after he set a new world record! (So you
see we collected more than dust after all.) And after the
show was over we rubbed elbows with Wiley Post, Har-
old Gatty, Ruth Nichols, Dorothy Hester, Ken Hunter
(who not long ago stayed up 23 days in the air), Tex
Rankin, Cole, and others Humph, just ordinary
people.

Al Williams sure rose to the occasion—didn’t he?
Until he made a typical stock market crash (the
bank being unrelenting).

. Ten cent Coca Colas... Barrel
the inevitable radio an-

Greasy mechanies . .
Rolls . . . belles femmes .. .

nouncer ... dust... Davidson Students . . . tail spins

_ more Davidson Students ... more dust . . . Dorothy
Hester’s head-on double roll . . . Al Williams’ straight-
away climb... Al Williams’ crash (suit) ... Drunk

my two attempts to get to Al’s wrecked plane
. (there ought to be a law)

cop...
. another drunk cop. .
. more dust... “
Celebrities seen around the scene—Ken Hunter .. .
Harold Gatty . .'. Riley Rowell . . . Dorothy Hester
... Joe McCall ... Wiley Post ... Johnny Creech.

They had a falling out in one of the planes. (Aw
‘chute, I thought there was a catch to it.) And the way
those fellows landed—at a 14 feet per second rate...
but they landed . . . on their own. So we should worry.
They did it on their own (spinal) (ac)( cord. Which
reminds us of little Willie's definition of a spinal cord.
“A string of bones. Our head sits on one end, and we
sit on the other.” :

DO YOUR CHRISTMAS HOCKING EARLY.

And then there was the dumb aviator, who when the
photographer asked him “How about letting me take a
shot?” replied, “It’s too public here, and besides I can’t
drink while on duty.” ‘ :

Laying Aside All Jokes
As Doctor W. L. Lingle says, “A man, like a great
department store, must not only have the goods, but
must have a good DELIVERY!”
Join a literary society.

li not, then Phi on Eu!

And now our concluding number is thirteen, Most of
us have been, suffering of air fever, but for the sake
of the fellow who had too many cuts, and couldn't go,

we're going to run a little poem entitled:
AS

SEE—FEVER

I must go down to the dean again,
to the tyrant lord in his den,

And all I ask is a good line
and a drag to help me then.

But my long face, and my sob song,
and my beer suit quaking

Tells a sad tale of my weak heart
and my poor knees shaking.

I must go down to the dean again,
to take my stand on the mat,
For a note came, and a call came,
and there’s no denying that;
And all I ask is a good break
and the dean’s mood joyous,
And a good chance for a nice chat
with none to annoy us.

I must go down to the dean again,
to give him a new excuse,
To the dark room, to the black room,
to the torture rack and the noose;
And all I ask is half a chance
to spill my line of chatter
And then a date with a nice girl
to brag about the matter.

WHOA!
