'

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931

Alumni Association Will Undergo
Reorganization This Commencement

Entire Alumni Body Was Sent Pro-
posed Plan and By-Laws Some
Time Ago

SUGGESTIONS MADE

On Basis of Criticisms and Sug-
gestions Several Changes
Have Been Made

The Davidson College Alumni Association
will undergo a reorganization at the ap-
proaching commencement at Davidson, which
is the outgrowth of two years of study on
the part of alumni officials, and the result
of observations and experimentation since
the inception of the alumni office in 1926.
The present officers and Alumni ‘Council
were continued in office last commencement,
with the idea of further working out a plan
they had in view and submitting it for adop-
tion at the 1931 meeting of the Alumni As-
sociation,

A draft of the reorganization was mailed
to the entire alumni constituency some time
ago, with a request for criticisms and sug-
gestions. They were asked to vote for the
plan or reject it in general, the final form
of which would be drafted by a special com-
mittee to be appointed by the president of
the Alumni Association. The vote was over-
whelmingly in favor of the proposal, with
many suggestions and criticisms being of-
fered by the individual alumni.

With these before them, the special com-
mittee, made up of H. Smith Richardson, ’06,
of New York, president of the organization ;
Dr. R. H. Lafferty, 99, of Charlotte, vice-
president of the association, and Dr. Hamil-
ton W. McKay, '06, a former president of
the Alumni Association, met in Charlotte to
re-draft the proposal, and the by-laws which
had been submitted.

Six hours of deliberation were devoted to
the plan by this committee, with the result
that a revision of the plan will be:submitted
to the alumni for adoption at commence-
ment. It was decided, on the basis of sug-
gestions offered, that the proposed council
of approximately 200 members would be un-
wieldly, and that it was advisable to reduce
the number.

The outcome was that the Alumni Council
would be made up of a limited number of
distinguished alumni from the older body of
former students, a specified number from the
groups that had graduated within the last
ten years, and also a specific number, as out-
lined in the proposal, from the Senior class.
The older group were to be chosen on the
basis of their accomplishments and achieve-
ments in the professional and business world,
irrespective of classes, while two were to be
selected from the classes of the last ten
years, and ten from the outgoing classes.

In substance, that was the major out-
growth of the lengthy conference. Other re-
visions were tentatively written into the plan,
and when iae new council gathers together
at Davidson on Monday of commencement,
a by-laws committee, to be appointed that
day, will further devote several hours to a
final draft of the proposal and submission to
the Alumni Association.

President Richardson has written personal
letters to the first-chosen members of the
Alumni Council, enclosing a program of the
meeting to be held at Davidson, beginning
at 10 o'clock Monday morning, June 1, and
going through the early part of Tuesday
morning, if all of the work has not been
completed by the Monday night session.

The plan is to divide the council into com-
nittees, some of which will be permanent,
and some temporary. Most of the phases of
college life would, be represented by the
committees, and the returning alumni would
co-operate with the younger group of alumni,
who know the Davidson campus today, and
would discuss among themselves the prob-
lems and conditions at Davidson.

‘Tonight the outgoing Senior class is sched-
uled to select its ten Alumni Council repre-
sentatives. A smoker has been arranged for

| Alumni Deaths

Dr. RA. Brown, '92

Rev. Arthur Brown, D.D., 1892
graduate of Davidson College, died suddenly
in the lobby of Hotel Wilkes at North
Wilkesboro last Saturday, April 30. Dr.
Brown was in Wilkesboro looking after the
transfer of property belonging to the Pres-
byterian Church, and had just completed his
business when he-walked into the hotel and
collapsed. He died within a few minutes.

The deceased qvas born in 1867, and en-
tered Davidson from Greensboro, Complet-
ing his work here, he did his ministerial
preparation at Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., and served pastorates at Mt.
Airy, and at Waycross, Ga. Dr. Brown then
became connected with the home ‘mission
work in Arkansas, and later accepted the
presidency of Stillman Institute, at Tusca-
loosa, Ala.

More recently, Dr. Brown was superin
tendent of colored evangelistic work for the
Southern Presbyterian Church, with head-
quarters in Atlanta.

Rossie

Engagements

Petrea-Campbell

“Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Petrea, of Concord,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Zula, to William L. Campbell, Jr., of Salis-
bury, the wedding’ to take place in June,”
Mr. Campbell is in the class of 1924, and
after attending Davidson; he went to the
Philadelphia Textile School and Museum of
Arts. He is now connected with the Rowan
Cotton Mills at Salisbury. Miss Petrea ob-
tained her education at Greensboro College.

May-Hall

“Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. May, of Grif-
ton, announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Carolina, to Matthew Neagle Hall, of
Belmont, the wedding to take place in June.”
The newspapers carried only this announce-
ment, with no details as to the contracting
parties. Mr. Hall graduated from Davidson
in 1928, and since then has been in business
at Belmont.

Rey. T. R. Alexander, °19, of Charlotte,
who is completing his master of arts degree
at Duke University this year in the field of
economics, has been awarded a fellowship in
that department at Duke, valued between

$700 and $800.

Glenn A. Fry, '29, of Albemarle, has been
awarded a fellowship in psychology at Duke,
the value of which is $350. Mr. Fry is a
student at Duke now.

Mayor Geo. W. Coan, ’11, of Winston-
Salem, will leave soon with 36 other mayors
of America to be the guests of the French
Ggvernment and Paris. While there Mayor
Coan will lay a wreath at the tomb of the
Unknown Soldier in Paris. This wreath is
being sent by the North State Post, Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars.

John McCrummen, ’23, who has been su-
perintendent of the Vass-Lakeview Schools
for the past four years, has been re-elected
to that post for another year. Newspaper re-
ports stated that Mr. McCrummen’s regime
had been characterized by “marked success.”

Gen. W. A. Smith, 65, of Ansonville, com-
mander of the North Carolina Confederate
Veterans, was host last week to approxi-
mately 300 guests, made up of Confederate
Veterans| their relatives and friends.

Hen E. Fries, ’78, and Mrs. Fries, of
Winston-Salem, _ recently celebrated — their
golden wedding anniversary. Over a thou-
sand guests called during the evening.

the class, and most of them have been in-
terviewed personally, so that they might be
informed as to what elections were to take
place.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the visitors to the cafnpus during
the past week were E. L. Baxter Davidson,
*80, Charlotte; Rev. W. B. Knox, ’18, States-
ville; J. Eris Cassell, 19, Concord; Dr. M.
R. Doubles, ’22, Richmond, Va.; Charles
Anderson, '27, of St. Petersburg, Fla.;
George Batte, Jr., ’27, Concord; Joe H. Mc-
Connell, '27, Charlottesville, Va.; Ernest F.
Sohannon, Jr., '27, New York; Thomas M.
Alexander, '29, Concord, and W. B. Buckner,
°30, Shelbyville, Tenn.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of H. B. Brown, father Rey, H. D;
Brown, °25, of Lynchburg, Va., and W.
W. McGirt, father of Roger M. McGirt, '23,
Gibson, N. C, :

of

Dr. Robt. H, Lafferty, 99, has been elect-
ed president of the North Carolina Medical
College Alumni For many
years this medical college was operated across

Association.

from the main campus of Davidson.

Dr. C. G. Long, ’21, of Albemarle, was
made temporary clerk of Mecklenburg Pres-

bytery at its meeting in Wadesboro, and
Rev. W. Payne Brown, ’23, of Edenton, was
for the same office in Albemarle
Presbytery at its meeting in Tarboro.

chosen

Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, was re-
elected secretary of the North Carolina Bank-
ers Association, and D. I. McKeithen, 717,
of Aberdeen, was chosen as a member of
the executive committee, representing one
of the nine local groups of bankers within
the state.

Taylor If. Stukes, 13, of Manning, S. C.,
members of the Senate of South Carolina,
is being prominently mentioned for a judge-
South Carolina. His appointment
would come from the State Legislature, now
in session at Columbia, S. C.

ship in

Chas. A. Cannon, 15, of Concord, has been
appointed by Governor O, Max Gardner, of
North Carolina, as one of the seven mem-
hers of the new highway commission. The
commission will be in charge of administer-
ing the new road act, which provided that

the state take over the entire system of
county roads in North Carolina.

Major J. S. Simmons, ’11, of the Army
Medical School, Washington, D. C., has re-
cently published a 20-page article on dengue
fever. The article appeared in the March
issue of The American Journal of Tropical
Medicine, and has been reprinted in pamphlet
form and widely distributed. Major Simmons
is in the department of bacteriology of the
Army Medical School. His work shows a
competent and complete study of: this mal-
ady and its causes, and is accompanied by
several charts which Major Simmons worked
out.

J. A. Alexander, ’29, master of arts stu-
dent at Davidson, who was recently chosen
as an alternate for a fellowship in geology
at the University of North Carolina, has
been granted that fellowship, since the one
to whom it was given is going to study else-
where next year.

Tiar LITTLE STING way down in
the throat when you inhale a
cigarette is caused by parched
dry tobacco. You never feel it
when you smoke fresh, prime
Camels. The Humidor Pack
keeps Camels from drying out
or going stale. That’s why they
are always so cool and mild,
so throat-easy. Blended from
choicest Turkish and mellowest

© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Dear
Mr.. Miss or Mrs.

Try a fresh Cigarette!

if you can.

Domestic tobaccos and kept in
tip-top prime condition by an
air-tight wrapping of moisture-
proof Cellophane, Camels are
mighty hard to leave once you
have tried them. If you don’t
believe it, switch to Camels for
one whole day, then quit them,

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

CAMELS

Factory-fresh CAMELS
are air-sealed in the new
Sanitary Package which
keeps the dust and germs
out and keeps thé flavor in.

