6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

Doctor Russell Speaks
To Students at Chapel
Speaker is President of Assuit Col-
lege, Located in Heart of Fertile
Nile Valley

GUEST OF DR. LINGLE

Interviews All Students Interested
in Teaching Positions in Egypt

At the chapel service last Saturday, Dr.
C. P. Russell, president of Assuit College,
which is located in Egypt near the Nile
River, led the service. Dr. Russell has been
in Egypt for many years as head of this
institution, which has a student body enroll-
ment of approximately 600 and is training
leaders for that country. The speaker was
introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the De-
partment of History, with whom he' was
staying while here at Davidson. Dr. Lingle
and Mrs. Lingle were his guests whife they
were in Egypt two years ago.

Doctor Russell is a native of Nebraska,
and is now at home on furlough, visiting
friends and selecting additional members of
his faculty during his travels over America.
While at Davidson he interviewed a unmber
of students interested in°teaching in Egypt.

Doctor Russell, after a short devotional
period, spent several minutes telling the Da-
vidson students of the college of which he
is the head, and cited the obstacles blocking
the efforts in the work. “The system of re-
ligion and ethics in that country,” he said,
“is hostile to any kind of energy. They be-
lieve that what is to happen has already been
written; all that the individual can do is to
submit, which is the meaning of their word,
Islam.”

New Library Books

The following is a list of the new books
recently placed in the college library:

1, The Beginnings of Critical Realism in
America, by Vernon Louis Parrington.

2. The Colonial Mind, by Vernon Louis
Parrington.

3. The Etruscans, by David Randall-Mac-
Iver.

4. The Bridge Between the Testaments,
by Henry Kendall Booth.

5. Conflicts in Religious Thought, by
Georgia Harkness,

6. My Neighbor the Universe, by L. P.
Jacks.

7. How Shall I Learn to Teach Religion?
by Blanche Carrier.

8. Origin of Christian “Church Art, by
Josef Strzygowski.

9. Washington, Lincoln, Wilson, by John
McAuley Palmer.

10. The Second Twenty Years at Hull-
House, by Jane Addams.

11. Four Contemporary Novelists, by Wil-
bur L. Cross.

12. Rogues of the Bible, by James Black.

13. Swift, by Carl Van Doren.

14. The Political Ideas of the Greeks, by
John L. Myres,

15. The Day Before Yesterday, by James
Moffat.

16. A History of Spain, by .Charles E.
Chapman.

17. Men and Morals, by Woodbridge
Riley.

18. High Finance in the Sixties, edited by
Frederick C. Hicks,

19. The Canterbury Tales, translated by
Frank Ernest Hill.

20. Christian Ethics and Modern Prob-
lems, by W. R. Inge.

21, Religious Development Between Old
and New Testaments, by R. H. Charles.

22, Who Is Then This Man? by Melanie
Marnas.

23. An Introduction to Biblical Archaeol-
ogy, by George S, Duncan.

24. The Rise of the Spanish Empire, by
Roger Bigelow Merriman.

25. American Monetary and Banking Poli-
cies, by George W. Dowrie.

26. A Handbook of the Dragonflies of
North America, by James G. Needham.

27. Greek Lyric Metre, by George Thom-
son.

28. Jewish Life in Modern Times, by
Israel Cohen.

29. Categorical Imperatives of the Chris-
tion Faith, by G. Campbell Morgan.

30. Fundamental Problems of Life, by J.
S. Mackenzie. ‘

31. The Story of Religions in America,
by William Warren Sweet.

32. Communist and Co-operative Colonies,
by Charles Gide.

33. The R tic Revolution in America,
by Vernon Parrington.

34, Jesus andthe Americdn Mind, by Hal-
ford E. Neem

35. The Bible and the Ages, by Horace
M. DuBose. _ ’ :

5 : \

West Virginia Boys
Form Campus Club

A West Virginia Club has been recently
organized, its membership being composed
of the thirty-seven students who are enrolled
at Davidson from West Virginia.

The organization was completed last week
at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle, who
spend their summers at their place in Lewis-
burg, W. Va. The officers chosen are C. W.
Kuykendal, of Charleston, president; A. A.
St. Clair, of Bluefield, vice-president; E. A.
Hancock, of Bluefield, secretary, and J. T.
McClung, of Bluefield, treasurer.

To influence more West Virginia boys to
come to Davidson and develop a closer rela-
tionship among those already here is the
club’s object. In 1923-24, only nine students
were attending Davidson from West Vir-
ginia, and it came ninth in state representa-
tion. This scholastic year of 1930-31 shows
an increase of 400 per cent, since the number
is now 37.

Today West Virginia ranks fifth in state
representation at Davidson, and if the pres-
ent rate of increase continues, it will have
a larger representation than either Georgia
or Virginia, who are just ahead of her. Both
the latter have 38 students matriculated.

NEW ADDRESSES

(Continued from page 4)
W. B. Mattison, '26, Chamber of Com-
merce Bldg., Greenville, S. C.

P. W. Walton, ’28, 841 Glendale Terrace,
N. E., Atlanta, Ga.

J. F. Pinkney, ’27, Belmont Apts., No. 416,
1050 Sherman St., Denver, Colo.

M. J..McLean, '07, 200 Phoenix Bldg.,
Birmingham, Ala.

Rev. W. H. Harrell, ’20, 200 Phoenix
Bldg., Birmingham, Ala.

W. W. McCorkle, '21, 1227 N. 27th St.,
Birmingham, Ala.

N. O. Jones, ’26 1801 15th Ave., S., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

J. D. McNeill, ’91, 2032 Fourth Ave., N,,
Birmingham, Ala.

Vardell Williamson, '27, Virginian Apts.,
Greenville, S. C.

W. C. Kirkland, '30, 640 Sycamore St.
Decatur, Ga.

J. N. Bragaw, '29, 204 Forrest Ave., Ma-
rietta, Ga.

L. D. Gaston, '27, care Y. M. C. A. Bldg,,
Birmingham, Ala,

36. The Founding of the Western Civil-
ization, by George C. Sellery and A. C.
Krey. ai

37. The Tragic Sense of Life, by Miguel
De Unamuno.

38. Earth and Man, edited by George A.
Baitsell.

39.° Psychophysiology, by Leonard T. Tro-
land.

40. Five Types of Ethical Theory, by C.
D. Broad.

41. The Master of Destiny, by Frederick
Tilney,

42. Humanism and America, edited by
Norman Foerster.

43. The United States and the Caribbean,
by Chester Lloyd Jones, Henry Kittredge
Norton, and Parker Thomas Moon.

44. The Theology of Crisis, by H. Emil
Brunner.

45. Determination of Orbits of Comets
and Asteroids, by Russell Trafy Crawford.

46.. The Naval Blockade, by Louis Gui-
chard.

47. The Great Crusade and After, by
Preston William Slosson,

Seniors Place Approval
On Vocational Guidance

Interesting Statistics Result of
Recent Questionnaire Sub-
mitted to Senior (lass

In a questionnaire which was recently
given to the Senior class at Davidson, many
interesting and illuminating points were

brought out on the attitude of students to-
ward vocational guidance. To the first ques-
tion, “Are you in favor of vocational guid-
ance?” 51 answered in the affirmative; 12
in the negative, and there was no answer
from four. Also 33 believed that it was of
some benefit, 28 considered it to be of no
help, and there was no answer from four.
The third question, “Would you favor speak-
ers or articles for it?’ was answered with
49 in favor of speakers, four in favor of ar-
ticles, 11 in favor of neither, and there was
no answer from five. Twenty-two were in
favor of compulsory attendance at such
speeches in chapel; 36 believed in optional
Speakers at night; there was no answer from
five, and those favoring neither speakers nor
articles were four.

To the question, “Can it be of value?”
there were 53 answers in the affirmative;
nine in the negative, and there was no answer
from four. Finally, “Has it been of value at
Davidson in the past?’ was answered with
39 believing that it has; 13 believing that it
has not; eight doubtful, and no answer from
four.

There were several other very interesting
things brought out in the questionnaire.
Fifty-three believed the new cut system to
be better than the old; nine that believed
the opposite, and four were uncertain. The
question, “Do you understand the new cut
system?” was answered with 38 saying yes,
and 30 saying no.

Finally, the Seniors checked the following
things as being activities in which Davidson
is reasonably represented: Football, ‘68;
basketball, 65; baseball, 49; track, 63; an-

nual, 64; newspaper, 59; magazine, 26;
wrestling, 47, and tennis, 57.
Sweet Briar Tries
New Research Study
Research Work to be Carried on

After Two Years of Study

Sweet Briar, Va.—(IP)—Something new
in “majors” is being tried for the second
successive year at Sweet Briar College—a
system of research courses in which gen-
eral fields are laid out, including several
courses on the curriculum.

The first of these problems to be offered
last year was “American Problems,” and
with the co-operation of the social science
departments a two-year program was ar-
ranged, open to students in their Junior
year. Required subjects were history, eco-
nomics, political science and sociology, and
contributory courses were chosen with a
view to preventing excessive concentration.
The student taking this major is required
to write a paper at the end of the two years
based on creative research.

This year a second major is. offered hav-
ing as its general subject the period from
1750 to 1850, in which the individualism of
the romantic movement culminated in the
French revolution. This major is entitled
“Romanticism and Revolution.” Basic
courses include history, economics, political
science, sociology, English, German, French,
philosophy and art, and additional auxiliary

courses are art, music, Biblical literature,

AAMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson Theatre

“ROYAL

Ww
FOLLOW

Monday and Tuesday, February 9 and 10

FAMILY”

with
INA CLAIRE AND FREDRIC MARCH
ednesday, 11th

THE LEADER”

ED WYNN
Thursday, 12th

“MAN WHO CAME BACK”
JANET GAYNOR AND CHARLES FARRELL
Friday, 13th
“NO LIMIT”
“WIDOW FROM CHICAGO”
ALICE WHITE

INTERCOLLEGIATE NEWS

London (IP)—Partial confirmation of the
Book of Daniel in the Bible is seen by Sir
Charles Marston, British archeologist, in the
recent Ur discoveries near Babylon of an
expedition financed by ¢the University of
Pennsylvania and the British Museum.

Sir Charles, a well known industrialist and
student of archeology, cited the discovery
of the palace of the Princess Relshanti-Nan-
nar, whom he believes to have been a sister
of Belshazzar.

“Archeology proves that the sack of Jeru-
salem actually happened,” he said, “and it
is quite feasible that Daniel may have seen
this place.” According to Sir Charles, tab-
lets of 600 B. C. confirmed the story of Bel-
shazzar as told in the Book of Daniel.

Stanford University, Calif—(IP)—Bas-
ketball fans at the Leland Stanford Uni-
versity no longer will have to wonder, when
the score is tied in the last few moments of
play, how many seconds are left.

Always keen for innovations, the univer-
sity has installed an electric clock in its
basketball pavilion.

Alfred R. Masters, general manager of the
Board of Athletic Control, has had the time-
piece installed on the scoreboard. The clock
is equipped with minute and second hands.

Tuscon, Ariz—(IP)—The University of
Arizona polo team is making preparation
for a tour of the East which, according to
present plans, will have them playing East-
ern trios from May 12 to June 15.

It will be the second time that the Wild-
cats have made a trip East, the last time
being in 1924 when they were beaten at
Princeton.

The Arizona aggregation is made up of

“four stars who have been playing together

since they first broke into fast polo. They
are .Lewis Brown, Harry Wilson, L. E.
Smith and Captain William Dritt.

Captain Gene R. Mauger, a well known
polo player, is the coach, and the team is
backed by the University of Arizona Polo

DR. J. H. HENDERLITE
(Continued from page 1)
and again in the history of"our own nation.

Upwardly, or in relationship to God, Aris-
tarchus was again found faithful. “God could
count on him,” “In the sovereignty of God
there is always a place left for our sover-
eignty,” continued Dr. Henderlite. There is
no such thing as “choosing a vocation—you
hear a vocation.” Thus it is that God looks
to us mainly for fidelity to the life work
He has chosen for us. He depends on our
faithfulness. Paul said, “It is, required of
stewards that they be faithful,” and his com-
panion was thus qualified as a Christian
steward.

From this, we get something of the truth-
fulness of Aristarchus’ life. Fidelity was the
keynote of his personality. He and Paul
were “companions in life and by death were
not parted.”

Dr. Henderlite was introduced by Mr.
Jackson and during the service an appro-
priate and very beautiful violin duet was
rendered by Robert Orr and Horace Erwin.

Latin and Greek.

The new major courses are being made
possible by laying stress on interdepart-
mental correlation of courses.

The work is done under careful guidance
and is designed to enable the student in her
Senior year to undertake the handling of
some individual problem.

Association, with Lieut. Col. H. C. Tatum at
its head. Colonel Tatum is also president of
the Southwestern Polo Association.

Washington—(IP)—Explaining that their
action was merely a “prank,” two midship-
men dismissed from the naval academy at
Annapolis a year ago for taking two girls
into the mess hall garbed as naval academy
students, have made application for reinstate-
ment.

The two, M. S. Burgin, of Jacksonville,
Fla., and L. L. Myatt, of Wollaston, Mass.,
have appeared before a senate sub-committee.
Senator Walsh, Massachusetts, has intro-
duced a resolution to provide for their rein-
statement with loss of one year’s time.

SENIORS GIVE VIEWS
(Continued from page 1)
4; Morley, 2; Carlyle, 2; Dorothy Dix, 2;
Addison, 2; Will Rogers, Chesterton, and
Arnold, 1.

The vote for the most popular book was
as follows: Les Miserables, 4; Three Mus-
keteers, 2; Five Great Philosophies of Life,
2; Count of Monte Cristo, 3; Ivanhoe, 2;
and The Scarlet Letter, 2. Votes were cast
for 14 others.

The votes for the most popular poem were
more scattered than for any other. They
were as follows: The Raven, 7; Crossing
the Bar, 6; Ancient Mariner, 4; Annabel
Lee, 2; Grey’s Elegy, 2; If, 2; Thanatopsis,

Plays by Shakespeare completely held
sway as the most popular: Hamlet, 8; Mer-
chant of Venice, 6; Macbeth, 6; Romeo and
Juliet, 3; Cyrano de Bergerac, 2; Strange
Interlude, 2; and Pelleas and Melisande, 2.
There were ten others which received votes.
2; and Psalm of Life, 2. There were votes
cast for 22 others.

To a question endeavoring to find which
magazines were read the most, the following
results were gotten: The Saturday Evening
Post, 39; College Humor, 39; Life or Judge,
34; Literary Digest, 31; Collier’s, 30; The
American Magazine, 28; The Cosmopolitan,
26; Liberty, 25; Time, 23; The Atlantic
Monthly, 11; The Review of Reviews, 9;
National Geographic, 5; Harper’s, 3; Forum,
3; Golden Book, 3; Reader’s Digest, 2;
Pathfinder, 2; and The Yowl, 2. Ten others
were also named.

Time was the favorite magazine with ten
votes; Saturday Evening Post, 9; American,
9; Colliers, 5; Cosmopolitan, 5; College Hu-
mor, 3; Golden Book, 2; Reader's Digest,
2; Atlantic Monthly, 2; Literary Digest, 2;
College Life, 2. Six others were named also.

Finally the questionnaire endeavored to
find the favorite newspaper. The following
were the results: New York Times, 17;
Charlotte Observer, 16; Atlanta Journal, 5;
Greensboro Daily News, 5; Birmingham
News, 2; Raleigh News and Observer, 2,
and Charlotte News, 2. The names of eight
others were also given votes.

O¢ ‘omplete Service
for School Publications

Yanuals
Maneazines

Catatous
Jie u Books
nf thy Priting Co.

Chicvlotte td?

Que

N

STATIONERY -

Carolina, West Virginia,

STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS

NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON

UNION THEOLOGICAL

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned b

MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

SEMINARY

y the Synods of Virginia, North

Appalachia HAS
A Distinguished Faculty
Nineteen Buildings, on a
Fifty Acre Campus
i Moderate Endowment, and
any Scholarships
For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr.,

D.D., President

