THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

DAVIDSON
CHARLOTTE “Y”
TONIGHT

-THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON
VS.
GUILFORD
SATURDAY

Davidson Beats Elon

And Lenoir Quintets

Mathis and Rusk Are High-Point
Men Against Elon, With Martin
Leading Against Lenoir

FIFTH AND SIXTH WINS

Wildcats Win Both Games by Com-
fortable Margins

The Davidson Wildcat basketeers added
their fifth and sixth intercollegiate wins last
week at the expense of two “Little Six”
teams, Elon and Lenoir-Rhyne. This does
not affect the standing of Davidson in the
state race, but does give them a clean slate
so far in wins.

Playing erratic and somewhat spurty ball,
Davidson downed Elon on the home floor,
39 to 30. Led by Mathis and Rusk, who
scored 15 and 10 points, respectively, the
Red and Black five seemed to have the sit-
uation well in hand, although the score didn’t
show it at times. The Wildcats started off
rapidly and were leading Elon 15 to 6 when
the Christians staged a rally that sent them
within one point of the home team for a
half-time score of Davidson 15, Elon 14.
For a moment at the beginning of the sec-
ond period Elon was leading due to a two-
pointer of Captain Rollins, but this lead was
short-lived, for Proctor retaliated for the
Wildcats to again put them in the lead.
From then on it was a game of spurts.
Davidson would make five or six points and
then Elon would almost catch them. How-
ever, towards the end of the game, the Wild-
cats pulled well out into the front to give
them a 39 to 30 win.

Two nights later the Wildcat five gar-
nered a lop-sided victory at the expense of
Lenoir-Rhyne, winning 46 to 19. The whole
Davidson team found little trouble in hit-
ting the basket with Grier Martin heading
the fist with 16 points. With both coaches
using many substitutes, the game developed
into a comedy rather than a contest, the
overwhelming lead of the Red and Black
five being so great. At the beginning of the
second period the visitors made their only
stand, holding the Wildcats scoreless for six
minutes. But when Goodson finally cut the
ice by sinking a neat floor shot, his mates
rallied ’round and started dropping them in
from all angles of the floor.

New Games Added

Two more home games have been
added to the card of the Davidson
Wildcats, according to W. R. Han-
cock, manager of varsity basketball.
The Powerful Charlotte Y. M. C.
A. quint will be met tonight at 7:30.
The other new game is a Big Five
contest, the ‘Wildcats meeting Wake
Forest here on February 25. This
will likely be the last game of the
season for Davidson.

At the same time it was an-
nounced that the second Duke game
will likely be played in Charlotte.
The contest is scheduled for Febru-
ary 17. Students will be admitted
free to the game, the same arrange-
ments prevailing as were used for
the Carolina game.

Wildcat Five Will Meet
Charlotte ‘Y’ Thursday
And Guilford Saturday

Fund for Sweaters to be Taken up
at Charlotte “Y” Game Tonight

LINKMEN ARE STRONG

Wildcats Seek Revenge for Defeat
of Last Year .

Tonight the Wildcats clash with the Char-
lotte “Y’ Linkmen on the home floor and
then meet Guilford College here Saturday
night, closing what is perhaps one of the
hardest weeks the ’Cats have gone through
yet. These two games compose the whole
list of basketball activities until the next
printing of The Davidsonian, and much in-
terest is expected to be displayed by the
student body in the game tonight, since the
“Y” quintet routed the Wildcats once Jast
year and are placing a strong five on the
floor.

As has been the custom at Davidson, some
one game is picked to which the students
give voluntarily twenty-five cents for entry.
This, fund is turned over to the Athletic
Association for buying the basketball Ictter-
men sweaters. The Charlotte “Y” game to-
night has been chosen for the purpose.

If Davidson keeps her slate clean until
this game, which is possible, she will meet
a thorough test tonight, for the Linkmen
have a smooth working outfit and have

eon iL f G. Fg. Tp. bowled over good opposition this winter.
i I ee ee 2 3 The Wildcats have a smart team, but they
Jackson, f -------------------- 5 1 will be up against real smart basketball as
Hal lian cg aeRO : i played by the men who have grown up in
ED) (Corea ee : the game.

Fa ge Rede ga md 3 : :
Jone 1s . s The Charlotte “Y” quintet went up against
Hughes\cg7 22285 S222 ee 0 0 iz ee

— _. __| fast opposition last week and were downed
by the Atlanta Athletic Club, but only after

tales ees oe 11 8 30
ce. G. Fg. Tp.|? hard fight. The Atlantans stepped out to
Peabody, f 0 0 0 a 14-2 lead in the first few minutes, but the
Rusk ees 4 2 10 hard-fighting Carolinians staged a desperate
Mathis f ea ea 7 1 15 rally and the first half ended 17-14 in favor
Vii ar 1 2. 4}0f the visitors. In the second half the “Y”
Barnard ee es ee 0 0 0 found themselves and surged into the lead,
Gécdesn. re See 1 1 3 but did not hold it long. The game ended
Prost <2s8 17) 8731 for the Adantans

— — | The “Y” quintet is looking to the David-
TOtals secees weer ese 16 7 39]son game as one of the hardest they will
ae play this year and are pepping up for that
Lenoir-Rhyne G. Fg. Tp.| game. Davidson is leading the Big Five at
Wittlengte eee See es 0 1 1| this writing, and the Linkmen are the
Hs Rroutmanj sf: 2285s 1 0 2
rwith teseoe cn aeee saan as enae 3 0). 26\\pReabody; f #25220 s2 0 seco. ee 1 234
B. Troutman, f ~---------.____ 0 1 VPMathisn foo ce oe oe oe 4 1 9
KiserhC sec sso cet ee eee Bre Oe aieMartinn Ci ey ee Be, 8 0 16
Rhyne) cc; cases csc Sse ees Ore 22) 2iGoodson; go -25 2 socks ee ess Rhee bean27/
TE@MON; Bio ocn— en ena oe 1 OFF ZleRroctor, @. 2222s eee week (al 1
EO) (Fa O 20) 0)l(Bernard,g:-2-22-2---2-- 8 2=- 10.42
Overcash)s gi 23225 soe bees 0 1 1 - -—- —
= i | ei otals: oo. eee oo oe 20 6 46
Potals)s 28s oes 7 5 19} Non-scoring substitutes—Lenoir-Rhyne :
Davidson G. Fg. Tp.| Biggerstaff. Davidson: Wilson, Brown. Ref-
USM eds ee tae Se 3 1 7\eree: Berry (Wofford).
a} |
“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.
*
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Wildcat Wrestlers
Defeat N. C. State

Davidson Wrestlers Win Five of
Eight Matches—Score 17 to 13

Davidson’s Wildcat wrestling team won
its initial match of the season here Satur-
day by taking the N. C. State mat artists
into camp, 17 to 13. The Davidson grapplers
won five of the eight matches to take the
decision.

Davidson scored nine points in the first
three weights, when Vick, Gorham and Pres-
ton gained decisions over Karig, Bazemore
and Evans, respectively, with time advan-
tages. Oakley gave State three points when
he gained a time decision over Tyack in the
145-pound class, but the Davidson victory
was cinched when the next two Wildcat
grapplers won their matches, Taylor pinning
Jones and Captain Conway gaining a time
advantage over Sutten. State won in the
175-pound and unlimited classes when Laney
and Gurneau made short work of their op-
ponents by pinning McFayden and Boyle,
respectively.

Davidson had four time decisions and a
fall to State’s single time decision and two

falls.

Results :

115-pound—Vick (Davidson) won over
Karig (State) with time advantage of 5
minutes, 53 seconds.

125-pound—Gorham (Davidson) won over
Bazemore (State) with time advantage of
5 minutes, 56 seconds.

135-pound—Preston (Davidson) won over
Evans (State) with time advantage of 4
minutes, 4 seconds.

145-pound—Oakley (State) won over
Tyack (Davidson) with time advantage of
2 minutes, 49 seconds.

155-poundJTaylor (Davidson) pinned
Jones (State) with double wrist lock in 5
minutes, 37 seconds

165-pound—Captain Conway (Davidson)
won over Sutten (State) with time advan-
tage of 3 minutes, 15 seconds.

175-pound—Laney (State) pinned McFay-
den (Davidson) with leg scissors and double
arm lock in 2 minutes, 11 seconds.

Unlimited—Gurneau (State) pinned Boyle
(Davidson) with head lock in 2 minutes, 32
seconds,

Referee—Bailey (Duke).

No healthy boy would say that he did
not want to grow up. If he did, I should
advise taking him to a psychoanalyst.—Prof.
A. E. Heath.

strongest “Y’ team in this section. That
means there will be a game in Davidson to-
night which ought to be numbered among
the more thrilling.

The ’Cats have just returned from a stren-
uous battle with Duke and with a day of
rest ought to be primed again to meét.a
first-class opponent.

Saturday night the ’Cats will again go
into action, this time against one of the
“Little Six” aggregations which have so
far been unmercifully treated by the ’Cats.
First Davidson ’Cats had a little trouble in
downing the Elon quintet, but fast week
swamped a Lenoir-Rhyne five. The Guil-
ford contest promises to be closer and the
Davidson aggregation may be extended to
win.

Not much is known about Guilford, but
it is rumored that they have an imposing
looking number of basketeers.

LOOKING

"EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews a

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Thursday, February 5
Basketball—Varsity vs. Charlotte Y at
Davidson. :
Wrestling—Varsity vs. W. & L. at Lex-
ington, Va.
Basketball—Freshmeen vs. Greensboro
High at Davidson.
Saturday, February 7
Basketball—Varsity vs. Guilford at Da-
vidson.
Fresh vs. Barium Springs at Barium
Springs.
Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. M. I. at Lex-
ington, Va.
Tuesday, February 10
Freshmen vs. P. J. C. at Davidson

The next week presents plenty of events
for Davidson's teams. Seven
events for Davidson's various teams. Sev-
en events in five days bring all four of
the winter sports squads into action. In
fact, all during February nearly every
night will find some Davidson team in
action somewhere, However, a sharp let-
up in March follows, with very few events
on the boards that will attract the custo-
mers, March is the dullest month of the
year, judged from the standpoint of the
number of attractions.

various

Regardless of the outcome of Tuesday's
game at Duke—the game had not been
played when this wen to press—the most
important game of the season from David-
son’s standpoint will be the second contest
with Duke, to be played February 17. If
the Wildcats win both of their road games
with State and Carolina which will be
played next week, a victory against Duke
at that time will almost cinch the pennant
for Davidson, no matter what was the
outcome of the first meeting with the
Blue Devils.

If Davidson splits their pair on the road
it will be necessary to defeat Duke to re-
main in the chase for the pennant. There
are several other possibilities, but they all
boil down to this—It will be necessary for
the Wildcats to win their second Blue
Devil encounter to cop the Big Five
title.

Unfortunately, the game will probably
be played on one of the Charlotte courts.
Although it was contrary to what Capt.
Pritchett wanted t odo, conditions were
such that the game had to be played in
Charlotte, although it was wanted to bring
it out here on the local court. Duke, of
course, wanted the game to be played in

That Wildcat Offense
Field Foul Total

Players Goals Goals Points
Rusk; f 2-5-:-- 22 10 54
Martin, c f .-- 22 6 50
Goodson, g .-- 22 Sar 49
Mathis, f _-.-- 20 5 45
Proctor, g ---- 4 4 12
Pierce, c _--.-- 4 3 11
Peabody, f .-. 3 3 9
Bernard, g .-- 1 0 2
Manson, f -..- 1 0 2
Enochs, g ---- 1 0 2
MNotals =... 100 36 236

ff )
CLOTHING

Shoes, $5.00.
JOHN WARD

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206

Complete Outfitting in Tuxedo
Apparel. Rental Tuxedos. Tux.

FURNISHINGS

FRIENDLY FIVE

Charlotte, due to the much larger gate
the game will draw there. Too, a number
of Davidson alumni had written urging
that the game be taken to Charlotte,
where it would be possible for more of
them to see the game. All these points
had to be taken into consideration in de-
termining the final location of the fracas,
and it was only after a great deal of dis-
cussion and thought that it was finally de-
cided to play the game in Charlotte, Capt.
Pritchett stated that he regretted a great
deal the necessity of doing so, knowing
that a number of students would be un-
able to attend.

But he also said that all students would
be admitted free, as at the Carolina game,
and that under no circumstances would
any more of Davidson's big games be
taken to Chatlotte. Wake Forest had
wanted their game also to be played in
the Queen City, but was vetoed by the
Davidson authorities. It is scheduled here
for the latter part of February, after the
South Carolina trip, and will likely close
the season. The game has only been added
within the last week or ten days.

Sam Gurneau, State’s big Indian ath-
lete, is one of the best all-round athletes
in the state. He stands a good chance of
lettering in four or five sports as a sopho-
more, and would run it to six, we under-
stand, except for the fact that no letter
is offered at the Raleigh institution in
boxing. Coming to facts, Gurneau played
basketball for State last Thursday night.

On Friday he boxed Ymathe unlimited di-
vision against Kid Brewe ef los-
ing the match on points. Antto fidish up
his week-end, he wrestled here Saturday
night, winning his match in the unlimited
lclass. He letters in fodtball, with likely
get his monogram in basketball and wrest-
ling, and for his spring sports divides
time between trac kand baseball.

Coach Doc Ungér placed a well-coached
wrestling team on the mat last Saturday
night, and his boys made their mentor's
debut in that field an auspicious one by
winning from the N. C. State team
Strength in the lighter weights enabled
Davidson to pile up a lead that losses in
the heavier divisions could not wipe out.

He takes them against two of the best
grappling aggregations of the South this
week-end, when the Davidson mat men
tackle W. & L. tonight and V. M. TI. Sat-
urday night, both matches to be in Lex-
ington, Va. The Washington and Lee
Generals have a decisive victory to their
credit over the Army squad—34 to 0 was
the scores-and they later added the scalp
of N. C. State by a comfortable margin.
The boys from the greyhound halls of
V. M. I. also have a good squad. The duet
of matches are the hardest which the Da-
vidson team will face this year, in all like-
lihood. Much the same lineup will be used
as that which wrestled Saturday here.

ORDINARY GALES

Property
owners
realize that
Windstorm
Insurance
not only
indemnifies
NA against cy-
; clones and
tornadoes which destroy every-
thing in their paths; but also
against ordinary gales which un-
roof houses and blow down chim-
neys. Branches from trees or
moveable property break windows
and jab holes in roofs and walls,
too. =

In proportion, the little losses
cost just as much as the big ones.
Windstorm Insurance indemnifies
for both kind of losses—for little
money.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson ('13), Manager

M. B. Speir (°26)
