THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931 F

ALUMNI DEATHS

T. C. Hyman, ’93

Thomas Gardner Hyman, member of the
class of 1893, and on: the Board of Trustees
of Davidson, died at Miami, Fla., February
7. A sudden heart attack was the cause of
his death. Mr. Hyman, whose home was at
New Bern, was visiting in Florida. He had
been ill for the past several years, but re-
cently had shown great improvement.

The deceased was born April 8, 1869. He
was a native of Greensboro, but after leay-
ing Davidson he went to New Bern, where
he entered business and was at one time
head of the Hyman Supply Company. He
was prominent in the business, civic and so-
cial life of New Bern. He was an officer
in the New Bern Presbyterian Church, had
been, a member of the board of aldermen
and president of the Chamber of Commerce,
and held many other offices in other local
organizations. Mr, Hyman was an Elk, Ma-
son, and Shriner, and a member of several
other fraternal organizations.

Mr. Hyman had been a prominent mem-
ber of Davidson’s Board of Trustees for
several years from Albemarle Presbytery.
His death will be a shock to his associates
on the board.

Dr. J. G. Marshall, ’99

News has recently been received in David-
son of the death of Dr. Jesse Gwynn Mar-
shall, 1899 graduate of the North Carolina
Medical College. Dr. Marshall died at his
home at Canton, Okla., on December 24,
1930, three days after he suffered an apo-
plectic stroke.

Dr. Marshall was born. July 15, 1875.
Prior to entering the Medical College here
he attended the Medical College at Rich-
mond, Va. He could easily be classified as

one of the pioneers of the mid-west, for he
immediately went to Oklahoma where he
practiced in what was then? known as the
Territory of Oklahoma. When Oklahoma
was admitted into the Union, he was licensed
to practice in that state.

The deceased was appointed a captain in
the medical section of the Officers Reserve
Corps of the United States Army on August

18, 1917, and saw special service during the

influenza epidemic when he was called into
service at Seminole, Okla. In September,
1919, he was called to the Indian Service
at Zuni, where he served for over six years.

Dr. I. J. Campbell, ’06

Dr. Isaac Johnson Campbell, member of
the 1906 class of the North Carolina Medical
College, died suddenly at his home in Clover,
S. C., on February 7. Dr. Campbell had
spent the week in Columbia, S. C., where
he was.a member of the State Senate, but
returned to his home in Clover, and was seen
on the streets only a few hours before his
death.

After attending the Medical College here,
Dr. Campbell went to Louisville, Ky., where
he obtained his medical degree. He started
practicing in Clover immediately, but retired
from active participation in that field two
years ago because of failing health. He had
served two terms in South Carolina’s House
of Representatives, being elected for the
first time in 1924. In 1928 he was elected to
the State Senate, which term would have
expired in 4932. Before entering. state poli-
tics, he was mayor of Clover several times.

In addition to many other prominent roles,
he was vice-president of the First National’
Bank of. Clover.

Three Alumni Chapter
Meetings Are Planned
Within the Next Month

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Will Be in
Washington, and Dr. C. R.
Harding in New York and

Baltimore

Three local alumni chapter meetings are
planned within the next month. These are to
be held in Washington, D. C., New York,
and Baltimore. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, presi-
dent of Davidson, will be the speaker at
Washington, and Dr, C. R. Harding, senior
professor at Davidson, will be-the guest of
the New York and Baltimore chapters.

Following out the plan of economy out-
lined by the Alumni Council, the annual
continuous spring tour to seven or eight
cities in the East will not be made this year,
though the presence of Davidson adminis-
trative officers at various points up north will
probably enable the alumni office to have
most of the meetings anyway.

The date for the Washington conclave has
been tentatively set for February 26. J. A.
Thomas, ’18, secretary of the chapter, re-
cently wrote that a meeting was desired be-
fore the adjournment of Congress, so that
Davidson’s three Congressmen and one hon-
orary member of the Senate could be in at-
tendance. Dr. Lingle is to be in Washington
for a meeting the latter part of this month,
and the date of February 26 was suggested,
though confirmation has not been received
yet.

Dr. C. R. Harding has been invited to
speak to the New’ York alumni, which is
next to the largest group of Davidson men
at. any one point. That meeting will be on
March 18. Dr. Harding has consented to
stop at Baltimore en route to Davidson, and
will be a guest of that chaper on March 19.
Officers of the Baltimore group have been
written suggesting this date.

Other -Davidson officials may be in the
East this spring, and if so, they will be
utilized wherever possible to attend other
chapter meetings. %

According to the alumni secretary, it seems
likely at this date that the association will

meen

be entirely out of debt when the report is
made for the fiscal year which ends in May,
while a trip such as is usually made costs
slightly over $100.00. The Council and others
connected with the alumni organization are
anxious to make this report, and thus are
pursuing the policy outlified above.

Pasadena, Calif.—(IP)—A small group of
professors and research students gathered at
the Norman Bridge Laboratory: of Physics
at the California Institute of Technology
here last week and heard Prof. Albert Ein-
stein, leading physical philosopher of the
world, announce his latest contribution to
the world’s store of knowledge.

The German scientist presented the group
with his new “unified fields” theory, in
which he believes he has reduced and ex-
plained all major natural laws in one mathe-
matical equation.

Although: the scientist urged extreme cau-
tion in its application until further study has
been made, those present agreed unanimously
that the new theory appears to offer a single
solution to the mysteries of light, gravitation
and electro-magnetic phenomena.

The importance of the new theory seems
to lie in the fact that it expresses in a single
equation all known laws governing behavior
of light, gravity and electricity.

When a thief attempted to hold up John
Shepard, Springfield, Mo., hot tamale sales-
man, Shepard rubbed some of his wares in
the gunman’s eyes, whereupon the bandit
screamed and made tracks.

Y Complete Service
forSchool Publications

)

Queen Cily Pent

Coheed

Four Scholarships Won
By Alumni of Davidson

J. M. Appleby, ’26; V. S. Broyles,
27, H. G. Goodykoontz, ’27, and
Chas. F. McRae, ’27, Given
Awards

Union Theological Seminary annually of-
fers five fellowships to its Seniors who are
completing their three-year course, and an
announcement from the office of President
Ben R. Lacy, ’06, at Richmond, Va., shows
that four of these five fellowships were
awarded alumni of Davidson College for
next year.

James M. Appleby, ’26, was awarded the
Salem Fellowship; Vernon S. Broyles, '27,
the Charles D. Larus Fellowship;, H. G.
Goodykoontz, ’27, the Moses D. Hoge Fel-
lowship, and Chas. F. McRae, ’27, the Thom-
as Cary Johnson Fellowship.

The fellowships awarded to Messrs, Ap-
pleby and McRae carry with them the pro-
vision that the student can either continue
his study at the Seminary, at some other
approved institution in this country, or
abroad. Those given Messrs. Broyles and
Goodykoontz specify that study is to be con-
tinued .at Union Seminary.

Alumni Marriages

Price-Haynsworth
“Mr. and Mrs, Thomas Baker Haynsworth
announce the marriage of their daughter,
Clara, to Dr. Julian P. Price, on Saturday,
February 7, Florence, S. C.”

The above announcement was received in
the alumni office a few days ago. Dr. Price
graduated from Davidson in the class of
1922, and returned for his master of arts
degree. After leaving Davidson he went to
the Johns Hopkins Medical School. Gradu-
ating from there and completing his interne-
ship, he located in Florence, S. C. Recently
he was made state secretary of the South
Carolina Pediatric Society. Dr. and Mrs.
Price are at home in Florence.

Adams-Boyd z

William Speight Adams, Jr., of Swan-
nanoa, N. C., 1926 graduate of Davidson,
and Miss Lucy Brant Boyd, of Charlotte,
were married in Charlotte Thursday night,
February 12, Fletcher R. Adams, ’29, of
Charlotte, was best man at his brother’s
wedding.

Since his graduation from Davidson, Mr.
Adams has been doing chemical work, and
is now a chemist with the Beacon Manufac-
turing Company at Swannanoa. Mrs, Adams
was graduated from the Ashley Hall School
at Charleston, S. C., last June. Mr. and Mrs.
Adams are now at home at Swannanoa.

Judge James E. Boyd, ’66, of Greensboro,
last week celebrated his 86th birthday.

STOP ---- 60

a=

= ~
—
A

No traffic
czar can
regulate the
progress of
a Wind-
storm or
Tornado. It
blows and
goes when
and where it pleases, Each year
cities, towns, and communities
which “never had one” are feel-
ing the destructive Force of
Windstorms.

Stop being penny-wise, pound-
foolish. Z

Go get Windstorm and Tornado
Insurance. a

Our rates are so low it’s not
worth the risk to be without this
protection on your home, place of
business, garage and car..

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson (19), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the alumni visitors to Davidson
during the past’ week were C. L. Black, ’04,
Greensboro; Hinton McLeod, ’07, Brevard;
Carl H. Long, ’20, Winston-Salem; Don J.
Chipman, ’24, Winston-Salem; R. V. Liles,
25, Lilesville;qJulian Lake, ’27, Richmond,
Va.; R. O. Flinn, Jr., '29, Richmond, Va.;
Archie M. Calhoun,,’30, Laurinburg; John
B. Christenbury, ’30, Crossnore, and Ernest
H. McCall, ’30, Salisbury.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, of Char-
lotte, read a paper this week before the
Tri-State Medical Association meeting at
Richmond, Va.

William P. Greene, Jr., ’29, has been elect-
ed clerk of the South Carolina Senate Judi-
ciary Committee. He is completing his sec-
ond year law course at the University of
South Carolina, Columbia.

R. W. Oeland, ’25, who is with the Anchor
Cap Company, has been transferred from
New York to Louisvile, Ky. He is at 1336
Starks Bldg.,Louisville.

Dr. W. Z. Bradford, '24, of Charlotte, has
been temporarily appointed physician for the
city schools of Charlotte.

Rev. J. Lee McLean, ’24, formerly pastor
at Fairmont, N. C., has accepted a field at
Capon Bridge, W. Va.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of A. M. Faggart, father of Press M. Fag-
gart, ’26, of Concord.

J. A. Cannon, ’04, of Concord, has been
endorsed by that city’s Rotary Club for the
office of governor of the 58th District of
Rotary International.

G. T. Preer, ’29, who was studying at
Brown University, Providence, R. I., has
gone to Harvard University for his second
semester. He is doing graduate work in
philosophy.

Rev. J. E. Cousar, ’14, formerly of St.
Albans, W. Va., is now pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Covington, Va.

Dr. J. M. C. Covington, ’25, has been
transferred from the Naval Dispensary at
Portsmouth, Va., to the U. p: 5. Andres: He
can be reached on that ship, U. S. Navy,
care Postmaster, New York City.

R. H. McMillan, ’24, has been transferred
by the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing
Company to Atlanta, and is residing at his
home, 8 Peachtree Way.

W. S. Royster, 99, of Norfolk, Va.; Dr.
C. R. Wilcox, of Rome, Ga.; Rev. R. S.
Arrowood, ’13, of Concord, arid R. J. Knight,

22, of Safety Harbor, Fla., are new mem-
bers of the board of trustees. Mr. Royster
and Dr. Wilcox were elected by the Gen-
eral Alumni Association, and the, other two
were chosen by their respective Presbyteries.

Dr. Robert W. M¢Kay, '17, of Charlotte,
lectured before the Robeson County Med-
ical Society at its monthly meeting held
last Monday at Lumberton.

Rev. Ben F. Yandell, '17, of Charlotte,
was the principal speaker at the regular
meetings of the Mecklenburg Ministerial As
sociation. Monday.

Births

1916—Mr. and Mrs. Jas. H. Carson, of
Charlotte, announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Charlotte, on February 3.

1924—Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Heston, of
Atlanta, Ga., announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, in February.

1925—Mr. and Mrs. R. G. White, of
Louisville, Ky., announce the birth of a
daughter, Corrie Carter, on February 8.

ANNUAL STATE MEET
(Contnued from page 3)

Tilson requested those coaches accepting the
invitations to notify him immediately so
that entry blanks would be mailed them.

This meet is held rather early in the sea-
son so that the coaches can get a line on
the material which they have, and can get
their men in shape for meets later in the
season. The Freshmen will probably enter
this tournament, but will participate only
for the experience and the dope which this
will give of the caliber of their team. They
will, of course, be given no credit in the
scoring column.

Coach Tilson is expecting over twenty
schools to enter. Each year the number of
entrants has increased and he expects the
field this year to be representative of the
largest high schools in the state. Among the
schools attending the meet last year were
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Wilmington,
Greensboro, Raleigh, Barium Springs, and
others. ;

The Davidson coach also stated to the
high school mentors that a loving cup would
be awarded the winner as has been the cus-
tom since the inception of the track car-
nival at Davidson. He also announced that
the teams and their guests would be the

_| guests of the college, in the way of enter-

tainment, while on the campus.

Charlotte High School has been the con-
sistent winner of the cup in the past. As
differerit high schools have entered the
tournament, gradually increasing the num-
ber, the competition has grown keener and
the winner has had no easy path to vic-
tory. The last event of the afternoon decided
the winner last spring.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts
—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete free-
dom and enlarged on it a bit for men who've dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none: the less. We are a little
tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your
shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C. ;

