THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

BEAT
THE CITADEL

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMEN PLAY
P. J.C. HERE FRIDAY

Davidson Wildcats to Clash

With ,

Contest This Saturday Is the Last
to be Played Here This Year

CLOSE GAME EXPECTED
Competitive Scores Show the Two |
Teams Evenly Matched |

Davidson's home schedule will be brought to |
a close here next Saturday when the Wildcats |
battle the Cadets of The Citadel in the elev- |
enth meeting of the two schools. The Cadets |
return this year with a determination to avenge |
the defeats they have suffered at the paws of |
the Wildcats the past two seasons. |

Last year the two teams met in Charlotte and |
Davidson eked out a 6-0 victory, when Joe Mc- |

Citadel Saturday

Little, Alec Montgomery, J. H. O'Keeffe, Bruce
Peabody, Ben Taylor and Joe Tyack.

Any man in college is eligible to try for Sigma
Delta Psi. Pete Whittle, the assistant athletic
director, who was a member of the new chapter
in 1930, is aiding Captain Pritchett in testing
the men for the various qualifications. He urges
every man, and especially the Freshmen, to
come out now and get some of their events
off. It is not necessary to run off all the events
at once. They may be passed one at a time and
a record will be kept of each. That is, one might
pass four or five events one year, and a record
of them will be kept so that he will not have
to pass them again the next year.

A beautiful trophy is given every year to
the man makingthe most number of points in

Call scored a touchdown within the first five |the competition. Extra points are given in all

minutes of the game. The year before Davidson |
won over the Cadets by a 7-6 score, the extra |
point which proved to be the margin of victory |
being kicked by Thad Brock. |

Davidson first met the South Carolina school |
in 1909, That game ended in a scoreless. tie, |
hut since that struggle nine contests have been |
played between the two schools. Of théSe nine
the Wildcats have emerged the winner in seven,
The Citadel in one, and the others resulted in
a tie.

In the ten games played the Wildcats also
hold an advantage in the scoring department
with a total almost double that of the Cadets,
Davidson scoring 113 points to The Citadel's
57. Except for the 1910 battle, which Davidson
won, 27-6, all the struggles have resulted with
small victory margins.

This year The Citadel brings an eleven to
Davidson which has won three games, lost two,
and tied one. They have been outscored by their
opponents 32 to 25. In this respect Davidson
holds a slight advantage over her opponents with
40 points to 38. Davidson also has three vic-
tories, two defeats, and two ties for this vear’s
record,

In her first game of the season The Citadel
lost to Mercer, 26-0. But Mercer has a pow-
erful eleven which has met defeat only once in
six attempts against S. I. A. A.
fall.

Against Erskine the following Saturday, the
Cadest showed a more versatile attack and de-
feated the Seceders to the tune of 12-6, Since
then the Seceders have played the Wildcats to
a scoreless tie. This should show in a slight
degree the comparative strength of the Wild-
cats and Cadets.

The Citadel's third game, played against
V. M. I., ended in a 13-13 tie. Their next two
struggles were with Clemson and Stetson. Both
of these resulted in 6-0 victories for the Cadets,
but in their games last week against South
Carolina, they were unable to hold the Birds
and the latter ran roughshod over them to the
tune of 27-6,

Since Davidson defeated V. M. T. by a 7-0
score last week, the Wildcats are given a slight
edge over the Cadets, but from all indications
the battle will be hard fought and the final score
will be close.

Roane Chosen Head
Of Sigma Delta Psi

The members of the Davidson chapter of the
Sigma Delta Psi national honorary fraternity
held a meeting last week for the election of
officers. R. FE. C. Roane, the only man in col-
lege now that was taken in in 1930, was elected
president for the scholastic year 1931-32, and
Johnny Creech was made secretary and treas-
urer.

Sigma Delta Psi is a goal for anyone who is
athletically inclined to strive for. It has been
recognized by the Honorary Fraternity Council
and has been installed in all the leading col-
leges and universities. Only 18 men have made
the Davidson chapter since it was incorporated
in 1930. The following men passed all the re-
quirements last year, and automatically became
members of the fraternity: Tom Brohard, John
Creech, W. A. Flinn, R. Z. Johnston, A. G.

teams this

A Complete Service

forSchool Publications

the running and field events. Last year Flinn
won the trophy, with Peabody running him a
close second, Also, a member of Delta Sigma
Psi counts one point for his fraternity toward
the winning of a trophy.

The qualifying events are as follows:

100-yard dash—11 3-5 seconds.

Shot put—according to weight.

Football punt—120 feet.

120-yard low hurdles—16 seconds.

Running high jump—5 feet.

Running broad jump—17 feet.

20-foot rope climb—12 seconds.

Baseball. throw—250 feet.

Javelin throw—130 feet.

100-yard swim—1 minute, 45 seconds.

l-mile run—6 minutes.

Front hand spring—landing on feet.

Hand stand—10 seconds.

Fence vault—chin high.

Good posture—standard B (H, B. M.)

Scholarship—eligible for varsity competition.

Maximum substitution is three letters or in-
tra-mural championship and two letters.

October 3, Lexington, Va.: Davidson 1p
W. and L. 0; October 31, Davidson, N. C.:
Davidson 7, V. M. I. 0. Both teams from
Lexington; both teams from Virginia; both
scores 7-0. Two victories out of three games
with Virginia teams. Not bad.

Back into form again and displaying a de-
termined and confident mode of attack, not too
cocky, the Wildcats outplayed the clean fight-
ing cadets of V. M. Vv to win decisively by a
7-0 score. Running their plays with an attitude
of savoir faire, every man playing his part in
each play as it should be played, the ‘Cats
seemed to have lifted themselves out of a former
rut in which there seemed to be no co-opera-
tion, and were functioning, with the exception
of a portion of the first half, with machine-like
precision.

And this is the way we like to see them
play. A winning attitude—that’s it. 'S’a funny
thing about these Wildcats, they'll fight, all
right, every time, but you never can tell
when they're going to fight together. And
that’s what counts—co-operation. They re-
mind us somewhat of these four Mills broth-
ers of radio fame. Nobody knows when the
‘Cats are going to be on or off their game,
and nobody knows when the Mills brothers
are going to be on or off the air. But when
they are “on”—well, that’s something else,
and no mistake.

But to get back to the game, we observed
that the Wildeat line, which only too often
gets less commendation than the backfield, was
man, It’s sad but true
(the line) do all the

fighting
that the coat and pants

truly every

Phi Gam-Beta Tilt Will Decide Champs

After a very exciting and sticcessful season,
the inter-fraternity touch football tournament
came to a close yesterday afternoon. The final
game was played between the Beta Theta Pi
team, who were defending champions, and the
Phi Delta team. The Betas earned
their right.to play in the finals by defeating
the Kappa Sig's, the K. A.’s, and the S. P. E.'s.
The Phi Gams won the final position by their

Gamma

} Pi K. Avs, and then a bye into the finals. As
this the
not been pkayed.

The games all
jand drew larger crowds than ever bhetore.°The

issue went to press, final game had

| were very closely contested
jgames were divided into two halves of fifteen
Minutes apiece and were very well run off by
| ete +.

jcompetent officials. The whole tournament was

| stretched over a period of about three weeks.

victories over the Phi Kappa Phi’s: and the The results pf the games were as follows:
S.A. E.
S\ oP EB
SBOE je Eve |
Vi Betas
T. U.O. A). ein
K. A. i 18-0
K. A. oe. | :
Betas | ‘
a ~ 12-0
etas
t
| ch . J ' Winner
Kis), shes
hi Del
Pe aha As
“30 yds.”
ae Phi Gamms
; 8 yds. ——Bye,
Phi Gamms PliGanise ;
Phi Kappa Phi) 77°

Nationally Known

Camel Pile Coa

Stetson “D” Store

»- OPRECIAL . .

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

and Justly Famous

ts - $37.50

Watts Defeats Georgia 7-0
in Y.M.C.A. Benefit Contest

work, and the vest (the backfield) gets all of
the gravy. Gardner, Whitfield, and Johnson
played brilliantly at times, and were possibly
outstanding in the line, while Brown, Mathis
and Raker kept things hot for any of the cadets
who came their way. Conway played a very
good defensive game, and Wagner, though
handicapped by a bad shoulder injury and a
bum knee, was a stone wall of defense.

One thing we like about Buddy Gardner,
when he tackles a man, that man has to
récline a minute or two to remember where
he is. We like to see a man leave his feet,
get a half-nelson on the ball carrier in mid-
air, and let him know that he’s been hit.
Incidentally, Dick Whitfield and Bob John-
son are no mean tacklers. Bob has come
through in a-big way, and we predict big
things for Dick in the future.

It was Billy Flinn who made the touchdown,
a 34-yard run off tackle in a scintillating gal-
lop which would have done credit to an All-
American. And to give credit where it is due,
there was a nice hole there to give him a good
start.

Parson Peabody’s 65-yard run from the
10-yard line was undoubtedly the most bril-
liant of the afternoon, matched only by
Smith’s 60-yard sprint for V. M. I. Peabody,
who dodged and eluded several tacklers at
first, cut straight for the sidelines, and but
for one man, would have scored.

Don King ran his team well and was also
good for several gains through the line. And
though he got through for extra yardage
through the line several times, Charlie Pearce
distinguished himself mostly by some beautiful
punting. Gill of V. M. I. evidently had an off
day, for his punts were often for very short
distances, one in particular which was good for
only two yards,

Next Saturday the 'Cats meet another mili-
tary team, the Citadel. These boys play
clean, hard football, and it is always a pleas-
ure to see these two teams scrap. The
Citadel defeated Erskine by a 12-6 count
earlier in the season, but played V. M. I.
on even terms for a 13-13 tie, so anything
may happen when they meet the Wildcats.
With the exception of Wake Forest, who
plays P. C. at Wake Forest, the Davidson-
Citadel game will be the only Big Five game
in North Carolina, and should be the center

of attraction on November 7.

*

pees eee eins ene |

Marquis Piero Misciattelli, professor in the |
University of Siena, noted Dante scholar and |
authority on Italian art and literature, is lectur-
ing at Calumbia University this fall.

Game Is First of Series of Games to
Be Played Between Dormitories

MARION CROSSES GOAL

Georgia Threatens in Final Period But
Fail to Score

In the first of a series of football games be-
tween teams from various dormitories, Watts
defeated Georgia, 7-0. The game was played on
the varsity practice field, and was attended by
a large number of students, who gave enthusi-
astic support to the two teams, as well as to
certain individual players. The proceeds of the
game went to the Y. M. C. A.

During the first quarter, team tried
plays to test the other's defense, and neither
threatened the other's territory. In the second
period, Watts began a steady drive down the
field to Georgia's 8-yard line. On the next
play, Marion off left tackle, and
squirmed through the Georgia defense for the
Montgomery's
drop-kick was good. The half ended after a
few more plays, the score being Watts 7, Geor-
gia 0,

The third quarter was a_ repetition of the
first; both teams holding for downs and ex-
changing punts. In the final quarter, Georgia
attack, which did not
prove very successful. Watts made several gains

each

slipped

only touchdown of the game.

resorted to an aerial
through the line, and the game ended without
further score.

Smyre and Bethea for Watts, and Bell for
Georgia were the shining lights in the line,
while Montgomery's punting and Kuykendall’s
returning of those punts were the features of

ey

“DRUGS”

Students’

.

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

the backfield performance. The line-up was
as follows:
Watts (7) Georgia (0)
Smyre L.E, Gorham
'T. McCallie L.T, Ashcrait
St. Clair L.G. Shaw
Kirkland Center Reid
Bethea R.G, Morrow
Stevens R21) Johnson
Holland RE, Bell
Moseley Q.B. I. Kuykendall
Montgomery L.H. Williams
Marion R.H. Martin
M. Manson FB. Tomlinson
Give Us a Trial
NORTON’S
“SODA”
Supplies
“SUNDRIES”
me |
ou

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

“HEARTBREAK”
CHARLES FARRELL

WEDNESDAY

“SIN OF MADELINE CLAUDETTE”

THURSDAY
“24 HOURS”

FRIDAY
“ROAD TO RENO”

