>

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 39, 1931

———

——__—_—_—__—

Forty-Eight Davidson Alumni Are
Now Teaching in Preparatory Schools

Territory Covered in Survey Made by
the Alumni Office Included Insti- '
tutions Scattered Through
Eleven States

SIX HEAD INSTITUTIONS

Majority of Teachers in Classes Re-
cently Graduated—1930 Leads
All With Eleven Men

Forty-eight Davidson College alumni are
teaching in 26 different preparatory
junior colleges or orphanages, according to a
survey which been completed in the alumni
office at Davidson. The territory covered ex-
tends from Texas in the Southwest to Massa-
chusetts in the East, and extends in the Mid-
west as far as Kentucky. It includes institu-
tions in 11 states.

Ernest Milton, who made the survey, pre-
pared it from records in the alumni office, and

schools,

states that he will give the names of additional
Davidson alumni who are connected with pre-
paratory schools if any have been omitted. This
is supplementary to the tabulation made last
fall, and includes more institutions than those
reviewed one year ago.

It is significant that the majority of the
alumni in this work are from the more recent
classes, for 37 of them have graduated in classes
that. finished here since June, 1923. The class
of 1930 has the major representation, since 11
of its members are engaged in this endeavor.

Six of the 48 alumni, or one-eighth of them,
head institutions. Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’'09, is
president of Presbyterian Junior College; Jos.
B. Johnston, '01, and Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, are
superintendents, respectively, of Barium Springs
and Lees-McRae; Dr. S. H. Cook, '09, and
Dr. C. R. Wilcox, ’11, are presidents of Martha
Berry Schools and Darlington School, re-
spectively, and Major Harlee Morrison, ’16, is
commandant of Texas Military College.

The full list of institutions and the names
of Davidson alumni teaching in them are as
follows:

Woodberry Forest, Va.: Leonard W. Dick,
Jr., '23; H. C. Johnston, ’28, and H. S. Cov-
ington, ’31.

Battleground Academy, Franklin, Tenn.:
Glenn M. Eddington, ’26; W. M. Regen, ’29,
and Robert E. Kell, ’29.

Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, Port
Gibson, Miss.: H. S. McCallum, ’23; K. V.
Woodham, ’27, and J. R. Caldwell, Jr., ’31.

McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.: C. M.
S. McIlwaine, ’25, and W. W. Purdy, ’25.

Darlington School, Rome, Ga.: Dr. C. R.
Wilcox, ’11, president; R. O. Flinn, Jr., ’29.

Berry Schools, Mount Berry, Ga.: Dr. S. H.
Cook, ’09, president; W. A. Johnson, ’16,
treasurer; G. M. Ford, ’23; J. M. Gudger, ’28;
Robert M. Thompson, ’28, and A. H. Shepard,
Apes) Ch,

Presbyterian Junior College, Maxton: Rev.
R. A. McLeod, '09, president; Chas. R. Hunter,
'25, and G. P. Henderson, ’30.

Porter Military Academy, Charleston, S. C.:
John S. Alden, ’30)"and R. T. Ellet, ’30,

Lees-McRae Institute, Banner Elk: Edgar
H. Tufts, ’22, president; L. K, Pritchett, ’28,
and E. L. Lafferty, ’30.

Barium Springs Orphanage: Jos. B. Johnston,
01, president; J. H. Lowrance, 05; Ralph Mc-
Millan, ’26, and R. G. Calhoun, ’29.

Crossnore School: J.
and T. R. Nunan, ’30,

Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon, Ky.:
C. E. Hodgin, Jr., '24, and N. C. Hodgin, ’30.

Others include H. S. Shaw, ’08, Haverford
School, Haverford, Pa.; C. B. Saunders, ’11,
St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; A. P.

B. Christenbury, ’30

Boo.
™

Alumni Death

AW. P. McGehee, '86

William Polk McGehee, member of the 1886
class at Davidson, died at his home in Denver,
Colo., on November 27th. Mr. McGehee went
to Colorado some years ago because of ill
health, and for the past several months was in
a critical condition. For many years he was
travelling representative of the Sharp & Dohme
Chemical Company, of New York, with head-
quarters in Denver.

Mr. Davidson from Ra-
leigh, and after leaving here he attended the
University of North Carolina. For a while he
was connected with the Seaboard Air Line Rail-
way Company, of Raleigh, before ill health
forced him to relinquish his position and go to
Colorado.

McGehee entered

Saunders, 18, The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. ;
Major-Harllee Morrison, 16, president Texas
Military College, Terrell, Texas; W. O. Green,
'27, Schreiner Institute, Kerrville, Texas; J. R.
Farnest, '25, Augusta Military Académy, Fort
Defiance, Va.; W. W. Fraley, ’31, Shenandoah
Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.; Zeb V.
Long, Jr., '30, Virginia Episcopal School,
Lynchburg, Va.; R. M. Christian, ‘30, St.
Christopher’s School, Richmond, Va.; W. A.
Brown, ’28, Highland Institute, Guerrant, Ky.;
R. M. Engle, ’28, Tupelo Military Academy,
Tupelo, Miss.; W. B. McGavock, ‘30, Branham
and Hughes Military Academy, Spring Hill.
Tenn.; James A. Ward, 731, Webb School,
Bell Buckle, Tenn.; T. W. Brohard, '30, Stony
Brook School, Long Island, N. Y.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble Awarded
The Mayflower Society Cup

His Book, “A History of the Public
Schools of North Carolina,” Was
Basis of Award

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, 1879 alumnus of Da-
vidson, was signally honored last week when
he was presented with the Mayflower Society
Cup, awarded to the best work written during
the year by a North Carolinian. The cup was
the first ever to be presented, and was awarded
this distinguished Davidson alumnus and edu-
cator at the closing session of the North Caro-
lina Literary and Historical Association.

The handsome cup was given to Dr. Noble
for his book, “A History of the Public Schools
of North Carolina,” a work which created con-
siderable favorable comment when it first came
from the press, and describes the story of the
development of public education in this state.

In making the presentation, Josephus Dan-
iels described Dr. Noble as “the eldest of five
immortals who have written glorious chapters
in the history of public education in the state.”
Since announcement was made of the award,
many of the North Carolina newspapers have
commented editorially upon the wisdom of the
choice made by the Mayflower Society.

After leaving Davidson, Dr. Noble enrolled
at the University of North Carolina. He became
superintendent of the public schools at Wilming-

.|ton in 1882, where he remained for 16 years

before he became affiliated with the School
of Education of the University of North Caro-
lina, in which capacity he has served ever
since. In 1913 he was made dean of his depart-
ment. He has been frequently called the “grand
old man” of education in North Carolina.”

Alumni Personals

Engagement

College Briefs

Among alumni visitors to Davidson during the
past week were R. T. Faucette, 01, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.; Rev. Warner DuBose, D.D.,
04, Mobile, Ala.; Dr. Chas. B. Robson, Chapel
Hill; E. L. Lovelace, '26, High Point; L. H.
Corbett, °31, Atkinson, and C. S. Faucette,
33, Chattanooga, Tenn.

C. C. Alexander, ’10, with the National Cash

Register Company, is now located in Char-

lotte.

Dr. P. S. Tompkins, '28, is an interne at the
University of Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

Dr. D. Heath Nisbet, '13, is head of the med- }-

ical staff of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

Rev. Robert L. Mcleod, ’23, who has been
pastor at Grenada, Miss., has accepted the pas-
torate at Winter Haven, Fla.

John F. McInnis, °30, who taught last year
at School at
Va., is now connected with Cannon Mills, Inc.,

Virginia Episcopal Lynchburg,
at Kannapolis.

F. L. Lovelace, '26, who has been with Tom-
linson Chair Manufacturing Company for sev-
eral years, is now state representative for Wil-
liams-Norris Co., furniture manufacturers, with
headquarters in High Point.

L. H. Corbett, °31, and A. C. Ward,
both of Atkinson, have gone into the garage

32,

and mercantile business together in Atkinson.

Births

1924—Dr. and Mrs. W. Z. Bradford, of Char-
lotte, announce the birth
December Ist.

Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Sells, Jr., announce
the birth of a S6n, William Samuel, ITT,

on November 4th.

of a son on

1928

Cleveland—(1P)—Professor I. Lester Furnas
of Western Reserve University, returned from
a summer healfh survey cruise off the coast
of Alaska with a conviction that contact with
the white race raises the deuce with Eskimo
health.

Since April he was lieutenant commander
aboard the:United States ship Northland mak-
ing a study for the United States Public Health
Service in Washington and giving first aid to
those who needed it.

Tn remote settlements never before visited hy
white men he found the natives had perfect
teeth. But in the settlements where white ad-
venturers had called, he found teeth in terrible
condition.

Dr. Furnas found toothache sufferers in some
parts in the habit of prying out the painful
teeth with nails, while one man reported that
he had shot out a bad molar with a gun.

Complete Service

School Publications

Jeu Books
Quer City Printing@o.
Chartotte IC

BALFOUR
Jewelry Showing

| At DAVIDSON

~ Friday, Dec. 11

f°

W. G. PENRY COMPANY

LEXINGTON, N. C.
SHOWING AT MISS MINNIE’S

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10TH
SPECIALS ON

Topcoats — Knickers Pajamas
Shirts Socks Ties
PETE KNOS Representatives DUCK POWELL

eo
oo

oi

Battle-Denny

“Mr. S. T. Battle, of Atlanta, Ga., announces
the engagement of his daughter, Marion, to
Edwin Harden Denny, of Memphis, Tenn., fot-
merly the marriage to take
place on December 26th.”

of Greensboro,

and with the exception of a short time, he has
been affiliated with the Addressograph Com-
pany for ten years. He is now sales agent for
a territroy that covers five states, with head-
quarters in Memphis. Prior to a recent promo~
tion he was in Charlotte and Atlanta. “Miss
Battle, formerly of Augusta, Ga., attended Hol-
lins College.

Murray-McKinnon

“Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Murray, of Laurinburg,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Martha Fairley, to James Calvin McKinnon,
also of Laurinburg, the wedding to take place
in December.”

Mr. McKinnon is a member of the 1926 class
at Davidson, and since leaving here has been in
business at Laurinburg.

Baird-Watkins

“Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Baird, of Warsaw, Va.,
announce the engagement of their daughter, Vir-
ginia Page, to Thomas Cobb Watkins, of Lex-
ington, Va., and the of the
wedding to be announced later.”

Davidson, date
After completing his college course in three
years and graduating in 1928, Mr. Watkins at-
tended the University of North Carolina for two
years. He is now a member of the faculty at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.,
where he is teaching for the second year.

Huntington, W. Va.—(1P)—Chicago Univer-
sity with its youthful Robert M. Hutchins as
president, and Allegheny College with its 31-
year-old president, must not suppose that they
are the first higher educational institutions in
the United States to have youthful adminis-
trators.

It is recalled here that near the end of the
last century the late Champ Clark, then 23, was
president of Marshall College here. He later
became a candidate for president and was for
a number of years’ speaker Gf the House of
Representatives in Congress.

He also during his life practiced law in Kan-
sas and managed a newspaper in Louisiana. He
died in 1921.

College Park, Md.—(1P)—The Diamond-
back, undergraduate publication at the Uni-
versity of Maryland, has revealed to its read-
ers that a little red brick building near the
campus which now houses the university's agri-
cultural station, was once a wayside inn, and
that at one time the Marquis de
stayed there.

Lafayette

; |
Mr. Denny is a 1922 alumnus of Davidson,

SCARLET TANAGER NORTON’S
Sodas — Tobaccos BARBER SHOP
Sundries
Sandwiches — Hot Drinks
ee agi We Assure You
Phone 9143 Correctness

Pittsburgh—(IP)—The college girl is inclined
to be “sloppy,” it was declared here by Dr.
Robert Emmons Rogers, professor of English
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
who two years ago set the country agog with

|his advice to college graduates to be “snobs.”

Here are some of & Rogers’ statements in
a talk here :”

“The girl who is a college graduate seldom
has to use sex appeal in the business world.

“The college girl is inclined to be sloppy—
the more educated she is the sloppier she usu-
ally is.

‘It is to the advantage of any girl, seeking
a position or filling one, to be well groomed
and attractive.

“As a general rule, the man and wqman who
are not college graduates are inclined to be more
careful of their personal appearance.

“The old-fashioned employer resents sloppi-
ness in the appearance of his workers ; the mod-
egn employer is reconciled to it.”

New Orleans, La—(IP)—The Richardson
chemistry building at Tulane University was
partly wrecked last week when a defective drum
of hydrogen sulphide exploded. Two hundred
students and instructors in the building escaped
uninjured.

Fire which
under control.

Two women students, trapped on the third
floor of the building, climbed out a window
and hung to a ledge until they were rescued by
a hook and ladder crew. A professor leaped to

followed was quickly brought

safety from a—lower window, but was unin-
jured,

Philadelphia—(1P)—The Temple University
News has, for the last seven years, conducted
an annual prize contest for the best Christmas
stories written by the university’s undergradu-
ates.

Prizes of $15 and $5 respectively are offered,
and the winning stories are published in the
paper. Judges include persons prominent in
Philadelphia publishing fields, and the editor of
the feature section of the News.

Station, Texas—(IP)—-Sophomores
at A and M College here are a more econom-
ical bunch than the college’s freshmen, it is
revealed in a survey being conducted by the
department of rural sociology at the college.
After the sophomore year, however, the stu-
dent’s expenses increase again.

According to the survey the freshman at
Texas A and M spends $641.22 a year; the
sophomore, $591.69; the junior, $636.25, and
senior, $761.00.

College

Sali Lake City, Utah—(1IP)—Non-sorority
co-eds at the University of Utah have formed
an organization known as Phrateries. It is an
outgrowth of the women’s section of the Barbs
organization, made up of non-fraternity men.

Nationally Known

Stetson “D” Store

.. SPECIAL . .

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

and Justly Famous

