o o

THE DAVIDSONIAN, i

MAY 6, 1931

O. O. McIntyre Gives
Tips on Manhattan

Writes of Experiences on First
Going to Big City

O. O. McIntyre gives some personal ex-
periences on his going to Gotham in the
June issue of College Humor.

“At the outset,” says Mr. McIntyre, “‘it
is only fair to chronicle I am what might
be called a New York-o-phile. To me, living
on this narrow strip of island is sitting on
top of the world.

“It is no exaggeration that when I stepped
from my Middle West train into the dizzy
rotunda of Grand Central that L would have
given all I possessed—which to be precise
included a healthy appetite, two suits of
clothes, a change of underwear and forty-
six dollars and fifty cents in cash—to have
taken the next train back without stepping
outside: the enormous terminal.--

“I knew then what was meant when I had
read that New York was ‘an ogre.’ The
same buckitty-buckitty which is today a stim-
ulant was then something indefinably calam-
itous. There was a sensation of utter isola-
tion—a drop of water in a vast ocean.

“I have heard many welfare workers and |
others interested in Manhattan sociology say |
that no young person should come here with |

an idea of finding a niche in the man-made
cliffs without having money enough to last
at least six months. For a single person the
amount is fixed at six hundred. For a mar-
ried couple the amount is nine hundred dol-
lars.

“Every day charity organizations are pay-
ing railroad fares back to the cross-roads of
the great army of Those Who Failed. Yet
if I were a young man who had just left
college and was equipped with a high-pow-
ered ambition to get on in this amazing
world, possessed excellent health and equally
excellent ideals along with enough money—
say sixty dollars—I would make a bee line
for New York.”

Large Registration
Already Completed

All but 43 members of the present Dav-
idson College student body of the three
lower classes have completed their regis-
raion for next fall, according to an an-
nouncement from the office of Fred W.
Hengeveld, registrar. This means that
422 students, members of the present
freshman, sophomore and junior classes,
have signified’their intention to return to
Davidson next fall. The 43 who have nate
qualified represents a smaller number
than usual.

.Mr. Hengeveld also stated that 100
members of the incoming freshman class
‘next September have been accepted and
registered, either by sending in their
credits to the registrar or making a room
deposit fee with the treasurer. This ad-
vanced registration is only slightly less
than it was one year ago at this time. Sel-
dom does a day pass now that some ap-
plicant is not accepted for enrollment at
Davidson.

The total registration for the 1931-1932
scholastic session is therefore 522, with an
estimated further registration of new
men, or old ones returning after an ab-
sence, of about 125 students. It is planned
to maintain the enrollment at Davidson
next year around the 650 mark. The reg-
istrar predicted that’ several of the 43
men who failed to register during the pre-
scribed period would be in Davidson.

Davidson officials have expressed satis-
faction over the outlook, in the face of a
general financial depression throughout
the country.

LingleAttendsFuneral

Last Friday afternoon the president of
Davidson College, Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
left en route to Charlottesville, Va. He
went for the purpose of participating in
the funeral services of the late Edwin A.
Alderman, president of the University of
Virginia. This noted educator died Wed-
nesday, and Dr. Lingle received a long
distance call, asking him to take part in
the last rites. Although surrounded with
and pressed by his other important duties,
Dr. Lingle gladly consented to go, and
left for Charlottesville Friday, returning
to Davidson Saturday night.

Mother (after visitor had sohe) =: Bohby:

-what on earth made you stick out your |.

' tongue at our pastor? Oh, dear!__--_-__..

‘Why, Muvver, just showed it to
_ He said “Littul man, how do you feel?”
I thort he was a doctor.

Evelyn Ervin Gives
Delightful Program

Last Monday night, May 4th, the Mu
Beta Psi musical fraternity of Davidson
presented Miss Evelyn Ervin, organist
from Queens-Chicora College in Char-
lotte. Miss Ervin is the honor student in
organ of the graduating class there. She
was assisted by Miss Miriam Murphy,
violinist, and Miss Nella Sharpe, accom-
panist. The program is as follows:

I. Sonata in D Minor—Opus 2—Guilmant
Largo e maestosso

Allegro
Pastorale
Finale
Miss Evelyn Ervin ;
DN BiZarresduesacsouucsuuusaseoscess Kroll
Miss Murphy and Miss Sharpe
Li aDewdrops scsscccuccussesecsss Suinnen
ROSEHUdS -eseuectessccesles Suinnen
The: tNTrUsitiviaakecccsccccaa] Kinder
Miss Evelyn Ervin
IV. Indian Lament 2--2:._-...-_.- Dvorak
La Media Noche --2--------- Atrles

Miss Murphy and Miss Sharpe
Vv; Etude de Concerts------ cole Bonnet
Caprice Heroique ~--------- Bonnet
Miss Evelyn Ervin

These selections were rendered beauti-

\fully, and the audience applauded gen-
erously. This is the first of a series of
musical concerts to be sponsored by Mu
Beta Psi this week, which is National
Music Week. A member of the fraternity
has charge of the devotional exercises
each morning in chapel. Tonight Dr.

Minor C. Baldwin, the Dean of American
Organists, and also called the Paderew-
ski of the organ, will be presented in an
organ recital. Tomorrow night, Thursday,
the Atwater Kent Audition for Davidson
will be held, the winner of which will rep-
resent. Davidson at the State contest.

SENIOR CLASS

(Continued from page 1)
Jesus touches the personal side of her life.
Next he mentioned the rich young ruler who
had many good traits but who was not a
positive believer and was not ready to give
up everything for the service of Christ. The
speaker stated that the commission given at
the tomb was not restricted, but boundless
in scope. In the same way Jesus makes no
restrictions today as to color, nationality,
sect, or what-not. In proceeding, he asserted
that we are all brothers and each has an
integral part in the Kingdom. He contrasted
the story about a tourist’s regard for his
fellowman with the story of the Good Samar-
itan. Jesus told this parable to illustrate
that.a neighbor is a person who shows mercy.
He asked the question, “Why are people

was through love of Him. Continuing, he
focused attention on Mary’s spontaneous ac-
tion which was a result of her love. He at-
tested that William James says, “The love
of a mother for her dying child is perhaps
the most beautiful thing in the world.”

Mr. Kraemer cogitated with the assembly
on what a wonderful world this would be
if every one who professes Christ would
‘serve Him. He showed how reasonable Jesus’
requsts are, since He never asks others to
do things that He has not done Himself.
Above all things he cautioned his hearers to
never be satisfied with what they have done.
When tempted to indulge in this, he suggest-
ed that they think of the great sacrifice that
was made that others might be saved. Jesus
died as a man, and rose as Lord, which
makes Him conqueror over life and death.
The speaker affirmed that religion is a posi-
tive impetus in lives and teaches unselfish-
ness. Proclaiming that religion must more
than convince, but rather pervade the entire
life, he assured the group that it was worth-
while to give up everything for Jesus and
voicing the hope that his audience would set
out to make its religion positive, closed his
talk on “The Positive Life.”

After the second speech the whole con-
gregation repeated together the Mizpah ben-
ediction,

called on to serve?” The answer he revealed

i

r

College Calendar

Wednesday, May 6, 8:00 P. M.—
Organ recital by Minor C. Bald-
win, in Chambers Auditorium.

Thursday, May 7, 8:00 P. M.—At-
water Kent Audition Contest in
Chambers Auditorium.

Friday, May 8, 2:30 P. M.—Varsity
Tennis Team vs. V. P I,

Saturday, May 9, 2:30 P. M.—Var-
sity Tenniss sTseam vs. Citadel.
3:00 P. M. — Freshman Tennis
Team vs. Charlotte High.

Sunday, May 10, 6:00 P. M.—Moth-
er’s Day “Y” Vesper program.
Mrs. Robert Glasgow from Char-
lotte will speak in Chambers Au-

_ ditorium.

Monday, May 11, 2:30 P. M.—Var-
sity Tennis Team vs. Citadel. °
8:00 P. M.—Dr. Howard Rond-
thaler speaks at O. D. K.
Initiation Ceremony at Chambers.

Tuesday, May 12, 3:30 P M.—Fresh-
man Baseball Team vs. Charlotte
High School.

7:15 P. ‘M.—Literary Societies
meet in their respective halls.

Wednesday, May 13, 3:00 P. M. —
Freshman Tennis Team vs. Caro-
lina Freshmen.

COLLEGE WILL CONFER

(Continued from page 1)

burg, will be the recipient of the doctor of
literature, and the doctor of divinity degrees
will be conferred upon Rev. W. H. Lingle,
well-known missionary to China; Rev. L. R.
Scott, of Valdosta, Ga., and Rev. E. W.
Way, of Jacksonville, Fla. ~ ;

Mr. Allen is a business executive in New
York and was the business and confidential
advisor of the late James Buchannan Duke.
He is the executor of Mr. Duke’s will, is
chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
Duke Endowment, and is chairman of the

‘Board of Directors of the British-American

Tobacco Company.

The president of the University of North
Carolina, Dr. Graham, is a graduate of the
University, and after serving for many years
on the faculty, he was recently made_presi-
dent of America’s state university. Dr. Gra-
ham has already been honored by/ one de-
gree this spring by a Southern panenion

Prof. pe IN Tillinghast graduated from
Davidson in 1891 and later obtained a mas-
ter of arts degree here. He was a student
at Cornell and has taught at Oregon, Bel-
fast, Ireland, and Washington, D. C. He is
now professor of social sciences at Converse
College in Spartanburg, S. C.

The doctor of divinity honorees are Mr.
Lingle, a graduate of Blackburn College,
McCormick Theological Seminary, and for
forty years a missionary to China; Mr.
Scott, a graduate of Davidson in 1908 and
a graduate of’ Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., pastor in Montgomery, Ala.,

and now a minister of the Presbyterian |

Church at Valdosta, Ga. and Mr. Way,
minister of the Southern Presbyterian
Church. Mr. Way is now in Jacksonville,

and he has spent his life in the ministry,
largely in Florida.

Mother’s Day Program
Mother’s Day is next Sunday and
Carl Pritchett announces that there
will be a special service in observ-
ance of this event. Mrs. Robert
Glasgow of Charlotte will speak at
the vespers Sunday evening and it
is expected that there will be a large
attendance to hear her talk. The
following Sunday the Freshman
class will conduct the services. This
is the third class that has sponsored
these exercises this year and the
plan is a successful one. Dr. J. L.
Fowell is going to make the com-
mencement address before the “Y”
and he is sure to have morsels of
practical experience to relate.

ey

“DRUGS”

Students’

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO, , Inc.

Q

“SODA”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

DAVIDSON TEAM TAKES
(Contin(ued from page 3)

ner of Duke for fourth.

High jump: Won by Clark, N. C. S., 5
| feet 6 3-4 inches; second, Smith, Duke, and
Stafford, N. C., tie; fourth, Brewer, Duke.
| 120-yard high hurdles: Won by George,
| Davidson ; second, McCall, Davidson; third,
| Little, Davidson; fourth, Paris, N. C. S.
| Time: 15.8 seconds.
| Broad jump: Won by Fulmer, Duke, 2
| feet 11 inches; second, Howard, N. C., 21
feet 4 1-4 inches; third, Brewer, Duke, and
| Goodman, N. C. S., tied, 21 feet 1-4 inch.
| §80-yard run: Won by McGinn, N. C. S.;
| second, Watkins, N. C.; third, Bradsher,
| Duke; fourth, Simon, High Point. Time:
2 minutes and 5-10 second.
| 220-yard dash: Won by Brownlee, Duke:
| second, Fleagle, Davidson; third, Smith, N.
'C.; fourth, Drane, N. C. Time: 22.6 sec-
| onds.
| Two-mile: Won by Baucom, N. C., second,
| Brannon, Davidson; third, Hubbard, N. C.;
| fourth, Lewis, Duke. Time: 9 minutes 51.7
seconds (new record).
| 220-yard low hurdle: Won by George, Da-
| vidson; second, Slusser, N. C.; third, Little,
| Davidson ; fourth, McCallie, Davidson. Time :
| 25 seconds.
| . Javelin: Won by Dupre, Wake Forest, 180
feet 514 inches; second, Whitesides, Wake

Forest, 165 feet 814 inches; third, Brown,
N. C., 158 feet 5% inches; fourth, “Massen-
gill, Duke, 157 feet 9 inches.

Mile relay: Won by North Carolina
(Smith, Drane, Watkins, Weil); second,
N. C. S.3 third;; Duke; fourth, Davidson.
Time: 3 minutes 25.2 seconds (equals rec-
| ord). :

Discus: Won,,by Dameron, N. C., 136

feet 6 inches (new state record) ; second,
Seitz, N. C., 127 feet; third, Brown, N.°C.,
125 feet 11 inches; fourth, Thompson, N. C.,
118 feet 3 inches.

One-mile: Wom by Jones, N. C.; second,
Simon, Duke; third, Earle, Davidson; fourth,
Richs, State. Time: 4.32,

440-yard run: Won by Floyd, N: C. S
second, Maryland, N. C.; third, Weil, N. C.;
fourth, Silver, N. C. S. Time: 51.1 seconds.

FRESHMEN ARE DEFEATED

(Contnued from page 3)
(C), Landis (C). Time: 23.8. 220 low
hurdles: Allison (C), Hawthorne (C),
O’Keefe (D). Time: 26.6. Quarter-mile run:
Halyburton (D), Glasgow (C) Wright {D).
Time: 54.2 Half-mile run: Turpie (C), Cur-
lee (D), Corbin (D). Time: 26.6.

Shot put: Harold Sutton, Hasty, Allen,
all of Charlotte. Distance: 45 ft. 114 in. High
jump: Rhyne and Pratt, both of Davidson
(tied for first) ; Lambeth and Stothart, both
of Charlotte (tied for third). Height: 5 it.
2 in. Pole vault: Hopson (C), first; Pea-
body (C), and Stephens (C), tied for sec-
ond. Height: 10 ft. 6 in. Discus throw: Dill
(D), Harold Sutton (C), Hasty (C). Dis-
tance: 110 ft. 1 in. Broad jump: Soule (C),
Pickard (C), Allen (C). Distance: 21 fr.
7 1-4 inches. Javelin throw: Howard Sutton,
Harold Sutton, Allen, all of Charlotte. Dis-
tance: 160 ft. 10 in. Mile relay: Charlotte
(Mock, Landis, McGill and Hopson).

’CATS PLAY GOOD

(Contin(ued from page 3)
The fielding of the ’Cats was a feature of
the game. The Seceders committed a total of
six errors, while Davidson made but two.

The score: Re oH
Mavidson\ 22s -2 5520-8 2 ee 6 6 Z,
Mrakine: coches 3 6 5

Batteries: Davidson, Croker and Armfield ;
Erskine, McGill and Knox.

OMICRON DELTA
(Continued from page 1)
ball letters, belongs to Eta Sigina Phi and
Scabbard and Blade. He was alternate cap-
tain of football and is a captain in R. O. T. C.

Jas. A. Jones, Laurinburg, N. C., is the
retiring president of the Forensic Council.
A member of the student council, Alpha Phi
Epsilon, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social
fraternity, he also served on the Y Cabinet
and was manager of Freshman football.

Jk. Smith, Dunn, N. C., has recently
retired as manager of the Student Store.
He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social
fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, and is cap-
tain in R. O. T. C., and Senior marshall
for commencement.

Composing the seven Juniors bid to Omi-
cron Delta Kappa are:

FE. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte, N. C., who
was recently elected editor of Quips and ~
Cranks for next year, belongs to Delta Pi
Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, Sigma Upsilon,
and International Relations Club, honorary
fraternities, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

R. P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga., is president
of the Y. M. C. A,, and belongs to Eta
Sigma Phi, International Relations Club,
and Omega Phi Alpha.

R. W. Gorrell, Jr., Winston-Salem, is
football manager for 1931, business manager
of the Wildcat Handbook for the past year,
is on the Y Cabinet and Student Council,
and belongs to Phi Gamma Delta, social
fraternity.

D. S. King, Bristol, Tenn.-Va., is presi-
dent of the Student Body for the coming
year, a member of the football team for
two years. He also belongs to Scabbard and
Blade and Kappa Alpha.

J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla., is
president of the rising Senior class, a mem-
ber of Scabbard and Blade and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon. He also serves on the Y Cabinet.

D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C., presi-
dent of the Athletic Association, wearer of
varsity football “D,” belongs to Kappa Sig-
ma, social fraternity, and has won distinction
in scholastic attainments.

D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga., editor-in-
chief of The Davidsonian, has won a letter
in varsity. basketball. He belongs to Le Cercle
Francais, Sigma Upsilon, Scabbard and
Blade, International , Relations Club, Delta
Pi Kappa, the Y Cabinet, and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, social fraternity.

Other student members of Omicron Delta
Kappa are: A. R. Bird, Jr.. Thad Brock,
W. W. Fraley, W. B. Goodson, C. H.
Goodykoontz, R. M. King, D. S.. LaFar,
J. D. McCall, A. B. McClure, J. W. Mc-
Cutchan, A. W. McLean, Dean Rusk, and
C. A. Sisson.

FORMAL INSTALLATION
{Continued from page 1)
Goodson, in giving his position to Don Mc-
Queen, stated that it was his sincere hope
that the Wildcats would beat Wake Forest
in football while the new Athletic Associa-

tion officers were in office.

The final feature on the program was a
farewell address made by Dan LaFar which
he concluded by giving the gavel to Jack
McKinnon, président-elect of the rising
Senior class. McKinnon said in acceptance
of the gavel that he wished, on behalf of the
new Senior class, to accept the challenge
offered to him by Davidson’s traditions, and
that”he hoped that his class would measure
up to the high standards set by the out-
going class. The meeting was then adjourned
for the barbecue in the banquet hall.

College Prof—How are we to meet the
high cost of living?

College President—You don’t have to meet
it. It overtakes you.

Davidson Theatre

Monday, 11th

“DRACULA”
Tuesday, 12th
GLORIA SWANSON

“INDISCREET”

wi
BEN LYON
Wednesday, 13th

“SHIP MATES”
Thursday, 14th

“DAY BREAK”
Friday, 15th
a MAN”

“PAINTED DESERT”
