THE DAVIDSONIAN,: NOVEMBER 25, 1931

=

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

N.C. C. W.

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, wife of the Gov-
ernor of New York and “First Lady of New
York State,” recently spoke to the students
on three very important subjects dealing with
the, professional and office life of the yoyng
women of today. Her three topics were: “The
Necessary Equipment for a College Woman
to Enter the Business World,” “Opportunities
for the Modern Woman’ in the Business and
Professional World,” and “Ways and Means of
Getting in Touch with These Larger Oppor-
tunities.”

Mrs. Roosevelt is well known as a_ hostess
and as a model housewife. During the great
war she was cited as a model for efficiency in

which took him several hours’ hard work. And
still he will say that it is none of his business,
that he doesn’t lose anything. Again, students
say they do not want to make enemies. Yet,
when we analyze, we see that the man who
will desert us on a moral question will not
make a valuable friend, and will not be able to
effect much damage as an enemy.

“The Honor System is only a mechanism,
and its success or failure depends upon the stu-
dents who compose it. If they stand behind it,
and perform all duties connected with it, they
need not fear that men will brand it a failure.
If it fails, there is only one answer—it is the
students of Wofford College who have failed in
their moral character. The Honor System is for
real men, careful of their own rights as well
las the rights of others.” .

In the “Y” reading room, papers trom the
| following colleges can be found: Wofford,

the home where she very ably managed ten| Duke, Furman, N. C. C. W., Converse, East

servants and five children, quite a task. In the
state of New York she has been very active in

. . ¢ . |
educational, sociological, and political affairs. |

| Chicora, Emory, G. C. W., N. C. State, Ca-

Furman

| Carolina Teachers’ College, Georgia Tech, Get-
|tysburg College, P. C., Ga. State College for

Women, Oglethorpe, Southwestern, Queens-

|tawba, Marshall College, Alabama College,

Here at Davidson we hear much about sports- | Washington and Lee, Virginia State Teachers’

manship and spirit, but we do not read about
the spirit of other teams, except on rare occa-
sions, even though we see it very vividly in the
playing of the teams and the student bodies of
our rivals. To show the sportsmanship and
spirit of one of our rivals, Citadel, whose sports-
manship and spirit we are quite aware of, we
quote an editorial from The Hornet on “Citadel
Spirit.”

“Those Furman students who were able to at-
tend the Citadel game last Saturday have re-
turned with enthusiastic accounts of their treat- |
ment on the Citadel campus. In the first place |
all Furman’ students were admitted to the game |
free, which is always gratifying to a college
man. In addition, however, the spirit showed
by the Cadet corps both before and after the

| College, Auburn, Clemson, V. M. I., University

of Tennessee, Mars Hill, Mercer, Austin Col-
lege, High Point, Salem, Winthrop, Wake For-
est, Mary Baldwin, Lenoir-Rhyne, Roanoke,
Wesleyan, Sewanee, Brenau, Agnes Scott, Car-
son-Newman, Judson College (at Marion,
Ala.), and one from Poly Prep Country Day.
School of Brooklyn, N. Y.

Dr. J. M. McConnell

Unveils Monument

Dr. J. M. McConnell was the principal
speaker at the recent unveiling of a monument
at old Crowfield Academy.

Crowfield Academy was an old classical

game was that of a group of thorough sports- |
men. Furman students wish to express their |
appreciation of the attitude taken. It is easy to|
be generous in victory, but to be generous and |
courteous in defeat is the mark of a gentleman |
and a sportsman.”

Duke

Phi Beta Kappa held their autumn vote re-
cently and twelve seniors. were elected ‘to the
highest honorary fraternity in the land. In this
group there were seven boys and five girls.
' Their initiation will take place in December.

Omicron Delta Kappa, probably the second
highest honorary fraternity in the land, elected
seven men of the Senior class to their body.
At.the tap day Dr. William H. Wannamaker,
dean of the university, was the principal speaker.
At the banquet which followed the initiation,
Dr. Frank Brown, national president of O. D. K.
and sponsor of the Duke circle, was the prin-
cipal speaker.

Converse

Mrs. Amelia Earhart Putnam, the famous
transatlantic aviatrix, spoke to the student body
in the auditorium at a recent meeting. Mrs.
Putnam came under the auspices of the Salva-
tion Army and the Red Cross for the social
welfare purposes particularly in regard to the
unemployed. Her talk was made up almost en-
tirely of speaking on the subject of aviation.
To her it seems that aviation is a necessary
means of transportation, but that the greatest
problem that now confronts those interested in
aviation is that of making it safe.

Wofford

“The growth of the Honor System has closely
paralleled the growth of government. In gov-
ernment, first, there was the primitive horde,
with hardly any organization. Then came the
stage where families bound themselves together
in tribes and tribes into nations. Then they
chose a king, and the system of authority came
into being. But gradually men began to take
upon themselves more and more power, until
today we have the citizenship form of govern-
ment, which we believe to be the best. No one
would dare, suggest that we need a king or the
authority system of government. But we do
hear students groaning for the authority sys-
tem in student government and honor. They
want to be trusted in business, in the practice
of law, in the practice of medicine, or in any
other profession, but they do not want to be
trusted while in college. They expect to be mag-
ically transformed from an untrustworthy per-
son in college to a person of the highest integ-
rity in business. They do not realize that be-
fore. one can be trusted in matters of great
concern he must first be proved trustworthy in
small things.

“Students say they will not report because
it is none of their business. They keep them-
selves within the rules of the system, but it is
none of their business if the other student trans-
gresses. Yet that same student feels that it is
some of his business if he is short-changed, or
cheated in a business deal—he feels that it is
distinctly his loss. Yet when he sees the student
beside him getting his work through illegal
means, he is content to sit by and see the stand-

ard run up, and consequently, a good mark]

harder to make. ‘He is content ‘to see the other

school. It was founded in 1760 on a site just
two miles north of Davidson on highway num-
ber 26. The unveiling of the monument was a
result of the efforts of the Mary Slocumb
Chapter of the Daughters of the American
Revolution. ,

It is interesting to note that of the many
great men who schooled at this old institution
of learning, the first three professors of the
University of North Carolina were among its
graduates,

Crowfield Academy also was the forerunner
of Davidson College, which makes the incident
more personal and consequently more interest-
ing. Dr. McConnell was accompanied on the
trip by Prof, A. C. Currie.

“Goethe” to Be Subject
For Essays in Contest

In commemoration of the one hundredth an-
niversary of the death of Goethe, the Carl
Schurz Memorial Foundation, Inc., Philadel-
phia, Pa., announces a national essay contest,
which is open to all undergraduates at colleges
and universities throughout the United States.
Liberal cash prizes, amounting to almost $1,000,
are announced. The first prize for an English
essay is $200 and a similar first prize is of-
fered for the best essay written in German.
The choice of subjects and the rules of the
contest are announced on a poster which has
been distributed to all institutions of higher
learning. Essays must be submitted to the head-
quarters of the Foundation in Philadelphia not
later than September 15, 1932, and are limited
to 5,000 words. A number of prominent pro-
fessors of German at some of the leading
American colleges and universities have agreed
to serve as judges.

Dr. McConnell in Wreck

Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history,
while en route from Charlotte to Davidson, was
in an automobile accident on the Statesville
highway last week, The wreck occurred just
as Dr. McConnell was approaching Davidson.
It seems that he was traveling along at a fairly
good rate of speed, when another car, coming
in the opposite direction, attempted to pass an-
other car which was meeting the McConnell
car. To avoid a serious accident, Dr. McConnell
drove his car into the ditch to keep from hitting
either of the two cars. In doing this, Mrs. Mc-
Connell was thrown against the door and re-
ceived a broken arm. She was taken to the
Charlotte Sanatorium where her injuries were
cared for. ‘The other occupants of the car were
not seriously injured.

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

.

Let Us Fix You Right
For Thanksgiving |

Death of Mr. Beaty

On

Sunday morning the brother of
Professor Ernest Beaty died at his home
in Monroe, N. C. Mr. Beaty had been ill
for three days with pneumonia. The fu-
neral was at 10 o'clock Monday morning.

Local Spanish Club to
Be Installed Into Sigma
Delta Piin Near Future

Members From University of Chat-
tanooga and South Carolina to
Lead Installation Services

PROF. BLYTHE GIVES TALK

Associate Professor of Spanish Gives
an Interesting Talk on Madrid

Last Wednesday night at 8:15, the Spanish
Club met in the “Y” Social Center. The chief
event of the evening was a talk by Professor
Blythe, associate professor of Spanish, on the
subject of “Madrid.” Another important mat-
ter which was brought up was the fixing o
the date for the installation of the Spanish Club
at Davidson as a chapter of the national Span-
ish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi.

This event is to take place Saturday, De-
cember 12, and at that time representatives of
Sigma Delta Pi from the Universtiy of Chat-
tanooga and the University of South Carolina
are to come to Davidson to take part in the
installation of the chapter heré.

Sophs Nose Out Juniors

List Friday the Juniors met the Sophomores
in the inter-class basketball tournament. The
game was a very snappy one and both teams
exhibited some very good playing. The final
score, which was 7 to 9 in favor of the’ Soph-

game, but the Sophomores finally broke through
and took the game.

The line-up was as follows:

Juniors Sophomores
MAG Manson ccosecscacwocsccccSoeses Lafferty
Right Forward
GalHOlUn: ccsicudssbostaussacuubescaue McLean
Left Forward
Gampbell ulus sceeccdeweocdouscceeuced Holland
Center
Betist:ccussacsawgauucseccoueocaas Halverstadt
Right Guard
WO8t  souueicodocsseseeeeuueouecs. A. Manson

Left Guard

Freshmen Defeated

In Inter-Class Game

Last Monday afternoon in a very exciting
game the Juniors defeated the Freshmen in
one of the games of the inter-class basketball
contest. The Freshmen outplayed the Juniors
the first half and near the middle of the third
quarter they were leading, 16 to 4. The Juniors
staged a flashing comeback, shooting field
goals from all sides, and won the game, 24 to 16.

The line-up for the game was as follows:

iniors Freshmen

IMafiSOl” sccconcdacanncuccascoopeas Harris
Right Forward

Galhotitie 2eccsee ee seseceueteceouse Everette
Left Forward

Gatnbpell: acs eos ercpecse seus asco Secees Sigman

Center

IW 6St:: Gosecsusbccussnsennoesecouces Yelverton
Right Guard

Bettisiescecsasucsscesucuesusscoscceses Byerly

Left Guard

The substitutions, which were numerous for
both sides, were: Juniors, Myers for Manson;
Boucher for Calhoun;* Coble for Campbell;
Bradsher for West; and Bernard for Bettis.
Freshmen, Elvery for Harris; Lessom for
Everette; Ross for Sigman; Ross for Yelver-
ton; Burns for Byerly, and Monroe for Burns.

Bell Writes Article

For Atlanta Journal

Recently in the Sunday Magazine Section of
the Atlanta Journal appeared an article by
Vereen Bell, the editor of Davidson's humor-
ous magazine, “The Yowl.” The article was
entitled, “The Goof Club at Davidson.” It
seems that a society by this name has been
organized here year before last. The purpose is
to gather into a brotherhood all those unfor-
tunates who are knocked “goofy” in football.
The “goofs” who are desired in the club are
seized upon when in a semi-conscious or som-
nambulant state during the “first, fine, careless:
rapture” of their goofiness and hurried to the
sanctum of the shower-room. There, they are’
initiated into the order by a process which is-
supposed to involve interrogation by questions-
of a not wholly sane variety. Among the char-
ter members are Goofs Pearce, Peabody and.
Clarke.

There are two kinds of deucation. One is that
which makes you pass examinations, the other
is the one you enjoy. This makes education air
atmosphere, a discipline and a lift, and pro-
duces a human being.—Bishop David of Liver-

pool. .

Philadelphia—(IP)—The University of Penn~-
sylvania Museum of Art has announced the
unearthing of a Persian cemetery of about
2,000 B. C. by its expedition in that territory.

f io
A. Gerskov — The Tailor

SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

omores, remained very close during the whole Referee: Montgomery. ©

bbs Ly |
ef ea
fa

Dining Room on

Fifth Floor

Tea Room and
Fountain in Basement |

If You Can’t
Come In—Just
Phone 3-4141

SHIRTS
$1.65

Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are
the shirts that you can buy to
stand the wear that laundries give
them. White and colors. Collars
attached or stiff,

MONROE SUITS
$22.50

In gray, tan, or brown, in
homespuns and worsteds....
these are the famous Monroe
Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be sure
and try one on the next time you
are in town. Other Men’s Suits
priced from $11.95 to $50.00.

SOCKS
35c and $1.00

Interwoven Socks in both plain
and fancy patterns. Silk and silk
and wool combination. You can’t
have too many ... but buy good -
ones when you buy.

o

WHERE UP-to-the-MINUTE COLLEGIANS

LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES

SHOES—$4.95

Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-
straight Shoes for men. This national brand that fits
the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black
and brown.

TIES—95c

Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations . . . resil-
iant lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a
good selection of colors.

DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S

Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the
mezzanine for your convenience . . . meet your friends here ... we are always glad to see you.

Men’s Dept.
Street Floor

SUEDE COATS
$8.45

Glover and MacGregors Suede
Coats in both sweater and coat
style. Button or zipper fastenings
as you wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in
brown. This is ideal for campus
wear.

UNDERWEAR

Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts of
broadcloth and rayon. They have
quality-built comfort. that you'll

_/appreciate. Also Cooper’s Win-
ter Weight Union Suits at $1.45
and up.

SWEATERS
$2.95 to $3.95

You can find the Sweater here
that you’ve been looking for.
Something just a little different.
Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and
coat styles and both V and crew
necks.

Men’s Dept.
Street Floor

student get by a few minutes copying that

