THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors here recently were
Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, Pineville; H. C.
Little, ’27, Albemarle, and Scott Brown, ’30,
Chattanooga, Tenn.

Dr. Porter P. Vinson, ’09, one of the lead-
ing staff members of Mayo Clinic, at Roch-
ester, Minn., was again in Davidson for sev-
cral days during the past week. Dr. Vinson
had attended the dedication of the Duke Med-

ical School, as the official representative of |'

Mayo’s. Prior to that, he had made a lecture
tour of Oklahoma, delivering four addresses,

Friends will regret to learn Of the death
of Mrs. R. M. Dulin, mother of N. B. Dulin,
14, Bowling Green, S. C.; P. M. Dulin, '26,
Albemarle, and J. G. Dulin, '28, Columbia,
South Carolina.

Rey. R. C. Long, ’13, secretary of the
stewardship committee of the Southern Pres-
hyterian Church, with headquarters in At-
lanta, has been called to the First Presby-
terian Church of Greenwood, S. C,

In the recent election of student body offi-
cers at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., three Davidson alumni were se-
lected. They included T. FE. Hill, ’29, presi-
dent; R. F. Sloop, ’29, vice-president, and
T. A. Freeman, ’22,  secretary-treasurer,
Frank Hall, ’29, was also elected president
of the Society of Missionary Inquiry.

R. W. McCutchen, '95, of Bishopville, S.
C., was recently elected president of the Ro-
tary Club in that city.

Ralph E. Helper, ’01, has been elected
mayor of Mangum, Okla, The Mangum Daily
Star, in reporting his election on April 8,
carried a two-column photograph of Mr.
Helper, and in the cutlines under it he was
described as a “popular civic leader.”

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, who is playing
baseball with the Columbus, Ohio, club of
the American Association, hit safely 11 times
in 23 trips to the bat in one week. Included
in the 11 safe blows were four home runs
and three two-baggers.

J. M. McCorkle, ’90, polled the second
largest vote among 17 candidates for alder-
manic posts in Salisbury in the primary elec-
tion held in that city Monday.

North Carolina Bankers Association at Pine-
hurst this week was William H. Neal, ’17,
of Winston-Salem, director of public rela-
tions of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Com-
pany. The subject of his address was, “Look-
ing After Your Child.” Photographs of Mr.
Neal and Paul P. Brown, ’03, of Raleigh,
secretary of the N. C. Bankers’ Association,
appeared in last Sunday’s issue of The Ra-
leigh News and Observer.

J. C. Sanford, '09, has been renominated
as an alderman at Mocksville, and R. B.
Sanford, '98, has been renominated as a
trustee of the city schools of the same local-
ity. This primary vote is equivalent to elec-
tion.

Rey. Ralston Bitzer, ’22, who has been
assistant professor in Hebrew and Greek
at Union Theological Seminary, “Richmond,
Va., has accepted.a call to become assistant
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at
Charleston, W. Va. The April 19 bulletin
of that church, among other things said, “Mr.
Bitzer is an A.B. of Davidson College; a
B.D. and M.Th. of Union Theological Sem-
inary; M.A, of Peabody Institute in Sec-
ondary and Religious Education. He has also
spent a summer at the University of Chi-
cago studying the Gospels and the Hebrew
language. Mr. Bitzer has taught three years
in high school and three years at the Sem-
inary. He was Hoge Fellow at the Sem-
inary in 1929,”

Bethel Presbytery, in a recent meeting at
Lancaster, S. C., chose Rev. J. O. Mann, '06,
of Chester, S. C., as moderator, and Gran-
ville Presbytery, meeting at Greenville, N.
C,, selected Rev. S. H. Bradley, ’23, of Roa-
noke Rapids, as one of the clerks.

Fred D. Hamrick, Jr., ’30, who went to
the University of North Carolina from Da-
vidson, has been elected president of the
Senior law class at Carolina for next year.
His home is at Rutherfordton.

T. J. Murphy, ’90, of Greensboro, and T.
T. Allison, 1900, of Charlotte, both candi-
dates for aldermanic posts in their respective
cities, were in the upper bracket of the votes
cast in the primaries last Monday. Mr, Mur-
phy was fourth in a field of 16, and Mr. Al-
lison was fifth in a field of 17 candidates. ,

Rey. M. P. Calhoun, ’23, is assistant pas-

Among the speakers appearing before the

tor of the Bream Memorial Presbyterian
Church at Charleston, W. Va. Following his

Intensive Campaign Being Launched
For the Re-Union of Twelve Classes

Letters From Presidents of Classes
and Others Will Be Mailed Out
During Next Thirty Days—En-
tire Alumni Body is Invited

One month from tomorrow, and the 1931
commencement of Davidson College will be-
gin. During the next 30 days the office of
the alumni secretary will be busy, sending
out letters to the various classes from their
presidents and classmates, and concentrating
upon getting the alumni to return for the
exercises and for their reunions.

Among the classes to have reunions at Da-
vidson this year are 1876, which group is
returning for its 55th! year reunion; 1881,
which returns for its half-century mark;
1906, for its quarter-of-a-century ‘out of coke
lege, and 1930, for its first reunion “since
graduation. In addition, eight other classes
are scheduled to be here, in two different
contemporary groups, 1891, 1892, 1893, and
1894, and that of 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913.

As a preliminary to the letters, class lists
of these men were recently mailed out to
the’ individuals, showing the present where-
abouts of the alumni. On ‘the desk of the
alumni secretary are numbers of letters from
class presidents and others, all of which will

Alumni Marriages

Sturdevant-Prevost

James Aubrey Sturdevant, member of the
class of 1929, and Miss Lelia Prevost, both
of Columbia, S. C., were married on April
25 in the St. John’s Episcopal Church of
that city. Mr. Sturdevant entered Davidson
from Delray, Fla., and had completed his
preparation for Davidson in the Berry
Schools, Mt. Berry, Ga. Mrs. Sturdevant
obtained her education at the University of
South Carolina.

ten days, Special invitations are being writ-
ten to the men of ’76 and ’81.

The entire alumni body is always invited
to comnjencement, and many of them annu-
ally return for Alumni Day, which is Tues-
day, Jithe 3, The alumni luncheon is given by
the collegé“ensthat day. This year an addi-
tion to. the program Wilk he a meeting of a
larger Alumni Council on Moffay, the mem-
bers remaining oyer through the Tutsday
program. Dinners for the groups and special
classes will be arranged for those desiring
them, and these will be on Tuesday night
of Alumni Day.

~

be sent to the proper classes within the next

graduation from Union Theological Sem-
finary, Mr. Calhoun was in Brazil for some
time.

Gen. W. A. Smith, ’65, of Ansonville,

wrote a tribute to the late Dr. Walter Pharr
Craven, '72, of Charlotte, which tribute ap-
peared in The Charlotte Observer of April
27. Dr. Craven was the surgeon general for
his division before his death, a member of
the State Commander’s staff, and one of the
outstanding veterans of North Carolina.

W. F. Carter, Jr., '12, has been elected
commissioner-at-large by the citizens of Mt.
Airy.

R. S. Wilson, ’27, student at Union The-
ological Seminary, has accepted the college
pastorate at the University of Virginia.
Julian Lake, ’28, has accepted a call to the
Presbyterian Church at Warrenton, Va. As
soon as possible, a complete list of the Da-
vidson men finishing work at the seminaries
this spring, and the places to which they
will go, will be given through these col-
umns.

Approximately Forty Alumni Met In

Richmond, Va.,

Dr. C. M. Richards Addressed Chap-
ter— Officers Were Elected _
Tribute Paid to Dr. W.( J. Martin
—Dancing Question Discussed

Approximately 40 Davidson College alumni
and guests met for a dinner-meeting on Fri
day night, April 24, in the dining hall of
Union Théological Seminary, Richmond, Va.,
to listen to an address by Dr. C. M. Rich-
ards, 92, member of the Davidson faculty,
to elect officers, Davidson and
her affairs informally, and to sing college

to discuss

SONS.

Officers selected for the ensuing year were
Dr. J.. Allison Hodges, '79, president, and
R. M. Christian, '30, secretary-treasurer.

Reports from the retiring secretary of the
Richmond chapter stated that Dr. Richards
made a “fine” and a “good” talk to the as-
sembled alumni on the conditions at David-
son, the changes that are taking place, and
later on responded to questions brought be-
fore the chapter for consideration, giving the

Last Friday Evening

action which had been taken locally.

Dr. W. J. Martin, ’88, president-emeritus
of Davidson, was among those attending, and
during the meeting a tribute was paid to
him. He made a “fine and touching response,”
said the report. Harry G. Goodykoontz, ’27,
told about the meeting of Davidson alumni
in Chattanooga during the World Congress
on Missions, with particular emphasis upon”
the tribute paid Davidson by a non-alumnus,
Dr. W. M. Anderson, of Dallas, Texas.

A topic which has been universally dis-
cussed in Presbytery meetings and the church
papers was that of dancifig at ‘Davidson,
which was also discussed at the Richmond
meeting. Many varied opinions were ex-
pressed by the assembled group, but no ac-
tion, pro or con, was taken by the chapter.

A motion was made and unanimously car-
ried that Dr. Richards bring back to Ernest
Milton, alumni secretary, a written vote of
“appreciation for the work he has done since

(Continued on page 5)

as Winston-Salem, the cigarette

Every Package

now a

Humidor

Carrizozo, n. M., now gets
Camels in as prime condition

burn the throat. Thanks to our
patented vacuum cleaning ap-
paratus and the new Humidor

capital of the world. Camels
that leave our factory are now
wrapped in moisture-proof, air-
tight Cellophane which acts asa
humidor and keeps the natural
moisture in.

Peppery tobacco dust and
harsh moisture-robbed tobacco
are what sting the tongue and

CAMELS

Pack everybody, everywhere,
can enjoy the Camel blend of
fine Turkish and mellow
Domestic tobaccos in prime,
fresh condition.

Switch to Camels today
then leave them tomorrow, if
you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO Co.
Winston-Salem, No.

© 1931, R. J. Reymtte Tobacce Company

Factory-fresh CAMELS
are air-sealed in the new
Sanitary Package which
keeps the dust ahd germs
out and keeps the flavor in.

