THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

‘ if ; a)
Fall s The first three petitions deal with God:|
Services Begin His Name, His Kingdom, and His Will; the

U |
Morning of Nov. VG | aatidwine of His Name, and the petition)

| that His Kingdom and Will shall be done on
| this earth. Reverence must be essential in
Subject Is “Establishing the Relation | the worship of God; we must have a respect-
Between Ourselves, Our Society, | should make one more in tune with God,
and Our God” | ful approach to Him. The beauty of nature

since this is His beauty.
A man’s name defines him. There is a
On November 17, at chapel, the Young | tendency to be disrespectful in the using of
Men’s Christian Association of Davidson His Holy Name. Dr. Miles told his audience
College began its series of fall services. The that swearing and profanity is an inversion
opening feature of this program was a solo| of prayer; instead of asking our Father to
by Mrs. G. R. Vowles, following which Al-| bless something we ask Him to damn it.
bert McClure, after a short introduction, The speaker said that Whitman said in re-|
took charge of the singing. {gard to war, “I say this reverently, God
Then, immediately following the scripture | damn all Wars.” There is diffeernce in this
reading and prayer by Billy Rule, Dr. Wal-| and the profanity that many use irreverently.
ter Lingle introduced the speaker, Dr, Robt.| The second petition is. that of His King-
W. Miles, of Lynchburg, Va., who was to|dom. “Thy Kingdom Come.” Jesus Christ

SCHEDULE OF HONORARY FRATERNITIES

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

hold the fall services.

The topic for the morning was, “Establish-
ing the Relation between ourselves, our so-
ciety, and our God.” There are ten require-
ments which must be met before we can do
this—seven to establish the relation between
ourselves, two to establish the relation be-
tween our society, and one to establish that
relation between our God. “Those tempta-
tions which Christ had to overcome in the
wilderness represent mainly those which we
have to deal with in our own life,” said Dr.
Miles.

Some of the hardest struggles which a
person has are caused by physical tempta-
tions, or those that deal with the bodily de-
sires of the individual. But these ruin the

| Was sent into this world for a definite pur- |

pose, and that purpose was to establish His
{in you when you accept and acknowledge
| Him. The basis of this is that Jesus taught
| the absolute worth of human beings, and by
| realizing the prominence of man we can see
{his kingdom established. The kingdom of
{God is not brought about by material force
lor power (except the power of God). The

| students on this campus are here to build
|the kingdom of God on Davidson campus.
| The kingdom does not come through light-
| ning from the heavens, or by Jesus coming
from the skies in a chariot of fire, but comes
into the life of an individual through God’s
power.

| kingdom. The kingdom of God is established |

Hours Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
P. M. Glee Eu and Glee Sigma Pi Glee
Club Phi Lit. Club Sigma Club
7:00 “D” Club Societies Band Practice
Mu Beta Court of Scabbard Alpha Phi Omega Phi
8:00 Psi Control and Blade Epsilon Alpha
Omicron Gamma Delta Le Cercle
9:00 Delta Sigma Pi Francais
Kappa Epsilon Kappa
SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
Glee Eu and Phi Glee Band Glee Club
7 :00 Club Literary Club Practice IRC.
Societies
Court of Sigma Delta Delta Eta Sigma
| 8$:00 Control Pi Phi Phi
Alpha
Sigma Sigma Ministerial
| 9:00 Delta Upsilon Band
Psi
“Thy Will Be Done.” Not my will but] This did not faze her, and she said that]ly worry about our health, class room work,

Thy will, is what the speaker stressed in
lthis. The will of God does not change ex-
ternal events but changes a man from with-
in. Dr.
Congo region in Africa who was prevented

Miles told of a missionary in the

\from returning home because of insufficient
| funds in the treasury of the Missions Board.

she was in this work for God's glory and
not for her own. “Thy Will be done not
mine.”

“Give us this day our daily bread.” In
Moffett’s translation it reads, “Give us today
our bread fortomorrow.” This means to free}
us from the dominion of fear. We incessant:

what is ahead, money, positions, and achieve-
ments. We are to be freed from fear, through
Jesus Chrisst. A happy Christian is, one
that does not worry.
“Forgive us our debts.” What is a debt?
A debt is somthing that you owe a, man.
(Continued on page 8)

—wealth and fame, spent four years in college

body and also destroy the soul, therefore
we must over come them in order to estab-
lish the relation between ourselves.
Another beguilement is the one which
urges us to take “short cuts” in preparing
ourselves for our position in life, and estab-
lishing our relation to others. Those who re-
sist this temptation are the ones who make
the greatest success in life, and to prove
that fact Dr. Miles told about Roy Douglas;
who, instead of taking a “short cut” to

and three in a law school but as a reward
for these long years of preparation he is
now the youngest law dean in America. An- |
other example is that of Robert E. Lee, who,
after the war, turned down the offers of
large sums of money for being the head of
a large business concern, just to be the head
of an institution of learning and help edu-
cate others. What better example could we
desire?

“It takes only a few days to make a brush
pile but on the other hand it takes many
years to make, a tree,’ Dr. Miles stated.
“Are you going to be a brush pile or are|
you going to be a tree?”

for me...I! reac

“Leadership in Prayer”

On Tuesday evening, November 17th, at)
7 o'clock, Dr. Miles conducted the first of |
the evening services of the Fall Y. M. C. A.|
Evangelistic services. Albert McClure led!
the singing and John Howard was the feade|
er. The first song was “Jesus Calls Us o’er|
the Tempest.”

The scripture was taken from the sixth
chapter of Matthew, fifth through the thir-
teenth verses; this portion includes the
Lord’s prayer. Before Dr. Miles began his
address, the song “Break Thou the Bread of |
Life,” was sung was was sung before each |
of the meetings in the series.

be sure to
“The Cisc

The speaker announced that the purpose
of his morning services would be “Adjust-
ments,” and for the evening services “Lead-
ership of Jesus in Life.” His phase of Lead- |
ership for the Tuesday night meeting was |
“Leadership in Prayer.”

Prayer has four functions, namely: Ap-
preciation of God, Fellowship—_with God, | nal
Creative Living for God, and Discipline for
Him. The preface is the Lord’s prayer; Jesus
taught it, and it portrayed His wishes, His
formula, and His pattern. The Lord’s prayer
alone is sufficient for one man if he enters
into it whole-heartedly, and puts himself in-
to it. There are six petitions in this, and one
could take one petition a day and pray about
it, and develop it as one goes along.

Prayer is something in which we should
engage often, in order that we might feel
the presence and nearness of God. We pray
the Lord’s prayer so glibly and casually.
The disciples, seeing that Christ obtained
power from prayer, asked Him to teach
them how to pray; and He gave them the
Lord’s prayer. This prayer is different in
the books of Luke and Matthew. It was
probably /first given as it is in Luke, and

* %

Process which
modern Ultra

biting irritants

LUCKY STRIKE.

always kind to

Made of the finest tobaccos =
The Cream of many Crops —LUCKY
STRIKE alone offers the throat pro-
tection of the exclusive “TOASTING”

process that expels certain harsh,

every tobacco leaf. These expelled
irritants are not present in your

can't be in!’ No wonder LUCKIES are

“It’s toasted

“I protect my voice
with LUCKIES

“It's that delightful taste
after a cup of coffee that makes Luckies
a hit with me. And naturally | protect
my voice with Luckies. No harsh irritants

h for a Lucky instead.

Congratulations on your improved
Cellophane wrapper. | can open it.’’

Exlaodf Lou

Who can forget Edmund Lowe as‘ Ser-
geant Quirt” in “What Price Glory?”
That mighty role made Eddie famous in
filmland—and he's more than held his
own ina long line of talkie triumphs. We
hope you sawhim in “The Spider.” And

see him in the Fox thriller
o Kid.”

* * km

includes the use of
Violet Rays — the

naturally present in

“They're out —so they

your throat.

since the Jews liked to say it over and over,
again, it finally came down into the bal-
anced form, which is found in Matthew’s
Gospel. There are three petitions on one side,
and three on another. This prayer may be
called the platform of our Lord; it is a
pocket Testament; a Gospel in small com-

99
Your Throat Protection=against Irritation=against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps
that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

: \
TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE;60 mod. di
orchestras, and Walter Winchell, whose

$

Copr., 1981,
The American
Tobacco Co.

yith the world’s finest dance

gossip of today becomes the news of
di. ing over N.B.C. rk

d, as.

i tomorrow, every Tuesday, Th
pass. It gives us the key to Christian living

as nothing else can do.

'y ry

4M

MOISTURE-PROOF

CELLOPHANE
Sealed Tight —Ever Right
The Unique Humidor Package

Zip=And it’s open!

See the new notched tab on the top
of the package. Hold down one half
with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple
Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped in. dust-
proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane.
Clean, protected, neat, FRESH—what could be more
modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package
—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB
is —your finger nail protection. -

xis Mr. Lowe’s
Statement Paid For?

You may be interested in
knowing that not one cent
was paid to Mr. Lowe to
make the above state-
ment. Mr. Lowe has beena
smoker of LUCKY STRIKE
cigarettes for 6 years. We
hope the publicity here-
with given will be as bene-
ficial to him and to Fox,
his producers, as his en-
dorsement of LUCKIES is
to you and to us.

