THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SESSION
1930-31I—SECOND SEMESTER

A. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 9:00

P, M.—EXAMINATONS BEGIN AT 2:00

May Freshman Sophomore Junior and Senior
A.M. Mathematics 1 Mathematics 2 Math. 3, 4. Business 1. Educ. 1
Thur. Polit. Science 3, Psychology 2.
gi P. M. History 4, 5, 6.
A.M. Latin A, 1 Latin 2 Latin 3, Economics 3, Phil. 2.
Fri. Geology 1, 2.
a P.M... Sociology, Psychology 1.
A.M. History 1 History 1 Applied Math. 1, 2.
Sat. History 2, 3.
ag P. M. Biology 2 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5. Business 2.
Mon. A.M.
= ‘P.M. English 1 _|English_2 English 4, 5, 7, 10. Econ. 5.
A. M. Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Tues. Economics 2, Education 2.
2 P.M. Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 5, 6. Business 3.
: Psychology 4.
A. M. Economics 1, Geology 3,
Wed. Philosophy 3.
cil P. M. R.O.T.C, 1 R.O.T.C, 2 R.O.T.C. 3, 4.
A.M. Physics 1] Physics 2 Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Thur. Political Science 2.
28 :
P.M. Spanish A, 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Fine Arts 2
Physical Education
4 A.M. Political Science 1
et Education 3
P.M. German A German 1 German 3, 4. Philosophy 1,
Econ. 4. Polit. Science 4.
Pi A.M. French A, 1 | French 2 French 5, 6, 7, 8. Fine Arts 1.
P.M. —_'Bible 1 | Bible Bible 3, 4, 6. Astronomy.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SENIORS

A. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 9:00

ONLY

P. M—EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 2:00

May
Sat. A.M. Economics 1, Philosophy 3, Geology 3.
16 P.M. English 4, 5, 7, 10, Economics 5.
Mon. A. M.
18 P. M. Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Political Science 2.
Tues, A.M. Spanish, Fine Arts 2, Physical Education, Greek 3, 5, 6, Psych. 4
19 P.M. Political Science 1, Education 3.
Wed. A.M. German, Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Political Science 4.
20. P. M. French, Fine Arts 1, Business 3.
Thur. A.M. Math. 4, Political Science 3, Psychology 2, Business 1, Educ. 1.
21 P.M. History 4, 5, 6.
Fri. A.M. Latin 3, Economics 3, Geology 1, 2. Philosophy 2.
22 P.M. Sociology, Psychology 1, Bible 3, 4, 6. Astronomy.
Sat. A.M. funtiet Math. 1, 2. History 2, 3. Chemistry, Economics 2,
Education 2, Ss
23 P. M. Biology, Business 2, R.O.T.C. 4.

Note Courses not shown
by conference,
professors at once.

on schedule to be arranged by conference. Conflicts to be arranged

the Junior and Senior courses taking preference. All who have conflicts see

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Detroit—(IP) — Mrs. William Wilson
Cook, 71, divorcee of the internationally
known corporation counsel, will bring suit
in an effort to break the will of the New
Yorker who left his estate of $12,000,-
000 to his alma mater, the University of
Michigan.

Mrs. Cook, now living in ‘bos Angeles,
will contend that her divorce from Cook
in 1898 was void and that New York law
prohibits the bequeathing of more than
50 per cent of an estate to a public in-
stitution, such as a university, when there
are heirs.

Her counsel is headed by William Gibbs
McAdoo, secretary of the treasury under
President Wilson:

The Cooks were married in 1879. Mr.
Cook died last June 4 on his country
estate near Rye, N. Y.

James O. Murffin, spokesman for the
boardof regents of the university, as-
serted Mrs. Cook filed the suit for divorce
in Wahpeton, S. D., charging desertion,
but Mr. Cook filed a cross petition
charging desertion and was the winner
of the decree.

Muffin said the university would join
no doubt, with the executors in fighting
Mrs, Cook’s claims, and that the univer-
sity “has no intention of relinquishing a,
penny of the Cook millions if it is neces-
sary to carry the case to the United States
Supreme Court.”

“Mrs. Cook, I am told, will file suit for
half of her deceased husband’s fortune,”
he said “But her divorce was valid and
she has no legal claim on any part of her
husband’s fortune. Mr. Cook was Michi-
gan’s most generous alumnus.”

ae Wooster, O—(IP)—Residents of Kenar-

~~

den Lodge, upper classmen’s dormitory
at Wooster College, were in deep mourn-
ing one day last week as appropriate fun-
eral services were held for Little Joe, day-
old mongrel pup that died that morning.

The morning before Josephine, the pet
of the seventh section, Kenarden Lodge,
became the mother of seven puppies. The
room of Jim Courtney, high scoting ace
of this season’s basketball team, was
transformed into an emergency hospital
ward. All during the day periodical bul-
letins were posted in front of the chapel
stating conditions in the improvised hos-
pital.

One of the Puppies, christened Little
Joe, had difficulties in competing with his
huskier brothers and sisters and it was
thought he would die. However, several
of the pre-medico students took charge of
Little Joe and by administering warm milk
with a medicine dropper, prolonged his
life. But Little Joe died the following
morning,

That night the men of the college form-
ed a funeral procession in front of the
chapel and proceeded to the quadrangle

Yowl Being Printed

According to the Editor, the cur-
rent copy of the “YOWL” was car-
ried to press last Tuesday, April
28th. This is the third and last issue
of Davidson’s humorous: medium
that will appear this year. .

Cartoons will be more profuse in
this issue as well as short sketches
of varied topics. Copies are expect-
ed to be available within the next
two weeks.

in the rear of Holden Hall, women’s dor-
mitory. Two trumpeters from the college
band led the procession; followed by ‘six
freshmen pall bearers.

Bill Woodall of Carnegie, Pa., assisted
by Tibby Young, West Middlesex, Pa.,
star football player, conducted the serv-
ices, delivering a eulogy. Rolly Roehl of
Cleveland was funeral director.

Accompanied by tolls of the chapel bell
and taps by the trumpeters, Little Joe
was laid to rest in a plot at the rear.of

oF ----

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
nents’ Supplies

WHITE. DRUG 0. Inc.

the co-ed dormitory.

“SODA”

_ “SUNDRIES”

FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO TODAY

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

April 29, 1926—The Wildcat track team
has gone through a week of intensive
training preparatory to the state meet at
N. C. State, in Raleigh, on Friday and
Saturday.

The meet has been won by Carolina for
the last four years and some of the
strongest competition ever seen in North
Carolina is expected at this meet. If the
weather is good several state records will
likely topple, as all the teams seem to be
in better condition than they have in the
past four years.

Camel Awards Will
Be Announced Soon

Winston-Salem, N, C., April 27—An-
nouncement of awards in the Campel Cig-
arette $50,000 cash prize contest will be
made early in May, officials of R. J. Rey-
nolds Tobacco Company stated today.

The contest judges and their staff, who
have been carefully reading the approxi-
mately 1,000,000 entries, announced today
that they are rapidly nearing the comple-
tion of their work, and that within the
next week or ten days they will be able to
definitely set the dates on which the win-
ners will be announced, and _ prizes
awarded.

Judges in the contest are Roy W. How-
ard, Chairman of the Board of the
Scripps-Howard league of newspapers;
Ray Long, President of the International
Magazine Company and editor of Cosmo-
politan, and Charles Dana Gibson, the fa-
mous artist, who is publisher of Life Mag-
azine. Thirty-eight prizes will be given
for the best answers as to how the new
cellophane moisture-proof wrapper on
Camel cigarette packages benefit smokers.
The first prize-winner will receive a
check for $25,000 from R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company, manufacturers of
Camel cigarettes. Awards of $10,000 and
$5,000 will be given to the second and
third winners. The next five will receive
$1,000 each, and the balance of $5,000 will
be distributed among thirty winners.

Honorary Frats Bid

On Tuesday, April 28th, ten Honorary
Fraternities on the Davidson campus Sent
out bids. This was to be the second bid-
day of the year.

Sigma Pi Sigma, Physics society, Gam-
ma Sigma Epsilon, Chemistry fraternity,
Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kap-
pa did not extend bids. Omicron Delta
Kappa will hold their semi-annual tap day
exercises later in the year.

Those fraternities that have issued bids
are:

bard and Blade, Delta Pi Kappa, Eta Sig-
ma Phi, Mu Beta Psi, Delta Phi Alpha.

State College, Pa—(IP)—Prof. Arthur J.
Wood, head of the department of mechanical

was largely responsible through his research
for the development of the modern refriger-
ating car, was killed here when he was struck
by a motorcycle.

He is survived by his widow and a son,
Reginald, a Sophomore in the college here.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

April 29, 1921—At a recent meeting of
the Y. M. C. A. the board of control for
the year 1921-1922 was elected. The object
of this board is to handle all of the busi-
ness of the “Y” and all Christian actiy-
ities of the students. About $4.00 a year is
handled by the “Y” board. For the Fac-
ulty members, Dr. Arbuckle was re-elect-
ed for two years, and Dr. Sentelle was
re-elected for one year. No student elec-
tions .have been held as yet.

CLASS REPRESENTATIVES
(Continued from page 1)

Freshman and varsity football, was a Fresh-
man and varsity wrestler, is a member of
the “D’ Club, and was vice-president uf the
Athletic Association. He is a first sergeant
in the military department.

Nat Spier, president of the Junior class,
is from Charlotte. He is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, the Church Relations Com-
mittee, International Relations Club, and the
student council. He is also assistant business
manager of the “Quips and Cranks.”

Jack McKinnon, who comes from Jack-
sonville, Fla., is also a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. He has recently been elected
to the position of president of the Senior
class for next year. He is a member of the
International Relations Club, Eta Sigma Phi,
“Y" Board of Control, business staff of the
“Davidsonian,” varsity track squad, Fresh-
man football, and Junior Speaking Comimit-
tee. He is aN: and treasurer of the
Junior class.

Don King, from Johnson City, Tenn., is
a member of Kappa Alpha, and has served
two years on the student council, being now
president-elect of the student body. Last year
he was president of the Sophomore class.
As an athlete, Don is outstanding. His
Freshman year he played football and basket-
ball. He has played two years of varsity
football, and is a member of the “D” Club.
He is also a first sergeant in the military
department.

JUNIOR CLASS

(Continued from page 1)
of person. Napoleon attributed his success
in battle to his skill in deciding questions,
and Speir pointed out that this keen ‘judg-
ment resulted in many French victories. As
a closing thought, he said, “Choose you this
day whom you will serve.” Following this
speech, the whole asssembly recited the Miz-
pah benediction.

MU BETA PSI
(Continued from page 1)
fifty years. We feel honored in presenting
Dr. Baldwin to a Davidson audience and we
hope that many will take the rare opportunity
of hearing such a finished artist.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Al-!
pha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Sigma Up-|
silon, International Relations Club, Scab- |

engineering at Penn State College, and who |

CONWAY HOLDS
(Continued from page 1)
of the Davidsonian. His home is in Hen-
derson, Ky.

The delegation from Davidson at the meet-
ing was made up of Bob King, E. C. Dwelle,
P. M. Conway, J. H. Henderlite, B. B. Sugg,

| and Croswell Ragin.

| The other officers of the press associa-
tion which were elected at the meeting are
as follows: Ed Thomas, of Duke, was elect-
ed president; Miss Edmundson, of Queens,
was elected secretary; Stevens, student at
State, was made treasurer.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Davidson Theatre

Wednesday, 6th
“TARNISHED LADY”

Thursday, 7th and Friday, 8th
“TRADER HORN”

Saturday, 9th

“CONQUERING HORDE” |
RICHARD ARLEN, & FAY WRAY .

