THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931

Week-End Guests
Beta Theta Pi

Misses Claudia Peterson, Jacksonville,
Fla.; Dorothy Dillon, Raleigh; Jack Stinson,
Charlotte; Sara Lane Smith, Decatur, Ga.;
“De” Hall, Belmont; Hazel Ewbank, Hen-
dersonville; Penelope Cannon, Concord:
Marion Davis, Cortland, N. Y.; Virginia
Sevier, Hendersonville.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Louise Harrison, Greensboro; Hilton Rol-
ler, Washington, D. C.; Mary Page Wad-
dill, Danville, Va.; Hazel Brannon,’ Rock-
ingham; Frances Ravanell, Charleston, S.
C.; Frances Webster, Charlotte; “Babe”
Taylor, New York; Askins Ivey, Concord.
The alumni visitors were Jack Trotter,
Richard Royal, Jeter Brawley, and Charlie
Harrison.

Kappa Alpha
Misses Nancy Watts, Charlotte; Virginia
Griggs, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary Stuart
Spiers, Chattanooga, Tenn; Callie Freeman,
Social Circle, Ga.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Margaret Blue, Fayetteville ; Mary
Elizabeth Perry, High Point; Brantley
Nichols, Charlotte; Martha Clark, Fayette-
ville; Ida Bell, Charlotte; Martha Hunt,
Columbus, Ga.; Elizabeth Adams, High
Point; Catherine Stokes, Charlotte; Eliza-
beth Jones, High Point, and Betty Taylor,
Jacksonville, Fla.
Kappa Sigma
Misses Patsy McMillan, Salem College ;
Margaret Gorrel, Winston-Salem; Nancy
O’Hanlon, Winston-Salem; Frances Mar-
shall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Frances Everett,
Charlotte; Sue Horner, Durham; Elizabeth
Boykin, Charlotte; Nancy Moore, Gastonia;
Elizabeth Thompson, N. C. C. W.; Mary
Ratledge, Lexington; Louisa Hooker, Green-
ville, N. C, and Sis Levin, Raleigh. The
alumni and friends were L. C. Bruce, Jr.,
Agnew Bahnson, Jr., John Siewers, Francis
Willingham, John Davis, and Archie Glenn,
all of Winston-Salem.
Pi Kappa Phi
Miss Louise Melcher, Mooresville; Billie
Tucker, Charleston, S. C.; Dorothy Todd,
Mobile, Ala.; Mary Elizabeth Meeks, N. C.
C. W.; Hazel Bumgardner, Belmont; Mary
Neil Hobbs, Statesville; Estelle Hall, Bel-
mont; Cleon Pitts, Clinton, S. C., and Hor-
tense Wells, Columbia, S. C.
Phi Gamma Delta
Misses Lucy  Follin, Winston-Salem;
Charlotte Stair, Knoxville, Tenn.; Mary
Delia Rankin, N. C. C. W.; Mary Creech,
Winston-Salem; Sallie B. Hughes, Knox-
ville, Tenn. ; Romaine Clark, Wilson; Evelyn
Wright, Greenville, N. C.; Hazel Bowman,
Knoxville, Tenn.; Lou Hooker, Greenville,
N. C, and “Teen” Thompson, Converse
College.
Theta Upsilon Omega
Misses Nina Cranford, Albemarle; Hallie
Talbert, Albemarle; Elizabeth Gatewood,
Tellam; Alice Wharton, Ruffin; Margaret
Kimbral, Charlotte; Erle Bolick, Denver;
Christina Rosebro, Charlotte, and Ruth Law-
rence, Barium Springs. x
erance, Barium Springs.
Phi Delta Theta
Misses Mildred Moore, Columbia; Jane
Secrest, N. C. C. W.; Mary Brandt, N. C.
C. W.; Dodie Little, Hollins College; Sallie
Couch, Charlotte, and Mary Jane Wharton,
N. C. C. W.
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Misses Dolly Blair, Salem College; Vir-
ginia Knee, Charlotte; Ethel Begg, Char-
lotte; Kalista Hood, Davidson; Adeline
Wooley, Charlotte; Catherine Crowell,
Charlotte; Grace Sasseen, Charlotte, and
Aileen Wyman, Charlotte.

OH DAVIDSON!

(Continued from page 2)

On May 20, 1916, President Wilson at-
tempted to make a secret visit to David-
son but his plans had leaked out some-
how and hundreds were here to greet
him. The presidential party included Mrs.
Wilson, President and Mrs. W. J. Martin
of Davidson College, and secret service
men. The chief executive made a personal
visit to his room, No. 13, in the old
Chambers building and said that “it
seems very familiar.” From here the party
proceeded to Eu hall where he made a
short speech saying that “This is where
I made my first speech and failed.”

His visit lasted only one and one-half
hours. Incidentally, this was the first and
only visit which had ever been paid to
the Davidson College campus by a Pres-
ident of the United States.

As he enters his 73rd year, former Kaiser
Welhilm II is interested in aviation, theol-
ogy, archeology and the so-called “war-guilt”

question.

Freshman Quint Beats
Presbyterian J.C. Team

Wildkittens Play Best Game in
Running Up Large Score

A vicious band of Wildkittens climbed
aboard the Presbyterian. Junior College five
and clawed them most thoroughly to the tune
of 44 to 19. The Fresh worked together
better than they have all season.

At no time in the game did the Presby-
terian outfit threaten. The Wildkittens
jumped out in front early and stayed there.
They were-in the lead, 9 to 1, at the end of
the first quarter, 20 to 9 at the half, 34 to
13 at the third period, and piled up 10 more
points to finish, 44 to 19.

Presbyterian was not particularly bad in
any department of the game. The Fresh
just did everything better than their oppo-
nents could manage to do.

Evans went on a scoring spree and shot
22 points to take first honors. Rowan, Da-
vidson center, was second high man with
nine tallies. Campbell, Presbyterian forward,
led his team’s shooting with a total of seven
markers.

Davidson Presbyterian Junior
Holland (3) ------ ReByseece Ferguson (4)
Evans (22) ------- ) Ee One Campbell (7)
Rowan (9) -------- Gesece Mclllwinen (1)
Halverstadt (2) --R.G.------ Sandlin (4)
Lawther (3) ------ TiGisces Dellenger (1)

Substitutions: Davidson—Lafferty (2),
McLean, Reid (1), Manson (2) Morris.

Presbyterian Junior—Andrews, McCoy (2).
Referee—Pritchett.

*CATS SCORE SECOND
(Continued from page 1)

Gleland st. 2225 Se ees 0 0 0
PNG to cate lenewe cee ceeanees 3 2 0
Bdwards) Gets scccccueccecsupes 0 0 0
Smithic: ssc0 sess vew eee sees Zz 0 0
Alexander) @ ocosccccccccacanos 4 1 3
Ghoates geste scoersessscccsecce 0 0 0
Matneiog ssauscccecssesesuac 1 0 1

Motalsseecssenacueest esses 12 4 4

Musicale Presented
On Organ and Piano

Messrs. Whiddit and Craft, of
Charlotte, Are the Artists

On last Thursday afternoon, February 12,
the first of a series of musical recitals was
given by the Messrs. W. W. Whiddit and
Eugene Craft, both of Charlotte.

Mr. Whiddit opened the concert by an
organ sketch, “The Fountain,” by H. A.
Matthews. This sketch has a beautiful mel-
ody played on the pedal organ with charac-
teristic rising and falling arpeggios on the
manuals. Mr. Whiddit rendered the num-
ber very effectively. An organ arrangement
of “Finlandia,” a symphonic poem by Sibelius,
was then played by Mr. Whiddit. This se-
lection portrays the majesty and rugged
glory of the Northland. The middle portion
contains one of the most compelling pieces
of pathetic writing, very lamentable in char-
acter. “Kamennoi Ostrow,” by Rubenstein,
was played by Mr. Whiddit at the organ
and Mr. Craft at the Steinway piano. This
piece has sometimes been called a musical
portrait of a beautiful woman, The beautiful
melody conveys that idea to one. The con-
cert closed by the playing of a “Fantasie,”
by Demarest, by Mr. Whiddit and Mr.
Craft. =~

The audience of students and townspeople
was a very appreciative though rather small
one. Tt is hoped that more students will
take the advantage of hearing such artists
perform on such excellent instruments. The
next concert will be given on Thursday, Feb-
ruary 26, at 5 o’clock in the afternoon.

(IP)—A
printer has invented

Budapest youthful Budapest
a new type printing
process by which ordinary printing methods
are combined with a photographic process
which, it is declared, produces a finer print
than ever secured heretofore.

Two turkeys were found alive on a Col-
orado tarm after they had been buried in a
snow drift for 57 days.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Fayette, Mo—(IP)—The aream of every
college student—to be able to turn out the
college administration, and run the campus
himself—was given varied expressions here
recently when the students of Central Col-
lege, in a Sunday evening meeting, dis-
cussed thoroughly the question: “How a
College Student Would Run a College.”

Faculty members were given a special in-
vitation to be present, but as yet there have
been no radical changes in the college poli-
cies.

Salt Lake City—(IP—An invitation for an
annual interchange of varsity plays between
the University of Nevada at Reno and the
University of Utah has been extended the
“U" dramatic department by the director of
speech work of Nevada University in a let-
ter received here recently.

Utah dramatic officials look with favor
on the idea providing financial support is
forthcoming and student co-operation can be
assured.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—Refusal
gift from the late Albert E. Pillsbury to
the feminist movement
has been voted by the Harvard Corporation,
in charge of Harvard University. The gift
was for $25,000.

of a

combat so-called

The will of Pillsbury, former attorney
general of Massachusetts, left $100,000 to
be divided equally between Harvard, Yale,
Princeton and Columbia: for the purpose.
Harvard is the first to. announce its deci-
sion,

Salt Lake City—(IP)—FE rection of a four-
story, $200,000 ramp garage for housing all
student and faculty automobiles on the cam-
pus of the University of Utah, has been pro-
posed by the senior civil engineering stu-
dents. No cars would be allowed parked on
any other portion of the campus, according
to the Each
would pay a yearly fee of $20 for use of the

students. automobile owner

garage.

“Forty three per cent of the men students
of the land-grant colleges throughout the
country, according to a recent government
survey,” says the Times, “are working their
way through, and almost a quarter of the
women, while the combined yearly earnings
of students in 1,000 higher institutions are
estimated at $32,500,000.”

DR. ARBUCKLE
(Continued from page 1)
hearts of men and women. The person to
whom this letter is sent is someone whom
Jesus loves.

Christ's messages are imprinted on our
hearts and we must deliver them for Him.
We may feel hesitant about talking of Jesus
Christ, but we must deliver His message,
and He gives us the power to deliver it.
Dr. Arbuckle gave several experiences il-
lustrating the way in which the delivering
of Christ’s message had saved a human soul.

Dr. Arbuckle closed with this thought:
Can we not live a life so straight and true
that others will be influenced to Jesus? If
so, this will be a message delivered for Jesus
straight to the souls of the people about us.

New York—(1P)—Artificial beams, to be
taken at any of your three meals you pre-
fer, soon will be advertised in the columns
of your favorite magazine, if.plans under
way here to market ther discovery of Uni-
versity of Cincinnati scientists are success-
ful.

Under the direction of Prof. George
Sperti, university scientists have learned how
to strip light into thin bundles of closely
similar rays which have specific influence
on food, including the manufacture of Vita-
min D.,

The discovery, it is said, can be used to
add Vitamin D in definitely controlled quan-
tities to many articles of food and pharma-
ceutical products, and can also be used for
the sterilization in prevention of food spoil-

age.

YOUR TASTE

© 1931, Liccerr & Myers Topacco Co.

Which is the larger of these
two white squares? Don't
trust to your eyesight alone.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU

BUT

MILDER...AN
BETTER TASTE

tells the Truth!

>

&

—

