THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

Announcement Is Made
By Dr. E. F. Shewmake
Of Lectures for March

The Hampton Institute Quartet is
Scheduled to Appear Here on
March 10

POPULAR HERE

QUARTET

Other Lectures to Feature H. N
Wheeler and N. V. Lindsay

The lecture committee has made plans for
some very interesting attractions for the
new semester. Dr. E. F. Shewmake of the
lecture committee announces that the Hamp-
ton Institute Quartet is scheduled to ap-
Pear on March 10, following the Werten-
baker lectures. This popular quartet has per-
jormed at Davidson several times before
and their program has always been attended
by large and enthusiastic audiences. A rep-
resentative travels with the quartet and be-
tween the numbers makes short talks on
negro spirituals.

On March 12, H. N. Wheeler will deliver
an illustrated lecture on “Forest Conserva-
tion.” Mr, Wheeler has been secured to
lecture at Davidson by the North Carolina
State Forester, J. S. Holmes.

Forest conservation is ‘one of the questions
frequently discussed today, and the decture
is therefore timely and should prove to be
unusually interesting, since colored slides
will be used and many beautiful scenes of
virgin forests will be shown.

The climax of the series will be reached,
if present negotiations materialize, in the last
presentation, for it is said that the distin-
guished American writer, Nicholas Vachel
Lindsay, has been invited to give a recital
the latter part of March. Mr. Lindsay is one
of the best’ known of the living American
writers and has lectured and recited poetry
before many celebrities. Mr. Lindsay be-
lieves that strongly emphasized rhythm can
convey moods to people not reached by con-
servative verse. This writer visited Davidson
ten years ago and the committee is very
anxious to arrange for anather appearance
if possible.

CONFERENCE ON MISSIONS

(Continued from page 1)

ity, Dr. H. W. DuBose, chairman; The
Pastor and Missions—His Place and Lead-
ership, Dr. W. M. Anderson, of Texas,
chairman; The Offering of Possessions—
Adequately Financing Enterprises, Dr, Af-
bert Sidney Johnson, of Charlotte, chair-
man; and Offering of Life—The Missionary
Recruits Past, Present, and Future, Dr. W.
Taliaferro Thompson, of Richmond, Va.,
chairman.

The program of the congress will include
three principles: research, conference, ard
inspiration. The research has already been
made by the six committees, and after the
congress has convened this research will be
presented to the delegates, and other com-
mittees will be formed to make further con-
siderations. Probably the most vital question
to come up will be the’ question of the pro-
posed 40 per cent cut in the program of for-
eign missions for the coming year. How-
ever, it may be said that the purpose of the
congress is to gather our whole denomina-
tion for an earnest study of foreign mission
work so as to discharge as speedily as pos-
sible our obligation for the evangelization
of the world, and to inspire the people of the
Church to greater and more intelligent sup-
port of this great cause.

This congress was authorized by the Gen-
eral Assembly of 1929 and 1930, and marks
the seventieth anniversary of the Church's
missionary declaration adopted at the birth
of our Church in Augusta, Ga., on Decem-
ber 4, 1861; and the.19 hundredth anniver-
sary of the birth of the Christian Church
at Pentecost.

Dr. J. P. McCallie is head of the com-
mittee for making arrangements for the
delegates of the convention, which will meet
in the Memorial Auditorium. He has been
kind enough to offer to Davidson boys a bed
to sleep in, and breakfast. All of our dele-
gates are going to drive down through the
country, thus greatly reducing the expense.
At the present time it is uncertain just
how many Davidson men are going, but it is
hoped that there will be a good representa-
tion.

That Martha Washington, the only woman
who ever had her head on a regular United
States postage stamp, and whose face was
removed from the four-cent stamps last May
to make way for that of former President
Taft, should jbe given a place on a stamp,
is contended’ by hundreds of women who
have protested by letter to the postmaster
general.

Many Children Enrolled
In Elementary Schools

Approximately 185,000 Are in At-
tendance in North Carolina Ac-
cording to Superintendent Allen

Raleigh, Feb, 4—Approximately 185,000
children were enrolled in standard elemen-
tary schools of the state during 1929-30, it
is learned from a section of Superintendent
of Public Instruction A. T. Allen’s report: to
the General Assembly. This number repre-
sented more than a third of the total white
elementary enrollment for that year. Of this
number, 102,507 are rural children and 82,-
384 children in charter school districts.

A standard elementary school, according
to Superintendent Allen’s report, is one pro-
viding a seven-year course of study with at
least one teacher to the grade, a minimum
term of eight months, and fulfilling certain
other requirements as to organization and
equipment.

“In the past few years,” the report says,
“there has been a widespread realization of
the vital importance of the elementary school
as the foundation of our educational life.
This desire to give the children a more ef-
fective opportunity for the fundamentals of
an education has concerned itself with such
essential factors as length of term, the size
of the school, the training of teachers, ade-
quate equipment for an enriched course of
study.

The work of visiting the schools and ap-
plying the standards set up was begun in
1924, “At that time,” the report continues,
“there were 270 rural schools which had
seven or more teachers and an eight months’
term. Today, there are 448 rural schools
which meet these two requirements.

“In 1924 there were only 62 large rural
schools in which all teachers had at least
one year of colege or normal training, but
this year, 1929-1930, we find that 406 rural
schools employ teachers with the required
training.”

The art of the lover consists not in loy-
ing but in showing his love to the hest
advantage.—Boreham.

Scabbard and Blade
Initiation

The following men were formally
admitted to the national R. O. T. C.
officers’ fraternity, Scabbard and
Blade, Monday evening: Captains
J. F. Preston, H. S. Covington, R.
D. Russell, J. W. McCutchan, and
F. M. Cochran, captain infantry,
U. S. A; first lieutenants, J. L.
Brock, C. A. Sission, and A. R.
Jackson.
The ceremony took place at 7:30

the dome room of Chambers.
Many of the members residing in
Davidson were present. Following
the initiation the members adjourn-

ed to the Scabbard and Blade Hall.

Tokio, Japan—(IP)—Adoption of the Ro-
man alphabet for the Japanese language is
being predicted here by educational leaders,
although it is recognized that the present
Chinese characters will be retained for “lit-
erary and historical purposes.

As a move in this direction, it is pointed
out, every. high school in Japan now teaches
English, even in the rural districts, and
school attendance is compulsory for children
until they attain the age of 14 years. Thus
within a generation, practically the entire
population will have learned the Roman
alphabet, and its application to the native
language will be only a matter of course.

Warsaw—(1IP)—Polish law now provides
that private schools where the language is
other than Polish may be opened provided
Polish also is taught in the school. State
elementary schools in sections with other
nationalities may teach the language of that
nationality.

Every college game that becomes a spec-
tacle deteriorates—"Dr. Frank Aydelotte,
President of Swarthmore College.

Giving me this cup, you have turned a
loser into a winner in a most remarkable
way.—Sir Thomas Lipton.

Dr. J. W. McConnell Will

Attend Two Conventions

To Attend Medical Congress in
Chicago, and Child Health
Conference in Washington

On February 16, 17, and 18, Dr. John
W. McConnell, local Davidson College phy-
sician, will attend the annual Congress on
Medical Education, Medical Licensure, and
Hospitals, which is to be held in Chicago.
This congress is held under the auspices
of the American Medical Association.

Dr. McConnell, who is vice-president of
that branch of the congress known as the
Federation of State Medical Boards of the
UL. S., will preside as toastmaster at a ban-
quet of this congress on Tuesday, February
17, which will have as its chief speaker
Charles B. Pinkham, of Sacramento, Calif.
This banquet will be preceded by a ban-
quet on Monday the 16th, which will have
toastmaster the Hon. Ray Lyman

as its
Wilbur.

Recently Dr. McConnell also received an
invitation from President Hoover to attend
the meeting of the Section on Medical Serv-
of the White House Conference
Child Health and Protection. This meeting
will be held in Washington, D. C., from
February 19 to 21, It is expected that Dr.
McConnell will proceed, immediately from
the convention in Chicago to the one in
Washington City.

ices on

CAPT, COCHRAN TALKS

(Continued from page 1)
course of the address, the history of Ameri-
can occupation was traced from Dewey's
victory to Aguinaldo rebellion and_ finally
to the beginning of peace and progress, for
which Taft and General Wood were espe-
cially praised.

In closing, Captain Cochran displayed his
valuable collection of Philippine novelties,
including head knives, swords and specimens
of native brass work, An unusual number
of members were present to hear the ad-
dress,

Election of new officers is scheduled for
the next meeting. At present Dr. Lyons is
club president.

Small Fire Ignites
On Thompson’s Roof

A great deal of furore and excitement
was raised on the campus last Friday after-
noon at about 5 o’clock when the fire siren
went into action. The “fire” was located at
Thompson's boarding house where it seems
that sparks from a chimney had ignited
some dry leaves which lay in the roof gut-
ter,

No damage whatsoever was done, since the
flames were extinguished before they had
even charred the damp roof. It was at first
thought that the smoke which appeared in
the gutter came from ‘a serious fire in the
house, hence the alarm, Several hundred
would-be firemen rushed valiantly to the
scene of action, bearing all sorts of extin-
guishing apparatus, © including chemical
equipment, axes, ladders, etc., only to dis-
cover that the alarm was false.

Cambridge, Mass.—(1P)—The — sudden
death of Dr, Edward Channing has brought
to an end the work of this country’s out-
standing historian, who was engaged at his
death in completing the seventh volume of
the most extensive American history ever
written.

Listen, O my son, and treat thy book-
seller as thy best friend and he will repay
thee beyond the miser’s fondest dreams of

unearned increment.—Van Loon.
Freshman Scoring
Field Foul Total
Players Goals Goals Points
Evans, f _ 14 9 37
Rowan, c -_--- 8 1 17
Lafferty, f _-.- 4 3 11
Holland, c __.. 3 4 10
Morris, g -_--- 4 2 10
Halverstadt, g 3 0 6
Manson, g _--- 2 2 6
McLean, f __._ 0 1 1
Motalsyesssce 38 22 98

© 1931, Liocerr & Myzzs Tosacco Co,

Which is the longer of these two
horizontal lines? If you know the
answer —try it on someone else.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOu

BUT

MILDER...anoD
BETTER TASTE

YOUR TASTE /e//s the Truth/

| ,

