ATTEND THE 5 ¢ NTO
fot Sth at ig Davids onan See
.M. CONFERENCE IN
THURSDAY NIGHT CHATTANOOGA
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 5, 1931 No. 17

Conference on Missions
of World to be Held in

Chattanooga, Tennessee

This. Congress Will Mark Epoch in
Missionary Work of Southern
Presbyterian Church

IS BIG ADVANCEMENT

Will Be Delegation of Ministers,
Laymen, and Students

Beginning on Monday, February 16, and
ending on Thursday, February 19, there will
be held at Chattanooga, Tenn., a congress
on world missions. This conference will
mark an epoch in the mission work of the
Southern Presbyterian Church, and it is the
biggest step forward ever taken by this
church on the subject.

The congress will be widely represented
by some 5,000 delegates, it has been esti-
mated. These will include ministers, laymen,
students, “and delegations from all the
churches of the Southern Presbyterian
Church. Also the entire student bodies of
our seminaries, as well as the entire stu-

dent body of the Assembly’s Training School
will be there.

Speaking at the congress will be some of
the leading men in the Presbyterian Church.
Dr. Robert E. Speer, Secretary of the For-
eign Mission Board of the Presbyterian
Church, U. S. A.; Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer,
who occupies the chair of missions at Prince-
ton Seminary; Dr. Mark A. Matthews, pas-
tor of the First Presbyterian Church in
Seattle, Wash., which is the largest Pres-
byterian Church in the world; and Bishop
W. N. Ainsworth will be among the speak-
ers. Mr. Homer Hammontree, an outstand-
ing leader of evangelistic singing, will be
song leader, assisted by a quartet anda
chorus choir.

In the past year six commissions have heen
appointed to go over the situation and make
a report of their findings to this conference.
These commissions are working on the fol-
lowing subjects: Christianity and the non-
Christian Religions, with Dr. W. L. Lingle
as chairman; The Foreign Field—Our Mis-
sionary Responsibility, with Dr. Donald
Richardson as chairman; The Church at
Home—How Can It Meet This Responsibil-

(Continued on page 5)

Music Department
Arranges Program

Wednesday evening, February 4, a large
number of Davidson students, faculty, and
townspeople will occupy a block of seats at
the Charlotte Armory to hear the interna-
tionally-famed negro tenor, Roland Hayes.

Tuesday evening,’ February 17, Henry F.
Seibert, distinguished concert organist, and
organis tof New York City Town Hall,
where he is now appearing in weekly re-
citals, will give a concert in the Chambers
Auditorium on the magnificent Skinner or-
gan recently installed in this building as a
gift from the wife of Senator Cameron Mor-
rison. Mr. Seibert is also a popular radio
artist, broadcasting regularly over WEAF
and other networks. His program will no
doubt have a varied selection and appeal.

On Tuesday, March 10, the famous Hamp-
ton Quartet, of Hampton Institute, will give
a program of negro spirituals, sung in the
most authentic manner as few but Hampton
singers can do. The Hampton singers are
at present making a tour of all the large
cities. This week they are singing in New
York under their famous director and com-
poser, Nathaniel Dett. While Davidson will
not be privileged to/hear the full organiza-

._ tion, the quartet will give the type of pro-
gram that has a peculiar appeal of its own.

Beginning Thursday afternoon, February
12, at 5 o'clock, a series of short recitals
open to the public will be given in Cham-
bers Auditorium. For the most part local tal-
ent will appear. The Steinway Duo-Art will
also be used to bring some of the great
piano works, played by eminent artists, to
all those interested.

Early in March the Davidson musical
clubs will give their annual spring concert.

Dr. Landrith Speaks Four Promotions Made
Here on Prohibition) in R.0.T.C. Batallion

——— | °

“Legalized liquor traffic must disappear | Officers, Ruck, Bird, McCutchan and
from God’s earth if this is to be God’s| Kraemer Promoted to Next ,
earth,” declared Dr. Ira A. Landrith, for- | Highest Rank
mer president of Ward Belmont College ———
and now an international leader in the Chris-

Cadet Major Dean Rusk, of Atlanta, Ga.,

tian Endeavor movement, in.speaking to Da- | commander of the Davidson College R. O.
vidson College students at chapel exercises) T, C. battalion, has been promoted to the

here January 28, 1931, This is the third! rank of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel and Bat-

visit that Dr. Landrith has made Davidson |
in as many years, and the subject for the |
speech that he made this time, had he!
chosen a subject, would have been “Living |
in God’s World.” The manner in which he
combined humor with his serious thoughts
made this address both entertaining and
worth-while,

The speaker, who was at one time the vice-
presidential candidate for the United States
on the prohibition ticket, abhorred the con-
tentions of the people nowadays who main-
tain that there is more liquor in America
now than there was before the Eighteenth
Amendment was passed. ‘Who says so?” he
asked, and immediately answered it, ‘The |

wets.” He further explained this point by |
showing the decrease of drunkenness on the
streets and in public places.

Dr.. Landrith said that the abolition of
legalized traffic occurred only 11 years ago,
and he said that he thought that it was doing
pretty well in its childhood. “The wets said
that we couldn't get it,’ he continued, “and
they still maintain that a repeal of the
amendment is inevitable. A recent  state-
ment was made that by 1933 it would be
repealed, but I am inclined to agree with
Arthur Brisbane, as much as we disagree on
some subjects, because he says that the
Eighteenth Amendment. won’t be repealed
during the lifetime of generations unborn.”

The speaker spoke humorously of the con-
tention of women that they had been respon-
sible for the Eighteenth Amendment. “That's
not true,” he said. “The granting of. woman
suffrage was the Nineteenth Amendment.
We men beat you to it by arithmetic and)
history. We cleaned house first and then
gave you the mop, and now if you can’t keep
it cleaned, get out.”

Davidson students were urged to adopt,a |
moral specialty by cleaning America and
keeping it clean. “If you’re going to run the
world, do it right, for we of the passing
generation did pretty well before you ar-
rived. Reduce your chest measure because |
you are heirs to 6,000 years and what are
you going to do to make this world better?
In this twentieth century we are not going
to forgive the unclean life of college stu-
dents, and some fact recalled to some man’s
mind about some questionable feature of
your college career may result in serious
hindrances to your future progress.”

In closing, Dr. Landrith urged his hear-
ers to make America a fit place in which
to rear churches, schools, homes, and char-
acter.

Dr. Wertenbaker to
Lecture Here Soon

On the night of February 9, Dr. Thomas
Jefferson Wertenbaker will give a lecture
in the Chambers Auditorium to the faculty
and students. Dr. Wertenbaker attended the
University of Virginia, where he received
his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees. . Since
1905 he has been engaged in teaching and
newspaper work. At the -present he is Ed-
wards Professor of American History at
Princeton University. The speaker is also a
renowned author, having written several his-
torical books on Virginia and other parts
of the world.

This lecture will be the third of the lec-
tures presented by the faculty committee
on lectures. The committee feels that they
are particularly fortunate in having a speak-
er such as Dr. Wertenbaker, as he is very
much: in demand. In April he sails for Eu-
rope, where he will deliver a course of lec-
tures at Gottingen University.

The lecture will be a public one and not
only are the faculty and.students urged to
attend, but also the townspeople.

talion’ Commander, and three other Senior
cadet officers of the Davidson R. O. T. C.
department have also been advanced in
grade, according to a special order from
the professor of military science and tactics
read at a recent parade of the battalion.
These promotions are to take place at once.

Other promotions filled the place left
vacant by Rusk. Cadet Captain A. R. Bird,
Jr., of Washington, D. C., who has been
in command of Company A, was advanced
to the position of Cadet Major and battalion
executive officer, to fill the place of Rusk.
Cadet First Lieutenant J. W. McCutchan,
of Warm Springs, Va. was made Cadet
Captain. and commander of Company A,

!and Cadet Second Lieutenant Kraemer, of

Bonham, Texas, was made Cadet First Lieu-
tenant.

These promotions are in line of customs
of the military science department of David-
son which advances the commanding officer
of the battalion to the rank of Cadet Lieu-
tenant-Colonel at the beginning of the sec-
ond semester of the college year. Rusk’s pro-
motion only adds to his long series of honors
gained at Davidson, the most recent being
hts’ selection as a Rhodes scholar.

at Faculty Meeting

Davidson’s Quadwranglers met in their
monthly club meeting last Friday evening at
7:30. The club has its own club room in
Chambers.

The speaker of the evening was Captain
Cochran, new associate professor of military
science. )As his subject, Captain Cochran
used the general theme of the “Philippines,”
having recently returned from Philippine
service. He began «with a ‘description of
the route usually taken to reach America's
outpost in the Orient. This included a trip
through the Panama Canal and a stop-over
in the Hawaiian Islands.

Captain Cochran then described the geo-
graphical features of the Philippine Islands,
their volcanoes and luxurious vegetation, and
their tropical climate. The population of
the Philippines is a mixture of many races,
including some 6,000 Americans. In the

(Continued on page 5)

Medical Exam to Be
Given

It will be of interest to Davidson
pre-medical students to learn that
on Friday, February 13, at 3:30 p.
m., a medical adaptability test will
be given to all students throughout
the country who are taking pre-
medical courses secondary
schools, and who expect to enter
medical schools next year.

According to Mr. Hengeveld, Col-
lege Registrar, these tests will be
given at the appointed time by each
secondary school, to its pre-medical
students, and the papers, ungraded,
will be forwarded to the secretary
of the American Medical Associa-
tion, which is giving the test. The
Association, in turn, will grade all
the papers, and furnish any and all
medical schools in the country with
the grades of the prospective appli-
cants.

After this year the medical col-
leges of the country will require a
passing grade on this test of every
candidate for admission; so that any
present pre-medical students who
intend to enter such institution next
year, must not only stand the test
to be given on February 13th, but
must make a passing grade.

Seniors Give Views
in Literary Survey

One section of the Senior questionnaire
which was held some time ago endeavored to
ascertain the most popular author of litera-
ture, fiction, poetry, plays, and essays. Then
it attempted to find the most popular book,
poem, and play. Another question had to
do with which magazines were read the
most, and which were the favorite ones.
Finally there was a question which dealt
with which newspaper was the favorite one
among the students.

From the questionnaire Poe holds a dis-
tinct position in the literary considerations
of the Seniors, for he was given first place
as author of literature, third place as author
of fiction, and several of his poems were
given votes as most popular. The balloting
for the most favorite author of literature
was as follows: Poe, 11; Shakespeare, 11;
Kipling, 5; Hugo, 3; Dumas, 3; Dickens,
2; Cooper, 2, and Sinclair Lewis, 2, There
were votes cast for 10 others, among them
eight Englishmen, one Greek, and one Rus-
sian.

Zane Grey commands the first place as
favorite author of fiction with Van Dine
and Oppenheim being second and_ third,
showing that their mystery stories have an
appeal. The vote was: Zane Grey, 11; Van
Dine, 6; Oppenheim, 2; Poe, 2; Hugo, 2;
H. B. Wright, 2; and C. B. Kelland, 2.
There were 22 others, including 11 Ameri-
can, four English, three French, two Span-
ish, one Russian, and one Pole.

The vote for favorite poet was: Poe, 19;
Browning, 9; Tennyson, 7; Longfellow, 5;
Kipling, 2; Byron, 2, and Homer, 2. Fif-
teen others were given votes: nine English,
five Americans, and one French.

Shakespeare, of course, tops the dramatists :
Shapespeare, 36; O'Neil, 5; with each of the
following getting one vote: Moliere, Rost-
and, Wilde, Connelly, Ibsen, Mackaye,
Aeschylus, Marlowe, and Shaw.

In the vote for favorite essayist, limer-
son was given first place, and two stuck up
for Dorothy Dix. The votes were as follows :
Emerson, 20; Bacon, 4; Lamb, 4; Stevenson,

(Continued on page 6)

Radio Club Here is
Active Organization

The Radio Club has, for several years,
been one of the most active organizations on
the campus. This year it is well organized
with a membership of about twelve. It meets
twice a month with an interesting and very
instructive program. There is usually a lec-
ture by one of the members on some inter-
esting subject directly connected with radio,
and a general discussion on current radio
problems. Three members of the. Davidson
faculty are members of the Radio Club.
These are Dr. J. M. Douglas and Professors
H. E. Fulcher and T. E. Lothery.

With the installment of new equipment,
the Davidson Radio Club has brought itself
up to the par of most amateur stations. One
of the most interesting events on the sta-
tion’s schedule is a connection made by Ed
Bettis with a station operated by his cousin
in Morristown, Tenn. He makes this con-
nection about twice a week, at which. time
he usually talks to his mother or other
members of his ‘family, in short wave code.

One day the Radio Club received a let-
ter from McCarty, who graduated from Da-
vidson in 1929, and who was the first presi-

| dent of the Radio Club. In it he stated

that while acting as commercial operator
on a steamship then in Holland, he had heard
the Morristown station talking to Davidson,
but that he had been unable to pick up the
Davidson station. This was because of a
difference in wave length. While at David-
son McCarty did much for the club, and has
since then been very interested in radio and
its progress. At present, however, he is not
engaged in radio work, but is living at
Highlands.

The officers of the club are David Cald-
well, president; Frank Wilson, vice-presi-
dent, and Frank Rollins, secretary. One of
the most active and interested members is
Ed Bettis, who could well be called presi-
dent-emeritus.

Doctor J. H. Henderlite
of Gastonia Gives Talk
at Vespers on Fidelity

Aristarchus Cited as Servant of God
and as Constant Associate of Paul

WAS GOOD COMPANY

Violin Duet Given by Robert Orr
and Horace Ervin

At a well attended vesper service, Feb-
ruary 1, Dr. J. H. Henderlite, of Gastonia,
delivered an address in which he brought
out the characteristic of fidelity as found
in the man Aristarchus. His name is found
in the second verse of the 27th chapter of
Acts as well as other places, and he is al-
ways associated with Paul in his work. In
the former, it is written that he was “a
Macedonian of Thessalonica.”

Aristarchus is called “the good compan-
ion” by John A. Hutton, but the speaker
declared that he liked to think of him as
“the man who faithful—the man who
is obscurely faithful.” Thus as much as Paul
was in the limelight in Acts, so was this
Macedonian in the background at all times.
He was always there as a companion of
Paul and as a servant of God. It is for this
reason that we are just a little bit surer
of his fidelity than we are of many of the
outstanding characters of the New Testa-
ment.

is

Dr. Henderlite then urged his listeners
to analyze with him the true character of
Aristarchus. There are. three tendencies
present in every man: “inward, outward,
and upward.” “Let us think of Aristarchus
in these lights,” he said. First of all, the
man was not ashamed of himself. He was
true to himself because he knew positively
that he had done his duty. “Duty is one of
the strongest words in the English language”
and it covers a multitude of good points in
a man when _ properly performed,

“Outwardly, in his relations toward other
men, we do not find a better living example
of Christ-likeness. Paul could always count
on him. Great men are made great by the
sincerity of the men they depend upon. Here,
the speakér illustrated his point. “The quo-
tation, ‘The history of a nation is written
in the lives of its great men,’ is true and
not true,” he explained, The fact that the
obscurely faithful ones are the direct cause
greatness is demonstrated time
(Continued on page 6)

of others’

Senior House Party
To Be Held Feb. 21

According to advance information, the
Senior house party, an annual affair of un-
usual interest, will take place on Saturday
evening, February 21, in Chambers Build-
ing. These functions have been held each
spring for the last three years by the fac-
ulty and Senior Glass with greatest success,
and the program for this year promises to
be no exception to the rule.

The general scheme, in keeping with the
date (Feb. 22), will that of colonial
times, with decorations commemorative of
the time of George Washington, and colonial
costumes will be donned by the attending
members of the faculty. :

“Southern Syncopation,” a musical com-
edy of the nature implied by the title, will
constitute one of the outstanding features
of the histrionic part of the program. Fur-
ther details of the nature of the evening’s
entertainment will be given at a later date.

Several committees and sub-committees
have been appointed, and enthusiastic work
is going forward. The faculty members have
made arrangements to entertain the week-
end guests of the Seniors, and present indi-
cations are that most of the Seniors have
invited girls up for the occasion.

The Senior house party has become an
annual event, and is rapidly becoming a real
Davidson tradition. Much gratification has
been manifested over the success of these
entertainments in the past, and according to
several who are in a position to know, the
coming program holds a real treat in store
for those that attend.

be
