2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
Die GRIBKe MAR LIN icnxsddbsccssccccauascccaccueks Editor-in-Chief
Seat I GONWAY Gabeatonascksbcbisssusbes cduucs, Business Manager
P EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT...-......-...... ---Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE......--. getty csccaccsusauccue Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE...---. Managing itor
Ck Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG......--. -Athletic Editor
D, G. STEPHENSO Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN. Feature itor
FAS Wt ate VN Ses doteuscasdwekdasscccaccneccncuaases Review Editor
} bag 7) 4 a -Exchange Editor
. C. DWELLE, J .-Associate Editor
W. S. Awerss cece .-Associate Editor
W. H. -Associate tor
BUSINESS STAFF

Di As DBUANBON dccccccccccacsenced Assistant Business Manager
ASI MODAN Hiccscccccsccesecccen Assistant Business Manager
wy WHI DI Dc ccccccccccckccess Assistant Business Manager
POR MORROW doccanvecccasseusisescupoe Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON Solicitor
}: F, NEAL..... Solicitor
. B. WOOTTON Solicitor
AS SHO MANS ONeansacucsuspesacsusnnuouusossuunacos Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WHITEHEAD

. LAKE
RUM UM UI SSiepsckcscscscoccucccceeeouse

=

a>
Tin

R. H. ALDERMAN F,; H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E, BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

f E, BOYD E. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R,. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A, F, SCHENCK

O. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, JR. W. T.._ THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

NOVEMBER 11, 1931

Experience kecps a dear school, but fools will
learn in no other —Benjamin Franklin.

PARAGRAPHICS

The record of the present football season is very
good. Victories over Carolina and Wake Forest would
make it well-nigh perfect.

TENGE yan ona

Those who attended the lecture by Mr. Booth Fri-
day night received a very interesting insight on the
policies of Great Britain in regard to other nations.

EE

The closing of the dormitories during the football
games is a wise move in view of the protection it
gives to the property of the students.

Caney pe

The faculty has made it possible for those who so -

desire to go to the game at Chapel Hill Saturday. It
is to be hoped that a large number of the students
will take advantage of this opportunity.

Se SAC aa
It was shown Saturday night in Charlotte that the

“Sunnyland Serenaders” have developed into an ex-
traordinarily good college orchestra.
——D
We would like to congratulate The Citadel on hav-
ing a fighting football team. Despite the fact that they
were on the tail-end of a 14-7 score they offered a
scrapping offense. which gave quite a scare to David-
son supporters.

Sey ) ee

Now that the Davidson-Charlotte controversy, if it
may be called that, has been very definitely concluded
to the satisfaction of everyone concerned, it seems
that the normal conditions of peace and good-will
which have existed, with few exceptions, in past
years, may be resumed.

SERS ESET , yo tn ci
SERVICE

There are a great many services which the Y.
M. C, A. performs on the Davidson campus.
Many of them are evident in our everyday life;
still others, though not so evident, are none the
less valuable. This organization is primarily for
the purpose of promoting the religious life of the
men in the student body. Various methods are
used in this work.

Perhaps most influential of all these ways are
the Fall and Spring services which are conducted
every year by the “Y.” Davidson, in its position
as one of the leading Presbyterian schools in the
country, is able to secure for these semi-annual
services the choice of the speakers of the Presby-
terian Church, To support this fact we have only
to look into the past. Such men as Dr. Thompson,
of Richmond; Dr. Bill Anderson, of Dallas; Dr,
Ben Lacy, of Union Theological Seminary; Dr,
Sam Glasgow, of Knoxville; Dr. Myers, of
Greensboro, and others of the same high rank,
demonstrate how successful the Y. M..C. A. has
been in the past.

This year is certainly no exception to the rule.
Starting Tuesday morning, Dr. Robert W. Miles,
of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of
Lynchburg, Va., delivers the first address of the
Fall services. Dr. Miles is a graduate of David-
son and was the first “Y’” Secretary at David-
son. He is a graduate of Union Theological, Sem-
inary, and before going to Lynchburg, was stu-
dent pastor at the Alabama Polytechnic Institute
in Auburn. From such a background Dr. Miles
has acquired an understanding of the life and
problems of the average college man.

We are indeed fortunate in being able to have
‘Dr. Miles as our speaker for the. Fall services.
The Y. M. C. A. wants the entire student body
to receive the benefits from these services, and
urges the attendance of every man.

TOPICS IN BRIEF

Recently Wallace Wade inaugurated a policy of
allowing students of “Big Five” schools to come to
football games at Duke for a very small amount.
Any student was admitted by merely showing his
student athletic ticket and paying fifty cents. This
means that Davidson men can attend a game be-
tween Duke and any other team without the ne-
cessity of paying what, to the college student,
seems an exorbitant price. Although this would
not affect Davidson to any great extent because
of the distance, it seems a good idea, and worthy
of adoption by all “Big Five” schools.

Last year Davidson defeated’ North Carolina
by the small margin of 7-6; later in basketball the
Wildcats succeeded in winning both games, one
by one point and the other by two points. That
means that Carolina is going to be out for revenge,
anxious to regain their former standing of supe-
riority. To make things harder for the ’Cats, the
game is played on a foreign field this year, Thus
it is going to be necessary to fight harder than ever
before, to overcome all these obstacles to victory.
The student body must work with the team with
only one thought in mind: “BEAT CARO-
LINA.”

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

For the benefit of the student body, the exchanges
that are received every week will be placed in the
reading room of the “Y.” This is the room to the
left just as you enter the building.

Up in Meadville, Pennsylvania, at Alleghany College,
the girls are rebelling against the student government
rules, according to The Campus, the official’ newspaper
of that college. The reason for this rebellion is that a
few members of the weaker sex of that school were
campused for being escorted to church by two Freshmen
of the boys’ school. They wish the revision of the rule
which Freshman women

prohibits men accompanying

during the day.

Though probably not known to this student body, the
Citadel Cadets previous to the Stetson game, which was
played the week before our game with the Cadets, always
stood up every minute that the footbal team was in
action. We quote an editorial from The Bulldog, the
newspaper of that school, on “A Tradition Passes.”

“The Stetson game last Saturday witnessed the pass-
ing of an ancient Citadel tradition—the custom of every
cadet standing during an entire football game. The idea
of the. practice was to show the team that the corps
was always solidly behind it and doing all in its power
to help win the game; but there was no room left for
emphasis—if the corps was standing and ‘pulling’ with
all its might when the team was sailing smoothly along
to a victory, then how could it do any more when defeat
seemed to be imminent; when the team really needed
support? In the second place, when a group of average
men are on their feet cheering wildly for the first three
quarters of a game, they are too exhausted in the final
quarter to lend the support that is sometimes needed.
And lastly, on our home field the view of the persons
who sit in the stand next to the corps is spoiled when
the teams are playing on certain corners of the grid-
iron. This last might be thought by some to be a trivial
objection, yet these persons pay their money to see all
of the game and are entitled to enjoy it as comfortably
as possible. 0

“However there are times when we think that the
entire corps should be on its feet yelling like so many
maniacs for the team to win. These times are when the
team is in a tight place, when it needs all possible en-
couragement. Suppose, as a substitute for the old prac-
tice, we allow the cheerleaders to tell us when to sit
and when to stand—and when they tell us to stand, let's
get up and give that team all we have.”

With some pride, The Technique, Georgia Tech’s paper,
announces that their annual, The Blue Print, again wins
the cup for the best annual in its division. This was given
by the National Scholastic Press Association recogniz-
ing their great work in last year’s annual. The Blue Print
got a total of 900 points out of a possible 1,000. This
annual competed with such schools as Notre Dame, which
took second place, and Leland Stanford, which was the
winner of third place. In the girls’ division, the Silhouette,
of Agnes Scott, won the cup, thus making two schools
from the same city quite literary and prominent in this
line.

The Technician, the official paper of North Carolina
State, tells us that Amelia Earhart Putnam, the famous
aviatrix and the only woman who has flown over the
Atlantic in an airplane, spoke to the State College student
body on aviation in general and on autogiros in partic-
ular. She arrived in Raleigh in an autogiro, being the
first person to bring an autogiro to Raleigh. She came
to that city mainly for demonstrating the autogiro and
her visit was sponsored |by the Raleigh Chamber of
Commerce. ;

In the “Y” reading room the students can find
papers from the following schools every week with
probably a few reductions or additions every’ week:
N. C. State, Duke, Guilford, Converse, Georgia Tech,
Emory, Brenau, Alleghany, The Citadel, V. M. I.,
Washington and Lee, Clemson, P. C., Salem, Mary
Baldwin, Tennessee, Auburn, Florida, Gettysburg,
Lenoir-Rhyne, Wesleyan, Georgia State College for
Women, N. C. C. W., and others.

‘

af

DES ENTREFILETS

In the recent elections the Democratic party se-
cured control of the House of Representatives. At
the present the House is composed of 217 Democrats,
215 Republicans, 1 Farmer-Laborite, and there are two

vacancies. One of these vacancies will be filled when.

the Representative for the Fifth District of New Jer-
sey is elected on December 1, just six days before the
new Congress meets. It is very probable that the
new Congressman from New Jersey will be a Re-
publican and since the one Farmer-Labor member
of Congress has a leaning toward the Republican
party, the first meeting, at which the House is organ-
ized, may result in a tie-up between the two parties
in an attempt to control the organization of the
House of Representatives. There is a small group in
the Democratic party who do not wish to assume
the responsibility for the conduct of the affairs of
the House. They contend that with the outlook so
good for the election of a Democrat at the next
Presidential election, it would be a mistake for the
party to put itself in a position of assuming respon-
sibility for legislation which might produce an ad-
verse reaction among the electorate.

At a banquet, at which raw meat was the main dish,
ten thousand warriors celebrated the first anniversary of
the coronation of Emperor Haile Selassie I, “King of
Kings of Ethiopia, Conquering Lion of the Tribe of
Judah, the Elect of God and the Light of the World.”
Following the feast the emperor, accompanied by the
royal family, attended the services at St. George’s Cathe-
dral. Then he rode in state in his golden coach once
owned by former Kaiser Wilhelm to the chambers of the
Legislature and there formally opened the two bodies.
The celebration wound up with a display of American
fireworks,

According to Dean Inge of St. Paul’s Cathedral, in
an address at University College of North Wales, the
British Empire is nearing its end.

“The profligate expenditures of the World War,

followed by a kind of government I will not criticize, ,

has reduced the richest nation of the world to the
verge of bankruptcy and deep humiliation. Although
I don’t wish to take a pessimistic view altogether, |
am afraid our part as a world power is approaching
its end... . I think our empire, in the old sense, is
coming to an end, but our race is not, and what is
worth keeping is in our own hands, especially in the
hands of the younger generation, to make or mar.”

The question of whether Gandhi. would wear his loin
cloth and shawl or European dress when he called upon
King George was settled last Thursday when the Ma-
hatma arrived at the king’s afternoon party dressed in
his usual costume. Gandhi arrived rather late at the pal-
ace where five hundred guests of India’s’ King and Em-
peror were gathered. He met the king and talked several
minutes with him, Gandhi declined to tell what the king
had told him. “It would not be dignified,” he said after-
ward. The Mahatma left the party early; in all, his visit
lasted only thirty-five minutes.

Gandhi said, “The King and Queen were most friendly
and gracious. I also liked the Prince of Wales.’’ When
asked if the king had given any encouragement to his
hope of Indian independence, the Mahatma said, “Only
God gives encouragement, not kings.”

The charge made recently by William H. Gardiner,
‘president of the Navy League, that the President's
ignorance of why navies are maintained was “abys-
mal” and that his efforts “at every turn” were such
as to “restrict, reduce and starve the United States
Navy,” were endorsed recently by the Executive Com-
mittee of the League by a 7 to 1 vote. The dissent-
ing vote was cast by Henry Breckinridge, who was
Assistant Secretary of War under the Wilson admin-
istration of 1913 to 1916. In regard to his negative
vote Mr. Breckinridge said, “I wish to record my
deep conviction that Mr. Gardiner’s statement con-
tained unseemly and unjustified language concerning
the President of the United States, language that’ will
not serve the best interests of the navy or the Navy
League; language that should not be approved by
the Navy League.”

In the new cabinet formed by Prime Minister Mac-
Donald there are eleven Conservatives, five Liberals, and
four National Laborites. The high-tariff Conservatives
hold the key positions but their advantage is partly offset
by the appointment of a Liberal as President of the
Board of Trade. The new cabinet speaks much for

the Prime Minister's ability to balance his strangely as- ; ,

sorted team.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT:
“No Frenchman can live long on British cooking.”
—Secretary of State Simpson.

The Duke Chronicle, of Duke University, informs us
that they are-to have as their golf coach and instructor,
the winner of this year’s North Carolina Open Golf
Tournament, Marshall Crichton, who won the tourna-
ment with a very good score of 301 strokes for the 72-
hole match. Crichton is a professional from Durham. He
will be coach for both the varsity and Freshman teams
and will be the instructor for the physical education stu-
dents electing golf as their sport. This year is the first
time that Duke has had a coach for this sport and much
will be expected from their golf teams this year, since
they have such a fine golfer as coach.

D

“ |, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

e

Cold weather has come. And so has the YOWL. The
depression is one year old, so this issue of the YOWL
is called the Birthday Issue.

By the way, there’s going to be a dance down at the
depot tonight. (The train is going to Charleston.) Catch
on? Well, how far did you ride?

Rumple Repartee
(Him No. 1): “I think she’s as pretty as she can

be.”
(Him No. 2): “Most girls are.”

Here’s one for Mr. Ripley. The roommate and I have
finished Davidson College. Yet he is in his Senior, and
I in my Junior year. (We painted “Davidson College”
on top of Chambers, and we just finished “College” a
week ago.) TWO BOYS FINISH COLLEGE IN TWO
WEEKS!

We feel that we have added color to Davidson Col-
lege. What color? Why, Gold and Black. (But don’t ex-
claim—you might Wake Forest!’

Davidson’s motto at the Wildcat-Bulldog fray
seemed to be: THEY SHALL NOT PASS!

I just made a tall guy short.
Yeah?

I borrowed five smackers from him.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

When you sit with a nice girl for two hours, you
think it is only a minute, but when you sit on a
hot stove for a minute, you think it is two hours.
That is relativity!—Albert Einstein.

Today’s Best One On the Irish

“See here, Mr. Casey,” said Pat to the tax assessor,
“Shore and you know the goat isn’t worth eight dollars.”

“Oi’m sorry,” responded Casey, “but that is the law.”
And, producing a book, he read the following passage:

“All property abutting on Front Street should be taxed
at the rate of two dollars per foot.”

A FAST ONE ON OUR-FOOLISH
CONTEMPORARIES

U. N. C. Student (arrested for speeding): But I
am a College Student, Your Honor.
Judge: Well, ignorance is no excuse; lock him up.

PARK, PARK, IT’S A LARK

The Parking Problem
When Noah sailed the waters blue,
He had his troubles, same as you.
For forty days he drove the Ark
Before he found a place to park.

Many a man who is a five ton truck at Davidson, is
nothing but a trailer at Queens.

WHAT'S IN A NAME?

(This poem by any other name would be just as bad)
Of all the bonds that join mankind,

That make a Pythias and. Damon,

There’s one especially designed

To write enduring friendship’s name on;

When unexpectedly you find

Some chap you only just have met

Smokes the same brand of cigarettes.

Such splendid judgment one esteems,

Yet, when you meet the man in twenty,

Somehow invariably it seems

Of cigarettes you have a plenty.

But life must have its cruel schemes:

YOU MEET WHEN IN A SMOKELESS STATE

THE GUY WHO SMOKES THE KIND YOU
HATE! : '

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

“Dear MIRTHOFANATION,” writes a reader, ‘“ex-
actly what do you mean by ‘hokum’ ?”

“Hokum” is applesauce and applesauce is hooey; hooey
is bologna and bologna is bunk; and bunk, my @ear read-
er, is merely another name for hokum.

Jones was at the student body banquet. He was
shy and nervous, and could never summon up enough
courage to speak because of his inability to say any-
thing neat. All the evening he had been trying to
think up something nice to say to the girl that sat
beside him. At last he thought he saw his chance.

“What a small appetite you have, Mr. Jones,” re-
marked the said lady with a smile.

“To sit next to you,” he replied gallantly, “would
cause any man to lose his appetite.”

Well, Paul Revere, mon petit shoe.
