THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

|

Hundreds Returned to Davidson Last
Saturday for Home-Coming Celebration

Registration Book in Alumni Office
Reveals that Thirteen States and
Forty-Seven Classes Were
Represented

FROM 1875 TO 1933

Every Class From 1892 Through 1933
Had Members Here for the
Occsion

Home-Coming Day of 1931 has come and
gone, and with it came hundreds of Davidson
College alumni, who likewise havé gone back
to their respective places of business or resi-
dence. Another great event in the history of
Davidson has passed, but with its-passing goes
memories, memories of the re-uniting of friends
from widely separated parts of America, mem-
ories of Davidson as she is today, memories
of events planned for the alumni, memories of
‘a football*team that fights with the same fe-
rociousness that has characterized the Wildcat
teams since football had its inception here.

Elsewhere in this issue of The Davidsonian
readers will find accounts of the various affairs,
the athletic events which included cross-coun-
try matches and the great football game, an ac-
count which tells of the gathering in Chambers
Building, when Prof. K: J. Foreman spoke, fol-
lowed by the luncheon, and also an account of
the closing exercise, the stunt night program.

This is a general summary of the event, and
a study of the registration book in the alumni
office last Saturday reveals a number of inter-
esting facts. It shows that 13 states were rep-
resented. This was not the original thirteen
colonies but took in’ a much wider territory
that included the states of North and South
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Tennessee,
Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New
York, Missouri, Kentucky and Arkansas.

The registration also shows that 47 classes
between 1875 and 1933 were represented, and
between the classes of 1892 and 1933 every one
was represented without an interruption. Both
the class and state representation is larger than
usual. To intelligently select the class with the
largest number of members here, it would have
been necessary to make a minute survey of the
stadium on Home-Coming, but offhand it is
believed that the classes of ©1928, 1930 and
1931 would run each other a close race for
first prize in attendance.

No accurate estimate can be given of the at-
tendance, for many who came early failed to
register, and hundreds of others arrived just at
game time, and consequently did not write their
names in the book. Luncheon was served to
approximately 225 alumni and _ their guests,
slightly smaller than last year.

The claim is not being made that the attend-
ance was larger this year than on previous oc-
casions, but alumni officials do contend that de-
tails were worked out better and that the affair
went off smoother than usual.

A. Gerskov — The Tailor

SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 50c Pressed 25c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

+

Y ¢ ‘ony lele Service
forSchool Publications

Pe

Fifty-Three Alumni of

Davidson at Seminaries

Union Seminary Leads With Thirty-
Five—Class of 1929 Has 17 |
Students

Fifty-three Davidson College alumni are now
preparing themselves for the ministry in five
different seminaries, according to a survey which
has just been completed in the alumni office at
Davidson. All but four of these men are study-
ing in the three principal seminaries of the
Southern Presbyterian Church.

Union Seminary at Richmond leads in num-
bers with 35 of the 53 candidates, followed by
Columbia Seminary at Decatur, Ga., with eight.
There are four at Louisville Seminary, while
two northern theological institutions, Westmin-
ster and Princeton, are credited with two each.

The survey shows that the class of 1929 has
the largest number of men studying, its total
being 17, followed closely by 1931 with 14 stu-
dents. Ten different classes have representa-
tives, ranging from the class of 1910 through
that of 1932.

Students at the various seminaries are as fol-
lows:

Union, Richmond, Va., S. F. Blue, 10; J. H.
Townsend, 19; T. A. Freeman, 22; W. W.
White, '26; V. S. Broyles, H. G. Goodykooniz,
and P. F. Jones, all of ’'27; Chas. F. McRae,
J. M. Murchison, and C. K. Poole, all of 28;
A. N. Brown, Jr., Frank Hall, D. F, Heltn, T.
E. Hill, W. E. Hill, Jr., R. W. Kirkpatrick,
A. R. Koop, J. A. Ricks, R. F. Sloop, and R.
F, Whiteley, all.of ’29; E. H. Clarke, F. V.
Poéag, Robert Turner, and J. M. Smith, all of
30; W. P. Boyle, L. F, Cowan, S. W. Du-
Bose, Jr., E. K. Eumurian, J. A. Jones, A. B.
McClure, W. B. McSwain, M. W. Norfleet,
Jr, R. D. Russell, W. G. Sugg, Jr, E. F.
Thompson, and Ferguson Wood, all of ’31, and
M. J. Pilkerton, ’32.

Columbia, Decatur, Ga., J. K. Hand and J.
E. Love, both of ’27; S. H. Long, M. C. Mac-
Queen, E. V. Ramage, and J. W. Melton, Jr.,
all of ’29, and H. EF. Russell and A. M. Warren,
both of ’30.

Louisville, at Louisville, Ky., E. P. Moye,
29; L. L. Barr, Jr., 30, and J. S. Meacham
and Charles Kraemer, both of ’31.

Westminster, Philadelphia, Pa., J. F. Moore,
26, and R. H. McIlwaine, ’27.

Princeton, at Princeton, N. J., R. C. Grady
and W. E. Phifer, Jr., both of '29,

An outsider, who is not an alumnus of Da-
vidson, has expressed_amazement at the loyalty
of the Davidson alumni, as shown by their re-
turn from far-away points on Home-Coming
Day, and their expressions of love for the in-
stitution while here.

J. W. Moore, Jr., ’30, who is connected with

transferred from Rock Hill, S. C., to Mem-
phis, Tenn.

Zeb A. Morris, Jr., ’25, was this. summer
unanimously re-lected city attorney of Concord
by the board of aldermen of that city.

the Equitable Life Insurance Society, has been|’

ODDS AND ENDS
About
HOME-COMING

Dr. S. B. Sherard, of Gaffney, S. C., 1901
Davidson graduate and manager of the football
team that defeated Georgia Tech, 33 to 6, in
1900, is going to send the football used in that
game to the alumni office. Dr. Sherard was at
Davidson Saturday, and told about the recent
discovery of this prized possession. On it, he
said, are the names of the players and the
scores of that season. This football is expected
soon, and will be added to the collection that
was started in 1926. The victory football used
against the University of North Carolina in
1910, score 6 to 0, was obtained last fall. Sev-
eral alumni have sent in photographs of teams
of long ago, and these treasures are wanted
whenever the alumnus is willing to part with
them.

Davidson was a rendezvous for brides and
grooms last Saturday. It is understood that a
couple is considered a bride and groom for a
period of a year, and taking that as a guide,
eleven brides and grooms, and possibly more,
visited Davidson on Home-Coming,. All of these,
with the exception of one, were married since
June, and the most recently married visitors
went through the ceremony two days before
Home-Coming. A special row in the stadium
was reserved for the newlyweds, though less
than half of them obtained seats there.

Two representatives of the Duke alumni office
were at Davidson last Saturday, and after the
football game they came by the alumni office
here to express their opinion regarding the
Davidson Home-Coming. Among other things,
they complimented the luncheon served the
alumni. Their compliments were supplemented
by numerous others from the alumni.

When asked to give the date of his last visit
to the Davidson campus, one alumnus said that
he could not remember when he had been here.
Several who live within the radius of a hun-
dred and fifty miles returned for the first time
in over 15 years. Each year the registration
books have shown several who visited Davidson
after a long absence, but it is but a matter of
time until all will register that their absence
has been short.

Exactly 83 reservations were made for the
alumni luncheon last Saturday, and approxi-
mately 225 were served. If any alumnus can
suggest a means of getting alumni to notify
officials here of their intention to attend lunch-
eons, file it immediately. Special consideration
will be given your suggestion. The following
scheme is now followed: If 75 reservations are
made, preparations are made for 200; if 100
notices arrive, 225 are expected at luncheon,
and if 125 come in, 300 can be served.

NOTICE

Have Your Shoes Rebuilt
at the

DAVIDSON SHOE
SHOP
Soles 85c and $1.00

Give us a trial
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

Etc.
Nothing too large

llege
Printin iz

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
Engraved Cards and Invitations.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
600 Square Feet of

or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

oe

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Davidson alumni in the ministry who have
recently changed their residences include Rev.
W. H. DuBose, ’04, from Johnson City, Tenn.,
to Government Street Presbyterian Church,
Mobile, Ala.; Rev. T. M. Stevenson, ’27, from
Kershaw, S. C., to Craigsville, Va.; Rev. E. C.
Murray, Jr., ’14, from Mexico, to 512 W. 122nd
St, New York, N. Y., and Rey. S. F. Bryant,
'25, from Okalona, Miss., to ‘First Presby-
terian Church, Helena, Ark.

Capt. Geo. H. Weems, head of the R. O.
T. C. at Davdison, 1923-1927, and who claims
that he is an alumnus of ’27, has been trans-
ferred from Langley Field, Va. to Maxwell
Field, Montgomery, Ala:

Several newspapers of the state this summer
devoted several columns to a feature article
about Hon. W. F. Carter, ’76, of Mount Airy,
who has practiced law in that section for over
half a century, and has had considerable to do
with its development.

Dr. Marvin A. Lackey, ’15, who has been
surgeon at the Lowrance Hospital in Moores-
ville, has accepted a position with a High Point
hospital, where he will go within a few weeks.
He has been located at Mooresville for seven
years.

Chas, A. Cannon, ’15, of Concord, has been
elected a director of the New York Life In-
surance Company, filling the vacancy caused
by the death of former Governor Richard I.
Manning of South Carolina.

T. R. Nunan, ’30, student at Columbia The-
ological Seminary last year, is now teaching at
Crossnore.

M. M. Grey, ’07, of Charlotte, was elected
last summer for. another term as the Mecklen-
burg County Superintendent of Welfare. He
has been serving in this capacity for many

years,

Ben A. Wilson, ’28, who is connected with
Haskins & Sells, of New York, has been award-
ed the Elijah Watt Sells scholarship at New
York University School of Commerce, Accounts
and Finance for.the coming year. This scholar-
ship fund was established in 1924 as a memorial
to Mr. Sells.

Chas. J. Albright, ’29, medical student at
the University of Virginia the past two years,
has transferred to the University of Pennsyl-
vania, and is at 4001 Pine St., Philadelphia, Pa.

H. Y. Harper, ’29, medical student at Van-
derbilt University for two years, has transferred
to University of Louisville Medical School, and
is at the Alpha Kappa Kappa house, Louis-
ville, Ky.

John M. Andrew, ’28, and Paul R. Maulden,
'28, will this year conclude their medical studies
at New York University, and are staying at
424 7th Ave., New York.

C. P. Greyer, ’30, formerly of Morganton,
is now connected with the Berkely Hotel at
Martinsburg, W. Va.

It is understood here that J. M. Black, 18,
and A. R. (Buck) Flowers, ’29, who do con-
siderable officiating in the Southern Confer-
ence, have been selected as some of the offi-
cials to work the game when the University of
Georgia goes to California in December.

W. J. Roddey, Jr., 14, this summer won the
tennis championship of the city of Columbia,
South Carolina. ae

D. E. Yow, %o, student at Jefferson Medical
Scheol last year, transferred this fall to Wake
Forest’s Medical School. :

Albert F. Simpson, ’25, is head coach of Rich-
mond Military Academy at Augusta, Ga.

John D. Wylie, ’12, was recently admitted
to the bar in South Carolina, and will prac-
tice law in Lancaster, S. C.

Joe H. Miller, ’19, with the Equitable Life
Insurance Society, this summer transferred his
headquarters from Charleston, S. C., to Colum-
bia, and is at 502 Central Union Building.

W. T. Spencer, ’26, is president of the Civ-
itan Club at Gastonia. He was formerly vice-
president of the club. Hugh A. Query, ’09,
editor of The Gazette, was made one of the
directors.

Chas. F. Ritchie, ’30, is coaching and teach-
ing at Troy (N. C.) high school.

to choose from.

can be done.

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be
Shorts in a variety that! will make

All at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
— {
SULA AAA

* o"
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.
a° *,
NN

imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and

it easy for the most fastidious
