THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

§

Washington Alumni Met
Thursday Night at an
Enthusiastic Banquet

Officials in Washington Describe

Meeting As One of the Best
Since the Club Was Organized

WANT FOOTBALL GAME

Resolution Passed That the Secre-
tary Get in Touch With Univer-
sity of Maryland

Reports from alumni in Washington on the
annual dinner-meeting of Davidson alumni
residing in and near that city indicate that
the affair of last Thursday night at the
Racquet Club was one of the best staged
since the chapter was organized in the spring
of 1928, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson, was guest and principal speaker.

Officers elected for the ensuing year were
W. A. Elliott, ’09, president; Dr. C. A.
Cornelson, '04, vice-president; and J. A.
Thames, '18, was re-elected secretary. The
chapter also decided to hold thei? next meet-
ing the first week in Septembdr, after}
Labor Day.

To quote from the report received, the fol-
lowing will give an idea of the matters dis-
cussed and business transacted :

“Dr. Lingle told of the college finances,
addition to the library in the way of books
through the Carnegie Foundation, new
shelves, etc., and touched on other matters,
like athletics, ‘help for students, the dancing
problem, and others. There was a good deal
of discussion on the latter, and also on the
question of military training.

“No resolutions were passed, except one,
that the secretary get in touch with the ath-
letic authorities of the University, of Mary-
land, with a view’ of getting a football game
with them, either in Coilege Park, Md., or
Washington; and also contact the Baltimore
chapter with a view of enlisting their co-
operation in this.”

The letter also told that Congressmen J.
Bayard Clarke, ’05, and Hinton James, ’06,
‘found it impossible to come at the last min-
ute; that Congressman H. F. Stevenson, ’85,
was in South Carolina because of the serious
illness of his wife, and that Senator Mor-
rison, honorary alumnus, had a previous en-
gagement. Rev. A. R. Bird came by after
the dinner and made a few general remarks.

Alumni attending were A. R. Dorroh, ’94;
Dr. C. A. Cornelson, 04; W. A. Elliott, 09;
J. A. Thames, '18; J. F. McClerkin, ’21;
H. M. Morris, ’23; C. L. Bragaw, ’26; J. A.
King, ’27; John R. Falls, ’28, and W. W.
Harrison, Jr., ’30, all of Washington; Harold
C. Smith, 14, Rockville, Md.; F. C. Thames,
'23, Indian Head, Md.; A. C. Slaymaker, ’27,
Alexandria, Va., and F. DéWolfe Miller,
30, Warrenton, Va.

W. R. Sparrow, ’27, formerly in the cot-
ton business at Gastonia, has now become
the agent of the Gulf Refining Company,
with two counties as territory. He will main-
tain headquarters in Gastonia.

The United States of Europe project,
‘ fathered by Aristide Briand, will not be
considered by the League of Nations for at
least a year.

The newspaper man must know the truth
as fully as it can be known, be ready and
fearless to tell it, and then know how to
tell it—John H. Finley.

() Complete Service

forSchool Publications

ALUMNI PERSONALS

The Board of Trustees’ committee to
study the dancing question at Davidson met
here last Saturday for their first conference.
Four of the five members were present, who
were I, P. Graham, ’08, Cooleemee, chair-
man; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, 94, Greensboro;
Rey. W. C. Brown, ’93, Barium Springs, and
J. Archie Cannon, ’04, Concord.

Alumni seen at the Wake Forest-David-
son basketball game were Ed Morrison, ’25,
Concord; Dr. D. H. Nesbit, '13, Charlotte;
J. B. Johnston, ’01, Barium Springs; L. H.
Wilkinson, 713, Charlotte; Geo. Battle, Jr.,
’27, Concord, and Ben F. Brown, ’29, Char-
lotte.

Others here during the past week included
J. K. Hall, Jr., ’29; A. W. Baker, ’29, and
D. C. Hunter, ’30, all of Belmont; Edgar
H. Tufts, ’22, Banner Elk; J. B. Alexander,
’88, Charlotte, and C. L. Black, ’04, of

Greensboro.

A. F. Black, ’10, of Charlotte, and A. C.
McIntyre, '25, of Ontario, Canada, were also
among the many visitors. Mr. Black has re-
cently moved to Charlotte from Columbus,
Ga., and is with the Calco Chemical Com-
pany, of the former city. Mr. McIntyre has
been in Canada for several years, and is man-
ager of the Stratford (Canada) branch of the
Ontario Equitable Life Insurance Company.
While visiting in South Carolina Mr. Mc-
Intyre was the guest of T. C. McSwain, ’25,
of Minturn, S. C.

Ek. P..O’Connor, ’26, formerly with the Ob-
server Printing House, in Charlotte, is now
employed by the Atlanta, Ga. branch of
the Erie Lithographing and Printing Com-
pany.

Capt. R. M. Fitzpatrick, '02, is now sta-
tioned at Fresno, Calif. There are now 16
Davidson alumni in that far-away state.

_ New Addresses

Some of the new addresses obtained re-
cently include:
John R. Falls, ’28, LaSalle Apts.,
ington, D. C.
A. D. Calhoun, Jr., ’23, 1326 Vermont
Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C.
D. M. Bethea, '25, 2258 West Grand Blvd.,
Apt. 110, Detroit, Mich.

J. Layton Mauze, Jr., ’30, care Laidlaw &
Co., 26 Broadway, New York, N. Y:

Dr. L. L. Wilson, ’20, care Woodruff
Clinic, High Point.

W. W. Harrison, Jr., ’30, 1841 Kalorama
Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C.

A. C, McIntyre, ’25, 819 Ontario St.; Strat-
ford, Ontario, Canada.

Rev. C. D. Patterson, ’26, West Hunts-
ville, Ala.

J. A. Joyner, ’26, Postal Telegraph Co.,
Norfolk, Va.

Dan M. Nuttall, 16, Colonial Apts., Char-
lotte.

R. A. McPheeters, ’21, High Point.

W. M. Heston, ’25, 266 Hampton Ter-

race, N. E., Atlanta, Ga.
Le J

Wash-

Of 39 medical men who were elected fel-
lows in the Tri-State Medical Socfety at its
recent meeting, two were Davidson alumni,
Dr. I. A. Bigger, ’13; of.Richmond, Va., and
/Dr, W. Z. Bradford, ’24, of Charlotte.

ar / 4

W. M. Fetzer, ’06, now residing at Bre-
vard, has been named assistant football coach
at William and Mary College for the 1931
season. Coach Bill Fetzer is widely known
throughout the South as a mentor. He has
tutored athletic teams at Davidson, N. C.
State and the University of North Carolina.
For the past several years he has been out
of the coaching game.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of J. W. Smith, father of Warren W. Smith,
’28, of Charlotte; Mr. W. A. Gentry, father
of J. H. Gentry, ’13, of Advance, N. C.

Dr. H. C. Menzies,.’95, of Hickory, has
been appointed a member of the Catawba
County Welfare Board. Dr. Menzies has
also been a member of the County Board of}
Health and of the county tubercular hospital
board.

J. Archie Cannon, ’04, has been re-elected
as 1931 president of the Cabarrus County
Club, Concord.

R. W. Walker, III, ’25, of Salisbury, has
been made vice-president of the R. W.
Walker Lumber Company, which concern
has recently announced a veneer factory for
that city.

Newspaper dispatches from the training
camp of the Detroit Tigers, where C. K.
Marrow, ’31, is working out as a pitching
recruit. Camp followers, according to an ar-
ticle appearing last Saturday, have predicted
a big league future for him, after he has
gained more experience.

Rev. C. B. Yeargan, 06, Itasca, Texas.
C. M. McCaskill, ’21, 1610 Lovers Lane,
Monroe, La.

Births

Dr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, and Mrs. Alex-
ander, of Charlotte, announce the birth of
a son, Uhlman Seymour, Jr., on February
14th.

Kenneth Harris, ’27, and Mrs. Harris, of
Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter,
Marilyn Edwards, on February 18th.

BASEBALL CANDIDATES

(Conthued from page 3)
the other. veteran infielders, Proctor, and
Goodson, have not reported for practice,
just having come through a long basketball
season. Captain Armfield, veteran catcher,
has been supervising the workouts while
engaging in them himself.

The pitching staff has not a single return-
ing letterman in its ranks, but McAllister,
Thompson, and Croker have returned from
last year’s squad and all will probably see
service this year. The pitching department
has been hard at work for a week and in
another week will probably begin to bear
down a little with the rest of the team.

“29

”

Garland Court

Printing and Engraving
of

Every Description

P.M. CONWAY
27 Rumple

‘STANDARD PRINTING CO.

I

Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Is Furnishing
Preparatory Teachers

Survey of 18 Institutions Show
That Over 10 Per Cent of the
Teachers Are From Davidson

Davidson College is this year furnishing
over ten per cent of the teachers in 18 of
the leading preparatory schools of the South
and East, according to a survey which was
completed this week. In the 18 institutions
surveyed, the faculty enrollment totals 280
men, and these are graduates of 102 col-
leges and universities. Of the 280 teachers,
40 are from Davidson, or an actual percent-
age of 10.4.

The survey shows that Davidson is fur-
nishing over twice as many preparatory
school teachers as any of the other 102 col-
leges or universities included in the 18 in-
stitutions. The University of Virginia has
the next largest number, with 14, the Uni-
versity of Texas, 12; Hampden-Sidney, 11;
Harvard, 10; University of Georgia, 9; Van-
derbilt University, 8; Southwestern Presby-
terian University, 8, and the remaining 182
teachers are distributed among 95 different
institutions.

Among the latter are Georgia Tech, Uni-
versity of Tennessee, University of Missis-
sippi, Mercer University, Mississippi A. &
M., Louisiana State, Tulane University,
Washington and Lee, V. M. I., William and
Mary, N. C. State, Furman, Southern Meth-
odist, University of Alabama, The Citadel,
Wake Forest, V. P. I., University of South
Carolina.

Preparatory institutions included in this
survey included Woodberry Forrest, Orange,
Va.; McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.;
Darlington School, The Berry Schools,
Rome, Ga.; Branham Hughes Military Aca-
demy, Spring Hill, Tenn.; Barium Springs
Orphanage, Gulf Coast Military Academy,
Gulfport, Miss.; St. Christopher’s School,
Richmond, Va.; Chamberlain-Hunt Military
Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.; Presbyterian
Junior College (preparatory department) ;
Battle Ground Academy, Franklin, Tenn. ;
Schreiner Military Institute, Kerrville, Tex-
as; Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon,
Ky.; The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.;
Riverside Military Academy, Gainesville,
Ga.; St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass. ;
Lees-McRae Institute, Banner Elk, N. C.,
and Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg,
Virginia.

The Berry Schools, Rome, Ga., has the
largest number of Davidson graduates of the
18 listed above. Four are teaching there.
Woodberry Forrest, Battle Ground Aca-
demy and Chamberlain and Hunt Military
Academy have three each.

Some preparatory schools in which Da-
vidson men are teaching were not included
in the survey because a catalogue has not
yet been received from them. Others known
to have Davidson men on their faculties are
Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.; Tupelo
Military Academy, Tupelo, Miss.; Wallace

Five Alumni Meetings

Are Planned for March

New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia,
Columbia and Augusta Are on
the List

The month of March is generally a busy
one for local alumni chapter meetings, and
while the 1931 program is not extensive as‘
in former years, it includes quite a number
of local meetings. At present, five different
meetings are being planned over an eight-
day period, but they will not all be on the
usual trip through the East.

It was announced the middle of February
that Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor
at Davidson, had been invited to speak to
the New York alumni, and that he would
also go to Baltimore. Dr. Harding’s trip has
been extended further, so that it might in-
clude a meeting of the chapter in Philadel-
phia. The New York date was definitely set
last fall for March 18, and the dates which
have been suggested to Jocal officers are
March 17 in Baltimore and March 19 in
Philadelphia:

Heeding a request made a year or two ago
by some of the Davidson alumni in Augusta,
an original meeting for the alumni in that
city and others’ close by in South Carolina
is planned for Friday night, March 13. Prior
to visiting in Augusta, the alumni secretary,
who will attend the meetings, has suggested
the date of Thursday, March 12, to authori-
ties in Columbia, S. C. A chapter was organ-
ized there several years ago, but its meetings
have been infrequent since that time.

Several days ago a request came to the
alumni office from Dr. L. L. Wilson, ’20, of
High Point, asking that steps be taken to
organize a chapter there. If finances permit,
the secretary. hopes to have a number of
local meetings throughout North Carolina
during the month of April. Meetings within
the confines of this state have not been held
during the past two years because of the
economy being practiced to get out of debt.

Atlanta, Ga—(IP)—College boys in
Georgia would have to go back to the old
black ties and drab socks of their fathers,
or beg increased allowances from home, if
the Georgia legislature were to pass a bill
now before it providing an exorbitant tax on
red neckties and loud socks.

Miss Bessie Kempton, representative from
Fulton County, and Representative Pat Grif-
fin, of Decatur, sponsors of the bill, said it
was “diabolically planned” to wipe out a
state deficit of some $7,000. The house need-
ed a good laugh the day the bill was pre-
sented, the representatives said, and they set
about trying to find something to tax that
hadn't yet been suggested. The tax would
be $1 a day on the wearer of the colorful
clothing.

School, Nashville, Tenn. ; Stuyvestant School,
Warrenton, Va.; Porter Military Academy,
Charleston, S. C. \

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts
—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete free-
dom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little
tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your

shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P: H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

