r

Book Review

Journal of Katherine Mansfield. Alfred A.

Knopf, N. Y., 1930.

Perhaps it would be as well to risk the dan-
ger of insulting the intelligence of the reader
and make a preliminary warning concerning
this book. The Journal of Katherine Mansfield

is not what it sounds like. It is not arty, not)

high-brow, not the English course sort of book,
not hard to read; in fact, it is nothing that
one would expect, knowing it to be a “Journal”
of a woman writer. It is simply life.
Katherine Mansfield (Mrs.
Murray, nee Kathleen Beauchamp)

finest in her line, during the first twenty years
of the century. Her books include Bliss, The
Dovwe’s Nest, The Garden Party, and In a Ger-
man Pension. These volumes only
short stories. Her short
from almost any others. They do not begin
with an introduction, work up to a climax, and
end with a denouement; most
practically where they started, while some are
quite melodramatic; yet they are not mere
character studies—they are bits of life. Life
just as it is lived. The possession ofthis qual-
ity of life is the reason Katherine Mansfield’s
books are so very interesting. One settles back
and thinks: “Oh yes, why I had no idea that
was the way one felt, but come to think of it,
it is.” Of course, all of her stories have a point,
a moral. They are not just so many recorded
incidents. The moral, however, in none of them,
can be found by casually thinking over the
story, and then concluding that good shall

contain

overcome evil, or that man shall give up his ,
. . . . |
life. The morals in Katherine Mansfield’s stories |

are identical with those in life. Just as one can |
naturally register a mistake in an episode in
life, so one can subconsciously realize the les-
sons Katherine Mansfield has set out to teach
in her stories.

Katherine Mansfield’s Journal is a diary or

J. Middleton |
was one |
of the finest writers of fiction, perhaps the very |

stories are different,

of them end}

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30,

NEIGHBORLY COMMENTS

“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson,
| coaches of Davidson College athletic
teams for the past eight years, have
| signed a new contract to continue as
| mentors there for the next five years.
| Since these two came to Davidson the
| college has had lean and fat years in
athletics, but regardless of whether
the Davidson boys were victorious or
not, no rumblings of ousting or dissat-
* isfaction have arisen. Just another
proof of that famous Davidson spirit
we would say! Here’s to them! They
have our sincere admiration!

—Lenoir Rhynean.

\
|

Band Has Brilliant
Outlook This Year

When E: B. Robinson, director of the Sun-
|nyland Serenaders, official college orchestra,
sounded the call for tryouts September 16, nine
new men responded, most of them being Fresh-
|men. After displaying their wares as musicians,
the following men were selected: A. M. Cun-

1931

Juniors and Seniors to
Try for Rhodes Honors

Oct. Ist Last Date for Students to File
Applications With Faculty
Committee

SENIORS ARE PREFERRED

Professors Vowles, Lily, Richards,
Cumming Are Davidson
Committee

Members of the Senior and Junior classes
with good scholastic and extra-curricular rec-
ords are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Schol-
arships. Juniors, however, are seldom appointed.
The North Carolina committee of selection in-
clines toward Seniors, while in some states stu-
dents who have done some graduate work are
sometimes given the preference.

Under the new plan, regional or district ap-!
pointments are made early in December, ap- |

pointments by state committees a little earlier.
Applications for permission to appear as candi-
dates should be in the hands of the Davidson
College Committee (Professors Vowles, Rich-
ards, Lilly, Cumming) by October first. This
committee presents its nominations to the ex-

ningham (Freshman), trumpet; F. A. AAR ie committee, which is the final authority

(Freshman), bass horn; T. CC. Robinso
(Freshman), saxophone; Henry Hodges (Soph-
omore), piano, and W. T. Thompson (Sopho-
more), trumpet. Old men who are back are
as follows: Reeves Pope, first saxophone; S.
M. Hines, third saxophone; W. W. Caligan,
hanjo, and E, B. Robinson, director.

The orchestra will play with the Glee Club,
at college socials and will make short trips in
the vicinity of Davidson. The music they have
played in practice has been of a high calibre
and according to Director Robinson, as a unit,
they are further advanced this year than was
the case at this time last year.

Some twenty Freshmen answered the call for
band practice on the same day. It certainly
spoke well for the Freshmen that every man

notebook kept largely with the idea of record who tried out was selected. The twelve old men

ing impressions and reactions she expected to |
use in her stories; thus, it has the same spirit |
as her books. This spirit is of extreme sensitiv. |
ity. Every record is clear-cut, definite. One can |
feel exactly how she felt and understand fully |
all her joys and sorrows—of sorrow she had
much, more perhaps than was her share, but

she also had joy, and where it came, chere it

was distilled to purity. |

The Journal itself covers only the years from
1914 to her death in 1922, but her husband, the
editor, furnishes a short introductory outline of

this.

Katherine Mansfield was born in Welling-
ton, New Zealand, on October 14, 1888. At thir-
teen she was sent to England to be educated
at Queens College, London, where she re-
mained until she was eighteen. The first recog-
nition at all of her work was in 1909, when
she became a fairly regular contributor (up
until 1911) to “The New Age.” In 1911 Jn a
German Pension was published. In the same
year she met John Middleton Murry, then an
Oxford undergraduate, and they were married
In 1917 Prelude, sometimes considered her beat
story, was published in booklet form. ‘This
story marked the beginning of her fin
of development.
killed in the w.
‘thrown

al phase
In 1915 her brother had been
: ar and her mind had been
into a chaos of broken ideals; its

renascense was,a return to th i
: - e happenings
of her childhood in N. ees

1918, Katherine Mans
of France to get rid
She got worse

field went to the south
oy an attack of pleurisy.
and had to return to EF
From then until her death Katherine vee
suffered from an even more serious case of
tuberculosis coupled. with heart trouble. But
her sickness only seemed to augment her sensi-
tivity and the good quality of her work. In
1920 Bliss was published, and in 1921 The Gar-
den Party and Other Stories finally established
her as the most remarkable writer in England
In 1922 she went to Paris for treatment of het
lungs. She retired to Fontainebleau and died on
the night of January 9. Her death came unex-
pectedly as a result of a violent hemorrhage
occasioned by walking up the stairs,
Katherine Mansfield herself alw
ered her greatest compliment to t
which came from the laboring
read her stories considerably an
letters in which was always expr
fication at the sensation of realit
Stories. Unless one is very sophisticated and
very far above life, this sense of reality is not
hard to find. One need only read one of Kath-
erine Mansfield’s books to realize that her writ-
ing is Life.

ays consid-

classes, who
d wrote her
essed a grati-
y found in her

T. F. W.

All artists who make concessions to other
Ey ;

People’s’ wishes, tastes or views, cease to be
artists—C. R. W. Nevinson.

Error is the force that welds men together ;
truth is communicated to men only by deeds of
truth—Tolstoi. :

The same heart beats in every human breast.
—Matthew Arnold. iad

her life. It might be well to briefly present

ew Zealond. In January, |

be that one!

With the new additions under the direction of
FE. B. Robinson give Davidson a band of which
she can justly be proud,

Prospects for the band are excellent, with the
old men playing well, ably supported by the
newcomers and a good spirit prevailing, led
by its director, E. B. Robinson, who stated that
the band is also further advanced than it was
at the same time last year.

Wisconsin Plans to
Construct University
| ie eee
Several Thousand More Students to
Have Better Housing Facilities

Madison, Wis.—(IP)—Plans for the creat-
ing°of a “university city” have been developed
by the regents of the University of Wisconsin
here, as a means of relieving the meagre hous-
ing facilities for the several thousand students
of the university.

Discovering that the present dormitory sys-
tem cares for only 500 men and 365 women,
that fraternity and sorority houses take care of
}only 1,500 men and 600 women, and that the
rest of the 6,000 students stay in rooming
| houses, poorly ventilated and lighted and with-
|out proper toilet facilities, the regents have
| worked out a plan whereby the university would
purchase land on the ridge overlooking Lake
Mendota, and offer rent-free sites to all fra-
ternities and sororities that wish to build
thereon.

There would also be college dormitories on
the ridge, and each unit would*be carefully
plotted and landscaped in accord with the whole
group. Because of a “lobby” of rooming house
‘owners in the city, permission to go ahead with
such a plan was turned down by the last legis-
lature, so that the regents must wait until 1932
before they can obtain the necessary ‘legisla-
tion,

Age is not all decay; it is the ripening, the
swelling, of fresh life within, that withers and
bursts the husks.—Geo, Macdonald.

|
|

God offers to every mind its choice between
truth and repose.—Emerson.

I say the whole earth and all the stars in the
sky are for religion’s sake—Walt Whitman.

To err is human, to forgive divine —Alexander

Pope.

in the selection of candidates. No student or
alumnus of any college may appear before any

state committee without the endorsement of his |
Every year some applications come |

college.
from Dayidson students or alumni too late for
consideration, so, note the date, October 1.

As has already been pointed out in the David-
sonian, one of the results of the plan of regional
election of Rhodes Scholars has been, at least

ALUMNI DEATHS

(Continued from page 4)
at his home in Wilson on April 28 after a brief
illness with pneumonia. He was a native of Tar-
boro, but had lived at Wilson for 30 years,
during which time he had served as secretary
of the Chamber of Commerce for several years
and had been active in other affairs.
Among his survivors is his son, Rev. H. D.
Brown, Jr., ’25, of Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. H. H. Wyman, ’97

Dr. Harry Hastings Wyman, an 1897 alumnus
of Davidson, died suddenly of a heart attack <t
his home in Aiken, S. C., on September 13th.
Dr. Wyman was one of the leading physicians
in South Carolina and was a prominent citizen
lof Aiken. He completed his medical preparation
lat the University of Georgia. Several relatives.

talumni of Davidson, survive him.

L. E. McAlpine, "87

Lawrence Elliott McAlpine, a 1907 alumnus
of Davidson, died at the Wallace Thompson
| Sanatorium at Union, S. C., on July 16th fol-
| lowing an illness of several months. He resided
/two miles from Union. After he left Davidson,
| Mr. McAlpine farmed at Hartsville, S. C., and
| for a while was in business at Blackstock, S. C.
/At the time of his death he was a prominent
mill man of Union.

a

Davidson alumni surviving him are his fa-
Ga.;' and brothers, J. R. McAlpine, Jr., 113,
Hartsville, S. C.; P. H. McAlpine, ’22, Clarkes-
ville, Ga. and W. FE. McAlpine, ’ nion,
South Carolina. \

in the election of 1930, a decidedly larger pro- |

portion of appointees from the smaller colleges. |
No one can foretell the trend of 1931, but the |

1930 elections should be very encouraging to
Davidson men.

Davidson men whose residence is North Car-
olina may appear as candidates only in North
Carolina, Those who reside in other states have

a choice between North Carolina and the state |
of their.residence. In making application the |
candidate should indicate in what state he wishes |

to appear. Davidson College has won three ap-
pointments in North Carolina, two in South
Carolina and one in Arkansas.

The scholarships are worth nearly $2,000 a
year, and are tenable for two years, with priv-
ilege of reappointment the third year. By a
recent ruling, the scholar may spend his third
year, under certain conditions, in a university
of the Continent. A colonial Rhodes Scholar

may spend his third year in an American or |

Continental university.

It may be surprising to the American stu- |

dent to learn that the Oxford academic year
is less than six months, There are three terms
of eight weeks each. During the terms the stu-
dent attends lectures, orients himself i his
work, confers with his tutor, finds his place in
athletic life and makes other social contacts.
During the vacations of respectively six, six and
sixteen weeks, he-must do the major part of
vis “reading,” as they call studying. He may
do this anywhere except in Oxford. No student

may reside in Oxford during vacation without |

permission. The Rhodes Scholars usually com-
bine study with travel on the Continent. The
student of history visits places of historical in-
terest, the language student has opportunity to
hear the language spoken. It would be impos-
sible to enumerate all the opportunities in the
way. of travel and study open to Rhodes Schol-
ars during vacations.

If. you do not apply, you will not get the}

scholarship. If Jou do, you may be Davidson’s
seventh Rhode’s Scholar. Your application
should reach Dr. Vowles by October first.

Educated Dog

Franklin, _Nebr.—(1P)—Scottie, a well-
trained Scotch collie, owned by W. R. Duckett
of this city, probably has attended more uni-
versities than any other dog. His “education”
has been secured at the University of Chi-
cago, the University of Kansas and Columbia
University.

Scottie’s master is blind, and the dog for the
last three summers has guided Duckett to
classes in the universities where he has been
studying for his master of arts degree.

At the close of the past summer session at
Columbia, when the students applauded: at the
close of the last lecture by Dr. William C.
Bagley, Scottie joined the applause with pro-

Hh

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’

WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc.

longed cheerful barking.
“SODA”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

P. M. Robinson, ’23

Pink Mundy Robinson, 1923 alumnus of ‘Da-
| vidson, diel at Longview, Wash., on July 9th
jafter a lingering illness. He was a native of
Denver, N. C., and after leaving Davidson he
| wes assistant manager of Gilmers, Inc., Lynch-
| burg, Va. He was later connected with Mont-
gomery Ward Company, at Hickory, before
going to the West Coast.

Rev. J. S. McFall, ’26

Rev. John Swillins McFall, a 1926 alumnus
{of Davidson, was fatally injured in a football
|game at Aliceville, Ala., on September 11th.
He went there a year ago to accept a pas-
torate of the First Presbyterian Church, and
was a member of a town team playing the
high school when he received a fractured skull,
death resulting a few hours later.

Mr. McFall left Davidson and entered Co-
lumbia Theological Seminary, where he ob-
tained his divinity degree. Immediately after
he concluded this preparation he was pastor of
the church at Morven, N. C., before going to
Aliceville. His engagement and approaching
marriage had been announced before his death.

T. F. Anderson, ’27 -

| Thomas Farish Anderson, 1927 graduate of
Davidson, and basketball captain his Senior
year, died in a New York hospital on August
3rd. His death resulted from pneumonia, fol-
lowed by complications. Two operations were
performed in an attempt to save his life.

|
|

Mr. Anderson was a native of Bristol, Tenn.,
and following his graduation, he became con-
nected with Reynolds Metals Company, and was
in Louisville, Ky., for almost four
years. Late last fall he was transferred to
New York, where his death occurred.

Among his.survivors is a brother, John C.
Anderson, ’25, of Louisville, Ky.

located

DAVIDSON WILDCATS LOSE
(Continued from pgae 1)
eree, Strupper (Georgia Tech) ; umpire, Major
(Auburn) ; head linesman, McGuggin (Mich-
igan).

ther, Rev. J. R. McAlpine, '72, of Clarkesville, | Waynesville ;

Ancient City Found |
ae Buried in Black Sea

Believed to Have Thrived in Second
Century Before Christ

Moscow—(IP)—An ancient city, believed to
have thrived in the second to fourth centuries
before Christ, has been discovered by Soviet
archeologists, buried on the floor of the Black
Sea on the southwestern extremity of the Cri-
mean Peninsula.

Divers found the city under 40 feet of water,
and reported the ruins to be those of a city
in the shape of a great horse shoe, with walls,
towers, houses and underground tunnels honey~-
combing the whole.

The archeologists believe the city was de-
stroyed in the gradual sinking of the land,
which is known to be creeping rapidly into
the sea.

The approximate dates of the city were es-
tablished by red clay earthenware and crockery
lying about.

TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES

(Continued from pgae 1)

W. L. Northern, Jr., Sarasota, Fla.; J. B.
James, Greenville, N. C.; D. P. McLain, Cleve-
land, Tenn.: G. L. Gullette and P. M. Rogers,
both of Florence, Ala.; A. H. Smathers, Jr.,
Raymond Pollock, Jr. New
Bern; D, G: Munroe, Fayetteville; T. J. Wil-
son, Winston-Salem; J. D. Sievers, Winston-
Salem, and R. H. Smith, Jr., Mobile, Ala.

Pi Kappa Phi: C. W. Marsh, Marshville,

‘member of the Sophomore class, and the fol-

lowing Freshmen: W. M. Alderman, Alcolu,
Ss. C.: R. L. Allen, Greenville, S. C.; A. W.
Burns, Philadelphia, Pa.; W. E. MclInvaile,
Hartsville, S. C.; D. A. Morrison, Martsville,
S. C.; C. J. Paine, Waycross, Ga.; J. D. Ran-
kin, Charlotte; Clarence Rozelle, Taladega,
Ala., and J. E. Spence, Greensboro.

Theta Upsilon Omega: P. W. Brown, Ashe-
ville; J. Enid Bowers, Charlotte; H. M. Ray,
Ocala, Fla.; W. B. Shumate, Newport News,
Va.; F. C. Young, Greenwood, Miss.; F. A.
Tucker, High Point, and J. E. Parker, Hope-
well, Va.

Phi Delta Theta: B. C. Barnes, Asheville;
R. S. Dupuy, Greensboro; W. M. Glasgow,
Charlotte; P. D. Guerrant, Jr., Pasadena, Cal.;
J. M. Holmes, Jr., Charlotte; W. H. McPhail,
Jacksonville, Fla.; R. W. Richardson, Jr., Sara-
sota, Fla.; J. A. C. Robinson, Talladega, Ala. ;
and J. R. Taylor, Mobile, Ala. W. F. Green and
G. S. McKinnon, both of DeFuniak Springs,
Fla., are members of the Junior class.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: W. A. Exum, Snow Hill;
S. C. Henry, Concord; C. S. McCall, Ben-
nettsville, S. C.; W. J. Morris, Hattiesburg,
Miss., and A. D. Rogers, Bennettsville, S. C.

FIFTY-ONE CONTEST
IN FROSH CAKE RACE

(Continued from pgae 1)
Sarasota, Fla.; J. M. Smith, Parkton; R. J.
Giles, Glen Alpine; C. C. Murchison, Char-
lotte; C. B. Ross, Davidson; D. H. Donigan,
Teaneck, N. J.; Peyton Montgomery, Reids-
ville, and R. H. Page, Jr., Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Complete Service

for School Publications

Yonuals
Metnet zines
Catalous

Dieu Books
Queen Cry Pemtng Co.

Charlotte I? C

3
PO

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday
“WICKED
with

VICTOR McLAUGHLIN

Thursday
“DEVOTION”

ANNE ‘HARDING
‘Friday
ERO MAID”
NANCY CAROLL
Saturday
“CAUGHT”
with
RICHARD ARLEN

7
pS

| Oe

