DR. OREN MOORE
IS VESPER
SPEAKER FOR
SUNDAY: NIGHT

he

Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SIX SOUTHERN
CONFERENCE
ELEVENS ARE ON
DAVIDSON
1931 SCHEDULE

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1931

No. 15

WILDCAT TEAM LEADS THE |
BIG FIVE RACE IN STATE |
AFTER PAIR OF VICTORIES

Brilliant Victories Over N. C. State
and U. of N. C. Makes Them Out-
standing in State Race

By virtue of two victories over teams re-
garded as the cream of Big Five talent, the
Davidson Wildcats have sky-rocketted to
the place as leaders in the annual cage race
in the bare space of three days. Their de-
cisive win over N. C. State Thursday night
stamped a_hitherto-unknown_team_as_some-
thing to be reckoned with before the final
reckoning was done this winter, and their
smashing comeback to eke out a one-point
win over Carolina showed that Coach Monk
Younger had fashioned a team that not only
knew how to play basketball but had the
fighting heart of a champion.

In the meantime, the Duke Blue Devils
have won their lone encounter in the Big
Five to also gain a position near the head
with a perfect percentage. After being held
even by Wake Forest for a half, the Blue
Devils spurted in the last stanza and came
home with a comfortable margin of victory.

With their first two serious hurdles past,
the Davidson five now goes into hibernation
for the length of exams with their position
secure as leaders until they take the courts
again against State competition early in
February.’ There will be no change in the4
positions of the other teams for at least a
week, since all fare forth against out-of-state
teams or members of the Little Six.

The two leaders at the present time, Da-
vidson and Duke, have teams which are much
alike in many respects. Both lost stars by
graduation and had to rebuild a great deal.
The Wildcats started the year off minus the
services of two forwards, Pritchett and
Johnston, and Duke had lost three flashy
players, Werber, Councilor, and Farley.
Both teams have been rebuilt around a
nucleus of two or three veterans.

N. C. State and Carolina both showed
great form against early season opposition,
with the Red Terrors holding a command-
ing place by virtue of a victory over Villa
Nova, who dealt harshly with Duke and
Wake Forest. In the state race, the Wolfpack
has a loss to Davidson and a victory over

(Continued on page 6)

Senior House Party
Set for Feb. 21-22

Mrs. Schenck is Named Chairman
of Faculty Entertainment
Committee

In accordance with the annual custom of
the faculty entertaining the Senior class at
a Senior house party, plans have been under
way for ‘some time planning what appears
to be the most successful and largest Senior
entertainment such as was held last year at
the campus.

Very few plans are available at present,
but the date of the party has been set for
the week-end of February 21-22. It is also
known that the girls attending the house
party will be asked to bring a costume.
This means that there will be some sort of
entertianment such as was held last year at
the same party.

This entertainment is solely for the Seniors
and_ it has always been looked upon as one
of the big entertainments of the year here
at Davidson. The program will be for the
most part planned by the faculty committee
on entertainments,’ of which Mrs. Schenck
is the chairman.

Several committees will be chosen to aid
Mrs. Schenck in the plans for the week-
end.’ There will be a committee appointed
to look after the housing of the girls, a
great many of whom will stay in the homes
of the faculty. Another group will be named
to help with the program, and another to
plan the refreshments.

D. S. Lafar, president of this year’s grad-
uating class, urges every member of the
Senior class to invite a girl up for the
Senior week-end.

Prof. Currie Speaks |
At Sunday Vespers

One of the most interesting and inspiring
talks of the year was delivered at vesper
services last Sunday by Prof. Archie Cur-
ric. He chose as his subject, or title, “The
College Man and Law,” and around this
head placed certain propositions relating to|
it.

The first of these propositions was the
fact that the college man dominates the |
world. This fact is almost universally true
whether in business, politics, or a profession.
Professor Currie related how Senator Mor-
rison was ridiculed for saying in the Senate |
that a certain friend of his was a leader and |
also an elder in the Presbyterian Church. |
But his statement probably had more truth
in it than even he realized.

“The world is governed by law, and not
law by the world,’ was Professor Currie’s |
second point. This proposition, the speaker |
said, was never more true than it is today.
In this day and time there can never he
any more rulers as omnipotent as Alexander
or Caesar. A noted minister at Asheville
recently made the sagacious statement that
tie recent civic collapse was due largely to |
the people’s attitude towards law.

The field of law is so big that it must
be qualified and divided. Thus we have the
law of God and the law of man. We can
change the law“of man as in our constitu-
tion, but we often get the idea that we can |
mind the law of God just as we mind the
law of man. The law of God is based on
the Ten Commandments, and many people |
by their custom and usage try to amend |
these laws just as they would the poor in- |
adequate laws of man. The reason people
try to change the laws of God is because |
they follow their leaders as they did in the |
time of the prophet Ezekiel.

The Christian elder leaders must remem- |
ber that whatever their attitude towards the
Eighteenth Amendment, etc., their attitude
towards the laws of God must be one of |
reverent submission and loyalty to its au-!|
thor.

Davidson Students Hear ©
Brilliant Polish Pianist

|
Virtuoso Renders Many Selections,
Favoring Brahms, Beethoven, |
Chopin, and Debussy in Varied
Program ,

|

Friday, January 9, Ignace Jan Paderewstti)|
famous Polish pianist, gave a memorable re- |
cital in the Armory Auditorium, Charlotte. |
The appearance of this man is a momentous |
event anywhere, and for once the people in|
Charlotte seemed to recognize their oppor- |
tunity, for the auditorium was packed with |
some thirty-two hundred persons. As cus- |
tomary, the pianist was greeted by a rising |
audience, and the program begun in a dark- |
ened hall. |

Of late critics have been wont to con- |
demn this nian for the brevity of his pro-
grams. Certainly any such criticism would |
have been out of place at this recital, as the |
audience was held for nearly two and three- |

quarter hours. :

From the beginning, Mr. Paderewski gave |
evidence of his right to be called a master |
‘Virtuoso. If, in recent concerts, he has been |
guilty of unwonted pounding and careless- |
ness of detail, there was no evidence Fri- |
day, for he certainly appeared at his very |
finest, and a more masterly performance
could not have been given.

The program opened with The Variations
and Fugue on a theme by Handel of the
great German composer, Brahms. Perhaps
six or seven different variations were given
before the Fugue was taken up, and when
it did come, it was with startling sudden-

ness. The voices of the Fugue throughout

their intertwining were always clearly and
(Continued on page 6).

Princeton Professor to
Lecture

Dr. Thomas Jefferson Werten-
boker, Edwards Professor of His-
tory, Princeton University, will de-
liver a public lecture in the New

“Chambers Auditorium before the
faculty and students of Davidson
College on the evening of February
9th, next,

Professor Wertenboker is an au-
thor and lecturer of distinction. In
April he goes to Germany to deliver
a course of lectures at Gottinger
University. The faculty committee
on lectures feels that it is fortunate
in being able to secure Professor
Wertenboker to appear on its pro-
gram.

These lectures will be the third of
the first semester's presentation by
the faculty committee on lectures.

Highest Rating is Given
Davidson by University
Association of America

One of Four North Carolina Insti-
tutions Named on List for 1930

CONFORMS TO DEMANDS
Association of American Universi-
ties is Highest Educational
Organization n U. S.

According to the 1930 Education Bulletin
issued this month by the United States De-
partment of the Interior, Davidson is one
of the four North Carolina institutions
named on the approved list of the Associa-
tion of American, Universities. This means
that Davidson conforms to the strenuous
demands made by this association in its ap-
proval, and the alumni from Davidson are

admitted without examination to any edu-

cational institution in the United States for
graduate work.

The Association of American Universities
is the highest educational rating organization
in the United States, and Davidson thus
ranks very high among the colleges and uni-

(Continued on page 6)

“Quips and Cranks”
Receives High Honor

Annual Edited by Pratt Awarded A-
Rating of Excellent by
Association

At the last meeting of the National Schol-
astic Press Association on October 1, 1930,
at the “University of Minnesota, the 1930
edition of “Quips and Cranks,” edited by
C. M. Pratt, was awarded a rating of excel-
lent which is second to All-American rating.

This was the tenth meeting of the organ-
ization which every year gives college an-
nuals throughout the United States their
proper rating according to their merits.
There are five grades in which the year
books may be placed. They are as follows:
1, All-American; 2, excellent; 3, good; 4
high average; 5, no honor.

“)

This book is not the only one of David-
son’s annuals which has won distinction, as
the annual edited by Don Wharton a few
years ago won the high distinction of All-
American rating.

No Davidsonian Next

Week

Due to winter term examinations
which start on the 15th and extend
throughout the 24th of January,
there will be no Davidsonian pub-
lished next week. After this, reg-
ular publication will be resumed.

It is expected that a report will be
made at that time as regards the
Senior questionnaires which were
submitted to the Senior class before
the holidays. —

t

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM
OF 1931 FACES SIX FOES

IN SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Dr. Lingle to Make
Addresses on Trip

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will speak in four
different states during the next three weeks,
filling pulpits, speaking before men’s organ-
izations in two states, conducting a series of
missionary conferences, attending a series of
alumni meetings, and appearing before other
bodies. He will deliver almost as many ad-
dresses as there are days, since his sched-
ule calls for two appearances on a number
of occasions,

Next Sunday he will preach twice in the
Kirst Presbyterian Church of High Point,
and the following night he will be in Shelby

to address the Piedmont Council of Boy
Scouts, which will include approximately
200 men from six different counties. THe

leaves for Atlanta immediately after this
address to attend a meeting in Atlanta on
Tuesday.

Dr. Lingle goes to Columbia, S, C.,
January 20 to deliver an address on “The
State of the Southern Presbyterian Chureh,”
before a gathering of Presbyterian men in
South Carolina. This conference will be sim-
ilar to that to be held in Greensboro for
the North Carolina Presbyterian men, when
Dr. Lingle will address the gathering on
“A Diagnosis and a Remedy.”

From January 25-30, Dr. Lingle will be
in Ilorida, conducting a chain of mission-
ary conferences. His work will be in St.
Petersburg, Tampa, and Clearwater. Before
he returns to his office here, the Davidson
president will attend a series of four alumni
meetings in Florida and Georgia, and speak
in two Florida churches. The alumni meet-
ings will be at Tampa, Orlando, Jackson-
ville, Fla., and Thomasville, Ga. .

Already for the month of February Dr.
Lingle has engagements that will take him
to Richmond, Washington, D. C., and Chat-
tanooga,

Ou

~

Reser Drama gue
To Conduct Annual Tour

Eaton Will Tour England and Ger-
many, While Sheldon Cheney
Tours Russia

The Drama League of America recently
announced that two drama tours to Europe
will be conducted this summer, one by Wal-
ter Pritchard Eaton to England and Ger-
many, and the other by Sheldon Cheney to
Russia, These are annual tours taken advan-
tage of usually by college students, and con-
ducted by leading experts in stagecraft.

Mr. Eaton, author of “The American
Stage of Today,” “The Actor’s Heritage,”
and a recent history of the Theatre Guild,
will lead the fourth annual Summer Theatre
Tour, sailing from New York July 4. The
party will first visit England for the inter-
esting Shakespeare festival, then Orange for
the yearly festival held in the Theatre An-
tique. From there they will journey to
Salsburg for the Reinhardt Festival, then
visit Heidelburg, Munich, and Bayreuth for
their festival seasons. In addition to visiting
these interesting old landmarks of the the-
atre, interviews are being arranged with
prominent theatrical personages throughout
these countries, such as Max Reinhardt,
Gordon Craig, the Capeks, and a few others.
Special features of the tour will include
visits backstage to investigate theatrical
equipment and machinery, and the party will
enjoy plays from both sides of the foot-
lights.

The other novel trip arranged is through
the Soviet republic and will be led by Shel-
don Cheney, outstanding exponent of theatre
arts and author of “The Theatre,” ‘1,000
Years of Stage Direction,” and the recently
published “New World Architecture.” This
trip sails early on May 9 in order to reach
Russia before the theatres close. The pur-

(Continued on page 5)

Strong Washington and Lee Gen-
erals Replace Wofford on Wildcat
Grid Card

Six Southern Conference teams will grace
the 1931 football card of the Wildcats, in-
cluding such drastic changes as the addi-
tion of the Washington and Lee Generals
and the change of the Wake Forest game
to Davidson, Th Generals will replace Wof-
ford, age-old rival of the 'Cats~ The sched-
ule includes ten contests with five games
carded at’ Richardson Field and the possibil-
ity of one more, while no games have been
scheduled for Charlotte. Five games are
carded for the same week-end as they were
this year—Elon, N. C. State, V. M. I., Caro-
lina, and Wake Forest.

The of the Washington and
Davidson tilt is undecided, but according to
Captain Pritchett it will be either Lexing-
ton, Va., Asheville, or Davidson. At  pres-
ent, however, it is reasonably expected to
come off in Lexington. The V. P. 1.-Da-
vidson pending between
Blacksburg and Richmond. Richmond is  fa-

scene Lee-

struggle is also
vored by the Davidson officials because of
the great number of alumni. there. ;
It expected that the Duke
game scheduled at Davidson for October 17
will be named the Hlome-Coming date, al-
though that is not authoritative and will not
be decided upon until June. This will be the
most convenient date, being a game that re-

is generally

turning alumni will be interested in seeing
and also being early in the season. Wallace
Wade will be bringing to Davidson next year
a Southern title contender
which should add still more interest to that
as the Home-Coming game. =

Another interesting feature of the sched-
ule is the switching of the Carolina game
back to Chapel Hilb for the first time in
a number of years. The? game had almost
come to be an annual affair on the David-
son campus. It is not known whether the
game will be played for several years at
Chapel Hill, or whether the officials will
agree to alternate from year to year.

Conference

Probably one of the most interesting fea
tures of the whole schedule is the possibil-
ity of the Wake Forest game being played
Field next year. While no
written contract has been signed, Captain
Pritchett states that a tentative agreement
among of the
two institutions that the game will be played
here next year and that the Wake Forest
officials might choose the scene of the fol-
lowing year’s battle.

(Continued on page 5)

on Richardson

has been made the officials

Dr. Oren Moore to?
Be Vesper Speaker

Loyal Friend of Student Body is
Popular Throughout South

The Y. M. C. A. has been fortunate enough
to secure as speaker at vespers on this com-
ing Sunday night, Dr. Oren Moore, of Char-
lotte. Dr. Moore is a baby specialist, and as
such has gained a wide reputation both in
Charlotte and in the South.

To most of the upper classmen Dr. Moore
needs no introduction. He has spoken here
before, not only at vespers but on various
other occasions. Aside from -being an inter-
esting and enlightening speaker, Dr. Moore
has many qualities that would make him
appeal to. Davidson men. He is one of the
most loyal backers of all Davidson athletic
teams in Charlotte. He attends all of the
games and is always ready to help in any
way possible.

It is interesting to note that several years
ago Dr. Moore was awarded a gold foot-
ball because of his interest in Davidson’s
athletics, and his ardent support of the
teams. .

Dr. Moore has a wide reputation as a
speaker, and is a member of the Kiwanis
Club in Charlotte.
