6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 13, 1932

Prof. Shewmake Has
Novel Teaching Idea

New Method of English: Instruction
Proposed in Educational
Magazine

An article by Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, head
of the English

department at Davidson, on
“An English Teaching Plan for the Whole

Teaching Staff,” appeared in the April 2 issue
of “School and Society.” Dr. Shewmake has

for many years been interested in this method,

of teaching and in this article he gives a work-
ing plan which makes! this method practical.
The article follows:

“The teacher of literature is not expected to
permit habitual carelessness in the simple arith-
metical processes or in handling of whatever his-
torical, scientific materials students
may need to use. Is it unreasonable, then, to
ask teachers of other subjects to require of the

or other

members of their classes something more than
occasional conformity to the fundamental prin-
ciples and details of standard English usage?

“Special measures for improvement adopted
in the past have been used mainly with fresh-
men, apparently with the hope that young stu-
dents could he so grounded in good English
that acceptable speech and writing would follow
them all the days of their lives. A more com-
prehensive and effective plan is needed. The
one outlined below is passing through its sec-

ond year of experiment at Davidson College

and gives promise of success,
“The first step was the adoption by the fac-

Cunningham Speaks

Letter Reveals the |
| At Chapel Exercises

Sentiment of South

South Swept by Sorrow at News of President of Louisville Theological
Lincoln’s Assassination | Seminary Talks on the Ministry
|

Fort Wayne, Ind.—Two newly found letters; ‘The church is the biggest business in the
written by a Confederate prisoner of war were world today, and the world is looking to the
offered today, the 67th anniversary of Abraham church for leadership during this period of de-
Lincoln’s assassination, as fresh evidence of the pression and bewilderment,” declared Rev. R,
genuine sorrow which swept the Southern S. Cunningham, D.D., president of Louisville
States when news of Lincoln’s death became Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Louisville.
known.

lKy., in talking to the Davidson College students
The letters were made public by Dr. Louis ' at chapel exercises on Thursday.

A. Warren, director of the Lincoln Historical! Dr. Cunningham used as a text for his talk
Research Foundation, into whose hands the let-. the words which Paul wrote in Timothy 1:12,
ters recently were delivered for preservation in “For I thank Jesus Christ, our Lord, for put-
the foundation’s museum here. They were writ- ting me into the ministry,” and he spoke par-
ten in April, 1865, by John D. Williams, ARE about the challenge of the ministry, as
young law student, who was in “Block G, Co.|a life work.

/ 18” at Johnson's Island, Ohio.

| The speaker quoted Roger W. Babson, noted

In the first of these letters, dated April 14, | statistician, who had recently declared that the |

| : i ; j
}end apparently written only a few hours before | present depression is the result of dishonesty

the assassination, Williams wrote: | and disobedience to God's will, and that the

“Our cause has met with disaster. Through | depression will only be cured by a “moral awak- |

jthe clemency of the” President of the United | ening, a spiritual revival, and a rehabilitation of
States, I think: we all will soon be set free to | righteousness.” “This,” declared Dr. Cunning-
go to our homes or elsewhere at our option. | ham, “represented the task of the church to-
Lincoln has it in his power to make himself one | day.”
of the greatest men now living, and I am in-| fle stated that the problem of the ministry
clined to believe he will not let the golden mo- | is one of quality and not of quantity, and said
ments pass without making the most of it.”
Six days later, on April 20, Williams wrote:
“Strange features have occurred in the awful
‘drama that has been now for four years on
the stage. The assassination of President Lin-

that surveys showed that unemployed ministers
are those who are not properly prepared and
equipped. “The minister, prepared as he can be
prepared, and armed with that weapon, can do
more to right the relations of human beings and

ity Netmen Win
veer Over South Carolina

The Davidson Wildcats gave the University
of South Carolina her second defeat of the sea-
son in her invasion of North Carolina here
Wednesday afternoon by beating the South
Carolina tennis team by the close score of
4 to 3.

The best singles matches were the Holman-
Myers and Enloe-Crum contests, while the
doubles played between Killingsworth and Col-
lins against Calder and Myers was the most
interesting.

Summary:

Singles—Halverstadt (D) defeated Killings-
|worth (S C), 6-3, 6-2. Lafferty (D) defeated
Collins (S C ), 6-3, 6-3. Holman (S C) de-
lfeated Myers (D), 6-1, 0-6, 6-2. Enloe (D)
| defeated Captain Crum (S C), 5-7, 6-1, 6-1.
| Ellison (SC) defeated Roddy (D), 6-3, 6-0.
Doubles—Lafferty and Halverstadt (D) de-
/feated Holman and Crum (S C), 6-1, 6-3. Kil-
lingsworth and Collins (S C) defeated Captain
Calder and Myers (D), 5-7, 7-5, 6-3.

'N. C. State Marksmen
Nose Out ’Cat Team

North Carolina State’s rifle team closed its
|}season here last Saturday afternoon by defeat-
ling Davidson College’s marksmen by a score of
1885 to 860.
| Individual scoring honors were won by Dan-
liels, of State, who hit the target for 184 points.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

4

(Continued from page 2)
P: GC
Blue Key, national honorary leadership fra-
ternity, was recently installed at Presbyterian
College.

Duke

The next Duke Pan-Hellenic dance, spon-
sored by the Men’s Council, will be in the
women’s gymnasium on April 15 from 9 to 1,
Music will be furnished by Jelly Leftwich and
his orchestra. S. A. E. is holding its district
convention at Duke at the same time.

Auburn
Ten men were recently tapped by Omicron
Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity.
‘

Lenoir-Rhyne
Their paper, The Lenoir Rhynean, put out an
April Fool number. Here is an excerpt from it:

MENU FOR SPRING ANNOUNCED BY
DIETITIAN
The new menu for the spring months is an-
nounced as follows:

Monday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Beans and rice.
Supper: Rice and beans.

: Tuesday
‘Breakfast: Gravy and grits.
Dinner: Rice and beans.
Supper: Beans and rice.

ulty of a requirement which is explained in the|coln is in my opinion one of the most diabolical

. ; ; ies
college catalogue in a paragraph reading in!deeds that ever blackened the escutcheon of
a great nation, The assassin is the most hor-

part as follows:
““Students whose oral or written English is|rible and despicable shape that humanity can

assist in a proper relationship of them than any |
other agency.” |
|

Dr. Cunningham urged those who possess |

leadership and other necessary qualifications to

Leroy, of State, and Graham, of Davidson, were
tied for second honors with 178. Each team
member fired five shots from each position of
prone, kneeling, sitting, and standing.

Wednesday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Meat bones without the meat.

at any time unsatisfactory to one or. more pro- |
fessors are regarded as conditioned in the use |
of English. When a student is thus conditioned |

he is required to take each test given thereafter
by the English department for such conditional
students until he makes a satisfactory grade.
When a student has removed his condition in
the use of English, he may be conditional there-
after as often as his speech or writing becomes
unsatisfactory to one or more professors,’

“A short time after the mid-year examina- |

tions the dean asks all members of the teach-
ing staff to give him the names and the points
of special weaknesses of students in their
courses who are not meeting the requirement
stated above. From the reports handed in a
general list is compiled. The members of the
English department then confer with those re-
ported and suggest to them means of improve-
ment. Towards the end of the academic year

assume, A brave man takes up afms and enters
the open field, but a dastardly coward masks
himself behind smiles and stabs in the dark.
| My honest opinion is that we had more to hope
{from Lincoln than any man north, and if we
are compelled to submit, let it be to a brave

and magnanimous foe, for is it possible for a |

sane man to rejoice when his best ‘friend in
power’ is struck low by the fell knife of the
assassin?”

These letters present fresh evidence, Dr. War-
|ren said, of the fact that many men and women
of the South were as deeply grieved and
lahoateet by the assassination of Abraham Lin-
|cotn as the people of the North.

‘Mr. Francis Harmon
| Is Guest of College

enter the ministry, and advised them to consider | amhedndividual rectitenweres

three points in making their decision. “These,” | State—Daniels, 184; Leroy, 178; Stone, 175;
he said, “are a consideration of personal quali- | Whitehead, 174; Pleasants, 174; Nail, 174.
two of the latter three counted in the
{team total.)

“Face these. questions hon- | Davidson—Graham, 178; Green, 174; Wiley,
estly and seriously,” he urged. 173: Brohard, 172; Mills, 163.

Col. W. R. Scott Is |
| Appointed to Camp

fications, whether  providential circumstances | (Oni
enabled the student to fit himself properly, and £
| finally, the motive.”

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS
| (Continued from page 1)
Licut.-Col. W. R. Scott, commandant of the | throughout the dinner with vin rouge, eau de
R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson College, has re- | Vigney, and biere. : ite
ceived notice from the U. S. War Department The hors @ocuyres were: sardines a huile,
of his appointment, for the fourth consecutive | S@uctssons divers, beurre normand, salade de
year, to the post of camp commander at Fort |tomatos, concombres au persil, olives espagnols,
McClellan, near Anniston, Ala., for the summer |¢t celeri en branches, The salad was laitue et

and concludes on Juiy 20th. | pommes de terre, poisonns, fromage de Rocque-

encampment of 1932, which begins on June 19th | tomates. The remainder of the dinner was:

Supper: Beans and rice.

Thursday
Breakfast: Grayy and grits.
Dinner: Bones, beans, and rice.
Supper: Rice and beans.

Friday

Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Bones, beans, and rice.
Supper: Beans and bones.

Saturday
Breakfast: Gravy and grits.
Dinner: Rice.
Supper: Beans and bones.

Sunday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy with grapefruit.
Dinner: Rice, sweet potatoes, bones.
Supper: Paper bags.

a practical test is given to all students on the | Speaker Is Secretary of the Interna-

list. In this test special attention is given to | tional Y. M. C. A.

’ spelling, punctuation and other fundamental as-
pects of usage.
“The advantages of the plan are several. In-
stead of being observed in only one or two de-
partments of study, each student's use of Eng-

lish is under quiet supervision in all classes |

throughout his college course. Official respon-
sibility is thus shared by all members of the
faculty, though the burden actually borne by
those who do not teach English is very light.
Their duty is simply to report students to the
dean. The student is held to strict accountabil-
ity. Accurate writers are made as well as born,
and almost every student worthy to be in col-
lege can and will measure up to a satisfactory
standard of English usage if he is required—
not merely urged—to write and speak accept-
ably. When college seriously takes an official
stand in the matter, the right use of language
is effectively impressed upon the careless stu-
dent, who learns at last that he is facing not a
formal artificial requirement of one academic
department, but a body of doctrine to be-mas-
tered and regularly applied in daily communi-
cation,

Wherever the general plan outlined here may

be adopted, it can easily be varied in ‘ts par- |

ticulars according to the views of different
teaching staffs. The one thing needful is co-
operation, and the secret of securing it seems
to lie in making participation easy for those
faculty members who do not. teach English.

Dr. Vermont Speaks
To French Students

Converse Professor Tendered Recep-
tion at Conclusion of His
Address

Dr. A. Vermont, head of the department of
French at Converse College, was a guest of Le
Cercle Francais, honorary organization of lead-
ing French students at Davidson College, on
Tuesday evening, and delivered an address be-
fore the society and interested guests in the
auditorium of Chambers Building at 8 o'clock.
His talk was given in the French language and
was on some phase of French life. Dr. Ver-
mont addressed some of the advanced classes
in French on Wednesday morning.

The Converse professor is a native of Bel-
gium, and before going to the South Carolina
institution he was a member of the. University
of North Carolina faculty. He is a frequent
visitor to Europe, generally making an annual

) ff

| —_—_—————_
| Mr. Francis Harmon, secretary of the Inter-
{national Y. M. C. A., spoke at chapel Monday
| morning, The subject of his talk was, “Respon-
| sibilities of Youth.” He quoted Colonel Burch,
prominent in the Montreal “Y,” who
“Youth the world over has struck its tents and
is on the march.”

He recalled the of President
Hoover who claims, “That life goes the way
that youth finally takes.” He urged the students
to allow the good influences of home and school
help them to march along and make the best
contribution to life possible.

Dr. Harmon spent 19 months in France and
came into contact with war in all its horror.
He recognizes the futility of war and because
he felt he could be of more service in the “Y”
he left his position as a newspaperman in Mis-
sissippi to forward the program of the Young
Men's Christian Association.

“In the South people are inclined to limit
| their thinking to the particular state in which
|they live,” he asserted. It is true that the pri-
| mary responsibility is for the state, but the na-
jtion, and the world should not be overlooked.

also words

|

| We are all neighbors and it is the task of
ithe “Y” to bind the people of the earth closer
| together, How true it is, he declared, “that no
nation liveth to itself and no nation dieth te
itself.” Yet, he continued, there are some peo-
| ple who would like to build a great Chines?
| wall around the United States.
| The three contributions of the Young Men’s
| Christian Association to the world are: Interna-
tional good-will, practical racial judgment, and
better co-operation.

In closing he advised the students to accept

trip, and is thoroughly familiar with conditions
in the Old World. At the conclusion of his ad-
dress Tuesday night, he was tendered a recep-
tion by Le Cercle Francais in the Quadwrang-
lers club room in Chambers Building.
Bringing Dr. Vermont to Davidson by the

| French organization is a continuation of their
|

|

| policy of annually offering some noted speaker
to the membership of the society, as well as to
others interested in, this language. Prof. Rene
Hardee, of the N. C, C. W. faculty at Greens-
boro, has been here on several occasions, and
some natives of France and Switzerland ‘have
spoken here.

Officers of Le Cercle Francais are Roscoe
Prince, of Raleigh, president; Chas. F. Myers,
Jr., of Greensboro, vice-president, and L, N.
Hand, Jr., of East Spencer, secretary-treasurer.

6

said, |

Colonel Scott will have under his supervision |
25 officers and approximately 800 students from
college and university R. O. T. C. units south
of Kentucky and Virginia and east of the
Mississippi River. Generally about 30 different
institutions are represented at the camp. Fol-!

Scott will return to Davidson for a month be- |
fore reporting in Washington, D. C., on August

: : ; mess |
Industrial College. He will conclude his four- |

relieved by Major John T. Rhett. |

Other local military officials have also re-!
ceived their orders for the summer months, |
Captain W. L. Blanton’ and Captain Chas. w. |
Seifirt will report to Fort McClellan and con- |
tinue their work under Colonel Scott. Captain |
IF. M. Cochran has been delegated to attend
the Citizens Military Training Camp at Fort
Bragg.

Dr. Walter L. Tiinele
To Fill Engagements

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson
College, has a busy three weeks ahead of him
on the platform, his speaking engagtments be-
ing featured by his acceptance of an invitation
to deliver greetings from the colleges and uni-
versities of North Carolina at the inauguration
of Dr. Howard R. Omwake as president of
Catawba College on Saturday, April 16th.

Next Tuesday the Davidson president will
appear before the Concord Presbytery twice at
its meeting at’ Thyatira Presbyterian Church.
He will deliver the opening sermon Tuesday
morning for Dr. J. Moore McConnell, dean of
ee Davidson faculty and moderator of the Pres-

| bytery, and that night he will speak.to the same |~

| body on the subject, “Religious Education.”

| This will be followed by a series of com-
| mencement addresses. He appears as speaker
|hefore the Waxhaw High School on April
| 22nd, On April 24th he delivers the commencée-
ment sermon to the Paw. Creek High School,
and on the 29th he delivers the baccalaureate
address to the Claremont High School. The
Davidson president is already booked for a
larger number of engagements during the
month of May.

the captaincy of the One who’gives eternal life.
A beautiful ending to the timely message

by Van Dyke. \

fort, patisserics assorties, et pain francais. Be-
cause of Lent there were no meats.

lowing the closing of the summer camp, Colonel |

year stay at, Davidson this June, and will be}.

College President Will Spend Three |
Weeks on Tour |

was
a description of the King’s Highway as paintafl

This cafe is highly recommended by all mem-
bers of Le Cercle Francais. It has special

ee for societies and has a la carte service

at all hours. Telephone Guternberg 32-41.
At a short business meeting at the end of

the dinner, the club voted unanimously to ad-

mit Mms, Goldiere and Watts as honorary

. . - | » >
20th, where he will study next year in the Army | ™ mbers to Le Cercle.

New Brunswick, N. J—(1P)—Rutgers Uni-
versity has recently dedicated a new $700,000
gymnasium, erected on the spot where Rutgers
and Princeton played the first game of inter-
collegiate football in 1869.

@) Complele Service
for School Publications
Qnnuals
Nangazines

Catalogs
\ eu Books

nCily PrintingCo.

‘Quee
| Charlotte, 2.C.

Cstablished 169%

“DRUGS” “SODA”
| Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
iS . ve.
£3 12
Davidson - Theatre
Presents
The
Choicest
~ Pictures
Come Here For Your Entertainment
ta ta

