6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

Installation of New “Y”
Men Is Held at Vespers

Message on “Power” Delivered by
Prof. J, P. Williams

At an inspiring vesper service last Sunday
night the new officers and the new cabinet for
the 1932-33 Y. M. C. A. were installed. Paul
Brown, president ; Duck Powell and Rufus Mor-
row, vice-presidents, are the officers who are
to carry forward the splendid work done by the
retiring men. Following are the names of the
men who have been chosen as the new cabinet
for next Duck Powell, Deputations ;
Rufus Morrow, World Evangelism; Gene Can-
non, Sunday Schools; Jerome Clarke, Fresh-
man Work; Bill Flinn, Social Life; Bob Glas-
gow, Social Center; Ed  Guerrant, Chapel
Services; John Howard and Leland McKeithan, !
Student Life; Jake Mackorell, Attendance;
Charlie Myers, Publications, and Bruce Pea-
body, Boys’ Work.

The service was opened by a violin quartet.
The members, Horace Erwin, Donald Leper,
Charles Reed, and Byron Schriver,

year:

rendered |
“Sweet Hour of Prayer” as a beginning for
the important service. Immediately after this
music, the audience sang “Take Time to Be
Holy” and ‘What Will You Give to Jesus 2”
in a beautiful song service. Tom Mclean then
read the scripture, Romans 12:1-14. The theme
verse of this selection is: | beseech ye there-
fore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye
present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy ac-
ceptable unto God, which is your. reasonable
servaec,

The prayers for the night were offered ty
Stanley Hoffman and Bob Coit.

As second number the violins rendered
“Air Melo Dieux,” while all present listened
in pleasure,

When the musie had ended, Prof, J. RY Wile
liams, an ex-general secretary of the Davidson
“Y." gave the Installation Message. His first
thoughts as he arose were those of harmeny
and working together of true men. This addy
reminded him of the true harmony found in a
Persian rug. He said: “A Persian boy once
came to Davidson and by his lessons learned
in harmonizing from his rugs became a leader
among the student body and gave his talents |
as gifts to the work of the school.” |

Professor Williams then gave five condensed |
thoughts which he believed would be of greatest
service to the new men during their work in|
the coming year. First was “Perseverance.” One|
of the first things considered in a man for the |
Y.M.C. A. Cabinet is “will he stick or go only |
half-way ?” The second thought was “Observa- |
tion.” A, leader has to do more than just see
the people he is serving. To be of the greatest
service to them, the leader must have the power |
of seeing inside of the man, Third was “Word |
of Witness.” Without the Necessary witnessing
for Jesus Christ a Christian Jeader cannot go
far, The fourth was “Enthusiasm,” With all
other virtues and not enthusiasm a man will
become discouraged and fail, The fifth thing
was “Right Relation with God.” “This thought
is already known to the men here tonight,” said
Professor Williams. “Prayer and communica- |
tion with God is essential to a leader.” . |

|
The beginning letters of each of these thoughts |
spell “Power,” for the carrying on of the glory |
of Jesus Christ. Professor Williams said: “Re- |
member that the whole student body will sup-
port you and help you to work together for unity |
and service to Jesus.”
The retiring president, Roger Enloe, told of |
how he felt a: year gao when he stood upon |
the platform with the work ahead of the cab- |
inet. Then with the year’s work past he was)
reminded of many successes and pleasant mem- |
ories. The old cabinet’s aim was to make jesus |
Christ known to every man on the campus. |
Enloe then expressed his feeling of sadness
he and the cabinet were to turn over the work
to the new cabinet, and expressed his apprecia-
tion for the support of the student body, with- |
out whose aid succéss would not :

possible.
He then expressed best; wishes to P

as |

have been.

s aul Brown |
and his new cabinet and hoped that they would |

cherish the work with an earnestness and zeal |
which would: lead to purer, higher and: nobler
expressions of Jesus.

Paul Brown, the new president, arose and ac-
cepted the task for himself and his cabinet, and
expressed the earnestness with which they would
go forward with the work,

He then announced the names of the new cab-

‘inet men. They arose from the front seats of |

Speakers for Spring

Services

Sunday, lapril 24—Dr. W. T. Thomp-
son.

Monday, April 25—Dr. Charles My-
ers, |

Tuesday, April: 26—Dr. H. W. Du-
Bose.

Wednesday, April 27—Dr. Samuel M.
Glasgow. °

Freshman Baseball
Team Downs P. J. C.

Wildkittens Have Not Lost a Game
This Season

On last Friday afternoon the Freshman base-
ball team won a very decisive victory over the
Presbyterian Junior College nine, 14 to 4, thus
adding one more game to their undefeated rec-
ord, :

The Presbyterians used four pitchers in their
attempts to stop the endless flow of hits slapped

out by the Wildkittens, all of which was futile, |

for the Freshmen, before the~last out was
marked, had slugged 15 hits to only five for the
opponents. Johnny Mackorell led the list with
a homer, a triple and a single, while Bumgar-
ner followed closely with a homer and two
singles. Other safe knocks were made by Rogers,
Morris, Morgan, Harris, and Wingfield.

Pres. Jr. College INV We (Ol NAD
HGrgusOnh ass) sancsuoe Neate) Reece’ ata feg rans Pose |
WiAIETISON spr ebss seseOn le) ees)
PithOb esc sece uses ue (Bois) Leet nba tn La 74
Havingtal Deseac sucesso pees) Mesnard Eg eae Ora 2)
Gampbellyelty 2b: cossescu Seen ale eZ.s. ae,
Bethea ct sec eee SS 7 poake Octal td Bes ( Ute 0)
Ralinena path sessceususceos0) 10.22 0) 0
AOheWS)e pp title eoeees Se} (Io (0)
DAVISMOb cde s cole scuso ss BO Os wo One 0)
MESNCCU mc casebeeessoue Lee 0:2 00 0s es0)
Ota S secon eso ecseu nk SG e tae Seed Qe S
Davidson Fresh Abe Re Sh Ona
ROMERA Cire Scere Bee Zenon (jean ecm
SUfimarneric cl scestuace Once aie oe ()
Mackoréliizss: s.cseccese qe ore ans a) 1
MOthSteliecueceeeusoonat 0 215 0 ()
MGONRaieGb eamewesterec4s ge le) an Gee()
Ravenel th sesesouesaceo. Otel 1 iL (0)
BUPSi iG Sores Sessa oN Dr a (mesHe gee?
WiGeksat lige -eaSace tus tees} 1 1 (0) (0
Taptisi@pesssangosucueeso lene ee lee)
WalkKGbe press tease Seer 10 Oe 0 222.2)
Withvalitdldl, ti DI 10 Oe 0H
KGGHis, 10) aeons eee) 0 20 0
Bverett eli cosas ea 0 (7 (H) (0) 0
MIGGSSOM ese Wes (Oth (0) (0) (0)
OtalSiceuss en eee AR GE SIN 7A oly 28 36}
**Batted for Palmer.
*Batted for Everett.
resbyteniasseesescess ose 301 000 000— 4
Davidson Fresh ~-2-7-_-___- 070 002 41x—14

the auditorium and seated themselves upon the
platform.

“nr

The ‘Y’ belongs to the student body,” Brown
said, “and they realize that nothing could be
accomplished without the student body support.”
He hoped that the new leaders could pick up
where the old left off and go to even greater
heights. He asked for the support given in the
past and then pledged himself and his cabinet
to their whole expression into the work.
Brown then made a plea for everyone to re-

move all damgaing habits, if they had any, and

each pledge his heart to come closer to Jesus |

Christ.

The audience joined in silent prayer and then

the Mizpah Benediction was pronounced.

Death of Friends

It is with sincere regret that the
recent deaths of Dr. J. E. Watson,
father of Ansley Watson of the Junior
class, and Mrs, E. B. Garrett, mother
of Edwin Garrett of the Freshman
class, is learned. Dr. Watson was a
prominent physician of Anderson, S.
C., and Mrs. Garrett was of Greens-
boro, but died of heart trouble in
Waco, Texas, while visiting her mother,

Our hearts extend deepest sympathy
to these students and their families in
their bereavement.

Physics Speaker

As announced last week Dr. W. S.
Lee, formerly of New York and now
a resident of Charlotte, will address
the Davidson Alpha Chapter of Sigma
Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity,
in Chambers Auditorium at 8 p. m.,
next Thursday, April 21. Dr. Lee, one
of three outstanding hydro-electric en-
gineers of America, has recently been
made an honorary member of Sigma
Pi Sigma.

| TINY N. C. BAPTIST ALMANAC

Recently the writer gave some interesting

jreading, the pages of the North Carolina Al-

|manac for 1869. People smiled as they said. |

“How few officers the State had then and at

what an astonishingly small expense it conduct-
fed the public business.” Now comes another
| story, from the tiny North Carolina Baptist
| Almanac for 1865, compiled by Rey. Needham
B. Cobb, the gifted father of the equally gifted
Prof. Colier Cobb of the University of North
Carolina—Globe-trotter and Philosopher.

The almanac is four by six inches, has 38
pages and is printed on light brown paper made
at the Neuse River Paper Mills, at Milbournie,

near Raleigh. It gives the “Government of
| North Carolina” as the following, officers: Z. B.

Vance, governor,.Avith his military aides, David
A. Barnes and George Little, and Private See-
retary M. S. Robbins; Charles R. Thomas, sec-
retary of state; Jonathan Worth, treasurer ;
/Curtis HH. Brogden, comptroller; Richard H.
| Battle, auditor; Oliver TH. Perry, state libra-
G;
whom there was a list of military officers. The
latter W. B. Gulick, John
Devereux and James Sloan, quartermasters ;
D. Hogg, commissary and ordnance
officer; James EH, Foote, keeper of the “Roll
of Honor” (of North Carolina’s soldiers in the
army); John B. Neathery, state printer.

rotehays 1K,

were paymaster ;

Thomas

On the Supreme Court bench were Chief
Justice R. M. Pearson and Associate Justices
William HH. Battle and Matthais KE. Manly,

| with Sion H. Rogers, attorney general, and Ed-
|mund B. Freeman, clerk. This court met in
| Raleigh on the second. Monday in each June.
| There had been also a term at Morganton, but
| this had been discontinued. The Superior Court
| judges of the eight districts were Edwin G,
| Reade, Romulus M. Saunders, Robert Heath,
Robert S. French, James W. Osborne, George
Howard, William M. Shipp, Robert B. Gilliam.

—By Col. Fred A. Olds, in The Prison News.

FRIDAY

The past has handed down Friday to us as

|crucified on that day. Tradition, ever ready ac-
complice of superstition, would have us believe
|that—it was on Friday that Adam and Eve ate
| the forbidden fruit. In Europe Friday is the
| black sheep of all the days of the week. This
lopinion is also held by the Buddhists anc
| Brahmins. In England, for many centuries, it
was hangman's day. Despite all’ these events,
and others that might be added, Friday is just
jas good, just as lucky a day as any of the other

|
|rose to sing a hymn of consecration, Afterwards | six. Dickens tells us that nearly all the good |

In Scot-
weddings,

{things in his life occurred on Friday.
| land it the fayorite day for
| Shakespeare and Washington were born on Fri-

is

|day. Columbus first saw the new world that
day. It was on Friday that the Pilgrims landed,

jand later the Declaration of Independence was ,

| signed.—The Leader,

Hamilton, N. Y.—(UP)— Plans are being
| a wie .
made at Colgate University to extend the
|newly instituted preceptorial plan of study

,for freshmen because of the success it has} years ago, when the movement started, the vile | Beyond the Bank

|attained this far.

| Under the new plan there are, in addition) dren, It was $14,000 in debt for education. This |
182 class work, informal discussions between) debt was wiped out and the village now has a’!
faculty members and students on the reading | school which cost $22,500. Meanwhile, since the |

Gatling, adjutant general, under?

an unlucky day, due to the fact that Jesus was |

Buck Mills Elected
President “D” Club

Members Choose Jack Wagner as
Vice-President of Organization

At recent meetings of the “D” Club, Buck

Mills was elected president and Jack Wagner
vice-president of that organization. George
Baily, Jack ‘Wagner, and Earl Bradsher were
the other nominees for president, while George
Baily, Bill Flinn, and Charles Pearce were
the unsuccessful candidates for vice-president.
| Mills served this year as vice-president of
‘the Athletic Association, made his letter in foot-
ball, and is regular shortstop on the baseball
‘team. Last year he made letters in football and
baseball. He member of the Pi Kappa&
| Alpha social fraternity.
Wagner will probably be, at the end of this
lyear, the only four-letter man in college. Last
| year he made letters in football and golf, and
this year, having already made letters in foot-
hall and basketball, he is a regular on both the
track and golf teams. He also is a Pi Kappa
| Alpha.

The “D” Club will elect its secretary-treas-
urer after this issue of the Davidsonian has al-

is a

ready gone to press.

Scabbard and Blade
Elects Twelve Men

The annual spring election of the Scabbard
Blade, honorary military fraternity,
been held, and last Monday, April 18, bids were

and has
issued.

The following Seniors were elected: Hal Har-
ris, Pete Knox, and Allen Graham.

The following Juniors were given bids: Bill
Flinn, Paul Brown, Bruce Peahody, George
saily, Mack Manson, Fred Ogden, R. E.
oley, Chuck Wright, and Brooke Allen,

“These recent pledges with the present mem- |

at a banquet given last

Wednesday afternoon in honor of Colonel Little,

bers were present
inspecting officer for this year. However, the
jdate of the initiation of these twelve has not
yet been set.

| ‘This is the last election of this honorary so-
icity to be held until next fall.

|

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

ie (Continued from page 1)
| Lee, of Ronceverte, W. Va., Sigma Phi Epsilon.
The retiring members of the council are: FE.
Z. DuBose, of Camden, S. C.; Caldwell Roane,
of Winston-Salem; R. Kemp Morton, of
Charleston, W. Va.; Nat G. Spier, of Charlotte ;
|Ed D. Kuykendall, of Greensboro; Allen
| Whitehead, of Wilmington; Floyd G, Jenkins,
|of Winston-Salem; H. M. Wilson, of Staunton,
!Va.; E. Brice Robinson, Jr., of Talladega, Ala.,
jand E, S. Bettis, of Morristown, Tenn.
| The new council for 1932-1933 will not ‘begin
ito function until September of this year, due to
| the fact that there will be only one more group
}of socials before school closes, and these enter-
|tainments, which are Finals, will be under the
}supervision of the retiring council.

|

SUCCESSFUL SCHEDULE

(Continued from page !)

| vice-president; Fred Hellegers, secretary and
debate manager, and Skip Brown, treasurer. The
{council is sponsoring an oratorical contest at

Davidson May 3rd, to decide the champion ora-

tor of the school. All men except Freshmen are |

eligible to compete in this contest.

JAP VILLAGE WILL STAY DRY

The village of Kawaidani, in the silkworm
| district of Japan, has just taken its second oath
| to

abstain from liquor for five years. Five

|lage was too poor to build a school for its chil-

of books and the writing of essays. Accord- | town went dry, savings deposits have increased

| ing to President George Barton Cutten, it is | $29,000 and postal savings $4,700. That has been | Barber Shop

jan attempt.to develop each student “intel-j|an oft-told tale in this country,

| lectually as a whole.”

but many have
\forgotten it. :

Con- |

DRS. SENTELLE AND RICHARDS

(Continued from page 4)

been approached about this personal assignment
involving a personal expenditure, and the alumni
are hereby advised that as a precautionary
measure it would be best to bring their nickels
and dimes if they want to shell peanuts into a
/soft drink bottle.)

As a final word to the general public, the
faculty members have asked the reporter to la-
ment at length the dire loss of the services of
Capt. J. A. Otto and Prof. Ernest J. Cullum,
valuable members of the nine last year. Both
Captain Otto. and Professor Cullum connected
with the baseball hide on frequent occasions
in last year’s game and did a nice fielding job.
Captain Otto won first honors in the slugfest,
and Professor Cullum did a noble job at field-
ing in the shortstop position.

Visiting alumni who are members of the med-

ical profession are asked to sit on: the bench
Wednesday afternoon, June Ist, and administer _
whatever relief is possible while the individual”
| faculty members are awaiting their turn at the
bat.
After reading some of the above the alumni
| may be inclined to remark, “It ain’t so,” but
they are asked by the faculty to visit here on
| Alumni Day of Commencement and see a new
version of the national pastime.

FRATERNITIES STAGE
SPRING HOUSE PARTY

(Continued from pgae 1)

New Bern, N. C.; Miss Caroline Kirkpatrick,
Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Eleanor Sell, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Miss Lib Duffy.

| Pi Kappa Phi: Miss Alice Grubbs, Eda Wal-
‘ters, Miss Katherine Bonitz, Miss Agnes Leake,
‘all from Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Anna
| Lisk, Miss Ethel Begg, Miss Sarah Thompson,
fall Charlotte; Miss Susan McClain, Miss
Frances Folley, Aberdeen, N. C.; Miss Sarah
Horton, Monroe, N. C.; Miss Nancy Lanes,
Pillsboro, N. C.; Miss Eula Mae Jones, Wil-
son, N. C.; Miss Louise Melchor, Mooresville,

Rose

ol

N. C.; Miss Bleeca Malone,’ Chester, S. C.;
and Mary Duval, Cheraw, S. C.
Kappa Sigma: Miss Adelaide Fortune,

Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Agnes Leake, Greens-
boro, N. C.; Miss Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N.
C.; Miss Maggie Morson, Charlotte, N. C.;
Miss Frances Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; Miss
Louise Galloway, Winston-Salme, N. C.; Miss
Rosebud Liede, Atlanta, Ga.; Miss Jane Stock-
ard, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Bebe Hyde,
Charleston, S. C.; Miss Eleanor Stone, Char-
lotte, N. C. vic} e
Theta Upsilon Omega: Miss Anne Hoover,
Concord, N. C.; Miss Beth Gatewood, Reids-
ville, N. C.; Miss Mary B. Williams, Salem,
N. C.; Miss Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.;
Miss Biddy Mattox, Charlotte; Miss Nell
Rieves, Charlotte; Miss Martha Mann, Salem,
N. C.; Miss Gertrude Ross, Concord, N.C.
and Miss Virginia Shallum, Lincolnton, N. C.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Laura Lee Pat-
itello, Atlanta; Louise Tate, Charlotte; Eliza-
i beth Conway, Henderson, Ky.; Anna Preston,
Charlotte ; Mary McCoy, Concord; Elizabeth
| Price; Charlotte; Sheila Elliot, Tampa, Fla. ;
| Sue Maxwell, Spartanburg; Martha Clark,
| Fayetteville.
Beta Theta Pi: Misses Ida Patterson, Con-
lcord; Babe Taylor, High Point; Susan Petty,
Boykin, Charlotte; Nancy

Converse; Fuzzy

| Moore, Gastonia.

|

Four Out of Five College Men
| Visit Our, Shop

|
Johnson’s

)

Seniors!
GET YOU

See P. M. CONWAY or D. G.

Representin g

GARLAN

ENGRAVED CARDS for
COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS

Prices $2.50 and $3.00

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MARTIN

D COURT

Stetson “D” Store

Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s

Clothes For the College Man

