THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

TREKKING WEST

EDITORS CRASH MOVIE GATES
IN HOLLYWOOD

By JACK WILLIAMS,*Jr.————

“Coming face to face with the stars of Hol-
lywood was our experience at a luncheon
given by the Motion Picture Producers’ As-
sociation at the Hollywood Writers Club on
Sunset Boulevard7

Louis B. Mayer, president of the Associa-
tion of Motion Picture Producers and chief
executive of M. G. M., addressed the group.
He praised the vigilance and progressiveness
of the nation’s newspapers, declaring that
newsprint and motion pictures were two of
the greatest agencies of education in the
world today.

Conrad“ Nagel was introduced following
Mayer’s speech and assumed the task. of
master of ceremonies. Some of the other
producers present were Winfield Sheehan,
David O. Selznick, Joseph M. Schenck, J. L.
Warner, Carl Laemmle, Jr., Emanuel Cohen,
Hal Roach, Samuel Goldwin, Earl W. Ham-
mons, Harry Cohn, Mack Sennett, and How-
ard Hughes.

GALA SCENE

Bright-colored umbrellas shaded scores of
tables dotting the
while listening to the strains of an orchestra
and feasting our eyes on Hollywood's pul-
chritude and talent. Dew collected from
lofty mountain crags sparkled in the glasses.
This crystal nectar is called Sparklettes.

The paper stated that ten thousand Holly-
woodites crowded the streets and rooftops
to catch a glimpse of the stars as they dis-
niounted from their automobiles at the door-
step of the Writers Club.

Hollywood opened its doors and the stu-
dios holding fast the secret of ‘her genius
were flung open too. Each studio sent forth
its most glamorous and exotic stars. It was
a gala’ scene with the outstanding members
of Hollywood's social and cenematic world
mingled with the crowd.

STARS PRESENTED

Among the galaxy of celebrities appearing
in the.Hollywoéd Citizen who took part in
the performance which followed were: Rob-
ert Montgomery, Clark Gable, Jean Harlow,
Joan Marsh, John Miljan, Anita Page, Polly
Moran, Buster Keaton, Ramon Navarro,
Lawrence Grant, May Robson, Johnny Weis-
muller, Robert Young, Jimmy Durante, and
Colleen Moore from M. G. M.

From R. K. O. studio were Delores Del
Rio, Roscoe Ates, “Joel McCrea, Ann Hard-
ing, Fay Wray, Tom Keene, Kay Johnson,
Gwili Andre, Arlene Judge.

Paramount was represented by Tallulah
Bankhead, the Four Marx Brothers, Bing
Crosby, Irving Pichel, Burns and Allen, Sari
Maritza, Stuart Erwin, Sylvia Sydney, Cary

Grant, Charles Ruggles, Richard Bennett,
Richard Arlen, Jack Oakie and Philip
Holmes,

Eddie Cantor in person arrived from the
studio-of-Samuel- Goldwyn;

Then the Universal's stars appeared. They
were Toi Mix, Lewis Ayres, Boris Karloff,
Gloria Stuart, Sidney Fox, Paul Lukas, June
Clyde, Slim *Summerville, Charles Murray,
Tala Birell, Fom Brown, and Russell Hopton.
MORE CELEBRITIES

From Warner’ Brethers-First
there appeared William Powell, Kay Francis,
Chic Sale, Paul Muni, Edward G. Robinson,
Joe E. Brown, Joan Blondell, and Helen
Vincent. ‘

Fox Films sent Janet Gaynor, Charles
Farrell, Elissa Landi, George O’Brien, Paul
Roulien, Minna Gombell, James Dunn, and
Sally Eilers.

“Our Gang” came toddling in from Hal
Roach, with Charlie Chase, Thelma Todd,
and Zazu Pitts.

Educational was represented by Harry
Langdon, and Andy Clyde.

Mack Sennett’s contribution was Dorothy
Grainger and Babe Kane. 2
NEWS VERSION

Like a mighty CAVALCADE from a tri-
umph of war, the National Editorial: Asso-
ciation arrived-in Hollywood today.

From every boulevard and BACK STREET
came citizens to’ greet the throng.

“WHAT PRICE HOLLYWOOD” shouted
an editor, carried away by the emotional
fervor of the reception.

And just then, CYNARA appeared radiant-
ly beautiful on the stage.

Well-nigh HYPNOTIZED,
gazed in awe.

Unabashed, THE NEW YORKER ad-
art to the edge of the onlookers.

“MAKE ME A STAR,” he pleaded in-
siduously.

But only a STRANGE INTERLUDE foll

_ lowed this outburst.

“He’s MOVIE. CRAZY,” whispered an ed-
itor’s wife.

Withered before a thousand scornful eyes,

the crowd

lawn where we dined}

National] ~

the intruder drank THE BITTER TEA OF
GENERAL YEN and slunk into the street.

OUR GANG stepped into the breach and
restored order.

MR. ROBINSON CRUSOE flailed his
arms for attention and roared an invitation
to the Utopia of all editors— a desert island.

Which, “HAPPY
ENDING.”

Heidda Hoppa: said the stars were mbre
frightened at appearing before the editors
than in their pictures. Each  stat-present
made a short talk and some of them were
unusually good. Nearly all the stars were in
Hollywood»then with the exception of Joan
Crawford, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Maurice
Chevalier, and Stanley and Oliver Hardy.

Sidney Fox and Gloria Stuart were espe-
cially nice and autographed my program.

BORIS KARLOFF

Boris Karloff, the terrible monster in
Frankenstein, was at +a table back of ours
and it was with fear and trembling that I
asked him for his autograph. But he was
very cordial and granted my request. He is
the most mysterious personage in the film
capital. He is a man of silence,’with a qual-
ity of quietness which at times seems almost
deadly.

He is never seen at premieres but seeks
seclusion in the mountains where there will
be few contacts. He has few friends and
acquaintances in Hollywood. I hear that he
spends a great deal of time creating strange
disguises, for he is by nature a recluse and
stands apart from the seething life of the
film capital.

all remarked, was a

Here are a few items about some of the
stars and celebrities. Clark Gable is sport-
ing a new shiny roadster. ... El Brendel end-
ed his speech when called on a la Garbo,
“Ay tank Ay go héme now.” . Polly
Moran wore earrings at the suggestion of
Lil Tashman. . . . Lovely Heidda Hoppar is
running for the County Central Committee
from the Los Angeles district . . . 95 stars
tested to play in Red Dust with Gable and
Harlow and Mary Astor was selected . .
Silvia Fox looks like Sylvia Sydney and rity,
get each other’s mail but refuse to change
their names . . . Bing Crosby denies being
a-crooner ... Groucho, Harpo, Zeppo and
Chico have a dog named Kayo . . . Greta
Nissen is causing considerable gossip. in the
film colony by going a-hunting for an apart-
ment all by her lonesome ... Durante is
popularly known as “Snozzle’ among the
stars .;. Tala Birell is related to the royal
family of Austria... Joan Blondell’s favorite
sport is trout fishing ... Ann Harding has
had her phone disconnected since her di-
vorce and until just lately has not been “in”
to friends.

After the program given at the Writers
Club we began a happy trek to the studios
where the remainder of the afternoon was
spent.

High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS.’
SHOE SHOP

The Silver Siceon

Wednesday, Nov. 16—Scarlet Dawn—
(Warner)

This story, adapted from Mary McCall’s
novel, is concerned with’ -the difficulties of
a_young officer of the Tsar’s guards as he
faces the issues of the revolution. He final-
ly marries one of his servants (Nancy Car-

roll) and becomes-a—son-—of..toil_instead_of.

Recent Gift

Mr. George F. Robertson, an alum-
nus of the class of 1878, was a visitor
at Homecoming last Saturday, and
while here he presented the Davidson-
ian staff with a book of his own au-
thorship. The book is entitled “A Small
Boy’s Recollections of the Civil War,”
and is written from the author’s own
experiences.

Franklin D. Roosevelt
Prominent as Student

Cleveland, O—President-elect Franklin D.
Roosevelt is recalled by many Harvard Uni-
versity graduates here as the “Rosy” of their
college days.

Rob Roy Alexander, Cleveland investment
broker who was in the same class with
Roosevelt and served as a class officer with
esident elect;-teHs-of-some- of -his rec-

becoming a Paris taxi driver.

The story, although rather weak as a
whole, possesses some very well imagined
moments.

Douglas Fairbanks. as the young officer
plays his part very well. He also helped
Niven Busch, Jr., write the adaptation.

Thursday, Nov. 17/—Red Dust—(M-G-M)

Red Dust succeeds in giving Clark Gable
and Jean Harlow an opportunity to display
that curiously similar_sort of good-natured
toughness that is common to both of them.

The story takes place on a rubber planta-
tion in Indo-China. Harlow, Gable, Mary
Astor, and Gene Raymond are all implicated
in the rather brazen moral mix-up that re-
sults from the efforts of Gable.

Harlow’s effortless vulgarity, humor and
slovenliness make for her a noteworthy char-
acterization. She does perhaps her best act-
ing to date in this picture.

Friday, Nov. 18—They Call It Sin—(First

National)

Another version of the story of the small-
town girl who falls in love with a man from
the city and on following him back to the
city finds that he is already engaged to a
debutante. However, -she soon finds out
what a person of her accomplishments can
do on Broadway.

Besides possessing Loretta Young and two
leading men (David Manners and George
Brent) this picture also has the one and
.Jonly Una Markel who contributes consid-
erably to the entertainment value.

Saturday, Nov. 19—I Am a Fugitive From a
Chain Gang—(Warner)

The producers do not mince matters nor
is there any of the usual bowing to popular
appeal in this vehement attack on convict
camps, At several points one might be jus-
tified in assuming that the cruelty of the
guards is exaggerated, however, the sight of
scores of men working with shackled ankles
is. enough to make much of the narrative

seem credible.

ened in him, James Allen (Paul Muni), an
ex-sergeant in the A. E. F., is the victim of
circumstances and is convicted and impris-

oned. He escapes and becomes affiliated

.| with a bridge-building concern in Chicago.

He is exposed and sent back to prison and
escapes again, but by this time he is a
broken man,

Many of the scenes are very realistic. One
of the pathetic results that follows prison life
is revealed. The staggering gait that the
felons inherit as a result of the thirteen links

that connect their ankles,

“DRUGS”

Student

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc...

“SODAS”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

3 VEE

Drawers. SAMSONBACK

can be done.

MCCHHXHHHXCHZXZX€XTTH@ttlla

Ye

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more_than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit o
Athletic Union Suits with the
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious
to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

Shirts and
tug-of-war

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

After having the creative instinct awak- |-®

The gift is eens: aneveatatba by
the staff.

Monday, Nov. 21—Rackety Rax—(Fox)

“This is a brilliant travesty on college foot-
ball and racketeering.” It is taken from Joel
Sayre’s brief novel.

Knucks McGloin (Victor McLaglen) de-
cides that he must havesa football team, so
he founds Carnarsie University end converts
all his gang into football players. After a
very successful season he agrees to play a
post-season gdme with the heretofore un-
heard-of Lake Shore University. As the
game proceeds he finds that his team is play-
ing against one of his rival gangs; then the
battle begins in true gangster fashion.

Victor McLaglen, Vincent Barnett, as the
racketeer’s henchman, and Nell O’Day, as a
girl sports writer, are outstanding.

Tuesday, Nov. 22—Payment Deferred

Charles Laughton plays the same role that
he had in the stage play of the same name
by Jeffrey Dell, that of William Marble.

Marble murders his nephew to obtain
enough money to invest in franc exchange.
Laughton with characteristic ability sustains
the dramatic interest in every possible man-
ner. As in the stage play, the death and
burial are left to the imagination of the spec-
tator. The queer twist at the end is what
gives this grim tale its title.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS

(Continued from page 3)
failed to give him the $1,900 which his four
years in college cost him. .«
Young Smith’s attorney, Harold T. King,

said he would appeal the case to the Colorado
Supreme Court.

South Bend, Ind—(IP)—Rumors that, be-
cause of Pittsburgh’s defeat of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame would have a new football coach

Roy E. Morgan Clothes

For School and College Men
NEW SPORT ENSEMBLES
Watson Falls Alec Gee John Graham

ollections of Roosevelt in college.

“He was a lanky, good-natured boy,” Alex-
ander said, “and one of the most popular
men in his class. He was elected chairman
of the senior class in 1904 almost without
opposition. Although he was a good track
man, his main interest was people. Wher-
ever you found a group assembled, you were
almost sure to find Rosy.

“After graduation the class was almost
split by a faction that we called ‘the Back
Bay boys’ from Boston. They wanted to
run the’ class because they were in closer
touch with the university. As chairman of
the class, Roosevelt delivered a speech at
the Swampscott reunion and succeeded in
bringing both factions into perfect har-
mony.”

Roosevelt roomed in old Westmorly Court,
some distance from “the yard,” where most
of the dormitories were located. He was al-
ways recognized, even at a distance, by the
peculiar shake of his head when he walked.

Roosevelt did not know at that time that
many ‘of his collegemates would become
well-known; political figures. United States
Senator Robert J. Bulkley and Gilbert Bett-
man, attorney general of Ohio, were in the
class ahead of him. Arthur A. Ballantine,
now. assistant secretary of the treasury, was
a classmate. Ballantine was president of the
Harvard Union, debating society, in his sen-
ior year, Ogden Mills, secretary of the
treasury, and Congressman Chester C. Bol-
ton were in the class just below Roosevelt.

next year were denied emphatically here by
Jess Harper, Notre Dame athletic director.

“Rumors can fly where they will,” he said,
“but Anderson (Hunk Anderson) will be
back at Notre Dame as head football coach.
The fact that he lost a-game is “no reason
to fire him. Why, we at Notre Dame feel
| he has-done-a-fine job. He stepped into a

|tough job and we like the way he has
| handled things.
“Any reports to the contrary are mere

propaganda and should be treated as such.”

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men
Come Here”

Students Sizes in

“Thanksgiving Special”
NEWEST COLLEGE MODELS IN

TUXEDO SUITS

Complete with Vest”

$25
J O JONES CO

CHARLOTTE

Students Shop, $20

© avidson Theatre

@

WEDNESDAY

“SCARLET DAWN”
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.—NANCY CARROLL
THURSDAY

“RED

DUST”

CLARK GABLE—JEAN HARLOW
FRIDAY

“THEY CALL IT SIN”.
LORETTA YOUNG—GEORGE BRENT

SATURDAY

“I AM A FUGITIVE”
PAUL MUNI—GLENDA FARRELL
MONDAY

“RACKETY RAX”

VICTOR McLAGLEN—GRETA NISSEN—NELL
TUESDAY ouat

“PAYMENT

NEUE HAMILTON

DEFERRED” °
