WELCOME TO
DAVIDSON
COACHES

~The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

QUINT LEAVES
FOR STATE
TRIP

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1932

No. 17

NEW GRID MENTORS ASSUME DUTIES

Dr. C. Darby Fulton Will
Conduct Mission: School
Here on February 17-18

Prominent Mission keader to Tell
Students of Great Needs in
Foreign Field

HEAD OF MISSION BOARD

Coming to Davidson -Under Auspices |

of Foreign Mission Committee

On Tuesday and Wednesday, February 16
and 17, Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of the Foreign
Mission Board the Southern Presbyterian
Church, will conduct at Davidson a two-day
missfon study institute.

The main purpose of this study is to present
to the student body of this college certain in-
formation about the mission fields which they
should know, and to stimulate interest in mis-
sions, which is so vital to the continuance of
the present mission program. :

Further, this institute is for the purpose of
clearing up any questions or doubts which the
students may have in mind concerning any
phase of the foreign omissions of ovr Church.

of

|
|
}

|
|
|
|

This purpose will be carried out to a large ex-
tent by informal discussions on the proper Chris- |

EUGENE McEVER

Courtesy Charlotte News

GENE McEVER READY
TO TAKE NEW DUTIES
AS BACKFIELD COACH

NEWTON AND McEVER _
"ARE NAMED COACHES

| Newton Succeeds Coach “Monk” |
Younger as Head Coach of
Athletics at Davidson

BOTH FROM TENNESSEE |
| McEver, for Two Years All-American,
Will Coach Backfield

|
|
|

William (Doc) Newton, member of the |
| University of Tennessee athletic staff last fall}
and Eugene Meléver, all-American halfback at
the same institution, have since Monday been |
| directing the spring practice of the Davidson
| Wildeats.
Newton McEver succeeded Monk |
Younger and Tex Tilson, who next fall go to.
Virginia Polytechnic Institute
coaches after nine years of excellent service at
Davidson.

and

as assistant

followed weeks
of deliberation by the Athletic Council, during
which time the field has’ been minutely sur-|
veyed. These men were also approved at a spe-

Selection of these two men

cial meeting of the executive committee of the
college.
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of phys-

‘3 : ;
Na sy wey
“DOC” NEWTON

Courtesy Charlotte

“DOC” NEWTON BRINGS

Observer

tian attitude towards missions and the purposes |
which should be accomplished along the line of
this work,

The “Bristol Blizzard” Finishes a
Brilliant Career at the University
of Tennessee

FORMER ALL-AMERICAN

This year the greater part of the money raised
from the $1,000 campaign went to foreign mis- |
sions. It has been felt by those in charge of
Y. M. C. A. work here that the students should |

McEver is Also a Star in Basketball

part of Tuesday in Knoxville, interviewing Mc- |
Ever and athletic officials of the University of |

ical education at Davidson, spent Monday and | ENVIABLE RECORD AS
Tennessee, The latter had already named Me- | MENTOR TO DAVIDSON
Ever to a varsity backfield coaching position. |

Tennessee authorities, however, were willing |Doc Newton Former Scout for Univer-
to release him to Davidson, and McEver wired! sity of Tennessee Signs Coaching

Pritchett

know more specifically just where their con- |
tributions went, the number of ‘mission fields |.

which the Southern Presbyterian Church is sup-

porting, and more about the missionaries work- ,

ing in these fields.
During the present year the “Y” has had three

| the

objectives along the lines of a missionary pro- |

gram for Davidson: educational, inspirational,
and financial. The financial phase has been car-

ried through with the $1,000 campaign. This |

mission institute, although held for only two

days, is intended to help carry out the other

two objectives.

For the leader of this institute the Y. M.|

C. A. officials have secured Dr, C. Darby Ful-
ton, than whom they feel no one in the entire
Southern Presbyterian Church is better equip-
ped to undertake such a task as he will have.

Dr. Fulton is a young mna and the type that
should appeal to a college crowd. He has an at-
tractive personality, and while in Japan as a
missionary, he won, in that great tennis-playing

(Continued on page 6)

Three Plays to Be
Given By Masquers

To make up the casts for two of the three
plays to be offered by the Masquers on Thurs-
day night, February 25, five new and nine’ or
more old players are being used. Those who
are appearing for the first time are Tom
Wood, H. Hodgin, Geddy Monroe, and J; Har-
ris, in “In The Zone,” and E. L. Powell in
“Well, I Declare!” Two of these, Hodgin and
Harris, have already worked for performances
making up characters.

The casts as they stand at present are:
“In The Zone”

and Baseball

Eugene Tucker MckEver, variousy known as
“Wild Bull” and the “Bristol Blizzard,”
who has been named backfield of the
Davidson College Wildcats, came to Davidson

coach

last Monday fresh from the realms of compe-
tition, and arrived here with an up-to-date
knowledge of what a backfield man should do.
Incidentally, he will know how to practice what
he preaches.

He comes to Davidson directly from the Uni-
versity of Tennessee, where his performances

‘for a number of seasons have led to emblazoned

headlines in which his name was frequently
used. Following him are words of high praist
and comment from the man who has taught
him the football he knows, and who has watched
him scamper to heights of glory on a foothall
field.

Major Bob Neyland clearly indicated what
he thought of Gene McEver when he was going
to add him to the Tennessee athletic staff and

turn over the backfield coaching to him. He

fa

has proved to be a. great football player, but
he has also indicated that he possesses a thor-
ough knowledge of the game. In addition to
classifying him as the “greatest and smartest”
player he has ever coached, Major Neyland
has declared that he is “a keen and absorbing
student of the game.”

McEver comes here with plenty of enthusi-
asm. Defeat has never been tasted by this all-
American halfback, for he has never played on
Tennessee team that lost. The
dropped by the Volunteers during the last five
years took place during the season that Mc-

one game

Ever was out with injuries. There are those
who believe that if McEver had been available
that one loss would have been a victory.

Captain Wednesday afternoon, ac-
cepting the offer.

Newton has been under consideration at Da-
vidson for some time. It was announced by
newspapers a few weeks ago that the combina-
tion would be Newton and Leonard Dick. The
latter was unavailable, however, but the Ath-
letic Council kept in touch with Newton, and
was endeavoring to work out a combination
that would include him on the staff. Newton ac-
companied Captain, Pritchett
Knoxville Monday.

on his trip to

The new head coach at Davidson scouted for
the University of Tennessee last fall, and comes
to the Presbyterian institution with high recom-
mendations from institutions where he formerly
toached and from the authorities,
He has coached at Birmingham-Southern and
at Howard College, both in Birmingham, Ala.,
where he made excellent records, and during

Tennessee

ball. He was at one time with the Baltimore
Orioles,

While for the Tennessee
Volunteers last fall, he was the man largely
responsible for the which ‘Tennessee
put up, for Coach Neyland and Newton spent
several hours together each day outlining the

acting as scout

defense

defense and discussing the system which was
to be met cach week.” Newtonevisited Davidson
in October, when he scouted Duke University.

McEver's record at Tennessee is one that is
well known, Those who have closely followed
the work of the Volunteers during the past four
years know the important cog that Mceléver
made in that football machine. It is said that he
virtually coached the backfield while playing on
the eleven, and that he was adept at any posi-
tion behind the line, He has made all-Southern
for three years, and has been selected as an

(Continued on page 6)

the summer months he played professional base- |

| Contract Here
|

| IS U. OF S. C. ALUMNUS
|

Pitched for the Baltimore Orioles
For Two Consecutive Seasons

|
|
|
| “A man of personality, one who knows how
| to handle men, and a person who knows foot
| ball’’—that is the way that a number of people
| William (Doc) Newton, new
fhead coach of the Davidson Wildeats.
/A few minutes of conversation with, Coach New-

jhave described

College

lton convinces one of the first and last, and his
| record of coaching attests to his ability to handle
| men,

New

ton would be a likely choice for one of the two

| When an announcement was made that

coaching positions open at Davidson, letters
started to athletic
authorities at Davidson. They came particular-

jand telegrams pouring in

lly from the Birmingham section, where most
of the athletic “coaching career of Newton had
lheen staged. A full investigation of his record
| reyealed his success as a coach, and when Cap-
tain Pritchett went to Knoxville this week, he

lobtained additional data from the ‘Tennessee
authorities which -verified the conclusions al-
ready reached,

Newton began his athletic competition at

Cluster Springs Academy, an institution that }

| formerly existed near South Boston, Va. It was
that his first tutor was Irwin
| P. Graham, of Cooleemee, member of the Da-
vidson College Athletic Council, At
|paratory school he participated in four sports.

la coincidence

this pre

Although he was not a native of South Car-
lolina, he chose the University of that state for
that
he was coached by another Davidson alumnus,

{his hjgher education, and at institution
the late Dr. “Red” Edgerton, He made an en
viable record at South Carolina, was an all
| South Atlantic the football
pitcher on the baseball nine, and center on the

end on team, a
basketball five, Standing ‘six feet three inches
and weighing 196 pounds during his undergrad-
uate days at South Carolina gives an idea of
his powerfulness.

His education was interrupted, however, by
the World War. He volunteered, went to an
officers’ training camp, which he left

with a

; The combination of Newton and McEver
Driscoll -------------------- A. Tong should prove a good one. The former is the
Cocky Ede Raed ate Nath ait Sadat toda Tom Wood older of the two, more matured, and has had
JOEY eco H. Hodgin experience in the coaching game. Mckver has
Scotty ---------------------- Lessem just finished a brilliant career, and is buoyant
Olson (SOS SSE SS Monroe in beginning as a coach. They will counter-
SRY rece J. Harris balance one another on some things and team
Stage Manager 22a ssei Gullette together perfectly on others. Both are students

“Well, I Declare!” lof football, and Newton's knowledge of foot-
Daltonsoose vse ie mY G. Wood ball Systems will be valuable in perfecting: a
Rabinowitz; = see et McLean defense, while McEver will probably contribute
Cassidy 35 2 oe Pope more to the offensive tactics of Davidson.
Rrotessone sso o2 2 ei J. Williams | The new Davidson backfield coach obtained
Reporter see Ss eg ng Powell his nickname, “Bristol Blizzard,” through his
ANSSiStantt = eee Moore performances and from the fact that he hails

“In The Zone” is directed by W. Hollings-| from Bristol, Va. “Wild Bull” is easily deduced
worth, who took the part of Yank in “Bound|to have been applied through the fact that he
East for Cardiff.” Henry McFadyen, who was | was untamable on a football field. He raced
the husband in “Sham,” is handling “Well, I| through opponents just as an infuriated bull
Declare!” Rehearsals have already commenced. | would do.

As Fet the characters in the play to be put on| McEver is an all-round athlete, and will be
by members from the Little Theatre of Char-| valuable to Davidson in other departments than
lotte have not been announced. (Continued on page 6)

| first lieutenancy, and before he was discharged
from the army in 1919 he had been made a
{captain in the infantry. He played football with
|the various camp teams at which he was lo-
| cated.
| After his discharge, Coach Newton joined the
| Baltimore Orioles, and was farmed out to the
| Brantford, Ont., club, which club led the Mich-
igan and Ontario league that year. He was.a
pitcher and won 11 and lost four of the con-
\tests he twirled. x

Baltimore recalled him in 1920, and it was in

(Continued on page 6)

DR. C. DARBY FULTON

|Who Will Conduct the Mission Institute
| Here February 16, 17

Result of Questionnaire
Proves Non-Militaristic
Views of Student Body

Students Do Not Sanction Interven-
tion of United States Into Sino-
Japanese Controversy

FAVORABLE TO LEAGUE

Answers Show: That R. O. T. C. Does
Not Make a Man War-Minded

As a result*of the interest in the Sino-Jap-
anese controversy shown by the students of Da-
vidson College, this paper arranged a question-
naire, which was answered by the students of
the college at the chapel assembly last Thurs-
day morning. The results have been tabulated
and in the majority of the cases the expected
was the result, but in some notable cases this

was not true.

The disarmament question has been before
the world ever since the Great War, and this
question headed the list. A list of the questions
follows :

1. Do you favor fotal disarmament ?

2. Do you favor partial, disarmament ?

3. Would you voluntarily bear arms for the
United States in event of war?

4.) Would to if the
objectives of the war were contrary to your

you refuse bear. arms

personal convictions ?

5. Would you refuse to bear arms under
any conditions ?
6.. Granting safety of American lives and

property, would you favor the United States’

intervention in the Sino-Japanese controversy ?

7. Do you favor the entrance of the United
States into the League of Nations?

8 Are you in favor of R. O. T. C. training
at Davidson?
9. Do you think R. O. T. C. in any way

makes a@ man war-minded ?

All questions were answered “yes” or “no.’
There were no explanations of the answers
given,

Total disarmament met with great disfavor
among the students, with a vote of 471 to 81
against it. The Juniors and the Freshmen were
particularly vehement in their renunciation of it,
the former answering negatively at 109 to 14,
and the latter at 165 to 29. Partial disarma-
ment met with more favor, all classes ratifying
it by a good majority.

Although the voting was close in each class,
particularly in’ the Senior class, the school
voted to volunteer to bear arms in case of war.
The plurality in this year’s graduating class
was but twelve, however. The Freshmen voted
124 to 66 in favor of volunteering.

A recorded
Unitec in the Sino-Jap-
anese affair, the Seniors being strongly agaifist
it, 26 in the negative. The poll
was fairly close in the Freshman class, where

2 to 177 vote

States’

37 was against
|

intervention

voting 82 to

(Continued on page 6)

Bids Issued to. Ten
By Omega Phi Alpha

Last Phi
ary fraternity, issued bids to the following men:

Thursday, Omega Alpha, honor-

T. A. Bowles, D. G. Calder, G. W. Easton,
W. Holshouser, D..D. McBryde, R. L. Me-
Callie, D. M. McConnell, W. H. Matthews,
W. FF. Mulliss and C. F. Myers. These men

were elected to the fraternity .at its last meey
ing.

Omega Phi Alpha is an honorary fraternity
organized for the purpose of bringing together
those men on the campus interested iin, or spe-
cializing in, philosophy and psychology. Its of-
ficers are: S. S. Wiley, president; R. P. En-
loe, vice-president, and W. V. Carter, secre-
tary and treasurer. Its faculty members are
Dr. J. K. Foreman, Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr. D.
W. Richards and Dr. M. E. Sentelle.

In the past the fraternity has held meetings
at which such interesting topics as “Truth,”
and “Modern Trends in Psychology,” were dis-
cussed by the members. During the remainder
of this year several similar discussions are to
be held. The first will be at the next meeting,
February 19, when reports on the various
phases of the book, “Living Philosophies,”
be read by the members.

will ”
