THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

TREKKING WEST

WATCH DE MILLE DIRECT
“SIGN OF THE CROSS”

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: ‘This is one of a series of |
request articles written” by Jack Wil- |
liams, Jr., who attended the National |
Editerial—Association—meeting—in—Cali-_,
fornia with his father this summer.)

Following the luncheon given the newspa-
per group by the motion picture industry
at the Writers Club, our party—was-escorted
on.a trip to Paramount studios. Behind the
wall that reads, “No Visitors Allowed,” 1,600
people are busy working. For the two hours
of entertainment we see on the screen per-
haps months or years of hard work have
been necessary.

Preparations preceding the making of a
picture are almost countless. Feminine stars
require three fittings for each gown. All
the furnishings must be made to order and
exact in every detail. Days are spent in
casting and the director interviews each
player and hundreds of conferences are held
beforehand.

The actors learn their lines for the scenes
the night before, but first must come more
rehearsals before the picture can be actually
filmed. The studios offer all clothes built
especially for the stars to them at half
price when the picture is finished. Para-
mount donates all perishable goods to char-
ity which are used on the sets. Cut flow-
ers are distributed to free wards in hospitals
and many of the old clothes find their way
to the backs of the needy through the va-
rious--socialorganizations.

“THE SIGN OF THE CROSS”

We got a real thrill while watching Cecil
de Mille directing “The Sign of the Cross.”
It. is a complete throwback to the day of
thé sandal and toga. It brings back to life
pagan Rome in ail its splendor and cruelty.
It is the most pretentious thing de Mille
ever attempted. When finished it will cost
six hundred thousand dollars, for it has 8,000
actors on its payroll. Its lavish music score
was written by nine different composers.

The cast is composed of Frederic March,
Chas. Laughton, Claudette Colbert and
Elissa Land. De Mille himself is an impres-
sive figure and when he tells them to move,
they step about, and who wouldn't on hear;
ing his commanding voice!.

Research experts spent hours checking
up“on details of costume and architecture of
ancient Rome to insure its technical accur-
acy. ‘Yet all the men in the picture [-no-
ticed had up-to-date haircuts. As the char-
acters pass the microphone they mutter a
little Latin to make it just as authentic as
possible.

INSPECT WORKSHOPS }

We next visited the workshops where all

German Picture to

Be Presented Soon

In the near future, under the auspices of
the College Committee on Lectures and Delta
Phi Alpha, honorary German society, a Ger-
man film will be at the Davidson
Theater, by the courtesy of the management.
‘This film is one of a umber made portray-
ing the life and works of Goethe, the great-
est of German literary men, the centenary
of whose death is being so widely com-
memorated this year. There will be no ad-
mission charge. The film of the silent
type, with titles in German. For this reason
we append herewith a summary of the titles,
with the suggestion that those of students
and faculty who are interested in the film
clip them for reference. The date
announced later.

TITLES TO GOETHE FILM

shown

1s

will-be

Reel 1
1. Goethe's birthplace, the old imperial
city of Frankfort.
2. From Frankfort came material for

many scenes for “Faust.”

3. The hour of Goethe's birth approaches.
4. The midwife arrives.
5. Goethe's parents.

» Goethe's father had a lively interest in
letters—

7. —and in art.

8. He looked back with fond recollections
upon a trip he had taken to Italy.

9. Goethe's. mother was more comrade

than mistress to the maids.

10. She helps at pumping.
11. The boy Goethe enjoyed puppet plays.
12, Mephistopheles iti the puppet play,

representing the devil, tempts Faust.
Reel 2
1. From the puppet play of Dr. Faustus,
Goethe derives scenes for his own “Faust.”

ducers, Carl Laemmle, and. his 24-year-old
son, Carl Laemmle, Jr. Many of the Uni-
versal stars and players were there, too, 1
heard.

recruits

2. The puppet maker’s idea of “the most
beautiful woman on earth.”

3. Gretchen takes Faust’s gift of jewels |
from the casket.

|
in

4+. Goethe’s manuscript of the scene
which Gretchen's brother Valentine fights
with Faust to defend his. sister’s honor.

5. Faust as professor.
6. The puppet play showed scenes of stu- |
dent life in Auerbach’s Keller.

1.. Friederike Brion’s

home, the parson-
age at Sesenheim, after a drawing by
Goethe.
2. Lotte plays the spinet for Werther.
3. The famous Werther costume—blue

plush coat and knee breeches, yellow vest.
Reel 4

1. Lip’s partrait of Goethe at the age of
thirty-two, : '

2. Silhouettes of Duke Karl August, the
Duchess Luise, and the Dowager Duchess
Ainalie.

Reel 5
German court tried
something suggesting Versailles.
Goethe assists in replanning the parks
about Belvedere, a favorite Ducal castle and
residence a miles from Weimar.

3. Goethe's practical activities as an ad-
ministrator in the government.

4. His own) cartoon the
the army.
Schroeter,

l. Every {to have

few

of selection of
for
5. Corona in Greek
recites the opening monolog of “Iphigenie.’
Reel 6
1. Goethe feels overwhelmed by the op-
pressive details of statecraft, and too much
engrossed by his love for Frau von Stein.
2. To escape these distractions, and sat-

isfy his longing for classicism, he takes flight

costume,
’

Fall Services Close’

‘On Tuesday Evening
With his impressions of “What Christ
Means to Me,” Mr. Dwight M. Chalmers
brought the Fall Evangelistic: Services to
a successful close at the evening service,
Tuesday, November 15. Preceding his talk,
the assembled students sang several hymns,

to Italy.

7, Faust bewitches the students and Byron Schriver rendered the lovely vio-
8. —And rides out of the cellar with! lin solo, “Adoration,” by Borowski. The
Mephistopheles on a magic cask. | scripture passage was read from John
9, They ride away in the sky—just as in| !4:1-9, from which Rey. Dwight Chalmers
the Second Part of “Faust,” Faust and Selected as his text the following words of
Mephistopheles are carried away to classical |
Greece and the home of Helena. 3. In Verona Goethe first really appreci- |
Reel 3

ated Roman as opposed to Gothics architec-
ture. 3
Reel 7
1. Goethe's freehand drawings preserve
his impressions of the journey through Italy
to Rome.
?

In. Italy, but especially in Rome, under
the influence of classic art; Goethe experi-

enced a spiritual rebirth that was signifi-
cant for the rest of his life.
Reel 8

1. Under Goethe’s guidance a Court The-
atre is established, “ty

2. Goethe's play “Goetz von Berlichingen”
is presented in the new theatre.

3. The audience arrives. -
4. Goetz, in the dressing room, makes up.
5. The Ducal party has arrived.
6. Goetz is summoned before an imperial

delegation at Heilbronn,

Reel 9
1, The opening scene of “Tasso.” The
Princess and the Countess, both named

Leonore, crown the busts of Ariosto and
Virgil.

2. Weimar, made famous by Goethe, plays
a role on the larger stage of European poli-
tics,

3. A-seeretary takes down “The Theory
of Colors” at Goethe's dictation.
4. The death mask.

5. Stieler’s portrait of Goethe.

Pi

| must

Phillip, “Lord, show us the Father and it
sufficeth us.” .These words struck deeply
into the heart of Christ, for they represented
the inability, not only of His disciples, but of
a materially-minded world as well, to com-
prehend the simple fact of the unity of God
and Christ. In a similar way, we of today
are mistakenly asking that we be shown
signs and proofs; at the same time disre-
garding those already at our attention.

Nevertheless, it is not upon signs and won-
ders that we base our faith or impressions
ef-Christ;-but-upon the three great evidences
of the changed inner being, as suggested by
Mr. Dwight Chalmers. The realization of
the divinity of Christ is an experience of
the soul, not the result of cold logic. We
cannot satisfy ourselves simply by reading
the witnesses as recorded in the gospels, but
make the conviction of its truth a
part of us. In the second place, the power,
solely His own, to forgive sins finds re-
sponse in the spirit such as the mind could
never know. And lastly, we find in Him,
power to meet the demands of life. We are
called upon to witness gg to sacrifice and
endure, for Him, and through His power
we are buoyed to heights far beyond our
human. possibilities.

With an appeal to regard religious life in
the serious light it demands, and invoking
a blessing upon the students and faculty of
Davidson College, Mr. Dwight Chalmers
closed the series of Evangelistic Services.

Roy E. Morgan Clothes |

For School and College Men
NEW SPORT ENSEMBLES
Watson Falls Alec Gee John Graham

s.
no

High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS,’ “
_ SHOE SHOP

kinds of decorations and devices are made. |
Angels, statues and similar things originate |
in these shops. The materials used are plas- |
ter of paris, fiber, glue and even hair. |

Paramount was also filming “The Phantom |

President” with Jimmy Durante; “A Fare- |
well to Arms,” with Helen Hayes, Gary |
Cooper, and Adolphe Menjou; and “The

Night of June 13,” with Clive Brook, Mary
Boland, and Francis Dee. Josef von Stern-
berg was directing “The Blonde Venus,”

|
with Dietrich, but they did not arrive back |
from location before we had to leave. |

Wandering about the sets watching the |
different actors waiting their turn to’ work, |
one can't help but realize how little time |
goes into production, The stars get tired |
waiting and some of them paint, and others |
knit, to pass away the time.

“THE BARRYMORES”

Over at M. G. M. the Barrymores put on
a special act for those in the N. E. A. party
who visited there. Ethel played the part
of the Czarina; John, the Prince, and Lionel
the mad monk Rasputin. The scene was at
the Czarina’s palace. Ethel paced the floor
crying for her son. John entered, grabbed
a guard’s bayonet and went after the son,
and Lionel threw open the doors and en-
tered with the son in his arms,

The place was overrun with Barrymores.
Those who attended said there were only
three of them, but Philip Scheur of “The
times” who slipped in with the party as an
editor, said it seemed like a thousand. Those
who saw this wonderful spectacle afterwards
claimed that they could never be the same
again. As you know, this royal family of
the stage is playing in “Rasputin.” |
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS

Still others who visited the Pickfair stu-
dios were met personally at the door by
Douglas himself. He had just finished “Mr.
Robinson Crusoe,” a romance of the South
Seas. Mary Pickford had left a few min-
utes before by plane for New York to pur-
chase the story for her next production, and
they didn’t get to meet her. ig

Those who went to Universal studios were
greeted by that dean of motion picture pro-

4)

© 1932, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

- Chesterfi
~~ i

tor

. ray
bds laste

As smokers become more experienced, they demand
milder cigarettes. Chesterfields are milder, Their mild-
ness is just as much a feature as the beauty of their
package.

The tobaccos are mild to begin with. Patient ageing
and curing make them milder still. And Chesterfields
contain just the right amount of Turkish—not too
much—carefully blended and cross-blended with ripe,
sweet Domestic tobaccos.

Chesterfields are milder. They taste better. That
why “They Satisfy.”

