Oo

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 14, 1932

WILDCATS DRILL

HARD FOR
BLUE DEVILS

THE SPORTS PARADE

NEWTON GIVES

UP SPLIT
_ SQUAD IDEA

After nine straight years, a Wildcat grid- |
iron team will take the field next Saturday,
a ‘week hence, minus the guidance of “Monk”

Younger and “Tex” Tilson. Everything con-

nected with the 1932 Wildcat eleven seems.

to be new this year, in fact. -New coaches,
new, equip ,a what new and dif-
ferent schedule, a new style of play, and a
team which will be composed to a great ex-
tent of new faces.

t

Just what effect the many changes will
have upon the Wildcat chances on the grid- |
iron this fall is hard to say, but if you'll!
accept our opinion, then you will have high}
expectations.. Davidson should have the best
team in the history of tle school this sea-
son.
if you will recall the success of the Fresh-
man team of, last year and be informed that |
almost every candidate’ of that squad is. out!
for the varsity this year, you may be a little |
closer to our opinion.

It is true that Davidson lost several good
men last spring by graduation. D&h King,
Don McQueen, Doc Mathis, Bob Johnson,

Bud Raker, Steve Brown, and Pie Conway)

served Davidson well, but there is plenty of

material among the fifty or more candidates |

who can and should serve just as well. In}
addition there will be plenty of reserve this

year; something which has been lacking in|

past years.

New and better equipment are at the dis- |,
posal of Doc Newton and Gene McEver,}|
Davidson’s new coaches. Heretofore David-
son had to make the most of what she had

and most of the materials were not up-to-|.

date, but With the difference in equipment,
chances of success should be, greater.

The new style of play which Newton and
McEver have put in at Davidson should also
add its bit’ to the success. The plays are
faster and built for speed rather than weight,
a fact which should fit in with the fast, light
backs who characterize Davidson teams.

When confronted concerning his F reshman |
candidates this year, Coach Red Laird stated |

that they were the lightest he has had to
In fact, he stated that
he had doubts if the backfield candidates |
would average over 140 pounds to the man.)

work with in years.

We called his attention to one candidate

Yes, that-is expecting a great deal, but |

Wildcats Meet Blue Devils

Only Nine Opponents Listed on Sched-
ule Which Includes Six Southern
Conference Teams

| For the first time in several years, Davidson's
jfoothal team will not make its initial public
lappearance in a game at Richardson Field. This
fyear the Wildcats will inaugurate their sched-
ule at Durham when they meet Duke Univer-
sity’s Blue Devils September 24th.

Elon College, who has been Davidson's -foe
in her opening game, which has been played
at Richardson Field the past few. years, will
not meet the Wildcats onthe gridiron this sea-
son, Another change occurs in the number
of games to be played under the 1932 sched-
ule, the Wildcats meeting only nine opponents
| this year, whereas ten were met in previous
| seasons.

| Seven teams which were on the 1931 sched-
ule are carded again this season. Wofford
| College, who was on Davidson's 1930 schedule,

but not last year, and Clemson College, who
|has not been a Wildcat foe since 1929, are the
| two newcomers to this year’s schedule.

The list of foes includes six Southern Con-
| feretiee elevens, the same number met by the
|’Cats last year. “Duke, Washington and Lee,
|V. M. I, Clemson, N. C. State, and Carolina
{will be the conference representatives to en-
yeounter Davidson.

After the Duke game, which will undoubt-
j edly be the ’Cats’ hardest of the year, Wash-
ington and Lee will journey to Davidson to try
|to avenge a 7-0 defeat administered them by
a light Wildcat team last year at Lexington,
| | Va. Wofford College will be the guests at
HRicHatdacn Field the following Saturday. The
jlast meeting of these teams resulted in a 13-0
|victory for the Davidson eleven,
| The next two-games will find the Wildcats
away from home, with a game in Virginia when
they encounter V. M. I. in Lexington, October
15, and the other in South Carolina when they
engage The Citadel at Charleston on the fol-
| lowing week-end. Davidson came out victorious
over both these teams last season, defeating the
former bya 7-0 score and the latter by a 14-0
| verdict.

On the next Saturday, the Wildcats will be
j|hosts to Clemson College. The South Carolina
[setce! gained a victory over Davidson when
the two met in 1929, defeating the ’Cats 32
o 14. .
| The next contest is scheduled to be played
|in Charlotte with N. C. State furnishing the
| opposition. The Red Terrors defeated Davidson
jin a night game at Greensboro last year by
an 18-6 score. Carolina’ University journeys
here_on November 12th, and Wake Forest, for
the first time in years has agreed to come to
Richardson Field for the Thanksgiving Day
game, which will be the Wildcats’ final.

In 1930. the Wildcats defeated Carolina 7 to
6 at Davidson, but last year the Tar Heels
avenged the defeat by crushing the ’Cats, 20
to 0. Wake Forest has not been beaten by a
Davidson team in the past fen years.

‘Junior Cheerleaders

Hold First Tryouts

Junior cheerleader candidates at David-
{son held their first practice of the semester

at Durham on September 24th

4

Freshmen Prepare for

Hard Football Schedule

“Doc” Mathis, Paria Davidson Star
Athelete, Assists Coach Laird-
With Freshman Line

More than sixty Freshmen answered Coach
Laird’s call. for yearling candidates last
Thursday, and have been hard at work ever
since in preparation for a five-game sched-
ule which will open September 23rd against
Presbyteriaw Junior College of? Maxton.

Light scrimmages were® begun Monday
afternoon, but the workouts will get stiffer
as the season progresses. Because of the

lightness of the Freshman material, no prac-
tice will be held between the Freshmen and
varsity candidates, it was stated.

Assisting Laird with the
“Doc” Mathis, star guard, of the Wildcats
who graduated last spring. Mathis is coach-
ing the Kitten line in the place of “Doc”
Unger, who is helping the varsity line candi-
dates this season,

Freshmen is

who
days

candidates
first few

Those among the sixty
have shown up well in the
of practice include Verbel, Burns, Kaysal,
Pittman, Sears, Sanders, Slaughter, Mat-
thews, Pearce, and Johnson, backs, and Har-

ris, Clark, Cumbie Lee, Tipton, Barringer,
Cathey, Windham, Brown, Faison, Johnston,
and McKenzie linemen.

The Wildkitten schedule includes: Presby-
terian Junior —College—at—Davidson, Septem-
ber 23rd; Wofford Freshmen, at Spartan-
burg, S. C., October 14th; N. C. State Fresh-
nren, at Raleigh, November 4th; William
and Mary, Southern Division, at Norfolk,

November ITth, and Dike Prestinen, at Dur-
ham, November 18th.

Idea of Split Squad
Abandoned by Coach

Coach Doc Newton, head mentor at David-
son College, has given up his idea of dividing
his squad of more..thanfifty.footballcandidates
into two separate groups, which were to be
known as squads A and B.

Newton's original plan was to use Doc Unger
as a coach for the varsity B eleven, and to play
a regular schedule. Promotions from the B
team were to be made to the A team off the
basis of performance .in the. scheduled. games.

The feasibility of carrying out the organiza-
tion of the B team was questioned, when college
authorities considered it inadvisable to attempt
the arrangement of three separate football
schedules for three different ‘Davidson elevens
this year. ’

Several: engagements, including one with Oak
eee and another with Mount Pleasant, had
‘been tentatively scheduled, but since these
games conflict with other major tilts in the
state they were cancelled.

"Doc?

Laird,

~
been aiding Red
for the past two

Unger, who has
head Freshman coach,
seasons, was supposed to be in charge of the
B eleven. Although Newton's original
has been abandoned, it has been decided to keep
Unger as an assistant in the varsity training.
Unger’s work will be somewhat similar: to
what_it as—coach—of the B

idea

would have been

who tipped the Fairbanks above .the, 180
mark and he immediately burst forth with
the names of a dozen or more who would not
weigh 140 pounds. A Freshman squad of
sixty candidates whose combined weight is
600 pounds is what Laird says he has to
work with.

Davidson’s coaching staff was increased
this fall by the addition of “Doc” Mathis to!
the Freshman department. Mathis returned |
this semester to take up some work in order
to get his degree, and was utilized to take
over the duties of coaching the Freshman
line this fall. While in Davidson as a stu-
dent Mathis starred in football, basketball,
and baseball, earning no less than eight let-
ters. He served as alternate captain of foot-
ball and captain of basketball in 1929.

In a recent dispatch from Blacksburg, Va.,
we notice that “Monk” Younger-and “Tex”

Tilson have instigated a ban on cursing on}.

the football field at V. P. I. While here at
Davidson the two coaches had a similar ban
on profanity. In our opinion, it goes to show
that “Monk” and “Tex” are coaching to-build
characters of high. morals.

Don’t look askance at those caught in an
expose, but look into your own _heart.—Dr.
Augustus Steimle.

| Monday afternoon in Shearer Hall. Prac-
tices will continue each afternoon until the
latter part 6f next week when two will be
| selected from the group as junior assistants
iby vote of the student body.

| Although the candidates first reported to

Brooke Allen, head varsity cheerleader, last
| spring and performed at some of the Fresh-
| man baseball games, they did not take their
| work earnestly until Tuesday night when
they took part in the initial Freshman pep
meeting of the semester.

Those who reported to Allen for the first
tryouts include C. F. Gold, J. A. Hunter, T.
H. McCallie, E. J. Humphrey, Ralph Smith,
H. M. Hawkins, Emmett Thrower, Dallas
Waner, John Fitzgerald, and Ben Moore.

group, for he will train a group of the varsity
candidates in the signals and plays of the op-
ponents, and will pit his drilled proteges against
those of Newton and McEver.

M.A. DEGREE ABOLISHED

(Continued from page 1)

This matter of degrees. was discussed some
time before a vote was taken, and the general
consensus of opinion of members was that\the
equipment of Davidson was insufficient for
even this minimum of graduate study, and elim-
inating of the master of arts degree would per-
mit further concentration on undergraduate
work. 3

a
Wa

WELCOME STUDENTS

sore DObees

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Four Out of Five College Men Come Here

San Francisco

either side

(NOTE:

of a series by

The following article is the first
Jack Williams, Jr., who by
request has consented to write an account

of the National Editorial Association con-
vention which was held in California this
summer. Some of the interesting places vis-

ited on the
vada, Colorado,

tour were Salt Lake City, Ne-
Mexico, and the Grand Can-
The trip of 8,000 miles was made by
automobile.)

yon,

San Francisco rises majestically on her
hills that look down to the Bay on one side
and to the Pacific on the other. Piquant and
serious, modern New York, ancient
China; thundering with traffic, glorious with
parks and countless ocean vistas.

As we approached the city on the ferry,
the site of the $75,000,000 San Francisco-Oak-
land Bay Bridge to be erected was pointed
out. The bridge will Beseenstructed in two
sections, meeting at Buena Vista, where the
traffic will be routed through a 500-foot tun-
nel. There will be a of spans on
the island with high enough
the

as as

series
of
towers and cable suspensions to allow
largest ships to pass below.

Golden Gate is a deep channel_a mile wide,
a place of strong tides and cool sea winds
where the waters of San Francisco Bay meet
the ocean. In fact, San Francisco is sur-
rounded on all three sides by the sea. The
ocean’s clean-salty spray dashes on the cliffs
and the flow of Pacific tides washes its
docks. You feel the sea, in San Francisco,
for you breathe it, smell it, see it.

Frank Norris called it a story city, along
with New Orleans and New York. He said,
“There are just three big cities in the United
States that are ‘story cities’\—New York of
New Orleans, and the best of the lot,
San Francisco.”

We went immediately to the LaSalle Hotel
which we made headquarters. Overcoats feel
good July and slept under. blankets
that night. San Francisco has many fine
hotels and is noted for its good restaurants.
One feels with Fremont: Older, the famous
editor, that this city always had the
urban instinct; it never wore rompers and
knickers, but arrived and was accepted into
the galaxy sophisticated,
and-topped with a silk hat.

San Francisco is a happy town.
in laughter and good living, People on the
streets are cordial. They smile easily and
like visitors enjoying themselves.. It
is hard to feel downhearted even during the
depression when you breathe its bracing air
and look at the hills that rise in the spark-
ling sun above the blue bay.

This city has a strong individual charae-
ter, It is the portal to the Orient and ships
from many lands dock at its piers. Freight-
ers from far-off European ports . .. round-
the-world liners ... and all along its water-
front there are signs of activity. The streets

course

in we

has

of cities; poised,

It believes

to see

Cross-Country Team
Ushers in Practices

Cross-country workouts began Monday
afternoon at Davidson when a small group
of candidates reported for limbering up ex-
ercises. Others, candidates for next spring's
track teams, also\made their first appear-
ance on the tracks Monday.

The team will be handicapped this year
by the loss of “Soup” Brannon, captain of
last year’s runners and mainstay of the team
for three seasons, and Alec Earle, who grad-
uated last spring.

Three others, John Howard, Rufus Mor-
row, and Bob Woodside, who were members
of the team last year, are expected to hold
down positions again. In addition there will
Archy ‘McFadyen, Hubert Morris, and
George Gullette, three members of the 1931
Freshman team up well in
meets last fall.

he

who showed

been
be

Although no definite schedule. has
arranged, the first meet will probably
with V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.

Florist shops and
corner.

are animated and colorful.
flowet stands are on almost every
The stores are attractive and the salesmen
are most polite.

I can try to describe San Francisco but it
takes more than descriptions and even pic-
tures to tell’ about this place. You must
visit the famed Golden Gate City to sense
its charm.

In Richard Henry Dana's “Two Years Be-
fore the Mast,” we find San Francisco a
prophecy fulfilled, I will quote him in his
book that was written in 1836: “If California
ever becomes a prosperous country, this bay
will be the center of its prosperity. The
abundance of wood, and water, the extreme
fertility. of its shores, the excellence of its
climate, which is as near to being perfect as
any in the world, and its facilities for navi-
gation, affording the best anchoring grounds
in the whole western coast of America, all
fit it for a place of great importance; and
it has attracted much attention, for
the settlement of ‘Yerba Buena,’ where we
lay at anchor, made chiefly by Americans
and English ... bids fair to become the most
important trading place on the coast.”

That night.we—assembledgat the
Hopkins Hotel, high on Nob Hill,
commands an excellent view of the city and
bay front. Dinner in the Room of the Dons
was followed by several addresses of wel-
come by prominent San Franciscans. After-
wards we ¢rossed the hall to the Pedcock
Court where Anson Weeks’ orchestra was
playing. The whole history of California is
depicted in the mural decorations ‘of the
Room of the Dons in this great—hotel.

indeed,

Mark
which

more
But I

In Russia the citizen seems to be
nearly contented than in any other.
don’t want to live there.—Ray Long.

ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF

The Oaks Tavern Tea Room

Mrs. Harry Y. Mott, Manager

Dinner Parties
Lawn Parties

Telephone Davidson No. 2005
Location: 2 Miles West of Mt. Mourne, N. C.

Picnics Card Parties
Club Meetings
Banquets

By Apointment Only

a
~~

2

q

© Pabidson Theatre

©

i

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
HORSE FEATHERS

, with
THE MARX BROTHERS

SATURDAY
GUILTY AS HELL

with
EDMUND LOWE AND VICTOR McCLAGLEN
. MONDAY AND TUESDAY

BLESSED EVENT

WEDNESDAY
MAKE ME’ A STAR

STEWART ERWIN |

