4

Y. M. C. A. BEGINS ANNUAL
STUDENT GIFT CAMPAIGN

4
(Continued from page 1) .
to their_atfention. The Cabinet decided that
the gift.funds could be of most service in
Davidson’s own tiote mission project and in
a mountain mission school.
The work being done in the Davidson

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1232

our country is “isolated in the coves and
“Rollers” of our Blue Ridge Mountains Wwith-
out the material, intellectual, and spiritual
benefits of our Christian civilization. Noth-
ing is more fascinating than locating the
choicest of these young people, bringing
them to a knowledge of Christ, giving them
the advantages of Christian education and
fitting them for leadership in their own com-

-Duke Endowment in North Carolina.”

He |\benefactions, larger than his gifts and broad-
stated that the purpose of ‘his talk was to]er than his charity. _
analyze the meaning of Duke’s work. “Te Mr. Duke had lived in Europe he
“Rockefeller and Carnegie alone exceeded; o.414. have been given an official-title aud
him as -a philanthropist and although he his remains would be resting in Westmin-
never Héld public office. he sent his am- ster Abbey. But he was an American and
bassadors to the ends of the earth,” he con- his body rests-under sacred North Carolina
tinued. soil, but men and women and little children

i e .
eae eee eee ee eee SS SSS

DR. ARBUCKLE IS ANALYST

in an equally rare German journal. |

IN PECULIAR POISON CASE

(Continued from page 1)
He
sent these articles to the Medical Associa—

tion to be translated.

The results showed that in 1910 in a smail
town in Austria, a workman at a factory

. . * a “a: .
Unity Church is well known to Davidsonfmunities or wherever their chosen profes-

students. Work was undertaken among the]}sion:takes them. This work is being done
people of the mill community some years/entirely on fait y a Christ-h Presby-
ago under the direction of the Presbyterian]terian minister.” .

Church bere. Der. H. B. Arbuckle and Mr.
F. L. Jackson were active in conducting |
services for .these people as early as: 1915.
At that time students from the college aided
~——thenr_Ladies.of the town assisted with night

classes and the work was* promoted with a

great deal of community interest. __
At about the middle of the last decade

the work had gfown to such proportions
that a full-time worker was needed. <Ac-

cordingly the Colicge Church and the ¥. M.

C. A. co-operated ‘in securing Mr. DeWitt

Helm; then a student here, to spend all of

time apan, irom college dulies in minister-

ing to the people of the mil community.

-He_iwas_sufeceeded in this work by Albert

McClure, who served until the latter's grad-

uation in 193). Since that time the work

- has been carried on by John Howard. now
a Senior in the college.

- . The pasterai aad_preaching .duties of the’
Davidson Unity Church require the devoted-
and constant efforts of the student pastor.
"The. contribution oi $300 which Davidson

The man to whom-he-refers—is—fekn—Wo
Luke, a graduate of Hampden-Sidney Col-
lege and Union Seminary of Richmond, He
is closely connected with many Davidson
people, having been “taken into the church
by Dr: Harry Moffett, and having been
coached in college football by Coach Monk
Younger. He studied church history under
Dr. Walter Lingle in Seminary and was a
classmate. of Prof. Lewis Sehenck
there. Charlés Moore of the Sénior class
and M. W. Norfleet of the class of 1931
have done work under him during the sum-
mer. Tle states that two Davidson men,
Thompson and McDavid of last year’s grad-
-uating class, are now teaching at Glade Val-
ley. He says further concerning the Glade
Valley project:

‘LUKE'S STATEMEN

“The seventeen students fave led the
school in their grades: and according to_Prof.
FE. B.. Ettridge, are setting a fine morale
for the stident body consistiag of about
a tolcighty students.
the nerve_to do. things for God. By faith
I am backing up seventeen picked scholars,
assuming a debt of $1,275 at a risk. These

the support of the worker.
Since the work was-started under the di-
rect guidance of a student full-time worker,

great strides forward have been made:—A|Students are receiving a Christian high
tumble down one-room shack has been re-|School education and will become great

Christian leaders in their own communities

paired and added to until now there is an ;
and our nation. Some of them. unless given

attractive and , adequate chureh building.
This was done largely through the efforts
of Albert Mc€lure and Dr. Atbuckie. Dur-

ing the past summer John Howard _organ-| ¥ery Door taining, and the world. no better

nd} because they lived. Woodrow Wilson said
“ in words someting like’ these, ‘The people

cabin was erecta ‘for use as a social serv]
“ice building. —

Perhaps no better idea of the progress

lands aré the purest--blaoded Anglo-Saxon
race of. America, and there has not come

made in the work can be given tian by a great crisis in our country, that these
highlanders. have not: played a decisive

—quoting from a statement made by Mr. .De- MS
Witt Helm. who is now a minister iv Ashe] Pat _ -
Gounty: : ‘ _

EIGHTH DUKE ENDOWMENT .
T ENT
HELM'S STATEM ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATED

"Ry their fruits yé shall know them; is;
the Master's critcrion of judgment and. wej—
—can—~apply -no—better——From the physicat
“viewpoint one can casily see results of every

e

(Continued from page 1)° ss

dollar, ever, moment of time and every Carolina; Rev, J.-B. Hurley’ of Lexington; .
aa | Rev. CO Ke-Proctor. Superintendent of Ox-|

“prayer spent in our Mill Chapel work.
the past six years “atlilapidated one room
shack has béén reconstructed and trams-
fermed—inte an acceptable Sauday School
building and a modest but satisiactory
church has been erected. During the same
period a Sunday School + about twenty
members has grown into a well org&nized
Community Church: a Wefartmentalized
Sunday School with a large attendance 5a
Young Peonlels organization, and an active
‘Worhan’s Auxiliary.

“But the real achievements of our work
are not visible to the casual ‘observer. Reg-
ular Ce te mid-week worship, has
been maintained, withouyinterruption ; the
sick have_been nutecd day and might, Uc
dead have been buried ; “the widows. orphans|
and destitute cared tor-aed ite -transform-
ing power of the Gospel has been brought
into many lives. and Romes. Our ministry
has been used of God to uirn many hearts
to Him. establish family altars and develop,
a_cénter of religious life and activity for]
the mill peopie of which they are justly
proud and jin which their souts are kept
face 16 face with eternal verities.”

GLADE VALLEY .

Ir so happens that Mr. Helm is preaching
in the- very section of tltis state where
Glade Vaey Tligh School is located. The
remainder of the Christmas Gift Fund over
and above the $300 needed for the Mill
Chapel work, will be used int sending seven-
teen mountain boys and girls to this schwol.
Davidson students first became inverested in
~the school through “Mr. Joha WW. Lute, who-
is a mouritain mission worker located ‘at
Glendale Sptings. also in- Ashe County. He
showed the need of these underprivileged
young people and showed how far a. very
little money would go in. educating them.
He reveated_ the fact that he had sent sev-
enteen of. the most promising boys and girls
in his parish to Glade Valley School, where
farm produce and their own work will pay

ford Orphanage, and Bishop: Edwin
Mouzon of Charlotte.

‘ddist Chitreh, presided at the exercises.:
Lawrence Clark Apgar, organist and caril-
lénneur of Duke University, played several
numbers and a dothle quartet from the uni-
versity sang, adding much to the enjoyiment
ot the program.

dent of Davidson College.

polished “rhetoric. His subject was “The

“DRUGS” ~~

ent

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

/

/

SEE THE .

while |

By faith men of- old hadavays reccive_the solicitude oi the state.
/PERKINS ATTENDS

a chance, will no doubt fill graves in the
mountains, visioniess. Christless perhaps. with:

of the Great Southern Appalachian -High-,

did. -

son, Dean of the Medical College of South |e

* of # man, he declared. hi . Four corm ; eleven weekk” are given each
often estimates a man y is possessions . . . year. ese may be taken consecutivel:
| € High Class Work at Economical Prices (M.D. in three years) or three terme ‘may

Dr. WLW, Peeie, pastor of the First Meth-: mulated.

ihis.ctforts he became a colossal figure.
A. soulful invocation was! Duke did aot nave the advantages of an
oflered by Br. Walter L. Lingle, the Presi-| education, spending less than six montis in
{schoof his entire lite.

The Honorable O. Max Gardner Governor | blazing’ new (rails. healing “the sick: edu-
of North Carolina, délivered his address with cating youth, and providing houses of wor-

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies 4

WHITE,/DRUG CO., Inc.

Anything Ordered on Thursday -
__and Friday of This Week
— —-Can Be Shipped-Anywhere

_ By CHRISTMAS _

STAR DIRECT |

“Duke did not seck to outdo others, but in the evening’s devotions around the fire-
he meant to add to their labor. Surely he sidés will thank God he lived.” -

has created _an_instrument for—great ‘good |—___. : .
ie wr +. <teGtothtin: Presid

that will bless generations to come.” : . ° 2.
” Continuing Governor Gardner asserted|™an -University, spoke on the-eridowment
‘ va as an.aid to education. “James Buchanan

tit-sears tO come the greatest memorial 7 ;
hie, . ‘ . Duke was dévoted to the interest of people

i i the daily prayers ems :
1o_this great man will be the daily praye of the Carolinas and by helping them he did

from orphans, youths given greater oppor- - ea
tanity, and those in pain whose health is| What he could tochelp her colleges,” He as

being restored. Ia his opinion, decisions | Serted. .
being made now will greatly influence. the; ‘This great man was pre-emjnently a build- Algeria when four persons entered a drug
future. .To him there is something splendi¢d|{et and the Duke Endowment is an expres-|Store and requested-a lemonade purgative.
about this citizen of the world who walked|sion af his genius. The passing of cight The druggist filled_their order; they drank
in Wall Street but could not forget the red|yedrs have only served to emphasize the the muxture, and within 20 minutes were all
hills 6f His county. princely giit he_made.” dead. Analysis showed that a bottle marked
The speaker pointed out that “Duke was! Dr. R@bért” Wilson, Dean of the Medical | “aw tartrate conrained a large ambunt
a frontiersman ‘forging ahead with rugged| School of South Carolina, pointed out two i?! the angerous sodinm nitrate. .
self-reliance. and that this great captain of] greaf problems of medicine. “The utilizast~ The peentiar faet in the case is that this
industry detached himseli and fell’ in. with/tion of machinery for the benefit of all peo- substanee is not known as a dangerous poi-
the warm currents of the people hearing|ple and the growing tendeney of physicians | 50”. Consequently Dr. Arbuckle experiment-,

the -smali hat compelling. voice of _human=ito_settle in-cities creating a-graxe. situation |¢d with a_cat, giving ita Mose of one Srain_
” in rural communities, He showed*that Duke] Of the nitrate. and the cat died with. sim-

died upon eating some sodium nitrate and
in 1911 a fellow workman became the vic:
mnre--compotirtk—it—was—aiso—
found that a large amount of this nitrate
was .stored in a room beneath the one in
which the bodies of these men were discov- .
ered, and thé common belief was that they
had used it as “salt-for their. food.

The other case took place in a‘town in

=

ity. .
Honorable Ybra C. Blackwood, Governor| Was greatly interested in hospitals. Know- ilar symptoms as those observed in the
Jof South Carolina, spoke on The Duke{ing the scarcity of hespitals, Duke provided child, in et minutes.
Endowment in South Carolina." He de {for idem liberally, alloting mearly one-third! Dr. Arbutkte intends to inform ~The

Chemical Journal,” and within a_short time

‘elared, “All patriotic South Carolinians ree- of the endawment-tor this purpose.

Ognize the Duke Endowment as one of the| The Rev. J.B. Hurley spoke on “The sodium nitrate will be stamped as one of the~

great benefits of their state, and it will al-]Superannmate’ Minister and the Rural | Most dangerous of poisons. ;
—1Church’" and emphasized thé_broadness of. °

He showed now the| STATE NOMINATIONS WON
BY THREE DAVIDSON MEN

| Mfr, Duke's character.
endowment’ has helped the rural church anc |

i Perkins, vice: chairman |!
fadge William R ‘superannuate minister.

of the board of trustees, spoke in earnest”
and impressive tones. His subject was “The | The Rev. C.K Proctor, Superintendent

Dake Endowment; its Origin and Purpose.” of Oxtezd Orphanage, spoke=‘for the 45
Judge Perlans was a personal friend of Mr. | orphanages in the two Carolinas. “It takes
Duke and was for many years his legal ad-]4 great Man to make a million dollars, but
viser. it takes a greater man to give away a mil-

“Mecklenburg is the eradle of the great-jlion dollars intelligently.” Mr. Duke him-
est philanthropist in history,” he “declared self once remarked, “I'm beginning to think
The lawyer outlined the life of this: great]! almost as difficult for a man lo give away
’ his money rightly, as it is to make it.

(Continued from page 1)

sides taking part in intramural athletics. He
has been an assistant in the library and also
served as'a Greek assistant.

Paul Brown, a member oi Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa, has one of the
j highest scholastic averages made by any
student at present in school. He is president
,of the Y. M. C.°A., captain of the ritie team,

nan who tose unaided from poverty to and won the trophy for champion gymnast
powet and wealih. THe also mentioned-the| The superintendent suggested probably last. yaer. . ;
reat partnership that existed berween father|the reason Mr. Duke's heart went out to W.\F. Mulliss is also a member of Phi

orphans was because his own life was-—be-
reft"oi\a mother’s care. And. the speaker
joined Jelane in paying homage to the
bencfadorfor his contribution to humanity,

The benediction was offered by the Right
Reverend Edwin D. Mouzon of Charlotte. ' -

North’ Carolia contemplates with admira> DUWKE UNIVERSITY

tton and gratitude the generous spirit that
led anenieas -Geeatest—Merehantto—tte-+ | SCHOOL c OF MEDICINE
so DURHAM, N.C,

and son.

Once Judge Perkins asked Mr. Duce what
he thought was the greatest thing he ever
“The Duke Endowment,” he. replied,
_{“because through it I make men.” And it
is as a maker of men that he preferred to
be remembered, .

The Honorable Clyde R. Hoty spoke on

ames- 2._Duke:_Alan and_Citizen” This,
an cloquent and impressive addréss. “It
is difficult 10 accurately measiree the statue
The world- too

feta Kappa and Omicron Délia Kappa. and
is the presiégent of ‘the Pan-Hellenic Coun- |

He is a member of7Pi_ Kappa “Alpha _
eat fraternity.

vote ,his means to humanity —J. W.,, Jr.

and counts lis worth by what he has accu- be taken each. year (M.D

The entrance ‘requirements
character and at least two
work, including the subjects specified for
» Grade A’ Medical Schools. Catalogues and

application forms may be obtained from the
ean. ‘

. in four years).
are intelligence,

Fiawever, there are a, few men
. years of college

And such

MARTIN BROS.
SHOE SHOP_~“

who rise above their possessions.
a inan was fames B. Duke!
“Duke knew the struggle of existence and
the ineaning of hard work. -As a result of
Mr.

eee ee. meee

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

7 112 GARLAND-COURT

Tle lived a full dite

Shi . his CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Jages B. Duke is. bigger. than

. “SODAS” — | 7 PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
rr
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

EDW. 0. GUERRANT A. M. MANSON

“SUNDRIES”
iy

| 5 “Davidson mn Cheate
WEDNESDAY

“TESS OF THE STORM CC
JANET GAYNOR-—-CHARLES
THURSDAY -
“CENTRAL PARK”.
JOAN BLONDELL—WALLACE FORD
FRIDAY
“CALL HER SAVAGE”
CLARA BOW

mea >

@ |

TRY”
RRELL

Y

A
iN

“for one-half their schooling this year. He
has been endeay Oring to raise the other half,
which amounts to seventy-five dollars for
each student: Nearly $1,3007is needed. The
Y Cabinet has decided that the balance of
the Gift Fund shalictbe used to reduce this
debt of faith. - .

Mr. Helm is intimately connected with
this work. Concerning it he says:

“Our Ashe County students at Glade Val-
ley present -an entirely different appeal.
Much of the purest_Anglo-Saxon blood of |

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

{Tailoring Display
EVERY THUTSDAY AND FRIDAY . .
——tNORTON’S BARBER SHOP >

‘ SATURDAY -
“MEN OF AMERICA”
CHIC: SALE—WILLIAM BOYD
MONDAY
“ME AND MY GAL”
= JOAW BENNETT—SPENCER TRACY
;[ TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY ~
“HALF NAKED TRUTH”
LUPE VALEZ—LEE TRACY
é SSS

“f

5-¢
x
EY

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

