THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

—
—

MR. GLASGOW SPEAKS
ON PURPOSES IN LIFE

(Continued from page 1)
principles which he had been taught in
childhood, he rose to power even in this
heathen land and became prime minister of
Babylon.

Mr. Glasgow urged each listener to chart
his life with a standard of living, so that
when the crisis comes; he will be able to
meet it without a struggle. He told the
story of the. engineer who, confronted by a
buckled coal car on his right of way, knew
just what to do in this crisis, because he
knew his job from long experience and had
tong—planned-just what he would do when
he met such an emergency. In the same
way the young man of today must lay prin-
ciples.on which he may meet any emergen-
cies. He must Jay out an attitude of un-
compromising integrity. One must get a
true and earnest evaluation of things in
life as to their true value. Playing to the
gallery in the comparatively small area of
college may mean success there, but it will
not help in the business world. Only men
who have the fundamental appreciation of
values stand out. :

Mr. Glasgow also referred to Col. Ray-
mond Robbins whose disappearance recent-
ly has so puzzted the nation. A‘close per-
sonal friend, he told of Colonel Robbins’
activity in breaking a railroad strike in Penn-
sylvania. When he was gratefully thanked
by the. management of the railroad, Colonel
Robbins replied that it was not for interest
in the half million dollars which they had
lost, but that he had devoted his time and
energy to the relief of the hundreds of la-
borers who had suffered hunger and other
privations.

In closing, Mr. Glasgow urged that his
listeners not be influenced by any modern
trend to make light of the fundamental ideas
which we have been taught since childhood.
He pointed out that the strongest men in
the nation, and in any community, are those
who believe in the Bible and what it stands
for. He quoted several quotations from fa-
mous business men who all say that the
greatest need of business today is more re-
ligion..-He..made-the-.statement®-that the
standing of Davidson will depend upon what
Davidson men decide as to their ideas of
values.

WILDCATS WILL MEET
WOLFPACK AT CHARLOTTE

(Continued from page 1)

seen that the Wolfpack will present a ma-
chine that will be a power to be reckoned
with,

In the State backfield is the elusive Ray
Rex, supported ably by McQuage, the ’Pack
ballistician, not to mention a host of other
ball carriers. In® the line Captain “Red”
Espey stands out. Espey, a former Hickory
High star;"and prominently mentioned last
Season for all-state honors, is a veteran of
three years’ seasoning, and will be a hard
man to’ force out of the play. Stroupe at
tackle is also a man that will have to be
reckoned with in the State forward wall.

The Wildcats are fully aware of State’s
impressive record, but have one of their own
to show. Duke opened the season by hand-
ing the Wildcats a 13 to 0 lacing. Davidson
then came into its own and put the Gen-
erals of Washington and Lee down by a 7
to 0 count. The 40 to 6 avalanche piled on
Wofford was the next feat of the great Da-
vidson eleven. V, M, I. was humbled in their
own backyard, when the Sophomores were
too much for them and defeated them 12
to 0. The Citadel pulled an upset, and hand-
ed the ’Cats a 7 to 6 licking. Last Saturday
Davidson came back into form and outplayed

the highly favored Clemson Tigers, tieing
them 7 to 7.

The entire array of pony backs, Peabody,

Pearcé, Mills, Flinn, Mackorell, Willson, and
Fleagie will probably see action in the State
embroglio, and possibly the injured Wing-
field may get into the fray. A heavy line
from end to erfd of Morgan, Wagner, Hand,
McElrath, Rives, Whitfield, and Morris, from
left to right, will go on the field as Coaches
Newton and McEver unloose their aggrega-
tion in all its fury to stop the devastating
march of the Wolfpack. Buddy Gardner is
back in uniform and it would not surprise
‘some to see him play against the Raleigh
boys. If he does, Espey will have an even
harder day than he is expecting, and he can
expect a busy afternoon from the scrappy
McElrath.

The game, sponsored by the Junior League,
is expected to draw an unusually large
crowd. The bands willbe there as well as.a
large-representation from both student bod-
ies, and the game will undoubtedly be a col-
orful affair, and_will-have a decided bearing
on the “Big Five” race. Two good teams
are going on that field Saturday, and the
person who doesn’t see it, will miss a great

game.

JUDGE COOPER TALKS:
ON “TRIAL OF CHRIST”

(Continued from page 1)
The youngest judges were required to give
verdict first so as not to be influenced by
the opinions of the older judges. Even after
sentence was pronounced, a messenger was
held ready to halt the execution in case new
evidence had been found.

The fundamental trouble with this san-
kedrin, Judge Cooper declared, was that it
was acting in haste, trying to carry, out what
it had intended before the trial began. The
judges, frightened by the events of Palm
Sunday, by the raising of Lazarus, by the
expulsion of the money-changers from the
Temple, thought their position was at stake.
They permitted disagreeing evidence. They
held session illegally on the Sabbath Day.
They mistreated the prisoner, contrary to
law. They rushed through a verdict in an
unlawfully short time.

The charge before the sanhedrin was blas-
phemy:~ Before Pilate, it was changed to
treason against the emperor. Pilate exam-
ined Jesus and found Him innocent, But
he changed his decision when the Jewish
mob raged and cried, “Crucify Him,” an ex-
ample of weakness, and vacillation, and lack
of fortitude which prophesied the crumbling
of a great institution.

Judge Cooper ended with the adyice that
we join the centurion at the cross in ac-
cepting the deity of Christ.

Judge Cooper holds court in Charlotte dur-
ing the fall months. He is well known as
a Sunday School lecturer, and is active in
Christian work in Kinston.

THE SILVER SCREEN

(Continued from page 4)

story, and probably the best picture that
Kay Francis and William Powell have turned
out as a team.

The scene is laid almost entirely on a boat

from Hongkong to San Francisco. Powell
and Francis portray their parts sincerely and |
charmingly while Aline McMahon and Frank
McHugh add hilarit¥ to the. picture. The |
finish, and that’s where those come in, is |
most unexpected.

_——-.

Tuesday, Nov. 8—Six Hours to Live

The story concerns Capt. Paul Onslow, a
representative of the republic of Sylvaria,
who is strangled but is revived for six hours
by a ray device invented by Prof. Bauer
(George Marion). Before his death Onslow
was an agnostic although altruistic in his re-
lations to his country; when he returned to
life he has learned much, death to him is a

Director Dieterle has taken full advantage
of his wide scope-and produces a most com-
pelling piece of work. . Besides suspense,
which is characteristic of his work, he also
shows remarkable imagination and subtlety.

Warner Baxter as Onslow reveals his
change after death very capably. Miriam
Jordan plays the feminine lead.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY GIVES
INITIATION ENTERTAINMENT

(Continued from page 1)

presence of soft feminine creatures, and told
of the inspiration that comes to students
and professors alike when they are aware
of such a presence. He deplored the fact
that the only co-eds in Davidson were those
two graceful* maidens crowning the top of
Chambers, and predicted that in the far-dis-
tant future this would not be the case.

The final speaker, John Douglas, gave
some reasons why, in his opinion, the Dem-
ocrats should be elected over the Republic-

ity issue, showing that under Democratic
rule prosperity had reached great heights
and that soon after the Republicans had got
into power there was a complete collapse.
He stated that the only way to bring about
renewed-prosperity was to place progressive
Democratic leadership in charge in the com-
ing election.

ED AND BLACK MASQUERS
7 WILL PRESENT THREE PLAYS

(Continued from page 1)
played by John Marvin or his understudy,
Gordon Wood, who has worked in Marvin’s
place since the latter’s illness. E. A. Han-
cock will be the director and the stage man-
agement will be accomplished by Fritz Byer-
ly and Frank Cade.

The faculty advisor for all the plays is
Prof. E. J. Erwin. Make-up will be done
by Arthur Haake and Johnny Marvin, Mar-
vin and his orchestra have volunteered to
render several popular musical selections be-

ma)

beautiful thing not to be feared. ans. He based his remarks on the -prosper-|tween the performances.
> x) f Bac
U-PUSH-EMS SEETHE...STAR DIRECT
New Rates | Tailoring Display
at | EVERY THURSDAY ... at

M. P. Hiadlurinn’s

Gulf Station’

GEO. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

No raw tobaccos in Luckies
—that’s why they’re so mild

everywhere

buy the finest, the

very finest tobaccos

in all the world—but that
does not explain why folks

‘Strike as the mildest ciga-
rette. The fact is, we never
overlook the truth that
**Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild”—so these
fine tobaccos, after proper

Bransom . .
by the savage ferocity of
the striped tiger, known
throughout the world as
the terror of the jungle.
‘Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild’’—and
raw tobaccos have no
place in cigarettes,

regard Lucky

cigarettes.

aging and mellowing, are
then given the benefit of
that Lucky Strike purify-
ing process, described by
the words—"It’s toasted.”
That’s why folks in every
city, town and hamlet say
that Luckies are such mild

“It’s toasted”

That package of mild Luckies

THE
_STRIPED TIGER
“Nature in the Raw”? —

as portrayed by the
greatanimalartist, Paul

- inspired

