THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

TREKKING WEST

“SYMPHONIES UNDER STARS”
CONCERT ENJOYED

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is another request ar-
ticle in a series written by Jack Wil-
liams, Jr., who attended the National
Editorial” Association” meeting in Cati-
fornia this past summer.)

After visiting the studios we were pre-
sented with tickets in the evening and taken
in a body to a “Symphonies Under: the
Stars” concert in the Hollywood Bowl. This
was the last concert conducted by Sir Ham-
ilfon Harty, of England. Olga Steeb was
the guest artist and played a Liszt concerto.

“MARRIAGE OF FIGARO”

Mozart's “Marriage of Figaro” opened the
program. As you know, the libretto is
based on a rather risque story but Mozart’s
elegance of style and finer feeling are not
tainted with this at all.

In the Overture the composer is merry
and frolicsome all the way through and the
composition seemed to have something of
the frilled, rococo spirit: in it.

Symphony No. 1 in C-Minor, Opus 68 by
Brahms was the second numbet. The sin-
gular clarity and breadth of its structure
were noted from the first. It has four dis-
tinct movements and each one was graceful
and almost teasing in its appeal.

“WITH THE WILD GEESE”

The climax to the evening’s program was
the tonal poem ,“With the Wild Geese,” by
Sir Hamilton Harty himself. The 20,000
people assembled in the bowl were hushed
throughout, parthly in respect to the com-
poser and conductor, but mostly because
of the military grandeur of the composition.

It opened with a horn-call and was fol-
lowed by a lament. Next came a-pause dis-
turbed by the flutes and clarinets joining in
to make a gay and reckless march. The
further handling of this material culminated
in an agitated climax followed—by--a--harp
arpeggio. ;

The main theme of the next section con-
tained soft shimmering harmonies and _ to-
wards the end veiled chords. Probably the
most beautiful part of the whole prograin
was the piu tranquilla passage in the middle
in which the strings breathe out the theme,
softly dying out with a surging of the rest-
less sea. The twinkling stars above were a
benediction to the scene and on the oppo-
site hill was a lighted cross which marked
the place where the Pilgritnage Play was
being enacted.

ORANGE COUNTY :

The next morning we left Los Angeles and
motored to Fullerton. Parking the car at the
railroad station, we joined the press party
just arriving on the Santa Fe train. Citi-
zens carried us on a drive through Anaheim
and Santa Ana, the county seat to Lemon
Heights, for a panoramic view of Orange
County.

The valley was dotted with beautiful
homes, orange groves, and olive trees. At
Placenta we visited what was said to be
the largest packing plant and saw oranges
graded, washed, waxed, wrapped in tissue
paper, crated, and loaded on freight trains
bound for Eastern markets. es

A luncheon was given by the county in
Irvine Park. Orange County is said to be
the “richest county per cultivated acre in
America.” One of its scenic delights is this
160-acre park. It is really. Southern Cali-
fornia in miniature. We were driving with
a California real estate man and he couldn't
understand why we didn’t leave Georgia
pack and baggage and move to Orange
County, “the garden spot of the world.”

SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO

The next stopping point going south was
San Juan Capistrano mission located mid-
way between Los Angeles and San Diego.
Old Father O'Sullivan greeted us beneath
the historic arches bordering the court and
took us on a tour through the quadrangle,
gardens and cloisters. The mission is now
Junipero Serra in 1776.

The mission is in fair repair but parts of
it are just crumbling remains of its former
glory.: Its church is the most elaborate of
that in any of the missions.

Its ivey corridors and fountained courts
still breathe the spirit, of the, old, Franciscan
Padres and the Spanish Dons and give it
the title of the “Alhambra of the Pacific
Coast.” The bells in the Campanarie peal
as they did more than 150 years ago and the
peace and quiet of its sequestered walks is a
far cry from the rush and scramble of our
modern cities.

GLAMOROUS OLD MEXICO

After spending an hour at the mission,
we departed for Agua-Caliente. This resort

is only 18 miles below San Diego, yet it is |

exotic in its pastimes and pleasures. The

border is reached at Tiajuana. This town
is noted for its liberal attitude toward life
and has a bar 200 feet long.

On reaching the impressive campanile (bell
tower), we knew we had arrived “Where
the Rainbow Ends.” Checking in our room
which adjoined a patio filled with palms
and flowers, we had a good rest before the
others ‘arrived on the train.

AMERICA’S DEAUVILLE

A dinner was tendered in the evening to
the N. E. A.’s and the Xth Olympiad cor-
respondents just-arrived-to-cover the Olym=
pics in, Los Angeles. It was given in the
Gold Room which presented a gay setting
with its beautiful decorations. When the
orchestra played soft Spanish music, it, all
seemed like a dream.

A pair of entertainers dressed in bright
native costumes presented novelty acts
throughout the meal and they were well
received. The menu consisted of Fresh
Mango and Orange au Grand Marnier, Cel-
ery Hearts, Colossal Olives, Crissinis, Terapin
Consomme en Tasse Jerez Ambar, Breast of
Capon saute Garnie Alexandra, Potatoes,
Rissoles Olivettes, New Peas Francaise, But-

tered New Asparagus, Salad Amazone,
Fresh Strawberry Mousse Phantasie, and

Petit Noir.

One of the most famous sopranos in Mex-
ican opera was present. The conductor of
the orchestra requested her to sing and she
graciously granted the request. She sang
“Marquita” and was encored time and time
again. The Mexicans especially enjoyed her
singing and were generous in their applause.
AGUA CALIENTE SPA

There—was so much going on at Agua
Caliente that_there never was a dull mo-
ment. A group of college boys and girls
were in the press party and we tried to take
it all in. Perhaps one of the nicest fea-
tures of this resort is its million-dollar pool.
That night we gave a swimming party and
enjoyed a swim in this beautiful plunge.

Before leaving the next morning, we
passed the Golf Club where the world’s larg-
est open golf tournament is annually played.
The Jockey Club is also a show place for
it ranks with the best race tracks in the
country. We had such a good time in Mex-

ico we hated to leave, but we had_to when,

the others left and carly that morning de-
parted for San Diego.

Amherst President
Believes in Reliance

Believes Rules Regarding Motor Cars
Should Be Relaxed

Amherst, Mass.—(IP)—Coddling of stu-
dents was denounced by Amherst College’s
new lawyer-president last week as he gave
his inaugural address to the student body
and visiting college presidents.

Students, he said, should be self-reliant by
the time they get to college. He continued:

“IT would trust them to live from day to
day as young men should, instead of trying
to prepare them for living. I would regard
them from the start as young citizens, in-
stead of hoping to train them to be citizens
in the future.

“As one necessary step in this direction,
my colleagues and I have relaxed the rules
for motor cars in Amherst, which were im-
posed some years ago after a series of tragic
accidents. Instead of being completely
banned, motor cars will be regarded as a
privilege open to any upperclassmen in good
standing with a scholastic average of 75,
if he submits a written request from his
parent or guardian.”

Intercollegiate Press

| fecting

Riverside, Cal.—(IP)—The’ annual Insti-
tute of World Affairs which will open its
1932 meeting here December 11, will have
a week’s intensive study of problems af-
various countries. The topics will
include economics, science, education, polit-
ical activities, social movements and govern-
ment policies.

Along-with-the-announcement of the pro-
gram comes the announcement that a new
quarterly journal, “World Affairs Inter-
preter,” is to be published by the Los An-
geles University of International Relations,
affiliated with the University of Southern
California.

Chicago, I1—(UP)—Dean Arthur Becker
of DePaul University’s School of Music as-
serts that in his co-ed chorus blonds prove
to be the sopranos and brunets the
best altos.

best

New York—(IP)—Complete reorganization
of the Republican party is needed to save it
from the fate of the old Whig party, Dr.
Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Co-
lumbia University, asserted last week. Said
he:

“Tf the younger members of the party will
exert themselves to seek and to produce
constructive, forward-facing and _ liberal
leadership, the party, despite its overwhelm-
ing defeat, may be quickly reorganized and
given new strength and new spirit for an-
other generation of public service.

“Tf something of this sort cannot be done,
then the party will have gone the way of
the Whig party.”

Seattle, Wash—(IP)—Eugene  Ercken-
brack, undérgraduate at the University of
Washington, is happy over the Presidential
He spent most of his time before
election day campaigning for Roosevelt over
his amateur radio station W7VY.

Opening his. broadcast a couple of nights
before the election, he recounts, he started
his “vote. for Roosevelt” plea, then_signed
off to pick up replies, arguments, and maybe
converts. 4

Within a few minutes in came’ station
WOZH of Palo Alto,-Cal., and-Arekenbrack
began his argument. :

His listener broke in and suggested:

“You better look up my name in the call
book.”

Erckenbrack did.
Herbert Hoover, Jr.

election.

He found it listed to

Pasadena, Cal—(IP)—As an experiment,
Occidental and Santa Barbara State Colleges
recently played a game with two twelve-
men teams,

Observers expressed the belief that the
only advantage shown was a speeding up
of the, game. :

On each team the twelfth man acted as
field general only, taking no physical paft
in the plays. For Occidental Harry Win-
terburn, an injured quarterback, acted as
field géneral. Occidental won.

Chicago—(IP)—In three important football
games in one day touchdowns were scored
on the opening kickoffs.

In the game between Wisconsin and Min-
nesota, McGuire received the ball for Wis-
consin and ran &5 yards for a touchdown
on the kickoff.

In the’ Bowdoin-Wesleyan game, Schlums

Aln Invitation to You - - To tm:
The Drug Store for Davidson Students

The New COLLEGE PHARMACU

, Watch Our Windows for “Specials That Save" *

117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

A. M. MANSON

received for Wesleyan and went 85 yards
to the goal. -

Melinkovich ran the ball back 98 yards for
Notre Dame against Northwestern on the
kickoff.

Princeton, N. J—(IP)—Dean Clarence W.
Mendell of Yale College, now on sabbatical

leave in Rome, Italy, is,reported to have been,

offered the presidency of Princetén Univer-
sity to succeed Dr. John Grier Hibben.

All great artists were men of learning and
many were the intellectual giants of their
time.—President Llewellyn of the Royal
Academy.

Mrs. Smith’s Arm Is
Broken by Bad Fall

Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormi-
tories, suffered a painful fracture of her
right forearm Saturday about noon when
she slipped and fell in front of East Dormi-
tory. At the time Mrs. Smith was going
from her office in Watts to her home, and
after the fall she continued on home, calling
the doctor when she arrived. He pronounced
the break to be a bad one, and predicted that
she will not be out for several weeks.

Mrs. Smith had considered going to Win-
ston-Salem in order that an X-ray might be
made of the broken bone, but due to the
recent cold weather she has delayed making
the trip. She is not suffering severely at
present but the arm is proving to be quite
an inconvenience.

Mrs. Smith’s presence will be greatly
missed on the campus and her return will
be looked forward to.

Oterbein Students
Protest Suspension

Westerville, O—(IP)—Social affairs at
Otterbein College were in an indefinite state
last week the campus rose in revolt
against the suspension of a fraternity presi-

as

dent because_the—-fraternity—violated=the-cot

lege rule against dancing.

Pi Beta Sigma held a formal, party in a
Columbus hotel on a Saturday night at which
dancing took place. Dale B. Evans, presi-
dent of the fraternity, was suspended indefi-
nitely as a result.

Evans had been warned before the party
that dancing was not to be allowed at it.
He told the college authorities that the plans
all had been made and that could
nothing to stop*them.

Otterbein's other five fraternities backed
Pi Beta Sigma in a heated protest against
the suspension action, and things began to
go from bad to worse, with the college au-
thorities asserting that the no-dancing rule
was to be enforced at all costs.

he do

a

NOTICE
/Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

George Milton Awards

The late George F, Milton, distinguished
Southern writer and journalist, and, until his
death in 1924, president and editor of the
Chattanooga News, was long animated by
an earnest desire to render permanent:serv-
ice to the cause of international peace. Un-
der his will a fund was established to offer
the George F. Milton awards in journalism.
with the hope of ‘furthering this and other
worthy causes. .

For 1932, a cash award of $250.00 will be
made to the writer who shall publish in any
newspaper or periodical in the South dur-
ing the calendar year 1932 the best editorial
or editorials advancing the cause of Inter-
national Peace. The term “South” shall be
understood to mean the following states:
Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Ala-
bama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Maryland.
The term “editorial” shall mean an article
prepared by, or under the jurisdiction of, the
editorial staff of a newspaper or periodical
and reecting the paper's point of view.

The awards are not administered as a
competition, but are bestowed in recognition
of a service rendered to the cause of In-
ternational: Peace. Throughout the year the
administrators will use every effort to sur-
vey the Southern field for contributions to-
ward this cause. Editors, however, are asked
to lend their assistance by submitting copies
of printed editorials in behalf of Interna-
tional Peace in order that none worthy of
consideration may, be overlooked. They
should submit two clippings of their pub-
lished articles pasted upon white sheets
84x11 inches. One sheet should be labeled
with the name and address of the author,
name of periodical in’ which the article ap-
peared and date of publication. The other
sheet should contain only the clipping. All
communications should be addressed to “The
George F. Milton” Award, Division of Uni-
versity Extension, Box 4218, The University
of Tennesse, Knoxville, Tennessee,” and
must be received by December 31, 1932,

In_ addition to the award in journalism.
the Milton fund provides for a cash award
of $200.00 to the woman writer in the South
who has accomplished most for her sex.
The estimate of achievement will not be nec-
essarily based upon work accomplished dur-
ing the calendar year 1932, nor necessarily
upon work of purely literary merit. The ad-
ministrators ask the co-operation of all wom-
en’s organizations throughout the South in
suggesting women whose outstanding serv-
ice merits consideration by the judges.

Both decisions will be announced as soon
as possible after the first of the year, and
checks will be mailed to the winners. The
administrators reserve the right to withhold
awards if no contributions are deemed suffi-
ciently worthy.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men
Come Here”

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

BON ART STUDIOS

ANNOUNCES

That all Davidson men who have not
been able to secure any four Special
$1.00 Certificates may obtain sittings at
the Studio under the same conditions.

1408 First National Bank Building
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

a
os
bs

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

b

fe
SEE THE ... STAR DIRECT

Tailoring Display
SENIORS---Dec. Ist will be the last day for you to
get measured for Blazers

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP .

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

“DRUGS”

Student

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

e
“SODAS”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

