THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

ALL-STATE TEAMS .
ARE NAMED
BY DAVIDSONIAN

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON MAY
ENTER SOUTHERN
CONFERENCE

“All I can say is that I’m tickled to
death that we finally got it,” replied Dr.
Oren Moore, Davidson’s most enthusi-
astic football follower, just after the
Wildcats had defeated Wake Forest 7-0.
Those very words express the sentiments
of every student on the campus. And
why shouldn’t they? It was the first
time since 1920 that a Davidson team
has walked off the field victorious over
Wake Forest.

The Wildcat victory was more impressive
than it would have been had everything run
off smoothly. Pearce’s kickoff return for a
touchdown at the opening of the second half
was ruled illegal and Davidson was penal-
ized because, according to Umpire Sholar,
of Presbyterian College, there were not five
Wildcats across the 45-yard line at the kick-
off. From that time on all of Davidson’s

hopes of obtaining victory seemed to fade}
away. Then late in the game, the ever-alert |

Pearce intercepted a Deacon pass and ran
55 yards for the only touchdown of the
game, to grab the game which seemed taken
away from the Wildcats.

Pearce finished his college football ca-
reer in a blaze of glory by his great all-
around work last Thursday. To him it
was another football game, but to the
P s and stud: it was his great-
est game. ‘The little flash always does
his best when opposed by the Demon
Deacons. Last spring Pearce defeated
the champion Wake Forest baseball team
1 to 0 to give Davidson her only Big
Five victory. He allowed them two hits
that day. Thursday his two touchdowns,
one illegal and one legal, gave Davidson
her only Big Five football victory.

tat, t:

Captain “Buddy” Gardner played a great
game Thursday despite his injured knee. His
appearance in the line-up seems to add fire
to the Wildcats and it was there in the
Wake Forest game. Jack Wagner, Bruce
Peabody, and Dick Whitfield also made bril-
liant showing in their final game. Peabody
made his placement good to make Davidson's
total seven points, and also returned punts
and blocked in fine style.

Coaches Newton and McEver have
succeeded in their first year at Davidson.
Davidson has won four games, tied one,
and lost four for an even break for the
season under the new Tennessee style of
play. The Wildcats have scored 82
points while holding opponents to 52.
In only two of the nine games have they
failed to score. Only twice have more
than two touchdowns been made against
them. Duke and Carolina hold the hon-
or of crossing the Davidson goal line
twice while holding the ’Cats scoreless.

Although the Wildcats did not pile up any
great offensive record, its defensive work
this season is-something to brag about. Four
teams were able to cross the Davidson goal
only once, two crossed it twice, and three
others failed to tally.

Coach Red Laird will build his basket-
ball team around Captain Bruce Peabody
and Jack Wagner, two football stars who
can perform on the hardwood courts as
brilliantly as they do on the gridiron.
Laird looks forward to a most success-
ful season. Sophomores will likely fill
the other three positions.

eee

Doc Mathis will take charge of Freshman
basketball this winter. He showed coaching
ability on the gridiron and should be more
successful on the courts than he was with
football. He was a basketball star in high
school, but he never played football before
coming to Davidson.

|Davidsonian Editor Picks
| All-Star Football Teams

Five Davidson Stars Awarded Places
on All-State Elevens

With the close of every sport season there

Z|comes the choosing of .outstanding players
g for different positions and the selection of

| all-star teams. Since we see that every
‘sports writer, whether he is connected with
| the nation’s largest dailies or with the coun-
try’s smallest weeklies, is now concerned
with the picking of all-star football teams,
-we become zealous also and try our hand
at it.

Our selection concerns the Big Five in
North Carolina, of which Davidson, Duke,
Carolina, N. C. State, and Waké Forest are
members. We have seen teams from all of
jthe above schools play at least once, and
| have watched several perform on numerous
| occasions.

Our selection, which will be found else-
where on this page, is to us a most careful
| pick. Although newspaper writeups may
| have influenced us a little in several selec-
ltions, we have tried to pick the man who
played his position best when we saw him
|play. The number of games in which the
man played was also taken into considera-
tion. Injuries have handicapped some men
and for that reason they have not performed
|their best. We look upon that as tough
| luck and consider those who were mainstays
'on Big Five teams.
| The distribution of positions on the two se-
lections is as follows: State, six men; Duke
and’ Davidson, five men each; Carolina and
Wake Forest, three men each. On the first
team, Duke and Davidson each place three
men, State and Carolina each two men and
| Wake Forest one man.

| The first team, we think, would satisfy

ing tackles, light but sturdy and tough

guards, and an ever-awake center.

| line.

biggest problem of the whole selection. Both
Underwood of Carolina, and Espey of State

for his great play against Davidson and
against Duke.

the team.

eliminates the Wildcat captain.
son, DeAngelis, of Wake Forest, Werner, of

Rives’ work has been evident in the David-
son line all year.

Three tackles stand “head _and_ shoulders
jabove all others in the state. The highly-

Davidson, and Swann, of Wake Forest, have
| showed their metal all season. These three

are a credit to any all-state eleven.
of State, and Tatum, of Carolina, were prom-
inent for their teams against the Wildcats
and so are mentioned,

Every team in the Big Five boasted of at
least one stellar end. Carolina seemed to be
gifted with the best pair of flankmen in
Walker and Brandt. Duke had Rossiter,
State her Greason, Wake Forest her Green,
and Davidson her Morris and Morgan. Of
this array, Rossiter, Greason, Green and
Morgan are punters and all have served in
that capacity. Walker appears to be the best
defensive end of the group, Morris the best
going down on punts.’ Walker and Rossiter
get first call with Greason and Green fol-
lowing.

The:quarterback post goes to Lowell Ma-
son, who almost flawlessly directed Duke’s
play through the season. He is one of the
State’s best blockers and can pass and run.
Wilson and McQuage of State, Mackorell
of Davidson, and Wall of Wake Forest seem

All-star selections throughout the state
recognize Pearce, Wagner, Rives and
Mackorell as Davidson's best men. Gard-
ner,.Morgan, Willson, ‘Wingfield, Morris,
Whitfield, Hand, and Peabody have

crashed several selections.

the desires of any North Carolina coach.
The line is featured by fast ends, hard charg-

Clean
play has marked the play of each of these
linemen in games which we saw them play.
{In the backfield are two triple-threat half-
| backs, a smart quarterback who can block,
fand a hard driving fullback who can always
; be counted on for a few yards through any

Starting at center, we are faced with the

have been playing great ball all year and on
a par with each other. Underwood is chosen

In the only game we saw
|Espey play he did not show all-state calibre,
| but newspapers—influence.his selection on
Gardner, of Davidson, showed
more ability in the few quarters he was able
to play this year than did either Underwood
or Espey, but failure to see enough service

Guards in abundance, but Rives, of David-
Duke, and Stanko, of State get the call.
DeAngelis, Werner and
Stanko are selected because of their good|Wagner has been a mainstay at tackle for

work against Davidson. Kahn, of Carolina, the past three years, having earned the po-
and Schock, of Duke, were also considered.

touted Crawford, of Duke, Jack Wagner, of

|have been most valuable to their teams and
Seitz,

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAM
AS PICKED BY ODI CASALI
First Team Position Second Team
Walker (Carolina) -------------------- Mi Baicccc sls caecsbuwaannn Greason (State)
Crawford (Duke) --------------------- lorrerprerrrerrrsy iy ris Seitz (State)
DeAngelis (Wake Forest) --.---------- ING eee ssc cecesecueres Werner (Duke)
Underwood (Carolina) --------+----- Centers 2 oo cee as23 (Capt.) Espey (State)
Rives (Davidson) --------------------- IG we ecsccctescceccl sche Stanko (State)
Wagner (Davidson) ------------------ R.T.____-------.---2 Swann’ (Wake Forest)
Rossiter (Duke) ----------------------- RUEKe coc eecsuecccuuse Green (Wake Forest)
Mason (Duke) ----------------------- OB izsces cedar aceeS Mackorell (Davidson)
Pearce (Davidson) (Capt.) ------------ odiesassssccsaccoscccccsaee 2 Laney (Duke)
McAdams (State) -------------------- Rib isetcsvencssossce Chandler (Carolina)
Cumiskey (State) --.------------------ RAB ace oceolcecsuecoess Willson (Davidson)

to be on a par, but Mackorell, because of
his sensational “running, passing and punt-
ing, gets the pick for the second team.
Among the halfbacks, Pearce, of Davidson,
is the best of the lot. He is smart, always
alert, and has been the spark in Davidson’s

pended upon for moré work than any man
in the entire all-star eleven, Block, tackle,
break up passes, run, pass, and punt are
things he can do better than the average
player. For these reasons he is chosen to
captain our first selection.

Pearce’s: running-mate was chosen after
|| considering the play of Laney of Duke, Mc-
Adams, Roy and Rex of State, Chandler and
McCaskill of Carolina, Wilson of Wake For-
est. and Peabody of Davidson. Laney and
McAdams are triple-threat and are favored,
but the latter gets first choice because of
lis smarter play. Chandler rates the ‘re-
naining halfback post on the second team
Yecause of his defensive play.

The fullback position goes to Cumiskey of
State, who because of his hard plunging, has
not failed to gain through any line in the
Big Five. Willson of Davidson seems to be
the only other prominent fullback in the
state, although he did not play in the first
few games of the season. His offensive and
defensive work against State and against
Wake Forest places him on the second team
ahead of Rex of State, and Ershler of Duke.

Of the select teams, Walker, Underwood,
Wagner, Mason, Pearce, Cumiskey, Greason,
Seitz, Werner, Espey, Green and Chandler
are Seniors.

Newton Names Three

Wildcats on All-State

Wagner, Rives and Pearce Earn Berth
on Davidson Coach’s Selection

“Doc” Newton head football coach at Da-
vidson, selected threecof’his own players on
his mythical. All-State... Eleven, which he
picked for Charlotte newspapers. A similar
number of Duke and N. C. State players
were also chosen, while only one was picked
from Wake Forest and Carolina.

Jack Wagner, tackle; Chas. Rives, guard,
and Charlie Pearce, halfback, were Newton-
coached members of the chosen team. Wag-
ner and Pearce are Seniors and both have
worn Wildcat uniforms in previous seasons.

sition when he was a Sophomore. Pearce
was forced out’ his Sophomore year because
of an injured ankle, but has played regular-
ly the past two years.. He was the Wildcats’
leading scorer this year with 24 points.

Rives, although a Junior in the college,
wore a Wildcat uniform for the first, time
this year. His play in the Davidson line
has been consistent as well as spectacular in
every game.

Coach Newton’s selections follow:

Ends—Rossiter (Duke), Green (Wake For-
est). Tackles—Crawford (Duke), Wagner
(Davidson). Guards—Rives (Davidson),
Stanko (State). Center—Espey (State).
Quarterback—Mason’ (Duke). Halfbacks—
Pearce (Davidson), Chandler (Carolina).
Fullback—Cumiskey (State).

Younger Congratulates
Davidson’s Fine Victory

Davidson’s victory over Wake Forest here
last Thursday brought pleasure to “Monk”
Younger, former Davidson: coach, who is
now connected with V. P. I. athletics.
Younger was so impressed with the Wildcat
victory that he sent a wire congratulating
the team for its success.

The former Davidson coach never had the
pleasure of defeating a Wake Forest team
in his stay here. On several occasions his
teams had to be content with tie games, but
not once did a Younger-directed team enjoy
victory over the Demon Deacons.

Younger has met with success in his first
season at V. P. I., and has directed the Gob-

spirited play in every game. He can be de-

blers to one of the best football seasons they
have ever enjoyed. His team went through
a nine-game schedule and suffered only one
defeat, that at the hands of Alabama by a
9-7 score. It defeated Roanoke College,
Georgia, Maryland, William and Mary, Ken-
tucky, Washington and Lee, Virginia, and
V. M. I, to finish among the leaders in the
Southern Conference this year.

“Monk” left Davidson last spring to help
direct athletics at his alma mater. His tele-
gram, which was sent to Buddy Gardner,
follows: “Captain Buddy Gardner: Congrat-
ulations to team, new coaches and Doctor
Charley on fine victory, Monk Younger.”

S. P. E.’s to Meet K. A.’s
In Volley Ball Finals

By winning two straight games from the
Kappa Sigs in the semi-finals Monday, the
S. P. E.’s won the right to meet the K. A.’s
in the finals to decide the championship of
Davidson's inter-fraternity volley ball tour-
nament.

The S. P. E’s fought their way to the
finals by defeating the Pi Kappa Phis in
the preliminaries, the T. U. O.'s in the tri-
finals, and the Kappa Sigs in the semi-
finals,

The K. A.’s won the privilege to fight for
the championship by defeating the Betas in
the preliminaries, the S. A. E.’s ‘in the tri-
finals, and by drawing a bye in the semi-
finals.

The two teams will meet in the final game
on Thursday, December Ist. The winning
team will receive 20 points toward the ath-
letic trophy, presented at the end of the
year to the fraternity having the highest
number of points. The runner-up will re-

Statistics
WAKE FOREST-DAVIDSON
GAME

; W. F. Dav.
Yds gained from scrimmage 136 82
Yds lost at scrimmage---._-_ 10 18
Passes attempted ---------- 17 10
Passes completed _-_--------- 6 1
Passes incompleted -_--.----- 7 8
Passes intercepted __-------- 4 1
Yds gained from passes___- 70 10

Net yardage from passes and
scrimmage and passes_---196 74

Yds intercepted passes re-
tuned sooo os 8 2 oa aee oe oeos 0 67
First downs ___.------------ 12 6
Average length of punts__. 37 34
Yds punts returned_-_-_------ 40 39
Fumbles--==2=2=-=<===:-2+----+ 4 4
Opponents’ fumbles rec’v’r'd 1 1
Yds lost from penalties_-_-_-- 50 35

Wildkitten Runners Win |
From High Point High

End Successful Season With Merchant
and Frazier Leading Scorers

Davidson’s Freshman cross-country team
closed its season here last Wednesday by de-
feating runners from High Point High
School by a score of 24-31. The victory was
the fourth scored by the Wildkittens this
year.

_Earle Frazier, sensational Freshman run-

ner who has not failed to finish first in any

meet which he has entered this year, ran
the two-mile course in 10 minutes and 31.6
seconds to lead the field. He was closely
followed by Merchant, also of the Davidson
team.

Davidson runners won first, second, fifth,
seventh, and ninth places to obtain low total.
The order of the finish was: Frazier (D),
Merchant (D), Smith (HP), Ellington (HP),
Glass (D), Hubbard (HP), Shuford (D), D.
Hubbard (HP), Young (D), and Cook (HP).

With this victory the Freshmen brought
to a close one of the most successful seasons
ever enjoyed by a Wildkitten cross-country
team. In winning four out of five meets
the Kittens scored 135 points while forcing
opponents to be content with 222, The only
defeat this year was administered by the
Duke University Freshman team, which
beat Davidson 22-33 in a meet at Durham.

Other results include: Davidson 23, Char-
lotte High 64; 24, Winston-Salem High 31;
31, Charlotte High 74; and 24, High Point 31.

Individual high scoring honors, which is
based on the 5, 4, 3, 2,-1 grading, went to
Merchant who had one first place and five
second places for a total of 25 points. Mer-
chant won a second place in the Guilford-
Varsity meet in which he was permitted to
run, Frazier, with four firsts, was—next in
scoring with 20 points. He failed to make
the trip for the-Duke meet, but ran in all
the others.

Names of eight members of the Freshman
team will be submitted to the Athletic Coun-
cil for numeral awards for services per-
formed in the five meets, it was announced
by Heath Whittle, track coach. The award
list includes: Frazier, Merchant, Shuford,
Glass, Young, Foy, Smith, and Harlan.

Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., was busy play-
ing football for Groton School against St.
Marks on Novembtr 8, while the. rest of
the country was busy selecting his dad as
President of the United States. Frankie’s
team lost, 7 to 0,

How They Finished

(BIG FIVE RACE)

W. . 1. Ret:
Dukescesccsss 422 3231220. -750
Carolina__..------:==a Aan) Visee | 667 |
INi2C-State=- 2: ecco oe p Rees fest | -667
Davidson ------------ 1. 3) 6 250
Wake Forest __------ On 2.2 .000

ceive 15 points, the third team will receive
10 points, and the next in order will receive
five points to its credit.

High Class Work at Economical_Prices

MARTIN BROS.’
SHOE SHOP

We Are Ready For an

Old Fashion Christmas

at

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

