THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

DWARD_O. GUERRANT-.---~----22 2-2-2 Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON B Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Wo, Ws GUARD acaus does cucccbscuccccasaacesseds Managing Editor
A, F. SCHENCK. Managing Editor

M. THO Neate raya Ese meee Managing Editor
JACK_WILLIAMS.....-......---..- cr td Editor
ODI SALI Athletic Editor

‘ ANCHRGECiLS be ssacusdscsacsusncascuahiaee Exchange Editor
. W. WHITE Feature Editor
«+ S. GAMBLE ...Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKE ntributing Editor
E. A. HANCOCK- ...-Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE...-..... -Associate Editor
Cc. F. ERS... Associate Editor
B, Bh SUGG 22 o ps... dasesssessunscccsceun le ces Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. iT. LeueON seoEiesecagauses Assistant Business Manager
A, H. MANSON.--- istant Busi N
ALVIN_ BAYER, iis asad cd olicitor
H:-B: DANIEL--- olicitor
J, M. DOUGLAS olicitor
G, L. GREEN_- olicitor
W._P.. SPRUNT olicitor
» R. TAYLOR _- olicitor
: A. C. WADSWORTH pe olicitor
. E, WHITE..2... olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

i: E. LAKE..__... ee President
$210) GAMES AR sSbbbnaducceubeckindedassucsedgansde Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG... Secretary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN jj L. McCLINTOCK

R. H. ALDERMAN V. L. McILWINEN

G. E, BAILY E, McPHAIL

D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL

. C. BARNES W. L. NORTHEN

. E. BOWERS Cc. E. NORVELL

J. E. BOYD E, L. POWELL

. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON

S. K. E. )y P. M. ROGERS

J. B. FIC N B. L. ROSE

G. L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON

ee HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C. HENRY K, D. WEEKS

k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD

. EF, LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON’

T, F. WOO. us W. WHITE

W. F. MULLISS uR. PRATT: THOMAS
[=

OCTOBER 5, 1932 .

_ All the American people expect of a President
is that he be a.combination of A hoses, Demosthenes,
St. Paul, and Santa Claus.

D
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

As the Freshmen approach their first college re-
views, we wish them the best of success. Our advice
fs to study—and remember that your parents at home
are counting on you.

D.

The big bats of the New York Yankees seemed

unstoppable as they clouted homers to win the World
Series in short order.

D.

The offensive of the Wildcats last Saturday was
much improved. oy

D

After the lacing Duke gave V. M. I., we do not fee!
so badly about the 13-0 victory over Davdison.

D

Davidson is proud of the success of Monk Younger

and Tex Tilson in leading V. P. I. to a 7-6 victory

over the University of Georgia. Quite a: difference
from last year’s score. Georgia 40, V. P. I. 0.

D

To the Freshmen who have not yet attended a
“Y” vesper service, we wish to urge you to do so.
Vespers are an integral part of Davidson. The habit

of attending each Sunday evening is an excellent one
to form.

D

The publicity given Davidson bygneighboring papers
is sincerely appreciated.

| > j= SAS

In former years the most active groups on the
Davidson campus were the literary societies. These

ieties plished a great deal in those days, and
as the purpose is still essentially the same, great ben-
efit can be-derived by those seeking it. We are sure
that both Freshmen and upperclassmen will find it
profitable to affiliate with one of the societies.

D:

According. to those who were in attendance, the

dance held«in Charlotte last Saturday night by the~

Pan-Hellenic Council was a success.

D

With the work which the team will receive this
week we should place an eleven on the field against
Wofford at the end of the week which will be more
elusive and powerful than they were in jis W.& L.
game.

D

The kicking of Pearce so far this season has been
excellent. He would be an asset to the team for this
ability alone.

D

Let’s try to remember that chapel exercises are
essentially a religious service, and we should conduct
ourselves with this view in mind.

D.

We feel that there are many conflicting views about
‘the coming election this fall, and if any student would
like to express his thoughts in writing, we will gladly
publish any articles which are handed to any of the
managing editors or to the editor.

+—might -differ-in his interpretation.

DAVIDSON AND HONOR

Among the various institutions which we
cherish here at Davidson, our honor-system
ranks very high. This is something any col-
lege or university may well be proud of, and
although there are some minor defects in our
system here, on the whole it has always func-
tioned most satisfactorily and in accordance
with the will of the entire student body.
Otherwise it.could not function at all.

The word honor has had various meanings
as interpreted by various types of people of
different ages, mentalities, localities; races and
moralities>; One person might consider some
act perfectly honorable, whereas someone else
Each year
students fail to realize that cheating on re-
views and examinations is a ‘yery serious
breach of the honor system, and as a result
of this they have become very seriously in-
volved with the Student Council> Some new
students come from, high schools where such
conduct as this is not dealt with as severely
as it is dealt with here at Davidson, and many
times the realization of this fact has come too

late to benefit them. Most students here would.

inherently refrain from cheating or even the
appearance of such actions, but unfortunate
cases of this have arisen in the past and prob-
ably will arise in the future where some stu-
dent has not lived up to the code set down by
the Davidson student body.

Each Freshman is supposed to have read the
Constitution of Davidson College and part of
it has been read in the hearing of the entire
student body at the chapel services, but there
are always some who do not seem to realize
the importance of this question at Davidson.
The standard of morats and ethics at Davidson
is higher than at many institutions, but it is
not any higher than it should be, and it is the
duty of every student of this college to lift it
to even higher levels than it has been in the
past. :

OUR COACHES

This article in praising the work of our new
coaches may seem to be appearing at a rather
inauspicious time, since we waited until we
had won a game before we printed it. This,
however, is not the reason that it is in this
issue, for both games played this, season have
reflected the time, energy and ability which
hoth “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver have
spent on the team.

It is a difficult task for two men who have

never worked together in the capacity of'
coaches to come to_a college and install an en-
tirely different system of football as success-
fully as these two men have done here at Da-
vidson. Although we lost the first game, we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we lost
this game to a team-which probably will rank
high in the Southern Cenference this fall, if
we can judge from the game they played with
V. M. I. last Saturday.g¢ Duke may claim that
they have improved Be ad playing us, but*any-
one who saw the Duke and Washington and
Lee games must certainly admit that our team
has greatly improved also. Although some of
the plays lack the precision that will undoubt-
edly come later in the’ season, we could see
from—the—number of different plays in this
game—tast- Saturday that Meck ver—has—hbeen:
teaching his backfield men some excellent
football. :
' The performance of the line so far this sea-
son has been a tribute to the work of Newton.
Of course the loss of Captain Buddy Gardner
for the time being anyway, has been unforti-
nate, but the number of reserves this year
have been very beneficial.

These new coaches seem to have come upon
the correct solution when they added more
deception to our attack. We usually have very
light teams, and with a deceptive attack we
can gain far more than with sheer power
plays. :

Although we shall not attempt to predict
the results of any of the remaining games thts
season, we.can rest assured that whatever the
outcome, our team is doing its best under the
instruction of the most capable pair of coaches
we could secure.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

‘ Duke

So Wallace Wade only had to open his bag of
tricks for one minute in the. Duke-Davidson game in
order to overcome-Davidson., Why didn’t he use his
great bag of tricks when Duke was down on David-
son’s five-yard line so that Duke could beat us a
little more? Perhaps he didn’t have but one trick and
that worked. i

Duke will have their home-coming on October 15
with Maryland as their opponent. To add tothe
attraction of the day there will be an organ recital
before the game and afterwards the fraternities are
holding house parties.

There are 2,343 students registered in Duke. Uni-
versity proper. This is not counting the graduate
school. aa

University of South Carolina
There are 1,047 students registered at the Game-
cock school of Columbia.
The students in this college have formed a Roose-

velt-Garner club. Long live the Democrats!
6

reading glass as is used on ordinary transits.

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

Modern science has.developed’ many ways of cut-
ting hard substances. Steel may be cut by an oxy-
acetylene torch, or by harder steel. The latest method
for cutting steel is to use common water. This may
sound unreasonable, but the liquid may be used to
cut metal, not slowly, but swiftly. A machine has

been made which revolves plugs of steel at a very”

high rate of speed. In fact the plugs travel at a ve-
locity greater than that of sound in air. At this high
speed the plugs pass through small jets of water.
«The result is a rapid wearing away of the metal.
The machine has been built in Oakland, California,
and is used to determine the erosive effect of water
upon ship propellers and of fog, upon airplane pro-
pellers.

When is a gift not a gift? This question might well
be asked by Jose Frassel, a tailor in Elyria, Ohio,
who sent a pair of overalls to a friend in Germahy
‘as a gift. The overalls were returned and Frassel
received a letter from his friend saying that he was
not able to accept the gift, because the duty on the
garment would amount to over two dollars, or the
equivalent of the friend’s week’s wages. This peculiar
incident shows not only the high protective duty on
imports into Germany, but also the extremely low
wage scale in that country.

The government has been called upon to do many
rare and impossible things, but possibly the most
peculiar request was that made by a housewife in
Colorado. During .a heavy downpour recently, the
housewife called up the police station, telling the
police that the heavy rains were flooding her base-
ment, and asking the officer to “come up and shut
this water off.” Some day in the future man may
be able to control the weather, but at present this is
impossible, so the housewife’s request was not
granted. :

Herr von Bohlen, head of the Krupp munitions fac-
tories at Essen, Germany, is a very strong advocate
of German arms equality. “He urges that the arms
of Germany be. permitted to be on an equal basis
with the other countries, declaring, however, that it

_ is not~a desire on his part for getting orders for his

factory, but that he thinks this step necessary to

insure peace and economic soundness in Europe. In®

fact, Herr von Bohlen does not want to increase the
German arms, but to reduce the arms of the other
countries.

The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey has
perfected a transit which measures angles so accur-
ately that the error would be one foot in forty miles.
This very accurate instrument has a scale so fine that
the readings must be made with a microscope, not a
This
accurate imstrument is used to measure a base line,
and after getting that, to measure the angle between
this line and a desired point. For this work it is nec-
essary that special instruments be used, and that the
work be done at night to prevent the sun from heat-
ing and expanding the instruments unequally and
causing an error.

Mahatma Gan by his recent fast, has again
brought up the question-often-asked by medical au-
thorities: How long can a man live without food?
Many records of past périods: of fasting are on file,
and the medical students have at least come.to a
rough estimate. This estimate must necessarily be
very inaccurate, since each man has a different length
of endurance, and the conditions under which he fasts
vary. It is known that without either food or water,
life is limited t9-fifteen or twenty days. Food with-
out water cuts down the life limit._ Water without
food increases the length of time one can fast. The
size, weight, and sex of the subject have a great deal
to do with the time, since the length partially de-
pends upon the amount of energy stored up in the
body tissues. Up until the present time there is no
absolutely scientific data on the effect of fasting. Par-
tial starvation has been closely observed, but as yet

(no one has cared to starve to death for the sake of

science.
With the approach
for the formation of a

of the new German elections
new Reichstag, the Nazis, Hit-

V. M. I.

’

The corps of V. M. IL. together with the corps of-

V. P. L, is planning to go over to Richmond for the
unveiling of the Virginia World War Memorial caril-
lon om October 15.

The Cadet gives us a list of the CBS's broadcast
of football games this season. Here is a list of the
more important:

October 15—Army-Pittsburgh, at West Point.

October 22—Yale-Army, at New Haven.

October 29 (tentative)—Notre Dame-Pittsburgh, at
Pittsburgh. “4 ve ,

November 19—Yale-Harvard, at New Haven.

November 26—Army-Notre Dame, at New York.

December 3—Army-Navy, at Philadelphia.

December 10—Southern California-Notre Dame, at
Los Angeles. bd

December 17—California-Georgia
Francisco.

“If Gene McEver, late of the U. of Tennessee, can
coach as well as he can play football, Davidson is
sho’ going to be a tough team to beat this year.”—
The Cadet. Amen, brother.

Tech, at San

There are about twenty or more papers down at
the “Y” reading room.

... Al Stevens of Schenectady, New York, arrive
in town about 8:30 Wednesday morning’ after an
all-night hike from Charlotte. He went over to. see
a girl and had to walk back. He left Charlotte at
10:30 p. m. and was just in time for his first period
class.

... Arthur Ross confidentially tellme.that he is
“just like an old lady about cold weather and when
winter comes the only thing he can do is sit on the
radiator.”

B. B. Sugg throw out a “bon jour” to some
friends as he passed through the portals of Chambers
Building last Thursday morning and then majestical-
ly ascend the stairs.

Pete Whittle tell about chasing a porcupine
up a mountain on his trip West. The animal started
such strange tactics that Pete decided it wasn’t a
porcupine after all. When asked why he fled down
the mountain, he said for his “dear ole alma mater.”

... Sonny Freeman circling over the campus Tues-
day afternoon in his airplane. We guess it was
Sonny. You can't keep up with all the student body,
it seems, if you don’t fly a plane. But then if it
wasn't Sonny, who was it?

... the owner of the locket with the name “Ellen”
on it about which an announcement was made in
chapel come up sheepishly to claim it afterwards.

... Buck Ross scuffling with Red Stewart in front
of the speakeasy Wednesday night. “Watch out,
Buck, you've got my watch,”. yelled Red. Buddy Gard-
ner, his roommate, was standing nearby. ~He ‘said,
“You mean my watch, it’s the only one I've got.”

.,. Mrs. Francis Neal, Mr. Jackson's secretary, try-
ing to get hold of Mrs. Smith to check rooms with
her Tuesday.morning. All boys who are in the wrong
rooms had better move back to their original rooms
for a few days because if you are in the wrong one
these two will soon pfind it out. Mrs. Smith was out
in front .of Watts Saturday morning talking with
Walter Sprunt and Fred Smyre. I overheard them
talking about the W. & L. game as I passed.

... Prof. Goldiere having dinner at the Little Pep
Thursday. His wife was out of town and he was
trying the fare at one of Davidson's newest establish-
ments,

. as pretty a bunch of girls at the dance Satur-
day night as I have seen in a long time. While hop-
ping with Sally Couch she told me she wished she
had a nickel for every mile she'd danced.

... Parson Peabody carrying a sneaker up Sunday
night after supper. He told me he just had to do
it because he got too hungry when he tried to wait
for breakfast Monday morning.

TIP POFF.

ler’s party, have been called upon to present .,their
platform. Up to this time the Hitlerites have taken
a very aggressive and radical stand, trying to tear
down government, but not attempting to substitute a
better:system. They have worked against both the
present conservative government and the Communist
party. Now, with a fait possibility of gaining con-
trol of the Reichstag, the National Socfalists anust
adopt a platfofm, and if they succeed, defend it
against their opponents.’ The Nazis have thus given
their which include hatred—for—the(Freneh,
Jews, and rebellion against the Wersailles
Treaty, opposition to trade unions, and many other
The Nazis have many anti-capital-
istic doctrines which they will enforce if they gain
the German government. One of these
is the desire to drop the gold standard, placing in its
the productive power of the country itself.
Rather socialistic in principle is their desire to have
all business under the control of the state instead
of in private hands. The Nazis also want to cancel
the foreign debts and control the foreign trade. They
want to make Germany free from foreign suppres-
sion, but with the present hatred of the French for
them, they will probably bring more foreign inter-
vention. If they get into power and attempt to prac-
tice some of their ideas of hatred against the French
and Communists, Germany, in its present weak state,
could not defend itself against its enemies. It is very
doubtful if Hitler would be so foolish as to stir up
trouble, even if he does hate’ France and Poland. ~

views,

Poles,
petty objections.
control of

stead

The Yo Yo, the toy top which was seen all over
America about three years ago, has been introduced
tc Europe and has been accepted with the same en-
thusiasm which was shown for it here. The English

have fallen for the fascination of the discs of wood

running up and down the string and the popularity
of the Yo Yo has been travelling eastward, via Paris,
Berlin and Leningrad. L’Mlustration, the French news
Magaizne, compares this Yo Yo contagion to an epi-
demic of some disease.

The English consider the toy a valuable character
judge. Some have advanced the theory that the speed
with which one learns to master the toy gives an indi-
cation of the ability of the subject to master life’s
problems. At least, the lowly Yo Yo has created a
new demand for wood and twine, a thing which may
have a slight effect upon the unemployment situation.
