NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED RY THE CLASS OF 1915
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Tost
ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Fditors by 4:0 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.........---------------------- Editor-in-Chief
> M. CONWAY_...-----.----..-------- ------Business Manager

~

EDITORIAL STAFF

...-Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
.-Athletic Editor
..-Feature Editor
-Feature Fditor
..-Review Editor
Exchange Editor
...Associate Editor
.--Associate Editor
.....----Associate Editor

gercmcosozon

BUSINESS STAFF

_._-.------------Assistant Business Manager
_-Assistant Business Manager
__Assistant Business Manager
jcaeveuce Subscription Manager

proger>>

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Hy CWHITBHBAD ceccasscacaccccass: anstcscessnnoa President
J i. DAK Disicssuisccs $ Vice-President
Wiss Fam Ig ol SS saeaecaucasaussesccecuceceseocoretarycurcasurch,
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE
G. FE. BAILEY R. FE. LORRAINE
. E, BOYD Kk. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK
W. M. THOMPSON

R. W. T. THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

JANUARY 27, 1932

Art creates an atmosphere in which the propri-
eties and the virtues unconsciously grow.—Robert
G. Ingersoll,

PARAGRAPHICS
Dean Herring, of Duke University, made one of
the most inspiring talks that we have had the pleas-
ure of hearing last Sunday night at the afternoon
service. The “Y” is getting some powerful speakers
for these meetings, and anyone who is missing the
oppoftunity to hear them is certainly doing himself
an injustice.
—_D
With a new semester’s work facing them, David-
son students readily realize the necessity of some
good hard work.
D
It was reported that the halls of Converse were
crowded with Davidson men last week-end. Spar-
tanburg seems to hold some attraction for a great
many men in the student body.
D
We have been informed that there are 148 Smiths
attending Columbia University this year, as compared
with 91 Millers, 68 Cohens, 60 Browns, and 49 Jonses.
And we thought the Macks at Davidson were bad!
SS CRC soe LL
Some remarks (we hesitate to say complaints be-
cause we hardly feel that the matter is that vital
to anyone) were made regarding the non-appearance
of the Davidsonian for the week just following the
holidays. We beg to make excuses for the staff.
There was too much other work to be done, and
such a short time in which to do it.
eR yy es
OUR MODERN AMERICAN COLLEGE
This may seem a rather prosaic subject, but
there are certain characteristics and phases of the
modern American college or university which are
interesting to note. It is generally conceded that
their purpose is to give the youth of the nation
who are fortunate enough to reach college a broad
and wholesome outlook on life and to develop them
to the fullest extent. Whether all our institutions
of higher learning do this is a debatable question,
A graduate of Davidson who is now a profes-
sor in one of the leading Southern universities
once said that he was proud, to say he was a
“Davidson man” because a “Davidson man’ did
not mean just a certain type as the phrase “a
Princeton man” or a “Harvard man” did. Al-
though he admitted that those two Northern in-
stitutions had contributed a great deal and are
still contributing a great deal to the advancement
of education in this country, he said the students
in both of these institutions represented a type
in which there was very little if any variation.

This: is. not only true of these two institutions, |

but of many others‘also, and to some extent of
every college in the country. The freshman class
at any college is made up of a great many dif-
ferent kinds of students with varied interests and
temperaments, but the longer they remain the
more they are made to conform to certain kinds
of speech, modes of dress, and views on life.
They know very little of what goes on in the
outer world, and when graduation comes we have
not the class of four years ago, as they are much
more alike than they were in their freshman year.
Instead of being broadened they have had _ nar-
rower views of life forced on them in many in-
stances. They have gotten a veneer and polish,
but have their individual talents been developed
so that they can be leaders in the world?

This was a great tribute to be paid to us by
one of our former students, and let us hope that
Davidson will continue to develop men who will
be able to think clearly for themselves, who will
have the nerve and ability to stand out from the

crowd. — ’
E. O. Guerrant;

THE COACHING SITUATION

Davidson students and Wildcat supporters
throughout the South have had their interest fo-
cused for the last several weeks on the field of
available coaches, and on the activity of the Da-
vidson Athletic Council in selecting these coaches.
Since the announcement that “Tex” Tilson would
follow “Monk” to V. P. I., where he will serve
in the capacity of line coach, the task of the
Council has been doubled, in that it must now
select two coaches. There is of course a large
field from which to make the selections, but that
in itself only makes the choice harder,

The press has been active in its selection of
probable choices, and has selected and pushed
many men that have not been seriously consid-
ered by the selecting body. But that only serves
to make the public more interested in the final
choice. The newspapers are naturally thankful
for the opportunity to play up a story of this
kind, which has all the attributes of a good story.
They even went so far as to discover by some
“fair” means that Leonard Dick had turned down
the offer made him by the Council.

The student body, busy with holidays and with
examinations, has had little chance to really se-
riously consider the matter, and to discuss it at
length. It is certain that this group is mpst vitally
interested in the outcome of the thing. It matters
a great deal to the students just what action the
Council takes in selecting coaches.

There are certain attributes that a man must
have in order that he may satisfy the students
that he is worthy to be their coach, In the first
place, he must be able to coach and train athletic
teams, and must have in some way demonstrated
this ability. Next, he must be able to get along
with the student body. In a school like Davidson
harmony between the coaches and the sttdent body
is an important factor in the success of the ath-
letic teams. In the third place, the character of
the man must be unquestionable. Although they
desire a winning team, that is not the primary
thing in athletics at Davidson—they want the
game played, in the fullest sense of, that word.

Thus, if the Council is to secure a man who
wll accomplish something at Davidson, it must
get a man with’those characteristics which will
meet with the approval of the student body,

ay

Collegiate Ramblings
J, E. Lake

-

Washington and Lee

The National Press Convention will be held at. this
institution, named after two famous generals, next De-
cember, This convention will be held in the Robert EE
Lee Hotel and in the Lee Chapel.

Rey.* Walter Russell Bowie, a very noted Episcopal
preacher, is to be the baccalaureate speaker at the com-
mencement exercises in June,

The Ring-tum Phi quotes an editorial on “Student
Drinking” from Kentucky Kernel. In this editorial the
writer commends the present-day student on his attitude
toward the question of drinking. In the old days a boy
could not enjoy his college course without a good amount
of drinking and drinking’ to such an extent that he would
be intoxicated. This applied not only to a few boys but
to the majority of the’students in college. Today the sit-
uation is quite changed, there are only a few boys in this
class who are known as “‘sots’” while the majority of the
boys look down on the boys in this class and do not wish
to associate with them, especially when they are under
the influence of alcoholic liquors.

Allegheny College

Admiral Richard E. Byrd, famous trans-Atlantic and
polar flyer, spoke to the students of Allegheny last Sat-
urday in the Meadville High School Auditorium. He
spoke on his antarctic trip and illustrated it with pictures.
The program was thoroughly enjoyed by all that had
the pleasure of seeing and hearing it.

University of Georgia

Dr. George W. Truett, widely known minister and
pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Texas, will
be the principal speaker at the Eighth Annual Religious
Welfare Conference to be held at this Southern institu-
tion ori April 6 and 7. The predecessors of Dr. Truett
as speakers at this conference are very famous, James
I. Vance, a noted Presbyterian minister and author, for-
mer Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, Dr. S. Parkes

. Cadman, and others.

N. C. State

There has been much alarm over at this school on
account of the number of deaths from automobile acci-
dents within the grounds of the campus. There were three
deaths during the football games held over at State this
past gridiron season. To aid in the reduction of deaths
and the possible elimination of deaths from this source
on the college grounds, the student body has asked the
City of Raleigh to place a stop-light at the college en-
trance and to have police to regulate the crowd that
attends athletic contests at State. The Technician, to
emphasize the needs of stop-lights, has a cartoon show-
ing the Grim Reaper and three graves. The title of the
cartoon is “Three Dead Men and No Stop-light.”

Georgia Tech

Bernie Cummins, nationally and internationally famous
dance orchestra, will furnish the music for the mid-term
dances at Tech. There will be four dances: Pan-Hellenic,
Freshman hop,*Senior ball, and tea dance.

“| Of Ships & Shoes—
~ & Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...’

’

Duncan McBryde

IN MEMORIAM
The dear departed (examinations)
(Before the exams) :
“Coming events cast their shadows before.”
(During the exams) :
“These are the times that try men’s souls.”
(After the exams) +

“Bring me no more reports.”

PULLING A FAST ONE ON THE PROFESSOR:
Certain Professor: “It gives me great pleasure to mark
you &5 on your examination.”
Certain Student: “Why not make it 100 and give your-
self a real thrill?”

THE POWER BEHIND THE THRONE—
THE FACULTY

But the exams are dead (let the dead bury the
dead). We've heard enough of exams. They’re
enough of a joke in themselves. So if exams are
jokes, then let’s lay aside all jokes. (Humor reminds
me of history. It repeats itself.) If Adam came back
to earth, the only thing he’d recognize would be the
jokes. Have you heard the one about the Scotch-
man who sued a baseball company because he was
hurt while watching a ball gme? He fell out of a
tree. (That’s almost as bad as the Scotchmn who,
every time he shaved, went out on a date to powder

himself.)

We know of a Scotehman who refused to drink out
of a bottle because it had to be tipped.

LINES COMPOSED UPON OVERHEARING A
CONVERSATION

“Love me, love the lady | adore;
Give her but of your best regards, and 1
Im yours right off!

Love me, love the lady T admire;
Give her but half the admiration due, and you
Shall be my pal—but soft—!

Just tell her that you love her; whisper, too,
Youll always care; and I
Will knock your block off!”

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
“Nerts!”—L. T. Newland, Jr.

(NOTE: Mr. Newland was NOT paid for this state-
ment, but simply chooses Tom's Toasted (nerts), because
they are toasted for your throat’s protection.)

RUMPLE REPARTEE:

(Any Inmate of Rumple): “I have a suit for every
day in the week.”

(Any Other I. O. R.): “Yes?”

(Ak, CO}, IRD) g Manet sig ot?

(But the second boy got it back on the other one later
by remarking, “Well, the joke’s on you!”)

WHISPERS FROM WATTS:

Dream: “My girl took the engagement ring as a
joke.”

Train: “Yeah?”

Dream: “But before the evening was over, the joke
was on her.”

Train: “(Censored).

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

“They aay that one person’s humor is another's poi-
son. Well, we've decided to give you a chance to
“choose your poisoning” (as the drug store clerk
said to the lady as he laid the Rough-on-Rats on
the table). In the near future (tomorrow never comes,
so we don’t care what we predict), we shall present
for your detainment, among other things, such items
as “ROTC WIT THE LID LIFTED” (i.e., the mili-
tary salute); WHAT TO DO ABOUT THE DE.-
PRESSION (deploy the unemployed); and last (but
not leased), “WOMEN,” or “AFTER THE BAWL
WAS OVER.” Also added detractions. Be sure to

look out for them (they can’t look out for 'them-

selves).

We will close by «slinging song number—vwell, it’s
a bunch of couplets that appeared in the Clayton Bunk
(Nov. 8, 1931). It has no name, so we suggest one:

“FEMME FUN”
Taxi for to keep the date
Just set me back $3.98.

The show we saw was very nifty,
It ought to be—it cost $6.50.

DES ENTREFILETS

The United States has, of late, been the object of
much unjust criticism made by the Belgium press.
In fact the Belgium newspapers have developed a
veparations. Recently one Belgium paper declared:
virulent hatred for America and its “ignorance” on
“This ignorance is general, America being too busy
recording the doings of gangsters to study politics.
It is America’s attitude, inspired by its ignorance of
1ealities, that is compromising peace.” This rather
harsh and partially unjust criticism from a nation to
whom the United States rendered great service dur-
ing the late war seems unnecessary to say the least.
Ambassador Gibson acted immediately and without
instructions from Washington. From the Belgium
Foreign Minister he received an official disavowal
of the offensive articles by the government and a
public expression of regret: “Belgium cannot forget
the help which the United States afforded her during
the war and the admirable tactics Mr. Hoover showed

in the organization of relief.”

For his “splendid service” rendered in penalizing Chi-
cago gangsters, President Hoover promoted U. S. Dis-
trict Judge James Herbert Wilkerson to the Circuit
Court of Appeals.

A few days ago Wright Patman, a young Demo-
cratic Congressman from Texas, arose in the House
of Representatives and brought impeachment charges
against Secretary of Treasury Mellon. He charged
the Secretary of the Treasury with having violated
a statute of 1789 which provided: “No person ap-
pointed to the office of Secretary of the Treasury
shall directly or indirectly be concerned or interested
in carrying on the business of trade or commerce
or be the owner in whole or in part of any sea ves-
sel!

The argument presented by the prosecution was : Mr.
Mellon is a heavy stockholder in the Aluminum Company
of America, therefore he is in trade. The Gulf Oil Cor-
poration owns tankers and Mr, Mellon is a large stock-
holder in Gulf Oil, therefore he is an owner of sea vessels.
He has caused “millions” of dollars in taxes to be re-
funded to Aluminum Company and Gulf Oil, and also
“thousands” to himself.

The argument of the defense was as follows: Mr. Mel-
Jon owns only 15 per cent of Aluminum Company, there-
fore he controls no.corporation. Stock ownership dogg not
constitute “trade or commerce.” Every secretary since the
tinte of Hamilton has owned stock without violating this
Statute, Mellon does not personally own any sea-going
vessel, Although he did receive a tax refund he was as-
sessed an additional amount which made his et loss
$118,000.

With stich a defense to face, the Congressman from
Texas had very little chance of making the Secretary
nervous, much less impeach him.

After the meeting of the Supreme Court last week,
Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes returned to
his home and tendered his resignation to President
Hoover. The Associate Justice, who is ninety years
old, gave the following reason for his resignation:
“The condition of my health makes it a duty to break
off connections . . .” Mr. Holmes has been a mem-
ber of the Supreme Court for 29 years and his res-
ignation brought from President Hoover the follow-
ign statement: “No appreciation I could express
would even feebly represent the gratitude of the
American people for your whole life of wonderful
public service . . .” Senators, Congressmen, editors
and leaders in every field heaped praise upon this
infirm old gentleman.

Two thieves worked all night to blow open the door
of an unlocked safe in Lafayette, Ind., which contained
24 cents.

Axel Svanson, of Chicago, dined on pigeons which he
had caught while they were eating the peanuts he had
bought with a dime he begged from a stranger..

“No man has earned the right to intellectual am-
bition until he has learned to lay his course by a star
which he has never seen—to dig by the divining rod
for springs which he may never reach.”—Oliver Wen-
dell Holmes.

“The social and economic structure of Europe is
steadily moving toward an abyss, and if it continues it
will leave no alternative between repudiation of debts
and chaos . . .”—Benito Mussolini.

“The hope of the Republican party is in Calvin
Coolidge. The hope of the Democratic party is in-
John N. Garner. Failing these, the hope of the pub-
lic is in a third party.”—William Randolph Hearst.

She said the candy was divine,
It nicked me for $2.89.

Her bouquet made a hit with me,
It was so cheap—$5.93.

The night club was a bit of heaven,
The bill came to $12.87.

Oh, well, a soldier ee hollers,

Even when he blows his $$$$$$$
