. The weight of the lightest man in Davidson They should often consider their attitudes to-
“was not disclosed.

é

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

Davidson Students Like :
To Keep Their Appendix

Statistics Prove That Only 47 Out of
641 Students Have Undergone
Operation

HEALTH PREVAILS HERE

Physical Condition Improves Greatly
During the Four-Year Period

It is popularly believed nowadays that the
average young person has had his appendix re-
moved, and it is further thought that unless
this has been extracted, you are not in keeping
with the style of the day, and are therefore
unable to participate in a conversation where
“speaking of operations’ commonly holds the
spotlight of attention.

Number 12 Rumple Holds

Davidsonian Notice Attraction for Calhouns

Because of the many inquiries sent
in by alumni the editor of the David-
sonian wishes to announce that this is
the first issue of the Davidsonian pub-
lished since the holidays.

Due to the stress of examination pe-

riod, it was thought wise to forego the |
regular issue. |

the Same Room for 17 Years

BROTHERS HOLD RECORD

Amount Spent for Rent Alone Would
Have Built Small Cottage

When J. C. Calhoun graduates from David-
son College, his father, L. Calhoun, of Laurin-
burg, might well put in a claim for a financial
interest in Davidson; or at least, for an inter-
est in Rumple Dormitory. He might even claim
that he owns Room 12, in Rumple, for the pres-
ent Calhoun is the sixth brother to attend Da-
vidson, and every one of them has occupied the
same room in the same dormitory during his

Enthusiasm in Athletics
Shown by Student Body

Statistics Show That Majority of Stu-
dents Participate in Some Form
of Athletics

If this contention be true, members of the
Davidson College student body are not up to the
average, they are not stylish, and the majority |
are utterly at a loss to converse when, opera- |
tions and their attendant experiences are re-
counted, This is based upon the cold facts pre- |
pared jointly by the college physician and phys-
ical education department at Davidson, which
shows that only 47 of the 641 members of the
present student body had been under the knife |
for this operation. In other words, only 7.3
per cent of them are average, stylish, and good
conversationalists.

|

|

Removal of the appendix is such a frequent ’
cecurrence thet frequently it is not classified
as a major operation nowadays. Some contend
that it is, however, though the majority look
upon the extraction of adenoids and tonsils as
a mincr one. Local anaesthetic is more often
given for this operation, and as a re
tastic dreams are infrequent, and con
is hare.

ylfian-
we ion

But when it comes to this operation, the
majority of the Davidson students are in the
average class, for 355 of them have had _ their
tonsils and adenoids, removed, giving them a
percentage of 55.1. It has been suggested that
the absence of these two impediments. is largely
responsible for the vociferousness and noisy-
ness of organized cheering at Davidson, since
over half of the students have no nasal hindrance
to muffle the sounds, nor tonsils to impede
the progress of the lusty throaty yells.

Vaking the Davidson student body as a cri-
terion, it can also be concluded that college stu-
dents, as an entirety, are a pretty healthy lot.
The majority have already had the usual com-
men childhood ills before they come to David-
son. A look at the four major diseases of child

hood proves this. Mumps, measles, chicken pox,
and influenza constitute the “big four,” but
greatest of these is measles.

Of the 641 members of the Davidson student
hody, all but one hundred haye had measles,
434 have been afflicted with influenza, 404° of
them have had the mumps, and 397 have been
victims of chicken pox. It is not mannish to
have mumps in the young manhood days, and
when there was an epidemic of them among
the Davidson students a few years ago, the stu-

1
the

dents were derided for postponing this youthful
ailment.

A surprisingly small number of the Davidson
students have been seriously ill during theit
younger days, as the prepared statistics disclose.
Eighty-one of them have had scarlet fever, 83
malaria, 70 diphtheria, 10 smallpox; and the
closely akin affliction of pleurisy and rheuma-
tism have claimed only 17 afd 20 students, re-
spectively, Thirty-two boys said that they had
had typhoid fever, but Dr, John W. MacCon-
nell, college physician, believes that they con- |
fused it with typhoid vaccination, for that is too |
large a number for the student body of today.

Some Davidson alumni, who like to see hig,
husky athletes come to Davidson, have joking-
ly said that any applicant who weighs over 145
pounds has a difficult time gaining entrance. |
A glance a the student body average weight
shows that the average Davidson student does
not weigh but 144.3 pounds, which they might
interpret as proof of their contention, but which
must be remembered as an average.

Today there are but four students in David-
son who weigh over 200 pounds, and during |
the football this was reduced to two
men, for the other two lost weight when they

season

began training for the eleven. The heaviest man |
about 253 pounds. He was a football |
and lost approximately 20 pounds dur- |

weighs
player,
ing the season, and during this period the weight
of the student body is reduced almost a pound.

itry to be as- broad and full as they can, so in
jlife they will develop into well-rounded men. | pital, at Charleston, S. C.

four-year stay here.

Ever since 1916 there has been a Calhoun
in Room No. 12, and with the exception of
the scholastic session 1923-1924, it has been one
of the brothers. More often, it has been two
of them. During the 1923-1924 session, L. E.
Calhoun, a cousin of the sextette of brothers,

Although there are only 640 members of the| was an occupant of Room No. 12. In other
Davidson College student body, athletic offi- | words, for 17 consecutive years a Calhoun wit
cials at Davidson have estimated ‘that during | have been in this room.
the past year, over one thousand participated | For the six boys, Mr. Calhoun has paid into
in some organized sport. This number has been | the Davidson treasury for the use of this room
conservatively estimated by the physical educa-| alone; an amount barely short of $2,000, and
tion department, headed by Capt. Norton G,|as he looks back over the years since the first
Pritchett and assisted by Heath Whittle, and | one came here in 1916, he perhaps wishes that
does not take into consideration a vast number | he had built a small bungalow to take care of
of men who have daily taken exercise in un- ‘the Calhoun brothers and ‘their kin.
organized sports in the physical education pro- The five who have already graduated from

Davidson are Rev. L. C. Calhoun, of Lavras,

gram here. ;
The field covered yarsity and freshman in-| Pail, in 1920; Rev. M. P. Calhoun, of Charles-

A THOUSAND COMPETE

G

Three Most Popular Sports Are Foot-
ball, Baseball, and Basketball

tercollegiate competition, inter-fraternity con- ton, W. Va., in 1923; D. M. Calhoun, in 1927, |

tests, and intra-mural sports: of Elizabethtown; R. G. Calhoun, in 1929, of

The figure is also surprisingly large, when
it is considered that Davidson has only seven |
active sports ‘in which they compete intercol- |
legiately. These are football, baseball, basketball,
track, wrestling, golf, and tennis. Neither swim-
ming nor boxing are on the Davidson program,
and were these included, the number of par-

of Laurinburg. J. C. Calhoun is the last brother
of the family, and he will graduate in 1933.

ALUMNI PERSONAL NOTES

(Continued from page 4)
ticipants would be tremendously augmented | Rev. EL. Siler, D.D., °87, of Maxton, has
i : been appointed temporary stated clerk of the

An examinati f the report s , F fies feats : ; rene jl
nation of the report shows that 335 Synod of North Carolina, filling the unexpired

Davidson students are candidates for the
intercolegiate sports. Football claims the

est number, 90 men, for both the freshman |
and varsity: elevens; basketball is allotted 20, |
baseball 45, track 65, wrestling 35, golf 30, and
tennis 40,

larg- ident ‘of Presbyterian -Junior College.

Dr. Oren Moore, ‘08, of Charlotte, spoke be-
fore the Rotary Club of Chester, S. C., early

Inter-fraternity competition, however, leads |
in numbers, though there are only three sports| the Belmont Kiwanis Club recently.
used in this phase, football, baseball and basket- |
ball. It is estimated that 150 fraternity men |

! { Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point,
compete in the football games, an evenshundred | head of the High Point Hospital, president of

in basketball, and 75 in baseball yeompetition. | the North Carolina State Board of Health, and
When it comes to intra-mural actitt s—track7 North Carolina Senator, has accepted a place

and wrestling competition are eliminated, and/as visiting lecturer at Duke University. Dr. |

organized gymnastic endeavor and the compe- Burrus will conduct two or more clinics in the
tition for Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary | fall. and spring terms. This prominent. David-
athletic fraternity, and the individual improve-| son alumnus has also announced his candidacy
ment trophy, are included. The latter and foot- to succeed himself in the State Legislature.

ball have an equal number of participants, 75;
basketball 40, baseball 45, gymnastic work 60, |
Sigma Delta Psi 75, _ physical |
trophy, tennis, and golf, 20 each.

Charles R. Hunter, , has been mad as-
improvement | sistant president of Presbyterian Junior Col-
lege at Maxton, following the death of Mr.
Compiling figures another way, it is found) McLeod. Mr. Hunter has been connected with
that 315 Davidson students participate in foot-| this institution since it was founded, and dur-
ball, 210 in basketball and 145 in baseball—the | ing the summer has been studying at the Uni-
three major sports—for a total of 670, or over | versity of North Carolina. He has been teach-
half the competitors. No varsity participant or | ing history.
candidate can take part in inter-fraternity. or |
intra-mural sports, either, and while there is |
some duplications in the last two named organ-|named a member of the International Y. M.
ized activities, the number is unusually large for; C. A,

Committee, and he was also -recently
a student body the size of Davidson's.

| elected president of the Cabarrus Bank and

| Trust Company, of Concord. Mr. Cannon is
DR. H. J. HERRING lorenident of ‘the Cannon Mills’ Company, of
| Kannapolis.
(Continued from page 1) Fielding E. Wallace, ’11, of Kinston, who

tions. In college we should learn to be leaders became critically ill while on a business trip
in life. Such a small percentage of the popula-|to New York early in January, has recovered
tion has a college education that those who do, | and returned to his home, where he”is continu-
should it to lead and direct the others.
Those who have the desire to lead and be serv-
igeable to mankind are challenged never to let
the gleam of this desire get out’ of their -eye.
The trouble with our condition in our jn-
difference, not to large laws; but to small ones.
Violations of small laws~now will later turn
inté violations of large and important laws
when we get out into ife. College men should

use ing his law practice.
|

J. R. Covington, '29, has accepted a position
{with the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance

is |Company, and is located in Greensboro.

}completed his medical preparation at the Med-
jical College of South Carolina, and is doing
{his interne work on the staff of Ropes Hos-

This Family Has Been Represented in

sJarium Springs, and A. M. QGalhoun, in 1930, |

seven | termoof the late Rev. R. A. McLeod, '09, pres- |

| this month, and Dr. James W. Gibbon, '14, also |
of Charlotte, made the principal_address before |

Chas. A. Cannon, '15, of Concord, has been"

It is now Dr. Martin M. Teague, '26. He has:

Record Enrollment

The total yearly enrollment of Davidson this
year surpasses any enrollment in the history of
the college. The enrollment at the first ,of the
year was 641 and additional six men who came
in for the second semester makes a grand total
of 647. At present it is expected that around
ten or fifteen men will drop out of school for
various reasons, but as yet this number is not
certain. It is interesting to note this increased
enrollment in the time of the “depression.”

College Views

Colleges should provide their graduates with
sound advice on earning a living during the
critical period immediately following commence-
ment, in the opinion of Dean Archibald L.
Bouton of the New. York University College of
Arts and Sciences. ue

A liberal arts course, he said, “of itself rare-
ly qualifies a young man for earning his iS
ing.” ;

Dean Bouton said that a young man who has
trained in the liberal arts should supplement
his, education with professional and practical
|

| studies.

| “In too many cases,” he said, “this lack comes
‘in an unwelcome discovery to the liberal arts
|graduate and, for a time he finds himself non-
|plused by the difficulty of getting a start in
|the business of a livelihood. At this point the
college should provide wise, kindly and effi-
|cient counsel. . . . There can be no doubt that

we need a fuller recognition of the difficult
| problems that confront our students upon grad-

| uation.”

How the theft of a truck load of the most
|important costumes and make-up used by the
| Princeton Triangle Club protluced the most
hilarious performance of that group's “Spanish
| Blades” yet put on the stage was told by mem-
‘bers of the audience who came from the show
‘during the holidays holding their sides with
| mirth.

Seven hundred and fifty patrons had gath-
}ered at the Mount Hebron School in Upper
Mountclair for the matinee performance of the
|show when it was announced to them that the
club's properties had been hiejacked.. The audi-
ence refused to accept the suggestion that» they
'go away and return for the evening perform-
ance, when it was hoped to have some kind of
costumes and make-up ready for the cast.

So the show “went on,” and the result was
ten times funnier than it eG
| been, the audience declared. The. S “girls”
| appeared in trousers, the beards of the leading

| “ladies”, glistened under the spotlight.
| The audience showed uproarious preference
for a chorus that looked like a cheer leader's

squad exercising.

What the philosophy of wealth getting offers
faithful savers everyone knows. What the phil-
osophy of the spender offers him is not, appar-
ently, so well known.—Emily Newell Blair?

No one, it has been observed, is ever com-
pletely miserable while
caramel.—Ivor Brown,

sucking a chocolate

Senior Mascot Chosen

At the last meeting of the Senior Class, at
a smoker given just before the Christmas holi-
days, Sumner (Little Tex) Tilson was elected
mascot of the class. Sumner is the five-year-
old son of Coach and Mrs; S. D. Tilson. He
will fulfill his most important duties in the
spring when he will accompany J. H. McKin-
non, the president of the Senior. Class, in the»
commencement procession.

At the next meeting, which will be a banquet
held in Chambers at some time during the early
part of Febrtiary, it is hoped that definite ac-
tion will be taken as to the Senior gift. A com-
mittee is now busy on the matter of selection,
and at the banquet it will be put before the class.
Also to be discussed are class business. and
the appointment by election of certain officers,
including class marshal, valedictorian and salu-
tatorion.

t

“fmsterdam—(IP)—Rub your blue fingers,
you college students up in Idaho, and shiver a
bit when the sun goes under a cloud down at
Rollins, if you wish, but neither of you knows
what it is to be cold—speaking relatively.

Over here at Leyden University Dr. W.
Keesom has succeeded in cooling a space of ten
cubic centimeters to 0.75 of a degree K. If
you don’t think that’s cold, listen—k is the
abbreviation for’ the absolute zero, which is 491
degrees below zero on your frat house ther-
mometer. The cold that Dr. Keesom has cre-
ated, therefore, is just 489 degrees below zeto
as you boys and girls figure it.

Put that in your pipe and watch the barrel
crack !

Ada, Ohio—(1P)—Student of
dancing at Ohio Northern University have won
a partial victory in their campaign to over-
throw an ancient ban on dancing at the school.

exponents

Fraternity. brothers and sorority sisters, un-
der rules announced by university officials, now
may dance:to radio and phonograph music twice
a week in fraternity and sorority houses off
campus, and they may have three format dances
with orchestras in the coming year.

Students recently declared war on the old
ban, but were rebuffed by university officials.

However, when it was announced that a meet-
ing of the Board of Trustees would be held in
January, university officials decided to canvass
the 800 students and ascertain if they wanted
to dance. p

Inferiority complexes have been created in
American culture and in American art.—Rich-

ard J. Neutra.

Vs.

SCHOOL

Yong

LAST

4

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

FOR EXTRA TROUSERS

For Pan-Hellenic Dances

| We Offer
| TUXEDOS AND VEST FOR

CALL

If present statisites can be interpreted as
normal, the increasing weight of Davidson stu- |
dents averages seven pounds during his four |
years here. The biggest jump is between the |
freshman and sophomore years, probably ac- |
countable by the habits he forms, for he would |
gain four, pounds, and add three more for the
remaining three years he is at Davidson as a
student. €lass averages were freshmen, 140
pounds ; sophomore, 144; junior, 146,and senior,
147.°
-And while he is increasing in avoirduppis,
the Davidson student increases in height, but
this would probably be less than an inch in
stature. At least, six-ténths of an inch is the

ward laws that they may be freer and happier.
Let us be subject unto law that it may make
us free.

a
One man’s meat being, as wé know, another
man’s poison, it is foolish and presumptuous
for a man to prescribe for other men, to tell
other men what their way of life should be.—
Robert Hichens.

marginal difference between the average of
the freshman and senior classes here now,
though this is not absolutely accurate, unless
the statistics follow a man through his four
years at college.

John D. Baker, Jr., '25, is connected with |
| the business firm of Park & Walbridge, at
| No. 1 Broadway, New York City:

| Sam R. Coker, '30, who has ‘been a patient |
at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md., for |
some time, has returned to his home at Harts- |
ville, S.

C,

Harry B. Elliott, °18, who has been in Spar-
tanburg, S. C., with Jefferson Standard Life !
Insurance Company, has been transferred to
Charlotte by this concern,

’ Rev. M. L: Murray, ’24, has accepted a call
to the’ Presbyterian Church at Banner Elk.

$22.50 Only

| Stetson “D” Store

Clothes For the College Man

