2

_ The Pabvidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: oPyi eat the Post

legiate Year. Entered as second class
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication mustbe in the hands of the
onday.

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m.,

. j ANT ._----e ----ee 22 e--- Editor-in-Chief
FW AR NSORU N Business Manager
—————
EDITORIAL STAFF | a
cnveceaceccee----Managing Editor
» ANC RE “_...Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
a fetie Editor
Exchange Editor
..Feature Editor
.---Feature Editor
.Contributing Editor
woea-e----Review Editor
.-Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
--Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
_-Assistant Business Manager

Manager
Solicitor

Assistant Business

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1932

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

During the latter part of last week twelye_,
Davidson men went to’ appointed places in
North Carolina. South Carolina, West Vir-
ginia, Virginia, and Georgia to appear. before
the Rhodes Scholarship State Committees oi

. Seleétion, and Gut of this number ‘three men
| were designated as one of the two candidates
in_their respeetive states. + These men were
Paul F. Brown of Georgia, Dunéan D. Mc-
Prevde of North-Carolina, and William F. Mul-
liss of West Virginia. The candidates trom
the six Southeastern States assembled in. At-
lanta this last Monday and two of our candi-
dates were among the twelve, four ot which
were chosen-ta attend Oxford University. The
other. person was in a different district and
had to appear before a different committee.
st the time of the writing of this article we
dv not know the final resuit o. the selection,
but whatever the outcome we jeel that Da-
vidson College and the Class oi ’33 should be
proud of these vhree‘men. To be cttosen_as
one of the two candidates ma state is a dis
tinct honor to the man as well as to this in-
stitution. . ° - .
—— #wo vears ago Dean Rusk of the Class of
31 was selected-as a Rhodes Scholar, anc ‘s |

1 &

citer ary . .
TITTTS “Solicitor at,Oxford University at the present time. We
-Sglicitor_ sincerely hope that all.oi these men or some

tetary-Treasurer

_oi_them—wlk have—been ehosen—by-the time --
this article goes to press, but-ift nor-we ‘know ~
we have ‘the sentiment of the whole student .-
‘body as well as The Davidsomian.staf incon...
gratu ating them.

We would also like to lake the opportunity
| at this time to urge any underclassmen who

“L. MeCLINTOCK
My NOR RMTANY ._L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E F.- Me PHAIL
Bo CBARSES BARNES Wal. NORTHEN ne
7 J E BOYD. E. L. POWELL
’ H. COVINGTON - S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON P.M. ROGERS
N : —-_ BLL. ROSE
. Be FICKLI _ : a ‘
HELLINGBR NW LGA
UAER NRY “ KD WEEKS
_ HUNTER _R.
= * HO RRAINE wor THOMPSON
T F Woop . W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS | PRATT-THOMAS

DECEMBER 14. 1932

Toa know how is make the nosté! u little, is
lo possess the phildsaphic stone.—-1hbi Frncé
Dininet. ve

— op
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

As this is the last issue of “The. Davidsonian” be-
fore ‘the holidays, we want to take this opportunity’
to wish the Davidson faculty, student body, and
friends a happy Christmas and-a joyous and prosper-

—@Siis New Year.

———— D ——__—_

. 6 a 7F ~~ ~~
Davidson is proud of her three sons who are to
represent her and their respective sections of the

country “as acceptable applicants for the Rhodes

Scholarship.—

—_——_p

The Davidson student body is much elated over |

the prospect of admission to the Southern Confer-

“ence within the next few months. ,, We have long—!-

desired this end and feel that the goal is in sight.

= __ pp

“The general consensus of opinion over the split of
the Southern Conference is that Jt is a good thing.

The Conference has Jong been too large and now™

that it has divided, each Conference should benefit
by the change.

.
fs

The basketball season swings under way this week.
Prospects. are good, and with the undividéd “support
of the Davidson student body, the team should make
a good showing against all opponents.

———_ p-—_____

It looks now as if the Trojans of Southern Cali-
fornia will gallop their way over the Pitt, Panthers
for a second consecutive national championship in
the annual Rose Bowl game on New Year's Day at
Pasadena. :

————_ D-___—_——_

As Christmas approaches, there will be many
chances for Davidson students to be of service to
the ‘poor in their home towns.
years they need our help most.

can, =,
——_—__ Pp» —______

There are many*who are doubtless discouraged
over affairs in general and perhaps wonder what we
have to be happy about this Christmas. We wish to
quote Abbi Ernest Dimnet, “Can we give our chil-
dren a rarer present than the art of looking for hap-
Of

In this year of all
Let us do what we

piness inside us, instead of chasing mirages?”

are at all interested to obtain ail the. informa-
tion possible about this scholarship. and_to
apply in the Junior*or Senior year, There is_.
, -all-to-gain. and nothing to losé.

. THE FOOTBALL SEASON =|

Four games won, four games Idi. and one
game tied is how the tinal results Q’this past
toathall season will be tabulated, On the sur-
face this record may not seem ‘very impres-
sive, A little. closer inspection of the tacts,
however, will reveal that unden the ciretm-
stances we enjoyed a very good season.

In the frst place we had_two new men who
| coached a different style of football from that

which was taught by the two previous -

“coaches. A new system had to be tnstalled..

in its ‘entirety here, and this -certainly -is no

-casy Matter, simcee the Seniors who had plaved

i

“ww football two years on thee varsity and, who

necessarily wouid have to bear most of-the—-
_bruni of the game, had td change their style
completely. ft was much easier tor the Soph-

— —_LSAW ;

Pod
A FISH STORY

Fish

Wish

Own

Bait’
Wait

Bite
Flight

Roam
Home
. A ied
Buy
Lie

Theresa Crowd.

Prof. Williams, Tae kcnoriny on business
matters, afight trom a swélegant Chrysler Tuesday
and.enter the p. o. The’man at the window compli-
mented him on his new car. The prof. assured, “It
isn't mine, and I'm sorry to say it isn’t going to be.”
If the agent waiting outside was like most_auto sales-

men [ know I bet he tried to tell him differently.
4

by the paper that a prof, who started about |

twenty years ago with only fifty-five cents is now
wérth $100,000 Yes, he accumulated his wealth by
irugaitty. g¢ ‘° ‘ abits,.strict attention to classes, and
then ims ecmelr died and left him $999,999,

doin's! ‘

_.. Mrs. Robson, of the infirmary, who_is_such_an

Dandy ~

WORLD SPECTATOR — 7

4

The Pope is now working,on a reorganization of
the Vatican City and cutting down on the depart._
ments of government. This will simplify the opera-
tion of the Vatican municipality and will probably
lower the cost of operation. Instead of seven depart-

ments: Administration, Technical Services, Public
* Works, Communications, Sanitary Services, and Mu.

seums and Public Security, there will be only three.
ese new departments will be Art, Administration,

Ph.
and, Technical, Service.

’ The Pope's nephew will be placed ‘in charge of the
At present he is head
of the Technical department, and directs the electric
and hydraulic system of Vatican City. He will not
only have a reorganized general government, but will

- operation of the government.

also have the smaller divisions of the city organiza-
tions changed.

\Walter Duranty, writer for the New York Times,
“has an interesting observation to make upon the..
Russian :Five Year Plan. Of course it is partially

- true that the Soviet has great power over the Rus-
sian peasants because of the ability of the secret
police and the army to break up any plan against

-|.. the Sexiet— But this is not the whole reason--for -the—

I

|

hard. work the peasants..do,.with very little reward,
Duranty claims that the Russians are stirred up to a
high feeling of patriotism by the leaders. The rulers
oi the Soviet. by exciting the:Seople, create a teeling
not unlixe that which existed in most countries dur-
ing the war.. The people are prepared to endure
hardship, inconvenience, heavy work, and prixation,
_ifi_by doing so they may help. the couwatry-to—win:

expert at ailments, pass down dorm row Tuesday -

afternoon irom the: library on fier way to Mrs.
Smith's. You know Mrs. Smith hurt her hand in a
iall recently, but we are glad to announce that she

———ibetternow-and-things are running smoothly again.”

Right’ now Mrs. Robson is enfoying that interesting
book. “Martha Berry.” .

our president of the studens body. Jerome
Clark, open the Nmas present sent him by some play -
tals lately. In case you haven't heard, it contained
two hymnals. Now who's been taking out the hymn-

als? Jerome enjoyed the joke as much as anybody

else: Buck Xirldand, Doe Mathis. Charlie Harris,”
Sam WUaniels, and Charlie Pearee enioyed teasing
tum about it, too, downtown jater in the day, This

_is just an example oi one of the things that tries the

Patience of our president. Another is his roomie,
Bruce Peabody. wha inst aderes to put his tinger in
his mouth and then stick it in Clarse’s ear. “Exquisite
please. What a punny man!

a,

or rather peeped-in the Phi Beta initiation

a+

‘;omores to adapt themselves to this type of
' 1ootball than. iti was for the others. The di!-
fieulties of changing schools can be proven
“ny the record made by Mr. Wallace Wade of
Duke. Although -he has now been there two
sea’sons. he has never turned out a team equal
to séveral teams which he had previonsiy
~coached at the University ‘of Alabama.
___\When we consider this along with the fact
' that we faced harder opposition this year than
| usual, we must arrive at the conclusion that
our.coaches and team performed very credit- |
ably this fall. Nearly every year we have
jaced some smaller schools, but we met nine
teams this scason which were supposed to

Collier, night.” The. banquet hall was beautifully dec-
orated with a Nutus tree in the center of the table.
Mrs, Camming was the only woman present. So far
as l know this lady of scholarly attainments is the
only woman in our village belonging to this distin-
guished society. (Ax me anoiben

the Glee Club arrive from their tour of the
eastern part of the slate Wednesday night. They
report a. gorgeous time and I am hearing from more
than one souree, that the program presented this

year is better than any of the past. It’s the talk of
uie town?

that happy days are here again. The depresh

play as good’or a better brand of football pmewee—accomting tw the focal cinema sign advertis-

1

| than Davadson, -Such a schedule undoubtedly

' had its effect on the Wildeat eleven. it was
a constant strain from the opening-game with _
Duke to the Thanksgiving game with Wake
Forest. Our vietory bver Wake Forest was—
the high paint of the year. tt was not that
we considered them our arch rivals, but the
fact that we had not beaten them sirice_1920.
Even, when we had the State Championship
10.1926, we kad to be content with a tie. This
task. however,. was aecomplished by our

* coaches in their frst vear at Davidson. ‘Th:s

* was a notewrothy feat, and much credit should
be given to them along with credit to the

team for. the attainment of this long sought

for goal. ; i
It is true we lost four games, but we deo

not believe we are being prejudiced when we

say that with even breaks we would have won

at least one or two-more-games. However, |

this is a matter of history, and we believe that |

next seasén will prove. ‘even more successful

than this one, and that_every confidenee should |

he placed in-our coaching staff.
SOPHOMORE WEEK-END | -| ;
This next week-end, December 16-17, there
will be an_entertainment under the auspices

course the children’s part of this statement would} “Ot the Sophomore Class. Each year the three

not apply to Davidson ‘students, but leaving this
word out, the statement and especially the spirit of
the statement is certainly applicable to all, if we but
follow it. :

In forming next year’s football schedule, we hope

that the proger authorities will arrange at least one —

intersectional game. Prospects are good for next
year’s eleven, and we feel that the Wildcats would
make a splendid showing against some larger team
in another section_of the country.— it is certainly
broadening for the college, for the team, and for the

.. players to meet one of the larger teams occasionally,
whether we win Gr lose. le \

.

upper classes regularly put on some sort of |
an entertainment, usually in the form of a
dance, but the second year class has never—
put on-anything very elaborate in the past.. |
This year, however, the members of the Class |
| of 735 have laid plans to transform this which |
~has always been one of thé minor social affairs |
of the year into something which will be much
more elaborate than usual.
Jelly Leftwich, who has one of the best
orchestras in the state, has been secured, and !
they have made plans to have two dances, one
Friday and one Saturday. Besides this fea-
ture there will be the added attraction -of a-
mock cabaret on Saturday afternoon in the |

~ Toe

ing “Prosperity.” Personally it max no difference to
us becauge we hadn't noticed any difference.
Aa
... Duke Glasgow ask his brothe:, “Can you lend
we $3500 for a month, old boy#: “What the deuce
does a month old boy want with $5.00?" Bob retorted,
avoiding the catastrophe. Haw]

and walked with Dr S. T. McCloy, a former
Davidson student, the other day. Tle was one of the
alumni, who came up to be awarded his Phi Beta
key. IL later tind out that he was a Rhodes Scholar,
ioo, During the course of the conversation he asked
me what vrme chapel vegan. I told him at @9 :30

/o'clock. “My.” he exelaimed, “we used to go to

chapel at.2.:30.o'cioek.. I'm afraid some folks T know
would never get there if that were true now,

. the best definition of a familiar word given
the other day. It's a scream so Fil pass it on to you.
“A boarding house strawberry shortcake is a circular

“solid, every point in whose peremeter is equidistant

trom the. strawberry.” Hehchehl
i
Dele Arbuckle, who is an expert stenog, and
George Sherrod. heap big (rack Manager, having a
friendty chat while parked downtown of a, Thursday.
Dele has several students in her typing class and
they confide that they always look forward to their
lessons.* By the by. while speakiag of George, he,
Fred Silane, and Anstey Watson. are all taking flying
lessons in Charlotte now. lt wasn't told to me, I only.
heard that they and Sonny Freeman, Bill Cannon
EEE
Davidson gymnasium from our till six o'clock.
Members} of the Sophomore Class. will act
‘as_dancers and according to -the members of
the class who are in charge of the affair] at-
tendance at any and all of the different fea-
tures will be well worth the time and money
of any of tlhe members of the student body.
-Aecording to the custom set by other classes
all the members of the student body! are in-
vited, and it is not restricted to members of
the Sophomore Class in any manner.

'

{

i
|
i
tT

So in Russia today. the peasants are enduring the .
terrible housing conditions. the shortage 01 ‘cod, and
all other inconveniences in order to allow the Soviet
to obtain money for machinery. Duranty notes that.
at the present time the people have grown tired of
their hardship, and predicts that Russia will soon have
(o start importing something besides machinery, and
. will be toreed to supply consumers with foreign
products. He states, however, thai this change will
probably be onty temporary, and thai soon the Seviet
will start in again, just as it did before.

rs t

Ignacio Neavin, an inventor of Spain, has been
working along ‘a new idea in the field of aviation.
and has made a model. airplane which is of rather
radical ‘construation... Fhe model has no wingé or
propeller, but has a pair of wheels, resembling mill
wheels, projecting from. the side of the body. The
craft is able'to go either forward or backward, and
is able to rise or descend vertically. 1f/Neavin's ‘model
is perfected, the present type of airplane may become
obsolete. After all, one of the chief drawbacks to
the present design of planes is their inability to take _
off in a very limited place and their inability to hover
ever a spot without-motion in any direction.

ya

Lo
A ; ~
Collegiate Ramblings |
v4 J. E, LAKE~ — an we

J. E. LAKE
University of South Carolina
The Gamecock has as ome of iis heads. Auburn
Plainsmen Hold Gamecoeks to Tie Score. This is
probably just as true as our heatl of Jas: year that
read ™ Wildeats Held to 0-0 Tie by Dike.

Emory

The ‘iad oi having chair-boards has come *o Emory
and The Emory Wheel says that the :chair-doards
are all-over: the Davidson campus, a dit to the con-
trary but still there are'a dew nere, sThe Wheel says:
“We see the innovation of chair-boards on ¢he cam-
pus, which in itseii is a great addition to the already
ample facilities for study. Reports are that at Da-~
vidson and the University of Virginia everyone has

»~Gne and couldn't do without it, so I guess they il be

|

1

.

just as widespread as the Yo:Yo in no time at all.”
Gtier Martin must have let that iaet out. By the
way, the Emory boys think that Grier is quite a
basketba'l star. They say that he is the best player
that Exnery has fad for. a Zood many years.

po — Winthrop

About one fourth of the population of the United
States is now enrofled in schools. There are 31,000,-
000 people in schools irom kindergarten to university
age.

oo

and Courtney MacConnell, who own planes, are “fly-
ing high” these days.‘ So it isn't soph!

. and overheard a conversation between~two
playboys about the campus who were gabbing about
» Us and Gur colymn. The more handsome of the pair.
said, “L don't. see how in the worid Tip Poff gets

around so much: why he knows. everything.” You

would too. it you made it your business. And what's
more, dut Fd better not tell that. .

-. that the old-fashioned girl jwho used to be told

, there was a bear in the blackberry patch now has a
grown daughter who ‘doesn't_believe_that_ice creain..
cones make freckles. This was demonstrated to the
satisfaction of all present at the episode taking place
at‘a local soda fount recently. But the funriiest thing
__l've heard this week is the one, about the farmer's
son who was taking a correspondenée course and
came home like he had been through a tornado. His
daddy asked what was the matter and he explained

j- he had just received a letter from the sophs telling

him to/haze himself. And I stitl maintain that the

way for a.man to get ahead and to stay ahead is to
use his head.

|

o 1

—TIP POFF.
