THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

The Bavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

.

N RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
Telia: Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

icles f blication must be in the hands of the
ee MAnagite Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
FAB RRR wl Wee
—OOOOOOOOOOOO

EDITORIAL STAFF.

Managing Editor
x Y SCiteNCK pa Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
ACK’ WILLIAMS Managing Edito
DI CASALI Athletic Editor
E, LAKE...-.--.-- Exch itor
> W. WHITE. Feature Editor
io Six, GAMBUE set abois si sl sutscsak ssa caebiccsesers Feature Editor
’ T, GOODYKOONTZ.....-.-.-.-2--_-Contributing Editor
¥, Th. ORANGOCK. Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE A Beiter
R. L. McCALLIE- A t waters
C. F. MYERS itor
B, B. SUGG A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assi t B i Manag
A. H. MANSON. A Man
ALVIN BAYER, JR olicitor
H. B. DANIEL.
& Yt GREENS
Win Fn Peron. olicitor
i A. C. WADSWORTH.--
. E. WHITE
REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
: % GAMBLE Wades Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG Secretary-Treasurer
. W. ALDERMAN . L. McCLINTOCK
x WAL DERMAN iy L. McILWINEN
G, E. BAILY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWE C. E. NORVELL
I E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTO
S. K. EATON P. M: ROGERS
HF B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
. L. GULLE T. H. S N
ACK_HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K, D. EEKS
. A. HUNT W. R. WARD
k E. LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD i W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 30, 1932

Let us therefore follow after the things that
make for peace, and things wherewith one may
edify another—Romans xiv 19.

Sy aay
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We wish to offer our heartiest congratulations to
the teams and coaches for their splendid victory over
Wake Forest.

eee ) cence

The running and all-round playing of Charlie Pearce
was unusually good. His 84-yard gallop for an unoffi-
cial touchdown and his 54-yard run for a touchdown
after intercepting a Wake Forest pass constituted two
of the most brilliant runs we have ever seen a Da-
vidson player make. They will be classed in the minds
of all along with Thad Brock’s famous 106-yard
scoreless run against Duke in 1929. They are runs
that will live in the history, memory and spirit of the
Davidson student body. e

: —_—_D

It was true justice for Pearce to be able to score
a touchdown after his first had been called back by
officials.

D «

We are inclined to class Charles Pearce, not only.

for his brilliant work against Wake Forest, but his

The jinx did its best to defeat Davidson or cause
another scoreless tie, but a fighting, clawing Wildcat
eleven seeking to wreak the wrought-up vengeance
of eleven years was not to be denied.

——__D—__.

Wak Forest played a good game of football on
which they should be commended, but it was David-
son’s day.

—D.

Anyone who felt the Davidson spirit was not what
it used to be, certainly changed their minds after the
Wake Forest game. The Wildcat spirit went wild and
we were certainly glad to see it.

D———___

According to press reports from V. P. I. Davidson, |

Furman, Loyola, and Richmond were being consid-
ered as applicants for membership in the Southern
Conference. We think that Davidson has a good
chance and should she receive the bid, she ought to
accept. It would mean a higher standing in athletics,
not only in the South, but in the country at large.

Another advantage of such a move is that it would

attract- more foutbwl ment

a
Davidson is proud of the showing her football play-
ers made on the All-State teams. Pearce and Rives
were on the Charlotte Observer's All-State team. In
fact, Pearce was mentioned on almost every state
selection. Wagner and Rives were each on one se-
lection. Mackorell and Willson also received recog-
nition. : :

think the choice lies between Colgate and Auburn
since Pitt’s record has been somewhat marred by two
ties. Auburn has faced more opposition as a rule
and naturally we are hoping the bid will come to a
Seuthern Conference team.

“CITIUS, FORTIUS, ALTIUS”

The motto of the 10th Olympiad means
“Swifter, stronger, higher.” In ancient times
the Greeks held the Games only for the Greeks
and now the whole human race is included.
The world is our field today.

I heard Dr. Rufus B. von KleinSmid, presi-
dent of the University of Southern California,
speak this summer at a newspaper conference
in which he discussed the Olympic Games and
internationalism. Dr. von KleinSmid said that
no nation nor people ever again will be able
or desire to live an isolated existence, and that
co-operation and universal good will are to be
the watch words and essence of humanity’s
future progress.

“When 2,000 athletes, representing every
sort of nation, carry on their gruelling contests
in sportsmanship and amity and plan to meet
next time in Berlin four years hence,” in the
opinion of the’ Baltimore Sun, “it seems rea-
sonable to conclude that this is. the way the
human race could get along with itself all the
time, if its energies and enthusiasms were en-
listed by something as compelling as a dash
down the cinder track or a pitch of the jave-
lin.”

The New York Times said, “Lovers of both
peace and prowess found a common meeting-
place and there was international amity, yet
competition among te nations. There was ri-
valry but it was the rivalry of peace. It pro-
vided a less individual test of the strength of
nations than those measured by fleets, and
armies, area, population, or foreign trade.”

“The rules of the athletic field,” remarked
the Pasadena Star-News, “are sound and
wholesome for everyday: life—in business and
all human relations. Honesty, honor, clean
living, respect for thé rights and immunities
of others, good sportsmanship, in victory or
in defeat; good fellowship, thoughtftt-consid-
eration of others—in a word, the observance
of the Golden Rule.”

Undoubtedly, the best part of the Games was
the fine-spirit which dominated them, foster-
ing international good will and the spread of
good sportsmanship as the result.of friendly
international competition.

—JACK WILLIAMS, JR.

TIMES HAVE CHANGED

The changing economic conditions have
wrought a great change in almost everybody
today and it has not failed to leave its impress
on the modern college student. The boy today
who comes to college to “have a good time”
doesn’t: belong in college and it would save
wasting his time and that of the college if he
would go somewhere else.

We have been too prosperous in times past

to appreciate our good fortune and give things
their proper rating,in the scale of values. And
we are now paying for placing dishonest offi-
cials in places of authority who ‘did not dis-
charge their duties faithfully and honestly.
“ It is agreed that the ‘college student today
is more serious than he was before the depres-
sion. A noted educator recently pointed out
that there is a need for a more vigorous ideal-
ism in college affairs as a forerunner of an
improved attitude toward public affairs. If
a student does not have the courage to stand
up against questionable practices in fraternity
and his student activities, how can he be ex-
pected to develop courage against corruption
in politics and affairs of the government?

_...._[t_used to be that the campus sheik*drove
a sporty roadster, wore a raccoon coat and

was inclined more to correct dress than to the
careful studying. of his lessons. But all that
is a thing of the past.

-

Collegiate Ramblings
A. M. MANSON.

Florida

The Florida Alligator tells us that for the week-
end of the Tech game twenty dances were scheduled.

Day must have been turned into night in the ’Gators’
lair.

Tulane
Quoting from the Hullabaloo, Dr. Harley M. Gould,
Professor of Biology at Newcomb, we read: “The
Southern girls are thinner than the Northern girls,
weighing on the average six pounds less for their
relative height. Their chests are smaller and flatter

~and their “hands a little narrower in proportion to

their lengths. However; an. observer cannot tell a
Southern girl from a Northern one by these slight
differences.” Oh, Yeah?

Duke
Doris Kenyon, screen star, appeared at Duke last
Monday night. Miss Kenyofi’s reportoire demands
ten languagés, including Japanese. Thus she was
able to make herself well understood at Duke.

EI Azhar University
Entrance requirements at El! Azhar University, in
Cairo, Egypt, call for a verbatum knowledge of the
Koran, the Mohammedan Bible. What would a Da-
vidson student do if he had such a requirement?

Princéton
News arrives from the Daily Princetonian that in
a questionnaire sent to this year’s Freshman class,
nearly all of them ask only “brains, money, and

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

France is put in a peculiar position as the time
approaches for the next installment on war debts
to be paid. France has up to this time regulated the
payment of her debts to the United Stateas upon
the amount that has been paid into the French gov-
ernment by her debtors. This time there have been
no receipts, so Fr. , through the Chamber of Depu-
-ties,-is-opposed—to- payment.__However, _France_is_in.
staple financial condition and could easily remit the
debt- payment, which is less than that which Eng-
land is supposed to pay. England will not be re-
quired to pay all her dues on D ber 15 b
of her present low financial condition, and France
desires to be in the same status with England, even
though their economic conditions are exactly oppo-
site. Premier Herriot is opposed to the general opin-
ion of the Chamber of Deputies, because, realizing
the position of France and her ability to pay, he
wants France to meet her debts honestly and fairly.
What the result of this rift between Premier and
Parliament will be is not known, for if Herriot fails
to have his measure passed, he automatically loses
the premiership.

~

The Dead Sea has at last proved itself of value
because of the quantities of chemicals which have
been taken from that body of water recently. Start-
ing in 1911, experimentation with the chemical con-
tent of the Dead Sea has been under way with the
result that only a few days ago the first shipment
of fertilizer from the Dead Sea arrived in New York.
Besides’ valuable’ fertilizer materials in the form of
potassium chloride, the Sea yields bromine, magne-
sium, chloride, and sodium chloride. The method of
obtaining these valuable products is by conducting
the water of the Dead Sea into shallow evaporating
pans, from which the tropical sun quickly drives the
water, leaving the residue which is separated into its
different parts.

At a luncheon in Schenectady recently three out-
standing scientists were honored by the great scien-
tific men of that center of electrical research and
manufacture. These men were: Dr. Willis_R. Whit-
ney, retiring director of the General Electric Re-
search Laboratory; Dr. William R. Coolidge, his suc-
cessor, and Dr. Irving Langmuir, an associate who.
has just received the 1932 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.

The speaker of the meeting was the president of
Union College, who spoke in behalf of the citizens
of Schenectady in praise of their great scientists.
All three of these men have made a name for them-
selves in the pages of scientific history and all have
a great many rewards and medals to their credit.
Dr. Langmuir, who has just received the Nobel Prize,
was a protegy. -At the age of three years he had
read the Bible from cover to cover, and at the age of
six he had discovered a new chemical element. In
spite of this abnormal youth, he is a well-rounded
man, engaging in ski jumping and mountain climb-
ing when he is not busy ad ing the of
science.

In a recent confidential’ survey of the co-eds by
the New York University Daily News, it was found
that only 40 per cent of the young ladies came to
that college for an education. Another 40 per cent
go to N. Y. U. “because they Rave nothing else to
do.” Fifteen per cent are enrolled in order to please
their parents, while five per cent are students at the
University to “have a good time.” Contrary to pop-
ular belief, none described her reason for enrolling
as a desire to find a husband. There is no doubt
that the present economic conditions have decreased
the group of students who attend “because there is
nothing better to do.” A similar survey of Davidson
students would probably bring forth some’ very “in-
teresting figures.

A great aid to electrical contractors is a man-hour
estimate manual recently completed by Theodore
Heinzerling of New York after eleven years of ob-
serving the time required for electrical installations
in 15,000 buildings. This manual givs three estimates
of the time required for wiring any form of electrical
connection. There are conservative, competitive, and
compensative estimates giving the time under adverse
conditions, the time under good conditions, and the
average time. All forms of connections were ob-
served and recorded in order to determine the mean
time. This manual will be very valuable to all con-

, tractors when they prepare to give their estimates

= ——

beauty” in its girls. (The youngsters are easily
pleased.) Further statistics show that a few more
particular rats desire blond hair, and a féw die-hards
wanted -red-haired ladies. The Phi Beta Kappa key
was chosen in preference to the varsity/“P.” And in
regards to the evils of the day, 213 drink; 253 do not;
295 smoke; 193 do not; 180 neither drink nor smoke.
———_. t
Wake Forest
From the Old Gold and Black, our eye falls on the
following tine: “Wake routs the Wildcats- 25 to 6 in
1928.” We would like to know the word to define
the score placed in Davidson’s favor in 1917. I recall
the figures, 72 to 7. Wake up, boys!
on the cost of, and time required for the installation
of electrical connections.

A Scott centenary exhibit of some of the original
manuscripts of Sir Walter Scott was recently on dis-
play in the library at Columbia University. One of
the manuscripts, that of “Guy Mannering,” was stolen
from the exhibit and has not yet been recovered. For
a while the theft was kept a secret in the hope that

. one good old Presbyterian greet another at
the game. Thursday with, “Well, are we predestined
to win today?” Incidentally our president’s energetic
and efficient secretary, Mrs. Steele, seemed to enjoy
this immensely. Now isn’t that nice.

... Alec McGehee explaining to a Frosh the rea-
son_he_had_so_many—cuts—was—because—he—was—out
when operated on for appendicitis. “But what was
the matter with you?” questioned the Frosh. Which
reminds us of the Davidson Senior who recently
asked the father of a certain Statesville maiden for
her hand. The father savagely replied, “Do you think
two can live as cheaply as one?” The embarrassed
Senior stammered, “I—I hardly think you will notice
the difference.” Realleh?

... David Blue go Clark Gable before my very eyes
Friday afternoon. He was talking to a couple of
pretty girls parked on Main Street and before I
knew it he was in the car and away. What-a-Man!

. and heard Tubby Hand say, “Everybody has a
secret sorrow. Even the fattest of us-has a skeleton
in his midst!” However, Skit McConnell, sagacious
clerk at White’s, looked like he had never heard of
a skeleton last Wednesday. He was behind the soda
fount dancing to the radio music while getting up a
fancy order for a cash customer, Isn’t that a Pip!

; : + Ben Barnes ask Duke Glasgow if he had no-
ticed an attractive woman who passed them on the
street of a day last week. “The one,” responded
Duke, “with the gray hat, black coat, brown shoes,
and fox fur?”

“Yes.”

“Not particularly.”

. and read the telegram wired by our former
coach, Monk Younger, to Capt. Buddy Gardner. It
read, “Congratulations to team, coaches and Doctor
Charlie on fine victory.” Signed Monk Younger, If
you have been keeping up with him and Tex Tilson
you will know they haven't done so bad at V. 12 Ih)
either. Three huzzas for them!

.. , Jack Goodykoontz booing Bob-Glasgow while
he was dressing the window at Ivey’s Davidson Shop
last Wednesday afternoon. I must: give Bob credit
for doing a good job of it, because it was an attractive
window after he had given it a touch here and there.
Some may think I am giving Ivey’s more than its
share of publicity this week. Wednesday, Cal put a
sign in-the window. It read, “Store Closed Thanks-
givining.” Somebody must have ‘said something to
him while he was printing it. At first I thought he
did it to attract attention, but he later changed it.
But not before I had noted the sitcheesayshun.

...a bulletin board being put up at the local P. O.
There have been lots of improvements down there
lately.. I think the big fight in Davidson over the
appointment of the postmaster js because most of
us are particular who reads our postal cards. After
all, you have to draw the line somewhere.

. ». Geddie Monroe ask Dave McLain if-Nero wasn’t
the chap who was always cold. Dave replied, “No,
that Was Zero, another party altogether.” Ho Hum.

.. a likable colored barber who works in Norton’s
ask the waiter in the Little Pep why he sold him
beefsteak, beans and waffles when he “just wanted
two fried eggs.” The waiter laughed and said, “Well,

I just wanted a haircut yesterday and you gave me
a tonic rub besides.”

. . . Caskie Norvell having a session with Charlie
Harris. He remarked, “Have you noticed one pe-
culiar thing about blunt people?” Charlie admitted
he hadn’t and Caskie said, “They are the ones who
usually, come to the point.” And I hear that many a
prof’s wife finds it difficult to give her husband a
liberal allowance from his salary. aR

. if all is going to happen soph week-end that
I’ve been hearing about, we'll be a wreck when it’s
over. Believe me, if you want to be in the swim
you must ankle a girl up and join in the fun. Say
it isn’t soph. I heard lately that the difference _be-
tween truth and gossip is that one is true and the
other ‘merely true to life. I am closing this time
with the memorable words of Bill Ward, “Don’t mind
the expense, give the canary another seed.”

TIP POFF.

the manuscript would be returned. Now the theft has
been widely broadcast, and a reward of $500 has been
offered if the stolen document is returned. No ques-
tions will be asked. This, it is hoped, will bring re-
sults, since the document could not be sold without
attracting the attention of the police. Up to the
Present time there has been no word from the thief.

Since Abraham Lincoln issued the first Thanksgiv-
ing Day proclamation, there has been only one Presi-
dent who has made any mention of economic troubles
in the nation as he drew up the document. That
President was Wilson, who in 1914, just after the
outbreak of the World War, mentioned the effect of
the’ great disaster upon the industrial affairs of the
United States. All the other proclamations are of a
very religious nature and are similar so that the
reader of the proclamations is unable to tell from
them the economic conditions of the country,
