rete Sep

tS)

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” °

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
EDWARD 0. GUERRANT-....___--.---------- Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON___._~--__------.-----.---- «Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARDY..-.. .__---.2-..-------2.----------Managing Editor
A. F, SCHENCK... -Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON. Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS... Managing Editor
ODL CASALTI..... -Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE.... --Exchange Editor
5 W. WHITE... -..-Feature Editor
Cc. E, NORVELL_ ----Feature Editor
D. D. McBRYDE. Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLI Associate Editor
Cc. F. MYERS.. Associate Editor
B..B. S$ .---Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

W. T. JOHNSON.--._. ------.---Assistant Business Manager
A. NSON.--_- _.-Assistant Business Manager
}- E.“NEAL___..--- --Assistant Business Manager
._ B. WOOTTON... Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN. BAYER, JR._-.-----------.--.-------------- Solicitor
H, B. DANIEL._-000TIITIITTTTITTTI Tt Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS--_. ----Solicitor
G. L. GREEN... wnennnee Solicitor
W._P. SPRUNT..- --Solicitor
J. R. TAYLOR.....--__. --Solicitor
y. A. C. WADSWORTH --Solicitor
H. E. r . --Solicitor

M. W. ALDERMAN J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN W. _L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E, F. McPHAI
D, B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN

. E. BOWERS Cc. E. NORVELL

. E, BOYD E. L. POWELL

. H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE T. H, SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C, HENRY K, D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD

. E. LORRAINE W..T. OMPSON
T. F. WOOD hk W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

MAY 18, 1932

Iudge not, that ye ‘be not judged. —Matt. 7:2.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING.

As this is the last issue of The Davidsonian, the
staff will take this opportunity to wish every member
of the student body a profitable and pleasant sum-
mer, and we hope that all the members of the lower
classes will be able to return when college opens next
fall. .

D.

The pitching of Charlie Pearce and the playing of
the whole baseball team was excellent in their 1-0
win over Wake Forest. The Freshman nine also did
its part in winning 10-1 over the Deacons on our

home field last Friday.

D

As a parting word to the class of '32, we will wish
them success and hope they will come back to the
campus at every opportunity possible and renew old
acquaintances.

D

Pi Delta Alpha has continued its policy of obtain-
ing some outstanding physician or surgeon to speak
to those members of our student body who are in-
tending to take up medicine as their life work by
getting Dr. Hamilton McKay as the speaker last
Friday.

D.

The Y. M. C. A. has always had extraordinarily
good men as secretaries and the selection of Sam
Wiley is no exception to the rule, Judging from the
record he has made while in college, we have no
doubt that the position will be very capably filled
next year, and we know we have the sentiment of
‘the entire student body in wishing him success in
this new undertaking.

D
A COLLEGE EDUCATION

In this day of higher education on a very large
scale where attempts are made to educate the
whole mass of the people, many articles have been
written on the value of a college education from
a monetary standpoint. It is pointed out that col-
lege graduates make higher salaries, and for that
reason anyone who wishes to succeed in life
should first obtain a college degree. All this is
very true, but it is not primarily because these
people had a college education that they are suc-

‘cessful. It is merely that the most-ambitious and
enterprising youths of the land usually attend col-
lege or university if possible, but there is no rea-
son to believe that they would not attain success
if they had not spent four years in study in some
college.

Of course the value of a college course in mak-
ing a living is of recognized value, and undoubt-
edly looms very large in the eves of all seniors at
this time of year.

We venture to say, however, that ten yearsefter
a person has obtained his degree from some col-
lege, he will not look upon his alma mater merely
as the place which taught him how to. accumulate
money. If this is all that he can truthfully say of
the institution from which he graduated, he has
truly missed a great deal.

The word success has been too often used in
the United States to mean only the piling up of
wealth, whereas it has far wider meanings. A per-
son, to live a truly successful life, should’ learn
how to appreciate the fine arts, and a collegiate
institution is the place where he can learn to ap-

~ oy ue

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

OPEN FORUM

Most of us have probably noted in the classroom the
cynical attitude of a great many students toward the
League of Nations since the recent Shanghai debacle.
This great organization, like every other thing of conse-
quence in the world, has much criticism directed against
it, and many have risen just as ardently to its defense,
but on the whole it seems that most of us must admit
that the League has undeniably justified its existence.
Disallowing entirely its power or lack of power to stop
the force of a determined militarism such as Japan boasts
of, its achievement in slowly buildirg up a better tradi-
tion in international affairs, much more than balances any
foreign difficulties that have sprung from the council
tables of Geneva.

The casual reader of public affairs only hears or reads
about the League when the eyes of the world are cen-
tered upon some crisis such as has recently occurred in
Asia, Little does he dream of the daily work that is car-
ried on by the Secretariat at the Palace of Nations. The
administration of the various undetermined areas in the
world, the protection of minority peoples within the
bounds of the various states, the financial rebuilding of
Austria, and the supervision of reparations agreements
are but a few of its myriad tasks. Every treaty made by
any government is duly recorded here and made public
to a world that deserves to know the facts. Just this one
fact of recording and publicizing treattes will almost of
itself prevent another catastrophe such as that of 1914,
which was largely brought on by the snares of secret
diplomacy.

Just this week the League’s power to crystallize -the
public opinion of the world in favor of that which is
just and moral has been forcibly demonstrated by «the
Japanese evacuation of Shanghai.+This evacuation, how-
ever, does not close the matter, and the commission ap-
pointed by the League to investigate the whole affair
will continue its task until an impartial decision has been
reached.

The League has given the world a conscience, which
conscience is slowly but surely increasing its power of
moral perception, until the day is come. when justice
rather than force of arms shall be the guiding principle
of nations. The League will have difficulties and set-
backs, yes, but remember that the really great things
develop, but slowly. The giant oak grows not as the
bamboos shoot.

“Men my brothers, men the workers, ever
reaping something new;

That which they have done but symbol
of the things that they shall do,

Till the war drum throbs no longer
and the battle flags are furled

In the Parliament of Man, the Federation
of the world.”

Collegiate Ramblings

J. E. Lake aa

Vv. ML

More Air Echoes. Listen to Hal Kemp over KDKA,
Pittsburgh, some night of you want to hear reat music.
We think he comes on about 10:30 every night; listen-
ing to him may interfere with your listening to Wayne
King, who comes on at 10:45; take your pick. The writer
of Air Echoes thinks that Ted Weems has a better orches-
tra than Guy Lombardo. We beg to differ with him. We
admit that Ted is plenty good, but his music isn’t as
soothing as that of Guy’s. You can come in after‘a hard
day’s work, listen to Guy, and you would forget that you
were ever tired. Ted doesn’t affect you this way because
his music has rhythm that is entirely too fast to soothe
the nerves.

Agnes Scott

Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Greensboro, and well known to Davidson stu:
dents, will preach the baccalaureate sermon at Agnes
Scott this year on May 29 at 11 o'clock.

Sewanee
There will be no summer school held at Sewanee this

summer because of the lack of enough students to make
up the summer school.

Wake Forest

There are 123 seniors at’ Wake Forest who are cxpect-
ing degrees at graduation this year. Dr. Luther :Little,
pastor of the First Baptist Church of Charlotte, will
preach the commencement sermon on Sunday morning,
May 29. Dr. Walter E. Dodd, University of Chicago
historian, will deliver the baccalaureate address on June 2.

Emory

Seven men were récently tapped and initiated into
Omicron Delta Kappa, hohorary leadership fraternity ‘at
Emory. .

Emory has been throwing out honorary fraternities

right and left recently; four that were formerly in exist-.

ence are now in oblivion. Remember. Dr. Foreman’s talk
the other day in chapel?

; University of Tennessee
Recently Tennessee had the pleasure of having as its

— SSS

preciate the finer things in life. If coming to col-
lege does not stimulate us to increase our knowl-
edge, not for the gaining of wealth, but for our
own profit personally, it has not served its pur-
pose. The true criterion of the American college
should be to teach us to live rather than to make
a living.

THE CINEMATIC EYE

Wednesday, May 18—State’s Attorney

John Barrymore and Helen Twelvetrees are co-starred
in, this picture, and what ought to be one fine show
doesn’t turn out that way. The Barrymore is convinc-
ing; in fact, he turns out one of the best performances
of his movie career. Although Twelvetrees is as easy
to look at as usual, her performance is far below par.

The best performance of the show i¥ given by William ~

Boyd, who has such a good role that he almost steals
the picture.

The plot, as you should know from the title, concerns
a criminal lawyer named Tom Corrigan (John Barry-
more), inclined to making cynical observations on the
discrepancies between justice and law. Lawyer Corrigan
is thick with thieves and through the influence of a

-political gangster (William Boyd) he is made state’s

attorney. One evening he sees a girl (Helen Twelvetrees)
brought into court. He defends her, and they become
friends. Presently Lawyer Corrigan is called upon to make
a difficult decision. He has a chance to be made governor
if he refranis from convicting his gangster friend for
murder. Instead, with icy contempt for his listeners, his
career and gangster friend, he sets out to obtain a con-
viction. :
The show is recommended, with reservations.

Thursday, May 19—Reserved for Ladies

Reserved for Ladies is a supposedly modern story with
lots of “hot-cha” thrown in to make you laugh. It has
for its star Leslie Howard, who has appeared recently
with Ann Harding in Devotion, and with Marion Davies
in Five and Ten. Howard lives up to his usual standard,
and for such aepoor story he does admirable work.

Friday, May 20—The Rich Are Always With Us

In The Rich Are Always With Us, the attractive Ruth
Chatterton has at last been given a role which really suits
her; we have always enjoyed the work of this young
lady, and it has been with a bit of disappointment to see
her in such unfeeling ,characterizations as she has been
given in her last few pictures. However, her new lead,
George Brent, should come in for his share of the praise.
Bettie Davis and John Miljan give good performances,
too. ‘ “

The story concerns a young woman (Ruth Chatter-
ton) who, deserted for another woman, re-marries, but
finds herself still interested in the welfare of her ex-hus-
band. The inevitable (Hollywood way) happens—they
meet, and romance is in the air; but the thing is not so
simple for husband No. 2 is still “on deck.” However,
the whole affair is worked out in a rather amusing man-
ner, and we find true love triumphant.

You will enjoy this good acting and somewhat amus-
ing plot.

Saturday, May 21—The Miracle Man

The Miracle Man was a great success when made as
a silent film in 1919, Now, remade as a talkie; it is an
anomalous parable more confusing than inspiring. Certain
vicious characters led by a wretched John Madison (Ches-
ter Morris) find an old faith-healer (Hobart Boswarth)
practicing his innocent seances in a sea coast village. They
form an adroit plan to exploit his doddering abilities.
First they procure a knowing minx (Sylvia Sidney) to

_take care of the faith-healer. Then they have a contor-

tionist drag himself about on his haunches and unwrap
when the faith-healer looks to heaven. To their dismay,
the faith-healer works other and less specious miracles.
In the end, instead of absconding with monies they have
collected from his patients, they become converted. They
decide to stay with the faith-healer and build him a
chapel.—Reprinted from Time newsmagazine.

Monday, May 23—Huddle

In Fluddle we have Ramon Novarro in another role
suchi'as made him famous in The Midshipman. The glam-
orous background of Yale’s famous campus gives thrill-
ing realism to the story, while the football sequences show
many all-Americna stars in action, including Ernie Pick-
ert, Jess Hibb, Gene Clark, Don Hill, and others of
equally known national fame.

Madge Evans takes the leading feminine role with
Una Merkle furnishing some of the most amusing com-
edy spots of her career.

Fast-moving action, thrilling football games, and all
the sparkle of modern campus life have gone into this
feature’ to make it one of Novarro’s most entertaining
efforts. _

Ralph Graves is convincing as the hard-boiled football
coach who drives his boys to win, while John Arledge,
who drew considerable attention while playing with
Billie Dove in Age for Love, takes an important role
as Novarro’s staunch friend. This picture is recommended
to the same people that enjoyed Touchdown, Sky Devils,
et cetera.

Tuesday, May 24—Society Girl

James Dunn returns to the screen unfortunately with-
out Sally Eilers. For in Society Girl he does not have the
talented Sally to carry him through. The story is poor,
but the action fast even if it is not good. Peggy Shan-
non and Spencer Tracy are included in the cast.

Wednesday, May 25—Letty Lynton

Letty Lynton returns to Davidson the popular love
team of Joan Crawford and Robert Montgomery in a
story of a girl who “sowed her wild oats” until she met
the man she really loved.

As a result of her sowing, the time comes when Craw-.-
ford must blast her reputation or face prison for murder.

But her mother and Montgomery are understanding peo- |

. t
guest William Gibbs McAdoo, who spoke to the Pan-
Hellenic Council at Tennessee. .

BON VOYAGE. GOOD-BYE, SENIORS, GOOD
LUCK.

WORLD SPECTATOR

Recently in the Royal Belgian Observatory the as-
tronomers observed a small point of light which they
have since determined is probably another satellite of the
earth. This ponti of light was first thought to be a comet
or some similar object, but after continued watching by
observatories all over the world, it has been found to have
an orbit around the earth. Thus the earth has another
moon if the discovery is able to stand more tests’ as to
its distance, size, orbit, and material. The distance from
the earth to the new discovery is about ten million miles.
This may seem a great distance, but when compared with
other astronomical distances it is rather close. It is closer
than Eros, our closest planet neighbor. As yet no definite
knowledge of the object is to be had, but astronomers are
working in order to get to the facts.

In New Orleans recently a new cure for asthma was
discovered. The patient was a clerk in a millinery shop
who handled a great quantity of felt hats made of rab-
bit hair. The doctors diagnosed the case and tested to see
if the diagnosis was correct. After this they gave her a
treatment of a hypodermic injection of “extract of felt
hat.” Just how the extract was made is not known, but it
cured the asthma.

Recently the Navy has fitted out the battleship U. S. S.
Utah, so that it is a robot ship. The purpose of this ar-
rangement of radio control of the battleship is not for
use in war, but for use by the Pacific fleet in target prac-
tice. The ship was consigned to the scrap heap by the
London Treaty, so the Navy officials decided that the
vessel would be of more value as a target than as scrap
iron.

As the result of this decision, the vessel was sent to
Norfolk Navy Yard, where it was overhauled and sup-
plied with radio equipment so that the ship may be
maneuvered at a distance by use of radio signals. The
sending set for the controlling radio is to be placed on
a destroyer which will stay about a mile from the ship.
The apparatus will not only control all the boiler valves,
regulate the oil supply, but will change the ship’s course
and make a smoke screen.

Congress is having trouble balancing the budget of the
national government. For last year, the deficit was rather
large and at the present rate it will be larger this year,
unless something is done. @ :

Many seem to think that there is no need of balancing
the budget now. They contend that it would be per-
missable to borrow money to cover the difference now
in this time of depression. They point out that during
the war the government borrowed huge sums and state
that in a similar period which they say we are having
now, a similar policy should be adopted. The fallacy in
this statement is apparent when the national credit js
thought of. The United States cannot continue to bor-
row money without affecting the national credit. The na-
tion is just like an individual as far as principles of
credit go.

Another method of balancing the budget is by the in-
crease of taxes. The trouble with this method is the fact
that taxes are already as high as the public will allow
itself to be taxed. Any increase of taxes would bring
the members of Congress into great disfavor among the
voters, and since election time is approaching, many Con-
gressmen are not willing to defeat any hopes of re-elec-
tion by such an action.

Another method is by cutting the expétses of the gov-
ernment. At present this method has failed to make any
headway. Many_of the public officials, though rather eco-
nomical and conservative in their private business, do
not consider the fact that there is some limit to the in-
come of Uncle Sam. They are always ready to pass bills
giving huge sums of money to various causes. Many use-
less and rather expensive bureaus and government offices
have been formed. A great many of these could be cut
out without lowering the efficiency of the government.
A great deal of the waste and extra donations could also
be cut down if need be. The trouble with this is that too
mnay Congressmen are not caring to lose votes by break-
ing up a few of the government jobs. Naturally they do
not want a cut of their own salaries, a thing which would
be included in the general expenditure cut, The fact still
remains, however, that a man or a nation cannot spend
its money and have it, too. Either the income must he
increased or the expenditures must be decreased. It is up
to Congress to decide which is the best of the two, al-
though neither looks very pleasing.

————————————
ple and know that Crawford is innocent. So the reputation
is shot to pieces in order that freedom may be kept.

The picture begins with Crawford on a care-free, ad-
¥enturous outing punctuated with romantic affairs in
South America. One of these is with Nils Asther with
whom she becomes infatuated. Realizing that her infatua-

‘tion is dangerous, she returns to New York.

En route, she meets and falls in love with Montgomery
as a young American polo player. When the boat docks,
they are engaged.

But Crawford finds that her old love affairs have fol-
lowed her and threaten her new. Most insistent of her
suitors is Asther, who has preceded her by plane. She
goes to his room to plead that he leave her in happiness,
planning to commit suicide if he refuses.

By mistake, Asther gets the poison and dies. Suspicion
points toward Crawford and she stares prison in the face
until Montgomery comes forward with an alibi which
will shatter her reputation. Her mother, divining the ruse,
backs up the alibi, and Crawford goes free. Montgomery
tells Crawford that he knows all, but loves her and there-
fore the past doesn’t count.

Letty Lynton was directed by Clarence Brown from
a novel by Marie Belloc Lowndes. Lewis Stone, May
Robinson, Louise Closser Hale, Emma Dunn, Walter
Walker, and William Pawley are included in the start-~
ling case. |
