» Ne

bs THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 11, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
.-Business Manager

EDWARD 0. GUERRANT.
P. M. CONWAY...........-..

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARDY.....-. Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK ..---.-Managing itor
W. M. THOMPSON... M g Editor
ACIS WINSSTAIM Sisco i ssi cb cccvesuswacacolciedse. Managing tor
ODI CASALI -Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE... --Exchange Editor
. W._WHITE eature Editor
Cc. E. NORVELL.. ..Feature Editor
D. D. McBRYDE 3 id ssociate Editor
Ry IO MOGA WE acc222. clcscccudocacccpeaccousese Associate Editor
C, F. MYERS..._..- mode -Associate Editor
BeBe GGsiiusqcllascucsaduswancesceanueGuietes Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON. --Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE. Assistant Business Manager
gah WHITTE Assistant Business Manager
~R BROW Secsucsodacilalususopeauusds Subscription Manager
W.. T. OHNSO Solicitor
q: F OVNI OE BasecsosabadccaucceseSOlBitor
. B, WOOTTON .-Solicitor
AY Hi-CMAN SONisdiecuvesd secede taadasce cc scsdeuecususees Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Pel GAR Bissdusduses cscccueeccbsulajusdsedoudouasuuevead President
NaS ca GA MIS b Wievussbulcduacclschubseisssunasapedans Vice-President
UWS" GREGG i se Sco ested Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN J..L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN W._L._ McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. _L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS Cc. E. NORVELI
. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B. L, ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON
zack HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
S. C. HENRY K, D. EKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. D
. E. LORRAINE W._ T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD i, W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

|

MAY 11, 1932

|

A good name is rather to be chosen than great
riches, and loving favour rather than silver and
gold. —Proverbs 22:1.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The baseball team seems to be a bit unlucky this
season in the ninth inning. That was a hard game
to lose last Friday. 9
-D

The playing of Miss Charlotte Lockwood was excel-
lent and we students at Davidson were indeed fortu-
nate to have such an artist render a recital for us.
D.

According to Ned Dwelle, the Annual has been un-
avoidably delayed a little, but it will appear in the
near future.

D.
The assassination of President Doumer of France
is one of the miost atrocious crimes in recent times
in political history and it is to be deeply regretted
by all the nations of the world.
——D.
The Olympic Games will undoubtedly be a draw-
ing attraction for many college students this summer
and Davidson is no exception to this rule. If all our
students who claim they will be there do attend the
games, Davidson should have a representative group
in the West.

The Davidsonian staff extends its congratulations to

the men recently initiated into Phi Beta Kappa.
—D.

The running of Fleagle bordered on the sensational
this week in coming so close to Farmer when he won
the hundred in 9.8 seconds and“the two hundred and
twenty yard dash in 21 seconds.

D.

The running of Bradley’s horse, Burgoo King, was
as unexpected as it was tional last Saturday.
According to most critics, Tick On was widely fa-
vored to win the Kentucky Derby.

De,

Now that summer weather .is with us again we ex-
pect that the Catawba River will be the scene of a
good many swimming parties on sunny afternoons
till the end of school.

SS
COURTESY

The students at Davidson have a commendable
reputation for conducting themselves as gentle-
men when on the campus and when away from
the college, and we believe that this is not unde-
served. We pride ourselves on asserting that we
are Davidson men because of the fine standing in
the South and throughout the Nation which Da-
vidson enjoys. Generally we do not seem to real-
ize, however, that this reputation has been built up
by the students of the college in the past and that
we have to maintain a certain standard of conduct

to perpetuate this same good name for the fu-
ture.

In one respect we seem to have fallen far short
of the conduct which is becoming to a Davidson
or any other college student. It seems to us that
hissing during the chapel services which has been
rather prevalent recently is one of the most dis-

rteous exhibitions possible. This is without
doubt thoughtless on the part of the students, and
there is only a minority of the students who parti-
cipate in this, but these few give an unsavory
reputation to the student body as a whole. There
is absolutely no excuse for this action and it only
shows the poor breeding of those who engage in

- ‘

THE OLYMPIC GAMES

Once every four years the most outstanding ath-
letes from practically all the nations of the world
gather to compete with one another. The recent
Olympic Games were re-established about forty
years ago, and were in reality a continuance of the
Olympic Games held in Greece in ancient times
when youths assembled to test their strength with
others from all parts of the Aegean region. In
the last forty years, of course, these games have
heen much greater in scope because many more
athletes participate and more events are sched-
uled.

This coming summer in Los Angeles a whole
city will be built for the three thousand athletes
who will come from approximately forty nations.
This city will have its own roads, water system,
transportation system, hospital, fire and police de-
partments, moving picture theatre, and every con-
venience of a modern town. In this city the rep-
resentatives of each nation will have the privilege
of residing in houses constructed after the archi-
tecture of the native lands in many instances.
Olympic Village, as this. settlement will be called,
is being constructed at a cost of one-half million
dollars and will be one-half mile square. The cot-
tages are to be constructed in four different gen-
eral types—Norman-French, English, Mexican
farmhouse, and Indian pueblo. The people of each
nation also will have the kind of food they have
heen accustomed to in their homeland, especially
prepared for them. Undoubtedly this is an ar-
rangement which is very desirable and should
make the participants feel very much at home and
add materially to their comfort and enjoyment.

From the point of view of the American public
this is an opportunity which they probably will
not have again in many years, and everyone who
can possibly reach the west coast should do so
if it is within his power. It seems logical that in
such a gathering as this where athletes will com-
pete in every sport possible, that this is one way
in which world peace may be furthered. Truly this
is a lofty ideal toward which to work, and if the
Olympic Games do foster an international friendli-
ness to the slightest degree, they are well worth
all the effort and expense necessary to conduct
them—aside from the many other aspects which
make them highly desirable and profitable.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Vv. M. IL
Air Echoes, a part of The Cadet, tell us that Tony
Wons, Morton Downey, and Jacques Renard’s orchestra
will leave the air on May 28. Too bad for the Wons
and Downey fans. Here’s a little poem written by the
writer of Air Echoes, which will cheer up the Ben Bernie
fans :

Lombardo and Whiteman?

Just so much clatter

When compared to Ben Bernie's
Music and chatter.

Washington and Lee

At the mock Democratic ‘National Convention held at
W. & L.' recently, Franklin D. Roosevelt, governor of
New York, was chosen to be the Democratci nominee for
President on the ninth ballot, and Henry Flood Byrd of
Virginia was chosen to be his running mate; Byrd was
chosen on the fourth ballot. In the final tabulation the
voting stood: Roosevelt, 607 and Newton D. Baker, 208.
The balloting showed plainly that the two favorites were
Roosevelt and Baker. Smith and Garner also ran, but
they ran entirely too slow to even touch Roosevelt. Byrd
had a total of 634 votes on the fourth ballot to win the
honor of being the Democratic candidate for Vice-Presi-
dent. Other candidates for the Vice-Presidency were:
Cordell Hull of Tennessee, J. Hamilton Lewis of Illinois,
James A. Reed of Missouri, Thomas J. Walsh of Mon-
tana, Alben William Barkley of Kentucky, Joseph T.
Robinson of Arkansas, David I. Walsh of Massachusetts,
Pat Harrison of Mississippi and Paul V. McNutt’ of
Indiana. :

Henry Theis and his famous orchestra will play for
the Washington 4nd Lee Finals.

Here’s a good one on Eddie Cantor. He had been
down in Florida basking in the sun, and had turned a
very dark brown from the rays of the sun. Following this
he returned to a southern city further north and went
into a very fashionable hotel with his chauffeur, who was
of the Ethiopian color, and applied for a room. The clerk
at the desk very indignantly said, “Sorry, but we don’t
take colored folks.” The man that makes the queer noise
made the queer noise and whipped over to the other good
hotel in town and there he engaged a suite, much to
the chagrin of the first hotel.

Wake Forest

A\ V. Washburn of Greensboro, newly elected editor
of the Howler at Wake Forest, was elected president of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association for next
year. John Minter of Duke, and Miss Virginia Allen
of N. C. C. W., were named first and second vice-presi-
dents, respectively, of the association; Miss Edith Storm
of Queens-Chicora, secretary, and Jimmy Creech of State,
treasurer.

—
such actions. The person who is conducting chapel
or making an announcement is conscientiously do-
ing what he believes is his duty to the best of his
ability and certainly should have the respect of

everyone in the hall, whether the material pre-

sented interests us or not. In common courtesy
to the person before the student body in the future
let us show more consideration in our actions and
strive to uphold the traditions which are David-
son’s,

Keyhole Komment
By
CASKIE NORVELL

Tarzan’s unearthly call to his fellow jungle crea-
tures seems to have taken the campus by storm. The
night following the showing of the movie at Mr.
Stough’s picture emporium, the campus was kept
awake all night by the fierce noise.

These North Carolina educational institutions seem to
have a propensity for having their May Days, and other
May functions, out of date. First the Chapel Hillites ran
their May Frolic off the last week-end in April, and then
Salem had to ring one in on the boys by throwing on
April May Day. It’s too much for me.

One of our rising track men in the Freshman class
seems to be well interested in Gr boro. This stop-
ping over between trips to Chapel Hill is bad. He’d
better watch himself.

We read John Lake’s column every week, and we no-
ticed that the old boy had some dope on a few of the
snap courses offered by some colleges. The “Ring-Tum-
Phi” of Washington and Lee University published an ar-
ticle that told of a credit course in love-making given
at Rollins College.

One of the students residing in East dormitory has
taken to keeping a crow. This nature lover captured
the fowl somewhere in the wilds of Davidson or sur-
rounding districts.

We saw the silent of “So Big,” and if Barbara Stan-
wyck can’t do Enda Ferber’s character of Selina any
more justice than Colleen Moore did it, she’s sorry. It’s
a swell book and should make a good talkie. We'd see it.

Some of the faculty members were out last week
warming up for the impending diamond classic. We'll
bet there were some sore professors giving lectures
the next day. They seemed to look pretty fair.

The Yellow Sweater Club of Penthouse West con-
tinues to thrive. Several new men have been added, and
they are thinking about petitioning a national for a char-
ter. Some of those yellow knickers Belk’s showed last
week would help them out during rushing season. You

”

can easily spot their men on the campus.

The companies in the local R. O. T. C. battalion
ran off a little competitive drill last week. It’s rumored
that after today we ain’t gonna study war no more
this year.

My pal across the page asks me‘to give him some
dope on -“girl-break dances.” A number of Davidson
Freshmen took it upon themselves a while back to gird
up their loins and be off to Charlotte to give the fair
femmes a break at the leap-year dance, as leap-year only
comes once in four years. Joy was in the hearts of the
Davidson dynamoes as they departed to slay Charlotte’s
fairest with the gift of the most perfect of lines. Strange
to say, the comments on said dance aren't nearly as en-
thusiastic as we had expected. On the contrary, they are
quite bitter over their failure to receive the rush they had
expected. ‘Never again,” declare the local power-houses.

The Concord delegations don’t function at all like
they used to. This several times a week club isn’t
even going any more, to say nothing of the regular
old Saturday nighters. A rather stumpy student up on
the fourth floor of West is still thrilling the Concord
women, and keeping up the reputation of the old
guard, Come, come boys, get back to seeing the little
girls, and give them a great big break, or else let us
in on what the trouble is, as this column can also be
used for advice to the love-lorn, or what have you?

WORLD PEACE

It is still open to Mr. Stimson, if he chooses, to render
a service to mankind in general and his own country in
particular by favoring the international limitation of arm-
aments on the only basis this side of the millennium which
is workable—namely, by frank recognition that the up-
holding of world peace is properly a matter of co-opera-
tive concern among law-abiding nations, precisely as the
support of law and order in any human community is a
matter of co-operative concern among all law-abiding
citizens.

Let Mr. Stimson remember that before becoming Mr.
Hoover’s Secretary of State he was Secretary of War
and in the Cabinet of President Taft. Let. him recall the
meeting in Washington under the chairmanship of Mr.
Taft of the League to Enforce Peace, in 1916, and the
principles their enunciated.

The plan presented by France at Geneva is in exact

accordance in letter and spirit with the principles laid .

down by the League to Enforce Peace. In other words,
it is in essence an American plan which France is now
promoting.

Why do the many leaders of public opinion who were
prominent in the League to Enforce Peace keep silent at
this time? If what they-advocated in 1916 was sound then,
it is sound now and should have their active support. It
is now, when measures are being considered to prevent
a repetition of the world conflict, the aftermath of which
wrec) the artificial prosperity born of the war profits,
that ‘he real friends of the principles advocated by the
League to Enforce Peace should make themselves heard.
This is the acid test between the real upholders of those
principles and those who take up causes only to betray
them by desertion in the hour of need—From New York
Times.

Emory ~
Six undergraduate students and four alumni were elect-

ed to Phi Beta Kappa at Emory recently.

State
. Those poor State boys. They are so’ poor that they
can't afford to have any better orchestra for their Finals
than Ted Weems and his famous orchestra. Finals a
State will be June 3, 4, and 6. If those boys are poor,

the rest of us must be paupers and headed for the good

poor house. Cheer up, State.

World Spectator

Russia, at the present time, presents a greater enigma
than usual. Various reports come from that vast area,
telling of wonderful successes of the Five Year Plan and
at the same time many dismal failures are reported.

Probably the most encouraging things are the reports
put out by the Soviet itself. In these articles the plan is
pictured as working, with the people having contro] of
the government, and all the living conditions greatly im-
proved. The people are contented, are being educated,
and are all very patriotic and anxious to see the success
of the Five Year Plan. Great industrial plants are being
built, and Russia is appearing as one of the rising pow-
ers of the world.

However, other tales.come out which present the other
side of the question. Among the first of these, and the
most recent, is the threat of famine in the country. This
is something which is very hard on the reputation of the
country and the Soviet system., It shows the grim humor
of the Five Year Plan. It was only a short while ago
that the United States was flooded with Wheat from Rus-
sia. Now these same Russians are starving. Not nly jis
it true of foodstuffs, but the Five Year Plan has used
the same system for many other commodities Shoes are
sent abroad to market in order to get money while the
Russians themselves go without shoes. The leaders tell
the people that this is all for the good of the Five Year
Plan, but at the same time the fact that it is helping
along does not ease the life of the daily worker.

This brings up a point of thought. Since the people are
deprived and made to do without the essentials of fife, it
would seem that it is not they, after all, who are running
the government. Many Russian observers have decided
that as far as political freedom goes, the average Russian
has no more than he did while the Czar was in power.
It has been shown quite clearly that the day worker in
Russia is made to do certain required things, whether
they are to his liking or not. He is allowed certain com-
modities, certain holidays, certain living quarters, and cer-
tain jobs. If he does not accept the dictates of the lead-
ers, he is ostracized, a condition which is as bad ct worse
than excommunication.

Probably one of the strongest evidences against the
Soviet rule is the fact that along the border line between
Russia and Roumania, many Russians attempt to cross
the Dneister River in order to escape the tyranny of the
Soviet. These fugitives hide on the Russian side .f the
river, and at a convenient time they either swim, or in
winter cross on the ice of the river. The Russian govern-
ment has posted guards along the frontier with power-
ful searchlights, machine guns, and bloodhounds. It is
estimated that an average of three people are killed every
day while attempting to cross into Roumania. Many of
these are women and children who are seeking to get
into a free land where they do not have to obey the
orders of a small group of men.

The reason for all the different opinions given by trav-
ellers in xussia is that some see only a small portion
which the Soviet wants to let the tourist see. Others pene-
trate into the distance provinces and see the conditions
which prevail away from Leningrad and the more’ pros-
perous looking regions. -

But in spite of the fact that there may be discontent
and oppression in Russia, that country, because of its
great size and manpower, presents a grave figure in
European affairs.

Now is the time for all the young ladies to get out

‘their bicycles. Back in the “gay ’90’s” all the young girls

used to ride, but for the past few years this habit has
been confined mostly to certain girls’ colleges. Recently.
many ‘young married ladies of Chicago have started mak-
ing their social calls, not by automobile, not even in
Austins, but-on-bicycles..Maybe it is the depression, but
whatever it is, now is the time to bring out the old tan-

dem. w

The world may be in a terrible condition, but this is
not the first time that it has had serious. problems which
disturbed all phases of society. The following quotation
may well have appeared in yesterday's paper, but it
didn’t. It was taken from Harper’s Weekly, dated Octo-
ber 10, 1857, about seventy-four years ago:

“It is a gloomy moment in history. Not for many
years—not in the lifetime of most men who read this
paper—has there been so much grave and deep appre-
hension; never has the future seemed so incalculable
as at this time. In our own country there is universal
commercial prostration and panic, and thousands of
our poorest fellow citizens are turned out against the
approaching winter without employment, and without
the prospect of it.

“In France the political caldron seethes and bubbles,
with uncertainty; Russia hangs, as usual, like a cloud,
dark and silent upon the horizon of Europe; while
all the energies, resources and influences of the Brit-
ish Empire are sorely tried, and are yet to be tried
more sorely, in coping with the vast and deadly In-
dian insurrection, and with its disturbed relations in
China.

“It is a solemn moment, and no man can feel an
indifference (which, happily, no man pretends to
feel) in the issue of events.

“Of our own troubles no man can see the end. They

| are, fortunately, as yet mainly commercial, and if we

are only to lose money, and by paigful poverty to be |
taught wisdom—the wisdom of honor, of faith, of
sympathy and of cHarity—no man need seriously to
despair. And.yet the very haste to be rich, which is
the occasion of this widespread calamity, has also
tended to destroy the moral forces with which we are
to resist and-subdue the calamity.” ‘
