THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

= a
— —

ALUMNI PERSONALS

JUSTIFIED PRIDE

Davidson of Long Ago

Alumni visitors to the campus during the past
week were J. L. Bell, '70, of Brevard; Harry
B. Elliott, ’18, of Charlotte; H. C. Little, ’27,
of Advance; B. G, Henry, ’28, of Kannapolis,
and E. S. Grady, ’32, of Chapel Hill.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of
Mrs. S. M. Robinson, of Lowell, sister of J. K.
Hand, '01, of Charlotte, and mother of Coit M.
Robnison, °10, of Lowell. The father of Mr.
Hand and Mr. Robinson died about a month
ago.

Congressman J. Bayard Clark, ’05, of Fay-
etteville, is an unopposed Democratic nominee
for the United States House of Representatives
from the Seventh North Carolina District. The
Republicans are not offering a candidate in that
district. Congressman Clark has just completed
his first term in Congregs.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, of Charlotte,
was one of seven North Carolinians who last
week were chosen at the annual convention of
the Medical Society of this, state for member-
ship on the North Carolina Board of Medical
Examiners. He will serve for six years. Of the
sixteen medical men nominated for the post,
Dr. McKay led the ticket in number of votes.
Dr. J. W. MacConnell, 02, of Davidson, is a
retiring member of this board, and has been
secretary of it for the past six years.

Rev. W..M. Currie, '19, of Belmont, has
been chosen moderator of the Kings Mountain
Presbytery, and Rey. T. G. Tate, ’10, of Gas-
tonia, has been made reading clerk of that
body.

The Charlotte Observer last Sunday had as
its “Yesteryear” snapshot, pictures of the twins,
Batte Irwin, ’09, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Sher-
iff John R. Irwin, ’09, of Charlotte. The photo
was taken when these two Davidson alumni
were about one’ year of age.

J. T. Kerr, '29, medical student at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, was one of six stu-
dents in that department who made the honor
roll for the-fall and winter quarters. Mr. Kerr
was fomerly instructor in chemistry at David-
son.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, 08, of Chester, S. C.,
is president-elect of the South Carolina Med-
ical Society, this election taking place last week
at the 84th annual session of that body. This
means that Dr. Abell will assume the presi-
dency for the 1933-1934 year of that society.

James M. McCorkle, 90, who is now receiver
for the Cumberland National Bank of Fayette-
ville, has resigned from the City Council of
Salisbury, because he will be absent from the
latter city for several months. Mr. McCorkle
was head of the finance committee of the Salis-
bury City Council, which is a most important
post.

Dr. S. M. Henderson, ’93, of Charlotte, has
announced his candidacy for a place on the
Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners.

Crawford B. MacKeithan, ’31, of Fayette-
ville, is one of two Fayettevile young men who
has been recommended to the state chairman of
the Young People’s Democratic Clubs to or-
ganize the young Democrats of Cumberland
County. $

Frank L. Fuller, ’88, of New York, an offi-
cer in the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Com-
pany, has been made a director of the New
York Southern Society. There are three other
directors besides Mr. Fuller, and membership
of the oganization is made up of a large ma-
jority of Southerners from states below the
Mason and Dixon line.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, of Red Springs, presi-
dent-emeritus of Flora Macdonald College, will
deliver the baccalaureate sermon on May Ist be-
fore the Bladenboro High School, and Rev. L.

P. Burney, ’23, pastor of the Sugaw Creek]:

Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte, last Sun-
day delivered the baccalaureate sermon to the
Newell School in this county.

Forrest J. Wright, '22, of Winston-Salem,
is one of the incorporators of the Pilot Insur-

When the South Carolina Association for
the Advancement of Séience met at Coker Col-
lege last Saturday, Dr. F. D. Jones, '96, mem-
ber of the Présbyterian College faculty, was
made president. He succeeded another Davidson
alumni in that office, Dr. R. N. Brackett, ’83,
member of the Clemson College faculty.

Rev. Lawrence Little, ’25, is now professor
of religious education at Western Maryland
College, at Westminster, Md. After graduating
from Davidson, Mr. Little studied at Duke Uni-
versity, and spent last year in the Yale Divinity
School.

Raleigh M. Engle, ’28, who has been dach-
ing at Tupelo Military Academy for the past
four years, will next year enter Union Theolog-
ical Seminary, at Richmond, Va. J. C. Laurence,
30, who has been teaching at Smithfield for
two years, and Carl R. Pritchett, ’30, -vho has
been Y. M. C. Al secretary at Davidson for a
similar period, will also: go to Union Seminary
at Richmond. F. D. Miller, ’30, who has been
on the faculty at°Stuyvestant School, Warren-
ton, Va., for two years, will also enter a sem-
inary next fall, though which one it is not
known.

Dr. F. M. Register, '93, county health offi-
cer at Goldsboro, was last week named vice-
president of the North Carolina Public Health
Association.

R. Graham White, ’25, is now connected with
Lybrand, Ross Brothers and Montgomery, ac-
countants and auditors, of Louisville, Ky. He
was formerly with the Louisville and Nashville
Railway Company.

J. Archie Cannon, Jr., ’31, of Concord, first-
year law student at the University of North
Carolina, has been elected president of the law
student body at that institution for 1932-1933.
It will be remembered that William A. Mason,
’31, was president of the first-year law class at
Duke University during the present session.

Newton B. Dicks, ’32, who transferred after
his Sophomore year to the University of Chat-
tanooga, is one of five members of the senior
class at that institution who have been elected
to Alpha, honorary scholastic society there.
Other honors which he has attained at the
Tennessee institution in the past two years in-
clude membership in Blue Key, national hon-
erary leadership fraternity; International Rela-
tions Club; Y. M. C. A. Cabinet; staff of the
University Echo, student newspaper ; Economics
Honors Club, and Stray Greek Club. Mr. Dicks
has been director of out-of-town publicity for
the institution, student assistant in the depart-
ment of economics and commerce, and is de-
partmental candidate for honors in economics
and commerce.

An account of the life of Harold C. Smith,
14, of Rockville, Md., Republican candidate
for the U. S. House of Representatives, follows:
Educated at Rockville Academy, ’11; Davidson
2 yrs.; University of Texas Law, 1916; George
Washington University, LL.B., 1921. Admitted
to Texas bar, 1915; practice at Corpus Christi
and Falfurrias, Texas, 1915-1916; county at-
torney, Republican, Brooks County, Texas,
1916-1918; admitted to practice before U. S:
Supreme Court, 1919; legal section of U. S.
Veterans Bureau, prosecuting attorney, 1919-
1925; admitted to Maryland bar, 1924; prac-
ticed in Rockville, Md., 1925 to date; enlisted
in U. S. Army, rising from private to captain;
founder and secretary, Rockville Chamber of
Commerce; founder of: Rockville Post of
American Legion, former commander ; also for-
mer vice-commander of department of Mary-

Davidson College has always been proud of
the accomplishments of its alumni, individually
and as a combined whole. Some alumni have
thought that the institution had little concern
about them once they had left the institution,
and perhaps those accusations might have been
true in part. Yet Davidson’s pride has not been
dormant. Expressions of encouragement, con-
gratulations and well wishing might have been
absent, but the college has frequently upheld
the leadership of its alumni to the wor!d, poir::-
ing to them as examples of its worthwhileness
and as a justification for its existence and con-
tinued support of a wide populace.

As the editor of this page wrote the long list
of alumni personals that appear on the right of
this column this week, he felt that an analysis
of them would show that the college was fully
and amply justified in its pride. It was also felt
that any number of items were worthy of a
special article with a large head over it, but
the limited space would not permit an augmen-
tation, but allowed-only a bare presentation of
facts. This also applies fo the column each week,
though there does seem to be more than the
usual number of high recognitions during the
past seven days.

Isn’t Davidson justified in being proud that
out of over 600 medical men, sixteen of whom
were nominated for a state board, that a David-
son alumnus should be among that sixteen and
receive the highest vote of any nominee? Should
not the institution be proud that a Davidson
alumnus was chosen vice-president of a branch
of the medical society of the state? Should not
the college glow with pride that one of its for-
mer students is president-elect of a medical so-
ciety in an adjoining state?

Is there not further justification that a Da-
vidson man was chosen head of an ‘Association
for the Advancement of Science in a nearby
state, succeeding another Davidson alumnus in
that office? Is there not reason to rejoice that
two of its alymni rank so high in the estima-
tion of peoplé}that they ‘are unopposed candi-
dates for the United States Congress? Isn't the
college prideful of the leadership its sons have
been called to in community affairs, in civic en-
deavor, in educational fields, in the direction
and guidance of church assemblies?

Can Davidson be other than proud that an
embryonic alumnus was recognized for an out-
standing place of leadership as head of a law
student body at another institution; that an-
other recent graduate headed his law class at
still another university? Isn’t there justification
for that pride in the effective service men are
rendering in preparatory schools and other
serviceable lines before further preparing them-
selves for their life’s vocations?

All of these queries are based upon this week’s
mention of alumni on this page, and were sim-
ilar questions propounded through the year ag
each man was elevated to posts of leadership
and mention through these columns, what a
document would be compiled at the end of the
session! These questions could then be multi-
plied many fold.

Glancing through the record of men at the
various seminaries, the scholarships and fellow-
ships that have been awarded them is sufficient
for a justified pride. Looking over the percent-
ages of Davidson men for all time who have

(Continued on page 6)

v

land; member, state executive committee, 1921
to date.

John M. Andrew, '28, and Paul R. Maulden,
'28, who graduate from the Medical Department
of New York University next June, have re-
ceived their respective interne. appointments to
the Employees’ Hospital of the Tennessee Coal,
Iron and Railroad Company at Fairfield, Ala.,

and to the Bellvue Hospital, New York City.

a

“DRUGS”

Students’

“PRESCRIPTIONS” |

S

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

S
“SOD A”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

.

ance Agency in Winston-Salem.

April 26, 1928

The installation of the recently elected stu-
dent. body officials and Student Council took
place in chapel on the morning of April 18.
Ex-President Hugh Arrowood conducted the
ceremony. Bob Kell, new student body presi-
dent, expressed appreciation for all the offi-
cers.

Bob Covington, new editor-in-chief of the
Annual, has made the appointments for his
next year’s staff. Following appointments were
made: R. A. Boggess, J. L. Ely, M. T. Gilmour,
R. C. Grady, G. H. Green, W. G. McGavock,
L.A. Mills, G. A. Fry, R. R. Kane, A. J. Cox,
Dave Anderson, C. M. Pratt, W. B. McGuire,
and C. H. DuBose.

Raymond Lake has recently been selected
judge of the Court of Control for the coming
year,

Captain Dick Carter and his netmen are still
very much in. the running in the North Caro-
lina State College Tennis Tournamnet which
is being held in Chapel Hill: John T. Roddey
has reached the semi-finals so far. In the
doubles Captain Carr and Roddey have reached
the semi-finals also.

Howard Arbuckle, cadet major of the local
battalion, has been elected to represent David-
son at the Scabbard and Blade Convention to
be held at Ohio State University.

April 26, 1923
L. D. Elkins was elected president of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at
the convention which was held at Queens Col-
lege last week.

Liston Elkins, Albert Hillhouse and Winston
Cox will meet three representatives of Trinity
College in a debate at Shearer Hall tomorrow.

Elias S. Faison, scrappy Wildcat end, has
been elected president of the Athletic Associa-
tion for the coming year. Jim Hendrix was
elected vice-president and Flake Laird was elect-
ed secretary-treasurer.

President Voorhees, chief executive of the

United’ Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary
fraternity, spent last Tuesday on the Davidson
campus visiting the local chapter.

The Y. M. C. A. deputations committee,
under the chairmanship of Btlh-Cooper, has ar-
ranged for six deputations to be sent out the
remainder of the scholastic year.

April 24, 1918 ©

Davidson won its second debate here Friday
night by defeating Roanoke College. The team
was composed of R. W. Cousar and G. C.
Bellingrath.

w

O. P., Hart has been declared winner in
the essayists’ contest in the Philanthropic So-
ciety.

George King spent the latter part of the
week in the infirmary with tonsilitis. However,

Corrections on Advance

Write-up of Baseball Tilt

Name of Prof. Goldiere Omitted. No
Mention Made of Catching Posi-
tion and Prospects

In the excitement of receiving the assign-
ment last. week of writing an advance news ar-
ticle on the approaching faculty-senior baseball
game on Alumni Day, June Ist, of commence-
ment, the reporter made two errors, both of
commission, which The Davidsonian gladly cor-
rects in the current issue.

The name of Prof. A. V. Goldiere was omitted
from the line-up. The reporter explained that
he had the name of Dr. G. R. Vowles.in two
places, and that it should have appeared only
as a water-boy, while Professor Goldiere’s
should have been used as a likely choice for the

‘Jouter garden occupancy.

No mention was made of candidates for the
catching berth. Readers might have been led
to believe that playing a game without a back-
stop would be one of the new versions of base-
ball. "But this omission was unintentional. The
faculty will use a receiver, the contest lying
between Prof. H. E. Fulcher and Prof. J. T.
Kimbrough. Fulcher has played behind the bat
on the faculty line-up for several years, and
looks good for another season. Kimbrough is
a candidate for pitcher, third “baseman and
shortstop, while Fulcher’s concentration with
the mit brands him almost as a positive choice.

Various comments from the faculty members,
most of which were boastful of the tanning that
they would administer to the seniors on June
Ist, have been made during the past week, and
optimism will characterize their preparation for
this embroglio, Limited space prevents quoting
them, for the comments have been, loquacious,
and The Davidsonian publishes only six pages.

Northern Prep School
Sends Many to Davidson

Stony Brook Preparatory School at Long
Island, N. Y., has recently issued a directory
of alumni and of the 144 former students listed
in it since the institution was founded in 1923,
it is disclosed that Davidson leads the 44 differ-
ent colleges and universities to which graduates
of this institution have gone for further edu-
cational’ preparation. Thirteen Stony Brook
School boys have come to Davidson, while
Princeton and New York University are tied ©
for the next highest number with nine each.
Seven of the Stony Brook graduates are in the

(Continued on page 6)

we are glad to see that he is able to be out
again.

A party of students were planning to make
a trip to Mitchell College Monday. The party
will be composed of N. P. Baba, W. P. Cum-
ming, H. A. Hill, and R. E. McClure.

The following men have been initiated into
thé Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon:
D. M. Chalmers, Emery Flinn, J. J. Love, Wm.
Love, J. W. McAlister, and E. A. Woods.

Fa

—=13

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“THE CROWD ROARS”
JOAN BLONDELL

WEDNESDAY
“TARZAN THE APE MAN”

THURSDAY .
“THE MAN-WANTED”
KAY FRANCIS
FRIDAY
“WOMAN IN ROOM 13”
NEIL HAMILTON
SATURDAY

“YOUNG AMERICA”
SPENCER TRACY

‘
r

