THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Prof. Currie Gives Third |
Address on Washington

Speaks on His Great Influence in Re- |
gard to Foreign Policies

“Those who contend that George Washington
intended for America to remain aloof and iso-
lated are reading him only partially,” declared
Prof. Archibald Currie, head of the political
department at College, in

science Davidson

speaking at chapel exercises here Thursday

morning.

Professor Currie’s address was one of four
being delivered at Davidson during the month
of February in celebration of Washington's bi-
centennial birthday. Dr. Thos. W. Lingle spoke
on “Washington's Statesmanship’; Dr. J. M.
McConnell discussed “Washington's Character,”
February 11th, and the series
18th, Dr. Walter
talk on “Washington, the Christian Gentleman”

on will close

February when Lingle will
Professor Currie’s subject was “Washington's
Influence on Our Foreign Policy.”

The Davidson speaker maintained that Wash-
ington intended for America to remain shy of
the
in Washington's day political intrigue and na
thrived.
used the phrase ‘entangling alliances’ in his ad

ordinary alliances of Europe only, for

tional aggression “Washington never
Professor Currie. “That was used
by Jefferson, and yet some of our United States

Senators

dress,” said

have quoted, Washington as saying
that we should avoid ‘entangling’ alliances.”
The contrasted — the
Washington's time with the present-day situa-
tion. “When Washington lived,” he Mikel
take for to from |

Europe to America, while today we read in|

speaker condition of

said,

would weeks news travel

the newspapers what happened in Europe yes- |
terday.” He pointed outgthat the radio brought |
the world in even closer communication, and
that it takes but a few
travel about the world.
“Washington was not against the great move-

|
seconds for news to}

ments for world peace,” said Professor Currie.
“He stood for American unity, and temporarily,
at least, for non-intervention in the ordivary

European affairs.” The speaker emphasized here
the word and inferred that
“Washington living today he would not contest
the entrance America into all |
that to international
good and universal peace.

ordinary, were

or oppose of

negotiations would lead

As an evidence of how Washington would |
view the peace movements and America’s non-
participation in them, Professor Currie read, in
closing, the following portion of his Farewell
Address, “Observe good faith and justice to
all nations; cultivate peace and harmony with
all. Religion and morality enjoin this conduct
and can it be, that good pdlicy does not enjoin
it? It will be worthy of a free, enlightened, and
at no distant period, a great nation, to give to
mankind the magnanimous and too aovel ex-
ample of a people always guided by an exalted
justice and benevolence.

Dr. MacConnell Leaves
For Chicago Convention

Dr. John W. MacConnell, Davidson College
physician and secretary of the North Carolina
Board of Medical Examiners, left Davidson
Saturday for Chicago, to attend a three-day
meeting of the National Federation of Medical
Boards. Dr. MacConnell is a member of the ex-
ecutive committee of the national organization,
and will also make a short address at the lunch-
eon on Tuesday.

Accompanying the Davidson physician and
state officer were Dr. T. W. M. Long, of
Roanoke Rapids, president of the State Board
of Medical Examiners, and David T. Tayloe,
of Washington, N. C., also a member of the
board.

The Chicago gathering is a joint meeting of
the medical licensing boards of the various
states in this country and the deans of medical
schools and universities in the United States
and Canada. Among the notable personages at-
tending will be Secretary of the Interior Wil-
bur, who will be a guest and principal speaker
of the gathering at the luncheon on, Tuesday.

Dr. R. S. Cunningham, 1911 graduate of Da-
vidson ‘and now professor of anatomy in. the
medical school at Vanderbilt University, | will
be one of the speakers and will address the
convention on the subject, “Teaching of Anat-
omy in the Medical Schools.”

Professor Fleagle
Honored by Masons

Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, of the Department of
Spanish at Davidson College, has been signally
honored by being made the District Deputy
Grand Master of the Twenty-seventh District
of the Grand Lodge of Masonry of North Car-
olina. Professor Fleagle was appointed to this
position by Mr. H. CG. Alexander, of Charlotte,
who is the Grand Master.

Mr. Fleagle is a member of the lodge at Da-
vidson, which is known as, the Mecklenburg
Lodge, No. 176. It is considered a great honor
that a member of this lodge has been appointed
to such a high position. Professor Fleagle is

also a member of the Order of the Shrine.

CT

Ss
S>
SS
=
CS |

SSS

—
=
=
—

—S

li

Copr., 1932, The
American Tobacco Co.

fur

HOT TAMALE!

Lupe landed in Hollywood with
one lone dollar and no part to
play . . . But now she has nine
coats, 15 canaries, the world's

kind to my throat”

‘No harsh irritants for Lupe. I’m a LUCKY fan. There’s
no question about it—LUCKIES are certainly kind to
my throat. And hurrah for that improve
wrapper of yours—it really opens with-

and

ny fi dozens of men ga-ga about her
... We hope you liked her in
the M-G-M PICTURE, “THE CUBAN
Yi LOVE SONG,” as much as we
did. Lupe's been a LUCKY fan
for two years .
—what is politely called ‘‘finan-
cial consideration” for her state-
ment. Gracias, Lupel

;
9 Pal

. . There was no

“It's

out a tug-o’-war—thanks to that tab.”

nly”

d Cellophane

cones
toasted

Your Throat Protection—against irritation—against coug
And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

248

VAIO

4, TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose
H gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B. C. networks.
Hi d | / " t . ]
SI AW SAY) WANS VCCI NZ UI
“yy

Prof. Foreman Declines

Rock Hill Church Call

Release from “Charlotte Observer”

Rock’ Hill, S. & Feb. 9—Announcement was
made here yesterday by the Rev. Kenneth J.
Foreman, professor of Bible at Davidson Col-
lege, N. C., that he is forced to decline the call
extended him recently to become pastor of Oak-
land Avenue Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill.
In his declination, Professor Foreman said he
believed his talents were better adapted to the
profession in which he is engaged at present,
rather than that of the ministry.

The Rev. Mr. Foreman has been filling the
pulpit of this large and popular Rock Hill
Church ever since the death of the pastor, the
Rey. Alexander Martin, D.D., and announced
yesterday that he will continue to preach here
until some pastor is obtained.

Fresh Cage Changes

Monk Younger announced today that two
basketball games had been added to the sched-
ule of the Freshman quint. The Wildkittens
will meet the Darlington School for Boys’
team at Davidson on February 19th, and the
following evening they will go to Lincolnton
to play a return engagement with the Lincolnton
Athletic Club. The latter won from the David-
son Freshmen Monday night by the close score
of 17-16.

‘this coach came to Davidson in the fall of 1915,

COACH W. L. YOUNGER

(Continued from page 1)

ideals for which the college stands. He has had

a remarkably successful coaching career at}

Hapmden-Sidney and V. P. I., and the mem- | tioned for all-South Atlantic honors. He played |

bers of the Athletic Council feel that he will
continue his success at Davidson and develop |

winning teams for his Alma Mater.”

Coach Monk Younger was the third protege |
of Bill Fetzer’s to coach the Red and Black |

football teams. When Fetzer left Davidson, |

|
“Pete” Crayton, former Davidson end, suc- |
ceeded him and directed Davidson. teams dure
ing 1918-1919. “Wooly”
guard in 1917, then took the helm and for three
years piloted-the Wildcats. With the passing
of Coach Grey, Younger, one of the greatest
football ends and all-around athletes ever at
Davidson, took up the work and came to Da-
vidson with three highly successful years of |
coaching experience behind him, On the grid-
iren he coached the wing men and each year
a V. P. I. end was selected on the mythical
South Atlantic eleven.

Grey, all-Southern

Coach Younger hailed from Lynchburg, Va.
From Lynchburg High School he went to Fish-
burne where Bill Fetzer was coaching. When

he followed him and made a remarkable record
during his first year.

“Monk” is the only athlete who has ever suc-

ceeded in making a letter in four branches of
sport at Davidson. His performance was all the
more noteworthy because he accomplished this
feat during his Freshman year. He played end
on the football team, being picked unanimously
for an all-State berth, and prominently men-

guard on the basketball team, and made his
track monogram by winning the high jump.
The following year Younger went to V. P. I,
where he starred in football, basketball, and
baseball. During his stay at Virginia Tech, he
was considered one of the best ends the
South. Walter Camp, on seeing Younger per-
form against Yale, came out on the field and
complimented him, saying that Younger was
the most aggressive end he had ever seen play
on a Southern team. :

in

In 1917, Younger joined the University of
Virginia Ambulance Unit and saw seventeen
months’ service overseas: Returning in 1919,
he became athletic director at Hampden-Sidney
College, and turned out some remarkably fine
teams.

The following year he was called to V. P. I.,
to be assistant on the gridiron and the head
coach of basketball and baseball. It was from
here that he accepted the position as head coach
at Davidson, saying, “I cannot resist the call to
my old Alma Mater, and will repors Septem-
ber Ist to give my best in the upbuilding of
the thin red line.”

It is with great regret that the students see
Coach Younger leave, but they wish him much
success in his new venture.

DR. HOWARD RONDTHALER

| (Continued from page 1)

| Arms,” and “Washington and His Colleagues
lin Establishing the Government,” were based on
two volumes of “The Chronicles of America
Series,” published by the Yale University Press.

The committee which has been in charge of
[the arrangements and presentation of these
| George Washington programs is made up of Dr.
J. M. McConnell, chairman; Dr. T. W. Lingle,
and Prof. Archibald Currie.

A change has been made in the class sched-
ule for Monday. The first two periods will come
at their regular times, but the third period will
be from 10:15 to 11:10. At 11:15, Dr. Rond-
| thaler will speak, and at 12:00 the tree will be
planted. No afternoon classes will meet.

MID-WEST STUDENT
CONFERENCE

(Continued from page 1)

Hoskins, of the University of /Tennessee, to-
gether with the appointments of/committees and
a second address, “Obligations of University
Men to the World of Today,” by Dr. Frank
B. Ward, professor of economics, University
of Tennessee. Friday, besides the ordinary work
of the conference, the delegates were taken on
a two-hour scenic trip to the Great Smoky
Mountains National Park. Saturday morning
the final reports of committees and the election
of next year’s officers took place.

