FOOTBALL PRACTICE
STARTS ON LABOR
DAY, SEPT. STH

The Davidson College

BULLETIN

FRESHMEN REGISTER
SEPTEMBER 6TH
OTHERS, 7TH :

v@nrenee 3) °

DAVIDSON, N..C., AUGUST 23, 1932

Davidson College Will Formally Open
Its 97th Session on September Eighth

Two Days Are Allotted for Registra-
tion; Freshmen on 6th, and Upper-
classmen, 7th; Faculty Convenes,
September 5th

GOOD ENROLLMENT
No Official-Figures Available, But Pre-

liminary Registration Indicates
Excellent Attendance

As the day approaches for the 97th opening
of Davidson, administration and other officials
at the college are busy in. their final prepara-
tions for the registration and reception of the
1932-1933 student body. Letters are being
mailed out to the new and old men froth the
offices of the registrar and*treasurer; room and
laundry assignments have been made, and many
other details have been attended to in order
that the two-day registration period may be con-
cluded in an expeditious manner.

The first vanguard of students will reach
Davidson on Monday, September 5th, when the
varsity football candidatts report for their uni-
forms. They will register that day, too, which
will clear the way for an.intensive preparation
on the gridiron. The second contingent ar-
rives Tuesday, when approximately 250 Fresh-
men come in during the day for registration
purposes in order to be ready for their, orienta-
tion program which begins Tuesday night. The
greatest number, however, come in on Wednes-
day, ‘September 7th,-when all of the old men
arrive, which will include about 350, excluding
the football men. :

This rushing and trying period to the ad-
_ministration_officials-witt-pave-the way for the
formal opening of Davidson with the convening
of classes on Thursday, September 8th. The
faculty of the college hold their first official
meeting of the scholastic session on September
Sth and will he aycilable to assist im the reyg-
istration of Tuesday and Wednesday. Most of
the assignment of courses will be done by the
registrar before the students arrive.

During the summer months workmen have
been busy about the campus and in the dormi-
tories, renovating the latter and -making minor

improvements on the former. The fi of
the college has been interested in varioug@ac-
tivities, as outlined in another article iffthis
publication, and as intimated above, thedmin-

istrative officers have been busy in their sep-
arate departments getting ready for the open-
ing.

While no one was inclined to give out any
official pre-registration statistics on the total
enrollment for the coming fall, indications were

(Continued on page 4)

Selection of Assistants

Made Public by Faculty

Sixty-seven Students Will’ Help in
Various Departments. Will
Earn Over $4,000.00

Sixty-seven students at Davidson will par-
tially sustain themselves financially next year
through their appointment by the faculty as
assistants in the various academic and ad-
ministrative departments of the college.
These men were selected from a large num-
ber of candidates, and their choices were
determined by the heads of the’ various de-
partments, supplemented by a careful study
of a special committee of the faculty ap-
pointed particularly for this purpose. It is
estimated by administrative officials that
students earn over $4,000.00 through their
assistance in the different departments.

The list of appointments made public by
the registrar is as follows:

Library: E. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.;
R. M. Porter, Jr., Waycross, Ga.; H. C.
Shapard, Shelbyville, Tenn.; G. R. Wood,
Charleston, W. Va.; W. L. MclIlwinen, Fay-
etteville; D. F. Blue, Jr., Midville, Ga., and
Ellis Oakes.

Monitors: B. E. Allen, Wilmington; J. B.
Caldwell, Davidson; J..R. Howard, Atlanta,
Ga; J. M. Harris, Jr.. Rome, Ga.; A. M.
Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. C. Matthews,
Lumberton, and R. B. Moffett, China.

Recorders : W. B. Ward, Timmonsville,
S>-C; and L. W. Clardy, II, Talladega, Ala.

Greek; D. D. McBryde, Linden, and G. A.
Little, Charlotte.

Latin: J. A. McGeachey, Jr., Fayetteville.

Mathematics: J. T. Blair, Albemarle; O. N.

(Continued on page 2)

Tlat-the University of Chicago; Prof. Fred L.

spending the summer recess in various capa-

Faculty Members Return
From Their Vacations

Summer Occupations Included Teach-
ing, Studying, Traveling and
Attendance at Camps

Members of the Davidson faculty are now
beginning to return to their homes here after

cities and in different parts of the country.
Some of them have been, teaching in sum-
mer sessions,\at Davidson and other institu-
tions; others “py been studying; some have
been attending camps, and others have spent
the vacation in their summer homes.

Those who were connected with the Dav-
idson six-weeks’ summer school were Prof.
F. K. Fleagle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. J. M.
Douglas, Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, Prof. W.
W. Wood, Prof. W. L. Porter, Dr. C. M.
Richards, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., Prof. A.
V. Goldiere, and Prof. H. E, Fulcher.

After the summer session, Prof. Fleagle
went for a vacation in Michigan; Dr. Mc-
Connell to Camp Carolina at Brevard; Prof.
Wood to his old home in Virginia; Prof.
Porter and Prof. Fulcher took a. trip to
Canada, and Prof. Goldiere went to New
York. The others have spent» the majority
of their time in Davidson, with the exception
of short trips. :

Dr. Fraser Hood again taught in the sum-
mer school of Ohio State: . Those who have
been studying include Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Blythe at Middleberry College in Vermont,
and Prof. Lewis B. Schenck at Yale. Prof.
Archibald Currie spent six weeks at: the
University of Michigan, being invited with
50 other professors of America to attend.a
special institute on international law.

After taking a trip to the Great Lakes re-
gion, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett went to
Camp Carolina;—Others ‘connected with this
camp during the summer were Prof. J. P.
Williams and Prof. W. N. Mebane. Dr. W.
P. Cumming spent most of the summer in
Europe. erereen

Dr. G. R. Vowles went.to his summer home
in North Dakota; Dr. H.”By~Arbuckle to.
Lewisburg, W. Va., and Dr. Geo. B. Watts to
Massachusetts. Prof. K. J. Foreman has
spoken before several religious conferencés
during the summer, including one in Texas.
Dr. M. E. Sentelle has spent part of the

vacation in eastern Tennessee. Prof. J. T.
Kimbrough has spent the summer at his}
home in Kentucky. Most of the other mem-
bers of the faculty have remained in David-
son the major portion of the time. j

Of the athletic staff, Coach Newton has!
been in Birmingham; Coach McEver at ‘his
home in Knoxville, Tenn.; Coach Laird at
Highlands, and Coach Unger and Heath |
Whittle went to California for the Olympics.
Coach Unger first attended a C. M. T. C.
camp at Camp McClellan, Ala. |

Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott was again in charge
of Camp McClellan, near Anniston, and
working with him were two others of the}
R. O.,.T. C. faculty, Capt. Chas. W. Seifert
and Capt. Wm. L. Blanton. Capt. F. M.
Cochran was detailed for duty at Fort Bragg, |
near Fayetteville. |

1932 Football Schedule

Sept. 24, Duke at Durham.

Oct. 1, W. & L. at Davidson.

Oct. 8, Wofford at Davidson.

Oct. 15, V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 22, Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
October 29, Clemson at Davidson.
Nov. 5, N. C. State at Charlotte.

Nov. 12, Carolina at Davidson (Home-

~

Coming). Cal
Nov. 24, Wake Forest at Davidson,
(Thanksgiving).

Orientation Program is
Arranged for New Men

Attendance at Sessions Is Required of
Incoming Freshman Class on
September 6th and 7th

Students entering college for the first time
must necessarily go through a period of read-
justment. Until a few years ago, the new and
old men returned simultaneously, and it was
largely left to the incoming Freshmen to ad-
just and orientate themselves. However, the
administration and faculty of Davidson recog-
nized the weakness of this, and decided to enroll
the Freshmen a day earlier than the upper-
classmen, so that they might attend an orienta-
tion program, designed particularly for “their
benefit to familiarize them with the campus
and with what would be expected of them dur-
ing their sojourn as members of the student
body.

Consequently, the men will, arrive in
Davidson on “Tuesday, September 6th, and be-
fore 5 o'clock will have completed their reg-
istration with the treasurer and registrar.
These preliminaries will therefore be out of the
way, and the Freshmen will be ready for their
program, which. will begin Tuesday night, and
will be completed the following evening. Reg-
istration of the new men on September 6th, and
attendance at. the various orientation
is required of the Freshman.

new

sessions

Prof. J. P. Williams, dean of the Freshmen,
has been annually in charge of this program,
and has announced the one for the fall of 1932.
Leading members of the faculty and adminis-
tration and of the student body are included
as speakers, and they have been assigned sub-
jects which. will be vital to the new men, and
their addresses will serve to answer many ques-
tions that might be in the minds of the ineom-
ing students.

All of the four sessions will. be held in the

handsome auditorium of the Chambers Build- !

ing. The first is Tuesday night at 7:30 o'clock,

land from 8:30 Wednésday morning until 9:30

that night, the Freshmen attend three differ-

ent programs. Questions of scholarship, use

‘lof time and money in college, the honor system

at) Davidson, regulations of the college and

extra-curricula activities will receive an elab-

| oration,

As an outside speaker, Rey. J. R. McGregor,

Th.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church |

at Lexington, N. C., has been selected, and he
will address the students on “Ideals in. College
Life.” As a climax to the program, the Fresh-
men will hear the Davidson president, Dr. Wal-
ter L. Lingle, discuss with them “What David-
son Should-Meanr torr" Sttideritr ;

The two-day program is as follows:

(Continued on page 2)

Football Predictions for 1932 Season
Are Very Cautious and Conservative

Changes Have Been Made
In This Year’s Faculty

Two Will Be Replacements; One Has
Year’s Leave of Absence—
Other Changes

Quite a few changes have been made in the
the 1932-1933

One new member of the regular faculty will

Davidson faculty for session.

arrive; another will be on a year’s leave of
absence; instructors in biology, chemistry and
physics will be replaced by student assistants ;
the R. O, T. C. faculty will be one less in
number, and the commandant of the~military
unit, who has completed his four-year period of
service, will be replaced.

Prof. John C. Bailey will return to David-
son from Johns Hopkins University, where he
has been for the past five years doing
graduate study and teaching. Prof. Bailey was
an assistant in Greek at Davidson before he
embarked upon his graduate preparation. He
will next year have the major portion cf the
work of this department. Both -Dr, C. R.
Harding and Dr. W. R. Grey, ef the Greek |
and Latin departments, respectively, will be
on a part-time basis. Prof. Ernest A. Beaty,
already’ a Davidson faculty member, will do |
the major teaehing in Latin. |

Lilly, of the department of |
English, will continue his graduate study this |
fall, and will attend either Princeton or Har- |
vard, This summer he has been at the Uni- |
versity of Chicago. |

Prof. Henry T.

Prof. Lilly has also pre- |
viously studi¢d-at-the_ University. of Vienna, |
Oxford Harvard and Princeton, |
and has done research work in libraries of sev-
eral other Phere will be no re-}
placement of Prof. Lilly during his absence, |
but his work will be apportioned to other mem- |
bers of this department.

University,

insurtutions,

Instructors Frank R. Brown, in the depart: |
ment of biology; David J. Caldwell, in pliysics, |
and Robert W. McCullough, in chemistry, will |

he replaced by efficient members of the Senior
class in their respective fields, E.'S. Brannon, |

of Rome, Ga., 1932 graduate, .willtake—addi- |
tional biology courses next session, and has
been assigned to that department as an assist
ant. Other assistants in each department are
listed in another article in this publication.

Within the past ten days, Capt. Wm. L.
Blanton has received notification from the War
Department officials that he will be transferred
to another institution, following the new  re-
He not yet
notified where he will be sent. Captain Blan-
ton has been a member of the Davidson mili
tary faculty for three years.

tirement enactments. has heen

Major John T. Rhett has been assigned by
the War Department commandant the
R. O. T. C. at. Davidson. Major Rhett will
replace Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, who will study
at the Army War College\ in’ Washington, D.
C., next year, following the\ termination of his,
Major Rhett is a
bachelor of arts graduate of the University of

as of

four-year assignment here.

| South Carolina, and has attended many of the

schools maintained by the U. S. Army.

R. 0. T. C. Appointments for 1932-1933 Session Announced |

Fred W. Ogden, of New Orleans, La., will
be the 1932-1933 Cadet Major and battalion
commander of the R. O, T. C. unit at David-
son, according to an announcement which
has been made by Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott,
retiring officer who has headed the David-
son military training for the past four years.
The appointment of Ogden and other stu-
dent officers for next year followed the six
weeks’ summer encampment at Fort McClel-
lan, Ala., and the officers were © guided in
their selections by the work of the rising
seniors in camp.

Cadet Captains appointed and the units and
Work assigned to them for, next year are
C. R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn., “A” Com-
pany; Paul F. Brown, Jr., Atlanta, Ga., “B”
Company; H. D. Cashion, Davidson, person-
nel adjutant; Brooke E. Allen, Wilmington,
adjutant; E. Bruce Peabody, Charlotte, “C”
Company; Geo. E. Baily, Hickory, “D” Com-

pany; D. Moffett McConnell, Chester, S. C.,,
plans and training, and J. C. Pennington,
Talladega, Ala., captain of the band

Other appointments were:

Cadet first lieutenants: C. E.. Moore, Jr.,
Charlotte; R. E. Conoley, Avon Park, Fla.;
Wm. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; B. B. Taylor,
Jr., Baton Rouge, La.; A. M. Manson, Jack-
sonville, Fla.; E. B. Cannon, Roanoke Rap-
ids; J. C. Calhoun, Laurinburg; W. W. Sey-
mour, Sanford; and Geo. C. Neal, Ruffin.

Cadet second lieutenants: D. D. McBryde,
Linden; J. A. Smith, Jr., Nixburg, Ala.; W.
B. Ward, Timmonsville, S. C.; W. H. Coble,
Douglas, Ga.; J. J. Stewart, Jr., Mt. Holly;
W. M. E. Rachal, Low Moor, Va.;-J...S.
Mackorall, York, S. C.; T. M. Davis, Wax-
haw; R. H. Flow, Davidson; J. E. Richards,
Liberty Hill, S. C., and W. A. Pate, Pem-
broke.

Cadet first sergeants: W. M. Brown, Knox-
ville, Tenn.; T. H. McCallie, Chattanooga,

Tenn.; F, P. Harrison, Mount Ulla, and W.
C. Mathews, Lumberton.

Cadet sergeant major: R. C. Morrow, Mex-
ico; Cadet color sergeants: F. M. Cochran,
Jr., Davidson, and H. A. Wilson, Lake City,
Fla.

Cadet sergeants: A. W. Rice, Salisbury; E.
L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; Odi Casali, ‘Welch,
W. Va.; F. H. Scott, Holyoke, Mass.; R. H.
Smith, Jr., Dillon, S.-C.; W, E, Covington,
Jr., Rockingham; C. M: Rives, Greensboro;
J. M. Covington, Jr., Wadesboro; A. S. Ra-|
chal, Low Moor, Va.; R. E. Loraine, Miami, |
Fla.; A. F. Schenck; Charlotte; J, T. Drake, |

Reasons: Only Six Veterans Will Be
Available as Nucleus; Some Candi-
dates May Not Return, and Da-
vidson Has New Coaches

START SEPTEMBER 5TH

Backfield Material Exceptionally Good.
Four Berths to Be Filled in Line.
® Good Soph Candidates

“What are the foothall prospects at David-
son this fall?” is the most frequently asked
question nowadays. The query comes from
both alumni and students, and the most logical
answer at this date is to say, that it is a ques-
tion mark, written as a capital letter, if such
is possible. No forecast is ever absolutely ac-
curate, and with certain factors to be considered
this year, it behooves any prognosticator to be
particularly cautious. ¢

With an entirely new coaching set-yp; with
only six veterans returning; with the end and
guard positions to be filled by. entirely inexpe-
rienced men; and with the possibility that some
of the strong candidates may be absent on
September 5th, when Labor Day. means more
than a celebration for the football aspirants, it
is easily understood why any mid-August pre-
dictions have to be conservative.

Coaches Newton and McEver haye had the
advantage of a month's association with their
candidates. This was last winter, when they
worked with the “men who were available,
though a number of them were participating in
other sports, and their various abilities are still
an unknown quantity to the new mentors. Coach
Newton was here during most of the spring,
and did some worthwhile work in private tute-
lage.

“Absent will be the three regular ends, Bud
Raker, Bob Johnston and Steve Brown. Gone
ere the twe. seasoned guards, Pi Counwayeand
Doc Mathis. And minus in the backfield will
he Don MacQueen and Don King. Left behind
nucleus are three backs, Buck Mills,
Charlie Pearce and Bruce Peabody; the two
tackles, Jack Wagner and Dick Whitfield, and
the center, Buddy Gardner.

Offsetting-the departure of well-trained men,
however, is the comforting fact that the Wild-
kittens last season had one of. the best Fresh-
man football teams in the history of Davidson,
and it is largely from the Sophomores that the
vacancies will be filled. The registration fee
for some of these men was not in when this
was written, but should they all come: back,
the coaches will have available plenty of ma-
terial, though the men will have to play sev-
eral games before they gain the necessary ex-

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. Ben R. Lacy is Head

of Alumni Association
New President Made Brilliant Career
at Davidson, in World War, and
in the Ministry

as a

The new president of the Davidson Afumni
Assogiation, Rev. Benjamin Rice ‘Lacy, D.D.,
a 1906 graduate of the institution, is one of the
most widely known men in the South, as presi-
dent of \Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
Va., as ‘a brilliant speaker, and as a leader in

many affairs. He is constantly ift dethand as

'a speaker before bodies and organizations of

almost every nature.

Dr. Lacy made an enviable record as an
undergraduate student at Davidson... His abil-
ity was recognized in his selection as a Rhodes
scholar, and \after studying at Oxford Uni-
versity in England he returned to this. country
to obtain his ministerial training atpUnion Sem-
inary, of which he is now president. He was
pastor at Raleigh, and when the United States
entered the World War he enlisted.

As a chaplain he became known throughout
the “The Fighting Chaplain,’ and
in times of emergency he would lead the forces
when the regular officers were killed in action.
He was with the 115th Field Artillery, 0th
Division, and held the rank of captain.

“After his return, he became pastor of the
Central Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, where
he remained until a few years ago when he>

forces as

Port.Gibson, Miss.; W. A. Lyon, Davidson; /accepted the presidency: of Union Seminary.

E. J. Humphrey, Wilmington; R. B. Moffett,
China;-W. A. Kirkland, Durham; W. T.

Davidson honored him with the doctor of divin-
ity degree in 1919. Dr. Lacy is the son of the

Johnson, Charlotte; J. A. Hunter, Donner,jlate Benjamin Rice Lacy, for many years State

La.; A. H. Manson, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.;

Treasurer and a trustee of Davidson, and is

B. L. Moore, Pendleton, S. C., and Everett the grandson of 'the late Dr. Drury Lacy, presi-

Escott, Charlotte.

|dent of Davidson from 1855-1860.
