THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE
IS ANNOUNCED

‘ THE SPORTS PARADE

VARSITY LETTERS
AWARDED TO
24 MEN

DID YOU KNOW THAT:

Coach Bob Neyland, of the University of
Tennessee, who tutored Davidson’s Coach
“Gene” McEver, once pitched a no-hit, no-
run game against Navy, and taught Tom
Bridges, Detroit pitcher, a great deal of
what he knows ... Buck Morrow, Detroit
pitching sensation last summer, used to
perform on the diamond for Davidson be-
fore he went up. He washere for the
Home-coming game... .. Coach Gene McEver
never played on a losing football team while
in college. He was once the nation’s lead-
ing scorer, and made several All-American
selections last fall. He: also starred for the
East in the East-West game last New Year's
Day... Bob Ripley has twice mentioned
the 102-yard, non-touchdown run by Thad
Brock against Duke in 1929 in his “Believe It
or Not.” ... King and McQueen played in
Davidson's backfield last year.

Crawford and Laney, of Duke; Heinemann
and Miller, of Clemson, and Espey, of N.
C. State, were the only football-players. who
opposed Davidson this year to receive men-
tion on the Associated Press’ All-American
selections, Crawford made the second team.

... In the Davidson-Clemson game, Charley
Pearce gained 82 yards from scrimmage and
completed a 25-yard pass, while Miller gained
only 20 yards and completed an 18-yard pass;
yet the latter received honorable mention
for All-American. . . . Charley Pearce has
been Davidson’s leading touchdown scorer
for the past two seasons. He led with 18
points in 1931 and 24 this year. . . . Jack
Wagner earned four athletic letters last year
and will likely repeat the performance again
this year. He was awarded varsity “D’s” in
football, basketball, golf and track... .
Little “Smilin’ Parson” Peabody, who will
captain the basketball team this winter, re-
ceived varsity letters last year in football,
basketball, and baseball; and then showed
up well in both track and swimming meets
at Fort McClellan in the summer. He stands
a good chance of earning four “D’s” this
year.

Six of the regulars who played for Col-
gate’s undefeated and unscored on team
this fall were on a freshman team which
was defeated 54-0 by a Syracuse freshman
team four years ago. .: . John Lafferty, who
has proved to be a Wildcat ace both on the
basketball and tennis courts, is a Davidson
lad but he prefers to stay in the Barracks
than to live at home.

PAGE BABSON

On paper Davidson’s football team rates
higher than the Southern Conference lead-
ers. Take a look at this! Davidson defeat-
ed Wake—Forest-7-0. Wake Forest whipped
South Carolina 6-0, Hence Davidson is 13
points better than South Carolina. Auburn,
one of the S. I, C. leaders, was tied by
South Carolina 20-20, while L. S. U., the
other leading team, defeated South Caro-
lina 6-0. Hence Davidson is 13 points bee

ter than Auburn and 7 better than L. S. U.|

Another tinkering with the scores re-
veals that the Wildcats can also be rated
above Pittsburgh, the team which rep-
resents the East in the Rose Bowl game.
N. C. State defeated Davidson 7-3, and
Richmond 9-0, whereby Davidson .is five
points better than the Virginia school.
Richmond defeated William and Mary
18-7; Hence, Davidson is 16, William and
Mary 0. William and Mary beat Navy
6-0, and Notre Dame beat Navy 12-0;
hence Davidson is 10, Notre Dame 0.
The Irish whipped Army 21-0, which
Makes Davidson 31 points better than
the military school. Pittsburgh beat
Army 18-13, which makes Davidson 26
points better than the “Smoky City”

eleven.

Prospects Are Bright as

Five Lettermen Report
For—Basketball__Season

Two Games Are Scheduled With Char-
lotte Y. M.-C. A. Before’.
Christmas

17 GAMES SCHEDULED

4 Several Sophomores Showing Up Well

| in Early Practices

With the first game of the season a little
less than a week off, Coach Laird is work-
ing hard to round his basketball team into
fine shape. With the return of five letter-
men, prospects for the year seem very
bright. The lettermen returning are Wagner,
Holland, Boucher, Lafferty, and Captain
Peabody.

Coach Laird expects to have a very fast
and snappy team this year.. The center po-
sition will be held by Lee West, Mack Hol-
land, or Courtney Ross. The forwards will
be chosen from Lafferty, Harris, Manson,
Meyers, McClain, and Bernardo; guards
from Captain Peabody, Boucher, Wagner,
Bernard, and Dickerson.

Several members of last year’s Freshman
team_have been showing up well. Captain
Harris and Lee West have been doing fine
work at practice, also Rogers, Ross, Yel-
verton, and Bernardo. Frank Mock, trans-
fer from Rutherford Junior College, is also
in line for guard.

Two games are scheduled before the holi-
days, the first to be played here with the
Charlotte Y on December 13. This team is
better this year than usual, being composed
mostly of former college stars, including Ed-
wards, Neiman, Perser, and: Mallard. Mal-
lard is a former Mercer star and Edwards
a former Carolina center. A ‘teturn game
with this team will be played in ‘Charlotte
on December 20.

The schedule, with the exception of two
games which are pending, is:

Dec. 13—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at Davidson.

Dec. 20—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at. Char-
lotte.

Jan 5—Furman at Davidson.

Jan. 7—Carolina at Charlotte.

Jan. 9—Duke at Charlotte.

Jan. 30—Furman at Greenville, S. C.

Jan. 31—Wofford at Spartanburg, S. C.

Feb... 2—Roanoke College at Salem, Va.

Feb. 3—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.

Feb. 4—Lynchburg College at Lynch-
burg, Va.

Feb., 7—Duke at Durham.

Feb. 9—N. C. State at Davidson.

Feb. 11—Wofford, place pending (David-
son or Charlotte).

Feb. 14—Elon at Davidson.

Feb. 16—Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Feb. 17—N.’ C.. State at Raleigh.

Feb. 21—Lynchburg ‘College at Davidson.

Cornelius Boys Win
Midget Championship

The Cornelius Scouts won the state midget
football championship when they defeated
the Charlotte Cubs 7-0 last Friday. This is
the second time they have beaten the Cubs
this season, after’ having lost their first con-
ference game to them 6-0,

Besides beating the Cubs, they have de-
feated such conference teams as Statesville,
31-0, and Davidson, 25-0, compiling a total
of 88 points to their’ opponents’ 6, with a
total of six wins as compared with one loss.
They held the Mocksville High varsity to a
0-0 tie, and defeated the Kannapolis Midgets
14-7, both non-conference teams.

Negotiations are now being made with the
Charlottesville— Fivesto._play--for--the—na-
| tional championship.

| This team was organized two months ago
| by two Davidson men, George Gullette and
“Flash” Ormand, in connection with the
Y. M. C. A. work, and since then {ft has de-
veloped into a smooth working and hard
driving little eleven.

Best Blocker

Bruce Peabody, who won Tim Pharr’s
gold football for being the best blocker
on the 1932 Wildcat eleven.

Peabody Will Receive
Award for Blocking

Coaches Select Diminutive Back as
Best Blocker on Team

Bruce Peabody was awarded the gold foot-
ball donated by Rev. “Tim” Pharr, of Cass,
West Virginia, by virtue of being selected as

the best blocker on the 1932 football teatn.’

Peabody was selected by Coaches Newton
and McEver, and will be entitled to wear the
gold football with a raised “D” enameled in
red and black.

Rev. Pharr, the donor of the football, is
one of Davidson’s most interested alumni.
He graduated in the ciass of 1912, and while
in college played the position of blocking
back. He has promised to: make such an
award every year until the end of his life.

Peabody played defensive quarterback and
offensive halfback on this year’s team. Be-
cause of his blocking ability he was used
in this capacity almost entirely, and was sel-
dom called upon to carry the ball from
scrimmage. His returning of punts was also
an outstanding feature of his performance.
Peabody also proved to be the best place-

|ki¢ker on the team, converting his only try

for a field goal, as well as kicking several
points after touchdowns.

Despite his diminutive size, Peabody has
earned more than his share of athletic mofi-
ograms. When a Freshman, he earned nu-
merals in football, baseball, and basketball.
During his Junior year he won varsity let-
ters in the same sports. Since he showed un-
usual ability on the track at Camp Mc-
Clelland during the past summer, Peabody
will have a splendid chance to earn four
major letters this year.

Y. M. C. A. Ping-Pong

Tournament Started

During the last week or so much inter-
est has been aroused among the local ping-
pong fanatics by the annual tournament held
to determine the best player of that game.
This tournament is held each year by the
Y. M. C. A., and is played out on the tables
in the Y building, the winner receiving a
medal in recognition of his skill.

Last year the winner of the contest, out

.of -aJarge-number-of.tried_and_experienced

competitors, Freshman, “Judge”
Cathey.

The.tournament should be finished by next
week. Meanwhile, many and varied predic-
tions as to the final outcome are floating
around the campus among the ping-pong

fiends.

was a

Twenty-Four Letters Are

Given for Varsity Services

Intramural Boxing

To Be Started Here

Captain Pritchett to Instruct.a Boxing
Class After Holidays

An innovation in the athletic policy of Da-
vidson College is in the offing, and. should
materialize in the next few years. The new
sport which is just about to invade the Da-
vidson campus is the well-known and justly
famous art of self-defense, namely, boxing.
There has long been an unvoiced demand
for this sport existing in the student body.

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, instructor in
physical education arid varsity track coach,
will coach this new branch of sport. Cap-
tain Pritchett has gained quite a reputation
as a boxer in his own right. He obached
at the Woodberry Forest School in Orange,
Virginia, before coming to Davidson, and
turned out some exceptionally good teams.

Captain Pritchett will held a boxing class
beginning upon the resumption of college
after the Christmas holidays. For about two
weeks instruction and practice in boxing will
be held. After this time an intramural elim-
ination totrnament will be» held in all the
regulation weights to determine the cham-
pion in each of the various weights. The
regulation weights are 118, 126,.135, 145, 155,
165, light-heavyweight, and heavyweight.

For some time just intramural competi-
tion will be the course of events, but it is
highly possible that in a few years Davidson
will go into boxing in inter-collegiate cir-
cles, and a minor letter will be given in this
sport.

Due to the wrestling? team’s failure, to
succeed to any great extent in the cam-
paigns held in the past few years, there will
be no Freshman mat squad representing
Davidson this year. It is highly possible
that boxing will definitely replace wrestling
at Davidson. If this should come about, the
managers of the wrestling team would be
transferred to the boxing, maintaining their
original status. Letters would be awarded
on approximately the same basis.

Boxing isan innovation here, ‘and its suc-
cess depends entirely upon the attitude with
which the student body takes the new sport.
If it meets: with popular approval, and a
good bunch of men come out to try for the
team, it is more than probable that within
the course of a few years Davidson will
boast a crack fighting organization in box-
ing circles.

K. A.’s Defeat Sig Eps
For Volley Ball Crown

The Kappa Alpha fraternity won the inter-
fraternity volley ball elimination tournament
by defeating the Sigma Phi Epsilon team in
two straight games last Thursday afternoon
by scores of 15-11 and 15-9,

Victories over the Betas, Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon, and a bye advanced the winners to
the finals, while the losers worked their way
up by defeating the Pi Kappa Phis, the
T. U. O.’s, and Kappa Sigs.

For their victory the K. A.’s will receive
twenty points toward the fraternity athletic

trophy, while fifteen points will go to the

Sig Eps.

Wagner, Mills, and Captain Gardner
Earn Their Third Successive
Letters in Football

11 SENIORS HONORED

Thirty-one Freshmen Earn Numerals
in Football and Cross-Country

At a meeting of| the Athletic Council last
Monday. evening, twenty-four men were
awarded letters for services rendered in var-
sity football, twenty-three Freshmen were
awarded their class numerals for work in
Freshman football, and eight for work in
Freshman cross-country.

Three of the men awarded letters had
previously earned two and this year’s makes
their third successive letter in football. Cap-
tain Buddy Gardner, Jack Wagner, and Buck
Mills are the men who have earned three
letters on the gridiron. Y

Three men were awarded their letters
for their second time, each earning a letter
last year. The following are..the. two-letter
men in football: Parson Peabody, Dick
Whitfield, and Charley Pearce.

Of the sixteen men receiving letters for
the first time, seven of them were Sopho-
mores, four were Juniors, five were Seniors,
and two were awarded letters for football
managerships.

Following is a list of the men that re-
ceived letters: Gardner, Ulrich B., Decatur,
Ga, (Captain); Mills, Allen L., Statesville,
N. C.; Wagner, Jack M., Statesville, N. C.;

‘Peabody, Bruce, Charlotte, N. C.; Pearce,

Charles M., Plant City Fla.; Whitfield, R.
A., Hackettstown, N. J.; Hand, Carl, Lowell,
N. C.; Hutchins, Dewy M., Lexington, N. C.;
Mackorell John C., Hickory, N. C.; McEI-
rath, Percy, Bramwell, Va.; Morgan, James,
Albemarle, N. C.; Morris, Joe, Hattiesburg,
Miss.; Ogden Fred W., New. Orleans, La.;
Rives, Charles M., Greensboro, N. C.; Pot-
ter, A. J., Barium Springs, N. C.; West,
Julian, Barium Springs, N. C.; Willson, E.
B., Athens, Tenn.; Wingfield, George, Reids-
ville, N. C.

The following Seniors were awarded serv-
ice letters: Cannon, Eugene B., Roanoke
Rapids, N. C.; Fleagle, Fred B., Davidson,
N. C.; Flinn, Wm, B., Atlanta, Ga.; Clark,
Jerome B., Fayetteville, N. C.

The following men were awarded letters
for managership: Mebane, Allen W., Bur-
lington, N. C. (varsity manager); Ross, Ar-
thur, Ashboro, N. C. (Freshman manager).

The following Freshmen were awarded
their numerals for services rendered in
Freshman football: Brenizer, A. G., Burns,
W. W., Cathey, H., Clarke, M. H., Clark,
W. H., Cumbie, A.-M., Harris, J. R., John-
son, O. F., Johnston, J. B., Johnston, R. W.
Kaysel, J. L., Knox, J. W., Lee, J. N., Mat-
thews, E. R., Murray, G. B., Pearce, J. R.,
Pittman, P. C., Sanders, A. H., Slaughter,
E. F., Verble, Ira, Windham, C., Yarbrough,
B. R., Sears, Charles.

The following men were awarded numer-
als for work 6n the Freshmati cross-coun-
try track team: Foy, J: F., Frazier, E. N.,
Glass, J. H., Harlan, P. Y., Merchant, W. A.,
Shuford, Archie, Smith, C. G., Young,
Fields.

SEE THE... STAR DIRECT IDEUS |
Tailoring Display ae |
SENIORS---Dec. 1st will be the last day for you to | DAVIDSON
get measured for Blazers SHOP
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
tudent Representative _Factory Representative ale

We Are Prepared to Supply
Your Christmas Needs

NOW

