THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

&

a THE SPORTS PARADE sone

-3
*

DEPUTATION TO

’Cats Go to Charleston

To Encounter Bulldogs
Of The Citadel Saturday

Davidson Eleven Expected to Face
Strong Oppogition in Coming
Gri®*Contest

The Wildcat will leave its lair next Satur:

day afternoon to stalk down to Charleston,

F!down on the east coast of the Palmetto

State, and- there encounter. the Bulldog of
The Citadel.

Davidson and. The Citadelare
rivals of long standing, and the game is

expected to be a scrap from whistle to

whistle. The Cadets have a reputation for
! fight, similar to that accorded the Wildcats
lof Davidson, and the Flying Squadron of
['V. MT.

An improved V. M. I, eleven presented a| be shown by both teams.
stubborn forward wall against Davidson. last |

and some good football should

In the past few years the ’Cats have shown

Saturday at Lexington, Va. and held the). pit of superiority over ‘the teams represent-
there-| Last year,

Wildcats to a two-touchdown victory, jing the Ashley River institution.
by causing us ‘to Miss our guess on the out: | led by ‘the elusive “Buck” Mills,
come of the game. However, despite the | brought the stands to their feet with a brace
12-0 score, we think that Newton and Mc-| of 50-yard runs, the Wildcats defeated The
Evér sent a team on the field which played | Gitadell 14-7,
at least-a four-touchdown better gam® than paisa :
the Cadets played. |» This year the fleet-footed Mills is again
: : | wearing the Red and Black’ moleskins, and
| is aided by an array of pony backs, which
jincludes Pearce, Mackorell, Flinn, Fleagle,
| Wingfield, and Willson, to say nothing of
{such excellent blocking backs as Hutchins
|and Peabody. In the Wildcat line two Soph-
| omores of great merit, Morgan and Morris,
| hold down the flanks, and two_veteran cam-
| paigners, Wagner and Captain Whitfield,
| give the “They shall not pass” at the tackles.
| New talent at the guards is found in Rives,
Johnny Mackorell and Joe Wingfield, Mc-| and the 235-pound “Tubby” Hand, who las
Ever’s stellar Sophomore backs; furnished | proven a tower of strength in the Davidson
the fireworks for the game Saturday. The| forward wall.~At-center Coach Newton has
two kept V. M. I. players busy trying to} Percy MsElrath, who is ably taking the
get hold of them. Mackorell reeled off the | place of the injured tow-head, “Buddy” Gard-
longest run of the afternoon when he gal-} ner.
loped 43 yards in the first quarter. He made |

several other good gains, one of which net- | at the disposal of the Davidson coaches with
ted 11 yards.. Wingfield, who, incidentally.) Qich stars as Potter, West, Ross, Caton,

is the lightest man on the squad, chalked| Dickerson, Ogden, Howard, and Cannon,
up four long runs, which added 126 yards}

| sitting on the ‘sidelines just itching to get
to Davidson's yardage from scrimmage. into the fray.
Three ofyLittle Joe’s runs were punt returns| ;
of 20, 40, and 41 yards. The other was a} The Bulldogs have two great backs in
25-yard jaunt which ended in, Davidson’s) 5Ym™mes and’ Kings, not to mention Faulk-
jner and Jennings, who can also lug that
| leather in great style. Ed Mitchell, the Titan
|of the line, holding down the pivot position,
{has proved an insurmountable barrier for
| the other Citadel opponents, and should be
| very much in the way of the Wildcats. Clark,
star Bulldog flankman, will be out of the
{game due to. a broken leg suffered in the
| Florida imbroglio, and his absence will be
j greatly felt by the Charleston boys. Jen-
}nings and Quaterman will be remembered
asthe boys who caused a great deal of

| trouble for the Wildcats on Richardson
| year.

We base our opinian on the facts that
the Wildcats carried the ball within V.
M. I.’s 16-yard line no less than six
times and that the’ game was played in
V. M. I. territory almost entirely. Had
Vv. M. I’s line not improved so much,
we actually believe that the ’Cats would
‘have enjoyed at least a 25-0 victory.

A great amount of reserve strength is also

first score,

Tubby Hand, Davidson Sophomore
who alternates at the guard and tackle
position, received the thrill of a lifetime
Saturday when he intercepted a pass,
which had been blocked by Jack Wag-
ner, and ran for a touchdown. An-
other V. M. I. pass was intercepted by
Bruce Peabody, who carried the ball 40
yards before being downed. :

Dewey Hutchins, another Sophomore} Field last
back, who-has—earried-the-ball_on-few—oc- |
casions this season, had an 18-yard run to! ¢;
his credit Saturday. Because of his excel-|

lent blocking ability, Hutchins _is seldom | the attack. of Al Rogero”and his speedy
called upon to tote the ball, but Saturday he

Pd Mes. ‘Gators from Florida, 27 to 7. However,
showed that he could do it if assigned to. | Florida ‘has a great team, and this does not
: |in itself rate The Citadel below Davidson,
las the ’Cats tasted defeat in the opener, bow-
ing 13-0 before the Wade-coached Duke
Blue Devils. Davidson boasts a 7-0 victory
over Washington and Lee, and a 40-6 rout
lover the*highly-touted Wofford Terriers.

| Last Saturday they hopped V. M. L, 12 to 0,

The outstanding victory obtained by The
tadel is the 12-6 conquest of V. M. I. two
weeks ago. Last Saturday they fell before

Charley Pearce continued to’’get off
some beautiful punts in the V. M. I.
game. One of his boots Saturday was
good for 73 yards, and it was largely
due to his kicking that V. M. I. was
kept with its back to the wall all after-

noon ,and Consistently outplayed them through-

SEEEEEEEEee el |
aigaes | lout the game.
The Wildkittens gave a good account of | :

themselves Friday afternoon when_they de-
feated Wofford Freshmen, 21-6. Johnny
Pearce, little brother of Charley, furnished}
the thrills of the game by scoring the Kit-

Big Five Standings

tens’ first score with a 70-yard run. He, W. L. T. Pet.
scored another when he tucked Pittman’s|| Duke ____-_---1------ 1 0 0 1.000
pass under his arms. ide Ns OG, State.22-- == - 2 O20 ile ease
. —— '| Carolina __.._-------- (ied Wes eas
Next Saturday will mark the halfway mark | Wake Forest --__-_-- (: reel | eat y disdapel ss es
in the present football campaign. Davidson | Davidson ____-_-_--_- 0 1 #0 000

will play her fifth game by meeting the

who

Wildcat Quarterback

CRHNIN MIACHORELL - QUARTER

Johnny Mackorell, who is playing his
first year in the Davidson backfield, was
one of the stars in the Wildcat offense
Saturday against V. M. I. Mackorell
calls signals for the Davidson eleven.

Wildkitten Runners
Conquer Charlotte

The Davidson. Freshman Ne cunits
team on Friday afternoon won eight out of
twelve places to defeat the Charlotte High
School long distance runners over-a two-
mile stretch. The Wildkittens, led by Cap-
tain Frazier, Merchant, Shuford, and Glass,
who took first four places, respectively, had
a total of 23 points to 64 points for Char-
lotte. Earle Frazier captured first place and
his excellent time of ten minutes and twen-
ty-two-seconds hroke the college record of
ten minutes and forty seconds, which was
previously held by Rufu§ Morrow. This is
the second record Frazier has shattered
as he set a new cake race record two weeks
ago. Marsden, Charlotte’s chief threat,
could do no better than take fifth place.
The runners finished in the following order:
Frazier (D), Merchant (D), Shuford (D),
Glass (D), Marsden (C), Harlan (D), Young,
H. F. (D), Foy (D),.Morse (C), Haake
(D), Edwards,, R. (C), Edwards, C. (C).

Coach Whittle was greatly pleased with
the showing of his men and is looking for-
ward to a most successful year for his Wild-

| kitten cindermen.

The remaining meets scheduled are as
follows: Oct. 28, Duke Fresh at Durham;
Noy. 5, Guilford Fresh at Davidson; Nov.
12, Winston-Salem High at Davidson; Nov.
24, High Point High Jat Davidson.

Varsity Tennis Team
Beats Gastonia Club

On last Saturday, October 15, the, David-
son tennis team played and won their first
game of the year, defeating the Gastonia
Country Club team on their own courts. The
Wildcat racqueteers, consisting of Halver-
stadt, Lafferty, Myers, and Scott, did not
lose a single set in-eithet the doubles or
singles matches and did. tiot have to play
over ten games in any set.

In the singles: Halverstadt defeated Ryan,
6-2, 6-3; Lafferty defeated Wykoff, 6-2, 6-2;
Myers defeated Julian, 6-0, 6-1, and Scott
defeated Brown, 6-1, 6-1.

In the doubles: Myers and Halverstadt
downed Ryan and Wykoff, 6-0, 6-4; while

‘sult.

S. A. E.’s, Beta’s and
Pi K. A.’s Advance

Three games of. the intra-fraternity foot-
ball tournament have been played with the
result that the S. A. E.’s, Beta’s and Pi K.
A.’s have victories respectively over the Phi
Gam’s, kK. A.’s and the S. P. E.’s.

In the first game the S. A. E’s defeated
the Phi Gam’s by a 6-0 score. The only
touchdown of the game came on a_ pass
tossed from Harry Mixon to Jerome Clark
into the end zone, as

The Beta’s eliminated the K, A.’s in the
second game of the tournament by a two-
touchdown margin, Richardson ran the first
touchdown over from the five-yard line and
passed to Smyre for the second score.

The Pi K. A’s won a hard-earned game
from the S. P. E.’s by the slender margin
of ten yards. The two regular 15-minute
periods were played with neither team be-
ing able to seore. An extra 15-minute period
was played and again no score was the re-
It was then decided to give the ball
to each team for five minutes and decide
the game by yardage. The Pi K. A.’s won,
collecting 29 yards to the S, P, E’s 19!

Frazier Is Selected |
As Freshman Leader

Earle Frazier, who has: been performing
brilliantly on the Freshman cross-country
team this was recently honored by
his teammates: when he was chosen captain
for_the season, _Frazier_was—elected—at—a
meeting of thé team just before. the meet
with Charlotte High School.

Frazier, who was a shining light on the
track team at Oxford Orphanage last year,

year,

ances thus far, and within two. weeks he
has chalked up two college records to his
credit. After. setting a new Freshman cake
race record when he ran the 1.7 mile course
in 9:35.5 minutes, Frazier went on to set the
two-mile record in the Charlotte High
School meet by running the course in 10:22
minutes, This chipped eighteen seconds from
the record held by Rufus Morrow in 1930.

Lafferty
Brown, 6-2,

and Scott
6-4,,

This is probably the only match this team
will have this fall, the next being some time
in April.

downed Julian and

Davidson’s 1932
Opponents

DUKE 34, Maryland 0.
W, & L. 7, Kentucky 53.
WOFFORD 0, South Carolina ‘19.
CITADEL 7, Florida 27.

. CLEMSON 19, Erskine 0. a
N. C. STATE 0, WAKE FOREST 0:
CAROLINA 6, Georgia 6 (tie).

has been showing up. well in his perform-|

Pearce Leads Wildkittens to |
'21-6 Victory Over Terriers

Davidson Freshmen Combine Near-
Perfect Blocking With Aerial At-
tack to Defeat Wofford

With Johnny Pearce leading-the way with
his two touchdown jaunts, the Davidson
Freshmen gridders took, a 21-6 victory over
the little Terriers of Wofford last Friday in
Charleston. Cumbie scored once for the
Wildkittens on a pass from Burns, and
Pearce scored twice, once by the aerial route
and again on a scintillating 70-yard gallop
off tackle.

Davidson appeared to have the upper hand
throughout the contest, and only for a short
while near the close of the game did the
Wofford aggregation show any tricky play.
The younger generation of Terriers put on
a dazzling passing attack that placed the
ball on the Kittens’ two-yard stripe, but
here the thin red line held, and the ball
went over, The Wofford touchdown in the
first quarter was made on a pass, and no
really great offensive was shown by them
untif that last-quarter drive.

Pearce, Pittman and Burns Were outstand-
ing performers in the Davidson backfield,
and Captain Henry Cathey stood out in the
line. Hawes, Anderson and Milliken were
the best-the Wofford boys could offer.

After the early Wofford touchdown, Da-
vidson kicked off. Unable to gain, the Ter-
riers punted. On the first down Johnny
Pearse slid off tackle, and with perfect in-
terference was away for 70 yards and the
initial Davidson

touchdown, Pittman con-
verted from placement.
The second Davidson touchdown came

(Continued on page 6)

“You and I” Given to

_Charlotte Audience

The play, “You and 1,” by Philip Barry,
was presented in Charlotte last Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday nights by members of
the Little Theatre. The opening night found
a large crowd in attendance. The lovers of
the histrionic art spent a most enjoyable
evening as this light drama was being well
portrayed.

The play dealt with the old theme of love
and duty, with love, as it should, carrying
off the honors. The cast, including Miss
Celia Wadsworth, Mr. Lawrence Miller, Mrs.
Samuel Walker Brown, Mr. Harry Blaising,
Miss Virginia Deane, Mr. Frank Green, and
Mr. C. M. Hassell, presented the play in a
most creditable manner, avoiding the, usual
awkwardness of amateurs.

The maid “Etta,” as played by Miss Vir-
ginia Deane, furnished the comic relief. The
acting of Mr. Harry Blaising as “Maitland
White” and Mr. Lawrence Miller_as “Roder-
ick-White” was above the average.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Fice College ‘Men
Come Here”

u

115 W. 4th St., Charlotte

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
“The Original Sandwich Shop”

VISIT US

and

Davidson

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Bulldogs of The Citadel at Charleston, S. C.!

As for the outcome, we think Davidson will

have no great difficulty.in annexing another |
victory. The Citadel holds a 12-6 victory!
over V. M. I., while Davidson is just’ back},
with a 12-0 victory. Comparative scores
would indicate a one-touchdown victory for
the ’Cats. We, however, consider the fact
that Davidson should have beaten V. M. I.
by a greater score than 12-0, and also the
fact that the Bulldogs will be without the
_ services of Jeff Clark, their star end, who
broke his leg in the Florida game last Sat-
urday, and predict a three-touchdown vic-
tory for Davidson.

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

ae

~~ ——

117-GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT _

ii of bes

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

_A. M. MANSON

