THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

=

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

bn nF

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
EDWARD O. GUERRANT...---........-.-------- Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Bee Sotdnsud aces ced. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARDY. és Managing Editor
ALEXANDER SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON. Managing Editor
GIS ER WRSEA MSC LA cc ccccenccccccocsasseseecs. Maneging Editor
RSINONUET LC Sy Si ckddbccccdskadusnuedpuadege Athletic Editor

Exchange Editor
Associate Editor

usdee! ssociate Editor
ssociate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

HEMAN SONS. ucnccccabstccsnue Assistant Business Manager.

A. M
4. OU, MEBANE. ........2..02200022 Assistant Business Manager
hy WwW. W Assistant Business Manager
COME MURROW csbsncsvansassveuasuccs ves Subscription Manager
Wi gas I OH NSON See coos oa a ee Solicitor
i F. Solicitor
B Solicitor
ASCH SMANSONEssscciccupesuceceusneucccusucsuueuss Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD see coe President
ty Wi, “UA Wisuas se Ch bd batuacuducstuccusasassccauas Vice-President
red yyead. (0) C) 6) CC Te eee eee | Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B, B. TAYT.OR L. S. GAMBLE
G. E, BAILY R. E. LORRAINE
i E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. P, PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WAR W. T THOMPSON

J. A. HUNTER

APRIL 20, 1932

It is not by change of circumstances, but by
fitting our spirits to the circumstances in which
God has placed us, that-qwe can. be reconciled to
life and duty—F, W. Robertson.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The Davidsonian staff extends heartiest congratu-
lations to Bob McCallie and to the class of 1933 in.
selecting a man of such capability to edit the “Quips
and Cranks” for next year. This is a position of
great responsibility and we feel sure he will produce
an annual which will be a credit to Davidson, the
class of '33, and himself.

——D
Now that the Bowery Ball has come and gone, the
next thing to occupy our interest will be the final
examinations and commencement.
D.
This spring, Ben Eastman, a Junior at Stanford
University, has broken the world’s record in both the
440 and 880-yard runs. He lowered the 440-yard run
by: a full second and the 880-yard run by three-tenths
of a second. Those members of the Davidson student
body who plan to attend the Olympic Games in Los
Angeles this summer will probably witness many
world’s records broken if Eastman and others live up
to advanced predictions.

D.
This next week the Davidson student body will
have the privilege of hearing four of the most out-
standing men in the South for the Spring Services.
In the past these services have been very popular with
the students, and this year should Prove no exception.
D.
Both the varsity and Freshman track teams per-
formed nobly in their decisive victory over the cinder
«path men from V. P. I. Fleagle, Flinn, Brannon, and
others have done exceptional work all year.
D
From all reports Monk Younger and “Tex” Tilson
are doing very well at V, P. 1, and both are rapidly
becoming very popular with the cadets.
D
Those men who were fortunate enough to see the
tennis matches at Pinehurst last week report a cham-

Pionship brand of play by Allison, Vines, and a few
others.

D.
NEW REGIME

In assuming the leadership of a newspaper for
the first time, it is generally conceded: that the
new editor shall set forth the policy of the paper
for the coming year in the first editorial. This is
not as important in the case of The Davidsonian
as with other newspapres, because the policy is
eg eedsmentally changed from one year to the
next.

In taking over the reins, however, we do sense
an overwhelming Tesponsibility accompanied by
some uneasiness when we glance back on the ex-
cellent record set by editors in the past. A great
trust has been placed-upon the new staff to per-
form the mission of presenting to the student
body a newspaper containing all: the news obtain-
able and it is only with the co-operation of the
united student body and all its various organiza-
tions that this end can be accomplished.

No radical changes will be made in the make-
up of this paper, but between now and the end
of the college year we shall change’ the paper to
some extent in each issue until the best combina-
tion of factors is obtained. Some alterations will
be made on the editorial and possibly other pages
in the paper from time to time, and we hope the

student body will be patient until the final adjust- ’

ments are made. We realize that the primary func-
tion of any newspaper is to present to its readers
correct information as quickly as possible and also
to include other items in the paper which tend to
make it more readable and interesting. It is with
this view in mind that we take up ‘our task and

OPEN FORUM

What Do You Think?

CAMPUS CHATTER

A military band fills the hot June afternon with
its blatant martial music: the President speaks,
Harding is eulogized with a eulogy that is well-
nigh. an apology and a magnificent memorial is
gloriously dedicated. Nothing of the material
manifestation of our great American civilization
is lacking.

Upon the heights_of St. Albans, above Wash-
ington, blessed by quiet summer breezes blowing
up from the flats of the Potomac, stands another
tomb, that of Woodrow Wilson. The very sim-
plicity of its structure and the religious quietness
of its surroundings pronounce a silent obloquy
upon that officious gathering which meets to me-

’ morialize his successor.

The only apology needed at this tomb is the
apology of his followers whom he left behind, and
who have so pitifully failed in their duty to per-
petuate his high ideals and noble efforts. No
apology is needed for.a public record so spotless
that even the most maliciously instigated ant
painstaking investigation on the part of his ene-
mies revealed nothing but the fact of his honesty
to the people, diligence toward his duty, and pa-
triotism toward. the nation which was his and
which he served.

Our last annual was dedicated to Wilson,
ostensibly because he once attended college here,
but if we had searched the world over, using as
a measuring rod the high ideals which are or
should be the goal of every Davidson man, a more
suitable choice could not have been made.

To be frank, Davidson most probably had no
crucial effect on the life of Woodrow Wilson.

‘ However, in that one youthful year that he spent

on our campus there is no doubt in my mind but
that day by day he grew in mind, character, and
body, and in favor with God and man.
Gentlemen, we may be entirely unconscious of
these high influences that prevail here, but let us,
during the years to come, realize and endeavor, if
possible, to uplift that omnipresent thing called
Davidson. It will do honor to ourselves, our school,
and to her most distinguished son, Woodrw Wil-
son. Let this, since no other is in prospect, be a

memorial to his name.
4

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Salem

The Salemite gives two ideals, “My Ideal Man” by a
woman, and “My Ideal Woman” by a man. We will
copy excerpts from each.

“My Idehl Man”

“I’ve never seen my ideal man, except in day dreams.
In that way I see him almost every day. Some day, I
believe I will actually seé him in person, and when I do,
then I can tell more about my ideal man.

“The way he looks in all my day dreams, he has a
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde personality. He must be able
to change at will in conformance with my moods. He
must be a gentleman, preferably the Theodore Roosevelt
type of gentleman.

“This ideal man of my dreams is of necessity athletic
in type and in physical build. His hair can. be blonde
and curly, black and straight, or anything else, except—
gone. His eyes also are immaterial, just so he can see
out of them, and look into mine with them.

“He must have two things principally—ambition, and
a good disposition.

“As to scholarship, I can’t imagine my own ideal being
a scholar, unless he is that way without being a book-
worm. If he is, so much the better, but I shouldn’t care
if he never made higher than a ‘B’ average.

“One of.the most essential qualities of my ideal man
is that he must be likable to other men. If he is extreme-
ly popular with women, I’d be rather afraid to risk him.
If the other men whom he knows like him, that’s his rec-
ommendation to me.” —

“My Ideal Woman”

“No, sir, she don’t have to be any mental prodigy—
my ideal woman. She must know how to dress, but not in
a manner that will attract undue attention.-She doesn’t
necessarily have to be beautiful, but she must be the type
that you can look at for some time without getting tired.

“She must be adaptable, and should be able to take care
of herself in various types of company. She must be un-
usually careful whom she likes, and I would prefer, of
course, that the chosen one be myself. She must be good
enough to be good, and just bad enough to make you
believe she could be bad if she wanted to but doesn’t
want to. :

“My ideal woman-should have ideals. They must not
be the kind of ideals she can go around talking about
constantly, but the kind which actually stand out in her
character and which are not changeable with her moods.
While speaking of moods, the ideal woman in my con-
ception’ must never let her companions know just the
nature of that mood, but must try to be her own little
self in spite of adversity or triumph.

“As a student, my ideal woman does not need to aver-
age ‘A-plus,’ but she should seldom let her average fall
below a ‘B.’, She must be mentally awake.

“My ideal woman must be morally sound. To be thus,

we will strive to the best of our ability to bring
this about throughout the coming year.

In order to more truly reflect.the life on the
campus we intend to devote one column to the
student body in the form of an open forum, This
is one way in which anyone in the student body
may express his thoughts, and we shall be. more

than,,pleased to publish any articles given. to us *

which we deem advisable to print.

Joseph Leiter died in Chicago several days ago. Though
sixty-three years old at the time of his death, he is
chiefly remembered for his daring speculation at the age
of twenty-nine, when he tried to corner all of the wheat
in the United States. Before the gigantic scheme col-
lapsed his operations had swallowed up from ten to twelve
million dollars which he inherited from his father, Levi
Zeigler. Leiter, pioneer Chicago merchant, as well as
seven million dollars in “paper profits.’ The few mil-
lions involved in his wheat operations seemed staggering
sums at the time, but in the light of other deals which
have come along in later days they do not seem so
large.

Freedom of the human race from two of its greatest
enemies, pneumonia and tuberculosis, through the use
of vaccines now in the experimental stage, was forecast
in Dallas, Texas, by Dr. John A. Kolmer, internationally
known immunologist and pathologist, in an address be-
fore a meeting of the Southern. Clinical Society in
Dallas.

“It will be from two to five years before a final state-
ment can be made relative to the tuberculosis vaccine,
but the results obtained during two years of experi-
mentation are of a promising nature,” he said.

The tuberculosis vaccine, developed by Drs.«Calmette
and Guerin of France, has been used to a great extent in
Europe for the past two years and to some extent in
both New York and Philadelphia.

Under the experimental system the vaccine is adminis-
tered to children in a gelatin capsule soon after birth.
The bacilli contained in the vaccine are alive, but almost
harmless, and through the administration of the bacilli
the child builds up immunity.

The vaccine against pneumonia was developed by Dr.
Kolmer and his associates in their Philadelphia labora-
tories. Experiments with the pneumonia vaccine are still
incomplete, and Dr. Kolmer declined to make any state-
ment other than that results with rabbits and monkeys
in his laboratories indicated that physicians soon will be
able to immunise children against the disease.

“I have no desire to create a false hope on the part of
the public, but if our experiments continue to be as suc-
cessful as they have been during the last two years, indi-
cations are that children can be immunised against pneu-
monia,” he said.

Reports from Moscow state that the Soviet govern-
ment gradually intends to disband the huge “grain fac-
tories” like the 200,000-acre wheat ranch. The grain fac-
tories are said to have proved’a fiasco.

The reasons for the contemplated change in the Bol-
shevik agrarian policy, the reports said, are largely eco-
nomic. Party leaders are said to have discovered that it
is more practical to combine stock and grain raising than
to have the two closely related branches of agriculture
separated by sometimes hundreds of miles overland.

The damage from insect pests on the big grain farms

last year was reported tenfold that of smaller farms, be-
cause there was no way of -checking the spread of the
pests, especially rust and mildew, once they got started
in a field of many thousand acres.

Another factor in the decision was the lack of trans-
portation facilities on the already broken-down railroads.
Fodder and straw had to be transported from the grain
farms to the stock farms, while fertilizer and meat had
to be transported from the stock farms to the grain
sovhozes.

Business relations between the Grain Trust and the —

individual cattle, hog, and poultry trusts were none too
cordial, though under the direction of one and the same
government. Due to sharp business practices, employees
on grain farms are said to have gone for months without
a bit of meat while on the other hand, thousands of head
of cattle died of starvation for want of fodder during
the winter.

The government’s losses from large-scale farming are
said to run into the millions and hundreds of Inilttons
of rubles. More than sixty officials of the Grain Trust
are reported under arrest for having recommended the
grain factory system, although they were backed by a
number of high-priced foreign experts.

I would be disappointed if she were a prude. I would
want her to be the kind of a girl who acknowledges her
religious nature, and she should recognize that there is
a Supreme Power which guides her very existence.”

Converse

The annual May Day at Converse will be celebrated °

on April 30, which is Saturday week. This is always a
beautiful spectacle and this will be no exception to the
rule. Davidson boys will probably be “thumbing” down
there in droves as there are many attractioris down at
Converse.

Auburn
Final dances at Auburn will be May 13 and 14 with
Weede-Myer and his ever-popular dance orchestra fur-
nishing the music.

V. M. I.

Here is the All-American Radio Team as picked by
a poll sent out by the Music, Corporation of America.
There was a tight race between Guy Lombardo and Ben
Bernie for captaincy:

Coon-Sanders _-- Left End
Vincent Lopez a Left Tackle
George Olsen Left Guard
Ted Weems Center
Guat Armheim cos! oo) ols Right Guard
Rred; “Waring. 2.222222... Right Tackle
Rudy Vallee ; Right End
Guy Lombardo -_-.-.-.--.------- Quarterback
Ben Bernie Lefe Half
Wayne King Right Half
Paul Whiteman Fullback

Following in the footsteps of other great newspapers
throughout the country, The Davidsonian has decided to
have a Winchelljzed column all of its own. This is our
introduction to our scandal-loving public. O! Kay Da-

vidson.

Well, boys, the old Bowery (Brewery) Ball has
came and went. And what a time! Whata Time! It
was the high spot of the year in the form of enter-
tainment. Girls from everywhere, and so fair to look
upon, and how we love it, and they! A few side-
lights on the brawl were picked up by this writer, and
among the most prominent is that the music of Bryce
and his boys was all right, and when they got right
on “Tiger Rag,” well, you can have Lomago and
Vallee if you want them, but the local windjammers
certainly get my vote for that old masterpiece of
hotcha music.

Well, even in a good upright community like Davidson,
we can’t keep our of politics. Our own Dr. J. M. Mc-
Connell is going to run for the State Senate. A rather
facetious class in Freshman History got out of a writ
by calling the senatorial aspirant Senator, upon his be-
lated arrival to his first period class. It is rumored that
the class in History 1A is going to be his “Tammany
Hall’ organization. He has supplied them with soap
boxes, and nickel cigars with high-class bands on them,
and is preparing to send them out to make stump
speeches in‘ the near future. The co-eds will have their
part in it, too.

I see that all the members of the abnormal psy-
chology class that took an inspection trip of the
“looney bin” up at Morganton have returned, and are
once more in our midst. I'll believe most anything

now.

A. bit of local scandal is that, person or. persons un-
known let out a scream about midnight every night.
The yell, which is particularly blood-curdling, comes from
the first floor of East, and is decidedly disturbing, to the
inhabitants of that dormitory. Here’s a chance for some
of these pseudo-detectives the student body appears to be
burdened with.

One of our most prominent and promising athletes
recently suffered an injury to his little finger. It might
be of intergst to note that he hasn’t held a decent bridge
hand since.

Now “Battleship” has invaded the Davidson campus,
and in every imagineable place, from the back room
of Stetson “D” to the fraternity court groups may
be seen indulging in this pastime. Ed McCall recently
downed Buck Mills for the championship of the sec-
ond floor of Georgia. Mills has challenged for a re-

_ turn match in the near future.

Well, I notice that the president is off on another tour
of the country. He and Lindbergh are the most famou
“good-will” tourists. :

Judging from some of the sour expressions noticed
around the campus, I don’t believe that some of the
last reports went over so big with the faithful pro-
vider back home.

The tennis team, returning from a fairly successful
southern trip, had the misfortune of’ having a wreck.
With the exception of a few bruises and cuts, they ap-
peared in good shape, however, and took the courts Sat-
urday to turn back the University of Richmond, 8-1.

Many of the local tennis enthusiasts took advan-
tage last week of an opportunity to see “Big Bill”
Tilden, the old maestro, put on a tennis exhibition
at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. He
still has a number of tricks left, and displayed all in
his repertoire for the Davidson fans.

Maurice Chevalier, appearing here last week in “One
Hour With You,” created quite a sensation. The show
was one of the most entertaining. of the year.

The approaching R. O. T. C. inspection isn’t appe-
tizing to many of the students afflicted with that
course of study. Rifles are being slicked up, rifle
numbers memorized, and field maneuvers rehearsed,
so that the young soldiers can sh ow the government
how they do it. The advice of the Colonel is that
you'd better be there, as cutting is liable to have
much more disastrous consequences than a cut card
or a make-up drill.

> )
me

“HAVE FAITH; GO FORWARD!”

Thomas A. Edison, oe of the world’s greatest men,
after 84 years of a full and energetic life, gave to
the world’s largest audience, over the radio last
June, what proved to be his final public utterance.
His words make a most powerful sermon.

The message was spoken at a time when banks
were continuing to go to the wall, when unemploy-
ment was steadily increasing, when sales of all kinds
were being held and many stores were cutting prices
to the limit, with little or no profit. Pessimistic state-
ments were the rule.

What should sich a man say at such a time?
Here are his words: '

“My message to you is to be courageous! I have
lived a long time. I have seen history repeat itself
again and again. I have seen many depressions in
business. Always America has emerged from these
stronger and more prosperous. Be as brave as your
fathers were before you. Have faith! Go. forward!”
