THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Bulletin

Published by the College

Entered as second-class matter, December 2,
1922, at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C.,
under Act of Congress, August 14, 1912.

PUBLISHED EVERY MONTH

Ernest Milton _-.-Editor

AUGUST 23, 1932

THE AUGUST BULLETIN

Ordinarily, The Davidson College Bulletin is
issued-as a folder, and is usually sent to the
alumni of Davidson and to ministers of the
Southern Presbyterian Church. -The adminis-
tration, however, decided that they wanted to
make the August issue considerably larger, and
to make it appealing to new and old students,
as well as to those who generally receive it.
With these three things in mind, this bulletin
has been_prepared. And in the vernacular of
many broadcasters, “Here
like it.”

‘tis; we hope you

—The Editor.

WHAT IS A COLLEGE FOR?

As we enter upon a new college year it will
help us to get our bearings if we will frankly
face one or two central questioris, “What is a
college trying to do for its students? What
are students trying to do for themselves by
coming to college? Different people. would
probably give different answers to these ques-

tions. I will jot down a few of the salient

things which a college is trying to do for its
students,

First of all, a college is trying to store up
the minds of its students. with a’ great deal
of valuable information concerning ourselves
and the world in which we live and concerning
the present and the past. At the same time, a
college seeks to put its students into touch
with the best thought ofthe past. There can
be no hope for progress unless each generation
acquaints itself with the best in the past and
makes that a stepping stone to. higher things.

In the second place, a college is trying to
teach its students to think. Not long ago I
Tan across this paragraph from Wendel Phil-
lips: “Lord Bacon, as he takes his proud course
down the centuries, may lay one hand con the
telegraph and’ the other on the steam engine
and say, ‘These are mine for I taught you
how to think.’” In the last analysis ° thought
rules the world. Every calling in life is look-
ing for men who have learned how to think.

A recent graduate of Davidson College who
went to New York to secure a position gave
it-as his opinion that the only college honor that
avails anything in seeking for a Position in New
York is a Phi Beta Kappa key. He did not
say that because he had one but because he did
not. When I asked the head of a great cor-
poration which employs a great many college
men what kind of men he was looking for he

promptly replied: “Men who have learned to
think.”

A third thing which a Christian college is
trying to do is to develop in its students Chris.
tian personality. We are born with a certain
type of personality, but it can be cultivated.
After all, personality is the most powerful
thing in the world. Men accomplish more by
what they are than by what they say or do.
Personality is developed by our studies and by
the impact of other personalities.

Having given in this brief way my 2wn an-
swer to the question as to what a college is
for, let me quote two great university fresi-
dents who have answered the question in their
own splendid way.

Recently the president of Boston Universizy
said: “A-truly liberal education will discipline
the mind, train and sharpen the wits, furnish
the educated man with the tools of modern
culture, including the mastery of at least one
modern language and a knowledge of the sci-
ences. To be educated today a person should
know something about almost everything and
almost_everything about<something, A true lib-
eral. education will give important place to the
spiritual and religious factor that gives mean-
ing and value and.interpretation to life.”

.In his opening address laste year, President
Angell of Yale said: “The purpose of the lih-
eral college is to teachimen to think ahd thus
to set them-free in the world of thought. and
conduct, acquainting them, as far as may be,
with the great germinal ideas which have been
bequeathed by.the past, and upon which our
culture and civilization rest.”

In order that the. student may get all this and
more out of his college course there must be
the closest kind of co-operation between’ the
student and the professor. Education is a co-
operative process. If the student does not co-
operate he will receive no education. The stu-
‘dent will not get the finest out of college life

(Continued on page 4)

President Walter L. Lingle

Alumni Deaths

SELECTION OF ASSISTANTS .

on

(Continued from page 1)
Norman, Key West, Fla., and Odi Casali,
Welch, W. Va.

Physics: W. L. Holshouser, Blowing ‘Rock;
J. B. Rice, Richmond, Va.; J. W. Lee, Ron-
ceverte, W. Va.; C. E. Bettis, Morristown,

‘Tenn., and Ansley Watson, Anderson, S. C.

Bible: M. R. Pope, Talladega, Ala.; W. A.
Pate, Pembroke; Henry F. Nichol, Wilming-
ton; W. T. Thompson, Jr.,. Richmond, Va.;
W. L. McKeithen, Aberdeen, and E. O. Guer-
rant, Pasadena, Calif.

History: E. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.;
W. M. Rachal, Low Moor, Va.; D. M. Mc-
Connell, Chester, S. C.; S. J. Bryant, Jr.,
Bramwell, W. Va.; J. T. Drake, Port Gib-
son, Miss.

Chemistry: Paul F. Brown, Jr., Atlanta,
Ga.; R. H. Baker, Jr., Mooresville; E. L.
Powell, Mobile, Ala. and Avery Patton,
Greenville, S. C.

Political Science: D, S. Currie, Jr., Park-
ton, and W. W. Seymour, Sanford.

Economics: W. F. Mullis, Martinsburg, W.
Va., and W. C. Thompson, Round Pond,
Maine.

English: T. M. Davis; Waxhaw; J. W.
West, Barium, Springs; W. R. Morrow, Jr.,
High Point; E. W. Shackelford, Durham,
and W. E, McNair, Atlanta, Ga.

Psychology: W. M. Thompson, Richmond,
Va.; J. G. Womble, Davidson, and J. C. Cal-
houn, Laurinburg.

Philosophy: J. E. Richards, Liberty Hill,
SiG

Biology: E. S. Brannon, Rome, Ga., and J.
K, Harrington, Red Springs.

Spanish: E. J. Humphrey, Wilmington.

German: F. H. Scott, Holyoke, Mass., and
C. M. Wildman, Ojus, Fla.

French: Madison’ Armistead, Weldon; F.
P. Harrison, Mount Ulla, and W. H. Coble,
Douglas, Ga.

Business Administration: Geo. C. Neal,
Ruffin; H. D. Cashion, Davidson, and W. H.
Jetton, Davidson.

Education: F, L, Elvery, Tampa, Fla.

ORIENTATION PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)
Tuesday, Sept. 6th

9:00 a. m. to 5:00 ‘p. m., Registration.

7:30 p: m., Devotional exercises, led by Paul
F. Brown, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., president of the
Y. M.C. A. i)

“Ideals in College Life,” by“Dr. J. R. Mc-
Gregor, Lexington, N: C.

Wednesday, Sept. 7th
8:30 a. m.

Devotional exercisés led by Rev. H. M. Mof-
fett, D.D., pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

“Student Scholarship,” Dr. J. M. McConnell,
dean of the faculty.

“Use of Time in College,” Prof.
Fleagle, of the Spanish department.

“Honor System at Davidson,’ Jerome B.
Clark, Jr., of Fayetteville, president of student
body.

F. K,

2:15 p. m.
“College Regulations,” Dr, M. E.- Sentelle,
dean of students.
“Campus Organizations,” Sam S. Wiley, ex-
ecutive secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
7:30 p. m.
“Handling of Money and Care of Property,”
Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson.
“What Davidson Should Mean to a Student,”
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson.

Seminary Head

—Courtesy The Atlanta Journal
REV. J. MCDOWELL RICHARDS, '22

29-Year-Old Alumnus Now
Heads Columbia Seminary

Rev. J. McDowell Richards, ’22, Sig-
nally Honored After Brilliant
Career. One of Youngest
in Country

Rev. J. McDowell Richards, 1922 graduate
of Davidson, has accepted the presidency of
Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur,
Ga., succeeding the late Rev. R. T. Gillespie,
D.D., ’04, and thus becomes one of the young-
est, if not the youngest, seminary head in the
United-States. At the time of his election,
Mr. Richards was 29 years of age, and ranks
with several prominent educators of America
who assumed the presidencies of their institu-
tions at the age of 30 years.

The new seminary“head is a native of David-
son, and is the son of Rev. C. M. Richards,
D.D., ’92, for many years local pastor and
now a member of the Davidson faculty. He
completed a brilliant record as an undergradu-
ate at Davidson in 1922, and as a climax to his
work in the classroom and extra-curricula ac-
tivities, he was selected as a Rhodes scholar,
permitting him to study several years at Ox-
ford University, in England.

Mr. Richards has also studied at Princeton,
and obtained his bachelor of divinity degree
from the institution of which he has been made
president. After graduation from the seminary,
he did home mission work in the mountains of
North Georgia, with headquarters at Clarkes-
ville, and-last~summer he accepted a call to
the First Presbyterian Church of Thomasville,
Ga. He made an excellent record at Thomas-

(Continued on page 4)

‘}his 69th birthday.

Editor’s Note: With one or two excep-
tions, the alumni deaths that are merely
listed below, have been reported in full on
the alumni page of The Davidsonian. Write-
‘ups of deaths below are of alumni who have
died since the last issue of the college paper
was published.

1871—Matthew, Henry Wooten, of Clayton,
died January 11, 1932.

1873—Dr. James Mendenhall Dunlap, of An-
sonville, died February 14, 1932.

1877—William Flagg McQueen, of Morven,
died April 26, 1932.

1879—Alva Connell Springs, of Charlotte,
died February 12, 1932.

1885—Sydney Thompson Dupuy, of Marion,
Ky., died February 16, 1932,

1886—Joseph Chandler Morris, of New Or-
leans,:La., died April 9, 1930.

—John Espy Watts, of Itasca, Texas,

died April 23, 1932,

1899—Alfred William Brown, of Charlotte,
died January 18, 1932,

1901—Donald Matheson Eaves, of Union, S.
C., died December 17, 1931.

1902—Rev. Robert Thornwell Coit, D.D., died
in Asheville May 12, 1932.

1904—Dr. Peter McLean, of Laurinburg, died
March 22, 1932.

1909—Rev. Randall Alexander McLeod, of
Maxton, died January 5, 1932.

1910—Dr. Robert Francis Flowe,; of Kannapo-
lis, died April 30, 1932.

1913—Ernest Heap Graham, of Goldsboro,
died March 10,1932. }

1919—Dr. Manley A. Siske, of Kings Park,
N. Y., drowned October 20, 1931.

-1920—John W. Pope, Jr., of New York, died
November 21, 1931.

1923—Dan..Alexander_Ledbetter, of -Ander-
son, S. C., died February 3, 1929.

71924—Robert Polk Long, of New York, died

April 5, 1932.
1928—Alfred Shorter Caldwell, III, of High
Point, died February 16, 1932.
1931—Preston B. Johnston, of Benson, died
January 25, 1932.

J. Lee Sloan, '84

James Lée Sloan, 1884 alumnus of Davidson,
died at his home in Davidson on August 12th,
At the time of his death
he was postmaster at Davidson, in’ which ca-
pacity he had served for the past six years,
Prior to that, he was mayor of Davidson for
25 consecutive years, and resigned from the
mayorship.to accept the postmastership appoint-
ment.

Mr. Sloan was one of the organizers and
was wice-president of the Bank of Davidson,
was secretary and treasurer of the Linden and
Delberg Cotton Mills. He was a large prop-
erty owner in Davidson, and was connected
with numerous business enterprises. He was

born and reared in this section and has spent
all of his life in this vicinity.
Hugh Neisler, ’25

Hugh Neisler, 1925 Davidson alumnus, and
native of Kings Mountain, died in the  Presby-
terian Hospital in Charlotte on July 19th, after
a week's illness. Mr. Neisler was born and
reared in Kings Mountain, and after attending
Davidson he took a course in textile engineer-
ing at N. C. State College, and at the time of
his untimely death at 30 years of age he was
one of the youngest cotton executives in the

—Courtesy The Charlotte Observer
HUGH NEISLER, '25

State. He was manager of the Pauline Mill
of the group owned by his family: K

Mr. Neisler was one of the Neisler children
who this spring established a $5,000 memorial
to their father and mother. Among the sur-
vivors are four brothers, all of whom are alumni
of Davidson, C. E. Neisler, 16; Paul M. Neis-
ler, 719; Joe Neisler, ’22, and Hunter Neis-
ler, ’28.

Dr. B. F. Wilson, '84

Rev. Benjamin Franklin Wilson, D.D., an
1884 Davidson graduate, died’ at his home in
Harrisonburg, Va., on May 24th. He had been
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in
Harrisonburg for 27 years, and was made pas-
tor-emeritus about a year ago, when he be-
came Bible instructor at Harrisonburg, State
Teachers’ College. He was 69 years of age.

The deceased Was born near Sumter, S. C.,
and entered Davidson from Mayesville, S. C.
He obtained his master’s degree from David-

(Continued on page 4)

The College Library

