“WAKE FOREST
JINX BROKEN

he Mavidsontan

Alenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas

‘PHI BETA KAPPA TO
HOLD INITIATION

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 30, 1932

No. 12

WILDCATS

C(

7-0 IN

THRILL

Phi Beta Kappa Will
Hold Initiation Mon.

Six Scholastically Prominent Students
Will Réceive High Honors as
Initiates on Monday

DR. J. S. WILSON SPEAKER _

Six Notable Alumni Also to Be Initi-
: ated December 5th

On the evening of Monday, December 5th,
at 7:15 o'clock, the Phi Beta Kappa initia-
tion ceremony will take place, at which time
six alumni and six outstanding Seniors will
be initiated into the oldest and largest Greek
letter fraternity in America.

The names of the Seniors who have been
distinctly honored and who have accepted
the bids to enter this honorary circle are:
P. F. Brown, W. F. Mulliss, D. M. McCon-
nell, W. E. McNair, E. C. Bettis, and A.
Patton. The names of the prominent alumni
who will be initiated are: Prof. H. B. Over-
cash, class of 1915, now professor of biology
in Hampden-Sidney College; Mr. F. L. Jack-
son, class of 1905, treasurer of Davidson Col-
lege; Dr. E. H. Sloop, class of 1897, of Cross-
nore School, Crossnore, N. C.; Dr. S. T. Mc:
Cloy, class of 1918, professor of history, Duke
University; Dr. J. W. Clark, class of 1918,
physician of Philadelphia, Penn.; Rev. La-
vens Thomas, class of 1918, professor in the
Candler School of Theology, Emory Uni-
versity, Georgia.

Immediately folfowing this ceremony, the
public address will be made in Chambers
Auditorium by Dr. James Southall Wilson, of
the University of Virginia. Dr. Wilson is a
former member of the Phi Beta Kappa sen-
ate, is editor of the Virginia Quarterly, and
has a national reputation as a distinguished
scholar and an excellent speaker.

Following the address, the usual banquet
will be held at a place to be announced later
by th® banquet committee. A charge of a
dollar a plate will be made for the supper.
This charge is remitted according to the
usual custom to all new initiates.

Much Spirit Shown
in Final Pep Meeting
Talk by Mr. Joe Johnston, Shirt-Tail

Parade, and Bonfire Are Main
Features

’

The last pep meeting of the season was
held last Wednesday night in Shearer Hall
preceding the annual Davidson-Wake Forest
Thanksgiving Day classic. Due to the change
of the supper hour the time of the meeting
was a little mixed up, and it was -conse-
quently rather slow in starting; however,
after it did gain full headway, much spirit
was shown by the students and the old ri-
valry with the Demon Deacons was thor-
oughly aroused. ;

After several yells and songs the Senior
members of the football squad, who were
present, were called down to the front and
each was asked to say a word or two. Mr.
Joe Johnston, of Barium Springs, who has
been a loyal supporter of Davidson College
ever since he was a fighting Wildcat here
himself, was the principal speaker of the
meeting. By his short talk, Mr. Johnston
not only instilled spirit and hope into. the
student body and the team, but also gave
them both some excellent advice. Follow-
ing Mr. Johnston, Dr. Lingle, president of
the college, spoke a few words. Professor
Foreman, professor of Bible at the college
and who has made the talk at the last three
Wake Forest pep meetings, was also asked
to ‘say something.

Immediately after the meeting in Shearer
a shirt-tail parade, headed by the band,
formed just outside, which zigzagged across
the campus, finally ending up in front of
the Chambers Building. Here~several* more
yells were given and then the students went
in a body to the Freshman field. A large
bonfire was blazing by the time the crowd
arrived at the field, around which a snake
dance was first formed and then after sev-
eral more yells and songs which were con-
cluded by “O Davidson,” the crowd began
to break up.

Phi Society Enjoys
Instructive Program

Discussions of Current Events Com-
bined With Humorous Debates
Form Most-Enjoyable Lit-
erary Meeting

Avery interesting program was enjoyed
by members and visitors at the meeting of
the Philanthropic Literary Society Tuesday,
November 29. The society was called to
order, and several useful remarks were made
by Stuart Noblin, the new president.

A three-minute summary of the recent
conference between Governor Roosevelt and
President Hoover was given by S. F. Marsh,
revealing much of importance, relating to
the present economic and political situation.
Foreign conditions were vividly pictured in
a three-minute summary of the momentous
Hitler-Hindenburg conference in Germany.
This topic, which so lately supplied the head-
lines of the world, was the very excellently
presented subject of Felix Gee.

Following was a very interesting debate,
Resolved: That Davidson should be co-edu-
cational. Siding in favor of harboring the
shy sex were J. S. McMullen and W. C.
Neill, while R. W. Johnson and J. C. Alex-
ander took the puritanical viewpoint. Many
laughs and blushes were brought forth by
this most embarrassingly funny match of
wits.

of exceeding interest was the next item,
an original essay written and read by Dale
Jones. This feature was an outgrowth of
a recent plan for the society to incorporate
into its program not only speaking and de-
bating, but literary composition as well.

Completing the society’s scheduled pro-
gram was a most amusing extemporaneous

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Richards Speaks
For Sunday Vespers

“The Game of Football and the Game
of Life” Was Subject of
© Talk

“Our speaker tonight, Dr. McDowell Rich-
ards, is the president of Columbia Theolog-
ical Seminary in Decatur, Ga., but he is
probably better known to us here at David-
son as the son of our own ‘Dr. Richards,”
is the way in which Wade Fulton, as leader
of the service, introduced the- speaker to
the small crowd which attended Y Vesper
services last Sunday evening. He could not
have said more.

Dr. Reihards took as his subject “The
Game of Football and the Game of Life.”
On this singularly fitting subject the speaker
said that there are many ways in which
these two are alike. First, both games re-
quire courage on the part of the partici-
pants. There is many a football player who
is able to win a game by a courageous act,
and_it is so in life that-one’s courage must
not fail or he is lost. They are alike, too, in
that those who “make” the headlines do not
always deserve all praise that is given them.
In 1928 when Georgia Tech’s “Golden Tor-
nado” was marching to a national title the
names of Thomason and Mizell were the
ones most often seen in large type. The fol-
lowing year the same two men played for
Tech, but there performances were not near
so spectacular as before and the difference
was that the wonderful line that the year
before had opened the holes for them was
gone. They were just.as good players as
before, but with a weaker line they didn’t
seem as good. Self-sacrifice is essential for
the success of the team in both games. A
great coach was once asked what was the
greatest play~he had ever seen. He replied,
“One team had kicked and the safety man
had fumbled. As this was before the days
of the present ruling one of these men
might pick up the ball and score a touch-
down, but there was chance that the safety
man might tackle the one who did so. The
greatest play I have ever seen was the ac-
tion of one of these men who, sizing up the
situation in a split second, blocked this man
and allowed his teammate to score.”

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Faculty Is Represented by

Students Will Hear Dr.

James Southall Wilson
From University of Va.

Will Speak in Chapel Tuesday Morning
On “American Literature in
American Life”

AUTHORITY ON EDGAR A. POE

Is Graduate of Princeton and Listed
in “Who’s Who”

Dr. James Southall Wilson, Edgar Allen
Poe Professor of English at the University
of Virginia, will lecture in Chambers Audi-
torium® on Tuesday, December 6th, at the
time of the regular chapel period. His sub-
ject will be “American Literature in Ameri-
can Life.” Dr. Wilson has been secured to
speak to us at this time through the com-
bined efforts of the Lecture Committee and
the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. He
will address the latter at its initiation cere-
mony on the preceding evening.

Dr. Wilson has won for himself a place
in the coveted “Who’s Who.” He is a grad-
uate of William and Mary College and has
an M.A. from the institution where he now
teaches, and his Ph.D. from Princeton. He
was first assistant Professor of English and
History at his alma mater, from whence he
was called to the chair he fills at the pres-
ent time. |

(Continued on page 6)

Language Association |
Convenes in Atlanta

Professors Erwin, Vowles, Watts,
Fleagle, and Blythe

The South Atlantic Modern Language As-
sociation, composed of prominent modern
language professorsin- leading colleges and
universities in the South, held its annual |
meeting in Atlanta, Ga. on November 25}
and 26, The delegates at this meeting were
representatives from North and. South Caro-
lina, Georgia, Florida, and Alabama, the last
of which was included in the roll of mem-
bership at this meeting.

The meetings were attended by about two
hundred people, all of whom are outstand-
ing in the field of modern languages. The
delegates frém Davidson are as _ follows:
Prof. E. J. Erwin, English; Dr. G. R. Vowles,
German; Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Spanish; Prof.
F. L. Blythe, Spanish, and Prof G. B. Watts,
French. Professor Erwin had the distinc-
tion of being a member of the Executive
Council, the special function of which was
to draw up a constitution and by-laws of the
association.

The members of the faculty of Davidson
who attended the meeting made important
addresses to their various groups during the
session. Professor Erwin, who was. presi-
dent of the association last year, spoke on
“Some Best Sellers of 1796.” Professor Watts
spoke on “Voltaire’s Quarrel with Le Pocete
sans Fard: an Illustration of Research
Method.” Dr. Vowles~chose “Independent
Reading for the Gifted Student” for his sub-
ject, and Professor Fleagle spoke on “Hand-
ling Language Failures in a—General-Lan-
guage Course.”

The most outstanding feature of the meet-
ing was an address by Dr. Joseph Quincey
Adams, Director of Research, Folger Shakes-
peare Library, Washington, D. C. Dr. Ad-
ams, who is one of the most prominent men
in_his field of literature, spoke on “The New
Shakespeare Memorial Library in Washing-
ton.”

Other interesting features of the program
were sight-seeing,teas, dinners, and a foot-
ball game between Georgia and Georgia
Tech in addition to the regular sessions
of the association.

The South Atlantic Modern Language As-
sociation was founded in 1928. It included
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and
Florida. Alabama was included this year,
and there is a possibility of the entrance of
Tennessee into the association in the near

future.

WILDCATS SCORE TOUCHDOWN TO
BREAK JINX OF ELEVEN YEARS

CHARLEY PEARCE -HALFBACK

Charley Pearce, Davidson’s All-State
backfield man, who starred in David-
son’s win over Wake Forest.

Eumeneans Feature
Interesting Program

Two splendid talks featured the program
of the Eumenean Literary Society meeting
Tuesday, November 22,

Rufus Page gave a very instructive dis-
sertation on snakes, illustrated by living
specimens. Poisonous snakes of the United
States were first considered, followed by a
discussion of the non-poisonous snakes of
this vicinity. The first-aid treatment for
snake bites was clearly explained. To climax
the talk, the speaker told various snake tales
(stories).

Bill Ward spoke on birds of prey, illus-
trating it by the novel means of lantern
slides. Owls and hawks especially were
dealt with. The difference between destruc-
tive birds of prey and those that are not in-

-+jurious to the welfare of the farmer was

shown, and the habitat and habits of these
interesting creatures were fully explained.

The subjects and methods were unusual
for a society meeting, adding much to the
interest of these well-presented little lec-
tures. Considerable enthusiasm is shown at
these excellent meetings, and it is expected
that the work will go forward with ever-in-
creasing vigor.

G. C. Frank Elected
Oxford Tennis Head

Dean Rusk, Davidson Graduate, Enters
Second Year on the Oxford Var-
sity LaCross Team

Grady C. Frank, a native of Kittrell, N.
C., and a graduate of Duke University, has
been elected captain of the Oxford tennis

team. He defeated the Cambridge ace, Nut-]

hall, last June and it naturally followed that
he would become the next captain.

Frank’s youth was spent in Japan. Here
he learned the fundamentals of the game.
When he entered Duke University his game
and high efficiency in mathematics won for
him a Rhodes Scholarship. He is majoring
in mathematics in St. Johns College now.

Frank is interested in the closer relation-
ship of the English-speaking countries in the
world. He states that these must not run
the world but should set an example of
peace and civilization for it. He stated that
English teams have more individuality in
their games than American ones because
English teams are not coached to the per-
fection as American teams are. This indi-
viduality leads to more superior teams than
Americans have.

Dean Rusk, a Davidson graduate and also
a Rhodes Scholar, now enters his second
year on the Oxford LaCross team. He was
awarded his “blue” last year.

Deacons Outgain Cats, Who Win on
Pearce’s 55-Yard Run for Touch-
down

8,000 FANS SEE GAME

Victory Places Davidson Fourth in
Race for State Honors

A jinx of eleven years standing was shat-
tered to pieces when Davidson College’s
fighting Wildcat football team unleashed a
completely new offensive to lay low the
highly-touted Demon Deacons of Wake For-
est by a 7 to 0 score, in their annual Turkey
Day classic. Eleven gridders clad in Red
and Black moleskins, and carrying the Wild-
cat spirit, rose to unprecedented he‘ghts,
and sent the old dope bucket rocketing sky
high, and rolled over a heavier team, and
one with a better record for the season.
This victory placed Davidson fourth in the
state race, and sent Wake Forest deep into
the cellar. The game was played on Kich-
ardson Field and was witnessed by a capac-
ity crowd’ of about 8,000 spectators.

It was a great ball game all the way
through, with the game in anybody's hands
until little Charley Pearce, playing his last
game for the Wildcats, put the game on ice
when he intercepted Shinn’s pass, and shook
off the entire Deacon aggregation and sprint-
ed 55 yards to a touchdown, Bruce Pea-
body converting from placement.

The Deacons carried off the honors in the
statistics column, gaining twelve first downs
to six for the Wildcats, and having an edge
in the yardage. Nevertheless, the game stand
of the ’Cats in the time of need,, when the
Deacons were in the shadow of the David-
son goal posts, was the outstanding feature
of the game. The flashes of offensive power
in the Wildcat machine did not show up
often, but when they did they came through
like an electrical storm. Charley Pearce
made another beautiful run, an 84-yard re-
turn of the kickoff at the opening of the
second half, but it was called back by an
observant official. It must have been a great
feeling for the diminutive all-state halfback
to make that second touchdown, after hav-
ing his first great sprint declared null and
void, :

The Wake Forest team, noted for its de-
fensive power, showed a great offense, sev-
eral times driving within Davidson's 10-yard
stripe, only to be repulsed by a fighting line
of red jerseys. The Wake Forest success
in passing appeared to be the greatest sur-
prise to both the Davidson defense and the
spectators. They seventeen times,
and completed six for a total gain of 70
yards. Only one pass proved to be disas-
trous, the one that fell into Pearce’s wait-
ing arms, and spelled defeat for the Deacs.

passed

Swan, Deacon tackle, placed himself on
the all-state team by playing the majority
of the afternoon in the Davidson backfield,
throwing many of the ’Cat backs before the
play could get started. Wall, Peters, and
Wilson all did good work in the Wake For-
est backfield, Wall doing especially well in

(Continued on page 6)

Freshman Debate
Tryouts

At a recent meeting of the Forensic
Council it was decided to hold the
Freshman debate tryouts December 15.
The query for the debate will be: Re-
solved, “That All Commercial Banks
Should Be National Banks and Thus
a Part of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem.” A committee of four composed
of Forensic Council members will be
the judgec.

Letters are being written to colleges |
over the state to secure dates for de-
bate contests for the Freshmen. A
more determined effort is being made
this year to stimulate interest and to
make Freshman debating a big suc-

