6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

Social Fraternities Are
Hosts to Many Guests
During Junior Speaking

Pan-Hellenic Council Sponsors Several
Entertainments During Histor-
ical Occasion

VARIED PROGRAM IS HELD

Margaret Gorrell is Crowned First
Queen of Junior Speaking

During the past week-end the ten social fra-
ternities at Davidson were hosts to many guests.
Junior Speaking is one of the six house parties
that are held at the college, the Pan-Hellenic
Council being the sponsor. Several entertain-
ments of interest were held.

The following is a list of the guests who
were present:

T. U. O.

Ellen White, Concord; Frances Boger, Con-
cord; Elizabeth Gatewood, Pelham; Mary Tay-
lor, Statesville; Frances Quinn, Statesville;
Alice Rieves, Charlotte; Peggy Ashcraft,
Charlotte; Kitty Vanshop, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Tut Gor-
rell, Greensboro; Dougie Long, Greensboro; |
Sally Pat Kafer, New Bern; Frances Perry, |
New Bern; Mary Emma White, Raleigh; Sally
Couch, Charlotte; Nell Ward, Converse, S. GF
Marie Leonard, New York City,; Mary Mc-

Kay, Concord; Mary McNinch,

Washington,
D.C.

Beta Theta Pi
Sara Erckman, Hendersonville; Anne Davis,
Manteo; Mary Meadows Duke, ‘Henderson;

Jennie Harrison, Greensboro ; Nancy Moore,
Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Elizabeth Muldrow, Converse College ;-abel
Sims, Converse College; Mary Barr Prince,
(} Converse College; Polly Webb,. Converse Col-
lege’; Mary Elizabeth Cunningham, Greensboro;
Virginia Bailey, Hickory; Kitty Moore, Char-
lotte; Charlotte Umpstead, Durham; Mabel
Wilkie, Charlotte; Mary Alice Darby, Flor-
ence, Ala.; Isabel White, Concord ; Elizabeth

McInnis, Red Springs; Julia Mclver,
ville, Ind...

Jefferson-

Kappa Alpha

Lib Lewis, Chester, S. C.; Elizabeth Gil-
mour, Wilmington; Harriet Cobb, Durham;
Elise Cross, Columbia, S., C.; Martha
Charleston, S. C.; Mary Shemwell, L
Edith Killian, Charlotte ;
Atlanta, Ga.; Alice Davis, Atlanta, Ga.; Nel!
Thomas, Winston-Salem; Eleanor Hayes,
Charlotte; Mary D. Marion, Charlotte; Eleanor
Payne, Charlotte; Jean Ritz, Winston-Salem:
Heistand Scott, Davidson ; Mary Smith, Forces
ville, Texas; Ruth Whitton, Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Mary Margaret Lee, Roncevert, W. Va.;
Frances Blake Moore, Staunton, Va.; Mar-
jorie Mower, Staunton, Va.; Bessie Cheatham,
Durham; Emily Moore, Mt. Olive; Lib Shel-
don, Charlotte; Virginia Knee, Charlotte ;
Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; Ethel Begg.
Charlotte; Harriet Moore, Charlotte; ates

Lee Shackelford, Durham; Martha Ware Pitts
Charlotte,

Benson,
exington,
Harriet Townsend,

: Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Marcia Lane, Buffalo, N. Y.; Sheila Elliot,

Tampa, Fla.; Marion Carlisle, Sarasota, Fla.;
Louise Tate, Ch

arlotte; Anna Preston, Char-
lotte; Betty Young, Albany, N, Y.; Mary
Blackwell, Lexington, Ky.; Mary Wisdom
Lambeth, Charlotte; Mary Ann Cutter, Char-
lotte; Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S, C.; Mar-
garet Crawford, Rome, Ga.; Mr. and Mrs. W
A. Armfield, Winston-Salem,

Phi Delta Theta
Elizabeth Grey, Satfem College; Katherine

Maynard, N. C. C. W.; Bell Reid Martin,
Florence, S. C.

Kappa Sigma
Susan Gregory, Greensboro; Adelaide For-
tune, Greensboro; Maggie Morson, Charlotte ;
Susan Horner, Durham; Annie Joe Webb, Ra-
leigh; Bertha Burch, Charlotte.

FRESHMAN TRACK TEAM

(Continued from page 3)

Shot put—Harold Sutton (C), Wrenn (C),
Morris (D), Potter (D). Distance, 46 feet,
9Y, inches.

Discus throw—Harold Sutton (C), West
(D), Morris (D), Brown (G), Distance, 111
feet, 8 inches.

Javelin throw—Harold Sutton (C), Howard
Sutton (C), Gill (C); Brown (G). Distance,
157 feet, 8 inches.

ATHLETIC NIGHT

(Continued from page 1)
an interest in some struggling young athlete,
and try to help him, and his thrills and suc-
cesses would be thrills and successes for them.
The evening's program was closed’ with the
singing of the Davidson Alma Mater, “College
Ties.” ° :

Don King, of Joh

City, T:

, Retiring President of Stud

t Body.

Intercollegiate Press

Because he undertook to write at some length
in the editorial columns of the Centre College
Cento on the “Stupidity of Marriage,” Charles
J. Thurmond is no longer editor-in-chief of that
newspaper.

Before the Christmas vacation Thurmond had
announced that he had been doing some think-
ing on the subject. Some of the results of his
cogitations follow:

in existence today !”

“Nature’s creatures are designed to attract
each other, and after attraction to procreate and
perpetuate their kind... . This mutual attrac-
tion between two persons is a purely physical
thing and purely for the purpose of procreation
and perpetuation. The attraction is ephemeral ;
of all the things in the world, -it is the most
ephemeral. Intellectual compatibility
quite another thing. Two persons, properly
mated in their interests, ambitions, abilities, ca-
pacities, and intellectual endowments, do well
to become companions and live together. Two
persons of the same gender can enter into this
marriage. It is platonic.”

is

The paper’s new editor is Larry Woboril.

Students of the College of Law at the Uni-
versity of Arizona have presented to Presi-
dent H. L. Shantz a petition asking that gradu-
ating seniors of the college be presented with
diplomas of a larger size and more suitable na-
ture than those which have been given in re-
cent ‘years, /

The petitioners complained that the diplomas
have been too small and insignificant for pur-
poses of framing as is customary with profes-
sional men who display their certificates on the
walls of their offices. The petition also stated
that the leather cover used is an unnecessary
expense.

The diplomas of other law colleges are as

a rule approximately three times the size of
that given by Arizona.

Not only does instruction in the best Ameri-
can colleges in many respects equal that of
Oxford and Cambridge, but the American col-
lege student of 1932 is superior to his predeces-
sor of a generation ago.

This at least is the belief of President A.
Lawrence Lowell of Harvard University as ex-
pressed in his annual report to the board of
overseers for the academic year 1930-1931.

“Our college students as a whole appear more
mature than a generation ago, not only in schol-
arship but also in their outside interests and
in the sense of proportionate values which is
the flower of maturity,” President Lowell said.
“And this in spite of—perhaps to some extent
because of—the fact that they enter a year
younger than they did in the early nineties.
Maturity is by no means wholly a matter of
years. It depends much more on environment,
and above all on responsibility.

“A youth who enters college at 19 and is
treated like a school boy matures less rapidly
than one who enters at 17 and is treated like
a man. To enter ‘at the appropriate age and
be expected to be rather above than below his
maturity is the best way to develop manly
character.”

What two Yale students started as a college
prank last week ended up with the wrecking
of three automobiles, and the placing of civil
cases and theft charges against the boys.

The two, Charles M. Kase, a sophomore, and
Allan M. ‘Ferguson, a junior, took a large
wooden horse from an antique shop, dragged
it along the highway near Milford and caused
the wrecking of three automobiles which could
not pass the heavy traffic when they saw the
horse loom up before them-

Economics Class Leads
Investigation Into Trips

Taken by 130 Students

Average Number of Trips Taken Away
From Campus by Each Stu-
dent is 7.88

SOPHOMORES TRAVEL LEAST

“Marriage is the stupidest of all institutions t

Period of Observation Extends Over
Six Weeks

If figures don’t lie there are a number of mod-
ern Gullivers in the student body of Davidson
College, At least there are some who like to
travel and this is evident When you take into
consideration facts that have been recently com-
piled. The Economics Class in Statistics made
a survey of the departures from the campus and
selected 130 students to help them in their
study.

During a six weeks’ period lasting from Sep-
tember 15 to October 27, 1931, it was discov-
ered that these made made 1,024 trips and trav-
eled a total of 75,737 miles. This, group repre-
sent about 20 per cent of the student body and
the average number of trips per student was
7.88. There were thtee men who didn’t leave
the campus during the entire period. These men
maintained a record to which no doubt the
teachers wish others would aspire.

The Seniors left the campus more than any
of the other classes and the Juniors followed.
The Sophomores some day will make ideal
husbands because it was found that they went

|

away the least of the four classes. The reason
why this class stayed on the campus the most
is not known, unless they were too busy study-
ing and could not go or either financially em-
barrassed and were not able.

When the subjects for the study were asked
the purpose of their trips no doubt some of
them had trouble explaining why they went.
Most of the journeys were of a social nature
and the investigators would probably have done
better if they could have interviewed the ladies
on this point. The number of trips made for so-
cial reasons was 670 and the average number of
hours, 6.6.

Twenty-two excursions were made by athletes
to take part in games and 76 to witness athletic
contests. Davidson has potential financiers and
captains of industry under her wing as shown
by the 120 trips made for business reasons.
Visits to relatives were longer than most of
the other trips and totalled 110. Trips of a re-
ligious nature were also included and helped to
increase the total number of trips and hours.

No wonder the railroads are having a hard
time when you consider that only four trips
were made by rail and in two of them the
journey one way was by another method. Trips
made by bus numbered 113 and those in the
family car totalled 196. A distinction was masle
between making arrangements with a friend
beforehand or being offered a ride and bum-
ming on the highway. Those made with friends
numbered 230 and 456 were made through pub-
lic courtesy.

Trips made by railroad and bus were long-
est and those enjoyed through the courtesy ot

Y Complete Service
for School Publications

OQnnuals
Manazines
s

Catal
Dieu Books

Queen Cily PrintingCo

nC

i)

Charl

the

Davidson of Long Ago

March 24, 1927
Boyce Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., was chosen
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonion by the student
body last week.

Dick Grey, all-state half, was selected as cap-
tain of the 1927 football team.

W. B. Rice, of China, was the lone member
of the class of 1927 to be elected to the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
at the last election of that body.

Charles McRae was elected president of the
“VY” for the ensuing year by the student body,
and Dick Flynn and Bill Hill were elected
vice-presidents.

Athletic Night was held on Thursday night,
March 17th, and proved to be an overwhelming
success.

March 21, 1917

At a meeting of the Junior class, held yes-
terday morning, L. A. Chambliss was unani-
mously elected editor-in-chief for the 1918 vol-
ume of Quips and Cranks.

Last Friday morning, R. H. Stone was elect-
ed editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian for 1917-
1918. Thursday morning, the student body elect-
ed O. J. Thies, business manager, and O. C.
Williamson, circulation manager.

$

At a meeting of the student body, J. B.
Daffin, 718, and H. K. Aiken, ’18, were elected
assistant managers of the baseball team for the
coming season.

Musical Deputation
Travels to Hickory

A quartet of Davidson musicians journeyed
to Hickory last Tuesday, March 15th, to be the
main attraction on the program of the Hickory
Kiwanis Club’s ‘Ladies’ Night’ celebration.
The quartet was composed of Bill Hart, piano:
Richard Vowles and Don Leeper, violins, and
A. B. Rhodes, accordian.

Dr. Vowles, of the Davidson German depart-
ment, accompanied the boys on the trip, and
won one of the prizes offered in the word build-
ing contest. He made up the largest number of
words from the letters contained in the two
words, “Kiwanis Club.” Incidentally, Dr. Vowles
is a charter member of the first Kiwanis Club
established in South Dakota.

The program was greatly enjoyed by all
present. It follows:

1, Prelude—Chopin

Aen Piano solo, Bill Hart

2. Kreisler’s “Old Refrain”

the public were shortest. Public courtesy rides
headed the list with 35.1 per cent of the total
75,737 miles, and bus rides ranked next. An
unusual thing was .that the student who went
away often did not remain on the average as
long as those who seldom left. This all goes
to prove that Davidson students will be world
travelers if they continue to travel more as they
grow older.

Student Council Gives
Resignation at Temple

Six Members Resign After an Attempt
at Dissolution Proves to be
Unsuccessful

Following an unsuccessful attempt to dissolve
the student council of Temple University, six
members of that body tendered their written res-
ignation in an open letter to the student body.
“ This move, the six said, was taken as a pro-
test against the alleged failure of student gov-
ernment at the university. The letter in part
read:

“We feel that we, under the present system
of student government, are unable to represent
the students who have elected us. We cannot
legislate for them. We simply ratify measures
which have been suggested, authorized and put
into effect by the university authorities. We
have taken office under oath to support the
constitution and by-laws of the student council
of Temple University as signed and ratified
by the president of Temple University and other
university authorities. This document gives stu-
dent council certain rights and privileges which
have been withdrawn in all instances. The fol-
lowing are three:

“Student council is authorized to. legislate
with regard to expenditure of student funds.
This power was withdrawn. Council was al-
lowed to approve budgets already drawn up.
Council voted a subsidy to the Owl, then in
straightened circumstances. This was overrid-
den and the Owl did not receive the subsidy.

“Student council is authorized to legislate in
regard to class dances and other social func-
tions. This power has been withdrawn.

“Student council is authorized to supervise
and control all undergraduate elections. This
power has been withdrawn.

“Tn each case council has been left only the
nominal power of ratifying existing measures
when failure to ratify them for any reason, no
matter how significant, could have no effect.”

DR. W. L. LINGLE

(Continued from page 5)
itual Things of the Church.” In his address
Dr. Lingle said that the church has many
missions and that it performs many functions,
the chief of which is the winning of men for
Christ.

Vidlin solo, Don Leeper

3. “Over the Waves”
Accordian solo, A. B. Rhodes
4, “Oh! Susannah”

Ensemble, Richard Vowles, Ward and Rhodes

5. “Neapolitan Waltz”
Accordian solo, Ward
6. “Sweet Jennie Lee”
Accordian solo, Ward
7. “Drifting and Dreaming”
Ensemble
8. Gavotte—Gossec
Violin Solo, Leeper
9. Medley of College Songs

Washington and Lee Swing

Eyes of Texas

The Good Old Ship of Zion
State College Goes Fighting Along

O! Davidson

Your Ea

With all the new styles of

*> Men’s

Department

For

an

the best dictates of fashion, we are all ready for Easter. If you
aren’t, the only thing to do is to come over to see us in the very
near future. There are others also at $18.95.

ster Suit

the spring here in the latest and

Street
Floor

