THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

TREKKING WEST

WILL ROGERS ENTERTAINS AT
BEVERLY HILLS

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

NOTE:¢Below is one of a series of
articles written in connection with a
visit by the writer to the National Edi-
torial Association meeting with his father
in California.

One evening a dinner was given in honor
of the newspaper party in Coldwater Can-
yon Park, at Beverly Hills. On the way the

“driver pointed out many of the homes of

&

‘he screen stars and celebrities. On arriv-
‘Ing we were surprised to learn that the
tables were set on top of the city reservoir
containing 8,000,000 gallons of water.

Coldwater Canyon is complete with lawn,
shrubs and growing trees. A large orna-
mental fountain in the center was illuminated
with lights of yellow, green and purple. It
was hard to realize the presence of a usually
homely reservoir underneath, because it fur-
nished such a beautiful park to the chain
of parks in Beverly Hills.

' PEGGY HAMILTON PRESIDES

Hon. Paul E. Schwab, Mayor of Beverly
Hills, introduced the mistress of ceremonies,
Miss Peggy Hamilton. She is the Los An-
geles County Official Hostess: and the rec-
ognized modiste in Hollywood. She creates
the styles Paris later copies. “It was her
place to receive on behalf of the county the
various teams during the Olympic Games.
She selects the clothes the leading screen
stars wear in their productions and is a very
busy woman.

One of the speakers told on her in spite
of her protests and we learned that-she had
dressed in her car while coming from the
studio. But you never would have guessed
it. She appeared in a striking cape with a
lot of fall innovations .which had just been
introduced as the vogue in the smart shops
on West Seventh Street. She wrote on my
program afterwards, “Greetings to Jack Wil-
liams from Beverly Hills and Peggy Hamil-
ton, County Hostess.”

THE PROGRAM

The Beverly Hill Billies performed in per-
son through the courtesy of radio station
KMPC. The team is composed of Len, Jad,
Hank, Zeke, Dan, and little Elton’ Britt, the
boy from Arkansas, and Mr. Bud. Their
radio broadcasts have been outstanding for
the last two and a half years. This was
one of their rare public appearances.

Dr. Charles Frederick Lindsay, a member
of the faculty at Occidental College, gave
some readings. He is the far-famed dramatic
reader heard each Sunday afternoon over
the Columbia Network. His feature was in-
structive as well as entertaining.

Ethel Jenks, who co-starred with Law-
rence Tibbett in one of his recent pictures,
sang. She possesses a wonderful soprano
voice and contributed a great: deal to the
success of the program.

Fanchon & Marco made a splendid con-
tribution. They presented their best talent
and feature act. Beverly Hills is the home
of this famous vaudeville organization. They
have about 35 companies on the road all
over the United States. The whole program
was staged on a platform erected in the
park under the trees. A Beverly Hills or-
chestra furnished music for the occasion.
WILL ROGERS ATTENDS

Will Rogers came in while everyone was
seated. Throwing his hat on the grass, he
sat down at a place on the other side from
the speaker’s table. Miss Hamilton called
on him-and=he kept ts howling for 30 min-
utes. Everywhereewe went the editors had
been called the “moulders of public opin-
ion.” They had conté to think that perhaps
public opinion was a little mouldy but it
wasn't their fault. Will Rogers had a-good
laugh on editors and public opinion, and
said, “The editorial page is the one nobody
reads.” ‘ ;

A. L. KatéS’of Claremore, Okla., was in
the newspaper party. It seems he had taught

Mrs. Rogers how to set type in his printing |/

shop~years ago. He paid 75 cents a day as’
a wage, but she wouldn’t work for less than
$1.00 Will Rogers commented on the fact
that “she’s still expensive.”

Speaking of politics, he claimed, “I’ve
kinder lost interest in politics since Cal got
out. There was a President for you and he
had a sense of humor. I liked Grace, too;
in fact, I don’t know whether Cal likes me
so much on account of Grace.”

He told about visiting the Coolidges at
their New England place. After supper that
night Cal said, “Well, Grace, I expect we’d
better send. Will off to bed.” He described
going upstairs and entering a big room. In
the corner was a big bed. “Bed, why it was
a regular Brigham Young bed,” he ex-
claimed. :

He kept the polo ponies at his ranch dur-

Carolina Stars

The Silver Screen

oe. Sis sas sat

BACK

a

AAS SITEROFULL

DANIEL & HALE BACK

Two Carolina players who will see ac-
tion here Saturday.

ing the Olympics and insisted that after he’d
seen some of the Holland women he thought
they had made a mistake. He was supposed
to keep the Holland women instead of the
horses.

| In closing, he remarked, “I don’t know
whether you enjoyed all this or not.. I can
do much better. You know I’m not getting
paid for this, but when I’m paid I put on
a real performance.”

It was kind of him to come the day after

Mr. Ziegfeld’s death, because the passing of
this great showman was a great blow. They
were great friends and Mrs. Ziegfeld left
all the arrangements in his hands. We met
him after dinner and he is a regular fellow.
He politely asked where we were from and
invited us to visit him at his ranch. He was
careful to add, “I won’t feed you! I thought
you had come out here for a day or two and
here you are on us for two weeks, just eat-
ing your way through California.”
En route to Los Angeles we took a view
of Beverly Hills’ new city hall. It was es-
pecially illuminated for that night and it is
indeed ‘an architectural masterpiece.

Dr. Samuel J. Hume of the University of
California, at Berkeley, spoke on “Oriental
Relations” at the business session Tuesday
morning. He made one of themost—schol-
arly talks of the entire-convention.

Alma Whitaker, of the Les Angeles Times
made a talk also. You may have your alma
mater, but California has its Alma Whitaker.
She was born in Englaid™and has tived all

.

Wednesday, Nov. 9—Night After Night—
(Paramount)

From Louis Bromfield’s story, “Single
Night,” this.picture attempts to prove the
theory that trite love can- exist even in, a
speakeasy. ‘

The story is about a. Miss Healy (Con-
stance Cummings) who frequents Joe An-
ton’s blind-tiger because it was-formerly her
home. .

The picture is well directed by Archie
Mayo and conveys the popular conception
of speakeasies as sleek, disorderly, and ex-
citing. George Raft as Joe Anton and Ros-
coe Karns as his valet both play their parts
very well.» Constance Cummings is attractive
but not very convincing as the kind of a
girl who would fall for a gangster. The
supporting cast is very able.

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 10-11—Grand
Hotel—(M-G-M)

The story, taken from the book by the
same name by Vicki Baum, is laid entirely
in a luxurious continental hotel. This is
probably’ the first picture to deal with the
startling readjustments of the conflicting
aims of the characters as a result of their
proximity.

As it should be, the chief virtue.of the
picture lies not in the brilliant direction of
Edmund Goulding. but in the acting: Garbo
gives, perhaps, her best performance, por-
traying admirably the bored ballet dancer,
Grusinskaya, and the change which comes
over her. John Barrymore makes a very
charming scape-grace Baron. Wallace Beery
is very realistic as a disagreeable textile
tycoon; while Lionel Barrymore is one of
his clerks who is incurably ill and has come
to spend his last days in a burst of unac-
customed luxury. Joan Crawford is the
stenographer. who is also in love with the
Baron. Other stars who played their roles
capably are: Lewis Stone as a-sententious
doctor, and Jean Hersholt as the hall porter.
One of the best productions of the year.

Saturday, Nov. 12—Klondike and Passport
to Hell

Klondike (Monogram) is one of the
dramas of the silent days made into a talkie.
True to the custom of that time, villains
are villains and virtue always gets its re-
ward, Lyle Talbot does his best, but not to
much ayail.

A Passport to Hell (Fox) is a rather arti-
ficial story of a love triangle in an African
settlement. Elissa Landi is an actress whom
it is difficult to suspect of misconduct; yet
she is often cast in°the most dishonorable
roles and this picture is no exception. Alex-
ander Kirkland and Elissa Landi play their
parts remarkably well considering the story.

over the globe, but true to California style,
she says she would rather live in California
than anywhere else.

Monday, Nov. 14—Sherlock Holmes

Clive Brook plays with his usual ability
as Sherlock Holmes in this, one of the old-

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

%

“DRUGS”
Student

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

P'S f

TOBACCOS

STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

CANDY

Gammon Speaks to
Quadwranglers Club

The Quadwranglers, Davidson College fac-
ulty club, held its regular monthly meeting
in its club room on the third floor of Cham-
bers Thursday evening, November 3rd. As
guest and speaker, the Reverend Edgar G.
Gammon, D.D., pastor of Myers Park Pres-
byterian Church of Charlotte, was presented.
Dr. Gammon spoke on the problems of the
pastor of a city church, giving especial em-
phasis on the many outside calls which are
made. After his address, Dr. Gammon re-
plied to a large number of questions asked
by-members of the club. Several new mem-
bers, elected at the October meeting, were
present.
Brannon, Coaches Newton, McEver, Laird,
Unger, and Whittle, Mr. McGill and Mr.
Hobart. The officers of the Quadwranglers
are: President, G. B. Watts; Vice-President,
H. E. Fulcher; Secretary-Treasurer, J. P.
Williams. These officers together.with Dr.
P. H. Gwynn make up the executive com-
mittee of the club.

est, and perhaps one of the best of detective
stories.

French Records

The college has recently purchased
for use in the Department of French
a set of twenty Victor recordings Fran-
cais par le Son (French by Sound).
The material for these records was
prepared by Prof. Raymond Weeks of
Columbia University, and. the record-
ings were made by Professor Louis
Allard of Harvard. Professor Allard
is a native of Paris and this new set
of records has been received very fa-
forably by teachers of’ French

These included Major Rhett, Mr.|

MA UPSILON LITERARY _.
at SOCIETY ISSUES BIDS

(Continued from page 1)
paper on “The Socialist Party and Its Candi-
date.”

After the program all the members, includ-
ing the new initiates, took part in an open
forum discussion of the merits and demerits
of the main parties and the probable outcome
of the election.

Tom Wood is an active worker on the
publications on the campus, including The
Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and the
Yowl;»he also has taken part in the Red
land Black Masquers‘last year; his social fra-
ternity is Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Gordon Wood took a foremost part in the
campus dramatic activity, and he is con-
nected with the Y. M. C. A. in the Sunday
School work. He is a member of the Eu-
menean Literary Society.

Edward MeNair is an assistant in English,
has been vice-president of the Eumenean
Literary Society, a member of the Glee Club,
an Honor Roll student, and a member of
Eta Sigma Phi and Mu Beta Psi honorary
fraternities.

Leland McKeithan is assistant editor of
the Annual, a! member of Delta Pi Kappa,
lthe International Relations Club, the Glee
Club, and the Varsity Debating Team. He
took part in Freshman baseball; he is an
assistant in Bible. He is a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Lyman Clardy is a member of the Eu-
menean Literary Society; he is a managing
editor of The Davidsonian. He is a mem-
ber of the Phi Gamma social fraternity.

Gordon Brown is the art editor of the
Yowl. He is president of the Sophomore
class. He is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity.

-the

White Burley

pipes.

ee

I believe you love
that old pipe better
than you do me!”

Cae is made
solely for pipes.

ranger is not a

cigarette tobacco.

eris made of
tobacco
best tobacco for
Just try it!

Load it pinch by pinch;
pack it tight; strike a
match—CGranger smokes
cool and lasts longer.

10c

YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODUCT
