THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

Schedule of Honorary Fraternity Meetings

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

He spends his-summers at Montreat in-As- Greensboro, announce the marriage of their
sembly Inn. daughter, Dorothy Elizabeth, to Daniel
Glenn Oden on Monday, September 19th, at

APP ” ) ; $ h
Oden-Satterfield Greensboro.’*Mr, Oden is a member of the

“Mr. and Mrs. L. C. Satterfield, of (Continued on page 6)

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
7 :00 Omicron Delta Scabbard and Pi Delta
P. M. Kappa Blade Alpha
8 :00 : Alpha Phi
P. M. Eta Sigma Phi Epsilon
900. i Sigma Delta Y. M. C..A. International
P. M. Sigma Upsilon Psi Cabinet Relations Club

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS oe

Monday ‘Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
7:00 Delta Phi Sigma Pi
P.M. Alpha Sigma Mu Beta Psi
8:00 Le Cercle Delta Pi Omega Phi
P. M. Francais Kappa Alpha
9 :00 Gamma Sigma Red and Black Y. M.C, A. Ministerial 3eaver
P. M. Epsilon Masquers Cabinet Band Club

’ Sigma Delta Pi

Alumni News

Editor’s Note: The following alumni
items have been received in the mail of
Ernest Milton, former alumni secretary
at Davidson but now treasurer of Ba-
rium Springs Orphanage. ‘ He has pre-
pared this news matter for The David-
sonian.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of the mother of Thomas W. Brohard, ’29,
and M. L. Brohard, '32, at her home in
Grafton, W. Va. Mrs. Brohard died two
weeks ago. Tom Brohard has returned to
Stony Brook School, Long Island, N. Y., for
his second year as a member of the: teach-
ing and coaching staff of that institution.

Major Harlee Morrison, ‘16, of Terrell,
Texas, has been elected a member of the

Texas State Legislature, as representative

Trom the 52nd District. Mr. Morrison de-
feated two dyed-in-the-wool politicians. In
the first primary a former member of the
Texas Legislature was eliminated, and in
the run-off, Mr. Morrison defeated the in-
cumbent from that district, This was the
first political office to which Mr. Morrison
has aspired, and he was victorious by a sub-
stantial majority.

Joe D. Welborn, '28, of Pelzer, S. C., ‘was
recently elected a member of the House of
Representatives of the State of South Caro-
lina. Mr. Welborn has the distinction of
being one of*the youngest Legislators in the
country. He is only 25 years of age now.
When Mr. Welbron was 21 years old he was
elected mayor of Pelzer, which was another
distinction for a young man.

The Rev. James T. “Tim” Pharr, ’12, is
now living up in West Virginia, the pastor
of the Presbyterian Ghurch in the town of

Cass, W. Va...He has recently conducted al

very successful evangelistic campaign of two
weeks in the old Alexander Memorial Pres-
byterian Church in Pocahontas County, West
Virginia.

M. Camper O'Neal, ’28,.0f Chicago, IIls.,
has returned to the law school at Columbia
at New York, and will next
spring complete his work on a law degree.
Following his graduation in ’28, Mr. O'Neal
was for two years Y. M. C. A. secretary at
Davidson. f

University,

Francis Ghigo, ’29, of Valdese, is now con-
with the department of
Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia. Mr.
Ghigo replaced William R. Weaver, ’29, who
was in that department there for two years.
Mr. Ghigo taught two years at Riverside
Academy, Gainesville, Ga., and last
year at» his home in Valdese.

nected Spanish

spent

Albert Hillhouse, 24, who is now a student
at Northwestern «University at
Ills., to complete — his

Evanston,

Ph.D... de-

expects

pgree next June. Mr. Hillhouse.has..studied

at the University of North Carolina and Cé-
lumbia University in New York, and for a
while was connected with the Loan and Ex-
change Bank in Columbia, S. C.

‘Rey. D. P. McGeachey, Jr., ’22, has ac-
cepted a call as pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church at N. C. Mr. Mc-
Geachey has been connected with the Home
Mission office-in Atlanta, Ga. Rev. W. B. S.
Chandler, '07, was pastor of this church, but
resigned a year ago™ because of ill health.

Monroe,

BIRTH
Rey. W. E. Phifer, Jr., '29, and Mrs. Phifer,
of Farmingdale, N. J., announce the birth of
a son, William Everette, III, on September
14th,

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
Anderson-Futch

“Mrs. Annie Futch, of Asheville, announces

7

117 GARLAND COURT

__STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

nf WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

See Our DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVES

A. M. MANSON

- THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

I have enclosed $2.00, for which please send me THE
DAVIDSONIAN to the address below, for the school year

the marriage of her daughter, Celestine, to
Charles Rowland Anderson, of St. Peters-
burg, Fla., on Thursday, September 22nd, at
Mr.

the class of 1927, and since leaving Davidson

Asheville.” Anderson is a member of

he has been in business at St. Petersburg.

Recommended by the English Department of
Davidson College

The Best Abridged Diction because it is
based upog Wepsrun's Now INTER-
NATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority.”

Here is a companion for your hours of
reading and study that will prove its
real value every time you consult it for
the wealth of ready information that
is instantly yours.

106,000 words and phrases with defi-
- - nitions, etymologies, pronuncia-
tions, and use in its-1,268 pages. 1,700
illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography
_ Ad seceraphy | Held of De ccrerrcan! use of sipkels,
abbreviations, «3 & dictiona: Of forcign rases; and other
helpful special features. ad sek ;

See it at your cereke Bookstore or Write for Informa

tion to the Publishers. Free specime r
name this paper. oh ob aehalldh es

. G. & C. MERRIAM CO. 7

© 1932, Liccetr & Myers
Toracco Co,

Wherever you buy
Chesterfields,you get
them just’as fresh as
if you came by our
factory door

...all you could
ask for!

IHERE’S romance in a Chesterfield—

the romance of fine tobaccos from all
over the world. The search begins in far-
off Turkey where Chesterfield buyers visit
every important tobacco-growing section...
and continues throughout our own South-
land where buyers inspect every crop. Year
in and year out Chesterfield gives to its
smokers the “pick” of all these fields,

hestertield
