2°

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932. —

—

i

—= — — —=—

—

—

7] —

————————————— —

i
—

-—- — -—— ———
The Davidsonian
——SESESEoSoaoaoaoaoamamEaEaEamBaRIaQ@Q@T@@®P@T@@POQ@™DPB@BEBE“EQQDEQDEQQQSSS

Published Weekly “For a Batter Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RA 3-10 cents per copy; $200 the
legiate Year. Ente &s.second class matter at the t
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. aad MARTIN.

_Editor-in-Chief
P. M: CONWAY Ma

nager

EDITORIAL STAFF

E. is} Managing iter
B. M Editor
RL. McCALI LIE. anaging Editer
Cc. F. MY ana =
B. B. SUGGS Athi tie
BG SSERERIOS eee
. R/
H. W. VIN. --Review ite
aan ci
C. DWELLE, jR.-..-- A Editor
Wi 2S) SDEATBe eases. A Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON. Assistant Busi Ma
A. L, MEBANE.................... Assistant Busisess Manager
we WHITRTED ise sico ccc iseee Assistant | Business Manager
. R. MORROW. ‘aakbad ption Mana,
W. T. NEAL Ges Solicitor
. F. NE Pe Solicitor
f: B. Solicitor
A. Hi. MANSON --Solicitor

Lo

REPORTERS’ CLUB

AS-Hi. WHITEH BAD vets hcsscictscccckccsccsccascoss: President
ty Bi AIR iaviecs ci useicwscduenccscasisegateds Vice-President
j0F i OMULDISS Ti Naicc cic csc. csp cases: Seeretary-Treasurer
R. H. RrOEARO F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE
G. E, BAILEY R. E, LORRAINE
& E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. P.» PRESTON R RATT-THOMAS
W. R. Wade A, F. SCHENCK
0. CASA W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, ne W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

» MARCH 16, 1932,

Kid the other fellow if you want to, but don't
kid yourself; there's nothing in it—J. J. Bernet.

PARAGRAPHICS

Following the custom of past years this issue of the
Davidsonian is the official annual Junior issue of the
paper.

ee ) Sen

Leap Year does have its advantages. Because of the
superfluity of days in this year the college is to give
one extra day in the Spring holidays.

a

Vereen Bell, verbose editor of the campus humor

magazine, writes a scathing editorial in this issue

denouncing the plagiarism of school publications—'

the Tennessee “Mugwump”
a pes
Elections of the leaders of the student body for the
coming year were started in chapel yesterday morn-
ing. The student body should realize their full respon-
sibility in the selections.
s ee i ck
Junior Speaking should be a great success, con-
sidering the prevailing depression prices, and the gen-
eral good feeling caused by the approaching vacation.
——D
Newspapers have an abundance of material at the
present time; the Lindbergh affair is overshadowing
both the Sino-Japanese tangle and the Geneva meet-
ing. Still that doesn’t seem to help out the Davidson-
jan any.

in particular,

THE NEED FOR RETRENCHMENT

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity at
Emory University, surprised the campus inhab-
itants one day early in the year by the announce-
ment that they were giving up their charter, going
out of business. The members offered as reasons
for this action the inactivity of the club for a long
period of time and the uselessness of continuing
an organization which was doing no one any
good. Their.action was highly laudable and was
presented to other such organizations as a model
to be imitated.

On the Davidson campus there are nineteen
honorary organizations, recognizing ability and
effort in the many various lines of currieula and
extra-curricula activities. It would be no exag-
geration to say that over half of these fraterni-
ties do not serve the purpose for which they were
created, They serve only as a means of getting
more space under a person’s name in the annual;
they are purely honorary. And yet they take the
valuable money of the members and the ‘supposed-
ly valuable time of those concerned. Are they
worth this expenditure of time and money? No.
Could not the dollars and hours be used to a
much greater advantage elsewhere? Yes. Then
is there any reason why some of these groups
should not willingly and by their own power dis-
solve thentselves ?

Some will come forth with ideas for reform,

but they will not be the first. The trouble is too
deep-seated to be remedied by surface rejuvena-
tion. Plans for the creation of interest in these
same organizations have been tried many times
in the past and have failed in every instance. The
‘ difficulty comes from the fact that the same stu-
dents usually belong to several of the clubs, mak-
ing it practically impossible for them to attend
‘all of the meetings. The general tendency is to

'-attend none. This reduces the @fficiency ‘of the
meetings and therefore the accomplishments of
the clu to practically nothing.

The time is ripe for some of these inactive hon-
orary fraternities to “turn in their uniforms.”
The leadership of that Emory organization is

. worthy of a following among the group of living
-corpses to be found on the Davidson campus.

|

OF LITERARY HIGHWAYMEN

The Yowl has recently Had the experience of
being extensively and brazenly plagiarized. The
thief ‘was none other than the old, established
Tennessee Mugwump, humorous magazine of the
University of Tennessee. In its February issue,
the Mugwump had around thirty supposedly orig-
inal jokes; in other words it had thirty jokes to
which no acknowledgment was added, thus imply-
ing that they were original. Of this number, fif-
teen were copied verbatim from the last issue of
The Yowl. One article in the offending magazine
was from, The Yowl and was given credit for its
origin, The fifteen others were as bare of acknowl-
edgment as the Panama Canal is of snowstorms.

The Yowl is still at a tender young age; be-
diapered and innocent, but is capable of emitting,
as are other youngsters, a full, healthy squaawk—
which it did to the editors of the snatch-thief

Mugwump. These editorial buccaneers probably ‘

reasoned that the prominence of their publication
would so intimidate The Yow] that it would make
no protest, but their reasoning was fallacious. If
The Yow! must be plagiarized, we would’ much
rather it to be foraged by a magazine of a quality
superior to that of The Yowl, instead of the putrid
Tennessee Mugwump (whose humor is not espe-
cially dirty, only stupid). To be sure, it is a left-
handed compliment for our jests to be so admired
that they are capable of making an organization
forget its scruples, if any, to obtain possession of
them, but we mill take our compliments from the
right hand or not at all,

All of us must admit that we reluctantly admire
the bold robber who holds up a bank and relieves
it of a big sum. We admire his courage rather
than his morals, But the sneak-thief who steals a
bar of candy from a drug store shelf we only
despise. Such is the nature of plagiarists who, un-
der the cloak of legal red tape, steal the sentences
and paragraphs of others and print them as their
own.

Everyone realizes that the absolutely original
joke is indeed a rarity. There are probably not

.two dozen such in existence, and the editors of

humorous magazines make due allowance for such
a dearth, Even when there is a striking similarity
between two jokes no mention of this likeness is
made. But when page after page of material is
copied, word for word, bitter indignation is en-
tirely in order. Such unsportsmanlike, flagrant
violation of journalistic ethics and copyrights can-
not be condoned nor tolerated and, unless some
explanation or apology from the simple Tennessee
Mugwump is made, legal acrobatics may ensue,
Vereen Bell!

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee

The writer of the “Political Parade” is of the opin-
ion that Mel A. Traylor, ofgChicago, will be one of the
darkest dark horses at the Democratic National Con-
vention this fall. He says that at the present time the
odds are against him for ever becoming nominated,
but by the time of the convention he may be the
man for the post. He also that William
Randolph Hearst, the well-known newspaperman, is
backing John Garner for the Democratic nomina-
tion. The odds on Garner have dropped from 12 to 1
to 6 to 1 in six weeks. “Alfalfa” Bill) Murray's  plat-
form is “ Sutter, and Beans.” Murray
carried the vote recently. This writer ven-
dred into trouble by making two predictions in regard
to the nomination. : that Hoover will be nom-
inated for a second term on the first ballot; and that
Franklin: D, Roosevelt would be the Democratic nominee,
and that he would be nominated on or before the fifth
ballot.

There were thirteen students and five alumni of Ae
Generals’ school elected to and initiated into Phi Beta
Kappa recently.

tells us

sread, Bacon,

Iowa straw

They were

Emory

There will be five dances given by two Emory students
of the council, which will replace the Little
Commencement that was done away with this year for
financial reasons. Ozzie Nelson and his Brunswick Re-
cording Orchestra will furnish the music. There will be
three teeta dances, on Thursday evening, March 24,
from 10 to 2; on Friday evening from 10 to 2, and on
Saturday night from 9 to 12. There will also be two tea
dances, on Friday and Saturday afternoons from 4 to 6.
These dances are from March 24-26, during our spring
holidays.

in honor

_ N.C. State
State has named its speakers for its graduation exer-

cises. Honorable Merle Thorpe, editor of the“‘Nation’s
Business,” official publication of the United States Cham-
ber of Commerce, will deliver the graduation address on
June 9. Rey. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church of Wilmington, N. C., will deliver the
baccalaureate sermon on June 6. :

Wake Forest

Since the Lindberghs are once more back in the lime-
light and occupying most of the front pages, perhaps it
wouldn't be amiss!to quote something from the Wake
Forest paper that it quoted from the February issue of
the Baptist Student:

“In part Lindbergh says, ‘I came to the conclusion
that if I knew the difference between the right and wrong
way to do a thing, it was up to me to train myself to do
the right thing at all times. So I drew up a list of char-
acter factors at the left of a sheet of paper, and then I
numbered the top of the sheet 1 to 31, ruling the sheet
both up and down and sideways. ,

“‘Each night I would read off my list of character
factors, and those that I had fulfilled satisfactorily during

|
|

What Do You Think?

A nearly total eclipse of the moon will be visible in
the Western United States and much of the Pacific Ocean
on the morning of March 22, according to the calculations
of astronomers.

The moon eclipse will be one. of a series of four eclipses
on schedule for the present year. The sun eclipse that
paired with the March 22 moon eclipse was visible in
Australia and other South Sea localities on March 7.

The other pair of eclipses, the scientists said, will be
the total eclipse of the sun, visible across the New Eng-
land States, August 31, and a moon eclipse on Septem-
ber 14.

The moon eclipse of March 22, the astronomers haye
calculated, will begin at 1:58 o'clock in the morning,
Pacific standard time. At that hour the moon is due to
enter the outer shadow: of the earth. Growing increas-
ingly dark, the moon will reach the maximum of 97 per
cent darkening by the earth’s shadow, at 4:32 a. m.

Due to the fact that the moon will set on that morning
at 5:54 o'clock, Los Angeles time, it will be impossible
to witness the emergence of the moon from the eclipse
shadow, which is not due to occur until 7:05 o'clock.

Teachers at Weaver High School and instructors at
Trinity College in Connecticut compiled a list of the
worst» “bonérs” made in examinations held recently in
both institufgns and it was hard to decide whether the
college students had the edge on the high school students
or vice versa——

A Weaver student wrote brightly that Paul Revere
was buried inthe same cemetery where John Adams and
John Hancock ‘were born. Another wrote, “Henry Clay
was leader of the Night Hawks (really War Hawks)
who favored war in 1812.”

Other samples were:

“The little steamstress had nothing else to do so she
went to the guillotine with Sydney Carton.”

“Louis Pasteur bought the first Protestant church.”

“Louis Pasteur established the brain system of reading
for the blind.”

“Elaine was the girl who loved Lancelot and who had
his sleeve on in the joust.”

A Trinity student wrote, “Work is the ability to do
something.”

Another wrote, “Since women can vote,
ceased to be a privilege.”

Another, confused bya question, preceded his answer
with the interrogation, “When it says here compare with
civilized communities, would it be all right to take the
United States?”

Probably the most cautious of all answers was given
by a student who defined mass in this fashion—‘“Mass is
any object that contains weight. Weight is what an
object weighs.”

voting has

Figures just made public by the Geological Survey
show that in the field of hydro-electric development the
South is still leading the nation with an installation in
1931 of 332,631 horsepower of hydro-electric capacity out
of 581,000 additional horsepower for the nation.

At the beginning of 1932 the total installed hydro-
electric horsepower of the United States was 15,562,805,
and of this installed capacity, 4,699,700 horsepower was
in the South. The rate of increase in installation last
year was more than twice as great in the South as in
the remainder of the country.

During the past it is pointed out by the
Manufacturers Record, the hydro-electric development of

ten years,

the South has far outstripped that of the nation, in spite
of the fact that the hydro-electric capacity of the nation
The
in which it has expanded its resources in this particular
the South, as the
“a major advantage

has practically doubled during this period. manner

has created for Manufacturers Record
observes, with manufacturers seek-
ing locations?”

Do girls go to college solely to seek husbands ?

Yes, emphatically declares Miss Margaret Rippler, ed-
itor of a University of Arizona student literary magazine,
who has thrown the campus into turmoil by her caustic
statements.

“The average girl goes to a univer
best place to meet men with money,”

sity because it’s the

Miss Rippler avows.
“They can sort the bright and wealthy ones out from the
chaff, something the home-town folks wouldn't let. them
do. Only about two per cent of the men students have
any real intelligence. Witness the many. June marriages
every year of gold-digging co-eds and dumb males.”

She continues, “Most girls get about one proposal out
of every twenty dates, but they don’t want to experiment
too far with love until they are certain they have the
best-lookirgy, most capable, and the wealthiest man they
can-possibly get.”

the day I would mark with a red cross. Those I had not
been called upon to demonstrate would get no mark.
“But those character factors which I had actually
violated during the day would get a black mark. Then I
would compare the marks and I was glad to notice an
improvement as I grew older.’
“Following are the character
Lindbergh :

+ “Altruism, ambition, brevity in speech, concentration,
calmness in temper, clean body, clean speech, clean
thought, clean conduct, cheerfulness, courage, decisive-
ness, determination, economy, energy, enthusiasm, firm-
ness, faith, gracefulness, honesty, hopefulness, industry,
initiative, justice, judgment, love toward all, loyalty, mod-
erateness, modesty, neat appearance, no argument, no
sarcasm, no fault finding, no talking about others, no
talking too much, optimism, perseverance, physical exer-
cise, pleasant voice, punctuality, patience, politeness.

“Reverence (divine), parent, home, country, respect su-
periors, respect fellowmen, readiness to compromise, \rec-
reation—‘manful, not sinful,’ self-esteem, self-control, self-
confidence, sense of humor, sleep and rest, sympathy, sin-
cerity, tact, truthfulness, thoroughness, unselfishness.”

factors mentioned by

“|, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

JUNIOR SPEAKING SPECIAL

This column is cheerfylly dedicated this week to the
“Jolly Juniors,” in keeping with the Junior Speaking
Edition of DAVID’S ONIAN. After a short poem (also
with the theme of Junior Speaking), I shall attempt in
a few words to recount some of the merits of that dis-
tinguished group.

TO NELLE,

(This is a Junior speaking )
“May I print a kiss on your lips?” he said
She nodded her sweet permission.
So they went to press, and I rather guess
They printed a full edition.

“But one edition is hardly enough,”
She said, with a charming pout;

So the forms were set once more in place
And they got some extras out.

Since it fell to my lot to write the history of our class
for the 1932 Quips and Cranks, | am going to throw two
stones at one bird, and print below the same short his-
tory.

THE RISE AND SHINE OF THE CLASS OF
THIRTY-THREE

With three-fourths of its journey completed, the class
of '33 pauses briefly to take a fleeting glimpse into its
life of yesteryear. A life so rich in activity and full of
never-to-be-forgotten experiences that nothing short of a
volume would suffice for a complete class history. This
writing must speak for the class as a whole; individual
experiences as numerous as the tolls of the Chambers
bell since the advent of our class in 1929, must henceforth
remain a closed volume, except to those of our group for
whom they will always remain as cherished memories.

A brief glance shows the pre-eminence of our class of
“Jolly Juniors’—turn tho you may to athletics, scholar-
ship; or activities. The class of '33 continues to consti-
tute the backbone of our teams on grid, diamond, court,
mat, cinder path, and hardwood floor. The class is, as
well, the stabilizing element in campus thought, unde-
niably a leader in scholastic achievement, and unusually
well represented in every phase of extra-curricular activ-
ity. To see the calibre and attainment of '33 it is not
necessary to look far back. A look at the class now as
the year ends shows it in the full blown flower of its
progress and leadership—with scores of men who, as the
year wanes, stand out for this reason or that, many on
the varsity teams, many on the honor roll, and many
others outstanding in still other phases of endeavor.

New Chambers was completed in 1929. Our class, the
first’ privileged group of Freshmen to enjoy it, has not
ceased to bring honor upon its halls and classrooms (and
give its fine steps a deeper, more rounded appearance).
We pride ourselves as the first group to abolish that
period of ordeal for the Freshmen called Soph Day, and
a beautiful tree flourishes in front of Chambers now,
which we planted on the last Soph Day in the, college’s
history—as an ever-increasing, resplendant tribute to that
great class to whom be due laudation and fame, the
class of '33!

A TOAST TO ’33

Here’s to the Class of ’33,

The apple of Davidson's eye;
Here’s to the Jolly Juniors,

And the Spirit of “Never say die.”

Here’s to the Class of '33,
Here’s to that noble band—

Here's to the Jolly Juniors,
The best class in the land!

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

(This little note comes from the city in Alabama which
is the dentists’ heaven—where the Tuscaloosa.)
Dear Dorothy Hix:

I am a young girl in the late ‘teens. I have an invita-
tion to come to Davidson for “JUNIOR SPEAKING”
on the week-end of March the 9th. What kind of a cli-
mate do you have up there? Should I bring a fur coat?
Is ice skating in vogue now up North there in David-
Just what should I Qfing to wear?

(Signed)

son?
“Perplexed.” #
Perplexed :

Thanks very much for the letter and the enclosed pic-
ture. Judging from the picture, you had better forget
about evening dresses, fur coats, and the like, and bring
along a troop of Boy Scouts to keep the crowds back.
My advice is for you not to come at all, You shouldn't
do anything to keep the other girls from getting a rush.

You would do well to bring a gondola, as it seems that
we are going to continue to have typical weather.

: Dorothy Hix (by slashed wire special
to this column.)

PARTING ADVICE
—Put a little water on your comb—

My Tale is told.
