THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

The Pabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS’ OF 1915

-SUBSCRIPTION. RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT. Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON. " B Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLA Managing Editor
A, F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON. ...-Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS. Managing Editor
ODI CASALI Athletic Editor
. EL KE..... xchange Editor
+ OW. ITE F Editor
. S. GAMBLE...-..-. at ~Feature Editor
¥ T. GOODYKOONTZ..........---..--.---.- Contributing Editor
. A. HANCOCK. eview Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Editor
R, L. McCALLIE As te Editor
C. F. MYERS. Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF ;
Wr Ti BNSON Assi Busi
A, H. IPiNs Assi it Busi Mt nag
ALVIN BAYER, JRIBSoee Ss esa sse eee eeereacaat solicitor
Bak Bonetlas ete
G, L, GREEN ---- Solicitor
W._P._ SPRUNT. olicitor
Lk ON Svante ate
E, WHIT icitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. LAKE... P; di
. S. GAMBLE -Vice- president
LEWIS Aga Secretary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN . L. McCLINTO
R. a “ALDERMAN » Le Mell WINEN

G. LY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C.’E: NORVELL
. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTON
S. K. EATON P, M. ROGERS
J, B FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLE T, H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
- & HENRY K, D. WEEKS
j, 4 HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E, LORRAINE W._T: THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD. } W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS
———————$————— — ——n"'n eens

NOVEMBER 2, 1932

ee
~ Destiny bears us to our lot,-and destiny is per-
haps our own will—Disraeli.

De
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Many of our students were surprised to find that
we have over one hundred students who would vote
the Republican ticket if they had the chance. A
three to one majority is not especially impressive for
a college in this section of the country which is nor-
mally nearly all Democratic. .

pmeeney RM Ie

Despite the small score, Saturday’s game was most
interesting from the standpoint of the spectator.
There were more thrills in that game than in many

others we have seen when touchdowns came much
oftener.

NES yen
Last Saturday brought more upsets than any other
week-end this Few expected that Pitt would

to whip N. C. State. We have no doubt that the
Tennessee supporters at Knoxville were very thank- _
ful for their three*point margin over Duke.

The kicking of Pearce verged on the spectacular
several times in the Clemson game. He also did some
extraordinarily good running.

a eeeea py SS

With just N. C. Stal Carolina, and Wake Forest
remaining on our schedule we hope that Buddy Gard-
ner, Wingfield; and Hand will speedily recover so that
they can enter the lineup. All the strength we pos-
‘sess will be needed in these games.

D

The talk in Vespers Sunday night by Mr. Tom
Glasgow ‘of Charlotte was one of the most inspiring
addresses that we've heard this year.

See ta

Ole Miss deserves a lot of ‘credit in the game with
Auburn this past Saturday.: Ole Miss led Auburn at
the beginning of the fourth quarter. The Plainsmen
had to resort to the air, gaining their winning touch-
down in the closing moments of the game.

D.

The. sportsmen of Bristol are asking for a post-

season game in their city between V. P. I. and Ten-

Despite their defeat at the hands of U. N. C.,
N. C. State will be one of the hardest games we will
Let’s back the team to the fullest.

—D.

Percy McElrath has performed nobly this season
to fill in for Buddy.Gardner who was injured in the
The loss of J. B. Lee for the season

We've heard a number of the members of the
Senior class say that they would like to have Dr.
Swan return to the campus and give some lectures
of the same type which he delivered to the students
here two years ago. He is an excellent speaker and
could give us a great deal which would be beneficial.

—D.

we are sure that the Davidson students enjoyed
the recent visit of our trustees to the campus for
their short stay.

DRAMATICS AT DAVIDSON

On Wednesday evening the Red and Black
Masquers open their season with a presenta-
tion of three one-act plays in Chambers Audi-
torium.

Dramatics struggle for a none too promi-
nent place on the Davidson campus. Unlike
athletics, the publications, debating, there are
no funds appropriated by the college for the
work. Thus the activity is somewhat limited
as there are no means for purchasing scenery,
costumes, make-up, or books of plays. Just
as much as other campus activities, dramatics
demand a large amount of the student’s time
and effort. A classical college as large as Da-
vidson should encourage worthwhile study: in
the production of drama. Acting creates a cer-

tain amount of poise and self-control as well

as sympathy and understanding in impersonat-
ing other characters. Some of the noblest
masterpieces of literature are plays and their
intelligent presentation is interesting and stim-
ulating... The pure fascination for the foot-
lights can be converted into a worthy use of
leisure time. After ¢ollege there usually come
opportunities to work in Little Theatres, or
similar organizations. The Little Theatre is
becoming quite typical in the American city
and these conscientious groups are centers of
culture and aesthetic appreciation. Dramatics
develop the critical power to judge what is
good-in the fields of radio and talking pictures.
Time spent on college dramatics is a wise in-
vestment in artistic taste and future benefits.

At the present time there is waging a con-
flict between good and bad drama. Never be-
fore has there been such a crying need for
wholesome amusement. If clean and superior
drama is encouraged in the colleges, the com-
ing years will see the stage casting away
sordidness and regaining »its dignity and high
place among the arts.

The coming dramatic club productions, al-
though far from perfection, are at least
worthy of attention. The wholehearted sup-
port of the student body will show the Masq-
ers that their efforts are appreciated and they
will be encouraged to more ambitious under-
takings.

E. A. HANCOCK.

FALL SERVICES

Twice a year, once im the fall and once in

the spring;~somedistinguished ministers}

brought to the Davidson campus by the Y. M.
C. A. to-hold a series of talks and conferences.
We have many religious exercises at Davidson,
but these two services held twice yearly are
always very popular with the students. One
reason for the popularity is that an outstand-
ing man is always chosen. Among those who
have spoken in the past are Dr. William An-
derson, Dr. C. F. Myers, Dr. S. M. Glasgow,
and many others of that same caliber, and this
fall will prove no exception. Dr. Dwight
Chalmers of Charlottesville, Virginia, will be
the leader of the fall services which will be
held later on in the month. He is a young man
with a brilliant mind, and those ‘who know
him personally feel confident that he will fill
a.definite need at Davidson. A man must pos-
sess ability and personality and religious con-
victions to interest any group as large as the
Davidson student body, when he must speak
to them twice a ‘day for three or four days
straight and have personal conferences in be-
tween times. The men we have had in the
past have lived up to this requirement and we
know that Dr. Chalmers will have a great in-
fluence over this student body. Something
else is needed, however, before the desired
results can be obtained, This speaker, or arty
other, must have the entire co-operation. of
the student obdy. Attendance at these serv-
ices has always been very good in the past,
and for any results to be achieved the atténd-
ance must bé kept up to a high level.

We come to college admittedly to gain all
we can culturally, physically, sociallly, and
spiritually ; and to gain a complete education
none of these should be neglected. We have
chances every day for spiritual development
along with the rest of these, but rarely do we
get.as splendid an opportunity as this, and to
miss these fall services or any one of them is
to do ourselves a great injustice.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

University of North Carolina

The final result of the straw vote at Carolina for
the present Presidential election was Roosevelt, 240;
Thomas, 179; Hoover, 82.

The German Club of Carolina will put on a series
of dances on November 18th and 19th: There will
be a dance on Friday afternoon, one Friday night,
and one Saturday night.

Georgia Tech |
The Student-Faculty Committee of Tech has
passed a ruling on the dishonest work of the students
in classes. This inaugurates the honor system at
Tech.

Clemson
To those who might be interested in taking in a
few of the Clemson dances, here is a list of their

_ dances for 1932-33:

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

Now that the Red and Black Masquers are about
to present their first series of plays this year, it
might be well for the stage managers to observe

_ what happened at Minnesota University in order to

prevent any similar-occurrence-here--At—Minnesota,
the dramatic club was presenting a melodramatic
play which had a scene of a burning tenement house.
In order to get realism into the play, the stage man-
ager asked some national guardsmen for some kind
of smoke-making apparatus. ‘He was supplied with
smoke bombs. Little did the innocent student man-
ager realize that one bomb would give off enough
smoke-to cover a forty-acre field. During the play,
when the tenement fire scene approached, the prop-
erty man lit the bomb, and soon the black clouds
filled the whole theatre, choking the spectators and
making everybody in general miserable. The play
went on, and it is said that the same manager, not
yet recovered from the smoke incident, committed
the stage manager’s mistake so frequently shown in

comedy. He produced a heavy confetti snow storm

*in the midst of the love scene.

Difference of political views caused the beating of
four American students at the University’ of Vienna
recently. The cause of all the trouble was the fact
that the Americans did not wear the Fascist emblem.
It has been said that the terrorizing of students not
wearing the Fascist emblem is a frequent occurrence.
As a result of the attack upon the Americans, the
head of the university as well as the Austrian Chan-
cellor went to the American embassy and apologized
for the conduct of the students of the university.

Many and varied are the reports from Russia upon
the financial, industrial, and sociological conditions in
that country. Some reports picture Russia as an ap-
proach to Utopia, with everyone happy, unselfish, and
working under good conditions for the common good.
Other observers of Russia describe the Five Year
Plan as a strong tyrant, oppressing the people and
driving from them all individualism. One of the re-
ports of the latter type was recently made by an

_ American woman, Paula Leclerc, who has just re-

turned from travelling in Russia, not guided by Soviet
tourist guides, but free to go whére she wanted. She
described the position of the Soviet women as tragic.
“The whole system of civilization has crashed about
the heads of’ Russia’s women. ... They exist wretch-
edly under a system of cajolery and coercion, bereft
of all feminine consideration, and worked like serfs
by the government. ... They are spiritually starved,
and the hideous thing is that they know it. They
are aware of their degeneration, Everything they
value as women has been wiped away in the name

_ of progress and they are a broken-hearted lot.” Of

course this is the opinion of only one woman, and
there have been other women who have praised the
present Russian system, so the American citizen, pre-
sented with so many conflicting descriptions, does
not know what.to believe. It is an established fact
that Russia has advanced along economic lines.

The Minneapolis police are rejoicing over one prod-
uct of the depression.
municipal police force had been planning on con-
ducting a school for the removal of extra inches from
the waists of their police. The depression, with the
resulting shortage of funds in the department, put
an end to the plans. The fat police had resisted the
move all along, contending that they were more effi-
cient when they were “fat and comfortable” than if
they were “slender and hungry.”

Rena, the divorce. capital of the United States, had
better look to its laurels, for it has recently been
found that a great many cases which formerly would
have been tried in Reno are now being tried in small
Nevada county~seats, far away from’ the swarms of
lawyers, news reporters, and all the publicity which
goes with Reno divorces. Two of these rural divorce
centers are Minden and Fallon, Nevada, which are
little more than cross-roads with courthouses. It is

Senior Dance—November 11.
Junior Dance—November 25.
Sophomore Dance—December. 16.
Military Ball—January 13.
Mid-Winter Prom—February 10.
Athletic Ball—March 10.
Junior-Senior—April 14.

Taps Ball—May 12,

Three Finals—June 2, 3, 5.

Florence State Teachers College

Here’s a little puzzle that you might work out in
your sparetime; figure it out if you can, we haven’t
as yet: ;

A brakeman, a fireman, and an engineer are em-
ployed on a train. Their names are Robinson, Smith,
and Jones, NOT RESPECTIVELY. On this same
train are three passengers with the same names, Rob-
inson, Smith, and Jones, hereafter referred to-as-Mr.
to distinguish them from the three trainmen.

1. Mr. Robinson lives in Detroit.

2. The brakeman lives halfway between Detroit
and Chicago.

3. Mr. Jones earns exactly $2,000 per year.

4. The brakeman’s nearest neighbor, who is one
of the three passengers, earns exactly three times
as much as the brakeman,

5. Smith beat the fireman at billards.

6. The passenger living iff Chicago has the same
name as the brakeman,

QUESTION: WHAT IS THE ENGINEER’S
NAME?

fed-than taught.”

The powers- that-be of the:

an interesting exhibit 6f the various stages of
book making at the library. It shows the process
from the time the book is printed until it is bound in
its leather jacket. You simply must run up and take
a look at this display before it’s too late!

. friends congratulating Ernest Milton who served
up until a short time ago as our efficient alumni sec-
retary. It’s a girl. Of course it is not necessary to
say they are as proud of her as they can be.

o

. good-natured Mrs. Smith looking for her tele-
phone book up in the parlor of Watts. While search-
ing for it-she-declared* that when she” found: it “she
was going to tie it to her desk so that it would be
there when she wanted it.

—L

. John Miller, Junior transfer from Citadel, leave
his room at 2:00 o’clock for the game Saturday. He
is not taking any more chances for he was locked in
his dorm and missed a game once.

a group of students mail a wedding present to
a popular member of the faculty who has just mar-
ried. They said they would have sent it sooner but
they didn’t know anything about his plans.

. and heard that Sid Tomlinson is the one#who
had the patience to figure how many holes there are
in the roof of Chambers. There are 6,467,312, We
won't dispute it!

. a real joke sprung by a student last week.
This student suffers from obesity. After a partic-
ularly unsuccessful recitation in English, the Prof.
said, “It’s too bad Mr. So-and-So. You are better
“That’s right, Prof., you’re teach-
ing me—I feed myself.”

. the Selwyn Entertainers put on a good per-
formance Saturday night. I went thinking twenty
seconds of it would be enough. Perhaps ten seconds.
:I hadn’t the slightest idea it would be so good!

. Jack Stewart get his left beamer closed tight
in a touch football classic one afternoon last week.
Thursday night he asked the pretty lady at the local
cinema to let him in for half,price., I'd heard of it
happening but I never thought it would come to
pass. She said, “I’m sorry, but I can’t do that.”

.a party discussing my future career. He thinks
that since I have such an unconquerable fancy for
minding other people’s business I ought to be a law-
yer. While I’m at it I might as well get paid for it
sure enough. I’ve climbed fences, listened at key-
holes, entered rooms unannounced, for the sake of
this column. Indeed I’ve poked my nose into every
nook and cranny on this campus with utter sang-
froid, just for you newsmongers.

. a group assemble at the Goldieres’ Saturday
night for a Hallowe’en party. I hear the high spot
of the evening was a piano duet by Professor and
Mrs. Goldiere.

©. Davidson students attending the performance
at the Carolina Theater raise the roof when a Da-
vidson pennant appeared during a college medley.

. little Peggy Beaty celebrating her birthday by
a party at the home of her parents on Concord Ave-
nue Saturday afternoon. They played games on the
lawn and “the refreshments were delicious.”
TIP POFF.

said that recently several prominent New York wom-
en took up residence in the villages and according
to the Nevada law, were granted divorces without
any news of their actions getting into the papers.

The Irish’do not have the great love for Admiral
Nelson, British hero of the great battle of Trafalgar,
which is present in the hearts of the English. Yet
in the center of Dublin stands a monument to the
hero, a monument similar to the one in Trafalgar
Square, London. The Irish Nationalists think that
the Nelson monument should be replaced by a statue

_ of some great Irish hero. In fact, an attempt was
made at one time to blow up the column. The ex-
plosion tore away part of one side of the base.. It
-seems that now the Irish may not have to resort to
force, but will be permitted to remove Nelson’s statue
from the top of the éolumn and-replace it with a
figure of an Irish hero.

Further diplomatic “correspondence between Ger-
many and France over the holding of a German war
prisoner until recently was brought to a close when
it was discovered that the subject of the controversy
was an impostor. This summer a man appeared in
Berlin, claiming that he was the last prisoner of war
to be released by the French. He claimed that he
had served in the German army, had been wounded
and captured by the French. They had sent him to
Africa as a prisoner and he had only recently been
freed. He had been able to get to Naples, Italy,”
where he visited the German minister, who gave him
transportation to Berlin. Recently, however, the po-
lice ceeereinay this was all a false story, and
that the “priafher” had been a poor tailor, a friend
of a man who disappeared during the war. He had
assumed the friend’s name and had used the story
to get back to Germany from Italy, where he had
gone from Germany. All his knowledge of Africa had

been obtained from picture post cards,
