THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1932

Davidson of Long Ago Engagement Alumni Deaths ALUMNI PERSONALS
May 3, 1928 Stone-Dupuy W. F. McQueen, '77 Alumni visitors to the campus during the past|dacy for sheriff of that county, but later with-

Thirteen leaders of campus activities and or-
ganizations were last night initiated into O.
D. K., national honorary fraternity. There were
two alumni included in this group, who were
J. M. Appleby, Florence, Ala., and Dr. William
Sayad, of West Palm Beach, Fla. The students
were: M. P. Crawford, Charlotte; C. R. Rowe,
Fredericksburg, Va.; J. S. Foster, Winston-
Salem; B. A. Wilson, Marion; A. N. Brown,
Mineral Wells, Texas; J. R. Covington,’ Rae-
ford; M. T. Gilmour, Wilmington; J. W. Mel-
ton, Decatur, Ga.; John Currie, Fayetteville;
M. M. King, Bristol, Tenn., and R. E. Kell,
Pascagoula, Miss.

In recognition \of their ability as writers and
journalists, J. L; Ely, F. D. Miller, C. M.
Pratt, and R. F. ‘Jarrett have been chosen to
wear the Golden Quill.

In the State Intercollegiate Oratorical Con-
test held at Duke University last Friday, Allan
Frew of Davidson College was awarded first
place over the entries from the other four state
colleges. Frew will represent Davidson in the
regional contest to be held in Greenville, S. C.,
on May 5th.

Friday evening, W. L. Dumas, of Talladega,
Ala., took first place in the annual Junior Ora-
torical Contest held in Shearer Hall as a fea-
ture of the Junior Speaking week-end. Dumas’
subject was “The Individuality of Americans.”

John Currie’s dashes were a feature of the
meet with the South Carolina Gamecocks here
Saturday. Heath Whittle also starred, setting
a new record for the high hurdles of 15.5 sec-
onds, Davidson won by the close score of 6914
to 56%.

The Wildcats have signed for a game with
the United States Military Academy for Octo-
ber, 1929. On October 12, Younger and Tilson
will lead a determined band to West Point and
with that band will go the hopes of Davidson
for national recognition.

A. L. Mills has been elected the new golf
captain for the coming year.

May 1, 1923
C. M. S. McIlwaine, editor-in-chief of the
Davidsonian, and K. S. McAlpine, business
manager, left today to attend the spring con-
vention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association.

Last Thursday afternoon the old and the new
cabinets of the Y. M. C. A. held a delightful
Picnic in Jetton’s pasture. Warren Cox acted as
chief cook and Professor Fleagle and Mr. Jack-
son acted as his most valuable assistants.

The new, Student Council was installed after
chapel Monday morning. Albert Hillhouse, re-
tiring president, gave the new men the oaths
of office. The new members are: Hendrix,
chairman; Beall, Patton, Sappenfield, Shaw,
Hollingsworth, Covington, Pinkney, and Chris-

:

tian. ’

Quips and Cranks

1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929
$5.00 each or $18.00
for the four

P. O. Box 173,
Rose Hill, N. C.

-NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

Davidson Men Are Invited
To Visit Our Shop

Prompt Service |

“Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Stone, of Greensboro,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Elizabeth Eller, to George Ruffin Dupuy, also
of Greensboro, the wedding to take place in late
summer.” :

Mr. Dupuy graduated from Davidson in 1924,
and since then has been connected with the
North Carolina Bank and Trust Company in
Greensboro. Miss Stone is a Phi Beta Kappa
graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman's College
at Lynchburg, Va.

Howell-Alexander —

“Mrs. Benjamin C. DeWeese, of Lexington,
Ky., announces the engagement of her daugh-
t’., Elizabeth Howell, to Rev. Harry Alexander,
of Charlotte, and Carlisle, Ky., the date of the
wedding to be announced later.”

Mr. Alexander is a 1925 alumnus of Davidson,
and after leaving here he attended the University
of Louisville, and later Louisville Presbyterian
Theological Seminary, from which he graduated
two years ago. Since then he has been pastor
of the Presbyterian Church at Carlisle, Ky.

Hunter-Branch

“Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Hunter, of Atlanta, Ga.,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Katherine, to William Harllee Branch, Jr., also
of Atlanta, Ga., the wedding to be solemnized
June 8th in the North. Avenue Presbyterian
Church in Atlanta.”

Mr. Branch graduated from Davidson in 1927,
and during one year was assistant alumni sec-
retary and assistant director of the Davidson
Press Bureau. He then went to the law school
of Emory University, from which he graduated
last June, and is now connected with the law
firm, Colquitt, Parker, Troutman and Ark-
wright in Atlanta. Miss Hunter attended Agnes
Scott.

Duncan-Rose

“Dr. and Mrs. Chas. L. Duncan, of Beaufort,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Grace, to Augustus Stoole Rose, of Fayetteville,
the wedding to take place in June.”

Mr. Rose is a 1928 alumnus of Davidson, and
left here to take up his medical preparation at
the University of North Carolina. Completing
his B.S. degree there in 1930, he went on to
Harvard, where he will graduate next June.
After graduation he will be connected with the
Massachusetts General» Hospital in Boston. At
both . Carolina and Harvard, Mr. Rose held
teaching fellowships. Miss Duncan is a graduate
of St. Mary’s Junior College, and obtained her
bachelor of arts degree from the University of
North Craolina.

Franklin Fricker, ’21, of Birmingham, Mich.,
who wrote a rather unique announcement of the
birth of a son, recently wrote that “although he
showed signs of being in the Austin class at
birth, he now seems to be heading for the
Buick bracket.” Mr. Fricker is connected with
the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation and does sales
promotion work by delivering lectures through-
out America. '

William Flagg McQueen, 1877 alumnus of
Davidson, died at his home in Morven on April
26th, following a long period of failing health.
Mr. McQueen entered Davidson from Cheraw,
S. C.,, but after leaving here he settled in Mor-
ven, where he was a prominent farmer and citi-
zen of that section. Among the survivors are
Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05, of Fulton, Mo.

J. E. Watts, ’86

John Espy Watts, 1886 graduate of David-
son, and for the past ten years president of
Southwestern Presbyterian Home and School
for Orphans at Itasca, Texas, died at his home
there on April 23rd-after an illness of eight-
een months. Mr. Watts entered Davidson from
Mooresville and for a while after graduation
he taught school at Mills River Academy and
at Jackson, Ga. He then practiced law for a
period at Statesville.

Mr. Watts went west to the Indian Reserva-
tion at Wapanucka, Okla., in 1903, and was
connected with the Kaufman schools that year,
In 1906 he went to Cameron, Texas, where he
spent 14 years, two years as principal of the
high school and then for 12 years as superin-
tendent. For the next four years he was super-
intendent of schools in Taylor, and for seven
‘onsecutive summers he was a member of the
summer school faculty of Baylor University.

In 1922 he became president of the institu-
tion at Itasca, which is controlled by the Synods
of Texas and Oklahoma. Three brick buildings
were added to the plant during his presidency
and the number of children had been increased
about 25 per cent.

Dr. R. F. Flowe, ’10

Dr. Robert Francis Flowe, 1910 alumnus of
Davidson, died in the Jefferson Hospital in
Philadelphia on April 30th, following an illness
of several months. At the time of his death, he
was’ a practicing physician at Kannapolis, and
was the oldest physician there in point of serv-
ice, though only 43 years of age.

Dr. Flowe was a native of the town of Da-
vidson, and after taking a two-year pre-medical
course at the college, he continued his medical
training at the North Carolina Medical College,
then located in Charlotte. He started his prac-
tice in Kannapolis in 1913, where he remained
continuously until his death. He was active in
church and civic affairs, and a member of the
Railway Surgeons Medical Association.

Among’ his survivors are Rev. J. E. Flowe,
D.D., 1900, of Davidson, and C. B. Flowe, ’07,
of Richmond, Va.

P. L. Sutton, ’28

Paul Leo Sutton, a 1928 alumnus of Davidson,
died in a Richmond, Va., hospital about three
months ago as the result of the explosion of
a gas stove. Mr. Sutton was alone in a camp
when the fatal accident happened. Motorists saw
a flaming figure rushing to the river to quench
the flames, and after assisting him out, they
took him to a hospital, where the seriousness o
the injuries resulted in death. Mr. Sutton e

tered Davidson from Lake Waccamaw.

~ JO JONES CO
“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
TO COLLEGE MEN
208 South Tryon Street Charlotte

week have included E. H. Garrison, '97, of
Salisbury; Rev. W. S. Patterson, ’03, Clover,
S. C.; S. V. Daniel, '09, Huntington, W. Va.;
Karl Sherrill, ’12, Statesville; J. C. Fowler,
26, Statesville; Rev. J. H. Caligan, ’27, Val-
dese; R. H. Hayes, ’29, Hudson; Francis Ghigo,
’29, Valdese; Alan Frew, ’30, Greensboro, and
T. M. Hunter, ’31, Blenheim, S. C.

Friends will regret to hear of the death of
R. D. Rowan, father of Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D.,
04, of Concord, and Rev. C. H. Rowan, ’15,
of Paw Creek.

Davis Robinson, ’23, proprietor of the Art
Flower Shop in Charlotte, is one of 14 candi-
dates for the Mecklenburg Board of County
Commissioners. Two years ago he missed elec-
tion by a small number of votes. Dr. S. M. Hen-
derson, '93, of Charlotte, is another Davidson
alumnus who is a candidate for that body.

William H. Neal, ’17, of the personnel depart-
ment of the Wachovia Bank & ‘Trust Company
of Winston-Salem, has been elected one of the
vice-presidents of the Winston-Salem Civitan

Club.

Under the heading, {Reminiscences of Char-
lotte,” The Charlotte, Observer last Sunday
printed an account of the life of the late Col.
Wm. S. Pearson, ’67, who entered Davidson at
the early age of 13. He developed to be one
of the brilliant writers of the South, and a
leader in many fields.

Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., ’30, of Charlotte,
and Mrs. Ann Cannon Reynolds, of Concord,
will be married at ‘4 o'clock this afternoon at
Blowing Rock.

John A. Preston, ’32, who transferred from
Davidson to the University of North Carolina,
was one of the 41 university students elected to
Phi Beta Kappa there last week.

James A. Abernethy, Jr., 19, former mayor
of Lincolnton, last. week announced his candi-

drew his name when business developments
made it impossible for him to run.

Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ’11, president of Flora
Macdonald College, delivered the baccalaureate
sermon to the graduates of Jonesboro High
School.

James C. Harper, ’15, has resigned as prin-
cipal of the Lenoir High School in order that
he might devote all of his time to instructing
the Lenoir Band, which has developed a na-
tion-wide reputation.

Dr. John T, Burrus, 1900, president of the
N. C. Board of Health, spoke last Monday be-
fore members of the North Carolina Dental So-
ciety at its meeting held in Elizabeth City. His
subject was, “North Carolina Dental Society's
Relation to Public Health.”

The April 27th issue of the column, “Look-
ing Backward,” that appears daily in The Char-
lotte Observer, had the following item, under
the sub-head, “Twenty Years Ago”:

DAVIDSON—Dr. Thomas W. Lingle,
who expects to tour parts of Europe this
summer at the head of a_ bicycle | party,
states that his number is complete. Among
those who have signed up for. the trip are
J. T. Wearn and J. W. Gibbon, both of
Charlotte.

It is regretted by this departmeft that The
Observer did not give the full list of names,
but gave only those from Charlotte. Dr. Jos.
T. Wearn, ’13, is now dean of the medical
department of Western Reserve University, and
Dr. Jas. W. Gibbon, ’14, is practicing in Char-
lotte.

Henry M. Alexander, ’26, has been awarded
the Gregory Fellowship in Political Science at
the University of Missouri. Mr. Alexander is
now studying at that university, and will con-
tinue his work under the Gregory Fellowship.

re)

“DRUGS”

Students

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.

re
“SODA”

’ Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

Ae)

The

DIRECTOR OF THE SCHOOL
1300 York Avenue:

———

New York Hospital
School of Nursing

OUD

New York City

Seniors!

See P. M. CONWAY or D. G.
Representing

GARLAN

GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for

COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
Prices $2.50 and $3.00

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MARTIN

D COURT

