THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

Cinisedn Beck Advises
Preparedness for Men
Entering Into Business

Personnel Director of New York Stock
Exchange Addressed Student Body
Here Saturday

On Saturday morning at the chapel service,
Mr. Cameron Beck, personnel director of the
New York Stock Exchange, addressed the stu-
dent body. The speaker was introduced by Mr.
Williams, professor of business administration.

Mr. Beck began his speech by saying that the
America of today is not the America of five
years ago. Economic conditions have caused
students to think in more serious terms from
cost. Mr. Beck said he came as a business ex-
ecutive, but if he had the opportunity to do it
over he would be a teacher or a preacher, He
said that this calling in life probably did more
for humanity than any other.

As personnel man in his firm, he said he had
found out that the employees had to grow or

“Main Street” Is Topic
Of Dr. Myers’ Sermon
For ‘Y’ Spring Services

Mrs. Farrell Renders Two Numbers in
Song Service Led by William
Rule

Dr. C. F. Myers, second speaker for the an-
nual Spring Services, spoke on Monday night
in Chambers Auditorium on the topic, “Main
Street.” The song service was led. by William
Rule. Mrs.. Farrell sang two solos, accompanied
by Edward McNair. The speaker was intro-
duced by William Rule.

Dr. Myers pointed out in the first part of his
sermon that he intended to speak on the truly
great “main streets” of the world. He said that
although there were many “main streets” in
the United States and elsewhere which were
important, there were such “main streets” as

the Pilgrims to Massachusetts. He said that the

roadway of our country is filled with schools
go. If they grew it was because they were pre- |

and colleges and prosperity and panic. Dr. My-

pared; if they had to. go it was on account of |ers also pointed out that it is the street of con-

lack of preparedness. Rockefeller, when asked | trast. At one end is found the sunset; there are

people there who are making money; there is
cess comes to the man that does the common |

things uncommonly well.” The dean of New|!

how to be a success in business, replied: “Suc-

York banks said that hard work was the surest
means of success.

Mr. Beck said that other failures of employees |
were due to the fact that they had lied on their |

application blanks. Seventy-five per cent of peo-
ple who apply for jobs lie on their application
cards, Honesty is an indispensible essential to
success. We must be honest to our parents, our |
teachers and to ourselves if we wish to advance. |
Other essentials to success, Mr. Beck said,
are courtesy and cleanliness. We should always |
act gentlemanly and should keep tidy and clean |
about our person. Cleanliness, however, does not |
necessitate extravagant quality of clothing.
Punctuality also has great influence upon suc-
cess. Now is a good time to train to be punc- |
tual.

In his conclusion Mr. Beck cited that the |
Bible was the Great Book of Efficiency. He |
said a constant study of the Bible would help |
Prepare us for success. Start thinking now, Mr. |
Beck said, as we must live our own lives. Have
a plan, a purpose, perseverance, leadership, and
the passion for right living, and we are on the
right road to success. Mr. Beck concluded by
saying he was issuing “a challenge to dedica-
tion of life of service to benefit of mankind.”

Gardner Green, a graduate of Davidson Col-
lege now in the employment of Mr. Beck's firm,
was said by him to be doing very well.

Officers for Rising
Soph Class Elected

Brown, Wadsworth and Weeks Are
Officers Elected to Positions

During the last two weeks, beginning Thurs-
day, April 14, the annual election of officers for
the rising Sophomore class was held. Skip
Brown was elected president; Joe Wadsworth,
vice-president, and Kenneth Weeks, secretary-
treasurer, Besides these, two men were chosen
as members of the Student Council for next
year, who, with the president of the class, will
compose the future Sophomores on the Council.
These were Duke Glasgow and Fred McPhail.

In the nominations from the committee, head-
ed by Sam Wiley, Senior head of the present
Freshman class, the following were chosen for
the race:

For president, Skip Brown, Mims Rogers,
and Walter Sprunt; for vice-president, Joe
Wadsworth, Dewey Hutchnis, and A. J.. Pot-
ter; for secretary-treasurer, Kenneth Weeks,
George Gullette, and Bob Coit. In the nomina-
tions from the floor, the following were also
chosen: For president, Rufus Page; for vice-
president, Jim Batte; for secretary-treasurer,
Charlie Harris, Dudley Elvery, and Johnny
Mackorell.

In the first ballot for president, all except
Skip Brown and Mims Rogers were eliminated,
Brown being elected on the second.

For vice-president all except Wadsworth and
Hutchins were eliminated, Wadsworth being
elected on the second vote.

Weeks, Gullette, and Coit survived the first
cast in the race for secretary-treasurer; Weeks
and Gullette, the third, and on the fourth Weeks
was elected.

The following were nominated for Student
Council representatives: Glasgow, Fred Mc-
Phail, Dewey Hutchins, Joe Wadsworth, Billy
Northern, and Teil Rogers. Glasgow, McPhail,
and Hutchins remained after the first ballot
and Hutchins was eliminated on the third, Glas-
gow and McPhail being elected.

For the past year the Freshman class has
been run on a different plan. By open vote it
‘was decided not to elect officers for this year
but to choose some upperclassman to represent
them, calling all the meetings, appointing com-
mittees, etc. Sam Wiley was chosen to fill this
Position, this consequently giving him charge
over the above elections. The newly elected
_ Officers will assume their respective duties next

Henry Ford, who has cluttered the streets. with
cars, and there is the lower end where are the
great masses of people.

The important thing, according to Dr. Myers,
is to influence the street rather than have the
street influence you. Those people who live at
the lower end of the street are there because
the mysterious make-up of their brain keeps
them there. That kind of people is not the kind
which influences the other end of the street.
They must move up. Through the example of
Jesus we learn how to help them to move up.

In forgiving the woman who washed his feet |~

while He was at the house of Simon, He was
helping her to move up. It was then that He
told His parable of the forgiven debts:

Dr. Myers showed that the street is a cross
section of life. It wants many things, but it
needs only one. The question to the college man
is whether he will settle down to conquer sin or
be conquered by sin. Little devils are easy to
control, but big ones present graver problems.
Success is dependability and not talent; it is
moral and not-mental. Dr. Myers related the
inspiring “story. of the: Japanese boy who, while
still young, gave his life to his people. He, Dr.
Myers, told of how Sati fell upon his sword.
We are sharpening swords: to succeed we must
not put them aside. We, like the youth who for
the sake of his king's message sacrificed his
hands, must sacrifice, if we let the message of
Christ our King go through us.

Dr. Myers’ sermon had been pleasantly antici-
pated by all the students who had heard him
before, and it was not only of great interest but
of much help.

Morgan Leads Fresh
In Batting Averages

Only three members of the Freshman baseball
team had an average of .300 or better after the
Wildkittens’ first six games. Morgan, third base-
man; Morris, first baseman, and Mackorell,
shortstop, stand out as the only members who
have been able to hit opposing hurlers with
any degree of success.

Morgan, who has played only in the Wild-
kittens’ home games, has possession of the lead-
ing place with five hits in ten tries for a .500
average. Morris, with 11 safeties in 23 tries,
is next with an average of .478, while Mackorell,
with seven hits in 22 tries, follows with .318.

Mackorell and Baumgardner lead in scoring
with six runs apiece, while Morris and Rogers
are next with five runs each. Mackorell also
has possession of first in extra base knocks with
a total of 14 bases.

Stolen base honors go to Morris and Rogers,
who have pilfered three bases each.

Freshman batting averages:

those which led the Spaniards to America and?

Examination Schedule--2nd Semester--Session ’31-’32

| A,M, examinations begin at 9:00

P.M. examinations begin at 2:00

May | Freshman l Sophomore Junior and Senior
| AM. | German A | German 1 ‘Polit. Science 4. Philosophy 2.
Fri. | | Education 2, German 2, 3, 4.
ee | | Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Geology 1.
| P.M. Psychology 4, Polit. Science 2.
Sat. | A.M. R. O. T. C1 R,.O. T. C. 2 | ROT GC, 3) 4 Spanish: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
a | P.M. | French A, 1 French 1, 2. |, French 3, 4, 5, 6. Economic Problems.
a | A.M.
es | Polit. Science 1, Education 3,
| P.M Philosophy 3, Applied Math. 2.
re ave Math. 1 Math. 2 Math. 3, 4. Sociology, English 3, 6, 8, 9.
| BERT ETA
ve | | Polit. Sc. 3, Psychology 2, Business 1
P.M. | | Geology 2, Physical Education
Wed. t A.M. Biology 2A, | Educ. 4, Economics 2, Psychology 1.
25 pM. | History 1 History 1 | History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7.
| _
Business 2, Applied Math, 1.
A.M. | Economics 1.
Thu. |
26 P.M. Latin A, t Latin 1, 2 | Latin 3, 4. Business 3, Geology 3,
Astronomy. Philosophy 4.
ee A.M. | Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Economics 3
27 | pm. | Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
S | AM Biol. 2B, C, D | Biology 3, 4, 5, 6. Theory of Biology.
Satey osu
2 | py | Bible 1 Bible 2 | Bible 5, 6. Greek 3, 4, 5, 6.
M. |
piss eect |
Mon, | 4M. | |
30 |
P.M. | Greek 1 | Greek 2 |
a { ;
A.M. Spanish A | Spanish 1 |
Tue. ; na |
31 P.M. English 1 English 2 |
| | |
| | |

Plans Announced for

Ft. M’Clelland Camp

From June 9 to July 20 the annual summer
camp for advance R. O. T. C. will be. held
at Fort McClelland, which is seven miles from
Anniston, Alabama. This fort is a regular army
post now occupied by a regiment of anti-aircraft
post artillery, as the camp contain$“a large
aviation field.

Colonel Scott, head of the Davidson R. O.
T. C. unit, is to be again in charge of this six-
weeks’ session. Captain Blanton and Captain
Seifert, both officers with Colonel Scott here,
are to be there as staff officers.

At this session there are to be eight hundred
students representing the R. O. T. C. units in
the colleges ‘of Southeastern United States, of
which 30 will be from Davidson.

The work taken there will be entirely prac-
tical in contrast to the theoretical course as
taught here. The main items to be considered
are: Physical training, first aid, hygiene, mili-
tary administration, military supply, drill and
command, combat principles, marksmanship with
rifles, machine guns, and howitzer weapons, end-
ing with a practice march and an over-night
maneuver camp. On the rifle marksmanship
training, a week will be spent. In addition to the
regular R. O. T. C. training, organized athletics
will be held in the camp, such as baseball, box-
ing, swimming, track and field events, and rifle
matches.

Vesper Advance

Next Sunday evening at “Y” vespers,
Allan Frew will make the address. His
talk is anticipated with a great deal of “
interest because the speaker has al-
ways been very closely connected with
Davidson College. He graduated from
the college in the class of 1930. While
here he held several honors, some be-
ing: membership in O. D. K., member-
ship in the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, presi-
dent of his Freshman class, and a state
winner and national third place in the
National American Legion oratorical
contest. Frew is now pastor of the
“Church by the Side of the Road” in
Greensboro, N. C., although he has not

Player Ab R lbh 2bh 3bh Hr Pet.
Morgan -.-.10 4 3 0 1 1.500
Morris --_-- 23,770 7 2 1 1 478
Mackorell ..22 6 3 1 1 2 318
Weeks -..-- 15 4 2 1 1 0 .267
Rogers —---- PASO SN) 1 0 .259
Harris ----- 19142) 28 0 0 0 .231
Wingfield -.13 2 1 Biees 0 0 231
Lessem ---. 5 1 1 0 0 0 .200
Baumeg’dner 27 6 4 0 0 Leals5
Ravanel -..-18 3 257070 Oe lil
Burns ------ 20 3 1 0 oO 0 .050°
Keith _____- 1 OF 0-2 102 40) 0231000
Wilkes -___- | ee |) 0 0 .000
Becher ___-- $ 0 0 0 0O: —0—-.000
Koenig —---. 4 0 0 0 0 0 000
Everett ---.5 1 0 0 0 0 .000
Ashton -.... 7 0:..-0, 0: 0. 50,000
Totals -.216 43 33 6 5 5
Team batting: .227.

NORTHERN PREP SCHOOL

(Continued from page 4)
Present student body. Four have come from
Southern States, and nine from those in the
North and Middle West.

fall.

My we

yet attended theological seminary. He
hopes, however, to do so later.

Kappa Sigmas Down
Kappa Alpha Outfit

The annual spring baseball elimination tour-
nament among the ten Greek letter social fra-
ternities at Davidson began last Thursday with
a game between the Kappa Sigmas and Kappa
Alphas in which the former romped over the

latter by a 15-2 score. Bennet Moseley is cap-
tain of the Kappa Sigma team, while Everett

Hall leads the Kappa Alphas.

On every afternoon when the Freshman field
is available the teams will have tilts to finally
decide which fraternity excels on the diamond.
The next’ match will be between. the Theta
Upsilon Omegas and the Beta Theta’ -Pis. The
order of the other games will be: Phi Delta
Theta vs. Phi Gamma Delta; Sigma Phi Ep-
silon vs. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Pi Kappa
Phi vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.

Members. of all the teams have donned the
old gloves and have been working earnestly and
diligently for. several weeks, and keen competi-

clubs already show promise of being flashy
teams,

At a receht meeting of the Reporters’ Club
held Tuesday night, April 19, the officers for
the coming year* were elected and the new
members were initiated. The meeting ,.was
opened by the president, who proceeded with
the initiation ceremony. After this the floor was
opened for the nomination of officers. J. E.
Lake, of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president;
L. S. Gamble, Greenville, Miss., was elected
vice-president, and Lewis Gregg, of Ranger,
Texas, was elected to the secretaryship. The re-
tiring officers were A. H. Whitehead, president ;
J. E. Lake, vice-president, and W. F. Mulliss,
secretary-treasurer.

Y Complete Service

forSchool Publications

Catalous

Jieu Books

Queen Cily Printing@o.
Chuvlotte I? ¢

i)

tion is expected from all sides. Several of the,

Presbyterian Freshmen

Win Meet From ’Kittens

Visitors Cop Nine Firsts to Pile Up
Commanding Lead

Tuesday, April 19, the Freshman track team
of Presbyterian College met and defeated the
Davidson Wildkittens, at Davidson. The Fresh-
men of P. C. had an exceptionally strong team,
which was proved by the fact that the score
was 81-36. The visitors won nine out of the
thirteen first places and had shutouts in two
events, taking all three places in the javelin
throw and the broad jump.

Carothers led the scoring for the visitors with
17 points, while Potter came first for the Wild-
kittens with one first and one second for eight
points.

The results:

100-yard dash—Yearout, P. C., first; McEI-
reath, P. C, Hufford, D. Time: 10.5 seconds.

Mile run—McFadyen, D., first; John, P. C,
McDuffie, P. C. Time: 4:59.9.

220-yard dash—Yearout, P. C., first; McEI-
reath, P. C., Huffrod, D. Time: 23.3.

120-yard high hurdles—Dulin, D., first; Wal-
drop, P. C., Harris, D. Time: 17.

440-yard run—Clarke, P. C., first; Yearout,
P. C., Glasgow, D. Time: 52.6.

220-yard low hurdles—Carothers, P. C., first;
Perrin, P. C., Hufford, D. Time: 28.

880-yard run—Clarke, P. C., first; Rose, D.,
Dulin, D. Time: 2:9:3.

Shot put—Potter, D., first; Reeder, P. C.,,
McCaskill, P. C. Distance: 37 feet 4 inches.

Discus throw—Reeder, P. C., first; Potter,
D., West, D. Distance: 113 feet 7 inches.

Javelin throw—Reeder, P. C., first; Carothers,
P. C., McElreath, P. C. Distance: 152 feet 4
inches.

Pole vault—Underwood, P. C., and Carothers,
P. C,, tied for first; West, D. Height: 10 feet
9 inches.

High jump—Harris, D., first; Clarke, P. C.
and MclIlwinen, D., tied. Height: 5 feet 6 inches.

Broad jump—Carothers, P. C., first; Under-
wood, P. C., McCaskill, P. C. Distance: 19
feet.

JUSTIFIED PRIDE

(Continued from page 4)
continued their studies in other institutions, and
following their record throughout would give
you an exalted feeling that you are a Davidson
alumnus.

Review almost any professional field, or tarry
a while in any community in which there is
a centralized body of Davidson men, and you
would leave there with tears of joy in your
eyes and a warmer glow in your heart that you
are a Davidson man and are a part of that
great body of men who have left the walls of
this institution firmly determined that their life
shall not have been lived in vain.

What a massive portfolio it would be were
an exhaustive account prepared -on the life of
each man; if each activity he participates in
were listed, each office he has ever held in any
body! A minute study of this would be re-
vealing, it would be enthralling, it would be
inspirational. And such a review would be fully
convincing» that Davidson is justified in her
pride, a pride that sometimes may seem boast-
ful to those unfamiliar with the records, but
which nevertheless is backed up by fact.

Omission

Through an error last week the
names of three men were omitted from
the list of the members of the new
“Y” Cabinet. These men are: Bob Mc-
Callie, in charge of the weekly meet-
ings; Charlie Moore, in charge of at-
tendance, and Edward McNair, who
will have charge of the music.

Four Out of Five College Men
Visit Our Shop
Beyond the Bank

Johnson’s

Barber Shop

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

|
Davidson Men Are Invited ®
To Visit Our Shop *

Prompt Service

The New York Hospital
School of Nursing

DIRECTOR OF THE SCHOOL
1300 York Avenue _: New York City

°
