THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

Library Purchases
Varied Assortment

Large Amount of Books Were Pur-
chased With Carnegie Fund

During the past weeks the library has been
receiving a few new books. A great portion
of these are a part of the purchases for the
Carnegie Fund’s 1931-32 addition.

Below are listed several of the latest. These
are not departmental books, but
eral,

Books pertaining to religion: Religion in a
Changing World, by Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver;
The Religion of Jesus, by Toyohiko Kagawa;
John Calvin, by Georgia Harkness; The New
Leaven, by Stanwood Cobb.

rather gen- |

Included in this list are two biographies : |
Edith Wharton, by Robert Morss Lovett, and |
Jenny Lind, by Edward Wagenknecht. |

There are alSo two volumes of short pieces |
of narration. One of these is in prose form |
and one is in verse form. The former is Great- |
ness Passing By, by Hulda Niebuhr; the latter |
is The New Spoon River, by Edgar Lee Mas- |
ters, |

The fictitious novels are as follows: The |
Road Back, by Erich Maria Remarque ;

Hotel, by Vicki Baum; The Pinkertons, by |
Richard Wilmer Rowan; The Green Bay Tree, |
by Louis Bromfield. |

Other miscellaneous productions pertaining to

|

Grand |
|

such things as ancient Grece, art, health, ex-
pository matter, etc, are as follows: Hellas |
Revisited, by W. Mackneil Dixon; The Land |
of Troy and Tarsus, by J. E. Wetherell ; Read- |
ings in Art Appreciation, by A. M, Brooks ; |
What Everyone Ought to Know, by Oliver T. |
Osborne; The Gothic North, by Sacheverell
Sitwell; The Austrian Tyrol, by Ian F, D. |
Morrow; The Quick and the Dead, by Gamaliel |
Bradford; Spokesmen, by T. K. Whipple: Ef-|
fective Study Habits by Charles Bird; The |
History and Ideal of American Art, by Eugene |
Neuhaus. :

Debaters to Leave

On Scheduled Tour,

Knox, Kuykendall, Rule, McKinnon
Powell, and McKeithan to Speak

Plans are now ‘under way for the debating
team to make three important trips during the
month of March which will include debates with
the University of Florida, Birmingham-South- |
ern, University of Tennessee, William and |
Mary, and others. Debates with Southwestern
and Bucknell on March 3rd and 7th, respective- |
ly, have also been tentatively arranged. The
query, “Resolved, That Congress should enact
legislation to provide for the centralized contro!
of industry,” has been selected, with the Da-
vidson debaters taking the affirmative side in
the two contests here, and the negative in those
trips away.

According to the present arrangement, Ed
Kuykendall and Pete Knox will make a trip
south during the first part of March to debate
Emory, Birmingham-Southern, and University
of Florida. Bill Rule and Jack McKinnon have
been selected to represent the college against
the University of Tennessee and Southwestern
about the same time. And at a time later in the
month Riley Powell and Leland McKeithen
will journey northward to compete with Wil-
liam and Mary and Bucknell.

Othen arrangements are now being made for
several more home debates as well as numer-
ous trips. The definite schedule will be an-
nounced at a later date.

Davidson Glee Club
Will Give Concert

S5unnyland Serenaders and Members
of Dramatic Club Will Make Trip

The Davidson Glee Club is now making plans
for four trips it hopes to make during the
month of March, The first of these is to be to
Belmont, N. C., where a concert will be ren-|
dered on the 15th. This trip will be sponsored
by the Davidson Alumni Association. Another
trip will be taken to Newton, N. C, on the
11th, where the club will appear in the high |
school auditorium.

The third will be to Mary Baldwin College
in Staunton, Va. On the way to Staunton the
club plans to stop at Greensboro College for |
Women. As yet a date has not been set for |

this trip, but it will probably’ be made around |
the middJle of March. The club is also trying |
to make arrangements for a concert at Con- |
verse College the latter part of the month, but |
this, too, has not been definitely arranged. |

On these trips the Glee Club will be accom- |
panied by the Sunnyland Serenaders and also |
by several members of the Dramatic Club, who
will present a short comedy skit.

The club this year with, George Pardington
as manager and Bill Rule as director, is doing
excellent work both on and away from the
campus. In addition to the trips here mentioned,
the club hopes to take a few others and give
a number of other concerts before the end of
school.

; Save, they laste

LIKE TO HEAR A REALLY
GOOD RADIO PROGRAM?

@ Tonight .. . tune in on the
Chesterfield broadcast at 10:30
Eastern Standard Time and
listen to music by Nat Shilkret’s
Orchestra and Alex Gray, popu-
lar baritone. It’s on the Colum-
bia Network every night, except
Sunday. :

THEY'RE MILDER + + THEY’RE PURE * + THEY TASTE BETTER »

© 1932, Liccetr & Myzrs Tosacco Co.

@ “Imeort of

taste better to

reason ...a
better... has

the day is as mild and satisfying as the first

99.

etter

restless... always on the look-

out for something that hits the old taste
spot ... and clicks! But I’ve noticed that I
never get tired of Chesterfields. They always

me.

“That can’t be an accident. It stands to

cigarette that always tastes
got to be made better. You

know what I mean . . . purer materials . . .
more up-to-date ways of working. I’m will-
ing to bet that’s why my last Chesterfield of

1?

They Suliify

Twelve Men Are Bid
By Alpha Phi Epsilon

Bids were issued by the Alpha Phi Epsilon
honorary fraternity to twelve Davidson men
They are: Kuykendall, C. W.; Hall, R. F.;
Ryburn, H. W.; Wiley, S. S.; McKinnon, J.
H.; McKeithan, W. A. L.; Hellegers, F. R.;
Richards, J. E.; Moore, C. E.; Fulton, J. W.;
McDavid, M. F.; and Carter, W..V.

Alpha Phi Epsilon has existed at Davidson
as an honorary forensic fraternity for some

| years. Membership is based upon ability and

outstanding achievements in debating and ora-
tory, and several of the men who were honored
are members of the debating team, while others
have attained note through other forms of pub-
lic speaking. They were selected with due re-

|gard to these attainments.

These men will receive.their formal initiation
into the fraternity this week.

A private little school room, fitted out with
book-cupboard, desk and easel, has been pre-
sented to six-year-old Princess Elizabeth of
England. Her mother has employed a daily gov-
erness for her. Her mother is the Duchess of
York.

Swarthmore College grants a yearly prize to
the student who, during the college year, col-
lects the best personal library. Quality, not
size, is the determining element in awarding
the prize.

McEver Takes Part

: In Scrimmage Here

Gene McEver, varsity backfield coach, mo-
mentarily forgot himself during the scrimmage
last Saturday afternoon and temporarily thought
he was a player. He was trailing behind one of
the clevens, coaching and suggesting, and when
the play got under way, he yelled to the ball-
carrier, “There's your hole; there's your hole! |
Cut! Cut! Cut!"

The halfback followed his advice, successfully

did his side-step, and Coach McEver, running |
behind him almost at his heels, yelled, “That's |
the stuff, that’s the stuff!" Then realizing what |
he was doing, he pulled up short, and laughed |

themselves with mirth as they saw how he had
gone back to his playing days. /

That play gained cight yards.
| Primitive societies are the most happy because
they can always solve their social problems, ac-
| cording to Prof. Alfred R. Radcliffe-Brown of
\the departmeht of anthropology at the Univer-
| sity of Sydnye, Australia. Civilized manners and
|codes do not allow ready solutions for new so-
cial problems, he said.

ing,

found itself during good times.

with the large crowd who had already doubled | a naust
2xXHAUST.

College Briefs

An all-metal airplane designed to travel 1,000
miles an hour in the stratosphere has been con-
structed and undergoing tests at Lessau,
Germany. The plane is expected to make 1,000

is

miles an hour easily at an altitude of 15,000
meters, or about ten miles. It is a monoplane
with a wing spread of 40 feet and a tail 60
feet long. Its two-passenger cabin is air-tight
and designed to resist internal pressure when
the plane climbs to the thin atmosphere ten
miles above the earth's surface. It carries oxy-
gen tanks and devices to condition the air within
the cabin as well as other devices to dispose
of carbon dioxide. It will be heated by motor
If the plane proves successful it will
be able to fly from Berlin to New York in
about three and a half to four hours, and would

around the world events of only a day or so.

A photograph recently was made from an air-
plane above Washington, D. C., which showed
Washington, Alexandria, Va., Baltimore,. Md.,
the Potomac and the Chesapeake Bay. The view
was for more than 85 miles.

An expedition headed by Prof. William T.
Thom of Princeton has gathered data which
throws new light on the method by which the
Rocky Mountains were formed.

The Princeton University Press has published
}a pamphlet describing intimately the life of
| Woodrow Wilson as an undergraduate at the
[university of which he later became president.

Smith College trustees have announced they

| naturally revolutionize air travel, making trips} will seek an addition of $1,500,000 to the pres-

ent endowment of $6,000,000, the increase to. be
j applied directly to scholarships.

{

Final tests are being given at Pittsburgh to,

the largest astronomical mirror ever made in|
1 this country and the third largest ever made in, sible for everyone in the United States to listen
|

the world.

Educational authorities in Washington are

Ernest Dimnet, author of “The Art of Think- | credited with the belief that while education by
and noted French philosopher, is optimistic radio is still in the experimental stage, broad-
about the depression. He believes it will stir|casting has already proved its merits as an aid
the world out of a mental lethargy in which it|to education by helping materially to reduce il-

literacy throughout the nation.

| Negotiations are under way to make it pos-

lin on productions of the Metropolitan Opera
Company at New York through broadcasts 9
their operas from the Metropolitan stage.

Dean Inge of St. Paul’s Cathedral recently
predicted the fall of the British Empire, with
only a spiritual bond holding the English-speak-
ing race to the mother country.

