THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

TREKKING WEST

ATTEND WORLD’S LARGEST
AIR REVIEW

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE:
quest articles by Jack Willams, Jr., de-
scribing—a- visit with his father to the
National Editorial Association meeting in
California this past summer.)

This is one of a series of re-

White, sparkling San Diego, curving down
to meet the blue waters of its land-locked
bay, is often called America’s prettiest city.
We just arrived there from Agua Caliente in
time to catch the press party and after
parking the car at the railroad station, start-
ed on a tour of this historic city.

On the heights overlooking the city lies
Zalboa Park, one of the show’ places of the
city, with its 1400 acres of semi-tropical
trees and plants. The San Diego airport
is named after Col. Charles A. Lindbergh,
who took off from this ctiy on his flight
to Paris.

Next we went to Broadway Pier. for lunch
as the guests of the City of San Diego.
Many of the important admirals and other
officers of the navy and army were there
San Diego is such a progressive city that
even the mayor has a name signifying prog-
ress. Mayor Forward was present and made
a talk. The government officials looked
resplendent sitting there with their gold.
braided shoulders and polished buttons.

DISTINGUISHED VISITORS
Among those present were Brig. Gen.
Frederic L. Bradman, Adm. Frank H. Scho-

field, Rear Adm. Thomas J. Senn, Rear
Adm, Harry E. Yarnell, Capt. Wilheim
Friedell, Capt. Chester W. Nimitz, Comd.

Lyal A. Davidson, Lieut. Comdr, Ralph E.
Davison, Capt. John H. Tower, Col. H
Thorp, Col. Henry H. Arnold, Major Carl
Spatz, Major Francis T. Evans, Col. B. Yant,
Adm. Halligan, Adm. Calfers, Adm. Worth,
and the assistant secretary of the navy, Ern-
est Lee Jahncke.

Jahncke, his wife, and two daughters, Cora
and Adele, flew from San Francisco to wit-
ness the mass flight to be staged that aft-
ernoon, Rumor has it that Adele Jahnéke
is engaged to wed Allan Hoover, son of the
President. She considers the rumors pre-
posterous, for she has only met him once
and doesn’t know where these reports orig-
inated,

AMELIA EARHART

A moment later Amelia Earhart entered,
having just made a non-stop fight” fronr
New York to San Diego. She is the only
woman on earth who has flown alone across
the Atlantic. My place at the table was
right next to hers and I was, so excited I
could hardly eat. She asked to borrow my
pencil and I made the most of my oppor-
tunity and got her autograph at that time.
As $00n as she was seated, reporters sprang
up.as if by magic and started hurling ques-
tions at her. One of them leaned over and
asked in a “Mrs. Putnam, you
were late in arriving from New York this
morning, weren't you?” She replied, ‘mis-
chief dancing in her eyes, “You musn’t say
that with all these admirals around, because
you know IT came in a navy plane.”

low voice,

She was two hours late because her gas
line gave her trouble coming over the moun-
tains. She said it never could have hap-
pened if she had been in her own plane and
had lots of fun teasing the army and naval
officials at the table.

Whispering to James R. McMillan, she said
she had no idea of what to talk about and
he suggested that she tell some of the inti-
mate details of her flight across the ocean.
He thought that would appeal to the editors
present. The Prince of “Wates was also
scheduled to be in the party, but wrote at

the last minute that he would be unable
to attend.
GREAT AIR SHOW

Following luncheon we were taken by

United States Navy launches to North Island
to witness the largest air review ever held
in the United States or abroad, which was
staged by the Army and Navy in honor of
the arrival of the National Editorial Asso-
ciation in San Diego.

What a drama was unfolded before our
eyes! Four hundred and twenty-three Army,

a line 22 miles in, length. When the giant

formation passed, 800 men were in the air.
Eleven different types of flying machines
took part in this ten million dollar flight,
irom the 100 single-seaters capable of 200
miles an hour to the 27 sea planes, each
Weighing seven and one-half tons, carrying
a dozen men. In between were: scouting
planes, pursuit planes, army observation,
marine observation, coastal patrol and off-
shore patrol. :
The fuel for these ships cost ten thou-
The navy alone used
8.250 gallons of gas and 3,000 men were em-

sands of dollars.
ployed to get the planes off the ground at
the same time. Each plane flew two hours
and the flight that took place*was exactly
twice as big as the one held after the sign-
ing of the armistice in 1918. We went away
from San Diego convinced that “San Diego
knows how.”

Leaving San Diego we started for River-
drive of three and a half
On-our way we passed the Mission
of San Luis Rey and drove over the famous
bridge of the same name. The present
bridge is of cement and replaces the crude
hand book, “The
Bridge of San Luis Rey.”

side, which is a

hours.

bridge described in the
Arriving at Riverside Inn, we were dinner
Riverside Chamber of Com-
The dinner was given in the Patio
flanked by balconies from which hung the
fags of the nations with a fountain in the
center of the court. Mr. and Mrs. McGrath
of Atlanta were at our table. It was like a
reunion in California and we enjoyed being
with some people from our state. The court
is filled with eucalyptus trees as well as the
feathery pepper tree.

guests of the

Inerce,

A group of Spanish
musicians sang, danced and played through-
e@ut the meal, creating an old-world atmos-
phere.

This Inn is a famous old hotel and under-
neath it There was a
bolted door in our room and-I think it must
The
owner has. travelled all over the world col-

is a real dungeon,

have led to this musty old dungeon,

an investment representing seven

dollars. This hostelry is complete im every

4 detail and even has its 6wn chapel for the

convenience of its guests.

FONTANA INN

Next morning we werte taken by citizgns
the Fontana Rotary Club.
Stephen
address.

The author, John
McGroarty, was scheduled for an
United States Senator Samuel M.
Shortridge of California extended the offi-
cial welcome from Southern California to
the editorial party.

Thence through

San Bernardino to the

punch and a brief rest. Next came Smiley
Heights through the University of Redlands
campus. At

was served by the Southern California ‘Edi-
son Company. It was fun to sit under the
trees and eat the delicious trout that had
fried turn and bites to
watch on one side the trout swimming in
the clear cold stream. The water was full
of them! But it wasn’t much fun to

been to a between

munch a part of your sandwich when on
holding it out to them with one hand.
CALIFORNIA’S FINEST PLAYGROUND
The return trip was made by Lake Ar-
rowhead high up in the San
mountains. We spent the time here boating
The party was taken in motor
ride around the lake, Every
time a boat started I was ready to go and
finstead of taking one boat trip I took many.
It was great to ride over the lake’s crystal

and bathing.
boats for a

There were many vistas of great open
spaces in every direction. The lake seemed
to reflect the glory of the sky and the vir-
gin stretches of forest came right down to
the very edge of the water. Like a sapphire
set in the emerald green’ Of pines and firs
Lake Arrowhead sparkled. Around its shores
were hundreds of summer cottages, for this
resort is a Cali-
Later a typical western dinner was

favorite rendezvous for

fornians.

looking the lake.

TOAD DERBY
Further entertainment consisted of a
unique horned toad derby given at the village

(Continued on page 4)

Coat, Pants and Silk Dest, at véry

BELKS = a "a MISS MINNIE'S
50 TUXEDO SUITS

Also, regular $15 to $20 grey double breasted

special price of -

$10

Overcoats at

lecting art treasures. and altogether he has!
million |

to Fontana Inn for breakfast as guests of |

|
Navy and Marine Corps planes flew by in| A. M.

examinations begin at 9:00

Examination Schedule---Session 1932-1933---1st Semester

P. M. examinations begin at 2:00

|Jan. Freshman Sophomore Junior and Senior
‘i A. M. English 1 English 2 English 4, 5, 10.
ur.
12 P M. ' Physics 1 Physics 2 Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Political Science 2.
A. M. Spanish A Spanish 1 Spanish 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Econ. 5
Fri. Education 1,
13 Philosophy 1, Economics 4,
PM, Political Science 4,
‘ A.M. French A French 1 French 2, 3,'5. Sociology
Sat.
14 P. M. German A German 1 German 2, 3, 4. Polit. Se. 1
Education 3.
A. M.
Mon. ;
16 P M. Mathematics 1 Math, 2 Math. 3, 4.,Polit. Sc. 3. Bus. 1.
Psychology 2.
Tu A M. ‘ History 3, 5, 6.
es,
17 P. M. Latin A Latin? * Latin 2, 3, 4. Economics 3.
Geog. 2, Philosophy 2.
| Wed A. M. Education 4, Psychology 1.
18 P.M. History 1 History 1 History 2, 4, 7.. App. Math. 1,/2.
— —
Thur A. M. Biology 1A Biology 1 Biology 2, 3, 4. Business 2.
? P.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Bible 3, 4, 6. Astronomy. Geog. 1.
A.M. Chem. 1 Chem, 2 Chem. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Economics 2.
Fri. Education 2.
20 P. M. Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 4, 5, 6. Psychology 4.
Business 3. |
A M. Economics 1 Economics 1 Psychology 3,
Sat. Geology.
21 P. 'M. k. O. T. C1 1g, (0), aby Ce k. O. T. C. 3, 4. \
Art, Italian.
o i
Joh ’s Barber Sh NOTICE---Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the
eee oe DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
our Out of Five College Men ‘ ‘ .
Come Here” Work Done While You Wait - C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor
°. ~

"National Orange Show building for orange |

noon we arrived at the Rain- |
bow Angling Club where a trout luncheon

fish |
after watching the big trout-swim up and

3ernardino |

waters and look out over the deep blue sur- |
face and feel the clean sweep of soft winds. |

served on the terrace of the Lodge over-

Writing Paper FOR SO LITTLE MONEY

300 Note Sheets Formerly 200
450 Envelopes . Formerly100

450 Pieces . .. Formerly 300

All Printed with your
Name and Address

*yge

“Wy DON’T see how you doit!” That's the —

' gist of the flood of letters we have re-
ceived from old friends and new since_an-
nouncing our new “450” Package. :

We knew the “450” Package would amaze
everyone. Here's why. The ordinary box of
stationery contains 24 sheets and 24 envel-
opes. The "450" Package contains 300 sheets
and 150 envelopes!

Cheap paper? Not a bit of it. Finer paper
is used in the "'450" Package than in many
boxes of high priced social stationery f

And each sheet and envelope is neatly
printed with your name and address — the
smart and logical way to have your station-
ery finished. It is convenient— protects your
letters from loss in the mails—helps busi-
ness houses Bet your name accurately and
lends a neat distinction to your notes.

Two million people can’t be wrong—and
two million people have sent to Peru, Indi-
ana, for American Printed Stationery!

Try it. It’s the same style note paper we
have sold for 18 years—same printed name
and address—same correct size, 6 x 7 —
same price. But the quantity is now 50%
greater!

Send one dollar — cheek, bill or money
order ($1.10 west of Denver and outside of
U.S.). Your package will be printed and
mailed within 3 days of the receipt of your

&

THE AMERICAN STATIONERY COMPANY, 700 PARK AVE., PERU, IND.

q Originator and World's Largest Manufacturer.of Printed Note Paper
Here is $1.00 for a box of "450" Stationery to be printed as shown below.($1.10 west of Denver and outside of U. S..

a @

IT’S THE NEW
“450°’ PACKAGE

50°; BIGGER

order. Sold by mail only. No agents or dealers. Absolute
satisfaction guaranteed.

AS CHRISTMAS GIFTS

Being printed with the recipient's name and address, Amer-
ican Sener makes a distinctly personal gift —and a most
pleasing one. Simple, neat, fine quality, in good taste—and
inexpensive. Make up your Christmas list at once. All orders
printed and mailed within 3 days of receipt of instructions.

%
=

9 Name.
.< |
OVER 2,000,000 CUSTOMERS — ALL OVER THE WORLD

