neodtS..Slage._.Manager,___.

3 — es ’ Ae
= | Che Dabidsonian ==
WINS STRAW ; ‘ . ; BE GIVEN
VOTE , oO SOON
Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX

No. 7

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N..C., OCTOBER 26, 1932

INSPIRING MESSAGE GIVEN.
BY MR. F. L. JACKSON AT
~ SUNDAY VESPERS SERVICE

Speaker Urges Each Student to Take
saci seaes Life as His :
eal

SPRUNT LEADS SERVICE

Weeks and Rose Lead Prayer;
Schriver Offers Violin Solo

At the Y. M. C. A. vesper services last
Sunday evening, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer
of Davidson College, was the speaker. Wal-
ter Sprunt conducted the services, arid he
read for the scripture lesson Luke 12, 22-31.
K. D. Weeks and Ben Rose led the students
in prayer, and a violin solo was rendered
by Byron Schriver, accompanied by Bill
McInvaille. :

Mr. Jackson gave a very inspiring message
on the soul and its center. “There are three
types of souls,” began Mr. Jackson, . “the
self-centered soul, the crowd-centered soul,
and the God-centeted soul.” He continued by
giving striking examples of each type.

He told of the boy who came home from
college, bragging and boasting of what he
had gotten out of college in a selfish manner.
“A selfish. soul,” said Mr. Jackson, “seeks
a selfish game, and assumes no helpful at-
mosphere. He never aids the group, but is
always forwarding himself, ;

“"The second type has no idea of right or
wrong: He-merely fottows the group, doing

What, is customary and what. he can get by

with. This is the type that doesn’t think
clearly, and would cheat others if chance
prevailed itself;—-His basis of thinking is hot
what he should do, but what others think
of him. In this way he is usually led astray
from doing what is morally right.

“The God-centere® soul is the greatest of
these types,” continued Mr. Jackson. ' “This
is the-one I want you to concentrate upon,
and set as your ideal.: It is a stimulating
and ‘potent thing’ in a man’s life. Being
able to speak to God in prayer aids matters
in many ways. There are certain spots on
the campus which we should link with God.”
He then told the story of R. J. Pearson who
is now a very noted evangelist. Mr. Pearson,
being unable to decide what vocation he de-
sired to follow, prayed to God an entire
night and asked God to help him.

i Before
(Continued on page 6)

Dramatics Open Nov. 3;
Three Plays to Feature

Casts Have Been Selected and Re-
hearsals Have Begun

The «Red and Black Masquers announce
that-all- parts have-been cast for the three
one-act plays to be given on the night of
November 3 in Chambers Auditorium. The
first play—is “Moonshine,’—by—Arthur Hop-
kins, and requires two actors. D. P. Mo
Lain will take a character part in this play,
and the other character is,played by N. A.
Moss. McLain will be remembered for his
excellent performances last year, especially
as the detective in the “Haunted House.”
Moss will make his first appearance before
the Davidson-audience. He has had a great
deal of experience in dramatic work. He
is directing this play, with George Gullette
as stage manager. ;

“The Game of Chess,” by Goodman, will
be directed by E. A. Hancock and the cast
composed of veteran members of the
Red and Black Masquers. D. W. Hollings-
worth and E. G. Williams assume the lead-
ing parts and are supported by J. G. Marvin
and H. H. Hodgin. Hodgin and Hollings-
worth last appeared in “In the Zone,” while
Williams and Marvin did excellent work in
“The Monkey's Paw.” Fritz Byerly will act

is

The third play, “The Ghost of Jerry Bund-
ler,” by Jacobs, is being directed by Jack
Williams. Members of the Freshman class
were tested for parts and the following
were given parts: A. M. Faison, P. Y. Har-
lan, J. L. Dees, R. W. Johnston, W. M.
Taylor, R. S. Riley and R. B. Lindsay. Lyman
Clardy has been selected as stage manager.
The stage manager for each play will have
assistants from the Freshman class. All
three plays are in rehearsal, and the evening
of performance promises to be a big suc-
cess. :

|

I. R. C. Makes Extensive
Plans for Coming Year

The International Relations Club held its
initial meeting of the year Friday night and
made extensive plans for increasing the ac-
tivity of the organization on the campus
during the coming year.

Henry Nichol delivered an interesting talk
on Iraq, the newest member of the League
of Nations, and a State only recently sev-
ered from Great Britain’s dominion. This
talk preceded a “feed” in which thé whole
club participated. Election of new members
was deferred until the next meeting.

The International Relations “Club at Da-
vidson is a member of a national student
organization engaged in an extensive effort
to improve understanding and enhance co-
operative effort among the nations of the
world. The local branch studies and dis-
cusses current national problems and affairs
of national and international scope. Pros-
pective members of the club are invited to
write lengthy papers on some vital phase of
international life, and these are used as the
basis for election to the organization.

Meetings will be held every two weeks,
it was announced. It was decided to ask
various members of the faculty to address
the club at its regular meetings and also
to invite several well-known speakers to
come to Davidson and address the student
body. An effart will be made to secure
Richard Halliburton, noted traveler and au-
thor.

The club made plans for the poll on the
Presidential candidates, and decided to hold

{€ontinued—on-page—6)

Entertainment

The Selwyn Entertainers, sponsored
by the Junior class, will present a pro-
gram of magic and mystery extraordi-
nary in Chambers Auditorium on Sat-
urday night, October 29, at 7:00 p. m.

Professor Selwyn’ has performed in
many cities throughout the South and
has built up a wide reputation as a
master in the field of magic. =

Sigma Upsilon, Literary
Fraternity, Issues Bids
to Seven Davidson Men

Initiation of These New Pledges is to
Be Held Next Monday Night

At a recent meeting of Sigma Upsilon, na-
tional literary fraternity, bids were issued to
seven outstanding men. Those receiving bids
were Lyman Clardy, Ed Guerrant, Tom
Wood, Gordon Wood, Gordon “Skip” Brown,
Leland McKeithan, and Ed McNair.

Eyman Clardy is a member of the Junior
class, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity and is one of the managing ed-
itors of The Davidsonian.

Ed Guerrant is a member of the Senior
class, a member of the Phi Delta Theta so-
cial fraternity, and is this year editor of
The Davidsonian,

New Officers Elected
For Eumenean Society

"Men Holding New Positions to Serve

for pees
On the evening of October 18th, the Eu-

menean Literary Society held its election of
officers for tl first of the terms in the
fiscal year of 1932-33,

The president, who is elected from. the
Senior- members, is J. E. Richards, of Lib-
erty Hill, S. C. The vice-president, from
the Junior members, is L. W. Clardy, of
Talladega, Ala. The secretary, from the
Sophomores, is D. B. Bailey, of Rock Hill,
S. Ce J. S: Mackorell, York, S. C., was made
reviewer and critic, this office being given
to .a member of the Senior class. H. M.
Hawkins, who was elected treasurer last
year, retains this position’ throughout the
year. F
Mr. Richards is on the varsity baseball
squad, was a member of the Freshman de-
bating team, is an assistant in Philosophy,
member of the Ministerial Band, and an
officer in the R. O. T. C.

Mr. Clardy is a member of Le Cercle Fran-
€ais, TR. C., Phi Gamma Delta social fra-
ternity, and a member of the editorial staffs
of The Davidsonian and Annual.

(Continued on page 6)

Munroe is Heard by
Pre-Med Fraternity

Pi. Delta Alpha, honorary pre-medical fra-
ternity of Davidson College, had one of its
first meetings of the year last Friday night,
October 21, at the Social Center. The meet-
ing, after being formally opened, was begun
with the main topic of the evening. This
was an address by Dr. Henry Stokes Mun-
roe. Dr. Munroe is a prominent surgeon
of Charlotte and likewise an outstanding
citizen of that city. He is an alumnus of
Davidson.

The subject of Dr. Munroe’s talk was cen-
tered around “The Four Outstanding Re-
quirements for a Successful Doctor.” These
requirements were discussed and each was

talked about briefly by Dr. Munroe. At the| Lumberton, and Aberdeen.

“Tom Wood_is.a-Sophamoreé_this year and
is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity. ww

Gordon Wood is also a Sophemofé’and is
active in dramatics.

Gordon Brown is another member of the
Sophomore class, of which he is president.
He is a member of. Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity. :

Leland McKeithen is a Senior this year
and ‘is president of the Forensic Council.
He is a Phi Gamma Delta.

Ed MeNair is also & member of the Senior
class, president’of Eta Sigma Phi, and is an
assistant in English.

The purpose of Sigma Upsilon is two-
fold. It recognizes outstanding literary abil-
ity and interest in literary subjects, and it
gives constructive programs for development
of literary talent among its members. This
honorary fraternity bosts of the widest va-
riety of faculty talent of any of the other
fraternities. ;

Regular are held every two
weeks and interesting and varied programs
are given. These programs are usually of
the literary trend, but quite often verge on
the philosophical and politieal questions. The
initiation of the new pledges is to be ‘held
next Monday night. :

Davidson Glee Club
Begins Season Soon

Concert Begins in Eastern Part o
State Soon

meetings

The Davidson College Glee Glub, under the
direction of Eugene Craft, has the prospects
for a very successful season. Mr. Craft is
an able instructor and is at present director
of the Good Fellows Chorus, in Charlotte.

The officers of the club, chosen for the
coming season, are: W. W. Caligan, prési-
dent; Bill Blair, vice-president, and Leland
McKeithen, business manager. About half
lof the members are new men, these men
| being Freshmen or upperclassmen making
their*first try for the club.
| On the night’ of November 12 the first
| program will be given. This is “stunt night.”
|The first concert trip will be made on De-
| cember Ist. That trip will include programs
jat Wadesboro, Laurinburg, Red Springs,

A trip is -also

conclusion of his talk, he presented a journal! Planned toGN. C. C. W. and Queens-Chicora.

of the American Medical Association to the
fraternity library, ra

Near the end of the meeting, various sub-
jects in, regard to medicine were discussed,
and his viewpoints of them were generously
given.
sérvic€ at which four new members were
initiated. "These - were: Rawling —Pratt-
Thomas, R. C. Morrow, James- S. Wilson,
and John S. Steele. f

After the meeting an informal “feed” was

enjoyed.

Afterwards there was an initiation |

|The date for this trips iss not “definite. The
|jazz orchestra, “Reeves Pope and_ his
| Southernaires,” will accompany the Glee
| Club on its concerts.

Plans have been made for a double quartet
to broacast over station WBT at Charlotte
‘on the night of November 3rd.

The singing of the student body in chapel
has been greatly improved by the aid of the
Glee Club. The club hopes to be able to
render some special programs to the student

} (Continued on page 6)

Deputation of Six Sent
to Banner Elk Saturday

A deputation of six men went to Banner
Elk on Saturday, October 22. They con-
sisted of Paul Brown, Jake Mackorell, C. R.
Wright, ““Skip*~ Brown, - Leslie Thompson,
and David McLain. They came to Banner
Elk at the invitation of Don King, president
of the Davidson student body in 1931-32.
They spent the, week-end in the Lees-McRae
cottage.

Saturday: afternoon. Jake Mackorell, Paul
Brown ana C. R. Wright officiated at the
football game between Wees-McRae and
Boiling Springs in-which-the-tlatter won, 9-0.

The schedule of events for Sunday was]

Each member took charge of a Sunday
School class, and Leslie Thompson delivered
the morning sermon in which David Me-
Lain furnished the music. After dinner Paul
Brown’and Jake Mackorell each took charge
of an outpost church, the former preached
at Pigeon’s Roost Chureh and the latter at
Arbordale. The-other four members con-
ducted Sunday School at “the outpost
churches. Vesper service was held after sup-
per and was ably led by “Skip” Brown, who
presented an interesting talk to.the assembly.

A reception was given to tlie members
of the deputation by Dr. Edgar Tufts. “The
faculty members of Lees-McRae were>pres-
ent.

A delegation was sent to Banner Elk at
this same time last year.

A quotation from “Skip” Brown sums up
the feelings of the whole deputation -when
he said, “I had a most enjoyable time and
the experience was really worthwhile.”

Roosevelt Shown Favor
in Student Body Ballot

International Relations Club Holds
Straw Presidential Vote

Under the auspices of the International
Relations Club, a straw ballot on the com-'
ing Presidential election was held Monday
morning in chapel. The results show that
out of the 457 members of the student body
that voted, 306 voted for Roosevelt, 119 voted
for—Hoover, and -32— for Norman —Lhemasel
Of the number voting, 82 are twenty-one or
over and will be-able to vote in the coming
primary, We find that Roosevelt is leading
by more than 2 to 1 in the
body,

local student

In a similar straw vote now being con-|.

ducted by the Literary Digest, Roosevelt is
leading H&6dver by slightly over 3 to 2 in
the fifth week's tabulation. The balance of
the votes have-beenrtivitetanong the five
minor candidates with Norman Thomas re-
ceiving 4.86 per cent of the total vote cast.

Whenever an interesting international
question arises, it has usually been the ‘cus-
tom for the International Relations Club to
conduct such a straw vote as was conducted
in chapel Monday. The results have proven
to be of much interest not only to the mem-
bers of the I. R. C., but to the sttdent body
as a whole. a a

Debt Cancellation is
‘ Selected for Debate

Dr. Albert Keiser, of Lenoir-Rhyne, sec-
retary-treasurer of the North Carolina In-
tercollegiate Forensic Association, announced
the’ Pi Kappa Delta subject at the meeting
held. Saturday, October 22, in Salisbury at
the Yadkin Hotel. The wording of the quesv
tion has not yet been decided upon, but it}
will concern the “Cancellation of War Debts.” |

The second available choice was “Guaran-!
tee of Bank Deposits by Federal Govern-|
ment.” Matters discussed were tentative
schedules, prizes, debate tournaments and|
oratorical contests. The importance of ex-|
temporaneous contests and debating both |
sides of the question was pointed out. An-|
other topic under discussion was “What con- |
stitutes eligibility of contestants.”

Jack Williams, Jr., of the local council,
represented Davidson at the fall meeting of |
the State Association. «Strictly speaking, Da- |
vidson is not a member of-the: association. |
This organization debates in most cases col-|
leges in North Carolina, while Davidson |
often debates schools in other sections.

However, realizing the advantages of the
association, Davidson takes as active a part

(Continued on page 6)

|
|
|
{
1

DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET
POWERFUL CLEMSON TEAM
ON HOME FIELD SATURDAY

Both Carolinas Represented in Com-
ing Game Which Opens Football
Relations Between Schools |

NEITHER TEAM FAVORED

Captain Gardner Still Absent From
Davidson Gridiron Roll

Smarting from a7-6 defeat at the hands
of The Citadel Bulldogs; the Wildcats return
to Richardson Field Saturday to take on an-
other team from the Palmetto State, Clem-
son College. The ‘Cats are now on’ even
terms in that state, having walked over
Wofford, 40.to 6, and then Tost to The Cita-
del, 7 to 6, in the leading upset of the past
week-end. The game this. week is the play-
off, and both teams are keyed to a pitch,
and are waiting for the referee to start
things at three bells Saturday.

The “Purple Whirlwind” from down to
the south’ard comes to Dayidson with a rec-
ord of two victories against three defeats,
not particularly impressive on the face of
things, but one of those defeats was a hard
loss to the mighty Golden Tornado of Geor-
gia Tech, who last week laid low the highly-
touted Tar Heels of the University-of-North—
Cardina. N. C. State, who now ‘boasts a
decisive.17 to 6 triumph over the Florida
was but two touchdowns better
than Clemson}<and their other defeat came
in> the annual fair week classic with South
Carolina. On the other hand the Tigers
have turned in impressive wins over Presby-
terian and Erskine. Erskine, it will be re-
membered, was the scrappy little team who

‘Gators,

played a powerful Davidson eleven to a
standstill last» year»the game ending at
0 to 0.

Captain Miller, at quarterback, is a Tiger
threat that cannot be overlooked, and the
same applies to that steady pair of flankmen,
Patterson and Wertz. Right Tackle Craig
will be no easy man to push out of the play
either. On the whole Clemson. boasts a
strong forward wall, and an array of shifty,
speedy backs, that unless they are carefully

watched, will create havoc with any team.

Davidson's record To date is easily as im-
pressive, if not more so. Davidson opened
against Duke, and was tripped by a two-
touchdown margin. .Since then Duke tas
knocked off such teams as V. M. I, Mary-

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Hood is Honored at
Lees-McRae Homecoming

Boiling Springs Defeats Lees-McRae
by Score. of 6-0

>?

On Saturday, October Home-Coming
Day was observed at Lees-McRae Junior
College, Banner Elk, N. C.. Among the more
important events during the celebration was
the-eleetion— of Dr—-Ttraser— Hoe vd — head—of—
the Department_of Psychology of Davidson
College, to the office of President of the
Board ~of Lees-McRae Junior
College.

Trustees of

Outstanding features of the day’s program
were a barbecue dinner served on the col-
lege campus, and’ a football game between
Lees-McRae and Boiling Springs Junior Col-
lege, which was won by the Boiling Springs
eleven by the score of 6-0. The Lees-Mc-
Rae~teatt ts-coached—by—Don-King,—a 1932
graduate of Davidson, who was president of
the student body as well as star quarter-
back for the Wildcats. The Boiling Springs
team is coached by a former Wake Forest
star who played against, King on the grid-
iron for three years. The game was ref-
ereed by Jake Mackorell, a Davidson Senior.

Among other visitors were:
Judge Perkins, of New York, personal at-
torney for the late J. B. Duke; Dean David-
son, of the Duke Medical School; Dean Mil-
ler, of the Duke Law School, and Dr. W. S.
Rankin, of Charlotte. All of these men are
prominent members of the Duke Founda-
tion. |

Dr. and Mrs. Hood made the trip by
motor, and had as their guests three David-
son students who are former Lees-McRae
men._There were many Davidson alumni
present, both as visitors and as members
of the faculty and administration of the col-
lege.

outstanding
