BEAT THE
TERRIERS

ia

Glenda Lux Ubi Orta Li

Che Davidsonian

bertas

«ATTEND “Y”
VESPERS

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 5, 1932

No. 4

SCABBARD AND BLADE
HONORS NEW OFFICERS
AT FORMAL RECEPTION

Major and Mrs. Rhett and: Captain
and Mrs. Seifert Guests of
Military Fraternity

VARIED PROGRAM OFFERED

Senior Cadet Officers Also Guests at.
Function in Chambers

A reception held in honor of Major and
Mrs. John C. Rhett and Captain and Mrs.
Charles Seifert was given in the faculty
room of. Chambers Building on Thursday,
Septetmber 29th, at 8:00 p. m. This recep-
tion was sponsored by the Davidson Chap- |
ter of the Scabbard and Blade, honorary |
military fraternity. This club is composed |
of the following cadet officers of the David-
son R. O. T. C. unit, with their respective
offices in Scabbard and Blade: Captain C.|
R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn.; First Lieuten- |
ant Bruce Peabody, Charlotte, N. C.; Sec-|
ond Lieutenant Brooke Allen, Wilmington, |
N..C.; First Sergeant Fred Ogden, New Or-}
leans, La.;~A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla. ;|
W. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Paul F. Brown,
Atlanta, Ga.j. Rev E.”Gonoley, Avon Perk, |
Fla.; George Bailey, Hickory, N. C.; J. C.|
McConnell, Davidson, N, C.

It is the custom of Scabbard’ and Blade}
to give, such a reception to each new offi- |
cer usually replacing some other officer on!
the staff of commissioned instructors in the}
school. This year Major Rhett replaced Col.
Scott as head of the unit,sand last year Cap- |
tain Seifert replaced Captain Otto, this re
ception being the formal welcoming of these |
two officers to Davidson, _ These replace-|

lager, or Reeves Pope, editor-in-chief, right
|away, before the work has progressed too]

Work on Yowl and
Annual is Started

The meeting of the entire “Yow!” staff \
for the year 1932-33 was held last Wednes-!
day night, Septémber 28th, at which time
approximately fifteen new men, including |
five Sophomores and about ten Freshmen, |
reported for work. | i
_The new men were: For the literary staff,] mA Kappa Alpha
C_E, Norvell, Hugh Yelverton, A. W. Em-|{— Pi Kappa’ Phi

; j . a4 Bota: neta Pics. fool 255s
ory, J. K. Harrington, C. L. Sutlive, D. P.} Kappa Alpka
McLean and G. L. Gullette; for the business | The U at O
staff, T. E. Neal, R, E. Herman, A. W. Em-| Ad a
ory, E, S! Hodge, D. E. Human, R. P. Kor- | (Tie between Kappa Sigma and Phi
negay and B, W. Wyche; for the art staff, | Delta Theta.)
Addison Brenizer and G. B. Murray. Any Each year the Harper Trophy is
others wishing to go out for any of the awarded to the fraternity having the
staffs should see Arthur Ross, business man- highest scholastic average for the col-
lege term. The Kappa Alpha fraternity
has won the trophy for the past two

Fraternity Averages
The following is the list of the schol-
astic averages for the year 1931-32:
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Gamma Delta_-__-

\a

far. years. The fraternity that wins the
There will be four issues of the “Yow!"|| award for three years may possess the
this year instead of three as iy previous|

trophy permanently.

. . . 7 A ‘ ,
years.” The first issue-will appear Novem-

ber Ist and will, contain about thirty pages, |

slightly larger than those of last year. the House Party Sponsored

staff is also working on a new circulation | B P H ll e C il
project in the hopes that everyone may ob-| y an-rietienic ounci

tain a copy of every issue of the magazine.
Work on the 1932-33 “Quips and Cranks”! Football Game and Dance in Charlotte

Lhas also been progressing very rapidly. The | Are Chief Features of the

photographer has been here for the past two | Week-end

days and also today taking individual pic-| ee

tures. All work on the individual pictures | MUSIC BY TROUBADORS

will be completed this fall and there will be | Se

no Chance of any changes later in the year., Large Nmber of Guests Attend Sea-

No work will be started on the | son’s First Social Event

tion of the until after all individual | re

pictures have beer made, so itis very trgent

construc. |
book
OirSaturday and Sunday, October Ist and
that those who intend to have their pic-|2nd, the Pan-Hellenie Council sponsored the

first of a series of house parties scbeduled
the fall The two. outstand-
ing features of the Wweek-tnhd were the Da-
vidson-Washington

Contractsshave al-
to the different student
organizations for space in the Annual, and
it the

tures taken do so today.

ready been sent for semester,

is book

ments are due to frequent transfers made by | hoped may appear sooner and Lee football game
the LU. S. War Department e | this. year than last. ) | Saturday fiternooy and « dance at the Hotel
Hola, : , : ; eyes 5 ; : ; oy
Invitations were extended to -all-Senjor4 SSR | Charlotte Saturday myit, from nine tili

E ; : all Se

cadet officers in the department and also to)
‘ |

all faculty members of the fraternity. |
a . + . es . - |
rhe entire affair was strictly formal, all |

present attending in full dress uniform. Re-|

ireshments were served by the following |
young ladies of the town of Davidson:
Misses Helen DaVane, Mary Thompson,

Adele Arbuckle, and Mary Gaffney.
Entertainment of a somewhat. different
type was furnished-by; the “Pills” Brothers,
a trio consisting of three vocals and a banjo,
which is managed by one of the. vocals,
These are the college’s formal threat to the
famous Mills Brothers. The — three young
gentlemen, all Sophomores,- are Dave Me-
Lain, Geddie: Monroe, and Bill Northen.
The presence of the ladies, the brilliancy
of the uniforms, together with the, other
forms of entertainment combined to give a
réally striking and impressive occasion,

Pre-Medical Fraternity
Hears President Little

Dr. MacConnell Unable to Speak cal
Account of Illness

The Pi Delta Alpha, honorary pre-medical
fraternity, held a meeting last Friday in the
social center of the “Y.” About thirty-five
students were present. The original inten-
tion was to have Dr. MacConnell give a
talk, but on account of illness he was un-
able to attend the meeting. The purpose of
the meeting was to assist the Freshmen and
Sophomores in planning their course through
college and ‘give them the requirements for
entrance to schools of medicine. President
Alex Little gave an interesting talk on gen-
eral requirements, while Avery Patton
talked on specific requirements of the best
medical schools of the country. The fra-
ternity has the latest catalogues from prac-
tically all medical schools of importance.
Davidson has higher pre-medical students
than almost any other institution in the
United States. The fraternity has planned
to have at least two meetings a month with

“prominent doctors’ as speakers.

Those who read and enjoyed “The Seats
of the Mighty” and “The Lane that HadNo
Turning” will feel more than a passing in-
terest in the news of the death of the author,
Sir Gilbert Parker, September 6, at the age
of 70. He was born in Canada and mar-
ried Amy Van Tine, of New York, who died
in 1925, after 30 years of. married life.

twelve. for the:dance was fur

Le Cercle Francais | nisheck Any the <Prowbadors, a Charlotte or-
Holds First Meeting

National French Fraternity Extends
Bids to Ten New Men

The: music

chestra, which proved very popular with
those attending the dance.

The house party was also featured by an
unusually large of includ-
ing many—alumuni_and-fricnds of Davidson.
Fach of the ten social fraternities partici

number guests,

New men were discussed and voted on at!
the called meeting of Le Cercle Francais held
Tuesday night, September 27th, at the so-|
cial center. President W. A. Flinn presided:
The other officers are L.-T,
president, and J. P. Thompson,-secretary-
treasurer. \ | Dicks, Rockingham, N..C.; Margaret O’Han-

Bids are issued by the club in the fall ton, Winston-Salem, N. C©., and
and spring. Those students who have taken | White, Concord, N. C,
interest in the study of French and main-!

pated in the activities in co-operation with
the Pan-Hellenic Following
list of girls who were guests of the various
fraternities during the week-end:

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Evelyn Ritchie
and Virginia Knee, of Charlotte, N.-C.; Jane

Council. is a

Newland, vice- |

Isabelle

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Aylene John-
tained a creditable scholastic standing are| son, Morristown, Tenn.;° Elizabeth Wilson,
considered for membership, Meetings are) Greenville, Tenn.; Augusta McGregor, Spar-
held each month and Dr. G. B, Watts and!|tanburg, S. C., and Frances Scruggs, Frances
Prof. A. V. Goldiere serve as advisers to, Carey, Harriet. Moore, Katherine Moore,
the group. !
The names men
ted for Those extended bic
are: H. B. Johnson, Wilson; Madison Arm-| Phi Delta Theta: Misses Mary Mauldin,
istead, Weldon; W. M. Hart, Charlotte; J.) Rock Hill, S. C.; Sarah Stevens, Winston-
M. Harris, Rome, Ga.; T. H. McCallie, Chat-| Salem, N. C.; Jane Bratton, York, S. C.;
tanooga, Tenn.; L. W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.;) Dosty Blackman, Rock Hill, S. C., and Eliza-
D. K. Spencer, Grassy Creek; R: T. Coit,} beth Wills, Greensboro, N. C.
Richmond, Va., and G, L. Gullette, Florence,| Kappa Sigma: Misses Estelle Hall, Bel-
Alabama. |mont, N. C.; Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro,
The initiates will write a paper dealing N..C.; Lil Gray, Winston-Salem, N. C.; and
with some question concerning French lit-| Margaret Hackney, Martha Johnston, Elean-
erature and they will also be required to! or Bell, Kathryn Reid and
give an extemporaneous speech before the | Charlotte, N. C.
society in French on the night of their ini- | Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary McKay
and Elizabeth O'Dell, Concord, N. C.; Mari-

tiation at the next regular meeting.
The club decided. to have the.meetings in| lib Cunningham, Atlanta, Ga.; Douggie Long
jand Tut Gorrel, of Greensboro, and Mar-

| Jean Delaney, Mary Payne, Margaret Gil-
liam, and Elizabeth all
Charlotte, N. C.

of several submit-

discussion,

were Tompkins, from

keeping with.thé holidays and French fes-|
tivals for the months and a committee was| garet Gorrel and Sarah Lib Price of Win-
appointed, The program committee appoint-| ston-Salem, N. C.

ed is composed of the vice-president, Prof. | Kappa Alpha: Misses Virginia Pegram,
Goldiere, and Jack Williams, Jr. | (Continued on page 6)

Lyman Clardy, II, is the publicity agent |
for the coming year and will report on all!
meetings to be published. Other questions
were brought up for discussion and after |
they had been considered the meeting was.
adjourned. an |

The present members of this honorary |
society are: Seniors, C. F. Myers, L. T, New-
land, W. A. Flinn, W. H. Coble, D. F. Blue,
and J. P. Thompson.

The members of the society who are
Juniors are: Lyman Clardy, II, and Jack
Williams, Jr. This club recognizing profici-
ency in this language has taken an active
Hamilton do some worthy acting to make a
part among the honorary societies at Da-
vidson. A great deal of interest has been

(Continued on page 3)

Vesper Advance

Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor of the
Second Presbyterian Church of Char-
lotte, will speak at the Y. M. C. A.
vesper service next Sunday evening,
October 9. Dr, Hardie is a native of
Texas but has been pastor of his pres-
ent church for the past séveral_years.
He has spol at David in the past
and is an enthusiastic supporter of the
college. Because of his deep interest
in young people he is well qualified to
bring a worthwhile and interesting
message to the students.

Dot Jones, all of

Sophomores Prepare —
For Fall Festivities

Last Monday. morning President Skip
Brown called a meeting-of the Sophomore
class. At this meeting the president made
brief talky stressing ‘the importance of
class spirit and organization. He also made
mention of the bright future which lies ahead
of the class and the good start which it had
already gained. In his talk the president. of

a

the class also cited the important roles which
its members were playing on the Davidson
campus,

The main purpose of the meeting, how-
ever, Was to make preparations for the an-
nual Sophomore house party. Each year
this event proves to be one of the most im-
portant the calendar, <A
suggestion was put before the class to have
a smoker.about the latter part of the month
at which final plans and date would be set.
It is customary for the house party. to in-
clude a banquet, a free picture show, and
a dance. As yet no final plans have«been
made, but it is thought that this same line
of program with two added fea-
tures will be followed again this year. The
class heartily agreed to these suggestions.

A committee made up of the following
members of the Sophomore class will take
of the and draw up|
plans for the house party which they will!
present at the time the smoker: Joe |
Wadsworth, chairman; Mims Rogers, Caskic |
Norvell, Charlie A.|

social events on

one or

charge smoker also

ot

Harris, Pierson Brown,

©. Rogers, Jim Hurst, Hugh Yelverton, Rig- |
don Dees, ‘Tommy Phifer, Louis Prosser,
Ben Barnes, and Billy Atwater.

The week-end of December 10th is the
tentative “date for the house party, and as}
has been customary ten members of the!

Freshman class will be asked to help at the
Danquet and with other details, Final plans |
will be announced as soon as possible and
the student body is asked to do all they can}
in the of

way co-operation, : |

; |
President, |
. . . . . 1
Skip Brown; vice-president, Joe Wadsworth ; |

and D. Weeks.

Major Rhett Speaks
ne ~ Before Phi Society

Dr. Brown Also Heard; Discusses Fac-
tors of Presidential Elections

Officers for the class of 385 are:

sceretary treasurer, Ix.

Major John T. Rhett, new head of the |
R, O, T. C. ats Davidson, and Dr. C. Key
Brown were the featured faculty speakers |
last week at the Phi Society, in one of its}

most interesting and instructive programs of
the current

D. D. MeBrv¥de, president of the society, |
introduced the first speaker, Major Rhett, |
who talked on “The Military Policy of the |
United States.” .The

SeSssIol,

speaker began by call- |
ing attention to the fact that the National!
Defense Act of 1916, proposed by President |
Wilson, represents the first declaration-of af
definite military policy that is now on our!

on “10 . i}
statute books. The anilitary policy, or rather |
the lack of policy, in the history of our}
country, was traced, with specific illustra- |

; : i |
tions from the several wars in which the}

United States has participated. Major Rhett |
concluded with an analysis of the present |
National Defense Act, and with the observya- |
tion that the principles embodied in it are |
t eT

Pessentiattythe-same—as_those with Georg |
Washington pronounced a century and a

half ago.
The second speaker was introduced by the }
critic, Stuart Noblin. Upon being intro-
Dr. Brown remarked that he
necessarily: to be restricted during his talk, |
as it had been erroneously written up in a}
previous issue of The Davidsonian. His sub-!
ject was “The Determining Factors in
Presidential Election.” In the opinion of the
speaker, three: (1) hereditary
prejudices of the voter, whichdetermine the
majority of voting decisions; (2) objective
analysis of platforms, which may be mis-
leading because platforms are vote-getting
agencies rather than true statements of
principles, and (3)-the campaign itself, which
determines the personal reaction of the voter |
to the respective candidates. After analyz-
ing President Hoover and Governor Roose-
velt, Dr. Brown concluded: by saying that
he did not care to assume the role of a
prophet but was content to await the actual
outcome of the election. -
The meeting was concluded with the
(Continued on page 6)

duced, Was}

a

these are

| threat

| with

DAVIDSON WINS FROM
WASHINGTON AND LEE
IN HARD-FOUGHT GAME

Mackorell’s Run Leads to Single Wild: .

cat Touchdown Over Heavier
Team From Virginia

SOPHOMORE BACKS STAR

Generals Suffer Severe Injuries in
Game Last Saturday:

Scrapping with a spirit that has always
‘characterized the play of Davidson's” foot-
ball teams, the Wildcat eleven repeated their
last year's 7 to 0 victory over the Washing-
ton and Lee Generals last Saturday after-
noon Richardson Field. The Generals
were outplayed at every turn in the first
half but rallied a bit and held the ‘Cats on
slightly better than even tefms the final half,
putting down several touchdown
bids. The only touchdown of the game was
scored by the Wildcats in the second quar-
ter after Johnny Mackorell made a pretty
run of 23 vards carrying tle pigskin to the
Generals’ four-yard line. Charlie Pearce car-
ried the ball the remaining distance over left
tackle and Mackorell booted the extra point
from place kick.

The

on

Davidson

but serious

recovered

Generals | offered one
Manley

‘Cats’ twelve-yard line in the

when Pearce’s
fumble on the
second quarter, but the Red and Black line
held the ball In the last

period Generals their

and went

the

ower.

rallied) for only

jststained drive, with Collins, substitute half-

back, leading the drive. But Morris, Sopho-

end, intercepted a Washington and
Lee pass to halt the threat on the Wildcats’
2t-vard line. Vhe Witdeats-made nine first
to the The
were unable to get a first down in the first
half, team registered
the half Dimimy » DeTarts
five to the Wildcats’ three.

More

downs visitors’ five. Generals

while the Davidson

but in last

eleven made

One of the most spectacular plays of the

}contest occurred in the third period when

Johnny  Mackorell, halfback,
flipped to. Morrris in the flat, who made a

Sophomore

short lateral pass to Charlie Pearce and the .

latter slithered through for a gain of 26
yards that put the pigskin on the Generals’
20-yard line, The ‘Cats drew a 15-yard pen-
alty and Morris, Washington and Lee tackle,
broke through and blocked Mackorell’s pass,
Podd recovering. This was just one of the
many times that the team lost
chances tor-score by penalties or by fumbles.

The first Wildeat threat was nailetl by a

courageous buneh of Generals in the open-

Davidson

ing quarter when Mackorell passed to Pearce
for a gain of about 20 yards and was run
out Washington
and Lee's four-yard marker and the Cadets
pushed the ‘Cats back to the 11-yard line to
An exchange of punts followed-and
with
George Wingfield, another Sophomore, who

of bounds..by Sawyer on

recover.
Davidson launched a steady drive
had replaced) Peabody, a veteran of many
games, that had been bearing the brunt of
the attack, The
the ball in
the first quarter ended.

As the second quarter opened, the ’Cats

a penalty of 25 yards for illegal

drive netted four yards

Davidson's possession~ as

received

(Continued on page 6)

Honorary Fraternities
Elect Head at Meeting

Twelve Representatives Vote Alex
Little President of Council

The Honorary Fraternity Council, com-
rosed of the presidents of Davidson's hon-
wary fraternities, met last Friday night. for
he. first time this year. A. G. Little, rep-
resentative of Pi Delta Alpha, was elected
president of the council, and a schedule for
the mectings of the various organizations
was set.

!
‘
t

Societies. represented at the meeting and
their representatives were: Omicron Delta
Kappa, Bruce Peabody; Sigma Upsilon, Bob
McCallie; International Relations Club, D.
D. McBryde; Sigma Pi Sigma, J. B. Rice;
Alpha Phi Epsilon,'J. Wayte Fulton; Scab-
bard and Blade, C..R. Wright; Eta Sigma
Phi, W. E: McNair;-Gamma Sigma-Epsiton,
Avery Patton; Delta Phi Alpha, ‘Paul
Brown; Le Cercle Francais, William Flinn;
Sigma Delta Psi, J. S. Creech; Mu Beta Psi,
E, G, Williams; Pi Delta Alpha, A. G. Little.
