6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

Should the eg en is
Compulsory Drill
Stopped by Congress?

Thi iestion Is Being Raised by the
Ccttniie’ on Militarism Located
in New York

VIEWS ON SUBJECT VARY

“Lure of the Uniform” Should Not Be
Over-Emphasized

Will the advocates of military training suc-
ceed through a flood of propaganda in pre-
venting Congressional leaders from reducing
such War Department expenditures and in abol-
ishing the compulsory feature of drill? Students
opposed to compulsory military training—and
the results of several recent student polls show
a majority against compulsory drill—now have
an opportunity to promote their side of the case.
Certain facts should be kept in mind:

1, Many military and “patriotic” opponents
of the proposed reductions actually favor com-
pulsory military. training for all young men.

2. The present R. O. T. C. and C. M. T. C.
are admittedly ineffective as military training
but are urged as “training in citizenship.”

3. This training in “citizenship” is largely
training to believe in the necessity and efficacy
of military preparedness and has little to do!

with social and political issues. other than to |,

urge a generally reactionary attitude.

4. Modern educators are almost unanimously
opposed to military training as a substitute for
modern physical education of for courses in the
problems of citizenship.

5. Our unprecedented Federal deficit makes
necessary rigid curtailment of every possible
expenditure.

6. Congressional leaders are said to favor
cuts in the military budget, but military advo-
cates are using the Far Eastern crisis as an
argument for a large army, overlooking two
facts: (a) The military patriotism of the Jap-
anese is largely responsible for this stupid and
suicidal destruction of the bases of peace and
prosperity in the Orient; (b) If America actu-
ally went to war with Japan, it is’ quite psob-
able that the importance of devoting public en-
ergies to the prosecution of the war would lead
us to abandon such activities as the C. M. T. C.
and the R. O. T. C. or to Convert them into
effective military preparedness.

The R. O. T. C. and the C. M. T. C. prepare
most of their members poorly for the use of
either pacifist or militarist techniques. Military-
minded, but not military “effectives,” the cadets
are opposed by those who believe in peaceful
methods and are accepted by the militarists sole-
ly because they consider them better than noth-
ing and they may build sentiment for a larger
fighting force.

Many editors and other citizens who believe
in ‘reasonable defense,” but who are not ac-
quainted with the above facts, are opposing the
Proposed reductions. Students who have had
an opportunity to observe the weaknesses of the
training should counteract the propaganda of
the militarists by informing and arousing. the
public now.

Oklahoma A. & M. College which was the
scene of a lively fight over compulsory drill last
fall, now has the honor of presenting the first
R. O. T. C. girl colonel to turn in her uni-
form. Miss Jeanette Thompson says she accept-
ed the position as an honor with no other par-
ticular significance. Then a Y. W. C. A. con-
ference upon disarmament brought her to see
that she was being used to glorify war. “It was
a different trend of thought to what I had
known. From this discussion I started reading
and getting people’s points of view from both
sides. After thinking it through, I resigned as
colonel because I couldn't possibly do anything
else.”

The “Red Chasers” may see here a new rea-
son for abolishing the Y. W. C. A. and other
groups that try to get students to think for
themselves. We must never allow youth to get
the notion that military training, preparedness,
or the uniform have anything to do with war,
for bloodstained puttees do not shite. Congratu-
lations to Miss Thompson! May her kind in-
crease until every woman can look straight
through the lure of military parades and see
war’s destruction and folly.

NEW PHI PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)
grams should include both of these fundamental
elements for the promotion of which the so-
ciety was founded. Duncan McBryde was elected
respondent, or representative of the
the college commencement.

The hope was expressed that the Phi So-
ciety might be so fortunate as to continue its
activity uninterrupted on until 1936, which will
mark the hundrédth anniversary of the) organ-
ization, and at which time appropriate celebra-
tion will be made of a century’s activity of
one of the oldest organizations of any kind on
the Davidson campus. A committee was ap-
pointed, and active plans have gotten under
way for. the selection of some prominent alumni

“speaker, —but

Society at

Insanity Goes With
Genius Says Writer

Of all the geniuses of history, few have been
mentally healthy, according to W. Lambe-
Eichbaum, German author, who has written
“The Problem of Genius,” recently published by
Macmillan.

In almost every instance, he says, recognized
genius has been coupled with insanity. Assert-
ing that among modern peoples a reverence for
genius has often become a substitute for dog-
matic religions of the past, the author went on
to point out that genius has become a goal
toward which everyone is supposed to be work-
ing. F
“Yet,” he said, “genius cannot be considered
the foreshadowing of the higher evolution of
our race, but rather as something which: may

foreshadow the ultimate extinction of our race.” |
. . |
Among the few geniuses whom he believes to |

have been mentally healthy, Lange-Eichbaum
names Titian, Raphael, Andrea del Saryo, Ru-
bens, Verdi, Durer and Leignitz.

Those whom he says have created their prin-
cipal works before they were seriously affected
by psychosis include Kant, Copernicus, Stend-
hal, Faraday, Linnaeus and Huygens.

“The following,” he says, “died of general
paralysis of the insane: Beaudelaire, Donizetti,
Lenau, Leuthold, Jules Goncourt, Makart, Hugo,
Wolff and Lautensack. The following were af-
fected with schizophrenia when they died:
Tasso, Newton, Lenz, Holderlin and Panizza.

“Almost everywhere, and especially in the sub-
jective fields of imaginative writing, religion
and music, gifted ‘instanity’ gains the victory
over simple, healthy talent.”

Phi Delta Thetas Move
Into Temporary House

Decay of Substructure Necessitates
Temporary Move Into Old
Alpha Omega House

The Phi Delta Theta social fraternity moved
into a new temporary home this past week.
The new arrangement was made necessary be-
cause the floor of the old house had begun to
give away. Due to the lack of ventilation and

Vesper Speaker

On Sunday, March 6, Prof. Archi-
bald Curry will speak at “Y” vespers.
Carl Pritchett, secretary of the David-
son Y. M. C. A., has been very fortu-
nate in securing him for this occasion.
Professor Curry, who is a member of
the Social Science Department, is a
professor of political science and eco-
nomics; he is also an alumnus of Da-
vidson. Those who. have heard him be-
fore can verify the statement that he
is a most charming and entertaining ©
speaker. It is with great pleasure that
the student body looks forward to
hearing Professor Curry.

University to Seek
Precocious Youths

Northwestern President Hopes to Ad-
mit Six Boys This Fall

Northwestern University is on the lookout
for precocious students. President Walter Dill
Scott announced last week that he hoped to
admit into the university next September as
many as six precocious youths who meet all
the entrance requirements, but who are only 13
to 15 years old.

Special provisions will be made to meet the
needs of these superior students.

“Our experience with precocious students has
been satisfactory;” said President Scott. “There
have been so few of them, however, that they
have lacked the stimulus that comes from co-
operation and competition with equals. It is
planned to have these six freshmen live together
and enjoy an environment favorable to them.”

A letter has been addressed by President
Scott to a selected list of high school principals
appraising them of Northwestern’s desire to aid
the precocious student.

By precocious, Presideat Scott pointed out,
is implied an I. Q. of more than 130, or such
youthful attainments as were characteristic of
Jeremy Bentham, who wrote Greek and Latin
at the age of 5 and prepared to enter Oxford at
the age of 10; Lord Byron, who began to write

perhaps the presence of a few termites, the sub-|at 10 and. was distinguished at 15; Benjamin
structure of the floor has rotted away ‘and; Franklin, publisher of a newspaper at 17; Alex-
caused the floor of one room to bulge upward ander Hamilton, a successful business execu-
and of another to sink in. The new’ home into tive at 15; Albrecht con Haller, German anat-

which they have moved is the old Alpha Omega

omist, who prepared a Chaldean grammar and

home in the left-hand corner of fraternity circle 2,000 biographies of famous persons at 9; John

as one enters.

The members of the fraternity are very well
satisfied with the new home as a temporary ar-
rangement, but will be glad when they can move
back into their original building. This future
moving is expected to take place in about a
month, by which time the college is expected
to have completed the building in of a new sub-
structure for the floors and remedied the cause
of the decay. This is the first serious misfor-
tune that has occurred to the fraternity struc-
tures which the college completed at an average
cost of five thousand dollars each in 1928, The
Davidson College plan of fraternity housing
has gained nation-wide eminence in its tnique-
ness and its immediate success on the campus.

Norman Raies, S. P. E.,. Senior of the class
of 1931, wrote a splendid and well illustrated
article in the latest issue of ‘“Banta’s Greek
Exchange,” giving high praise and prominence
to Davidson’s unique plan of fraternity hous-
ing.

MASQUERS WILL PRESENT
' GROUP OF PLAYS

(Continued from page 1)
Little Theatre prodtction, the entire cast is
comprised of its members. George Farrington,
of the Charlotte High School faculty, directs
the play and takes the lead. The play has been
given many times by this group. The cast is as
follows:
Warden Holt-_----____ John McNeely
Father Daly —---__-- Wallis Moulding
Dan Paul Worley
James Dyke ------ George Farrington
Josephine Paris -..___ Sarah E. Motte
Paul Brown is stage manager for this play.

Stuart Mill, who was proficient in higher math-
ematics at 8; W. A. Mozart, who: performed
and composed constantly fror the age of 5;
Napoleon Bonaparte, known_as the “little math-
ematician” at the age of 8, and organizer and
leader at the age of 14; James Watt, interested
in higher mathematics at 6, and who began ex-
perimentipg with steam at 15; and George
Washington, a professional surveyor at 15.

SPANISH FRATERNITY

. (Continued from page 1)

rence, Ed Gorham, and Pete Knox. A feed was
given, and each neophyte was asked to tell a
“chistecito” or joke. The meeting was held in
the T, U. O. fraternity house, and the faculty
members present were Profs. Fleagle, Blythe
and Goldiere. The present officers of the or-
ganization are: Bill McKnight, president;
Francis Bixler, vice-president; Joe Houston,
secretario; John Allen, treasurer.

SURVEY WELFARE CONDITIONS

(Continued from page 5)
Brasher, Mebane; Lewis Gregg, Ranger, Tex
as; W. G, Stanley, Lumberton; James P. Wood,
Jr., Roanoke, Va.; J. M. Fidler, Davidson; G.
W. Easton, Middlesborough, Ky.; Roy McDon-
ald, Sanford; Harvey Morrison, Davidson; F.
L. Cherry, Tampa, Fla.

DR. McCONNELL SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)
the solidity and beauty of the Washington monu-
ment, which was noted for its simplicity, rug-
gedness and strength.

Stetson “D” Store

Come In and Look the New Spring
Patterns Over

|
|

no final selection has yet been announced.

iP Clothes For the College Man

New Book Published On >
Life of Pres. Cleveland

Interesting Medical Facts Revealed in
the Account of the Curing of
President Cleveland’s Cancer

NEW BOOK TELLS OF CANCER

Cleveland Operated On by Dr. Bryant

on Commodore Benedict’s Yacht

How two carefully concealed operations were
performed on Grover Cleveland shortly after his
second inauguration as President of the United
States is revealed in a new book by Dr. James
H. Tobey: “Cancer: What Everyone Should
Know About It.”

“About three months after his second inau-
guration,’ Dr. Tobey reports, “Grover Cleve-
land sent for an army surgeon, Dr. R. M.
O'Reilly, to look at an ulcerated patch on his
mouth. Dr. O’Reilly immediately suspected a
malignant condition.”

An immediate removal was advised when the
suspicions were verified, and on June 30, 1893,
the President and a party of medical men and
personal secretaries boarded the yacht Oneida
of Commoder E. C. Benedict in New York
Harbor, and the next day the yacht steamed up
the East River and into Long Island Sound.

Dr. Tobey continues: “In the main cabin a
dramatic event was taking place. A great Presi-
dent of the United States, whose life was
precious to his country, was being operated upon
for cancer. Dr. Keen, an eminent surgeon from
Philadelphia, had examined Mr. Cleveland. and
confirmed the diagnosis of cancer. After Dr.
Hasbrouck had extracted two of the upper teeth,
Dr. O'Reilly administered the anesthetic, and
Dr. Bryant, assisted by Dr. Keen and Dr.
Erdmann, operated upon the jaw, removing the
entire upper section of it. The operation was
done Wholly within the mouth, with the help
of a cheek retractor which Dr. Keen had
brought back from Paris in 1866. By this means
all external scars were avoided.

“The yacht arrived at Buzzard’s Bay on July
5, and Mr. Cleveland walked ashore unassisted.
At this time he was 56 years of age and rather
corpulent. On July 17 Dr. Bryant performed a
second operation to remove some of the tissue
that had eluded him in the first operation.
Shortly thereafter Dr. K. C, Gibson, a New
York dentist, fitted the President with an arti-
ficial jaw made of vulcanized rubber. There
was no impairment of the President's power of
speech.”

Kiwanis Club Hears
Davidson’s Coaches

When the Charlotte Kiwanis Club last held
its weekly luncheon, it had as its guests Cap-
tain Norton G. Pritehett, director of physical
education at Davidson College, and Davidson’s
two new football coaches, William (Doc) New-
ton and Eugene McEver. The Davidson men-
tors had as their subject, “Football,” about
which they made brief talks.

Captain ‘Pritchett discussed the new football
rules briefly. He said that he was convinced
that the new rules will help the game, in that
they will protect the players and will place
more emphasis on cleverness rather than
strength. But he said he did not know how the
rule, making a man “down” when any part of
his body other than his hands and feet are
touching the ground, would be interpreted.

Coach Newton, in his brief talk, said that
he was moulding his system to fit the material
he had here at Davidson. He explained parts
of the Rockne ‘and Warner systems and pointed
out that without material, systems are nothing.

McEver said only a few words, acknowledg-
ing his introduction and expressing his pleasure
at being at the luncheon.

Local Civic Leader,
E. W. Kimbrell, Dies

Prominent Davidson Merchant Suc-
cumbs Unexpectedly to a Pro-
longed IlIness

Edward W. Kimbrell, 64, prominent merchant
and civic leader of Davidson, died at his home
here on February 23 after a lingering illness
of arthritis. Although he had been suffering
considerably since last June, death was unex-
pected.

The body was taken to Fort. Mill, S. C.,
where funeral services were held at Unity
Presbyetrian Church. The Rev. A. W. Shaw,
pastor of the church, assisted by Dr. C. M.
Richards, Dr. H. M. Moffett, and Dr. R. S.
Burwell, Davidson ministers, conducted the
rites.

Active pallbearers were Frank and Marion
Kimbrell, of Charlotte; Rupert Kimbrell, of
Fort Mill; Curtiss Kimbrell, of Gastonia, and
Brice and Oscar Culp, of Gastonia. Honorary
pallbearers were officers of Unity Presbyterian
Church, in which Mr. Kimbrell was an elder
at the time of his death.

Mr. Kimbrell was born in Fort Mill and had
spent his entire life there until he came to Da-
vidson three years ago and established a mer-
cantile business. He was one of Fort Mill's
leading merchants for over 40 years before com-
ing here.

He is survived by his widow, four sons, F. O.,
Edward and Henry Kimbrell, all of Syracuse,
N. Y., and Jasper Kimbrell of Davidson, and
a daughter, Miss Myra Kimbrell, of Davidson.
One brother, W. M. Kimbrell, of Columbia, S.
C., also survives.

REGISTRAR REPORTS LIST
OF HONOR MEN

(Continued from page 1)

Men whose grades for their first three and
a half years have been this high are: T. W.
McLean, Charlotte; S. S. Wiley, Salisbury;
C. H. Harrison, Davidson; Roger Enloe, Buch-
anan, Ga.; L. N. Hand, Jr., East Spencer; E. S.
Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; D. M. McQueen,
Little Rock, S. C.; H. L. Carr, Burgaw; E. C.
Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte; J. T. Welch, Jr., Nit.
Holly; J. D. McConnell, neon Wot.
Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Rostoe Prince,
Raleigh; E. Z. DuBose, Camden, S. C.; J. G.
Dunklin, Laurens, S. C.*P. T. Shanks, Selma,
Alabama.

J. C. Houston, Leeds, Ala.; W. H. Matthews,
Jr., Martin, Texas; T. L. Patrick, Lexington;
W. W. Franklin, Bluefield, W. Va.; A. J. Gra-
ham, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; D. G. Stephenson,
Covington, Ga.; H. H. Harris, Jr.. Greenville,
S. C.; T. M. Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C.; H. C.
McFadyen, Donelson, Tenn.; W. B. Hawkins,
Jr., Chester, S. C.; P. M. Conway, Henderson,
Ky.; C. S. Spencer, Statesboro, Ga.; D. G.
Martin, Covington, Ga.; A. S. Morrow, High
Point; C. W. F. Spencer, Jr., Rock Hill, S. C.;
H. W. Ryburn, Erwin, Tenn.; A. M. Earle,
Jr., Stovall; D. R. Williams, Jr., Lancaster,
S. C.; E. D. Bolich;"Denver, N. C.; P. S. Knox,
Jr., Thomson, Ga.; R. E. C. Roane, Winston-
Salem; J. O. Mann, Jr.; Chester, S. C.

Laws regulating parking in this country are
based on a decision handed down in 1812 in
England by the distinguished jurist, Lord Ellen-
borough. The jurist ruled it was an indictable
offense for stage coaches to stand at long inter-
vals waiting for passengers in public streets.

“No one,” he said, “can make a stableyard of
the King’s highway’—probably the first ruling
on parking.

The thrill of Harvard students gained by a
report that unchaperoned women would be al-
lowed to visit Elliot House, a student dormi-
tory, vanished as university officials denied the

report. !
13

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY
“COCK OF THE AIR”
CHESTER MORRIS
TUESDAY
“STREET SCENE”
SYLVIA SYDNEY
WEDNESDAY
“ARSENE LUPIN”
JOHN BARRYMORE—LIONEL BARRYMORE
I THURSDAY and FRIDAY
“BUSINESS AND PLEASURE”
WILL ROGERS
| . SATURDAY

“GAY CABALLERO” |
GEORGE O’BRIEN

