THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

— The BWavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

t FOUNDED BY THE,CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
legiate Year. Entered as:second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD-O-; GUERRANT...-.-.-----------=- -Editor.
A. M. MANSON a

i

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARD Managing Editor
A, F, SCHENCK... = Managing Editor
W. M. THOM Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS. Mana: ud Editor
DI CASALI Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE. Exch itor
. W. WHITE F Editor
S. GAMBLE. Feature Editor
} T. GOODYKOONTZ Contributing Editor
. A. HANCOCK:: eview-Editor
D. D. McBRYDE i Editor
R. L. McCALLIE. ro Editor
C. F. MYERS. anus nee Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG A te Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JONSON Assist: i Manag
A. H. NSON. Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR : Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL olicitor
+A M. DOUGLAS. icitor
. L. GREEN. jicitor
W._P. SPRUNT. icitor
. R. TAYLOR......_. Solicitor
; A. C. WADSWORTH Solicit
. E. WHITE. Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
. E. LAKE President
S. GAMBLE. Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. y-Tr
M. W. ALDERMAN es McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN . L. McILWINEN
G. E. LY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
Pc BAUS WY one
}- E. BOYD E. L WE
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. TO: P. M. ROGERS
i B. FICKLIN B. L, ROSE
. L. GULLETTE T. H,. SUTTON
Age. HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K. D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W,.,.R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W..T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD } W. ITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS
NOVEMBER 16, 1932
They conquer-who-believe-they can, He has

not learned the lesson of life who does not each
day surmount an obstacle.
—Emerson.

EEE EAEENT » jeanne
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

week's issue.

—e—__——eEE ‘

The talks given by Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers in
the Fall Vesper Services should go a long way in
aiding the spiritual life of the students of this campus.

—D

It looks like Auburn in the Southern Conference
race. Tennessee has been virtually eliminated by
their tie with Vandy, and the Plainsmen have only
one more hard game, which is the one with the Geor-
gia Bulldogs.

We

State sprung a big surprise in beating Duke. This

puts the state race in a turmoil. It looks like a triple

With Homecoming past, all of our thoughts are
now concentrated on thé. Thanksgiving game with
Wake Forest. A win over this ancient rival would
‘give us an inently ful in football.
We feel like we have not played our best in several
games this fall, so we hope this added rest will put
the eleven in the best form possible.

D.

The Davidson orchestra, as in years past, is very
good and deserves the support of the student body.
—e——

We were very glad to see Buddy Gardner back

in the line-up, and hope he will not be injured before ie

the Wake Forest game, so he can contribute his share
in stopping the D D

Se
THE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY

A week ago last Tuesday the people of the

_ United States chose a Democrat to lead them
for the first time in twelve years. -Franklin, D.
Roosevelt carried the’United States in land-
slide proportions which some few predicted,
but which very few believed very firmly, would
materialize. Hoover was the third Republican
President who has ever been defeated in an ef-
fort to-be re-elected since the inception of the
party. Besides this, the Republican party also
lost control of the Congress of the United
States along with this Presidency in the land-

“is spent by these boys.

slide which swept from coast to coast. In
1928 Herbert-Hoover carried the country by
a large majority in the electoral college, and
he -had a slight majority in the Senate and
House of Representatives, but he was ham-
pered in his actions by the lack of support
from these two bodies, and later on in his term
even that small Republican majority was over-
thrown.

This situation, however, is very different.
Out of numerous Senators running for re-eléc-
tion, only.five Republicans were elected. The
rest were replaced by Democrats. Among the
more notable ones who failed to be re-elected
were Reed Smoot, Watson, and Bingham.
States which never before in history left the
G. O. P. standards were willing to give the
reigns of government for the next four years
to the Democrats.

There are probably many explanations of
this great reversal of form. Most agree that
it was not so much the inefficiency of the pres-
ent administration, although it had a large
part, but it was the universal desire of, a
change. There are many people in the United
States who probably think that Mr. Hoover
brought on the depression, and that Mr.
Roosevelt will lead us back to prosperity. We
believe that the present depression was
brought on by underlying causes and would
have come no matter who occupied the White
House. Of course the President can take a
large part in alleviating the suffering and do-
ing his part in bringing about the speedy close
of the economic disorder, but the Democrats
nor any other have any sure formula to end
the depression. If by some chance this de-
pression should end before 1936 it would re-
dound to the fame of Franklin D. Roosevelt,
but if it does not end in’ the next four years,
we are sure that the country will not again
elect a Democratic President, for the same
reason precisely that they did not re-elect the
incumbent. The Socialists base their hopes
on just such a circumstance, and although the
election of a Socialist seems unlikely at this
time, it may come to pass in shorter time than
we mjght have reason to expect.

The Democrats have a golden opportunity
before them now. They havea President and
complete control of Congress. If they carry
out the programs for reform which they have
been advocating, and if these turn out for the
good of the country, undoubtedly it will
strengthen the party, but on the other hand, if
they do not succeed in carrying out their re-
forms or campaign promises, they will have
no one to blame except themselves. No one
can tell just how the situation will work itself
out, but for students in political science it will
be a very interesting problem to observe.

See al, eee

- OUR GLEE CLUB —

Davidson spirit is. something about which
much has been written in many different pub-
lications, and something of which we should-
be justly proud, This word “spirit” has been
connected in most instances with our sports,
namely football, basketball, baseball, track,
etc. Naturally we should-support-our-teams
and we do support them exceptionally well,
but we are capable of-expressing that spirit
in many other phases.

Not long ago an article appeared in these
columns written by one of the students advo-
cating our support of dramatics at Davidson.
There are other activities here to which we
should give more time and thought. Our Glee
Club is such an organization which deserves
much more attention.than most of us at Da-
vidson devote to it. Twenty or thirty men in
our student body spend a large part of each
year in this activity and very few in the rest
of the student body recognize the time that
One manifestation of
this is the reception they receive in chapel
some mornings. These men were selected to
lead the singing in the student body in order
to improve it as much as possible, and they
are not there of their own volition, In proper
respect of their efforts, we ought to at least
recognize that they are expending their time,
not only for their own development but for
the improvement of Davidson,

Another point which we might bring up at
this time is that they represent_the—student—
body in many.instances, just'as much as the
football team doese.They give concerts in
many colleges throughout this part of the
South, and the impression they leave has much
to do with the high reputation which David-
son College enjoys throughout the whole
South.

Collegiate Ramblings
J.-E. Lake:

= Converse
Dr. E. M. Gwathmey, director of the Norfolk
branch of William and Mary College, has been elected
to become president of Converse College, sticceeding
Dr. Robert P. Pell, who retires after thirty years of
active and faithful service. Dr. Gwathmey will take
this position on January 1, 1933.

“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson, our former
coaches, who put out very good teams for Davidson

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

Robots are becoming more and more like humans.
Now they have even developed a sense of taste. This
discovery was recently made accidentally ~by Mr.
Hitchcock, of the Westinghouse Electric and Manu-
facturing Company. While eating his luncheon one
day it occurred to him that the acid content of a food
could be used as the electrolyte of a battery, the
amount of current produced depending upon the
amount of acid in the food. He tried this on an apple,
then on an orange, and found his theory was well
founded, This method of determining the sweetness
of a food would be very valuable in the canning in-
dustry.

Evangeline Adams, the famous astrologer, died re-
cently in her studio home in Carnegie Hall, New
York. She had for years been very popular as an
astrologer and had conducted a program over the
radio for several years. She claims to have predicted
correctly the death of King Edward VII and many
other important events. Her popularity is shown by
the fact that while she was broadcasting on the radio,
she received on an average of 4,000 letters daily, most
of which were from people asking for their horo-
scope. She was the originator of the Adams Phil-
osophy, “a compound of truths of all truths, applied
in the light of an intelligent optimism to the require-
ments of Western everyday life.”

Inventors have recently been working on a fire
alarm system which will prevent anyone from turn-
ing in a false alarm without being caught. Several
forms of alarm boxes have been tried, all of which
are based on the idea of making the operator of the
alarm a captive until he is released by the firemen
who answer the alarm. One form is a sort of hand-
cuff affair which holds the operator by the wrist until
he is released by the firemen. Another alarm sta-
tion is in a form of telephone booth into which the
operator must enter in order to give the alarm, Pull-
ing the alarm lever automatically locks the operator
in the booth. These inventions not only tend to de-

crease false alarms but make the person turning in '

the alarm wait until the firemen arrive so that he
can direct the firemen to the fire without ‘delay.

President Hindenburg, in a recent conference with
Chancellor Von Pape of Germany, expressed confi-
dence in the present cabinet and showed his willing-
ness to allow the cabinet to continue as it is. Hinden-
burg also desired that Van Papen confer with the
leaders of all the German political parties in order to
get the co-operation of the parties in the support of
the present cabinet. It is not known what attitude
Adolph Hitler will take toward this proposal of the
Chancellor. :

Now that the elections ,are all over and the votes
are counted, it is interesting to note the success of
the Literary Digest poll predicting the outcome. When
figured according to the popular votes, the Literary
Digest was 98.85 per cent correct, which is the ‘best
record the poll has ever made. “For the third time
in succession,” said William S. Woods, editor of the
magazine, “the huge nation-wide straw vote of the
Literary Digest has foretold correctly who would be
elected President. Weeks in advance it was clear
from the Digest figures that Governor Roosevelt
would sweep the country in a landslide. The straw
vote gave Roosevelt 474 electoral votes; he actually
will have 472. The straw vote gave Hoover 57 elec-
toral votes; he will have 59. It would be harder to
hit it straighter than that.”

According to the results, it looks as if Henry Dep-
ping would have gotten more votes in his race for
Republican nominee for attorney-general of Missouri
if he had not campaigned at all. The only county
of the 114 in Missouri in which Depping did not make
a speech was the only county he carried in the elec-
tion. Perhaps if he had stayed quietly at home, or
perhaps taken a trip around the world instead of
making speeches, he might have been eectee:

So-well-was-a cat mummified by the Egyptians
over 2,000 years ago that the English customs offi-
cials are holding the mummy at the offices because
the cat has such an air and look of newness. They
admit that the cat doesn’t look over 100 years old,
and therefore could not be considered an antique to
be admitted duty-free. They are awaiting the deci-

ten years and who are now coaches at V. P. L,
crashed both the V. P. I. paper and also the Uni-
versity of Alabama paper. Their pictures are in both
papers and there is a very good writeup about them
in The Crimson-White, the paper that terms itself:
“The South’s Leading College Newspaper.”

a ‘Wesleyan

Wesleyan recently held its annual superlative con-
test and the pictures of the winners are in the No-
vember 4th edition. The young ladies are not a bit
hard to look at. Most of them are from the good
state of Georgia, “Georgia Peaches,” but there is one
girl from Jacksonville, Fla, and one from Bre-
vard, N. C.

Agnes Scott

Dr. Robert W. Miles, who spoke to us .at our Fall
Services last year, will speak to the students of
Agnes Scott during their annual Week of Religious
Services from February 14-18.

. in the paper that the swimming tank at Con-
verse has a capacity of. 20,000 gals. Th’ass all there
is to it.

. the election come to an end. We wanta see
everybody be friends and forget there ever was such
a thing.

. a complete renovation going on at-the P. O.
The walls have been painted and! we think it’s quite
an improvement, to say. the least. It was worth the
trouble to put up with “wef paint” to have our mail-
ing station done over.

- one soph tell another that the reason a friend
of his is called human dynamo is because everything
he wears is charged. Can you bear it!

. . accommodating Dr. Brown tell’ Mr. Lore, the
Pleasant cashier at the bank, Wednesday last that
with Armistice’ and Homecoming there’ were two
many holidays-last week.

. . . the small son of one of the prominent profs.
yell to a little comrade, “I bet you didn’t have a good
time at’ your birthday party yesterday, because you’re
not sick today.”

... several other beau brummels about the campus
join the ever-increasing 'turtle-neck crowd. If my
resistance lasts I’ll not buy one of the things. How-
ever, I don’t know how long I’ll be able to say this.
Perhaps while you are reading this I'll’ be running
about in a turtle-neck myself!

- an amused member of the faculty tell about
asking a fresh if he had “proved” his. problem in
math. The fresh replied that “proved” was a strong
word, but he had rendered it “highly probable.”
What a whirl we live in!

eS “e
..+ Dr. Cumming bring over his entire fresh Eng-
lish~ctass-en iasse€ to inspect the new display of in-
teresting books. I went there myself in order t6
personally inspect it. Oh my, I’ve had a literary
accident; by dropping into the vernacular I bumped
a hard word and split an infinitive!

cy

. or rather heard, about a date a certain Senior
had with a Charlotte dame of a Sabbath. He and.
the girl were standing on the doorstep saying good-
night. I hear the father leaned from the upstairs
window and told him he had no objections to his com-
ing and sitting up half the night with his daughter,
but, in consideration to the rest of the household,
would he please take his elbow off the doorbell so
others could go to sleep? Heheheh.

Dear reader we are closing this time with a short
short story. We are better at poultry but we think
our stories: are good. We understand that the nut
and his money are soon parted, but we’d like to know
how the idiot got his money to begin with. But
let us go on with the story.

One stormy night 20 years ago 2 students were
walking back to Davidson-from Charlotte and they
saw a strange light at one place along the road that
aroused their curiosity. They were unable to explain
it but made a mental note of what happened to see
if it would have any significance in their lives.

Within ten days one of the boys received a tele-
gram stating that he had fallen heir to an estate near
Asheville. The other boy, who, was working his
way through college by waiting on tables, had a
dream the following night that he saw an interesting
item in the Charlotte Observer appearing at the bot-
tom of the first column on page three.

The next morning he turned to the place mentioned
and found an article telling about his uncle’s death
which left him a bank account sufficient to complete
his college course.

Since then it has become a custom with students
each year to try and discover this light, and strange
to say, it has been repeated and an unusual experi-
ence has come into the lives of those who saw it.

TIP POFF.

sion of technical experts on the age of the mummy
before they will let it enter England. This is said to
be an almost perfect specimen, with the ears and
even the whiskers in perfect condition. It is a great
monument to the science and civilization of the an-
cient Egyptians.

Everyone has heard the expression, “It was so quiet
you could hear a pin drop.” The origin of this say-
ing has been explained by a writer in the London
Morning Post. It seems that in the old days auction-
eers, instead of having hammiers, were supplied with
a candle and a pin. The ‘auctioneer stuck the pin
into the side of the burning candle about an inch
from the top and started the bids. The last. bid
made before the candle burned down to the Pin and
let it drop was the accepted price. It is said that
quiet always prevailed just before the pin fell, so the
crowd could hear the pin drop in this important mo-
ment. These “candle auctions” were usually held
for the sale of ships. There is one place in England
where these auctions are still held. In Aldermaston,
in Berkshire, the church wardens in the Parish auc-
tion off every three years some land known as God’s ©
Acre. The pin and candle method is used in this

affair.
