THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

ALUMNI

DEATHS

M. H. Wooten, ’71

Matthew Henry Wooten, who was one of
the five remaining graduates of .the class of
1871, died at his home at Clayton, N. C., on
January 11th. Mr. Wooten was 80 years of
age, having been born on April 1, 1851. He
had paid two visits to Davidson within. the
past four years, and each time was accom-
panied here by his college roommate and close
friend, Sidney H. Hearne, of Albemarle.

Before entering Davidson, Mr. Wooten -at-
tended Hillsboro Academy. Following his grad-
uation he was a merchant for a while, and
hecame a lawyer, largely by self-education, He
soon became associated in the program of edu-
cation, however, and a few years before his
death he resigned as superintendent’ of schools
of Duplin County after over two decades of
service in that capacity. He was president of
the Wooten family association of North Caro-
lina.

A. W. Brown, 99

Alfred William Brown, an alumnus’ of Da-
vidson in the class of 1899, died at the State
Hospital in Morganton on January 18th, death
being self-inflicted. He had become an inmate
of this hospital about a year ago, suffering from
melancholia and nervous disorders. His condi-
tion had greatly improved within recent weeks,
and he was allowed considerable liberties be-
cause of his improved condition,

Mr. Brown was 54 years old at the time of
his death: His particular interest was real es-
tate, but he was for many years actively iden-
tified with a number of civic enterprises in
Charlotte. He was president of the Mecklen-
_ burg Industrial Home, and did a considerable
amount of charity work, both the adminis-

i
tration of his own funds and ay committed
to his keeping.

D. M. Eaves, ’'01

Donald Matheson Eaves, 1901 alumnus of
Davidson, died at his home at Union, S. C.,
on December 17th, following a brief illness.
He was stricken with pneumonia a week be-
fore his death, and the ravages of this disease
took his life. He was 54 years of age at the
time of his death. Mr. Eaves entered Davidson
from Bamberg, S. C., and after leaving here
he «was in business there for many years. He
then became a planter and moved his home to

Union, S. C.

Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’09

Rey. Randall Alexander McLeod, 1909 grad-
uate of Davidson, died suddenly at his home at
Maxton on January 5th. A heart attack was
the cause of his death. He was ill only three
days. At the time of his death he was serving
as president of the Presbyterian Junior College
at Maxton, which institution he had headed
since its founding three years ago.

Before coming to Davidson from Carthage,
Mr. McLeod attended Raeford Institute, and
after his graduation here he went ‘to Union
Theological Seminary, at Richmond, where he
obtained his bachelor of divinity degree. He
held a pastorate in Virginia and several in
North Carolina. Before he assumed the presi-
dency of the Maxton institution he was ‘busi-
ness manager of the Elise High School,
Presbyterian institution.

Mr. McLeod was a veteran ‘of the World
War, serving as chaplain. At the time of his
death he was stated clerk of Fayetteville Pres-
bytery and stated clerk of the Synod of North
Carolina, both of which positions he had held
for a number of years.

a

Dr. M. A. Siske, °19

Information’ was only recently received of
the accidental death from drowning of Dr.
Manley A, Siske, which occurred on October 20,
1931. He was senior assistant physician of the
Kings Park State Hospital; Kings Park, Long
Island, N. Y., at the time of his drowning.

Dr. Siske entered Davidson from Troy. He
was in business for a number of years and
served with the U. S. Army during the World
war before he entered upon his medical prep-
aration. He graduated from the Virginia Med-
ical College, at Richmond, Va., in 1926. In Au-
gust, 1927, he entered the Binghamton State
Hospital, and transferred to the Utica (N. Y.)
State Hospital in October, 1927.

He remained there until January, 1930, when
he was appointed assistant physician of the
Kings Park State Hospital, and his work was

to the position he held when he died.

John W. Pope, Jr., ’20

John W. Pope, Jr., 1920 alumnus of David-
son, died in St!~Luke’s Hospital, New York,
on November 21, 1931, following an operation
for a lung infection. Just a short time before
his death he spent three weeks at’ Johns Hop-
kins Hospital in Balitmore where a minor op-
cration was performed.

At the time of his death, Mr. Pope was a
member of the New York Stock Exchange,
though he was only 32 years of age. After
leaving Davidson, he traveled extensively, and
spent some time in European schools. He re-
turned to America to graduate from the Uni-
versity of Alabama, and later he graduated
from the Harvard Business School. During the
World War he was in the aviation corps.

Mr. Pope, at 31, was a self-made multi-mil-
lionaire, and newspaper dispatches from New
York reported that he began his career with
$1,000, and amassed a fortune of $20,000,000 in
nine years’ time, though information from rela-
tives say that this amount was exaggerated.
Leaving Harvard he became connected with
Eastman Dillon Company, and as an individual
began his financial climb. So powerful:a figure
did he become that his firm made him a mem-
ber of the exchange. He acquired a seat in his
own name in April, 1930.

A column and a half was devoted by the As-
to the of Mr. Pope, in
which he was classified as a genius and a wiz-
ard. Editorial comment stated that the
of John W. Pope would one day be a legend
in Wall Street. .

Two years before his death, Mr. Pope was

sociated Press rise

story

charged with the violation of one of the rules
of the exchange’s constitution. He was required
to appear before a board of governors —of—43
men, but he cleared himself of the charge, and
the vote was unanimously “not guilty,” the only
time any member of the exchange has ever been
exonerated unanimously when a charge was
made against him.

P. B. Johnston, ’31

Preston B. Johnston, member of the class
of 1931, died at his home at ‘Benson, N. C.,
on January 25, death being caused by pneu-
monia. Mr. Johnston was only 23 years of age
when he died. He did not graduate from Da-
vidson, but left here to: become connected with
the firm which his father had established 35
years ago. He had shown unusual business abil-
ity, and friends had predicted a great success
for him when death intervened.

My Word

By M. C. Dew

At Davidson College there is a Mr. East
rooming with a Mr. West in South Dormi-
tory. With this fact in mind it would not be
hard to imagine a stranger on the Davidson
campus looking for East meeting with some
difficulty, such perhaps, as the following :

“Can you tell me which way is East?” in-
quires our stranger of a student.

“Yes. That direction,” the student points.

“But you do not understand. I mean a stu-
dent by the name of, East.”

“Oh! You will. find him
‘South.’”

“Now, young man, IT don’t mind a joke; I
was once a student myself. But I’m in a hurry.
Won't you please tell me where I can find
East ?”

“T wasn’t joking. Inquire for him at ‘South,’ ”
and the student points with his thumb in the
general direction of two dormitories, but his
thumb, weary from much thumbing, fails to
indicate® definitely which dormitory. Our stran-

with West in

‘Davidson Student*Body!
Reached New High Peak®

so efficient that a year later he was promoted4 Enrollment This Semester

Registration of Six Additional Stu-
dents Here Last Week Gave the
Institution a 1931-1932 Enroll-
ment of 647

FEWER WITHDRAWALS

Expenditures Being Watched. College
Said to Be in Relatively Good
Financial Condition

Student enrollment at Davidson College |
reached a new all-time peak here this week,
when six additional students registered for the
second semester, giving the college a total of
647 for the two semesters, .according to figures
which have been released by the registrar’s
office.

On top of this announcement came the addi-
tional encouraging. statement that there have
been fewér withdrawals from Davidson this
year than ever before, and that the average
student body enrollment for the scholastic ses-
sion, 1931-1932, will be above the normal fig-
ure.

The treasurer’s office at Davidson reported
that less than half a dozen students had with-
drawn at the close of the first semester solely
because of the lack of finances, which figure
was considerably lower than expected in the
face of numerous bank failures that have re-
cently occurred in North and South Carolina,
from which states Davidson draws about ‘half
of her student body.

From the president's office came the an-
nouncement that while no public campaign had
been conducted to hoost the loan funds of the
college, that a number of people who are in
a. position to do so, had been approached and
had contributed to the loan funds of the insti-
tution, which enabled the college to assist more
than the usual number of, stidents who apply
for loans from the college. However, the au-
thorities still need funds to assist students whose
financial condition is precarious.

What one father wrote to Davidson authori-
ties is considered typical of many parents, it is
believed. He stated that it was practically im-
possible for his.boy to get a job, because of the
scarcity of positions nowadays, and that® ‘it
would cost but little more to keep him at Da-
vidson than for him to remain at home with-
out work, This parent was consequently stretch-
ing the point to keep his son in college.

Davidson is a privately endowed institution,
and the income, of the college has not been
materially reduced the first half of the schol-
astic year. The financial situation of Davidson
is therefore relatively good. This should not
be interpreted to mean that the institution is
not having to watch its finances carefully.

Officials are limiting their expenditures and
are curtailing any expense that is not abso-
lutely necessary. “This is done,” they said, “not
because of present necessities, but to anticipate
the possibility of a shrinkage in income from
investments, or from a decrease in the size of
the student body.”

ger decides to try some one else, and walks
to one of the dormitories where he interviews
another student.

“Ts this ‘South’?” he asks.

“No, ‘North,’ that's ‘South’ just opposite.”

“Of course. Thanks.” He leaves before a
chance is had to get in any more words, and
walks in the door of South Dormitory and finds
East’s name on the directory 6pposite number
313. He climbs the stairs, makes his way to
room 313, and knocks.

“Come in the house,” a voice shouts.

“Thanks,” he says after eritering. “Is this
East ?”

(Continued on page 6)

a

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’

WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc:

o
“SODA”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors here this week-end
were Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, of Charlotte;
Sam Smith, ’29, of Charlotte; W. B. Han-
cock, ’31, of Rock Hill, S. C., and Spencer
McCallie, ’32, of University, Va.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of:
I. W. Durham, father of Dr. Albert Durham,
92, of Tuxedo, and of Sloan M. Robinson,
father of Coit M. Robinson, ’10, of Lowell.

Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, who has been
working in Statesville for some time, is now
connected with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.,
accountants, in Charlotte.

Rev. J. B. Sloan, Jr., '23, who for the past
several years has been studying at the Yale
University Divinity School, has become pastor
of the Presbyterian Church at Waynesboro, Ga.

L. B. Huie, ’26, has been transferred from
Charlotte to Columbia, S. C., by the Southern
Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company.

Dr. R. H..Crawford, ’10, member of the
medical staff of Rutherford Hospital, yester-
day spoke before the meeting of the Rutherford
County Medical Society.

At a meeting last week of the North and
South Carolina and Virginia section of the
American College of Surgeons, Dr. Robert F.
Abell, '08, of Chester, S. C., was re-elected
secretary of the South Carolina division of
that body.

Jas. H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, president
of the North Carolina Real Estate Board, is
being urged to run for the Democratic nom-
ination of the North Carolina House of Rep-
resentatives from Mecklenburg County.

Rev. C. L. King, D.D., '14, pastor of the
Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church at Rich-
mond, Va., has accepted a call to the First
Presbyterian Church of Houston, Texas, and
will enter upon his work in Houston the first
of March.

Neill R. Currie, ’23, is a research chemist
with the Upjohn Company, at Kalamazoo,
Mich. Since graduating from Davidson Mr.
Currie has taken graduate work at Cornell and
Northwestern, taught at Hiram College in Ohio,
and last year did research chemical work for a
New York concern.

C. C. Carson, Jr., °28, is now in charge of
the group department of the Aetna Life Insur-
ance Company for the state of Kansas. His
headquarters are in Topeka.

J. F. Hurley, '93, editor of The Salisbury
Post, was last week made vice-president of the
Salisbury Medical Foundation, an organization
founded for the purpose of erecting and equip-
ping a $125,000 office and hospital building.

Rev. Q. N. Huneycutt, Th.D., '19, has ac-

cepted a call to the Indian Trail and Siler
Presbyterian churches. He has been pastor of |
a group of four churches near Waxhaw for the |
past 11 years. |

Rev. W. M. Fairley, D.D., '95, pastor of the
Presbyterian Church at Raeford, has been given |
a leave of absence for 60 days, during which
time he will be closely identified with Presby- |
terian Junior College at Maxton in carrying |

out his duties as chairman of the expansion
committee of that* institution.

Geo. F. Harper, ’86, of Lenoir, has been re-
elected president of the Nelson and Whitnel
cotton mills of that city.

G. T. Preer, '29, is now studying at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, working toward his doc-
torate’s degree in philosophy. Since graduation,
Mr. Preer has studied for a year at Brown
University, Providence, R. I., and spent another
year at Harvard.

Alvin T. Rowe, Jr., ’25, is connected with
the American Legion at Bogota, Columbia.
Prior to going there in August, 1931, he was
stationed at Bluefields, Nicaragua. Mr. Rowe
completed a diplomatic course in Washington,
D., C., preparatory to foreign service with the
government.

Dr. S. M. Wrenn, ’23, is an interne at the
United States Veterans Hospital at Lincoln,
Nebraska. Dr. Wrenn completed his medical
training at the Medical College of South Car-
olina, at Charleston.

4

The Greensboro Daily ‘News last Sunday car-
ried a column and a half feature article about
Jas. C. Harper, °15, of Lenoir, and his work
with the Lenoir High School band, perennial
winner of state championships and nationally
known musical club. Mr. Harper was described
as “a banker, a trust expert, an authority on
corporate stock, and a furniture manufacturer

. and a builder of citizenship and character
in young boys.”

Jas. H. McConnell, Jr., °25,
insurance business, is now
Southern Dairies, Inc., in Asheville,

formerly in the

connected with

Paul B. Price, ‘24, is state representative of
Arkansas for Allyn and Bacon, book publishers,
of Boston, Mass; Mr. Price’s headquarters are
at Marianna, Ark,

V. A. Milton, ’30, recently resigned his posi-
tion with the Hand Trading Company at Pel-
ham, Ga., and is now connected with the In-
vestors Syndicate. His headquarters will be at
Thomasville, Ga.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, '23, who played base-
ball with the Columbus, Ohio, club last sea-
son, led the American Association in the num-
ber of runs driven in during the season. Mr.
Crawford played in 157 games, and drove in 154
runs. He was walked 67 times during the sea-
son. He will be with the St. Louis Cardinals
next season.

O¢ ‘omplele Service

forSchool Publications

Yunuals
Detueeztnes

Cartel as

dieu Books
Queen Cily PrintmaCo.

Chartotte DI? CC

i)

Beh PB we.

le RR). De athe is tate se

Without Extra Cost. Come

Stetson “D” Store

Offers With Every Spring Suit Bought During the Month of
February

A Free Pair of Pants or Knickers

Patterns Over

Clothes For the College Man

wat ASSET | LAM gs ed Oa I ag

in and Look the New Spring

