THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Where East

Meets West

San Francisco’s Chinatown is exotic ..\. bizarre...a
touch of the Orient in a cosmopolitan city. Temples, joss

house and strange shops are lures in this

section.

far-transplanted

—from Californians Inc. &

Chinatown

(NOTE: This is one of a series of
requested—articles written by Jack Wil-
liams, Jr., in connection with his visit to
the National Editorial Association meet-
ing in California this summer.)

Like Rome, San Francisco is built on seven
hills. . These hills give the city a picturesque
effect, making it seem to jut out of the Pa-
cific with a thrust of eternity. On the sec-
ond day of our stay we assembled at the
Whitcomb ;Hotel where we started on the
“25-Mile Wonder Drive.” Passing the Civic
Center we came to the auditorium facing
the square, which is one of the magnificent
buildings set down in the heart of this great
city. $

We saw the Palace of Fine Arts, priceless
heritage of the 1915 Exposition, and the
Presidio. The cliffs of this historic spot are
studded with sixteen-inch guns, and the stuc-
co barracks gleam on their tree-covered
slopes.

Lincoln Park.marks the.termination of the
Lincoln Highway which crosses the United
States. Mounting Camino del Mar we saw
the Cliff House and Seal Rocks. At Golden
Gate a.thirty:minute stop was made at the
M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, a won-
derful monument to the public spirit of the
people of San Francisco: Other spots of
interest--were the Palace of the Legion of
Honer,-a-_white. marble building holding
many priceless collections of art, and the
California School of Fine Arts on Russian
Hill.

Golden_Gate is the largest man-made park
and is a fine expression of landscape engi-
neering. It was transformed from a vast
waste of sand dunes to a veritable fairyland
of gem-like lakes, forests, streams, water-
falls, and gardens. There are miles of drives
lined with evergreen trees, smooth lawns,
bosky dells and lakes. The paths are flower-
bedecked_and_along their sides are rare trop-
ical plants, lilies and ferns. On the hill above
is the Aviary filled with birds bright as flow-
ers in their dazzling plumage. a

Fleischhacker Pool is municipally owned
and is the largest open-air warmed salt
water pool on the globe, having a capacity
of 6,000,000 gallons of water. The Dutch
windmill nearby pumps the water into-the
park that is used in watering the shrubs and
flowers.

Returning to the beach via South Drive
we saw miles and miles of automobiles
parked on the highway running parallel to
the ocean. As we turned inland the estate
of Adolf Sutro. Comstock; millionaire and
ex-San Francisco mayer, was pointed out.

At Twin Peaks the bus made a figure “8”
driving up to the top of Telegraph Hill.
Here in the early days a semaphore an-
nounced the approach of ships through the
gate to the town below. It rises between
the docks and the Latin Quarter, command-
ing a superb yiew of the expanse of water
and encircling mountains. On its sides hang
artists’ shops and studios made so famous
in literature. From its heights is a panorama
representing 1,500,000 population, or about 30
per cent of the whole population of Cali-
fornia. Across the bay we noticed Sather
Campanile, an imposing tower on the cam-
pus of the University of California, at
Berkely.

San Franciscans themselves like to go to
Fisherman’s Wharf, where the Madonna-
blue boats bob with the tide. This is a
sight that makes a person realize something
of the cosmopolitan nature of this city. All

along the. waterfront are heard. strange
tongues, ‘strange faces seen. The treasures
of the Orient are discharged here. The docks
being covered with silks and teas from
Japan and China.

The fishermen are entirely of the Otd
World, both in ‘their rapid soft speech and
of tams, baggy trousers
and high rubber boots. Following the Em-
barcadero towards the Ferry Building we
passed Meiggs Wharf. From this spot Stev-
enson got many of his strange tales from
bold sailors who had breasted many a stormy
gale and visited in foreign climes. On the
way back to the hotel we passed Crissy
Field just.inside Golden Gate on San Fran-
cisco airport.

That night we were driven to Chinatown
in a fleet of Yellow Cabs. On the fringe of
the shopping district the pagoda gables of
Chinatown are seen overhanging the street.
Mhe Far East and Moon cafes served us
with a delicious Chinese dinner high above
the streets below. Grant Avenue présents
an exotic picture at night. A narrow street
piercing the largest settlement of Chinese
in the Western Hemisphere peopled chiefly
by merchants and artisans with their wives
and their American-born children, including
boys and girls as smartly dressed as Ameri-
cans. Here are imposing bazaars packed
with lacquers, embroideries, ©sandalwood
boxes and curios. e

Women attired in gorgeous silks and satins
passed on the street and men in blagk alpaca
shuffled along, their slippers making a soft
sound-on ¢he pavement..-We paused before
the windgws’ of some'of these shops. Be-
hind the glass were beautiful works of art,
in gold and jade. “Beads, chains, carved
charms—all in a setting of richness. Inside
another shop. we saw sharks’ fins, candied
ginger, and other delicacies that/ delight the
palate of the Chinaman.

costumes woolen

Chinese, children receive two ¢ducations at|
one time. Besides the instruction given in!
the American schools is the program sttid-
ied in the arts and Chinese: history learned
at one of the many Chinese evening schools.
We visited Nam Kue Academy, a place mod-
eled after a temple in Pekin.

Of particular interest is the Joss House
maintained by the Kong Chow Society. Here
are the images of many of China’s heroes,
and also the ever-peaceful Buddha. A Joss
House is a House of God and this is one
of the most famous temples in Chinatown.

The Chinese telephone exchange is one of
the curiosities of Chinatown. It has more
than 2,400 subscribers all listed by names,
no numbers being used. A Chinaman sel-
dom calls by the designated number—he just
asks for “Ching Lee,” and the operator con-
nects him with the party. This makes it nec-
essary for the €hinese girls to memorize all
the names.

Later we visited the Chinese “Six Com-
panies,’ which acts as a court or board of
arbitration in industrial and domestic dis-
putes. The Chinese Four Families corre-
sponds to our Bohemian Club and is one of
the richest societies in the country. The Lees
and Wongs, and others, are organized into
family associations for protection, or the ad-
vancement of all persons having their sur-
names.

Next we visited two Chinese theaters, the
Great China and Mandarin. These are two
of the best legitimate Chinese theaters out-
side of China. A great deal is left to the
imagination for most of the acting is in
pantomine. If a person wants to go through
the action of climbing upstairs he lifts up

Fred Smyre.

Hear the Chesterfield
Radio Program. Mondays,
Wednesdays, Fridays —
10 p.m., Tuesdays, Thurs-
days, Saturdays—9 p.m.,
E.D.T. Columbia Network.

one foot and then the other. rd set some-
thing on fire is indicated by throwing a red
rag tied to a stick.

We were greatly impressed with the great
drama unfolded before us. During the entire
performance strangé music was heard com-
ing from one side of the stage. We were
told that the plays last even longer than
Eugene O'Neill's, in fact from 7:30 until 1
a; m. Stars from Canton and Shanghai ap-
pear in these two theaters regularly. After
the great din heard at the theater our ears
were still ringing’ when we returned to the
hotel.

JUNIOR ELECTION

(Continued from page 1)
Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, and the Foren-
sic Council.
The office vacated by McClintock, Student
Councilman, remained unfilled and at the
same time the voting for the vice-president

was going on, voting for this office was car-

The following men were nomi-
Charlie Rives, Lyman Clardy and
On the first ballot Lyman
Clardy was eliminated, leaving either Rives
or Smyre to be elected. At the count of the
last ballot Fred Smyre had been elected.
Smyre is a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity and Sigma Delta Psi... He is also
a Junior basketball! assistant.

The election of these men placed the class
in a normal condition, ready to carry on
their usual activities as a class.

ried out.
nated:

’

/

too much, Aa

© 1932, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co.

ugh ‘Turkish, da¢ 2of

Turkish tobacco is to cigarettes what seasoning is
to food... the “spice,” the “sauce.” You don’t want
too much seasoning in food. Or in a cigarette. But
you do want, enough!

Chesterfield uses just the right amount of Turkish
tobacco--Not’too much, but just enough to give to
Chesterfield the finishing touch of better taste and
aroma.

Smoke a Chesterfield... and taste the difference.

hestertield

a
aan

“DRUGS” “SODAS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

a
A

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

I have enclosed $2.00, for which please send me THE
DAVIDSONIAN to the address below, for the school year
1932-1933.

