HAVE YOUR
PICTURE
TAKEN

The

Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DEBATING
TRYOUTS
SOON

Vol. XX .

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

No. 3

Washington and Lee to
Meet Davidson Wildcats
Here Saturday, Oct. Ist

Davidson Eleven Will Present Power-
ful Defensive Wall Against
Enemy’s Attack

CAPTAIN GARDNER OUT
Generals Were Defeated by George

Washington University Last
Saturday

The Davidson Wildcats will play their
game on the home gridiron of the 1932

first
sea-

son this coming Saturday, October 1, The
‘Cats will be host to the Washington and!
Lee Generals of Lexington, Va., and are!

anxious to get revenge for their defeat last
Saturday. Both teams opened their current |
seasons last Saturday, each eleven having a
loss checked up against them. However, the
strength of neither team has been justly
determined and the coming game promises
a fight from Start to finish.

Reports from Washington and Lee state
that Coach Jimmy Dehart, former Duke Uni-
versity mentor, who took over the coaching
duties of the Generals for the first time last
year, has one of the smallest squads in the
history of the school. Coach Dehart has had
only twenty-four men from which to pick
an eleven and despite this handicap has built
up a promising team, lacking only in re-
serves. The Generals have only five veter-
ans back this year, their hope depending
mostly upon Sophomores and two or three
Juniors. New men will fill the tackle posi-
tions and also center and fullback positions.
Two Seniors, Bacon and Collins, will take
care of the halfback posts and they have
been spotted as the major threats of the
Washington and Lee eleven. Collins starred
in last year’s lineups and is expected to do
much of the team’s scoring this year.

The Generals lost their opening game to
George Washnigton University last Satur-
day at Lexington, Va., by an 18-0 score. The
W. & L. team put up a good fight against
a heavier and craftier Washington Univer-
sity team, atvd were beaten principally by
the passing attack which the Colonials staged
very efficiently. |

Last year the Wildcats put up a stubborn
defense to hold a heavy Washington and
Lee team scoreless and furnished just enough
scoring punch at the right time to shove
across a lone touchdown for a 7-0 victory.
The Davidson team was much lighter_than
the Generals and was also greatly lacking in
reserves. The ’Cats played stellar football
the whole game and staved off touchdown
drives by the Generals on their own six,
twelve and thirteen-yard lines during the
third and fourth quarters. In the third quar-
ter the Wildcats started on a drive down
the field which resulted in a touchdown made
by McQueen. This score resulted in what
was termed an upset victory for the ‘Cats.

This year the setting will be different. The
teams will meet on Davidson's home field,
which means an unusually hard fight from
the ‘Cats and strong support from the side-
lines. The Wildcats also outweigh and have
more reserve material than do the Generals.
And, too, the Wildcats will display a new
style of offense and defense this year which
looks mighty good and has untold strength.

With-the defensive play that. Davidson dis-
played against Duke last Saturday they will
present a stone wall for the offense of the
Generals to penetrate. If the backfield func-
tions properly there is no reason why the
Wildcats shouldn't come out
their next game.

The team will be greatly handicapped,
however, in that it will be minus the steady

(Continued on page 4)

victorious in

Students Urged to
Have Pictures Taken

On’ Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, October 3, 4 and 5, the photog-
raphers from Wooten-Moulton Com-
pany will be at Davidson to take pho-
tographs of students for QUIPS AND
CRANKS, the college annual. All stu-
dents who have not yet had their pic-
tures made are urged to have them
taken in the parlor of West during this
time-in order that the work of com-
Piling the annual may proceed quickly
and the annual can be released on time.

Rev. Marshall Woodson
Gives’ Inspiring Message
to Students at: Vespers

Lyman Clardy Conducts Service and
Bob McCallie Leads in Prayer

VOCAL SOLO BY WILLIAMS

Salisbury Pastor Takes as Text, “Ye
Must Be Born Again” |

~ :
Last Sunday evening Y. M. °C. A. vesper

Services were condueted by Lyman Shah

The text read was John 3:1-13, concerning
the rebirth in Christ. Bob McCallie led the |
students in prayer, and a vocal selection was
given by Grainger Williams. |

The speaker of the evening was the Rev. |
Marshall “Woodson, of Salisbury. He took
as the theme of his talk the seventh verse |
of the text, “Ye must be born again.”

“In Atlanta last summer,” said the Rev.
Woodson, “I was talking with Gypsy Smith,
and in the course of the: conversation I
asked him what was-his favorite theme. He
replied that he thought the necessity for
the rebirth of a man before he can hope to
attain to a really spiritual outlook.” The
speaker continued to point out the many
great preachers who have taken this as the
main subject of their preaching. “James
Coy, when-in-London, once preached on this
topic and converted a young man in_ his
congregation named Booth,” said Dr. Wood-
son, “and Booth went out of that church to)
convert millions of souls with the story of}
his wonderful conversion, by that great Bra
ganization, the Salyation Army.” Many other
preachers have used this marvelous theme
throughout history; and the greatest of all
of them was the Master.

_At the age of twelve He amazed the Jews
by teaching the priests in®the ‘temple. Dur- |
ing three years of the greatest ministry of |
the world Jesus taught a way of life more|
wonderful than any_other. One might think |
that His way of life might be followed by
much diligence in matters of the body, of
the character, of the mind and intellect, but)
Jesus said to Nicodemus, a man of culture
and intellect, “You must again.”
There are four reasons why people must be

be born

Jorn again:

First, a man unregenerated has no. desire
for spiritual this. Often an in-|
difference to things of the soul in people
who have plenty of other interests. They |
follow eagerly developments insports, the)
literary, dramatic, artistic, and in the world!
of pleasure, but seldom do they come to
church. It is because the people have not)
been born again in Christ. The natural man

If |

We sec

has no yearning for the higher things.

‘you put before an African, who is accus-|

tomed to delight in a stew of red ants, woolly |
worms, and dog meat, a model Thanksgiving
dinner, he would sniff at it and then—turn
to his ants and worms and dog. He simply |
would have no desire for the better things.

Secondly, until a man is born again he
hasn't the ability to live by Christ.
was dead.

Lazarus |
Martha nor Mary nor any of

the Jews could ever have raised him, but

Jesus had light from God, and Lazarus |
walked from the—tomb at His~ command. |
Mell Trotter used to be a drunkard. Seven |
times he made a blood-sealed covenant with
God never to’touch another drop of liquor.
Seven times he broke his covenant. His little
baby died; and over its pitiful body he swore

(Continued on page 6)

Fraternities to Give

°
Houseparty This Week
On next Saturday, October 1, the Pan-
Hellenic Council, representing the ten so-

cial fraternitics of the campus, will sponsor
its first house party of the year 1932-33.
The’ main features. are the football game
with Washington and Lee Saturday after-
noon and a dance Saturday night.

The dance will be held at the Charlotte
Hotel with informal dancing from nine till!
twelve. The Troubadours Orchestra that
have acclaimed state-wide honors will fur-|
nish the music.

The Council is permitted three house ipar-
ties a semester and this is the first of the
set, the Freshman house party, not being in-
cluded. 7

The Council has as its_presideéiit this year
W. F. Mulliss of Martinsburg, W. Va., who
succeeds A, H,/ Whitehead, of Wilming-
ton, N. C. ‘ :

{

| very interesting way the speaker discussed
) Oriental characteristics in dealing with this

;men are tackles and*have already proven

“ef his ability as a player. 4
Cole Windham, alternate captain, comes
| . . . .
to -Davidson from Gastonia High School.

! Wildkittens show -him-to~be-a real fighting

Political Situation of
Modern Chinese Nation
Discussed by Dr. Price

Davidson Graduate of 1917 Explains
Sino-Japanese Situation to
Students

FIVE PARTIES IN CHINA

Students of History and Political Sci-
ence Classes Interview Dr. °
Price

The Davidson College student body had
the pleasure of hearing, during the chapel
period last Friday, Dr. Philip B. Price of
the class 1917, Dr. Price a medical
missionary to China and he «was exceeding-
ly capable of discussing his subject. He
spoke on the present political situation in
China, outlining the platforms of the five
parties. He gave the purposes of the parties,
the classes which supported each, and their
comparative strength,

During the period after chapel he talked
informally to the members of some of the
history and political science classes on ex-
isting conditions in China, tracing the polit-
ical history of that country during recent
years.

ot 1s

The speaker reviewed the status of
the parties now in existence as he had dis-
cussed them in the preceding period, dwell-
ing particularly on the Peoples party. This
party is the outgrowth of the conservative
wing of Dr. Sun Yat army,
power.

Dr, Price explained that the Siito-Japanese
situation now existing is more or less a mys-

Sin’s now in

tery to the outside world since Japan's ob-

ject in her aggressiveness was vague. Tn a

In closing, he named several works
that might be read by students interested
in) these problems, including the report to
be made to the League of Nations by a com-
mittee appointed by that body. to investigate
the Sino-Japanese affair, which report, if un-
favorable to Japan, may cause her with-
drawal from the League, and Pearl Buck's
prize-winning novel, “The> Good Earth.”

Dr. Price comes from a very distinguished
family. His father, Dr. P. Frank Price, has
been a missionary to China for overeforty
years and is now a professor at Union The-
ological Seminary in Nanking, China. His
Frank W. the
class of 1915, is an outstanding missionary
and _theological_teacher—in— China: —Another
brother, Dr, Julian P. Price, finished here in
the Of. ee, Dri himself
born in China and after, finishing at Davidson
studied meédicine at the University of Vir-
ginia and Johns Hopkins University. He
then returned to his native land he
practices medicine and teaches in
Shantung University.

problem.

older brother, Drz Price, of

class Price was

where
surgery

Cathey Elected Head
c. Oh Wildkitten Squad

Windham Named Alternate Captain by
Squad. in Recent Election

At the Freshman football
squad on Thursday, September 22, Henry
Cathey, was elected captain of the 1932 Wild-
kitten eleven. At the same time Cole Wind-
ham alternate soth

a meeting of

was elected captain,
themselves worthy of these honors.

Henry Cathey is a graduate of Central
High of Charlotte, for three
he played tackle on the powerful Charlotte
Hé was considered one of the most
aggressive tackles in North Carolina high
school football, and is expected to make a
name for himself in collegiate foothall cir-
cles in the near future. Cathey’s record as
All-State tackle 1930 and 1931, and All-
Southern in 1931 tends to indicate something

where years

team.

in

Windham also served three years at tackle,
having obtained his knowledge of football
from Coach Jan Jankoski, former Duke Uni-
versity grid star. Windham shared with
| Cathey the distinction of being chosen All-
| State tackle in 1931. His high school rec-
jord and his performance thus far with th?

| Witdeat in the making, and one who will
| be heard from soon.

TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES
ISSUE THEIR: ANNUAL FALL
INVITATIONS TO FRESHMEN

Injured Captain

| (Continued on page 6)

" @UDOY OARONER- CENTEFe CS

“Buddy” Gardner, captain of the Davidson
Wildcats, received a knee injury in the
Duke-Davidson game Saturday and may be
lost to the team for the remainder of the
season,

Dr. G. B. Watts is Gaining
Recognition for Works
in Field of Literature

“Books Abroad” Features His Article
On Le Cercle de Francais

B.

at

Dr. G.
partment
wide reeognition

Watts, head of the French de-
Davidson College, is receiving
for his published articles
the field foreign literature. In the
current edition of “Books Abroad,” published
by the University of Oklahoma, Dr. Watts’
discussion of “Le Cercle de Famille,” latest
novel by Andre Maurois, occupies a prom-
inent place in the section “Headliners.” ‘This
section is devoted only to recent books which
are widely. discussed or which merit special

(Continued on page 6)

in of

|

Freshman“CakeRace”’
to Be Held Thursday

First Twenty Men to Finish Course
‘Will Be Awarded Prizes

“Cake Race”
will be held Thursday afternoon, September
d/ back of
The race will begin promptly

Davidson's annual Freshman

29, over the mile course Rich-
ardson lield.
at 4:30 in front of the stadium.

All first-year amen, except those out
Freshman football, are’ expected. to

Twenty prizes, presented by local boarding

for

enter.

houses, will be awarded to the first twenty
men to finish,

The is held to
track material among the Freshmen and to
reveal possible distance runners for this fall’s
Freshman cross-country team,

Rufus Morrow, member of the varsity
cross-country team, holds the record for the

(Continued on page 6)

race each year discover

Percentage of Men ’Réceiving Bids
This Year Somewhat Higher
Than Previously

16 UPPERCLASSMEN BID

New Men Not to Be Initiated Until
Second Semester

The pledging of 110 men by the ten social
fraternities of Davidson College was recently
announced by the Pan-Hellenic Council, rep-
resenting the various organizations. The per-
centage of those receiving bids is somewhat
higher than usual. Following the college
rule, these men will initiated until
the beginning of the second semester of col-:
lege life, and then only after passing a mini-
mum of four subjects.

Several of the upperclassmen were extend-
ed bids this year, and this group is also larger
than it usually is. The names of the new
pledges,,including the upperclassmen, are:,

Beta Theta Pi: Moreland Cunningham,
Sophomore, New London, Conn.; Parks Har-
rison, Junior, Mt. Ulla; William Coffin, Ash-
boro; James Huntington, Wilmington; Ed-
mund Johnson, MecAlpin, W. Va.; Robert
Richardson, Reidsville; Jake Balsley, Reids-
ville; Cole Windham, Gastonia; Tom Ross,
Concord; Donald Winter, Summit, N. J.
Alpha Epsilon: ~ Mark Houston
Senter, Chattanooga, Tenn.; William A.
Murechant, Il, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Archie
W. Shuford, Hickory; John T. Plunket, ‘TI,
Sophomore, Greenville, Texas; Addison G,
Brenizer, Jr. Charlotte; Thomas W. Mar-
chent, Greenville, S.-C.; Robert D. Dodge,
Jacksonville, Fla.; Erasmus H. Evans, Fay-
Gastonia ;

not be

Sigma

otteville; Eugene R. Matthews,
William) Lamont Brown, Barium.

Kappa Sigma: John Pearce, Plant City,

Fla.; Maleolm Grimes, Lexington; Charles
Thompson, Lexington; Robert B. Lindsey,
Winston-Salem; Presser Morrow, West
Point, Ga.; Joe Dees, Greensboro;, Alvin

Stevens, Schenectady, N. Y.; Treadway Pur-
nell, Spartanburg, S. C.; Hank Loften, Gas-
tonia, :

Pi Kappa Phi: John Miller, Junior, Jef-
ferson, S. C.; George Smith, Junior, Flor-

ence, S. C.; Michael Arrowsmith, Florence,
Ss. C.; John Willis, Edgemoor, S. C.; Ralph
Hunter Smith, Junior, Dillon, S. C.: Don

Stewart, Pinehurst; Bob Tissue, Mt. Hope,
W. Vai; Mills Taylor, Wilmington, N. C.;
George Ross,’ Sophomore, Wadesboro,

Phi Delta Theta: Warner: Wells, Green--
wood, Miss.; Walter Brown, Davidson; Dan
Griffen, Charlotte; William (Goodykoontz,
Bluefield, W, Va.; John Partridge, Atlanta,
Haskell Eaurens; 95, Gis
Careton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Richard
Parker, Farmyille: Carlyle Lewis, Davidson;
Albert Asheville; J Simpson,
Sophomore, Athens, James Cothran,
Quebec, Canada; Val Cassels, Montgomery,
Alabama.

Kappa Alpha: Wiliam Cannon, Concord;
Tom Downie, Little Rock, Ark.; Joe John-
tarium; Harvey MeConnell, Chester,
S$. C.; Buck Barrenger, Charlotte; James
McQue, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ned Whitton,
Charlotte; Sam Hutatf, Fayetteville; Regi-
nold. Harris, Roxboro; Baxter Yarborough,
Kaunapolis; Herbert Wright, Clover, S..C.;
Thomas Dutf, Chattanooga, Tenn. *

W. H. Alford, Ken-
6)

Ga, Sanders,

Price, lames

Ga.;

ston,

Sigma Phi Epsilon:

(Continued on page

Debating Tryouts
Come in October

There is much preparation for a suc-
cessful season in forensic this “year.
The Council is expecting many to try
out. The varsity debating tryouts will
be held during the month of October,
those for the Freshmen will follow at
a later date.

The officers of the Council for this
year are: Leland McKeithan, presi-
dent; Jake Mackorell, vice-president;
Jack Williams, Jr., secretary and de-
bate manager, and Skip Brown, treas-
urer.

