THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

i}

ENGAGEMENTS

(Continued from page 4)
Fowler-McCain

“Mrs. Paul D. Womeck, of Orangeburg, S.
C., announces the engagement of her daughter,
Berta, to Watt McCain, of Lexington, and Kan-
sas City, Mo., the wedding to take place in
July.”

Mr. McCain completed his degree at David-
son in 1924, and ‘almost ever since graduation
he has been connected with the Mathieson
Alkali Works. For several years he was lo-
cated in New York, was transferred to Tulsa,
Okla., and more recently has been sent to Kan-
sas City. Miss Womack obtained her educa-
tion at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C.

DeBusk-Helm

DeWitt Frederick Helm, of Kenly, 1929 grad-
uate of Davidson, and Miss Blanche DeBusk,
of Saltville, Va., will be married on May 24th.
After completing his work here, Mr. Helm went
direct to Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., where he obtained his bachelor of |
divinity degree on May 10th. He has accepted |
a call to a group of churches at West Jeffer-
son, where he is to be installed on June 5th.
Miss DeBusk obtained her education at Emory

and Henry. |

Coleman-Covington

“Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Coleman, of Gallivants |

._ Ferry, S. C., announce the engagement of their |

daughter, Frances Louise, to Robert Thomas |

Covington, of Clio, S. C., the wedding to take

place early in July.” Mr. Covington is a 1932

alumnus of Davidson, and since leaving here
has been in business at Clio.

Heyerdale-Martin

Information has been received at Davidson of
the engagement of Dr. William Joseph Martin,
Jr., 1923 graduate of the college, to Miss Louise
Heyerdale, both of Rochester, Minn., the wed-
ding to take place in June. After finishing here,
Dr. Martin attended the medical schools at the
University of North Carolina and the University
of Pennsylvania..He did his resident interne-
ship in Philadelphia, and for the past two years

has been studying under a fellowship at the
Mayo Clinic.

DAVIDSON GRADUATES

(Continued from page 4)
ilton, 27, Davidson, and Rev. R. H. Poole, '22
Elizabethtown.

Frank Hall, '29, won the Hoge Fellowship;
T. E. Hill, ’29, was named the Salem Fellow;
R. F. Kirkpatrick, ’29, was awarded the Larus
Fellowship, and Chas. F. McRae, ’28, was re-
appointed to the Thomas Cary Johnson Fellow-
ship.

Among the graduates who have accepted calls
are P. F. Jones, ’27, assistant pastor, First
Presybterian Church, St. Petersburg, Fla.; A.
N. Brown, ’29, Ronceverte, W. Va.; W. E.
Hill, Jr., ’29, Hopewell, Va.; R. F. Sloop, ’29,
Aliceville, Ala., and D. F. Helm, ’29, West
Jefferson. '

Vernon Broyles, '27, who did post-graduate
work at Union this year, and Rev. Julian Lake,
’28, pastor at Warrenton, Va., are now touring
Palestine. Mr, Broyles will join a group of three
others who will’ study in Germany next year.
These men, most of whom will be at the Uni-
versity of Tubingen, will be Mr. Broyles, T.
E. Hill, ’29, Rev. T. H. Hamilton, ’27, and
Chas. F. McRae, ’28.

Davidson alumni holding offices at Union
next year include E. H. Clarke, ’30, vice-presi-
dent of student body and director of social life ;
Jas. A. Jones, ’31, treasurer of student. body ;
T. Archie Freeman, ’22, president of senior
class; A. B. McClure, ’31, president of middle

class, and Fred V, Poag, ’30, secretary of middle
class,

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

(Continued from page 4)
Mrs. Grey is a graduate of. Mount Holyoke
College, and has been doing chemical work in
New York. Davidson alumni in the wedding
were Gardner H. Green, ’29, and W. H. Mid-
dleton, ’29, both of New York.

Sa eee e

Smith-Reynolds
Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., of Charlotte, 1930
alumnus of Davidson, and Mrs. Anne Cannon
Reynolds, of Concord, were married at Blow-
ing Rock on May 4th. After leaving Davidson,
_ Mr. Smith was in the hardware business, and
'“more recently has been connected with the
Thies-Smith, a real estate firm. Mrs. Smith was
educated at Salem College and at Holton Arms
in Washington. They are at home at 2701 Briar-

cliff Place, Charlotte.

LETTERS TO BE AWARDED

(Continued from page 3)
Rogers, L.
Wilkes, and G W. Wingfield.

Numerals will’ be awarded to the following
men for service on_the Freshman track team:
‘W. W. Hofford, A...AcMcFadyen, C.'C. Har-
fis, D. M: Glasgow, G. L. Gullette, R: W. Dulin,

STUDENT
BODY
LEADERS

|SAM WILEY IS NEW SECRETARY

(Continued from page 1)

his sincerity, and of his real interest in men
about him; they know what a great respect he
commands from: those who chance to touch
upon his life, and of the devotion and zeal which
stamp him as a real man. Besides this, Wiley’s
native ability, together with a rather unusual
attractiveness, and a hearty good humor, en-
able him to draw men to him to be a genial
companion, and to exert an influence for good
on those around him.

Davidson regrets Carl Pritchett’s leaving. A
certain sparkling cheerfulness and a great force
will be missing because he is here no longer.
Davidson pays tribute to him now, and will
continue to do so to his memory when he is

JB CLARK JR

PAUL F, BROWN, VR C.W. PEARCE 6.0. GUERRANT away. Yet Davidson rejoices that Sam Wiley is

POS

to return next year in such a capacity and ex-
tends a genuine welcome, feeling the utmost
confidence in his ability to carry a noble work
to an even nobler height. So here is»to Carl
with all good wishes as he goes, and here is to
Sam with all good wishes as he enters in.

(Continued from col. 1, this page)

. F. Legare, L. C. West, Sam Bernardo, L.
. Quarterman, F. H. Morris, A. J. Potter,
. A. Gammon, W. L. MclIlwinen, L. P. Byerly,
=. F. McPhail, J. A. Wordsworth, George
Wingfield, Ben Rose, J. B. Lee, and W. J.
Morris. °

Those who will receive numerals for service
on the Freshman tennis team are, as follows:

> ma >

I

P. Vanstory, K. D. Weeks, M. B. :

i (Continued in. last column)

-

= rope ; amr wre 5 FOUrE McMILLAN Fi G# BROWN BS ae Brown, D. Elvery, T. Phifer, and Bob
oit.
p
P aaa

Certainly...
|. Zout of 10smokers inhale

knowingly...the other
3 inhale unknowingly

Oyouinhale? Seven out of ten smokers

know they do. The other three inhale
without realizing it. Every smoker breathes
in some part of the smoke he or she draws
out-of a cigarette.

Think, then, how important it is to be
certain that your cigarette smoke is pure
and clean—to be sure you don’t inhale
certain impurities!

Do you inhale? Lucky Strike has dared
to faise this much-avoided subject... .
because certain impurities concealed in
even the finest, mildest tobacco leaves are
removed by Luckies’ famous purifying
process. Luckies created that process. Only
Luckies have it!

Do you inhale? More than 20,000 physi-
cians, after Luckies had been furnished them
for tests, basing their opinions on their smok-
ing experience, stated that Luckies are less
irritating to the throat than other cigarettes.

“It's toasted”

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras, and fa-
mous Lucky Sivike news features, every Taesday, Thursday and Saturday ing over N. B.C. networks.

