THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

(aN
——— — a T=
Richmond and Washington Alumni Rhgkeaneit ALUMNI PERSONALS
Chapters Hold Annual Meetings Wharton-McKnight Rey. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05,"of Rich-|resentatives from the Sixth Congressional Mary-

Fifty-four Attended From 25 Classes
Extending From 1879 Through
1932. Class of 1931 Led
All Others

UNIQUENESS DISCUSSED

Thirty Alumni and Others Interested
Also Attended Meeting at Blue-
field, W. Va.

Davidson College alumni in Richmond, Va.,
and Washington, D. C., have held their semi-
annual dinner-meetings within the past ten days,
with 38 in attendance at Richmond, and 16 in|
Washington. Both gatherings were attended by |
Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, who discussed
current affairs on the Davidson campus, and at
Washington two moving picture films of the
campus were also shown.

Elsewhere on the alumni page will be found
the names of the alumni in attendance, and the
officers of the ensuing year who were chosen.

These two meetings represented a wide dis-
tribution of alumni, for 25 different classes
were represented by the 54 men, covering a
period that extended from 1879 through 1932.
More recent classes had a predominating num-
ber present, because of the ministerial candi-
dates in Richmond. Thirty-four of the 54 men
left Davidson since 1922, and the classes of
1931 led with 11 of their members present at
the two meetings.

At the Richmond meeting Mr. Milton told of
an address made by Prof. Archibald Currie,
in which he advanced three reasons why David-
son was unique, viz, because it had not become

OFFICERS ELECTED

Richmond Chapter

President, J. H. VanLandingham, ’06,
Petersburg, Va.

Vice-President, Rev. J.
D.D., 07, Petersburg, Va.

Secretary, Jas. A. Jones,
mond, Va,

E. Hemphill,

31,

Rich-

Washington Chapter

President, W. A. Elliott, ’09.
Vice-President, J. R. Minter, ’13.
Secretary, H. M. Morris, ’23.

co-educational, because it had remained strictly
an undergraduate institution, and because Da-
vidson had never been influenced in its policies
by the great benefactors of the college.

After elaborating upon these, Mr. Milton sup-
plemented Mr. Currie’s contentions with three
additional reasons why Davidson was unique,
maintaining that other contributing factors was
Davidson's position in the educational world, its
financial condition as compared to other insti-
tutions, both religious and secular, and because
of its unusual alumni body.

The Washington meeting was more of an in-
formal affair. Difficulty was experienced in op-
erating the projector for the moving pictures,
and during that time Mr. Milton talked infor-
mally to the alumni and answered queries that
were offered by the alumni. After the regularly
adjourned meeting a number of the alumni dis-
cussed affairs at Davidson for a while longer.

At Bluefield, W. Va.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson,
attended a meeting of alumni, parents of David-
son students, and prospective students at Blue-
field, W. Va., on Monday, March 7. Approxi-
mately 15 people met together at supper, and a
similar number joined the group afterwards
to hear Dr. Lingle. Davidson alumni in that
vicinity are small in number, and no effott was
made to perfect an organization. It was through
the efforts of Rev. S. W. Moore, D.D., 93, of
Bluefield, and Rev. Smiley Williams, '14, of
Welch, W. Va., that this meeting was arranged
to give the Davidson president an onportunity
of meeting with interested parties in that sec-
tion. ,

Those Who Attended

1879—Dr. J. Allison Hodges, '79, Richmond.

1882—J. E. Mason, Washington.

1885—Hon. W. F. Stevenson, Washington.

1888—Dr. W. J. Martin, Richmond.

1900—Rev. W. E. Hill, D.D., Richmond,
1902—Rev. D. W. Richardson, D.D., Rich-
mond.

1905—Rey. T. K. Currie, D.D., and Rey, W.
T. Thompson, D.D., both of Richmond; Hon,
J. Bayard Clark, Washington.

1906—J. H. VanLandingham, Petersburg, Va.

1907—Rev. J. E. Hemphill, D.D., Petersburg,
Virginia. é

1909—W. A. Elliott and R. S. Marshall, both
of Washington.

1910—F, S. Blue, Richmond.

1913—J. R! Minter, Washington.

1914—Rey. D. T. Caldwell, D.D., Potorsvurg,
Va.; Harold C. Smith, Rockville, Md.

1917—J. R. Morton, Jr., Washington.

1918—J. A. Thames, Washineton.

1919—J. H. Townsend, Richmond.

1922—T. Archie Freeman, Richmond.

1923—H. M. Morris, Washington. f

1926—C. L. Bragaw, Washineton. 4

1927—Rev. C. G. Davis, P. F. Jones and Rey
T. H. Hamilton, all of Richmond; J. A,
Washington.

1928—Tyree Dillard, Washington; C. F, Me-
Rae and Knox Poole, both of Richmond: Rey.
J. M. Murchison, Providence Forge, Va.

1929—A. N. Brown, D. F. Helm, J. A. Ricks,
R. F. Sloop and R. F, Whitley, all of Rich-
mond; W, E. Hill, Jr., Hopewell, Va.

1930—R. M. Christian, R. D. Croom, Jr., and
J. M. Smith, all of Richmond; W. W.,
rison, Jr., Washington.

1931—W. P. Boyle, L. F. Cowan, S. W. Du-
Bose, Jas. A. Jones, A. B. McClure, W. B. Mc-
Swain, M. W. Norfleet, Jr., W. G. Sugg, Jr.,
EK. F, Thompson and Ferguson Wood, all of
Richmond; Archie W. McLean, Washington.

1932—T. M. Lemly, Richmond; J. E. Ruff,
Washington.

Kine,

Har-

Alumni Marriages

Erwin-Godwin

“Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Godwin, of Charlotte,
announce the marriage of their daughter, Sara,
to Frank T,. Erwin, of Greensboro, on Satur-
day, March 26th.”

Mr. Erwin is in the 1928 class at Davidson.
After leaving here he was in business and is
now connected with the Standard Oil Company,
with the Greensboro branch. Mr. and Mrs, Er-
win will be at home in Greensboro after May 1.

Births

1914—To Dr. and Mrs. James W. Gibbon, of

_ Charlotte, a son, on March 29th.
1927—To Mr. and Mrs. Eustace F. Lingle, of
New York, a daughter, Jean, on April

4th.

Deem not life a thing of consequence. For
look at the yawning void of the future, and at
that other limitless space, the
Aurelius.

past.—Marcus

As long as war is regarded as wicked, it
will always have its fascinations. When it is
looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be pop-
ular.—Oscar Wilde.

“Dr. and Mrs. R. I... Wharton, of Cardenas,
Cuba, announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Elizabeth, to John P. McKnight, of Shelby

»j}and Havana, Cuba.”

Mr. McKnight graduated from Davidson in
1928, and immediately was employed on the
reportorial staff of the Charlotte News. He
hecame connected with the Charlotte branch of
the Associated Press a year later, and over a
year ago was sent to the Havana, Cuba, branch,
Within the past several months he was made
manager of the Havana office of the Associated

Press. Miss Wharton obtained her education
at Queens-Chicora College. .
Sherfesee- Withers

“Mr. and Mrs. Louis Sherfesee, of Greenville,
S. C,, announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Louise, to Frank Caldwell Withers, Jr.,
of Columbia, S. C.”

Mr. Withers is also a 1928 graduate, and was
president of his Senior class. “After graduation
he worked reporter for the Charleston
(S. C.) News and Courier, but for the last
two years has been connected with the Colum-
bia (S. C.) State. No date for the
wedding,

as a

was set

Keesler-Gilmour

“Mr. and Mrs. S. R. Keesler, of Greenwood,
Miss., announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Mary Nash, to Monroe Taylor Gilmour, of
Wilmington, the marriage to take place in early
summer.” ;

Mr. Gilmour was president of the 1929 grad-
uating class at Davidson, During 1929-1930 he
was a student in the Princeton Graduate School,
and spent part of last year at Union Theolog-
ical Seminary at Richmond, and in the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Medical School. He
is now attending Harvard Medical School. Miss
Keesler obtained her education at Sophie New-
combe, in New Orleans.

Taft-Mills

“Mr, and Mrs. H. R. P. Taft, of Charleston,
S. C, announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Elizabeth Burbridge, to Ladson Arthur
Mills, Jr., of Greenville, S. C., the date of the
marriage to he announced later.”

Following his graduation in 1930, Mr. Mills
was employed by the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey, and was stationed in Charlotte.
He was transferred to Charleston, where he
was located until the past week, when he was
promoted and sent to Washington, D. C. Miss

Taft obtained her education at Warrenton
School, Warrenton, Va.
Reynolds-Smith

“Mr. and Mrs. J. F-Cannon, of Concord, an-
nounce the engagement of their daughter, Anne
Cannon Reynolds, to Frank Brandon Smith,
Jr., of Charlotte, the wedding to be solemnized
at Blowing Rock some time jn April.”

Mr. Smith is a member of the 1930 class at
Davidson and since leaving here he has been
in the hardware business in Charlotte.

Calhun-Sisson

Information has been received at Davidson
of the announced engagement of Miss Ione Cal-
hun, of Grenada, Miss., to Charles Augustus
Sisson, of Winona, Miss., the marriage to take
place in early summer,

Mr. Sisson graduated from Davidson in the
class of 1931, and is now a first-year 1
dent at Harvard University.

aw stu-

The belief that man ean conquer his environ-
ment is the actual benefit Columbus conferred
on humanity.—Struthers Burt,

°

e

®

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

: Catalog and information on request.

°

mond, Va., has accepted an invitation to deliver
the: commencement address on May 17th at
Princeton Theological Seminary.

Dr. Thos. A. Lacy, ’20, who has been with
the State Hospital in Raleigh for several years,
is now with the Cooper Hospital at Camden,
New Jersey.

Two Union Theological
Who graduate in May have already accepted
calls. Robert F. Sloop, ’29, will go to the Alice-
ville, Ala., Presbyterian Church, which vacancy
was caused by the death of Rev. J. S. McFall,
'26, who was killed in a football game, and
DeWitt I. Helm, ’29, has accepted a call to a
group of three churches and will be stationed
at West Jefferson.

Seminary students

Friends will regret to learn of the death of LL.
A. McGeachey, of St. Pauls, brother of Rev.
D. P. McGeachey, D.D., '96, of Decatur, Ga.,
and Rey. D. M. McGeachey, ’17, Tryon; of the
death of Walter G. Phipps, of Greensboro,
father of Rev. James R. Phipps, '24, of Little-
ton, and brother of Rev. C. H. Phipps, 08, of
Waynesboro, Va., and Rev. J. Robert Phipps,
13, of Pollocksville; and of the death of Mrs.
Claud G. Allen, Sr., mother of Claud G. Allen,
Jr., '27, of "New Bern.

David TH. Howard, Jr., ’28, graduate student
ii chemistry at Cornell University, has been
awarded the Sage Fellowship and Graduate
Scholarship by that institution. Mr. Howard
was oné of 50 successful applicants who were
given fellowships and scholarships that total |
approximately $35,000. He was valedictorian of
his class, was at Davidson’ two years as in-
Structor in chemistry, and since then has been
studying at Cornell.

®

—_—_——

Alumni who have visited Davidson within the
past two weeks include Prof. H. S. Shaw, ’08,
Haverford, Pa.; E. L. Winn, 08, Asheville;
Karl Sherrill, °12, Statesville; Woodrow Mc-
Kay, ‘15, Lexington; Prof. R. ¢. Garth, ’19,
New York; Leonard W. Dick, Jr., ’23, Wood-
berry Forest, Va.; W. H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, Au-
gusta, Ga.; H. G. Goodykoontz, '27, Richmond,
Va.; C. J. Hansel, °30, Old Fort; Zeb V. Long,
Jr., “30, Lynchburg, Va., and R. F, Norton, ’32,
Chevy Chase, Md.

Walter H. Lynch, Ife,

'26, has accepted a po-
sition with Geo,

C. Baird & Company, certified
public accountants, and left Charlotte this week
to assume his new duties.

Alexander Sprunt, Jr.. 18, of Charleston, had
another article in the April issue of Holland's
magazine. It was entitled, “$25 Reward."

D, G. Wilson, ’26, has been made divisional
manager for the Equitable Life Assurance So-
ciety. His headquarters continue in Greens-
boro.

C. P. Greyer, ’30, is now located’ in Wash-
ington, D. C., and is connected with the Re-
construction Finance Corporation.

J. R. Wilkinson, °15, is connected with the
American Consulate at Havana, Cuba. He was
formerly stationed at Helsingford, Finland.

Harold C. Smith, ’14, of Rockville, Md., has
innouncged his candidacy for the Republican

nomination to the United States House of Rep-

land District. Until a few days ago he was un-
opposed.

W. M. Lemly, 32, is field traffic representa-
tive for the Byrd Airport at Richmond, Va.

After May 25th, Major F. L. Black, ’04, with
the quartermaster department of the U. S.
Army at the Presidio of San Francisco, Calif.,
will be transferred to Fort Stotsenburg, Pam-
pagna, Luzon, Philippine Islands.

B. R. Lowrance, ’31, recently accepted for the
U.S. Army Flying Corps, is stationed at Ran-
dolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, instead of
Langley Field, Va., as announced a short time
ago.

O. M. Brown, ’25, is connected with the
United States Customs Office at Durham.

W. G. Hodgin, ’27, is now working for the
Gate City Life Insurance Company, but con-
tinues his residence in Raleigh.

Dr. J. M. Cooke, ’26, who is now with the
University Hospital in Philadelphia, will be con-
nected with the Somorest Hospital, Somerville,
N. J., after July Ist.

Rev. W. M. Currie, '19, of Belmont, was last
week's speaker before the Belmont Rotary Club.

W. Ke. Wilkinson, ’28, will have the distinc-
tion of being the only Davidson alumnus in the
first graduating class of the Duke University
Medical. School.

Rey. John MecSween, D.D., ’08, president of
Presbyterian College, was the speaker before
the weekly meeting of the Spartanburg (S. C.)
Kiwanis Club last week.

J. J. Barnhardt, ‘12, vice-president of the
Cannon Mills Company, has been made presi-
dent of the Cabarrus County chapter of the
Isaac Walton League of America.

Rey. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Rich-
mond, Va., will address a meeting of Asheville
Presbytery on April 12th.

Hon, L. M. Blue, ’86, of Gibson, has an-
nounced that he will be a candidate for the
Democratic nomination for the North Carolina
Senate. Mr. Blue has already served several
terms in the upper house, and is not expected
to. be opposed.

Duke University has announced a series of ten
lectures on public health to be delivered to the
medical students during the next two months,
and included among the prominent lecturers is
Dr. A. M, McBryde, ’24,
with the Duke Hospital.

who is connected

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas

Tobacco
Sundries

Stetson “D” Store

Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s

Clothes For the College Man

