.

Ld

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

The Pavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

. FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

s 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the -Col-
iate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. ;

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

WARD _O. GUERRANT
M. MANSON

Editor-in-Chief

|

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARD Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. OM Managing Editor
es, WILLIAMS. Managin Biltor
DI CASALI. Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE....... Exch Editor
. W. WHITE. F Editor
Pepesra AMD Is eeciase ck usacuLasactodeescaluasesuaee Feature Editor
} are CORRCOR ne dshbcguccuousebacuanan pedans st Eaitor
‘ a % .--Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE A itor
R. L, McCALLIE A Editor
C. F. MYERS A Editor
B. B. SUGG.-....... A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. Pgh Rh be Assi Busi M
A. H. MANSON . Assi Busi Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR..-------- olic:
H. ee DANTE olicitor
. M. aaa oli
is A a licitor
W. »P.. SPRUNT. icitor
. R. TAYLOR
. A. C. WADSWORTH.
. E. WHI ir

Se President
7S, E ice- Presi
sed he hey ao Ss eM Pte
. W. ALDERMAN . L. McCL

R. H. ALDERMAN. Ww L. GiciL WINEN

G. E. BAILY ne E. F. McPHAIL

D. B. BAILEY \ W. C. NEILL

B. C. BARNES “\._-W._L NORTHE

. E. BOWERS “._C. E. NORVELL

. E, BOYD . L. POWELL

. H. COVINGTON S..2.. PRESTON

Ss. K. EATON B. MSROGERS

de Geet: «= A Wins

‘ ‘3 DACE

y C. HENRY Ss) B WEEKS

A HUNTER is RR. RD

k * AINE W._T. THOMPSON ™

T, F. WOOD i W. WHITE

W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

OCTOBER 19, 1932

: One grand business in life is not to see what
lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly
at hand.—Carlyle. :

D:
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The play, “You and I,” by Philip Barry, as presented

by the Little Theatre in Charlotte last week, was

‘most creditably done. To the lovers of this art we

suggest that they patronize these plays which will
be given here.

Little Theatre.

The candle light ‘service pr ted Pp rs Inst
Sunday by members of the Woman's College of the
University of North Carolina Y. W. C. A. was most
impressive A large crowd attended despite the steady
downpour.

—D

The Davidsonian wishes to take this opportunity
to_congratulate the newly-elected members of Phi
Beta Kappa and also Omicron Delta Kappa.

The Sophomore stars, Mackorell’ and Wingfield,
continued their splendid running in the V. M. I
game. :

7 ) en

We were glad that “Tubby” Hand made a touch-

down against V. M. I. It-is seldom that a lineman

with the exception of an end succeeds in breaking
into the scoring column.

D:

team conti

d

The David
V. M. I.

its good work against

aA eee
The Southern Conference race has narrowed down
to Auburn, Tennessee, V. P. I., and Kentucky. The
defeat of Alabama at the! hands of Tennessee and the
tie game between Vandy and Tulane eliminated these
three in all probability. Glancing over the schedules
of the respective teams it looks like Tennessee to us.
——_D
Tennessee has had splendid teams for several years
but has never succeeded in having a clear claim to

the title. If they can-get by that Kentucky jinx this |;

year they might come out on top.

D

We believe that one benefit of the present depres:

sion is that it has made the Davidson student~ body

as a whole a much more serious-minded group, which
in itself is a good thing.

! py),
We like the idea of having deputations from girls’

colleges, and_we—hope—that—they—will—continue- from
time to time.

d —D
Citadel played Florida a very good game this last
week-end, and they certainly must not be taken too

_lightly.

—_D.

We are glad to see—Home-Coming approaching.
That is always a gala event for all.
: =D
Wake Forest _must-have_an_excellent line this year.
So:far they have not been scored on. We hope that
‘later on this year our numerous backfield men will

have some effect én this line.

tye

CALIFORNIA’S POLITICS

As this Presidential race draws to a close,
it is intensified to-a.great extent as both the
Democratic and Republican parties are using
every instrument they can make use of to
‘strengthen their stand.

Needless to say the states this year will
probably be just as unorthodox in their voting
as many were in 1928. Whereas many. states
normally Democratic voted the Republican
ticket in that election, many in this election
will in all probability go Democratic which
usually go Republican. One of these states,
usually a stronghold of Republicanism, and the
home of the President, is California. It will
probably go Democratic, as it.did for Wood-
row Wilson when he was elected for the first
time. The way California went in that elec-
tion really turned the tide, and it may. have
great importance in this one also.

There are numerous reasons for the change
in attitude of this far western state. One, of
course, is the universal cry for a change in
administration. Many believe that this depres-
sion, which has lingered so long, will imme-
diately be lifted by a change. This is a debat-
able queston, but nevertheless, many firmly
believe that prosperity will be the immediate
result if Roosevelt is elected. Others want to
see a Democratic President, because the Dem-
ocratic platform states so much more clearly
and precisely its views on the Eighteenth
Amendment. Still another reason, and_one
which may be very decisive, is the recent state-
ment of Senator Hiram Johnson. He said a
few days ago that he could not, and would
not support Herbert’ Hoover in the. coming
election. Although Senator Johnson is by no
means universally popular in California, he
has a great.many followers, and he has a
marked influence. He is a Republican, but ac-
cording to his own statement, he is a progres-
sive one, and he feels that it is for the good
of the country that we have a change in ad-
ministration.

Another fact which bears up the argument

“that California does not favor Hoover is the

defeat of Senator Shortridge for re-election

For twelve years Shortridge -

to the*Renate.
has been inthe Senate, and hasbeen nothing
more than a>rutbber-stamp—for—most—ofthe
ultra conde sates. Republican Presidents in
the last few administrationse

Many will argue that™these signs are not
true_portents, but still _most.will agree that
unless there is a radical. change.in the view-
point of the people between now and election
day, California will fall in line with ‘the nu-
merous other states, which will vote the Dem-
ocratic ticket to put Franklin D. Roosevelt i
the White House next March fourth, *

CHAPEL SERVICES

One of the most difficult situations for our
students here on the campus at Davidson to
work out or have worked out for us is the
attitude of the students in chapel. It is diffi-
cult in that the chapel: services have two func-
tions. The first is primarily a religious func-
tion. Davidson being-a-college which adver-
tises itself as a Christian institution would
necessarily have to hold some kind of -a-daily
devotional or religious service. This is taken
care of by our daily chapel services, but we
also use part of that time to make announce-
ments to the student body. This, of course,
is purely separated from the religious aspect
and it is rather hard for some students to at-
tain any sort of an attitude proper-for a re-
ligious exercise. Practically all of us at times
have been guilty of reading letters, newspa-
pers, or studying for our next class during the
chapel hour. We should attempt to put all
our attention on the religious aspect first. The
attitude of most students. is most disconcert-
ing to the speaker who is trying to put over a
message, and it is also very discourteous. If
the students will put themselves in the place
of the speaker, and many of our students will
speak at chapel services before the year is out,
we believe that our chapel services will be
greatly improved, and as a result, we will gain
much more from the’ half an hour each morn-
ing than has been the case in the past.

Collegiate Ramblings

JE. Lake

University of South Carolina

The enrollment down at the University of South
Carolina has increased to 1,633 students, with the pos-
sibility of increasing to 1,800. -

United States Senator Huey P. Long “of Louisiana
has been invited: to attend the Carolina-L. S. U. game
on November 5th. This is South Carolina’s Home-
Coming day.
lately by his views._In the Democratic National Con-
vention,-the convention. had to vote for about an hour
on the question of whether he was to sit upstairs or
downstairs. He’sat downstairs. Quite a troublesome
gentleman, but an ardent Democrat. Perhaps he is
on theright side this time; well, we Democrats
hope so. : aa

University of North Carolina
The Illustrated Football Magazine this year ranked
Duke first in the state, 55th in the nation; University
of North Carolina, second in! the state, 68th in the
nation; State, third in the state, 125th in the nation.

Senator Long has caused quite -a_ stir.

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

In Spartanburg, S. C., a radio betrayed its owner
to the police, resulting in the confiscation of six gal-
lons of whiskey. The police, after searching the home
of Essie Wardlaw, were about to leave when the
radio struck ‘up the song, “How Dry I Am.” The
police, out of: curiosity, looked inthe radio cabinet
and found the contraband goods.

There will be no more hazing at Lincoln. Memorial
University. One night recently some upperciassmen
grabbed a young professor, and, thinking, he was a
Freshman, proceeded to apply the usuat-Hazing meth-
ods. The outcome of this error is that there is now
a rule against hazing. To commemorate the passing
of the old system, there is a newly dug grave on the
campus with an inscription on the headstone, “Here
lies the Spirit of L. M. U. Born Feb. 12, 1897; Died
Oct. 8, 1932.

A rather unique business is being carried on in
Dublin, Ireland. This is a rosary manufacturing com-
pany, which makes the beads, and sends them to all
parts of the world. In this factory are 170 working
girls who elect a council and control the business of
the company. Under the system of capital and labor
in this particular concern, the proprietor has no more
power in deciding the policy of the business than
any one working girl. The employees know all the
details of the business, and set their own wages. It
is said that the working conditions are all right, and
that the concern makes a profit.

To the great joy of the Scotch Canadians, and per-
haps to the sorrow of those who’ do not appreciate
bagpipe music, the Canadian import duty on bagpipes
has been lifted, provided the musical instruments are
from Scotland. The duty, however, has gone up on
bagpipes from other countries than Scotland. Now
the Scotch pipers in Canada can strut and blow their
bagpipes’ to their hearts’ content, feeling happy that
they no longer have to pay the 15 per cent import
duty on the Caledonian instruments.

The sandwichmen in our larger cities are a peculiar
and interesting group.. Many of them have been
reared in cultural surroundings and have “brilliant ~
minds. Some are university graduates, while others
have been high up in the professional world. But by
some sad twist of fate, or some bad influeffce, they
have lost their_positions and finally land in the\ gut-
ters, advertising various businesses by placards on
their backs, _A great many, .when they reach, this.
stage, take a turn for the better and attempt to climb
back out of the gutters into their original positions,
but few succeed. A great many have interesting ex-

T\periences which are hard and cruel, but still they

come and go; like ghosts of men.
2

Comparing.with the burning of Brazilian coffee to
raise the price, the destruction of about $11,800 worth
of cultivated pearlsxin Kobe, Japan, took place re-
cently when the Japanese cultivators of the pearls
built a bonfire of ‘a great many inferior jewels in
front of the Chamber of Commerce building. This
destruction had a two-fold Sac to get a great
many pearls off the market and is to raise the
price, and_to give some good publicityMo the pearl
growers.

Free wheeling is not confined to automobiles, Nor
in England a locomotive has been developed whic
uses that coasting device, with the result that the
machine uses only half the usual amount of fuel.
The total cost is only three cents per mile, and out
of the whole length of the locomotive’s journey, one-
half the distance is done in free wheeling. The new
vehicle is able to make a speed of sixty miles per

First place went to Southern California, second to
Tulane, and third to Tennessee.
Citadel

Here is a little scheme or proposition by which you
may prove that you love your girl:

Theorem—If you love a girl, she loves you.

Given—You love a girl.

To Prove—That she loves you.

Proof: .

1. All the world loves a lover. (Shakespeare).

2. Your girl is all the world to you (Evident).

3. Your girl loves a lover. (Substitute 2 in 1).

4. You are a lover. (Hypothesis).

Conclusion—Therefore your girl loves you.

Now try and make a girl believe it. You're being
it, you can, and if you can’t, remember many others
have failed” besides you.

Wake Forest
The North Carolina Press Association will have its
meeting at Wake Forest this year, on October 27-29,
Wake Forest now has an enrollment of 788 stu-
dents.

V. M. I.

Johnny Mackorell, flaming quarterback of our
squad, has his picture in The Cadet. It is a very good
likeness of this flashy Sophomore. Power to you,
Johnny. .

Queens-Chicora
We were very delighted to. have a few of the
Queens girls out to enjoy our game with W. & L.,
and they ‘can-rest assured that we enjoyed their com-
pany, and the game. They were high in their praise
of our work against- Washington and Lee.

—“yto dance?” asked Bill.

... N. B. Wallace trying to wake up Joe Wads-
worth Monday morning. Half of those who take
the paper subscribe to be waked up in time for the
first period» class. N. B. says the hardest of them
all to get up is Joe? As a last resort he socked Joe
on ‘the head, using the morning paper as a club. On
Tuesday, even this made no impression. Joe simply
rolled over.

. a Freshman ask Bill Mulliss, president of the
Pan-Hellenic Council, and newly-elected Phi Bete,
about the dance this week-end. “Do you know how
“Well, I know the holds, but
I don’t know the steps,” the Fresh replied.

... Buck Mills carrying a football everywhere he
went last week. He had one under his arm on the
way to the P. O. after supper Wednesday night.
Thursday morning he was seen in chapel with a foot-
ball (I guess it was the same one).

. a Senior find a box of cigars in Hartman
Eager’s room, smoke one and leave the others alone.
Who said there is no such thing as honesty!

... Kenneth Weeks and Gus Maynard coming up
from the student store just before bedtime. Kenneth
was telling Gus about a man he knew who married
a girl on his deathbed, so she could have his millions
when he was gone. He asked Gus if he thought he
could love a girl like that. Gus exclaimed, “That’s the
kind of a girl I could love. What's her ‘telephone
number?” e

... Mrs. N. T. Smith, our dormitory supervisor and

' good friend,-having a confab with some friends at
one of Charlotte’s swankiest restaurants one day last
week.

. a Fresh bumming to Charlotte for a date with
a telephone operator with a line that would catch
anybody. He claims that she is connected with the
best Charlotte families. Number pu-leeze!

. a goodly delegation from Davidson on-hand to
greet the Boswell Sisters Saturday afternoon as they
passed-through Charlotte on the train.

.. a Soph write down the things somebody called
his foommate. They were such expressions as: bom-
bastic mutt, windjammer nonetity, false alarm, ad in-
finitum. He has them for reference so he can use
them on him the next time they have a “Battle of
Words.” eR

Now you just try and keep from reading this col-
umn next week. I’m going to announce something
that will interest everybody. Well, goodbye and
take “keer” of yourself. ‘

; TIP POFF.

hour on a level road. It is run by electricity and is
used for short commuting runs.

The Von Papen government of Germany has now
assumed a more centralized government of Germany
by declaring the cabinet the real ruler of Germany,
and giving the statement that if another Reichstag

jaattempts. to meet, it will forced to break up by
the cabinet. This means tNat the control of Germany
is it the hands of a few men instead of the former
legislature. Von Papen, in a speech expressing his
plans, stated that he intended to institute a “One
Neat Plan” for the reorganization of Germany’s eco-
howmic condition. Von Papen will attempt to intto-
duce some refortis, and put them in a constitution
‘which niust be ratified by the Reichstag before the
cabinet willygive up its control.
“,

A Peruvian recently came to New York to visit. It
had been twenty-seven years since he had been to
New York, and although he had kept in contact
with the metropolitan lifethrough newspapers, maga-
zines, and the radio, he was.totally unprepared for
the fast pace in which the city lived. He was puzzled
by the stop lights and was afraidsof all the crowds
of swiftly moving automobiles. Finallyshe could stand
the pace no longer so he took passage on the next
ship to Peru, there to rest in peace in his qtiet home,
and observe modern city life from a distance>

Premier Herriot has been in London, conferring
with Ramsey~McDonald on the question of German
rearmament. He left Paris Wednesday to spend the
rest of the week at the British capital. It is hoped
that the two Prime Ministers will be able to formu-
late some plan for satisfying Germany’s desire for
arms.equality, and at the same time permitting
France to still be confident in its freedom of invasion
from Germany. There was a feeling of optimism at
the meeting of the French Cabinet held just before
Herriot’s departure for London. The plan had as a
feature not only the equality of arms, but the calling
of a convention for the discussion of complete dis-
armament. This is a very satisfying move, but wheth-
er it will have any effect upon the armaments of the
world is not known. At least, it shows France’s de-

* sire to disarm.

Many, when considering Germany’s desire for arms,
have thought her very foolish for wanting to place
‘upon her already overburdened taxpayers the added’
expense of an army. The other side of the question
is seen when it-is-remembered that Germany, sur-
rounded by armed countries, is helpless against in-
vasion. Truly, the best solution would be, not the
arming of Germany, but the disarming of the neigh-
bors.

