NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” q

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2,00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

..--Editor-in-Chief
Esse SEE LA Kd be based dudesanaves Business Manager

~~
|
Q
°

EDITORIAL STAFF
. GUERRANT.
. McBRYDE.......--..
» McCALLIE.
. MYERS.

.--Managing Editor
wbdsvbbsdeasdace. Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Managing Editor
. SUGG. Athletic’ Editor
. STEPHENSON.........--------------------Feature Editor
. FRANKLIN Feature Fditor

._ ERVIN. ..-Review Editor
fs cGA Wivcatascacccs Exchange Editor
. DWELLE, JR - A iate Editor

W PIGH AG sere cubes coc eeu cece sc nsec acess, Associate Editor

. MATTHEWS...........0...--2--- 2000-8. Associate Editor

|] <SP"mReosoroM
mars cansarso

BUSINESS STAFF
tay Givauusaceasseasere Assistant Business Manager

A. M.
A. L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
i W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
R. MORROW. -Subscription anager
Ww. T. Ore licitor
‘f F. WAM E dbnunsacapesatobaucbuccacabuuans. licitor
RB. WOOTT licitor
Aji «Hi MANSON Go occnsccccesuscccccdccucnecesencecs! Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
A, OH WHIT BH BA Dive svat iusietledsvaucpbaccassessoses President
Ye By LAK Bisicesces ....Vice-President
(ER OM IG LS Sebel va cashbdes coauucesosuaue Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE
G. FE. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE
if E. BOYD KE. L, POWELL
. P. PRESTON R, PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A, F, SCHENC
0. CASALI ‘ W. M. THOMPSON
WwW V. T. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, ‘a
JACK WILLIAM

MARCH 23, 1932

W. T.
J. A. HUNTER

I know of no two governments with absolute
mutual confidence, and that is one of the gravest
calamities weighing upon the nations of the
world.—Foreign Minister Estrada of Mexico.

—
The student body extends its sympathy to
Cecil Neill and John Siewers in the great losses
they have suffered in the deaths of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS

The student body learned with a great deal of re-
gret of the injury of Courtney MacConnell Sunda
morning.

|p) eS

Junior Speaking was one of the most successful
parties of the year. The Junior class under Jerome
Clark is due the congratulations of the student body.

—D.

There will be no issue of the Davidsonian next

week. The next edition will appear on April 6.
D

The track team opens the season this afternoon
against the University of Florida. The prospects seem
to be the best in several years.

|b)

An editorial in this issue of the paper describes to
some extent the ideal teacher. It is taken from the
bulletin of the American Association of University
Professors.

D:

Congratulations to the student body, leaders who
have just been selected. They have a great task be-
fore them.

ee nae
A, COMMENCEMENT

For the next several weeks the students of the
college will be busy voting almost every morning,
selecting the men who are to lead the student body
in the coming scholastic year. To every student
this voting should be.a great responsibility ; each
vote should be cast with only one purpose in view
—that of selecting the best possible man for the
position. '

To those men who are chosen for the various
positions on the campus these elections bring hon-
or, a just reward for work done well. They de-
serve this honor which comes to them, and this
editorial does not advocate the removing of any of
the honor attached to the positions of authority on
the campus. It merely wishes to add to the honor
something more vital. In receiving this vote of
confidence from the student body the men selected
are receiving a responsibility, a trust which it is
to be their duty to uphold.

‘In this sense then these chosen men are at the
beginning of their career of service to the school;
their election marks a commencement rather than
an ending. They are the ones who must carry on,
must keep the school, its ideals, and its spirit
alive.

Thus we see that although their election is an
honor to them it also offers them a greater oppor-
tunity to\bring more glory to the school and in
this way to themselves. By being persistent in
their efforts and true to their purpose they will

ultimately justify the confidence placed in them

by the student body.

GOLD AT THE RAINBOW’S END

“There are professors and professors. Some
| meet their classes every..week, dole out their work
| @s so much’ merchandise to be sold over the
counter, spring the customary number of quizzes,
| average up a list of-grades, and let it go at that.
| Everything is as cold and impersonal as an auto-

“mat. The process is strangely like the regular

JS

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Converse %

There may not be any May Day at Converse this year
due to a lack of interest shown by the girls down there
toward the affair. There have been four tryouts but only
a very few girls were there. The Parley Voo laments this
fact and tries to encourage the girls to try out. Boys,
encourage your girls at Converse to go out for the May
Day Queen and Court.

The paper this week was put out by the Freshman
class and all the articles and editorials were written in
small letters.

Wake Forest

Wake Forest announces as their commencement speak-
ers, Dr. Walter E. Dodd, University of Chicago his-
torian, will be the baccalaureate speaker on June 2. Dr.
Luther Little, pastor of the Fifst Baptist Church of Char-
lotte, will preach the commencement sermon on May 29.
Judge Fred Helms, of Charlotte, will make the feature
address at the alumni banquet on June 1.

The students of Wake Forest pledged themselves to
support the honor system.

Tennessee

More news about our new hackfield coach, Gene Mc-
Ever, The Orange and White tells us the following about
his welfare:

“The ‘Boot’ is in town. Gene McEver arrived in town
yesterday fresh from the wilds of Davidson College,
where he has been doing a bit of foothall coaching and
what not. Mack is in town for the purpose of trying out
his Smokie contract. He is a third baseman by prefer-
ence and practice and he should add color and punch to
the Smokie attack.” We thought it was pretty calm up
here.

There are at present 175 cases of the “flu” in the uni-
versity and the total of patients may amount to about 300.

Washington and Lee

More politics. The editor of the Political Parade tells
us that New Hampshire and Minnesota have turned to-
ward Roosevelt and joined his camp for the conyention.
Our dear old state of Georgia will hold their election
pretty soon, March 23, and he says it is almost certain
to fall in line. It seems that Newton D. Baker does not
want to be a candidate for the presidency. He refused
to allow his name to be entered in the primaries of Ohio,
North Carolina, and Kentucky, states in which he was
almost certain to carry the majority.

Emory
Emory’s annual Little Commencement will not be held
this year on account of the present financial conditions.
This and a few minor conditions were the reasons that
the Committee on Student Organizations and Relations
at Emory forbid the carrying on of this function this
year. This year, we believe, that it was to be March

24-26 during our spring holidays.

persistent appearance of the cuckoo when the
hands of the clock mark the hour. The bird ap-
pears on time, pipes its piece and pops back out
of sight again.

“Then there are other men who likewise meet
their classes regularly. But for them each session
is an adventure. Each class is another experience
with the young men, an hour not to be endured
but to be lived. Here for them is the high em-
prise to work with growing minds, to open up the
way, to fire the imaginataion and kindle the will,
to initiate men into the social fields of study with-
out destroying the broad’ sweep of the horizons
ahead. -Here the human element must never be
lost. Here the personal inspiration of an en-
thused leader must never be absent. Consequently
there forms a warm bond between the student and
the teacher. The one thrills to the quest, the
other leads. He responds to the friendly beckon-
ing onward. He warms to the glowing person-
ality as the sun. He develops under it and finds
no small part of its influence woven into his life.
Such leaders build themselves into their students’
lives. Such professors are powerful factors in
college life.”’—Bulletin of the American Associa-
tion of University Professors.

For the first time in the history of Wellesley College
dramatic productions men’s parts were taken by men
when members of the Harvard Dramatic Club took part
in the Wellesley play, “The Man of Destiny.”

Dr. Nicolas Metalnikov of the Pasteur Institute at
Paris has successfully tested a new type of water filter
which has been found to confer on the filtered water thc
power to destroy living bacteria. The filter was invented
by Georges Lakhovsky.

Excavators repairing an old sewer recently discovered,
only a few yards underground, the wall which David
built around the ancient capital of his Israelite kingdom
when he captured Jerusalem from the Jebusites 3,000
years ago. ;

Eighteen graves containing the richly ornamented
bodies of a people living nearly 5,000 years ago has just
been discovered at Ur of the Chaldees by the joint ex-
pedition of the University of Pennsylvania Museum and
the British Museum,

Ferdinand Buisson, one of the founders of the Third
French Republic’s free public schools and known_ in
France as “the world’s most persistent pacifist,” died
recently at the age of 91. :

“ .. .Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

IN LOVE’S DOMAIN
Prelude:

When lights are lowered in the hall, if we
Into the Future’s hidden face could see
And know that but a little span remains,
How tender would the good-night kisses be!
—(H. E. Harman.)

(A note comes from Miss Louise N., of Peace Insti-
tute, requesting a column on “CO-EDS”! But what do
we know about co-eds, when the ratio of them.at David-
son is about 6 to 600 boys? We might try to give a dis-
sertation on the closely related subject of love. But again
we must pause in semi ignorance. One’s knowledge of
love depends upon the way one grasps the subject. As
for co-eds, we will reluctantly run a little scrap of a
story that had already started for the waste basket, only
to be stopped because of the lack of material, the lateness
of the hour at which this column was written, and the
usual empty-mindedness of the writer.

“PETTY CO-ED”
(Theme Bos oe ees eee e Were “Love cankers all’)

Alpha Chapter
Oscar Later was a disillusioned Pre-Med. Student. He
had had lots of “affairs,” but still he was not understood.
College was beginning to pall, -but he gradually came to
be a pall bearer. A loving disposition was his, but a
mysterious nature caused hjs actions to be misinterpreted.
He longed to meet someone who would understand him.

The Next Chapter
Rose Bushe was just as pretty as she could be. (Most
girls are, judging by their praiseworthy efforts at make-
up.) Dark eyes and a retreating nature hid a most af-
fectionate inclination, and a pent up longing in this fair
co-ed’s heart for someone who could understand her
ways.
The Last Chapter
They met.

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT
West Virginia
Thirstday, 1932

Dear Dorothy Hix:

I live way up here in West Virginia, where men are
men, and the women are glad of it. I am deeply in love
with one of your upperclassmen at Davidson and until
recently I believed that he entertained the same feeling

for me. About a month after I wrote him last he sent’

me some very pointed pamphlets, on “The Art of Writing
Love Letters,”

Please tell me: does this mean that his affections have
begun to wane?

He was only a poor, ignorant country boy (from West
Virginia), and I would die if one of these city chorus
girls got him.

Hopelessly,
Anne Howe.
Dear Anne Howe:

You poor dear. I know how you must suffer. But I
assure you that you should not fear. Not one of these gold
digging chorus girls would trifle with the affections of
your big Davidson brute after one date. Because imagine
them going to a ten-cent show, maybe having a dope

* after, and a prospect of a pound box of candy Christmas.

Anne, money is not everything, but it can buy pretty
nearly everything—and the affections of a chorus girl
won't be found in the Bargain Basement.

So your little Oswald doesn’t like the way you write!
Well, maybe he’s right. But maybe not. You should
change your policy toward him.

Tell him that he may mean the world to his mother,
but that he’s just a grain of sand to you.

Maybe he has heard the old saying, “Do right and fear
no man; do not write, and fear no woman.”

Maybe you should try to make him jealous. Write him
something like this:
“T could have loved thee, dear,
so much;
Loved I not Robert Moore.” =

« \ z
But: whatever you do, remember tet you are dealing
with a delicate subject. ’Tis love that kes the world
go ’round (with that worried expression). If love has
an alphabet—and why not ?—it probably consists in avow-
als and consents. When a woman feallyntoves a man, he

can make her do anything she wants to (iS

Love is the feeling that makes a woman make a man
make a fool of himself.

A critic says that modern fiction runs too much to
love. Yes and modern love runs too much to fiction.

SAYINGS OF SAGACIOUS SAM THE
! SHORT STOP:

“A prominent American doctor says that in fifty years
kissing will be a thing of the past. As if we would care—
then,”

Os

DES ENTREFILETS

April 5th promises to be a red-letter day in the his-
tory of Finland, for on this day the nation will dis-
card prohibition and freely enjoy liquor. The state-
controlled liquor distributing company, in order not
to disappoint the public, has placed large orders with
Dutch, French, Italian, and other concerns for prompt
delivery of their products. Esthonia, which has been
the source of Finland’s illicit alcoholic beverages for
the past twelve years, has received an order for
650,000 bottles. This has been done because of the
shortage of distilling apparatus and in spite of large
quantities of smuggled alcohol that now fill the gov-
ernment warehouses. Scotland received an order for
75,000 bottles of whiskey and France an order for
150,000 bottles of brandy.

The Parliament on January 30: passed a bill repealing
prohibition following a referendum in Finland in which
the wets polled over 70 per cent of the nation’s vote. The
new plan is based upon the principle of government-con-
trolled sources of liquor without private profit. A cor-
poration has been -set up for the importation, manufac-
ture, and sale of liquor in which the government holds a
controlling interest.

A beer pipe line has been discovered in the sewer
system of Lancaster, Pa. An employee of the city
found the pipe line and severed it with a hatchet.
They were unable to discover its source, but the line
was found to exist in the city’s new three and a half
dollar sewer system. The line had proved to be a
disappointment to the bootleggers because, instead
of a cold beverage, it turned out hot beer, due to the
discharge of steam into the sewer by industrial plants.

It has been often stated that justice moves slowly in

the United States, and England is usually pointed out as

a country where criminals receive their deserts speedily.
But this is not always the case. Take Iowa for example:

~ On Tuesday four men robbed the City National Bank

of Clinton of $106,000 and on Wednesday they started
life sentences in the State Reformatory for their crime.
Eight hours after the robbery they had been captured and
the loot recovered. The men pleaded guilty and were im-
mediately sentenced. This may not be a record, but it is
hitting pretty close to one.

When the Governor of Texas and the Governor of
Chihuahua met recently at the International Bridge
the following conversation took place:

“Well, it’s not a long time between drinks now,”
said Governor Sterling.

“No,” replied Governor - Fierro,
Jaurez.” :

The Texas Governor, however, refused the invita-
tion to come over and have a glass of beer.

“I’m a teetotaler,” hé explained.

“not here in

Not satisfied with just a new government in Man-
churia they are also changing the name of the capital.
The name has been changed from Changchun to
Hsinching, meaning “new capital.’ A planning and con-
struction commission has been appointed to take charge
of the task of building. a new presidential palace and gov-
ernment office buildings. The new government, headed
by Henry Pu Yi, has decided to appoint several foreign-
ers to official positions regardless of race, and it is un-
derstood that these will be mostly Japanese and “White”
Russians;~ although Americans and Europeans will be
eligible also.

The government is being kept busy these days issuing
new stamps. On April 22 the Postoffice Department is
bringing out a 2-cent issue to commemorate the sixtieth
anniversary of the foundation of Arbor Day.

Arbor Day was first observed in Nebraska City, Neb.,
and was instituted by J. Sterling Morton, who was a
resident of that city.

The stamp will be of the same size as the ordinary
two-cent stamp, and on each side there will be two trees,
the intertwining branches of which form an arbor. In
the center will be a boy and girl planting a tree.

An American woman, Countess Folke Bernadotte,
was instrumental in bringing about the reconciliation of
King Gustaf of Sweden with Prince Lennart and his
commoner bride. At first the king would go no farther
than to send congratulations but a few days later the
Countess and King Gustaf went shopping in Nice. The
king bought a magnificent dinner set of gold, with the
royal coat-of-arms engraved on it, as a wedding gift for
the prince and his bride.

Dr. H. T. Hunter, president of Collowhee State Nor-
mal College, stated a few days ago that government bleed-
ing was, in a large part, responsible for the inability of
the state of North Carolina to meet its educational ex-
penses. The trouble, stated the educator, “is that the
United States Government is bleeding the state of ap-
proximately three hundred million dollars in internal rev-
enue annually.” :

“That is almost exactly 10 per cent of the state’s val-
ue,” he continued. “Up goes the tobacco tax and we shout,

‘See how rich we are. Only New York pays more to the

Federal Government.’

“Then what happens? The Federal Government gets
four times as much as do the farmers. That’s why we
are poor.”

SECOND SAYING OF SAGACIOUS SAM THE
SHORT STOP:
“All’s fair in love and fraternity houses.”

IN CONCLUSION, WE PAUSE TO DEDICATE
THIS COLUMN TO-THE: PEDESTRIAN WHO
' “BID NOT CHOOSE TO RUN”
