BLAT
STATE

Che Dabidsontan | ==

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

°

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 2, 1932

No. 8

PRESENT THREE PLAYS TONIGHT

‘Three Dramas Are “Moonshine,”
“Ghost of Jerry Bundler,” and
“A Game of Chess”

imac 7
YEAR’S FIRST PRODUCTIONS

Johnny Marvin and His Orchestra
Will Play at Entertainment

Tonight at 8:15 the curtain in Chambers
Auditorium rises on the year’s first appear-
ance of the Red and Black Masquers. The
dramatic club. is presenting three one-act
plays of a wide variety.

The first play is “Moonshine,” by Arthur
Hopkins. The scene is\laid in the mountains
of North Carolina, and the principal charac-
ters are a moonshiner and a-revenue officer.
Dave McLain plays Luke, the\moonshiner,
and the part of the clever officer is taken
by Nicholas Moss. The play was directed
by Nicholas Moss, and the stage mapage-
ment is by Gordon Wood and Dave Herring.

The second part features the “Ghost of
Jerry Bungler,” a play with an all-Freshman
cast, Tryouts were made among the Fresh-
men for this production and a_ splendid
group of actors was assembled. The direc-
tion is by Jack Williams and the stage man-
agement is by Lyman Clardy, assisted by
Don Stewart. The locale of the play is a
county tavern in England. Those taking
parts are A. M. Faison, P. Y. Harlan, J. L.
Dees, R. W. Johnston, W. M. Taylor, R. S.
Riley, and R. B, Lindsay.

The third and last drama is “A Game of
Chess,” by Goodman. It is a story of Rus-
sia and deals with the plot of a revolution-
ist to assassinate thé’ ruler. The royalist is
portrayed by Wills Hollingsworth while the
character of the assassin is acted by Grainger
Williams. Henry Hodgin is cast as a foot-
man, and the remaining character will be

(Continued on page 6)

Eumenean Society Gives
Initiation Entertainment

Talks Made by Four New Members of
Literary Organization

An interesting program of four talks was
presented at the weekly meeting of the Eu-
menean Literary Society. Those taking part
on the program were all new members who
were rendering their initial speeches before
the house. Luther Shirey spoke on the sub-
ject of Law; W. A. Benfield discussed the
4-H Club; A. T. Banks spoke in favor of
co-education, and John Douglas chose to
speak on the Democrats and why they should
be placed in power.

Shirey, in his talk, gave a brief history
of law. He showed the great influence of
law on every nation and individual, and how
law had been handed down to the present
age, each age leaving an improved code for
the next. He pointed out the absolute neces
sity of our conduct being governed by law
and explained that the field is open to the
best minds of modern youth.

Benfield’s talk was very informative. He
gave an interesting descriptiofe of the 4-H
Club, bringing out many little-known facts
about the functions of the club, and point-
ing out the good that the club does among
farm boys and girls in enabling them to work
at some definite project and to compete for
trips to various parts of the country,

Banks rendered a speech on co-education
in a rather humorous vein. He described
the bleak, dreary classrooms. without the

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Fulton

Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of Nashville,
Tenn., prominent leader of the South-
ern Presbyterian Church, will be the
speaker at vesper services Sunday
night.. Dr. Fulton was Executive Sec-
retary of Foreign Missions of the
gveatest Mission Congress ever held.
This gathering was conducted two
years ago in Chattahooga and was at-
tended by delegates from all over ‘the
world. He has visited Davidson on sev-
eral vious occasions and is very
popular as a speaker on the campus.

RED AND BLACK MASQUERS WILL |

Mr. Glasgow Speaks
on Purposes in Life

Mr. Tom Glasgow, well-known business |
man of Charlotte, gave an extremely inter- |
esting talk at the Y. M. C. A. vespers sery-
ices Sunday night. He spoke on the sub-
ject, “Life With a Purpose.” Charlie Myers}
led the service, and some greatly-enjoyed |
music was given by threé young ladies from |
Charlotte, Miss Marion Bartholomew with
the flute; Miss Virginia Rowland with the
‘cello, and Miss Ida Boykin at the piano. |
Grainger Williams-and-Francis Scott led in|

|

prayer.

Mr. Glasgow read for his scripture the
first sixteen verses of the first chapter of
Daniel, emphasizing the ‘eighth verse: “But
Daniel purposed in his heart that he would
not defile himself ....” He then told the
story of Daniel, how he was born as a|
prince, taken captive by Nebuchadnezzer, |
and how he became a slave in a strange!
land. Chosen by the king to stay in the

court, he refused to defile himself with the |,

dainties of the court, and persuaded the |
prince of the eunuchs to provide them with |
the plain wholesome food that he and his |
companions had been used to in Judah. Be-|

cause of his adherence to the fundamental |

(Continued_on page 6)

Dr. Lingle to Speak
Over Radio Tonight

Tonight at 8:45 o’clock Dr. W. L. Lingle,
president of the college, accompanied by
eight members of the Glee Club, will give
a thirty-minute program over the radio from
WBT in: Charlotte. Dr: Lingle will make |
a short talk on “The History and Work of |
Davidson College,” and the double quartet, |
consisting of Hubert Morrris, Ed Garrett, |
LrT. Newland, Warner Wells, Carlton Chap- |
man, Buddy Robinson, Woody Calligan, and
Leland McKeithan will nuim-
bers.

sing several

Tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock the pres-
ident goes to a meeting in Thyatira Church,
between Mooresville and Salisbury, where
he will deliver a speech on “The Religious
Life of George Washington.” The meeting
is under thesauspices of the Daughters of
the American Revolution, celebrating the
Washington Bi-Centennial. Several other
speeches will be made and a Washington
tree will be planted to commemorate the
occasion, The church in which the meeting
is to be held is one of the most historic in
this part of the country, having been found-
ed in 1753. A good many Revolutionary he-
roes are buried there and a former pastor,
Rev. Samuel Eusebius McCorkle, was’ one
of the founders of the University of North
Carolina in 1793,- Dr. Lingle, being a son of
the historic church, has been asked.to make
one of the speeches.

Brown Will Enter
Contest « at Athens

Two important coming events hold the in-
terest of Davidson College speakers. The
first of these is a political oratorical Contest
to be held at Athens, Ga., sponsored by the
University -of Georgia, on November 7.
“Skip” Brown will represent Davidson. Nine
of the foremost schools of the Sctith are to
have delegates there, each school having one
representative. Each representative is to be
prepared td’ make a ten-minute speech on}!
Hoover, Roosevelt, or Thomas, and he will
not know until he gets to the stage on which
man he will have to speak. A silver loving
cup will be presented to the winner. Gover-
nor-Elect Talmadge will preside at the con-
test. There will be distinguished judges who
are not alumni of any of the competing
schools. Davidson’s participant is being
sponsored by the Forensic Council.

The other oratorical contest is to be held
in Raleigh some time in January.’ This con-
test is sponsored by the American Legion.
The general topic will be some phase con-
cerning higher education in North Carolina.
A preliminary contest will be held here with-
in the next few weeks to determine who will
represent Davidson.

Annual Photographer

The photographer from the Woot-
ten-Moulton studios of Chapel Hill,
N. C., arrived here Tuesday morning
to complete the photographs to be
taken for the Quips and Cranks of
1932-33. He will remain at the college
until the end of this week.

The pictures which are being taken
at. present are for individual photos
which some members of the student
body were unable to have taken during
the past two visits. Also the group
pictures of the various honorary and
social fraternities, as well as of all the
athletic teams, are being completed.

Any resittings that may be desired
are also being made at this time and
an urgent appeal is made to those con-
cerned to be sure to have these made
as soon as possible.

Rev. D. H. Chalmers Will
Conduct Annual Fall “Y”

Services, November 13-15

Davidson Students Will Be Given an
Opportunity to Interview Rev.
Chalmers Personally

FORMER “Y” SECRETARY

Speaker Is From First Presbyterian
Church of Charlottesville, Va.

On Sunday, November 13, a series of re-
ligious services sponsored by the Y. M. C.
A. will be opened in Chambers Auditorium.
The “Y” has been fortunate in securing as
its speaker during these services Rey. Dwight
Chalmers, of the First Presbyterian Church
in Charlottesville, Va. , Rev. Chalmers
preached in Greensboro for atime before
going to Charlottesville, where he is ex-
ceedingly popular with all the University of
Virginia students. He is a graduate of Da-
vidson and while here was entered into the
campus activities to a large degree, in addi-
tion to making an enviable record in his
studies. H¢@ was the captain of the~basket-
ball team, ands.was a member of the old
Bachelors’ Club, He was prominent in Y. M.
C. A. activities, being president of the “Y”
while he was here and secretary of the
“VY” after his graduation. Rev. Chalmers is
distinguished as a speaker, and the student
body should enjoy his talks a great deal.

The fall services will last for three days.
In the morning Rey. Chalmers will speak
at chapel exercises, and in the ¢vening he
will address the students in Chambers Audi-
torium. Meanwhile, during the day, Rev.
Chalmers will interview the students who
wish to talk to him. This will -be an excel-
lent opportunity to those here who may have*
problems to present to the speaker. On the
days in which Rev. Chalmers is to speak,
the periods will be shortened to fit in with
the time which may be taken by his talks.

In the past, these programs have been
of great value and of great interest to the
students who attended them. The “Y” ex-
pects the coming program to prove oné of
the best. The organization invites every stu-
dent who is. able, to attend, and promises
that it will be worth their while.

In addition to the fall services, another se-
ries of services will be held next spring. The
speaker for these services has not yet been
announced.

Informal Smoker is

Held by Senior Class

The Senior class held an informal smoker
last Monday night, October 31, at 9 o'clock
in the reception hall of the Chambers Build-
ing in order to discuss some important mat-
ters regarding the welfare of the ‘class.

However, this meeting was not called on
an entirely business basis and afforded an-
other social ‘and informal gathering for the
members who are even now contemplating
the “breaking up” next June. Cigarettes and
light refreshments were furnished.

Allen Mebane, president of the class, re-
ported that he had no information to print
regarding the nature of the business dis-
cussed, but assured the reporter that the
meeting, although brief, was one of great
importance to the class of '33, and marked
a vital step in the history of the class.

WILDCATS WILL MEET WOLFPACK
AT CHARLOTTE IN BIG FIVE GAME

Judge Cooper Talks
on “Trial of Christ””

The lecture of Judge C. Vernon Cooper,
of Kinston, N. C., on “The Legal Aspects
of the Trial of Jesus,’ was well received by
a large audience which .attended last Mon-
day night in spite of the heavy rain, Pro-
fessor Currie introduced the speaker.

“It would be unfair to the Jews,” said
Judge Cooper, “to assume that they looked
upon Christ as the Son of God.” He de-
clared that the common notion that Jesus
was “just about lynched” is also incorrect.
Two of the most perfect judicial systems
the world has ever known failed to give
justice in this case because of the Jewish
judges’ hate for Jesus. They had been afraid
of Him since His triumphal entry into Jeru-
salem. And, because Pilate was afraid> of
the Jewish mob and dared not risk another
insurrection, he gave Him to the mob.
speaker recommended as the correct judg-
ment that of the centurion who watched

the manner of Christ's death and his atti-
|

tude toward His persecutors, and said, “TRuly
this was the Son of God.” a

Instead of being cruel and inhuman, the
sanhedrin was one of the most merciful of
courts ever devised. More than one death
in unusual, Vol-
untary confession was not admitted as evi-
dence,

sentence seven years was
The twenty-three judges were sup-
posed to search for defense of the accused:

(Continued on page 6)

New Ruling is Made

Regarding | Uniforms

At a recent meeting of the Court of Con-
trof, a new ruling was installed regarding
the wearing of the R. O. T, C. military uni-
forms. The R. O. T. C. department re-
quests that no part of the uniform—be worn
with civilian clothes and that no
clothes be worn with the uniform. In co-
operation with the R, O. T. C, department,
the Court of Control made a rule forbidding
any Freshman to wear the R.1O..T. C. cap
as a substitute for the red cap. In other
words, any Freshman having on an R. O. T.
C. cap with civilian clothes will suffer in-
dictment just as if he had worn no cap at
all. The Court further urged all upper-
classmen to observe the ruling of the R. O.
lr. C. department.

civilian

has continued
body.

as an active and influential
It is the duty of this body to guide
the Freshmen in their relations to the upper-
classmen, It ‘is the funétion of this
body to prescribe the rules and regulations
by which the Freshmen shall be governed.
The Court is appointed annually by the Stu-
dent Council and_is composed of a judge and
seven members, representing the three up-
per classes. Bill Flinn is the judge of the

Court of Control for this school year.

also

Selwyn Performers
Present Show Here

On Saturday night, October 29, in Cham-
bers Auditorium, an appreciative crowd saw
the unique —performance—of the magician
Selwyn.

Preceding the performance;-an organ pre-
lude of popular numbers was rendered by
Bill McIlwinen. Selwyn then made his ap-
pearance, and executed a number of inter-
esting tricks, among which were—“The Dis-
appearing Wand,” “The Chinaman’s Fan,”
“The Mysterious Candy,” “The Disappearing
Princess,” and “The Joining Rope.”

After a number of slight-of-hand acts had
been performed, the magician gave some
excellent representations of farmyard ani-
mals. He then delighted the audience by
playing the old favorite, “Annie Laurie,” on
the hand-saw.

Mr. Selwyn, who has been an artist in the
line-of magic for the past six years, opened
the season at Asheville, N. C. Since that
time he has presented entertainments in Sal-
isbury, N. C., Concord, N. C., Lexington, S.
C., and High Point, N. C. His program was
sponsored by the Junior class.

The}

Contest to Take Place in Central High
Stadium Saturday Afternoon
at 2:30 o’Clock

CLOSE BATTLE EXPECTED

Held Under the Auspices of the Char-
lotte Junior League

Under the auspices of the Junior League
of Charlotte, the Davidson Wildcats will
meet the’ ‘Wolfpack of N. C. State in a
game that will have a decided bearing on
the “Big Five” standings. The game will be
played in the Central High Stadium on Sat-
urday at 2:30 p.m.

Both: teams have impressive records to
date, Judging from these records, the ’Pack
appears the superior team by virtue of its
outstanding victories. Nevertheless, David-
son's record is good and the Wildcats will
rated almost with the team
from Raleigh.

State opened the season with a warm-up
fray, and walked over Appalachian with an
They then took a
19 to 0 victory from the strong University
Richmond ‘aggregation.’ .Clemson fell
‘next, 13 to 0. In their first “ tig Five” game
ithe Wolfpack played Wake Forest's Demén
| On the fol-
}lowing Saturday. in spite of the scintillating
of Al Rogero, the
State gridders ran up seventeen points, to
rout the ’Gators, 17. to 0. Last Saturday,
North Carolina upset the dope and handed

be on a par

impressive 38 to 0 score.

fof

| Deacons to a scoreless deadlock.

performances Florida's

+State their first setback by a 13 to 0 margin.

However, a record of four victories, one de-
feat, and a tic is not a bad record, especially
when one considers the class of the compe-
tition, From the list of victories it is easily
(Continued, on page 6)

Ten New-Men Initiated

Into French Fraternity

Variety of Entertainment Presented to
Le Cercle by Initiates

Le Cercle Francais met last Tuesday eve-
ning, a week ago, October 25th, at the home
of Dr. G. B. Watts. The event of the meet-
ing was the initiation of the new members,
Who furnished the programme at this time.

Messieurs Coit, Gullette, and Johnston pre-
sented a short skit entitled, “L’Illustre M.
Dupincnel.” Monsieur Pratt gave a talk on
“La Langue Francais.” rey |

Monsigur Hart rendered two numbers on
the piano by the French composers Chopin
and Saint-Saens, giving before each rendi-
The
last number by the new members was “Les
Chiens de Paris,” by Monsieur Spencer.

Following this, French were sung
by the members, and games were played.
Refreshments of ice cream and cake were
served at the end.

Mmes.. Goldiere and ‘Watts, honorary
members of Le Cercle, were present. A
Cercle announces with pleasure the
election of Messieurs Hart, Pratt, Johnston,
Spencer, Armistead, McCallie, Gullette, Coit,
Lafferty and Harrris.

The French club’is expecting to prepare
for the-public_presentation- of the perform-
ance of Tristan Bernard’s one-act comedy,
“L’Anglais Tel Qu ’On le Parle.” This farce,
based on the misadventures of an ignorant
hotel interpreter, has long been a hit on the
Parisian stage and for amateur  perform-
ances. As usual, a lecturer in French will
also be presented some time this year,

tion a short history of these artists.

songs

Le

Debating Tryouts

It has been announced by Leland
McKeithen, president of the Forensic
Council, that tryouts for the ‘debating
team have been postponed from
Thursday, November 3, to Tuesday,
November 8. This change was made

'y-on t of a conflict with
a meeting of the Quadwranglers’ Club.

The subject for the candidates will
be: “Resolved, That all commercial
banks should be national banks and a
member of the Federal Reserve Sys-

