THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

BASEBALL PRACTICE
NOW IN
PROGRESS

a.

THE SPORTS PARADE

GOLF AND TENNIS
SCHEDULES ALMOST
COMPLETE

Hotcha! Sprig has, cub. Off with the long
undies and on with the short, for spring is in
the air. And so are baseballs. Like a desert
oasis, the good old gym stands in wondering
perplexity. No longer does its hall resound with
the laughter of youthful voices. It has been
deserted. It has beenygurplanted by the diamond,
the terinis courts, the track, and the golf course.

The mellow sound of horsehide against
willow, the swish of tennis racquets, the
rhythmical tap-tap on the cinder path, and
the crack of a perfect drive—all bear wit-
ness that it is spring.

In track, golf, and tennis, Davidson should
achieve much success. Several lettermen in
these sports will be available, together with the
members of the Freshman teams of last year.
Baseball prospects are uncertain and far from
being bright. Developments will be awaited with
interest.

The hangover of what mediocre success
was achieved in basketball and wrestling
should soon subside and be forgotten in the
anticipated success in the spring sports. Our
congratulations to the two veterans, Martin
and Captain Mathis, for their past basketball
records, and to Conway, Taylor and Captain
Gorham on their success in wrestling.

Why not a marble tournament? There must
be quite a few crack shots within the Davidson
city limits. And what man wouldn't like to take
off his shoes and stockings, kneel down on the
ground, and with knuckles to the grit, aim at
a bunch of bright, shiny marbles, and be a kid
again.—"“Watch the movements of the hand--
get all the marbles in the land.” For keeps?
Tut, tut, the very idea!

It has been suggested to this writer that,
in view of the depression, we should all start
going barefoot, saving our shoes for the
hard winter to come. Good idea. Who'll start
it?

We have just recently learned in a round-
abount way that Davidson officials are plan-
ning on instituting a new system here whereby
every man in the student body will have ample
opportunity to engage in some prase of sports.
These rumors have it that tennis and golf in-
structors are to be hired, and that boxing as a
minor sport is to be established. In our opinion,
this is not only what Davidson needs badly,
but is exactly what Davidson students want.
Many students are kept from engaging in these
three fields of sports because of the lack of
adequate instruction, Not only this, but many
students have no desire to pursue along one
of these three lines of activity unless they are
able to become reasonably proficient. Should
these plans be put into effect, it is certain that
they would meet with the approval of the en-
tire student body.

The faces of Doc Newton and Gene Mc-
Ever are gradually becoming familiar to
everyone at Davidson. They appear to like
this part of the country very much and
seemed to have had little trouble in adapt-
ing themselves to the situation. Each Sat-
urday scrimmage shows much improvement,
and if things continue to improve, the Duke
Blue Devils should have their hands full
when the season opens against tHe ’Cats next

fall.

Davidson. Matmen Lose
To Strong U. N.C. Team

The Wildcat matmen were defeated here last
Wednesday afternoon by the University of
North Carolina wrestling team, 24 to 8. This
match concluded a very, successful tour, on
which the Tar Heel matmen tied the Army and
defeated the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute.

The Wildcats’ points came from a fall won
by Captain Gorham, 2 minutes and 25 seconds,

and a time advantage by Conway of 1 minute’

and 37 seconds. Carolina had three time ad-

First Call for Baseball
Answered by 30 Men;

Schedule Not Complete |

About thirty men answered»the first call for
baseball candidates issued Monday of this week.
Pitchers and catchers have been working out

... for 'the past week, without the guidance of a
~|coach, but organized practice was not begun

eae Monday afternoon.
} “Monk” Younger now has charge of the
| Prospects, but he will direct their work only
jfor the next ten or fifteen days, after which
jtime “Red” Laird will, assume the coaching
|duties. At the present time Laird is busy with
| spring football, getting an idea of the new sys-
|tem being introduced by Davidson's new men-
tors, so that he may direct the Freshman play
accordingly next fall. Varsity baseball coachnig
is not new to Laird, since he served in that
capacity last spring.

|

The 1932 baseball schedule is not complete
as yet, but several important games have been
| booked. Dartmouth is making

a southern. trip
and will stop here to engage the Wildeats on
| April 1, Games will also be played on Rich-
lardson Field against members of the Big Five,
with whom the Wildcats will play two games.

For the first time in Davidson will
make no tour into South Carolina. Most of the
South Carolina schools. are entered in a state
league and this year have cancelled out-of-state
games. Two trips are being composed for the

years

‘Cats, however. One will be during the Easter
holidays when the team goes north state, and
will include a game with Carolina at Winston-
Salem and another with Elon. On their other
trip the Wildcats will invade the eastern. part
f the state and will probably meet Carolina,
N. C. State and Duke University.

Martin and Harris ‘Are
High Scorers for Year

By scoring 38 points in the last five basket
hall games of the season, Grier Martin, of Cov-
ington, Ga., Davidson College center, wrested
the lead for high poiit-honors from Captain
Doc Mathis, of Rural Hall, forward, who was
out in front during most of the season. Mar-
tin’s total for the year was 97,

Mathis chalked up 21 in the last
quintet of games, to give him a season's record
of 83. Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, a guard,
was third with 64, followed by Lafferty, of
Rome, Ga., forward, with 57, Lafferty broke
into the line-up late in the year and garnered
32 points in the last five tilts. This quartet
scored 301 of Davidson's total of 363 points in
the 16 games the Wildcats played this winter.

Captain Harris, of Welch, W. Va., of the
Wildkittens, was not ousted from his lead, how-
ever, and scored exactly one-third of the total
points the Freshmen made in their 14 games
Harris, a forward, accounted for 108 points of
the 324 total. Lee West, of Barium Springs,
center, was responsible for 92 counters, the re-

counters

maining points being divided between almost a
dozen Freshmen. These two Freshmen
keteers together made on even 200 points for
the season, which was over 60 per cent of the
total.

bas-

Season’s Prospects for
‘Linkmen Very Promising

With the return of two members of ‘last
year’s state championship golf team, the pros-
pects for the Davidson linksmen seem very

favorable. Jack Wagner*and Tom Caldwell take
the places of Jack Pepper and “Sparrow” Mills
in leading the Wildcat quartet. The other mem-
bers are now inthe process of being selected by
preliminary matches here, which will be fin-
ished up by a 36-hole medal tourney in Char-
lotte.

The heavy schedule is to be started off with a
meet in Charlotte with W. & L., on March 30.
Immediately following this, the team goes to
Atlanta for matches with Emory, Georgia Tech,
University of Georgia, and Furman. A return
match will be played with Furman in Charlotte
on the 16th, and the following Tuesday they
leave to defend their crown at the State mect
in Greensboro, The routine there will
matches with Carolina on Wednesday, Duk«
ee Thursday, State on Friday, and the State
Tournament on Saturday. An indefinite trip to
Virginia to play three teams is contemplated but
not yet settled.

be

vantages and a similar number of falls for their
total.

In a preliminary meet the Wildkittens lost
their first match of thé’ season to the Carolina
Freshmen by, a score of 18 1-2 to 9 142. The
meet, however, was much closer than the score
indicates. Forte won his match by a fall; Owens
and his man battled to a draw, ard Hand gained
a time advantage over his opponent. The Caro-
lina men had one fall and four time advantages.

{

Flake Laird’s All-State

Selections |
— |

First Team Pos.

J .Thompson (Dk.) Weathers (C)

Forward

Hines (C) Muhlerhn (W)
Forward

Alpert (Dk.) Martin (Da.)
Center

Rose (S) Malloy (W)
Guard-

Alexander (C) Shaw (Dk.)
Guard

Wildcat Football Team
To Open 1932 Schedule
With Devils at Durham

Athletic authorities at the University of North
Carolina, Duke University, and Davidson Col
lege have reaéhed a three-ply two-year agree
ment, whereby Davidson opens Duke's schedule
in 1932 and Carolina's ecard in 1933, with Caro
lina playing at Davidson's Home-Coming next
fall, and Duke coming to Davidson in the fall
of 1933 for the Wildeat Home-Coming cele |
bration. :

It has been known for some time that David
son would open the Duke schedule next fall, but
it is news that the Wildeats will open the Caro-
lina slate in 1933. This agreement between the |
three institutions the |

Wake customarily |

was made with knowl

edge of Forest, who has

heen starting their season with the Tar Heels. |

Carolina and Wake Forest will play later in
the 1933 season.

The date of the Tar Heel-Wildeat tussle in
1932 has already been set and agreed upon as
November 12, Davidson's Home Coming cate
No reached for the
Duke-Davidson date here in 1933, but the un
derstanding is that it will be late in October or
early in’ November, with that it

agreement has yet been

a possibility

will be on the corresponding ‘date that Carolina |

plays here next fall.

Tennis Eliminations Are
Run to Decide Rankings

Stevens, manager of yar
1932

According to J. B.

sity tennis, the tennis team of will be

selected by March 24. The team last season |
was composed Of DuBose, Calder, Roddy and

Myers, but a process of elimination is now be
ing run off and it is possible that there will be
hanges.

The following is a tentative schedule: April
Hampden-Sydney College, here
April 11, Emory University in Atlanta; April
12, University of Georgia, in Athens (Pend.) ;
April 13, Furman University at Greenville;
April 14, University of South Carolina at Co
lumbia (Pend.); April 16, University of Rich
mond, here; April 25, U. N. C. at Chapel Hill;
April
April, open Hampden-Sydney ) ;
April, U. of Richmond at Richmond; April 29,
open; April 30, U. of Virginia at Charlottes
ville; May 11, Duke at Davidson; May 14,
N, Y. U., here.

Last year's tennis team won state-wide rec

9

(probably

ognition by advancing to the quarter finals in
the intercollegiate tourney at Chapel Hill, and
since all members of last year’s team are now

ed with interest by Davidson students.

in school, season's developments will be ot
|

N
A Complete Servic e,
for School Publications

Annuals
Magazines

Catalogs

, Oiew Books

nCily PrintingCo.
Charlotte, R2.C. |

‘Quee
\ Cstablished 169%

|
SCARLET TANAGER |

Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
THIS WEEK

Skrip Ink 10c Carter’s 5c
Stock Limited

Prompt Service

Second Team |!

26, William and Mary at Williamsburg ; |

Buck Mills Leads Reds ——__
To Victory O acks
In Spring Practice Tilt

“Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, Wildeat
| mentors, put their charges through a regulation
{grind last Saturday, when they sent two picked
other for sixty minutes
lof hard scrimmaging. The Saturday scrimmages
| between the “Reds” and the “Blacks” have be
weekly and next Saturday's
fracas is slated to be the last of the spring
training season.

| squads against each

lcome a feature,

led
by the elusive Buck Mills, who ran roughshod
over the “Blacks,” defeating them decisively hy

In last Saturday's imbroglio the “Reds,”

a 47-0 score. The enviable total compiled dy the
“Reds” came as the result of seven touchdowns
and five extra points, due mainly to the efforts
of a sextet of flashy ball, carriers, composed
of Mills, Fleagle, Caton, Wingfield, Flinn, and
Hutchins. These boys literally tore the “Blacks”
forward wall to shreds, and knifed it repeatediy

for long gains.
The game was a regulation sixty-minute af-
fair, with all rules being carried out. However,

hit was a walkaway from the start, with Wills,

despite an injured leg, taking a major share
of the glory. The “Red” line looked good also,
and kept the “Black" backs completely in cheek
throughout.

P. F. Brown Winner

Of the Gym Trophy

Paul FF. Brown, Jr, of Atlanta, Ga., a mem-
ver of the Junior ckiss, has been declared win-
jner of the gymnastic trophy, offered annually
{by the Davidson College Athletic Association
to the student scoring the highest number of
points in 36 competitive events. Brown's total
}was 2600. The competition extended over a pe
riod of six weeks,

B.
a Sophomore, was

For the second time in as many years, L.
| Adcox, of Pine Bluff, N. C.,
}second with 224 points, and LL. 1
}of Macon, Ga.,

199. ‘The trophy was won last year by J.

Quarterman,
a Freshman, came third with
(C)
| Ramseur, of Lincolnton, a 1931 graduate

V.P.1I. Wrestlers Down

> ’Cats, 22-8, in Final Match

The Wildcat wrestlers ‘ended their season last
Saturday night by losing to V. P. I., 22-8, at
Blacksburg, Va. The Gobblers won every bout
except the 155 and 165-pound matches.

Taylor and Conway, 165 and 155 pounds, re-
spectively, were the two Davidson men to win
their events. Taylor won his match by a fall
in five minutes and 17 seconds.

Summary :

115-pound class—Price of Tech defeated For-
his, time advantage, 6:30.

125-pound class—Mitchell, Tech,
Captain Gorham, time advantage, 2:57.

defeated

135-pound class—Captain Graves defeated
Tyack, fall, in 6:33.

145-pound class—Allison, Tech, defeated Ash-
craft, time advantage, 5:40.

155-pound class—Conway, Davidson, defeat-
ed Hardwick, time advantage, 1:56.

165-pound class—Taylor, Davidson, defeate-l
White, fall, in 5:17,

175-pound Waldrop,
Wilson, time advantage of 7:45.

Unlimited—-Gibbs, Tech,
fall, in 4:21.

class Tech, cefeated

defeated Whitteld,

S. A. E.’s Take Inter-Frat
Basketball Tournament

>»?

On Monday night, February the Sigma
Alpha basketball team for the
second consecutive year the inter-fraternity bas-
ketball tournament by defeating the Pi Kappa
Alpha team, 16 to 10. The game started rather
slowly on account of the S, A. E“s strong de-
fense, which held the Pi K. A.’s scoreless for
the first quarter, while they themselves rang

Epsilon won

up four points. However, in the second quarter
the Pi K. A.’s broke this defense and pulled
down four points to only two of their opponents.
Thus the half found the score 6 to 4 with (ie
Pi K. Avs at the little end, but working hard

,to pull their score up.

During the first period of the second half the

The Junior class, as a unit, scored 1,461 |S. A, If.’s ran the score too high for the come-

to lead the who totaled
}713!o. The Freshmen were third with 445, close

points Sophomores,

back which the Pi K. A.’s staged in the last

quarter to be of any avail. Much praise is due

| ly followed by the Seniors, with 435. The class | Roane and Mills for this hardy comeback, while

standing was determined by taking the 20 high

Manson also deserves credit for his de-

Mack

fest men in points, and computing it from this. 'fensive work.

|

J O JONES CO

“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”

COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
| TO COLLEGE MEN

208 South Tryon Street

Charlotte

For

Men and Boys

ceca

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials!
Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how
athletic union guits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.

HANES UNDERWEAR

Expert. tailor-

All

HANES low prices!

: For

