THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MARCH 2, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY TILE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Fost
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:0 p. m., Monday.

DEZURIBRaMAR DINGS bencosscsccbrscaccaasuesasy Editor-in-Chief
Bev MSECONWAY cibusteseteieesssusucase: sdoese Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. 0. GUERRANT. --Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLI Managing. Editor
(on) YERS. Managing Editor
B. B, SUGG... --Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON .-Feature . Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN... --Feature Fditor
H. W. ERVIN. .--Review Editor
4 By GAR Rss 525o. --Exchange Editor
*. C. DWELLE, JR.. --Associate Editor
WioS) EBA et ccsuic sus --Associate Editor
NV OM ATEDH WW Sidicesepcccends Sackccccaces Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
AlOM MANSON scscceccts ces ccus Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE. --Assistant Business Manager
. W. WHITTED.. -Assistant Business Manager

Weieth  DIUIRRON coscccacesuscduescesccccce Subscription Manager
Wicd y 2) GHINSO Nuuvcocssuscucscuckasgecubbasbudebeussbecd Solicitor
i Re NBAG cies ----Solicitor
L. R. WOOTTON ---Solicitor
AGTH UMANSONsiécssiistealesuetacddecdundcacsaons Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

AY HY BWHITBHBADIG Nivcsubccssculosicusclccuseecces President
Vi Ei DARReieres.. ..----- Vice-President
Wie Bre MU BRISSigeiischsicccc ss ccssescucces Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

B, B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

¥ E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK

0, CASALT W. M. THOMPSON

T.. W. CLARDY. JR, W. T. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAMS J. A. HUNTER

MARCH 2, 1932

Let knowledge grow from more to more.
—Tennyson.

PARAGRAPHICS

A continued s!ump in vesper attendance has made
itself evidenced in the past few Sundays. The Y. M.
C. A. has gone to trouble and expense to bring notable
personages to the Davidson campus. We owe our
appreciation by attending. We also owe it to our-
selves.

pein eosete p YRePVECE SN

We have been gratified in the constant improve-
ment of the football squad in mastering the new sys-
tem. They showed spurts of real class out there Sat-
urday. They play their last spring game this coming
Saturday.

eS yes,

Jerome Clark said that as soon as the Juniors had
made expenses off the pre-sale of their “week-end”
tickets the prices would then be increased. He really
meant by about March 5. Get your tickets now.

———_D—__

The Davidsonian extends its heartiest congratula-
tions to those recently extended the Phi Beta Kappa
bid.

—_D——____

We have unconfirmed wind of the fact that student
body elect’ons will begin about March 15, or in about
two weeks.

———__D—___.

We see that Vanity Fair nominates for oblivion
Senator Sol Bloom, chairman of the Washington bi-
centennial celebration, for making the father of our
country the object of twentieth century ballyhoo.
What do you know about that? We wi!l not add ours
for fear it will not carry much weight.

——_____—_ J) _
FRIENDSHIPS

The subject of friends and the forming of
friendships has been dealt with in literature since
the beginning of time as one of vital importance.
Cicero, Emerson, and Bacon put down their re-
flections in writing in an excellent manner, and
they have survived and are frequently read at the
present time. Bacon says that he “who delights in
solitude is either a wild beast or a god.” This
phrase is as true now as in Bacon’s time or any
other time.

It is generally conceded by the majority that
the primary purpose of attending college or uni-
versity is to gain knowledge. Many want this
knowledge merely to be better equipped to gain
material wealth; others seek after knowledge for
its own sake. Whatever is the aim of the student
at an institution of higher learning, if when he
graduated all he can assert is that he has gained
knowledge and nothing else, he will lack one of
the essentials of education, There is no way to
estimate the real value of forming friendships,
but certainly their value is very high, and he who
does not use the opportunity offered to make
friends is suffering an irreparable loss. The value
of a college course in a scholastic sense is not
being depreciated, because its value is very well
known. However, scholastic attainment is not suf-
ficient ‘unto itself.

The opportunity of forming friendships is
present at any institution, but as very few col-
leges in the country are recognized as having as
high caliber students as Davidson, it would nat-
urally seem that those of us who are content with
few friends here are doing an injustice to our-
selves. Of course many strong and firm friend-
ships have been and are still being formed on
‘this canipus, but some students who confine them-
‘selves too elosely, for various reasons, do not

+

THE TEUTON DEMAGOGUE

Gaining publicity and strength as the days fly
by, the new German National Socialist Workers
Union now bids fair to dominate the field of poli-
tics in Germany. Modeled strongly after Musso-
lini’s fascists movement in Italy, the National
party attracts the youth and hot bloods of the
fatherland. At every new election the votes cast
for the new party break all previous records. Be-
fore the election for the German Parliament in
1930, according to T, R. Ybarra, who has recently
made an extensive study of the Nazi party, only
twelve of the party deputies had seats in the leg-
islature. When the returns were announced the

number had increased to the amazing figure of
107.

Shortly after the Great War, six young Ger-
man patriots decided to form a new party. A sev-
enth, hearing of their plans, crashed their party,
dominated their meeting by his astounding elo-
quence and by his overpowering personality. Then
with the aid of the six, Adolph Hitler proceeded
to make real their fantastic and vague dream.

Today the seven have grown to 700,000. At
the last election for the German Parliament, it
commanded the votes of 7,000,000 Germans.
hag hy this vast.army of voters, this fiery, Glo-
que demagogue confidently expects to taxe
charge of the government within the near future.

His policy is discipline and obedience among
his followers. His national policy is the restora-
tion of Germany as a national power second to
none. Hirst, Germany shall not pay one cent more
in reparations. She will by drastic lessening of
her imports recreate a favorable balance for her-
self, a doubtful policy. She Will eliminate the
ascendency of elements in her population which,
to Hitler, is a liability. This program naturally
includes opposition to France, Germany’s arch
enemy of long standing,

How, we may ask, does this party continue to
grow? Under the leadership of a man who has
handed together men as if under some secret fra-

ternal organization, including all the paraphernalia,

salutations, mysticisms, ete., can it bear “enough
weight to make headway ? Some say Hitler has the
power of hynotism and that he is holding his fol-
lowers under a spell.

But not so, for even under his mask of arti-
ficiality, it seems that Adolph Hitler has given to
Germany that which she needs, spirit and deter-
mination of a positive nature. The writer does not
look for this party to fail, but on the contrary
that it should be the next governing body of the
Germans seems inevitable.

But when Hitler does come into power he will
undoubtedly be arrayed against the world. How
can he escape the fate of leaders of the opposi-
tion in other countries when they succeed in oust-
ing foes in the government ? Mr. Ybarra mentions
two probable outcomes if Hitler continues his
career of extremism: Either France will acquiesce
in the restoration of Germany to a world power;
or Germany will be abetted in her defiance of
France by allies among the nations of the world.

a

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

er
>

The Citadel

In this column last week we said that General Sum-
merall, president of The Citadel, had resigned from that
institution, In this issue we are happy to state that he
has reconsidered and is again at the head of The Citadel.
In appreciation for his return, The Bulldog says the fol-
lowing :

“General Summerall has been thanked by individuals,
by boards, and by some cadets; but_the corps as a whole
has not expressed its appreciation for the General's act.
Therefore the Corps of Cadets wishes to thank General
Summerall for withdrawing his resignation from the
Board of Visitors. The corps feels that it was for it that
the resignation was withdrawn. The corps is justly proud
that it played a part in affecting the withdrawal and again
it says, ‘Thank you, General Summerall.’”

4

On Friday, March 11, the Junior Class of Citadel will

give a dance to the Senior class with Jelly Leftwich and

his famous orchestra from Duke University furnishing

the music. On the next afternoon there will be a tea dance

and that night a dance called the Mess-Hall will be given,
completing the dances for that week-end.

bad

realize precisely what they are losing. Friendships
can mean much to a man while he is still in his
student days, but they may mean still more after
graduation. The old adage that friendships formed
during one’s college days will be truest and firm-
est seems very true, because students can know
each other much more intimately at this stage of
life than after it. Before this stage is reached, the
person in many instances is too immature to form
friends who will have the same interests in after
life. After the college days are over one may be-
come set in his ways and form fewer friendships,
but during one’s years in college he is very much
more closely associated with a great many more
people than he ever will be after college. It seems
logical that if one can’t or doesn’t make friends
when so closely associated with people, he won’t
have the tendency to do it in later life when he is
not so; closely connected with them. These are

truly the halcyon days of our life in many re-_.
spects, and every effort ought to be exerted to’

reap all the benefits possible. -
..E. O. Guerrant;

N

“|. .Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—_.
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

“BULL-DOG” McINNIS GROWLS

A Short Story

“Bull-Dog” McInnis and “Spud” Harliss breathed a

‘sigh of relief as they closed the door to the latter’s dingy

hideout, and found themselves protected by the steadily
gathering darkness.

“Not a bad night, ‘Spud,’ for the little job—there’s an
ungodly storm brewin’ outside, and the chances are that
the Belhaven ‘Special’ won't have many passengers aboard
her tonight, which’ll make things all the easier for us,”
drawled McInnis, as the two settled themselves com-
fortably to enjoy a pipeful of what “Spud” had insisted
was “real ole Virginia tobacco.”

“Yep,” grunted Spud, trying hard to enjoy his last
smoke, in spite of the gathering storm and the thought of
the “job” that was before them, “and we gotta get a
move on. It’s not every coon’s age that a ten grand pay-
roll finds itself on a hiek train like that, and we don’t
want to miss the chance to cash in on it. Now remember,
I'll be waitin’ at the Cross Creek Gap; an’ all you gotta
do is to watch out for the right place, and then pull like
hell on that air brake cord in the passenger coach. As
sdon as the train slows down, I'll hop in the mail car
and give that lousy mail clerk-a swat on the cocoanut
before he knows “what it’s all about, and then scram with
the ten grand before anybody gets wise. I'll meet you
down the hill at the place you were talking about. You
be sure and clear out before anybody lamps you, and
gums up the works.’ And with that the two parted,
Harliss returning in the direction of the hideout, where
he had a roadster hidden in a back alley, and “Bull-Dog”
McInnis heading for the small railroad station a few
blocks away, to await the midnight “Special,” a one
horse rattler from Belhaven, said to have the $10,000
payroll aboard.

There was only one other passenger in the coach
when McInnis shuffled on board about 12:30. ‘1
I'd better ‘feel him out’,” he decided, “and see if he is
wise to anything.” He took a seat directly opposite the
stranger, and temporarily shielded himself behind a news-
paper that he had found lying conveniently near. After
a few minutes he casually laid it aside to peer at his
new travelling companion. As he did so the latter sud-
denly looked up.

syuess

“By jove!” he exclaimed, “It’s McInnis! Where the
dickens have you been in the last year or so?”

“Well swat me, if it ain't McGraw!” said McInnis,
greatly relieved, “D—n if this ain't a break! Been makin’
good ?”

“Not so good. Hard times. You remember Jerry, the
pal of mine whose life you saved—don't you? He died
last week. Left a widder and six brats. I been helpin’
them out a little, but they're in a bad way. You seem
to be going strong, just judgin’ from appearances—-am
I right, or am I right?”

“You are partly right, and then again you're nartly
right, Mac. But listen here, get a load of this, Mac. I
got a scheme hatched up now that oughtta mean ceady
cash before the night is over. An’ I ain't forgettin’ you
on this deal, either, and I'll give you some dough to help
out Jerry’s widder. Of course, now,” he grinned, “I
wouldn't tell this little scheme to just anyone, you know
—f'instance a cop! Now the idea is this... .

The Belhaven. “Special” pounded its way on into the
night, emitting one lone screech as it drew near the Cross
Creek turnpike, the only crossroads within fifty miles of
that God-forsaken spot. A trim blue roadster was parked
near the crossing, but the inky blackness hid it com-
pletely. “Spud” Harliss was waiting a hundred yards or
so on down the track, and for a moment his uncouth,
contorted face beamed with a gloting joy, as the shrill
blast of the oncoming locomotive rent the night air.

McInnis, with one hand on the air brake cord, and his
face pressed against the window pane, peered intently into
the blackness outside, striving to locate the exact spot
at which he was to pull the cord, and stop the train. As
he did so, he failed to see McGraw whip out a gruesome
revolver and advance a step closer.

“All right, Mac, your little game is up. Pull that cord

and I'll pull the trigger—sorry to interfere with your
‘little scheme,’ but orders are orders. You said only a

i little while ago that you wouldn’t have told your scheme

ry

to just anyone, especially a cop! Hah, that’s just what
you did, practically. You see I quit the racket a long
time ago, and now have a job aSvdetective for the Bel-
haven Trust Company. And I was told not to let any
bad boys play hide and go seek with the fat payroll, un-
der any Conditions—so you see where I stand. You once
saved a pal of mine, and I haven't forgotten it. I shall
do equally as much for you. As we speed past Cross
Creek Gap, toward Little Falls, we shall leave your pal,
“Spud” Harliss, alias “Mike” Ilitz, to beat it back to
safety. And another thing. You said that you were going
ae,

What Do You Think?

Business men’s art clubs, a rapidly growing cultural
phenomenon in the larger American cities, had their
origin in Chicago, according to Karl Buehr of the Art
Institute. Now in twenty cities the tired business man
with a secret yearning for the brush, pen, or pencil, has
an opportunity to exercise his artistic urge during his
leisure hours.

In 1920 Mr. Buehr had a business men’s class for men
who had taken up art as a hobby. They found relaxation
in the evenings drawing and painting, with occasional
sketching trips to the country. Mr. Buehr suggested that
a permanent organization be formed. Eighteen men be-
came charter members with Elbert G. Drew, a telephone
company official, as president. The organization now
boasts 115 members.

Against the obvious assumption that most bankruptcies
are to be laid at the door of the well-known depression,
the study by the Department of Commerce of 612 bank-
rupt cases and other business failures in ‘New Jersey in
1931 established the fact that the major cayse was ineffi-
cient business methods and practices, according to an
article in the United States Daily.

More than half the firms subjected to this _post-mortem
investigation either kept no books at all or kept inade-
quate records, and 39 per cent of them never took an
inventory.

Another aspect of the depression is thrust upon us by
Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University when he tells us
that children born during the depression will probably
be smaller than those born during other times. This sup-
position is made more clear by the results of the study
and observation which he has been making for some time.
He has issued the following statement:

“Economic conditions influence the size of growing
children. Among the poor the period of adolescence is de-
layed and the final structure is shorter than that of the
well-to-do.”

For any of those who might feel a fear as to the re-
ligious trends of modern college thought, the following
statement by Dr. Herbert W. Searles of the School of
Philosophy at the University of Southern California
comes as a relief and a comfort:

“Less than five per cent of college students are atheists
and twenty-four per cent of them find prayer valuable
in strengthening the will or moral power.

“Implicit faith in God was professed by an average of
81 pér cent of the students: enrolled in five colleges and
universities. Approximately 44 per cent of the students
undergo some sort of change in their conception of God
during the years they spend in colleges and universities.
The general trend of student thought is from belief in
a personal God to belief in an impersonal God, and away
from orthodoxy.

“The greatest change is noted in the junior and senior
years, and there is a swing back to a personal conception
of the-Almighty after graduate study.”

It was estimated by Dr. E. C. Branson, head of the
department of rural social economics in the University
of North Carolina, that there are now 47,000 native born
white women illiterates in North Carolina.

“The public schools, the mission schools, and the moon-
light schools, have made praiseworthy efforts to stamp
out illiteracy, but they have had so far to go that they
have done comparatively little.

“The church can still do a great deal, and the adult
education movement has infinite possibilities.

“One reason so little has been accomplished is because
the appeal is for home missions which always lack the
enchantment of foreign missions. Most of the white wom-
en illiterates are country women, their plight, being suf-
focating loneliness and sealed silence.”

It seems unreasonable to believe that there is this
much illiteracy among just the white women of North
Carolina alone. Think of the forty-seyen other states, not _
to mention the white men illiterates and all of the illit-
erate negroes, men and women. Illiteraéy today is dis-
tressing to even realize; it is a problem which should
concern everybody.

to help me out with some dough. You were going to give
me part of some money that was to come easily into your
hands—well, again I’ll do the same for you. Do you re-
member that little ‘job’ you staged over in Ohio? The
time you ‘did in’ Lefty O’Brien? Well, in case you didn't
know, or hadn't heard, there’s an awful big price on your
head—they’ve been offering it since September. Well, the
next time I get a day off, I'll drop by and give you part
of that easily earned money! A hard working guy like
myself might as well get that dough as anyone. You re-
member the time I tried to get you to go straight? I
told you what you wuz headin’ for—oh well, I ain’t goin’
to do any preaching to you; you'll have plenty of time
in the near future to figure it out for yourself—only it'll
be too late.”

“Well, here we are at last.’ Just to be sure that we
‘pals” shall ‘stick together’ for a little while, you'll par-
don me if I slip these ‘bracelets’ on. This is a helluva
night for you to be out playin’ around. I think I better
take you to a place where they got free rooms and board
—since your ‘ready cash’ didn’t-turn up.”

And “Bull-Dog” McInnis only growled, “All I wanna
know is why in the hell did J agree to go on the train,
and let ‘Spud’ wait out in th’ gap? Anyway, I hope he

‘catches his d—n death of cold out there waitin’ fer me.”

THE END,
