BASKETBALL |
PLAYS SEASON ENDS
i h © Way idsonian | ok
‘“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” :
Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1932 No. 19

Trustees Favor R. O. T. C.

Continuance at Davidson

Profs. Beaty, Blythe, and Gwyn Are
Made Full Professors in Their
Respective Departments

LILLY GRANTED LEAVE

Committee Appointed to Study Whole
Question of Athletics

pelt

At the repent meeting of the trustees of Da-
vidson Colfege on the seventeenth, they adopted
a report made by the Committee on R. O. T. C.,
which recommended the continuance of military
training at Davidson with some modifications.

For two or three years this matter has been
before the trustees, and the recommendation was
made only after exhaustive investigation in all
fields. Twenty-eight of the body were present
to vote on this measure. Military training will
no longer be compulsory for those students
whose parents are conscientious objectors, those
who have already had a two-year military course
under government supervision, and those pre-
medical students, whose crowded two-year
course is conflicting. Physically disabled stu-
dents have always been exempt. These rulings
have been in effect for a good while, under the
supervision of the faculty, but the Board of
Trustees had_never accepted them before this.

The trustees adopted all of the recommenda-
tions made by President Walter L. Lingle, and
listened to a report of Mr. Frank L, Jackson,
treasurer of the college, which indicated that
the college would end its fiscal year with a bal-
ance on the basis of estimated income and ex-
penditures for the remainder of the year.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, of the department . of
education, and Associate Professor F. L. Blythe,
of the Spanish department, were made full-
time professors. Their installation will take
place at the next commencement.

Announcement was also made of the election
of Prof. Ernest A. Beatty, of the language de-
partment, to a full professorship of Latin. This
action was taken at the June meeting of the
trustees, but was not made known until this
recent meeting.

Dr. G R. Harding, head of the department
of Greek, and Dr. W. R. Gray, head of the
Latin department, and who have passed the re-
tirement age, were re-elected for another year,
but provision was made to assign them to only
part-time work. Prof, J. C. Bailey, graduate of
Davidson, will return here from Johns Hop-
kins in the fall to-do the major teaching of
Greek. Professor Beatty will assume the ma-
jority of the Latin teaching,

Prof. Henry T,

Lilly, of the English depart-
ment,

it, was granted a year’s leave of absence,
during which time he will take post-graduate
work.

The trustees appointed a committee, com-
(Continued on page 6)

Foreign Mission Problem
Explained By Missionary

The open door of China, the accumulating
momentum of missionary enterprise, and the
fact that Christianity is the only religion today
which can meet the ideals of the world were
three reasons advanced by Rev. C. Darby Ful-
ton, D.D., in his talk on February 16, as en-
couraging factors in the missionary enterprise
in foreign lands,

“It may seem odd for me to talk of the ‘open
door’ in China, when our missionaries in 1927
suffered untold indignities, were held at the
point of guns,. dnd the mob was clamoring for
their lives,” he said, “but not since the Boxer
uprising in 1900 has there been such a propitious
moment for the Christian religion today. Only
one man out. of a thousand in China is a Chris-
tian, and only one out ‘of 400 in Japan has pro-
fessed Christ.”

Dr. Fulton told of the internal turmoil in
the, economic, social, and political life of China,
and spoke on how the Chinese were re-arrang-
ing the foundations of the whole national order ;
how temples and shrines were being turned into
‘Market places and schools, how idols were

burned because. the people there have lost faith
in the old religions,

“The church today has the opportunity of
implanting Christ at the very root of China’s
dife. Shall it be holshevism or Jesus Christ?”
he asked. “It, shall be one or the other because
China is changing. The last quarter of a cen-
tury has witnessed great stirrings,” and urged

(Continued on page 6)

Five I. R.C. Members
Attend Conference

Five members of the International Relations
Club of Davidson left here last Monday to at-
tend the International Relations Clubs’ South-
eastern Conference being held at Rollins Col-
lege, Winter Park, Fla., February 24 and 25.
They were D. Grier Martin, E. C. Dwelle, Jr.,
Chas. F. Myers, S. S. Wiley, and Arthur Ross.
These men are representing Davidson at the
conference, ‘which is being conducted under the
auspices of the Carnegie. Endowment for In-
ternational Peace. Martin has the distinction of
being vice-president of the Southeastern Divi-
sion of the clubs and will deliver the response
for the delegates after the address of welcome
by President Hamilton Holt, of Rollins, on the
first day of the conference. He was elected to
this office at the eighth annual convention last
year, which was held at .Duke University.

An interesting and elaborate program has
been planned ‘for this year’s conference, and
many nationally known speakers and _ leaders
have been secured. On the opening day, Dr.
Cullen B. Gosnell, of Emory University, fac-
ulty advisor of the convention, will deliver an
address on “The International Relations Clubs.”
That evening another lecture will be given by
Dr. Fred B. Smith, chairman of the executive
committee, Church Peace Union, on “America
and the New Internationalism.” In the con-
cluding address of the conference, Mr. James
G. McDonald, chairman of the Board of For-
eign Policy Association, and vice-chairman of
the National Council for the Prevention of
War, will speak on “The United States and the
World Crisis.” Among the conference leaders
will be Jane Addams, founder of Hull House
and president of the Woman's International
League for Peace ;*Charles C. Bauer, secretary
of the League of Nations Association; Irving
Fisher, professor of political economy at Yale
University, and Rear Admiral C. L.
United States Navy.

Dr. C. Darby Fulton |
Speaks to Students

Concludes His Two-Day Stay With
Informal Discussion

Hussey,

“Christ is unique in meeting the needs of the
world today in that He provides the world
with its own perfect ideal, in the experience
He imparts, in the power of moral and spiritual
transformation, and in the salvation He offers,”
declared Rey. C. Darby Fulton, D.D., execu-
tive secretary of the foreign mission board of
the Southern Presbyterian Church, in the sec-
ond and last public address he will deliver to
Davidson students during the two-day mission
instituted he conducted. under the auspices of
the Y. M. C. A. He delivered this talk last
Wednesday.

Dr. Fulton concluded his two-day stay here
with an informal discussion with interested stu-
dents in foreign missions of any nature. He
spoke to the Bible classes, and related some of
his own experiences as a worker in the foreign
fields, and- effectively presented the cause.

“Non-Christian faiths,” said Dr. Fulton in his
address, “are built around principles, and not
personalities. Buddha admitted that he was not
able to live out his system of ethics and morals,
and Confucius never claimed he could conform
to his own. Contrast this with Christ. He taught
His own ethics and set the example for us to
follow. Jesus is morality incarnate. He! is not
an architect’s drawing, but the building itself;
He is not a survey map, but the whole pan-
oramic view itself.”

In discussing his second point, Dr. Fulton said
that the world is clamoring for religions of
experience. People in the Orient, he said, first
approached their religions from an intellectual
viewpoint, but today they are seeking for an
anchorage for the soul—a contentment they do
not have. He maintained that the Oriental
youths are more in quest of things of the Spirit
than the youth of America, and yet he said that
no young people are more dissatisfied with their
own religion than those of Japan, China, and
the other countries without Christ.

Dr. Fulton told from personal experience the
lack of moral and spiritual transformation he
had observed in the Orient. “In all my expe-
rience of identifying myself with these people,

. (Continued on page 6)

Honor Roll

SENIOR CLASS
Bettis, E. S.
Carr, H. L.
Enloe, R. P.
Hancock, W. T.
Harrison, C. W.
Hawkins, W. B.
McLean, T. W.
McQueen, D. M.
Mann, J. O.
Spencer, C. S.
Stephenson, D. G.
Welch, J. T., Jr.
Wiley, S. S.
JUNIOR CLASS
Bettis, C. E.
Brown, P. F., Jr.
McBryde, D.D.
McConnell, D. M.
McKeithen, W. L.
McNair, W. E.
Patton, A.
Schackelford, E. W.
Ward, W. B.
SOPHOMORE CLASS
Blair, J. T.
Hellegers, F. R.
McGeachy, J. A.
Thompson, W. T., Jr.
Thompson, W. M.
FRESHMAN CLASS
Coit, R. T. oi
Douglas, J. M., Jr.
Exum, W. A.
Hamilton, Lois Neal
Porter, R. M., Jr.
Rhodes, A. B.

Seniors Hold Feed and
Smoker February 15th

Representatives of the Alumni Council
For the Class of 1932 Were
Elected

NEW COACHES PRESENT

Hold Effective Discussion in Regard
to Class Gift

On. Monday night, February 15, at 9 o'clock,
the Senior class held a smoker in the banquet
hall of Chambers Building. In connection with
the smoker, an election of the representatives
of the class of 1932 on the Alumni Council was
held.

The affair “feed” and
smoker. The new athletic coaches, Newton and
McEver, and Captain Pritchett, were present,
each making a short talk. Other entertainment
during the evening consisted of.some musical
selections by Caligan and Cunningham, after
which three Freshmen, McLean, Monroe and
Northern (The Pills Brothers), produced some
other songs.

In the election of the Alumni Council repre-
sentatives, the following men were automatically
elected by virtue of their present offices: D. S.
King, president of the student body; J. H. Mc-
Kinnon, Jr., president of the Senior class; R. P.
Fnloe, president of the Y. M. C. A.; D. M.
MacQueen, president of the Athletic Associa-
tion, and D. G. Martin, editor of The David-
sonian. Sam Wiley was selected from a group
made up of the ten highest in scholastic stand-
ing and the Senior varsity debaters. From a
group composed of the business managers of
varsity athletic teams, business managers of the
three major publications, and the treasurer of
the Senior class, Bob Gorrell was chosen. Nat
Spier was elected from the group of the Seniors
on the Pan-Hellenic Council. From the group
of the captains of varsity athletic teams, L. S.
Raker was elected. The representative from the
Senior class at large was Cal Kuykendall.

Vereen Bell was elected class marshal, in
which position he will take part in the com-
mencement program. The Seniors also discussed
their class gift and narrowed the decision down
to a choice between the establishment of a loan

was a combination

Charlotte Editor Is
“*Y” Vesper Speaker

Mr. Julian Miller, editor-in-chief of the Char- |
|

lotte News, delivered a sincere and inspiring |
address at Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday |
evening. Calvin Kuykendall. read a portion of |
the Scripture from which the speaker took his |
text, John:1-10, “I am come that they might

have life, and that they might -have it more

abundantly.” A’ violin solo was rendered by
Byron Schriver, with Edward MeNair as ac-
companist, before the speaker made his talk.

Mr. Miller is a graduate of Erskine College
and is a member of the Board of Trusteés of
that institution. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa and has béen the editor of the
Charlotte News for many years. Mr. Miller
spoke here last year and was greatly enjoyed
by the Davidson students.

The speaker's topic was “The Abundant
Life,” or, as he expressed it, ‘Getting a Kick
Out of Religion.” Mr. Miller began his address
with the following illustration: He was going
to a country church for services and had his
little son with him, The weather was bad and
the sand clay road, composed for the most part
of clay, was wet and slippery, so that one had
to drive slowly and carefully to keep from skid-
ding into the ditch. His little boy suddenly |
said, “I wish this road was a hundred yards
wide and didn’t have ditches on either side.
Then I would drive as fast as possible, try to
keep straight, and see what would happen,”

Mr. Miller went on to say that he desired
a tangible Christ, a real being to whom one
might take faults and troubles and be praised,
reprimanded, or shown the right way. A religion
that is the personification of this, a religion that
one can reach in every-day life and not one that
is cut and dried and comes out of a book, ought
to be the desire and aim of every man.

The speaker said that the younger genera-
tion ought to have a better attitude towards the
church and Christ. We often underestimate the
value of our lives because we do not have the
correct respect for Christ. The following illus-
tration was used in connection with this point:
Two boys flew an airplane to the height of
three thousand feet, knowing scarcely nothing
about the operation of the machine, but laugh-
ing at fate and taking a chance. The plane soon
crashed to the earth and they lost their lives.
Waywardness and the willingness to do danger-
ous things with little thought for the outcome
are characteristics that should be discouraged.

Christian lives are important and extremely
valuable. They are not to be taken for granted
and thought little good. Because we only go to
church on Sunday and have a one-day-of-the-
week religion as some people think, that is no
reason why we shouldn't practice being a true
Christian in our lives every day.

Plays Are Postponed
Until Another Week

The Little Theatre is to Present
“The Valiant”

According to an announcement of the Mas-
quers, the date for the three plays has been
postponed for a week. Rehearsals continue un-
der way. Last week Mr. Farrington, who is as-
sociated with the Little Theatre of Charlotte,
made a visit to Davidson to look over the stage
and scenery.

In the cast of “The Valiant’ is included a
Davidson alumnus, John McNeely. The Dram- |

jatis Personae has been submitted as follows:

mies gra eee John McNeely |
| Father Daly Wallis Moulding |
Dang sete e oe Soe ee eee Paul Worley |
lamessDYKer-s.502 soos ee George Farrington |
| Fosephine Paris Sarah Elizabeth Motte |

| All these are members of the Little Theatre |
|of Charlotte and have taken parts in plays pre-
sented by that organization. Mr. Farrington ap- |
}peared in their latest production, “Butter and |
Egg Man,” when it was produced at Pine- |
{hurst, N. C. He is director of dramatics in the

| Warden Holt

Davidson College Joins
In Bi-Centennial Affair

Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler, President
of Salem College, Was Principal
Speaker for Occasion

DR. RAYNAL IS HEARD

Four Classes Join in Planting of
George Washington Tree
} pv.

Dafitson College’ culminated its participation
in the nation-wide celebration of the bicentennial
of George Washington's birth with an address
and a tree planting exercise at the college on
the morning of February 22. The principal
speaker for the occasion was Dr. Howard Rond-
thaler, president of Salem College, Winston-
Salem, “N. C.

The service began at 11:15 a. m., in the audi-
torium of the Maxwell-Chamffers Building with
the singing of “America.” Following this na-
tional hymn, Rey. C. E. Raynal, D.D., pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville,
N. C,, led the assembled group in prayer. Fol-
lowing this, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson, presented Dr. Rondthaler.

Dr. Rondthaler immediately gained the at-

| tention of all present by a few witty remarks at

the expense of President Lingle, and he then
proceeded to enlighten his audience upon a most
unique phase of Washington's life. For weeks
previous to his talk, various members of the
faculty had made talks concerning the integrity
and veracity of our great first president, and
had renewed the things usually said of George
Washington at a time like this, and Dr. Rond-
thaler’s message came to the students like a bolt
out of a clear sky, and was greatly enjoyed by
all of them,

By the time we reach Washington's two hun-
dredth birthday the story of the cherry tree is
indeed familiar to every American citizen, and
to have someone swerve from the trite path, so
long trodden by speakers on “Washington,” was
a refreshing treat, and it was deeply regretted
by both students and faculty that time forced
Dr. Rondthaler to close his address at noon, ;

The title of the address ‘was “Washington's
Trip to the South.” The main portion of this
theme dealt with the then stubborn colony of
North Carolina, which remained as a holdout
from the union until 1791. He told all of the
amusing details found in Washington's diary,
in which he paid no great tribute to several
cities of North Carolina, which have ardent
supporters in the Davidson student body. He
pointed out that the North Carolinians took
particular pride in saying that George Wash-
ington had spent the night in their town, when
in truth, there were very few in which he did
not spend the night. One of the most amusing
things in the entire talk was his narrative of
a New England tavern keeper, who placed a
sign in front of his hostelry which read, “The

(Continued on page 6)

Rabbi Levine Speaks of
Jewish Gifts to World

Rabbi Morris Levine, D.D., of the Hebrew
Synagogue in Charlotte, spoke very interesting-
ly the evening of February 16 on “The Contri-
bution of the Jew to Civilization.” Rabbi Levine
has studied at Oxford University and at many
Hebrew seminaries and has lectured extensively.

“The Holy Bible,” says Dr. Levine, “is re-
sponsible for the civilization of today, The Bible
has been and still is a help to science, a model
of literature, and a key to knowledge in gen-
eral.”

He reminds us that Abram was the first man
to show the world a monotheistic religion, that,
while seeking God in the vastness of the great
wilderness in which he made his home, Abram
was assured of the verity of this conception by
God Himself. The voice of God had come to

| Abram while only a lad, and it was at this stage

of Abram's development that a firm foundation
was laid for his religiou§ beliefs from then on.

Dr. Levine deals first with the contribution
of the Jews’ to the literature of civilization.' He
holds before us the Bible as a source of litera-

{ture of the most masterly sort. “The Book of

Psalms,” Dr. Levine informs us, “is translated
into 242 dialects.” He touches upon the beauty
of the Song of Solomon, and upon the prac-
ticability of Proverbs as applied to present-day
times and conditions.

Next, Jewish philosophy was made mention

fund and the giving of a trophy case. The final} Charlotte High School and an instructor in| of. His most outstandirig illustrations of a great

decision will be made in the near future.

English. ‘The Valiant” is under his direction. |

(Continued on page 6)

.
