Sag

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

my

A

| ]
|.

————

‘Muni Death

Ernest H. Graham, '13

Ernest Heap. Graham, 1913 graduate of Da-
vidson, died suddenly of a heart attack in
Goldsboro Monday, March 10th. Mr. Graham
was talking to a friend in the Algonquin Club
rooms in Goldsboro when, without any warning
or indication that he~ was unwell, his head
dropped forward. Physicians were summoned
hurriedly from offices in the building, but they
pronounced him dead of heart disease when
they arrived. He had not previdusly suffered
a heart attack, and there was no indication that
he was afflicted with this disease.

After completing his four years at Davidson
in 1913, Mr. Graham entered the cotton mill
business at Greenville, S. C., and continued
there until 1919, when he went to Goldsboro
in an executive capacity with the Utility Manu-
facturing Company, plywood plant operators.
Though the concern changed hands, Mr. Gra-
ham remained with them until a year ago when
he resigned to enter the plywood brokerage
business for himself. While on a trip through
this’ section last fall, Mr. Graham visited Da-
vdison for a half-hour, spending most of his
time on the football field, a phase of college life
in which he was intensely interested.

Among. the survivors is a. brother, Fred W.
Graham, ’09, of Greenville, S. C.

“Tiny” Is Dead

“Tiny” Graham is dead. To those of the pres-
ent generation that means little, but to those
who played for and against Davidson College
athletic teams between 1909-1913, it'means many
heart-aches, for they know that one of ‘the
gamest athletes who ever played the game has
gone.

He came to Davidson in 1909, a. mere wisp
of a lad but 18 years of age. His nickname was
applied immediately, for the young chap
weighed about 130 pounds. And it was this tiny
boy who made football and baseball history for
Davidson, and who is today considered by many
as the greatest quarterback who ever played for
this institution.

There are others who contend that he was
the greatest all-around athlete who has been at
Davidson, but this might be disputed by others
who point to men who made three letters here.
But even the mere thought of this is a tribute
to the man, for those three-letter men and star
performers of later days have weighed much
over the bare 130 pounds at which Graham
tipped the scales.

Graham had the distinct and unusual honor of
captaining both the varsity football and base-
ball teams at Davidson his Senior year; was
vice-president and later president of both the
“D” Club and the Athletic Association, in addi-
tion to other honors. He broke his leg his
Junior year, but this did not deter him from
participation the following fall, when he “im-
bued the fellows with his spirit of fight and de-
termination,” as the college yearbook for 1913
expressed it. :

Last fall a year ago, Mr. Graham paid his
last official visit to Davidson, and he returned
with other members of the famous 1910 football
eleven of Davidson to celebrate the 20th anni-
versary of that team. It was the 1910 aggrega-
tion that won the first state championship for
Davidson, and it was “Tiny” Graham who called
the signals and piloted them to victories, When
he was asked on his return what stimulated
and keyed his fighting spirit more than any-
thing else, he answered simply, “Being out-
classed.”

Staunch friends at Davidson mourn his death,
but there are hundreds of other friends in the
business and professional world today who re-
member his name and his exploits, whether
they played with him or against him, or whether
they read about him in the headlines of sport
pages.

the Peoples National Bank at Rock Hill, S. C.,
has been made president and treasurer of the
Arcade Cotton Mills, of Rock Hill, succeeding
the president who died a short time ago.

J. Lawrence McNeill, '28, of Raeford, has re-
cently returned from a trip to the Bermuda
Islands. %

John D. McFadyen, ’32, is now connected
with the’ United States Transport Company,
and is stationed on the U. S. S. Republic, now
in Hawaiian waters. The Republic will prob-
ably remain in that territory until the Eastern

trouble. subsides.

ai

Eastern Carolina Alumni
Perfected Organization

Enthusiastic Meeting Attended by 77
at New Bern on March 7—Rev.
R. E. McClure, President

(Editor’s Note: The following account is
only part of the column and a half report
of the Davidson meeting in New Bern,
which appeared in The Sun-Journal
March 8th.)

So successful was the Davidson alumni ban-
quet Monday night at the First Presbyterian
lecture room, with former college students
present from 14 towns of the section, that a
permanent Eastern Carolina chapter of David-
son alumni was organized, with Rev. R. F.
McClure, ’20, pastor of the local church, as
president; Dr. R. S. McGeachy, '94, of Kin-
ston, vice-president, and Gene Booth, '23, of
Kinston, secretary-treasurer.

These officers were named as an executive
committee, to draft definite details of organiza-
tion and plan for annual meetings in different
towns of Eastern Carolina. Approximately 100
alumni reside in the region, it was pointed out.
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson
College, who had addressed an afternoon’ pub-
lic gathering on “Bible in the Schools,” was
the chief banquet speaker and honor guest. He
gave an interesting resume of work being ac-
complished at Davidson College, now with 647
students, and: reported that the institution will
probably finish the year with a small balance.
Though the individual students were said to
he hard pressed financially, they were said to
be studying more. td

Replete with wit and humor and interspersed
with many appropriate anecdotes, Dr. Lingle
told of efforts at the college for ‘building up a
first-class department of physical education in
which all forms of athletics would be integrated.
He said that the public seemed more interested
in the election of a new football coach than in
the naming of a new president. In concluding
his remarks, he urged in sending to the college
the highest types of upstanding young men.
With Prof. R. C. Deal, '01, of East Carolina
Teachers College, of Greenville, acting as toast-
master, there was much more wit on the pro-
gram as handled in his own characteristic and
inimitable style displayed in New Bern on other |
occasions. A high tribute was paid by him to
Dr. J. N. H. Summerell, of Greenville, pastor
emeritus of the local church, oldest alumnus |
present, a member of the class of 1873.

on

While no official report from the New Bern
officers has been obtained, it is understood here
that 77 people attended the dinner there. Making
up this number were alumni of Davidson, par-
ents of the boys now enrolled, trustees of the
institution in that section, ministers of Albe-
marle Presbytery, and Prospective students.

Many of the latter were sons of Davidson
alumni.

Bluefield, W. Va., Alumni
May Meet Next Monday

When The Davidsonian went to press Mon-y
day night, the alumni secretary had not heard
from West Virginia authorities about a pro-
posed alumni meeting in Bluefield, W. Va., next
Monday night. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president
of Davidson, is to. preach in the Presbyterian
Church at Welch, W. Va., next Sunday, and
consented to remain over an extra day for an
alumni meeting in Bluefield. sf

Rev. S. W. Moore, D.D., '93, of Bluefield,
and Rey. Smiley Williams, ’14, of Welch, were
written late last week, with a suggestion that
a dinner meeting be held at which would be
present alumni of Davidson, parents of the boys
enrolled, the Presbyterian ministers of that sec-
tion, and prospective students,

A list of alumni was dispatched with the let-

Davidson Five Years
Ago

March 17, 1927

Hugh Arrowood, of Shelby, was elected pres-
ident of the student body last Tuesday morn-
ing. Bob Kell and Mac King were elected vice-
presidents.

Spike McGee has been selected by the stu-
dent body as head cheer leader for the 1927-
1928 session, winning over Julian Lake.

Ben Wilson, of Marion, has been elected cap-
tain of the baskethall team for the coming year,
and C. C. Carson, of Bristol, Va., was elected
varsity basketball manager. :

In the fall golf tournament, McGill was first;
Wolfe, second; Love, third; Martin, fourth,
and Mills, fifth. The prospects look very good
for a successful season on the links.

Don Wharton and Harllee Branch, Jr., were
selected to represent Davidson on the northern
debating trip. They will debate: William aad
Mary, Gettysburg and Rutgers.

The last issue of the Chameleon will be out
some time in May, according to Mac Austin, the
editor-in-chief,

The Davidson rifle team will be represented
in the national intercollegiate competition by
S. W. Vance, Ramsey, Webb, Gudger and Len-
non.

The New York Alumni chapter of Davidson
held an -enthusiasite meeting in that city last
Friday night. W. P. Anderson, ’07, was re-
elected president; H. A. Johnson, '03, was
chosen as vice-president, and Hadley A. Hill,
‘21, was re-elected secretary-treasurer,

*

Charlie Paddock, the world’s fastest human,
will visit Davidson next fall. He will appear
under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., and will
give a talk to the students on the meaning of
sports.

March 15, 1922

The Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was
ormally installed in Davidson College by the
initiation of the following men: R. E. David:
son, Rock Hill, S. C.; W. A. Gamble, Macon.
Ga.; W. G. Guille, Athens, Tenn.; D. H. Og-
den, Mobile, Ala., and H. H. Smith, Easley,
South Carolina.

Coaches Buck Currie “and Dutch Hepgeveld
are’ working hard with the candidates it for
baseball. Captain Pat Crawford, who has, just
finished a successful basketball season, fs fast
getting into form for the coming season,

Horseshoe pitching is a sure sign of spring
and we've noticed that the professionals are
fast turning out for practice, “Spec” McCon-
nell, Arbuthnot, Bradley, McComb, Mac Beall
and Black are practicing hard. Coach Aiken de-
clares that prospects are good.

Hugh Smith, representing O. D. K., and ac-
companied by Albert Hillhouse, were present
at the annual O. D. K, convention held at the
University of Richmond, in Richmond, Feb-
ruary 16th and 17th.

a radius of approximately 75 miles of Bluefield,
and there are now 15 students in Davidson from
Bluefield and near vicinity. The names of 14
Prospective students, obtained from present me
bers of the student body, were passed along to
the two ministers. It is believed that if the
local men consider it feasible and advisable that

m-

ter. Nineteen Davidson men are located within

a group of approximately 40 people would gath-
er to hear Dr. Lingle. f

tH

|
“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO. Inc.

re
“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Fiumber is in New York, for 129 former stu-

————

Dr. MacConnell Begins
Meeting Series Tonight

Davidson Physician Left Monday to
Fulfill Three*Day Itinerary to
Eastern Cities

Dr. John W. MacConnell, Davidson physi-
cian, left here Monday night for New York
City, where he will meet tonight with the Da-
vidson alumni there. He will also attend alumni
dinner meetings in Philadelphia and Baltimore
before returning to Davidson. Dr. MacConnell
is making this eastern trip at the’special invi-
tation of the New York chapter, the other meet-
ings being arranged on his return trip to Da-
vidson,

The itinerary of the Davidson physician is
New York, March 16th, at the Hotel LaSalle,
30 E. 60th St.,

>

7 p. m.; Philadelphia, March
17th, Hotel Rittenhouse, 22nd and Chestnut
Sts., 6:30 p. m.; and Baltimore, March 18th,
Warwick Arms, 16 E. Franklin St. 7 p. m.

While in New York, Dr. MacConnell will
be the guest of Dr. Algeron B. Reese, ’17, presi-
dent of the New York chapter. S. C. Harris,
17, heads the alumni group in Philadelphia,
and Dr. H. C. Davis, '02, is president of the
3altimore alumni.

Approximately 200 Davidson alumni are lo-
cated in these three eastern cities. The largest

dents of Davidson reside in or near the metrop-
olis. There are 37 in Philadelphia and 30 in
Baltimore. The annual dinner meetings in these
three cities are exceptionally well attended, for
approximately 75 per cent of the alumni are
present at the gatherings.

Walter I. Knox, '22, has been given another
*xcellent promotion, and isenow chief clerk to
he assistant passenger agent of the Chesapeake
& Ohio Railway Company. His headquarters
vill hereafter be in Cincinnati, but he is resid-
‘ng at 3914 Elsmere Ave., Norwood, Ohio.

Dr. E. W. Phifer, '01, of Morganton, has
‘etired as president of the Catawba Valley Med-
cal Society, and at the last meet over which
le presided last week he discussed a paper en-
itled, “Little Things.”

|
|

Alumni Personals

|
|
|
| The number of alumni visitors to the campus
has been materially cut down since the close
of the winter football practices. The only
alumnus seen here last week was J. Linwood
Hall, '31, of Burlington.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of
Mrs. J. R. Simpson, mother of Dr. W. D.
Simpson, ‘98, of Greenville, S. C., and of W. H.
Belk, trustee of Davidson, of Charlotte.

Rev. James T. Pharr, ‘12, pastor of the Cass
(W. Va.) Presbyterian Church, assisted by
Rey. M. R. Atkinson, recently conducted a two-

week evangelistic service during which there
were 52 conversions, 125 reconsecrations, and
1,325 chapters in the Bible read.

Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., "11, of Winston-
Salem, whom it was announced a short time
ago was head of the anti-hoarding committee
of his city, has appointed J. Harold McKeithan,
22, as one of his committeemen.

James H. Henderlite, Jr., ’31, of Gastonia,
has recently accepted a position in the chem-
ical department of the Burlington Dyeing and
Process Company. Robert A. Gilliam, also of
Gastonia, has been with the Burlington concern
for some time.

}
/

Johnston, ’80, for 22 years president of

MEAG
J. Edwin Stroud, ’31, of Goldsboro, was an-
other Davidson alumnus who © successfully

passed the physical examination at Langley
Field for the Army Air Corps. It was an-
nounced two weeks ago that B. R. Lowrance,
31, had passed the examination, which gives
Davidson College a very high percentage of
the number who were accepted. Mr. Lowrance
has already been ordered to report, and Mr.
Stroud expects to receive his orders for the
July class.

Prof. John W. Moore, '12, principal of the
R. J. Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem,
will attend the three-day session of the 48th an-
nual convention of the North Carolina Educa-
tional Association in Charlotte, Thursday-Sat-
urday, and will direct a discussion on special

Kenneth M. Jackson, ‘31, is now doing grad-
uate study in history at Vanderbilt University.

The Winston-Salem Community Chest drive
‘or $140,000, which was headed by S. Clay Wil-
‘ams, '05, as chairman, was oversubscribed in
hree and a half days. In reply to a congratu-
atory letter written him by the alumni secre-
‘ary,.Mr. Williams wrote: “One of our distin-
ruished aay aie soine years ago. . . that
‘here should We only two classes of people in
Winston-Salef—those who help the community
chest and those who are helped by it. Of course,
that statement represented an ideal, but we
came nearer attaining that goal this vear than
ever before.”

W. W. Morris, "92, of Concord, recently at-
tended a meeting of the Southern Cotton Grow-
ers Co-operative Association when it met in
New Orleans. Mr. Morris % a-director of the

pro motions.

A letter from J. W. Brown, ’12, Y. M: C. A.
worker in Rumania, corroborated a recent re-
port in Time that he was threatened with recall
because of the financial condition of the Ameri-
can Y. M. C. A. Mr. Brown wrote that “it
will be a tremendous disappointment if we have
to abandon the incompleted projects and give
up a worthy cause to which we have devoted
years of effort and in which thousands of, dol-
lars have been invested.” He stated that the
problem to be solved was to secure his own
budget, which had been previously provided by
the American Association, but gave no intima-
tion that this could be done.

R. P. Richardson, ‘18, is one of the three
incorporators of The Memorial Hospital, of
Reidsville.

Stockholders in the Carson Realty Company,
of Charlotte, recently incorporated, are James

association,

H. Carson, 16, and McAlister Carson, '13.

f

ta

Davidson Theatre

“BROKEN
PHILIP

FR

.

MONDAY and TUESDAY

WEDNESDAY

“ARE YOU LISTENING?”
THURSDAY

“AFTER TOMORROW”

“WISER SEX”
SATURDAY

“UNHOLY GARDEN”

LULLABY”
HOLMES

IDAY

