fy

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1932

3

-—§-P- O R. T_S. -— - College Calendar
. Dec. 15—Basketball game, Freshmen
Freshman Cage Team to vs. Independence Trust team
: from Charlotte.
Play Ten-Game Schedule Dec. '16—Sophomore Dance, Charlotte
_ _ Armory, 10:00 P. M.
|Independence Trust Team. Will Be | Dec. 17—Sophomore Cabaret in the
First Oppcnent . gym from four until six P.M.
= ophormore Dance._Armory.
% Coach tDoe" Mathis has for tne past two 8:00 P.M. .
m2 | . - ae Dec, 18-——"Y" Vespers, Christmas serv-
Be | “ecks been working hard to whip his Fresh - . : by the students.
oe |inan basketeers into shape for their first | ice by, the studen
BS - . . . Dec. 20—Philanthropic and Eumenean
2\game, Thursday night, with the Independ- .
. Literary Societies meet: at
ence Trust team irom Charlotte. . 7:00 P. M. Yow! off the
The squad has been cut to sixteen men, press: _
= including four candidates fot center, six for Dée. 21-—-Christmas Holiday begit at
forwerds..and six for guards, Those out~} —— 42:30 P. M.

for center arc Burhs, Joe -Johnston. Steph-}
rens, and Benficld. Remaining forward catt- |
caidates are Saaders. Lewis, Dillard, Tipton. Mac Montor Will Be
: "Branton, and VTutaif. The ones competing |

for guards are Parker, Gumby, Windham. '

Here On January 23 |,

oe
especially
ences.

as adapted. for academic audi-

ee ee

iGridiron Stars Turn

_To Other Activities

Now that the 1932 football season has come
to what could be termed.a very Siccessiul
-close, the .gridiron wurriors have turned in
their moleskings, and are prenaring to Iend
their talent to other fields, j

Quite a number, led by Capiain Ruddy
Gardner and ably aided and abetted by such
stellar players at Charlie ‘Pearce, Dewey

_[affairs as they are.

American literature to ascertain whether the

American artist is wholly in sympathy with ;
He admitted that they

were in revolt against present industrialism

but were mevertheless secking to discover

“thé Forgotten Man. In Dr. Wilson’s opin-

ion, the most hopeful part of our present

literary schemes is that America's better

anthors honor lite more than the mere ma-

| chinery of life.

SOPHOMORES PREPARE FOR
THE HOLIDAY SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

'

Hutchins, Buck Milis—totmystaekoretn” es to press, but Jelly Leftwich will fur-

Perey MeKEtrath. Tim Morgan. Joe Morris,
Fred Ogden, Charlie Rives. Julian West, Eb
\Willlson, George Wingfield.. Gene Cannon.!
Fred Wleagie. Billy Flinn, and Charley Low -
ard.» have joined the army of the unem-
ploved -for the present. However. after
Christmas such stellar court stars as Mills,

Hutchins, Morgan, West, and Mackorelf! will |,
.represent their respective fraternities and:

“Red lohnson, Leukel., and Bell.
Once more the Southern, Intercollegiate, 7 In two scrimmages with the varsity,

the;

#, 0 classes, in the intramural basketball league.’
As stated in the Davidsoniau of last week.] yack Wagner star tackle, who was prom-!
i

nish the music, and a complete floor show,

inclnding several novelties, will be presented.
| Retreshments will be served throughout the

evening's entertainment, which will last from

4 to 6: and will be held in the Alumni Gym-

nasium. Black and vellow will be the color’.
schermestor the “35 Night Club.

On Saturday sight, an indormal danee will
be given in the Amory from 8:50 ull 12
o'élock. Several no breaks, will feature this
dance algo,

Tickets ior the dances are on sale by

os

Conierenee has closed its session without Freshman cagets have shown up mighty

—ance -over—tite 2531 season .

considering Davidson's applieation for mem — well.

bership. One, thing oecurred during the
meeting of the Southerm sehools, howeve-.
which rather indicates that Davidsonls next -
“plea jor admission will not be denied. The
| split of the 3-school orgamizatjon into a 10-
team and-a 13-team conference should be to.
Davidsons* advantage.

{

the past decade

teams which pulled out of the
. C., and probably for that reason
have not been admitted before. But
“A Davidson. teams have long been on a
par with the ten teams which remained
in the conference, and—every year more
than half of the Wildcats’
played with schoals which compose the
group. For this reason we think David-
Ss.

games are

son will be in the 1. C.gin another

year.

Had Davidson been in the conference she
would have tied for fifth plaee in the stand-.
ing this year. The Wildcats won twa, tied
one. and fost three games playing against.
S. 1 C. teams. Davidson defeated \o OM.
and W. & L. tied Clemson, and lost to Duke.
Carolina. and N. C. State, which would_give
them a 400 percentage in the standings.

With five lettermen and several prom-
ising Sophomores—to“worle—with;-Goach
“Red” Laird should have a great basket-
ball team this year. Captain ‘Bruce
Peabody,’ Jack Wagner, H. K. Boucher,

——Seniors,and—John—Lafferty and Mack

Holland, Juniors, who made letters last
winter, should show up even better this
year. Despite the prospects, however,
the Wildcats may find it difficult to go
high in the Big Five, since Duke; Caro-
lina, and N. C. State all boast of rep-
resentatives which are among thé best
in the South.

DID YOU KNOW THAT:

Six, jetterven(eom last years teams will
return jor basketball at N. C. State
Notre Dame played betore 4340000 spegiators
ths fait: a 12 per cent inerease in attend-
Brown aad
Columbia played before twice as Inany fans
this vear as they did last year . Connic

Mack. boss of the Philadelphia Athletics. ,Carolina at Chapel Hill.

has a son, Connie. Jr. enrotled ai Dake Gre
versity. He is a candidate for tne vasket-
ball team .. . Monk Younger will coach
basketball at V. P. I. this winter. "When
: Davidson meets V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.,
on February 3, Monk will see players who
“used to try to win for him struggle to de-
~ feat him... .
gan to a tackle position next fail, and try
Cole Windham, star Freshman tackle. at end
~. Jack Wagner, star Wildcat tackle, made
the All-Pika, All-American eleven...
tain Buddy Gardner, Davidson center, was
“just too cute to be left off” All-Beauty
All-American eleven selected by University
- of Southern California co-eds for The Daily

Trojan.

Cap-

DR. J. R. McGREGOR
IS LEADER AT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

works for, has quadrupled her investment
and still demands dividends. Christ answers
—rueh—questions with the Golden Rule. © |
° “Wharis my reason for speaking to you.
thus:” asked the speaker rhetorically.
~ “Forty-two years ago it was said that Amer--
ica- was raising a generation of spiritual,
orphans. We are the ones to bring truth’
and—honor back into the business world. ;
Since Jesus Christ has an answer to every.
question, may we express our desire-to-know
that answer in the words of the text or in
those similar to them, ‘Speak, Lord, for thy

servant ‘heareth.’” a

.conform to the rule changes that haxe been
‘nade since last season.
_says.tooks very good, and hopes_are bright ,

on

cand Marshall's

Coach Newfon may shift Mor--

with Burns and loe_Johnston—looking |
best at the iumping position, whitc Sanders, |
Lewis, and Tipton did some stellar work .at |
forward, and Parker, Cumby, Windham, and,
Red fohason stowed exeedient fort at
guard. - |

Coach Mathis has been drilling the squad
ina few of the iundamentals and in how to

The inaterial. he

for a tine quintet.

Two of the ten games scheduled will be
played before Christmas, with Independenec {
Trust and Belmont Abbey. Two games with
Hickory igh Sehool may be added to the
schedule later,

The complete schedule is*

Pee, 15 - Independence Trust of Charlotte,
here.

Dee. 20- Relwwen:~Abbey=- there.

°

f

‘lof Dramatie Act in his paliye city. He made: ,anees.,

i Mr. Max Montor. well known German actor: inendy .mentioned when the all-state teams
now of New York City, will render a pro-_ came, ont this year, is back at his accus-
gram—at” dramatic. impersanayions ia” bot) omed - post on the basketoall team, with
-Germandh.2 fngtish at 7:30 p. m., Mtonday, -: Captain Bruee Peabods as his ranning mate.
‘January 3, in Chambers Auditorium. All: Peabody, ir-wit! be remenrbered: was clected
imembers of the college as, well as the gen: as Davidsoms best blocking baek for the
‘eral public are invited to be present. _Past season.
Mr. Afontor, who is’ travelling under the Y Diek Whitddld audrPenbby * Stand are ont
auspices and management of the Cari Sechurs | for wrestling. “Tubby” tigate a good show -
Memoriai Foundation .is internationally ling. with the_.earting grapplers last season,
known for -his unusual interpretations of |and “seas awarded his numerals. Dick
drama and poctry Te was born in Vin) ene for the varsity in the unheited

and studied at the leperial Conservatory¢elass, and turned in some good perfonu-

‘niembets of the Sophomore dance commit-_
vee, consisting of Wadsworth, Brown, Weeks.
Norvell, Harris. Rogers. A. C. Rogers. P.
M.. Varnes, 1., Dees, Prosser, Hurst, Yel-
verton, Atwater, Brown, P.. and Phifer, and
may be secured at Ox priee of three dollars
for the set, orginay be gotten at the dance
Yor two dotlars for Friday ight. and a dol-
far and a halé for Satueday aight.
2 The soeial irateraities are all giving ho.use.
patties over the week end, and girls, trom
all over the country will be here. The sra-
ternities have co operated splendidly with
Nie committee, and will hold open house to.
ithe entire student hody during the caming
house party

- These boys shonld- be heard front
Switzerland? ay this year. A. J. Potter is another football:
Mephistopheles in “Faust.” Extensive tours 'man who will bear watehing when the mat '
took him throngh Ausirci ues into.action. lie, too, is a Soph-

i:
Switzerland, with long engageyinents i in Llam-jomare, and made anmerals on the Freshman
burg. Munich and Beriin/’“— squad last season,

The American car of &ir Montor be- . . _ GROUP VISITS QUEENS

gan mine yeats ago’o He “has appeared on|/DR. JAMES S. WILSON, OF (Contindied from page 1)

Broadway in Strindberg’ “Danee of Death, U. OF VA., GIVES LECTURE Volléwing the program a reception was held
(Captain ‘Edgan), in insemis  Rosmerslotm"|” “eee ‘ |} for dhe visiting Davidson men.

hus “debut in Zurich,

EU LITERARY SOCIETY

lan. 6~Salisbtry UWigh School, there. _ | (Rosmer)<“opposite—tharretatene pr (Continued from page 4). Sinee the. date of the next meeting falls
Jan. 10—Salisbury Tigh School, here. witb Walter Master Ruilder™ (title part).; complished at the sacrifice of other desir-|on Tuesday, the day before school adiourns
Jan. 31- Wélmont Abbey, heres wit) Waker Uampden in “Hamlet” (ihe fable qualities.” Briefly the’ speaker surveyed for the Christmas recess. it has been de-
Fe). 2—M. P. C.We there... Ghost), in Los Angeles in ‘tMerchant of ————_—__—_____, cided by the otfieials of the socicty to QOSt-
Feb. 3—Palls Creek. here. va Venice” (Shytock). in Suderman’s “Magda . ; pone the meeting untit some time atter
Feb. 10—Balls Creek, there. L ~(Uhe Pastor). and recently in Eliner Rige’s Phi Beta Kappa Christmas. “
Feb, 16--Carolina. at Chapel, Mu... ‘ “Strett Scene + -
-b. 17--State, at Raleigh. | The. Carl Schurz Memorial Tonndation "= unintentional oversight Sn + ee
|

a

Davidson Wrestlers

Schedule F Five Meets:

Pive varsity wrestling mects have been,
scheduled for the 1933 season, i: was an-,
nouneed by S. V: Daniels. manager. The
schedule this veart is'a dutteuh ene and in-
cludes one intersectional contest. Franklin.
grapplers Sri he inet at Lan: ;
caster, Pa. in the opening meet, Washing.
ton “and Lee. pecennial SourNeri Cénierence
threats, will be encowatered a: Lexington.
Coach Unger has several ood men from

are in Bhiladelphia. - from the, list of initiates into ‘Gamma TU -
pal Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. . “ New Rates |

The principal. Enghsh au-cuber given here Charles Bettis is a Senior this year, ~ : ‘ i
will Le the Assumption of ‘Hannels (Hai y7—, member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social 7 |
‘neles Himmmelfahrt), by Gefhard Maupunann, fraternity, and also of. Sigma Pi Sigma at |

{fn

last year’s varsity. and a good bit of mate-

rial from the 1952. yearling squad.

‘Germany,

has as its aim the development of eyltural
relations actwetn the Uuited States and Ger-
_tnauspeaking — countries, —1t—headquartas | ;

the last isstic of the Davidsonian, the
name of Charles E. Bettis was omitted

U-PUSH-EMS

the acknowledged teading dramatte writer of
suil active at seventy. Phis plas;
‘combines natucale@e Fd romantic elements

MM has as its seene a poorhouse. A four-
teen-year-old girl, whose whole life has been
one of suifering and privation, is brought in
hal: dead from cold and exposnre. The de-
lirious imaginings of the gir! are ai: acted

and Delta Pi Kappa honorary. fraterni-

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

He was inifiated with the five
other students at the meeting Decem-
ber Sth.

lies.

.

a ne

7
Fe ee en ee en

ji
x |
i
yj |
|
a
N
|
|
+

NENA NENRENANENZANE NESE SASIANANE

out on the stage one sees her. déreamspo WE -_ A.
Among the characters are the giri's de- a Lew Stl e Y v p € h t i $ { Mm a s Ss b

0 8.4

“ceased mother. her drunken father the black as gs =
Fhe schedute follows: ange) of death. four white angels, ete, The| The Best Taste i in Gifts” For Christmas 2 NN
Jannary 24.1933. Branklin and Marshall at: jeaucy of her dreams contrasts ‘strikingly | ges pera N it P; . ne te
Caneaster, Pa. ‘ — with the sordid hackeround of the poor-| 92% For. unna y's For pe" ee
Jaitary .26, 1933- Washington and Lee AL; house. ; ; a 3 H Johnston’s Hi Cigarette Case & CS se
Lexington, Va. i Regarding Mr. Mantor’s work, Professor & os. er Candy 5 im kighter” Comb. wh
February 4 . 1933— we al Davidson. Robert—Heendon Fife of Cétumbia Univer. Vas B.. ‘h, cas b Mil: nad h Las. aN
February 1s, 1933—V., Pl at Davidson. ~y sity says: Mr, Montor bas reproduced cnt co Gn Mirco; Sets " Caak Set _ lary ¥
February Z8, 1933. University of North tire plays from memory with a highly inter- KE C irror Jets - aie se RN
b esting dramatic effect. JY regard kis work NG pa) Pocppasts : Ci eee et Ee ty
: NN: igars A
—_—_—aea_al— eee bf . . : 5
NOTICE _ - fo om Dusting Powder Pen & Pencil Sets— ( a
6 , uc = a . , y
Have your shces rebuilt at the Johnson’s Barber Shop | = COLLEGE PHARMACY, “Davidson's SERVICE DRUG STORE vy &
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP “ ; 3 m3
: ; r Out of Five College M G — }
Work done while you wait. Four Out of Five College Men | MW ogy flercrp Christmas = *
Z Come Here ie BN

C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor |{"

vied

Md

MMM

can be done.

N P. H. a ‘KNITTING

a

C0?

[.
_ TLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLE,| *

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can. pay more than HANES costs—but you can ’t get more.
Just try, to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
_Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war —
-- belt. That’s patented and can’t be

Shorts in a variety that will make

to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

Ldillldlldidlddddidllldldllllill oa

o2
lee

AX NPR YR YR RYN AS ANN A RR RRS

a5

i

For the Holiday Social Functions
Gel Your: :

Tuxedo Shirts, Collars, Ties, Handkerchiefs
Reefers. Gloves, Hats, Shoes
——and Formal Jewelry

oa

at

_WEU'S-
~~ DADIDSON
7 SHOP

imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
it easy for the most fastidious

CO., -Winston-Salem, N. C.

MMTV

