C ‘ 4 v
’CATS MEET UPPERCLASSMEN
DUKE SEE DR. VOWLES
, ABOUT RHODES
SEPT. 24 7 SCHOLARSHIPS
Alenda Lux Gbhi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 14, 1932 No. 1

PRES. WALTER LINGLE
LEADS FIRST VESPER
SERVICE OF THE YEAR

Spiritual Growth Should Be Chief Aim
of All Our College Life

MEBANE LEADS MEETING

John Lake and George Bailey Lead
; in Prayer

Last Sunday Y. M. C. Ay vespers were held
as usual in Chambers Building. The speaker
of the evening was Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
president of the college, who?took as his text
II Peter, 3:18, “But grow in grace, and in the
knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
To Him be glory, both now and forever,” and
from I Peter 2:12, “Wherefore laying aside all
malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and en-
vies, and all evil speakings, as newborn babes,
desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye
grow thereby.”

“Mark,” said Dr.-Lingle, “the word ‘grow.’ ”
All of us régardless of our ages want to grow
physically, intellectually, socially, spiritually,

may

’

es-

pecially spiritually. None of us feel that we |

have done more than touch the fringe of a true
spiritual life, of -a— Christian life, regardless of
our ages. Surely, then, a young college man
should want to grow spiritually. Peter ex-
horts us to this in these epistles. Let us take
advantage of the opportunities offered at Da-
vidson, physically on the athletic fields, intel-
lectually in the classroom, socially at the homes
of the professors, which are always open, and
spiritually’ at chapel, church, Y. M. C. A,, and
in the Bible courses. .Indeed there are manv
fields and directions to develop oursel¥es in.

Let us speak of the spiritual side. Peter
says: “But grow in the grace of God,” of
Christ that we may conform to the greatest
ideal: to become like Jesus, in character, in
life, in service, in conduct. How may we do
this? The text says like children, kept free from
dreadful diseases, “Wherefore laying aside all
malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and en-
vies, and all evil speakings.” We shall examine
some of these evils. Malice is bitterness and
hate toward an enemy; envy is the same, only
against a friend; guile and hypocrisy are much
alike, the first is duplicity or trickery, the
other is acting a part. We must veer aside
from the evils as we meet them in our college

life, for the opportunities of coming in contact
with them are numerous,

But growing in grace includes development
as well as elimination of evil. Peter Says:
“Feed on the sincere milk of the world.” And
It seems that this means more than simply to
feed on food of any sort; it means to feed-on
the proper food. Many Christians starve to
death for lack of proper food. They starve
amid plenty of money and pleasure and business.
. The Word of God is the best spiritual food.
Jesus said: “Man shall not live alone by food,
but by every word that proceedeth from the
mouth of God.”

As well as food, atmosphere is needed for
growth. Many people live in the low infected
swampy lands rather than in the highlands, and
they die because they. will not seek the freer
air of the mountains.

Exercise, too, is needed. We must put into
practice what we read—take into our bodies the
good food and air around us by exercise. Oliver
Cromwell once, seeing the silver statues of the
apostles around the walls of Westminster Ab-
bey, ordered that they be taken
minted, and put
might do more g

out, broken up,

ood than as ornaments aro
the walls. We. must ‘not be like the ae
apostles, but get out and obey the Word of
God, develop our souls, minds, and bodies and
circulate the good therefrom: avis >
The services were led by Aflen Mebane
President of the Senior class,
vided by Mrs. Vowles,
John Lake and George

hae

Music was pro-
and by William Hart.
Bailey led in prayer.

Rhodes Scholarships

Members of the Senior class who are
interested in becoming candidates ‘for
the Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford Uni-
versity are requested to confer with
Dr. Vowles early in the semester, pre-
ferably the first or the second week.
If we know early who are to be candi-
dates, the work of the local committee
will be greatly simplified, and the re-
sults more satisfactory to all con-
cerned.

into circulation, where they

Two New Physicians |
Aid Physical Exams.

On_account-of the recent iHness of Dr. J. Wel
MacConnell, two doctors are here to assist in
examining the students as they enter this fall. ;
Davidson College has had compulsory physical |
iesseaiebel Se for entrance longer than any in- |
|stitution in the South. These examinations were |
}begun by Dr. MacConnell in 1908.
| The two physicians assisting in this work
lare Doctors E. D, Apple, formerly of Reids-
| ville, and W. E, Wilkinson, a native of Mebane. |
|Dr. Apple is a graduate of the University of |
| North Carolina and Washington University, St. |
|Louis. He spent two years-as resident surgeon |
jat the Barnes Hospital at St. Louis and he is
|now connected with the X-ray department at }
| Duke Hospital dn Durham. |
| Dr, Wilkinson finished here at Davidson and |
| took his M.D. at Duke University.
| resident in surgery

| with that school. Fe
| Dean W. C. Davison of the Duke Medical
| School has been kind enough to give these men
jleave from their duties, to assist Dr. MacCon-
inell. They are paid by Dr. MacConnell Leth
vidually.
| Dr. MacConnell said: “The compulsory. phys-
ical course under the R. O. T. C. department
and Prof. Pritchett of the department of Physi- |
cal Education is productive of increased physi-
cal vigor, and it is noticeable that each class |
progresses in strength and muscular develop-
ment. Thus the Sophomore class shows great
improvement over the Freshman. The Senior
class averages far above the Freshman.”
Statistics of these examinations will be pub-
lished in an early issue of ‘The Davidsonian.

Frosh Onentanon: Week
Proves Striking Success

He is now |
at the hospital conneeted

ERNEST MILTON

Ernest Milton Assumes
New Position: at Barium

Has Been Alumni Secretary and Pub-
licity Director at Davidson for
Six- Years

Ernest Milton, who for the past six years
has been alumni secretary and ‘publicity direc-
tor at Davidson College, recently resigned his
jdual position here to accept the treasurership
of Barium Springs Orphanage. Mr. Milton will
take up his new duties at Barium Springs Sep-
tember 15th. —He .will-also have charge of pub-
lications at Barium Springs.

New Men Attend Series of Interesting
and Instructive Lectures

On Tuesday evening, September 6th, the first
part of the Orientation program of the Fresh-
men began. Paul Brown, president of the Y, |
M. C. A., led. the devotional exercises, after| or some time Mr. Joseph B. Johnston, su-
which Dr, J. R. McGregor, of Lexington, N_| perintendent at Barium Springs, has been ne-
C., spoke to. the new students on the. subject | otiating with Mr. Milton. Administrative of-
of “Ideals in College Life.’ The following | ficers of Davidson have been aware of this fact,
morning at 8:30 the second of these programs | #nd they have known for several days that Mr.
was given. After the devotional exercises, | Milton would accept this new position.
which were conducted by Dr. H. M. Moffett, |
Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a talk on “Student |
Scholarship,” and Prof. F. K. Fleagle on “Use
of Time in Colelge.” The president of the stu-
dent body, Jerome B. Clark, explained the
“Honor System at Davidson.” Wednesday aft-

Davidson did not have an organized publicity
jor alumni department until the retiring secre-
tary and publicity director returned to Davidson
jin the fall of 1926, following his graduation in
| June of that year, As a student, Mr. Milton

|had handled the publicity of Davidson for two
ernoon the two speakers were Dr. Sentelle, dean lyears, and thus he will close on September 15th

of students,.and Samuel S. Wiley, secretary of |an eight-year period as disseminator of Da-
the Y. M. C. A. They spoke respectively on|yidson news.
“College Regulations” and “Campus Organiza-
tions.” The program of orientation was con- |
cluded on Wednesday when Mr. Jackson, treas- \office at Davidson, Mr. Milton was selecte:
urer, talked to the men on “Handling of Money 1s executive secretary, and in addition to de-
and Care of Property,” and the president, Dr. | veloping the publicity phase of his office, he
W. L. Lingle, on “What Davidson Should Mean as busied himself during the past six years
to a Student.” | with the maintenance of alumni records, the or-
| The practice of the orientation period for the ganization of local alumni chapters throughout
| Freshmen of Davidson was instituted some time |the country, reawakening the interest of older
ago here. Its purpose is to help the new stu- alumni and retaining that of recent. graduates,
dent.to get acquainted with the college and to|#"d planning programs and entertainment for
offer helpful suggestions to those men who are | the alumni on the special occasions of Home-
confronted with difficulty. |Coming and commencement. When Mr. Mil-
As usual they were very much appreciated ton took over this office he started off with
by those who entered the college. The inter- Practically nothing and built it up to a very
est and enthusiasm of the new men was shown | ¢fficient and resourceful organization. Mr. Mil-
by the remarkable attendance. jton has filled his position-exceptionally well and

|his resignation leaves a place that -will be hard
ee |to fill. During his six years of service, Mr.
M. A. Degree Abolished
S \
From Davidson Program

When it was decided to establish an alumni

| Milton was the dean of alumni secretaries of
icolleges and universities in North Carolina.

| “Ernest,” as he was better known then, grad-
| uated from Davidson College in the class of

The last master of arts degree has been con- 1926, When he-graduated from: Davidson. he
ferred by Davidson, for the faculty of this ™|had during his four years accumulated many

stitution has decided to confine the degrees |) nors among which are the following: Re-
awarded each commencement to the bachelor | porters’ Club; library assistant, ’24; Spanish

of sciences and bachelor of arts. This action | Ctyb ; Golden Quill; class historian; Freshman-
was passed by the Davidson faculty this year, | Sophomore debating team, ’24; president C. E
to become effective during the 1932-1933 schol - Training Class, ’25: “Davidsonian” staff D5.
eee ell 26; Junior-Senior debating team, ’25; “Y”

Davidson therefore becomes an. undergradu- Cabinet, ’26; first vice-president North Caro-

ate institution in the strictest sense of that lina Collegiate: Press Aésociation, '26: Omicron
word. Officials of educational agencies and Delta -Kapna : aGham

boards have commended Davidson in the past

for its adherence to the policy of remaining an| *“Quips and Cranks” of 1926 said of him: “A

undergraduate) liberal arts college, without any | student of ability, an outstanding journalist, a

attempt to delve into the graduate field. The|Christian gentleman, a true friend. Ernest is

latest action of the Davidson faculty will bring| well known on the campus and is most re-

further approbation from, educational leaders spected by those who know him best. He is a
leader in literary circles and takes a prominent

and authorities.
(Continued on page 5) . part in the religious life of Davidson.”

“Y” Gives Reception
For Freshman Class:

On Monday night, September 12th, at 8
o'clock, the Freshman reception, sponsored an- |
nually by the Y. M. C. A., was held in the
banquet hall of Chambers : Building.

The receiving line, as in past years, was com-
posed of the members of the faculty and their
wives, together with all of those connected with
the administration of the college. Refreshments
of sandwiches and punch were served by the |
young ladies of the town. The hall was at- |
tractively decorated. |

The Freshman reception has for many years:
been carried on by ‘the Y. M. C. A. and was |
this year under the supervision of Sam Wiley, |
The “Y” takes a very ac- |

the new secretary.
tive part in welcoming the Freshmen, to. the
school in the registration period and for this |
reason is well suited to. furnish them with an
carly bit of social life on the campus. The
reception furnishes an excellent opportunity for
the new men and the faculty members to be

come acquainted, and as well gives the Fresh-
men a chance to meet the member's of their |
class. For these reasons it is regarded as al
valuable and entertaining function.

Although this is the largest social function for
the Freshmen which is sponsored by the Y.
M. C. A,, At inter-
vals of a week or two, small groups of IF resh-
men are invited to the “Y” social center, located
in the Eumenean Literary Society hall, for in-
formal “feeds.” By this method, the work of

it is hy no-means the last.

welding the Freshman class into a compact
group and promoting friendship on the campus
is carried further.

Davidson Swimmers Win

Meet at R.0.T.C. Camp

Manson Presented Trophy for Individ-
ual Score and, Championship
Relay Team Given Cup

>

The swimming contingent of Davidson Col-
lege, composed of members of next year’s’ Senior
class attending the R. O. T. C, summer en-
campment at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala.,
won the annual swimming meet of the camp
by amassing a total of 27 points, and A, M.
Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla., Davidson student, |
was high scoring individual competitor, accord-
ing to an official bulletin issued by the camp.
This fact is unusual, since Davidson does not
swimming pool or swimming

have cither a

team.

Ten institutions obtained two of more points
in the meet, in the following order: Davidson
27: University of Florida 22;  Vresbyterian
College 11; Clemson 7; The Citadel 6; Wof-
ford 3: University of Tennessee 3; Riverside
Military Academy 3; N. C. State 2, and the
University of Georgia 2.

The Davidson relay team, composed of Bruce
Peabody, Charlotte; A. M. Manson, Jackson-
ville, Fla.; C. R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn.,|
and B. B. Taylor, Jf., Baton Rouge, .La., won
that event, with the University of Florida sec-
ond, and, Presbyterian College third. Manson
took first in the 50-yard back stroke swim, and
second in the 200-yard event. Taylor won first
in the 50-yard free style, and W. H. Coble,
Douglas, Ga., won the 200-yard swim to ac-
count for Davidson's 27 points.

Davidson's winning relay team was presented
a cup, Manson reétived a trophy as high point
competitor, and a gold and silver medal for. his
first and second places, and Taylor and Coble
each were awarded gold medals for their first
places.

Davidson's track team also took third place
at the camp this summer, Bruce Peabody and
Bill Flinn featuring. Peabody is not a candi-
date for the track team at Davidson, but showed
up exceptionally well in the contests. Presby-
terian College won the meet, with the Univer- |
sity of Florida second.

According to reports brought back to David-
son by the officers, the Davidson representatives
disported themselves in excellent fashion in
other affairs of the summer encampment. |

One of the pleasing developments in indus-
trial America is the recognition that beauty
pays.—Otto H. Kahn.

Sheer necessity—the proper parent of an
art so near allied to invention—Righard B.
Sheridan.

ito give any definite information

| West brothers, Caton, and others.

WILDCATS PREPARE IN
SECRET FOR OPENING
_ GAME SEPTEMBER 24th

‘Mentors Fail to Give Definite Informa-
tion as to Prospects for Season

SOPHS SHOW UP WELL

Newton and McEver Round Out New
System of Plays

With the first football of the season
less than ten days distant, Coaches “Doc” New-
ton and Gene Mcléver have taken the 1932 Da-
vidson football squad behind closed gates for
seeret scrimmage and workouts. In prepara-
tion for ad game with Duke University on Sep-
tember 24th, Newton and Mclver have been
putting their squad of 50 men through. stiff
workouts since the beginning of training, on
September Sth, in order to round out a system
of play which is entirely new to the’ Davidson
team.

The Wildeat mentors have so fi

game

hésitated
‘to pros-
pects for the ,season, intimating that almost
everything depends on how well the players as-
similatesthes football knowledge which will be
tendered them between the present time and
September 24th.

The team this year suffers the loss by: grad-
uation of Don King and Don McQueen in the
backfield; Raker, Johnson, agd Brown, ends,
and Conway and Mathis, gtards. However,
the varsity receives very promising material
from the unusually*good 1931 Freshman eleven,
of whom several will be making bids for first

“as

string positions.

Coach Newton will have more trouble with
his line than will McEver in the backfield. Mc-
Ever’s chief difficulty will be in selecting his
first string quartet from the numerous backfield
candidates. The three returning lettermen’ in
the line ave Jack Wagner and Dick Whitfield,
tackles, and Captain Buddy Gardner, center.
The three returning lettermen in the backfield
are Buck Mills, Charlie Pearce, and Bruce
Peabody.- This seems to be a slender founda-
tion upon which to build a team, and necessi-
tates the use of much new material this season.

Among the men fighting for line positions,
in addition to the veterans, are: Morgan, Mor-
ris, and Potter, euds; Hand = and
tackles; Rives and Ogden, guards, and Thomp-
son, McElrath and Norfleet, center. Lee, cen-
ter on last year’s Freshman team, is on the
sidelines recovering from an appendicitis opera-
tion, but is expected to be in action later in the
season.

For backfield positions, addition to the
veterans, will contend the following: Flinn,
Wingfield, Hutchins, Mackorell, Fleagl-. the
Ross. iti the
and Wilson, in the backfield; are good
prospects who haye come to Davidson from
junior colleges.

The coaches expect to have a heavier team
than that of 1931, with a line averaging about
180. pounds, and a team average of about 175
pounds. This estimate is probably based on
the use of “Tubby” Hand as a defensive guard
and offensive tackle. At the beginning of prac-
tice, Hand tipped the scales at 262 pounds.

Since the coaches are unwilling to discuss the
outlook for the season, it remains to be seen
whether the 1932 eleven will carry on the
precedent set by former Wildcat teams.

Siewers,

in

line,

I had a very strange and affecting boy-
hood; very curious and fascinating. In win-
ter I went sliding. In summer I went swim-
ming.—Sinclair Lewis.

You always glorify the home in the same
proportion that it doesn’t exist—Earl Bert-
rand Russell.

As good be out of the world as out of
fashion.—Colley Cibber.

Football Schedule

Sept._24—Duke at Durham.

Oct. 1—W. and L. at Davidson.

Oct. 8—Wofford at Davidson.

Oct. 15—V. M. I. at Lexington.

Oct. 22—Citadel at Charleston, S. C.

Oct. 2i—Clemson at Davidson.

Nov. 5—N. C. State at Charlotte.

Nov. 12—North Carolina at Davidson
(Home-Coming).

Nov. 24—Wake Forest at Davidson
(Thanksgiving).

