THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

“OF HUMAN BONDAGE”

Book Review by
Fred Hellegers

Of Human Bondage.
New York. 1915,
Of Human Bondage is a highly realistic ac- |

count of a hum-drum existence. Life is a bur-
den to Philip Carey from the first day when,
his mother and father dead, he goes
with his unsympathetic aunt and uncle. Mor-
bidly sensitive, he soon becomes a slave to the |
fear that people will find ‘his club-foot ridic-
ulous and finds forgetfulness of a real world!
in the new-found world of books. But his. guard- |
ians, unable to understand his mental complexes,7
send him off to Tercanbury,
in hope that superior
all difficulties.

G. H. Doran Company,

|
|
|
|
|
|
to live

a school for boys,

instruction will iron out

Tercanbury, however, can offer only more
human cruelty, torture and less kindness;
even when Carey has the opportunity to
win a scholarship at Oxford, he chooses to
get away from the life that has been slavery
for him by removing to Berlin and Heidel-
berg. These cities bore him. He returns to
England. Again he finds himself a slave to
unhappiness, to restlessness, to the desire
for an abundant life and he thinks that free-
dom waits for him in Paris in the pursuit:
of art. He has already discovered that he
is unfit as a student, and ‘through a year’s
apprenticeship as a bookkeeper that he is
unfit for business, and now art or no art,
adventure or no adventure, he finds that he
is destined, if he remains in Paris, to become
the servant of mediocrity. Still running from
bondage, he seeks a better channel for self-
expression in the medical profession in Lon-
don. There he meets Mildred, Mildred a
contemptible waitress in a cheap restaurant,
a girl of no attainments, physical, mental, or
spiritual. Love becomes another chain which
prevents Philip Carey from achieving any-
thing worthwhile, which causes him to
squander years at a hospital unnecessarily,
his meager fortune, and later his health.

A’ well-chosen
the novel.

is carried

An artist friend of

figure throughout
Philip gives him |

one day a Persian rug of intricate design as an

explanation of the meaning of life, but which
for Philip is for years a hopeless enigma. After
years of experiences of the most. bitter kind, |
the answer comes to him. “He thought of his |

desire to make a design, intricate and beautiful, |
out of the myriad, meaningless facts of life: had |
he not seen also that the simplest pattern, that |
in which a man was born, worked, married, had |
children, and died, was likewise the most per- |
fect? It might be that to surrender to happi- |
ness was to accept defeat, but it was a defeat |
better than many victories.” The ARRUACETIENE|
of the author is that happiness lies in the simply |
ordered life,.in the sane, healthy,
of the present. :

As one reads this novel it strikes him that
the setting is almost as arbitrary and as|
artificial as that of Reade’s “The Cloister and |
the Hearth.” The scene changes from Eng-|
land to Germany, to France, and back to|
England and then almost to Spain for a
really good reason. And at no time does |
the reader feel that he has been at the alkeas |
mentioned. They are a background for the|
story, but they are unreal. There is an at-|
mosphere sensed, but never actuality. There |
is none of the glorious detail of Galsworthy |
or Bennett or Walpole.

Some of the characters are well treated; |
others merely support the plot like the minor |
characters in Macheth. The descriptions of the |
guardians are brief and shrewd. “Mrs. Carey |
arranged that her husband should win, because |
he did not like losing.” As a reward for good
behavior, Mr. Carey let Philip have the top of |
his egg on Sunday. On the other hand, the |
sketches of Philip's German and French friends |
are hazy and blurred. Cronshaw, Hayward, |
Lawson are so many names. When Maugham |
becomes interested in a character, he paints that |
character with clear-cut lines. Miss Wilkinson, |
the amazing old maid, is caricautred like a
Dickens character. Miss Price, the dirty young
woman of the brown dress, is easily remem-
bered. One learns to love god old Athelny, the
London clerk who recites poetry, loves flowery
speech, and tells of the glories of Spain while
sitting in the very heart of London dirtiness.
Sally, his robust, healthy, sane daughter, is
treated in bold outline. She represents the only
example of pure animal vigor in all the char- |
acters of the novel. Mildred, who with Philip
takes the center of the stage, is treated with |
great care. She is seen in her conversation, in
her actions and her reactions to be the epitome |
of all that is base in woman or mankind. The |
reader wonders at Philip's mawkish love for
her, his long-enduring patience. It is difficult |
to formulate any conception of him as a dis- |
tinct character. He is, it is true, a rolling stone: | |
He is the ordinary, unglorified individual whose
wishes are constantly frustrated, whose goals
are never attained.

For what it sets out to be and do, “Of
Human Bondage” is excellent. Certain pas-’
,8ages remind one of George Meredith. But
the general treatment of the setting, ‘the
plot, the characters and W. Somerset

intelligent use |

“SAFE IN HE
smoked LUCK

statement, so

THEY'RE DOTTY ABOUT DOTTY

Dorothy Mackaill's great-great
something-or-other was Bobby
Burns, the famous Scotch poet, and
she’s as popular in Hollywood
as golf—'nother Scotch import.
Her favorite pet is a Brazilian
monkey. You see the monk in the
new FIRST NATIONAL PICTURE,

and not a cent was paid for her

sweeping bow and saying,
“Thanks, Dorothy Mackaill.””

Copr., 1932, The American Tobacco Co,

“Give me Lucky Strike»
every time”

“My throat is all important to me. No harsh irritants for
yours truly.Give me LUCKY STRIKE every time. And pat
yourself on the back for your new Cellophane wrapper
with that tab which makes the -_. so hth to open.”

“It's enaeendl”

Your Throat Protection — against irritation -against cough

LL.“’ Dorothy has
IES for six years,

we're making a

"and Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE— 60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip
of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

rad

SS vipecenaueassessicsaueteepensaneserticitenieriieeen es

COE TOMATO DRIPETEUE CUE SEBEBELE

Maugham’s style hardly merit the serious
consideration of this work as a future classic. |

FREDERICK HELLEGERS. |

universities men have been outste sain in some, ei liere Dean Nicolson asserted that the same old |Commission Sets Higher

lco-ds in others.

—<———————

‘Same Old Controversy:
Ed and Co-ed Intellect.

No Co-eds Appear Among First Eleven

Ratings in Test at Chicago
University

Chicago—(IP)—Another chapter was writ-

;ten in the controversy over who is smarter, the
|

man or woman student, when a test conducted

by the University of Chicago in its freshman
classes showed’ that in the first eleven ratings
not one co-ed appeared. |

This, in spite of the fact that women out-

numbered men in the 750 freshmen who took
the examination. First place went to William
K. Traynor, 19, of Chicago, son of William
T. Traynor, vice-president and director of |
| Swift & Co.

Knowledge didn’t count in this examination, |
|for it was a psychology test to measure intel-
lects. For instance, an artificial language was
supplied with the instructions to translate a
passage from it into English. Simple problems |
in arithmetic) which were not quite so simple |
after all made up another part.

The test by no means settled the question,
however, for in other tests in other colleges and

| Columbia, Mo.—(1P)—Prof. M. H. Cochran
lof the history department of the “University. of
| Missouri, author of a new book, “Germany Not
this letter from William

Emperor of Germany:

Guilty,” received
Hohenzollern,

“Sincerest compliments and warmest admira-
for your brilliant ‘Germany
in which you deal Prof. B.
There is not the slightest doubt about
who were the real culprits that started the
World War. They stand arraigned before the

once
tion

jing blow.

| Slang

well say

Not Guilty,’ |
Schmitt a wither- |

tribunal of history awaiting her verdict. The |
world crisis the Allies are suffering from is |
the punishment Providence is meting out to}

them for their crimes in 1914 and at Versailles the

in 1918.

throughout the country
There was a period, she said, when college stu
dents used to set the

seem content to imitate.

words prevail

pace, while now. they

across with something
“KO,”
declared,

Until they can.come
better “OR”
“yes,”

than and they might as

she in effect.

New York.
signed by
the S. S. President Harding left here last week
with Dr. Mary FE. Woolley, president of Mount
A. Swan-

(IP)-
than

Bearing «peace petitions

more a million peace’ workers

and Senator Claude

States

Holyoke College,
both of

disarmament conference.

the United delegation to

son,

Several thousand persons, representing virtu-

The ex-kaiser’s greeting was written in Eng- ally all the organizations in this country work-

lish on the back of a post card. Professor
Cochran is a graduate of Harvard and has been

a member of the faculty here since 1928.

Students and Slang
Northampton, Mass.—(IP)—College
dents, once past masters at the creation of new
slang words, are now mostly imitators in that
respect, according to Dean Marjorie Nicolson
of Smith College.

Dean Nicolson is no enemy of slang, which,
she says, is accepted as a natural part of our
language, even by scholars, because it is brief
and pungent.

In a recent chapel talk to the undergraduates

stu-

i
|
|

ing for the end of war, togk part in ceremonies
just before the liner sailed.

While Dr. Woolley is to represent the coun- |
try and the colleges officially at the
ence, college students of this country
represented by James Frederick Green,
“cover”

confer-
will be
of Yale, |
being sent to the first three weeks of
the conference by the Intercollegiate Disarma-
ment Council, and the American Student Chris-
tian Movement.

Green, who also sailed last week, is the first |
college student éver to represent his group at
such a world event. He plans to send from |
Geneva a series of articles to be written from |
a college student’s viewpoint especially for col-|
lege student reading.

’ of the Association of

Standards in Athletics

Ten Recommendations Made by Ath-
letic Commission for Higher Stand-
ards in College Athletics

(IP)—Recommendations — for
especially

Cincinnati
higher standards in college athletics,
football, made by the commission on athletics
American Colleges, were,
in short:

Shorten the season to six or seven games.

Eliminate pre-season practice.

Ban subsidizing.

Abolish recruiting and proselyting.

Reduce coaches’ salaries to the general fac-
ulty level.

Return the game to student management.

Abolish drudgery in training.

Eliminate training houses entirely.

Schedule only competitors of equal -strength.

Educate alumni to respect well-developed ath-
letic programs rather than lop-sided stress on

one sport.

Moscow-—(I1P)—An outline of Soviet Rus-
sia’s new five-year. plan has been announced. It

| includes :

A spéedier rise in living standards than un-

|der the first five-year plan.

Technical reconstruction of industry, trans-
portation and agriculture.
Increase the output of machinecy by at least

(Continued on page 6)
