NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 14, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT

Editor-in:‘Chief
A. M. MANSON iness M

L. W. LARDY....-..-. Managing tor
A, -F,- SCHENCK. i ditor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing tor
JACK WILLIAMS Managing ditor
ODI CASALI Athletic itor
./E, LAKE.......22. Exch ditor
y W. WHITE... Feature Editor
13-285 GA MIB DES cusicivewusdvewsacdscassdadacgusstue Feature Editor
D. D. McBRYDE As te Editor
R. L. McCALLIE ee A iate Editor
Cc. F. MYERS Associate Editor
Bie Bir SUGGiis coce ce acces aecl ca pee csudea aes. Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. feast SOds Poaduousesscecsece Assistant Business Manager

As, Hy MANSON eeiecccc cc cu less, Assistant Busi M
ALVIN olicitor
H. B: DANIEL olicitor
J. M. olicitor
G. L. ONCitOTr
W._P. olicitor
. R. TA olicitor
A.C; olicitor
kV olicitor

|

t: x ta ae 7 Heeeient
Ss, ice-President
LEWIS GREGG... Secretary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN jj L. McCLINTOCK

R. H. ALDERMAN V. L. McILWINEN

G. E. BAILY E. F. McPHAIL

D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL

B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN

. E. BOWERS Cc. E. NORVELL

. E, BOYD E. L. POWELL

. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON

S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS

J. B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE

G, L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON f

Tage HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C. HENRY K. D. EKS

vf A. HUNTER W. R. WARD _.

. E, LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON

T. F, WOOD i W. WHITE

W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

SEPTEMBER 14, 1932

Those who know how to do a thing do not find

it difficult; those who find ai thing difficult do
not know how to do it.

—Chinese Proverb.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The exceedingly large registration this year is very
remarkable in view of the fact that the depression
is still very much in effect, and attendance in many
colleges and universities throughout the country has
fallen off to a marked degree.

D.

The abundance of material makes our prospects for
a successful football season loom brighter than they
have‘in some time. Too much should not be:expected
from the team, however, since we have the most

difficult schedule which we have had for several sea- .

sons, and it is not easy for two new coaches to: in-
stall a different system of football in just one year.
D.

The decisive victory of Ellsworth Vines, Jr., os
Henri Cochet of France in the finals at Forest -Hills
last Saturday may mean the passing of the tennis
supremacy of the world from France to the United
States. Few thought that the slim American could
win from the first ranking player in the world.

D.

A rather large number of Davidson students had
the opportunity and pleasure this last summer of
viewing the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. All

‘who did attend the games will long remember this
_Sreatest of athletic events.
—————_p—_____

Those members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet who had
an opportunity to attend the retreat which was held
last Saturday and Sunday on the Catawba River re-
port an excellent time and are entliusiastic about
plans for this year.

——p

_The Davidsonian staff takes this opportunity to
welcome the new members of ‘the faculty
up their Work “here for the first time.

: —D.

Have your picture taken for the Annual as early
as possible. It will save you trouble later on in the
year and will help lighten the work of the Annual
staff immeasurably.

ee ») es

With the opening game in football with Duke less
than two weeks off, interest will be growing with
great rapidity. We hope that a large number of stu-
dents will be_over in Durham to support the ’Cats.

SSS)

The Faculty Directory will appear in the David-
sonian in the near future, and we advise all. Fresh-
men especially to preserve this in oyder to. know
where the faculty members live. They are always
anxious to receive students in their homes.

—— |) es
TO THE CLASS OF 1936

Our first word to you, the members of the
present Freshman class, is one of welcome.
For most of you this is a new phase of life,
and you will live a life here for four years
which will be different from any other four
years you have ever spent or shall spend here-
after. This is essentially true of college life
in general throughout the country, but espe-
cially so at Davidson.

The first month of college is naturally be-
wildering to the Freshmen, but the upperclass-
men will do all in their power to make it easier
for you, and: we hope the readjustment can be
made as quickly as possible. :

who take 1

You will find that friendliness pervades the
campus here. All Freshmen are required to
speak to every member of the student body,
and this habit is retained by the members of
the student body in the upper elasses also.
This fine custom causes the members of the
student body to be more friendly to one an-
other, and is one of the first things any out-
sider notices when visiting our campus. The
quicker and more spontaneously each member

. of the Freshman class can pick up this habit,

the more quickly will he enter the life that is
truly representative of Davidson.

Davidson College has a nation-wide reputa-
tion for having a student body of gentlemen,
and we urge each one of you to keep in mind
the fact that you are. a Davidson man, both
while you are on and also off the campus.
This is a great hefitage, and we are sure that
this class of ’36 will do its share to uphold
the reputation of Davidson and strive to carry
it to even higher levels. ;

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES

At this time in the college year the thought
uppermost in the minds of many of our_stu-
dents, both Freshmen and upperclassmen, is
the question of becoming connected with some
fraternity on the campus. This article is di-
rected mostly to Freshmen and is to be taken
generally, and is not to be applied in any spe-
cific case. Some of the new men have a fairly
good idea of the full meaning of becoming af-
filiated With a fraternity, but in many cases
very little is known about the subject.

The different fraternities take time to select
the mén whom they desire, and the same care
should be taken by the individual men in con-
sidering the different groups on the campus,
Two weeks is an extremely short time for the
fraternities to become familiar with the differ-
ent men whom they are entertaining, or for
the Freshmen to learn all the men in any one
group, but you should not arrive at your ulti-
mate conclusion by any snap judgment, or
what you may have heard about any group
before coming to college. A person will not
be equally fitted to.enter just any group, and
a mistake may change the whole complexion
of your college career. Study the.situation
as any problem, make up your mind to the best
of your ability, and the result will probably be
very favorable.

The expense involved in becoming a mem-
ber should be looked into, for in some in-
stances embarrassment has been the result for
both the man being rushed and the fraternity,
because some obligation could not be met.
This should be fully considered before becom-
ing connected with any group.

To those men who because of financial or
for other reasons do not affiliate with any
group at bid day or thereafter, you will find
that a.Davidson.man_is a Davidson man first
and a fraternity man secondly. We pride our-
selves at Davidson on our friendliness to each
other as well as to outsiders, and as Davidson
is a very democratic college, the highest posi-
tions in a great many instances have been held
by men who are not members of a social fra-
ternity. Although social fraternities are a
benefit to many men, they are a hindrance to
others, and many times they loom too large
in the eyes of Freshmen...Some men lose sight
of the essention aim for which they came to
college and consider their college career a
success after two weeks’ time when they have
pledged some fraternity.

Joining a fraternity has opened up great op-
portunities for many men who are abla to make
the most of them, whereas it has proven a/pit-
fall to many others. Consider all angles wise-
ly and sanely before taking any step. “If at
bid day you do pledge some group, remember
that you were taken in to benefit the group
and not merely as an ornament.

wr Y VESPERS

~~ Davidson College, being under the direction

of the Southern Presbyterian Church, has al-
ways required the members of its student body
to attend certain religious functions. There
is one service, however, at¢which the attend-
ance is not required, and which is very pop-
ular with students on the campus. This is the
Y Vesper Service held every Sunday after-
noon after supper. The hour is most con-
venient and does not interfere with the church
service later on in the evening. The upper-
classmen know the value of attending these
services, because no one attends who does not
so desire, and as a result all are in a very wor-
shipful spirit.

The services are under the direction of the
Y. M. C. A. here’at Davidson, and in the past,
men 6f the highest caliber have been obtained
from all over the South to speak before the
students, and plans have been made to procure
excellent men for this ‘year.

sult a great many men in different walks of
life come to Davidson each week. Among
these we, have also had’many members of our

own faculty to speak to us from time to time.

To the Freshmen who have not yet been
to one of these services, we urge you to attend
as they offer an opportunity for worship. pe-
culiar in that most of the Speakers are not of
the ministry and the attendance is entirely”
voluntary. Y

These men are .
not chosen from any one group, and as a re-

o

|

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

The Republic of Haiti will be rid of United States’
intervention sooner than it has up to this time ex-
pected. According to the treaty with Haiti in 1916,
the United States was to withdraw its military organ-
ization from Haiti by 1936, but with the signing of
the new treaty, this withdrawal will be completed by
December, 1934. In place of the marines, who are
now stationed in Haiti, a United States military mis-
sion will be on the island for the purpose of training
a native guard. This, too, will be withdrawn when
it is found that the natives are. sufficiently trained to
guard themselves. Because of the fact that $14,150,-
000 worth of Haitian bonds are out, the United States
will direct the financial side of the republic until these
will be retired. American intervention in Haitian
finance will also protect the interests of American
securities. This intervention will take the form of a
Fiscal Representative and a Deputy Fiscal Repre-
sentative nominated by the President of the United
States. and appointed by Haiti. It is hoped that every
phase of intervention will be withdrawn by 1942.

Mount Everest, the highest mountain in the world,
and as yet unclimbed, will be tackled next year by
a party of the English Royal Geographical Society
under the leadership of Hugh Ruttledge. Ruttledge,
because of his age, will probably not. be allowed to
attempt the last stage of the climb to the as yet
unconquered summit. Mount Everest, in the Him-
alayas in Central Asia, is 29,002 feet, or over five
miles high. ‘

Miss Viola Ilma, a young Quaker girl of New
York City, is making plans to publish a magazine

for the youth of today. This magazine will not have

any contributors over thirty years of age, thus, try-
ing to. present the thoughts and reasonings of the
youth of the present day. Among the articles she
wants to publish are the views of a West Pointer on
what makes an ideal girl, the ideas of the private
secretary of an important business executive, a dis-
cussion of whether voting is a duty, and an Indian
prince’s impression of American girls. Miss Ilma has
finished high school, has had several magazine con-
Bit si published, and has been on the stage.

There are a great many “rackets” in use now, many
ways of getting money from unsuspecting citizens,
but one of the newest is the “share expenses auto
trip racket.” This system has on the surface all the
marks of a perfectly honest transaction. (And many
of the systems are really honest.) ,The worst form
of the racket is for‘a°dtiver to advertise for a load
of passengers to go to a distant city, say from New
York to Miami or Chicago, collecting his money be-
fore the trip, and then leaving his passengers while
they are stopping for dinner or for the night. The
victims of this racket have no way to recover their
money or prosecute the racketeer. They are mierely
left stranded, often without sufficient money to pay
for a trip home.

Another method of working this racket which is
not as extremely dishon€st, ‘but which has a big risk
attached, is that of following out the agreement, but
making it very risky for the passenger. The lack
of insurance makes the trip less expensive, but with
very little safety precaution taken, by the driver.
The driver either advertises for himself or is con-
nected with an agency which provides passengers.
They are collected and given instructions which are
necessary for the trip. These include the command
that the passengers shall, if, questioned by officers,
speak of themselves as “friend§ of the. driver who
are going with him, sharing expenses.” \,They are
told to deny the fact that they have paid the driver
any money, and to prevent the proof of the payment,
they are given no receipt.. Thus, the passengers start
for their destination in a car with no paSsenger trans-

> . . . os
fer license, no insurance, and with no receipt for -

their fare. The cars usually used in this racket are
very old Packards, Cadillacs, or Lincolns, the names
of which give an atmosphere of comfort and speed
to the advertisements. They are just about worn
out and it is hard to make them stand the strain of
the trip. They are not insured, so the passengers
can collect no damages in case of accident. If the
car breaks down, the passengers are marooned with
the car until it can be fixed. Accidents are very
frequent, because the cars are pushed at their maxi-
mum speed in order to have them compete with
railroads and busses. The drivers are always tired
out and therefore are often unfit to drive a car, espe-
cially at high speeds. for long lengths of time.

It is extremely hard for the government officials to
control the practice, because it is impossible to stop
every car on the highway to find outiif it is racket-
eering. And even if the car was stopped, there would
be no way to prove that the passengers were not
friends of the driver, sharing expenses with him on
a trip. Surely there is nothing unlawful about that,
and there are a great many people who travel that
way in pleasure and safety.

The bus and railroad companies are extremely wor-
ried about this way of travel. They are carefully
supervised by the government and are forced to take
every precaution and responsibility for the safety of
the passenger. The racketeer has none of this re-
sponsibility. As a result, he can give cheaper. rates;
The legitimate companies have a-slight margin of
speed over the racketeer systems, but the extra ex-
penses of bus and rail are enough to make up for
the slightly slower speed of the racket driver. This
is @ very serious problem which can best be met, by
the public. If they refuse to use that form of travel,

. Moffatt McConnell uptown surrounded by~a
crowd of listeners. He was telling about his trip to
the West Coast. Somebody asked him if he saw
the Olympics. “Sure,” he said, “I had dinner with
them.”

. a party who told me that John Drake is in
Germany. He has been working on boats this sum-
mer and wrote one of my agents he got on the
wrong boat and was in Germany at the time school
opened. The latest is that he is waiting for the boat
to sail for America.

... George Barnes and Hartman Eager in trouble
the other night. They were having a friendly argu-
ment and got to the point where they were ready to
talk about a wager. I say talk, because they were
both broke. In walked a lordly soph and on seeing
the trend of events he assumed the role of a member
of the student council for the moment. George had
a mental picture of what would happen to him and
imagined himself catching a train for home. In fact
Hartman and George both turned a trifle pale. The
situation became less tense when they realized that
it was a practical joke and nothing more. But, I
hear that George Washington Barnes hada night-
mare that night.

. more boys having their rooms done over. They
never have heard of the readjustment or so-called
“depression.” I know it must be nice to have freshly
painted walls and floors and we just wish we could
afford to do the same for ours. ‘

... Prof. Kimbrough around the place looking like
he stepped out of a band box. I wonder if he ever
read those books he bought from that pretty little
book agent who was here last spring. Prof. Goldiere
and Ernest Milton were sale-proof, but I healgl that
the math prof. felt that the books would be benefi-
cial even though they do not contain a binomial the-

orum or a single geometric progression.

. Aleck Schenck and Joe Wadsworth dining with
two of the prettiest Charlotte girls at the College Inn
Friday night. They didn’t notice me, they were so
busy looking at their beautiful companions, but I saw
them and I’m going to try to meet the blonde. So
Aleck better watch out. I’m a wonder with the
women.

... Hal Harris visiting his alma mater, He has
just returned from a summer abroad which was his
graduation present. You ought to hear him tell about
the places he visited and the things he saw. Travel’s
so broadening. He went everywhere and saw every-
thing and had a corking good time.

... The father 6h Freshman come in the office
to enter his son in college. After counting the money
he turned it over to our efficient treasurer, Mr. Jack-
son. “That’s right,” said-the treasurer. The father
replied, “It ought to be, we counted it till we nearly
wore it out.”

... A Freshman talking after one of the speeches
given at the orientation program. Our president, Dr.
Walter Lingle, had spoken about spending money
wisely. The Freshman said, “There isn’t any need
for me to worry about spending money. There are 11
children in my family and spending money is the least
of my worries.” And while on the subject of money
we will tell about the elevating force of the depres-
sion we heard about. It is claimed that if nothing
else it has taught, lots of people to pronounce a three-
syllable word.

... Charlie Rives waiting at the P. O. to go to the
show with Buddy Gardner who was being detained
by a dame in g;-parked car. Red Stewart walked up
and said, “Who's that girl with Buddy? He ought
to duck her.” “Duck her,’ Charlie said disgustedly,
“he ought to drown her!”

. . . Somebody ask Parson Peabody why he didn’t
go to the Olympics as he planned. Parson claimed
that after he got as far as Alabama he decided if he
walked to Los Angeles he would be too tired to
climb the fence, so he gave up the idea of going at
all.

. . . Raymond Harrison displaying the very latest
in college clothes-at Miss Minnie’s. Raymond moved
to. Lexington, Va., but will be back every third week
to cater to his distinguished clientele here.

. . . This is a note of warning. Don’t do anything
you wouldn’t want written up. If you do it will be
too_bad—though it will not be little Tip Poff's fault—

I told you about it.
TIP POFF.

the racket would soon stop. The only trouble is that
many honest) drivers would be forced to stop their
business and add their names to the list of unem-
ployed. But why figure on this sort of solutionas
long as there are people who will use a thing be-
cause it is a few cents cheaper, regardless of quality
or safetyin their using it? It is a question, like all
the other rackets, which has not yet been solved.
