THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

BACK THOSE
“ALL-AMERICANS
SATURDAY

al

-THE SPORTS PARADE

BEAT THOSE
BLUE IMPS
FRIDAY

Davidson Varsity Cross
Country Runners Defeat
Winston-Salem Harriers
Freshman ‘Runners Win Close ‘Race

From Winston-Salem High
~ School, 24-31

On last Saturday, the Davidson
country teams showed their heels to Win-

cross-

Carolina’s 12-0 victory over Davidson
Saturday was not expected, but neither
was it surprising to the Wildcat follow-
ers. A Davidson victory was hoped for,
and in the face of the State-Davidson
game a week ago, indications were favor-
able. Carolina followers believed at the
time that the Tar Heels would topple the
*Cats by two touchdowns and the vic-
tory was no surprise to them.

Despite Davidson’s defeat, the graduates
went.-home—with—satisfaction—that-—Coaches
Newton and McEver have done a great deal
of work in one season at Davidson, and with
the feeling that inside of two years the
Wildcats will be one of the South’s leading
teams.

Against Carolina Saturday the Wild-
cats looked like a different team from
the one which played against State in
Charlotte a week before. The life and
action which was present in the State
game was lacking in the Carolina game.
This lack of animation may be attributed
to either over-exhaustion or failure to
keep training. We are inclined to be-
lieve that the Wildcats were sluggish
against Carolina because they had put
all they could against State and had
worn themselves out.

Carolina was able to go against Davidson
because Coach Collins hadwso many re-
serves at his disposal. He used) no less than
three sets of backs in Saturday’s game
Whenever one backfield failed to gain, an-
other was rushed in. This permitted Caro-
lina to have a fresh backfield throughout
the game.

Phipps and Shaffer, substitutes, were
the leading ground gainers for the after-
noon, collecting 62 and 61 yards, respect-
ively. Johnny Mackorell with 47 yards
was next in order. Phipps also had credit

_.for_throwing Carolina’s only completed
pass, while Mackorell threw three of
the four completed by Davidson.

Captain “Buddy” Gardner made his first}

appearance since he’ was injured in the Duke |

affair and played a great game while he was
in there. The Wildcat leader performed with
his knee bandaged, and battled Carolina’s
great center, Underwood, on even terms until
Julian West relieved him.

Coach Laird’s Freshman team contin-
ued to show their characteristic scrap-
ping.spirit in holding William and Mary
College, Norfolk division, to a scoreless
tie in the Virginia city last Friday. The
Kittens bring their season to a close this
Friday when they meet Duke’s undefeat-
ed Blue Imps on Richardson Field.
Coach Unger’s “All-Americans” will fur-
nish the Saturday afternoon excitement
this week-end with Wingate Junior Col-
lege as the opposition. Come out and
give Davidson’s unsung gridiron heroes
your support.

Results of Davidson’s

1932 Opponents

DUKE 0, N. C. STATE 6.

W. & L. 7, West Virginia 19:
WOFFORD 6, Catawba 13.

V. MoI. 0, Richmond 7.

CITADEL 0, Presbyterian 27.
CLEMSON 18, Georgia 32.

W. FOREST 20, Carson-Newman 6.

tto 36.

ston-Salem runners in a closely fought meet.
The Varsity runners passed the Winston-
{Salem ‘All-Stars on the regular three-mile
course, which started on the Concord road
and finished in front of the stadium. George
Gullette showed up in a surprise finish to
win first place with the time of 17 minutes
and 56 seconds, and was followed closely
by Hubert Morris. The final score was 19
The order of those finishing was as
follows: Gullette (D), Morris (D), McFad-
yen (D), Morrow (D), Trivette (W), Lein-
back (W), Brimley (W), Ebert (W), Wood-|
side (D), and Moore (W).

The Freshman team met a strong Win-
ston-Salem High School quintet of runners
who gave them a good fight before giving
way to a stronger Davidson team. Frazier
again. stepped out in front with his usual
speed to lead Billy Merchant who took a
good second, Holden, Sanderford and Kenny,
all of Winston, sprinted in in’ élose order,
before Shuford, Glass and Foy could break
up their attempts for a victory. The final
score was 24 to 31. The qualifying runners
came in in the following order: Frazier (D),
Merchant (D), Holden
Foy (D), Flint (W), Patterson (W).
the way, which necessarily slowed
their time. The Freshman time was 11 min-|
utes and 7 seconds for the two-mile course.
| This race finished the Varsity schedule for
jthe season, and they will rest until spring
| track begins. The Freshmen have one more,
;meet this fall, which will take place on!
Latinadage November 24th,

at Davidson.

Volley Ball meuriey

The volleyballers of the different classes
have for the past -week been pawing the
cowhide across the net in fine style, to play

each class in the intramural tournament.
The Senior and Junior teams having more

‘lexperienced players are apparently better

than the lower class men, the Sophomores
look good at times, however.

In the first games the. Seniors, captained |
by J. C. Pennington, humbled the Fresh-
hen, while Lee West was leading his Soph-
omore team to a victory over the Juniors
Then the Seniors downed the Sophs, and
Captain Owen Ravenel with the Junior team
beat the Freshmen. To wind up the first
half of the series the Juniors and Sopho-
mores made their triumphs two all by lick-
ing the Seniors and Freshmen, respectively.
| This leaves the Seniors, Juniors, and Sopho-
|mores in a tie for first place, which should
|make the second half very interesting.

The standings:

Won Lost
SOn Gis nee re eee ee ee 2 1
NUINIOLS Soares ac seaee so se a ee 2 1
Sophomores: s=:-2-=<-s<=._---2<== 2 1
|Breshmen seesos cosas 0 3

Immediately after this play-off there will
-be an—inter-fraternity elimination tourna-
ment,

Reserves Will Meet
Wingate Jr. College

Coach J. W. Unger is engaged in marshall-
ing a football team which will meet Wingate
Junior College in an “All-American” game
on Saturday, November 19, This team will
be composed of men from the varsity re-

serve.. The game will be played on Richard-
son Field, and is scheduled to start at 2
o’clock.

At the present time Coach Unger is some-
what shy of material, having only four men
to play in the backfield. The entire team
will be approximatély only 15 in number.
Despite this handicap, it appears as though
Wingate Juniors can expect to receive a
licking at the hands of Doc» Unger’s team.
‘It is hoped that Sam Bernardo, flashy back,
will be able to play, although he was injured
last Tuesday.

Wake Forest plays will be run against
Wingate in the coming contest, and consid-
erable unorthodox football will be used to
put scoring punch into the game.

(W), Sanderford |
(W), Kenny (W), Shuford (D), Glass (D),}

| when they will)
{meet the High Point High School runners

Finishes First Round |

off the first of a two-game series between |

Smilin’ Parson

BRUCE PE.

Bruce Peabody, defensive quarterback
of the Wildcat team, is one of the rea-
sons that Davidson has kept the play in
enemy territory in most of this season’s
games. On the offense the “Smilin’ Par-
son” has been used almost entirely as a
| blocking back, despite his mere 155
Peabody, a Senior, is captain
of the 1933 basketball team, and also a
member of the baseball team.

4BODY—BACK

| pounds,

The runners had a strong headwind all |
down |

Wildkittens Battle W. & M.

| Braves to Scoreless a Tie

| Freshmen Pile Up Ten First Downs to
Opponents’ Two

The
|folk division of William and Mary to a score-
Hess tie on muddy Bain Field at Norfolk, Va.,
last Friday, November 11.

In the first half, Davidson received the
kick-off but failed to gain ground. Punts
were exchanged, with Pittman kicking for
the Wildkittens. The William and Mary
Braves tried passes but to.no avail. Verbe
with his end runs and reverses, and Burns
with his passes, helped Davidson to keep the
ball in the territory all of the first
| half.
| In the second half, the Wildkittens again
peti asat the-offensive, They advanced the

| ball to the 6-yard line as the third quarter
ended. The ball was shifted to the muddy
end of the field. Then Pearce, Davidson
halfback, caught a pass in the flat but stipped

Davidson Freshmen played the Nor-

jrave’

‘| because of the mud and the ball went over.

In first downs Davidson had a distinct su-
periority, piling up ten against two for Wil-
liam and Mary. Stars for the Braves were
Maxey and Hawkins, backs, and Walker and

White in the line.. Cathey and Windham,
Davidson's tackles, played their usual good
game.

Despite the score, it was a moral victory
| for Davidson. The Braves, always a strong

|team, had previously beaten the V. P. I.
Freshmen, an unusually strong aggregation,
13 to 0.
Statistics
CAROLINA-DAVIDSON GAME
Caro. Dav.
First downs -------------- 12 7
Yds gained from scrim.-_-_-- 235 113
Yds. lost from scrimmage 14 14
Passes attempted ____------ 6 16
Passes completed ---------- 1 4
Passes incompleted __------ 4 12
Passes intercepted -------- 1 0
Yds gained from passes -_-. 13 59
Net yardage gained from
passes and scrimmage -_234 168
Number of punts --------.- 11 13
Yardage of punts --------- 362 511
Average length of punts __. 33 39
Yards punts returned -_--- 109 5
Yds lost by penalties ---___ 70 30
Fumbles ---<-------------- 2
Own fumbles recovered -.. 1 1

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C..A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

|

Carolina Downs

Davidson 12-0

Before Season’s Record Crowd

Running Attack Led by McCaskill and
Woollen Brings Victory to
Tar Heels

CAROLINA ENDS STAR

Woollen Returns Punt 62 Yards for
First Score of Homecoming

Game

Consistently outplaying the Wildcats, the
University of North Carolina Tar Heels won
a well-earned victory last Saturday on Rich-
ardson Field, 12 to 0. The Tar Heels were
just two touchdowns better than the ’Cats,
and the score tells the story of the game
rather completely. Carolina’s twelve points
came on a touchdown in the initial canto by
Woollen, and another in the final period by
Shaffer. Lassiter failed to, add the extra
point on both-attempts.

The superior running attack of the Tar
Heels was noticed immediately, when Mc-
Caskill and Woollen began ripping wide
holes in the Wildcat line. Davidson backs
occasionally got off for good runs. Mackorell
and Pearce got through a couple of times
in the first period, but the Carolina line
always held, and Davidson was forced to
punt. Here alone did the Wildcats show
a superiority, Pearce and Mackorell | out-
booting the-highly-touted Carolina trio, Mar-
tin, Woollen and Burnett.

Carolina coaches can give mitch of the
credit for the victory to their excellent pair
of flankmen, Brandt and Walker. The stel-
lar pair on the wings stopped everything
that came their way. Too much credit can-
not be given to the play of McCaskill and
Croom, who tore the Wildcat forward wall
to. shreds, showing exceptional drive in every
crack they took at the mass of red jerseys.
The famous punting «strategy of the Tar
Heels, that worked such wonders against
State, failed to loom during the
the punting of Burnett and Woollen
pearing particularly streaky.

Although they lost by a good two touch-
downs, the ’Cats did not lack their stars.
As they always have, the entire ’Cat eleven
fought hard, although they did not rise to
the usual heights before the annual Home-
coming crowd, However, they had played
bang-up ball all year, and something of a
let-down was to be expected. Nevertheless,
Davidson showed some speedy backs and
some rugged linemen. George Wingfield
gave the ’Heels plenty to worry about, once
getting away for a 27-yard gallop. Then,
too, there was the elusive Buck Mills who,
put into the game in the dying moments,
turned in some of the most spectacular play-

afternoon,

ap-

speed merchant sold out around right end
for a first down, and-then standing far be-
hind his line .of scrimmage, he let go a pass
to Morris for a 26-yard gain! Howeyer,
Davidson's advance was stopped here, and
Buck’s able work was to nouavail. Charley
Pearce, Johnny Mackorell, and Bruce Pea-
body all played their usual fine games. In
the line, Buddy Gardner, playing with his
knee strapped up, and seeing action for the
first time since the opening game, played a
fighting brand of football at center, and Jack
Wagner also showed up exceptionally well.

The Wildcat attack suffered a crushing
blow, when Eb Willson, star fullback, was
injured on the first play, and had to be re-
moved from the game. Hutchins played
exceptionally well, his blocking and tackling
especially being above ‘reproach. However,
the spectacular running of Willson, which
was. witnessed in the State game, could not
be replaced.

Carolina got going in the first quarter
and was never seriously stopped or threat-
ened by the ’Cats in this canto. Towards
the .end-ef the period, Charlie Woollen took
one of Pearce’s punts, travelling with its
usual low trajectory, took off for the goal
line bellind perfect interference, made quick
tracks over the 62 yards, and crossed the
last white mark standing up. Hanes Lassiter

‘failed to convert from placement.

' Following this Davidson displayed the best
brand of ball that they showed throughout
the entire ball game. The ’Cats made three
consecutive first downs on some pretty run-
ning by Wingfield, Mackorell and Pearce.
Mackorell then passed to Morris for a nine-
yard gain, and then ran off tackle for a first
down on Carolina’s 16-yard stripe. Here the
Blue line tightened, and the half ended with
the ball in Carolina’s possession in their own
territory.

Shaffer
for

and Phipps started things
Carolina the third quarter,
through the Davidson line for good gains.
Davidson braced here, and halted the drive,
and took possession of the ball, thus ending
the offensive pyrotechnics for the third pe-
riod.

In the final frame, the Tar Heels“ started
a drive from Davidson’s 47-yard line. Phipps
hit left tackle for 11 yards and a first down.
Then Shaffer found a hole 22

going

in going

and raced 22
vards before he was brought down. Shaffer
and Phipps alternated at cracking the Da-
vidson line in a drive up to the 8-yard-tine.
Here Shaffer took the oval and went over
guard for the last score of the game. Las-
siter again failed to convert from placement.

Here Coach McEver rushed in his gang
of speedsters, and the pony backfield got

ing of the afternoon. To begin with, this (Continued on page 6)

g - 7)
SEE THE STAR DIRECT
EVERY ‘THURSDAY «.. |
NORTOTI: ’ ‘

B. O. RAVENEL Gye | !
Student Representative j ) }
b a
1
. .
For CThattksqiving :... }
2 : i
PIGSKIN GLOBES by PowacS
ROmftlHE COLLEGE WAll \
\
C sae ( i
t ' ‘ ;

BEAU BRUMI
IN SOLID COLO} s «. |

