STUDENT BODY
BANQUET TOMOR-
ROW AT 6 O'CLOCK

The Davidsonian

““ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SENIOR
SMOKER
TONIGHT

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 27, 1932

No. 27

DR. THOMPSON OPENS
FIRST SPRING SERVICE |
AT SUNDAY Y VESPERS

Speaks on “Temptation to the Right”
in an Inspirational Sermon

MUSIC GIVEN BY DUET

Mrs. Pritchett and Mrs. Vowles Ren- |
der Sacred Vocal Selection |

At vespers last Sunday, Dr. W. T, Thomp- |
son, professor at the Union Theological Sem- |
inary in Richmond, delivered a most interesting
and inspiring talk on “Temptation.”

The service was opened by Bill Rule, after
which -Henry McFadyen read: a portion of |
Scripture from the 26th chapter of Matthew.
Following this, Bill Lea and Charlie Moore
offered short prayers. Special music was ren-
dered by Mrs. N. G. Pritchett and Mrs. G. R.
Vowles with Miss Hattie Thompson accom-
panying at the piano.

Dr. Thompson, after having been introduced
by Henry McFadyen, announced his text to
be, “Watch and pray that ye enter not into
temptation. The spirit indeed is willing but the
flesh is weak.” ‘He then proceeded to explain |
temptation, stating that there are two kinds of |
temptations, one which draws us to things. that |
are sinful and wicked, and the other which
draws us to finer’ and nobler things, the latter
being the one which he would treat during the4
course of his talk. It is these kinds of tempta-

tions that urge us to live better and more per.
fect lives.

Going further the speaker said that there |
were several things that inspired these tempta-
tions for doing right in us: First, our mothers
who had given us our starts and directed our
feet aright during our childhood; next, our
fathers, who had not guided us the same as
our mothers, but had supported us and helped
us out of the evil temptations that assailed us
in later years. Then Dr. Thompson sa\\ that
our brothers and friends are often sources of
temptation for the better. We admire some-
times a bother or a friend so much that we at-
tempt to follow the good qualities in him that
we may have such qualities for ourselves, And

(Continued on page 5)

Mr. W. S. Lee Talks

on Hydroelectricity

Is Initiated Into Sigma Pi Sigma After
Address

On last Thursday evening a large crowd
gathered in Chambers Auditorium to hear a
lecture by Mr. W. S. Lee. Mr. Lee is the
head of his own firm of consulting engineers
and is consulting engineer for the Duke Power
Company and several other large companies.

Ed Bettis, president of the local chapter of
Sigma Pi Sigma, asked Dr. J. McD. Douglas
head of the physics department here at David-
son, to introduce the speaker. Dr. Douglas in-
troduced the speaker as one who had raised
himself above the crowd as an inventor, engi-
neer, business man, lecturer, and writer. That
Mr. Lee is a leader is shown by the fact that
during the past two years he has been presi-

dent of the American Electrical Engineers As-
sociation.

Mr. Lee took as his subject, “Doing a Com-
mon Thing in an Uncommon Way.” He said
that the great feats of today are studied out in
a quiet place before they are enacted. When
we hear about a bridge being rebuilt on the
main line of one of our great railroads where
a trdin passes every few minutes, and yet not
a train is even slowed, we think what a won-
derful world we are living in; yet Mr. Lee says
that all such feats are, in a large measure, ac-
complished in the quiet of an office before the
actual work ever is begun.

He used the blackboard to illustrate a proj-
ect at Lake St. John on the Saguenay River
in Canada where he built a large plant for the
Canadian government. He showed a moving
picture of the building .of a large dam farther
down the |same river where he erected ‘an
obelisk vertically and dynamit it so that it
would fall into its place as’ part of the coffer
dam. Although the obelisk weighed several
tons, he figured within two inches of the place
it would fall, allowing for the water to break
the fall. A sensitive recorder showed that the
water absorbed 96 per cent of the force of the
fall. He showed another moving picture of a

(Continued on page 5)

New Student Store
Managers Appointed

At a meeting of the Student Store Board ,on
Wednesday, April 20, Brooke Allen, Wilming-
ton, N. C., and Leslie Thompson, Gastania,
N. C., were elected managers of the Student
Store for the coming year. These men, both
members of the rising Senior class, were elected
from fifteen or more candidates. It has not
yet been decided what the duties of these men
will be, but the Student Store Board will an-
nounce later what positions ea¢h_ will hold.
Thompson and Allen will take charge of the
business on May 1.

Leslie Thompson is a member of the Minis-
terial Fellowship and has taken an active part
in Y. M. C. A. work. Brooke Allen is a mem-
ber of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and
was elected varsity cheerleader for next year.

The Student Store Board, who elected the
Student Store managers, is composed of the
following: M. W. McGill,.L. S. Raker, D. S.
King, R. W. Gorrell, N. G. Speir, and A. G.
Montgomery.

Famous Organist to
Appear Here in May

Mu Beta Psi Sponsors Famous Artist’s

Recital at Davidson

Charlotte M. one. of the
famous women organists in America, is to ap-

Lockwood, most
pear before a Davidson audience on the eve-
ning of May 5, at 8:15 o’clock. Miss Lockwood
comes to Davidson under the auspices of the
Mu Beta Psi musical fraternity. The mere an-
nouncement of Miss Lockwood's coming speaks
for itself. Music lovers of Davidson and Char-
lotte will be delighted to have the opportunity
of hearing Miss Lockwood before she returns
to Europe for further study. Adult tickets will
go on sale at the extremely low price of 50
cents. Student tickets will be 25 cents. These
prices will be appreciated when it is recalled
that at Miss Lockwood's last appearance in
Greensboro, the house was sold out at $1.50 per
ticket.

Miss Lockwood's life reads like a romance.
At the early age of 11 she was the church
organist in her native town. After her gradua-
tion from Salem College, she went to New
York City as a pupil of Dr. Clarence Dickin-
son, and within two years won the- degrees of
Associate and Fellow member of the American
Guild of Organists. She has spent considerable
time in Europe studying with Vidor in Paris.
Her associations with this great teacher, who
is generally considered the foremost organist
and composer of organ music in the world,
meant much to hery.A testimony of the high re-
gard which Vidor had for her and her work
is evidenced in the following: At the comple-
tion of her lessons with Vidor, as Miss Lock-
wood was telling him good-bye, he presented
her with his own photograph, bearing the auto-
graph, “To my. colleague for whom I have high
admiration.” It goes without saying that Miss
Lockwood was delighted with this salutation,
for she had only dared hope and expect that
Vidor would address her as Pupil.

An extract from a leading newspaper of Mon-
treal, during the Canadian Musical Convention,
is typical of Miss Lockwood's enthusiastic re-
ceptions :

“The event of the evening was a recital by
Charlotte M. Lockwood, guest recitalist repre-

(Continued on page 5) =,

Student Body Banquet

Tomorrow night in Chambers Build-
ing the annual Student Body Banquet
will be held. Preceding the banquet, the
installation of the 1932-1933 officers of
the student body will be held in the
auditorium. This will mark the begin-
ning of the new regime.

Following this exercise, the students
will go down to the banquet hall, and
it is here that the elaborate banquet
will be held. It is planned that the
boarding h , as is tomary, will
not serve the evening meal Thursday
night, but will contribute some food for
the banquet in order to make the ban-
quet fee as nominal as possible.

It is important that every man be
present at this meeting to let the new
officers know that the entire student
body is behind them for the coming

year:

Pan-Hellenic Council For

1932-33 Elects Officers
With Mullis President

W. A. Mebane, Jr., Is Chosen as Sec-
retary and Treasurer of

Council
FINALS TO BE PLANNED

New Council Plans Banquet in Honor
of Old Council

At a recent meeting of the newly elected
members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, W. F.
Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., was elected
president of the council fo 1932-33. W. A.
Mebane, of Burlington, N. C., was elected sec- |
retary and treasurer, Bill Mulliss is the repre- |
sentative of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity
and Allen Mebane is the representative of Phi
Gamma _ Delta.

The new council are» Fred L. Smyre, of Gas-
tonia,, Beta Theta Pi; William F. Mulliss, of
Martinsburg, W. Va., Pi Kappa Alpha; D.
Meade Bernard, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., Kap-
pa Alpha; Alex G. Little, Jr., of Valdosta, Ga.,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Fred B. Fleagle, of Da- |
vidson, Kappa Sigma; Robt. H. Alderman, of
Florence, S. C., Pi Kappa Phi; W. A. Mebane,
of Burlington, Phi Gamma Delta; George C.
Neal, of Ruffin, Theta Upsilon Omega; John
G. O'Keefe, of Bluefield, W. Va., Phi Delta
Theta, and J. W. Lee, of Ronceverte, W. Va.,
Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Ti |
The old council will have charge of the one

remaining social function of the year, but no
definite have yet been made for the
“Finals,” which are to be held in Charlotte. At
the same meeting of the new council, the mem-
bers decided to give a banquet in honor of the
retiring men. This banquet will be held at “The
Hearthstone” in Charlotte, some time during the
“Finals.”

plans

O. D. K. Tap Day to
Be Held May Third

Initiation Is to Be May 9 With Dr.
Smith as Speaker

Next Tuesday, May 3, the Delta chapter of
Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fra-
ternity which recognizes leadership in student
activities, will hold its annual spring services
in chapel. The formal initiation will be con-
ducted Monday night, May 9, at 6:30. Follow-
ing the ceremony, Dr. Henry Louis Smith will
make an address in Chambers Auditorium. A
banquet will be held in honor of the new men
immediately after Dr. Smith’s address.

Jack McKinnon, president of the local chap-
ter, will preside at the exercises Tuesday morn-
ing.

A member of the faculty will speak on the
aims and ideals of the fraternity. At thé con-
clusion of this address the® “tapping” begins.
The ceremony is unusually impressive and dis-
tinctive. As the president taps the gavel, each
student member rises successively and goes down
into the student body, tapping the man who
has been issued a bid. The one tapped signi-
fies his acceptance by following the man to the
platform.

Dr. Smith, who will make the address in
Chambers after the secret initiatign Monday
night, May 9, is a former president of David-
son from 1901 to 1912, and is now president-
emeritus of Washington and Lee University.
He is a charter member of the Alpha chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington and
Lee and has long since been interested in
O. D. K. work. After his graduation from Da-
vidson in 1881, Dr. Smith held the presidency
of Selma Academy for five years. Immediately
upon the completion of graduate work at the
University of Virginia in 1886, he came to Da-
vidson as’ professor of physics. In 1906 the
University of North Carolina gonferred upon
Dr. Smith the honorary degree of doctor of
laws. He is a well known lecturer and was at
one time guest of the British government and
the King of England when he presented a
Washington statue to the English people for
the State of Virginia.

The student body is cordially invited to attend
Dr. Smith’s lecture in Chambers Auditorium.

Every year some outstanding speaker has been
chosen to present this address to the newly
initiated men, and to the student body at large.
The organization feels that in securing Dr.
Smith as speaker they have obtained a man
who should prove to be not only interesting but

highly stimulating.

Myers Selected As |
Editor of Handbook’

Charles F. Myers has recently been selected
as editor-in-chief of the Wildcat Handbook for |
1932-1933. Robert Glasgow is to work with
Myers as business manager. They stated that |
they had already begun work on the twenty- |
fifth volume, which will be the next and latest |
issue of the handbook.

The following are members of the staff who |
will aid in compiling data for the book: W. T.

Thompson, Alee Schenck, Ody Casali, James |

White, Jack Williams, Lyman Clardy, and W.
M. Thompson.

The handbook will be published in June. The
last issue of the book was dedicated to C. R.

| Pritchett, but as yet it hasn't been decided to

whom it will be dedicated. This will be decided
at an early date by members of the Y. M. C. A.
Cabinet. As has always been the custom, a
copy will be sent about three weeks previous to
the opening of school to each member of the
incoming Freshman class. This little book has
always been very helpful to the beginner in
helping him to become acclimated to the school,
It is not only helpful to Freshmen, but it is
also very valuable to upper classmen, as each
issue contains much new information that is in-
dispensible to them.

Managers of Campus
Publications Elected

Those Chosen Are W. C. Thompson, |

W. A. Mebane and Arthur
Ross

The Publication Board, in a recent meeting,
selected the managers of the three
campus publications for the coming year. The
men selected were: W. C. Thompson for “Quips
and Cranks”, college annual; W. A. Mebane
for “The Davidsonian,” college weekly, and
Arthur Ross, Jr., for “The Yowl,” humor mag-
azine.

These men were selected from the assistant

business

business managers and assistant:circulation, man-
agers of this current year and are members of
the rising Senior class.

W. C. Thompson during
year as assistant circulation manager of “Quips
and Cranks.” He did a great deal of work in
connection with the photographic department of
the annual, and is decidedly capable of handling
the responsible position to which he has been

served this past

elected.

W. A. Mebane is affiliated with Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity. He was assistant busi-
ness manager of “The Dayidsonian” this year,
and an extellent man for his new position. He
is vice-president of the Junior class, president-
elect of the Senior class, manager-elect of the
varsity football team, and on next year’s Pan-
Hellenic Council, of which he is secretary-treas-
urer.

Arthur Ross, newly elected business manager
of “The Yowl,” won his position over a host
of able candidates, and should prove himself a
good financial manager of the young humor
publication. He belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity, and is manager-clect of the Freshman
football team.

The predecessors of these recently elected
business managers are all well known men about
the campus. Thompson, in assuming the man-
agership of the annual, succeeds Bob Gorrell, re-
cent manager of football and an important fac-
tor in other campus extra-curricula activities
and honors. Mebane will fill the shoes of P. M.
Conway, wrestling captain, member of football
team, and likewise participant in other impor-
tant campus activities. Arthur Ross will take

over the responsibilities vacated by F. G. Jen- |

(Continued on page 5)

Senior Smoker

Tonight at nine o’clock the Senior
class will hold its last smoker for the
year in the Chambers Banquet Room,
where a plate supper will be served.

At this meeting plans for commence-
ment will be made, and the officers for
the Class Day cxercises, namely, vale-
dictorian, salutatorian, poet, and orator,
will be elected.

A novelty program, consisting of
songs, skits, etc., has been planned by
the program committee, and all of the
Seniors are urged to be present as this, |
is the last meeting that this class will |*
hold as students.

SENIOR CLASS ELECTS
W. ALLEN MEBANE AS
PRESIDLNT NEXT YEAR

|New Class Leader Is Outstanding in

Other Campus Activities for
Coming Year

EIGHT MEN NOMINATED

| Other Officers Will Be Elected in Near
Future

©,

| I the recent Senior class elections, W. Allen
| Mebatie, of Burlington, N. C., was named presi-
dent on the third ballot. The list of nominees
| presenter Mebane, Bill Flinn,
| Ed Guerrant, Bob Glasgow, Bob MeCallie, Le-
jland McKeithan, Charlie Norfleet, and Bruce
| Peabody, After the first run-off the following
iwere left to be voted on: Mebane, Peabody,
| Norfleet, and Flinn. The third ballot presented
j the names of Mebane and Peabody.

| to the glass was:

Mebane is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta
ocial fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi honorary Span-
ish fraternity, and holds the following outstand-
ing positions for next, year: business manager
of The Davidsonian, varsity manager of foot-
ball, and secretary-treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic
' Council. This year he was vice-president of the
Junior class and busigess manager of the Y. M.
C. A. Handbook. Last year Mebane was a
member of the Beaver Club, the honorary Soph-
omore organization, and vice-presidnet of the

Sophomore class. >

».

The nominating committee for officers of”
next year’s Senior class presented the names
of the following men as nominees for the Stu-
dent Council: Gene Cannon, Fred Dickinson
Bill Flinn, John Howard, Bob McCallie, Bruce
Peabody, Bob Glasgow, and Paul Brown. Three
men were also nominated from the floor: Byron
Shriver, Duncan McBryde, and Blair Gwynn.
Six out of these eleven men are to be elected
to succeed this year’s Senior members: E. S.
Brannon, R. W. Gorrell, J. H. McKinnon, L.
S. Raker, C. M. Miller, and N. G. Spier.

The vice-president and the secretary-treas-
urer of the Senior class have not as yet been
nominated, but the election of all the officers
will take place in the near future.

|

Officers For Rising
Juniors Are Named

McMillan Is Elected President; Pratt,
| Vice-President; Rives, Secre-

| tary-Treasurer

|

The election of officers for the rising Junior
class has recently been held, in which H. T.
“Shine” McMillan was made president; Lanier
|W. Pratt, vice-president, and Charlie Rives,
| secretary-treasurer.
| Three ballots were required before a_presi-
| dent could be selected. Those nominated by, a
| committee for this position were: Alec Schenck,
| John O'Keefe, Andy Manson, and Sam Nickey.
| Those nominated from the floor were “Shine”
McMillan, Charlie Rives, Lyman Clardy, and
| Boggs Corbin. On the first voting all were
jcliminated but Alec Schenck, John O'Keefe,
| Andy Manson, Sam Nickey, and McMillan. On
| Fhe second ballot only O'Keefe and McMillan
{were left in, and on the third ballot the latter
' won. McMillan is on the track team, in the Glee
| Club, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity.

Those nominated for vice-president were La-
j nier Pratt, Lynn Huie, Fred Smyre, and John
| Hunter. For the second voting only Huie and
Pratt remained, and Pratt finally took the posi-
tion. Pratt is a member of the track team and
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Those on the ticket for secretary-treasurer
| were: Charley John O'Keefe, Frank
| Hfolt, Everett Escott, and Ed Humphrey. Only
| Rives and Humphrey survived the first elimina-
|tion, and on the next ballot the number of votes
\for Rives prevailed. Rives is on the football
'squad and is a member of the Kappa Sigma
| social fraternity.

Rives,

| Nominations for Student Councilmen from
{the Junior class have also been made. Those
|made by the present council are: Lyman W.
|Clardy, John Drake, Bil} Johnston, John Laf-
\ferty, and Julian West. Those nominated from
the floor are: Andy Manson, Jim McClintock,
Mack Holland, and Owen Ravenel. Three of
these men will be elected.
