THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

Enthusiastic Alumni Meetings Held In |
New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore

Dr. J. W. MacConnell Gave Informa-
tive Account of the Davidson of
Today. Moving Pictures Shown

at Each City

NINETY ATTENDED

Fifty Were Present in New York; 23
in Philadelphia, and 17 in Balti-
more. Class of 1928 Led all
Others

Eighty-eight Davidson College alumni, repre-
senting 26 different classes, and two honorary
alumni, last week attended three alumni meet-
ings in New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore,
at which Dr. J. Wilson MacConnell, of David-
son, was the honored guest andeprineipal speak-
er. Reports from officers of each chapter indi-
cate that these were the best three meetings ever
held in these cities. Elsewhere on this page will
be found the names of men who attended and
officers who were elected.

Dr. MacConnell’s addresses before the three
chapters is excellently described in a_ report
received from Prof. R. C. Garth, ’19, retiring
secretary of the New York chapter, who wrote
that “Dr. MacConnell presented a fine descrip-
tion of the college freshman of today as he dif-
fers from the entrant of 25 years ago. Then he
came in horse and buggy, now in auto or air-
plane; then he was a green country boy, now
he has heard the latest news or jazz hit by
radio.

“He finds when he comes to Davidson a ver-
satile group of men as faculty. President Lingle
could trim, on the golf links, nine out of ten
of the men he greets at a freshman reception;
Dr, Cumming could take a fall at ju-jitsu  be-
fore he takes a fall out of a man in English;
‘Dr. J. M. McConnell could sell him an insur-
ance policy, while Dr. T. W. Lingle could teach
him equally as well in French, German, His-
tory, ete.

“Dr. MacConnell stressed the high standards |
maintained at Davidson even though it is a

small institution. He mentioned that every stu-

dent gets a physical examination every year ; |

regarded the R. O. T. C. as serving a useful

It had been the hope of the alumni sec-
retary that Dr. J. W. MacConnell would
write The a_ brief
count of his impressions on last week's
itinerary, but due to the injury to his boy
last Sunday, this was not requested of
the genial physician.

for Davidsonian ac-

purpose and was in favor of the college naked

the benefit of the government's contribution of
men and materials of thousands of dollars value.

“He told of the nature of his work in super-
vising the health of the students, and advocated
putting a man who needs special treatment in
touch” with the right specialist; preventing
spread of contagious diseases, and guiding the
students to better hygiene.

“Dr. MacConnell concluded with the thought
that no matter where a man goes or what he
does, he belongs to Davidson. His interests are
his Alma Mater’s also.”

At each of the three cities, two rolls
ing pictures of Davidson were shown,
picting the inauguration of .Dr. Lingle and the
other showing scenes of the Davidson campus.
The New York chapter discussed the possibil-
ity of purchasing. such equipment for the alumni
office, but concluded to assist in the purchase
of film for the camera. Favorable reports were
received from eachg officer about the moving
pictures, and the possibility of effective use of
such means of advertising.

At all of the gatherings letters of greeting
were read from Dr. C. R. Harding, their guest
last year, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary.
Other letters were read at the New York meet-
ing from Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson; Dr. J. W. McConnell, former visitor
there, and Prof. J. P. Williams, former mem-
ber of that chapter. The Philadelphia chapter
also decided to have another meeting this spring,
which will be early in May.

The distribution of attendance was New
York, 50; Philadelphia, 23, and’ Baltimore, 17.

_ The classes of 1928 led all others with 15 men
present, followed by 1929 with 11,/and 1930
with 10. j

of mov-
one «de-

|
|

| oe Those Who Attended |

1880—Rev. W. B. Jennings, D.D., German-
town, Pa.
1902—Dr.. H. C. Davis, Baltimore.

1903—-Henry Alan Johnston and W. P. Mills,
both of New York; Dr. Thos, P. Sprunt,
Baltimore. i

1904—Natt T. Wagner, New York.

1906—R. FE. Whitaker, New York.

1908—Prof. H. S. Shaw, Haverford, Pa.

1911—C. S. Mattison, New York; J. I
hannon, Brooklyn.

1912—Dr. R. E. Watkins, Belmar, N. J.

1913—Clifton Murphy, New York.

1914—Dr. C. A. Hart and Rev. FE. C. Murray,
Jr., both of New -York; Wm. R. Nor-
ris, Long Island, N. Y.

Yo-

1915—Raymond F. Morrissey, Laurel Springs,
Pennsylvania.

1916—W. G. Morrison and Capt. L. A. Mullen,
both of New York. ~
1917—S. C. Harris, Philadelphia ;

Rankip and Dr. A. B.
New York.
1918—Dr. Woodrow Clarke, Philadelphia.

Rev. C. E

Reese, both of

Officers Elected Alumni Personals Alumni Marriages |
NRG
y Baltimore Davidson College alumni with the Union Anderson-Edwards
President, Dr. H. C. Davis, '02. Theological Seminary deputation, which was on] [nformation has just been received at David-

Vice-President, Frank M. Burst, ’75.
Secretary, L. B. McClain, ’28.
New York
President, Henry Alan Johnston, 703.
Vice-President, Capt. Leroy A. Mullen; ’16.
Secretary, W. R. Grey, Jr., 28.
Philadelphia
President, Prof. H. S. Shaw, '08, Haverford,
Pennsylvania.
Vice-President,
Haddonfield, N. J.
Secretary, J. Lee Robinson, ’28, Philadelphia.

Dr. M. Robson, 719%

Geo

Alumni in Richmond
And Washington Will
Meet Next Week

Richmond Chapter Meets Tomorrow
Night and Washington Next Tues-
day. Bluefield Alumni Met
Monday

During the coming week two other Davidson
College alumni chapters will have their annual
dinner-meetnigs. The Richmond, Va., group will
have their meeting tomorrow night at Union
Theological Seminary at 8:30 o’clock, and the

Washington, D. C., chapter will meet at the
1919—Prof. R, C. Garth, New York; Dr. Clew-| Racquet Club, 1135 46th St, N. W., at 7
ell, Howell, Towson, Md.; Dr. G. MJ o'clock Tuesday night, March 29th. Ernest Mil-
Robson, Haddonfield, N. J. ton, alumni secretary, will attend the meetings
1921—Hadley A. Hill, New York; B. W.Jas representative from Davidson.
Romefelt, Glen Rock, N. J. Arrangements for the Richmond meeting have
1922Prof. John C. Bailey, Jr., Baltimore; Dr.] been in charge of Murray Christian, ’30, sec-
C. A. Dunn, New York. retary of the chapter, in collaboration with Dr.
1923—Dr. J. M. Adams, Philadelphia; Dr.|J. Allison Hodges, 79, president of that organ-
Hugh H. Bailey, Baltimore. ization. W. A. Elliott, '09, president of the
1924—Dr. FE S. Faison, Baltimore; Dr. J. B.| Washington group, has made the necessary ar-
Hunter and C. A. Young, both of New| rangements for the meeting in the Capital City.
York. There are 85 Davidson alumni available for
1925—-Dr. J. P. Hendrix, Philadelphia; €. C.|the Richmond meeting. Besides those in the
MeMillan, New York; T. F. Marrow,| Virginia capital others invited included alumni
* Jr. Brooklyn; G. D. Rogers, Baltimore. | from Petersburg, Hopewell, Sandston, Ashland
1926—Dr. J..M. Cooke and J. F. Moore, both }and Providence Forge, all in Virginia. The
of Philadelphia ; C. K. Marshall, Dr. Ed-| Washington vicinity will include Indian Head,
win Miller and Prof. H. H. Roseberry,| Md.; Rockville, Md.; Alexandria, Va., and
all of Baltimore; Dr. S. W. Moore, New| Warrenton, Va., for a total of 45 alumni. Alum-
York. ni at Woodberry Forest, Va., were invited to
1927—-F. F. Bohannon, Jr., J. O. Craig and E,| both, since they are halfway between the two
KE. Lingle, all of New York; J. A. Cal-| cities. ”
houn and R. H. Mellwaine, both of Phil- In addition to carrying the alumni information
adelphia, about the latest happenings on the campus and
1928-W. B. Bradford, Jr, J. C. Montgomery, | outlook for the approaching year, Mr. Milton
Jr., and J. Lee Robinson, all of Phila-| will also have with him two rolls of moving
delphia; ,D. D. Douglas, J.D, Gwin, J. S.| pictures of Davidson and the campus. Arrange-
McAlister, Roderick McRae, P. R. Maul-|™ents are being made by officers in both cities
den, M. C. O'Neal, J. W. Reid, Jr., D. O, | to obtain projectors for use that evening, so that
Westbrook, Jr., and. B. A. Wilson, all of | these can be shown to the Davidson alumni.
New York; W. R. Grey, Jr., Brooklyn; | These will be the fifth and sixth alumni
Joe Overton, Bronxville, N. Y.: L, B,|mectings within less than two weeks. Else-
McClain, Baltimore. ” where on this page accounts are given .of the
1929C, J. Albright, Philadelphia ; John Ely New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore gather-

and W. H. Middleton, of New York; R.
C. Grady and H. Lacy Hunt, of Prince-
ton; Gardner H. Green, Brooklyn; Henry

C. Harrill, R. R. Kane, and W. K,
Pritchett, all of Baltimore; R. F. Le-
“ Fevre, Mercersburg, Pa.; Prof, View

Williams, Haverford, Pa.

1930—S. C. Booker and Nat Hunt, both of Bal-
timore; A. L. DeCamp, Frank S. Erwin,
C. H. Pettus, Jr., and J. Z. Preston, all
of Philadelphia; J. L. Mauze, Jr., Wo Gl,
Ulmer, and J. Alan Wilson, all of New
York; L. B. Parrish, Rahway, N. \,

1931—A. R. Jackson, Philadelphia; R. M. Hun-

ings which Dr. J. W. MacConnell attended last
Dr. Lingle was in Bluefield, W. Va.,
Monday night for a meeting, a report of which
will not be received in time for inclusion in this
week's issue of The Davidsonian.

week.

Rey. K. G. Tucker, ’23, is now taking special
courses at Westminster Seminary, in Philadel-
phia.
ee

ter, Long Island, N. Y¥.; R. M. King,
New York.
Honorary—Fred L, Dendy, New A.

York ;
Courtney Doyle, Baltimore. !

For

Stetson “D” Store

Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s

BIG EASTER PARADE MARCH 27

Clothes For the College Man

the

the campus last week-end, included F. S. Blue,
10, manager of the baseball team; T. Archie
Freeman, '22; Knox Poole, '28; Jas. A. Jones,
31; Walter G. Sugg, Jr., ’31, and Earl F.
Thompson, 731.

Other alumni visitors on the campus during
the past week included Rev. W. S. Patterson,
03, Clover, S. C.; Dr. Chas. B. Robson, '19,

Chapel Hill; Thos. M, Alexander, ’29, Con-
cord; R. B. Hayes, '29, Hudson; Eugene W.
Smith, '30, Lumberton; W. A. Armfield, °31,

Winston-Salem; T. M. Hunter, ’31, Blenheim,
S.C, and W. E. McAlpine, Union, S. C.

Chas. G. Baskerville,
advertising staff of The
with the
Agency in Tampa, Fla.

28, formerly with the
Tampa Times, is now

connected Peninsula Advertising

Friends will regret to learn of the death of
Wade H. Allison, of Washington, D. C., father
of Rev. Wade H. Allison, Jr., ’26, of Leaks-
ville.

Davidson obtained considerable publicity last
week when one of the syndicated questions ap-
pearing in many national newspapers was,
“What North Carolina college did Woodrow
Wilson attend?”

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, for 34 years pro-
fessor of pedagogy at the University of North
Carolina, celebrated his 77th birthday on March
15th.

Lacy, D.D., ’06, president of
Union Theological Seminary, recently conduct-
ed a series of services at Duke University. His

Rev. Ben R.

closing address was at the regular Y. M. C. A,
vesper service on Sunday, March 13th.
J. Archie Cannon, '04, has been re-elected
president of the Cabarrus Country Club, of
Concord,

Davidson alumni on the committee of the
Southern Presbyterian Church to raise the
$12,000,000 budget were Rev. W. E. Hill, D.D,
900, Richmond, Va., and Hon, Chas. G.
‘ose, a classmate, of Fayetteville.

of

W. F. Stigler, ’28, who has been located in
‘hiladelphia with the Equitable Life Assurance
Society, is now stationed at Wilmington, Del.

son of the marriage on December 28th of Fred
Norris Anderson, 1926 alumnus of Davidson,
of Anderson, S. C., to Miss Florence Brennan
Edwards, of Monticello, Ark. The wedding
took place in the Associate Reformed Presby-
terian Church of that city. J. W. Anderson,
‘26, of Anderson, S. C., brother of the groom,
was best man, and John I. Smith, ’24, of Green-
ville, S. C., was one of the groomsmen.

Since leaving Davidson Mr.
heen in business at his home town. He is now
in the automobile business, representing the
General Tire Company, and is also connected
with the Sinclair Oil Company. For the past
two years the bride has been teaching in the
Anderson, S. C., schools.

Anderson has

James-Huie

Joseph Bertram James, 1929 graduate of Da-
vidson, and Miss Dorothy Lynn Huie, of Vi-
dalia; Ga., were married at-high noon in the
First Baptist Church of Vidalia on March 6th,
Mr. James, originally from Mebane, attended
the University of North Carolina after his grad-
uation here, and has more recentksbeen located
in Tampa, Fla., where he is in business. Mrs
James was educated at Wesleyan College, Ma-

con, Ga,

Engagement

1922—Rey. and Mrs. L. A. Taylor, of Little
Rock, Ark., announce the birth of a son,
Lindsay Arnold, Jr., on March 6th.

1927—Mr. and Mrs. W. W. of Char-
lotte, announce the birth of a son, Sidney
Caldwell, on March 9th.

Kiser,

Births

Boney-Hamrick
“Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Boney, of Rose Hill,
nnounce the engagement of their daughter,

Eunice, to Frederick D, Hamrick, Jr., of Ruth-
rfordton, the wedding to take place in June.”

Mr. Hamrick is in the class of 1930, and went
to the University of Nortlr Carolina before
rraduating from Davidson. He has pursued the
liw course, and has already passed the North
Carolina bar examination. He is now at Chapel
Hill, where he, is president of the third year
‘aw class.»

iD

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

%

iS

UU

athletic union suits and Shirts and

Neen OO UL

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials!
ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how

HANES UNDERWEAR

EAA

Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

shorts are made better by HANES.

For

Every Season
