THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

BOOK REVIEW Bowery Ball

1919—John Dos Passos. Harcourt, Brace and on April 16, the Pan-Hellenic Coun-
Company. cil will sponsor a series of three enter-

tainments in Charlotte which, with the ||
house parties held by the social fra- ||
ternities, will make up one of the out- |
standing week-ends of the spring term.
The entertainment on Saturday eve-
ning, April 16, is to be the annual
“Bowery Ball” and will be held in the
Charlotte Armory.

The first of these entertainments is
to be held in the ballroom of the Char-
lotte Hotel on Friday evening, April
15. The second and third will be in the
Armory on Saturday, April 16. Our
own Sunnyland Serenaders will play
at all the entertainments. The price for
the Friday night dance is $1.50; for
Saturday afternoon, $1.00, and for Sat-
urday night, the “Bowery Ball,” $1.50.
Special features will be sponsored, in-
cluding the awarding of prizes for the
best costumes at the “Bowery Ball.”

Dilemma, despondency, and adversity typify
the remarkable book, 1919, by John Dos Passos.
In 1919 Mr. Dos Passos recounts, with circum-
stantial evidence, an American history of after
the war dilemma. The author again uses the
form he introduced in The 42nd Parallel, the
story sandwiches pictorial life-histories between
news clipping, impressionistic sketches, and
lives of historical figures. The movement from
section to section is artfully casual and abrupt.
One minute you will be fascinated at a barbed
description of Wilson's fight for the League of
Nations, and on turning the page be informed
that Jack Dempsey knocked out Jess Willard
‘in the third round.

The reader is introduced to several real char-
acters, whose lives are all full of ‘exciting
things. First comes Joe Williams who, after a
fight with an officer, deserts the navy in South
America. He gets forged papers, goes to Eng-
land, and is there put in prison as a spy. Finally
released, he gets back to the United States, mar- |

|

|

ries, and enters the merchant marine. After that | Local Scout Troop
he goes from port to port, drinking and doing | Wi ° |
ins Indoor Trials

all he can to forget the war. A drunken fight |
marks the end of his attempt to forget. The |
other characters all tell much” the same story, |
though they have different emphasis put on dif- |
ferent things. The other characters are: Eveline |

Charlotte Scouts Are Defeated in Com-|

petition Involving Various
Arts

JUNIOR

SPEAKING VISITORS.

=

=" ar
————

Left to right: Miss Mary Shemwell of Lexington, Miss Sally Couch of Charlotte, Miss Margaret Gorrell of Winston-Salem, Miss

Hutchins, a Chicago minister’s daughter who,
though having an artistic nature, lives a most
twisted career; Dick Savage, a Harvard stu-
dent, and a pathetic figure; ‘Anne Trent, a high-
spirited typically western girl from Texas, this
is the weakest part of the book, for one grows

Davidson Boy Scouts defeated two Charlotte
Scout troops in a contest in various arts of
Scouting held at the Scout hut
Lane Methodist Church.

at Hawthorne

The three-way meet was between Troop 1|

tired of this high-strung, “harm-scarm” brat; of Davidson and Cornelius, Troop 5 of Haw-

|
and Ben Compton, a communist from Brook. | thorne Lane Methodist Church, and Troop 20 He is P. C. Graduate and Honor Stu-
lyn, all lead distorted lives, and the abnormal | 0! Second Presbyterian Church, The score was : |

way they tried to remedy fate is pathetic and
disheartening. They are all lonely and blue,
America is full of ideals and propaganda, their
lives have less meaning to them than the mean-
ingless war. Driven into desperate love, and
drink, they saw their civilization feed their spir-
its only words, so they fed their bodies to the
fire of guns, or to the vapor of gas.

With these stories are biographies of Wood-
row Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt and other fig-
ures that dominated the stage during the bloody
period with which Dos Passos is concerned.
These stories are rather fine, for they present
a bird's-eye view of a mad world; Europe is
presented as a land of turmoil and hate, and
America is shown as a goddess but not of lib-
erty. Her land is for the living but not for the
free. Her culture, as her liberty, seems to he
veneer,

the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National
Cemetery. “In the tar-paper morgue at Chalons-
sur-Marne in the reek of chloride of lime and
the dead, they picked out the pine box that held
all that was left of—enie menie minie moe.”
They brought the box to Washington where
medals of all Allies were given the bones, big
men (financially big) from New York sent
flowers, the Indians from Arizona presented a
little wampum (they came in war paint and
feather headdress), Wilson placed a wreath of
Poppies, and the orators placed praise in abund-
ance. Harding’s prayer ended the magnificent
burial. Mr. Dos © Passos is strongly of the
opinion that with the close-6f that tomb,
was also closed a civilization,

There is no doubt that Dos Passos has made
another great contribution to American fiction.
1919 will not be as pleasant as Manhattan
Transfer, or The 42nd Parallel to the average
reader, but it should be read because of its
genuine greatness. It not only points out the
sad defeat of a number of characters, but it
brings to mind the real struggle that must take
place within the men who returned from war
and resumed their original role. Eve
man should be given a copy of 1979,

J. L. Gregg.

there

ry young

Educational Groups
Meet in Charlotte

The North Carolina Modern Language As-
sociation recently met in Charlotte. The con-
vention was held in conjunction with the North
Carolina Educational Association. This meet-
ing was held to further interest in the three
great modern languages, French, German and
Spanish. Each language had its representatives
and had its individual and separate meeting.
On Friday the three departments met together.
The speaker for the afternoon was Professor
Clement Vollmer of Duke University.

At this assembly the officers for the coming
year. were elected; Andre Hadre of North
Carolina College for Women, was elected pres-
ident, and Professor Blythe of the Davidson
faculty was elected secretary. Dr. Vowles, also
of the Davidson faculty, the retiring president,
presided at this meeting.

Friday evening a reception was held for the
various visiting professors. The meeting was
reported to have been highly entertaining and
instructive.

Troop
points ;

The events were: Fire by friction, won by
Sloop and Ingram of Troop 1; knot-tying, won
by Colvin of Troop 1; dressing relay, won
hy McBryde of Troop 5; first aid relay, won
hy Watson, Ray and Martin of Troop 5; sig-

1, Davidson, 15 points;
Troop 20, 8 points.

Troop 5, 13

nalling, won by Cochran, H. Mooney, J. Mooney |

of Troop 1; indoor baseball, won hy Troop 20.
The officials of- the meet were all of Troop
11, as follows: Scoutmaster Reginald L. Price,
chief; George C. Rowe, L. G. Edwards, W. C.
Edwards, Louis Dixon and Parks Austin.

‘Davidson President

Speaks in West Va.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle left Davidson Satur-

i ; day, March 19, to conduct a speaking tour in
1919 is brought to a close with the burial of | West Virginia. The trip required two days

Dr. Lingle speaking at Welch, W. Va., on three
occasions, and at Bluefield twice.

Sunday morning the president of Davidson
filled the pulpit of the First Presbyterian
Church at Welch. That evening he delivered
a sermon at a mass mecting of the Welch
theatre at the Pocahontas Theatre. Before leav-
ing that city, Dr. Lingle addressed the students
of the senior high school on Monday morn-
ing.

At Bluefield, W. Va., he spoke early Mon-
day afterrioon to the Beaver High School stu-
dents. That night Dr. Lingle was honored at
a dinner meeting held at the West Virginia
Hotel for alumni of Davidson. The audience
Was composed, in addition to alumni, of parents
of the 16 boys from that section now attending
Davidson, and prospective students.

Birth Announcement

On March 21. there were born to Dr. and

Mrs. Price H. Gwynn twin daughters, Bar-

bara Caroline and Betty Ann. Mother
daughters are doing well.

and

ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING

|
| Elizabeth Gilmour of Wilmington, and Miss Sally Pheafer of New Bern.
|

|
| John Bright Speaks |

At Morning Service|

| dent at Union Seminary
| pobre

| John Bright, a member of the deputation
| from the Union Theological Seminary in Rich-
}mond, Va., was the speaker at) the morning
Pcehurch service last Sunday. Mr. Bright took |
Hhis text from the Book of Ezekiel and str
{throughout his) whole sermon “Forbearance.”
| He began by saying how glad he was cf the
| pleasure to talk before the students and the

sssed

}people of Davidson, as he had heard so mich
f the college and its students. He then went
m to say that people even in a community like

Davidson sometimes have the wrong impression
fof a seminary. “Preachers and especially minis. |
terial the
stood people in the world,” Mré Bright statea.
“And the only way to clear this up is to let the
people know them both better.”

He went further to say that. the. seminaries
among the most essential {iene
country and without them the country
be naught. He verified this statement by saying
that from the seminaries the people obtain their |
a community would

students are about most misunder

were things

would

preachers without which t
soon break in pieces. Going on, he proved the
absolute need of the preacher and seminary and |
stated that they were both misunderstood by |
the man who calls himself a Christian butewho

sright went on to say

; A |
is not one in truth. Mr.

that the majority of men who were such were
at one time Christians but who had become lax
about adhering to the principles of their relig
ion,

According to Mr.
reasons which bring about this effect, one of
the most forgetfulness. He
proved with apt illustrations how one may he-
lieve on Christ and be a Christian in name and
yet fail to conform to the ideals which every

Bright there are several

common — being

Christian should live by because he forgets. Mr.
Bright pointed out the possibility of one bechm-
ing a prophet in his community by living the
Christian life in the correct way. He closed by
urging us to be forbearing in all things, espe-
cially in things spiritual, and at the same time
bear up in our duties as a Christian and have
interest in the seminaries.

Mr. Bright is a graduate of Presbyterian Col-
lege and while there was a star both in foot-

ball and in track, and held high scholastic hon- |

|vidson was, represented by Scott-with a

Classics Fraternity
Performs Initiation

Eta Sigma Phi Takes in Thirteen New
Men March 17th

The annual initiation of the Eta Sigma Phi
Fraternity was held
March 17th at 9 o'clock in the Eu Literary So-
ciety hall, with the president, Roger [Enloe, pre-

Honorary of Classics

siding. It is quite an honor to receive bids to
this the are
only from the Sophomore, Junior and Senior

fraternity, and members chosen
classes. After the initiation the fraternity ad-
journed to the social center, where a delightful
“feed” was enjoyed by both the old and new
members.

Those who were initiated into this fraternity
at this meeting were Albert W. Colwell, Joh
Hl. Fitzgerald, Jr., J. Parker, Jr, 1
IP) Henry C. Shapard, J.
Geachy, Jr., T. Hl. McCallie, J.
M. Davis, W. Mel. ‘Thompson, Lanier W.
Pratt, W. T. Thompson, Jr., Francis H. Scott.

There will be no other bids issued this spring,

n
Kenton ‘
Harrison,

as thesée cover the fall as well as spring term.

Gastonia Rifle Club
Outpoints Davidson

On March 15 the Rifle Club of Gastonia de
feated the R. O. T. C. team from Davidson
College by the scores of 907 to 859 for the
Class A teams and 863 to 837 for the Class B
teams. The match was held in Gastonia.

Representing Gastonia on the Class A team
M. S. Reid, with a score of 187; R. H.
Parker, 183; H, M. Van Sleen, 182% D. &E.
McConnell, 179, and R. J. Frieze, 176. The Da
vidson

were

team these men was
composed of Graham, with a score of 180;
Wiley, 173; Green, 175; Mills, 173; Brohard,

158.

shooting against

The Gastonia Class B team was represented |

Mc- |

by Jones, McLean, W. J. McLean, H. R.
Connell and Klutz. These men shot scores of
184, 184, 173, 161, and 161, respectively. Da-
score
of 171; Simpson, shooting 170; Ryburn, 170’;
Cathey, 168, and Escott, 158,

Mr. W. Cecil Neill

Mr. W. Cecil Neill, father of W.
Cecil Neill, Jr., of the class of 1935,
died suddenly Wednesday at his home
in Columbus, Ga. Mr. Neill was presi-
dent of the Georgia Senate, an out-
standing lawyer of Columbus, and a
faithful member of the local Presby-
terian Church. His influence was felt
throughout the entire state of Georgia,
and the announcement of his death
comes as a distinct shock to his many
friends. The sympathy of Davidson
students and faculty is extended to his
family.

'Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks

hee At Banquet in Winston

J. Klooster, T. |

Address Delivered Before Men of the
First Presbyterian Church

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, in ang address last
Thursday night to the members of the Men-of-
the-Church, an organization of men in the First
Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, made
an appeal for the men to be a living witness
for Christ. He said that we need the baptism
of fire and the Holy Spirit to literally trans-
form us from mere church members into living
witnesses for Christ. In this magnetic address
Dr. Lingle called for consecrated” lives unto

{the work of Christ. :

| This address was delivered before the quar-
lterly banquet of the organization and was pre-
| sided over by the :
| Stroud, in the absence of Dr. W. H. Sprunt,
the retiring president. A very fine musical pro-
gram, which consisted of group songs and two

retiring vice-president, A. B.

quartets, was given under the able direction of
W. H. Neal. The Rev. W. T. Baker, director
lof religious education of the church, gave a very
| interesting book review of St. John by Andrew
sird, Jr.

Dr. Lingle was accompanied to Winston-Sa-
|} lem Dr. J. M. McConnell who the
guest of the evening. The guest-speaker was

by was

| introduced by S. Clay Williams and Dr. Lingle

announced his own subject, “The Deeper Spir-
(Continued on page 6)

See ‘ i : | @Bee M ye |
(Continued from page 1) ors. On going to the seminary he maintained, @& oa
tion. Since that time the class has grown so ae nceriaes ae Aa cer ae eae
large that such a procedure would be impos-|“ "° Oe ieee Eocene e y,
; ate ; and social honors won for | a fellowship
eee tradition has continued to ne Aiea slain lars 7 ade ee vee _ Davidson Theatre
The committee in charge of the Weak ean | ee
this doce d up of eee, ae re re be tBuuBE ae aria a MONDAY and TUESDAY
man; C. R. Wright, Bruce Peabody, Billy Flinn|as a scientific truism.—The Rev. ae : 6 Ty
and Leland McKeithan. Clausing. DANCE Noe PARK
*. o WEDNESDAY
“PLAY GIRL”
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY : LORETTA YOUNG
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA | dean Tveap Ay Sere
: sites e |
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars ; = CONSTANCE BENNETT
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities. FRIDAY
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every “GIRL CRAZY”
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church. S WHEELER AND WOOSLEY
- SATURDAY
“ALIAS THE DOCTOR”
Catalog and information on request. RICHARD BARTHELMESS
le )) 52 , |

