THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

.

: Alumni Meetings Planned 3 NI PERSONALS
ALUMNI MARRIAGES In March far New: York ALUM
- - And New Bern Sections
Salmons-Michael November 23, 1931. After graduation, Mr. Baker nd Me Alumni visiting Davidson recently included] Bank & Trust Company. He has been cashier

Dr. Henry Clay Salmons, of Elkin, and Miss
Willie Gertrude Michael, of Kernersville, were
married at the home of the bride on December
17th. Dr. Salmons is a 1904 graduate of the
North Carolina Medical College, attending that
institution when it was located at Davidson,
and in the same year of his graduation he was
licensed to practice in this state. He has been
located in the western part of the state during
his entire career, and is one of the leading
physicians of Elkin. He was associate operator
of Elkin’s first hospital until it was discontin-
ued a few years ago. Mrs. Salmons was edu-
cated at Elon College and for the past five years
had been teaching English in the Elkin High
School.

Austin-West
James Madison Austin, 1918 alumnus. of Da-
vidson residing in New York City, and Mrs.
Madeline Horne West, of Pittsburgh and Ca-
tawba Farms, Old Westbury, Long Island, N.
Y., were married in Reno, Nev., in January.
Mr. Austin was educated at St. Luke’s School,
Wayne, Pa., before coming to Davidson, and
after leaving here he attended the Wharton
Business School of the University of Pennsyl-
vania, He is now a member of the financial
firm of Campbell, Peterson & Company, 84

William St., New York, N. Y.

Berryhill-Wilson

William Carey Berryhill, 1919 Davidson
alumnus, of Charlotte, and Miss Mary Louise
Wilson, of Louisburg, were married at the home
of the bride’s parents on January 9th. Mr.
Berryhill’s education at Davidson was _ inter-
rupted by the World War. He served 1f months
in France with the 81st Division. At present
he holds a government position, being connected
with the railway mail service. Mrs. Berryhill
was educated at Louisburg College and is a
member of Kappa Delta Phi sorority. For the
past three years she has been a member of the
Louisburg Graded School faculty. Mr. and Mrs.

Berryhill-are at home at 1300 East Boulevard,
Charlotte.

Taylor-Deane

Jacquelin Plummer Taylor, 1921 graduate of
Davidson, of Winston-Salem, and Miss Anna
Louise Deane, of Chevy Chase, Md., were mar-
tied in the Chevy Chase Presbyterian Church
on January 2nd. E. D. Taylor, ’11, and A. B.
Taylor, ’11, both of Winston-Salem and broth-
ers of the groom, were best man and grooms-
man, respectively. After graduating from Da-
vidson, Mr. Taylor taught for a while, and
then attended Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., from which he graduated. He
was pastor at Elkin for a while, but is now in
business at Winston-Salem, Mr. and Mrs. Tay-

lor are at home at 863 ‘West Fifth St., Win-
ston-Salem.

Denny-Battle

Edwin Harden Denny, 1922 alumnus, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., and Miss Edith Marion Battle, of
Atlanta, Ga., were married in the North Ave-
nue Presbyterian Church of Atlanta on Decem-
ber 26th. For the past ten years Mr. Denny
has been connected in the southeastern states
with the sales organization of the Addresso-

graph Company. He has been located in At

lanta and Greensboro, and is now sales agent
for five states, with headquarters at Memphis.
Tenn. Mrs. Denny was educated in the schools

of Augusta, Ga., and also at Hollins College,
in Virginia.

Cunningham-Flinn
Dr. Charles Edward ‘Cunningham, graduate
of Davidson in 1922, of Franklin, and Miss
Elizabeth Dare Flinn, of East Orange, N. J.,
were married during the Christmas season. Dr.
Cunningham taught school for a few years after

graduation, after which he enrolled in the Em-|.

ory University Medical School, completing his
work at Johns Hopkins. His interneship was
served at the hospital of the university in Balti-
more, and upon completion of that, he became
connected with the Angell Brothers Hospital
at Franklin. He is in charge of the surgical
work there.

; Baker-L’Engle

News was rceently received at Davidson of
the marriage of Thompson S. Baker, 1926 grad-
uate of Davidson, and Miss Cynthia L'Engle,
both of Jacksonville, Fla., which took place on

was for a while connected with the firm of
Baker & Holmes, of Jacksonville, but for the
past several’ years has been a partner in Shands
& Baker Co., dealers in building supplies, in
Jacksonville. Mrs. Baker obtained her educa-
tion at St. Timothy’s School and also at Har-
cum, in Philadelphia.

McKinnon-Murray

James Calvin McKinnon, a 1926 alumnus of
Davidson, and Miss Martha Fairley Murray,
both of Laurinburg, were married in that city
on December 19th. After leaving Davidson, Mr.
McKinnon went into business at Laurinburg,
where he has remained ever since. Mrs. McKin-
non was graduated with a bachelor of music
degree from Flora Macdonald College at Red
Springs in’ 1927.

Lincoln-Richardson

Ralph Louis Lincoln, a 1927 Davidson gradu-
ate, and Miss Sarah Richardson, both of Mar-
ion, Va., were married in Marion on February
3rd. Mr. Lincoln attended the law school at the
University of Virginia, was graduated with his
degree in that field, and is now practicing at
Marion. Mrs. Lincoln was educated at Brenau
College at Gainesville, Ga., and at Arlington
Hall, in Washington, D. C.

Vaughan-McGregor

James Alexander Vaughan, Jr., graduate of
Davidson in 1927, of Roxboro, N. C., and Miss
Mary Celina McGregor, of Columbia, S. C.,
were married in the Trinity Episcopal Church
at Columbia on February 6th. After graduat-
ing from Davidson, Mr. Vaughan attended N.
C. State College. He is now connected in the
personnel department of the Collins Aikman
Corporation, of Roxboro. Mrs. Vaughan at-
tended the University of South Carolina and: is
a member of Delta Delta Delta sorority.

Woodham-Colbert

Kelly Vernon Woodham, another 1927 Da-
vidson graduate, of Port Gibson, Miss., was
married on December 5th to Miss Celeste Col-
bert of Jackson, Miss., the marriage taking
place in the latter city. Since leaving Davidson,
Mr. Woodham has attended the University of
Mississippi, and the remainder of the time has
taught at Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy,
at which he is now located. Mrs. Woodham
obtained her education at the Mississippi »State
College for Women.

McCrary-Morrison

James Franklin McCrary, 1928 Davidson
graduate, of Asheboro, and Miss Martha Mor-
tison, of Hartsville, S. C., were married in the
First Presbyterian Church at Hartsville on
January 16th. Chas. W. McCrary, ’24, of Ashe-
boro, brother of the groom, was best man. Mr.
McCrary has been associated in business with
his father and is now secretary of the Acme
Hosiery Mills at Asheboro, Mrs. McCrary is
a graduate of Winthrop College, and for the
past two years has taught at High Point.

Neely-Davis
Harry Lee Neely, a graduate of Davidson in
the class of 1928 and principal of the Sunny-

Notices Have Already Been Mailed
to Over Two Hundred Davidson
Alumni Residing in These Two

Vicinities

DAVIDSON SPEAKERS

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Will Be At New
Bern, and Dr. John W. MacConnell
Goes to New York

Notices were mailed from the alumni office
last week to over 80 Davidson College alumni
in the eastern part of the state, in the section
surrounding New Bern, and to 130 Davidson
men in New York and vicinity, informing them
of proposed gatherings of former students of
the college in New Bern and New York on
the dates of March 7th and March 16th, re-
spectively. Local alumni at both of these places
have set these dates and invited the speakers.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the insti-
tution, will attend the New Bern gathering,
going to that city from Wilmington, where he
will be over the week-end, speaking several
times. Dr. John W. MacConnell, college physi-
cian, has been invited by the New York chap-
ter to visit them in March and appear as the
honored guest and speaker of the occasion, ‘

Rev. R. FE. McClure, '20, of New Bern, pas-
tor of the First Presbyterian Church there, is
in charge of arrangements for the meeting of
alumni in that section—the ‘first gathering that
has ever been held, and Dr. A. B. Reese, 17,
is president of the New York group. Prof.
R. C. Garth, '19, of the Columbia University
faculty, is secretary of the metropolis chapter.

Mr. McClure’s plan is not only to have the
Davidson alumni present, but also the Presby-
terian ministers of that Presbytery, the trustees
of Davidson residing in that vicinity, and the
parents of the boys now in Davidson. Further-
more, each alumnus is expected to bring a
prospective student to the supper as his guest.
either his own son, or a boy whom he would
like to attend Davidson.

The New York chapter is having its annual
dinner, which is attended by over 50 per cent
of the Davidson men who reside within a ra-
dius of 75 miles of New York. This chapter
has been meeting regularly for many years.
and a visiting speaker from Davidson is usually
invited, the chapter bearing the expense of the
visit. This is one of the most active groups of
alumni in existence.

Although Dr. MacConnell has not yet stated
how many days he can remain away from the
campus, it is expected that he will be absent for
several other gatherings along the Atlantic
seaboard. Alumni chapters are located in Bos-
ton, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore and
Richmond, but it is doubtful if the college physi-

side School at Bessemer City, was married to
Miss Flora Anderson Davis, also of Bessemer
City, in the Preshyterian Church there on De-
cember 23rd. Rev. Coyte Hunter, 719, pastor
of the church, performed the ceremony. Mr.
Neely has been teaching since he graduated
from Davidson, and has advanced to the prin-
cipalship of the school in Bessemer City. ~

Lfestats |

Ly J
ea

LJ
a oa

Davidson Theatre

Monday
“CHEATERS AT PLAY”

Tuesday

“CORSAIR”
CHESTER MORRIS
Wednesday
“RECKLESS AGE”
BUDDY ROGERS
Thursday

“SHE WANTED A MILLIONAIRE”

E Frida
“MANHATTAN PARADE”
ee

“PANAMA FLO”
HELEN TWELVETREES

De

R. L. Douglas, 99, of Chester, S. C.; Woodrow
McKay, 15, of Lexington; Geo. Miley, Jr., TR
of Charlotte; Calvin F. Teague, ’22, of Ander-
son, S. C.; Dr. J. C. Leonard, Jr., 24, of Lex-
ington; J. M. Proctor, ’31, and J. C. Ramseur,
31, both of Lincolnton.

Davidson College alumni who are within the
war sector of China include (this is within a

‘radius of 200 miles of either Nanking.or Shang-

hai): Rev. Henry L. Reaves, ’11; Rev. S. C.
Farrior, 12; Rev, Frank W. Price, 15; Rev.
A. R. Craig, 717; Rev. G. A. Hudson, 718; Dr.
Phillip B. Price, 18; Dr. J. B. Woods, Jr., 718;
Julian R. Briggs, ’25; Dr. N. G. Patterson, ’25,
and William) B. Rice, ’27.

Friends will deeply regret to learn of the
tragedy which occurred in the family of Leon
M. Ham, Jr., ’27, of Greensboro, which oc-
curred last Saturday when his two-year-old
daughter was crushed and instantly killed be-
neath the wheels of an ice truck,

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., ’18, curator of ornith-
ology at the Charleston, S. C., museum, and a
writer of prominnece in nature magazines, has
recently published his first book, “Dwellers of
the Silences,” which has been described as a
“vivid, dramatic and accurate set of nature
stories.” In preparing a statement about the
book, the publishers wrote, “It is as if Mr.
Sprunt had travelled from the land of blizzards
to the tropics with his creatures, had seen them
in every turn of their lives, ‘and had reported
their experiences with objectivity and lack of
sentimentality.” This book is in the Davidson
library.

A. R. Carroll, 17, is connected with the Caro-
lina Light and Power Company, in Raleigh.

James M. McCorkle, ’90, head of the trust
department of the First National Bank of Salis-
bury, has been appointed receiver for the Cum-
berland National Bank of Fayetteville, which
closed its doors some weeks ago. Mr. McCorkle
is a banker of experience, having been con-
nected with the old Davis and Wiley Bank,
of Salisbury, which became a member of the
Atlantic Bank & Trust Compfny, and which
was later with the North

merged Carolina

cian will be able to visit more than two other
places on the trip.

. Due to a limited amount of funds, the alumni
office planning no extensive program of
alumni meetings this spring, but is arranging
those whose chapters pay the expenses of a
visitor from Davidson.

is

and served in other capacities in all these
banks.

Thomas S. Neal, ’31, who had been with
the American Tobacco Company at Reidsville,
is now employed by the May Hosiery Mills,
at Burlington.

c

Dr. L. P. Cox, ’25, is now practicing at Fred-
ericksburg, Va., and is located at 1114 Main
St., in that city.

Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville,
has been appointed on a committee of nine at-
torneys of this state to meet with the circuit
judges of the United States Court, in accord-
ance with a plan adopted last year by the
American Bar Association.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., ’05, professor
of religious ‘education at Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va., has accepted an invi-
tation to preach the baccalaureate sermon at

N. C. C. W., Greenshoro, on June Sth.
A recent news dispatch announced that
Charles K. (Buck) Marrow, ’31, would be the

youngest member of the squad to report to the
Palo Alto, Calif., training grounds of the De-
troit Tigers. The team holds its first workout
between February 20-30. Mr. Marrow was with
the Beaumont, Texas, League last year, and it
will not be known whether he will “make” the
majors this season until the practices are well
advanced.

McAlister Carson, ’13, of Charlotte, has been
appointed chairman of a committee of one hun-
dred to make arrangements for a series of big
religious meetings in Charlotte.

S. Clay Williams, ’05, has been selected as
chairman of the 1932 Community Chest cam-
paign of Winston-Salem. He replaces Mayor
Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11, who has heen in charge
of the last two campaigns.

NORTON’S
BARBER. SHOP

Prompt Service

Satisfaction
Guaranteed

">

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.

Without Extra Cost. Come

Stetson “D” Store

Offers With Every Spring Suit Bought During the Month of
February

A Free Pair of Pants or Knickers

Patterns Over

Clothes For the College Man

in and Look the New Spring

