THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, ‘1932

WILDCATS SCORE TOUCHDOWN
TO BREAK JINX OF '11 YEARS

(Continued from page 1)
returning punts. DeAngelis, at guard, showed
up exceptionally well in the Deacon forward
wall.

Seven Wildcats closed their careers in a
blaze of glory. Jack Wagner, Dick Whit-
field, Bruce Peabody, Charley Pearce, Bud-
dy Gardner, Fred Ogden, and Billy Flinn
played their last game for Davidson, and
made a most creditable showing, and left the
field with the knowledge that they were on
the first team to beat Wake Forest since
1920. Jack Wagner, redoubtable tackle,
played one of the finest games of his entire
college career, dumping Wake Forest plays
behind the line of scrimmage with regular-
ity. Captain Buddy Gardner, with his knee
still in bad shape, played one of his best
games, and closed his career with the true
Wildcat spirit. In the backfield, Charley
Pearce stood out like a beacon light, but he

s ably supported by that dependable little
quarterback, Bruce Peabody, and a dynamic
fullback, Eb Willson, who-had the distinc-
tion of being in the Davidson line-up, and
playing in the Wake Forest backfield, until
he was removed from the game on account
of injuries in the third quarter.

The Deacons opened strongly, ripping off
two consecutive first downs, aided, however,
by a brace of penalties. After an exchange
of punts they got another, and Lawhorn
fumbled, Whitfield recovering for the ’Cats
on the Davidson 45. The ’Cats punted again,
and Wake Forest took to the air, and on a
successful toss were on the Davidson 16-
yard line. Here the ’Cats held, and the
threat ended when Russell, passed into the,
end zone, giving Davidson the ball on their
own 20-yard line, the quarter ending shortly
after. :

To open the second canto, Wake Forest
made it first down on a series of thrusts
with Wilson and Lawhorn carrying the ball,
but were forced to kick in the next series

of downs, Davidson then made a pair of

first downs, with Wingfield doing most of
the gaining. The ball then went over, and
Pearce had just intercepted a pass as the
half ended.

It was on the kickoff that opened the sec-
ond half that Pearce “made his brilliant

Cheety, Clark, Dudley, Kessler. Davidson—
Wingfield, Gardner, Ogden, Potter, Hutchins,
Flinn.

Officials: Referee—Arnold (Auburn). Um-
pire—Sholar (Presbyterian). Head linesman
—Collins (Vanderbilt). Field judge—Gass
(Lehigh).

Wildcats May Become
Conference Members
Davidson Among Four Schools Consid-

ered as Possible S. I. C.
Additions

.Davidson College is one of four schools
being considered as possible additions to the
Southern Intercollegiate Conference, it was
announced recently by C. P. Miles, president
of the association. William and Mary, Loy-
ola, of New Orleans, and the University of
Richmond are the others considered.

Action will not be taken concerning the
additions until the annual meeting of the
conference in Knoxville, Tenn., December 9
and 10, but preparations for the convention
revealed that the taking in of these schools
was being considered.

This will not be the first time that David-
son has been brought before the body as a
possible newcomer into the conference. Sev-
eral times in the past the conference has
mentioned the possibility of taking in David-
son, but no invitation has ever been ex-
tended.

Records show that Davidson has done ex-
ceptionally well against Southern Confer-
ence teams in past years, and even this year
won two, tied one, and lost three games to
conference teams.

DR. RICHARDS SPEAKS
FOR SUNDAY VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

After naming many other ways in which
the two are similar, Dr. Richards ctosed by
saying: “The greatest way in which the two
correspond is that the all-important thing
is not winning. The greatest mistake we
make in our zeal for football today is our
lust for victory. Many great coaches have
taught that we should play the game for
the game’s sake. Alonzo Stagg, Chicago’s
recently retired mentor, always put charac-
ter building before winning games.”

“Dr. Richards’ talk, though short, was one
of the most interesting heard on the hill
this year. .

Leslie Thompson led in prayer and Dr.

Richards closed with the benediction.

PHI SOCIETY ENJOYS
INSTRUCTIVE PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)
debate on the query, Resolved: That a centi-
pede with corns is in a worse predicament
than a giraffe with a sore throat. The crip-

pled centipede was supported by Cochrane,
while the condition of the giraffe’s throat
was minutely examined by Beatty.

Duncan McBryde, the critic, announced the
program for next week, the feature being
a serious debate, Resolved: That the U. S.
should cancel the war debts of the European
countries. The coming program is antici-
pated with much interest by all the support-
ers of this organization. New men inter-
ested in literary society work are cordially
invited to join. The society meets every
Tuesday night at 6:30 in the Phi hall over
the Y.

At Trenton, N. J., a hungry five-foot king
snake and a hungrier rattlesnake were put
in the same cage. The king snake won
the fight while moving picture machines
clicked away for the future edification of
the state’s students.

What Davidson’s 1932
Opponents Did

DUKE 13, W. & L. 0.
CITADEL 13, WOFFORD 0.
Vv. M. I. 0, V. P. I. 26.
CLEMSON 0, Furman 7.
'N. C. STATE 7, South Carolina 7.
CAROLINA 7,. Virginia 14,

STUDENTS WILL HEAR
DR. JAMES SOUTHALL WILSON

(Continued from page 1)

This distinguished speaker has been the
editor of the “University of Virginia Alumni
Bulletin’ and the “Virginia Quarterly Re-
view” since 1925. He is a ‘member of the
State Board of Education, Modern. Lan-
guage Association of America, and the Amer-
ican Association of University Professors. .
He has edited “The Enchanted Years,” 1921;
“An Appreciation of Edgar Allan Poe,”
1923; “Letters of Edgar Allan Poe to George
W. Eveleth,” 1924; “Facts. About Poe,” 1926,
and “Tales of Edgar Allan Poe.”

It is hoped that the Davidson students will
avail themselves of this opportunity to hear
their accomplished guest on this occasion.

el

IS COMING!

66

touchdown gallop, that was called back by
the alert official. Captain Green kicked off

for Wake Forest, and Pearce caught the]

ball on his own 16-yard line, and checked
out down’ the center of the ‘field, with his
cohorts blocking perfectly, and was soon
ahead of the pack, and crossed the goal line
standing up. Davidson supporters were de-
pressed .considerably when the play was
called back, and penalized five yards for an
illegal formation. With Wilson doing most
of the leather toting, Wake Forest moved
up to Davidson’s 33, and from, here Wilson
punted out on Davidson’s two-yard line.
Here Pearce exhibited a piece of daring, and
on faking a kick, passed from behind his
own goal. However, it was incomplete. The
kick that followed went straight up, and the
game appeared’ over for Davidson, but Cap-
tain Green fumbled, and Davidson recovered
on their own six-yard line. Pearce kicked
again, and it was Wake Forest’s ball on
Davidson’s 32-yard line. Here the Deacons
began a drive, but were repulsed on the 16-
yard marker, and the ball wetit~over.

To begin the final chapter, the Deacons
were in possession of the ball in midfield.
A pass, Shinn to Myers, was good for 15
yards. Russell to Myers was then good for
12 and another first down, the Deacons hav-
ing the ball on Davidson’s 18-yard mark.
Wake Forest made another first down, plac-
ing ther on Davidson’s four-yard line with
first down and goal to go. Two bucks and
a lateral pass failed to gain, and then Myers
attempted a field goal from placement. It
was low and wide, the ball going to David-
son on their own 20-yard stripe. After an
exchange of punts, the Deacons started an-
other drive. Wake Forest had just gotten
a 15-yard penalty when Pearce took Shinn’s
pass out of the air and°ran 55 yards to a
touchdown, Peabody adding the extra point
from placement. Wake Forest’s passing at-
tack had been checked as the game ended.

The line-ups:

W. Forest . Position Davidson
Hardie L.E Morgan
Grant L.T. ---- Wagner
DeAngelis L.G.. Hand
Owens Center. --- McElrath
Hood RG._ Rives
Swann R.T.. - Whitfield
Green RE Morris
Wall Q.B Mackorell
Wilson L.H Peabody
Peters R.A .-- Pearce
Lawhorne KiBSe= - Willson
Scores by periods:
Wake Forest ---.-.---------! 0 0 0 O00
Davidson 0 0.0 77
Davidson scoring: Touchdown—Pearce.
Point after touchdown—Peabody (place-
kick).

Substitutes: Wake Forest—Holton, Shinn,
Russell, Myers, Swing, Griffin, Falkenburg,

THEY’RE MILDER

THEY TASTE BETTER

ook at that Ba yy XO

-

can be made.

the tobacco.

OU would be astonished too, if you
could see this machine that turns
out 750 Chesterfields a minute... and
every one as near perfect as ciparettes

But please bear this in mind. It is
what happens before the tobacco goes
into this machine, that matters most.
Rolling and packaging are important,
but not nearly as important as the
selection, blending and treatment of

<

=

© 195, LIGGETT & MyERs ToBACco Co,
That’s why we keep telling you about -
e tobaccos used in Chesterfields.
They’re fine, mild,
We tell you about ageing and curing

and pure tobaccos.

the tobaccos... about blending and

try a package.

cross-blending them ... because they
are things that count.

Chesterfields are milder. They taste
better. Prove it for yourself... Just

Chesterfield Radio Program— Every night ex-

cept Sunday, Columbia coast-to-coast Network.
