THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

The Silver Screen

Davidson 5 Years Ago

Wednesday, Oct. 12—Bill of Divorcement—
(RKO)

Director George Cukor has followed very
closely the stage play of the same name by
Clemence Dane, and with very good results.
All the major actors have had experience on
the stage and:Mr. Cukor was himself once
a stage director. As a result, this is a very
superior story resembling a play, but with
the necessary scope allowed to the camera.

John Barrymore is excellent as the war
veteran who escapes from an asylum where
he has been confined for fifteen years as a
result of shell-shock. When he returns to
his home he finds that all has changed; his
wife has divorced him and is about to marry
another man; his daughter whom he remeni-
bers as a little girl is also about to become
a bride. Upon learning of the strain. of
insanity in her father’s family, the daughter
gives up her marriage.

Katharine Hepburn, newly discovered by
RKO, plays the role of the daughter sin-
cerely and convincingly.

Thursday, Oct. 13—Love Me
(Paramount)

This picture directed by Ernst Lubitsch
possesses, perhaps even to a greater ex-
tent than earlier Chevalier pictures, that air
of light poetry and farce characteristic of
the French comedies of Rene Clair.

Chevalier, a tailor, woos and wins, in his
inimitable and entertaining way, a princess
(Jeanette MacDonald). The music is an
outstanding feature.

Tonight—

Friday, Oct. 14—Smiling Through

The rather sad story of lovers who are
held apart by actions which took place in
a preceding generation. The advent of the
war further complicates matters. In the
end, however, the cause of true love emerges
victorious over-all obstacles. f

Norma Shearer displays her usual abil-
ity, and Frederic\March and Leslie Howard
portray their roles ‘well. :

Saturday, Oct. 15—The™ Most Dangerous
Game (RKO) t

Originality seems to be the chief factor in
this picture.

Leslie Banks plays the part of a ‘Russian
who has become so satiated with lifé.that
he gets a thrill only out of hunting down
men, Banks undoubtedly takes the honors
of acting, but he is very ably supported by
the whole cast and by Joel McCrea espe-
cially,

Monday, Oct. 17—Hat Check Girl

Sally Eilers as a “hat check girl” in a
night club becomes involved with a boot-
legger, a gangster, and a scandal sheet writ-
er all in the process of a love affair with
Ben Lyon. Excitement is not lacking.

Tuesday, Oct. 18—Pack Up Your Troubles—
(M-G-M)
Laurel and Hardy in a full length comedy
guaranteed to make you “buck up.”
Stan_and Oliver find themselves unexpect-
edly in the trenches and then the riot begins.
Jacquie Lyn takes off her share of the
glory also.

The Bookshelf

“The Store’—By T. S. .Stribling.. Doubleday-
Doran. June, 1932 ($2.50).

Novels of the Old South are usually so
crammed with either saccharine sentimental-
ity or gnawing satire that one finishes them
with a distinctly nauseated feeling. From

“skétchy studies of withered negro mammies

they have begun lately to make a broad leap
at realism in its last throes.. Hence the de-
but of a book that seems to attempt to bring
forth neither tears nor gulps is a decidedly
blessed event. :

Such a book is “The Store.” A study of
Northern Alabama just after the Civil War,
it manages to make its characters happy
without being giddy, tragic without being
melodramatic, real without being repulsive.
Mr. Stribling makes his negroes individuals
without creating a potential tear-jerker in
each character; he makes his whites breathe
without giving Dr. Freud a few more pa-
tients}"he makes his South glamorous with-
out draping wisteria over a magnolia tree
every-hundred yards; he makes his story
move without a single negro baptism.

The .story concerns the rise of Miltiades
Vaiden to well-deserved notoriety just after
the Civil War. An; ex-overseer, he steals
some cotton and becomes moderately
wealthy, He is faced by the probleths that
confronted every Southerner just after the
war, namely the negro-poor white problem.
Mr. Stribling treats his (eerie with an
etching-needle’ exactness that recalls the
Russian masters of the’ last century. -We

_have,_for_.the first time,- an serving

appreciation of the negro’s side of this ques-
tion. The temptation of going North and

The proverbial Dope Bucket suffered what
was probably one of the most humiliating
days of its contrary existence, when the

”

“crossing over,” the impossible task of get-
ting along with the poor whites, the desite
to educate the ignorant blacks to a literate
level are all magnificently portrayed.

Underneath there is a strain of irony—
usually restrained, but sometimes reaching
the obvious heights of Ellen Glasgow... The
characterization of Ponny, Milt’s wife, is
executed with a profound sympathy, while
his second wife is treated with an ironic
kindness.

There is a noticeable absence of the usu-
ally exaggerated Southern gentility. This
may be deliberate, but the straightforward
tone of the book implies that the omission
was unintentional, The only family which
might be considered the cream of the Old
South is juggled around in tolerant satire.

Like Ibsen, Stribling makes no sugges-
tions as to the solutions to his problems.
He merely shows his readers the facts—and
then washes his hands of the whole thing—
except for the fact that he must have a pro-
found interest in the outcome of his prob-
lems—and throughout the whole book there
is an undertone of optimism—a wisp of haze
that some day these enigmas may be suit-
ably solved.

Davidson College Wildcats romped away
with a 12-0 victory over the University of
Florida ’Gators at Gainesville Saturday aft-
ernoon. Practically all of the 8,000 interested
spectators had predicted a drubbing for the
Wildcats, who were too fast in their tearing,
ripping, clawing tactics for the heavy Flor-
ida team, which wilted away when the Da-
vidson team opened its drive in the second
quarter.

This was one of the games added to the
Davidson schedule in the process of widen-
ing their field of play. Down in the Sun-
shine State they are talked about as the
team from somewhere up in North Carolina
and the thin red Ime that seemed to be built
of steel, 80 hard was it to break,

Red and black blazers will be worn by
this year’s Senior class. This was decided
by a very large majority at a recent meeting.
They will have inch and _ three-quarter
stripes. This form of garb for Senior distinc-

r i]

.. GET
U-Push-Ems
At

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

,—D. W. Hollingsworth.

tion is very much in contrast to that of
last year’s Seniors, derbys;and canes.

Davidson 10 Yeats Ago

A rumor has been spread over the campus
that Dr. Frazer, president of Queens Col-
lege, has consented to the proposition of a
special train for the girls to visit Davidson
on Home-Coming Day, October 21. We find,
however, that the rumor was started by a
dreamer in the historic damicile of Rumple.

Now that the rumor has been started, it’s
up to the 540 Davidson students to get that
trainload of Queens girls up here. Dr. Fra-

zer has proven himself a very reasonable
man on many occasions, and we believe that
he will sanction a request to allow’his beau-
ties to come over and beautify our campus
for just one short day. Think what it
would mean to the student body. and espe-
Gially to the team with such an audience
of beauty to spur them on. Come on up,
Queens, and give Davidson the “Once Over.”

Golf enthusiasts at Davidson will welcome
the news that the course is being cleaned,
and inside of a week it will be in fair con-
dition. , It is hoped that continued interest

will be shown as two matches are scheduled
with nearby teams to get a line on the ma-
terial: for the year.

117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

'

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

A. M. MANSON

—and raw tobaccos
have no place in cigarettes

They are 70¢ present in Luckies
... the mildest cigarette
you ever smoked

va

YE buy the finest, the very

finest tobaccos in all the
world —but that does not
explain why folks every-
where regard Lucky Strike as
the mildest cigarette. The fact
is, we never overlook the
truth that “Nature in the
Raw is Seldom Mild”—so

“If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon,or make a better
build bis bouse in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to bis
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?

THE
FORT DEARBORN
MASSACRE

"Nature in the Raw”—as
portrayed by the artist, N. C.
Wyeth ... inspired by the
heartless treachery of a band
of vicious Miami Indians,
who massacred the settlers
with inhuman ferocity ...
August 15, 1812.

me

these fine tobaccos, after
proper aging and mellowing,
are then given the benefit of
that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the
words—“‘It’s toasted”. That’s
why folks in every city, town
and hamlet say that Luckies
are such mild cigarettes.

“It's toasted”
That package of mild Luckies

mouse-trap than bis neighbor, the be
door.’’—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

C

