THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Dr. C. M. Richards
Have Consented to Umpire the Faculty-
Senior Baseball Game at Commencement

This Classic Contest Will Be Staged
on Alumni Day, June Ist, and May
Become Annual Event of
Graduation

OTHER APPOINTMENTS
Admission Price Will Be a Dime, for

Purchase of Baseballs and Lini-
ment, Say Managers

Ten cents for the ‘purchase of baseballs and
liniment will be the price of admission to the
Davidson Faculty-Senior Class baseball game
which will be the classic event here on Alumni
Day, Wednesday, June 1st, of Commencement.
For the past several years the faculty and
Seniors have participated in a series of diamond
tilts, and after deliberating with one: another
during the past few weeks, it was decided to
perform before the visiting alumni this year. If
it proves successful it will be made an annual
affair.

Managers, coaches and captains of the op-
posing clubs consider it quite a feather in their
caps that they have obtained the positive and
definite consent of Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of
Davidson, to call balls and strikes that day,
and Dr. C. M. Richards, of the Bible depart-
ment, to umpire bases. Both of these men are
ardent baseball followers, thoroughly know the
game, and can be depended upon to make un-
biased decisions, even though their overwhelm-
ing sympathy may be with the faculty.

Profs. H. E. Fulcher, Fred L. Blythe and
J. T. Kimbrough will be manager, coach and
captain, not respectively, of the faculty aggre-
gation, and orders issuing from the headquar-
ters of this trio are that training rules for the
faculty will go into effect on May 1st, and that
there are to be from two to six practices a
‘week, depending upon the laxity of muscles.
No disclosure has been made as to the context
of the training rules which will be invoked, but
it is expected that they will be rigid and exact-
ing. of the professors.

On the basis of past experience in faculty-

senior baseball games, the faculty managers are
preparing to have a bevy of heavers on hand,
in order that they will have sufficient 12place-
ments if a hurler breaks before an inning is
over. Last year, the faculty held a substantial
lead over their opponents until the sixth in-
ning, when their repertoire of pitchers was
exhausted, and the seniors forged ahead to a
decisive and humiliating defeat of their former
tutors. ,
_ At present, there are four possible offerings
for the mound, and it is believed that this
quartet will hold the soon-to-be-alumni in check
if their teammates and colleagues can handle the
willow effectively enough to give the faculty
a lead which it will be well-nigh impossible for
the budding seniors to overcome.

Three right-handers and one port-sider will
be working out during the next month in an
endeavor to get a call for mound duty. Included
in the group will be Fred W. Hengeveld, reg-
istrar of Davidson, and former Wildcat hurler
and pitcher for the Little Rock, Ark., club;
Prof. J. T. Kimbrough, one-time Davidson slab
artist, and Prof. W. N. Mebane, the deceptive
port-sider, and Dr. C. K. Brown. Both Mebane
and Brown have seen considerable service in
previous games,

Around the initial bag will be hovering Prof.
J. P. Williams, elongated professor of business
administration; Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, of
the department of physica! education, and Pro-
fessor Mebane, in case the latter is not in suffi-
cient form for pitching duty. Professor Wil-
liams gets the insidé track from a fielding
standpoint, because of the several-foot reach he
has which will enable him to take care of the
overhead’ throws of the infield. However, the
faculty managers feel that the best hitter of
the three will have the advantage, because a
few errors will be permissible if the faculty can
' counter-attack with a number of tallies.

Should Hengeveld show sufficient ability to
oust other candidates for mound performance,
F. D. Hobart, superintendent of the groups,
will have a positive grip on the keystone posi-
In previous games, Hobart has demon-
rated his ability to cover a lot of territory,
id.also has better than usual control once he
scooped the liners from seniors’ bats.

if will give Professor Blythe the hot

ELLE

possibilities has assigned Kimbrough and Blythe
to third base, and should Kimbrough fail to
qualify as a hurler, that position is left wide
open to Professor Blythe. If Kimbrough is wild
and Blythe ousts him from third, he and Cap-
tain Pritchett will fight it out for the shortstop
berth. Captain Pritchett is also a candidate for
first, but he has Mebane and Williams to con-
tend with there. His shifty ability might give
the Captain a first choice for shortstop, because
of past experience and a good batting eye.
When it comes to the outfield, the managers
have a large number from which to choose the
occupants of the outer gardens. At present, the
most potent candidates are Dr. Geo. B. Watts,
Frank R: Brown, Robert W. McCullough,
Frank L. Jackson, Dr. Price HaGwynn, Prof.
H. T. Lilly, and Prof. O. J. Thies.

They also gave out for publication the fol-
lowing list of other men who will be candidatés
for outfield posts: Dr. Fraser Hood, Prof. W.
L. Porter, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Prof. W. W.
Wood, Prof. K. J. Foreman, Dr. G. R. Vowles,
Dr. W.. P. Cumming, Capt. W. L. Blanton,
Prof. L. B. Schenck, and Carl Pritchett...
The managers are determined that the faculty-
senior game will have all of the earmarks of
both the professional and college baseball. With
that end in view they have made a number of
appointments, all of ‘whom have accepted so
far, and within the next few days they expect
to see every member of the faculty and assign
him his duties at the game.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson,
has been appointed trainer for the club, and
Prof. Archibald Currie will be czar of baseball
that day, a position kindred to that held by
Kennesaw Mountain Landis. In case of a par-
ticularly heated argument, Dr. J. Moore Mc-
Connell will be called in as arbitrator.

The attending physician will be Dr. J. Wilson
MacConnell, but no ambulance driver has been
appointed. Should this be necessary, one of
the players warming the bench, or a member
of the faculty in the cheering section, which
will be composed of Dr. C. R. Harding and
Dr. W. R. Grey, wilf be detailed for that duty.
Dr. S. C, Lyon has accepted the post of head
cheerleader for the day, and he will be assisted
in his contortions by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and
Prof. Ernest A. Beaty. A touch of the football
game is brought into being when it is an-
nounced that the waterboys ‘for the day will
be Dr. G. R. Vowles and Capt. F. M. Cochran.
It was felt htat it was too much to ask two
men to act in the capacity of both bat-boys and
waterboys. The bat-boys will be Dr. Thomas
W. Lingle and Capt. Chas. W. Seifert.

Col. W. R. Scott will patrol the fence to see
that all alumni members of the “D” club do
not gain entrance by scaling the barbed wire,
and will call into assistance any loiterers that
he thinks can be trusted with this assignment.
Ticket sellers will be Dr. J. M. Douglas and
Prof. E. J. Erwin, and the two ticket takera,will
be David Caldwell and Dr. E. F. Shewmake.
The proceeds will be of such an enormous
amount, it is believed by the managers, that an
accountant will be necessary after the close of
the game, and to this has been assigned Dr.
J. L. Douglas, since the two regular accountants,
Williams and Jackson, are candidates for the
nine. M. W. McGill will be the auditor, check-
ing and double-checking the tabulation sheet un-
til it balances in acceptable fashion to the fac-
ulty members who make applications for por-
tions of the fund for liniment.

Sergeants Kirby and Burton will furnish
peanuts and soft drittiks to the visitors free of
charge (?). (Neither of the two sergeants has

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson of Long Ago

April 19, 1928
J. R. Covington, of Raeford, will be the
editor of the 1929 annual. He won this honor
in the recent election, defeating R. W. Grady.

The election of the Student Council men
brought the spring elections to a close. The
Juniors elected Monroe Gilmour as président
and M. C. McQueen as vice-president of their
class. The Sophomores elected Zeb Long, presi-
dent; Heath Whittle, vice-president, and Bill
McQuire, secretary and treasurer.

Whittle was the only wearer of the Red and
Black to place in the recent Tech relays. He
came in second in the 220 low hurdles.

Alfred E. Smith defeated Herbert C. Hoover
in the Presidential poll held on the campus by
the Davidsonian. Governor Smith got a plural-
ity of thirty-two votes over Secretary Hoover.
The faculty picked Hoover. Over eighty per
cent of the student hody voted in the straw
election.

Davidson’s tennis team, winner of the inter-
collegiate doubles championship of North Caro-
lina for®three consecutive years, beat the Get-
tysburg netmen Saturday, 6-0. Roddey, Halver-
stadt, Johnston, and Carr of Davidson com-
posed the team.

April 19, 1923

W. T. Jones has been elected. president of the
Y. M. C. A. for the 1923-24 session of school.

The Sophomore class of ’25 staged a bril-
liant affair in Charlotte last night. Piggy Mar-
tin acted as toastmaster for the occasion. Harry
Price, class historian, gave a history of the
first two years of the class.

Red McComb forgot to take his bathing suit
to Raleigh and so he couldn’t enter the two-
mile swim. It was a pity, because he was so
anxious to get in on the distances.

The resignation of A. M. Hillhouse as foot-
ball manager, subsequent to the student body
presidency election, has caused W. Z. Bradford
te be shifted to the football managership, while
J. I. Smith receives the position of manager
of basketball.

April 17, 1918
Those who follow the plow will not be ex-
empt from exams. Last year the ‘Farmer
Boys” were permitted to leave college and farm
because of the war, but not so this year. They
will have to stay here just like the “City
Slickers.”

W. M. Currie was elected president of the
Ministerial Band last Sunday night. D. M.
Chalmers, vice-president, and R. C. Clontz, sec-
retary and treasurer.

Major J. W. MacConnell gave an interesting
talk on the’Y. M. C. A. work in the training
camps at the Y. M. C. A. meeting. Major Mac-
Connell was a former member of the Davidson
College faculty.

John Roddey, ’23, is now associated with his
father in the management of the W. J. Roddey
Agency, in a reorganization perfected by W. J.
Roddey, for 34 years manager for South Caro-
lina and Western North Carolina of Equitable
Life Assurance Society.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, of Chapel Hill, has
been ,elected chairman of the North Carolina
Historical Commission. He has been a member
of that body since 1907, and was winner of the

Mayflower. Society. cup in 1931.

@

°

o

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.

e

~¢ “to handle. A preliminary outlining of the

Nw

(

| ALUMNI PERSONALS

the past week have been F. E. Hashagen, Jr.,
07, Gastonia; A. T. Walker, ’07, Greensboro;
Rey. J. W. Foster, ’12, Cooleemee; J. H.
Gentry, 13, Advance; Rev. C. D. Whiteley, ’14,
Albemarle; Rev. Smiley Williams, ’14, Welch,
W. Va.; M. D. Thomasson, ’25, Charlotte; T.
R. Nunan, ’30, Crossnore; J. C. Laurence, ’30,
Smithfield, and J. D. McCall, ’31, Gastonia.

Friends will regret to learn of the following
deaths: Mrs. D. F. Cannon, sister of T. B.
Brown, ‘85, of Salisbury; Miss Jennie Alex-
ander, sister of J. B. Alexander, ’88, of Char-
lotte; Mrs. W. B. Gaither, mother of W. C.
Gaither, ’21, of Newton; Mrs. Annie E. Hall,
mother of R. D. Hall, 19, and M. N. Hall, Jr.,
'28, both of Belmont, and Rev. M. S. Kennedy,

Due to business connections in Gastonia, W.
B. Garrison, ’20, will not be a candidate to suc-
ceed himself as a member of the Mecklenburg
County Board of Commissioners. Mr. Garri-
son’s term expires in December, 1932.

Robert A. Gordon, ’25, is one of the man-
agers of a Jefferson Standard Life Insurance
Agency that has been opened in Gastonia. Mr.
Gordon ue been connected with the Spencer
Lumber Company for the past four years.

A. S. Rose, ’28, who is completing his medical
training at Harvard University this year, will
serve his interneship at the Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital, Boston, Mass. Mr. Rose studied
under a fellowship at Harvard this year.

Davidson alumni on the program of the North
Carolina Medical Society, which is now holding
‘ts annual session in Winston-Salem are Dr.
J. K. Burns, ’15, of Gainesville, Ga.; Dr. J. R.
Alexander, ’93, of Charlotte, and Dr. John T.
Zurrus, 1900, of High Point. Dr. Burrus is
ywesident of the North Carolina State Board of
Health.

The date for the wedding of Chas. A. Sisson.
31, now a law student at Harvard, and Miss
Tone Calhoon, of Grenada, Miss., has been set
for June 30th. Miss Calhoun was graduated
‘rom Ward-Belmont School at Nashville, Tenn..
ind attended the American Academy of Dram-
atic Art in New York City.

Jas. C. Harper, ’15, principal of Lenoir High
School and director of the Lenoir High School
Band, and Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, president of
Lees-McRae College, are financial‘advisors for
‘he Southern Appalachian Music Camp for high
school musicians of the South, which will be
opened for the first time this summer at Ban-
ner Elk. Associated with them in the direction
of the camp are some of the leading musicians
in the South, and it has been arranged to meet
a demand of those who cannot attend a national
music encampment.

Rey. Albert C. Wildman, ’24, who has been
pastor of a Louisvile, Ky., Presbyterian Church
for several years, will go to Booneville, Ky.,

D.D., father of M. S., Jr., ’18, of Pulaski, Tenn.-

Among alumni visitors at Davidson during the latter part of this month, where he will do

mountain work.

Davidson alumni elected to office at recent
Presbytery meetings include Dr. C. M. Rich-
ards, '92, of Davidson, moderator of Concord
Presbytery; Rev. R. H. Stone, ’18, of Jeffer-
son, permanent clerk for Winston-Salem Pres-
bytery; Rev. W. S. Golden, 13, of Carthage,
moderator of Fayetteville Presbytery, and Rev.
W.. A. Nicholson, ’06, of Pineville, temporary
clerk of Mecklenburg Presbytery. When a full
list of commissioners elected to the General As-
sembly at Montreat is published, the names of
Davidson alumni chosen will be given in these
columns.

The Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company has transferred Glenn A. Price, ’29
from Owensboro, Ky., to Madisonville, Ky.

’

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., ’18, of Charleston, has
had more than one hundred articles and stories
appearing in 14 magazines and several newspa-
pers during the past four years. Some eight or
ten writings are scheduled to appear this spring
and summer in such magazines as The Ameri-
can Legion Weekly, Holland’s, Blue Book and
two juvenile publications. It is definitely known
that Holland’s will run another story in its
June issue.

Rev. W. M. McLeod, ’22, of Pinehurst, was a
speaker before the second annual meeting of
the Presbyterian Young People’s League when
it met last week at Raeford.

Engagement

Fox-Grey

“Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Fox announce the
engagement and approaching marriage of their
daughter, Beatrice, to William Richard Grey,
Jr., of New York, N. Y., the wedding to take
place on Saturday, May 7th, at the Moravian
Chapel, Heckewelder Place, Bethlehem, Pa.”.

Mr. Grey, better known as Dick Grey, is a
native of the town of Davidson and is a 1928
graduate of this institution. Since June of that
year he has been connected with the personal
trust department of the Chase National Bank
in New York City. Miss Fox is a Phi Beta
Kappa graduate of Mount Holyoke College,
Massachusetts, and since her graduation she has
been doing chemical work in New York.

A Complete Service

for School Publications

Yonuals
DMetnearzines
Catalous

Jieu Books
Queen Cily Printing Co.

Charlotte. 2.

yeh 1OUS

4
Pe

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“WET PARADE”

with
DOROTHY JORDAN

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“THE WORLD AND THE FLESH”
with
GEORGE BANCROFT

SATURDAY

“YOUNG AMERICA”
_ with
SPENCER TRACY

