THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

GOLFERS TAKE
EXTENDED
SOUTHERN TRIP

THE SPORTS PARADE

TENNIS TEAM

MEETS
SOUTH CAROLINA

°

Who said there was a depression? You can’t
prove it by Davidson College. The debating
team has gone on a trip north to Pennsylvania,
the golf team has gone south to Georgia and
Florida, the Rotsey department is sending rep-
resentatives to St. Louis, the president will
probably be off on some good-will tour ere
long . . . and meanwhile, the rest of us will
stay at home and work to pay off the mortgage
on the ole homestead.

When the boys begin to play indoor base-
ball on the outside, which they are doing to-
day, then we may know that spring has
truly come. Cavorting gayly around the
dusty arena betwixt Georgia, Chambers, the
gym, and the barracks, they lift their voices
in lusty triumph as some Lilliputian Thor
swings his puny hammer and knocks a
spherical bit of horsehide-covered sawdust
into the air. Oh to be a kid again!

Although Davidson golf teams have in the
past usually managed to trim their opponents by
decisive margins, the loss of the two veterans,
Sparrow Mills and Jack Pepper, has somewhat
weakened the team, and the 1932 foursome failed
to defeat the Generals of Washington and Lee.
On the other hand, a defeat of 11% to 6% is by
no means ignominious, and Jack Wagner, cap-
tain, played practically on even terms with
young Billy Howell, who, incidentally, advanced
to the semi-finals in the national amateur tour-
nament last year.

What a tough break to lose a baseball
game in the ninth inning! The ’Cats dis-
played a good brand of ball playing last
week against Lenoir-Rhyne and had main-
tained a 2-0 lead up to the ninth inning, only
to weaken and let three runs go by.

These ’Cats have a peculiar habit of incon-
sistent playing which often proves disastrous
as we have seen in the past two weeks. When
they play well they play practically perfectly,
but wheh they're off their game .. . well, that’s
another story. In Winston-Salem on Easter
Monday this writer had the pleasure of wit-
nessing the Davidson-Carolina game. With the
exception of a first inning nightmare in which
Carolina scored six runs, the ’Cats played good
ball, fielding well (except for one incident quite
a bit back of first base which we shall omit),
and hitting the Tar Heel pitcher’s bullet ball
at will. The game ended 7-8. The ’Cats should
have won this game.

There are baseball teams and football
teams ... golf teams and tennis teams...
basketball teams and wrestling teams. But
the team whose membership has shown the
most recent rapid increase is the Pan-Hel-
lenic team . . . that is, if one may judge by
the number of letters received around here
lately. ... ‘

On Wednesday the tennis team will officially
open its schedule with the University of South
Carolina, the match to be played here. Opening
matches seldom prove the calibre of a team, but
this match should show some indication of the
relative strength of the Wildcat tennis team. If
this team should be as successful as last year’s,
we shall be more than satisfied.

The Davidson-University of Florida track
meet proved quite interesting and showed
that prospects for the Wildcat cindermen are
good indeed, the feature of the meet being
the breaking of the school vaulting record
by Billy Flinn, who established a new rec-
ord of 11 feet, 6 inches.

Salt Lake City, Utah—(IP)—Dr. Herbert
B. Maw, dean of the University of Utah, re-
cently aided in the capture of a gunman whom
he saw shooting at a citizen in the downtown

section here.

Knox and McMillan
Star as Blacks Win |

Reds Defeated by Blacks in Track
Meet by 103-86 Score

Two teams picked from the varsity and
Freshman track squads held a meet of their
own last Saturday afternoon on Richardson
Field. The Blacks, captained by Knox, won by
a 10314 to 86% score over Brannon’s Reds.

Knox and McMillan tied for high point hon-
ors, both winning first place in two events. The
Blacks took eight first places, while the Reds
won the remaining six.

The results were as follows:

220-yard dash—McMillan (B), 24.5.

Mile—Earle (R), 4:52.1.

100-yard dash—McMillan (B), 10.8.

High hurdles—Pratt (R) 17.1.

440-yard dash—Halyburton (B), 53.6.

Low hurdles—McCallie (B), 28.2.

880-yard run—Dulin (R), 2:15.3.

Pole vault—Flinn (R), 10 ft. 6 in.

Shot—Knox (B), 38 ft. 11% in.

Discus—Knox (B) 117 ft. 3 in.

High jump—Martin (B), 5 ft. 8 in.

Broad jump—Little, 20.6.

Javelin—Brown (R), 142 ft. 1 in.

Two-mile—Brannon (R), 10:18.

Elon Loses to ’Cats
8 to 4 on Diamond

On March 29 the Wildcats defeated the Elon
Christians in a spirited baseball game by the
score of 8 to 4. The Wildcats got off to a good
start in the opening inning and scored two runs,
a pass to Bernhardt and a wild throw by Wa-
ters, both men scoring, when Waters heaved
Bradsher’s bunt wild to first. Elon tallied one
in the first inning and tied the score in the
second. In the fifth the Christians scored two
more runs which put them in the lead. David-
son came back in the sixth with three tallies
and won the game when three more Wildcats
scampered home in the ninth.

Croker allowed the Christians six hits while
the Wildcats took twelve from the Elon pitch-
ers. Both teams showed quite a bit of loose
fielding, but at times looked very good.

Davidson Ab R HOA
Bernhardt, 3b) ~.-a--.-.2---- Shute lad Leahey
Bradshets: Ch: con sessesesce Yee heya. ()
IMGlISHe Sots oe Sees cee see eso Se 2 al
Mathisvctt: ssscccesol os laae Ac 0F 20 0)
Whitley cess seunecgeeee seb ee ali bk 2G
Blantonwep res eee eee essen 20 ONO at 2
MOntisonpoltsssss24o5 sucess dele u O05),
Reabodylb 2sece25 5 sec ee tee ke (I)
Groketap) sscesecs sesnee eso 1 30 3)

Motals) 2 Bese seas eee 40 8 12 27 11

Flon Ab R H'O A
Roberts Cis cee eon eae Oe le se Oeer 4a()
Abernethyiceb) c2cecss oe se4 3:20 109. 3
Gaddellirsbs ses ses eres ib ee Oe lal
Glatlee ri 2ereces = ee eles bed ss) |
Williams) lp s222-- See co lak Ca bee V4aa aN)
Reibenn s@e sos eta le 2a 2
Nacksoni oft see.22. coca 50 S22 4 0e AOR al 20
Ghatidletmc 22223222 sees 523: .01:-0) 42 2.
Wiatersap 2252s 2-2 osc oe 1000 23
Miatiitep) soses2sosecec= ae (AEA EAN il bal
xheoples: oskser- sees ss 12007720520

Motalspss22 22522 oes 31.4 #6 27 14

xBatted for Mann in ninth.

Score by innings:
Davidson: cesses te ee es 200 003 003—8
Elon 110 020 000—4

Summary: Errors—Mills (2), Blanton, Aber-
nathy, Caddell, Reiber, Chandler, Waters, Mann.
Three-base hits—Mills, Abernathy. Two-base
hit—Peabody. Stolen bases—Bernhardt (2),
Mathis (2), Williams (1). Sacrifice hits—Bern-
hardt (1), Williams (1), Reiber (2). Double
play—Bernhardt, unassisted. Bases on balls—
off Croker 10; off Waters 3; off Mann 1.
Struck out—by Croker 6; by Waters 2; by
Mann 0. Hits—off Croker 6 in 9 innings; off
Waters 9 in 6 innings; off Mann 4 in 3 innings.
Left on bases—Davidson 7; Elon 9. Passed
ball—Chandler. Hit by pitcher-——-Waters, Chand-
ler (by Croker); Peabody (by Mann). Win-
ning pitcher—Croker. Losing pitcher—Waters.

Umpire—Cy Morgan. Time of game—1 :50.

Florida Downs Wildcat

Track Team in Exciting
Meet on Davidson Field

Joe Hall Scores 23 Points to Lead
’Gators in Victory Over
Davidson

The University of Florida made a final rally
last Wednesday to defeat the Davidson track-
sters on Richardson Field, 74 to 52. The three-
point difference in the scores of an exciting
meet was broadened to a wider margin when
Florida took all three places in both the high
jump and half-mile run.

Joe Hall, national Decathlon competitor, had
a great deal to do with winning the meet by
capturing 23 points for Florida, Fleagle, flash-
ing Davidson sprinter, was second high scorer
with 10 points. Flinn also starred for Davidson,
breaking his old record in the pole vault and
taking second place in the broad jump.

Summary :

100-yard dash—Fleagle (D), Small (1°), Par-
nell (F). Time, 9.9 sec.

220-yard dash—Fleagle (ID), Small (F), Me-
Millan (D). Time, 22.5 sec.

Mile run—Calmes (1),
(IF). Time, 4:40.5.

120-yard high hurdles—Hall (1°), Pratt (D),
McCallie (D). Time, 16.2.

440-yard run—Herrick (IF),
lyburton (D). Time, 52.7.

Two-mile run—Brannon
Earle (D). Time, 10:23.5.

220-yard low hurdles—McCallie (D), Hall
(F), Little (D). Time, 26.9.

880-yard run—Smith (1),
Jones (F). Time, 2:8.3.

Shot put—Hall (F), Cochran (D), Wagner
(D). 43 ft. 11 in.

Discus throw—Jenkins (F), Hall (I), Coch-
ran (D). 130 ft. 6 in.

Javelin throw—Parnell
Johnston (D). 162 ft. 11 in.

Pole yvault—Flinn (D), (D), Spen-
cer (F). 11 ft. 6 in. (new record).

High jump—Harvey (1), Sadler (I), Hall
(F). 5 ft. 11 in.

Broad jump—Hall
(D). 21 ft. 4 1-4 in.

Earle (D), Smith

Jones (TF), Hal-
(D), Calmes (F),

Schwab (F),

(F), (D),

Brown

Poane

(FF), Flinn (D), Little

Davidson ’Cats Lose

To Duke Power Nine

The Dtike Power Company baseball nine of
River Bend broke a knotted game here in the
ninth inning to defeat the Davidson College
Wildcats 9 to 6. A base on balls, a single by
J. Rhyne, a triple by Mclean and a_ squeeze
play broke the 6-6 count which was tied in the
eighth when Whitley hit a homer for the Wild-
cats. The score was tied three different times.

Pearce and Sherrill opposed. each other on
the mound for the full route. whiffed
seven of the visitors but allowed four passes.
The latter, coupled with the timely hitting of
the Power boys, were Pearce’s undoing, “They
bunched hits in the sixth and ninth brackets
plus two free passes to score three runs in
each,

Sherrill surrendered ten hits compared to the

Pearce

eleven Pearce allowed, but the visiting heaver
kept them well scattered. Davidson's inability
to hit in the pinches resulted in 11 men left
on bases.

Whitley, Davidson, catcher, who played but
half’ the game, featured in the hitting, getting
two safe blows out of two trips. Davidson's
fielding was almost perfect compared vw un-
merous miscues of the visitors.

Score by innings:

Duke Power -..-------------.--000 113.103—9
Davidson 101 021 010—6

When every country has set up tariff barriers
there will be no trade.—Sir Ronald Lindsay.

By mastering resignation we school ourselves
to much restraint—Rafael Sabatini.

As for married teachers, marriage is not a}

misdemeanor, and nowadays no one can guar-
antee a husband can keep his job.—Miss M. H.

A

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

Buckley.
Q
“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

|Lenoir-Rhyne Downs
| Wildcat Nine on Friday

|
|
| Visitors Score Three Runs in Ninth to
Gain 3 to 2 Victory
Lenoir-Rhyne, after being held scoreless for
jeight innings, staged a comeback in the ninth
Ito turn defeat into victory and beat the David-
son Wildcats 3 to 2 on Richardson Field last
Friday.

Three bases on balls, two off Baily and one
off Pearce who relieved him, coupled with two
singles off Pearce, gave the visitors their three
runs,

Baily, due to his wildness, found himself in
several tight holes during the first eight in-
nings, but each time pulled through without

yielding a score.

Lenoir-Rhyne Ab R H O
MOGs itivcce ee acer cee oee2 0 0220
Newton tis -occeecs eee 222 40 0820220
HVaNeltaGDescaccccssscoasse 40 02 ss 0
Weittlercet oc occ sce ese cos cae 20) Oe 48
HtignesnCsesscasusecsoccsues (ete Eats |
Barkley cesveccocwascsccd 0) el llea0
Bites cece oc cu suest scenes OPOee da aS
QOvercash; 2b: coccdcccdcasse Ber 0256) lee
Mittal cD eceosennsetees OF 0) 080
Mesiinetentsedenceseccocuct Ol O00
SAndens oD concccosececuccoe (0) 70) le 0
StetlerGlf cccecg owes 2s: Se le 00
Rueben ecco tecaucccbe es ON cee

MotalS eo eke O ea e/a Ze

Davidson Ab R H O A
Bernhardt, 3b ~------------- gare Uae tec) Wits |
Btaushtine Ghesesceurocussce UA cee I)
Millswisesuer coe ccc ce ee els3 10 ON i4as
MathiniticeccccccsnosasscesA. Ore Wola)
IMOMisOl it caceocsoocwsoe ce 4020s. lee 0
MIAIONT 6D; doaunesecunsnece Ale gle. 2
MOTs OC catsecascudecounas 402 le ae a!
PEADOUV) sD eoauccans-ncece Ql el eea(
Bailveipicctencsecscescesaese = 070 320716
Rbacay prcccscccssseecaocoe Oars e0e

A Deal wi koopa YY dae Fes a

Batted for Newton in ninth.
Score by innings :

x

Lenoir-Rhyne —~----------------000 000 0033
DavitSon seseecceese sous sees =50107 010 000==2

Errors: Little, Barkley, Buff (4), Overeash,
Kiser’ (2), Blanton, Home run, Blanton, Two
base hit, Little. Sacrifices, Mills, Baily. Stolen
bases, Buff, Mathis, Blanton. Double plays,
Overeash to Buff to Barkley, Mills to Blanton.
Bases on balls, off Baily 6; off Pearce 2. Struck
out, by Kiser 1; by Baily 5; by Pearce 2. Hits,
off Baily 6 with no runs in eight innings (none
out.in ninth) ; off Pearce, 1 with 3 runs in one
inning. Losing pitcher, Pearce. Umpire, Bran-
don,

Communism can be a menace to capitalism
only if capitalism cannot solve its problem.

Dr. Herbert von Beckerath.

Four Out of Five College Men
Visit Our Shop

Beyond the Bank

Johnson’s

Barber Shop

or

W. and L. Generals Win
Over Davidson Golfers

At Charlotte Golf Club

| Billy Howell, National Amateur Sen-
| sation in 1931 Tournament, Aids
Visitors in Victory

Aided the scintillating performance of
young Billy Howell, the Washington and Lee
golfers decisively defeated the Wildcat team last
| week by a score of 11% to 6'%4 at the Charlotte
| Country Club. Billy Howell, nationally known
jas a result of his sparkling play in last year’s
!national amateur tournament, was matched with
| Jack Wagner, Davidson captain. Both shot con-
sistently fine golf, but Howell’s game showed
a bit more finesse and polish, and he emerged
victor only after a heated struggle. The score
of this match was three up and two to go. For
the thirty-six holes played, Howell had a medal
of 151 strokes, outpointing Wagner by

by

score
five.

Mac Manson, playing number twe for the
‘Cats, defeated Jack Guggenheim of the Gener-
als for three points. John D. McConnell and
Winfred Donham broke even and Tom Cald-
well lost by 2% points to Henry Cohen of
'W, and L.

The Wildeats lost in both foursome matches.
Howell and Johnny Schroeder paired up and
defeated Wagner and McConnell two out of

_|three points; and Cohen and Donham of W.

and LL. got together to drop Manson and Cald-
well 2% points. The matches were well run
off and a sizeable gallery followed the play.

Wildcat Tennis Team
Opens Season Today

On Wednesday, April 6, the Davidson tennis
team will open its season with a game with the
University of South Carolina here. University
of South Carolina were state champions last

_|year and are expected to be almost as good

this year. The Davidson team is also good and
a heated battle will probably be the result.

DavfttSon's team in the singles will consist of
Lafferty, Calder, Myers, TEntoe,
Halverstadt.

Roddey and

In the doubles it will be the same, paired as
follows: Calder and Myers, nloe and Roddey,
Lafferty and Halverstadt. Calder will be the
acting captain for Davidson and the games will
begin about 2:30.

The educated American is profoundly skep-
tical about machines, inclined to regard every
invention as obsolescent as soon as it has been
made, but naively trustful about political plati-
tudes or philosophical half-truths and almost
sheeplike in his acceptance of social conven-

tion.—-Lord [Eustace Percy:

@) Complete Service

forSchool Publications

Jonuals
Mernazines
Catatous

Dieu Books
Queen Cily PrintingCo.

Charlolte. D.C.

J O JONES CO
“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
TO COLLEGE MEN
208 South Tryon Street Charlotte

