THE DAVIDSONIAN, : FEBRUARY 3, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

The Harbormaster. William McFee.

In any discussion of a book, the task seems
futile unless the hand that wrote it is also
known. William McFee, an author who has
but few times emerged on the crest of literary
fame in his interesting and somewhat chaotic

career, was born at sea in 1881, in a little three-

masted square rigger, the Erin’s Isle, of which
his father, was designer, builder, owner and
master. Despite efforts to give William a ter-
restial footing, his spirit took to sea when he
became of age and at 24 McFee took a berth
as a junior engineer on one of his iincle’s ships,
the Rotherfield, and sailed for Genoa.

To one who was born at sea, lived on the
sea, and loved the sea, we might well contrib-
ute such an accurate chronicle of the seamen
as is depicted in the Harbourmaster. He has
laid his scenes in both the Mediterranean and
the Carribean, with a good deal of London and

New York thrown in to, give-a totally rich |
background. He uses an old method of one man |

narrating the entire story.»Of course it is hard
to conceive of one telling such a long coherent
story out of his.own mind, extemporaneously,
but this is all quite forgotten in the enjoyment
of Mr. Spenlove’s own, unique, personality.
Though Mr. Spenlove contends the story is
about Captain Fraley and his beautiful French
wife, who came up out of the Agean sea like
a goddess of old—one of those blessed beings
who came into our lives from another world

and play the devil with them. Yet it is the!

story of old Spenlove,.the cynical salt who is

only the innocent bystander but always gets hit. |

Captain Fraley and his beautiful wife had
always been the object of public interest and
gaze, probably on account of the generous wife.
They had both been buried just recently down
in Puerto, Balboa, and Mr. Spenlove’s ship lay
at anchor in the harbor of Puerto Balhoa.

Everyone’ who visited that country heard of |

Captain Fraley and now more than ever, Mr.
Spenlove was prevailed on to tell this ever-
interesting story of how Captain Fraley met his
wife.

So he began at the beginning when he and
Fraley first formed a friendship in England.

Frank Fraley met the girl who lived just across
the hallway and fell in love with her. The court-
ship lasted a long time, the engagement lasted
longer only to tell Frank that he was not meant
to marry Emily Simpson. War came on, carry-
ing Spenlove and Fraley to the Mediterranean,
where they were stationed in Salonika. Fraley
was then captain and Spenlove, chief engineer

of the Glorioso, fitted out now with guns and}

torpedo shaft to combat submarines in the Med-
iterranean.

Because of brief space and limited time we
will have to hurry through the stary, barely
mentioning Theroigne le Grand, a night club
beauty, whom Fraley escaped barely whole, ad-
ventures at the Olympiina, torpedoing boats,
ramming submarines and the like. But it was
on one of those black stormy nights on the Med-
iterranean when the Glorioso was signalled by
a ship in distress. Captain Fraley maneuvered
his boat to pick up refugees after one lifeboat
had emptied its contents. and they were strug-
gling up the iron steps, Captain. Fraley saw her
come up, the last one, and as she came on deck,
her last supply of strength gave way, and she
fell into Captain Fraley’s arms where she has
been ever since. That was how he found his
wife, but how did they ever come to live and
die in such a godforsaken place as Puerto Bal-
boa? ‘

The rest of the story is a chronicle of the
Sorrows and joys of two people in love, totally
unsuited for each other, the one E ;
ically so, unruffled, undaunted, stubborn, con-
ventional and very faithful; the other, restless
easily ruffled, high Strung, prideful, gl
unconventional,

nglish, typ-

’

amorous,

mixture of temperaments, William McF
joy in giving his ideas on women,
and the such through the 1
love, the faithful confid
this strange match.
continuous war,
other

ee found
conventions
mouth of Mr. Spen-
ant of both sides of
Their love resulted in a
but they wouldn't leave each
oth and would both become highly
if it should be mentioned. They wet
together, but miserable apart. :

The story goes on briefly that Fraley took
Francine to New f
captain after rescuing the crew
from a sinking boat, but was
and fired for allegedly insultin
of one of the directors of
sitated Francine
York to Puerto
Francine was dis
make money as

indignant
were unhappy

and passengers
soon forgotten
g the daughter
the line which neces-
and himself moving from New
Balboa. He had a small job,
satisfied and wanted Frank to

other company officials did‘
but Frank refused, She goaded him into aliy:

ing himself with some shady men who betrayed
Frank’s trust and caught him in the coils of the
law. Just at that time Francine, who had al-
ways had a weak heart, succumbed to a severe
attack. Fraley, who had nothing more to live
for, whose only impetus in life had been taken
away by chance, first, his boat, then his sense
of honor, then his wife, shot and killed him-

self in°the next room to where his wife’s body
lay.” ;

Devils Trounce ’Cats

By the Score of 21-6

proved too strong for the Wildcats last Friday
and defeated them, 21-6. The game as a whole
was featureless and uninteresting. Both teams
presented very erratic offenses which clicked
only at intervals few and far between.

Duke started her second string, which grabbed
an early lead and held it through the entire
contest. The half ended with Duke leading, 8-5.
Horne, giant pivot man, amassed seven of these
tallies.

than ever and they scored only one foul shot.
Duke continued her winning ways and amassed
a total of 13 points. During the closing minutes
of the game the Devils injected their third

until the final gun.

for the Wildcats. Certainly they played a mis-
erable brand of ball and unless they have a
change for the better the rest of the season may
| prove to be a nightmare.

The line-ups were:

Davidson (6) Pos Duke (21)

Pathickic()))° 2- si seseeselec Thompson (3)
| * ~ Forward
Mathis (1 )ewatoutaesnoetoouLveneou
{ » Forward

Mattine Gl) isos noe cee Horne (11)
Center

VAR TC es Oi) ces ee are Lewis (0)

Guard

Peabody. (3) saeuu ac seeema sors 3 Hendrick (0)

| Guard

Scoring substitutes: Davidson, none; Duke,
Garber (1), Alpert (4).

Photographer Here

the campus last week. His work this time was

made up mostly of group pictures and a few.

individual ones. Little “Tex” Tilson,

cheer leaders, captain of basketball and varsity

| sity wrestling squad, tennis squad, Beta foot-
| ball champions, Senior football champions, Soph-
}omore basketball champions, Sophomore volley
ball champions, Freshman basketball squad, and

The basketeers from ’way down at Durham’

The second half found the ’Cats more off |

string and reserves, which held the ’Cats at bay |

Maybe it was one of those bad, bad nights | r i :
g | Sports involving the most luck were in the}

The photographer for the Annual was on |

Senior |
‘class mascot, had his picture taken, also the |

Sport Writers Say
Baseball Still King

Cleveland—(IP)—A survey made by the As-
sociated Press for its members of sports writers
throughout the country on the most popular
sport shows that baseball is still king of the
American sports world, although it is being
closely pushed by football, the collegiate game.

Other popular sports: were found to be fa-
vored in the order:

boxing.
| were in the order: rowing, wrestling, boxing,
| football, basketball, distance running.

‘order: golf, baseball, horse racing, basketball,

| football,

| PAN-HELLENIC

| (Continued from page 1)

Haves (2) |Va.; Evelyn Brooks, Charlottesville, Va.; Pat |

Sedgefield; Flora McKinnon, Red
C.; Dolly Rogers, Albemarle, N.
Cc.

| Miller,
Springs, N.
1C.; Mabel Wilkie, Charlotte, N.
| Kappa Sigma
| Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro, N. C.; Gladys
Fortune, Asheville, N. C.; Celeste Peigels, Day-
}ton, Ohio; Sue Horner, Durham, N. C.; Del
| Ford, Bennettsville, S. C.; Sophie Stevens,
| Sweet Briar; Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Sa-
‘Tem, N. C.; Maggie Morson, Charlotte, N. C.;
Frances Ravenel, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha
| Benson, Charlotte, N. C.; Connie Boggs, Char-
ilotte, N. C.; Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N. C.;
| Lib N. C.; Elizabeth

Davidson,
Brown, Clarksburg, Va.

Thompson,

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Louise Middleton, Monroe, N.

(Or)
| Clark, Fayetteville, N. ¢

Martha
*.; Betsy Brock, N. C

= | squad, captain of track squad, captain and var-|C, W.; Betty Taylor, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary |
They left there and went to New York, where |

| Sheldon, Lexington, N. C.; Hazel Emery,
| Jacksonville, Fla.; Dorothy Walton, Jackson-
| ville, Tla.; Clemmie Gene Teague, Laurens,
1S. C.; Lib Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Nancy Bell,

Golf, boxing, basketball, horse racing, fishing |
and hunting, track and field, ice hockey, tennis. |
The survey also showed golf to be the sport |
lrequiring the most skill. It was followed in|
the order by: baseball, tennis, billiards and |

Sports requiring most strength or stamina |

| Freshman wrestling squad. Also Glee Club, Or-| Charlotte, N, C.; Nancy Nalle, Charlotte, N.C.

DR. W. T. ELLIS

(Continued from page 1)

erect a fence somewhere on the campus here,
provide each student with a knife and sticks,
and make him sit for an hour each day, whittle
away, and think. The thing most needed today,”
he continued along the same line, “is for men
who can go off, sit for a while, and think things
through. We need to develop into our students
the ability to think and understand, and to
think in terms of life. Thinking in any terms
| but that is not worthwhile.

Taking up his three points, Dr. Ellis told
|the students that more important than the col-

ilege president, the faculty, or the buildings was
the fact that “you are you, and you are here.
You are here,” he said, “to tap the resources
lof the college and should say to yourself that
| you are not one of a herd of students, but
that you are a separate part of God. While
|here,” he urged, “develop your personal dignity,
| personal power, opportunity, and sacredness.”
| Dr. Ellis maintained that a development of
la closer fellowship and interrelationship with
| other people enables the individual to co-oper-
late more efficiently and more effectively with
| other people. This was his second point.
“Stand for your faculty, your books, and for
the authority of wisdom,” was his third presen-
‘tation. He decried that the people of today are
slipping away from authority, and that many
would consent to let the younger generation
express itself without authority. “The prime
and essential factor of wisdom is authority,”
{he declared, “and we need to realize that God
}is King of all. The one who does not attune
himself with the seat of authority is going to
find himself in difficulty.” His closing remark
vas, “authority alone will save the world from
anarchy and will give us a philosophy of life

that will save us.”

| . MY WORD
|
| (Continued from page 4)
| “No, West, Ki
“Now, young man, no joking please—”

“Bat lm not joking, sir. My name's really
West. My roommate’s name is East, but just
now he happens to be visiting in ‘North.’”

“Ves ?”.

“Yes, I’m telling you the truth. [ know it

|sounds like a joke. Come with me, and I'll
‘find him for you.”

“Well—er—ah—”
re “L insist. Come along. I’m sure East's in

and¢typically Oriental, In this |

chestra, R. O. T. C. battalion, battalion staff, |
Senior officers and Band, The photographer |
will have to make another trip heré in March |
and will probably finish with the pictures then.

| Local Students Have

| ’ Gift for Predictions

}course in doping the outcome of football games, |

la number of prognosticators of the state might
well come to this college to learn the gentle
jart of picking the winner. No one knows what
it but nevertheless, the local student body
is certainly gifted in that field.

|. To prove this contention, in a recent foot-
|ball. score predicting contest conducted by a
Southern shoe firm, three of the first six prizes

is,

McFee philosophy is the most interesting
| subject in the book. He is cynical to some ex-
j tent, highly ironical and drives shaft after shaft
jinto the conventions of modern society. He is
jironical ine dealing with both American and
| English life, probably more so with the English
jthan he is with the American.

| His attitude toward morality is broad, Fran-
{cine and Fraley were never married. Francine
was a little unconventional, — spit-fire, who
| wouldn't hesitate to go out with other men if
she chose, yet Mcl*ce stamped her as superior
to Mrs. Henderson, the conventional doctor's
|with, in Puerto Balboa, who was the epitome
}of morality, virture, chastity, and wifely devo-
tion, because Francine was sincere and not a

!reveler in mining for dirt about your neighbors. |

| He defends the suicide of Captain Fraley, evi-
; dently. Is it moral to live when the world is

York. He became a famous | be a show, always pretending that it is bearable, 90,000,000 at present.
| or isn't it the moral thing to be honest and sin- |
| cere and get out of a place that is unbearable |

}and torturous ?

,

jand Frank as more holy than most marriages
| because you could break the marriage vows by
‘a legal procedure, but these two were plighted
before God’s heavenly throne, he said, and try
as they might, they could not break themselves
japart until death. He attacked marriage in va-
| rious places throughout the book.

| The book is one the main thought provoca-
tive and the style is winning in its evident por-
trayal of one personality—William McFee. The
author is well informed, forceful in his presen-
tation of character, but as a story teller, he
lacks cohesion, unity, and emphasis. His story
is too involved, too long, and travels too many.
channels to reach its end.

Theta Upsilon Omega

Laura Riser, Greenville, S. C.; [Ellin White,

‘North.’ ”

They go to North Dormitory, but the stran-
i ger says not a word, He's afraid to. They find
least.

Although Davidson College doesn’t offer a |

; were won by members of the Davidson College |
student body, including two of the first three!

la thing of hatred to you, causing your life to |

| He looked on the illegal union of Francine |

| Concord, N. C.; Ruth Ammons,’ @oncord, N.
C.; Mary Alice Dunning, Williamston, N. C.; “East, old Wek horse,” says West, “here's a

| Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Lou MLO, SCE YOU:

| Beans, Lincolnton, N. C.; Billie Deaton, |

| Statesville, N. C.; Esther Rawlins, Statesville,

IN. C.; Margaret Richardson, Charlotte, N.

| Susic Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.

At last the stranger found his. man,

“I’m glad to know you, Mr. East,” he says.
C.| “North is my na——"

| The above is part of a column which Mr.
| Dew, a 1922 graduate of Davidson, wrote for
| Jane Howard, Charleston, W. Va.; Harriet aus ; News-Joutnal, ot Which att
liBatercatonne: Chaflotte<N.- CieMaria Ware | Mr. Dew is associate editor. Occasionally Mr.
Pitts, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Wake- | D€ Prepares this column by taking unusual
field, Charlotte, N, C.; Katherine Crowell, incidents of the day a he Paes abe uta tie
Chariots; N, C3 Mildred Beasley, Charlotte, | UW SPAPErs, and preparing his own comment,

|

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Raetord

N.-C.;-Margaret ‘Rutter, Gastonia, N. C:: Net. which is very interesting and cleverly written.
tie Irby, Blackstone, Va.; Dorothy Blair, Albe-| [D¢ Portion of his column quoted above was
ante oN © | SeEvelse by an article sent out from Davidson
| }some time ago, and which was also later used
lin the cartoon, “Strange As It Seems.”

|

Pi Kappa Phi

Josephine Taylor, Suffolk, Va.; Anna Boyce
Rankin, Gastonia, N. C.; Eda Walters, Greens- | PROF. E. A. BEATY
boro, N. C.; Jenny Harrison, Greenshoro, N. | cases ;
|C.; Elsie, Miller, Hartsville, S. C.; Mildred) (Continued from page 1)

Hendrix, Casley, S. C.; Sue 'Corbin, Fremont, |and left off all the extra matter which was
N. C.; Pervy Yelverton, Fremont, N. C.; Mar-| of no value in the lesson. He struck a medium
garet Gilliam, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Lib No-
lan, Spartanburg, S. C.; Sarah Floyd, Spartaa-
burg, S. C.; Anna Bolton, Union, S. C.; Mel
| Lever, Charlotte, N.C.

of knowledge, emphasizing only the essentials.
If we would have our minds like Christ's, we
should try to learn to retain only that which
fs valuable and reject all the knowledge and
thinking which is dross.

If we want to have Christ-like minds, we
should attempt to have humility, be sincere, and

COMMISSION SETS HIGHER

WILDCATS DOWN GUILFORD

(Continued from page 3)
bination, and a set of more accurate basket
eyes,
The line-up:

Davidson (22) Pos. Guilford (18)
Patnick (8) .2---- ses Sooke Pastine (5)
Forward
Mathis GC (4): cctessewceses Haworth C (5)
Forward
Mattin: (2) Sccusscuaececc foes Jamieson (1)

Center Vo
Waptet (2) ssetuuassadsochoocseucs Chisholm
» Guard
Peabody: (6) vesauseuusoseccces=s Purnell (7)
Guard

Substitutes—Davidson: Holland, Lafferty,
Dickerson, Boucher. Guilford: Wildman, Car-
son. Referee: Dunham (Chicago “Y.’”).

Oak Ridge Quintet
Downs Wildkittens

The Davidson Freshmen were defeated last
Thursday night by the fast Oak Ridge quintet
in a game that turned out to be one of the
best that has been played in the Davidson gym.
During the first half, neither team had made
a deciding number of points, but in the last two
Oak Ridge gained a lead that the
Fresh basketeers could not equal. The game
ended with the Cadets holding the long end of
a 27-12 score.

Glasgow and McCachren were the two out-
standing men on the visiting team, while the
Harris and Smathers combination made the
game interesting from the Wildkittens’ point of
view. Both teams missed the basket after shoot-
ing from all angles of the court and the guard-
ing of both sides was extremely good.

The line-up was as follows:
Oak Ridge (27) Pos.
WHINaIng eee eee eer eee

quarters

Davidson (12)
Harris (6)

Glasgow (10) Rogers

Mushishi; (72) ecuenue see ens

West (3)

Center

Mic@achtet 4(6) jcesass tos ec e es Morgan
Guard

WOO DIGGS) = seu So eae ern Smathers (3)
Guard

Substitutions: Seifret (3), Everett, Morris,

Smith, Bernado, Yelverton, Bumgarner. Ref-

éree, Pritchett (Davidson).

DAVIDSON DRAMATISTS

(Continued from pgae 1)

terious injections on the men is too jolly to be
revealed here.

. The characters for the two plays to be put
on by the Masquers have not been completely
chosen, Immediate work, however, is to com-
mence on rehearsals. The Masquers contem-
plate a serious difficulty in emulating the gifted
players of the Little Theatre. The program is
looked forward to as the most attractive eve-
ning of one-act plays yet staged at Davidson.

DUKE

School of Medicine
DURHAM, N. C.

Applications for admission

to the
first and third year medical classes en-
should be sent
as soon as possible, and will be con-
sidered in the order of receipt. The

1932,

tering October 1,

entrance qualifications are intelligence,
character, two years of college work
and the requirements for grade A
medical schools. Catalogues and appli-
may be obtained from

cation forms

the Dean.

STANDARDS grasp the essential things of life.
hie Lvl Ed
(Continued from page 5) pa
three and a half times that of the first five

year plan,
Solve the cattle breeding problem.
Increase the oil output by two and a half or

Davidson Theatre

three times. '
Produce 250,000,000 tons of coal as against

of railroads, and
| railway transportation.

new completely reorganize

Reach, by 1937, an annual electric output of | “PASSIONATE PLUMBER”
100,000,000 K W as against 17,000,000 in 1932, | :
2 r THURSDAY

places. The skill of the local collegians was |
further attested by the fact that the contest re-
quired that not. only the winners of 10 big games

Tyack, of Winston-Salem, who won second |
prize; J. M. Brown, of Greensboro, third man |
in the contest,’ and J. W. Lee, of Ronceverte, |
W. Va., who placed sixth. The contest attracted |
entrants from all over the South. | e

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

1 6“
Build from 25,000 to 30,000 new kilometers y UNION DEPOT”
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.

“TOMORROW AND TOMORROW”
RUTH CHATTERTON

t ectl 1, but also that th 1 FRIDAY

{be correctly named, but also that the scores by é< es

which the games would be won must be in-/ THE BIG PARADE

cluded. . ° | JOHN ,GILBERT—KARL DANE
Davidson men winning places included J. L. SATURDAY ‘

“CHARLIE CHAN’S CHANCE”
LINDA WATKINS

