4 : v 7 a
R. O. T. C. INSPECTION ORATORICAL
THURSDAY AND CONTEST HERE
FRIDAY FRIDAY
Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1933 No. 27

Manson, Kirkland Chosen

Vice-Pres. and Sec.-Treas.|

of Rising Senior Class

McLain, McPhail, Wadsworth, Yelver-
ton”Nominated Vice-Presidents;
Harris, Hurst, Neill, Secre-
tary-Treasurer

FRESH ELECTIONS SOON

Class of “35” Chose Fred McPhail
Vice-President, and Charlie Har-
‘ ris Secretary-Treasurer

In the voting which closed last week, Andy
Manson was elected to the office of vice-
president of the rising Senior class, and
Buck Kirkland to the position of secretary-
treasurer. At the same time, the rising Jun-
ior class chose Fred McPhail as their vice-
president for next year, and Charlie Harris
to the secretary-treasurer’s: office.

Those nominated from the floor for con-
sideration in the Senior class elections in-
cluded Brewster Grant, John Hunter, Buck
Kirkland, Andy Manson, and Buck Ross.
All but Kirkland and Manson. were eliminat-
ed on the first ballot, and, as had been de-
cided beforehand, the man receiving the
greatest number of votes, Andy Manson, was
declared vice-president, and Buck Kirkland
was chosen secretary-treasurer for the com-
ing year.

. Next year’s Senior vice-president, who be-
longs to the S. A. E. social fraternity, was
formerly secretary-treasurer of—his—class_in
his Sophomore year, at which time he was
also elected to the Beaver Club. Manson has
also been a member of. The Davidsonian
staff, \ :

Buck Kirkland, a Pi Kappa Alpha, has re-
cently been chosen for the position of var-
sity football manager for next year.

(Continued on page 4)

Oratorical Contest
to Take Place Soon

Davidson Contestants to Be Chosen in
Preliminaries This Evening

The State Peace Oratorical Contest will be
held at Davidson on Friday, April 28, at 8
o'clock, during which the place of the next
contest will be decided upon. Suggestions
as to how the association may function more
effectively in building up a sentiment for
world peace will comprise the basis of the
discussion. Duke, Guilford, and N. C. State
will most likely participate.

Prizes amounting to one hundred dollars
in cash will be awarded. This’ award is the
gift of the Misses Seabury of Bedford, Mass.
They have set aside a sum, the income of
which is sufficient to make awards annually
in forty states.

Jack Williams, Jr., is in charge of ar-
rangements, music, and the selection of the
judges. Those who have been invited to
act as judges are: the Rev. W. G. Clark,
superintendent of schools; Frank A. Ed-
monson, Attorney John Shaw, Attorney L.
B. Vreeland, and Mrs, W. B. Ramsay, presi-
dent of Mitchell College, all of whom are
from Charlotte. The judges invited from
Statesville are: the Rey. A. P. Millstead,
and Mrs. E. M. Land, general director of the
Women’s Federated Clubs.
isho, the state chairman, will be present and
following the contest an informal reception
will be given in the banquet hall.

The preliminary contest to select David-
son’s contestant will be held Wednesday
‘night.

Sigma Upsilon

At a meeting of Sigma Upsilon, na-
tional literary honorary society, on
April 10th, the following officers were
elected for the coming year: Lyman
Clardy, president; Gordon Wood, sec-
retary; Gordon Brown, treasurer; Tom
Wood, steward.

Professor Goldiere, of the Davidson
faculty, who was elected to member-
ship before the spring holidays, was
initiated at a meeting last Monday
night.

The retiring officers of Sigma Up-
silon are: Bob McCallie, president;
Charlie Myers, secretary; Bill Mulless,
treasurer; Ed Handcock, steward.

Elwood C. Per-!

|
|

Prospects Are Good
For Centennial Class

—___— |

From Mr. Hengeveld’s office comes the in-|
formation that Davidson College has the
largest mailing list of prospective students!
for next year’s Freshman class that it has
ever had since he has been at Davidson.
The definite registration at present is the
same as it was this time last year. |
A great effort is being made to complete
the registration of the new class by the be-
ginning of summer, but since so many!
schools are at the beginning of their clos- |
ing periods it will possibly take a longer}
time to receive all the required data con-|
cerning prospective students. |
The main purpose of this centennial class|
is to have a good class of men—not neces-|
sarily a large one-+but most essentially al
good one.
The class for next year is practically a!
third full now, and judging by the number |
of requests for catalogues, an extremely}
large one is to be expected. |
The names of prospective students that}
have been turned in by the student body}
number the large total of 750. |
A direct contact with a person is of much)
greater value in getting a boy to come to}
/Davidson than any literature that can be|
sent out from here, and for that reason stu-

dents are urged to do their share. |
|

Formal Installation |

of New Men is Held

West, Thompson, Willson, Casali, Wil-
liams, Fugate, Smyre Accept
Offices

Last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium
the annual formal installation of newly elect-
ed student body officers was held. Imme-
diately after this service, refreshments were
servéd in the banquet hall.

Allen Mebane, president of the class of
35, presided. At each tap of the gavel the|
incoming and outgoing officers went on to
the stage, the newly elected leaders: using
the left steps and the old going up on the
right.

The first stroke of the mallet brought to
the platform Jerome Clark, retiring student
body president, with his Student Council and
Julian West, newly elected head with the new
council. After the incoming group had taken
the oath, President Clark in a very brief
but tasteful talk thanked the student body
for its loyal support during: his administra-
tion and in bequeathing- his position to the
new president, wished for him the same
support. President-Elect West, in accepting,
pledged his support to those who had en-
trusted him with this office, and asked for
the same spirit of “team work” that char-
acterized the outgoing regime.

Paul Brown and Wee Thompson, old and
new Y. M. C. A. presidents, respectively,
were the next on the stage. Brown, in turn-
ing the reins of office over to Thompson,
handed him the Bible, which he stated was
the constitution of the Young Men’s Chris-
tion AsSdciation, and wished to the presi-
dent-elect a most successful year in his work.
Thompson, in accepting, asked that a more
unanimous interest be taken in this work
at Davidson and offered to serve to the best
of his ability as president of the Y. M. C, A.

At the next sound of the gavel, Charlie
| Pearce and Eb Willson mounted to the ros-
}trum and Pearce, in a very few words, re-
\linquished his office as president of the Ath-

(Continued on page 7)

DR. R. H. LAFFERTY TO
TALK HERE TOMORROW

On Thursday evening at 8 o'clock, Sigma
Pi Sigma, honorary physies fraternity, will
hold its regular meeting in Chambers. They
have been very fortunate in securing Dr.
R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte, as the speaker
of the evening. The lecture will be on the
relation of physics to the medcia!~ profes-
sion, and it will ‘be illustrated with slides.

Dr. Lafferty was reared at Davidson, and
after graduating here with high honors, re-
ceived his M.D. at the North Carolina Med-
ical College. He then taught for a few years
there, distinguishing himself in X-ray work.
At the present he is head of the X-ray de-
partment of the Charlotte Sanatorium.

The meeting will be open, and all towns-

people and students are cordially invited.

R. O. T. C. Inspection

The annual spring inspection of the
Davidson College R. O. T. C. battalion
will be held this Friday afternoon.
Colonel James M. Little, who is now
stationed at Wi Sal will be in
charge of the inspection.

Colonel Little will arrive
son Thursday morning to
examination. Thursday and Friday he
will examine the R. O. T. C. classes,
and Friday afternoon, beginning at
2:00 o'clock, he will inspect the units
on the drill field. A parade, company,
platoon, and-squad-drills, physical ex-
ercise drill, and a combat post exer-
cise will be held.

Members of the local unit began
final preparations for the inspection
early this week. Rifles were being
cleaned and uniforms ‘cleaned and
pressed in an effort to earn an “ex-
cellent” rating again this year.

at David-
begin his

Members Chosen to
“Y” Board of Control

Hubert Morris, Alex Schenck, and
Walter Sprunt Are Selected

In the recent Y. M. C..A. Board, of Coné
trol elections, Professor J. C. Bailey was
elected to serve in this organization by -pop-
ular dcclamation, and Alex Schenck, of the
rising Senior class, and Hubert Morris and
Walter Sprunt of the rising Junior class
were elected to serve on the board by the
student body.

The elections were begun on April 2, and
due to. several runsoffs continued until after
the spring vacation, when. voting was re-
sumed, .

James Harris, William Johnson, and Alex
Schenck were the nominees from the rising
Senior class. Schenck was elected over Har-
ris on the final ballot.

From the rising Junior class, Don Bailey,
Hubert Morris, Ben Rose and Walter Sprunt
were nominated for the office. Bailey and
Rose were eliminated on the first ballot.

(Continued on page 4)

Dr. McKay Heard by
Pre-Medical Society

Dr. Robert W. McKay, noted urologist
of* Charlotte, spoke recently at a meeting
of Pi Delta Alpha, pre-medical fraternity,
held on April 7.

Dr. McKay is an eminent physician and
a most interesting man. He is the brother
of Dr. Hamilton McKay, also of Charlotte,
who has spoken at. Davidson before. Dr.
R. W. McKay attended Davidson and the
University of Virginia, and took his medical
degree at Johns-Hopkins University.

The speaker was introduced by Dr. J. W.
MacConnell, the college physician. He pre-
sented a most interesting account on the
subject of quack doctors, outlining the rise
of these pseudo doctors from the time of
their origin down to their present standing
in the world.

He spoke in particular of the custom of
medical training in Germany, by which all
quacks are eliminated. The student, after
his training is completed, must take a gov-
ernment examination and, if he passes, is
given a government stamp to prove that he
is legally authorized to practice medicine.

After this program, delicious refreshments
were served by the members of the fra-
ternity.

CHEMISTRY FRATERNITY
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Local officers for Alpha Alpha chapter
of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chem-
ical honorary fraternity, were elected by
members of the club at a recent meeting.
Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., of Zitacuaro, Mexico,
was chosen president of the chapter for the
coming year.

Other officers included Odi Casali, of
Welch, W. Va., secretary; J. T. Blair, of
Albemarle, treasurer, and Benjamin L.
Moore, of Pendleton, S. C., sergeant-at-arms.

Avery Patton, of Greenville, S. C., in the
retiring president of the local chapter. Gam-
ma Sigma Epsion was founded at Davidson
in 1919,

Davidson Students
Hear R. H. Edwards

The Davidson Lecture Committee last
Thursday night brought to the Davidson
student body a speaker of great authority
in the United States on Student Counciling
and Education, Mr. R. H. Edwards, of Cor-
nell University.

Mr. Edwards presented a most interest-
ing talk to his Davidson audience on the
subject of “The Place of Persons in Educa-
tional Processes.” Mr. Edwards defines edu-}
cation as growth under guidance. He then|
proceeded to show the function of the teach-
er in this process.

The teacher's duty, according to Mr. Ed-
wards, is to stimulate the student and as-
sist him in the process of personal develop-
ment. In this process the personal rela-
tionship .becomes the outstanding factor.
But, as Mr. Edwards showed by several ex-
amples, no human being has yet been able
to meet all these qualifications.

“Only Jesus Christ, the master teacher,
in all the experience of the human race,
has been able to stand up to the standard.”)
According to Mr. Edwards, it is His meth-
ods, then, that we would best follow, so far
as we are humanly able.

Mr. Edwards is the director of United Re-
ligions at Cornell, and also holds a course
on this subject at the University of Chicago.

Annual Bowery Ball
is Brilliant Affair

“Southernaires” Furnish Music for
Colorful Event Held Last
Week

Davidson’s annual Bowery Ball, including
a group of three dances, was held last week
in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, and proved
to be an unusually successful and brilliant
affair. The ten social fraternities on the hill
invited a large number of guests up for the
occasion, which consisted of a formal dance
Friday night, a tea dance Saturday after-
noon, and the colorful Bowery Ball Satur-
day night as an enjoyable climax.

A figure for the old and new officers of
the student body was held at the Friday
night dance, and an impromptu figure for
those in costume was had Saturday night.

The Southernaires, Davidson College or-
chestra, furnished the music, and contrib-
uted much to the success of the affair with
its good music and clever novelty numbers.

The Bowery Ball has always been a high
light on Davidson’s social calendar, and the
event this year was no exception.

Social fraternity visitors for the occasion
included: :

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Colum Schenck and
Susan Gregory, Greensboro; Betty Voegtlen,
Summit, N. J.; Peggy Becker, Philadelphia,
Pa.; Anne Marvin, Charlottesville, Va.; Jes-
sie Rose, Henderson; Mary Ware, Darling-
ton, S. C.; Tiny-Niekelson, Edgefield, S. C.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Courtland Preston,
Eleanor Hays, May Marion, Katherine Crow-
ell, Virginia Carey, Charlotte; Mary McCay,
Concord; Katherine O'Farrell, Kings Moun-
tain, S. C.; Florence Pitts, Spartanburg, S.
C.; Nancy Moore, Gastonia; Isabelle Pol-
lock, Bluefield, W. Va.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Dot Jones and Mary
Paine, Charlotte; Barbara Witherspoon,
Beverly Burgess, Adelaide Fortune, Greens-
boro; Etta Burt Warren, Trenton; Betty
Dangerfield, Norfolk, Va.; Kitty. Rankin,
Mount Holly.

(Continued on page 4)

SCABBARD AND BLADE
BIDS NINE NEW MEN

On Wednesday, April 12, during parade
drill, Scabbard and Blade, honorary military}
fraternity, issued bids to the following nine |
Juniors: W..M«Brown, of Knoxville, Tenn. ;
F. P. Hartison, of Mt. Ulla; E. J. Humphrey,
of Wilmington; W. T. Johnson, of Charlotte ;
W. A. Kirkland, of Durham; A. H. Manson,
of Jacksonville, Fla.; T. H. McCallie, of
Chattanooga, Tenn.; E. L. Powell, of Mobile,
Ala., and C. M. Rives, of Greensboro

Twice yearly, once in the fall and once
in the spring, this fraternity extends inyita-
tions to new men. The new men are to be
initiated on Wednesday, April 26. An in-
formal initiation will be held in the after-
noon and the formal at night in the regular

jheld last week, Hugh

Hawkins Named Varsity

Cheerleader on Second
Ballot of Student Vote

Is Elected by Supremacy Over Mc-
Callie as Smith Loses on First
~ = Vote

ALLEN CONDUCTS ELECTION

McCallie, Smith Chosen Junior Cheer
Leaders in Fall Elections

As a result of the student body elections
Hawkins, of Char-
lottesville, Va., was chosen for the position
of varsity cheer leader for the coming year.
Hawkins was elected over T. Hook McCallie,
of Chattanooga, Tenn., in the second ballot.

Brooke Allen, retiring cheer leader, con-
ducted the election. The men nominated
for this office were Hawkins, McCallie, and
Ralph Smith, of Dillon, S. C.

In the past, it has usually been the cus-
tom to have only two Junior cheer leaders,
from whom the varsity cheer leader is se-
lected at spring elections. McCallie and
Smith were selected early in the fall to these
positions. e

However, due to an injury suffered by
McCallie in the early fall, it was necessary
for Hawkins, who had been runner-up in
the fall elections, to substitute for McCallie
as Junior cheer leader until the latter’s re-
covery. Due to this fact, Allen decided to
retain all three men and make all eligible
for. the varsity post.

Hawkins is a member of Sigma Phi Ep-
silon, social fraternity.

Rev. Gypsy Smith Opens
Evangelistic Services

World-Renowned Evangelist Has \
Large Attendance at First
Meeting

Rev. Gypsy Smith, Jr., launched the Spring
Evangelistic Services with a deeply spiritual
address centering on the theme of Christ's
talk to Nicodemus, as recorded in the third
chapter of John: “Ye must be born again.”
This was the first of a series of addresses
delivered by Mr. Smith, extending over tlie
period from Monday evening to Wednesday
evening, the time set apart for the Spring
Services. On Tuesday evening, Mr. Smith
spoke on the subject, “How Can a Man
Know That He Has Been Born Again?”

After the singing of several hymns by the
student congregation, Mr. Smith prefaced
his remarks on “Spiritual Re-birth” by read-
ing the entire third chapter of John, which
tells of that classic visit by the-Jewish Rabbi
to the Master. The text was taken from
the seventh verse, which reads, “Ye must
be born again.” Man in his original state
was created in the image of God. This state
he forfeited by yielding to the tempter’s in-
sistent knock, and henceforth, by all the
laws of God's wisdom, it was impossible for
him to love God. Impossible—yes, until the
image of God was restored in man’s heart by
the incoming of Jesus Christ. Only through
a rebirth could man understand the will of
the Creator.

The verse may be translated to read, “Ye
must be born above,” or “Ye must be born
anew,” but,.in all events, the meaning and
power back of .the words is the transforma-
tion of the earthly, fleshly being into the
spiritual being by the miracle of rebirth.

Mr. Smith compared the exuberance of
the spiritually reborn person to a forest,
heavy with the fullness of the garb of spring.

(Continued on page 8)

meeting place.

DuPont Fellowship

Charles Bettis received a DuPont
Junior Fellowship to the University of
Virginia, to do his graduate work in
mathematics. Bettis is a’ member of
Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity.

Bob McCallie received a part schol-
arship in English to Vanderbilt Uni-
versity. He is also a member of Phi
Beta Kappa honorary fraternity.

Campbell Wildman was chosen first
alternate for the fellowships awarded
men who intend to take advance work
in science by the zoology department
of the University of North Carolina.

