THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

Wildkittens Defeat
Cornelius High 13-6

Doc Unger’s Wildkitten baseball club
opened their season auspiciously when they
batted hard to down the Cornelius High
School nine, 13 to 6, in a free hitting game
on.the latter’s grounds March 28.

Hank Loftin, Davidson shortstop, led the
attack with the willow that shelled two Cor-
nelius pitchers for ten hits and thirteen runs.
The Cornelius team could get but five bingles
off the combined offerings of Richardson,
Sanders, and Jenkins, but two of these went
for circuit clouts, and coupled with three
Davidson miscues led to the six runs scored
by them.

For the opening game, both teams fielded
very well, and the ’Kitten moundsmen looked
especially good. Numerous substitutions were
used throughaut the game, Coach Unger
giving his entire squad a chance to show
what they could do. «

Score by innings? —- Re HB)
Cornelius Hi ----- 000 003 030—6 5 3
Davidson Fr, -.-2.- 002 065 030—13 10 3

Batteries: Sherrill, Parker, and Howard;
Richardson, Sanders, Jenkins, and Parker.

Gastonia Rifle Club
Beaten by Davidson

Shooting with deadly precision, the Da-
vidson rifle team defeated the Gastonia Rifle |
Club, 892 to 863, last Tuesday night ‘at the |
Davidson Armory. os

Dickson McLean of Davidson and Frieze
of Gastonia tied for high scoring honors
with of 184 out of a possible 200.
Frieze an accomplished shot, having
placed second in the national matches held
at Camp Perry last year.

Last week the rifle team engaged in com-
petition with leading rifle teams of the coun- |
try for the highly prized Hearst trophy. This
prize is given annually to the team turn-
ing in the highest score. Individual rewards
are .also given for the 10 highest scores
turned in.

G. L. Green, J. D. McLean, F. H. Scott,
E T. McConnell, and B. O. Simpson are the
men that shot in the matcli last week for
Davidson. '

Gastonia’s team consisted of the follow-
ing men: Frieze, McConnell, Parker, Mc-
Lean, and Reid.

’CAT CINDERMEN DOWN V. P. I.

scores

1s

(Continued from page 5)
W. Turner (V. P. I.) second; Grinus (V. P.
I.) third. Distance: 122 feet, 9 inches.

Two-mile run: Bell (V. P. IL.) first; C.
Little (Davidson) second; McFadyen .(Da-
vidson) third. Time: 10:40.5.

Pole vault: Eddy (V. P.
(V. P. 1), Flinn (Davidson),
first. Height: 11. feet.

220-yard low hurdles: A. Little (Davidson)
first; McCallie (Davidson) second; Lyne (V.
Tl’. I.) third. Time: 26.1,

Javelin throw: W. Turner (V. P. I.) first;
Rettis (Davidson) second; Cochran (David-
son) third. Distance: 174 feet.

880-yard run: Grimsley (V._P, 1)
Gwynn (Davidson) second; Cannon (David-
son) third. Time: 2:5.

High jump: W. Turner (V. P. I.) first;
Kerns (V. P. I.) and Coble (Davidson) tied
for second. Height: 6 feet, 134 inches.

Broad jump: Grimsley (V. P. I.) first;
Dickenson (Davidson) and A. ‘uittle (David-

I.), C. Turner
all tied for

tirst ;

son) tied for second. Distance: 21 feet, 3
inches,
Score: Davidson, 75; V. P. I., 51.
Freshman summaries:
100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first;

Pritchard (V; P. I.) second, Faison (Vavid-
son) third. Time: 10.2.

Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first;. Moth-
ershead (V. P. I.) second; Merchant (Da-
vidson) third. Time: 4:39.3.

220-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first;
Pritchard (V. P. I.) second; Faison (David-
son) third. Time: 23.1.

Shot put: Tipton (Davidson) first; An-
drews (V. P, I.) second; Windham (David-
son) third. Distance: 42 feet, 2 inches.

120-yard high hurdles: Cathey (Davidson)
first; Parker (Davidson) second; Blandford
(V. P. I.) third. Time: 16.9.

440-yard run: Frazier (Davidson) first;
Pugh (V. P. I.) second; Fraley (Davidson)
third. Time: 55 flat.

Discus throw: Wells (Davidson) first; Tip=
ton (Davidson) Carroll (V. P. I.)
third. Distance: 105 feet, 8 inches.

Pole vault: Dolan, Pittman,:and Lee (all
Davidson) tied for first. Height: 11 feet.

220-yard low hurdles: Pittman (Davidson)
first; Parker (Davidson) second; Blandford
(V. P. I.) third. Time: 28.3.

Javelin throw: Slaughter (V.-P. 1.) first;
Johnston (Davidson) second; Blackwelder |
(Davidson) third. Distance: 138 feet, 8
inches.

880-yard. run: Mothershead (V. -P. I.)
first; Shuford (Davidson) second; Cothran
(Davidson) third, Time: 2:10.9.

High jump: Rollins (V. P. I.) first; Lee

second;

second, Height : 5 feet, 9 inches.

Broad..jump+ Pritchard —(V.—-P,-I.) first ;
Hassell (Davidson) second; Chirrelieson (V.

P. I.) third. Distance: 19 feet, 6 inches:
Score: Davidson, 76; V. P. I, 41.

BEARD TALKS ON MODERN

THOUGHTS ABOUT HISTORY

(Continueé from page 1!)

development of history as thought, and to rounding circumstances. Today no profes-

deal with history from the viewpoint of con-
temporary thought.

Three hundred years ago, he began, there
was a constant struggle between theologians
on one side and scientists on the-other.. The
theologians, representing all branches of
learning, drew their conclusions from inher-
ited teachings, while the scientists, not con-
tent to accept the teachings and findings of
others, instituted research, study, and ex-
periment as a positive base for their teach-
ings. The advanced much more
than did the theologians. They inquired into
the history of the earth and all things re-
lated thereto. Then came the application and
development of stience.

scientists

Upon observing the progress of the sci-
entists, the historians decided to follow their
example in the study of the thoughts and
acts of man, They would put away philos-
ophy and prejudice, and observe facts, From

these facts they would draw their conclu- |

This action revolution in

thought. The medieval historian had re-

sions. Was a

ferred events, such as the rise and fall of|in this field can predict 10,000 years from
a-nation, toa divine plan. History to him}|now the exact position of all the known
was a divine plan, and every event fitted! heavenly bodies. That is the caliber of the
into the plan. | real science. The speaker called special at-
When science was applied to history, his-|tention to the difference between the words
tory became secular. Historians studied |‘‘science” and “scientific.” Some are inclined
earthly affairs. They connected every earth-/to think, he pointed out, that to apply the
ly event to another such event. They formu-!latter word to a study makes this study a
lated a theory of earthly causes. Thus all} science. Chemistry, for example, is not a
history became positive and secular. It'|real science, for it is very limited in its
|sought its explanations in earthly and sur-!scope. A real science of chemistry would
include all sciences. The purpose of science
is to describe, and not to explain.

The degree of accuracy ,of prediction in

As time went on, historians became more | sciences differs. As said before, the science
jand more scientific. They overlooked moral |of celestial mechanics is the only exact sci-
!requirements or evaluation, and sought to) ence. Modern science is full of difficulties—
tdescribe the past as it was. In the middle a real science can deal with only those phe-
jof the nineteenth century, especially after nomena which can be put in a scheme of
| Darwin, the boldest thinkers in history con- | factors. Natural science treats these things
‘cluded that their great philosophical task jin sequence. This cannot be done with hu-
was to erect a science of history. They | contemporary
sought to bring all actuality of past under
a formula’ or law. Every good historian has |
|dreamed of making a science of history.
| Many thought that they had done so, They
jsought some clue to human conduet, but it
yet been real-
ized that a science of history would cover

sional historian will ascribe any contem-

| porary event to the will of God.

j;man_ affairs. However,

They are trying to write in causal chains.
Mr. Beard asserted that causal chains, when
fonce established, will not explain anything.
If they would, why historians not
‘predict future action? The historian is able
the past very satisfactorily, but
future he is able to do nothing.
thoughts about history is
deterministic of

can the

has. never discovered. Few
to arrange
the

Contemporary

and inelude all the other so-called sciences.

There is, Mr. Beard, only one.
that celestial mechanics, and it
science only because the human race
nothing to with it. It

; with
asserted

science of turning from sequence

is a

brats whatsoever do are entering upon a new era of thought in

his- |
torians are trying to find a way to do so. |

assume that the laws of physics are the
important element in human affairs? ; (2)
suppose we can not make a science of his-
tory—are we then hopelessly lost?; (3) we
are not lost simply because we can not make
a science of history. We can not see why
an event happened; we can only describe
the conditions which made possible the
event. We can not even explain these con-
ditions. :

The modern historian has surrendered the
idea of finding any formula which would
bring together the present, past, and fu-
ture. Such a discovery is not probable, to
say the least. The modern historian says to
humanity: “You stand always on the un-
known precipice of the future. It is full of
necessities. choices or contingencies, and vir-
tues.”

Suppose, said Mr. Beard, that there was
a science of history. Then we could predict
the future. We should see ourselves impris-
oned in future events, and find ourselves
unable to do as we chose. The science of

| history is impossible to us, We can not know

as

facts they actually were, because the
past is closed. We can not recover feelings

{and ideas, and we can not, therefore, write
| history that is actual and scientific. We can,

physics to something decidedly different. We | history,
rent.

however, pick from the past that which we
can use for building the future.

History is great not because it was good
but because it inspired the pres-
History thought propaganda,

as 1S

is a science which brings all the celestial | history. The fundamental propositions of | cither of a great enlightened philosophic

|phenomena under a few formulae. Scientists | this new era are: (1) are

we required to! mind, or of a small unenlightened mind.

ILLUSION:

which he stopped a 9 lb. cannon

fully charged cannon. The audience gasped when
the gun flashed and the human Gibraltar stepped
forward out of the smoke uninjured, with the 9 lb.

shot in his fiands,

EXPLANATION:

The trick lay in the way an assistant prepared the

cannon for the performance. He u

amount of powder and wadding, but placed the
greater part of the charge of powder ahead of the
shot. The cannon ball was propelled only by the

small charge behind it which wa
lob the 9 Ib, ball over to the stron

KEPT enney =
IN THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK

—— LO TRICKS.
SUST COSTLIER

A “strong man” once gave public performances in

Gbe Human Fort

STOPS CANNON BALL!

=a

ball shot from a

sed the regulation

A performance sometimes staged
in cigarette advertising is the illu-
sion that cigarettes are made easy
on the throat by some special
process of manufacture.
EXPLANATION: All cigarettes are
made in almost exactly the same
way. Manufacturing methods are

$ just sufficient to

g man. it contains.

TOBACCOS

(Davidson) and Pugh (V. P. I.) tied for

IN A MATCHLESS

BLEND

Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

“les fun to be fooled _ |
...it's more fun to KNOW

standard and used by all. A ciga-
rette is only as good as the tobaccos

—_ It is a fact, well known by
leaf tobacco experts, that

Camels are made from finer,
MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos
than any other popular brand.

In costly tobaccos you will find
mildness, good taste, throat-ease.

Smoke Camels critically, and
give your taste a chance to appre-
ciate the greater pleasure and sat-
isfaction offered by the more ex-
pensive tobaccos. Other cigarettes,
we believe, will taste flat and in-
sipid to you forever after.

