N
r

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

The Davdidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” .

; FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entcred as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. .

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRAN ....- Editor-in-Chief

A. M. MANSON....- eee Manag:
ging Editor
k Fr Bee sesb lille dcsssecasccdes, Managing Editor
WwW. M ~--Managiog Baier
anaging Editor
bic ‘Athfetic Editor
. EB Exch Editor
. WwW. F Editor
. 8 GAMBUBWAK. 2 .000.2.c0 as Feature Editor
Fie vy Contributing Editor
4 A. Review Editor
DD. te Editor
R. L. A Editor
Cc. F. A Editor
B. B. -A Editor

W. T. i Busi M
A. _H. AON A t Manager
Pah a BateL ad olicitor
4 iitor
& Tie GREMNMEEN Ciawiac Sei oe Oh cu Supe te suEeee uae solicitor
Wor RESPRUNM ies situwee Velie vas luuecu cosusasacoss: solicitor
R.

; icitor
as olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

KE President
i: § GAMBLE = Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN W. L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E; F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL
E. YD E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. TON P. M. ROGERS
B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
. L. GULLETTE T. H, SUTTON
ACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C, HENRY K. D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
: E. LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD vf W. WHITE
W. F.. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

.

MARCH 29, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

It is easy in the world to live. after the
world’s opinion; it is easy in solitude to live
after our own; but the great man is he who
in the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect
sweetness the independence of solitude.

—Emerson.
T).

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Both the varsity and track teams are to be com-
mended on their decisive victories over their re-
spective opponents. Prospects for a good season
look favorable at present, and we hope that the
team will live up to expectations, which we have
every reason to believe will be the case.

T).

Dv

Dr. McSween delivered a powerful address last
Sunday evening at vespers, which every member of
the student body should have heard.

; eleany,

DD:

Pi Delta Alpha, the pre-medical fraternity at Da-
vidson, gave a very interesting program to Davidson
students last Friday night by inviting Dr. Brenizer
of Charlotte to deliver a lecture and show slides on
the goiter and the thyroid gland.

D.

LD

The sun which came out last Sunday for the first
time in about a week’ gave us some hope that after
-all we may have some spring weather, although it
has been rather delayed.

D

Wee Thompson withdrew his name from the list
of nominees for the editorship of The Davidsgnian
due to the fact that he had previously been elected
president of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year.

D

Some members of the student body have recently
been to-Charleston, S._C., to see the world-famous
azalea gardens which are in bloom at this time. They
are well worth seeing and anyone who will not get
a chance to see them again, should see them if he
has the opportunity. ;
D ¥

LU

It will be interesting to note whether the passing
of the beer bill by Congress will cause prosperity to
return any sooner. According to many wet politi-
cians, prohibition was the sole cause of the depres-
. sion, or if not the sole cause, it had a great deal
to do with it. Our guess is that it will take a lot
more than the return of beer to cure the world of

all its ills.
FP).

The Davidsonian extends its congratulations to
Willson and the other new officers of the Athletic
Association.

TD.

Although we are stepping a little out of our line, |

we would like to recommend either one or both of
Lloyd Douglas’ books, “The Magnificent Obsession,”

or “Forgive Us Our Trespasses.” Both are excellent.
Tp.

Members of the track team have something to look

forward to. The trip to Gainesville, Florida, for the

’ meet with the University of Florida should be a
very pleasant one for these men. ar era

A RETROSPECT

One year ago the present editorial staff
commenced to operate “The Davidsonian,”
and now after the lapse of that year we look
back over the year with varied feelings. At
the beginning of our term, we have’ many
high ambitions, a large number of which are
still unfulfilled, although some may have ma-
terialized, and it is not without a feeling of
regret that we turn over the reigns to the
new editor and his staff. A college newspa-

per-can offer untold- opportunities, and~al-—

though we realize that these opportunities
have not been developed to the highest de-
gree possible, we only hope that this last
year’s work has not been wholly in vain.

We would like to urge the student body to
give its entire support to the incoming staff,
because it is only with this help that they can
operate successfully. We appreciate the sup-
port which the members of the student body
gave us this last year, but we realize that
at the same time this support can be im-
proved, and the result would be beneficial to
the newspaper.

In this the last issue of “The Davidsonian”
under the supervision of the old staff, I would
like to acknowledge the aid and assistance
given me from various sources during the
past year. First and foremost I would like
to take this opportunity to acknowledge the
assistance of my mother. Being able to write
more fluently and forcefully than I, she, al-
though her assistance was not sought, has
sent me valuable material and advice from
California which has aided me materially on
the editorial work of the paper. I would also
like to commend the work’ of the members
of the editorial and business staffs of the’
paper, which has been carried on in a most
efficient way this year. While some members
of the staff rise to higher positions, natur-

ally some have to be cut off in order that the |

staff can be narrowed down to the proper
number. This is unfortunate but unavoidable,
and at this time “The Davidsonian’” would
like to express its appreciation of the work
done by these men, without whose aid the
publication of “The Davidsonian” would be
impossible.

The retiring staff wishes the new staff
every success and we have every hope and
assurance that “The Davidsonian” will be
carried forward to new heights.

THOUGHTLESSNESS

It seems that periodically Davidson stu-
dents develop the habit of dropping paper on
the campus walks and on the front campus.
All winter the campus seemed to be in excel-
lent condition, but recently a number of stu-
dents, through sheer thoughtlessness, have
been dropping newspapers, candy wrappers,
and other things on the campus. Davidson
College can pride itself on having one of the
most beautiful campuses of any college in
the South for its size we believe, and it sur-
passes the campuses of many larger colleges
in beauty. Undoubtedly the vast majority
of students are not guilty of this, and do
not like to see the campus in any other con-
dition than the best, but those few who do
not seem to care, mar the beauty of it for
the rest of us.

Receptacles are placed about the campus
in convenient positions, and it will not over-
burden anyone to carry the old newspaper a
few yards farther. Each member of the stu-
dent body should make it his duty to remind
anyone dropping anything_on the campus to
carry it to the proper place. Paper on the
campus is bad at. any time of the year, but
it seems especially deplorable in the spring,
which is the most beautiful season of the
year at Davidson, to many people at least. A
little thoughtfulness will go a long way to-
ward improving the physical condition of the
campus. Let’s try to be a little more careful
in the future.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Washington and Lee

Don Bestor and his’ famous orchestra will play for
the Washington and Lee spring dances, April 21
and 22. This orchestra is very popular all over the
country, having played at some of the best hotels
in the United States. The Generals’ school was able
to obtain him for these dances due to the fact that
he had cancelled a previous contract made for these
two days.

Dr. Theodore H. Jack, vice-president of Emory
University and newly-elected president of Randolph-
Macon, in a speech before Phi Beta Kappa at W. &
L., said that the fate of the nation rested on the
college men. Education has been given to the college
men and with this education we can face the present
problems with fearlessness, intelligence, and deter-
mined courage.

Tulane

There is an editorial in The [Tulane Hullabaloo

of March 17th which criticizes the annuals and
praises the University of Chicago for doing away
{with them. The College Humor was the first to con-
gratulate the University of Chicago on their doing
away with annuals. The copy from the College Hu-
mor says that the annual is “an album of ugly faces

“WORLD SPECTATOR

Dr. T. H. D. Griffits, in a recent talk before the
Pan-American Medical Congress, told of one of the
evils of the international airplane lines. The mos-
quitos from tropical countries often stow away on
air transports, and are often brought into the United
States by this method. The insects carry with them

_the_ germs which produce various tropical diseases,

including yellow fever. To prevent the transfer and
spreading of these diseases, Dr. Griffits suggested
disinfection of the passengers and air liners, the sani-
‘tation of regions around the tropical airports, and
other methods which kill all the mosquitos found in
the planes after they have taken off.

It has been about definitely decided that Germany’s
flag shall have the old imperial black-white-red
(schwarzweissrote) with a swastika, emblem of the
Nazis, on the white center. Although the Reichstag
has not. definitely passed upon the bill authorizing
the ‘acceptance of the new flag, it is expected that
action will be taken in the near future. The new
Reichstag has just been consecrated, and all the
actions and minor details show that the present as-
sembly is becoming more and more imperial in its
feelings. The present Reichstag shows the end of the
democracy and the return to some form of govern:
ment not unlike the old imperial rule, although no
one knows exactly what will be the final form of
leadership adopted by Germany.

K. Cuker, a Czechoslovakian chemist, is planning
on running his automobile with sugar as the fuel.
He intends to, use the explosive property of finely
powdered sugar as the basis of his invention. It is
well known that a great many different varieties
of dust explode’ violently if ignited. Sugar, however,
is best adapted to use in an internal combustion

engine because it leaves no ash in the cylinder. Mr.

Cuker, in working on his invention, uses a mixture
of alcohol, naphthaline, and sugar powder to run-his
motor. The liquids tend to guarantee the firing of
the sugar powder. The reason for the desirability
of a new type of motor fuel is that liquid petroleums
are very expensive in Europe. It is not known exactly
what the cost of, operation of the new fuel would be.

The recent California earthquake killed several
people and destroyed a great many. buildings. A
coroner’s jury was formed in order to find out if it
was the fault of the builders that the houses were
destroyed. The verdict of the jury was that the con-
struction engineers should not be held responsible,
as the fatalities were a result of ignorance in build-
ing rather than criminal negligence, The jury de-
cided that the faulty buildings were weak because
of the haste in which they were built, owing to Cali-
fornia’s rapid advancement. All the contractors who
are repairing and rebuilding in the earthquake area,
are urged to, as far as possible, make the new struc-
tures quake-proof., :

The General Electric research laboratory has all
kinds of extremely sensitive instruments for measur-
ing length and volume, as well as pressure. Mechan-
ical instruments can measure as little as one ten-
thousandths of an inch, while an X-ray instrument

- can measure a distance as infinitesimal. as 1-100,000,-

000,000th of an inch. Pressure gauges measure as
little as one-trillionth of atmosphere. As a result of
these accurate instruments, the General Electrical
laboratory claims that it can detect the presence of
a single atom of caesium in a cubic meter of space.
This is claiméd, although yo one has ever seen an
atom, or ever hopes to see one with any of the pres-
ent types of instruments.

The Cunard liner, Franconia, was recently board-
ed by about fifty “pirates” and frantic appeals were
sent out by the wireless operator before the “pi-
rates” captured the radio room. The “pirates” were
members of the Harvard dramatic club, and were
rehearsing a play tobe produced by them. It is cer-
tainly true that the club gained publicity, for all
ships in the North Atlantic tuned in on the SOS
of the Franconia, If anyone objects, however; the
Harvard club will describe some of the antics’ done
by some of the ‘alumni who are now high up in
political and business circles.

At the present time we are making history fast
and furiously. We wonder exactly what the school
books—of-1983 will teach of the crisis of March 4,
1933, and of the international strife, and squabbling
which is present. There are plenty of interesting
and important changes taking place: a revision of
the banking rules, a new President with a great
many new ideas which seem to be coming into use.
Revision of the prohibition law, and a general de-
pression, which we hope is at its l6west ebb. Abroad
we have an overthrow of the German republic, a
situation in Europe which many believe is as dan-
gerous and explosive as conditions in 1914. In the
Orient, Japan is warring on China, and the rest of
the world is standing by, watching her. War is also
being carried on in South America. To give any com-
plete information of even one of these phases would
take volumes, but the future histories will probably
condense the situation of*today into one chapter.

and-worse~printing.” Maybe these faces are ugly,
but when a man looks at these, years after he has
graduated, there ‘are memories connected with these
persons that he will recall. Besides these “ugly
faces” there are also some beautiful faces repre-
sented by feminine pulchritude, which are very pleas-
ing to gaze upon. /

I SAW

How sweet to awaken in the morn
When sunbeams first begin to creep
Across the lea, and then to turn

Right back again and go to sleep.
—Thresa Crowd.

Chap I
“Glad to meet you.”
Chap II
“Isn’t the moon beautiful?”
Chap III
“Oozum love wuzum?”
Chap IV
“Do you—”
3 do—”
: ~ Chap V
“Do-da-da-da!”
Chap VI

“Where the samhill’s dinner?”

... a certain party ask man-about-town Coley
Windham if he heard Gypsy Smith while. in Gas-

*tonia recently. Coley replied, “No, you know I seem

to miss all those good orchestras.” Tee hee!

. and heard an individual say he wasn’t going
home for the Easter holidays because he’s “trained
for long distances.” In a way it’s true; he has lots

of ground to cover before June. I suppose those who

are going home will be burning gasoline instead of
the midnight oil for a few days.

. .. that smart little dog belonging to Dr. Cum-
mings all over the place last week. No matter where
you were, he was there too, whether it was on class
or at a track meet at the stadium. He was perched
on the Dr.’s desk when classes began Monday morn-
ing. Dr. Cummings is an expert at teaching dogs
tricks, partly because he is so firm with them. I
hear that at the track meet with Furman Saturday
this remarkable creature tried to enter several events
and his favorite diversion was to set a pace for the
varsity.

... and overheard a Sig Up discussing Shakespeare
with a ‘confrere the other night. They decided that
Bacon wrote Shakespeare plays because some of the
language in them is so impolite Shakespeare would
have been too much of a gentleman to use it.

. . . by The Davidsonian where the college cer-
tainly takes an interest in its alumni. It read like
this, ‘We will be very glad to hear of the death of
any of the alumni.”

-.. genial Professor Fleagle working in his gar-
den of an afternoon last week. He has peas, snap
beans, and all kinds of vegetables already coming
Up. Speaking of gardens, I hear that another pro-
fessor had a garden which was not so successful,
but his neighbor’s chickens took a first prize at the
Charlotte poultry show.

. a large number of the college contingent go
pariotic and attend the recent ball given in honor
of the pages attending the D. A. R. conference; The
music was good, the pages charming, and there
were so many stags the girls did not develop that
wall-flower complex. Oh, and I forgot: to mention it
was. free and that explains the large attendance.
Cab Calloway’s Charlotte appearance was also the
occasion of another giddy, gay, and glamorous af-
fair. The orchestra came straight from the Cotton

Club in ’ole New York and the music was up to the
minute.

... Ed Hancock) president of the Red and Black
Masquers, depart for Charleston, city of romance,
cool breezes, and beautiful belles, last Friday. He
went especially to see the blooming azaleas and re-
ports a wonderful trip.

TO “I SAW”
Listen reporters and you shall hear
How we “The Davidsonian” revere
With “Quips and Cranks and wanton wiles,’
It keeps our faces wreathed in smiles.

We read your paper every week
And accept its word as law,

And now, may I my mind bespeak
The best column ds. “T SAW.”

If I should give it honor due

Would you accept me to your crew?
I'll spy on every youth and maid
Who sometimes call a heart a Spade.

A gardenia to the writer goes
For holding down the job,

But, why not try some keyhole news
You needn’t turn the knob,

Your knowledge should
grow from m
Of the boys we find so fair a

Don’t hold out anything you see
We'll help the foolish ones to bear.
(She don’t know Davidson.)

Forgive the wi i i
Confessions Oo : ae eae
No longer do I have my spies
Please, in the column make me wise.
HOPEFULLY
A SILENT LOVE.

TIP POFF.

