THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

TREKKING WEST

STIRRING PAGEANTRY IN OPENING
CEREMONIES AT LOS ANGELES

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

Entering the Los Angeles stadium, one is
struck first by its immensity. It is the larg-
est stadium in the New World, with the ex-
ception of Soldier Field in Chicago. At the
Olympiad hundreds of flags, the colors of
all the competing nations, floated above its
rim. The place seemed radiant with rippling
flags and thousands of people dressed in
white were streaming in the great tunnels
to witness the games.

On the peristyle were the words of Baron
De Coubertin, representative of the spirit in
which the games are held, “THE IMPOR-
TANT THING IN THE OLYMPIC GAMES
IS NOT WINNING, BUT TAKING PART.
THE ESSENTIAL THING IS NOT CON-
QUERING, BUT FIGHTING WELL”

We sat down with the crowd of 105,000
jamming the coliseum and waited only a
short while until the ceremonies of the stir-
ring pageant began. Two thousand athletes,
the youthful flower of the world, passed
proudly in the Parade of Nations, their 39
flags waving in the brilliant sunshine of a
perfect day.

Vice-President Charles Curtis re-
ceived on his arrival by Count Henri De
Baillet-Latour, President of the International
Olympic Committee, and William May Gar-
jand, President of the Olympiad Committee,
who made more than ten trips to Europe
in an effort to bring the games to America.
After the presentation ceremony these dig-
nitaries proceeded to the tribune of honor,
while the choir sang “The Star-Spangled
3anner.” Lieut. Harold_Roberts led this mag-
nificently organized chorus of 2,000 voices
and it was a choral achievement that will
never be forgotten.

After a hushed silence, Vice-President
Curtis pronounced the games officially
opened with these sixteen words, “IN THE
NAME OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES I PROCLAIM OPEN
THE OLYMPIC GAMES OF LOS AN-
GELES, CELEBRATING THE TENTH
OLYMPIAD OF THE MODERN ERA.”

DRAMA UNFOLDED

Instantly the fanfare of trumpets on the
tall peristyle sounded the call. The Olympic
torch burst into flames. This gave the ath-
letes their cue and as the column of repre-
sentatives from-Greece entered those in the
buge stadium started cheering while mem-
bers of the committees formed in half circle
on the field in front. of the tribune of honor.

There was a salute of ten cannon followed
by 1,000 choral voices while the Olympic
flag was dramatically raised, towering amid
the other colors flapping from the ramparts.
Dr. Robert Sproul, president of the Univer-
sity of California, delivered the benediction. |

THE OLYMPIC OATH |

The. most tremendous moment came when
all the athletes assembled to pronounce the

was

Olympic oath. Lieut. George C. Calnan of
the United States Navy, veteran of three |
international classics, stepped forward and |
raised his.hand, repeating the oath, “WE |
SWEAR WE WILL TAKE PART IN THE |
OLYMPIC GAMES IN LOYAL COMPE-|

TITION, RESPECTING THE REGULA-|
TIONS WHICH GOVERN THEM AND
DESIROUS OF PARTICIPATING «IN|
THEM IN THE TRUE SPIRIT OF
SPORTSMANSHIP FOR THE HONOR
OF OUR COUNTRY AND FOR THE

GLORY OF SPORT.”

The athletes assembled represented the
cream of the athletic world. The erectness
of their carriage, the eagerness and pride
with which they stepped behind their flags,
and the attractiveness of the girl athletes
combined to make an everlasting impression.
Some of them had come ‘from countries ten
thousand miles away—by steamship, train,
automobile, and airplane.

PARADE OF NATIONS |

The dramatic entrance of Greece was a
fitting gesture since the games originated |
there. The other countries-followed in alpha-+
betical order with the United States bringing
up the rear. The Argentines came in white
polo shirts and trousers, followed by Aus-
tralia, who had the first girl representative;
then Austria, and Belgium. Brazil came
next, in white sweaters trimmed in blue.
They were followed by the Canadians, who
appeared in dazzling red coats and white
flannels.

Chite, China, Colombia, were next, with
cne representative each. They were followed
by Czechoslovakia and Denmark. The sole
representative from Egypt passed in a red
turban, and Esthonia just preceded Finland.
The French delegation! was in blue coats
and white trousers. England was led by
Lord Burghley. This titled Englishman was
the most popular man at the Olympics.
Germany was dressed in ‘grey trousers, blue
coats and yachting caps.

Haiti, Holland, and Hungary passed, fol-
lowed by India in blue turbans and blue
coats. The Irish Free State colors were
carried by Dr. Patrick O'’Callighan. Italy's
delegation was dressed in white outfits, blue
shirts and white trousers. There were no
women athletes in their party because II
Duce does not favor their taking part in
athletics.

The Japanese were in straw hats, and blue
coats. They were followed by Jugoslavia,
Latvia, Mexico, New Zealand, Ngrway, the
Philippine—tIslands,Poland,Perteual,—Spain,
Sweden Switzerland South Africa Uruguay,
and the United States. I missed Russia but
their government is not recognized by ours
and she could not take part.

One of the striking features of the spec-
tecle was the courtesy shown the athletes
by the spectators. Everyone’ was requested
to remain seated five minutes after the cere-
monies to allow the athletes to reach Olympic
Village before the traffic jam. Those pres-
ent @xtended this courtesy to the partici-
pants and while remaining sang songs.

There was a’ wonderful spirft exhibited at
the games. We heard the crowd cheer when
a negro school teacher from Chicago won
his race and became the fastest runner in
the world. We will not make fun of other
countries when we come to know them bet-
ter and realize how these sports draw good
sports together.

In closing I will quote Count De Baillet-
Latour, “May joy and good fellowship reign,
and in this manner, may the Olympic Torch

pursue its way through the ages, increasing
friendly understanding among nations, for
the good of a humanity always more enthusi-
astic, more courageous and more pure.”

The great difference, intellectually speak-
ing, between one man and another, is sim-
ply the number of things they can see in a
given cubic yard of space. Do you remem-
ber Huxley's famous lecture on a Piece of
Chalk, delivered to the working men of Nor-
wich in 1866, and how the piece of chalk told
him secrets of the immeasurable past, se-
crets of the unfathomed depths of the sea?
The same thing happens with a book. I re-
member picking up a copy of Macbeth be-
longing to a great Shakespearean scholar,
Andrew Bradley, and reading casually his
penciled notes in the margin. The scene was
one which IT knew by heart and thought I
understood; but his notes showed me that I
had missed about half a dozen points on
every page. It seems to me that the writers
who have the power of revelation are just
those who, in some particular of life, have
seen or felt considerably more than the aver-
age run of intelligent human beings. It is
this specific power of seeing and feeling
more things to the cubic yard in some part
of the world that makes a writer's work
really inspiring.—Gilbert Murray in “Tradi-
tion and Progress.”

Waste

Euripides.

not fresh tears over old griefs.

Probably even the most cautious inquirer
would be willing to assert that, as individ-

uals, men can-and do learn. But is it quite
so clear that men in groups, in societies, in
nations, can and d6 learn? If so, what is the
explanation of constant trying all over again,
in the name of progress, of those forms of
folly, of wrong and of oppression which the
scholar well knows have long since been
demonstrated to be futile as aids in the de-
velopment of the life of men? If one reads
with reflection the history of those civiliza-
tions and those states which have come and
gone, well as the teachings and the
preachings of those leaders of the intellectual
and spiritual life who are the chief orna-
ments of human history, and then looks
about him at the happenings of today, he
will have care not to be too confident in giv-
ing an affirmative answer to the question,
Can men learn?—Nicholas Murray Butler:

*

as

For at least three quarters just prior to
his leaving the university, the student should
be trained in the reading of newspapers and
helped to follow the trend of -world affairs.
If such a program is put into effect in the
University of Washington, its graduates will
be far +better educated and their influence
far more weighty in the body of citizens of
which they have become members.—Uni-
versity of Washington Daily, 1926.

The degree of intelligence exercised by
alt-of-us-certainty doesn’t seem to entitle us
to much credit as wide-awake men.—Melvin
A. Traylor.

A lesson which history teaches us is that
the truly great man is not the extremist.—
John Drinkwater.

Wages are much to be preferred to char-
ity —Bishop Manning.

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

°.

has to be a different kind of
tobacco from that used in
cigarettes...and it has to be

made by an entirely different

process...

UT in Kentucky, where they have

pretty women, fast

blue grass, there grows a tobacco called
White Burley. It.doesii’t grow anywhere

else in the world.

There-is-a_type of this White Burley
that is best suited for pipe smoking. It
is neither too thick nor too thin. It is
not light and chaffy; at the same time,

it is not rank or strong.

31” is the government classification

for White Burley.

Since no other pipe tobacco has yet
been found which seems to equal White
Burley, this is what we use in making

Granger Rough Cut.

Next, we use the Wellman Method,
a famous 1870 method of making pipe
tobacco, to give Granger its fine flavor
and fragrance. Then, too, Granger is
“Rough Cut” — just like they used to
“whittle” their tobacco off a plug with
a jack-knife. It smokes cool, lasts longer

and never gums a pipe.

And finally, we want to sell Granger
for 10 cents. Good tobacco—right pro-
cess—cut right. So we put Granger in
a sensible soft foil pouch instead of an
expensive package, knowing that a man

can’t smoke the- package.

Granger has not been on sale very
long, but it has grown to be a popular
smoke. °Folks seem to like it.

horses, © and

“U.S. Type

TEN CENTS

&

©1933
UGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO, *
