THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

The Grand Canyon

* By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This article is next to the
last of a series describing a tour of the
West while attending the convention
of the National Editorial Association.)
A tour of the West would not be com-

plete without visiting the Grand Canyon,
and returning by Williams, Arizona, one
ecomes—to—Grand—Canyon—National_Park—
the land of subiime canyons and gorgeous
chasms.

“Touched by a light that hath no name,
A glory never sung,

Aloft on sky and mountain wall,

Are God’s great pictures hung!”

Many«.stories are told of what, people
have said on first looking at Grand Can-
yon. Rising from the base of the canyon
were mountains with their tops a little be-
low. The flaming colors defied description.
Walking up a little further the scene was
entirely different with an even more beau-
tiful picture.

The canyon presented a wonderful sight
with its symphony of mass and color. The
Colorado River had chistled out the inner
gorge which was bordered by tier on tier
of mountains carved by erosion from the
earth’s strata. Take the grandest thing to
be found and paint it in all its glory and
the result is the Grand Canyon.

BEAUTIFUL HARMONY

All below was hemmed in and only the
sky was an outlet for the rocks millions
of years old. It seemed to express the har-
mony sought in pictures and was as beau-
tiful as a rare flower. Its immensity was
inconceivable and the panorama changed
from a crystal clearness to a slumbrious
haze. »

The Colorado River was observed at the
bottom of the canyon, between walls of
black granite, twelve hundred feet high, as
it flowed from the side of a mountain and
glided in its oily smoothness until it broke :
into violent waves where it beat against |
the rocks. Thousands have tried in vain to
describe it but, can one describe a gulf
more than two hundred miles long, forty to
twenty wide, one of eighteen that stretched
away toward the source of the Colorad
more-than a thousand miles? It has been
called “God’s most flaming signature across
earth’s face.”

One can compare it and describe it, but
after all the Grand Canyon is the Gran
Canyon and that is all that can be said. If
Niagara Falls, the Empire State Buildine
or the Washington Monument were placed |
in this giant pot, field glasses would be
necessary to pick them out from the whole |
panorama on your next visit.-—“In- these
depths there dwells the silence, majesty,
and poetry of the mystics, while a holy ter-
ror defends its shades against worldly ,
thoughts and the mean passions of earth.” |

Fred Harvey’s famous El Trovar Hote! |
was located on the edge of the canyon.
Visiting the observatory built on Bright
Angel Trail, we looked through the binocu-
lar telescope for a glimpse of the peaks be-
low. In the Hopi House we ran across
Josephine Biddle, who lives out from Phila-
delphia. The Biddles were.among those who
toured the West with the newspaper crowd.
She said her brother, John Biddle, had
taken a burro and was exploring the trails
leading down into the canyon.

The luncheon at Bright Angel on the can-
yon rim was delicious. It is the same food
served at El Trovar Hotel only it is much
more reasonable. All water used at the
hotel has to be carried many miles in tank
cars and the supplies have to be transport-
ed, too.

HERMIT RIM DRIVE

After lunch we drove along the southern
rim of the canyon. On its sides were pines,
cedars, junipers, pinyon, mesquite, Spanish
bayonet and other wild flowers. There was
also a wide range of bird life to be found
here.

We met one of the boys who was in the
party in California trip and he had just
flown over the canyon. He described it to
me in glowing terms and exclaimed, “It
cost me only ten dollars!” I didn’t have time
to say that I would like to fly over the can-
yon, too, because before I knew what was
happening Daddy had spirited me away
from the tempter and I was driving back
toward Williams, Arizona.

|
CARLSBAD CAVERNS
Mr. Guy Woolford described Carlsbad |
Caverns in such an enthusiastic way while
in Atlanta Daddy determined to visit it the
first opportunity. Carlsbad is said to be the
most spectacular of subterranean marvels.
It is hidden beneath the cactus foothills of
the Guadalupe Mountains of the Southeast-
ern Rockies. Since it was discovered within
the last few years it has not been open
long to visitors. One walks more than seven
miles underground while exploring it, and
42 miles, including many corridors and
chasms, are yet: unexplored. |
SEVEN-MILE TOUR
At the entrance of the cavern guides
joined the party to escort it beneath the

surface. First came the Queen’s Room,
where we left the outside world and en-
tered a veritable fairyland. In this cham-
ber were crystal curtains that seemed to
be made of the finest silk and glistened and
dazzled the eyes with their silvery sheen.

The air was cool and bracing and the tem-
perature remained the same both summer
and winter. The room where dinner was
served was more than 350 feet high and
three-quarters of a mile in length, and after
the long walk looked inviting. The plates
were served, cafeteria style and it was a
novel experience to eat in a caefteria 750
feet below the earth’s surface.

The Papoose Room had been opened only
a month on our visit and new rooms are
being added all the time. “The Giant Dome”
was the most wonderful formation in the
cavern. It takes a hundred years for these
stalagmites to grow a quarter of an inch
and this one was 62 feet high and 16 feet
in diameter. Geologists have estimated its
age at 60,000,000 years.

At the “Rock of Ages” a rest period was
called and all the lights turned off. In one
corner of the great cavern a girl was: sing-
ing ‘“‘Rock of Ages.’’ There were about 350
in the party and nobody made a sound. The
effect was astounding sitting there in utter
darkness hearing only her voice singing
this hymn.

FLIGHT OF BATS

Coming back by elevator to the earth’s
surface, we waited until the flight of the

bats in the late afternoon. During the sum-
mer months millions of these bats fly out
at dusk and return at dawn. It required
three hours for them to leave the cave and
they were so numerous they resembled a
black cloud. The flight of these bats was
responsible for the discovery of the cave.
Jim White, a cowboy, noticed this black
cloud while rounding up cattle a few years
ago and later explored the cavern, being
the first person to view its wonders.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS

Champaign, Ill.—(IP)—Is there too much
democracy in American universities? Are
there too many students in the colleges of
the country who ought to be in the mills
or behind plows?

That may be-the-opinion of some educa-
tors, but when New York University be-
gins operating under its new president next
fall, it will find itself on the side of more
democracy in education.

The new president is to be Dr. Harry
W. Chase, president of the University of
Illinois and former president of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, who believes that
American universities must train leaders
and raise the general level of “social en-
lightenment in this complex age,” if they
are to perform their full function.

“As I see it,” he says, “the function of
our great American universities is two-
fold. They must, of course, train leaders. ...

“If higher education can mean greater

usefulness, more happiness and a higher
degree of enlightenment for men and wom-
en who have come to them, they have ac-
complished something fine and worthy. Such
a belief as this has found expression in
our American life in the tremendous in-
crease in enrollment in our universities of
late years, and, in spite of all the problems
of such a growth, I am convinced it is in-
dicative of a significant viewpoint toward
higher education in American life which in-
stitutions—like—New—York—University—are
responding to with a high degree of capac-
ity. Certainly if Nevg York University were
to err, I would rather have it err on the
side of being too democratic.”

Chapel Hill, N. C.—(IP)—Courses in
marriage are a proper and necessary part
of the modern university curriculum, ac-
cording to Prof. Ernest R. Groves of the

University of North Carolina Sociology De-
partment, who has just written‘a book tell- °
ing about it.

The book, “Marriage,” was published last
week by Henry Holt & Co. Dr. Groves says,
in part:

“We have at present sufficient informa-
tion emerging from the various fields of
science that have to do with human be-
havior to justify the serious. study of mar-
riage by college men and women.

“From every quarter the demand is in:
sistent that preparation be given those en-
tering marriage, and it is generally real-
ized among educators that the past laissez
faire attitude cannot persist.

“Tt is~apparent that a definite responsi-
bility for the development of preparation
for marriage rests upon the colleges and
that the time has come when no institution

(Continued on page 4)

To See if Our Ads Are Read
and to Prove the Quality of Our Work

we again offer to accept this ad and 15c, if a |
sented by 3 o’clock Saturday, March 18th, for
one of our good hair cuts.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

de
nod

A
Ni ILLUSION:

In India, the fakirs present a spectacle to tourists.
Two lovely performers break bottles and lamp
chimneys before the eyes of the audience, and throw
the jagged pieces into a box already filled with
broken glass. They step barefooted into the box
and do an Oriental dance in the glass without in-

jury.

EXPLANATION:

The performers toughen their feet in a strong so-
lution of alum water and thoroughly rub them
with pulverized resin before they appear. They
throw the freshly broken glass around the edges of
the platform. The glass on which they actually do
dance is very thick, heavy, and filed or ground so
that the sharp edges are rounded off. The ;girls
just pretend to dance on the sharp glass.

Source: “Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions’ 2

by Albert A. Hopkins, Munn & Co., New York.

Copyright, 1933, B. J. Beynoids Tobacco Company

CAMELS -

One of the tricks of cigarette advertis-
ing is to pretend that “Heat Treatment”
is an exclusive process, making ore cig-
arette better than any other.
EXPLANATION: A// cigarette manu-
facturers use heat treatment. It is a
routine process of manufacture. The
first Camel cigarette ever made was
manufactured under the heat-treating

Lvs FUN To BE POOLED
...LLS MORE FUN To Know

process: Every one~ of the~billions” of
Camels produced since has received
the necessary heat treatment.

Harsh, raw tobaccos require infen-
‘sive processing under high tempera-
tures. The more éxpensive tobaccos,
which are naturally mild, call for only
a moderate application of heat. Heat
treatment never can make cheap, in-
ferior tobacco good.

a It is a fact, well known by

leaf tobacco experts, that
Camels are made from finer,
MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand.

This is the most important statement
ever made ina cigarette advertisement.
Weigh its words: Consider what it

- means. Then try Camels.

Camels are fresh...in the air-tight,

welded Humidor Pack.

NO TRICKS

~SUST COSTIIER

TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
t |
