THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933"

The Babidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated, Collegiate Press

= 1933 Game fcovrdace) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION

RATES: Ten cents per copy;
legiate year.

$2.00 the Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post. Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, i

Articles for publication must be in the hands of ALY GL Editors
00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the itor are

welcome, but ‘all communications intended for publication
must be signed.
oy he Bet dsio cs sssckasdcksociquecssccaseatiesssasal ass Senen Editor

. JOHNSON..... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

G. iL. Managing Editor
E. F. Managing Editor
B. L. anaging Editor
K. D. WEE anaging Editor
JACK HELLINGER- “Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVELL, JR.. --Sports Editor
RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS.....-.----------------Editorial Writer
. A. HUNTER... Exchange Editor
b. B. 4 Feature Editor
S. K. Feature Editor
S. C. Feature Editor
c Ss. 4 Feature Editor
D. W. -Review Editor
L. W. DY, .--Associate Editor
Ay F: PA She . --Associate Editor
W. _M. THOMPSON ---Assocjate Editor
JACK WILL: is, Riser a aes esas Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
ssistant Business Manager

ssistant Busi s Manager
Assistant B anager

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1933

Today is your
have,

day and mine, the only day we
the day in which we play our part. What our
part may signify in the great whole we may not
understand; but we are here to play it, and now is
our time. This we know: it is a part of action not
of whining. It is a part of love, not cynicism. Tt is
for us to express love in terms of hionan helpful-
ness. —Jordan.

t- MERRY CHRISTMAS

Since Christmas recess begins Wednesday, De-
cember 20, at 12:30 p, m., another edition of The
Davidsonian would not be out before students
leave for their homes. Therefore with this issue
we bring to a close our work on this weekly for
the year 1933. :

The next issue of The Davidsonian will appear
Wednesday, January 10, 1934,

The Davidsonian staff wishes to take this
means of expressing “A. Merry Christmas and
a Happy New Year” to the Davidson student
body and to its other readers.

SUPPORT THE Y. M. C. A. DRIVE

Tonight will be your last opportunity to
pledge your support to the Y. M. C. A. in its
Christmas Fund drive.

Each year the Davidson Y. M. C. A. spon
a Christmas Fund drive, the proceeds of which
go to some worthy and needy cause. In past
years the goal of the drive has been set at $1,000.
In 1932 the goal was not reached, so this year
it has been set at $750.

This year the contributions will be used to
support the work of the Y. M. C. A. in the mill
district across the railroad tracks. As was point-
ed out in chapel Monday morning, there is great
need among the mill workers.

The $750 goal will be easily reached if every
student does his part to make the drive a suc-
The Y does not ask that every man give
beyond his individual capacity, but it merely of-
fers him an opportunity to contribute what he
can to a pressing cause.

Att-Davidson students are members of the
Davidson Y. M. C. A. and should take part in its
work, who are unable to render their
services should by all means lend aid by some
contribution. The cause is a worthy one. Give
it your support. If you have not yet contributed,
you have an opportunity to do so tonight.

cess.

Those

STEALING

A starving man may steal bread for himself
and family, a professional thief may make away
with the crown jewels, a banker may swindle
thousands out of their hard-earned savings, and
a so-called Davidson student may steal money
from a fellow ‘student. Stealing is judged as a
sin by the majority of people and justly so, no
matter what the cause or circumstances, but we
believe that if the purpose of this article was to
philosophize, it would be possible to draw some
line of demarkation between the types listed
above and classify them according to their grav-
ity. We also firmly believe that in all probabil-
ity the latter example would be chosen as the
most despicable and heinous of them all.

There are in our midst indivduals who have
stooped low enough to steal money from their
student associates. Not only have they stolen,
but they have added injury to insult by being
brazen and contemptuous of all common laws
of decency and proper conduct by remaining

among us, mingling with us, perhaps even as

;
friends and companions... They have hidden in
the crowd and proved themselves to be both
thieves and cowards. A common thief has a
certain amount of courage and bravery in his
make-up for without some such characteristic it
would be impossible for him to accomplish his
objectives.
He takes practically no chance; he cannot easily
be singled out, branded with his true character,
and shipped.

Unconsciously protected by the group of hon-
orable men who compose the body of which he
is unwelcomely a member, he plies his nefarious
trade, Ile steals from men who are theoretically
his friends; he robs men who have need of money
as much or very probably more than he does; he
sells his own soul and entirely quenches his spark
of conscience. It is indeed necessary to invent
a new category in which to place this type of
criminal.

The person or persons who have stolen pos-
sessions from students this year may read this
editorial. [If he does, let him take heed and gov-
ern his actions accordingly. We would like to
catch him, but if he must remain with us, his
conduct must be amenable to the rules of society.

To the students: you could do no greater serv-
ice to yourself or to the student body than to
lend material aid in the apprehension and dis-
missal of the contemptible individual who has
perpetrated such crimes. If we must await his
removal by time or by other circumstances over

which we have no control, let us make it exceed- °

ingly difficult and extremely dangerous for him
by being careful with our money and belong-
ings, and by letting our sentiment and attitude
be actively shown and vigorously felt through-
out the student body. —R. P.-T.

Here and There

In a recent number of the American Medical
Journal statistics were quoted to show that the
general health of college students was falling
from the standards of some years ago. Research
over a number of years revealed that students’
health grew worse during the yedrs spent in
school.

Atter a one-year trial, crew racing has been
eliminated from_the sports schedule of the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles.

Bob Woll, Monmouth College star and one of |

the outstanding players in the piste Nineteen,
weighs only 129 pounds.

Women are invading the male professions at
the University of Wisconsin where 74 of the 121
students in the School of Journalism are women;
they also outnumber the men in the School of
Physical Education and have made their debut
in agriculture and chemical engineering.

Hunting the polecat is the latest intramural
sport at Earlham College.

Professors at the University of Chicago are
combining football and geometry by preparing
texts with geometrical theorems illustrated by
football plays and devices. This is one way to
get students to study geometry.

A student at Marshall College is earning his
way through college by embalming cats to sell
to anatomy students.

One of the finest morgues operated by a col-
lege newspaper is maintained by the Temple
University News which began keeping clippings
of all its material in 1926.

“Doctors bury their mistakes; | make mine
into sausage,” stated Professor Brancioni after
he discovered that Louisiana ,State University’s
prize-winning Poland China sow was butchered
by mistake by the meat-cutting class. :

At the University of Minnesota hospital soup
is cooked in large steam-heated 50-gallon kettles
and more than twenty-five tons of dessert are
turned out in a year.

Dr. Frederick Rand Rogers, dean of Boston
University’s Department of Health, declared that
the beautiful chorus girl is almost certain to be
intelligent; that catch phrases like “Beautiful
but dumb” are merely superstitions and ‘that in
the long run good things tend to go together.

Fifteen poultry raisers from Indiana and IlIli-
nois have registered in the poultry short course
at Purdue University.

Dr. J. F. Doneboo, an alumnus of Washington
and Jefferson, has seen the last two hundred and
one football games played by teams_represent-
ing his alma mater.

The five most heavily endowed universities in
the United States are Harvard, Yalé; Columbia,
Chicago, and the University of Rochester.

Not so with a thief on this campus.:

Felix Relieved
It took Dr. J. W. MacConnell,
Davidson’s student physician, to
relieve Felix, the college's mascot
wildcat, of the agony caused by
a_small collar around his neck.
+~1)r. MacConnell, aided by Train-
r “Doc” Charlie, and Coaches
Bruce Peabody and “Doc” Un-
ger, cut the collar in two, mak-
ing use of a pruning knife and
a hook attached to a long pole

to perform the operation.
With the collar off his neck,
Felix is now wondering if some-
. one won't provide him with a

more healthful domicile.

TOMMY TUCKER TO
PLAY ON DEC. 15-16

(Continued from page 1)
of the class, has charge of the pro-
gram.

Several members of the faculty with
their wives have been invited to act
as chaperons at all the dances. Invi-
tations have been sent to the follow-
ing Charlotte people to also act as
chaperons: Mr. and Mrs. Osmond Bar-
ringer, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Edens, Mr.
and Mrs. Clarence Kuester, and Mr.
and Mrs. Caldwell McDonald.

Girls from all sections of the South
and East have been invited to attend
this house party. A large number of
recent graduates have: planned to re-
turn to: the campus for this occasion.

All of the ten social fraternities on
Davidson campus will hold open
house in connection with the sopho-
more week-end.

the

DR. LAMBETH URGES
TRAINING OF MINDS

PI KAPPA ALPHA HONORS
RETIRING COUNCILOR

(Continued from page 1)
towns, and a delegation of students
from Mu Chapter at Presbyterian Col-
lege.

Dr. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry
Department at Davidson, has been a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha since 1886,
being initiated by Tota Chapter at
Hampden-Sydney. It was through his
vision that the fraternity was able to
weather a siege of hard luck and trou-
ble in the late 1880's, and it was with
regret that the 1933 convention accept-
ed his resignation as Grand Councilor.

Dr. Arbuckle’s resignation brought
to a close almost fifty years of active
service in Pi Kappa Alpha organiza-
tion. He was first associated with the
Grand Council in 1894 when he was
elected as Grand Princeps for a three-
year term. Again in 1901 he was elect-
ed to the same position for a four-
year term.. Then in 1911 he was elect-
ed Grand Councilor, in which capacity
he served continuously until! he volun-
tarily declined the position at the or-
ganization’s national convention held
last August in Troutdale in the Pines
in Colorado.

Dr. Arbuckle early became interest-
ed in boys’ and fraternal work. Be-
his association with Pi Kappa
Alpha, he has taken an active inter-
est in Boy Scouts, Y. M. C. A., and
other honorary and social fraternal or-
ganization.

He organized and was scoutmaster
of the first troop of Boy Scouts in
Atlanta, Ga., taking up the activity
while he was a professor at Agnes
Scott College. He still prizes highly
a cup which was presented him by the
troop when he left Atlanta.

sides

(Continued from page 1)

into membership in the scholarship
organization.
The initiated included J, A. Mc-

Geachy of Fayetteville, W. M. Thomp-
son and W. T. Thompson of Richmond,
Va., J. F. Dill of Buchanan, Va., Odi
Casali oof Welch, W. Va., and J. T.
Blair of Albemarle, all members of the
Senior class, and Neal Yates Pharr
and S. T. Henderson, both of Char-
lotte; J. M. McBryde of Fort Defiance,
Va.; W. G. Humphrey, of Greenwood,
Miss.; E. G. Lilly, of Birmingham,
Ala., and C, B. Bailey, of Charlottes-
ville, Va. Emory Flinn, of New York,
another member of the Mimir Society,
was unable to attend the initiation, al-
though extended a bid.

After the ( the newly-initi-
ated and faculty members
retired to the banquet hall for the an-
nual fall banquet, presided over by
Professor Archibald Currie. J. A. Mc-
Geachy, FE. G. Lilly, Dr. J. W. Mac-
Connell, and Dr. Lambeth were called
upon for short talks.

address,
members

LETTERS AWARDED TO
CROSS-COUNTRY AND
FOOTBALL MEN

(Continued from page 1)
Higgins, W. H.; Peters, R. T.;
K. M., and Wilson, R. M.

At the same meeting of the Athletic
Council, the matter of the size and
type of varsity letters was decided. It
decided that all varsity letters
given in major sports would be eight
inches in size. The minor sports let-
ters will have an insignia inside the
letter for differentiation, but willbe
the same size as the regular letter.
Other minor details were decided upon.

The motion was also made and car-
ried at this meeting to give’a special
award to any man who might win a
state athletic event or make an all!-
state team. Also a special award will
be made to the team which may win a
state championship in any athletic
field,

Friday night, December 8, the six-
teen Davidson football lettermen gath-
ered at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
“Doc” Newton for a smoker and meet-
ing. The lettermen enjoyed several
tables of bridge, followed by informal
discussion of the past and the football
season for next year. Afterwards an
election was held when the captains
and managers were chosen. Following
this, delicious refreshments were
served by Mrs. Newton, assisted by
Mrs. Gene McEver.

L. D.;
Scott,

Was

DAVIDSON MEN PLAY
IN MUSIC CONCERTS

(Continued from page 1)
number on the program and appeared
to be the audience’s favorite.

The Music Department of Davidson
College was well represented in this
group of outstanding artists. Harrison
Bradley was a member of the clarinet
section, David McLain of the drum
section, Hubert Morris of the french
horn section, and A.-M. Cunningham
of the trumpet section. Professor
James C. Pfohl, head of the Davidson
Music Department, played in the bass
violin group.

Dr. Arbuckle came to Davidson in
1913, and in his first year here was
elected one of the faculty advisers to
the Y. M. C. A., and has served con-
tinuously since, being re-elected every
three years by a vote of the student
body. When the Y. M. C. A. organized
a board to control its finances, Dr.
Arbuckle was elected president of the
board, a position which he still holds.

He was also instrumental in organ-
izing Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical
fraternity, which has since grown into
a national society. He also holds mem-
bership in Phi Beta Kappa and Omi-
cron Delta Kappa. :

Prominent Pi K. A.’s present *at the
ceremony included District Princeps
Arthur P. Harris, Jr., of Albemarle;
C. R. Johnson, W. S. Horne, T. T.
Upshur, W. Tisdale, L. A. McCall, Jr.,
all of Presbyterian College; A. V. Rus-
sell and H. L. Horton, Jr., of Albe-
marle; Edwin F, Shewmake, of David-
son; Frank C. Smith, A. J. Beall, Rob-
ert W. Lafferty, and George M. Ivey,
all of Charlotte.

Prof. Currie to Address
Alpha Phi Epsilon

Last Friday night the Davidson
Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national
honorary debating fraternity, held its
first official meeting of the year. The
purpose of this meeting was to issue
bids to seven men who have shown
themselves to be outstanding in foren-
sic activities, or who have exhibited
potential speaking ability.

Tonight there will be another meet- |

ing, at’ which time the new men will
be introduced to the faculty. Pro-
fessor Archibald Currie, professor of
political science, will make an address
before the members and newly-pledged
men.

Men to whom bids were issued are
as follows: R. A. Banks, Robert Coit,
John Fitzgerald, Stuart Henry, Rufus
Morrow, and Walter Sprunt.

DR. LINGLE SPEAKS
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson College, addressed the
monthly session of the organization of

“the men of the Belmont Presbyterian

Church Tuesday evening. The meet-
ing, at which supper was served, was
held in the Sunday School building.

On Other Campuses

WASHINGTON AND LEE
A new set of absence rules has been
approved by the Washington and Lee
faculty, and will become effective on
January 29. Under these new regu-
lations, men with a C average, having
cuts allowed them, are permitted to
take without penalty as many volun-
tary absences in each class as there are
class and laboratory meetings each
week. Absences excused on account
of illness are not counted as, voluntary
absences. Students on the dean’s list
are not subject to absence regulations
so long as their work is regarded by

the dean’s office as satisfactory.

VIRGINIA

The University of Virginia and the
Southern Conference seem to be at the
parting of the ways again. The 3-3-3
Athletic Committee met in Charlottes-
ville, and it is reported that one of the
proposals before it was that Virginia
resign from, the conference, make its
own set of rules, and step out into in-
dependent football circles once again.
The proposals have been made before,
but have never been carried through.
If such a move were made, it will be
a great question as to who will be in-
vited to take the vacant place. Wil-
liam and Mary, Richmond University
and Davidson seem to be the ones that |
have the best chance to enter!

Veo Pials

One of the most collosial inventions
of the modern age was uncovered at
V. P. I. the other day. One student,
troubled with the habit of falling
asleep in class, decided to overcome
his handicap. With admirable deter-
mination, he has schooled himself to
go to sleep with his chin in his hands
so that just as he dozes off, the hand
slaps him hard enough to wake him
up again. Peculiar type, these Vir-
ginians!

CITADEL

In accordance with the annual cus-
tom, all members of the fréshman and
varsity football squads were given a
holiday of five days. This holiday
could have been taken by freshmen
and sophomores either after the foot-
ball game Thanksgiving, or they may
begin their Christmas furlough five
days before the remainder of the corps
get off. The juniors and seniors may
distr{bute their ye holidays through
the semester_and take them one at a
time over the week-ends, or may use
them as applied to the soph-fresh rul-
ing!

TEXAS

If a student were to take all the
courses offered by the University of
Texas, he would have to study 106
years at the university, provided he
did not fail any courses; he would then
possess 33 degrees, ranging all the way
from home economics to petroleum en-
gineering.

GEORGIA

At the University of Georgia, it costs
27 cents to cut a class: You pay $40
a quarter for education. A quarter
comprises 11 weeks of five days each
when the off-day is subtracted. Dis-
count five more days for holidays and
suspensions of classes, and a total of
150 classes a quarter is what is ob-
tained for $40. Now by simple divi-
sion one finds that each class you cut
costs 27 cents, and ‘figgers don’t lie.
And then, if you cut a class to take
a co-ed down to the local “ speakeasy”

. . ah welll! :

N. C. STATE

In an examination given recently at
State College, every student in the
class made a perfect grade. The exam
was in Spanish. This was the first
time in the history of the institution
that such an event has occurred. State
students are wondering whether the
professor left the room or not!!

STATIONERY

EY ACEC Mes

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
e

203 Watts

@ Garland Court °

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE: N.C. @

<n

