THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

VARSITY TRACKMEN
MEET FURMAN
HERE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDCAT LINKMEN
MEET RICHMOND
GOLFERS FRIDAY

Varsity Track Team to
Hold Initial Meet With

|
|
Furman Here Saturday

'Keen _Competition Expected Despite
Injuries of Several Last Year’s
Lettermen

Davidson’s Wildcats will open thei¥ track
schedule this Saturday when they meet rep-
resentatives of Furman University, on Rich-
ardson Field. This meet will be the first
for both schools.

§ Not much is known of the strength of
F the visitors, but they should present a strong
team, especially in the field events, com-

ball team which carried the Furman colors
‘last fall.

Captain N. G. Pritchett has been work-
ing his candidates for more than three
weeks, and despite injuries of several of
last year’s lettermen, should put a crack
team on the cinders against Furman Satur-
day. A trial meet among the candidates
themselves was held here last Friday, and
the showing of many of the prospects was
pleasing to the Davidson Coach.

Probably the most interesting event in
the meet will be the 100-yard sprint be-
tween Captain Fred Fleagle, of Davidson,
and Alley, of Furman. The two will renew
a feud which started two years ago at a
/meet in Greenville, S. C. Fleagle barely
nosed the South Carolina sprint champion
out in their first race.

Golf and track will usher in David-

son’s 1933 spring sports program this
Friday, and the ‘scenes which follow
should prove interesting and entertain-
ing to the Davidson students. On the
opening day the Varsity golf team will
meet the Richmond Spiders on the Char-
lotte Country Club course, and the
Freshman track team will be hosts to
the Charlotte High cindermen at Rich-
ardson Field.

The Wildcat golfers should come out vic-
torious over the Richmond team and should
enjoy a successful season thereafter, since

the Davidson team is composed of three let-| po Wildcats will open their season with-
termen, T. P. Caldwell, Jack Wagner, and out the services of Jack Wagner and Percy
Mac Manson, who were together last year,| McR)rath, lettermen, in the shot event.
and Johnny Thompson, who was a member Wagner cracked his wrist in basketball and
of the team his Freshman year. |McElrath has a knee injury which he re-
| ceived in football. Lee West, a Sophomore

Up for First Game

{
i
|

| Coaches Unger and Mathis have been
| working hard for the past-two weeks try- |
jing to whip their squad of about twenty- |!
‘five green baseball candidates into shape.

posed mostly of members of a strong foot- |

Eighteen Men Awarded
Varsity Monograms at
Close of Winter Season

‘Kitten Nine Shapes

Numerals Also Awarded to Twelve
Members of Freshman Cage
Team

With the culmination of the 1983 basket-
ball seasony the Davidson College Athletic
Association awarded the varsity “D” to the
following: Captain Bruce Peabody, Captain-
| The coaches aren’t settled on who will | Sect poe a wale le lao Me
jplay the different positions, but they HOPG | cscnernye ste eat: sarhie hohe aires

ot ; Tecaay | Courtney Ross, and Harry Boucher. George
to make some definite steps in this direc- | : y M4

tion after they see the material in action | Baily WAS also awarded the varsity “D”
Saturday, | for his Services as manager, and Bob Glas-
i |gow got the minor sports “D” for his work

Only about five or six candidates have|as manager of the Freshman quint.
had any previous experience in ‘organized; Of these men, Peabody, Wagner, Dicker-
baseball, so the two “Docs” have been | son, and Boucher are Seniors, and have
spending most of the time thus far teach-| worn the Davidson colors on the court for
ing a few of the fundamentals of the game. the last time. Next year’s squad will be
Richardson, Jenkins and Sanders look like | Balt sround bie Heath Harris) Ross; Latterty,
the beat bets for Freshman hurlers, Alli 1° and, and material from the reserves and

threé did a little mound duty against the) we Otel enue: ;
Varsity last Saturday and look mighty | At the time the Varsity basketball let-
bet | ters were awarded, numerals for the Fresh-
ood. |man team were given as follows: Co-Cap-
“The boys looked very lax in every re-/|tain Sanders and Windham, Dillard, Burns,
spect against the Varsity,” Coach Unger as-| parker, Marchant, Johnson, J., Cumbie,
serted, “but this was probably due to lack | Lewis, Johnson, E. C., Benfield, and Tip-
of experience. On the whole they looked} ton, Dillard led the scorers for the season.
very good, and I am well pleased with their Letters in wrestling were awarded at the
performance.” jsame time. The following received mono-
4 grams: Dillon (115 pounds), Jenkins (125
pounds), Sprunt (135 pounds), Captain-elect
Charlie Forte (145 pounds), Quarterman
(155 pounds), Potter (165 pounds), Captain
Taylor (175 pounds), and Whitfield (un-
limited).
The team finished a most successful sea-

| for their first game Saturday afternoon |

iwith Cornelius High Schooi on the latter’s
| diamond.

| Sixteen uniforms have been issued al-
ready, and more will be given out when the
coaches get a little better line on their men.
Those who now have uniforms are: Burns,
| Haake, Lofton, McFadyen, Moore, Parker,
and Brown in the infield; Cumbie, Loukel,
Partridge, Sours, Senter, and Walker, of

What Coach Heath Whittle considers
the best Freshman track team that Da-
vidson has ever been able to put on the |
field, will oppose Charlotte High  Fri-
day. With Evans in the sprints, Frazier
and Merchant in the mile run, and Pitt-
man, Lee and Dolan in the pole vault
leading the way, the yearlings have
more than an even chance to defeat the
strong Charlotte team.

Saturday, the Varsity should be able to,
hand Furman’s track team a licking. Cap-|
tain Fleagle should give the Wildcats a)
lead in the sprints, and Cochran wouldn’t |
surprise us a bit if he added the full num- |
ber of points to the Davidson cause in)
both the shot put and discus throw. As in|
past years, Davidson is again well taken |
care of in the hurdles, and Pratt, McCallie, |
Little and McPhail should blank the. visit-
ors in the two obstacle races.

Points should be added{by Bill Flinn,
record holder in the pole vault, in that
event and in the broad jump. Two new-
comers, Armstead and Wingfield,
showed up well in the broad jump trials

last Friday and may cause the Fur-
man jumpers to cover the ground to
place ahead of them this Saturday.
Armstead, a Junior out for the first
time, and Wingfield, who performed for
the Freshman team last year, can both
leap more than twenty feet.

A lack of pitchers has’ been the chief
problem confronting Davidson’s baseball |

|
coaches in past years, but from the show- |

ing of the twirlers in the first Varsity- |
Freshman scrimmage last Saturday, that}
problem appears solved for the present et
least. Charlie. Pearce, Charlie Harris, and |
George Baily showed up well in their first |
assignment and relieved Coach Laird of |
any worry he may have had about that |
position. Bob Richardson, Hack Sanders, and |
Jack Jenkins, by their showing against the |
Varsity, left the impression that their pitch- |
ing should carry the yearling team to a
successful season.

My Greatest Thrill

AS TOLD BY BUDDY GARDNER,
Captain of 1932 Football Team

There are very few occasions on which
a lineman in a football game has an oppor-
tunity to feel that he has experienced “his
greatest thrill.” It is usually just a lot of
rough stuff for him and such a thing as
experiencing a thrill through his own per-
sonal endeavors is usually something out
of the ordinary. {fice

But if I must tell of, my greatest thrill,
I believe that I had it in’the Carolina-Da-
vidson game this year. With the possible

(Continued on page 6)

who starred with the Freshman team last

the outfield hopes; Jenkins, Richardson, and

(Continued on page 6) Sanders, of the pitching staff.

SPRING SPORTS CALENDAR

MARCH:

24—Track—Charlotte Hi vs. Freshmen, here.
24—-Golf—Richmond vs. Varsity, at Charlotte.
25—Track—Furman vs. Varsity, here.
29—Golf—Washington and Lee vs. Varsity, at Charlotte.
30—Baseball—Catawba vs. Varsity, here.
31—Baseball—Balls Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, here.

APRIL:

1—Track—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, here.

1—Track—V. P. I. Freshmen vs. Freshmen, here.
4—Track—Duke vs. Varsity, here.

5—Baseball—Lenoir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, here.

5—Baseball—M. P. C. I. vs. Freshmen, at Mount Pleasant.
6—Tennis—Emory vs. Varsity, at Emory, Ga.
7—Tennis—Furman vs. Varsity, at Greenville, S. C.
7—Track—Winston-Salem Hi vs. Freshmen, here.
8—Baseball—Union Seminary vs. Varsity, here.
8—Tennis—South Carolina vs. Varsity, at Columbia, S. C.
10—Baseball—Catawba vs. Varsity, at Salisbury.
12—Baseball—Elon vs. Varsity, here.

12—Golf—Furman vs. Varsity, at Charlotte” ~~
15—Track—Florida vs. Varsity, at Gainesville, Fla.
15—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Winston-Salem (pending).
17—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Concord.

17, 18, 19—Tennis—Varsity in State Tournament, at Chapel Hill.
18—Baseball—Elon vs. Varsity, at Burlington.
20—Tennis—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.
21—Baseball—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, here.
21—Baseball—Belmont Abbey vs. Freshmen, here (pending).
22—Track—Charlotte Hi vs. Freshmen, at Charlotte.
22—Tennis—U. S. Naval Academy vs. Varsity, at Annapolis, Md.
24—Golf—Richmond ys. Varsity, at Richmond, Va.
24—Tennis—Richmond vs. Varsity, at Richmond, Va. (pending).
24—-Baseball—Balls Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, at Balls Creek.
25—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.
25—Tennis—William and Mary vs. Varsity, at Williamsburg, Va.
26—-Baseball-—N. C. State vs. Varsity, at Raleigh.
26—Golf—Washington and Lee vs. Varsity, at Lexington, Va.
27—Golf—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Greensboro.
28—Baseball—Belmont Abbey vs. Freshmen, at Belmont (pending).
28—Golf—Duke vs. Varsity, at Greensboro.

29—Track—South Carolina vs. Varsity, at Columbia, S. C.
29—Track—Presbyterian College Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Clinton, S. C.

MAY:
2—Baseball—Lenoir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, at Hickory (pending).
3—Baseball—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Blacksburg, Va. (pending).
4—Baseball—v. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Blacksburg, Va. (pending).
4—-Baseball—Wake Forest Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Wake Forest.
5—Baseball—North Carolina Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Chapel Hill.
6—Baseball—George Washington vs. Varsity, at Washington, D. C. (pending).
6—Baseball—N. C. State Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Raleigh.
6—Track—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, herc.
6—Track—Wake Forest Freshmen vs. Freshmen, here.
8—Golf—Emory vs. Varsity, at Atlanta, Ga.
9—Golf—Georgia Tech vs. Varsity, at Atlanta, Ga.

10—Golf—Fitirman vs. Varsity, at Greenville, S. C.
10—Baseball—Duke vs. Varsity, at Durham.
10—Baseball—M. P. C. I. vs. Freshmen, here.
11—Baseball—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, at Wake Forest.
13—Track—Varsity and Freshmen in State Meet, at Durham.
15—Baseball—N. C. State vs. Varsity, here.
17—Baseball—Duke vs. Varsity, here.

Ne

son, winning over V. P. I. and Duke, drop-
ping matches to Franklin and Marshall, and
Washington and Lee, and tying the final
match with North Carolina. This placed Da-
vidson second in the Big Five standings,
with N. C. State finishing first.

Freshmen Cindermen
To Have Meet Friday

As was shown in a meet among them-
selves last Friday, the Freshman track men
are in good condition to beat Central High
of Charlotte next Friday.

Central High has a good team this year,
and although the Charlotte boys recently
defeated a team composed of alumni, their
chief threats seem to be in the sprints and
broad jump. Ras Evans, of Davidson, who
recently set a record at the Carolina Indoor
Meet should aptly cover the former. Pitt-
man, John Lee, and Stevens will be jump-
ing for the Wildkittens.

The Charlotte miler ran a 4:50 last week,
but both Frazier and Merchant of David-
son will put up a good fight. Young will
also be running for Davidson. There is a
possibility that Evans, Freshman record-
holder, will not run, due to an ankle injury
received in the Carolina meet. Faison and
Yarborough will run the sprints. Cathey
and Parker will run the high hurdles, while
Pittman and Parker will take care of the
lows.

The Kittens are strong in the half-mile
event, being represented by Cathran, Shu-
ford, and Glass. Fraley and Frazier should
both show up well in the 440-yard dash.

John Lee, who has reached 5 feet, 7 inches
this year, will lead the high jumpers. H.
Wells and Tipton have also been looking

-

| good in the broad jump.
| Pittman, Dolan and Lee all showed up
| well in the pole vault. Pittman has cleared
pir feet this year and the other two have
|each cleared at least 10% feet.
In the discus event will be Sears, H.
Wells, and Tipton. Johnson, John Lee, and
Blackwelder will throw the javelin. Tipton,
H. Wells, and Windham -will put the shot.

Golf Team Selected
. At Charlotte Club

Three lettermen, Captain T. P. Caldwell,
Jack Wagner, and Mac Manson, the remain-
ing members of last year’s golf team, re-
tained the right to represent Davidson on
the links again this spring, when they
turned in low scores in the finals play at
the Charlotte Country Club course last Fri-
day.

Johnny Thompson, who was a member
of the Varsity golf team in his Freshman
year, but who failed to make the team the
last two years, was the newcomer on the
four-man team.

Jack Wagner, who was captain of the
1932 team, turned in the lowest score in
the medal play, making the course in 74
and 77 for a total of 151. Captain Caldwell
turned in a card of 81-84 for 165 on the
course. John Thompson with 85-85—170,
and Mac Manson with 87-85—172, were next
in order.

Bob Gregory and Tom Bowles, the other
finalists, were close behind the qualifiers
with 86-88—174, and 89-87—176, respect-
ively. All the finalists are members of the
Senior class and will graduate this year.

The team opens its ten-game schedule at
Charlotte Friday, when the University of
Richmond will be met.

COMMENCEMENT

and Then

GRADUATION

a SENIOR’S desire is to
have a lasting remembrance
of college life. These are
brought about by college ties,

formalities and

Commencement
Invitations

See E. O. Guerrant
A. M. Manson

a
oO

By Shirtcraft

Check Shirts ana
CTies to Match

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

$1.95

