THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933

JUNIOR COLLEGE
TOURNAMENT HERE
TOMORROW AND FRIDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

INTRA-MURAL
BASKETBALL NOW
IN PROGRESS

|

+

Tomorrow and Friday Davidson stu-
dents will be given an opportunity to see
some of the. most promising college bas-
ketball players in the state perform,
when teams representing Belmont Ab-
bey, Presbyterian Junior, Weaver, Ruth-
erford, Boiling Springs, Wingate Junior,
Lees-McRae, and Mars Hill gather here
to determine a champion.

Davidson, under the efforts of Captain N.
G. Pritchett, director of athletics, is holding
the junior college elimination tournament
here at great expense to the college, and
therefore may be forced to make a small
admission charge to Davidson students in
order to help defray some,of the money bur-
den. Since the tournament is not a money-
making proposition, Davidson students
should not try to crash the gate to see the
games.

Many of the players who will perform
for the junior schools will be college
boys next year, eligible for two years of
inter-collegiate competition, Whether any
of these athletes matriculate at David-
son will depend largely upon the recep-
tion Davidson students show them. A
friendly word to any of our visitors seen
upon the campus the next two days may
impress the Davidson spirit and influence
him to come to Davidson. The social
fraternities can also play the part of a
host to these visiting athletes, who may
make good fraternity material.

Arrangements for the tournament have
be completed, and a trophy, which will
be teesitsd the winner, has been bought
by the college. Officials of the games will
include Touhey of Colorado University, who
has worked several varsity and freshman
games this winter; Wide Ison of North Car-
olina University, who is sports editor of the
Charlotte News, and Doc Mathis, 1932 Da-
vidson graduate, who is now coaching fresh-
man athletics here.

Intramural basketball started this
week at Davidson, nearly two months
later than the class games had been
played in past years. The class of ’34
were winners of the series last season.

Boxing in its first appearance at Davidson
in many moons proved popular with the stu-
dents, as evidenced by the large turnouts to
see the bouts. The brilliant defensive work
of Billy Moore, the speed and fast punch-
ing of flashy Johnny Dolan, and the hard
punching of Bill Flinn and Joe Morris left
impressions upon those who saw the bouts
as well as their opponents. Barnes and Moore
in their bout had the crowd in uproar, and
even drew laughs from the judges.

Coach “Doc” Unger’s wrestling team,
composed mostly of Sophomores, has
shown steady progress all winter. The
19-13 vcitory the grapplers gained over
V. P. I. last Saturday was the first a
Davidson mat team has scored over a
Virginia Tech team. This Saturday the
Wildcat team meets North Carolina at
Chapel Hill. A victory over the Tar
Heels—will-place-the- Davidson team in

24 the first time in many years. The Wildcat

Davidson Wrestlers Defeat

Strong Virginia Tech Team

by Davidson in Many Years

Davidson's wrestlink team covered itself:
with a blaze of glory here last Saturday ;
night by defeating a V. P. I. mat team for

grapplers took five of the eight matches to
score a 19-13 victory over the Virginians.

The victory was the second consecutive
one scored by the Davidson team this sea-
son, and made it two victories against two
defeats, which were administered by a strong
Pranklin-Marshall team, and an undefeated
Washington and Lee team. The Davidson
schedule will end this Saturday when the
Wildcats meet North Carolina University.

Davidson followers were confident of a
victory when Quarterman, 155-pounder, and
Potter, 165-pounder, scored victories over
their visiting opponents, but when Captain
Taylor, of Davidson, was defeated by Wal-
dron, fears were aroused. Whitfield sup-
pressed the fears, however, when he p‘nned
Howard of V. P. I. in six minutes and 59
seconds, after the latter had stored up a time
advantage.

Dillon, wrestling in the 118-pound weight
for Davidson, pulled the surprise of the eve- |
ning when he gained a time advantage over |
Leske, in a match which fans thought ao
vidson had no chance of taking befcre it

started, Sprunt, in the 135-pound division, |

and Griffith, in the 145, made their first ap-| terms, but the Tar Heels gradually pulled |
pearance on the Davidson team. Sprunt won| away from the ’Cats to go on to win, Pea- |

his match by a time advantage of more than |
two minutes, but Griffith lost by a fall to|
Allison, who was captain
team. H

An injured shoulder kept Charles Forte
from representing Davidson in the 145-pound
weight. His place was taken by Tom Grif-
fith.

Four of the matches resulted in falls. Two |
were registered by Davidson when Quarter- |
man and Whitfield pinned their opponents, |
and two by V. P. I) when Gibbs and Allison ,
scored falls over Jenkins and Griffith, re-
spectively.

Before the matches Coach Unger, aided
by Frank Owen, member of the Davidson

| Victory Is First Scored Over V. P. 1. Davidson Fivé Defeats

Elon Christians, 38-18

But Drop Contests to State and North
Carolina Teams

In the past week’s basketball program Da-
vidson dropped two contests and bagged one.
On Tuesday night the Wildcats met Elon
College, and took the Christians into camp
by an impressive 38 to 16 score, Then fol-
lowed a two-day trip down to Raleigh and
Chapel Hill. In the first contest a vastly im-
proved Davidson quintet bowed to the ex-
perienced Tar Heel, basketeers of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, 39 to 26, Earlier
in the season Carolina had bumped the 'Cats
56 to 18. In the last imbroglio of the tour
N. C. State’s highly-touted Red Terrors top-
pled the Wildcats 35 to 23. This was also a
second victory over Davidson for State this
season.

Davidson played a more consistent brand
of ball than the Christians from Elon Col-
lege, and completely routed them, 38 to 16.
Peabody, Dickerson, and Harris all played
consistently good games that snowed the
Elon quint under.

North Carolina, led by Hines and Weath-
ers, With twelve and ten points, respectively,
ran wild to decisively defeat the Davidson
five, 39 to 26, At the beginning of the game
Davidson and Garolina played on fairly even

body looked good for Davidson.
The tour ended with an impressive 35 to

of the visiting | 23 defeat at the hands of N. C. State. Led |

by Nelms, State showed a superior brand
of basketball to turn back the scrappy Wild-
cats. Peabody and Dickerson stood out for
Davidson.

Freshmen Lose Final
Contests of Season

After winning the first contest of their
closing campaign over the Caldwell Memo-
‘rial five, the Davidson Freshman basketball
‘team brought their season to a close in a

Pikas Win in Fraternity
Basketball Tournament

Led-by-the-intrepid—Buck—Mills, the boys
from the Pi Kappa Alpha house turned back
the Kappa Sigma five toe*Win the Davidson
inter-fraternity basketball championship in
the local gym last Monday night by the
impressive score of 36 to 16. A 55 to 3 victory
over the Pi Kappa Phi quint, and a 25 to 17
win over the Beta Theta Pi boys pleced the
Pikas in the finals, while the Kappa Sigs
attained the final bracket by virtue of a
victory over the Phi Gamma Deltas and the
Kappa Alphas.

The Pikas started off with a rush, and
the outcome of the game was never in doubt,
the winners holding a 13 to 4 lead at the
intermission,

Rives shot seven points to be high for the
Kappa Sigs.

Pi K. A, (36) Position Kappa Sig (16)
Hamrick (5) MOF, Rose
Kirkland (4) F, (1) Pearce
Mills (16) Cc. (6) Fleagle
Little, A. (5) G. (2) Byerly
Little, C. (6) G. (7) Rives
Referee: Lafferty. Umpire: West.

Dillard Leads Frosh |
In Individual Scoring

Herman Dillard, forward, finished first in
individual scoring among members of the
Freshman basketball team for the 1933 sea-
son which was brought to a close last week.

wrestling squad, demonstrated various holds | disastrous fashion, losing by landslide ma-

a tie with N. C. State for the state

and how to break them.

The summary:

118-pound ‘class—Dillon (Davidson) won
over Leske, by time advantage of one min- |
ute and 46 seconds, |

125-pound class—Gibbs (V. P. I.) won by |
fall over Jenkins in three minutes and 14 |
seconds. |

jorities to the Carolina and State Fresh on
consecutive nights.
Caldwell Memorial 25; Davidson Fresh 29
Led by Parker and Burns, the Wildkittens

| outsteadied the Caldwell Memorial quint to

win, 29 to 25, in an exciting contest. Venable
with six points showed up best for the Char-
lotte team, but Parker and Burns of the

135-pound class—Sprunt (Davidson) won | ‘Kittens were high for the game with nine
over Whitmer, by time advantage of two|#"d eight points, respectively.

minutes and three seconds. ~ |
145-pound class—Captain Allison (V. P. I.) |

won by fall over Griffith in four minutes}

and 17 seconds.

N. C, Fresh 53; Davidson Fresh 16
The North Carolina yearling quintet let
loose a barrage of shots on the basket that

completely snowed under the Davidson

eeairain ; ; f
se ; Hitdkittens, ¢ apbieal £ -side A 4eyat
155-pound class—Quarterman (Davidson) | Wildkittens, and gained a one-sided victory

won by fall over Fisher/in eight minutes and |
eight seconds. |
165-pound class—Potter (Davidson) won |

The Red Terrors have
won over Carolina and Duke, while Da-
vidson holds a victory over Duke in
matches this season.

championship.

Should Davidson win the Carolina match,
and there is every reason to believe she will, |
there is a possibility that a challenge for the |
championship will be issued against N. C. |
State. Rumor had it that wrestling would |
most likely be discontinued at Davidson next |
year, but because of the excellent showing |
of the team, which is composed mostly of |
Sophomores, this year, indications are that |
both wrestling and boxing will be carried |
on the winter sports program next year. |

South Carolina University should win the |
Southern Conference basketball champion- |
ship at the tournament which opens at Ra- |
leigh tomorrow. Duke should be the Game-}
cocks’ opponent in the finals. |

FOR THE BEST HAIRCUT IN TOWN | |
GO TO NORTON’S

This Ad and fifteen cents will give you a haircut
if presented on or before Saturday, February 25

!-NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

;the scorers with

at 53 to 16. Rankin of the Tar Babies led
14 points to his credit.
Burns, with six, was high for Davidson.
N. C, State Fresh 49; Davidson Fresh 12
linishing a niost unsuccessful campaign by
bowing to the Wolflet quint of N. C. State,
the Davidson Freshmen finished a fairly good
in anything but impressive style.
State’s yearlings ran wild.to put the ’Kit-
tens down, 49 to 12. Aycock, State forward,
bagged twelve counters to top the scorers.

Duke Blue Devils Win
Big Five Championship

season

Duke University’s Blue Devils won the
Big Five championship with seven victories
and one defeat. The loss was suffered at
the hands of N. C. State, who finished third
in the standings.

North Carolina University was in second
place with six- victories and two defeats,
both administered by the champions.

Here’s how they ‘finished:

Team W. L. Pct.
Dil kemerr on saints Jeon me Gee es el 875
Wp Nig Ofer oie a ne Gime 735
INGiGieStaters se eee 4 4 500
Wiakevlorest: 2ssennne = secs eecace Zee 5 286
WavidsOn i o2ess sen laa eseeee (} 7 .000

over Oliver, by time advantage of five min-
utes and 35 seconds.

175-pound class—Waldron (V. P. I.) won
over Captain Taylor, by time advantage of
one minute and 41 seconds.

Unlimited—Whitfield (Davidson) won by
fall over Howard in six minutes and 59
seconds.

Referee: Jackins (Barium Springs). Timer:
McEver (Tennessee).

Dillard scored 79 points to lead his team-
mates,

Thirty-four field goals and eleven fouls
|gave the leader his total, which was ten
| points more than the runner-up’s total. Dil-
\lard played in fourteen of the fifteen games
jon the Freshman schedule this year, and
lhad a game average of 5.6 points.

Woodrow Burns and Dick Parker were
tied for second place with 69 points each.
Parker scored one field goal more than
Burns, but the latter evened the count with
two free throws more to his credit. Cole
Windham, guard and co-captain, moved into
fourth place ahead» of his partner-leader,
Sanders, when the latter failed to make the
eastern trip last week. Windham’s total was
5060 points.

Although the Freshmen were outscored 448
to 374 points, they won eight of their fif-
teén games for a percentage of .533 for the
season.

The results:

Player FG. FT. TP.
Din Sees aee ee a 34 11 79
Biitismsusacceseete donee eas 15 69
Parketicsusudeaaeeuusn ee etaes 13 69
Windham 14° 56
DANUGHSH cece ae scen ees 8
Marchant 6 20
Johnson, J.-2==ss2s2+------- a6 3 15
GumbiGt see eee 2 1 5
NSC WAS Sess wes eee ee eee 1 2 4
Wool iaygorny; 10, (Ce 1 1 3
SENN Glew a heen eee 1 0 2
RINtOn esas soe eS 1 0 2

otal s eee eas 150 74 374

Track Season Opens
While Boxing Closes

Now that boxing has come to a close with
the inter-class tournament, Captain Norton
G. Pritchett is devoting all his time and at-
tention to track and especially those men
who will participate in the indoor -meet at
Carolina. Most of the track men have been

working out, but track will formally open
this weék and more rigid training will begin.

Four Davidson College varsity performers
and two from the freshman team probably
will participate in the Southern Conference
indoor track and field games at Chapel Hill
March 4th, it was learned from Captain
Pritchett Monday.

Fred Fleagle, who has run the century in
less than ten.seconds, will enter the 60-yard
sprint. Three high hurdlers, McCallie, Pratt
and McPhail, will be the other Wildcat var-
sity men participating.

Merchant, frosh miler, will run the three-
quarter event and Evans the 60-yard yearl-
ing dash,

Freshman Class Wins

| Three Bouts to Place

Buck Mills, with 16 points, led the scorers, |

| In Intra-Mural Boxing

Seniors and Sophomores Each Win
Two Bouts to Follow Yearlings

The Freshman class won the intramural
boxing tournament when titles in three of
the. seven weights were taken by its repre-
sentatives, here last Thursday and Friday.
The other four titles were divided among
the Seniors and the Sophomores.

Johnny Dolan, Billy Moore, and Earle Fra-
zier were the Freshmen who managed to
win to put their class in the lead. P. B.
Beachum and Charlie Moore won titles for
the Senior class, and two Morris boys, Hu-
bert and Joe, were the Sophomore winners.

Captain Pritchett, director of athletics,
was pleased with the outcome of the bouts,
and felt that there was plenty of boxing.
talent in some of those who took part in the
tournament. He stated that he was especially
impressed by the showing of Dolan, Glasgow,
B. Moore, Frazier, Flinn, Lee, and Joe Mor--
ris.

The Dolan-Glasgow, Morris-Gee, Lee-
Beechum, and Flinn-Frazier bouts were the
most colorful, while the Moore-Barnes hook-
up proved the most amusing to the fans.
All the bouts were decided by decisions.

Captain Seifert, regular Army instructor,
refereed all the bouts in. excellent style. An
atikle injury, received early in the final bouts,
failed to remove him from the ring as the
third mah.

Coaches Unger, Newton and McEver were
judges in the preliminary bouts, but Wade
Ison, Charlotte News sports editor, replaced
Unger in the finals. ;

Flash Ormand was the only man to make
the 115-pound weight, but he moved into
the 125 class to reduce the weight divisions
te seven. The competition was too heavy
and Ormand found himself without a title.

The results:

Preliminaries: 135—D. Glasgow outpoint-
ed Hassel. 155—E, Slaughter outpointed Al-
'derman,

Semi-finals: 125—H. Morris (So) outpoint-
ed Fugate. Gee (So) outpointed Ormand.

135—Dolan (F) outpointed Thompson. D.
Glasgow (So) outpointed Pennington.

155—Frazier (F) outpointed Moffett. Flinn
(S) outpointed E. Slaughter.

165—Lee (F) outpointed Blackwelder.

Finals: 125—H. Morris (So) outpointed
Gee (So) after extra period.

135—Dolan (F) outpointed D.
(So). :

145—B. Moore (F) outpointed Barnes (So).

155—Frazier (F) outpointed Flinn (S).

165—Beachum (S) outpointed Lee (F).

175—C. Moore (S) outpointed Smith (So).

Unlimted—J. Morris (So) outpointed
Johnston (F).

Referee: Captain, Seifert (U. S. Army).

Glasgow

- “(Continued on page 6)

a
&.

SPECIAL SHOWING of
Spring and
Summer Shoes Feb. 24th

By Mr. Geo. Kee, Factory Representative
e at e

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

FRIDAY

