6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933
es ; 3 baa ; ‘ Por eee 101 030 410-10 6 3
Carl Pritchett Leads Wildcats Hit Spree otha lca “4 2 1 1 1Louisburg Team Wins iircshmen -000 04 010-6 9 10
eae Vesper Service To Defeat Catawba Gailid, af eels cee ae Pe | Over Freshman Nine Reives si gale Mann, Sanders and
SEER “ PREC : Gesared). 6 ucoessiocs cus ee ey eee ae | Parker, Moore.
Former “Y” Secretary Speaks to Stu-| The Wildcat nine, with Charlie Pearce|Lippincott, cf _-------.--- §. 0 0 1 0) Fie Gt k satiue: civiliés-
° itchi f : g College took advantage of ten} We do not as yet know w iliza
dents on Subject of ont of ene Caiatta onan SH aly Wee DS Mehelahagd tebe ; 4 ' 5 i bases on balls and a like number of errors| tion has not been entirely destroyed by that
Christianity the score of 12 to 7, Morgan Seitenk and ee Pci anche 4-6 6 § and made six hits bring in ten runs to de- war, but it does not matter, because one of
err . , , SIT tegatanubalbalbweaune Ks 1 ; d ;
“Jesus teaches us that it costs to be a| Peabody were the Davidson stars, while| Beaty, rf _..__....--_-_-- 1 0 0 0 o|f¢at the Davidson : freshmen, re the local} the things that wile a A ee eal ying eet
Christian,” said Carl Pritchett in a most il-] Robinson stood out for Catawba. diamond Monday, by a 10 to BEOES: there was very little civiliz —
luminating talk given at the Y. M. C. A.| The game was close from the beginning Tothis oo ee 38 7 i 27°12 haa pitched ie on Or Ane eat George Bernard Shaw.
rvice last Sunday night. Carljand not until the eighth inning did the : allowing nine scattered hits and striking o : oe fia tin:
Rie wai ‘he secretary of the “Y” here} Wildcats cinch the game, when they went = ; seven, Wildness on his part in the fifth in- Boredom 5 eee a clot on the im
last year and is now attending the Union|on a hitting spree and scored six runs. Charlotte High Nine _ | ning: cost him four runs. agination.—Gera 5
Theological Seminary in Richmond. This} Catawba’s big inning came in the fourth Defeats Wildkittens
year he was a member of the annual depu-|frame when the Indians, led by the hitting -
tation from the Seminary, to Davidson.| of Robinson, scored four runs to tie the Phe: Charlotte High School: dinmand outs ‘(PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE
While at Davidson as a student, Pritchett} score. Davidson came back in the next in- ; :
e 5 ; fit slugged timely and heftily to rout Doc
captain of the basketball team and|ning to score%one tally and then held the ; ara ;
MARC rm lead tar’ the feat of ihe caine Unger’s Wildkittens, 17 to 9, last Friday at ollege
OTL of the bbapeatttr Ae spilt RR s g 5 Robbie’s Field, Charlotte. P
e service was open 1e ox score: /
prelude by Edward McNair, after which] Davidson Ab RHO A! The Charlotteans slugged the apple se rinting
John Howard led in prayer. After the sing-| Bumgarner, 2b ------------ 4 2 1.1. 2/to touch the offerings of Richardson for 13 Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins,
ing of a few hymns, and the reading re-| Peabody, 1b 41210 0 base blows, which led to 17 runs. The ’Kit- Handbooks, Etc. En praved Cards and Invitations. ‘i
yas. . UE RES ae TAI ill i Nothing too large or small for our plant—
sponsively of Psalm’ 103, Sam Wiley read} Mackorell, 3b ------------ 4 2 8 2.-13/*enSs Shelled Josephs from the hill in is Aaj os SiLikiOn. SEERERRNTATVE
the scripture lesson, John 15:9-27. Follow- IMOfpany tf cuccecesccueuuns Aya) Hees feel ee (1) first inning, and amassed a total of ten hits A. M. MANSON, ’ fe
ing this a special violin selection was ren- Mills, 88) sdsaneeddeaaadesad 5 1 2 Ze 1 during the contest, { 6,600 Square, Feet of eh Laid Devoted to Printing,
dered by Gordon Green, after which Wiley Morrison, cf. --.-------.--- 4 1 1. 1 1| Burns, with four bingles out of five trips
introduced the speaker. J. G. Morrison, If _.-..__-. 5 2 2 0 Ojto the platter, led the hitters of both teams.
Carl Pritchett began his talk by saying] Whitley, c --------_---___- 4 1 2 11 41)Brady, Charlotte left fielder, took three out Always Best
that although he was not going to speak} Pearce, p __--------------- 5 1.2 0 6/of five to lead his team’s hitting. INTING CO.CHARLOTTE, N. C.
on any particular subject, he was going to Charlotte High ----242 201 42x—17 14 2 STANDARD PRIN
say three things to the students for their WOtGl§: eusvetseesoneuse 40 12 17 40 12|Davidson Fresh _---320 030 100—9 1010
consideration and thought. Catawba Ab R H O A| Batteries: Josephs, King and Beam; Rich-
First, Pritchett said that Christianity is) Pearson, 1b -_--------_____ 5 1 1 14 Ol/ardson, Jenkins and Senter, Moore.
Jesus Christ. Some people find it rather

hard to believe wholly in the Bible, but
Christianity is not a book; it is a real, liv-
ing, and live person. Many people today feel
a resentment towards Jesus Christ and the
church. They look at one person and say,
“Well, if he is a Christian, then I haven't
the slightest desire to be a Christian.” The
point here is that we must not worship
God through Christians, but we must real-
ize that with Christ as a fortress our posi-
tion is unassailable.

The second point that Mr. Pritchett
stressed was that Jesus Christ lives in the
hearts of Christians. Here the speaker
quoted Dr. Fosdick, eminent minister, say-
ing, “You will not find God at the end of
an argument, but instead you will find Him
in the human heart.” God, who is all-pow-
erful, all-knowing, and atlf-compassionate,
dwells in the human heart. We are always
speaking of the cost of that thing, and the
cost of this thing, but we seldom stop to
ask the cost of the forgiveness of sin. This
brought the speaker to his final point.

“We are not willing to pay the price!”
We always want to make reservations.
Many of us are like the rich young ruler,
perfectly willing to work for God, but un-
willing to give up our worldly pleasures for
Him. The reason that that young ruler be-
came a Christian was that he had a tragic
need in his soul and God met that tragic
need with a tragic demand. Jesus teaches
us that it costs to be a Christian. Think
how much His disciples had to pay. “The
foxes have their holes, the birds their nests,
but the Son of Man has naught to lay his
head.” The glorious truth is that Christian
life is a life of constant growth away from
sin’ Some men’s lives are ruined by a spirit
of enmity—some are not willing to pay the
price of the life’s work—all is only a small
part of the price that you have to pay for
the reality of Jesus Christ, but it is worth it.

FRESHMAN TRACK TEAM COPS
HONORS IN TRIANGULAR MEET

(Continued from page 1)
(Charlotte) fourth. Height: 10 feet, 8 inches.
220-yard low hurdles: Byrd (Winston)
first; Isenhour (Charlotte) second; Pittman
(Davidson) third; Morris (Winston) fourth.
Time: 268.

880-yard run: Evans (Charlotte) first;
Berthold (Winston) second; Shuford (Da-
vidson) third; Duggins (Winston) fourth.
Time: 2:9.

Discus throw: Copeland (Charlotte) first;].
C. Helms (Charlotte) second; H. Wells (Da-
vidson) third; E. Helms (Charlotte) fourth.
Distance: 109 feet, 1134 inches.

High jump: Lee (Davidson) and Pike
(Winston) tied for first; McCachren (Char-
lotte) and Fenter (Charlotte) tied for third.
Height: 5 feet, 714 inchegs

Javelin throw: Pearce (Davidson) first;
Gill (Charlotte) second; Holder (Charlotte)
third; Pickard (Charlotte) fourth. Distance:
149 feet, 11 inches.

Broad jump: Pickard (Charlotte) first;
Holder (Charlotte) second; McClintock
(Charlotte) third; Hassell (Davidson) fourth.
Distance’ 21 feet 4% inches.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HOLDS INITIATION

(Continued from page 1)
ed to table the proposition until the next
meeting, so that a decision could be made.

At the close of the business meeting, a de-
licious feed-was served. The meeting closed
with the welcome extended to the new mem-
bers by the old.

Cnty

66

tsbacci?

Well... here it is... already
whittled FOR you. Granger
Rough Cut is tobacco whit-
tled right . . . that’s one

reason why it burns so slow

and cool.

HEN we started to make Granger
Rough Cut we knew that fine tobac-
co burnt hot because it burnt so fast. It
kept your pipe hot. You could hardly
hold your pipe in your hand, it got so

hot at times.

Then we remembered that some folks
back yonder used to “whittle” their to-
bacco. So we made GRANGER just like
“whittle” tobacco — “Rough Cut.” It
smokes cooler and lasts a lot longer. And
also, you'll find it never gums the pipe.

So far, so good. Now we wanted to sell
this tobacco for 10c. Good tobacco—right
process—cut right. It was a question of

how to do it for the price.

So we put GRANGER in a sensible soft
foil pouch instead of an expensive package,
knowing that a man can’t smoke a package.
We gave smokers this good GRANGER
tobacco in a common-sense pouch for 10c.

GRANGER has not been on sale very
long, but it has grown to be a popular
smoke. And there is this much about it
—we have yet to know of a man who
started to smoke it, who didn’t keep on.

Folks seem to like it.

hggett allyas bacco

99

© 1933
UGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO.

CO

The Granger pouch
keeps the tobacco fresh

TEN CENTS
