THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MAY 10, 1933

Hes

| Social Fraternities

S. A. E’s CELEBRATE
50TH ANNIVERSARY:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon celebrated: the 50th
anniversary of the founding of the local
Theta chapter. The celebration was in the
form of a dinner-dance given at the Char-
lotte Country Club on May 6. A short talk
was given by Dr. J. W. MacConnell on Sig-
ma Alpha Epsilon in general and the gold-
en anniversary,

Dr. J. M. Douglas was the only member
present who was in Davidson at the time
of the founding. He was a freshman at
that time. There were about seventy-five
in attendance, including members of the lo-
cal chapter, their girls, alumni and_ their
wives, and several guests from nearby chap-
ters. A color scheme of purple and gold
was carried out. Charlie Myers, toastmas-
ter, made the address of welcome to the
guests. 7

The following guests were present: Pro-
fessor and Mrs, E. J. Erwin, Dr. and Mrs.
Archie Currie, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacCon-
nell;-of ‘Davidson; Mr. W. R. Cely, Mr. H.
T. Mills, John Powell, Bill Thaxton, Reedy
Rivers, and Miss Eleanor Cely, of Green-
ville, S. C.; Mr. W. T. Covington, Mr. Nat
Speir, Dr. and Mrs. A. G. Brenizer, Mr. and
Mrs. H. W. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Sam
Smith, Major and Mrs. James, Martin Craw-
ford, Dr. and Mrs. Elias Faison, Mr. Charles
Tillett, Misses’ Cortlandt Preston, Janet
Mather, Peggy Foreman, Sophie Stephens,
Elizabeth Johrison, Vera Oates, of Charlotte ;
Dr. Scott Lyon, Dr. and Mrs, J. M. Doug-
las, of Davidson; Miss Roberta McKinnon,
of Hartsville, S. C.; Miss Cynthia Barnes,
of Anderson, S. C.; Misses Elizabeth Minus
and Bobbie-Bennett, of Greer, S. C.; Miss
Mary Bess VanLandingham, Scotland Neck,
N. C.; Miss Margaret Crawford, of Rome,
Ga.; Miss Virginia Staples, of Athens, Ga.;
Misses Sara Stephens and Margaret O’Han-
lon, of Winston-Salem; Betty Woodward,
of Quincy, Fla.; Miss Claire Robertson, of
Durham. Music for the occasion was fur-
nished by the club orchestra,

kK. A.’s SPONSOR
RIVER HOUSE PARTY:

Kappa Alpha fraternity sponsored a party
last Saturday at the lodge of Mr. Davidson
on the Catawba River, Boating and swim-
ming were enjoyed in the afternoon and
dancing at night. A sumptuous supper was
served in buffet style. Chaperones were
Miss Sara Jameson and Dr. Tom Sparrow
of Charlotte.

The following guests were present: Misses
Miriam Cannon, Betty Gay Coltrane, Zibba
O'Dell, Ellen White, of Concord; Carolyn
Hammond, Virginia Carey, Betty Hunter,
Amelia Webb, Eleanor Hayes, Catherine
Crowell, Miriam Steele, Maria Drane, Celia
Wadsworth, Mildred Brown, Eleanor Killick,
Grace Lawing, Frances Matheson, Virginia
Pegram, May D. Marion, of Charlotte;
Louise Melchor, Louise Bell, of Mooresville;
Katherine O’Farrell, of Kings Mountain.

At the regular meeting of the chapter on
May 4, Baxter Yarbrough was initiated into
the fraternity.

BETA’S ATTEND
DISTRICT REUNION:

Representatives were sent from the local
chapter of Beta Theta Pi to the district re-
union held at the University of Virginia
last week. This district is composed of
Washington and Lee University, University
of Virginia, University of N. C., and David-
son. The representatives were Rawling
Pratt-Thomas, P. B. Beachum, Latimer Mc-
Clintock, Byron Schriver, and Grainger
Williams.

Plans are being made for the annual senior
house party which is to be given next Sat-
urday at Mr. Davidson’s lodge on the Ca-
tawba River.

KAPPA SIG’S
PLAN DANCE:

Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity
are making plans for a dance to be given
in Mooresville next week-end. Music is to
be furnished by the Davidson orchestra.

MAJOR AND MRS. RHETT
ENTERTAIN PI KAPPA PHI’S:

Major and Mrs. John T. Rhett enter-
tained with a party for the Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity at their home on N. Main Street
last Friday evening. About forty young
people were in attendance. At a late hour
a buffet supper was served. The room was
attractively decorated with roses and
candles. Mrs. G. R. Vowles and Mrs. J. R.
Withers assisted Mrs. Rhett in looking after
the pleasure of her guests. Visiting brothers
from Duke attending the track meet in-
vited were: Brownlee, Fulmer, Reichman,
and Landon.

When a man commences to feel what it
is to be young, he is beginning to grow old.
—Hearn.

Phi and Eu Societies
Choose New Leaders

Next year’s officers of the Philanthropic
Literary Society were elected at the meet-
ing of Tuesday night, May 2. Wilbur Fu-
gate was elected president; Courtney Ross,
vice-president; S. F. Marsh, secretary; W.
C. Neal, treasurer; R. W. Johnston, super-
visor, and C. A. McNeill, critic.

A short program was opened with a re-
lation of current events by John Vass. Hu-
morous selections were rendered by McNeill
and Johnston.

At the meeting of the Eumenean Literary
Society last Tuesday, May 2, the election
of officers was held. The elections were
as follows: President, Hugh Hawkins; vice-
president, Don Bailey; secretary, W. B.
Singleton; treasurer, Edward Hodge; critic,
R. T. Banks.

The election of officers is held three times
each year, except the election of treasurer,
which is held oncé each year. These offi-
cers will be installed before the end of this
school year and will serve the first part of
next year.

Y. M. C. A. RETREAT
Members of the retiring Y. M. C. A. Cab-
inet spent the week-end at Montreat, enjoy-
ing the annual “Y” retreat.

Socialist Group

Rev. Tom Hamilton spoke to the
Socialist group on “Hitlerism or Inter-
nationalism” last Wednesday night. In
his talk he stressed the dangers of na-
tionalism such as exist under the pres-
ent German government, and the
Christian ideal of international co-op-
eration.

Professor Kenneth Foreman will
speak to the Socialist group Wednes-
day night, May 10th.

French Club Chooses
Next Year’s Officers

The Davidson French club, “Le Cercle
Francais,” held a meeting on Wednesday,
May 3, during which officers. were elected
for the coming year. Lanier Pratt was
elected to serve as president.

The other officers elected were as follows:
Robert Coit, vice-president ; George Gullette,
secretary- “treasurer, and Madison Armistead,
steward,

The meeting was featured by a six-reel
moving picture of scenes taken in France,
Germany, and the Scandinavian countries.
A friend of Dr. and Mrs. Watts took the
pictures; his occasional appearance in them
adding personal interest to the films.

Eta Sigma Phi Holds
Convention April 28

Ed McNair Represents Local Chapter
at Conclave in St. Louis, Mo.

|
|
|
|

| Ed McNair attended the national conven-
{tion of Eta Sigma Phi, which was held |
April 28 and 29 with Alpha Xi Chapter at |
Washington University in St. Louis, Mo. |

The convention was primarily made up of

social activities
Dr. Roy C. Fliék-!
head of the classical department of |

business sessions and

terspersed: with lectures.

; |
inger,

the University of Iowa, and editor of the|
day, April 28. The subject of his lecture |
was “The Future of the Classics.”

Qn Friday the Alpha Xi Chapter of Eta}
Sigma Phi presented Mostellaria Ploutus”
in a very pleasing manner.

Dr. Frederick W. Shipley, of the Latin
department of Washington University, de-
livered a lecture at the annual banquet of
Eta Sigma Phi on Saturday night.

Eta Sigma Phi is a national honorary
classical fraternity. It is made up of men
who excel in the study of Latin and Greek.
Ed McNair was last year elected Megas
Epistolographos, or National Corresponding
Secretary, of the fraternity.

Jin amateur theatricals.

MASQUERS TO OFFER
PLAY BY OSCAR WILDE

(Continued from page 1)
typical English governess .who casts eyes
at the Canon Chausable. The group of Eng-
lish types is exceedingly well chosen and
their various personalities coupled with the
sparkling dialogue, rich in Wilde epigrams,
affords an amusing study.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin takes the part of Lady
Bracknell and makes the most. of her rich
role. Miss Orrie Steele is to be seen as Miss
Prism, and her acting again exhibits her
jhistrionic ability. Adele Arbuckle and

in- rs alista Hood imbue their leading roles with

beauty and charm. Miss Arbuckle was for-
merly president of the Dramatic Club at
Agnes Scott and Miss Hood has had wide

Classical Journal, delivered a lecture on Fri- | experie nee in dramatics.

The main male leads are played by Nich-
Moss and Wills Hollingsworth, who
| give sophjticated parts a polish rarely seen
Bill Johnson and
recruits from the Freshman
are cast as dignified English butlers
who intone their lines with the proper grav-
ity.

The mechanics of the play will be effi-
ciently handled by Dave Herring, stage man-
ager; Ed Holt, property manager, and Don
Stewart, electrician. Make-up will be in
charge of John Marvin. The play calls for
three different sets and Professor Erwin has
created an attractive English garden scene
for the second act background.

| oli as

Roger Riley,

class,

wiP lous as We're Settling things

SUPPOSE YOU
TELL ME WHY
YOU SMOKE
GRANGER”

ee

They used to sit down on a log and take
the time to whittle their tobacco from a
plug, to be sure of having a cool smoke.

**In those days, a man named Wellman,
right here in Quincy, IIl., made about the
best tobacco you could get. He knew how
to keep the flavor fine and mellow.

LL, it’s like this. Back in the old

) days, when. men wore high hats and
frock coats, they had plenty of time to
think things out, and they had sense, too.

© 1933
UGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO,

“Well, sir, the people who make this

Granger Rough Cut acquired Mr.
Wellman’s method, and they must have
known how the old boys used to whittle
their tobacco to make it smoke cool. Yes,
sir, this Granger is the real stuff. The
same mellowness’and fine flavor that
Wellman used to hand out to his friends.
And it’s whittled into big shaggy flakes
all ready-for the pipe. ‘Rough Cut’ they
call it—‘cut rough to smoke cool’ is the

best way I can describe it.

**Regardless of price, Granger is about
the best pipe tobacco I ever smoked. That’s
why I smoke it, and that’s why they call
it America’s Pipe Tobacco, sir.”

Now we wanted to sell Granger for 10¢.
It was just a question of how to do it for
the price. So we pack Granger in a sen-

TEN CENTS

\

sible foil pouch instead ‘6f an expensive
package, knowing that a man can’t smoke

the package. We give smokers this good

The Granger pouch
keeps the tobacco fresh

GRANGER tobacco in a common-sense
pouch for 10¢.

GRANGER has not been on sale very
long, but it has grown to be a popular
smoke. And there is this much about it—
we have yet to know of a man who started
to smoke it, who didn’t keep on. Folks

seem to like it.

Liggett ellyerntobacce G.
