EASTER
GREETINGS!

Che

avidso

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

man

EASTER
GREETINGS!

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 12, 1933

No. 26

Williams, Fugate Are Victorious
_An Recent Publications Balloting

Jack Williams Editor of Quips and
Cranks and von Will Head
°

ELECTIONS VERY CLOSE

New Men Will Succeed McCallie and
Pope

Jack Williams, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., was
elected editor-in-chief of the “Quips and
Cranks,” Davidson annual, and William Fu-
gate, of Radford, Va., was elected editor-in-
chief of the “Yowl,” in the publications elec-
tions held last week,

Williams succeeds Bob McCallie as editor
of the annual, and Fugate takes the place
of Reeves Pope as head of the humor maga-
zine.

Lyman Clardy, Lanier Pratt, Alex Schenck,
W. T. Thompson, and Jack—Williams, Jr.,
were the nominees for the editorship of
the year book. All were eliminated on the
first ballot, with the exception of Clardy
and Williams. Williams was elected on the
second ballot on Friday.

The new editor has displayed exceptional
journalistic ability, having -held the offices
of managing editor on the staff of the “Da-
vidsonian” and the “Yowl.” He is a member
of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fra-
ternity, and a former member of the Re-
porters’ Club, to which he was accepted in
his Sophomore year.

He was an assistant editor of the annual,
associate editor of the Wildcat Handbook,
and has assisted in the publicity department
of Davidson College.

William L. Fugate, “Duck” Powell, and
Jack Williams, Jr., were nominated for the
editorship by the staff of the “Yowl.” Wil-
liams withdrew his name, after being elected
editor of the annual.

Fugate has made himself prominent on
the campus with his humor articles which
have appeared in the “Yowl.” He has also
been connected with the “Davidsonian” as
a contributor. Fugate was formerly man-
aging editor of the “Yowl.”

When asked about plans for the forthcom-
ing year, he replied, “We are planning to
have more literary work, short stories and
the like, in the ‘Yow!’ of next year.”

Officers to Be
Installed Soon

The date for the installation of the new
officers of the Student Body and Student
Activities has been set for April 21. This
year it was decided by the students to vary
a little from last~year’s installation service
and so instead of having the ceremony and
then adjourning to the banquet hall for a
supper, supper will be served as regular at
the respective boarding houses and then the
students will meet in the auditorium imme-
diately after the supper hour.

The ceremony will be presided over by
Allen Mebane, president of this year’s senior
class, and after all the officers have been
installed, the president will hand the gavel
over to Fred Smyre, president of the senior
class for 1933-34. Following this ceremony,
it is probable that refreshments will be
served in the banquet hall. At the Friday
night dance of the Bowery, Ball. week-end,
all of the officers, past and present, will
form a figure. :

The following is a list of men who will
be installed: Julian West, president of the
Student Body; W. M. Thompson, president
of the Y. M. C. A.; E. L. Willson, presi-
dent of the Athletic Council; Odi Casali,
editor-in-chief’ of the “Davidsonian”;—Jack
Williams, Jr., editor-in-chief of “Quips' and
Cranks”; W. L. Fugate, editor-in-chief of
the “Yowl”’; Fred Smyre, president of the
Senior Class, and the following members of
the Student Council: Sophomore Class, Har-
vey Glass and Dick Parker; Junior Class,
Gordon L. Brown, Douglas Glasgow, and
Walter Sprunt; Senior Class, Mack Holland,
John Lafferty, A. B. McLean, Andrew Man-
son, and W. T. Thompson; also the follow-
ing class presidents: Robert Richardson,
sophomore . class; Kenneth Weeks, junior
class, and Fred Smyre, senior class.

COL. LITTLE TO INSPECT
LOCAL R. 0. T. C. UNIT

According to plans issued by Major V. T.}

Rhett of the local military unit, the annual
inspection for the Davidson battalion will be
held the 27th and 28th of this month.
James M. Little,
Winston-Salem,

who is now stationed at}
will conduct the inspection
for the U. S. War Department.

The colonel will arrive at Davidson
Thursday and will proceed with the inspec-
tion of classes. Friday morning this inspec-
tion will be continued, while Friday after-

on

noon will be given over to a parade and)

personal inspection. At the same time there
will be physical exercises, and one of the
companies will be called on to establish an
outpost. The military staff of the college
is looking forward hopefully to seeing Da-
vidson measure up to past standards in this |
inspection.

Gypsy Smith Will Lead

Annual Spring Services

Comes Here for Speaking Engagement
Sponsored by Local Y. M. C. A.

Rev. Gipsy Smith, Jr., will hold the annual
spring evangelistic services for three days
beginning Monday, April 24. These serv-
ices are sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., and

are the high spots of the spring program of |

“Y" work,
The “Y” has been very fortunate in se-
curing Rev. Smith, who is probably the

most sought after evangelist in America. It
was necessary to apply for his services a
year in advance on account of the great de-
mand for his inspirational speaking.

Since January Rev. Smith has been hold-
ing services in such prominent cities as Cum-
berland, Md., Memphis, Tenn., Bristol,
Va., and Richmond, Va. He will come to
Davidson from Durham, where he is con-
ducting a two weeks’ series of services. From
here he will go to Petersburg, Va., where
he will be during the month of May.

The series here will consist of two meet-
ings each day, one at chapel in the morn-
ing and the other in the evening. The chapel
period during his three-day visit will be
lengthened to allow him sufficient time. Be-
sides the regular services, there will be an
opportunity for personal interviews, and Rev.
Smith is also expected to meet with sev-

Tenn.-

jerat-of the religious and social organizations

on the campus.

In past years the spring services have been
conducted by several well-known ministers,
among whom are Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr.
Sam Glasgow, Dr. Vandermeulen, Dr, Wil-
liam Anderson, and Dr. Charles Myers.

“Y” Board of Control
Picks 1934. Nominees

At the last meeting of the Y. M. C. A.
Poard of Control, which was held on April

3, seven men, three juniors and four soph-|

omores, were nominated for next -year’s
board. Professor J. C. Bailey was nomi-
nated by the board to succeed Professor
L. B. Schenck, who is automatically retired
this year after three years of service.

James Harris, Bill Johnson, and Alex
Schenck were the nominees from the rising
senior class, while Don Bailey, Hubert Mor-
ris, Ben Rose, and Walter Sprunt were nom-
inated as candidates from the rising junior
class.

The board of 1932-33 is composed of Dr.
Arbuckle, chairman; Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr.
Moffett, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Prof. L. B.
Schenck, Paul Brown and Sam Wiley who
are members ex-officio, and Bill Flinn, Bob
Glasgow, Bob McCallie, Lyman Clardy, and
Lynn Huie, who are student members.

Next year’s board will be made up of Dr.
Arbuckle, Dr. Lingle, Dr. Moffett, Mr. Jack-
son, Professor Bailey, Sam Wiley and the
nominees who are to be elected by a vote
of the student body in the near future.

An item of interest to every student on
the campus is the fact. that Sam Wiley will
continue his excellent work as “Y” secre-
tary during the coming year.

Col. |

|
| Winning Editorial

| Bill Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W.
Va., won the editorial contest recently
conducted by Delta Pi Kappa, journal-
istic fraternity, with the editorial: A
Fish Tale—From the Bottom of the
|| Sea.

Bill, a Freshman, is a member of the
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and
a member of the Reporters’ Club.

The editorial is a clever satire on
church attendance at Davidson College.

Thirteen editorials were submitted
|| by the student body. Other editorials

|| that received notice were those written
|| by Stuart Noblin and Mims Rogers.
H J. E. Lake, W. C. Thompson, and
|| Odi Casali were judges for the con-
|] test.

Richardson is Chosen
Sophomore Class Head

| Wins Over Eight Other Nominees
| After Deadlock in Voting

j
| Robert B. Richardson, of Reidsvilie, was
| elected president_of the rising sophomore
class over Dick Parker in the final vote of
last week.

Addison Brenizer, Lamont Brown, Dick
| Hayworth, Gill Murray, Dick Parker, Bob
Richardson, Hack Sanders, Archie Shuford,
and Coley Windham were the nominees for
the office for the forthcoming year.

The voting between Richardson and Park-

resulted in a deadlock the week before
and this made necessary a new ballot, which
was by Richardson. The deadlock
|which resulted is said to be the first that
lhas ever occurred in the annual class elec-
[tions of the college.

Date Announced For

Bowery Ball Ball Week-End

Reeves Pope end Si Southernaires to
Play for Davidson Dances

er

won

Davidson's annual Bowery Ball is sched-
wed for the first week-end after the spring
holidays. There will be three dances, all
of which will be held in the Hotel Charlotte
ballroom, with Reeves Pope and his South-
ernaires providing the music.

For the formal Friday night dance there
will be a two dollar and a half charge, and
a two dollar charge for the informal Bowery
Ball Saturday night. The Saturday after-
noon dance will be free, as all the expenses
will be met by the local fraternities. Tickets
for both the night dances may be purchased
for only three dollars.

This event has always been one keenly
looked forward to on Davidson's social cal-
endar by the younger society set all over
the state, and this year will certainly be
no exception.

Quadwranglers Club
Elects New Officers

The Quadwranglers Club had election of
officers at its régular meeting last Thursday
night. Professor H. E. Fulcher was elected
president for the coming year.

Other officers elected at the meeting in-
cluded: Captain F. M. Cochran, vice-presi-
dent; Dr. P. H. Gwynn, secretary and treas-
urer. Professors F. L. Blythe and J.-C.
Bailey were chosen to serve on the execu-
tive committee.

Lucas Called Home

H.-W. Lucas left college last Sun-
day morning for his home in Staun-
ton, Va., in response to a telegram
from his father, notifying him that his
mother had died>

Mrs. Lucas died suddenly Saturday
night. It is believed that her death
was caused by heart failure.

Herbert is well liked here on the
campus and the sincerest sympathies
and deepest regrets of the students go

with him in this time of sorrow.

‘nominated for this body, and due to this

Davidson Debating Team Returns
From Successful Northern Trip

ASSISTANTSHIPS TO BE |
FILLED AFTER EASTER

All students who wish to apply for posi-
tions as assistants to professors, as monitors,
or as library workers, should file their ap-
plications in the registrar’s office immedi-
ately, These jobs are limited to the juniors
and seniors next year.

If wishing an assistantship to a professor,
the student must see the professor of whom

he wishes to be the assistant and also file
his application with Mr. F. W. Hengeveld,
secretary of the faculty. If the student

wishes to be a monitor, he should place his

application with Dr. Sentelle and then with/|

the registrar. The men applying for work
in the library should see Miss Shaw; and
also Mr. Hengeveld.

It is necessary that the applications be
in immediately in order that the committee
may decide the men chosen for the posi-
tions as soon as possible. The men will
probably be selected during the spring holi-
days.

Ten Student Councilmen
Chosen by Underclasses

Smyre, Weeks, and Richardson Auto-
matically Become Members of
Council

Mack Holland, A, H. Manson, A. B. Me-|
Lean, John Lafferty, and W. T. Thompson,
of the rising senior class, and “Skip” Brown,
Walter Sprunt, and Duke Glasgow, of the
forthcoming junior class, and Harvey Glass
and Dick Parker of the rising sophomore
class, were elected Student Councilors by
the student) ody for the forthcoming year
in-class elections held last week.

5 = ' en mered|
red Smyre, president of the rising senior |

class; K. D. Weeks, of the forthcoming |
junior class, and’ Bob Richardson, president
of the sophomore class of 1934, are auto-
matically members of this organization, be-
ing the leaders of their respective classes.

Each class had a large number of men

fact it required several days to determine
the men who would be members of the Stu-
dent Council.
' Armistead, Halverstadt, Holland, Johnson,
Lafferty, Manson, Mcl.ean, Reeves, and 1
Thompson were the nominees for the Coun-
cil from the rising senior class. |
men. from the forthcoming junior |
class nominated were “Skip” Brown, Elvery,|
Glasgow, Fred McPhail, Rogers, and Sprunt.!
Addison Brenizer, Brown, Glass, Al Mur- |
ray, Bill Johnson, Dick Parker, Purnell, Tom}
Ross, Mark Senter, and J. B. Windham were
nominated for the Council from the rising
sophomore class.

Those

Four Are Initiated
Into Delta Pi Kappa

At the weekly meeting of Delta Pi Kappa,|
honorary journalistic fraternity, held last
night at the Pi Kappa Phi house, four new
men were initiated. They were: Dr. C. K.
Brown, Prof. Ernest Beaty, Mr. F. L. Jack-
son, and Bill Goodykoontz.

During the meeting the winning editorial
submitted in the recent contest sponsored
by Delta Pi Kappa was read. A short talk
was given by Odi Casali, recently elected
editor of the “Davidsonian,” stating the poli-
cies of the school paper during the coming
year.

John Lake, president of the organization,
announced that the fraternity had definitely
decided against going national. Some talk
has been current recently that Delta Pi
Kappa would petition Delta Pi Epsilon, na-
tional journalistic fraternity, for member-
ship. The local organization has voted
against such a move at present.

The initiation, which was presided over
by John Lake, was closed after refreshments
were served.

liors,

' president, John Lake.

| signifies.
| was given, and repeated by the pledges.

The University of Richmond, Rutgers,
Bucknell, and Haverford Colleges
Are Schools Encountered

END FRUITFUL SEASON

is Composed of McKeithan,
Brown, and Caldwell

Team

The Davidson debating team,
of Leland McKeithan, Gordon Brown, and
Caldwell, alternate, recently returned
from a most successful northern campaign.
On the trip four debates were held with
the University of Richmond, Rutgers, Buck-
nell, and Haverford Colleges.

The Davidson debaters emerged with
unanimous decisions in all except the last
mentioned, which was conducted on the
Oxford plan, no decision being given.

The Davidson team avenged the defeat
handed them last year by Richmond by easily
gaining a 3-0 decision over the Virginians.
The hardest debate was the one with Rut-
gers College of New York which went to
Davidson 3-0 after a spirited argument.
Bucknell was also defeated by a 3-0 score.

In each case the Davidson team debated
the negative side of the question, “Resolved:
That the War Debts Should Be Cancelled.”

On the trip the team. made arrangements
for debates next year with Yale and Prince-
ton Universities. Both schools will be met
on the same northern trip next year,

The trip closed the debating season with
an exceedingly good record. <A total of
twelve debates were held this year, five of
them being of the non-decision type. Out
of the other seven, Davidson won five and
lost two. Last year was also a very suc-
cessful season. Out of seven contests, Da-
vidson was victor in» six. During the last
two years, the Davidson debaters have lost
only three out of fourteen debates.

In addition to the northern trip, a southern
and a we stern trip were made McKeithan,
Smith, and Humphrey made the southern
trip, while Hugh Hawkins and Charles

composed

Tom

| Moore debated westward

The debating team this year will lose two
of its most valuable members by graduation,
Charles Moore and Leland McKeithan. Both
have been highly active in this work for the
past few years However, the prospects for
next year appear bright with the return
of four men who were active this year Hugh
Hawkins and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, jun-
and Gordon Brown Smith,
sophomores, will return

Reporters Club
Holds Initiation

and Bob

The Reporters’ Club recently brought
jtheir annual initiation ceremony to a close,

when the club received into its rolls eighteen

new reporters The initiation was held in
the Y. M. C. A. Social Center Jast Tuesday,
| April 4.

The meeting was opened by the retiring
After a short talk to
the pledges, the president read to them the
constitution of the society and all that it
Afterwards the oath of initiation

Those newly accepted into the society of
reporters include the following men; Bill
Bowman, Addison Brenizer, Lamont Brown,
Tom Downie, Harvey Glass, Bill Goody-
koontz, P, D. Guerrant, Paul Harlan, Carlyle

| Lewis, Billy Merchant, Jack Plunkett, Roger

Riley, Hervey
Sutlive, John
Fields Young.

Charles
Wooten, and

Ross, Mark Senter,
Walker, j Ed

At the end of the initiation ceremony, a
short business meeting was held, at which
the officers for next year were elected. E. L.
Powell is to be the president of the club
during the coming term; Don Bailey, vice-
president, and Sam Eaton, secretary-treas-
ners

A session was given over to the reviewing
of old business and plans for the coming
year: The proposition was made that the
members of the Reporters’ Club who be-
came managing editors be allowed to remain
in the club. Heretofore they have been au-
tomatically dropped. However, it was decid-

(Continued on page 6)
