DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

3

NEW BOOKS RECEIVED

BY DAVIDSON LIBRARY

(Continued from page

Ady: Isabelle d’Este.

Ady: Beatrice d’Este.

Mayorca: Short History
Drama.

Leech: Paradox of Plenty.

Tucker: Modern Continental

Hart: Creative Moments in E

Aldrich: Primitive Mind and M
ization.

Rippey: The Capitalist and Colombia.
Kennedy: The Real Daniel Webster.

Marshall: The Story of Haiti.
Levine: Red Smoke:
Cutting: Jefferson Davis, Polit

Beyle: Red and Black Kimball.

Kimball: Current Events and
Coffin: Meaning of the Cross.

Gardner: Art Through the Ages.

of

Hill: Roosevelt and the Caribbean.
Fraser: Analyzing the Industries.
Sands: Literary Genius of the Old Testa-

1) ment.

Jenness: Men Who Stood Alone.

Taeusch: Policy and Ethics in Business.

American] Singer: Story of Living Things.

Hance: The Machines We Are.

Wissler: Business Administration,
Plays. Hocking: Spirit of World Politics.
ducation. Donnelly: Administering the Senior De-

partment of a Church School.
Jordan: Discovering-Christopher-Columbus:
Hocking, et al: Rethinking Missions.
Trout: Religious Behavior.
Boggs: The Christian Saga.

odern Civil-

Myers: The New York Money-Market.
Beebe:.Nonsuch; Land of Water.
Hyde: International Law.

Alexander : Twilight of Royalty.
Little: George Washington.

Beals: Porfirio Diaz.
Jennings:

isms,
Bode: Antique Rugs.
Riker: Making of Rumania. :

INSPIRING TALK GIVEN

BY JULIAN S. MILLER

(Continued from page 1)

Behavior of the Lower Organ-

| said was the very beginning of common
;sense. Humanity must adopt Jesus’ phil-
osophy of life before any happiness can be
obtained. He has never offered a wrong
principle and we could never be wrong to
follow Him,

The truth about life is Christ. Today peo-
ple have ho philosophy of life except—It’s
no use! The simple and proved principle of
Jesus is» the best—try it. The body is a
chariot and the soul is the driver. Don't
build beautiful bodies as so many are doing
today and ‘neglect your soul.to let it drive
your chariot on the rocks.

Jesus is the truth about responsibility in

trouble With us today is that we have lost| people. The new teaching that man has no

There will be ten events on the parallel
bars, nine on the horizontal bars, nine on
the horse, and five in tumbling. Condition
tests will be held in the following: chinning,
swinging dip, rope climbing, and the cassock
step.

The individual scoring the highest num-
ber of points will receive a trophy. The
class having the highest score among the
first twenty men will receive 20 points to-
ward the inter-class competition plaque, and
the class having the next highest score will
receive 15 points. Class nunaber three will
be accredited with 10 points, and number
four with five.

Paul Brown won first place last year with

Jones: Readings in Citizenship.
Hunter: Romance of Fish Life.
Swift: Federal and State Politics.
Welles: Naboth’s Vineyard.
Clark: John Quincy Adams.
Stuart: Christian Rossetti.

ical Soldier.

Structure.

Dostedevskii: The Possessed.

lorga: History of Roumanija.

Kerr: History of Banking in Scotland.
Oliver: Fear.

Kirk: Stars, Atoms, and God.
Seligman: Studies in Public Finance.
Hamlin:

Forster: A Room With a View.
Beck: Our Wonderland of Bureaucracy.
Breen: John Calvin, A Study in French}
Humanism. |
|

Green: A Laughing Picneer.
Benson: The Earth, the Theater of the!

Universe. | Textbook of the History
Germane: Character Education. | Architecture,
McCabe: Spain in Revoit. | Erleigh: Mind of the Growing Child.
Myers: Human Engineering. Smart: Introduction to the Theory
Annunzio: Flame. of Life. | Values.

Dutten+ Samaritans of Molokai.
Richards: Art in Industry.

Reagam: Fundamentals of Teaching.
Plunkett: Outlines of Modern Biology.

our conception of the sovereignty of God. |
We have tried to substitute science as right
and denying God the right to rule.

To the query, “Who is God?” Jesus an-
swers, “I am.” Conceive God as we con-
ceive Jesus, Get close to God. He is no stran-
ger. “I am the Truth of God” Jesus answers
to the question.

Christ is the truth about religion also. Re-
ligion is no system of theology. It is a hu-
man experience. When we strip it of its
forms we find it is just a way of life. Once}
of a preacher said religion is eestasy and a}
divine experience. It is all of that, but. it
has to get out of the pulpit.

To me religion |

of lis service, ‘helping people. | Davi he > > 3m “ea $5 work, including the subjects specified for
8 1 ely 1 op! l avidson, when membe rs from “each clas Crads AT Médinal Schesla, Gatulegues and
Take religion down frem the clouds and) will try for points in parallel bars, “hori- application forms may be obtained from the
clear all of its mystery away and we ‘see| zontal bars, horse, tumbling, and condition Sere
that it is practical. Everything Jesus ever | events, P'S

part in his destiny is all foolishness.
what we are.
be.

We are
We can be what we want to
The success or failure to goodness is

a score of 260 points, 36 points more than
his nearest rival, L. Adcox, who had a total
of 224 points. Vickery, with 202 points, was

the personal following of Jesus. Once we} third.
attach we are sure of a certain destiny no| .
oOo

matter what.

) With prayer.

Competition to Begin

day, January 26, in the old gymnasium at

Dr. T. W. Lingle dismissed the meeting

DUKE UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each

These may be taken consecutively
. in three years) or three terms may
be taken each year (M.D. in four years).
The entrance requirements are intelligence,
character and at least two years of college

In Gymnastics Thursday

Gymnastic competition will begin Thurs-

ILLUSION:

One of Houdini’s most spectacular. escape feats
was performed with a huge milk can filled with
water. He invited persons of the audience to bring
padlocks and lock him into the can. He got into the
can, the lid was put on and fastened with several
padlocks. A screen was placed in front of the can.
Assistants stood by with stop watches and fire axes
to save him from drowning after a certain time.
About a minute later, the screen was removed,
Houdini was seen panting and dripping... the
padlocks remaining intact!

EXPLANATION:

The usual method of escaping from a milk can is
as follows: The lid of the can is apparently secure-
ly padlocked to the lower portion, but actually the
metal band to which the staples are attached is the
top of a short inner lining. The performer, after
being locked into the can, pushes the lid upward
with his head and the short inner lining is forced
out of place, permitting his escape. The screen is
then removed.

KEPT FRESH
IN THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK

ws

Copyright, 1933, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

— WO TRICKS
-SUST COSTLIIER
TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND

Lvs FUN T0 BE FOOLED
.. LLS MORE FUN To KNow

What exciting magic there is in cigarette
advertising!

Let’s look at one of its greatest #llusions
...that cigarettes can be mysteriously given
superior.“ FLAVOR.”

THE EXPLANATION: Just three factors con-
trol the flavor of a cigarette. The addition of
artificial flavoring...the blending of various
tobaccos...and the quality of the tobaccos
themselves. Quality is the most impor-
tant. Artificial flavoring can never wholly
disguise the poor flavor of cheap tobaccos.

The biending of several cheap, raw to-
baccos cannot improve the flavor of any
of them. A fine cigarette is a cigarette
blended from costly, ripe tobaccos.
—_- itis a fact, well known by leaf to-
bacco experts, that Camels are

made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE
tobaccos than any other popular brand.

This is why the Camel flavor has never
been rivaled . . . why Camels have given
more pleasure to more people than any
other cigarette ever made.

In more costly tobaccos lies the secret of
Camels’ delicate “‘bouquet’’...of their rich,
cool flavor—of their non-irritating mildness.

It’s the tobacco that counts.

All the natural goodness of Camel’s to-
bacco is kept fresh and rich for you by the
air-tight, welded Humidor Pack. Don’t re-
move it. Its moisture-proof cellophane also
protects your Camels from dust and germs.
Put a pack in your pocket today.

€LS

