N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

Che Pabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
legiate Year.. Entered as second class matter at the Tost
Office at Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Z ------------------Editor-in-Chief
KM, RANSON, Wisc vance awa asu eels Business Manager

>

EDITORIAL STAFF

Pedveculsccuveuuacdustbetaccese Managing Editor
: -Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
----Alumni Editor
-..Athletic Editor
.Exchange Editor
.--Feature Editor
\ ontributing Editor
» CLARDY-.__. --Associate Editor
*. SCHENCK__. --Associate Editor
. THOMPSON... --Associate Editor
WIDGIAMS) oJ Ristucscucdccscubcduccaccsce Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

---Assistant Business Manager

Assistant Business Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
vlicitor

WaeeT. eye
A, H. AN oe

licitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Seseecnseeoss-SOUCItOF
S SEusetssducsonekeetcesebacsaveqeultesssucatsaxcue President
Le nGAM Uf ige cote tay “Vice-President
RAWLINGS PRATT-THOMAS cretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN W. C, NEILL
D. B. BARRY. VERE TT
B. C. BARNES SLL
ADDISON WRENIZER POM. ROGERS
ADDISO? z 7 . M. ERS
B T BROWN MARK SENTER :
TOM Dt NIE CHARLES SUTLIVE
S..K. EATON T. H. SUTTON
HARVEY GLASS W. T. THOMPSON

OHN WALKER
v. W. WALLACE
J. W. WHITE
T. F. WOOD
ED WOOTEN

BILL GOODY KOONTZ
P. D, GUERRANT
PAUL HARLAN

FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1933

The most terrible of lies is not that which is
uttered but that which is lived —W. G. Clarke.

Thoughts in Passing

The Y. M. C. A. installation service was most im-
pressive. : :

eS »)

We wish for Wee Thompson and his cabinet a
year of passed in their work and serv-
ice in the coming year.

pea SE p Sa

Prospects for winning athletic teams are bright this

season, and they have our sincere backing.
D.

Spring Holidays are scarcely more than a week

away and our hearts truly leap up at the thought.
——————

Congratulations, Fred Smyre and Kenneth Weeks,
on your selections as presidents of the rising Senior
and Junior classes.

Se epee
AS A MATTER OF INTRODUCTION

In taking over the leadingship of “The Da-
vidsonian” with, this issue we realize that the
student body has entrusted us with the re-
sponsibility of faithful service for the coming
year. It is with the idea to serve-the student
body to the best of our abilities that we, the
incoming staff, accept this responsibility.

As we look back over the excellent records
set by editors of “The Davidsonian”-in the
past, we have a feeling of uneasiness that our
efforts can not he as fruitful as have the ef-
forts of our predecessors. We are somewhat
dumbfounded as we put out this issue without
the able leadership of our immediate predeces-
sor, Edward O. Guerrant, and the capable as-
sistance of the retiring managing editors:
Lyman Clardy, Alex Schenck, Wee Thompson,
at Jack Williams. We have enjoyed work-
ing together with them the past three years.

In assuming the leadership we wish to an-
nounce that in the coming year our main pur-
pose is to record correctly, interestingly, and
in a simple manner, information pertaining to
Davidson College and to Davidson students:
We realize that we cannot hope to attain our
aim without the entire support of the entire
student body; and for this reason we make a
plea for that same support the students gave
“Davidsonian” editors in the past.

Few changes occur in this issue. Other
changes will occur as we continue the pub-
lication of “The Davidsonian,” but any altera-
tions we may make—will,-we-hope, approach
our aim to record correct, information inter-
estingly. Since this is not just the editor’s

g ’
paper, but chiefly the’ student body’s paper,
any suggestions from the students for a bet-
ter “Davidsonian” will be gratefully received
and considered. We shall also be’ more than

pleased to publish any articles given us which

we may deem advisable to print. :
The staff wishes also to express its cordial

appreciation of the generous courtesy and as-

sistance of all those who. were so kind to help

I SAW

AN ESKIMELODRAMA: OR THE ESKAPADE
OF AN ESKAMAID

‘Mid Greenland’s polar ice and snow
Where watermelons seldom grow,
(It’s too cold up there, you know).
There dwelt a bold young Eskimo.

Beneath the self-same> iceberg’s shade,
In a fur of seal and bear arrayed,
(Not over cleanly, I'm afraid),

There lived a charming Eskamaid.

Throughout the six months’ night they'd spoon,
(Ah, ye of Sage, think what boon,

To stop at ten is much too soon),

Beneath the silvery Eskimoon

The hated rival now we see!
You spy thevcoming tragedy,
(But T can't help it, don't blame me),

An Eskimucker vile was he.

He found the lovers. there alone.

He killed them with his axe of bone
(You see how fierce the tale has grown)—
The fond pair died with an Eskimoan

Two graves were dug,
Were lined with fur
The two were buried
Quite safe from all

deep in the ice,
moth-balls. and spice;
in a trice,

Eskimtice

s.

Now Fido comes, alas, too tate!
(I hope it’s not indelicate,
These little incidents to state)—
The Eskimurderer he ate.

L’Envoi
Upon an Eskimo to sup
Was too much for an Eskipup—
He died. His Eskimemory
Is thus kept green in verse by me.

—C. W.

THE BREADWINNER

Baby's in the movies now,
We should care—for she’s*a wow

“Papa's quit his watchman’s job,
Mama's got to be a snob,
Sister Lou just bought a car
Brother smokes a mean cigar.

Baby dear can scarcely speak,
But she draws two grand a week.
As for modest me, I’m sure
I haven't changed since we were poor—
I'M THE BABY! :
—Thresa Crowd.

*... Young Richard Vowles standing entranced in
front of Cab Calloway while he directed his heigh
de-do orchestra about a fortnight ago, Incidentally,
Dr. Vowles was on the outside peeping in. He was
looking for a good place to go and read. They went
over to stay until the intermission, but remained. un-
til the last note had died away. While waiting, the
doctor read a German book,

. friendly Geddy Monroe quite’ confused when
he merged from behind the scenes with one of those
pretty little French girls at Valdese. They were all
ready to leave and he was not accounted for. I hear
the concert was fine and the people at Valdese were
very cordial and appreciative.

. also in connection with this event several sing-
ers walking in to town on a morning in their tucks.
What a forlorn sight! The truck had a flat tire the
other side of Mooresville and of course nobody had
thought to bring along a spare. Some of the crowd
caught a ride, others passed the night in front of
one of Mooresville's better emporiums, and a few
managed to hoof it.

- or rather heard*about a certain little boy who
hid his bank when his mother announced she had
something nice to tell him. He knew at once that
big brother was coming home from Davidson for
the Easter holidays.

.. and like the one about the woman who before
her marriage gave her husband a book entitled, “A
Perfect Gentleman.” A year after their rush down
the middle aisle she presented him with a copy of
“Wild Animals I Have Known.”

... a little fellow in the village implore his mother
to let him go over on the campus when a crowd of
locals were chasing those owls the other ‘afternoon.
The little fellow commented, “Why, there’s owls and
lots of funny things over there!” I think right here
I should tell -more concerning the history of one of
these owls. Billy Ward kept one of them in his room
for the night. Imagine his embarrassment on awak-
ing of a morning to discover the bird had laid an
egg. Since then, his witty roommate, D. D. McBryde,
has nicknamed him Maternity Ward.

. and heard about a local student who is down
and out. He told me himself not long ago that he was
paying cash for everything.

with this, its first issue, and especially to Ed-
ward O, Guerrant, Jack Williams, John Lake,
J. W. White, and Jack Goodykoontz, who
helped so kindly to make possible this edition
of “The Davidsonian.”

. and have had occasion to observe that any-
body can write about college life. If he has not at-
tended college, so much the better. His imagination
is less trammeled. Here are a few simple rules to be
observed:

1, All heroes are named Tom, Dick or Harry.

2. All college men wear sweaters and smoke pipes.

3. Any four college men make up a quartet, which
can sing “Merhileeee we ro-hdll alonng” at any time.

4. All college men are wooing a girl named Dor-
othy or. Betty, who is “sweet as an angel.”

5. College men spend most of their time tossing,

repartee back and forth. ;
6. All college rooms are adorned with pennants.
g. ‘ ”
7. All college men call their fathers “the ’ole man
and speak of “college spirit” in a husky voice.

. and like the cover on “Life” for this month. It
is called “Cherchez La Femme” and shows three
young ladies in mannish sack suits with trousers and
all the rest. It was modelled by Gaba.

. Gussie Holt declare that he is looking for a
girl with money because they say people with oppo-
site characteristics make the happiest marriages. He
sure is a card. : :

. a crowd of college students cast all dignity to
the winds and go native of an afternoon. Handsome
Lorenzo McPhail, Warner DuBose, and Gus May-
nard were going around barefoot in front of Watts
and having the time of their lives doing it. This is
the, gospel truth:

Prof. Fleagle’s darling little granddaughter
from Greensboro up town with him recently. She
likes to watch the military drills on her visits to Da-
vidson, for uniforms strike her fancy. On espying
Captain Cochran in the p. o. she exclaimed, Oh,
Dranpa, look at the soldier boy!

... Bigelow Bailey ask his roommate if his prac-
ticing on the clarinet made him nervous. Frey? Mc-
Phail sympathetically replied that it did when he
first heard people on this hall discussing it, “but now
I'm getting so I don’t care what happens_to you,”
he added.

. a porter on a greyhound the other morning
announce the arrival of the bus with, “Davidson, this
is the place where Woodrow Wilson received his

education—at.”

. attractive Carrie Lee Lingle home from Agnes
Scott for the Easter holidays. By the way, she is
editor-in-chief of “The Silhouette,” the college an-
nual, this year and has taken an active part in other
campus activities. I also hear that she had a charm-
ing house guest over the week-end.

. or guess by this time you have looked down
at the signature and know who Tippy really is. Now,
if anybody wants to get even, they'll have to see me
by appointment. I’m going to be a very busy man.
Just let me know a little beforehand so I can lock
the door, My roommate, Lyman Clardy, says he will
not be responsible for any damage to the furniture,
and I do hate a row! ;

Seriously, I really got a big kick out of writing
this column. Everybody took it in the right spirit
and we enjoyed it together. Don’t you think for a
minute I told even half what I know. I was very
discreet and then that cagle-eyed editor, Ed Guer-
rant, often found it necessary to rule out the best of
the chatter. Why, sometimes I didn’t recognize my
column when it appeared in the paper! But I don't
blame him; I thought he was a peach of an editor!

I just hope you got half the pleasure out of read-
ing it that I did in writing it each week. Anyway it
was something new under the sun! So this is the
end—goodbye, au revoir, buenos dias, auf Wieder-
sehen, and that’s all, there’ ain't no more!

Yours old friend,
Jack Williams, Jr.,
alias
TIP POFF.

Collegiate Ramblings
: J. E. LAKE

Wisk al:

V. P. I. is to have none other than “Genial” Jan
Garber and his orchestra and Kay Keyser and his
orchestra for their Easter dances this week-end,
April 7th and 8th. Jan will play for the Cotillion Club
Friday night and Kay for the German Club on Sat-
urday night. The Techmen are expecting a large
crowd up there; they should get it with two such
fine orchestras. Both of these .are well known, espe-
cially to listeners of WLW of Cincinnati. Kay hasn’t
played there lately, but Jan has been a regular en-
tertainer for the last few months.

The Harvard Teachers Association have decided
that examinations are no good. We imagine that all
Davidson students will agree to that and hope that
it is enforced here. Not much chance while the pres-
ent members. of the student body are here.

Roanoke
Beware of Minnesota co-eds, The co-eds at this
university are liable to a fine of $10 or -six days in
jail if they are found wearing a fraternity pin.

University af South Carolina
The Gamecock’s April Fool issue is called The
Horse Doctor (neighing for prettier co-eds). Here
are some of the headlines: Beer rejected by U. S.
C. students; Bradley leads studes in Nudist move-
ment; Frat merges with Sorority: $500,000 Sta-
dium Given University.

WORLD SPECTATOR

Recent reports, put out by British news corre-
spondents, have it that Russia is having a famine,
and in some parts of the country, a great many are
dead from starvation. But according to Walter
Duranty, things are not as bad as they have been
said to be. It is true that there is a food shortage
in certain parts of Russia, the Ukraine, North Cau-
casus, and lower Volga, but this shortage is not
enough to cause wholesale deaths from starvation.
This food shortage has been caused by mismanage-
ment and corruption on the part of some of the
agricultural commissioners, in charge of the collective
farming program. The Russian famine propaganda
is another of a series of prophesies and statements
issued by British writers which later. were found to
have no foundation. It is true, however, that the pres-
ent Russian condition may become a terrible famine
should the grain crop of this year fail. Should the
weather ruin the grain crop, the Russian Soviet
would have a hard time holding its own, but if the
crop is as usual, all the present hunger will soon be
over.

Last week, the British automobile manufacturers
sold more cars than in any week since 1929. It is
thought that this shows a definite upward trend of
the automobile business, and an indication of busi-
ness in general. The record breaking sales were
thought to have been caused by a return of confi-
dence and an opening up of trade. If Great Britain
is returning from the depression there is a feeling
of general economic optimism ‘for the whole world.

Rochester, New York, has recently had a mild
strike. The farmers supplying the milk to the city
have struck and have not only declined to send their
dairy products to Rochester, but have tried to cut
off all milk spplies to Rochester. The city, however,
has been able so far to procure milk by having it
brought in from neighboring cities’ supplies by armed
convoys..oftrucks... These-trucks-have—in many-cases
had to fight their way through crowds of irate
farmers who tried in every way possible to dump
the milk or else spoil it. The farmers succeeded in
ruining milk loads which were being taken to Roch-
ester by independent producers, They either dumped
the milk onto the highway or poured oil or kerosene
in it. -

It seems that this strike is a very foolish and
brutal thing, for should the strikers succeed in cut-
ting off the Rochester milk supply,—it-would—he-the—
small children and infants who would suffer. Milk
is absolutely necessary to the life of the small chil-
dren, and the farmers take advantage of this fact
in trying to raise the price of milk. But in so doing,
they endanger the life of many Rochester children.
So far, however, the forces of law and order have
been able to keep the city supplied with milk.

Synthetic: stone, usable for the building of any
kind of building from bungalow to skyscraper, has
recently been made by research chemists at Purdue
University. This stone is made by pulverizing a mix-
ture of waste materials and compressing them in
steel moulds under a pressure of 2.500 pounds per
square inch. A chemical Process is gotten by first
drying the compressed mass: and then steaming it.
The completed article is not unlike ordinary huilding
Sfone, and can be made any color by the addition of
coloring matter in the mixture. It is said, too, that the
stone will not streak with alkali which washes out
of ordinary building stone when it becomes weath-
ered. Laboratory tests show that the stone is well
adapted to buliding purposes, and is as good as-or
better than regular building stone.

There are various signs of improvement in eco-
nomic conditions throughout the world. Whether
they are just slight tremors in the business graph,
or whether they are the beginning of a general up-
ward trend in business is rather difficult to say. It
is, however, very pleasing, to read that most of the
leaders of business are optmiistic, and if the mental
recovery is started, surely the material rise is not
far away. The National City Bank, surveying fe-
cent events, states, “It is demonstrated that sound
measures, however drastic, will win the co-operation
of the people, and if these measures are adminis-
tered as they deserve to be, there will be no ques-
tion as to restoration of order in the cerdit situa-
tion.” Another optimistic report is that issued by
Leon Fraser, new president of the Bank of Industrial
Settlements. He prophesied a return of Great Brit-
ain to the gold standard, and showed general op-
timism in a world economic recovery.

The Nazis are now doing all kinds of things to
persecute the Jews in Germany, and are probably
doing more harm to themselves than they are helping
the Nazi cause. Their persecutions have aroused the
rest of the world against them, and that is no slight
account. Even if this were not the case, the vandal-
ism and boycotting is hurting Tuetons about as
much as Hebrews. The broken windows and de-
stroyed stores are insured by German companies, and
are therefore paid for by the Germans. The boy- :
gotting of all Jewish businesses means the throwing
cut of employment of a great) many Gentiles. So no
matter how the situation is viewed, the Nazi pro-
gram against the Jews seems foolish and entirely
unnecessary. How the German people can desire such
a program is hard to understand. Perhaps they have
beat in a depressed state for such a long time that
they need something to give them a feeling of su-

periority and thus Preserve some of their self-re-
spect.
