THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

Alumni Personals

Alumni writing the college durifig the past
week include Dr. W. T. McClure, ’10, 47
Zane Street, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. W. S.
Dowell, Jr., ‘04, 1310 Bolton Road, Pellham
Manor, New York; Rev. W. M. Morton, Lex-
ington, Va.; Mr. C. S. Hicks ’07, Morris Plan
Bank, Raleigh, Nt C.; Pres. Henry D. Bed-
inger, Red Springs; J. E. Singletary, '25,
820-€arolina~Ave;-Winston-Satem;~-Dr>-Ed=
gar Dawson, '95, 691 Park Avenue, New
York. Dr. Dawson is a professor at Hunter
College. D. R, Brandon, Kannapolis. Mr.
Brandon has a position in the office of the
Cannon Mills Company. —

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of the wife of Rev. R. S. Arrowood, '13, who
died in Concord, January 19, and the passing
of the wife of Rev. C. B. Craig, ‘11, who
died in Suffolk, Va. Samuel C, Booker,
brother of Dr. E. N. Booker, '20, of Selma,
N. C,, also died recently.

Alex Eddleman, '30, of Goldsboro, has been
a recent visitor on the campus. Mr. Eddle-
man is living in Statesville now and writing
life insurance.

Roger Enloe, '32, who has been teaching
and coaching at Wacona High, just out from
Waycross, Ga., has been made principal of
the school.

Horace W. Erwin, °32, is connected with
Stony Brook School on Long Island and
also has a position with the Chase National
Bank in New York City.

Emery Flinn, ‘19, Atlanta, brother-of Billy
Flinn of the Senior class, married Mrs, Ella
Hill Hogan, of Winston-Salem, niece of Mrs.
Clark Howell, wife of the publisher of the
Atlanta Constitution, in New York City, De-
cember 10,
at the Fifth

The ceremony was performed
Avenue Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Gordon Westrope, ‘14, is now in charge
or the State Hospital at Columbia, S.C.

James M, Appleby, '26, of Florence, Ala.,
was a visitor on the campus last Friday. Mr.

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s -
Gulf Station

.

:

Appleby has just returned from an 18
months’ study and travel in Scotland. After
finishing at Davidson he was “Y” secretary
for two years.

Hal Harris, 32, is working for Price
Waterhouse-and Company, auditors, in New
York City, His address is 26 Willow St.
Brooklyn, N. Y.

Lewis Gregg, '34, and Bill Matttt@ws,~32>

areattending the University of Texas at
Austin this year. Mr. Gregg is a junior and
Mr. Matthews—is-doing-graduate—work,

Billy Franklin, °32, is doing special gradu-

ate work in German at the University of
Chicago.

J. T. Welch, Jr., '32, is a student at Duke
University. As a side issue he is assisting
with the young people’s work of the. First
Prebyterian Church of Durham. His address
is 509. Holloway Street.

G. P. Pardington, '32, is a student at Gen-
eral Theological. Seminary, Chelsea Square,
New York. He is preparing for tle Epis-
copal ministry.

Charles G. Baskerville, '28, is with the
Florida West Coast Broadcasting Company.
His address is,Hotel Tampa Terrace, Tampa,
Florida.

Dr. Laechlin M,. Currie, '18, is with the Re-
search Laboratories of the National Carbon
Company, Cleveland. At one time Dr. Curries
Was an assistant professor in the Davidson
science department. His address is Box 400

Rev. W. B. Chandler, '07, who some months
ago resigned as pastor of the Presbyterian
Church at Monroe on, account of ill health,
is now. living at 2820 Blossom Street, Co-
lumbia, S.C.

pp)

D. P. MeGeachy, Jr., '22, formerly
of Atlanta, has accepted the call to Monroe,
N,: G,, the pastorate by Dr.

Chandler.

Rev.

to vacated

A. L. Young, '238, C. P. A., is teaching at
Lees-McRae College and assisting with the
office work. :

L. C. R. Deck, ‘27, is with the Gulf Re-
fining Company, Atlanta, Ga.

C. W. Arnold, '32, has a position in a mill
office in Greensboro.

John H. McKinnon, Jr., '32, is attending
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Gardner H. Green, ‘29, has a position with
the division of the New York
Stock Exchange. His address is 170 Feni-
more Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

personnel

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG: CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

H. Steven Brown, '32, of Mt. Ulla, is now
living at Ramseur, N. C.

J. A. Lake, Jr., ’25, is associated with
Wynn, Hafter, and Lake, Greenville, Miss.
Mr. Lake is a member of the Mississippi
State Legislature.

W. M. Croker, '32, is teaching mathematics,
science, and coaching at Wade, N. C.

“M.-F. McDavid, '32, who has been teach-
ing at Glade Valley, N, C.. now -has-a-posi-
tion in the Morehead City School.

Wallace Harwood, ‘14, has registered his
two small sons at Davidson. W. B., Jr.,
will be of the class of '47, and Russel will
come two years later in 1949. Mr. Wallace
wrote Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, and had
them registered so that they will be sure of
a place.

J. Eris Cassel, '21, has assumed the prin-
cipalship of the Concord High School, Con-
cord, Mass.

Zz. V. Long, Jr., '30, is teaching at the
Virginia Episcopal School at Lynchburg, Va.

WEDDINGS
Announcement has been made of the mar-
riage of Miss Mary Brandon, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Vaughan of States-
ville, N. C., and J. Lawrence Smith, '31, of
Monroe, Saturday, December 31, at States-
ville.

Announcement has been made of the mar-
riage of Miss Virginia Shellem, daughter of
Dr. G. W. Shellem, of Denver, and Gene
B. Bolich, ’32, son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Bolich, also of Denver, Saturday, December
31, at York, S. C. The bride is a senior at
Queens-Chicora College. The bridegroom is
a member of the faculty of Rock Springs
High School.

An article in an issue of the
Charlotte month concerning
J. P. Munroe, ‘82, who is-a prominent Char-
Dr. Munroe was honored
with a dinner given by the medical men of
the state. Dr. Munroe’s name_has_ been
synonomous with the highest ideals and at-
tainments of medicine in North Carolina for
many years and the honor bestowed by those
in his profession at the Charlotte Country
Club shows how highly he is esteemed.

appeared
Observer last

lotte physician.

OBITUARY :

Sathuel Reed Sloan; '23, one’ of the best
known and most beloved of the young busi-
ness men in Salisbury, died there at a hos-
pital from peritonitis‘ recently. Since gradu-
ating from Davidson, where he Won many
honorsy~-Mr-—Sloan’’was connected with a
branch the Wachovia Bank and Trust
Company. The funeral services were held at
the First Presbyterian Church,

of

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of Dr. Geo. McCrea Robson, ‘19, who died
January 11 in Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. Robson
was one of the most prominent of the young
scientists graduating from Davidson in many
years. While at Davidson he was enthusi-
astic in his biological workand was one of
Dr. J. W. MacConnell’s able helpers in that
department. He carried his enthusiasm for
research into his medical course.

After one year as teacher at Chamberlain-
Hunt Academy, he entered the University
of Pennsylvania Medical School and gradu-

ated with honors. While there he was made

Norman Brokenshire Tunes Up Chesterfield
Radio Stars for the New Year

Reading from left to right, Tom Howard, George Shelton, Ruth Etting, Bing Crosby, Norman

Brokenshire and Lennie Hayton.

resident physician in the University Hospital
for.two years. Later he was made associate
professor in pathology and was in line for a
full professorship in the University of Penn-
sylvania when his death occurred.

Last year he was made pathologist to
Misan-Cordia Hospital at a handsome sal-
ary. He was secretary-treasurer of the
Philadelphia Pathological Society and a fre-
quent contributor to medical journals. He
is survived by his wife, who was Miss Naomi
Fithian, a frequent visitor to Davidson, and
two children. : :

Mrs. Alice Robson, his mother, has been
for 25 years in charge of the Davidson Col-
lege Infirmary, and students and friends ex-
tend their deepest sympathy in her bereave-
ment.

encase

The sympathy of the friends of Mr. F. D.
Hobart, supervisor of grounds and buildings,
is extended him in the loss of his father,
Mr. F. D. Hobart, of Amherst, Mass. Mr.
Hobart was taken with a heart attack early
Sunday morning, January 1. We take this
opportunity~ to express our heartfelt_sym-
pathy to Mr. Hobart in his father’s passing.

(NOTE: It will be appreciated if those
alumni _who have items for publication will
send them to Jack Williams, Jr., Box 262,
Davidson, Ny €.)

Silver Screen

Wednesday, January 25—Twenty Thousand
Years in Sing Sing—(First National)
This picture is based on a book of memoirs
and theories of prison management of the
same name by Warden Lewis E. Lawes of

Sing Sing.

The central situation of the picture is the
result of the warden granting a prisoner
(Spencer Tracy) a holiday with no guaran-
tee other than the prisoner’s word to return,

Tracy visits his girl and during his call she
shoots and kills an admirer who has been
annoying her. Tracy,, though innocent, is
quite plausibly convicted of the murder and
sentenced to death.

__The scenes within the prison serve to en-

The Bookshelf

Invitation to the Waltz—Rosamond Leh-
mann; Henry Holt and Company.

The gifted author of Dusty Answer and
A Note in Music has written an artistic in-
terpretation of the glowing days in which a
young English girl blossoms into a mature
woman. In one, magic week comes this
gentle change. Opening the morning of
Olivia’s-seventeenth-birthday the story—closes
the day after her first ball, a week later.
From a sentimental girl who completely con-
fides with admiration in her older and pret-
tier sister, Kate, Olivia grows wiser, realiz-
ing after the ball that they can never be
intimate again.

The setting of the novel is a small town
in the English countryside. Here Olivia has
enjoyed a pleasant girlhood, living with prac-
tical parents, a shy uncle, the adored sister,
and a little brother, James. From the soft-
ly treated background of minor characters,
James radiates by his wistful actions and
naive verse. This winning character could
justify the novel alone by its inherent charm.

The various plans for the approaching ball
are described with suspense, and are accom-
panied by the cumulative excitement in
Olivia’s mind. By small details and subtie
moods, Miss Lehmann suggests clearly the -
emotions of the young girl, At times she
approaches the sensitivity of Katherine
Mansfield.

Typical incidents as the visit to the dress-
maker, the mental fears and almost a deci-
sion not to go, bitter disappointment at the
new dress until the guiding Kate discovers
that it is on backward, are quaint scenes for
the male reader but must arouse sympa-
thetic response from the woman. No doubt
the novel is a quiet revelation to a man,
a reminiscence to a woman.

At the anticipated ball, each dance partner

brings to trembling and yet exuberant
Olivia a new slant of experience. The dif-
ferent personalities of Jenkins, the poet;

Reggie, the boor; Timmy, the blind soldier,
all_the exciting people she meets,open_to

lighten the public that all penal systems are
not so cruel as the widely. discussed chain-
gangs. :

Thursday, January 26—The Son-Daughter—
(M-G-M)

This pathetic story of a Chinese girl in
San Francisco whose father has decided to
auction her off for twenty-five thousand dol-
lars in order to pay his pledge to a revolu-
tionist in China is made most realistic by
Helen Hayes as Lien Wha. :

Warner Oland, as a_ wealthy
bandit, and Ramon Novarro, as a handsome
young Chinese prince, play important roles
in an almost entirely Caucasian cast.
Friday, January 27—Second Hand Wife—

(Fox)

The author of the book on which this pic-
ture based, Kathleen Norris, made her
story interesting by depicting the office girl
who fell in love-with her boss as ignorant
that the boss’ wife had ceased loving him.
However, the director of the picture soon
left this theme and turned the picture rather
into a contest between the boss and his wife
for the custody of their child prodigy (Karol
Kay).

Sally Eilers, as the office girl, portrays her
role fairly well; but the true star of the
show is Karol Kay, who makes it very real
just what it means to be a child prodigy.

is

Saturday, January 28—Billion Dollar Scandal

Constance Cummings, who seems to be
moving up very rapidly in the ranks of the
stars, plays a characteristically good role in
this picture.

Chinese |!

her widening eyes the complexities beyond
girlhood, Olivia reflects that “This is life
at first hand.”

The glamorous evening is climaxed when
Rollo, the host, takes her to meet his father
in his library and to see the old gentleman’s
books. “The ‘dancing, the people beyond
were nothing, a froth on the surface, soon
to be blown away. This, that she felt as
stood between them, was the reality
about the house; kindness, tolerance, cour-
tesy, family pride, and affection.”

Olivia returns home with the
party, all of her memories merged in. de-
licious haze. Next morning, after the inevit-
able description-of>the party to her mother,
she suddenly realizes in reflection what a
sudden gap there is now between her sister
and herself. “Everything had changed,
everything was different. In confusion she
walks out through the meadow. ‘“Life—she
felt choked.”

she

Sleepily

Miss Lehmann is sensitive and delicate in
her treatment and yet has managed to glide
above sentiment. A few rough spots do not
mar the smooth texture of the simple and
beautiful story. To apply a bit of its descrip-
tion the novel is “fair, classic, rosy, cold.”
The novelist has handled her theme tenderly
and in reader approval, her novel will be

cherished. —E. A. HANCOCK.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men
Come Here”

Seven Hundred
New Styles . ...

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

Announcing . ..
SPRING OPENING

By Star Direct Tailors
$20 to $35

January 25th and 26th--Wednesday and Thursday

At the “SODA SHOP”...Next to Post Office

5 GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

