THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS, OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
~ legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, ‘Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication’ must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDW
A. M. MANSON

» Editor
we F SCHENCK. -Managing Editor
W. M THOMPSON Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS. Managing Editor
ODI. CASALI....--- .---Athletic Editor
3. E. LAKE... .-Exchange Editor

: W. WHITE.- Feature Editor
. S. GAMBLE .-Feature Editor
J. T. GOODY KOO} i Editor
E. A. HANCOCK... .----Review Editor
D D. McBRYDE.. .---Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE .-Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS..--... Associate Editor
B, B. SUGGs.2..5......220 22s Associate Editor

' BUSINESS STAFF e

oT. SJORNSONztetesgptecncccse Assistant Business Manager
ve i MANSON of Assistant Business Manager
ALV J Solicitor
H EL olicitor
Te solicitor
G arisieor
Tae P RASH RUN Taudcusnsssccusccanesdasusaaees olicitor
Fe PenO Rises ccoiecee Solicitor
: olicitor
i olicitor

J. & LA
LEWIS GREGGiitt thesirissccnne caucahenames Secretary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN J. L.. McCLINTOCK

R. H. ALDERMAN W. L. McILWINEN

G. E. BAIL Ek. F. McPHAIL

D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL :

B. €. BARNES W. L. NORTHEN

J. E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL

. E. BOYD EL. POWELL

fr H. COVINGTON Sake PRESTON

S. K. EATON L. M. ROGERS

J. B. FICKLIN R. L. ROSE

G. L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON

{Ack HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C. HENRY ZE

k A. HUNTER AR

. E. LORRAINE

T. F. WOOD

W. F. MULLISS

MARCH 8, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

“Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought
for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye
shall. drink; not yet for your body, what ye
shall put on. Is not life more than meat, and
the body than raiment?”—Matt. 6:25.

Any thinking man, or even an unthinking
one, cannot help but be alarmed at the bank-
ing situation in this country. Hence he can-
not help but be alarmed at the economic sit-
uation of not only the United States, but of
the whole world. It is a time when we must
have calmness, serenity, and faith. From an
essay of William George Jordan, “The Maj-
esty of Calmness,” I wish to quote the fol-
lowing:

“Calmness is the rarest quality in human
life. It is the poise of a great nature, in har-
mony with itself and its ideals. It is the
moral atmosphere of a life self-centered, self-
reliant, and self-controlled. Calmness_ is
singleness of purpose, absolute confidence,
and conscious power,—ready to be focused
in an instant to meét any crisis. :

“No one lives his life more fully, more in-

tensely, and more consciously than the man”

who is calm.

“The man who is calm has his course in
life clearly marked on his chart. His hand
is ever on the helm. Storm, fog, night; tem--
pest, danger, hidden, reefs,—he is ever pre-
pared and ready for them. He is made calm
and serene by the realization that in these
crises of his voyage he needs a clear mind
and a cool head; that he has naught to do but
to do each day the best he can, by the light
he has; that he will never flinch nor falter for
a moment; that, though he may have to tack
and leave his course for a time, he will never
drift, he will get back into the true channel,
he will keep ever headed toward his harbor.
WHEN he will reach it, HOW he will reach
it, matters not to him. He rests in calmness,
knowing he has done his best.

“Calmness comes ever from within. It is
the peace and restfulness of the depths of
our nature. The fury of storm and of wind
agitate only the surface of the sea; they can
penetrate only two or three hundred feet,—
below that is the calm, unruffled deep. To be
ready for the great crises of life we must
learn serenity in our daily living. Calmness
is the crown of self-control.

“When man has developed the spirit of
calmness until it becomes so absolutely part
of him that his very presence radiates it, he
has made great progress in life. Calmness
cannot be acquired of itself and by itself; it
must come as the culmination of a series of
virtues. What the world needs and what in-
dividuals need is a higher standard of living,
a great realizing sense of the privilege and
dignity of life, a higher and nobler concep-
tion of individuality.

‘With this great sense of calmness per-

Jarre:

‘members.

meating an individual, man becomes able to
retire more into himself, away from the
noise, confusion, and strife of the world. :

“His calmness is but a Holy of Holies
into which he can retire FROM the world to
get strength to live IN the world. He real-
izes that the full glory of individuality, the
crowning of his self-control, is,—the majesty
of calmness.”

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Onc of the most -glamorous-and-gala-enter-
tainments in the history of the college will
take piace in a short time in the form of an
old tradition,_Junior Speaking.

The Class of 1894 was the first to observe
this event, but its observance was very dif-
ferent from the present-day ceremony. For-
merly, every member of the Junior Class was
expected to give a public oration, the series
of which began on the twenty-second of Feb-
ruary and usually lasted for two or three
days until each student had delivered his
sneech. The necessity for discontinuing this
tradition was the rapid growth of the num-
hor in the classes.

The evolution of this series of speeches to
the gay week-end has taken place gradually.
The students realized a need for a gayer en-
terthinment and the present week-end was
the result. Now it has progressed with these
advancing times until the third-year class
has become known for its social entertain-
ments. Its selection of young ladies is un-
surpassed; the beauty of this fairer sex
would make the ante-bellum girls, with their
long dresses and curls, hide their faces in
shame. .

This scintillating entertainment will con-
vene in a leading hostelry in a nearby me-
tropolis.

“On with the
No sleep till morn
While.youth and pleasure meet
To chase the glowing hours
With flying feet.”

The local college music-makers, renowned
disciples of Orpheus, will preside. They, like
this ancient Greek muse, play with such
charm that the rocks and trees are moved.

Another advancement in keeping with
these. “times which try all men’s souls” are
the “bank-morbidtorium” prices, the like of
which the college has never seen before.

‘To the Student Body—enter into this affair
and co-operate with the Juniors in making it
the best week-end that has ever been held in
the history of Davidson; and to the Juniors
--this is your entertainment, put it over in
a big way.

, let joy be unconfined,

’

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
Those of our alumni and students who have

been holding the notion that Davidson should,

be admitted into the Southern Conference
will more than likely find their expectations
realized when that body meets next Septem-
ber. As a matter of fact, Captain Norton G.
Pritchett, director of athletics here, who has
worked unceasingly to obtain membership in
the Southern Conference for Davidson, -has
received word from several members of the
conference recommendation committee that
should the group: be expanded, Davidson
would be the first school taken in.

Many Davidson followers thought David-
son should have been admitted at the Janu-
ary meeting, which was held in Richmond,
Va., and they were disappointed when the
Southern Conference refused to expand. The
old Southern Conference was split early in
this school year because the body was too
There were twenty-three teams in it.
At the Richmond meeting, along with Da-
vidson there were six other schools applying
for membership. Since the conference had
just-smoothed over the effects of the split,
it could not admit one or two of the appli-
cants and refuse the others without giving
some definite reason; so it took in no new
Instead it appointed a committee
of three to make recommendations at the
September meeting on one or two schools
which might be admitted at that time.

Since athletics first began here, Davidson
teams have met as many Southern Confer-
ence teams each year as ha§ any of the mem-
bers of that body. Davidson has always en-
joyed fair—success in games played with
members: of the Southern Conference, and
even this year in football Davidson won three,
tied one, and lost three games to break even

for the season with teams which were mem-:

bers of that body.

In past years regulations of the Southern
Conference were not very strict, but at the
Richmond meeting scholastic requirements
were tightened until now they are somewhat
as-strict-as those which Davidson has held
for her athletes for many years. Because ‘of
this great difference in regulations hereto-
fore Davidson teams have been composed of
players who have been developed by David-
son coaches, because other schools, which
had more liberal rules, were able to get the
cream of the crop.

One new.rule passed by the Southern Con-
ference especially puts Davidson on an equal
basis with conference-members, and should
allow Davidson to get its share of promising
college athletes. That new rule is the one
which specifies that an athlete may not be

I SAW

-_—<—-

-<4

Buttons and hooks, buttons and hooks,
When a man’s married, you'll know by his looks.
—tThresa Crowd.

f Sas

.. nothing stirring on the campus over the week-
end. Part of the track team went to Chapel Hill,
the debating team was on its Southern tour, the
Student Volunteers met in Greensboro, most of the
faculty were golfing, and the remaining students
headed for Washington.

. and heard the most dreadful howling going
on 'ehind Chambers Building of a Tuesday morning.
it was dogs. There were little dogs and big dogs,
pedigreed ones and just “plain dogs.” This is a ra
of a local club’s initiation. Dr. Jerry McConnell
jokingly remarked for Osdar Bethea’s benefit that
he didn’t think we ought to dog fraternities at Da-
vidson. Oscar turned a violent red but judging
from Jim Halverstadt’s laughter he thought it was
a big joke.

. intelligent, young Bill Goodykoontz ordering
a meal at the local cafe yestereve. He asked what
there was for supper. Mac retorted, “Roastbeeffri-
casseedchickenstewedlambhashedbrownbakedandfried
potatoesjampuddingmilkteaandcoffee.”’ Bill replied,
“T’ll take the third, fourth, fifth, seventh, and eight-
eenth syllables.”

...and overheard downtown,that some dumb soph
called Dr. Richards on the telephone and asked what
the review in Bible would cover. Dr. Richards re-
minded him that they had just had the review. Even
a fresh would have known better than that! This
came straight. Two members of the sewing circle
said they heard it themselves.

. a newspaper cynic remark, “Some weddings
must make Cupid laugh up his sleeve.” Not with
the Cupid whose pictures we’ve seen. And d’ja hear
about the woman who was mad on the subject of
germs and sterilized everything in her house. She
couldn’t even get along with her family because her
relations were strained: Isn’t that redicl+

. .. Beta Chapter of P. K. A. celebrate its found-
ing with a highfalutin’. banquet at the S. & W.
Grand old Dr. Arbuckle, who is the grand councilor
of the fraternity, was toastmaster, and they say he
was at his best.

. one of my pals remark that as a little fellow
his greatest ambition was to wash his mother’s ears.
Can you bear it?

. pleasant Mrs. Pritchett trying to locate her
pocketbook in a local store Saturday afternoon. It
had slipped down in the lining of her coat and she
was earnestly endeavoring to recover it.

+ a group discussing what would happen if
students at Dasidson were forbidden to smoke cig-
arettes. I don’t _ know what would happen, but some
boys might not get any exercise.

. or rather missed faithful Miss Hattie Thomp-
son at her’ customary place at the organ Sunday.
She is recuperating from an appendicitis operation
at her brother’s, and I am glad to announce that
she will soon return to the college office where she
serves so efficiently as secretary.

. and heard it rumored that Junior Speaking is
to be one grand and glorious party. You really owe
it to yourself to attend, for you’ll miss a lot if you
don’t. Let me put you wise to a cozy place to take
that date for supper Saturday night. It’s the Hearth-
stone. Mrs. Holmes, who is known for her good
cooking, has reopened it and I hear it is the last
word in smart eating places.

- loads of folks speculating as to who is Tip
Poff. It still remains a deep, dark secret. Just to
think you may meet him on the campus, have a class
with him, sit by him in chapel, or even room with
the dope, and not know it! It’s something to think

about, but what’s more important you’d better walk

a chalk line these next few weeks if you don’t want
your name in black and white!

TIP POFF,

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E, LAKE

~—-Washington-and-Lee
The Daily Tarheel, of the University of North
Carolina, has rated the college newspapers of the
country in the following order: Columbia Spectator,
Wisconsin Daily Cardinal, Cornell Daily Sun, Stan-
ford Daily, Syracuse Daily Orange, Daily North-

the beneficiary of any scholarship, loan fund,
or position with financial compensation not
available to any other student. Davidson has
had this regulation for some time, but in the
past the conference members could award

these things wholly or in part for athletic

ability.

_ With bright prospects in football, wrest-
ling, boxing, track, cross-country, golf, ten-
nis, and baseball for the next year, Davidson
should have a high standing among members
of the Southern Conference in 1933, should
she be admitted at the September meeting.

: ODI CASALI.

WORLD SPECTATOR

Up until recent times, most of the insects which
destroy our crops were killed by arsenic. This chem-
ical kills the insects, and any other animal which
gets any of it into its system. The disadvantage of
arsenic is that the fruits or vegetables which have
been sprayed with arsenic must be carefully washed
end sprayed with something to remove the arsenic,
so-that the-human-who-eats-the—produce—may—not
got what was intended for the insects. About thirty
\ ars ago a vegetable product, Rotonone, was dis-

vered by a Japanese chemist. This chemical,

‘ich was originally used in a somewhat different
form as fish poison by savages, has a fatal effect
upon insects. It is about thirty times as powerful
es arsenic. It loses its power slowly when exposed
to light. Thus the poison, after being upon the
plants for a while, would become harmless to hu-
mans. This process is hastened by mixing the poison
with some powder which hastens the light process.
This would be the ideal insecticide but for the fact
that it costs too much. The present price is about
ten dollars a pound. Now extensive work has been
‘one, trying to find a cheaper process for making
RNotonone. It may be that a cheaper process may
be found in the near future by which the poison
may be made from coal tar. A large group of re-
search chemists are working on the possibility of
its derivation from coal tar.

Perhaps Technocracy may not have the power at
the present to gain control of the government, but
it has brought forth an idea which has been known
hy a great: many, but which has not had very se-
rious consideration. This is the idea of. decreasing
working hours because of the higher efficiency of
the workers. The latest developments in labor-savy-
ing devices have so increased the efficiency of the
worker that to produce the same results with the
sarne number of men either the workers must work
for shorter hours or one or two men can work at
the present full time and the others will join the
ranks of the unemployed. This was true, not only
in depression times, but even in the 1928 prosper-
ity. The Technocrats solve the problem by passing
laws limiting the working time of the individual.
The present plan existing here is the other idea, that
of letting one or two men do the work while the
rest are idle. The present social order might bor-
row the Technocrat idea, not in its original form,
for that. would probably limit personal liberty too
much to be accepted by the American public. The
procedure which would probably be used would be
that of action on the part of the industries them-
selves, supervised by the government. Even in times
of prosperity there were great numbers of unem-
ployed. This could not be called depression, but was
caused by the new machine age. While some were
working long hours with great output, others were
idle. If the working hours could be cut, the per man
output would be cut. Thus more would be employed
to get the same output.

The recent death of Senator Walsh wag very sud-
den, and was quite a shock to the nation. It seems
that no one knows what was the cause of his death,
and_the—body was embalmed within a few hours
after his death. We do not know exactly why there
was such a hurry in embalming, but it seems that
when a man of such high position dies suddenly of
unknown causes, there might be some effort made
to find out what was the cause of his death. Prob-
ably nine times out of ten, the cause would be found
to be perfectly natural, but-it would be worth while
to examine all cases in order to locate the ones in
which there were evidences of foul play.

One,_job-which would try. the patience of any
man is that of drilling holes in diamonds. This job
takes two weeks per diamond, and cannot be done
by machinery, but must be done by hand, since ma-
chinery is not accurate enough for the fine precision
which is necessary in the drilling. The holes are
0004 inches in diameter, and are used in drawing
out tungsten wire for electric light filaments. The
drilling, done by either hand or foot treddle_ power,
requires 14 days of drilling 24 hours a day.

western, Daily Iowan, California Daily Bruin, Mc-
Gill Daily, Michigan Daily. As we can see, there
are no Southern papers in the list; perhaps they
slighted the Alabama Crimson-White and the Tulane
Hullabaloo. _ Both of these last two are just about
the best in the South and should be recognized, but
perhaps we are not as literary as the North, North-
west, or Far West. The Daily Tarheel also says that
the depression has not hurt the tone and quality of
collegiate journalism.

A reporter on the Columbia Spectator interviewed
people on the streets concerning jcollege students.
After seeing a great number of people he learned
that on an average about five out of six people think
that college students are loafers. Some people!

A professor at Rochester recently gave this as a
definition of a good student: One who, even though
he looks at his watch, does not hold it up to his
ear. A lot of us would-be good students might be
classed as good students under that category.

Queens-Chicora

Our friends in the Queen City of the South tell us
that at the University of Richmond there was a poll
taken among the students to decide the best orches-
tra in the country. Our favorite, Guy Lombardo, is
leading the pack with Ben Bernie in hot pursuit,
followed by Wayne King and Rudy Vallee. Keep
up the good work. Guv.
