N
.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

The PDabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
legiate Year. Entered as second cla
Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
fass matter at the Post

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ODI_CASALI.-- :
Wi, 2 Ti JOHNSON saves coc cc cic ccc gecc cases Business. Manager

-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Managing Editor

.---Alumni Editor

E. N y ..-Athletic Editor
OHN A.’ HUNTER. .-Exchange Editor
NALD BAILE .---Feature Editor
arene ee RY... .-Feature Editor

--Feature Editor

. _M. THOMPSON. i i
JACK WILLIAMS, JR *-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

G. L. GREEN-- .-Assistant Business Manager
W._L.: SPRUNT. Assistant Business Manager
. R. TAYLOR Assistant Business Manager
} A. C. WADSWORTH .---Assistant Business Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

£y ---President
ay =f Vice-Pr t
Pascsteutnanscocsceceaskscceneaaes Secretary-Treasurer
M. W._ ALDERMAN W. C. NEILL
B. C. TRUMAN ACK PLUNKETT
BILL BOWMA OGER RILEY
ADDISON BRENIZER | P. M. ROGERS
LAMONT. BROWN J. H. ROSS
DOWNIE CHARLES SUTLIVE
LA T. H. SUTTON

WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1933

Men must expect to work and sacrifice for their
work if they are to accumulate enough of this
world’s goods to live with’ any degree of comfort,
—Anonymous.

BE NATURAL

Gypsy Smith made quite a few impressions
upon. Davidson students during the Spring
Services conducted last week under the aus-
pices of the Y. M. C..A. One statement in
particular that was clever but very true was
“the keynote of success is B-natural, and if you
don’t hit that key, you’ll b-flat.”

HONOR AT THE STUDENT STORE

It was a rather unpleasant but serious
charge that Jerome Clark, past president of
the student body, brought against the students
in assembly the other day. Throughout his
term of office Clark has tried to uphold or im-
prove old Davidson traditions and honor, and
it was in Davidson’s interest that he made
charge which we repeat here:

“The boys here are not abiding strictly by
the Honor System at the Student Store. They
justify taking more than their money’s worth
with all manner of lame excuses which they
should know are absolutely unreasonable.
They make fun and joke about eating broken
crackers, which according to’ them are sup-
posed to be free, and losing count of the num-
ber of cakes they have eaten. While it is all
right to have a bit of fun at the same time it is
far from right to carry the joke into a theft.
It would be a terrific blow to the Davidson
Honor System, as anyone should be able to
see, if the Student Store should have to close
its doors or even remove the Honor System
therefrom, because the Honor System failed
to work.” \

BENEFICIAL LEISURE

To help solve the unemployment problem,
President Ralph C. Hutchinson, of Washing-
ton and Jefferson College, at Washington, Pa.,
recently announced that in the coming fall
term unemployed men over 30 years of age
will be admitted to classes where no special
fees are required.

At the present time there is a large number
of white-collared men who are idle and who
would be glad to spend their imposed idle-
ness in furthering their mental powers if they
had the money with which to do it.

Other colleges and universities, which have
lower enrollments now than in past years,
could do a service to these idle men and at
the same time be helping themselves by fol-
lowing the plan used by W. & J. }

BABBITT BEGINS TO THINK

George F. Babbitt was that hypothetical
man-in-the-street created in 1920 by Mr. Sin-
clair Lewis. It was strangely paradoxical that
America, itself teeming with Babbitts, came
to hate this creation so much . For ten hectic

ears our average American held the boom-
ing tenor of his way. And then came the
crash.

During the post-war period—from the arm-
istice to the depression—the destinies of these
United Sta tas were almost completely. in the
hands of big business; but as long as there

was a chicken in his pot and two cars in his
garage, Babbitt did not worry about the des-
tinies of his nation. Little did it concern
him that an annual average of 2,000,000 men
were unemployed during the ’twenties. Mean-
while, in 1929, the Frankenstein formed by-the
captain of industry rose up and devoured not
only. its creator, but millions of his unwitting
fellowmen. And government was sternly ad-
vised to’stay out of business.

Even then Babbitt implicitly ttusted the
steel magnate, the Wall Street -banker, and
the Smoot-Hawley tariff. He was soothed
with assurances that “conditions are funda-
mentally sound” and that they would remain
so only if he relied upon “the fundamental in-
tegrity of this great nation.”

Three precarious years passed. Unemploy-
ment increased six-fold, wages were cut, and
prices fell; confidence was lost, and banks
tailed,

It was with the advent of the “new deal”
and the banking crisis that Babbitt really be-
gan to think. The lame ducks were ‘buried,
the high-Tories expelled; the few administra-
tidn broke with Wall. Street, and confidence
returned. President and Congress jointly
pushed a vigorous campaign of economic, in-
dustrial, and financial reform.

Babbitt took hope. Suddenly he realized
that the greater part of the nation was enthu-
siastically supporting policies that radicals had
championed for years. He found himself ad-
vocating and defending measures pointing to-
ward possible solutions that his complacent
conservatism had never before been able to
discern. Of at least one fact he was certain:
his repudiation of the antiquated policy of re-
lying upon big business for guidance and lead-
ership.

Babbitt takes hope. He is looking forward
to much-needed political and social reform. He
is relying upon the liberal leadership of an able
administration. Babbitt—the new Babbitt—
is beginning to think.

—STUART NOBLIN.

HILL RAIDIN’

b

University of Florida

Last Sunday marked the beginning of the fourth
annual Honor Week at the University of Florida.
The Honor Week is a brief period devoted to the
revival and stimulation of positive attitudes towards
the Honor System, one of Florida’s most treasured
traditions. Serious classroom discussions, programs
of campus organizations guided by pertinent speeches,
and active, constructive criticisms by all students were
expected to be forthcoming throughout the seven
days.

Middlebury College

Ahune, these clever Vermonters. A course in love-
making has been added to the curriculum at Middle-
bury College. Members 6f the faculty, first, second,
and third-year students have enrolled. Such°a course
ought to go over great at Davidson. Especially under
the Middlebury plan, as the seniors act as demonstra-
tors. And can our seniors take it???!!

Duke
This depression is getting bad. Members of a cer-
tain Duke orchestra had all of their instruments
stolen during the first week ‘of April, Howéver, fate
was kind, so that when one member of the orchestra
went’ into'a pawn shop in Greensboro to purchase
more instruments, he found all-of the stolen instru-

ments. The matter was immediately reported to the
police, and the instruments were returned to the
orchestra.

Clemson
It has been rumored about on the Clemson campus
that new scientific methods were going to be used
to clean the barracks. As some wit has said, “Gentle-
men, the old ‘Quick Henry, the Flit’ method will get
rid of them too.”

Vv. PLL

From “The Virginia Tech” we find the headlines,
“Experts Baffled by Swimming Pool.” It seems that
engineers have not yet solved the problem.of how
to fix the bottom of the pool. At Davdson, the prob-
lem did not get that far. We never got the pool.
Peculiar thing, how elusive these swimming pools
are! Any blissful anticipations, of swimming at Da-
vidson, were rudely shattered at chapel the other
morn. (And again . .. can our seniors take it???)

CURRENT EVENTS IN
NATURE

By BILL WARD

In front of Dr. Harding’s residence there is an in-
teresting bird-constructed apartment house, contain-
ing two stories. Two Flickers were the carpenters,
but they) have rented the upper flat to a pair of
Starlings.

It is a typical apartment house, the two families
living like dogs and cats. The young Starlings are
always squalling, and Mrs. Flicker never has peace
while she is trying to incubate her eggs.

A Flicker normally lays only seven or eight eggs in.
aclutch. But if these are removed, she will continue
to lay in the hopes of having a full clutch. Thus,
when an egg’ was removed each day from the nest,

WHO, ME?

NEWS DIGEST

Hunter Pharr, when asked by Colonel Little, in-

specting the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, what he in-
tended to be when he grew up, replied that he didn’t
know. The inspector asked again, and Hunter, being
pressed, answered, “A man, sir.”
It is interesting to note at this time the origin of
pretzels. I very much fear that their creators would
raise their hands in holy horror to see pretzels rung
on sticks set up by steins on small tables covered
with red-and-white-checked cloths, and other places
for that matter. Incidentally, the tasty bit of cake
dates back to the middle ages. It was then the cus-
tom for the monks to give cookies to children as a
reward for having said prayers correctly. The pretzel
is symbolical of the hands folded in prayer. Tempus
fugit, etc.

.Bob Matthews predicted a few days ago that
“Stormy Weather” would be the hit of May, but if
I believe all the reports I hear from the first floor
of West from such enthusiasts as Blanton Little and
Sam Milton, it’s the ,hit of April.

May I suggest to some interior decorator that he
will find a prolific field for expansion at the Pika
house. (The same applies to those of. the medical
profession.) That is if the practice of playing buckity-
buck indoors continues, for in the last week those
who only watched have sustained many minor in-
juries. I’m told it requires a squad of ten men to
rake up the loose appendiges after an encounter. The
Pikas are a playful lot; and all this reminds me of
the predicament of Rotund Crisco Smallridge, who in
a game of follow-the-leader, was marooned on front
gable of the roof of his fraternity house and re-
mained there in that precarious perch for well over
a half-hour, unable to remember how he got up;
to fly away; or to defy the law of Newton,

Saturday evening last fotind quite a few of the
Davidson students at the local high school to see the
coming Bernhardts. However, Sam Thompson as
Fanny Brown, fast and fascinating, ran the ladies of
the cast a close second and the men into hysteria.

Mark Symons seems to be declniing rather than
progressing in his career, materialisticallyspeaking.
Three years ago the Royal Academy accepted a paint-

ing of the crucifixion from him which had been dotrer+-

in a modern setting, But in 1931 and again this year
it-_refused other pictures of his of the modern type.
The most lately rejected one was of the last supper
in which both the host and guests wore dinner clothes
of today.

“The Importance of Being Earnest” progresses.
The cast, including Mrs. Erwin, Misses Steel, Ar-
buckle, and Hood, has begun work on the third act.
The finished product will be seen about the middle
of May. The play itself is indeed clever, and the
combination of it and the lights who are working
with it should render in the end that which will be
a living example of our being fearfully and wonder-
fully made.

Although few people know it, Edward McNair is
one of the national officers of the national classical
fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, Last week-end he at-

tended the national convention at, St. Louis.

At the senior smoker Wednesday night, Ed was
elected permanent secretary for the class of ’33, He'll
certainly see to it that records are kept and. notices
are posted. In my opinion (ut opinor to Ed) the
choic was a wise one.

It excites my. curiosity to see William Bee Ravenel,
3rd, wearing green neckties and shirts, as green
stands for hope. But I wonder more about William
Riley Cely, Jr., in his blue ones, as Blue stands for
hope satisfied.

The letter between “r” and “t” on thith typewrtier
hath juth been broken, and I thant be able to write
anymore of thith thuff, which ith probably very good
for me and for the readerth, poor thingth. During
the coming week, however, I intend to get a new
“eth” or a new typewriter. Either ith far too ex-
penthive for me.

one ambitious Flicker was induced to lay 71 eggs in
the space of 72 days.

The Joe E. Brown among Davidson birds seems
to be the Whip-Poor-Will. As long as his mouth is
shut he is a normal looking bird, about the size of
a Robin. But when he opens it, a cavity two inches
across yawns before us. No wonder his scientific
name is Antrostomus, which is Greek for “Cave
Mouth.”

Chimney Swifts are queer looking birds that are
common at Davidson now. Late in the afternoon
they can be seen shooting over the campus like black
bows-and arrows, Their headquarters is in the chim-
ney of the college heating plant, and they roost and
nest there in great numbers.

It was long thought that these birds flapped
their two wings alternately when flying, but slow
motion photography has proven the statement to be
untrue.

The Chimney Swift is nota “swallow,” but is of
the same order as the, Whip-Poor-Will and the Hum-
mingbird. The name “Swift” is well chosen, for the
family contains the fastest flying birds on the earth.

*

IT WAS thought that the passage of the beer bill
would help to eliminate racketeering and crime, but
such has not been the case. The new form of vice
which legal beer has pushed to a high peak is hi-
jacking.

Trucks of beer from the manufacturers are sud-
denly held up by beer bandits and their contents con-
fiscated to be used by another gang. The pastime
has become quite popular and, in the larger cities,
threatens to continue the gang wars which were the
curse of prohibition. The worst feature of the whole
thing is that nothing practical can be done about it.

THE OLD question of silver coinage has come back
strongly during the last few days so the Senate finally
passed the bill providing for the free coinage of silver.

They are driving at cheaper money, the goal of all
inflationists. It was for this same principle that Mr.
Bryan, in 1896, made his famous “Cross of Gold”
speech when he was a candidate for President on the
silver ticket. #

The Republicans fought him to a standstill in this
campaign age issue has been relatively quiet ever
since untif the recent abandonment of the gold stand-
ard brought it again to the front. The idea in the
minds of its proponents is that the value of money
is directly inverse to its quantity and so, double the
amount of money and prices will double also.

THE MUMBLE and mutter of the conference in
Washington is a taste of what all international con-
ferences must be like. Representatives from many
countries come and discuss the weather, the depres-
sion, and the tariff, and then go home with nothing
but a memory of Uncle Sam’s hospitality. At least
President Roosevelt will hear a lot of good excuses
from our debtors if no other good is done and their
faces should give us an inkling of their, attitudes,

WITH A VOTE of 64 to~20, the Senate last Friday

. Passed the farm aid-inflation bill which confers some

sweeping powers on the shoulders of the President.
It allows F. D. R. to expand credit and currency by
at least $6,000,000,000; and places equally as broad au-
thority in Secretary Wallace to further raise the
prices of basic farm commodities through the levying
of licensing fees and processing taxes, and through
controlled production.

The controlled inflation contemplates first an ex-
pansioit 6f~$3;000,000;/000 of credit through the open
market purchases of government securities from Fed-
eral Reserve Banks. If this measure is not adequate
to get money into circulation and to raise prices the
President«will have several other doors open to him
in his attempt to benefit the farmer.

The Federal Reserve Board will use its power pru-
dently and regulate the expansion by increasing or
decreasing the reserve balances against deposit.

The passage of this bill was one of the most drastic
steps ever taken by the United States Government
and it promises to have far-reaching and unprece-
dented results. However, it looks as if Roosevelt is
on the right path, so go to it. *

SENATOR BORAH, Republican of Idaho, seems
to have quite a.distaste for the actions of Great Brit-
tain and France toward the United States. He de-
clares that these two countries “seem to be going for-
ward in a determined effort to manipulate the cur-
rency so as to gain a decided advantage over the
U.S. in trade.”

In his recent address on war debts he also asserted
that these countries “are leaving out of their budgets
the payment of the debts, are keeping in their budgets
the usual expenditures for armaments, and, in some
instances, increasing the amounts.”

The venerable statesman became quite vindictive
and, whether his assertions are true or not, it yet
remains to be seen if these nations will take the ac-
cusation which has \been made of them.

THE GOVERNMENT of Cuba, which is periodical-
ly threatened with new revolts and uprisings, has
gained considerable proficiency in quelling them. A
small outbreak, in which seven rebels, two soldiers,
and the chief of police of the town of San Luis were
killed, occurred last Saturday but the government
troops soon suppressed the outlaws,

* CL: Yama

MR. NORMAN H. DAVIS, general ambassador to
Europe, at the League of Nations meetings, has opin-
ions of his own. Germany asks for restoration of
equality in arms and all national defense within five
years. Mr. Davis is alarmed at the new course of
events.

Besides, what right have we to meddle in the af-
fairs of France and Germany? The world has al-
ready suffered from too much minding of other na-
tions’ businesses. We would do better if we stayed
in our own backyard and allowed France and Ger-

many, the aggressors, to settle this thing between
themselves.

“THE MacNEIL thermo-electric sextant’ can meas-

- ure the position of the sun through thick cbscuring

clouds; it can feel heat from somestacks six miles
away. This instrument will detect the heat of a
man’s body at a mile, a horse’s at two miles. Com-
mander MacNeil is now experimenting with locating
airplanes flying above the clouds at night by feeling
the heat from their exhausts. Smoke screens will be
useless in future Wars and the detection of icebergs
will be equally sure with this device.”—Industrial
Bulletin.

Some of the arrivals from the south last week were:
Indigo Buntings, Wood Pewees, Orchard Orioles,
Kingbirds, Blue Grosbeaks, and Summer Tanagers.
