——

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

3

Proposed Change Would
Affect Freshman Voting

Amendment is Tabled and Will be
Voted on Soon

At a recent meeting of the student , body
there was proposed a change in thetonsti-
tution with reference to voting in the stu-
dent elections. The newly proposed amend-
ment, if passed, will prevent freshmen from
voting before the installation service which
is held around April 24 each year.

This amendment will effect fairer elec-
tions because generally freshmen do not
know the men for whom they are voting.
It will help prevent the election of athletes
and other men who are thrown before the
eyes of the student body constantly and who
may not necessarily be the best men for the
office.

The vote of the Freshman class usually
turns the elections and. for this reason it
has been thought advisable to prevent them
from voting until the major offices have
been decided,

The amendment is now on the table and
it is to be voted on the twenty-ninth of this
month. The proposed amendment of Article
I, Section 3, Davidson College Constitution,
shall read as follows:

There shal! be a student council which
shall be composed of fourteen members, in-
cluding the president of the student body,
the presidents of the respective classes, and
ten councilmen of whom five shall come
from the Seniar class, three from the Jun-
icr class, and two from the Sophomore class.
There shall be no president of the Fresh-
man class. Freshmen become members of
the student body with full right to* vote,
immediately upon the installation of the
president of their rising Sophomore: class.

Visitors Entertained

By T. W. Lingle Family

Social Fraternities

Kappa Sig’s Hold Elections

Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity
recently elected the following men to head
their chapter for the new year: J. Mack
Holland, president; C. M. Rives, vice-presi-
dent; W. T. Thompson, second vice-presi-
dent; W. B. Ravenel, treasurer; Treadway
Purnell, secretary. Mack Holland
Pan-Hellenic representative.

is also

Pi Kappa Phi’s Have Party

On Wednesday night, April 12, members
of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity held an in-
formal pre-holiday party at their house. A
goodly number of girls were in attendance.
Delicious refreshments were served.

The following girls were’ present: Martha
Matheson, Frances Matheson, Susanne Sim-
mons, Kitty Van Echop, Jean Wheeler, Jane
Fallaw, Eleanor Killick, Mildred Young,
Margaret Gilliam, Martha Ware Pitts, Lib
Sutton, Charlotte; Louise Melchor, Moores-
ville; Sara Withers, Davidson; Rachel Por-
terfield, Wytheville, Va.

T. U. O.’s Complete Elections

The following men were elected to head
the T. U.. O. fraterntiy for the next year:
Miller Cochran, president; Frank Tucker,
vice-president; Hugh Ray, secretary; John
Steele, corresponding secretary; A. S. Gate-

wood, treasurer. Miller Cochran is Pan-
Hellenic representative.
The way to increase a vocabulary is very

like the way to increase your personal ac-
quaintance, Put yourself in the way of meet-
ing as many different phases of expression
as you can, read widely, talk with clever peo-
ple, and whenever you ceme across a new
word or expression train yourself so far as
possible to-understand ‘it, just as you would
train yourself to classify and remember peo-
bad,

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

Installation of new Student Councilmen
was held in chapel on April 18. Bob Kell,
the new president of the Student Council,
was installed, along with Monroe Gilmour,
Mac King, Bill Parnell, Bill Bailey, Fred
Ratchford, John Welton, Leb Sand, Tom
Brohard; John « McTurris, Carl Pritchett,
Pete Glidernell, Thad Brock, a Dan
Goodykeentz,-who- compose the Council.

The appointments
and Cranks”
newly
book.

to the statf of “Quips
were made by J. R. Covington,
elected editor-in-chief of the year-

Raymond Lake was selected judge of the
Court of Control, and Bill Regon, Hub Knox,
Tom Hill, Heath Whittle, Jim Haurret, Dean
Rusk, and Hub Covington were selected
members of the court.
Davidson netmen, in the North Carolina
State College Tournament, were interrupted
by inclement weather. John G. Roddy, play-
ing number one for Davidson, reached the
semi-finals before wet weather forced the
play to Dick Carr and his partner,
Koddy, also reached the semi-finals in the
doubles.

stop.

Captain N. G. Pritchett was chosen as ath-
letic instructor of Davidson College. Captain
Pritchett was formerly attached to the physi-
cal training department of Wake Forest.

.

Professors Beaty, Davis, and Goldiere will
return to Davidson from universi-
ties where they have been studying to re-
sume their activities here. Professors Crow
and Schenck are planning to attend uni-
versities in the -fall.

various

Wildeats invaded Virginia
to win from Guilford College, twa

Davidson
April 2

on

games from Lynchburg College,, and one
from V. P. I.

The freshman track team defeated the
Bingham Military Institute by the score of
72 to 41. Neal of Davidson was high scorer
with 15 points, and McCall was a close sec-
ond with 12 points.

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary
military fraternity, issued bids to thirteen|

men of the military department.

“Pioneer

a new book by Prof. C. K. Brow has. re-
cently been released by the publighets:
G, C. Hill, Richmond, Va., was elected!

secretary and treasurer of the rising Senior|
class. Those nominated for the office were:
Hill, Lake, Causey, and Ratchford.

A college yell contest is being sponsored

by the Davidsonian, Prizes will be offered
for the best yells.
TEN YEARS AGO
Ss. D. Elkens, of Davidson, was elected

president of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press in a meeting held at
College last week.

Association
Queens

Gaison was elected president of

Elias S,
the Athletic Association for next year, and
Jim Hendrix was elected vice-president,

while Flake Laird won out in the race for
the office of secretary.

New Watts and the south wing of Cham-
\bers are to be built during the coming sum-
mer.

Railroading in North Carolina,’|

jor sports at a recent meeting of the Ath-
letic Association.

Editor-in-Chief W. M.. Heston has an-
jnounced his staff for the ’24 “Quips and
Cranks.”

President Varhees, president of the United
| Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary
jfraternity, was a visitor on the Davidson
| campus last week.

‘New Theory of Energy.
Advanced by Dr. Sacks

|
|
|

Ann Arbor, Mich.—(IP)—What is it that
lgives you that extra bit of energy for split-
}second action in time of emergency?

According to Dr. Jacob Sacks of the de-
| cattinedtt of pharmacology at the University
lof Michigan, it comes from the quick chem-
lical breakdown so-called animal starch
jstored in the muscles.

This fast breakdown, similar
to the choking of an automobile to give it
that quick response before the vacuum tank
and carburetor—the lungs and heart in man
-buckle down to their job.

Normally, he the muscles do their
work by burning lactic acid with the oxygen
in the

But occasionally the body must move very
quickly during a short period of time, re-
quiring energy than oxygen can be
carried to the muscle tissues. In these eiier-
Dr. glycogen, or animal
starch stored in the muscles, undergoes two
quick chemical breakdowns.

One gives lactic acid in large amounts. An-

of

he says, is

says,

blood stream.

faster

gencies, Sacks says,

The Clemson track team romped on the}jother gives hesosephosphate, a glycogen and
Wildcats last week to the tune of 78% to|phosphorous compound, he = says. Energy
3314, sufficient for short but violent exertion is

the by-product of both processes. But if

The wrestling team elected Sindawood |the extra stress keeps up, the heart has time
captain for next year. Selser was chosen|to increase its rate of beating and to pump

as manager of the grapplers.

The varsity letter was standardized in ma-

more oxygen-charged blood to the muscles
that they can keep on with the work

imposed on them.

so

During the Easter holidays, Dr. T. W.
Lingle had as his guests Dr. and Mts. R, C,|Pl€ you meet, gentle and vulgar, good,
Garth and their daughter, Clara. Mrs.|°° indifferent—Barret ‘Wendell.
Garth is the daughter of Dr. Lingle. Dr.
Garth has returned to his work—in—New

“York where he is a teacher of physics in
Brooklyn College. His wife and daughter
are remaining with Dr. Lingle until May.

During a part of the holidays, Dr. T. W.

Lingle and President Lingle had as their
guests Rev. Dr. J. W. Lynch, Mrs. Lynch,
and Dr. Reid. Dr. Lynch, a cousin of the
Lingles, is professor of Bible at Wake For-
est College, and Dr. Reid is professor of
Philosophy and Psychology at the same
school.

Dr. T. W. Lingle“is to give the commence-
ment address at Candor, N. C., Friday eve-

ning, May 5.

Delta Phi Alpha Has
Plans for New Club

A business meeting was held, by Delta
Phi Alpha in the Scabbard and Blade.room
on April 4. The roll was answered by quo-
tations, followed by the reading of the min-
utes,

Paul Brown reported for the committee
appointed to develop plans for the organ-
ization of a Junior German Club. A sug-
gestion was made that it be named “Deutsche
Verein,” and this proposal, together with
eleven constitutional articles suggested by
the committee, was passed unanimously. It
was generally agreed the issuing of bids
to seniors by “Deutsche Verein” would not
be worth while.

Those voted on for membership in the pro-
posed society were W. M. Brown, J. M.
Johnson, W. B. Ravenel, G. R. Wood, and
H. T. Morris, and all these men were ac-
cepted. The suggestion was made that fac-
ulty membership be somewhat broadened.
Action on this was postponed.

Speeches Are Given by
Pres. Walter L. Lingle

On Friday, April 21, President Lingle
spoke to the North Carolina Division of As-
sociation of University’ Women of America
in the Sir Walter Hotel at Raleigh, The
subject for his talk was: “What the Uni-
versity Ought to Do for the University
Woman, and What the University Woman
Ought to Do for Her Community.” This
organization is very large and has a wide

influence. There were representatives of
university women there from all over the
state.

Last Sunday, April 23, President Lingle
preached two commencement sermons. In
the morning he spoke to the Cornelius High
School graduating class at _Mount Zion
Church on the subject: “Shall I Sell My
Soul?” In the afternoon he journeyed to
Huntersville and there spoke to the gradu-
ating ¢lass in the high school auditorium
n: “How Shall I Invest My Life?”

Next Saturday Dr. Lingle will speak to the
public school teachers of Iredell County at
Statesville.

© 1933, Liccett & Myers Tosacco Co,

TURKISH TOBACCO

comes to this country in bales.
The leaves are small and
tightly packed. Each bale
contains about 40,000 leaves.

rich and aromatic.

Four certain spots are famous for the quality
of their Turkish tobacco — Xanthi and Cavalla in

Chesterfie

an entirely new tobacco—small in size, but very

DOMESTIC TOBACCO
is stored in huge wooden

hogsheads, Each hogshead
contains about 1000 pounds
of tobacco.

get the Turkish

right amount, w

avor hs = 2 possesses alone

Early in the 17th century, tobacco seed
from America was taken to Turkey. Different soil,
different climate, different temperatures night
and day, and different farming methods produced

Greece; Samsoun and Smyrna in Turkey. And it
is principally from these places that our buyers

for Chesterfield.

These Turkish tobaccos are blended, in just the

ith Domestic tobaccos. It is this

blending and cross-blending of just the right amount

of Turkish and

a.

Domestic tobaccos which gives

Chesterfield a flavor that neither possesses alone.

|

the cigarette thats Muldder

igarette that. Lastes Beller |
