THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933"

—

The Davidsonian

Published, Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

i

‘FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: fr copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

10 scents

Articles for publication must be im.the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m:, Monday.
ZDWARD O. GUERRANT =~ Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON n Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF NN
L. W. CLARDY.... Managing Editor
A, F, SCHENCK... Managing Editor
W. M THOMPSON Managing Fditor.
ACK WILLIAMS. Managing Editor >
oh CASALL Athletic Editor
. EB. LAKE.......... Exch Editor
. W. WHITE F Editor
S. GAMBL -Feature Editor
}; T. GOODYKOONTZ...-...-..------------- Contributing Editor
. A. HANCOCK .-.--.---Review Editor
D D. McBRYDE A Editor
R. L. McCALLIE. A Editor
C. F. MYERS. A Editor
B. B, SUGG A te Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. {ONNGON Assi B Manag
A. H. MANSON A t B Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR icitor
H. B, DANIEL olicitor
f; M. DOUGLAS. icitor
, L. GREEN_-- icitor
W._P. SPRUNT ---Solicitor
. R. TAYLOR licitor
sf A. C. WADSWORTH------- icitor
. E, WHI i
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;
LAKE. President

Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

E.

as

EWIS GREGG
M

. W. ALDERMAN qu McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN . L. McILWINEN
G, E. BAILY E, F, McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W..C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL

. E, BOYD E, L. POWE

. H, COVINGTON S. P, PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
i B, FICKLIN ' B. L, ROSE

. L. GULLE' T, H, SUTTON
{ACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C. HENRY K, D. WEEKS
k A. TE W. R. WARD

. E, LORRAINE W. T. THOM
T. F. D i W. WHITE
W. F . PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 22, 1933

I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord; be-
seech you that ye walk worthy of the voca-
tion wherewith ye are called, with all lowli-
ness and meekness, with long-suffering for-
bearing one another in love, endeavoring to
keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of
peace.—Ephesians 4:1, 2, 3.

ec

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Dr. Chandler, the visiting Congregationalist min-
ister from Connecticut, gave some interesting side-
lights on two vital issues of the day, Church Unity
and Pacifism, in his sermon Sunday morning.

—D

Dr. Chandler, in his sermon, said in regard to for-

eign missionary work that the Oriental mind is con- .

fused at the various creeds, beliefs, doctrines, and
rituals of the different churches, thereby emphasiz-
ing unity: Later in an interview, he said that the

Oriental does not know. which to believe, and worse ©

than that, the more intellectual Orientals are laugh-
ing at our differences. “We seem to miss the point
of all missionary work; for it is not the expounding
of the Bible that they need but direct personal serv-
ice to meet their spiritual and material needs. Chris-
tianity is a direct service to a human need. We must
disregard creeds, rituals, etc., and unite in meeting
their personal needs, if foreign missions is to make
a real headway,” Dr. Chandler said.
PRS TED
In regard to Pacifism, Dr. Chandler spoke in his
sermon of having heard, during the war, a minister
say from his pulpit that Christ was not a pacifist,
and tried to prove it. Later, in the interview, Dr.
Chandler discussed the effect of American “Pacifism”
on the Orientals. He said that they could not under-
stand why the Christian nations participated in the
World War, and why each claimed Christ was on
their side. Moreover, the Oriental thinks we are
money-crazy. %
PSR » (asec eneantay
These illuminating sidelights are indeed thought-
provoking and important to us today. They call for
contemplation and action.
RARUSEEN » SA AOUROE TN
Dr. W. E. Davis made a splendid talk at vespers.
It was highly informative, practical, and challeng-
ing.
Se ee
Technocracy, World Peace, Tariff, Politics, Social-
ism, Communism—words that scare jus in their prob-
lematic. meanings, can thrill us even more if we chal-
lenge them and do our best, according to Christ’s
teaching to solve the questions involved in each
term.
ease » Yantai Se a
_ The prospect of Junior Speaking being only ten
days away sounds good. Youth likes to frolic about
a bit after a winter’s hibernation.
aS I
Senator Carter Glass, of Virginia, chose to stay
in the Senate and fight currency inflation. In this,
coupled with the viewpoint that the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation is the first American dole, with
others to follow, we believe that he is perhaps right
in. fighting these things in the Senate. We need -a
‘strong conservative student of finance and there is
no one as capable as this Virginia statesman.

KNOWLEDGE -

Many years ago that famous philosopher,
Socrates, said that Knowledge is Virtue, and
Virtue is Knowledge. According to this the-
ory Davidson College students should be a
very moral group, since, possessing the one,
they will naturally be graced with the other.

However, two fallacies exist here. In the
first place, it is doubtful whether knowledge
is virtue; and in the second place, it is doubt-
ful whether Davidson students are sufficient-
ly endowed with knowledge in the first place.

Davidson College, to be sure, can-do little
to correlate knowledge with virtue. But what
it can do is to teach this knowledge, and teach
it in such a way as to be easily applicable.

_ Then, for those who still lack virtue, the col-

Nege is not responsible. For “to him that
knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him
it issin.”

The theme for this editorial is to be found
in the paragraph above: “What it can do is
to teach this knowledge and teach it in such
a way as to mhake it easily applicable.” Edu-
cators have known for a number of years that
the best way to téach a science is to make it
concrete by means of experiments. It would
surely be an inadequate chemistry or physics
course that did not havéaboratory work in
conjunction with the classroom lectures. The
reason for this is obvious: We, have difficulty
forming mental pictures of abstract, indefi-
nite laws; whereas if we work out these
laws with concrete materials, and see their
application, they become real to us and are
easily comprehended.

In the past number of years this theory of
learning by doing has become increasingly
popular. At the present time in many of the
larger universities accounting classes have
laboratory work just as do physics classes,
economics classes have problems to work out,
psychology students have cases to study, and
so forth.

Since a thing becomes real to us only as
we experience it for ourselves; it is obvious
that a great bulk of laws and principles, even
though they be embellished with striking il-
lustrations, can mean but little to the aver-
age student.

This year the students of Sociology here
at Davidson are having the opportunity of
doing a bit of relief work for the county, and
in this way are discovering at first hand the
conditions and results of conditions studied
in class. With this opportunity for observing
and coping with situations as they exist, So-
ciology will mean far more to the student
than would otherwise have been. possible.

Furthermore, for several years the class
in Abnormal Psychology has taken one trip
each year to Morganton in order to see actual
cases and their treatments.

utmost importance to the student, if he is to
receive the full value from his education. A
long step has been made in the right direc-
tion. But it is only as these field trips are
co-ordinated with classroom-lectures that a
college education will mean what it should in
are a- man’s understanding of his
world.

w. M. THOMPSON.

WHY COLLEGE?

Such a topic appearing on the editorial
page of a college newspaper may seem rather
. queer. Its appearance in a high school organ
would seem much more natural, for surely
students already enrolled in college should
know just exactly why they came to college.
Of course many may differ in their thoughts
or just what is the real purpose of coming
to an institution like Davidson or any. other
for four years, and probably these numerous
opinions are justified. In the past the idea of
many who attended college and most of those
who didn’t attend college was that the chief
purpose was-to fit one for the making of
money, or phrasing it differently, the purpose
was to teach young men and women how to
succeed when they entered the business or
professional world. The consensus of opinion
seems to be changing lately. Undoubtedly
there are some who still think that any per-
sun possessing a college degree will make a
success in the world, but they are in the mi-
nority. Of course all reports show that. col-
lege graduates do earn more money than
others, but this fact does not prove that
this capacity to amass money’ was acquired
by their attendance at some college or uni-
versity. It may mean merely that the persons
with the most nee geno. naturally want to
obtain-as good an education as possible, and
no one can say that they would not have at-
tained just as great amount of success if
they had not gone to college. Many educa-
tors at the present time are attempting to
discourage the idea that a college is a place
to train the youth of the nation how to make
a living, but to build up the conception that
college is a place in which we should learn
better how to live.

It seems to us that this should be the
main purpose of any institution of higher
learning. All of us will have leisure time, and
what more beneficial ‘service could a college

or university perform than to teach us’ how

Applied _instruction such_as this is of the. |_

I SAW

WORLD SPECTATOR

THE JUNIOR’S FOXY FRIENDS

Full many a quiet, modest man,
About this time of year,
Perceives by sudden evidence”
His popularity’s immense,
And he’s a man of consequence

- With girls both far and near.

The P. O. brings him varied styles

In letter-writing fads;

Where once he found a lonesome “snooze”
He now sees dainty grays and blues,
And envelopes of other hues

(And they’re not tailor’s ads).

What cordial notes from many maids,
Disdainful once; are his!

He’s asked to visit Converse: *

And Queens with flattéring frequency,
With bids from Sweetbriar, too; dear me,
How popular he is!

Perhaps at first these things seem strange
But really it’s quite clear.
There is no cause for wonderment
About the goal of their intent.
The reason’s very evident,
Junior Speaking is near.
R. W.

. a number. of students rush down to buy the
latest jig-saw puzzle. Nearly everybody is fascinat-
ed by this craze, not excepting the faculty.

. smoke belching forth from a window on the
third floor of West one day last week. Everybody
was all excited and you have never seen such tear-
ing around. A mattress caught on fire and the whole
hall helped to put the fire out.

.. Washington Merry-Go-Round at the local
cinema. They make a picture out of any book these
days. Somebody commented, “It won’t be long until
we'll see Van Loon’s Geography enacted with thrills
packed in every reel.”

. .. @ Senior write the father of his girl saying
that he was a suitor for her hand and wanted to
know if he would be acceptable as a son-in-law.
You would be more than surprised to know who it is.

. .. Chick Gatewood taking Billy Shewmate’s pic-
ture out by the side of East Dorm Friday after-
noon, He made several and Billy got so tired of
standing in the sun. But Chick wouldn’t snap it un-
til everything was just right and kept Billy wait-
ing in spite of his earnest pleadings.

. about 20 pretty girls fluttering around the
campus bubbling ovér with excitement—last—Friday.
afternoon.’ They had just arrived from Converse and
presented a French play in a most commendable way
that night.

. .. the smiling countenance of our own Charlie
Pearce beaming from the sports page of the Char-
lotte Observer Thursday morning. He and Bill Good-
son were both declared winners in the Carolinas
Flaming Five contest. This means they were se-
lected as the outstanding sports figures of the Car-
olinas and that’s somethin’.

This completes the low down for the past week.
It has been written in an inimitable style which
partly accounts for its broad popularity. In just
three more issues you will probably know who Tip
Poff is. Several parties are suspected but cross my
heart nobody but the. editor himself really knows.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E, LAKE

ial _-» Vulane_ ee
The Tulane Hullabaloo put out a burlesqué num-
ber for the February 10th issue. It is pretty fair.

Washington and Lee
The boys at W. & L. must be pretty much power.
We are told that each student receives about 366

to make the best use of our spare time? The
technical and professional schools serve a
definite purpose and their place cannot be
taken by anything else, but their field should

not be. extended to undergraduate work. °

Four or five years ago not many persons
mentioned the cultural value of a college edu-
cation. Everyone’was making money then,
and few had any spare time in which to live
any sort of a contemplative life. Because of
subsequent economic conditions, millions of
people have spare time now in the greatest
abundance. Of course conditions now are ab-
normal, at least we still have hope for bet-
ter times economically, but few wish for such
times again as we enjoyed in 1928-1929. With
the prospect of much more spare time in
the future than we have had in the past,
the problem of leisure time looms important.
It is our guess that colleges in the future will
spend more time on cultural subjects which
give the student a basis on which to build
his life, rather than many trivial subjects
which, have ‘characterized the curriculums of
some of our leading colleges and universities,

President-elect Roosevelt has recently been given
a bullet-proof speaker’s desk for broadcasting. This
gift, by the Columbia Broadcasting System, is lined
with steel plates to protect Roosevelt from any
‘more attempts at his life. The desk offers protec-
tion to the speaker, shielding his body from below
the waist to several inches above his shoulders. The
aesk is equipped with four radio microphone outlets

__and_a—stand_and_lamp-_for manuscripts. The desk

was designed under the partial guidance of the
members of the secret service.

a

James M. Mead, chairman of the House Commit-
tee on the Post Office and Post Roads, predicts a
return to the two-cent postal rate in a few more
months. He said that the three-cent rate has re-
duced the volume of mail, while the equipment, car-
riers, and mail cars have been forced to continue
on the old plan. Mr. Mead stated that about sev-
enty-five million dollars worth of additional mail
could be carried without the addition of any equip-
ment. At the present three-cent rate, a great many
mail cars, carriers, and post offices are running half-
empty. The cost of operation continues, but the vol-
ume of mail is smaller. Mr. Mead predicts that the
next Congress will revise the postal rates to return
to the two-cent rate. He predicts a return to the
two-cent rate by July first.

The question of whether the powers of the world
should embargo arms shipments to China and Japan
is a frequently discussed topic. Great Britain has
become more: and more in favor of putting an em-
bargo on arms to both nations. Some think that
since China is not as well equipped, she should be
allowed to receive arms. When this partiality en-
ters, complications arise. How to get the arms to
China without letting Japan capture them is a ques-
tio. The idea of arms limitation to Japan would
mean that the nations would be forcing the manu-
facturers to turn down one market for another one
which probably is not as good. The best plan would
be a complete embargo by all the nations on arms
to both China and Japan. This would soon bring
the war to a close,-for~ without imported supplies,
Japan could not continue the war. Recently she made
an appeal to Chile to organize her nitrate producers
so that Japan could get nitrate for explosives. If
this supply were shut off, together with the possi-
bility of reshipment from other countries, Japan
and China would soon have to come to terms.

Of course there is some reason in the idea of
forbidding Japan to import arms, meanwhile sell-
ing arms to China. It would give both countries an
even chance and give China a chance to win back
the territory taken from her by Japan. Complete
freedom. to sell, such as_is-in force at present, only
permits Japan to go even farther in the conquest and
bullying of China. From the viewpoint of the indi-
vidual it is the correct way, because it allows great-
er freedom of enterprise. From the standpoint. of

kenefit to society in general, complete embargo is
the better method.

Mr. W. H. Moorfield, president of the Manchester,
England, Coal Exchange, recently described a the-
ory which, if used, would convert coal mines into
oil wells. The process consists of forcing hot hydro-
gen under high pressure into the mines and pump-
ing the resulting oil to the surface. Whether this
method would. be practical, and whether the reac-
tion would require accurate adjustments is not
known. Coal, consisting mostly of carbon, would be
changed into oil, a hydrocarbon, by the addition of
hydrogen in the right proportions. Whether a catyl-
ist would be required, or whether any special ap-

paratus would be too costly for ordinary use is not
known.

Mr. Léon Maxwell, of the faculty of Newcomb
College at New Orleans, holds to the theory that
jazz is the American folk song. The United States
is still too young to have a regular folk song, so
jazz must be considered the folk song according
to the definition of one. The usual definition is a song
that everybody knows. “Many people try to class
negro spirituals, cowboy and mountaineer songs as
folk songs, but since only that particular group
knows the songs, they could hardly be classed as
folk songs. On the other hand there are a great
many people who do not like jazz, and who know
nothing at all about it. It is probable that this is
quite a large per cent, but exactly what percentage
of the population must like a style of song and
know the songs of that type to make it a folk song
is hard to determine. It may be that the United
States, spread over such a wide area, has no single

folk song, but many types of folk songs, each one
in its own locality.

letters during the nine months of the school year.

We would be thankful to get that many during the
four years up here.

Georgia Tech

The fraternities at Tech have a very good idea
for friendship among fraternities. About this time
of every year the several classes in each fraternity

will entertain their respective classes in other fra-
ternities.
