THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

%

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

FOUNDED BY THE CLA$S-OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION

. RATES:
legiate year.

Ten cents

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, |

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication

must be signed.

ODI CASALI____.
W. T. JOHNSON

qo-s-~--------Editor
065s sacammancdncdcidecednesscctaun Business Manager

EDITORIAL, STAFF

GiL,, GULLETTE. 22 a Managing Editor
a J McPH AIL. Managing Editor
ee ROSE____- Managing Editor
Gre Managing Editor
i hs eM thts
» E. Sports Editor
RAWLIN ditorial Writer
ui a --Feature Editor
shes Feature Editor
Be Feature Editor
oe) Feature Editor
My St gesuscct Featuge Editor
DN: | » JR. paney ety el ls
L, + CLARDY.. Associate Editor
A, F. SC HENCK- --Associate Editor
W. _M. THOME SO? Associate Editor
JACKS WIGGTAMS)o J Riisoiststvs eee esunnaa Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

sistant Business Manager

stant Business Manager
sistant Business Manager
ssistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

Learning without thought is labor Tost:
without learning is the death of the mind,
—Confucius.

thought

GRASS

The title of this article suggests a’ time-worn
topic and foot-worn subject and both conclusions
are correct. Walking upon portions of our cam-
~pus, turfedwith-some unlucky member of the
grass family has given rise to such impediments
as fences, stakes, and strands of wire, and failing
to halt the student body by physical means our
better natures have been appealed to with talks
ofa reasoning sort. Still the herd thunders across
that portion of the greensward between Cham-
bers and the Post Office at the end of chapel
exercises,

It is customary in most parts of the country
to keep live-stock on their proper grazing
grounds by means of fences. When we were
babies we were kept out of the fire, in the crib
and out of the yard by various guards, exten-
sion doors, railings, etc. Now the college man
possessing more experience than when he was.a
baby and being endowed with an intellect supe-
Tior to cattle is well able to defeat the purpose
of a mere barrier such as a wire fence, and has
done so with all the skill inherent to a raiding
party during the World War. =

Why do we persistently endeavor to spoil the
appearance of one of the most beautiful sections
of our campus? The answer that will immedi-
ately come from a majority of students will be,
“l’ve got a next period class and am in a hurry ;
it’s so much shorter.” Is it so much shorter?
No, there is an approximate diversity of thirty-
three steps. If calculations are made, based on
the Army cadence of one hundred and twenty-
eight steps per minute, we find that everyone
who takes the diagonal way across the campus
instead of the Chemistry Laboratory-Post Office
route makes a saving in time of about fifteen
and fifty-one one-hundredths_ seconds or a quar-
ter of a minute. Imagine college men who are
probably the greatest time-wasters in the world
darting across campus with an all-consuming de-
Sire to save a quarter of a minute!

Then exactly why do we prefer the cross-cam-
pus thoroughfare? While studying Plane Geom-
etry in High School we learned that a straight
line is the shortest distance between two points.
Now that ancient axiom again comes to the
front in aiding us to solve our love for the cross-
campus route.
ical motive to be considered, the latter being the
most important! Mathematically it is slightly
shorter, but psychologically there is a tremend-
ous contrast. We leave Chambers and go
straight to the Post Office. No turns, curves, or
bends to make_us-deviate-from-the-direction- of
our objective, and so we let a mere psycholog-
ical impulse guide our steps regardless of the
inappreciable difference in ‘time and distance.
Haven’t we trained our minds well enough to
conquer this? ; ’

We do not believe that more than two out. of
ten men take the short cut for the time saved
{quarter of a minute), They choose it from
the psychological aspect given above and per-
haps for several other considerations which may
be combined. There is more space. Four fel-
lows can walk side by side across the’ grass;
you can glue your eyes on a letter and have no
fear of colliding with someone; it is less con-
gested. Perhaps it is easier walking on the
grass and perhaps sophomores like to show their
emancipation.

Nevertheless, we have no really sound reason
‘why we should spoil the appearance of the most
attractive and noticeable portion of the David-
son College grounds. That splendid stretch of
green lawn in front of the fine structure in which
we have so much pride should not be marred
by the thoughtless trampling of many feet. We
cannot let this clear clean sweep of grass and
trees become defaced by a beaten path. Upper-

?

There is a factual and psycholog- |

| THE HONOR SYSTEM

| The Davidson Honor System, as set forth in
the Constitution of the Student Government of
| Davidson College as printed in the Wildcat
Handbook, is simple and clear in its phrasing.
The system here has had its praises sung loud
and long by alumnae upon whom it has had in-
fluence. Many students come to Davidson from
high schools where copying from another stu-
dent and other evils, which do not seem serious,
are tolerated.

It is for the benefit of those students as well
| as for the benefit of others who are not familiar
| with the sections of the Constitution that make
| up the Honor System, that we publish the fol-
| lowing Article IV.:

per copy; $2.00 the Col- |

“Section 1—The sections of this Article shall
' constitute the Honor System.

“Section 2—Every student shall be honor-
bound to refrain from cheating, either on reci-
tation, reviews, examinations,. or any other
pledge work.

“Section 3—Every student shall be honor-
bound to refrain from stealing.

“Every student shall be honor-bound to re-
frain from perjury.

“Every student shall be honor-bound to report
all violations of the Honor System which come
under his observation. Failure to do so shall be
regarded as a violation of the Honor System.”

SPARE TIME

How. do you use your spare time? We are
sure that this question has confronted us a great
many times, Have you ever stopped to consider
this question seriously, or is your habit to put it
aside each time and quickly forget it? Too many
of us are prone to give it little thought and even
forget it entirely.

During our college life, we have more spare
time than we will probably ever have again, It
is of great importance that we make the most
of this time in which we are practically free to
do as we wish. As it has been so aptly said,
“Some of us like to sit and think, whereas many
of us like to just sit.” I doubt if college boys
occupy themselves in either of these two ways.
From the way some of us use our time, we would
probably be a great deal better off if we would
just sit. But we are not content to sit still with
‘folded hands; we have a large amount of youth-
ful energy, and we must be stirring about doing
something. The important thing is to apply our-
selvés in the righty. ‘

Possibly the majority of us.devote_a large por-
tion of our spare time to athletics.’ This is a
clean, healthful way of occupying ourselves. The
care and development of the body is very im-
portant, especially in a young man. However,
we must not pursue athletics to the exclusion of
enriching and developing our minds. After all,
the primary purpose of college is to educate our
minds, and fit us for our life work later on. We
should apply ourselves diligently to our. studies.
We have a rich store of knowledge in our col-
lege library, and we shoul avail ourselves of
this opportunity by spending a portion of our
spare time there.

Then we have the social aspect of college life.
Take time to visit your professors. Here you
have an oppoftunity of making social contacts
which will be of great value to you. Get in with
the right crowd of students, and enjoy your
recreation with them. Among them you will
form true friendships of which you will be justly
proud.

«Get into those college activities for which you
are talented, whether it be publications, music,

debating, or something else. Here is an oppor-
tunity to exercise your talents. Make the most
of it!—G. L. G. ~)
Sy
or

TO “CHISEL”

General Johnson of NRA fame has made the
word “Chisel” an active verb of deep interest
to amateur etymologists. A crook who doesn’t
wish to use force to ‘‘muscle’” into another’s
racket uses his intelligence to chisel in. Now
there are chiselers in society, clubs, politics, in-
dustry. The word is no Americanism, Oxford
professors used it to denote sharp practicing in
1821. But that was almost modern. The word
appears to go back to 1609, -when London coined
it from “chouse.” Chouse itself came from
“Chous,” a Turkish interpreter, to whom swind-
ling was like breathing. So, to chisel is to chouse.

—Christian Science Monitor.

HOW TO RUIN A BOY

If a boy has a heritage of good health, good
common sense and a taste for the better things
of life, he has no need of an inheritance of cash.
In fact, in so many cases the moncy actually
brings about the ruination of young men and
boys. Money is a handicap to a normal boy.
He can have more fun without it than he can
with it.

Good advice for parents is not to create too
much wealth for coming generations. Instead of
aiding them to enjoy life the parents may actu-
ally be forcing their descendants to languish in
prison cells, Children should be willed some-
thing of importance—good examples, health,
character, willingness to work, and other things
that matter. Money, beyond enough to pay for
necessities, is of so little value—Ingham County
News, Mason, Mich

classmen are responsible for the outcome. There
are no barriers now to prevent our easy access,
but surely we can spare a few moments for the
benefit of Davidson’s campus.—R, P. T.

NEWS DIGEST

On Other Campuses |

‘WHO, ME?

Cotton

King Cotton received a decided
boost Saturday at the hands of the
President when the price was set at
ten cents per pound regardless of the
market fluctuations. The plan is a
form of loan system to guarantee this
price and the staple still unsold will
get the benefit of this idea.

The government will lend the farmer
ten cents on each pound. If the mar-
ket price at the time the cotton is sold
below ten cents the government loses;

| if it is above ten cents the farmer may

pay back the loan and pocket the bal-
ance. It is hoped that the market
price of cotton will remain around ten
cents and then there will, of course,
be no need for the loans.

It_was thought. at first that this of-

fer would only be made to those farm~ |

ers who would agree to the cotton
reduction plan of next year whose
limit is set at 25,000,000 acres—a great
decrease. But this is not true. The
loan will be made to any and all farm-
ers who have sincerely tried to co-
operate with the government.

This is a great step forward for the
South and should, if intelligently han-
dled, mark the comeback for a time
at least to the reign of King Cotton.

Labor Unions

Labor and the NRA have joined
hands in a mutual agreement and are
looking upon each other as allies. Mr.
Green, head of the American Federa-
tion of Labor, has announced that his
ranks have increased by 500,000. men
since its union with the NRA.

Mr. Brisbane writes that “some still
believe that if any union is to govern
the United States, it willocontinue to
be a union of the forty-cight states
and not any privately managed organ-
ization, but they may be old-fash-
ioned.”

At the same time with the rise in
stock of the American labor union
there is a definite decline in the Brit-
ish labor party. It is on the down-
grade. Its membership is now 2,500,-
000 below the 1920 figure, although
Prime Minister McDonald, the labor
candidate, is still at the helm of Eng-
lish politics. :

The Dollar

The financial doctors abroad report
that the European countries are run-
ning away from our dollar. Its value
is sinking rapidly and is at its lowest
ebb in Franee. It is now lower in
value than it has been in fifty years.

At the same time the franc, the-
pound sterling, and the pesata went
up as the dollar went down. And all
the time the United States lacks the
good effects which would follow in-
flation, But not for long. As soon
as Congress meets the vast majority
of inflationists in that august body will
see that something is done and done
immediately.

Gold

As the dollar goes down, gold goes
up. England is buying it and paying
a high premium. France is buying it.
Belgium is buying it. The United
States, off the gold basis, has millions
in gold stored up and is constantly
seeking more. Gold mines are being
sought everywhere.

The Philippine Islands began the
rush with the discovery of new gold
mines and Manila is enjoying a ter-
tific gold boom. Canada has opened
up new mines and prospectors are
again combing the western states as
of yore in hopes of finding more of
the precious yellow metal.

Petroleum is gone} timber is gone,
and now the exploitation period of the
minerals is at hand. Gold is on the
upgrade. Other precious metals will
follow. The age of minerals is here.

From the Background

dear editor i was down to the football
game saturday and was thrilled beyond
words although most everybody else
went away disappointed because da-
vidson didnt whip elon by four or
five touchdowns. that certainly was a
thrill wheh eb ‘willson ran twenty
three yards only to fumble the ball
on the three yard line. say i wonder
who that little boy was that made it
easy for midget verble to light when
he and some elon player hit the ground
out of bounds. he certainly surprised
me when he got up not shedding a
tear.

say they have a crude piece of archi-
tecture down at the stadium which
would do justice to a country ball lot.
i think it is unsitely and should be
torn down. they could build another
out of the same material and put a
little paint on it and really make an
attractive building or stand out of it
dont you think. question mark.

you know big jim morgan is going to
be another gene tunney only instead
of being a boxer become cultured jim
is going to be a football player trans-

PURDUE
Two Freshmen entering Purdue have
given the university a novel lesson in
practical economy. Bringing their
room and board from home in the
form of a “house on wheels” mounted
ow’a truck chassis, the two men have
set up housekeeping on a street near

the university campus.

NORTH CAROLINA

A new group study plan is being of-
fered this fall by the university exten-
sion division which will make it pos-
sible for students unable to attend col-
lege to receive college instruction by
correspondence. The plan, under the
supervision of Russel Grumman, direc-
tor of the extension division, calls for

|.supervised.group study under the co-

operative direction of local high
schools and the university extension
division,

THE PRISON NEWS~”

From the Prison News, edited by
the North Carolina State Prison, we
find the following quotation: “The
human race is made up of strange
creatures, How often idealism is
praised to the skies and the finer
qualities of man eulogized in beauti-
ful phraseology, yet when they are
called to practice what they preach
they lack the fortitude to stand by
their idolized precepts. Then like
sheep they jump the fence where they
seem to find a security with the moh
and. there, lose their identity in the
drift of human frailties.” Take note!

Vv. Pw

Over a million dollars has been re-
quested by Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute from the State Board of Federal
Emergency Public Works Administra-
tion, an AP dispatch from Richmond
Sunday indicated, for ‘new buildings
and other projects.

If the application for funds goes
through, the Greater V. P. I. Plan,
almost at a halt during the last few
years, will be resumed with vigor as
necessary campus units are built.

formed, the other day i heard him tell
captain charlie rives that he played
ball in albermarle this summer and
that he was quotation marks hitting
that apple quotation marks. the funny
thing about it was that jim put em-
phasis on the final g in hitting.

captain—charlic rives is conducting a
beauty parlor on the porch of west
dormitory, he has been practicing on
a few of the boys making no charge
for his work.

i heard a girl ask a boy saturday what
happened when they threw’a pass in a
football game. the boy happened to be
wearing a little red freshman cap and
of course he couldn’t tell her even if
he wanted to so she had to go away
unanswered. it looked like they were
incompleted saturday.

little johnny dolan moved off of fourth
floor east this year into the basement.
he said he did it to uphold the dignity
of the rafter inhabitants.

say that reminds me. why dont you
move down to the first floor so that
we reporters wouldnt have to climb
four flights of stairs to bring in our
copy every week, it tires me out.

say i would like to have my picture
taken and used in this column each
week of course the girls would not
care to read what i write then because
they are afraid of rats but who besides
charlie harris cares for feminine fan
mail. you know i think i could take
as good a picture as one of those tee
thompson had made.

there are some kids near here who
get up at five o clock in the morning
and come down to play football. this
morning they woke me up so with
nothing else to do i went down to run
them off. but when i got down there
i got interested in the kids and
watched them. one little boy as soon
as his side lost possession of the ball
quit for a few minutes until his team
got it back when he started playing
again.

i Wonder who those two little friends!
bruce peabody had the other day were.
was he rushing them question mark.

i Il bet these professors will be glad
when rushing season-is over. they sure
must get tired of answering their own
questions all the time.

i noticed in the paper the other day
that hitchhicking on the highways will
be combatted on a nation-wide basis.
that sure would make it bad for david-
son students in the future. where
would some of them get exercise; for
their thumb. :
yours til next week
randy.

If it be true that much study is a
weariness to the flesh, then I’ve no
cause to be tired from what is sup-
posed to be of paramount importance
at this institution of learning. Sleep,
blessed sleep, and lots of it is all I’m
interested in getting just now. It’s been
so long since I’ve had a normal
amount of rest that both Blanton Lit-
tle and my roommate would suffer a
serious relapse were I to get eight
hours straight. (Just wait, though, for
one of these first days I’m crashing
through for a week or two. I'll just
come out of bed at meal time.) I
don’t suppose I’d ever get sleeping
sickness, and if i did with my natural
aptitude for getting unlucky breaks,
I’d be so troubled with insomnia that
rest would be impossible. Regarding
sleep, I don’t think it’s altogether out-
of-the-way to say something about the
sleeping habits of Matt Alderman. Bar-
ring none, he has the most accom-
plished technique along the soporific
lines of anyone of my acquaintance.
It is a known fact that he can go to
sleep in a room in which three people
are talking, six lights are burning,
and a Freshman is writing on a type-
writer in the Christopher Columbus
(first he discovers and then
At any rate, I'd like to
The room in which

system
he lands).
be sleeping now.

I'm writing is so stuffy that only a -

glass of something nice and cold which
tastes of coca cola could compensate

. of course not everyone likes coca
cola.

And if you want to see something
both interesting and entertaining, drop
around to Henry Hodgin’s room about
his bed time. (Incidentally, no one—
not even Henry—knows when that is;
at least, he isn’t able to say definitely.

If you're lucky enough to get there

right at the crucial moment, so much
the better.) The point of the story
is first concerned with the fact that
when he returned to school this year,
he found a double-decker in his room.
By this time it may have been changed,
but when I was there, it hadn’t been.
It seems that they are Henry’s pet
abomination. Or this memorial date
he had on red P. J.’s. As 1 walked
in, he started to spring for the bed,
and on my word of honor as a gentle-
man, if I have any and am such, I
have never seen anyone look so as if
he were starting on a here-we-go-gath-
ering-nuts-in-the¢maytime-dance. It
didn’t last very long, but while it did

. anyway, why don’t you go up
sometime? He may even tell your
fortune.

The Freshmen who are putting up
bleachers might do well to remember
the story of the Indian who was found

pounding his thumb with a hammer.
A chancing Passer-by asked the rea-
son for the procedure and was in-
formed that it felt so good when it
was stopped. Of course most, if not
all, of the bleachers are up by now,
but there’ll.come the time when they'll
have to be changed for baseball sea-
son. And in the end they must be
put away like so many bathing suits.

Some so-and-so on this hall started
out somewhere not so long ago and
locked his room. No sooner had he
gone than his alarm clock began to
ring, or go off, or whatever it is that
alarm clocks do. And it was tightly
wound, too. It’s only just stopped,
and I’m just about to have D. T.’s.
There’s one thing in connection” with
this alarm clock business that I don’t
understand. Every year makers pro-
claim from the housetops that their
respective products are the best yet.
They affirm on the basis of a money-
back guarantee that the clocks will
absolutely last a lifetime. And yet
every year the same people are buying
alarm clocks again. I’ve come to the
conclusion that on holidays and Sun-
days persons who are lucky enough
to have the day off have their alarm
clocks set as usual so that they may
get the great pleasure of framing
them against the wall.

All things,

Both good and bad, and others,
if such there be,
must end.

I've both ‘to

Stop and fill

this space

with this and that,
the little nothings
that go to make up
LIFE,

-which is

to some,

only a

cigarette,

about to

Go out

in the

wind.
