THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 18, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of
Associated Gollegint
Svocined Selene Pe

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolitia, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editors
Editor are
publication

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managin
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the
welcome, but all communications intended for
must be signed.

ODI _CASATL se Naess:

jinn Edit
W, T. JOHNSON... ager

..-Business Manager

G. L. Managing Editor
E. F. fanaging Editor
B. L. Managing Editor
K. dD, fanaging Editor
JACK -Alumnt Editor
Cc. E. Sports Editor
RAWIL itorial Writer
Ji As hange Editor
D. B. ature Editor
S. K. ture Edi

S.-C; ature i

c. Ss. ~Feature i

D. W. H -Review Editor
L, W. CLé ssociate Editor
A, F. SCI 3 ssociate Editor
W. M. TH PSO. ssociate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, -----Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

G. L. sistant Business Manager
W._L. istant Business Manager
}: R. Assistant Business Manager
. AL -Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1933+

Education is simply the encouragement of right
habits—the fixing of good habits until they become
a part of one’s naturc, and are exercised automat
ically, —Elbert Hubbard

HOMECOMING

That time of year when Davidson alumni bring
back fond memories of days lived on the campus
is here again. Saturday will be “Homecoming”
for them, and many who were boys here for four
long years, which now seem but days, will re-
turn to see others who perhaps played some boy-
ish prank, uttered a suppressed chuckle at some
eccentric professor, or blocked some charging
tackle in a foothall game with them,

Some and probably most of them, who will
return, we do not know; but that does not relieve
us, Davidson students, of the duty of making
them feel one of us once more. They are a part
of Davidson and Davidson is a vital part of them,
and since we are Davidson of today, it is our
duty to welcome them home.

The college has done its part in planning and
arranging the homecoming program; the alumni
do their part when they take a few hours off
their work to live once more in memories; and
we can do our part when they return this week-
end,

We welcome you back, alumni, back to the
place vou-helped mold and which helped mold
you,

MILITARY TRAINING —

In the first issue of “The Davidsonian” this
year we published an editorial in defense of
Military Science at Davidson, chiefly to correct
a statement which appeared in a Charlotte news-
paper and to oppose an editorial which appeared
in the Greensboro “Daily News.” Last week a
communication, addressed to us by several stu-
dents who were opposed to military training in
a Christian school, was published because we
felt “The Davidsonian” should be the voice of
the students.

This week we received a letter from J. J.
jarnhardt, of Kannapolis, who is vice-president
of Cannom Mills Company, and since it expresses
the sentiment of quite a few students we pub-
lish it:

“A letter addressed to the Editor of ‘The Da-
vidsonian,’ and appearing on the editorial page
of October 11th issue, invokes criticism, mainly
because it does not, I believe, reflect the senti-
ment of the student body or the college con-
stituency. Certainly a majority at least of the
advanced students who have had time to digest
their studies in science, are bound to appreciate
the value of Military Training conducted under
the proper environment, and the possible influ-
ence it might have in the event of service. Those
who do not appreciate it would possibly do well
to have the experience as they will most likely
be the first to need it, and a course of Military
Training would better prepare even a policeman
for service to his fellowman.”

THE COURT OF CONTROL

The Davidson Court of Control, headed by its
judge, James A, Halverstadt, has proved itself
an active and successful one, viewed from the
results it has obtained since the opening of
school. Since the final traces of hazing and
horse play were ruled out of Davidson three
years ago, freshman classes became more un-
ruly each year, and actually at times it was im-
possible for upperclassmen to obtain respect
from members of the yearling group.

Cénditions appear to be different this year, and
the court must be commended for doing its un-
pleasant task in such a manner as to avoid ill
feeling between the freshmen and upperclass-
men. The court changed its method of handling
casés this year and before it makes any investi-
gation it requires a written charge from the ac-
cuser. In this manner Judge. Halverstadt ob-

| System.
| monitorship by confidence in student honor on

tained the respect of the freshmen and conse-
quently their co-operation more readily.

As in past years, freshmen are required to re-
main in their chapel seats until upperclassmen
have -gone-out.— The-first-chapel-services-of-the
semester the yearlings remained. in their seats
fully three minutes after everyone else had gone
from the auditorium, but soon they began get-
ting up and leaving at the same time the upper-
classmen did. But they didn’t keep it up because
Judge Halverstadt took action and they gladly
co-operated.

HONOR SYSTEM PLEA

The two principal forms of student govern-
ment are the Honor System and the Proctor
The former is a principle that replaces

the theory that students are gentlemen and will
act accordingly in an honorable manner. The
latter is a system that denies that students are
gentlemen and honorable, and substitutes for a
system of mutual confidence, one of policing.

For the honor system to be a complete suc-
cess, the students must give their unqualified
adherence to it; there must be hearty co-opera-
tion between students and faculty. Reporting
by the students constitutes, of course, the suc-
cess of the situation; and they must be willing
to accept that obligation unequivocally that the
system may achieve the greatest possible suc-
cess. Many students are reluctant to accept the
responsibility to report their fellow students for
breaches of honor. They feel that this is “tat-
tling,” and this is against their code of ethics.
But such reports should not be confused with
what is known as “squealing.” The latter should
be used to designate the reporting of a strictly
personal, man-to-man affair, A student’s con-
duct, such as cheating, stealing, and drinking,
which threatens to undermine the very founda-
tion of an honor system, is not a personal affair
and should not be treated as such.

When a rock rolls downhill, it gathers mo-
mentum as it goes, and becomes
harder to stop as it nears the bottom,

So it will

be with any honor system if it begins to slip. |

We have a fine student body this year, and one
that will not allow dishonesty in its midst.

Professor Edward S. Joynes, of the University
of South Carolina, said: “The only true system
for the education of a gentleman by gentlemen
is the honor system—that is, the system of mu-
tual respect and confidence.”—Julian W. West.

LECTURES

Davidson students are given. the opportunity
to increase their knowledge of many diversified
subjects by attending the nimerous addresses
by outstanding men in their respective fields,
but few avail themselves of these opportunities.
experts in their vocations are brought to this.
institution by the Committee on Lectures or de-
partmental professors only after the completion
of lengthy negotiations and often with the ex-
penditure of funds.

The majority of students seem entirely obliv-
ious to the fact that the comparative short while
spent in attending these lectures would be in-
estimably more valuable than the usual routine
of movie-going, facetious discussion (bulling),
or even study. Our instructors endeavor to im-
prove attendance by making “the presence of
those under their tutelage compulsory. This is
strained, however, and is not conducive to vol-
untary attendance in the future either on the
part of those in their departments or otherwise.

Dean Davison addressed a_ pitifully . small
crowd upon his recent visit to Davidson. Surely
a man who has proven himself to be such a
leader in the scientific (medical) realm of the
intellectual world should command a larger as-
sembly than the one we offered him.

Lecturers have come to Davidson, however,
under the auspices of certain authorities who
have not been satisfactory from the standpoint
of subject matter or delivery. One poor address
can easily spoil the attendance at all subsequent
lectures for several months. More interest on
the part of the students depends upon greater
appreciation of the good they might derive and
upon the procuring of speakers whose topics and
manner of exposition are satisfactory to the
average undergraduate audience.

—R. P. T.

HERE AND THERE

Co-eds at the Texas College of Mines have
organized a “No Date Club,” the membership of
which is constantly changing.

Because of numerous gate crashers at their
athletic contests, University of Kentucky offi-
cials have erected a six-foot barbed wire fence
around their stadium.

New York University has established a course
in Form and Color as a result of the Century of
Progress architecture.

Brazil, in organizing a national educational
program, is negotiating with the University of
Michigan for a series of motion pictures of the
Michigan,;campus to be used as a model for their
work, f

A new college has been formed at Black Moun-
tain, N. C., which will have no president and no
classification for undergraduates.

For the first time in its history, the University
of California as Los Angeles is offering gradu-

ate work.

The average of a freshman at Northwestern

University is now 18 years, as compared to 19

years in 1919, -

harder and |

“napping-of Crschel.

NEWS DIGEST

KING CAROL ESCAPES DEATH

King Carol of Roumania narrowly
escaped death from assassins’ bullets
as he was returning from army ma-
neuvers at Tragaviste. The assassins
mistook another train for his and their
fire riddled only empty coaches after
the royal train had already passed.

LIQUOR CONTROL

U. S. officials are now studying a
system of liquor control since repeal
seems imminent. All prohibition bu-
reaus and agencies of the government
have been co-ordinated in an effort to
solve this problem and the states are
also urged.to act immediately.

NEW DAM

The General Joe Wheeler dam, new
giant Tennessee River project, has
been ordered started by President

Roosevelt. The dam will cost $22,000,-
000 and will be the third great struc-
ture to be thrown against this river.
The dam will be used as a source of
power and also to provide for naviga-
tion up the river since locks will also
be built to lift ships over the shoals.

WHEAT

Russia again boasts a record crop
of wheat-butowitt-need-it-all this time
to support her For years the
Ukraine was the grain cradle of Eu-
rope, but last year the depression
struck even the crops and Russia went
hungry. Now, however, wavering fields

own.

of golden grain again stretch across

| the steppes and the bread ‘supply of

Europe is amply assured.

TOBACCO

The tobacco code has finally been
fixed at seventeen cents with the add-
‘ed feature that all purchases made
since September 25 should be retro-
active as applied to this rule. The
code was signed by Secretary Wallace
and approved by eight companies. The
government also retained the privilege
to examine the books of the company
to see if they were living up to the
agreement. :

NEW PRISON

On Alcatraz Island‘in San Francisco
Bay is the new prison for desperate
criminals. It is here that George Kelly
will. be confined for life for the kid-
The island is now
used as a military prison by the War
Department. This prison will be used
especially for the worst desperadoes.
One hundred will be taken from Leav-
enworth and one hundred from At-
lanta, but there will still be room for
many more, It. is practically escape-
proof.

SEA TRAGEDY

Five Greek sailors reached Philadel-
phia aboard an Italian steamer to tell
how their ship, the freighter Annoula,
was struck by a terrific hurricane Fri-
day off the N. C. coast and went down
with twenty-one of their shipmates.
One woman was among ,those lost.
The ship was swamped by heavy seas
but the survivors managed to keep a
small boat adrift for thirty-six hours
until they were picked up near Ber-
muda,

GERMANY

Europe seethes as the result of the
withdrawal of German delegates from
the arms parley, Hitler defiantly de-
nounces the other nations in the parley
and calls upon the people to stand up
for their rights of equality among the
nations. The Reichstag has been dis-
solved. Hindenburg preaches nation-
alism and the rights of Germany be-
fore throngs frenzied with patriotism.

Hitler, the dictator, stands forth as
the voice which calls the people to a
new awakening of power and pride.
He, in a forceful display of oratory,
plays upon the feelings of the nation.
He says that they have made an hon-
est attempt to heal the wounds of war
but that they are surrounded by ai
repressive ring of continental nations
who are trying to keep a great coun-
try in a subordinate and beaten con-
dition. He says that their enemies
have not sought to keep Wilson’s
“fourteen points.” Hitler has lit the
torch of war in Europe and Germany
is again afire with hysterical patrio-
tism as the footsteps of Nazi soldiers
resound in the streets.

Meanwhile
Parley
wrecked.

the League and Arms
probably _ irritrievably
A popular wave of support
swept a program of preparedness for-
ward in England>-~Austria>-masses
troops on the frontier and stops all
travelers and passers-by. Belgium
strengthens her defenses. France is
worried but feels morally and physi-
cally secure. While Japan, although
highly surprised over the actions of
Germany, failed to show any concern
over conditions in Europe,

Lawrence Stallings calls his photo-
graphic history The FIRST World
War. Are we approaching the sec-
ond? ??

‘

are

“Night Flight”

at Local Show

“I Loved a Woman” and “The
Power and the Glory” Also
Favored

Wednesday, October 18—Solitaire Man

A very unusual picture, filmed al-
most entirely on a passage flight of
a large airship. It shows the track-
ing-down of a very notorious criminal
on the plane, and the escape of another.
Herbert Marshall is one of the crooks
who succeeds in tracing out another,
Lionel Atwill, who is on the plane.
The police are after Atwill, but Mar-
shall lands him and makes. away .him-
self. They are aided by Elizabeth Al-
lan, May Robson, and Mary Boland.

Thursday, October 19—The Power and
The Glory

\ This story relates the life of a large

railroad magnate, through his strug-
gles and his successes. The story is
told throughout the picture by a
friend: of his, with Spencer Tracy as
the railroad magnate, and Ralph Mor-
gan as the friend who tells the story.
Colleen Moore makes her return to
the screen in the role of the railroad
man's wife. It is rated as one of the
outstanding ' pictures of the past
month,

=

Friday, October 20—I Loved a Woman

Rated as one of the most outstand-
ing shows of the season, starring Ed-
win G. Robinson and Kay Francis. It
is a romantic picture, portraying the
love of two people for each other, It
should not be missed.

Saturday, October 21 —Golden Harvest
No advance on this yet.

Monday and Tuesday, October 23-24—
Night Flight

One of the leading pictures of the
current month, John Barrymore plays
the part of the head of an aviation
company, and the picture is taken up
showing the troubles besetting him
when he attempts to start a passenger
route at night. The picture is very
good all the way through, although
there is not much in the way of plot
to it. The tenseness is carried through-
out, and all the troubles and failures

are shown. He is aided by an out-
standing cast, including Helen Hayes,
Robert Montgomery, Clark Gable,

Myrna Loy, and William Gargan. IH
should not be missed.

From the Background

dear editor. i am sold on this home-
coming idea because many of the men
who used to throw crumbs to me and
entertain me with their musings and
jokes will be back and maybe ill get
to see some of them. :

they tell me that b. o. ravenel chiseled
on you and fred and chas. on the trip
and made you three do all the driving.

somebody said they ought td take old
tom out of his cage for the duke game.
if you want *my humble opinion he
ought to be taken out of that cage for
good. have you ever passed up the road
towards the gym when west wind was
blowing east. well if you havent try it
sometimes and ill bet youll agree with
me,

they tell it on a certain davidson pro-
fessor stating that he never goes out
in his automobile unless he has a
siphon a bucket and a tow chain. at
that it isnt a bad idea for he might
forget to buy some gas sometimes,

they tell me that bermuda has not had
a murder or kidnapping for fifty years.
maybe it is the onions influence.

get your picture taken this week if
you think you can do the quips and
cranks justice.

roamingly
Tandy.

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable. Rates

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Court of Control passed a regu-
lation forbidding freshmen to enter the
post office between eight and nine
a. m, every morning.

Wofford defeated Davidson 7-0, in a
hard-fought game.

Captain Pritchett gave a talk at “Y”
vespers on Paul as a great athlete,

TEN YEARS AGO

In the dedication game on Richard-
son Field, Davidson defeated the Cita-
del, 7-0.

On Homecoming night. the student
body presented a group of stunts for
the entertainment of the alumni and
other visitors,

| On Other Campuses

IDAHO

Western football fans are watching
with interest the development of the
new basket weave huddle invented by
Coach Leo Calland, of the University
of Idaho football team, as a means of
confusing the opposition,

The huddle begins in regulation for-
mation, the players gathered with their
heads together about the quarterback,
Then three men run out to the line of
scrimmage. The fourth man _ heads
from the right side of the huddle to-
ward the left, and a fifth crosses his
path from left to right. This keeps
up rapidly until the entire team is
lined up in 3-4-3 formation. Quickly,
the quarterback calls “hep” and the
men shift to their positions to the
count of 1, 2, 3.

CALIFORNIA

If you happen to be passing by the
University of California campus in the
early hours of morn and hear “ Pedro”
shouted from roof top to roof top, or
window to window, don’t get the idea
that the student body has taken to the
ancient game of cards. It’s just an
old Spanish, or perhaps Mexican, cus-
tom that is supposed to have originated
from the mimicry of a student resi-
dent of International House, who used
to announce his impending visit to a
friend by shouting his name as he ap-
proached the campus club. Now ‘it has
come to signify that a student has
finished burning his midnight “ oil” and
is about to retire!

V. M. I.
And thé there is that weak one
told on the V, M. I. rat that sent his
pants to the Associated Press!!

YALE

A fund of $85,000 has been set up
at Yale University to enable students
to work their way through college by
work’ suited to their inclinations, in-
stead of waiting on tables in the din-
ing halls. They will be executive sec-
retaries, aids to the maters, librarians
and athletic secretaries, historians or
curators, or will do specialized work
in the university library. Students
holding these scholarships will receive
pay at a base rate of 50 cents an hour.
Sixteen hours a week will enable them
to earn their board, and twelve hours
a week will give them their room
rent!

TULANE

Plans for a return of freshman dis-
cipline are being carried through at
Tulane University. Deploring the lax-
ity and indifference which have sprung
up during the past few years, the
Sophomore class has instituted a drive
for the enforcement of freshman cus-
toms. The movement has met with
enthusiasm throughout the school and
all upperclassmen are lending support
to the sophomores,

The traditional green caps are much
in evidence, a stop has been put to
the laxity of freshman organization
at football games, and groups of alumni
police the stands 'to see that the fresh-
men remain in their appointed sec-
tions, the idea being to build up a
more enthusiastic school spirit.

nc cn

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
e

203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

4

cc

