he

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

DAVIDSON CINDER TEAMS
MEET V. P. I.
GOBBLERS SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

CATAWBA MEETS
VARSITY IN
BASEBALL TOMORROW

Freshmen Launch Track
Season Successfully by
Victory Over Charlotte

Captain Pickard of Charlotte is High
Scorer of Meet With Thirteen
| Points

Davidson’s Freshman track team opened
its season here Friday, March 24, with a
victory over Charlotte High School. The
Freshmen took nine first places in the meet
to pile up 74 1-3 points to 42 2-3 for the
losers.
| Captain Pickard, of Charlotte High, was
| high scorer of the meet with thirteen points.
%@\He took firsts in the shot put and broad
Z lamp, and-a second in the javelin throw to
collect his total. Ras Evans, Davidson
|sprinter, and Earle Frazier, Davidson dis-
|tance runner, were next in order with ten

Davidson’s track teams opened their track| points each. Evans won firsts in the 100
seasons successfully last week-end, turn- | and 220-yard dashes, while Frazier took
ing in impressive victories. The Freshmen| firsts in the mile and 440-yard runs.
showed strength in defeating Charlotte; Davidson and Charlotte each made clean
High School, 74 1-3 to 42 2-3, last Friday, | sweeps of the places in one event. Davidson
for the first victory turned in by a David- | took all the points in the pole vault when
son yearling team over the Queen City | Pittman, Lee, and Dolan tied for first. Char-
school in many a year. Their victory was/|lotte cleaned up all the places in the shot
not a surprise, but was exactly as Captain | put, with Pickard, C. Helms, and E. Helms
Pritchett had predicted before the meet. | finishing in that order.
| In six events the Freshmen won the first
{two places, while the visitors gained the
same distinction in two.

The summary:

100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first,
Faison (Davidson) second, Rich (Charlotte)
| third. Time, 10.2 seconds.
| Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first, Mer-
|chant (Davidson) second, Hinson (Char-
losing team by personally accounting | lotte) ant Time, 4 minutes, 41.2 seconds.
for thirteen points, accumulated by ete ae Pa aoaae leary Tae C.
firsts in the shot put and broad jump, Hebe). Ears cme yeh elms (Char-
GUL Eas CELL EMSS Lbs | 220-yard dash:)Evans (Davidson) first,

Evans and Faison in the sprints, Fra- |
zier, Shuford and Merchant in the dis- |
tance runs, Cathey, and Parker in the |
hurdles, and Pittman, Lee, and Dolan in |
the pole vault, gavé good accounts of
themselves Friday and should show up
well in coming meets. Captain Pickard
of Charlotte proved his value to the

area | Faison (Davidson) second, Graves (Char-
The Varsity’s 86 2-3 to 38 1-3 victory | lotte) third. Time, 23.2 seconds.

over Furman on Saturday also was impres-| Pole vault: Lee, Dolan, Pittman (all of
sive. Cold weather and rains slowed up the | Davidson) tied for first. Height, 10 feet.
track considerably, but despite the times 110-yard high hurdles: Cathey (Davidson)
several of the races were close and provided first, Parker (Davidson) second, Isenhour.
thrills at the finish. Captain Fleagle had | (Charlotte) third. Time, 16.3 seconds.
little trouble in beating Alley, South Caro- | 440-yard run: Frazier (Davidson) first,
lina champion, to the tape in the 100 and | Fraley (Davidson) second, Maffitt (Char-
220-yard dashes. His points in these two | lotte) third. Time, 54.9 seconds.
events gave the Wildcats an early lead. Discus: H. Wells (Davidson) first, Sears
George Gullette in the mile, and Charlie! (Davidson) second, E. Helms (Charlotte)
Little in the two-mile run, provided the sur- | third. Distance, 104 feet, 3 inches.
prise element to the meet. Gullette led the | 220-yard low hurdles: Isenhour (Char-
milers all the way except when he was) lotte) first, Pittman (Davidson) second,
passd—by. Hopkins of Furman about 200) Graves (Charlotte) third. Time, 26.9 sec-
yards from the finish. A sprint put him in! onqs. :
the lead again and he won the event. Little, 880-yard run: Shuford (Davidson)-~first,
who is making his first appearance on the| Ryans (Charlotte) second, Cothran (David-
team this season, held the lead in the two-|s0n) third. Time, 2 minutes, 12.1 seconds.
mile run until the final 100 yards, when High jump: Lee (Davidson) first, Mc-

Warren of Furman passed him to come in Cachren (Charlotte) and Wells (Davidson)

first. <
(Continued on page 6)

Miller Cochran added his bit to the
Wildcat score by taking firsts in the
shot put and discus throw, and a sec=
ond in the javelin throw. Cochran has
the college record for the discus throw
and by his showings in practice was
expected to set a new Davidson mark |
in the shot put last Saturday. Several
Sophomores and newcomers made ex-
cellent showings in their first varsity
meet, and should be valuable additions
to the track squad. Gullette, in the mile,
C. Little, two-miler, McPhail, who won
the high hurdles, Glasgow, who came
in first in the 440, Armstead, in the
broad jump, Brown, in the high jump,
Lee, in the pole vault, and McFadyen,

a two-miler, added points to Davidson’s
total Saturday in their varsity track
debut.

Gwinn, Alex Little, Dickerson, Mc-
Callie, Bettis, Flinn, Wagner, Coble,
Morrow, Dill, Corbin, and Cannon were
the other lettermen and members of
last year’s squad who accounted for
points in Davidson’s victory.

Pearce, George Bailey, Charlie Harris,
and Julian West. The starting line-up
excluding the pitcher includes Whitley,
catcher; Morris, first; Bumgarner, sec-
ond; Mackorell, third; Mills, short;
Peabody, Morrison, and Morgan, out-
field. The team will take the field minus
the services of Captain Bradsher, who
was injured in practice several weeks
ago.

This afternoon the Wildcat golf team is
‘playing the famous Washington and Lee
team at the Charlotte Country Club. The
visitors have only one man, Henry Cohen,
from last year’s team. Their sensational
| Billy Howell was lost by graduation.

The Davidson-Duke track meet sched-
uled for next Tuesday at Richardson
Field has been indefinitely postponed,
| since the Blue Devils have a meet on
the following Friday afternoon. The
| Duke coach must have realized that his
| team would have to exert a lot of en-
ergy to handle the Wildcats this year

a ERR | and probably didn’t consider it profit-
The favorites emerged victors in the var-| able to meet two strong track teams in
sity tennis tournament which was finished| a row.
last week. Jimmy Halverstadt defeated
John Lafferty in the finals to retain first
ranking for another year. Captain Charlie
Myers, who failed to compete in the tourna-
ment because of illness, Tee Thompson, and
Dudley Elvery ranked three, four and five,
respectively. The last two named were semi-
finalists in the tournament.

Other events carded for the coming week
include: March 81—baseball—Balls Creek
High vs. Freshmen, here. April 1—track—
V. P. I. Varsity and Freshmen vs. Varsity
and Freshmen, here. April 5—baseball—Le-
noir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, here. M. P. C. I. vs.
Freshmen at Mount Pleasant.

With this, ‘’Cat Tales” comes to an
end. We hope that it has been as much
a pleasure for you in the reading of
’Cat Tales as it has been for us in the
writing.

The rest is silence.

Davidson’s varsity baseball team will
make its 1933:debut tomorrow after-
noon on Richardson Field against Ca-
tawba. Coach Laird is still undecided as
to his starting pitcher, but will pick his
opening day mound worker from Charlie

’Cats Will Meet Army

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, direc-
tor of athletics at Davidson, has an-
nounced that the Wildcats will meet
the United States Military Academy
at West Point in football on October
6, 1934.

The only time before that the two
teams have met was in 1929, when
the Cadets won 23 to 7 after a hard
scrap.

Davidson to Play Host |
To Gobbler Tracksters

Varsity and Freshman Teams of Both
Schools to Participate in Double-
header Saturday

Saturday the Davidson tracksters en-
counter V. P. I. here in a double-header
meet, both Varsity and Freshmen running.
The meet, which is the second for both
Davidson teams and the first for both Vir-
ginia teams, will begin at 2:30 and the
events will ‘be run off interchangeably.

Last year the Wildcats defeated the Gob-
blers 81 to 41 here, and have a good chance
of doing the same this year, but not with-
out a fight. f

V. P. I. sent several_men_to the Southern
Conference Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill on
March 4th, in which they made an ex-
ceptionally good showing. Captain Turner
placed first in the high jump, setting a new
record when he cleared the bar at a little
over six feet. In the pole vault, he has
cleared about 12 feet, 2 inches. However
there is a posstbility that the V. P. I. cap-
tain will not participate in the meet here
due to a leg injury. In the low hurdles,
Lyne will probably be the invaders’ best;
and in the weight events, Grinus, who last
year was tossing the shot around 45 feet
when the season closed, will lead the attack,
backed by one or two others, prove to be
much trouble. Neither Grinus nor Turner
participated in the meet here last year be-
cause of injuries.

Brown and Coble, in the high jump, and
Flinn and Lee in the pole vault, will com-
pete for Davidson against Captain Turner,
while Cochran will meet with Grinus in the
shot put. A. Littlevand McCallie will repre-
sent the ’Cats in the low hurdles in compe-
tition with Lyne of the visitors.

Not much is known concerning the Gob-
blers’ Freshman team. However in the
Freshman Indoor Meet at Carolina a V. P.
I. Freshman pushed Evans mighty close in
the 60-yard dash and placed second to him.
Since that time both have improved and
should run a close race again.

# '

My Greatest Thrill

.AS TOLD BY DICK WHITFELD

I think that almost anyone on the foot-
ball team will admit that beating Wake For-
est last Thanksgiving Day was the greatest
thrill the team has ever gotten, but there
are other thrills which a lineman may re-
ceive aside from winning games and mak-
ing touchdowns.

Perhaps the average spectator doesn’t
realize it, but a well-executed block of an
opposing player, a clean tackle, or the re-
covery of a fumble furnishes a great thrill
to the “mules’’ who have no opportunity
of carrying the ball.

In the game with Washington and Lee
in Lexington, Va., my Junior year, I re-
ceived my greatest share of these thrills.
It was my second big varsity game—and—I
was keyed up to the highest pitch. Whether
that was the cause of it or not, I don’t
know, but I played the best game that day
of my two years of college football. We
scored in the third quarter and spent the
remaining 20 minutes guarding that precious
7-point advantage. The Generals came in-
side of our 15-yard line six times in the
last quarter, but we managed to hold them
for downs each time and the final score
was 7-0. Coaches Younger and Tilson were
as happy as I’ve ever seen them and I felt
the way they looked—thrilled.

Dick Whitfield hails from Hacketstown,
New Jersey. During the past football sea-
son he was alternate captain of the team
and acted as regular captain for most of
the games on account of the injury of Cap-
tain Gardner. Dick also made his letter this
year on the wrestling team. He wrestled in
the unlimited division.

Furman Defeated by Davidson |
in First Meet of 1933 Season

Halverstadt Is Winner
In Varsity Tournament

The annual tennis tournament at David-
son College, held to determine the varsity
team, has just been completed with Jimmy
Halverstadt being named champion, by vir-
tue of his victory in the finals over Johnny
Lafferty, by the scores of 6-4, 6-1, 6-2.

The champion made his way to the final
bracket by defeating Dudley Elvery, star
of last year’s Freshman team. Lafferty
reached the last division when he defeated
W. T. (Tee) Thompson in the semi-finals.

Halverstadt has made quite a name as
a tennis player. He won his numerals on
the yearling squad his first year at David-
son, and in his Sophomore year last sea-
son, he played in the number one. position
onthe varsity team. He has paired with
Lafferty to take the Georgia state doubles
title, and was runner-up in the Middle At-
lantic singles championship last August,
losing to Teddy Burwell in the finals. The
tournament boasted such famous stars as

Jack Mooney, Lefty Bryan, and Wilmer:

Hines.

As a result of the tournament standings
a ladder has been made up as follows, with
the first six named forming the varsity:
Jimmy Halverstadt, Johnny Lafferty,
Charlie Myers, Tee Thompson, Dudley EI-
very, Bob Morrow, Tommy Phifer, Francis
Scott, Wee Thompson, Leland McKeithan,
Johnny Creech, and John Lake.

To advance on the ladder, a player may
challenge the man just above him, and if
he wins advance to his place. The loser
must defedt the man just below him before
he can challenge again.

Davidson Golf Team
Loses to Richmond

A foursome of sharpshooters composing
the golf team of the University of Rich-
mond, champions of Virginia last season,
decisively defeated the Wildcat linksmen,
16 1-2 to 1 1-2 in the’C€ats’ opening match,
over the Charlotte Country Club course, last
Friday.

Claude Swanson and Bill Riegels, Num-
bers 1 and 2, respectively on the Richmond
team, turned in a neat pair of 75’s to take
low medal honors of the day. Jack Wagner,
with a 76, was best for Davidson.

Individual:

George Swanson (Richmond) defeated
Jack Wagner (Davidson) 2 points to 1.

Bill Riegels (Richmond) defeated Captain
Caldwell (Davidson) 2 1-2 points to 1-2.

Ed Meredeth (Richmond) defeated John
Thompson (Davidson) 8 points to 0.

Roland Wright (Richmond) defeated Mac

!/Manson (Davidson) 8 points to 0.

Freshman Net Team .
Picked by Matches

The Freshman tennis tournament, held
this week to determine the positions on
the Wildkitten tennis team, has reached the
finals with only a few upsets.

Morrow’sprang a big upset when he de-
feated Brenizer in the first round. Bell was
picked to win over Barnette in the semi-
finals but he lost to him after a gruelling

Wildcats Take Eleven First Places to
Win Over South Carolina
‘Track Team

The Davidson cindermen opened their
1933 varsity campaign by handing Furman
an overwhelming victory on a soggy track
here last Saturday, by an 86 2-3 to 38 1-3
count.

The local trag¢ksters took 11 first places
and tied for another in the 14 events, com-
pletely routing the South Carolinians.

Miller Cochran, of Davidson, led the in-
dividual scorers, piling up 13 points. He
was first in both the shot put and the dis-
cus throw, and second in the javelin throw.
Captain Fred Fleagle, of Davidson, ran him
a close race for honors, garnering 10 points,
with firsts in the century and furlong
dashes.

Cold weather and rain caused a sloppy
track, which slowed up the running events
considerably, but several of the races, name-
ly the mile and two-mile, provided close fin-
ishes. In the former, Gullette, of Davidson,
barely nosed out Hopkins, Furman’s rep-
resentative, and in the latter Warren, of
Furman, passed C. Little, of the ’Cats, to
come in first.

Summary:

100-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first,
Alley (Furman) second, Robinson (Fur-
man) third. Time, 10.3 seconds.

One-mile run: Gullette (Davidson) first,
Hopkins (Furman) second, Morrow (David-
son) third. Time, 4 minutes, 54 seconds.

220-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first,
Alley (Furman) second, McCallie (David-
son) third. Time, 23.6 seconds.

120-yard high hurdles: McPhail (David-
son) first, Wood (Furman) second, Pratt
(Davidson) disqualified. Time, 16.5 seconds.

Shot put: Cochran (Davidson) first, Wag-
ner (Davidson) second, Traynham (Fur- ,
man) third. Distance, 42 feet, 9 1-2 inches.

440-yard run: Glasgow (Davidson) first,
Boney (Furman) second, Moffett (David-
son) third. Time, 54.3 seconds.

Pole vault: Robin (Furman) and Flinn
(Davidson) tied for first, Lee (Davidson)
third. Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.

Discus throw: Cochran (Davidson) first,

(Continued on page 6)

five-set match which lasted over three
hours. The rest of the favorites had am-easy
time defeating their opponents. Lewis, the
favorite of the tournament, has not lost a
set so far in the tournament matches.

This year’s team will consist of the fol-
lowing men: Bowman, Bell, Lewis, and Bar-
nette. These four men reached’ the sémi-
finals in’ the tournament determining the
team.

Summary:

First. round: Lewis defeated Murray, 6-0,
6-0; Barringer defeated Huntington, 6-1,
6-4; Hassell defeated Wells, 6-1, 6-2; Bow-
man drew a bye; Barnette defeated Lind-
say, 6-1, 6-2; Morrow defeated Brenizer,
6-0, 6-1; Bell defeated Marvin, 6-0, 6-0;
Gold defeated Goodykoontz, 6-0, 6-3.

Quarter-finals: Lewis defeated Barringer,
6-0, 6-0; Bowman defeated Hassell, 6-2, 7-5;
Barnette defeated Morrow, 6-1, 6-2; Bell
defeated Gold, 6-2, 6-2.

Semi-finals: Barnette defeated Bell, 6-3,
6-2, 2-6, 1-6, 6-38; Lewis defeated Bowman,
7-5, 6-4, 6-3.

EI Sao BaP Mase KPa Saoes

© Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY

“CLEAR ALL WIRES”
LEE TRACY — UNA MERKEL

THURSDAY

“GRAND SLAM”
PAUL LUKAS — LORETTA YOUNG

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

“42ND STREET”
WARNER BAXTER — RUBY KELLER

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

“SO THIS IS AFRICA”
WHEELER AND WOOLSEY

