THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

The Pavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Collegiate Press
== 1933 Canora SHED) ov 1934 =

Covenace)

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION $2.00 the Col-

legiate year.

RATES: Ten cents per copy;

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at ty stele
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are

welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.
ou CASA Disses ccc ce ce ween. cen cnsnasnescnses= Editor
W. T. JOHNSON.----.- ve B sM

G. L. GULLETTE anaging Editor
E. F. McPH anaging Editor
B. L. ROSE anaging Editor
K. D. WEEKS anaging Editor
JACK HE NGERNA iene Alumni Editor
C. E, NOR sears Sports Editor
RAWLING PRA Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNTER or
. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON --Feature Editor
8. C. Re Ne --Feature Editor
C. S. McC. --Feature Editor
D/W. HOLLINGSWORTH, JR..---------------------- Teed Editor
L.A LA Editor
A. AS lasate Editor
W. -------Associate Editor
JA Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

esa scneccasensnsansAssistant iness Manager
ness Manager
anager

anager

Bus
Bus

>
Business

1933

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6,

The only hope of preserving what is best lies in
the practice of an immense charity, a wide tolera ice/| fe
a sincere respect for opinions that are not ee

—Hamerton.

THE SCENE CHANGES
The helmeted warriors have retired from the
turfed gridiron, and before long agile young men

clad in shorts will dash across the hardwood
courts and hold the attention of the spectators.
And so the scene changes, and although the

actors on the football field have made their exit,
the memory their accomplishments linger
with us and gives rise to a glow of satisfaction.

of

The defeat of our rivals, the’ Demon Deacons,
on Thanksgiving Day brought our 1933 football
season to a close with a very appropriate climax.
It was indeed a day of thanksgiving for the en-
tire student body. A victory over Wake Forest
is sufficient reason for widespread jubilation and
rejoicing, but when we review the events of this
Fall’s foothall ~we find that there is a
great deal for which we may be thankful.

history;

Davidson has just experienced the best season
since 1920 when we won the State Champion-
ship. This vear’s record of six games won, two
lost, and one tied is certainly an achievement of
which we ‘may be justly proud. The total num-
ber of points that Davidson’s eleven scored on
Opponents this vear is greater than that of any
other season since 1926,

This year’s graduating class will take only
three regulars from the team. Their loss will be
severely felt, but it is indeed unusual and gratify-
ing to know that we will not lose a greater num-
ber of players.

The freshman team promises some excellent
material for next year and with the returning
varsity men-as a nucleus around which to build,
the coaches will probably fashion a team that
will surpass the performance of the 1933 ma-
chine.

The men on the squad this year played a win-
ning game. They did not fight to escape being
beaten, they did not battle for a tie, they did
not endeavor to eke out a victory—they played
to win and win well. Whatever their motives,
we owe them a debt of gratitude. A man sacri-
fices an enormous amount of energy and time
on the football field and very few ever reap a
worthy reward. They may play for fame, for
physical development} for financial reimburse-
ment, for revenge, for pride, for the game’s’sake,
but whatever their personal aims may be, in an
effort to gain them, each individual contributes
his share to the building up of a football team
that will bring honor and glory to the institu-
tion and its students. Whether rightly or wrong-
ly, a college or university is judged to a great
extent by the kind of teams that it produces.

To the coaches and to the players, we admire
your spirit, your pluck, your fight, your ability
“to play up and play the game.”—R. P.-T.

OUR MASCOT AND HIS COLLAR

Eight years ago, when Felix;our mascot, was
very young, some ambitious students entered
the wildcat’s cage and put a collar around his
neck, Since then Felix has grown to be a rather
large cat and the collar, which at the time it
was put on the mascot’s neck was a good fit, is
now too small to afford any comfort to Felix.
In-fact,.if something is not done about it, soon
the piece of leather will eventually choke Felix
to death. The appeal comes from Trainer “Doc”

Charlie, who is Felix’s best friend, and also from
Bruce Peabody, who ‘has discussed at length
with the trainer the problem of the removal of
the collar.

Felix’s ferociousness has increased with his
age, and to put it in “Doc” Charlie’s words, the
“Cat mean to fool with now.” Conse-
quently the trainer balks at the suggestion of
entering the cage and removing the collar, In-
stead he makes an appeal to Davidson students
and alumni‘ to make practical suggestions_as to
how the collar might be removed from Felix’s
neck. ‘These suggestions may be addressed to
“Felix, in care of The Davidsonian.”

is too

HONORARY ORGANIZATIONS

“Honorary fraternities exist on the campus as
an acknowledgement of achievement in various
lines of college endeavor in order that groups
of men, both faculty and students, may be. able
to associate more closely with other men on,mu-
tual interest.” This*ideal has been set up by
those who conceived of honorary fraternities as
organizations directly beneficial in their nature,
and honorary in the true sense of the word, re-
warding achievement as well as providing for the
furtherance of the particular line of endeavor
represented. °

Since the time when the above purpose was
formulated, the majority of the honorary fra-
ternities have striven toward this two-fold goal.
They are the organizations in which member-
ship has become a true honor and a real benefit.
On the other hand, there have been: notable in-
stances of so-called honorary fra
have not attained either of the uirements
provided for by those who controk this line: of
activity. They have neither given just reward

ties which

for achievement nor provided adequate oppor- |

tunity for the closer’ association prescribed.

Yet they continue to be honorary fraternities.
They continue to be classified along with the
much more worthy orders in spite of their in-
activity and their widéspread reputation as to
the lack of benefit arising from membership in
them.

The inactive and inefficient fraternities are
yet their effect is detrimental to those fra-
ternities which are carrying out their purpose
in a conscientious way. The meetings of the for-
mer are few and generally disorderly; their ac-
tivities extend to little outside of issuing bids
and collecting initiation fees and dues. Member-
ship is desired chiefly for whatever prestige may
be gained rather than through a sincere interest
in the field of endeavor represented by the fra-
ternity.

few,

The organizations which conform to the re-
quirements cited constitute so great a majority
that they could, through their representatives
or through some other authoritative body, insist
that the activities of the weaker fraternities be
conducted in more strict accordance with the
principles which they themselves observe. A
thorough investigation into the activities, fi-
nances, and governing policies of the clubs and
fraternities in question would reveal the true
nature of the organizations. A great improve-
ment would be seen if honorary fraternities
could be required to show a detailed account of
the extent to which they have directed their
activities toward the objective prescribed by the
authorities. —F. McP.

Here and There

Efforts are being made at the University of
Colorado toward desnobbing the campus. Every
student crossing the bridge over the lake must
shake the hands of everyone he meets. So far
it has been successful.

A questionnaire reveals the 298 of the class
of 1937 came to Princeton for an education, 179
because Of the university’s name and reputation,
and 70 for contacts and social advantages.

University of Missouri students may “crash”
Columbia theatres three times this fall during
the football season, according to a decision of
the Student Council and the theatre managers.
This may be done Saturday nights following a
victory.

A back-to-the-farm movement has begun at
Pittsburgh University where the co-eds have
become wrapped up in a crocheting vogue and
really expect to wear “home-spun.”

According to a psychological study of several
years at Purdue University, college students do
worry. Some of the causes for worry and per-
centage of students perplexed by these are:
studies—42 per cent; financial—30 per cent; fam-
ily affairs—15 per cent; religion—4 per cent;
affairs of the heart—only 9 per cent.

All students living in fraternity houses at
Marquette University, Milwaukee, have their
names, characteristics, and peculiarities listed
with the police.

NEWS DIGEST

NAZI FEELING

The feeling in America against the
Nazis and Hitler is growing stronger.
A German professor who was lecturing
in Ford Hall, Boston, on the Nazi pol-
icy, was almost mobbed by a crowd of
Bostonians who became angry at his
doctrines. The police charged a crowd
of 5,000 and many cracked heads re-
sulted from the ensuing conflict. The
lecture was finally delivered while a
heavy: police guard surrounded the
building.

PINE PAPER

The U. S. makes another step in its
advance toward internal independence.
This time it is the making of paper
from the southern pine tree. Formerly
all of the pulp used in making news-
papers was imported from Canada and
was spruce pulp. The Canadian price
was twenty-seven dollars and ninety
cents a ton. The South can now pro-
duce good newsprint for nineteen dol-
lars and six cents a ton, And so a new
“gigantic industry” in the South is
under way.

GOLD GOING

The gold reserve of France is stead-
going away. This terrific drain
upon the holdings of the Bank of
France has been going on for some
time and now the statistics show that
the gold reserve has reached its low-
est point since April, 1932. France for-
merly had the largest gold reserve in
the world, but now it is a different
story.

ily

LYNCHING

This year, as never before, the num-
ber of lynchings shows a decided in-
crease over those of former years. In
every paper is ‘the story of some mob
raiding a certain jail or of some vic-
tim of mob violence, The latest to
shock the country because of its-later
developments was that of the slayers
of young Brooke Hart of San Jose,
Calif. The murderers, Thomas Thur-
mond and Jack Holmes, were lynched
by a mob who entered the jail and took
them away.

THE GERMAN CHURCH

The church fight in Germany reached
a climax today when the entire Reich’s
church, cabinet, governing’ body for all
Protest}nt church groups in Germany,
resigned. The bitter controversy be-
tween Hitler and the Protestants has
been over interpreting the letter of the
3iblical story. The Nazis hold that
certain portions should be omitted.
However, the resigning body has come
back with the statement that “the
gospel will naturally remain as the
foundation on which the message of
Christ will rest.”

DRINKING
With the coming’ of legal liquor
there comes a new and important prob-
lem: the problem of decent drinking.
During prohibition the addict of in-
toxicants found it necessary to hide
while he drank. Now it is a different

matter. What shall we do about the
matter? As someone in authority
states, “It is better to have decent

drinking in decent: places, than inde-
cent drinking in indecent places. If
we deny the hotels the right to dis-
pense wines and liquors, we are going
to perpetuate the speakeasy, and per-
petuating the speakeasy means the
continuation of bootlegging, necessar-
ily.”

BANS NATURALIZATION

The Austrian government has issued
a decree stating that no foreigner will
be given a chance at Austrian citizen-
ship except under special conditions.
This move was made at the insistance
of those who are fearful of the future
of Austria in its relationships toward
Germany and on account of the pres-
ent German policy,

LINDBERGHS

The Lindberghs in their tour of Eu-
rope and Africa are now on the west
coast of Africa waiting for favorable
weather, when they will attempt to
span the Atlantic.
Africa and head for Natal, Brazil, a
little over a thousand miles away. This
will be their second crossing of the
Atlantic together.

AL: SMITH
Al Smith has put himself into some-
thing of a hole when he began to flail

President Roosevelt and the public
works plan. His attitude has called
forth some severe criticism from

Father Coughlin and others in the pub-
lic eye. Smith says that the program
is failing and that the professors in
the brain trust are making anagrams
of alphabet soup, The former New
York governor writes that the new
civil works administration was created
“to hide the failure of another exist-
ing federal agency.”

They plan to leave:

VESPER SERVICE IS
CONDUCTED BY TROTTER

(Continued from page 1)
brought forth records from a dicta-
phone which had been concealed in
the cell during the preceding conversa~-
This evidence convicted the boy
easily.” Mr. Trotter compared this
theoretically with the records which
he assumed to be kept by the Master.
The sins are there, even though un-
seen, but they shall be blotted out upon
confession and repentance. Our con-
solation is in the fact that the hand
which recorded them is the hand which
blots them out. Sin against God is real
sin, grave sin. David wept for his
sins against his Lord, and not against
his mortal friends and foes.

tion.

“The wages of sin is death,” and
similar statements in the Bible are
countered by this portion of the text—
“that blotteth transgressions for my
sake.” Some people apparently believe
themselves to be doing God a great fa-
vor by coming unto Him; they do not
think of His suffering on the Cross to
save us for His own sake.

A source of great joy to Mr. Trotter,
he says, is the statement of an Ortho-
dox Jew to the eftect that he was more
inclined toward a belief in the power
of Jesus, by observing the change in
Mr. Trotter's life following his, Mr.
Trotter’s, conversion by the city mis-
sions of Grand Rapids, of which he is
now superintendent. This change of
life is made possible by. the fact ex-
pressed in the text—"“and I will not
remember thy sins,” permitting a heal-
ing influence to rest upon a spirit free
from the effects of past sins.

God had His remedy for our sins
even before our life began. It is com-
parable to human remedies for misfor-
tunes which occur in modern times,—
the wrecking crew of a train, for in-
stance, is always ready and waiting to
deliver aid to the victims of accidents,
which occur so often. In much the
same manner, God is ready with His
remedy of salvation for sin. God for-
gets a confessed sin, but does not for-
get an unconfessed sin. Mr. Trotter
concluded his message by reiterating
the words of his text, “I, even I, am
he that blotteth out thy transgressions
for mine own sake, and will not re-
member thy sins.”

Dr. W. L. Lingle closed the service
with a prayer.

NOTED BRAIN SPECIALIST
LECTURES TO PRE-MEDS

(Continued from page 1)

Dr. Sparrow emphasized what a dif-
ficult thing it was sometimes for a
surgeon to. tell what is wrong with
a patient if the patient remains un-
conscious. The injured person’s res-
piration, blood pressure, and,tempera-
ture must be taken into consideration
to discover the nature of the injury.

Dr. Sparrow showed ‘several X-ray
photographs of fractured skulls, some
injured by severe blows and others by
bullets. The majority of the injured
persons photographed were Dr. Spar-
row’s own patients.

SOPHOMORE, WEEK-END
SET FOR DECEMBER 15, 16

(Continued from page 1)
functions. He is a CBS artist and
plays under the auspices of the Music
Corporation of ‘America. His home-
coming engagements at the Universi-
ties of Georgia and Washington and
Lee prove his popularity below the
Mason-Dixon line.

All ten of the social fraternities on
the campus will have house parties in
connection with the sophomore week-
end, A great number of girls have
been invited for the occasion and sev-
eral have graciously consented to act
as sponsors. The affairs will be well
chaperoned by both faculty members
and prominent Charlotte people.

An all-campus vote in the Univer-
sity of Michigan-is-to-be-held-to-give
students an opportunity to voice their
opinions on campus beer-selling gues-
tion, the university ban ‘on automo-
biles, and the honor system.

On Other Campuses

MINNESOTA
Beer and football apparently do not
mix, that is, not in the air anyhow,
for University of Minnesota officials
have refused to sanction radio broad-
casts of Minnesota football games, if
sponsored by brewery concerns.

COLUMBIA

The - much-talked-of Nudist Cult
spread to Columbia University cam-
pus, when the freshmen, who outnum-
bered the sophomores, divested the lat-
ter of their respectable clothing dur-
ing the annual flag day affair.

Columbia University reporters, ques-
tioning people on the street, discovered
that five out of six men think that col-
lege students are loafers. The sixth
man’s opinion could not be printed!

WASHINGTON STATE

Attempts are being made at Wash-
ington State to convince women that
a football game is not a fashion show.
Under the direction of Mortar Board,
co-eds were given a lecture concerning
the finer points of football plays and
rules,

McGILL
The faculty of arts at McGill Uni-
versity has installed a portable shower
bath in the basement of the arts build-
ing for the benefit of sleepy students
returning from a dreary lecture or an
all-night party.

N. Y. U.

Wonders of wonders ... From “ Col-
legiate Capers” in the “Commercial
Bulletin” we learn that Freddie Craw-
ford annually intimidates, compels, and
otherwise causes Duke freshmen to
purchase brooms from him. When the
Gotham columnist got this impression
of our gentle giant is beyond our. com-
prehension. (from the Duke Chron-
icle.)

CLEMSON

Long-suffering cadets who have had
to sit in remote corners of the college
auditorium at Clemson, unable to hear
the speaker, are at last going to have
some relief. Professors of the physics
department are about +o install an
electrical amplifying system to carry
the words of the speaker from the
stage to all parts of the chapel.

Y. M. C. A. GIFT FUND
WILL GO TO UNITY

(Continued from page 1)
building, and in 1932 John Howard and
the people of the community built a
log cabin to be used by the Men’s
3ible Class for prayer meetings, and
for socials.

Last year the fund went to pay the
salary at the Mill Chapel, and to Mr.
John W. Luke to help educate sixteen
students at Glade Valley High School.
In past years it has gone to the For-
eign Mission Board of the Presbyte-
rian Church, to the Barium Springs
Orphanage, Lees-McRae, and to Frank
Price, missionary to China.

The fund will be administered by
the student pastors of the Davidson
Unity Church. They are here not only
during the school season but also dur-
ing the holidays and during the sum-
mer.

It is the hope of the “Y” that all
students will see the actual needs
which confront them and will contrib-

ute gladly and just as freely as pos-
sible,

JOHNSTON TALKS AT
HUGE PEP MEETING

(Continued from page 1)
which had been previously set.up by
the freshmen, was lighted and the
freshmen did a snake dance around it.
To climax the’ meeting, a dummy rep-
resenting the Demon Deacons was

tossed into the flames of the fire and
burned.

Sacramento Junior

College, Cali-
fornia,

§ , held a tong dance last week
én, which’a Chinese theme was worked

out for all the decorations, favors, and
floor show.

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

ell AAA ye

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON ;
@ 203 Watts

@ Garland Court .

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N. C,

re LL

AAU
