THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

3

Program Presented by
French Club at Salem

Salem College, in Winston-Salem, was the
host to fourteen members of Le Cercle Fran-
cais on Tuesday, April 25. The Davidson
group was entertained at dinner in the col-
lege dining hall, and afterward gave several
presentations.

At 8:00 o'clock the Davidson students pre-
sented a program in the auditorium of Sa-
lem Academy. A large and appreciative
audience of students and faculty members
Was present.

Four numbers were presented. First, La-
nier Pratt gave a monologue, “La Poule et
Ses Poussins.” Next, Jules Romains’ com-
edy, “Knock,” was cleverly played by Bob
Coit, in the role of Dr. Knock, and L. T.
Newland and Jack Williams, who took the
parts of the first and second Yokels.

The dialogue, “Dans Une Rue De Prov-
ence” was presented ih costume by George
Gullette an@ Robert Smith, who received
hilarious acclamation.

The last number on the program was
Tristan Bernard’s “L’Anglais Tel qu’on le
Parle.” This play has already been pre-
sented twice by the local French society,
and although the first two were successful,
the third presentation was much more pol-
ished. The cast was as follows: Julien Ci-
candel, L. T, Newland; Betty Hogson, Mad-
ison Armistead;. Manageress, George Gul-
lette; Waiter, Jack Williams; Eugene, the
Interpreter, Bob Coit; Betty’s Father, Hugh
Johnston; Police Commissioner, Lanier
Pratt; and Gendarme, Dale Spencer.

Wills Hollingsworth was in charge of the
make-up. Bill Flinn, president of Le Cercle
Francais, acted as stage manager, and gave
preliminary resumes in English of all the
numbers. William Hart gave several mu-
sical numbers before and during the pro-
gram.

After the presentations, the Davidson stu-
dents were given a reception in the senior
house by Dr. and Mrs. Rondthaler, and the
Salem French Club. Refreshments and music
brought the evening to a close. ?

The Salem club has accepted the invita-
tion for a return engagement in Davidson
early next session,

Dr. T. W. Lingle to Spend ;
Month of June in Spain

When his boat steams out of-New York
Harbor on May 16, Dr. T. W. Lingle, whose
journeys have taken him to many remote
parts of the .world, will begin his thirty-
seventh crossing of the Atlantic Ocean. Mrs.
Lingle will accompany him.

Dr, Lingle plans to spend five weeks in
Southern Spain, during the last part of May
and the month of June, in order to escape
the intense summer heat. He will continue
his historical studies in Spain. Then severat
weeks will be-spent in the vicinity of the
Scandinavian Peninsula, in Norway and
Sweden. During the last part of the sum-
mer, Dr. and Mrs. Lingle plan to pass sev-
eral weeks in England, Germany and France
and then return to this country in time for
the beginning of the fall semester.

Dr. Lingle came to Davidson in 1908. ven
then, his travels had been extensive. He
received his Ph.D. at Leipsic, and studied
at the University of Heidleburg, Strasburg
and Neuchatel,’ and at Sorbonne.

Socialist Movement
Started on Campus

The Socialist Club, which has a8 its pur-
pose to further the socialistic cause on the
campus and to win converts to socialism,
was organized at Davidson Friday night.
Jack Goodykoontz was elected leader of the
movement.

The organization is a socialistic one based
on the pattern of Norman ‘Thomas, Presi-
dential candidate last fall.

Next year the club hopes to secure prom-
inent speakers in order to further the cause.

The next meeting will be held tonight at
8745 o'clock at a place to be announced.

Fireside Forum

Dean H. J. Herring of Duke Uni-
versity will lead the Fireside Forum
this week which again is to be held
at the Social Center Friday night at
9:00 o’clock. Dean Herring is assist-
ant dean at Duke and he was well re-
ceived when he spoke here last year.
He has charge of the students’ class,
and has been very active in Y. M.
C. A. work.

The topic for the meeting has not
been announced, but it is hoped that
the students will continue to show the
splendid interest they have manifested
at the past discussions.

Social Fraternities

PI K. A’S HOLD
ELECTIONS:

The following men were chosen to head
the local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha for the
new year: Lynn Huie, president; Dallas
Wehner, vice-president; Buck Kirkland,
treasurer; Horace Smallridge, corresponding
secretary. Buck Kirkland was elected Pan-
Hellenic representative.

At the meeting of the chapter on April
27, Eb Willson was initiated into the fra-
ternity.

PHI DELT’S
SPONSOR DANCE:

The Phi Delta Theta fraternity sponsored
a dance at the American Legion Hut in
Mooresville during the past week-end. Music
for the occasion was furnished by the Da-
vidson Orchestra, Many guests were pres-
ent and delicious refreshments were served.

The following guests were present: Misses
Burtha Burch, Eleanor Killick, Mildred
Brown, Carolyn Hodge, Dot Baker, Biddie
Maddox, Mary Payne, and Evelyn Spurrier,
of Charlotte; Dot Miller, Dosty Blackmon,
Jean Twittey, and Dora Dunlap, of Rock
Hill, S. C.; Elizabeth Rhett, Agnes Brown,
and Mary Withers, of Davidson; Adelaide
Bogart, Kannapolis; Margaret Klime, Salis-
bury, and Louise Melchor, Mooresville.

kK. A’S PLAN
RIVER HOUSE PARTY

Members of the Kappa Alpha fraternity
are making plans for a house party this
coming week-end at the lodge of Mr. David-
son'on the Catawba River.

S A. E’S TO CELEBRATE
50TH ANNIVERSARY:

The local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
is making plans for a dinner-dance to be
given at the Charlotte Country Club on Sat-
urday night, May 6th. This is to celebrate
the 50th anniversary of the founding of the

North Carolina Theta Chapter. Alumni and
faculty members have been invited. There
is to be no set program, but there will
probably be a few remarks by the alumni
brothers.

Dr. Lafferty Is Speaker
For Physics Fraternity

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, head of the X-ray
department of the Charlotte Sanatorium, was
the speaker at a recent meeting of Sigma
Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, which
was held in Chambers Auditorium last
Thursday evening at 8:00 p. m.

Dr. Lafferty dealt in his talk with physics
in medicine, taking up the application of
mechanics, sound, heat, and electricity and
illustrating the X-ray in medicine. He ac-
tually demonstrated by forescopic screen and
portable X-ray machine the motion of the
heart and lungs.

The speaker is a graduate of Davidson
High School, Navidson College, and attend-
ed the North Carolina Medical School, which
was located here at that time. He was here
when the first X-ray picture in America was
taken. Three students broke into the physics
laboratory one Sunday night and took these
X-ray pictures, which are still to be seen
in the college library,

It with this experience as a backs
ground that Dr. Lafferty entered the X-ray
field. He has done much work in the med-
ical field, especially in X-ray work, and im-
portant pioneer work in the X-ray treat-
ment of cancer.

Dr. Lafferty still speaks the language and
thinks in the sam@ terms as the college man
of today. Davidson students often go to see
him, and. he is always glad to show them his
X-ray machines and explain their manipula-
tion.

was

Dr. Lafferty is very much interested in
Scout work in Charlotte, and in the
social work of college men. His talk was
greatly enjoyed by his student audience. |

This meeting was one of the few
meetings of Sigma Pi Sigma held during
the year, and was gratifying in its results.

also

open

ANNUAL Y. M. C. A. SPRING
SERVICES ARE CONCLUDED

(Continued from page 1)

ther. Repentance is the willingness of the
individual to.lose his littleness in the vast-
ness of God. In the story of the Prodigal
Son, the wandering boy received no pardon
of his father until he, of his own accord
and volition, betook himself to his home
where forgiveness awaited him. In contrast
to this we have the stories of the lost coin
and lost sheep, where the loser in each case
had to go out and search the lost before
full restoration could be made, Repentance,
then, is a matter of self-will, and not ¢x-
ternal force. For the musical part of the
service, Mrs, Pritchett and Mrs. Vowles sang
“Nailed to the Cross.”

The last of the addresses, “From Gypsy
Tent to Pulpit,” dealt largely with the cus-
toms of the Gypsy people, some of the the-
ories as to the origin of the language and
the people, and the history of the conver-
sion of his family. The Gypsy was a distinct
race even before the Anglo-Saxon left the
plains of India. Because of the absolute
individuality of the language in respect t6
the great families of languages, etymologists
have long been at loss as to the place occu-
pied by the Gypsy tongue. However, a
great many have been inclined to link the
Gypsy with the early Jewish tribes—the lost
tribes, perhaps. In support of this belief,
Mr. Smith stated that over eighty-five per
cent of all Gypsy names were Bible names,
especially common being that of Dan.

Although they have no Bibles, in fact, no
Written language of any sort, Gypsies have
always observed a Sabbath as a day of rest
and quiet. No horse trading, fortune tell-
ing, or much as gathering fire-
wood is engaged in on this day. The repu-
tation of the Gypsy has been greatly im-
paired by travelling bands of tramps pos-
ing as Gypsies, and though Mr. Smith ad-
mitted that the Gypsy has questionable hab-
its, he was able to quote W: T. Stead, gréat
English writer, as saying: “The Gypsy ‘in
Europe has no moral peer.’ No Gypsy has

even so

ever been hailed in a court for murder, or
prostitution, nor has it ever been recorded
that a Gypsy committed suicide.

The youth is taught to honor and protect
womanhood and adheres more closely to this
principle than does the British or American
youth. Of his faults, the worst that can be
laid to his door are profanity, drinking and
petty pilfery. Yet the Gypsy has had no
one to tell him of the great love of Christ
that can banish such habits as these, and
is hardly to blame for his condition. His is,
indeed, the only race of people to which no
attempt whatever has been made to send
missionaries, except such as those that have
been sent by the Smith family.

The “Gypsy Smiths” travelled the south-
ern part of England and it chanced that
after the death of Mr. Smith’s grandmother,
the family wagon was en route to London.
Fresh from the grief of the loss of his wife,
the old Gypsy tried to drown his sorrow at
a bar, where a man took pity on him» Hav-
ing no Bible, the man read to him from
“Pilgrim’s Progress,” then asked him if he
cared to attend a prayer service. Mr. Smith’s
father, then a boy of some sixteen years,
heard=hiswfather’s- assent to the invitation
and followed him there. From this begin-
ning, the family, then the tribe was won
over, and now the family is represented in
thirteen pulpits over America and England.

In closing, Mr. Smith said that in his
mind’s eye he could see two great paint-
ings, one, a Gypsy tent, with five worthless
thieves, with no God, no Christ, no schools;
the other, a large hall filled with Davidson
boys listening to a descendant from that
tent. Underneath, Mr. Smith would inscribe
these words, “What God hath wrought!”

SENIOR SMOKER

Edward McNair, of Atlanta, Ga., was se-
lected permanent class secretary, and plans
for a commencement program were dis-
cussed at a senior smoker held last week.

Youth is ever in revolt, age alone brings
resignation.—James Huneker.

; omething to
jool just Lay tag SOMCL/UMG,

ay

back.’ ”

© 1933, Licckrr & Myers Tosacco Co,

@

A friend of CHESTERFIELD writes us of

a salesman who had “something to say”:

“I dropped into a little tobacco shop,
and when I asked for a pack of Chest-
erfields the man smiled and told me I
was the seventh customer without a
break to ask for Chesterfields. ‘Smoker :
after smoker,’ he, said, ‘tells me that
Chesterfields click ...I sell five times
as many Chesterfields as I did a while

Yes, there’s something to say about Chest-
erfields and it takes just six words to say

it—‘They’re mild and yet they. satisfy.”

Wherever you buy
Chesterfieids,you get
them just as fresh as
if you came by our
factory door

BQ

